UNDWRARARGL NOWRAPAR OUND WRAPAROUND VWRAPAY 
Austerity is another name for elegance. 
Using only energy mined from local wind and 
sunlight and manure is a thin budget. You’ve 
got your collectors, digestors, and windchargers 
working, and you’ve chopped down the power 
lines from town. Your next trick is surviving 
that way — another whole set of inter-related 
design problems. 
Only three research groups | know of have the 
skilled experience and originality to have made 
much headway (I'd like to hear of others). The 
New Alchemy 
Institute — a double community 
of biologists and engineers at Cape Cod and 
Santa Barbara. Integrated Living Systems — a 
mountain laboratory of designers in fact 
operating in energy isolation. Zomeworks — a 
company of inventors and communicators in 
Albuquerque. 
—SB 
The New Alchemists 
The New Alchemy Institute is a small 
international organization for research and 
education on behalf of man and the planet, 
seeking solutions that can be used by individuals 
or small groups who are trying to create a 
greener and kinder world. 
To this end we look to the power of the wind 
and the sun to provide us with energy that is 
non-polluting, less than finite and immune to 
embargo. We couple our windmills, domes and 
solar heaters to biological systems where animal 
protein in the form of fish is grown in sun- 
warmed ponds. The pond water fertilizes the 
gardens and fields where food crops are grown. 
The gardens are worked organically, following 
as closely as possible a policy of stewardship, 
returning to the earth in care and compost as 
much as is taken. 
The Institute has a membership program 
available to anyone with an interest in our 
goals. Annual membership is $25.00, and 
members receive publications of the Institute, 
including the ‘Journal’. The New Alchemy 
Institute, Box 432, Woods Hole, Massachusetts 
02543. 
THE ARK: A SOLAR-HEATED AND WIND- 
POWERED GREENHOUSE AND AQUA- 
CULTURE COMPLEX ADAPTED TO 
NORTHERN CLIMATES. 
The complex includes a sunken greenhouse, an 
attached aquaculture pond, a solar water heater 
and a diversity of light and heat conservation 
and distribution components. !t is an integrated, 
self-regulating system requiring the sun, power 
for water circulation, waste materials and labor 
to sustain its productivity. The electricity to 
drive the circulation pump will ultimately be 
provided by a 6 kilowatt windmill. The heat 
storage — climate regulation component is a 
13,500 gallon aquaculture pond. Solar heat is 
trapped directly by the covered pond and by 
water circulating through a solar heater. The 
attached greenhouse is built below the frost line 
and derives its heat from the earth, direct 
sunlight and from the warmed pond water 
Passing through pipes in the growing beds 
within the structure. Details are provided in the 
second “Journal of The New Alchemists’’. 
The intensive fish farming component is 
comparable to those already pioneered by the 
Institute. Several crops of Tilapia fish will be 
cultured throughout the warm months on foods 
raised within the structure. A single crop of 
trout and perch will be raised during the cooler 
seasons. It is our hope that the aquaculture 
component will be productive enough to 
underwrite construction and maintenance costs 
and that the greenhouse component will provide 
abundant marketable vegetables and greens. 
New Alchemist covered 
ponds & gardens at Cape 
108 
Cod (from the windmill). 
Re-designing Both Ends of a Use 
A SAILWING WINDMILL FOR PUMPING 
WATER 
Our sailwing windmill at New Alchemy on Cape 
Cod is beautiful to watch as it turns in gentle 
breezes, pumping water from a lake some 15 feet 
below to a storage tank that feeds a series of 
tiny aquaculture ponds. In 10 mph breezes it is 
capable of pumping 6,000 gallons daily. The 
mill cost only a few hundred dollars to construct, 
and is described in the first ‘Journal of The New 
Alchemists’’. 
The highest potential of windmills like this will 
eventually be realized in arid lands. They will 
pump ground and stored water to fish culture 
ponds, and from the ponds to fields and 
orchards to irrigate and fertilize tree and food 
crops that in turn will nurture small communities. 
If you want to observe the wind at play and to 
move water around, build one. 
FISH PISS: THE LINKING OF AQUACULTURE 
AND THE RAISING OF VEGETABLE CROPS 
In 1970 we performed an interesting laboratory 
experiment in watering lettuce and parsley 
plants with enriched water from a densely 
populated aquarium. A series of plants was 
grown in flower pots. Half of them were watered 
with tap water and half with water from a 55 
gallon tank containing 8 small catfish. The 
plants watered from the aquarium grew faster 
and were visibly larger than those which 
received tap water. 
This year the experiment was repeated outdoors 
on a larger scale. Leaf lettuce, beets and 
zucchinis (leaf crop, root crop and vine crop) 
were the vegetables used. Half of the plants 
received tap water while the others received 
water from one of our aquaculture ponds 
containing about 700 tilapia and a heavy algae 
bloom. Beets and zucchinis did not respond to 
the enriched water, but the lettuce was a 
different story. In three successive experimental 
trials involving 69 to 98 lettuce plants, the 
weight of edible lettuce produced in the pond 
water plots exceeded that from the tap water 
plots by 44.3%, 67.9% and 121.6%. 
We conclude that vegetable growers having 
access to fish pond water would be well repaid 
for the effort of applying such water to shallow 
rooted leaf crop vegetables, particularly those 
which, like lettuce, favor abundant moisture 
and high levels of fertilization. 
There are other benefits from connecting pond 
and garden cycles. We found that the tilapia 
fish avidly consume vegetable crop wastes, 
especially carrot tops and a variety of weeds 
from the gardens. The various links create a 
Productive cycle: plants for the fish and man, 
fertilizer and moisture from the fish ponds for 
the plants, and the steward gently orchestrating 
the whole. 
