Ne anh th ‘olar Rerainere which: ant 
is 
n ih 
sompetitive, (2) is systemically 
(a 
endent parts interfaced into an 
em 
established under specific 
‘ 
as minimal environmental 
1as Minimal energy investment in 
materials, (5) is a bold step ahead of 
er, (7) has a long life time and will remain 
| for many years, (8) is useful for export 
ray and housing problem is a planetary 
yr the first time, it is possible to begin to meet 
4 
th 
Pe 
ioned hardware qualifications i in 
and 
m minimum costs are major design parameters, 
epi such home has evidenced that it is possible to 
build housing which is cost competitive with 
Because of the !LS Laboratory's reach for an 
ideal, we have learned from the self imposed 
constraints of using only the sun and the wind 
as sources of energy that refrigeration, cooking 
‘ _ techniques, lighting standards, toilets, etc., must 
___ and can be redesigned to maximize their energy 
efficiency. Much of this upgraded hardware 
could be used to lower the overall energy demand 
when installed in conventional housing. 
The ILS Prototype | system uses 20% of the 
electrical energy and 10% of the thermal energy 
‘required in an average house. It is important to 
mention that all of the electricity, hot water and 
space heating are provided by the sun and the 
~ 
wind with no back up. During the past winter, 
_ the site of the ILS Prototype | experienced 119 
inches of snow and more than a week at a time 
of no sun or wind. Temperatures were down to 
_ 
ten degrees below zero Fahrenheit. The energy 
__ systems of the Prototype functioned normally. 
A prototype like 1LS | would have cost industry 
about $500,000.00. The capital outlay for 
Prototype | was about $12,000.00 and two man: 
years. Our monetary efficiency demands much 
research and development at reduced costs. 
ILS Labs is a laboratory. It in itself is an 
experiment. We are not a business but a team 
of ten people who design, construct, and live in 
systems which can ultimately be brought into 
society by other impact groups. Our goal is to 
build a larger laboratory with some two hundred 
scientists, engineers, designers, lawyers, doctors, 
artists, anthropologists, communications people 
_and the like, working together in a new way 
with a sense of urgency to provide new tools, 
models and methodologies to grapple with the 
_ 
broad problems of energy, people and habitat. 
_ We have the hardware to build a very 
inexpensive physical plant for the laboratory 
in a very short period of time. The ILS system 
hardware allows for the first time energy 
_ autonomous communities to be built. Many 
national laboratories have been created to 
“respond to urgent national problems. It is time 
to build a laboratory which responds to the 
_ urgent problems of energy and appeals in its 
physical form and objectives to kindle the 
imagination of the ILS staff as well as the 
_ American public. 
Thank you, 
| 
Zomeworks 
Besides designing and building solar and 
structure systems, Zomeworks does occasional 
publishing and conference organizing — more 
inventive, if possible, than its devices. The most 
recent conference (Halloween, 1972) brought 
together a zoo of old-timers and outlaws in the 
alternative energy spectrum. Here are excerpts 
from the proceedings (Life Support Technics, 
$1.50 from Biotechnic Press, Box 260917, 
Albuquerque, N.M. 87125). 
—SB 
Some of the speakers who clearly explained 
their theories and methods found that ... those 
who gathered to listen to their talks were not 
serious enough — did not pay attention to what 
they were saying or demonstrating, that they 
didn’t ask the right kinds of questions — that 
whatever it was that brought them to the same 
meeting was at best accidental, but was perhaps 
a lie imbedded in society that brings together 
opposites, that surrounds prophets not with 
those who would catch fire with their message, 
but rather groups that drown and trample them. 
But in a deceitful way — nodding their heads — 
“Yeah man — right on — you got it!”’ ... 
Euclid’s parallel axiom was found to be 
independent of the other axioms of 
Euclidean geometry. You can negate it and 
still find models in which everything built from 
the other axioms thrives. This same kind of 
study is needed in our technology.... Technology 
quickly links itself into the world where you 
can't bite it without biting yourself. Every 
invention and method that facilitates the 
production of anything we use is taken in, 
achieving immunity from questioning. 
Fortunately we have history. There is proof 
that life existed before the transistor, TV or 
the internal combustion engine. 
Steve Baer 
Actually in the Depression period, before the 
Second World War, there was a movement 
called the Decentralist-Distributist Movement in 
America in which a great many people were 
discussing the very things you're discussing now 
— not in the same language — but the need for 
reaffirmation of the way of life adapted to the 
land and not tied in heavily to urban 
concentration. Go back to the 1840's — there 
was a strong period of idealistic community 
building, trying to recapture these same roots. 
As a matter of fact, these ideas are part of the 
original American ideals — the whole 
Jeffersonian concept of the kind of society 
that we were going to build here — small, land- 
based, largely self-governing, self-provisioning 
communities, which were tied together ina 
federation. | think all these attempts are an 
attempt to recapture the original American 
dream. 
Peter Van Dresser 
One speaker noted that Libre operated a “‘total 
life support system” for thirty two people on 
50 kilowatts per month -- a considerable 
improvement, he felt, over Bob Reines’ figure 
of 10 kilowatts per day for the average one- 
family home. This saving was achieved in part 
by reducing demands for power — learning to 
get by with less — but the residents of Libre 
didn’t consider this a hardship: “We're not in 
any way uncomfortable; we're aoe in luxury, 
absolute luxury.’’ 
WIND ENERGY 
If you're going to put together a wind generating 
system from new components, you'd better 
plan to spend around $2500. That's a lot of 
money, but if you want your own non-polluting 
alternative to Four Corners power plant, you 
have to pay the piper. A lot of that $2500 goes 
for storage, since the wind is a variable power 
source. If you could do without storage, or if 
you can find used components, or surplus 
components, or make your own components, 
you can save money. You can also save money 
if you are willing to compromise your life style 
and do without some of the uses of electricity 
found in the typical American home. The initial 
expense is high, but you won’t have any more 
electric bills. Remember, the price of electricity 
is going to keep going up. 
If you are going to build a wind generating 
system, you should plan to spend about 10 
hours studying for every hour of construction. 
A lot of this stuff gets very technical, but don’t 
let that scare you off. Just jump right in and 
learn the answers. The three biggest resources 
you have are people, the phone book, and 
libraries. There are people walking around who 
have the answers to a lot of the questions and 
problems you will run up against. There’s a 
university in Albuquerque with an electrical 
engineering department. Talk to people who 
sell wire. Call the manufacturer of batteries. If 
somebody tells you you need an external shunt 
(for example), go to the library and find out 
what that is. 
Bob Reines 
109 
