t 
i UND WRAPAROUNDINRAFAROUNDIWRAPAR OUND 
106 
The Whole Earth 
Publishing Empire 
/s not. But the scattering of resources after the 
Last Catalog did /ead to an odd and numerous 
cousinhood of publications. Some are negligible; 
some are excellent, as follows. 
The first to appear was a quarterly called 
PLACE, now well established and distributed 
by Random House. Conceived by Whole Earth 
editor J.D. Smith, run by Whole Earth staffers 
Dudley & Barbara DeZonia, PLACE jis a National 
Geographic of the heart, vernacular journalism, 
avenue for much of the best writing and creative 
photography around. $8/yr. from PLACE, 
Walnut Grove, California 95690. 
While Place got the Catalog type fonts, Ken 
Kesey bought our Polaroid copy camera, light 
tables, and layout gear to start a periodical 
named (during a poker game) SPIT IN THE 
OCEAN. The first issue on the theme “‘O/d in 
the Streets” is just out, including the beginning 
of a new novel by Kesey. The issue is $1 by 
mail ($2 in bookstores), and 7-issue subscriptions 
are $5 from: SITO, Box 477, Rt. 8, Pleasant 
Hill, Oregon, 97407. 
Richard Raymond, head of Portola Institute, 
which was home for the Whole Earth Catalog, 
has started a “journal of right livelihood and 
caring-based economics”, the BRIARPATCH 
REVIEW, edited by Whole Earthers Gurney 
Norman (“Divine Right’s Trip’) and Robb 
Gilmer. Each issue costs $1 from 558 Santa 
Cruz Ave., Menlo Park, California 94025. 
Money from the Last Catalog — over $7 million 
— went into a foundation called POINT, which 
proceeded to fund local goodworks. The 
President of POINT, an original named Mike 
Phillips, also handles money for Glide 
Foundation and used to vice-president a bank. 
His book on POINT and “free money”, THE 
SEVEN LAWS OF MONEY, is just completed. 
£3.95 from Random House, 457 Hahn Rd., 
Westminster, Md. 21157. or W.E.T.S. or T. for L. 
The Laws: 
1. Do It! Money Will Come When You Are 
Doing The Right Thing. 
Il. Money Has Its Own Rules: Records, 
Budgets, Saving, Borrowing. 
111. Money Is A Dream: A Fantasy As 
Alluring As The Pied Piper. 
IV. Money Is A Nightmare: In Jail, Robbery, 
Fear of Poverty. 
V. You Can Never Really Give Money Away. 
V1. You Can Never Really Receive Money 
As A Gift. 
Vil. There Are Worlds Without Money. 
Paul Krassner, editor of The Realist, who co-: 
edited “’The Last Supplement to the Whole 
Earth Catalog’ with Ken Kesey, is writing 
a satire titled Tongue Fu, which will appear 
in The COEVOLUTION Quarterly and the 
Whole Earth Epilog. 
—SB 
Credits 
Whole Earth Epilog preview in Harper’s 
“Wraparound”: 
Editor 
Office & research 
Stewart Brand 
Diana Shugart 
Research 
Pam Cokeley 
Managing Editor, 
Andrew Fluegelman 
photography 
Layout 
Steamboat 
Typesetting 
Joe Bacon 
The CQ title face 
Arthur Okamura 
Host Editor 
Tony Jones 
We're grateful to Harper's for the considerable 
freedom we've been given in a careful maga- 
zine. Guest editorship is always a kind of tres- 
pass, hopefully worth it. In Catalog tradition 
we should mention some numbers --- Harper's 
paid POINT approximately $4200 for prepa- 
ration and production of this ‘Wraparound’; 
circulation is about 350,000. 
-SB 
orp 
Bev ie® 
Hello place. 
If you're traveling chickens are hard to keep. 
But chickens are fantastic things to get to know. 
Constant and easy personalities to see and be 
with. They are productive folks as well. It’s a 
gas when your rooster thinks you are trying to 
make it with his hen and he comes rushing at 
you with spurs and feathers everywhere. And 
watching an egg get laid is a hot steaming rush. 
Larry Maurer 
Fullerton, California 
DRINKING. 
If you drink to get stoned, or to participate in 
the general metamorphic trends, but you don’t 
like to get sick or hung over, just blasted and 
temporarily truthful and happy, then drink 
straight hard liquor and beer chasers. Mixed 
drinks will kill you with twitches and nervous 
conversation. Wine is healthy and natural, like 
vanilla, and not so sudden as whiskey, but when 
wine is used as a food and fuel, it burns out your 
memory and gives you the runnies. Don’t worry 
about all the cigarettes you smoke when you 
drink, because the alcohol is harder on your 
body than the smoke. Try smoking only when 
you are drinking (science). If you don’t like 
what you are drinking, then don’t drink it 
(philosophy). Buy someone a drink (economics). 
Pass the bottle around (politics). 
J.D. 
e 
Whole Earth office and staff, Sausalito, California. 
Idaho letter 
dear epilog 
alladin lamps are kerosene gobbling, 
temperamental, luxury lamps they use just 
about twice the kerosene per time unit as the 
— 
standard flat-wicked glass bowl kerosene lamp. 
alladin mantles travel no better than coleman 
mantles. there is a bright side: for close work, 
like embroidering tarot cards on shirt pockets, 
the alladin gives about twice the light of the 
— 
flat wicker, if folks bought everything but the 
font, or fuel container, how much would they 
save? would it make it worthwhile to use a 
pound prince albert can, for instance? 
the handyman jack, or mountain jack as they 
call them around here, are good lifters. we 
broke the shear pin on one lifting the downhill 
side of a 16 by 20 log cabin. a little stronger 
shear pin and a four foot cheater, and the house 
came pu. used one as a cider press. in the 
middle of the winter. by notching out a power 
pole to jack up againse and putting the butt 
down into a round plunger rigged into a worn 
out three gallon canner. we pulled out the 
powerpole and got apple toothpaste out of the 
holes drilled in the canner. 
the hohner marine band harmonica. if you start 
by blowing, you stay in the key of the harmonica. 
if you start with a suck, you cross the harp, and 
come in backwards to the song, blues. 
i think the keseys make the gallon plastic jug 
that you buy milk in around here. the jugs get 
used for more than milk. we haul drinking 
water in them. cut in half and upside down you 
get a funnel, with the bottom half used for 
rabbit water. with the handle left on and the 
quarterface opposide the handle cut out, its 
a water dipper. with the handle left on and the 
quarter face below it cut out you can catch 
crankcase drainings. i saw a pole lamp in mccall 
with the top halves being used as shades, 
snowmobilers are strapping gas in them. larry 
usee the flat sides and cut out the alphabet for 
the kids to trace around. 
grey duct tape: arno, michigan city, indiana, 
46360, 2 inches by sity yars, grey supertape, 
but not as super as what the government uses 
to steamfit its battleships. seems like a citizen 
should be able to buy anything that the 
government can. 
well, thats all, 
love, 
jd 
Bicycle Gardens 
The interstate highway system would make an 
ideal living transportation system. Already 
right in place is a fine foundation for a 
continuous string of houses stretching from 
Maine to San diego, from Florida to Seattle; 
think of it, next door neighbors from coast to 
coast, with rural breathing space out the front 
and back doors. Two lanes would do fine as 
foundation, the other two lanes would serve 
more than admirably as bicycle paths, 
especially with the extensive grading done 
which levels out hills and finds passes in the 
mountains. The people living in the string of 
houses could provide services for the pedal 
pushing passers-by, things like bed and 
breakfast, bagel bakers, pickle packers, bike 
fixers, story-tellers, saddle menders and 
makers, book depots, tea houses, restaurants, 
sauna baths, ping-pong and pool parlors and 
pizza palaces. The right of way could be 
cultivated — bicycle gardens. 
Merce 
P.S. The Energy Crisis is a tourniquet ona 
hard-on. 
An Extremely Short Political 
Editorial 
Impeach. 
—SB —DS —PC —AF —S —JB 
