in off the top of a hill, climb onta the 
comes quickly. It’s important to learn to 
your ability and never fly in stronger 
ds or tougher terrain than you can handle. 
1e sport is new, invented but three years ago, 
the one brand-new book about it — a 
Hang Gliding 
_ Dan Poynter 
1973; 205pp. 
$4. 95 postpaid 
from: 
Hang Gliding 
48-G Walker St. 
North Quincy, Ma. 02171 
or W.E.T.S. or T. for L. 
\ 
_ As for manufacturers of the Rogallo Wing 
(which unrigs and transports with exceptional 
ease) here are the top ones, each of them 
offering kits and readymades. The one | know 
best is MANTA, which has an adjustable 
control bar for sitting or prone flight. Kits are 
_ $300-400, finished wings $400-600, depending 
_ on size and features. Manta runs a good school 
_ jn the San Francisco Bay Area. BENNETT, 
Reaaewhat expensive, has the largest sales of any 
_ 
THE CANNULA ABORTION 
Pan by Stephanie Mills 
ue Abortion 1 is the commonest method of birth 
oe ‘control in the world. It has also been the most 
_ dangerous, whether performed by physicians in 
hospitals with conventional instruments or 
i) 
induced by back country midwives with sticks. 
ei _ Women have risked and lost their lives 
_ terminating unwanted pregnancies since time 
- 
began. 
my recently accepted technique may change 
all that. 
| 
‘The: accepted medical practice for abortion, 
_ 
dilation and curettage, subjects women to 
hemorrhage, and death. It involves dilation of 
the cervix by steel rods of increasing size. 
This procedure is quite painful, and may 
tat equire general anaesthesia, which increases the 
nels to life. The cervix is “stabilized” by being 
ed witha steel curette. It is incredibly bad 
n which attempts to make the uterus 
© the instruments 
and procedure they 
stra ion. ) Attached to any vacuum- 
us it efigets a suction abortion 
4 ind soar with the hawks. It’s hazardous _ 
manufacturer. 
EIPPER builds a good wing and 
runs a school in the Los Angeles area. 
ULTRALIGHT PRODUCTS has the best 
hardware and kits. SEAGULL jis a different 
wing, broader in the beam, with a curved 
leading edge: they also have a school. 
Manta Products 
1647 East 14 St. 
Oakland, Ca. 94606 
Bill Bennett Delta Kites 
Box 483 
Van Nuys, Ca. 91408 
Eipper-Formance, Inc. 
Box 246 
Lomita, Ca. 90717 
Dot 
An Eipper-Formance drawing of the flight sequence. 
virtually nil. Suction and gentle scraping of the 
uterus with the cannula seem to result in far 
less bleeding after the abortion. 
The cannula method is fast and (potentially) 
cheap enough to be used when a pregnancy is 
suspected, but cannot yet be confirmed by a 
test. In such very early abortions, the smallest 
available cannula (4mm) can be used, and no 
dilation of the cervix is necessary. In abortions 
requiring the use of a larger bore cannula, 
smaller cannulae may be used as dilators. 
Karman has devised a syringe for use with the 
cannula which incorporates a couple of 
features for maintaining a fail safe vacuum. 
(However, one Dr. consulted about the kit felt 
that the syringe is pretty flimsy.) A kit consisting 
of a syringe, speculum and a number of cannulae 
of various sizes will be distributed by several 
international groups. A program is being set 
up to train paramedics. in its use. It can 
be expected that the device will eventually 
filter back to midwives and may, in time save 
millions of women’s lives. 
The no-touch technique for using the cannula 
minimizes the risk of infection. A sterile, 
cannula is inserted directly into the uterus 
without coming into contact with the walls of 
the vagina (which are obviously not sterile). 
The cannula and syringe are prescription items, 
and are not for unskilled use. That doesn’t mean 
that it takes a doctor to perform a cannula 
abortion, but it does mean that anyone 
attempting one had better have some training. 
Further information on this technique is 
Manta staffer Eileen Preville launches in the California Coast Range. 
‘Ultralight Products 
137 Oregon St. 
El Segundo, Ca. 90245 
Seagull Aircraft 
1554 Fifth St. 
Santa Monica, Ca. 90401 
Since the sport is evolving so quickly, it’s worth 
getting the periodical Ground Skimmer ($5/yr. 
a 
monthly, Box 66306, Los Angeles, Ca. 90066). 
The present state of hang gliding reminds me of 
the early days of LSD. 
—SB 
available from the National Women’s Health 
Coalition, 222 E. 35th St., New York, New 
York 10016. 
Stephanie Mills is a writer and director of 
Planned Parenthood who suffered an early 
fame in 1969 with a valedictory address to her 
graduating class at Mills College which announced 
that she, personally, was going to have no babies. 
The Energy Crisis after all, and the Food Crisis 
to come, are really Customer Crises. Too many 
users. “Cannula” is pronounced CAN-ewla. 
SO) 
Macrae 
