Getting Work with Whole Earth 
All we do is evaluate and write and organize and 
publish— 70% evaluate, 10% write, 10% organize, 
and 10% publish. 
Evaluate-and-write you can do from where you 
live. If you think something would be good for 
the WHOLE EARTH EPILOG, suggest it. If you 
know it’s good, review it. You get $10 and credit 
for each review and first-suggestion used. 
If you show considerable skill in evaluating and 
writing about a particular subject (or number of 
subjects), you may become the research czar of 
that domain, and we send research material to you 
and pay you by the hour. (Until a better czar 
comes along.) Sometimes a research czar takes 
over the editorship of a part of the CATALOG, as 
Lloyd Kahn did with the “Shelter” section. 
Then there’s getting stuff in The CoEvolution 
Quarterly. $70 per short letter (more for more). 
$10 per item sent that we reprint (article, paper, 
etc.) $50-100 per original article, paper, photo 
spread, drawings, etc. If you demonstrate a whole 
working network of unusual and relevant people 
and goodies, you might get a shot at guest-editing 
an issue of The CQ— $5/hr and POWER. 
Occasionally The CQ is edited and produced 
somewhere at large in the world— we’ve done 
two in various deserts. 
We’re also hiring— gradually— essential functionaries 
such as layout people (40 hr weeks during 
productions; complete vacation between). We need 
a professional indexer to prepare the comprehensive 
index for EPILOG and CATALOG. A photo 
technician for the copy camera and photostat 
machine. A meticulous keeper of the update 
department. Pay runs $3.50—4.50/hr depending 
on experience and time working here. 
We hire for office work strictly on a combination 
of blazing competence and gentle congeniality— 
low vibe. We’re too busy to supervise each other. 
Decisions tend to be individual or at most two- 
person. Employees keep their own hours and set 
their own vacations. 
If you’re thinking about an office job here, send 
some of your work first (to Box 428, Sausalito 
CA 94965), then arrange for an interview. We’re 
hiring slowly. 
Reviewing for Whole Earth Epilog 
Give the information you would like to get. This 
should include what the item is good for, how it 
compares with others, and some clue of how 
competent you are to judge. If you’re passionate 
about the subject, be passionately informative. 
And succinct. 
Avoid comments like “This is a good book.” 
Prove it... 
With this remarkable book, a shareable investment in 
equipment, and a few days of work, you can fill your 
life with a celebration of bells. No author, not even 
Enzian, has a wider experience of Tibetan Bell Casting 
than Slothrop, and none have prepared a text so 
comprehensive. His diagrams alone suffice to make 
bell-casting understandable to the beginner. The bonus 
of clear prose and exotic tales make this one of the 
great adventure books of craft. After comparing both 
the French and Russian techniques — long considered 
the height of bell-casting — I’m forced to agree with 
~ 
Slothrop that the Tibetans have the most direct 
method of ringing the Inner Ear of the mind. Bell- 
casting materials are not expensive. The author 
evaluates the various suppliers of North America. 
Do not rave about an item which is merely good or 
only the best of a bad jot. Hlso dcn’t waste time 
picking nits with the author unless the matter is 
something the reader has to know about. If the 
item is bad, don’t review it. Tell us why it’s bad 
and what's better. 
Write as you would in a letter to some specific 
person you respect and like. As they used to say 
at Life, “Never underestimate the reader’s 
intelligence. Never overestimate the information he 
has to go on.” 
Resist showing off or making funny. Also resist 
impersonal gray business prose. YOUR FUNCTION 
IS TO PERSONALLY INTRODUCE THE ITEM 
AND THE READER TO EACH OTHER AND GET 
OUT OF THE WAY. 
The savvy reader will make most of his judgements 
on samples from the item — quotes, illustrations, 
etc. Select good ones. Mark them as you read 
through the item — bits you didn’t know before, 
bits that contain the essence of the item, bits 
that pass on a whole useable idea to the reader. 
A perfect selection of excerpts — six or ten short 
ones — should gut the item, make reading it 
unnecessary. 
Study some reviews and excerptings in The Last 
Whole Earth Catalog.... Do better. 
