go 
DWRAPAROUNDINRAPAROUND IRE 
CoEVOLUTION Quctily 
Supplement to the Whole Earth Catalog 
“COEVOLUTION” 
The term was introduced in 1965 by Paul 
Ehrlich and Peter Raven in their study of the 
predator-prey relationship of caterpillars and 
plants. They found that the eaters and the 
eaten progressively evolved in close response 
to each other — coevolved. (Some plants 
developed defensive alkaloid poisons. Some 
caterpillars acquired a taste for alkaloids. The 
plants diversified wildly. The caterpillars 
diversified with them. What evolved really 
was the relationship, stably dynamic, 
unpredictable and sure.) 
It seems that all evolution is coevolution. The 
beauty of the term is what it adds to the 
concepts of ecology. Language such as 
“preserving the ecology’’ suggests something 
quite perfect — static, knowable, oriented 
backward, unwelcoming to human 
foolishness...unreal. Ecology is whole system 
alright, but coevolution is whole system in 
TIME. The health of it is forward — a 
systemic self-education which feeds on 
constant imperfection. We coevolving 
watchers and meddlers are not left out 
of it. 
Ecology maintains. Coevolution learns. 
A COEVOLUTIONARY GAME: 
Who’s Got the Cardiac Glycoside? 
For chemica! defense against predators, plants 
of the Milkweed family learned to synthesize 
a potent poison, the cardiac glycosides. The 
Monarch butterfly caterpillar learned to relish 
this alkaloid. The adult Monarch, full of 
cardiac glycosides, tasted terrible to his 
predators, the birds. The nice-tasting Viceroy 
butterfly learned to mimic the orange-and- 
black appearance of the Monarch so birds 
would leave him alone too. The birds, 
presumably, learned to distinguish more 
acutely between the real and bogus Monarchs. 
And the Milkweeds, meanwhile, learned to 
vary the combinations of alkaloids in 
individual plants so that caterpillars adapted 
to one plant could not feed on another. So 
long as everyone gets some victory and 
some defeat, the game never stops. 
The CO 
We always used to have the 
most fun with the 
“Supplement” to the Whole 
Earth Catalog. We would 
bandy about half-baked 
research, personal 
enthusiasms, new layout 
ideas, correspondence from 
readers, ideological 
arguments, news and 
speculation, burps and 
farts and occasional song. 
We plan to do that again. 
In addition The 
COEVOLUTION Quarterly 
will focus on what has been 
called The Energy Crisis, 
our deepening encounter 
with, sure enough, the 
Limits To Growth. We’l/ 
work mainly on these areas: 
1)Short-term Forecast- 
ing — secondary shortages, 
threatened jobs, converging 
effects, etc; 
2) Home Remedies — 
from personal to County- 
scale; 
3) Understanding 
Wholesome — reprinting and 
initiating coevolutionary 
papers in cybernetics, 
ecology/economics, religion, 
self-anthropology, language, 
and whatnot. 
Plus ongoing access-to-tools. 
The Quarterly wi// appear 
approximately in March, 
June, September, and 
December. On editorial 
matters write to: The CQ, 
Box 428, Sausalito, Ca. 
94965. For subscriptions 
($6/yr) write: The CQ, 558 
Santa Cruz, Menlo Park, 
Ca. 94025. 
=o 
Review of 
C. J. Jung’s 
Septem Sermones ad Mortuos 
by Gregory Bateson 
This tiny book is for me the greatest achievement 
of Jung's life — the turning point ina long 
battle. He clearly recognises in Memories, Dreams, 
Reflections that the days (in 1916) in which it 
was written were the beginning of all his later 
insights. 
At that time he was coming out of a long period 
of slow recovery from the influence of Freud 
and from the break with Freud. It was the 
moment for a new (or return to a very old) 
natural history of Man-God-Cosmos. 
The book is difficult to read. It is (of course) a 
sort of poetry, and therefore almost impossible 
to be reviewed and analysed in prose. And Jung’s 
views clearly changed as he wrote, even in the 
three or four days of the writing. He was in a 
state of transition. 
Man is a gateway, through which from the 
outer world of gods, daemons, and souls ye 
[the Dead]shall pass into the inner world; out 
of the greater into the smaller world. Small 
and transitory is man...At immeasurable 
distance standeth one single Star in the 
zenith. 
The book then both is a progress from macrocosm 
to microcosm and is a description of the 
landscape at various stages of that progress. 
It is not clear (does not matter) who is the 
novice and who the initiator in this strange 
catechism. Not only Jung but also the Dead are 
in transition. They came ‘‘back from Jerusalem, 
where they found not what they sought.”’ 
From his state of transition, Jung sees three 
concepts to which he gives the Gnostic names: 
Pleroma, Creatura and Abraxas. There is also — 
man. 
Abraxas is approximately Shiva, the ultimate 
Creator-Destroyer. The most terrible and most 
beautiful of all the gods that man contains 
within his microcosmic self and that in turn is 
contained in the macrocosm. Within Abraxas, 
the more familiar figures (Helios, the Sun; and 
the Devil, darkness) are subsumed. But it is 
Abraxas that gets the poetry. 
It is splendid as a lion in the instant he 
striketh down his victim. 
It is beautiful as a day in Spring. 
To look upon it, is blindness. 
To know it, is sickness. 
To worship it, is death. 
To fear it, is wisdom. 
To resist it not, is redemption. 
All this is within creaturg, the realm where 
differences, distinctions, and ideas hold sway. 
The ground out of which creatura looms as 
figure (in the language of Gestalt theory) is 
pleroma — the totally unconceived and 
unstructured realm about which nothing can be 
said or thought because to say anything is to 
create distinction. Call it ‘“void’’ or “‘fulness’’, 
it is still older and deeper than that first 
distinction by which creatura comes into 
recognition and therefore being. 
The book is exasperating, profound and 
beautiful. 
Jung’s “Seven Sermons to the Dead”’ was 
privately printed in 1925 and circulated with no 
mention of its author. /t is not to be found in 
the Collected Works. Recent editions of 
Memories, Dreams, Reflections ($2.95, Random 
House) carry it as Appendix V. The translation 
is by Cary F. Baynes, translator of Wilhelm’s 
| Ching. 
Gregory Bateson, anthropologist, cybernetician, 
biologist, originated the Double Bind theory of 
schizophrenia. 
ae 
best is 
