ople fn oe me Sonate xeroxes 
f the same article, which they did with this 
er that Howard Odum prepared in 1973 for 
ott is Sthe most insightful view of the energy 
_ future | have read. Also the harshest. We hope 
to reprint later the entire paper to include Odum’s 
elaboration following each of the twenty points. 
His recent book Environment, Power and 
- Society ($5.95, Wiley) presents his elegant 
_ notation system for energy cycle accounting 
and the background of his remarks here. 
—SB 
. 
1. The true value of energy to society is the net 
energy, which is that after the energy costs of 
getting and concentrating that energy are 
subtracted... 
2. Worldwide inflation is driven in part by the 
increasing fraction of our fossil fuels that have 
to be used in getting more fossil and other 
fuels... 
3. Many calculations of energy reserves which 
are supposed to offer years of supply are as 
gross energy rather than net energy and thus may 
be of much shorter duration than often stated... 
4. Societies compete for economic survival by 
Lotka’s principle (3), which says that systems 
win and dominate that maximize their useful 
total power from all sources and flexibly 
distribute this power toward needs affecting 
survival... 
5. During times when there are opportunities to 
expand one’s power inflows, the survival premium 
Says Stephanie Mills, 
otic ‘s principle is on rapid growth even 
: though there may be waste.... 
6. During times when energy flows have been 
tapped and there are no new sources, Lotka’s 
principle requires that those systems win that do 
not attempt fruitless growth but instead use all 
available energies in long-staying, high diversity, 
steady state works... 
7. High quality of life for humans and equitable 
economic distribution are more closely 
approximated in steady state than in growth 
period..... 
8. The successfully competing economy must use 
its net output of richer quality energy flows to 
subsidize the poorer quality energy flow so that 
the total power is maximized... 
9. Energy sources which are now marginal, being 
supported by hidden subsidies based on fossil 
fuel, become less economic when the hidden 
subsidy is removed... 
10. Increasing energy efficiency with new 
technology is not an energy solution, since most 
technological innovations are really diversions 
of cheap energy into hidden subsidies in the form 
of fancy, energy-expensive structures... 
11, Even in urban areas more than half 
of the 
useful work on which our society is based comes 
from the natural flows of sun, wind, waters, 
waves, etc. that act through the broad areas of 
seas and landscapes without money payment. An 
economy, to compete and survive, must maximize 
its use of these energies, not destroying their 
enormous free subsidies. The necessity of 
environmental inputs is often not realized until 
they are displaced... 
12. Environmental technology which duplicates 
the work available from the ecological sector is 
an economic handicap.... 
13. Solar energy is very dilute and the inherent 
energy cost of concentrating solar energy into 
form for human use has already been maximized 
by forests and food producing plants. Without 
energy subsidy there is no yield from the sun 
possible beyond the familiar yields from forestry 
and agriculture.... 
14. Energy is measured by calories, btu’s, 
kilowatt hours, and other intraconvertible units, 
but energy has a scale of quality which is not 
indicated by these measures. The ability to do 
work for man depends on the energy quality and 
quantity, and this is measureable by the amount 
of energy of a lower quality grade required to 
develop the higher grade. The scale of energy 
goes from dilute sunlight up to plant matter to 
coal, from coal to oil to electricity and up to the 
high quality efforts of computer and human 
information processing... 
15. Nuclear energy is now mainly subsidized with 
fossil fuels and barely yields net energy... 
16. Substantial energy storages are required for 
stability of an economy against fluctuations of 
economies, or of natural causes, and of military 
threats... 
17. The total tendency for net favorable balance 
of payments of a country relative to others 
depends on the relative net energy of that country 
including its natural and fuel-based energies minus 
its wastes and nonproductive energy uSés.... 
18. During periods of expanding energy 
availabilities, many kinds of growth-priming 
activities may favor economic vitality and the 
economy’s ability to compete. Institutions, 
customs, and economic policies aid by 
accelerating energy consumption in an 
autocatalytic way.... 
19. During periods when expansion of energy 
sources is not possible, then the many high 
density and growth promoting policies and 
structures become an energy liability because 
their high energy cost is no longer accelerating 
energy yield... 
20. Systems in nature are known that shift from 
fast growth to steady state gradually with 
programmatic substitution, but other instances 
are known in which the shift is marked by total 
crash and destruction of the growth system 
before the emergence of the succeeding steady 
state regime... 
—Howard T. Odum 
