JUNO RAPAROUNGWRAPAROUNDWARAPAROUND Rr 
110 
“\ | 
ps 
The 
Big 
Strange 
Picture 
(Strange?) 
Estranged. While our growth curves shoot the 
moon our sense of normal has rotated 90% 
from horizontal to vertical. The parasite has 
lost all sense of its host. 
(You rave beautifully.) 
Maybe the parasite never did sense its host, 
though I’ve not met a native culture that didn’t 
know and celebrate its place. | was in a dream 
with Gregory Bateson the other night, playing 
my usual Boswell to his Samuel Johnson. 
Walking down a hallway | asked him what was 
the difference between a growing system and a 
mature one. “Measured medium,” he said, and 
departed. The meaning | puzzled out of it (in 
the dream) was that a growing system measures 
only itself and eats to grow, whereas a mature 
system measures itself and its medium and eats 
to balance. 
(Checked that with Bateson?) 
I’m afraid to. 
(Have you checked any of your Apocalyptic 
Enthusiasm with anything besides other 
Apocalyptic Enthusiasts?) 
Of course not. It’s all second-hand or 
speculation. My culture goes to great effort to 
insulate me from any experience of privation. 
The price of gas and food is up, as if reflecting 
a coming scarcity instead of just the cost of 
delivery. That’s the first thing besides talk to 
reach me. The reason | believe that the 
Apocalypse is not merely a self-fulfilling 
prophecy is those absolute quantities on the 
old Ball of oil, coal, arable land, and standing 
room. “You can’t,” said David Crosby, “‘bullshit 
the ocean.” 
(Nuclear power might, no set-up, really might 
invalidate your whole beef.) 
Energy: Water: Food 
The demand for capital by the energy industry 
is pushing interest rates way up. The petroleum 
producers figure they will need 1,300 billion 
dollars for capital investment between now and 
1985 to meet demand worldwide. That amount 
is bigger than the total US GNP today and to 
achieve it the petroleum industry wild need to 
grow at a yearly rate of 18% for the next 
fifteen years. Either consumers will pay industry 
or the consumers will be taxed by government 
for same. 
An aside on all this is the effect on food prices. 
| fear that an attempt to double current energy 
consumption will vastly increase the drain on 
scarce water supplies. If this happens, water 
intensive crops will suffer hugely and prices 
will rocket. Water intensive energy sources are: 
shale oi! and Wyoming coal and nuclear power. 
Am looking for figures on the water demand of 
energy sources and water demand of foods. Will 
send some conclusions soon. 
Jim Harding 
House Energy Improvements 
The best rundown we've seen on what you can 
do to your home to reduce heat loss (winter) 
or improve cooling (summer) by intelligent 
design and simple improvements: “‘Living With 
the Energy Crisis’, 25 cents postpaid from 
Small Homes Council — Building Research 
Council, University of Illinois, One E. St. Mary’s 
Rd., Champaign, I/linois 61820. 
And a dome really might not leak. But they 
always do. A single “perfect” technological skin 
doesn’t make it — one pinhole and you're wet. 
There’s no redundancy, no margin. Nuclear 
technology requires vast perfection — elaborate 
containers and transport for a vicious brew of 
radiation, zero-defect reactors, 
a huge managerial 
reich, sabotage-proof administration. It’s a 
Satanic price. 
(No doubt you have a better program.) 
Yeah. A steady-state energy-economy coupled 
with a growth information-economy. 
(Beg pardon?) 
Figure that the growth information-economy 
goes on anyway — call it cultural evolution or 
Fuller’s ‘doing more with less’ or McLuhan’s 
implosion — it’s doing fine. But the energy- 
economy is approaching a bend-or-bust point. 
Scribbled: 
1Shd 
ZS 
sf 
(What’s that upward angle after the bend?) 
That’s points for sophistication and for being 
wise about bending. 
(You got it all figured out, huh.) 
Not likely. Nor figure that anyone can figure it 
out — not if it’s healthy. Human consciousness 
is too narrow to contain the big balance. We got 
power galore but as Ehrlich says, Power is not 
control. 
(What is?) 
Variant parallel systems. Local self-interest kept 
local by local competition and whole-system 
level-seeking — not homogenization, please. 
(Does that mean anything?) 
/t means some respect and trust in controls 
besides our own... a lot of wholesome 
inefficiency ... and renewed knowledge that 
participation in the sacred requires playing fair. 
(By whose rules?) 
Right. 
(Rite?) 
—SB 
Seeds too? 
Shortages you won't believe are going to exist 
this next year again, both flower and vegetable 
seeds, but more particularly in vegetable seeds. 
For instance, something as ridiculous as Purple 
Top White Globe Turnip is going to be almost 
unobtainable. Gardeners will be well advised 
to order early this year, preferably in January 
and February to try to beat the crunch. 
It’s sort of unfortunate that this year when there 
is going to be such a surge in enthusiasm for 
gardening, that we’re encountering the many 
shortages that we see. In vegetable seed alone, 
many varieties are in extremely short supply, 
and while this may not be immediately felt on 
the seed rack or in the catalog, eventually it is 
going to be felt somewhere. Many of the green 
beans are short, the lima beans are short, beets 
are short, some of the carrots are short, some 
of the cucumbers are short, some of the lettuce 
is short, all of the onions are short, parsley is 
short, parsnips are short, peas are short, sugar 
peas are almost non-existent, some of the 
pumpkins are short, some of the radishes are 
short, several varieties of spinach are short, many 
of the squash varieties including both summer 
and winter are short, some varieties of tomato 
are short, turnips are almost non-existent, and 
a few varieties of watermelon are snort. 
Why all these shortages?We don’t know. There 
are a lot of different reasons, including bad 
growing conditions last spring, crops which 
simply did not make seed as we had anticipated, 
shortages in South Africa (where a lot of green 
beans are grown), shortages in Taiwan, 
shortages all over Europe from bad crops, etc. 
Sincerely, 
W. Atlee Burpee Co. 
Gerald F. Burke, 
Vice President 
Nuclear Briefing, Nov. ’73 
The only way nuclear power would ever be 
conceivably safe would be if you had a society 
of perfect humans totally robotized where no 
materials ever failed, no directions were ever 
followed poorly, where no sabotage ever 
existed, where no acts of God ever occurred 
where there were no psychotics, no angry people, 
a society that no one has ever remotely 
visualized. And that by the way, that requirement 
comes from a leading nuclear expert, Dr. Alvin 
Weinberg. He said, we just want to make a 
Faustian bargain with society — you give us a 
perfectly tranquil society and we'll give you 
nuclear power. The absurdity of a society of 
that sort is so self-evident that we long ago 
should have stopped the nonsense of nuclear 
fission energy. 
Dr. John Gofman 
Basic Energy Unit 
_ Suppose we determined what is the basic energy 
requirement per year per American family. Call 
that quantity_x. Every family could get x juice 
for a set resonable price. But 2x would cost four 
times as much, 3x nine times, etc. Or, let all 
energy buying above x amount be at whatever 
Price an unsubsidized open market arrives at. 
This idea is Huey Johnson’s (head of Trust for 
Public Land), based on Henry George’s land 
tax theory — no tax on minimum family farm 
land, multiple taxes on more than that unit. 
—SB 
e
ee
eT 
ee
