= 
—— 
The Straight Skinny 
Reply to a letter in the March issue in the ‘‘Other People’s Mail”’ 
section, p. 22. 
P.G. asks “Who's got the Straight Skinny?” concerning shipping out 
on merchant ships. 
Firstly — get your passport and have your occupation listed as Mer- 
chant sailor (or seaman). 
Second — to ship out on U.S. vessels you need a Coast Guard docu- 
ment which is a plastic |.D. pass with your photo and a “Z"’ number. 
You can only obtain this pass from Coast Guard Merchant Marine 
Documentation offices in all major seaports. 
Look in the phone book 
under U.S. Government. 
Third — here is the hangup! The Coast Guard won't issue new docu- 
ments to anyone unless they can prove that they have a job. Accept- 
able proof usually consists of a letter written by the personnel manager 
of the company who will hire you. Most companies won't hire you 
without you already having the required document. 
| include maritime 
unions in with companies as they, these days, are trying to limit union 
membership. 
Fourth — your chances of shipping out on U.S. vessels are quite slim. 
Many people were hired to man the ships that ran to Vietnam and 
the Far East hauling war or war-related cargoes during the last five 
years. Now they are reducing the war effort and many sailors will be 
out of work as the government lays up ships. 
Fifth — to hire out on U.S. vessels your best bet is to pester the hell 
out of the maritime unions — 
Sailors Union of the Pacific — Seattle, Portland, S.F., L.A. 
(Wilmington) 
Sea Farers International Union — East Coast & Gulf Ports 
National Maritime Union — East Coast & Gulf Ports. 
Also try tug boat companies — they hire a lot of men and pay very 
well. Your best bet is to play a “straight” roll. Most personnel 
managers and Union dispatchers are straight and anti-anyone who 
does not also appear straight. Having got the job and the required 
C.G. documents and entered into the seafaring life you wilt find that 
sailors don’t give a damn what you look like, or how you act. 
Sixth and last — shipping out on foreign vessels is a matter of chance. 
Contact the consuls of each maritime nation — Norway, Denmark, 
Sweden, Italy, Germany, England, Panama, Liberia, Greece — in each 
major port city of the U.S. leaving your name, address, and phone 
number. 
Also go to a seaport and go aboard foreign ships and ask for a job. 
Also contact Steamship agents (phone book again) and drop a card to 
the operations manager with name and phone number. 
7 
: 
Kevin Mercer 
Seattle, WA 
s ‘ J 
, Movin’ On Gee” 
Europe, Hitch-hiking, etc. 
Concerning girls hitch-hiking (advice from my next door neighbor): 
Two girls are safe, usually. Carry white-pepper, look the guy over 
before you jump in. Always outnumber your host(s). 
If things 
don't look OK, don’t get in. (Ask him ‘Where are you going?” 
“Sorry, we're not going that way, thank you.” is a good way out.) 
Don't prick-tease. Unfortunately, many American girls have no 
conscious idea how their actions look to Europeans. When he says 
“you're avery sweet girl’’, reply ‘‘please let me out at the-next gas 
station.” 
On the other hand, the chamber of horrors above is not the average 
situation. Hitch-hiking is the standard method of travelling for stu- 
dents. 
|f you don’t have a companion, you can find one quite easily 
at youth hostels. 
Two girls alone are not safe in Turkey, or points East. Take alonga 
big man. 
Find out what the ‘country plate’’ on the back of the car 
means. 
Get on the road early if you’re going far. Long ferries are good to 
hitch on: walk around and ask people if you can come along. But 
when going from Copenhagen to Sweden, take the train (or lift) to 
Helsingor and lift on the Danish side. Sweden is wall-to-wall thumbs. 
Gas station maps, especially BP, are as good as the expensive ones, 
except possibly for the wilder parts of Eastern Europe. They cost 
about 30¢. Buy them before you enter the country so you know 
where you are. Eastern European countries usually have very good 
free maps available at tourist bureaus. City maps are also usually 
cheaply available. 
Linguistics for travellers: 
Learn the local words for ‘’thank you"’ (which can be used anywhere 
for any purpose). 
It'll bring smiles, but no laughter. 
It'll make you 
a person too: 
it’s unbelievable how a waiter lights up after struggling 
in three or four half-understood languages. ‘‘Good”’, ‘‘no’’ or ‘not’, 
“sandwich” and ‘‘beer”’ are also very useful. 
While in Roumania for a Linguistics conference, | came down with 
dysentary, was put quickly and competently into a hospital and had 
to communicate with the (Sorbonne-trained) doctor in rusty college 
French. Things got difficult when he asked about selle (excrement) 
and | heard sel (salt) — the former not being important enough for 
French 101. Finally the nurse said ‘‘kaka?’’, | said ‘‘merde?”’, the 
doctor turned bright red, and everything got straightened out. Moral: 
carry some sort of multi-lingual phrase book with a lot of medical 
terms. 
| wish | knew of one. 
Things to take: 
Carry candy and some food when lifting: bread, Cheese, sausage, and 
fruit are recommended, 
Families usually stop and picnic. 
Things not to take: 
See Europe straight. 
!f you have Middle-East Stamps in your passport, 
long hair, etc., you shouldn't be surprised if you are inspected pretty 
thoroughly, to the great annoyance of your driver. 
(Swedish customs 
are known to take Volkswagens completely apart.) The coast road 
from Istanbul to Salonika should be avoided as there's a customs in- 
spector who loves to bust people. 
| heard this from a Britisher who 
got the full treatment (he was innocent, besides). 
Books: 
$5.00 a day is... 
well, try to live on this budget in America and 
you'll see how possible it really is. Lets Go was good in ‘66. Join 
the youth hostel movement. 
Every city of any size in continental 
Europe has one. The European student travel services organize train 
and plane connections all over Europe. Buy their guide in Europe, 
not in the USA. 
When trouble comes: 
Smile, look stupid, don’t argue. (Read The Naked Ape.) Contact 
the American Embassy and don’t admit to understanding anything 
but English. | didn’t take that advice in Bulgaria and got screwed by 
their state auto-insurance scheme. 
Costs: 
Driving your own car: 
about $5.00 per day average running cost for 
asmall car (Fiat 850). Hitch-hiking, sleeping in hostels and camping 
places, | wouldn't budget less than $400 a month. 
Martin Minow 
Bromma, Sweden 
BEFORE DISNEYLAND 
In Manchester, Tennessee there is something called the Old 
_ 
Stone Fort State Park which people passing through Tennes- 
see might be interested in. The Park is right by the big duck 
and the little duck rivers and there are at least seven water- 
falls within a mile. The state owns the land but they have 
not improved it at all and so do not charge anything for 
people to stay there. Some people might like to stop by be- 
fore it becomes a disneyland. 
Otto R. Salassi 
Tullahoma, Tennessee 
See the World... 
We've got fine vacation news for suburban guerrillas, or for that mat- 
ter, anybody up for a trip. Make Peace Corps your local travel agency 
at no expense to you. 
If you want some time to think, adequate salary, easy and fun job, 
free medical care, free dental care, many profusely illustrated publi- 
cations, and other gratuities, take advantage of the free offer. The 
U.S. government can be penetrated “‘like cheese-cloth’’. 
It’s full of 
holes to breathe through. 
Chances of acceptance are high, especially for people who can make 
things grow. 
|f you can’t make things grow you probably qualify as 
an English teacher. The more under-developed the country, the more 
loosely defined the job. !f you want to make a big deal out of what 
you find yourself doing you can, but if you’re not that type then let 
the Peace Corps be your reality trip. You might end up with a Maha- 
rishi in your own neighborhood. 
Training usually amounts to a 6—10 week commune. Our program 
trained on a ranch near Rocky Mountain National Park — an instant 
plastic community with coop general store, nightly dancing, feasting 
together, mountain climbing, even our own mythology., 
We also 
learned a foreign language. The same kind of language course we got 
would cost a couple thou at Berlitz. Other training programs have 
taken place in Mexico, Canada, the Virgin Islands, and all over Cali- 
fornia. The trand in Peace Corps training programs today is to choose 
a salubrious place Where volunteers will feel a sense of oneness. 
Peace Corps-employs thousands of volunteers in countries all over the 
world — Morocco, Afghanistan, Nepal, Micronisia, India, Peru, Sierra 
Leone, and other places you might like to know. 
It’s usually no prob- 
lem enjoying the better aspects of the natives and retaining what you 
are at the same time. 
If you don’t dig the natives you can work along 
with them anyway. 
: 
Peace Corps volunteers get two days of paid vacation for every month 
of service. That means 48 days accumulated vacation for two years 
of service. During vacation you get nine dollars a day just to subsist 
on. One volunteer visited five countries his first year of service — 
Spain, Tunisia, Sicily, Italy, and Greece, spending no less than two 
weeks in any one country. A skillful volunteer could easily beat that. 
Counting local holidays, Christmas vacation, summer vacation, spring 
vacation, and unexpected surprises like International Moon Day or a 
sudden coup, a volunteer could easily push five months in days-off 
during a single year. 
Despite recession in the states Peace Corps salaries have been going up 
recently. 
In less than a year’s time our salaries have increased by 33%. 
With our excess subsistance allowance we've bought a lot of hand- 
made rugs and blankets worth thousands in the states if you need re- 
tirement money. 
The necessary information is available through Peace Corps, Washing- 
ton. When you read Peace Corps material, use your imagination. Don't 
be turned off by jargon like “volunteer spirit’’ and ‘‘effectiveness’’. 
In most countries lack of communications make bureaucracy virtually 
impossible. You are necessarily left alone. Improvise. Take a stereo 
and plenty of books you've been wanting to read. 
If the Peace Corps 
charters an airplane to fly your program to its site, there is practically 
no limit on baggage weight. 
Regardless of when you leave the Peace Corps you get 75 dollars for 
every month of service abroad or about 1500 dollars after two years, 
plus free air fare back to your suburban camp. The Peace Corps will 
even find you another job. 
And the whole two years is a free-trial period. |f for any reason you 
con't like what you're doing, Peace Corps will pay your way home at 
any time. 
Write Peace Corps in Washington and ask for a hand-book. Ask for 
special information on the country of your choice. 
Inquire about 
training programs and fields open to volunteers. Everything is free of 
charge. The whole trip costs you nothing. 
Quotations from Peace Corps literature: 
The change in attitude many Volunteers have after the initial novelty 
of living abroad has worn off is sometimes striking. The fire of en- 
thusiasm they brought with them turns to ashes not long after they 
encounter the first misunderstanding, the first reluctance to change 
traditions based on the heritage of generations. Instead of attempting 
to affect the attitudes around them, however slightly, they begin in 
some respects to adopt these attitudes. 
Going from the ordered routine of training to an unstructured job 
overseas has sometimes been compared to running off the end of a 
pier. Suddenly there is no solid footing underneath; often there is 
not a staff member or an instructor in sight, and it’s up to you to 
sink or swim. 
j 
The work of a volunteer is largely a matter of individual definition. 
Emergencies: The best advice here is to use your common sense. 
Neither volunteers nor staff members may pilot air-craft during their 
— 
service with the Peace Corps. 
, 
Mobius Polymers Unltd. 
ip 
‘Tunis, Tunisia 
a 
Any of you veteran volunteers care to comment? 
