Yogurt 
Here it is! The definitive yogurt recipe, courtesy of Con- 
sumers Cooperative of Berkeley, Inc. No special equipment, 
no watching the pot for hours & fussing about keeping it a 
special temperature — except for a few minutes every couple 
of hours for 
6-8 hours. The recipe first appeared in the Co-Op 
News about 2 years ago, and | have been using it ever since 
with delicious success: 
4-6 
pint jars (1 use tall thin jars, or almost 
Equipment: 
anything) 
1 large mixing bowl 
1 heavy pot to hold the jars (I use an aluminum 
bucket from a camping kit) 
Candy thermometer 
1- 8 oz. container plain yogurt 
Ingredients: 
3 
1 large can evaporated milk (NOT condensed) 
2 cups non-fat powdered milk 
5 cups almost hot water 
Instructions: 
Thoroughly blend yogurt & evaporated milk 
in bowl. 
Thoroughly blend powdered milk and water 
and add to bowl. 
Mix all well and pour mixture into jars using 
aladle. (I use a cup.) 
Place jars in pot, add hot water to near top of 
jars and place candy thermometer in water be- 
tween jars. 
Place pot on stove & cook until temperature 
registers 125 degrees. Turn off. Do this three 
or four times at 2-hour intervals. Caution: do 
not leave stove while heat is on; higher temper- 
ature can ruin yogurt batch. (Don’t panic if 
you forget, though. Take jars out of water & 
pot off heat until thermometer registers 125. 
Return jars to water.) 
Leave pot on stove, over pilot if you like, until 
morning. Taste. For a more tart yogurt, leave 
on stove a few hours longer. 
Remove jars from water, cover and chill in re- 
frigerator. 
After making this one batch with store-bought, you can use 
this yogurt as starter. This first recipe, which makes about a 
quart or two, costs about 55¢, thereafter about 25¢, depend- 
ing on how much you have to pay for the milk. The recipe 
was headlined as ‘‘foolproof” when it appeared first in the 
News, and | believe it, since I’ve only managed to ruin it once 
in 2 years of careless cooking — by allowing the temperature 
to climb to 150 degrees all four times | heated it! 
V. Manchester 
Fortuna, CA 
Paul Goldstein showed us the best yogurt-maker we’ve seen 
yet. /t’s just a quart mason jar with lid, with one-inch foam 
rubber wrapped around it, and circles of foam cut out to 
cover the top and bottom of the jar. You just get one quart 
of your yogurt mixture to the right temperature (he recom- 
mends 110° F,), put it in the jar, wrap it up, and put it some- 
place quiet for about eight hours (like inside an un-lit oven 
overnight). 
Sourdough Cookery 
You can get Sourdough Starter from: 
Sourdough Jack's Kitchen 
603 Tennessee Street 
__ 
San Francisco, CA 94107 
The Cookery Kit — includes cookbook and a package of 
starter. $2.30 postpaid. 
Gift Package — includes cookbook, starter, and a sourdough 
crock. $4.80 postpaid. 
The Fish Protein Story 
“Instant Protein” the first FDA-approved food grade fish 
protein concentrate to appear on the market will be available 
to household consumers in mid-May. 
Alpine Geophysical Associates, Inc. manufacturers of Instant 
Protein say they plan to market the product initially in New 
York and New Jersey supermarkets, and branch out into New 
England later. 
The light colored powder, packaged in half-ounce envelopes, 
eight to a package, has only a faint aroma of fresh fish, its 
makers say. Blended with many foods, it adds no fish flavor, 
but fortifies them with animal protein at a low cost per serv- 
ing._ 
Consumer testing of Instant Protein has shown that it blends 
successfully with flour products, such as cakes, breads, rolls 
and cookies, and with rice products. Mixed with these mate- 
rials at about the ten per cent level, it produces almost no 
change in basic cooking characterisitcs. In most cases, all that 
is noticeable is a slightly intensified color. 
The powder can also be added to a basic spaghetti sauce, its 
makers say, to produce meat-type sauce stock that provides 
about half a person’s daily animal protein requirement for 
around six cents. 
from: 
New England Maritime Resources 
Information Program 
University of Rhode Island 
Narragansett, R.1. 02882 
sent by: 
John McClaughry 
Lyndonville, VT 
In answer to Don Symons — concerning high protein fish 
flour: 
It was being made by Alpine Assoc. (name may be 
incorrect) in New Bedford, Mass. under contract to U.S. 
Gov't. They couldn’t get enough fish (the fish are scarce, 
the weather was awful, etc.) so they only produced about 
3% of what their contract specified. Also, if | remember 
correctly, they had problems with sterilization and making 
the stuff palatable. 
Mrs. Everett Jones 
Mystic, Conn. 
Sew OS. 
Snail Safari 
Gardeners who have recently converted to gardening without 
poisons probably haven't figured out yet what to do about the 
snails. Why not eat them? Instructions for hunting, fattening, 
cleaning and cooking snails are available from Sunset: 
“Gourmet treat . 
. 
. escargots”’ 
Sunset Magazine, May 1961, pages 190-192 
Lane Publishing 
Menlo Park, California 
We prepared a herd or 72 and therefore found a 5 gallon can 
discarded by a restaurant a suitable cage. We were not enthu- 
siastic about putting 72 snails back in their shells, only to 
remove them again at the dinner table. We served them over 
rice. 
Incidentally, our motivation for snail hunting was not gourmet 
taste, but economy. They’re free food! We found ours in oth- 
er people's gardens in the Berkeley flatlands. In addition, we 
found wild green onions, mushrooms, mustard greens, mint 
and nasturtium leaves in the same neighborhood. 
Mary Fowler 
Oakland, CA 
Halibut Fillets The Easy Way 
Long as we’re on maritime things, here’s a trick | learned up here in 
the frozen north where halibut are plentiful. A crusty ol’ guy ina 
cannery showed me the easy way to fillet halibut, that delicacy of 
the sea similar to a flounder so plentiful in many oceans. 
Anyway, get a knife with a long, thin, sharp, flexible blade about nine 
inches or so in length. Fillet the halibut as soon as possible after it is 
dead to preserve the flavor so delicate it's otherwise lost. Get a piece 
of plywood (or something resembling same) about 2-3 feet square, 
and cover it with a piece of gunnysack or some sandpaper so the con- 
founded fish will stay in one place. They are slippery. 
With the cunning of a surgeon, begin on either side of the fish by cut- 
ting the meat to the bone lengthwise along the natural curvature of 
the spine (the fish usually has markings that follow the spine along 
the length). Next just ahead of the tailfin, cut to the bone again cross- 
wise. Now, with your finger, poke about the head of the fish until you 
feel where the softer gut of the fish is on one side of the fish, and cut 
down to the bone just inside the meat part. Do the same on the oth- 
er side of the same side of the fish (i.e., on the “top” of the head. This 
may sound silly, but the fish has eyes that have moved all over its body 
in the course of evolution). Some of the best and thickest part of the 
meat is on the upper, or “top” side of the head, so use care. 
Now, starting from the tail end, work your knife into the lengthwise- 
cut so that you strip the meat away from the bone toward the head; 
work your knife in short, easy strokes until it lies nearly flat on top 
of the fish. This does two things at the same time; one, you will waste 
absolutely no meat, and two, the bones of the fish will not be“eft on 
the fillet. The entire bone structure of the fish will be left intact if 
you are careful. As you work your knife, slice outward towards the 
edge of the fish, cutting the skin free at the edge. Working towards 
the head, the smaller bones will begin to raise upward in the area 
near the gills and near the larger spine; there is also some cartilage in 
this area. 
Do the same with the other side, until you have two neat fillets sep- 
arate from the fish. Do exactly the same on the reverse white under- 
side of the fish; you will end up with four neat fillets. 
If you are 
careful, you'll not have spilled a drop of blood or guts; the sac con- 
taining the guts should remain intact. The underside fillets will usu- 
ally be a bit thinner than the others. Now discard the remaining skele- 
ton, guts and head over the side for the sharks to choke on. Some peo- 
ple like the halibut ““cheeks’’; soft, delicate and very small pieces of 
meat on the outer part of the gills. Personally, | don’t think they are 
worth the effort. 
Generally, I've found that the remaining fillets will be about 60-70% 
of the gross weight of the fish. The size of the fish seems to affect the 
taste not at all. | can detect no noticeable difference in taste in a fillet 
of a small fish or a large fish. The larger fish fillets may be of a slightly 
grainier (stringier?) texture. The larger fish fillets of a really big fish 
can be cooked nearly like a roast. 
Getting back to filleting; you should now have four fillets with skin on 
one side (unless you have a very quick cat). This is where the real art 
come in, and the most difficult part to master. 
In your left hand, take 
a pair of pliers (visegrips are the best) and grab hold of the smaller (tail) 
end of a fillet so that the skin side of the fillet is down (next to the 
board). Double over the skin if necessary to get a good firm grip with 
the pliers in your left hand. 
Now, with the knife at about a 30-40° angle to the board (away from 
your body! safety first!), literally 
rip the skin slowly from the meat, 
preferably in one or two easy strokes. This takes some muscle. 
It 
helps if the handle of the knife is pushed forward slightly ahead of 
the tip. There should be a very distinct and definite “ripping” sound 
as you do this. 
It takes some practice to do it really right, but you 
should master it in a few fish’s time. 
(?). The skin of a halibut is very 
tough, like leather. 
UEFT OFF IN 
THIS DIRECTION 
If you've done a fair job, you will have four nice-sized fillets, Clean 
the blood off them (and you), if any, by holding them under cold 
Tunning water for a minute or two. Wrap them in baggies or other 
plastic, wrap that up in freezer paper, and freeze them. They will keep 
for months without loss of flavor if you can get them in the freezer as 
soon as possible to preserve the delicate flavor. 
Usually, the fillets are so large that they will have to be cut in two or 
more pieces for cooking (just to get tham in pot or pan). They are 
surprisingly filling, and make great fishsticks, fishballs. Basted with 
lemon juice, poached and served with a good:Holiandaise sauce piping 
hot, a halibut fillet is a true delight. 
Gary D. Christenson 
*USC&GSS TAINIER (MSS-?1) 
FPO Seattle 
