Wind and Batteries 
| would like to comment on a comment on p 39 January (I think) p 7 
‘March Re: small power plants for electricity generation. 
The plants (wind) I’ve seen in operation all used banks of storage bet- 
teries. These batteries of the common lead acid type used in cars will 
last several years more than usual if taken care of (feed rain water and 
keep charged up), Direct current is of course produced and some sort 
of inverter would have to be used to get AC out of the system. | recall 
a rancher saying the company who sold him his system guaranteed the 
batteries 10 years; lots of technica! data is available on batteries since 
telephone exchanges use them for emergency power. 
The use of batteries with either water wheel or wind generation systems 
allows large surge power output; with only a few watts charging on the 
average thousands of watts can be drawn intermittently. 
Car alternators can be used for either water wheel or wind installations; 
| recall seeing that VITA was working on such. They also had a design 
for a wind type which had a propeller made by cutting a 55 gallon 
drum along its axis and then offsetting the halves so that it became a 
two cup anemometer like rotor (1 don’t know how successful this was 
but suspect they may have had starting up problems when the wind 
died down all the way). When you use a car alternator you can use 
the regulator to keep the battery charged correctly too. The maximum 
output of a car alternator is in the 300-600 watt range. 
RLTATIG Ay 
AXL 
<< sai 
WIND 
HALVES 
On large wind plants flywheels have been used to store energy between 
gusts; to make the whole thing efficient several transmissions must be 
used and it’s pretty complicated. 
| think the aesthetics and ecology make gasoline fired power plants 
unattractive. 
Rural electric lines not only cost every month but often 
there is a line building charge on the order of a dollar or more per foot. 
A single auto battery will store enough to run a 40 watt flourescent 
lamp 10 hours; or a small radio transmitter etc. Don’t expect wind 
fired plants to run the electric heaters'and other garbage. Washing 
machines are made'with gasoline engines; refrigerators are made that 
run on kerosene. Solar electric cells are still to expensive (unless you 
happen to run into a heap NASA threw out!). We should all learn 
to live with less power use. Even if it is superficially cheap. 
By the way on propane engine conversions | found a dandy technical 
book a few months ago; a little dated but lots of good info for the 
initiate: 
“Butane Propane Power Manual”’ Principles of LP Gas 
Carburetion, by Carl Abell, William Clark, ed; Chilton 
Publishing Co., Chesnut & 56th St., Philadelphia, Pa., 
1962, $5.00, 300 pp. 
This book covers planning of engine conversions and specific available 
equipment in considerable detail for those who dig mechanics. 
I'd be happy to try help with small generator problems but | don’t 
know anything much about propane conversions! 
Less power to ya. 
John K. Green 
Boulder, Colorado 
P.S. Windmills still used alot for water pumping. 
—_— o—= 
BURLAP RAP 
The Burlap Store — This outfit makes and sells a large spec- 
trum of burlap colors; solids and tweeds. Their free ‘‘fact 
sheet’’ suggests uses for this now-popular fabric | had not 
thought of. For example, burlap may be used as a wall cover- 
ing, especially suited to cover rough walls, even walls with 
cracks and holes! 
It can be pasted on like wallpaper and re- 
moved later, ef desired, by simply pulling it off the wall. 
They even sell the special adhesive recommended for use with 
burlap. Custom-made burlap window drapes are available as 
well. 
Most colors come as wide as 52” and the cost per yard is 99¢. 
An even better buy is their remnants (1 yard or less) priced 
at 1/3 off — no choice of color however. A decorator swatch- 
folder is available for 25¢ (?) that contains nearly 40 colors. 
Service on two orders | have sent them was quite speedy. 
Bon Bazar 
149 Waverly Place 
New York, New York 10014) 
[Suggested and reviewed by Gerard Ruch] 
General Electric Silicone Seal 
This stuff has to be about the neatest sealing material around. 
Caulks boats or bath tubs, waxes proof glue, you name it. I've 
even used it successfully to seal up oil leaks on an engine. 
Christopher E. Prael 
~ 
3 
: 
_ Portola Valley, CA 
DS 
~ Toolsand Techniques iF; 
Aruban Windchargers, plus. . 
. 
Some comments about wind electric generators. 
Aruba, in the heart 
of tradewind-country, is a natural for these devices. Until the island 
was completely electrified about a dozen years ago, these windcharg- 
ers were in evidence across the island. The tradewinds blow steadily 
here, at 10 to 15 knots, for at least a continuous 48 to 50 weeks of 
the year. The devices used here looked very much like your Dyna 
unit on p. 39 of the Fall ‘69 catalog, but were manufactured in Chi- 
cago and were either trade-marked or manufactured by Windpower. 
They were available in either 6 or 12 v. DC models, had about a six- 
foot diameter main blade, and sold for the equivalent of $70, which 
included freight, duty and the exorbitant markup most Aruban mer- 
chants glean from their customers. The windchargers were used to 
maintain an array of automobile batteries under charge — often as 
many as six or seven in parallel. The unitcame complete with a cut- 
out to avoid overcharging of the batteries. The houses were wired 
with 6 or 12 volt bulbs, and certain necessary electrical items such 
as water-pumps, etc., were also designed to operate on the low-volt- 
age DC current. 
Page 74, Allied Radio. The comments may be valid if you live in the 
U.S., but forget it if you’re outside. Allied has ridiculous minimum 
order charges and additional exorbitant fees for export. 
I’ve had the 
same service problems that everyone has with Lafayette, but I’ve 
had fairly good service from Newark Electronics in Chicago and ten 
other cities across the U.S. 
Special price on Tandberg tape recorders. 
| bought my model 64 for 
$205 when Allied, Lafayette, etc., were quoting $495. 
If you buy 
three or more model 64's at one time, you get a $10 discount on 
each. But there will be freight and duty costs. Write for informa- 
tion to Klaus Lefdal / Co. A/S, Bekkestua Pro., Oslo, Norway. 
In 
spite of authorized U.S. dealerships, | believe they will ship to the 
U.S. anyway. They also have good prices on AKG headsets, Thorens 
turntables, Leak amplifiers, BASF tape, and goodness-k nows what 
else. 
The James Leffel & Co., Springfield, Ohio, makes a variety of low- 
cost hydroelectric power plants, suitable for farms and communes 
with a stream and some way to get at least 8 feet of head. 
The hydraulic ram mentioned on p. 35 really works. 
| have seen 
them throughout Paraguay and Brazil, and they are virtually inde- 
structible and clank-along forever, using only the power of a moving 
Stream. 
Hydraulic rams are available in the U.S. from Rife Hydraulic 
Engine Manufacturing Co., Box 367, Millburn, New Jersey. 
For record-club afficionados overseas; if you like the all-inclusive 
“order-anything-from-Schwann” type, try Universal Record Club, 
Box 1111, Mountainside, New Jersey. Their export charges are very 
reasonable Compared with say, Citadel, whose charges are ridiculous. 
Another overseas bonus, “Visit USA"’ airline tickets. Even if you're 
an American citizen, as long as you reside so-many miles outside the 
U.S., you're eligible. 
The $150, 21-day deal is the best — an the 
feeder airlines. 
Forget those big promotional jobs on the trunk lines 
The feeders are good and cover more ground. Since the ticket must 
be started within 30 days from your arrival in the U.S., oet two of 
them and get 42 days of bombing-around for $300. Ther2 are no 
hitches or anti-double-back gimmicks. When you get tired, jump on 
the longest flight you can find. When you’re hungry, look for one 
with a meal coming up soon. A big bonus — as of last year, Alaska 
Airlines was in the deal. So my kids and | flew from NYC to Nome, 
Alaska and back for $300 (kids are half fare until the age of 20 or 21!). 
We even made a side trip from Seattle to Portland and back to buy 
cigarettes — they're cheaper in Oregon. 
Pete Schermerhorn 
Aruba 
Netherlands Antilles 
Electricity from the Alaskan Wind 
The generators from Dyna Tech have been used successfully 
for sometime in Alaskan villages. For awhile the schools used 
them — generally the 32 volt system. The 6 volt system seems 
suitable for cabins 
. 
. 
. need about a six mile wind. 
When attached to the roof of a cabin the noise caused by vi- 
bration may become annoying. Erect it on a cache or other 
outbuilding. 
Hope this helps. 
Skip Deegans 
Portage Creek, Alaska 
““@ = 
Together Tool 
There is one tool that | have not seen in your (our) Catalog 
that needs to be there because of its being so together. 
It is 
the Handyboy Pliers (No. DH 16) manufactured by the Dia- 
mond Tool and Horseshoe Company in Duluth, Minnesota 
and Toronto, Ontario. 
It consists of a six inch pliers, with adjustable wrench, wire 
cutter, and screw driver — all in one tool. Price is between 
four and five dollars. 
They are very strong and extremely useful — my old man has 
carried a pair for over a year; in which our activities have 
ranged from mountaineering — to sailing — 
to cycling. Time 
after time when something needed to pulled, pushed, crimped, 
bent, straightened, tightened, cut, or pounded — there would 
be no tool box handy — so he would pull out his too! and do 
the job. He swears by it and is seldom without it. 
We have given them as gifts to friends who also enjoy being 
together. 
One hint — make a leather sheath to hold tool when you’re 
carrying it in your pocket (to avoid catching on furniture and 
upholstery. 
Jan V. Tiura 
Moss Beach, CA 
. “> ex - 
Fire Without Matches and Books 
A browsefu! hour spent with the WE catalog indicates that some read- 
ers are on the fire-without-matches kick. 
For what they’re worth, a 
few suggestions: 
store, is the best tinder ever invented (if you really want to go first 
cabin, get the extra-fine kind that cabinetmakers use). Scratch a 
spark into a small glob of steel wool and watch it glow! Wrap the 
steel wool in a fist-sized glob of dried grass (say), blow on it for ten 
seconds, and presto! 
Instant fire: 
Ordinary household steel wool, of the kind available in any grocery 
And where do you get the sparks for the above process? From a cig- 
arette lighter, man! 
A cheap cigarette lighter, used without fuel, pro- 
vides an excellent source of sparks. Some spare flints can be carried 
x 
inside the tighter, down where the cotton filler is located, and you 
have a lifetime source of sparks — so much handier than a hunk of 
quartz and a broken file. 
Of course, you can fill your lighter with 
fluid if you want, but that takes all the fun out of it . 
ria 
|
And now a real survival item: 
the reflector in a flashlight (headlight, 
etc.) can start a fire for you on a sunny day. Simply take your flash- 
light apart, aim the reflector toward the sun, and poke a bit of tinder 
up through the hole where the bulb fits (a cigarette works fine), ex- 
tending it no more than half-an-inch (less may work better) and, 
presto! again. 
(You don’t actually get fire this way; what you get is a 
lighted cigarette which, with patience and tinder like steel wool or dry 
grass should make fire for you...) 
This, of course, is an adaptation of 
the “Solar cigarette lighter'’ that was common in novelty shops a few 
years ago. 
There are a couple of discount booksellers which readers of the Whole 
Earth Catalog might be interested in knowing about: 
Publisher's Central Bureau 
32-20 Hunters Point Avenue 
Long Island City, New York 11101 
and 
, 
Marboro Books 
131 Varkck Street 
New York, New York 10013 
Both these firms deal in publishers’ reject books — those which didn’t 
nM
show a profit on the stands and which are being sold at a reduced 
: 
price to clear the shelves. 
Best-sellers of a year or so ago will be priced 
at 1 to 2 dollars; big pictorial items Originally in the 10-15 dollar brack- 
et will be reduced to 3-5 dollars, and so on. 
. 
Both companies publish catalogs and both deal mostly by mail, al- 
though they take a while to fill orders. 
I've tried enclosing postal mon- 
ey orders rather than personal checks with my orders, but that doesn’t 
seem to speed things up any... 
Joe Smith 
Hood River, Oregon 
