Screw Appreciation 
You will see by my enclosure that the subject of this letter is screws. 
Since this is probably too commonplace a title to attract much at- 
tention lets call them fastening devices. This particular device is a 
combination of so many improvements on the standard wood screw 
that I'll be surprised if someone else hasn’t brought it to your atten- 
tion. In case no one has, here goes. 
It's 
aSheet Rock Screw. They are made to attach sheet rock to metal 
studs. They are designed to be driven with a power screw gun. They 
can be driven by hand, of course, and in fact are easier to drive than 
ordinary screws. 
Ideally, however, one should use a good quality var- 
iable speed and reversable drill. 
In the hands of the woodworker the 
applications are unlimited. 
To appreciate the screw, one must break it down to its components: 
1. It has a self tap point. No awl is required to mark the location 
and keep it there. 
It zips into wood or thin metal. 
2. There are two threads. The hi thread is at 30 degrees instead of 
the normal 60 for faster penetration. The 10 thread reduces wobble 
and provides lateral pressure. 
3. The shank is reduced in size giving greater thread exposure and 
gripping power. 
I'm told that it holds better alone than the same 
number of regular screws and glue. My experience with them seems 
to verify this, but | can't prove it. The narrow shank also eliminates 
the need to pre-drill in all but the hardest woods and thicker metal. 
There are minimum splitting problems. 
4. The finish is an attractive gray created by a zinc phosphate coat- 
ing with baked-on linseed oil. 
It is supposed to be corrosion resistant. 
5. The head is a patented shape called ‘Bugle’ head, For the wood- 
worker, the advantage is-no countersinking. 
It pulls down flush with 
little or no surface damage. 
6. The slot isa #2 Phillips, the advantages of which are well known. 
The pros use magnetic bits and don’t even hold the screw to guide it 
as it's being started. The steel they are made of is so tough it’s almost 
impossible to damage even the appearance of the slot with a spinning 
power bit. 
7. Since the awl, drill and countersink have been eliminated, the 
speed in driving with power or by hand is obvious. They are equally 
easy to extract if you make a mistake, want to disassemble your work 
and/or salvage the screws. 
If the above sounds like the manufacturer's sales pitch, it is. | copied 
most of it from the specifications, omitting the many other advantages 
that are probably only of interest to the sheet rock people. They are 
made by U.S. Gypsum Company, 101 S. Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 
60606. They come in various lengths and styles. There are variations 
for plastic, trim, sheet rock to wood, and a plain point for wood only, 
to mention a few. 
After using them, their superiority is so apparent that one feels cheated 
if he has to use the old kind again. If all this is so, why isn’t everybody 
using them? Why can’t you buy them in the neighborhood hardware 
store? | don’t really know. Anyway, | get mine at a building materials 
supply house that specializes in sheet rock, lath and plastering supplies, 
etc. They cost between $8.00 and $22.00 per thousand. 
| don’t re- 
commend them for the novice or occasional do-it-yourselfer. But for 
the guy who is “always building one thing or another”’ they are fabulous 
and worth obtaining. Instead of being the specialized fastening device 
they were designed to be, they are damn near universal. The only place 
| would hesitate to use them would be on a job where shear was impor- 
tant, such as a gate hinge. 
Fred Barrett 
Portland, Oregon 
e Fo 
Ln 
Of ® 
Go-Jo NO-LOK 
The counterpart to Loctite. Anyone who has ever put a ma- 
chine back together in imminent fear that the garped-up old 
threads are going to jam & that he’s then going to twist the 
head off a bolt, or anyone who has ever had to apply lots of 
Liquid Wrench & swearing to get a bolt off will dig it. You 
put it on the threads of a bolt and that bolt just slips in and 
won't ever lock up. | was amazed the first time | used it; 
makes bolts feel like brand-new. 
I’m not sure if it makes 
things more prone to coming loose from vibration — in mo- 
torcycle applications it may be best to use lockwashers or 
safety wire. 
Price varies; my father paid 95¢ for a little can; | paid $2.00 
for a really big one. Best obtained through auto parts supply 
houses. A little hard to find; in some places contacting job- 
bers or distributors may be necessary. 
Bill Houghton 
Fairfax, CA 
Another brand is Never-Seez. Fred. 
The P-38 
The P-38 (or 
GI can opener, as surplus store owners tend to 
refer to it) may well be the highest point to which technol- 
ogy has ascended and is certainly an indication of the direc- 
tion in which it should be headed — away from complex, 
flashy gimmickry and onward into simplicity and reliability. 
It weighs no more than a nickel, takes up less room than a 
key (I always carry mine on my keychain; you never know 
where your next can’s going to turn up), has a breakdown 
factor of 0, gets better with time (as all good things should), 
and, should you be unlucky enough to lose it, can be re- 
placed for just 9¢ ($.09) at the going rate. 
Within my admittedly limited experience, it has also served 
as an effective, if frustrating, fishhook, a reasonable facsimile 
of aknife-point, a tack remover, and a superb toothpick 
(though my dentist would probably flip his fillings if he 
heard me say that). 
Invest a.dime, slip it on your keyring (or lovebeads, depend- 
ing where you’re at) by means of the thoughtfully-provided 
hole (it was originally meant to go on a dog-tag chain), try 
to forget its militaristic ancestry, and never, never be without 
it. 
Note on can-opening with the P-38: 
Do not open the entire 
lid; leave a piece attached, fold the lid back, bend it in half, 
and you have a backwoods coffee cup, soup bowl, water 
glass, etc. 
Eliot Wald 
Chicago SEED 
Chicago, Illinois 
deta 
cLOseD 
— 
WORKING 
SNOW PROOF 
“Leathers Best Friend” makes leather like rubber (almost) 
for about 3 days. 
Available from the Snow Proof Co., Livonia, N.Y. 
About 69¢. 
[Suggested by Peter] 
RECOMMENDED 
Product Development and Design monthly magazine, 200— 
400 items reviewed descriptively each month, 600 or so ads 
for unusual items related to developing all sorts of products. 
Info and samples are available on check-off card type access 
system. Subscription free to qualifiers which must mean 
anyone in any type research; they sent it to us and we seem 
mainly to be researching our own heads and we didn’t ask 
for it. It is really a mind blow for the ‘’mechanically in- 
clined” or short-cut freak. In the last few years everything 
you ever thought would be a helpful little gadget or varia- 
tion has been manufactured and is available. This is one 
place you'll find out about it. Especially if it’s new. 
It 
must be invaluable to investment freaks cause it’s good ac- 
cess to technology’s rate of growth and the movement or 
dynamics of it in the small item part of the spectrum. 
It 
really seems to supplement the Thomas’ Registers and is 
full of useful stuff often available in sample form for free 
or a small charge to stimulate use of the item and a market 
for it. Product Design & Development, Bala-Cynwyd, Pa. 
19004. Reader (subscriber) qualifying application form 
on request. 
Recommended by 
Ron Williams 
ONYX 
New York, N.Y. 
ELLIPSE COMPASS 
Accurate to 0.005 in.; any angle to 90 deg. 
ar 
; R 
Accurate within 0.005 
<4 
in., this compass draws 
ellipses 
at any angle 
from 
O to 90 deg. 
It 
draws from % up to 12 
in. on the major axis, and 
up to 6 in. on the minor 
axis. It also draws circles 
up to 6 in. diameter. 
Constructed 
of alumi- 
num, chrome, and Teflon, 
: 
the compass 
works 
in 
ink, pencil, or scribe. Each compass is accompanied by 
a meter which helps you to set the legs quickly. 
For additional information, write or telephone J. E. 
Holmes, 
V.P., 
Ellipsco, 
Inc.. 7990 Dagget 
St.. San 
Diego, Calif. 92111. 
Area Code 714, 279-5142. 
Circle #494 on PD&D postcard enclosed. 
Cheap and Speedy Finish 
SPEEDY FINISH 
A 
penetrating wood finish developed 
by the U.S. Department of Agriculture is applied super-fast 
with a weed sprayer. It makes up in a gray-green shade only, 
but can cover a barn in two and a half hours, costs just 51¢ 
a gallon to compound. Researchers estimate that it will pro- 
tect wood for four years. It’s recommended for fencing, 
summer cottages and other structures built of low-grade lum- 
ber. The product isn’t available commercially, but you can 
have the formula free of charge. Write the USDA Forest 
Products Laboratory, Madison, Wisconsin 53705 and ask for: 
Research Note FPL — 0134, “Experimental Chromate Finish.” 
| found this bit in ‘Woman‘s Day’. May ECF would make a 
community look like a gray-green prison compound, but it 
sounds cheap and good. Worth looking into? 
Dorcas Hebb 
Bridgton, Maine 
S(* VO 
ANIMALS BEWARE 
The Raymond Thompson Co. of 15815 2nd Place West, 
Alderwood Manor, Washington 98036, makes a line of excel- 
lent steel snares designed for use on anything from squirrels 
and rabbits to grizzly bears. The No. 00 size is perfect for 
small stuff like rabbits, and the No. 0-XX-30 inch size, just 
a little bigger, is fine for slightly larger animals. Thompson 
packages these two snares together along with some interest- 
ing material on rigging snares, traps, drowners, etc. These 
are quite inexpensive, even the big snares for grizzlies run 
only $4.00 each. 
Bill Kirby 
Portland, Oregon 
