VITA 
VITA's International Division offers technical assistance spe- 
cifically to those in developing countries overseas. We solve 
problems by mail for foreign nationals sometimes directly 
with the nationals, sometimes through Peace Corps, A/D, 
CARE, United Nations and other groups. Our services are 
free. 
VITA's USA Division offers technical assistance to poverty 
programs within the United States. In addition to by-mail 
assistance, V/TA-USA offers a great deal of on-site consul- 
tation. There is no charge to a requester for such assistance. 
VITA-USA determines the eligibility of a requester by con- 
sidering whether or not the project is a self-help project and 
the inability of a requester to purchase the assistance needed. 
We distribute V/7A publications to people in the United 
States on an at-cost-plus-postage basis. We constantly re- 
ceive nickels and dimes for publications that cost more than 
the ad states and we would appreciate those who are inter- 
ested to write us for a publications list. The So/ar Cooker 
Construction Manual is out of print and no longer available. 
Also, in future listings please change the price for the Village 
Technology Handbook to read “$7.00 postpaid’. 
Terry Ladd 
Publications Specialist 
The following publications are available .rom: 
VITA 
College Campus 
Schenectady, New York 12308 
U.S.A. 
VITA Views, 4 pages. Reports on VITA activities, describes “finished 
problems”, lists selected unanswered technical requests and personnel. 
openings. Available free on request. 
Village Technology Handbook, 400 peges. 
1970. $7.00 (includes 
first-class postage). 
Rural Technology Manuals 
Smoking Fish in a Cardboard Smokehouse — 9 pages. 
1966. 15¢ 
How to Salt Fish — 9 pages. 1966. 15¢ 
How to Salt Fish— 10 pages. 1967. SPANISH. 154 
Making Building Blocks with the CINV A-Ram Block Press: A 
Supervisor’s Manual — 21 pages. 1966. 454 
Making Building Blocks with the CINV A-Ram Block Press: A 
Supervisor’s Manual — 22 pages. 
1968. SPANISH. 45¢ 
Low-cost Development of Small Waterpower Sites — 43 pages. 
1967. 
75¢. 
Fresh Produce Handling and Distribution — 11 pages. 1968. 15¢. 
Small-Scale Manufacture of Burned Building Brick — 12 pages. 
1970. PORTUGUESE. 
754 
Chalk Stick Making — 27 pages. 45¢ 
Playground Manual — 33 pages. 1969. 
754 
Write to VITA for a list of their Reports. 
FOUNTAIN OF LIGHT HAS FOLDED... 
We have just received a copy of the latest issue of 
Whole Earth Catalog. 
It is hard to describe exactly what we feel about 
being listed in such a,good publication, where a 
certain Spirit goes even further than the material 
published. That is in fact what we have been try- 
ing to do with the F-untain of Light: a Publica- 
tion able to open people’s mind to good work 
executed with care and Love, whatever it is, Baba 
Ram Dass and Gardening and Research, towards 
ways to establish a better communication on all 
levels. 
“And the world does not die!”’ says your back 
cover. We all hope that within his life time, Man 
will have enough sense to look at himself, help 
others look at themselves, help each other to look 
at their being part of the same universe. Let us 
help each other stay alive and become aware, with- 
in a Universe we will all try to know through SAY- 
ING SO. 
WRITING SO 
As we hope we will also come back to the 
work we started in the Fountain of Light. 
Peacefully, with Strength 
Roger Thomas/ for the Editor 
Jim Levy 
' 
& all of us (TAOS) 
CANADIAN ALMANAC 
The purpose of the Canadian Whole Earth Almanac is to 
provide Canadians with the information, sources of infor- 
mation, and materials necessary for survival and well-being; 
and to foster the availability and usage of the highest qual- 
ity goods at the lowest possible cost, to the end of improv- 
ing and enhancing our existence on all levels. 
Information on and sources for: 
FOOD — growing, gathering, preparing and storing 
SHELTER — building and furnishing 
ENVIRONMENT — astral, gaseous, terrestial, aqueous, 
vegetable, animal & human 
COMMUNITY & ARTS 
INDUSTRIAL ARTS 
SPIRITUAL PATHS 
and information of GENERAL PUBLIC CONCERN 
1 year subscription $9.00; single copy $3.00. 
The Canadian Whole Earth Almanac 
341 Bloor Street West, Room 208 
Toronto, Ontario 
YOU ARE 
GOING 
WRONG WAY 
‘SURVIVAL’ SURVIVAL 
(Ed. note) 
Looks like a good start. Charter issue has a broad range of head stuff 
and an artful selection of eye stuff. 
This is the first issue of survival, so you can see if it’s worth- 
while. The real beginning comes with what you do and the 
next issue. We don’t have the backing, so survival will have 
to pay for itself. There will be no paid advertising or com- 
mercial distribution to newsstands. You'll be able to get 
future issues only by subscribing —— fill out the blank on 
page 96, write a small check, and mail it. We did the first 
issue. Now it’s up to you. 
survival is published quarterly (in April, July, October, and 
January) by Channing and Laurel Grigsby at 2247 Prince 
Street, Berkeley, California, 94705, with a little help from 
our friends: those who wrote for this issue or allowed us to 
reprint; and Shari Horowitz, Nell Butrick, Lee Steinback, 
Julie Holdaway, and Claudia Niles. Cover photograph by 
Roger Mulky. Rates: $1 copy; $3.50 per year; $6 for two 
years (add 50¢ for Canada and $2 for mailing elsewhere. 
Any material submitted for publication cannot be returned 
unless accompanied by a self-addressed, stamped envelope. 
BIG ROCK CANDY MOUNTAIN 
Everything we learn is only real to the degree that it contributes to 
what we are. Direct knowledge of ourselves, the reality of the world 
we live in, and the facilitation of our inner growth and change are the 
ultimate goals of education. For the most part, self-knowledge has 
been limited to mysticism, psychoanalysis, and various beyond-the- 
fringe activities, and education has been limited to a culturally deter- 
mined range of ideas and techniques. We have been estranged from 
the knowledge of ourselves; it is no wonder that we are left empty 
by the present educational process in and out of school. 
The BIG ROCK CANDY MOUNTAIN seeks to aid in the acquisition 
of this knowledge: 
not by molding the learner into a pre-established 
pattern, but by providing resources to help him quench his thirst; 
not by teaching meaningless stockpiling leading to a dissatisfied life, 
but by encouraging growth in the present leading toward a joyous 
old age; not by changing people, but by awakening a desire to change. 
This is our motivation in doing this catalogue. 
A wae 
Whole Earth Catalog of the Air? 
Radio Geronimo (205.M.W.) 
1, Harley Street, 
London, W. 1. 
Stewart Brand 
Editor 
Whole Earth Catalog 
Dear Mr Brand 
Having read with amazed glee of the work your catalog has accom- 
plished in Rolling Stone some while back, it occurs to me that we 
might be able to get something going as we have now decided to 
start our own radio mail order catalog. 
As to why, you must understand the position of radio in England. 
Since the pirate radio ships were sunk by government legislature some 
three years ago the only radio here was provided by the British Broad- 
casting Corporation, which as the name suggests is totally government- 
controlled and run, and Radio Luxembourg, a station based on the 
mainland of Europe. Anything else is apparently quite illegal. Accord- 
ingly we made overtures to other European stations and were pleased 
to be offered transmission time by Radio Monte Carlo, which despite 
the distance of some 2,000 miles still has a surprisingly powerful sig- 
nal here. So we set ourselves up as a competitor to Luxembourg, run 
on exactly the same lines —— only with a totally free policy, which is 
something they sadly lack 
So we got on the air and then looked arcu nd for some way to finance 
the whole trip. Naturally we thought of advertising first of all, but 
they just didn’t want to kr.ow — 
it was a case of okay, when you're 
established we might think about it — so we moved on from there 
(who needs ads for baked beans and brillo anyway?) and having already 
established <.1 audience numbering several thousands and with a po- 
tential audience of some hundreds of millions more — due to the fact 
that we cover the whole of Europe — we realised the potential of mail 
order: 
if enough people dig Geronimo, which happily they appear to 
do, and they’re going to buy things anyway then they may as well buy 
them from us so that the profit is USED to keep Geronimo on the air. 
And it appears to be working. We started off with records, since they 
were being exposed on the radio anyway, and the response was en- 
couraging enough for us to start thinking about a general catalog, which 
is now well under way. So | thought it might be a nice idea if we some- 
how used the ideas which have gone into your Own very successful cata- 
logand incorporate some of them in our own, rever having seen a Whole 
Earth Catalog. Anyway, let us know what you think. 
Happinesses, 
Hugh Nolan 
—~ee” 
Hugh Nolan 
20 June 70 
Ill be damned. 
All along I’ve thought that Cataloging wouldn't make 
it on the air (radio or TV) because of time bind: Catalog involves 
scanning, and you can't easily scan in time like you can in space over 
a page. But giving purchase-access to what you carry anyway — music 
— is brilliant. And you might be able to extend it to books by dramat- 
ic reading of selected quotes from books you want to carry (incidental- 
ly, we've had no copyright hassles yet from publishers, since we im- 
prove their sales). Other tools might be a little more awkward on the 
air. All it comes down to is Selective Free Advertising, designed by 
you. 
Stewart Brand 
eS @<e- 
Big Rock Candy Mountain 
$8/ year (6 issues) 
$4 single copies 
from: 
Big Rock Candy Mountain 
Portola Institute 
1115 Merrill Street 
Menlo Park, CA 94025 
