) New Suggestions‘ 
SAFE AND NOT SO SAFE 
Commercial insecticidal preparations whith are relatively 
safe for the environment: 
Antrol African Violet and House Plant Insecticide Bomb 
Black Flag Ant and Roach Killer 
d-Con Double Action Ant-Roach Killer and Repellent 
d-Con House and Garden Spray 
Flea Collars (all brands) 
Formaldehyde Fumes 
Green Thumb Insecticide Spray 
Hartz Mountain Cat Flea and Tick Killer 
Hartz Mountain Dog Flea and Tick Killer 
Hartz Mountain Rid Tick 
Hartz Mountain Rid Tick Shampoo 
Johnson’s No-Roach 
Ortho Isotox 
Ortho Malathion 50 
Oxalic Acid (any brand) 
Raid Flying Insect Spray 
Raid House and Garden Spray 
Raid Rose and Flower Spray 
Real Kill Househcld Spray 
Roaches’ Last Meal 
Sal Soda (any brand) 
Scope Insecticide Granules 
Sears Sevin 
Sergeant’s Flea and Tick Powder 
Sergeant’s Flea and Tick Spray 
Shell No-Pest Strip (should not be used-in rooms with in- 
fants or invalids) 
Spectracid 
Terro Roach Killer 
Beware of preparations containing the following. They are 
the compounds most likely to accumulate and cause damage 
to the environment and people. Know your enemy. 
Aldrin 
Endrin 
Methoxychlor 
BHC 
Heptachlor 
Perthane 
Chlordane 
Heptachlor epoxide 
Strobane 
DDD (TDE) 
 Hexachlorobenzene 
Telodrin 
DDE 
Kelthane 
Toxaphene 
DDT 
Kepone 
Dieldrin 
Lindane 
Commercial insecticidal preparations which may accumulate 
and eventually cause environmental damage. 
Antrol 
Antrol Ant Trap 
Comfy-Pet Flea and Tick Killer 
d-Con Ant Pruf 
d-Con Roach Pruf 
d-Con Stay Way 
Hartz Mountain Cat Flea Powder 
Hartz Mountain Dog Flea Powder 
Hide 
Ortho And and Roach Spray 
Ortho Chlordane Spray 
Ortho DDT-25 
Ortho Dormant Spray 
Ortho Lawn Spray 
Ortho-Klon 44 
Ortho Triox 
Paket Ant Bait 
Raid Ant and Roach Spray 
Raid Moth Proof 
Raid Yard Guard 
Science Kelthane 
Sears Ant Killer 
Sears Flying Insect Killer 
Sears Insect Spray 
Terro Ant Killer 
Prepared by Indiana University 
Biology Dept. for Crisis Biology 
Series Lectures 
Sent in by 
Barbara K-G 
Bloomington, Indiana 
“Your Future In...” in the Future 
The “Your Future In...” series [Spring 1970] will soon be 
sold by Arco Publishing Company 
219 Park Avenue So. 
New York, N.Y. 10016 
and thru them will be available in paper @ $1.95 each in 
- November. 
: 
2s 
Stan Gould 
Berkeley, CA 
By MARY GULLBERG 
Co-op Home Economist 
Detergents containing phosphates are biode- 
gradable — and the reasons lengthy. Some 
of the press and many consumers have con- 
fused ‘’biodegradable" with ‘phosphate pol- 
lution."’ These are entirely different things 
although both affect water quality. In 1965- 
66, the entire detergent industry switched to 
a biodegradable ‘‘active ingredient” in the 
detergent formulas. This means that the ac- 
tive detergent compound in all products nat- 
urally disintegrates in time and will not in- 
definitely pollute our waters. 
The problem with phosphates is not biode- 
gradability. Phosphates permit the growth 
of algae and other water plants in lakes and 
bays thus hastening the ‘‘death” of the body 
of water since these water plants use up the 
oxygen needed by fish and certain bacteria 
which keep the water clean. 
Phosphate ‘‘builders’’ are added to the 
heavy-duty laundry detergent formulas to 
increase the cleansing action of the deter- 
gent proper. (Light-duty detergents contain 
little if any phosphate.) 
Since one effect of 
the addition of phosphates is to soften the 
water, the amount in a given formula may 
vary depending upon the hardness of soft- 
ness of the water in the sales area. Brand X 
could have 10% phosphate in a soft-water 
area and 50% in a hard-water area. 
Other inorganic compounds have been tried 
as builders for detergents (carbonates, bo- 
rates, silicates and most recently nitriJotri- 
acetic acid) but none of them are as effective 
as phosphates. The major detergent makers 
are giving top priority to finding a substitute 
that will be effective but will not pollute. 
The deterrents in det 
Or it may be possible to improve the treat- 
ment of waste water for phosphate removal. 
Some two billion pounds of phosphates per 
year are marketed in detergents. 
In addition, 
680 million pounds of phosphates per year 
enter our streams form sources other than 
detergents — mainly human wastes and ur- 
ban and farm runoff. 
For these reasons, some experts on water 
quality are urging that phosphate pollution 
should not be handled by legislation banning 
phosphates in detergents at this time. 
(This 
is the way the detergent industry was forced 
to convert to biodegradable detergents in 
1965-66. At present, Rep. Reuss of Wiscon- 
Co-op sells) contain little or no phosphate. 
ergents 
sin has a bill, H.R. 2435, before the House 
Committee on Public Works that would ban 
phosphate-containing detergents from the 
market.) 
It is too bad that the potential role of phos- 
phates in water pollution was not determined 
before they were introduced into detergent 
formulas. 
But it is clear-that any substitute 
for phosphates must not only be as effective 
as they are in washing clothes but must also 
not be detrimental to water quality. Hence 
the fear that legislation might be too harsh a 
method for dealing with the problem in light 
of our present lack of knowledge. 
hy 
Enzyme presoaks (Biz, Axion, etc.) contain 
high levels of phosphates as all common sub- 
stitutes for them kill the enzymes. Since 
enzymes are not especially more effective 
than detergents for either soaking or washing 
clothes, you can easily dispense with their 
use. 
Laundry soaps (White King is the only one 
Unfortunately, soap doesn't work very well 
in automatic washers unless the water is ex- 
tremely soft, softer than that available in 
most areas including the East Bay. The 
hardening salts in the rinse water react with 
the soap residues in the wash to form a white 
curd which is visible on colored articles. 
| 
wonder, since we send men to the moon, if 
our engineers Couldn't design an automatic 
washer that would permit the use of that 
least of all water pollutants, soap? 
Behrend’s Book 
| would like to thank you for the interesting review given to 
our book [Behrend’s Book] on page sixty-eight of your cata- 
log [Spring 1970]. 
\t has created a problem for us however, 
as near as we can figure, we have got about 5,000.00 requests 
as a direct result of your listing, and we are just all out of 
catalogs. We are working hard on a new one as you know it 
takes time. 
If you get complaints, that people did not get a catalog from 
us, please understand that you help create the problem: 
Incidentally our new catalog will be much better than the 
last and with much more useful information. We may have 
to charge for it, for people who are not regular accounts. 
Jack Behrend 
Chicago, Illinois 
Nine-spotted Lady Beetle 
Ladybugs 
Put away those garden sprays! A safe killer of aphids, fruit 
scales, bollworms, and leafhoppers are the Hippodamia Con- 
vergens. Freely translated, this is the Ladybug Beetle. For 
$2.50 you can buy 9,333 Ladybugs (1 pint) from the Sierra 
Bug Company, P.O. Box 114, Lady Bug Lane, Rough & Ready, 
California 95975. The bugs will arrive live and ready to con- 
sume 40-50 aphids per bug per day. Other quantities: 1 qt.— 
$3.50, 1 gallon (75,000 bugs!!!) — $7.00. Tell them you be- 
long to ZPG. 
; 
from: 
A 
; 
Zero Population Growth Newsletter 
Menlo Park — Atherton — Palo Alto — 
Stanford Chapter 
from: Co-op News, April 6, 1970 
Hi-Fi Tips 
Read John Holt’s hi-fi letter, and concur with his rave review of the 
Dynaco speaker. After about 13 years as a hi-fi buff, the last 8 of 
them writing about the field professionally, Dyna is one of those 
companies whose new products | tend to trust before | see them, but 
in the speaker, they've surpassed themselves. 
Dyna also has discovered that a good step towards the effect of a four- 
channel system can be achieved with existing stereo recordings and 
broadcasts, using only one extra speaker. Connect 
it across the hot 
leads of both stereo channels, and any instrument that was recorded 
out of phase in the two normal channels comes out loud and clear 
from this 3rd speaker (which should be in the back of the room). Oth- 
er than that, stay clear of four-channel for at least 6 months, until the 
smoke clears. There will be lots of pseudo-quad gadgetry and some 
good stuff coming out in a batch between now and Fall. 
The Rectilinear X John Holt mentions has been replaced by the Xa, 
which Rectilinear (friends of mine) say is better, as does the guy who 
writes their ads, and uses them at home. There seems to be some 
opinion that the X (and Xa) beat the more expensive Rectilinear | 11; 
| haven't directly compared them, so can’t confirm, but all 3 Recti- 
linears sound fine to me, and | prefer the RIII to the AR-3a for most 
(not all) material — especially prefer RII! for piano, but AR-3a for 
most pop. 
; 
1f | were recommending a cheap component system right now, my 
choice would be: 
Dual 1212 changer of AR turntable. 
; 
Grado FTR ($10) cartridge — Shure M91E, if you want to spend 
lots more. 
(Also, listen to the Pickerings — | don’t know 
how well they sound from personal experience, but the 
dust-brush feature is nice for people who don’t clean rec- 
ords much) 
Sony ST-5600 tuner 
Sony TA-1100 amp (may be prejudiced — had them in the house 
while | wrote ads about them for Sony — but they seemed 
very good for the money: $120 each) 
Dynaco A25 speakers. 
Watch for Dolby-ized tape and cassette equipment later this year — it 
lets you get good quality on recordings you make at slower speeds 
(saving tape); KLH $225 tape recorder has it now, others to follow, 
especially in cassette. 
Doesn't do anything for pre-recorded tapes, 
though. 
: 
Roy Allison's hi-fi book from Dover publications (sugg. by Fred) is 
best practical guide | know; Ed Villchur’s companion volume (also 
Dover p.b.) is best, most lucid, most accurate guide to hi-fi theory. 
van Berger 
New York, N.Y. 
Other companies | take on faith: 
AR, Shure, KLH (at least, 
until many of their top brains went out and started Advent — 
now | wait and see on both companies). 
P.S?; 
AR speakers sound very bass-y when sitting on the floor. If 
you don’t like that, they make a good, cheap speaker stand — 
or raise your speaker on a crate (good for other speakers, too, 
with the same problem). 
d 
P.P.S. 
L 
* 
/ 
