STONE WORKS 
Stone wails & buildings. These are actually weaker than they look. 
It was the wood frame houses that survived the Alaskan earthquake. 
Cement got no give like wood & stonework is much slower than 
carpentry. 
Still it looks like all time and we went ahead. In planning make sure 
your foundation extends deeper than the frost will. Here in Maine 
frost heave is a prime consideration for a stone building could easily 
be cracked to bits. 
Surround the foundation with rocks of any size & type up to grade 
to allow for movement. Don't pack dirt in there. 
As for type of rocks to build with, granite is best. Save your really 
square stones for corners. 
Stratified, slate, etc. (| don‘t know the geo- 
logical terms) are no good, These sedimentary types are porous and 
the water they suck up will expand/contract and you’re in trouble. If 
you toss it down on the pile & it shatters there you are. 
But don’t 
slam it cause anything would crack from that. 
Use forms to get the straightest walls. Within these you can lay up 
vertically faster than without, but time saved is lost putting the forms 
together so the outside surface should be the consideration for forms. 
Our walls are straight enough to sight down tho it’s a personal aesthetic. 
Even with forms, don’t just toss the rocks & mortar in. A strong 
beautiful wall is laid up rock by rock. No other way. 
| worked with 
a mason of 60 years to learn to lay fieldstone. Practice is the way. 
Knowing which rock to choose from your pile. Like a puzzle with 
no two parts the same. Choosing the wrong rock means that your 
work comes down on your feet. (So don’t be barefoot! 
Also cement 
contains lye that burns like brimstone. Wash the stuff off afore it eats 
your very hide. After a few weeks you'll have to wear rubber work- 
gloves as your hands will be most tender.) An old Maine stonemason 
told me that ‘Even a round rock has a flat side if you can find it.” 
After building a while you'll understand this. Lay up a rock for 
strength always thinking of the rock that will rest atop it. Don’t be 
cheap with the mud (cement) but learn what it won’t do. Sometimes 
a rock will get a better bite on another when they're dry & just have 
cement around their edges. Like bricks only more tricky. 
!f you de- 
cide to eyeball it (build without forms) stretch 2 strings down your 
outside dimension & lean over & sight down. When you only see one 
string that’s your limit. Careful that a rock doesn’t protrude & throw 
your line off. It’s easy to build it too wide. 
Have a large pile of rocks to choose from. Tiny to fist size stones are 
what you need to trig up the biggies that wobble. 
Little triangular 
shapes are best. Build a wall that rests on rocks tho, not tiny trigs or 
cement. The old timers here built walls without any kind of mortar (!) 
but just skill in laying. Those walls are still solid 130 years later. So 
LAY up your rocks, don't glue them up. 
Progress right around your foundation a layer at a time so that when 
you come back to the starting point you'll be laying on dry or almost 
dried wall. This isn’t possible if you’re using forms. This because you 
have to build right up several feet & then move this whole rig down the 
line. 
We built a building 30x36x11 with foundations 4 feet deep ona 
1 
ft. 
poured concrete footing. Wall thickness was 1% ft. up to grade & a 
foot above ground. Solid enough for Maine but you might scale this 
down a great deal in a milder climate. (By the way, if you’re building 
stone walls around an existing building it would be most simple, for 
you already have your forms. Accordingly if you plan to have studded 
interior walls go ahead & put up your studding & then cover the out- 
side with plywood & build along that. The plywood could be removed 
when the cement dries & shifted for use again.) 
We used an old gas engine to run our mixer. Keep cement from the 
motor & you'll be ok. Rocks are plentiful in Maine. For special rocks 
try the seashore or a tombstone dealer for scrap. We got lots of col- 
ored marble & granite for a six-pack of Shlitz. Some states forbid sel- 
ling old tombstones but we got some fragments for the walls. Neigh- 
bors consider any messing with tombstones goulish so turn the letter- 
ing to the inside. You may have the sheriff's grandmaw’s rock. 
Lay your heaviest rocks around your feet, as lifting gets hard above 
“ your chest. 
Favorite, sentimental, or mystical rocks stand out from 
eyelevel to about eight feet up. Don’t bury that romantic special 
thing at ankle level. We tried to get a piece of the moon for our wall 
but NASA never came through. A few meteors might be astrologically 
favorable for your project. Since our walls went up eleven feet we 
laid from the flatbed of a 2-ton truck above 5 or 6 feet. This proved 
to be an ideal mobile staging with room for two masons, mortar box 
~ and a large rockpile. 
When the walls are finished go back and point up around your rocks. 
Pointing is a mason’s signature. Use pointing cement only in small 
batches (a mixer full will dry out before you couid, use it) & a small 
trowel. The stuff is quick drying & sticks when you flip it in the 
cracks. 
; 
Look around at good walls before you start. Observe or work with a 
mason if possible. Don't get discouraged. 
It takes a bit of laying to 
make those rocks stay up there but you can do it if you can dig it. 
Consult the J Ching on any major problem. 
Mark Mendel 
Dixmont, Maine 
o<— 
—- 
ABORIGINAL SWEATING 
Y our suggestions for outdoor living have been extremely enlighten- 
ing. One suggestion — the aboriginal sweat house or sweat-lodge has 
along history in N. America and most likely has its adaptive advan- 
tages. The Finnish and other similar Scandinavian saunas are perhaps 
the only extant parallels in the Western World — and unfortunately 
are costly and require a certain amount 
of skill to construct. 
How- 
ever the aboriginal sweat house takes many forms — all of them easy 
to construct and if done right have nearly the efficiency of an ex- 
pensive sauna. 
| have personally constructed two — after Nez Perce 
practices — and have surprised many of my friends with their heat- 
holding capacity. The sweat house ritual is varied and complex — 
some groups separate the sexes, i.e. don't sweat together (Nez Perce 
for example); others sweat communally. The social, psychological 
and physiological advantages of sweating are numerous and not to 
my knowledge adequately researched (Finnish data is best). This 
Nez Perce (contemporary) sweat house wil! sweat four to six: 
You need: 
@ 
5-7 green, usually deciduous, poles, approx. 15° length 
©@ 
1 ball sturdy twine or if a purist, rawhide strips 
@ 
blankets — Nez Perce uses blankets of wool, old coats, clean 
gunny sacks, any pliable insulating material of cloth will do, 
get plenty! 
2 pitch forks 
One 20 gallon can — not absolutely necessary 
2 18'-20' sticks, 1’ or so in diameter 
First — you will need a location near water (usually a stream) — 
cleared of all brush and undergrowth. An area 30° in diameter will 
do depending on local conditions. Stream must be deep enough to 
allow submergence of one’s body. 
Next — shape of wickiup type lodge will be semi-hemispherical about 
8' or so in diameter. Construct frame by holding green poles in prop- 
er shape over a fire (small) and slightly dry poles which wil! hold 
curved shape better. Tie poles together with twine thereby maintain- 
ing shape. 
DIAGRAM #4 
Next — Cover frame with insulating material — 3 or 4 layers will suf- 
fice. Leave no spaces! Lodge must be nearly air-tight. 
| use an initial 
layer of plastic tarping to aid in heat retention — although | dislike 
its negative appeal. Leave a door just big enough to enter — you can 
hitch a cross-piece to the frame of the lodge and hang several blankets 
off it making sure an adequate seal is formed. 
Next — dig a small depression inside the door and to the right — this 
becomes the receptical for the red-hot rocks. Should be 10’ deep and 
25-30’ in diameter. 
Line this hole with good rocks (see definition of 
a good sweat rock, which follows). 
Next — gather 30 or so sweat rocks. A good rock is hard to find. My 
best luck has been with slightly vesicular basalt, subangular and about 
twice the size of abrick. Test rocks by heating over fire to a red hot 
glow — sprinkle over with water. 
If the rocks spit and hiss but do not 
explode or crack — you may have a good rock. River rocks have been 
my best source, i.e. subangular basalt cobbles. Granite is too heteroge- 
neous. 
Next — gather wood — the best wood is usually the hardest to pro- 
cure. Most deciduous wood burns hotter but is harder to find. 
| use 
anything | feel right about. Never cut a green tree for firewood or for 
any stupid reason. Use dead wood, stumps. You need alot. Build 
your fire place next to, but not too close to, your sweat lodge, which 
is hopefully next to, but not too close to, the water. Stack your fire 
logs, crosscrossing to achieve a sturdy and fairly flat top, on which you 
evenly distribute your rocks. 
Fire is fairly big and hence you will need 
adequate precautionary measures. 
th 
DIAGRAM * 6% 
*+e@<->- ener 
——— 
oa 
For Stone Houses 
! read the letter about rocks for building purposes [p. 21 in the March 
Catalog]. I’m a geology major, and think | can help alittle. 
First, he says the land is covered with volcanic rocks. These will fall 
into three types: 
1. Dark, heavy, fine grained basalt. 
2. Glassy massive obsidian, various colors. 
3. Light weight cellular pumice or scoria. 
Of these three, the basalt is the best for building. 
It’s tough, very hard, 
and weathers slowly. The obsidian is essentially glass, and though 
stronger than steel, it is easily broken. 
It is strong enough to build 
with, but may be too non-porous and smooth to mortar together. 
It 
also weathers slowly. The pumice and scoria is no good for uses re- 
quiring standing weight, such as a wall. However, it will make an ex- 
cellent insulator for hollow walls or sub floor fill. 
If the rocks are of many different types, you will have to examine each 
type for three necessary characteristics: 
1. 
It should be hard and heavy. 
2. \t should be fine grained. 
3. 
It should not weather appreciably. 
To check weathering, break the rock and match the fresh surface to the 
old surface. Only aslightly faded appearance on the old surface is per- 
missable. 
A different color on the outside as compared to the inside 
is indicative of severe chemical weathering. 
Also check the hardness 
of the weathered surface. 
It it is flaky or crumbly, it’s no good. 
Also check the well rounded rocks in any stream beds which may 
be on the property. These rocks are often the most resistant and hardest 
Roy. L: Porter 
Virginia Beach, Virginia 
Ae] >e : 
Next — light fire — usually takes 45 minutes to an hour or even long 
er depending on wood. The rocks fall thru to the ground and become 
ash-covered. 
This is where the pitch forks come in. 
The rocks should 
actually be red hot and you will need them to pass the rocks into the 
house. One individual must receive and arrange the rocks in the re- 
ceptacle pit so he will need the two sticks. 
By the way, the house is 
only about 3%’ high in the center so this individual is on his knees. 
The pitch fork will facilitate cleaning burning ashes and embers from 
the rocks in the transferring process — these ashes wou Id cause smoke 
in the lodge. 
Line floor of lodge with clean gunny sacks — cheap and 
available at any feed store. 
Next — after rocks are all in place, all can climb in (naked of course) 
and enjoy. The host tends the rocks by sprinkling smal! amounts of 
water on top which cause increased humidity. 
| use pungent water, 
made by using certain roots; these cause a delightful fragrance | groove 
on. Sweat house lore says you should be serious or at least not too 
playful. When you are well heated and feel ready for the water — do 
indulge. Most serious sweaters consider the plunge into the water and 
the accompanying sensations to be the best part of sweating. Three 
times in the sweat house should be enough — an effective contracep- 
tive too. 
An existing sweat house: 
DIAGEAM * B 
WICKWP FRAME 
POLES 
: su er 
stra 
Howe 
Seo 
aera 
ELEVATION 
e900 
oo? 
Hope you can use this info. 
If you have questions, do write. 
Submitted by 
Greg Cleveland 
Albuquerque, N.M. 
