Fy 
° 
* J Food and Ways 
Vegetables, Cooked or Raw 
Two very excellent vegetarian cookbooks not in your Jan. 
WEC listing: 
¢ 
Vital Foods for Total Health — 
A Cookbook & Kitchen Guide by 
Bernard Jensen, D.C. 
Dr. Bernard Jensen Enterprises 
2958 West 7th Street 
Los Angeles, CA 
($4-5 range) 
Ten Talents by Dr. Frank J. Hurd, D.C. & Rosalie Hurd, B.S. 
The College Press 
Collegedale, Penn. 37315 ($7.50) 
Perhaps the best vegetarian cookbooks currently in print. Both 
well grounded in nutrition and bio-chemistry with vitamin- 
mineral charts, food classifications, value & use of herbs in 
food preparation and hundreds of recipes from drinks to des- 
serts. Both nicely printed on glossy paper, full-page photo- 
graphs of foods & prepared dishes, and spiral bound for easy 
reference — well worth the rather high prices. 
For anyone interested in simplifying the simple life —-elimina- 
tion of stoves, pots & pans and most kitchen utensils, | heartily 
recommend a “Raw Food” dietary. 
It’s delicious, nutritious, 
‘nodishes’ trip. Seriously, more and more nutritionists, bio- 
chemists and even M.D.’s are claquing about the health value 
of enzymes in the total body economy and recommending 
raw foods as the best sources of these essentail chemical sub- 
stances so readily destroyed thru oxidation and cooking. Here 
are a few among the best NO-COOK books available which 
give the rationale of unfired food and endless recipes. (These 
are for the neophytes and gastronomes; advanced raw food 
freaks need no recipes — food is simply eaten out of hand 
with little or no preparation other than washing and peeling 
when necessary.) 
The Elixir of Life by Arnold De Vries ($3.00) 
Harvest House, P.O. Box 5, Pacific Palisades, CA 
Vital Facts 
About Foods by Otto Carque ($2.00) 
Kahan & Lessin Co., 2425 Hunter St., Los Angeles, CA 
Diet & Salad Suggestions by N.W. Walker, D.Sc. ($2.00) 
Norwalk Press, P.O. Box 13206, Phoenix, Ariz. 
Cook-less Recipes by Shirley A, Boie ($1.00) 
Boie Enterprises, P.O. Box 66235, Los Angeles, CA 90066 
The No-Cook Book by John Tobe ($10.00!) 
Tobe’s, St. Catherines, Ontario, Canada 
Fruit Dishes & Raw Vegetables by M. Bircher-Benner, M.D. 
& Max E. Bircher, M.D. 
Children’s Diet by M. Bircher-Benner, M.D. (About $1.00 ea.) 
both from: 
Health Research, Mokelumne Hill, CA 
Dyana Lu 
New London, Conn. 
Soybeans 
Dried soybeans (complete vegetable protein and delicious) do 
not need overnight or any soaking (nor does any other kind of 
dried bean or pea that | know of). | have been rendering them 
perfectly tender by cooking one or two handfuls in the pot 
with 2 cups of rice (brown) and a bit less than 4 cups of cold 
water — all brought to a boil and simmered for 40 minutes. 
This works with our homegrown soybeans, storebought soy- 
beans, yellow peas, azuki beans, chidk peas, lentils, Jacob’s 
Cattle beans, black beans, and undoubtedly others. 
Specialty Foods as per January Catalog is not at W. Houston 
Street, but at 84 Thomas Street in N.Y.C., and they do not 
sell 100 Ibs. of rice for $15 and never did. They are a whole- 
sale outfit and prefer not to fill orders of less than $100. As 
part of a large order they will sell 120 Ibs. of rice for $25.20, 
which is still a good price. We were there today. A catalogue 
is coming out soon. 
Susan Custh 
Berlin, Connecticut 
nz 
= 
* 
Spear Fishing 
For $125 | have been feeding our entire community of eleven 
adults and four children. $125 will buy you an entire spear 
fishing outfit at Steeles (Telegraph, Oakland). For vegetables, 
flour, dope and whiskey | trade my surplus. To learn, find 
somebody who is an expert diver and apprentice yourself. I’m 
available for advice. 
Alan Graham 
Caspar, CA 
Brown Rice Rides Again 
Tried to get 100 Ibs. of Koda Brothers brown rice from the 
N.Y. distributor listed (Sol Rabinowitz) — 
1) address has changed — however — 
2) no good anyway, since they won't sell you 100 Ibs., only 
to retailers. 
3) How do you get rice from a wholesaler? How do you 
get rice at a wholesale price? 
Mike & Carla Mantler 
New York, N.Y. 
As a result of your listing my name and address in your cata- 
log as a source for Koda Brothers Brown Rice, | have been 
bombarded with requests for information and orders ranging 
from 2ibs. to 100 Ibs. of this rice. 
Just to straighten you out, please be advised that | am Bill 
and Ed Koda’s New York representative for the sale of their 
products to the WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTING trade only. 
These people supply retail stores and may or may not sell 
to consumers, depending on the quantity involved. 
In addi- 
tion to Erewhon Trading Co. of Boston, whom you also list, 
the wholesale distributors in the East are: 
Mottel Sugar & Bakers Products, Inc. 
451 Washington Street 
New York, N.Y. 10013 
Japan Food Corp. 
11-31 31st Avenue 
Long Island City, N.Y. 11106 
Infinity Foods 
171 Duane Street 
New York, N.Y. 10013 
L.E. Robert Company 
792 Union Street 
Brooklyn, N.Y, 11215 
Please make the necessary corrections in your subsequent 
catalogs because writing to me is a waste of time on the part 
of your readers and my time in replying to them. Thank you! 
Sol H. Rabinowitz 
Jamaica, N.Y. 
P.S. May | add that the price of $12.20 is misleading as we 
get much more from the wholesale distributors in the East. 
See p. 52 for a short rap by Fred about wholesale buying. 
All About Food Plants 
In the past, I’ve been a student of ecology, mushroom hunter, herb 
grower, and now I'm doing some organic gardening. Here are some 
more suggestions from those realms, 
My favorite book is Plants, Man & Life, Edgar Anderson, U.C. Press, 
Berkeley, paper, $1.95. Oriented toward economic botony, or, how 
did food plants get domesticated and what can we learn from this? 
“Suggested Readings’ at the end is a beautiful bibliography. 
| went 
through as many of the books as | could find in the Bay Area, but 
unfortunately very few were available in libraries, even U.C, and the 
California Academy of Sciences. Particularly valuable would be Carl 
O. Sauer’s Agricultural Origins and Dispersals, originally published by 
the American Geographical Society, N.Y., 1952. | called Stacey's 
about it and they say it is in paperback by M.I.T. Press, $2.95. Also 
Oakes Ames (Anderson‘s teacher), Economic Annuals and Human 
Culture, Botanical Museum of Harvard University, Cambridge, 1939, 
You don’t seem to have mentioned any taxonomic manuals — or have 
| missed something? 
| use Jepsen (A Manual of the Flowering Plants 
of California, U.C, Press, $10), and, for cultivated plants (like in 
flower gardens, or crops growing in fields), Liberty H. Bailey, Manwal 
of Cultivated Plants, MacMillan, $19.50. Taxonomy is a very useful 
tool — with it you can identify any plant anywhere, and once you 
have the name can find out about it in literature. Or if you have the 
correct description (taxonomy is based on describing certain features 
about a plant that distinguish it from other plants) you can talk about 
a plant with people who may know it by a different common name 
(in a different language, say) than you do. Mushroom books also 
describe taxonomically. Another California manual, and newer than 
Jepsen, is Munz (ed. Keck), A California Flora, U.C. Press, $11.50. 
This manual is the basis for the smaller Munz books on identifying 
wildflowers of different regions. I’m fonder of Jepsen myself. 
The taxonomic method is rather arbitrary, since it is based on often 
non-essential characteristics of plants as means of differentiating 
them. 
It has as an adjunct an extensive system of herbariums all 
over the country, where dried plant specimens, properly identified, 
are kept for reference. People who know plants only by dried speci- 
mens get kind of weird (this is discussed with humor in Anderson's 
book). But it’s still useful. For example, | think it’s a very good idea 
when settling on land to do a plant survey. This tells you about what 
kind of land you have (certain plants are indicators — see Joseph Con- 
cannouer’s Weeds). 
It is difficult — in some cases almost impossible — to learn from a book. 
| took a summer field course at U.C. in basic taxonomy and learned to 
identify about forty families of plants by sight, and their species either 
by sight or with a manual, in ten weeks. High school teachers and 
people attached to State and regional parks can help, could even be per- 
suaded to teach a group if enough people were interested. My textbook 
was Lawrence, An Introduction to Plant Taxonomy , 
MacMillan. 
Your coverage of mushroom identification books is fine, but | have 
graduated from Smith and McKenny (both of which | have) to A Guide 
to Mushrooms and Toadstools by Morten Lange and F. Bayard Hora, 
Dutton. 
It is very complete and has color painting instead of photo- 
graphs, which | like, and every species is shown in color. 
| belong to 
the San Francisco Mycological Society and | recommend that anybody 
who is interested in mushrooms join the nearest mycological group 
for help with locating and identifying. Write to the North American 
Mycological Association, 4245 Redwood Road, Portsmouth, Ohio 
45662, for the address of the nearest group. There is also a mail- 
order bookstore which has everything about mushrooms (and also 
many books an plants, and some assorted other scientific subjects): 
Lew Heymann, P.O. Box 6448, Carmel, Calif. 93921. His catalogs are 
free and fantastic. 
Now, about herbs. Many of your readers have groppled nobly with 
the problems, and | concur with the reader who suggested Greene 
Herb Gardens. 
| also recommend Taylor's Garden, 2649 Stingle Ave., 
So. San Gabriel, Calif. They. ship plants, at least in California. One 
of the organic seed places has more than the usual herbs: 
Vita Green 
© 
Farms, P.O.B. 878, Vista, Calif. 92083, Other organic seed houses: 
Natural Development Co., Bainbridge, PA 17502; George W. Park Seed 
Co., Greenwood, S.C. 29646. This last doesn't look organic to me but 
is recommended by my teacher in organic gardening, Dr. Bargyla 
Rateaver (who is teaching a couple of courses through U.C. Extension 
and also at high schools in Marin County, plus lectures on KPFA — 
which have already been broadcast but we are trying to get KPFA to 
repeat them). Park also has quite a few herb seeds. Vita Green is 
worth writing to for a yellow sheet they:send to you with the seed 
list, called ‘A Report on the Death of Earth's Civilization, Interspace 
News Dateline May 10, 1995.” 
Finally, organic gardening. 
Dr. Rateaver welcomes letters and will an- 
swer questions. She is trying to be a one-woman green revolution. She 
lives-at 8 Stadium Way, Kentfield, Calif. 94904. She also sells things — 
fossil fertilizer called Clod Buster, liquid seaweed extract, and so on. 
She has been ordering books for us and has turned us on to the publica- 
tions of the Bio-Dynamic Association. These are people who make 
biological preparations for all sorts of jobs — compost inoculant, field 
spray which hastens decomposition of cover crops tu rned under for 
“green manure’, insect retardents, growth stimulating sprays, and so 
on. Some people are doubtful whether the preparations are more 
effective than regular organic methods, but the Bio-Dynamic people 
sure know alot about plants. Pamphlets and books are available from 
Bio-Dynamic Farming and GArdening Association, Stroubsburg, PA 
18360, Also a quarterly magazine. | have just bought Companion 
Plants and How to Use Them by Helen Philbrick and Richard Gregg, 
Devin-Adair, $4.75. This is about plant interaction, ecology in home 
gardening. Single stands of one plant are unknown in nature and 
have only come in with intensive farming, where man has usurped 
the land for his own selfish ends. He has paid for his arrogance. What _ 
we have to do now is work towards setting up ecological communities 
when we want to grow food plants. 
Sent by 
Mary Schooner 
San Francisco, CA 
