ome 
Diana, 
Some probably well-meaning fink stole the “Weird 
File” and has just mailed it to me under the misim- 
pression that the Realist would do a horrible expose 
of 
you all. 
But Steart Brand is a friend (even when the w is 
missing) and besides there’s nothing negative to re- 
view. 
I'll send back the stuff 
as soon as I find-a 
large enough envelope, having just moved... to the 
West Village in New York as the first step to mov- 
ing to the West Coast as soon as possible. 
by the way and incidentally, I fell in love with you 
after reading your response about the women’s lib 
misunderstanding, except that ideally there would 
be no separation so that, in bed, on some level of 
consciousness, your, uh, partner would be aware of 
your sparkling intellect, just as, in a conversation, 
he, or she, or whatever, would have the advantage 
of an extra dimension of sexuality to your ideas. 
this has been a cross-country sermonette. 
Paul Krassner 
™ 
Here are a few questions which may be answered by the 
use of the logarithmic spiral: 
1. Why 
is Pluto slightly out of line from the other 
planets? 
2 Suppose, 
hypothetically, that there are two more 
asteroid belts. Where would they be located? 
3. Why is the North Pole an ocean, and the South Pole 
a continent? 
4. Why have most great thinkers and cultures grown in 
the Northern Hemisphere? 
5. Why are the continents triangles which point south- 
ward? 
6. Why 
are older (Population |/) stars located towards 
the center of galaxies? 
f 
7. Why 
is iron magnetic? 
8. Why does the number seven recur throughout nature? 
9. Why do snowflakes have six sides? 
10. Why is water transparent? Why does it expand as it 
freezes? 
17. Why does it seem that everyone js going in different 
directions when everyone is actually going in the 
same one direction? 
72. In order to arrange a spirallic chart of the elements, 
which ones would you place on the periphery and 
which in the center: 
the heavy (radioactive) elements 
or the light elements? 
13. Why 
did science fail to detect the spiral until now? 
14. If our universe is expanding, what are the ones next 
to us doing? 
STAFF 
Dear WEC fans: 
We're getting tired of those regular 6¢ postage stamps. 
How about putting something special on? — Bernie 
Complaint to GEORGE who keeps on putting complaints 
in the completed orders box. — Bernie — not to mention 
the foreign subs., too! 
Upon opening the mail — don’t tear the pretty stamps. — 
Bernie 
Why am I the only one complaining? Everyone com- 
plains; no one argues with a wall, though. — Bernie 
_ No one seems to appreciate the gears in their watch. 
52 
-~ further corrections 
The Why not put us out of business even tho it 
may be illegal in some states and might get your 
local business community pissed off at us, you 
and yours Department 
1. A retail business license is cheap. 
2. Membership in the American Booksellers Association 
is $25 for the first year — you get a book of addresses 
of publisher/participants & the discounts offered and 
some other stuff that you'll find out about if you do 
It. 
3. Between 4—6 people you can come up with enough 
bread for an order to a company — since you have a 
retail license they’// sell to you — mostly at 20% to 
40% discount. 
4. You can apply this idea to other needed things (like 
at produce docks near big cities you can get incredible 
bargains on food if you buy in large enough quantities; 
20—30 people each with 5—10 dollars would be more 
than enough). 
And to those of you who are already in the book 
business: 
Does your mass distributor server 
Does your mass distributor serve your needs? 
Does he have what you want or would he rather stock a 
drug store? 
Does he give you 30% discount and charge extra for 
delivery? 
Why 
not order direct? 
Why not get what you want at 40% discount? 
Why do some firms refuse to fill orders from small book- 
stores? 
/t just doesn’t seem to comply with fair trade laws. 
We're tired of poor service at poor prices. 
What have your experiences been? 
Have you any suggestions or solutions to offer? 
Laura 
Buying wholesale is a thing lots of people can do IF it is 
gone about correctly. Wholesalers are interested in mak- 
ing a profit, as are retailers. Keep this in mind when ap- 
proaching a wholesaler. Show him how he can make 
money by selling to you.at wholesale (like, you‘l/ go else- 
where if he doesn’t). Often, a courtesy discount /s given 
to legitimate non-profit (that means recognized by the 
state and Federal tax men) organizations. Courtesy dis- 
counts are usually offered only by retail establishments. 
They sell to you at the wholesale price and often make 
no money on the transaction. 
Wholesalers are able to se/l at lower markups and stil] 
make money by keeping down bookwork and unneces- 
sary stock handling. That means they want to sell in 
quantity. So get your friends together and make up-as 
big a list as possible. And be prepared to pay cash. 
Don’t expect dealer service from wholesalers. You haven’t 
paid for it and if you ask for it, you probably won’t ever 
be able to buy wholesale there ar 
be able to buy wholesale there again. Don’t ask to exam- 
ine everything. They can’t afford to /et you. 
Some wholesalers will sell only to persons or firms having 
a resale tax license (State Board of Equalization in Calif- 
ornia). This usually requires posting a good sized bond 
($50 minimum) to assure that you will pay sales tax on 
everything you buy. These wholesalers don’t want the 
bookwork involved in sales tax, so they sell nothing that 
they will have to charge tax on. 
Often, after meeting all of the above basic requirements, 
you still can’t buy wholesale from some sources. At this 
point a “front” letterhead helps. Better get a city business 
license or DBA (Doing Business As) and stay out of trouble. 
These are usually free or cheap. 
Buying food wholesale is more difficult. Because the ae 
up is very low. Sometimes a store will give you a speacial 
Buying food wholesale is ve 
" 
Buying food wholesale is more difficult, because the mark- 
up is very low. Sometimes a store will give you a special 
price if you buy by the case. Or buy direct from the farmer 
at the same price you would pay in the store. Get fresher 
produce and let the grower have the profit. He needs it. 
Most of 
all, remember to show the wholesaler that he will 
make a profit by selling to you. That’s usually all you need. 
Fred 
_35 to 40% off audiotape, videotape, and records; and 10% 
Spring 1970 Catalog 
p.34 
Yearly rate is $3.00 (quarterly) or $5.00 for two years. 
Plants and Gardens 
from: 
Brooklyn Botanic Garden 
1000 Washington Avenue 
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11225 
Wind Mills 
Correct address: 
|
Airmotor 
Div. of Braden-Aermotor Corp. 
800 E. Dallas 
Broken Arrow, Oklahoma 74012 
p.98 
Teg’s 1994 
is available for 
$3.50 postpaid 
from: 
MediaMerchant 
McLuhanware 
34 Lambert Street 
Roxbury, Massachusetts 02119 
MediaMerchant specializes in Media Hardware and offers 
off on paperbacks, postpaid. 
Fall 1969 Catalog 
Thinking About Using Pot 
is now available (for $1.00 ) from: 
San Francisco Psychiatric Medical Clinic 
2633 E. 27th Street 
Oakland, CA 94601 
Worm Track 
° 
In the March $1 Catalog on p. 33 we printed an excerpt 
from a leaflet about worms from Mill Creek Ranch (in Noel, 
Missouri 64854). 
They‘ve since informed us that although 
the leaflet, Mighty Earthworm — Soil TNT!, /s sti// available 
for 25¢, they haven’t dealed worms since 1968. 
A list of worm breeders (compiled from the back pages 
of Organic Gardening and Farming: 
HILLAIRE, Northville, Michigan 48167 
BRAZOS BAIT FARMS, Rt. 9, Waco, Texas 76705 
ANDRE PEOPLES, R.D. #1, Lansdale, 
Pennsylvania 19446 
RICHARD’s WORM HATCHERY & RABBITRY, 
Box 168C, Parkin, Arkansas 72373 
SUNADA, Box 362, Parlier, California 93648 
' BRONWOOD WORM GARDENS, Bronwood, 
Georgia 31726 
7 
GEORGIA WORM FARMS, 
Dawson, Georgia 
31742 
