2) 
aaa 
| HAVE A PROBLEM. — 
Hi Keith, 
| have a problem and need some consultant help. 
| want to remove 
a concrete silo 45’ high and15’ in diameter. 
It is constructed with 
precast sections, 1°x2'x3-1/2", no reinforcement, with a tongue and 
groove on the sides. These sections are staggered up and down 1 inch 
to interlock them. Steel bands 3-1/2’'x 1/8" circle the tower cover- 
ing each joint and there are additional bands in the center of each 
panel for the first 15° of height. The bands are bolted in three sec- 
tions with 5/8” bolts. There are barns on two sides 25’ away. Also 
many windows that should remain intact. 
My first thought was to explosively cut the bolts working from the 
top down in about 10’ sections, allowing the tower to collapse 
around its base. 
| tried cutting 5/8" test bolts with five wraps of 50 
grain prima cord stacked pyramid fashion. 
| was able to neck the 
bolt down somewhat, but! could not cut it. 50 grain was the heavi- 
est prima cord | could get around here. 
What would you suggest? My current permit expires August 31. 
Fred 
— 1 HAVE A SOLUTION. 
Fred, 
Tower demolition is normally carried out by either piecemeal meth- 
Ods, as you proposed, or more commonly by felling. The latter, in 
the case of a round tower, involves either the progressive devel op- 
ment of a notch until it topples, or where directional Control is im- 
portant, the instantaneous undercutting of 200 degrees of arc leav- 
ing the remaining 160 degrees intact as ahinge. This is normally 
done by piercing the 200 degree sector so as to leave it supported on 
pillars which are then simultaneously destroyed. The reason for this 
is the normally high wall thickness to diameter ratio found in the 
base of chimneys etc., which requires the scattering of rather alot 
of material if the possibility of the thing being partially supported 
by the muck pile is to be avoided, and, much more important, if the 
possibility of the round ‘freezing’ is to be eliminated, the ‘compres- 
sion arch’ layout being particularly susceptible to this. 
In your case 
you are dealing with an annulus so this does not apply to the same 
extent. 
!t is essential that there be nothing left unbroken though 
that will not be broken or displaced by whatever fraction of the 
structure's 40 or so tons bears upon it. 
Where a structure is banded it is normal to remove the lower bands 
to assist breakage of the base. 
In your case this could not be done as 
the removal of the bands would be liable to collapse the structure 
without directional control. 
| take it that there is no lock on the top 
and bottom of each segment beyond that obtained by the staggering 
of the heights of the segments. You would have to use your judg- 
ment on the holding power of such an arrangement. 
You could then proceed by knocking one of the panels to pieces, 
{4 oz mudcap in middle) for access and to establish the charge for 
adequate breakage, followed by either the removal of a few more to 
make pillars or the immediate firing of a round calculated to leave an 
effective undercut (i.e. 28 panels the remaining 18 being left as the 
hinge). Mudcaps should do this OK but if you wanted to be fancy 
you could play the fool with hydraulic action, explosive in big poly 
bags of water or a lake inside the silo. Obviously you will have to 
remove at least one-band, equally obviously the more the better — 
SO LONG AS THE HINGE IS NOT THEREBY SO WEAKENED 
THAT IT COLLAPSES BY BUCKLING BEFORE THE THING HAS 
BEGUN TO TOPPLE. 
General principles of dropping such structures require that you meet 
at least one of two conditions. 
You must ensure when destroying a 
structure by removal of supporting parts THAT WHEN THE RE- 
MAINDER LIMITS ON ITS UNDAMAGED PORTION either it is in 
a negatively stable condition (e.g. C.G. outside base) or that it pos- 
sesses sufficient kinetic and potential energy to progressively destroy 
the stressed parts. Otherwise it will sit and look at you a few feet 
shorter than it was before and you will look, and feel, exceedingly 
foolish. 
ow’ 
HANDYMAN JACK 
Basically the Handyman Jack is a super heavy duty bumper 
jack but it bears no resemblence to the inadequate things 
that Detroit supplies with their inadequate automobiles. It 
weighs 28 pounds, has a capacity of 3 tons, is four feet tall, 
and has a lift of three feet. The jack-is guaranteed for 18 
months, and complete repair parts are available should they 
ever be required. 
I’ve used mine for lifting my truck, stretching shrunken plas- 
tic water pipe, and a number of odd lifting and spreading 
jobs, and wauldn’t part with it for anything. 
| paid about 
$28 for mine a couple of years ago; | don’t know what they 
might cost now. Sales and information can be had direct 
from the manufacturer: 
Harrah Manufacturing Company 
46 West Spring Street 
Bloomfield, Indiana 
[Suggested by Douglas Canning/ 
WARNING: Beware of handle, or EAT TEETH. 
To ensure the former you would need ta attack more than one level 
of panels, but you are limited on that by the need, particularly with 
pillar tactics, to avoid premature collapse, maintain the integrity of 
the hinge and limit the weight of explosive employed. 
|t would likely 
be better to take positive action to disrupt the bridgeing action of the 
segments over the next three levels to ensure progression of the col- 
lapse. 
ea EXPLOSIVE 
HOLLOW 
EXPLOSIVE 
@ 
y\ LIGHT ANGL- 
THIN LAYER 
OF EXPLOSIVE 
AROUND GoLT 
HOLD WITH 
TAPE 
Seer ee 
L 
A Gor 
St Ae 
Ee 
ey 
y, rates. uae ee 
INSTAN TANE 605 
SHOCK WAVE 
REFLECTED 
~\) \A iff iG 
N 
RESO a} 
S7Ts 7 
Bat 
EXPLOSIVE 
ONE 
SIDE 
THOCK WAVES 
op AUT 
. 
INTERACT 
CAP 
BAERS 
SR eR 
To cut the bolts you would need ca. 6 oz charge distributed to cause 
sheer (fig. 1) or you could experiment with a shaped charge (figs. 2 
& 3) or ‘diamond charge’ tactics (fig. 4) or attack the heads or nuts 
(fig. 5). Bear in mind that the segments are locked together and 
would not just fall off, requiring possibly difficult and hazardous 
‘scaling’ operations to displace them. 
Concerning air blast, you are primarily concerned with the ‘scaled 
distance’. This gives you the overpressure at any distance from any 
charge given the weight employed and the explosive relation to TNT 
by inspection from tables published in many books. The scaled dis- 
tance is found from the formula: 
Scaled Distance = D/W 
(D — distance in feet) 
(W — weight in pounds) 
You will be concerned with threshold of damage to windows and ears 
for which the following abstracts should serve: 
Threshold Damage to 
Overpressure 
Scaled Distance (sea level) 
psi 
ft/lb 
Windows 
1.0 
50 
Ears (reflected) 
2.3 
30 
Ears (direct) 
5.0 
20 
Thus for a one pount TNT charge you need to be 50’ from the near- 
est window, for a two pound, only 64’. Allow 20% extra on the 
weight for the higher velocity nitroglycerine based and for PETN. 
Seaanenecse 
JACK 
No. 30 Model 
=e 
) 
-~—w @w: 
— 
The position is complicated 
by the effect of reflection. Where this 
occurs the overpressure 
is locally amplified, often dramatically. 
Thus 
if you stand a few inches from a reflecting surface normal to the in- 
* 
cident wave you will experience ca. 210% of the incident overpressure 
from a plane surface. Where it is in any sense concave the amplifica- 
tion may be very considerably higher, in the example given in Fig. 6 
the incident wave was measured at (1) at 17 psi, the reflected at (2) 
at 700 psi. DON’T SHELTER IN RE-ENTRANT ANGLES!!! 
© 
As you will gather from this you have little worry regarding windows 
with any charge you are likely to want to use for bolt cutting. You 
_can further minimise risks by opening windows, and claims by care- 
ful examination for cracked panes BEFORE blasting, Further, shock 
waves are quite directional, at close quarters highly so, so if the near- 
est sensitive area is appreciably out of line the overpressure will be 
greatly reduced. The attenuation round an obstacle is so great that 
you could probably quite cheerfully fire 50 Ibs on one side of your 
silo without worrying about a window on the other. 
Mud packing or surface charging in general, it is well to take care to 
use the ‘detonation Head’ to best advantage. This is the only useful- 
ly used explosive in such charges, and should be maximised for eco- 
nomic and noise reasons. The best example of this is to consider sticks 
of explosive end on to a metal target. As the length is increased at 
first the dent depth increases, then, when the length reaches between 
two and three column diameters, remains constant. 
In the diagram 
below the dark shaded cone is the only part which is usefully em- 
ployed and this is borne out by the fact that a cone of that shape 
produces an almost identical crater. The moral of all which is that 
it may pay to recartridge or use without wrapper and mould to an 
efficient shape and will certainly pay to take care to position the cap 
so as to get the maximum explosive between the point of initiation 
and the target. 
cap 
TARGET 
TARGET 
N.B. Don’t get nitro on skin — wear gloves. 
N. very B. Ensure good contact between explosives and target. One 
layer of paper equals approximately 20% loss in efficiency. 
Keith 
England 
(| hope to attempt the silo before the end of August. Results 
and maybe pictures in next sup. — Fred) 
; 
“—"@ 
Viny! Cements 
| have been developing a portable, collapsible, insulated 
shelter in which | have been using a nylon reinforced 
vinyl requiring a suitable adhesive. 
| would like to advise the person who refers to himself as 
the ‘Virginian’ in Pax River, Maryland that Bostik Adhe- 
sive Specialists, a subsidiary of USM Corp. in Middleton, 
Mass., produces an excellent adhesive for vinyl. It is re- 
ferred to as 4067 a nitrile rubber base adhesive and 7130, 
a synthetic resin base. Both are excellent and are often 
used industrially for vinyl inflatables. 
James W. Smith 
Providence, R.1. 
