G Item-related Information 
i Ferro Cement 
p. 94 
im enclosing photo copy of a house i think can be built (but 
the people who drew it, Mobay Chem. Co., now says it cant 
be done i think it can) and address for info. about ferro hull 
boats from Popular Science /Sept. 1969 issue]: 
Where to get more information 
on ferro-cement boats 
Robert Bruce Associates, Coconut Grove, Fla. 33133 
Lionel Eubanks, Naval Architect, 1400 Broadway, 
Blue Island, Ill. 60406 
E-V Associates, Inc. Subs. of Allied General, Inc., 
261 S.W. 6 St., Miami, Fla. 33130 
Fibersteel Co., P.O. Box 661, West Sacramento, 
Calif. 95691 
Portland Cement Association, Old Orchard Road, 
Skokie, I 11. 60076 
Samson Marine Design Enterprises, Ltd., P.O. Box 
98, Ladner, B.C., Can. 
Seaferro Inc., 2455 E. Sunrise Blvd., Ft. Lauderdale, 
Fla. 33304 
Windboats, Ltd., Wroxham, Norwich, Norfolk, NOR 
032, England 
Louis Guinchard, Jr. 
Bronx, New York 
p- 36 
Clyde Robins now offers a “Survival Garden“ < especially 
long lifed seeds vacuum-sealed in a can for use in emergen- 
cies, etc. 
The catalog description: 
After special treatment to prolong their life and their 
power to germinate with vigor, these superior seeds were 
— 
immediately deposited in this sanitary container. Here their 
added vigor remains and their life span is greatly increased 
as they lie unmolested, figuratively, “Out of This World,” 
ready to produce abundantly when the can is opened. 
Seeds sealed by our method have been found very good 
after more than ten years. Our experience with them only 
goes this far. 
Sealed in this container are: 
4 oz. Beans 
4 oz. Peas 
1-1/4 oz. Beets 
1/2 oz. Spinach 
1/2 oz. Cabbage 
1/2 oz. Squash 
1/2 oz. Carrot 
1/8 oz. Eastern Tomato 
4 oz. Corn 
1/8 oz. Western Tomato 
1/2 oz. Onion 
Complete instructions for planting are included. 
Vegetables for Survival 
Enough seed to feed a small colony the essential vege- 
tables for survival are contained in this can. 
_.. Shipped anywhere in the United States... $3.25 
from: 
Clyde Robin 
P.O. Box 2091 
Castro Valley, CA 94546 
p.38 
| bought an Ashley 23-C on the recommendation of the Whole 
Earth Catalog. 
It was a disappointment because the top never 
fit down right and let heat out. Also there were many casting 
flaws and cracks around the edge of the top. 
Ashley Breakdown 
A friend of mine recently showed me an exchange of letters 
in the January Whole Earth Catalog r.e, a defective Ashley 
heater. My heater is usable-and I’m using it — but ‘it wasn’t 
as good as it was reputed to be. 
J. Kessel 
Canyon, CA. 
In the beginning of January, 1970 | came into the store and 
purchased an Ash/ey Wood Burning Stove, Model 25 cf. Now, 
approximately 3 months later | must report that the stove is 
“falling apart.” 
The Stove’s “thermostatic contro!” totally fails to do the job 
it was billed to do in the Fall ’69 catalog, and in the literature 
that accompanied the stove. Sometimes the ‘‘thermostatic 
control”’ opens properly and then never closes. Sometimes 
the vent never opens and must be manipulated by hand under 
the metal covering. As it stands now there is no effective 
temperature control on the stove. 
The small, thin asbestos strips that line the mouth of the door 
have fallen off and | must place them in their spot by hand 
and then shut the door carefully making sure they are in place. 
The stove came with no comprehensive instructions as to con- 
struction. There were different sizes of screws and | had to 
guess as to which went where. 
| bought the stove solely on the recommendation of the Whole 
Earth Catalog. As it stands now, | do not and will not recom- 
mend the Ashley Stove to anyone. 
I’m afraid | now look at the March Catalog with a lot more 
skepticism. 
Edward B. Glazer 
Felton, CA 
ASHLEY STOVE WARNING 
The Ashley Stove instruction booklets say to burn semi-green logs un- 
split. 
In B.C. the most predominate firewood is alder. 
If you burn 
green hardwood, such as alder, you will have, eventually, a chimney 
or stack fire due to the buildup of creosote-type mung deposited by 
the green-wood smoke. Your stove or heater will also become coated 
inside with it. 
Corky Evans 
Cobble Hill, B.C. 
Ashley Stove rep visited Whole Earth and says they have a draft equal- 
izer to prevent this. 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
accaas to fools 
Spring 1970 
$3 
a> 
p.97 
1. 
Begin by assuming a “ready position’ far enough from your 
opponent so that an attack from him will not catch you by 
surprise. 
2. 
The object of “’Boffing” is to hit the person facing you any- 
where on the body above a line drawn horizontally around his 
or her waist at hip bone level. To avoid undue irritation of the 
opponent, make this an imaginary line. |f possible, shun being 
struck yourself. 
ref 
All hits should arrive with an audible pop. Not a tick or a thud- 
ding sound, but a pop that can be heard. 
It is not a requirement 
that they sound like a field gun. 
4. 
Hits are best made laterally with the tip ten inches of the ‘‘bof- 
fer."’ To delineate this section a wide rubber band may be ap- 
plied. 
5. | Assoon as you or your adversary has been hit or if there is 
reason to believe a hit has been made, play should be suspend- 
ed and dialog begun in an effort to determine what did happen. 
6. 
All hits, on arrival should be promptly acknowledged aloud. ‘1 
am hit’’ or its equivalent is correct and proper. 
If your partner 
does not do so, remind him or her of this rule. 
Boffing Rules 
7 
Thrusts with the point are invalid. They do not produce a pop- 
ping sound and they are hard on the shaft. We consider them a 
conspiratorial and illegal act. 
8. 
Sometimes both players are hit. In such cases only the one ar- 
riving audibly first is scored. When_no audible difference in 
time can be detected, one point ig scored against each. 
9. 
Hits arriving on the mitt or armed hand are not counted. Those 
on the unarmed hand do count and it is well to keep yours out 
of the way. On the left hip is a good place if you are right~ 
handed. 
10. 
Games may be ‘‘Boffed” to 5, 7, 11, or 21 depending on your 
inclination or endurance. Games to 100 are frowned upon if 
One or more players are over 90. 
11. 
The sharp lower edge of the ‘‘Boffer”’ is the parrying section. 
It is preferable to present this edge (when parrying) to your 
opponent's incoming weapon. A parried hit can thus be dis- 
tinguished from a valid hit by its dull thudding sound. 
12. 
A knuckle guard, goggles and ear protectors are furnished. 
If 
you “‘Boff’’ without them you will be sorry. They are included 
to keep you from getting your ears knocked off. 
Sincerely —— the management 
Jack Nottingham 
The lonized Ski Pole & 
Old Fashioned Product Mfg. Co. 
190 Emmet Ct. 
San Francisco, CA 94110 
Boffer Gripe 
It is a criminal act to sell Boffers for eleven dollars. Every- 
one needs them; not everyone can afford to buy a set each 
month. 
It’s fine if you want to be Free Enterprise, Vast 
Profits, and Capitalist Pig, but you don’t have to carry The 
American Way to an extreme and produce shoddy merchan- 
dise as well. 
Boffers break. They have, in ten days at our school (which 
houses a small and only normally aggressive population), 
broken off to swords only half the original size, the handles 
have chipped and cracked to the point where they are being 
held together by masking tape, and we are distraught be- 
cause we now perceive no way for our school to continue 
without Boffers; they have become indispensable. 
It is just 
plain NO FAIR 
to make indispensable tools that are not 
durable and/or cheap. 
Sara Miles 
Blauvelt, N.Y. 
J eSeoer. 
‘ 
Procion Dyes Revisited; Go Elsewhere Pp. 43 
| had used your catalog as a source finder for dyes and came across 
Mr. Glen Black’s name as a place (person) where | could get Procion 
dye used in dyeing cloth. | called Mr. Black on the phone and asked 
him what it would cost me to purchase 8 Ibs of dye from him for our 
store. 
He told me the price would be the list price of $.75 per ounce. 
When | asked if there was any way that we could get a trade discount 
he replied that there wasn’t. 
| thought this was a little strange not al- 
lowing a discount on quantity but since | was completely naive as to 
the dye industry and its ways | ordered the dye at Mr. Black's prices 
only to find out that there were many other places that dye could be 
bought cheaper. 
| have now ordered the dye from the manufacturer 
and hope to sell it much more cheaply than the $.75 per ounce price. 
[Manufacturer's address: 
I.C.I. Organics, Inc. 
55 Canal Street 
Providence, R.I. 02901 
Inquire for prices. ] 
Dale Sidebottom 
Whole Earth Access Co. 
Berkeley, CA 
¢ Spring 1970 CATALOG ° 
