SAWDUST HEATER 
Here’s an idea for using sawdust as heating fuel in a home 
stove. Presently vast quantities of sawdust are burned off 
as waste by lumbering and sawmill operations. Smoke from 
inefficient combustion of sawdust creates L.A.-like condi- 
tions in places like the Willamette valley in Oregon. 
The stove can be any one of a number of different varieties 
of stove presently available, but one that loads fuel from the 
top is best. 
The arrangement looks like this 
PLENTY OF 
Room AT THE 
TOP OF THE CAN 
SAWOUST “DONUT” 
IN A GAWON 
CAN, 
FIRE BORNS 
HERE IN 
DONUT BOLE 
WIDE 
SPACE 
GRATING 
SO ASHES CAN PASS 
FREELY 
OUT 
OF PATH 
OF 
DRAVGHT 
Fuel “loads” for the stove can be made very easily in a gal- 
lon (or larger) can with both ends cut out. 
Fill the can on 
a level surface with a 3” pipe or stick down the center of the 
can, and press the sawdust into the can tightly enough so 
that the center pipe can be removed and the can and saw- 
dust can be lifted without all the sawdust falling out. Can 
and sawdust go right into the stove and can be lit with a lit- 
tle kindling or starter in the center. The cans are reusable, 
of course. 
I’ve seen the idea at work in 
Afghanistan. One can of saw- 
dust burns for an hour or two 
and puts out a hell of a lot of 
heat. 
Lindsay Haisley 
Santa Cruz, CA 
gona 
Potters’ Wheels, continued... 
Despite the hysteria and name-calling, Mary. Ann Gehan is 
right about including the K/opfenstein wheel. 
| did not men- 
tion it at first because in my judgement the So/dner Flywheel 
type is in general use all over the country while the use of the 
Klopfenstein treadle type is only taught in a few schools in 
Michigan and Ohio where Mary Ann and | happened to start 
working. 
It’s a beautiful tool. I’ve had one for five years but now use 
it mainly as a kind of spinning easel for decorating and brush 
glazing. The reason is the Brent model C which I've used for 
8 months and which | feel is a significant break through in 
power wheel design and price. It is quiet, compact, provides 
full power at low speeds, very smooth speed change and, with 
a more powerful motor option, is capable of doing this with 
any amount of clay. 
Jeff Schlanger 
New Rochelle, N.Y. 
A Canadian Loom 
| was dismayed to read in your March supplement about 
the unhappy experience of Kar! Smiley in his search for 
a loom; and | thought some information about a loom de- 
signed and made in Vancouver might be of help to him and 
some of your other readers. The maker of the loom is 
H.C. Harris, of North Vancouver, B.C., Canada, and the 
looms can be ordered from Handcraft House, 110 West 
Esplanade, North Vancouver. The table model, 22 inch, 
4 harness, sells for $55.00; and a treadle version of the 
same loom costs $85.00. Anyone living out of Vancouver 
would have to add shipping costs which | have been ad- 
vised would not exceed $10.00, and persons living in the 
U.S.A. would have to find out about customs, but even 
with these added costs the loom is a bargain, sturdy, at- 
tractive and well designed. 
Jean Mallinson 
West Vancouver, B.C. 
‘Cin 
“Meat” from Wheat 
Have you ever published a recipe for home-made wheat gluten? This 
is a basic meat substitute and very easy to make, forming the basis of 
many of the commercially produced, canned substitutes, notably 
Worthington and Loma Linda vegeburger, vegetable skallops, dinner 
cuts, vege-cuts, etc. 
Mix 2% to 3 cups of water with 8 cups of flour (gluten flour is easi- 
est, but ordinary white flour will do), enough to make a firm ball. 
Soak under water overnight. The next day, keep kneading the dough 
under water and pouring off the starchy liquid, replacing with fresh 
cold (tap) water until water is clear during kneading (no more starch — 
this is where gluten flour was nice). You now have Wheat Gluten (the 
protein of flour) in the form of a large? rubbery ball. 
For eating, slice into thin steak size, roll in batter, and grill or fry; 
chop into fine pieces and use in stews; or put through meat grinder 
and vou have vege-burger, which can be used in many of the same 
ways as hamburger (ground beef). 
As the gluten is tasteless, much like a hunk of sponge, disguises are 
necessary. Yeast extract, soya sauce, vegetable salts, wines, and, in 
general, anything you can think of, improve flavor considerably. 
(Perhaps you can find someone to tell you about preparing tofu as 
well.) 
; 
Some of the commercial meat substitutes are quite nice. Of the 
American firms, Worthington is most tasteful and innovative, making 
such concoctions as Wham, Chickenette, and Turkette (these are 
sold frozen in long sausage-like rolls or blocks). One may object to 
the idea of imitating meat, even to the extent of naming one’s non- 
meat products after it, but squash your objections and enjoy the 
pleasant texture and taste, remembering that for the money you're 
getting very high protein (as high as in meat), no animal fats or prod- 
ucts, no bones — just good, healthy things. 
Some of these products may be hard to find, even in health food 
stores, so try to locate the local sales person if you can. You might 
also try finding a nearby Seventh-day Adventist church, as they seem 
to know where to buy meat substitutes as cheaply as they can be ob- 
tained anywhere. 
One of the contributors to your March Catalog mentioned a good 
vegetarian cookery book by the Seventh-day Adventists. 
| obtained 
one called An Apple a Day, put out by the Women’s Auxiliary of 
the Loma Linda University Medical School [in Loma Linda, CA 
92354]. Selling for $4, it contains nearly 300 pages of mostly easy- 
to-follow vegetarian recipes, many utilizing the commercial meat 
substitutes. Others use grains and nuts. There are recipes for all 
types of food and a section of tasty foreign recipes is included. 
It's an absolute godsend for those who have decided to go vegetarian 
but don't know how to cook without using meat and aren't sure of 
obtaining the necessary nutrients and food values when they leave 
out meat. 
Of course, when one perfects the gluten technique, one 
can substitute that for the canned goods. 
Ann Liston 
Burnaby, B.C. 
Canada 
Bean Sprouts (Again?), Bicycles and More 
Hear that over-watering the beans Jeads to problems, and quality of 
water is important. 
In prison camp (Nipponese-type) some unsung genius built a Whole 
Earth-type bean sprouter that worked like the whole earth. Simple, 
too. 
If youve been having trouble with water control, try this. 
The device consists of three parts: 
a tank for the water; a rack for 
the frames, and the frames. 
Decide how big your frames are to be 
and proceed accordingly. 
Frames. Make these of light wood, perhaps 1 foot wide by 2 feet 
long. Tack gunny sacking, or similar coarse cloth to one edge (1 foot 
dimension), bring it back around the other edge, tack again, and flop 
it down over the front. Now tack or staple the bottom section of 
cloth to both edges, stretching it fairly tight. This makes the surface 
on which the beans are placed. Dimensions of the overhang depend 
on position of frame in rack. 
Rack. The rack is three-sided, and large enough to accept the frames. 
The frames slide into the rack, and should be spaced about 1 inch 
apart, vertically. 
Tank. This is the basis for the rig, and either must be big enough to 
accept the rack, or you pick the tank, and build the others to fit. The 
tank can be a large plastic dishpan, or anything similar. 
Overhang. The cloth that hangs over the front of each frame should 
be long enough to reach well into the plastic dishpan; for convenience, 
cut each long enough to reach the bottom of the tank with a couple 
of inches left over. 
Use. Set the rack in the pan, and pour in enough spring water (or 
local equivalent, something without too much chemical contént) to 
fill the tank about one-third to one-half full. Wet the cloth of the 
first frame and put the beans on the lower portion, bringing the upper 
portion over the beans. 
Slide this into the rack so the overhang of 
the cloth dips in the water. 
The rest of the frames are handled the 
same way. 
Keep the whole rig in a warm dark closet, checkiag sprout 
growth after a few days. 
If you don’t have a spare dark closet, the 
frarme must be covered to prevent breezes. 
Notes. Works with any kind of beans, and food content is increased 
by sprouting. 
|f the sprouts get too old, they are tough, and need 
more cooking. Capillary action provides the correct amount of mois- 
ture for sprouting. Water quality will influence flavor. 
Diane Di Prime (March) offered some survival hints. A tool to con- 
sider for cooking on the hibachi is a wok, probably the most sophisti- 
cated cooking tool ever made. 
(Generally, Chinese tool design, like 
Japanese, represents sophisticated usage of low-technology materials.) 
Don’t buy stainless steel, tourist-type wok. Do buy wok to fit your 
hibachi, your round hibachi. 
You can cook anything in a wok on a minimum of fuel. And when 
you take the wok off the fire, the food stops cooking, as it should. 
Chinese-style cooking helps beat the organization, and generally has 
higher food value, if you must have cooked food. 
Re: Hibachi. 
|t would be interesting to know the relative efficiency 
or cost-effectiveness, of the hibachi. Charcoal is great for the survival 
of the city dweller, providing good circulation is maintained in the 
room, but it is an urban-available fuel in this country. And the qual- 
ity is extremely variable. 
Bicycles. Add to your bicycle note: 
Raleigh, world’s largest manu- 
facturer of such devices, produces a fine quality, for dollars, machine 
at $85, the Grand Prix. Reasonably light, quality superior to most in 
that range, and frames from 19-1/2 up to 24-1/2 in. 
Do you need more information on choice of bike, etc.? 
| can supply; 
it is not too easy to come by and few retailers are that much interest- 
ed (exception, Velo-Sport, Berkeley). 
The Grand Prix doesn’t come with sew-on “tubular” tires. They are 
a damned nuisance (even though much more efficient in terms of 
rolling friction) when you have a flat. 
It takes skill and experience to 
repair a flat. 
Could we get Ronald Clean to ban cars for one Sunday each month? 
Best anti-smog, anti-mortician device (bicycle) would then come into 
its own. 
Dog Shit. What do your readers do about dog shit? After years of 
spading up the yard and burying the damned stuff, | finally built a 
“digester’’. This handles the shit output of a small, 4-legged, fur- 
bearing insect my wife calls a canine, and the output of a 70-pound, 
dwarf-style German shepherd at a cost of about $0.01/day for chemi- 
cal. 
Fly-free, practically odorless, and simple. And returns nutrients 
to the soil, where they belong. 
Jerry Lundquist 
Fremont, CA 
Merck Manual 
Thanks for returning my check and the note about the 
Merck Manual publishers. The funny thing is that I've dis- 
covered the book is being sold right here on the University 
of Oregon campus, at the University Co-op Bookstore. Fig- 
ure that one out.... 
; 
Anyway, the Co-op does accept mail orders, so it might be 
a piece of information worth passing on to your readers. 
The address is: 
University Co-op Store 
895 East 13th Avenue 
Eugene, Oregon 97403 
Bob Morris 
University of Oregon 
Eugene, Oregon 
bs 
