(O 
Life G ~ AR 
OY 
Xr 
| 
On Home Deliveries 
Recent letters in the Whole Earth writings concerning home 
childbirth have indicated some problems. 
| can see that you 
could easily become deluged with umpteen stories of wonder- 
ful home deliveries and umpteen of disaster and near catas- 
trophe. 
I'd like to pull this together from our experience. 
The situation seems to be this: 
In a small percent of preg- 
nancies serious complications exist; in a small percent of 
pregnancies serious complications will occur even when a 
competent experienced doctor or midwife predicts an en- 
tirely uncomplicated birth (sometimes a predicted complica- 
tion does not occur as well). 1f complications are predicted 
by an experienced person honestly (and sometimes it is hard 
to find an honest doctor) it would seem best to go where these 
complications can-best be handled (hospital or maternity 
home) at a loss of the best emotional situation. 
In any case 
it would seem best to have good prenatal care if at all pos- 
sible. 
If no complications are predicted a woman can decide, 
knowing there are hazards, if she wants to take the risk of a 
home delivery with or without professional help. The fact 
that Agnes bled to death at home and Annie had a marvelous 
delivery aren’t immediately applicable to you. 
In the Nether- 
lands half the deliveries are done at home with a good visiting 
nurse system; their mortality rate is among the best in the 
world (better than USA). 
Areas where interest is high might consider setting up mater- 
nity residences near or in a town with a hospital in case of 
serious problems during labor. Such essentials as good nu- 
trition could also be taught there. A sympatico visiting nurse- 
midwife would be a blessing for all. The extreme situations 
such as gross hemorrhage in which total blood loss occurs over 
a period of minutes aren’t handled very well no matter where 
you are but a hospital is better. Fortunately this is infrequent. 
When we delivered our children together without professional 
aid (oldest is eleven now) we did so knowing of the hazards 
and possible disaster; death of mother, child or both at the 
worst. We had a good obstetrician (though a good general 
practitioner would be fine) who did prenatal care and an- 
swered our questions about possible difficulties. Since we 
lived about 30 miles from the nearest hospital we rented a 
small house in the town the hospital was in for the due month; 
we could drive to the rented house when the labor began (how- 
ever because of a fast labor our third child was born ina VW 
sedan in freezing weather in the middle of the night! This-led 
to finding out that VW offers money prizes, for the advertis- 
ing value no doubt, to people who deliver in a VW; we con- 
sidered setting up a microbus midwife service that would be 
financed by VW; don’t know what their present policy is on 
this!). Having someone with midwife experience available is 
quite desirable especially for things like getting the placenta 
out. 
Amateur home delivery should not be taken lightly. 
If you 
know the risks and are willing to risk it, it can be, as it was for 
us, a fantastically beautiful experience fora II (in a certain 
percentage of cases it will be a disaster however). By the way, 
at the time we would have gone to a hospital or maternity 
home where we could be together or had a doctor do the 
home delivery; none of this was as available than as it is now. 
Hospitais are still emotionally sterile places. The best short 
description of normal birth I’ve seen is in Johnson & Johnson’s 
first aid book under ‘‘Emergency Childbirth”, it is not very 
long but straightforward; it doesn’t cover technical details of 
what an inexperienced woman may expect in labor. 
John K. Green (& Iris) 
Boulder, Colorado 
e — 
@e— e 
Hop to 
it 
Did you know that beer is excellent for lactating mothers? 
It’s the B vitamins in the yeast. 
: 
Barbara Kirshenblatt-Gimblett 
Bloomington, Indiana 
-@— 
Adoption 
ss 
Here’s to disagree with Dr. T. R. Calaman (“Yikes’’, pg. 44 
January). We have just adopted a baby through Children’s 
Friend and Service, a private agency in Providence, Rhode 
Island. Our “altruism’’ was welcomed by the agency — we 
adopted a “hard to place” child. We are unable to prove 
sterility and our religious affiliations are most tenuous (we 
were married by a minister). Our home study was short 
and pleasant. 
We now have friends with born-to-them children who have 
adopted either out of altruism, concern over population, or 
desire for achild of a specific sex. 
It does not seem to be 
difficult to do in Rhode Island, at least through this agency. 
Judy & Phil Richardson 
Saunderstown, R.1I. 
Questions and Answers 
on Voluntary Sterilization 
For Men and Women 
WHAT IS STERILIZATION? 
It is surgical conception control — the most reliable means of 
birth control known today. 
For a woman the procedure, called salpingectomy, usually 
means that a small abdominal incision is made and the 
tubes are cut and tied off. This prevents the meeting of 
the sperm and the ovum (the egg) without which no con- 
ception can occur. The cutting and tying off of the tubes 
may also be done by the vaginal approach. The female 
operation is always performed in a hospital. 
For a man the procedure, called vasectomy, involves only 
the closing of a small tube on each side — the vas deferens 
— which carries the sperm. A % to %-inch incision is made 
in each side of the scrotum so that the tube can be lifted 
out, cut and tied off, thus blocking the passage of sperm. 
The testicle continues to form sperm which is then ab- 
sorbed in the body. Usually, this minor operation is per- 
formed in the doctor’s office under local anesthesia. 
Is sterilization permanent, or may an operation undo its ef- 
fects, and restore fertility? 
The operation is ordinarily performed as a permanent mea- 
sure and should not be considered ‘unless the parents are 
sure they want no more children. Continuing research is 
improving the techniques for surgical restoration of fertility 
(reversal), but a successful reversal cannot be assured in any 
individual case. 
Is sterilization the same as castration? 
No. Castration involves the removal of the reproductive 
glands (the ovaries in the female, the testicles in the male). 
Sterilization does not involve the removal of any glands 
or organs. It merely closes the passageways which normal- 
ly allow the sperm and ovum to meet. 
Will sterilization make a man impotent, prevent him from en- 
joying sex, or cause any change in his health? 
No. Vasectomy does not change a man’s ability to have 
an erection or ejaculation. The same amount of semen 
may be ejaculated as before the operation, but it contains 
no sperm. There is no change in the production of the 
male sex hormone. 
Will sterilization produce symptoms of the menopause (change 
_ 
of life) in a woman? 
No. It does not interfere with menstruation. 
Will it make a woman less feminine? 
No. Characteristics of femininity are controlled by the 
hormones of the ovaries. Sterilization does not upset the 
production of these hormones. 
It merely prevents the egg 
from reaching the uterus. 
Will sterilization make a woman frigid? 
No. A woman’s responsiveness depends mainly on the ac- 
tion of hormones, which are not affected by sterilization, 
and on psychological factors. With the fear of pregnancy 
removed, frequently sexual response is increased. 
How much will a sterilization operation cost? 
Charges vary according to such factors as hospital arrange- 
ment; type of operation performed; coverage, if any, by 
; 
an insurance plan. Costs for the female are normally high- 
/
er than those for the male. 
In certain cases of proven need, when no other means are 
available, AVS may help with the expenses of the steriliza- 
tion, or refer the patient to a physician who will do it with- 
out charge. The federal-state Medicaid program and Blue 
Cross-Blue Shield now pay for the operation in most states. 
Can a woman be sterilized soon after delivery? 
Yes — in fact, this is the best time: 
it is common practice 
to close the tubes 12 to 48 hours after the baby is born. 
This does not materially lengthen her convalescence and 
makes another hospitalization at a later date unnecessary. 
The operation is also technically easier at this time. 
Can a woman be sterilized at the time of other abdominal 
operations? 
This is possible if there is no inflammation or other con- 
dition present which makes the closing of the tubes inad- 
visable. 
Cana man be sterilized at the time of other operations? 
Yes, with some types of operations. For example, if he 
needs a hernia repair, a vasectomy may. very easily be done 
at the same time. 
How long will a patient be inactive? 
Usually not more than a week for a woman, and about 
one or two days for a man. 
WHO SHOULD BE STERILIZED, THE MAN OR THE 
WOMAN? 
That depends on the individual family situation. 
Sterili- 
zation of the male is the simpler operation, but this should 
not be the only determining factor. The physical, mental 
and emotional condition of the man and the woman, the 
stability of the relationship, family histories, and other 
factors should be considered carefully and discussed with 
the physician or other counsellor. 
Vasectomy, the operation for a man, may be preferred when— 
® 
the simplest, least expensive method is wanted; 
© 
the woman’s health would be endangered by any oper- 
ation, even sterilization; 
® 
policies at available hospitals make no provision for 
voluntary sterilization.. (Vasectomy can be an office 
procedure and thus independent of hospital policy.) 
CAN ANY DOCTOR PERFORM STERILIZATION? 
It is advisable to choose a physician experienced in per- 
forming the operation. 
: 
from: 
Association For Voluntary, 
Sterilization, Inc. 
14 West 40th Street 
New York, New York 10018 
