World Game Note 
There’s something funny going on round here. 
Right in the middle of the March one dollar issue is Gene Youngblood’s 
article on Fuller’s World Game. 
It's exciting, inspiring even. Here are 
all these guys with all the best intentions about to wire up the globe 
so that by the year 2000 (if not sooner) everybody will have enough 
of everything. He really makes you feel like it’s within reach, once we 
get off the merry-go-round of local politics. Though NASA has prom- 
ised $12 million, how much more will Fuller get when the feds discover 
that he really intends to put them out of business? 
Anyway, once the world is all wired up, everybody will live at least as 
well as we do now. All the people, that is. 
Right at the end of Youngblood’s piece you slip into the Ecology sec- 
tion. The first thing to hit my eye was the quote from Lynn White, 
"The victory of Christianity over paganism was the greatest psychic 
revolution in the history of our culture... Christianity ... not only 
established a dualism of man and nature but also insisted that it is 
God's will that man exploit nature for his proper ends. 
. .”’ 
But what do you call wiring up the earth? Far out. Maybe Fuller is 
the first of the really big Christians. 
Are we to total Whole Earth technocrats, insuring only our own 
survival? 
(If you read closely you will note that Youngblood — like 
Fuller — talks about minerals and such, and makes no mention of 
organic things except what people can eat.) 
Or are we to be Ecology Action pagans, trying to scramble back toa 
sense of union with the planet that created us? 
The ecology people say we gotta change our whole culture, or we 
won't survive. The Fuller people say we've only got to make our 
culture really efficient not only to-survive but to get a whole lot 
better. 
You know, the problem goes a lot deeper than just, will we survive, 
and how? No doubt we can with Fuller mold and shape and wire the 
earth toward the compleate human habitation. We will change and 
even destroy a lot of things, but Fuller believes we have the thrust of 
evolution on our side, and that people are really alot more important 
than the brown pelican (to use an unfair example). 
ey 
But it’s not just a matter of “Christian American saying can’t. | need 
the money.” Money really isn’t important, especially in America. 
How much did we spend just to have a couple of guys walk on the 
moon, for ‘‘the spirit of exploration”, for ‘‘national prestige’? How 
much do we pump daily into Vietnam, for “the defense of democracy”’, 
even as we search for ‘‘an honorable peace’? We struggle and fight 
for abstract ideas, and the money really doesn’t matter. 
Now Fuller obviously has the best technique for survival, given the 
human desire to avoid changing basic ideas. 
Fuller isa catalogue of 
1700 years of Christian ideas. Up against this, the ecology freaks 
really have no chance, because all they are talking about is survival, 
too. 
But ecology really demands another psychic revolution. 
Like you say, 
aholy war. We need to believe we are one with the whole earth. And 
not just to survive, but because we really are. And that means, at 
least in the beginning, a new religion, a new faith. 
* 
Only through belief do you really change people’s heads. And right 
now we believe in rationalism, in the technical methcd, in the validity 
of abstract numbers. Even the piece about the sacred earthworm is 
full of the scientific things earthworms are and do, like 30 tons of 
this, 1800 species of that, 15 years of something else. 
Somewhere | read an old Chinese parable about a farmer who refused 
to take the technologic step of making a waterwheel to water his crops, 
even though he knew how. The rhythms and cycles of his life were the 
important things. He would not, he said, subject his body to a machine 
merely for the gain of efficiency. 
In medieval China this was the high- 
est wisdom. 
The distance between that view of life and our own is almost unbridg- 
able, but it is that step ecology asks us to make. Can we make it? In 
thirty years? 
So you have an answer? | don’t. I'm afraid we had better light our 
candles to St. Buckminster. 
Cary James 
Mill Valley, CA 
Chinese parable vs. Fuller is a prime trap, which you're welcome to. 
I figure our best chance lies in ecological pagans, and the world game, 
and critical letters, and the rest of it. So long as stuff 
is getting tried, 
and the stuff knows about each other, and there’s lots of different 
stuff. Once it’s in the world, evolution can sort it out. — S.B. 
Biodegradable Detergents and Phosphates 
All biodegradable detergents are not “GOOD”, “PURE”, etc. 
Amway products decompose quickly but have a high phos- 
phate content (Amway Trizyne 52.5%, SA8 36.5%). Deter- 
2 gents contain phosphate compounds. Phosphates over-fertil- 
ize water. Algae prospers. Top algae smothers bottom algae. 
Bottom algae rots and consumes oxygen in order to decom- 
pose. Algae taking more oxygen out of water than returning. 
Algae, plants, fish and eventually water dies. Algae produces 
90% of the earth’s oxygen. In 7 years or so, no more oxygen 
(Ehrlich). 
What to do. Shaklee organic products are the best that | know 
of. They contain 0.1 parts per million phosphate. And they 
completely decompose in 7 days under the worst conditions. 
It is only sold through private distributors. To find distribu- 
tors or to become one write: SHAKLEE PRODUCTS; 2035 
National Avenue; P.O. Box 3625; Hayward, California 94544. 
In Portland, distributors are listed in the yellow pages under 
cleaning compounds. 
WHAT ELSE TO DO: Write senators and congressmen. (Get 
out petitions.) Ask them to pass legislation making it illegal 
to sell/use, distribute, etc., any detergent that will not com- 
pletely decompose in 7 days and that has more than 1% phos- 
phate compounds. The detergent companies can meet these 
standards but it is cheaper etc. ..... 
Kit Whitney 
Portland, Oregon 
> 4a 
UNFOWLING THE NEST 
Hark the crises of waste water disposal 
. 
. 
. and Behold this 
ecologically and biologically sound contraption: 
“The Microphone Sewage Treatment System.”” This is a 
self contained treatment plant designed to replace the sep- 
tic tank for a small installation such as home(s), school, 
motel, small industry, etc. 
It uses redwood bark as a sub- 
strate for biological degradation of suspended and dissolved 
wastes, i.e., its three chambers perform the equivalent of 
primary and secondary treatment giving an effluent usable 
for agriculture, etc. 
Being tried by 
Joe Brennan 
Moss Beach, CA 
Information available from the manufacturer: 
Hilfiker Inc. 
3900 Broadway 
P.O. Drawer L 
Eureka, CA 95501 
Looks interesting, but is this yet another reason to fell 
the redwoods? — ed. 
NOD 
Maximum Concern for Our Biosphere 
In response to Jeffrey Atwood’s letter, and that of Philip 
Kienholz, in the March issue, | would like to point out that 
we have begun to produce an effective machine dishwashing 
compound which is totally biodegradable and contains no 
phosphates. Our compound contains sodium carbonate (old- 
fashioned washing soda), metasilicates and 2% of a low-foam, 
totally biodegradable detergent. We are offering this product 
for sale, along with nine other ecologically sane cleaning prod- 
ucts. However, it is our policy to make our formulas available, 
free of charge, to anyone who wishes to produce his own 
cleaning products. 
MCB Products, a new San Francisco enterprise, is offering 
ecologically sane cleaning products for sale. All our products 
are biodegradable. They contain no phosphates, no perfumes, 
no bleaches, no preservatives and no clarifying agents. Some 
of our cleaners are all vegetable in composition (where this 
is practical for the cleaning purpose). We do not market any 
product whose manufacture involves contact with heavy met- 
als or other potentially toxic substances. 
Our labels clearly indicate every ingredient in every product 
and our formulas are available to anyone on request. If there 
is sufficient demand, we will offer for sale, in bulk, ingredi- 
ents from which people can manufacture their own cleaning 
products. 
Our products may be purchased in case lots packaged (24 
packages per case) or in bulk (100-500 pounds in shipping 
drums). Write us for price lists. 
Sharon Fain 
MCB Products 
Maximum Concern 
for our Biosphere 
P.O. Box 24262 
San Francisco, CA 94124 
Fe | 
What about Amway? 
Thanks to Philip Kienholz for sending in the list on phos- 
phate contents in detergents (Supplement — March 1970). 
You should print in big letters in the catalog advice to read- 
ers not to use Amway. A little knowledge — thinking “bio- 
degradable’ means it’s ecologically sound — is dangerous. | 
discovered from the list why washing soda is better to use 
with soap flakes than water softener and Snowy Bleach. 
| 
knew the soap flake—washing soda com bination had been 
recommended, but | didn’t know why. 
Suzanne Lainson 
Hastings, Nebraska 
Sure, Amway is a distributor, but local and hard (for me it 
took a letter and several phone calls and most of the time I 
got sales pitches for their other products... .) to find some- 
times. Better to go to good old Sears, who carries a biode- 
gradable detergent (11F 9366C — 20 Ib box for 4.17, and 
this is concentrated) or check in the local market, and look 
very carefully for the word biodegradable. 
And then I think you should tell the folks what it means: 
Biodegradable means that the molecules break down quickly 
in water, and it doesn’t use up oxygen in the rivers as much 
as ordinary detergents who (dear me, which) take longer to 
break down. Course, there are fast acting and slower acting 
biodegradables, but I'll let some biologist take over 
Also, University of Toronto is doing some work ona phos- 
phorous free soap, and some like it, some say it doesn’t clean 
as well. Phosphorous and nitrogen are the things algae and 
bacteria love, and until you eliminate this excess, you are still 
polluting. 
In short, tell your people Amway is nice, Sears is most of the 
time easier to get the stuff, but GET IT AND USE IT. 
And write encouraging letters to Toronto. Biodegradable is 
not the final answer. 
Alexandra Van Gelder 
Storrs, Connecticut 
i was shocked out of using Amway’s laundry detergent by 
finding in Philip Kienholz’s letter (March WEC, p. 10) their 
product listed at top of list of phosphate-containing prod- 
ucts (bad for fish and aquatic plants) with 52.5%. 
on more careful consideration, i found that their chief laun- 
dry detergent, Amway S-A-8, is half-way down the list with 
only 36.5%, and remembered that you use only half as much 
of it in the washer as you.do of popularly-advertised brands. 
so effectively the phosphate content compares as 18.25%; 
not too bad. 
phosphate-free Amway L.O.C. can be used for laundry but 
they say that while it does clean clothes, after repeated wash- 
ing ‘‘some greying may occur”. 
Carol Maddox 
Cape May Courthouse, N.J. 
The Amway Corporation registers its phosphate percentage in 
its Trizyme washing detergent as 34.3%, which brings it down 
to 8.6% per wash load (Trizyme is concentrated, you use about 
1/4 cup). However, the difference between this figure and the 
number listed in your last supplement could be because Am- 
way uses percentage weight and the list uses percentage vol- 
ume, or vice versa. Anyway, you should determine the actual 
figure because if the Amway phosphate percentage is below 
10% it would be the best low-phosphate, biodegradable deter- 
~ gent manufactured. 
Jeffrey T. Atwood 
W. Hartford, Connecticut 
THREE LAWS 
EVERYTHING IS CONNECTED TO EVERYTHING 
EVERYTHING'S GOT TO GO SOMEWHERE 
THERE’S NO SUCH THING AS A FREE LUNCH 
