€ 
ALTERNATIVE ACTION 
Have heard a lot lately about ecology and pollution 
I offer you a few thoughts. A country pays out its 
ecology and resources in order to have industry and 
technology. An underdeveloped nation will generally 
allow pollution and destruction of the ecology while 
achieving a higher standard of living. If you’re starv- 
ing you don’t care who saves trees or why. More 
people alive and less starvation and disease is a good 
thing, even if it costs. Human life is worth more. 
(This touches on a further point which I will get to.) 
People don’t care until a particular level of 
living is 
reached when enough people have time, money, 
when they are affluent. 
The directions then left to 
them are 1. Level off, put out no more garbage and 
begin redeeming what’s already out here. 
2. Cut 
down on industry and actually close factories and 
begin a controlled form of underdevelopment. 
3. Pay out the entire environment for the techno- 
logical capability to leave it and move somewhere 
new and start again. 
Certain disadvantages occur in 
all cases. Someone gets hurt and the nature of our 
system demands that low man gets it. The same 
people begin consistently losing if they haven't al- 
ready. 
So, society won't take care of us all. 
Usually 
you either split or stayed but now the global village 
is catching up. We will soon have nowhere to split 
to. So revolution. 
Well, that’s not really any better. 
Revolutions only change the people who are winning 
and losing. 
That is if they’re good revolutions. 
As 
ORO pointed out individual freedom must give way 
for the stability of the society. If you deviate beyond 
a certain point you are out. However those people 
who eventually shape the society and cause it to pro- 
gress are also out. 
Creative people deviate because 
of the forces that make them creative in the first 
place. Colin Wilson’s Outsider made a nice picture 
of this. Richard Lindner (Rebel Without a Cause) 
also pointed out that creative people are related to 
criminal psychopaths. 
What makes you one and not 
the other is still a mystery. So then we all get togeth- 
er. Fine except who wants to be in the same place 
with the Boston Strangler? Who lives? Who dies? 
Then too the society that is left, the conformist, 
stabile one will stagnate. 
Whether they watch the 
other or not is meaningless because the two groups 
must interact for each others mutual interest. 
So- 
ciety needs the stability and the instability together. 
If separated they both begin falling down. 
What I 
seem to have arrived at here is the idea of many out- 
law areas. 
Each outlaw to the rest by greater and 
lesser degrees. 
With enough fluctuation this could 
be kept up as long as possible. Once travel bans, and 
secret police and armies got going we'd be right back 
where we started. 
War mongers, money grubers, 
power grabbers, etc. will all be around and then we 
start shooting at each other. Like it or not we seem 
to have one of the best worlds around. 
The fact 
that it’s in trouble-is nothing. 
It would be in trouble 
anyway. 
What matters is the degree of trouble we re 
in. So for now we've got to keep bucking the system 
confident that our children will have a different sys- 
tem to buck. 
As for the point I mentioned earlier I refer to Biafra 
and the Biafran children. (My politics in this matter 
on neither side.) They have starved alot and now 
those who survive will be permanently retarded, have 
weak hearts, various internal disorders, and be far 
more prone to disease than usual. 
These children will 
be a burden to the nation and the people of Nigeria 
because of this. Are they really better off alive? 
I’m not really prepared to answer that. I can’t be- 
lieve anyone is, not even the children. 
They will live 
now, but how well? This is one specific case but 
there are literally millions of starving children who 
will be saved from death but not from damage. Are 
we really right? 
As to the three alternatives preparation has already 
begun to move people to other planets. I'm not 
talking about government work either. Several peo- 
ple are planning for it now. Perhaps if this all ends 
soon there will indeed be someone to come around 
and sweep up. 
° —@~- 
Groovey People are the Ultimate Pollutant 
Art, religion, politics might be tools, okay. But Earth Peoples 
Park is not a tool. 
It is a guaranteed ecological disaster created 
by bigtime media superfreaks who are adept at creating disas- 
ters. (See Haight-Ashbury.) And what do you have against 
Queen Charlotte Island? You know advertizing it in the Cata- 
log will only get lots of groovey people up there to rip off the 
Indians and fuck up the ecosystem. Recognize that man is the 
ultimate pollutant. 
Krishna Echofreak 
yours for Marsin 99 
George E. Thompson 
Lafayette, Indiana 
REACTION 
Recent issue calls for — almost — all out war on the Hippies 
claiming Angloes have no right to be here — it’s Chicano 
land, etc. (they make no reference to the fact that this is 
Indian land and the Chicanos too are foreigners). 
Things are ‘‘up-tight’’ — we see our own impurities manifest 
in the actions of others — houses burned, long hairs attacked, 
shot, etc. — Joe Bonner and Steve Durkee were attacked in 
Taos last week — cut heads (no pun intended), smashed wind- 
shield. A bridge burning in Pilar left several families stranded 
on the other side of the Rio Grande — 1/2 the families being 
residents of the ‘straight’ community. A Taos doctor with 
Hippie patients had his car tires slashed and gas tank sugared. 
Divine Mother dances on and we taste a bit of the hate that 
sweeps this plane of karmic illusion. 
At the Blessed Feet of Rama all manner of being is well. 
Shanti 
Tom Duckworth 
Embudo, New Mexico 
Social Liberation 
Dear Mr. Brand, 
| recently read the Jay Bonner staff gripe on page 47 of the January 
supplement. 
| can understand your personal desire in developing the 
Catalog to provide access to tools to further a particular personal 
lifestyle. Were you to stick to the individual tools which we all find 
so helpful and not comment upon the purpose of this lifestyle nor 
attempt to understand the situation that creates the desire for a back 
to nature isolationism (and don't litter on the way), then | could 
hardly complain. However, you are in fact making such statements 
by including the works cited in column two of Bonner’s letter plus 
such items as The View from the Barrio, The Politics of the Barrios 
of Venezuela, What if we run out of plastic ore?, Mountain Fantasy, 
Liferaft Earth, Earth People’s Park, etc. 
\f you are going to introduce your readers to these greater problems 
of sociology, ecology, and politics, you cannot expect them to acquire 
amore encompassing consciousness unless you introduce them to the 
most significant process of present historical dynamics, i.e., inductriali- 
zation as manifested in capitalism and socialism. This is a process that 
is not about to rate the problem of ecological preservation above that 
of increasing economic power and will continue to befuddle Arthur 
Godfreys as to why “our bureaucrats are dragging their feet.” 
To expect personal liberation without social liberation is callousness, 
and | can only admire a member of the younger generation such as 
Jay Bonner for perceiving this characteristic of the Catalog. Your 
response to him betrays your misunderstandings of American capital- 
ism, why it needs continued repression of the Third World to maintain 
its hegemony, and why what you consider to be your radical response 
to its direction, the Catalog, is in fact not about to rock the boat at 
all and thus can have as retaining subscribers some of America’s most 
powerfisl capitalists. 
Bradley H. Dowden 
Los Altos, CA 
There are a lot of books, periodicals, and soapboxes going on the sub- 
ject of social liberation — some of them damned good. I 
figure it’s a 
waste of usefulness for us to try to re-hash their work further. We may 
be useful by approaching the same problems from a slightly different 
direc tion. 
Note: The Whole Earth Catalog is so named in order to promote the 
visual image of the planet, not to suggest that we are comprehensive. 
One good reason for stopping the Catalog in ’71 is that people keep 
levering us toward being some kind of empire monopoly or other 
cure-all. No, thank you. — S.B. 
