V 
Province of 
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 
LANDS BRANCH 
Saskatchewan 
ADMINISTRATION BUILDING, REGINA 
OFFICIAL 
Re: Available Crown Land in Saskatchewan 
Land under our administration and suitable for agricultural 
purposes are allotted under a lease agreement. There is a 
great demand for all such lands that become available and 
they are usually allotted to vicinity residents who require ad- 
ditional land to make their farming units more economical. 
People who are interested in moving to this province may 
become established in farming by either purchasing or rent- 
ing privately owned land. You may wish to write to the 
Boards of Trade or Chambers of Commerce in certain areas 
of the province to request the names of real estate agencies 
who may be able to supply you with such a list of available 
land. 
Our policy for the sale of provincial land provides only for 
a sale to lessees who have completed five years satisfactory 
performance on the lease. 
Yours truly, 
D.L. Wickenheiser, 
for Supervisor 
Land Dispositions 
eS 
RUINED DINNER 
LN 
y 
Wrote to the Office of Land Management in Alaska about home- 
steading. Prompt reply states, all homestead land indefinitely 
withdrawn —— ruined my dinner. Very nice Xerox form !etter 
though. 
Skip Whelan 
San Diego, CA 
Land and Log Cabins in B.C. 
Concerning your information on Canada as printed in your 
January Supplement, there is a new Land Act for B.C. in the 
process of being brought out and anyone who has gotten one 
previously should enquire again. There is nothing startlingly 
new about it, but no more homesteading — no problem, there 
are other ways to get Crown Land. 
You mention pamphlets available from the Federal and Provin- 
cial Depts. of Agriculture, but there are also pamphlets of in- 
terest available from other departments, namely Forestry, 
Fisheries & Wildlife, or whatever. The names of the depart- 
ments vary somewhat from province to province but a letter 
addressed to the vague name of the department (they'll get 
the picture), c/o the Parliament Buildings, the Capital of what- 
ever province, should get there. Just ask for a list of their pub- 
lications. 
Also in the letter(?) about the Queen Charlottes Islands, Kieth 
Gilbert makes it sound easy to get that $70 a month Social 
Assistance. Be warned, it is anything but automatic! 
| got 
some money from them about 5 years ago and if | could have 
found a job I’m sure I’d have had a much easier time working 
for the money than grovelling about for it the way | had to. 
: 
Concerning the situation in the Interior of B.C. where | live, 
there is quite a bit of land available. Unfortunately, little is 
accessible by all-weather roads (maybe that should read for- 
tunately). 
In your Fall ’69 Catalog, your write-up on “The Wilderness 
Cabin” states that ‘‘not many log cabins are still being built.” 
Not so up here. | helped my wife’s cousin build 3 last fall 
and 
he isn't the only one around here building them. And 
lots more people know how. So, book or no book, if any- 
one wants to build one up here, it would be wise to get some- 
one to help — there’s a lot of hard work involved and you 
may as well build a good one the first time. 
Sent by 
Bill Harany 
100 Mile House, B.C. 
Canada 
AS Land Ends c= 
‘N CANADA LAND ACT 
In order to discourage foreign land speculators the B.C. Land 
Act has recently been ammended to allow sale of Crown Land 
to Canadian citizens only. This ammendment renders both 
the Crown Lands and the Canadian Tax Land for Sale items 
on page 41 non applicable to other than Canadians. Perhaps 
anyone wishing to use Canadian land should be or become a 
citizen anyway. 
The Island Fantacy In Depth by Kieth Gilbert is fantastic but, 
the Charlottes remain a pretty soggy place and some of the 
points in the article need criticism. Big dogs and bears can re- 
sult in big trouble for instance. A recent case of bear gets man 
was caused by dog. Those arriving intent on receiving welfare 
could encounter much more trouble from “locals” than immi- 
grants of different racial origins. Also trading with the Indians 
seems to have gone out with the fur trade. 
Even though parts of Canada seem very remote, it is difficult 
even here to find areas where the landscape remains unscathed 
by our North American quest for resources in support of our 
often crass economic and industrial processes. The way of life 
Kieth seems to suggest is probably hard to accommodate until 
we learn to allow for it again. Many books and articles indi- 
cate the commitment and cost involved in the establishment 
of such intentional communities and it should not be over- 
looked that these investments are likely harder to meet where 
the climate is harsh. 
John Wilcox 
Victoria B.C. 
: 
: 
( GLEN RIVER, UTAH 1870) 
Farm in Maine 
We would like to recommend Maine as a place to buy cheap 
land. We got 100 acres farm (70 acres woods, 30 acres fields, 
house, barn, trout stream, wild animals, springs & several 
million black flies — scourge of the northern woods) for 
$6800 last summer. This is of course not on the ocean, but 
in the northern central part, about 45 miles north of Bangor. 
Maine also has its own semi-underground paper (sold at How- 
ard Johnson’s throughout the state), the Maine Times, which 
concerns itself with the right things. 
Mike & Carla Mantler 
New York, N.Y. 
>-— 
e —“~29c— > 
OZARK LAND HANDLERS 
—-4 
Owensby’s Ozark land circular — prepared with photo, description 
and cost — available by writing: | 
Owensby and Sons 
Home Office 
South Side of Public Square 
Buffalo, Mo. 65622 
> 
No. 912 
= 
Secluded 
Ozark retreat, 
Four room rock home on kO acres 
fust 1/2 mile from the “isneva River, 
About 12 m!les 
from town, 
on an all-venther rosd and all rontes. Fouse 
has 2 hecrooms, electricity, 
mas, 
enc runntne water, 
Srall tarn 
tn coo? conattton, 
and rock fruit celler. 
Low 
texes. 
irflled welland pressure 
system, c'stern, 
Phone 
service 
fs availeble, 
Ides] for orcherd 
& earden, 
stx 
ecres open. 
Price £5000, with terms, 
= 
No, 213 
- 
Here 
is the perfert hO for a beef cattle operstion. 
26 
acres 
in cultivation, 
recently broveht 
=p to so'l tests, 
Wwner reports 
over SOO beles 
of hay cut last veer, Extre 
a barhwire fenc'ne, 
Food somtne-fed vond 
ound water, 
Old k-room house, could he ltved 
on back porch. 
Within 25 miles of Sortne“tele, 
lomtle 
off min btohuny, 
2 rtles fromcountry store and 
emirch, 
$9350 with lees then 1/3 downpvanent. 
- No. lu 
- 
° Unbeetable comh!net‘on--700d 
locstion, cood land * gzood 
} house. 
4O acres 
on paved bichway, all rovtes, & x>1le 
from country stores, 
?5 acres seeded to permanent pasture, 
balance native crass %&7 acres of timber. Smooth, sendy 
loam. 
2 ponds, 1 spring-fed. Exceptionally clean * well- 
kept 3 b-droom home, redecorstec 
inside, 
Bath, utility 
room, gas & phone. 
Lots of storeze space. Several out- 
buileines. Owner says the well is real cood one. Taxes 
$102. 
Fossession 30 days. 
$14,500 with about 1/2 ‘down, 
ae 
VW 
‘ 
PROVINCE OF MANITOBA 
DEPARTMENT OF 
MINES AND NATURAL RESOURCES 
LANDS BRANCH 
810 NORQUAY BUILDING, WINNIPEG 1, MANITOBA 
Re: Available Crown Land in Manitoba 
This will acknowledge your recent inquiry respecting Crown 
lands in the Province of Manitoba. 
As there has been heavy pressure from the public for the use 
of Crown lands, suitable lands for either agricultural purposes 
or for grazing and ranching is limited. The Province has been 
settled for many years with the result that lands suitable for 
these.purposes are now in private control. 
Frequently, as 
the frontiers are pushed back, new lands become accessible 
for future development but with the heavy demands we have 
had to restrict disposition to residents in the immediate area. 
In the early years of settlement in the Province there was a 
homestead policy whereby settlers could get land by carrying 
out certain improvements on unoccupied Crown lands and 
thereafter apply for title. This policy was discontinued in 
1930. 
The situation with respect to sites for summer homes and 
hunting lodges is also limited. No disposition is made of sites 
for summer homes unless they are within surveyed subdivi- 
sions. 
We are pleased to acknowledge your inquiry and to give you 
any information we have available to us with respect to Crown 
lands in Manitoba but the situation is that those wishing to 
settle in the Province are advised to obtain their needs from 
private sources. 
Yours truly, 
M.C. McKay, 
Director of Lands. 
» 
® 
OPEN ¥ 
) 
LAND SURVEY 
Yukon and Northwest Territories will lease unsurveyed land 
and sell some surveyed land to anyone — no age, citizenship, 
or residence requirements. 
Alberta has a 3 year residence requirement. You must apply 
in person at a sub-agency land office. Alberta Dept. of Lands 
and Forests, Edmonton, Alberta. 
New Brunswick has very little land available and you must 
be a resident. They will give you title after you occupy the 
land for 3 years. Write to New Brunswick Dept. of Lands and 
Mines, Fredericton, New Brunswick. 
= 
None of the Provinces will sell timberland; they only sell cut- 
ting permits. Also the gov't keeps all mineral rights whether 
you lease or buy their land. 
John Pashdag 
Mt. Baldy, CA 
. —_-- o ===> e 
HARDY TYPES 
From what | hear, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, etc. are getting 
pretty crowded with land getting scarce and too many hip tourists 
that don’t like to help, and all the other bullshit that happens when 
an area gets too popular. 
Northern Minnesota might bear looking into for hardy types who 
don't mind cold winters and good hunting and fishing. Land in 
St. Louis County around Duluth runs anywhere from $2.50 to $6.00 
an acre depending mostly on timber value. Some private land is also 
for sale. | bought 20 acres and a cabin for $500 last fall. My nearest 
neighbor is 1/4 mile away and the woods are full of rabbits, deer, 
;
grouse, bear and moose. There are also abandoned farms west of 
Duluth in some of the neighboring counties. Write for a start to: 
*) 
Counry Auditor 
St. Louis County Court House 
Duluth, Minnesota 
for a free list of land to be auctioned off at the land salesheld twice 
_
a year. 
- 
Throw in a quarter and they'll send a huge map of the third largest 
county in the country. 
j 
Skip Porter 
Ps 
Detroit, Michigan 
