S ) Out Loud 
C “= 
earth resources: women 
we need to talk about one of the earths greatest un- 
used resources — women. our talents and abilities 
have lain untapped for centuries, and there is a great 
need of them now. we need to involve everyone in 
the survival game on the most intimate levels pos- 
sible. spaceship earth badly needs new pilots, as 
many as it can get; and women must be allowed to 
participate beyond the stewardess level. the crea- 
tion of alternative life styles must include new pat- 
terns in the man-woman relationship. we would like 
to open up a dialogue in future $1 catalogs, with 
women, and about women. we would like to hear 
from women in the outlaw areas, women participat- 
ing in any kind of communal living scene. most com- 
munes i’ve come into contact with seem to be set up 
on very patriarchal lines, with women in traditional 
roles of housewifery and babycare. are there com- 
munes where women can freely choose to go out 
and build domes if they wish to, instead of cooking 
and changing diapers? are there any matriarchies? 
let us hear from you. 
pam smith 
Introducing: 
Divine Right's Chick, Estelle 
._At dawn Estelle went to the big rock across the creek at the 
edge of the campground to do the Sun Salutation. The rock 
was about the size of their van, and flat on top, with a big 
black swastika some drunk had painted on the side. The 
night before, she and Divine Right had lain on it smoking 
dope and looking at the stars. But D.R. had been in a mood, 
he hadn’t liked it much. He said the rock was too much like 
a burned-out star for him, too cold and hard. It reminded 
him of himself too much, it got in the way of his high. D.R. 
likely would have launched into a heavy monologue about 
the constellations if Estelle hadn’t said honey why don’t we 
leave and come back in the morning. D.R. said okay. But 
at dawn he was too sleepy to get up, so Estelle went to the 
rock by herself and got ready to do the Sun Salutation. Care- 
fully she spread her Mexican serape on the flat surface. Then 
she took off the shirt she'd slept in and stood there naked, 
looking at the serape, trying to breathe according to its col- 
ors. She breathed red and orange and blue and yellow, and 
then all four at once in a rapid bellows breath. Finally she 
closed her eyes and folded her hands before her in an atti- 
tude of prayer. Inhaling deeply, she lifted her arms and bent 
backwards. As she stretched, a fantastic movie began to play 
behind her eyes, a brilliant panoramic shot in technicolor in 
which a group of silent Indians floated by on feathered 
horses, while in the distance a wheatfield became a golden 
wing and flew away. Estelle smiled and bent forward to 
touch her toes. The colors changed when she bent over. 
They turned to charcoal streaked with black, and as the land- 
seape of her mind changed a new character came into the 
scene, a fat Outdoorsman in a light blue pickup truck with 
a trailbike mounted on the front, a camper rig on top and a 
fourteen foot motorboat following along behind. Estelle 
saw him out of the corner of her eye but she didn’t inter- 
rupt her movement. Her rhythm flowed on like music, her 
body was conducted by the sun. She would finish in a min- 
ute. After her breathing exercises and maybe some chant- 
ing, if the Outdoorsman was still there, she'd acknowledge 
him, she’d be friendly. Maybe he was a secret-philosopher 
— 
who could teach her something. Maybe he was a nare who'd 
bust her and D.R. both. Maybe he was Jesus. Maybe he was 
God. If he was God, maybe for breakfast conversation she 
could lay on him her flash that what stars are is salt shook 
from the cosmic shaker, blown wild by a devilish wind. May- 
be this man was the devil. Sweet fat face, sitting in his camp- 
er, look at his creweut, look at his tattoo, look at all those 
ns. Look at him look at me looking at the sun. Oh, sweet 
girl, let him look and Jet him see, we're both just creatures 
- of a public campground, starting out a brand new day. He 
is he and | am me, and see the golden wheatfield fly up to 
the sun. 
: 
50 
Gurney Norman 
Women as Artists 
The probability of being both a “‘whole woman” and 
an artist is small. The probability of being a whole 
woman and a would-be artist is small; the obstruc- 
tions are more impressive than the literal ones that 
discourage talented young men (increasingly con- 
temptuous American attitudes toward artists, the dif- 
ficulty of making a living thereby, etc.). 
That there seems to be a kind of Gardol shield be- 
tween women and a confident world where inspira- 
tion might be materialized, leads in the heart of even 
the staunchest young woman to the ““Goddamn-it- 
why-AREN’T-there-any-women-composers?!”’ kind 
of apostasy. 
: 
Women have made pretty good novelists, and it isn’t 
hard to guess that the particular awareness on which 
novels in our tradition trade is one that is encouraged 
in women, to some degree: a wife, for instance, is 
expected to be more sensitive to the feelings of a 
couple’s friends than is her husband, it’s she who 
writes Thank You notes and makes apologies and is 
privy to marital secrets. The sensibilities of the tra- 
ditional novel aren’t all that different from those to 
which an educated wife-and-mother is typically ex- 
horted. 
But if writing well (lord, writing at all) demands 
truthfulness, for whatever limited and unrecognized 
time, it isn’t likely that women would undertake it, 
since so many women, even those with something to 
say, are unwilling to deal with the truths of their own 
lives, are unwilling to wound their men’s belief in 
women’s utter dependence on them for ideas and in- 
spiration. 
The possibility is that many women are not only 
fearful and insecure about their own talents, no mat- 
ter how real they sometimes seem, are not only un- 
likely to have much time and energy to spare, but 
are as well in an imaginative state, a perceptual state 
remote from that required to direct fantasy into ar- 
tifact; it’s been suggested that the numerous conflict- 
ing duties of a 
whole woman have confused and frac- 
tured a whole imagination, and have made every pri- 
vate creative minute a source of guilt. Many of the 
women I’ve talked with about these ideas end up 
looking alike — shaking their heads desperately as if 
they could jolt all those hg abe into place and 
get it on, if only the task of reconstructing a random- 
ized imagination were not so huge. 
Clearly one thing that might help is if we could be 
our own audience for a while. We would be interest- 
ed in any thoughts women readers, especially artists 
or would-be artists, have on these things. If you have 
any writing or drawing or photography or babbling 
that you haven’t shown around, or even stuff you 
have shown around, we’d be interested in seeing it, 
with an eye to some future gathering of materials in- 
to a publication. 
Cia Holdorf 
“The quickest way to have a revolution is to stop 
buying.” 
(a grayhaired lady flying 
over the Rockies) 
To a barely post-adolescent girl, well-schooled in the 
fine old American art of acquisition — a blasphemy. 
To a slightly older female struggling to become a 
_ 
free and whole human woman ina horrifyingly shat- 
tered and inhuman society — a revolutionary jolt to 
our consciousness. 
To be unloaded of the compulsion to buy and to col- 
lect, to be free to make or trade only those thing 
which are truly essential to the support and preser- 
vation of life and spirit — just think of what that 
means: 
For the freeing of women: 
Like smoking, buying 
can be, for women especially, a compulsive and de- 
structive activity which we use to keep ourselves 
~ 
from dealing with our real needs. Some items like 
food and a minimum of clothing, are necessities. 
But then come the tempting chameleon of fashion 
layouts, household furnishings and decorative stuff, 
and all the elaborate so-called labor-saving devices. 
Even the counter-culture has a prodigious pile of 
far-out things because they are ‘“‘fun” to buy. We 
women are the main money-spenders. Bound in 
our minds as tightly as a Chinese virgin’s feet, we 
smother ourselves with shoddy soul-killing plastic 
planned-obsolescence. Titillation & ersatz fulfill- 
ment become ways to fill up the boring days of wife- 
and-motherhood. STOP. Imagine never going inside 
a shopping center again. Imagine not being preyed 
upon by obscene Madison Avenue vultures. STOP 
believing in so-called labor saving, and STOP believ- 
ing that you are necessarily bound to have things in 
order to be a real and vital person. Go backpacking 
just once and learn the joy of living in the world 
with just what you need. We must learn to tell the 
difference between what we want (gimme) and what 
we need (life). It is time for us as women together, 
to start finding new ways to order our lives and to 
use the time, energy and spirit once submerged in 
maintaining elaborate & wasteful households. Learn 
to make, learn to do, learn to be. 
For the freeing of society: When people stop using 
money and possession of material goods as a means 
of oppressing other people, we can begin to rebuild 
a society of free men and women. STOP supporting 
private ownership by buying unneeded and unwant- 
ed junk. STOP being acquisitive. 
For the good of the earth: Our greed and insecurity 
are ruining our beautiful planet-home. We must be- 
gin learning how to live with fewer things for fewer 
people. STOP killing the earth by consuming. 
For you: Returning to the pioneer days, doing-it- 
yourself-the-hard-way, renouncing technology would 
mean that life, especially for women, would be in- 
credibly hard. The idea of working all the time just 
to stay alive is contrary to the idea of freeing women 
so that they can be creative and whole. One alterna- 
tive to slowing down the destruction of the earth 
without our reversion to fulltime skullery-maids is 
the pooling of necessary and useful tools, of time, of 
energy, Another alternative is to become craftsmen 
again — make what we need, make it beautifully and 
in that way reconnect ourselves to real parts of our 
lives. Have good fantasies and START using them. 
There must be hundreds of ways, alternatives to 
playing the role of woman-as-consumer. Please share 
your ideas with us. Let’s help each other out from 
under the mountains of lipstick and TV sets and 
washing machines and back into the air. START. 
Terri Gunesch 
and Caroline Green 
Send your reaction, letters, articles or contributions 
in any form about women to Pam Smith, in care of 
the Whole Earth Catalog, 558 Santa Cruz Avenue, 
Menlo Park, California 94025. 
