ee ne 
?“PRIMITIVE WEAPONS’’? 
Compared to firearms, the so-called ‘primitive weapons” have 
several advantages: they are simple, light, cheap, and versatile 
in use. They require no ammunition you can’t make yourself 
— and although you can reload some kinds of firearms ammu- 
nition, you will eventually run out of powder and primers. Ex- 
cept in places like New York City, you have no legal hassles 
over ownership or registration with ‘‘primitive weapons’. 
These weapons are perfectly adequate for hunting (or our an- 
cestors would not have survived), if you will practice with 
them. They are silent in use. In some cases, they exhibit 
amazingly advanced understanding of technically advanced 
concepts and principles — the boomerang operates on the 
principles of the airfoil and gyroscopic precession, etc. They 
are fun to play with, and if you use reasonable care and do 
not endanger others, you can usually play around with them 
in a lot of places where it is illegal to practice with firearms. 
Boomerangs 
— As mentioned, the boomerang works on the 
principles of the airfoil and gyroscopic precession. This is not 
a toy, but a hunting and fighting weapon which works very 
well on small game, especially birds in flight. More fun to 
play with than a frisbee, but don’t ever forget that it strikes 
with tremendous force due to the rapid rotation of the blades. 
The best ones | know of are made by Colonel John M. Gerrish, 
4409 S.W. Parkview Lane, Portland 1, Oregon. These are ply- 
wood booms that weigh the same as a baseball, and he also 
makes a heavier hunting type with lead weights set into the 
blades. His booms are about five dollars depending on the 
model. 
Blowguns — Not to be confused with a kid’s peashooter. You 
don’t need poison darts either, at least on small game. A four 
foot length of half-inch aluminum tubing developes enough 
velocity with a light dart to give results about like a .22 rifle 
up to 25 yards or so. This is silent, as accurate as a rifle, and 
with practice can develop a high rate of sustained fire if you 
care about that. This weapon is so simple that you can make 
your own very easily — using half inch tubing and making 
darts out of lengths of steel (like cut off knitting needles) set 
into golf tees for bases. Use a mouthpiece of wood or rubber, 
etc. for your lips to press against. 
If you prefer to buy one, 
try Survival Research Company, 71 Ridge Crescent, Manhasset, 
New York 11030., Another source: 
the Wham-O Manufac- 
turing Company, 835 E. El Monte Street, San Gabriel, Califor- 
nia 91778. 
Crossbows — The modern resurgence of interest in regular 
bows and arrows is well known, but the crossbow has been 
neglected for some reason. This is strange, since the crossbow 
is, in its usual form, much more powerful than conventional 
bows, more accurate (for anyone except experts with the con- 
ventional bow) since you do not have to exert muscular effort 
while aiming the arrow, and considerably easier to learn to use 
than is the conventional bow. Crossbows with steel bows cut 
from automobile leaf springs may be made to pull at several 
hundred pounds, while the conventional hunting type bows 
seldom run much over fifty. This means that if you are good 
enough, you can use a heavy crossbow to pot at that deer two 
hundred yards away or so. Light crossbows may be comfor- 
tably set by hand and are sufficient for small to medium game. 
They are silent and can be nearly as accurate as a hunting rifle 
within their range, which is nearly as great as that of a firearm 
in many kinds of terrain. 
If you want to make your own crossbow, you might try to lo- 
cate the ‘“‘C’’ volume of the old Popular Mechanics Do-It-Y our- 
self Encyclopedia, which had an excellent article under ‘Cross- 
bows”. This is a fairly complicated job, however, so unless 
you are a skilled craftsman in wood and metal, you might pre- 
fer to buy acrossbow. Wham-O Manufacturing, listed above, 
sells one in the $30—$40 price range. Another source: George 
Stevens, Huntsville, Arkansas, or Dave Benedict, 20601 Co- 
vello Street, Canoga Park, California. The crossbow is one 
“orimitive’’ weapon which is efficient enough to be subject to 
a certain amount of legal restriction — so you might check out 
your local situation in that regard. Also, some states now have 
seasons and areas reserved for hunters using bows or crossbows, 
and if you are a meat hunter this could be important. 
William Kirby 
Portland, Oregon 
wa 
=) 
ow 
About Roger Knights’ suggestion of the Parastatik Disk 
Preener from Cecil Watts, Like so many other British prod- 
ucts, it is quite a bit cheaper from the manufacturer. Against 
$5.50 from Sam Goody’s, it is $.81 from Cecil Watts Ltd., 
Darby House, Sunbury-on-Thames, Middlesex. It might be 
{nice to include postage, though | think they might take care 
~! of it themselves. 
Preen Your Disks 
t 
Jerry Minkoff 
\ 
NOT SO “PRIMITIVE” WEAPONS 
This company offers reproductions of muzzle-loading firearms 
(pistols and rifles 
— BOTH percussion cap and flintlock). All 
parts and accessories offered. 
i.e. Flintlock rifle — overall length 55%4’’, weighs 8% Ibs., .45 
caliber 7 gr6.ve 13/16” barrel mounted curly maple stock. 
$295.00 plus $3.00 shipping. 
All kinds of powder horns, flasks or the components to make 
your own. 
Bullet molds, stag slabs for knife handles or pis- 
tol grips. 
Sheffield knife blanks, requires handles only. Highly polished 
and handhoned. 
6’ Bowie $3.50 
4’ Skean Dhu $1.50 
Tricorn hats $12.00 
Deerskins, patterns, tools for making hunting shirts, moccasins 
Books on firearms. 
The best buy is tomahawk kit, hand-forged head, hardwood 
handle, wedge, thong & decorative brass tacks. $5.95 postpaid. 
Perfectly balanced for throwing and an excellent light belt ax 
as well as an efficient weapon. 
$5.50 
$6.50 
A catalog is available for $1.00 from: 
cast steel 
cast brass 
Tomahawk heads 
Golden Age Arms Co., Inc. 
Post Office Box 83 
Worthington, Ohio 43085 
Submitted by 
Kenneth Cowing 
Meriden, Conn. 
Survival, Inkle Looms, Clones 
We are rather amused that so many people have recently be- 
come concerned with survival practices. Some seem to think 
it is something they discovered. For over a half century we 
have raised our vegetables and fruit, built our home, repaired 
our machinery and have “‘done our own thing." 
In our ‘‘retirement’’ we are as busy as ever with all kinds of 
handicrafts, gardening, research, photography, and enjoying 
living. 
\f any of your readers are interested in inkle looms, | am 
making them from many of our native hardwoods. | also 
construct my bows from yew wood and my arrows from 
wooden shafts and footings. Plastics and fiberglass have 
taken away much of the ‘‘wichery of archery.” 
Cross pollination of fruits and of vegetables and the raising 
new clones from your seeds can occasionally produce types 
which are better than those sold commercially. 
We grind our prunings into mulch and return the compost to 
the soil. The burning ban should encourage others to follow 
this practice. 
: 
LeRoy D. Smith 
Oakland, CA 
Anonymous Suggests 
Diving equipment — Buying diving equipment by mail is a very un- 
satisfying experience. 
While there are at least two shops that sell at 
wholesale — New England Divers (Supplement) and Central Skin- 
divers, 160 Jamaica Ave., Jamaica, N.Y. 11432, these suppliers do 
not have the facilities to test each piece of equipment before it goes 
out. The quality of most of the equipment from the largest sup- 
pliers (especially U.S. Divers) is so poor that in my experience about 
half of the equipment must be returned for exchange or refund. This 
is a process that with larger arders can continue for a long time, even 
though the above listed concerns are extremely nice and prompt in 
standing behind what they sell. Unless you like to have a large cor- 
respondence or are some sort of postal freak, buy as near to home as 
possible for better service. 
At least one equipment manufacturer (Scubapro) has a hard line — 
no discount policy on their stuff — which is quite good equipment. 
\f enough people try to break the franchise system maybe their prices 
can be brought down to a reasonable markup. 
DO NOT think that because you have a certificate from a pool-taught 
diving course you are ready to dive in the open sea, especially with 
tanks. 
Lots of people have space hangups and if you get in a situation 
where there are no sides to the pool you just might freak out ina 
singularly decisive way. Go at it slow. 
On some parts of the west and east coasts it is possible to pick up 
small bread by harvesting seaweeds. This doesn’t require any equip- 
ment, if done with care will not disturb the environment, can be done 
any calm day, and the products manufactured there-from, while used 
as food additives are at least natural and biodegradable as well as being 
safe. 
For those interested in a no bullshit approach to seafarming please 
consider Farming the Edge of the Sea, available from Fishing News 
Books Ltd., 110 Fleet Street, London E. C. 4 for £4 5s. Much of 
the crap written on the subject ignores economics, but his profusely 
illustrated and well written book is straight. 
The same outfit can provide you with some neat books on fishing 
and the realtime problems of the world fisheries which are going to 
hell at a log rate. 
Fish Protein Concentrate — The status of FPC is as follows: 
the Bu- 
reau of Commercial Fisheries has been fighting the FDA for years 
over whether fishguts, heads, scales and tails are ‘‘filthy’’. The inept- 
itude of the FDA in this matter at least is shocking to the core. 
For 
more information, write Cardinal Proteins, Canso, N. S. Canada; 
AB Astra, Gothenburg Sweden; or the Bureau of Commercial Fish- 
eries, Looks like FPC will be used as a food additive in the over- 
developed countries for at least the next decade. 
Another source of information may be the FAO in Rome. This is 
the Food and Agriculture Organization of the U.N. although it should 
be available from New York. 
Modern definitions: 
Bastard — a guy who says he is concerned about 
the environment and owns a car with more than four cylinders. 
Swine (as opposed to pig) — an ecologist or environmental biologist 
who has not volunteered his services to an industry to actively do 
something about the goddam mess. 
Fool — one who thinks the recognition of a problem and walking 
around looking kinky with a bunch of signs will cause the problem 
to disappear. This condition can be equated with a total ignorance of 
economics, a disregard for the fact that human intelligence or ability 
assumes a bell-shaped distribution (with half the fo!ks on the lower 
end), and the refutation of the fact that revolutions must be prepared 
from within a society as a function of the compiexity of the society. 
Anonymous 
Bald Rock, N.S. 
Canada 
(Well, kinky looking to you, too. — S.B.) 
