AF-O Shelters and Such OR—™ 
WHAT IS A BIOSPHERE? 
The notion of the biosphere is to make heating and growing 
food integral functions of a dwelling through the use of solar 
energy. This would be two large steps in making a dwelling a 
self-sustaining unit. This is accomplished by the use of a trans- 
parent plastic membrane which lets sunlight in but does not 
let heat or infra-red radiation out. The membrane is a solar 
energy trap. 
See figure 1 for a possible (rather unimaginative) biosphere 
configuration. The membrane covers and is stapled to the ply- 
wood grid. The walls of the enclosure are covered with alumi- 
num foil to increase the intensity of light falling on the ground. 
Here it is either absorbed by the plants (the increased light in- 
tensity compensates for the short winter days) or else is ab- 
sorbed as heat in the ground. The heat storage capacity of the 
ground is greatly increased by laying clear plastic film tubes 
that are filled with water in between the rows of the garden 
(see figure 2). The temperature inside the enclosure is main- 
tained at about 100° F by venting excess heat. Whenever heat 
is needed inside the living area, the door is opened and air con- 
vection removes heat from the water and dirt and distributes it 
in the living area. 
fovo 
werl inselated 
lamina 
toil 
Cover d wails 
Plpreed 
enrid 
Garden 
Fig. Zend view 
of gerdex rows 
; 
fant 
Plastic Tube 
iO 
According to calculations, three overcast days with an average 
temperature of 25°F or below are needed before the tempera- 
ture inside the house drops below 70°F, and then only at 
night. 
Modular Houses 
| have a lot to say on modular houses. The first thing being that people 
have been trying to market one in the U.S. for 40 years, and they 
haven't made it yet. The idea is great, but there are lots of problems. 
The typical stud wall house has had 80 or 90 years of refinement. 
They are pretty efficient. What modular prefabs need is about 5 years 
of mass testing & refinement by good construction people and designers. 
The trouble is no one has been able (or wanted) to afford that kind of 
investment yet. 
The economics is tough. After a big capital outlay for a plant, tools, 
storage facilities, design time, volume, sales, and promotion, most pre- 
fab builders find that their product is just as expensive as a house that 
some local carpenter can nail together with no capital outlay. They 
are trying it again though. There is a big prefab housing fair here. And 
nationally ‘‘Operation Breakthrough” is the same thing — developing 
systems, components, and prefab concepts. 
Our office is into low cost housing too. |’m not sure prefab is the 
answer. 
“‘Precut” is a distinct possibility though. There area 
lot of 
precut houses around 
that are really cheap. 
Lindal is one. So is Pan- 
Abode of Renton, Washington. Most of them look and function like 
shit, but are cheaper than prefab. Precut would function on a modu- 
lar type system to be most efficient. 
An idea that | have wanted to explore for some time is a spray-on 
concrete house. 
It would be formed with a web of small re-bars bent 
on the job to the evolving design. The drawings would just be a neb- 
ulous starting point. After bending the bars to form a rough shell- 
shape, a layer of metal lath would be wired to the bars, and the whole 
thing could be shot with concrete like a swimming pool. Windows 
and doors and ventilation are the biggest problem. 
It would probably 
look like a big snail, and it could be semi-buried. 
Very organic. 
|’m 
surprised that Wright never got on that trip. Everyone could do their 
own house with a few simple rules of thumb about spans — cheap. 
Also no architects, which wouldn't be a bad thing. 
| really hate domes. Not for convention centers or big buildings, or 
radar domes, but for houses they really turn me off. No matter how 
logical and neat they are as a shell, they are a shell, and to make small 
ones to live in is inefficient from the viewpoint of human relating to 
dome. Lots of bad vibes from seeing one stuck out on a prairie. 
Would rather do a very organic snail-form and tuck it into ground 3 
or 4 feet. Domes are technology imposed on old Mother Earth, and 
no matter what Fuller says, they will never be “of the earth’. 
Jay Anderson 
Honolulu, Hawaii 
Ds 
The usable garden area is 400 square feet, more than adequate 
to produce all the fresh fruit and vegetables an average family 
can eat. 
(Fruit trees are sold which have five different kinds of 
fruit on them.) The garden is in a tropical environment, but 
since the system is closed, almost no water is consumed. The 
garden is self-sustaining and independent of the outside envi- 
ronment with respect to temperature and water. All it needs 
is sunlight. 
The membrane consists of three layers. First, an outer skin of 
16 mil clear vinyl. This is the protection against the wind and 
rain. The angle of the membrane allows it to shed snow and 
dust. Then, thermal insulation is provided by a 3 inch thick 
layer of clear acrylic foam. The cell (bubble) size is 1/2 inch 
and the cell walls are very thin, so that at least 70% of the sun- 
light gets through. The thermal conductivity of the foam is 
less than .2 BTU per hr. square ft.°F. The third layer is a 
paint that is clear to visible light but white to infra-red radia- 
tion. This traps the infra-red radiation inside the biosphere. 
The estimated cost of materials for the biosphere breaks down 
as follows. 
For a house with 1,000 square feet of floor space, 
the membrane area required in New Mexico is 700 square feet: 
plywood grid 
16 mil vinyl 
acrylic bubbles 
infra-red paint 
aluminum foil 
fasteners 
miscellaneous 
TOTAL 
36¢ per square foot, or, $250.00 
For a lifetime of 10 years, this is $25.00 per year. Except for 
the vinyl, the lifetime is at least 10 years. 
It should not be dif- 
ficult to find a substitute for the vinyl, glass if nothing else. 
11¢ (a wire grid would be cheaper) 
9 per square foot 
J>vwona 
The work to be undertaken is to make the acrylic foam and the 
infra-red paint. | have been in touch with people at the Rohm 
and Hass labs who are making acrylic foams with a much small- 
er cell size. | have made foams of uniform 1/2 inch cell size and 
very thin walls from gelatin, soap and water. They look just 
like frozen soap bubbles that don’t pop when you touch them 
and last for months. 
| have reason to believe it will not be dif- 
ficult to translate the foaming or bubble blowing process into 
acrylic, which may be processed in most of the ways plastics 
can be processed. 
The Russians have made a tin oxide coating for glass that is 
transparent to visible light yet a mirror to infra red. An acrylic 
paint with a tin oxide pigment would probably be a cheap and 
satisfactory infra-red pain but this must be experimentally in- 
vestigated. 
ANNOUNCEMENT 
The Soleri Show has traveled 
and is now in New York City. 
It’s at 
The Whitney Museum of American Art 
(fourth floor) 
Madison Avenue and 75th Street 
New York, N.Y. 
and 
The Reese-Palley Gallery 
93 Prince Street 
New York, N.Y. 
Show started July 17 
and will run 8 weeks through 
the middle of September. 
A PROPOSAL 
Solar energy and hydroelectric power are the only non-pollut- 
ing energy sources, Hydroelectric power is near its capacity 
and solar energy has not been widely used because of the high 
capital investment of solar heating. 
: 
The biosphere is designed to provide solar heat and food for a 
dwelling in below freezing weather. 
It consumes no water, so 
areas that are uninhabitable because of lack of water or fuel or 
short growing season would be habitable. The estimated cost 
for materials is 25¢ per square foot of floor space of the house. 
The estimated lifetime is ten years. For a 1,000 square foot 
house (average family size) this comes to $25.00 per year for 
heat, fresh vegetables, and fruit. This cost is less than one- 
third the cost of the cheapest solar heaters now in operation. 
The problem in building a biosphere is essentially the problem 
of how good a membrane can be built that is transparent to 
light yet is also a thermal insulation. The aircap used in the 
growhole which is now functioning at Llama is adequate for a 
solar heated greenhouse but a more efficient membrane is re- 
quired for the biosphere, which must also heat a house. — 
| estimate it will cost $1,800.00 to make the first piece of this 
material. The expenses are as follows: 
$100.00 per week, salary 
$ 30.00 per week, phone (The making of acrylic foams is 
a state of the art process, which means it’s in people’s 
heads, not in print. Thus the phone bill.) 
$ 20.00 per week, supplies and equipment (This figure is 
low because the manufacturing process is fairly simple and 
involves no expensive machinery —— This technology will 
be cheaply accessible.) 
TOTAL: $150.00 per week. 
The study should take about 12 weeks (although it is hard to 
know exactly) for a'total expense of $1,800.00. Two prob- 
lems will be investigated: the blowing of acrylic bubbles and 
the finding of a good material to make the bubbles opaque to 
infra-red radiation. 
| would guess the odds for success at about 3 to 1. If it is suc- 
cessful, it will then be possible to build a biosphere. 
Day Chahroudi 
224 Montoya Street 
Bernalillo, New Mexico 87004 
About Paolo Soleri 
Soleri was born in Torino, Italy 50 years.ago. He was an 
honors graduate in architecture and went to Taliesin to work 
with Wright. He didn’t last too long there and ended up on 
a mountain side outside Scottsdale 
in a tent with a fellow 
former-apprentice. After marrying he went back to Italy for 
a while and then returned to Scottsdale in 1954. 
If you want 
more of that kind of background try to get hold of the catalog 
to his show at the Corcoran Galleries in Washington, D.C. 
Soleri began building earth-form concrete houses and drawing 
and making ceramic wind bells. He draws on great rolls of 
butcher paper in crayon and what he draws are viscious. 
It 
must have been in the late 50’s that he began to attract ap- 
prentices who came and lived and made bells (he expanded 
into bronze-casting) and made models and helped get other 
structures underway or finished. About 8 or 9 summers ago 
students started spending summers with Soleri in a program 
with Arizona State called Silt Piles. They built the buildings 
that now comprise the Cosanti Foundation. 
| can imagine a scenario for Soleri starting his thing: He’s 
rapping with some friends and one says, ‘‘what if . 
. .?” and 
Soleri sits there awile and then says, ‘*... yeahhhh....” 
and gets up and walks out. 
We saw his show at the Corcoran; the program (catalog?) 
(thing?) that goes with the show was something else. It de- 
serves listing with his book; it’s better done in some ways 
than the book but then it’s also another thing itself. The 
show was too much. It’s supposed to travel but the scope 
and sheer weight and logistics of even setting it up the first 
time must have been. 
. 
. 
. It’s supposed to travel anyway and 
maybe it can come your way /see note/. The best way is to 
visit Scottsdale | guess; will there be pilgrimage trails? 
Ron Williams 
ONYX 
New York, N.Y. 
