Against AAA 
There was a suggestion in the March 1970 supplement about AAA. 
The advantages listed were (1) free towing, battery jumps, emergency 
gas delivery; (2) free up-to-date maps; (3) insurance discounts; and 
(4) bail for misdemeanor traffic charges. 
What was not mentioned is that AAA has long been notorious in its 
push for more and more freeways, and vehemently against any efforts 
to divert some gas tax money to the alternatives, such as fast and 
pleasant mass transit. 
If you get sick of reading their propaganda in 
their monthly magazine (as | did a couple of years ago), you might 
consider not renewing your membership (load up on free maps first). 
You can buy towing insurance from your own insurance company 
whose rates (in my_case, anyway) were cheaper and you can carry 
jumper cables (mine are five years old, work fine, and cost me 79 
cents). 
| dan't know what to do about bail. For up-to-date maps, 
your card-carrying friends generally are happy to get them for you. 
Bury the Embarcadero freeway! 
Lance J. Hoffman 
Menlo Park, CA 
CO Jobs 
1 am writing in response to a letter from Randy Chakerian of Seattle, 
Washington which appears on page twelve of the January 1970 issue 
of the Whole Earth Catalog. Mr. Chakerian writes: 
“... there area 
hundred agencies around the country for helping you get a CO classi- 
fication, but none to help you find a half-way decent job after- 
wards. ...” 
Enclosed find page from the Fall 1969 World Service Bulletin, pub- 
lished by the Unitarian Universalist Service Committee, Inc., 78 
Beacon St., Boston, Mass. 02108. Circled article discusses two of 
their publications, the !-W Job Finder and the !-W Manual (which is 
now in print), specifically designed to assist CO’s in finding civilian 
work. 
UUSC has become the major clearing house in the United States for 
job information suited to particular needs of Conscientious Objectors 
(1-0 registrants) looking for alternative service. 
“A major new phase of UUSC’s program is coordinating and pu blish- 
ing the -W Job Finder, the only regularly printed bulletin listing 
available jobs that would provide two years of alternative service,‘ 
reports CO Placement Coordinator Antony Lob. “This bulletin will 
be distributed nationwide about once a month on a subscription 
basis to groups counseling COs.” 
Paul Crapo 
Waltham, Massachusetts 
~ 
@ 
Ham Telegrams 
While | was in Halifax, | saw a notice on the bulletin board 
in the Dalhousie University Student Union Building. You 
may already be aware of its general contents, but I’m going 
to lay it on you anyway. 
It read as follows: 
Free Telegrams 
(all messages are kept confidential) 
Anyone wishing to send a message to friends or relatives 
in the U.S. or Canada may do so free by calling 
429-9715 
(a local Halifax number) between 6 and 11 P.M. any night 
and asking for the ham radio operator. This service is pro- 
vided free by “hams in the U.S. 
1 enclose this notice because on p. 48 of your March issue, 
Bill Levy writes ‘’I’m getting tired of rapping out weather re- 
ports to morons.” Perhaps public notification in your Cata- 
log that this free telegram service was available would alleviate 
Bill and his fellow hams of some of their boredom as well as 
providing a useful service. 
If you don’t know a ham in your area, the people at the Amer- 
ican Radio Relay League, Newington, Connecticut 06111 (the 
address Bill gives) could give you the name and phone num- 
_ber of one. 
y 
Dave Keirstead 
Saint John, N.B. 
Canada 
Libraries 
One of the things that struck me when | first encountered the catalog 
was that many of the books you have suggested or others have suggest- 
ed are in the collection of even the tiny branch that | work at. The 
point being that Americans don’t use or appreciate the libraries that 
their taxes support. A good strong plug for people to use the library 
first to find material (saves buying a book sight unseen and being dis- 
satisfied) and reference to further material and places to look for it 
would be an aid to those needing information. Granted one in the 
wilds of the backwoods has little opportunity to stroll down the block 
to his local library however most people still have contact once and 
a while with some sort of town. Now many states have a complete 
regional library system that allows one to borrow books from anywhere 
in the state. This process is only as slow as the mail and the librarian’s 
willingness to help. | know the average person's image of librarians is 
of a crotchety old maid etc. and this | would have to agree with. But 
things are moving pretty fast back there in the stacks (how many of us 
were conceived there), there are hundreds of younger hip librarians 
and library students invading these tombs of learning. One thing 
they've found is the older librarians are bitchy because they are frus- 
trated radicals from another era. The resistence to suggestion and 
criticism from the youth in library circles has not only been low, but 
the most flaming radical has been welcomed as an ally by older librar- 
ians. The concept of librarianship as custodians of books is out the 
window. The job is now getting information and IDEAS to the peo- 
ple. The smaller the branch the more the librarian is eager to help. 
One, he’s all alone and has few colleagues to help insulate him from 
. 
the outside; two younger people don’t enjoy the hack work that has 
in the past been the librarian’s excuse for lack of time to service the 
public. 
It’s a good feeling when you help a person take a step closer 
to knowing himself and his world and librarians aren't insensitive to 
this. We have all the modern technology at our figure tips though 
sometimes we have to be prodded to use it. Like, why buy BOOKS 
IN PRINT when your library has it (it isn’t complete either; ask any- 
one in the publishing industry). Virtually all libraries are your en- 
trance to the Library of Congress. 
Warren L. King 
Free Library of Philadelphia 
Philadelphia, PA 
—~_@=™ 
: 
Hes 
Nin : 
oe 
MA 
Intelligent Computers 
I’ve been bumming around the country lately, trying to see where | 
would lead me. And of course one of the places | eventually would 
up was inside my own head, the primary content of which is a lot of 
scientific information that I'd never really sorted through before. 
My latest flash was about computers, which | do know alittle about 
already. Specifically about intelligent computers, which nobody 
knows anything about. 
It involved assembling what ! know about 
neurochemistry (my main field of scientific interest) with a lot of 
stuff about animal behavioral psychology and the history of the de- 
velopment of mathematics and a dash of Zen. The result was that | 
scared the shit out of myself and quit before | had translated it all 
into machine language, which | don’t know anyway. 
The point is that it is too valuable to lose and too powerful to let 
IBM or the Pentagon come up with it on their own, especially since 
it looks like the only way an intelligent computer could remain sane 
would be if it believed itself to BE the planet earth. 
| would like to sit down with a bona fide computer genius with an 
island psychology and a bit of stock in the human race and try to work 
this thing through with him. 
Ken Colstad 
Hardin, Montana 
I know just the man, Ken Colstad, — S.B. 
Keith Gilbert 
Over one month ago we sent a letter to Keith Gilbert about 
the Charlottes — yesterday we received the enclosed letter — 
it seems that even the Rabbi's mail is opened. Has this hap- 
pened to others? Please let all know of this before they 
start sending info & questions to Keith as we did. 
State of California — 
Human Relations Agency 
Ronald Reagan, Governor 
Department of Corrections 
CALIFORNIA STATE PRISON 
San Quentin, California 94964 
July 3, 1970 
Mr. & Mrs. Howard Davis 
East Lempster, New Hampshire 
03605 
RE: GILBERT, Keith 
B-4.754 
et 
Dear Mr. & Mrs. Davis: 
It is extremely necessary for you to cease and desist any _ 
further correspondence with our inmate GILBERT. This is 
illegal and not approved by San Quentin Prison’s Mail Regu- 
lations. 
; 
Thank you for your courtesy in this vital matter. We pre- 
fer not to receive mail for GILBERT from you again. 
— 
i 
Yours very truly, 
eal 
L.S. Nelson 
re 
WARDEN 
-) 
By: 
Wayne A. Bartels 
Associate Warden 
Classification & Treatment 
Lilies and Lotus 
The Van Ness Watér Gardens carries a wonderful selection of 
_ 
Water Lilies — both hardy and tropical and also the sacred 
Lotus — they will send you a free catalog on request-and there- 
in you will find beautiful pictures and descriptions of the tilies 
and lotus they offer. 
Also in this catalog you will find complete instructions on 
growing lilies, their requirements and information alsoon 
building lily ponds — curing them — planting and natural bal- 
ance of apond. They also sell many beautiful goldfish — wa- 
ter plants and snails. There is a list of helpful books in there 
also! 
‘ 
In my limited dealing with them they have been very nice to 
me and very pleasant to deal with. You can visit the Gardens 
on Thurs., Fri., Sat. only between 8:00AM — 5:00 PM — the 
other days are closed because of packing and shipping because 
they ship all over the world. Address of Water Gardens — 
Van Ness Water Gardens 
2460 N. Euclid Avenue 
Upland, California 91786 
Phone — (714) 982-2425 
They also are familiar with the organic growing method and 
practice it also. 
|
Having a frog pond gives such joy and serenity! Visiting the 
Zen Temples in Kyoto gave such a indescribable feeling espe~ 
cially the peaceful ponds! | hope this information opens new 
experiences for-people. 
Paul & Toni Goldenberg 
La Habra Heights, CA 
RE: WHOLE EARTH CATALOGUE 
What a great idea! 
And what lousy execution! 
Whatever became of such simple virtues in publishing as: 
organization, simplicity, readability ? 
This has got to be the biggest publishing mess that was ever 
foisted on an unsuspecting public. 
If it’s a put-on, the joke’s over. Now, for God's sake, print 
something that is readable and salvage a good merchandising 
concept. 
JFH/It 
John Hinde 
Toronto, Ontario 
Canada 
at 
2 
7° comment * 
