INCREASE YOUR INCOME 
CHICKEN MANURE SOURCE: Strombergs has a catalog list- 
ing and illustrating all kinds of chickens to “increase your income”. 
It’s a good catalog, but Strombergs also sells ocelots, chipmunks, 
monkeys, owls and other “pets” which seems like another one of 
man’s techniques for spoiling the earth. — Ed. 
For catalog, write to Stromberg’s 
Box 717 
Fort Dodge, lowa 50501 
OUT-PUT YOUR INCOME 
CHICKEN MANURE FUEL: “Put a chicken in your tank” 
may never match the zap of Esso’s ‘’Put a tiger in your tank”’ 
slogan. But British inventor Harold Bate will tell you that 
chicken power will run your car faster, cleaner and better 
than gasoline. 
Bate has found a way of converting chicken droppings into 
gas — and runs his automobile on it. 
By processing methane gas from rotted chicken manure and 
feeding it to the engine through a special device he invented, 
Bate says he has managed to drive his 1953 Hillman at speeds 
up to 75 m.p.h. without the use of gasoline. 
At his farmhouse in Devon, Bate, 62, told an ENOUIRER 
reporter: 
“This is the thing of the future . 
. 
. all you need is a couple 
of buckets of manure, a tin drum and my carburetor con- 
version device, and you’re in business,”’ 
Bate’s ‘‘chicken coupe” has been investigated and upheld by 
the British Ministry of Transport. 
“We've looked into it,” Frank Standing, information officer 
for the ministry told the ENQUIRER, “and the device works 
perfectly. 
“However, as to mass use, that seems doubtful. There is 
simply not enough of a supply of chicken manure to pro- 
vide fuel for autos on a mass basis.’ 
Bate’says he has been running his car and five-ton truck on 
the methane gas — as well as heating his home with it — for 
years. 
“The method is really very simple,” Bate said. ‘You just 
put about three buckets of manure into a sealed oil drum. 
Put a small oil heater under the drum to keep the manure 
at a steady 80 degrees. 
“There are two microbes in the manure which, when heated, 
eat each other — this produces the gas. 
“You can collect the gas in bottles or in plastic balloons for 
storage. Then all you do is feed the methane through an 
adapter into your carburetor — and you've got chicken pow- 
er. 
“| keep replenishing my manure supply. | run my car for 
about six months before | clean out the tank and start with 
fresh dung.” 
Bate said the conversion from gasoline to methane power 
can be made in two hours and requires no special tools. The 
only engine alteration required is the installation of Bate’s 
patented device which feeds the methane from the bottle 
to the carburetor. 
The gas, sucked into the engine by the cylinders, is ignited 
in the usual manner by the spark plugs to produce power. 
Methane is not only cheap and efficient, said the inventor, 
but it is better for your car — no carbon deposit on your 
cylinders and no engine wear and no poisonous carbon 
monoxide fumes. 
Bate sells his auto conversion device — with instructions 
on how to manufacture your own methane — for about 
$14. 
hie? 
(Taken from National Enquirer June 1970) 
HEALING IS FOR TO BE DONE! 
You know that vitamin B3 (nicotinic acid or niacin) is the 
fastest, cheapest, most effective and most natural, non-dam- 
aging agent for ending an LSD experience — for “‘coming 
down.”” 
“Megavitamin’’ therapy (use of high, regular doses of Bee 
anywhere from 3 to 20 grams daily — sometimes with equal 
amounts of vitamin C and/or other agents) is also a cure for 
several major diseases. 
B3 is the core of a new therapy for curing ‘“‘schizophrenia;” 
(for the first practical, clinical definition of “schiz- 
ophrenia” as a disease, and for good definition of 
“megavitamin’’ therapy, see book, How to Live 
With Schizophrenia, Abram Hoffer & Humphry 
Osmond (University Books, N.Y., 1965) — written 
as a handbook for schizophrenics and family and 
friends who wish to help bring them back to ‘‘nor- 
mality’’; probably hints, sometimes knowingly & 
sometimes not, about more miraculous possibilities 
than any book I've read) 
B3 cures arthritis and rheumatism; 
(Turn on a grandmother with B3 and C! It’s a high 
by itself — and it heals. 
It’s also cheap & harmless. 
The authority on this use of B3, who first published 
conclusive results 25 years ago, is: Dr. William 
Kaufman, 540 Brooklawn Ave., Bridgeport, Conn.) 
B3 is acure for aspects of alcoholism; 
(it removes depression which impels many to drink; 
it prevents excessive alcohol consumption; it con- 
trols and stops, quickly & neatly, delirium tremens 
— the “‘d.t.s” 
See another Hoffer & Osmond book, New Hope for 
Alcoholics (University Books, N.Y., 1968), which 
is the authoritative source for information on the 
best, most effective alcoholism cure yet: LSD ther- 
apy — to which Bg is an important adjunct. 
See also the manual issued for the physicians of 
Alcoholics Anonymous by the AA founder, Bill W., 
P.O. Box 461, Bedford Hills, N.Y. 10507 — but 
don’t tell him-| know it’s AA connected; he wants 
it to be anonymous... 
. Manual on B3 in relation 
to alcoholism & other maiadies . 
. .) 
B3 prevents senility and, where caught in time, reverses it; 
Bg is acure for several heart conditions, controlling “lipids” 
— the cholesterol level in blood, etc. (Currently 
being used extensively in this area by the National 
Heart Institute in a long-term, comparative test of 
effectiveness, etc.) 
a 
TO J.D. FROM IGOR 
A short time ago you ordered the 3-View Drawings, Photos, 
and Specifications of the Bensen Gyrocopter.. By now you 
have had time to study them and to decide that, like many 
others, you too, can build and fly this simple and popular 
whirlybird. Why don’t you go ahead now and order your 
detailed Construction Plans with Building and Flying Man- 
uals? | can still make them available to you for just $27.00, 
for a limited additional time. The joy and fun of personal 
flying can be yours so easily if you act now! 
As a BONUS, if you order within the next 10 days, | will 
make a gift 
to you of a one-year Membership in the Popular 
Rotorcraft Association. By special arrangement with P.R.A., 
this $9.00 membership will entitle you to receive free for 
one year, a subscription to their Magazine, POPULAR RO- 
TORCRAFT FLYING. 
If you are already a member of 
P.R.A., this $9.00 contribution will extend your member- 
ship for another year. 
Here is what Mr. Roy Clifford of Michigan, one of many 
enthusiastic owners of Bensen Gyrocopters, said about his 
bird: 
“I have owned eight airplanes .. 
. but it wasn’t until 
today that | made my first flight in a Bensen. To say that I 
was delighted and fascinated is the understatement of the 
year. Never in all these years of flying have | been so thrilled! 
... 
Aworking man can easily afford it, and it is so simple 
that a novice can be in the air in perfect safety in only a 
few hours.” 
Just think! Now you, too, can zip through the air, free as a 
bird, in your own Gyro. Others are doing it, so why not 
you? Don’t say, “! can’t afford it’ because you can build 
and fly a Bensen at a very low cost, Order the Construction 
Pland now on a 10-Day no-risk inspection trial. If you are 
not completely satisfied, return the plans to me within 10 
DAYS, and your money will be refunded. Fair enough?— 
then give it a try. Be a man of action, 
ORDER NOW! 
Sincerely, 
Dr. Igor B. Bensen, P.E. 
President 
P.S. 
If you order the Plans withing the next 10-days, ! will 
send you still another gift: aset of Rotor Trim Tabs, which 
are an important part of the Gyrocopter. Don’t let this op- 
portunity slip by! 1BB 
FREE CLINICS EVERYWHERE — pencils, stamps, envelopes 
and minds ready! 
A relatively simple diagnostic test based on a urine analysis 
is now available'which can detect the presence of a factor 
— which causes the well-known (well-feared 
.. .) ““psy- 
chotic” reaction to LSD 
— which indicates the presence of schizophrenia 
— which is present in the majority of chronic alcoholics 
(who must, therefore, be cured of “malvarianism” — 
by megavitamin therapy — before they can take LSD 
therapy) 
In other words, you can predict the occurence of a psychotic 
reaction, you can prevent it (by knowing it), and you can 
cure it (by the megavitamin therapy, cheap and easy, described 
in the doctors’ manual on the subject of schizophrenia, alco- 
holism, and the “malvarian” factor — that’s the name of the 
nasty — 
(manual) available from: 
Dr. Abram Hoffer 
800 Spadina Crescent E. 
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada 
or: 
Dr. Humphry Osmond, Director 
Bureau of Research in Neurology & 
Psychiatry 
Box 1000 
Princeton, New Jersey. 
To everyone everywhere with burns 
who might get burned 
who wants to be prepared in any case: 
Have somewhere within reach, then, at all times, a good 
supply of Vitamin E (d-alpha tocopherol) in oil form (not 
just “wheat germ oil’’ or whatever; make sure it’s the real 
stuff) in 100 mg or 1.U. (or higher) capsules. When burned, 
pierce capsule with needle, apply oil directly to burn. If 
burns are extensive, take internally, too. 
Vitamin E (d-alpha tocopherol) stops pain immediately on 
application, and heals as quickly as applied (if applied im- 
mediately, a small burn will completely disappear within an 
hour or two; if delayed, healing will take that much longer). 
See Adelle Davis, Let’s Get Well. 
ence and observation. 
See also personal experi- 
47 
Daniel Marston 
Byfield, Rugby, 
Warwickshire, England 
