pil Living Stuff Ca 
Seaweed Green Toothpaste? 
Last time | wrote | mentioned Army maps of the world at 1:250,000. 
Well the Army says they aren't available for public use. However, they 
are in the library at the University of Pittsburgh and so | imagine they 
are available in other libraries. And if you want them bad enough you 
can always Xerox them. 
Some info on items mentioned previously by others: 
1) P. 12 Jan. '70 Supplelog: CATHAY FOOD PRODUCTS, INC. 
New address: 
31 N. Moore Street 
New York, New York 10004 
2) P. 10 Jan.’70 Catament: SPILLER AXE & TOOL CO., INC, 
New address: 
Oakland, Maine 04963 
New Items: 
1) International Yellow Pages: Access to tools from other lands; 
clearly limited to subscribers (i.e., those companies who pay to 
be listed) but useful nonetheless. Must list nearly 2000 different 
product areas. 
2 
Ceramic Reference Manual by Glenn C. Nelson (Burgess Publ. Co., 
Minneapolis, Minnesota). The edition I’ve seen is 1957 so isa 
bit. 
dated but provides list of required (?) materials and where to get 
“em as well as many important (but | don’t know how accurate) 
“recipes” and explanations (on clays and glazes). 
3 Chemicals Used in Food Processing, Publication 1274, National 
Academy of Sciences — National Research Council, 1965, $6.50. 
Food Protection Committee, Food and Nutrition Board (also, see 
Publ. 398 The Use of Chemical Additives in FoodProcessing and 
Publ. 887 The Use of Chemicals in Food Production, Processing, 
Storage, and Distribution). While these books are horror stories of 
@ modern sort, they can be useful tools in the following ways: 
1) They can scare the shit out of a Jot of people and get them to 
eat good food. 
2) Can provide info to crusaders on what foods to search for what 
foul chemicals (to be relayed by appropriate pressure to the 
powers that be). 
3) Provides listing of natural occurances of chemicals, so natural 
folks can find source which is less disturbing. 
4) Provides list of other relevant materials. 
5) Explains functions of chemicals, something labels never do 
(except for word like ‘‘preservative’’). 
4) Natural Brand Tooth Paste available at General Nutrition Centers 
and by mail from Natural Sales Co., Box 25, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15230,: 
U.S.A. 7.25 oz. (BIG) tube, 98¢. Composition: bone meal, papain 
(extract of papayas), pure natural seaweed extract (maybe for color 
‘cause paste is seaweed green), and natural oil of peppermint. Good 
stuff, need less than normal toothpaste. Good find since my favor- 
ite toothpasts (McCleans and Ultrabrite) contain huge amounts of 
chloroform (and who wants lipstick on their cheeks all the time?) 
5 How to Fix Almost Everything, Stanley Schuler, Pocket Books, 
$.75. Not really terrific, but useful. 
Reason not terrific is that 
for complicated jobe, he always says take it to a repair shop. Still 
provides many useful hints on wide variety of subjects, and of 
particular use to noviate fix-it man. 
Examples: 
How to fix damaged arrow feathers 
How to fix fountain pen 
How to fix a faucet (Drip, Drip, Drip, Drip. . ‘) 
How to fix a stone wall. 
Jim Alt 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
e 
—~ Lo” 2 Se 6 wy 
e 
Outlaw Area Note 
Some thoughts about the Outlaw Area... 
It is a mistake to assume 
that the outlaw area is only in those places where other people 
aren't... as far as! know ANYTHING GOES ANYWHERE... 
in 
some places some things are given and in others, others .. 
. if you 
want to live in a natural wilderness area then you are opting for 
natural variables to deal with e.g. wind, cold, etc. 
... if you live in 
the midst of what Edward Hall calls the behavioral sink e.g. S.F. bay 
area, New York, etc. then you have got other people to deal with. 
. 
. 
The Outlaw Area is a state of mind and exists in the middle of civili- 
Zation or in the wilderness. 
. 
. this seems important because we cer- 
tainly need outlaws to learn how to make it in the center of The Man’s 
camp ...‘’Anything goes” there too except that the “laws of society” 
take the place of, or exist in addition to, the “‘laws of nature”’ (there 
really is no difference between them) 
. 
. 
. it is necessary to realize 
this in order to get the Outlaw Area out of the fantasy state 
. 
. 
. every- 
one lives in the outlaw area right now. 
. 
. most of us have made deals 
in one way or another so we don’t TRY to get away with things... 
there is nothing to get away with... the Outlaw Area is real and we 
live in it all the time... “Laws” are just made by other people and 
they can be fooled long enough if 
you've got something to do which 
is the whole thing. . 
. panic makes us drop everything but “survival” 
... it is not necessary to flee to some Outlaw Area or other just to 
convince us that it’s there. 
. 
. we are already there whether we go 
somewhere else or not... the Outlaw Area is not a fantasy . 
. 
. let's 
not live it as a fantasy... 
Also, regarding ‘‘Bum Trip Conversion” the best advice | know of is 
from Hexagram 43 of the / Ching (Breakthrough). 
’’.. 
. we should 
not combat our own faults directly. The best way to fight evil is to 
make energetic progress in the good. ...” 
Tony Bernhard 
Winters, CA 
tuker Irora TAFE 
(1990) 
Acid Psalm 
In your January Supplement you requested that readers send 
in their favorite remedies for bummers. My favorite is recit- 
ing the 23rd Psalm (either silently or aloud). 
Also recommended: Metaphysical Meditations by Paramahansa 
Yogananda (one of the best 60¢ buys in the cosmic universe). 
x 
es, 
Norman Caplan 
k 
# 
HUGE SMILES 
ee 
Dear Whole Earth, 
7 
| would like to review/suggest one service which has been lacking in 
your/our catalogue. 
In general, the inexpensive dental work offered by schools of dentistry 
and more specifically, the good work offered by the University of the 
Pacific’s School of Dentistry located at 2155 Webster Street in San 
Francisco. 
The U. of P.’s student clinic does work at around 1/3 the price of a 
dentist on the outside. The work is done by students supervised by a 
doctor. You are charged for the materials used... 
. an amalgam, a reg 
ular ‘silver’ filling costs about $7.00. The greatest savings are in gold, 
having gold inlays, onlays, foils, and caps. Costs run a quarter of what 
you would pay outside. 
The procedure is that you come in to have an oral examination at 
which time they will decide if they will take you — then you are given 
to astudent.. You and he fill out a form or two,and decide on a work- 
able schedule, then you are given an appointment for full mouth X- 
rays (these are required and cost $15). After that, about two weeks, 
your work is begun. 
| have been catching up with my dental needs for almost a year with 
several vacations intersperced (like being in the Sierra all summer with 
two return trips since... .) — they are very accommodating. They 
take more time than a real dentist, however their price makes up for 
the time. 
This sounds like a rave letter, | guess, it probably is... 1! have never 
been able to go to a dentist until my teeth started to be more painful 
than my memories of a childhood run-in with a brutal, insensitive old 
dentist. The University of the Pacific’s student who does my work, 
‘Stevie Wonder’, has overcome the deep-rooted fear that | had... 
mostly by explaining each step as he worked. 
| know a lot of hips, yips, freaks, and straights who haven't the money 
to pay a dentist, but who do have the time and can scrape together 
enough bread for the minimal cost of a dental school. 
There is one service that they do not offer — mail order... 
Perhaps you could list such services in other cities where the nomad 
can have himself put back in order. 
Medical schools offer the same type of service... they should be 
reviewed. 
Huge"Smiles seats 
st "aatehis 
From 
Jan Tiura 
Moss Beach, CA 
The Tao, and Healing 
Tracy McCallum (is that you, Tracy?) is right. The translation of the 
Tao Te Ching you recommend is unsatisfactory. Of course, so is the 
~ 
one he recommends. Trouble with the Tao Te Ching is that there are 
No satisfactory translations. None whatsoever. Thing to do is get hold 
of as many different translations as you can find (there's at least a 
dozen in paperback) and eventually compile your own composite trans- 
lation therefrom. 
It’s no good, the Tao Te Ching, until you've made 
your own translation. 
ete 
About acid bummers &c.: 
Assume that human beings are energy devices. Assume that your 
; 
|
right hand is a positive pole, your left a negative (vice versa if you're 
left-handed). Assume that headaches, bummers & the like are symp- 
toms of minor disturbances in energy flow. (These assumptions are 
not necessarily true. Just a useful metaphor, a convenient way to 
think, that works.) 
To Cure a headache, place your positive hand at the base of the suffer- 
er’s skull and your negative hand on his forehead. 
Imagine there isa 
current flowing through his head from your positive hand to your 
negative hand, and that this current causes the flow in the sufferer’s 
head to straighten out & flow right, thus terminating his headache. 
This takes from 5 to 30 seconds. 
This works, whether the operator believes it will or not, and regardless 
of what the sufferer believes. 
(Beautiful cries of “My God! 
It’s 
{ 
GONE!” are commonplace.) The only requirement is the act of 
imagination. 
|f you imagine it'll work, it works. 
I've used the same process on about 50 acid bummers so far, with 100% 
success. 
Variations can be invented freely to suit various circumstances. 
This is traditionally called ‘‘Magnetic Healing,”’ 
| prefer to call it & 
related phenomena ‘’Energy Transactions.” Very useful in Magick & 
other western yogas. 
Invent your own techniques. Please tel! me what happens. 
Relief is probably symptomatic, but saves on aspirin & similar crap. 
Chester Anderson 
/
Los Angeles, CA 
Aloe Vera for the Skin 
Try Aloe Vera on diaper rash (or any skin problem up to and 
|
including 3rd degree burns. |t cuts healing time by 1/2. We've 
used it on deep cuts also — no stitches, no.scars. 
Fantastic on 
burns. Apply liberally, smothering wound in thick salve found 
within each leaf. 
; 
: 
Looks like small Spanish dagger or small green juicy agave. 
Thick juicy leaves, with sawtooth edges. 
To remove leaf, pull down and away. 
Try Bantam (steel head— faithful lock) diaper pins. 
Also, stop cooking your food. 
Mattei, Penne, Tony, Hum 
Phoenix, Arizona 
—LI OO 
Down on Singer 
Re: a suggestion in Michael Wells’ letter, p. 16, March issue, that 
Singer deserves a pat on the back. 
Singer deserves it not, neither for the machine it now makes nor for 
for its service & sales outlets — at least the Stockton & Polk Street 
stores in S.F. 
| don't know what the commercial-use machines are 
like, and-until a few years.ago | would have agreed that the machine 
for home use was fine. 
|t truly was, and until | came to California | 
thought the service and also ther esale value of machines just super- 
fine — so maybe there are still nice stores. The two! mentioned in 
S.F. are characteristically rude and unreliable, and if you get caught 
in an emergency there is no special attention available — unless they 
hope to sell you a Touch ‘n Sew. Other repair men in town will work 
overtime to fix those damned Touch 'n Sews (I own one) if you tell 
them you need it — truly. Independent repair men will also tell you 
that there are better machines available than the Touch ‘n Sew, which 
is now widely available second-hand very cheap due to its several de- 
fects, one of which is that the tension device tends to become screwy. 
So — no resale value. A two year old machine which is in good — even 
unused — condition and cost nearly $400 new is now worth at most 
$150 — and used Singers a few years ago were worth a great deal more 
of their original price than that. 
A Singer man once told me that Singer’s best machines were made bet- 
ter before WW II, along with Singer's reputation, which is now declin- 
ing in the face of some strong competition from the new Elna and. 
Viking machines. 
| know how to use the Touch ‘n Sew, having made a living on one 
for two years, and | take care of mine. 
| don't recommend it, nor 
would | be pleased to see a plug in your good catalog for it. It’s 
not awful, really. 
It’s just not the best available for the money. 
A 
- Dandelion 
"San Francisco, CA. 
". 
nad 
% 
i 
