The Amazing Tetrahedron Tent 
The Amazing Tetrahedron —— a two man mountain-wilderness 
tent of new design in nearly every respect. Utilizing the prin- 
ciple tetrahedron properties of high inside volume per given 
surface area, this tent provides agreeable distribution of inside 
room, stability and ease of setting. Designed with high altitude 
winter conditions in mind, this tent by virtue of its low cost, 
light weight and spaciousness also provides a comfortable sum- 
mer habitation; being fully water tight when fitted with a ny- 
lon rainfly. Standard equipment includes two tunnel doors, 
ant holes, zippered cook hole, coated rainfly and complete 
set of poles and stakes. Fabric is 1.9 oz. ripstop Nylon, the 
floor and walls being of coated Nylon. Further information 
available upon request, or send us your special requirements. 
Tents are built on order and individual preferences are con- 
sidered during construction. Basic price is $80, subject to ad- 
ditions or deletions. 
Tentwt. 
31/2 Ibs. 
Pole wt. 
2 Ibs. 
Fly wt. 
1 1/4 Ibs. 
6 3/4 Ibs. 
The creator of this tent brought one by the Truck Store. 
JD. says he likes it. 
The Amazing Tetrahedron 
Box 8552 
Stanford, CA 94305 
WANTEDWANTED 
VA 
MOLASSES-MAN-HUNT 
Anyone having information 
about the where abouts of 
a Robert Morse or the 
transformer or the molasses 
house secrets — please contact 
the Whole Earth Catalog 
Lost or Found Dept. 
Immediately. 
WANTEDWANTED 
ALNVMCSAIN 
ALN WMCALN Vi 
EXO 
Tent from Virginia 
00 “Tews” 
TT ~ 
ioe yh 1-5 mnt; phat 2.3 Miners 
Some info on the tent | asked you about. 
| wish to advertise the plans 
Yabl - Ks (am 
for sale. 
I'll 
give 
h 
i 
i 
‘ 
give you the design (basic), advantages of the tent (features 
CUMKETE 
- 
CmKeS GuOPLIED — 
BUX OAM WINN: IMP REDNA TED 
geroerin’ 
which separate it from other designs) and random thoughts. 
+ 
SAM TRIAL Chad BS-LAKE LionnatlonT 
PL 
orate 
een 
oe 
43 Rou CangleTE — 
MATERIAL» 
- 
A 
1. Design — modified quonset 
™ 
gore wine \N GACIE 
a 
lt 
is 
J GAS OL 
CONE TL 9d mH 
reno CA 
imeney 
- 
NAN NitT 
CARRY & 
GAG, 
NeTIy 
SMMES ETC. 
+S wEANY 
FoR BUILT 
— 
cet 
iN 
fox 
FraPRLIORK WEES 
TEAT IN AUT SHAPE 
ZVPERED ( LAPS 
FRONT 
VERY WELL ADE. ~ 
“ 
a¥ 
wy! STAKE. LOoR'S 
Lage WArees 
The advantages are bound up with my own philosophy of being out 
Ce rrerions 
doors. The cowling over the back window gives complete rain pro- 
tection, so that with the window open full, cross ventilation is possible 
if it rains you roll over no miunite scurrying. Also the front entrance 
and back window are immense so even in shitty weather you dont 
have to feel boxed in; you can sit inside and groove on the rain. 
The 
AT 
i 
YS 
: 
: 
ent for Motorcycli 
top of the tent of 
‘‘top sides” quonsetly speaking, are made of fully 
rey 
sts 
coated nylon & does not breathe. The back & front are HO repellant 
: 
; 
I've 
ri 
bi 
1 
& do breathe but because of the protective cowlings never really get 
ve tidden abike (motorcycle). tor ebeut fourteen, yeers ain HN AWE 
to see a better one in my thousands of miles than one sold by that 
‘wet. 
down home institution of good ol’ Sears et al. Virtually everyone in 
The frame is made of fiberglas rods 10 sections ea. 28” long, total 
the know in the bike crowd has one. Thought | had the dope about 
weight 14 oz. Because the two guy lines pull on the cowlings and the 
it for model number and all that with me here on the ship (! work on 
cowlings pull equally on the frame it reduces the “‘belly” considerably. | a government ship), but don't. Anyway, it looks a little like a pup 
tent except that the sides are raised; come to think of it, its shape is 
Because the rods are enclosed in the tubes they stand up higher than 
like that of a typical dog house. 
Its floor area is six by eight or nine 
the sides of the tent so if you want to put a space blanket over the 
feet. 
Is made of aviny! impregnated synthetic canvas-like material 
tent to keep off the sun you have a free air space. 
as | recall, and | can attest that it is absolutely waterproof under the 
severest of storm and wind. 
It is blue and orange in color (a yukky 
|f made with a good grade of nylon the tent with the poles should 
_ 
color combination, but you can’t miss being identified when astride 
weigh about 4 to 4 1/4 Ibs. and be able to fit in an area about 6 x 
your bike, since tent comes with zippered enclosure of same color), 
4x5. cigar box? 
and has separate nylon zippered flaps of insect material on the front 
end and also on the window at rear for ventilation. 
It has a floor 
made of similar, but heavier material; there is a three inch high strip 
across the front to repel creepy crawlers and water and other terrible 
liquids. Being of generous dimensions, the tent will sleep two with 
more than enough room for all the usual camping garbage and ac- 
cessories inside. 
I’ve slept three lengthwise with no crowding, and 
by sleeping atwartships, four could be put in without difficulty. The 
real beauty of th’ tent is that it has the external aluminum self sup- 
porting tubing that has a minum of parts and keeps the tent rigidly 
There is one weak point in the design, high winds, but all tents be- 
come foolish in high winds. This weakness can be reduced simply by 
lengthening the cowls till they touch the ground. Possible “in the 
future’’ modifications may include a zip out floor so you could add 
a section and have a stand up version, or doubling the inside dimension 
by running the cowls to the ground, although this limits the size of 
the door and fucks up the shape quite a bit. Anyway | would sell 
plans, instructions, and material suppliers, for those interested. 
John Keary 
supported without use of poles or those damn guy lines staked all 
Box 641 
around to trip you. The tent can be erected in about three minutes 
Virginia Beach, Va. 23451 
and taken down in two; I've literally set up in pitch dark with no 
sweat. The aluminum poles even have a large aluminum washer you 
can use when pitching the tent in sand, etc., to keep the poles from 
giving way into the sand. The whole bundle rolls down into a package 
about twenty inches long and about six to eight inches in diameter; | 
pack mine across the back end of the bike and set it crossways on top 
of the saddlebags; makes a nice neat fit. Tent comes with a set of 
good clear instructions; once you've put it up the first time, the in- 
structions can be dispensed with. 
It’s that simple. 
| recommend this tent primarily for bike people or people with car 
hating motel bills. The tent would not be too suitable for backpack- 
ing because of its weight of thirteen pounds; obviously, this isn't of 
any consequence for bike or car. 
| bought mine in ‘67 and it cost me $55; by now it is probably 
about $60 or so with inflation, but I'd like to see anyone come up 
with half the tent for twice the price. For a bike rider, it’s a must. 
Have seen hundreds of tents that just can’t come near it. And from 
Sears yet! 
Gary D. Christenson 
Seattle, Washington 
It’s a Ted Williams tent. 
Gravity and Domes 
| have two things that | hope someone might be interested 
in. Firstly 
adome system that accounts for gravity. 
(1 enjoy 
the way Fuller perceives but | keep coming up with different 
conclusions.) Upon observing a bubble, for instance, | no- 
ticed it got thinner at the top / evidently thicker towards the 
base (less strength at the top where it is least needed and more 
at the base where it is most needed). Gravity seems to me to 
tot es 
be the greatest single force to build against, or at least, to 
| 
NOIINY 
consider the most in any structure. Building against omni- 
directional forces of equal or almost equal strengths would 
seem to work well in space or where a single force was not 
predominant. The EXPO dome seems to have been altered 
from midway to its base — from geodesic alternate (outer) 
system to a concentric circle system — | presume because of 
gravity (the weight of the dome itself). | would be interested 
in any response, critical or not. The system | discovered doe 
account for gravity. | am unaware of this system being dis- 
covered previously. 
The other thing | hope someone might be interested in isa 
less structurally efficient system. An architectural approach, 
unlike any | am familiar with (including the Zome), this is a 
system for ‘‘non-systems.” 
It reduces the surface of almost 
any form to its most efficient (geodesic) relationships. | am 
in the process of applying this to mountainous forms and am 
also trying to have both systems programmed for computers. 
Vince Kelly 
Tem pe Arizona 
Roger Hayward’s “andecidable” monument 
‘ 
