| 
Organic Foods in Texas 
Write to: 
Green Acres Organic Foods 
1338 Westheimer 
Houston, Texas 77006 
for literature, recipes and prices. 
Vax! 
Mushroom Booklet 
we wrote: 
Information Division 
Canada Department of Agriculture 
Ottawa, Ontario 
and they sent us: Mushroom Collecting for Beginners 
which has 30 pages and 26 photographic illustrations and 
it helps us a lot. 
This is a very useful pamphlet easily taken to the woods. We 
identified some oyster mushrooms, watered them (not a good 
idea as they got too large & kind of tough) & fed 20 people 
on them last weekend. All agreed it was real fine eating & we 
owe it all to our little pamphlet. 
“For instance it is simply not true that if a mushroom 
peels it is good to eat. The most deadly species known, 
the Destroying Angel, which caused over thirty deaths 
: se 
season near New York City, peels very readily.” 
p- 
SHAGGY MANE, p. 13. ‘‘Mild illness has on rare occa- 
sions been reported as a result of eating this species. 
There is some evidence that this result was associated 
with the consumption of alcohol at the same time. . . 
It is fairly common... on... city dumps.” 
There are 26 photographs most of which show several angles 
& types of each species, both edible and poisonous, and it 
also tells how to take field spore prints. 
And they also sent me: my quarter back. 
Nan & Randy 
Concrete, Washington 
ASM.) 
The Oak Ridge Organic Herb Farm, RR #1, Box 461, Alton, 
Illinois 62002, is a relatively young operation specializing in 
organically grown herbs, vegetables and flowers. They claim 
to stock over 150 varieties. They also keep a stock of herbals 
and books on folk medicine, organic gardening and herb grow- 
ing. The farm, in Fosterburg, Illinois and the warehouse in 
Piasa, Illinois (both just north-east of St. Louis, Mo.) are run 
by. the Howes family and friends and they are pretty serious 
about growing things without using man-made poisons. 
New Organic Source 
They are operating on a shoe-string but are committed to 
making a go of it. | have purchased seeds, live plants and 
dried herbs from them and have been completely satisfied. 
Of course it’s worth a trip up there if you can just for the 
conversation. 
The only (quaint) problem is that there is no complete cata- 
log, but as far as | can tell, they will have just about anything 
you could want between April and July or August. 
David Seligman 
Alton, Illinois 
Yeast 
In reference to Mr. & Mrs. Peter Ruppell’s question on grow- 
ing bread yeast .. 
. Yeast can be grown by first taking 1 cup 
milk or water and 1 cup‘flour (preferably whole wheat) and 
mixing them together in a bowl. Then covering (not airtight) 
the bowl & putting it in a place where the temperature is be- 
tween 65° — 75°. Feed it a little mitk or water or honey 
i 
every day. And in about a week you should have a big bubbly 
mass of yeast-flour. 
Use about 3/4 cup of very bubbly mixture or 1 cup of fairly: 
bubbly mixture. 
Add 1/2 cup of milk or water and 1/2 cup of flour and let 
the whole thing ferment again. 
* 
Eric Lloyd 
Los Angeles, CA 
Wine-Ways 
All you need in the way of equipment is a glass jug, a balloon 
and an enema tube. All ingredients can be bought at your 
local grocer. This wine can be put together in about 15 min- 
utes and costs about 25¢ a quart. 
2-1/2 cups white sugar 
1-1/4 teaspoons yeast (Fleischmann’s baking yeast is fine) 
1/3 cup raisins (boiled in two cups water and then cooled) 
2 large tins of Welsch’s Frozen Concentrated Grape Juice 
(try substituting frozen concentrated apple juice) 
1. Place the yeast, 1 tbsp. sugar and 1/2 cup warm water in 
a bowl and let sit until bubbly. 
2. Dissolve the sugar in a quart of boiling water. Pour this 
solution in the sterilized glass gallon jug (you can get these 
jugs free from your local soda fountain. Their Coca Cola 
syrup comes in these jugs. So does your vinegar, root beer 
and apple cider). 
3. Allow the Welsch’s Frozen Grape juice to thaw and then 
add it to the jug. 
4. Add the raisin and water mixture. 
5. Add water to the jug to within three inches of the opening. 
The final temperature of everything in the jug should be about 
100 degrees. 
6. Add the yeast mixture and shake to make sure everything 
is well blended. 
7. Get out your 10 cent balloon (a heavy duty one) and fit 
the opening of the balloon over the neck of the bottle. Secure 
the balloon to the bottle with an elastic band. The balloon 
is a perfect substitute for a water seal or other fancy, expen- 
sive equipment designed to release the gas produced by fer- 
mentation without letting any air in. 
8. Let the jug stand in the draft-free, warm (72-85 degrees), 
dark place (set the jug in a brown paper bag or wrap itina 
sweater) for about 3 weeks or until you can see that all fer- 
mentation has stopped. There should be no sign of any tiny 
bubbles rising to the surface when you look through the side 
of the jug. 
9. When fermentation has stopped, sterilize four wine bottles 
and siphon off the wine (an enema tube works fine). Cork 
tightly and set the bottles on their side just so that the cork 
will stay moist and expanded for a tight seal and the yeast can 
settle to the bottom. Let the wine age for several months in 
a dark cool (not cold) place. It will taste very good after three 
weeks but so much better after several months. 
Note: 
Take care when siphoning off the wine not to disturb 
_ 
the yeast sediment on the bottom. 
Barbara Kirschenblatt-Gimblett 
Bloomington, Indiana 
Beermaking, corrected 
The “traditional recipe’’ for Home Brewed Beer listed in the 
March Catalog may be “simple, cheap, and potent,” as ad- 
vertised, but it has several things wrong with it, all of which 
can be corrected by spending a few cents more on gear and 
materials. 
To start with, do NOT use Fleischmann’s — or any Other baking type — 
yeast for brewing purposes. 
If you do, the beer will have an undesir- 
able bakehouse mustiness. Use brewers’ yeast, developed for brewing 
purposes. You can get this at any brewing or winemaking supply 
house; check the yellow pages of any large city directory. 
Secondly, do NOT use “white sugar’, that is, cane sugar. This will 
impart a winey flavor that doesn’t help the taste any. Instead, use 
corn sugar, which you can get at the brewing supply house mentioned 
above. Both the brewing yeast and corn sugar are comparable in price 
to the Fleischmann’s and cane sugar — it is simply a question of going 
to the trouble of obtaining them. 
The rest of the recipe for the actual brewing process is O.K. as far as 
it goes. A plastic trash can (new) works fine, but if you use the tradi- 
tional stoneware crocks, don’t use secondhand crocks that may have 
been used for pickles, sauerkraut, etc., previously; get new crocks or 
ones that you know have been used for only brewing before you got 
them. Also, if you use the crocks, | think it is a good idea to wash 
them out with a bicarb of soda solution every second or third batch 
you run through, although this is probably not strictly necessary. 
Concerning the recipe’s statement that the crocks must be covered 
with a “shower cap” type plastic cover “to keep the air out’, if you 
think about it for a minute you will realize that the only way you 
can “keep the air out’’ is to do your brewing in a large tightly sealed 
carboy with an ‘S-shaped’ fermentation lock. Some people do, but 
this isn’t really necessary and most people (including me) are not go- 
ing to bother with this costly and cumbersome equipment. The prob- 
lem is not with the air getting to the brew, the trouble is vinegar flies 
and fruit flies that contaminate the brew. So | just put a damp towel 
over the mouth of the crocks. This has worked fine. My experience 
also indicates that it doesn’t make much difference whether or not 
you skim off the frothy “‘head”’ that develops on top of the brew. 
What is very important, though, is finding the right spot temperature 
wise to do your brewing. About 70° 
F. seems to be right. If you 
must do your brewing in a place colder than that, it is possible to ad- 
just the temperature upwards with an aquarium-type electric heater 
suspended in the brew. But best of all is to find a place with the right 
temperature to start with, 
Although you don’t really need one, | like to use a hydrometer to keep 
track of the alcohol content of the brew in the crocks. This is alittle 
glass gadget you can get at the brewing supply house, or chemical sup- 
ply houses would have them. You float it in the brew and eyeball the 
calibrations on the side. If you don’t want to bother with this, just 
look at the brew itself. When the CO“ 
bubbles aren’t coming up any 
more, you aren't getting any more alcohol either, and it probably 
means the alcohol content present has finally killed off the yeast, end- 
ing the fermentation process. The whole process should take about a 
week. Sometimes the yeast will die for some reason before it should 
have. 
If this happens, toss ir. some more yeast. 
When the fermentation is finished, you are ready to bottle. Your bot- 
tles will normally be quart bottles, and they must be SUPER CLEAN. 
It is silly to spend alot of money and time working up a great brew 
and then ruin it by putting it in contaminated bottles. A baby bottle 
brush works well for cleaning quart bottles. Stubbies, by the way, are 
too small to bother with and you DO NOT CHUG HOME BREW OUT 
OF THE BOTTLES anyway, for reasons that will be explained later. 
The recipe said that.you should use an ‘“enema tube” to get the brew 
out of the crocks and into the bottle. What you should use is what is 
traditionally known as ‘an Oklahoma credit card’, that is, a three foot 
length of half-inch diameter plastic tubing. Put one end in the brew 
and keep it above the sediment on the bottom. Suck on the other end 
of the tube until the brew comes up the tube, lower your end of the 
tube below the level of the crock to the mouth of the bottle and you 
are in business. Gravity does the work. 
The recipe said to put sugar in the bottles with the brew if you wanted 
“fizzy” beer, that is to say, if you want beer which is not flat — and 
that is going to mean most of us in this country. But you should not 
use a full teaspoonful, as the recipe said — use a quarter of a teaspoon- 
ful only, and of course it will be corn sugar rather than cane sugar. 
Cap with an ordinary capper and it is a good idea to write the bottling 
date on the caps with a grease pencil BEFORE capping, which puts a 
dent in them. Now store in acool dry place where people are not nor- 
— 
mally about — since you will eventually blow up a few bottles, as we 
all do, and a one quart bottle exploding can be about like a fragmenta 
tion hand grenade. Glass slivers are difficult for a surgeon to dig out 
of your carcass. Explosions in bottles are the reason we do not use 
screw top bottles — the other kind will usually just “pop” their tops, 
but the screw top type bottles must explode if the pressure becomes 
too great. 
The recipe said to let the brew age “4 - 14 days’ and “if desperate, 
drink immediately”. This is preposterous, and it is nonsense like this 
that gives home brew a bad name. Home brew should age at least a 
month, and anyone who drinks freshly brewed stuff is going to have 
his intestinal tract reamed out from one end to the other — he will 
probably be on the toilet al! night. Of course, you can get the same 
© 
problem by drinking properly aged home brew which has been im- 
properly decanted, The problem is this: that quarter teaspoonful of 
corn sugar you put in the bottle to give it fizz’ converted to CO 
(fizz"’) and a little extra alcohol — then the yeast organisms floating 
around in the brew eventually died and settled to the bottom. That 
is why your quart bottles of home brew that have aged for a month 
will have about a half inch of sediment on the bottom. YOU DO NOT 
WANT TO DRINK ANY OF THIS SEDIMENT (that is, unless you 
have a serious constipation problem you want to solve). This is why 
you do not drink home brew straight out of the bottle — that way, 
you can’t avoid getting some of the sediment, Instead, you carefully 
and slowly pour the brew out of the bottle into a PITCHER, and then 
you can pour glasses from the pitcher. In pouring from the bottle, you 
keep an eye on the sediment and stop pouring just before the sediment 
gets stirred up. It helps to have a light on the far side of the bottle, so 
that you are looking at the light through the brew. 
William Kirby 
Portland, Oregon 
See p. 83, Spring 1970 Catalog, for more on beer and winemaking. 
