| 
Other People’s Mail 
The Surburban Guerilla Strikes Again 
If | ever write a book called Little Subversions For Suburban 
Guerillas, the first chapter will be about back-yard compost 
piles. 
We have a fine one cooking in a shallow hole behind the house. 
All our vegetable waste goes in it. Leaves, grass clippings, pine 
needles, wood ashes, kitchen garbage. We’ve had it about three 
months now. Every time | dump another pail of kitchen waste 
on the pile | have a wonderful sense of triumph over all the 
forces tending to make life in the suburbs barren. Helping 
the organic cycle to complete itself in such an unlikely 
setting is my favorite theme these days. The soil of our little 
homestead is being renewed by the products of the plants, 
animals and humans that live on it. Our pile is no bigger 
around or deeper than a tea table at this point. Yet there 
must be 200 pounds of stuff that will soon be pure humus. 
The pile is full of life, redeemed from civilized death at the 
hands of the garbage collectors. Garbage collectors can bleed 
a suburban homeplace dry, in time. 
| think of our pile asa 
kind of tourniquet, stopping the loss of life-blood from our 
teeny patch of ground. 
Suburbanites interested in having compost piles could learn 
a lot by reading about them in the Rodale books on organic 
gardening. 
It’s quite simple. | began with a hole about eight 
inches deep and four feet square. Every time | put some 
garbage or grass clippings in the hole I’d toss some dirt on 
top. When all the dirt was used, | simply shoveled out the 
hole again, dirt, grass, garbage and all, and started the process 
over. At first the proportion was about 1/3 organic matter 
and 2/3’s dirt. But gradually this has changed, until now it’s 
hard to tell dirt from the organic stuff. Gradually it’s be- 
coming compost. When it’s finished I'll use it or store it in 
bags, and start another pile in the original hole. 
Some people have asked me about odor, and flies. No prob- 
lem. (But you do have to be diligent. A suburban guerilla 
must always be careful, operating so far behind enemy lines). 
Every time | put anything on the pile that might attract flies, 
or smell bad, | sprinkle over it a handful of composted steer 
manure | bought at the store (50 pounds for $1.19, good 
stuff) which starts the process of decomposition before the 
goodies in the garbage begin to ferment. A shovel full of dirt 
on top of that safely seals it in. Our neighborhood is alive 
with dogs and cats, but in three months not one has been 
interested in our compost pile. 
That is only one way, of course. There are dozens of other 
methods, including using garbage cans and plastic bags, if 
you don’t want to dig a hole. 
We're thinking about getting a shredder, to grind up the 
organic matter and make finer compost faster. 
| can imagine 
the day when shredders will be as essential yard equipment 
for suburbanites as lawn mowers, especially here in the San 
Francisco area where, starting next January 1, backyard 
burning will be illegal, because of the smog. | noticed the 
spring Catalog mentioned the Sears’ shredder, for $135. I’d 
like to see the Catalog check into shredders, and devote more 
space to them in the future. 
If any readers have first-hand 
information about shredders | hope they write to the Catalog. 
The spring issue was great! May the Lord shower rich 
blessings upon the whole earth, its trees and flowers, rivers, 
hills and catalog. 
Gurney Norman 
180 Stanford Ave. 
Menlo Park, California 
From {lost his name) 
Request: 
\f you find that you have dead space when you do your layouts, 
how about filling in with the phrase 
“Shoes For Industry” 
No explanation. 
It’s just a catchy phrase | worked up a year 
or so ago. | hitched from Montreal to Vancouver with a buddy 
one time and we wrote it all over signboards, guardrails, bath- 
room walls, etc. along the trans-Canadian highway. We kept 
spreading the word, and sure enough, after about six months 
it started cropping up in places we’d never been near. Two 
peacecorpmen brought it back from India. A Rid from London 
(a friend of a friend) whose father was a BOAC pilot flew to 
Karachi Pakistan (free passage) and scrawlled the message in 
big red letters on the front of the Chinese and American 
Embassys...and onandonandon, 
Like in court during embez- 
zelment case. in Massachusetts. 
It’s really beautiful. 
it would really be beautiful if someone could get 10,000 
little pieces of paper with SFI on them and throw them off 
the roof of the Wells Fargo building... 
When | go out into the world to spread the word, | always write 
it like this: 
10 
Venison getting 
| read that book by Francis E. Sell 
that DEER HUNTER’S GUIDE 
& it’s pretty good if you’re one of those sporty guys 
he says he killed a thousand deer 
1000 
that’s a lot of meat for a man & his family & his friends to eat 
at Libre we killed 8 deer last year & we fed a lot of friends & we thought we had plenty of meat 
at that rate it’d take us well over 100 years to kill 1000 deer 
guess we just aint sporty enuf 
It takes Francis Sell about 200 pages to tell you the same things 
that Herter’s tell you in that free 20 page pamphlet you get with knives & deer calls 
except the Herter’s pictures are better 
| don’t know anything about sporty hunting 
I’m a good poacher 
I’ve thought a lot about it & Idecidéd that if there’s going to be meat on our table 
I’m going to put it there 
| hunt with a .22 Winchester magnum with a 4x scope 
| have a blind overlooking a big block of salt in a creek bottom 
the deer come there every morning & evening 
| watch them 
| call them with a Herter’s Deer Call 
| ask them if any among them is ready to die 
| tell them that we will use the energy we get from eating their flesh: in a way that would please them 
| don’t forget those words 
almost always it is‘a doe without a fawn or a lone buck that tells me he will join us 
| shoot them in the chest from no further than 50 yards 
they die almost instantly 
| feel their spirit enters me 
everytime 
it feels good 
that’s all | know about killing deer. 
- Joy — Love — All Blessings 
Peter Rabbit 
Libre, Colo. 
pamphlet: 
Herter’s, Inc. 
R.R. 1 
Waseca, Minn. 
Stef 
: 
From Margot Patterson Doss 
From Mu 
_- 
to CATALOG and Back. 
The new catalog looks even more useful than the last one. As | was 
reading it in bed this morning it occurred to me that | have written 
a book that fits 3 and possibly 4 of your criteria for the function of 
the catalog. 
It is San Francisco at Your Feet, Grove Press, $1.95. 
Useful for low cost exploration of S.F. (especially to newcomers to 
the area). You can do most of the walks in this book free and we 
also give walking time and available public transportation. The 
Chamber of Commerce doesn’t like me very much because the book 
doesn’t tout hotels, motels, restaurants, etc. and gives you more honest 
info than Grey Line or any of the touristy businesses. 
Since the book was published in ‘64, Sutro Baths has come down and 
a few other landmarks but mostly the City is the same. For that matter, 
a reader can use the book as a measure for recent changes. Certainly 
walking isn’t going to change. 
(I’m also enclosing a copy of The Museums of S.F. which some librarian 
prepared for the Conv. & Visitors Bureau. 
Free. And one of the best 
things that usually mercenary outfit has put out.) 
If you like the book, Don Allen, 1815 Jones, could probably arrange 
for the Truck Store to get it cheaply. 
1|'d like to see the store if it 
comes to S.F. or to Bolinas this summer. Almost any weekday after- 
noon in July would be a good time for the truck to call on us in the 
City. We’ll be in Bolinas in August and anytime would be good there. 
Is it big enough to ‘walk’ around? 
Cordially 
Margot Patterson Doss 
(Mrs. John W. Doss) 
San Francisco, CA 
Mrs. Doss, 
I’ve been a fan of your walks in the Chron for some time. | particu- 
larly remember a sojourn of North Beach with Ginsberg when Allen 
was still anathema to most. 
|’d-like to ponder your book a while in 
regard to the CATALOG, for these two reasons——1) it’s local (we 
don’t carry the excellent UC Bay Area series on weather, mushrooms etc 
etc for this reason), 2) the source is a friend (at least retaining sub- 
scriber); my SOP here is to wait for independent suggestions before 
promoting friends’ work. 
The travelling truck store is currently 
out of action because the 
entrepreneur was inspired by Baba Ram Dass to seek a more direct 
route to enlightenment than wheeling and dealing. 
If you know any 
takers for his job, it’s open. Meanwhile, there might be a walk for 
you in this odd commercial district of downtown Menlo Park. Within 
3-4 blocks is Whole Earth, Free U, Kepler’s, East-West books, nifty 
train station, SRI, Menlo Recreation Center. 
It’s the closest that 
Stanford comes to a Telegraph Avenue, and it’s early yet, blissfully 
unselfconscious. 
If you're interested in Midpeninsula country. walks, the Head of 
Portola Institute, Dick Raymond, is an old Green Foothiller and has 
considerable lore. 
Many thanks for the book, and again for subscription. 
Stewart Brand 
From Stephanie Mills 
Have you ever thought about the possibilities for freeway 
theatre? After all, 1000 people trapped on a bridge approach 
at five are a community. Get some brave types to walk be- 
tween the lines of cars & talk to the drivers “Hi, nice day, 
isn’t it? I'll bet you’re getting a headache. How many 
children do you have? Did you ever think that if all of us 
only had one or two that you wouldn’t be trapped here?” 
Enjoy New Mexico to the hilt. That kind of space is holy. 
Greetings From a Far-Off Mind— 
My travels now take me closer to God within but as the drama 
unfolds | learn othings also—things that concern the Catalog (?) 
—you judge—|'ll report—a thread of my Karmic para deeply 
love you all 
Mendecino: 
‘ 
Small, unrefined arts/crafts town—soon to be a Carmel type (?) 
I’m not sure—probably 
The one bookstore (new & used) is 
going out of business. 
| only passed thru didn’t ask around— 
the area might have used the Truck Store 
SunnyValley: 
Visited The Family 
of The Mystic Arts—approximately 30 
people—living a very primitive pioneer/indian existence— 
living in tepees (Goodwin-Cole), lean-tos, domes, huts during 
warm months all activity centered around lodge built of logs— 
hand notched, mud filling etc.—measures 30’ x 54’—not counting 
kitchen—also have 2 outhouses, a sauna, larder & 2 tool sheds— 
all building done with chain saws & hand tools—all knowledge 
aquired from catalog-type books taken from library—no mone 
—doing well though too much on external trip for my desires 
(as if that meant anything) 
KITCHEN 
Se 
Quines Creek: 
A community dedicated to the inner journey—Christ centered 
3 yrs old—full of love—farm buildings, 2 houses—30 people— 
their library has a few Catalog books (Herbalist, Organic 
Gardening but mostly books that are supportive to conscious- 
ness expansion—most books come from the rational mind—the 
rational mind can’t ‘afford’ to get high—returning to OM can’t 
happen with books, 
The Catalog is well received & used with 
the library. The Supplements are more enthusiastically talked 
about—the ‘drop-outs’ say—"’If you're going to drop out—drop 
out—if you’re going to have a community—do it—don'’t talk 
about it—develop your own architecture.” 
Supplements=communication=they dig it 
Catalog=money=they don’t have any 
People come by Sunny Valley and ask how to start communities— 
— 
they answer “‘make sure you have land—everything else you 
have to learn yourself, depending on who you are, where you 
© 
are, what you want, etc”’ 
That is all | can report 
The family is fine—the battle inside rages 
God Bless 
Mu 
wea
Ly
3 
3 
Te tt 
wat
ls 
aay
te
- 
