mine 
ie 
Overland Guide To Nepal 
An overland trip East can be a beautiful experience, but a lot of work 
as well. Here | attempt to give you a factual outline to make this 
experience even more pleasant and less confusing than it was for me. 
WHEN TO GO 
Firstly, it is well to start the trip in late summer from Europe: 
August, 
September and October as starting dates will give you the advantage 
of the best possible weather all the way to Nepal; arriving Nepal circa 
xmass. NOTE: The weather along the route | outline is mild from 
August to xmass. 
Eastern Turkey is cold at night in the mountains. 
It can be cold with light snow crossing the mountain ridge out of 
Ghazni just before dropping into Kabul, Afganistan. 
|t would be 
impossible to cross the Hindu Kush after November and difficult 
to get to the ruins of Bamiyan, north of Kabul. Shrinagar, the city of 
houseboats in Kashmire will be very cold and possibly snowbound 
late November. 
Kathmandu valley is mild year round with a couple 
of weeks of freezing weather in January. 
HEALTH 
It is of utmost importance to keep in good health. 
First, a smallpox 
and cholera vaccination are mandatory as you will not be allowed to 
cross frontiers without a World Health Certificate. A large supply of 
multiple vitamins is strongly recommended. 
Your diet will lack in 
vitamin C. Also Intro-vioform are some help against diarrhea and 
dysentary. 
If you become seriously ill go to U.S. Consulate and a 
reliable doctor will be recommended. NOTE: At U.S. Embassy in 
New Delhi there is a clinic in the main building, and they will treat 
you without question. 
CLOTHING 
Of course, you are going to travel light. Itemizing everything isn’t 
necessary, but it should be noted that you will need a dark sweater 
and windbreaker. 
Thiat everyday stuff you wear, take one spare. 
| 
dye my underwear dark colors; white will never be white again and 
there is nothing which looks worse than dirty drawers when stripping 
down in front of a room full uf fellow travelers. 
Same goes for the girls, and pants are quite acceptable for the girls. 
One dress and a few tops are all that is necessary. GIRLS: 
Mini skirts 
only attract remarks and trouble. You can visit holy places in pants, 
but dresses higher than just above the ankle will bar you from many 
mosques. 
PAPERS 
Bartholomew maps are the best, but you can get shell and local tourist 
maps along the way. Take all the credentials you can get. International 
Student Card, $3 from Nat. Student Association, 265 Madison Ave., 
N.Y. 
A youth hostel can be obtained at any hostel in Europe and cost 
less than here if you tell them you want one only for foreign travel 
and void in U.S. hostels. 
A PRESS card. Try having an official looking 
1.D. laminated with PRESS stamped in large red letters across the whole 
face. 
MONEY 
Take some cash and save it for the Eastern money market. Some 
travelers checks are good for the time spent in Europe and stable 
currency countries. Money is unstable in: Pakistan, |ndia and Nepal. 
My summation will give you an idea of expense. 
GETTING TO EUROPE 
Cheapest way is Icelandic Airlines: $167.50 thrift season one way to 
N.Y. to Luxembourg. So called work aways and other fantastic stories 
of cheap boats don’t exist except for 1% of total travelers hunting for 
these bargains. 
You've arrived in Luxembourg or some seaport, take my advice and 
start immediately for the East. Even if you have never been to Europe 
before save your cash for the East. 
If you are hitching, or driving get 
on the Autobahn for Munich. Now that you are on the road there are 
a couple of essential items for all travelers: 
an air mattress and a good 
sleeping bag. There are two things about the overland trip to Nepal 
which are very important: good food and good sleep. You can make 
the whole trip sleeping on hard floors and eating rice, but once your 
body resistance falls there are a number of maladies awaiting entrance 
to, your system. An Army type poncho is also a very handy item, and 
a small! one-burner gasoline cook stove should be seriously considered. 
MUNICH 
Choices for Hitch-hikers: 
1. Europa bus direct to Teheran for $75 plus overnight hotel expense. 
A ten day trip. 
2. Train direct to Istanbul, $45, a two day ride. Be sure to take food 
On train. 
3. Hitch-hike on to Istanbul, three to ten days. Do not try to hitch 
the Dalmatian Coast. 
Route: Munich to Salzburg, Klagenfurt, 
Ljubljana, Beograd, Skopje and from Skopje through Bulguria to 
Istanbul, or to Thessalonika and on to Istanbul. 
| prefer through 
Greece. DRIVERS: 
If you're not in a hurry you would do well to 
consider driving down the Dalmatian Coast. There are many campsites 
and late September or early October will still be sunny days. The route 
from Dubrovnik goes to Titograd, then Kolasin. Careful not to miss 
the turn off into the city of Kolasin and out the opposite side of town 
runs an unbelievably potholed dirt road. This will be the worst road 
of the entire trip to Nepal. 
It is very bad to Pec, then you continue 
to Prizren, and you can depend on a modern new campsite in Prizrin, 
then Skopje and the main road. From Skopje you can go either 
through Bulgaria or on to Thessalonika, Greece. 
In Thessalonika isa 
° 
very modern campsite with free hot water showers and a private beach. 
The camp is actually 25 ks out of the city and signposted by Interna- 
tional camp signs. NOTE: 
All travelers who plan on transiting Bulgaria 
will have to pay $4 for a visa at crossing point. The train transits 
Bulgaria =o be sure and get a Bulgarian visa at a Bulgarian Consulate 
before starting out. Visa costs $2 at Consulate. 
TURKEY 
Arriving from Greece, there is a campsite at border crossing in | psala. 
These modern campsites in Turkey are located at BP gasoline stations 
and called BP Mocamps. Arriving from Bulgaria there is a BP Mocamp 
at crossing town of Edirne. 
ISTANBUL: 
BP Mocamp is on your right 8 ks before city and near 
airport. 
It is the main road leading into Istanbul so you can’t miss it. 
This camp has a swimming pool as well as free hot water showers and 
free GAZ cook stoves. Cost varies depending on size of car and tent. 
My wife and |, motorcycle and small tent ran $1.25 per day. For 
those arriving by public transport 
or hitching without tents, cheap 
hotels are located around the train station and the Blue Mosque. A 
room for two will cost from 5 to 10 lira per person per night. You 
may change money at the banks for an official 12 lira to $1. NOTE: 
if you are going to buy a ticket on an international carrier then you 
must change your money at the rate of 9 lira to $1 and produce receipts. 
Get your visa for |ran; U.S. passports: 
no charge. For those who 
elect to follow route to Trabzon, you can get a visa for Iran in 
Trabzon and avoid the huzzle of Istanbul. 
If you are continuing by automobile the direct route is Ankara, Kayseri, 
Sivas, Erzincan, Erzurum, then Mako, Iran. After Ankara the roads 
are for the most part loose gravel to the Iranian border. NOTE: 
Watch out for six inch deep pot holes in surfaced road 20 or 30 miles 
before border. 
‘'RAITCHERS: You have several choices. 
1. Take boat from Istanbul to Trabzon, $4 with student discount, 
two nights without food. 
If any are on motorcycles freight is $2 and 
well worth missing the uninteresting drive over bad roads through cen- 
tral Turkey. The ship, EGE, leaves once a week on Tuesday and the 
office for the company is Denizcilik Bankasi located to your right 
just after crossing the Galata Bridge from old to new Istanbul. 
For 
student discounts you must get a Turkish student card obtainable 
from any of the many student organizations in Istanbul: 
cost $1. 
NOTE: 
if you are over 26 you might be refused student discount, 
but argue. 
2. Train from Istanbul to Erzurum $6.50 with stu. dis., and that is 
avery nice second class. 
3. TBT bus from Istanbul direct to Teheran $30, a four day trip with 
nightly stops in hotels. Expect to spend about $1.50 per day for food 
and lodging. Bus driver will not allow you to sleep on bus. 
TRABZON: There are several mini bus companies which will take 
you to Erzurum. 
ERZURUM: One connects here with either a Mihan Tour or TBT 
bus to Teheran for $12. One can camp at the BP station. 
NOTE: Where student prices quoted non students figure 30% more. 
If student rate not quoted then rate is fixed to all. 
IRAN 
You can expect to find only two more campgrounds from here on; 
one in Tabriz and one in Teheran. Otherwise those traveling by car 
can pull off the road most anywhere to overnight camp. The camp 
in Tabriz is signposted and easy to locate. The one in Teheran is 
about 10 ks out of town on the road to Saveh. 
It is on your right and 
called Camp del Sol. Cheap hotels are located in Teheran around the 
train station ranging from 30 to 50 rials per person per night. $1 
equals 75 rials. 
Rials are also spoken of as Tummin. One Tummin 
equals 10 rials. 
TEHERAN: 
Get your visa for Afganistan; U.S. Passports, no charge. 
Afganistan consulate is currently asking the rougher looking travelers 
to show their money, but one can pass around one person’s roll. For 
those of you who might need a good Western type meal you can get 
an excellent lunch for 150 rials at Sandys Restaurant located next 
door to the American Express office on Takht-e-jamshid street. From 
Teheran the route is north to Sari and on to Meshad. This road 
is bad, dirt and washboard, from Shah-pasand to Meshad. 
For those 
going public transport there are both trains and buses running to 
Meshad. By bus it takes between twenty and thirty hours and prices 
vary from 150 to 400 rials. Be careful of overcharging and short 
changing in Iran. Gas pumps do not ring up the price. Find out the 
price by liter and figure up bill yourself. Price is standard as gasoline 
is state controlled. 
!ranian numbers to ten are: 
12 3°4" 5.617 64.10 
(PRoee 
1a a 
MESHAD: Cheap hotels run 30 to 50 rials. There are transit beds in 
bus stations but they cost as much as a place downtown. Twicea 
week a bus runs from Meshad to Herat, Afganistan. 
If you don’t want 
to wait for that connection you can take a bus daily to the border 
town of Taiebat, Iran; 75 rials. From Taiebat you can hitch a ride 
with a tanker truck to Herat; you'll be expected to pay truck driver. 
If the taxi from Herat happens to be in town it will cost, after barter- 
ing, 200 Afganies per person. 
(75 Afs to $1.) 
DRIVERS: You will leave Meshad on the road to Torbat-heydriyeh 
and go on this road.38 kilometers and on your left will be a dirt road 
leading down into a dry river bed with an old washed out bridge. That 
is the road to Afganistan and til now there is no sign post. This road 
is badly washboard for 190 kilometers to Taiebat. 
HIKERS: 
If stuck in Taiebat you can sleep in tea house across street 
from customs house for one Tummin. Keep in mind that you can 
sleep in most roadside tea houses. 
AFGHANISTAN 
From Herat you get a bus direct to Kabul with an overnight stop in 
Kandahar. You may break your journey in Kandahar if you wish. 
The price varies from 215 to 300 Afganies Herat to Kabul. Bus leaves 
daily. Hotels in Afganistan will run from 30 to 50 afs. per person per 
night. 
If you want to buy skins Herat is actually the best we saw. 
Afgan coats are running between $10 and $30. 
KABUL: The bus will let you off in front of the Khyber restaurant. 
This is where most travelers first come and you can meet other people 
coming from the East and exchange information. 
!n Kabul is the 
money bazaar. Here you will get 40% more for your money than the 
official rates of India and Pakistan. This is all illegal and you should 
check with current travelers as to what’s going on. You can expect 
about 12 Indian rupees to $1 (Official rate 7,40) and 8.50 Pakistan 
rupees to $1. (Official rate 4.75). Get your Indian and Pakistan visas; 
no charge to U.S. passports. NOTE: No matter how you travel through 
Pakistan you will need a road permit. The two best cheap hotels are 
pa and Bamiyan. A bus runs daily to the Pakistan city of Peshawar 
for 
$2. 
PAKISTAN 
In Peshawar the youth hostel is very good and costs 1.50 rupees. 
It 
is located on your left at the University on the main road coming into 
Peshawar from Afganistan. Trains run regularly to Lahore. Interclass 
is $2. Side note: you can fly from Peshawar to Gilgit and then trek 
to Hunza. Flight cost $6. 
LAHORE: There is a youth hostel on Ferozepore road. A bus runs 
daily to the Indian border. Save 1.75 rupees for bus fare. 
INDIA 
- 
After crossing the frontier you take a tonga, a horse drawn cart, to 
Ferozepore. Don’t take a bicycle as the ride is 12 ks. Train to New 
Delhi costs $1.50. The best way to get around India is by train. Now 
your student card will come in handy as students get 50% reductions 
and no age limits. The best class for long journeys is third class two 
tier sleeper. To get the reduction you go to the main administration 
building in major cities. For example, in New Delhi you go to the 
office of the Northern Railroad and tell them where you want to go 
and they check your student card and give you an authorization for 
reduction which you then take back to the railway ticket office and 
present it to the window of the line you wish to buy a ticket on. He 
will then sell you a ticket. Tickets should be reserved for a week in 
advance, but if you find the train sold out, then apply for a special 
tourist quota. For this you return to the administration building for 
the authorization, and most times these buildings are several kilo- 
meters apart. In other words affairs in Indian are complicated with 
forms and papers to fill out, but this is part of a rich experience. 
NOTE: 
Mail trains are faster than express trains. 
NEW DELHI: 
Hotels in the center of town will run about 7 to 10 
rupees per person per night. There is a 1 rupee youth hostel, but it 
is very difficult to find and out of two several ks. If you are approach- 
ing New Delhi by car keep asking directions to Connaught Place; the 
center of town. 
Indian meals will run 1 to 2 rupees and the best 
; 
thing on the menu at Wengers restaurant, Connaught Place is 6 rupees. 
Wengers is a place to meet other travelers and get excellent Western 
meals while your tummy is getting used to Indian fare. Don’t shy 
away from expensive restaurant hotels in India. You can usually get 
a full lunch and eat as much as you like for 7 to 10 rupees and you 
need to keep body fit on this kind of trip. We would stop at one of 
these luxury places once a week to rebuild our bodies with the com- 
forts of hot water in the toilets, etc. For those travelling by car there 
are DAK bungalows or PWD Inspection houses scattered all over India. 
These cost 1 to 3 rupees a night per person, and some-per room no 
matter how many people-are in it. Get your Nepalese visa in New 
Delhi. 
NOTE: Way out hip types are being refused visas to several Eastern 
countries. That doesn’t mean one can't have long hair and a beard, 
but if it is shoulder length and you are barefoot wearing robes you 
might be mistaken as a hippy. 
Take the train to Raxual, the border town before Nepal. There isa 
government rest house there for 1.50 rupees. Begin the trip to 
Kathmandu early in the morning as it is a ten to twelve hour trip by 
truck. DRIVERS: 
Leave early and fill up all gas cans in India as 
gasoline is double priced in Kathmandu. 
NEPAL 
There are several hotels which are cheap. Prices vary from sleeping 
on the floor for 15¢ to 30¢ a night to a nice double room and patio 
at the Camp Hotel for $1.25 for two. Currently the blue Tibetian 
restaurant and Camp hotel are hangouts for travelers. However, there 
are many fine little hotels and the valley is not difficult to get around 
in. Bicycles are renting for about 75¢ a day. 
SUMMATION 
Public transport cost from Europe to Nepal and back circa $200. The 
— 
whole trip with food and lodging should realistically cost you about 
$400 to 3500 Europe-Nepal-Europe. Many people do it for less, 
but my cost estimate is based on good food and good sleep; your 
only health insurance in the East, Remember Europe is the expensive 
place. 
MAIL DROPS 
Pe 
These are the best for a variety of reasons which six years of travel 
have dictated to me: 
Istanbul: 
Post Ristante 
Kabul: 
Post Ristante 
{ 
Kathmandu: 
Post Ristante 
Teheran: 
American Consulate 
New Dethi: 
American Express 
NOTE: American Express charges $2 for forwarding mail. American 
consulate forwards promptly free. Post Ristante is slow to forward. 
Having money sent to India should be avoided, but if you need this 
service have your U.S. contact go to American Express office and get 
a demand for money which will be forwarded to American Express 
in Bombay or New Delhi. 
In any case you will not be allowed to 
receive foreign cash. 
Liquor permits are given to tourist by the tourist office and can be 
illegally sold. Check with travelers as to where and going price. 
No insurance is required from Turkey onwards so don’t bother to 
get any for your vehicle. A Carnet De Passage is the easiest way to 
cross borders with a car. Automobile club can assist you in getting 
one. Not necessary for a motorcycle as you can have it entered on 
your passport when crossing all the borders. India, however, requires 
a letter from the Consulate as to your promise to re-export machine 
from India. Currently the U.S. Consulate in Kabul is issuing such 
letters, which you then take to the India Consulate in Kabul for an 
authorization to cross the border with the cycle. 
A good all purpose guide is: Golden Guide to Southeast Asia. 
Do not be sold on buying a dozen or more visa photos in U.S. at 
high cost. Cheap photos are available along the way. You can use 2 
doz. small two inch photos. 
é 
My gasoline expense from London to Nepal was $65. Drivinga BMW 
R60. 
Sid Sheehy 
London, England 
