Herbivore’s Guide 
| would like to turn people on to herbs. You can grow herbs 
in the corner of your vegetable garden, in a patio box, ina 
window, in a flowerpot. You can be an agriculturalist with 
only a few square feet of ground and prepare yourself for 
that land you ultimately hope to gain part or all your liveli- 
hood from. You can use your herbs for flavoring cooking, 
for salads, for making things smell nice, for dying cloth, for 
curing yourself of all sorts of illnesses, for making magic and 
casting spells, for alchemy. And herbs are beautiful, simple 
plants, most of which grow and flourish even in the poorest 
soil. You can-even grow your own | Ching yarrow stalks. 
| haven’t investigated many herb books as yet; maybe some 
of the other readers can recommend some good ones; Any- 
way, better to start with the herbs and get to the books later. 
One interesting one I’ve seen is NATURE’S MEDICINES— 
The Folklore, Romance, and Value of Herbal Remedies 
really lays down a lot of lore. Another good one is HAND- 
BOOK ON HERBS published by the Brooklyn Botanical 
Gardens, Brooklyn, N. Y., which is enough to get you hooked 
on herbs all by itself. The Brooklyn Botanical Garden, by the 
way, publishes a wonderful bunch of books on all phases of 
gardening, all of which sell for either $1.00 or $1.50 (the herb 
one is $1.00) Free list available from them. 
As an example of herb lore, someone told me that when he gets 
a bad case of poison oak, he uses a leaf of comfrey to scratch 
with, rubbing it freely over the itchy spot, and wipes out the 
poison oak in a few days. However, he-says, if you use a com- 
frey poultice on an infection or wound, don’t bind the. leaf 
directly to the skin, as it’s so effective in promoting the growth 
of epithelial cells that it may actually grow to the skin. The 
Nature’s Medicines book has a lot more rap on comfrey. 
A problem with growing herbs is that there are seldom more 
than a few of the most common types in the local nursery. 
So | talked to someone who is really into herbs, spices, 
gardening, essential oils, gourds, and all that useful vegetable 
stuff, and asked her where to get herbs, etc. She sent mea 
list of addresses, | sent for their catalogs, and the following 
is all about that. 
_ Nature’s Herb Co., 281 Ellis St., San Francisco, Calif. They 
sell dried herbs and spices by the pound, ingredients for pot- 
pourris and sachets, prepared herbal remedies, and essential 
oils. Also various herbal tea mixtures for both enjoyment 
and medicine. 
Herb Products €o., 11012 Magnolia Blvd., North Hollywood, 
Calif. 91601. Much the same as the above, with the addition 
of some far-out cosmetics. They are very much into ginseng, 
and can tell you something about that. Their prices tend to 
be a little higher than Nature’s Herb Co., but each has things 
that the other doesn’t. 
Indiana Botanic Gardens, Inc., Hammond, Indiana 46325. 
They will send you a very far-out catalog and an herbalists 
- almanac, which will tell you the’ best days to plant, what 
the weather will be like for all of 1969, and other useful tid- 
bits. They sell teas and medicines, herbs and spices, seeds, 
beans, nuts, gums, resins, oils, vitamins, cosmetics, perfumes, 
formulas to cure liquor addiction, tobacco habit, and tobacco 
chewing, and tell you what grateful users write about rectal 
ointment no. 103. 
Tradewinds Candle Shop, 1224A Fillmore Street, San 
Francisco, Calif. | throw this in just for the hell of it. They 
sell candles, but their scene is magic. | was last there several 
years ago, and it appeared to be an old established business, 
run by an elderly white-haired man who looked like a Suth’n 
Cuhn’l, and his wife, who looked like a Haitian voodoo lady. 
They sell the usual oils, powders, etc., but | think they may 
also handle other things they don’t list in their catalog. They 
will also give intelligent advice on how to change your luck, 
make money, make your love love you, etc. Tiiey make no 
outrageous claims, but will answer questions. | tried them 
once, and their advice worked, but | don’t think I'd do it 
again. Handle at your own risk. 
None of the above deal in things for gardening. 
Meadowbrook Herb Garden, Wyoming, Rhode Island 02898. 
Their catalog is a beautiful piece of printing and caligraphy. 
They don’t ship live plants, but will deliver if you live within 
forty miles. They sell herb teas and tea herbs, spices, seeds, 
toiletries, books, supplies, and miscellany. They seem to be 
into Anthroposophy and something called Bio-Dynamics. 
Carl Odom, Pinola, Miss. 39149. He will send you a very 
~ down-home two-sheet catalog on newsprint, telling you all 
the groovy things you can do with gourds. | won't say any- 
thing about it and ruin it for you. He also sells vegetable 
and flower seeds. 
Nichols Garden Nursery, 1190 North Pacific Hwy., Albany, 
Oregon 97321. They will send you an incredible 44-page 
catalog that will require every ounce of your willpower to 
keep you from making a hundred dollar order on the spot. 
Seeds for vegetables and herbs, growing plants, dried herbs 
and spices, mushroom spores, wildflower seeds, house plants, 
gourd seeds, books, supplies, brewing and winemaking stuff, 
and all sorts of other oddments. They specialize in the 
unusual, like very large, very tasty, or very different vegetables. 
Their catalog is mimeographed because, they say, ‘’modern 
high speed presses could probably do the job better, but we 
believe that.people are more important than machines, and 
for that reason will continue to resist automation.”” 
| bought 
some live plants from them, they arrived in good condition and 
are now growing well. 
Woodland Acres Nursery, Crivitz, Wisconsin 54114. They 
specialise in wildflowers and ferns, many of which have herbal 
uses, and sell mostly live plants. 
Greene Herb Garden, Greene, Rhode Island. Getting their 
catalog is like hearing from your nice aunt that lives in the 
country. Full of news about their family, spring in New 
England, and gentle conversation about herbs. They sell 
only herb seeds and bulbs. 
Vita Green Farms, P.O. Box 878, Vista, Calif. 92083. They 
sell vegetable and herb seeds, vegetables, fruits, and preserves. 
If you want organic produce and are not near a good health 
food store, their vegetables might be worth investigating. 
Expensive, but I’m sure they‘re excellent. All vegetables 
are organically grown, seeds are ‘’un-treated, natural, old- 
fashioned, un-hybridized, un-crossed.” Their tone is a little 
stern, but anyone who raises organic produce for a living is 
bound to be a fanatic and a crusader. 
| sent for some of their 
seeds, and they came virtually before | put the letter in the 
mailbox. They are also pure water maniacs, and sell various 
types of home filtering units. 
Walnut Acres, Penns Creek, Pa. 17862. They sell nothing 
for gardening, but have the most complete selection of 
organic foods and related products I’ve ever seen, including 
every conceivable organic grain. Prices are high, but they 
have all sorts of stuff I’ve never seen before. They also seem 
like very beautiful people who love and are concerned about 
the world around them. 
That's all for now. 
I'll keep in touch. Keep up the good 
work. 
Love, 
Roland 
Roger Knights suggests 
The Crowd by Gustav le Bon. 
Insightful, readable, influenced Freud. 
The Money Game by ‘Adam Smith.’ 
Is capitalism on the verge of 
becoming a Parker brothers game? Will the brokers throw money back 
at Abbie next time? 
Is there a right-wing alternative to capitalism? 
Read and wonder. 
It would certainly be an unexpected way out. 
Games People Play by Eric Berne. A different sort of game theory. 
Fascinating, multi-faceted. A Freudian | Ching: bad scene-name it- 
disolve it. Also fun to describe newly discovered games (though that 
can become a game too). 
Life Against Death and Love’s Body by N. O. Brown. 
Social and Cultural Dynamics by Pitirim Sorokin. Verrry interesting. 
Nature, Man and Woman by Alan Watts. 
info on the positive-ion machine, which enables people in enclosed 
areas which are deprived of positive ions (mountaintops and post- 
lightning-strike areas are rich in them) to work and feel much better. 
Developed by the Germans in WW2 for their pilots and used by our 
Air Force since. Recently declassified— Boeing has ordered thousands 
for its plants. Cost is about $400. | think | saw a mention of it in 
Business Week nearly 2 years ago. 
How to Lie With Statistics by Darrell Huff. Beautifully written, 
incredibly funny, indispensible to an understanding of manipulation 
of the truth. A classic. 
Uniclub, 255 W. 42, NYC 10036, gives better discounts $3.09 vs. 
King Karol’s $3.35 and sells more things. Lifetime membership is 
$5. (also has ‘specials,’ etc.) (They claim their service is the best.) 
Men in Groups by Lionel Tiger. From Robert Ardrey’s review: 
™Knd as an earthquake cannot be fenced, so the shock waves pro- 
ceeding from Tiger’s idea cannot be contained by the covers of his 
book. Still they proceed, in the reader’s mind, toppling farther 
steeples, smashing farther crockery.” 
Very few places stock 8 quart pressure cookers, and practically no : 
place stocks 16 or 21 quart pressure cooker/canners, except Sears. 
It took me a lot of looking to find this out, and it might be worth 
mentioning to save other people trouble. 
GMAC needs people to drive their repossessed cars all over the country. 
Once a person qualifies with them, he can henceforth drive free any- 
where, practically, 
(I think.) 
Why not put a little black dot beside new (first-time) entries in the 
catalogue, both in the text and in the index? 
Yours, 
Roger Knights 
New York, N. Y. 
Kieth Gilbert suggests 
Some books which would be usefull are: Canoes and Canoeing 
by 
Pearcy Blandford, Lutterworth Press, 1961. It is all about the 
European Kiyaks and how to make and use them. Other books by 
this author on small inexpensive boats and equipment are also usefull. 
The Smithstonian institute also published a book on Eskimoe kiyaks 
and Umiaks as well as how birchbark canoes can be made. Goat 
Husbandry by Mackenzie, Faber & Faber, N. Y. & London. A real 
good book but expensive, $11. 
| suggest that you do a little research for some of your readers and 
give the more hardy and adventureous some of the details concerning 
Alpine County, Calif. Population 300. There are about 100 voters 
and Markleyville, population 50 is the county seat. The sheriff is a 
woman. There is a lot of government open range land and county 
owned land 
is constantly being sold. Axcess in winter is through 
Nevada only. Another worthwile location is the Queen Charlotte 
Islands of B. C. Canada. There are only 3,000 people on 4,000 square 
miles of land. There is work to be had with the canneries, fishing 
boats and lumber companies. Land is cheap where available and some 
spectacular buys are available. You could almost start a newcountry 
there. Look into Naden harber and the site of the old Naden Harbor 
Whailing Station. Hunting is great, the limit on deer is one a day per 
person. There are no major or minor preditors. Only nucance 
animals are black bears and racoons. There are also wild cattle, elk 
herds and other native animals. 
!t rains a lot but only a little bit 
comes down at a time. Some hot springs exist as well as mineral 
deposits, eic. Have a look into the area and | am sure you will be 
impressed with its future potential..| hasten to suggest that you 
advise your readers that the Haida indians who inhabit the island 
come from a capitalistic society and also that negros would probably 
not be made welcome: 
| was in Canada as a fugative and had an 
Opportunity to really study this area and do research on it at the 
geodetic survey office. 
It is an area where three months of work by 
one man will feed him and his whole family for the other nine if he 
" 
is taking his living from nature and the land. 
ie a 
QUEgi 
at Paty TNE 
KS criarvorre 
C 
RIERCAAMLOTTE T= PAMCDATA 474.75) 
°; 
t5 
= earree 
ame: 
| 
Kelty Pack, On Victory Blvd. in Glendale, Calif., is the maker of the 
finest light weight pack frame going. Many paramilitary groups in 
that part of the state have already proved their worth. They cost 
about $40 each complete. 
A book now out of print which you might look into is, Get Ye Up 
Into The High Mountains, by Dallas Roquemore, Pilgrim Torch, 
P.O. Box 257, Englewood, Colorado. Shows a different touch to the 
same thing you are doing. 
A few comments on some of the merchandise which you list. 
| have 
been locked up for four years so | hope | do not get out of line. Get 
some chemist at a local level to develop a poor man’s soil test kit. 
Indicate when books are paperback or hard cover. Tiny Tiger type 
- 
generators are available for about $45. 
Push horse hide for leather clothing. 
It is better than buckskin. 
| was 
a motion picture costumer for five years and | know whereof | speak. 
More information on homemade music instruments would also be 
welcome. Such things as dulcimers, etc., and sources of good music 
instruments at reasonable prices as well as kits might be a help. Forget 
Lafayette Radio Co. For citizen band radios | would highly recommend 
the Cadrey line. When | had my gun store going we used to sell quite 
a number of their 5 and 2 watt radios to paramilitary groups who 
tended to buy only equipment which would hold up so you would 
have little trouble with it. The Cadrey walkie talkie can be set up 
with nickel cadmium batteries, it has external jacks for outside an- 
tennas, mike, and earphones and can be used with a dipole antenna 
with good effect up to about 20 miles. GE and others now have 
similar equipment. Even Sears and Roebuck. 
Emergency Combat Field Surgery Manual for U.N. Forces is now 
available from The Queens Printers, Ottowa, Ontario, $4. 
Long time storage of grains can be accomplished by placing grain in 
5 gal. tins with a piece of blotter paper on top, pour a tablespoon full 
of cloroform on paper and close top, seal with solder and or pararend. 
turn cans every three months. good for over five years. 
In return for your kindness | would like to make this offer. | have an 
unusual background and have been doing some of the things that you 
have been writing about for over 16 years so if you have any trouble 
locating some things just write to me and on the envelope put a nota- 
tion, ‘Business,’ and | will try to help. Often | know people who can 
direct you right to what you are looking for. Try me and see. 
You,have listed Chippawa boots with Vibram soles. Also The Eddie 
Bauer Co., 417 East Pine, Seattle, Washington, 98122. Another good 
item is Old Hickory butcher knives from hardware stores. Better than 
most expensive hunting knives. 
| would be curious to know why more groups have not incorporated 
as churches. 
It would stop much of the harassment and other inequi- 
ties so long as every one kept their hands straight. 
Have some of your people looked into the government MARS programme, 
it could be worth it to a large group which has formed its own govern- 
ment. 
d 
Burlap sacking has been successfully used as sideing on cheap 
buildings after being dipped into concrete and nailed up while wet 
as you would shingles. | understand that it is good for up to 20 years. 
Another one, people who use indian moccasins for footwear can 
increase the sole life by covering the footprint with rubber glue and 
putting on a couple of layers of groung rubber from a tire retreading 
outfit. 
If repeated as it wears through to the leather it is possible to 
wear out the tops before the bottoms have been worn through. 
For further information on good teepees contact Fairchild Woodcraft 
in L.A. and Western Trading Post on Zuni St. in Denver Colorado. 
| remain cordially, 
P. O. Box B-4754 
Kieth D. Gilbert 
Tamal, California 
