Space grids bre triangulated systems of members and joints 
used to conduct rigidity through space. You see space grids 
in large roofs of supermarkets, warehouses and auditoriums. 
A space grid is succesful if it is cheap, strong and beautiful. 
There are many similarities between crystal structures and 
space grids. The regularity of the crystai provides a guide 
for the space grid designer—if he adheres to it he is rewarded 
with the simplicity of few different kinds of joints and con- 
necting members. 
Regular space grids—that is a space grid where we have 
uniformity in our joints and our edge lengths are usually 
confined to the simplest softs of structures—flat roofs. The 
more imaginative uses of the regular space grid in the past have 
included Fuller’s use of the octet truss for a servicing dock 
for the B-36 bomber and the space frame exhibitions struc- 
tures for Expo ‘67 Montreal—in these cases the space grids 
were allowed to turn corners and form shapes in accordance 
with the symmetries of their joints. 
sas SS / eae f 
yer ee 
he. 3 
Plate 73 
Project by Richard Buckminster 
Fuller. A roof, wall and/or floor 
framework consisting 
of a truss 
in which the main structural elements, 
struts or triangular sheet members, form equilateral triangles inter- 
connected 
in a pattern consisting 
of octahedrons and tetrahedrons, with 
the major axes of all octahedrons 
parallel throughout the octetruss 
framework. 
We have been working with a space grid that seems unique 
in its simplicity and the multitude of forms that come 
naturally from its geometry... 
This is the ten zone truss with 
icosohedral hubs. 
_10x9 
The decazone truss can produce of faces in 45 
different planes. This is a much richer variety of planes to 
choose from than that found in most trussing systems. 
24 
Each plane can grow in two directions by the addition of more 
diamonds, and any plane if extended until it becomes weak 
can be reinforced by the addition of another layer above or 
below itself in the form of a truss. With 45 different planes 
to choose from the variety of shapes that can be made is 
huge. If some form is structurally unsound it can be 
reinforced by the addition of a truss. 
| feel the reason you do not find discussions of it along with 
the other more common space grids is the icosohedron’s 
foreigness to the world of crystallography—the study of the 
arrangement of atoms in crystals. The icosohedron has five- 
fold symmetry and, therefore, the icosohedral group cannot 
appear in the usual crystallographic studies since they cannot 
include 5 fold axis. To make this most clear try and cover 
a plane with close packed pentagons—it won’t work. 
“nave rdable 
Japs 
(27 i 
that it is these five fold symmetries that have made the space 
grid designers shy away from the icosohedron. We came to 
use it by a most round-about route, and it took days before 
| believe 
the significance of what we had before us became clear to me. 
There are a group of simple geometric solids called zonahedra’ 
which H. S. Coxeter discusses in his book Regular Polytopes 
and also in a chapter of the book Mat!:ematical Recreations 
and Essays. Two of the simplest of these zonahedra are the 
triacontahedron and the enneacontahedron. Zonahedra are 
related to bristles of lines called stars. Each zonahedron has 
One star associated with it and each star one zonahedron. 
The triacontahedron is the zonahedron associated with the 
star formed by joining the midpoints of opposite pentagonal 
faces of a dodecahedron. 
The enneacontahedron is the zonahedron associated with 
the star formed by joining the midpoints of oppdsite 
triangular faces of the icosohedron. 
Lag 
What kind of joints would you use in constructing an 
enneacontahedron? What angles do the edges make when 
they come together? But let’s turn it around—don't think 
of the angles made by lines think of what made the lines. 
' They sprouted out of the icosohedron. This is the obvious 
joint to use for connecting these edge members—let them go 
back home into the icosohedron. 
—
