John Ross suggests 
somebody wrote you in one of the supplements and mentioned 
topographic maps. YES!! they are incredibly useful for people 
who want to know what their environment really is like. the 
price is amazingly low for the amount of information each 
one contains, and when you piece together half a dozen or so 
adjoining ones, you begin to get an idea of what the area is 
about. this is especially true around bodies of water (which 
is where i have spent most of my life (on the atlantic), but i 
suppose the same thing is true for the rest of the world. 
i have 
the new york metro area and most of long island on my office 
wall (it’s a big wall) and all of the people who come in, when 
left alone for a few minutes, can be found standing about a 
foot from it with a sort of ‘how about that?’" look on their 
faces. indexes are free from the geological survey and include 
lists of special maps and directories of Jocal sources. 
the 
places that resell them——map stores, camping supply houses 
and like that——get a slight markup, on the order of a quarter 
or less, but if you're in a hurry, it’s worth it. but if not 
(figure a month to six weeks) order from washington or denver 
and tell them to send them back in a mailing tube and not 
fold the maps, 
there’s a quantity discount. 
a post office box is a very useful, cheap tool for the gathering 
of information and tools. the smallest size runs a dollar and 
a half per month, and there’s no need for anything larger. when 
it's full, the mailmen put the stuff aside until you pick it up. 
the merit of a p.o. box is that it provides you with an address. 
there are lots of magazines geared to special industries—— 
electronics, printing, just about anything else you might be 
interested in——which circulate for free to people in the 
industry, and are unavailable to the general public. create a 
John Holt suggests 
Would love to review George Dennison’‘s 
THE LIVES OF CHILDREN for the Catalogue. 
Never mind the $10. What is the deadline? 
(Available from Random House.) 
New Schools Exchange 
. 
It plans to list teachers, ideas, students and 
ideas in search of a school. 
It serves as a platform for diverse educational 
ideologies. 
It brings people together in their 
AND STICKS, 1T W 
AND AN ASSORTMENT OF STONED-OUT OPERATORS. 
; 
FOR GUITAR AND/OR MICROPHONE Bur SPECIAL WARNING * 
ITS EFFECTINENESS AS A PUBLIC ADDRESS UNIT MAY BE LESSENED BY 
ZEALOUS GUITARISTS WHO LIKE TO BLOW OUT THE SPEAKER. DoinG 
THIS PRODUCES THE BEST FUZZ-TONE EFFECT ON THE MARKET. 
THE BATTERIES LAST LONGER THAN YOU THINK, THE SEPARATE VOL- 
DME CONTROLS ARE HANDY THOUGH THE TONE SwitcH 
HAS A NEGLI- 
GIBLE EFFECT AND THE MIKE (A NEW EXTRA) WE HAVENT TRIED. 
The New Schools Exchange Newsletter, Box 
3511, Santa Barbara, Calif., 93105 is communi- 
cation between 250 Free Schools throughout 
the United States and Canada. 
Hog Farm Speaker 
ANVTRING YOU SAY INTO IT SUDDENLY BECOMes REAL BIG anpd 
VERY \MPORTANT. Tits BATTERW- POWERED AMPLIFIER WAS THE 
PEST LOVED AND MOST USED PIECE OF ELECTRONICKRY IN THE YEAR 
OF ROAD SHOWS PUT ON BY THE Hoo FARM. Ea@uacly HANDY IN CITIES 
Popular —e4L/817C Carnival-5 Guitar /PA Amplifier 
| 
company name, along with an untraceable address, and define 
yourself as a director, or president or something, and they will 
send you the magazine. 
go to a business library that has them, 
or ask friends in the business, and tear out the subscription 
card from acopy. then you get access to “‘bingo cards’’ which 
are a means of access to specific product data. 
for a small 
search for enlightenment and in their initiations 
of (choose your adjective) free, new, Summer- 
hillian, innovative, experimental, radical schools. 
The New Schools Exchange wants no financial 
rewards, but there are the expenses of postage, 
amount of money you can get a letterhead printed up that will 
get you lots of additional information. There are other bene- 
fits that escape me at the moment, but it’s very definitely a 
good thing. 
John Ross 
c/o Public Information Office 
Third Coast Guard District 
Governors Island, N.Y. 10004 
Oscar Firschein suggests 
The Systems Approach, C. West Churchman, Delta paperback, 
$2.25 (Delta Books, 750 Third Ave., New York, N. Y. 10017). 
One would not expect a book with this title to have relevance 
to the People’s Park issue in Berkeley, but it does. The book 
describes and examines the ‘Systems approach”’ to planning 
in government, business, and industry, and indicates some of 
the characteristics of this approach that the citizen must under- 
stand to prevent his being snowed by supposedly scientific 
analyses in decisions that affect his life. 
In the sense used by the author, Plato’s Republic is a famous 
systems science book, and writers such as Hegel, Marx, 
Schopenhauer, Nietzche, Spengler, and Spencer, to mention 
just a few, used a systems approach. Four different ideas as 
to what constitutes the systems approach are discussed in the 
form of a debate between the different schools of thought: 
1—the advocates of efficiency, who claim that the best 
approach to a system is to 
identify the trouble spots, and 
especially the places where there is waste, e.g., unnecessarily 
high costs, and then proceed to remove the inefficiency. 
2—the advocates of the use of science, who claim that there 
is an objective way to look at a system, and to build a ‘model’ 
of the system that describes how it works. 
3—the humanists, whose fundamental approach to systems 
consists of first looking at human values: freedom, dignity, 
privacy. They say that the systems approach should avoid 
imposing plans, i.e., intervention of any kind. 
4—the anti-planners, who believe that any attempt to lay out 
specific and ‘rational’ plans is either foolish or dangerous or 
downright evil. The correct approach to systems is to live 
in them, to react in terms of one’s experience, and not to 
try to change them by means of some grandiose scheme or 
mathematical model. 
In a concluding statement the author writes, 
“There are no experts in the systems approach...the real 
expert is still Everyman, stupid, humorous, serious and 
comprehensive all at the same time. The public always knows 
more than any of the ‘experts,’ be they economists, behavioral 
scientists, or whoever; the problem of the systems approach 
is to learn what ‘everybody’ knows.” 
Countless semi-governmental and governmental bodies are 
today carrying out plans which affect the lives of everyone 
without considering Everyman. This book provides a good 
idea of how such bodies think, and the failings and limita- 
tions of their particular approaches. This is good background 
to have when fighting highway commissions who use cost 
benefit analyses in justifying freeway routings, or Boards of 
Regents and university administrators who shape the areas 
surrounding the university as they see fit. 
Oscar Firschein 
Menlo Park, CA 
materials and maintenance. We ask a dollar 
for subscription. 
Handbook for Building Homes of Earth 
A well-written and illustrated book on adobe, 
rammed earth, and pressed block construction 
techniques. Discusses soils, giving simple tests 
and stabilization techniques; site preparation 
& foundations; the three wall-building methods; 
roofs; floors; and surface coatings. 
It’s both 
very precise and technical, and very practical... 
the most comprehensive source I've found on 
the subject. Available FREE!!! from: 
Department of Housing & Urban Development 
Division of International Affairs 
Washington, D..C. 20410. 
Charles Tilford 
New York, N. Y. 
Figure 88. 
This style of earth dome and vault construction 
was used in a reconstruction program at New Gourna, Egypt. 
The mortar used in laying brick or stabilizing earth block 
in an arch, vault or dome is usually of a quick-setting type. 
In many middle Eastern countries a mortar made with gypsum 
is common, 
If cement or lime mortar 
is used, it is necessary 
to have a form to support the brick until the mortar sets. 
This 
is usually 
too expensive and 
is rarely 
used 
in small 
house 
CONSTPUCTION, 
If you should use this type of roof, get methods and design 
from someone who has done it before. 
Figure 85, 
These supports can be sawed timbers or the trunks 
of small trees, six to eight inches in diameter, spaced approxi- 
mately 30 inches apart. 
For large buildings, such as the school 
shown 
in Figure 
86, large trunks, 
ten 
to 
twelve 
inches 
in 
diameter, can 
be used. 
A nice appearance 
is produced 
by 
alternating the large and small ends of the vigas. 
Also, putting 
the small ends all in the same direction would cause that end 
FE 
Figure 85. 
The cutaway section of this bunker fill roof shows 
the layered structure of the roof. 
From the top down, the 
components are gravel and asphalt, building paper, earth fill, 
building paper, wood sheathing and supporting beams (vigas). 
AS PROVED AGAINST MUD, SNOW, ROUGH HANDLING 
(reviewed by Paul Foster) 
© "Big Sound" 5-Watt Amplifier! 
© Dual Inputs and Controls! 
All solid state! Compact 
design for convenience on the go, 
in 
the home or dance 
A serine Great for the beginning 
guitarist striving for that really big sound! Or for anyone else 
who wants to be heard! 2 inputs for instruments and/or 
microphones. 
Independent 
volume 
control 
of both 
inputs 
allows mixing of high and low tones. High/low tone switch 
operates on 8 low cost “D’’ cells. 
3-10 
1047, Ut 
"1044", Wt. 9 Ibs. 
23-466, 1.5¥ 
“D" Cell (8 req.) .........0... 
© Battery Operated! 
© 8” Speaker 
29" 
REALISTIC: 
Lavalier Crystal Mike 
cereal: 
“A 
With Purchase 
Bichread for ‘stand. 
Ind. 
of Carnival-5 
adaprer. 5’ shielded cable, neck cord. 
Amplifier! 
catalog free from 
The Radio Shack 
= 
730 Commonwealth Ave, 
Boston, Mass. 02215 
Buncie Shadden Di Gesu suggests 
:
—On Herbs etc, 
: 
Back to Eden by Jethro Kloss—healing herbs, home remedies, 
‘
diet & health—a rather folksy farm approach. (Also sug. by 
be 
Don Rosset) 
: 
Natures Healing Grasses by H. E. Kirschner, M.D.—again an 
unsophisticated-personal experience type viewpoint-but very 
helpful. 
| 
7 
—On Needlework 
DMC Encyclopedia of Needlework by T. de Dillmont—a 
small inexpensive volume of 800 pages (small type & pages) 
with sections on sewing, mending, embroidery, knitting, 
tapestry, laces & macramé, etc. (which gives a broader 
perspective on macramé than Virginia Harvey's book). It 
is very detailed on ‘how to’ instructions & not difficult to 
follow. 
($5.00, Joan Toggitt, Ltd., 52 Vanderbilt Ave., New York, 
N. Y. 10017 or Craft & Hobby) 
i
—On Weaving & Equipment 
More primitive approaches might be of interest to Whole 
Earth readers. 
Byways In Handweaving by Mary M. Atwater—an illustrated 
book on non-loom & primitive type loom techniques. ($7.95; 
~ 
1954, 67) 
Studies in Primitive Looms by (something) Roth—valuable 
chiefly for well-done detailed illustrations of various simple 
looms that could be easily constructed with little expense 
from his drawings. These can be obtained from Craft & 
Hobby Book Service—also books on handspinning & dying, 
especially Hopi & Navajo dyes. 
e
ne
ee aa
ee 
ee
ee
= 
ee 
3 S
= 
—On Childbirth, etc. 
Thank You Dr. LaMaze by M. Karmel ($4.95 Lippincott) 
Awake & Aware by |. Chabon, M.D. ($4.95 Dell) 
Nursing Your Baby by Karen Pryor ($4.95 Harper) 
Jude Harris suggests 
The Book of Country Crafts by Randalph 
Wardell Johnston. ‘’On Working with Wood, 
Clay, Metals, Stone, & Color, with Many 
Recipes & Secrets of the Crafts.” Published 
A. S. Barnes & Co., South Brunswick, N. J. 
