Movement 
Everybody says We Have To Work Together, and it’s true. 
an individual can manage. Okay so far. What gets sticky is 
preneurial personalities; the self-assertion that fuels them 
tends in time to drive them apart (often to a bitter tune if 
The dents worth making in the world are usually more than 
sustaining over months a working relationship among entre- 
Meanwhile in the living room we're regretting the shortage of 
extension cords because when everything’s turned on, the 
circuit breaker goes. Production has never seemed easier. 
Wives are around sustaining the logistics. Conversation at 
meals is full of the morning or afternoon’s accomplishment 
in what seems a whole complex of realms. 
There’s a 
expectations were utopian). 
momentum, and we feel almost at rest in it. 
But temporary collaborations are entirely a different matter, 
jubilant music in fact. People who haven’t seen one another 
in months, who respect each other’s work, who know they 
have only a week or so together, can churn out a phenomenal 
amount of coherent work, not to mention mutual education. 
There are problems of course. 
|t’s crowded sometimes. 
Zomeworks is weathering some crises and making some hard 
decisions. 
The CATALOG crew is reeling under phone reports 
of worldly success (“52 subscriptions today”). Here we are 
in the sticks and there’s more happening than ever in town. 
The richness is greater than just the brute stimulus to the 
All you need is mobility, or, in terms of tools, portability. 
brain of a strange working environment. 
It’s like we’re 
/f you operate in an information net, it may have to track with 
another kind of city, bite-size. 
The slightly modified soup 
you. For us, transporting Supplement production from 
we eat daily at lunch is referred to as the July Soup. 
This 
California to New Mexico proved far easier than we expected. 
_—_is July Soup we’re in, nutritious and flavorful, and here comes 
And instead of confining it’s been liberating. We simply boxed 
August: something else, somewhere else. 
up the Polaroid MP-3 camera and the |BM Selectric Composer. 
(IBM in Albuquerque was just as prompt as Menlo Park to 
repair the damned left margin) and Joe’s light table and 
electric fry pan (and wax) and appropriate film and paper 
and rudimentary files and stationery, and pick-up trucked 
down to Albuquerque, travel trailer swaying along behind. 
Hal and Diana stayed in Menlo Park to mind the store, mail, 
and telephone. They had the essential task of maintaining 
the income operation, the customer continuity we were 
vacationing from. They would ;say the bills we were running 
up on our telephone credit card in the desert. 
Our scene at Baer’s isn’t so much collaboration as working 
proximity. The Zomeworks Humanufactory occupies part of 
the house, and every day it is alive with hassle and invention— 
Day Charoudi prototyping a sun tracker that percolates torque, 
Buck Dant lightning welding hex-nut joints on the icosa jig, 
Ed Heinz rapidographing line-perfect diagrams, Berry Hickman 
and Baer trying to figure and perform a viable economy 
for 
the business. 
Supplement Costs 
Estimated cost of preparing 10,000 July Supplements: 
$2,486. 
Unit cost therefore is 25¢. 
Cost pie: 
¢ 
Mailtronics 
Selectric 
$200 
& 
Composer, 
Polaroid 
A 
2 months 
film 
$300 
$150 
Salary (4 people, 2 weeks) 
$771 
we 
Printing $765 
Zomeworks studio 
; 
20,000 more Spring CATALOGs are being printed at a 
cost of $4,000, so unit cost on the CATALOG is going 
down from 80-90¢ to 50¢. 
Travel not included. 
CATALOG Distribution 
We announced in the Spring CATALOG that we are in the market for a national distributor. 
Yesterday we found out to our surprise that we aren’t. What happened was World Publish- 
ing called with a good offer (near 
$1.20/CATALOG; they print and distribute: we continue 
to publish; pretty good deal). After two hours of laminar (non-turbulent) discussion among 
ourselves, we decided that we would 1) probably do better economically dealing straight 
with local distributors, 2) feel setter doing that. It means fewer middlemen, shorter lag in 
our responses, and we are in more educational space. 
So, what we are in the market for is more LOCAL distributors. 
Terms are: CATALOGs 
($4) and Supplements ($1) are available at 50%, sold at about 40%, distributor pays the 
shipping from us to him (carrier his choice). Returns in saleable condition within 6 months 
are good for credit. 
At this writing (July 15) our distributor in the Bay Area (Book People) is moving 500 
CATALOGs a week. Dealers who want to carry the CATALOG should bug their local 
distributor or order from: 
Dealers on the 
Book People 
2010 7th Street 
Berkeley, CA 94710 
rhe oo 
; 
(415) 549-3033 
Niet ; 
Breezeway lunch 
ii 
Alpha Book Distributors 
59 4th Street 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
(212) 533-3200 
f 
Rae 
