i 
rey 
re 
od 
2 
In our Corporation, Zomeworks, we needed a product that 
was easy to build, required little tooling costs, and exhibited 
the geometries we are investigating. H. S. Coxeter remarks 
on page 143 of Mathematical Recreations and Essays that 
zonahedra can be dissected into multitudes of six-sided cells. 
(Footnote: Where the zonahedra has n zones then there will 
be 1/6 n(n-1) (n-2) or one cell for every combination of three 
different zones.) This sounded like a promising shape for a 
new kind of jungle gym. We built a thirty-sided triacontahedron 
with its interior subdivided into 1/6 (6) (6-1) (6-2) = 20 cells. 
For the joints we used 1”’ washers welded together in a 
dodecahedron with %” pipes poking through the holes in the 
washers. 
As soon as we finished with one of these | became obsessed 
with the notion of building the larger enneacontahedron—90 
sides, 10 zones and therefore 1/6 (10) (10-1) (10-2) = 120 
component cells. Buck Dant built the outer enneacontahedron 
snell and then began the attempt to divide it into itst 120 
component cells. But how were we to position these new 
84 joints and 280 edges so that this perfect packing of 120 
cells into this round-shaped enneacontahedron would take 
place? It was clear that all the joints dividing the enneacon- 
tahedron into cells, the joints connecting the 280 internal 
edge members were all icosohedral, the edges forming the 
internal cells are always parallel to edges on the outside of 
the enneacontahedron so they are connected by the same 
kinds of joints oriented in exactly the same way, like a school 
of fish all looking in the same direction. 
| saw how to subdivide the enneacontahedron into its 
component cells when | saw that the complete figure was 
the result of successive caps of layers of cells and each cap 
is created by the existing figure sprouting a new zone, each 
joint on one side of itself producing a new edge length all of 
them pointing in the same direction. 
26 
Q 
Once this is clear you can work backwards from the finished 
figure. From one side of the figure you drop an edge length 
into the figure, and reproduce the surface it dropped away 
from on the inside of the enneacontahedron. You then have 
a cap covering a lense-shaped polyhedron; the two of them 
together making up an enneacontahedron. 
After looking at this cap inside the enneacontahedron for a 
couple of days | realized that we had made a truss. In its 
first form it wasn’t a rigid truss because it had no triangles 
in it. If you are working strictly within a zonal system 
triangles are impossible since they kill zones—there is no 
parallel side across the polygon for the zone to continue. 
But we need to triangulate the structure in order for it to be 
rigid—this means that we must introduce members which are 
not part of the zone system. 
This is a shame. The system proves so simple and flexible, 
being able to make different shapes of different sizes and even 
being able to produce a cap of cells anywhere on its surface— 
something temptingly close to a truss system. But it is all 
worthless if there is not some simple way to make it stiff. 
The answer is very simple—every side of every figure made 
within this system is a diamond and there are only two kinds 
of diamonds present. 
The three acute angles formed between 
any particular direction (the tall rod) 
and the adjacent rods (one away). , 
This angle is 419 48’ 
Screwball Connector 
If something is simple it is usually disposed of by 
asimple 
short explanation, but something strange often happens when 
we are presented with something that is both simple and 
extensive—a new powerful system. You get a feeling like 
vertigo, it causes your mind to clamp down and move from 
one consequence to the next very slowly. This laboriously 
slow progress from one simple and obvious conclusion to the 
next set beside the short explanation which leaps from one 
step to the next is discouraging. 
Why is it simple? Why are there only two kinds of diamonds 
possible? To make a variety of different diamonds we need 
a number of different angles to use at the corners of the 
diamonds, to send the edges off in new different directions. 
There are twenty ways to leave an icosohedral joint so it 
would seem there would be many angles to choose from. 
A random arrangement of twenty directions leaving one pt.— 
for instance a clay ball with twenty sticks stuck in it—will 
make a total of 20x 19 _ 499 different angles. Because of 
2x1 
multiple symmetries instead of there being 190 different 
angles there are only five, one of which is 180 degrees. 
Since there are only two kinds of diamonds any structure 
made with this system can be triangulated with two different 
. 
lengths of diagonals. One which crosses the 70°32’ — 109928’ 
diamond and one which crosses the 41°48’ and 138912" 
diamond. 
