EXPO'70 
Want to go to Japan for Expo 70? 
Lloyd Kahn came up with the notion, why not charter a 
plane to the 1970 World's Fair in Osaka and fill it with 
CATALOG subscribers who are interested. We could make 
it one-way, let people find their own way back via India, 
Australia, Tahiti or whatever. 
First query with the airlines reveals that Japan Airlines will 
fly 130-150 of us to Tokyo from San Francisco for about 
$210 a head. While we're finding out if we can meet all the 
legal requirements (looks promising); why don’t you let us 
know if you want to make the trip? We’re talking about a 
late June departure. 
Canadian Tax Land for Sale 
H. M. Dignam Corp., Ltd. sends out a brochure 
every 6-8 weeks listing parcels of tax land for 
sale through the company. 
Lists parcels in all 
provinces and includes a brief but accurate 
description of each along with its location. 
Prices range from $200. to several Thousand 
depending on Locale, size, etc. 
rye 
ic 
aa 
iG 
$1.00 brings four issues of brochure from 
H. M. Dignam Corp., Ltd. 
85 Bloor Street, East 
Toronto 5, Ontario, Canada 
Terry Link suggests 
T. M. Chan & Co., P. O. Box 3881, Hong Kong—— 
Excellent source of cheap photo equipment. Catalog 
available free. Sample prices (Jan. 1968) Asahi 
Pentax Spotmatic, f/1.4 lens $139. Nikon F, 
£/1.4, $201. You pay that plus U.S. Customs Duty 
(22%?). The catch is, if Customs finds camera going 
through, they make you remove trademark by 
grinding it off because of U.S. distributor's rights. 
The point is, you don’t always get caught. Airmail 
delivery available. Return of defective light meter 
(Gossen Luna-Pro, $35) was made by a friend of 
mind and Chan made the exchange all right, but it 
took nine months. 
; 
The most practical and easily understood book on 
photographic printmaking | know of is Lootens’ 
‘Enlarging.’ 
. 
Things | don’t know about, but hope. may appear 
in future issues of the catalog: 
——Building trimarans. 
——The physics of musical instruments 
(is there a good book devoted to instrument- 
making which includes formulas for the sound 
so that modifications may be made and or new 
instruments created?) 
——Experiences in cooperative buying (neighbor- 
hood grocery co-ops, purchasing agencies, etc.) 
——Polaroid MP-3 camera with instant half-tone 
system. Plus any other material relating to 
printing/publication systems. (What about the 
A.B. Dick 360 press? Is it as good and easy to 
use as one owner tells me?) 
Regards, 
Terry Link 
San Francisco, CA 
Tracy S. McCallum 
Minneapolis, Minn. 
John Christian suggests 
Cooking 
comment: 
A cheap, convenient and com- 
Pact system for cooking indoors or out is a Primus 
or SVEA stove with a U.S. Army 2-man mountain 
cook kit. The Primus or Svea stove look almost 
identical: 
a 3%" diameter by 5’’ high perforated 
brass wind screen surrounding a 4 oz, tank and burner. 
It burns WHITE gas, one filling lasts 50 minutes. A 
cup (or small pot) comes with the stove. The Army 
Mountain cook kit has 2 large pots and a pan which 
acts as a cover. The stove will fit inside the cook 
kit. This is adequate for up to 3 adults. The cook 
kit can be found in Army surplus stores, or some of 
the mountaineering stores (probably Recreational 
Coop in Seattle or Ski Hut in Berkeley) and should 
cost less than $5. The stove will cost around $10 or 
$11 and is available from most mountaineering 
stores and possibly camping equipment stores. 
Buying guide: Sturdy clothes, good walking shoes, 
sleeping bags, rucksacks, etc., can often be bought 
for less than half cost by ordering from a regular 
sporting equipment house in Europe, even including 
postage and duty. Procedure: 
write for catalog, for 
example to Sporthaus, Schuster, Rosenstrasse, 
Munich, West Germany (or find others by asking 
English, German, French and Swiss consulates, trade 
offices, embassies). Since catalogs come with many 
illustrations it isn’t difficult to de¢ipher languages 
once you know what you're looking for. Check 
with U.S. Treasury Department for information on 
amount of customs duty on the particular item 
desired. Sometimes the item will come in without 
any duty being charged, this is generally so on small 
items. You can send an ordinary American check 
made out in dollars; no need to get special checks 
made out in local bread form. Tricky thing on 
ordering shoes you need to know your size in the 
European system or send footoutline and American 
size and hope for best. Generally, European shoes 
are narrower in toes and wider in heels than 
American shoes. 
John Christian 
Buffalo, N.Y. 
Cary James suggests 
Books. Lancelot Law Whyte, The Next Development in Man, 
Mentor paperback, 60¢ (may be more now). Written in 1948 
but still relevant. Whyte wants to change the processes of 
thinking from static concepts to fluid developments. 
In order 
to do this he first has to redefine the whole language to 
replace our usual noun-name centered ideas with verb-action- 
process emphasis. Most of the book is a long, head-wrenching 
reinterpretation of Western history, seen as the working out 
of what Whyte calls the universal formative principle. But 
where we are new represents a blocked, one-sided aspect of 
this principle, hence the requirement of the development of 
process thinking and unitary man. The failure we are living 
with now Whyte recognized in 1948, the value of the book 
is its display of a vast and essentially complete metaphysical 
system that is in fact a philosophic program for the future. 
“Form is the recognizable continuity of any process.” p. 15 
“Anything which facilitates the development of characteristic 
organic form is called proper to the organism.”’ p. 23 
“The poverty of language in process concepts compels 
unitary thought to use ‘process’ as both noun and adjective. 
Formation, growth, development, destruction, decay, are 
process concepts; god, idea, number, matter, energy, are 
static concepts lacking the asymmetry of the time sequence 
and implying permanence.” 
p. 27 
** the one God was a jealous God. With the ideal of 
universality appeared intolerance."’ 
p. 76 
“More comprehensive processes than those of the 
conscious mind control human destiny.” p. 118 
“The final elimination of the dualism can only 
come about through the realization that the need 
to formulate ideals, and in so doing split man 
asunder, is itself an expression of the very human 
but futile desire to escape the uncertainty of. 
process and find spiritual security in the aim at 
least of a permanent harmony. Unitary man can 
achieve this realization, and see himself as a whole, 
because he is ready to accept his personal life for 
what it is, a transient development through changes 
which cannot be foreseen.”” p. 210-11. 
Cary James 
Mill Valley, Calif. 
New Suggestions 
Ed Rosenfeld suggests 
Main Currents in Modern Thought — a magazine published 
five times a year by the Foundation for Integrative Education. 
Their own self-description: 
‘‘A cooperative journal to promote 
the free association of those working toward the integration of 
all knowledge through the study of the whole of things, 
Nature, Man, and Society, assuming the universe to be one, 
dependable, intelligible, harmonious.” They have had many 
great articles and continue to feature some of the world’s 
most important people talking about what is really important 
for living. The current’issue (V. 25, No. 4) contains a 1966 
letter from Bucky Fuller to C. A. Doxiadis, in which Fuller 
outlines his life-long concerns and priorities in 14 parts. 
In 
Operation since 1940. $4.50 a year from 12 Church Street, 
New Rochelle, New York 1C805. 
The fantastic knowledge of Harold A. Innis is apparent upon 
noting what Marshall McLuhan has used of his in Gutenberg 
Galaxy. Two of Innis’ books are worth owning in their own 
right. One, The Bias of Communication ($2.50, 1951, 64 & 
68, University of Toronto Press, 226 pp., papercovers), with 
an intro. by McLuhan covers some great territory: the 
crystallization of cultures, the bias of communications, the 
problem of the proper|use of past knowledge, the problem 
of space, technology and public opinion in the USA, etc. 
These reprinted papers cover lots of ground, while the 
footnotes that join them make almost a second book in 
terms of information. 
Innis’ major work is entitled Empire 
and Communication (1950, Oxford, hardcover). 
It makes 
Bias look like a primer, at least upon my first inspection, 
anyway. 
Beyond Left & Right is a superb collection of essays, edited 
with an introduction by Richard Kostelanetz ($2.95, Apollo 
Editions, 425 Park Avenue South, New York City 10016 
No. A-202, softcovers, 436 p. 1968, also in hardcover with 
Richard’s picture on the wrappers). All under one cover are 
some of the great thoughts of Fuller, McLuhan, Boulding, 
Kahn, Theobald, Safdie, Farson, P. Goodman, Edw. Hall, 
Doxiadis, and so on. The point of the book is that the answers 
to problems from now'on must be made from a extrapolitical 
base. Richard has picked some of the best, provided a good 
essay himself and arranged them all under the following 
categories: man & his future, technology and society, enter- 
prise & remuneration, architecture & city planning, people 
& resources, education, defense & diplomacy, and redesigning 
society. Also, an excelient bibliography. Great book. 
John Wilcock’s Other Scenes International Newspaper always 
has interesting things in it. Most especially John, who knows 
everyone and wants to introduce each of us to all his other 
friends. 
I’ve gotten more tips for new mags and books from 
John than almost any other source. 
| think an ad in OS 
would be very fruitful for the CATALOG. Subscription 
$5.00 for the rest of 1969 from Room 419, 41 Union Square 
West, New York City 10003. Free listings for intnl. travel 
ad listings of 50 wordsior less. 
Robert Theobald is a great economist and someone aware of 
the impact of technology on our money/gold oriented society. 
He makes meaningful comment on these dilemmas in a num- 
ber of books, including The Rich and the Poor ($0.50, Mentor 
MD325, 160 p. 1961 paper), Free Men and Free Markets 
$0.95, Doubleday Anchor A447, paper, 173 p., 1963, 5. 
where he first proposed the guaranteed incgme.) and his 
newest book An Alternative Future for America ($1.95 
186 p., 1968, The Swallow Press, Inc., 1139 S. Wabash Ave., 
Chicago II!. 60605, paper.) An informed view of how it is 
and what steps to take to deal with it. 
Black Elk Speaks Being|the life story of a holy man of the 
Oglala Sioux by John G. Neihardt (Flaming Rainbow) $1.50 
A Bison Book, paper, U. of Nebraska Press, Lincoln, Neb. 
1961, 280 p.) is the closest book | know of to the Indian 
consciousness. 
| have often read it the way | do Finnegans 
Wake, by just flipping it open and reading out loud. Pure 
poetry, rich dreams and archetypal Amerindian images of 
the plains and life there. ‘“They are coming to behold!” 
My old lady, Dee, designs and sews clothing. She swears by 
20,000 Years of Fashion the history of costume and personal 
adornment by Francois|Boucher (1 think it’s $25.00, Harry 
Abrams, NY, 1966, 441 p., many illustrations, huge format, 
hardcovers). 
It is what its title and sub-title indicate. 
It 
covers everything and can help anyone with new and old 
ideas about how to do the same for human bodies. An 
invaluable source book. 
George Sarton’s A History of Science seems to be the occi- 
dental equivalent of Needham’s Science & Civilization in 
China (I’ve read volumes | & II of the latter and found it to 
be excellent. I’m not trained enough to evaluate the later 
volumes but can highly recommend the first two.). | have 
not read any of them, but after looking through two of the 
8 volumes it seems to me that Sarton has covered all of the 
material for the subject. Harvard U. Press, Vols. | & II in 
paper so far and more to follow (paper publ. by John 
7 
| 
Wiley.). 
Edward Rosenfeld 
New York, N. Y. 
