. 
Up Against the Wall Mothers 
June was a hot time for the media this year. They attended 
all the graduations and reported all the helmets, gas masks, 
fists, fingers, and naughty speeches. Oddly enough the 
strongest and most widely reported gesture was that of a 
pretty senior at a high-rent girls’ college who said she wasn’t 
going to have any zhildren. Mostly that’s all they reported: 
she’s pretty, she says she’s not going to have children, what’s 
this world coming to, nihilism? Quotes from the actual speech 
were sparse. 
Here’s the valedictory address of Stephanie Mills at Mills 
College on June 1st in full. 
“Traditionally, commencement exercises are the occasion for fatuous 
comments on the future of the graduates present. This future is 
generally painted in glowing terms, characterized as long and happy. 
My depressing comment on that rosy future, that infinite future, is 
that it isa hoax. Our days as a race on this planet are, at this moment, 
numbered, and the reason for our finite, unrosy future is that we are 
breeding ourselves out of existence. Within the next ten years, we 
will witness widespread famines, and possible global plagues raging 
through famine-weakened populations. Soon we may have to ask 
ourselves grisly questions like, ‘‘Will | be willing to shoot my neighbor 
if he tries to steal my last loaf of bread? Will | be forced to become a 
cannibal?” 
“The hideous fact that we are reproducing so rapidly that it is con- 
ceivable that our means of sustenance will be grossly inad-quate 
within ten years was foreseen nearly two centuries ago. 
In 1798, 
Thomas Robert Malthus, in his ‘Essay on the Principle of Population,” 
said, ‘Population, when unchecked, increases in a geometrical ratio. 
Subsistence increases only in an arithmetical ratio.” We have had 
nearly two hundred years to think over the consequences of that 
projection, yet at the turn of the century, 
.eople were arrested in 
New York for distributing birth control information, and only last 
year, Pope Paul the Sixth issued an encyclical which forbade the 
members of his flock to use contraceptives. At this point in our 
history as a race, Dr. Paul Ehrlich of Stanford has observed, ‘’Anyone 
...who stands in the way of measures to bring down the birth rate is 
automatically working for a rise in the death rate.” 
ne res 
Radical Theatre 
From Booklet: 
Radical Theatre Festival 
1969; 48 pp. 
$1.50 
San Francisco Mime Troupe 
450 Alabama St. 
San Francisco, CA 94110 
R. G. Davis 
Americans are so fucking hip. Middle class kids understand everything 
quick, but nothing below that. The hip generation (and I’m part of 
it), everybody understands, like, dig that! Absolutely! 
Yeah! But ask 
them about what's really going on underneath and they have no 
knowledge. Everybody’s so freaking television hip, so fast, that 
they’re impatient with Schumann’s time, which is absolutely necessary. 
Because sometime or other, you have to sit down and say where you 
are. And |! don’t mean Zen, and | don’t mean Buddhism, and | don’t 
necessarily mean religion. Maybe religion is the only place 
where you can stop and think, but sooner or later everybody has to 
do that. 
- 
One problem about your stuff when it goes into the theater and 
commercial critics look at it is that they can’t understand it because 
their eyes and their ears are in tune to bang, bang, bang. And they 
can’t stop. Even the guys from the Village Voice. The complaint is 
that your time is too long. Your time is too long indoors, because 
they are used to superficial time. 
[t should be impegative that your 
shows not be done in a theater, because it’s anti-theater. 
It’s sort of 
hard to be anti-theater in a theater. 
It becomes sort of pretentious, 
avant-garde—and you're not avant-garde. 
In a gym, like last night, it 
seemed to be appropriate. 
It was essential that it be there. You 
create the space. 
| think at this point, the radical theaters are required to do what they 
have to do in a magnificent and significant way, creating that alterna- 
tive and telling the politicos it’snotenough to protest and show the 
contradictions of the society. 
| think everybody knows that. They 
don’t know what you do as an alternative. We all know Teatro exists, 
the Mime Troupe exists and Bread and Puppet exists. So when someone 
says, ‘Where, what theater do | go to?” you can say, go to one of 
these three or create your own. That's an alternative. 
Rather than 
saying, ‘Broadway is shit, off-Broadway is shit, academic is shit. We 
all know it's shit, but | work in it anyway and 
get my $185 a week 
and I’m joining Equity. 
1’ll be in Hollywood next year.”” Garbage. 
If you do a show in the park, you’re immediately into people. You 
can get magnificent reviews in the London Times or in New York and 
when you go to the Mission district and say, ‘’Here we are with the 
show,” they say ‘’Let’s see it.” Period. As long as you keep that 
reality in front of you, you’re always relating to the movement. 
20 
“'So—we have had at least a two hundred year’s warning, yet in 
nineteen sixty-nine, still, virtually nothing is being done by anyone 
with enough power to substantially affect the situation. Mind you, | 
said affect, not eliminate. One of the more depressing aspects of the 
problem is that we cannot escape unscathed. 
Dr. Ehrlich and others 
say that immeédiate action must be taken simply to minimize the 
consequences. And if this action is take, which it probably won't be, 
the psychological damage that we will all suffer is great. One of the 
suggestions for reducing the range of the disaster is ihe involuntary: 
sterilization of any person who has produced more than two children. 
This may sound grossly inhumane, and perhaps it is to an extent, 
since our identities as men and women are so conditioned by our 
reproductive functions. 
| am terribly saddened by the fact that the 
most humane thing for me to do is to have no children at all, But the 
piper is finally demanding payment. 
As an ex-potential parent,.| have asked myself what kind of world 
my children would grow up in. And the answer was, ‘Not very pretty, 
not very clean. Sad, in fact.’ Because, you see, if the population 
continues to grow, the facilities to accomodate that population must 
grow, too. Thus we have more highways and fewer trees, more 
electricity and fewer undammed rivers, more cities and less clean air. 
Mankind. has spread across the face of the earth like a great unthink- 
ing, unfeeling cancer. We have horribly disfigured this planet, un- 
grateful and shortsighted animals that we are. Our frontier spirit 
involves no reverence for any forms of life other than our own, and 
now we are even threatening ourselves with the ultimate disrespect of 
suicide. Perhaps we are unconsciously expiating our guilt, but it is 
just this quality—unconsciousness—that we must fight in ourselves. 
Rather than blindly walking into the abyss, we must take warning 
and try to extricate 
ourselves from it before it is really too late. 
“Too often, members of the so-called real world, that.is the non- 
academic world, by some people's definition, are willing to dismiss 
the warnings and insights of the unreal, academic world. This often 
made distinction and subsequent dismissal is a result of practicing a 
peculiar brand of pragmatism. 
It is the kind of pragmatism which 
says, ‘Let's be realistic—it just isn’t profitable to develop an electric 
automobile.’ This kind of pragmatism is false, nearsighted, and a 
very shallow form of self-delusion. One of the advantages of a college 
education is escaping this kind of pragmatism for four years, being 
free of the small reality of earning a living. From this freedom comes 
a long-range perspective, which is a desperate necessity—not a luxury. 
E.A.T. 
Luis Valdez 
All of a sudden, you see with clarity, and you say, you don’t need all 
that shit! You don’t need a hundred thousand dollars to start a 
theater group. You can do it with nothing, nothing. Do a play about 
naked people. That's it. The theater is in you. 
It’s your soul, it’s 
your heart, it’s the constant reafirmation of what life is all about. 
Who responds to Tennessee Williams or Arthur Miller picking his liver 
apart? You can’t respond to that shit. The Mime Troupe is outside, 
in the park. They're out, they’re alive. They draw your attention in 
spite of all those urban distractions—pedestrians, traffic, etc. They 
say ‘fuck the distractions, I’ve got something to say and you pay 
attention to it because it’s said well."” 
So we found that we had to back away from Delano, sixty miles at 
least, to be a theater. That was a very hard decision to make—very, 
very hard. Do you serve the movement by being just kind of half- 
assed, getting together whenever there’s a chance, hitting and missing, 
or do you really hone your theater down into an effective weapon? 
Is it possible to make it an effective weapon without being blood- 
close to the movement? That's the question that was on our minds 
and what we took on when we moved sixty miles to Del Rey. 
We never blame the audience. 
ABSTRACT 
1 
standing loops are explored. 
Poet 
Participating membership is free. For further information 
and membership forms, write : 
; 
By moving along itself, a cord or line-mass which is limp when at rest 
will form a steady-state space curve under steady external forces. A 
loop of moving cord forms a closed space curve which can support 
compressive loads and is a new engineering element. For example, a 
loop of 0.25 cm diameter nylon cord driven along itself at 35 meter 
sec. 
was erected against gravity into a stable configuration 30 meters 
high. Some 
of the 
ballistic 
and aerodynamic properties of these 
Colleges are hot-beds of this kind of necessity. For four years | have 
been spared the reality of car payments and refrigerators, and in these 
four years, | have had more and more to come to grips with the awe- 
some reality of human survival on this planet. Coping with this 
reality has not been a privilege, and certainly not a luxury. 
It is a very 
disheartening responsibility. 
“One of the reasons that it is so disheartening is the knowledge that 
it would be easier for me to leave this ivory tower to earn a living as 
a cocktail waitress than to earn a living as a crusader, of sorts, for 
human survival. 
If | had enough time, I'd try to get rich, become a 
philanthropist, and endow a foundation. 
But | have less than ten 
years, and so for that matter, do you. This business of impending 
extinction is something that the so-called real and unreal worlds share. 
| can’t eat a dollar bill, and Howard Hughes can’t eat my diploma. 
The real and unreal worlds both have to become pragmatic on a grand 
scale, or there won’t be any worlds left. We must come together to 
face this overwhelming human reality, and to do so, we probably must 
circumvent the so-called political realities which limit our ability to 
move quickly to lessen the gravity of this disaster. Political realities 
are, after all, only constructs for dealing with situations, and as mental 
constructs, they assume a note of unreality—especially when they 
obscure reality. Political realities are clouding this issue of human 
survival every day. On the primary level, there is the political reality 
that we simply can’t go into a country and force it at gunpoint to adopt 
population-control measures. 
Still, we go into countries and increase 
their death rates at gunpoint. On a secondary level, there is the poli- 
tical reality that this situation is far less interesting to our government 
than the space program, anti-ballistic missiles, or even the size of print 
on cigarette packages. This conspicuous lack of interest may be due 
to the fact that pushing to save the human race will turn no one an 
instant profit. There is no material or political gain in the issue as 
of this moment. 
“And, as of this moment, the problem seems vaguely unreal. Some 
of us have never gone hungry a day in our lives. Starvation is a remote 
concept. The shelves of grocery stores are still. crammed with things 
to eat. Why should | believe that anything will happen to change that? 
You and | should believe that the famine can and will happen if for 
no other reason than that we still may be able to do something. And 
doing something to save the human race has always been a fond dream 
of idealists both over and under thirty.” 
Pa 
The main function of Experiments in Art and Technology 
Experiments in Art and Technology 
ee 
is brokering collaboration between artists and engineers. 
9 East 16 Street 
Bt 
. 
They help set up 1) Matchings, 2) Technical Assistance, 
New York, N. ¥- 10003 
oe 
3) Technical Information, 4) Industrial Sponsorship, 
Other E.A.T. offices: 
rs 
5) Artists in Residence, 6) Projects and Exhibitions. 
% 
Penny Kullaway 
E.A.T. Los Angeles 
1680 North Vine St., Rm. 717 
Los Angeles, Calif. 
(213) 463-2852 
Fujiko Nakaya 
E.A.T. Tokyo 
Tokyo Central Apartments, Rm. 205 
43-15 Jingu-mae 
Shibuya-ku 
Tokyo, Japan 
tel: 401-0927 
Merlin Stone 
1635 Josephine St. 
' 
Berkeley, Calif. 94703 
(415) 843-1373 
