- The six acute angles made with 
rods that are two away. 70°32’. 
The six obtuse angles made with rods 
that are three away. 109°28’. 
The three obtuse angles made with 
These are the only five angles that can be made. A little 
rods that are four away. 138911’. 
quick addition shows that angles (1) and (4) are supplements 
The one possible 
and angles (2) and (3) are supplements. Because of this 
ete 
180° angle 
relationship all faces formed with this truss system are one of 
; 
the two diamonds. 
~ 
This simple joint is made with 20 hexagonal nuts welded 
together in the form of a truncated icosohedron. We saw its 
possibility in the hexagon pentagon pattern of the soccer 
ball and it has seemed to all of us a confirmation of the 
_ decazone truss that the joint—usually such a difficult problem— 
should be made so easily with a new arrangement of old 
components. 
PO 
cca 
ib leas 
ll amine 
SR: 
lags 
Se 
Cluster of three enneacontahedra fused through skew decagons.: 
We accomplish the joining of an edge to the joint by means 
_ of the limp dick connector—I believe another new use of 
standard components, 
4 The diagonals always emerge conveniently over a weld 
3 
halfway between two nuts and they are connected by means 
of a stiff flange welded at an angle to the end of the diagonal 
so that the flange may bolt to a nut and the diagonal come 
é. out at the correct angle. 
Steve Baer 
ZOMEWORKS HUMANUFACTORY 
Box 445 — Corrales, N.M. 87048 / tel. (505) 898-3845 
y 
: 
Diagrams: Ed Heinz 
swTeemmveonecnsstesets 
How We Got the Name Screwball 
Our jig makes these joints in two halves, of ten nut hemis- 
pheres. We had the problem of arc welding these halves 
together without fouling of the threads of the nuts with slag. 
One solution was to go to a wire fed MIG welder. Since we 
didn’t have one we sent a Zomeworker over to the Fruehauf ' 
Trailer fabricating shop in Albuquerque, to check out the 
MIG welder. All the old welders over there were really turned 
. 
on by these 20 nuts that were geometrically arranged into a 
beautiful sphere, but they didn’t know what it was for. 
After a lot of jokes and welding shop comments, one old 
boy carefully conjectured, ‘’Well, it looks like a screwball to 
me.” And so it is. 
Buck Dant 
