. 
Fuller, hm. 
Which leads me on to say a bit about Bucky Fuller, since he 
seems to have become the patron saint of whatever is coming. 
| have great respect for Fuller’s designs, but what your 
reviewer missed about Ideas and Integrities is that a close 
reading will reveal a really frightening social picture of the 
future. At least through Fuller’s eyes, there is small place for 
the social equality and interaction most people want to see 
happen. Fuller’s future has two classes: 
the designers who 
do all the thinking and organizing and running of an incredi- 
bly complex world-wide technology, and everybody else who, 
no matter what else they do, must continually consume so 
that the great world machine can continue to run. The whole 
thing is a vast circular assembly line that must ever feed on 
itself or break down. Both designers and consumers gain all 
meaning in their lives from their relation to the organization, 
but at least the designers have some say in the direction of 
the future; the masses can only follow and consume. Con- 
sumption equals metaphysical meaning. 
“How, then, does the industrial equation go on? What is man’s 
relationship to it? The answer is that the larger the number 
served by the industrial equation, the more unit costs are 
lowered and the more universally its regenerative pattern 
simulations become distributed. This is to say that the 
greater the number of consumers, the more successful the 
industrial equation. The more people served, the more 
regenerative industry becomes. 
Industrial equation works 
toward man having infinite significance in the universe as a 
regenerative consumer.” 
p. 54 
“The biological competition (inherent in evolution) to 
accelerate standards of satisfaction bi-polarizes in total 
world struggle for management of the industrial complex. 
Continuous courting of world society as potential consumer 
by competitive world managements looms."’ 
p. 209 
é 
“This comprehensive design will include not only the 
network means of production, distribution, maintenance, 
search, research and continual improvement of service, 
but also the continual methodical withdrawal of progressively 
obsolete facilities tonnage, its reprocessing and recirculation 
at even higher performance ratios per pound of physical 
resource investment——together with design of the econ- 
omic implementation of greater numbers of consumers 
to match the increasingly tooled-up production capabilities, 
and together with designed consumer traffic patterning 
controls permitting higher frequencies and velocities of 
electively enjoyed services devoid of individual interference 
incidents and restraints.”.. 
p. 247 
But isn’t this only a bigger, grander, uglier version of 
what is wrong with this country now? Can you imagine 
how a world management would deal with a drop-out that 
went out and made his own instead of consuming his quota? 
Euthanasia, obviously; nothing else is efficient. 
In the January Supplement, page 18, there is a reprint of an 
article by Arthur |. Waskow describing three schools of 
futurists. Whichever school is right, it is obvious that the 
eliteist technocrats are wrong. 
It is equally obvious that 
Bucky Fuller is an eliteist designer, and that he is wrong, too. 
In Nine Chains to the Moon, there is a passage (or passages) 
which graphically and frighteningly demonstrate Fuller’s 
social structures. 
It concerns the creation of a Bible for 
“‘the populace” of the planet 80XK23 by the priests of the 
reigning faith, the scientists. 
“After our scientists had completed the bible as a rational 
abstract, ‘THE GAME OF LIFE,’ in explanation of duality 
delusion, we evolved our resolution...which represented a 
mutually agreeable method and process, for eliminating the 
fabric of delusion from our populace.” 
p. 36 
“Having completed our RESOLUTION in this scientific 
manner...we made a few actual tests of its efficacy by 
exposing ADVANCED, COMMUNALLY SCALED IN- 
STRUMENTS to the populace and by leaving these 
instruments in unattended evidence. 
“We then accelerated inevitable EMERGENCIES and 
found that the populace immediately seized on the 
AVAILABLE NEW INSTRUMENTS in the emergency, 
due to such instruments’ superior efficiency to that of 
any they had had before. 
“Before the emergency their snobbery of the instruments 
had been excruciatingly amusing. We thus proved that 
- 
our principle of social motivation into self-cleansing, through 
scientific-devices simply-exposed, was correct.’ pp. 365-66 
(All emphasis Fuller’s) 
How would you dig being a member of Fuller’s ‘populace’, 
what with artificially accelerated emergencies (wars, 
depressions, famines?) being let loose on you by scientists 
that could really only be called mad? 
Do you remember the bit in Orwell’s 1984 where random 
rockets fall on the city, and nobody knows if they are fired 
by the ‘enemy’, or by the government to keep the ‘populace 
at once afraid and patriotic? 
’ 
| know you said that it was Fuller’s insights that initiated 
the Catalogue. | think it’s a great thing, the Catalogue. | 
only ask you to look a little closer at your guru. 
Yours 
Cary James 
f 
Mill Valley, California 
12 
Cartridge Television 
IMPORTANT HORIZON 
EVR Electronic Video Recording 
Due in July 1970 from CBS and Motorola a new and ultimate 
format. A new process which means that 8, super8, 16 and 
35mm film and video tape can be transferred at computer 
speed to EVR film. The EVR film cartridge is played on its 
player, retail $790.00, which is hooked up by a single cable 
to a standard television set. This eliminates 
a number of 
problems. 
Like having 5 different projectors, Like many 
useless films will not be converted to this format, Like it is a 
chance for independent makers to distribute and develop new 
courses, educational ideas, etc. 
James Katavolos 
Director, Educational Marketing 
CBS-EVR 
51 West 52 Street 
N. Y., N. Y. 10019 
Write: 
| attended a press conference on EVR in LA, the second 
showing of the system, as a representative of the catalog. 
He was interested in the catalog and would like to receive a 
complimentary copy. As he is a young guy and in a strategic 
position, vis a vis the establishment, it would be be worth- 
while to keep in touch with. EVR looks fantastic. Like long 
playing records are to a record player, the EVR cartridge is 
to the EVR player. The player has no recording capabilities, 
— 
it is simply a playing machine. But one so simple to use and 
standardized (all film and video libs. and distributors are 
switching to this format) and small and lightweight (72” 
and 2 Ibs; think of storage and mailing) and silent (no projector 
noise) and has the visual advantages of TV (immediacy) and 
eventual capability of 600 line TV (vs 225 line today) that it 
will supercede anything else. It will transform education. 
Chip Chappell 
North Hollywood, CA 
From ONYX 
We have a technique (magic) for getting stuff through the mails 
faster. 
It has had complete effectiveness over the last few years 
except for 1 or two minor instances. 
It works like this: After 2 or 
three weeks, if it hasn‘t arrived, send a letter bitching about inaction. 
Invariably the item arrives the first or second day after you've posted 
your bitch. You're a good example; two days after our letter to you 
everything requested arrived. 
In spades. 
ONY X further suggests: 
Plastics World and Design News magazines Cahners Publications in 
Denver or Boulder, Colo. These are technologically mind-bending 
magazines. At the back are reader-service cards; on checking 
appropriate numbers, info will be sent by manufacturers advertising 
in the magazine and reprints of articles will be sent. The magazines 
are expensive to subscribe to but if you qualify, they are free, being 
a limited circulation type of mag. A recent sampling of info we've 
received includes Eastman 910 cement (super), Briskeat Catalog 
(plug in tape or fabrics which radiate HEAT), Master compressed 
air Flameless torches, Slide Lubricants Cat., Kett Tool Co., catalog 
w/info on the Kett Panel Master Saw—great for car tops!. 
The Master Flameless Torch might be worth looking into: Master 
Appliance Corporation, 1745 Hett Avenue, PO Box 545, Racine, 
Wisc., 53403 
: 
Also the Kett saw: 
The Kett Tool Company 
5055 Madison Road 
Cincinnati, Ohio 45227 
How about Hanscom-—Ties; they are paper or plastic wrapped wire 
in any length for quick tying and wrapping. Cheap. 
H. F. Hanscom & Co., Inc. 
225 Chapman Street 
Providence, R.|. 02905 
for free samples. 
‘1.F. Stone’s Weekly’ 
Now Published Bi-Weekly 
5618 Nebraska Ave., N.W, 
Washington, D. C. 20015 
(some tool) 
For a free sample copy send a stamped self-addressed envelope. 
We're involved in exploring: 
1. The Use of a consistently minimal dimension about which to 
organize a living space. 
2. The use of planar or columnar elements to relate living spaces to 
the solar system and universe. 
3.. The use of commonly centered cylinders and the flexible 
possibilities of their revolution within and without each other as a 
tool. 
4. A 28 hour day, six day week. 
and too many more. 
ONYX 
406E83 
NYC10028USA 
From Droppers 
Hello. 
Do you have, or does anyone know what are recent court decisions 
or laws concerning keeping kids 2ut of local schools? We aren't near 
good schools for kids and want to teach them here in our community. 
We don’t have anyone with a teaching certificate and are not far 
enough in the mountains or mobile enough to keep them out. Seems 
that to really do all the things that need to be done, we need to find 
way to treat kids as people in ways that don’t kill them. 
The Catalog keeps on getting better. Though there is almost too 
much stuff in it to see it all. Seems that a direction to go in would be 
to print up more information in the Catalog as well as sources of 
info, The letter sections are groovy. 
In a previous Supplement you 
had this solar heater, still, but would have been better to clearly 
describe principle rather than blueprint. Heater could easily be 
invented from clear principle. 
om 
Droppers 
Drop City 
Rt 1 Box 125 
Trinidad, Colo. 81082 
From John Holt 
‘ 
A number of years ago, in THE NATION, David Cort ran an article 
called ‘‘The Unspeakable Germ,” about the problems and possibility 
of usinghuman fecies as fertilizer. He happened to mention that a 
commercial rose grower in Darien, Conn, named Stanley Bullpit had 
developed a way to use, not only human 
fecies, but also shredded up 
newspapers to make a useful compost. At the time of writing, Bullpitt 
was getting some static from his neighbors, who had apparently gotten 
word of his dreadful doings, and | never did find out how the whole 
thing came out. 
It seems to me that this might be something worth 
investigating. 
| have recently sent a letter off to THE NATION 
asking them what happened, but you might get on it yourself. 
In general, there are not, as far as | know, good sources of information 
about people starting their own schools, A friend of mine, Denny 
Wilcher, head of the Walden Center Community School in Berkeley, 
is doing some research on some of the libertarian schools and hopes 
to have a book out within a year or two. He probably has as good 
information about that as anyone. 
On low-cost book purchasing | have a couple of tips. The Discovery 
| 
Book Shop at 245 Columbus Ave. in San Francisco sells new books 
at 1/3 off the regular price. What is even more important, at least 
to music lovers like myself, is that they sell records, both popular 
and classical which are virtually brand new, played once or twice by 
a reviewer or radio station—at the extraordinary price of $2.00 for 
a $5.98 list price record. The low cost labels go for around $1.00. 
This is a tremendous bargain, and should make it possible for schools 
‘so inclined to build up a pretty good collection without too much 
money. Another good source is The Twelfth House,.on Haste in 
Berkeley. Their prices are not quite so low, but their records are 
all in mint condition, and the guy running the joint, Bennett 
Tarshish, is a very good guy. 
However, what | was originally thinking of, is that many of the books 
originally published in this country are also published in Great Britain 
and can be ordered there for not much more than half of what they 
cost here. You have to order through a British book store. There are 
a number in London, but the one from whom | have had the best 
service is Blackwell's; Broadstreet, Oxford. From them you can get 
a catalogue. You can also get from them a catalogue of paperback 
books in print in Britain, and more specifically Penguin Books. British 
Penguins has a lot of superb titles that are not available in this country, 
and in any case they are cheaper than the American Penguins. 
Best, 
John 
Boston, Mass. 
From Nancy Buckey Press 
Dear Whole Earth Catalog— 
1. Add to your foam supplier list: 
Douglas & Sturgess 
’ 
730 Bryant St. 
San Francisco 
Lloyd Fox, the guy who runs the place, sells an impure foam which 
works in a 1 to 1 ratio, is brown in color (turns green to turquoise in 
the sun), & seems to be easier to work with than the pure, white kind. 
His prices are (or used to be) slightly lower than other outlets. 
1 gal. 
unit (20 Ibs) is $23.75 (or thereabouts). 100 Ibs is about $100.00. 
1000 Ibs. is $700 something. 
; 
I have never used this foam in the spraying method, but it pours well 
as long as it is indoors at 60 to 80°. 
Lloyd will furnish a spec sheet on request. 
2. Ran across a fine book in a Colorado library. Have since discovered 
it is out of print, but it had 5 or 6 editions so it might come out again, 
Handicraft: Simplified Procedure & Projects by Lester Griswold; 
Prentice-Hall. 
It contains a fantastic amount of info. for example: 
leather working (from tanning to making leather garments and moccasins), 
basket weaving (even using pine needles), how to make back packs, 
baby carriers, knotted hammocks; braiding, plaiting, & knotting; 
lapidary work, silver jewelry, etc. It costs about $10.00 but is worth 
it. Have been trying to run down a copy for months. 
_ Nancy Buckey Press .
¢ 
0.1 
> un 
j
F
i 
; 
~ 
j
