From Lloyd Kahn 
Still working on dome instruction booklet. Think you could 
run note in supplement asking for any information on dome 
building? I'm gathering information from everyone | know 
on their experiences in dome bldg., materials, connectors, 
waterproof membranes, geometries, etc. Already lots of data 
ee oot just Lloyd Kahn Big Sur CA 93920. Publish 
in fall. 
Incredible things starting to happen, as if general conscious- 
ness now picking up on idea of spherical bldgs. Emergence 
by emergency? Baldwin, Wingate brothers coming down this 
summer, we'll take’our time and get several beautiful and 
functioning domes ready to go and by fall offer them to 
mainstream. As we build, we'll continually experiment with 
‘new materials, and it looks like a full scale business is the only 
way to trap enough of that material plane energy to work 
out something really fine. As soon as | get back from Arizona 
will be working on monolithic translucent fiberglass shell 
with sliding shade screens. 
Wood has served us well but now trees are needed for photo- 
synthesis. Learned about polyurethane foam from Bill WOOD. 
There are 67,000 nails in the average house. Wood domes 
are like playing the piano with your feet. Nature will give us 
new materials as the balance is now threatened—recognize 
them when they appear. Rather live in a foam dome ina 
redwood grove, or a redwood home in a wasteland? I’m 
committed. 
Love to all you folks. 
Lloyd 
| no have anybody help me out. 
| was a poor man. 
Had to do alittle at a time. 
Live Forever, Sick to Death 
Dear Friends, 
Please warn Chuck Kesey that BHT has been made illegal 
in Britain. | read this, seemingly as a warning to American 
consumers, in a book Food Facts & Fallacies, by 
Freidrichs & 
or 
> 
& Freidrichs. 
It was just a footnote in there, but maybe Ck. could 
check it out before he eats further. 
It wouldn’t surprise me if we were all lethally allergic 
. 
to the fruits of the tree of life. 
Jude Harris 
From Wes Wilson 
Right now I’m getting into a glass sandblasting 
thing. I’m putting my paintings right into the 
glass plate and then lighting them from the 
edges. So far I’m still setting up the operation, 
but should have some pieces ready in another 
month. 
Did you know that you can obtain yellow 
pages from any city (in U.S., at least), if you 
have a telephone, merely by requesting same 
from the telephone company? | have often 
thought about getting a similar listing of 
manufacturers from Europe, but have never 
done so, not knowing where to go. Perhaps 
there is a European Chamber of Commerce? 
Wes Wilson 
Lagunitas, CA 
From Gregory Yob to Anybody 
The perpose ofa DN 
2 
° 
A bank 4s 
Store tfssue Samples of all spectes and vassteb tes eS 
\tfe for the future. 
onstdev the Caltfornfa Broun Peltcan, 
DDT 
ce te lay eggs with shells too weak to dies Rn decireee 
ove Pelfcans are betng hatched, 200s excepted 
Stnce tt Ps presently Wmposstble to evadrcate re 
DDT, the pelfcans face almost cevtatn extrnctton 
In the &tme needed Loe world-wide contyol of aes 
Ralie \et oe other pollutants, many other chee es 
ecome 
ext Pnct. Som 
‘ 
to Mavs part of the aves pe oe ee 
Followtng the \ead of those who Lceeze human 
bedtes for possthle vevivicatfon, T suggest eeztw 
Specimens of spectes subfect to ext?uction. 
I 
; 
also suggest thot other spectes be feozen to eal 
Serve 
varftant <t<ramns. 
f 
LT belteve Pt will be Pmportaht to ve-establesh 
specfes destroyed Pu the wert 20-50 yeavs, At the 
least, Samples wll be needed to allow design of 
WEW Ovganfams,. 
The cost o€ thes Prefect 
- $100,000 — $ 000,600 per 
year — PS modest 
compared with oor suevtval, Please 
Pass thts on to gemvtwely Puterested people, 
Nobody helped me. 
| think if | hire a man he don’t know what to do. 
A million times | don’t know what to do myself. 
| never had a single helper. 
‘From Bob Ploss 
Some of the people say what was he doing...some people 
think | was crazy and some people said: | was going to do 
something. 
| wanted to do something in the United States because | was 
raised here you understand? 
| wanted to do something for the United States because there 
are nice people in this country. 
Simon Rodia 
To San Francisco Good Times 
gaS 
from 
paul prensky & joyce gardner 
aos 
SoD 
New Mexico is NOT a Mecca on the Mesa- 
2.2 = 
it’s the Ghetto of Mecca. Too many half- 8 a is) 
truths are being told about the Southwest, O28 
creating an illusion which is a dangerous over 23 ro) 
simplification of what’s really going on. Peo- ‘3 cGy 
ple in the cities ought to know the other 
# 5 
side of the story—about how hippies are being 
2 
is) 
persecuted out here, about how the Indian 
a 
and Chicano people feel about this huge influx 
= 
of freaks, about the lands and the traditions, 
n 
which are a part of this place, and which’our Pero 
people-in their well-meaning ignorance-too Wom 
often desecrate, 
S85 
Since spring began, in March, longhairs o> © 
have been arriving in Taos in numbers which 
7's > 
constitute a deluge, and right now it isn’t x53 
working out. Things between the longhairs and 2 3 a 
the resident population are extremely uptight 
3 2a 
and people are getting hurt. Freaks are being 7 4 o 
shot, stabbed, beaten, threatened; hostility 
a8 
and violence 
are going both ways, and an 
= = 
atmosphere of vendetta is developing. 
oe 
Part of this is due to insensitivity andlack 
< 
of awareness on the part of longhairs, The 
Chicano culture here is in many ways quite 
closed and very repressed, and incidents of 
public nudity and balling have upset some 
people, not to mention more extreme cultural 
transgressions such as freaks, allegedly, break- 
ing into two kivas (sacred places)at the Taos 
Indian Pueblo, reportedly setting.one on fire. 
Taos (to take one of the most uptight 
places out here)is possessed 
by a small and 
' powerful conservative clique which has main- 
tained a classic colonial situation for many 
years-an affluent and organized Minutemen 
— 
group, as well as several independent vigilante 
committees pledged to rid Taos of the “hip- 
pies.” 
Any original hostilities or tensions towards 
the longhairs have been carefully cultivated 
and exaggerated by, the Taos establishment. 
For example, 
the annual Fiesta 
in Taos, 
which is an important source of income for 
Indian and Chicano people 
in the area, as 
well 
as for the big businessmen—has been 
called off this year on the pretext there would 
be too many hippies here and that this would 
~ 
constitute a “health menace.” Meanwhile, in 
Truchas-some 40 miles southeast. 
of Taos, 
the principal of the high school required stu- 
dents to make anti-hippie posters, and teach- 
ers exhorted 
children 
to throw rocks 
at 
hippies. 
Transplanted our strawberries today & started 
work on the power wheel for the river. Looks 
nS. 
Lam eautvog Lhe oxtuttha 
and mailing costs 
maselt. T deeply need contxth 
Fons, and Mnore Wap atant 
Comtacts with these who cay hele Me start this 
; 
like a spool drum from the telephone co. will 
protect, 
work well. 
Bob Ploss 
Slogan Park 
B.C. Canada 
People in Truchas, by the way, were angry 
at the hippies for at least one very good rea- 
son, There’s a stream in Truchas, which for 
some people constitutes the only source of 
water. This is their drinking water. Hippies 
came to Truchas and started washing their 
clothes and taking baths in the drinking water. 
People got uptight. They told the longhairs to 
cool, it. The longhairs were reasonable. But 
next week another carload of hippies came 
and the same thing happened all over again. 
Another example: a poor Chicano woman, 
with 10 children to feed, runs a diner. Some 
hippies (some of the first) came and asked her 
for free food, She felt sorry for them. She’s 
got ten kids to feed, but she gives them cof- 
fee and beans, That’s groovy. Same story re- 
peats itself a few times and this woman isn’t 
gonna be so friendly. This is not a land of 
milk and honey. This is not a Mecca. This is a 
poor land, with poor people, and most of 
them haven’t enough resources to care for 
their own families, much less being able to 
take care of a bunch of longhairs who (they 
know) mostly come from much richer places 
and much richer families, and who really ought 
to be able to take care of themselves. 
Unfortunately, our people have made the 
same mistakes here that we made on the Lo- 
wer East Side and in the Haight. We don’t 
bother to get to know our neighbors, to find 
out the local situation, to give them a chance 
to get to know us as people-instead of us as 
the media makes us out to be. No,we come 
in as strangers, We come to learn for the first 
time to live on the land. We come cause it got 
uptight somewhere else, we come bored or es- 
caping from big cities. We come cause the 
rents are cheap. We have our own needs and 
desires, and we remain as strangers. People 
don’t know what we’re all about, and they do 
get exposed to the mass media, and unless we 
car sit down and talk with them, work with 
them, bake good bread for them, then they’re 
- not going to understand where we’re at, and 
that can become dangerous, 
Out here, jobs are difficult, if not imposs- 
sible, to find, Unless you’re a teacher or a doc 
tor. This goes for longhairs, as well as Chic- 
anos and Indians. Hardly anybody will hire 
any of us, And what few jobs there are puts 
us in competition with the poor local people— 
which is a drag, 
‘ 
Out here, land is difficult to farm. Basic- 
ally, this is desert. Sand, There’s almost no 
topsoil. Other places, you put your seed in the 
ground, weed a little, and hope for the best. 
In New Mexico you’ve got to water your gar- 
den every single day or else your plants are 
gonna die, It’s hard work. And winters are 
pretty cold. And it’s not that easy to find 
wood to burn, 
NO, there are NOT large numbers of com- 
munities in the north which will welcome you 
with open arms, The fact that there are a few 
communes in New Mexico has created a myth, 
which is mostly illusion. There have been ac- 
tually three or four well-known 
fairly large 
communes in the area. The Domes, at Placitas, 
no longer exists. Residents were unable to pay 
a debt of three months back rent, and the 
place was 
sold toa 
private party. The Lower 
Farm, also in Placitas, is already overcrowded 
and may soon be closed down. New Buffalo, 
near Taos, is a relatively stable, wellestab- 
lished work community, and has neither the 
resources nor the space to accommodate many 
visitors, no matter how well intentioned. 
Further north is Lama Foundation, a rel- 
igious and work community. They only accept 
visitors on Sundays (this is a rigid rule) , and 
anyone wishing to remain longer must apply 
for a week’s invitation. And then there are 
maybe a few dozen smaller “families” around 
the Taos and Santa Fe areas, They try to be 
friendly, but once again, food and shelter are 
very limited, Existing communes have a much 
better chance of surviving without a constant 
stream of visitors, 
If you plan to come here, spend a few 
months first really finding out what’s going on 
here. This isn’t bourgeois America, this is one 
of America’s colonies: repressed, intimidated. 
Learn the history of the people and. their 
struggles. Find out how people feel about the 
land and how you could live your vision here 
without defiling theirs. Don’t come if you 
haven’t got what it takes to move slowly and 
self-sufficiently enough to get to know the 
people whose home these mountains are. Our 
people, too often, are in such a hurry to DO 
a thing that they will blunder through and 
make all kinds of mistakes before they finally 
get it all together. Meanwhile, the land suffers 
because of their mistakes, The local people 
have to pay the price of these mistakes. This 
creates hostility towards all of us. 
Think about the 120 year old struggle by 
Chicanos and the even older struggle by In- 
dians to get back millions of acres stolen by 
Anglo ranchers and their Anglo law buddies, 
Think about what it means for a new influx of 
Anglos-no matter how different their purpose 
from those others-to come in and buy up 
POBox 495 Cotat? , Caltfornia F4IZR 
Greqory rats 
land that the local people feel to be theirs 
and cannot afford to hold themselves. Think 
about the fact that a real estate agent in Taos 
reports having sold almost $500,000 worth of 
land to longhairs. If you’re even considering 
buying land out here, go slow. Find out the 
history of the land you want to live on. Find 
out how the local people feel about your being 
there. Don’t just move in, like so many Anglos 
before you, and flash your money around, If 
you can’t be brothers with your 
neighbors, 
then go someplace else. 
Before you come out here, read what has 
been done to the people here by the white 
man. Don’t just put on a long skirt and beads 
and think you understand the Indians: too 
many rich tourist ladies do that. Learn Span- 
ish; learn about everyday culture, about the 
tradition of courtesy and why not to presume 
upon it. Learn some humility. If you do these 
things, then we all have a much better chance 
to survive, here and everywhere else, without 
making enemies of people who should, who 
MUST, be our friends, 
None of our people, not any, will be able 
to stay in one place for more than a year or 
so in the coming times, What’s happening to 
us in the cities and now on the land, here in 
New Mexico, is clear: the process of our elim 
ination from the society that made and is out- 
lawing us is speeding up and getting bloodier. 
Either we get ourselves together and get to- 
gether with the other embat---: and oppress- 
ed people, or get blown away. This next year 
in New Mexico could be tragic. It could also 
be a new beginning. 
All in all, things are very uptight now, and 
they'll probably get worse during the summer. 
We’re writing because, besides wanting you to 
know what’s happening, we feel it might be 
better if people not come here without under- 
standing the complexity of the situation, and 
perhaps even let things get cooled out before 
coming at all. 
The above was printed in the San Francisco 
Good Times, an underground paper of 
consistently cheery and useful outlook. 
They printed a 2-page spread of items from 
the CATALOG along with a brief friendly 
review which had greater e/fect on our mail 
than any 
notice we’ve received except 
possibly Scientific American’s. As far as 
we’re concerned, any publication is welcome 
to 2-3 pages of our stuff any time. 
It’s nice 
if credit and access info is given. 
1 
| 
mii ed 
se 
