Winning Time 2:32. Who Won Is Debated. 
Aspen Meadows, New Mexico. Summer Solstice, 
1969 
Hugh Romney, who mustered this 1000 in this mountain 
pasture, is announcing the start of the Bus Race and that a 
At the starting line Hugh Romney mounts his bus. 
Feverish last minute preparations aboard Further. 
THE GREAT BUS RACE 
Everyone will go one trial run around the course: % mile up 
the meadow, around the flag, and back downhill to the starting 
line. Majestically the line of buses staggers up the course. 
‘‘I 
couple named John and Mary are somewhere around and 
be found because they have the bubonic plague and 
The survivors of the trial run line up. They’re immense, 
must 
require innoculation immediately. Everybody’s pretty 
innoculated already; it’s the spaciest part of the afternoon. 
The race was going to be one bus at a time against the clock, 
but Ken Kesey and others are maintaining that’s a chickenshit 
It’s got to be all at once. 
And it’s begun. Road Hog gets off first. Further is dragging. 
The air is filled with buses and exhaust and din. They wallow 
race. 
_The buses are Kesey’s renowned Further, with a skeleton 
crew of Farmsters aboard, and the Hog Farm’s fleet: Road 
Hog, 
tight 
don't know about this,”” says Mike Hagen, ‘’Further ain't got 
much brakes.’’ The Hospital Bus is stalled half-way up the 
hill right where :t’s almost impossible to get around. 
Reportedly it also ran over a pup tent (unoccupied). 
these faded colorful wrecks filled with folly. People are 
climbing off, others are climbing on. 
It’s a test of passengers 
as much as drivers. The mood is pure: fatalistic optimism. 
up the pasture like berserk pigs. As Further sways past the 
grounded Hospital Bus Kesey disappears over the windshield 
Hospital Bus, Kitchen Bus, etc. The Motherfuckers’ 
shouting orders to driver Bucavich. Over there in the bushes 
little bus is around but not in the race. 
poveane toward the first turn Kesey has an excellent view of the rear of the Hog Farm 
eet. 
the Foot Swami from India is watching it all go by. 
Tied up at the flag, Romney 
is visible on the track below. 
Further approaches the flag from the left. The Kitchen Bus 
with Romney on top is coming around the other way. They 
intersect, pass narrowly, and ram into opposite hillsides, 
then rev and back blindly toward each other. Frantic 
shouting gets them forward again. For a moment the entire 
solstice is tied in a sweet mad knot at the top of the pasture. 
Bucavich gets Further around. The Kitchen Bus is still hung 
with a rear bumper gouged in the creek bed. Rocket, who’s 
driving, surges again and gets it free. The buses swarm down- 
hill. Hugh Romney’s mouth is wide open, his toothless 
warning wailing down the pasture, ““BEEE CARRREFUULLLL.” 
At the finish line a thousand longhairs cheer and dodge. 
Afterward, at the award-giving argument, Romney is saying, 
“A miracle. 
It’s a pure miracle nobody was killed.” Kesey 
is saying, ‘“Two minutes thirty-two seconds. 
It’s something 
to think about for next year.” 
Further ain’t got much brakes. 
and Further pass in opposite directions. Fierce bus action 
