18 
Whole Systems 
NATURAL HISTORY 
“Natural history .. 
. is ecology 
expressed in the details of biology.” 
—E. O. Wilson, The Diversity of 
Life 
End of the twentieth century. Ecology theory flounders, ecology work 
flourishes, and ecopolitics ignores the science when it doesn’t please the 
powers that be. From a naturalist’s eye, small understandings undid grandiose 
mental structures. Ecochemistry was the greatest subversive. Gone are the 
days of rabbits and bobcats. Instead, please welcome chemical messengers like 
the odor trails of ants or chemical defenses like the tannins in oak leaves or 
chemical signals like the perfume of the female cockroach or chemical 
| metabolisms like the microbial detox centers in many insect guts that render 
pesticides harmless. From flower scents to transforming tadpoles, the partici- 
pation of atoms cannot be ignored. Species may just be gorgeous containers 
for the rearrangement of molecules. (Now only available in techno-read: 
Introduction to Ecological Biochemistry). 
Ecologists are in search of new words and harmonies: 
* Herbivority is out. Instead, the naturalist asks: does the animal clip, 
skeletonize, perforate, roll, spin, mine, rasp, or suck the leaf? Does it tunnel, 
strip or suck the bark? Does it sip nectar, eat pollen, or munch the flower’s 
receptacle? Can ecologists really judge the availability of resources from the 
organism’s point of view? 
* “Balances of nature” and “equilibrium” are out. Instead, disturbances, erratic 
| catastrophes, and pastiche habitats are the everyday happenings of ecology. 
Ecologists are looking for patterns in this world of chaotic events (some of 
them caused by ourselves). Some ecologists now believe the earth has no 
harmonies (see Discordant Harmonies, below). Others seek harmonies equiva- 
lent to the polyrhythms of African drumming or the vibrational overtones of 
Indian raga in the layerings of natural time. 
* Tooth ’n’ claw competition in a non-equilibrium world has lost favor. What 
do the rabbits and foxes do when the ecosystem tilts? Replacing old macho 
competition, long-term success may now come from teaming up. So, 
mutualisms are “in” as they provide for some stability: the inseparable termite- 
microbe or ubiquitous plant-fungi “organism.” 
* The teleconnection of global weather patterns as overriding shapers of 
ecosystems is “in.” El Nifio events, starting in the South Pacific, determine fire 
events in Yellowstone or the breeding of petrels off the coast of California. Just 
| as the biochemical mediators of nature are invisible, so the weather patterns 
of the planet have been invisible — until satellite photos. 
The new naturalist dwells in the invisibles of chemistry and planetary weather 
as wellas the visibles. But no readable book exists on the new ecology. We are 
| left with the Discover Channel and technical papers. So much for books. —PW 
Feeding Strategy * Camouflage and Mimicry 
Two beautifully illustrated intros to who-eats-who and 
how: the still visible parts of the eco-web. —PW 
FEEDING | 
Feeding Strategy 
Jennifer Owen. University of Chicago Press, 
1982; 160 pp. ISBN 0-226-64186-4 
$12.50 ($15.50 postpaid) 
Camouflage and Mimicry 
Denis Owen. University of Chicago Press, 
1982; 160 pp. ISBN 0-226-64188-0 
$12.50 ($15.50 postpaid) 
Both from Chicago Distribution Center, 
11030 S. Langley Avenue, Chicago, IL. 
60628; 800/621-2736 
A frog approaches a bombardier beetle. The 
beetle squirts a hot spray of unpleasant liquid 
into the frog’s face. The gasping frog sits 
back and the beetle escapes. 
— Camouflage and Mimicry 
A water strider depends on the 
forces of surface tension to support 
its weight. 
| 
‘ 
: 
N 
R § 
On Size and Life 
* Chemical Communication 
These crossover booksconnect lay readers and 
scientists and multiple disciplines. Beautifully il- 
lustrated, with clear prose. Hints of futuristic 
naturalist-ecologist job descriptions. —PW 
On Size and Life 
Thomas McMahon & James Bonner. 
Scientific American Library, 1983; 
255 pp. ISBN 0-7167-5000-7 
Chemical Communication 
(The Language of Pheromones) 
William C. Agosta. Scientific 
American Library, 04/1992; 192 pp. 
ISBN 0-7167-5036-8 
Each $32.95 ($35.95 postpaid) from 
W. H. Freeman and Company, 
4419 W. 1980 S., Salt Lake City, 
UT 84104; 800/488-5233 
Concepts of Ecology 
This is the ecology of 
the 1970s, 
clearly illustrated and told. —PW 
e 
In 1904 the sac fungus Endothia parasitica 
was accidently introduced into the US, be- 
ing first discovered in the Bronx Zoo. In its 
native China Endothia parasitica is a parasite 
on the bark of the oriental chestnut and is 
kept in check by a variety of natural factors. 
In the United States, however, the majestic, 
towering American chestnut (Cata-nea 
dentata) proved no match for the fungus. 
By 1950 about 3.6 million hectares of Amer- 
ican chestnut trees were dead or dying. Ex- 
cept for adventitious shoots from the roots, 
the American chestnut was virtually extinct. 
e 
Ecology's roots extend to the origins of 
steer 
 @|ROWARDKORMONDY 
Concepts of Ecology 
Edward J. Kormondy. 1984; 288 pp. 
ISBN 0-13-166702-5 
$37.80 ($40.80 postpaid) from Prentice- 
Hall Press/Order Processing Center, PO 
Box 11071, Des Moines, IA 50336-1071; 
800/947-7700 
humanity. Our ancestors had to have been 
students of their environment, else our 
species would have been extinguished. 
Whaat Pattern Lasts? (OtHer Great Resources 
The deep search for patterns in natural history 
has taxed human cleverness. We now compare 
old photos to new to see if anything really has 
changed, or measure tree rings for fire stories. 
The best stuff has yet to come: long-term re- 
search on the same spot of Earth. Here are 
some of the excruciating techno-boring prose 
probes for patterns. That's all there is. 
The Ecological Web (H. G. Andrewartha 
& L. C. Birch. University of Chicago Press, 1986). 
Natural history marries scientific method with- 
out losing its richness. Required reading for ma- 
niacal naturalists. 
Biogeochemistry of a Forested Ecosystem 
(G. E. Likens. Springer-Verlag, 1991) and Pat- 
tern and Process in a Forested Ecosystem 
(F. H. Bormann & G. E. Likens. Springer-Verlag, 
1991) . Two classics of invisible biogeochemistry 
| and the vaporous past. 
The Pattern of Animal Communities 
(Charles S. Elton, 1966. John Wiley & Sons; Out 
of Print). One of the few with a longer-term per- 
spective of patchiness and populations. Elton is 
this century's great eco-thinker. His very read- 
able classics are Animal Ecology and The Ecology 
of Invasions by Animals and Plants. 
The Changing Mile (James Rodney Hastings & 
Raymond M. Turner. University of Arizona 
Press, 1965), Second View (Mark Klett, Ellen 
Manchester, Joann Verburg, Gordon Bushaw, & 
Rick Dingus. University of New Mexico Press. 
| 
1984), Stopping Time (Peter Goin. University 
of New Mexico Press, 1992). The three best 
books on retaking old photos from the same 
spot and comparing what happened (if anything). 
Lake Sediments and Environmental His- 
tory (Elizabeth Haworth & John Lund. University 
of Minnesota Press, 1984). A complex technique. 
If you want to know a lake's history, try pollen 
samplings in the bottom layers or tracking ero- 
sion through the layers themselves. 
Packrat Middens (Julio Betancourt, Thomas 
Van Devender & Paul Martin, Editors. University 
of Arizona Press, 1990). Packrats hoard what- 
ever’s nearby, They urinate on their nests, which 
fossilize into shiny elliptoids. The fossil middens 
show what grew in the local watershed. The only 
book on these midden detectives. 
- 
Appl 
Wy, 
: 
: 
No's| 6, 
Apple — damp site 
e — dry site 
Tree Rings (Fritz Schweingruber. Kluwer 
Academic Pulblications, 1989). The only book. 
Introduction to Ecological Biochemistry. 
J. B. Harborne. Academic Press, 1988. 
Discordant Harmonies: A New Ecology for 
the Twenty-First Century. Daniel B. Botkin. 
Oxford University Press, 1992. 
The Wealth of Nature. Donald Worster. 
Oxford University Press, 1993. 
Forest Primeval. Chris Maser, 1994. 
Sierra Club Books. 
