Self-Defense for Kids 
live in an otherwise lovely suburban neighborhood where the bogeyman 
actually did carry little girls away and do horrible things to them. First, a 
soccer coach was convicted of molesting at least eight girls, ages six to 
eight. Then, a year later, a twelve year old, Polly Klaas, was snatched from her 
bedroom thirty miles from here and murdered. What do you say to your little 
girl when her worst fantasies are in the daily headlines? 
| took my daughter to a psychotherapist. The therapist said “the girl is 
frightened.” My daughter pointed out that everybody knew that the things that 
frightened her were real: “It’s on the television news every night.” So | took 
her to a local Taekwondo (a Korean form of karate) class. We were fortunate 
to find the right teacher on our first try. 
In two years, her teacher tells me, Mamie will be strong enough and skilled 
enough to take down a grown man against his will, if she has to. But dealing with 
her fear turned out to be only a small part of the benefits: the art of self-defense 
isa physical challenge that can be breathtakingly graceful; my daughter and many 
of the other little girls in my daughter’s class take to Taekwondo the way other 
peers take to ballet, with all the same poise and precision. Beyond getting rid 
of the fear is learning self-respect, and the ability to look other people in the 
eye. There is discipline and self-discipline, but no cruelty, and much respect. 
It isn’t for everybody, but | highly recommend martial-arts training for all 
children who are willing to try, provided that the teacher is strict enough (there 
is no such thing as a chaotically supervised martial-arts class for kids), caring 
enough (you can tell by watching a sensei work with children whether the 
children love and respect their teacher), patient enough (give high marks to a 
sensei who makes a special effort with the most awkward beginners), and 
respectful enough of his students as people (walk out if a 
sensei ever humiliates 
a child). Sit through a couple of classes. You don’t want a drill sergeant. You 
want somebody who can teach your children how to deal with the scariest parts 
of their lives. I’ve seen children as young as six thrive with the right teacher. 
All martial-arts classes should welcome observers; if they don’t, you wouldn't 
want to be a student there, anyway. —HLR 
Mi Zeng Wei, 
granddaughter 
of Internal 
Arts Master 
Wen-Mei Yu. 
Learning 
SELF-DEFENSE FOR KIDS 
| own natural defense 
| come. This downward 
Protecting Children from Danger 
If you want to give your children the 
best chance of surviving into the next 
millennium, teach them how to deal 
with fires and other emergencies, fire- 
arms and armed people, kidnappers 
and sexual predators. Teach them the 
self-reliance, self-respect, and street 
skills they are going to need when you 
can't be around to protect them. 
My daughter, my wife and I, and a 
dozen other families, spent most of a 
day with one of the authors of this 
book in a workshop that was enjoy- 
able and warm despite the grim sub- 
ject matter. Bob Bishop and Matt 
Thomas teach common sense, self-reli- 
ance, and specific techniques for deal- 
ing with dangerous situations, which 
are rehearsed over and over again. 
This book is essential for parents 
and teachers. —HLR 
e 
Self-esteem is the basis for anyone’s behav- 
ior during a crisis. How have we prepared 
our children? At one extreme, if we per- 
ceive them as completely inadequate in the 
face of danger, and they 
in turn mirror this atti- 
tude, then except for 
natural defense mecha- 
nisms, they are left tragi- 
cally unprepared for 
danger or crisis. At the 
other extreme, they 
might feel unrealistically 
confident. However, 
given the opportunity to 
develop courage and ex- 
perience success, they 
will expect to succeed. 
Changing our children’s 
self-expectations in daily 
life is crucial to preparing 
them for emergencies. 
Overprotection actually 
decreases children’s self- 
esteem and forces them 
to withdraw from their 
mechanisms. The more 
over-protective we are, 
the more they retreat 
into our shadows. The 
more we see them in 
our shadows, the more 
over-protective we be- 
spiral ultimately limits growth and fosters 
resentment. Anyone with a teenager knows 
this spiral well. 
e 
If none of this 
works, and the 
child is under the 
control of the as- 
sailant, it is abso- 
lutely essential for 
the child not to 
give up, but to 
recognize that this 
is only a tempo- 
rary setback. We 
call this waiting for 
the opening. And 
when the opening 
comes, the child 
needs to use sur- 
prise, distraction, 
and physical lever- 
Wrong 
Protecting Children From Danger 
(Building Self-Reliance and 
Emergency Skills without Fear) 
Bob Bishop & Matt Thomas. 1993; 
185 pp. ISBN 1-55643-159-7 
$12.95 ($15.45 postpaid) from North 
Atlantic Books, PO Box 12327, Berkeley, 
CA 94712; 510/559-8277 
age simultaneously to escape. For example, 
if an abductor has the child in a car and 
pulls up to a stop light, the child can open 
the car door, scream, kick the abductor, 
and then quickly jump out. For such a strat- 
egy to work, the child must know how dif- 
ferent types of car doors and locks work. 
This is something that parents can do with 
their children. Whenever you're in a different 
car, make sure that your child understands the 
locking mechanism and how to get the door 
open quickly. 
Right 
Observation from hiding places. 
361 
