Whole Systems 
ANTHROPOLOGY 23 
The Interpretation of Cultures 
Around a hundred thousand years ago, 
something blasted our branch of pri- 
mates out of some very old behavior 
patterns and moved us irrevocably into 
something radically different. Instead 
of just passing along genetic traits, we 
began passing along alphabets, astro- 
nomical observations, tool-making lore, 
rules for behaving in the presence of 
your wife's uncle: Culture. What is cul- 
ture? How did it originate? What holds 
it together? 
Anthropology has been a grail quest 
for the deepest generalities that con- 
nect every member of our species, de- 
spite the particularities of Islam or 
suburbia, tribes or corporations. By 
analyzing many different examples 
of human behavior, social scientists 
sought to understand these general 
principles through a process of induc- 
tion; ethnography, the real-world basis 
for the symbolic calisthenics of anthro- 
pologists, was the raw data. That 
was the conventional wisdom 
before Geertz. 
Clifford Geertz insists that ethnogra- 
phers engage in ‘thick description,” 
more akin to literature than chemical 
analysis; that there is no universality, 
but that the truth about human na- 
ture is deeply connected with our 
adaptability, our capacity for 
becoming that which our culture 
tells us we can become. —HLR 
e 
The “control mechanism” view of culture 
begins with the assumption that human 
thought is basically both social and public 
— that its natural habitat is the house 
yard, the marketplace, and the town 
square. Thinking consists not of “happen- 
ings in the head” (though happening there 
and elsewhere are necessary for it to oc- 
cur) but of a traffic in what have been 
called, by G. H. Mead and others, signifi- 
cant symbols — words for the most part 
but also gestures, drawings, musical 
sounds, mechanical devices like clocks, or 
natural objects like jewels — anything, in 
fact, that is disengaged from its mere ac- 
tuality and used to impose meaning upon 
experience. From the point of view of any 
particular individual, such symbols are 
largely given. He finds them already cur- 
rent in the community when he is born, 
and they remain, with some additions, 
subtractions, and particular alterations he 
may or may not have had a hand in, in cir- 
culation after he dies. While he lives he 
uses them, or some of them, sometimes 
deliberately and with care, most often 
spontaneously and with ease, but always 
with the same end in view: to put a con- 
struction upon the events through which 
he lives, to orient himself within “the on- 
going course of experienced things,” to 
adopt a vivid phrase of John Dewey's. 
Man is so in need of such symbolic 
sources of illumination to find his bearings 
in the world because the nonsymbolic 
sort that are constitutionally ingrained in 
his body cast so diffused a 
light. The be- 
havior patterns of lower animals are, at 
least to a’much greater extent, given to 
them with their physical structure: ge- 
netic sources of information order their 
actions with much narrower ranges of 
The Interpretation 
of Cultures 
The Interpretation of Cultures 
Clifford Geertz, Basic Books Inc., 1977; 
480 pp. ISBN 0-465-09719-7 
$15 ($17.75 postpaid) from HarperCollins 
Publishers/Direct Mail, PO Box 588, Dunmore, 
PA 18512; 800/331-3761 
variation, the narrower and more thor- 
oughgoing the lower the animal. For man, 
what are innately given are extremely gen- 
eral response capacities, which, although 
they make possible far greater plasticity, 
complexity, and, on the scattered occasions 
when everything works as it should, effec- 
tiveness of behavior, leave it much less pre- 
cisely regulated. This, then, is the second 
face of our argument: Undirected by cul- 
tural patterns — organized systems of sig- 
nificant symbols — man’s behavior would 
be virtually ungovernable, a mere chaos of 
pointless acts and exploding emotions, his 
experience virtually shapeless. Culture, the 
accumulated totality of such patterns, is not 
just an ornament of human existence but 
— the principal basis of its specificity — an 
essential condition for it. 
Local Knowledge 
The cracks between worldviews, the 
elements of worldviews, the parallel 
universes of worldviews, and the institu- 
tion-warping power of worldviews seem 
to be Geertz territory. 
Local Knowledge is a spearhead, driven 
deep into the contemporary controversy 
over the meaning of meaning by an 
anthropologist who thinks about matters 
anthropologists never thought about 
before. Most importantly for the non- 
specialist, Clifford Geertz knows how to 
write a spellbinding sentence about the 
most esoteric topic. —HLR 
e 
To see ourselves as others see us can be 
eye-opening. To see others as sharing a na- 
ture with ourselves is the merest decency. 
But it is from the far more difficult achieve- 
ment of seeing ourselves amongst others, 
as a local example of the forms human life 
has locally taken, a case among cases, a 
world among worlds, that the largeness of 
mind, without which objectivity is self-con- 
gratulation and tolerance a sham, comes. If 
interpretive anthropology has any general 
office in the world it is to keep reteaching 
this fugitive truth. 
e 
We like to think that the reality principle is 
good for us, except perhaps when it finally 
kills us. But a serious effort to define our- 
selves by locating ourselves among different 
others — others neither distanced as Mar- 
tians, discredited as Primitives, nor dis- 
armed as universal Everypersons, bent like 
us on sex and survival — involves quite 
genuine perils, not the least of which are in- 
tellectual entropy and moral paralysis. The 
double perception that ours is but one 
voice among many and that, as it is the only 
one we have, we must needs speak with it, 
is very difficult to maintain. What has been 
well called the long conversation of man- 
Always Coming Home 
What better way to spark your thinking 
about the complex whole systems we call 
cultures than to invent one of your own? 
The visionary novelist Ursula Le Guin 
provides the model here. 
Always Coming Home is an “archaeology 
of the future” about a people living in 
California's Napa Valley sometime after 
the traumatic destruction of our society. 
What sets this novel apart from other 
futurist or fantasy writing is its loving devo- 
tion to the concrete particulars of Kesh cul- 
ture. The main story takes only about a 
fifth of the book. The remainder invites us 
to immerse ourselves in Kesh poems, sto- 
ries, wordplay, computer archives, rhymed 
insults, oral histories, ceremonies, instruc- 
tions for dying. There are more than a hun- 
dred drawings by Margaret Chodos of 
Kesh scenes and artifacts; an audiotape of 
Kesh music (by Oregon composer Todd 
| Barton) is available by mail order. 
The book shows the way a whole grows 
from many parts; it embodies the possibil- 
ity of appreciating the pattern without los- 
ing sight of the pieces. It points to the 
clues by which cultures reveal themselves 
and sets me to asking what pieces | would 
offer an archaeologist bent on building a 
picture of the culture in which | live. 
| —Michael K. Stone 
A VAUNTING 
| From the town of Tachas Touchas. 
The musicians of Tachas Touchas 
make flutes of the rivers, make drums of 
| the hills. 
The stars come out to listen to them. 
People open the doors of the Four Houses, 
they open the windows of the rainbow, 
Always Coming Home 
Ursula K. Le Guin. Bantam Books/Spectra, 
1985; 562 pp. 
ISBN 0-553-26280-7 
$5.99 ($8.49 postpaid) 
from Bantam, Doubleday, 
Dell/Fulfillment Dept., 
2451 South Wolf Road, 
Des Plaines, IL 60018; 
800/223-6834 
Music and Poetry 
of the Kesh 
Todd Barton (music) & Ursula K. Le Guin (lyrics) 
$12 postpaid from Valley Productions, PO Box 
3220, Ashland, OR 97520 
to listen to the musicians of Tachas 
Touchas. 
A RESPONSE 
From the town of Madidinou. 
The musicians of Tachas Touchas 
make flutes of their noses, make drums of 
their buttocks. 
The fleas run away from them. 
People shut the doors in Madidinou, 
they shut the windows in Sinshan, 
when they hear the musicians of Tachas 
Touchas coming. 
SAYINGS 
If there was only one of anything, it would 
be the end of the world. 
Judgment is poverty. 
If you don’t teach machines and horses to 
do what you want in their way they'll teach 
you to do what they want in your way. 
Owning is owing, having is hoarding. 
Like and different are quickening words, 
brooding and hatching. Better and worse 
are eggsucking words, they leave only the 
shell. 
(Further Essays in Interpretive Anthropology) 
Clifford Geertz. Basic Books Inc., 1985; 
256 pp. ISBN 0-465-04162-0 
$15 ($17.75 postpaid) from HarperCollins 
| 
Publishers/Direct Mail, PO Box 588, Dunmore, 
| 
PA 18512; 800/331-3761 
Local Knowledge 
| 
| 
kind may be growing so cacophonous that 
ordered thought of any sort, much less the 
turning of local forms of legal sensibility 
into reciprocal commentaries, mutually 
deepening, may become impossible. But 
however that may be, there is, so it seems 
to me, no choice. The primary question, for 
any cultural institution anywhere, now that 
nobody is leaving anybody alone and isn’t 
ever going to, is not whether everything is 
going to come seamlessly together or 
whether, contrariwise, we are all going to 
persist sequestered in our separate preju- 
dices. It is whether human beings are going 
to continue to be able, in Java or Connecti- 
cut, through law, anthropology, or anything 
else, to imagine principled lives they can 
practicably lead. 
