28 
Whole Systems 
HISTORY 
After the Fact 
The way historians work is as fascinat- 
ing as the past they recapture. Using 
what the authors term “the appren- 
tice approach,” this book analyzes 
fourteen incidents from America's past 
to illustrate the wide range of de- 
mands facing historians. There are no 
footnotes, the prose is readable, and 
the incidents included are intriguing. 
This isn’t a names-and-dates history 
text like those we encountered in high 
school, but something better — a his- 
torical work meant for nonacademic 
adults. —Katherine Kindscher-Waters 
e 
For better or worse, historians inescapably 
leave an imprint as they go about their 
connections between subjects that had 
not seemed related before, shifting and 
rearranging evidence until it assumes a 
coherent pattern. The past is not history; 
only the raw material of it. 
e 
In evaluating pictorial evidence, historians 
must establish the historical context of a 
After the Fact 
(The Art of Historical Detection) 
James W. Davidson & Mark H. Lytle. 1982, 
1993; 398 pp. ISBN 0-07-015609-3 
$27.50 ($32 postpaid) from McGraw-Hill 
Publishing Co., Blue Ridge Summit, PA 
17214; 800/262-4729 
painting just as they would establish the 
context of any document. They must be 
sensitive to the artistic conventions that 
shape or even distort a painting’s subject 
matter. And they must be prepared to ac- 
knowledge that some paintings provide 
more information about their creator than 
about the subject being portrayed. When 
visual clues are combined with other 
printed source materials, whether they be 
the pedestrian trading inventories of blue 
glass beads or the literary fantasies of nov- 
elists, pictorial evidence can vivify historical 
narrative and deepen our understanding of 
American culture. 
Robert Oppenheimer, on 
the reaction of scientists 
watching the detonation of 
the first atomic bomb in 
New Mexico: “A few 
people laughed, a few 
people cried, most people 
were silent. There floated 
through my mind a line 
from the Bhagavad-Gita in 
which Krishna is trying to 
persuade the Prince that 
: 
_ ™ he should do his duty: ‘I 
_ 
am become death, the 
shatterer of worlds.’ | 
think we all had this feel- 
ing, more or less.” The 
photograph is of an atomic 
blast detonated at Bikini 
Island in July 1946. 
Inventing the Middle Ages 
History is more than a mirror; as 
Norman Cantor shows here, it is a hall 
of mirrors. Its images, which can trans- 
form our understanding of the present, 
themselves reflect the perspectives 
and preoccupations (and often the 
prejudices) of the historians who pro- 
duced them. In this masterful portrayal 
of the lives and work of the major 
twentieth-century medievalists, current 
visions of the Middle Ages emerge 
from a melange of methods and moti- 
vations in which painstaking 
scholarship and brilliant insights are 
mixed liberally with personal quirki- 
ness, ego collisions, xenophobia, quests 
for happier worlds. 
Cantor does for historians what James 
Watson's Double Helix did for scien- 
tists — brings them alive in all their 
human complexity. The book is also a 
great read, passionate, learned, hu- 
morous, gossipy. Cantor illuminates 
(and makes me care about) the 
Middle Ages while giving tools and 
context vital for reading any history. 
—Michael K. Stone 
e 
What Curtius wants is affirmation of conti- 
nuity and homogeneity of ideas in the 
Middle Ages and in European culture in 
general because without this affirmation of 
structural consistency over time, the way is 
open for the radicals of left and right to 
corrupt with treacherous ideas and devas- 
tate Western civilization. . 
. . 
We must give up the temptations of intel- 
lectual innovation. Curtius is arguing in 
favor of the preservation of a continuous 
literary culture that will protect humanity 
from what happened in Germany in the 
Civilization and Capitalism, |5th-1 8th Century 
For the general reader seeking the on- 
gins of today’s market economy, these 
volumes provide the best possible intro- 
duction. 
Gibbon was the greatest historian of the 
eighteenth century, Macaulay of the 
nineteenth, and Braudel of the twenti- 
eth. Gibbon and Macaulay wrote 
narrative history about kings and em- 
perors; Braudel (1902-85) wrote 
analytic history about driving forces, long 
trends, and the maternal culture of 
everyday life. 
Braudel combined a deep knowledge 
of both history and geography to be- 
come the first economic historian to 
understand (for example) the impor- 
tance of changes over the centuries in 
the weather, the incidence of disease, 
and the flow of trade. The silting of 
harbors, the harvest cycles, and reduc- 
tion in travel times meant far more to 
A brickworks in the English countryside. The smoke pouring from chimneys like these was already 
being accused of polluting the air in the eighteenth century. —The Perspective... 
him than results on the battlefields or 
in the marriage beds of royalty. 
Reading Braudel is like traveling in a 
helicopter with the ability to swoop 
down for a close look at some amaz- 
ing piece of 
the historical landscape, 
and to soar up into the sky to see the 
complex patterns of 
ordinary life. No 
historian has ever made such convinc- 
ing and telling use of generalization 
backed up by an uncanny ability to 
spot details in support. 
—Napier Collyns 
Civilization and Capitalism, 
15th-18th Century 
Fernand Braudel. Sian Reynolds, Translator. 
Volume |: The Structures of Everyday 
Life. 1981; 623 pp. ISBN 0-520-081 14-5 
Volume 2: The Wheels of Commerce. 
1982; 670 pp. ISBN 0-520-081 15-3 
Volume 3: The Perspective of the 
World. 1984; 699 pp. ISBN 0-520-081 16-1 
Each $25.50 postpaid from California/ 
Princeton Fulfillment Services, |445 Lower 
Ferry Road, Ewing, NJ 08618; 800/777-4726 
1930s. The railroad track to Auschwitz 
starts where formalism ends. 
e 
Britain hadn’t recovered psychologically 
before the sixties, possibly the eighties, 
perhaps never, from those miserable 
photos of February 1942, showing slim, 
diminished, embarrassed British officers in 
their little khaki shorts surrendering 
Singapore to exultant, masterful Japanese 
generals, or those heart-stopping photos of 
smiling young British bomber crews about 
to leave for their near-suicidal night mis- 
sions over Germany in 1943 and 1944 and 
the loss of 59,000 air crews, the cream of a 
generation, at least half of them secondary 
school and college graduates. . . . 
This was the sad ambience, the bitter, de- 
pleted world in which Lewis and Tolkien 
wrote. They had, however, a more positive 
response to these conditions and events 
than the postimperial stoicism, cultural de- 
spair, and resigned Christian pessimism that 
were the common response of their British 
contemporaries. They were not prepared 
imaginatively and intellectually to withdraw 
and accept defeat. Out of the medieval 
Norse, Celtic, and Grail legends, they con- 
jured fantasies of revenge and recovery, an 
ethos of return and triumph. As Chaucer 
said in Troilus and Criseyde, they aimed 
“to make dreams truth and fables 
histories.” 
e 
Strayer taught graduate students in the 
Haskins manner by intimidation and by con- 
centration on narrow research study of 
administrative records. He spent two years 
(1951-53) doing nothing else in his seminar 
but reading medieval tax rolls, first of En- 
gland, then of France. When | proposed 
that | do a report on the Thomist idea of 
kingship, he told me | should consider 
transferring to the philosophy department. 
“Sure, that is part of medieval history,” he 
said, glowering through his inevitable cigar, 
“but the philosophers will never study tax 
rolls. If we historians don’t do it, nobody 
will, so we have to do it.” There was a logic 
in this, after a fashion... . 
Strayer never turned on the overhead lights 
in his office during a seminar. The seminar 
met for three hours at 2:00 p.m. The office 
was a long, narrow room with only one 
window. By 4:00 p.m. in winter it was so 
dark that it was impossible to read one’s 
notes. One day | had the gall to ask Strayer 
why he didn’t turn on the lights. “So you 
dummies will not be able to bore us by 
reading your verbose notes and will have to 
speak succinctly from memory.” A good 
lesson. 
[VENTING 
ppLe AGES 
fama 
pn 
wef 
111 
(nL 
Norman EGAN 
Inventing the Middle Ages 
(The Lives, Works, and Ideas of the Great 
Medievalists of the 20th Century) 
Norman F. Cantor. Quill Books, 1991; 
477 pp. ISBN 0-688-09406-6 
$28 ($29.50 postpaid) from William Mor- 
row and Co,/Wilmore Warehouse, 39 
Plymouth Street, Fairfield, NJ 07004 
