Sustainability 
80 WATER 
Sensitive Chaos 
Flowing forms our heart, cyclones, riv- 
ers and birdflight. We flowed as em- 
bryos, and our bones still spiral and 
loop with the markings of 
past eddy 
currents. Here is spiritual guidance in 
the greatest book of Jungian-Taoist 
fluid history. —Peter Warshall 
| 
@ 
Trains of vortices arise if a solid object is 
drawn in a straight line through stationary 
liquid. 
In the open sea mighty vortices can arise in 
which the whole dynamic force of the suc- 
tion centre becomes visible. 
A photograph of a vortex taken under water 
reveals the spiralling surface between the 
water and the air which is being sucked in. 
e 
The activity of thinking is essentially an ex- 
pression of flowing movement. Only when 
thinking dwells on a particular content, a 
| particular form, does it order itself accord- 
ingly and create an idea. Every idea — like 
every organic form — arises in a process of 
flow, until the movement congeals into a 
form. Therefore we speak of a capacity to 
think fluently when someone is skilfully able 
to carry out this creation of form in 
thought, harmoniously co-ordinating the 
Sensitive Chaos 
(The Creation of Flowing 
Forms in Water & Air) 
Theodor Schwenk. 1990; 232 pp. 
ISBN 0-85440-304-3 
$29.95 ($33.45 postpaid). 
Anthroposophic Press, RR 4, Box 94AI, 
Hudson, NY 12534; 518/851-2054 
stream of thoughts and progressing from 
one idea to another without digression — 
without creating “whirlpools.” 
e 
In a stream: The wave form remains at the 
same spot with new water constantly flow- 
ing through it. 
In the sea: The wave form wanders across 
the surface, the water itself remaining at 
the same place. 
Through wave movements, of whatever 
kind, water reveals its extremely impres- 
sionable nature. A stone in the stream, a 
gentle breeze blowing over the surface of a 
Trains of vortices arise if a solid object is drawn in a straight line through stationary liquid. 
lake, the slightest thing will cause the water 
to respond immediately with a rhythmical 
movement. Two things are necessary for 
this rhythmical movement to come about: 
the water itself and some other activating 
force. Thus water is like a sense organ, 
which becomes “aware” of the smallest im- 
pacts and immediately brings the contrast- 
ing forces to a moving rhythmical balance. 
e 
As the sounds of the external world enter, 
whole vortex trains pass through the fluid 
of the internal ear. In connection with this a 
sorting out of rhythms 
takes place, by which the 
long wave trains of the 
low frequency low notes 
Cadillac Desert 
Bioregion > 
reach the end of the basilar membrane, 
while the short, quick rhythms of the high 
notes fade away right at the start. Ona 
minute scale and as an organic function, this 
is the counterpart to the great sorting out 
process of the different types of waves in 
the oceans of the earth. 
see pg.6, 
The Tao te Ching 
From Bioregion to Local Community — 
GREAT 
BASIN 
The word river comes from rivalis, meaning rivals — 
and all over the West, humans are still throwing 
rocks at each other, from one bank to the other. As 
of choice at Wellton-Mohawk has been the construction of a 
reverse-osmosis desalination plant — ten times larger than 
any in the world — which, while consuming enough electricity 
they say in the Valley, water flows downhill except 
when it flows uphill — toward money. Cadillac 
Desert condenses squalls of data into the most 
comprehenisve tour of power magnates and 
megagallons. —PW 
George Gillette, chairman of the Fort Berthold Indian Tribe 
Business Council, weeps as he watches Secretary of the In- 
terior J.A. Krug sign a contract whereby the tribe sells 
155,000 acres of its reservation’s best land in North Da- 
kota to the government for the Garrison Dam and Reser- 
voir Project on May 20, 1948. Gillette said of the sale: “The 
to satisfy a city of forty thousand people, will treat the waste- 
water running out the drain canal. The legislation authorizing 
all of these works belongs in a class of Congressional sacred 
cows—whatever it costs to keep salinity levels down without 
retiring an acre of salt-ridden land is what Congress is willing 
to spend. The Yuma plant is now supposed to cost $293 mil- 
lion, a figure hardly anyone outside the Bureau believes. En- 
ergy costs could easily push the Yuma plant's cost to $1 bil- 
lion or more over fifty years. 
What Congress has chosen to do, in effect, is purify water at 
a cost exceeding $300 an acre-foot so that upriver irrigators 
can continue to grow surplus crops with federally subsidized 
water that costs them $3.50 an acre-foot. 
members of the Tribal Council sign the contract with heavy 
hearts. ... Right now, the future does not look good to 
us.” 
Cadillac Desert 
“ 
Marc Reisner. Penguin Books, 1993; 
The simplest and cheapest way to solve Mexico’s salinity 
crisis would have been for the U.S. government to buy out 
the Wellton-Mohawk farmers and retire their lands. Even 
today, a generous settlement probably would not cost 
more than a couple of hundred million dollars, and a tre- 
mendous source of salts would be removed. The solution 
582 pp. ISBN 0-14-017824-4 
$14 ($16 postpaid). Penguin USA/ 
Consumer Sales, 120 Woodbine 
Street, Bergenfield, NJ 07621; 
800/253-6476 
| 
Water in Environmental Planning 
The diamond text of clear 
_ watershed knowledge. 
Great vignettes. Important, 
at times difficult, aquatic 
math. Superlative chapter 
on floods. (I wish Luna 
Leopold's Water, the 
mathless paperback, was 
back in print.) —PW 
Water in 
| Environmental Planning 
Thomas Dunne & Luna Leopold. 1978; 
| 818 pp. ISBN 0-7167-0079-4 
| $51.95 ($54.95 postpaid). W.H. Freeman 
| 
and Co., 4419 W. 1980 S., Salt Lake City, 
UT 84104; 800/488-5233 
e 
On the evening of June 9, 1972, a group of thunderstorms over the Black Hills 
of South Dakota poured more than 10 inches of rain within 6 hours onto an 
area of 60 sq. mi. Rivers draining the steep valleys of the region rose quickly, 
and around midnight devastating floods swept through campgrounds in the val- 
ley bottom and through towns and villages situated where the rivers drain 
from the hills onto the Great Plains. The largest of these towns is Rapid City, 
situated on Rapid Creek. .. 
. 
Despite a warning broadcast by the mayor, most people stayed in their homes 
and were caught there when the flood hit 
the town. The river eventually rose |4 feet 
in about 4 hours, and 3.5 feet during one pe- 
riod of 15 minutes. Two hundred and thirty- 
seven people died in the flood, 3057 were 
injured, and the total cost of the damage was 
estimated by the Corps of Engineers to ex- 
ceed $160,000,000 of which less than 
fax 916/756-7188, 
Rivers of Empire (Water, Arid 
ford University Press. Is America 
$300,000 was insured. Five thousand auto- 
_—_|_Life in Moving Fluids (The Physical Biology of Flow): Steven Vogel. 1981, Princeton University Press. 
| 
If it wasn’t so math-heavy, this would be a top choice for this page. Vogel is the best scientific and writer 
mobiles and 1335 homes were destroyed, 
while 2820 homes suffered major damage. 
“naturalist” of sensitve chaos. 
Water Books Catalog: Free from AgAccess, PO Box 2008, Davis, CA 95617; phone 916/756-7177, 
agers of the waterworks? The invisible web of water and power revealed. 
Watershed > 
GREAT SALT LAKE 
DEPOSITIONAL 
BOTTOMLAND 
Local Community 
Orner Watery Resources 
ity, & the Growth of the American West): Donald Worster. 1992, Ox- 
a “hydraulic civilization” where power over people resides in the man- 
J 
