140 
THERE’S SO MUCH FREEDOM 
IW COMMUATTY! PEOPLE 
EXCEPT FoR 
SUITS , TIES, AND 
HIGH HEELS. 
Community 
INTENTIONAL COMMUNITY 
PROTESTANT, 
CATHOLIC , OR 
PEOPLE CAN BELIEVE 
AND PEOPLE CAN HAVE 
ANY RELIGION THEY WANT. 
ANYTHING IN THEIR ROOMS 
b 
THEY WANT. 
UNLESS IT'S 
EXCEPT FoR 
T.V.S , PORNOGRAPHY, 
MICROWAVES, DRuCS, 
AND AIR CONDITIONERS 
SOUNDS LIKE A GOOD 
SYSTEM, ARE THERE 
AVY DRAWBACKS ? 
their least divisible units (single parents, solitary elders) — could be 
the most elegant solution to a whole gang of problems: the 
affordable-housing shortage, the dispersal of kin groups, toxic fallout 
from the implosions of nuclear families, fear of growing old and dying 
alone, boredom, trying to make ends meetall by yourself, ghettoizing children 
needing real-time settings for mutual aid and personal growth. 
Lest you think that communes went the way of all sixties flesh, consider this: 
the number of intentional communities in the US is growing. While part of that 
growth may stem from necessity, it’s being fostered with hard-won intelli- 
gence and undiminished conviction by the newsletters and federations 
reviewed here. While some of this is novel, it’s mostly just the contemporary 
version of the way our species lived until about three thousand years ago. So 
while the capacity for intimate relationship with a clan-sized group may have 
gotten flabby in the last few millennia, the occasions for strengthening it are 
proliferating now. —Stephanie Mills 
The Federation of Egalitarian Communities 
Membership is re- 
stricted to secular 
communities that hold 
land, labor, income, 
and other resources in 
common and practice 
democratic decision- 
making. But you don’t 
have to be ad member 
to avail yourself of 
FEC’s “Systems and 
Structures Packet”: 
|,000 pages of 
by- 
laws, membership agreements, visitor 
and pet policies, property codes, eco- 
nomic and labor agreements, to use 
as models for your own. —MKS 
The Federation of Egalitarian 
Communities: Route 3, Box 6B2, 
Tecumseh, MO 65760; 417/679-4682. 
Tt \TIOs Vt 
IL 
Directory of Intentional Communities 
The communities movement's diversity 
is as impressive as its growth: commu- 
nities just hatched and communities 
still thriving after thirty years; egalitar- 
ian, authoritarian, secular, spiritual, 
urban and rural communities; com- 
munes with a sixties ethos and 
CoHousing associations of suit-and-tie 
professionals, 
The Fellowship for Intentional Com- 
munity offers information exchanges, 
conferences, publications, and other 
opportunities to support and learn 
from one another. 
In the fellowship's Directory, each 
of 500 North American communities 
speaks for itself, offering glimpses into 
its style and atmosphere along with 
basic data. The book also includes 
access information, comparative maps 
and charts of major features, 200+ 
resources, and articles addressing 
important considerations. 
This book is the very best resource if 
you're seeking a community, planning 
a “communities tour,” or looking for 
inspiration from a lively and diverse 
movement. —Michael K. Stone 
e 
The EcoVillage at Ithaca; CRESP, Anabel 
Taylor Hall; Cornell University; Ithaca, NY 
14853; (607)255-8276. 
Located in the beautiful rolling hills of New 
York's Finger Lakes Region, EcoVillage at 
Ithaca is actively seeking new resident 
members. 
Our goal is to build a replicable model 
of a cooperative, environmentally sensitive 
Directory of Intentional 
Communities 
1992; 328 pp. ISBN 0-9602714-2-7. New 
edition due fall, 1994, $19 postpaid, $21 
outside US, from F.I.C. Directory, Twin 
Oaks, Rt. 4, Box 169, Louisa, VA 23963 
community clustered in six neighborhoods 
of 25-30 attached houses each. The design 
provides for a pedestrian village surrounded 
by expansive gardens, orchards, woods, 
wetlands, ponds, and sustainable agricul- 
tural areas. Our plan incorporates energy- 
efficient, healthy housing with passive solar 
design features. Planning is underway for a 
biological waste treatment system that will 
also supplement village energy needs. 
EcoVillage has purchased 176 acres of land 
located |-1/2 miles from downtown Ithaca, 
and 3-1/2 miles from Cornell University 
and Ithaca College, with access to local 
services. Using the Cohousing model pio- 
neered in Denmark, twenty households 
have been meeting for a year to plan the 
first neighborhood. Each neighborhood will 
feature cooperative dining in a common 
house which may include a day care facility, 
recreation area, workshop, guest quarters, 
and laundry room. The first resident group 
plans to move in 1995. As a living laboratory 
and teaching center, EcoVillage will show- 
case systems that can be replicated nation- 
ally and internationally. We hope that you 
will join us. SASE requested. 7/27/93 
Communities Magazine 
This quarterly updates the Directory of 
Intentional Communities and offers 
pertinent news and a bulletin board 
for communities seeking members and 
vice versa. Articles discuss community 
experiences (good and bad) and 
mutual help. The idealistic tone is 
tempered by the writers’ willingness 
to speak frankly about failed efforts. 
Communities also addresses an 
audience beyond the communities 
movement. By now, that movement 
represents a series of long-term 
experiments in leadership styles, 
decisionmaking, and conflict resolu- 
tion. Those experiments’ results are 
tools any of us can apply to our 
own organizations, families, and 
workplaces. —MKS 
e 
Collectivization of life in general gradually 
eroded people’s personal motivation to do 
anything creative, unusual, risky, beautiful. 
In the early days it was not that way so 
much — many people did explore different 
kinds of artistic, musical and recreational 
activities, and there was a spirit of fun and 
excitement to the scene. But, over time, 
this faded. Though other things no doubt 
affected people’s morale as well, | believe 
that our communistic approach to life ef- 
fectively immobilized people. It was an in- 
teresting coincidence that, at about the 
same time that some of us at Kerista were 
becoming aware of, and uncomfortable 
about, this problem, the Soviet empire was 
crumbling and the world was getting a very 
clear understanding of the incompatibility of 
communism and personal motivation — 
and the social gains that derive from 
individual creativity. 
Communities Magazine 
Diana Leafe Christian, Managing Editor. 
$18/year (4 issues); sample issue $5. 
1118 Round Butte Drive, Fort Collins, 
CO 80524; 303/224-9080 
Growing Community 
This newsletter, for people thinking 
about starting new communities, is a 
model of concise, pertinent advice. Not 
much rhapsodizing about the joys of 
community living, just practical infor- 
mation and indispensable resources 
and coverage of issues you had better 
anticipate before launching your brave 
new community (the need for ad- 
equate lead time; legal, land use, and 
zoning questions; policies for adding or 
dismissing members; finances; work 
assignments). The wheels needed to 
keep a community moving have been 
repeatedly invented. You'll spend less 
time redesigning those wheels if you 
take these lessons to heart. —MKS 
e 
The most important decisions facing any 
community are about who should join it. 
Who the members are affects every single 
aspect of community life. (A rigorous ad- 
mission policy is highly correlated to com- 
munity stability, according to two studies.) 
Diggers and Dreamers: Information from 
Federation of Egalitarian Communities, c/o 
Redfield Community, Winslow, Buckingham- 
shire MK18 31Z, UK. This British version of The 
Directory of Intentional Communities is uneven, but 
useful for comparing British and North American 
communities. 
Experienced communitarians strongly ad- 
vise that unless there is a natural affinity 
with a prospective member, all the group 
processing in the world will not create 
harmony. The consciousness of potential 
members is considerably more important 
than, say, their highly desirable gardening or 
mechanical skill. Even one person who is 
regularly “off’ can disrupt the group and 
wear on everyone's patience. 
Communities should try to attract mem- 
bers with a strong sense of self-worth, ad- 
vised Virginia Satir, the late family therapist. 
She warned that members with low self-es- 
teem will constantly need the approval and 
support of other members, draining off en- 
ergy that is needed to build the community. 
As one Findhorn member says, “If a person 
looks like they’re going to take more en- 
ergy than they can give, you can’t afford it.” 
Gommunily 
nenboeng 
= T 
Growing 
nen 
BS) 
Growing Community 
Diana Leafe Christian, Editor. 
$21/year (4 issues); sample issue $3. 
1118 Round Butte Drive, Fort Collins, 
CO 80524; 303/490-1550 
