Family 
214 BEYOND OZZIE & HARRIET 
MOVED THREE THOUSAND MILES AWAY TO BE CLOSER TO MY FAMILY. 
—Paula Poundstone 
Despite its much-lamented meltdown of recent decades, the 
nuclear family is still the prevailing model — or so conventional 
wisdom would have us believe. But even if that is true (if it ever was 
true: see p. 207), a great many families, and family constellations, 
exist outside the orbit of the putatively typical home. The differently 
familied, as they would surely not want to be called, need no one 
else’s approval or consensus to thrive, but their situations can call 
for special resources or understanding within and without the 
home. The material on these pages help provide that. —Phil Catalfo 
In Praise of Single Parents 
More than 10 million American fami- 
lies are headed by one parent; this 
book is a love letter to them. It is also 
a distillation of what they've leamed 
from what they've had to endure, and 
therefore wise counsel to anyone fac- 
ing the same challenge. 
Shoshana Alexander interviewed | 50 
single parents, and their disconcertingly 
forthnght words form her book's back- 
bone, but her own trenchant observa- 
tions and gift for sifting golden insights 
from the river silt of expen'ence make 
this book especially valuable. Not a 
how-to, exactly, but a how-it-is. —PC 
e 
Buy Me Love 
Absolutely nothing has been harder in 
raising my child alone than finding good 
childcare so | can work. In fact, research in- 
dicates that “the overwhelming factor in 
determining whether working mothers are 
happy is daycare.” | would unconditionally 
amend that statement to read “good, reli- 
able, loving, nurturing daycare.” All of us 
carry our children to work whether we 
do so in a babyseat like Kirstin or in our 
hearts. Knowing that my son is well cared 
for and loved has made the entire differ- 
ence in how and sometimes even if | have 
worked. 
We have taken the need of children to be 
nurtured and tended twenty-four hours a 
day and coined a word that fits into the 
current economic thrust — “childcare.” 
Yet there is a dilemma built into the sys- 
tem. Childcare is marketed as a commod- 
ity, like gas for the car, which enables me 
to get to work. But it’s not. Childcare is a 
major issue of hearts and souls. I’m not 
looking to park my child so | can work in 
peace; I’m looking to buy him love. 
The Stepparent Challenge 
“Yours, mine and ours” is a perfect 
sitcom scenario, but the problems of 
blended families can be significant. 
Questions of discipline, new sibling 
relationships, parental authority, and 
finances loom large in any marriage, 
but they are particularly important to 
d family that combines children by 
former marmages. This straightforward, 
uncluttered book will help individuals 
realistically assess their chances for 
success within a blended family. Any- 
one already struggling with stepchil- 
dren will find this book helpful in 
explaining the dynamics that can pre- 
vent a remamiage from being success- 
ful, and outlining a course of action 
that will strengthen the commitment 
of both partners. —NAP 
In Praise of Single Parents 
Shoshana Alexander. 1994; 256 pp. 
ISBN 0-395-6699 
| 
-X 
$12.95 ($14.45 postpaid) from Houghton 
Mifflin Co./Order Dept., Wayside Road, 
Burlington, MA 01803; 800/225-3362 
e 
For some single parents, the childrearing 
years do pass without the partner so many 
once felt they couldn’t get along without. 
What once seemed so essential becomes 
“an illusion,” as Marina, a mother raising 
her son alone, calls it. “The hardest part of 
becoming a single parent was realizing that 
my conviction that | had to have a partner 
in order to be happy was a fallacy. | thought 
| needed a man around to make me com- 
plete. Now, raising my son, | get a different 
sense of myself and realize that no one can 
make me complete from the outside.” 
Our children teach us a great deal about 
how to love and relate. If, like Sophie, we 
can take the time when we are focusing on 
them as a time to heal our wounds, we may 
be able to invite a partner into a functioning 
family unit as a welcome expansion of our 
love rather than as a hoped-for solution to 
our problems. We can use the pressure of 
providing our children with stability as an 
incentive to look carefully before we leap 
and to deal with our own self-destructive 
patterns before we choose a mirror of our 
deficiencies in a partner. 
STEPHEN 
J 
ILLES. 
Se 
The Stepparent Challenge 
Stephen J. Williams. 1993; 125 pp. 
ISBN 0-942361-72-5 
$13.95 ($15.95 postpaid) from 
Mastermedia Limited, 17 East 89th Street, 
New York, NY 10128; 212/546-7649 
The complexities of stepfamilies — even in 
the best of circumstances — is a real chal- 
CBERABRBEERE 
RRARRKRRRA 
DBrSr BOOS BOIS BS 
SO 
NRO ONO 
ANANEERIORROREORR REORDER RAO 
RAKRSSSSSASSKBSRBRSERESH] 
Second Chances 
The wound of divorce is a deep one, 
and the tales of the families who 
shared their lives and thoughts with 
this researcher over a period of ten 
years makes excellent, sobering read- 
ing. A complex portrait emerges, from 
the crippling, often lifelong psychologi- 
cal effects of divorce to the successful 
remamiages and personal growth of 
some survivors. Because divorce entails 
both a breakup of what writer Pat 
Conroy called “a small civilization” and 
the subsequent search for a better life, 
it is a process that affects all family 
members and many friends. Anyone 
whose life has been touched by di- 
vorce, or who has contemplated end- 
ing a long-term relationship and won- 
dered about its effect on children, will 
want to read this book. —NAP 
e 
The experience of leaving home is different 
for boys in intact families. Over the years, 
the young man detaches gradually from his 
parents, moving back and forth from being 
a little boy to being an adult and back again, 
sometimes in any one day. His primary 
emotional investment fluctuates from home 
to school, from friends to parents, from 
past to future. With time he establishes an 
independent stance, a more detached rela- 
tionship with parents. This is part of normal 
adolescent development; it is in part what 
makes adolescence so maddening and in- 
comprehensible to parents, unless they can 
think back on their own adolescence for 
help in understanding. 
In a divorced family, adolescence is more 
complex and can be more painful. There is 
less opportunity to detach gradually from a 
relationship with a single parent, which is 
likely to be both more central and more 
encompassing than in intact families. Nor is 
it easy to be the son of a woman who is 
alone. The rising sexuality of the adolescent 
boy is very frightening to him, and he wants 
to get away from his mother; without his 
father present, he feels unprotected from 
his own impulses and fantasies. 
Cont 
rl 
=< 
N) 
iH 5 MILE ! 
Th BLAKESLEE 
SLL 
Second Chances 
(Men, Women, and Children 
a Decade After Divorce) 
Judith S. Wallerstein & Sandra Blakeslee. 
Ticknor & Fields, 1990; 368 pp. 
ISBN 0-899 19-949-6 
$10.95 ($12 postpaid) from Houghton 
Mifflin Co./Order Dept., Wayside Road, 
Burlington, MA 01803; 800/225-3362 
e 
People want to believe that divorce will 
relieve all their stresses — back we go to 
square one and begin our lives anew. But 
divorce does not wipe the slate clean. 
Some second chances come with three 
small children, a low-paying job, and the 
ghosts of the failed marriage. Some come 
with a sense of having been torn away 
from one’s children and not knowing how 
to reestablish a home. Some second 
chances begin with loneliness and a feeling 
of being unloved and unlovable. Some 
bring on acute problems that turn into 
chronic problems. A second chance at age 
forty-five is not equivalent to a second 
chance at age thirty-two. 
Other second chances bring new hope 
that better solutions are possible. Some 
come with a sense of courage that stems 
from having ended a demeaning relation- 
ship. Some allow people to pursue a more 
meaningful relationship with another per- 
son. Our second chances are not created 
equal. 
See also 
(| 
en Coming Apart (p. 179). 
oD ] _—= 
lenge to the newly married couple. Add in 
difficulties with finances, former spouses, 
juvenile personalities, and developmental 
disorders, and the challenge escalates. Add 
to the map the types of extremely intricate 
and potentially difficult situations described 
in this chapter, and your road ahead may 
seem truly unmaneuverable. 
Remember though, you do have options, 
and there is always help. These problems 
do not need to be, and probably cannot be, 
solved without professional help, so take 
advantage of the excellent counseling and 
intervention programs available in most cit- 
ies nationwide. Work hard and aggressively 
to solve any underlying problems and then 
to strengthen the marriage itself. No mat- 
ter how impossible the obstacles may 
seem, there is always hope. 
e 
Just when you thought it was safe to enjoy 
the marriage, one of the children may reap- 
pear at your doorstep. Natural parents 
aren't likely to turn their own children 
away. You may end up with a grown person 
living with you for an indeterminate time. 
What's more, he or she may bring home a 
package: his or her own children, girl- 
friends, boyfriends, a spouse, or who 
knows what other friend or relative. Think 
about the marital stress that can endure as 
you deal with these possibilities. 
