The Millennium Whole Earth Catalog 
ECOLOGICAL DESIGN 
OWiIWAINS 
12 
COC 
ens 
DESIGN 
NiiStesNe: 
The extraordinary meeting that triggered this birth announcement was 
marked by a unanimous, enthusiastic commitment to an effort that is 
urgently necessary and essentially right. I haven't felt this good about 
a work party since Stewart Brand and friends convened the Alloy 
conference in 1969. 
D ESIGN CONNECTS CULTURE AND NATURE 
through flows of energy and matter. If we take 
ecology as the basis for designing our products, build- 
ings, and communities, we can preserve natural capi- 
tal while meeting human needs. 
Anew vision of ecological design is emerging, one that 
brings together architects, planners, engineers, farm- 
ers, artists, and many others ina 
shared search for the 
nitty-gritty design details of a sustainable culture. 
Just as architecture has traditionally concerned itself 
with problems of structure and aesthetics, or as engi- 
neering with safety and efficiency, we need to con- 
sciously cultivate an ecologically sound form of design 
that is consonant with the long-term 
survival of all species. Ecological de- 
sign proposes a partnership with 
nature in which environmental im- 
pacts are minimized by carefully 
integrating designs within wider 
living systems. Examples include 
wastewater treatment systems 
that employ the inherent puri- 
fying capacities of artificial 
wetlands, industrial “ecosys- 
| 
tems” in which alf wastes 
become “food” for other 
processes, and agricultural 
ILLUSTRATIONS By 
Jim CHANNON 
PHOTOGRAPHY By 
Katy LANGSTAFF 
TATTER 
EN 
THAT 
CON NECT7 
Notes From 
An Invitational 
Conference at Esalen, 
Big Sur, California, 
October 16-19, 1994 
BY STUART COWAN 
This report marks the beginning of a 
regular Ecological Design feature 
in Whole Earth Review. People acting as designers manage the 
application of technology; the job needs to be done with more subtlety 
and understanding of consequences. WER has always attended this 
subject; now it’s a major focus for us. We welcome good news, opinions, 
and suggestions 
for articles. —]. Baldwin 
systems whose 
structures mimic wild ecosystems. 
Ecological design provides a coherent framework for 
redesigning our systems of energy, water, food, shel- 
ter, waste, and manufacturing. 
This conference was convened to find the next step. 
Ecological design offers a rich source of solutions and 
research directions, but its practitioners have lacked a 
common forum to share their ideas. 
The circle of introductory statements raised key themes. 
How should ecological design be taught, and what 
kind of jobs can trained students and professionals 
reasonably expect to hold? How can we garner institu- 
tional support for ecological design? How can 
we create new kinds of accounting, 
curricula, ecological enterprise, and 
interdisciplinary networks? As 
David Orr emphasized, “We need 
to drive the definition of ecologi- 
cal design to clarity.” There was 
a consensus that ecological 
designis notan “alternative” 
to the dominant forms of 
technology and design, 
but the best path for 
their necessary evolu- 
tion towards ecologi- 
cal viability. 
