(@oyaniaalelalvectareyars 
248 ALN | 
ete) 
— short for fanzine, which itself is a combination of fan (short for fanatic) and magazine — is 
a very-small-circulation publication, produced for love rather than money. The producers are voices in 
the cultural-political wilderness, ranting to audiences of tens or (maybe) hundreds. More than 10,000 zines 
are available today, each one published from motives as varied as their contents and outlook. 
Thanks to the increasingly affordable technology of self-publishing, paper-based zines have grown in variety and quality — 
necessarily so, since the paper medium must compete with electronically produced and 
distributed zines (ezines) for the increasingly valuable currency of readers’ attention. Access to 
the Net is not universal, while zines are accessible to anyone who can see. (Braille zines are 
surely being published, but we aren’t aware of any.) Given the number of collage, rubber-stamp 
and other nonverbal zines, even the illiterate can join the fun. On the other hand, an ezine can 
be distributed to hundreds of readers, and put on the Net where millions can peruse it, in less 
time than it takes for the average zine publisher to stuffa dozen envelopes, numb the tongue 
with stamps and trudge down to the mailbox. 
A ZINE doesn’t have to be, or look, cheap. Answer Me! is of very high quality (and free of 
typos!). The absence of advertising and the range of subject matter define it as a zine: serial 
killers, notorious suicides, pedophiles, Mexican deformity magazines, guns, Vietnamese gangs in Orange 
County, Iceberg Slim, David Duke, the Geto Boys, Anton LeVay, Reverend Al Sharpton —all the things 
that make the North American Free Trade Zone such an entertaining place to live. At the other end 
of the quality spectrum are the punk and personal zines that are handwritten and apparently copied 
ona 
liquor-store xerox. But in the realm of zines, what matters most is content — and sincerity 
and originality are far more important than those nebulous concepts called Truth and Facts. 
IN 
There’s a zine for everybody . . . almost. If you have an obscure interest, or an atypical take on 
a not-so-obscure interest, get a copy of Factsheet Five (or two, or even a subscription) and start 
looking. Somebody is probably publishing a zine about what you want to read. If not, then start your 
own — if you've got the key to the Unified Field Theory, or think you know all there is to know about Burt 
Lancaster movies, or want to communicate with other players of out-of-print German board games. 
rd 
Itis almost criminally simple to produce and distribute zines and ezines. Don’t rush out and buy the most bleeding- 
edge desktop-publishing “solution” on the market. Those of you blessed with a McTemp job probably have access 
to computers, printers, photocopiers, glue sticks, and highly ironic graphics (i.e., trade magazines). Go to lunch 
at 11:30; return at 12:15; take advantage of the lightly populated office to learn PageMaker. | got started in self- 
publishing with a typewriter retrieved from one dumpster and paper retrieved from another. The only crucial 
stylistic concern is that what you put on the paper will be legible after it is reproduced (or, for ezines, that your 
text format can be retrieved and understood by your target audience). 
The paper-zine process is simple: type it (or write it if your handwriting is up to the task), print it (if typed into a computer), lay 
out the text with appropriate graphics, photocopy it, send a copy to Factsheet Five and to other zines that review zines or those with 
whom you might be interested in trading publications, wait for the orders to come in, and fulfill them. 
The ezine process is similar (and | presume you are conversant with the esoteric hoodoo I’m about to spill; otherwise, skip this 
paragraph and/or make use of the computer resources elsewhere in this. section): type it; export or import the text into the desired 
format (e.g., vanilla ASCII text or sophisticated hypertext formats for. better graphics); upload the documents to your local Integnet ;
provider; send the files to popular sites for ftp retrieval (e.g., ftp.eff.org, etext.archive.umich.edu, quartz.rutgers.edu), www, WAIS or |
gopher retrieval; post the ezine to the Usenet news groups alt.etext and alt.zines; set up a mailing list for email distribution. Then inform 
John Labovitz (johni|@ora.com) of your ezine’s existence and how it can be obtained. John keeps the list of ezines available over 
the Internet, and his list is distributed worldwide. John also publishes the ultimate travel zine, Crash. 
IF YOU WANT to sample the vastness and variety of zine culture, you'll need a copy of Factsheet Five, a fat roll of stamps, 
= Supplement to Agonizer 24 
plenty of envelopes, a form letter that doesn’t look like a form letter (or one that is blatantly honest about beinga form letter) 
with your mailing address prominently and clearly displayed, patience, and a stack of $1 bills. Most zine publishers don’t have 
bank accounts in the name of the zine. The two or five dollars you send to someone will barely cover costs. Many zine 
publishers are a bit flaky, or they may have sold all of their issues by the time you send in your request. Patience: you might 
have to wait months for aresponse. If you chronically order zines dealing with extremist politics, drug relegalization, taboo 
sexual practices, or other subjects you might prefer not to broach in polite company, | strongly recommend investing 
ina PO box or third-party mail service. Youmay not want to know the publishers of some zines, nor to have the morality 
police checking up on you. Once you start sending out letters with dollar bills, your mail receptacle will soon be 
overflowing with strange and wonderful information. 
We at Factsheet Five don’t see all the zines that are published. We do see most of them. The zines you get are likely 
to have other zines listed in them; these will lead you to still more zines. Zines have been published since Benjamin 
Franklin’s Poor Richard’s Almanac; they are delicious and fascinating to some people, nausea- or fear-inducing to others. 
The same tired old disinfotainment that the Sony-Time-Warner-CBS-RCA-MCA-USIA conglomerate spoon-feeds 
us won't tell you how JFK's driver killed him with a shellfish-toxin bullet to prevent his spilling the beans about the 
alien presence on Earth, or review the new avant-garde punk bands in Osaka, or publish comics about what it’s like 
to be gay in Nebraska. We're overloaded with information, and the best defense is to produce some of our own. 
—Jerod Pore 
