Sustainability 
PLANT KNOWLEDGE 
Ethnobotanical Research Field Kit. ssessoxcony 
Tupperware-type containers. Will keep 
anything dry, Deep sandwich-sized ones 
are great. These snap-lid containers are 
rare, practical, and much-appreciated gifts 
to bestow upon helpers and hosts in hu- 
mid tropics. From variety stores, 
Strapping tape. The kind with reinforcing 
fibers in it. Very useful (and very hard to 
find outback) for parcel shipments, mend- 
ing, and as a rope substitute when rolled 
sideways into a “string.” From hardware 
stores. 
Superglue. Not only wonderful for quick 
mends of equipment, cyanoacrylate glues 
are also excellent for emergency micro- 
surgery. Sounds weird, but superglue will 
close up surface-dry wounds in spots noth- 
ing else can — like hair-coated injuries. 
Just squirt the glue in the wound liberally. It 
works like stitches, and is similar to prod- 
ucts now used in hospitals. Just the thing to 
use on tropical botfly stings (not uncom- 
mon; they lay disgusting larvae beneath 
the skin). Seal up their airhole with 
Superglue. From variety stores. 
Seed containers. Plastic film canisters are 
ideal, and often free. Paper envelopes for 
coin collectors work great too. Wedding- 
invitation envelopes work in a pinch. 
From stationery stores. 
Ziploc-type bags. Bring dozens of these; 
they're hard to find outback. Sandwich- 
and gallon-size are the most useful. From 
grocery stores. 
Moss. To ship live plants back, you need to 
wrap their bare roots with moisturizing and 
solution (household bleach is 3-4 percent). 
| carry compressed jiffy pots; one is enough 
for most of a day's work. Squeeze the moss 
as dry as possible. Let it or the charcoal 
surface dry for four to six hours as well — 
do this simultaneously when treating the 
seeds. Place a small amount in each bag (1 
tsp. per 30-50 seeds). This should hold 
them in good condition for two to four 
weeks. If a long time will elapse before 
planting, check occasionally to make sure 
the seeds are not too moist. 
Earlier this year, | sent two shipments of a 
fruiting palm seed (Zallaca zallaca, salak) to 
friends in Brasil. Salak has a notorious vi- 
ability: reported as 50 percent at 3 days, 0 
percent in one week. The first shipment ar- 
rived in 20 days with 100 percent germina- 
tion, the second 4 weeks later for a total of 
56 days with only one seed not germinating 
(95 percent). The salak seeds were treated 
and packed as described above. 
e 
Tiny seeds may be mailed in airmail letters. 
Small seeds should be placed into a series 
of small packets taped evenly on stiff paper 
and wrapped with enough padding to pre- 
vent crushing but still feel like a regular let- 
ter. One professional botanist mails seeds 
and even seedlings and cuttings perfectly 
packaged to seem like academic printed 
matter. Separate mailings like these back up 
the regular imported stock to ensure some 
specimens make it. —Rob Montgomery 
sterile moss — not soil. Using wild native 
moss is prohibited. Peat moss is elegantly 
convenient to carry in the form of Jiffy Pel- 
lets, those little disks that swell with water. 
One of these moistened with | percent 
bleach will coat many batches of perish- 
able seeds needing humidity in transit. Just 
toss into Ziploc bags. Sphagnum moss can 
be compacted easily for storage, and un- 
packed and moistened to wrap roots and 
other propagative parts, From garden 
stores. 
Superthrive. This is 
a brand-name prod- 
uct made of liquid 
B-vitarnins; it is real 
magic in reducing 
plant trauma and 
enhancing seed vi- 
ability. A tincture di- 
luted 50 drops per 
cup should be 
misted on entire 
plant, seeds, and 
any material in di- 
rect contact with 
them, From garden 
stores, 
Notebooks. The 
idea here is to as- 
sign an accession 
number for every 
specimen, and then 
enter whatever data 
you compile for that 
specimen in a note- 
book — locality, 
date, description, 
photo, etc. — under 
that number, which 
follows both the 
specimen and the 
data, whether or 
not the plant or seed is identified. Often, 
identification isn’t determined by a profes- 
sional until later on. Use convenient 
pocket-size notebooks on site, then trans- 
fer the data to a larger hardbound book 
while the notes are fresh. From stationery 
stores 
Labels. You need several sizes of adhesive 
office labels and strong manila tags with 
reinforced holes for plant and seed labels. 
From stationery stores. 
Waterproof pens. They need to be really 
waterproof. Try spilling coffee or dripping 
forehead sweat on a test label or page be- 
fore using on a trip. Also test to see if alco- 
hol dissolves it. From department or 
stationery stores. “Sharpie” finepoint is 
particularly recommended. 
Plant press. The classical, cumbersome 
wooden one is for the truly devoted. A very 
usable makeshift press can be whipped up 
using universally available newspapers. 
Fresh plants are inserted between doubled 
newspaper pages, with their accession 
number written right on the paper, then 
rolled up tightly like a carpet. Additional 
specimens are added and the roll gets 
larger. Store in a leakproof plastic bag and 
keep moist with alcohol. Later, unroll and 
dry the matenals using a herbarium press 
as soon as possible. Try borrowing one 
from the nearest university's botany de- 
partment; always donate duplicate speci- 
mens to them in return for the loan. 
Machete. With sheath and file. Shortest 
blade length is more portable. Bring along 
3/4" triangular file for sharpening. From 
hardware or camping stores. 
Serrated knife. Alternative to large ma- 
chete. Indispensable for cutting, sawing, 
chopping, and even digging. Best kind is 
the special curved Japanese gardener's 6" 
sickle, but any strong, broad-serrated knife 
will work. From garden and hardware 
stores. 
Fungicide. For seed shipments. Should be 
rated low in toxicity (on label) and be a 
dazzling color to impress quarantine in- 
spectors. Copper sulphate or sulphur prod- 
ucts are suitable. Common bleach is fine, 
too. Dilute Clorox in 3 parts water, dip 
seeds for 15 minutes, dry and toss into 
moss. Or use sodium hypochlorite tablets, 
which can also purify drinking water. From 
camping stores and garden stores. 
Alcohol. For pickling specimens, formalde- 
hyde works best, but it is very toxic. Use 
alcohol to help preserve plants before full 
drying. It is hard to imagine collecting 
plants somewhere that 70-percent distilled 
booze or moonshine cannot be found. Or 
you can use rubbing alcohol 
Strainer. Helpful to de-pulp seeds. Best for 
ease of 
hauling is an unbreakable 6" plas- 
tic sandbox toy or a 3" tea strainer with 
handle cut off. 
Flashlight.. Best type is waterproof 
MiniMag brand. Take extra batteries and 
bulb, which are hard to find. From camping 
stores 
Personal gear. Never, ever take camou- 
flage or army-surplus style clothing and 
gear such as a camouflaged compass or 
mess kit. You will be suspicious-looking 
enough and little details can be damning 
Trade items. Consider low-impact non- 
disposables that are hard to get — batter- 
ies, plastic containers, etc. Stainless-steel 
fishhooks are easy to carry and very much 
appreciated. Officials must be dealt with 
at every level from jungle checkpoints to 
immigration to traffic cops. The diplomatic 
exchange of the right gift can smooth 
small requests such as guarding extra 
gear, visa extension, or overlooking an in- 
fraction, but only if you're at ease with the 
procedure. Embossed-name, hometown 
police uniform buttons are good — prom- 
ise the local official you'll bring back theirs 
in trade. 
Optional Equipment 
Instant camera. Lets you see your shot and 
be sure it's good. Plant collectors’ features: 
close-up ability, time-release shutter for 
low-light forests. Bring lots of film and 
flashbulbs 
Map pipe. Precut a 3"-diameter ABS plas- 
tic pipe to fit a standard rolled-up map, 
and fit with a removable cap at each end. 
| 
It'll keep all your maps undamaged. From 
hardware stores. 
Altimeter. Useful when searching for plants 
with known elevation range. A pocket al- 
timeter (0-4500m range, 50m incre- 
ments), from good backpacking stores 
Hand lens. A Bausch & Lomb folding 
pocket lens with 20-power magnification is 
very rewarding, and works wonders on vir- 
| 
tually everything — fifteen minutes of 
marveling on one single, tiny vista will 
transmit semesters of esotenc wisdom 
From stationery or nature stores. 
Tape recorder. Try recording essential field | 
data in a rainforest (remember why they _ | 
call it that) and you can appreciate the 
luxury of voice-activated, pocket-size, mi- 
cro-cassette recorders. Just speak in your 
| 
collection number and every detail you 
wish. Transcribe later. From electronics 
stores, 
