Such attitudes greatly underestimate the genre. 
Self-help books are tools. They are tools that 
many take up when their own attempts to deal 
with psychological or physical problems don’t 
work. Or when the help of experts is less than 
helpful, or when it actually makes things worse. 
A self-help approach can be an excellent supple- 
ment to psychotherapy. Self-help embodies a 
deep and admirable aspect of the American tra- 
dition of self-reliance — a tradition that says you 
don’t necessarily need a mechanic to fix your 
car, a plumber to fix a leak, or a psychotherapist 
to solve a problem in living. (The Whole Earth 
Catalog itself is an example of that tradition.) 
circles, to describe a book as “self-help” is to dismiss it. Many people assume that all such 
books are superficial, overly simple, and overgeneralized. And many otherwise 
thoughtful professionals adopt a tone that implies that while these books might be use- 
ful for the less critical, an intelligent, reflective reader would not be interested. 
Like carpentry tools, some self-help books are 
finely crafted, some are badly made, and some, 
though not beautiful, will do the job for which 
they were designed. Even a book with glaring 
imperfections can be useful if it is written in 
terms that make sense to you. Reading about 
others who have suffered from similar difficul- 
ties, and realizing you are not the only one 
struggling with that problem, can provide great 
comfort. The best of these books can give readers 
a sense that they are on (or can get on) a path 
toward overcoming their problems — and can 
showhow to take the next step. 
—Lewis Engel 
What You Need to Know About Psychiatric Drugs 
Psychiatric drugs are both over- and 
underprescribed. Any licensed physi- 
cian can prescribe them, and they 
are often given out (particularly to 
women) when counseling or marital 
therapy would be a much better al- 
temative. On the other hand, many 
people, in and out of therapy, are not 
given medication even though they 
are suffering terribly — because of 
irrational fear of addiction or a puri- 
tanical conviction, by physicians and 
laypeople alike, that taking medicine 
is the easy way out. 
This excellent reference can help with 
both problems. 
The first half describes common psy- 
chological problems and gives guid- 
ance as to whether medication could 
be helpful. It also explains which drugs 
are used inappropriately, and why. 
The book's second half gives detailed 
listings of commonly prescribed psychi- 
atric drugs, presented in an easy-to- 
understand graphic format, including 
side effects and negative interactions 
with other drugs. 
If a doctor or therapist has recom- 
mended that you or someone close 
to you take a psychiatric drug, this 
| book is necessary reading. 
SSE 
What You Need 
to Know About 
Psychiatric Drugs 
Stuart Yudofsky, Robert 
E. Hales, & Tom Ferguson. Ballantine Books, 
1991; 672 pp. ISBN 0-345-37334-0 
$14 ($16 postpaid) from Random House/ 
Order Dept., 400 Hahn Road, Westminster, 
MD 21157; 800/733-3000 
e 
Questions to Ask Before 
Taking Any Psychiatric Drug 
* Exactly what is the psychological problem 
that you (or your family member or 
friend) are facing’? Is your problem a 
sign or a symptom of a medical illness 
or a primary psychiatric disorder? If it is 
a psychiatric disorder, what is the offi- 
cial American Psychiatric Association di- 
agnosis of your condition? 
* What are the most effective nondrug 
therapies for this condition? 
* Can a psychiatric prescription drug help 
to alleviate, manage, or solve this 
problem? 
* Can nondrug therapies be used instead 
of drug therapy? Can they be used as 
a supplement to drug therapy? 
* What are the positive (therapeutic) 
effects this drug may provide? 
* How likely is it that this drug actually 
will provide these effects? 
New Harbinger Publications: High-qual- 
ity, cognitively oriented self-help books and 
tapes. Catalog free. 5674 Shattuck Avenue, 
Oakland, CA 94609; 800/748-6273. 
Hidden Guilt: Lewis Engel & Tom 
Ferguson. 1991, Pocket Books, Simon & 
Schuster. A new approach to understanding 
how deeply ingrained childhood beliefs can 
lead to self-sabotage. Includes advice on how 
to tap into your own internal guidance for 
solving your psychological problems. 
Listening to Prozac 
The development of powerful new 
drugs with fewer side effects (Prozac 
being the best known) has enabled 
millions of patients to overcome 
longstanding problems that were 
unaffected by psychotherapy. 
These drugs don’t help everyone, 
but when they work, they help with 
an incredibly wide spectrum of prob- 
lems: acute, chronic, post-partum, and 
seasonal depression; anxiety, shyness, 
binge eating, anorexia, and panic at- 
tacks; obsessive-compulsive disorder, 
compulsive masturbation, stage fright, 
kleptomania, compulsion to gamble, 
and alcohol and drug addiction. 
Are all these very different problems 
actually just symptoms of the same 
biochemical imbalance? If it is a 
chemical problem, why do the writers 
in the field stress the importance of 
psychotherapy along with medicine? 
Listening to Prozac is the book to read 
if you want to think about the broad 
psychological, philosophical, anthropo- 
logical, and sociological issues raised 
by these potent new drugs. —LE 
e 
Within weeks of starting Prozac, Tess 
settled into a satisfying dating routine with 
men. She had missed out on dating in her 
teens and twenties. Now she reveled in the 
attention she received. She seemed even to 
enjoy the trial-and-error process of learn- 
ing contemporary courtship rituals, gauging 
norms for sexual involvement, weighing the 
import of men’s professed infatuation with 
her. 
TR Al IMA Nd 
RECOVERY 
J 
Re-Evaluation Counseling 
Discovering co-counseling was like 
being handed the keys to the immedi- 
ate, tangible political and emotional 
universe, It puts individual difficulties 
into a larger social context and pro- 
vides the best tools I've seen anywhere 
for overcoming them. In co-counseling 
Classes, people of all ages and back- 
grounds, in communities all over the 
US and in many other countries, learn 
to take turns listening to each other 
(instead of paying, say, a therapist) 
to liberate their intelligence from 
the ngidifying effects of early hurts 
through the physical release of feelings 
— crying, laughing, shaking, etc. 
As people think better, they are better 
able to act on their own behalf and 
against injustice. The basic theory and 
practice of co-counseling (known more 
formally as Re-Evaluation Counseling) 
extend themselves beautifully to the 
elimination of racism, sexism, class- 
ism — every lid on human flowering. 
—Ann Bartz 
For information on co-counseling contact: 
The Re-Evaluation Counseling Com- 
munities, 719 2nd Avenue N, Seattle, WA 
98109; 206/284-0311. 
Present Time (the Journal of Re-Evalua- 
tion Counseling): $1O/year (4 issues; sample 
copy $2.50). Rational Island Publishers, PO 
Box 2081/Main Office Station, Seattle, WA 
98111; 206/284-0311. 
Trauma and Recovery 
People who suffer trauma are often 
surprised by how long the effects 
last. They startle easily; they have 
nightmares and flashbacks; they 
may avoid anything — like sex, in 
the case of incest victims — that 
reminds them of the original wound. 
Faith in a benign universe has been 
ruptured, and so has a basic trust 
in the human community. Their 
suffering can be made worse by 
a society that stigmatizes and 
isolates victims. 
Judith Herman, a psychiatrist at 
Harvard, draws on the words and ex- 
periences of survivors of all sorts of 
trauma and places their wounds in a 
social context. She links the private di- 
sasters that befall women (like rape) 
with the more public wounds suffered 
by men in war. they create the same 
symptoms. 
The book's description of the psy- 
chological effects of trauma is reassur- 
ing to the trauma victim because it 
makes it clear that they are a uni- 
versal response to horror, not a sign 
Trauma and Recovery 
(The Aftermath of Violence — From 
Domestic Abuse to Political Terror) 
Judith L. Herman. Basic Books, 
1992; 276 pp. ISBN 0-465-08766-3 
$14 ($16.75 postpaid) from Harper- 
Collins Publishers/Direct Mail, PO Box 
588, Dunmore, PA 18512; 800/331-3761 
of individual insanity. | especially 
loved the last chapters on the 
three stages of recovery from post- 
traumatic stress disorder. The first 
step involves re-creating safety — 
getting out of the battering marriage, 
stopping the drug addiction or the 
crazy sexual relationships. Once 
things are stabilized, you can join 
a trauma-focused group and remem- 
ber, moum, and integrate; when you 
have opened to the pain, you can 
restore your damaged connections 
to the rest of the human community 
— leam to trust again, and learn 
things blocked for years by the isola- 
tion and distrust that trauma fosters. 
—Katy Butler 
