Sustainability 
RESTORATION 
Ook Sr ot Sen |) OO 
nS 
Sometimes we can'restore 
the 
physi- 
ology of 
an’ecosystem —its cycles of 
water and nutrients — but not its 
species. “Where whole mountains 
have been stripped by surface min- 
ing, the soil and much 
of the rock are 
gone. We can rehabilitate the land- 
scape, find and‘furnish nutrient-rich 
materials like sewage sludge, create a 
new soil, and then plant the recon- 
struction. (Startnow and you have 2 
million acres of stripped: earth to 
rehabilitate in the US alone.) This is 
more like postcollision plastic sur- 
gery than restoration: the land has a 
useful but completely different face. 
If some soil remains in place, we can 
reclaim it; often we can restore its 
ARE 
REPARABLE, 
physiol y with afew historical spe- 
soil is intact, we can truly restore a 
system’s original functions and spe- 
cies complex, by removing exotics, 
allowing natural disturbances to play 
their role, and replanting and rein- 
troducing close:genotypes. Restor- 
ing the buffalo commons of North 
America is one such’dream. 
All healers must decide: rehabilitate, 
reclaim, or restore? All healers must 
think in terms of decades and centu- 
ries. fyou start with uranium tailings 
and dream of a pifion-juniper future, 
you have joined the eco-saints. 
Remember to read St. Francis! 
God bless. —Peter Warshall 
a 
Helping Nature Heal 
The Restoration Nexus 
The “bulletin board” of environmental res- 
toration, Restoration & Management 
Notes features articles plus abstracts from 
small publications and conferences. The 
best professional publication is Restoration 
Ecology. Both are from the best organiza- 
tion going: the Society for Ecological Resto- 
ration and Management. Join it! — there 
are local chapters. This is where the phi- 
losophy and politics of restoration are get- 
ting thrashed out. —Richard Nilsen 
e 
Ecological restoration is not only the reha- 
bilitation of the environment, it is a celebra- 
tion of a new relationship with nature, and 
can be regarded as in some sense a new 
genre of ritual. We are already seeing this 
with events like the Land Institute's Prairie 
Festival in Kansas, Native Seeds/SEARCH’s 
native plant festivals, and the burnings of 
grasslands here in the Midwest. For many 
people these activities have become excit- 
ing community events. These events show 
how restoration can become the occasion 
for fostering and expressing a new con- 
sciousness of ourselves as participating 
members of the land community. 
e 
We carry out restoration in six steps: 
scarification, stabilization, filling, planting 
and seeding, site protection, and monitor- 
ing. 
.. 
. Continued trampling of bareground 
sites has resulted in severely compacted 
soil on many social trails. Our first step on 
these sites is to scarify or loosen the soil to 
enhance root penetration and water perco- 
lation. Although all our work is labor-inten- 
sive, this step is perhaps the most tedious 
and least enjoyable. Each site is scarified to 
a depth of 10-15 cm with a pulaski (a single- 
bit ax with an adz-shaped hoe extending 
from the back, commonly used to dig fire 
lines) or shovel and then individual soil 
clods are broken up by hand. In areas that 
have lost more than five cm of soil, the 
crew then installs wood or rock silt bars, 
placing them within the impact and below 
the ground surface to reduce erosion. 
e 
Instant results make us look good fast, 
which is particularly tempting when we are 
dealing with clients, agencies, donors, and 
legislators. The temptation to maintain sys- 
tems in a near-constant condition by high- 
frequency, low-intensity manipulations is 
often difficult to resist. Such micromanage- 
ment efforts may produce a result that con- 
tinually looks like the desired “snapshot,” 
but that involves labor-intensive and costly 
means that may bear little relation to natu- 
ral ecosystem-maintenance mechanisms. 
Again, the question of appearance rather 
than function arises. 
estoration Ss 
Restate Notes 
Restoration & Management Notes 
|; 
$30/year (2 issues) 
Restoration Ecology 
$53/year (4 issues) 
Both $64/year. Society for Ecological 
Restoration/University of Wisconsin 
Arboretum, 1207 Seminole Highway, 
Madison, WI 53711; 608/262-9547. 
What may be preferable is a more patient, 
longer-term management program in which 
disturbances are rotated around through 
different areas within a landscape, so that 
any given area is disturbed less frequently 
but more severely than is now common- 
place in restoration projects. This would 
require us to tolerate periods when 
portions of an area may be in an earlier 
successional stage than a particular snap- 
shot depicted. —R&MN 
Other Publications 
on Restoration 
American Midland Naturalist: 
$75/year 
(4 issues). University of Notre Dame, 
Notre Dame, IN 46556. One of the best 
experimental-science journals available to 
the restoration community. It's not overly 
laden with technical jargon and unruly sta- 
tistics. Worth having as a subscriber or 
through a college library. 
Natural Areas Journal: Don Leopold, Edi- 
tor. $25/year (4 issues). |08 Fox Street, 
Mukwonago, WI 53149. Reports from 
natural areas about rare-species manage- 
ment and monitoring as part of 
overall 
ecosystem management. Well written, 
good biblios on recent restoration issues, 
Park Science: 4150 Southwest Fairhaven 
Drive, Corvallis, OR 97333. This newsletter 
has a solid commitment to scientific and 
restoration activities. 
Environmental Conservation Journal: 
$197lyear (4 issues). Elsevier Science 
Publishing Co., 655 6th Avenue, New York, 
NY 10010; 212/989-5800, fax 212/633- 
3990, The only journal that covers the whole 
Earth. Dedicated to counteracting enviro de- 
terioration. Scan it for restoration articles, 
It's a humane collection of vignettes 
on the (totally interdependent) resto- 
ration of mind, body, soul, and Earth 
by Whole Earth’s wise man, Richard 
Nilsen. Theory and practice, at home, 
with love. —PW 
e 
Restoration work is not fixing beautiful ma- 
chinery — replacing stolen parts, adding 
fresh lubricants, cobbling and welding and 
rewiring. It is accepting an abandoned re- 
sponsibility. It is a humble and often joyful 
mending of biological ties, with a hope, 
clearly recognized, that working from this 
foundation we might, too, begin to mend 
human society. 
e 
Along the northern coast of California, 
salmon fishing has been a major source of 
protein and income as long as humans have 
lived here. By the late 1970s, the combina- 
tion of growing fleet and dwindling salmon 
runs had many fishermen casting about for 
a new occupation. But the number of small 
one- and two-person trollers kept growing, 
and among the new members of the fleet 
were younger fishermen who were to be- 
come leaders in an exercise in conscious- 
ness-raising for the industry. In a very short 
time, these notoriously independent opera- 
An crodoetion we bs 
Environ nmvental Restonati 
Helping Nature Heal 
(An Introduction to 
Environmental Restoration) 
Richard Nilsen, Editor. 1991; 152 pp. 
ISBN 0-89815-425-1 
$14.95 ($18.45 postpaid). Ten Speed Press, 
PO Box 7123, Berkeley, CA 94707; 
800/841-2665 
tors were to learn a new and reciprocal re- 
lationship to the resource which would al- 
low them to continue in business. 
Nat Bingham convinced commercial salmon 
fisherman to tax themselves in support of 
stream-repair projects that have helped to 
restore the salmon and preserve the liveli- 
hood of the fishermen. 
e 
So how do we go about repairing what has 
already been mucked up? For many of us, 
the first step is to slow down enough to 
observe that natural processes already at 
work, and to realize that restoration goes 
on for more than just our lifetime. It is 
both a big process and very discrete, and it 
begins with our actions in specific places. 
Fire, key to the restoration of many ecosystems, dramatizes the need to conceive restoration 
goals in cinematographic rather than photographic terms. Shown here: prescribed burning of 
coastal heathland in Massachusetts. —R&MN 
Bioscience: $52/year (membership in- 
cludes || issues). American Institute for 
Biological Sciences, 730 | | th Street NW, 
Washington, DC 20001; 202/628-1500. 
Pretty technical; scan for genetics and 
biodiversity. 
Biological Conservation: $830/year (| 2 is- 
sues). Elsevier Science Publishing Co, 655 
6th Avenue, New York, NY 10010; 
212/989-5800, fax 212/633-3990, 
Watershed Protection Techniques: Center 
for Watershed Protection, |020 Elden 
Street, Suite 205, Herndon, VA 22076; 
703/709-0040. 
Land and Water: $/ 4.4O/year (6 issues). 
PO Box | 197, Fort Dodge, IA 50501; 
515/576-3191, fax 515/576-2606. 
Heavy civil engineering, exotic grasses, This 
is the arena for change. Viable alternatives 
to heavy-handed water- and earthworks 
are the future. Many good tools are adver- 
tised: BioLogs, Grasscrete, Geotextile. 
—PW [Suggested by Dave Egan] 
Otner Great Resources 
Environmental Restoration (Science and 
Strategies for Restoring the Earth): John Berger, 
Editor. 1990, Island Press. The best collection 
of technical papers on the widest range of 
topics; the path-restorer publication, 
Restoration Ecology (A Synthetic Approach 
to Ecological Research): William R. Jordan, 
Michael E. Gilpin & John D. Aber. 1990, 
Cambridge University Press. The embryological 
theoretics of intentionally altering a piece of 
the Earth to emulate the structure and function 
of a historic ecosystem. 
