102 
Sustainability 
PLANT KNOWLEDGE 
Ethnobotany and 
Vanishing Knowledge 
Before Western medical research paid attention to a folk tradition 
and extracted quinine from the bark of cinchona trees, many people 
died needlessly from malaria. Perhaps similar words will be said 
about cancer someday — unless that cancer cure is never discovered 
because the tropical tree that produced it became extinct yesterday 
or the last shaman who knew how to use it died this morning. 
A catastrophic loss of knowledge is taking place as the old-growth 
environments — ancient living laboratories for biopharmaceutical 
evolution — die out. Plant medicines for the body, mind, and soul are 
becoming extinct as their host environments are destroyed. And the 
people who know how to use the healing plants, the heirs to empiri- 
cally based, highly pragmatic traditions thousands of years old, are 
dying too, without leaving successors. 
It took tens of millions of years for medicinal plant compounds 
to evolve, tens of thousands of years for people to learn how to use 
them, and both the plants and the knowledge might be gone within 
twenty years. Gathering such knowledge in the first place must have 
been a painstaking and hazardous process for early generations of 
experimental shamans, requiring remarkable bravery as well as iron- 
clad devotion to the experimental method in order to sift through the 
abundant variety of plants, many of them fatally toxic, to find the 
ones with specifically useful effects. 
The shaman’s knowledge was a cultural library for the tribal group. 
Each shaman learned, applied, and passed along knowledge of botany 
and bonesetting, hunting lore and agronomy, pharmacy and story- 
telling, spiritual and social wisdom vital to the welfare of the tribe, 
knowledge related not only to healing but to warfare, to relocating 
the village or settling family disputes, or any of the critical decisions 
that maintain the life of the culture in relationship to its environ- 
ment. The plant teachers were used for guidance and decision 
making and to remain in balance with the natural world. 
In the past, when Western medical researchers paid attention to 
this knowledge, the payoff was spectacular: “folk medicines” such 
as digitoxin and digoxin (heart failure), ergotamine (migraine), salicin 
(inflammation and pain), morphine (pain), vin-caleukoblastine and 
vincristine (Hodgkin’s disease and childhood leukemia), and more 
than one hundred other antibiotics, anti-tumor agents, immune- 
system stimulants, tranquilizers, sedatives, anaesthetics, 
contraceptives, laxatives, and pain relievers. 
According to the World Health Organization, approximately 70 
percent of the world’s population relies on the use of plant extracts 
within the context of “traditional medicine” as their primary source 
of health care. At the same time, American consumers paid more 
than $8 billion in 1985 for prescriptions whose active constituents 
were extracted from plants. 
Networks of determined amateurs are working to save a remnant 
of the old-growth environments, the old knowledge, and the cultures 
who hold the keys to that knowledge, before it all goes up in smoke 
or smothers in concrete. Ethnobotanical preservation and cultural 
survival are two allied responses to connected crises. There have 
been successes. Plants have been rescued from extinction; the role 
of plant knowledge in pharmaceutical medicine is becoming more 
widely known; the cultures and individuals who hold the knowledge 
have found allies and resources in their struggles. 
Plants have powers. And humans must approach plants humbly, if 
those powers are to be used wisely. Every plant-using culture under- 
stands these principles. Yet, to people who have been taught that the 
universe is a lifeless machine, the powers of life-forms are nothing 
more than superstitious beliefs. 
The plants have much to teach us. They are asking for our help. 
Here’s what you need to know, the tools you need to assemble, the 
tasks that need to be done, the communities of colleagues who need 
your help. Every action, every thought is a seed. Every small ethno- 
botanical victory today is a gift to future generations. —HLR 
N.R. Farnsworth, 1988. “Screening Plants for 
New Medicines,” National Forum on Biodiversity, 
E.O. Wilson and F.M. Peters, eds., Washington, 
D.C.: National Academy Press. 
Kamainja on the Suriname-Brazil 
border drips Go-lo-be fungus sap 
into an aching ear. 
—The Shaman’s Apprentice (p. 104). 
Botanical Preservation Corps: Training in Field Ethnobotany 
aving as much as possible of 
the remaining traditional cul- 
tures and their habitats is an 
urgent task, and an enormous 
one. Governments and well-funded in- 
ternational organizations must be in- 
volved in much of this work. Saving 
the plants themselves is a task in 
which dedicated, well-trained ama- 
teurs can make headway. But you 
have to know what you are doing. 
Small networks of collectors are help- 
ing to ensure the survival of ethnobo- 
tanical resources native to Asia, Africa, 
Central and South America. Dedicated 
travelers, botanists, anthropologists, 
and ecologists can learn how to help 
locate seeds and specimens, how to 
prepare and ship them, and how to 
collect indigenous folk medicines 
for identification. 
If you are interested in participating 
in ethnobotanical rescue training ses- 
sions (emphasizing, but not limited to, 
psychoactive plants), send a self-ad- 
dressed, stamped envelope to Botani- 
cal Preservation Corps, PO Box 1368, 
Sebastopol, CA 95473. 
Ethnobotany is traditionally a field in 
which amateurs have made significant 
contributions. We have a small win- 
dow for action. Let’s take the opportu- 
nity. Many people, each doing a small 
part, can accomplish great deeds. Our 
grandchildren will thank us for it. 
—HLR 
Preparing seeds for shipment 
Gather pulpy or fleshy fruits when very 
ripe, preferably groundfalls which are 
slightly fermented but not yet decompos- 
ing. Larger fruits can be mashed in a bucket 
of water, left to ferment a couple days, 
then rubbed well to separate the good 
seeds, which sink. Hard-fleshed berries are 
trickier. | managed to easily de-pulp a large 
batch of Heliconia once in Ecuador by rot- 
ting the small, freshly picked fruits in a 
sealed plastic bag. Several days later, the 
slimy pulp was rubbed off by transferring 
them into a burlap sack and treading it un- 
derfoot on a flat rock along a stream. 
e 
Many tropical seeds perish upon drying. 
Care must be taken to preserve a degree 
of moisture after cleaning and treating 
them. Even so, many such seeds have a very 
short viable life, so | try to use the time 
Spent in transit to maintain maximum 
viability and in some cases to even 
germinate during shipping. 
Surface-dry the seeds in shade from four to 
six hours. Place them in a plastic bag with 
fine holes. Soak some peat moss or fine 
charcoal in | percent sodium hypochlorite 
