Community 
PRIVACY 
me 
136 
by Robert Luhn 
ORTS AND PAMPHLETS 
If an Agent Knocks 
This bargain pamphlet is the ultimate how- 
to privacy guide. A simple question-and- 
answer format shows what to do if a fed- 
eral agent tries to question you, the scoop 
on agencies that gather political intelli- 
gence, how the feds infiltrate political orga- 
nizations, and much more. 
More Privacy Tools 
In English and Spanish.. 
How to Use Freedom of Information 
Statutes 
This informative guide shows you how to 
use the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) 
and California Public Records Act to gain 
access to files maintained on you by the 
government. You leam what's open and 
what's exempt, and how to make a re- 
quest (sample letters are included); rel- 
evant addresses and copies of the two 
acts in question are included. 
Your Right to Privacy 
This special Congressional Quarterly report 
is an excellent introduction to personal and 
workplace privacy, with a summary of fed- 
eral privacy laws, a table detailing privacy 
laws by state, and tips on how to protect 
yourself. 
Privacy Law in the United States: 
Failing to Make the Grade 
This 32-page report by the US Privacy 
Council and Computer Professionals for So- 
cial Responsibility (CPSR) spotlights huge 
gaps in American pnivacy laws and lax en- 
forcement by federal agencies, and argues 
persuasively for the creation of a national 
data-protection board. Somewhat techni- 
cal, but a good source. 
tc Privacy International 
Like Amnesty Intemational, Privacy Interna- 
tional is a global organization dedicated to 
fostering human rights — in this case, pri- 
vacy rights. PI's first task is to sound the 
alarm over privacy abuses around the world 
and to push for the adoption of practices 
that “guard against malicious or dangerous 
use of technology.” PI raises awareness 
about privacy assaults and repressive sur- 
veillance practices, coordinates privacy ad- 
vocates internationally and, like Amnesty 
Intemational, monitors and reports abuses 
country by country. Members also receive 
the International Privacy Bulletin, a quar- 
terly newsletter with privacy reports from 
around the world, legislative updates, and 
news on related civil liberties issues. 
LETTERS AND JOURNALS 
Privacy Journal 
This indispensable eight-page monthly di- 
gest covers key privacy stories, legislation, 
abuses, and trends in the US and abroad, 
with a particular focus on computerized in- 
formation and telecommunications. Publisher 
and gadfly Robert Ellis Smith has been 
putting out PJ for nearly twenty years, fre- 
quently testifies before Congress on privacy 
legislation, and is a constant thorn in the 
side of credit bureaus. This accessible guide 
will inspire you to get mad. PJ also pub- 
lishes useful reference books and studies. 
Privacy Times 
This biweekly ten-page newsletter is more 
L 
oS 
HOW TO USE 
by Simson Garfinkel 
5 
to any voice that speaks a name and Social Security number. 
Someone who knows your Social Security number can effec- 
tively invade your privacy or make your life very difficult. 
USINESSES IN THIS CO 
S 
ing Social Security numbers forid 
proof of identity. Banks, credit-card 
To make matters worse, information that is wrong or mislead- 
ing is often repeated, reinforced and sold from vendor to ven- 
dor. Even if the original mistake is tracked down and cor- 
rected, it can be nearly impossible to find all the copies — and 
to persuade the new “owners” of the information to change 
their records. 
What You Can Do 
For starters, you don’t have to give your Social Security num- 
ber to everybody who asks you for it. Although certain gov- 
ernment agencies are empowered by law to demand your 
SSN, they are required to state the specific law that grants 
them that power when they ask you for your number. Private 
businesses may ask you for your SSN but they cannot legally 
compel you to provide the number (although, as the Social Se- 
curity Administration says, private firms are not required to 
do business with you, either). 
Although an employer needs to know your Social Security 
number in order to pay you, you should be suspicious of em- 
ployers who ask your SSN before you have started working 
for them. (It should be noted, however, that credit reporting 
companies are increasingly marketing their services to em- 
ployers for pre-employment screening.) 
Here are a few simple steps that most people can take to pro- 
tect their privacy and limit their risk of fraud and harassment: 
1. Keep your Social Security number off your driver's li- 
cense if possible. Several states give you no choice about 
this. In the other states and Puerto Rico, however, the SSN is 
either optional or does not appear — although some of these 
other states will happily use your SSN as your driver's license 
number if you provide it. 
2. Request a statement of your earnings from the Social Se- 
curity Administration every three years. Misfiled or mis- 
reported earnings can be corrected up to three years, three 
months and fifteen days after a mistake is made, saving you 
lots of trouble at retirement. Furthermore, an earnings state- 
ment tells you if someone else is reporting earnings under 
your SSN. 
To get your statement, you need to fill out a “Request For 
Earnings and Benefit Estimate Statement” card which can be 
news-oriented and more timely than Privacy 
Journal, with in-depth coverage of such 
topics as why the Bush administration tried 
to shut down the FOIA office, and summa- 
nes of recent court rulings affecting privacy. 
O AND VIDEO 
BoP ee 
The Privacy Project 
This engaging thirteen-part series, originally 
law enforcement problems, Gary Marx on 
computer surveillance, the FBI on phone 
tapping, and more. 
If an Agent Knocks 
$1 postpaid. Center for Constitutional 
Rights, 666 Broadway, New York, NY 
10012; 212/614-6464. 
How to Use Freedom of 
Information Statutes 
$12 postpaid. Freedom of Information 
ECURITY NUMBER 
cted for credit, an apartment, a job or insur- 
@ of a credit report, get a copy of that report. If 
valid information on it, correct it. 
If you have been denied credit within the last thirty days, the 
credit reporting agency is obligated under the Fair Credit Re- 
porting Act (FCRA) to provide you with a copy of your credit 
report for free. The report will include the names of all busi- 
nesses that have asked for your report within the past two 
years and the reason they gave for looking at your file. 
Two of the largest consumer reporting agencies are TRW 
(which acquired Chilton) and Equifax (formerly Credit Bu- 
reau, Inc., or CBI). Their addresses are: 
TRW: PO Box 5450, Orange, CA 92667, 714/991-5100. 
Equifax: 5500 Peachtree Dunwoody, Suite 600, Atlanta, 
GA 30358; 404/252-1134. 
If you disagree with anything in your report, the credit bureau 
is required to reinvestigate the facts in dispute. If there is still 
disagreement after the bureau reinvestigates, you have the 
right to insert a statement in your report with your version of 
the story. 
4. Be cagey with your Social Security number. While some 
people, like banks and employers, have a legitimate reason to 
know your SSN, many other businesses that ask for it haven't. 
Agencies that collect blood often ask for SSNs from donors, al- 
though blood is almost always accepted even if the SSN is not 
provided. Since blood in this country is screened for HIV and 
other diseases, the possibility exists that the SSNs of pints that 
test positive (either rightly or due to false positives) may turn 
up in databases, either legitimate or clandestine ones. 
“Many police departments sponsor burglary-prevention pro- 
grams by which citizens may label their belongings. Virtually 
all police departments advise citizens to use their Social Secu- 
rity numbers as identifiers, even though house burglars are 
precisely the persons one would not want to have one’s SSN,” 
writes Robert Smith in the Privacy Journal's Report on the Col- 
lection and Use of Social Security Numbers. 
5. Request that companies not use your SSN for account 
numbers. When asked for your SSN, leave the request 
blank, if possible. When my health-insurance company as- 
signed me my SSN as my account number, I asked them to 
change it, and they did. Every organization that uses a differ- 
ent number to keep track of you makes it that much harder for 
somebody else to use those numbers to gain access to your 
files or otherwise complicate your life. 
Privacy International 
$50/year (membership). CPSR, 666 
Pennsylvania Avenue SE, Washington, 
DC 20003. 
Privacy Journal 
$109/year (12 issues) (call for individual 
discount rates). PO Box 28577, Provi- 
dence, RI 02908; 401/274-7861. 
Privacy Times 
$250 ($225 prepaid)/year (24 issues). 
produced for Western Public Radio, is now 
available on cassette. The half-hour epi- 
sodes combine humor, hard-nosed advice, 
and interviews with privacy experts, An ex- 
cellent introduction to privacy issues. The 
company also sells audio tapes of recent 
Computers, Freedom & Privacy conferences. 
The Complete Video Library of 
Computers, Freedom & Privacy 
This video collection from vanous CFP con- 
ferences features legal, computer, privacy, 
and ethics experts debating key privacy is- 
sues. See Laurence Tribe on “The Constitu- 
tion in Cyberspace,” the Secret Service on 
Project, 102 Banks Street, San Francisco, 
CA 94110. 
Your Right to Privacy 
January 20, 1989 Editorial Research Report. 
$7 postpaid. Congressional Quarterly Inc., 
1414 22nd Street NW, Washington, DC 
20037; 202/822-1439. 
Privacy Law in the United 
States: Failing to Make the 
Grade 
US Privacy Council and Computer Profes- 
sionals for Social Responsibility. 
$10 post- 
paid. Computer Professionals for Social Re- 
sponsibility, PO Box 717, Palo Alto, CA 
94301; 415/322-3778. 
Privacy Times, PO Box 21501, Wash- 
ington, DC 20009; 202/829-3660. 
The Privacy Project 
|3-part Western Public Radio Series. 
$1 |/tape; $75 for all 13. Pacifica Radio 
Archive, 3729 Cahuenga Blvd., North 
Hollywood, CA 91604; 
800/735-0230. 
The Complete Video Library 
of Computers, Freedom & 
Privacy 
$55/tape; $385-$480 for complete set. 
Freedom & Privacy Video Project, PO 
Box 912, Topanga, CA 90290; 
800/235-4922. 
