BAD RELATIONSHIP IS A LOT OF WORK — avoiding the person, feeling terrible about yourself, thinking up 
excuses 
not to make amends. Whites 
in general in the United States have had just such a 
relationship with people of color since before the nation was founded, and it’s damaging all of us. 
It takes less energy in the long run to set the relationship right. The work begins one on one. 
When you make just one friend who is different from you, you feel easier about every other person in that group. When 
you become interested in a people — in their culture, their history, the ways they have been oppressed — because you 
are interested in your friend, you become an ally bound by love. You use the passion and insight you gain as solid ground 
on which 
to challenge 
not only institutionalized 
racism 
(such as the way the death penalty 
is 
currently enforced), but also the smaller, constant insults of everyday racism. 
Expect this to be difficult. Budget yourself a lot of mistakes. It is not simple to make, much less preserve, a real, peer 
friendship with someone you may have been brought up to live apart from, to look down on, to fear. You may be looking 
across class as well as race barriers to find people of color to be friends with —at the man bussing your dishes, the woman 
taking care of your neighbor’s kids. Things will get uncomfortable. But holding on when you want to give up will be one 
of the greatest challenges you can make to racism. 
Don’t forget to stay close to other white people as you do this. You may find yourself wanting to distance yourself, 
believing that they are the problem, not you. But all of us in the U.S. have been steeped in racism our entire lives. We 
live in a society that economically benefits some members while exploiting the majority. This system perpetuates itself 
only by separating people through many, many divisions along lines of sex, age, class, race, sexual orientation, physical 
ability — systematically mistreating some and “rewarding” others. Everybody gets hurt. 
To be divided from other human beings is a painful thing. But nobody asked for this. That doesn’t mean that nobody ever 
did anything wrong — only that good people (which is everyone) were taught to hate and fear. Often we learned these 
lessons at the knee of people we loved and respected — or had them pounded into us, or humiliated into us. (You stood 
up against it until you couldn’t anymore.) We can undo the damage by getting good information to counteract the junk, 
examining the emotional glue that holds the misinformation in place, and building alliances wherever we can. Making 
friends with people who are different from us is a truly subversive act. —Ann Bartz 
In the United States, where hardly 
anybody in the middle class and so in 
the larger media context in which we 
live talks realistically about racism, 
classism, and other imbalances of 
power, it is a relief to come across 
people who will. 
When we talk about “community,” or 
“peace,” or “social justice,” we are 
most practically talking about elimi- 
nating just these barriers between hu- 
man beings. Where the National Coa- 
ition Building Institute succeeds is first 
in realizing that that’s possible, and 
second in recognizing the emotional 
component that travels hand in hand 
with the misinformation of prejudice. 
NCBI trains anybody who wants to 
leam to be a leader in building alli- 
ances among people of different 
races, sexes, Classes, ages, religions, 
sexual orientations, or physical abili- 
ties. Trainees look at their own group 
National Coalition Building Institute 
issues and then work together in local 
teams in the workplace or community. 
They've been all over the world since 
1984, and have already had an im- 
pact on governments, schools, unions, 
and police departments. —AB 
e 
In 1988 NCBI trained a critical team of 
leaders who work in Catholic/Protestant 
reconciliation in Northern Ireland. Since 
then, over 100 Catholic and Protestant 
leaders have formed an NCBI chapter, 
housed at the University of Ulster in Derry, 
to lead NCBI programs throughout North- 
ern Ireland. * In 1988 and again in 1989, the 
Department of Education of the University 
of Port Elizabeth in South Africa invited 
NCBI to train a racially diverse team of 
educators, who have begun to train teams 
of White and Black young people using 
NCBI models. * In 1992, NCBI led the first 
workshop of its kind in N.Y.C. between 
Chinese and Tibetan leaders. * Several hun- 
dred elementary school children in a dozen 
public school systems have been success- 
- 
National Coalition 
Building Institute 
Information from 1825 K St. NW, 
Suite 715, Washington, DC 20006; 
202/785-9400, Fax: 202/785-3385 
fully trained by NCBI to be preju- 
dice reduction leaders in their 
schools. The children are trained to 
settle playground disputes, take coa- 
lition building principles into their 
classrooms and homes, and lead 
other children in prejudice reduc- 
tion exercises. —NCBI literature 
Internalized Racism 
Messages of inferiority and devalua- 
tion from an oppressive society find 
their mark in the hearts of people 
of color who come to devalue them- 
selves and each other. Internalized 
racism is at the root of black-on-black 
crime, any feeling that lighter skin and 
straighter hair are somehow more 
beautiful, Asian people surgically 
altering the epicanthal folds above 
their eyes, and alcoholism among 
Native Americans, to name but a 
few manifestations. —AB 
e 
Distress patterns, created by oppression 
and racism from the outside, have been 
played out in the only two places it has 
seemed “safe” to do so. First, upon mem- 
bers of our own group — particularly upon 
those over whom we have some degree of 
power or control, our children. Second, 
upon ourselves through all manner of self- 
invalidation, self-doubt, isolation, fear, 
feelings of powerlessness and despair. 
As part of our liberation work, we know 
that we must seek out and direct the at- 
tention of ourselves and the world to the 
strength, intelligence, greatness, power 
and success of our people and our culture. 
INTERNALIZE » 
pacisM 
& 
Internalized Racism 
Suzanne Lipsky. Rational Island Publishers, 
1987; 17 pp. $1.00 from Rational Island 
Publishers, Box 2081, Main Office Station, 
Seattle, WA 98111 
Cultural Etiquette 
Many white people don’t have any 
idea that something they're doing is 
coming across as racist to a person of | 
color. This book and your own good 
thinking will help you avoid unaware 
racism. —AB 
e 
Dreadlocks, locks, dreads, natty dreads, 
etc., is an ancient traditional way that Afri- 
can people sometimes wear their hair. It is 
not braided, it is “locked.” Locking is the 
natural tendency of African hair to knit and 
bond to itself. It locks by itself, we don’t 
have to do anything to it to make it lock. It 
is permanent, once locked, it cannot come 
undone. It gets washed just as regularly as 
anyone else’s hair. No, you may not touch 
it, don’t ask. 
| 
Cultural Etiquette 
(A Guide for the Well Intentioned) 
Amosa Three Rivers. 1991; 28 pp. 
$5 postpaid from Market Wimmin, Box 28, 
Indian Valley, VA 24105 
Community 
ELIMINATING RACISM 
SIMPLE THINGS You Can Do 
TO ELIMINATE RACISM 
|. 
Attend an event where you 
are a minority. 
2. 
Look into the eyes of a person 
of another color and SMILE. 
3. 
Join your affirmative action 
committee at work. 
4. 
Read books and magazines by 
and about people of color. 
5. 
Attend festivals where the cultures | 
of people of color are featured. 
6. 
Speak up when you hear a 
racist remark. 
7. 
Listen to music from another 
culture. Share it with others. 
8. 
Watch films and TV programs 
by and about people of color. 
9. 
Write a letter to an editor or 
political leader about your views. 
10. Take time to reflect on your own 
biases and stereotypes. Accept 
responsibility for your prejudices 
and behavior. 
11. Read a newspaper or magazine 
written by people of color. 
Subscribe. 
12. Listen to the evening news as 
if you had a different skin color. 
13. Participate in ongoing training 
and workshops that focus on 
eliminating racism. 
14. Ask your librarian for the histories 
of people of color. Relate these 
histories to your own. 
15. Support businesses and organiza- 
tions that support people of color. 
Reprinted with permission from the 
Women Against Racism group of The 
Counseling Center, Milwaukee, WI. 
Race (How Blacks and Whites Think and 
Feel About the American Obsession): 
| 
Studs Terkel. 1992. Anchor Press, Bantam 
Doubleday Dell. 
| Rational Island Publishers publishes a host of 
| great resources for whites and people of 
color, including journals on the liberation of 
| 
Asians and Asian Americans, Latinos/as, Afri- 
| can Americans, Arabs and Arab Americans, 
Native Americans, the working class, the 
middle class, the owning class, parents, 
young people, men, women, teachers, and 
people with disabilities. Box 2081, Main 
Office Station, Seattle, WA 98111, 
| for a list and prices. 
125 
