_ Dad. Art Kleiner 
Livelihood 
312 RETIREMENT 
“LOVE YA, MOM. LOVE YA, DAD” 
Helping Your Aging Parents Plan for the Day They'll Need You 
by James M. Boswell 
UPPOSE THAT YOU ARE AN ADULT CHILD, with aging 
parents who live thousands of miles away. You talk by 
phone frequently, but always avoid the difficult topics of 
aging and paying for retirement. One day, you get a phone 
call from a neighbor. “Your Mom [or Dad] needs help. How 
soon can you get here? Who can pay the bills while she’s ill?” The words 
you always said in phone calls— “love ya, Mom, love ya, Dad” —won’t 
be enough today. You drop everything and fly back, only to find 
yourself engulfed by a crisis, 
with none of the support net- 
works and services that you 
have cultivated. Worse still, 
because of illness or resent- 
ment, your parents can’t eas- 
ily tell you what they want. 
: 
(In another era, you might 
; 
stones te calf ablihing = 
have spent many hours on 
ee alled Uove ve Moms: Love Ya, 
the porch, discussing the fu- 
ture with them.) The end re- 
sult: you set up a long, de- 
generating existence for 
them ina nursing home, paid for by hastily selling off their possessions, 
with both parent and child eventually confiding (but not to each other) 
that death would have been preferable. 
These suggestions and resources can help you avoid that scenario. 
¢ Early on, begin to ask your parents about their financial affairs: 
“Mom, Dad, do you have enough money to live in the style you want, 
both in the short and long term?” If the answer is “probably not,” then 
selling their personal and real property will probably become a vehicle 
for financing their final years with dignity. This may be a difficult, 
embarrassing conversation for both of you, but it is necessary to avoid 
tragedy later. 
For the details of estate planning, the best overall resource guide is How 
to Settle an Estate by C. K. Plotnick, Esq. and S. R. Leimberg (Consumer 
Reports, 1991). Or see True Wealth (p.305). A great tool for helping your 
aging parents record and understand their assets is 
an IBM-compatible program called Getting It All 
Together (published by WWDB Radio; 800/833- 
WWDB). NOLO Press publishes a similar program, 
called NOLO’s Personal RecordKeeper, for IBMs and 
Macs. 
e Your parents should choose a manager of their 
affairs — both an executor of their wills, and someone 
trusted enough to be granted power of attorney while 
they are alive. This person needs the right to buy 
services in their name, sell their property, pay their 
debts, and use the money in their bank accounts if 
they become incapacitated. If you take on this role 
yourself, take the power of attorney document to a 
title insurance company and ask them to guarantee its 
legality. Otherwise, it may not be valid for real estate 
transactions. 
If your parents want to set up a trust to transfer property and valuables 
to their children while they’re alive, you should peruse Plan Your Estate 
with A Living Trust by Denis Clifford (Nolo Press, 1992). You can find 
sample power-of-attorney forms in Who Will Handle Your Finances If You 
Can't? by Denis Clifford and Mary Randolph (Nolo Press, 1992); 
however, I emphatically recommend that you have your POA docu- 
ment overseen by a lawyer from your parents’ home state. 
¢ Beware the temptation to take part of your inheritance long before 
your parents pass away. When Mom and Dad run out of money, the 
children who have borrowed money or taken assets often conveniently 
forget this debt to their parents. You can avoid this by calculating, with 
your parents, their financial needs, and making sure enough property 
or money is set aside. 
¢ Even once you've decided to sell your parents’ property, it won't be 
easy for them to let go of special antiques and collectibles. To make this 
process bearable, remind each other that “nothing is forever.” Your 
family may need to have a special ceremony to honor the items being 
liquidated, including recording the stories and memories represented 
in the material things. Make it a celebration, not an early funeral. 
¢ Inconducting the sale, avoid antique dealers; their purpose is to buy 
cheap 
and 
sell high. Real 
estat 
k 
Ry 
' 
p 
= 
igh. 
Rea es ate brokers can 
vwVv r 
involve you in a lengthy selling process. Your 
~ 
. 
best bet is to hire a licensed real estate and 
personal property auctioneer (a member of the 
National Auctioneers Association and Certified 
Auctioneers Institute). As commissioned 
agents, auctioneers derive their fee from a per- 
centage of sales. The more they make for their 
client, the more they make for themselves. They 
can appraise the value of the property (without 
The author in his role as 
one of the resources he 
describes: a locally based 
auctioneer. 
conflict of interest), and tell you how to maintain 
it to get a good resale price. Choose local auc- 
tioneers; they have a vested interest in doing a 
superb job in their own hometown. 
Ortner Great Resources 
A Primer on Personal Money 
Management for Midlife and Older 
Women: Wanda Fullner. 1992, Ameri- 
can Association of Retired Persons. 
An easy-to-read ninety-page booklet full 
of clear advice. Particularly valuable for 
the recently divorced or widowed 
woman. —AK 
Beat the Nursing Home Trap 
(Choosing and Financing Long- 
Term Care): Joseph Matthews. 1993, 
Nolo Press. 
Everything an elderly person (or elderly 
person’s adult child) needs to think 
about, such as choosing between at- 
home care and elder residences, ben- 
efits, insurance, estate planning and 
conservatorships. —AK 
Vanguard Retirement Planner: 
MS-DOS, Non-Windows. $15 ($17.50 
postpaid) from Vanguard Group, PO Box | 1004, Des Moines, IA 50336; 800/876-1840. 
Enter the relevant information, such as how much you will need each year of retirement, your assump- 
tions about the rate of inflation, your returns on investments, and so on. This program then creates for 
you charts and tables specifying how to meet your goals. —Paul Hoffman 
