) 
orks, What D : 
least effective. Most “dear friends” do not type- 
set their notes to one another. 
3. Candidate statements included with 
ballot materials. There is a word limit to 
these optional statements; they are written by 
the candidates (that is, they have broad latitude 
in, uh, “accuracy”}, and their printing costs are 
shared among those candidates who choose to 
have such statements distributed as part of the 
official ballot materials. 
These are the statements that most voters read, 
and they are given the greatest credence by vot- 
ers — in spite of the fact that they are candi- 
dates’ “un-refereed” propaganda. This is some- 
thing an outside activist can’t do, except 
possibly in the “for” and “against” statements 
for a ballot initiative. It’s something over 
which outsiders have no control, but I include 
it in this list because of its importance. If your 
candidate is thinking of not including a ballot- 
packet statement, find another candidate. 
4. Directly distributed materials — 
letters, brochures, leaflets. These are usually 
distributed by direct mail, but they can also be 
distributed by hand, door to door. If you want 
to influence an issue or a candidates’ campaign, 
you can do a lot without opening an office and 
a bank account. Simply write and distribute 
your own note, letter, leaflet, newsletter 
or tabloid. 
Cover your neighborhood (“My family and I 
live nearby and feel this is so important that we 
have hand-delivered this to you . 
. 
. “). Distrib- 
ute your publication to your business clients, 
if you dare. 
In warm months, hand them to drivers at 
stoplights and bank drive-up queues. If it is a 
sufficiently sincere and effectively written 
item, you might risk putting it on automobile 
windshields (the risk is that recipients’ irrita- 
tion with the leaflet will act against your 
cause). I used to paper Silicon Valley with 
“windshield editions” of the Silicon Gulch 
Gazette and received no complaints, to my 
absolute amazement. 
5. Television advertising can be powerful, 
but only for creating emotional bias — for and 
against. And it isn’t within reach of average- 
income folks. Enough said? 
6. Radio advertising runs a distant sixth, 
and is often considered almost useless except 
for costly drive-time ads. Paid radio advertising 
is not feasible for citizen activists. Call-ins to 
talk shows, however, can be really valuable. 
7. Signs and posters are unanimously con- 
sidered to be almost completely useless except 
for encouraging the candidate’s volunteer cam- 
paign workers — who want to see them and 
want to display them. Ditto for lapel buttons. 
Junk! If you do put up political posters, it is far 
wiser to pay a political poster company to do it 
than to waste limited volunteer resource time. 
Political Tools 
EFFECTIVE CITIZEN ACTION 
® Something with an individual’s re- 
turn address, or from a group of named 
individuals, is a lot more effective 
than something from “the campaign 
to elect...” (but follow campaigning 
regulations). 
[Effective Flyers and Direct Distribution lean 
® Create brochures that espouse your cause in the 
form of a small set of key points that can be read at a 
glance (for example: “Eshoo Opposed Affordable 
Housing: ‘There’s not a problem; don’t fix it!’”). An- 
other example that WER might use: “The articles in 
most magazines satisfy advertisers. The articles in 
WER satisfy readers.” By the time somebody reads 
® The biggest problem with handouts 
and direct mail is getting the residents 
to open the envelope. So eliminate the 
envelope. Print on a 14-inch piece of 
paper; fold it twice. Don’t staple it. 
Use paper stock heavy enough to meet 
postal requirements for a self-mailer. 
consideration. 
® Increase circulation of flyers by 
printing the reminder “please post and 
circulate” near the top of the docu- 
ment. 
trations. 
® Turn the labeling, bundling and 
sorting over to a professional mailing 
house. Do not waste volunteers’ time 
on bulk mailings. 
the headlines to determine whether or not they are 
interested in your document, they've read the state- 
ments you want them to read. 
After each main point, briefly justify it or detail it, for 
those who give it more serious — or suspicious — 
® Don’t commit the most common sin of amateur 
desktop publishers. Keep it typographically simple. 
Don’t use too many typefaces, too much boldface or 
italics or underline, too many fancy borders or illus- 
® Make sure that everything you say is accurate. No- 
body trusts political advertising. Make sure nobody 
can catch you in a lie. Give the reader information 
about how to verify your statements. 
we see so much negative campaigning is because the 
pros know it works. The same holds true for avoid- 
ing making commitments. That sucks. All of us 
hate it — a lot of the politicians that do it hate it — 
i but it works. 
ad 
T’S A BITTER PILL TO SWALLOW, but the reason 
One of my supporters, a successful pro of twenty years’ 
experience, once told me, “Look, you have to realize that 
when you take positions on ten issues and somebody 
likes nine of them but opposes the tenth, they will vote 
against you because they've found something to dislike.” 
That’s why professional politicians simply don’t make 
any commitments about anything except God, mother, 
and apple pie. Then the only thing remaining for them to 
say is to criticize their opponents. 
Negative campaigning can be legitimate. Back to County 
Supervisor Atherton Anna Eshoo. She spends most of her 
time running for office, any office. When she ran for U.S. 
Representative, after years of screwing the county residents 
she was supposed to represent, I publicized her record — and 
believe me, it was negative, but legitimate, campaigning. 
Just before the election, I made up a flyer. It was a 14-inch 
sheet of heavy-stock paper, had nothing but type on it — 
no pictures, no graphics, no color, no stars and stripes. It 
was folded and folded again into approximately letter size. 
The return address said “Jim Warren and Neighbors.” The 
area to the left of the address label said: “We’re from all 
political parties and we're totally fed up! We're paying for 
this from our own, personal pockets. No party politics, no 
PACs, no outside special interests, no ‘business contribu- 
tions’ — and no more patience!” That probably overcame 
the biggest single problem of direct-mail promotions — 
getting people to glance beyond the return address. 
After the address fold, there was a series of boldface head- 
lines, each followed by a brief explanatory paragraph. One 
headline said, “Eshoo Opposed Housing for Single Parents 
and Small Families.” Another said, “Eshoo Overran 
County's Budget Limits,” followed by “Budget Balancing? 
Eshoo Didn't Do It!” 
ve Campaigning Can Be D ne: 
Another said “Eshoo Dodged 
Ocean Dumping Problems,” and 
still another said, “Eshoo Opposed 
Coastal Preservation Initiative.” 
Each following paragraph detailed 
the headline’s justification and 
how anyone could verify it. 
At the end — very important — I 
listed the names and addresses of 
those supporting the flyer. No po- 
liticos; just fed-up neighbors. 
It was a negative campaign, but it 
was completely justified. Eshoo 
had been campaigning as pro-envi- 
ronment, pro-housing, a single 
mother, and fiscally responsible. 
We simply publicized her actual 
public record that exposed the hy- 
pocrisy, and gave the means for 
verifying her statements and votes. 
Her opponent won — by a tiny 
margin. 
