336 
Nomadics 
HOMESTAYS ABROAD 
Sanaa Abroad 
This bimonthly magazine for “leaming, 
living, and working overseas” aims to 
“provide active travelers of all ages 
with practical, usable information on 
economical, purposeful international 
travel opportunities — travel that 
involves leaming by living, studying, 
working, or vacationing alongside the 
people of the host country.” Each is- 
sue is packed with information that's 
useful for anyone looking for an inter- 
national experience of greater depth 
than the typical vacation. Transitions 
Abroad also publishes an annual inter- 
national resource guide and an educa- 
tional travel directory, as well as a few 
dozen specialized guides such as 
Spanish Language Schools In Central 
America, Teaching Overseas, and 
Responsible Travel In Asia. 
—Richie Unterberger 
With unemployment in France at 25 per- 
cent for recent university graduates, more 
and more people are performing under- 
ground. The Paris metro often resembles 
an international circus, with mimes, musi- 
cians, and puppeteers vying for the public’s 
attention. 
Transit authorities issue free licenses to 
buskers, allowing them to stand at certain 
spots and entertain the passersby. The only 
stipulation: Do not beg or play too close to 
the tender ears of metro personnel. It’s 
against the law to perform on the trains, 
but many do. Most buskers spend their 
days riding back and forth, adroitly staying 
one station ahead of the metro police. 
Diane began busking when her husband was 
finishing a graduate degree and they ran out 
of money to pay the rent. The couple has 
made up to $50 to $75 an hour. Through 
connections made underground, Diane and 
her husband found work as entertainers for 
The Vacation Home Exchange and Hospitality Guide 
This guide lists various kinds of home 
exchanges, mostly international. There 
are also chapters on hospitality ex- 
changes (i.e., reciprocal visits vs. strict 
exchanges), as well as bed-and-break- 
fast exchanges and extended 
homestays. The descriptions of the 
programs are basic, evaluated accord- 
ing to their strengths and weaknesses; 
plenty are listed, with fees and (when 
available) percentages of American/ 
foreign users. —RU 
e 
Friends in France does not accept hosts 
who are interested merely in renting out a 
room or in a bed-and-breakfast operation. 
Only those hosts who have a genuine de- 
sire to know their guests and offer them 
hospitality are enlisted. All facilities are vis- 
ited on an average of once a year and most 
have a wonderful track record according to 
the directors. 
The homestays offer a variety of flexibility. 
Meals are optional, as is the amount of time 
spent with the host family. Hosted tours 
and driving services are often available. Lin- 
ens and fresh towels are provided, but you 
will be expected to straighten your own 
quarters and take care of laundry. Children 
are welcome and if you wish to practice 
The Vacation Home Exchange 
and Hospitality Guide 
John Kimbrough.1991; ISBN 0-9628199-0-5 
$14.95 ($16.95 postpaid) from Kimco 
Communications, 4242 West Dayton 
Fresno, CA 93722; 209/275-0893 
your French, host families will refrain from 
speaking English. 
The host homes do not want to be used as 
bed-and-breakfast stops by transients nor 
as boarding houses by permanent guests. 
Asa 
result a minimum stay of 3 nights and 
a maximum stay of two weeks in any one 
family is imposed. Many clients choose to 
visit more than one family, and some guests 
have visited as many as eight families on a 
trip. Whatever you wish, the club will be 
happy to work with you. 
NSITIONS 
~* 
ro 
Transitions Abroad 
(The Guide to Learning, 
Living, and Working Overseas) 
$18/year (6 issues) from Transitions Abroad 
Publishing/Dept. TRA, Box 3000, Denville, 
Nj 07834; 800/562-1973 
Harvesting olives in Crete. 
a catering company. They also recently re- 
corded a demo after performing unawares 
for the owner of a Parisian studio on one 
of the trains. 
Diane has never been fined by the metro 
police. In fact, some of the controllers have 
even contributed money in appreciation of 
her act. The transit system itself provides 
its own brand of entertainment: Since 1977, 
it has sponsored concerts, plays, and even 
chess tournaments at certain stations as 
part of a public service program aimed at 
humanizing the metro. 
Servas 
U.S. Servas Committee: Membership 
$55/year.11 John Street, Room 407, 
New York, NY 10038; 212/267-0252. 
If you're sincerely interested in meeting 
local people as you travel the world, or 
if you'd like to host foreign visitors, an 
intemational organization exists that 
facilitates short stays in people's 
homes in over ninety countries. 
Called Servas, its primary goal is to 
promote world peace by bringing 
people of diverse cultures, races and 
backgrounds together in homes 
throughout the world. A visitor typically 
stays for two days, although one may 
be invited to stay longer. 
While the rules vary from country to 
country, in the US one can join Servas 
(Esperanto for “we serve”) in order to 
stay in other people's homes without 
being required to host visitors. The 
annual membership fee for travelers 
is $55, with a refundable deposit of 
$25 for lists of hosts; there is no fee 
for children under eighteen traveling 
with a parent. Servas requests that 
hosts contribute $25 per year. 
While there is no charge for lodging, 
the organization is interested in travel- 
ers looking for more than just a free 
place to stay. (Travelers should not 
depend on having continuous access 
to hosts.) What is important, says 
Work Your Way Around The World 
The most thorough regularly published 
guide to work opportunities abroad; it 
is strongest on Europe, but also covers 
North America, Australia, Asia, Africa, 
and Latin America. After a general 
overview of work strategies and the 
professions (hotels, couriers, English 
teachers) most commonly available 
to travelers and nonresidents, it details 
specific organizations, employers, work 
permits, and available resources in 
dozens of countries. Frequent anec- 
dotes by worker/travelers in such 
occupations as grape picker and ski 
instructor add a human dimension to 
the overwhelming number of options 
presented here. Griffith has also writ- 
ten a similarly exhaustive book de- 
voted solely to Teaching English 
Abroad. —RU 
e 
Most English teachers in Czechoslovakia 
agree that the situation in state schools is 
generally better than in private schools. 
Recruitment of untrained teachers for 
state schools takes place through the Stu- 
dents for Czechoslovakia section of the 
Academic Information Agency (AIA) in 
both the Czech and Slovak capitals. This 
is how the American Natalia de Cuba 
found her job after falling in love with 
Prague on a European motorcycling trip 
and deciding to stay: 
Ortner Great 
Work/Stupy/Homestay 
Resources 
The International Directory of Voluntary 
Work: David Woodworth.|993; Peterson's 
Guides. 
International Workcamp Directory: 
$10/year (membership, directory and news- 
letter), Volunteers for Peace, Tiffany Road, 
Belmont, VT 05730. 
Pasporto Servo. A free service which connects 
Esperanto speakers with hosts in 72 countries. 
Esperanto League for North America. PO Box 
1129, El Cerrito CA 94530; 800/828-5944. 
American International Homestays, Inc.: 
PO Box 7178, Boulder, CO 80306; 
800/876-2048. Organizes moderately priced 
homestays for American travelers in the former 
Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. 
Servas's Jenny V. Batterson, is that the 
visits become meaningful through in- 
volvement in the household. Servas 
strives to foster “understanding be- 
tween people ... through the person- 
to-person sharing of ideas, questions, 
interests and concerns.” 
Membership requires an interview and 
references. The United States Servas 
Committee approves about 2,000 
travelers and a similar number of 
hosts annually. 
Servas was founded in Denmark in 
1948 by an American conscientious 
objector and a group of his friends, to 
enable young people to “learn the 
ways of peace.” Servas is affiliated 
with the United Nations as a non- 
governmental organization. 
—Arthur P. Glickman 
