| and Thou 
You can read I and Thou in two hours 
and not get over it for the rest of your 
life. Buber tells you how you stand, ei- 
ther in a dialogical relationship with 
the Creative Force or in a position of 
“havingness” where you are a thing 
bounded by other things. —Ken Kesey 
A discovery more prime than Einstein's 
Relativity is Buber's distinction be- 
tween the “experience” of I-It and the 
“relation” of |-You. It can cure the twin 
pathologies of Transcendent God and 
Controllable Nature. In “I-You” is the 
possibility of love that does not pos- 
sess, ds well as the realest perception 
of learning, which is coevolution. Mar- 
tin Buber's original German torrent is 
well served by the translation and 
prologue by Walter Kaufmann. —SB 
| and Thou 
Martin Buber. Charles Scribner's Sons, 
1984; 137 pp. ISBN 0-684-18254-8 
$5.95 postpaid from Macmillan Publishing 
Co., 100 Front Street, Riverside, NJ 08075; 
800/257-5755 
The center of the universe, the most 
compelling force in human existence, 
is the possibility of relationship. Buber 
is a spiritual magnet who pulls your 
wandering, compulsively ignoring at- 
Miss Manners’ Guide to the Turn-of-the-Millennium 
Judith Martin, who winks at us from 
behind her mock-Victorian persona of 
Miss Manners, is a shrewd social phi- 
losopher who uses her readers’ 
questions as a launching pad for es- 
says on a thousand aspects of modern 
human relationships. She peers 
through her lorgnette at everything 
from bridal showers to sexual harass- 
ment, pulls apart ceremonies and 
rituals to expose the underlying atti- 
tudes and symbolism, explains old 
rules of behavior, and provides new 
rules when the old ones won't do. Yes, 
she'll tell you which fork to use (and 
ask you to stop worrying so much 
about it, too), but she'd much rather 
be dishing out advice on how to cope 
with an increasingly rude world without 
resorting to rudeness oneself. Ms. 
Martin knows it isn’t enough to be po- 
lite if you can’t defend yourself against 
those who take advantage of your po- 
liteness; and so she offers techniques 
for dealing with nosy questions, for 
keeping your job out of your personal 
life (and vice versa), even for insulting 
someone when necessary, all with im- 
peccable manners. In her hands, 
etiquette is no longer a ladder for so- 
cial climbers or a bludgeon for snobs; 
it's a tool for transforming ourselves 
and our society into something nobler, 
by bringing the ideals of mutual re- 
spect, dignity, and equality back into 
our everyday lives through the way we 
treat each other. And Ms. Martin is 
one of the wittiest writers of our time; 
this may be the only etiquette book 
you'll ever stay up all night to read. 
This book is the third fat volume 
of letters and essays collected from 
Martin's syndicated column. Less 
well known but well worth seeking 
out is her slim Common Courtesy 
(Atheneum Books). Ms. Martin here 
sets aside her Miss Manners mask 
(but not, fortunately, her brilliant wit) 
and gives us a mind-opening essay on 
the role of etiquette in a democratic 
society. —Scott Marley 
e 
Dear Miss Manners: 
Occasionally, my husband's best friend 
drops by (no notice) with his young girl- 
friend, who repeatedly announces that 
she’s hungry. What is the proper re- 
sponse in order to avoid feeding her? 
Gentle Reader: 
There is no reason on earth that you 
should make a connection between a 
visitor’s problem of being hungry and the 
possibility of your providing a solution. A 
polite response to this rude announce- 
ment would be, “Well, then, | won't keep 
you. You'll be wanting to get home to 
dinner. So nice to have seen you.” 
e 
Dear Miss Manners: 
What is the correct response when your 
pregnant friends insist on showing you the 
photographs from their sonograms? This 
has happened to me three times, and | 
somehow feel that saying, “Oh, how cute” 
is inappropriate. Any suggestions? 
Gentle Reader: 
None better than “Oh, how cute.” Miss 
Manners presents her compliments to you. 
Miss Manners’ Guide to the 
Turn-of-the-Millennium 
Judith Martin. 1989; 742 pp. 
ISBN 0-67 1-72228-X 
$15.95 ($18.95 postpaid) from Simon & 
Schuster/Order Dept., 200 Old Tappan 
Road, Old Tappan, NJ 07675; 800/223-2336 
(2. coe 
POR THE 
NOR 
LTE MELEE 
Whole Systems 
CLASSICS, PERENNIALS, REFERENCES 37 
tention back to that central fact, even 
though so many other forces drive us 
to think of the world as a constellation 
of things, rather than a plenum of be- 
ings. —HLR 
e 
The You encounters me by grace—it can- 
not be found by seeking. But that | speak 
the basic word to it is a deed of my whole 
being, is my essential deed. 
The You encounters me. But | enter into a 
direct relationship to it. Thus the relation- 
ship is election and electing passive and 
active at once: An action of the whole be- 
ing must approach passivity, for it does 
away with all partial actions and thus with 
any sense of action, which always depends 
on limited exertions. 
The basic word I-You can be spoken only 
with one’s whole being. The concentration 
and fusion into a whole being can never be 
accomplished by me, can never be accom- 
plished without me. | require a You to 
become; becoming I, | say You. 
All actual life is encounter. 
e 
Whoever says You does not have some- 
thing for his object. For wherever there is 
something, there is also another something; 
every It borders on other Its; It is only by 
virtue of bordering on others. But where 
You is said there is no something. You has 
no borders. 
Whoever says You does not have 
something; he has nothing. But he 
stands in relation. 
e 
The life of a human being does not exist 
merely in the sphere of goal-directed verbs. 
It does not consist merely of activities that 
have something for their object. 
| perceive something. | feel something. | 
imagine something. | want something. | 
sense something. | think something. The life 
of a human being does not consist merely 
of all this and its like. 
All this and its like is the basis of the 
realm of It. 
But the realm of You has another basis. 
Tales of the Dervishes 
‘It is a fundamental mistake of man’s 
to think that he is alive, when he has 
merely fallen asleep in life's waiting 
room” is the way Idries Shah, contem- 
porary Sufi anthologist, describes the 
Sufi project: helping people awaken 
from the illusions of everyday life. 
Along with attention exercises, physi- 
cal exercises, and a whole mystic 
toolkit of self-observation techniques, 
Sufis use the world’s most well-known 
consciousness-altering tool — stories. 
The “teaching stories” of the Dervishes 
and other Sufis resemble simple 
children’s fables, but like well-aimed 
stones tossed into the pond of consen- 
sus trance, their effects nipple out into 
the minds and lives of those who read 
them. Attention is the supreme instru- 
ment. These stories teach by pointing. 
—HLR 
e 
There was once a hard-working and gener- 
ous farmer who had several idle and greedy 
sons. On his deathbed he told them that 
they would find his treasure if they were to 
dig in a certain field. As soon as the old 
man was dead, the sons hurried to the 
fields, which they dug up from one end to 
the other, and with increasing desperation 
and concentration when they did not find 
the gold in the place indicated. 
But they found no gold at all. Realizing that 
in his generosity their father must have 
given the gold away during his lifetime, they 
abandoned the search. Finally, it occurred 
to them that, since the land had been pre- 
pared, they might as well now sow a crop. 
They planted wheat, which produced an 
abundant yield. They sold this crop and 
prospered that year. 
After the harvest was in, the sons thought 
again about the bare possibility that they 
might have missed the buried gold, so 
they again dug up their fields, with the 
same result. 
After several years they became accus- 
tomed to labour, and to the cycle of the 
seasons, something which they had not un- 
derstood before. Now they understood the 
reason for their father’s method of training 
them, and they became honest and con- 
tented farmers. Ultimately they found 
themselves possessed of sufficient wealth 
no longer to wonder about the hidden 
hoard. 
Thus it is with the teaching of the under- 
standing of human destiny and the meaning 
of life. The teacher, faced with impatience, 
confusion and covetousness on the part of 
the students, must direct them to an activ- 
ity which is known by him to be 
constructive and beneficial to them, but 
whose true function and aim is often hid- 
den from them by their own rawness. 
Tales of the Dervishes 
(Teaching Stories of the Sufi Masters over 
the Past Thousand Years) 
Idries Shah. Arkana, 1993; 219 pp. 
ISBN 0-14-019358-8 
$10 ($12 postpaid) from Penguin USA/ 
Cash Sales, 120 Woodbine Street, 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621; 800/253-6476 
