Sustainability 
PRESERVING PLANT KNOWLEDGE 
Seeds of Change 
Author Kenny Ausubel, who in 1989 
formed an organic seed company 
(also called “Seeds of Change"), delin- 
eates how the breadth and resilience 
of our food supply — not to mention 
such whimsical concerns as taste and 
nutrition — are being sacrificed for 
perceived practical advantages in 
things like crop yield, packing suitabil- 
ity, and shipping schedules. More omi- 
nous are the agendas of a number of 
the vertically integrated companies 
that not only make the pesticides and 
petrochemical fertilizers, but sell most 
of the seeds used by US farmers as 
well — seeds they've deliberately 
altered to tolerate huge quantities 
of chemicals. 
Balancing its sober warning of im- 
pending catastrophe, the book also 
celebrates the riotously myriad world 
of seed diversity propagated by Seeds 
of Change. Eight hundred different 
kinds of plants are cultivated at the 
company’s farm in New Mexico's Gila 
Valley. The organization's mission is to 
“create a botanical ark, a genetic 
shelterbelt against an erosing future.” 
To this end, the company has eighty 
growers in twenty-seven states provid- 
ing them with certified organic seeds, 
many of them “heirlooms” handed 
down through generations. 
Ausubel believes that organic backyard 
gardeners, planting their own Idiosyn- 
cratic array of fruits and vegetables, 
are key to reversing the march of 
homogeneity and holding off the bio- 
logical holocaust. Reading his vivid 
descriptions of the hundreds of lus- 
cious vegetables you'll never find in 
a supermarket, from Red Russian 
kale to Calabash tomatoes to Nan- 
tes carrots, will inspire you to go 
out there and grow your own. 
—Laurie Benenson 
Seeds of Change 
(The Living Treasure) 
Kenny Ausubel, Harper San Francisco, 
1994; 256 pp. 
ISBN 0-06-250008-2 
$18 ($20.75 postpaid) from HarperCollins 
Publishers/Direct Mail, P. O. Box 588, 
Dunmore, PA 18512; 800/331-3761 
e 
The Gila farm tested around a hundred wa- 
termelons last year and is testing a hundred 
and fifty in 1993. The Early Moonbeam is a 
ravishing favorite, yellow-fleshed and thin- 
skinned. Its excellent flavor is a summer ro- 
mance. “Another prize of the south,” says 
Rich, licking his lips, “is the Black Diamond. 
These melons can get to be forty-five 
pounds, and | know that sounds gargan- 
tuan and outrageous. How can you eat 
something that big? But if you had ever sat 
down ona 
hot day with ten people around 
a forty-five-pound Black Diamond whose 
every bite was delicious right down to the 
rind, you might want to grow it too.” 
e 
Poised on the two-headed cusp of the bio- 
technology revolution, the seed genetics in- 
dustry comprehends the depth of public 
controversy it could provoke. Scientists are 
| 
reporting to work today at the gene bank 
and the cell library. Using tissue culture 
technology, they take cellular samples of a 
plant and grow it out in the laboratory. 
They cook up large batches of plant em- 
bryos and bathe them in liquid fertilizers 
and pesticides. Then they ready them for 
sale to farmers and gardeners, eliminating 
all the chancy, costly, time-consuming va- 
garies of agriculture and seed production. 
How will the twenty-first century Norman 
Rockwell picture eager gardeners poring 
over their spring seed catalogs in gleeful 
anticipation of embryo-planting season? 
Enduring Seeds 
In his third book, ethnobotanist Gary 
Nabhan continues his exploration of 
Native American farmers and their 
crops. Nabhan collects seeds from 
these farmers and distributes them to 
Native Americans and others willing to 
grow and thus preserve these often 
rare and endangered varieties. He is 
also a good writer, and this time trav- 
els far beyond the Sonoran desert 
bioregion. This collection of essays is 
filled with good stories of interesting 
people in out-of-the-way places. It is 
history with roots in the soils of the 
present. —RN 
e 
Modern agriculture has let temporary 
cheap petro-chemicals and water substitute 
for the natural intelligence — the stored 
genetic and ecological information — in 
self-adjusting biological communities. 
e 
For centuries, local seed-saving was the 
norm. Ethnobotanist Janis Alcorn has de- 
scribed how traditional farmers follow un- 
written “scripts,” learned by hand and 
mouth from their elders, that keep agricul- 
tural practices relatively consistent from 
generation to generation. Most land-based 
cultures have such scripts that guide plant 
selection and seed-saving. Each individual 
farmer might edit this script to fit his or her 
peculiar farming conditions, but the general 
scheme is passed on to the farmer’s de- 
scendants. Thus, the crop traits emerging 
through natural selection in a given locality 
are retained or elaborated by recurrent 
cultural selection. 
e 
Some native farmers don’t necessarily plant 
the same kind of corn every season, but 
vary their selection depending upon the 
weather. By having caches of other 
seedstocks for particular weather condi- 
tions, farmers can hedge their bets. An- 
thropologist Tim Dunnigan has told me of 
this kind of crop switching among Mexico's 
Mountain Pima, relatives of the Pima and 
Tohono O’odham of Arizona. They keep 
several varieties of maize on hand, including 
a quick-maturing corn in case spring 
drought should delay planting, thus short- 
Biodiversity Prospecting 
Biodiversity prospecting is the name 
for one of the most important new 
models of sustainable business—a 
way to discover dramatically useful 
biological tools for pharmaceutical 
and agricultural applications while 
preserving the wildland habitat where 
these riches are found. There are ways 
to misuse ethnobotony, and the most 
well-meaning ventures can cause 
more damage than good if they 
aren't set up properly. This report 
by World Resources Institute, Rain- 
forest Alliance, and African Centre for 
Technology Studies sets out guidelines 
for researchers, entrepreneurs, and 
policymakers who are creating the 
methodology, business, and legislative 
underpinnings of this new kind of 
sustainable technology. —HLR 
e 
If a rancher sells a cow to a slaughterhouse, 
he gets the profits (less any tax imposed by 
the government to cover public services to 
the rancher). But if the rancher sells the 
genes of a tree on his ranch, he has sold a 
piece of common national property. 
Shouldn't some of the returns from such a 
sale be distributed more broadly and be na- 
tionally regulated? And does a transaction 
tax represent a fair contribution to the 
enormous national cost of maintaining the 
whole tree population? (Recall that the ge- 
netic material on the individual’s ranch 
might not be able to survive if other popu- 
lations of that species and supporting spe- 
cies were not thriving outside the 
boundaries of the ranch.) The problem is 
that if the profits are broadly distributed, 
individual farmers may receive so little that 
they will not value the tree. The solution 
— at least in part — is for ranchers to sell 
services. Getting the sample and insuring the 
survival and health of the tree from which it 
came are part of these services. However, 
if these services require subsidy from the 
y 
rreyesna 
BR SPE 
Biodiversity Prospecting 
(Using Genetic Resources for 
Sustainable Development) 
World Resources Institute. 
1993; 340 pp. ISBN 0-915825-89-9 
$29.95 ($32.95 postpaid) from WRI Pub- 
lications, PO Box 4852 Hampden Station, 
Baltimore, MD 21211; 800/822-0504 
public sector, as is the case with the tree’s 
genes, then the commercial agreement 
should insure a return to the public. The 
INBio-Merck and Co. agreement discussed 
below contains this element explicitly. 
| ENDURING 
BE 
Enduring Seeds 
(Native American Agriculture 
and Wild Plant Conservation) 
Gary Paul Nabhan. North Point Press, 
1989; 225 pp. ISBN 0-86547-344-7 
$11.95 ($13.95 postpaid). Putnam Publishing 
Group/Order Dept., PO Box 506, East 
Rutherford, NJ 07073; 800/631-8571 
ening the growing season. Other Mountain 
Pima maize varieties can be planted earlier 
in cool, wet springs, but need five months 
to mature. 
e 
Why, [anthropologist Edward] Spicer 
asked, have some peoples succumbed to 
acculturation and assimilation, while others 
have endured culturally? When he began to 
compare the cultural traits of nine enduring 
ethnic groups, Spicer quickly found that 
easy assumptions — that the “keepers” for- 
bid intermarriage with other cultures, or 
defended their homeland against all odds, 
or maintained a language to encode secrets 
indecipherable to outsiders — all fell by the 
wayside. Most of the enduring peoples had 
lost some of their genetic identity, some of 
their original territory, and often, much of 
their native language... . 
What counted, Spicer found, was that if 
enough members of a community express 
an affinity to shared symbols and values 
through time, across the generations, their 
culture will remain viable. This common 
covenant must be constantly transmitted 
and reinforced by the legends, codes of 
behavior, ceremonial songs and dances, 
rituals, vigils, and homages to places sacred 
to that particular culture. Once inoculated 
with the values held within their commu- 
nity, children acquired a certain resistance 
to the trappings of the dominant culture. 
Perhaps these values act as “cultural 
antibodies,” which react to outside in- 
fluences in such a way as to overcome 
their negative effects. 
105 
