Nothing to Fear 
The simplest technology is dangerous 
in some way. So is living naked on a 
tropical isle. How to rationally assess 
and manage the risks of life is the 
subject of this often-provocative collec- 
tion of papers. Profits-firsters, Earth- 
Firsters, and everyone in between will 
find plenty here to deplore, celebrate, 
and deny hopefully. All will be made 
uncomfortable as their deepest beliefs 
are questioned. Sometimes creepy, but 
always essential. That's about all you 
could ask from a book. It's the best 
I've seen on the subject. —JB 
e 
The United States Public Health Service 
also played a central role in establishing the 
popular imagery associated with germ theo- 
ries of disease. As the uniformed avant- 
garde in America’s fight against contagion, 
the Public Health Service, a branch of the 
military, created a literal association be- 
tween the uniformed officer and the eradi- 
cation of disease. In its role as hygienic 
gatekeeper at Ellis Island, the service fur- 
ther reinforced the connection between 
disease and immigration, and, ultimately, 
between immigration and crime. 
e 
If some agencies are willing, whether by law 
or by policy, to spend more per life saved 
than other agencies, then our risk budget is 
misallocated. We are spending more 
money to save fewer lives than we could if 
we were less selectively cautious. Worse 
still, if we tried generally to achieve abso- 
lute safety or zero risk, we would probably 
achieve net negative effects by diverting re- 
sources away from pursuing other goods 
(like education or material comfort) that in- 
advertently improve our health and safety. 
e 
Built into the flood insurance program is a 
significant section — |362 — that involves 
relocation of families from persistent flood 
hazard areas. This, and the various provi- 
sions calling for mapping and rezoning haz- 
ardous areas, made the National Flood In- 
surance Program the nation’s first land use 
control law. 
e 
At an earthquake preparedness meeting in 
Little Rock, Arkansas, in 1983, the emer- 
gency managers of the State of Kentucky 
and of Memphis agreed that any immediate 
attempt to get support for earthquake haz- 
ard zoning and retrofitting of seismic risk 
buildings would receive little political sup- 
port; they worried that if such an effort 
were begun at that time, the whole cause 
of earthquake preparedness in the Missis- 
sippi Valley would be actually set back. But 
they agreed that they could start raising a 
new generation of voters who would be 
knowledgeable about earthquake risks and 
who would eventually pressure their repre- 
sentatives to do what needs to be done. 
Nothing to Fear 
(Risks and Hazards in American Society) 
Andrew Kirby, Editor. 1990; 301 pp. 
ISBN 0-8165-1 185-3 
$35 ($37 postpaid) from University 
of Arizona Press, 1230 N. Park Avenue 
#102, Tucson, AZ 85719; 602/621-1441 
e 
Unlike disaster research and natural hazard 
research — both of which inform the work 
of public bodies, but are mainly carried on 
by academics — risk analysis practices are 
being systematically adopted by bureau- 
cratic organizations. Several factors have 
combined to encourage its use as a proce- 
dure in public decision-making. Inquiries 
into spectacular disasters have turned up 
evidence of inadequate consideration of 
risks in existing technological systems: a re- 
cent report on the space shuttle Challenger 
concluded that the U.S. space program 
places too much reliance on subjective 
judgments and too little on formal risk 
assessment methods. 
The Fail-Safe Society 
Charles Piller. University of California 
Press, 1991; 240 pp. ISBN 0-520-08202-8 
$12 ($15 postpaid) from California/ 
Princeton Fulfillment Services, 1445 Lower 
Ferry Road, Ewing, Nj 08618; 800/777-4726 
a vexing problem to be solved. In individual 
cases, of course, a Nimby response is cer- 
tainly understandable or justifiable — even 
noble. But as a trend, | reasoned, Nimbyism 
is poison for a society that aspires to demo- 
cratic processes and social cooperation. | 
saw this as the central question of the book: 
How can Nimbyism be eliminated without 
sacrificing legitimate aspirations for local 
control and personal safety? 
e 
| grew to recognize that by labeling Nimby- 
ism as the problem | had obscured more 
central issues. It is not risk per se, but how 
hazards have been generated and distributed 
that has led to the Nimby era. In a society 
that boasts a strong democratic identity, the 
demand for local participation in technologi- 
cal decision making is hardly surprising, even 
if the degree of outrage over inept techno- 
logical choices has startled scientists and 
technology's managers. (Ironically, demo- 
cratic aspirations derive partly from the sci- 
entific culture itself, with its commitment to 
open communication and diverse participa- 
tion in the definition of natural laws.) 
Averting Catastrophe 
Considering the variety of technological 
threats to which we are subjected — 
nuclear power, gene-splicing, synthetic 
pesticides, ozone depletion and the 
greenhouse effect, to name a few — 
it is sometimes surprising that any- 
thing Is still alive on the planet at all. 
Morone and Woodhouse analyze this 
situation and tease out a series of 
heuristic strategies which are already 
in use to help protect us from new 
technologies, and which go beyond the 
simple trial and error most political 
theorists see operating in society. For 
example, as DNA experimentation 
got underway, there was a deliberate 
attempt to protect against possible 
hazards through containment, to esti- 
mate the risks conservatively, and to 
reduce the uncertainty by directing the 
research toward just what these risks 
were, Although they see our relative 
safety as no accident, the authors go 
on to argue for their more systematic 
and conscious application as we move 
into increasingly risky realms of tech- 
nological action. One remaining serious 
problem is that the ensemble of avail- 
able strategies is at its weakest when 
confronted with problems featuring 
high uncertainty and long lag times for 
effects to be known — such as our 
current problems with the ozone layer. 
—Mike Gunderloy 
e 
How does the objective nature of a tech- 
nology relate to the widely accepted view 
that public perceptions and fears are what 
really guide technology debates and shape 
policy? We believe that the nature of a so- 
cial problem limits what constitutes a legiti- 
mate debate. The nature of the problem in 
the nuclear power debate is such that there 
is no way to establish definitively the magni- 
tude of the risks. Advocates of nuclear 
power can insist that the probabilities of 
accidents are very low, that the major 
causes of accidents have been anticipated, 
and that the worst case would not really be 
that bad, but none of these arguments can 
be fully verfied. Regulators are 
left with no conclusive basis 
for deciding between these 
claims and opposite claims. 
Lacking a basis for resolving 
the facts of the matter, factors 
like public perceptions and 
general attitudes become im- 
portant. The position one 
takes on the conflicting esti- 
mates of the risks depends on 
whether one trusts the gov- 
ernment institutions, whether 
one fears high technology and 
| 
Collins Publishers/Direct Mail, PO Box 588, 
Taming Technology 
RISK MANAGEMENT 
Normal Accidents 
Your worst fears confirmed: accidents 
in complex technological systems are 
inevitable and unpreventable, and 
must, like a little dishonesty, be consid- | 
ered a normal fact of life. The author 
makes a womsomely good case for this 
view, though his credibility is superficially 
tamished by poor science editing and 
careless proofreading. Put aside those 
annoyances, and you'll find ample proof 
that dangerous technologies are not 
entirely controllable, even if the folks in 
charge are models of social and envi- 
ronmental responsibility. Horrendous 
examples are detailed, but they aren't 
nearly so disturbing as the dishonesty 
that accompanies disasters. Ass-cover- 
ing prevanications are expected. The 
less-expected intellectual dishonesty 
| 
short-circuits the learning process that 
can prevent the same sort of 
thing 
from happening again even when 
profits and prestige are not at stake. 
The question is whether certain tech- 
nologies should be permitted at all if 
the consequences of failure are dras- 
tic. The answer is no, of course, but 
the author offers few solutions. We'd 
better get to work. —JB 
Normal Accidents 
Charles Perrow. Basic Books, 1985; 
400 pp. ISBN 0-465-05 142-1 
$18.50 ($20.50 postpaid) from Harper- 
Dunmore, PA 18512; 800/331-3761 
Acceptable Risks: Jonathan Kwitny. 1992, Poseidon Press, 
Simon & Schuster. Acceptable to one may be onerous to an- 
other. How to decide what is best for all is given a sharp look. 
Acceptable Evidence (Science and Values in Risk Manage- 
ment): Deborah G. Mayo, Rachelle D. Hollander & Kristin 
Shrader-Frechette. 1991, Oxford University Press. An unusu- 
ally comprehensive and clear look at the relationship between 
“objective” scientific evidence and values-&-beliefs in deciding 
how to assess risk. 
Readings in Risk: Theodore S. Glickman & Michael Gough, 
Editors. 1990, Resources for the Future c/o Johns Hopkins 
so on. 
University Press. 
Averting Catastrophe 
(Strategies for Regulating Risky Technologies) 
Joseph G. Morone 
& Edward J. Woodhouse. 
University of California Press, 
1986; 215 pp. ISBN 0-520-05754-6 
$11.95 ($14.95 postpaid) from California/ 
Princeton Fulfillment Services, 1445 Lower 
Ferry Road, Ewing, NJ 08618; 800/777-4726 
Mh, ae 
f 
