284 
Political Tools 
GRASSROOTS ACTIVISM 
The Activist’s Almanac 
Your favorite excuse for not making 
the world a better place might be that 
you just don’t know where to start. 
Here is the place. The Activist’s Alma- 
nac describes 105 prominent national 
advocacy organizations, telling you 
their history, how to get in touch with 
them, and how to help their causes. It 
supplies the essential details you need 
to support the idealistic struggle of 
your choice. 
. 
Unlike most guides to nonprofits and 
advocacy groups, for example, the Al- 
manac supplies complete information 
about the tax status of each group it 
mentions. It explains the different IRS 
categories of PACs, foundations or lob- 
bying organizations. (If you are in a 
position to donate money, you need to 
know such details.) Other particulars 
that set this book apart include con- 
cise profiles of groups’ founders, why 
they started their organizations, and 
the organizations’ mission statements. 
You'll also find a list of the issues, 
bills, and campaigns a given group 
is currently working on. 
—Caius van Nouhuys 
e 
Becoming a citizen activist is as simple as 
picking up a pen, or sitting down at a word 
processor. Writing letters to legislators or 
the local newspaper is a useful place to be- 
gin. Notices of current key bills are avail- 
able to anyone who joins a legislative alert 
network. You can lobby legislators by tele- 
phone to their Washington or home of- 
fices, or make an appointment to visit when 
they are back in the district. Join or help 
organize a local group of a national organi- 
zation. Learn how to raise money, put out 
a newsletter, take part in direct action. 
Have fun, and learn from experience. Keep 
in mind what David Cohen, dean of public 
interest lobbyists, concludes: “The chal- 
lenge is to blend the visionary with the 
mundane.” 
Sierra Club: 730 Polk Street, San Francisco, 
CA 94109 (415) 776-2211 
Founded: 1892; Members: 580,000; 
Local Groups: 382; Budget: $40 million 
Staff: 250 Tax Status: 501 (c)(4): Sierra Club; 
501 (c)(3): Sierra Club Foundation; PAC: Si- 
erra Club Political Committee 
Purpose: “To explore, enjoy and protect the 
wild places of the Earth.” 
Background: In 1892 two professors at the 
University of California at Berkeley helped 
John Muir launch a club modeled after the 
eastern Appalachian Mountain Club. With 
182 charter members, the Sierra Club's of- 
The Activist’s Almanac 
(The Concerned Citizen’s Guide 
to the Leading Advocacy Organizations 
in America) 
David Walls. Fireside Books, 
1993; 432 pp. ISBN 0-671-74634-0 
$18 postpaid from Simon & Schuster/Order 
Dept., 200 Old Tappan Road, Old Tappan, 
NJ 07675; 800/223-2336 
ficers elected Muir president, an office he 
held until his death in 1914. Among the 
Club’s first goals were establishing national 
parks, including Glacier and Mount Rainier, 
convincing the California legislature to give 
Yosemite Valley to the federal government, 
and saving California’s coastal redwoods. 
Muir escorted President Teddy Roosevelt 
through Yosemite in 1903. Two years later 
the California legislature ceded Yosemite 
Valley and Mariposa Grove to the federal 
government, marking the Sierra Club’s first 
lobbying victory and the establishment of 
the country’s second national park, after 
Yellowstone in 1872. 
Haran? 
Pat Oliphant and all his works 
He is the Best (if not the Only Good) 
Pat in Politics. A few minutes’ rooting 
in one of his collections of syndicated 
cartoons is good for a deep frisson of 
outrage and invigoration in roughly 
equal measure. See the depredations 
of yesteryear! Marvel that we're 
(mostly) all still here! —JD 
a 
sore Cartoons 
Dy Pat 
April 21, 1988 
STEPPNG ON A MINEIS 
NO EMRE — AFTER 
THAT. You Wis 
E 
Nothing Basically Wrong 
Pat Oliphant. 1988; 176 pp. 
ISBN 0-8362-1833-7 
$8.95 ($10.95 postpaid) 
What Those People Need Is a Puppy! 
Pat Oliphant. 1989; 176 pp. 
ISBN 0-8362- 1857-4 
$8.95 ($10.95 postpaid) 
Both from Andrews & McMeel, PO Box 419150, Kansas City, MO 64141; 800/826-4216 
Resource Manual for a Living Revolution 
The how-to book for planning actions 
and maintaining organizations, while 
paying scrupulous, compassionate at- 
tention to the group's dynamics and 
each member's equal development. 
—Stephanie Mills 
It's dense (even leaden) and very, very 
eamest: not pleasurable reading. Full 
of the real stuff, though. —JD 
° 
Holding a Press Conference 
|. Figure out the two or three most impor- 
tant points you want to make and find ways 
of repeating them no matter what the 
question. 
2. Hold the press conference at a time 
when reporters can come and meet their 
deadlines. Morning seems to be best. 
3. It is often good to hold the conference at 
a significant location, e.g., at the mayor’s of- 
fice if you are refuting a statement by the 
mayor. 
4. Be sure you are in a place where cam- 
eras are allowed and people can move in 
and out easily. Check availability of electric 
outlets for lighting equipment. 
5. Send an announcement of the press con- 
ference to a contact person as well as 
someone on the city desk. 
6. When announcing an action, don’t pre- 
tend to have more people than you do. 
You are trying to build a good long-term 
relationship with press contacts. 
Resource Manual 
for a Living Revolution 
Virginia Coover, et al. 1985; 330 pp. 
ISBN 0-86571-056-2 
$14.95 ($17.45 postpaid) from New 
Society Publishers, 4527 Springfield Avenue, 
Philadelphia, PA 19143; 800/333-9093 
7. Keep clearly in mind how you are going 
to end the conference. You might keep one 
good piece of information until the end and 
find a way to close with it. 
The Workbook 
One of the most significant develop- 
ments in social-change movements in 
the last decade has been the common 
perception among peace, environmen- 
tal, and social-issue activists that their 
Causes are inextricably linked. The 
Workbook has covered this broad, 
interrelated range of concerns as they 
have taken shape. Each issue features 
a long research article and related 
further-reading reviews, and a core 
section of reviews by the specialty 
editors of nutrition, Third World issues, 
the environment, women, work, and 
more. The Workbook’s reviews include 
special reports from research institutes 
and universities that you probably 
wouldn't hear about anywhere else — 
with ordering information. Highly 
recommended. —Jeanne Carstensen 
The Workbook 
Kathy Cone, Editor. 
$1 2/year (4 issues) from Southwest 
Research and Information Center, 
PO Box 4524, Albuquerque, NM 87106 
e 
Everyone, it seems, is talking about a war 
on the Western range these days. U.S. 
News and World Report has called it a “bur- 
geoning ecological range war”; Newsweek 
has dubbed it “The War for the West,” 
warning of a “storm on the range.” 
Although this “war” may not be as violent 
as the rhetoric suggests, it’s just as dra- 
matic. Ranchers, who have grazed cattle 
on federal lands for more than a century, 
are coming under increasing fire from envi- 
ronmental groups, who say that cattle are 
wreaking havoc on the West's fragile envi- 
ronment, and from federal land managers 
charged with protecting the public’s natural 
resources, 
The pressure from the government has 
come in the form of increased regulation 
and monitoring of cattle grazing. From en- 
vironmentalists, it has come in the form of 
such battle cries as “Livestock-Free by '93” 
and increased pressure on Congress to 
sharply curtail federal lands grazing by rais- 
ing fees and strengthening regulatory ef- 
forts. The issues involved are by now 
widely familiar—both national and regional 
media coverage has been heavy. 
The question that is perhaps pivotal to the 
dispute, however, has been the subject of 
far less scrutiny. Whether a grazing permit 
to the federal lands constitutes a private 
property right, or is merely a privilege 
meted out by the government, has more 
often than not been the sticking point be- 
tween ranchers and environmentalists. It is 
precisely this question that has spawned a 
whole legal strategy by ranching interests 
attempting to establish once and for all that 
their permits to graze are in fact protected 
rights under the Constitution. 
