F YOU WANT TO 
maintain 
indepen- 
dence in the era of 
large institutions you 
are going to need good 
M8 
tools. 
Since 
1968, 
Whole Earth Catalogs have 
transformed the world, one per- 
son at a time, by introducing 
world-changers to world-chang- 
ing tools. 
well 
as new 
categories 
of 
resources such as backyard 
biodiversity, electronic mail, 
eco-tourism, 
and 
green 
investing. 
Watersheds are still important. 
Ancient forests are still impor- 
tant. Technology policies and 
telecommunication software are 
important too, these days. 
Some people who are taking the 
world in their hands are out in 
the rainforests. Many world- 
changers are in cities and sub- 
urbs. Others are in cyberspace. 
Here are the field reports, rec- 
ommendations, and reviews 
from the ethnobotanists in the 
Amazon and the cybernauts of 
the Internet. 
Whole Earth is a network of ex- 
perts who find, evaluate, and 
share tools and ideas. Over the 
past twenty-five years, we have 
coevolved a worldwide commu- 
nity of information hunters and 
gatherers. This community now 
focuses upon what we need to 
know to build our own practical 
utopias in the 1990s and beyond. 
The Millennium Whole Earth 
Catalog integrates the best tools 
from the past twenty-five years 
with the best tools for the next 
twenty-five years, including old 
Whole Earth Catalog standards 
such as environmental restora- 
tion, community-building, 
whole systems think- 
ing, and medical 
self-care 
as 
Given the tools we show you 
here, you (or your family, vil- 
lage, community) have the 
power to influence the thoughts 
and beliefs of others. The price 
of computing power has dropped 
so farsince the first Whole Earth 
Catalog that we have entered 
the era of desktop everything: 
desktop publishing, desktop au- 
dio, desktop video. Book pub- 
lishing, radio and television pro- 
duction, and music distribution 
used to require buildings full 
of heavy machinery. 
Communications capabilities once reserved for government or cor- 
porate elites now reside on tens of millions of citizens’ desktops. 
Here are the tools for producing knowledge, reporting and broadcast- 
ing the news as you see it, and creating communities according to 
your own values and ideals. Here we point to what you need to know 
to design, print, and bind books, and how to distribute them. Here’s 
how to set up a computer bulletin-board system and link it to the 
world’s interconnected computer networks, and why a librarian, a 
political activist, an environmental scientist, might want to do so. 
Here’s how to equip your own digital audio studio, distribute your 
own media; how to turna 
desktop computer into a television editing 
console; how to publish a zine, build a pirate radio station, set up a 
village satellite uplink, organize a street-theater troupe. 
New tools are not necessarily high technology. Part of what you 
need to know to protect your privacy today involves knowing how 
to use your Social Security number (and how not to use it). Good 
information about sex in the AIDS era, good information about 
substance abuse that neither demonizes nor glorifies drugs, informa- 
tion about how to organize a grassroots political movement, infor- 
mation about birth and death, parenting, preserving and restoring 
ecosystems 
are all appropriate to the zeitgeist of the third 
millennium. 
We're still talking about the environment, but now that we aren’t 
alone in that concern, our job is to cut through the glut of environ- 
mental books, magazines, organizations, and to continue to point 
out the best and the most effective. We’re talking about new ways to 
revitalize corporations, ways to install more sustainable home 
energy systems, ways for citizens to protect their privacy in the face 
of invasive technologies. We’re still talking about home school- 
ing, but we’re also talking about transforming schools 
and lifelong education. We’re still committed to 
helping people think and act independently. 
We still believe we’re learning how 
to steer spaceship Earth. 
—Howard Rheingold 
Pw) . WHERE ARE 
the windmills? Whole Earth Catalogs once featured pages 
of bold experiments and make-it-yourself plans along with commercial 
windmills and where to get them. Aren’t windmills important any more? Has it 
turned out that they don’t work? Has Whole Earth sold out to Big Power? Was windpower just a fad? 
A closer look shows that the windmills are in this Catalog, 
but they’re concentrated in one book (p. 116). Paul Gipe includes 
all of the principles, arguments and caveats, manufacturers and 
information sources that we would have. He sums up the wisdom 
and accomplishments of many inventors and entrepreneurs, some of 
whom westarted celebrating and encouraging twenty-five years ago. 
In 1968, there were few homes with windpower. Now there are 
thousands. Windfarms aren’t a fad, they’re a big, growing business 
here and in Europe. Just as we hoped and, in occasional bursts of 
optimism, predicted. 
Windpower is only one of many phenomena we've seen (and helped) 
evolve from oddball to mainstream. The 1980 Catalog had 37 pages 
of what some called “Alternative” Energy (as if the sun was an 
alternative!). This one has four pages, mostly of resources such as 
Mr. Gipe’s book. Their many, experienced pages will hook you up 
with who and what you need to know. 
Renewable Energy has become accepted as a concept; grade-school 
kids know the term. Manufacturers, regulators and bankers are 
attentive now. They always are when innovations develop to the 
point of widespread demand and use. Not being much interested in 
common knowledge or nostalgia, we no longer need to do windmills 
and other well-developed renewables. We've used the pages once 
devoted to them to illuminate and encourage less familiar quests 
still struggling to be understood and recognized. 
We also give more space to matters of increasing urgency. It’s 
becoming obvious that many of the most vexing problems we face 
these days have come about because otherwise intelligent people 
have not thought about what 
they are doing in a comprehen- 
sive way. There are “unexpected 
side effects” — a polite way of 
saying that someone literally 
didn’t know what they were 
doing. The engineers who devel- 
oped refrigeration were think- 
ing about preserving food (and 
selling fridges), not ozone lay- 
ers. Most had probably never 
even heard of the ozone layer. 
They lacked a comprehensive 
education that included biology, 
climatology, oceanography, 
chemistry, atmospheric science 
and many other subjects not 
usually found in the mechani- 
cal engineering department. 
Unfortunately, 
there 
are 
similar examples to be found 
among those engaged in envi- 
ronmental efforts. Your own 
education is probably not very 
comprehensive. 
Comprehensive is different than 
general. Generalists attempt to 
know a bit about every subject. 
Focus is not necessarily implied, 
nor is attention to 
interactions. Comprehen- 
sive thought requires focused 
widespread knowledge plus 
study of connections and pat- 
terns. It isnot commonly taught. 
Overspecialized education 
is 
the problem. 
This Catalog is intended to be 
part of the solution. We’ve in- 
tentionally arranged it to make 
obvious that everything really 
is connected 
to everything 
else. Equally obvious is that we 
have not even begun to include 
everything, nor have we been 
entirely comprehensive. (If we 
had, you wouldn’t be able to lift 
this book.) Consider it to be an 
introduction to the missing parts 
of amore formal education, with 
a bit of humor and delight 
thrown into the brew for sea- 
soning. Snoop around. Let us 
know what you find, and what 
we should include next time. 
—J. Baldwin 
