Guerrilla Financing 
Some businesses — particularly 
manufacturing and technology start- 
ups — may require more capital than 
the average genius has sitting around 
in his or her garage. The “guerrilla” 
strategy for raising that money involves 
finding angels — wealthy, hands-on 
individual investors, generally in your 
own locale, who become your partner. 
(Come to think of it, that's how Steve 
Jobs originally financed Apple). This 
method is best used in conjunction 
with, not instead of, the “simple-living”’ 
strategy of starting with too little 
money, not too much. Bruce Blechman 
and Jay Conrad Levinson also offer an 
overview of other methods, including 
dealing with professional venture 
capitalists. —AK 
e 
Receivable financing is getting money from 
either a factor or receivable lender as you ship 
and bill or invoice your customers. You get 
your cash when you ship your orders with- 
out having to wait for your customers to 
pay. In some types of receivable financing, 
you get paid without even taking the risk 
| i 
(MUM 
VME 
MI, 
a 
LA 
STEEL: 
J 
* 
BUECHAAN AND 
a ARLD vino 
Guerrilla Financing 
(Alternative Techniques to Finance 
Any Small Business) 
Jay C. Levinson & Bruce Blechman. 1992; 
352 pp. ISBN 0-395-52264-| 
$10.95 ($13.45 postpaid) from Houghton 
Mifflin Co./Mail Order Dept., Wayside 
Road, Burlington, MA 01803; 800/225-3362 
that your customer might never pay 
your bill! 
The great aspect of receivable financing is 
that the faster your business grows and the 
more you ship, the more you will get in 
receivable financing. Receivable financing 
automatically adjusts to your rate of growth 
because it depends on your invoices to trigger 
the financing. 
Orner Great Resources 
How to Write a Business Plan: Mike McKeever. 1992, Nolo Press. 
The best guide for small businesses. It discusses the options thoroughly and makes it easy 
for you to translate your personal goals into either an argument for someone 
else to invest in your future, or into the discovery that you're 
not ready. 
The Grass Roots Fund Raising Book: Joan Flanagan. 
1982, Contemporary Books and The Grassroots 
Fundraising Journal: $25/year (6 issues). Berkeley, 
CA 94701. 
The preeminent resource book for nonprofit groups, 
activists, community organizations, and artists who 
need to develop financial sources of support. 
The Corporate Finance Sourcebook: 
1993, National Register Publishing. 
Livelihood 
STARTING A BUSINESS 313 
The Simple-Living Business Strategy 
by Michael Phillips 
N THE EARLY 1970s, I became an advisor to hundreds of small 
businesses in the San Francisco area. When we counted up the num- 
bers after ten years, my friends and I found that nineteen out of twenty 
of these businesses were still in operation five years after they had 
started. This contrasted sharply with the American norm (as true now 
as it was then), in which three-quarters of new small businesses fail after 
three years. The proprietors we advised had only one secret in common: 
they understood and practiced the values of simple living. 
Simple living is an approach to life. It embodies austerity (few possessions, 
well cared for) as well as sensuality, flexibility, tolerance, and the avoid- 
ance of rigid ideologies. Those that practice it understand that business 
involves notjust the exchange of goods and services for money, but also the 
exchange of information, caring, personal attention, repair, recourse, fun, 
visions, wisdom, and social values. “Simple living” businesses embody a 
sense of caring — about the welfare of suppliers, workers, customers, 
neighbors, the community, and friends. These businesses try not to be 
demeaning, degrading, destructive, rude or careless. Instead, they try to be 
honest, imaginative, educational, optimistic, far-sighted, and subtle. For 
example, many of these businesses have gained the long-standing trust of 
suppliers, customers, and creditors by making their books available to all. 
Simple-living precepts nearly always outperform conventional business 
wisdom. For example, many financial experts state that small businesses 
fail because they are undercapitalized. Nonsense! Too much capital is 
often a more serious problem — it makes people lethargic. They become 
like Fred, 
a man who opened a natural-foods restaurant in a low-rent 
neighborhood with a large vegetarian population. Fred spent hundreds of 
thousands of borrowed dollars renovating his building to emulate an 
elegant restaurant ina ritzy resort town twenty miles away. Asa 
result, 
his higher-priced food and “slick” atmosphere put people off. It took 
him two years of running an empty restaurant before he found a way 
to attract customers — he converted it into a singles’ bar and grill. 
By contrast, people who start their businesses without much cash 
(knowing that they will have to cut back their personal income if the 
business doesn’t thrive) usually have high personal labor and emo- 
tional stakes invested in what they do. They respond immediately to 
suggestions about small changes that would help them reach cus- 
tomers. They develop the ability 
to innovate, the knowledge of how 
to cut overhead when they need to, 
and a network of mutually support- 
ive people around them — all vital 
Fifteen hundred pages-worth of listings of venture 
capitalists, financiers, lenders, and banks. Expensive, 
but available at some libraries. Good complement to Guerrilla Financing. [Suggested by Larry MacDonald] 
Author of some of the most impor- 
tant books in this section, ex- 
banker Mike Phillips is Whole 
resources for any enterprise. 
Earth’s longest-standing, most con- 
Starting on a Shoestring 
I've known for a long time that starting 
a business with little or no money is 
not only possible — it happens all the 
time. | started two businesses that 
way, and many of my tax clients are 
small businesses whose start-up 
capital is practically zero. 
This book spells out how it's done 
better than any other I've seen, and it 
is just as useful for people who have a 
lot of money to start with. Business 
success really has little to do with how 
much money you do or don't have; it 
has more to do with common sense. 
—Bernard Kameroff 
e 
Balancing investment between “fixed as- 
sets” (furniture, fixtures, and equipment) 
and “working assets” (inventory and work- 
ing capital) requires special consideration 
with the shoestring enterprise. The suc- 
cessful start-ups throw as much money as 
possible into the working assets and as little 
as possible into fixed assets. 
There are two reasons for this strategy: 
First, it’s the working assets that create the 
lifeblood for the shoestring venture — 
sales and cash flow. The second reason is 
that the carrying costs on expensive fix- 
tures are a fixed cost the struggling shoe- 
string venture can well do without. 
| have seen many start-ups, particularly in 
the retail trades, with the fanciest fixtures 
in town and reciprocally the least amount 
of inventory in town. The lesson is that 
customers buy inventory not fixtures. 
e 
The shoestring enterprise rarely fails be- 
cause it starts out with too much debt. It 
fails because the entrepreneur couldn't cul- 
tivate the creditors and put them on hold 
until the venture gained a financial foothold. 
e 
What the business can logically justify as an 
investment and what you will invest are 
two different numbers. The goal is to prune 
investment to the smallest possible amount. 
Cutting investment not only cuts losses but 
provides a better return on what you do 
sistent voice on money and busi- 
| 
ness matters. This piece, distilled 
from a longer work in progress, 
invest. In many of my own ventures I'll tar- 
demonstrates why. 
—Art Kieiner 
get the optimum investment at perhaps 
$10,000 - 15,000 and then see how | can 
accomplish the start-up goal with absolutely 
no money of my own. 
| 
A 
BUSINESS 
WOELDING 
SiN 
WTOLL ATA NG 
as 
see 
Starting on a Shoestring 
(Building a Business Without a Bankroll) 
Arnold S. Goldstein. 1991; 284 pp. 
ISBN 0-471-52455-7 
$14.95 postpaid from John Wiley & Sons, 
Inc., | Wiley Dr., Somerset, NJ 08873; 
800/225-5945 
