134 Community 
PRIVACY 
OWERFUL TOOLS CAN CUT BOTH WAYS. Information processing and communications technolo- 
gies, many of which empower us in other ways, have rendered us vulnerable to commercial or state- 
sponsored snooping. Credit cards, bar codes, databases, pattern-recognition algorithms, voiceprints, 
satellite sensors, email, videocams, personal computers, embedded computers, and supercomputers 
have caught us all in an electronic net of our own convenience, unknowingly exposing our most intimate 
secrets when we buy groceries or subscribe to a magazine. 
Privacy — the boundary between individual and community — is the site of the next conflict between the rights 
of citizens and the power of the state. Fortunately, there are ways for citizens to redefine their perimeter. 
Here they are. — HLR 
ii) 
PRIVACY INTHE 
| , 
MILLENNIUM 
a 
by Gary T. Marx 
The head of a computer database company providing reports on 
potential tenants to landlords says, “The more you know about 
somebody else, the better off everybody is.” That highly question- 
able observation ignores the strategic, aesthetic, diplomatic, and 
self-definitional aspects of personal information. Yet it is increasingly easy 
to know “more” about others without their knowledge or consent. Whole 
new industries have emerged, selling surveillance technology and personal 
information to marketers, employers, insurers, landlords, government, 
and individuals. The United States, unlike European countries, treats 
most personal information as if it were just another commodity to be 
bought and sold like toothpaste. 
What new challenges to privacy will the next decade bring? Eight 
technologies for surveillance are now being developed or advocated: 
¢ DNA screening and monitoring. Beyond identifying persons 
likely to develop serious illnesses or to have children at risk of ill- 
ness, this may lead to claims to identify tendencies to alcoholism, 
homosexuality, and poor work habits . . 
. 
¢ A national health insurance system could merge all individual 
medical data onto a single smart card. Beneficiaries would be required to 
have the card as a condition of enrollment. (Of course you won't have to enroll 
—so this can be defined as voluntary.) 
¢ Vehicle and personal tracking systems could collect tolls or determine location. 
¢ Spy satellites, capable of producing images of objects as small as a baseball, 
may become commercially available. 
* Smart image-recognition systems could permit computer scanning of faces in 
large crowds to locate persons of interest. 
¢ Wireless portable personal communication devices would lend themselves to 
interception, and to place and time tracking — for billing purposes. 
¢ Smart homes in which data (electricity, communications, temperature) flows into 
and out of the home could be part of an integrated system available to monitors. 
* Electronic highways could integrate commercial, entertainment, and commu- 
nications transactions. Even if much of this is protected by an encryption system 
provided by government, one must ask whether the government can be trusted 
to invade privacy only with an appropriate court order. If the conclusion is no, 
then government-sponsored encryption, offered as a privacy protection device, 
becomes a threat to privacy. 
Apart from incursions by new technologies, we are likely to see the continued 
blurring and crossing of the line between public and private places and between 
work, travel, and home. These have traditionally helped to maintain privacy. 
“Public” places such as shopping malls, theme parks, university campuses, large 
apartment and housing complexes, and industrial parks are increasingly legally 
defined as private places permitting whatever surveillance their owners deem 
appropriate. Fast-track employees who are given car phones, beepers, and home 
fax machines and computers by the company are always on the job — evenings, 
weekends, and vacations — and their communications and location are acces- 
sible to their employer. 
Finally: if we think of privacy invasion as not only taking something from the in- 
dividual, but covertly intruding upon the individual, our attention should also 
be focused on evolving technologies for subliminal communication through ra- 
dio, television, and computer screens; aromatic engineering that attempts to af- 
fect behavior; dietary engineering, which attempts to affect behavior through 
food combinations and chemical additives; and microwave harassment and 
mind-control efforts. 
not the rule. 
A PRIVACY 
TOOLKIT 
i 
“Privacy is the most comprehensive ofall rights ... the right 
to one’s personality,” wrote Louis Brandeis for the 
Harvard Law Review in the 1890s. But Judge Thomas 
Cooley, an obscure contemporary of Brandeis, prob- 
ably put it better: “Privacy is the right to be let alone.” 
Unfortunately, our founding fathers neglected to 
mention privacy specifically in either the Constitu- 
tion or the Bill of Rights. The Fourth Amendment 
does protect you from “unreasonable searches 
and seizures,” but it doesn’t prevent your boss 
from bugging the company bathroom, a federal 
employer from demanding a urine sample, or 
your nosy neighbor from monitoring your 
cordless phone conversations with a police 
scanner. In sum, your safeguards against 
government, corporate, and freelance 
snoopers are pretty slim, dependent on a 
handful of narrow federal and state laws and 
scattered court precedents. California and a few 
other states embed broad privacy protections right 
up front in their constitutions, but this is an exception, 
If you want to protect your credit rating, prevent your boss 
from rifling your email, or keep the government out of your 
bladder, peruse this compendium of vital privacy resources. There’s 
something here for everyone, from the casual reader to the privacy buff. 
—Robert Luhn 
Privacy for Sale 
What happens to that “confidential” credit 
form you fill out? To that worker's-compen- 
sation claim? Business Week reporter Jef- 
frey Rothfeder knows, and it isn’t pretty. 
Rothfeder's book exposes the information 
underground — the marketplace where 
credit agencies, the IRS, private investiga- 
tors, direct marketers, and other “data 
cowboys” legally and illegally acquire and 
sell sensitive personal information. To dem- 
onstrate the laxity of existing safeguards, 
the author easily nabs copies of both Dan 
Quayle's and Dan Rather's credit reports. 
This wry book is a cautionary tale of how 
private and goverment databases 
threaten personal privacy, the economy, 
and more. —RL 
Privacy for Sale 
(How Computerization Has Made 
Everyone’s Life an Open Secret) 
Jeffrey Rothfeder. 1992; 224 pp. 
ISBN 0-67 1-73492-X 
$22 postpaid from Simon & Schuster/Order 
Dept., 200 Old Tappan Road, Old Tappan, 
NJ 07675; 800/223-2336 
Your Right to Privacy 
This omnibus pocket guide from the ACLU 
covers just about every privacy issue under 
the sun: what an employer may disclose 
from your personnel records, confidentiality 
of AIDS tests, who may ask for your Social 
Secunty number, how to correct government 
records, and how to deal with sneaky pri- 
vate investigators. “If there's enough money, 
you can get anything,” boasts one anony- 
mous PI in the book. “You have to find the 
weak link in the chain and go for it.” The 
book gives advice in an accessible ques- 
tion-and-answer format, and includes just 
enough history to give you the proper 
context. If you buy only one book on 
the subject, buy this one. — RL 
Your Right to Privacy 
(A Basic Guide to Legal Rights 
in an Information Society) 
Evan Hendricks, Trudy Hayden 
& Jack D. Novik. 1990; 208 pp. 
ISBN 0-8093-1632-3 
$7.95 ($9.95 postpaid) from Southern 
Illinois University Press, PO Box 3697, 
Carbondale, IL 62902; 618/453-6619 
Our Vanishing Privacy 
Big Brother isn’t a dictator on a huge 
screen, but a million grocery clerks with 
bar-code readers. Robert Ellis Smith, 
publisher of Privacy Journal (p. | 36), has 
wnitten a short primer on the threats to 
privacy in the 1990s and means of de- 
fense available to citizens — the technical 
and legal aspects of drug testing, the 
abuse of Social Security numbers, genetic 
finger-printing, “Caller ID” telephone ser- 
vices, computerized data-collecting, and 
other new technologies that help people 
peek into our personal lives. Medical 
records, credit histories, even the records of 
grocery purchases, are fodder for those 
who would invade our privacy not to con- 
trol us politically, but to sell us products: 
read the excerpt below and tell me you'll 
ever be completely comfortable with a 
bowl of oatmeal again. —HLR 
e 
Have you heard about “target marketing”? 
Some call it “database marketing”; others 
