Sustainablility 
PRESERVING PLANT KNOWLEDGE 
Rosetta Folios and Books 
It is possible to obtain plants of ethno- 
botanical, medicinal, and spiritual in- 
terest, entirely legally, from mail-order 
suppliers such as“... of the jungle” 
(below), but it is not as easy to find 
out how indigenous people use those 
plants, how to prepare them for use, 
and other key information. 
Rosetta is a service that provides 
quality books and obscure, out-of-print 
research references in the field of eth- 
nobotany and psychopharmacological 
culture. Folio Set | includes five articles 
about San Pedro cacti, a piece of art 
from the Chavin culture of ancient 
South America that provides clear evi- 
dence that the medicine has been in 
use for several thousand years, and a 
“San Pedro Owner's Manual.” — HLR 
e 
Journal of Ethnopharmacology, || (1984) 
123-133. Elsevier Scientific Publishers 
Ireland Ltd. 
The Healing Practices of a Peruvian Shaman 
... Like that of the other plant specialists 
| met in the area, Don Emilio’s most 
common recipe for the preparation of 
ayahuasca consists of boiling together about 
30 pieces, 30-40 cm long of the crushed 
Rosetta Folios and Books 
Catalog $1. PO Box 4611, Berkeley, 
CA 94704. 
stems of Banisteriopsis caapi with 200 leaves 
of charcruna or yage (Psychotria viridis). Be- 
tween |2 and |5 |. of water are added to 
the mixture, and it is allowed to boil until 
it is reduced to about | |. that is separated 
into another pot. The operation is repeat- 
ed seven times, and the extract collected is 
boiled again until only approx. 500 ml. of a 
syrup-like liquid is left, enough for about 12 
doses. The whole process takes |2 h, from 
six in the morning to six in the evening. 
Don Emilio, like other plant specialists, 
claims to know several kinds of ayahuasca. 
Unfortunately | was not able to collect 
voucher specimens of these varieties this 
time. He stressed the necessity of adding 
the Psychotria viridis (apparently he also uses 
P. carthaginensis); otherwise no visions will 
occur. The chacruna, Don Emilio explains, is 
like the “mirror” of ayahuasca. It is known 
(Schultes and Hofmann, 1980 p. 170) that 
the effect of the tryptamines present in 
the P. viridis (as in the case of Diplopterys 
cabrerana and others) are enhanced due 
to the inhibiting effect towards monoamine 
oxidase (MAO) of the B-carbolines harmine 
and harmaline present in the ayahuasca vine 
(Gorkin, 1966, Pletscher, 1966). 
... of the jungle 
This lovingly amateurish hand-stapled 
catalog reflects the nature of the op- 
eration — knowledgeable plant devo- 
tees who distribute seeds and rooted 
specimens of legal ethnobotanical 
plants. Don’t ask them for information 
about using the plants: the law frowns 
on that. Ethnobotanists who quietly 
supply major arboretums around the 
world with specimens of rare, useful 
plants, they see this catalog as a way 
of taking direct action in dire times. 
—HLR 
e 
As always, the plants remain the real teach- 
| 
ers. They are heuristic by nature, enabling 
seekers of truth to find their own answers. 
Growing a plant can be a profound spiritual 
exchange. ... 
e 
Brunsfelsia jamaicensis, (Solanaceae). Endan- 
gered species from cloudforests in Jamaica’s 
Blue Mountains. Long tubular corollas with 
narrow necks and wide undulating edges. 
One of the most fragrant of all scents, ex- 
haled in little breaths during the evening. 
Reminiscent of vanilla and clove. We keep 
several in | gallon pots, rotating the ones 
... of the jungle 
Catalog free. PO Box 1801, Sebastopol, 
CA 95473. 
in bloom into the bedroom for pleasure 
making. Treelet $22.00 
e 
Hydrocotyle asiatica “Gotu Kola,” 
(Umbelliferae). Tropical creeping herb 
famed as Chinese longevity and brain tonic. 
Good terrarium specimen or as 
groundcover for plants in containers. 
Spreads vigorously with warmth, sun and 
moisture. Commercial Gotu Kola often is 
dredged from open sewage ditches in India, 
so home-grown is highly recommended. 
Easy to grow. Plant $10 
e 
lochroma sp. “Borrachero” (Solanaceae). 
Scandent shrub with electric-blue/violet, 
tubular flower clusters. Elder shamans of 
Colombia's Sibundoy Valley will seldom 
speak of this sacred medicinal, yet they 
all have carefully tended bushes in their 
secret gardens. Outstanding specimen 
plant of significant ethnopharmacologic 
status. Treelet $15.00 
Shaman’s Apprentice Program 
This undertaking by Conservation International cares on 
the work described in Tales of a Shaman’s Apprentice. 
Its aim is to bridge the preliterate and literate genera- 
tions of theTino tribe on the Surinam-Brazil border and 
the Bn-bri in Costa Rica, and to preserve indigenous eth- 
nobotanical knowledge, assisting older tribal members in 
assembling this knowledge and passing it on to the 
younger generation. 
For information about membership in Conservation 
International, write: 1015 | 8th Street NW, Suite | 000, 
Washington, DC 20036; 202-429-5660. —MKS 
1992, Synergetic Press. 
Seed to Seed, Susanne Ashworth, 1991, Seed Savers Exchange. 
RR3, Box 239, Decorah, IA 52101. 319/382-5990, 
Native Seeds/SEARCH. Preserving and learning to use garden- 
ing heritage. 2509 N. Campbell Ave. #325, Tucson, AZ 85719. 
Tales of a Shaman’s 
Apprentice 
Tales of a Shaman’s 
Apprentice 
(An Ethnobotanist Searches 
for New Medicines in the 
Amazonian Rain Forest) 
Mark Plotkin. Viking, 1993; 
318 pp. ISBN 0-670-83 137-9 
$22 ($24 postpaid) from 
Penguin USA/Cash Sales, 120 
Woodbine Street, Bergenfield, 
NJ 07621; 800/253-6476 
Witch doctor of the Wayana 
tribe, upper Tapanahony 
River, southeast Suriname. 
Some of the plants he is 
holding are from the frank- 
incense family and are used 
to treat colds. 
Plant people recognize each other 
not only by a shared enthusiasm for 
the myriad forms, colors, growth pat- 
terns, and useful properties of their 
favorite living things, but also by the 
shared shape of lives lived in relation 
to plants. This is the story of encoun- 
ters between a Harvard-educated 
plant person and the leading plant 
experts of the Americas: the shamans 
and healers of the tropical-forest so- 
cieties of South America. Despite his 
alien background, these experts saw 
Dr. Plotkin as a colleague in plant 
studies and shared their hard-won 
knowledge with him. Plant people will 
find their kindred in this book. They 
will also hear tales drawn from sev- 
eral centuries of seeking plants and 
plant extracts that heal, kill, stimu- 
late, stun, lubricate, bounce, etc. And, 
if they hope to someday have occa- 
sion to visit with their South Amen- 
can colleagues, they will pick up a 
few tips for the trail. —Bret Blosser 
e 
After walking for several hours and look- 
ing at a number of plants, we decided to 
stop for lunch. | was carrying a daypack 
into which Fritz had put two pieces of 
smoked fish he had been given in the vil- 
Orner Great Resources 
PlantWise. Kathleen Harrison McKenna, Editor. $20/year (4 
issues). Botanical Dimensions, PO Box 807, Occidental, CA 95465. 
Vine of the Soul: Medicine Men, Their Plants and Rituals in the 
Colombian Amazonia. Richard Evans Schultes & Robert F. Raffauf, 
lage. As | sat down, | brushed my arm 
against a large liana; | immediately felt a 
burning sensation. This was the famed “fire 
liana” | had bumped into in French Guiana. 
Seeing my discomfort, Fritz disappeared 
from the trail into the jungle. He came back 
holding a small herb with bright green 
leaves. He carefully broke off three leaves 
and rolled them together between his 
palms, making a cylindrical shape. He folded 
the cylinder twice, placed it in his palm, 
crushed the leaves into a thick green paste 
with his fist, and rubbed it on my burn. By 
the time we had finished eating, the pain 
and the redness had disappeared. 
Fritz proved to be a jungle druggist par ex- 
cellence, pointing out healing plants almost 
every step of the way. We collected the tri- 
angular-leaved mispel herb, eaten to treat 
gonorrhea; the fetid wood of the jarakopi 
tree, brewed into a tea to relieve fevers; and 
the green, heart-shaped leaves of a delicate 
little herb called konsaka wiriri, which is lit- 
erally used from head to toe as a treatment 
for both headache and athlete’s foot. Fritz 
also pointed out the mokomoko, a shrub 
with leaves shaped like arrowheads, which 
is found only at the edge of the river. The 
sap of the mokomoko is dripped into cuts 
and other wounds to stanch blood flow. 
Fritz warned that this is a painful remedy 
because the plant fluid burns when applied. 
But one plant stood out from all the 
others in terms of healing properties. It 
was a small green herb growing at the edge 
of the trail; the plant's unremarkable ap- 
pearance gave no indication of its curative 
potential. Pulling the herb up by the roots, 
Fritz explained that you take a tea of the 
leaves twice a day — “te joe habe toomsi 
soekroe na broedoe” — when you have 
too much sugar in the blood. It took 
a minute for me to realize the malady 
Fritz was describing was diabetes. | 
asked him to explain how tribal peo- 
ples living deep in the rain forest 
were able to diagnose excessive 
sugar in the bloodstream. 
“Simple,” he replied. “You taste 
the urine.” 
