Real Goods 
We last reported on the Real Goods 
Trading Corporation in 1990, when it 
was becoming clear that the funky 
little counterculture-supply store was 
maturing into the world’s largest, most 
comprehensive purveyor of renewable 
energy hardware. That year, they 
grossed about $2 million. In 1993, 
they boasted revenues approaching 
$12 million (before taxes), with com- 
mon stock being traded on the Pacific 
Stock Exchange. The company contin- 
ues to grow vigorously, recently acquir- 
ing Earth Care Paper Company, and 
opening a midwest retail store in 
Amherst, WI. 
The rapid growth of Real Goods has 
not been without its problems and de- 
tractors. To my mind, most of the valid 
complaints are the classic ones that 
attend any rapidly expanding enter- 
prise that grows beyond Mom & Pop 
dimensions and capabilities: toes get 
stepped upon in the tumult, jealousies 
arise, smaller rivals are outcompeted, 
some management experiments fail, 
certain corporate policies are out- 
grown — sometimes with messy con- 
sequences. Overall, though, Real 
Goods seems to be doing much that is 
good. Here are a few reasons why | 
think so. (Hm. I'd better add here that 
| am not a Real Goods stockholder, do 
not command a discount, and am of- 
ten seen among the complainers.) 
Real Goods does more than sell stuff: 
it also operates the Institute for Inde- 
pendent Living, a series of workshops 
offering training in the several skills 
needed for renewable-energy work, as 
d professional or on your own spread. 
Of course, this sells more goods, but 
the graduates often go on to become 
teachers; that benefits everyone. 
A lively free newspaper, the Real 
Goods News, preaches comfort to the 
saved and spreads the word to the 
heathen hordes. What isn't ads is 
mostly gab from critics, commenters, 
curmudgeons (including me), installers, 
teachers, and folks at the front lines of 
off-the-grid living. With a whopping 
200,000 circulation, the paper is 
hastening the day when en- 
ergy-efficient building is con- 
sidered normal building. ia 
The Book of Light 
One of the easiest and 
most effective ways 
you can be a better 
environmental citizen 
is to replace (where 
appropriate) your dra- 
A corporate headquarters complex 
has been designed, by architect/ 
teacher Sim Van der Ryn (p. 230), 
and land has been selected near 
Hopland, CA. Work should be under 
way as you read this. It will be a dem- 
onstration of sensitive land use and 
will, of course, show much of the Real 
Goods catalog in action. The installa- 
tion should spur increased commercial 
application of solar designs. 
Real Goods had a hand in the Green- 
ing of the White House, a stab at 
making that ostentatious abode less 
of a conspicuous consumer. 
And there's the deservedly famous 
Solar Living Sourcebook. The new one 
(8th edition) augments the Real 
Goods tradition of providing a 
energy education along with product 
descriptions. It could well serve as the 
text for an entry-level course in ap- 
plied energy efficiency. With 250,000 
in print, the 600-page Sourcebook has 
had a powerful effect, increasing 
people's awareness that intelligent en- 
ergy use is not the faddish fantasy of 
a few environmentalist nuts. 
The bottom line is this. One person — 
John Schaeffer, with lots of help from 
colleagues, employees, and manufac- 
turers — has organized a company 
that has made solar hardware com- 
prehensible and available to ordinary 
folks, on a scale that can be regarded 
as significant, for the first time. Real 
Goods claims the hardware it has sold 
has prevented more than 645 million 
pounds of CO2 from being generated. 
Their goal is a billion pounds by 2000 
Looks like they'll exceed that easily. 
How are you doing? —J. Baldwin 
Sustainability 
ENERGY-EFFICIENT 
HARDWARE 
119 
Real Goods 
Trading Corporation: 
966 Mazzoni Street, 
Ukiah, CA 95482; 800/762-7325. 
Solar Living Sourcebook: $19. Book of 
Light: $5. Add $4.95 shipping charge per order. 
$40 lifetime membership in The Real Goods 
Hard Corps includes 5% discount on purchases, 
Real Goods News, Real Stuff Newsletter, 
and a copy of Solar Living Sourcebook. 
| 
oS 
Burns 736 Ibs. of coal. 
rs 
Burns 177 Ibs. of coal. 
matically inefficient, energy-sucking incandescent light bulbs. They 
typically transform the incoming energy into about 6 percent light 
and 94 percent heat that you may not want. You'll not only re- 
duce fossil and nuclear fuelbuming and the pollution thereof, and 
you'll not only save money; with a bit of luck you'll make money! 
The Pocket Socket is smaller, lighter, and less expensive than any other inverter. 
It will power a 100-watt appliance. You can use these inverters to run small TVs and 
VCRs, computers, a camcorder charger or any other appliance that uses less than 
100 watts. Both use a standard cigarette lighter plug. The Pocket Socket has a 
replaceable | 4-amp fuse for reverse polarity and catastrophic overload protection. 
27-101 
Pocket Socket Inverter 
$79 
Real Goods has become the retail outlet for Rising Sun, the 
world's largest distributor of low-energy lighting. The Book of Light 
contains what you need to know to make the right purchase, de- 
tailed right down to full-size paper cut-outs of various bulbs so you 
can see which ones fit your fixtures. —JB 
Ortner Great Resources 
Rising Sun Enterprises, Inc.: PO Box 586, Old Snowmass, CO 
81654; 303/927-8051. Wholesale only — for retail mail order of 
Rising Sun products, contact Real Goods. This pioneering corpora- 
tion sells energy-efficient bulbs wholesale. Their consulting service 
makes sure you do the best thing. 
a 
, “4 
Y 
