nee 
(NTS WITHOUT SEEDS 
favorite trees) will help sharpen your 
hunting skills. This is the one natural 
history profession that snubs plastic bags. 
As with all natural history, a real-live fun-guy 
guru serves best. Call or join the North American 
Mycological Association ; 313/971-2552) to find the nearest group. To growand 
cook mushrooms, see page 169. If you think human history was somehow 
immune from mushrooms, read In Advance of 
the Fungi (E. C. Large. 1940, 1962, 
Dover Publications). —Peter Warshall 
oe 
ie! 
ne 
a 
3 god A USHROOMS, a kingdom unto themselves. Sixty-nine thousand species 
: 
eS 
with thousands to be discovered. They are more closely related to us 
humans than plants, perhaps separating off from a common ancestor a mere 
billion or so years ago. Many mushrooms are carnivores with an under- 
ground, threadlike lasso that tracks and hogties nematodes (round- 
worms), dejuices and transforms them to gourmet mushroom flesh. 
The fieldkit is easy: a hard container, a roll of wax paper, Fungi Perfecti’s 
spore-print file booklet (to keep it all together and compare spore prints 
of related ‘shrooms), a hori hori (a knife for cutting, digging and sawing), and 
a waterproof notepad and pen. A tree guide (since many mushrooms have 
Down on the Knee Natural History: Lichens, Ferns and Moss 
Two-hundred-and-forty million years ago they canopied the earth. Tree ferns and tree horsetails buzzing with yard-long 
dragonflies and crawling with six-inch roaches. Now, we burn them as coal and | ponder their leaves — hardly ever eaten, 
clipped, or curled by beast. There are ten-thousand fems on the planet and about twenty-thousand mosses, liverworts and 
homworts. Guides to these cryptogams (organisms with hidden sex organs) are just now ripening and bursting onto the natu- 
ralist scene. Here are some we could find. —PW 
Peterson Field Guides to Ferns 
(Boughton Cobb, | 963; Houghton 
Mifflin). A delicately illustrated and 
complete guide to the Eastern “fems” 
(true fers, water fers, succulent 
fers, horsetails, clubmosses, 
spikemosses and quillworts). We badly 
need a guide of this caliber for the 
West. 
Introduction to Bryology (W. B. 
Schofield. 
1985; McGraw-Hill Publish- 
ing Co). Tech intro. Also the How to 
Know series (How to Know the True 
Slime Molds, Marie L. Farr. 1981; Wil- 
liam. C. Brown Publishers. How to 
Know the Freshwater Algae, G. W. 
Prescott. 1978; William. C. Brown 
Publishers. How to Know the Lichens, 
Mason E. Hale. 1979; William C. 
Brown Publishers) for slime molds, li- 
chens, and freshwater algae. 
For peat's sake. Human's most useful 
moss and, when dry, what a lovely 
place to lie down. Books to start: Fo- 
cus on Peatland and Peat Mosses 
(Howard Crum and Sandra Planisek. 
1992; University of Michigan Press) 
Field Guide to the Peat Mosses of Bo- 
real North America (Cyrus B. 
McQueen. 1990; University Press of 
New England) and Peat and Water 
(C. H. Fuchsman. | 986; Routledge, 
Chapman and Hall). 
American Bryological and 
Lichenological Society. Join it, read 
their journal Evansia (American 
Bryological and Lychenological Society. 
Biology Department, University of Ne- 
braska , 
Omaha, NE 68182-0400). 
The scientific elves of ecology. Best 
info on rare and threatened species. 
Lepiota procera, tall and delicious. 
All That the Rain Promises, 
and More... 
The best guide for the beginner. The 
most compassionate and fun. Only 
Western mushrooms (two hundred 
species). I'd buy it no matter where | 
lived in North America. Only one 
pound. —PW 
at 
Ly 
Lin 
ee 
Mushrooms Demystified 
The Encyclopedia Britannica of fungal 
adoration. Two thousand species. 
Great introduction for naturalists want- 
ing to know more than if it will kiss the 
palate or kill the bod. You're bordering 
on losing perspective when you buy 
this, the best mid-level to advanced 
book. —PW 
Mushrooms Demystified 
David Arora. 1990; 1020 pp. 
ISBN 0-89815-169-4 
$29.95 ($32.45 postpaid) from Ten Speed 
Press, PO Box 7123, Berkeley, CA 94707; 
800/841-2665 
Ci 
e 
AMANITA. Learning to recognize this ge- 
nus should be an overriding priority for all 
mushroom hunters, since Amanitas are re- 
sponsible for 90% of mushroom-induced fa- 
talities. The outstanding attributes of any 
Amanita — what makes even a rotten 
Amanita not just another rotten mushroom, 
but a rotten AMANITA (and therefore wor- 
thy of your attention and respect) — are 
the white spores, pallid gills, and presence 
of a universal veil... 
Most Amanitas — including the most dan- 
gerous ones — are also furnished with a 
partial veil which, upon breaking, often 
forms a skirtlike ring (annulus) near the 
top of the stalk. At one time those 
species without a partial veil were 
placed in a separate genus, 
Amanitopsis. A feature emphasized 
by most mushroom books is that the gills 
in Amanita are free. This is not necessar- 
ily the case, however, and this feature is 
not stressed here. 
All That the Rain 
Promises, and More... 
David Arora. 1991; 256 pp. 
ISBN 0-898 
| 5-388-3 
$15.95 ($18.95 postpaid) from Ten Speed 
Press, PO Box 7123, Berkeley, CA 94707; 
800/84 | -2665 
e 
Parasol (Lepiota procera) 
Other names: Macrolepiota procera 
Symbiosis (Veron Ahmadjian and 
Surindar Paracer. | 986; University 
Press of New England). How fungi 
and algae interweave into an insepa- 
rable duo called lichen. How coopera- 
tion can beat competition. 
The Elfin World of Mosses and Liver- 
worts of Michigan’s Upper Peninsula 
and Isle Royale (Janice M. Glime and 
Marshall L. Strong, | 993; Isle Royale 
Natural History Assn). The model 
moss book arranged by habitats (bogs, 
fens, cedar swamps, tree bases, tree 
trunks, shaded rocks). Especially for 
the Great Lakes area, but useful 
throughout boreal North America. 
Key features: 
|. Medium-sized to large: mature cap at | 
east 3" broad. 
2. Cap at first smooth and brown but soon 
breaking up to form shaggy scales on a 
pale background. 
3. Flesh not staining orange or red when 
cut and rubbed. 
4. Spores white. 
Other features: Drumstick-shaped (with 
an oval cap) when young. 
Where: Alone or in groups on ground 
in open woods and old pastures, along 
roads, etc. 
Edibility: One of the best! The large, thin 
caps can be fried or broiled whole, or 
sliced up. 
The more field guides you thumb, the 
better you get. No one guide is ever 
enough when it comes to fungi. —PW 
Audubon Field Guide to North 
American Mushrooms (Gary H. 
Lincoff. 1981: Alfred A. Knopf, Inc.) 
762 photos. 703 species, some not in 
Mushrooms Demystified. Since no one 
book will make you happy, this is 
back-up and pinch hitter. 
A Field Guide to Southern Mushrooms 
(Nancy S. Weber and Alexander H. 
Smith. 1985; University of Michigan 
Press). A beautiful guide including 24 | 
species. If you live in or between Penn- 
sylvania and Texas, you're part of this 
fungal definition of the South. 
The New Savory Wild Mushroom 
(Margaret McKenny, Daniel E. Stuntz 
and Joseph F. Ammirati. 1962, 1987; 
University of Washington Press). No 
better way to start if you're from the 
Oregonian Provinces, stretching from 
mid-California to the Alaskan coast. 
The Mushroom Hunter’s Field Guide 
(Alexander H. Smith and Nancy We- 
ber. 1980; University of Michigan 
Press). Updated 
version of a classic. 
<5 
Lovely photos of 
282 North Ameri- 
can species. As a be- 
ginner, | used it more 
to confirm a mush- 
room | had identi- 
fied with another 
guide. 
Mushrooms and Truffles of the South- 
west (Jack S. States. 1990; University 
/ of Arizona Press). The crucial book 
for the southwest. Includes over 
150 species, 
