Political Tools 
ELECTORAL POLITICS 287 
Ralph Nader Presents A Citizens’ Guide to Lobbying 
This classic manual is blunt about how 
to get your way in civic legislation. In 
the era of special interests, here are 
the survival skills used by any side of 
an issue. Not all of them are nice. 
—kKevin Kelly 
e 
A time-honored tactic of some legislators 
and opposition lobbyists is to confuse the 
issue with smokescreens. They may try to 
intimidate you as a citizen lobbyist, with 
technical or professional jargon or with ci- 
tations of their vast experience in the area. 
The implication usually is that you are not 
qualified to be seeking this legislation or 
making your arguments. Often the first 
question by legislators who are attorneys 
is: “Have you studied law?” If you have not, 
make sure you can say truthfully that you 
have had an attorney work with you on it, 
and that if the legislator has any technical 
questions about the bill, you can get an an- 
swer. Do not hang your head over not be- 
ing able to cite any professional expertise. 
Remind legislators, if necessary, that citi- 
zens have a right to participate in the legis- 
lative process and that you are representing 
nonexpert citizens. 
e 
Seizing opportunities. Lobbyists who come to 
know legislators well can vary their lobby- 
ing approaches depending on individual 
quirks and inside information. 
A CCAG lobbyist had learned that a sena- 
tor was particularly angry at the governor 
for opposing one of his bills. When a crucial 
vote on an important anti-environmental 
bill came up, our lobbyist casually informed 
the senator that the governor really 
wanted the bill to go through. The 
senator's eyes lit up and a smile appeared 
on his face. The senator, not known for any 
environmental concern, cast the deciding 
vote against the governor and for the 
state’s environmental interests. 
e 
Some committees are simply careless — 
not bothering to eliminate incompatible 
bills, send misdirected ones to the proper 
committee, check into overlaps with other 
committees, or reconcile new legislation 
with laws already on the books. You may 
sometimes have to do a legislator’s job by 
performing these tasks, Remember that leg- 
islators’ lack of information provides a ma- 
jor opening for all lobbyists. Always look 
for opportunities to supply information, 
even at the last minute and even to the 
most indifferent legislators. 
e 
Keep contributors informed. Most contribu- 
tors, if they are enthusiastic about your 
group, will become very interested in your 
activities. They want you to tell them why 
their contribution was a good investment. 
Keep your contributors up to date on your 
activities. Even a simple mimeographed 
one-page newsletter listing recent and up- 
coming events lets contributors know that 
their money is doing something, and it 
makes them more likely to contribute in 
the future. 
e 
Your story should include a positive call for 
action. We dislike, and we think the press 
and the public dislike, an approach that 
consists always and only of attacking with- 
Out ever advancing some positive action. In 
every story, we attempt to suggest some 
remedy for the problem we are pointing 
out. There are times, of course, when you 
just have to challenge without proposing 
any solutions. 
Ralph Nader Presents A 
Citizen’s Guide to Lobbying 
Marc Caplan. Dembner Books, 1983; 
208 pp. ISBN 0-934878-27-7 
$6.95 postpaid from Essential Information, 
PO Box 19405, Washington, DC 20036 
A\n Electoral PROeesSs 
(Heard in Challis, Idaho, 1992) 
“Tran for office once, and sorta won, 
but it turned out to be kind of an 
embarrassing deal. 
“It was over on the Big Wood River 
about twenty years ago. I decided to 
run for supervisor on the Soil 
Conservation District. About that time 
my friend Mike Walker decided to do 
the same damn thing. 
“The only reason there was an election 
in the first place was that part of the 
Soil Conservation District operation 
was funded by county tax money, and 
Idaho law stated that if you were going 
to be spending the taxpayers’ money, 
then you were by God going to be 
elected by the taxpayers. Otherwise the 
District folks could’ve just come around 
to my door and asked me if I wanted to 
sit in on a couple of meetings and tell 
¢ them what! thought. But Hell no, we 
* 
had to have an election. 
“So Mike’s and my names were added 
to the general ballot one fall, kind of 
down in one corner of the paper, 
looking like the ‘For Official Use’ part 
of a government form. In the first 
election, there were all of two votes cast 
in the race for supervisor, Mike’s vote 
and mine, and we voted for each other 
... dead tie, new election. 
“Printing up a special ballot and 
advertising the runoff election cost the 
county a couple of thousand bucks. 
When the second election was over 
there were four votes cast, and we were 
still tied, two to two. Nobody but 
farmers care about agricultural issues, 
and they are too busy to vote in the 
daytime. I don’t know who cast the 
other two votes, but I know I voted for 
Mike again, and figured he must have 
voted for me. 
“Next thing you know we got hauled 
up in front of the county commissioners 
The Muckraker’s Manual 
Although the pseudonymous author 
touts this handy pocket manual as a 
handbook for investigative reporters, 
there isn’t much in it that a journalist 
wouldn't learn in her first ten days on 
the job or at a brief internship at the 
Center for Investigative Reporting. The 
methods, processes, and ethics of jour- 
nalism are so different from those of 
citizen activism that separate investi- 
gative curricula are necessary. This 
book is a good primer for exposing 
your adversary’s chicanery. 
Citizen investigators will gather some 
valuable hints about documentation, 
source development, interviewing, infil- 
tration, and editing. If when they have 
finished this book, you stil feel a trifle 
short of investigative skills, look for The 
Reporter’s Handbook or the classic 
Investigative Reporting and Editing. 
—Mark Dowie 
e 
Lobbying reports can also be gems, even 
though laws requiring lobbyists to register 
are not very well enforced and are full of 
loopholes. . 
. . If you find a lobbyist you are 
interested in, then to get the full report 
that tells how much money the lobbyist 
supposedly spent, you'll have to try the 
government directly. This can be very diffi- 
cult if you don’t live near the District of 
Columbia. Lobbying reports filed with the 
U.S. Senate, for example, are not copied for 
journalists. (In a pinch, your own congress- 
man may be willing to get the information 
for you if you don’t want to hire a re- 
searcher in the capital.) 
e 
In the mid-70s an anonymous document 
was circulated in far right political circles 
that accused a lot of people of, among 
other things, being homosexuals. It was an 
intriguing bit of black propaganda. The 
document, which came to be known as the 
“DeGuello” manuscript, had been 
mailed (no return address) to key 
and they asked us if there wasn’t 
some way we could settle our 
dispute without costing the 
county any more money. 
“Dispute mind you. Since there 
was probably no way Mike or I 
were going to change our votes, it 
just wouldn’t have looked good 
to vote for yourself, I suggested 
that we draw straws or cut cards 
or flip a coin. 
“Of course, Mike won the toss 
and I got stuck with serving one 
term on the Soil Conservation 
District, which was kind of fun, 
all in all. People should forget 
about the federal government and 
pay attention to things at home. A 
lot goes on in those grassroots 
organizations. I did get awful 
tired of explaining to folks how it 
was that I ended up being an 
elected official. | damn sure 
wasn’t going to go through it 
twice.” —JD Smith 
leaders in the far right. (| later estimated 
the total number of people who got original 
copies to be about 100.) “DeGuello” 
caused quite a stir and hundreds of copies 
were xeroxed and passed around. There 
were enough facts in “DeGuello” to make 
some of the accusations sound convincing, 
and just about every right wing leader was 
accused of something. The effects of 
“DeGuello” were to foment distrust in the 
right with the obvious intent of disrupting 
its effectiveness. For about one or two 
years “DeGuello” succeeded in achiving 
this goal. 
The puzzle about “DeGuello” was: Who 
was the author?... 
Whoever it was knew a whole lot about 
the right wing — not only the names and 
addresses of 100 or more leaders, but a lot 
of facts about their lives. 
It was the best example of black propa- 
ganda I’ve ever seen, and I'd love to meet 
the authors. 
The Muckraker’s Manual 
(Handbook for Investigative Reporters) 
M. Harry. 1984; 148 pp. 
ISBN 0-9!5179-03-2 
$12.95 ($16.95 postpaid) from 
Loompanics Unlimited, PO Box | 197, 
Port Townsend, WA 98368 
‘Otuer Great Resources 
Campaigns & Elections (The Magazine for 
Political Professionals): $29.95/year (7 issues). 
1835 K Street NW #403, Washington, DC 
| 20006; 202/331-3222. 
Lobbying on a Shoestring: Judith C. 
Meredith. 1989, Greenwood Press. Out of print. 
| 
Hard-won strategic insights and basic lessons on 
political power. 
Earthworks Press: 1400 Shattuck Avenue, 
Box 25, Berkeley, CA 94709; 510/652-8533. 
Earthworks published two exemplary voters’ 
references for the 1992 federal elections — 
The Women’s 1992 Voting Guide and Vote for 
the Earth. They're both out of print. | sure hope 
we'll see the 1996 editions: The Women’s Guide, 
in particular, was a goldmine of resources. 
