38 Whole Systems 
CLASSICS, PERENNIALS, REFERENCES 
ATESON, KUHN, LEVI-STRAUSS: three builders of 
mental models, perceivers of patterns in nature, in 
science, in human behavior. —HLR 
The Structure of Scientific Revolutions 
Paradigms are group mental models. 
And science is a collective narrative. 
Steps to an Ecology of Mind * Mind and Nature 
Gregory Bateson is responsible for 
a number of formal discoveries, most 
notably the “Double Bind” theory of 
schizophrenia. As an anthropologist, 
he did pioneer work in New Guinea 
and (with Margaret Mead) in Bali. He 
participated in the Macy Foundation 
meetings that founded the science 
of cybemetics, but kept a healthy 
distance from computers. He wan- 
dered thomily in and out of various 
disciplines — biology, ethnology, lin- 
guistics, epistemology, psychotherapy 
— and left each of them altered 
with his passage. 
Steps to an Ecology of Mind chronicles 
that journey. It is a collection of all his 
major papers, 1935-1971. In recom- 
mending the book I've leamed to sug- 
gest that it be read backwards. Read 
the broad analyses of mind and ecol- 
ogy at the end of the book and then 
work back to see where the premises 
come from. 
Bateson has informed everything I've 
attempted since | read Steps in | 972. 
Through him | became convinced that 
much more of whole systems could be 
understood than | had thought, and 
that much more existed wholesomely 
beyond understanding than | thought 
— that mysticism, mood, ignorance 
and paradox could be rigorous, for in- 
stance, and that the most potent tool 
for grasping these essences — these 
influence nets — is cybemetics. 
Mind and Nature: A Necessary Unity 
addresses the hidden, though unoccult, 
dynamics of life — the misapprehen- 
sion of which threatens to unhorse 
our civilization. Bateson doesn’t have 
all the answers, he just has better 
questions — elegant, mature, em- 
barrassing questions that tweak 
the quick of 
things. — SB 
e 
When you narrow down your epistemol- 
ogy and act on the premise “what interests 
me is me, Or my organization, or my spe- 
cies,” you chop off consideration of other 
loops of the loop structure. You decide 
that you want to get rid of the by-products 
of human life and that Lake Erie will be a 
good place to put them. You forget that 
the eco-mental system called Lake Erie 
is part of your wider eco-mental system 
— and that if Lake Erie is driven insane, 
its insanity is incorporated in the larger 
system of your thought and experience. 
e 
Mere purposive rationality unaided by such 
phenomena as art, religion, dream, and the 
like, is necessarily pathogenic and destruc- 
tive of life; its virulence springs specifically 
from the circumstance that life depends 
upon interlocking circuits of contingency, 
while consciousness can only see such 
short arcs as human purpose may direct. 
e 
In no system which shows mental charac- 
teristics can any part have unilateral control 
Steps to an Ecology of Mind 
Gregory Bateson. Ballantine Books, 
1972; 541 pp. ISBN 0-345-33291-| 
$5.95 ($7.95 postpaid) from Random 
House/Order Dept., 400 Hahn Road, 
Westminster, MD 21157; 800/733-3000 
Mind and Nature 
(A Necessary Unity) 
Gregory Bateson. Bantam Books, 
1979; 272 pp. ISBN 0-553-34575-3 
$11.50 ($14 postpaid) from Bantam, 
Doubleday, Dell/Fulfillment Dept., 
2451 S. Wolf Road, Des Plaines, IL 
60018; 800/223-6834 
The dynamics of 
ecological crisis 
over the whole. In other words, the mental 
characteristics of the system are immanent, 
not in some part, but in the system as a 
whole. —Steps to an Ecology of Mind 
e 
| do not believe that the original purpose of 
the rain dance was to make “it” rain. | sus- 
pect that that is a degenerate misunder- 
standing of a 
much more profound religious 
need: to affirm membership in what we 
may call the ecological tautology, the eternal 
verities of life and environment. There’s al- 
ways a tendency — almost a need — to 
vulgarize religion, to turn it into entertain- 
ment or politics or magic or “power.” 
e 
It seems to puzzle psychologists that the 
exploring tendencies of a rat cannot be 
simply extinguished by having the rat en- 
counter boxes containing small electric 
shocks. 
A little empathy will show that from the 
rat’s point of view, it is not desirable that 
he learn the general lesson. His experience 
of a shock upon putting his nose into a box 
indicates to him that he did well to put his 
nose into that box in order to gain the in- 
formation that it contained a shock. In fact, 
the “purpose” of exploration is, not to 
discover whether exploration is a good 
thing, but to discover information about 
the explored. The larger case is of a totally 
different nature from that of the particular, 
—Mind and Nature 
Like “left-brained/right-brained” di- 
chotomizing, the application of the no- 
tion of “paradigm shifts” to everything 
from spiritual revelations to advertising 
campaigns has diluted Kuhn's mean- 
ing. But technical terms sometimes dif- 
fuse rapidly into the vernacular pre- 
cisely because something new or 
newly discovered needs a name. 
Kuhn's core idea offers us a mental 
model of science as a culture, a com- 
munity of discourse in which research 
is structured according to what is al- 
ready widely agreed to be known 
about the world. The paradigm is the 
container within which acceptable dis- 
course is defined. The cracks in para- 
digms are the routes to the next one. 
This book should be required reading 
for scientists-in-training, before they 
are infected with the old belief that 
they are participating in an objective 
quest for absolute truth. It's also a 
good way to understand how the 
world is like a story. —HLR 
e 
Aristotle's Physica, Ptolemy's Almagest, 
Newton’s Principia and Opticks, Franklin's 
Electricity, Lavoisier’s Chemistry, and Lyell’s 
The Structure 
of Scientific Revolutions 
Thomas S. Kuhn. University of Chicago 
Press, 1970; 210 pp. ISBN 0-226-45804-0 
$9.95 ($12.95 postpaid) from Chicago Dis- 
tribution Center, | 1030 S. Langley Avenue, 
Chicago, IL 60628; 800/621-2736 
Geology — these and many other works 
served for a time implicitly to define the le- 
gitimate problems and methods of a re- 
search field for succeeding generations of 
practitioners. They were able to do so be- 
cause they shared two essential character- 
istics. Their achievement was sufficiently 
unprecedented to attract an enduring 
group of adherents away from competing 
modes of scientific activity. Simultaneously, 
it was sufficiently open-ended to leave all 
sorts of problems for the redefined group 
of practitioners to resolve. Achievements 
that share these two characteristics | shall 
henceforth refer to as ‘paradigms,’ a term 
that relates closely to ‘normal science.’ 
The Savage Mind 
Claude Lévi-Strauss is the most fa- 
mous — | mean, all the anthropolo- 
gists recommend — He's so — | 
mean, so what if he's French — The 
most profound — Sartre couldn’t — 
structural anthropology was what — 
Primitive doesn't mean — | mean, 
they knew what they were doing — 
So when — It looks crazy to us of 
course — They were just abstracting 
in a different — But you can analyze 
it once you — So you see, ritual is the 
— If you never — The Indians always 
— | mean, what makes you think 
you're so logical? —SB 
e 
The real question is not whether the touch 
of a woodpecker’s beak does in fact cure 
toothache. It is rather whether there is a 
point of view from which a woodpecker’s 
beak and a man’s tooth can be seen as “go- 
ing together” (the use of this congruity for 
therapeutic purposes being only one of its 
possible uses), and whether 
some initial order can be in- 
troduced into the universe by 
means of the grouping. Classi- 
fying, as opposed to not classi- 
fying, has a value of its own, 
whatever form the classifica- 
tion may take. 
e 
A native thinker makes the 
penetrating comment that 
“All sacred things must have 
their place”. It could even be 
said that being in their place is 
what makes them sacred for if 
The opposite of totemism: 
Naturalized Man. Sketch by 
Le Brun. 
The Savage Mind 
Claude Lévi-Strauss. University of Chicago 
Press, 1968; 290 pp. ISBN 0-226-47484-4 
$13.95 ($16.95 postpaid) from Chicago Dis- 
tribution Center, | 1030 S. Langley Avenue, 
Chicago, IL 60628; 800/621-2736 
they were taken out of their place, even in 
thought, the entire order of the universe 
would be destroyed. Sacred objects there- 
fore contribute to the maintenance of or- 
der in the universe by occupying the places 
allocated to them. 
