me)iie(erl mele) |s 
ELVIS AND ACTIVISM 
@ ONSIDER the Elvis stamp. 
We the citizens of a great democracy were recently encouraged to express 
our preference of images for a 29¢ postage stamp. For you recent immigrants, 
the question was: Shall the image on the stamp be that of Elvis Presley in his 
prime, in rubicund close-up as he bawls “Teddy Bear” into the microphone? 
Or that of Elvis in his twilight 
— a pasty, blubbery, drug-addled dotard spraying 
the Vegas multitudes with “Hunk a hunk a burning love”? 
That my preference for Elvis-at-trail’s-end over the callow, saccharine Baby 
Elvis turned out to be a minority opinion is not the issue here. | want to call 
you folks’s attention to the interesting aspects of the Elvis commotion — all 
of which took place on its periphery, not at its brainless, bankrupt center. 
|. This is the sort of thing our vote is held to be good for. We are let to vote, 
emphatically enjoined to vote, told we are bad citizens not to vote, but the bulk 
of our choices are Elvis-caliber; to get even a peashooter’s shot at changing 
anything more pertinent to our actual situations takes patience, acuity, and a 
high tolerance for hogwash. 
2. This is the sort of misdirection used by cheesy carnie magicians to swindle 
the rubes. We look for Elvises up the prestidigitator’s sleeves as he smoothly 
lets our trousers drop to our ankles. 
3. The mainstream media eagerly support such connivances. They beat each 
other in the face for the opportunity to sell us the Elvis Choice and similar 
worthless notions. But they are after all in the business of selling advertis- 
ing, not information, and it misses the point to blame them for inundating us 
with slurry. 
4. Weare mostly consensual in the process of being led astray. This is because 
| we tend to be suckers. Remembering not to believe without examination is 
an exhausting job. In the unceasing surf of misinformation, disinformation, 
sugar syrup, viciousness, venality, happy horseshit, arterial blood, denial, race | 
hatred, simple answers, military solutions, anti-intellectualism, and lockstep 
clodhopping Dodo Fascism, remembering not to believe without examination 
almost certainly qualifies you as a crank. So we consent, then forget that we 
| 
might have done otherwise. 
The best lack all conviction, while the worst 
Are full of passionate intensity. 
| interpret Yeats’s observation to mean: the smarter people are, the more | 
habitually they see the complexity of a situation and the multiple sides of an 
issue. And so they are immobilized while the brutes and murderous fools forge 
ahead to run the show, not being troubled by doubt or empathy or the absence 
| of the long view. 
Impeded by fairness, swamped by false choices, we still have a choice that we 
| can give ourselves: we can keep trying to improve the way we are ruled. We 
can strive not to let matters get worse; not to let our society slide further into 
isolation, mutual fear, heartless cruelty. “Our society” sounds like a great big 
thing, and it has that alienating sour flatulent sound of a phrase that the hacks 
have chewed, but what it is, is just us. In this very small boat. 
Our best hope is to work for change at the bottom of the pile: locally, 
personally, in human scale. When they work hard enough, and hold on long 
enough, people win at this game. These pages supply the proof. The resources 
in this section offer the example and advice of people — just us — who have 
successfully sought change to the system. They are tools for making choices 
and making a difference. 
Government at the top is, by its nature, isolated from its constituents. And in 
view of its nature, we are better off down here on the street, operating in our 
most natural, efficient configuration — as a rabble — but an informed, focused 
rabble, assembled through consensus: the stranger the bedfellows, the livelier 
the action. “Come, let us reason together.” That means us, such as we are. 
—James Donnelly 
Making Things Happen 
Aw God it's so tedious! Such endless 
thankless work! Oh spare me this 
mile-high heap of unstuffed envelopes, 
this truckload of bright posters — 
and these my fellow volunteers and 
likeminded makers of common cause! 
Volunteering for political efforts can 
bring tears of frustration to your eyes, 
Similar tears may be seen in the eyes 
of those efforts’ “Volunteer coordina- 
tors.” In this top-notch book, Joan 
Wolfe shows now a volunteer staff can 
function effectively and bring lasting 
satisfaction to its members. In the 
course of 
doing so, she imparts a 
whole other book's worth of general 
and specific ways to make a formida- 
bly agile and foresighted organization. 
Wolfe's style is casual and readable, 
but she doesn’t waste a word; Making 
Things Happen is dense with broadly 
applicable information. —JD 
e 
Volunteers are not nearly as effective as 
they could be for the time and effort they 
expend. Members of clubs and other or- 
ganizations do countless jobs they aren’t 
trained for: working with others and lead- 
ing them (which is a lot different from 
working with people who are paid to co- 
operate), introducing speakers, conducting 
meetings, raising money, publicizing events. 
Too often, volunteers play by ear. We 
repeat each other’s mistakes. We need 
advice. We live in an age in which we can’t 
afford the wasted time, frustrations, and 
misunderstandings that are too often a part 
of organization life. More than ever, mem- 
bers must make their time productive 
and personally worthwhile. 
That is what this book is all about — help- 
ing you become more effective in your ef- 
forts, making your voluntary organization 
successful. This book tells you how to pub- 
licize events, how to run meetings, how to 
treat speakers. It offers ideas for keeping 
hard-working members and for tapping the 
talents of introverted ones. It tells you how 
to affect decisions in the public realm. And 
it tells you how to manage your own com- 
peting priorities so that volunteerism 
doesn’t become an intolerable burden. 
® 
Petitions are another way to get your 
organization’s point across. You need to 
understand their appropriate use. One kind 
of petition is a legal tool to force an issue 
onto a ballot. The other is a device to dem- 
onstrate the strength of public opinion. 
Although decision-makers are seldom influ- 
enced by public opinion petitions, no mat- 
ter how many are sent, such documents 
can be extremely useful. They call people’s 
attention to the cause, and perhaps even 
more important, they generate a list of sup- 
porters and their addresses. It pays to keep 
petition signers informed and to enlist their 
help at crucial times. 
Written materials that inform decision- 
makers, elicit support, and tell citizens how 
they can help are necessary to most cam- 
paigns. Choose the format that best fits 
your needs — a question-and-answer 
sheet, a brochure, a straightforward infor- 
mation flyer, or any combination of these. 
e 
Provide [supporters] with specific informa- 
tion about meeting dates, times, and loca- 
JOAN WOLFE 
f 
lvl 
i 
w TOE 
rT 
N 
ANU 
Making Things Happen 
(How to Be an Effective Volunteer) 
Joan Wolfe. 1991; 226 pp. 
ISBN 1-55963-126-0 
$15.95 ($20.20 postpaid) from Island Press, 
Box 7, Covelo, CA 95428; 800/828-1302 
tions, and explain what you want them to 
do when they get there. If you want them 
to write letters, give them the names and 
addresses of people they should contact. 
When you spell things out, you are much 
more likely to get the response you want. 
} 
If you are asking supporters throughout 
your state to write their legislators, include 
a complete list of their names, the general 
location of their legislative districts (not 
just the district number; most people 
don’t know what district they are in), 
and addresses to write to. Your local or 
state League of Women Voters or your 
local library are usually good sources 
for this kind of information. 
e 
Once organizations begin to communicate, 
they discover many ways to help one an- 
other. In our community, the local TB and 
Emphysema Society offered space, com- 
puter, and mail-sorting services upon learn- 
ing the needs of a fledgling group con- 
cerned with air pollution. Several agencies 
and groups provided leadership training 
courses for volunteers. Groups learned 
that more than fifty people in the commu- 
nity were paid to help volunteers, yet their 
services were unknown to most of the 
community, and many of them overlapped. 
The public library kept a speakers’ file for 
use by program chairpersons. Few people 
knew about it; the file was seldom used, 
and the library had trouble keeping it cur- 
rent. The Chamber of Commerce had a list 
of volunteer groups in the community — 
an invaluable aid to other groups — but 
again, it was underused and incomplete. 
The groups also learned that a number of 
organizations would provide free space 
for meetings. 
How to Save Your Neighborhood, 
City, or Town (the Sierra Club Guide to 
Community Organizing): Maritza Pick. Sierra 
Club Books, 1993. 
Praying for Sheetrock: Melissa F. Green. 
1991, Fawcett Columbine Books.Unlikely success 
in extreme circumstances. Preachy yet edifying. 
[f= 
