Biodiversity 43 
PLANTS WITH TUBES AND SEEDS 
> 
Plant-hound’s Field Kit 
—Peter Warshall [Thanks to Joe McAulife and Tony Burgess] 
Along with notebook, tape, and rangefinder, an all-around useful tool is the hori hon. 
The plant-hound's fieldkit is not for museum use. Fancy field presses are not required for you personally to lear your local 
plants. Just buy a spiral-bound cheapy notebook and some good scotch tape. Professional botanists hit the ceiling when an 
amateur tries to describe a plant. But they're totally helpful and impressed if you bring a specimen. In the notebook, write a 
poem, record the state of the buds, flowers, leaves or associated plants and soil. If you love to paint, add the ArtPak, a special 
pack for the outdoor watercolorist, to your field equipment (Herbarium Supply, 800/348-2338). 
Most humans see only the trees or bright flowers. To be fair to all plants, try this: take a yard stick. At the spot of 
interest, lay 
it out randomly, without bias for the biggest or prettiest plant. Record every plant. If you don't know the grass or forb, tape it 
into your notebook. Don't forget the belly-plants. Then use a rangefinder to go another twenty or one hundred feet and do 
your every-plant-is-equal survey once again. You can transect from stream to hilltop in not too much time. 
Plantwatching 
Deceptive title for a fascinating book. Wilkins Is out- 
standing at explaining and photographing the me- 
chanics of how plants survive and thrive, and at inte- 
grating the big picture with what causes this on the 
cellular level. The color photos of seeds germinating in 
petri dishes and the diagram of the Krebs cycle won't 
wou 
scare or bore a non-scientist away. This is a first-rate 
RRS 
ee 
piece of public relations for the ingenuity and resil- 
ience of the plant kingdom. —Richard Nilsen 
As long as a grass or 
cereal stem remains 
upright, there will be 
no growth at all at 
swollen leaf sheath 
bases or nodes 
(figure |). However, 
if the stem is knocked 
over the cells on the 
lower side of the node 
will start to grow, 
producing the familiar 
“elbow bend” (figure 
2) that will return the 
upper stem and ear 
to the normal upright 
position and allow the 
ear to ripen. 
Fig | 
Fig 2 
Plantwatching 
(How Plants Remember, Tell Time, Form 
Relationships and More) 
Malcolm Wilkins. 1988; 224 pp. 
ISBN 0-8160-1736-0 
$29.95 ($31.45 postpaid) from 
Facts On File, 460 Park Avenue South 
New York, NY 10016; 800/322-8755 
e 
Plants grow and develop in highly organized 
ways. They generate enormous forces, which 
can destroy roads, buildings and pavements; 
they constantly sense their environmental 
conditions of light, temperature and gravity; 
they measure time; some of them can count, 
some have a memory and some have a sense 
of touch; they feed, respire and absorb nutri- 
ents in a selective way from the soil; they rec- 
ognize one another when brought into physi- 
cal contact, and in many cases they move 
about. They also have systems to combat in- 
fection, while many are able to enter into mu- 
tually advantageous relationships with one an- 
other and with certain kinds of bacteria and 
fungi. In addition, they have the remarkable 
property of being able to regenerate them- 
selves from their smallest components — 
single cells — even though these cells may be 
taken from a highly specialized organ such as 
a root or petal. 
Orner Great Resources FOR 
Maniacat Fiorapites 
How To Identify Plants: H. D. Harrington 
and L. W. Durrell. 1957; Swallow Press. Intro 
to how botanists sort plants into taxons. 
| 
Insects and Flowers: The Biology of a Part- | 
nership: Friedrich G. Barth. 1990; Princeton 
University Press. Once started, cooperation can 
beat competition to hell. Beautifully illustrated. 
The Life of Plants: E. J. Corner. University of 
Chicago Press, 1981. When you graduate from 
Plantwatching, read this book! A meditation as 
much as a scientific treatise. 
Carnivorous Plants of the United States 
and Canada: John Blair, Donald E. Schnell. 
1976; John F. Blair, Publisher. Another great 
plant book by an academic groupie of meat- 
loving floral delights. 
Flowering Plants of the World 
Ultimately, the pleasures of diversity re- 
quire intimacy with the design of plants. 
There are about 250,000 species of 
flowering plants lumped into 200 fami- 
lies (most of them tropical). Flowering 
Plants gently moves through the 200 
families with a minimum of taxonomic 
lingo. Until scratch-and-sniff guides are 
available, it is the most beautiful intro 
to the | 20 million blossoming of the 
Earth's most familiar plants. —PW 
Vernon H. Heywood. 1993; 336 pp. 
ISBN 0-19-521037-9 
$45.00 ($47.50 postpaid) from Oxford 
University Press/Order Dept., 2001 Evans 
NYMPHAEACEAE 
Water Lilies 
Road, Cary, NC 27513; 800/451-7556 
Number of genera: 9 
Number of species: 
over 90 
Distribution: cosmopoli- 
tan, in fresh-water habitats 
Economic uses: ornamental 
aquatics, eg water lilies, 
lotus, Queen Victoria 
water lily; some yield 
edible seeds and rhizomes. 
The Nymphaeaceae is a fam- 
ily of water plants including 
the water lilies, the sacred lo- 
tus (Nelumbo) and the spec- 
tacular Queen Victoria water 
lily (Victoria amazonica). 
Flowering Plants of the World 
The Biology of Plants 
Peter Raven is the Godfather of 
American botany; this is his sequoian 
text. Though the prose tastes of leaf- 
litter, the information sparkles like a 
virgin tropical jungle at dawn. Every- 
thing you want to know and more, 
beautifully illustrated. —PW 
The Biology of Plants 
Peter H. Raven, Ray F. Evert, et al. 
1992; 791 pp. ISBN 0-87901-532-2 
$59.95 ($62.90 postpaid) from Worth 
Publishers, 33 Irving Place, New York, NY 
10003; 212/475-6000 
e 
Comparing life on land with that on the sea, 
we find that only 16 percent of animal spe- 
cies and perhaps 4.5 percent of the species 
of photosynthesizing organisms (plants and 
| 
algae) are marine, even though the sea oc- 
cupies about 7! percent of the earth’s sur- 
face. The relative scarcity of marine species 
appears to be a reflection of the much less 
sharply defined habitants in the sea. Yet, 
more major groups are found in the sea 
than on land, probably because they 
evolved there. Only a few have been able 
| 
to send successful colonists onto the land, 
| 
but several of these — notably the insects 
and the flowering plants — have attained 
truly spectacular levels of diversity. 
Hugo de Vries, shown standing next to 
| 
Amorphophallus titanum, a member of the 
| 
same family as the calla lily. The plant, a na- 
tive of the Sumatran jungles, has one of the 
most massive inflorescences, or flower clus- 
ters, of any of the angiosperms. This picture 
was taken in the arboretum of the Agricul- 
| 
tural College at Wageningen, Holland, in 1932. 
| 
