182 
ay 
Health 
MEDICAL SELF-CARE 
Tt 
| getting a convenient quick fix on a condi- 
Home Medical Reference 
As a medical librarian at the Planetree 
Health Resource Center (p. | 81), I'm 
frequently asked for advice on choos- 
ing a good medical reference book 
to have at home. Of the available 
guides to orthodox (M.D.-variety) 
medicine, these are the three | most 
frequently find myself recommending. 
You should also be able to find 
these books (and many 
others) at your local 
public, university, or 
hospital library. 
Current Medical 
Diagnosis and 
Treatment 1994: 
This clearly written, 
concise medical 
textbook is well 
organized and 
uses minimal 
medical jar- 
gon. Annual 
revisions 
make this 
one of 
the few 
medical 
books that 
keeps up 
with new diagnoses 
and therapies. 
Current Medical 
Diagnosis and 
Treatment 
Lawrence M. Tierney. 
1993; 1418 pp. 
ISBN 0-8385-1375-1 
$39.95 postpaid. 
Appleton and Lange, 
25 Van Zant Street, Norwalk, 
CT 06855; 203/838-4400 
American Medical 
Association Encyclopedia of 
Medicine: This comprehensive 
home reference comprises a 
medical dictionary, anatomy 
guide, drug handbook, and A-to- 
Z approach to understanding the human 
body. Illustrations and charts are useful 
supplements to the text. The book pro- 
vides a good overall review of body 
systems and a summary of the whole 
range of established diseases 
The American Medical 
Association Encyclopedia 
of Medicine 
AMA Staff. 1989; ISBN 0-394-56528-2 
$45 ($47 postpaid). Random House/ 
Order Dept., 400 Hahn Road, Westminster, 
MD 21157; 800/733-3000 
Complete Guide to Symptoms, Ill- 
ness, and Surgery: This handy book of- 
fers one- to two-page information capsules 
of common symptoms, diagnoses, and sur- 
gical procedures. Not as much detail as 
the books above, but a good first stop in 
tion that may be new to you. Other “Com- 
plete Guide” titles in this series provide 
similar summanes for people over fifty, 
kids, medical tests, drugs, sports injuries, 
and vitamins/food supplements. 
—Tracey Cosgrove 
Complete Guide to Symptoms, 
IlIness and Surgery 
Griffith H. Winter. 
The Body Press, 1989; 
896 pp. ISBN 0-399-51709-X 
$15.95 ($17.95 postpaid). Putnam Publishing 
Group/Order Dept., PO Box 506, East 
Rutherford, NJ 07073; 800/631-8571 
Substance Abuse Intervention 
Everyone uses mind-altering substances at least occasionally. 
Around one person in ten is unable to self-regulate substance 
use. Chronic abuse harms people financially, legally, in their 
professional lives. Addiction is characterized by a continuing 
pattern of episodes of abuse, loss of control over frequency and 
Lagi 
fo 
wmOunt of chemical use, and/or a repetitive pattern of adverse 
consequences. If someone you know has a problem and you 
want to help: 
1. Firid-a_ professional to talk to about it, or a knowledgeable 
friend (pr 
: 
ly one who is not involved with the person who 
has a problem 
It’s important to determine whether it is a 
r of perception. Not all use of a substance is 
erson is operating hazardous machinery. 
fo) yi 
thé ee 
pages of every telephone directory is 
risis "TK 
u determine, 
Qabuse or an addiction problem exists, 
point out, 
ginentally, examples of behavior that 
a problem Ne 
| arrests, missing work, abusive 
doesn’t work, mie by several people can be 
ctive than by one individual. Interventions are often 
rained substance-abuse therapist anda group that can 
Spouses, siblings, parents, other loved ones, employ- 
that 
of the way the person is acting self- or otherwise 
ely. The interveners should have rehearsed what they 
say, and checked out treatment options before the 
e interveners arrange a surprise meeting outside 
the person’s home. The group’s chosen facilitator 
will say “George, we want to talk with you about something we feel 
is serious, and we want you to hear what we have to say.” Ask the 
person not to respond until everyone has had their say. Then one 
by one, the group members explain why they think there is a 
problem, citing specific behavior. 
The intervention should end with an ultimatum. A spouse could 
say: “I love you, but I’m very concerned about this behavior. You 
need to get treatment, or | am going to have to leave.” 
5. Some people need hospital detoxification, depending on the 
substance, the person, and the situation. Withdrawal from sub- 
stances that cause physical dependence — alcohol, barbiturates, 
tranquillizers — can be life-threatening if withdrawal occurs 
suddenly, without medication. 
6. Oncea person is detoxified, however it occurs, the hardest part 
of the treatment begins — preventing relapse. A combination of 
education, counseling, and continuing support is best. That’s the 
benefit of support groups, such as twelve-step groups and their 
rare alternatives. Recovering addicts have experience and impor- 
tant information to share, and the company of people who are not 
active users can be equally important. 
The Alcoholics Anonymous model dominates chemical-depen- 
dency treatment. Some people have problems with twelve-step 
programs because they cannot accept the religious/spiritual prin- 
ciples involved. Two alternative groups that can be found in larger 
urban centers are S.O.S. (Secular Organizations for Sobriety) and 
Rational Recovery. 
S.0.S.: Call 716/834-2922 for information on local meetings. 
Rational Recovery: Call 916/621-4374 for information. 
AA is everywhere; check your telephone book. 
—Eugene Schoenfeld, M.D., M.P.H. 
DRUGS 
hj 
From Victim 9 Victor: Harold H. Benjamin 
Ortner Great Books on Mepicat SELr- 
Essential Guide to Prescription Drugs, 
Care 
NATURAL MEDICINE 
Natural Health, Natural Medicine: Andrew 
& Richard Turbos, i987, Dell Publishing. A short, 
easy-to-read, medically-conservative pep talk for 
newly diagnosed cancer patients and their fami- 
lies. It's a good first book to read after receiving 
a diagnosis of cancer. 
Peace, Love, and Healing * Love, Medicine, 
and Miracles * How to Live Between Office 
Visits: Bernie Siegel. 1990, 1991, 1993, 
HarperCollins. People seem to either love Dr. 
Bernie Siegel or hate him; those who hate him 
are generally physicians who do not have cancer. 
These were the most frequently recommended 
books for inclusion in this section. 
Cancer Therapy: Ralph W. Moss. |992, 
Equinox Press, Another thorough and well- 
documented guide to alternative therapies. 
Cancer as a Turning Point: Lawrence LeShan. 
1989, Penguin Books. Considering a diagnosis 
of cancer as an invitation to re-examine your life. 
LeShan, the George Washington of psychological 
approaches to cancer, is still one of the field’s 
most advanced and respected thinkers. 
Understanding Cancer: Mark Renneker. 
Out of print. 
DEATH AND DYING 
Midwives to the Dying: Miriam Schneider & 
Jan Selliken Bernard. Angel's Word, 1992. How 
to support the physical, emotional, and spiritual 
needs of dying loved ones and the people caring 
for them. 
Final Exit: Derek Humphry. 1991, Dell. A con- 
troversial book on death with dignity via suicide. 
Those who choose this path need to be well in- 
formed about possible implications of their deci- 
sion. This frank book also contains a great deal of 
useful information on how not to commit suicide. 
1994: James W. Long. 1994, HarperCollins. 
This annually updated guide to the 250 most 
commonly prescribed drugs. Provides a good 
overview of the basics you need to know 
about your medications, such as side effects, 
interactions, expected benefits, and long- 
term effects. 
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH 
NYU Medical Center Family Guide to 
Staying Healthy in a Risky Environment: 
Arthur C. Upton et al. 1993, Simon & Schuster. 
A good overview, with tips for avoiding and pre- 
venting problems and guidelines for seeking 
medical advice. 
HEART DISEASE 
Dr. Dean Ornish’s Program for Reversing 
Heart Disease: Dean Ornish. 1990, Random 
House. Self-care techniques (meditation, yoga, 
visualization, social support, exercise, diet, and 
more). Ornish and colleagues were the first re- 
searchers to prove that lifestyle strategies could 
not only prevent but actually reverse coronary 
artery disease. 
HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE 
The H.A.R.T. Program (Lower Your Blood 
Pressure Without Drugs): D. Ariel Kerman 
& Richard Turbo. 1992, HarperCollins. A superb 
guide to self-care for people with hypertension. 
How to control your condition without drugs if 
humanly possible (it usually is). Everyone with 
high blood pressure should read this book. 
MEN’S HEALTH 
Understanding Male Sexual Health: 
Dorothy Baldwin. 1993, Hipocrene Books. 
Diagnosing and managing male sexual problems, 
complete with detailed self-care advice. 
Weil. 1990, Houghton Mifflin. A thoughtful how- 
to manual. Especially good on home remedies 
and self-care techniques for common health 
problems. 
REFERENCE 
What to Do When You Can’t Afford 
Health Care: Matthew Lesko et al. 1993, Infor- 
mation USA. An amazing collection of resources 
with information about thousands of health con- 
ditions, guidelines for finding low-cost or free 
health care services, and legal advice on con- 
sumer health complaints. 
SELF-CARE FLOWCHARTS 
Take Care of Yourself * Take Care of 
Your Child: Donald Vickery & James Fries. 
1990, 1993, Addison-Wesley. Simple, straight- 
forward decisionmaking flowcharts serve as 
useful aids to self-care and decisions about 
professional care for common medical prob- 
lems. The companion volume features flow- 
charts for the common medical problems 
of children. 
WOMEN’S HEALTH 
The New Our Bodies, Ourselves (A 
Book For Women): Boston Women's Health 
Collective. 1992, Simon & Schuster. Reviewed 
on p. 184. 
DEADER’N HELL, BUDDY 
Intoxicated by My Illness: Anatole Broyard. 
1993, Clarkson Potter. This memoir of the 
author's final fourteen months is as edifying as 
it is electrifying. A gifted writer confronts the 
ultimate deadline. 
—Tracey Cosgrove and Tom Ferguson, M.D. 
