—Stephanie Mills 
' What are we, finally, to do about It? Not | the lone hero or the dei ex 
machinae in the capitols, but we here. 
: 
Hoary as the advice may seem, it’s never too late to try nonviolence, 
cooperation, compassion for all beings, lives outwardly simple and inwardly rich. In 
Community we may find our myriad ways out of Dystopia. 
The ways and means, the art of community, have been refined in the last decades. 
Many practically tested souls are eager to share their knowledge and a lively sense 
of renewed possibility. Great hopes occupy real ground in these small groups. 
Conflict, rightly joined, can bring clarity, not carnage. 
HATEVER COMMUNITY IS, WE HANKER FOR IT ANYWHERE AND SOMEHOW. 
F The best definition of community I’ve heard is this: It’s a space, or place, where you work with people 
you don’t necessarily like or always agree with, to make It better. 
COMMUNITY !2I 
The Call of Service 
A famous psychiatrist and writer, Rob- 
ert Coles still volunteers in a ghetto 
elementary school; he teaches courses 
requiring community service, and intro- 
duces Tolstoy and Toni Morrison into 
the Harvard Medical School curricu- 
lum. His exploration of service — its 
motivations, satisfactions, frustrations, 
hazards, consequences — is sophisti- 
cated and useful, but the heart of this 
large-hearted book is its stories about 
THECALL? 
SERVICE 
i 
“ROBERT COLES 
The Call of Service 
Robert Coles. 1993; 306 pp. 
ISBN 0-395-63647-7 
$22.95 ($24.70 postpaid) from Houghton 
Mifflin Co./Mail Order Dept., Wayside 
Road, Burlington, MA 01803; 800/225-3362 
service given and received. Coles’ sto- 
ries are also models for doing service: 
slow down, fret less about theory or 
results, pay careful attention to per- 
sons, to each person. Therein lie 
community, healing, and growth. 
—Michael K. Stone 
e 
Less than a day later the long-time guest 
died, and shortly after his funeral (arranged 
by the Catholic Worker community) his 
modest estate went to the only “family” he 
had known all through his adult life. But for 
Frank Donovan and others at the Catholic 
Worker community, | think it fair to say, 
this man’s greatest legacy was his insistence 
on making clear with words what he had 
felt so long. Indeed, the outbursts he in- 
flicted on others and on himself were a 
measure of trust. Here was a place where 
the accumulated suffering of a life was of- 
fered a safe moment’s expression. He was 
not given indulgence or interpretation, but 
the firm, rallying attention of volunteers 
who had no interest in being police or psy- 
chotherapists. They were companions in 
the literal meaning of the word: People who 
sat with others and shared bread with them. 
The Small Community 
People could probably have very inter- 
esting times, lifetimes, even, following 
the precepts laid out in this good old 
(1942) book. There are definite ways 
and means of developing community, 
it says — certain things are known, 
and there are rules to play by. 
Morgan provides a spare but definitive 
guidebook. He covers a lot of ground, 
talking about the appropriate scale of 
communities, economic self-reliance, 
skill banks, the importance and liabili- 
ties of regional planning, and provision 
for the community welfare, among 
many other topics. —SM 
e 
Where community life is dissolved and 
the only remaining sense of social identity 
is with vast societies, such as great nations, 
serious-minded young people who wish 
to be socially effective often measure their 
small powers against national or world 
movements, and develop a feeling of frus- 
tration and futility. On the other hand, 
where there are members of small commu- 
nities they have opportunities to deal with 
problems within their grasp. They can be 
realists and can be effective within the com- 
munity, and so can have a feeling of validity 
denied them when their primary relations 
are to vast social aggregations. 
e 
Many times in history urban civilizations 
have broken down, leaving society to re- 
build, largely from the village level. Should 
there be a breakdown in the present social 
order, the small community is the seed bed 
from which a new order would have to grow. 
If it now deteriorates by neglect and by be- 
ing robbed of its best quality, the new order 
will not be excellent. Whoever increases 
the excellence and stability of small com- 
munities sets limits to social retrogression. 
The Small Community 
Arthur Morgan. 1942, 1984; 
336 pp. ISBN 0-910420-28-9 
$10 ($13 postpaid) from Community 
Service Inc., PO Box 243, Yellow Springs, 
OH 45387; 513/767-2161 
OTHER Great RESOURCES 
Communalism: Kenneth Rexroth 
(Seabury Press, 1974). 
Commitment and Community: Rosabeth 
Kanter (Harvard University Press, 1972). 
Communitas: Paul and Percival Goodman 
(Columbia University Press, 1990). 
Sex, Economy, Freedom and Community: 
Wendell Berry (Pantheon, 1993). 
—The Gaia 
Atlas of 
Mutual Aid 
In the late nineteenth century, the 
vulgarization of Darwin's thought into 
a Hobbesian “struggle for existence” 
began to dismay Petr Kropotkin, 
a Russian prince-tuned-geographer- 
tumed-anarchist-tumed-prisoner-tumed- 
exile. After having considered real-life 
observations made during his surveys 
in Siberia, as well as his scholarly re- 
searches, Kropotkin took to print in 
The Nineteenth Century to reply to 
Thomas Huxley's interpretation of 
the 
Origin of Species portraying nature 
as “a continuous free fight.” 
In Mutual Aid, Kropotkin carefully 
and warmly relates instances of co- 
operation in all animal societies, 
including our own. 
Mutual Aid's reclaiming of conveniently 
omitted history is inspiring, particularly 
the material on medieval free cities. 
With infrastructure shaped by crafts- 
men’s ethics — the guild charters 
— these cities sound very much like 
Utopia. Their citizens worked together 
in all manner of ways to support their 
communes — not from altruism, 
which is a rather modern concept, or 
necessity, but because such decency 
elegantly achieved stability and suffi- 
ciency. It took considerable ruthlessness 
on the part of nation states to subju- 
gate these cities and destroy their 
autonomy. 
Kropotkin found, in human and natural 
history, not a disposition to unremitting 
strife and aggression but an instinct for 
cooperation, and the balance and 
freedom that it provides. —SM 
e 
Happily enough, competition is not the 
rule either in the animal world or in man- 
kind. It is limited among animals to excep- 
tional periods, and natural selection finds 
better fields for its activity. Better condi- 
tions are created by the elimination of com- 
petition by means of mutual aid and mutual 
support. ... Most of our birds slowly move 
southwards as the winter comes, or gather 
in numberless societies and undertake long 
journeys — and thus avoid competition. 
Many rodents fall asleep when the time 
comes that competition should set in... . 
And when animals can neither fall asleep, 
nor migrate, nor lay in stores, nor them- 
selves grow their food like the ants, they 
do what the titmouse does, and what 
Wallace (Darwinism, ch. v.) has so charm- 
ingly described: they resort to new kinds of 
food—and thus, again, avoid competition. 
e 
A fearful snowstorm, blowing across the 
oF 
Browns 
BRS 
ar 
Rniay 
nena 
Mutual Aid 
(A Factor of Evolution) 
Petr Kropotkin. 1902, 1976; 
362 pp. ISBN 0-87558-024-6 
$6.95 ($8.95 postpaid) from Porter Sargent 
Publishers, || Beacon Street, Suite 1400, 
Boston, MA 02108 
Channel, raged on the flat, sandy coast of a 
tiny village in Kent, and a small smack, laden 
with oranges, stranded on the sands near 
by. In these shallow waters only a flat-bot- 
tomed lifeboat of a simplified type can be 
kept, and to launch it during such a storm 
was to face an almost certain disaster. And 
yet the men went out, fought for hours 
against the wind, and the boat capsized 
twice. One man was drowned, the others 
were cast ashore. One of these last, a re- 
fined coastguard, was found next morning, 
badly bruised and half frozen in the snow. 
| asked him, how they came to make that 
desperate attempt? “I don’t know myself,” 
was his reply. “There was the wreck; all the 
people from the village stood on the beach, 
and all said it would be foolish to go out; 
we never should work through the surf. 
We saw five or six men clinging to the 
mast, making desperate signals. We all 
felt that something must be done, but what 
could we do? One hour passed, two hours, 
and we all stood there. We all felt most un- 
comfortable. Then, all of a sudden, through 
the storm, it seemed to us as if we heard 
their cries — they had a boy with them. 
We could not stand that any longer. All at 
once we said, ‘We must go!’ The women 
said so too; they would have treated us as 
cowards if we had not gone, although next 
day they said we had been fools to go. As 
one man, we rushed to the boat, and went.” 
