cn 
Communication 
MUSIC JOURNALISM 
Option 
This magazine was created in the 
mid-eighties to preserve and nurture 
what its predecessor, the inimitable 
OP, had begun: a forum for critiquing 
obscure music of every genre. In addi- 
tion to reviewing mostly independently 
produced albums, Option loudly cham- 
pioned the homemade cassette (CDs 
were virtually unknown at the time). In 
1985, this was referred to (without 
apology, embarrassment, or irony) as 
“alternative music." Option was the 
zine to be read (or to be reviewed in) 
if you were interested or involved in 
the musical underground. 
Option still focuses on new and un- 
usual music, and many of its subjects 
have gone on to grace the covers of 
bigger publications. No longer con- 
cerned with the homemade-cassette 
format, and now getting plenty of ma- 
jor-label ad money, Option has man- 
aged to avoid becoming pretentious, 
clubby, or trendy. It continues to un- 
cover musical gems from all over the 
world (on both major and indy labels) 
with intelligent articles, reviews, and 
newsbits on topics like CD reissues, 
copyright protection, and industry she- 
nanigans, Don’t worry about the occa- 
sional celebrity cover band. Inside you'll 
still find artists as varied as Don 
Cherry, Butch Hancock, Baba Maal, 
and Beat Happening — the musical 
world at your fingertips. 
—Lony Fleming 
uw ising oun asp ot «ene 
ITER 
yp sense 5 courts 
orARon 
Wier Dinieeacenet 
Option 
Mark Kemp, Editor. 
$15.95/year (6 issues). 522-B Cloverfield 
Boulevard, Santa Monica, CA 90404; 
310/449-0120 
e 
You can almost see the dollar signs twinkle 
in their eyes when they talk about “expand- 
ing markets” and “international distribution 
networks.” Listening to them, | felt like I'd 
dropped in on a big-bucks, sci-fi version of 
the do-it-yourself days of punk. But | 
learned not to mention the punk compari- 
son to these new rave entrepreneurs. It 
only made them laugh. To these people, 
punk was not a break from the old ways at 
all, just the last dying gasp of the ’60s. 
The government has also been cracking 
down on music and dancing, yet for some 
inexplicable reason they allow Happy Land 
to stay open for two hours twice a week. 
One evening we go there. It is almost com- 
pletely empty ... 
It’s only 40 minutes before the club has to 
close. The night looks likes it’s going to be 
Folk Roots ¢ Dirty Linen 
The audience for traditional folk and 
acoustic music never died. But in the 
mid-eighties one could be forgiven for 
thinking that international roots music 
had disappeared. Emerging at around 
that time, from England and America, 
Folk Roots and Dirty Linen have filled 
the gap and more. Each has done its 
part to revitalize folk, with devoted, 
enthusiastic coverage not only of tradi- 
tional folk music but of the exploding 
African and world music scene, as 
well as of the folk rogues who bring 
rock'n'roll sensibility to traditional music. 
Folk Roots, the UK's premiere roots- 
music magazine, and Dirty Linen 
share roughly similar types of material 
(features, interviews, reviews, discogra- 
phies, events and release listings). 
Dirty Linen, the less glossy and less 
comprehensive, also offers tour infor- 
mation via several online services. 
With their different slants and special- 
ties, these publications complement 
one another well. —RU 
CAROLYN MESTER 
aft 
me MILLER 
Folk Roots 
lan Anderson, Editor. 
£45/year; 12 issues (please pay in 
£ Sterling). Southern Rag Ltd., PO Box 
337, London N4 I TW, UK; phone 
44-08 |-340-9651, fax 44-081 -348-5626 
Dirty Linen 
Paul Hartman, Editor. 
$20/year (6 issues). PO Box 66600, 
Baltimore, MD 21239; phone 410/583-7973, 
fax 410/337-6735 
The older arena audience enjoying the 
Yunnan Ensemble from China. —Folk Roots 
Grass Roots International Folk Resource 
Directory: Leslie Berman & Heather Wood. 
1993, Publishers Book & Audio. 
Thousands of listings of folk clubs, concert ven- 
ues, festivals, stores, radio programs, and other 
folk music resources from around the world. 
The Virgin Directory of World Music: 
Philip Sweeney. 1992, Henry Holt and Co. 
a dud. Suddenly, one after the other, young 
African men come streaming in. All South- 
erners ... they have walked five and a half 
hours across the desert to get there. They 
fill the place up and start to do some seri- 
ous damage on the dance floor. None sit 
around and just talk. They are there to 
dance. The music becomes harder to hear, 
drowned out by a frenzy of whooping and 
shouting and pounding of feet. The Euro- 
pean expatriates get up to try to leave, but 
they have to pass the dance floor to get to 
the exit and it’s too crazy. So they retreat. 
For 30 minutes the crowd goes off the wall. 
Then the police arrive, the music stops, and 
everyone quickly leaves the club. 
The Beat 
| 
AN 
The Beat 
$12/year (6 issues). Bongo Productions, 
PO Box 65856, Los Angeles, CA 90065 
Reggae may have retreated slightly 
from the pop consciousness, but the 
pulsating rhythms of Jamaica continue 
to rock the island's dancehalls and in- 
| fluence other continents. Founded as 
Reggae Beat, this bimonthly recog- 
nized that the international audience's 
| 
hunger for new rhythms, which Marley | 
did so much to ignite, has spread to 
new vistas. It now covers reggae, Afri- 
| can, Caribbean, and world beat with 
opinionated zeal. In addition to dozens 
of reviews of US and import releases, 
| 
| and columns by the likes of Roger 
Steffens and Gene Scaramuzzo, on- 
the-spot reports from budding music 
scenes (like a recent diary of a search 
| 
for the roots of soukous in the heart of | 
the Congo) unearth the soul of their 
—_| 
communities as well as their sounds. 
—RU 
e 
“Dancehall artists need to know their 
| 
responsibility,” warns Rebel prophetically. 
“They need to realize the power of words. 
They need to realize how influential music is 
... how music can give strength and how it 
can weaken dem too. They are like the 
watchmen of the city and they are supposed 
to sound the trumpet and if they don’t ... 
the guilt will be on their shoulders.” 
Living Blues 
No other publication tells the stories 
of America’s most powerful and influ- 
ential indigenous music as well as 
Living Blues. Attention is paid both to 
the blues’ immense legacy and to liv- 
ing (and emerging) musicians. The 
archival level of detail in some of the 
historical pieces may be too minute for 
some general readers, but the writing 
and presentation manage to be schol- 
arly and accessible at the same time. 
—Richie Unterberger 
e 
How did you come to meet Bo Diddley? 
| passed a restaurant, and there was two 
guys with guitars and a washtub with a 
piece of wood and a string to make a bass, 
and so | walked in and they were sittin’ 
there eating hamburgers or something and | 
asked him where was they going to play. 
And he said, “We're going up to the Mid- 
way Theater, there’s a talent show.” So | 
told him | played harmonica ... after the 
show we came out of the theater and Bo 
Diddley told me, said, “We play on the 
streetcorners every weekend. Why don’t 
you come on by and play with us.” 
About ten o'clock that morning we walked 
up on 47th, which was right near the 708 
club, where Muddy Waters played. Robert 
Nighthawk was playing there at the time: 
Muddy Waters, Elmore James. And we 
started playin’ in front of the 708 club. And 
a crowd of people gathered around and 
they started throwin’ money to us, you 
know. | was playing the harmonica and Bo 
Diddley would let me sing one ... We 
played there for maybe ten or fifteen min- 
utes, then we go up the street, few more 
blocks and draw another crowd and we go 
all up and down 47th, 43rd, and we wind 
up on the West Side at about nine or ten 
o'clock that night. 
Living Blues 
David Nelson, Editor. 
$18/year (6 issues). Center for the Study of 
Southern Culture, University of Mississippi, 
University, MS 38677-9836 
275 
