INYevaarerellas 
350 
IVITIES & EXPEDITIONS 
Outside 
This 200-page monthly covers land, sea, and air sports 
and outings from the perspectives of beginners and 
professionals. Travel, ecology, and land management 
articles will interest even the housebound. Tons of 
product reviews, columns, resource references, and 
events listings are presented with a balance of lively 
writing and expertise. —Richie Unterberger 
e 
A first attempt at boardsailing is about like balancing on a 
bongo board while repacking a parachute in a high wind, with 
maybe an enraged orangutan on your back, determined to 
drown you. No, it’s more like you're standing on a kind of 
greased ball; you simultaneously hold an unwieldy lever in- 
serted into the wind, which if you manage it correctly will 
make the ball go scooting out from under. Splunk. 
Ah, yes, the lever is the wind: the mast, anchored to the 
board by a U-joint that allows it to flop with spineless irreso- 
lution in any direction. Operation of the sail is simple. Lean it 
toward the rear of the board to steer into the wind. Lean it 
toward the front of the board to steer away from the wind. 
Lean it away from or closer to your body for balance. In- 
crease or decrease its angle to the wind for a throttle. Do 
this in gentle, subtle increments, except when wind and water 
and desperately unsure balance force you to do it in lurching 
recoveries. Splutch. 
Careful readers will notice that this means using two hands to do three things at once — in 
at least six different directions, although in practice the number of directions is infinite. Then 
there are the two feet, with which you not only maintain balance, but also help steer and 
trot around the mast to reverse direction. Helicopter pilots come to mind, muttering about 
rubbing the belly while patting the head. Four appendages working simultaneously, differently, 
appropriately, pursuing control. Master the sail while you are mastering the board. A mixed 
medium. See juggling on a unicycle, above. 
megiing 
y 
Outside Magazine. Mark Bryant, Editor. 
$14.95/year (12 issues) from PO Box 
51733, Boulder, CO 90321-1733; 
800/678-1131 
Afoot & Afloat Series 
Leisurely hikes and boat rides are restorative to the soul. This series sets an admi- 
rable standard for nature guides. Its five volumes address the practicalities of trails 
and waterways, the beauty of birds and mountains, and cultural and ecological 
e 
A nearly level hike circles the shore of 
of the summit of Mt. Constitution. A coun- 
terclockwise route around the lake is rec- 
ommended so the prime views of the 
mountain lie ahead rather than at the 
hiker’s back. 
The long summit ridge of Mt. Constitution 
rises above the lake. Little Summit can be 
Great Expeditions 
Neither strictly an ecotourism maga- 
zine nor strictly an outdoor-excursion 
magazine, Great Expeditions’ focus 
ranges from travelogs of solo adven- 
| tures to rundowns of organized 
whitewater rafting trips. It leads you 
toward nature-oriented journeys that 
are as challenging as you want (or 
don't want) them to be. No continent 
is off-limits; respect for the regions’ 
ecosystems and cultures is always 
urged. —RU 
Hidden amidst tea plantations which carpet 
nearly every slope of the Western Ghats is 
an eclectic assemblage of pristine parks and 
wildlife sanctuaries. Secluded preserves — 
with challenging names like Periyar, 
Eravikulam and Parambikulam — provide 
safe haven to abundant wildlife and blessed 
solitude for those fleeing the crowded 
coast. Periyar National Park was my first 
stop. 
Women in saris and men in their finest sa- 
rong-like dhotis travel across India to enjoy 
day cruises on pristine Lake Periyar, center- 
e 
piece of the park which bears its name. 
It took two laborious days to coax my Her- 
Boasting nearly |,000 elephants in 300 sq. 
cules one-speed bike the 4,000 feet up 
miles (800 sq. km), Periyar offers unparal- 
| (1200 m), but when | was finally above the 
leled pachyderm watching. Only a rare 
| populated coast, | realized it was worth it. 
boatload returns without sightings to glee- 
Kerala’s interior was Eden. 
fully recount. Witnessing a herd of el- 
ephants ford Lake Periyar is truly captivat- 
ing. Like grey icebergs floating with 
wrinkled snorkels, the uncommonly grace- 
ful swimmers leave hardly a wake. If there 
is an infant among them, the adults watch 
with uncompromising vigilance to insure 
junior’s safe passage. 
Few people venture beyond Lake Periyar 
into the park’s interior. Indian tourists 
seem singularly averse to exploring their 
national parks, but even if they didn’t, ad- 
ministrators discourage independent wan- 
dering. The park is a wilderness area man- 
aged exclusively for the benefit of the 
resident flora and fauna. So unless you pos- 
sess a letter of introduction from Gilbert 
Grosvenor (or can forge one) or have a 
background in wildlife biology (or can fake 
it), perseverance and patience is your only 
recourse. Coercion, as | discovered in 
Periyar, is a tactic doomed to failure. 
H goiioming Ost 
Copper. 63090 
pars’ Wl ie 
festivals ot lad." 
eh 
/ 
Great Expeditions 
Margaret J. Newbold, Editor. 
$18/year (4 issues) from PO Box 18036, 
Raleigh, NC 27619; 800/743-3639 
The author’s bicycle at 5500 feet. Kerala. 
Mountain Lake, highlighted by a unique view 
background on the region. —Richie Unterberger 
5. CASCADE CREEK TRAIL 
6 MOUNTAIN LAKE LOOP 
7. TWIN LAKES TRAIL 
8B. MT. PICKETT TRAVERSE 
9. SOUTHEAST BOUNDARY TRAIL 
11, MT. CONSTITUTION 
TO TWIN LAKES 
Je, LITTLE SUMMIT TO MOUNTAIN LAKE 
\ 
Me 
\. 
A | MT. PICKETT 
© = 
Fong dud We 
A 
‘ 
7 
| 
4 
UN 
Na ii ys 
Po 
UTTLE 
TO 
PARK. 
ENTRANCE 
seen on the left and the stone observation 
tower of the main summit far on the right. 
Below the summit precipitous |,000-foot 
cliffs show their dramatic profile. 
Look for bald and golden eagles, hawks, and 
osprey soaring the updrafts near the moun- 
tain. Four pairs of osprey are believed to 
nest in the vicinity, although others summer 
here. The same factors of population, pollu- 
tion, and pesticides that threaten bald 
eagles have severely reduced the osprey 
population. In addition, bald eagles fre- 
quently steal fish they have caught and gen- 
erally harass them, at times causing them to 
leave. Ospreys, which 
resemble small white- 
breasted eagles, favor 
the heights of Mt. 
Constitution, with its 
remote nesting sites 
and fish-filled lakes. 
Afoot & Afloat Series 
Marge & Ted Mueller. 1988, 1990 
*The San Juan Islands 
*North Puget Sound 
*South Puget Sound 
*Middle Puget Sound & Hood Canal 
$12.95 ($15.95 postpaid) each from The 
Mountaineers Books, | 101 SW Klickitat 
Way, Seattle, WA 98134; 800/553-4453 
Ortner Great Resources 
Great American Learning Adventures: 
Harriet Webster. 1994, HarperPerennial. A 
guide to over 200 educational vacations in the 
United States, with emphasis on outdoors activi- 
ties and crafts. 
World Cruising Routes: Jimmy Cornell. 1992, 
International Marine Publishing. Guide to nearly 
400 cruising routes around the world, geared to 
small-boat sailors. 
