ee 
Do-It-Yourself CDs, 
Tapes (and LPs) 
In 1987, after years of shopping around 
demo tapes to big labels looking for record 
deals, we decided to venture into record 
production. Someone told us about a place 
in Dallas, Texas — A+R Music — that 
did small-run vinyl-pressing and cassette- 
duping, dirt cheap. 
A+R proved to be inexpensive, friendly, 
and reliable. Our 500 records and 500 
cassettes looked and sounded good 
enough to get airplay and to find their way 
into local music stores. Since we caught the 
“indy” music bug, my wife —jazz singer 
Pam Bricker — has released eight music 
and audio-art projects, on tape, vinyl, and 
CD, and we have helped countless other 
musicians with their recordings, Besides 
A+R, we've used Disc Makers in Philadel- 
phia and Nimbus in Charlottesville, VA. 
A+R Music is still selling services, via a 
multitude of sales broadsides — no slick 
color catalog or “how-to” flow charts. They 
keep it simple, cheap, and basement- 
grade. A+R is the perfect place to go for 
vanity recordings, spoken art, quick-and- 
dirty recordings to shop to labels or to get 
airplay, punk rock, and local choir record- 
ings. They do CDs and tape, and they still 
press vinyl. 
Disc Makers is like an indy-music fast-food 
restaurant. They offer attractively priced 
CD/tape combination deals, with varying 
tumaround time, tape quality, and art 
amenities (two-color, full-color). In addition 
to recordings, they produce album art, pro- 
motional materials, and company logos. 
While we've been happy with our Disc 
Makers projects, we have heard some 
hard-luck stories. The bottom line seems to 
be that Disc Makers is the place to go if 
you need it fast, with professional-looking 
artwork, and you're not too picky about 
cassette quality (no one has complained 
about their CD quality). 
Disc Makers’ catalog has lots of cover de- 
sign ideas and useful general information 
on the duplicating process. They also have 
three free booklets available: “Guide to 
Master Tape Preparation,” “Guide to Inde- 
pendent Music Publicity,” and “Directory of 
Independent Music Distributors.” 
The CD-Recordable Bible 
For those who are just getting started 
in CD-R, this very useful primer covers 
basic terms, standards and proce- 
dures, how to select a CD-R system, 
and how to create discs. It also in- 
cludes a series of articles, reprinted 
from CD-ROM Professional magazine, 
that evaluate available software and 
hardware, —GB 
e 
The CD-R platform includes 
the following items: 
* Personal computer * Compact 
disc recorder * Authoring 
software (optional) * 
Premastering/ 
mastering 
software * 
Blank 
media 
(be 
ftp.cdrom.com: /pub/ 
Nimbus Manufacturing represents the 
“high end” of the CD duplicators. They are 
known for quality and for their long- 
standing eminence in the industry. Their 
prices are higher than either A+R's or Disc 
Makers’ and they charge separately for 
graphic services. Their catalog comes with 
acetate overlays that can help you in de- 
signing package and label art. Nimbus also 
offers CD-ROM duplication. Their CD- 
ROM Replication Guide comes with a nifty 
clear CD-ROM disc that makes a useful 
design aid and serves as an attractive 
coaster! —Gareth Branwyn 
e 
Special Radio & Promo Packages 
(Under 10 minutes/side) 
100 12" Records - $575.00 
500 12" Records - $950.00 
Includes: Reference Acetate * Mastering * 
Stampers * Pure Vinyl Pressing * Label 
Typeset * Label Proof * One Color Printed 
Label * White Die-Cut Jacket with Shrink 
Wrap. —A&R 
e 
Our Best Seller! 500 Full-Color CDs plus 
500 Chrome Cassettes for only $3,490 
with four-page CD folder. —Disc Makers 
e 
Disadvantages: Few and Tolerable 
Reading from a CD-ROM is considerably 
slower than a hard disk, as much as ten 
times slower, but how many 600MB hard 
drives can you get for $20 apiece? 
e 
Regardless of the technical capabilities of 
the hardware, it’s the premastering/master- 
ing software that links the computer to the 
CD recorder. Functionality and ease-of-use 
depend heavily upon this link. 
Check out these Usenet newsgroups: 
alt.cd-rom, comp.multimedia, 
comp.publish.cdrom.hardware, 
comp.publish.cdrom.software, 
comp, publish.cdrom.multimedia 
There is also an informative 
by anonymous ftp from: 
Other Helpful Hints 
* When using halftone images, for best re- 
sults stay within the 20% to 80% dot range. 
+ For computer-generated film we recom- 
mend using 2400 or higher dpi for screens, 
blends or graduations, as well as 4-color 
process work. This will help to avoid band- 
ing, or moiré patterns. 
* If you intend to overprint colors, remem- 
ber that some light colors change when 
printed over a dark background. For the 
best results use a light background color, 
with a darker foreground color. —Nimbus 
A+R Record & Tape Mfg: Product in- 
formation: 902 Industrial Boulevard, Dallas, 
TX 75207; 800/527-DISC, fax 214/741-7310. 
Disc Makers: Free catalogs and booklets: 
1328 N. 4th Street, Philadelphia, PA 19122; 
800/468-9353, fax 215/236-7763. 
Nimbus Manufacturing: Free CD-Audio 
and CD-ROM catalogs: SR Guildford Farm, 
Ruckersville, VA 22968; 800/782-0778. 
The D-Recordable 
Bible 
The 
CD-Recordable 
Bible 
(An Essential Guide for Any Business) 
Ash Pahwa. Eight Bit Books, 1994; 185 pp. 
ISBN 0-910965-1 1-0 
$24.95 ($27.95 postpaid). Online, Inc., 462 
Danbury Road, Wilton, CT 06897; 800/248-8466 
by Ash Pahwa, phd. 
Communications 
DO-IT-YOURSELF CD/CD-ROM 
CD-ROM Replication 
CD technology has become cheap enough 
that individuals can use the medium to 
store or distribute all kinds of digital data. 
You can send your project to a replication 
house for multiple copies, get a “one-off” 
done at a CD-R (compact disk-recordable) 
service bureau, or buy a CD-R deck and 
roll your own. 
The One-Off CD Shop is a growing little 
franchise of CD-ROM service bureaus. 
They offer CD-R one-offs, mass replication, 
and consulting services. They are also au- 
thorized retailers of Philips, Sony, and 
Yamaha CD-recorders. 
Disc Manufacturing, Inc. produces excel- 
lent, free technical publications. They in- 
clude “Compact Disc Terminology,” “A 
Glossary of CD And CD-ROM Terms,” and 
“An Overview To Multimedia CD-ROM 
Production.” Disc Manufacturing also offers 
full replication services. —GB 
e 
When a CD has data (CD-ROM) and audio 
(CD-DA) tracks, it is referred to as a 
Mixed Mode disc. 
The most common type of Mixed Mode 
disc is one where the Ist track on the disc 
is Yellow Book, CD-ROM Mode |, and the 
Red Book, normal audio tracks. —’Com- 
pact Disc Terminology” 
e 
Frame rates for computer generated anima- 
tions are lower than video. A rate of |0- 
| 5fps is generally accepted as high quality. 
For computer generated graphics, an ani- 
mation program is frequently used to move 
painted objects from one part of the screen 
. to another. A simple way of creating mo- 
tion is Slide-show motion. Slide-show mo- 
tion is the rapid display of images to the 
monitor. Storing long sequences of motion 
in Slide-show fashion requires a lot of stor- 
age space and produces slow play back 
speeds. —An Overview to Multimedia 
CD-ROM Production” 
One-Off CD Shops: call 800/387-1633 for 
information. 
Disc Manufacturing, Inc.: Free technical 
papers. 1409 Faulk Road, Suite 103, 
Wilmington, DE 19803; 800/433-DISC. 
Learn Media Literacy 
on page 220. 
i 
i 
: i 
