hs 
How fo Use GIS in Electoral Politics 
ILL CLINTON’S 1992 CAMPAIGN strategy fo- 
Political Tools 
GIS AS A POLITICAL TOOL 
See also GIS, 
p. 14 and 
Ecoactivism, 
p. 109. 
cused on states where large numbers of “Reagan 
| 
: 
= 
Democrats” had split their tickets in past elec- 
POLITICAL REDISTRICTING 
5 
Cece | |Oa Gi, 
tions, sending a 
Republican to the White House 
seh 
tty ed ee on me 
Bere aie 
~ Fercent Block 
and Democrats to Congress and to state and 
local offices. Enhanced by geographic information sys- 
tems, this geographic targeting was successful in thirty 
| 
of thirty-one such states. 
During the heat of a political campaign, enormous 
amounts of data have to be quickly assimilated to 
develop responsive strategy, especially when a race is 
tight or contentious. “The challenge was to find a way 
to analyze the information we received from a variety 
of sources each day,” noted Clinton technology strat- 
egist Janet Handal. Handal and her co-workers used 
AtlasPro and AtlasGIS software products from Strate- 
gic Mapping, Inc. (SMI), Santa Clara, California. 
The late Paul Tully, former political director of the 
Democratic National Committee, was an early evange- 
list for the use of mapping technology. When he 
unexpectedly died during the campaign, Handal took 
over as Clinton’s chief mapmaker. 
During the campaign, strategists pored over maps 
showing media market information, past voting pat- 
terns, and the latest polling data. They used maps to 
chart trends, to decide where to send their candidates 
and to recruit volunteers. The ability to quickly display 
a variety of information was key to being responsive. 
GIS was used at the highest levels of the campaign to 
determine the number of TV ads to buy in a specific 
market. Area of dominant influence (ADI) boundaries 
used to identify TV markets generally don’t follow 
nicely segmented political boundaries. 
However, it’s 
these political boundaries that are used to summarize 
voting statistics. Without GIS, there’s no way to quickly 
and effectively put these two kinds of data together. 
According to SMI’s Sarah Lathrop, who provided tech- 
nical support to the campaign, Handal developed hybrid 
AD\I/political-jurisdiction boundaries that allowed her 
to do just that. 
Eric Hawkins, deputy director of the National Commit- 
tee for an Effective Congress, 
a Democratic political- 
action committee, believes that GIS allowed the 
Clinton campaign to make targeted TV buys while the 
Bush campaign wasted money ona 
buckshot approach. 
Rick Bloomingdale is the campaign’s national deputy 
political director responsible for securing union en- 
L 
dorsements and enlisting volunteers from organized 
Figure |. Both the Democratic and Republican parties used GIS during redistrict- 
ing that followed the 1990 census, to locate key data such as block groups. 
Figure 2. Recruiting volunteers is an important task in any political cam- 
labor. He knew there were heavy concentrations of 
paign. Mapping the location of possible volunteers and their proximity to 
steel workers around Gary, Indiana, but couldn’t tell 
potential rally sites is easily accomplished using GIS. 
from AFL-CIO data that many steel workers were 
located across a broad belt of southern Missouri and 
Illinois. 
“Just looking at this information in tabular form for the 
separate states, we wouldn’t have made the connection,” Bloomingdale 
explained. “When we displayed the data on a map, it was instantly apparent 
there were people we wanted to reach in regions no database could have 
identified. Looking at the information visually brought it to life.” That last 
phrase should sound familiar to anyone who's been involved in GIS for any 
length of time. 
While the Clinton campaign is the first national campaign to make extensive 
use of this technology, GIS and politics are not strangers. A Reagan campaign 
consultant made limited use of the technology as far back as 1980. For 
example, in Boston, Dual Independent Map Encoding files and demographics 
were used to categorize the voters by zip code. A campaign letter was then 
customized with specific paragraphs focusing on the likely concerns of a 
particular voting group. 
Both Republican and Democratic congressional committees used GIS to 
support redistricting efforts that followed the 1990 census, as did many states 
(figure 1). In fact, it was probably the Republicans’ use of GIS during 
redistricting that allowed them to do 
as well as they did at the state level in 
the last election. 
According to at least one software 
vendor, the Perot campaign in 1992 
also analyzed the possibility of using 
GIS. The software application they 
considered using focused on recruit- 
ing and effectively using volunteers 
(figure 2). —Nora Sherwood Bryan 
Abridged from an article titled “GIS Helps Pro- 
duce Clinton’s Victory.” Reprinted with permis- 
sion from Business Geographics, March/April 
1993. Copyright GIS World, Inc., 155 E. Board- 
walk Drive, Suite 250, Fort Collins, CO 80525. 
GIS and Ecoactivism 
| Politics 
is about advocacy and | 
| persuasion — convincing people to 
support your legislation or 
candidate. And seeing is still 
| 
believing: 
if you can show 
people what you are talking 
about, you can amplify your 
influence. Because GIS uses 
maps and map overlays to 
help people visualize geo- 
| 
graphic databases, it can be 
used as a dramatic means of 
persuasion. Environmental 
activism 
is one 
political 
battle where GIS systems 
are becoming increasingly 
important. 
Eric and Steve Beckwitt of 
the Sierran Biodiversity |In- 
stitute succeeded 
in influ- 
encing the U.S. Congress to 
preserve some of the re- 
maining old-growth forests 
by using GIS to demonstrate 
how little is left, and how 
| 
important 
it 
is. 
The 
Institute’s six billion-byte da- 
tabase includes ancient and 
modern maps of remaining 
forests, watershed informa- 
tion, survey information, | 
geological data, species data, 
| 
and other information 
rel- 
evant to the endangered re- 
gion. Their multimedia show 
| 
before the House of Repre- 
sentatives demonstrated the 
importance, 
fragility, and 
extent 
of 
endangered 
biodiversity 
in the Sierran 
| 
region. 
Urban 
political advocates 
and activists can make use of 
GIS to detect and demon- 
strate redlining — illegal and 
racist financial discrimina- 
tion. Historic preservation- 
| 
ists and urban ecologists will 
also find GIS useful for local 
political planning and advo- 
cacy as the price of the hard- 
ware and software becomes 
more affordable. —HLR 
293 
