68 
Sustainability 
RESTORATIVE ECONOMICS 
The Ecology of Commerce 
: 
Markets, left to themselves, can be- 
come amoral and impersonal, adver- 
tising prices without values, boasting 
eternal life, singing extravagant claims 
that markets are “good” in and of 
themselves. This thoughtless market is 
an addiction, hooking humans into a 
nightmare circle of production/con- 
sumption. All other market impacts 
are dismissed as “externalities” and 
“temporary economic dislocations.” 
Paul Hawken, in a tone remarkably 
calm and with a firmness remarkably 
gentle, provides the foundations for 
the only possible hope: managing 
commerce to benefit human welfare 
and to restore the biological productiv- 
ity of the Earth. The Ecology of Com- 
merce is the most important contem- 
plative book on sustainability in the 
Catalog. Almost all the other books 
start from his percepts and must 
search for the skillful means to accom- 
plish Paul's ideals. —Peter Warshall 
e 
Globalization makes it easier to shift money 
rapidly around the globe, leveling out interest 
rates, introducing competition between an 
AA-rated bond in New Delhi and an instru- 
ment of like quality in London or Mexico. 
Money can seek its “highest and best” return 
instantaneously from around the globe, and it 
has round-the-clock liquidity. Money thus acts 
as a self-propelled force, ostensibly in the 
hands of institutions and fiduciaries but, prac- 
tically speaking, in the control of a pro- 
grammed calculus that constantly reevaluates 
where it can find the greatest return, in the 
form of currencies, interest, or equity, or a 
combination of the three. 
By making the entire world economic sys- 
tem exchangeable on a moment's notice, 
we have in essence set up a new standard 
against which all economic activity is mea- 
sured. We have created a common global 
value system that is measured in monetary 
terms alone, one that has little or nothing 
to do with the search for a sustainable fu- 
ture that will support human civilization. 
What should the world earn on its money? 
Seven percent? Five percent? Nine percent? 
The World Bank uses a discount rate of 
ten percent, which means that when evalu- 
ating any project, one dollar’s worth of en- 
vironmental value fifty years out in time is 
given an equivalent value of | cent today. 
e 
This book proposes three approaches, all 
guided by the example of nature. The first 
is to obey the waste-equals-food principle 
and entirely eliminate waste from our in- 
dustrial production. This not only saves re- 
sources outright, but it rearranges our rela- 
tionship to resources from a linear to a 
cyclical one, greatly enhancing our ability to 
lead prosperous lives while reducing envi- 
ronmental degradation. 
The second principle is to change from an 
economy based on carbon to one based on 
hydrogen and sunshine. This is primarily 
achieved by reversing the historical incentives 
— 
The 
Commerce 
Feology of 
The Ecology of Commerce 
(A Declaration of Sustainability) 
Paul Hawken. HarperBusiness, 1993; 
250 pp. ISBN 0-088730-655-| 
$23 ($25.75 postpaid) from HarperCollins 
Publishers/Direct Mail, PO Box 588, 
Dunmore, PA 18512; 800/331-3761 
surrounding the production and consumption 
of energy, away from the cheapest combus- 
tion towards the most enduring production. 
Third, we must create systems of feedback 
and accountability that support and 
strengthen restorative behavior, whether 
they are in resource utilities, green fees on 
agricultural chemicals, or reliance on local 
production and distribution. Conversely, 
we have to look at how our present eco- 
nomic system consistently rewards short- 
term exploitation while penalizing long- 
term restoration, and then eliminate the 
ill-placed incentives that allow small sectors 
of the population to benefit at the expense 
of the whole. 
A restorative economy is not going to lead a 
life of dulling comfort and convenience. We 
have to recognize that we've reached a wa- 
tershed in the economy, a point at which 
“growth” and profitability will be increasingly 
derived from the abatement of environmen- 
tal degradation, the furthering of ecological 
restoration, and the mimicking of natural 
systems of production and consumption. 
How Much Is Enough? 
To population control and taming 
technology we must add a third urgent 
necessity: consumption control. While 
this book is a bit shrill, it is also the 
only book that compares the use of 
materials and energy in the North and 
the South and asks: Is there enough 
for all of us to live like Americans? Are 
we promoting two-car and two-thou- 
sand-square-foot home dreams that 
will wreck the planet? How do we re- 
leam to truly value the materials of 
material wealth? —PW 
e 
Meat Consumption per Capita, 
Selected Countries, 1990 
Country 
Meat * 
(kilograms) 
United States 
112 
France 
9| 
Argentina 
82 
Soviet Union 
70 
Brazil 
47 
Japan 
4| 
Mexico 
40 
China 
24 
Turkey 
16 
Philippines 
16 
Egypt 
14 
India 
2 
* Beef, veal, pork, lamb, mutton, goat 
and poultry in carcass weight equivalents. 
Poultry figures are for 1989. 
e 
Germans alone throw away 5 million house- 
hold appliances year, and Americans toss 7.5 
million television sets. Only one fourth of 
the 280 million tires Americans throw out 
each year are recycled or retreaded. 
Where disposability and planned obsoles- 
cence fail to accelerate the trip from cash 
register to junk heap, fashion sometimes 
succeeds. Oscar Wilde once asked, “What 
is fashion? . . . It is usually a form of ugliness 
so intolerable that we have to alter it every 
six months.” 
How Much Is Enough? 
(The Consumer Society 
and the Future of the Earth) 
Alan Durning. Worldwatch Environmental 
Alert Series, 1992; 200 pp. 
ISBN 0-393-30891-X 
$8.95 postpaid from W.W. Norton & Co./ 
Order Dept., 800 Keystone Industrial Park, 
Scranton, PA 18512; 800/233-4830 
See 
Boycott 
Quarterly, 
p. 303. 
Mortgaging the Earth 
It's time to let go of our favorite plati- 
tude: Think globally, act locally. It con- 
stricts necessary action, especially 
moral reform of the globalists. Do it 
all! Act globally, think locally. Act locally 
and globally. Think globally and locally. 
Mortgaging the Earth tells this new- 
style success story: Networking war- 
niors join Brazilian peasants to other 
global helpers, strategizing in a dozen 
planetary locales to save a rainforest 
and provide for sustainable jobs. 
Bruce Rich is the most intelligent and 
persuasive voice for a new global civil 
society — where civilians actually have 
a say in the financial structuring of their 
lives. His critique of the World Bank 
needs to be force-fed to all globalists 
and assigned as required reading in 
all government and educational institu- 
tions concemed with the future of the 
planet. It's hard to plow through the 
| 
first chapter of World Bank stupidity 
and disasters — the story borders on 
being Kafkaesque. But, continue and 
you find a clear and most moral 
analysis of the World Bank's history 
Stop Perverse Incentives 
Finances that are counter-productive and 
encourage behavior that despoils the Earth 
and its human cultures are called perverse 
incentives. Here are three groups on the 
front line — wamiors fighting financial per- 
versity and promoting positive incentives 
for conservation-based development. 
BankCheck: Juliette Majot, Editor. $25/ 
year (4 issues) from BankCheck, c/o Inter- 
national Rivers Network, | 847 Berkeley 
Way, Berkeley, CA 94703; 510/848-1155. 
The pit bulls at the World Bank's gates. The 
only critical newsletter. 
Institute for Agricultural Trade Policy (/ATP): 
313 5th Street SE, Minneapolis, MN 55414; 
612/379-5980. It may not sound muscular, 
but this institute cares for small farmers 
throughout the globe. Monitors the impact 
of NAFTA and GATT and other trade on the 
actual lives of real souls. 
They lobby heavy. 
and, even better, of sustainable 
compassionate finance. — PW 
e 
The World Bank lends about $24 billion a 
year to more than a hundred countries to 
support economic development projects 
and programs, the total cost of which is 
over $70 billion annually. It manages a port- 
folio of outstanding loans totaling $140 bil- 
lion, financing development schemes total- 
ing over a third of a trillion dollars. The 
World Bank operates on a larger scale than 
any of the other so-called public interna- 
tional financial institutions. 
e 
The report noted that the Bank had re- 
fused to lend to the democratically elected 
Goulart government in Brazil in the early 
1960s, but following the 1964 military coup 
(which installed a twenty-year military dic- 
tatorship), lending rose from zero to aver- 
age $73 million a year for the rest of the 
1960s and reached levels of nearly half a 
billion dollars a year by the mid-1970s. 
Chile under the democratically elected re- 
gime of Allende received no Bank loans but 
following the Pinochet coup in 1973 the 
country suddenly became creditworthy, de- 
spite a worsening economic situation. Indo- 
nesia under Sukarno — an autocrat, but at 
least a civilian — received no World Bank 
loans; Sukarno was overthrown by an ex- 
traordinarily bloody military uprising in 
1965, which included the mass murder of 
more than half a million alleged commu- 
nists, many of whom in fact were ethnic 
Chinese. The Bank approved its first loans 
to Indonesia in late 1968, and McNamara 
made increased lending to General 
Suharto’s regime a priority in the 1970s, 
reaching levels of $600 to $700 million an- 
nually by the end of the decade. The report 
noted that “fifteen of the world’s most re- 
pressive governments will receive $2.9 bil- 
lion in World Bank loans in fiscal 1979,” 
about a third of the Bank’s entire proposed 
new loan commitments for that year. Presi- 
dent Carter and Congress had cut off all 
U.S. aid for four of the fifteen — Argentina, 
Chile, Uruguay, and Ethiopia — for flagrant 
human rights violations. 
Mortgaging the Earth 
(The World Bank, Environmental 
Improvement, and the Crisis of Development) 
Bruce Rich. 1993; 376 pp. 
ISBN 0-8070-4704-X 
$30 ($33.75 postpaid) from Beacon Press, 
25 Beacon Street, Boston, MA 02108; 
617/742-2110 
