The Gnostic Gospels * The Gnostic Scriptures 
Elaine Pagels’ Gnostic Gospels was 
the first book to make the early 
Christian Gnostics come alive for 
modern readers, and it remains unsur- 
passed as a readable introduction to 
these heretics’ ideas and scriptures. 
The Gnostics valued mystical exper- 
ence above doctrinal fidelity, fashioned 
alternate creation myths and gospels 
that the early Roman church did their 
best to stamp out, and raised the 
feminine figure of Sophia (Wisdom) 
to a stature nearly equal with Christ's. 
The 1945 discovery, at Nag 
Hammadi, Egypt, of a cache of 
Gnostic scriptures dating from 350- 
400 A.D. has given us a far more 
solid glimpse of Gnostic myths than 
previously available, and Dr. Pagels 
excels at puzzling out their implica- 
tions for our present understanding 
of Christianity. 
As for the Gnostic scriptures them- 
selves, several translations have been 
made, ranging from the careful schol- 
arship of the team headed by Dr. 
James Robinson to more pop render- 
ings of the Gospel of Thomas, the 
most famous of the Gnostic texts. 
Bentley Layton’s translation and anno- 
tation of the Gnostic scriptures (which 
includes not only the Nag Hammadi 
texts, but related ones from other 
sources as well) has my vote as the 
single best volume for the lay reader. 
Layton’s lucid translations are supple- 
mented with very helpful introductions, 
background details, explanatory anno- 
tations, and maps. Layton is of no less 
scholarly standing than other transla- 
tors, but he has brought the material 
to life far better than most. —JK 
e 
The controversy over resurrection, then, 
proved critical in shaping the Christian 
movement into an institutional religion. 
All Christians agreed in principle that only 
Christ himself — or God — can be the 
ultimate source of spiritual authority. But 
the immediate question, of course, was 
the practical one: Who, in the present, 
administers that authority? 
Valentinus and his followers answered: 
Whoever comes into direct, personal con- 
tact with the “living One.” They argued that 
only one’s own experience offers the ulti- 
mate criterion of truth, taking precedence 
over all secondhand testimony and all 
tradition — even gnostic tradition! They 
celebrated every form of creative invention 
as evidence that a person has become spiri- 
tually alive. On this theory, the structure of 
authority can never be fixed into an institu- 
tional framework — it must remain 
spontaneous, charismatic, and open. 
— The Gnostic Gospels 
e 
The disciples tell Jesus what he resembles. 
Jesus said to his disciples, “Compare me to 
something and tell me what | resemble.” 
Quite recently, a Middle Eastern friend of 
mine presented an astonished barrow- 
pushing scrap collector with a shilling in a 
London street. The man had been repeat- 
ing, with fervor, in that plaintive tone of the 
hawker, “Any old iron?” The way in which 
he drew out the sounds was for my friend 
indistinguishable from the mendicant der- 
vish cry of O Imam Reza! which shouting 
dervishes repeat hundreds of times a day 
as a pious invocation, heard by all in some 
areas. 
e 
The false teacher will pay great attention to 
appearance, and will know how to make 
the Seeker think that he is a great man, that 
he understands him, that he has great se- 
crets to reveal. The Sufi has secrets, but he 
must make them develop within the dis- 
ciple. Sufism is something which happens to 
a person, not something which is given to 
him. The false teacher will keep his follow- 
ers around him all the time, will not tell 
them that they are being given a training 
which must end as soon as possible, so that 
they may taste their development them- 
selves and carry on as fulfilled people. 
The Islanders. Sufic illustrative 
calligraphy, in the hand of 
“Mohamed, Son of 
Shafig, 1291,” of the 
Mevlevi 
(“Dancing”) Dervishes. 
The image of a ship with 
people standing in it 
is apparent. 
Rumi calls upon the scholastic, the theolo- 
gian, and the follower of the false teacher: 
“When will you cease to worship and to 
love the pitcher? When will you begin to 
look for the water?” Externals are the 
things which people usually judge by. 
“Know the difference between the color of 
the wine and the color of the glass.” 
‘S 
2 
¢ 
35 
= 
S 
Fi # 
The Sufis 
Idries Shah. Doubleday & Co., 1964, 1971; 
451 pp. ISBN 0-385-07966-4 
$9.95 ($12.45 postpaid) from Bantam, 
Doubleday, Dell/Fulfillment Dept., 
2451 S. Wolf Road, Des Plaines, IL 60018; 
800/223-6834 
Simon Peter said to him, “A just angel is 
what you resemble.” 
Matthew said to him, “An intelligent phi- 
losopher is what you resemble.” 
Thomas said to him, “Teacher, my mouth 
utterly will not let me say what you re- 
semble.” 
Jesus said, “I am not your (sing.) teacher, 
for you have drunk and become intoxicated 
from the bubbling wellspring that | have 
personally measured out.” And he took 
him, withdrew, and said three sayings to 
him. 
Now, when Thomas came to his compan- 
ions they asked him, “What did Jesus say to 
you?” 
Thomas said to them, “If | say to you (plur.) 
one of the sayings that he said to me, you 
will take stones and stone me, and fire will 
come out of the stones and burn you up.” 
—The Gnostic Scriptures 
Whole Systems 
SPIRITUALITY 
The Gnostic Gospels 
Elaine Pagels. 1989; 182 pp. 
ISBN 0-679-72453-2 
$9 ($11 postpaid) from Random House/ 
Order Dept., 400 Hahn Road, Westminster, 
MD 21157; 800/733-3000 
The Gnostic Scriptures 
(A New Translation with Annotations) 
Bentley Layton. Doubleday & Co., 1987; 
ISBN 0-385-17447-0 
$35 ($37.50 postpaid) from Bantam, 
Doubleday, Dell/Fulfillment Dept., 
2451 S. Wolf Road, Des Plaines, IL 60018; 
800/223-6834 
The Thirteen-Petalled Rose 
Seekers groping for a spiritual path 
sometimes feel the need to return to 
their roots. Those seeking an introduc- 
tion to the deeper dimensions of 
Judaism might want to read this work 
by Rabbi Adin Steinsaltz. 
Steinsaltz, a noted Talmudic scholar, is 
coming from an Orthodox perspective, 
which at times may seem stringent to 
those accustomed to more modern 
perspectives on Judaism. Steinsaltz's 
vision is based on the Kabbalah, the 
esoteric tradition that forms the inner- 
most core of Judaism. The Kabbalah 
teaches that in addition to the mate- 
rial realm we live in, other, unseen 
worlds resonate with this one, and are 
subtly affected by our thoughts and 
actions here. Living in accordance with 
Torah, the Law that underpins Jewish 
life and activity (Steinsaltz says), brings 
| greater harmony between the visible 
and invisible realms. —Richard Smoley 
e 
A basic idea underlying Jewish life is that 
there are no special frameworks for holi- 
ness. A man’s relation to God is not set 
apart on a higher plane, not relegated to 
some special corner of time and place with 
all the rest of life taking place somewhere 
else. The Jewish attitude is that life in all its 
aspects, in its totality, must somehow or 
other be bound up with holiness. This atti- 
tude is expressed in part through conscious 
action: that is, through the utterance of 
prescribed prayers and blessings and fol- 
lowing prescribed forms of conduct; and, in 
part, by adhering to a number of prohibi- 
tions. 
Man generally passes through the world 
aware that it is full of possible colors and 
meanings; and he tries to make his own 
connection with all its many possibilities. 
What he may be less aware of is the fact 
that there are worlds upon worlds, besides 
the one he knows, dependent on his ac- 
tions. In Judaism man is conceived, in all the 
power of his body and soul, as the central 
agent, the chief actor on a cosmic stage; he 
functions, or performs, as a prime mover of 
worlds, being made in the image of the 
Creator. Everything he does consti- 
tutes an act of creation, both in his 
own life and in other worlds hidden 
from his sight. Every single particle 
of his body and every nuance of his 
| 
thought and feeling are connected 
with forces of all kinds in the cos- 
| 
mos, forces without number; so that 
the more conscious he is of this or- 
der of things, the more significantly 
does he function as a Jewish person. 
oadin Seansslt 
The Thirteen- 
Petalled Rose 
Adin Steinsaltz. Basic Books, 1985; 
181 pp. ISBN 0-465-08561-X 
$12 ($14.75 postpaid) from 
HarperCollins Publishers/Direct Mail, 
PO Box 588, Dunmore, PA 18512; 
800/331-3761 
LAAN 
EZ, 
33 
