Learning 
KREATIVE KID SOFTWARE 
ar 
MIND GYMNASTICS FOR CiDS 
E’VE been through three years of software testing at our house, and it 
is clear that if it isn’t fun, the software’s other virtues don’t count. The 
first big test is whether Mamie will try a program more than once. When 
she prefers playing with the program to an opportunity to watch television, 
the software passes the next hurdle. If she’s still using the software a year later, 
it's worth recommending. Mamie reviewed Kid Pix in 1991, when she was six 
and a half; she still uses it, although she’s added Dabbler to her art tool file. If 
your favorite small person is old enough to have the dexterity to control a 
computer mouse, a computer color paintbox can provide instant fascination 
—anda 
real sense of mastery that is hard to find in other fine motor activities 
at age six. Mamie used Mavis Beacon to teach herself to type at age eight and 
a half. She reviewed Travelrama CD-ROM in 1994, when she was nine. 
A of the software here is fun. Most of it also gives the young user a means 
of expressing his or her own creativity: drawing tools, typing tools, 
writing tools, logical puzzles. A computer is no substitute for a sunny day in 
spring, or the feel and smell of clay or old-fashioned crayons, but the right 
kind of software can be as useful and enchanting as a magical brush or a 
kid-size writing machine. These are the tools our children will be using in the 
next century, and the technology inside these boxes threatens to grow 
fearsomely powerful over the coming decades; if the generation that is 
going to come of age in the first decades of the twenty-first century is going 
to start messing with these machines now, they might as well start out by trying 
to create something beautiful. —HLR 
| 
Mavis Beacon Teaches Typing 
Mavis Beacon Teaches Typing: 
Information from Software Toolworks; 
| Even little kids can leam how to type. 
415/883-5157 
| Typing makes it a lot easier to write 
| books and articles and letters and to 
| play games and to use computers and 
| to write homework for school. Mavis 
| Beacon Teaches Typing helped me 
leam how to type without looking at 
the keyboard. The program shows a 
| Keyboard up on the screen and which 
| finger to move. When you get better, 
you go to the next level where you 
don't have a keyboard on the screen, 
SO you have to just do it by feel, If you 
miss a word it puts a little X under it 
and you can go on to the next word 
When you get better, there are races 
and speed limits and different games 
you can play. And the more you play 
the games, the better you learn to 
type! In one week, | leamed how to 
an hour every day. Now I’m in the 
fourth grade and | can type all my 
homework, —Mamie Rheingold 
The Even More Incredible Machine 
When you find a way to fit the parts 
together so the whole thing works, you 
can pop a balloon or fire a cannonball 
or turn on a light. Then you get to go 
to a new level. The levels seem never 
ending, and that feels better than do- 
ing the same game over and over. 
Once you get really good at it, you can 
make up your own puzzles. 
— Mamie 
| love to see how things work and 
solve problems. The Even More Incred- 
| ible Machine makes me think and 
tinker until | can make each machine 
and move to the next level. Each level 
gives you a list of parts like pulleys, 
gears, bouncing balls, springs, wind- 
| mills, wires, pipes, faucets, batteries, 
motors, that you can drag around and 
fit together like an animated puzzle. 
touch type. | practiced for about a half | 
Kid Pix 
| like Kid Pix even better than the 
grown-up drawing programs because 
it has lots of noises and it’s fun to ex- 
periment with all the different goodies. 
It's more fun to play with than 
Nintendo because | can make up my 
own stuff. | can explore the menus 
and always find new things to play 
with. The stamp pad is neat. | can 
make my own stamps. If | 
hold down 
the shift key, | can make things bigger. 
My dad showed me how to put my 
own voice in the drawings, too, so | 
can make up picture stories that talk 
and sound like me. There are different 
pens and pencils and erasers. | like 
the eraser that goes BOOM and the 
eraser that shows you a secret picture. 
And sometimes | make my own color- 
ing book by printing my drawings and 
Kid Pix 2: Macintosh: System 6, |MB RAM 
(mono), 2MB (color); System 7, 2MB 
(mono), 4MB (color). Windows: 386 or 
later, 2MB RAM, 3 1/2" high-density disks. 
$39.95 ($43.95 postpaid). Broderbund Soft- 
ware/Customer Service, PO Box 6125, 
Novato, CA 94948-6125; 800/521-6263. 
coloring them with crayons, 
—Mamie (age nine) 
(Note from Mamie's dad: We all love 
this software. It's a very well-designed 
product; it even has a Small Kids Mod- 
ule that makes it impossible for a very 
young explorer to do naughty things to 
your own files. Mamie plays with it for 
hours, and sometimes | sit down and 
doodle with it and record a secret 
message when Mamie is asleep. In 
the moming, she sees a new drawing 
on the screen and plays the sounds. 
—HLR) 
The Writing Center 
This is really neat writing software. 
You can choose what kind of 
font you 
want. You can even have a secret 
language or make the letters bigger 
or smaller. There are two hundred pic- 
tures you can use and you can change 
their size, too. If you use the spell 
checker, it will show you the words you 
The Writing Center: Macintosh: IMB RAM; 
System 7, 2MB RAM. $89.95 ($92.95 postpaid). 
The Learning Company, 6493 Kaiser Drive, 
Fremont, CA 94555; 800/852-2255. 
misspelled and you can change It. This | 
is much easier than an adult wnting 
program. I've used it for letters, 
reports, and for writing this review 
—Mamie 
The Even More Incredible Machine: 
Macintosh System 6.0.7 or later, 4MB RAM 
for color. DOS 386X or later, 640K 
memory, VGA. Windows 3.1, 386X or 
later, 20 MHz, 2MB RAM for 26-color, 4MB 
RAM for 256-color. $34.95 ($38.95 post- 
paid). Sierra Online, PO Box 53250, Bellvue, 
WA 98015-3250; 800/326-6654. 
U 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
S File 
Edit 
Effects 
Options 
Drawer 
= 
) 
| 
TS /|> 
er | 
Dabbler 
This program lets your artistic ability go wild! 
You can use virtual pens, paintbrushes, spray 
paints, crayons, and they really look like they 
do in real life. If you want to change the tool or 
color you just open the drawer above it and 
click on a new one. Dabbler is not for technical 
drawing but it is terrific for anyone who wants 
to dabble or doodle. 
—Shannon Hottinger (age eleven) 
Dabbler: Macintosh System 6.05 or later 
(32-bit Quickdraw), 13" monitor or larger, 4MB RAM. 
$99 ($106 postpaid). Fractal Design, PO Box 2380, 
Aptos, CA 95001; 800/647-7443. 
Ortner Great Creativity Toots 
For Kips 
Print Shop Deluxe: Broderbund. Kids love to 
make specialized birthday cards, Posters and 
banners for school, and with a 
little writing and 
drawing, they can Put together their own news- 
Papers. Print Shop Deluxe, with j 
image banks, and whimsical fon 
page design fun, 
ts templates, 
ts, makes creative 
EasyBook: Chickadee Software, HCR62, Box 
449, Center Harbor, NH 03226, Just as Kid Pix 
'S a small-person-sized computer illustration 
tool, and The Writing Center is a kid-scale word 
Processing program, EasyBook is a simple, fun 
page lay out and design tool. The software in- 
cludes its own painting and word processing 
tools that enable kids to write, illustrate, design, 
lay out, and print their own books. 
