Agricultural Resources 
Pit o 
See How 
to Use 
the 
Internet 
(p.265.) 
Michael 
Ableman 
market and the nature of electronic information. 
Most of the for-profit ventures have failed or are struggling. However, a number of —— a 
government-sponsored efforts, mostly at the state level, are beginning to take hold. 
Initially most of the systems offered market information (almost always about 
commodity markets) or weather. Now a much wider variety of information 
resources is available on-line. EcoNet and the Well offer conferences on agricul- 
tural topics, and regional services are popping up all over. —DK 
ver the last ten years there have been numerous attempts, 
some successful and some not, to use electronic systems to deliver information to 
farmers and others in agriculture. Farmers have been slow to adopt computer 
technology; more importantly, some of these services have misunderstood the 
A Guide to Agriculture on Internet 
A great self-study guide to retrieving 
agricultural information using the basic 
services offered by Internet. Clearly 
written, it provides step-by-step in- 
structions, lots of explanatory material 
and definitions of terms. The author in- 
cludes a good quick-reference section, 
extensive lists of user groups and 
other resources, and an instructor's 
and student's guide complete with 
lessons and quizzes, —DK 
e 
Internet is vast and you will get lost. A 
clearly defined objective is essential to guide 
your information retrieval efforts. On the 
other hand, you will probably find that your 
questions will change as you come upon new 
pieces of information. Like an explorer, you 
need a compass to keep you going in the 
right direction (the search objective) and the 
expectation that you will have to wander 
around obstacles (reading related material, 
finding the location of sources). 
e 
Let's use our grower example to 
demonstrate a search. 
Search Strategy = Sieve 
Using the Internet Resource Guide on page 
45, she logs onto every resource listed and 
spends an hour or two familiarizing herself 
with the commands used by each system. 
While logged in, she also tries to determine 
where useful information might be located. 
Search Strategy = Targeted Search 
After reviewing all of the known resources 
she finds that the Almanac mail server at 
Oregon State University is a rich source of 
sustainable agriculture information. She also 
identifies PEN pages as a good resource. 
Search Strategy = Sample 
She decides to log onto PENpages and try 
searching under the keywords “orchard,” 
orchard floor,” “cover crop,” “grove,” 
“weed,” “weed control.” She soon finds 
that the single words “weed,” “orchard,” 
and “cover” work best. 
AgAccess 
It takes considerable hubris to bill 
yourself as the Agricultural Information 
Source, but that's just what AgAccess 
has grown to be since its modest start 
in 1984, Now universities, corporations 
and even governments have joined the 
folks calling AgAccess for the informa- 
tion they need. AgAccess stocks or can 
obtain more than fourteen thousand 
books — virtually every ag and ag-re- 
lated book in print. They'll even hunt 
down out-of-print books for you and 
for a suitable stipend, their experts 
and consultants will research any ag 
subject. But the best part of this most 
useful and well-organized service is the 
AgAccess bookstore in Davis, CA. 
There you can meet the congenial 
crew and the always-interesting cus- 
tomers while you peruse the tasty of- 
ferings (allow at least an hour). I'll bet 
you don't leave empty-handed even if 
you aren't a gardener or farmer. 
—]. Baldwin 
Backyard Market Gardening: 
the Entrepreneur's Guide to Selling 
What You Grow 
Andrew W. Lee, 1992. An informative 
guide, absolutely packed with solid advice & 
tips gleaned from many years of market 
gardening. Lee details how he arrived at the 
successful way he runs his operation includ- 
ing cultivation methods, indispensable tools 
of the trade, and the focus of the book: 
marketing. Much attention is paid to in- 
creasing sales & profits. 
e 
Growing Great Garlic 
Ron Engeland, 1991. A highly readable 
guide that includes all you need to know 
about this enigmatic crop. The author, an 
organic farmer who has grown 200 strains 
of garlic over the last fifteen years, covers 
all pertinent topics ranging from crop his- 
tory, to cultivation, pests, storage and mar- 
keting. He presents an exhaustive descrip- 
tion, with good illustrations, of the several 
distinct varieties of garlic and their pre- 
ferred climatic and soil conditions. 
e 
Raising & Sustaining Productivity of 
Smallholder Farming Systems in the Tropics 
Willem C. Beets, 1990. In this massive, 
multi-disciplinary handbook of sustainable 
ag development, the author stresses self- 
reliance, environmental balance, and long- 
term planning. He uses the experience 
gained in his many years of fieldwork to 
construct a theoretical framework for rais- 
ing overall productivity of farming systems. 
e 
Greener Pastures on Your Side of the Fence 
Bill Murphy, 1991. Murphy claims very per- 
suasively that controlled grazing manage- 
ment can double or triple productivity for 
conventionally managed permanent pasture. 
Practical & well delineated, his book details 
pasture ecology, animal grazing habits, pad- 
dock layout & fencing, livestock production, 
feed planning, & more. Management sugges- 
tions are made for improving many differ- 
ent grazing situations. 
AGuide 
© 
t 
| 
Agriculture on Interne 
A Guide to Agriculture 
on Internet 
Mark Campidonica. UC Davis, 16.95; 
$16.95 ($20.95 postpaid) from AgAccess, 
PO Box 2008, Davis, CA 95617; 
916/756-7177, fax 916/756-7188, 
email agaccess@igc.org 
AgAccess: 603 Fourth Street, Davis, CA 
95616; 916/756-7177, fax 916/756-7188, 
email agaccess@igc.org 
e 
Oriental Vegetables 
Joy Larkcom, 1991. 
Thorough, specific and well illustrated, 
this is a superb book. Larkcom has spent 
ten years in research in her own organic 
garden and in Asia. She reports details 
of history, varieties, use, pests, harvest, 
storage, & cuisine for over one hundred 
Asian vegetables & herbs. Most important, 
she describes traditional & modern cultiva- 
tion techniques for large- & small-scale 
operations. 
Am 
Sustainability » 
TOOLS AND IDEAS FOR FARMERS)” 
The National Agricultural Library: 
10301 Baltimore Blvd., Beltsville, MD 20705; 
301/504-6559. This is the largest ag library in 
the world. Staggeringly vast, the resources avail- 
able here go past mere books. They include ex- 
quisite nineteenth-century watercolors of fruit 
cultivars commissioned at the time of their intro- 
duction, the world’s largest collection of seed 
catalogs, and Agricola — the prime database for 
ag researchers. To preserve and make accessible 
their deteriorating old materials, the NAL is 
developing CD-ROM archiving. 
ATTRA (Appropriate Technology 
Transfer for Rural Areas): P.O.Box 3657, 
Fayetteville, AR 72702; 800/346-9140. Your gov- 
ernment working for you! Technical experts 
answer your questions about sustainable ag 
practices and resources. While not set up for 
speedy response, nor for exceedingly complex 
topics, this is a free service with lots of good 
information available. 
Harmony Farm Supply: PO Box 460, Graton, 
CA 95444; 707/ 823-9125, 707/823-1734. Their 
big catalog of organic farming supplies and equip- 
ment features informative sections on pest man- 
agement and drip irrigation, explaining all the 
latest improvements. 
Peaceful Valley Farm Supply: PO Box 
2209, Grass Valley, CA 95945; 916/272-4769. 
Thick, annotated catalog with an excellent selec- 
tion of tools and supplies for organic farmers and 
gardeners, especially good seed mixes for cover 
crops, erosion control, range, and pasture. 
A. M. Leonard: PO Box 816, Piqua, OH 45356; 
800/543-8955; FAX: 800/433-0633. Tools for 
professional landscapers, nurserymen, foresters, 
arborists, contractors, and gardeners. 
Necessary Trading Co.: One Nature’s Way, 
New Castle, VA 24127-0305. Organic farming 
supplies with a focus on pest management and 
soil fertility. 
