36 Whole Systems 
CLASSICS, PERENNIALS, REFERENCES 
ACK in 1967, the insights 
of Buckminster Fuller ini- 
tiated the Whole Earth 
Catalog. —Stewart Brand 
“To make the world work 
For 100% of humanity 
In the shortest possible time 
Through spontaneous cooperation 
Without ecological offense 
Or the disadvantage of anyone.” 
—Buckminster Fuller 
This sounds like a recent call to action, 
but Fuller dedicated his life to this goal 
in 1927, appointing himself as Guinea 
Pig B (for Bucky, as everyone called 
him). He developed and demon- 
strated “comprehensive anticipatory 
design science,” a way of thinking that 
facilitates the just distribution of the 
world's resources necessary for a sus- 
tainable society. His famous geodesic 
dome is but one of many examples 
of his more-with-less (he called it 
“ephemeralization”) philosophy at 
work. The best domes use only one- 
fiftieth of the maternal in a conven- 
tional structure of similar utility, and 
are unusually energy-efficient. His 
eleven-passenger Dymaxion™ car 
could top | 20 miles per hour, 
and got 30 mpg — in 1934! 
Bucky's everything-is-connected-to-ev- 
erything vision and detailed language 
can make his wnting and lecturing 
hard to follow at first. I'd start with a 
book about him — Buckminster Fuller 
— or the video “World ofBuckminster 
Fuller.“ Then tackle any of his books, 
gradually working toward the compre- 
hensive Synergetics and Synergetics 2. 
For total aural immersion, there is Ev- 
erything | Know, a seven-volume set 
(six cassettes per volume) of his lec- 
tures. These, all of Fuller's books (the 
out-of-print ones are Xerox copies), 
and a host of other artifacts — includ- 
ing a new version of the useful 
Dymaxion™ Ajir-Ocean Map — are 
available from the Buckminster Fuller 
Institute's catalog. A supporting mem- 
bership brings you the Trimtab 
Bulletin, which reports ongoing Fuller- 
inspired work. There is now a Fuller 
BBS called FIX (Fuller Information Ex- 
change). A Fuller exhibit will appear 
at the Smithsonian in 1995. 
Fuller said that he was working fifty 
years ahead to develop the necessary 
tools and insights to get us through 
this difficult time. Here they are. —JB 
Buckminster Fuller Institute 
Institute membership $20/year domestic, $25/year 
international; Dymaxion Artifacts Catalog and 
sample issue of Trimtab Bulletin free from 
Buckminster Fuller Institute, 1743 S. La Cienega 
Blvd, Los Angeles, CA 90035; 310/837-7710 
e 
Physics has found no solids! 
So to keep on teaching our 
children the word solid im- 
mediately is to drive home 
a way of thinking that is go- 
ing to be neither reliable 
nor useful. 
There are no surfaces, 
there are no solids, there 
are no straight lines, there 
are no planes. 
e 
I'm sure none of you know 
what you're doing with 
your supper. All you know 
is you've loaded it in, and 
you're not saying, “I’m going 
to send some of it off to 
this gland and some to that, 
and tomorrow morning I’m 
going to grow some hair.” 
I'll simply assert all of you 
are almost completely auto- 
mated and always have 
been. And you talk about 
automation as though it was 
something new and rather 
scary. 
e 
A human being is what | call a 
pattern integrity. 
I'm going to take a piece of manila rope, 
and then I’m going to splice into it a piece 
of cotton rope. | splice into the other end 
of the cotton rope a piece of nylon rope. 
I'm going to make the very simplest knot | 
know, which is to go around 360 degrees in 
= 
j / (= 
4 
this plane and 360 degrees in that plane. 
I'm not going to pull it tight. 
There’s the knot. 
The rope has not done this, | have done it 
to the rope. At any rate, | can slide it along 
....and now it’s on the nylon — suddenly, 
it’s off the end. We say: “The knot was a 
pattern integrity.” It wasn’t manila, it wasn’t 
Buckminster Fuller with his Dymaxion car 
and “Fly’s Eye” dome. 
cotton, it wasn’t nylon. 
Cotton, nylon, and manila — any one of 
them is good to let us know its shape, what 
its pattern was; but it wasn’t that: it had an 
integrity of its own. —Buckminster Fuller 
Composing a Life 
Author Mary Catherine Bateson, 
daughter of anthropologist Margaret 
Mead and biologist/anthropologist/phi- 
losopher Gregory Bateson, combines 
the best of both and adds her own 
considerable experience and wisdom. 
I listen carefully to everything 
she says. —SB 
This is a warm, inspiring, brilliant book. 
In it, Mary Catherine Bateson explores 
a new design for the composition of a 
life that is about ambiguity, discontinu- 
ity, metaphor, wholeness — that is a 
continuous act of creation. 
We lear from Bateson and four of 
her friends that the discontinuity that 
defines women’s lives doesn’t hinder 
achievement, but rather provides a 
source of light, strength, and creativity. 
A life that meanders, attending to the 
changing demands of children and 
husbands and work, offers a joy that 
comes from inclusion and process; the 
limited scope of single-minded pur- 
pose cannot offer this sort of joy. 
The book's form speaks to this joy; the 
simple act of talking to a friend over a 
cup of coffee at the kitchen table 
leads to connections and metaphors 
elegant and profound: “We see 
achievement as purposeful and mono- 
lithic, like the sculpting of a massive 
tree trunk that has first to be brought 
from the forest and then shaped by 
long labor to assert the artist's vision, 
rather than something crafted from 
odds and ends, like a patchwork quilt, 
and lovingly used to warm different 
nights and bodies.” 
COMPOSING 
4 
Lik LD 
Composing a Life 
(Life as a Work in Progress) 
Mary Catherine Bateson. Plume Books, 
1989; 241 pp. ISBN 0-452-26505-3 
$10 ($12 postpaid) from Penguin USA/ 
Consumer Sales, 120 Woodbine Street, 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621; 800/253-6476 
In the everchanging working world of 
the late twentieth century, to be 
mutable and flexible, as a woman is, 
is to be made of stronger fiber — an 
imperative when working toward a 
particular career goal is no guarantee 
of stability because there is no stabil- 
ity. A life lived this way is also rich 
with risk — and endless, delightful 
possibility. —Lisa Winer 
e 
In this society, we habitually underestimate 
the impulse in men, women, and even chil- 
dren to care for one another and their 
need to be taken care of. In a multiplicity of 
forms, caretaking is part of the composition 
of almost every life. Because we have so 
elaborated the caretaking professions, we 
may not notice the amount of caretaking 
done by an artist with apprentices or by a 
chief of engineering or a college president; 
we fail to notice the aridity of these jobs 
when they do not involve care for others. 
A.A. Milne, in the nursery rhyme, under- 
stood the impulse of a three year old, 
“James James Morrison Morrison,” to take 
care of his mother, but we are largely blind 
to caretaking by children and often miss the 
mutual caretaking of men in mines and fox- 
holes. When Johnnetta walks in the 
morning, she is taking care of herself by 
dealing with the stress that goes with her 
job and taking care of her students by giving 
them a useful model. She is also caring for 
an idea, the idea of young black women 
striding out into their lives, limber and free. 
Coming to New York to care for a hospi- 
talized son could be seen as a distraction 
from her professional commitment, but in 
fact it provides a symbolic refocusing of the 
other kinds of care, a style of response and 
commitment learned over a lifetime. Being 
a mommy is part of being a good president. 
e 
It is now time to explore the creative po- 
tential of interrupted and conflicted lives, 
where energies are not narrowly focused 
or permanently pointed toward a single 
ambition. These are not lives without com- 
mitment, but rather lives in which 
commitments are continually refocused and 
redefined. We must invest time and passion 
in specific goals and yet at the same time 
acknowledge that these are mutable. The 
circumstances of women’s lives now and in 
the past provide examples for new ways of 
thinking about the lives of both men and 
women. What are the possible transfers of 
learning when life is a collage of different 
tasks? How does creativity flourish on dis- 
traction? What insights arise from the 
experience of multiplicity and ambiguity? 
And at what point does desperate improvi- 
sation become significant achievement? 
These are important questions in a world in 
which we are increasingly strangers and so- 
journers. The knight errant, who finds his 
challenges along the way, may be a better 
model for our times than the knight who is 
questing for the grail. 
