120 
Sustainability 
VILLAGE HOMES 
HE two-hundred-and-twenty 
fortunate families of the Vil- 
lage Homes development live 
in what most folks would call 
a park. Trees and gardens are 
everywhere, redolent with ripening edibles. All 
the homes are solar, with energy bills about 
half those of houses in conventional develop- 
ments nearby. The small lots are augmented 
by the mutually owned community garden, 
expansive village green, swimming pool, and 
bike paths; these connect all the homes to one 
another and to the nearby town of Davis, CA. 
Inhabitants pay monthly dues to a strong 
neighborhood association that sets policy and 
sees to the maintenance. Crime is low and 
neighborliness is rampant. The place is quiet 
and it smells good. It’s a nice place to live. Even 
teens like it. 
This astonishingly attractive, environmentally 
wonderful community 
is so popular that 
homes change hands, unadvertised, for 20 
percent more than others of similar class 
nearby. Visitors resist leaving. The developer 
made money. Yet after eighteen years of 
success, no new project like it has been at- 
tempted anywhere. Lazy developers, stodgy 
bankers, and cowardly bureaucrats provide 
the obstructions, as usual. But an imaginative 
and persistant developer, Mike Corbett, has 
shown us that they can be dealt with. Your 
move. —J. Baldwin 
Special thanks to Judy Corbett, Virginia Thigpen, 
and Richard Nilsen for information and assis- 
tance. Photos by Don Ryan. 
Houses front on bike paths, the 
real streets of Village Homes. The 
paths allow safe travel to any 
other house without crossing a 
street. Their connection to town 
makes most auto use unnecessary. 
Alley-like cul-de-sacs eliminate 
through traffic. Street parking is 
not allowed. Shaded, narrow pave- 
ment reduces heat gain, helping 
to keep the neighborhood about 
ten degrees cooler than others 
nearby. Houses are comfortable 
without air conditioning. 
Drainage “‘swales” hold rain run- 
off, making storm sewers obsolete 
while recharging the local water 
table. Temporary ponds are ab- 
sorbed before mosquitoes can 
breed. Some swales serve as play- 
grounds during the dry season. 
J. R. R. Tolkien street names invite 
the local “Hobbittown” nickname. 
It’s used with respect. 
CNM ee 
s 
Spies :/ticae> RUA 
ae 
