Nomadics 
324 GETTING THERE 
The Insider’s Guide to Air Courier Bargains 
This entertaining guide lays out the un- 
romantic details of shepherding stuff 
— usually boring business documents 
— to exotic places. You give up your 
checked-baggage allotment (that be- 
ing where the “goods” travel) in ex- 
change for a cheap airline ticket. It's 
an excellent way to see the world on 
a shoestring budget, as long as you've 
got time on your hands and can follow 
directions to the nth degree. 
The first half deals with procedures: 
how to get the trip you want; how to 
negotiate the cheapest ticket; the im- 
portance of maintaining a professional 
image (dress conservatively and don’t 
get drunk on the flight); tricks for 
packing light (since you're usually lim- 
ited to one cany-on). The rest is an 
extensive directory of air courier com- 
panies and booking agencies. 
—Linda Morgan 
e 
When you arrive at your destination, you 
will be met by another representative of 
the air courier company. You may have 
been instructed to hold up the envelope 
containing the manifests as you leave the 
customs area to identify you to the person 
meeting your flight. Sometimes you will be 
given a phone number to call when you 
have cleared through customs. (Usually you 
will breeze through customs by following 
the “Nothing To Declare” signs.) 
Once you have made contact with the re- 
ceiving courier company, you will be asked 
to wait — in the customs area of the ter- 
minal or in a building elsewhere on the air- 
*, 
Air Courier © 
The Insider’s Guide 
to Air Courier Bargains 
(How to Travel World-Wide 
for Next to Nothing) 
Kelly Monaghan. Intrepid Traveler, 
1994; 234 pp. ISBN 0-9627892-6-7 
$14.95 ($17.45 postpaid) from Upper 
Access Books, Box 457, Hinesburg, VT 
05461; 800/356-9315 
port grounds — while the courier company 
representative walks the paperwork and 
the checked baggage through the customs 
process. Once that’s done, you'll be 
free to leave. 
In my experience, this has been a hassle- 
free experience. | have, however, seen 
other couriers who were not so lucky. 
While | was leaving after a five-minute wait 
at the courier shed in London, a courier 
from an earlier flight was fuming that he’d 
been kept waiting for hours with no expla- 
nation about the cause of the delay. On 
other trips to London, | haven’t even been 
required to go to the customs shed; the 
rep simply asked where they could get in 
touch with me if they had to and let me go. 
Green Tortoise Adventure Travel 
Have you ever yeamed for a comfy 
mattress on a long Greyhound ride? Or 
cursed silently as the driver stops at 
yet another Howard Johnson's? The 
most extensive low-budget bus service 
in the United States, Green Tortoise is 
the independent and adventurous 
traveler's alternative to Greyhound. Be- 
sides offering lower prices on routes 
between most major cities on the west 
coast, it also offers lengthier excursions 
| through Alaska and Central America, 
trips to attractions such as the Grand 
Canyon and Mardi Gras, and coast- 
to-coast voyages. 
The Tortoise solution to those stiff up- 
right seats? Get rid of the damn things! 
| Long, level bunks allow passengers to 
sleep in reasonable comfort. Compen- 
sation for the slower pace includes 
vegetarian cookouts and stops at 
hot springs. 
Green Tortoise also operates hostels 
in San Francisco and Seattle. 
—Richie Unterberger 
Green Tortoise Adventure Travel: 
494 Broadway, San Francisco, CA 94133; 
415/956-7500. 
e 
There is nothing else like a Green Tortoise 
trip. Possibly 99% of our passengers have a 
great time, and many return to travel with 
us again. They are the kind of people who 
make friends easily, because they like them- 
selves and have respect for all lifestyles, 
they have a wide range of tastes, know 
how to help themselves and others, and 
love to share and preserve the beauty of 
nature... and when something does go 
wrong, they don’t get in a funk about it. 
However, we occasionally encounter a 
traveler who does not get it. They some- 
how believe they have stumbled upon a low 
cost variation of other trips costing much, 
much more. They want such things as; an 
exact itinerary, guaranteed arrival times, 
“to go shopping,” “proper potty stops,” 
showers every day, even a private berth 
— 
prevention and remedies. 
How to Be an Importer and Pay for Your World Travel 
This practical and inspirational text for 
the novice importer resonates with the 
voice of experience. It is laced with ex- 
amples of the mistakes and triumphs 
the authors have encountered in their 
own business. 
While this book is true to its title, fre- 
quently emphasizing importing as a 
way to subsidize vacation travel, its in- 
formation seems to favor the serious 
“career” importer — someone doing 
seasonal and volume buying. But a 
casual traveler interested only in per- 
sonal shopping can glean valuable 
advice here, too. For example, much 
attention is given to US and foreign 
customs policies, bargaining with mer- 
chants in other cultures, packing and 
shipping abroad, and currency ex- 
change, all at a level of detail not 
found in most travel guides. 
Over a third of the book is devoted to 
an appendix that covers all manner of 
industry-crucial data. This includes an 
explanation of the international trade 
system GSP (Generalized System of 
Preferences), a comparison chart of 
American and European sizes, and a 
hefty glossary of foreign trade terms 
and abbreviations. —LM 
OTHER GREAT RESOURCES 
Airhitch: 3790 Broadway, Suite 100, 
New York, NY 10025; 212/864-2000. 
Hooks up flexible flyers willing to travel 
within a certain five-day period to cheap 
flights to Europe. 
Jet Smart: Diana Fairechild. 1992, 
Flyana Rhyme, Inc. Over 200 tips for jet lag 
with privacy curtains, no nudity, no parties, 
and on and on. Things that we cannot con- 
trol, and do not offer. This has happened 
most on our longer adventures, such as 
Alaska and Central America, but has even 
happened on our shortest trips. 
There are no age limits on our trips, either 
young or old, but our trips are not for 
people who are unable to carry their own 
luggage for several blocks, crawl around on 
the bus, help with cookouts, maybe even 
set up a tent in the rain . 
. . be nice, etc. 
Parents wishing to bring children on any 
trip other than Yosemite or North/South 
must be interviewed before we can accept 
their reservations. The Green Tortoise re- 
serves the right to refuse service to any 
person at any time. 
How to Be an Importer 
and Pay for Your World Travel 
Mary Green & Stanley Gillmar. 1993; 
215 pp. ISBN 0-89815-501-0 
$8.95 ($12.45 postpaid) from Ten Speed 
Press, PO Box 7123, Berkeley, CA 94707; 
800/841-2665 
SYMBOLS £28 MONETARY,UNITS 
1|—| 
TiS {Al a] & 
Ba Vale 
SER 
So=i 
Pa > | Ly | 3 
A/a) 
fF / T/AS/% 
5|Z\/O|MIE|e€/ 4 
6|AILV) VFI S| & 
7\clvitlzi¢}9 
sIAIA| 
mI H| 7] ¢ 
9 |7u! 4 
0216/8 
OE 
aS 
ae er 
sJapanese and Thai symbols are not included here due to their similarity to the Chinese. 
e 
Keep your eye on what you really want. It 
is a usual tactic for a seller to try to confuse 
you and divert you by showing you other 
alternatives at different prices. These alter- 
natives are designed usually to convince you 
that the price he is proposing for the object 
at issue is certainly reasonable or that if you 
want to spend less there are these other 
items which are almost as good, and these 
others that are better for more. 
The psychology is probably that you will get 
into a pattern of thinking of the proposed 
prices as the reasonable range rather than 
the actual lower expected price. It also 
gives the seller a means of sizing you up as a 
negotiator. How strongly you keep coming 
back to the one you originally selected gives 
the seller a gauge of how much you want 
that piece and the reasons. He uses this 
in establishing his later counter-offers. 
There is one other aspect to the 
merchant's game of running you through 
the alternatives. Sometimes a seller has a 
particularly fine piece which you have exam- 
ined carefully before you made your first 
proposal. The seller may have other such 
pieces which are similar, but not quite as 
good. After confusing you with many better 
and lesser alternatives, if the seller suspects 
your choice of that original piece was not as 
informed as was first thought, he may finally 
show you not the piece you first looked at, 
but its lesser cousin. You'll get it back to 
the hotel and find a crack or a repair that 
you don’t remember seeing when you 
were examining it in the shop. 
