i Taming Technology 
STREET TECH 
e asked a diverse group of techies to share their 
favorite, most indispensable tools, books, catalogs, 
and mags with us. Here are some of their responses. 
—Gareth Branwyn 
Cast of characters: 
Dany “Xixax” Drennan is the editor 
of the “tech/art/culture” zine Inquisitor 
(info: inquisitor@echonyc.com). He 
likes to hack microcontrollers and 
other homebrewed devices. 
Alberto Gaitan is an artist and com- 
poser who works with Art Attack!, an 
interactive installation group. Given 
meager funding, they piece together 
most of their tech on the super-cheap. 
Sue Forslev installs computer net- 
works and maintains workstations. 
Bob Madderra has been hacking 
robots since he was seventeen. 
Mark W. Tilden, the “BEAM robotics 
guy,” has built the world's first Robot 
Jurassic Pond; seventy robots of thirty 
different species interact continuously 
there, under solar power. 
Jay Eric Townsend is a garage VR 
hacker and originator of the Internet's 
glove-list,” for people interesting in 
hacking the Mattel Power Glove. 
Bill Woodcock builds fancy corporate 
computer networks by day and ‘“chew- 
ing gum and baling wire” toastemets by 
night (see “Toastemet” sidebar). He 
builds these consummate street-tech 
creatures out of “borrowed, salvaged, 
reclaimed, recycled, dumpster-dived, 
and cobbled-together hardware.” 
Tools: 
Forslev: My two favorite tools: a pair 
of chopsticks and a Swiss Army knife. 
You can open any PC with the knife, 
and chopsticks are good for removing 
screws that fall into crevices. 
Madderra: Digital Logic Probe ($18 
from Radio Shack), lots of bread- 
boards (around $10 each from Ra- 
dio Shack), Linux (free software by 
ftp-ing from: sunsite.unc.edu) 
Tilden: The Dremel MINIMITE 2- 
speed model 750 Cordless Rotary 
Tool, Lindstrom diagonal cutters, 
Cresta needlenose pliers — no. 
3013-S (all from Jensen Tool). 
Townsend: A Leatherman’s tool 
(a combination tool with pliers, 
screwdrivers, and knife — around 
$40). Mini-Maglite flashlight. A ba- 
sic digital multimeter (around $30 
from Radio Shack). 
Woodcock: Leviton Telecom’s Test- 
Tone Generator and Inductive 
Amplifier Probe (about $100 for the 
pair). Other vendors make similar 
products, but Leviton’s is the sturdi- 
est I’ve seen, it’s better looking than 
most, and they replaced mine over- 
night (no questions asked) after | 
fried the amplifier. 
What |S o Toasternet? 
Toastemets are private, independent 
Intemet-connected networks that spring up 
in basements, closets, wherever there's 
| space. They are built by individuals, often 
| using bizarre mixtures of mismatched 
hardware and software. Prototype high- 
speed routers and network hardware 
nestle comfortably among antiquated 
UNIX hosts built from ten-year-old dis- 
| carded parts; alpha-test software runs on 
machines salvaged from junkyards and 
dumpsters. Macintoshes run ported PC 
| software; PCs run one-of-a-kind operating 
systems. Many toasternets seem at first 
like hellish tangles of junk, unlikely to work 
at all. Fact is, the intensity of competition, 
the rate of propagation, and the great vari- 
ety of methods and combinations have 
created a form of electronic Darwinism. 
Software, protocols, and routing algorithms 
are born, fan out over the net, and disap- 
pear, prey to faster, more reliable, more 
portable new generations. Toastemets are 
a hothouse for technological standards, 
and we all profit from the resulting 
hybrid vigor. —Bill Woodcock 
|) FTP server drive. 2) POP mail spooler. 3) Prototype PPP router being tested. 4) Livingston 
| Portmaster router. 5) Norris Earphone atop a stack of modems. 6) punchdown blocks. 
Books: 
Drennan; Telecom Library Book- 
store. Everything you could possi- 
bly want to know about telecom 
(except what you get from 2600 
magazine). Any and all books by 
Forrest M. Mims Ill. 
Gaitan: Radio Shack’s electronic se- 
ries. My favorites are Understanding 
Electronic Control of Automation Sys- 
tems by Neil M. Schmitt and Rob- 
ert F. Farwell (T. |. Learning Cen- 
ter) and Understanding Digital 
Electronics by Gene McWhorter 
(Howard W. Sams & Co.). Radio 
Shack has lots of books for both 
beginner and expert, covering sub- 
jects from simple all-purpose cir- 
cuit diagrams to complete projects. 
Madderra: Don Lancaster’s Incred- 
ible Secret Money Machine II reveals 
(among other things) how to get 
trade journals and manuals for 
free. Also check out Lancaster’s 
“Hardware Hacker” column in the 
excellent Electronics Now. 
Tilden: Datamanuals from Texas Instru- 
ments, Motorola, and National Linear. 
Townsend: Read everything, from 
Bare Wire 
Sleeve 
Jensen 
Master 
Catalog 
Wire-wrapping provides a positive. uniform 
electrical connection faster and more eco- 
nomically than any other method. No noed for 
soldered contacts. No skill is required to pro- 
duce perfect wire-wrapped connectors of 
gas tight” quality. Select the combination of 
bit and sleeve you need for either a Regular 
or Modified wrap. All bits and sleeves fil with 
either the manual or electric OK wire wrap- 
ping tools described on page 198. See page 
200 for wire stripper 
IT’S EASY TO MAKE WIRE WRAPPING CONNECTIONS 
Step 1 
INSERTION 
Step 3 
TERMINAL 
INSERTION 
EC a mye MO 
crappy old TAB Books to vendors’ 
product descriptions. Go to used 
bookstores, libraries, etc. There is 
no single source of all good info. 
Of course, nothing beats Usenet as 
a source of timely information 
and useful connections. 
Woodcock: Harry Newton’s ridicu- 
lously thorough Newton’s Telecom 
Dictionary is the only place to turn 
when marketing droids start spout- 
ing salesspeak and engineers start 
in with the technojargon. 
Catalogs: 
Drennan: All Electronics for new and 
surplus parts and supplies; Fair Radio 
Sales Co. for commercial/army surplus. 
Gaitan: The gearhead’s bible: 
Grainger’s. They have over 190 
locations nationwide. The Radio 
Shack catalog. 
Tilden: Digikey catalog. 
Townsend: Radio Shack is your friend. 
But so are used electronic and junk 
shops. | buy very little through mail 
order. Check out your local 
ham-radio store: not only do hams 
have a wide body of experience to 
Step 2 
WIRE 
ANCHORING 
Step 4 
FINISHED 
CONNECTION 
Digi-Key Corporation 
If there's one electronics catalog you 
shouldn't be without, it's this fat, juicy 
bi-monthly. Digi-Key's decent prices, 
excellent service, same-day shipping, 
and staggering selection of compo- 
nents have won the respect and 
repeat business of electrical engin- HP Ne 
igi-Key Corporation: 
701 Brooks 
7) HTTP server, AURP router, AFP server, PAP spooler. 8) CD drive. 9) mail, FTP, primary 
| nameserver, shell accounts. 10) news spooling drive. 11) Powerbook serves as a mobile ad- 
| 
ministration console, as well as phone book, etc. 12) news and NFS server, secondary nameserver. 
eers, repair techs, and hobbyists. 
The catalog gives detailed specs 
on most items, —GB 
e 
Fiber Optic Lab Manual & Lab Kit 
Features: 7 Experiments * Final Design 
Project * Fiber Optic Glossary * Research 
Projects. The Fiber Optic Lab Manual is a 
complete 60 page technical manual on fiber 
optics, available alone or with the Lab Kit. 
It is written in an easy to understand style 
and fits well with any text or course on 
fiber optics. All the fundamentals of fiber 
optic systems are covered in detail. 
FBIOO-ND (IF-LM1) Lab Manual $7.95 
Experiments include: Making a Light Pipe 
* Fiber Cable Transmission * Splices, 
Connections and Terminations * Speed 
of Opto-Electric Devices * Fiber Optic 
Transmitters * Fiber Optic Receiver 
Design * Making a Star Coupler. FB/0/-ND 
(IF LMH) Kit with Lab Manual $39.95 
Via 
Avenue South, 
0) 
PO Box 677, 
Thief River Falls, 
&, 
MN 56701; 
Hy 800/344-4539. 
2) 0 
RF connectors 
American Science & Surplus: Catalog 
$1. 3605 Howard Street, Skokie, IL 60076; 
708/982-0722. Pee Wee Herman might buy 
hardware here. They carry parts, tools, toys, 
inexplicable artifacts, from the sublime to the 
ridiculous. The item descriptions are great. 
Formerly known (and widely loved) as Jerryco. 
