62 Communications 
VIRTUAL COMMUNITIES 
ae Pe 
ETTING ONLINE IS ABOUT MAKING CONNECTIONS, 
both electronically and socially. Because you can reach a 
huge population regardless of geography or time, you are 
sure to have access to people with common interests. 
Electronic networks can help you find others with similar 
interests, taste, skills and background, or who have information you are 
seeking. Therein are the makings of community. 
The human tropism toward community is strong and very adaptable, tending 
to use the tools available, as other organisms adapt to their particular 
environments. But humans are toolmakers, and new and improved means of 
communicating and delivering information appear constantly on the nets. 
Commercial and noncommercial online systems, including the Internet-based 
group communications tools, all have their particular strengths and weak- 
nesses when it comes to supporting community building and maintenance. 
Smaller and less commercialized systems have led the way in establishing 
community asa 
reason for joining online systems and in creating new software 
and applications to satisfy community-based needs. 
All of the resources we recommend here include pointers to online systems 
that support community. They all contain reviews and contact information for 
systems from the smallest BBS to the largest commercial online behemoth. 
Youare likely to find something that fits your definition of community on many 
of them. —Cliff Figallo 
The Virtual Community 
Howard Rheingold immersed himself 
in The WELL for years and explored 
other online hangouts. He has written 
a participant’s-eye view of how people 
use networks as social and collabora- 
tive living spaces. His tour of cyber- 
space includes historical background, 
visits with key creators and partici- 
pants in Japan and England, descrip- 
tions of social innovations taking place 
through networked “multi-user simu- 
lated environments,” thorough coverage 
of online activism, and an overview of 
the challenges that lie before us in 
lawmaking and regulation of the in- 
formation matrix. It's a must-read 
book for anyone interested in the 
societal implications of widespread 
network use. —CF 
e 
Parents, libertarians, Deadheads, radio pro- 
ducers, writers, homeowners, and sports 
fans all have particular places to hang out in 
the WELL. But in the News conference, the 
WELL’s town square, there is a deliberately 
general topic, Experts on the WELL, that 
continues to be a paradigm of one of the 
ways people can spin banter into an un- 
structured repository of valuable 
unclassifiable expertise. 
The premise of Experts on the WELL is 
simple. If you have a problem or a question 
concerning any topic, from plumbing to 
astrophysics, you pose it. Then you wait 
seven minutes or a week. Sometimes noth- 
ing happens, and sometimes you get exactly 
what you want. In many instances, the an- 
swer already exists elsewhere in the WELL, 
and the topic serves as a kind of commu- 
nity librarian service that points the query 
toward the right part of the WELL’s collec- 
tion of information. And in some instances, 
the information requested exists in some- 
one’s head, and that person takes the time 
|_ 
to 
type it 
The Virtual Community 
Howard Rheingold. 1993; 288 pp. 
ISBN 0-201-60870-7 
$22.95 postpaid. Addison-Wesley 
Publishing Co./Order Dept., | Jacob Way, 
Reading, MA 01867; 800/447-2226 
e 
People in virtual communities use words on 
screens to exchange pleasantries and argue, 
engage in intellectual discourse, conduct 
commerce, exchange knowledge, share 
emotional support, make plans, brainstorm, 
gossip, feud, fall in love, find friends and 
lose them, play games, flirt, create a little 
high art and a lot of idle talk. People in vir- 
tual communities do just about everything 
people do in real life, but we leave our bod- 
ies behind. You can’t kiss anybody and no- 
body can punch you in the nose, but a lot 
can happen within those boundaries. To the 
millions who have been drawn into it, the 
richness and vitality of computer-linked 
cultures is attractive, even addictive. 
There is no such thing as a single, mono- 
lithic, online subculture; it’s more like an 
ecosystem of subcultures, some frivolous, 
others serious. The cutting edge of scien- 
tific discourse is migrating to virtual com- 
munities, where you can read the elec- 
tronic pre-pre-printed reports of molecular 
biologists and cognitive scientists. At the 
same time, activists and educational re- 
formers are using the same medium as a 
political tool. You can use virtual communi- 
ties to find a date, sell a lawnmower, pub- 
lish a novel, conduct a meeting. 
The WELL 
Central to the WELL's early growth, de- 
liberate community-building remains an 
important part of its development. Like 
an intellectual flea market, ideas and 
opinions are the currency of exchange on 
the WELL, and the process and medium 
through which the exchange takes place 
are constantly under examination by the 
citizens there. The WELL has full Internet 
connectivity. Voice: 4 | 5/332-4335; 
2400 bps: 415/332-6106; 9600bps 
(or greater): 41 5/332-84 | 0; telnet: 
well.com. $1 5/month, $2/hour. 
ECHO 
Taking the regional-community cue from 
the WELL, Stacy Hom started ECHO 
(East Coast HangOut) to build a New 
York City-flavored virtual community. 
ECHO has grown slowly but steadily and is 
now connected to the Internet. Charge for 
access to the women’s conferences is dis- 
counted, Compared to almost every other 
online system, ECHO has the largest pro- 
portion of female subscribers (40 percent) 
Voice: 212/255-3839; telnet: echonyc.com. 
$19.50/month (first month free), $1 /hour 
after first 30 hours. 
IGC Networks 
The Institute for Global Communications 
supports PeaceNet, EcoNet, ConflictNet 
and LaborNet. The IGC Networks make 
up the world's only computer communica- 
tions system dedicated solely to environ- 
mental preservation, peace, and human 
rights. IGC also supports a program 
through the Association for Progressive 
Communications that works to bring net- 
work connectivity to poor and technologi- 
cally disadvantaged parts of the world and 
to activist organizations worldwide. Voice: 
415/442-0220; intermet: support@igc.org. 
$15 sign-up fee, $1 O/month, $5/hour 
off-peak and $7/hour peak. 
Women’s Wire 
The first online system to focus primarily 
on women’s issues and information came 
into being this year. Since women are sig- 
nificantly underrepresented in the online 
world (estimates range from |0 percent to 
( \ 
fae} Online Resources| 
WHERE TO FIND ONLINE COMMUNITY 
The Usenet backbone in North America (1 989). 
| 6 percent of total accounts), Women’s 
Wire aims to attract and train more fe- 
male network users by bringing women’s 
organizations and publications to its sys- 
tem and maintaining a database of in- 
formation on women’s health, history, 
employment, and politics. Women's Wire 
offers a graphical user interface called First 
Class for Macintosh or PC Windows users. 
Voice: 415/615-8989; 1200 and up bps: 
415/474-7239. $1 5/month, $2.50-$7.50/ 
hour after first 2 hours, 
iss 
Usenet 
Usenet is the largest many-to-many con 
versation in the world. Discussions of moi 
than 6000 different topics circulate in o' 
80 different countries, The population 
ers of Usenet as a whole numbers in 
the 
millions, and some newsgroups are read 
tens of thousands of people every day. — 
This anarchic and wildly varied collection 
serious, frivolous, useful, absurd, heat 
morous, enlightening, and disgusting 
c 
sations is too vast to be a communit 
there are hundreds of communities 
found in different newsgroups. Mi 
access Usenet via the Internet, 
bi 
newsgroups are also carried 
by 
and other BBS networks. — 
Large Commercial Sys 
Community exists in 
est of cities, and so it 
have over one million s 
OnLine (800/827-636+ 
them and, while Delp! 
and GEnie (800)/63 
their populations a 
Spend some timi 
observing. Use 
ke 
to find your a 
Otner Great Books Asout Larce Ontine Systems 
How to Connect: Chris Shipley. 1993, Ziff- 
Davis Press. Online culture, historical informa- 
tion, computer viruses, and telecom basics. 
Modems for Dummies: Tina Rathbone. 
1993, IDG Books. Good chapters on Prodigy, 
CompuServe, America OnLine and GEnie. 
Dvorak’s Guide to PC Telecommuni- 
cations: John Dvorak & Nick Anis. 1993, 
Osborne McGraw-Hill. Includes a PC-compatible 
disk with the Telix telecom program and other 
software; discount coupons for online subscrip- 
tions, software and modems. 
