Political Tools 
290 
HUNDRED 
YEARS 
AGO, 
Americans were 
dis- 
cussing the benefits 
of electricity and arguing 
about who should build and run the 
electrical power networks. Would 
the cities be served and the rural 
areas ignored? Should the cities own 
their own power system or should 
private companies? In Europe many 
of the benefits of electricity were 
seen as a social good; in America 
these were seen as a business. Politi- 
cal policy as well as market condi- 
tions determined who had access to 
the new technology. 
——————————<mM 
LLL 
L!UmU 
COMMUNITY NETWORKS 
La Plaza de Taos TeleCommunity Foundation in New Mexico is designing a community network 
with a new interface. Pictured is the start-up screen with a photograph of the historic plaza sur- 
rounded by icons representing the kinds of local and national information available to users. 
The debates about the so-called in- 
formation superhighway in some 
ways parallel the discussions held a 
century ago. While some of the de- 
cisions are going to be made at the 
national, state, or corporate level, 
local residents are realizing they 
have a great deal to say and do about 
how the national information infra- 
structure will look in their town, 
county, region, or Indian reserva- 
tion. Many different groups are 
working on this challenging problem, 
some since the 1970s but most since 
1990 or later. This movement 
is 
called community networking or 
civic networking. There is no single 
national organization, no books 
available as this Catalog goes to 
press, no journals, and no annual 
tradeshow. Nevertheless, a great 
deal of activity is taking place online 
and in schools and community cen- 
ters and libraries as these civic net- 
works take hold. 
These networks have provided 
healthcare and employment infor- 
mation, community discussion of 
local issues, citizen grassroots orga- 
nizing around local issues, timely in- 
formation about local services 
(libraries, city halls, zoning regula- 
tions, city council proceedings, etc.) 
to community residents. These com- 
munity networks have been orga- 
nized by grassroots groups of 
computer enthusiasts, community 
workers, teachers, librarians, and 
businesspeople, but some are for- 
profit ventures; these may become 
services provided by large compa- 
nies running local systems. No mat- 
ter what your interest or talent, you 
can help start or even help operate 
a community network. You can 
help support these networks even as 
a user. 
The formation of these networks is 
akin to an electronic barn raising. 
Different elements of the commu- 
nity gather to work toward a com- 
mon goal, and one of the first ben- 
efits is that people who may have 
never met before begin to discuss 
important issues concerning infor- 
mation and its dissemination, as well 
as how they communicate with the 
government and with each other. 
The local information for the net- 
works comes from many sources: 
the city, nonprofit social organiza- 
tions and hobbyists, the school dis- 
trict, university, political parties, the 
library, and religious groups. Some 
community networks exclude busi- 
ness activity from their information 
mix, but others see it as an ingredient 
crucial to the success of the system. 
Because of the growing interest in 
access to the Internet, most commu- 
nity networks allow the user to 
reach at the very least a limited set 
of destinations on the Internet and 
to exchange email with people 
worldwide. 
Some systems serve as information 
refineries. Boulder Community Net- 
work in Colorado ferrets out infor- 
mation from local sources such as 
the United Way, the city, the library, 
the school district, the newspaper, 
and local businesses to help them 
arrange the information in the cor- 
rect electronic formats, mount it on 
the file server, and pump it to other 
networks or BBSs. These same sys- 
tems are engaged in training and 
providing support to the local com- 
munity (computer and network 
training, consulting on how they can 
use telecommunications to further 
their mission, interagency communi- 
cation), so each network has a large 
amount of personal contact. 
Most community networks consist 
of a single computer connected to 
Organizations 
National Public Telecomputing Network: 
34555 Chagnn Blvd., Moreland Hill, OH 
44022; phone and fax: 216/247-3328, 
Intemet: info@nptn.org Assists organizing 
groups that want to start a Free-Net in 
their town or community. Many of their 
materials are on the anonymous ftp site 
at: nptn.org (cd into: /pub/info.nptn). 
yal Online Resources 
Art McGee’s List of Community! 
Rural Electronic Mailing Lists 
Art McGee maintains a list of electronic 
— 
mailing lists that is now too long to indude 
on this page. If you have email access, t 
list of lists will connect you with all 
community and rural networking eni 
asts you have time to meet. 
The latest version of this list is av 
anonymous FTP from ftp.ne 
directory: pub/amcgee/com 
only have access to email, thei 
use FTPmail to do the same 
help message to: 
ia 
ftp-request@netcom.com 
access this list by sendin 
fingering: amcg 
: 
This last address is 
correspondence, pl 
D 
Sources of Information about Community Networking 
International Association of Community 
TeleService Centers: 44 avenue de la 
Mare, Batiment “B", F-06100 Nice, 
France; phone: 33-93-8|-9 1-84, fax: 33- 
93-8 |-50-75, Internet: lars.engvall@sp | .y- 
net.fr This organization studies existing 
centers and helps in the creation of new 
ones in both developing and industrialized 
nations. 
Center for Civic Networking: PO Box 
65272, Washington, DC 20037; 202/ 
362-3831, Intemet: rciville@civicnet.org 
CCN provides technical assistance on a 
consulting and a partnering basis in the 
planning of civic networking projects. They 
work on both the state and federal level to 
bring about policy changes that will help 
community networks to flourish. 
Community Technology Development Center: 
8260 Willow Oaks Corporate Drive, Suite 
700, Fairfax, VA 22031; Intemet: 
info@commtech.org Conducts and dis- 
tributes research on community networking 
technologies and systems, and assists 
groups with the organization and deploy- 
ment of community networks and 
network-based information services. 
The Morino Institute: 768 Walker Road, 
Suite 289, Great Falls, VA 22066; phone: 
703/759-0477, fax: 703/759-9548, 
Internet: info@morino.com Provides fel- 
lowships, education programs and facilita- 
tion of pilot and research projects to help 
individuals and communities work toward 
social change through the potential of 
electronic communications. 
Books 
Several works are in the planning stage, 
but only these volumes could be listed at 
press time. 
Community Networks (Building a New 
Participatory Medium): Douglas Schuler. 
1995, Addison-Wesley. For ordering infor- 
mation, contact | Jacob Way, Reading, 
MA 01867, 800/447-2226. Schuler wrote 
the definitive article on community net- 
works in the January | 994 issue of the 
Communications of the ACM. His book will 
expand on the article's themes. 
Emerging Communities (Integrating Net- 
worked Information into Library Services): 
Ann Bishop, Editor. 1994; 304 pp. ISBN 
0-685-6482|-4. $30 ($33 postpaid). 
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 
Graduate School of Library & Information 
Science/Publications Office, University of 
Illinois, 501 E. Daniel Street, Champaign, 
IL 61820; 217/333-1359. Contains a 
large section of papers on community 
networks. The papers may also be found 
online on ftp.cni.org in the CNI/docu- 
ments/illinois.dpc/text folder. 
Electronic Sources 
Boulder Community Network runs a World 
Wide Web server. The address is http:// 
www. cs.colorado.edu/homes/bcn/ 
public_html/Home.htm 
Peter Scott of the University of 
Saskatchewan maintains pointers to other 
networks on his home page: http:// 
www.usask.ca/~scottp/free.htm| 
The WELL gopher — gopher.well.sf.ca.us 
(port 70) — contains a large sub-directory 
of 
information on community networks, in- 
cluding papers, discussions, and organizing 
information. 
There are numerous community systems, 
but some are so busy handling local callers 
that they may be hard to reach by modem 
or the Internet. Here are some representa- 
tive systems to try: 
Big Sky Telegraph: Western Montana 
College. 710 S. Atlantic Ave., Dillon, MT 
59725; modem (1200 baud): 
406/683-7680, Internet: 192.231.192.1 
Columbia Online Information Network 
(COIN): University of Missouri Campus 
Computing. 200 Hinkel Building, Columbia, 
MO 61211; modem: 314/884-7000, 
Intemet: bigcat.missoun.edu 
Victoria Free-Net: Vancouver Island 
Advanced Technology Centre, Suite 203- 
1110, Govemment St, Victoria, BC V8W 
| ¥2 Canada; modem: 604/595-2300, 
Internet: freenet.victoria.bc.ca 
Wellington Citynet: Wellington City 
Council. PO Box 2199, Wellington, 
New Zealand; modem: 64-4-80 |-3060, 
Intemet: 192.54.130.34 
See the Community Domain 
beginning on page 121 
