228 
Taming Technology 
APPROPRIATE TECHNOLOGY 
VAN ILLICH ONCE 
commented rather 
impolitely, “If you in- 
sist on working with 
the poor, if this is 
ocation, then at least work 
among the poor who can tell you to 
go to hell.” He suggests that you 
work nearer home. When relatively 
rich North Americans work abroad, 
they often do more harm than good, 
especially by exporting our values — 
often the worst ones — into an area 
where they have no natural enemies 
to keep them in balance. | agree; my 
own overseas efforts have produced 
no significant lasting benefits to any- 
one. (Except me: “doing time” is a 
great way to learn.) A contribution 
of my airfare would probably have 
been more effective. Nonetheless, 
there are more and more examples 
of projects where a spirited, humble 
application of expertise has done 
some good; people are learning how 
to help in an effective way at last. The 
most successful projects seem to be 
those that deeply involve local 
people. —]. Baldwin 
VITA 
For twenty-five years, Volunteers in 
Technical Assistance has been a re- 
liable source of expert advice and an 
experienced stack of publications. 
You don’t join VITA as you would the 
Peace Corps (for instance), but you 
can make your special knowledge 
available through them. Their record 
of action is inspiring; see for yourself 
in VITA News. —B 
VITA News 
Vicky Tsiliopoulos, Editor. 
$15/year (4 issues). 1600 Wilson 
Boulevard, Suite 500, Arlington, VA 22209; 
703/276-1800. 
TRANET 
Networking and information exchange 
are increasingly the name of the game, 
and TRANET (from Transnational Net- 
work for Appropriate/Alternative Tech- 
nologies) has been doing them more 
comprehensively than anyone else for 
nearly 20 years. Their lively bimonthly 
newsletter has brief reviews of useful 
books, lots of news from the front, a 
members’ bulletin board, and reader 
commentary — much of it uncompli- 
mentary to the establishment. That 
last characteristic gives it a noticeably 
Seventies character, but the level of in- 
formation exchange is very much of 
today. The TRANET crew is often the 
first to spread the news globally 
among people taking control of their 
own lives. | read every issue. —[B 
TRANET: Membership $30/year (includes 
bimonthly newsletter). PO Box 567, 
Rangeley, ME 04970. 
Appropriate Technology Sourcebook and Microfiche Library 
More than one thousand of the 
proven-best-worldwide AT books are 
sorted out, indexed, and given succinct 
reviews in this most useful book. Even 
more remarkable is that the book also 
serves as the annotated index to a 
matching portable microfiche library 
containing the entire contents of every 
one of those books, illustrations and 
all. That's more than | 40,000 pages! 
The library fits into one sturdy tackle- 
box. A choice of ‘fiche readers is avail- 
able, including 240-volt and | 2-volt 
(as in vehicle battery or solar panel) 
models. The price of the whole set is 
an amazing bargain at less than 5 
percent of the cost of the actual books 
(not to mention the cost of shipping 
and storing them abroad). It's the 
best single idea I've seen in my 
twenty-five years of AT action. If 
you work in developing countries, you 
need one of these sets. Hatched 
and executed by Ken Darrow of 
VIA (Volunteers in Asia). —B 
e 
A Series of Articles on the Use of Bamboo in 
Building Construction, MF 25-658, collected 
by Dr. Jules J. A. Janssen, 1982, 177 pages, 
£4.50 from ITDG. 
This welcome collection assembles a vari- 
ety of practical bamboo articles in one 
place. Preservation techniques are followed 
by sections on the use of bamboo in hous- 
ing, bridges, water supply, and concrete re- 
inforcement. One article explains how to 
calculate the strength of bamboos for 
construction purposes. 
e 
The Rower Pump, MF 14-368, reports and 
brochures, 1984 and later, available from 
Mirpur Agricultural Workshop and Training 
School (MAWTS), Mirpur Section 12, Pallabi, 
Dacca-| 6, Bangladesh; or Mennonite Central 
Committee, 1/1, Block “A” Mohammadpur, 
Dacca, Bangladesh. 
Thousands of low-cost direct action 
handpumps made of pvc pipe are being 
used in Bangladesh for low-lift irrigation of 
small plots. The Rower pump can be easily 
made in developing countries, and the 
farmer can do his/her own simple repairs. 
The pump pays for itself in one crop. 
The extremely low cost of the hand-pump 
(approximately US$15) and pvc tubewell in- 
stallation (approximately US$30-45) and 
the large economic return from small plot 
irrigation together make this technology an 
excellent investment for farmers in areas 
where the water table is shallow (15 feet 
or less). The Rower pump is probably one 
of the most important agricultural tools 
invented in the last 20 years. 
Readers seeking information on the Rower 
pump can write to the manufacturer 
(MAWTS) for a brochure with technical 
Appropriate 
Technology Sourcebook 
Ken Darrow & Mike Saxenian. 
1993; 800 pp. ISBN 0-917704-18-5 
$23.95 ($27.45 postpaid) 
Microfiche Reference Library: $895 
(includes Sourcebook & 1993 Update); 
1993 Update: $200 (includes Sourcebook); 
Fiche reader: $250-$375-$625. 
Postage & handling vary by destination. 
All from Volunteers in Asia/Appropriate 
Technology Project, PO Box 4543, Stan- 
ford, CA 94305; 800/648-8043. 
details. Some of the same material is repro- 
duced in Handpumps Testing and Develop- 
ment: Progress Report on Field and Labo- 
ratory Testing. The results of an extensive 
laboratory test are described in Laboratory 
Testing of Handpumps for Developing 
Countries: Final Technical Report. The 
relevant pages from both of these books 
are reproduced in the A.T. Microfiche 
Library as MF 14-368. 
ITDG 
The Intermediate Technology Develop- 
ment Group of North America, Inc. is 
a child of the original British ITDG 
founded by the late E. F. Schumacher 
of Small Is Beautiful fame (p. 26). 
ITDG has designed and executed 
some of the very best AT projects yet 
seen domestically and worldwide. 
They publish and distribute many of 
the most useful AT books and other 
literature. They're too multifaceted to 
present here in all their glory. If you'd 
like to work with them, give them a 
call. Their publications catalog offers 
entry into what has become a major 
world movement marked by increas- 
ing cooperation and information ex- 
change. It's also a fine source for 
English language versions of in- 
ternational publications. 
ITDG produces a fine magazine, too 
— appropriately called Appropriate 
Technology Journal. —JB 
e 
Unacceptable biogas. The other aspect of 
the growth in information available to us all 
through data bases is that it is not usually 
cross indexed according to the social con- 
text or ‘genetic code’ that produced it. We 
have all heard of the plans available for all 
sorts and conditions of bio-gas digesters, all 
keenly studied by organizations throughout 
the world, and all seeming to reflect a keen 
interest in a usable and sustainable technol- 
ogy suited to the Third World’s mix of re- 
sources. And yet the only places where 
there is widespread use of this technology 
are China and India. 
There is something in the social context of 
biogas technology which makes it seem in- 
appropriate and unacceptable in many 
places where, on the face of it, it would 
seem very relevant. In most of these places 
the reason seems to me very simple — the 
people for whom it is being considered 
don’t like handling shit (and who's to blame 
them?). Rare, however, is the technical 
manual which says that one of the param- 
eters to be considered for using digesters is 
a willingness to handle shit: mostly it’s all 
talk about recycling oil-drums, gas pres- 
sures, ranges of temperature, etc., etc. 
And finally, so much information that be- 
comes available is not involved with looking 
at the actual world of the poor and assess- 
ing the value of practices and knowledge 
which have kept such people going for a 
long time, but in thirsting for new know!- 
edge which, on the face of it, looking at the 
situation of the Third World today, has not 
been of great help. So often the solution to 
a problem of the poor is much more likely 
to be found among slightly less poor people 
in a culturally similar environment in some 
other part of the world who have faced the 
same problem and have found a working 
solution to it. If only new ideas, which are 
often preceded by a literature search, could 
be preceded by a culture search, and pref- 
erably one which is organized along eco- 
logical parameters, since the lives of the 
poor are bound by the natural products 
around them. 
—Appropriate Technology Journal 
Intermediate Technology Develop- 
ment Group: Catalog free. 777 United 
Nations Plaza, Suite 3C, New York, NY 
10017; 212/953-6920. 
Appropriate Technology Journal: $27/ 
year (4 issues). 103-105 Southampton Row, 
London, WC! 4HH, UK. 
The Fail-Safe Society 
NIMBY — Not In My Back Yard — 
is the name for a democratic, 
grassroots, and often vexing social 
movement. As a society, people in 
America don’t seem to be attacking 
technological progress; at least they 
seldom do it effectively. As neighbor- 
hoods, people seem able to halt the 
construction of everything from nuclear 
plants to hospices. Many believe that 
local opposition to scientific or techno- 
logical enterprises is leading to a kind 
of social paralysis. As a society, we 
need major airports, hazardous-waste 
disposal sites, medical research 
centers, AIDS halfway houses. 
Charles Piller started out as a writer 
with attitudes like those | had as a 
reader: that NIMBY is another symp- 
tom of the tragedy of the commons, 
and one of the forces that is leading 
to social breakdown; that uninformed 
Opposition to technology has the po- 
tential for causing more misery than 
a well-managed technological facility. 
When he began to study the spectrum 
of community opposition, Piller changed 
his mind. He has changed mine, too. 
—HLR 
e 
Conventional wisdom, as promoted by 
those who introduce, manage, or profit 
from science and technology, holds that 
Nimbyism is the product of selfish ignorance 
; about risk and that Nimby groups should 
be stamped out before they irreparably 
harm our ability to extend society's tech- 
nical reach and advance our standard of liv- 
ing. When | began this book, in a basic way, 
| agreed with this view. | saw Nimbyism as 
