300 
Political Tools 
RIGHTS 
On Human Rights: The Oxford Amnesty Lectures 1993 
This is an excellent collection of diffi- 
cult questions about human rights. The 
essays are diverse in their approaches 
and styles, and their subjects range 
from the cruelty of children on play- 
grounds to the consequences of 
choices made by govemments. 
The most thought-provoking of these 
is Agnes Heller's discussion of justice 
and the heinous crime. Can such 
crimes be punished? Is it really pos- 
sible to administer justice in the face 
of evil? Evil, Heller says, is different 
from mere badness and weakness, 
and her arguments are convincing. 
In the most beautiful essay here, Jean- 
Francois Lyotard contributes a moving 
meditation on the forms and mean- 
ings of the act of silencing someone. 
He examines that act from play- 
ground ostracism to government cen- 
sorship of minority opinions. It led me 
to think hard about the meaning of 
the silent wars that individuals some- 
times wage in personal relationships. 
There is also a piece by feminist 
Catharine A. MacKinnon. It is an emo- 
tional and touching statement of her 
beliefs that morality and respect for 
others can be legislated. 
This little book is full of ideas that 
seem important to me. 
—Carmen Hermosillo 
e 
After the demise of totalitarianism, it is not 
difficult to distinguish between the originally 
evil and those who became evil through 
secondary infection. The former originate 
the evil maxims, stick to their principles to 
the last, their consciences unruffled, and as- 
cribe the defeat or failure of their principles 
to the weakness of their followers. The fol- 
lowers, by contrast, can get confused, re- 
write their pasts, forget the evil they have 
committed and remember only the evils 
they have suffered; they can slough off their 
totalitarian self. This is how evil could seem 
banal to Hannah Arendt. But evil is not ba- 
nal, even if evil persons become banal after 
the demise of their power base. The soul 
is not healed just because the epidemic has 
passed. The pathetically banal soul does not 
even feel guilty; he or she feels only the re- 
morse of having bet on the wrong horse. 
—Agnes Heller 
e 
Evil is not an accumulated or excessive 
moral badness distinguished from all other 
Both authors come off as trying hard 
to be honest. Both books are oppres- 
sive (the one wniten for prospective cons 
is less so) and filled with contempt 
(the one written for administrators and 
guards is more so) for the big Other. 
You could accuse the author of The 
Big House of a total lack of pity for 
his fellow man. | believe his response 
would be that the inmates he is talk- 
ing about are not his fellow men. Sur- 
viving In Prison is an anecdotal primer 
on doing time: quick sketches of ad- 
ministration and power structure and 
a certain amount of padding — repro- 
ductions of hearing requests, etc. —JD 
e 
Road camps, when an inmate can get 
assigned to them, are a quick way out of 
most prison systems, but the inmates who 
are there are subjected to lengthy work 
hours and a minimum of extra program- 
ming. They are set up as work camps and 
are run as such. . . 
. Inmates dig ditches, 
clear irrigation trenches, and generally 
furnish labor that the highway department 
doesn’t want to be bothered with because 
the task is too time consuming or dirty. An 
inmate serving a long prison sentence would 
not find a road camp or even a medium se- 
curity facility very comfortable. The staffs at 
these institutions are low grade personali- 
ties that are used to handling inmates with 
very little self-respect. Consequently, the 
staff there will treat the inmates accord- 
ingly. A man with a substantial number of 
years to do would quickly get burned out 
with the petty rules and attitudes of the ad- 
ministration, and would either escape, or 
ultimately hurt one of the employees and 
wind up catching more time for it. 
—Surviving In Prison 
e 
Long-term effects of drugs help keep the 
The Big House * Surviving in Prison 
The Big House 
(How American Prisons Work) 
Tony Lesce. 1991; 184 pp. 
ISBN 1-55950-075-| 
$19.95 ($23.95 postpaid) 
Surviving in Prison 
Harold S. Long. 1990; 122 pp. 
ISBN 1-55950-044-| 
$14.95 ($18.95 postpaid) 
both from Loompanics Unlimited, 
PO Box 1197, Port Townsend, WA 98368 
prisoner incapacitated. There are effects 
on the central nervous system, including a 
Parkinson-like disorder called “tardive 
diskinesia.” Neurological side-effects of 
psycho-active drugs have even affected 
prison slang. The “Stelazine shuffle” and 
“Thorazine shuffle” describe the peculiar 
gait of people under the influence of these 
drugs. The benefits of physical incapacita- 
tion, as well as psychic dulling, combine to 
help make those under long-term dosage 
docile and manageable, especially as some 
effects are permanent. —The Big House 
categories of badness by quantity. Evil is 
qualitatively different from the morally bad. 
This qualitative difference has become ex- 
plicit in modern times. . 
. 
. The knowledge 
of moral evil emerges through reflection. 
Where these is no freedom to choose 
principles of action, there can be badness 
but not evil. Moral evil requires a fairly 
sophisticated and consistent system of 
self-justification. —AH 
e 
The human speaker is always afraid that a 
“keep quiet” will debar his words. He com- 
plains of the precariousness of his member- 
ship in the speech community. Even the 
good silence of the writer, the monk, or 
the pupil contains an element of suffering. 
Any banishment is a harm inflicted on those 
who undergo it, but this harm necessarily 
changes to a wrong when the victim is ex- 
cluded from the speech community. For 
the wrong is the harm to which the victim 
cannot testify, since he cannot be heard. 
And this is precisely the case of those to 
whom the right of speech is refused. 
—Jean-Frangois Lyotard 
e 
The abjection suffered in the camps horri- 
On Human Rights 
(The Oxford Amnesty Lectures 1993) 
Stephen Shute & Susan Hurley. Basic Books, 
1993; 262 pp. ISBN 0-465-05223-| 
$25 ($27.75 postpaid) from HarperCollins 
Publishers/Direct Mail, PO Box 588, 
Dunmore, PA 18512; 800/331-3761 
bly illustrates the threat of exclusion which 
weighs on all interlocution. On the school 
playground, the child to whom the others 
say “We're not playing with you” experi- 
ences this unspeakable suffering. He suffers 
a wrong equivalent, on its own scale, to 
a crime against humanity. .. . 
In his analysis of the sublime effect, Edmund 
Burke termed horror the state of mind of a 
person whose participation in speech is 
threatened. —|FL 
Drugs and Rights 
Starting with the question “Do adults 
have a moral right to consume recre- 
ational drugs?” (yes), Douglas Husak 
goes on to define the terms so flexibly 
used, and so widely taken for granted, 
in popular debate. Exactly what is a 
drug? (What makes marijuana a drug 
and alcohol a beverage?) What right 
does the State have to interfere with 
personal autonomy? (What constitutes 
being a danger to oneself or others?) 
! recommend this book to judges and 
lawyers as well as to lay readers. An 
interesting fact not mentioned here is 
that some controlled substances are 
now known to occur naturally in the 
human nervous system. Both N,N- 
dimethyltryptamine (DMT) and 
morphine are present in detectable 
quantities in normal people. The legal 
and biochemical implications of these 
findings remain to be seen. 
A federal judge recently wondered 
whether, in years to come, he and 
his fellow jurists will have to assert the 
Nuremberg Defense — ‘| was only 
following orders” — to justify the 
number of people they are sentenc- 
ing to prison for decades, or for life. 
Good question. —Steven K. Gill 
e 
A federal district court judge, Robert 
Sweet, shocked his colleagues by calling for 
the decriminalization of all illicit drugs. Af- 
ter reciting some of the cost-benefit advan- 
tages of decriminalization, he continued: 
“Cocaine gives a sense of exhilaration, 
heroin a glow, a warmth, and marijuana a 
sense of relaxation and ease. What then is 
wrong?” 
Nonetheless, my attempt to confine the 
context of discussion to the recreational 
use of drugs is not entirely unproblematic. 
Weil has challenged the viability of distinc- 
tions between the several purposes for 
which drugs apparently are consumed. He 
claims that “the desire to alter conscious- 
ness periodically is an innate, normal drive 
analogous to hunger or the sexual drive.” 
The “omnipresence of the phenomenon” of 
drug use in various societies throughout 
human history has led him to conclude that 
“we are dealing... with a biological charac- 
teristic of the species.” Behavior that satis- 
fies a biological need cannot be understood 
as a purely recreational form of activity, 
comparable to scuba diving or mountain 
climbing. 
More recently, a variation of this basic 
theme has been developed by Ronald 
Siegel. Studies of animal behavior persuade 
him that “We must expand the definition of 
self-medication to include drug use for pur- 
poses of intoxication.” Siegel believes that 
even the most dangerous of intoxicants 
really function as medicines. He contends 
that the distinction between medical and 
nonmedical drug use should be dissolved 
in favor of conceptualizing drugs as “adapt- 
ogens,” defined as “substance[s] that help 
people to adjust to changes in their physical 
or physiological environments.” Thus Siegel 
denies a principled distinction between the 
use of “esterene, to alleviate the pain and 
depression of arthritis,” and the use of 
“heroin, to fight the gloom and despair 
of consciousness.” 
Drugs and Rights 
Douglas N. Husak. 1992; 312 pp. 
ISBN 0-521-42727-4 
$17.95 ($19.95 postpaid) from Cambridge 
University Press, 110 Midland Avenue, 
Port Chester, NY 10573; 800/872-7423 
(outside N.Y.) 800/227-0247 (N.Y. only) 
