ORBIDDEN FRUIT grows in every 
garden. 
Inasmall New York City apartment, in 
1965, that garden was my mother’s 
bookshelves. | was thirteen. Nestled in between 
Ulysses and Naked Lunch was a copy of Lady Chatterly’s 
Lover. | chose it because | was tired of Roman mythology, 
and it seemed to me only sensible to keep one’s clothes on 
while eating — after all, you might drip. 
The cover was standard late-fifties pocketbook fare: buxom 
female in off-the-shoulder blouse leans against a tree while a man in rustic 
costume gazes disapprovingly into her cleavage. 
| didn’t know what | was looking for, exactly, but that picture seemed 
promising. 
| took the book back into my bedroom and began to read. 
Beautiful heroine. Witty, incapacitated husband. Large country house. Armies 
of servants, among them the taciturn gamekeeper, surly, standoffish, but wildly 
attractive. Descriptions of melting loins. (Note to self: what are loins?) 
Heroine kneels. A tear falls on her wrist. 
“You shouldn’t cry,” says the gamekeeper. He pets her haunches. (Haunches?) 
He takes her by the hand and leads her to the hut. He forces her to lie down. 
He pulls up her skirt. His hand performs the instinctive caress of blind desire 
while his face is the blank, intractable mask of someone submitting to fate. 
Hubba hubba! 
My white cotton panties dampeneth over. 
Only a few years earlier, a federal district court judge had rescued the book 
from literary Coventry by declaring that in between descriptions of the 
gamekeeper’s beautiful penis and the bucolic English countryside, the novel 
also contained some passages of socially redeeming value. 
I’ve never quite understood that logic. 
What isn’t socially redeeming about a beautiful penis? 
The social-redemption argument continues to dog sexually explicit writing to 
this day, most notably in the continuing attempts to distinguish pornography 
from erotica as separate subgenres. Erotica, it would seem, is sex painted 
against a backdrop that somehow evokes love, while pornography is the old 
genital melt-down described for no other purpose than prurient pleasure. The 
distinction, as always, appears to be an entirely arbitrary one: Yesterday’s 
obscenities are today’s erotica. And today’s smut is tomorrow’s great 
literature. —PDiL 
Magic Carpets 
These can be worn underneath a single-strap dildo harness. Both have the 
same size pad (6'" x 2%"); the length and diameter listed describe the 
———— 
dildo portion. The harness wearer slips the dildo portion of the Magic 
Carpet into her vagina—the ridges provide clitoral stimulation. Many 
women also enjoy using Magic Carpets for solo sex or with a vibrator 
TS-262 Magic Carpet 2 
$28.00 
TS-263 Magic Carpet 3 
$49.00 
3" long, 
4" in diameter 
5" long, 
1'/s" in diameter. 
Whale and Dolphin 
ee 
ene: 
: 
1'/" in diameter 
Elegant, sculptured dildos that look 
A 
#TS-333 $49.00 
as good on the coffee table as they do 
Dolphin 5" long 
| 
in the boudoir 
11" in diameter 
#TS-269 $36.50 
Dildos and Sex Toys 
Dildos have been around for centuries. 
(A dildo harness will hold your dildo in 
place for however long you want.) 
Dildos come in a wide assortment of 
natu- 
ralistic and nonrepresentational styles, and 
in every color of the rainbow. Play with a 
dildo by yourself 
or with a friend; silicone is 
a wonderful medium for good vibrations. 
But be careful with teeth and long finger- 
nails: even a small crack will progress rap- 
idly to a tear. Why cause a rift in a signifi- 
cant relationship? Clean frequently; washing 
with mild nondetergent soap works well. 
As far back as the third century 8.c, 
Miletus — a charming resort town on the 
coast of Asia Minor — had established its 
reputation as the leading purveyor of the 
olisbos to the queens and noblewomen of. 
the civilized world. These ancient dildos 
were made of wood or padded leather, 
and had to be liberally lubricated with 
olive oil before use. 
Most contemporary dildos are made 
of silicone — a resilient, nonporous ma- 
terial that is ideal for sex play because it 
retains body heat. Lubrication is still a 
good idea. 
What do you use dildos for? Well, you 
insert them. In your vagina. In your anus. 
(A special subgenre of the dildo is the 
anal toy or butt plug. The most popular 
of these are diamond-shaped, designed so 
you can insert them inside yourself and 
have your hands free for other pleasures. 
Butt plugs may be made out of vinyl, 
rubber or silicone.) —PDiL 
Sex 
PILLOW BOOKS 
Erotic Literature 
For as long 
as there 
has been 
written lan- 
have been us- 
ing it to describe 
the nuances of 
sexual passion. The earliest 
known erotic writings are descriptions 
of the Sumerian goddess Inanna, in- 
scribed on clay tablets in cuneiform 
script, and dating back roughly 3,750 
years: “My vulva, the horn, the Boat 
of Heaven, is full of eagerness like 
the young moon. My untilled land 
lies fallow.” 
Anais Nin didn’t have anything on the 
ancient Mesopotamians! 
This splendid anthology spans four 
thousand years of 
sensuality, guiding 
its readers on a journey through the 
poetry, religious texts and prose of 
practically every civilization and cul- 
ture, from ancient Greece and Rome 
through China, India, Arabia, and me- 
dieval Europe, to arrive full-circle at 
the frank sensualists of our day. 
Highly recommended. — PDiL 
(From “Figs,” a poem by D.H. Lawrence) 
The proper way to eat a fig, in society 
Is to split it in four, holding it by the stump, 
guage, people 
Erotic Literature 
(Twenty-Four Centuries of Sensual Writing) 
Jane Mills, Editor. 1993; 348 pp. 
ISBN 0-06-270057-X 
$30 ($32.75 postpaid). HarperCollins 
Publishers/Direct Mail, PO Box 588, 
Dunmore, PA 18512; 800/331-3761 
And open it, so that it is a glittering, rosy, 
moist, honied, heavy-petaled four-petaled 
flower. 
Then you throw away the skin 
Which is just like a four-petaled calex, 
After you have taken off the blossom with 
your lips. 
But the vulgar way 
Is just to put your mouth to the crack, and 
take out the flesh in one bite. 
Every fruit has its secret. 
The Gates of Paradise 
Anthologies are like candy samplers: 
they generally include something for 
everyone's taste, and are a good way 
to discover what you like. This collec- 
tion is culled from the best more-or- 
less-contemporary erotica from around 
the world. Authors include Isabel 
Allende, Milan Kundera, Yukio 
Mishima, Doris Lessing, and more 
than two dozen other writers. —PDiL 
e 
| looked at Jesus. He was looking at me. 
And at my breasts. Looking right at them. 
Jesus was sitting there on the sun deck, 
looking at my breasts. 
What should | do? Say excuse me and push 
them back into the kimono? Make a little 
joke of it? Look what the wind blew in, or 
something? Or should | say nothing? Just 
tuck them in as inconspicuously as possible? 
What do you say when a wind comes up 
and blows your kimono open and he sees 
your breasts? . . . 
Jesus must have recognized my confusion, 
because right then he said, quite sincerely 
| thought, “You have nice breasts.” 
“Thanks,” | said. | didn’t know what else to 
say, so | asked him if he’d like more wine. 
—Gloria Sawai 
The Gates of Paradise 
(An Anthology of Erotic Short Fiction) 
Alberto Manguel. C. Potter Books, 1993; 
242 pp. ISBN 0-517-88050-4 
$18 ($20 postpaid). Random House/Order 
Dept., 400 Hahn Road, Westminster, MD 
21157; 800/733-3000 
5 OF 
i THE GATE 
TILIUELA 
mower, 
SLOSTLP 
OTL 
O74 
= 
——= 
Man 
PrTIUL 
197 
