May It Please the Court 
Important hunks of law are here, sig- 
nificant cases and sharp arguments 
and strange excursions into the in- 
ternal contradictions of the American 
Constitution, that sturdy document of 
unexpected perfection: Roe, Gideon, 
the Heart of Atlanta Motel. Most 
astonishing on the six cassettes that 
onginally made up this set were the 
voices of the participants, the florid, 
courtly drawls of the Southern prosecu- 
tors, the sharp bark of impatient jus- 
tices, the odd emphases and asides 
revealing the deep stresses within the 
court. It was the sound of a sincere 
striving for perfection by imperfect 
humans — a very rare thing. 
You can't get the tapes any more 
(try your library). The book is the 
voices stilled, on the one hand, and 
given a lower more lasting resonance 
on the other. —Jon Carroll 
e 
Narrator: Dr. Solomon Grayzel, a Jewish 
scholar, told the lower court that parts of 
the New Testament were “offensive to 
Jewish tradition.” Verses about Jesus as 
Messiah could be “psychologically harmful” 
to Jewish and other non-Christian students. 
Sawyer stressed this testimony. 
Sawyer: The New Testament, the concept 
of Christ, a man who historically lived, as 
being the Son of God, is, as Dr. Grayzel 
testified, to Judaism a blasphemy. This was 
in fact Christ’s crime. It is a blasphemy. You 
can’t gloss this over by saying there's some 
minor differences. He pointed out that 
there’s ridicule of the Jewish hierarchy 
throughout the New Testament. He 
pointed out, and think of it, gentlemen, the 
scene of the trial of Jesus before Pilate, 
where the multitude cries out not for Bar- 
rabas but for Jesus, and Pilate washes his 
hands. And the version exculpates the 
Political Tools 
LAW 
May It Please the Court 
(Transcripts of 23 Live Recordings of Landmark 
Cases as Argued Before the Supreme Court) 
Peter Irons & Stephanie Guitton, editors, 
The New Press. 1993; 375 pp. 
ISBN 1-56584-046-| 
$30 postpaid from W.W. Norton, 800 
Keystone Industrial Park, Scranton, PA 
18512; 800/233-4830 
Romans for the death of Christ. And then 
the Jews say, and they’re so described, they 
say, his blood be upon us and our children. 
And Dr. Grayzel said that sentence has 
been responsible for more anti-Semitism 
than any single sentence in history, and 
| can’t doubt it. 
° 
Narrator: Justice Thurgood Marshall de- 
bated “probable cause” with Reuben Payne. 
Marshall: When did he get probable cause 
to arrest? 
Payne: He received probable cause for ar- 
rest when he turned Terry around and ran 
his hands over the outside of his clothing 
and, feeling a gun in the upper left breast 
pocket, and indicating emphatically at that 
time that, “What | felt was a gun, a 
weapon.” 
Marshall: Well, he didn’t have it, as counsel 
for petitioner says, he didn’t have it when 
he laid hands on him and turned him 
around? 
Payne: | would agree with — he did not 
have probable cause to arrest. (Marshall: 
Right) | would agree that he would have 
probable cause to frisk, or to lay hands on 
him, at this point. 
Marshall: Why? 
Payne: Because of the nature of the circum- 
stances and protection of his own life. 
paper, Nolo News, is excellent and 
also free. —Carmen Hermosillo 
Most of Nolo’s efforts tend to clarify 
legal procedures that are neither very 
complex nor very likely to meet with 
professional opposition. Knowledge- 
able and goodhearted law profession- 
als stress that when the other side has 
unleashed the dogs of 
war, it is folly 
not to retain a good lawyer. But Nolo 
publications give access to some of 
the fundaments of the law, and — 
even better — they may enable you 
to resolve a Situation without recourse 
to litigation. —James Donnelly 
e 
Even when a claim is handled by the books, 
the worker often ends up with the short 
end of the stick. One woman submitted a 
compelling story of how her teenage 
daughter was severely injured while work- 
ing a fast-food restaurant. Although her 
daughter received fine, free medical care, 
the amount of her permanent disability 
compensation was based on her hourly 
wages at the time of the accident — a pal- 
try $4.35 an hour. The award included 
nothing for her pain and suffering and noth- 
ing for her permanent disfigurement. 
What can be done to improve the workers’ 
comp system? Here are some suggestions 
submitted by readers: 
|. Increase benefit levels for injured work- 
ers and pay for the increase by reducing 
insurance companies’ profit margins. 
2. State workers’ comp offices should as- 
sign one person to each case, to assist the 
injured worker and monitor the case. 
3. Every injured worker should be sent to a 
doctor agreed to by the worker and insur- 
ance carrier within a month after the injury 
if the injury may be chronic or permanent. 
This would not only prevent further injury 
but help weed out fraud in the system. 
4. Insurance companies should make fre- 
quent, unannounced visits to the 
employer's place of business to make sure 
that working conditions meet applicable 
laws and that the employees’ work habits 
are safe. 
5. Streamline the system so that bills for 
medical treatment and physical therapy are 
paid on time, and workers aren't on the 
hook for paying these bills. —Nolo News 
Nolo Press: 950 Parker Street, Berkeley, 
CA 94710; 800/992-6656 or 510/549-1976. 
Narrator: Marshall shifted his questions. 
Marshall: Mr. Payne, in this case this arrest- 
ing officer testified, did he not, that he had 
never seen anybody “case a joint”? 
Payne: That is correct; he did so testify. 
Marshall: He also testified that he had been 
on that same area for some thirty years, 
doing the following things: checking for 
pickpockets and shoplifters? 
Payne: That is correct. 
Marshall: So where did he get his expertise 
about somebody's about to commit a 
robbery? 
Payne: | think that he would get his exper- 
tise by virtue of the fact that he had been a 
member of the police department for forty 
years, and by being a member of the police 
department for forty years, | am quite sure 
that, even if by osmosis, some knowledge 
would have to come to him of the various 
degrees of crime. 
Marshall: Now we're getting intuition by 
osmosis? (laughter) 
American Broadcasting and the First Amendment 
In the old days, in England, printers 
had to have a license from the King in 
order to do business. This system of 
licensing made it extremely difficult 
for the English press to play any role 
as a critic of govemment actions or 
government officials. 
We learned enough from the English 
experience of 
press licensing to estab- 
lish press freedom under the First 
Amendment. But there has long been 
d Curious exception to First Amend- 
ment protections of speech and press 
— the licensing of broadcasting. Lucas 
A. Powe tells the story of broadcast |i- 
censing in the US, giving special atten- 
tion to the questionable legal argu- 
ments used to justify regulation. It's 
hard to read his book without reaching 
the conclusion that the Federal Com- 
munications Commission's ability to 
regulate content on the airwaves 
should be abolished altogether. 
—Mike Godwin 
Legal Breakdown 
My lawyer pal maintains that many 
of the intricacies of law are there for 
good reason, and that the price to be 
paid for proceeding in ignorance of 
the system can be terribly steep. But 
Legal Breakdown is worth a look, as 
a knowledgeable philippic against our 
convoluted system and as a manifesto 
for legal reform. —JD [with the reluc- 
tant help of Anita Susan Brenner] 
am 
jbec Al 
et RK OR LEGAL EI 
pee 
a cia sera 
fer ree b8ihe 
Legal Breakdown 
(Forty Ways to Fix Our Legal System) 
Stephen Elias et al. 1990; 88 pp. 
ISBN 0-87337-136-4 
$8.95 ($12.95 postpaid). Nolo Press, 
950 Parker Street, Berkeley, CA 94710; 
800/992-6656 or 510/549-1976 
American Broadcasting 
and the First Amendment 
Lucas A. Powe, Jr. University of California 
Press, 1987; 295 pp. ISBN 0-520-06467-4 
$13 ($16 postpaid) from California/ 
Princeton Fulfillment Services, 1445 Lower 
Ferry Road, Ewing, NJ 08618; 800/777-4726 
e 
The Commission was telling licensees to 
ban countercultural music or risk losing 
a license. And the court, part and parcel of 
the generation looking aghast at a culture 
in revolution, refused to see what could 
not have been clearer. The Commission’s 
lawyers deserve credit for bailing it out, but 
only a willful neglect of the factual setting 
by the D.C. Circuit allowed the lawyers’ 
version to prevail. 
Amazingly, if the Commission thought its 
double-barreled actions on indecency and 
drug lyrics would clear the air and make 
radio safe for middle America again, it was 
in for a huge surprise. Between June 1972 
and June 1973 the complaints to the Com- 
mission concerning “obscenity-indecency- 
profanity” took a fifteenfold jump, outstrip- 
ping by over ten thousand the complaints 
received on all other topics during the 
period. A new radio format had hit 
the air, and it was a winner... . 
“Topless radio,” a live talk show, featured 
telephone conversations with a male host 
in which the caller, typically female, would 
disclose intimate personal and sexual details 
over the air. It arrived first, as always, in 
California, but spread like wildfire. 
299 
