Sustainability 
FARM SURVIVAL: FARMING FOR THE FUTURE 
Passing Down the Farm: 
The Farm Crisis 
Even the most successful family farm 
has to deal with the problems of one 
generation handing off to the next. 
Grandpa and Dad tend to be rugged 
individualists who know just how to 
do everything. Where do the younger 
| folks fit in? And what about the pres- 
sure to cash in from off-farm family 
members, who may neither benefit 
from nor appreciate the intangible 
advantages of farm life? 
We are all entangled in the complexi- 
ties of family life, but with a multimil- 
lion-dollar business in the mix, things 
can get really difficult. Very reassuring 
to find this map through the maze, 
from some people who have seen 
it all. —Karen Van Epen 
e 
Farm ownership can be like sailing in rough 
weather. The wind and the speed are ex- 
hilarating but only if you’re in control. With 
the family involved intimately in the opera- 
tion, the deck can get crowded with a 
sometimes unruly mob. It’s bad enough 
when the crew isn’t organized to work to- 
gether, but it can get downright dangerous 
when people start fighting over control of 
| the helm. 
Small wonder everybody starts dreaming 
about solitude and peace. 
| Families who own farms travel together, 
out in some pretty rough weather. They do 
it day after day, season after season. It’s 
tough to be stoic — let alone enthusiastic 
— when your own crew seems determined 
to turn you broadside to the waves. For 
those farming families who manage them- 
selves well, the journey can be an enticing, 
if risky, challenge. For those who are 
poorly organized, however — as far too 
many are — the experience can be hell. 
Passing Down the Farm 
(The Other Farm Crisis) 
Donald J. Jonovic & Wayne D. Messick. 
1991; 209 pp. ISBN 0-915607-08-5 
$24.95 ($28.95 postpaid) from Jamieson 
Press, PO Box 909, Cleveland, OH 44120; 
216-752-7970 
Saving the Farm:A 
Handbook for Conserving 
Agricultural Land 
Our continually expanding cities 
gobble up farms at an alarming rate. 
That process involves so many com- 
missions and regulations that even 
well-informed activist groups have 
trouble negotiating the labyrinth. 
The American Farmland Trust is the 
foremost authority on preserving agri- 
cultural lands. Their handbook pin- 
points resource information and orga- 
nizations. Based upon the Trust's 
experience in California, it shows us 
how to implement conservation pro- 
grams by networking with local govern- 
ment agencies. Private options for land 
conservation are also covered. De- 
tailed, easy-to-follow, effective strate- 
gies are outlined in a meticulously 
organized format. Indispensable for 
local governments, landowners, and 
private organizations interested in land 
use issues. —Karen Van Epen 
e 
A conservation easement is a voluntary 
agreement between a landowner and a 
qualified conservation organization. This 
agreement legally restricts uses of the land, 
such as building houses on it, that would 
reduce or destroy its potential for agricul- 
tural production. A conservation easement 
can also be use to conserve other natural 
resources, such as soil, water quality, wild- 
life and scenic values of the land. The prin- 
cipal objective of an agricultural conserva- 
tion easement is to safeguard the 
productivity of the farmland, and the integ- 
rity of the agricultural operation. 
Saving the Farm 
(A Handbook for Conserving 
Agricultural Land) 
American Farmland Trust. 1990. 
$20 ($22.50 postpaid) from American 
Farmland Trust Western Office, 1949 5th 
Street, Suite 101, Davis, CA 95616; 
916/753-1073 
Michael 
Ableman 
See The Journal of Soil and \ 
Water Conservation on p. 88. 
Soil and Water Quality” 
Agricultural practices can wreak havoc 
with our nation’s wealth of rich soil 
and abundant water. Every day the 
news makes us more aware of the in- 
creased degradation of our resources: 
polluted wells, flooded river channels, 
reduced farm productivity, poisoned 
wildlife. The National Research Council 
documents and quantifies these prob- 
lems here, offering an agenda for long- 
term conservation. —Karen Van Epen 
e 
National policy should seek to (1) conserve 
and enhance soil quality as a fundamental 
first step to environmental improvement; 
(2) increase nutrient, pesticide, and irriga- 
tion use efficiencies in farming systems; (3) 
increase the resistance of farming systems 
to erosion and runoff, and (4) make greater 
use of field and landscape buffer zones. 
e 
Although erosion processes can be com- 
plex, the principles of controlling erosion 
are relatively simple. Effective water ero- 
sion control requires simultaneous efforts 
to increase the degree to which and the 
length of the season during which the soil is 
covered by plants or plant residues and to 
decrease the volume and energy of runoff 
water. Effective wind erosion control also 
depends on increased amounts of soil 
cover and reductions in the energy of wind 
that is in contact with soil particles. 
Soil and Water Quality 
(An Agenda for Agriculture) 
National Research Council Committee on 
Long-Range Soil and Water Conservation 
Policy. 1993; 420 pp. ISBN 0-309-04933-4 
$59.95 ($63.95 postpaid) from National 
Academy Press, Box 285, Washington, DC 
20055; 800/624-6242 
Spanish in the Field 
It's a fact of 
life that most 
farmworkers in the West speak Span- 
ish. Sign language and Spanglish just 
don't cover the fine points of pruning, 
mechanics or soil preparation, making 
it hard on English-only farmers. Orga- 
nized around farm tasks and situa- 
tions, this set can quickly bring you 
up to speed. —Howard Beeman 
ANI! 1 
Spanish in the Field 
(Practical Spanish for Ranchers, 
Farmers, or Vintners) 
Carmen P. Clough. 1983; 256 pp. 
ISBN 0-932857-02-7 
$23.95 ($27.95 postpaid) 
Book, dictionary and 4 audio tapes, 
ISBN 0-914330-59-4, $59.95 ($63.95 
postpaid); AgAccess, PO Box 2008, 
Davis, CA 95617; phone 916/756-7177, 
fax 916/756-7188 
Books 
Preserving Family Lands: Essential Tax 
Strategies for the Landowner: Steven Small, 
1992. Landowner Planning Center, PO Box 
4508, Boston, MA 02101-4508; 617/728-9799. 
How to avoid the pitfalls. 
Fertile Soil: A Grower’s Guide to Organic 
& Inorganic Fertilizers: Robert Parnes, 1990. 
AgAccess. Hard-to-find information. 
Alternative Agriculture: |989, National 
Academy Press. An overview of alternative farm- 
ing practices and a report on specific techniques. 
The New Farm Magazine of Regenerative 
Agriculture: PO Box 7306, Red Oak, IA 
51591; 800/365-3276. Consistently the place 
to find the practical answers about how to put 
people, profit and biological permanence back 
into farming. 
Farming in Nature’s Image 
It's an American tradition that the 
most original thinking comes from 
those outside the academic pale. 
Since 1976, the Land Institute in Kan- 
sas has been investigating a system of 
agriculture based on the concept that 
farms should mimic the ecosystems in 
which they exist. Research has cen- 
tered primarily around temperate 
grain production using perennial seed 
crops, with the prairie as a model. 
Some potential problems attend a 
polyculture of perennial crops. Must 
we sacrifice high yields? How to calcu- 
late soil nutrient losses? The Institute 
tackles such questions in the search 
for long-range solutions to the prob- 
lems of modem agriculture. 
The Institute does not confine itself to 
this research, however. Its chief 
spokesman, Wes Jackson, is one of 
the most eloquent and persuasive pro- 
ponents of 
sustainable agriculture. 
This volume includes the arguments 
leveled by Jackson and others against 
industrial agriculture, following up with 
this new approach to solving these 
problems. —Karen Van Epen 
e 
Over a short 100 years of applying mono- 
culture farming to the native prairies of 
North America, 50 percent of the topsoil’s 
latent productivity has slipped away. In con- 
trast, the native prairie built and maintained 
soil and supported large populations of 
grazers. Perhaps before the remaining 50 
percent of latent soil productivity is used 
up, a model for the future of North 
America’s breadbasket, a model that 
mimics the native vegetation, should 
be considered. 
e 
Our agricultural science institutions are 
now and have always been closely aligned 
with industry. From their inception, the 
public agricultural research institutions in 
