208 
Family 
SPIRITUALITY 
Gently Lead 
The author herself gently leads the 
reader into the never-finished process 
of apprehending the ineffable; the 
book's gift is in helping you not only to 
become comfortable with, but actually 
to embrace the Mystery. The format is 
as varied as the path itself — poems, 
meditations, essays, anecdotes — 
which suggests that one should not be 
attached to form, but engaged with 
heart. 
Berends has worked out some of the 
big questions for herself, but she 
doesn’t force them down your throat; 
her main mission is simply to invite 
you to enter deeply into an openness 
that makes finding things out more 
possible. Her faith, not just in the Di- 
vine but in the likelihood that a useful 
truth will reveal itself to you, is most 
reassunng. | can’t recommend this 
book too highly. —PC 
e 
It is a little known fact that the real busi- 
ness of parenthood is the upbringing of the 
parent. Children will value what we value 
and rely on what we rely on. So beware. Be 
aware. Don’t look for much technique in 
these pages. This is not a method. It is a 
catalog of surprising moments intended 
only to demonstrate the possibilities of 
God-reliant parenthood, in which it is seen 
that God is the parent, and both parent and 
child are God’s children. 
The little we teach our children about God 
is almost a side issue. In a way the less said 
about God, the better. And then it must 
not be religious, or the children will find 
God irrelevant. It must not be preachy, or 
the children will find God trivial. It must 
not me “should-ful” or they will resist, 
rebel, and reject. Let God be God's idea, 
occuring spontaneously and responsively to 
you and your children together. 
Gently Lead 
Polly Berends. 
HarperPerennial, 
1991, 192 pp. 
GENTLY. 
PeAD 
rw 10 TEACH YOUR 
ISBN 0-06-092266-4 
campRen ABUT GOD 
$10 ($12.75 postpaid) 
WHILE FINDING OUT 
from HarperCollins 
FOR YOURSELF 
Publishers/Direct 
Mail, PO Box 588, 
ar Basis Benes 
Dunmore, PA 18512; 
800/331-3761 
NLESS YOUR FAMILY is already firmly established in a | 
spiritual tradition or practice, this is a tricky one, especially for 
boomer parents. You may have spent decades sorting out your 
own metaphysics, but what are you going to provide for your 
kids as they start sorting it out? Many parents find this one of 
the most elusive tasks facing them. Here are the best resources we’ve found 
in the ongoing effort to plot our family’s spiritual coordinates. —PC 
Something More 
Like Polly Berends, the author knows 
that to nurture your child's sense of 
Spirituality, you first have to cultivate it 
in yourself; her book is an excellent 
compendium of observations and ex- 
ercises for doing so. Lyrically and with 
real heart, Jean Fitzpatrick nails all the 
details. Her narrative's probing ques- 
tions give focus the parent-reader's 
philosophical inventory-taking. This ar- 
ticulation of significant experiences 
and deeply held beliefs will form the 
basis of any program of “spiritual nur- 
ture” you might provide your family. 
Fitzpatrick also provides a topnotch 
resource list of books, videotapes and 
audio recordings. First-rate. 
Generation To Generation, a network 
founded by Fitzpatrick to help parents 
“share their thoughts, experiences, 
and challenges,” publishes a newslet- 
ter and provides access to the work- 
shops she holds at churches, syna- 
gogues and schools around the 
country. —PC 
e 
By adolescence, the child will enter what 
Fowler calls the “synthetic-conventional” 
stage of faith and base her worldview on 
what she knows from personal relation- 
ships. Now she understands beliefs and val- 
ues as being part of what “kind of person” 
one is, and mirrors the spirituality she sees 
around her. The danger of this stage is 
twofold: Her “spirituality” may be a reflec- 
tion of values (those of the drug culture, 
consumerism, satanic cults, etc.) that will 
ultimately fail to sustain her. Or, if she is 
part of an institutional church, at some 
point (usually after a personal disappoint- 
ment) she may decide that she is no longer 
“part of the group” and will discard her 
spirituality altogether. 
Most people remain at this conventional 
stage, according to Fowler, for a lifetime; 
we affiliate with a particular religion or 
group because that’s what “people like us” 
are supposed to do. If we are to help our 
child grow beyond conventional thinking 
and own her spirituality, we need to offer 
her the critical tools to begin to do so. We 
will need to be sure, in a youth group set- 
ting or among peers, that she has access to 
adults who are willing really to listen as she 
shares her own experiences and relects on 
how she has come to them. Ina 
nonjudgmental way, they can help her con- 
nect her own life with the stories and vi- 
sions of generations past. Only then will 
her spirituality continue to deepen. 
6 
Talking to Your Child About God 
A very direct, straight-to-the-point, yet 
also thoughtful step-by-step plan for 
broaching the subject of God and reli- 
gion. David Heller, a Bostonbased psy- 
chologist, has spent a lot of time with 
schoolchildren, encouraging them to 
write letters to and draw pictures of 
God, so he has a firm understanding 
of how they come to the subject. 
What | like best about his approach is 
that it makes tolerance and respect of 
others’ (including your kids'!) beliefs 
paramount. Not for the dogma- 
afflicted. —PC 
e 
Some parents do not want to express their 
own beliefs to their children. Often, their 
own parents were dogmatic and domineer- 
ing, and they do not want to repeat such a 
pattern. Afraid to impose religious imagery 
on their children, they also miss out on ex- 
changing ideas with their youngsters, and 
their parent-child relationship suffers as a 
consequence. 
Other parents inundate their youngsters 
with religious ideas and don’t allow their 
children to think and speak for themselves. 
They feel they must protect their child 
from incorrect or immoral ideas by teach- 
ing a set way of living. Don’t be overly shy 
or unduly dogmatic with your child. Try to 
strike a balance between revealing your 
own beliefs and eliciting your child’s ideas, 
If you can accomplish that, your child will 
learn to appreciate and respect your views 
as well as his or her own. 
Talking to Your Child 
About God 
(A Book for Families of All Faiths): David 
Heller. 1990, Bantam Books, Out of Print. 
What is God?: Etan Boritzer. 1990, Firefly 
Books Ltd. 
Kid-friendly, playfully illustrated, ecumenical and 
finally, warmly mystical. Good for reading to/ 
with kids five to ten. 
Starbright (Meditations for Children): Maureen 
Garth. 1991, HarperSanFrancisco. 
Moonbeam: Maureen Garth. 1993, 
HarperSanFrancisco. 
With Garth's soft-touch visualization exercises, 
you can tuck your child’s mind and soul in for 
the night, surrounded by images of resplendent 
gardens, fluffy clouds and guardian angels. Great 
for helping kids three to eight feel safe and start 
a restful sleep. 
Aa 
Meditation for Children : Deborah Rozman. 
1989, Planetary Publications. 
How to teach concentration, re- 
laxation, meditation and yoga to 
children, from the “very young 
— prenatal to five years” up 
to age fifteen. A classic of 
its kind; the only book of 
its kind. 
“Spirituality,” pp. 32-33. 
Something 
More 
(Nurturing Your 
Child’s Spiritual 
Growth) 
Jean Fitzpatrick. Pen- 
guin Books, 1992; 
236 pp. 
ISBN 0-14-016951-2 
$11 ($13 postpaid) 
from Penguin USA/ 
Consumer Sales, 120 
Woodbine Street, 
Bergenfield, NJ 
07621; 800/253-6476 
Do Children Need Religion? 
The author essentially answers her 
own question: “No.” | think she may 
be missing something (not that I've got 
it all worked out), but her consider- 
ation of the question is very useful for 
parents who consider themselves ex- 
somethings — people who want to 
give their children a moral upbringing 
to their children outside of a specifi- 
cally religious framework. It's well-writ- 
ten and provocative, and her discus- 
sions of identity, culture and tradition 
are especially insightful. This book is 
especially valuable for those who 
are consitutionally skittish around 
religion, yet engaged with moral- 
spirtual-philosophical issues as 
individuals and parents, —PC 
e 
Whether our children will prove any better 
or worse than their parents or previous 
generations trailing backward into history is 
probably a matter beyond demonstrating. 
But | think an argument can be made that 
their understanding of good and bad will be 
different from ours, in ways subtle and pro- 
found. Our moral obligations as children 
were by definition minor and personal: we 
were told we had responsibility for our 
own souls — for not lying, cheating, steal- 
ing toys from the five-and-dime. We have 
told our children that their moral burden is 
the world itself: to insure peace, to guaran- 
tee justice, to free the oppressed and re- 
deem the bleeding earth. We should not be 
surprised if their moral imaginations as- 
sume a global and apocalyptic cast. 
GHILDREN, 
neo Raicion? 
MARTHA FAY 
Do Children Need Religion? 
Martha Fay. Pantheon Books, 1993; 237 pp. 
ISBN 0-679-42054-| 
$23 ($25 postpaid) from Random House/ 
Order Dept., 400 Hahn Road, Westminster, 
MD 21157; 800/733-3000 
