| had never seen a patient’s social life 
reshaped so rapidly and dramatically. Low 
self-worth, competitiveness, jealousy, poor 
interpersonal skills, shyness, fear of intimacy 
— the usual causes of social awkwardness 
— are so deeply ingrained and so difficult 
to influence that ordinarily change comes 
gradually if at all. But Tess blossomed 
all at once. 
e 
After about eight months off medication, 
Tess told me she was slipping. “I’m not my- 
self,” she said. New union negotiations 
were under way, and she felt she could use 
the sense of stability, the invulnerability to 
attack, that Prozac gave her. Here was a di- 
lemma for me. Ought | to provide medica- 
tion to someone who was not depressed? 
> Peter ). 
keamet 
Listening to Prozac 
(A Psychiatrist Explores Antidepressant 
Drugs and the Remaking of the Self) 
Peter Kramer. Viking, 1993; 409 pp. 
ISBN 0-14-015940-1 
$11.95 ($13.95 postpaid) from Penguin 
USA/Consumer Sales, |20 Woodbine 
Street, Bergenfield, NJ 07621; 800/253-6476 
Health 
PSYCHOLOGICAL SELF-CARE 
| could give myself reason enough — con- 
strue it that Tess was sliding into relapse, 
which perhaps she was. In truth, | assumed 
| would be medicating Tess’s chronic condi- 
tion, call it what you will: heightened aware- 
ness of the needs of others, sensitivity to 
conflict, residual damage to self-esteem — 
all odd indications for medication. | dis- 
cussed the dilemma with her, but then | 
did not hesitate to write the prescription. 
Who was | to withhold from her the boun- 
ties of science? Tess responded again as she 
had hoped she would, with renewed con- 
fidence, self-assurance, and social comfort. 
e 
| wondered whether we were ready for 
“cosmetic psychopharmacology.” It was 
my musings about whether it would be ko- 
sher to medicate a patient like Tess in the 
absence of depression that led me to coin 
the phrase. Some people might prefer phar- 
macologic to psychologic self-actualization. 
Psychic steroids for mental gymnastics, 
medicinal attacks on the humors, antiwall- 
flower compound — these might be hard 
to resist. Since you only live once, why not 
do it as a blonde? Why not as a peppy 
blonde? Now that questions of personality 
and social stance have entered the arena of 
medication, we as a society will have to 
decide how comfortable we are with using 
chemicals to modify personality in useful, 
attractive ways. We may mask the issue by 
defining less and less severe mood states 
as pathology, in effect saying, “If it responds 
to an antidepressant, it’s depression.” Al- 
ready, it seems to me, psychiatric diagnosis 
had been subject to a sort of “diagnostic 
bracket creep”: the expansion of categories 
to match the scope of relevant medications. 
Ea 
iM 
D 
R 
(Eve Movement DESENSITIZATION AND REPROCESSING) 
Intractable nightmares, flashbacks, 
and intrusive memories have long 
afflicted people who suffered 
trauma — in warfare, and through 
rape, incest, mugging, and torture. 
Nothing has seemed to help much. 
Psychotherapists were frustrated, 
and neurobiologists speculated that 
a single instance of overwhelming 
terror could create permanent 
changes in brain chemistry. But 
in 1987, a California psychologist 
named Francine Shapiro came 
across an odd technique that 
rapidly takes the charge out 
of traumatic memories. 
The client calls to mind the trauma 
and its related images, thoughts, 
and body feelings. Then the ther- 
apist moves her fingers back and 
forth across the client’s field of vi- 
sion about thirty times, making the 
client’s eyes track back and forth. 
At this point, something myster- 
ious occurs. Images, memories, as- 
sociations, thoughts, emotions flip 
rapidly through the client’s mind, 
like Freudian free association at 
breakneck speed. Seemingly 
hardwired thought patterns — 
“It was my fault,” “I’m helpless” — 
turn out to be software, after all. 
Afterward, many clients find that 
their nightmares and intrusive 
memories go away. 
Some caveats: This is not a self- 
help tool. It requires a trained and 
licensed psychotherapist because 
it can bring back memories with 
overwhelming vividness. It works 
most dramatically with otherwise 
healthy people who have suffered 
a single trauma. It takes more time 
— from four sessions to a year 
or more — for people who have 
been repeatedly traumatized. 
EMDR doesn’t work for every- 
body, and it can’t do everything. 
Incest survivors, for example, may 
need to learn about assertiveness 
or sexuality, or job and social skills, 
once they are no longer preoccu- 
pied with past horrors. But EMDR 
can clear a space in the brain so 
that new learning can take place. 
Weekend trainings cost about $300 
and are open only to licensed 
therapists. —Katy Butler 
For information on EMDR: 408/372-3900; PO Box 51010, Pacific Grove, CA 93950-6010. 
— 
You Mean I Don’t Have to Feel This Way? 
Antidepressants freed the author's 
daughter from ten years of recurrent, 
disabling depressions and allowed 
her to live a happy and fulfilling life. 
Depression, 
f EA 
You Mean I Don’t 
Have to Feel This Way? 
(New Help for Depression, 
Anxiety, and Addiction) 
Colette Dowling. Bantam Books, 
1991; 293 pp. ISBN 0-553-37169-X 
$11.95 ($14.45 postpaid) from Bantam, 
Doubleday, Dell/Fulfillment Dept., 2451 
S. Wolf Road, Des Plaines, IL 60018; 
800/223-6834 
Inspired to research the world of psy- 
chiatric drugs, review the relevant jour- 
nals and talk with leaders in the field, 
Colette Dowling produced a hope- 
filled book. —LE 
e 
Before Gabrielle was evaluated, she had 
said to me at the end of one of her bad 
days, “I wish there were a pill.” And then, 
with a little smile, she’d added, “Of course, 
| know that’s a copout.” 
e 
If mood disorders are biological in origin, 
why is psychotherapy necessary at all? . . 
. 
Frederick Goodwin, M.D., of the NIMH, 
notes that while biology is at their core, 
these illnesses manifest in ways that “are 
behavioral and psychological, with changes 
in perception, attitudes, personality, mood, 
and cognition. Therapy can be of unique 
value to persons undergoing such devastat- 
ing changes in the way they perceive them- 
selves and are perceived by others.” 
The Feeling Good Handbook 
While important new developments in 
the medical treatment of psychological 
problems have taken place over the 
last several decades, there have also 
been important developrnents in non- 
drug treatment. One of these new 
therapeutic approaches, Cognitive 
Therapy, has become a major in- 
fluence in psychotherapy. Instead of 
focusing on the resolution of deep un- 
conscious conflicts, Cognitive Therapy 
holds that your thoughts, attitudes, 
and beliefs create your moods. Origi- 
nally developed to combat depression, 
Cognitive Therapy has now developed 
approaches for a variety of psycho- 
logical problems. Cognitive Therapy is 
typically short-term and highly focused, 
e 
A panic attack is usually triggered by a 
negative thought or a frightening day- 
dream. Once a panic attack develops, your 
thoughts, feelings, and physical symptoms 
feed each other ina 
vicious cycle... . 
Your panic is triggered by your negative 
thoughts. Your heart pounds and your 
thoughts race as adrenaline pours into 
your blood. These sensations alarm you 
and you think, “Gee, something must really 
be wrong.” This thought creates even more 
fear and frightening physical symptoms. 
At the same time, your negative thoughts 
and feelings feed each other. You feel so 
anxious and tense that it seems that some- 
thing dreadful must be wrong. After all, 
why would you feel so frightened if you 
weren't in real danger? This is called “emo- 
tional reasoning,” because you take your 
emotions as evidence for the way things 
really are. 
Finally, your actions also make things 
worse. If you think you’re dying or cracking 
up, you may crawl into bed with the lights 
off and try to hang on for dear life. This is 
like a sensory deprivation experiment, and 
it lets your fantasies run wild! You feel 
abnormal and impaired. This convinces 
you that there must be something ter- 
ribly wrong. 
and requires that the patient do 
homework between sessions 
The Feeling Good Handbook is an 
informative, readable self-help tool for 
the layperson. It covers the treatment's 
application to depression, anxiety, 
panic, phobias, procrastination and 
relationship problems. Set up as a 
workbook, it presents the concepts 
and techniques of Cognitive Therapy 
through exercises, self-tests, and 
forms, —LE 
The Feeling Good Handbook 
David D. Burns. Plume Books, 1990; 
ISBN 0-452-26174-0 
$14 ($16 postpaid) from Penguin USA/ 
Consumer Sales, 120 Woodbine Street, 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621; 800/253-6476 
ii 
177 
