==> 
Sustainability 
RELEAF AND FIRES 
/ 
Richard St. Barbe Baker was a man 
ahead of his time — so far ahead 
that now, over a decade after his 
death, the reforestation concepts 
he was preaching sixty years ago are 
just beginning to enter the popular 
consciousness. He traveled the globe 
teaching people the importance of 
planting trees, and his description 
of forests as the lungs of 
the earth 
anticipated in a conceptual way the 
Gaia Theory debated today. It's fair 
to call him a pioneer of environmental 
restoration. 
The book Man of the Trees is a collection of 
St. Barbe Baker's short writings, taken from 
seven of 
his many books. The video of 
the 
same name is a documentary of his life; it 
includes a great sequence with him hugging a 
big tree as he explains that he does this daily 
as a way of gathering energy and charging up 
his batteries. Who knows — in another sixty 
years, maybe we'll understand that too. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Global ReLeaf/American Forests 
CIB 
From America's oldest conservation or- 
ganization, tree love grows. Their multi- 
branched approach includes: 
s the Global ReLeaf Heritage Forest 
Projects, which restore public forests 
damaged by hurricanes, strip mining, 
fires, gypsy moths, anything. Among 
their twenty-one heartfelt projects are 
efforts to restore jack pines for the en- 
dangered Kirtland's warbler (Michigan) 
and acacia koa in the Hakalau forests 
(Hawaii) to save habitat destroyed by 
hurricanes; 
* the Global ReLeaf International 
Program, in Latin America and Europe; 
¢ the Forest Policy Center, with its list 
of great publications; 
*:Cool.Communities — a project to 
reduce the urban heat-island effect 
and carbon dioxide; 
Fire in America 
Amenica is rethinking fire — when we 
want it, how intense we want it, and 
when to suppress it. Ranchers and 
prairie-restorers, as well as some for- 
esters, have rediscovered its benefits. 
But the Forest Service has exploited 
fear of fire to allow abusive logging, 
which they call “fuel reductions” or 
“salvage logging.” And insurance com- 
panies have become neurotic about 
fire-prone chaparral (read: Malibu) — 
“We won't insure preventive burns to 
lower fuel loads, because they might 
escape and burn homes. But we will 
pay through the teeth when a more 
intense fire levels hundreds of homes.” 
Fire In America coolly wades through 
this historic transition. Perhaps more 
than you want to know, it is loaded 
with firefighting techniques, fire ecol- 
ogy, fire politics, fire regimes. But it's 
as captivating as fire coals pulsing late 
at night. —PW 
e 
Fire is an event, not an element. It exists 
within a fire environment, without which it 
would perish. To modify that environment 
is to change the nature of fire. Equally, to 
change the nature of fire is to modify the 
fire environment. The fire regime fash- 
ioned by the industrial revolution is a novel 
one, and the assimilation of fire required 
new definitions and new prescriptions for 
fire’s use and suppression. 
e 
A prominent function of rivers is to trans- 
port debris. A dam impounds the flow of 
sediment, and silting ultimately renders the 
dam useless. Similarly, a function of wild- 
land fire is to decompose forest litter. But 
success in “damming” all wildland fires only 
AMERICAN 
< FORESTS 
Global ReLeaf/American Forests 
Membership $30/year from American 
Forests, PO Box 2000, Washington, DC 
20013; 800/368-5748. 
¢ a National Register of Big Trees 
(since giants impress humans more 
than mixed-age forests). 
If your community wants to restore 
a forest or plant trees, call Global 
ReLeaf. Advocacy, action, and educa- 
tion for reforestation have deep roots 
and a huge canopy. —Peter Warshall 
Your membership also gets you Ameri- 
can Forests — an excellent, absorbing 
bimonthly magazine. —J. Baldwin 
Orner Fire ano Lire Resources 
The Simple Act of Planting a Tree: Andy 
Lipkis & Katie Lipkis. 1990, Jeremy P. Tarcher, 
Inc. In addition to the urban forestry books of 
Global Releaf, this is the best book on urban for- 
estry. TreePeople planted a million trees in Los 
Angeles in the early 1980s. Their organizational 
and practical skills shine. 
International Association of Wildland Fire: 
PO Box 328, Fairfield, WA 99012; 800/697-3443. 
The flaming firelover’s cauldron of books, videos, 
software. 
FIREBASE: U. S. Forest Service Interagency 
Fire Center, 3833 S. Development Avenue, 
Boise, ID 83705-5354. The US Forest Service da- 
tabase with searches, abstracts and copies. 
Young Men and Fire: Norman MacLean. 1992, 
University of Chicago Press. Not for restoration 
or sustainability — just to know the haunt of 
death by fire. 
Today it is the duty of every thinking being 
to live and to serve not only his own day 
and generation, but also generations un- 
born, by helping to restore and maintain 
the green glory of the forests of the earth. 
Man of the Trees 
(Selected Writings of Richard St. Barbe Baker) 
Karen Gridley, Editor. 1993; 128 pp. ISBN 0-89815-549-5 
$9.95 ($13.45 postpaid). Ten Speed Press, PO Box 7123, 
Berkeley, CA 94707; 800/841-2665 
Man of the Trees (The Life of Richard St. Barbe Baker): 
25m VHS video. Item #881. $19.98 ($23.73 postpaid). 
Music for Little People, PO Box 1460, Redway, CA 95560; 
800/727-2233. 
impounds this litter with its nutrients into a 
large reservoir of fuels, slowing down the 
growth of many ecosystems and making 
possible future fires of catastrophic inten- 
sity. Both fire and flood protection seem 
to have reached a plateau. All of the obvi- 
Ous sites are protected, and the costs of 
noticeably improving the general system by 
further technological development appear 
exorbitant relative to potential benefits. 
Reforming the Western Range 
The Big Picture of public-land grazing. 
This issue of Different Drummer offers 
solutions to range management (pub- 
lic and private) that are not Babbittry. 
A feedlot of law, ecology, history, eco- 
nomics, and positive thoughts. —PW 
e 
The grazing permit system is the foundation 
for public range management. Three de- 
fects in the permit system caused these fail- 
ures: 
|. The permits originally issued by both the 
Forest Service and the BLM exceeded their 
land’s carrying capacity. 
2. Grazing permits limit the choices open 
to public land ranchers. Recreation, hunt- 
ing, and fishing are viable alternatives to 
livestock grazing, yet permits preclude such 
options. Since public land ranchers are not 
allowed to sell their grazing rights to recre- 
ation groups, their only choice is to graze 
the land or lose their permit to someone 
else who will graze it. 
3. Grazing permits give permittees strong 
incentives to overgraze public lands. They 
have no legal right to the public land, yet 
their own land value depends on the graz- 
ing preference limit in their permit. 
e 
Range condition data is susceptible to po- 
litical manipulation. For example, to gain 
support for passage of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act (FLPMA) of 
1976, the BLM claimed that range condi- 
tions had significantly declined over the 
previous ten years. In 1984, BLM reversed 
itself, claiming major improvements in both 
Fire in America 
(A Cultural History of 
Wildland and Rural Fire) 
Stephen 
J. Pyne. 1982; 654 pp. 
ISBN 0-317-03363-8 $14.95 
($16.95 postpaid). The Phoenix Society, 
11 Rust Hill Road, Levittown, PA 19056 
Gras! 
supp! ress 
with sp’ 
klers, blank 
and buck 
Oklahor 
1908, Awe 
wagon ¢) 
cally accom! 
nied such 
operation 
replenish! 
sprinkle 
ne 
