DIFFERENCES BETWEEN ‘HEAT EXHAUSTION’ AND ‘HEATSTROKE’ 
HEAT EXHAUSTION 
* sweaty, pale, cool 
AD 
skin 
- 
oe 
+ large pupils 
<j 
Dp 
* 
* no fever 
* weakness 
Fran Ge 
HEATSTROKE 
a 
ie 
* red, dry, hot skin 
1, 
— } * high fever 
* the person is very ill 
or unconscious 
Staying Healthy in Asia, Africa and Latin America 
Read this excellent travel reference 
before the bon-voyage party, then 
pack it along with the first-aid kit. 
In addition to providing the obligatory 
“stay away from scorpions” advice, 
this book is a gold mine of critical 
information. For instance, drug safety 
standards differ across borders; the 
author identifies potentially dangerous 
drugs that may be found in over-the- 
counter cold remedies in developing 
countries. Elsewhere, he wams that 
health facilities in some countries rou- 
tinely immunize many people using 
the same needle, and thus advises 
certain travelers to pack several sterile 
needles for the immunizations some- 
times required after arrival. 
Descriptions of health problems include 
risk, transmission, prevention, symp- 
toms, and treatment. Every conceivable 
Situation seems to be addressed — 
malaria, sea snakes, step-by-step 
instructions for suturing a wound. 
—Linda Morgan 
Staying 
Healthy in 
Asia, Africa, 
and Latin 
America 
Dirk Schroeder. 
1993; 185 pp. 
ISBN 1-56691-011-0 
$10.95 ($14.45 postpaid) from Moon 
Publications, Inc., PO Box 3040, Chico, 
CA 95927; phone 800/345-5473, 
fax 916/345-6751 
e 
In many developing countries, blood is 
not adequately screened for the Human 
Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) that causes 
AIDS. In case of an accident or emergency, 
international travelers may be at risk of 
contracting HIV through blood transfu- 
sions. Though the likelihood of the need 
for a blood transfusion process overseas is 
very low for most travelers, it is wise for 
those who will be living in a country for 
extended periods of time to anticipate 
this need in advance. 
Because this is a relatively new problem, 
the solutions to it are not straightforward. 
The current WHO principles and guidelines 
are as follows: 
|. Unexpected, emergency blood transfu- 
sion is rarely required; there is a tendency 
for medical personnel to perform unneces- 
sary blood transfusions in many areas. 
2. Alternatives to blood, including colloid 
and crystalloid plasma expanders, are 
strongly recommended. 
3. Emergency evacuation from areas 
with questionable supplies is highly 
recommended if necessary and possible. 
The option of donating one’s own 
blood for storage is not recommmended 
for most travelers, but should be con- 
sidered for long-term residents in areas 
where blood supply is known to be 
infected, 
e 
It is very important to continue taking 
malaria pills for 6 weeks after you return 
home (or after you leave the malarious 
area). This is necessary because most 
strains of malaria cycle between the 
bloodstream and the liver, yet the 
primary antimalarial drugs (chloroquine, 
mefloquine, Fansider, and doxycycline) 
only prevent multiplication of the malaria 
parasites while the parasites are in the 
bloodstream. Continuing to take malaria 
pills for several weeks after possible 
exposure ensures that all of the para- 
sites have cycled through the blood, 
and been killed off. 
Nomadics 
SUPPLIES 
Magellan’s 
1993 catalog. (2 0z.) 
“Lite Fantastic” Holder #SP615L $9.85 
“It was a dark and stormy night. | needed both hands for the job | 
faced. Luckily, | had my ‘Lite Fantastic’ to hold the beam from my 
Mini-Maglite exactly where | needed it, for the full hour and a 
half. It never complained a bit.” Discover this clever acces- 
sory for your AA mini-flashlight yourself. Just snap in your 
own flashlight and bend its durable Acetal “beads” into 
any shape at all to focus the light you need exactly where 
you need it. You can even loop it around your neck or over 
the head of your bed for a reading light! A big hit in our 
A rousing catalog of supplies for the international traveler. The inevitable yupware 
is nicely balanced by a selection of truly useful iterns. Much of this stuff is difficult 
to find in ordinary stores, much less collected for your easy perusal and tempta- 
tion. Waming: if you buy one of each of their worthwhile items, you'll weigh so 
much you won't be able to walk without a Crafty Native Porter (though your 
wallet will have negative buoyancy). —J. Baldwin [Suggested by Mike Sutherland] 
The PentaPure® Water Jug dispenses two gallons 
of purified water at a time! You just fill the jug with 
contaminated water from any lake, stream or tap, 
anywhere in the world. Then open the spigot at the 
base and dispense microbiologically pure drinking 
water that has flowed through the replaceable 
purification cartridge. It’s gravity activated — 
no pumping required. 
PentaPure® Water Jug #FH567 $36.85 
\ 
“The history of survivable crashes shows 
that most people who survive the impact are killed by smoke, 
not fire . 
. 
. Until airlines are compelled to provide smoke hoods 
for passengers, if you want that protection, you will have to 
bring your own...” 
—Collision Course: The Truth About Airline Safety, 
Ralph Nader and Wesley J. Smith. 
We introduced the Israeli-made Durham Escape Hood 
in our Summer ‘93 Newsletter. It was an instant hit. 
Magellan’s: Catalog free. Box 5485, Santa 
Barbara, CA 93150-5485; phone 800/962-4943, 
fax 805/568-5406. 
Travelers’ Tales: Thailand 
Any seasoned traveler knows that the 
best advice and experiences don't 
come from guidebooks. It's in those 
conversations at the cafe down the 
road, and in the fleabag hostel or 
overnight train berth, that the real 
insider information is exchanged. 
The Travelers’ Tales series aims to 
convey the excitement of voyaging 
through exotic territory with a vivacity 
that guidebooks can only hint at. Their 
first anthology assembles stories from 
Jeff Greenwald, Joe Cummings, and 
other travelers with absorbing tales 
to tell. Roaming the congested rivers 
of Bangkok and rural cycling paths, 
the authors of Thailand describe the 
fascination and fear of discovering a 
new land and ideas, Other Travelers’ 
Tales are of Mexico, India, France, 
and Japan. —Richie Unterberger 
e 
It is no mystery why riverine Bangkok is 
more interesting and pleasant than the rest 
of the city. The contrast between the river 
and the interior became most apparent 
during a combination bus-and-boat excur- 
sion to the ruins of Ayutthaya. First we 
drove north along Thailand’s ugly version of 
the New Jersey Turnpike. Billboards and 
plumes of black smoke marred the views, 
such as they were. The roadside towns 
were slapdash affairs, concrete egg boxes 
facing ditches black with waste water. 
There were prosperity and energy here 
but no beauty, and enough garbage to jus- 
tify Claude Levi-Strauss’s observation, “The 
first thing we see as we travel round the 
world is our own filth, thrown into the 
face of mankind.” 
But in Ayutthaya everything changed. The 
ancient ruins covered acres of moldering 
palaces and shattered temples, lines of de- 
capitated pillars, and bell pagodas stripped 
of ornamentation and losing their brick- 
work but still showing graceful lines. The 
grounds of the Victory temple were a 
functioning monastery where monks lived 
in airy wood houses raised on stilts. The 
porches were decorated with flowering 
plants chosen for their lucky qualities. Signs 
tacked on trees carried Buddhist teachings, 
such as “The wise tame themselves” and 
“Contentment is the greatest wealth.” 
In this, as in other Thai temples, it was 
easy to find contentment. The compound 
was shady and silent except for tinkling 
prayer bells and songbirds the monks kept 
in cages. But just outside, our bus idled 
away in a parking lot made hot and noisy 
by tour drivers running their air condition- 
ers so that they could stay cool while their 
passengers were off marveling at this oasis 
of beauty and calm. 
e 
The best massage in Bangkok has nothing 
to do with a lissome naked Thai beauty 
lathering you to distraction using every inch 
of her skin and the only soap pad nature 
has endowed her with. 
Rather, it takes place with no privacy, in 
daylight, and both of you keep all your clothes 
on. Though not as profound a religious ex- 
perience as is the famous “body-body,” this 
dry alternative occurs under the incurious 
gaze of hundreds of Buddhist monks. 
It is available daily, 7:30 to 5:00, in one of 
the largest temples in Bangkok: the Wat Po 
(Temple of Enlightenment). A Thai temple 
is characteristically a series of courtyards 
littered with gingerbread pagodas and 
chanting shaved-headed novitiates. The 
Wat Po also has tables of fake Rolex 
watches, at ten bucks each, plus the Re- 
clining Buddha, the biggest in Thailand: 
nearly half a golden football field of him, 
counting the mother-of-pearl feet, smiling 
as if he has just received the finest Thai 
massage. On a recent morning | paid 
my respects, then went on to the 
next courtyard to do likewise. 
James O'Reilly & Larry Habegger. 
Travelers’ Tales: Thailand 
1994; 405 pp. ISBN 1-56592-900-4 
$15.95 ($19.70 postpaid) from O'Reilly & 
| 
Associates, 103A Morris Street, Sebastopol, 
CA 95472; 800/998-9938, fax 707/829-0104 
| 
323 
