———————— 
<a6 
ite 
es 
*) 
1 1 
“= 
Py 
} 
oe @ 
Europe Through the Back Door 
This twelfth edition investigates 
Europe's under-visited, under-appreci- 
ated places: idyllic hamlets in the 
Swiss alps, a tiny Danish island, the 
urban blight of Belfast. 
This organization also provides the 
European traveler an array of services: 
mini-guidebooks, organized tours to 
unusual sights, inexpensive backpacks 
and moneybelts, and a public televi- 
sion series about some of Europe's 
more interesting destinations. Details 
on Back Door publications and ser- 
vices are included in their free quar- 
terly catalog/newsletter, which occa- 
sionally features interesting articles 
and letters. —Richie Unterberger 
e 
Moneybelt $8 
Absolutely required no matter where 
you're traveling! An ultra-light, sturdy, un- 
der-the-pants, one-size-fits-all (well, up to 
Europe Through the Back Door 
109 4th Avenue N., PO Box 2009, 
Edmonds, WA 98020; 206/77 |-8303, 
fax 206/771-0833. BBS 206/771-1902 
46 inches), nylon pouch, our svelte money- 
belt is just the right size to carry your valu- 
ables comfortably. It comes in neutral beige 
with a nylon zipper, an empty (sorry) plastic 
wallet insert, and full technical instructions. 
Made to ETBD’s exacting specifications, this 
moneybelt is your only guarantee against 
theft — when you wear it, feeling a street 
urchin’s hand in your pocket will become 
just another interesting cultural experience. 
Let’s Go: Europe 
Still the bible of choice for budget and 
student travelers. This series, providing 
staggeringly detailed coverage of the 
sights, hostels, and eateries, now has 
expanded information on Eastern Eu- 
rope and the former Soviet Union. 
More specialized guidebooks cover 
off-the-beaten-track highlights that this 
book misses. Let's Go publishes more 
comprehensive volumes for several 
European countries (not to mention 
their guides to North America, Mexico, 
and Israel). This massive (700+ page) 
tome is still the most thorough single 
resource to pack if you're going the 
Eurailpass route and want to carry 
as little weight as possible. —RU 
Ortner Great Resources 
The Scientific Traveler: Charles Tranford 
and Jacqueline Reynolds. 1992. John Wiley & 
Sons, Inc. A guide to scientific historical sites 
in Europe. 
Budget Europe Travel Service: 2257 
Meade Court, PO Box 8401, Ann Arbor, MI 
48107; 313/668-0529. Tips, information, and 
products for the low-budget traveler. 
e 
Dingle Peninsula, County Kerry's northern- 
most, has one of Ireland’s few surviving 
Gaelic-speaking communities. Skip over 
Tralee, at the Peninsula’s base, and head 
straight for Dingle, chock full o’ traditional 
music, craft shops, and small restaurants, 
before the growing tourist flood drowns all 
the charm. The ex-hippie owner of Rain- 
bow Hostel (tel. 510 44), 1/2-mile west of 
town on Strand Rd., his son, and a team of 
students maintain this small, friendly setup. 
(IR£5; private rooms IR£15). Good, inex- 
pensive food can be had at Eiri na Greine, 
Green St., opposite the church, behind 
Dick Mack’s pub. Though fewer than 1500 
people live in Dingle, the town has 52 pubs 
— drink up. 
No matter how tight you think your sched- 
ule is, you will inevitably be waylaid by glo- 
rious Slea Head and its inviting, though 
clandestine, strand. Dunquin youth hostel 
(HI) (tel. (066) 561 21) looks out into the 
sea. (Lockout 10:15 am-5 pm. £4.50. Sheets 
60 p.) Northeast of Dunquin lies Ballydavid 
and Brandon Creek, the exact spot from 
which St. Brenda, patron saint of Kerry, is 
said to have set sail for the “Heavenly Isles” 
(almost certainly America). In Ballydavid 
proper, follow the signs to the Tigh TB 
The Rough Guide Series 
Produced in Britain and now easily 
available through US publishers, these 
guides aren't updated as regularly as 
some others. But here you'll learn the 
hidden histories of back alleys, the 
shifty politics behind those gentrified 
neighborhoods, and the histories of the 
minority cultures so rarely highlighted 
at the tourist office. Unabashedly per- 
sonal and witty, Rough Guides resist 
hype, steering you away from the 
overcrowded Mona Lisa to the rela- 
tively undiscovered Da Vinci that lies 
just to the right, and to the neighbor- 
hoods where the locals go to drink 
their java, not the visitors. 
Rough guides are available for most 
European countries, some territory in 
other continents, and other European 
cities. Each book has an appendix 
with political history, essays, and a bib- 
liography of resources for those who 
want to learn more. —RU 
e 
The old working-class district of Prenzlauer 
Berg radiates out from the city centre ina 
network of tenement-lined cobbled streets, 
and is rapidly usurping Kreuzberg’s role as 
home of the Berlin Szene. But then, even in 
GDR days it was a uniquely vibrant and ex- 
citing corner of East Berlin, home to large 
numbers of artists and young people seek- 
ing alternative lifestyles who chose to live 
here on the edge of established East Ger- 
man society (literally as well as figuratively 
— the western boundary of Prenzlauer 
Berg was marked by the Berlin Wall). 
Given the all-embracing nature of the state, 
this was not as easy as in “alternative” 
West Berlin, as in the GDR even minor 
acts of nonconformism, or actions that 
wouldn't have been regarded as out of the 
ordinary at all in the west, like organising an 
unofficial art exhibition or concert, could 
result in a run-in with the police or attract 
the unwelcome attentions of the Stasi. It 
was no coincidence that during the 
Honecker years more cars here flew white 
ribbons from their radio aerials, signalling 
that the owners had applied to emigrate to 
the west, than anywhere else in the city. 
Since 1989 various new bars and galleries 
have opened, mainly in the streets around 
Kollwitzplatz, thriving partly because the 
area’s original inhabitants have been joined 
by an influx of people (often students) 
drawn from the west by cheap accommo- 
dation and squatting opportunities — 
squatting was already established in GDR 
days, and now some are looking to re-es- 
tablish the squat-based counterculture that 
thrived in the west a decade ago, though 
with many buildings being reclaimed by 
their original owners, the best days for 
breaking into the squat scene are probably 
already over. Most of the new bars aren’t 
dramatically different from those of west- 
ern Berlin, but they have a sense of fresh- 
ness, and are less jaded and established 
than Kreuzberg and Schéneberg haunts. 
—Berlin 
The Rough Guide Series 
Information from Penguin USA/Consumer 
Sales, 120 Woodbine Street, Bergenfield, 
NJ 07621; 800/253-6476 
Hostel (tel. 553 00; no lockout or curfew; 
kitchen; IR£5). From Dingle town to the 
northern side of the peninsula, the 1000-ft.- 
high Conor Pass, a winding cliffside road 
too narrow for buses to traverse, crosses 
the mountains and affords ripping views of 
the bays and valleys. 
Let’s Go: Europe 
Let’s Go, Inc., 1994; 886 pp. 
ISBN 0-312-09846-4 
$18.99 ($21.99 postpaid) from 
Publishers Book & Audio, PO Box 070059, 
Staten Island, NY 10307; 800/288-2131 
Undiscovered Islands 
of the Mediterranean 
The “Undiscovered” in the title is sort 
of a reverse Columbianism; of course 
the islands are already occupied — 
some for millennia — but they are un- 
known to the tourist hordes, especially 
North Americans. Some of the desti- 
nations are unfashionable enough (like 
lle du Levant, off the Céte d'Azur) to 
share an island with a military base. 
Many are just now recovering from de- 
cades of economic depression and 
abandonment. From France to Turkey, 
these islands combine the special ap- 
peal of isolation in a warm blue sea, 
with a history reaching to the roots of 
Western civilization, 
In competent guidebook fashion, we 
are pointed to walking trails and given 
fery directions. Recommendations for 
lodging and dining are also offered. 
The authors’ gift to the reader is the 
transparency of their prose style, a 
graceful informality perfectly suited to 
the islands’ ambiance. Illustrated with 
photos and spare, charming maps. 
Rapture of the deep strikes again! 
—Don Ryan 
e 
Even in late September, the midday heat 
and intense light discourage exploration; 
dawn is the perfect time to watch the is- 
land come to life. First to appear are the 
farmers who bring their produce to stores 
that have pastel-tinted walls faded by de- 
cades of sunlight. A black goat grazes 
against the remains of a mottled green wall 
that glistens from the rays of the early 
morning sun. Old women appear from be- 
hind ornately carved doors to wash their 
