The author (left) and “Max”—San Francisco School of Mortuary Science. 
Health 
DEATH & CULTURE 
Death 
If dying and the afterlife were re- 
spectively a train ride and Disneyland, 
then Seattle broadcaster Greg Palmer 
would serve as a near-perfect con- 
ductor cum Mickey Mouse. Originally 
conceived as a PBS television series, 
Death — the book — addresses 
questions both frivolous and profound. 
Did you ever consider that MGM's 
Wizard of Oz could pass for an ac- 
count of a near-death experience? Is 
it possible that slasher films are good 
for our psyche? If death ever truly took 
a holiday (probably in a cryonics 
chamber) you can bet that author 
Greg Palmer would be there to write 
about it. —Ben Trumble 
e 
As the product of a relatively normal 
American childhood, death was certainly a 
stranger to me for a long time. | knew it 
existed as | knew Africa existed. | just 
didn’t think I'd ever go there. According to 
experts who like to ask kids such ques- 
tions, children are aware of the basic exist- 
ence of death very early, even as young as 
age three. In those early years, however, 
death seems to have more to do with fear 
of abandonment than fear of personal in- 
volvement. If one morning the family gold- 
fish is doing an extremely slow backstroke 
on the surface of the tank, does that mean 
the next morning we'll find Mommy stuck 
belly up to the ceiling of her bedroom, just 
because we fed her too much the night be- 
fore? And if so, who’ s going to take me to 
get my new sneakers? 
Death 
(The Trip of a Lifetime) 
Greg Palmer. HarperSanFrancisco, 
1993; 294 pp. ISBN 0-06-250802-4 
$23 ($25.75 postpaid) from HarperCollins 
Publishers/Direct Mail, PO Box 588, 
Dunmore, PA 18512; 800/331-3761 
Perhaps the world’s only 75-horsepower coffin, at Benjamin Sowah’s Fantasy Coffins, Accra, 
Ghana. The wooden Yamaha was commissioned by a fisherman who was the first in his village 
to own the real thing 
and didn’t want anybody to forget that. 
See also: Birth (pp. 186-187), 
irituality (pp. 32-35), and 
Composting (p. !67). 
Closer to the Light 
The big question: What happens after 
death? Melvin Morse offers intriguing 
insights by applying quantitative meth- 
ods to the near-death experiences of 
a sample group of children; the reader 
can presume they have been spared 
the cultural and religious programming 
that colors the perceptions of their 
adult counterparts. Morse set up a 
control group of 12! children who, 
while critically ill, were not near death 
to see if the classic near-death experi- 
ence could be attributed to the use of 
narcotic analgesics, hypoxia, acid-base 
disturbances, or high serum carbon 
dioxide levels. His conclusion: the out- 
of-body perceptions described by in- 
dividuals whom death has touched 
are a natural psychological process 
associated with dying. 
Read this book and draw your own 
conclusions. 
Is God quite as popular an extra in 
the crowd scenes that populate the 
dying moments of, say, Southeast 
Asian children? Do 
adoptees see their bio- 
logical mothers waiting 
at the end of that great 
shining tunnel of 
light? The sophisti- 
cated reader may be left with some 
unanswered questions. But therein lies 
death's mystery. —PDiL 
OnE ORY L100 
SHALL DIE. 
e 
Mark first mentioned his near-death experi- 
ence when he was three years old. Then, 
following a Christmas pageant, he said that 
God didn’t look like the man in the play 
they had just seen. When his father asked 
him what he meant, Mark told him what 
had happened during that frantic night 
two years earlier: 
“| saw nurses and doctors standing over 
me, trying to wake me up. | 
flew out of 
the room and [went to the waiting room 
where |] saw Grandpa and Grandma crying 
and holding each other. | think they thought 
| 
| was going to die.” 
He then reported seeing a long, dark tunnel 
and crawling up it... At the end of that 
tunnel, he found a “bright place” and “ran 
through the fields with God.” He was very 
animated when he described this run with 
God. He said that “one can double-jump 
in heaven”... Mark remembered this ex- 
perience vividly until the age of five, when 
doctors removed the trachea tube they had | 
inserted to remedy a problem known as 
tracheomalacia, or floppy windpipe. Then 
the memory of the experience began 
to fade. 
Closer to the Light 
(Learning From the Near-Death 
Experiences of Children) 
Melvin Morse. lvy Books, 
1990; 236 pp. ISBN 0-804 1-0832-3 
$5.99 ($7.99 postpaid) from Random 
House/Order Dept., 400 Hahn Road, 
Westminster, MD 21157; 800/733-3000 
Death (The Comic) 
The slickest wordspinner in comics, 
Neil Gaiman (writer of Sandman), 
offers us up a new twist, a revisionist 
Grim Reaper — a cross between 
Nico and a young Louise Brooks — 
a beauty called Death. Death doesn't 
waste much time worrying about her 
job, and she doesn’t make deals. If. 
you want a hot look at what's fresh 
in alternative fiction, go with Death. 
She'll be ready when you are. —BT 
Death (The Comic) 
Neil Gaiman. 
$23.40/year (12 issues). DC Comics, 
PO Box 0528, Baldwin, NY 11510 
Who Dies? Stephen Levine. A compassionate 
and powerful primer on dying and living with 
awareness. One of the books most recom- 
mended by readers in the history of Whole 
Earth. 1989, Anchor Press, Doubleday & Co. 
How We Die: Sherwin B. Nuland. A longtime 
physician looks death in the face, sparing none of 
the clinical details. 1994, Alfred A. Knopf. 
On Death & Dying: Elisabeth Kiibler-Ross. 
Still the classic for understanding dying from 
the perspective of the dying person. 1969, 
1993, Macmillan. 
The Tibetan Book of Living and Dying: 
Sogyal Rinpoche. A practical, liberating g uide 
to awareness in both states. 1992, Harper 
San Francisco. 
373 
