0. 
Microcosmos 
A unique book. Nowhere else can 
one find the microbial history of the 
planets or a deeper sense of our 
dependence on the invisible creatures 
that trap light from the sun, manufac- 
ture Earthfood, and regenerate the 
oxygen for the metabolism of life. 
Humans appear as a somewhat silly 
cell conglomerate of latecomers. The 
importance of symbiosis, cohabitation, 
cooperative behavior, and mutualism 
balances out the old views in which 
competition and predators seemed to 
govern the patterns of evolution. The 
prose delights as the facts enlighten. 
—PW 
e 
The oxygen holocaust was a worldwide 
pollution crisis that occurred about 2,000 
million years ago. Before this time there 
was almost no oxygen in the earth’s atmo- 
sphere. The earth’s original biosphere was 
as different from ours as that of an alien 
planet. But purple and green photosynthetic 
microbes, frantic for hydrogen, discovered 
the ultimate resource, water, and its use 
led to the ultimate toxic waste, oxygen. 
Our precious oxygen was originally a gas- 
eous poison dumped into the atmosphere. 
The appearance of oxygen-using photo- 
synthesis and the resulting oxygen-rich 
environment tested the ingenuity of mi- 
crobes, especially those producing oxygen 
and those nonmobile microorganisms un- 
able to escape the newly abundant and 
reactive gas by means of motion. The mi- 
Two billion years ago: Early Proterozoic 
Aeon: Hazardous oxygen accumulates 
in atmosphere as 
result of bacterial 
photosynthesis. 
Microcosmos 
(Four Billion Years of Microbial Evolution) 
Lynn Margulis & Dorion Sagan. | 986; 
301 pp. ISBN 0-671-74798-3 
$10 ($13 postpaid) from Simon & Schuster/ 
Order Dept., 200 Old Tappan Road, Old 
Tappan, NJ 07675; 800/223-2336 
crobes that stayed around responded by in- 
venting various intercellular devices and 
scavengers to detoxify — and eventually 
exploit — the dangerous pollutant. 
e 
Mitochondria were once bacteria that be- 
came symbiotically holed up inside larger 
bacterial cells. In damp Proterozoic soil 
or in a microbial mat with grass-green and 
blue-green bacteria bubbling maddening 
amounts of polluting oxygen from their 
every surface, forcing all around them to 
evade it or evolve, a type of oxygen-breath- 
ing bacterium arose. It was probably a 
fierce predator, perhaps resembling mod- 
ern predatory bacteria such as Bdellovibrio 
and Daptobacter. 
Time-Life Planet Earth Series 
There's no book out there on the natural history of the biosphere: the oxygen 
cycle, the carbon cycle, the sheltering layers of atmosphere, the blips in Gaian 
physiology from volcanoes and continental plate movements or the buffering ac- 
tion of glaciers. Pieces can be found in various great books like Microcosmos and 
Life as a Geological Force. The most dramatic and jump-start summaries are the 
beautifully illustrated 
Time-Life Series, especially 
The Atmosphere. —PW 
Planet Earth Series 
18 volumes; 
$13.99 ($17.64 postpaid) each 
from Time-Life Inc./Customer 
Service, 1450 E. Parham Road, 
Richmond, VA 23280; 
800/621-7026 
Time-Life is phasing out the 
series. Two book-search com- 
panies that carry many of their 
titles are: Book Search Interna- 
tional (615/298-3804) and the 
Strand Bookstore, 
212/473-1452. 
Life as a Geological Force 
Even many rocks were once alive. Even the 
hardest rocks can succumb to life's persis- 
tence. Even the shifting of continents 
may be influenced by life's microcosmos. 
If you think of rock as lifeless and 
immortal, read this. —PW 
Life as a Geological Force 
(Dynamics of the Earth) 
Peter Westbroek. 1991; 240 pp. 
ISBN 0-393-02932-8 
$9.95 postpaid from W. W. Norton & 
Co./Order Dept., 800 Keystone Industrial 
Park, Scranton, PA 18512; 800/233-4830 
Gaia and Biosphere 
“This is the assembly of life that took [3.9] billion years to evolve. It has eaten 
storms — folded them into genes — and created the world that has created 
us. It holds the world steady.” —E. O. Wilson, The Diversity of Life 
OME DISCOVERIES of science have far-reaching tech- 
nological consequences — 
the quantum theory 
produced the A-bomb. The Gaia theory has few technologi- 
cal byproducts, but enormous 
impacts on human 
behavior, thoughts, spirit, compassion, and mythology. 
Twentieth-century science slowly assembled observa- 
tions into a still-emerging Gaian vision: life as a geological 
force; plate tectonics; the varied, nonsupportive atmo- 
spheres of other planets; stromatalites; images of the little blue 
planet from satellite photos; aerobic bacteria that tooka pollutant 
(oxygen) and created a livable planet for other species; DDT as 
it looped through the biosphere. An underground of scientists 
that had long been ignored suddenly could not be ignored: 
Vernadsky in the Soviet Union, Lynn Margulis in the United States, 
James Lovelock in England. 
The Gaia theory ended the search for God in outer space. The home planet 
is now glorious and full of divinity. The Earth holds the same feelings that have 
characterized outer-space religions: paying homage to awesome patterns. 
Worshiping is once again “worth-shaping.” Gaian stories provide new 
metaphor that can move the collective mind of humans. If the twenty-first 
century is to display more compassion than the bleak, destructive twentieth, 
it will, in part, come from the scientific unifying picture provided by Gaian 
thought. —Peter Warshall 
The Ages of Gaia 
James Lovelock has upgraded his no- 
tion of Earth as living organism from 
hypothesis (testable speculation) to 
theory (persuasive explanation). One 
might have expected him to modify 
its radical nature at this stage. He did 
not. Instead, in this book he extends 
its ramifications, arguing convincingly 
that Earth's personality — its oceans’ 
character, the ingenious delivery of its 
water as rain over dry land, its trans- 
parent, blue-air skin, and perhaps the 
very mold of the land itself — are all 
caused by life. In Lovelock's biography 
of Gaia, life is not a fragile weakling, 
but a hardy, indomitable force that 
awakens Gaia herself. This is science 
writing at its best, and the boldest 
earth-science book in decades. 
—Kevin Kelly 
e 
At the risk of having my membership 
card of the Friends of the Earth withdrawn, 
| say that only by pollution do we survive. 
We animals pollute the air with carbon 
dioxide, and the vegetation pollutes it with 
oxygen. The pollution of one is the meat 
of the other. 
e 
The name of the living planet, Gaia, is not a 
synonym for the biosphere. The biosphere 
is defined as that part of the Earth where 
living things normally exist. Still less is Gaia 
the same as the biota, which is simply the 
collection of all individual living organisms. 
The biota and the biosphere taken together 
form part but not all of Gaia. Just as the 
Ortner Great Resources 
For biospheric microbial intense interest: 
Early Life. Lynn Margulis. 1982, Jones & Bartlett Publishers. 
Symbiosis in Cell Evolution. Lynn Margulis. 1992, W. H. Freeman & Co. 
Biospheric views were first spoken by Soviet scientists. 
This is the elegant classic: Traces of Bygone Biospheres. 
Audrey Lapo. 1988, Biosphere Press. 
Photomicrograph of cyanobacteria. 
These 
are the organisms that first used the energy 
of sunlight to produce organic materials and 
oxygen. They have been, both in the free 
state and as endosymbionts, the primary 
producers from the beginning of the Archean 
until now. 
shell is part of a snail, so the rocks, the air, 
and the oceans are part of Gaia. Gaia, as 
we shall see, has continuity with the past 
back to the origins of life, and extends into 
the future as long as life persists. Gaia, as a 
total planetary being, has properties that 
are not necessarily discernible by just 
knowing individual species or populations 
of organisms living together. 
The Ages of Gaia 
(A Biography of Our Living Earth) 
James Lovelock. Bantam Books, | 988; 
252 pp. ISBN 0-553-34816-7 
$10.95 ($13.45 postpaid) from Bantam, 
Doubleday, Dell/Fulfillment Dept., 2451 S. 
Wolf Road, Des Plaines, IL 60018; 
800/223-6834 
