oOo 
Schools That Work 
George H. Wood describes actual el- 
ementary and high-school classrooms 
that are places of joy, purpose, caring 
and collaboration. They differ from 
conventional classrooms in several im- 
portant ways: young people are given 
greater responsibility for planning the 
curriculum and setting class rules; 
leaming is pursued through thematic 
projects and out in the world, rather 
than in textbooks and workbooks; 
there is less fragmentation by rigid 
scheduling and the “tyranny of the 
clock.” 
Wood is primarily concerned with edu- 
cating for a truly democratic society. 
He offers these examples of innova- 
tive classrooms to support his critique 
of the competitive, test-driven, nar- 
rowly economic purpose that public 
education serves in the US today. 
—Ron Miller 
e 
What does democratic life require of us? 
What of those things can we effect in 
schools? Fundamentally, democracy re- 
quires citizens who participate broadly in 
informed public decision-making with an 
eye toward the common good. Citizens 
must thus be literate, able not only to mas- 
ter the rudiments of reading, writing, and 
computing, but able to use these tools as 
ways of understanding the world and mak- 
ing their voices heard in it. 
e 
Marcia [Burchby]: “We have to respect the 
child's work as his or her work. It may not 
be perfect, and it may not even be like any- 
thing we have seen before. But it is that 
child’s and we should respect it as that.” 
This respect for the child as a learner, as a 
collaborator, shows up again on the sheet 
of poster board that displays the class rules. 
At first glance, a list that begins with “No 
Smoking” and proceeds to “No Throwing 
Books at the Lights” seems a bit unusual for 
a first-grade room. “Well, they made all the 
rules themselves as a group,” I’m informed. 
“It’s their space as much as mine. Besides, 
we all agree that the rules boil down to 
taking care of each other and our stuff.” 
e 
There is a temptation among school re- 
formers to fantasize about the future of 
Schools That Work 
(America’s Most Innovative 
Public Education Programs) 
George H. Wood. Plume Books, 1992; 
290 pp. ISBN 0-452-26959-8 
$11 ($13 postpaid). Penguin USA/ 
Consumer Sales, 120 Woodbine Street, 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621; 800/253-6476 
schooling. Painting rosy pictures of the 
schools of the future, they seldom talk 
about the hard work of getting from here 
to there. It’s as if they only need to wish it 
for it to come true. But people involved in 
the day-to-day work of educating and rais- 
ing children know that such fantasies just 
aren't possible. They know that schools are 
very much driven by tradition, that they of- 
ten respond slowly if at all to calls for 
change, and that grandiose, one-size-fits-all 
reforms seldom have an impact on the 
daily lives of kids in schools. Joette Weber 
put it this way: “You know, | hear about all 
the things the state legislature is supposedly 
doing to make schools better. But when it 
gets right down to it, when | close my 
door, it’s just me and my little guys. Alll that 
stuff doesn’t have much effect. It doesn’t 
help me at all. | haven’t noticed one bit of 
positive difference from all the noise and 
money spent by those guys.” This refrain 
sounds strangely familiar from state to 
state. 
What is possible in restructuring schools is 
change on a more local scale. The basic 
building block of the school system in the 
United States is the local school. If genuine, 
democratic school reform is to occur, it 
must begin at this most fundamental level, 
proceeding school by school, district by 
district. 
Of course, this is the most frustrating way 
to think about school reform. We all long 
for the grand stroke that will turn schools 
around and suddenly solve all our prob- 
lems. But as quickly as that stroke could be 
carried out, it could be undone. Lasting 
change will take a deep commitment to the 
daily work of making schools the compo- 
nent of democratic life that they were in- 
tended to be. 
How to Get Your Child a Private School 
Education in a Public School 
This book has become my Bible in 
dealing with schools and my children’s 
attitudes towards them. 
The authors (who are educators and 
parents) firmly believe that it is un- 
necessary to spend megabucks on 
private schooling. Their advice on 
checking out the teacher, deciding if a 
school is right for your child, and cop- 
ing with the minutiae — moming 
madness, to painless papers, recess 
success — is pragmatic and thought- 
provoking. Lots of good ideas and 
common sense here! —Nancy Rhine 
e 
Choosing a school based on reputation is 
better than not choosing at all. Some par- 
ents don’t choose because they think they 
don’t have a choice. Private school is not 
How to ze Your Chil : 
“Private School 
Education 
ina 
Public Schoo! % 
How to Get Your Child a 
Private School Education 
in a Public School 
Martin Nemko. 1989; 191 pp. 
ISBN 0-89815-277-1 
$8.95 ($12.45 post- 
paid). Ten Speed Press, PO Box 7123, 
Berkeley, CA 94707; 800/841-2665 
an option for them, and they believe their 
child can only attend the local public 
school. This is often untrue. For years, par- 
ents-in-the-know have been getting their 
children into public schools other than 
their local one. 
Learning 
MAKING SCHOOLS WORK 
Why Do These Kids Love School? 
“You mean you haven't seen this be- 
fore?” said my wife when | brought this 
videocassette home to get her opinion. 
Like many other citizens, Judy cares 
enough about our daughter's public 
school to work as a volunteer class- 
room helper and community fund- 
raiser. She informed me that the video 
is a respected classic among people 
who believe schools can become excit- 
ing learning environments. If you are a 
teacher, a parent, a school administra- 
tor of the kind who builds arks when 
everyone else is predicting rain, this 
documentary is irrefutable and inspir- 
ing evidence that committed commu- 
nities can work wonders. 
—HLR 
Why Do 
These Kids 
Love School?: 
Dorothy 
Fadiman, 1990; 
60m. VHS video. 
$95 ($100 post- 
paid). Pyramid 
Film & Video, 
PO Box 1048, 
Santa Monica, 
CA 90406; 
800/421-2304. 
Building Support Networks for Schools 
Pat Wagner has been facilitating con- 
nections between people for over a 
decade, through the Denver-based Of- 
fice for Open Networks. Her network- 
ing wisdom embraces everything from 
characteristics of successful network 
builders to specific network-building 
tools. Although the book is not about 
electronic networking, its strategies 
and ideas would help any group con- 
struct an interactive idea/information/ 
project exchange in their community. 
Wagner even includes the design for a 
network workshop you can run your- 
self (complete with pages to be cop- 
| ied for handouts). 
This is a valuable tool for any teacher, 
administrator, or community member 
interested in developing resource net- 
works, —Lisa Kimball 
e 
Network versus Archive 
Many kinds of human behavior and organi- 
zations satisfy some of the criteria of suc- 
cessful network building. However, the 
differences are crucial and warrant atten- 
tion. On the spectrum of information man- 
agement, network building is at one end 
and archive building is at the other. 
A network is based on the relationships 
among people in the web, while an archive 
relies on documents. In this context, docu- 
ments include any recorded information, 
from books and papers to computer data- 
bases and artwork. The more time spent 
collecting, cataloging, and retrieving infor- 
mation, the less time can be spent focusing 
on people. 
Building Support Networks 
for Schools 
Pat Wagner. 1991; 206 pp. 
ISBN 0-87436-61 
5-1 
$35 postpaid from ABC-CLIO, Inc., 
PO Box 1911, Santa Barbara, CA 
93116-1911; 800/422-2546 
Anotuer Great Resource 
The Unschooled Mind (How Children Think 
and How Schools Should Teach): 
Howard Gardner. 1993, Basic Books. Gardner 
knows his cognitive science. And he knows how 
to explain why traditional curriculums fail to 
match the cognitive capabilities of students. 
A teacher’s defensiveness is equally under- 
standable. How would you feel if you were a 
teacher? Just babysitting thirty kids for six 
hours a day, five days a week would be a 
Herculean task. Imagine also trying to figure 
out, address all their learning, emotional, and 
social needs too! Would you do a teacher's 
job, even if you had the summer off? 
355 
