a 
Political Tools 
RIGHTS 301 
Girls Lean Back Everywhere: 
The Law of Obscenity and the Assault on Genius 
The willingness of governing bodies to 
shut people up is so common as to 
seem a generic characteristic of gov- 
ernment. But the US has seen an in- 
creasing understanding by the govern- 
ment of 
the role of 
free speech in our 
society, and an increasing tolerance of 
frank and graphic presentations of 
sexual material. How did we get here? 
Girls Lean Back attempts to compile 
in a single volume the recent history of 
censorship in America. Starting with 
the Comstock laws (which classified 
information about contraception as 
obscene"), Edward de Grazia traces 
the battles between writers and artists 
on the one side and would-be censors 
on the other over the last century. De 
Grazia, a professor of law, includes 
countless interviews and statements 
by the principals involved. There are 
notable discussions of the treatment 
of Joyce's Ulysses, Nabokov’s Lolita, 
Miller's Tropic of Cancer, and Lenny 
Bruce's famous nightclub act, and 
chapters dealing with the Holly 
Hughes/NEA contretemps and 
with the 2 Live Crew prosecutions. 
The title comes from a statement 
by a publisher of Ulysses — she was 
defending Joyce's decision to describe 
d woman on a swing who allows 
the character Leo Bloom to look 
up her dress. —Mike Godwin 
e 
Robin West, a professor of law at the Uni- 
versity of Maryland, has distinguished be- 
tween “good” and “bad” pornography for 
women, based upon the premise that, 
whatever else it might be, “pornography is 
50 Ways to Fight Censorship 
The author is a writer on rock music, 
late of Rolling Stone, and his outrage 
over music censorship comes through 
on every page. If this useful little book 
has a flaw, it could be that its anger 
blinds it to its opponents’ point of 
view. You'll find very little sympathy 
for the family-values crowd here, and 
it even takes a poke at (then Senator) 
Al Gore. But mostly, it swings back 
and forth between describing com- 
mon-sense political action and 
relating anecdotes of 
stupid 
censorship in action. 
In terms of concrete, hold-the-line 
vigilance against book-burners, the 
recommended tactics seem compre- 
hensive. | especially liked the author's 
advice for acquainting children with 
the issue: there's a list of six things 
kids (presumably starting with any- 
body old enough to read) can do, in- 
cluding recruiting their parents, getting 
involved with the American Library 
Association's Banned Book Week, 
and contacting the Student Press Law 
Center for help in fighting censorship 
by school officials. 
On the other hand, | was a little 
disappointed to find no discussion 
of — philosophical? — tactics. The 
author apparently assumes that 
© 
1990 
BY 
M. 
WUERKER. 
you've thought through the issues; 
he doesn’t mention the individual fight 
against repression, the personal strug- 
gle against self-censorship, and the 
potential paradox in which the pre- 
vention of censorship becomes censor- 
ship itself, 50 Ways is an angry book, 
and anger isn’t a particularly philo- 
sophical emotion. —Joseph McConnell 
e 
Speaking out is the primary duty of every 
freedom fighter — or good citizen, if you 
want to put it that way. It’s the job that we 
all have to do, separately and collectively, 
where we see injustice and where injustice 
has been going on for so long it’s become 
invisible. Silence is a form of censorship, 
and when important issues are at stake, 
silence is a form of death. 
e 
In 1982, in Calhoun County, Alabama, it 
started with Doris Day’s autobiography. A 
minister's daughter brought the book home 
to write a report about it; the minister ob- 
jected to some of its language. And by the 
time he and a self-appointed committee of 
50 other parents and ministers were done, 
they'd decided that the county library 
ought to ban not just Day's book, but 
Anthony Burgess’ A Clockwork Orange 
and everything by John Steinbeck. 
e 
On the Origin of Species — Charles R. 
Darwin. Banned from Trinity College in 
Cambridge, England (1859). Banned in 
Yugoslavia (1935), and in Greece (1937). 
an aid to sexual pleasure.” West considers 
that pornography cannot be said to be vic- 
timless in the light of testimony by women 
who said they suffered serious injury either 
in the making of violent pornography or 
from violent sexual acts by men who 
claimed to have been incited by viewing 
pornography; for West this is bad pornog- 
raphy. But, she points out, the anti-porn 
feminists and the Meese commission inves- 
tigators both refused to describe the good 
pornography that has brought positive 
sexual experiences to women, and is also 
good for feminists because it impeaches 
conservative patriarchal morality with its 
profound denial that virtue and sexuality 
are compatible in women. 
e 
LOIS SHEINFELD [Professor, New York 
University School of 
Journalism]: On the 
evening of 
July 10 [1984], a 23-year-old 
Minneapolis woman doused herself with 
50 Ways to Fight Censorship 
Dave Marsh. 1991; 128 pp. 
ISBN 1-56025-01 1-9 
$5.95 ($8.95 postpaid) from Thunder’s 
Mouth Press, 632 Broadway, 7th Floor, 
New York, NY 10012; 212/780-0380 
The teaching of evolution was prohibited in 
Tennessee from 1925-67. 
One Hundred Years of Solitude — Gabriel 
Garcia Marquez. Purged from the book list 
used at the Wasco, CA Union High School 
(1986) because the book, by the winner of 
the 1982 Nobel Prize for Literature, was 
“garbage being passed off as literature.” 
Our Bodies, Ourselves — Boston Women’s 
Health Book Collective. Challenged at 
the William Chrisman High School in Inde- 
pendence, MO (1984) because the book 
is “filthy.” The controversial feminist health 
manual was on a bookshelf in a classroom 
and was the personal property of the 
teacher. 
The Rise and Fall of California’s 
Radical Prison Movement: 
Eric Cummins. 1993, Stanford 
University Press. 
Pelican Bay Information Project: 
2489 Mission Street, #28, San Francisco, 
CA 94110. 
Broken Ground: John Keeble. 1987, 
HarperPerennial. Out of Print. 
Interfaith Prisoners of Conscience: 
2120 Lincoln Street, Evanston, IL 60201. 
New Society Publishers: 4527 Spring- 
field Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19143; 
800/333-9093. 
Girls Lean Back Everywhere: 
The Law of Obscenity and the 
Assault on Genius 
Edward De Grazia. Vintage Books, 1992; 
814 pp. ISBN 0-679-74341-3 
$17 ($19 postpaid) from Random House/ 
Order Dept., 400 Hahn Road, Westminster, 
MD 21157; 800/733-3000 
gasoline and set herself aflame to protest 
pornography. She was taken to the hospital 
in critical condition. Three days later, the 
Minneapolis City Council passed a package 
of antipornography legislation. The legisla- 
tion included a censorship ordinance con- 
demning pornography on the theory that it 
violated the civil rights of women. That or- 
dinance was the product of an intensive 
campaign mounted by two feminists, 
Catharine MacKinnon 
. .. and Andrea 
Dworkin. ... Last year, MacKinnon and 
Dworkin drafted a similar ordinance and 
persuaded the City Council to adopt it... 
following highly emotional legislative hear- 
ings. 
.. 
. Mayor Donald M. Fraser vetoed 
the ordinance. 
NAT HENTOFF: Perhaps the most bizarre 
turn in the tumultous history of “the new 
censorship” was a letter sent to the Presi- 
dent of the Minneapolis City Council 
. 
. 
. 
— “in dissent and dismay” at Fraser's veto 
— by the justly celebrated First Amend- 
ment gladiator Professor Laurence Tribe 
of Harvard Law School. In the letter, Tribe 
chastised the mayor for “hiding behind the 
First Amendment” by not letting the courts 
decide, instead of unilaterally killing the 
bill by veto. The Dworkin-MacKinnon leg- 
islation, said Tribe, “is not obviously un- 
constitutional” and its supposed invalidity 
“follows surely from no clear precedent.” 
Tribe added that while he is uncertain 
as to how a judicial test will come out, 
he feels the MacKinnon-Dworkin creation 
“may eventually be found to be the first 
sensible approach to an area which has 
vexed some of the best legal minds for 
decades.” If Laurence Tribe’s mind can 
turn to mush on this matter, can anyone 
be sure of what the Supreme Court will say? 
