“Pests of the Garden and Small Farm 
Household 
ANSE 
PEST MANAGEMENT 
To capture a spider, 
invert a glass or jar over 
it, slip an index card 
underneath, carry 
the spider outside 
and release it. 
Common-Sense Pest Control 
Ants or cockroaches or weevils over- 
running your kitchen? To control them 
without toxic chemicals, you will prob- 
ably have to pay more attention to 
the problem than if you were willing to 
spray a kill'er-all pesticide. To really 
know what you're doing, you need 
specific information about the life cycle 
of the pest you're dealing with. De- 
tailed knowledge is the key to inte- 
grated pest management (IPM, as the 
breakthrough technique is dubbed). 
Common-Sense Pest Control will fill 
the bill for years to come. It is a first- 
rate, encyclopedic reference presented 
in nontechnical language. Written by 
three pioneers of IPM, the volume is 
packed with truly safe techniques for 
managing all kinds of plant and ani- 
mal pests. The authors supply the nec- 
essary level of 
fine detail for avid read- 
ers and scientists, while giving quick 
answers for people in a huny. 
The Olkowskis and Sheila Daar have 
been battling for decades to improve 
pest management methods and re- 
duce worldwide use of poisonous 
chemicals. 
To further the same goals, these three 
founded the Bio-Integral Resource 
Center (BIRC; see Other Great Re- 
sources). —Karen Van Epen 
e 
Ant Barriers. As discussed earlier, in some 
areas of the country certain ant species 
protect aphids from their natural enemies 
Common-Sense Pest Control 
(Least-toxic solutions for your 
home, garden, pets, and community) 
William Olkowski, Sheila Daar, 
& Helga Olkowski. 1991; 715 pp. 
ISBN 0-94239 
| 
-63-2 
$39.95 ($43.95 postpaid) from 
The Taunton Press, Box 5506, 
Newtown, CT 06470-5506; 800/283-7252 
to ensure that the aphids continue to ex- 
crete the honeydew the ants feed upon. If 
you see ants on aphid-infested plants, as- 
sume they are playing this protective role. 
The application of a band of sticky material 
(such as Stickem™ or Tanglefoot™, avail- 
able at nurseries) to stalks of roses and 
other woody plants keeps the ants away. 
Be certain the foliage of the banded plant 
is not touching anything the ants can use 
as a bridge to the plant foliage. 
e 
Bedbugs at any stage of development are 
capable of withstanding starvation for 80 to 
140 days; however, older stages are most 
starvation-resistant. With adequate food 
and normal development, the adult stage 
lives about 10 months. In unheated build- 
ings without food, adults can live a year or 
longer. (It is an interesting characteristic of 
many blood-feeding organisms that they can 
actually live longer without food.) 
Pests of Landscape Trees 
and Shrubs 
This first comprehensive guide to using 
IPM for woody landscape plants is di- 
rected at landscape professionals and 
homeowners. It tells how to identify, 
monitor, and manage the whole pest 
spectrum: insects, pathogens, nema- 
todes, and weeds. The excellent color 
photos (over 300) are sharp enough 
to show minute details. In IPM, it really 
is important to be able to distinguish 
between two species of whitefly. 
—Jill Hannum 
This landmark book is cause for cel- 
ebration, as it has potential to sub- 
stantially reduce the toxic chemicals 
on our home turf, and in parks and 
commons across 
the country. 
—KVE 
LANDSCAPE 
TREES 
i 
SHRUBS 
| For most people, the major exposure 
| to pesticides occurs in their own gar- 
dens. “Each year in California, home 
gardeners use about one pound of 
pesticide for every man, woman and 
child in the state,” says author Mary 
Louise Flint. This richly illustrated book 
is filled with all the details about what 
you can do instead — for insects, 
plant diseases, nematodes and weeds. 
| It's worth buying just to have good pic- 
| tures of so many little critters finally 
| gathered all in one place. It is keyed to 
California, but most of the species 
discussed occur throughout North 
America; the techniques (like soil solar- 
ization — cooking weed seeds and 
fungi to death in the soil under plastic 
| sheets) will work anywhere. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Dr. Flint heads the IPM Manual 
Group, whose work has been a prime 
factor in the shift of farmers toward 
more sustainable agriculture. ANR car- 
ries their excellent manuals for com- 
mercial-scale management of alfalfa 
hay, apples & pears, almonds, citrus, 
cole crops & lettuce, cotton, potatoes, 
nce, tomato, small grains, and walnuts. 
—KVE 
e 
Most biological control occurs naturally 
without assistance from the grower or gar- 
dener. Often its importance is not appreci- 
ated until a broad spectrum pesticide, 
which kills certain natural enemies as well a 
targeted pests, is applied and a new pest — 
suddenly released from biological control 
— becomes a serious problem. This type of 
phenomenon, known as secondary pest 
outbreak, occasionally occurs in gardens. 
One example might be the sudden out- 
e 
It may be beneficial to introduce mycor- 
rhizae when planting new species that have 
not previously grown at that site. One way 
to do this is to collect soil or litter — if it is 
known to be free of pathogens — from 
around established older plants of that spe- 
cies and rake it into the soil around the 
young plants to be innoculated. 
e 
Commercial suppliers of Trichogramma nor- 
mally ship the parasite in the form of para- 
sitized caterpillar eggs glued to a piece of 
cardboard. The wasps, which complete 
their immature stage within the caterpillar 
eggs, should emerge as adults soon after 
the shipment arrives. Trichogramma are 
more likely to be effective if they are allowed 
to emerge in containers lightly streaked with 
honey diluted with water and permitted to 
feed for 24 hours before release. 
Pests of Landscape Trees and 
Shrubs 
(An Integrated Pest Management Guide) 
Steve Dreistadt & M. L. Flint, Editors. 
1994; 336 pp. ISBN 1-879-906-18-X 
$32 postpaid from ANR Publications, 
University of California, 6701 San Pablo 
Avenue, Oakland, CA 94608-1239; 510/ 
642-2431 
Environmentally Friendly Gardening 
There's been a 
revolution in 
backyard vegetable 
gardening, and this book 
can help us profit from it. Pam 
Peirce interprets the new principles 
and techniques of non-chemical pest 
control for home gardeners. She uses 
good, crop-specific color photos to 
show us the guilty culprits, the good 
guys, and the problems caused by 
poor growing conditions. —KVE 
Environmentally 
Friendly Gardening 
(Controlling Vegetable Pests) 
Cindy Putnam, Editor. Ortho Information 
Services, 1991; 160 pp. ISBN 0-89721-230-4 
$12.95 ($14.95 postpaid) from Brent Lovell 
Associates, 381 | Pinot Court, Pleasanton, 
CA 94566; 800/732-0121 
Bio-Integral Resource Center (BIRC): PO 
Box 7414, Berkeley, CA 94707; 510/524-1758. 
A nonprofit educational organization, BIRC pro- 
vides publications and services for environmen- 
tally sound pest control. The group also pub- 
lishes a magazine for the layperson, Common 
Sense Pest Control Quarterly, and an international 
journal for pest control professionals. 
Suppliers of Beneficial Organisms in North 
America: Charles D. Hunter. Free from Califor- 
nia Environmental Protection Agency/Dept. of 
Pesticide Regulation, 1020 N Street, Room 161, 
Sacramento, CA 95814; 916/324-4100. A great di- 
rectory listing 95 suppliers of over 125 organisms. 
break of aphid, scale, mite, or whitefly 
populations throughout a garden soon after 
a large tree has been sprayed with a broad 
spectrum insecticide such as carbaryl; not 
only are the pest insects in the tree de- 
stroyed, but also the insect parasites and 
other natural enemies in, beneath, and adja- 
cent to the tree canopy. 
e 
Check your vegetable plants or orchard 
trees at least once a week . . 
. for signs of 
pests and pest damage. In orchards, pick a 
few leaves on each side of the tree to 
check for pests, pest damage, or disorders, 
check the trunk for injury, oozing sap or 
migrating insects. In vegetable crops, walk 
through the furrow turning over leaves on 
every few plants to check for signs of in- 
sects or disease. 
‘AGroser’s cat ie 
Beir as Rescue 
Pests of the Garden 
and Small Farm 
(A Grower's Guide to Using Less Pesticide) 
Mary Louise Flint. 1990; 276 pp. 
ISBN 0-93 1876-89-3 
$30 postpaid from ANR Publications, Uni- 
versity of California, 6701 San Pablo Av- 
enue, Oakland, CA 94608-1239; 
510/642-2431 
Development of a stink bug species, the harlequin bug, showing gradual metamorphosis with wing development. 
