lll 
Sustainability 
DESIGNED FOR DISMANTLING 115 
““Garbage Represents a Design Failure in the Disposal System” 
Urban Ore, Inc., is a twelve-year-old, vigorously successful recycling/ 
reuse operation in Berkeley, CA. It’s an MRF — Materials Recovery 
Facility, or “merf’. Urban Ore’s twenty-person crew generates annual 
revenues of about $1.2 million, while reducing landfill by several thou- 
sand tons. MRFs are spreading rapidly across the country; a similar 
operation (that needs your support) may be nearby you. MRFs are under 
fire from garbage contractors (a notoriously politicized bunch) whose 
need to deter competition takes precedence over the good of environ- 
ment and society. Many garbage haulers are trying to get laws passed to 
legally call all discards garbage, thus destroying MRF enterprises such as 
Urban Ore. You need a cause? This fight’s just heatin’ up. 
Most of this report is derived from Total Recycling: Realistic Ways to 
Approach the Ideal, a book by Urban Ore founders Daniel Knapp, Ph.D., 
and Mary Lou Van Deventer, coming soon from the University of 
California Press. Urban Ore Information Services Manager David Stern 
furnished news of the latest developments. Those people work hard. 
—J. Baldwin 
How TO DESIGN TOTAL RECYCLING SYSTEMS 
OTAL RECYCLING IS A BIG VISION — it means of anything we can no longer use. It 
means wasting and attitudes that permit waste are unacceptable. It has been considered 
presumptuous even to think of such a thing — until now. Now it is necessary. 
But in a world of sound bites and attention spans shortened by television, big visions must be 
reduced to microbits to be seen at all. Which is okay, so long as the microbits expand on 
command. The following principles are presented as microbits that could be expanded into 
a huge industry called total recycling: 
& Waste isn’t waste until it’s wasted. Conventional disposal systems waste resources 
by mixing unlike things together, often in the name of efficiency. The first step in 
avoiding waste is avoiding mixing. 
€&) Recyclers handle discards, not wastes. Discards can be recycled or wasted. 
=e We will always have discards, but we can deny people the option of wasting them. 
& Recycling upgrades discards to resources instead of downgrading them to 
garbage. Garbage represents a design failure in the disposal system. Recyclers 
sometimes waste things, but their ultimate goal is to waste nothing. 
e's) Recycling manages the supply of discards, not the “solid waste 
~™" stream.” The term “waste management” should be reserved for the garbage 
disposal industry. 
aD 
) Recycling is a form of disposal. Disposal by recycling is not 
~~ destruction; it is orderly placement. Auction houses also dispose of 
things, as do estate sales. Only the garbage system disposes of things 
by destroying their value. 
&® Disposal fees can power recycling disposal just as they do 
garbage disposal. There are fees for disposal services rendered. 
Recyclers must be allowed and encouraged to compete with 
garbage interests for disposal fees. This will unlock the 
potential for recycling businesses to handle vast 
quantities of material and eventually to replace 
the garbage system. 
All of what now becomes garbage can be sorted 
into twelve master categories of recyclable 
materials known as The Clean Dozen™: 
Reusable goods, Paper, Metals, Glass, 
Textiles, Plastics, Plant debris, 
Putrescibles, Wood, Ceramics, Soils, and 
Chemicals. Experience has shown the 
Clean Dozen to be a useful 
categorization. Total Recycling 
must include all twelve. Fifty 
percent of total recycling is achievable 
now. It will take more time to do better, but it’s 
going to happen. Because it must. 
Urban Ore now has a consulting service to help others start MRFs. 
They have a growing database 
for sharing their experience and 
| information. Contact Urban Ore Information Services at 
510/559-4454, fax 510/528-1540. 
Sink and tub department shows typically wide selection. Reused 
plumbing fixtures permit upgrading that could not be af- 
forded with new hardware. (Studies show that 
Urban Ore’s operation has had little 
effect on local new retail 
sales of similar 
items.) 
have doors — 
enough to supply 
a local artist who ; 
made an entire cabin 
from doors (all of 
which can be opened). 
The Urban Ore eee 
hing to make yo 
et tpaes providing se to 
novices — just like in = a 
~ 
x 
store, which Urban Ore’s ors 
= 
partment increasingly resembDc>- 
