238 
Taming Technology 
ARTIFICIAL EVOLUTION 
Out of Control 
Philosophers and particle physicists 
study the first microseconds of the uni- 
verse for answers to the Big Question 
about the past: “Why is there some- 
thing instead of nothing?” Kevin Kelly 
addresses a possibly bigger question 
about the future: “Does evolution 
evolve?” 
Kelly sees new scientific disciplines re- 
lated to chaos, complexity, artificial 
life, and theoretical biology as inter- 
locking pieces of a grander puzzle. He 
uses new discoveries in the biological 
and computational sciences to unlock 
progressively bigger questions. By the 
time he is finished, Kelly makes a 
stunning reply to Stewart Brand's chal- 
lenge in the first Whole Earth Cata- 
logs: “We are as gods, and might as 
well get good at it.” In fact, Kelly told 
me, when | pointed that out: “I could 
have called the book Whole Systems.” 
—HLR 
e 
The Nine Laws of God 
+ Distribute being. The spirit of a beehive, 
the behavior of an economy, the thinking of 
a supercomputer, and the life in me are dis- 
tributed over a multitude of smaller units 
(which themselves may be distributed). 
When the sum of the parts can add up to 
more than the parts, then that extra being 
(that something from nothing) is distributed 
among the parts. Whenever we find some- 
thing from nothing, we find it arising from a 
field of many interacting smaller pieces. All 
the mysteries we find most interesting — 
life, intelligence, evolution — are found in 
the soil of large distributed systems. 
* Control from the bottom up. When every- 
thing is connected to everything in a dis- 
tributed network, everything happens at 
once. When everything happens at once, 
wide and fast-moving problems simply 
route around any central authority. There- 
fore, overall governance must arise from 
the most humble interdependent acts done 
locally in parallel, and not from a central 
command. A mob can steer itself, and in 
the territory of rapid, massive, and hetero- 
geneous change, only a mob can steer. To 
get something from nothing, contro! must 
rest at the bottom within simplicity. 
* Sow increasing returns. Each time you use 
an idea, a language, or a skill, you 
strengthen it, reinforce it, and make it 
more likely to be used again. 
* Grow by chunking. The only way to make a 
complex system that works is to begin with 
a simple system that works. Attempts to in- 
stantly install highly complex organization 
— such as intelligence, or a market 
economy — without growing it, inevitably 
lead to failure. 
* Maximize the fringes. In heterogeneity is 
creation of the world. A uniform entity 
must adapt to the world by occasional 
monumental revolutions, one of which is 
sure to kill it. A diverse heterogeneous en- 
tity, on the other hand, can adapt to the 
world in a thousand daily mini-revolutions, 
staying in a state of permanent, but never 
fatal, churning. 
* Honor your errors. A trick will only work 
for a while, until everyone else is doing it. 
To advance from the ordinary requires a 
new game, or a new territory. But the pro- 
cess of going outside the conventional 
method, game, or territory is indistinguish- 
able from error. Even the most brilliant act 
of human genius, in the final analysis, is an 
act of trial and error. 
* Pursue no optima, but multiple goals. Simple 
machines can be efficient, but complex 
adaptive machinery cannot be. A compli- 
cated structure has many masters and none 
of them can be served exclusively. Rather 
than striving for optimization of any func- 
tion, a large system can only survive by 
“satisficing” (making “good enough”) a mul- 
titude of functions. 
* Seek persistent disequilibrium. Neither con- 
stancy nor relentless change will support a 
creation. A good creation, like good jazz, 
must balance the stable formula with fre- 
quent offbeat, out-of-kilter notes. Equilib- 
rium is death. Yet unless a system stabilizes 
to an equilibrium point, it is no better than 
an explosion, and just as soon dead. A 
Nothing, then, is both equilibrium and 
disequilibrium. 
The Entrapment of Form: Certain forms, such as spirals, arise in nature because they reflect the 
constraints of the material they are born in. On this hypothetical “landscape,” down means 
“easier to do physically.” Whatever natural selection takes an organism a step in the direction 
of a spiral, the form is rewarded so overwhelmingly that, whatever other tradeoffs are at hand, 
the organism’s form gives in to the mathematical efficiency of the spiral. The form becomes a 
well into whose basin an organism falls. Straightness has its virtues too, and creates its own ba- 
sin. An organism exploring the saddle between the two basins will sooner or later fall into the 
clutch of one well or the other. 
* Change changes itself: Change can be struc- 
tured. This is what large complex systems 
do: they coordinate change. When ex- 
tremely large systems are built up out of 
complicated systems, then each system be- 
gins to influence and ultimately change the 
organizations of other systems. That is, if 
the rules of the game are composed from 
the bottom up, then it is likely that inter- 
acting forces at the bottom level will alter 
the rules of the game as it progresses. Over 
time, the rules for change get changed 
themselves. Evolution — as used in every- 
day speech — is about how an entity is 
changed over time. Deeper evolution — as 
it might be formally defined — is about 
how the rules for changing entities over 
time changes over time. To get the most 
out of nothing, you need to have self- 
changing rules. 
> | 
ax Ge 
These nine principles underpin the awe- 
some workings of prairies, flamingoes, and 
cedar forests, eyeballs, natural selection in 
geological time, and the unfolding of a baby 
elephant from a tiny seed of elephant 
sperm and egg. 
These same principles of bio-logic are now 
being implanted in computer chips, elec- 
tronic communication networks, robot 
modules, pharmaceutical searches, software 
design, and corporate management, in or- 
der that these artificial systems may over- 
come their own complexity. 
When the technos is enlivened by bios, we 
get artifacts that can adapt, learn, and 
evolve. When our technology adapts, 
learns, and evolves, then we will have a 
neobiological civilization. 
Out of Control 
(The Rise of Neo-Biological Civilization) 
Kevin Kelly. 1994; 521 pp. 
ISBN 0-201-57793-3 
$28 ($31 postpaid). Addison-Wesley 
Publishing Co./Order Dept., | Jacob Way, 
Reading, MA 01867; 800/447-2226 
i 
In one model of evolution, rules of thumb guide both development 
and evolution. Evolutionary rules of thumb work on embryos, while 
developmental rules work on everything else thereafter. Hereditary 
genes develop software routines that suggest strategies such as “try 
keeping the body warm if you have four legs.” Plausible guesses, 
rather than random guesses, move an organism from one form to 
the next (above). If successful, a rule of thumb is stored in the genes, ba 
and reenacted for each individual during development. The same 
script used during evolution unfolds during individual growth (below). 
—Whole Earth Review, Fall, 1992 
os 
OD FD 
— 
Dv 
Tierra 
This program's C source code creates 
a virtual computer and its operating 
system, whose architecture has been 
designed in such a way that the ex- 
ecutable machine codes are evolvable. 
This means that the machine code 
can be mutated (by flipping bits at 
random) or recombined (by swapping 
segments of code between algo- 
rithms), and the resulting code re- 
mains functional enough of the time 
for natural (or, presumably, artificial) 
selection to be able to improve the 
code over time. 
This system results in the production 
of synthetic organisms based on a 
computer metaphor of organic life in 
which CPU time is the “energy” re- 
source and memory is the “material” 
resource. Memory is organized into in- 
formational patterns that exploit CPU 
time for self-replication. Mutation gen- 
erates new forms, and evolution pro- 
ceeds by natural selection as different 
genotypes compete for CPU time and 
memory space. 
Diverse ecological communities have 
emerged. These digital communities 
have been used to experimentally ex- 
amine ecological and evolutionary pro- 
cesses; competitive exclusion and co- 
existence, host/parasite 
density-dependent population regula- 
tion, the effect of parasites in enhanc- 
ing community diversity, evolutionary 
arms races, punctuated equilibrium, 
and the role of chance and historical 
factors in evolution. This evolution-in-a- 
bottle may prove to be a valuable tool 
for the study of evolution and ecology. 
—Tom Ray 
Tierra: On DOS disk: $50 postpaid 
(specify 3 1/2" or 5 1/4") from Virtual Life, 
25631 Jorgensen Road, Newman, CA 
95360. UNIX/DOS source code and documen- 
tation (but not executables) available by anony- 
mous ftp at: tierra.slhs.udel.edu [128.175.41.34] 
and life.slhs.udel.edu [128.175.41.33] 
» 
|, 
