(@olanaalvialeciarelas 
242 WAN fe, eyveiS 
E ARE SWIMMING 
in a great polluted 
sea of language, and 
we wonder why we can’t write. 
We wonder why we don’t want 
to read. Even worse, we cease to 
wonder; we just don’t do it. It’s as 
though it didn’t matter any more. 
A) 
As though hammers didn’t mat- 
ter; as though air didn’t matter; as 
though horses and balloons had 
disappeared. 
It’s not a hardware problem; it’s 
not a brain-wire problem. It’s a 
writing problem. It’s software, 
it’s 
soft 
words, 
it’s 
some 
swampish bureaucratic slide- 
down of mush-mouthed ass-cov- 
ering prose that promotes long- 
term despair in humans. 
It’s the first feedback loop: how we 
read is how we think is how we 
write is how we think is how we 
read. Garbage in, garbage out — 
our hydroponic brains are getting 
overchlorinated prose. To inocu- 
late ourselves against this particu- 
lar virus, this excess of speechify- 
ing and voter-pamphlet prose and 
nicey-nicey high school antholo- 
gies and meaning-stripped feel- 
good advertising jargon and pyra- 
midal journalism and two-handed 
essays (“on the other hand comma 
weasel. 
. .”), it is necessary to seek 
density and clarity. 
oe 
be 
Foie 
2 
Density and clarity. 
Density and clarity. 
It is as William Strunk said to E. B. White all those years ago in that 
Cornell classroom, before the war to end wars had quite finished 
failing, grasping his lapels and leaning forward: “Omit needless 
words! Omit needless words! Omit needless words!” Brevity is so 
important that it must 
be tripled in size; density is so important it must 
be expanded upon. 
Do this at home: Utilizing your Millennium-approved Gaia-friendly 
by-gum-degradable access to paper-and-pencil technology, omit need- 
less words everywhere. Omit them from your cereal boxes and your 
VCR instructions. Omit them from your conversation and your letters. 
Now, put them back. . 
. slowly, slowly. They are precious. They are gifts 
from God, these words. They are molecules of meaning, and the right 
sentence can cure cancer, can cure loneliness, can cure ham. 
We have lingered in the chambers of the sea 
By sea-girls wreathed with seaweed red and brown 
Till human voices wake us, and we drown. 
Eliot! Why not? Old Possum has his tricks; they can be your tricks. 
Concentrate on that comma! That is where the heart turns over, in that 
crooked eyebrow between the pronoun and the conjunction. Ifa comma 
is that powerful, think what a word can do. No, but seriously, folks: 
Think what a word can do. 
Think of what a word can do. 
Concentrate on that paragraph. All by itself, one line, indented for extra 
emphasis. An indent, negative space — that nothing that draws atten- 
tion to the something beside it. Think what nothing can do. How much 
Pe. © / 
5 
_. 
= 
me 
|v 
¥ 
= 
t 
Pe 
_ 
= 
- 
> 
’ 
Va) 
ae 
4 
ing to each other for far less time than our 
ancestors spent swinging from limb to limb 
together. But once we started using our mouths to sling 
a. 
symbols around, we intelligent apes started changing ourselves 
and our planet at a furious pace. 
Human communication and tool-building talents have amplified 
each other, accelerating the pace of change for our species and 
the parts of the world we affect; alphabets multiplied the power 
of language a scant five thousand years ago, and the worldwide 
communications web is less than a hundred years old. 
Communications media create wealth and change the balance 
| e 
of political power because control of communications media 
means control of people’s thoughts and beliefs about the world. 
(See “Electronic Democracy,” p. 288.) One side-effect of the 
miniaturization revolution has been the diffusion of significant 
communication power, formerly reserved for elites, into the 
hands of millions of citizens. Desktop publishing, desktop radio, 
desktop video, desktop computer networking now give knowl- 
| 7] 
edgeable individuals global reach. “Communication” encom- 
passes far more than those activities that can be enhanced by = = 
electronic devices: comix, zines, street performance and the- 
ater, investigative reporting, graphic communication and visual 
thinking, writing, poetry, ritual. 
If you want to publish a zine, set up a computer network, design 
propaganda, make your own musical instrument, start a pirate 
radio station, create a television program, distribute music, 
understand or subvert mass media, you'll need the tools, tips, 
and world views found on these pages. —HLR 
aOR 
anes 
UR THUMBS GOT SMART LONG BEFORE our 
tongues woke up: Homo sapiens have been speak- 
more powerful is a word! It can 
restore kingdoms, restore reputa- 
ts 
tions, restore kitchen cabinets. 
Do this at home: Commit an act of 
clarity. Say the sentence thatis the 
precise description of who you 
are and where you are. Now ask 
yourself: Would you rather be a 
y 
pair of ragged claws scuttling 
across the floor of silent seas? 
Between the question and the an- 
at 
swert lies the act of writing, the act 
f 
of reading, the act of meaning. 
The reason for the passion is the 
fear of loss. We are pissing our 
language away; we are beating 
Se 
our verbs into formats. Meaning 
held hostage! As Monty Python 
asked: “What do we mean by 
‘mean?’” Our brains are at stake, 
the narrow line of clarity between 
the folds of gray mush inside our 
be 
skulls. 
This is God’s video game now. At 
ey 
stake are our declining natural 
prose reserves. 
In the gathering darkness of 
an airless stairwell, Amina 
Sinai is climbing towards a 
prophecy. Lifafa Das is 
comforting her because 
now that she has come by 
taxi into the narrow bottle 
of his mercy, he has sensed 
an alteration in her, a regret 
at her decision; he reassures 
her as they climb. The dark- 
ened stairwell is full of eyes, 
eyes glinting through shuttered doors at the spectacle of the 
climbing dark lady, eyes lapping her up like bright rough cats’ 
tongues; and as Lifafa talks, soothingly, my mother feels her will 
ebbing away, What will be, will be, her strength of mind and her 
hold on the world seeping out of her into the dark sponge of the 
staircase air. Sluggishly her feet follow his, up into the upper 
reaches of the huge gloomy chawl, the broken-down tenement 
building in which Lifafa Das and his cousins have a small corner, 
at the very top. . 
. here, near the top, she sees dark light filtering 
down on to the heads of the queueing cripples. ‘My number two 
cousin,’ Lifafa Das says, ‘is bone-setter.’ She climbs past men with 
broken arms, women with feet twisted backwards at impossible 
angles, past fallen window-cleaners and splintered bricklayers, a 
doctor’s daughter entering a world older than syringes and hos- 
pitals; until, at last, Lifafa Das says, ‘Here we are, Begum,’ and 
leads her through a room in which the bone-setter is fastening 
twigs and leaves to shattered limbs, wrapping cracked heads in 
palm-fronds, until his patients begin to resemble artificial trees, 
sprouting vegetation from their injuries. 
. 
. then out on to a flat 
expanse of cemented roof. Amina, blinking in the dark at the 
brightness of lanterns, makes out insane shapes on the roof: 
monkeys dancing; mongeese leaping; snakes swaying in baskets; 
and on the parapet, the silhouettes of 
large birds, whose bodies are 
as hooked and cruel as their beaks: vultures. 
That’s Salman Rushdie, who was a genius long before he was a famous 
pre-dead writer, and that paragraph is a post-graduate course in 
everything you need to know. “The darkened stairwell is full of eyes”; 
