| 
MMS 
i 
iy 
RTE 
ST 
Uae 
PUBLIC RADIO 
ommunications 
~ 
. 
While covering a major expedition in 
Antarctica, NPR Science Correspondent 
Ira Flatow took time out to do a feature 
on the only natives of this vast and frozen 
continent. Many features are byproducts 
of “hard news,” but anything that rouses 
your curiosity can be the starting point 
for a feature story. —Telling the Story 
_ AudioCraft « Telling the Story 
These days, it’s getting easier and 
easier to get started in video; several 
hundred bucks and anyone can be a 
filmmaker or documentary producer. 
With that obvious attraction, | think 
people with stories to tell are picking 
up cameras and overlooking the audio 
arts. | think that's a mistake. Radio 
(and prerecorded cassettes) still pro- 
vide a vivid, inexpensive, direct me- 
dium for fiction, fact prose and poetry. 
Cameras are more obtrusive and more 
cumbersome than microphones, and 
the difference between special effects 
for video and radio is the difference 
between a gaggle of wizards from 
LucasFilm slaving at computers, or 
your doing something like playing the 
sound of your old lawnmower back- 
wards. Also, no other medium 
matches radio's penetration. No one 
can watch a documentary while driv- 
ing to work, biking, or taking a shower, 
but they can listen to one. There's an 
old cliché in radio that goes, “The only 
difference between radio and TV is 
that on radio the pictures are better.” 
These two books can help bring your 
audio pictures into focus. 
AudioCraft is an entry-level primer on 
the nuts and bolts of radio production. 
It starts out with the most basic ba- 
sics, such as the difference between 
mono and stereo, and eventually cov- 
ers such topics as reverb and produc- 
ing live concerts. Author Randy Thom 
spent years in public radio (before 
going off to become one of those 
LucasFilm wizards, picking up an 
Oscar for his sound work on The Right 
Stuff). He's gathered together straight- 
forward explanations of what all those 
gadgets in the control room do. 
AudioCraft is widely used as a text- 
book at schools and community sta- 
tions, It's an excellent place to start. 
Much of what is best about radio, par- 
ticularly radio journalism, happens at 
National Public Radio. Several years 
back, some of NPR's top reporters, 
producers, editors and engineers col- 
laborated on Telling the Story, a book 
and accompanying set of audiocas- 
settes that explain how NPR does 
what it does. The book and cassettes 
can be purchased, and used, sepa- 
rately, but there's synergistic effect to 
using them both. For example, you 
can read about the principles of tape 
editing, then listen as NPR's top editor 
takes a rambling, disjointed interview 
and makes it interesting. Or hear the 
individual components of an “All 
Things Considered” feature, and then 
go into the studio and listen to it being 
put together. Telling the Story also 
covers areas of journalism that fall 
outside the realm of AudioCraft, such 
as reporting styles, writing for the ear, 
and copyright and libel law. 
—Chris Spurgeon 
e 
Many artists in a variety of fields, visual as 
well as aural, have said that music is the 
most powerfully emotive of all the arts. 
Remember that any sound placed in an ap- 
propriate context can be musical in the 
most basic sense, and inherit that magical 
power. —AudioCraft 
e 
| ask myself: can | bring all the people | 
interviewed for this story into this studio 
and read this script and play this tape right 
in front of them without shame, and when 
—AudioCraft 
I finish, can | look them in the eye (all of 
them) and defend everything | have just said? 
If | 
can, | go in and record. 
e 
Before leaving on an assignment, have a few 
interviews set up. Work the phone hard 
before you leave, and even harder after you 
get there. Ask everyone you interview who 
else you should talk to. If the story is con- 
troversial, ask them who their most worthy 
opponents are and then go do those inter- 
views. Talk to officials and professionals and 
shop clerks and parking lot attendants. 
Know what you must cover and cover 
those subjects with a variety of interviews. 
It is better to have too many than too few 
choices back at your editing station, better 
to be in a position to use only your very 
best interviews in the finished piece. But re- 
member, if you just go out to fill in the 
blanks of a story you have already done in 
your mind, you won't have the story — not 
the real story. —Telling the Story. 
AudioCraft 
(An Introduction to the Tools and 
Techniques of Audio Production) 
Randy Thom. 1989; 200 pp. 
ISBN 0-941209-02-4 
$30 ($32 postpaid) from National 
Federation of Community Broadcasters, 
666 | Ith Street NW, Suite 805, 
Washington, DC 20001; 202/393-2355 
Telling the Story 
(The National Public Radio 
Guide to Radio Journalism) 
Larry Josephson, Editor. 1992; 228 pp. 
ISBN 0-8403-286|-3 
$29.95 ($32.95 postpaid) from Kendall/ 
Hunt Publishing Company, 4050 Westmark 
Drive, PO Box 1840, Dubuque, IA 
52004-1840; 800/228-0810 
Sightseeing with the Mind’s Eye 
Thanks to a hardy band of independent 
producers, and particularly to a public ra- 
dio system that has evolved (despite near 
financial ruin and constant political up- 
heaval) over the past two decades, there is 
an impressive array of programs devoted 
to ideas, art, indigenous and adventurous 
music, and other tantalizing expressions of 
the human spirit. What follows are some 
of the best, and most underappreciated, 
news-and-views radio programs available 
today. —Phil Catalfo 
New Dimensions Radio: Membership $35/ 
year includes quarterly magazine. PO Box 
410510, San Francisco, CA 94141-0510; 
415/563-8899. Since it began in 1973, 
New Dimensions Radio has broadcast 
some |,200 probing conversations be- 
tween host Michael Toms and the leading 
thinkers and visionaries of the past two 
decades: Joseph Campbell, R. Buckminster 
Fuller, Robert Bly, Ram Dass, Patricia Sun, 
Amold Mindell, Matthew Fox, Bemie 
Siegel, and hundreds more. The resulting 
archive is — as the producers claim affec- 
tionately (and not inaccurately) — the 
“Library of Congress of the emerging cul- 
ture.” The weekly series “New Dimen- 
sions” is aired in some | 80 markets; 
programs are also available on cassette. 
Soundprint: 4000 Brandywine Street NW, 
Suite 620, Washington, DC 2001 6; 202/ 
885-] 285, The most wide-ranging docu- 
mentary series in radio today, and the pre- 
mier outlet for some of the most talented 
producers in the country (and abroad: BBC 
productions are also featured). Topics 
range from Jay Allison and Christina 
Egloffs audio verité visit with street gangs 
in East Los Angeles to Larry Massett's visit 
to Mount Shasta during the Harmonic 
Convergence. Now in its fourth year, 
“Soundprint” is heard on | 30 stations na- 
tionwide. Cassettes of non-BBC produc- 
tions are available for $10 each. 
National Public Radio: 635 Massachusetts 
Ave NW, Washington, DC 20001-3753; 
202/414-2000. Three excellent series pro- 
vide a much-needed multicultural perspec- 
tive to our news-and-information menu: 
“Crossroads,” a weekly half-hour news- 
magazine featuring original stories, in- 
depth reports, and profiles, as well as com- 
mentanries by storytellers, poets, writers, 
and essayists of various ethnic back- 
grounds; “Horizons,” an award-winning 
weekly half-hour documentary series “ex- 
ploring the diversity of American culture”; 
and “National Native News,” daily five- 
minute newscasts devoted exclusively to 
Native American issues. 
Pacifica Radio Archive: PO Box 8092, 
Universal City, CA 91 608; 800/735-0230. 
More than forty years ago, Pacifica Radio's 
KPFA-FM, in Berkeley, CA, pioneered ‘lis- 
tener-sponsored radio.” Now Pacifica also 
has stations in New York, Washington, 
Houston, and Los Angeles, and is a leading 
force in the nationwide legion of “commu- 
nity radio" stations. For many years they 
have archived the best of the thousands of 
programs produced by Pacifica and other 
community stations, made them available 
for broadcast by other stations, and in re- 
cent years have also sold them on cassette 
to listeners. As one might expect from 
Pacifica and left-leaning community sta- 
tions, the twenty thousand-program 
archive is particularly strong in politics, 
ecology, religion, minority and women's 
issues, and the arts. Ask for their 
introductory catalog. 
American Public Radio: |00 N. 6th Street, 
Suite 900A, Minneapolis, MN 55403; 
612/338-5000. The “other” public radio 
network. Write them and ask for a list 
of member stations and programs. 
