| was fortunate: the sense of kinship was pervasive in my universe, even beyond my large, extended family. 
could foster the experience of Family more effectively, 
we would have the natural development of a multitude 
of communities; we would have happy, healthy inner 
children growing into happy, healthy inner adults. 
Most of us (in the West, anyway) know the idea of 
Family through the so-called nuclear family. Here we 
have tried to broaden the idea. In the end, what 
matters is not the structure of your family, but your 
experience of Family. We hope the tools and informa- 
tion you find in this domain will lead to a more 
rewarding, more enduring sense of Family for you and 
the ones you love. —Phil Catalfo 
we haven’t fully accounted for. 
devotion to rehabilitating our inner children. If we 
We belonged to each other in the best sense of that word. We were loud and overbearing and | later found 
} 
HEN! WAS A KID, | thought the whole world was Italian-American, and 85 percent of it was a blood relation. 
it necessary to cultivate some other ways of being, but as a kid, through my teen years, | always found solace 
in the experience of Family. Those people loved me, cared for me, and collectively raised me. I’ve always believed that my early 
affinity for the people in my world, a natural byproduct of this ubiquitous familiality, made it vastly easier for me to make friends 
and get along with others — and, more importantly, to believe that | belonged here. 
In the modern world, we have all but lost this beneficial aspect of tribalism. We can’t be bothered with each other, let alone each 
other’s children. The ethos of “Don’t Tread on Me” has insinuated itself into some of the most basic interpersonal relationships 
in our society. This allows us privacy, of course, but it also allows us to be strangers to each other in ways that hurt, and that 
And that has a lot to do with why there is so much spiritual hunger in America, such resurgent interest in community, such 
Happy is the generation where the great listen to the small, 
for it follows that in such a generation, 
the small will listen to the great. —Talmud 
is off with our heart. 
Being a parent goes right to the heart of love. Bam! After the most dramatic 
introduction imaginable, an emotional tsunami sweeps through the delivery room and 
Weare left gasping for air, struggling to get above the tide and a pile of diapers. None 
of us make it for enough time to call ourselves our own again. But that’s the point: we 
are not our own anymore. We belong to the life we have created. 
Parenthood may be the most intense journey life offers. We are carried on the swiftest 
of currents, full of more hope than we dared imagine, as we discover what our children 
bring us. We've never been bigger, better or more important in anyone’s eyes nor so 
aware of our own shortcomings. It’s brutal. 
A parent’s art lies in recognition of the child’s autonomy and respect for the person 
the child is becoming. Ours is not to mold, shape or coerce, but, rather, to appreciate, 
encourage and nurture. It takes self-control and patience. We are rewarded with 
rediscovery and, possibly, redemption. We get the child we deserve. Take a front seat 
as the life before you unfolds, and leave your ego in the mezzanine. —Nancy A. Pietrafesa 
The Moral Life of Children * The Political Life of Children 
* The Spiritual Life of Children 
Robert Coles has been listening care- 
fully to the voice of children’s souls 
since the late fifties 
. His books ad- 
dress subtle but important dimensions 
of children’s emerging selves, which 
they are actively constructing from the 
environment in which they live. His 
keen ear and thoughtful analysis yield 
a comprehensive psychological and so- 
ciological portrait of the child. —NAP 
e 
In this conservative, traditional home, Jesus, 
His sayings, His stated ideals, His expressed 
admonitions, stimulated Anne occasionally 
to rebellion, to outspoken dissent. She had 
learned, | began to notice, that Christ's out- 
spoken challenge to “the powers that be” 
worked well for her as she chafed at the 
everyday constraints of a well-run house- 
hold: “I think of Jesus when I’ve got so 
much to do, too much. He said we should 
follow him, even if it means we don’t do a 
lot of things we’re supposed to do. But we 
get lost in all there is to get done, and 
we're not much thinking of Him. It’s not 
right. | told my mum we need more time 
just to stop and think in this house. She 
said, ‘Well, Annie, what would you think 
about, once you stopped and had all that 
The Mosque and the City —The Spiritual Life of Children 
time put aside?’ | told her, | said, ‘I'd think 
of 
Jesus, and how He said you should con- 
centrate on what's important.’ My mum 
looked up, and she said | was ‘dead right,’ 
and | think then | could have taken the 
whole afternoon off, if I'd have said | was 
going to say my prayers in my room!” 
e 
For many Christian children drawing God's 
face does just that — gives Him to them 
concretely, brings Him “around” | have 
never asked a Jewish or Islamic child to 
draw a picture of God, nor have | asked 
children who assert their indifference to 
formal religion to represent what, after all, 
they doubt or deny as believable. On occa- 
sion | have, however, heard both confes- 
sions and fantasies. In Jerusalem, a Jewish 
boy of twelve, almost thirteen, told me, af- 
ter drawing a picture of Moses holding the 
tablets of law, of his sometime transgres- 
sion: “I think of Moses a lot: he is our 
greatest teacher. My brother [only five] 
asked me what God looks like and what 
Moses saw when he went up the mountain: 
‘Did he see God?’ | said, ‘No, of course not: 
you cannot see God.’ ‘How can that be, if 
he gave Moses the tablets?’ | was stymied. | 
said, ‘These things happen.’ | didn’t con- 
vince him. He was all set — | could tell — 
to ask me a million more questions. | raised 
my voice and said, ‘Don’t ask me; ask Father, 
ask our rabbi.’ | wanted no more questions!” 
| 
ce 
Th 
Political Lite 
\¢ 
Chitaren 
The Spiritual Life of Children 
Robert Coles. 1990; 358 pp. 
ISBN 0-395-59923-7 
The Moral Life of Children 
Robert Coles. 1991; ISBN 0-395-59921-0 
The Political Life of Children 
Robert Coles. 1991; ISBN 0-395-59922-9 
Each $10.95 ($13.45 postpaid) from 
Houghton Mifflin Co./Mail Order Dept., 
Wayside Road, Burlington, MA 01803; 
800/225-3362 
