Care Pooling 
Caregiving is at the heart of family life. 
“Middle-aged” family members find 
themselves caring for the younger and 
older members of the family, often 
without relief or assistance. This book 
suggests an alternative to the sole- 
caregiver model: “care pooling,” the 
exchange of practical help between 
caregivers. This boils down to asking 
others for help, using resources in your 
community that enable you to share 
the burden of care. It seems simple, 
but most people are uncomfortable 
asking for help. Here's direction on 
how to get started, what to say, and 
what you can expect in an exchange. 
Using this model, you'll find yourself 
more connected to your community, 
making some new friends, and better 
able to deal with some of the stress 
that comes with the role of sole 
caregiver. —Nancy Pietrafesa 
e 
Carepooling draws on the common ground 
of our collective caregiving. The details of 
our individual differences blur together as 
we learn to see that every one of us has 
mouths to feed, comfort to give, those we 
worry over, those we are learning to stand 
back and let go, and our own needs and 
wants to reconcile. 
e 
But making dependence inherently inferior 
and independence inherently superior is a 
defeating line of thinking when it comes to 
caregiving. Children, after all, have little 
choice but to need parents. The elderly 
Family 
SAFEGUARDING/SOCIAL ACTION 
may have few options about where they 
can afford to live or what care they need. 
Special needs children may grow up to be 
special needs adults, and there are many 
other uninvited reasons that we as adults 
can, at any time, become dependent on 
others for our care. 
Being dependent to some degree is a fact of 
life all of our life. We never stop needing 
others; in fact, there is no way we can be- 
come independent or interdependent if we 
don’t need others, learn the benefits of 
their help, and find self-worth in receiving. 
Care Pooling 
(How to Get the Help You Need 
to Care for the Ones You Love) 
Paula C. Lowe. 1993; 292 pp. 
ISBN 1-881052-16-8 
$14.95 ($18.45 postpaid) from Berrett- 
Koehler Publishers, 155 Montgomery 
Street, San Francisco, CA 94104; 
800/929-2929 
What Can | Do to Make a Difference? 
The Who, What, When, Where, and 
How of social action. It's especially 
good for people who haven't had 
much experience in volunteering or 
in social action; a variety of activities, 
from wniting a letter to organizing a 
boycott, should enable everyone to 
find his or her comfort level as an 
activist. We often forget to cultivate 
a sense of proactive citizenship in 
our children. This book will help 
you do just that. —NAP 
The Valdez 
Principles 
|. Protection of the Biosphere: Minimize the 
release of pollutants that may cause 
environmental damage. 
2. Sustainable Use of Natural Resources: 
Conserve nonrenewable natural resources 
through efficient use and careful planning. 
3. Reduction and Disposal of Waste: Minimize 
the creation of waste, especially hazardous 
waste, and dispose of such materials in a 
safe, responsible manner. 
4. Wise Use of Energy: Make every effort to 
use environmentally safe and sustainable en- 
ergy sources to meet operating require- 
ments. 
5. Risk Reduction: Diminish environmental, 
health, and safety risks to employees and 
surrounding communities. 
6. Marketing of Safe Products and Services: 
Sell products that minimize adverse envi- 
ronmental impact and that are safe for 
consumers. 
7. Damage Compensation: Accept responsi- 
bility for any harm the company causes to 
the environment; conduct bio-remediation, 
What Can I Do 
to Make a Difference? 
Richard Zimmerman. Plume Books, 
1991; 401 pp. ISBN 0-452-26632-7 
$15 ($17 postpaid) from Penguin 
USA/Consumer Sales, 120 Woodbine 
Street, Bergenfield, NJ 07621; 800/253-6476 
and compensate affected parties. 
8. Disclosure: Public dissemination of incidents 
relating to operations that harm the environ- 
ment or pose health or safety hazards. 
9. Environmental Directors and Managers: 
Appoint at least one board member 
who is qualified to represent 
environmental interests. 
A Parent’s Guide 
to Wills and Trusts 
This well-written and informative guide 
gets us down to the facts of life — 
and death — related to our children 
and our assets, It won't enable you to 
do without a lawyer, but it will give you 
a working knowledge of what your at- 
torney can do for you. The section on 
writing an ethical will — a statement 
of your ideals and hopes for your chil- 
dren — is excellent. These issues 
shouldn't be put off. This book will give 
you a good start. —NAP 
e 
An ethical will often tells your children the 
values you hold deepest, the most impor- 
tant lessons you've learned in life, your fa- 
vorite sayings, special family expressions 
and the religious or secular writings you 
hold dearest to your heart. You might tell 
of mistakes you’ve made and, sometimes, 
even ask for forgiveness. This might be 
the time to finish unfinished business. 
e 
In general, setting up a living trust provides 
No protection against creditors. Since you 
can revoke the trust and maintain total con- 
trol over your assets, you are considered 
to still own the assets while you are alive. 
At your death, the assets in the trust are 
usually subject to claims by your creditors. 
It may be, however, that holding title as 
a joint tenant gives more creditor pro- 
tection to your surviving joint tenant after 
you're gone. State law will determine if 
that’s the case. 
A Parent’s Guide 
to Wills and Trusts 
Don Silver. 1992; 247 pp. 
ISBN 0-944708-40-4 
$11.95 ($14.95 postpaid) from Adams-Hall 
Publishing, PO Box 491002, Los Angeles, 
CA 90049; 800/888-4452 
Orner Great Resources 
Every Kid Counts: Margaret Brodkin, et al. 
1993, HarperSanFrancisco. 
The Kid’s Guide 
to Social Action 
Kids are a largely untapped force 
for social change. Elementary- and 
| high-school-age children are aware of 
environmental and social problems, 
and care about them passionately. 
But few young people know what to 
| do about creating solutions. This book 
showcases examples of kids who have 
influenced policy and solved problems 
in municipalities, counties, and states. 
It offers step-by-step advice on how 
to go about selecting a social problem, 
finding a creative solution, and putting 
it into action — wniting letters that 
work, making effective phone calls, 
creating speeches, conducting surveys, 
circulating petitions, writing proposals, 
helping with fundraising, arranging 
media coverage, assisting political 
campaigns, lobbying. The book also 
offers a rich directory of resources — 
| state house contacts, US government 
offices, contact groups — with ad- 
dresses and telephone numbers. 
Jackson kids plant eighteen 400-pound red 
maple trees near their school. 
The Kid’s Guide 
| to Social Action 
| Barbara A. Lewis. 1991; 185 pp. 
ISBN 0-915793-29-6 
$14.95 ($18.95 postpaid) from Free Spirit 
| 
Publishing, Inc., 400 Ist Avenue N., Suite 
f 616, Minneapolis, MN 55401; 800/735-7323 
221 
