252 
Communications 
MEDIA AND POWER 
UNnde#stanging 
—_<4_ 
—_ = 5 
"0020s 
Manufacturing Consent 
The essential text for anyone seeking 
to understand how the consensus of. 
a corporate-political elite structures 
the overall fabric and content of our 
news media. The authors demonstrate 
how the mass media respond to those 
who hold the reins, serving the public- 
relations interests of incumbent politi- 
cians and well-placed war-mongerers. 
Manufacturing Consent demonstrates 
the techniques media professionals 
employ to reframe issues and events 
(Russian invasion of Afghanistan, the 
Iran-Contra hearings) in order to direct 
public opinion and, ultimately, the 
policies of our elected officials. 
—Douglas Rushkoff 
e 
One of our central themes in this book is 
that the observable pattern of indignant 
campaigns and suppressions, of shading 
and emphasis, and of selection of context, 
premises, and general agenda, is highly func- 
tional for established power and responsive 
to the needs of the government and major 
power groups. A constant focus on victims 
of communism helps convince the public of 
enemy evil and sets the stage for interven- 
tion, subversion, support for terrorist 
states, an endless arms race, and military 
conflict — all in a noble cause. At the 
same time, the devotion of our leaders 
and media to this narrow set of victims 
raises public 
self-esteem and 
patriotism, as it 
MANUFACTURING 
demonstrates 
—— 
T 
the essential 
Sn (CONSEN 
humanity 
Bgonow 
7 
of country 
aes 
and people. 
ui 
DS. HERMAN 
¥ paneer cHOM 
Manufacturing Consent 
(The Political Economy of the Mass Media) 
Edward S. Herman & Noam Chomsky. 
1988; ISBN 0-679-72034-0 
$17 ($19 postpaid). Random House/Order 
Dept., 400 Hahn Road, Westminster, MD 
21157; 800/733-3000 
The Society of the Spectacle 
In May 1968, when French students 
were building barricades and issuing 
revolutionary broadsides, a remarkably 
prescient manifesto leapfrogged far 
over the industnal-era Marxism of stu- 
dent radicals. Guy Debord foresaw a 
day when movie actors would become 
presidents and advertising agencies 
would dominate politics. Debord 
claimed that modem communication 
media and power politics had created 
a whole new kind of world, a “society 
of the spectacle,” in which the forces 
of capitalism and the powers of elec- 
tronic communications combine, in the 
guise of entertainment, to enslave us 
in a form of fascism. The neo-Marxist 
prose Is a bit thick, and the geopolitics 
are outdated. But this is the original 
source document of the hyperrealists 
such as Baudrillard, the political critics 
of media such as Chomsky, and 
the media activists such as 
the Immediasts. —HLR 
The Society 
of the 
Spectacle 
ae 
Guy Debor: 
Society of the Spectacle 
Guy Debord. Zone Books, 1994; 
154 pp. ISBN 0-942299-80-9 
$18.95 ($21.95 postpaid). The MIT 
Press/Order Dept., 55 Hayward Street, 
Cambridge, MA 02142; 800/356-0343 
e 
For one to whom the real world becomes 
real images, mere images are transformed 
into real beings — tangible figments which 
are the efficient motor of trancelike behav- 
ior. Since the spectacle’s job is to cause a 
world that is no longer directly perceptible 
to be seen via different specialized media- 
tions, it is inevitable that it should elevate 
the human sense of sight to the special 
place once occupied by touch; the most 
abstract of the senses, and the most easily 
deceived, sight is naturally the most readily 
adaptable to present-day society's general- 
ized abstraction. This is not to say, how- 
ever, that the spectacle itself is perceptible 
to the naked eye — even if that eye is as- 
sisted by the ear. The spectacle is by defini- 
tion immune from human activity, inacces- 
sible to any projected review or correction. 
It is the opposite of dialogue. Wherever 
representation takes on an independent ex- 
istence, the spectacle reestablishes its rule. 
he power to influence people’s 
perceptions and beliefs is more 
politically effective now than 
naked military might. Affordable 
minicams and desktop video are 
making available to citizens media- 
powers that had previously been the 
exclusive property of elites. 
Access to the means of production 
and the channels of distribution is not 
sufficient, however, if you don’t know 
what you're doing. 
Understanding how communication 
media affect minds and populations 
is a prerequisite to do-it-yourself. Be- 
fore you can seize the media, you 
have to know how electronic simula- 
tions manipulate human emotions, 
and how the mass mesmerism busi- 
ness works. —HLR 
Technologies of Freedom 
This is my choice for the single most 
important book for understanding the 
interplay of media, the First Amend- 
ment, and government in a democ- 
racy. Pool outlines the ways in which 
different communications have been 
treated differently by government over 
the years, and wams of the hazards of 
narrowly interpreting the First Amend- 
ment to apply only to traditional print 
media. Communications technologies 
play a critical role in empowering indi- 
viduals in a democracy, and Pool spells 
out what is necessary to keep free- 
dom of speech and publication alive in 
the 21st century. —Mike Godwin 
e 
A process called “convergence of modes” 
is blurring the lines between media, even 
between point-to-point communications, 
such as the post, telephone, and telegraph, 
and mass communications, such as the 
press, radio, and television. A single physi- 
cal means — be it wires, cables, or air- 
waves — may carry services that in the 
past were provided in separate ways. .. 
. 
Technology-driven convergence of modes 
is reinforced by the economic process of 
cross-ownership. The growth of conglom- 
erates which participate in many businesses 
at once means that newspapers, magazine 
publishers, and book publishers increasingly 
own or are owned by companies that also 
operate in other fields. Both convergence 
and cross-ownership blur the boundaries 
which once existed between companies 
publishing in the print domain that is pro- 
tected by the First Amendment and compa- 
nies involved in businesses that are regu- 
lated by government. Today, the same 
company may find itself operating in both 
fields. The dikes that in the past held gov- 
ernment back from exerting control on the 
print media are thus broken down. 
The key technological change, at the root 
of the social changes, is that communica- 
tion, other than conversation face to face, 
is becoming overwhelmingly electronic. 
Simulations 
French philosopher and social theorist 
Jean Baudrillard calls our expanding 
mediaspace a “simulacre” — a 
simulacrum, a simulation — and 
believes that this artificially created 
illusion has warped reality itself 
Baudrillard wams that our increased 
participation in the simulacre removes 
us from real experience, and stymies 
our ability to accurately access our 
social and political condition. Essential 
reading for any student of contem- 
porary media. —Douglas Rushkoff 
e 
We are in danger of a total dissolution of 
TY into life, the dissolution of life into TV. 
... We must think of the media as if they 
were in outer orbit, a sort of genetic code 
which controls the mutation of the real 
into the hyperreal, just as the other, 
micromolecular code controls the passage 
of the signal from a representative sphere 
of meaning to the genetic sphere of the 
programmed signal. 
SIMULATIONS 
Simulations 
Jean Baudrillard. Semiotext(e). 
1983; 159 pp. ISBN 0-936756-02-0 
$6 ($8 postpaid). Autonomedia, PO Box 
568, Williamsburg Station, Brooklyn, NY 
11211; 718/387-6471 
e 
Not only is electronic communication 
growing faster than traditional media of 
publishing, but also the convergence of 
modes of delivery is bringing the press, 
journals, and books into the electronic 
world. One question raised by these 
changes is whether some social features are 
inherent in the electronic character of the 
emerging media. Is television the model of 
the future? Are electromagnetic pulses sim- 
ply an alternative conduit to deliver what- 
ever is wanted, or are there aspects of elec- 
tronic technology that make it different from 
print—more centralized or more decentral- 
ized, more banal or more profound, more 
private or more government dependent? 
The electronic transformation of the media 
occurs not in a vacuum but in a specific his- 
torical and legal context. Freedom for pub- 
lishing has been one of America’s proudest 
traditions. But just what is it that the courts 
have protected, and how does this differ 
from how the courts acted later when the 
media through which ideas flowed came to 
be the telegraph, telephone, television, or 
computers? What images did policy makers 
have of how each of these media works; 
how far were their images valid; and what 
happened to their images when the facts 
changed? 
In each of the three parts of the American 
communications system—print, common 
carriers, and broadcasting—the law has 
rested on a perception of technology that 
is sometimes accurate, often inaccurate, 
and which changes slowly as technology 
changes fast. Each new advance in the tech- 
nology of communications disturbs a status 
quo. It meets resistance from those whose 
dominance it threatens, but if useful, it be- 
gins to be adopted. Initially, because it is 
new and a full scientific mastery of the op- 
tions is not yet at hand, the invention 
comes into use in a rather clumsy form. 
Technical laymen, such as judges, perceive 
the new technology in that early, clumsy 
form, which then becomes their image of its 
nature, possibilities, and use. This percep- 
tion is an incubus on later understanding. 
Technologies of Freedom 
(On Free Speech in an Electronic Age) 
Ithiel de Sola Pool. Belknap Press, 1983; 
299 pp. ISBN 0-674-87233-9 
$13.95 ($16.95 postpaid). Harvard University 
Press/Customer Service, 79 Garden Street, 
Cambridge, MA 02138; 800/448-2242 
