OU NEED TO KNOW about 
these folks — instead of merely 
complaining and blaming, 
they’re actually changing 
the world. I'll eliminate 
the middleman and let them = 
speak for themselves: 
ye Pei : 
ar 
Rocky Mountain Institute is a non- 
profit research and educational 
foundation with a vision across 
boundaries. 
Seeking ideas that transcend ideology, 
and harnessing the problem-solving 
power of free-market economies, our goal is 
to foster the efficient and sustainable use of 
resources as a path to global security. 
Rocky Mountain Institute believes that people can solve 
complex problems through collective action and their own 
common sense, and that understanding interconnections between 
resource issues can often solve many problems at once. 
We focus our work in seven areas — Agriculture, Economic Renewal, Energy, Green 
Development, Security, Transportation, and Water — and carry on international 
outreach and technical exchange programs. 
Big Power looked a bit silly after Amory Lovins published his now-famous 1976 
paper, The Road Not Taken, and the elaborating 1977 book, Soft Energy Paths. 
Amory argued that growth — especially of energy use — was not necessary 
for prosperity. He demanded credibility by using the same numbers as his 
corporate opponents, who had not been paying attention to changes in 
technology, economics, and public attitudes. The numbers showed that saving 
energy is cheaper than making energy. He dubbed the saved electrical energy 
“Negawatts.” 
Amory showed that negawatts could pare demand to the point where 
renewable energy sources could furnish all the energy needed for everyone 
to live decently. Oil imports (and oil wars) would be eliminated, along with 
risky drilling offshore and in the fragile Alaska Wildlife Refuge. Nuclear power 
plants would be unnecessary. Acid rain, greenhouse gas emissions, and 
environmental degradation would be greatly reduced. Reduced dependence 
on imported energy and on vulnerable, centralized power plants would 
improve national security. And those are just a few of the advantages. 
Such extreme talk attracted vigorous attack, but Amory fended off his foes by 
treating them less as enemies than as unenlightened folks in need of education. 
That was an unusual strategy in those confrontational times, but it has been 
remarkably effective (as well as refreshing). Many foes became clients. 
Amory and Hunter Lovins fired up RMI in 1982, as a means of 
applying the basic 
logic of their energy efficiency work to all resources, and spreading the 
knowledge worldwide. The nonprofit enterprise was an immediate success, 
and continues to grow. The Institute regularly advises major corporations, 
power companies, managers of cities large and small, and the federal govern- 
ment (including the military) at the highest levels. Amory also consults with 
many foreign governments — true citizen diplomacy. Institute director L. 
Hunter Lovins, Amory, and a number of the researchers spend a lot of time 
on the road giving lectures and workshops all over the world. 
The corporate headquarters in Snowmass, Colorado is both the Lovins’ home 
and the main office for more than forty researchers and staff. It’s a working 
demonstration of RMI values: photovoltaic panels provide most of the 
electricity; surplus is sold to the utility. The place uses about |0 percent of the 
power a conventional building would require — making the use of photovol- 
taics a reasonable choice. Water use is about 50 percent of what’s considered 
normal for a building of this size and use. 
The solar design is cool in summer, yet stays cozy in winter even when the 
temperatures drop to -30°r. A semitropical indoor garden produces bananas, 
flowers and veggies, cleans the air, smells good, and provides habitat for a 
delightfully sneaky iguana. The grow- 
Anotner Great E Source 
ing conditions are good — in the 
E Source: 1033 Walnut, Boulder, CO 80302; 
morning you can hear the solar- 
303/440-8500, fax 303/440-8502 (formerly 
powered greenhouse fan flupping 
Competitek) is a for-profit subsidiary of non- 
the banana leaves that have edged 
profit RMI. It's the world’s leading source of 
toward it overnight. The horde of 
information on advanced techniques for elec- 
visitors may take a (quiet) self-guided 
tric efficiency. Big energy users, energy 
tour of the building. The Tour Guide 
policymakers, utilities, corporations, and gov- 
and the source list for the hardware 
ernments large and small pay a membership 
: 
fee for advice and the latest information. E 
used in the house are offered on the 
Source's remarkable track record keeps the 
RMI publications 
list (right). The 
membership growing. 
same techniques and equipment 
could be used in larger, or more 
modest, structures. 
Unlike many environmentally 
in- 
spired organizations 
(including 
Whole Earth, | blush to confess), RMI 
has reduced commuting for its 
people by acquiring nearby homes 
for some of them. (Amory, of 
course, only has to commute fifty 
feet past the iguana.) This simple 
move reduces 
traffic congestion, 
noise, risk, and emissions. There’s 
less demand for fuel, and no need for 
a fancy parking lot. Driving costs 
shrink because noncommuting cars 
eat less, last longer, and attract lower 
insurance 
rates. The Institute’s 
people are living better on less en- 
ergy, at less cost, with no loss of 
amenity. 
RMI is an inspiring example of good 
scholarship, tough discipline, and 
high spirits from talented people. 
They’re making a real difference. In 
just twelve years, this modest group 
has become the world’s most effec- 
tive organization encouraging the 
intelligent use of resources. They’re 
working for all of us. Make use of 
what they’ve learned, and support 
them when you can. —]. Baldwin 
RMI Publications 
Rocky Mountain Institute's extensive publi- 
cations list includes books, reports, reprints 
of articles by and about RMI, videos, plus 
T-shirts and the like. It's free. Here are a 
few of the offerings therein: 
A yearly contribution of $10 helps RMI 
bring you the encouraging Rocky Moun- 
tain Institute Newsletter. Send more if you 
can — they use it well. RMI doesn’t live 
high on the hog, and is as efficient with 
money as it is with energy. Even the 
fundraising is efficient: “We put all our 
begs in one askit,” they say, eliminating re- 
petitive mail. If you can't contribute, at 
least spread the word. 
Visitor's Guide: A descriptive tour guide to 
RMI headquarters, plus a where-to-get-it 
list of the technology used. 
Reinventing the Wheels: The RMI Trans- 
portation project presents an analysis and 
design critena for an advanced automobile 
that could be built today without techno- 
logical breakthroughs. Would you buy a 
roomy, peppy car that could carry a family 
safely and comfortably coast to coast on 
ten gallons of fuel? “Here comes the big- 
Sustainability 
OUNTAIN INSTITUTE 
ae 
The RMI building serves as 
a home, headquarters for 
about forty-five staff 
members and volun- 
teers, and a semi- 
tropical garden 
(with iguana). The 
solar structure 
uses only 10 per- 
cent of the energy 
needed by a con- 
ventional building 
of the same utility. 
Yes, that’s a renew- 
able-energy hot tub 
in the foreground. 
gest change in industnal 
structure since the microchip.” 
A more technical paper and a video 
are also available. 
The Energy Efficient Home: A revision and 
update of the very useful Practical Home 
Energy Savings. Ways of 
cutting home en- 
ergy and water use are detailed, right 
down to brand names. It’s organized well 
enough to serve as the basic text for the 
energy course that should be part of 
everyone's education. | highly recommend 
it, especially for those involved with new 
construction. For larger projects, see Green 
Development Services (below). 
The Community Energy Workbook offers 
extensive, detailed instructions for organiz- 
ing and educating a community to be 
more self-reliant. An intelligent energy 
policy is among the measures that keep 
local money in the local economy. Unusu- 
ally well detailed by field experience, the 
book could serve as a model for any orga- 
nizing effort. 
Water Efficiency for Your Home will help 
you begin to implement your responsibility 
as a water user. RMI's more comprehen- 
sive water publications are listed in back, 
each with a brief description. They reveal 
brand names, test results, and proven 
strategies for setting water policy at local 
and regional levels. “Negagallons!” 
For larger projects, consider RMI's Green 
Development Services. They “work with ar- 
chitects, builders, developers and property 
managers to encourage cost-effective 
state-of-the-art construction that saves 
energy, materials and water, produces 
comfortable and healthful interior spaces, 
preserves habitats and cultural resources, re- 
duces traffic, and limits harmful and thought- 
less sprawl.” This sort of comprehensive ap- 
proach to design will be repaid in the long 
run, and those who must use the facility or 
be affected by it will thank you. —JB 
Rocky Mountain Institute: $10/year 
(membership includes newsletter). 
1739 Snowmass Creek Road, Snowmass, 
CO 81654-9199; 303/927-3851, 
fax 303/927-4178. 
RMI Publications List and RMI Visitor’s 
Guide: Free. 
Reinventing the Wheels: 
Contact RMI for price. 
The Energy-Efficient Home: 
$9.75 postpaid. 
The Community Energy Workbook: 
$25 postpaid. 
Water Efficiency in Your Home: 
$1 postpaid. 
117 
