184 
Health 
WOMEN’S HEALTH 
S FAR AS THE HEALTH care profession is concerned, the Ye 
standard design of the human body is male. 
‘ 
This despite that fact that women make up more than 
half the population. 
This despite the fact that women consume as 
much health care as men — they use more 
prescription drugs, they undergo more unneces- 
sary surgery (notably hysterectomies and cesarean sections), 
and they are far more likely to be referred for psychotherapy. 
By the time we hit kindergarten, of course, most of us realize: 
women’s bodies are different from men’s bodies. Men do not 
have uteri or ovaries. Men do not secrete estrogen or 
progesterone in significant quantites. Men are not prone to 
premenstrual syndrome, dysmennorhea, fibroids, ovarian 
cysts, or breast cancer. 
ks) 
4 
This does not account for the gender biases within health care. 
Women’s health issues are marginalized by the medical industry. Even the 
normal female conditions associated with aging are treated according to the 
disease model. Menopause, for example, has been called an “estrogen 
deficiency disorder.” Ever hear of the disease of male pattern baldness? 
Medical research is almost exclusively slanted toward men — consider the 
systematic exclusion of women from the clinical trials of new drugs on the 
grounds that menstrual cycle fluctuations or possible pregnancy complications 
might interfere with the research. It is only logical to assume that the metabolic 
differences between the two sexes will have a significant effect on the drug’s 
assimilation, yet this is rarely factored into the experimental design. 
Physicians are less likely to diagnose certain kinds of diseases in women than 
they are in men —a 
trend accentuated by the tendency of many women to 
use their gynecologist as their primary-care physician. Long after the 
vectors of HIV infection were deduced, AIDS in women continued to 
go undiagnosed and ignored. And although each year 500,000 women 
die of diseases of the heart and blood vessels, coronary artery disease 
is less likely to be diagnosed in women than it is in men because of the 
perception that it is, somehow, a male disease. Once diagnosed, 
diseases are less often treated: one recent study demonstrated that 
women with kidney disease severe enough to require dialysis were 
30 percent less likely to receive kidney transplants than men. 
Public attention has brought some changes. In 1992, the National 
Institutes of Health undertook a ten-year, $500 million project, 
The Women’s Health Initiative. Support is growing today for a 
medical specialty in women’s health beyond gynecology and 
obstetrics. And widely varied self-help resources for women 
have also become available. 
In the new millennium, per- 
haps women will finally get the health care they deserve. 
—Patrizia DiLucchio 
PMS Self Help Book 
Suppose for one week out of every 
month you had to take a drug that 
made your body bloat up with five to 
eight pounds of extra water, that 
racked your abdomen with nausea 
and cramps, that made you quarrel- 
some, jumpy, and prone to tears. 
This is what premenstrual syndrome 
feels like. 
Susan M. Lark's helpful book will assist 
How Not to Get Pregnant 
There are only two surefire ways to 
avoid pregnancy: abstinence or hyster- 
ectomy. Neither of these is discussed 
in this book. 
What is discussed in this book, how- 
ever, are numerous contraceptive 
strategies — natural family planning, 
the new low-dose estrogen birth con- 
trol pills, the intrauterine device (sadly 
The Female Heart 
Although coronary heart disease 
has been the number-one killer of 
both women and men in this 
+ country since 1910, women and 
their physicians have consistently 
») ignored or neglected its waming 
"signs. The result? Thirty-five 
percent of all heart attacks in 
women go unreported or ig- 
nored, and women are twice as 
likely as men to die after their 
first heart attack. 
Specifically designed for 
women, The Female Heart con- 
tains information about both normal 
and abnormal heart function, women 
at risk, the effects of pregnancy, 
menopause, and estrogen replace- 
ment therapy on the heart, and 
lifestyle changes women can make to 
help their hearts function optimally. 
Buy it, read it, and add it to your |i- 
brary. —PDiL 
The New Our Bodies, Ourselves 
The grandmother of all self-help books, 
Our Bodies, Ourselves is the most com- 
plete sourcebook available today on 
women's health. Such subjects as the 
new Reality female condom, Norplant, 
RU-486, the French abortion pil, 
breast reconstruction after 
mastectomy, chronic fatigue syn- 
drome, interstitial cystitis, and envi- 
ronmental sensitivities are pre- 
sented in the context of larger 
public health questions on how 
the medical care system can be 
altered to better meet women's 
needs. A veritable owner's 
manual for everyone with a 
female body. —PDiL 
\ 
y 
The Female Heart 
(The Truth About Women 
and Heart Disease) 
Marianne J. Legato. 1991; 252 pp. 
ISBN 0-380-72003-5 
$10 ($11.50 postpaid) from Avon Books, 
PO Box 767, Dresden, TN 38225; 
800/223-0690 
e 
Until age fifty-five, women usually have 
lower blood pressures than men of the 
same age. After that, the tables suddenly 
turn. Between fifty-five and sixty-five 
women run the same risk as men of de- 
veloping high blood pressure, but by age 
sixty-five they are even more likely than 
men to become hypertensive. Although 
hypertension appears to be a late-onset 
disease, it can also occur in children and 
even in infants. 
e 
From in vitro fertilization and sex 
preselection to embryo transfer, scientists 
and physicians are working hard on new 
technologies that could drastically change 
women’s relationship to childbearing. . . . 
Most of the money that goes into develop- 
ing these technologies would be better 
spent on preventive measures and basic 
health care services for all women. What's 
more, white, professional, affluent men 
make up the overwhelming number of the 
scientists who research these technologies, 
the physicians who apply them, the legisla- 
tors who approve and fund the research 
and the drug company directors who trans- 
late them into products to be advertised, 
sold, and profited from. 
Above and left: Neurolymphatic point 
relieves cramps, low back pain. Massage 
each area shown in the photographs for 
20 to 30 seconds. 
you to identify and organize your par- 
ticular set of symptoms. It gives spe- 
cific information on nutrition, stress re- 
duction, exercise, and yoga that will 
assist you in putting together an effec- 
tive treatment program. The bonus? 
You'll feel like yourself all month long. 
— PDI 
PMS Self 
Help Book 
Susan M. Lark. 
1984; 239 pp. ISBN 
0-89087-587-| 
$16.95 ($20.45 
postpaid) from 
Celestial Arts 
Publishing, PO Box 
7123, Berkeley, 
CA 94707; 800/ 
841-2665 
unavailable in American markets), bar- 
rier methods (condoms, diaphragms, 
contraceptive foam, and sponges), va- 
sectomy, tubal ligation, and the newer 
methods like quarterly Depo-provera 
shots and Norplant — one of which 
may be right for you. —PDiL 
control pill. Bond is not seen 
showing up at the urology clinic 
with pus dripping out of his penis 
from a sexually transmitted dis- 
ease, nor is his female companion 
for that evening shown eight years 
* 
later undergoing a complicated 
When Robert Redford or James Bond 
microsurgical operation to try to 
make love to a woman on the screen, it 
open up tubes that were blocked 
all seems so easy, so joyful, and so utterly 
from an infection she got because 
free of any responsibility. Bond does not 
she failed to make her strange 
have to interrupt his foreplay to go to the 
lover wear a condom, or was us- 
hotel room dresser to get out a condom, 
ing the wrong IUD. All around us 
nor does his partner for the evening have 
our society is hyping up sex and 
to check her basal body temperature chart 
making it seem like we are truly 
to see if it is safe. Nor is she seen in the 
free from any need of forethought 
morning remembering to take her birth 
or contraceptive planning. 
TEER 
DAD 
I 
i 
caste 
St 
NCL PENT 
How Not to Get 
Pregnant 
Sherman J. Silber. 1987; 323 pp. 
ISBN 0-446-39088-7 
$9.95 ($12.45 postpaid) from 
Little, Brown & Co./Order Dept., 
200 West Street, Waltham, MA 
02154; 800/343-9204 
Spermicidal jelly 
Inside of 
diaphragm 
ent 
Apply spermicidal 
jelly to 
diaphragm 
