226 
Taming Technology 
TECHNOLOGY & SOCIETY 
Questioning Technology 
Does our industrial techno-society 
have you wormed? You should be, and 
the thirty-one writers in this anthology 
tell you why as they present most of 
the principal anti-tech arguments. 
We're not talking emotional airhead 
stuff here, either — this is the care- 
fully thought-out view. And only the 
negative view; there are no balancing 
arguments or suggestions for correct- 
ing the problems. (Maybe no correc- 
tions are possible?) The editor says 
that this collection is intended to be 
thought-provoking, It certainly is. Your 
worst fears will be abundantly con- 
firmed. Perhaps this will goad you into 
appropnate action. —]. Baldwin, unre- 
constructed technotwit 
e 
The vitality of democratic politics depends 
on people’s willingness to act together — 
to appear before each other in person, 
speak their minds, deliberate, and decide 
what they will do. This is considerably dif- 
ferent from the model upheld as a break- 
through for democracy: logging onto one’s 
computer, receiving the latest information, 
and sending back a digitized response. No 
computer enthusiasm is more poignant 
than the faith that the personal computer, 
as it becomes more sophisticated, cheaper, 
and more simple to use, will become a 
potent equalizer in society. Presumably, 
ordinary citizens equipped with microcom- 
puters will counter the influence of large, 
computer-based organizations. This notion 
echoes the eighteenth- and nineteenth- 
century revolutionary belief that placing 
firearms in the hands of the people would 
overthrow entrenched authority. But the 
military defeat of the Paris Commune in 
1871 made clear that arming the people 
may not be enough. Using a personal com- 
puter makes one no more powerful vis-a- 
vis, say, the US National Security Agency 
than flying a hang glider establishes a per- 
Questioning Technology 
(Tool, Toy or Tyrant?) 
John Zerzan & Alice Carnes, Editors. 
1991; 222 pp. ISBN 0-86571-205-0 
$12.95 ($15.45 postpaid). New Society 
Publishers, 4527 Springfield Avenue, 
Philadelphia, PA 19143; 800/333-9093 
son as a match for the US Air Force. 
— Langdon Winner 
e 
A nightmarish vision of human workers as 
“materials” is conjured in the following 
statement by Robert Boguslaw, a leading 
computer systems engineer: 
“We must take care to prevent... [a] 
single-sided analysis of the complex charac- 
teristics of one type of systems materials, 
namely human beings. What we need is an 
inventory of the manner in which hu- 
man beings can be controlled and a de- 
scription of some of the instruments 
that will help us achieve that control. If 
this provides us with sufficient handles 
on human materials so that we can 
think of them as metal parts, electrical 
power, or chemical reactions, then we 
have succeeded in placing human mate- 
rials on the same footing as any other 
materials and can begin to proceed with 
our problems of system design.” 
As the rhythm of the workplace speeds 
up to match that of the computer, the 
resulting increase in both load and rate 
of work, aggravated by the reliance on 
symbols and abstractions that the com- 
puter demands, creates new physical 
and psychological pressures. 
— Craig Brod 
Technology and Choice 
These essays from past issues of 
Technology and Culture dance around 
the central questions of controlling 
technology past and present. Individu- 
ally, they furnish useful insight on how 
we got into our current situation. 
Taken as a whole, the selections ex- 
emplify the intricacies involved — a 
good thing to keep in mind when pro- 
posing countermeasures. —|B 
e 
We can now ask to what extent popular 
beliefs about technology and housework 
are true. First, there is the popular assump- 
tion that technology has made housework 
easier. Certainly market services have 
eased some elements of work, and conve- 
nience foods may also have reduced fatigue. 
As for utilities, we can only surmise that, 
while they did reduce fatigue, their second- 
ary effects created more and new forms of 
housework. None of the technologies in- 
creased general pleasantness of housework, 
made tasks interesting, or improved the 
sense of self-worth of the housewife. 
Second, the popular belief that technology 
mn 
——<— 
THLWN 
vp CUOICE 
F 
syeuettl 
ner © SHE 
Technology and Choice 
Marcel C. LaFollette & Jeffrey K. Stine. 
University of Chicago Press, 1991; 341 pp. 
ISBN 0-226-46777-5 
$16.95 ($19.95 postpaid). Chicago Distri- 
bution Center, | 1030 S. Langley Avenue, 
Chicago, IL 60628; 800/621-2736 
makes housework less expensive is not 
well supported. The impact of utilities on 
cost cannot be measured, while appliances 
and convenience foods are more expensive. 
Only market services appear to be poten- 
tially cheaper than work in the home, but 
this is contingent on placing an economic 
value on the homemaker’s labor. 
Third is the time factor, for which 
"Who Owns Information? 
The old and fundamental social 
contracts about privacy, property, 
ownership, and censorship have been 
rendered obsolete by fiber-optic cables 
and microprocessors. Tricks that used 
to be physically difficult to do, like re- 
producing an image, altering it, and 
sending it to millions of locations 
around the world, can be accom- 
plished today in a few keystrokes. 
Technologies formerly restricted to 
governments and large corporations, 
such as the information-processing 
tools to maintain dossiers on millions 
of people, are now available to small 
businesses. Battles are beginning to 
break out over who owns your tele- 
phone number, whether your boss can 
snoop on your email, and dozens of 
other social issues that result from 
the collision of real lives and new 
technologies. 
Anne Wells Branscomb tackles all 
these issues, and asks all the ques- 
tions technophiles have been reluctant 
to confront. Most importantly for non- 
specialist readers, Branscomb takes 
neither a legalistic or technical ap- 
Who Owns Information? 
(From Privacy to Public Access) 
Anne Wells Branscomb. Basic Books, 
1994; 320 pp. ISBN 0-465-09175-X 
$25 ($27.75 postpaid). HarperCollins Pub- 
lishers/Direct Mail, PO Box 588, Dunmore, 
PA 18512; 800/331-3761 
proach. She brings each issue to life 
via case histories that show how the 
technicalities play out in daily affairs. 
Right now, what we know and say 
about the future of our rights and re- 
sponsibilities in cyberspace is a signifi- 
cant factor in shaping social policies. 
Read this book. Talk with your friends 
about the issues it raises. Getting the 
answers is not as important as raising 
the questions. —HLR 
popular belief would lead us to expect 
a decrease. However, we find that if 
bh 
time is saved by some technological 
means, the saving is offset by con- 
comitant activities and by maintaining 
the new technological systems. In the 
past, the most significant factors con- 
tributing to saving time in meal prepa- 
ration were nontechnological, such as 
smaller families and the increased la- 
bor-force participation of women. 
Now, real savings can be realized pri- 
marily by removal of this activity from 
the home. 
Finally, popular belief has it that tech- 
nology has made for less housework 
and thus for a redistribution of house- 
hold labor among household mem- 
bers. However, the evidence (as op- 
posed to anecdotes) indicates that 
household specialization of labor 
probably has not changed over time 
and may actually have become more 
burdensome to women. 
Recent advances in computers have made 
possible “point-of-sale” data collection sys- 
tems similar to one used at Dahl’s Foods 
Inc., in a prosperous Des Moines, lowa, 
suburb. Each checkout counter holds a 
color computer screen and an electronic 
gadget to read the “frequent-shopper” 
cards the customers carry. Buried inside 
each plastic card is a computer chip that 
records every item purchased, 
along with the buyer’s name, ad- 
dress, age, social security number, 
employer, income, debts, children, 
pets, and other personal informa- 
tion. Those frequent-shopper cards 
are tools in a technological revolu- 
tion changing the marketplace in a 
way that should stir fears that personal pri- 
vacy is being invaded on a scale more mas- 
sive than ever before. Shoppers use the 
cards voluntarily, receiving in exchange spe- 
cial offers directed to their personal prefer- 
ences, but are unaware of the additional 
use to which the store puts their cards... . 
Citicorp . . . is building a National House- 
See also 
Computerization 
and Controversy 
(p. 22). 
Ortner Great Resources 
Ethics in an Age of Technology: 
lan G. Barbour. 1992, Harper San Francisco. 
War in the Age of Intelligent Machines: 
Manuel DeLanda. 1991, Zone Books. 
hold Purchase Data Base covering 
40 million households — nearly 
half the homes in the 
United States — with in- 
formation to be gathered 
from |2,000 retail stores, 
and is eager to sell what 
its databases contain. 
Gerald Saltzgaber, chief 
executive of Citicorp’s 
Point-of-Sale Information Services, dis- 
closed with pride: “Imagine how Coke 
would like to know the households 
that drink Pepsi by name and address 
and then be able to track them. This is 
targeted marketing based on absolute 
knowledge of what the household ac- 
tually purchases.” 
