ee 
The Secret Art of the Performer Fe 
A true how-to book on practical magic. 
Education, friendship, courtship, 
parenting, politics, art, commerce, 
warfare all depend upon a strong 
element of performance. 
This book is an intense combination of 
astonishing and useful lore about how 
performers perform, everywhere in the 
world, illustrated by a profusion of 
equally astonishing and useful 
photographs and drawings. Mudras, 
minuets, masks, ritual, biomechanics, 
dramaturgy, rhythm, staging, 
improvization, semiotics, footwork, 
make-up, choreography, mythology 
and other phenomena are examined 
in The Secret Art. The different as- 
pects of the full spectrum of human 
performance are addressed with at- 
tention to the spiritual, communicative, 
social, and aesthetic meanings of each 
variety of performative behavior. It is a 
vibrant example of what anthropolo- 
gist Clifford Geertz means by “thick 
description.” —HLR 
A Dictionary of 
Theatre Anthropology 
(The Secret Art of the Performer) 
Eugenio Barba & Nicola Savarese. 
1991; 272 pp. ISBN 0-415-05308-0 
| $29.95 ($32.45 postpaid) from Routledge, 
Chapman and Hall/Order Dept., 
29 W. 35th Street, New York, NY 
10001-2291; 212/244-6412 
Street Theatre 
Bim Mason, founder of the Mummer 
and Dada Theatre Company and a 
teacher at Britain's national circus 
school, discourses with loving zeal 
upon all aspects of outdoor theatre: 
processions, site-specific works, guerilla 
performances, strolling performances, 
busking, and much much more. In- 
sightful analyses of dozens of perform- 
ers and groups (primarily European) 
evince the wonderful possibilities of 
working in the open air. 
—Adam G. Gertsacov 
e 
Another piece involves a number of very 
normal people in out-of-date clothes, 
brown macs, suits, and trilby hats. They 
carry placards saying ‘Down with Bicycles’ 
and ‘Pedal Power? No Thanks!’. They 
march down the street like a mini-protest, 
forming a line at suitable locations such as a 
bicycle repair shop. Coming across a line of 
parked bicycles they ‘sabotage’ them by lay- 
ing them on their side. Sometimes they will 
avoid and sneer at bicycle-owners, other 
times they will confront them, pulling at 
their pannier straps, or laying lines of draw- 
ing pins in their path. Occasionally they 
take more extreme and ludicrous measures 
e 
Among the ten qualities of the dancer in 
Indian tradition, there is one quality which 
has to do with knowing how to see, how to 
direct the eyes in space. It is a sign that the 
dancer is reacting to something precise. At 
times, a performer’s training exercises ap- 
pear to be extraordinarily well-executed, 
but the actions have no power because the 
way of using the eyes is not precisely di- 
rected. On the other hand, the body may 
Drawing of an arabesque for a false window 
in the Isfahan mosque (Iran). 
; oe 
oe 
SE: 
Sy 
a 
wea, 
.> 
by lying down in front of them. A cyclist 
who pedals away may be chased by these 
placard-wielding objectors. Although there 
is a confrontation it is gentle, never verbal 
and as far as possible spread amongst a 
whole group rather than focused on a few 
individuals. What they seem to be trying to 
achieve is to make fun of self-righteous re- 
actionary forces but also to provoke the 
spectators into expressing their opposition 
to these characters, safe in the knowledge 
that it is only a game. 
Street Theatre and 
Other Outdoor Performance 
Bim Mason. 1992; 176 pp. 
ISBN 0-415-07050-3 
$18.95 ($21.45 postpaid) from Routledge, 
Chapman and Hall/Order Dept., 29 W. 
35th Street, New York, NY 10001-2291; 
212/244-6412 
PE 
GZ gst 
be relaxed, but if the eyes are active — that 
is, if they see in order to observe — then 
the performer's body is brought to life. In 
this sense, the eyes are like the performer’s 
second spinal column. All the Oriental tra- 
ditions codify eye movements and the di- 
rections the eyes must follow. This has to 
do not only with what the spectator sees, 
but also the performer herself, the way she 
populates the empty space with lines of 
force, with stimuli to which she must react. 
Schematic analysis of an arabesque, one 
of the basic positions in classical ballet. 
Communication 
MANCE AS COMMUNICATION 
An Actor Prepares 
The Source Text. Stanislavski's studies 
of the techniques of the best actors of 
his day are the basis of all subsequent 
teachings. His dedications and worship 
of nature are an inspiration. 
—Peter Coyote 
e 
Never lose yourself on the stage. Always 
act in your own person, as an artist. You 
can never get away from yourself. The mo- 
ment you lose yourself on the stage marks 
the departure from truly living your part 
and the beginning of exaggerated false act- 
ing. Therefore, no matter how much you 
act, how many parts you take, you should 
never allow yourself any exception to the 
rule of using your own feelings. To break 
that rule is the equivalent of killing the per- 
son you are portraying, because you de- 
prive him of a palpitating, human soul, 
which is the real source of life for a part. 
n actor 
prepar' es 
An Actor Prepares 
Constantin Stanislavski. 1989; 320 pp. 
ISBN 0-87830-983-7 $14.95 ($17.45 post- 
paid) from Routledge, Chapman and Hall/ 
Order Dept., 29 W. 35th Street, 
New York, NY 10001-2291; 212/244-6412 
| Ritual: Power, Healing, and Community 
| Ritual is where performance converges 
with community and conjures spint 
The author was raised in a small 
African village, holds degrees from 
the Sorbonne and Brandeis, and 
shows that he knows something ser- 
ous about the essence of ritual, from 
both academic and ground-truth 
perspectives. —HLR 
In the ritual, one has to have participants 
who are invisible and can actually produce a 
result that is unexpected. And because we 
take the risk or the initiative of putting a 
request to the spirits to intervene in our af- 
fairs, their coming turns our activity (cer- 
emony) into a ritual. It still means that we 
| 
as individuals play a central role in making a 
ritual happen. The gods themselves will not 
enact the ritual without us. What actually 
makes ritual a requirement is far beyond 
what the world, as it is, can handle. In the 
surface world our ability to make things 
happen is very limited. This limitation is a 
reflection of the incompleteness of a world 
without the spirit realm. So Spirit is our 
| channel through which every gap in life can 
be filled. But the spirit realm will not take 
care of these gaps without our conscious 
participation. Thus our collaboration makes 
us central to the actual happening of 
aritual. 
e 
A functioning community does not need to 
peer at its members to make sure that they 
comply with the law. A functioning commu- 
nity is one that is its own protection. And 
one cannot form a community whose goal is 
to tear the rest of the society apart. A com- 
munity that wants to “correct” the current 
sense of community is not going to survive. 
Ritual: Power, Healing, 
and Community 
Malidoma Patrice Some. 
Swan Raven & Company, 1993; 127 pp. 
ISBN 0-9632310-2-2 
$12.95 ($16.95 postpaid) from 
Atrium Pub.,! 1270 Clayton Creek Road, 
Lower Lake, CA 95457; 800/275-2606 
279 
