Art and Physics 
Science helps us understand how the 
world works. Art helps us interpret 
what reality means, So goes the 
common wisdom. 
Leonard Shlain makes the bold case 
that art has always been a powerful if 
unacknowledged driving force behind 
science, rather than sideline commen- 
tary. He juxtaposes examples from 
the history of science, and a pattern 
seems to emerge: specific artists’ 
visionary breakthroughs prepared 
everybody, including scientists, for the 
changes in thinking that scientists 
would introduce. 
It is one thing to point out an intrigu- 
ing but inconsequential relationship 
between artistic and scientific evolu- 
tion, and quite another thing to insist 
that the process of art is integral to 
the progress of science — and further- 
more, that both ways of seeing the 
world are not only complementary but 
hardwired into human brains. Dr. Shlain 
directs attention to the idea that there 
is no such thing as a primacy of art or 
physics: each discipline is half of a pair. 
Is the world as we see it, or as we 
think it is? This issue was the crux of 
a two-thousand-year competition of 
ideas. Physics won. Philosophers and 
artists haven't gone away since New- 
ton swept the field, but most people 
today agree that a cure for cancer or 
a doomsday weapon is more signifi- 
cant than a symphony or a sculpture. 
Science has provided an overabun- 
dance of new ways of thinking. We all 
need to learn new ways to see, feel, 
and find meaning. —HLR 
i 
In the latter half of the nineteenth century, 
while scientists fidgeted uneasily at their in- 
ability to explain puzzling features of space, 
time, and light, Impressionist and post-lm- 
pressionist artists alike incorporated into 
their art eccentric images that challenged 
long-held notions about these same three 
[Sinstein for Duckhunters 
Albert Menasco and I labored together 
ona 
job that chopped Abraham 
Lincoln’s wife’s family farm into a sub- 
division. Al was seventeen, a graduate 
student at MIT, working on mathemati- 
cally mutating a basketball into a 
doughnut without piercing the skin, 
and ona 
set of formulae that would 
predict the motion of an ice cube 
dropped into a hot skillet. I was 
twenty-four, fresh out of the Pike 
County jail, Magnolia, Mississippi, 
trying to get back into graduate school 
so I could capitalize on having nearly 
memorized Yeats’ vortical vision. 
I was the chainsaw operator, hacking a 
road right-of-way through old-growth 
hardwoods that Mary Todd had climbed 
as a little girl. Al piled the slash in 
clearings, to be burned in the fall. 
During our first lunch together, I asked 
Albert what he thought about while he 
was dragging brush, and he said that 
he'd spent the morning determining 
e 
. that all the humans on the planet 
Art and 
Physics 
Leonard Shlain. 
Quill Books, 
1991; 480 pp. 
ISBN 0-688-123058 
$12 ($13.50 postpaid) from 
William Morrow /Wilmore Warehouse, 
39 Plymouth Street, Fairfield, NJ 07004 
elements. The twentieth century opened 
with Einstein’s brilliant 1905 solution 
to one of physics’ unsolved problems and, 
simultaneously, introduced three artists 
who would thrust modern art through 
a transformative barrier. 
Early in their respective careers, Henri 
Matisse, Pablo Picasso, and Marcel Duchamp 
assaulted the art world with works that 
both announced and represented three 
radical movements: Fauvism, Cubism, and 
Futurism. (Although Duchamp, a French- 
PRESENT 
5 MILES PER HOUR 
93,000 MILES PER SECOND 
As one ap- 
proaches the 
y 
speed of light, 
the present 
expands until it 
encompasses 
both past and 
future. At 
lightspeed, time 
ceases to exist 
because it con- 
tains all change. 
140,000 MILES PER SECOND 
186,000 MILES PER SECOND 
LIGHTSPEED 
man, was not involved in the founding of 
Italian Futurism, his 1910 Nude Descending 
a Staircase is probably the most universally 
recognized image of this movement.) Fauy- 
ist painters were singing the praises of light 
in the form of color just as Einstein was 
Whole Systems 
PHYSICS 
enthroning light as the quintessence of the 
universe. Cubism presented a new way to 
visualize space, which was the first creative 
alternative to Euclid’s views in more than 
twenty-two hundred years. Einstein also 
proposed an alternative concept of space. 
Futurism declared war on the traditional 
modes used to represent time. By dilating 
the present into the past and the future, 
Futurist painters captured an idea that 
paralleled Einstein’s lightspeed. It was an 
extraordinary coincidence that these three 
different art movements, each focusing on 
a separate element of the special theory of 
relativity, erupted synchronistically with Ein- 
stein’s radical publication. In a strange way, 
it is as if the art world with forethought de- 
cided to fracture the trinity of space, time, 
and light to better understand each ele- 
ment in isolation. Within a few years clus- 
tered around 1905, an explosion of the eye 
accompanied a hyperinflation of the mind. 
Doing Physics 
This unusual book introduces ‘the 
moves, the rituals, the incantations" 
physicists invoke as they go about 
conceptualizing Nature. The lucid-but- 
loaded writing makes quite complex 
ideas accessible to the mathless read- 
er. That reader had better be ready to 
work hard, though; the presentation 
presses the limit of what can be done 
with hard science candy-coated for 
popular consumption. The rewards are 
a better understanding of how physics 
is done, and insights that are readily 
adapted to “doing” other, not-neces- 
sarily-scientific disciplines. —JB 
e 
My plot is straightforward: to describe four 
dominant ways physicists conceive of the 
world, and to describe how they get at that 
world and find out about it. In this enter- 
prise: (1) there is a division of labor; (2) 
things are made up of other things; (3) ev- 
erything that is not forbidden will happen; 
(4) whatever happens, happens on a stage; 
and (5) we find out about the world by 
poking at it. 
would fit in a cubic-mile box, which, 
when dropped into a Pacific trench, 
would have less than a millimeter’s 
impact on sea level. Cheery stuff. 
In an effort to change the subject, I 
asked about his family background. 
Al's father was an Italian immigrant, a 
student of Tesla’s electromagnetic theo- 
ries, who worked through the 1940s as 
a technician in the Princeton laborato- 
ries during Einstein’s tenure there. He 
named his first son after Einstein. 
I confessed my ignorance of the theory 
of relativity, figuring Al must have a 
handle on some of it. A duck flew by, 
headed for Walden Pond, and Albert 
launched into a grand synthesis be- 
tween hunting ducks and applying 
Einstein’s theories, some of which I can 
remember: 
Einstein believed that the measure- 
ments of length, time, motion, and mass 
are not absolute, but depend on the 
relative velocity of the observer. If a 
e 
Now in the Big Bang cosmology, the uni- 
verse might be taken to be an expanding 
gas of matter and field and energy and 
spacetime. As such, it is slowly cooling 
down (for that is what expanding gases do). 
And the various discontinuous transforma- 
tions are analogized to well known behay- 
iors such as freezing. So the Big Bang his- 
tory is analogized to the corresponding 
behavior of well known substances, such as 
an ordinary gas or liquid or magnet. Hence, 
we have here what might be called an anal- 
ogy of substance. For physicists, the world is 
always like something we already know 
quite well, something material and every- 
day. The macrocosm as we might conceive 
of it is a mirror of some quite mundane mi- 
crocosm we already know, or perhaps the 
analogy goes the other way around. 
Finally, physicists account for the appear- 
ance of something from nothing by employ- 
ing models of discontinuous transformations 
as their pictures of Nature’s dynamics. 
These models naturally allow for qualitative 
transformation without the need to pro- 
vide, at least manifestly, a continuous con- 
hunter is standing in a duck blind try- 
ing to kill a duck that is flying past, the 
hunter must lead the duck, shoot in 
front of it, so the shotgun pellets and 
the duck arrive at the same place at the 
same time. If the hunter is moving 
faster than the duck, from the back of a 
jeep, for instance, the hunter must shoot 
behind the duck. 
A single shotgun pellet sitting on a 
duck’s head will probably not kill the 
duck. But grant the pellet a little veloc- 
ity relative to the duck’s head, and the 
pellet picks up energy, and, in some 
sense, mass, so that, at enough velocity, 
the pellet-duck collision is fatal. 
Not everything is relative in Einstein’s 
duck blind. The speed of light remains 
constant independent of the motion of 
the observer. If a duck is flying toward 
us at half the speed of light with a flash- 
light taped to its beak, the light from 
the flashlight is still going about 186,282 
miles per second. If the duck is flying 
away from us and shines the beam 
back, the light is traveling 186,282 miles 
per second. Energy somehow equals 
Doing Physics 
(How Physicists Take Hold of the World) 
Martin H. Krieger. 1992; 168 pp. 
ISBN 0-253-33123-4 
$9.95 ($11.95 postpaid) from Indiana 
University Press, 60! N. Morton Street, 
Bloomington, IN 47404; 800/842-6796 
nection between something and nothing 
(and hence the especial attractiveness of 
transformations that are spontaneous as 
well). So when physicists take Nothing to 
be a relatively greater arbitrariness and 
symmetry, then Something need be just 
what is in accord with an orderliness that 
is sufficiently more restricted than and 
so incommensurable with Nothing's sym- 
metry. And in this manner something 
arises from nothing. 
mass times the speed of light 
squared. 
Late that fall, after I had taught Al 
about motorcycles and drugs, the first 
snows fell, and we torched the brush 
piles. Half of them were sitting on an 
ancient peat bog. The fires burned 
down into underground seams that 
smouldered for years, leaving much 
of the Todd estate useless for human 
housing. —JD Smith 
19 
