MWECis the first Whole Earth Catalog to be 
produced entirely on that overworked 
metaphor, the digital desktop (locally 
known as the Pixel Farm). Everything 
within these covers was typed or scanned 
into our Macintosh computers and 
wrangled into the form before you. The 
process has involved lots of blood, sweat, 
and bytes. As well as the following tools. 
Gate Five Road 
=z> 
AFTERWORD & 
MOREWORDS 
Illustrations such as 
this one, scattered 
throughout MWEC, 
were not created for 
specific pages of this 
Catalog, but doodled 
by James Donnelly 
during meetings. 
The Pixel Farmers, 
as our page designers 
came to call them- 
selves, kept the 
sketches up on the 
wall until the perfect 
spaces appeared. 
James Donnelly, Senior Editor, is also James Donnelly, brilliant and 
bilious copy-editor and cartoonist. We've always dreamed of publish- 
ing one of his merciless, acidic, hilarious copy-edits, but until now, 
we've never found a writer willing to be subjected to public humiliation 
in order to illustrate one of the less visible parts of this book — the 
editing, re-editing, copy-editing, access-checking, and design-tweaking 
that goes into making a final page. —HLR 
SOFTWARE 
HARDWARE 
Our main ax here in the production zone has been PageMaker 5.0, 
page layout software by Aldus. Big thanks to them for their excellent 
product and support (especially Donna Sandstrom!). Photographs and 
illustrations were scanned using Ofoto 2.0, then corrected/cropped/ 
manipulated in PhotoShop 2.5.1. We created line art and back- 
grounds in Illustrator 5.0 and TypeStyler 1.5. The marginal mor- 
pho-movie was perpetrated with, appropriately enough, Morph 2.0. 
Upstream from the art department, we processed words as if they were 
salmon in Microsoft WORD 5.0. Researchers David and Caius used 
Filemaker Pro to track the thousands of addresses, phone numbers, 
and internet addresses that make this catalog so useful. Howard did the 
initial outlining in MORE 3.0. We all used Z-Term 0.9, Eudora 2.0, 
and Mosaic to retrieve reviews and data online. 
Helpful utilities: Retrospect Remote for archival backup, Apple 
Fileshare 4.0 and Timbuktu Remote for network management, and 
Now Boomerang and Now Menus to optimize Apple System 7.1. 
Whole Earth editorial, research, and production departments put 
high mileage on Apple Macintosh Quadra 610s, 650s, and 
800s, Performa 520s, Power-books, Mac Ils, anda Mac SE. 
We used Apple ADB mice, Kensington trackballs, and 
screens by Radius, SuperMac, and Apple. Proof printing was 
done on two Apple Laserwriter Il NTXs andan | 1x17" QMS 
860 laserprinter. To store and archive the entire |.45 gigabyte 
project, we used hard drives from Seagate and Apple, a PLI 
88mg Syquest drive, anda DAT drive by Micronet Technology. 
For scanning, we put AppleScanners and an HP Scanjet 
through an endurance contest. We took slides to MarinStat 
(Mill Valley, CA) for scanning. Modems by Global Village, 
U.S. Robotics, and Meridian got us connected. The Whole 
Earth computers are on an EtherNet local-area network installed 
by LanMinds of Berkeley, usinga Shiva FastPath anda Farralon 
Star Controller. And we couldn’t of done it without the 
amazing flying Woosh. Wheee!!! 
—Winslow Colwell — 
383 
