34 Whole Systems 
SPIRITUALITY 
The Miracle of Mindfulness 
Any authentic spiritual teaching, no 
matter what name it goes by, will 
bring up the question of attention and 
awareness. And few traditions have as 
perfected a repertoire of methods for 
refining the attention as Buddhism. 
Thich Nhat Hanh, a Vietnamese Bud- 
dhist monk and peace activist, pro- 
vides an excellent introduction to this 
central topic of the spiritual path in 
this simple, eloquent book. 
“Mindfulness,” as Nhat Hanh calls it 
is partly a matter of formal meditation 
practice — for example, sitting quietly 
and focusing the attention on the 
breath (a meditation that is said to go 
back to the Buddha himself). But it is 
much more. Mindfulness, he stresses, 
is something that can and should be 
practiced in every moment of our lives. 
The Miracle of Mindfulness offers 
clear, simple suggestions for heighten- 
ing the meditative quality in daily life. 
Supplementing the book is a selection 
of Buddhist sutras that provide a tradi- 
tional context for the practices so 
evocatively described here. 
—Richard Smoley 
e 
When your mind is liberated your heart 
floods with compassion: compassion for 
yourself, for having undergone countless 
sufferings because you were not yet able to 
relieve yourself of false views, hatred, igno- 
rance, and anger; and compassion for oth- 
ers because they do not yet see and so are 
still imprisoned by false views, hatred, and 
ignorance and continue to create suffering 
for themselves and for others. Now you 
look at yourself and at others with the eyes 
of compassion, like a saint who hears the 
cry of every creature in the universe and 
whose voice is the voice of every person 
who has seen reality in perfect wholeness. 
As a Buddhist Sutra hears the voice of 
the Bodhisattva of compassion: 
The wondrous voice, the voice of the one 
who attends to the cries of the world 
The noble voice, the voice of the rising 
tide surpassing all the sounds of the 
world 
Let our mind be attuned to that voice. 
Put aside all doubt and meditate on the 
pure and holy nature of the regarder 
of the cries of the world 
Because that is our reliance in situations 
of pain, distress, calamity, death. 
Perfect in all merits, beholding all sentient 
beings with compassionate eyes, making 
the ocean of blessings limitless, 
Before this one, we should incline. 
Ortner Great Resources 
Hua Hu Ching (The Unknown Teachings 
of Lao Tzu .) Brian B. Walker. 1994, 
HarperSanFrancisco. 
See also 
Meditation, 
The Miracle of Mindfulness 
(A Manual on Meditation) 
Thich Nhat Hanh. 1976, 1992; 160 pp. 
ISBN 0-8070-1201-7 
$10 ($13.75 postpaid) from Beacon Press, 
25 Beacon Street, Boston, MA 02108; 
617/742-2110 
Voices of the First Day 
Australian Aboriginal culture is about 
everything in the imaginal realm and 
everything in the natural environment. 
Dreams and springs, states of con- 
sciousness and natural cycles, spiritual- 
ity and survival lore are inextricably 
connected with one another. If you 
harbor even the slightest suspicion 
that Aboriginal culture is “primitive” 
because these people reject agricul- 
ture, architecture, writing, clothing, and 
animal domestication, this book will 
awaken you. 
Author Robert Lawlor has compiled 
the best of what the Aboriginals have 
let outsiders know about their ecologi- 
cal and shamanic practices, origin 
myths and kinship rituals, social and 
spiritual practices. The illustrations are 
spectacular, more than | 50 color and 
duotone illustrations include some of 
the earliest photographs of Abonginal 
people, shown here for the first time. 
A portion of the proceeds from sales 
of Voices of the First Day will go to 
Denooch Aboriginal Healing Centre 
and South Australian Earth Sanctuar- 
ies. The Healing Center assists Abongi- 
nes in using tribal healing methods to 
cure alcohol, drug, and tobacco addic- 
tion. Earth Sanctuaries provide a home 
for Australian endangered species. 
—HLR 
e 
All creatures — from stars to humans to 
insects — share in the consciousness of the 
IE 
vOICES C 
Doom 
| 
aeclsinge™ 
Voices of the First Day 
(Awakening in the Aboriginal Dreamtime) 
Robert Lawlor. 1991; 412 pp. 
ISBN 0-89281-355-5 
$24.95 ($26.95 postpaid) from Inner 
Traditions International c/o American Inter- 
national Distribution Corp., 64 Depot Rd., 
Colchester, VT 05446; 800/445-6638 
primary creative force, and each, in its own 
way, mirrors a form of that consciousness. 
In this sense the Dreamtime stories per- 
petuate a unified world view. This unity 
compelled the Aborigines to respect and 
adore the earth as if it were a book im- 
printed with the mystery of the original 
creation. The goal of life was to preserve 
the earth, as much as possible, in its initial 
purity. The subjugation and domestication 
of plants and animals and all other manipu- 
lation and exploitation of the natural world 
— the basis of Western civilization and 
“progress” — were antithetical to the 
sense of a common consciousness and 
origin shared by every creature and 
equally with the creators. To exploit 
this integrated world was to do the same 
to oneself. 
Every land formation and creature, by its 
very shape and behavior, implied a hidden 
meaning; the form of a thing was itself an 
imprint of the metaphysical or ancestral 
consciousness that created it, 
as well as the universal ener- 
gies that brought about its 
material manifestation. These 
aspects of the Dreamtime 
creation myth imply a world 
in which the metaphysical 
and physical are held in 
symbolic integration. One 
cannot consider the visible 
and invisible worlds sepa- 
rately. The Aboriginal 
languages that emerged 
from this world view are 
rich in a metaphoric flow 
integrating physical, psycho- 
logical, and spiritual levels 
of experience. 
| 
The Mimi spirit with a ser- 
pent symbolizes the power of 
Eros in association with the 
primal forces of the earth. 
Dzogchen 
Dzogchen, the “Great Perfection,” has 
always been one of the most elusive 
teachings of Tibetan Buddhism. 
Dzogchen, which bears some resem- 
blance to Zen, teaches that the “self- 
perfected” state of mind, without the 
interference of categories or concepts, 
is the mind's natural state. This makes 
it difficult to talk about in words, but 
Namkhai Norbu, a Tibetan Dzogchen 
master now living in Italy, conveys 
something of its flavor in this concise, 
intelligent book. He emphasizes that 
Dzogchen is not a sect or religion, “but 
a state of knowledge that masters 
have transmitted beyond any limits 
of sect.” Once the teacher has famil- 
iarized the student with this state of 
knowledge, it's up to the student 
to maintain it with his or her own 
practice. —Richard Smoley 
e 
When a master teaches Dzogchen, he or 
she is trying to transmit a state of knowl- 
edge. The aim of the master is to awaken 
the student, opening that individual’s con- 
sciousness to the primordial state. The 
master will not say: ‘Follow my rules and 
obey my precepts!’, but will say: ‘Open 
your inner eye and observe yourself. Stop 
seeking an external lamp to enlighten you 
from outside, but light your own inner 
lamp. Thus the teachings will come to 
live in you, and you in the teachings.’ 
e 
Garab Dorie, the first Dzogchen master, 
after teaching for the whole of his life, left 
behind, for all the Dzogchen practitioners 
of the future, a small testament three 
verses long. The verses read: 
Introduce the state directly. 
Don’t remain in doubt. 
Continue in the profound knowledge 
of self-liberation. 
‘Introducing the state directly’ refers to the 
transmission by the master, who, in various 
ways, introduces and brings the disciple to 
understand the condition of ‘what is’, the 
individual’s primordial state. This is the 
Base. ‘Not remaining in doubt’ means that 
one must have a precise knowledge of this 
state, finding the state of the presence of 
contemplation which is one and the same in 
all the thousands of possible experiences. 
This is the Path. ‘Continue in the profound 
knowledge of self-liberation’ is the Fruit. 
What it means is that the complete and 
unchangeable knowledge of self-liberation 
is totally integrated with one’s daily life, and 
that in all circumstances one continues in 
that state. All the hundreds and hundreds 
of original texts of Dzogchen can be con- 
sidered to be an explanation of these three 
verses of Garab Dorje. But the teachings 
are not just a book or a tradition, they 
are a living state of knowledge. 
Dzogchen 
; 
(The Self-Perfected State) 
jj 
Namkhai Norbu & 
Adriano Clemente. Pen- 
guin Books, 1990; 96 pp. 
ISBN 0-14-019167-4 
$7.95 ($9.95 postpaid) 
from Penguin USA/Cash 
Sales, 120 Woodbine 
Street, Bergenfield, NJ 
07621; 800/253-6476 
