298 
Political Tools 
LAW 
The Oxford Companion to the Supreme Court 
You need not be a lawyer to be fasci- 
nated by this stunningly comprehensive 
reference work. The contributors’ list (a 
resource in its own right) includes pro- 
fessors of law and related disciplines, 
attomeys, judges, and a sprinkling of 
joumalists: this probably explains the 
breadth of the book's appeal. 
Hundreds of alphabetical entries are 
cross-indexed by case name and by 
topic. These include summaries of 
leading decisions, profiles of all jus- 
tices, and essays on trends and issues 
before our High Court. The Compan- 
ion’s detail and esoterica will pique the 
veteran courtwatcher, who will devour 
sections on the architecture of the Su- 
preme Court Building, the historical 
antecedents to the Court, and the tra- 
ditional quill pens. Yet the basics are 
included for the willing novice. This 
compendium would be a thoughtful 
graduation present, considerably more 
useful than Black’s Law Dictionary. A 
word of caution: do not loan this inter- 
esting book to your lawyer. She might 
not retum it! —Anita Susan Brenner 
Long essays on subjects such as Con- 
traception and Speech and the Press 
put a range of Court opinions into con- 
text, explain the troubling issues that 
resurface from case to case, or trace 
the development of Court doctrines 
and practices. My personal favorite is 
Bryan Gamer's entry on the changing 
literary style of Supreme Court opin- 
ions. The Companion is a must for 
people who want to understand what 
the Supreme Court does and what its 
decisions mean. —Mike Godwin 
e 
Furman v. Georgia, 408 U.S. 238 (1072), 
argued |7 
Jan. 1972, decided 29 June 1972 
per curiam by vote of 5 to 4; Stewart, 
White, Douglas, Brennan, and Marshall each 
concurred separately; Burger, Blackmun, 
Powell, and Rehnquist dissented jointly and 
separately. The Supreme Court, for the 
first time, struck down the death penalty 
under the *cruel and unusual punishment 
clause of the *Eighth Amendment. A jury in 
Georgia had convicted Furman for murder, 
and juries in Georgia and Texas had con- 
victed two other petitioners for rape. All 
three juries imposed the death penalty with- 
out any specific guides or limits on their 
discretion. The Supreme Court in McGautha 
v. California (1971) had previously held that 
such guidelines were unnecessary. All three 
petitioners were African-American. Three 
justices for the majority found that jury dis- 
cretion produced a random pattern among 
those receiving the death penalty and that 
this randomness was cruel and unusual. 
Two justices found capital punishment a 
per se violation of the Constitution. .. . 
The dissenters argued that the courts 
should not challenge legislative judgments 
about the desirability and effectiveness of 
punishments. They also pointed to opinion 
polls showing general public support for 
the penalty. 
e 
*Webster v. Reproductive Health Services 
(1989) eliminated the trimester framework 
and represented a significant retreat from 
abortion rights. In upholding a Missouri law 
that declared that life began at conception, 
THE.OXFORD, 
° 
{PANION 
OFTHE UNITED STATES 
» 
> 
i 
The Oxford Companion 
to the Supreme Court 
Kermit L. Hall, Editor. 1992; 
1032 pp. ISBN 0-19-505835-6 
$49.95 ($54.95 postpaid). Oxford University 
Press/Order Dept., 2001 Evans Road, Cary, 
NC 27513; 800/451-7556 
forbade the use of any public funds and 
facilities for abortions, and required viability 
testing in abortions after twenty weeks, the 
Court sustained restrictions similar to those 
it had invalidated in Akron and Thornburgh. 
Webster stopped short of overturning Roe 
v. Wade outright — but only by one vote. 
Justice O’Connor, who supported the re- 
strictions on the choice of abortion, refused 
to join the other four members of the ma- 
jority in an outright reversal. Chief Justice 
Rehnquist's charge that “the dissent accuses 
us .. 
. of cowardice,” Justice Scalia’s sarcas- 
tic prediction that “the outcome of today’s 
case will doubtless be heralded as a triumph 
of judicial statesmanship,” and Justice Black- 
mun’s “fear for the integrity of, and public 
esteem for, this Court” typify the reaction 
to Webster within and outside the judiciary. 
The courts have never been detached from 
politics, but in Webster, the Court politi- 
cized itself to an unprecedented degree; 
no opinion, and no public reaction, made 
any distinction between result and doc- 
trine. Students of the Supreme Court's 
role in American politics might conclude 
that this episode illustrates the dangers of 
the Court's attempting to resolve political 
disputes. But we might just as plausibly con- 
clude that the real lesson of Webster is the 
danger of any efforts by elected officials 
to remove constitutional rights once 
courts have recognized them. 
e 
On 19 January 1970, Nixon nominated 
Carswell for the Supreme Court vacancy 
created by the resignation 
The Fourth Estate and the Constitution 
This skeptical history describes the 
Revolutionary courts’ discriminatory in- 
terpretation of common law where it 
applied to Loyalist printers. Close scru- 
tiny of the Constitution's framers, and 
analysis of the contentious process by 
which the First Amendment was draft- 
ed, reveal the pragmatic, very political 
foundation for what is now an Ameri- 
can principle — freedom of the press. 
The author examines key issues in 
the media’s emergence as our Fourth 
Estate:* excessive damages in libel 
cases, prior restraints, access to sources 
and information, the media as a mo- 
nopoly (antitrust). Powe also outlines 
some judicial models that suggest both 
descriptive and prescriptive accuracy. 
Weighing the ideal of a fair press 
against the imperative of a free press, 
Powe concludes with Justice Robert 
Jackson's statement that “the very 
purpose of a Bill of Rights was to 
place certain subjects beyond the 
reach of majorities,” noting that free- 
dom of the press is — theoretically, at 
least — not for the Fourth Estate's 
benefit, but for that of the public at 
large. —Anita Susan Brenner 
* The English estates of governance are 
the Lords Spiritual, Lords Temporal, and 
Commons. “Fourth estate” describes any 
politically influential entity other than these. 
But it is generally understood to refer to 
the press. | mean the Media. —JD 
e 
When it really counted, the Supreme Court 
guaranteed that the press could perform its 
various roles in our democracy. But, apart 
from Justice Douglas, and with the excep- 
tion of some overblown dicta from other 
justices, the Court never saw the right-to- 
know model as a viable First Amendment 
doctrine. Whether out of distrust of the 
Nolo Press 
! owe Nolo Press a bit of a debt 
of honor. Back in my late teens, 
their books helped me out of a 
bad marriage. 
press, distrust of its own abilities, or faith- 
fulness to a simpler constitutional ideal, the 
Court never embraced either side of the 
right to know. In rejecting that theory, 
however, it never endangered the es- 
sential autonomy of a free press. 
e 
The First Amendment, after all, does not 
refer to press “responsibility” even in the 
limited sense of the “abuse” clause found in 
most state constitutions. Nor can we look 
to the Bill of Rights generally, or to the 
press of the late eighteenth century, or 
even to evolving traditions, to import fair- 
ness into the First Amendment. Some parts 
of the Bill of Rights, such as the “fair trial” 
provisions, promote fairness; others, such 
as the right against self-incrimination, do 
not. The First Amendment, to the extent 
that the framers would have thought about 
it in that way, is a provision that would not 
promote fairness. The framers knew a par- 
tisan and scurrilous press, not a fair one. 
Two hundred subsequent years may have 
toned the press down, but even since the 
advent of so-called objective journalism 
it is still debatable whether fairness has 
become a journalistic norm. 
The Fourth Estate 
and the Constitution 
(Freedom of the Press in America) 
Lucas A. Powe, Jr. University of California 
Press, 1991; 350 pp. ISBN 0-520-08038-6 
$14 ($17 postpaid) from California/ 
Princeton Fulfillment Services, 1445 Lower 
Ferry Road, Ewing, NJ 08618; 800/777-4726 
Nolo’s legal self-help books can disen- 
tangle the legal complexities attending 
life's conflicts and tragedies, large and 
small. They are also quite strong on 
sub-legal advice 
of Abe *Fortas.... 
The Carswell nomination 
was attacked on both politi- 
cal and professional grounds. 
He was criticized for racial 
remarks in a 1948 campaign 
speech, for his courtroom 
treatment of African-Amer- 
icans, and for helping a 
municipal golf course evade 
desegregation while he was 
U.S. attorney. Prominent 
lawyers and law professors 
criticized his judicial record, 
noting that his reversal rate 
as district judge was among 
Nolo’s Pocket Guide to 
California Law 
$10.95 
/ CLAW « Attorney Lisa Guerin & Nolo Press Editors * 
California 2nd Edition * ISBN 0-87337-244-1 
The only plain English guide to the laws that 
affect Californians everyday. 
Get quick, clear 
answers to questions about child support, cus- 
tody, consumer rights, employee rights, govern- 
ment benefits, divorce, bankruptcy, adoption, 
Nolo’s Pocket Guide to Family Law 
$14.95 /FLD © Attorneys Robin Leonard and Stepner flias + 
National 3rd Edition * ISBN 0-8733/-217-4 
Here's a clear, easy-to-read resource for anyone 
who has a question or problem involving family 
for all kinds of 
vexations: living 
together, the 
landlord/tenant 
relationship (as 
viewed from 
both vantage 
points), planning 
for one's demise, 
and the night- 
mare of divorce 
and child sup- 
port. Written in 
plain English, 
they carefully 
the highest in his circuit. 
Republican senator Roman 
Hruska of Nebraska, who 
Nolo's Pocket Guide to 
was floor manager for the 
California Law on Disk 
nomination, did not help 
eslisble Apel 1004 
wills and much more. 
law—marriage, divorce, adoption, custody, sur— 
rogacy, living together and more. 
Nolo’s Pocket Guide to Consumer Rights 
$12.95 /CAG © Barbara Kautman * California 
2nd Edition © 
ISBN 0-87337-218-2 
guide the reader 
through Byzan- 
tine legal proc- 
esses in a very 
Carswell with his comment, 
cited in the Congressional 
Record, that even the medi- 
ocre are “entitled to a 
little representation.” 
Macintosh 
Windows 
$2495 $17.47 /CLWIN 
Otter expires June 1, 1994 
$2495 
$17.47/CLM 
Nolo’s Pocket Guide to California Law is also 
available on disk. With this new format, you have 
plain English summaries of California law just a 
few key strokes away. You can rapidly search 
through California law by topic and subtopics, or 
by using the key-word index. The program 
tracks and saves searches, and allows you to save 
text to a file for later use. 
Nolo's Pocket Guide to Consumer Rights provides 
practical solutions to hundreds of consumer 
problems. Get clear, concise answers to your 
everyday consumer questions and learn how to 
assert your rights when things go wrong. Learn 
what to do when you have a problem with: 
airlines, insurance companies, ry cleaners, credit 
cards, travel agents, misleading ads. junk mail. 
contractors, lawyers, movers, defective merchan- 
dise, warranties, and much more 
accessible and 
comprehensible 
manner. Their 
catalog/news- 
= 
