yyw Null) Lemos] 
(eo) Mele) 4 
HE MOST IMPORTANT PART OF ANY TECHNOLOGY, 
more often than not, turns out to be invisible. If you could peer 
through magical spectacles that would reveal the parts of 
aluminum cans that you normally don’t see, for example, you 
would perceive lines of force connecting the contents of your 
refrigerator to global geopolitical conflicts. 
When | pop open an aluminum can, it hardly ever occurs to me 
to think about the working conditions in the West Indies (bauxite 
is mined in Jamaica), or the costs of rejecting nuclear power in 
favor of other energy-production technologies (if the energy 
used to manufacture cans doesn’t come from a nuclear reactor, 
it comes from one fossil fuel or another or froma dammed river). 
An aluminum can affects and is affected by the the cost-effective- 
ness of truck tires (which translates to miles-per-gallon-per- 
pound of cans) and the price of petroleum needed to transport 
all that ore, refined metal, and end-products around the world. 
Aluminum begins with someone digging the right kind of ore out 
of the earth, but the most expensive component of a can is the 
energy required to extract, process, manufacture, and transport 
it to your hand. 
Profits and benefits from new technologies like aluminum foil and 
aluminum aircraft are visible, but costs and delayed or distant 
effects are invisible. What we need badly right now is a way for 
more and more people to see, understand, and decide collec- 
tively, through our discussions and our buying and voting deci- 
sions, exactly which trade-offs we are willing to make in return 
for technological conveniences. We need to find ways to make 
the invisible parts of technology more visible. 
While an endless addictive quest fer a “technological fix” is not 
the answer to the problem of building a sustainable civilization for 
i 
die de de a 
Dalageein 30) Giit-tech 
billions of people on a planet with limited resources; neither, | 
believe, is it wise to reject the very technologies we are going to 
need in years to come. We need the best tools we can muster to 
manage the world of energy-consuming billions we’ve inherited. 
We can’t discard our tools, despite their evident defects, because 
we need them for our survival. 
How do we find new modes of perceiving technology, new ways 
to think about, design, and use tools? How can we develop more 
conscious means for democratic societies to make decisions 
about technologies? The next step beyond access to tools is 
access to understanding how to use them. In what directions does 
that step proceed? How do we start learning to look at the world 
of technology, and our places in it, in new ways? Before we can 
hope to achieve answers, we must elevate the level of discourse 
from an argument between tree-huggers and nuke-lovers. The 
world is more complicated than that. We need richer, more 
widespread, less simplistically polarized discourse about technol- 
ogy and social issues, because that is the only kind of environment 
where viable solutions are likely to emerge. 
The following pages encompass a wide spectrum of opinion, from 
direct attacks upon technology to tech tricks from hardware 
hackers. Those who think about technology’s broader conse- 
quences, and those who build virtual reality goggles in their 
garage, those who seek to influence public policy and those who 
want to roll their own technology, are included. Our eclectic 
gathering of critics and enthusiasts helps us look at future 
technologies — artificial life, artificial evolution, nanotechnology, 
virtual reality — and at the cultural and social impact of current 
tools. Think of this domain as the laboratory for a thought- 
experiment. Maybe one or more of you who read this will help 
devise solutions to the problems raised here. —HLR 
HE MOST IMPORTANT ASPECT OF ANY TECHNOLOGY, 
more often than not, turns out to be how it is 
applied, by whom, and for what purpose. Consider 
lasers. They can be used for delicate eye surgery, 
rock dance light shows, pickups on CD players, and 
death rays. Corporate planners and politicians may 
decide what uses take precedence, but it is scien- 
tists, designers and design engineers (by whatever 
name) who make the deployment of a technology 
possible. They transform a basic technology into 
available products. It is unfortunate that persons 
with so important a mandate are so narrowly 
specialized and so vulnerable to compromise and 
corruption. 
Some of the worst problems arise when a new 
technology is utilized for weaponry. There is some 
truth to the cliche that guns don’t kill people, people 
kill people; but it won’t do. There is a curious 
short-sighted state of mind that seems to dominate 
weapons work, For example, thousands of anti- 
personnel mines, permanently undetectable by any 
means, are buried each year in the soil of what is 
(temporarily) regarded as “enemy territory.” Even 
the conquerer cannot use or reclaim the land, 
yet those mines are still sold. An ordinary citizen, 
perhaps a neighbor, got up one morning, had coffee, 
kissed the wife and kids, and went to the office to 
design those mines on purpose to be an ongoing, 
irretrievable scourge. Other good citizens made, 
packed and shipped the unselectively maiming de- 
vices. | wonder what those folks tell their kids 
they do for a living? Dark-tech tends to darken 
mind and spirit. 
Seemingly benign technologies may have equally 
undesirable consequences designed into them. Au- 
tomobiles were once hailed as freedom-bringing, 
egalitarian transport, and for their role in banishing 
dangerous urban diseases engendered by streets 
fouled with manure (horse exhaust). But car exhaust 
has turned out to be a leading cause of disease and 
environmental degradation in ways not easily fore- 
seen a hundred years ago. 
Some technologies inherently require a pact with the 
Devil. Auto collisions have killed and injured millions 
of people and animals; a price societies seem willing 
to pay. Some carnage is inevitable if people are to 
move about quickly and easily. (If cars had not been 
developed, millions of horses would probably be 
even more dangerous.) Some of the environmental 
damage is preventable by better car design (see pp. 
117 and 342). But what’s really needed is a redesign 
of the entire auto-based transport system, consider- 
ing every aspect. Many other technological systems 
need similar attention if they (and perhaps we) are 
to continue. 
Designers have not been educated or required to 
consider the effects of their decisions. Their clients 
are often investors or marketers rather than the 
actual users (much less Nature, who is always a client 
nevertheless). Until recently, designers and those 
who hired them had little concern for such matters 
as the fate of worn-out products, or the safety of the 
fabricating workers. Environmental problems be- 
longed to somebody else. It is now obvious that 
technology-caused problems belong to all of us. 
People acting as designers, and their masters, must 
think comprehensively if technology is to be em- 
ployed for the greatest good while doing little harm. 
To accomplish this, Buckminster Fuller called for a 
new discipline — Comprehensive Anticipatory Design 
Science. 
It’s still not formally taught. Ranging far 
beyond generalists who know a little bit about a lot 
of things, comprehensivists work to understand 
many specialties and the connections between them. 
A high standard of integrity is required. Demonstra- 
tions of comprehensive thought are scarce, but 
impressive. (The Rocky Mountain Institute [p. 117] 
is an inspiring example.) Since nobody can be entire- 
ly comprehensive, there’s obviously plenty left to 
do. Here’s some homework to get you started. —JB 
