re 
The 
SE 
Sustainability 
~ 
SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE 
The problers ff 
our Bieriaed and production of our food no longer. : 
Xclusively 
10. the 2 percent 
of the 
population we call 
as ome and ‘the whol ep lanet as our farm to be nurtured and 
cared for. And when we rejoin the food process we rejoin the 
environmental process as well: we begin to understand more 
precisely what part of our planet belongs to us for food, for fiber, 
and for fuel, and what part must be left sacred to nature. 
—WMichael Ableman, From the Good Earth: A Celebration of 
Growing Food Around the World 
USTAINABLE AGRICULTURE STARTS WITH A MOMENT OF HESITATION, 
the stop-time in the movement ofa piece of toast to the mouth, a space 
for words of grace. Thank the soil that nurtured the crop; the seeds 
that germinated; the water that sustained growth; the sun for its energy; the 
farmer and picker and quality grader and trucker for their toil; the factory 
hands for processing the grains and composing the bread; the retailer for 
ordering the right brands. Saying grace is paying homage to the props of our 
vitality. “To sustain” literally means to support from below. 
The contrast of sustainable and non-sustainable ag is clear. On one hand, the 
oversimplified monoculture of agbiz covers its fields with huge quantities of 
petroleum-based fertilizers, herbicides, and pesticides. Its machines tend to 
compact and disrupt the soil, increasing erosion on slopes. Its water is 
imported from deep groundwater or from rivers hundreds of miles away; the 
runoff is loaded with pollutants. On the other hand, the complex agroecology 
of organic farming minimizes chemical use. Manures, green cover crops, mixed 
crop/livestock rotations, and biological disease management and pest manage- 
ment nurture the soil’s tilth, prevent soil depletion, and keep the nutrient cycle 
closed to obviate off-site damage. Agbiz survives because of low labor use, high 
yields (not nutrition or good taste), vertical and lateral corporate integration, 
and price supports. Agbiz’s emblem is the duck with a twisted bill from 
selenium poisoning. Organic farming’s emblem is a superb-tasting tomato. 
The transition to sustainable ag has two paths: diversified farming and low- 
input farming. Many North American farmers are well down one or both of 
these paths. Diversified farming simply adds more kinds of crops, trees, 
livestock, rotations, and “green” market products. Low-input farming simply 
reduces energy, water, agrochemicals, plowing, and slope cultivation. Both 
lead to lower environmental impacts, lower price supports—and, at times, a 
small reduction in yields. But, as sustainability requires, the overall economic 
ecological cost balance improves. 
To join the practice of sustainable ag, you need not bea farmer. Are you tired 
of simulated tomatoes or chemical-loaded milk? Shop at farmers’ markets and 
fruit stands to support and influence your local good farmers. You can 
pressure the retailer, the health and safety labelers, and the farmers to improve 
food health. You can work with farm laborers, who suffer the most severely 
from ingesting agrochemicals, or become an expert in toxics and enter the 
regulatory health and safety administrations. You can join an environmental 
group concerned with the offsite impacts of ag erosion or toxics on down- 
stream peoples or in-stream fish. 
In the next pages, Richard Nilsen and Karen Van Epen have green-thumbed the 
best tools for sustainable ag. After weeding and pruning the mass of material, 
we harvest the same ol’ ancient advice: If you want a good tomato, find a spot 
near the window or a corner of the yard, and grow your own. Before you eat, 
say grace. —Peter Warshall 
As the photos from his book on pages 94 to 99 demonstrate, Michael Ableman is 
a widely traveled master photographer. As the quote preceding Peter Warshall’s 
introductory essay testifies, he is a poetic visionary. He is also an organic farmer 
whose fertile and productive land is now surrounded by suburbs. Who better to 
show us the traditional, industrial, and sustainable forms of agriculture, pointing 
out the new way to farm? —Karen Van Epen 
From the Good Earth: A Celebration of Growing Food Around the World: Michael Ableman, 
1993; 168 pp. ISBN 0-8109-2517-6. $27.50 ($30.50) postpaid from Harry N. Abrams, Inc., 
100 5th Ave., New York, NY 10011; 800/345-1359. 
Michael 
Ableman 
Agroecology 
The agricultural establishment has 
spent an inordinate amount of energy 
supporting the claim that alternative 
agriculture is old-fashioned and ineffi- 
cient. Miguel Altieri and company 
were the first ones to organize all the 
evidence, showing that a solid founda- 
tion does underpin the concepts of 
agroecology. 
An environmentally and socially sensi- 
tive approach, agroecology considers 
the ecological sustainability of the 
whole system, rather than the produc- 
tion of a specific crop. It recognizes 
that good farming involves manage- 
ment of many intricately intertwined 
resources—that there's more to it 
than just maximizing the yield of 
the 
target crop. 
To illustrate agroecological principles, 
the authors draw on examples from 
traditional Third World farmers and 
small farms in Europe and the US. 
They provide a simple synthesis of re- 
search on novel agroecosystems and 
an analysis of ecologically based 
farms. 
The 
Unsettling 
of z ped 
Cult ulawre 
AW 
vendell 
Berry 
The Unsettling of America 
(Culture & Agriculture) 
Wendell Berry. Sierra Club Books, 1986; 
228 pp. ISBN 0-87156-772-5 
$9 ($12 postpaid) from Sierra Club Store 
Orders, 730 Polk Street, San Francisco, 
CA 94109; 800/935-1056 
Our land is more undone by our agri- 
culture than by any other mischief. 
Farmer/poet/essayist Wendell Berry 
speaks to the matter with plain 
speech — it rasps the brain, leaves 
memory of the thought. Don't say it is 
no longer possible to do our farming 
right. Berry is. —Stewart Brand 
e 
We need wilderness as a standard of civili- 
zation and as a cultural model. Only by pre- 
serving areas where nature’s processes are 
undisturbed can we preserve an accurate 
sense of the impact of civilization upon its 
natural sources. Only if we know how the 
land was can we tell how it is. 
The Unsettling of America 
Agroecology 
(The Scientific Basis of 
Alternative Agriculture) 
Miguel A. Altieri, Editor 1987; 227 pp. 
ISBN 0-8133-7284-4 
$39 ($43 postpaid) from Westview Press, 
5500 Central Avenue, Boulder, CO 80301; 
303/444-3541 
Not just another dry scientific treatise, 
this seminal work speaks in an elegant 
tone that lifts science to the level of 
philosophy. —Karen Van Epen 
e 
One of the major reasons that farmers 
throughout the world choose to use 
polycultures is that frequently more yield 
can be harvested from a given area sown 
in polyculture than from an equivalent area 
sown in separate patches of monocultures. 
This increased land-use efficiency is impor- 
tant in areas of the world where farms are 
small because of socioeconomic conditions 
and where crop production is limited to 
the amount of land that can be cleared, 
prepared and weeded (usually by hand) 
ina limited amount of time. 
Family Farming 
The best analysis I've seen of Ameri- 
can agriculture — clearheaded, infor- 
mative, practical, and well written. This 
honest book acknowledges the mis- 
takes and shortcomings of family 
farms, while arguing for their preserva- 
tion. Those interested in sustainable 
agriculture will find this a plausible 
view of how we get from here to there. 
—David Orr 
e 
Public policy should make ownership the 
just reward of good land use, and good land 
use the obligation of owners. 
> 
» , 
: 
Family Farming 
(A New Economic Vision) 
Marty Strange. Bison Books, 1989; 311 pp. 
ISBN 0-8032-9194-9 
$7.50 ($9.50 postpaid) from Institute for 
Food and Development Policy, 398 60th 
Street, Oakland, CA 94618; 800/888-3314 
Ortner Great Resources 
Seed to Civilization: The Story of Food: by 
Charles B. Heiser, revised 1990. Harvard U. 
Press, 228 pp, softcover. An eminent ethnobota- 
nist regales us with facts and anecdotes about 
how humans have produced and eaten food 
since prehistoric times. 
From the Ground Up: Rethinking Indus- 
trial Agriculture: by Goering et al, 1993. 
ISEC, 120 pp, softcover. A pointed critique of 
modern agriculture, this advocates decentraliza- 
tion and reconsideration of traditional ag 
practices. 
Food for the Future:Conditions and 
Contradictions of Sustainability Patricia 
Allen, Editor. John Wiley & Sons, 1993; 
328 pp, softcover 
