Saving the Neighborhood 
Slingshot ammo for battles against 
Goliath developers. Slow-growth advo- 
cate Peggy Robin understands all sides 
of the development issues and the 
many variations of politics, conflicts, 
and negotiations. She describes each 
possible step in the process — from 
community organizing to the Planning 
Commission hearings — and offers 
options and winning strategies culled 
from case studies, —Mike Ashenfelder 
e 
Even if your city’s planning/zoning employ- 
ees are patient and willing to explain the 
system, however, you may want to seek in- 
formation first from the office of your local 
elected official. If development has ever 
been an issue before in your district, you 
will undoubtedly find your representative 
and/or the staff people well-versed about 
the system’s rules and procedures. As you 
are a constituent and a voter, you should 
find your questions more courteously re- 
ceived and more speedily answered than if 
you brought them directly to the civil ser- 
vants of the agency involved. You might 
also find it a plus to have this additional 
contact with the staff or the politician who 
serves your electoral district. Later, when 
you come back seeking support for your 
neighborhood's position, you'll be a familiar 
name, and your concern about the develop- 
ment will have been noted early on. 
e 
Now you've figured out who besides your- 
self is interested in the problem; you've 
perhaps even talked to the developer or to 
city officials to find out how fast the plans 
are moving and how much time you have 
to react. Whether the development is 
going fast or slow, you should take the 
same next step: You must call a meeting. 
It will — unfortunately — be the first of 
many meetings you can expect to attend if 
you're going to be a player in this field. But 
with a little forethought and a few easily 
learned management tips, you will be able 
to hold the length and the number of your 
meetings to a bare minimum. Some groups 
exhaust themselves meeting endlessly and 
pointlessly into the night, and that’s a fate 
you'll want to work hard to avoid! 
Each meeting should have a stated pur- 
pose, a written but brief agenda, a desig- 
nated person to run it (not necessarily 
given the formal title of “chairman” but at 
least understood to be in charge of the 
flow of discussion), a set time limit (say, 
two hours) and, by the end of the meeting, 
a common understanding of what each 
participant is supposed to do next. 
If you start out your first meeting under 
these terms, you'll find 
an te 
: 
GHBORHOOD a 
-< and Win! 
You Can Fight Devalopors aed 
Wh 
Saving the Neighborhood 
(You Can Fight Developers and Win!) 
Peggy Robin. 1990; 428 pp. 
ISBN 0-933149-33-6 
$16.95 ($20.95 postpaid) from Preservation 
Press, 1785 Massachusetts Avenue NW, 
Washington, DC 20036; 800/766-6847 
In the case of the Guggenheim, a spiral, 
bowl-shaped building, the new addition was 
to rise like a tall block behind it, causing at 
least one architecture critic to scoff that it 
looked like the tank to a giant toilet bowl. 
A redesign has since been commissioned. 
of day for acts of civil disobedience? The 
morning rush hour has many advantages. It 
will be easy to draw a crowd of spectators. 
You can call for cars to honk their support 
as they drive by. Print journalists will have 
time to go into the office and write up the 
story before the deadline for the next day's 
early edition. Camera crews will be able to 
have the film in to the editing room, ready 
to show on the 6 o'clock news, with maybe 
a smaller snippet repeated at the || o'clock 
as well. 
What day of the week? Find out if there 
is any day that your daily paper likes to 
focus in on different sections of the metro- 
politan area — for example, on Thursdays 
the Washington Post runs a special section 
with various neighborhood reports. When 
calling for coverage, | spoke to reporters 
who work specifically for that section, and 
worked out the timing of the civil disobedi- 
ence around their assignment schedules. . 
. 
. 
Whether few or many, the people need 
to be well-briefed and to come prepared. 
They should wear comfortable shoes (pref- 
erably ones without laces, which in some 
all subsequent meetings 
that much easier to 
handle. But start off 
with sloppy meeting 
procedures — no per- 
son in charge, every- 
body talking at once, no 
agenda, no time limit — 
and you'll waste hours, 
days, weeks of your life 
re-explaining things, ar- 
guing, trying to figure 
out who was supposed 
to do what — and gen- 
erally going in circles. 
e 
When is the best time 
Political Tools 
GRASSROOTS ORGANIZING 
f you want to get a lot of people together to do something, first you have 
to get a lot of people together. That's called “community.” Please refer to 
the Community section (pp. 121-145) for prerequisite material on the 
| principles of organizing, decisionmaking stratagems, and tools for creating 
consensus. —James Donnelly 
Organizing: A Guide for Grassroots Leaders 
| have acquired* serious doubts about 
the effectiveness of 
voting as a pro- 
cess of social change — if voting 
changed anything, it would be illegal. 
But | do believe that the way to over- 
| come the abuse built into the global 
economic system is through demo- 
cratic participation of workers in all 
levels of industrial decisionmaking, and 
that the most direct route to that so- 
cial condition is through the building of 
grassroots organizations of all kinds. 
All power to the people. 
Si Kahn's book is an operating and 
maintenance manual for the small en- 
gines of modem society — small 
groups of humans organized around 
specific issues and trying to change 
things collectively. In this process, some 
assembly is required, and Mr. Kahn's 
handbook guides the reader from the 
pile of parts on the workbench to the 
chugging little powerplants in clear 
and simple language, with a minimum 
of mumbo jumbo and a good supply 
of troubleshooting hints. 
This revised edition is best used as a 
field guide to organizing techniques 
rather than a front-to-back primer in 
community involvement. If you think 
you want to try your hand at getting 
folks together around some issue, read 
the Afterword — it contains a good 
moral pattern for any prospective or- 
ganizer of human beings. —JD Smith 
* .. having been one of those northem, liberal, 
Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, 
outside agitators who invaded the Sovereign 
State of Mississippi in the summer of | 964 
And also having been a member of a Trotskyist 
wish tank. 
e 
Involving people's organizations in electoral 
politics isn’t easy. There are dangers. There 
can be a tendency to put too much value 
on politics, to put a lot of the organization’s 
resources into getting people elected and 
much less into building and maintaining 
the organization. 
Many people’s organizations find the coali- 
tion style of electoral politics difficult. In an 
electoral campaign there are usually two 
parties and two candidates. Other institu- 
tions and interest groups in the community 
split between these two camps. A people's 
organization may find itself in an electoral 
coalition with many groups that it finds dif- 
ficult to deal with. 
e 
Let's say your neighborhood organization 
endorses a candidate for the city council on 
the basis of the commitments that candi- 
date has made to the organization. If the 
election returns show that the people in 
your neighborhood split their vote evenly, 
then politicians will not take your group's 
endorsement seriously the next time. 
This means that electoral politics in a 
people’s organization must be handled 
carefully. If a 
decision to endorse a candi- 
date is made by the leaders of the organiza- 
tion but the members do not share in that 
decision, then it’s very likely that those 
members will not back the candidate the 
organization endorsed. Before becoming 
invloved in this type of electoral politics an 
organization has to make a careful evalua- 
tion to see whether it can actually deliver 
votes to the candidates it endorses. 
Organizing 
(A Guide for Grassroots Leaders) 
Si Kahn. 1991; 343 pp. ISBN 0-87101-197-2 
$25.95 ($28.95 postpaid) from NASW 
Press, PO Box 431, Annapolis Junction, 
MD 20701; 800/227-3590 
jails are confiscated during detention) and 
clothing that they don’t mind getting dirty 
(bulldozers can kick up a lot of dust). What 
not to wear: jewelry and belts 
(since these will almost certainly 
be taken away before you are put 
in a cell). In case bail is required, 
bring about $100 in cash, and 
have the phone number of a law- 
yer to call in case there is some 
complication about your release 
before trial. It’s a good idea to 
eat a big breakfast. You might not 
arrive at the lock-up in time for 
lunch, or if you do, you might 
take one look at it and decide not 
to touch it. And clear your calen- 
dar for the whole day; even if 
you're arrested at 8 a.m., you 
still might not be out until 
late in the afternoon. 
