x——oe—eeee 
ee 
eee 
eee 
342 
Nomadics 
AUTOMOBILES 
quirrel-squashing, land-eating, people-mauling, omnipolluting cars are 
taking over the planet! Let’s get rid of ‘em this very day! Starting with 
yours, though — | happen to need mine. It takes me, family, friends, and 
stuff from where we are to where we need to go, on the route and schedule 
of our choice, with privacy and reasonable protection from weather and thug. 
Except for taxis, no public transportation even approaches such convenience. 
History shows that for the past century or so, most people in most societies 
have been willing to pay the private auto’s price, if notits cost. The true societal 
and environmental costs of auto use are becoming obvious, and the bill is past 
due. But what can be done in a society deliberately built to require cars? 
First and most important: reduce the need for driving. Since 1980, the total 
number of cars, the number of cars per capita, and the annual miles driven per 
car have all risen at a much faster rate than the rise in population. That’s why 
smog persists despite a 90 percent improvement in individual auto emissions. 
Most of the increase in driving 
is forced by poor land use 
planning and zoning laws, not 
by people driving around just 
for the hell of it. 
Change for the better is 
largely a matter of imagina- 
tion, resolve, and politics. 
Malls combine with individual 
homes (however charming 
and bucolic) to make traffic 
congestion inevitable; the av- 
erage car is used six times 
a day. Discourage fripperous 
motoring, especially by fuel- 
hungry poseur pickups and 
never-used-off-road 
4x4 
models. 
Vote 
against 
sprawlmaking, auto-insistent 
policies 
and 
politicians. 
an 
Drive less. 
eae 
Ra 
er tae 
At the same time, the cars 
themselves 
can 
be made 
cleaner, safer, lighter, and 
more easily recycled. Accord- 
ing to a respected analysis by 
Amory Lovins, it is possible 
right now, using existing tech- 
nology, to produce a roomy 
four-passenger “supercar” 
that is sporty, much safer than 
present models, and that can 
be driven coast to coast at normal speeds using less than 30 gallons of fuel. 
There is potential for much higher efficiency. The Mercedes shown is a step 
toward the Supercar. Other makers will soon offer machines of similar ilk.* 
Assuming you actually need a car, what kind should it be? Cheapest is an oldie 
in good shape. Miles-per-dollar is more important than miles-per-gallon. Size 
doesn’t matter much since fuel costs are only 16 percent of total auto 
expenditures. Your conscience need not be completely besmirched — older 
models are more polluting to run, but driving one till it drops avoids the 
resource depletion and pollution of making a new one. 
If a new one is what you need, and a small one will do, the Honda Civic 
hatchback is hard to beat. It’s not the top mileage champ, but in the USA it’s 
probably the best small car overall. For most uses, | recommend the popular 
DX model over the super-efficient VX, which requires unfamiliar driving 
technique to squeeze just a few more miles from each gallon when conditions 
are ideal. If the Civic is too small, then your choice widens to the point where 
no firm suggestion can be made. Competent models are available to fill most 
any requirement except simplicity. 
Note that the best-selling vehicle in the world is the full-size Ford F-series 
pickup. Studies have shown that most pickups are used as image-enhancing 
cars, not as load-carriers. Their popular 4x4 Sport-Utility cousins, 95 percent 
of whom will never be used off pavement, share similar environmental 
despicability. (Ironically and dishonestly, their advertising often shows them as 
a means of enjoying nature rather than as a principal despoiler.) If you really 
need 4x4 traction, there are less aggressive choices such as a Subaru wagon. 
Insist on antilock brakes and dual airbags (and side airbags, when they become 
available) on any vehicle. Sun-reflecting white is the color of choice; you won't 
run the fuel-hungry air conditioner as much, and may not need AC at all. 
What about electrics and other ecocars? At this writing, you cannot buy an 
electric vehicle that can perform all the tasks customarily asked of a 
family car. 
Kits that convert gasoline vehicles to electric are compromises at best, and 
are unlikely to have been crash tested. (I’ve seen homebuilts that are 
62 miles per gallon of diesel. Electric and gasoline versions are also planned, and a hybrid fuel-electric model is a 
possibility. Typical Mercedes competence and crash safety are claimed. “About $20,000.” 
just plain dangerous.) A few purpose-built electrics meet government safety 
standards, but most don’t. In any case, the tiny ones are eminently squashable. 
(Eco-righteousness is not armor.) All have problems involving lack of interior 
room, 
little supporting infrastructure (such as experienced mechanics), 
drastically reduced cold-weather range (especially with heater and headlights 
in use), sluggy performance, and expensive battery replacement. So far, 
improving this situation has proved to be an elusive goal, though there is no 
shortage of electric-vehicle hype. 
What about alternative fuels? You can buy a Ford Taurus that runs well on 
alcohol-gasoline mixtures, but in this country, most alcohol comes from 
natural gas or corn. Traditional corn-raising techniques result in unacceptable 
soil depletion — already a disaster in progress. It is possible to convert a car 
to run directly on compressed natural gas (CNG), eliminating the need to 
convert gas to alcohol, but adding a bulky CNG tank to the car. (United Parcel 
Service is trying out some 
CNG trucks with the tank 
shoehorned 
into normally 
wasted space.) CNG ve- 
hicles need a special refuel- 
ing facility; a delivery service 
can install one at the mother 
terminal. I’d guess that CNG 
will be the interim alterna- 
tive fuel for fleet use until 
hydrogen inevitably takes its 
place as the next century’s 
preferred vehicle fuel. 
That’s frustrating news for 
someone who wants 
an 
ecocar right now. But if you 
can wait for another three 
or four years, and all goes as 
planned and rumored, there 
will be interesting choices 
for the first time. While 
waiting, you might work on 
ways to reshape your life so 
you won't need the thing. 
—J. Baldwin 
In a commendable burst of leadership, Mercedes has announced that they will definitely produce a car much like this 
four-seater Vision A93 concept vehicle before the decade is done. Smaller and lighter than a VW bug, but as roomy 
inside as a big car (with rear seats folded, several mountain bikes can be carried upright), this clever machine averages 
* Amory’s startling “Supercars” 
paper is available from the Rocky 
Mountain Institute (p. | 17). 
Urban Transit 
Ah. Nothing is so edifying as a bit 
of heresy. The author even advocates 
the use of private cars instead of mass 
transit! (Under appropriate circum- 
stances, of course.) His willingness to 
be politically incorrect both to the 
eco-chic and to officialdom adds to 
his credibility — important if his bristly 
ideas are to be taken seriously by a 
public that has been misinformed for 
years by emotional anti-auto ranting. 
aster. (Note: Since Urban Transit was 
written, computer technology has made 
an efficiently dispatched jitney service 
even more feasible.) 
Professor Lave makes his points neatly 
and answers his critics with logic, ex- 
ample and humor, the book is sur- 
prisingly easy to read. Citizens’ groups 
and city managers need to read this: 
the answers here could be imple- 
mented right now. —J. Baldwin 
The book's main point is that years 
of government management of 
public 
transport systems and policy has re- 
sulted in drastic inefficiency that would 
be best reduced by privatization. For 
example, legalizing jitneys would give 
a system with the flexible schedule 
and routing necessary to serve areas 
with low population density — service 
° 
that almost always bankrupts the usual 
Artifically low fares resulted from two goals: 
municipal transit authority. Vehicles 
first, to lure commuters out of their cars 
can be added or subtracted as condi- 
— which oo 
not work because jie ie 
comes made commuters more sensitive 
to 
tions change, regulated automatically 
transit quality than to transit cost; second, 
by market demand. An expensive, 
to provide low cost transportation for the 
interruption-prone mass transport sys- 
poor — though it would have been far less 
tem is thus made obsolete. Where this 
_gstly to subsidize them directly, rather 
has been tried, it works fine despite 
than erecting a low-fare structure used by 
noisy bureaucratic predictions of dis- 
e 
The most transit-dependent city in the 
United States, New York, now allows pri- 
vate firms to operate express bus services. 
These firms not only provide a higher qual- 
ity of service than the city-operated ve- 
hicles, but do so at a profit, and without 
government subsidy. 
rich and poor alike. 
