CITIZEN ENCRYPTION 
“When privacy is outlawed,” says software author Phil Zimmermann, “only outlaws 
will have privacy.” He is addressing the issue which has become the flash point of 
technoculture: citizen encryption. “Encryption” is still esoteric technology to most 
people, but it might turn out to be the militia rifle of the privacy wars. As a result of a 
brilliant breakthrough by non-spookish hackers and mathematicians, cryptography 
has suddenly emerged as a people’s technology, liberated from the top-secret vaults of 
diplomacy and military tactics. And not a moment too soon — the information age has 
rendered our communications vulnerable to eavesdroppers (official and otherwise), 
and allowed megabytes of our personal data to accumulate in databases we don’t con- 
trol. But if we encrypt, snoopers can’t get at the stuff. Crypto is the silver bullet to pro- 
tect our conversations and safeguard the details of our lives; it’s the means by which 
we can take back our privacy from Big Brother and his countless cousins. 
Today, encryption can be used to protect the privacy of voice communications and 
electronic mail. The digital trails so many of us leave when we use credit cards, ATM 
cards, and smart cards are another area of vulnerability: most people don’t realize 
that paying for bar-scanned groceries with a credit card creates a database linking in- 
formation about how many bottles of liquor, which magazines, what kind of food 
you purchase to other information such as your name, address, Social Security num- 
ber, credit status. This information is valuable to marketers and to political groups 
collecting information about friends and enemies. Citizen encryption would make 
“anonymous digital cash” possible — giving us the convenience of electronic trans- 
actions without the side effects of malevolent snooping. 
The catch? Uncle Sam doesn’t like it. Spy institutions and law enforcement agencies 
have nightmares about “crypto anarchy,” when access to strong encryption ensures 
that they can’t snoop our communications. So the government has been fighting to 
suppress strong crypto. The first shot in this conflict came in the spring of 1994, when 
the Clinton Administration began urging a compromise known as the “Clipper 
Chip” —a 
scheme that supposedly provides a degree of protection but includes a 
“back door” that provides the government the keys to unscramble the messages and 
conversations. Two main groups oppose Clipper: manufacturers unable to offer cus- 
tomers state-of-the-art protection and privacy advocates who see the scheme as an 
attempt to limit the ability of citizens to 
speak to each other without the specter 
of a third party’s unwelcome ear. Anda 
third group of crypto civil disobedients 
— cypherpunks — have devoted them- 
selves to spreading strong protection 
tools throughout the infosphere — so 
that even an outright government ban on 
strong crypto would be too little, too late. 
The outcome of the crypto wars will de- 
termine whether civil rights will sur- 
vive cyberspace. While crypto technol- 
ogy is arcane, its uses could influence 
every part of our lives. 
EXPLANATION OF 
PUBLIC KEY <RYPTO 
The breakthrough that enabled crypto 
to spread to the masses is “public key” 
cryptography, invented by Whitfield 
Diffie and Martin Hellman in the mid- 
1970s. Its main implementation, de- 
vised by three MIT cryptographers, is a 
patented system called RSA. 
Conventional crypto systems begin 
with a “plaintext” message that the 
sender scrambles by use of a “key” into 
an unintelligible “ciphertext” and then 
passes it on. The recipient translates this 
jumble back into plaintext by use of the 
same key. The problem is that it’s diffi- 
cult to get the key from the user to the 
sender, and protect it thereafter. 
Public key cryptography solves the 
problem by using a matched set of two 
keys —a 
“private” key and a “public” 
key. The private key is known only to 
the holder, but the public key can be 
widely distributed without compromis- 
ing security. Having someone’s public 
key gives you no advantage in trying to 
crack their codes — you need both to 
unscramble a message. 
by Steven Levy 
Community 
PRIVACY 
Applied Cryptography 
Budding cypherpunks and others sim- 
ply interested in the nuts and bolts of 
crypto should check out this book that 
has become the bible of code hackers. 
Though directed to those who know 
their way around an algorithm, the 
book also gives a more casual user an 
eye-popping initiation into the gestalt 
of industrial-strength crypto. 
Bruce Schneier doesn't hesitate to in- 
ject pithy opinions and political content 
into the mix, either, straight away he 
states: “Encryption is too important to 
be left to the government.” Then he 
provides the most comprehensive citi 
zen’s view yet on how to do it yourself. 
Applied Cryptography includes source 
code for some popular encryption 
schemes, including some regarded too 
powerful to export. In other words, if 
you type into your computer some of 
the codes Schneier includes here, your 
hard disk immediately becomes, in the 
govemment's view, a form of muni- 
tions — and, in theory at least, you 
can get jailed for carting your laptop 
across a border! What better lesson 
that crypto in the hands of 
the people 
is powerful stuff — and impossible 
to contro], —SL 
Crypto Software for the People 
The crypto revolution has hit freeware. 
The most popular program is Phil 
Zimmermann’'s PGP — short for 
“pretty good privacy.” As its name im- 
plies, PGP offers a strong measure of 
security for communications sent over 
the Net, as well as a wonderful hands- 
on education on the workings of pub- 
lic-key software. This public-key pro- 
gram is the software of choice of 
cypherpunks worldwide, much to the 
chagrin of the US government; the 
feds have registered their alarm at its 
ability to pass beyond our borders. 
PGP is, in a sense, outlaw-ware: RSA 
Data Security, Inc., owner of the pub- 
lic-key copyrights, charges that PGP in- 
fringes upon its intellectual property. 
Despite this, it is possibly the most 
widely used public-key crypto system 
in the world. 
Unlike PGP, Mark Riorden’s public-key 
program RIPEM is officially licensed by 
RSA. As long as you don’t use it for 
commerical purposes, you can use it 
for free. Both PGP and RIPEM are 
available in Mac and DOS versions; 
however, RIPEM is not as fully imple- 
mented as PGP, though Riorden con- 
tinues to update it. 
If you want public-key software for 
commercial purposes, you should go to 
| 
the source — RSA Data Security. If 
you simply want to protect the infor- 
mation on your hard disk, you don’t 
need public-key crypto: dozens of pro- 
grams use faster systems based on 
other algorithms. Bruce Schneier rec- 
ommends the Kent-Marsh programs 
for both the Mac and DOS. —SL 
RSA Data Security Inc.: 10 Dolphin 
Drive, Redwood City, CA 94065 
PGP (Phillip Zimmermann): The download 
sites change; consult the usenet newsgroup 
altsecurity.pgp and ask which sites currently 
provide software. 
RIPEM (Marc Riorden) via ftp from 
ripem.msu.edu. 
If | 
want to send a private message to 
Howard Rheingold, I first get his public 
key (this may be widely available) and 
use it to scramble the message into 
ciphertext. From that point on, the only 
person in the world who can un- 
scramble that message is the one hold- 
ing the matching private key — 
Rheingold. When Howard sends a mes- 
sage back to me, he'll use my public key 
to scramble the message, knowing that I 
am the only one who will read it. This 
allows people to communicate privately 
with many others, even those they have 
never met. 
The Codebreakers: David Kahn. 1967, 
Macmillan. The seminal work on the history of 
(pre-public-key) crypto, as thrilling as a spy novel 
and as challenging as a cryptogram. 
Ender’s Game: Orson Scott Card. 1985, Tor 
Books. This stunning sci-fi novel is a cypherpunk 
favorite because of its imaginative yet realistic 
use of crypto scenarios. 
See also: Electronic 
Democracy, p.288 and 
“Citizen Organizations on 
the Electronic Frontier,” p.291 
Applied Cryptography 
Bruce Schneier. 1994; 618 pp. 
ISBN 0-47 1-59756-2 
$44.95 postpaid. John Wiley & Sons Inc., 
| Wiley Drive, Somerset, NJ 08873; 
800/USWILEY 
e 
Dictionary Attacks and Salt 
Even a file of passwords encrypted with a 
one-way function is vulnerable. In his spare 
time, Mallet compiles a list of the 100,000 
most common passwords. He operates on 
all 100,000 of them with the one-way func- 
tion and stores the results. If each pass- 
word has about eight bytes, the resulting 
file will be no more than 800K; it will fit on 
a single floppy disk. Now, Mallet steals the 
encrypted password file. He compares the 
encrypted password with his file of en- 
crypted possible passwords and sees what 
matches. 
This is a dictionary attack, and it’s sur- 
prisingly successful. Salt is a way to make it 
more difficult. 
Salt is a random string that is concatenated 
with the password before being operated 
on by the one-way function. Then, both 
the salt value and the result of the one-way 
function are stored in the database. If the 
number of possible salt values is large 
enough, this practically eliminates a 
dictionary attack against commonly used 
passwords. 
A lot of salt is needed. Most UNIX systems 
use only twelve bits of salt. Even with that, 
Daniel Klein developed a password-guess- 
ing program that cracks 21% of the pass- 
words on a given system in about a week 
[482]. David Feldmeier and Philip Karn 
compiled a list of about 732,000 common 
passwords concatenated with each of 4096 
possible salt values. They estimate that 30% 
of passwords on a given system can be bro- 
ken with this list [346]. 
Salt isn’t a panacea; increasing the number 
of salt bits won’t solve everything. Salt only 
protects against general dictionary attacks 
on a password file, not against a concerted 
attack on a single password. It obscures 
people who have the same password on 
multiple machines, but doesn’t make poorly 
chosen passwords any better. 
137 
