Livelihood 
MANAGING & MARKETING 317 
Post-Capitalist Society * The Effective Executive 
Drucker is to management what Fuller 
was to design and Bateson was to 
ecological thought: a major thinker 
who uses the command of one disci- 
pline to illuminate the whole range of 
human social relationships. 
His 1992 Post-Capitalist Society is a 
compelling vision of the current state 
of our wicked, beneficent, world-span- 
ning free-market economy, and where 
it is likely to go in our lifetimes. 
—WMichael Gruber 
Many of Drucker's books are classics. 
Thirty years ago, The Effective Execu- 
tive set forth the principles that make 
people in a huge organization or a 
nonprofit or a commune accomplish 
what they want to accomplish. That 
book still serves as a primer for people 
entering the world of work; and if your 
organization or business has a lot of 
people who don't follow Drucker's pre- 
cepts, you may be in serious trouble. 
—Art Kleiner 
e 
If we have learned one thing, it is that gov- 
ernment cannot manage the economic 
“weather.” Government cannot effectively 
prevent or overcome short-term economic 
fluctuations such as a recession. No one 
before 1929 expected government to be 
able to manage the economic weather. 
Since then, every government in every 
country has promised to be able to deliver 
on such a promise. Political leaders will 
have to learn to tell their constituents: “No 
one knows how to manage the economy 
short term any more than the physician 
knows how to cure the common cold. 
We'd better keep our hands off it.” A cor- 
ollary to this, however, is that the govern- 
Millennial Advertising Schemes 
The traditional industnal-age approach 
to getting customers — a big budget, 
foaming-at-the-mouth advertising, direct 
mail, and high-pressure wholesaling — 
doesn't work so well. (It never did for 
small business.) More and more books 
are appeaning that reposition “selling” 
and “marketing” in terms of 
building better 
relationships with individual customers — 
respectful relationships, in which both sides 
respond to each other. Here are the three 
we like best. 
Marketing Without Advertising has the 
small, local, creative business person in 
mind. Your marketing task is not persuad- 
ing customers, but educating them — and 
living up to the honesty and creativity that 
the role of educator demands. 
Guerrilla Marketing offers creative, inex- 
pensive promotion ideas — signs, tele- 
phone canvassing, trade shows, newspaper 
publicity, and so on. Jay Levinson's tech- 
niques are a bit opportunistic for my taste 
(as you might expect from a man whose 
four follow-up sequels include Guerrilla 
Marketing Attack and Guerrilla Marketing 
Weapons), but they do get attention. 
The One to One Future offers a glimpse of 
how marketing will evolve in the next thirty 
years — away from mass consumerism, 
toward individual relationships with cus- 
tomers in which even the largest compa- 
nies leam and respond fluidly. (Computers 
will keep track of the information, and co- 
ordinate the varied, individualized provision 
ment does need to regain the ability to 
avoid major depressions. ... The one effec- 
tive way to counteract a depression—that 
is, a prolonged period of structural 
change—is through investment in the infra- 
structure; and after prolonged boom peri- 
ods, the infrastructure (roads, bridges, har- 
bors, public buildings, public lands) is always 
in bad repair. For governments to be able 
to finance such investments requires that 
they operate with a balanced budget during 
good times—and during recessions as well. 
They will then have the ability to raise 
money, especially through borrowing, when 
there is need to do so. In other words, 
governments have to learn again to keep 
deficits as the weapon of last resort. 
e 
The “super-rich” of the old capitalism were 
the nineteenth-century steel barons. The 
“super-rich” of the post-World War II 
boom are the computer makers, software 
makers, producers of television shows, and 
Ross Perot, the builder of a business install- 
ing and running information systems. Such 
great fortunes as were made in retailing — 
those of Sam Walton of Wal-Mart in the 
United States, Masatoshi Ito of Ito-Yokado 
in Japan, or the Sainsbury brothers in the 
United Kingdom — were made by reorga- 
nizing this old business around information. 
In fact, whichever traditional industries 
managed to grow during the past forty 
years did so because they restructured 
themselves around knowledge and informa- 
tion. The integrated steel mill is becoming 
obsolete; even in low-wage countries, as 
we have seen, it cannot compete against 
the minimill. But a minimill is simply a 
steelmaker organized around information 
rather than around heat. 
It is no longer possible to make huge prof- 
its on doing and moving things. It is no 
Fifective 
Frecutive 
Post-Capitalist Society 
Peter F. Drucker. HarperBusiness, 1993; 
232 pp. ISBN 0-88730-661-6 
$13 ($15.75 postpaid). 
The Effective Executive 
Peter F. Drucker. HarperBusiness, 1966, 
1993; 178 pp. ISBN 0-88730-612-8 
$12 ($14.75 postpaid). 
Both from HarperCollins Publishers/Direct 
Mail, PO Box 588, Dunmore, PA 18512; 
800/331-3761 
longer even possible to make huge profits 
by controlling money. 
—Post-Capitalist Society 
e 
Individual self-development in large mea- 
sure depends on a focus on contributions. 
The man who asks of himself, “What is the 
most important contribution | can make to 
the performance of this organization,” asks 
in effect, “What self-development do | 
need? What knowledge and skill do | have 
to acquire to make the contribution | 
should be making? What strengths to | have 
to put to work? What standards do | have 
to set myself?” —The Effective Executive 
NOPE, BUT THE AD GUY SAID 
IF | APDED COLOR, MADE IT 
| 
BIGGER AND AIRBRYSHEDA 
TWINKLE IN HER EYES, 1'D 
SELL Voor coy? 
of products and services.) If you use elec- 
tronic networks or have begun to think 
about targeting your customers with the 
help of a computer, you will find this book 
immensely valuable. —AK 
e 
It is an excellent practice for businesses to 
print maps in the Yellow Pages as well as 
on any flyers or brochures. If you are hard 
to find, or if you draw customers from 
out of town, it behooves you to do this. 
—Marketing Without Advertising 
e 
Because 61 percent of Americans read 
magazines from the back to the front, 
your economical classified ad will have a 
decent shot at being read. 
As you may have heard, it doesn’t cost an 
arm and a leg to run a classified ad. And 
you'll usually be offered a frequency dis- 
count. That means that if your five-line 
classified ad costs you $20 to run one 
time, it will only cost, say $18 per inser- 
tion if you run it three times, and only $15 
per insertion if you run it five times. The 
more frequently you run it, the lower 
your cost per insertion. 
—Guerrilla Marketing 
e 
Last year a friend of ours on the East 
Coast called a local, independent florist in 
a small midwestern city where his mother 
lived, to have flowers sent to her on her 
birthday. Three weeks before her birthday 
—Marketing 
Without 
Advertising 
this year, he received a postcard from the 
same florist, reminding him (1) that his 
mother’s birthday was coming up, (2) that 
he had sent spider lilies and freesias last 
year for a certain price, and (3) a phone call 
to the specified number would put another 
beautiful bouquet on his mother’s doorstep 
on her birthday this year. 
This small, independent florist is working 
hard to improve her share of her custom- 
ers’ business. —The One to One Future 
Marketing Without Advertising 
(Creative Strategies for Small Busi- 
ness Success). Michael Phillips & Salli 
Rasberry. 1986; 200 pp. 
ISBN 0-87337-019-8 $14 ($18 postpaid). 
Nolo Press, 950 Parker Street, Berkeley, 
CA 94710; 800/992-6656, 510/549-1976 
Guerrilla Marketing (Secrets for 
Making Big Profits from Your Small 
Business). Jay Conrad Levinson. 1993; 327 
pp. ISBN 0-395-64496-8 $11.95 ($14.45 
postpaid). Houghton Mifflin Co./Mail Order 
Dept., Wayside Road, Burlington, MA 
01803; 800/225-3362 
The One to One Future (Building Re- 
lationships One Customer at a Time). 
Don Peppers & Martha Rogers. Doubleday 
Currency, 1993; 443 pp. 
ISBN 0-385-42528-7 $22 ($24.50 postpaid). 
Bantam, Doubleday, Dell/Fulfillment Dept., 
2451 S. Wolf Road, Des Plaines, IL 60018; 
800/223-6834 
From the jungles of the mainstream 
entertainment industry comes a star- 
| tlingly unassuming, straightforward 
book (by Hollywood standards) on 
how to promote your business, your- 
self, or your cause. —AK 
| If you see an editorial that in some way re- 
lates to your project, consider contacting 
the station to respond. Editorial replies 
provide an opportunity to have your face 
and name broadcast across the city and fur- 
ther solidify your expert standing. To make 
this happen, contact the news department 
at the station and ask for the editorial di- 
rector. Tell him or her you represent citi- 
zens with an opposing view and you'd like 
to reply. Send information on yourself and 
your project, such as your press kit. 
If they give you the green light, you'll be in- 
formed of the parameters. You'll probably 
have sixty seconds to make your point. 
When writing your reply, think in bursts of 
quick three-sentence paragraphs, with your 
opening comments being the most potent. 
Begin by summarizing the station's view and 
stating why they're dead wrong. Detail a 
handful of reasons, again expressed in short 
| easy-to-understand phrases. Close by urg- 
ing a different direction, chiding the station 
for taking its position. That's it! You're a 
politician now! 
| 
| Guerrilla P.R. 
Michael Levine. HarperBusiness, 1993; 
| 
| 229 pp. ISBN 0-88730-664-0 
$10 ($12.75 postpaid). HarperCollins Pub- 
lishers/Direct Mail, PO Box 588, Dunmore, 
PA 18512; 800/331-3761 
| Guerrilla PR. 
| 
