An End to Hunger? 
The most thoughtful, in- 
formative, wide-ranging, 
complex and realistic 
book on hunger and its 
causes. Nourished by 
experience (Solon 
Barraclough worked on 
land tenure, hunger, ag- 
riculture and economics 
with the UN for twenty 
years), there are no 
graphs or models. Just 
the human computer, a 
bit baffled and a bit 
saddened, groping for a 
socio-political toolkit 
that will bring full stom- 
achs to the planet's un- 
dernourished. 
—Peter Warshall 
e 
| passed my report to a 
Chilean newspaper re- 
porter. He visited the area, 
took pictures and published 
an article in a US magazine. 
He was subsequently jailed 
briefly for defamation of his 
country abroad. 
Was the cause of this mini- 
famine climate, overpopula- 
tion, erroneous government 
policy, the highly unequal 
agrarian structure, the par- 
tially developed industrial 
structure of Chile, or the 
fluctuation of commodity prices on the world 
market? Was it the poverty and illiteracy of 
the peasants? Was it their powerlessness? 
In fact it was all these things, and all were 
bound up in the operation of complex social 
systems interacting with fragile natural eco- 
systems. The causes of food insecurity can 
very seldom be traced to any single event or 
condition, nor are there simple recipes for 
doing away with hunger and poverty. Every 
situation, at the same time as it is deter- 
mined by international and national phenom- 
ena, is to some extent unique. 
e 
Food security can be defined as sustained 
and assured access by all social groups and 
individuals to food adequate in quantity and 
quality to meet nutritional needs. A food 
system offering security should have the 
following characteristics: (a) capacity to 
produce, store, and import sufficient food 
to meet basic food needs for all groups; (b) 
maximum autonomy and self-determination 
(without implying autarky), reducing vulner- 
ability to international market fluctuations 
and political pressures; (c) reliability, such 
that seasonal, cyclical and other variations 
in access to food are minimal; (d) sustain- 
ability such that the ecological system is 
protected and improved over time; and 
(e) equity, meaning, as a minimum, depend- 
able access to adequate food for all social 
groups. 
An End to Hunger? 
(The Social Origins of Food Strategies) 
Solon L. Barraclough. Zed Books, 1991; 
320 pp. ISBN 0-86232-993-0 
$19.95 ($22.95 postpaid) from Humanities 
Press International, 165 Ist Avenue, 
Atlantic Highlands, NJ 07716; 908/872-1441 
Soil and Civilization: Edward Hyams. Harper 
& Row, 1952, 1976, HarperCollins Publishers. 
Out of print. The rise and fall of civilizations 
from the perspective of their topsoil. Here food 
and soil are seen as the long-term drivers of civi- 
lization. Read about the Nile and the Dust Bowl, 
the Euphrates. 
Hunger Action Handbook: Leslie Withers & 
Tom Peterson, Editors. 1987, Seeds Magazine Press. 
Sustainability 
HUNGER 
Ending Hunger 
When | returned from Ethiopia, friends 
overwhelmed by TV images of swollen 
stomachs and 800 numbers, asked: Who's 
good? Who really helps? From personal ex- 
perience and the experience of Claude Bart 
and Michael Scott, here are some gems. 
Oxfam UK: 274 Branbury Road, Oxford 
OX2 7DZ, England; 0! | 44 086 53! 
1311. Oxfam America: 26 West Street, 
Boston, MA 02111; 617/482-1211. 
In 
Ethiopia, they held my utmost respect 
Practical in the face of the four horsernen. | 
trust I'll get good works for my money here. 
Bread for the World: Membership $25/ 
year (includes newsletter). | 100 Wayne 
Avenue, Suite | 000, Silver Spring, MD 
20910; 301/608-2400, fax 301/608- 
2401. The best lobbying group with the 
best publications. When Clifton cut devel- 
opment and food security aid by 40 per- 
cent, Bread for the World tried to restore 
it by getting you to pressure your 
congressperson. Quick to respond and 
good-hearted, they have finely defined 
spiritual muscle. Bread for the World 
Newsletter and Hunger | 994: Transform- 
ing the Politics of Hunger ($1! 4.95) will tell 
you of empty stomachs here in America 
and overseas. 
Institute for Food and Development Policy: 
Membership $30/year. 398 60th Street, 
Oakland, CA 94618; 800/888-3314. The 
producers of the great classic Food First, 
| 
still one of the best books on under-nutn- 
tion and the causes of world hunger. The 
avant garde on development, democracy 
and such issues as structural adjustments 
American Friends Service Committee: 50 | 
Cherry Street, Philadelphia, PA |9102; 
215/241-7000. Supports development 
projects that are long-term and people- 
based. None of the “drop-in” and “go 
home” consultancies. They stay with a vil- 
lage for years until all the kinks of change 
have been witnessed and addressed. 
Medicins Sans Frontieres: 8 Rue St. Sabin, 
F-755544, Paris, Cedex | 1, France; O01 | 
33 | 402] 2929. The doctors who go 
where it's needed — behind or on the 
battlefront. —PW [With the generous help 
| 
of Claude Bart and Michael Scott] 
Orner Great Resources 
Food First (Beyond the Myth of Scarcity): 
Frances Moore Lappe & Joseph Collins. 1981, 
Institute for Food and Development Policy. The 
classic. What keeps starving people from feeding 
themselves? It is to humans what Silent Spring 
was to nature. 
Hunger and Pubtic Action: Jean Dreze & 
Amertya Sen. 1991, Oxford University Press. 
The most readable and important book from 
\ 
the academy. Don't join an anti-hunger 
campaign until you've digested it. 
Zed Books: 7 Cynthia Street, London NI 9}F, UK; 
O11 44 071 837 8466 or clo Humanities Press In- 
ternational, 165 Ist Avenue, Atlantic Highlands, NJ 
07716; 908/872-1441. Best publisher on books on 
development and the environment. 
The Mountain People 
Hunger for food, for hope, for human 
contact. Watch them dissolve in a 
land of parched earth. One of the 
most riveting and reflective anthropo- 
logical studies of one possible future 
global scenario: chaos, —PW 
e 
Most of us are unlikely to admit readily that 
we can sink as low as the Ik, but many of us 
do, and with far less cause. However, that 
is left for the reader to decide for himself; 
this story concerns the Ik, the Mountain 
People, and their struggle for survival. Al- 
though the experience was far from pleas- 
ant, and involved both physical and mental 
suffering, | am grateful for it. In spite of it 
all, and contrary to the first tidal wave of 
disillusionment, it has added to my respect 
for humanity and my hope that we who 
have been civilized into such empty beliefs 
as the essential beauty and goodness of hu- 
manity may discover ourselves before it is 
too late. 
e 
More and more it was only the young who 
could go far from the village as hunger be- 
came starvation. Yet while oth- 
ers starved, the young remained 
relatively active. Famine relief 
had been initiated down at 
Kasilé and those fit enough to 
make the trip set off, leaving the 
others behind. When they came 
back the contrast between them 
and the others was that be- 
tween life and death. At this 
time people no longer sat on the 
di, they lay there waiting for 
nothing, the very old and the 
very young. Youths were too 
busy at this time to sit on their 
di, for collecting famine relief 
The Mountain People 
Colin M. Turnbull. Touchstone Books, 
1987; 309 pp. ISBN 0-67 1-64098-4 
$12 postpaid from Simon & Schuster/Order 
Dept., 200 Old Tappan Road, Old Tappan, 
NJ 07675; 800/223-2336 
was virtually a full-time occupation, rather 
like hunting; it called for cunning and orga- 
nization. When there was no relief to be 
had, the people who were well were all off 
foraging for what food they could find in 
the mountains or down in Kidepo. 
Villages were villages of the dead and dying, 
and there was little difference between the 
two. People crawled rather than walked — 
the very young and the very old all crawled. 
... After a few feet some would lie down 
to rest, but they could not be sure of ever 
being able to sit up again, so they mostly 
stayed upright until they reached their des- 
tination. It was their destination that in- 
trigued me, for really they were going no- 
where, these semi-animate bags of skin and 
bone, they just wanted to be with others, 
and they stopped whenever they met. Per- 
haps it was the most important demonstra- 
tion of sociality | ever saw among the Ik. 
Blind Logwara . .. when he tried to reach a dead hyena for a share of the pu- 
trid meat, his fellow Ik trampled him underfoot. He thought it quite funny. 
