EOSAT Satellite Images 
In 1984, the U.S. Congress decided 
to turn the Landsat program over to 
the private sector. The still-functioning 
Landsat 4 and 5 satellites, and the 
huge archive of data accumulated 
since 1972, have been transferred 
to the Earth Observation Satellite 
Company (EOSAT). 
Prices range from $50 for a black-and- 
white photo on paper with 80-meter 
ground resolution (image size 7.3 
inches on an edge, showing approxi- 
mately | 15 square miles), up to 
$3,300 for a computer-compatible 
tape of a scene from the Thematic 
Mapper (TM) on Landsat 5. TM 
scenes have a ground resolution of 
30 meters. The primary sensor has 
seven spectral filters. This fine spectral 
discrimination makes it possible to 
identify different plant species or types 
of rock by detecting subtle differences 
in the color of the sunlight they reflect, 
even when they're not identifiable by 
shape or texture. —Robert Horvitz 
EOSAT Satellite Images 
Information from Earth Observation 
Satellite Company, 4300 Forbes Boulevard, 
Lanham, MD 20706; 800/344-9933, 
Below from Above. Georg Gerster. 1985. 
Abbeville Press. 
The World from Above. Hans Reich. 1966. 
Hill & Wang. OUT OF PRINT. 
Space Focus: Images from the New 
Frontier. Catalog from Focus, Inc., 
4030 Pike Lane, Suite C, Concord, CA 94520. 
800/829-2602. 
Los Angeles. 
Whole Systems 
THE EARTH FROM ABOVE 
The Home Planet 
Here are |50 awesome color photo- 
graphs of Earth from space (most pre- 
viously unpublished), chosen from 
NASA and Soviet archives. The com- 
ments, from the world's astronauts 
and cosmonauts, are translated into 
the nine languages in which this book 
has been simultaneously published. 
Editor Kevin W. Kelley has done us a 
great service by seeing this difficult in- 
ternational enterprise through to such 
a beautiful result. Most readers come 
away with a new feeling of what it 
means to say “our Earth.” —JB 
The North Sea coast of Europe. 
The Home Planet 
Kevin W. Kelley. 1991; 256 pp. 
ISBN 0-201-55095-4 
$22.07 ($24.57 postpaid) from Addison- 
Wesley Publishing Co./Order Dept., | Jacob 
Way, Reading, MA 01867; 800/447-2226 
Satellite Surveillance 
As a user and critic of many books 
on technology, | run into one common 
problem: The writers of the books of- 
ten forget that their readers don't 
know what they know. As a conse- 
quence, they neglect to explain essen- 
tial basics. Harold Hough's book 
avoids this error. It gives you virtual 
short courses in optics, photography, 
and several other disciplines necessary 
to grasp modern satellite “look-down” 
technology. You learn what satellites 
can and cannot do, how their diverse 
capacities can be integrated to reveal 
military and industrial information, and 
how satellites are on the leading edge 
of exploration on earth (not just in 
space). Satellite surveillance is one of 
the fastest-growing businesses in 
America precisely because it helps 
other businesses grow. Whatever your 
business, from geology to insurance to 
intelligence, Hough's book suggests 
how you can cash in on this technol- 
ogy — and how you can protect your- 
self from its prying eyes. 
—E. G. Ross 
e 
There are four factors that make satellite 
imagery ideal for agriculture. 
|. Satellite images cover large tracts of 
ground. This makes such imagery ideal for 
government agriculture agents to monitor 
districts or for farmers to obtain a profile 
Satellite Surveillance 
Harold Hough. 1991; 196 pp. 
ISBN 1-55950-077-8 
$21.95 ($25.95 postpaid) from Loompanics 
Unlimited, PO Box 1197, Port Townsend, 
WA 98368 
of their whole farm. Therefore, large trends 
can be monitored with ease. For instance, a 
plant parasite or disease can be tracked as 
it moves, giving farmers an opportunity to 
isolate and attack it before it progresses. 
2. Each type of plant has its own reflective 
pattern. Therefore, two different types of 
crops that appear to be the same from an 
aerial picture would look drastically differ- 
ent from a multispectral scanner. 
3. Plants change their reflective patterns as 
they mature. In many cases, these patterns 
have been studied and analysts can tell how 
far the plant has progressed and if illness or 
stress has retarded growth. Based on this 
information, analysts can tell when a crop is 
ready for harvesting and the potential yield. 
Farmers can even tell if they will harvest 
before their neighbors and, therefore, 
receive higher prices. 
4. Satellite images also identify the con- 
dition of the ground. An analyst can look 
over a large area and tell if the fields are 
too dry or muddy for planting. By care- 
fully monitoring ground condition, farmers 
can choose their planting time and the 
right crops. 
9 
