Sustainability 
DECLARATION OF INTERDEPENDENCE 7 
The 
Earth 
At the Rio Earth Summit, about 18,000 nongovernmental organiza- 
_—_any given issue, a few countries usually wanted to avoid aligning themselves 
S 
it: 
tions (NGOs) entered the fray. About |,500 of them were actually 
with either the Northern Bloc or the Group of 77 (a coalition of Southern 
abe * | accredited by ECOSOC (the UN Economic and Social Council). 
nations). For example, members of the Forest Treaty Working Group, an 
AView 
Compare this to 1945, when the US governmentinvitedaboutforty 
 @ssortment of individuals and NGOs, would talk in the corridors to Mexican 
from the 
NGOs to take part in United Nations organizing meetings in San 
°° Venezuelan delegates looking for compromise language or more sustain- 
Grassroots 
Francisco. NGOs were listed as consultants. Every consultant 
able approaches to forestry, and who were therefore eager (as eager as a UN 
brought associates, so there was plenty of lobbying. 
delegate can be) to talk to us. 
The UN Charter did not originally mention human rights. It’s said that only 
through the NGOs’ efforts did human-rights guarantees become part of the 
Charter. The NGOs were organizations like the American Farm Bureau, 
Rotary, and NAACP — not much in the way of environmental groups. 
With the tidal wave of citizens’ groups now inundating the global stage, 
ECOSOC is reviewing the whole process of accreditation and what it means 
for NGOs to participate in the UN, a subject which has been fairly murky since 
that first meeting. 
The UN has tentatively and very carefully opened its doors to wider NGO 
participation, basically under NGO pressure. But during the planning stages 
and at Rio, many UN delegates stood to benefit — they were unfamiliar with 
issues like biodiversity, forestry, and women’s rights, and NGOs were often 
able to provide expertise. Since the | ,500 official 
NGOs could work on official texts, they were 
able to provide delegates with actual language 
and supporting rationale to present in debates. 
Many nations included NGO repre- 
sentatives in their Earth Summit del- 
egations. To them, it was good evi- 
The 
dence of their belief in grassroots 
| Video 
ont, 
political will. 
Project 
\ pe os 
At Rio, NGO lobbying was never 
confined to one’s own country. On | Exceptional films and videos with an 
impressive list of award winners and 
videos like The Panama Deception 
EcoLinking 
and the Glasnost Series (| 2 videos on 
—_——_—. 
modern Russia) available nowhere 
For the environmental activist who isn’t 
enthralled by virtual communities or 
online culture — but who might be 
very interested in an email list con- 
cerning birding, cancer clusters, or 
ocean drilling — Ecolinking can be a 
one-step shopping 
spree. It takes you 
step by step through 
the fundamentals of 
buying and installing 
da modem, and con- 
necting with online 
services. You also get 
thorough listings of 
environmental fo- 
rums and databases 
available on EcoNet, 
Fidonet, Bitnet, 
Usenet, Intemet, 
and sustainable world and | like An- 
cient Futures: Learning from Ladakh 
(p. 73) and A Thousand Cranes 
. Like 
Bullfrog Films, it's the Whole Earth 
Catalog animated. —PW 
The Video Project: 5332 Col- 
lege Avenue, Suite 101, Oakland, 
CA 94618; 800/475-2638 
else. But their compassion is for a safe 
| 
The North was trying to persuade the South not to cut down its forests, 
without offering any concessions or paying any persuasion money. The Group 
of 77, led by Malaysia, stressed sovereignty, saying that they could do what they 
pleased (basically meaning that the elites would sell off their timber to other 
elites, and never mind their own sustainable-forest NGOs). Looking for 
compromise, the Mexican delegate would often try to insert a phrase, or 
maybe an entire paragraph, from our suggestions into the negotiable sections. 
All this has been viewed with some alarm by the UN. But the doors have 
remained open. If the UN remains a grand forum of global influence, then its 
citizenry will act globally as well as locally. Here’s how: 
Networking: It’s great to see people compare notes and then end-run govern- 
ments too inflexible or too mired in politics to move. At one preparatory 
meeting, Malaysians dealing with a recently arrived 
chemical company got together with a group who had 
just been dealing with their own sick children and the 
same chemical company 
in Louisiana. They ex- 
changed stories, symptoms, strategies, and began to 
work together. 
Learning: The Northern NGOs learned at first hand 
what kind of development must accompany environ- 
mental work, why overconsumption 
in our own 
backyards must be addressed before we speak about 
population control, and why equity and environmen- 
tal justice must move to the top of the list. 
Advocacy: UN delegates often represent their country’s elite. At this point, the 
NGOsare the only advocates for grassroots, local communities, or indigenous 
interests. 
Accountability: When a delegate makes grandiose statements about progress 
on human rights or the environment, not only have his or her own nation’s 
NGOs heard the statement but also the NGO “bloc” from every other nation. 
Their members tend to remember, and to bring up these memories at 
appropriately embarrassing moments. —Sharyle Patton 
Bullfrog Films 
world. According to Peter Singer, the heart 
of the argument lies in the recognition that 
we should not discount the pain and suffer- 
ing of another just because the being that is 
suffering is not human. Many believe this is 
a critical advance in the evolution of our 
moral thinking, and it is certainly time for 
all of us to familiarize ourselves with the ar- 
guments of the animal rights movement, ar- 
They sell ‘em, rent ‘em, they provide 
free previews. They deal videos. But 
most importantly, they have a great 
selection of films, and the choice is in- 
formed by a commendably loose defi- 
nition of “environmental.” | doubt 
there's even one sappy offering. Bull- 
frog also furnishes entire shticks — a 
America OnLine, 
CompuServe, GEnie, the WELL, and 
commercial online research databases. 
Long lists of newsgroups and electronic 
archives, with precise subscription in- 
formation, make this an indispensable 
resource for enviro-activists who are 
ready to use online media. —HLR 
eee 
ING 
e 
A Selection of EcoNet Conferences: 
pain 
en.cleanair Communication about air pollu- 
tion; topics range from government policy 
to action ideas. 
: 
EcoLinking 
(Everyone’s Guide to Online 
Environmental Information) 
Don Rittner. 1992; 352 pp. 
ISBN 0-938151-35-5 
$18.95 ($22.95 postpaid) from Peachpit 
Press Inc., 2414 6th Street, Berkeley, 
CA 94710; 800/283-9444 
en.climate Discussion of pollution, its ef- 
fects, and methods for dealing with it. 
en.pollution Conference on pollution, includ- 
ing effects, sources, policy, and advocacy. 
en.waste Discussion of waste management, 
from toxic pollution to actions planned 
against 
polluters. 
: 
ae 
F 
B 
P 
: 
en.bioconversi Discussion of the use of 
woody and agricultural plants in energy 
production. 
en.bioanerobi Discussion of alternative meth- 
ods of recycling waste products for fuel. 
complete course with extensive 
teacher's guide and computer soft- 
ware. They are without serious rival as 
a source of fare that interests kids and 
adults. —J. Baldwin 
e 
TOAST. /2 Minutes/Grades 3-Adult; Produced 
by Earth Chronicles/A film by Daniel Hoffman 
One of the most effective energy films ever 
made, TOAST illustrates our underlying de- 
pendence on fossil fuels, and takes as its ex- 
ample the production and distribution of a 
commonplace item, bread. Using flowing 
images set to music, it documents all the 
fossil fuel inputs, from the oil well head (to 
make the fertilizer to grow the wheat, etc.) 
to the toaster. With Discussion Guide. 
e 
IN DEFENSE OF ANIMALS: A portrait of 
Peter Singer. 28 Minutes/Grades 9-Adult; Pro- 
duced by Julie Akeret 
This is an excellent summation of both the 
philosophical and practical arguments that 
underpin one of the fastest growing politi- 
cal movements in this country and the 
guments that are too frequently trivialized 
or deliberately misrepresented. 
Bullfrog Films: PO Box 149, Oley, PA 
19547; 800/543-3764 
