ONSENSUS DECISION MAKING, in its true form, is a 
most radical spiritual practice. Even in groups with the prerequi 
site common interest, a manner of decisionmaking founded on 
the conviction that every person has a piece of the truth and every person 
is equal to every other, and must be listened to with fitting respect, demands 
— and eventually elicits — a new kind of self. It’s a way of finding workable 
agreements without knightly clashes or backroom deals. 
Thus it goes against the grain of our modes of discourse and thinking. The 
goal is not for me to come up with such a clever solution to a problem that 
everyone else in the group will fall right down oohing and ahing whereupon 
my notion prevails (thereby leaving the silent majority or minority a little 
disenfranchised, if not positively rebellious). The goal is for a group of 
absolute peers to arrive, by careful, respectful, open and attentive discussion, 
at the best possible decision that can be made at that time. 
Consensus develops a powerful sense of community in a group that shares 
values and a purpose. It takes time — good and careful work usually does. 
As you might expect, the outcomes are satisfying, comely, and durable. 
Cutting one’s ideas loose from one’s ego by faith that nothing is wasted in 
consensus process fosters a gentle possibility of enlightenment. 
—Stephanie Mills 
Meeting Facilitation 
Ten pages of advice that can save you 
and your group a world of hurt, to say 
nothing of a great deal of 
time. Meet- 
ing Facilitation is simple, but not easy. 
It's profoundly different from presiding. 
Berit Lakey tells how with simplicity 
and brevity. Keep this handy and re- 
view it frequently. —SM 
e 
Agenda Review 
|. Go through the whole agenda in headline 
form, giving a brief idea of what is to be 
covered and how. 
2. Briefly explain the rationale behind the 
order of the proposed agenda. 
3. Then, and not before, ask for questions 
and comments. 
4. Don't be defensive about the agenda you 
have proposed, but don’t change everything 
at the suggestion of one person — check it 
out with the group first. 
5. If major additions are proposed, make 
the group aware that adjustments must be 
made because of the limited time available, 
On Conflict and Consensus 
This manual provides instructions in a 
method of consensus that subjects a 
participant's move to block consensus 
to the judgment of the group as a 
whole, Fine exposition of the shared 
principles that must undergird a 
group's consensus decisionmaking, as 
well as specific advice on agenda set- 
ting, meeting conduct, and roles that 
may usefully be filled (Public Scribe, 
Advocate, Notetaker, Doorkeeper, 
Timekeeper, and Peacekeeper, 
for instance.) —SM 
e 
Formal Consensus is a specific kind of 
decisionmaking. It must be defined by the 
group using it. It provides a foundation, 
structure, and collection of techniques for 
efficient and productive group discussions. 
The foundation is the commonly-held prin- 
ciples and decisions which created the 
group originally. The structure is predeter- 
mined, although flexible. The agenda is for- 
Meeting Facilitation 
(The No-Magic Method) 
Berit Lakey. 1975; || pp. 
ISBN 0-86571-027-9 
75¢ ($3.25 postpaid) from New Society 
Publishers, 4527 Springfield Avenue, 
Philadelphia, PA 19143; 800/333-9093 
like taking something out, postponing 
something until later, etc. 
6. If an item that some people do not want 
to deal with is suggested for discussion, 
consider that there is no consensus and it 
cannot be included at that time. 
7. Remember that your responsibility as fa- 
cilitator is to the whole group and not to 
each individual. 
On Conflict 
and 
Consensus 
> 
i 
I 
rang ocr 
x 
sy 
. 
® ‘- 
» 
‘S 
Ns 
ee 
x — 
= 
On Conflict and Consensus 
(A Handbook on Formal 
Consensus Decisionmaking) 
C. T. Lawrence Butler 
& Amy Rothstein. 1991; 63 pp. 
$12.50 ($14 postpaid) from Food Not 
Bombs Publishing, 295 Forest Avenue 
#314, Portland, ME 04101 
mal and extremely important. The roles, 
techniques, and skills necessary for smooth 
operation must be accessible to and devel- 
oped in all members. Evaluation of the pro- 
cess must happen on a consistent and fre- 
quent basis, as a tool for self-education and 
self-management. Above all, Formal Con- 
sensus must be taught. It is unreasonable to 
Community 
CONSENSUS 
Building United Judgment * A Manual for Group Facilitators 
Two comprehensive, tried-and-true 
texts form the basic kit for adopting 
and practicing consensus process. 
Building United Judgment explains 
the fundaments of consensus and 
the values that support it. A Manual 
for Group Facilitators addresses the 
technique of meeting facilitation. It's 
very sawy about group dynamics and 
simple physical things that can be 
done to make any working meeting 
more satisfying. It might also be called 
a manual for servant leadership. 
—SM 
e 
Advantages for Group Facilitators 
|. Quality of the decision. Since the decision 
must be acceptable to a variety of people, it 
is more likely to be examined carefully and 
to meet complex standards of workability, 
desirability, and integrity. 
2. Creativity. Rather than a quick choice for 
the favorite of two, or a few, options, a de- 
cision which attempts to meet everyone's 
needs will require the group to produce 
and consider a wide range of proposals. 
Often more imaginative and creative 
possibilities are discovered. 
3. Commitment and satisfaction. The struggle 
to reach consensus requires more intense 
involvement from group members. In major- 
ity rule, dissenting group members are often 
committed to the decision merely by con- 
tract. In consensus, commitment arises from 
involvement as well as from satisfaction. 
e 
The decision to block consensus is a 
momentous one. If you as an individual 
block a decision that the rest of the group 
supports, you are saying that you feel the 
decision is so seriously wrong that you will 
Facilitation Training 
Facilitation isn't exactly counter-intui- 
tive, but it’s deeply counter-cultural. 
Personal instruction, observing a profi- 
cient facilitator, and role-playing in 
workshops all can launch you into op- 
portunities to be of 
real service in 
groups pursuing a common purpose 
and, ideally, a greater good. C.T. 
Lawrence Butler and Caroline 
Estes are masters of 
this art. 
—SM 
For further information, contact: 
C. T. Butler, c/o Food Not Bombs 
Publishing, 295 Forest Ave., #314, 
Portland, ME 04101; 207/828-0401, or 
Caroline Estes, c/o Alpha Farm, Dead- 
wood, OR 97430; 503/964-5102. 
not permit the group to proceed on it. 
Your reason may be on moral or practical 
grounds, or based on personal feelings or 
on the needs of group members or people 
whom the group affects. It is important not 
to take your power to block consensus 
lightly. However, if after careful consider- 
ation, you strongly believe that the decision 
would be a wrong one, then it is your re- 
sponsibility to block consensus. 
—Building United Judgment 
e 
One need not be labeled “facilitator” in 
order to employ facilitation techniques in 
a group. Any group member can call the 
group back to the subject of the discussion, 
interrupt patterns of conflict or misunder- 
standing between other parties, offer clar- 
ifying comments, summarize activities or 
give evaluative feedback. In some groups, 
these responsibilities are shared by many 
or all of the members. Other groups, 
whose members are less skillful at group 
process, will expect the facilitator to 
perform this function alone. 
—A Manual for Group Facilitators 
Building United Judgment 
(A Handbook for Concensus 
Decision Making) 
Center for Conflict Resolution. 1981; 
124 pp. ISBN 0-941492-01-X 
A Manual for Group Facilitators 
Center for Conflict Resolution. 1978; 90 pp. 
ISBN 0-941492-00-| 
Each $12.95 ($15.45 postpaid) from New 
Society Publishers, 4527 Springfield Avenue, 
Philadelphia, PA 19143; 800/333-9093 
Anotuer Great Resource 
Tools for Change Reader: Margo Adair and 
Sharon Howell. Information from Tools for 
Change, PO Box 14141, San Francisco, CA 
94114. 
expect people to already be familiar 
with this process. Generally, coop- 
erative, nonviolent conflict resolu- 
tion does not exist in modern 
North American society. These 
skills must be developed in what is 
primarily a competitive environ- 
ment. Only time will tell if, in fact, 
this model will flourish and prove it- 
self effective and worthwhile. 
