Civilization 
THEORY OF CIVILIZATION is inherent in the Whole 
Earth Catalog. It came with our first customers, back in 
1968 — the communes and “intentional communities.” I 
described them at the time as bands of adventurous mal- 
contents who were setting out to reinvent civilization, 
trying to get it right this time. Their communes failed (so did Israel’s, 
so did China’s), but their process turned out to have surprising value 
and robustness. The terms you heard then were “back to basics” and 
“grass roots” and, later, “empowerment.” There was a perpetual 
argument, often fruitful, between advocates of “consensus” and 
of “do your own thing.” 
The personal-computer revolution was a direct result of that value 
system. It was initiated and carried to fruition by youthful longhairs, 
on purpose, with striking consistency between what was intended 
and what was accomplished. The impulse was to decentralize soci- 
ety — to undermine the high priests and air-conditioned mainframes 
of information technology and hand their power to absolutely every- 
body. There were a few inspirers but no leaders and no books to fol- 
low. Only years later did the movement-defining battle cry emerge 
— FAST, CHEAP, AND OUT OF CONTROL. (It came from 
roboticist Rodney Brooks, in the same niche of MIT where the origi- 
nal computer hackers had taken root thirty years before.) 
One of Whole Earth’s editors, Kevin Kelly, has written a superlative 
book on the subject — Out of Control: The Rise of Neo-biological Civili- 
zation (see p. 238 for the review). The discovery was made simulta- 
neously, in a whole array of sciences and arts, that truly adaptive 
systems grow from the bottom up, not from the top down. 
and Its Contents 
Todd 
Tibbetts 
Je 
BY STEWART BRAND 
WHOLE EARTH EDITOR 1968-1984 
So The Millennium Whole Earth Catalog is what? It is a handing of the 
tools of a whole civilization to its citizens. The lineage of this service 
goes back to the Encyclopédie (1751-1776) of Denis Diderot, whose 
thirty-five volumes constituted a “tremendous storehouse of fact and 
propaganda that swept Europe and taught it what ‘reason,’ ‘rights,’ 
‘authority,’ ‘government,’ ‘liberty,’ ‘equality,’ and related social prin- 
| 
ciples are or should be. The work was subversive in its tendency, not 
in its advocacy: it took for granted toleration, the march of mind ex- 
emplified by science, and the good of the whole people. . 
. 
. The 
eleven volumes of plates were in themselves a revolutionary force, 
for they made public what had previously been kept secret by the 
guilds, and they supported the philosophe doctrine that the dissemi- 
nation of knowledge was the high road to emancipation” (The Colum- 
bia History of the World, 1972). Diderot’s Encyclopédie was the leading tool 
| 
of the Enlightenment. 
When Jon McIntire, Whole Earth’s then director, conceived The 
Millennium Whole Earth Catalog and made the publishing deal with 
Harper San Francisco, the intent was to surpass everything Whole 
Earth had done previously. Editor-in-chief Howard Rheingold and 
present director John Sumser pushed through the prodigious effort 
required, and you see the result. 
| 
Here are the tools to make your life go better. And to make the world 
go better. That they’re the same tools is our theory of civilization. 
