<tuiheS 
ee Wee 
rnc ANAND, 
The Art of Sexual Ecstasy 
Margo Anand. Jeremy P. Tarcher Inc., 1991; 
450 pp. ISBN 0-87477-581-7 
$18.95 ($21.45 postpaid). Putnam Publishing 
Group/Order Dept., PO Box 506, East 
Rutherford, NJ 07073; 800/631-8571 
The Art of Sexual Ecstasy 
This wonderful book links the technol- 
ogy of good sex — breathing, relax- 
ation, communication, movement, 
touch, and sound — with an under- 
standing that sex begins long before 
ft 
we touch each other in the bedroom. 
It can help couples harmonize the 
deep differences between men and 
women's responses and approaches 
to sexuality. 
The Art of Sexual Ecstasy deals with 
the things that precede what we usu- 
ally think of as lovemaking. Foreplay 
loses its meaning: it's all foreplay, or 
none of it is. All the details matter: a 
clean, flower-filled space, passing a 
perfume bottle under the nose of your 
blindfolded lover, speaking your sexual 
joys and fears. Again, the goal is to 
frame sexuality differently — to make 
it new, playful, less embarassing, and 
more aware. 
A step-by-step guide to what the 
West knows best — communication, 
bioenergetics, the pubococcygeus 
muscle — and what the East knows 
best — breathing, yoga, energy chan- 
nels, moving orgasmic energy up the 
spine. The ultimate goal here is to 
spread orgasmic sensation to every 
cell of your body in a wave of bliss 
that lights your brain and unites the 
sexual and the spiritual. Write me 
when you get that far. There's enough 
here to keep you busy for years. 
—Katy Butler 
Men In Love 
What does it mean to be a man? 
And what does it mean to be a man 
in love? Ten years before Robert Bly, 
bonding, drum beats, and Iron John, 
feminist writer Nancy Friday, author of 
the justly famous My Mother/My Self, 
was asking just that question in her 
groundbreaking examination of the 
male psyche. 
Never judgmental, Friday interviewed 
more than a thousand subjects for this 
eye-opening study. And what did she 
find? That the secret garden of the 
masculine imagination is sometimes 
dark and cruel — and yet emerging 
from that garden, most men are ca- 
pable of profound acts of caring and 
kindness and love. Men In Love is a 
book for anyone who wishes to better 
understand lovers, husbands, brothers, 
fathers, sons, and especially one’s self. 
—Ben Trumble 
e 
Most of my fantasies are about my wife 
Sophie. Although | have many without her, | 
like the.ones in which she stars because 
she’s the most important person in my life. 
I'll start with the first and most important 
fantasy: I’m hiding in the closet when my 
wife brings a lover into the bedroom. They 
begin to kiss and fondle and take each 
other’s clothes off until they are naked. He 
sucks on her tits and she sighs and spreads 
her legs wider (they are standing on a rug 
in front of the bed) so he can get his hand 
into her cunt. Then she grips his dick which 
is thick and long and pulls him down on top 
of the bed. She starts to run her tongue 
around the head, then slips it into her 
mouth. | usually come by this time, but | 
can make it last longer by inventing more 
details. 
Besides my wife and you, Nancy, only one 
other person knows about my fantasies. He 
is a close friend who married my sister. | 
told him everything, including the idea that | 
would love to see him fucking Sophie. This 
got him very excited, and he blurted out 
that he’d always had fantasies that my sister 
was not a virgin when she married him, and 
that | was the one who had taken her 
maidenhead. To tell the truth, exchanging 
those ideas got us both so excited, that we 
were rubbing each other though our pants 
before we finished, and have met a few 
more times since then to do a few more 
experiments in which we combine stories 
about swapping wives and jerking each 
other off. | guess maybe I’m bisexual. 
When I’m having trouble getting it up, my 
wife will often tell me one of her fantasies 
about fucking some guy, and it jumps right 
up. There’s one guy in particular who gets 
me all hot and bothered when she talks 
about him. He works with her and really 
turns her on, but she’s afraid to pursue it 
much. She was a virgin when we married, 
and I’m the only guy who’s screwed her. 
| wish she would fuck another man or 
woman and like it. That way | could act out 
my favorite fantasy and get her to make it 
with my brother-in-law. A trio would be 
heaven. 
Men In Love 
(The Triumph of Love over Rage) 
Nancy Friday. 1983, 214 pp. 
ISBN 0-440-15903-2 
$6.99 ($9.49 postpaid). Bantam, Doubleday, 
Dell/Fulfillment Dept., 2451 S. Wolf Road, 
Des Plaines, IL 60018; 800/223-6834 
My Parents Never Had Sex 
Normalcy can be capricious. Though 
almost no one thinks twice about the 
often very public passion of young lov- 
ers on a warm spring day, those same 
open displays of affection seem oddly 
inappropriate when the lovers in ques- 
tion are middle-aged or elderly. We 
never talk about it, but in our culture 
sex is for the young. 
As Doris Hammond ably points out in 
My Parents Never Had Sex, the myths 
surrounding sexual aging have almost 
nothing to do with biological realities. 
We may slow down, but the fires 
never die. In fact, we do society a 
great injustice by expecting celibacy 
from our older members. 
The good news is that attitudes are 
beginning to change. The bodies in the 
beer commercials may stay etemally 
twenty, but the rest of us are coming 
to terms with our grey hair, pot bellies, 
and lifelong sexuality. —BT 
e 
An interesting comment was offered by 
one of my daughters, who, when realizing 
| would be writing this book, told me of a 
conversation between her younger sister 
and their father. | had just been certified as 
a sex counselor, and the youngest daughter 
wondered how | could possibly know 
enough about sex to be a sex counselor. 
Her father replied, “You'd be surprised 
how much your mother knows!” | rather 
imagine that, even though my daughters can 
intellectualize about their mother as a “sex 
expert,” it is just as difficult for them to 
imagine their father and me having sex as 
it is for other children to imagine the 
same about their parents. 
Sex 
PLEASURABLE POSTSCRIPTS 
Good Sex 
This book is a refreshing look at all the 
things that are right with American 
sexuality. If you like Studs Terkel, you'll 
feel right at home with Julia Hutton. 
Whether she’s talking to a happily 
manmied forty-six-year-old woman with 
three children living in the suburbs, or 
a gay male graphic designer in San 
Francisco's Castro District, ultimately 
her message is the same: Love is joy. 
And sex is wonderful. —BT 
e 
“| don’t think good sex is a mathematical 
equation: This act plus this act equals good 
sex. It’s more a sense of well-being, physical 
release, and relaxation, no doubt, no wor- 
ries. We have a lot of humor. Most of the 
giggle sessions we have are in bed, and 
things happen that are so hilarious. One 
time we attempted to lick chocolate fudge 
off each other, but it was really sticky so it 
didn’t come off. It was everywhere!” 
Good Sex 
(Real Stories from Real People) 
Julia Hutton. 1993; 222 pp. 
ISBN 0-939416-57-3 
$12.95 ($14.45). Cleis Press, PO Box 8933, 
Pittsburg, PA 15221; 412/937-1555 
My Parents Never Had Sex 
(Myths & Facts of Sexual Aging) 
Doris B. Hammond. 1987: 180 pp. 
ISBN 0-87975-364-| 
$12.95 ($15.95 postpaid). Prometheus 
Books 59 John Glenn Drive, Amherst, 
NY 14228-2197, 800/421-0351 
199 
