58 
Biodiversity 
TROPICAL RAIN FORESTS 
The Last Rain Forests: A World Conservation Atlas 
If you own one book on rain forests, 
this is it. Equal attention is given to 
all rain forests from Thailand to 
Cameroon, Madagascar to Amazonia. 
The Last Rain Forests harbors an in- 
troductory atlas, a good ecological 
overview, an understanding of native 
peoples and the World Bank. In a 
rather sober tone, it tries to combine 
reason and hope for a compassionate 
future. If you want a sympathetic nar- 
rative in addition to a photographic at- 
las, In the Rain Forest by Catherine 
Caulfield (University of Chicago Press, 
| 11030 S. Langley Avenue, Chicago, IL 
60628; 800/621-2736) remains the 
best written scientific journalism and 
clear-headed reporting. 
—Peter Warshall 
e 
Rain forest covers no more than 8.5 million 
square kilometres (3.3 million square miles) 
or six percent of the earth’s land surface. 
This is just over half of what was not long 
ago a forested area of about 14 million 
square kilometres (5.5 million square 
miles). In 1980, the rate of deforestation of 
rain and monsoon forest was around 
71,000 square kilometres (27,000 square 
miles) a year, about 0.6 percent of the re- 
maining area, according to the Food and 
Agriculture Organization (FAO). But envi- 
ronmentalist Norman Myers has recently 
completed a study for Friends of the Earth 
(FOE) in which he estimates the current rate 
of loss to be a staggering 142,000 square 
kilometres (54,000 square miles) a year. 
e 
Deep inside the forest, agriculturalists are 
clearing areas too small to show on the 
maps, and logging companies are exploiting 
the forest over thousands of square 
kilometres. By the time the first of such 
damage becomes apparent much of the 
whole of the forest may be degraded. But 
the rain forest does have the potential to 
Sakuddei shaman (right) with his brothers. 
recover, given enough time to do so. Even 
in Kalimantan and Sabah, where in 1982-83 
drought followed by massive fires de- 
stroyed more than 40,000 square 
kilometres (15,500 square miles of rain for- 
est), reports are now emerging of extensive 
regrowth in the affected areas. 
The vitality and robustness of the rain for- 
ests nonetheless permit no complacency. In 
Southeast Asia, the rain forests cleared for 
shifting cultivation are often left fallow for 
too little time for the soil to replenish itself. 
The unrelenting pressure of logging, 
relogging, clearing and burning that is taking 
place in much of Amazonia, West Africa 
and Asia is pushing the rain forests into a 
downward spiral of degradation from which 
there is little chance of recovery. 
People of the Tropical Rain Forest 
Callously called “temporary economic 
dislocations,” the development of 
rainforests has destroyed entire lives. 
What price progress? And what is 
progress? People is a combo of en- 
gaging photos and detailed text. An 
excellent overview of what is, with just 
a little of how it could be. —PW 
e 
The few remaining Amazonian, Bornean, or 
African natives who walk softly through the 
forest and receive from it all their life’s ne- 
cessities and return to it all they have pro- 
duced are a vanishing minority among 
today’s rain-forest people. Many more for- 
est folk participate in markets—local, na- 
tional, or international. They fell large trees 
with chainsaws; they plant crops that origi- 
nated on the other side of the globe; their 
dreams reflect the lives of people who 
An Iban tribesman sharpens his chainsaw. 
Like the badges that travelers collect, his 
tattoos testify to his many journeys, most 
of them probably to logging camps. 
never saw a rain forest; and they worship 
gods who only walked in deserts. 
People of the 
Tropical 
Rain Forest 
Julie Denslow & Christine Padoch, Editors. 
University of California Press, 1988; 240 pp. 
ISBN 0-520-06351-1 
$27.50 ($30.50 postpaid) from California/ 
Princeton Fulfillment Services, 1445 Lower 
Ferry Road, Ewing, NJ 08618; 800/777-4726 
Amazonia 
The concem is overwhelming. 
The size of the United 
States, Amazonia is losing 
20 hectares of rainforest per 
minute, with 8,000 fires per 
dry season, besides the gold/ 
oil/coca leafiland rush. Con- 
cem started in 1955 with 
the publication of Tristes 
Tropiques, still the most im- 
portant book on who we are 
and how we view ourselves; 
Lévi-Strauss is humbly taught by tropi- 
cal rainforest folk. At Play in the Fields 
of the Lord added the first American 
cry in the wilderness. Then a thunder- 
An Introduction to Tropical Rain 
Forests, by T.C. Whitmore. 1990, 
Oxford University Press. Best 
rainforest ecological text. 
Tropical Rain Forests of the Far 
East, by T. C. Whitmore. 1988, Ox- 
ford University Press. Out of Print. 
Fig 33. Emblazoned penis sheaths 
—Tristes Tropiques 
storm of books including Voices From 
the Amazon and Rainforests: A Guide 
to Research at Tourist Facilities and 
Selected Tropical Forest Sites in Cen- 
tral and South America—PW 
e 
The parcelled-up eagle was unceremoni- 
ously dumped by the side of a stream, 
where it seemed doomed to die rapidly of 
hunger or be eaten by ants. The Tupi kept 
eagles and fed them on monkeys, so as to 
be able to pluck their feathers periodically. 
It was not surprising, then, that it should 
have survived among a group of Tupi- 
Kawahib, nor that the eagle, which they 
looked upon as their most precious posses- 
sion, should have been brought as 
a present, if the natives had really 
decided (as | began to suspect and 
indeed subsequently confirmed) to 
leave their village for good and join 
the civilized world. However, that 
only made it more difficult to un- 
derstand why they should have 
abandoned the eagle to its pitiable 
fate. Yet the whole history of 
colonization in South America and 
elsewhere must take into account 
this kind of radical renunciation of 
traditional values, when, during the break- 
up of a way of life, the loss of certain ele- 
ments lead to the immediate depreciation 
of all the rest. —Tristes Tropiques 
Voices from the Amazon: Binka Le Breton. 
Kumarian Press, 1993. 
Tristes Tropiques: Claude Levi-Strauss. Penguin 
Books, 1955, 1992. 
At Play in the Fields of the Lord: Peter 
Matthiessen. Peter Smith Publisher, Inc., 1992. 
Rainforests; A Guide to Research and Tourist Facili- 
ties at Selected Tropical Forest Sites in Central and 
South America. James L. Castner. Feline Press, 1990. 
The Forest People 
The most unadvertised of rainforests. 
This book is a classic and beautiful de- 
scription of the Pygmies of the Congo. 
No book on rainforest peoples any- 
where is so moving. —PW 
e 
One night in particular will always live for 
me, because that night | think | learned just 
how far away we civilized human beings 
have drifted from reality. The moon was 
full, so the dancing had gone on for longer 
than usual. Just before going to sleep | was 
standing outside my hut when | heard a cu- 
rious noise from the nearby children’s bopi. 
This surprised me, because at nighttime the 
Pygmies generally never set foot outside 
the main camp. | wandered over to see 
what it was. 
There, in the tiny clearing, splashed with sil- 
ver, was the sophisticated Kenge, clad in 
bark cloth, adorned with leaves, with a 
flower stuck in his hair. He was all alone, 
dancing around and singing softly to himself 
as he gazed up at the treetops. 
Now Kenge was the biggest flirt for miles, 
so, after watching a while, | came into the 
clearing and asked, jokingly, why he was 
dancing alone. He stopped, turned slowly 
around and looked at me as though | was 
the biggest fool he had ever seen; and he 
was plainly surprised by my stupidity. 
“But I’m not dancing alone,” he said. “l am 
dancing with the forest, dancing with the 
moon.” Then, with the utmost unconcern, 
he ignored me and continued his dance of 
love and life. 
The Forest People 
Colin M. Turnbull. 1988; 295 pp. 
ISBN 0-8446-6334-4 
$18.50 ($19.98 postpaid) from Peter Smith 
Publisher, 6 Lexington Avenue, Magnolia, 
MA 01930; 508/525-3562 
