yy ane 44. %< 
Trance, like any subjective state, is 
hard to study and categorize scientifi- 
cally, but Felicitas Goodman has suc- 
ceeded by approaching the subject 
experientially and opening to her 
intuition about visionary trance expe- 
riences. Her work links successful 
staging of trance states to particular 
postures combined with rhythmic 
stimulation (such as a drum or rattle). 
She also connects visionary trance ex- 
periences and mythic archetypes, 
@kearning 
TRANCE 369 
e 
The greatest mystery of all, however, is the 
agreement in visionary content. Where we 
do have evidence in local traditions, it is 
clear that cross-culturally the postures 
elicit almost identical experiences, as in the 
case of the posture of the Bear Spirit or 
the Chiltan Spirits. This flies in the face of 
one of the most cherished tenets of an- 
thropology, namely, that the individual 
cultural system shapes the content of the 
experience. It is supposed to supersede all 
else, even structuring visual illusions, as 
Segall et al. have shown in their research on 
OF meee en err 
noe 
. 
Medallion on jug no. 2, gold treasure 
of Nagyszentmiklos, Hungary; 
10th-1 1th century A.D. 
Where the Spirits Ride the Wind 
(Trance Journeys and Other Ecstatic Experiences) 
Felicitas D. Goodman. 1990; 258 pp. ISBN 0-253-20566-2 
$12.95 ($15.95 postpaid) from Indiana University Press, 601 N. 
Morton Street, Bloomington, IN 47405; 800/842-6796 
implying that the interior trance di- 
mension touches an objective reality 
that we all share. —Jon Lebkowsky 
the influence of culture on visual percep- 
tion. There are those who would argue 
that the reason for the agreement is that 
the source of the visions is the body itself: 
We all have the same nervous system; 
therefore, everything else being equal, that 
is, the posture and the religious trance, we 
of course have the same visions. It seems 
to me that those holding this view contend, 
taking a simile from technology, that the 
source of the radio program is the set. As 
should be clear by now, | take a contrary 
position and consider the source of the vi- 
sions to be the alternate reality. The body 
is tuned by the posture in the trance in 
such a manner that we are enabled to ex- 
perience, to perceive a certain part or as- 
pect of the other dimension. 
"Drumming at the Edge of Magic 
An inquiry into the origins of drumming and the 
consciousness-altering nature of percussion. —Jonathan E, 
e 
A large part of music’s power and pleasure, says Blacking, comes 
from its ability to reconnect the player and the listener with the 
deeper rhythms they're unconscious of. It accomplishes this by tak- 
ing us out of the clock-ticking world of ordinary time and into a spe- 
cial world of time that Blacking called virtual time. 
But how does a drum alter consciousness? That was the question I'd 
started with and now | thought | could see an answer shimmering 
beneath the data. My first thought had been that there was some- 
thing unique in the sound. Andrew Neher had seemed right in his 
theory that percussive noise played loudly over time eventually 
overwhelmed the hearing apparatus and this played a large part in 
inducing trance. The shamanic ritual, held in a small, enclosed space, 
seemed designed to enhance these percussive effects. In addition, 
the loudness of the drums would also activate the adrenals, flooding 
the body with adrenaline. 
Drumming at the Edge of Magic 
(A Journey into the Spirit of Percussion) 
Mickey Hart & Jay Stevens. HarperSanFrancisco, as) 
1990; 240 pp. ISBN 0-06-250374-X 
$19.95 ($22.70 postpaid) from HarperCollins 
Publishers/Direct Mail, PO Box 588, 
Dunmore, PA 18512; 800/331-3761 
1 
if 
Dholak and tin box. 
(India ca. 1980) 
Planet Drum 
When Mickey Hart appeared on a network TV show with a 
monk from the Gyuto Choir, the host asked what the drum- 
mer of the Grateful Dead and a Tibetan chanter have in 
common. “We're both in the transportation business," Hart 
replied. This book and music provide the opportunity to find 
out what he meant. —HLR 
e 
Divine Horsemen 
In the terminology of Voudoun, it is said that the loa “mounts” a 
person, or that the person is “mounted” by the loa. The metaphor is 
drawn from a horse and his rider and the actions and events which 
result are the expression of the will of the rider. Since the conscious 
self of the possessed person is, meanwhile, absent, he cannot and 
does not remember the events; he is not responsible, either for 
good or for bad; and he cannot, as a person, himself benefit from 
that possession. The function and purpose of such divine manifesta- 
tion is the reassurance and instruction of the community. 
The drummer, apparently impervious to the embattled anguish of 
the person, persists relentlessly; until, suddenly, the violence ceases, 
the head of the person lifts, and one recognizes the strangely ab- 
stracted eyes of a being who seems to see beyond whatever he 
looks at, as if into or from another world. The loa, which the song 
had been invoking, has arrived. —Maya Deren 
Planet Drum 
(A Celebration of Percussion and Rhythm) 
Mickey Hart, Fredric Lieberman & D. A. Sonneborn. 
HarperSanFrancisco, 1991; 224 pp. ISBN 0-06-250397-9 
$24.95 ($27.70 postpaid) from HarperCollins Publishers/Direct Mail, 
PO Box 588, Dunmore, PA 18512; 800/331-3761 
From trance to plants: 
see Plant Powers, p. 107 
Hearing Solar Winds 
The technique of overtone singing (es- 
pecially as practiced in Mongotia and 
Tibet) coaxes the harmonics out of 
their timbral hiding places in the hu- 
man voice to produce eerie flute-like 
tones, or growling bassoons in the sub- 
harmonic series. One who hears this 
phenomenon for the first time can 
scarcely believe it: a single human 
voice is singing chords. 
David Hykes was the first of a wave 
of musical explorers who brought this 
technique to Western music in the 
1970s. Hearing Solar Winds, recorded 
in 1983, remains a classic of contem- 
porary music 
| remember being seized by this music 
and strapped onto an implacable 
cosmic roller coaster moving in slow 
motion, and not without its moments 
of darkness and horror, until | was fi- 
nally precipitated into zero G, a vast 
space of 
luminous darkness and total 
serenity. This music aspires to some- 
thing far beyond overtone singing for 
its own sake, There is no doubt about 
the power of this recording to alter 
consciousness, as testified by its 
ubiquitous presence at diverse human 
potential workshops. Many listeners 
report profound healing experiences 
from Hearing Solar Winds. Yet unlike 
most “New Age” music, with which 
it is usually grouped in record stores, 
it has a compositional depth and an 
uncompromisingly radical exploratory 
quality. —Joseph Rowe 
Hearing Solar Winds 
(The Harmonic Choir, 
David Hykes, Director) 
Cassette: Ocora 4558607, $12.98 ($16.48 
postpaid); CD: Ocora 558607, $18 ($21.50 
postpaid) from Harmonia Mundi, 
2037 Granville Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 
90025-6103; 310/478-1311 ext. 119, 
fax 310/996-1389 
| Mongolie: Maison des Cultures du Monde (dis- 
tributed by Auvidis), 10] Bvd. Raspail, 75006 
ole Earth 
| 
Paris, France. 
The Gyuto Monks: Windham Hill Records. 
| 
| 
| Sufi Music of Turkey: Kudsi Erguner & 
| Siileyman Erguner. CMP Records, PO Box | 129, 
| 5166 Kreuzau, Germany. 
