16 Whole Systems 
NATURAL HISTORY 
O b e a Nn atu ral SG in the broadest sense, 
is simply to give everyday reality its due. Birds before broadsides. 
Percepts before concepts. We are inclusive, not exclusive. The ex- 
plorer-hunter naturalist lineage is long: Isaak Walton, Humboldt, Darwin, 
Bates, Wallace, Lewis and Clark, Audubon . 
. 
. their Pleistocene instincts at 
home in civilized prose. Even though Melville called his whalea 
fish, the greatest 
fictional work of natural history in America is undoubtedly Moby Dick. 
Naturalist-poets include Walt Whitman, Emily Dickinson, Robert Frost, 
Robinson Jeffers, and Gary Snyder. The naturalist-philosophers sport 
Emerson, Thoreau, Leopold, and a host of contemporaries. It’s a great 
eccentric tradition of wild walks, wild intellect, and a tactile love of accuracy. 
—Peter Warshall. = 
== 
83S 
Natural History 
Natural 
History 
Magazine 
Alan P. Ternes, 
Editor. $28/year 
(12 issues) from 
The latest news in both cultural- and natural- 
history happenings. Weird and wonderful 
nature stories with an intelligence that sepa- 
rates it from the commercialized “eco-media.” 
Includes some of the best scientist-naturalist 
Ay Saye 
. 
arian, 
prose writers. An equal value to kids and 
51593-2091 
adults. —PW and George Putz 
The Norton Book of Nature Writing 
raptures and banquets. After a rest that 
varies in length, whether the eggs be laid 
or not, a second male is accepted and then 
devoured like the first. A third succeeds 
The call of nature. The endless dia- 
log between richness and repulsion. 
Spinoza says: “Nature abhors a vac- 
uum.” Tennessee Williams answers: 
A Natural History of Sex 
Courtship and mating keep the 
lineage alive. Here's a fun modem 
bestiary of beasts that change sex, eat 
their husbands in the act of love, pre- 
fer to clone than to mate with males, 
practice transvestism 
. .. —PW 
e 
Female moorhens fight among themselves, 
especially if one female approaches a court- 
ing pair. These fights are reminiscent of 
rooster fights, where the individuals lean 
back and rake at each other with their 
clawed feet. Again, heavy females win most 
fights. But what are they fighting for? If they 
form pairs, there is a male for every female. 
The hens fight for fat males. The fatter the 
male, the better the job he can do at nest 
initiation and incubation. 
On Nature. Get this book back in print! The 
finest crafters of nature and anti-nature (can that 
be?) prose. Wonderful biblio. Daniel Halpern. 
1986, North Point Press. 
A Species of Eternity. Out of print! The field 
guide to the origins of American maniacal natur- 
alists. If in print, it would have been the page’s 
feature. Joseph Kastner. 1977, Alfred A. Knopf. 
The Insect World of J. Henri 
Fabre. 
1991, Beacon Press. 
The Journal of Henry David 
Thoreau (Bradford Torrey & Francis 
H. Allen, Eds. 1906, Dover), The 
Natural History Essays (1989, 
Gibbs Smith), The Maine Woods 
(1988, Penguin), and Faith in a Seed 
(Bradley P. Dean, Editor. 1993, Island 
Press). Thoreau’s naturalist intensity 
"A vacuum is a hell of a lot better 
than some of the stuff that nature 
replaces it with.” An encyclopedic 
sampler from | 720 to right now of 
Anglo-European writers. —PW 
e 
| was curious to know what sort of re- 
ception a second male might expect from 
a recently fertilized female. The result of 
my enquiry was shocking. The Mantis, in 
many cases, is never sated with conjugal 
him, performs his function in life, is eaten 
and disappears. A fourth undergoes a like 
fate. In the course of two weeks | thus 
see one and the same Mantis use up seven 
males. She takes them all to her bosom and 
makes them all pay for the nuptial ecstasy 
with their lives. 
e 
By understanding the dependability of place, 
we can anchor ourselves as trees. 
One night, Jonas Ole Sademaki, a Maasai 
elder, and | sit around the fire telling sto- 
ries. Sparks enter the ebony sky and find 
their places among stars. 
“My people worship trees,” he says. “It 
was the tree that gave birth to the Maasai. 
Grasses are also trustworthy. When a boy 
is beaten for an inappropriate act, the boy 
falls to the ground and clutches a handful of 
grass. His elder takes this gesture as a sign 
of humility. The child remembers where 
the source of his power lies.” 
As | walk back to my tent, | stop and look 
up at the southern cross. These are new 
constellations for me. | kneel in the grasses 
and hold tight. 
A Natural 
History of Sex 
Adrian Forsyth 
1986; 192 pp. 
ISBN 09631591-8-6 
$10.95 ($14.95 post- 
paid) from Chapters 
Bookstore, 2031 
Shelburne Road, 
Shelburne, VT 05482 
The cleaner wrasse gets its food at tra- 
ditional spots known as cleaning stations. 
Other reef fish visit these stations, and the 
wrasse removes and eats their external 
parasites, such as copepods. Each station 
is lorded over by a dominant male that ex- 
cludes other males and dominates about 
half a dozen females. He also mates each 
female once daily. 
Maniacat Naturatist Book List 
is awesome. Here is inspiration. 
Darwin on Earthworms. The maniacal 
naturalist himself, setting the standard. 1976, 
Bookworm Publishing Co. 
Refuge. The moral dialogue of the Great Salt 
Lake and cancer. The most moving contem- 
porary “unnatural history.” Terry Tempest 
Williams. 1991, Vintage Books, Random House. 
Travels in Alaska and My First Summer in 
the Sierra (both John Muir. 1993, Penguin 
Books). The craggy prose of John Muir, mountain 
wildman and canny converter of America to 
landscape love. 
Curious Naturalists. How gulls and bees and 
sand wasps and jays reveal their world views. 
Community aesthetics and cognitive maps by this 
century’s most perspicacious. Niko Tinbergen. 
1984, University of Massachusetts Press. 
The Norton Book 
of Nature Writing 
Robert Finch & John Elder, Editors. 1990; 
921 pp. ISBN 0-393-02799-6 
$29.95 postpaid from W. W. Norton & 
Co./Order Dept., 800 Keystone Industrial 
Park, Scranton, PA 18512; 800/233-4830 
