Obviously, however all ideas expressed are 
not necessarily shared and belong first to 
those who first express them. We also 
gratefully affirm the fundamental natural law 
of freedom to self-medicate, and right of 
individual access to spiritual ritual and rite 
of passage. Our shared evolutionary 
imperative demands that individuals take 
responsibility for their own freedom — 
internal and external, lest we all slide a little 
deeper into ignorance, indifference, and 
tyranny. When the uses and properties of 
various plants are described, the informa- 
tion should be regarded and respected in 
the context of historical traditions and 
present-day experience. 
e 
Ultimately, we must face the question of 
how willing we are to accept the reality of 
other dimensions — not the lip service 
paid to heaven and hell by the monotheistic 
~ 
religions, but the possibility of immediate 
personal perception of other realms of ex- 
perience. Materialistic cultures are focused 
on the world, hence anything questioning 
materialism is perceived as a threat to their 
social reality construction and hence, their 
stability. Drug induced altered states of 
consciousness are labeled as illusions in our 
culture, hence dangerous, hence something 
to forbid at all costs. (Murderers have re- 
ceived lesser prison sentences than some 
people arrested with psychedelics in their 
possession.) This is group invalidation of 
individual experience, and might have some 
claim to validity if it weren’t for the fact 
that the credibility of our culturally-en- 
dorsed belief-system is now being 
eroded past the point of acceptance 
by rational minds. 
Creative Dreaming 
A compelling, lucid history of 
dreamwork throughout the centuries 
and around the world, Creative 
Dreaming introduces several different 
approaches to self-analysis, touches 
on the highest aspects of dreamwork 
— lucid dreaming and other methods 
for altering dreams as they happen — 
and offers practical advice on keeping 
dream diaries and developing dream 
control. —HLR 
e 
The best time to begin developing skill in 
dream recall is during an unpressured time 
in the morning when you awaken naturally 
(it will be from a REM period). If you have 
trouble recalling your dreams plan a time 
when you can spontaneously awaken and 
be unhurried. 
When you awaken from a dream, lie still 
and allow the dream images to flow back 
into your mind. If no images come, let 
yourself run through the important people 
in your life; visualizing them may trigger 
association to your recent dream. 
When dream recall is complete in one body 
position, move gently into other sleeping 
positions to see whether you have additional 
dream recall in these positions. Always 
move gently into any recording position. 
REAMWORK consists of remembering 
| 
your dreams and seeking to understand 
| 
them. There’s nothing esoteric or psy— 
chologically dangerous about it. It’s sim— 
| 
ply a matter of taking alook at what’s right 
in front of your mind’s eye, and using what you see to | 
improve your life. We all know how to turn on televisions, 
ride elevators and open pop-top cans, but nobody teaches 
us how to dream. The situation 
is changing rapidly, 
however, because the most important “secret” of 
dreamwork is becoming more and more widely known: 
| 
anyone who has tried to remember dreams and under- 
| 
stand their meaning has discovered that the ability to 
| 
obtain valuable knowledge is not a gift or talent but a skill, 
like tying your shoelaces, reading a book, or driving a car. 
Your basic tools for dreamwork are a pad of paper anda 
pen with a small flashlight taped to it, or a tape recorder, 
to record dream impressions, images, plots, and keywords 
in the middle of the night; a larger sketchbook or notebook 
to expand, amplify, and interpret those midnight jottings; 
and some knowledge of what to do with your dreams once 
you've learned to recall and record them. Fortunately, the 
| 
secrets of the ages are now out in paperback. — HLR 
MAN 
RAY 
Record your dreams whenever they 
come to you, immediately, later in the 
day, or several days later. 
Creative Dreaming 
Patricia Garfield. Ballantine Books, 1985; 
256 pp. ISBN 0-345-33144-3 
$4.95 ($6.95 postpaid). Random House/ 
Order Dept., 400 Hahn Road, 
Westminster, MD 21157; 800/733-3000 
Learning 
DREAMWORK 
Dreamgropers’ Toolkit 
You're walking down the street where you live, heading toward 
home at sunset. Your house is over there on the left at the end of 
the block, with the sun going down behind it. But something's 
wrong with this scene — the sun can't be going down there, 
because it's due East! 
Hm. Could this be a dream? 
| If you're lucky, such a moment can trigger a full awakening of your 
mind within the dream, while the body remains fast asleep. If the 
| body really continues sleeping, and the mind really wakes up, then 
it's a lucid dream. Typically, at this moment of realization, every- 
Stephen LaBerge, the foremost scientific researcher of 
lucid 
| dreams, founded the Lucidity Institute, where the DreamLight was 
| developed. Had you been using the Dreamlight in the above sce- 
nario, you might been pushed toward lucidity by seeing the sun 
flashing on and off — a typical translation of the flashing lights in 
the comfortable mask you are wearing in physical reality. These 
lights are cues that the Dreamlight's computer has detected sig- 
nificant REM, evidenced that you are in the midst of a dream. The 
package is light, small, extremely well designed, and far more reli- 
able than its competitors 
| The Lucidity Institute tends to be biased toward scientific ap 
proaches to lucid dreaming, and there is little questioning of the 
extent of the dreamer's “control” over events in lucid dreams, or 
of the positive value of lucid dreams in all contexts. 
A deeper psy- 
chological approach and discussion of other viewpoints is available 
in archived issues of 
Lucidity Letter (or simply Lucidity), 
a superb 
but now defunct publication whose back issues contain onginal 
material on lucid dreaming unavailable anywhere else. The Mon- 
roe Institute also provides a different perspective, considering “out- 
| of-body” experiences a separate category from lucid dreams 
—Joseph Rowe 
Lucid Dreaming: Stephen LaBerge. Ballantine Books, 1986; 304 
pp. ISBN 0-345-33355-1 $4.95 ($6.95 postpaid) from Random 
House/Order Dept., 400 Hahn Road, Westminster, MD 21157; 
800/733-3000. 
Lucidity Institute: Membership $35/year (includes newsletter). 
2555 Park Boulevard, Suite 2, Palo Alto, CA 94306, 800/465-8243. 
Monroe Institute: PO Box 505, Lovingston, VA 22949; 
800/541-2488. 
| 
Press. A resource 
Dreams and 
Spiritual Growth 
(A Christian 
Approach to 
Dreamwork): Louis 
M. Savary, Patricia 
H. Berne & 
Strephon K. Will- 
iams. 1984, Paulist 
for anyone who is 
interested in the 
spiritual aspects 
of dreamwork. 
Symbols of 
Transformation 
in Dreams: Jean 
Clift & Wallace 
Clift. 1986, Cross- 
road Publishing Co. 
A clear, short, non- 
technical account of 
Jungian ideas about 
dream symbols as 
harbingers of psy- 
chological and spiri- 
tual transformation. 
| thing leaps into vivid full-color 3D hallucinatory reality — a reality 
| 
| of your own creation — or is it? 
37] 
