Earthwatch 
Would you like to participate in a real scientific 
expedition? Join one of the many sponsored by 
this group. You have to pay them instead of them 
paying you, but you'll leam a lot, and you'll actually 
be doing something useful with your time and 
(tax-deductible) money. You get to choose from a 
wide range of expeditions, here and abroad, un- 
dertaking projects in rainforest ecology, archaeol- 
ogy, geology, marine sciences, life sciences, and so- 
cial sciences. You're going to work hard, though 
most schedules include time off for local explora- 
tions. I've heard few complaints. Fellowships may 
be available. You must be | 6-85, and in appropri- 
ate health. Tempting! —J. Baldwin 
e 
Island Rain Forest (Ilha do Cardoso, Brasil) 
Field Conditions: Teams, working in shifts day 
and night, will search for caiman nests; ob- 
serve the animals’ behavior; record the lo- 
cal habitat; map streams, swamps, and 
other topographic features; photograph ani- 
mals and their habitats; and enter data in 
computers. They will also set traps for 
other reptiles and amphibians, collect any 
animals that are caught (snakes will be 
handled only by staff members), and help 
set up a photographic index of the island’s 
species. 
Summer 
volunteers 
in the 
Albion 
Mountains 
gently 
transport 
a study 
subject. 
Teams will stay in research station houses 
and dormitories, which have some electric- 
ity, running water, and flush toilets. Meals 
will be prepared by station staff. Because 
the island is so close to shore and major 
cities, there will also be occasional access 
to restaurants. Music makes up a regular 
part of the Brazilian culture and the life of 
Nomadics 
ECOTOURISM 
Earthwatch: Membership $25/year (in- 
cludes 6 issues of Earthwatch Magazine). 680 
_ 
Mount Auburn Street, PO Box 403, 
Watertown, MA 02272; 800/776-0188. 
the camp as well. Both Moulton and 
Magnussen play instruments, as do most 
of the Brazilian staff members; volunteers 
are encouraged to join in. Related interests: 
photography, mapping, computers, biology, 
drawing. 
ees Great Resource 
Ecotourism (A Guide for Planners and 
Managers): Kreg Lindberg & Donald E. 
The New Internationalist 
Travelers leave their marks not only on 
d region's ecology, but on its culture as 
well. The New Internationalist cel- 
ebrates travel, but it also looks at is- 
sues that tourist bureaus would rather 
sweep under the rug: children stolen 
from their mothers in Honduras for 
adoption in the US, the “sex-tourism” 
industry in Asia, “sewer children” in 
Colombia, deforestation in Nepal. Con- 
tributors include local activists, environ- 
mental experts, travel writers. It's an 
inspiration for traveling with a social 
conscience. —Richie Unterberger 
e 
“The trouble is, the Indians have become 
mercenary, changing their traditional 
dances for the tourists’ benefit,” says 
Marcos Chavez, Paraguayan vice-consul in 
Sao Paulo. “The trouble with the Indians is 
that they don’t do any work, they don’t 
produce any wealth, they bring backward- 
ness,” says Bartolome Quinonez, former di- 
rector of Paraguay’s international airline 
LAP. These declarations come from two of 
the people most responsible for promoting 
the tourist trade of a country unique in 
South America for institutionalizing its in- 
digenous heritage. The Paraguayan currency 
is the Guarani; Guarani is taught in schools 
and, alongside Spanish, constitutes the sec- 
ond national language. 
Their statements expose an essential ambi- 
guity. The fact is that South American gov- 
ernments exhort visitors to discover their 
countries’ picturesque Indian villages and 
unspoilt villages, while doing everything in 
their power to dispossess their indigenous 
peoples and destroy their forests. Them- 
selves thoroughly colonized by Northern 
values, and with an instintive belief that “if 
the gringos are prepared to pay to see it, it 
must be good,” South America’s urban 
elites pay lip service to the need to pre- 
serve the “purity” of the noble savage’s cul- 
ture to the point where many of them ac- 
tually start to believe it. Their traditional 
attitude to Indians as an irritating obstacle 
to “development,” however, remains essen- 
tially unchanged. 
Vice-consul Chavez insists that there is an 
“enormous potential market” for tourism 
based on “getting close to indigenous cul- 
ture” in his country. The official tourist 
board’s brochure Paraguay, land of sunshine 
is careful to include a picture of a smiling 
Indian girl. It describes the monumental Je- 
suit mission ruins in southern Paraguay as 
“witnesses of the civilizing, spiritual and cul- 
tural legacy of Paraguay from the nineteenth 
century.” This version of the country’s his- 
tory is based not on “getting close to indig- 
enous culture,” but on forcing the Indians to 
“get close” to European culture. 
e 
The brochure is silent on the continuing 
presence of this legacy in the Chaco scru- 
blands of western Paraguay. The Chaco is 
“a vast plain crossed by numerous non- 
navigable rivers... the habitat of an abun- 
dant fauna.” The accompanying photograph 
shows a flock of jaboru storks; there is no 
The New Internationalist 
$42/year (12 issues). PO Box 1143, 
Lewiston, NY 14092; 416/946-0406, fax 
416/946-0410 
mention of the indigenous Chamococo and 
Maskoi people who still die from unfamiliar 
diseases, shock and despair in the “cat- 
echism camps” to which they have been 
brought for “civilizing” by the Florida-based 
New Tribes Mission. 
e 
Just months before Hurricane Iniki we 
scored a victory when a large tour-boat in- 
dustry on the north shore of Kauai was 
shut down after years of opposition to its 
environmental and cultural effects. The 
State has begun to identify beaches and 
shore areas that are exceeding capacity and 
where conflicts between residentsd and 
visitors continue to escalate. 
In the last ten years Hawaii has gone 
through a spurt of speculative development 
in which mega-resorts have been built by 
the dozen on each major island. They were 
based in part on the fantasies of the Hawaii 
Visitors Bureau, which projected a doubling 
of the number of visitors to Hawaii from 
six to eleven million by the year 2000. 
These projections were made by political 
bureaucrats indifferent to the impact of 
tourism and consumed with greed. While 
the hotels go up, community infrastructure 
such as sewage, roads, housing and schools 
are already 10 to 15 years behind current 
community needs. 
Hawkins, Editors. 1993; 175 pp. 
ISBN 0-963633 1-0-4 
$14.95 postpaid. The Ecotourism Society, 
PO Box 755, North Bennington, VT 05257; 
802/447-2121, fax 802/447-2122. 
But in the aftermath of the Gulf War de- 
mand has collapsed. On Kauai almost every 
hotel has had ownership transfers or filed 
for bankruptcy. 
After a hurricane as destructive as Iniki you 
realize how quickly we can get in touch 
with deeper community values. Pacific cul- 
tures are based on a high level of environ- 
mental awareness. The relationship of 
people to land and of people to sea is spiri- 
tual and religious. When tourism takes 
away the land, the fishing grounds or the 
right to gather food or medicine the Ha- 
waiian loses a primary means of livelihood 
and — more important — meaning in life. 
| 
| 
339 
