Outback Australia Handbook 
A guide to-one of the most sparsely 
e 
2 
=3 
: 
populated and geologically fascinating 
regions on earth, Outback Australia 
Handbook covers the region's parks, 
historical reserves, and wildemess 
areas while providing an historical 
context for the understanding of 
Aboriginal history, culture, and mythol- 
ogy. Several dozen detailed maps aid 
bushwalkers and adventurers. There 
are also chapters on such cities as 
Perth and Adelaide that are useful as 
both launching points and respites. 
—Richie Unterberger 
Adventuring in Australia 
Besides the Outback, Australia is 
abundant with natural beauty and in- 
terest: the Great Barrier Reef, tropical 
rainforests, a diverse wildlife popula- 
tion. The Sierra Club's Adventuring in 
Australia is devoted to such outdoor 
activities as backpacking, scuba diving, 
and river rafting. Written from an en- 
gagingly personal perspective, it’s the 
most wide-ranging reference for enjoy- 
ing the country's natural resources. 
—RU 
e 
The best way to see the reef is to dona 
mask and join the fishes. The usually good 
to excellent water visibility and the fact 
most of the reef life can be found in the 
first 10 meters under the surface make 
snorkeling ideal throughout the reef. The 
only prerequisites are the ability to swim 
and reasonable judgment. 
Snorkeling and diving increase the quality of 
your reef experience a hundredfold over 
glass-bottom boats and subs. The snorkeler 
becomes part of the underwater world, and 
fish are less apt to go into hiding, which of- 
ten happens when a glass-bottom boat or 
submarine maneuvers overhead. 
For the less aquatically inclined visitor, 
there are glass-bottom boats, motorized 
floating observatories called submarines or 
semisubmersibles, and underwater observa- 
tories. 
e 
My trip to the Cradle Mountain Lodge 
ranks at the top of the most memorable 
wildlife experiences of my life. | was driving 
at night on the final stretch of the dirt road 
and was slowed to 5 kilometers per hour 
by the abundance of wildlife hopping, scur- 
rying, and dive-bombing past my car. 
Rufous wallabies stood huddling in the cen- 
ter of the road, while quolls scurried across 
the roadway, one holding a small rodent in 
If you want to climb The Rock, you are sup- 
posed to be in excellent physical condition 
(a real chuckle once you check out some of 
the climbers). Also be aware that the higher 
slopes are often hit by gale-force winds 
(climbers have died while trying to retrieve 
a Foster's visor). Check with the park rang- 
ers for necessary equipment. Another op- 
tion is the three- to four-hour walk around 
the base, fringed with caves, waterholes, 
and a variety of desert vegetation. 
The Olgas (Kata Tjuta, or “Many Heads,” 
to the Aborigines) lie about 27 km to the 
west and are also part of the protected 
Tasmanian devil, the largest living (assuming 
the Tasmanian tiger is extinct) marsupial 
predator, ran across the road ina slow, 
rocking-horse gait. Minutes later two more 
devils, chewing on a wallaby carcass, were 
caught in my headlights. 
| made it to the lodge around midnight and 
was greeted by owners Simon and Anne 
Currant. When | explained I'd seen a Tas- 
manian devil and a number of other crea- 
tures, Simon grinned. “So, you like devils. 
We walked to the back porch and there 
were about five devils eating table scraps 
left out for them. 
” 
Adventuring in Australia 
Eric Hoffman. 1990; 482 pp. 
ISBN 0-871 56-742-3 
$14.95 ($17.95 postpaid) from Sierra Club 
Store Orders, 730 Polk Street, San 
Francisco, CA 94109; 800/935-1056 
Uluru National Park. These huge rocks, just 
as old and once much larger than Ayers 
Rock, are a jumble of more rounded mono- 
liths, separated by gorges, valleys, and 
chasms. Many visitors enjoy exploring the 
Olgas more than the Rock because they 
have more hidden areas to discover, are a 
bit less intimidating, and less touristed. 
Outback Australia Handbook 
Marael Johnson. 1992; ISBN 0-918373-79-4 
$15.95 ($19.45 postpaid) from Moon 
Publications, Inc., PO Box 3040, Chico, 
CA 95927; 800/345-5473, fax 916/345-675 | 
Hawaii, Naturally 
In welcome contrast to gaudy bro- 
chures extolling opportunities for golf 
and cocktails in Crass Entertainment 
Hawaii, this book guides us to what's 
left of Incredible Natural Wonder 
Hawaii. All the parks are there in 
detail, including the ones overrun by 
tourists (of which you are one — the 
author realistically recognizes that 
Cliche Hawaii certainly exists). But 
along with access to the obvious are 
the less well-known places, even some 
favored mostly by locals. Hawaiian 
environmental organizations and their 
activities are listed. The whereabouts 
of botanical gardens, campgrounds, 
and even health-food stores are re- 
vealed. The enticing descriptions of 
hiking trails alone are enough to invite 
mad “stuff-it” phone calls to mainland 
bosses. Ironically, the book is so tempt- 
ing, it will likely draw even more tour- 
ists, however eco-righteous, to the 
islands. Sigh. —J. Baldwin 
e 
Shirakawa Motel: Billing itself as “The South- 
ernmost Motel in the U.S,” the Shirakawa 
is well known for its quaint setting, clean 
rooms, and budget prices. It is located in 
Kau district, near the road to South Point. 
The kindly Japanese woman who owns and 
runs the place cares for her guests like she 
does for her flower garden. The motel is 
situated on the makai side of Mamalahoa 
Highway (Hwy 11), about a mile west of 
Naalehu. Contact them at: Shirakawa Mo- 
tel, P. O. Box 467, Naalehu, Hawaii 96772. 
808/929-7462. 
Orner Great Resources 
Hawaii Trails: Kathy Morey. 1992. 
Wilderness Press. 
Bushwalking in Australia: John Chapman 
and Monica Chapman. 1992. Lonely Planet. 
Hidden Hawaii: Ray Riegert. 1993. 
Ulysses Press. 
Paddling Hawaii: Audrey Sutherland. 1988. 
e 
Nechung Drayang Ling — Wood Valley 
Temple: In the early 1900s Japanese sugar 
workers in Kapapala/Wood Valley Camp 
built a Buddhist temple that was subse- 
quently abandoned in the 1950s, when 
workers moved to nearby Pahala. In 1973 
the temple was restored as the residence 
of Nechung Rinpoche, the Tibetan lama of 
Nechung Dorje Drayang Ling Monastery. 
He attracted a devoted following in Hawaii. 
A second temple was moved from Pahala 
to Wood Valley to serve as a retreat cen- 
ter for the growing Buddhist community. In 
1980 the Dalai Lama visited and dedicated 
the center. The facilities now serve indi- 
vidual travelers, community and church 
groups, workshop organizers, and others 
who seek a quiet atmosphere. Dormitory 
rooms and private quarters can accommo- 
date a maximum of 27 persons. The rates 
are quite reasonable (around $1 5/night), 
the atmosphere is certainly peaceful, and 
there are numerous opportunities for in- 
volvement in retreat activities (meditation, 
yoga, workshops, Hawaiian dance and 
crafts, etc.). To reach the temple/hostel, 
proceed north on the Wood Valley Camp/ 
Kapapala road, located off Mamalahoa High- 
way (Hwy | 1) in Pahala, Kau district. The 
temple is marked by signboards at the end 
of the Kapapala Road. Contact: Nechung 
Drayang Ling, P. O. Box 250, Pahala, Hawaii 
96777. 808/928-8539. 
“i 
HAwaAn 
4 
NATURALLY 
Hawaii, Naturally 
David Zurick. 1990; 206 pp. 
ISBN 0-89997-108-3 
$12.95 postpaid from Wilderness Press/ 
Order Dept., 2440 Bancroft Way, Berkeley, 
its mouth. Bennett's wallabies bounded ev- 
ery which way. The numbers were as- 
tounding. My real excitement came when a 
The Mountaineers. 
Maui Trails: Kathy Morey. 1991. 
Wilderness Press. 
CA 94704; 800/443-7227 
