A nd th 
Here is the best of what I’ve found and learned since my son Gabe became 
seriously ill. Happily, today Gabe is doing great. These tools helped our family 
get far enough to be able to say that with gusto. —Phil Catalfo 
en there is life-threatening illness (or injury), or the loss of a loved one. 
We know death is the ultimate denouement of this escapade, but we 
= 
are never prepared for it to intrude upon our lives, and so we go about 
our business as if its specter were not always there. We don’t know what to 
do; we cannot know what to do, until we must know what to do. 
Family 
CRISIS, PART II 
OTHER 
Famity Crisis 
Resources 
You Don’t Have to Die 
(One Family's Guide to 
Surviving Cancer): Geralyn 
& Craig Gaes & Philip Bashe. 
1992, Villard Books. 
HOW TO COPE: 
A [ LIST FOR FAMILIES 
~ Take it as it comes. The first days (and especially the first 
hours) after a diagnosis of life-threatening illness are suf- 
fused with shock and denial. You feel like an actor on the 
set of the wrong movie. | was physically and emotionally en- 
ervated for a day or two, Then | allowed myself to feel my 
own grief and fear — or | could no longer hold it back — 
and | reinhabited my own body, my own feelings. This was 
the beginning of my being able to respond. 
~ Reach out. Call upon your personal support network of 
relatives, friends, and neighbors in more mundane ways — 
for childcare, meals, transportation, the myriad everyday 
things that can seem impossible in the context of medical 
emergency. If you don't have such a network, start building 
one now: you won't earn any points for going it alone. 
Y Pray. | can't tell you how to do it; | can’t even explain 
how | do it. But | can tell you to do it. I've heard parents say 
that they trust in God, that their child is in God's hands, 
that God will heal their child. | don’t dispute that, but | take 
d more moderate view. | believe prayer has helped my son, 
as it has helped me and my whole family — and | see it as 
something to add to the complement of available tools, be- 
ginning with medical treatment. Prayer puts you in touch 
with reservoirs of strength and will you probably didn’t know 
you had. And the prayers of others can create an ex- 
panded community of concern whose love will support you 
ineffably but tangibly. 
¥ Arm yourself with information. There are many sources 
of good information about the illness you're confronting; in 
fact, the profusion of literature can be daunting at first. Al- 
low yourself some time to get a sense of the literature's 
scope — what doesn’t seem clear at first reference will 
probably come together the second or third time around. 
The American Cancer Society, the Leukemia Society, and 
other organizations have scores of good books and pam- 
phlets on specific diseases, chemotherapy, emotional reper- 
cussions, medical research, and so on; much of this litera- 
ture is free (and may have been given to you at your hospi- 
tal). The National Cancer Institute has a toll-free number 
for questions, and also provides a vanety of helpful litera- 
ture: 800/4-CANCER. The ACS offers a range of services to 
patients, from transportation to information on where to get 
a wig; their number is 800/ACS-2345. Beyond that, any 
good public library will have an encyclopedia, a card cata- 
log, and a Reader's Guide to Periodical Literature; a medical 
library is even better. And, of course, the person to whom 
you can tum first and most should be your doctor. 
V Keep files on the bills and insurance claims. Accept the 
fact that you now have a new part-time job: dealing with 
the medical paper work. Review your policy thoroughly, and 
don't hesitate to call the insurer with questions. (In fact you 
should do that before a health crisis comes up.) Carefully 
read every piece of paper that comes in from the hospital, 
doctors, other providers, and insurance company. 
Lobby. You may find, once you've settled into a treatment 
routine and you're dealing better with the fact of the illness, 
that you'd like to see some change made in a service or 
policy. Identify and express your needs clearly, logically, re- 
spectfully, and with a reasonable, well-articulated vision of 
what you'd like to see. Talk with other parents to compare 
notes; talk with staff 
to raise the issue initially and see what 
| 
might be possible informally. It may be necessary to write a 
formal letter to someone in a position of authority. It's best 
to control your emotions: if you initiate a discussion in a 
rage, the other party is likely to become defensive and not 
hear your complaint in any productive sense. We threw out 
the vitriolic language in the first draft, and took care to ac- 
knowledge the excellent care the hospital provides and our 
gratitude for it. —PC 
Listen. My Child Has a Lot of Living to Do 
This somber anthology offers a vision 
of what truly foresighted care for seri- 
ously and terminally ill children, and 
their families, would look like. It is strik- 
ing on several counts: |) It is British; its 
experiences and insights are told from 
the perspective of the British system, 
which assumes (for one thing) that ev- 
eryone has an unquestionable right to 
health care. 2) The cold touch of 
death pervades the book: the haunting 
poems of a girl who succumbed to 
cancer at seventeen, the fact that sev- 
eral authors have themselves lost chil- 
dren, the pieces on caring for dying 
children and bereavement. 3) The 
scope is broad, covering a range of ill- 
nesses besides cancer (cystic fibrosis, 
congenital heart disease, children with 
AIDS) and taking into account the 
unique roles of doctors, hospice work- 
ers, home care nurses, and family 
members — leading the reader to fo- 
cus not on the disease itself, but on 
the thoroughness and coordination of 
the response to it. 
| don't know of an equivalent book for 
American families and the health care 
professionals they rely on. If in fact 
there isn't one, there damn sure ought 
to be, —PC 
e 
Mercifully, malignant disease in children is 
not common. This does not help the gen- 
eral practitioner. It is most unusual for the 
general practitioner to make the diagnosis 
after seeing the child only once. Malignancy 
is not, nor should it be, the first thing that 
comes into a general practitioner’s mind 
when he first sees a child with what might 
be a minor complaint. Malignant disease can 
present in an enormous number of ways — 
vague ill health, a niggling pain, a limp. | have 
heard many stories from parents who have 
taken their child to their general practitio- 
ner on several occasions when nothing 
seems to have been found, nor action 
taken. Sometimes several weeks, even 
months have passed before the diagnosis 
has been made. Sadly, when this happens 
the general practitioner is regarded as in- 
competent by the family. One hears the 
complaint, “If only he had made the diagno- 
sis sooner.” It is a difficult situation for the 
general practitioner and can put great 
strain on his relationship with the child and 
family from the start. 
Listen. My Child Has a Lot 
of Living to Do 
J. D. Baum, et al., Editors. 1990; 225 pp. 
ISBN 0-19-261961-6 
$15.95 ($18.95 postpaid) from Oxford Uni- 
versity Press/Order Dept., 2001 Evans 
Road, Cary, NC 27513; 800/451-7556 
When a Friend Dies 
This small, understated book has the tone of a wise 
and empathetic friend who appears at precisely the 
moment when nothing less will do. It is an eye-opener 
for teens who are grappling, probably for the first 
time, with the death of someone dear to them, some- 
one like them, someone who was presumably immor- 
tal until that tumed out not to be so. 
And it is an eye-opener for their par- 
ents, who are of course concemed for 
their offspring's emotional well-being. 
When a Friend Dies is full of poignant 
quotes from other grieving teens, and 
contains short, helpful observations to 
help the young reader move through 
this grim terrain. 
A most compassion- 
ate book. —PC 
e 
“My parents are hovering over me and 
smothering me.” 
Most parents want to protect their children 
| 
from hurt, and what is more hurtful than 
the death of a friend? You're right about 
feeling that they can’t and shouldn't protect 
you from this hurt. You want to believe 
that you can handle it. When your parents 
hover, this makes you think that you can’t 
handle it. 
e 
Sometimes it may seem easier to stay fro- 
zen and just deny that you are even both- 
ered by what happened. Denying something 
| 
will not make it go away. Denying your 
feelings will only keep your hurts inside so 
they cannot come out and be healed. If a 
friend dies, it has to be hard on you. Try to 
admit it to yourself, and talk to someone 
understanding. 
When a Friend Dies 
(A Book for Teens About 
Grieving and Healing) 
Marilyn E. Gootman. 1994; 107 pp. 
ISBN 0-915793-66-0 
$7.95 ($10.95 postpaid) from Free Spirit 
Publishing, Inc., 400 First Avenue N., Suite 
616, Minneapolis, MN 55401; 800/735-7323 
219 
