Abbe Don archives four generations on CD-ROM. 
Communications 
210 
Family } 
Media 
and pS 
ak 
Photo CD 
s a child, | spent many weekends 
A 
listening to my great-grandmother 
tell stories while she taught me to 
make traditional Jewish foods. As an adult, 
| have used those family storytelling expen- 
ences as a context for creating interactive 
media. | recently began putting my family 
photographs onto Photo CD, a special CD 
format developed by Kodak for storing 
negatives or slides. Photo CDs run on 
many different types of CD-ROM players 
with Photo CD capability. | can take a 
Photo CD from my Macintosh, play it on 
my father's Windows machine, then head 
to my grandmother's house and play it on 
a Kodak Photo CD Player attached to her 
television. And images on Photo CD ex- 
pand the possibilities for storytelling and 
multimedia playfulness. 
You don't have to be an expert to begin 
the process. You can put up to 100 im- 
ages on one Photo CD. Obtain slides or 
negatives of your favorite family pictures. 
(Honzontal images match the aspect ratio 
of the computer and television screens; 
vertical pictures will appear sideways un- 
less you pay extra to have them rotated.) 
Many local Kodak photo finishers can put 
your negatives or slides on Photo CD. Ser- 
vice bureaus that specialize in Photo CD 
and related services often have lower 
prices (I use Palmer Photographic in Sacra- 
mento, CA: 916/441-3305). The cost 
ranges from 90 cents to $2 per image, de- 
pending on how many images are in your 
order and the scan quality you choose. 
“Consumer quality” is more than ad- 
equate, unless you plan to do extensive, 
high-resolution printing. 
You now have a reliable archival medium. 
Whether the pictures are on a computer 
screen or television, they often act as cata- 
lysts for reminiscing and passing on stories 
when the family gathers to view them. 
The following ideas, based on Macintosh 
software, suggest some possibilities for a 
foray into digital media creation. 
Digital Greeting Cards: An advantage of 
digital images is that you can easily cut, 
copy, paste, and rearrange images without 
damaging the onginals| Each Photo CD in- 
cludes an application called Slide Show 
Viewer. You can view each image from the 
CD sequentially, at a size of 160 x 120 
pixels. From Slide Show Viewer, you can 
open a picture with applications such as 
Adobe Photoshop. Once the image is 
open, you can resize it, change the colors, 
ddd text, or collage it with other pictures. 
Make a collage of family photographs, add 
d greeting, and save the file onto a floppy 
disk. Take it to a service bureau and print 
your annual holiday greeting card on pho- 
tographic paper. 
MAKING FAMILY MEDIA 
Digital Family Album: Using a paint pro- 
gram, create a template for a digital family 
album that can be viewed on screen or 
printed. You can tell a story through artful 
sequencing of the images. Play with the 
placement of pictures to juxtapose each 
sibling at various rites of passage, such as 
first steps, graduation or wedding. 
Collecting Oral Stories: Sit with your 
favorite family storyteller and look at the 
pictures on screen. Use the built-in micro- 
phone with audio-capture software (the 
audio palette that comes with HyperCard, 
or the capture feature in Adobe Premiere). 
Kid Pix and Adobe Premiere let you make 
slide shows with accompanying audio sto- 
nies and save them to your hard drive as 
QuickTime movies. As you view the slide 
show, prompt reticent family members to 
share their versions of 
the stories. 
Interactive Family Stories: Kodak has de- 
veloped another format called Photo CD 
Portfolio Disc. With it, you can assemble 
your family history, complete with pictures, 
stories, and music, onto a cross-platform 
CD package. Kodak's Create-It software, a 
separate application, is designed to sim- 
plify the authoring process for end-users, 
though it has a clumsy interface and still 
requires familiarity with the structuring of 
interactive presentations. After assembling 
your media and linking them in Create-It, 
take all your media files and the Create-It 
scripts to a local Sir Speedy Service Bureau 
to have the Photo CD Portfolio disc made. 
Some Sir Speedy franchises also offer pro- 
duction assistance and handholding, but 
the prices for this added service fluctuate 
wildly. Watch for prices to drop and for 
more flexible tools to emerge. -Abbe Don 
Kodak Photo CD: Kodak Information 
Center, 343 State Street, Rochester, NY 
14650; 800/242-2424, International 71 6/ 
724-1021, fax 716/781-5986. 
Sir Speedy: Call 800/854-8297 for the 
shop nearest you. 
KidPix Il: $39.95 ($43.95 postpaid). 
Broderbund Software/Customer Service, 
PO Box 6125, Novato, CA 94948-6125; 
800/521-6263. 
Create-It Photo CD Presentation 
Software: Requires System 7 or higher, 8- 
bit or 24-bit color monitor, 8 MB RAM rec- 
ommended, Kodak Photo CD-compatible 
CD-ROM XA drive. $219. Eastman Kodak 
Company, 343 State Street, Rochester, NY 
14650; 800/866-5533. 
Adobe PhotoShop 2.5: Suggested retail 
price $895; CD-ROM edition $995. 
Adobe Premier 3.0: Suggested retail 
price $795. 
Both from Adobe Systems Inc., 1585 
Charleston Road, PO Box 7900, Mountain 
View, CA 94039; 800/833-6687. 
Demystifying Multimedia 
This comprehensive book lives up to its 
title by focusing on the design and de- 
velopment process, rather than on spe- 
cific technologies. Illustrated case studies 
and interviews with seasoned producers 
serve as mini-apprenticeships, sharing 
insights that might otherwise take years 
to leam through trial and error. 
Pay close attention to the Design and 
Prototype chapter, regardless of the 
scale of your project — people too of- 
ten assume ‘there is too little time and 
money to spend on prototyping and 
move too quickly to production before 
they've adequately thought out their 
needs.” Check out the Roles section for 
a sense of 
how your current skills apply 
to multimedia. The Projects chapter 
succinctly describes the elements of 
common multimedia formats. 
The book's structural elements — 
pithy margin notes and quotes, cross- 
referencing, navigation bars, and iconic 
summaries — are themselves a case 
study in interactive design. -AD 
e 
The greater the level of interactivity, that is, 
the greater the audience involvement and 
control, the greater the effort required to 
design and produce a multimedia product. 
The level of interactivity also gauges com- 
plexity when estimating project duration 
and cost. Levels of interactivity include pas- 
sive, interactive or adaptive. 
Passive multimedia are presented in a linear 
manner like a slide show or videotape. 
Interactive multimedia allow users to con- 
trol the action and chart a personal course 
through the content. 
Adaptive multimedia are at the highest level 
of interactivity. They allow users to enter 
their own content and control how it is used. 
This content can be original text, illustrations, 
sound, video, commentary on content already 
in the project, or a new sequence or arrange- 
ment of the existing content. 
e 
Shaping the design for a multimedia project 
begins with an outpouring of ideas and cre- 
ative exploration of possibilities. The real 
strength of development is in collaboration, 
and begins with brainstorming. Brainstorm- 
ing is a dynamic process of generating ideas 
without judgment or constraint. The pur- 
pose of brainstorming is to open the spigot 
of creativity for everyone involved in the 
project: managers, artists, production staff, 
potential users, clients (if there are any). A 
good brainstorming session results in a col- 
lection of ideas and solutions that become 
the basis for designs and their prototypes. 
e 
Design and Prototype Tips 
* It is much easier to make changes in the 
prototype stage than in the production stage. 
* A design on paper is not enough. Most 
multimedia products require a working 
prototype or model for everyone to under- 
stand. 
* Don't spend a large amount of money until 
you know exactly what you are going to build. 
* Don’t get so attached to an idea or technique 
that you lose sight of the project’s purpose. 
* Allow team members creative autonomy but 
figure out ways for them to work together. 
+ User test early and often. 
aE IA 
MUTED 
saa 
fe 
Mav's 
Demystifyng Multimedia 
(A Guide for Multimedia Developers from 
Apple Computer, Inc.) 
Ken Fromm & Nathan Shedroff, Editors. 
1993; 284 pp. 
$30 ($33 postpaid); order #T1115LLA. 
APDA/Apple Computer, Inc., PO Box 319, 
Buffalo, NY 14207; 800/282-2732 (interna- 
tional calls: 716/871-6555), fax 716/871-6511 
Below are handy icons representing some of 
the topics covered in the book. 
Topics with specific 
relevance to 
animators. 
Topics with specific 
relevance to 
video professionals. 
co] 
L 
Topics with specific 
relevance to 
information designers, 
interface designers, 
or programmers. 
Topics with specific 
relevance to 
interactive education.. 
Ss 
Topics with specific 
relevance to 
writers, editors, and 
researchers. 
Orner Great Resources 
| Photograph To Remember/Fotografio 
Para Recordar: Pedro Meyer. Macintosh or 
Windows versions. The Voyager Company (see 
p. 269). An intimate portrait of photographer 
Pedro Meyer's parents as they confront their 
own mortality. 
A Celebration of American Family 
Folklore: Steven J. Zeitlin, Amy J. Kotkin & Holly 
Cutting Baker. 1982, 1992, Yellow Moon Press. A 
wonderful collection of American family folklore, 
with an excellent section on collecting your own. 
Guide to Genealogy Software: Donna 
Przecha & Joan Lowrey. 1993, Genealogical Pub- 
lishing Company. The most comprehensive re- 
view of genealogy software available for 
Macintosh, Windows and DOS, including 
shareware and commercial programs as well as 
an overview of discussion groups around the net. 
