286 
Political Tools 
ELECTORAL POLITICS 
Where the Money Is 
Prospecting the deep pockets of 
America's rich is a full-time occupation 
for nonprofits, politicians, and universi- 
ties. And because over 80 percent of 
all charity comes from individuals, 
there's a big market in books and 
magazines that tell you how to find 
essentials on the wealthiest. This is a 
guide to the guides, recently updated 
with a chapter on how to dig up 
addresses and stats online. 
If you are not yet a pro, you will either 
be amazed or appalled at the sheer 
number of these fundraising guides 
amassed, by the author during her 
years as the District of Columbia Pub- 
lic Library's head librarian. She includes 
elite lists, like Who's Who and the So- 
cial Register, as well as the many 
guides by those who scour resources 
like newspapers, annual reports, and 
(more than likely) garbage cans. 
Get the Facts on Anyone 
Welcome to the world of ‘back- 
grounding,” the systematic method- 
ology of researching the minutiae 
of individuals and entities. 
Not since Bibliography One have | 
seen such a thorough and comprehen- 
sive overview of research tools, sources 
and techniques. This concise, well- 
organized manual is oriented toward 
the amateur backgrounder, emphasiz- 
ing investigative endeavors that are 
legal and without potential ethical 
compromise. 
Backgrounding relies heavily on coop- 
eration from agencies and databases 
| with the pertinent information. Get 
the Facts describes the various styles 
of inquiry that may be most effective 
for specific situations. There is con- 
siderable information on accessing 
computer databases, whether those 
of periodicals or of goverment agen- 
cies. Specialized database vendors 
and other commercial providers 
are also detailed. 
The appendices and bibliography 
are particularly useful as further 
sources of information and accum- 
ulated research. —Jeff L. Thompson 
e 
Candidates for local, state, and federal 
office must file nominating petitions in 
order to enter a major party primary or 
get on the ballot as an independent or mi- 
nor-party candidate in the general election. 
Depending on which office the candidate is 
running for, thousands of signatures (with 
addresses) may be required. Party or cult 
leaders, themselves aloof from the work of 
petitioning, may sign to help fill up a sheet, 
thus revealing the address of their secret 
bunker. You might browse through the 
nominating petitions at the Board of Elec- 
tions to see how many addresses of known 
cult members you can find — this could 
give you a unique picture of their commu- 
nal living arrangements. 
Most of the other signatures will be useless 
to an investigator, since the signers will 
have no real connection to the party or 
The bibliography alone is worth the 
book's price; then, be ready to do the 
digging that's required, if you don't 
have the connections. —Peggy Lauer 
e 
When citizens speak of “the best Congress 
money can buy,” it is a concern for the 
politician as well as the voter. Many have 
recently spoken out against the fund raising 
which is necessary to stay in office. Thomas 
F. Eagleton (D-Missouri), when he retired 
from the Senate in 1986, said he was tired 
of “being on the phone, talking to fat cats 
that | don’t even know. Imploring them to 
send me X dollars, because somebody gave 
me a list of names and said these are rich 
people who might give you something. 
That’s the way it has become around here.” 
And he was the incumbent. 
e 
Because the incumbent has a definite ad- 
vantage, it is often more difficult to raise 
money for first-time women candidates. 
Now, a political network for Democratic 
women is available. EMILY’s List (an acro- 
nym for “Early Money Is Like Yeast” — it 
makes the dough rise) identifies and sup- 
ports viable candidates for key federal and 
statewide office. Since 1988 EMILY’s List 
has been the largest financial resource for 
women’s candidates in the country. In the 
1990 elections, its members contributed 
$1.5 million to 14 pro-choice Democratic 
women candidates. The network also pub- 
lishes a very useful booklet, Thinking of Run- 
ning for Congress: A Guide for Democratic 
Women. 
e 
Once a researcher gets hooked on online, 
it is impossible to retreat to manual search- 
ing for some types of searches. The case 
for such expenditure of funds is something 
which must be determined at each institu- 
tion, but online is becoming recognized as 
very useful in both large and small 
fundraising offices. An office which needs 
this information in a prompt manner and 
Where the Money Is 
(A Fund Raiser’s Guide to the Rich) 
Helen J. Bergan. 1992; 257 pp. 
ISBN 0-9615277-6-5 
$29.95 ($31.95 postpaid) from BioGuide 
Press, PO Box 16072, Alexandria, VA 
22302; 703/820-9045 
has a computer cannot ignore the potential 
of online. Offices which have used online 
from the beginning are amazed as more and 
more useful databases are offered each 
year. Some of these will b e discussed later 
in this chapter. 
You can make use of these marvelous new 
technologies even if you do not have a 
computer in your office, or a modem, or if 
you do not wish to do the search yourself. 
You may be able to get the information you 
need at a public or academic library if 
online searching is offered for patrons. 
candidate — they may have thought they 
were signing for George Bush. The chief 
importance of the petitions is that each 
sheet must be signed at the bottom by the 
person who gathered the signatures — the 
petition “witness.” Examining the witness 
signatures enables you to compile a list of 
those party supporters who are sufficiently 
committed that they will scurry around the 
street or ring doorbells to collect signa- 
tures. If the local Populist Party turned in 
200 petition sheets signed by a total of 
fourteen petition gatherers (say, for the 
Populist candidate for Congress), you may 
have gained thereby a list of virtually the 
entire active membership in your area. 
Get the Facts on Anyone 
(How You Can Use Public Sources 
to Check the Background of Any 
Person or Organization) 
Dennis King. Prentice Hall Press, 
1992; 208 pp. ISBN 0-13-351859-0 
$15 ($19 postpaid). Loompanics Unlimited, 
PO Box 1197, Port Townsend, WA 98368 
e 
If your target is a celebrity or an elected 
public official, newspapers and periodicals 
are the obvious place to start your search. 
But newspapers, especially local dailies, can 
also provide a wealth of easily accessible 
data about tens of millions of 
noncelebrities, from stockbrokers to mug- 
gers and from debutantes to shopping bag 
ladies. The back issues of America’s news- 
papers and periodical — and the knowl- 
edge and working files of the vast number 
of journalists working for these publications 
and for wire services — are a potential in- 
telligence resource to rival the combined 
assets of the CIA and KGB. 
The Candidate’s Handbook ... 
* Winning Local and State Elections 
These very different books work well 
as a pair. The Candidate’s Handbook 
presumes total inexperience on the 
part of candidate and supporters; its 
advice is rock-bottom basic and tends 
to suppose that the campaign budget 
is minuscule. It is roughly produced 
(self-published) and variously pithy 
and sketchy — the chapters look al- 
most like outlines. The last quarter or 
so is devoted to checklists, or short- 
hand recapitulations of critical points: 
excellent (photocopyable) cribsheets 
to keep the harried candidate and her 
amateur staff on target. 
Winning Elections addresses the cam- 
paign with more of everything: experi- 
ence, people, and money. Where one 
book has you gumming donuts with 
prospective constituents at the Deere 
dealership, the other dives right into 
voting behavior, demographics, and 
“percent-of-effort targeting.” It is much 
longer, heavier on theory, and more 
detailed. At that, the political-consult- 
ant authors cover a lot of territory and 
some of the coverage necessarily hits 
only the high spots. —[D 
e 
If there are only a few main thoroughfares 
leading into and out of the community, 
signs and posters along roadways can be 
very effective. Conversely, if there are too 
| He 
ich 
The Candidate’s Handbook 
For Winning Local Elections 
Harvey Yorke & Liz Doherty. 1992; 
110 pp. ISBN 0-9607598-0-8 
$5 ($6.05 postpaid) from Jane Yorke, 
495 Rowland Boulevard, Novato, CA 94947 
many main roads, the cost per sign and 
poster coverage becomes prohibitive. 
Residents of some communities have an in- 
tense dislike of campaign signs. Thus, even 
though they might be seen by a lot of vot- 
ers, they could have a negative effect on 
your campaign. 
The same might be true of bumper stickers 
and lawn signs. 
Probably the most cost-effective advertising 
is door-to-door delivery by volunteers of a 
good campaign brochure. All you pay is the 
cost of printing; then deliver only to homes 
of registered voters. 
—The Candidate’s Handbook 
e 
Most targeting is usually done by breaking 
votes down along party lines, especially in 
a general election. You can also measure 
voting behavior along ideological lines if 
candidates can be clearly identified as pro- 
gressive or conservative in the races that 
you choose for comparison. If initiative and 
referendum ballot issues play an important 
political role in your state, consider them 
in choosing comparison races. If the major 
theme of your campaign is very similar to 
a “yes” vote ona 
recent ballot measure, an 
analysis of the returns from that vote may 
provide valuable information. In this case, 
count the votes supporting the ballot mea- 
sure in the same manner as you would 
count votes for a candidate similar to 
yourself in a comparison race. 
—Winning Local and State Elections 
vow TO 
DO GET ACLEAR. 
now Ty OE AGE 
YOUR VOLLNT 
HAEFFER 
WOW 
ANN BEAUDRY # BOB SCH 
Winning Local 
and State Elections 
Ann Beaudry & Bob Schaeffer. Free Press, 
1986; 208pp. ISBN 0-02-902490-0 
$27.95 postpaid. Macmillan Publishing Co., 
100 Front Street, Riverside, NJ 08075-7500; 
800/257-5755 
