288 
Political Tools 
ELECTRONIC DEMOCRACY 
“A popular government without popular information, or the 
means of acquiring it, is but a prologue to a farce or a tragedy, or 
perhaps both. Knowledge will forever govern ignorance, and a 
people who mean to be their own governors mustarm themselves 
with the power which knowledge gives.” —James Madison 
killfully used, new communication media can amplify the power of 
grassroots groups to gather critical information, organize political action, 
sway public opinion and guide policymaking. You can learn about the 
tools themselves, from modems to BBS software, in Communications (pp. 
242-281). On the following pages, you can learn how to use these communi- 
cations devices as political tools. 
Most processes for 
guiding public policy 
or influencing elec- 
toral politics involve 
communication: 
meeting people, de- 
veloping ideas and 
arguments, 
per- 
suading people to 
adopt your views, 
enlisting support, 
negotiating com- 
promises, organiz- 
ing actions. Each of 
these spheres of ac- 
tion 
can 
be en- 
hanced through the 
use of computer- 
mediated commu- 
nications. Here are 
a few examples: 
Se we 
Matt Wuerker 
When the Colorado Springs, Colorado city council proposed a law that would 
effectively prohibit telecommuting, Dave Hughes, a retired West Point 
instructor and combat veteran of Korea and Vietnam, made his first foray into 
electronic democracy. 
“| was the only person to stand up in front of the planning commission and 
testify against the ordinance; the planners tabled the matter for thirty days. | 
brought the text of the ordinance home with me and put it on my computer 
bulletin board system,” Hughes recalls. Hughes sent letters to two local 
papers, inviting people to dial into his BBS and read the ordinance. At the next 
city council meeting, more than 175 citizens showed up to protest the 
ordinance. It was defeated. Hughes points out that “ordinarily, the effort 
needed to get involved with local politics is enormous. But the economy of 
effort that computers provided made it possible for me to mobilize opinion 
and action.” 
Ask Jim Warren what a computer database has to do with electoral politics, 
and he'll look at you like you just asked him why an aquarium needs water. A 
computer programmer and one of the original advocates of “computers for 
people,” Warren volunteered to help a candidate in a local Congressional race 
because he was outraged at the tactics of an incumbent. When Warren 
volunteered his services to the challenger, he realized that the political 
organization could gain a bonanza because he knew how to use publicly 
accessible computer data. Knowing exactly where your candidate’s support- 
ers are located, how they responded to recent communications from your 
campaign office, and how to contact them in geographic order, is information 
with high value on election day. (See “How to Use GIS in Electoral Campaigns,” 
p. 293.) 
Environmental activists (see Ecoactivism, p.!09) have demonstrated that it is 
possible to build global networks even if you don’t have the financial resources 
of a multinational corporation. Earthtrust is a worldwide nonprofit organiza- 
tion dedicated to resolving transnational environmental problems that are not 
addressed by local environmental movements. Earthtrust’s director, Don 
White, has organized a global network on a shoestring, equipping volunteers 
in remote areas with inexpensive computers, modems, and electronic mail 
accounts. The well-planned use of electronic mail enables him to knit together 
a geographically dispersed organization highly effectively. “Our organization 
has accomplished goals over the last two years that rival the achievements of 
organizations with twenty times Earthtrust’s annual budget,” he claims. 
Nonprofits and NGOs (nongovernmental organizations) do the people- 
feeding, prisoner-liberating, house-building, wilderness-saving, humanitarian 
and environmental work that falls between the cracks of government and for- 
profit organizations. The Red Cross, CARE, Amnesty International, Rainforest 
Action Network, Greenpeace, the Sierra Club, and a proliferation of increas- 
ingly international NGOs are forming what Howard Frederick of Econet/ 
Peacenet calls “Global Civil Society.” Traditionally, such organizations are 
overworked and underfunded. Even though they might gain power and save 
money by computerizing, the staff of many such organizations don’t know 
where to start. Now, first wave technology-knowledgeable activists are 
providing expertise and training to others. 
A nonprofit itself, CompuMentor matches volunteer technical advisers with 
nonprofits; mentors help organizations choose and purchase the right equip- 
ment at minimal price, then set up databases, publish newsletters, organize 
electronic mailing lists. The Association of Progressive Communications 
(APC) brings affordable electronic mail and conferencing to hundreds of 
NGOs and nonprofits worldwide; APC’s Econet, Peacenet, and Conflictnet 
furnish activists with all the benefits of worldwide networking. 
Others who are working to improve the quality of civic life have been 
experimenting with an application of many-to-many communications known 
as civic networking. 
COMPASS, funded by the Oregon Lottery, offers statewide access to BBSs, 
electronic mail, computer conferencing, and the Internet. School House, an 
item in the COMPASS main menu, is “‘a place for K-12 teachers, students, and 
parents to meet.” Other menu options are government information, state 
university libraries, health and wellness information, community calendars, 
“teleports” to other locations in the Internet, and a “Public Square.” 
Since 1988, Montana’s Big Sky Telegraph has linked one-room schoolhouses 
with Internet tutors and connected nonprofit organizations such as the 
Women’s Resource Center with sources of information and support. Rural 
schools, public libraries, rural economic development offices, organizations 
for employing the disabled, rural hospitals, were connected using inexpensive 
telecommunication technology that was in turn plugged into the vast network 
of networks known as the Internet. 
It’s happening in Hawaii and the Heartland; in Taos, New Mexico; Blacksburg, 
Virginia; and Bloomsberg, Pennsylvania. There is LatinoNet, PeaceNet, and 
EcoNet. NativeNet and INDIANnet connect not only cities and states, but 
tribes. 
Net technology makes possible a more democratic medium of 
expression than 
did previous communication technologies. A BBS-like public conversation is 
open to anyone who wants to join the discussion; it is not a “few-to-many” 
medium like television, talk radio, newspapers or magazines, but a “many-to- 
many” medium that gives large numbers of people access to large numbers of 
people. The power to persuade and educate — to influence people’s beliefs 
and perceptions — is radically decentralized when people can communicate 
in this way: control is spread throughout the network. 
In Bucharest and Moscow, crucial recent battles were not fought over 
armories: instead, television broadcast stations were the battlegrounds — 
because mass-communication nerve centers are strategic chokepoints in the 
flow of words, images, and ideas. The power to transmit information, in old- 
style mass media, is concentrated 
in a small number of locations and 
institutions. Networks are radically different: technically, any node on a high- 
capacity computer communications network can send, as well as receive, 
words, sounds, images, computer software, video, to any other node. Plugged 
into an ordinary telephone, a personal computer becomes a printing press, a 
broadcasting station, a town hall meeting. 
Conferencing systems structure discussions according to topic, making it 
easier for people to find others who share their interests, and to request and 
offer specific information about problems. A person concerned about ecology 
can go to an ecology discussion area and browse the list of discussions, 
selecting from topics devoted to local water resources or national air quality. 
With information organized this way, networks of people can serveas informal 
support systems for each other; a conferencing system that includes a broad 
base of members with a wide variety of expertise is a “living database” in which 
everyone can serve asa 
librarian and consultant for everyone else. (see Virtual 
Communities, p. 262.) 
Geographic Information Systems (see p. 14) combine maps and computer 
databases, creating another tool for political activists. Again, the falling price 
of computing power makes a tool that was once practical only for elite use now 
available to citizens; for instance, GIS can be used to track the use or misuse 
of natural resources, or to detect illegal redlining in cities. 
No tool in itself can be an answer to a human problem. Clear goals based 
on some variety of moral groundedness, provide the all-important context: 
do you know what you want to build or destroy when you pick up a tool? 
Can you use the means at hand to enhance the welfare of your community? 
Much depends on how — and why — we use the tools that are now becom- 
ing available. —HLR 
