Nomadics 
AFRICA 329 
Africa on a Shoestring 
There's no question that this volumi- 
nous guidebook to fifty-four countries 
offers the most comprehensive 
information on Africa. 
Each country has its own chapter that 
includes extensive history, background, 
and important facts for visitors. You 
can find out how to get around by car, 
bike, bus, or thumb; listings of places 
to eat and sleep include campgrounds 
and four-star hotels, Suggested diver- 
sions include main attractions like the 
old walled medina in Fez and jungle 
hikes to see gorillas in Rwanda. The 
book's 350 maps cover countries, cit- 
ies, and towns. 
—Marguerita |. Castanera 
e 
There are taxis in most cities in Egypt. The 
most common and cheapest are the black- 
and-white taxis in Cairo and the black-and- 
orange ones in Alexandria. Almost all of 
them have meters but most of the meters 
don’t work, so you have to pay what you 
think is right and be prepared to argue and 
bargain. 
When you reach your destination, get out 
of the cab and then pay. If you think the 
driver is trying to cheat you, then just men- 
tion the police, and the taxi driver will 
probably accept your price to avoid any 
hassle. Don’t be intimidated by the driver's 
~__ 
yelling; it’s usually just an act to 
= 
get you to cough up more 
Re, money. If he 
"7x agrees with you 
amas 
about 
seeing 
"the 
police, then the 
fare you offered is 
probably too low. 
e 
There can be few cities in the world with a 
history as rich as Cairo’s. Where else could 
you see 4500-year-old pyramids (some of 
the world’s largest constructions) and the 
Sphinx, Roman ruins, Byzantine Coptic 
churches, exquisitely carved and brilliantly 
conceived mosques and fortresses from the 
days when Cairo was the cultural centre of 
the Islamic world, traditional lateen-sailed 
boats on the river, a camel market and 
even catacombs? All this plus a vibrant 
modern political and social culture which is 
second to none. 
Here is the essence of Islamic culture and 
Africa’s largest city. The only one which 
comes close to it in size is Johannesburg, 
though the comparison would probably not 
be appreciated. 
There's an endless variety of things to see 
and do — noisy, bustling bazaars packed 
into narrow winding streets, and those 
1001 aromas (delicious, evocative and occa- 
sionally repulsive) which characterise so 
much of the East. 
N 
y 
NY 
X 
Africa on a Shoestring 
Geoff Crowther. 1992; 1363 pp. 
ISBN 0-86442-127-3 
$27.95 ($29.45 postpaid) from Lonely 
Planet Publications/Embarcadero West, 
155 Filbert Street/Ste. 251, Oakland, CA 
94607-2538; 800/275-8555 
Adventuring In East Africa 
Travelers who love nature, animals, 
and the outdoors will get the most use 
from this Sierra Club guidebook to 
East Africa's wildlife reserves and 
national parks. 
Allen Bechky provides essential back- 
ground reading, useful tips, and the 
best animal-watching opportunities 
in Kenya, Tanzania, Eastern Zaire, 
Rwanda, and Uganda. He includes 
safari etiquette and information on 
shopping, health care, and safety. 
Thorough descriptions of each park 
address conservation issues, accom- 
modations, access and fees. There is 
also a brief glossary of basic Swahili 
and a list of safari tour operators. 
—MIC 
e 
English is the only language you need for 
comfortable travel in East Africa and south- 
ern Africa. French is essential in West Af- 
rica. One or the other will be spoken by all 
educated people in these regions, and will 
be widely understood by many others. . . . 
It is virtually impossible to prepare yourself 
to speak even a fraction of the tribal dia- 
lects that you could encounter in a single 
country. It is useful to learn the polite 
forms of address and expression in the 
local language of whatever region you will 
concentrate your visit: it always brightens 
faces when a foreigner is able to respond 
to greetings. Phrasebooks in local languages 
are generally available in capital cities. 
The only African language dictionaries and 
phrasebooks available in the United States 
are for Swahili. Swahili is widely spoken 
only in East Africa and Zaire, where it 
enjoys official status among the dozens 
oflocal languages. 
e 
In postindependence Africa, government 
Officials spread the view that tourists took 
pictures of Africans only to mock them as 
curiosities, “just like the animals in the 
game parks.” Officials took a particularly 
dim view of photos of bare-breasted or 
spear-toting natives. They were anxious to 
project a modern image for their countries, 
not to be seen as “primitives.” In some 
places it became illegal to take pictures of 
colorful tribespeople. Generally, the word 
was put out that Africans shouldn’t allow 
themselves to be photographed. That view 
mellowed with the increasing influx of tour- 
ists. Once it became clear that tourists 
were willing to pay for pictures, photo 
privileges became an economic resource. 
Now it’s standard to pay people if you wish 
Zimbabwe and Botswana: 
The Rough Guide 
Zimbabwe and Botswana have won- 
derful game parks and safaris, majes- 
tic scenery, a thriving and innovative 
popular music scene, and rich cultures 
that have only recently established in- 
dependence from long periods of colo- 
nial domination. This book is packed 
with information about such interesting 
features and historical tidbits as 
Matopos rock paintings, the Mwari 
religious cult, the controversial hunting 
of Chobe elephants, and the political 
imbroglio of the marriage between 
Botswana heir Sir Seretse Khama 
and a white Englishwoman. 
You get a nice feel for the natural and 
cultural forces that have shaped these 
lands and societies. Rough Guides are 
also available to Kenya, Morocco, 
Tunisia, and Egypt —RU 
e 
So prolific is the output of Africa’s largest 
artists’ community that acres of land 
around Tengenenge seem to have been 
planted with sculptural works — primitive, 
crude, representational or grotesque, and 
in overwhelming quantities. Sculptures 
perch on walls, window-sills and above the 
doors of derelict buildings; others stand on 
wooden plinths driven into the ground or 
lie tossed aside in the grass. You can walk 
around the village looking at the carvings 
and chat to sculptors chipping away at new 
works. Almost everything is for sale and if 
you’re looking for a quality bargain by an 
unknown, this is definitely the place. 
e 
The most interesting of all the zimbabwes, 
Naletale stands at the top of a natural gran- 
ite dome. As you gaze onto the wooded 
valley, it’s difficult to imagine a better pros- 
pect, with trees growing between the long- 
deserted walls and daga hut fragments. The 
| site is small in size — you could do a circuit 
of the whole place in fifteen minutes — but 
it's easy to while away half a day wandering 
about. 
From close up the walls don’t look terribly 
special but step back from the northwest 
section, the best preserved, and take in the 
patterning. Better still, lie down, prop your 
head on one of the pillow-sized rocks scat- 
tered about, and just gaze. The tapestried 
wall is, without doubt, the pinnacle of the 
Zimbabwe-Khami masonry tradition, the 
only one standing that includes all five types 
of patterning: chevron, chequer, herring- 
bone, cord and ironstone. The outer wall, 
originally topped by small towers with 
monoliths, enclosed a large raised platform 
which was surrounded by a number of 
courtyards and other smaller platforms. 
When Donald Randall Mclver, the first pro- 
fessional archaeologist to investigate Great 
Zimbabwe, dug here, he found elephant 
tusks embedded in the remains of one of 
the huts. 
e 
One of the eeriest features of the 
Makgadikgadi Pans are the fossil-like extru- 
sions of rock — “islands” in a sea of grey 
sand. Most notable, and magical, is Kubu Is- 
land, a mound of 
lumpy rocks, pushing |0m 
above the Pan floor in the southwest cor- 
ner of Sua Pan. It doesn’t sound like much, 
but in a landscape as flat as a billiard table, 
it gives you a fantastic view of the sur- 
rounding brineland. On the outcrop are the 
grotesque red-tinged baobabs that inspired 
Michael Main to write, in his book Kalahari: 
Life’s Variety in Dune and Delta: 
Gnarled, usually leafless, their dwarfed and 
twisted forms suggest the agony of ages spent 
on salted waters beneath a remorseless sun. 
Some, seen in silhouette against the stark, grey 
pan, suggest a visit to another world, unutter- 
ably remote and lonely. 
Zimbabwe and Botswana 
(The Rough Guide) 
Barbara McCrea & Tony Pinchuck. 
The Rough Guides, 1993; 423 pp. 
ISBN |-85828-041-9 
$16.95 ($18.95 postpaid) from Penguin 
USA/Consumer Sales, |20 Woodbine 
Street, Bergenfield, NJ 07621; 800/253-6476 
to take their picture. Many visitors take 
umbrage at having payment demanded for 
photos, but you can hardly blame the Afri- 
cans for asking. They know that foreigners 
are all wealthy by their standards and can 
easily afford a small payment. They also 
know that pictures are potentially valuable 
— that they can be sold to magazines for a 
great deal of money, none of which they 
will see. They have no way of knowing 
which shots will end up in a private photo 
album and which on the cover of National 
Geographic. It really is not unreasonable to 
pay them a modeling fee. 
N 
N 
Adventuring in East Africa 
Allen Bechky. 1990; 446 pp. 
ISBN 0-87 156-747-4 
$14.95 ($17.95 postpaid) from Sierra 
Club Store Orders, 730 Polk Street, 
San Francisco, CA 94109; 800/935-1056 
