78 
Sustainability 
CONFLICT RESOLUTION 
Conflict Resolution 
Ranging from the most necessary skill- 
ful means to pure hype, conflict resolu- 
tion is for those with a distaste for pro- 
longed court litigation and costs and 
civil disobedience. Information sharing, 
facilitation, mediation, alternative dis- 
pute resolution, consensus building — 
the vowel-ful latinate phrases bring on 
a subtextual ache for tough Saxon 
words. Wanna duke it out? Can we 
shoot the shit instead? 
Resolving Environmental Disputes has 
great vignettes and thoughts about 
the relevance of and place for media- 
tion. The Conservation Foundation’s 
RESOLVE (Center for Environmental 
Conflict Resolution) gives this book 
backbone. Breaking the Impasse con- 
siders the big picture, with a great bib- 
liography and good thoughts on fair- 
ness, wisdom, zero-sum and 
integrative approaches. —PW 
e 
Storm King 
The dispute: Opposition to Consolidated 
Edison Company of New York’s plans to 
build a hydroelectric and pumped storage 
plant at the foot of Storm King Mountain in 
the Hudson River highlands first arose 
when the Scenic Hudson Preservation Con- 
ference was formed late in 1963. Over the 
years, the issues involved in the dispute 
spread from simply whether the plant 
would unacceptably mar the scenic beauty 
of the Hudson to broad questions of the 
total effect of several utility plants on the 
water quality and the fish life of the Hudson 
River. 
Resolving Environmental 
Disputes 
Gail Bingham, The Conservation Foundation. 
1986; 284 pp. ISBN 0-89164-087-8 
$15 ($17 postpaid). World Wildlife Fund, 
PO Box 4866, Hampden Station, Baltimore, 
MD 21211; 410/516-6951 
The process: After a decade and a half of 
litigation and administrative hearings, attor- 
neys for the environmental groups and 
Consolidated Edison discussed negotiating 
face to face and, in March 1979, asked 
Russell Train to mediate the dispute. Train 
spent several months laying the ground- 
work for negotiations and began them in 
August 1979. On December |, 1980, || 
parties signed an agreement that ended the 
dispute. 
The result: Consolidated Edison forfeited 
its construction license for Storm King and 
turned the land over to the Palisades Inter- 
state Parkway Commission. To protect 
striped bass and other fish species, the utili- 
ties agreed to establish a fish hatchery and 
to reduce, for 10 years, their withdrawals 
of water from the river during the summer 
months. They further agreed not to build 
any new power plants without cooling tow- 
ers above the George Washington Bridge 
for 25 years, to endow a river research or- 
ganization, and to reimburse legal fees to 
the environmental groups. in return for 
these concessions, EPA dropped its de- 
Just What Is An EIR? * How To Write Quality ElSs and EAs 
In 1971, President Nixon signed the 
National Environmental Policy Act. It 
kind of slipped through in the new un- 
tested waters of earth-consciousness. 
It has been the most profound and 
important new element in participa- 
tory democracy since women gained 
the vote. Industrial elitists and neo- 
classical economists tried to squash 
environmental-impact reporting (EIR) 
by claiming it stopped progress. But 
EIRs simply improved the design of 
public projects like the Alaska pipeline, 
made developers more thoughtful 
about long-term consequences of their 
short-term profit motives, and every- 
one aware of the cumulative effects of 
our lives on the planet. 
Just What Is An EIR? is a seasoned 
one hundred-page intro with perspec- 
tives from Sweden, the Netherlands, 
and England. It is excellent for town 
plans, sensitive areas, growth induce- 
ment, and altematives. If you actually 
need to write or criticize an EIR, then 
How To is a step-by-step guide. No 
frills, essential ——PW 
e 
Be cautious about using the words signifi- 
cant or significantly. If you use either of 
these words, you must explain as precisely 
as you can, in terms of the context and in- 
tensity of the effects, exactly how you are 
using the term. 
e 
“Mitigation” includes: 
(a) Avoiding the impact altogether by not 
taking a certain action or parts of an action. 
(b) Minimizing impacts by limiting the de- 
gree or magnitude of the action and its 
implementation. 
(c) Rectifying the impact by repairing, reha- 
bilitating, or restoring the affected environ- 
ment. 
(d) Reducing or eliminating the impact over 
time by preservation and maintenance op- 
erations during the life of the action. 
(e) Compensating for the impact by replac- 
ing or providing substitute resources or en- 
vironments. —How To 
e 
“No Project” Alternative 
Initially there was a good deal of resistance 
to preparing a “no project” alternative, at 
least in California. Many developers and 
project proponents (including government 
agencies) asked, “If our goal is to build a 
project, what possible good comes from 
planning not to build it?” 
The “good” is this: by preparing an analysis 
of the “no project” alternative, it’s actually 
possible to develop a clearer statement of 
the need for the project! The “no” alterna- 
tive gives planners and decision makers a 
better framework for evaluating the “yes” 
alternatives. To the surprise of many envi- 
ronmental activists, the “no” alternative is 
sometimes more damaging to the environ- 
ment than other project alternatives. 
Breaking the Impasse 
(Consensual Approaches 
to Resolving Public Disputes) 
Lawrence Susskind & Jeffrey L. Cruikshank. 
Basic Books, | 987; 288 pp. 
ISBN 0-465-00750-3 
$15 ($17.75 postpaid). HarperCollins 
Publishers/Direct Mail, PO Box 588, 
Dunmore, PA 18512; 800/331-3761 
mands for expensive cooling towers at sev- 
eral of the existing plants, and the environ- 
mental groups dropped legal and adminis- 
trative challenges against the utilities. A 
year after the settlement, New York State 
issued discharge permits, incorporating the 
terms of the mediated settlement, to the 
utilities. All aspects of the settlement have 
been implemented. —Resolving Environmen- 
tal Disputes 
e 
The “zero-sum” approach assumes that 
there are only limited gains available. What- 
ever one group wins, the other groups 
lose. Thus, the pluses to one side are bal- 
anced out by the minuses to the other side, 
yielding a total of zero — a “zero sum.” 
If a dispute concerns the allocation of a lim- 
ited supply of water, for example, the nego- 
tiation will undoubtedly be framed as a 
zero-sum exercise: additional gallons gained 
by one party must be given up by others. In 
such a situation, the opening positions 
taken by the parties are crucial. An opening 
bid, so to speak, can “anchor” the final out- 
come. —Breaking the Impasse 
Just What Is An EIR 
James A. Roberts. 1991; 208 pp. 
ISBN 0-96305 1 5-0-4 
$14 postpaid. Global Environmental 
Management Service, 2862 Arden Way, 
Suite 215, Sacramento, CA 95825; 
916/483-1564 
How to Write 
Quality ElSs and EAs 
Larry H. Freeman. 1992; 84 pp. 
ISBN 0-933427-98-0 
$22.95 ($26.95 postpaid). Shipley Associates 
Attn: Products Dept., PO Box 460, Bountiful, 
Utah 84011; 801/299-4700 
Each resource you analyze should have its. 
sae 
own map showing the extent of the anaylsis. 
—How to Write Quality ElSs and EAs. 
e 
Now EIR offers the public a way to be in- 
volved in the decision-making process. Indi- 
viduals or groups can help define what is to 
be studied, and they can suggest and analyze 
alternatives. They can present evidence 
about potential consequences and be in- 
volved in a way that has the double benefit 
of producing better projects and better-in- 
formed citizens. 
The EIR process has not always been easy. 
Many well-meaning politicians and engineers 
have protested, “We never did it that way 
before; we have always done the ‘best’ plan 
and told the public what was decided.” But 
now the ‘best plan’ must include elements 
defined by the public as well as what is im- 
portant to experts and politicians. EIR has 
proved to be an excellent way to receive in- 
put from the public in an orderly and pro- 
The Enviro-Conflict Heavies 
Sierra Club Legal Defense Fund: | 80 
Montgomery Street, Suite 1400, San Fran- 
cisco, CA 94104; 415/627-6700. 
Thirty-six lawyers trying to resolve an ava- 
lanche of conflicts. Upstairs likes a win/lose 
ratio of 90 percent, so SCLDF shies from 
the hottest cases and exasperates some 
of the grassroots. (For cases SCLDF won't 
take, see Biodiversity Legal Foundation 
[303/442-3037]). If heaven is an ancient 
cathedral forest and owls as wise as some 
believe, this may be the only law firm 
through the pearly gates. Their | 50,000 
members need to keep SCLDF from out- 
of-court compromises, even if that means 
a lower win/lose ratio. 
Natural Resources Defense Council: Mem- 
bership $1! O/year. Natural Resources De- 
fense Council/NRDC Publications, 40 West 
20th Street, New York, NY 1001 I; 21 2/ 
727-2700. 
Scientists and lawyers and more scientists 
and lawyers; the clout of white-collar brains 
in the regulatory arena. In its writing of 
congressional bills, NRDC stresses human 
health concems: air and water pollution, 
nuclear safety, energy, toxics. Biodiversity is 
not their forte. They believe in the “ratio- 
nal” path and bridge major gaps with the 
Big Boys. Four NRDC graduates have 
joined four departments of Clintonia. Lots 
of us have given up that hope. So the 
Earth needs NRDC and their magazine 
(Amicus Journal), which is probably the 
best reporting of the Big Ten. A good place 
to intern. 
Environmental Defense Fund: 257 Park 
Avenue South, New York, NY 10010; 21 2/ 
505-2100, fax 212/505-2375. 
A mixed bag of 
scientists, lawyers, and 
economists who try to resolve conflicts by 
searching for economic incentives that pre- 
vent lawsuits and please corporate man- 
agers. To everybody's surprise, EDF some- 
times finds them. Swapping contamination 
credits and freer market water sales do 
have their place. The risk is that “disincen- 
tives” like polluter-pays will become lost in 
the sludge. EDF's ability to meet the indus- 
trialists and educate and barter is not for 
the faint of heart. If one man could save 
the Endangered Species Act, it might be 
Michael Bean, EDF's wildlife expert. 
—PW 
Elk Cumulative 
Analysis Boundary ----._ 
Mine 
ie 
“| 
Private Land 
Elk Herd "A" 
Elk Herd “B™ 
ductive yee 
e 
Cultural Resources 
a. Will the proposal result in the alter- 
ation of or the destruction of a prehistoric 
or historic archaeological site? 
b. Will the proposal result in adverse 
physical or aesthetic effects to a prehis- 
toric or historic building, structure, or ob- 
ject? 
c. Does the proposal have the potential to 
cause a physical change which would affect 
unique ethnic cultural values? 
d. Will the proposal restrict existing reli- 
gious or sacred uses within the potential 
impact area? —Just What Is 
