138 
/ 
dle and not-so-idle conversations 
new intellee 
Community 
SALONS AND STUDY CIRCLES 
m, formerly abstntise 
cussion= 
We're 
talki 
change the world. Indeed, it’s the only thing that ever has.” —Stephanie Mills 
ni authority. As the late great MargaretMead 
can lead to interesting developments: 
val eras, revolutions, countercul 
subjects clarifieds 
Wile qu stion g Bnd 
all group of thoughtful, committéé'eitizens can 
Study Circles Resource Center 
The Study Circle is a semiformal 
method for group discussion of some 
pressing social concem; racism, sexual 
harassment, civil rights for gays and 
lesbians are among the topics of this 
outfit's concise discussion guides. 
A study circle requires an organizer, a 
leader, and participants willing to com- 
mit three or more evenings to civil con- 
versation and deliberation about the 
topic at hand. 
The Study Circles Resource Center pro- 
vides how-to literature on organizing 
and leading study circles, SCRC’s quar- 
terly newsletter reports on this rapidly 
burgeoning practice of adult collabora- 
tive leaming. It's a citizenship gym with 
open membership, a way to tone up 
those rights-and-responsibilities 
muscles, —SM 
Study Circles Resource Center: 
Information from PO Box 2031, Pomfret, 
CT 06258; 203/928-2616, 
Fax: 203/928-3713 
= 
Revolution from Within 
Gloria Steinem, perhaps our most ex- 
emplary servant-leader, tumed her 
midlife crisis into philosopher's gold. An 
honest, compassionate engagement 
with one’s own inner life and history, 
she found, is the indispensable 
complement to fair and effective work 
with groups of individuals seeking jus- 
tice and positive social change. Self-es- 
teem, counsels Steinem, is the essen- 
tial element in personal and societal 
liberation. 
The small group proves to be a critical 
tool. In her afterword, Steinem gives a 
simple format for organizing an up- 
dated version of the feminist con- 
Sciousness-raising group, a small, regu- 
lar gathering of persons interested in 
self exploration, mutual support, and 
action to improve the larger situation. 
It is nonviolent, humane revolutionary 
practice moving in the only authentic 
direction — from the examined self 
through conscious community to the 
suffering society as a whole. —SM 
e 
Perhaps our first job is to envision a full- 
circle, extended-family-size group and 
know we have a right to it. Otherwise, we 
will go right on turning to big organizations, 
narrow interest groups, and nuclear family 
units that can’t take the pressure of all our 
hopes and needs. Look at it this way: if 
each cell within our bodies is a whole and 
indivisible version of those bodies, and each 
of us is a whole and indivisible cell of the 
body politic, then each of us has an organic 
need to be part of a group in which we can 
be our whole and indivisible selves. 
So, as a result of what I’ve learned from 
readers of this book, here is a suggestion 
for a goal by the year 2000: A national hon- 
eycomb of diverse, small, personal/political 
groups that are committed to each member’s 
welfare through both inner and outer change, 
self-realization and social justice. It doesn’t 
matter whether we call them testifying or 
soul sessions as in the civil rights move- 
ment, consciousness-raising or rap groups 
as in early feminism; covens, quilting bees, 
or women’s circles as in women’s history; 
or revolutionary cells, men’s groups, coun- 
cils of grandmothers, or “speaking bitter- 
——— 
oki SEE 
4 Book of 
SelfEsteem 
VOLUTION 
ow wn 
FROM WITHE 
Revolution from Within 
Gloria Steinem. 1992; 421 pp. 
ISBN 0-316-81247-| 
$11.95 ($14.95 postpaid) from Little, Brown 
and Co./Order Dept., 200 West Street, 
Waltham, MA 02154; 800/343- 
ness” groups as in various movements and 
cultures. Perhaps they will have an entirely 
new name... | think of them just as “revo- 
lutionary groups,” for a revolution is also a 
full circle. The important thing is that they 
are free, diverse, no bigger than an ex- 
tended family — and everywhere. 
This isn’t as large an order as it sounds. If 
two white male alcoholics could start a na- 
tional network of meetings that are free, 
leaderless, and accessible, so can we. 
e 
People are sometimes baffled by the neces- 
sity to promote such a simple idea as dis- 
cussion. After all, people talk all the time 
don’t they? Well, yes and no. Though the 
study circle is a simple concept, it is also re- 
freshingly different from other kinds of talk- 
ing. We often observe or hear from those 
who have experienced the study circle 
“Aha!” that happens when people realize 
that they are talking about the same old is- 
sues in a distinctly different way. At the end 
of one study circle session, a new partici- 
pant offered, “This must be what it feels 
like to be a citizen.” 
e 
Comparison of dialogue and debate 
Dialogue is collaborative: two or more 
sides work together toward common un- 
derstanding. 
Debate is oppositional: two sides oppose each 
other and attempt to prove each other wrong. 
Dialogue enlarges and possibly changes a 
participant’s point of view. 
Debate affirms a participant’s own point of 
view. 
Dialogue reveals assumptions for reevalua- 
tion. 
Debate defends assumptions as truth. 
—Focus on Study Circles 
The Practice of Council 
Council is a method for group discus- 
sion and communion around issues 
and problems — including vibes and 
behavior — of common concern. The 
emphasis is on devout listening and 
spontaneous speaking. The expeni- 
ence, they say, is like a group medita- 
tion, a rapt attention to the truth 
voiced by each participant in tum. 
There is ceremonial form to this, and 
— sometimes — transcendent con- 
tent. Shadows, too, naturally, but the 
hope is that the detachment leamed 
through opening to the group will ren- 
der those projections less adhesive. 
Listening from the heart is prerequisite 
for speaking from the heart, and these 
two activities may form the funda- 
mental discipline that will guide us 
through the nineties. Millennium, ho! 
—SM 
e 
When exploring strongly held underlying 
values, alterations of the usual form of 
Council are often helpful. One simple vari- 
ant is to place the talking stick in the center 
of the circle (say after completing one 
round in the usual fashion), where it can be 
retrieved by anyone wanting to speak again 
The Practice 
of Council 
Jack Zimmerman & Virginia Coyle. 1993; 
22 pp. $3 postpaid from Ojai Foundation, 
PO Box 1620, Ojai, CA 93023; 
805/646-8343 
and then returned to the center. In this 
way the attentive listening and spirit of 
Council are maintained while those particu- 
larly impassioned can deepen their interac- 
tion without the necessity of hearing from 
the entire circle. 
Another form well-suited to the extended 
exploration of a complex or demanding is- 
sue, particularly when the circle is large, is 
the “fishbowl,” or “web.” In this process, 
which also lends itself admirably to decision 
making, a few pillows or chairs (four is usu- 
ally suitable) are placed in the center of the 
circle along with the talking stick. As the 
Council starts, anyone can fill the empty 
seats and make their statement. Then that 
person passes the stick to the next person 
in the center and returns to the large 
circle, leaving a space for others stirred to 
speak. People are allowed to return to the 
fishbowl a second or even a third time, but 
are asked to self-regulate if there remain 
others who as yet haven't contributed. 
Neighborhood Salon 
Association 
A 199]! Utne Reader issue described 
salons and their variants and offered 
to connect readers with others ex- 
pressing similar interests in nearby zip 
codes. Utne got more than eight thou- 
sand responses, grouped them into 
five hundred geographical clusters, 
and voila, the modern salon move- 
ment was born. At last count, more 
than three hundred Utne-inspired 
salons, study circles and councils re- 
main active, connected loosely through 
the Neighborhood Salon Association. 
For $12, NSA members get a list of 
potential salonites in their area, place- 
ment in an Intemet email salon, and 
The Salon-Keeper’s Companion, a 
guide to starting and conducting a sa- 
lon. You can certainly start your salon 
without the help of NSA or anyone 
else, but here's the place to turn for 
ideas and contacts with those who 
have gone before. —Michael K. Stone 
e 
Breaking bread together is a time-honored 
social lubricant, but food can also get in the 
way of focused group conversation. 
Whether you gather for breakfast, lunch or 
dinner, it’s usually best to start the discus- 
sion first and break later for eating. Most 
salon-keepers we've talked to feel that the 
best conversation happens 
without alcohol. 
—The Salon-Keeper’s 
Companion 
Neighborhood 
Salon 
Association: 
Lifetime membership $12. 
| 
c/o Utne Reader, 1624 Harmon PI., 
Minneapolis, MN 55403; 612/338-5040. 
Email salons@utnereader.com or 
utnereader@igc.apc.org 
