334 
Nomadics 
ON & OFF THE AMERICAN HIGHWAY 
Moon Handbooks to US States 
While they publish an outstanding se- 
lection of international guides, Moon's 
greatest achievements may be the in- 
dividual state books they offer those 
looking for altematives to AAA guides. 
Those trusty road manuals tell you 
how to get from here to there well 
enough, but Moon's more interested in 
the hot springs, saloons, and ghost 
towns in between. Oriented toward in- 
dependent and modestly budgeted 
travelers, the series so far focuses on 
the western US. Moon not only digs 
up little-discovered attractions, but 
also offers thumbnail sketches of the 
culture and state politics of regions 
that rarely make national headlines. 
—Richie Unterberger 
e 
When gambling was legalized in 1931, Elko 
started up its casino industry in the vener- 
able Commercial Hotel. Newton Crumley, 
who'd owned hotels in Tonopah and Gold- 
field, and a saloon in Jarbridge, had bought 
the Commercial six years earlier. The 
Crumleys followed the lead of Raymond 
and Harold Smith of Reno by making the 
new gambling accessible and acceptable to 
the masses. But the Crumleys went an im- 
portant step further and began to book big- 
name acts to do the floor show in the 
Nevada has the country’s loneliest roads 
lounge. A rousing success, this began the 
tradition of headliners and floor shows in 
casinos. 
This booming town has a brash, modern, 
frontier energy all its own. It’s easy to slip 
into Elko’s strong stream of hustle and 
bustle, which seems to keep pace with the 
cars and trucks on the superhighway, the 
freight and passenger trains chugging right 
through town, and the planes landing at and 
taking off from the airport. Yet Elko also 
has a warm, homespun vitality to it. Com- 
ing into Elko after a long drive from any di- 
rection is like 
stepping up to 
a blazing camp- 
fire on a cold 
desert night. 
And you seem 
to return to 
Elko again and 
again, after 
playing around 
for awhile up in 
the Rubies or 
up around 
Jarbridge, or 
just passing 
through on your 
comings and goings. So get to know 
Elko. Within and around it is everything 
you could need or want from 
a major Nevada town. 
Roadfood 
Covering every state in the union, Jane 
and Michel Stern take us to the tasti- 
est and most colorful of those neigh- 
borhood establishments and highway 
cafes that you'll never find in the 
guidebooks. Before you dread that 
overnight stop in Cincinnati, read the 
Ohio chapter. (Bet you didn’t know it 
was the chili capital of America). 
Written with respect for good food 
and a sincere, often hilarious apprecia- 
tion of local character and ambience, 
this book is an entertaining document 
of Americana in its own right. —RU 
e 
We had checked into a motel on the strip 
leading into Bowling Green; and having no 
other hot leads, found ourselves at 
Kaufman’s for dinner. The original 
Kaufman’s was (and still is) downtown on 
Main Street. The new branch, on the strip, 
is what was once Howard Johnson’s. “The 
best food in town!” our motel clerk assured 
us. We were dubious. It looked so ordinary. 
Before going, we telephoned Kaufman’s to 
investigate, quizzing them to find out if their 
mashed potatoes are handmade or instant. 
When they said they peeled and mashed 
spuds every day, we were on our way. 
Roadfood 
Jane Stern & Michael Stern. 
1992; ISBN 0-06-096599- | 
$15 ($17.75 postpaid) from HarperCollins 
Publishers/Direct Mail, PO Box 588, 
Dunmore, PA 18512; 800/331-3761 
Inside the ex-HoJo’s, what used to be the 
soda fountain is now a bar. The place is 
rather disheveled; the help is mostly young 
people, as in the average nobody-cares 
franchise ... so you think. But you are 
wrong. The lad who brings the crock of 
cheddar cheese and crackers hors d’oeuvre 
takes an oath that the mashed potatoes are 
real. “Nothing we do here is phony,” he as- 
sures you. And by golly, he is right. 
Everything isn’t necessarily wonderful. In 
this relatively Roadfoodless region, however, 
we are grateful for apple sauce that is real, 
chunky, homemade — yes, homemade. 
And real home-baked dinner rolls even if, 
at the end of a busy weekend, they have 
the dried consistency of yesterday's. 
A Foreign Visitor’s Survival Guide to America 
This book is a no-nonsense primer to 
American customs, practicalities, and 
mores. Covering housing, financing, 
food, health, etiquette, and difficult 
situations, it's useful not only for visi- 
tors and those planning to live in the 
US, but also for Americans hosting and 
working with foreigners. —RU 
Moon Handbooks 
AK/Yukon, AZ, Baja, Big Island (HI), BC, 
Catalina Island, CO, HI, ID, Kauai, Maui, 
MT, NV, NM, Northern CA, Oahu, OR, 
TX, UT, WA, WY, Yucatan: $1 1.95-$14.95. 
Catalog free. PO Box 3040, Chico, CA 
95927; 800/345-5473, fax 916/345-6751 
pie} 
Nevada is full of travelers’ oases such as this one. 
A typical 
American 
table setting 
e 
Two issues that can cause friction even 
between people of the same culture are 
money and privacy. It is important to real- 
ize that your agreement to pay your share 
of the rent has to be discharged in money. 
As an immigrant, your assets are often in 
kind, not cash, but this does not help your 
roommate pay the landlord or the landlord 
pay his or her property taxes. Another 
common misconception held by newcom- 
ers with socialist backgrounds is that the 
one with greater assets at the time should 
pay what is due or be willing to extend 
credit until the other has enough money to 
pay. This expectation will rarely be met in 
the United States. 
A Foreign Visitor’s Survival 
Guide to America 
Shauna Singh Baldwin & Marilyn M. Levine. 
1992; 211 pp. ISBN 1-56261-059-7 
$12.95 ($16.70 postpaid) from 
John Muir Publications, PO Box 613, 
Santa Fe, NM 87504; 800/888-7504 
Hidden Guidebooks 
This series takes you to little-traveled 
trails and homey diners as well as 
famed attractions, and reminds you of 
how much sparsely inhabited or unin- 
habited territory we still have. —RU 
e 
Just down the road from Billy the Kid’s 
grave, Fort Sumner State Monument (505- 
355-2573) marks the site of the army out- 
post for which the town was named. By the 
time Billy the Kid came to town, the fort had 
been converted to a ranch headquarters, 
and it was here that Garrett killed him. Just 
a few years earlier, the fort was the scene of 
larger and more infamous events. Colonel 
Kit Carson, after forcing the entire Navajo 
tribe to walk 300 miles from their homeland 
to this place, ordered them to build Fort 
Sumner as a concentration camp. More than 
| 1,000 Indians lived in captivity here for six 
years, and 3,000 of them died of starvation 
and disease. Finally the government con- 
cluded that keeping the Navajo at Fort 
Sumner was too expensive and that their 
homeland was without value to the white 
man. Then the surviving Navajo people were 
allowed to walk back home. Today, no trace 
remains of the original fort. Low adobe walls 
mark the location of the main fort buildings. 
The most moving part of the monument is a 
simple shrine of stones brought from all 
over the Navajo Reservation and left here 
by Native Americans in memory of those 
who lived and died here. 
Hidden Guidebooks 
New England, Boston & Cape Cod, FL, 
Florida Keys, Rockies, Pacific Northwest, 
San Francisco & Northern California, 
Southern California, Coast of California, 
Southwest, HI, Mexico: each $14.95 post- 
paid from Ulysses Press, 
PO Box 3440, Berkeley, CA 
94703; 510/601-8301 
