220 
Family 
MEDIA LITERACY 
Center for Media Literacy 
You think you live in an over-mediafied 
culture? Your kid is going to live in a 
world of wall-to-wall media. You'd best 
educate her on how to deal with it 
That means knowing not only how to 
choose among the media options but 
how to look at each of them critically. 
This tiny nonprofit puts out trenchant 
material to help you do that. Their 
provocative quarterly newsletter, Con- 
nect, is free to members; they also 
publish “Media Literacy Workshop 
Kits” that inculcate critical thinking. 
These are erudite without being book- 
ish, forceful without being overbeaning. 
The CML is fighting the good fight; it 
ought to be your fight. —Phil Catalfo 
Center for Media Literacy: |962 South 
Shenandoah Street, Los Angeles, CA 90034; 
800/226-9494; 310/559-2944. 
Big World, Small Screen 
The American Psychological Associa- 
tion formed a committee to digest all 
the research on the effects of televi- 
sion; this is their report. It is a sobering 
| read, and a surprisingly accessible one, 
given the usually turgid style of 
academic work like this. 
The bad news: too much TV-watching 
is definitely associated with undesir- 
able characteristics like violent/aggres- 
sive behavior and poor reading 
achievement. The good news: it is 
probably not the sole cause. The best 
news: you have more influence than 
the TV — if you exert it. This book 
doesn't go into solutions much, but 
| that’s what CML and the like are for. 
—PC 
e 
McLuhan’s basic notion that “the medium is 
the message” has had a wide appeal to 
scholars as well as others, but translating it 
| into a more specific theory or verifiable hy- 
potheses has proved to be a formidable 
task. Salomon conducted a series of investi- 
| gations that demonstrated that children 
could learn specific mental skills from see- 
ing certain filmic codes. For instance, 
watching slow zooms in to details of a large 
picture taught children visual analytic skills. 
A group of Israeli children who watched 
Sesame Street showed improved ability to 
take different spatial perspectives when 
looking at a setting. Greenfield also cited 
some evidence to support the hypothesis 
that television may promote visual spatial 
skills and be particularly well-suited for 
| conveying information using motion, anima- 
tion, and close-up photography. On the 
whole, however, the evidence for lasting 
changes in cognitive processing as a result 
of television viewing is weak. 
The hypothesis that television leads to a 
loss of creativity and imagination has met a 
similar fate; it is difficult to test and the ex- 
isting evidence provides little support. In 
the British Columbia study, children 
showed reduced performance on one of 
two measures of creativity after television 
was introduced. Cross-media investigations 
comparing radio with television show that 
children generate visual images when listen- 
ing, but television inspires different types of 
imaginative activities. It is arbitrary to de- 
cide that one type of imagining is of a 
higher quality than the other. Moreover, 
any casual observer of children is well 
aware that television characters and con- 
tent serve as the basis for a great deal of 
imaginative play. 
Big World, Small Screen 
Aletha C. Huston, et al. 1992; 
195 pp. ISBN 0-8032-7263-4 
$12 ($15.50 postpaid) from University 
of Nebraska Press, 901 N. 17th Street, 327 
Nebraska Hall, Lincoln, NE 68588-0520; 
800/755-1105 
Mind and Media: Patricia Marks Greenfield. 
| 
1984, Harvard University Press. 
Children and Television: Gordon L. Berry 
and Joy Keiko Asamen, Edis. 1993, SAGE Publi- 
cations. 
Television and the American Child: George 
Comstock with Haejung Paik. 1991, Academic 
Press (HBJ). More heavyweight reviews of the 
academic (i.e., research) landscape. 
The National Foundation to Improve Tele- 
vision: 60 State Street, Suite 3400, Boston, MA 
02109; 617/523-6353, fax. This single-issue group 
works “to reduce the amount of excessive dra- 
matized violence shown on television.” That 
work takes the form of lobbying sponsors, sta- 
tions, networks, and the FCC. 
Children’s Television 
Resource & Education 
Center 
C-TREC also does workshops and pub- 
lishes educational materials, although 
not of the same depth or scope as 
CML. Parents may like their bite-sized 
“Breakouts” — capsule briefings on 
a given subject, e.g, helping children 
“survive” TV violence or video games. 
From what I've seen, C-TREC tends 
to be a bit more alarmist in tone than 
is probably useful. But they have pro- 
duced some very good materials, 
including Getting Along — A Social 
Skills Curriculum (for K-4, available 
on audiotape), and some programs 
for television and radio. It is not always 
perfectly artful, but it does model in- 
telligent, pro-social behavior for kids, 
and we don't get that from our dis- 
infotainment channels yet. —PC 
e 
Q. Will playing action-adventure video 
games make my child violent? 
A. Maybe, maybe not. First let’s face facts. 
Although there are some great educational 
video games coming into the market, the 
most popular titles are still action-adven- 
ture games in which the player must shoot, 
smash, blowup or vaporize his or her en- 
emies in order to rack up the points and 
move to the next level of difficulty. 
So far, results of a few recent video game 
studies look a lot like the findings from ear- 
lier TV studies: that is to say, all things be- 
ing equal, playing violent video games can 
increase children’s aggressive behavior or 
tolerance for aggressive behavior in others. 
This appears especially true for preteens. 
However, and it's a BIG however, whether 
your video-playing child will be affected by 
these games depends on a number of fac- 
tors including: the amount of time a child 
spends playing these games, parents’ atti- 
tudes and behavior about violence, and the 
child’s exposure to TV, movie or real life 
violence. 
Children’s Television Resource 
& Education Center: 
340 Townsend Street, Suite 423, San Fran- 
cisco, CA 94107; 415/243-9943. 
Great Videos for Kids 
* The Family Video Guide 
Disgusted by the “vast wasteland"? Con- 
vinced by everything else on this page that 
TV will bum away your kids’ IQ? These 
books help you find stuff you'll not only let 
your kids watch, but want to watch with 
them. Great Videos has a higher goo-goo 
quotient; let's say it's better for families 
with younger kids. The Family Video Guide 
has a surprisingly mature and tolerant 
range of films reviewed, and can help par- 
ents promote some pretty sophisticated 
social awareness with judicious viewing 
choices. —PC 
e 
The Blackboard Jungle. Glenn Ford, 
Sidney Poitier, Anne Francis, Vic Morrow, 
Richard Kiley. 1955, B&W, 101 minutes. 
New teacher Ford is given a memorably 
rough time by teenage toughs at a New 
York City all-boys vocational school with a 
notorious discipline problem. This seminal 
1950s juvenile delinquent picture shocked 
the nation with its grim take on urban 
youth crime and its disturbing implication 
of things to come. First “youth movie” to 
understand the pivotal cultural role of rock 
and roll, then in its infancy, by grafting 
“Rock Around the Clock” onto the other- 
wise all-jazz sound track. Poitier’s break- 
through movie and the film debut of Mor- 
row later the star of television's “Combat.” 
Not rated. Most appreciated by ages ten 
and over. —The Family Video Guide 
Great Videos for Kids 
Catherine Cella. 1992; 157 pp. 
ISBN 0-8065-1377-2 
$7.95 ($10.95 postpaid) from Carol 
Publishing Group, 120 Enterprise Avenue, 
Secaucus, NJ 07094; 800/447-2665 
The Family Video Guide 
Terry Catchpole & Catherine Catchpole. 
1992; 188 pp. ISBN 0-913589-64-0 
$12.95 ($15.45 postpaid) from Williamson 
Publishing Co., PO Box 185, Church Hill 
Road, Charlotte, VT 05445; 800/234-879| 
