24 
Whole Systems 
ANTHROPOLOGY 
Anthropology — Its Demise 
Anthropology started with colonialism. The conquerors said: “These people 
are weird. Better to know them in order to control them.” Anthro was a more 
compassionate tool than genocide but it carried, and continues to carry, the 
karma of conquest (see Cultural Survival, pp. 72-73). 
Twenty-first-century anthropology turns its tools on itself. De-program 
yourself from your own culture. See the weirdness of your own household or 
workplace or — most important — what mental and economic attachments 
push your culture into military or intellectual conquest. If you’re a Christian, 
argue why the Hopi religion is preferable. If you’re an American, argue for the 
benefits of living in Ethiopia. Not so easy. 
Anthropology remains a crucial study, but not as an isolated discipline. 
Anthros need to do something else after they study anthropology. In the 
United States, anthros should be required to serve in public office — just to 
see if their insights about power and culture really make any sense. All anthros 
need to speak a non-Indo-European language and to study novels. 
Anthropology still provides certain mental tools that can free you from 
cultural pain and suffering (see The Savage Mind, page 38). These “attachments” 
include kinship (the need to do some dastardly, counterproductive deed 
because of biological or fictive family), taboos (the need to avoid certain words, 
ideas, or deeds even if they would restore kindness or peace or justice), rites 
of passage (the need to understand and celebrate birth, adulthood, death), and 
“non-everyday experience” (a.k.a. the “exotic” or strange, be it music, 
psychedelics, art, clothes, or customs). —PVW 
Just do it. Leam the symbols from The 
Manual for Kinship Analysis (rather ar- 
chaic, but the only simple kinship manual) 
and chart your own kin or a friend's. Re- 
member to include “fictive” kinship in 
another color. Fictive kin are those aunts 
and uncles or cousins or bros that are not 
blood-related. Remarkable discussions re- 
sult. Your aunt's former husband married a 
divorced aunt from the other side of the 
family? The first gay in the family was in 
1940! He had a stable household for 
thirty years! 
We can only remember three generations, 
Aborigines know seven. I'm a street kid 
with no biological family but, dude, | 
got brothers. 
Kinship and Mariage will show you that 
no kinship chart is isolated from the ex- 
change of humans by mariage, children, or 
economics. It remains a stunning survey of 
the planet's complex exchanges despite a 
rather naive attachment to structured 
households. After you've made your chart, 
figure out your own exchanges: who got 
the kittens from whom? How did inhent- 
ance change the kinship relations? Did the 
dope or homemade jam get passed 
around? Who sends Christmas cards 
to whom, and why or why not? 
The Nuer is the classic of kin and cattle 
exchanges in the ecology of the planet's 
largest inland swamp. As | Lay Dying Is 
anthropology challenged by the more hu- 
man insights of a great novelist. The lines 
between fact and fiction are human- 
drawn. Good stories make for good kin- 
ship. No good scholarly books on American 
kinship exist. Try your library for Uncertain 
Terms. 
For deeper self-probing, go to The Source; 
read The Tape-Recorded Interview and 
tape members of the kin chart who sur- 
prised you. —PW 
e 
White ox good is my mother 
And we the people of my sister, 
The people of Nyariau Bul. 
As my black-rumped white ox, 
When | went to court the winsome lassie, 
| am not a man whom girls refuse. 
We court girls by stealth in the night, 
land Kwejok 
Nyadeang. —The Nuer 
ee 
American Ways 
The fish is said to be the last one to 
recognize the water. American Ways 
charts US cultural waters to prepare 
international students for the strange- 
ness they will encounter there. It's an 
eye-opener. The biggest surprises are 
the assumptions and practices we 
take so much for granted that we 
have stopped noticing them. See also 
DeToqueville's Democracy In America, 
p. 29. —Michael K. Stone 
e 
Many Americans do not display the same 
degree of respect for their parents that 
people in more traditional or family-ori- 
ented societies commonly display. They 
have the conception that it was a sort of 
historical or biological accident that put 
them in the hands of particular parents, 
that the parents fulfilled their responsibili- 
ties to the children when the children were 
young, and now that the children have 
reached the “age of independence” the close 
child-parent tie is loosened, if not broken. 
ies — 
Vays 
American 
Ways 
(A Guide for 
Foreigners to 
the United States) 
Gary Althen. 
1988; 192 pp. 
ISBN 0-933662-68-8 
$14.95 ($16.95 postpaid) from Intercultural 
Press Inc., PO Box 700, Yarmouth, ME 
04096; 207/846-5168 
e 
When they are in a situation where physical 
contact is unavoidable, Americans will typi- 
cally try to draw in their shoulders and 
arms so as to minimize the amount of 
space they occupy. They will tolerate con- 
tact on the outsides of their arms when 
their arms are hanging straight down from 
their shoulders, but contacts with other 
parts of the body make them extremely 
anxious. When they are in a tightly 
crowded situation, such as a full elevator 
(“lift”) or bus, they will generally stop talk- 
ing or will talk only in very low voices. 
Their discomfort is easy to see. 
fe) 
Three lines begin in the second generation and a fourth line 
has arisen in the third. If the oldest female ancestor shown 
were forgotten, then there would be at least three lineages. 
It is tempting to think that many peoples have kept lineage 
organization intact by substituting mythical ancestors for 
forgotten ancestors. That is, many peoples do relate their 
oldest known ancestor (the lineage founder) to a mythical 
being who is ancestoral to other lineage founders. 
—The Manual for Kinship Analysis 
Manual For Kinship Analysis. Ernest Schusky. 
1965, 1983; 104 pp. ISBN 0-8191-3493-7 
$14.50 ($17.50 postpaid) from University Press 
of America, 4720 Boston Way, Lanham, MD 
20706; 800/462-6420 
Kinship and Marriage: An Anthropological 
Perspective. Robin Fox. 1967, 1984, Cambridge 
University Press. 
The Nuer. (A Description of the Modes of 
Livelihood and Political Institutions of a Nilotic 
People). Edward S. Evans-Pritchard. 1940; 
ISBN 0-19-500322-5 
$15.95 ($17.95 postpaid) from Oxford 
University Press/Order Dept., 2001 Evans Road, 
Cary, NC 27513; 800/451-7556 
As | Lay Dying. William Faulkner. 1991, Random 
House, Inc. 
Uncertain Terms: Negotiating Gender in 
American Culture. Faye Ginsburg & Anna Tsing, 
Editors. 1992, Beacon Press. 
Rites of Passage 
When is an embryo human? At concep- 
tion? At three months? At birth? After it is 
named or has functional sexual organs? 
America is a lost tribe on the subject. 
When is a child an adult? (No war for the 
boys; few or no children for the girls.) After 
the first menstruation ceremony on a full 
moon? 
Commercials want everyone to always look 
between twenty-five and thirty. America 
has no generally accepted rite of passage. 
Rites of Passage is the classic about a 
time when it seemed to all make sense. 
Generations is an attempt to understand 
Sound and Sentiment 
A saxophone player goes to New Guinea and writes 
about his emotions (a taboo subject of anthros), music, 
and birdsong. The best music-in-culture book. Full of 
weeping doves reminding families of their love for 
each other. —PW 
Sound and Sentiment 
(Birds, Weeping, Poetics and Song in Kaluli Expression) 
Steven Feld. 1990; 312 pp. ISBN 0-8122-1299-1 
$19.95 ($22.45 postpaid) from University of Pennsyl- 
vania Press, PO Box 4836, Hampden Sta., Baltimore, 
MD 21211-4836; 800/445-9880 
The Source 
Simply the best genealogy book 
to get if you buy only one. It goes 
into great detail about where to 
look, and even where not to look. 
For instance, it tells you not to 
count on finding military records 
from 1912 to 1959, because a 
disastrous fire bumed 80 per- 
cent of them in 1973. For 
additional books, software and 
indices, start with the free Ances- 
try Catalog. —Bob Mitchell 
the passage between adults and children 
in the history of the United States. 
Celebrations asks: in the twenty-first cen- 
tury, will every individual be a tribe? —PW 
Rites of Passage. Arnold Van Gennep. Monika B. 
Vizedon & Gabrielle L. Caffee, translators. 1961, 
University of Chicago Press. 
Generations: The History of America’s Future, 
1584-2069. William Strauss & Neil Howe. 1992, 
William Morrow and Co. 
Celebrations: Studies in Festivity and Ritual. 
Victor Turner, Editor. 1982, Smithsonian 
Institution Press (Out of Print). 
Taboos 
How many Americans share their IRS 
forms (Here, see mine!)? How many cor- 
porations open their pollutant control data 
to the public? How many men walk down 
the street holding hands? Taboos are ram- 
pant. They are dangerous. They help 
define the “purity” of one people vs. an- 
other. You don't hear the president say to 
the ambassador from Israel: “Hey, bro’, 
take five.” Spotting taboos is a mental ex- 
ercise. To break taboos is to become 
David Bowie, or an asshole. In Pigs for the 
Ancestors, taboos serve an ecological 
function. —PW 
Pigs for the Ancestors: Ritual in the Ecology of a 
New Guinea People. Roy Rappaport. 1984, Yale 
University Press. 
Purity and Danger: An Analysis of Concepts of 
Pollution and Taboo. Mary Douglas. 1966, 1970, 
Praeger Publishers (Out of Print). 
Language, Thought and Reality: Selected Writings 
of Benjamin Lee Whorf. John B. Carroll, Editor. 
1956, MIT Press. 
e 
In family plots, it is frequently possible to 
determine family relationships from the 
relative positions of the graves. Usually the 
dominant couple or parents are in the cen- 
ter with a large stone while children have 
smaller stones. Positioning of graves can 
also indicate national origins. Scandinavians 
seem to position plots with the father in 
the lower right-hand corner, the mother 
next to him, with children and spouses 
placed in order of death clockwise around 
a large stone bearing the family name. 
The Source 
(A Guidebook of American Genealogy) 
Arlene H. Eakle & Johni Cerny, Editors. 
1984; 786 pp. ISBN 0-916489-00-0 
$39.95 ($43.95 postpaid) 
Ancestry Catalog (free) 
Both from Ancestry, PO Box 476, Salt Lake 
City, UT 84110; 800/531-1790 
The Tape-Recorded Interview 
Some of your local history is in records, 
but a lot more of it is in minds. Here's 
how to ensure it's in both. When 
you're an old geezer, wouldn't you like 
to be asked what really happened 
back in 1993? —SB 
The Tape-Recorded Interview 
(A Manual for Field Workers in Folklore 
and Oral History) 
Edward D. Ives. University of Tennessee 
Press, 1980; 144 pp. ISBN 0-87049-291-8 
$6.95 ($9.95 postpaid) from Chicago Distri- 
bution Center, | 1030 S. Langley Avenue, 
Chicago, IL 60628; 800/621-2736 
