32 Whole Systems 
SPIRITUALITY 
Two Series: World Spirituality * The Classics of Western Spirituality 
The last decade has seen the ongoing 
publication of two exciting series of 
books from religious publishers. Both 
are notable for their ecumenical 
sweep and for their emphasis on spiri- 
tual depth. And both have issued 
affordable paperback editions, thus 
making them easy to acquire. Because 
of their range, it is unlikely that all vol- 
umes will be of equal interest to every 
reader. No matter: each book stands 
well on its own. Libraries, however, will 
want to cany these series as full sets. 
Crossroad's series, World Spirituality, 
brings together more than five hun- 
dred scholars spanning the world’s 
religions and spiritual paths. The his- 
tory of each culture's religious quest is 
examined and presented in an engag- 
ing fashion. Each volume focuses on a 
different tradition and/or span of time 
(such as Jewish Spirituality: From the 
Bible to the Middle Ages, Taoist 
Spirituality, or Islamic Spirituality: 
Foundations), and special emphasis is 
placed on the relations of the religions 
to the individual's inner experience. 
Paulist Press's series, The Classics of 
Western Spirituality, takes a different 
tack. It presents fresh translations of 
writings by the greatest thinkers and 
teachers of Westem religion (Jewish, 
Christian, Islamic, and Native Ameri- 
can). Each volume is a different classic 
or selection of short writings and let- 
ters from the likes of Origen, Ibn Al 
Arabi, Catherine of 
Siena, Abraham 
Isaac Kook, and Philo of Alexandria. 
Extensive introductions and commen- 
tary help draw out the implications 
of the classics, making them newly 
relevant for modem readers. 
Sik 
e 
And in this he showed me something small, 
no bigger than a hazelnut, lying in the palm 
of my hand, as it seemed to me, and it was 
as round as a ball. | looked at it with the 
eye of my understanding and thought: 
What can this be? | was amazed that it 
could last, for | thought that because of its 
littleness it would suddenly have fallen into 
nothing. And | was answered in my under- 
standing: It lasts and always will, because 
God loves it; and thus everything has being 
through the love of God. 
In this little thing | saw three properties. 
The first is that God made it, the second is 
that God loves it, the third is that God pre- 
serves it. —Julian of Norwich: Showings 
(Classics) 
e 
A man asked God for a son. A hermaphro- 
dite was born to him. He said: “O God, | 
asked You for a son, but You have given 
me a hermaphrodite.” He heard a voice: “| 
know how to give, but you do not know 
how to ask!” Whoever does not know how 
to ask will acquire nothing but regret. 
Whoever worships God because he desires 
heaven is a slave of his own desire. Who- 
ever worships Him out of a fear of hell is a 
slave of hell, for anyone who is afraid of 
anything is a slave of that thing. By the same 
token, whoever puts his hope in anything is 
a slave of that thing. Your true reality is 
that which is within your breast. A man is 
where his heart is! —Sharafuddin Maneri: 
The Hundred Letters (Classics) 
Joseph Campbell and the Power of Myth * The Mahabharata 
Every time we're tempted to tout 
books as the unsurpassed medium for 
conveying ideas, something comes 
along to remind us that spoken words 
and facial gestures preceded print and 
will probably outlast it. These two vid- 
eotape sets are happy reminders that 
the small and large screens are as ca- 
pable of affecting our higher emotions 
as anything on the surrounding pages, 
The PBS series where Bill Moyers inter- 
viewed scholar Joseph Campbell was 
vastly popular, and with good reason. 
Campbell made myths and their 
meanings come alive for a modem 
audience too often separated from 
its own past and assaulted by a hit- 
and-run pop culture devoid of true 
inspiration. These shows age well 
precisely because they touch on the 
timeless themes of human experience 
that are always with us, —/K 
e 
The Mahabharata is Peter Brook's film 
adaptation of the great epic of India. 
It focuses on the struggle between two 
clans of heroes, the virtuous Pandavas 
and the arrogant Kauravas, reflecting 
the constant seesaw between the 
forces of order and disorder in the uni- 
verse. One of its main themes is how 
an individual should behave in times of 
disorder. Brook's film features a su- 
perb international cast and a tight 
sense of drama (though the first hour 
or so, which attempts to depict the 
heroes’ mythological origins, is weaker 
than the rest). Both sensitive and dy- 
namic, it manages to avoid the cheap 
sensationalizing that comes out of 
most attempts to dramatize great 
works of literature. —Richard Smoley 
The Power of Myth 
6-tape set, 6 hours 
Joseph Campbell. 
$124.95 ($131.90 postpaid) from Mystic 
Fire Video, PO Box 2249, Livonia, Ml 
48150; 800/292-9001 
The Mahabharata 
3-tape set, 6 hours 
$99 ($106.95 postpaid) from Pacific Spirit, 
1334 Pacific Avenue, Forest Grove, OR 
97116; 800/634-9057 
IRITUALITY — meaning the lived 
experience of inner growth and unfold- 
ing “spirit” concealed beneath all the 
dogmas and institutions of religions — is 
slippery stuff. It doesn’t make the evening news 
and it isn’t much help in furthering assorted 
ideological agendas. Its gifts are subtle and rarely 
“cutting edge.” In fact, the best tool for spiritual 
exploration may simply be to shut up, close your eyes, and sit 
quietly and observantly for a short stretch every morning. 
However, the mind likes something to chew on between bouts of 
quiet, and the following items are good for digesting the basics 
ofa spiritual life. Faced with choosing a mere handful of items 
out of an infinity of traditions and approaches, we tilted 
in two directions: toward engaging overviews, and 
classic texts. —Jay Kinney 
e 
It is a risky business to 
claim that one loves God! 
The reason for this has 
been well put by Khwaja 
Fuzail: “If someone asks, 
‘Do you love God?’ remain 
silent. For if you reply in 
the negative, that would be 
infidelity; while if you reply 
that you do, you would be 
lacking a quality of lovers, 
and your love would be in 
danger!” Understanding 
that anyone who claims 
that he loves does about 
the easiest thing in the 
world, but actual loving, 
ah! that is extremely diffi- 
cult! —Sharafuddin 
Maneri: The Hundred 
Letters (Classics) 
e 
The monastic tradition of spiritual father- 
hood/motherhood is the phenomenon in 
early Christianity that most closely re- 
sembles the phenomenon of spiritual 
master and disciple in the other great 
spiritual traditions. The “abba” of early 
Christian monasticism played a role quite 
similar to that of the Hindu guru, Zen 
master, or Sufi sheik. The desert fathers/ 
mothers stand out as the preeminent 
spiritual guides of the early Christian era. 
These desert fathers/mothers were the 
first Christian monks and nuns who from 
the fourth to the sixth century peopled the 
deserts and wilderness regions of Egypt, 
Palestine, and Syria. Though the origins of 
Christian monastic life are complex, cer- 
tainly one of the strongest factors was the 
simple fact that people were drawn to the 
desert to find an “elder,” an accomplished 
ascetic and spiritual teacher capable of lead- 
ing other persons to a greater experience 
of God. —Christian Spirituality |: Origins to 
the Twelfth Century (World Spirituality) 
World Spirituality 
(An Encyclopedic History 
of the Religious Quest) 
Ewert Cousins, General Editor. 
Crossroad Publishing Co., 
12 volumes; $49.50 average 
price from Publisher Resources/ 
Crossroad, PO Box 7001, 
La Vergne, TN 37086-7001; 
800/937-5557 
The Classics of 
Western Spirituality 
78 volumes; $18-$25 each from 
Paulist Press, 997 MacArthur 
201/825-7300 
The Electric Mystic’s Guide to the Internet 
Michael Strangelove operates a number of electronic publishing projects, including 
Contents and Review-L, which discuss current publications in religious studies. 
He describes his 5,/35-line file, The Electric Mystic’s Guide to the Internet, Vol. |, 
as “A Complete Directory of Networked Electronic Documents, Online Confer- 
ences, Serials, Software, and Archives Relevant to Religious Studies.” 
Most of what I've learned about spirituality on the Internet started with checking 
out sources he lists. Many discussions of spirituality and religion are going on today 
on the Intermet. Anyone with access to the Internet can join these discussions. 
The EMG is available by “anonymous ftp” from Strangelove in Ottawa from the 
node panda |.uottowa.ca in the directory /pub/religion/. [See p. 264 for discussion 
of ftping on Internet.] —Bruce Schuman 
The Sufis 
Sufism represents a substantial path 
of mystical inquiry, most commonly 
seen as the nondogmatic inner heart 
of Islam. Idries Shah recasts Sufism in 
terms of Western psychology, asserts 
its importance as a largely unacknowl- 
edged influence on world history, and 
shares numerous anecdotes and in- 
triguing factoids. Many scholars look 
askance at this book's claims and its 
lack of substantiating footnotes, and 
they have a point. But several dozen 
books along in further reading, The 
Sufis remains unsurpassed for provid- 
ing both the big picture and the 
motivation for further study. —K 
e 
The process by means of which a foreign 
word or phrase becomes adopted into 
another language is well established in lit- 
erature and custom. There are numerous 
examples and the system has even been 
named, being catalogued in dictionaries as 
Hobson-Jobson. The interminable religious 
chant in India Ya Hasan Ya Hussein (O 
Hasan! O Hussein!) is accepted in English 
under the sound Hobson-Jobson, an at- 
tempt by British soldiers to reproduce the 
chant. The standard Indian dictionary of 
Anglo-Indian terms, containing many ex- 
amples of the process, is actually called 
Hobson-Jobson. In West Africa the Arabic 
word el-ghaita (a bagpipe) has been angli- 
cized into “alligator.” Nearer home, all 
Londoners are familiar with the name of a 
certain tavern, the “Elephant and Castle,” 
originally named the Infanta de Castile. 
Richard J. Payne, Editor-in-Chief. 
Boulevard, Mahwahm, NJ 07430; 
