FRA 
126 Community 
GREEN CITY 
pone Sustainable Cities 
a: 
In a profoundly anti-urban society, it is 
refreshing to find a book written by 
people with a city-positive attitude. 
This resource is a product of the “new 
partnership” between the forces for 
urban growth and the movement for a 
sustainable environment. An anthology 
of essays by environmentalists, devel- 
opers, architects, planners, and politi- 
cians, it does a good job of covering 
the emerging principles of eco-city de- 
sign, planning, politics, and economics; 
however, the book's main contribution 
is its coverage of projects that are cur- 
rently underway in Los Angeles and 
across the country. It also offers an ex- 
tensive resource guide to organizations 
and publications on every aspect of 
the sustainable city, including 
permaculture, community building, 
resource-efficient architecture, and 
livelihoods. —Ray Tomalty 
Ecocity Berkeley 
Ecocity Berkeley 
Richard Register. 1987; 
144 pp. ISBN 1-55643-009-4 
$10.95 ($13.45 postpaid) from 
North Atlantic Books, PO Box 12327, 
Berkeley, CA 94701; 510/559-8277 
Richard Register has been at the fore- 
front of the movement to rebuild 
North American cities along ecological 
lines. He designed this book to help 
that process, asking us to think and 
dream a little together. Part one de- 
tails many of the new design ideas 
gaining wide acceptance as antidotes 
to the ecological and social destruction 
wrought by urban sprawl: compact, di- 
verse, liveable cities based on mixed 
land uses and proximity rather than 
mobility. Part two applies these ideas 
to Berkeley, CA in what amounts to a 
| 40-year plan for transforming the city 
into an ecotopia. A rich scenery of il- 
lustrations helps us visualize our way 
along this path. —Ray Tomalty 
Sustainable Cities 
Bob Walter, Lois Arkin 
& Richard Crenshaw. 
1992; 354 pp. ISBN 0-963351 1-0-9 
$20 ($23.50 postpaid) from Eco-Home 
Media, 4344 Russell Avenue, Los Angeles, 
CA 90027; 213/662-5207 
e 
The trend over the past 40 years has been 
to integrate more parking into the land use, 
whether residential, commercial, or indus- 
trial, and to favor off-site parking over on- 
street parking. So much is typically re- 
quired, that if any change were to be made, 
many empty spaces would result. In the Los 
Angeles area, this has resulted in the pecu- 
liar situation in which Air Quality Regula- 
tion 15, limiting the number of vehicles 
used to bring people to work, now creates 
an imbalance in which the parking spaces 
required by most zoning codes are not all 
used. If carpooling is to be encouraged, 
then this should be reflected in regulations 
that call for fewer employee parking places. 
The Urban Ecologist 
This newsletter is a valuable resource 
for those who are committed to im- 
proving life in their city, suburb, or eco- 
village off the subway. The organiza- 
tion that puts it together, Urban 
Ecology, is a river of eco-city passion 
and commitment. The articles and 
news bits from urban activists all over 
the world cover all fronts: urban na- 
ture, housing, transportation, econom- 
ics, advocacy strategy. These people 
know their sidewalks and the waters 
that run under them. 
—Whitney Smith 
Fragmented 
Gnidiron 
Parallel 
(c. 1900) 
ic. 1950) 
=) 
Street 
Pattems 
1 x 
Intersections 
|>° 
xe 
x x x mt 
x * x 
»~ 
Lineal Feet of 
20,800 
19,000 
16,500 
15,300 
The Urban Ecologist 
$30/year (membership includes 4 issues). 
Urban Ecology, PO Box 10144, Berkeley, 
CA 94709; 415/549-1724 
Warped 
Loops and 
Parallel 
Lollipops 
ic. 1960 
Lollipops 
Neighborhood Street Patterns: Different street designs create vastly different urban communi- 
ties. The traditional gridiron, though often insensitive to contour and ecological features, cre- 
ated a fine-grained, well-connected and diverse urban fabric. Suburban patterns have less street 
frontage and far fewer intersections and neighborhood access points. Within these communi- 
ties automobile traffic gets channeled to a few intersections and arterials, and it is difficult to 
bicycle or walk from one point to another. 
e 
As the nation’s 39,000 shopping centers 
and malls age, a growing number are being 
torn down and recycled into housing or 
more ecologically appropriate mixed-use 
developments. . 
.. Nationwide, the Chi- 
cago-based Real Estate Research Corpora- 
tion has estimated that 10-15 percent of the 
nation’s malls will be abandoned and ripe for 
redevelopment in the coming years. 
e 
Where trees and buildings block sun and 
air movement, the microclimate is generally 
much cooler and more moist. Tall buildings 
are often said to “cause” windy streets. But 
this is no more true than saying redwood 
trees, the tallest in nature, cause windy can- 
yons. In fact, the stillness at the base of 
these giants is almost spooky sometimes. 
The relationship between buildings and 
streets — and open parking lots and parks 
— and the direction of the winds relative 
to the layout of the streets determines 
whether the streets are swept by the wind 
or not. 
e 
If American building codes, city ordinances 
and zoning — even solar access and per- 
sonal liability laws — were applied retroac- 
tively to the wonderful old cities of Europe, 
the Second World War would look friendly 
by comparison: it would all have to go. Too 
many people live in spaces too small and 
odd-shaped served by too little electricity 
— not enough safety measure: too few 
walls around canals, often no banisters on 
steps which are usually too steep or nar- 
row, too few giant signs for speeding cars, 
wide roads, bright city lights at night. The 
narrow streets of the old city centers 
would run afoul of solar access regulations. 
Many trees, especially fruit and nut trees, 
would have to be eliminated. Their crime: 
producing nutritious food that can fall with 
a squish into the public domain. 
Downwind 
Greening cities is more than just a 
matter of generic street trees and 
astroturf-like median strips. It's about 
retrieving a sense of the original biotic 
community that hosted the city's 
formation, discerning that first 
community's lingering presence, and 
celebrating it, the round of the sea- 
sons, and the many opportunities for 
real good work that cities present. 
Downwind, edited in and for Chicago's 
environs by Beatrice Briggs, ace urban 
bioregional organizer, handily abets 
those activities and more with a cal- 
endar of field trips and other events 
Great Streets: Allan B. Jacobs. 1993, 
The MIT Press. 
A Green City Program: Peter Berg, Beryl 
Magilavy, & Seth Zuckerman. 1991, Wingbow 
Press. This was going to be the most prominent 
review on this page. But—awk!—it’s out of print. 
and salutary editorials. An example for 
other city bioregionalists to follow and 
a must-read for residents of the Wild 
Onion bioregion. 
—Stephanie Mills 
e 
To say that Chicago has only two seasons, 
winter and road construction, almost al- 
ways gets a laugh, but such comments en- 
tirely disregard the nuanced turning of the 
wheel of the year in this bioregion. Like 
children who are unfairly labeled “stupid” in 
school, we come to believe the untrue 
things said about our home place. Soon we 
too start saying mean, critical, derogatory 
things, mostly because we do not know 
Downwind 
$10/year from Wild Onion Alliance, 3432 
N. Bosworth Street, Chicago, IL 60657 
how to do anything else. What, through ei- 
ther ignorance or fear, we cannot praise, 
we put down. We do it to each other. We 
do it to ourselves. We do it to the place 
we live. Pretty soon we find ourselves stuck 
with self esteem problems, a fragile social 
network and a steadily deteriorating eco- 
system. 
The alternative to such verbal trashing is 
not to witlessly proclaim, “I Love Chicago,” 
but to be far more place-specific and less 
human-centered in our boosterism. 
