Shy 
Nomadics 
FLYING THE FRIENDLY SKIES 
NCE, WHILE | WAS CLIMBING the flanks of 
the southern Sierra Nevada, | unexpectedly 
came upon one of the premier hang-gliding 
F 
launch sites in North America. 
Walt’s Leap hangs almost 
a mile above the floor of 
Owens Valley, an edge- 
of-the-world sort of spot. 
One after another, as | 
watched, the “pilots” 
steadied their craft, took 
a few running steps, and 
soared out into the sky... 
for miles. One pilot was 
particularly choosy about 
his takeoff, waiting for the 
wind to be just right. 
When finally he stepped 
into the void, he didn’t 
float into the valley as the 
others had done; he spi- 
raled nearly straight up, riding the thermals blowing up out of the valley. | 
watched for fifteen minutes until he was just a speck — and still rising. Word 
has it that someone once flew more than 200 miles from Walt’s Leap, touching 
down two states away! 
Those who would be eagles can learn how to fly through the United States 
Hang Gliding Association (USHGA), a self-supporting, nonprofit organization 
based in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Currently numbering about | 1,000 
members, the association is a clearinghouse for information on what they call 
“the purest form of flight.” A $54 annual membership makes you part of the 
USHGA’s Pilot Rating System and includes a subscription to Hang Gliding 
magazine. You also get voting privileges in local and regional elections, 
eligibility for awards, affiliation with the National Aeronautical Association and 
the Federation Aeronautique International, and even $1,000,000 (per occur- 
rence) liability insurance; this has opened many flying sites to hang gliding. 
The association is nationally subdivided into twelve regions — primarily for the 
purpose of electing locally savvy regional directors, but also in consideration 
of local hang gliding patterns, climatic and topographical conditions, and 
population density. The USHGA handbook outlines the organization’s history 
and provides information on programs, events, and awards, as well as 
regulatory, policy, and technical data. Hang Gliding is a great resource for 
instruction and technique, glider design, competitions, locations, and related 
literature. 
If your interest runs to paragliding — a cross between hang gliding and 
parachuting — the USHGA is still the umbrella organization. Paragliders look 
like parachutes, but they are designed for soaring. A paraglider is an inflatable 
fabric canopy whose twelve to twenty-four cells are connected by a stiff front 
rib. Suspension lines connect the canopy with a seat harness, which the pilot 
uses along with a steering line to control direction, speed, and lift. 
Most paragliders weigh less than twenty pounds, and some are designed 
to fold up and fit ina backpack, enabling pilots to take flight from remote 
areas not accessible to hang gliders. The current men’s distance 
record is 88 miles; the woman’s record is 63 miles. At the extreme 
of paraglider design are propeller-driving “paramotors.” These are 
still in their infancy; lighter, cheaper engines are hitting the 
market each year. —Tom Valtin 
Hang Gliding * Paragliding 
About 9,000 of the USHGA's mem- 
bers are primarily hang gliders, the 
other 2,000 primarily paragliders. The 
latter group receives Paragliding, not 
Hang Gliding; other- 
wise, membership 
privileges are the 
same. —IV 
e 
As a basic rule of thumb 
you should plan on spend- 
ing an absolute minimum 
of $700 for a reasonably 
good used beginning 
glider, but $1,000 to 
$1,500 is more realistic 
when it comes to a quality 
used wing. Again, buy new 
if possible. 
United States Hang Gliding 
Association 
Membership $49/year, includes: 12 issues of 
Hang Gliding magazine or 6 issues of 
Paragliding—The Magazine, liability insur- 
ance, ratings, etc. From USHGA, PO Box 
8300, Colorado Springs, CO 80933; 
719/632-8300, fax 719/632-6417 
Don't buy a glider with 
lots of rust on the hard- 
ware. If the glider you're 
looking at has rusted bolts 
it’s not been taken care of 
very well. You should do 
a thorough inspection of 
the glider and its hard- 
ware. If you find rust on 
any of the bolts and/or 
other hardware you 
should also thoroughly inspect the alumi- 
num tubes for corrosion (inside and out). 
Corrosion on aluminum has a different 
look than corrosion on steel. On aluminum, 
corrosion will look like a white powder 
that is adhered to the corroded part. Usu- 
ally this will be found on the inside of 
aluminum tubes and under sleeves. 
Look very closely at the end of all 
sleeves and around bushings and riv- 
ets. If you discover any significant 
amount of corrosion, move on to the 
next glider. 
to mind. Some out-of-towners have heard 
about Little Black and Horse Canyon. One 
of the best kept secrets (oops!) in San Di- 
ego is Blossom Valley... . 
Just like everywhere else in Southern Cali- 
fornia, the launch area is dirt and rocks. It 
faces west and there’s enough room to 
have maybe two gliders laid out. Since it’s at 
one end of the valley, the launch isn’t too 
wind direction sensitive, as long as it’s 
blowing onshore. The main ridge is about 
Don’t buy a glider with dented or bent 
frame parts unless there is a profes- 
sional willing and able to fix the glider 
with the appropriate parts. It is nearly 
impossible to find parts for many glid- 
ers on the used market. If a leading 
edge or crossbar is damaged it may 
be necessary to remove the opposite, 
undamaged part and duplicate it with 
raw materials. This is extremely labor 
intensive, and by the time your “new” 
glider is ready to fly you may have 
more money in it than you had plan- 
ned on. The answer to this problem 
is to stick with a late model made by 
a manufacturer that is currently in 
business. —Hang Gliding 
one quarter mile long. Directly below 
launch is the “finger.” This is a little raised 
area with a road on top that’s easy to land 
on. If you get below launch and start getting 
low, chances are this is where you'll be 
landing. If this happens, pack your glider up 
and head for the road where one of your 
friends will pick you up. The worst thing 
you can do is to fly straight out and 
land in some farmer’s field in 
the valley. Don’t jeopar- 
dize the site by being a 
bonehead. —Paragliding 
e 
Mention paragliding and San Diego in 
the same breath and Torrey 
Pines is sure to come 
See 
Stormtrack 
(p. 83). 
