124 Community 
BIOTIC COMMUNITY 
tmay be that the reason our hankering for community has intensified lately 
is not only that We've lost our extended families and no longer reciprocate 
with our neighbors, but that the community of species to which we belong 
and the ecosystems that are.our real neighborhoods are now decimated. 
There’s much that’s particular to our species that’s critical to understand, of 
course, and most of what follows in these pages addresses the relationships 
of humans in groups, of individuals to groups, of nonviolent aggregates of homo 
sappys, generally, attempting to pursue some common good. 
To better the good, we need to understand that we’re part of a larger system 
that’s creative without benefit of intellect or altruism: Nature, our nature, call 
it “the Way.” The essential teaching of the living world can’t be book-learnt, 
only known directly. Seeking and noting its traces — in the rangy wild vitality 
of a vacant lot, in the pineal funk that descends as the winter days grow short, 
in the mysterious ability of a nicked finger to heal from within — reminds us 
that we're still biology and we can still- belong. —Stephanie Mills 
Sacred Land, Sacred Sex: Rapture of the Deep 
This compendious, scholarly, confes- 
sional book is a wildling. Anyone look- 
ing for a critical explanation of Euro- 
pean civ's ecocidal tendencies and the 
ancient (Taoist) and modem (contem- 
porary nature ritual)-countertendencies 
would be well advised to acquire a 
€opy and to spend some real time 
with it. Author Dolores LaChapelle is 
one of the most startling — and sen- 
sible — thinkers-on-the-page that you 
may, ever meet. She omits nothing, 
from sketches of the colonization’ of 
the New World, to an exaltation of D. 
HoLawrence as true naturé poet, to 
basic instructions for. making seasonal 
and, é€arth-calendrical ritual, to the 
practicé-of sacred Sex, to the way the 
gourd taught humans agriculture, to 
revelatory deep=powder skiing and 
mountaineering stories. —SM 
e 
THE SEVEN DEADLY DELUSIONS 
1) Ideas and ideal — dating back to Plato. 
2) The false dichotomy of spirit vs nature. 
3) Eurocentrism — that Europeans discoy- 
ered everything first and know how to run 
the world better than any other culture. 
4) Noosphere — that humans create the 
mind/wisdom of the earth. 
5) Anthropocentrism — that man is the 
most significant entity in the universe; there- 
fore the entire earth is for human “use.” 
Most traditional 
cultures had festi- 
vals to mark each 
of these 8 impor- 
tant stages of the 
year. 
Sacred Land, Sacred Sex: 
Rapture of the Deep 
(Concerning Deep Ecology 
and Celebrating Life ) 
Dolores LaChapelle. 1988; 382 pp. 
ISBN 1-882308-11-5 
$24.95 ($28.45 postpaid) from Kivaki Press, 
585.E. 3lst, Durango, CO 81301; 
800/578-5904 
6) Perfectionism. 
7) Tragic heroism. 
e 
In all European languages, locked as they 
are into the Greek grammar, we have a 
subject, (that which does the action), the 
verb (what is done), and the object (that 
which it is done to). Since, for the newly lit- 
erate Greek, there was no longer any im- 
plicit meaning in each letter or syllable of 
the sentence, he, himself, the writer or 
World As Lover, World As Self 
This is a profoundly important, pas- 
sionate book, one that truth-seekers, 
spiritually- motivated politicalactivists, 
and ordinary citizens with, their eyes 
open will find indispensable. It's 
roughly equal parts ‘autobiography, 
textbook, philosophical treatise, 
cheerleading manual, and blueprint for 
living in and changing a.degraded 
world. The.crux of the text is the 
Buddha's teaching of pattica 
samuppada. Reduced to deceptively 
| simple terms;-this says that everything 
| in the world— every object, feeling, 
reader, gave the meaning. For example, as 
Havelock explains: “In phonetic reading, 
these counterparts-are elements of sound 
usually meaningless in themselves, though 
the brain of him who is visually scanning the 
script...” etc. Thus we see how the writer 
or reader must of necessity give the mean- 
ing. From this itis only a short step to the 
illusion that man gives meaning to the rest 
of the world. Without the knower, (the 
reader or writer), the rest of the world has 
no meaning. 
e 
How can we begin to reweave the fabric of 
our broken, fragmented world? The first 
step is to fully acknowledge that we hu- 
mans can’t do it. The Tewa Chant, above, 
asks that the greater beings of our place do 
it for us: the white light of morning, the red 
light of evening and the rainbow; therefore, 
the first step is to set up structure which 
will invite the changing light of the sun or 
the moon or the storm or the sudden 
clearing; the light of the different seasons; 
and the various animals or plants that come 
with those seasons in each place. Once we 
do this, we begin to recognize the relation- 
ship between nature within us, the 
“inscape” and nature outside of us, the 
landscape. By ritual use of these structures 
through the seasons we begin to discover 
that there’s no one thing that causes every- 
thing else; we find that truly everything in 
the bioregion is interrelated. The entire 
bioregion is a single organism or, in 
Needham’s words, “the web that has no 
weaver.” 
The Practice of the Wild 
Like Gary Snyder's poetry, the prose in 
this collection of essays is usually out- 
side, going about its business. Being 
grounded in a sense of place lessens 
the chasm between thinking and act- 
ing. Spanning the last fifteen years, 
these essays offer a bioregional route 
through the debris accumulated from 
the clash between human civilization 
and the world's wild places. 
—Richard Nilsen 
e 
Bioregionalism is the entry of place into the 
dialectic of history. 
e 
We (who stand aside) stand on the lateral 
moraine of the glacier eased along by New- 
ton and Descartes. The revivified Goddess 
Gaia glacier is coming down another valley, 
from our distant pagan past, and another 
arm of ice is sliding in from another angle: 
the no-nonsense meditation view of Bud- 
dhism with its emphasis on compassion and 
insight in an empty universe. Someday they 
will probably all converge, and yet carry 
(like the magnificent Baltoro glacier in the 
Karakoram) streaks on each section that 
testify to their place of origin. Some histori- 
ans would say that “thinkers” are behind 
the ideas and mythologies that people live 
by. | think it also goes back to maize, rein- 
deer, squash, sweet potatoes, and rice. And 
their songs. 
It is appropriate to feel loyalty to a given 
glacier; it is advisable to investigate the 
whole water cycle; and it is rare and 
marvelous to know that glaciers do not 
always flow and that mountains are 
constantly walking. 
e 
Sometimes it seems unlikely that a society 
as a whole can make wise choices. Yet 
there is no choice but to call for the “re- 
covery of the commons” — and this in a 
modern world which doesn’t quite realize 
what it has lost. Take back, like the night, 
that which is shared by all of us, that which 
is our larger being. There will be no “trag- 
edy of the commons” greater than this: if 
we do not recover the commons — regain 
personal, local, community, and peoples’ di- 
World As Lover, World As Self 
Joanna Macy. 1991; 272 pp. 
ISBN 0-938077-27-9 
$15 ($18.50 postpaid) from Parallax Press, 
PO Box 7355, Berkeley, CA 94707; 
510/525-0101 
emotion, action — is influenced by 
a huge,_all-inclusive web of factors. 
Any change in the condition of any 
one thing in this web affects 
everything else, by virtue of their 
interconnectedness. 
Author Joanna Macy swoops from lofty 
contemplation through chatty pas- 
sages of autobiography to practical, 
day-to-day applications of insight. She 
Spent too many years working with the 
Peace Corps to be fond of ideas that 
only look good on paper. She presents 
concrete examples of systems theory 
— pattica samuppada in action at 
the personal, communal, national, and 
global levels. Most poignant in Macy's 
writings.is her advocacy for beings of 
other species and for the future. She 
advances the logic of interconn- 
ectedness across boundanes of time 
and space, and establishes as obvious 
and unshakable the responsibility 
humans of the present have to the 
| earth's entire population. 
—David Schneider 
e 
So long as we see ourselves as essentially 
separate, competitive, and ego-identified 
beings, it is difficult to respect the validity 
of our social despair, deriving as it does 
from interconnectedness. Both our capacity 
to grieve for others and our power to cope 
with this grief spring from the great matrix 
of relationships in which we take our being. 
We are, as open systems, sustained by 
flows of energy and information that ex- 
tend beyond the reach of conscious ego. 
e 
The process of development is perceived as 
being multidimensional. One’s personal 
awakening is integral to the awakening of 
one’s village, and both play integral roles 
in the awakening of one’s country and 
one’s world. 
rect involvement in sharing (in being) the 
web of the wild world — that world will 
keep slipping away. Eventually our compli- 
cated industrial capitalist/socialist mixes will 
bring down much of the living system that 
supports us. 
e 
The commons is a curious and elegant so- 
cial institution within which human beings 
once lived free political lives while weaving 
through natural systems. The commons is a 
level of organization of human society that 
includes the nonhuman. The level above the 
local commons is the bioregion. Under- 
standing the commons and its role within 
the larger regional culture is one more step 
toward integrating ecology with economy. 
The Practice of the Wild 
Gary Snyder. Farrar Straus Giroux, 1990; 
208 pp. ISBN 0-86547-454-0 
$11 ($13 postpaid) from Putnam Publishing 
Group/Order Dept., PO Box 506, 
East Rutherford, Nj 07073; 800/631-8571 
