gine Teahnology 
NOLOGY & CULTURE 227 
| 
Disappearing through the Skylight 
Everything we used to know as “the 
real world” is disappearing. That is 
the thesis of Disappearing through 
the Skylight, a cross-disciplinary ex- 
amination of something more funda- 
mental than future shock. 
The author focuses on changes in 
nature, history, language, art, and hu- 
man evolution that have taken place 
since the beginning of the twentieth 
century. 
“Because the changes have been fun- 
damental, the concepts — and even 
the vocabularies and images in which 
the concepts tend to be framed — no 
longer seem to objectify a real world. It 
is as though progress were making the 
real world invisible. 
‘This book is about the ways culture 
has changed in the past centuries, 
changing the identities of all those bom 
into it. Its metaphor for the effect of 
change on culture is ‘disappearance.””’ 
Our relationship with machines might 
already have altered our conceptions 
of ourselves; ‘Is the idea of what it is 
to be human disappearing, along with 
so many other ideas, through the 
modem skylights?” — HLR 
[Suggested by Shel Kaphan] 
Disappearing 
(Culture & Technology 
in the 20th Century) 
O. B. Hardison 
Jr. 
800/253-6476 
e 
Because of its close 
alliance with technology, architecture ob- 
jectifies the forms of modern culture with 
great clarity. Since the turn of the century, 
a global architectural style reflecting the 
state of the art at the moment of design:has 
begun to replace local and traditional styles. 
Thus a suspension bridge has the same 
form whether over a gorge in the 
Himalayas or the mouth of San Francisco 
Bay. A Hilton Hotel offers essentially the 
same accommodations whether in Tokyo 
or Denver, and the visible similarities are 
objective manifestations of invisible similari- 
ties in, for example, administrative struc- 
tures and accounting and financial policies. 
By the same token, a McDonald’s ham- 
burger is the same in New York and Rome, 
and a Pepsi-Cola produces the same 
bubbles in Vladivostok and Grand Rapids. In 
all of these cases, the effect of change has 
been the disappearance of regional and pa- 
rochial identities and the emergence of a 
global consciousness. 
Great Mambo Chicken and the Transhuman Condition 
The core beliefs of several different 
technology cults — immortality via 
cryonics, space colonies, biospheres, 
Dyson spheres, nanotechnology, artifi- 
cial life, downloading minds into com- 
puters — were gleefully seeded by 
Catalogs and CoEvs of years past. 
There are people behind all of these 
notions: people who want to freeze 
their heads in liquid nitrogen and store 
their brains until future scientists figure 
out how to reconstitute them, people 
who are worried about the fate of the 
galaxy because they plan to live that 
long. 
Ed Regis plays the role of an anthro- 
pologist on an ethnographic expedi- 
tion to the subcircles of American cul- 
ture where cryogenic re-animation, 
galactic-scale engineering, and 
homebrewed space travel are com- 
monplace subjects of conversation. 
Regis doesn't make fun of the people 
Great Mambo Chicken 
and the Transhuman Condition 
(Science Slightly Over the Edge) 
Ed Regis. 1990; 308 pp. ISBN 0-201-56751-2 
$8.95 ($12.95 postpaid). Addison-Wesley 
Publishing Co./Order Dept., | Jacob Way, 
Reading, MA 01867; 800/447-2226 
he describes, but he does show how 
the grandiosity of their ideas — dis- 
mantling the outer planets to capture 
enough of 
the sun’s energy to fuel a 
population of trillions, for example — 
reflects that immensely confident view 
of our own capacities that has distin- 
guished the human race. We're bigger 
than amoebae, smaller than planets, 
our ancestors were swinging in the 
trees very recently, we're good with 
tools, and we've already started tinker- 
ing with the forces that light the stars. 
Regis evokes humor, awe, and contin- 
ued reflection on the sheer chutzpah 
of Homo sapiens in this informal but 
well-informed joyride through the tern- 
tory of the high-tech high-hubrists. 
—HLR [Suggested by Gregory Daurer] 
e 
For Freeman Dyson, the main reason why 
you had to enclose the solar system was 
to make room for a growing population. 
“Malthusian pressures,” Dyson had said, 
“will ultimately drive an intelligent species 
to adopt some such efficient exploitation of 
its available resources. One should expect 
that, within a few thousand years of its en- 
tering the stage of industrial development, 
any intelligent species should be found oc- 
cupying an artificial biosphere which com- 
pletely surrounds its parent star.” 
And for Dave Criswell, too, the essence of 
life was constant growth and proliferation. 
“Once you get growth started,” he said, 
“it’s not obvious what can stop it.” Which, 
to Criswell, was just as it should be. The 
universe, after all, was just dead matter, and 
the more of it that got converted into life 
and mind the better. 
Others, such as Frank Tipler, were even 
more explicit about the need for life to 
through the Skylight) 
Penguin Books, 1990; 416 pp. 
» 
% 
$12.95 ($14.95 postpaid). Penguin 
\ 
USA/Consumer Sales, 120 Wood- 
bine Street, Bergenfield, NJ 07621; 
Technology and Culture 
This .isWhere people interéstéd in 
téchnology’andyits effects on various 
cultures do battle-dhe tonetis gener 
allfacademic —snot surprising in the 
quarterly publication of thé august and 
slightly arcané Society for the History 
of Fechnology. Papers attend the his- 
tory, development and philosophy of 
technology from megaview to angels- 
on-a-pinhead detail. Some dry bones 
here and there, but some offerings are 
from intrepid critics — a few with 
metaphorical grease on their hands 
— attempting to untangle the vex- 
ing questions that most investigators 
ignore, dismiss, politicize, or get wrong. 
Gems are to be found here. Among 
keep expanding out into the universe until 
the cosmos had been completely subdued. 
“If life is to survive at all, at just the bare 
subsistence level,” he said, “it must neces- 
sarily engulf the entire universe at some 
point in the future. It does not have the 
option of remaining in a limited region. 
Mere survival dictates expansion.” 
Well, all that fine theoretical talk about om- 
| 
nipotent assemblers performing miracles of 
creation (complete control over the structure 
of matter), the talk about people putting 
themselves in computers and then installing 
those computers in bush robots (in just fifty 
years) , all that talk was well and good — 
except that a skeptical type might be per- 
mitted a brief moment of wondering what 
had been accomplished so far. 
What progress had been made? How much 
of those grandiose plans had actually been 
accomplished? There had to be some an- 
chor for this in the real world, otherwise all 
| 
that top-notch hubristic adventuring, as ad- 
venturing, as admirable as it might have 
been in own right, all of it could be dis- 
missed as... mere theory. 
The fact was that the required Show ‘n’ tell 
for the hubristic intellectual voyagers actu- 
ally took place. It began on Monday morn- 
ing, September 21, 1987 — that’s when it 
started, the world’s first conference on ar- 
tificial life. How fitting it was, too, that the 
conference was held at the Los Alamos Na- 
tional Laboratory, a place that, for obvious 
historical reasons, was pretty much given 
over to results. You could talk all you 
wanted, at the lab, about what type of ex- 
plosive might be best suited for this or that 
sort of bomb, but then you had to go out 
to the canyon, or to the proving ground, or 
over to the Nevada test site, and put your 
invention to actual trial. Hopefully, it would 
blow up. 
théh, you'll encounter the frontier, 
Wwhichtis what we came for. Good 
reading for techno-twits, -crats, 
and_-phobes. —J. Baldwin 
e 
World War | caused the first energy crisis 
in Finland. The importation of coal slumped 
radically, and the supply of lamp oil (paraf- 
fin) gradually dried up. The scarcity of food- 
stuffs, combined with price regulation and 
rationing, precipitated the rise of a black 
market. Rumors about exhausted supplies 
of food and other necessities increased 
anxiety in the country. People were afraid 
that the supply of candles and matches 
would be depleted. The shortage of fuels 
and wartime inflation turned electricity into 
an unbeatable source of light. It did not 
vanish from the legal market like many 
other necessities because of hoarding and 
speculation; electricity could be generated 
continuously by means of indigenous energy 
sources (hydropower, firewood, and wood 
wastes). Owing to price regulation, elec- 
tricity rates were not affected by the soar- 
ing inflation. As a result, in the areas that 
were wired, electricity became the cheap- 
est and most reliable source of light .. 
. 
. In 
the so-called electrification frenzy (sahko- 
istysvimma), people neglected to consider 
technological expertise and economic prof- 
itability. The lack of equipment made the 
situation still worse. Distribution networks 
were sometimes built so hastily that barbed 
wire was used for overhead lines and 
bottlenecks for insulators. 
Technology 
and Culture 
Technology and Culture 
Robert C. Post, Editor. 
$27.50/year (4 issues; includes membership 
in the Society for the History of Technol- 
ogy). University of Chicago Press/Journals 
Division, PO Box 37005, Chicago, IL 60637; 
312/702-7600 
