Sustainability 
FOREST ACTIVISM 9 
Clearcut 
A book for the President's night table; a time to 
reflect that 95 percent of our nation’s original forests 
are no more. Save 5 percent of this heritage 
for future generations? Industrial pressure says: too 
much. Clearcut says: enough is enough. One hundred 
stunning photos and twelve good essays make it the 
coffee table book for the Millennium. —PW 
e 
Photographer Balthazar Korab tells of his personal struggle to 
understand, and then articulate through his photography, the 
agony wrought by industrialism to his adopted state of 
Michigan: In 1976, when working on an exhibit, “Man’s pres- 
ence in Michigan,” | discovered with shock that millions of 
acres of white pines covered the state when white men arrived 
in the mid-1880s and by 1910 all but a few acres were cut 
down, without any effort to replant. Only 49 acres of old 
Clearcut 
growth exist today, preserved by accidental circumstances in 
Hartwick Pines State Park. Most of the later reforestations 
show pitiful, unimaginative monotony. These shown here were 
probably planted by some Youth Corps during the Depression. 
... and today we listen to the inane debate of the politicians 
about the spotted owl versus jobs, while the clearcutting 
equipment is humming away. In a debate where nobody brings 
up the fact that when the white pines were gone the lumber- 
jacks went on living by building cars. —Balthazar Korab 
Industrial foresters attempt to apply principles of industrial management developed for pro- 
duction of such products as automobiles to what they call the “working forest.” These prin- 
ciples include ever-increasing efficiency, lower labor costs (frequently translated to mean re- 
placing human beings by machines), destroying craftsmanship and sense of community by 
hierarchical management, and attempts to constantly increase “worker productivity.” 
In some areas of California, when conifer trees are planted after clearcutting, the open areas 
are prime habitat for deciduous trees such as alders. Conifers will tend to grow through the 
canopy of trees and the deciduous trees will not live as long as the conifers. In order to give 
the commercially valuable conifers an early advantage over alders, industrial foresters like to 
aerially spray forests with herbicides that kill or defoliate the broadleaf trees. Aerial spraying 
st 
ACT 
IY 
Save America’s Forests: Membership $25/ 
year. 4 Library Court SE, Washington, DC 
20003; 202/544-9219. The shadow gov- 
ernment of forest love, hidden in a little of- 
fice off the Beltway, coordinates over 300 
forest-loving protection and business 
groups. SAF lobbies Congress for an end to 
clearcutting, diverse forests on public lands, 
and decentralized citizen enforcement; 
they keep you informed with a great news- 
letter and citizen action guide. 
AFSEEE (Association of Forest Service Em- 
ployees for Environmental Ethics): Mem- 
bership $20/year. PO Box | 1615, Eugene, 
OR 97440; 503/484-2692. This organiza- 
tion gives federal employees some hope 
that truth will not be answered by job loss 
or stagnation. Their journal Inner Voice 
provides hope and pride to battered 
NINA AKO)(@2 
The government should establish adminis- 
trative unit boundaries that make ecological 
sense. This includes transferring the Forest 
Service out of the Department of Agricul- 
ture to a new Department of Natural Re- 
sources and Environment along with the 
Park Service, and US Fish and Wildlife 
Service. Ecosystem Management is 
not agriculture. 
We also recommend creating bioregional offices 
to combine, consolidate, and replace the current 
regional and supervisors’ offices. For instance, 
the four National Forests in the Yellowstone 
area would be consolidated into one region, 
rather than divided between regions as they 
are today. This would provide the most efficient 
method, administratively, for doing ecosystem 
management. 
agency workers trying to implement a fair 
deal for the long-term health of 
the public 
lands. For non-agency employees, this is 
the Internet of labor and the environment 
at its best. Inner Voice has some of the 
best understandings of bureaucracy, your 
trees and grass. 
CHEC (Cascade Holistic Economic Con- 
sultants): Different Drummer magazine 
$21.95/year (4 issues). 1441 7 SE Laune, 
Oak Grove, OR 97267; 503/652-7049. 
Native Forest Network: Membership $20/ 
year. Western: PO Box 60271, Seattle, 
WA 98160; 206/545-3734, fax 206/ 
632-6122, email spardee@igc.apc.org 
Eastern: PO Box 57, Burlington, VT 05402; 
802/863-0571, fax 802/863-2532, email 
peacejustice@igc.apc.org. 
Within each Bioregion, smaller administrative 
units should be established to coincide with 
watershed boundaries. Watershed unit offices 
would replace district offices and would carry 
out all Forest Service management functions 
except for planning, research, and policy-making 
— those would take place in the Bioregional 
Offices. The Watershed Unit would become 
the “heart and soul” of the Forest Service and 
receive the vast majority of the funding. 
of forests with herbicides was perfected 
during the 1960s in the war in Vietnam. 
The U.S. Air Force sprayed Agent Orange 
(a toxic concoction including 2-4-D) over 
Orner Great Resources 
An Analysis of the Timber Situ- 
ation in the United States, 
1989—2040: Richard Haynes. 1990, 
| U.S. Forest Service. The Forest Ser- 
vice document on present and antici- 
pated uses, supply, demand and price 
trends for our forests. You need this 
to understand the commercial fate of 
the forests and what needs change. 
(The Tragedy of Industrial Forestry) 
Bill Devall, Editor. Sierra Club Books/ 
Earth Island Press, 1994; 291 pp. 
ISBN 0-87 156-494-7 
$50 ($57 postpaid). Sierra Club Store 
Orders, 730 Polk Street, San Francisco, 
CA 94109; 800/935-1056 
an estimated one million acres of forest in 
Vietnam. After learning of this practice, 
critics invented the term ecocide to refer to 
the systematic destruction of a natural 
landscape for a limited or narrow goal 
— victory over the enemy. 
? 
“a. 
\ 
NN \\\ 
