Ly) 
> 4 
Sex in History 
Who says reading about it isn’t as 
much fun as doing it? 
While it will come as no shock to 
readers of this book that humans have 
been having sex for even longer than 
they've been inventing history, Reay 
Tannahill makes for a most engaging 
tour guide through the theme park of 
human sexuality, directing our atten- 
tion to those quirks of 
law, religious 
text and literature that when viewed 
peripherally, seem monochromatic. As 
always, the story behind the story is 
the real tale: it was only during the 
neolithic era — not long ago in the 
context of two million years of human 
evolution — that males took over the 
socially dominant role, not coinciden- 
tally the same point at which the mas- 
culine role in procreation first became 
understood. How ironic that shortly 
thereafter, sexuality acquired a set of 
rules — rules preserved in law, custom 
and attitudes, even to this day. 
—PDiL 
e 
As far as the history of sex is concerned, 
the record of the early Christian church 
was a formidable one. Other Western soci- 
eties had condemned, with varying degrees 
of severity, adultery (usually), contraception 
(rarely), abortion (sometimes), homosexu- 
ality (sometimes), infanticide (rarely), 
zoophilia (sometimes), masturbation 
(never). The Church proscribed them all. 
% 
i 
he click of sudden attraction. 
The moan you make before you 
come. 
In the strictly, Darwinian sense, the organism 
reduced to quivering germinal protoplasm. 
Remember the old story about the. groupie who for years 
screwed every rock star she could get her hands on? She would 
always say afterwards: “He was great, but he wasn’t Mick 
Jagger!” Finally, she got to screw Mick Jagger. Her friends all 
asked her: “So? So?” 
And she replied: “He was great, but he wasn’t Mick Jagger!” 
Most people live the greater part of their sexual lives in their 
imaginations. While sex as a reproductive strategy is common 
to most multicelled creatures, recreational sex is purely a 
human indulgence. What other animal would spread whipped 
cream on a lover’s genitals and lick it off? What other animal 
employs whips and chains and ropes as a form of affection? 
Tumescence and its relief are not the only variations on the 
sexual games we humans play. 
The care and feeding of an imagination is a delicate thing. 
Imaginations grow sluggish on a diet of misinformation. Even 
the details of genital anatomy are sometimes confusing or 
misunderstood — both by ourselves and our partners. Look at 
the books and resources here as a dietary supplement for a 
wholesome sexual appetite. This is by no means an inclusive list 
of all the excellent books and resources available. But it is a 
good place to start. 
Bon appetit! —Patrizia DiLucchio 
Hovering 
butterflies 
position 
Sex in History 
Reay Tannahill. Scarborough House, 
1982; 480 pp. ISBN 0-8128-8540-6 
$16.95 ($20.70 postpaid) from National 
Book Network, 4720 Boston Street, 
Lanham MD, 20706; 800/462-6420 
Other societies had ventured to suggest 
suitable frequencies for marital intercourse. 
“Three times a month,” said Solon. “Every 
day for the unemployed,” said the Jewish 
Mishnah; “twice a week for laborers, once a 
week for ass drivers.” The Church said 
never, unless children were the object. 
Other societies had regarded sex as plea- 
surable, in any position. To the Church, 
sexual pleasure was a sin and only the man- 
superior position was acceptable. 
The Greeks had no 
doubt that a fish was 
a phallic object, and 
carried outsized images 
of it in Dionysiac 
> 
processions. 
The Apparitional Lesbian 
Lesbians throughout history have been 
cloaked in invisibility. This pervasive 
cultural denial doubtless finds its 
source in the anxiety evoked in male- 
dominated civilizations by the prospect 
of women who do not need men — 
either as moral, sexual or psychologi- 
cal authorities, or as objects of love. Al- 
though love between women has been 
a motif in Westem art and literature 
since classical times, its cultural signifi- 
cance has been left unexplored; lesbi- 
ans are often dismissed as a modem 
invention of Freud and Kraft-Ebing. 
| 
In this elegantly written and meticu- 
lously researched book, Terry Castle 
documents the evolution of the lesbian 
sensibility from the mid-eighteenth 
century to the present. She reminds us 
that the very cultural and ideological 
blinders that prevent us from seeing 
lesbians in our midst are also the dis- 
torting lenses that have historically 
maintained Man's view of himself 
as 
superior in all ways to Woman. 
—PDiL 
e 
In nearly all of the art of the eighteenth and 
nineteenth centuries, lesbianism, or its pos- 
sibility, can only be represented to the de- 
gree that it is simultaneously derealized 
through a blanching authorial infusion of 
spectral metaphors. (I speak here of so- 
called polite or mainstream writing; the 
shadow discourse of pornography is of 
course another matter, and demands a 
separate analysis). One woman or the 
other must be a ghost, or on the one to 
becoming one. Passion is excited, only to 
be obscured, disembodied, decarnalized. 
The vision is inevitably waved off. Panic 
seems to underwrite these obsessional, 
spectralizing gestures: a panic over love, 
female pleasure, and the possibility of 
women breaking free — together — from 
Lubricants and Body Oils 
Somewhere off in the Cosmic Office for Evo- 
lutionary Planning, Hominid Division, a 
systems designer or an engineer forgot 
about lubrication. Well, maybe not forgot 
entirely. They just didn't specify enough of it. 
The human body is like any other machine: 
friction wears it down. And nothing spoils 
good sex like friction. Friction creates unin- 
tentional pain 
Let's look at the basics. Body oils are just 
what they sound like: heavy, often scented 
or flavored lotions for external application. 
Lubricants, on the other hand, are meant to 
be used on delicate membranes as an aid 
to penetration. 
The best lubricants are water-based, be- 
cause oils break down latex — condoms, 
dental dams, gloves. Some lubes come 
mixed with Nonoxynol-9, a spermicide and 
detergent that can help kill HIV. The draw- 
back is that Nonoxynol-9 tastes awful, and 
can sometimes inflame genital tissues. But 
better a funny taste in your mouth than a 
lifetime acquaintance with a retrovirus. 
If you're thinking in terms of what's avail- 
able at the local supermarket, baby oil 
works well externally, while K-Y Jelly is a 
well-known internal product. Here are some 
others that you may like. 
—Ben Trumble 
OILS 
Charlie Sunshine: (about $6 for 4.8 oz) 
A nice body oil with scents like jasmine, 
orange, cedar, musk, and vanilla 
Kama Sutra Love Oils: (about $1 2.50 for 
4 oz): These essential oils are meant to be 
used as genital scents. Available in cherry, 
cinnamon, almond, and chocolate mint. 
Bare Escentuals: (about $2 for |/2 oz) 
These fruity sensual oils are a bit overpriced, 
but they come in such flavors as apricot, 
black cherry, and walnut. 
Incredible Edible: (about $4 for | oz): 
All-natural edible massage oils using natural 
flavors and a base of glycerine and honey 
They're rather sticky, but where else will you 
find flavors like tupelo honey, orange, water- 
melon, and kahlua ‘n’ cream? And they 
taste wonderful 
LUBRICANTS 
Astroglide: (about $8.50 for 2.35 oz) Very 
slippery, very popular, odorless, and sweet 
Resists evaporation. Probably the best 
lubricant currently on the market 
Embrace: (about $8 for 8 oz) Thick, 
odorless, and sweet 
Probe: (about $2 for 2 oz) Odorless and 
tasteless 
Aqua Lube with Nonoxynol-9: (about $7 for 
9) 
2 oz) A good lube with a bad taste 
<= a 
The Apparitional Lesbian 
Terry Castle. 1993; 307 pp. ISBN 0-231-07652-5 
$29.95 ($33.45 postpaid) from Columbia 
University Press/Order Dept., 136 S. Broadway, 
Irvington, NY 10533 
their male sexual overseers. Homophobia 
is the order of the day, entertains itself 
(wryly or gothically) with phantoms, then 
exorcises them. 
yj 
f 
