The Millenium Whole Earth Catalog 
ECOLOGICAL DESIGN 
Regenerative Design for Sustainable Development 
An uninspired title and textbooky aes- 
thetic mask what must be the best, 
most useful analysis of how that elusive 
(and possibly oxymoronic) goal, “sustain- 
able development,” might be attained. 
John Lyle wastes no time in wailing, 
villainization, or outrage. He's realistic, 
knowing that progress will be messy, 
uneven, and occasionally mistaken, with 
strategies and focus changing as we 
leam. He offers a remarkably complete 
synopsis of the basic problems and the 
form their solutions will probably take. He 
explains underlying principles instead of 
assuming you're already hip, then inspires 
with successful examples of applied re- 
generative design. In twenty-five years of 
assessing books of this genre, | have 
never encountered one as comprehensive 
and essentially right. —J. Baldwin 
e 
The Gaia Institute, which has experimented 
with rooftop gardens in New York City for 
several years, has developed a system using 
greenhouse covers and a lightweight soil 
employing shredded recycled Styrofoam as 
a filler. The soil weight is 10 to 20 percent 
that of natural soils. Institute researchers 
believe that if this system is used with no 
space devoted to circulation, the net yield 
could be 40 to 70 pounds of produce per 
square foot per year. At this rate, each 
square foot could provide 30 to 50 percent 
Earth in Mind 
of the vegetables consumed by an average 
person. This is 30 to 50 times the yield of 
field crops. While these figures may be op- 
timistic, the potentials of rooftop agricul- 
ture are obviously considerable. 
e 
Neighbors often protest the dramatically 
visible clusters of wind generators that 
adorn several mountain ridges in California. 
In Holland, however, where windmills have 
been integral parts of the landscape for 
centuries, people regard them as features 
of the cultural heritage. 
JOHN TILLMAN LYLE 
Regenerative Design 
for Sustainable Development 
John Tillman Lyle. 1993; 
338 pp. ISBN 0-471 -55582-7 
$49.95 postpaid from John Wiley & Sons, 
Inc., | Wiley Dr., Somerset, NJ 08875; 
800/225-5945 
e 
Wes Jack- 
son has ar- 
gued that far 
from experienc- 
ing an information ex- 
plosion in the past few 
decades, we have actually 
undergone an impover- 
ishment of informa- 
tion. His argument 
rests on the loss 
of species along 
with their ge- 
netic informa- 
tion and on 
the loss of tra- 
ditional cul- 
tures and prac- 
tices along with 
the information 
they have collected 
over generations. 
$s 
Jackson makes a compel- 
ling case and his point is especially relevant 
to regenerative systems, which draw 
heavily on the evolved wisdom of numer- 
ous cultures and which are enmeshed in 
complex interactions with many species. 
e 
A great many of the Renaissance churches 
of the I5th and | 6th centuries were built 
with stones acquired by demolishing Gothic 
churches of the I Ith and |2th centuries. 
| 
In his 1992 book Ecological Literacy, 
| David Orr suggested (insisted, actually) 
that what currently passes as education 
leaves us ecologically ignorant and likely 
to cause environmental problems. | liked 
it a lot (WER 77:20). Earth in Mind is a 
more comprehensive and convincing look 
| at the same issues. Unlike many polemi- 
| 
cists, Mr. Orr implements his ideas. 
He is using his professor's position to 
(slowly) transform Oberlin College into 
| a model of what a complete educational 
| institution should be. He's also one of 
the convenors of the Ecological Design 
Conference (see p. | 2). | don’t often 
prescribe a book, but you need to read 
this one. —]. Baldwin 
° 
More and more colleges and universities 
| are willing to sell off natural areas in their 
| possession and use the proceeds for what 
administrators regard as more practical 
purposes. A few have participated in large- 
| scale commercial developments on univer- 
| sity-owned lands. Such actions say more 
| than any number of glossy publications or 
learned speeches about the real institu- 
tional priorities that apparently do not 
have much to do with trees, forests, and 
biodiversity. Land holdings, including those 
in forested land, are appraised mostly for 
their cash value, not for their value in pre- 
serving biodiversity or in educating the 
young about forests. 
Intended or not, decisions to sell off natural 
lands do have an effect that can be rightly 
described as educational. Colleges and uni- 
versities educate by what they do as well as 
by what they say. Students no doubt will 
observe that when the going gets a wee bit 
tough, their intellectual mentors and role 
models regard natural lands and whatever 
biological diversity they hold as expendable. 
e 
Third, the modern curriculum teaches little 
about citizenship and responsibilities and a 
great deal about individualism and rights. 
The ecological emergency, however, can be 
resolved only if enough people come to 
hold a bigger idea of what it means to be a 
citizen. This will have to be carefully taught 
at all levels of education, but a pervasive 
cynicism about our higher potentials and 
Earth in Mind 
(On Education, Environment, 
| 
and the Human Prospect) 
David W. Orr. 1994; 224 pp. ISBN |- 
55963-295-X 
$16.95 ($21.20 postpaid) from Island Press, 
Box 7, Covelo, CA 95428; 800/828-1302 
collective abilities now works against us. 
Even my most idealistic students often con- 
| 
fuse self-interest with selfishness, a view 
that describes both Mother Teresa and 
Donald Trump as self-maximizers, each 
merely doing “her thing” or “his thing.” 
This is not just a social and political prob- 
lem. The ecological emergency is about the 
failure to comprehend our citizenship in 
the biotic community. 
