Health 
| 72 SELF-HELP 
Finding or Forming Your Own Self-Help Network 
(Face-to-Face or Online) 
By Edward J. Madara and Tom Ferguson, M.D. 
ELF-HELP NETWORKS ARE LIKE SURROGATE FAMILIES: members share common problems and help each 
other toward mutual goals. The support they provide is available for free and, in most cases, around the 
clock. A surprisingly large proportion of self-help activity takes place late at night — through personal visits, 
phone calls, email or online computer networking. 
In our increasingly fast-paced society, the traditional supports — the nuclear and extended family, the 
neighborhood, and the community — seem to be falling away. It is no coincidence that at the same time that 
these traditional links are disappearing self-help networks are growing rapidly. 
“Families of choice” can help provide a lifesaving buffer against the stresses and challenges of life. The tips 
and personal experiences we share as group members can help us build our self-confidence and develop the 
coping skills we need to manage our health problems — and other life situations. Research is beginning to 
show a dramatic correlation between support group participation and improvements in both physical and 
mental health. 
Becoming involved in a support group can allow you to plug into a powerful network of proactive people 
with similar concerns. Self-helpers offer the kind of hard-earned wisdom and intense personal knowledge 
that can be born only from living witha problem. They are thus often able to offer a much wider and deeper 
range of potential strategies and guidelines than medical and helping professionals, whose expertise is often 
limited to the technical, pathological, and pharmacological aspects of a condition. And unlike most 
professionally oriented medical institutions, which often push people into the role of dependent patient, self- 
help networks typically encourage members to build their competence and to hold on to their power. 
Self-help networks can also serve as an effective interface between the person needing help and the 
professional health care system, destigmatizing problems, explaining treatment benefits, helping newcom- 
ers understand when professional help really can be useful and the best way to go about getting it, and 
providing access to the best information on their focus topic. 
Finding or forming a network on the topic of your own special interest may be easier than you think. The 
first step is to find out what groups already exist, locally and nationally. The resources on page 173 provide 
a good starting place, but don’t stop there. Let friends know what you're looking for. Use your networking 
skills. Many of the newer, smaller groups and networks are extremely informal and may not be advertised 
or listed in the standard directories. 
Choosing a self-help network is much like choosing a potential romantic partner: look for the one that feels 
right, that provides the best match between you as an individual and the values and focus of the group. 
If you don’t find the group of your dreams, consider starting your own. But don’t try to do it alone. Identify 
and communicate with other potential group founders through personal contacts and/or informal consul- 
tation. Reach out into the community with flyers and letters; leave online messages on the most appropriate 
bulletin boards or networks. 
Most experienced group founders suggest starting with a core group of two to five people. Identify and 
contact any existing group that could serve as a model, providing information and guidance. 
The next step is to see if anybody shows up. Be ready to rethink the focus of the group or perhaps divide into 
subgroups. Avoid trying to do everything yourself, as this may result in the other members perceiving the 
group as “yours,” not “theirs.” The key to success is making sure the members of the group feel as if they 
own the group. Members who feel this way will be much more active and involved — and will take onadded 
responsibility to make sure the group survives. 
A especially exciting new development is the spread of self-help networks via electronic networks. 
Online self-help removes such barriers to participation as difficulty getting to meetings or lack of 
available and interested neighbors who share your concern. 
Most online self-help systems are available around the clock. And computer self-help can be a great 
equalizer: such trappings as dress, looks, health status, and accent can’t get in the way. While newcomers 
sometimes miss nonverbal communication, more experienced hands find that dealing with this is simply a 
matter of learning to operate in a new medium. 
Online self-help networks include NAPWA-Link, a bulletin board run by the National Association of People 
With AIDS; an active forum on Prodigy run by the Crohn’s Disease and Colitis Foundation of America; the 
WID-Net, developed by the World Institute on Disability; the New Parents Network; and several different 
networks on chronic fatigue syndrome. America Online and CompuServe both have active self-help forums. 
America Online recently added a self-help section run by the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill. 
Online self-help links can be local as well as national and international. The Cleveland Freenet offers an 
online health clinic, health fairs and health education. Such locally based networks are natural breeding 
grounds for locally oriented self-help groups. 
_ 
jump to: 
Virtual Communities 
