Eastern Europe on the Loose 
At 634 pages, On The Loose is the 
most thorough and up-to-date guide 
to the cities, villages, and countrysides 
of Hungary, Bulgaria, Poland, Roma- 
nia, Slovakia, and the Czech Republic. 
It will help to untangle the particulars 
of finding accommodations and trans- 
portation in countries that are still ad- 
justing to private enterprise, and help 
you find the mineral baths of Bulgaria, 
the forests of Transylvania, and the 
salt mines outside Krakow. Berkeley 
guides are also available to other 
regions of Europe, as well as a few 
destinations on other continents. 
—Richie Unterberger 
e 
Even if you sign some sort of contract with 
a flat’s legal tenant, realize that it will prob- 
ably be worth no more than the paper it’s 
printed on. If you deal with a real-estate 
agency you may get a solid arrangement, 
but you'll pay heavily for it. Among the for- 
eign residents of Prague, horror stories of 
being evicted from a flat with only a day's 
or even a few hours’ notice are so com- 
mon that they are traded with gusto over 
beers in the pubs — almost everybody 
who has stayed longer than a few months 
has such a story. On the whole, your op- 
tions are to find a tolerant and dependable 
Czech person to let you live undisturbed in 
their place (and they do exist), pay the 
price for a real-estate middleman, or keep 
possessions at a minimum and accept the 
transience most foreigners in Prague learn 
to live with. 
e 
A front-runner for the most surreal sight in 
Slovakia, the Museum Muderného Umenia 
(Museum of Modern Art) must be seen to 
be believed. But to see it, you'll have to 
travel to Medzilaborce in the far reaches of 
northern Slovakia, 50 kilometers northeast 
of Presov and 10 kilometers from the Polish 
border. Set in this cow town where horse- 
drawn carts still have run of the streets, the 
gleaming white museum, with two 7-foot 
Campbell's soup cans forming the entryway, 
looks as if it were accidentally dropped 
from the sky. The entire museum is dedi- 
cated to the work of Andy Warhol, whose 
parents emigrated from the nearby village of 
Mikova to Chicago in the early part of the 
century; this tenuous connection inspired 
the recent establishment of the museum. 
The collection has grown from one small 
lithograph of a cow (appropriate) to over 
two dozen works. Chances are high that 
steps with buckets of water, a tradition 
performed for centuries. Next, the cat 
population begins to stir, then to amble 
down toward the waterfront for the arrival 
of the fishermen with the daily catch. Birds 
flutter through the empty windows of a 
now-abandoned Greek church. Inside are 
water-damaged frescoes and exposed brick 
columns that are hauntingly beautiful. 
Around 8:00 a.m., small, happy groups of 
children walk down the quiet streets to 
their elementary school behind the yacht 
harbor. Their black jackets, shorts, and 
newly pressed white shirts are spotless. 
Some of the youngsters have put an elegant 
finishing touch to their uniform, a starched 
white handkerchief in the tiny jacket 
pocket. The waterfront cafés fill up for 
morning tea, and then with the arrival of 
the fishing boats, the cats are fed and the 
midday meal is delivered in handmade bas- 
kets to the restaurants and hotels. The day 
is in full swing in Cunda; life moves with 
gusto and much pleasure on this now shim- 
mering Turkish island. 
Undiscovered Islands 
of the Mediterranean 
Linda Lacione Moyer & Burt Willes. 1990; 
220 pp. ISBN 0-945465-53-X 
$14.95 ($18.70 postpaid) from John Muir 
Publications, PO Box 613, Santa Fe, NM 
87504; 800/888-7504 
Eastern Europe on the Loose 
Alison Hum! & Chelsea Mauldin. Berkeley 
Guides, 1994; 634 pp. ISBN 0-679-02595-2 
$17.50 ($19.50 postpaid) from Random 
House/Order Dept., 400 Hahn Road, 
Westminster, MD 21157; 800/733-3000 
you will have the museum all to yourself, 
and it is an eerie experience to wander the 
large, empty space and study Warhol’s pop- 
culture sensibility taken so far out of con- 
text. A number of family artifacts are also 
on display, such as Andy’s baptismal gown, 
personal letters, and paintings by Warhol's 
brother and nephew. The museum contains 
a cinema which appropriately dispenses 
pop-culture imperialism with showings of 
the latest Hollywood movies. 
—The Georgian Republic 
Moscow-St. Petersburg Handbook 
Already in its second edition, this is the 
most up-to-date resource for exploring 
Russia's two largest cities, as well as 
the Golden Ring — the towns and vil- 
lages between the two metropoli. Writ- 
ten by filmmaker Masha Nordbye, 
who has worked and traveled through- 
out Russia for nearly twenty years, it 
includes introductions to Russian music, 
festivals, history, language, and food, as 
well as detailed listings of 
sights, ac- 
commodations, and amenities. —RU 
e 
If you’re really adventurous, you can rent a 
car and drive it yourself. You can visit many 
more towns in just one day, especially from 
Moscow, without having to overnight any- 
where. Just make sure you find out where 
the gas stations are located along the way 
— they’re not so easy to find, and they 
don’t always have gasoline. All these op- 
tions must be paid for in foreign currency. 
If you have some Russian friends with a car, 
have them drive you around the area for a 
day. Or find a Russian who has a car who 
will be willing to take you around for the 
day. Many Russians with private cars (or 
taxis) are looking to pick up some extra 
cash, especially on the weekends. Bargain 
for a price — add a little tip as a further in- 
centive and you'll be on your way. Zagorsk 
is less than an hour’s ride from Moscow. If 
you go with other Russians, most likely 
they've been there a few times and can 
show you around. 
Moscow-St. Petersburg 
Handbook 
(Including the Golden Ring) 
Masha Nordbye. 1993; 259 pp. 
ISBN 0-918373-91-3 
$13.95 ($17.45 postpaid) from Moon 
Publications, Inc., PO Box 3040, Chico, 
CA 95927; 800/345-5473, fax 916/345-6751 
Practice at the Moscow Circus. 
Nomadics 
EASTERN EUROPE 333 
People to People 
The guides in this series have more 
charm and personality than most 
travel tools. Each is essentially an in- 
dex of a country’s residents who want 
to meet Americans, show you around 
their town, and (sometimes) have you 
stay in their house. | can’t think of a 
better way to get to know a place 
than hanging out with a local. 
Featuring about one thousand indi- 
viduals, of all ages and professions, 
the books are organized by city with a 
brief description of each person's inter- 
ests, languages, address, phone num- 
ber, and occupation. 
—Marguerntta |. Castanera 
e 
From a student in Lithuania: 
Now | sit by the table and think: what to 
tell you about myself, how to make a begin- 
ning. 
.. 
. | live with my mother and sister. 
My town is near the sea, which is a part of 
my life. All natural phenomena whisper to 
you: “you are living, that’s your state in 
life.” | play the piano and sing. There are 
also a great many things mysteriously inter- 
esting and tempting: philosophy, religion, 
architecture . .. Association with my 
friends helps me to live. I'm ready to reply 
to anyone. Keep happy till the next time. 
—Baltic Republics 
People to People Series: 
Jim Haynes, Editor. 1992, 1993 
* Baltic Republics 
* Czech-Slovakia, Hungary, Bulgaria 
* Poland 
* Romania 
$10.95 ($13.95 postpaid) each from Zephyr 
Press, 13 Robinson Street, Somerville, MA 
02145; 617/628-9726, fax 617/776-8246 
| Alternative Moscow: The Institute For Social 
Inventions, 20 Heber Road, London NW2 6AA, 
UK, 081/208-2853. 
Jewish Heritage Travel: Ruth Ellen Gruber. 
| 
1992. John Wiley & Sons, Inc. A guide to Jewish- 
| oriented sights and the remaining Jewish commu- 
nities in Central and Eastern Europe. 
| The Georgian Republic: Roger Rosen. 1992. 
Passport Books. One of the few detailed guides 
to an individual state in the former Soviet Union. 
