296 
Political Tools 
THE POLITICAL SPECTRUM 
HE FRENCH ARISTOCRATS 
and lawyers who assembled 
in the Estates General of 
| 789 — with the nobility 
on the King's night and the bourgeois 
“third estate” gathered on his left 
— would probably have been struck 
speechless if they had been informed 
that, two hundred years later, the 
world would still be trying to fit its 
understanding of politics onto the 
left/nght template formed by that 
seating arrangement. Real life rarely 
falls into such neat dichotomies, and 
real politics is no exception. However, 
despite this drawback, no altemative 
conceptual grid has arisen to replace 
the old left/right model. Thus, most 
groups and ideologies on the political 
landscape still locate themselves 
somewhere to the left or right 
of each other. 
The following brief survey is one 
possible approach to the political 
spectrum. I've chosen to spotlight 
magazines instead of political groups 
because over the years I've found that 
magazines provide the most direct 
routes to grasping the world views of 
the different ideological camps they 
represent. Unlike an organized group 
or party, a magazine will 
rarely come knocking on 
your door trying to recruit 
you into some sort of 
membership, yet at the 
same time the tone and 
unspoken assumptions of 
its writers, reviewers, and 
letters to the editor often 
leap off the page and pro- 
vide many unexpected 
insights. Magazines leave 
you free to draw your 
own conclusions. 
Since each magazine 
chosen here represents a 
different ideological camp, 
| recommend regularly 
dipping into publications 
from across the spectrum. 
It is particularly valuable 
to read publications that 
reflexively make your skin 
crawl, as an exercise in 
preventing mental calcification. Dehu- 
manizing one’s opponents is a time- 
honored political device practiced by 
nearly everyone. Cross-spectrum read- 
ing can help you extricate yourself 
from such a tendency. 
The most common model of the left/ 
right continuum has generally located 
moderate upholders of the status quo 
in the center. As one travels further 
out from the center on both the left 
and the right, dissatisfaction with the 
present set-up increases and increas- 
ingly radical solutions proliferate. In 
this fashion, the far left and far right 
tend to mirror each other psychologi- 
cally. This helps account for the phe- 
nomenon of disillusioned communists 
flipping over and becoming hard-bitten 
conservatives. A typical ideological 
chart from left to right would read like 
the one at the top of this page. 
ww 
re 
ory 
This is approximately the model | have 
employed in the following reviews, 
though it has numerous flaws, not the 
least being its illusion of 
linearity. The 
left generally upholds economic inter- 
vention by the government, yet the 
ideological tendency usually considered 
farthest to the left is anarchism — 
which advocates the abolition of 
government. Similarly, in this scheme, 
the night is usually seen as upholding 
limited government intervention, yet 
fascism is usually considered on the 
extreme right despite its support 
of an active corporatist state. 
For the sake of simplicity, let's start 
our survey in the center and work 
our way out. —Jay Kinney 
¢ Moderate 
Moderate or Centrist is the category that 
nearly everyone falls within but hardly any- 
one wants to claim. It tends to be marked 
by an earmest support for our democratic 
—The New Republic 
institutions, a tendency to try and accom- 
modate the claims of those farther to the 
left and right, and a reluctance to rock the 
boat. Pragmatism rules. Though his rhetoric 
tends to tilt further left, President Clinton's 
actual behavior is classically centrist. 
Similarly, The New Republic has long had 
gd reputation as a liberal “weekly journal 
of opinion” but its editorial positions in re- 
cent years have been largely moderate (or 
“neo-liberal”). TNR is the quintessential 
“beltway” magazine, edited in Washing- 
ton, and one of the liveliest political/cul- 
tural publications around. It is also among 
the most influential magazines in powerful 
East Coast circles, a fact that gamers 
sneers from the envious on both left 
and night. 
The New Republic: Andrew Sullivan, 
Editor. $34.99/year (48 issues). PO Box 
602, Mount Morris, Il 61054; 800/827-1289. 
¢ Liberal/Socialist 
Meanwhile, the one- 
two punch of the 
Reagan/Bush years 
and the collapse of 
Soviet communism 
has sent everyone 
left of center into an 
extended identity 
crisis. Formerly inclu- 
sive ideologies such 
ds mainstream liber- 
alism and demo- 
cratic socialism, 
which once saw 
themselves as de- 
fending the interests 
of justice and oppor- 
tunity for the vast 
majority of working 
people, have evolved into 
unstable coalitions of radicalized minorities 
(women, people of 
color, gays, the dis- 
abled, the elderly, et al.), competing for 
recognition and entitlements. Amid this tur- 
moil, the old boundaries between liberal- 
ism and socialism have collapsed into a 
general defense of the welfare state, pub- 
lic-sector growth, and rights legislation: not 
exactly an inspiring vision with which to 
rally widespread support. Since a good por- 
tion of 
the left in the sixties and seventies 
included the brightest students in college, 
much of their political activity has relo- 
cated to the pages of abstruse academic 
journals as they've pursued professorships 
and tenure 
In These Times (which started out in Chi- 
cago in the mid-seventies as “the indepen- 
dent socialist newspaper” and has since 
become “the alternative newsmagazine”) 
and The Nation (featuring the cream of 
the left/liberal intelligentsia) speak for this 
political stratum in alert and readable 
fashion, while remaining generally non- 
sectarian. Both feature good reporting and 
serious writing tackling the challenges fac- 
ing the left. Socialist Review is arguably 
the best of the more scholarly journals, 
perhaps because it comes from a non-aca- 
demic urban editorial collective rather than 
from some university department. Titled 
Socialist Revolution once upon a time, SR 
has faithfully mirrored the shifts on the left 
over the years. It is currently a lively and 
unpredictable forum for socialist debate. 
In These Times: James Weinstein, Editor. 
$34.95/year (26 issues). 1912 Debs Avenue, 
Mount Morris, IL 61054; 800/827-0270. 
The Nation: Victor Navasky, Editor. 
$35.95/year (47 issues). PO Box 10791, 
Des Moines, IA 50340-0791; 800/333-8536. 
Socialist Review: David Trend, Editor. 
$21/year (4 issues). Socialist Review/Duke 
University Press Journals Fulfillment, 90660 
College Station, Durham, NC 27708-0660; 
919/687-3600. 
¢ Communist 
Fifteen years ago, this next category was 
arguably the most active on the left, with 
hoards of Maoists, Trotskyists, Third World 
national-liberation support groups, and 
other Leninist varieties busily contending 
with each other and trying to build The 
Party. Communists looked with disdain at 
—In These Times 
socialists, who were less revolutionary than 
they, and held high the banner of the dic- 
tatorship of the proletariat. While a few 
lonely remnants of those heady days are 
still around, it is a measure of 
the changes 
that have occurred that none really war- 
rants mention here. The major hard-left 
weekly paper, The Guardian, went belly up 
in 1992. The Soviet-aligned CPUSA, which 
had struggled on through glasnost, split in 
the wake of Yeltsin's actions in 1993. And 
after Tiananmen Square, no one looks to 
China for inspiration anymore. Former 
communists remain peppered throughout 
the left, particularly in antiracist, antirightist 
organizations, but these days they tend to 
hang their dusty Mao caps in the closet. 
Will the last Marxist-Leninist to abandon 
the revolution please turn out the lights? 
¢ Anarchist/ 
Anti-Authoritarian 
The last decade has seen both ups and 
downs for the Anarchists, our farthest left 
camp. The association of a visceral anar- 
chy with the Punk movement swelled the 
ranks of anarchist circles for much of the 
eighties, but hitching one's wagon to the 
wild horses of youth is implicitly not a long- 
term strategy, as the proponents of a radi- 
cal youth culture discovered in the sixties. 
Various attempts to fashion national orga- 
nizations of anarchists or national anar- 
chist newspapers have sputtered, although 
there are a good couple of dozen (prima- 
rily local) anarcho-zines and magazines 
around — certainly a stronger showing 
than the communists. 
One notable success has been the growth 
of Anarchy (‘A Journal of Desire Armed”) 
from a scrappy tabloid into a solid and at- 
tractive desktop-published quarterly. A pot- 
poum of analytical pieces, columns, numer- 
ous reader letters, and exhaustive listings 
of other anarchist publications keep things 
vital. 
Anarchy: Jason McQuinn, Editor. $12/year 
(4 issues). C. A. L. Press, PO Box 1446, Co- 
lumbia, MO 65205-1446. 
