Robot Explorer 
This friendly and informative newslet- 
ter covers both experimental and 
practical applications of robots. Fea- 
tures include robot professionals and 
hobbyists talking about their projects, 
reports on robot events and competi- 
tion, and coverage of new theory and 
research. An “industry scrapbook” of 
new products and an event calendar 
complete the package. A pretty good 
deal at eight issues for $14.95. 
—Gareth Branwyn 
e 
The concept of hordes of ‘gnat’ robots re- 
placing single mobile robots has been pro- 
posed by Anita Flynn and others at the MIT 
= ffordable Robot Arm. 
Robot Explorer 
Raymond GA Cété, Editor. 
$14.95/year (8 issues). 145 Grove Street, 
PO Box 458, Peterborough, NH 03458- 
0458; 800/GO-ROBOT 
Artificial Intelligence Lab. In fact, the con- 
cept of building little machines capable of 
group achievement is being studied so seri- 
ously that the Al Lab is locally known as the 
Artificial Insect Lab. 
Mobile Robots 
The undisputed bible for amateur ro- 
bot-makers. It covers everything from 
robotics theory to design, construction, 
operation, and trouble shooting. The 
detailed robot plans (for two different 
‘bots) included in the book grew out 
of work at MIT's Al Lab. 
Authors Anita Flynn and Joseph Jones 
have done an amazing job of covering 
beginner- to advanced-level concepts 
in a lucid and easy-to-follow, but still 
rigorous manner. An extensive “Yellow 
Pages” section covers suppliers, avail- 
able products, and trade journals. | 
couldn't be more jazzed by this 
volume, —GB 
e 
The design and construction of mobile ro- 
bots is as much an art as a science. The in- 
tent of Mobile Robots: Inspiration to Imple- 
mentation is to explain the skills involved in 
a manner amenable to as broad an audience 
as possible. Our aim is to teach you, the 
reader, how to build a robot. With the re- 
cent wide availability of home computers 
and tremendous reductions in costs for 
microelectronics, building mobile robots 
with an assortment of sensors and actua- 
tors is within the reach of nearly everyone. 
e 
Attention to Detail 
Intermittent connections are the most frus- 
trating to debug. The way to avoid this 
problem is to build your circuit neatly and 
carefully the first time. When soldering, do 
not use gobs of solder. Use heat-shrink 
tubing to cover exposed wires. 
Connectorize liberally for quick disassem- 
bly. Add strain reliefs to cable harnesses. 
Wire things carefully the first time. Keep in 
mind that a little quality goes a long way. 
Mobile Robots 
(Inspiration to Implementation) 
Joseph L. Jones & Anita M. Flynn. 1993; 
349 pp. ISBN 1-56881-01 1-3 
$39.95 ($42.45 postpaid). AK Peters, Ltd., 
289 Linden Street, Wellesley, MA 02181; 
617-235-2210 
Robot Clubs and Events 
Robot clubs, competitions, and robot 
art/performance groups can be found 
throughout the US. One of the most 
innovative of these is Austin, Texas’ 
Robot Group. Their skill, creativity, and 
sense of whimsy has created such 
crowd-pleasing robotic performers 
as a ferocious pneumatic pit bull, a 
robo-band called The Shrinking Robot 
Heads, and a number of odd flying 
contraptions. The group also hosts the 
Kevin 
Derricks 
annual RoboFest, an increasingly 
popular showcase and meeting 
place for robot enthusiasts. For more 
info on the Robot Group, email: robot- 
group@cs.utexas.edu. To find out 
about other clubs and events, check 
out the comp.robotics newsgroup and 
Robot Explorer. —GB 
The Robot Group: PO Box 164334, 
Austin, TX 78716; 512/794-9105, email 
robot-group@cs.utexas.edu 
listser~M@oberon.com 
Taming Technology 
GARAGE ROBOTICS 
LEGO Dacta 
The plastic building blocks of your 
childhood have become the standard 
building blocks for amateur robots. 
LEGO Dacta, the company's educa- 
tional division, offers LEGO Technic 
kits with applications in the sciences, 
mathematics, and technology. 
Besides wide variations on the blocks 
themselves, the Technic line adds sen- 
sors, motors, switches, lights, gears, 
pneumatics, and computer control 
hardware and software. You can buy 
the components in kits with specific 
course objectives, in large building sets, 
or in separate parts packs. LEGO 
components are perfect for miniature 
robotics, because they're strong, versa- 
tile, and reasonably priced (well: sort 
of). They can be used for designing, 
prototyping, or as your finished robot. 
—GB 
e 
9609 9 Volt Technology Resource Set $199.00 
1,733 pieces including new elements such 
as: 9 volt motor and battery box, 9 volt 
wire system, cam wheels, axle extenders, 
and a metal crane hook. 
LEGO Dacta 
Catalog free. 555 Taylor Road/PO Box 
1600, Enfield, CT 06803-1600; 800/527- 
8339, fax 203/763-2466 
The 6.270 Robot Builder’s Guide 
First written as course materials for an 
experimental LEGO Robot Design 
class at MIT, the Guide has been reor- 
ganized to make it more useful to 
those teaching robotics, and to hobby- 
ists looking to create ‘bots based on 
LEGO technology and the Motorola 
681 
microprocessor. It takes you 
through the assembly of the electronic 
components, the building of the robot, 
the application of various sensors, and 
the programming of your model, using 
a special C language (Interactive C, or 
IO), especially developed for the 6.270 
robot. The Guide starts with basic 
electronics and soldering techniques, 
and _ 
builds toward a deeper (hands- 
on) understanding of embedded sys- 
tems, sensors and actuators, 
microcontrol and programming. 
—GB 
e 
6.270 is a hands-on, learn-by-doing class in 
which participants design and build a robot 
that will play in a competition at the end of 
the class. From the student's perspective, 
the goal of the class is to design a robotic 
machine that will be able to navigate its way 
around the playing surface, and successfully 
interact with game objects, including the 
opposing machine. 
o 
Fant Online Resources 
Net Access to Robot Information 
The Comp.Robotics Newsgroup: Informa- 
tion and discussion on robots, covering indus- 
trial applications, research and theory, and 
amateur robotics. Net access: comp.robotics 
The Comp.Robotics FAQ: A massive docu-— 
ment (70+ pages) filled with answers to 
FAQs, resources, contact information, and 
more. Indispensable. Available by anony- 
mous ftp at rtfm.mitedu in pub/usenet/ 
news.answers/robotics-faq/part! and pai 
The Hobby-Bot Mailing List: Covers 
robotics in all its forms. Subscribe: 
hobby-bot-request@a.cs.okstate.edu 
The Mini Board Mailing List: For d 
of robot control and robot contro 
boards, especially the MIT Mini 
and the 6.270 board. Send a mes 
containing the word “help” 
to: 
“Oscar” The Robot Trashcan. 
The 6.270 Robot Builder’s Guide 
Fred Martin. 1992; 230 pp. 
$15 postpaid from The MIT Media Lab/Epis- 
temology and Learning Publications, 20 
Ames Street, Room EI5-315, Cambridge, 
MA 02139; 617/253-0330, fax 617/253- 
6215; email el-pubs@media.mit.edu. 
Also available by anonymous ftp at 
cherupakha.media.mit.edu [18.85.0.47] 
e 
Detecting collisions can only be as good as 
one’s collision sensors. Based on the 
premise that such sensors are not perfect, 
it is a good idea to add some kind of time- 
based exit condition. This will prevent the 
all-too-frequent case of a robot that is 
stuck, but does not have its touch sensor 
depressed. Many a robot simply does not 
“believe” that it is stuck — its program 
stays stuck in some loop, taking no 
compensatory action. 
239 
