 Teprney_ AOTHFEDER 
call it “targeting by taste.” Whatever it’s 
called, there is a startling change taking 
place in the way wholesalers and retailers 
try to get their products in the hands of 
consumers. 
No longer are they content to advertise 
in mass media — spending millions of dol- 
lars for messages that may fall on deaf ears 
— and hope that customers will find their 
way to stores where thousands of items 
are displayed. Manufacturers and many re- 
tail outlets now want to target customers 
directly and lock them into consistent 
buying patterns. 
The way to do this, of course, is to use 
precise lists for mail or telephone solicita- 
tion or to identify customers loyal to your 
brand and somehow manipulate them into 
buying your products over and over. The 
only way to accomplish this successfully is 
to know everything possible about your 
customers: their age, income, ethnicity, 
family size, credit cards, and buying habits. 
Some target marketers, like Quaker Oats 
Co., want to know their customers’ politi- 
cal and social views. In one massive direct- 
marketing campaign, Quaker Oats asked 
customers, including many children, their 
views on drug testing, school prayer, and 
gun control, on the theory that their re- 
sponses indicate whether they are tradi- 
tionalist or are open to new ideas. Kids 
and adults who ordered the Cap’n Crunch 
Dick Tracy Wrist Watch Radio through 
a Quaker Oats offer in cereal boxes were 
sent an intrusive questionnaire that asked 
about these three political issues, plus 
street address, income, what credit cards 
the family uses, the names, ages, and prefer- 
ences of smokers in the household, and 
who has what diseases in the family. It also 
asked the wrist-watch radio users to agree 
or disagree strongly or moderately with 
the statement: “My dog is like my baby.” 
The company used the data to market 
other products directly to the family, based 
on its preferences. It then tracked the pur- 
chases so that it could reinforce patterns 
by marketing the identical products and 
allied products in the future. Customers 
will receive different levels of discounts 
depending on their family characteristics. 
Quaker Oats planned to “overlay” televi- 
sion, radio, and newspaper advertising and 
monitor the varying responses, thus com- 
pleting the manipulation of the buyer. 
Our Vanishing Privacy 
(And What You Can Do to Protect Yours) 
Robert Ellis Smith. 1993; 136 pp. 
ISBN 1-55950-100-6 
$12.95 ($16.95 postpaid) from Loompanics 
Unlimited, PO Box 1197, Port Townsend, 
WA 98368 
Privacy: How to Get It, 
How to Enjoy It 
A Mulligan stew of privacy advice, philo- 
sophy, resources, humor, with a little 
conspiracy paranoia thrown in for good 
measure. But as you read story after story 
— the “little Einstein” who hacked into 
twenty-one Canadian computer systems, 
banks that blithely (and illegally) share 
depositor information with just about 
anyone — you begin to see the author's 
point of view. 
Privacy's pithy chapters identify key privacy 
abuses (from credit-card scams to the 
twenty-four federal agencies that gather 
intelligence on Americans), offer pointed 
remedies, explain obscure laws that can 
help you keep a low profile, and suggest 
further reading. Sometimes the advice is 
spot-on (‘consider the use of mail-drop 
services’) and sometimes downright weird 
(“you and your friends might try leaming 
an obscure foreign language to promote 
privacy”). Either way, it's a fascinating, 
eclectic read. 
Eden Press offers half a dozen other pri- 
vacy books, from Personal and Business 
Privacy to 100 Ways to Disappear and 
Live Free. For the privacy anarchist 
within— RL 
Privacy 
(How to Get It, How to Enjoy It) 
Bill Kaysing & Cathy Clark. 1977, 1991; 
128 pp.$18.95 ($21.95 postpaid) from Eden 
Press, P.O. Box 8410, Fountain Valley, 
CA 92728; phone 800/338-8484, 
fax 714/556-0721 
How to Get Anything 
on Anybody 
Want to learn how the pros tap a phone, 
surreptitiously videotape someone, tail a 
subject, or crack a “secure” computer? 
This ultimate hardware catalog/how-to- 
manual for professional snoops even 
notes where you can buy neat-o spy stuff. 
It's also a boon for the less nosy, says au- 
thor Lapin, because ‘the first time some- 
one kicks you right in the privacy act” 
you'll be prepared. “Law-enforcement 
agencies are only the tip of 
the electronic- 
eavesdropping iceberg. Most bugs are 
planted by people to spy on their spouses 
or to gain an advantage in business.” 
—RL 
How to Get 
Anything on Anybody 
(The Encyclopedia of Personal Surveillance) 
Lee Lapin. Paladin Press, 1991; Vol. |: $30 
($33 postpaid); Vol. Il: $35 ($38 postpaid). 
Eden Press, P.O. Box 8410, Fountain Valley, 
CA 92728; 800/338-8484 (fax 714/556-0721) 
Community 
PRIVACY 135 
Don’t Bug Me (The Latest High-Tech Spy 
Methods): M.L. Shannon. 1992, Paladin Press. 
A useful companion to Lee Lapin’s works, this 
shows you how to protect yourself from 
electronic eavesdropping. 
The Law of Privacy in a Nutshell: Robert 
Ellis Smith. $14.50 postpaid from Privacy Jour- 
nal, PO Box 28577, Providence, RI 02908; 401/ 
274-7861. Not for casual readers, but if you 
have an interest in the law and the historical un- 
derpinnings of privacy rights (from torts to “fair 
information” practices), this book is for you. 
Protectors of Privilege (Red Squads & 
Police Repression in Urban America): Frank 
Donner. 1992, University of California Press. 
A thoroughly researched book on repressive 
police tactics over the last thirty years, with 
much coverage devoted to covert surveillance, 
and the illegal compilation and distribution 
of dossiers. 
Cloak and Gavel (FBI Wiretaps, Bugs, 
Informers, and the Supreme Court): Alexander 
Charns. 1992, University of Illinois Press. How 
Hoover's FBI bugged, harassed, and otherwise 
attempted to manipulate the Supreme Court 
during the fifties and sixties. 
Confidential Information Sources (Public 
and Private): John Carroll. 1991, Butterworth 
Publishers. Private and public databases — who 
maintains what data on whom and what rules 
(if any) regulate how that information is dissemi- 
nated. A slow read, but a valuable sourcebook. 
The IRS and the Freedom of Information 
and Privacy Acts of 1974: Marcus Farben- 
blum. 1991, McFarland & Co. This readable guide 
details how the IRS withholds records and ob- 
scures its own procedures — and how you 
can make the IRS “tell you everything you 
have a right to know.” 
How to Achieve Personal and Financial 
Privacy In A Public Age: Mark Nestman. 
1993, Low Profile Inc. (LPP Ltd.). 
Undercover 
Gary Marx knows about undercover police 
at first hand. When the MIT sociology pro- 
fessor was a student at UC Berkeley, his 
student organization promoting racial 
equality was nearly destroyed when its 
treasurer — a police agent — embezzled 
the group's funds. But Marx's book looks 
beyond political policing and tackles a 
tougher question: In the face of 
rising crime 
and political corruption, when is undercover 
police surveillance warranted? Marx exam- 
ines this and many other uncomfortable 
questions in this extensively researched, 
surprisingly readable and lively book for 
academics and policy analysts, and arrives 
at a rather startling conclusion: “In starting 
this book, | viewed undercover tactics as 
an unnecessary evil. But in the course of 
research | have concluded, however reluc- 
tantly, that in the United States they are 
a necessary evil.” Specialists, and some 
general-interest readers, will find Marx's 
work absorbing. —RL 
e 
In a 1791 book, Panopticon or the Inspection 
House, Jeremy Bentham offered a plan for 
the perfect prison. There was to be con- 
stant inspection of both prisoners and keep- 
ers; cells were to be constructed with bars 
(rather than opaque doors) around a cen- 
tral inspection tower. His ideas helped give 
rise to the maximum-security prison, which 
today is characterized by perimeter security, 
thick walls with guard towers, spotlights, 
and a high degree of electronic surveillance. 
Many of the kinds of controls found in 
prison are diffusing into the society at large. 
It is important to ask if recent developments 
in technology, culture, and social organiza- 
tion are not pushing us toward becoming 
a maximum-security society. 
The maximum-security society is composed 
of five interrelated subsocieties: 
|. a dossier society, in which computerized 
records play a major role 
2. an actuarial or predictive society, in 
which decisions are increasingly made on 
the basis of predictions about our future 
behavior as a result of our membership 
in aggregate categories 
3. an engineered society in which our choices 
are increasingly limited and determined by 
the physical and social environment 
4. a transparent or porous soci- 
ety, in which the boundaries that 
traditionally protected privacy 
are weakened 
5. a self-monitored society in 
which auto-surveillance plays 
a prominent role. 
In such a society, the line between 
the public and private is obliter- 
ated; we are under constant ob- 
servation, everything goes on a 
permanent record, and much of 
what we say, do, and even feel 
may be known and recorded by 
others we do not know. Data 
from widely separated geographi- 
cal areas, organizations, and time 
periods can be merged and ana- 
lyzed easily. Control is embedded 
| 
and preventive; informers, dos- 
siers, and classification are promi- 
nent. The society becomes, in 
Erving Goffman’s words, a “total 
institution,” and there is no longer 
a backstage. 
Undercover 
(Police Surveillance in America) 
Gary T. Marx. University of 
California Press, 1988; 283 pp. 
ISBN 0-520-06969-2 
$13 ($16 postpaid) from Califor- 
nia/Princeton Fulfillment Services, 
1445 Lower Ferry Road, Ewing, NJ 
08618; 800/777-4726 
