his page gives you reforms for 
the ranch. But, remember: 
you buy the beef. If ranchers 
produce beef that despoils 
riparian and grassland recoy- 
sae: 
as 
BGS 
SN 
ery, that continues to kill non- 
target predators and birds, that eliminates wildlife and precludes public 
uses, then the best response is to boycott. If ranchers will not take 
responsibility for what happens to their cattle after the ranch — feedlot 
pollution, river pollution during grain production, sloppy slaughtering, 
and the employment of hormone and other chemical additives 
— why risk poisoning the nation’s rivers or your body by buying beef? 
Sustainability 
WATERSHED: COWS AND GRASS 
ee 
ee 
The quiet documents of restoration. Managing Change addresses the restoration 
of westem riparian and grazing land. The other three pamphlets are tiny seeds of 
thought on prairie restoration. By the next Catalog, this hope will overwhelm the 
page with cowboy and enviro experience. The dialog has irreversibly changed. 
—PW 
e 
The most obvious effects of a burn are eas- 
ily seen. Fire rejuvenates a prairie; more 
plants flower, produce seed, grow taller, 
and are generally more robust than the 
previous year. Specifically, fire lengthens 
the growing season for most native prairie 
plants and shortens it for the Eurasian 
Herd or use some other grazing strategy to 
limit the season, duration, and intensity of 
grazing on riparian 
areas. 
Managing Change (Livestock Grazing on 
The porterhouse feds — Democrats or Republicans — will not help. 
It’s citizen action all the way to the barn. —Peter Warshall 
Bighorns forage on heavily grazed BLM cattle range near Cody, Wyoming, but if snow piles too 
high they may starve — while the cattle responsible for the lack of forage are fed hay. 
—Waste of the West 
range condition and trend. FLPMA was sup- 
posed to have accomplished in eight brief 
years what would normally have taken na- 
ture a quarter-century to achieve. 
The snail-like pace of improvement in range 
conditions lies at the heart of the environ- 
mental controversy surrounding public 
grazing lands. Symbolic of that controversy 
is the dismal state of western wetlands. Al- 
though data are incomplete, as much as 80 
percent of all grazed riparian and wetland 
habitats on Forest Service and BLM lands 
are in depleted condition with no indication 
of recovery. 
e 
Proposed Reforms 
|. Phase out all subsidies to ranchers as 
quickly as possible. 
2. Completely eliminate use-it-or-lose-it 
rules. 
3. Eliminate base property requirements so 
that anyone can buy permits from existing 
ranchers even if they own no land. 
4. Reverse the historic policies that favor 
small allotments that promote overgrazing 
and are economically unsustainable. 
5. Dissolve community allotments into indi- 
vidual allotments or make the associations 
that run them responsible for the actions of 
their members. 
Dacernere 
Reforming the Western Range 
(Different Drummer, Spring 1994) 
Randal O'Toole, Editor. Single copy $5.95 
postpaid; $21.95/year (4 issues). 
Cascade Holistic Economic Consultants, 
14417 SE Laurie, Oak Grove, OR 97267; 
503/652-7049 
6. Reward the best ranchers with permits 
that last longer than the standard ten years. 
7. Allow national forests and BLM districts 
to set their own grazing fees. 
8. Allow the Forest Service and BLM dis- 
tricts to set their own grazing fees. 
9. Fund the agencies out of their net in- 
come, not out of tax dollars. 
10. Create a biodiversity trust fund that will 
give managers and landowners incentives to 
protect plant and animal diversity. 
“weeds.” Fire increases available nutrients 
through indirect stimulation of microbial 
activity in the soil, and by releasing a small 
amount of nutrients from the ash. Fire also 
controls invasion of shrubs and trees. 
—How to Manage Small Prairie Fires 
e 
Wherever you are, whatever your particu- 
lar riparian grazing problem there are three 
basic ways to treat. From the least to the 
most complicated, they are: 
Exclude livestock from the riparian area 
with stream corridor fencing. 
Put riparian areas in separate pastures to 
get tight control over the season, duration 
and intensity of livestock use. 
Top: Results 
of a century 
of season-long 
(June-October 
continuous 
grazing. 
How Not to Be Cowed * Waste of the West 
The Natural Resources Defense Council's How Not to Be Cowed is the ‘toolbox’ 
for activists challenging BLM allotments or seeking to take responsibility for the 
land owned by all of us (hikers, hunters, anglers, photographers, river runners, na- 
tive plant enthusiasts, biologists .. 
. ). Waste of the West is the best muckraker's 
cry for saving the grass, Not liked by anyone in ranching circles. —PW 
e 
This is not just a dispute over cows and 
sheep. It’s a fight over who controls the 
public lands. To tip the balance our way, 
we'll need a vast infusion of concern, inter- 
est, and action by all who care about these 
treasures. 
e 
Issues to Raise on Any 
Grazing-Related Decision: 
Determine whether the number of 
livestock proposed in a plan or permit 
represents an increase or a reduction in 
comparison to the “actual use” made for 
the allotment in recent years. 
Insist that BLM prepare an EA or an EIS in 
order to evaluate the potential environ- 
mental impacts of proposed range “im- 
provement” projects. 
Ask BLM to state the cost of the project 
and whether funds will realistically be avail- 
able to carry it out. 
Ask BLM to document soi! conditions in 
grazed areas, including erosion and soil 
compaction. 
Ask BLM to document the availability of 
ephemeral forage each season they propose 
to graze it. 
Insist that BLM demonstrate—and obtain 
the Fish and Wildlife Service’s concur- 
rence—that ephemeral grazing will not 
harm sensitive plant and wildlife species. 
Has BLM gathered the necessary data to 
show that state water quality improvement 
standards are being met? 
Request copies of water quality monitoring 
data and standards. —How Not to Be Cowed 
How Not to Be Cowed 
Johanna Wald. Natural Resources Defense 
Council & Southern Utah Wilderness 
Alliance, 1991; 70 pp. $3 postpaid. SUWA, 
1471 South 1100 East, Salt Lake City, UT 
84105; 801/486-3161 
Waste of the West 
(Public Lands Ranching) 
Lynn Jacobs. 1991; 602 pp. 
ISBN 0-9629386-0-2 $28 postpaid. Lynn 
Jacobs, PO Box 5784, Tucson, AZ 85703 
Western Riparian Areas): Ed Chaney, 
Wayne Elmore & William S. Platts. North- 
west Resource Information Center, 1993; 
31 pp. Free from U. S. Environmental Pro- 
tection Agency/Attn: Robert Goo, 401 M 
Street SW, Washington, DC 20460. 
Prairie Restoration for the Beginner: 
Prairie Seed Source staff. 1988; 32 pp. 
Prairie Propagation Handbook: Harold 
W. Rock. 1981; 74 pp. 
Each $4.95 ($5.45 postpaid). Wehr Nature 
Center, 9701 W. College Avenue, Franklin, 
WI 53132. 
How to Manage Small Prairie 
Wildfires: Wayne R. Pauly. 1985; 30 pp. 
$4 postpaid. Friends of Dane County Park, 
4318 Robertson Road, Madison, WI 53714; 
608/246-3896. 
Bottom: Re- 
sults after ex- 
cluding live- 
stock for five 
years. —Man- 
aging Change 
“e 
s 
> S 
N 
S 
SS //, 
