Nomadics 
LATIN AMERICA & THE CARIBBEAN 331 
Undiscovered Islands of the Caribbean 
“Undiscovered” is relative, of course. Few of 
these forty-plus tiny nations and protectorates 
are sufficiently developed to interest group-tour 
promoters. This guide covers the gamut of pos- 
sibilities, from an island humming in the pros- 
perity of a conch and lobster export industry to 
one with only 100 inhabitants and no airport. 
—Linda Morgan 
e 
| discovered one of Barbuda’s most inter- 
esting social phenomena during a walk 
through Codrington at dusk. As [a resi- 
dent] later explained, every morning the 
village residents open their gates and let 
their small herds of goats roam and graze 
freely around the island. Around such 
public buildings as the school and gov- 
ernment house, the goats mow the wild 
grass into neat, closely cropped lawns. 
As sunset approaches, the goats migrate 
back to town in herds one hundred or 
more strong. Once they reach the streets of Codrington, 
they break off into smaller groups and walk confidently 
through the neighborhood to find their own yard. 
e 
A few miles south of Ambergris is less-visited and less-ex- 
pensive Caye Caulker. The island is so narrow that you 
can see the water on the other side as you approach one 
of the little docks that the locals call “bridges.” The caye 
is virtually all beach, and the inhabited portion is so small 
that one can easily walk its length and breadth within an 
hour. It is a barefoot island; all the road and paths are 
sand, free of rocks and broken glass. After a day or two, 
one gets to know many of the 450 friendly islanders and 
the visitors who come from all parts of the world. 
Undiscovered Islands 
of the Caribbean 
Burl Willes. 1992; 264 pp. ISBN 1-56261-068-6 
$14.95 ($18.70 postpaid) from John Muir Publications, 
PO Box 613, Santa Fe, NM 87504; 800/888-7504 
Latin America by Bike 
To its credit, this guide acknowledges 
that bicycling affects all parts of travel 
— accommodations, food, security, 
maps, even buses (as you'll find when 
you try to load that bike on local ve- 
hicles to traverse routes that can’t be 
navigated on two wheels). Walter 
Sienko has distilled the practicalities 
and unpredictabilities of bicycle travel 
into a roadworthy manual for touring, 
maintenance, and safety. When you 
need that spare part in Peru, or a 
map that shows you the unpaved 
‘ 
roads and roadless hills of Colombia, 
you'll be glad it’s in your satchel. —RU 
saab SHO 
Latin America by Bike 
Walter Sienko. 1993; 256 pp. 
ISBN 0-89886-365-| 
$14.95 ($16.95 postpaid). The 
Mountaineers Books, 1101 SW Klickitat 
Way, Seattle, WA 98134; 800/553-4453 
Bicycles and bicycle shops are best viewed 
as a joke. Expect nothing for bicycles in 
Peru. | was in shops that only sold water 
bottles — no tires, tubes, or patches — 
just water bottles. With the country’s 
restrictive import laws, a 26-inch tire is a 
unique find. In the mountains, market stalls 
devoted to selling bike parts sit beside hub- 
cap dealers and banana vendors. These 
vendors, displaying chains, wheels, hubs, 
spokes, and bearings in neat organized 
rows, have parts compatible only with 
the cargo bikes used in towns as taxis. . . . 
e 
Two routes head southward through 
Patagonia. The main one, Ruta 3, follows 
the coast and carries almost all the traffic. 
On certain stretches, only one lane of the 
road remains paved, allowing traffic the 
benefit of traveling on pavement and yield- 
ing to gravel when encountering head-on 
traffic. Apart from the coastal road, other 
routes are unimproved gravel. The infa- 
mous Ruta 40, skirting the western foot- 
hills, is a rough challenge. Adding to the 
highway’s difficulty are the toils of wind and 
isolation. Despite that, Route 40 conve- 
niently connects Tierra del Fuego with the 
The best chances for finding parts and 
tools are at independent organizations. 
Surprisingly, Peru has several bicycle racing 
clubs. You can ask at these clubs for infor- 
Lake District and western South America. 
Everyone who travels this route has stories 
about it. Good or bad, the difficulty of this 
rocky, sandy highway and its harsh beauty 
are unforgettable. 
mation and help. For example, in Trujillo, 
Hugo at the Demarco Cafe enjoys helping 
visiting cyclists and has a guest book for all 
the foreign bicyclists who have pedaled 
through town. 
The People’s Guide to Mexico 
The author has traveled Mexico by 
foot, car, bus, truck, burro, kayak, and 
dugout canoe. His love and admiration 
for Mexico and its people come 
through from the very first page of this 
ninth edition. It is amazingly dense 
with information, advice, and humor, 
| supported by clever illustrations and 
thorough appendices. 
—Marguerita |, Castanera 
e 
| rate Mexican bus and train rides high on 
my “must-do” list, along with such experi- 
ences as sleeping in a hammock, haggling 
| for avocados in the market and drinking 
sweet, cinnamon-laced cafe de olla from an 
earthenware mug. In the Yucatan, like all of 
Mexico, buses and trains are literally “moy- 
ing experiences.” 
For travelers who've heard too many sto- 
ries of stomach-clenching bus trips through 
dizzying mountain ranges, the Yucatan’s flat 
terrain and straight highways offer an excel- 
lent opportunity to ease into public trans- 
portation. Whether you’re traveling on a 
budget or with a deck of credit cards, pub- 
lic transportation is a direct introduction to 
the “real” Mexico. The fact that bus and 
train rides are federally subsidized and ri- 
diculously inexpensive is frosting on the 
| cake. If you want to meet the locals on a 
| one-to-one basis, practice your halting 
| Spanish, enjoy Mexican food, fine humor 
The People’s Guide to Mexico 
Carl Franz. 1992; 588 pp. 
ISBN 1-56261-098-8 
$18.95 ($22.70 postpaid). John Muir 
Publications, PO Box 613, Santa Fe, NM 
87504; 800/888-7504 
and hospitality, just buy a ticket for the 
next train or bus. 
e 
Tourists who find themselves being hassled 
for such minor things as traffic violations, 
drunkenness or disputes with taxi drivers 
should remain calm. Don’t shout, “By 
Gawd, I’m an American citizen and you 
can’t do this... blah... blah... !” or you'll 
find yourself facing strong resentment. In 
almost every case the police will prefer to 
settle the matter quietly, on the spot, rather 
than have you drag in tourist bureau officials 
or lawyers. Be reasonable; if you’re in the 
right but expected to pay a small “consider- 
ation,” do and forget about it. 
The Adventure Guide to Jamaica * to the Dominican Republic 
* to the Virgin Islands 
Each has its own style and format, 
but their common goal is to lead 
travelers to unusual, unforgettable va- 
cations. Jamaica leans heavily toward 
outdoor activity. You may find the in- 
formation on dining and accommoda- 
tions a little brief; however, the author 
seems well informed on where to find 
authentic crafts, reggae, “ganja,” and 
Rastafarians. 
The Virgin Islands and Dominican 
Republic guides provide ample history, 
background, practical advice, and 
activities. Both take budget into con- 
sideration when suggesting hotels and 
restaurants. —Marguertta |. Castanera 
e 
There are literally thousands of street art- 
ists in Jamaica, mass producing souvenirs 
or junk found in Kingston's crafts market, 
to the real things you can buy from Peggy 
Laura or |-Rise. The museums and best 
galleries hold classics. The streets hold the 
breath of today, as fresh as the morning 
and as fleeting as the mist. Grab it while 
you can. —Jamaica 
Adventure Guide to Jamaica 
Steve Cohen. 1992; 275 pp. 
ISBN 1-55650-499-3 
$17.95 ($20.45 postpaid). 
Adventure Guide to 
the Dominican Republic 
Harry S. Pariser. 1993; 233 pp. 
ISBN 1-55650-537-X 
$13.95 ($16.45 postpaid). 
Adventure Guide to 
the Virgin Islands 
Harry S. Pariser. 1993; 224 pp. 
ISBN 1-55650-597-3 
$14.95 ($17.45 postpaid). 
All from Hunter Publishing, Inc., 300 
Raritan Center Parkway, Edison, NJ 08818; 
201/225-1900 
