Evolution’s End 
Joseph Chilton Pearce wrote the clas- 
sics Magical Child and Magical Child 
Matures, landmark works on child de- 
velopment and our society's pernicious 
effect on it. His style is dense, and 
when he starts talking about the struc- 
ture of the brain he can run away 
from you. But his basic message — 
that the modern world is interfering 
with “nature's plan” for the unfolding 
of the human being, from infancy 
through childhood and adolescence — 
is one today's parents, and society at 
large, must confront. That, and his very 
spiritual vision of what is at stake (the 
“bond of power” he has written about 
elsewhere, the eternal imprinting from 
parent to child, human potential in the 
grandest sense) make this a book to 
reckon with. —PC 
e 
Play is the foundation of creative intelli- 
gence, but, like any intelligence, it must be 
developed; in keeping with nature’s model- 
imperative, the child who is played with will 
learn to play. The child who is not played 
with will be unable to play and will be at 
risk on every level. One of the foundations 
of play is story telling. Even before they can 
speak, infants will listen raptly to adults 
speaking or telling stories. Understanding 
the words is almost incidental in the begin- 
ning, it’s the sound of those syllables that 
fascinates. In his memoirs one gentleman 
recounted how as a toddler he loved to 
snuggle into his grandfather’s lap and listen 
to him read the great philosophers, lofty 
words that predisposed that young mind 
toward higher things. 
Time-honored children’s tales are equally 
vital to the child’s development. The child 
listens to the storyteller with total entrain- 
ment; he grows still, his jaw drops, his eyes 
widen, and he stares fixedly at the speaker. 
His vision, however, turns within where the 
action is, for the words of a story stimulate 
the creation of corresponding internal im- 
ages. A little girl told me she liked radio 
more than television because the pictures 
were so much more beautiful. The radio 
words gave the stimulus; the beautiful pic- 
tures were her own creation. This imaging 
is the foundation of future symbolic and 
metaphoric thought, both concrete and for- 
mal operational thinking, higher mathemat- 
ics, science, philosophy, everything we con- 
sider higher mentation or education. 
What Kind of Kid Are You Raising? 
Take Your Pick 
Bringing Up a Moral Child (Michael 
Schulman & Eva Mekler. Addison-Wesley, 
1985). Encourage altruism and concem 
for others. 
Raising Ethical Children (Steven C. Reuben. 
Prima Publishing, 1994). Instill a sense of 
accountability and principled behavior. 
Raising Your Spirited Child (Mary Sheedy 
Kurcinka. HarperCollins, 1992). Guidance 
for parents with vexing children. 
Raising a Responsible Child (Don 
Dinkmeyer & Gary D. McKay. Fireside 
Books, Simon & Schuster, 1973). Getting 
your kid to remember his lunch, his jacket 
| and his homework. 
Evolution’s End 
(Claiming the Potential 
of Our Intelligence) 
Joseph Chilton Pearce. 1992; 256 pp. 
ISBN 0-06-250715-X 
$12 ($14.75 postpaid) from 
HarperCollins Publishers/Direct Mail, 
PO Box 588, Dunmore, PA 18512 
800/331-3761 
e 
Play develops intelligence; integrates 
our triune nature; prepares us for 
higher education, creative thought, and 
taking part in and upholding a social 
structure; helps us prepare for becom- 
ing an effective parent when that time 
comes. Play is the very force of society 
and civilization, and a breakdown in abil- 
ity to play will reflect in a breakdown of 
society... 
The major damage of television 
has little to do with content: Its damage 
is neurological, and it has, indeed, dam- 
aged us, perhaps beyond repair. First, 
television replaced story telling in most 
homes, and changed the radio from a 
storyteller to a music box. When televi- 
sion is criticized, its apologists point to 
similar warnings made when radio burst 
on the scene early in this century, but 
radio as an endless storyteller sparked the 
imagination of and helped give rise to a gen- 
eration whose creativity changed the face 
of the earth (for better or worse). Televi- 
sion, on the other, has now been with us 
far longer than radio was before television's 
introduction, and its programming has de- 
teriorated at an astonishing rate for the 
same reasons that it damages us. 
PHILOSOPHY OF CHILDREN 
Family 703 
understanding and responding. 
Ortner Great Resources 
The Winning Family: Louise Hart. Celestial Arts Publishing, 1987, 1993. Here’s help in identi- 
fying negative and/or destructive patterns that you don’t want to repeat in your own family. 
When Your Child Is Afraid: Robert Schachter. Simon & Schuster, 1988. Children’s fears are 
| powerful, and, frequently, indicators of developmental thinking. This book provides a basis for 
®: 
| Magical Child Matures: Joseph C. Pearce. Bantam Books, |986. 
| 
| Childhood and Society: Erik Erikson. W.W. Norton & Co., 1985. The book that defined your 
| adolescent identity crisis, and most of your psychological concerns before and since. 
The Hurried Child 
Ongoing social change has had broad 
and disturbing ramifications for chil- 
dren. They are expected to grow up 
quickly and sometimes alone, because 
overburdened parents have neither the 
time, patience or, often, the inclination 
to nurture, The emotional and psycho- 
logical needs of children have been 
shortchanged in a world where 
Superkid is the norm and toddlers are 
expected to read. This book will 
sharpen your thinking on how you can 
still give your child a childhood. —NAP 
e 
Young children believe that adults are all- 
knowing and all-wise. When we confront 
them with tasks for which they are not 
ready — such as tests, workbooks, and 
homework — these children blame them- 
selves for failure. “If this all-wise, all-know- 
ing person tells me | should be able to do 
this and | can’t, there must be something 
wrong with me.” We are sending too many 
children to school only to learn that they 
are “too dumb” to be there. 
e 
What can we do to help children who are 
being pressured to grow up fast and who 
experience this as inordinate stress? First of 
all, it is important to recognize what we 
cannot do. We cannot change the basic 
thrust of American society, for which hur- 
The Hurried Child 
(Growing Up Too Fast Too Soon) 
David Elkind. 1988; 217 pp. 
ISBN 0-201-07397-8 
$10.95 postpaid from Addison-Wesley 
Publishing Co./Order Dept., | Jacob Way, 
Reading, MA 01867; 800/447-2226 
rying is the accepted and valued way of life. 
Nor can we eliminate the abiding impa- 
tience that goes along with hurrying. When 
hurrying reflects cultural values like being 
punctual, then urging children to be on 
time has social justification. But the abuse of 
hurrying harms children. When hurrying 
serves parental or institutional needs at the 
expense of children without imbuing them 
with redeeming social values, the result on 
the child is negative. 
e 
Parents who make every effort to instill a 
healthy sense of industry in their children 
may find their efforts undermined by a 
school that is too bent on hurrying children 
into academics to acknowledge individual 
differences. 
Sy 
>? 
e 
Although | have no statistics to back up 
such a generalization, | would venture that 
there is a strong tie between job dissatis- 
faction, on the one hand, and a dispropor- 
tionate concern with offspring’s success in 
sports, on the other. Children thus became 
the symbols of their parents’ frustrated 
competitiveness in the workplace. The par- 
ent can take pride in the child’s success or 
blame the coach for his or her failure. In 
any case, the parent soon vicariously in- 
vests more of a commitment in the child’s 
athletic life than his or her own work life. 
