164 
Household 
GARDENING 
The Meaning of Gardens 
We make gardens for all reasons, 
following the muses of faith, power, 
ordering, cultural and personal expres- 
sion, and healing. This exploration 
considers the why, not the how. 
—Karen Van Epen 
e 
Every garden, even one just made, is a place 
haunted by spirits that whisper to our 
memory. The garden is thus nostalgic, 
reactionary. But just as strongly every 
time a garden is born, there is the hope 
that the world will be made better by it, an 
unselfconscious but radically utopian belief. 
Meaning resides in the power of the garden 
to express, clarify, and reconcile opposi- 
| tions and transform them into inspirations. 
i 
@ 
My grandfather, on the other hand, a quiet 
tailor who had escaped religious persecu- 
tion in Poland, spent considerable time in 
his garden—at least that is how | remem- 
ber it. The same mild-manneredness he ex- 
pended on a hem also found its subject in 
his backyard. | recall in particular fecund to- 
mato plants, giant bushes of blue and yellow- 
green hydrangeas, and a central feature (was 
it round?) of brilliantly colorful annuals. 
The families 
who are sharing 
their land have 
expressed an 
admiration for 
the Hmong gardeners’ hard work and tal- 
ents. The corn farmer, Ron, told me, “They 
are the most conscientious workers | have 
known.” He has continued the arrangement 
for a second year and third year. 
The Meaning of Gardens 
Mark Francis & Randolph T. Hester, Jr., 
Editors. 1992; 283 pp. ISBN 0-262-56061-5 
$24.95 ($27.95 postpaid) from The MIT 
Press/Order Dept., 55 Hayward Street, 
Cambridge, MA 02142; 800/356-0343 
Color in Your Garden 
Have you ever watched somebody 
do something they were really good at 
and then asked them to explain how 
they did it? Words often fail. Aranging 
color in a garden is like that: it involves 
positioning plants both in space and in 
time, through changes of 
bloom and 
season. Penelope Hobhouse succeeds 
at sharing years of gardening experi- 
ence and at explaining the whys of 
her very refined sense of what goes 
with what. She begins with a color 
wheel and basic theory, and moves on 
to chapters like “Clear Yellows,” “Pinks 
and Mauves,” and “Hot Colors.” Each 
chapter has a plant catalog arranged 
by season. The color photography is 
exceptional. —Richard Nilsen 
e 
There are both painters and gardeners 
who seem instinctively to understand color, 
placing pigments on a canvas or plants in a 
flowerbed with unerring discretion, which, 
often, they find difficult to explain. For 
most of us, however, understanding and 
appreciation come from a combination 
of observing what actually happens in 
nature with a study of theory. 
e 
The texture of a red petal, calyx or leaf 
surface affects the ‘redness’ we see; shining 
satiny tulips appear much lighter and 
brighter than the velvet of 
some rose petals, although 
the colors of the two may 
well match on a chart. One 
flower-petal in rain might be- 
come richer and more shining, 
another becomes sodden and dull. 
From a distance red flowers retain 
their strong eye-catching and advancing 
quality and do not blend quickly with their 
own complementary green leaves to look 
pale yellow at a distance. 
USE 
SJELOPE HOBHO 
Color in Your Garden 
Penelope Hobhouse. 1985; 240 pp. 
ISBN 0-31 6-36748-6 
$45 ($49.40 postpaid) from Little, Brown 
and Co./Order Dept., 200 West Street, 
Waltham, MA 02154; 800/343-9204 
Gardening By Mail: Barbara Barton. 1994, 
Houghton Mifflin Co. Leave it to a gardening 
librarian to collect every address you could need 
— nurseries and seed companies, garden suppli- 
ers, societies, libraries, periodicals — all in one 
superlative reference. 
Landscaping for Wildlife: Carrol L. 
Henderson, 1987. Minnesota Bookstore/Docu- 
ments Division, |17 University Avenue, St. Paul, 
MN 55155; 612/297-3000. A wealth of ideas, 
plans, and detail. Helpful to non-Minnesotans, too. 
Redesigning the American Lawn: F. Herbert 
Bormann, Diana Balmori, and Gordon T. 
Geballe. 1993, Yale University Press. Symbols of 
suburbia, lawns can be transformed to enhance 
the neighborhood. 
Fine Gardening: Betsy Levine, Editor. The 
Taunton Press, Box 5506, Newtown, CT 06470- 
5506; 800/283-7252. Beautifully illustrated pro- 
files of unique gardens and gardeners make this 
the best of the ornamental-garden magazines. 
National Gardening Association: 180 Flynn 
Avenue, Burlington, VT 05401; 802/863-1308. 
The great publications from these folks are the 
next best thing to a friendly neighborhood full 
of experienced gardeners. 
Reader’s Digest Illustrated 
Guide to Gardening 
The vast resources of Reader's Digest 
produced an impressive book. The il- 
lustrations alone involved forty-four 
different artists. With step-by-step 
captions, they are frequently all that is 
needed to explain garden chores, The 
text explains more details than most 
people would have time for in a life- 
time of gardening. My one reservation 
is the heavy reliance placed on syn- 
thetic pesticides and weedkillers 
— watch out here, or they will have 
you out there spraying everything 
from methoxychlor to paraquat. 
—RN 
Noah’s Garden 
Sara Stein discovered how 
gardening ruins life for wildlife — and 
reversed herself, redoing years and 
acres of work. If you've felt the desire 
to quit trying to save the world and re- 
tire to cultivate your own garden, take 
heart. You can do both. Perhaps you 
must do both. —Hank Roberts 
e 
I'm lucky to have spent my childhood sum- 
mers among woods, streams, meadows, 
and marshes, but most suburbanites have 
never searched for frogs’ eggs, caught fire- 
flies in a jar, or peeked into a grassy nest of 
adorable baby mice. As the years pass, fewer 
and fewer people will long for the call of 
bullfrogs. Today’s children, growing up on 
lawns and pavements, will not even have 
nostalgia to guide them, and soon the ani- 
mals will be not only missing but forgotten. 
e 
| realize now that to help one’s garden 
overmuch is to hinder it. | must have been 
living in another world when | wrote, only a 
few years ago and with considerable satis- 
faction, of the view from my window of 
our gardens “bare to their bones, neat and 
clean, nicely edged, weed-free.” Now | see 
that there is teeming life down there that, 
neatly and cleanly, | was starving. Why was 
| not replacing in their beds the limp bodies 
of weeds | had uprooted? What was | doing 
cutting flowers to the ground, raking them 
away, bagging grass clippings, blowing au- 
tumn leaves from underneath the hedge? | 
was robbing the life savings from my garden 
beds, exposing them to the elements to 
leach their lifeblood away. 
pesTaRInG THE 
Wajecotos” 
ofr Que 
OWES 
own eack YARDS 
SARA STEIN 
Noah’s Garden 
Sara Stein. 1993; 294 pp. 
ISBN 0-395-65373-8 
$21.95 ($23.45 postpaid). Houghton 
Mifflin Co./Mail Order Dept., Wayside 
Road, Burlington, MA 01803; 800/225-3362 
Reader’s Digest Illustrated 
Guide to Gardening 
Carroll C. Calkins, Editor. 
Reader’s Digest Association, Inc. 
1978; 672 pp. ISBN 0-394-21707-| 
$30 ($32 postpaid) from Random House/ 
Order Dept., 400 Hahn Road, Westminster, 
MD 21157; 800/733-3000 
