Forest 
og 
whe 
The Great Forest 
The Great Forest 
Richard G. Lillard. 1973; 
400 pp. ISBN 0-306-70534-6 $49 ($52 postpaid). 
Da Capo Press, 233 Spring Street, New York, NY 10013; 
800/321-0050 
In 1947 Richard Lillard wrote our 
nation’s first history of virgin forests, its 
love of wood (the log cabin complex), 
and the ever-recurring dialog debating 
sustainable and maximum use. Now 
with less than 5 percent of the 
nation's virgin forest remaining, we 
| 
still hear Babbittical sophistries about 
“leaving” half. To set your roots in the 
mycorrhiza of ligneous history, read 
this product, printed on, oh yes, 
temperate-forest tree flesh. 
/ —Peter Warshall 
e 
For them the trip meant severing age long 
ties with kingcraft, feudalism, and caste. 
Sensational in their eyes were the unques- 
tioned rights to hunt game animals and to 
enjoy unlimited warmth from fuel free for 
. the taking. Many had shivered around fag- 
Virgin Forests 
: 
T7850 
got fires and suffered for disobeying the 
harsh poaching laws that went back to Wil- 
liam the Conqueror. Many had lived on ce- 
reals only. In America they could help 
themselves to wild turkeys big enough to 
fill the bellies of sixteen hungry workers at 
one meal. 
The deep soil, rich in the humus of leaves, 
lay a world apart from the cold thin land of 
Scottish lairds or the enclosed estates of 
Irish overlords. 
Never before had Christians walked in so 
leafy and well-provided a paradise as this 
“Eden newly sprung from the ocean.” 
Heaven and earth had never “agreed better 
to frame a place for man’s habitation.” 
Though the forest together with the fat soil 
sustaining it had at first glance no recorded 
past, no hallowed antiquity, it promised a 
glorious future. 
e 
“The most vital material for successful 
prosecution of the war” is lumber, said 
Colonel F. G. Sherrill. During the World 
War the colonel was chief of the Materials 
and Equipment Section of the U. S. Corps 
of Army Engineers. He was the hugest 
buyer of lumber in the world’s history. Ton 
for ton, the armed forces were using more 
wood than steel, requiring three trees to 
equip and maintain each man in the army, 
two for every man in the other services. 
Wood went into a thousand articles, into 
emergency barracks and docks, hangers, 
airbase control towers, PT boats, Liberty 
ships, landing boats, life rafts, flagstaffs, la- 
trines, stretchers, crutches, chapels, prefab- 
ricated bridges, trucks, trailers, foot lockers 
for soldiers’ clothing, pontoons, cots, 
wood-cored rubber heels, and tent pegs. 
Plywood went into many of these and into 
cargo planes, trainers, gliders, and the fa- 
mous British bomber, the Mosquito. The 
biggest single wartime demand on lumber 
was for specially designed crates and boxes 
to pack each of the 700,000 different kinds 
of items needed in a big-scale invasion. 
Tank crates were the size of a small house. 
Audubon Nature Guides: Eastern and Western Forests 
The path-starter books for North 
America. Quick sketches of our forests 
and a field guide-like lope through the 
main plants and animals. —PW 
e 
Black Bear 
Habitat: In the West, forests and wooded 
mountains seldom higher than 7,000 feet. 
Ursus americanus 
Comments: This uniquely American bear, al- 
though primarily nocturnal, may be seen at 
any time, day or night, ranging in a home 
area of 8-10 square miles, sometimes as 
many as I5. It is solitary except briefly dur- 
ing mating season and when congregating 
to feed at dumps. Its walk is clumsy, but in 
its bonding trot it attains surprising speed, 
with bursts up to 30 mph. A powerful 
swimmer, it also climbs trees, either for 
protection or food. Though classified as a 
carnivore, most of its diet consists of veg- 
etation, including twigs, buds, leaves, nuts, 
roots, various fruit, corn, ber- 
ries, and newly sprouted 
plants. In spring, the bear peels 
off tree bark to get at the in- 
ner, or cambium, layer; it tears 
apart rotting logs for grubs, 
beetles, crickets, and ants. 
Small to medium-size mammals 
or other vertebrates are also 
eaten. A good fisherman, the 
Black Bear often wades in 
Western Forests 
Stephen Whitney. 
Eastern Forests 
Ann Sutton & Myron Sutton. 
Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., 1985; 
638 pp. ISBN 0-394-73126-3 
streams or lakes, snagging fish 
with its jaws or pinning them 
with a paw. It rips open bee 
trees to feast on honey, honey- 
comb, bees, and larvae. In the 
fall, the bear puts on a good 
supply of fat, then holes up for 
the winter in a sheltered place, 
such as a cave, crevice, hollow 
tree or log, or the roots of a 
fallen tree. 
Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., 1984; 
670 pp. ISBN 0-394-73127-| 
Both $14.95 ($16.95) 
postpaid from Random House/ 
Order Dept., 400 Hahn Road, 
Westminster, MD 21157; 
800/733-3000 
Black bear cub sitting 
in a Red Spruce tree, 
Great Smoky Mountains 
National Park, Tennessee 
—Eastern Forests 
From the Forest to the Sea 
A unique book on wood come loose: 
how logs floating and sinking in 
streams, rivers, estuaries, and the 
open sea supply living webs with 
much-needed food; how the shape 
and size and bulk of trunks and 
branches and twigs diversifies and sta- 
bilizes creeks and sand spits, rivers 
and dunes. If you haven't seriously 
contemplated life as a dance of or- 
ganic carbon molecules circulating the 
lands and the seas, From the Forest 
to the Sea is the watershed show- 
stopper. —PW 
e 
The forests, which through the millennia, 
have fed the ocean energy in the form of 
driftwood, especially large driftwood, are 
rapidly disappearing. Without large drift- 
wood, the ocean — from its shallowest es- 
tuary to the deepest part of its floor — is 
we 
. 
The Ecology af Wood in 
‘eae Rivers, Estuaries, 
and Oceans 
being starved of a vital source of energy, 
terrestrially based carbon. 
As our studies progressed, other questions 
came to the fore: What does it mean to 
starve the ocean? What exactly is drift- 
wood? Most people associate driftwood 
with the ocean itself, but where does it re- 
ally come from? What effect does logging, 
especially of old-growth forests, have on 
driftwood? What does driftwood do? Is it 
important? Can the growing absence of drift- 
wood be part of the problem of declining 
runs of wild salmon? What role does drift- 
wood play in the life cycle of pelagic tuna? 
From the Forest to the Sea 
James Sedell & Chris Maser. 1994; 
200 pp. ISBN |-884015-17-4 
$55 ($60.95 postpaid). St. Lucie Press, 
100 E. Linton Blvd. # 403B, Delray Beach, 
FL 33483; 407/274-9906, fax 407/274-9927 
e 
Tunas even time their migration to the Con- 
tinental Shelf for spawning to coincide with 
the onset of monsoon rains. In turn, the re- 
sulting floods carrying new driftwood to the 
sea commence as the young tunas are hatch- 
ing from their eggs. In the eastern Pacific, for 
example, it is very likely that the association 
of juvenile yellowfins with large driftwood is 
important in determining recruitment suc- 
cess. Skipjack, on the other hand, which 
spawn only infrequently in the eastern Pa- 
cific, also have strong tendency to associate 
with large driftwood. In addition, the asso- 
ciation of some species with old driftwood 
with barnacles and algae may indicate a de- 
gree of habitat specificity in the association. 
Biodiversity 
TEMPERATE FORESTS 
=A 
is 
Bi 
Coastal temperate rainforests grow along 
the Pacific rim in Chile, Tasmania, New 
Zealand, China, Japan, and North 
America. Some trees are so alike that the 
wood of Chilean alerce and California red- 
wood was switched in the market and no 
one noticed. These are forests of 
fog drip, 
twig droplets, and tremendous downpours. 
Usual rainforests have greenleafers 
outcompeting needleleafs. But not the Pa- 
cific Northwest. Usual rainforests have rain 
in the warm growing season, but not the 
Pacific Northwest. Because of the winter- 
wet/summer-dry seasonal pulse, winter- 
time leafless oaks cannot compete. For 
6,000 years, winter-growth and a mellow 
coast have grown the cathedral forests. 
| 
The most exquisite intro is Secrets of the 
Old Growth Forest by David Kelly and 
Gary Braasch (Peregrine Smith Books, 
1988; $29.95). For serious conservation 
biology try Ancient Forests of the Pacific 
Northwest by Elliott Norse (Island Press, 
1990; $19.95). 
A very focused and effective group is An- 
cient Forests International (PO Box | 850, 
Redway, CA 95560; 707/923-3015), 
which has helped save hundreds of thou- 
sands of acres of temperate rainforest in 
| 
Chile by linking Chilean and American sci- 
entists, conservationists, and networks with 
Tasmanian old-growth protectors. —PW 
Orner Great Forest Resources 
The Sierra Club Naturalist’s Guide Series: 
1978-1991, Sierra Club Books. The best intro 
bioregional guides. 
Old Growth in the East (A Survey): 
Mary Bird Davis. 1993, Cenozoic Society. 
The Southern Forest (A Chronicle): 
Laurence C. Walker. 1991, University of Texas 
Press. The only history of the southern 
deciduous hardwood and long-leaf pine forests. 
The Big Thicket (An Ecological Reevaluation): 
Pete Gunter. 1993, University of North Texas 
| 
Press. The conservation story of Texas’ most 
famous forest. 
e 
If tunas did not accompany floating drift- 
wood but instead swam randomly to find 
food, it is quite possible they would find 
themselves in waters poorer in food than 
the ones they had left. In many cases the 
transition from rich to poorer areas is 
abrupt, making it quite possible that tunas 
will enter one of the poorer areas during 
random swimming. 
