14 Whole Systems 
GIS 
Geographic Information Systems 
GIS (please: call it by its acronym) is a computer system that assembles, stores, manipulates, and displays 
geographically referenced information. The product is a digital map whose elements (points, 
lines, and areas) are windows into its database. Maximum usefulness is achieved by 
relating several elements. For instance, emergency response to the disastrous 
Midwest floods of 1993 was aided by GlSs that calculated phone numbers within a 
certain contour line — seemingly unrelated data that sped the evacuation of flood zones 
and accomplished in minutes what would have taken hours of poring over telephone books 
KASS 
KS 
‘ 
Vingiticete 
and topo sheets. 
GIS’s roots predate the digital revolution by at least a century. Dr. John Snow’s famous visual correlation 
of cholera deaths and polluted wells in 1854 London was an early landmark, and the work of lan McHarg, 
popularized in his 1969 Design With Nature was pre-acronymic GIS. It wasn’t until 
the advent of accessible computers that GIS could grow into the industry it is today. 
Don’t go out and buy a GIS — yet. The systems can be expensive, learning curves 
long, and formats not necessarily mutually compatible. Many public jurisdictions and 
groups with an interest in the land base, e.g., planning departments, forestry services, 
Audubon chapters (especially where policy battles are being fought) need interns 
and volunteers to help with data acquisition and digitization. Learn GIS while you 
work for your favorite cause. —Don Ryan 
GIS World 
To enter geographic information sys- 
tems through GIS World is to dive into 
the deep end. But don’t worry, there 
are plenty of lifeguards and coaches 
to help the novice. One reason is that 
GIS is a rapidly growing industry; stu- 
dents and might-be students are 
needed to fill the job vacancies of the 
near future. For another thing, GIS 
feeds on information and cross-fertili- 
Zation from within and without the in- 
dustry; ad hoc partnerships and 
collaborations abound. A high rate 
of citizen input is desirable, if not es- 
sential, especially in matters of public 
policy such as environmental planning. 
The GIS industry encourages this, and 
GIS World keeps track. 
GIS World also offers a sister periodi- 
cal, Business Geographics, and many 
more specialized books from their 
mailorder bookstore. —Don Ryan 
e 
My first GIS work taught me a lesson in 
environmental ethics. We developed 
an approach for siting noxious facili- 
ties, intending to resolve conflicts by 
enabling each interest group to for- 
See “GIS asa 
Political Tool” (p. 293). 
International GIS Sourcebook. 1994, GIS 
World Inc. A yearbook of biblical proportions that 
accesses companies (hundreds), educational pro- 
grams (more than two hundred institutions world- 
wide), and over three hundred GlS-related software 
products. 
GIS Applications in Natural Resources. 
Michael Heit & Art Shortreid, Editors. 1991, GIS 
World Inc. The best sixty-three papers from Forestry 
Canada’s “GIS 1987 to 1991” symposium series. 
Simple Computer Imaging and Mapping. 
Micha Pazner, Nancy Thies & Roberto Chavez. 
1993, Think Space, Inc., London, Ontario, 
Canada. Low-cost desktop image processing tech- 
niques for creating digital spatial and pictorial data- 
bases, atlases, and wall maps. 
Profiting from a Geographic Information 
System. Gilbert H. Castle, Editor. 1993, GIS 
World Inc. Increase revenues, reduce costs, en- 
hance customer relations, and improve profitability 
through GIS. 
GIS World: $72/year (12 issues). 
Business Geographics: Free to qualified 
individuals. GIS World Inc.: 155 E. Board- 
walk Drive, Suite 250, Fort Collins, CO 
80525. Phone: 303/223-4848; fax: 
303/223-5700. 
mulate criteria based on its own values. We 
felt good about the design. But when | vis- 
ited a highly favored site, | found one of the 
most idyllic landscapes in the Eastern 
United States — the kind of place | would 
fight to preserve. What troubles me still is 
that no one ever paid to add aesthetics into 
that early GIS, even though it would have 
been technically feasible. 
During the years, | have used GIS to help 
make decisions with great impacts on 
people’s lives, and the memory of that first 
experience always reminded me that GIS 
and its practitioners have limits. | doubt GIS 
will turn us all into “drive-by” developers, 
but we should question what GIS is doing 
to us and to society at large. 
—Jerome E. Dobson 
U.S. Geological Survey 
If you're just curious about the breadth 
of GIS or are an educator of 
any stripe 
who wants to open the world of geo- 
graphic information systems to a po- 
tential practitioner, “Geographic Infor- 
mation Systems” is a very detailed 
and colorfully illustrated brochure that 
unfolds into an attractive poster. If you 
want to put it on the wall for display, 
get two so you can display both infor- 
mation-packed sides at once. 
—Don Ryan 
e 
If you could relate information about the 
rainfall of your State ormation from many 
different sources, in many different forms, 
can help with such analyses. The primary 
requirement for the source data is that the 
locations for the variables are known. Loca- 
tion may be annotated by x, y, and z coor- 
dinates of longitude, latitude, and elevation, 
or by such systems as ZIP Codes or high- 
way mile markers. Any variable that can be 
located spatially can be fed into a GIS. 
Several computer data bases that can be di- 
rectly entered into a GIS are being pro- 
duced by Federal agencies and private 
firms. Different kinds of data in map form 
can be entered into a GIS. A GIS can also 
ARC/INFO 
ARC/INFO and PC ARC/INFO have es- 
tablished themselves as the industry- 
standard GISs. 
The MS/DOS version, PC ARC/INFO, 
requires an IBM-compatible 80286 
or faster processor with a minimum 
of 40 megabytes of hard-disk storage 
and 80287 or 80387 numerical 
co-processor. A high-resolution 
color graphic display is highly recom- 
mended. The newly emerging PC 
standard includes a dedicated graph- 
ics coprocessor and screen resolution 
of 768 x 1024 pixels or better. There 
is no Macintosh version available. 
PC ARC/INFO comes in modules — 
PC Starter Kit, PC ArcEdit, ArcPlot, 
PC Overlay, PC Data Conversion, and 
PC Network. The fully installed pro- 
gram occupies about 29 megabytes 
of hard-disk storage. 
The ARC system stores geographical 
feature locations as a set of coordi- 
nates and as relationships between 
connected or adjacent features. The 
relationships used to represent the 
connectivity of contiguous features 
are referred to as topology. The 
geographic features are digitally 
stored in computer files as layers 
convert existing digital information, which 
may not yet be in map form, into forms it 
can recognize and use. For example, digital 
satellite images can be analyzed to produce 
a map-like layer of digital information about 
vegetative cover. Likewise, census or hy- 
drologic tabular data can be converted to 
map-like form, serving as layers of thematic 
information in a GIS. 
Geographic Information 
Systems: Free. USGS Earth 
Science Information Center, 
507 National Center,Reston, 
VA 22092; 800/USA-MAPS 
Cro-Magnon hunters drew 
pictures of the animals they 
hunted, with tallies and track 
lines thought to depict migra- 
tion routes. These records fol- 
lowed the two-element struc- 
ture of modern geographic 
information systems: 
a graphic file linked to an 
attribute data base. At right is 
a modern example showing 
caribou migration in Alaska. 
or “coverages.” Typical coverages 
assembled for a USGS standard 7.5- 
minute quadrangle (1:24,000 scale) 
might include elevation, soil types, veg- 
etation types, hydrography, or roads 
and ownership boundaries. 
After leaming the ARC/INFO software 
system, input of graphic and feature 
attributes is the largest task associ- 
ated with building a GIS. Maps may 
be digitized or scanned into computer 
files and then imported into ARC cov- 
erages. Standard graphical output 
is to a plotter or to a Postscript- or 
Laserjet-compatible laser printer. 
Some dot-matrix printers are sup- 
ported at lower graphic resolutions. 
—Eric and Steve Beckwitt 
ARC/INFO: Information from Envi- 
ronmental Systems Research Institute/ 
Marketing Dept., 380 New York Street, 
Redlands, CA 92373; 909/793-2853 
Lake County (IL) Landfill Site Screening, by 
Robert Lindquist. This series of maps illustrates 
the site screening process employed by the 
Lake County Joint Action Solid Waste Planning 
Committee to delimit areas of suitability for 
a new landfill. 
