an 
1 olga 
for a physician’ ‘s care, Self- 
ron ‘normal human anatomy 
and ph pci 
ot 
is 
Jude in order to make the rest of the book more 
to those giving first aid. 
sted and Reviewed by Eugene Schoenfeld] 
Sar 
ncy Medical Guide 
John 
Henderson, M.D. 
1963, 1969; 556pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
McGraw-Hill Book Co. 
Princeton Road 
Hightstown, New Jersey 08520 
Manchester Road 
Manchester, Missouri 63062 
8171 Redwood Highway 
Novato, California 94947 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
_ 
Fic, 8-9. Procedure for reducing a simple dislocation of a finger, 
applying pull on each side of the affected joint. 
Thumb. Do not attempt to set a dislocation of a thumb. Be- 
cause of its complicated anatomy, reduction may require a minor 
operation. Cover the thumb with a protective compress, support 
the hand in.a-sling, and seek medical aid. 
Fic. 4-1. Ejecting a foreign body stuck in child's Adon at bya 
harp. blow between the shoulder blades. 
iortant.t to keep the victim of the attack from aspirating 
choking on vomited matter, but since most attacks will terminate 
rmlessly by themselves, regardless of what you do or do not do, 
tect the victim from injury and bide your time. When he 
do. not be unduly sympathetic—you may only embarrass 
e him & drink of water or tea, protect him from curious 
rs, _and be sure that he is well enough to go on his way or 
iS taken home. If the condition is more serious, see that he 
_ Fic. 15-1. A cradle to le bedelothes off legs and feet, made 
from 
a cardboard carton. 
Commonsense Childbirth 
Mrs, Hazell writes from the personal experience of having 
had one child under anaesthesia, another using La 
Maze method, and a third at home. The book covers 
pregnancy, birth, and care of the newborn. It is gently 
positive about husband-coaching and breastfeeding. 
There’s a good chapter on home deliveries. It’s written by 
an intelligent woman, and it doesn’t needlessly complicate 
what is really a very simple method of controlled breathing 
and relaxation. 
[Reviewed by Pam Smith. Suggested by Judith Baggs] 
Commonsense Childbirth 
Lester Dessez Hazell 
1969; 243pp. 
$1 .25 postpaid 
from: 
Tower Publications 
185 Madison Avenue 
New York, New York 10016 
Atomolete guide tothe cow 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
“damaly cxntered appienacts te the joys. 
and peobivisn of pregnary. 
chuldtecth, and the test sxonttes of lite, 
Pregnancy, Childbirth and the Newborn, 
A Manual for Rural Midwives 
This manual was first published in 1950 to teach women and 
girls in China who had very little education. Since then it 
has been enlarged and adapted to other countries, so that 
it is now also published in Portuguese, Spanish, and English. 
Lessons include anatomy, physiology of the female repro- 
ductive organs, the progress and conduct of pregnancy and 
childbirth, and the care of the newborn. The illustrations 
and directions will certainly aid anyone interested in a 
home delivery, since the manual is written for rural mid- 
wives without access to modern, sterile hospitals. The 
suggestions are practical and economical. 
[Suggested and Reviewed by Haru Bekker] 
EDITH J. a cee aaa HEMINGWAY 
PREGNANCY, 
P 
Childbirth 
CHILDBIRTH AND THE NENBORN | and'the Newborn, 
4 MANUAL FOR RURAL MIDI IVE 
A Manual for 
Rural Midwives 
Leo Eloesser, Edith Galt 
and Isabel Hemingway 
1959; 150 pp. 
$1 25 postpaid 
from: 
Ninos Heroes, 139 
Mexico 7, D.F. 
MEXICO 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
COMPLICATIONS OF DELIVERY 
Breech Delivery 
In about 3% of all deliveries the breech presents. There is not 
much danger for the mother, but 10% of breech babies die, many 
of them from trouble with breathing (asphyxia). If 
properly handled the danger is much less. 
Conduct. If a breech presentation is diagnosed in a first pregnancy, 
get help for the delivery or send the patient to a hospital, if 
possible. 
t 
|f the patient has had other babies, or is in active labour, do your 
best to deliver the baby. 
Measures to hasten delivery, such as an enema or having the 
mother walk, should be omitted. 
When the presenting part is in sight, do not hurry but let the 
buttocks stretch the perineum slowly. Let the mother deliver 
the baby. When the whole body is born, support it on your left 
hand and forearm, using the middle finger of your left hand to 
find the baby’s mouth and make a complete flexion of the 
baby’s head. At the same time, press on the fundus with the right 
hand, or ask a helper to do so, and the head will be born, Do not 
pull on the baby at any time. 
My own point of view on home delivery is influenced by the fact 
that all my experience with it has been positive. 
Babies born at 
home seem better to me in every respect, and my students who 
have had both home and hospital deliveries prefer home. These 
babies are born crying and healthy, and with their mothers they 
continue in the pattern of life they have been living the last nine 
months. 
® 
What a mother eats has a profound effect on the outcome of her 
pregnancy and on her baby’s start in life. A number of very 
convincing studies tie complications of pregnancy to a poor- 
quality diet. Not only do many minor annoyances of pregnancy 
vanish when ample amounts of necessary elements are added to 
the diet, but the baby is basically affected as well. One study 
found that 94 percent of babies born to mothers whose diet was 
excellent were perfect specimens, whereas 92 percent of babies 
whose mothers’ diets were inadequate in as little as one element 
were defective in some way. 
It has been my observation that the 
women who feel on top of the world are usually the ones who take 
good food seriously and concentrate on eating types of food that 
contain the raw material with which to maintain health and manu- 
facture a healthy baby. 
You certainly don’t have to become a nutrition expert, however, 
to provide yourself with high-quality food. The trick is to keep 
your eye on how much protein you eat and at the same time to 
see that you get something every day from each of the four major 
food groups: 
1) meat-egg; 2) milk-cheese; 3) vegetable-fruit; 
4) bread-cereal. 
If we want to use a mnemonic device, we can call 
this the P-4 plan: Eat lots of protein in each of the basic four 
every day. 
e 
As soon.as the bearing-down reflex is established, second stage is 
begun. For the next few contractions you push your baby down 
two steps, and he slides back one. This can be discouraging if 
you don't realize that this is the normal pattern of labor. However, 
when you stop to think about it, this makes good sense, 
In this 
way your passages are dilated gently and slowly by the plunger 
action of the baby, the baby has fluid squeezed from his lungs, his 
skin is stimulated preparatory to his existence in a world that will 
be constantly touching him, and then during the interval between 
contractions everyone rests. 
What does the bearing-down reflex feel like? Everyone has exper- 
ienced this to some degree. 
It is very like the pushing of a bowel 
movement, only more sustained and more demanding. 
It is far easier 
not to push when one is having a bowel movement than when one 
is having a baby. However, the second-stage contractions are not, as 
a rule, painful. 
In fact, they are very satisfying. You may be sur- 
prised at the noises you make. So may your family. 
‘ 
e 
The first milk that flows is the high-protein, nonfat type. This 
fairly gushes into the baby’s mouth. 
Later when the flow is slower 
comes the cream. The cream sticks to the baby’s ribs because it 
digests more slowly than the nonfat milk. 
It is also more filling. 
So it is providential that while the baby is nursing vigorously in the 
first flush of hunger, he does not get his high-calorie dessert. Entrée 
before ice cream is a habit formed early! 
Thus a baby knows best how to regulate how long he should nurse. 
He does this according to the needs of his stomach as well as for 
the joy of cuddling with his mother. 
The let-down of the milk is a conditioned reflex. 
In the early days 
of nursing the milk flows frequently at only the thought of the 
baby or even the cry of someone else’s baby. Later this becomes 
conditioned to the particular baby’s sucking. Hence the working 
mother can go all day long and not feed her baby, and her breasts 
will remain flat and comfortable. As soon as her baby takes a few 
sucks, the milk flows in any quantity he needs. 
We know that gross brain damage rises in direct proportion to the 
amount of analgesic medication given to the mother during her 
labor. The baby of an anesthetized and dopey mother wil! have 
been subjected to the same or greater degree (relative to body 
size) of anesthesia and dopiness at a time when he needs to breathe 
well and when his circulation should be operating at peak efficiency. 
Yet the educated laboring woman finds that at every turn she must 
defend her position that she doesn’t need analgesic medication as 
one attendant after another presses her to accept such nostrums. 
She may even have to apologize for not wanting to take medicine 
which she knows could jeopardize her baby. 
* 
Childbirth Education 
ICEA is engaged in furthering the cause of family-centered 
maternity and infant-care and believes in closer roles for the 
father during childbirth and periods before and after, 
breast-feeding, the La Maze natural childbirth method, and 
generally, further education about childbirth for all concerned. 
They answer specific questions about childbirth, help 
organize classes, and “make available through the ICEA 
Supplies Center significant information on all aspects of 
childbirth education and family-centered maternity and 
infant care.” 
Information 
from: 
International Childbirth Education Association 
P.O. Box 5852 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
Catalog 
free (presumably) 
from: 
International Childbirth Education Association 
208 Ditty Building 
Bellevue, Washington 98004 
