Expanded Cinema 
Gene Youngblood 
1970; 432 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid 
from: 
E. P. Dutton, Inc. 
102 Park Avenue South 
Radical Software 
fe get 
letters—saying how encouraging, enspiriting, 
possibility-expanding the Whole Earth Catalog /s— 
embarrassing amount of gratitude in these letters. Well, i t's 
ow | 
feel about Radical Softwear; A double handful of fast 
oung heads have entered do-it-yourself TV and gotten 
acquainted with each other, and now started a tabloid of 
utual read-out, aiding each other’s scuffle for equipment, 
pudience, comprehension, concepts, values. They sense 
power 
(95% of U.S. homes have TV) and unexplored 
territory 
(broadcast TV still scarcely seems to know what it 
js) and the hard cider of dwelling on evolution’s imploding 
edge (maybe. [alwaysmaybe.].) In a way it’s about time: 
e have head radio, head recores, head books, magazines, 
ewspapers, head movies; very little head TV. [Beware beware 
of controlling all your inputs lest ye become your own 
aricature.] These are TV heads, getting restless, with a fine 
access publication. | hope it stays solvent and publishing. High 
content goods. 
7 
Soe 
—SB 
Radical Softwear 
$1 .25 per issue 
from:* 
Raindance Corporation 
24 East 22nd Street 
New York, New York 10010 
“Water systems engineers must build city water supply systems 
to accommodate the drop in water pressure occasioned by the 
toilet-flushing during television commercials. 
at 
Vic and | recorded a conversation between us using full body shots 
on a split screen. We were seated facing each other. A week later we 
played the tape back using slow motion and no sound. We both 
cing the screen imitating the kinetics of the other on the screen 
erbalizing how we felt from going through those motions. It 
raordinary. Holding my head and rocking back and forth.in 
imitation of Vic. ’’Y eah, I’m listening to what you're saying, Ryan, 
but I'm really getting ready to strike back.’’ Following a diminutive 
hand gesture ‘Let me make it nice and small, Ryan, so that you can 
understand it. “ Vic was scoring on me ina 
similar way and we 
laughing our heads off. What was even more extraordinary was 
wh 
ioke up the next morning, ! felt like | was wearing his body. 
That 
| 
had it on. | called up Vic and started telling him how | felt 
about the 
relation between his/my stomach and shoulders, stomach 
d, torso and legs, etc. etc. Each time Vic confirmed | was 
‘ight 
on. For the next few weeks | found | could recall this sense of 
his bo ly when | wanted. 
Sai 
¥ 
r 
GUNS, KNIVES OR VIDEOTAPE* 
works this way. Two people, 
eacl h 
with a portable pack and camera, face off fifteen feet apart. 
At agiven signal they start “shooting” each other. Both roll tape 
continuously for five 
minutes. Then both tapes are played 
pack 
simultaneously on two monitors set up side by side. The 
are 
iid 
be large enough so that participants can move around. 
\ ariations are possible, Doubling up in teams of two, doing it in 
ar se ‘room, setting up a third camera on a stationary 
— 
; 
‘0 catch the whole duel for playback with the participant s 
1 Pontiac, Michigan 
New York, New York 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
SY) 
It has taken more than seventy years for global man to come to 
terms with the cinematic medium, to liberate it from theatre and 
literature, We had to wait until our consciousness caught up with 
our technology. But although the new cinema is the first and only 
true cinematic language, it still is used as a recording instrument. 
The recorded subject, however, is not the objective external human 
condition but the filmmaker’s consciousness, his perception and its 
process. | f we've tolerated a certain absence of discipline, it has 
been in favor of a freedom through which new language hopefully 
would be developed. With a fusion of aesthetic sensibilities and 
technological innovation that language finally has been achieved. 
The new cinema has emerged as the only aesthetic language to 
match the environment in which we life. 
Blackwell's Books, England 
Blackwell’s Bookstore in Oxford, England, is a service which 
the Catalog.should list. Their collection is probably the 
world’s most comprehensive and they run a global service, 
providing lengthy, free, separate catalogs on about 25 subject 
areas, including children’s books, books in other 
languages, science, literature, philosophy, religion, math- 
ematics, ete. Their prices are significantly lower and they 
will not send a book which can be obtained more cheaply 
in America unless you so request. They will open an 
account for you, accept your personal check, and bill you 
semi-annually. They also buy up old libraries (occasionally 
famous ones, recently John Masefield’s) and issue catalogs 
on second-hand books and first editions. They have a 
cable code BOOKS OXFORD and a code system for some 
catalogs which enables you to place an order with a minimum 
of cost in a hurry. The books arrive slowly but the catalogs 
keep coming in all year long and are a great delight 
themselves. 
[Suggested and Reviewed by Larry Sch wartz] 
Catalog 
free 
from: 
Blackwell's 
Broad Street 
, Oxford, ENGLAND 
METHODS OF PAYMENT 
Orders and correspondence should, in every case, be sent 
direct to Oxford. The following addresses are for remittances 
only. 
U.S.A. and American Account Area: by personal check in 
dollars (£1=$2.40) sent to Blackwell’s in Oxford; or to B.H. 
Blackwell, Ltd., P.O. Box 1452, Church Street Station, 
New York, New York 10008 (for their account with the 
Bankers Trust Co:). 
Canada: by personal cheque in Canadian dollars (£=$2.61) 
sent to Blackwell's, or to The Canadian Imperial Bank of 
Commerce, P.O. Box 6003, Montreal 3, P.Q., or by Bank 
Draft in sterling, or by Canadian Postal Money Order. 
Prices given for Blackwell’s in the Whole Earth Catalog do 
not include shipping. 
The Crush of Television 
“There are 60 million homes in the United States and over 95 
percent of them are equipped with a television set. (More than 25 
percent have two or more sets) In the average home the television 
is turned on some five hours forty-five minutes a day. The average 
male viewer, between his second and sixty-fifth year, will watch 
television for over 3000 entire days—roughly nine full years of 
his life. During the average weekday winter evening nearly half of the 
the American people are to be found silently seated with fixed 
gaze upon a phosphorescent screen.” 
* 
The Tibetan Book of the Great Liberation 
toward knowing the mind 
(talking to yourself) 
and the liberation of realization, 
nirvana, 
oneness with voidness, 
together, 
now, 
and the evaporation of karma, 
poof. 
=r | 
[Suggested by Sam Bercholz] 
THE TIBETAN 
BOOK OF The 
GREAT 
LIBERATION 
The Tibetan Book 
of the Great Liberation 
W.Y. Evans-Wentz, editor 
1969; 261 pp. 
$2.25 postpaid 
from: 
Oxford University Press 
200 Madison Avenue 
New York, New York 10016 
rhe metine 
DING, MIRVAMA TRROUGIY 
AIRE BOC GTS: 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
In the process of meditating introspectively upon the aphoristic 
teachings concerning the One Mind, the disciple will inevitably 
come face to face with the age-old problem of what man is. He will 
intuitively ask himself, Why am |? What am 1? Am 1a something, 
a self, a soul, eternally separate and different from each of the 
countless myriads of similarly constituted beings | see round 
about me in various states of existence? Is the glamorous world 
of appearances real? Are all these inanimate objects and all these 
living, breathing creatures, in the midst of which | find myself, 
real? Or are they, as the Buddhas declare, no more than the content 
of a karmic mirage, the stuff composing the dreams of life? 
When the truth begins to come from within, very feebly at first, 
like the consciousness of a man awakening from the torpor of 
a drugged sleep, or like the first traces of dawn coming forth in an 
eastern sky, the disciple will realize gradually that only by transcending 
the realm of separateness and attaining super-consciousness of 
the immutable at-one-ment of all things, organic and inorganic, can* 
the age-old problem be solved. The more the disciple meditates upon 
what the self has in common with other selves, the more he 
will discover the impersonal self common to all selves. Thence 
he will reach the conclusion that if one and the same factor 
is the core of each individual's selfhood, no individual in its 
true essence had individuality. There would be nothing like my 
self; there would only be the Self. 
The One Mind being verily of the Voidness and without any 
foundation, one’s mind is, likewise, as vacuous as the sky. TO 
know whether this be so or not, look within thine own mind. 
Being of the Voidness, and thus not to be conceived as having 
beginning or ending, Self-Born Wisdom has in reality been shining 
forever. Like the Sun’s essentiality, itself unborn. To know whether 
this be so or not, look within thine own mind. 
Being merely a flux of instability like the air of the firmament, 
objective appearances are without power to fascinate and fetter. 
To know whether this be so or not, look within thine own mind. 
All appearances are verily one’s own concepts, self-conceived in 
the mind, like reflections seen in a mirror. To known whether this be 
so or not, look within thine own mind. 
Arising of themselves and being naturally free like the clouds in the 
sky, all external appearances verily fade away into their own 
respective places. To know whether this be so or not, look within 
thine own mind. 
The Realization and the Great Liberation 
Nothing save mind is conceivable. 
Mind, when uninhibited, conceives all that comes into existence. 
That which comes into existence is like the wave of an ocean. 
The state of mind transcendent over all dualities brings Liberation. 
It matters not what name may carelessly be applied to mind; 
truly mind is one, and apart from mind there is naught else. 
That Unique One Mind is foundationless and rootless. 
There is nothing else to be realized. 
The Non-Created is the Non-Visible. 
By knowing the invisible Voidness and the Clear Light through 
not seeing them separately—there being no multiplicity in the 
Voidness—one’s own clear mind may be known, yet the Thatness 
itself is not knowable. 
Mind is beyond nature, but is experienced in bodily forms. 
The.realization of the One Mind constitutes the All-Deliverance. 
Without mastery of the mental processes there can be no 
realization, 
Similarly, although sesamum seed is the source of oil, and 
milk the source of butter, not until the seed be pressed and the 
milk churned do the oil and butter appear. 
Although sentient beings are of the Buddha essence itself, 
not until they realize this can they attain Nirvana. 
Even a cowherd [or an illiterate person] may by realization 
attain Liberation. 
