liber ale 
The New Age Vegetarian apkoook. 
ose Against Brown Sugar (T.A.B.S.). For the 
al, i has added virtues—a complete food value 
enu 
suggestions, a chapter on canning & preserving 
dex of uses (cooking and medicinal; of common 
’ vi 
Reviewed by Pam Smith. 
_ Suggested by George de Alth] 
NEW AGI 
N 
nates TARIAN 
COOKBOOK 
New Age Vegetarian Cookbook 
The Rosicrucian Fellowship 
1968; 492 pp. 
$5.50 postpaid 
from: 
The Rosicrucian Fellowship 
Mount Ecclesia 
P.O. Box 713 
Oceanside, California 92054 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
_ EGG YOLK SUBSTITUTE 
1 heaping Tbs soybean flour 
% cup water 
Optional: vegetable coloring 
Pinch of vegetable salt 
Combine flour and water in pan and boil until thick, all the 
ile stirring constantly. Strain into bowl and mix in soybean 
oil until it becomes thick enough to cut with knife. Season with 
_ salt and add coloring. This may be used wherever egg yolk 
Bperece 
ASIC NUTMEAT 
ups raw peanuts, shelled and blanched 
‘bs coconut oil 
tsp vegetable salt 
out 5 cups distilled water 
1 cup soybean meal 
tt peanuts through food chopper with finest knife until the 
nsistency of fine meal; add oil and mix well. Thin with water to 
nsistency of heavy cream. Add salt and meal. Boil about 4 
urs in double boiler. Makes 2% to 3 pounds. As this is highly 
ncentrated, it is best to use combined with roasts, stews, soups, 
etc 
e 
VITAMINS 
STUFFED PEPPERS 
reen peppers 
2 Tbs vegetable oil 
cups sieved tomatoes 
Vegetable salt 
cup juice of tomatoes 
2/3 cup sunflower seeds 
1 cup diced green beans 
 % cup hot distilled water 
cup wholekernel corn 
1 cup steamed brown rice 
Optional: grated cheese 
Sut | 
t tops. from peppers; remove seeds; drop i 
in boiling water one 
; 
nute. Combine all vegetables and oil; simmer 10 to 15 minutes; 
stir often. Mix in sunflower seeds and salt. Add mixture to peppers 
‘in baking dish. Top with cheese. Add a little hot water to baking 
h to keep peppers moist while baking in 375 degree F. oven 
Verta 
Mae is a Geechee girl from South Carolina and she 
likes 
“simple—plain—ordinary” food. She’s got wise words 
fe 
ou on the “demystification of food” and says to rely 
on the good vibrations of your kitchen and your heart 
turn the cooking ritual into a beautiful everyday 
appening. It’s tasty—the raps and the recipes. 
*—HH 
ttl 
k 
bie 
Wak abe 
ee 
PS 
fae 
Vibration Cooking 
Verta Mae 
1970; 190pp. 
se 
$1 95 postpaid 
from: 
Doubleday and Company, Inc. 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, New York 11531 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
\MITE BLACK 
pether 1 cup sugar, 1 cup dates, 1 cup walnut meats, 
joons flour and 1% teaspoons baking powder to a 
hen add 3 beaten eggs and some vanilla extract. Bake 
Linutes in a moderate oven. 
polit inka 
thy 
Roslecudlans-ate- al 
: moose stew, reindeer pot roast, ‘ptarmigan with orange rice, 
this book does indeed mean northern cooking. designed 
_for cooks in the northwest territories and northern 
people without supermarkets, the recipes use 
northern animals and vegetables, fresh and canned, 
dried and preserved. it is a good guide to what 
can be done with what can be stored. 
—jd 
Northern Cookbook 
Eleanor A. Ellis, editor 
1967; 68; 358 pp. 
$3.50 postpaid 
from: 
Roger Duhamel 
Queen’s Printer 
Ottawa, Ontario 
CANADA 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
SOURDOUGH STARTER 
2 cups flour 
2 cups warm water 
1 package dry granular yeast or 
1 yeast cake 
Mix well, then place in a warm place or closed cupboard overnight. 
In the morning it should be bubbly or frothy, and is called a sponge. 
Take out % cup of the sponge and place it in a scalded pint jar 
with a tight cover and store in the refrigerator or a cool place for 
future use. This Sourdough Starter is. The remaining sponge is 
ready to be used for pancakes, waffles, muffins, bread, or cake 
immediately. 
GOLDEN PEACH PIE 
1 can peach slices 
1 cup syrup from peaches 
1/3 cup sugar 
1% teaspoons cornstarch 
% teaspoon salt 
1% teaspoon orange juice 
. 
1 teaspoon grated orange rind 
1 tablespoon butter or margarine 
Pastry for 8-inch crust and stars or strips for top 
. Drain peaches, reserving syrup. 
. Heat syrup to boiling. 
Blend together sugar, cornstarch and salt and stir into hot 
syrup. 
Cook until thick and clear. 
Add orange juice, rind and butter. 
. Arrange peach slices in pastry-lined pie pan and pour thickened 
syrup Over peaches. 
. Arrange pastry stars or strips on top. 
. Bake in hot over 425 degrees F. for 3 to 35 minutes. 
‘\ 
In reading lots and lots of cookbooks written by white folks it 
occurred to me that people very casually say Spanish rice, French 
fries, Italian spaghetti, Chinese cabbage, Mexican beans, Swedish 
meatballs, Danish pastry, English muffins and Swiss cheese. And 
with the exception of black bottom pie and niggertoes, there is 
no reference to black people's contribution to the culinary arts. 
White folks act like they invented food and like there is some 
weird mystique surrounding it—something that only Julia and 
Jim can get to. There is no mystique. Food is food. Everybody 
eats! 
And when | cook, | never measure or weigh anything. | cook by 
vibration. | can tell by the look and smell of it. Most of the 
ingredients in this book are approximate. Some of the recipes that 
people gave me list the amounts, but for my part, | just do it by 
vibration. Different strokes for different folks. Do your thing your 
way. 
e 
. 
HOPPING JOHN 
Cook black-eyed peas. 
When they are almost done add rice. 
Mix rice and peas together. 
Season and—voila!/—you got it. 
And speaking of rice. | was sixteen years old before | knew'that 
everyone didn’t eat rice everyday. When you said what you 
were eating for dinner, you always assumed that rice was there. 
That was one of my jobs too. To cook the rice. A source of pride 
to me was that | cooked rice like a grown person. | could cook it 
_ till every grain stood by itself, What you do is to rub it together 
in the palms of your hands and make sure you get all grains 
washed. Then you put it in a pot with cold water. 
Use 1 part rice to 2 parts water. Always use cold water. Let it 
come to a boil and cover it with a tight cover. Soon as it comes 
to a boil you turn it to simmer and you cover with a tight 
cover. Let it cook for exactly 13 minutes and then cut it off. Let it 
stand for 12 minutes before eating. 
STEAK WITH BEAUTIFUL BLACK SAUCE 
Sprinkle the sides of each steak with ground pepper. Let stand 
for 1 hour. Brush your black skillet with beef suet and heat the 
skillet. Cook the steaks to your desire and remove steaks to a 
platter and add butter to the skillet and cook butter until it 
almost is black. Pour butter over and serve. 
* 
Let’s Cook It Right 
Sat 
I’d recommend Let's Cook It Right just for plain easy 
delicious recipes, down-home-style, even if it weren’t 
for the nutritional advice, which is also well worth getting 
ahold of. Sure, Adelle Davis is kind of a fanatic, but I’ve 
learned a Jot from her in the past year about how to cook 
without destroying food value. As it turns out, this often 
means cooking quicker and tastier anyway. Since she 
explains the nutritional principles behind her methods, 
you can easily learn to apply her methods to recipes from 
other cookbooks. | particularly like the sections on variety 
meats, which are often neglected, and on baking (though 
it’s a shame she chickens out on cakes). And it’s extra nice 
the way she watches out for your budget. 
[Reviewed by Ellen Hershey. 
Suggested by lots and lots of people.] 
Let’s Cook It Right 
Adelle Davis 
1947, 1970; 576pp. 
$1 .65 postpaid 
from: 
New American Library, Inc. 
P.O. Box 2310 
Grand Central Station 
New York, New York 10017 
or $1.50 postpaid 
from WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The picture would be less grim were there truth in the frequently 
made statement that we are the best-fed nation in the world... 
We have perhaps the greatest quantity of food, but quality 
has been lost. The growth of produce raised on our exhausted 
soils must be forced with heavy applications of chemical fertilizers. 
Such foods contain smaller amounts of proteins, vitamins, and 
minerals than does produce grown on fertile soils. Almost every 
fresh food in our markets shows signs of plant deficiencies and 
diseases: uneven ripening, split stalks, rust, spotting, quick 
spoilage, and an appalling lack of flavor. Plants raised on sick 
soils quickly become infected with insects; two to three billion 
pounds of poison sprays and their solvents—many of them already 
proved to be carcinogenic to animals—are dusted or sprayed 
annually over our foods. Soils sprayed only once have been found 
to be still contaminated fifteen years later. 
. 
. ln countries where 
soils are continuously rebuilt, no insecticides used, and no food 
additives allowed, the cancer rate, already much lower than ours, 
is said to be decreasing. 
WHEAT-GERM MUFFINS 
Sift into mixing bowl: 
i cup sifted whole-wheat-pas- 
3 teaspoons double-acting bak- 
try flour 
ing powder 
1 teaspoon salt 
% cup powdered milk 
Add and stir only enough to moisten: 
% cup honey or dark mo- 
lasses 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 
1% cup raisins (optional) 
1 cup wheat germ 
1 cup sweet or sour milk, but- 
termilk, or yogurt 
2 eggs 
Fill paper baking cups or well-greased muffin tins two-thirds 
full. Bake at 400° F. for 15 to 20 minutes, or until brown. 
Makes a dozen large muffins. 
Parsnips are often disliked largely because of the abomi- 
nable method of cooking them in water, which they soak 
up like a sponge. They are most delicious if not touched 
with water after they are thoroughly washed. Even when 
they are steamed, sugar quickly dissolves out; if overcooked 
only a few minutes, the pulp becomes waterlogged and 
mushy. Parsnips cook quickly; hence recipes which advise 
cooking them twice should be avoided. Since the sugar in 
parsnips burns easily, the heat should be kept low after 
they have been heated through. 
LIVER WITH APPLES 
Mix together well: 
3 chopped unpeeled cooking 
% teaspoon salt 
apples 
freshly ground black pepper- 
1 chopped large onion 
corns 
Place in oiled baking dish: 
1 pound sliced baby beef, pork, or veal liver 
Cover liver slices with apple-onion mixture; top with: 
4 slices bacon cut in half 
generous sprinkling paprika 
Add: 
¥% cup hot water 
Cook in moderate oven at 350° F. for 20 minutes. 
4 
