* 
The Camera 
: 
The Camera 
The Camera 
editors of Time-Life Books 
1970; 236pp. 
$9.95 postpaid 
from: 
Morgan and Morgan 
400 Walsh Avenue 
Hastings-on-Hudson, New York 10706 
Standard Meters 
There are two basic kinds of light meters: 
reflected-light meters that measure the light that 
reflects from an object and incident meters that 
gauge the light that falls on it. 
Recently ! enjoyed an airplane magazine in which all the 
articles were illustrated by the authors. [t was so damn good. 
The pictures weren’t glamorous eye candy; they were densely 
informative, and frank, and they were related thoroughly 
to the articles. Photography, 
photography, is best in the hands of skilled ama teurs. 
Better than words photography 
is a reality medium. 
No specialist elite should monopolize that kind of power. 
This book— the first in a series from Time-Life—covers both 
the rudiments of use and the history of cameras. It has 
some sensational pictures (and price to match) What | like 
best is its detailed excellent “Camera Buyer’s Guide”. 
/ think it is the beginners camera book I’ve been looking for 
ever since we started the CATALOG. 
—SB 
* 
East Street Gallery 
The East Street Gallery, a cooperative community located 
in Grinnell, lowa. Photography, publishing and the 
making of photographic equipment provide the economic 
base of the community. 
They put out an extremely honest and thorough as can be 
booklet... it contains the resu/ts of their tests, and 
organizes the scattered information relating to the pro- 
cessing and storing of pictures for maximum permanance.. 
. 
an 
issue neglected by too many photographers who other 
otherwise care about that they are doing. 
They also describe in detail their high cost, but very high 
quality and efficient film and print washers and timing 
device... 
[Suggested & Reviewed by Will Endres] 
Procedures for Processing ond Storing 
Black and White Photographs 
For Moximum Possible Permanence 
Procedures for Processing and Storing 
Black and White Photographs for 
Maximum Possible Permanence. 
$.50 postpaid 
from: 
East Street Gallery 
1408 East Street, 
Grinnell, lowa 50112 
including professional 
Polaroid Land Cameras 
The quickest and easiest way to get finished 
pictures is with the Polaroid Land camera, 
which uses a photographic process that 
bypasses the darkroom to produce prints 
directly—color pictures in a minute, black and 
white pictures in 10 or 15 seconds. Polaroid 
Land cameras are designed for Polaroid Land 
tilm and take no other. The ones listed here all 
have “electronic eye” exposure control linked 
to an electronic shutter and make 3% x 4% 
inch pictures in color or black and white (the 
less expensive “Swinger” models make black 
and white pictures only). Polaroid Land film can 
also be used in other cameras that can be 
titted with special Polaroid Land backs. 
The more expensive the model the better its 
lens and the greater its array of features— 
a coupled rangefinder, a timer that signals 
when the picture is ready, a time exposure 
device, electronic flash (descriptions right). 
Light anc Film 
* 
Light and Film 
second volume just came through. 
looks as good as the first. 
Light and Film 
editors of Time-Life Books 
1970; 228pp. 
$9.95 postpaid 
from: 
Morgan & Morgan 
400 Walsh Avenue 
Hastings-on-Hudson, New York 10706 
Making photographic films and prints for “maximum possible 
permanence”, or archival processing as this procedure is often 
called, involves steps with which most photographers and lab men 
are not currently familiar. Very little has been written on the 
subject in the mass circulation photographic media, and museums 
and galleries have only recently shown much concern about 
photographic permanence. Most photographers, however, are 
familiar with the results of improper processing and storage of 
photographs. Old photo albums are usually excellent case studies 
of photographic fading, staining, and other forms of degradation. 
Nearly all the negative filing devices now on the market are very 
destructive to silver based film emulsions. This is especially true 
of the common “‘kraft paper’’ and glassine sleeves. These negative 
containers contain excessive amounts of sulfur and other harmful 
chemicals. Also, many of these containers contain glue in the 
seams which over a period of time may cause severe damage to 
negatives. |t may currently be assumed that no paper or glassine 
container is safe for long-term storage of negatives or prints. 
Clear acetate sleeves are generally safe, though they may cause 
a strange type of ‘’ferrotyping” on emulsions if excessive moisture 
is present. Probably the only satisfactory negative container 
currently on the market is that made by Print File, Inc., Box 
100, Schenectady, New York 12304. These containers are made in 
various formats out of clear polyethylene and have the added 
advantage that you can contact print through them without 
removing the negatives from the sleeves. These are not yet 
available in most camera stores, so you should write the 
company for samples and a price sheet. Polyethylene bags are 
generally excellent to store prints and films in—many sizes are 
available from most grocery stores. 
