ferent translater, 
er edi tion. 
Y rartletaa by D.C. Lau 
8; 192 pp. 
— 
° 
Ho E 
EARTH CATALOG 
= & 
r keep to the role of the female 
dbe 
a ravine to the pepae. 
‘ 
e constant virtue will not be wanting 
a ou will return to the infinite. 
kes the empire and wishes to do anything 
ll have no respite. The empire is a 
of. 
; 
y 
vite b 
e, ae the place touching 
t cross-legged on a folded blanket spread on 
n 
xtraordinary and so pleasing that 
‘attention wa 
was forcibly drawn towards it. The moment my 
_ attention was thus unexpectedly withdrawn from the point on 
which it was focused, the sensation ceased. Thinking it to be a 
trick played by my imagination to relax the tension, | dismissed 
the matter from my mind and brought my attention back to the 
point from which it had wandered. Again | fixed it on the lotus, 
and as the image grew clear and distinct at the top of my head, 
again the sensation occurred. This time | tried to maintai@ the fixity 
of my attention and succeeded for a few seconds, but the sensation 
extending upwards grew so intense and was so extraordinary, 
as compared to anything | had experienced before, that in spite 
of myself my mind went towards it, and at that very moment it 
again disappeared. | was now convinced that something unusual 
had happened for which my daily practice of concentration was 
probably responsible. . . 
Entirely unprepared for such a development, | was completely 
taken by surprise; but regaining self-control instantaneously, | 
remained sitting in the same posture, keeping my mind on the 
point of concentration. The illumination grew brighter and brighter, 
the roaring louder, | experienced a rocking sensation and then felt 
myself slipping out of my body, entirely enveloped in a halo of light. 
It is impossible to describe the experience accurately. | felt the 
point of consciousness that was myself growing wider, | felt 
the point of consciousness that was myself growing wider 
surrounded by waves of light. It grew wider and wider, spreading 
outward while the body, normally the immediate object of its 
perception, appeared to have receded into the distance until | 
became entirely unconscious of it. | was now all consciousness, 
without any outline, without any idea of a corporeal appendage, 
without any feeling or sensation coming from the senses, immersed 
in a sea of light simultaneously conscious and aware of every point, 
spread out, as it were, in all directions without any barrier or 
material obstruction. | was no longer myself, or to be more accurate, 
no longer as | knew myself to be, a small point of awareness confined 
in a body, but instead was a vast circle of consciousness in which 
the body was but a point, bathed in light and in a state of exaltation 
and happiness impossible to describe. 
After some time, the duration of which | could not judge, the 
circle began to narrow down; | felt myself contracting, becoming 
smaller and smaller, until | again became dimly conscious of the 
outline of my body, then more clearly; and as! slipped back to 
my old condition, | became suddenly aware of the noises in the 
There is a thing confusedly formed, 
Born before heaven and earth. 
- 
Silent and void 
It stands alone and does not change, 
Goes round and does not weary. 
It is capable of being the mother of the world. 
I know not its name 
So I style it ‘the way’. 
I give it the makeshift name of ‘the great’. 
Being great, it is further described as receding, 
Receding, it is described as far away, 
Being far away, it is described as turning back. 
Hence the way is great; heaven is great; earth is 
great; and the king is also great. Within the realm 
there are four things that are great, and the king 
counts as one. 
Man models himself on earth, 
Earth on heaven, 
Heaven on the way, 
And the way on that which is naturally so. 
The world had a beginning 
And this beginning could! be the mother of the 
world. 
When you know the mother 
Go on to know the child. 
After you have known the child 
Go back to holding fast to the mother, 
And to the end of your days you will not meet with 
danger. 
Block the openings, 
Shut the doors, 
And all your life you will not run dry. 
Unblock the openings, 
Add to your troubles, 
And to the end of your days you will be beyond 
salvation. 
To see the small is called discernment; 
To hold fast to the submissive is called strength. 
Use the light 
But give up the discernment. 
Bring not misfortune upon yourself. 
This is known as following the constant.* 
street, felt again my arms and legs and head, and once more became _ 
é 
my narrow self in touch with body and surroundings. When! opened 
_my eyes and looked about, | felt a little dazed and bewildered, 
as if coming back from a strange land completely foreign to me. The 
sun had risen and was shining full on my face, warm and soothing. 
| tried to lift my hands, which always rested in my lap, one upon the 
other, during meditation. My arms felt limp and lifeless. With an 
effort | raised them up and stretched them to enable the blood 
to flow freely. Then | tried to free my legs from the posture in 
which | was sitting and to place them in a more comfortable position 
but could not. They were heavy and stiff. With the help of my 
hands | freed them and stretched them out, then put my back 
against the wall, reclining in a position of ease and comfort. 
Under the action of a stronger current than that for which it was 
designed, any man-made mechanism, even a hundredth part as 
sensitive and intricate as the human frame is, would be wrecked or 
damaged immediately, but because of certain inherent qualities, 
developed by the human organism as a meams of evolution, the 
sudden release of the serpent power, provided the blood is healthy 
and the organs sound, is not attended by fatal results in favourable 
cases because of safety devices already provided by nature to meet 
a contingency of this kind in individuals ready for the experience. 
Even in such cases it is essential that the energy be benignly 
disposed and that the subject take the necessary precautions to 
maintain the strength of the body and the balance of the mind 
during the subsequent period of inexpressibly severe trial. How 
far | was endowed with a constitution suited for the great ordeal 
| cannot say, but being an utter stranger to the science, taken 
unawares without the requisite preliminary course of physical and 
mental discipline, and a prey to adversity, | was buffeted"unceasingly 
for many years partly because of my ignorance and lack of 
sufficient strength and partly because of the extreme suddenness 
and rapidity of the extraordinary development. 
1 was destined to witness my own transformation, not comparable 
in any way to the great transfigurations in the past, nor similar 
in point of results to the marvelous achievements of genius; but 
though simple in nature and ordinary in effect, a transformation 
nevertheless, attended all along by great physical and mental 
suffering. But what | witnessed and still witness within myself is 
so contrary to many accepted notions of science, at variance with 
many time-honoured dogmas of faith, and so antagonistic to 
many of the universally followed dictums of civilization that when 
what | have experienced is proved empirically there must occur 
a far-reaching, peicnabete ah 8 change in every sphere of human activity 
and conduct. 
When the people lack a proper sense of awe, then 
some awful visitation will descend upon them. 
Do not constrict their living space; do not* press 
down on their means of livelihood. It is because you 
- 
do not press down on them that they will not weary 
of the burden. 
Hence the sage knows himself but does not display 
himself, loves himself but does not exalt himself. 
Therefore he discards the one and takes the other. 
The whole world says that my way is vast and 
resembles nothing. It is because it is vast that it 
resembles nothing. Ifit resembled anything, it would, 
long before now, have become small. 
I have three treasures 
Which I hold and cherish. 
The first is known as compassion, 
The second is known as frugality, 
The third is known as not daring to take the lead in 
the empire; 
Being compassionate 
one 
could 
afford 
to be 
courageous; 
Being frugal one could afford to extend one’s terri- 
tory, 
Not daring to take the lead in the empire one could 
afford to be lord over the vessels. 
Now, to forsake compassion for courage, to forsake 
frugality for expansion, to forsake the rear for the 
lead, is sure to end in death. 
t 
Through compassion, one will triumph in attack and 
be impregnable in defence. What heaven succours it 
protects with the gift of compassion. 
The reason why the River and the Sea are able to be 
; 
king of the hundred valleys is that they excel in 
taking the lower position. Hence they are able to be 
king of the hundred valleys. 
Therefore, desiring to rule over the people, 
One must in one’s words humble oneself before 
et 
them; 
he 
And, desiring to lead the people, 
One must, in one’s person, follow behind them. 
