5 
r 
a 
‘ 
~ Moor and Mountain 
This is an excellent camping equipment store, with high 
prices but just about the best quality you can get. My 
brother and | have dragged our icelandic sleeping bags 
_ through just about everything and they’re still beautiful. 
Some of their books are really good too. Just about the 
time | started getting kinda worried about all the pre- 
servatives etc. in food | discovered one of their books 
on wild foods and found an astonishing amount of them 
grew right in my back yard. Their mocassins and hiking 
boots are sturdy, long-lasting and come in a good range 
of style and price. 
[Suggested and Reviewed by Lyn Bemis] 
Catalog 
free 
from: 
Moor and Mountain 
Main Street 
Concord, Massachusetts 01742 
BRAIDED NYLON TENT & UTILITY CORD 
— The best coreless 
braided nylon to eliminate kinking and reduce stretching; made by 
Samson Cordage. No 3% — 7/64” dia., 300 Ib. test; No. 44% — 9/64” 
dia., 425 Ib. test; No. 5 — 5/32” dia., 600 lb test. 
Cat. No. 136 No. 34—50 ft. hank 
Wt.: 
.16 lbs 
$1.25 
any length — per running foot 
$ 
.025 
Cat. No. 137 No. 4%—50 ft. hank 
Wt.: 
.33lbs 
$ 1.50 
any length — per running foot 
$ 
.03 
Cat. No. 138 No. 5—50 ft. hank 
Wt: 
.41ibs 
$ 1.75 
any length — per running foot 
$ 
.035 
<7 
CRUISER SNOWSHOE HARNESS -— Similar to the sandal harness, 
but with an extra strap which goes over the instep of the shoe or boot 
to hold the heel strap in place. Not as flexible as the Sandal Harness, 
but good for heavier boots. 
: 
- 
Cat. No. 760 
Wt.: 
.50 Ibs. 
* 
Mountain Safety Research Newsletter 
When you are in the outlaw area of the mountains—on 
rock and snow—you want tools that will break after you 
do. Mountain Safety Research, Inc. is an organization 
that tests climbing gear and where it finds a need, designs 
and manufactures new equipment. It was founded by 
inventor-manufacturer-climber Larry Penberthy when he 
realized that much too of the gear on the market was 
shoddy. uf 
tis the closest thing to a testing service for 
mountain equipment that exists. 
Working through existing channels in Seattle mountain 
climbing circles produced little support and a good deal of 
resistance so Penberthy started his own organization. 
A tany rate, Moun tain Safety Research has turned up some 
disturbing things: carabiners and ropes that broke before 
their rated strengths, pitans made of metal with the grain 
running the wrong way, and ice axes of insufficient strength. 
For lack of another outlet, Mountain Safety Research retails 
its own design of pack and frame, process-your-own nylon 
ropes at below retail costs, ice axe shaft reinforcements kits, 
and other items. 
[Suggested and Reviewed by David Sucher] 
Newsletter and Catalog 
free 
from: 
Mountain Safety Research, Inc. 
631 South 96th Street 
Seattle, Washington 98108 
MSR BODY HARNESSES. 
Manual of Ski Mountaineering 
/f you want the wilderness to yourself, go where it’s 
high when it’s cold. This book is a fine compendium 
of the technical knowledge you will need to make It. 
—SB 
Manual of Ski Mountaineering 
David Brower, editor 
1962; 1969; 232 pp. 
$4.75 postpaid 
from: 
Sierra Club 
Mills Tower 
San Francisco, California 90013 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Two-step —One of the most useful maneuvers for attainment of 
speed on the level or on slight downhill gradients is the two-step, 
which uses the gliding ability of skis. If the two-step is to be 
used for long, it must be deliberate and rhythmic, slow enough to 
let the skier relax during the glide between thrusts. 
Take a short step for propulsion, lean well forward from the waist, 
placing the poles well ahead, and lunge into a glide on the opposite 
ski by shifting the propelling thrust smoothly from the driving ski 
to a strong followthrough with the poles. Slowly bring the driving 
ski alongside the gliding ski in preparation for the next short step. 
Occasionally two consecutive short steps are taken to change the 
glide from one ski to another (this constitutes the three-step), and 
to tire out a new set of muscles. 
* 
e 
Lightning and the mountain.—The urge to know more concerning 
the effects of lightning becomes stronger when one Is on a peak 
with the static charge beginning to make its power felt. When 
every projection in the vicinity, and finally the climber himself, 
begins to spark and the air is filled with ominous hissing, the 
desire to be in camp becomes overwhelming. Since this desire 
cannot always be satisfied, it is well to know what to do at this 
time. 
The reasons behind the classical warning to be off the summit and 
ridges in a lightning storm can be seen when the mechanics of the 
lightning discharge are studied. 
4 
MSR AUTO-BELAYER 
Leading 
Body Harness 5 
Carabiner 
oe 
Auto-Belayer 
— f 
SSCaajupmreee 
Screw 
Friction portion 
— 
of climbing rope, 
carried in 
~ 
pocket 
In the spring of 1968, |, your editor, enrolled in the intermediate- 
climbing course of The Mountaineers, Seattle after having climbed 
— 
Northwest mountains for 33 years without mishap. The particular 
stimulus for taking the course was an accident to a 13-year-old 
girl who was a member of the party | was leading. She slid on an 
icy slope into a deep snow socket, hitting her head on a tree. She 
was knocked unconscious, head bleeding, and her face went into 
spasm. Dr. Otto Trott’s lecture on head and spinal injuries was 
- fresh in my mind, and | really had a sinking feeling, thinking that 
her spinal cord had been damaged. We carried out a good rescue, 
and were fortunate that she had no permanent injury. But | was 
scared, since | realized that | had made several leadership errors. 
Hence, | took the course, renewed my First Aid cards, and started 
thinking how to become a better mountaineer and leader. 
Being an engineer and professional inventor, | kept an investigative” 
mind in the course and was soon asked by the chairman to try to 
learn why several 3/8’ Goldline (twisted nylon) ropes had broken — 
a few years earlier in crevasse and snow practice. But when | started 
started testing, the first thing that broke was a carabiner, with a 
fall of the 200 Ib. dummy of only 30 inches. On the next drop 
of the same distance, the rope broke. Consternation! What goes 
on here? 
Camping and Woodcraft 
How could anything written in 1916 still be so useful? One, 
it is a masterwork. Tow, in Kephart’s day when you went 
camping you really disappeared, so there’s a valid nostalgia 
factor. But the main thing is, the book survives on its 
wealth of specific practical lore. Game: find the information 
that is outdated, sort it from the information that is 
correct and available nowhere else. 
| 
Roraxe Kuphart 
Two votumes ik ose... complete hardheok far 
: 
watatios casizers and &: 
5 
C I apin 
and Woodcraft 
Horace 
Kephart 
{ 
1917, 1921, 1967; 479pp. 
$6.95 Aoutpale 
from: 
- 
The Macmillan Company 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, Burlington County 
New Jersey 08075 
F 
ca 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Fig. 36.— Field 
Range (Packed) 
Fig. 35.— Field Range 
Fig, 113 — Latrine 
