* 
Light on Yoga 
/f you are into it already, and want probably the most 
complete Hatha Yoga book, get this book. It has over 
600 pictures, 200 asanas (postures) and a warm guru-like 
introduction to get you straight. 
[Reviewed by Merce] 
LIGHT ON 
B.K.S. IYENGAR 
See on Yoga 
B.K.S. lyengar 
witha foreword by 
1965, 70; 342 pp. 
YEHUD! MENUHIN 
$9.95 postpaid 
from: 
Schocken Books, Inc. 
67 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Yoga is the method by which the restless mind is calmed and the 
energy directed into constructive channels. As a mighty river 
which when properly harnessed by dams and canals, creates a vast 
reservoir of water, prevents famine and provides abundant power 
for industry; so also the mind, when controlled provides a 
reservoir Of peace and generates abundant energy for human uplift. 
To make life healthy, happy and peaceful, it is essential to study 
regularly divine literature in a pure place. This study of the sacred 
books of the world will enable the sadhaka to concentrate upon and 
to solve the difficult problems of life when they arise. [t will put 
an end to ignorance and bring knowledge. Ignorance has no beginning, 
but it has an end. There is a beginning but no end to knowledge. 
Once the sadhaka has experienced the fulness of creation or of the 
Creator, his thirst (trsna) for objects of sense vanishes and he looks 
at them ever after with dispassion (vairagya). He experiences no 
disquiet in heat or cold, in pain or pleasure, in honour or dishonour 
and in virtue or vice. He treats the two imposters—triumph and 
disaster—with equanimity. He has emancipated himself from these 
Pairs of opposites. He has passed beyond the pull of the gunas and 
has become a gunatita (one who has transcended the gunas). 
He is then free from birth and death, from pain and sorrow and 
becomes immortal. He has no self identity as he lives experiencing 
the fulness of the Universal Soul. Such a man, scorning nothing, 
leads all things to the path of perfection. 
27. When one has mastered an asana, it comes with effortless 
@ase and causes no discomfort. The bodily movements become 
graceful. While performing asanas, the student's body assumes 
numerous forms of life found in creation—from the lowliest insect 
to the most perfect sage—and he learns that in all these there 
breathes the same Universal Spirit—the Spirit of God. He looks 
within himself while practising and feels the presence of God in 
different asanas which he does with a sense of surrender unto the 
feet of the Lord. 
* 
The Yoga System of Health 
and Relief from Tension 
If you do yoga every day, you'll feel better. An uncluttered 
hour and Yogi Vithaldas’ funky book will get you off... 
it 
has large print, adequate pictures, and makes you want to get 
out on the floor with it. A good book to begin with. 
[Reviewed by Merce] 
THE YOGA SYSTEM OF HEALTH 
AND RELIEF FROM TENSION 
The Yoga System of Health 
and Relief from Tension 
Yogi Vithaldas 
1957; 120 pp. 
$1 .00 postpaid 
from: 
Outiet Book Company 
419 Park Avenue South 
New York, New York 10016 
When concentrating on an object it is best to begin slowly and 
concentrate for thirty seconds intensely rather than three minutes 
in a half-controlled, disconnected fashion. Choose any object for the 
mind to fasten on, and make it a pleasant one—say a half-opened 
rose. Place it in front of you in a little vase on a level with your 
eyes, and think of nothing but its beauty, the soft imperceptible 
grading of the colours, the stalk, the thorns, and the leaf. 
Keep your mind on that rose until you could tell anyone every 
feature of the blossom, and eventually, even with your eyes closed, 
that rose will be so firmly imprinted on your mind that it will be 
as vivid for you as if you were still looking at it. 
Regard the exercise as a kind of game, and have a shot at it at odd 
times of the day when you are waiting for a bus or for a meal. 
Do not waste that time by idle dreaming, but consciously direct 
your mind to some object, and, shortly, 
an admirable technique 
of mind-control will be established. 
Place an acorn before you and gaze steadily at it, fixing it firmly 
in your mind. Know with certainty its attributes, as with the rose—its 
shape, colour, and any markings you can discern. Then imagine 
the acorn in the ground and a root shooting from its burst seed, and 
the first green leaf, and carry on the process to the complete tree. 
Leave nothing out, hurry nothing, let nothing interfere with 
you until in your mind the acorn has become a great tree. 
Meditation has a positive and negative pole, or, in other words, two 
extremes in its practice which must be avoided. A person who erring 
on the positive side, avoids the great middle path, develops an 
assertive inner nature, and takes pride in a false superiority of 
power. 
: 
The student who sees no difference in receptivity and surrender 
of the will meditates in a negative manner, laying himself open to 
every passing force, desirable or not, instead of practising disciplined 
reception. 
* 
Big Rock Candy Mountain 
its incest to review a brother. 
here is the song: 
~jd 
The Big Rock Candy Mountain 
One evening as the sun went down and the jungle fires 
were Eurning down 
Down the track came a hobo hiking. He said “Boys I’m 
not turning; 
I'm heading for a land that’s a far away beside that crystal 
fountain. 
I'll see you all this coming fall in the Big Rock Candy Mountains. 
In the Big Rock Candy Mountains, it’s a land that’s fair and bright, 
The hand-outs grow on bushes and you sleep out ev ry night; 
The boxcars are all empty and the sun shines ev'ry day. 
I’m bound to go where there ain’t no snow where the sleet 
don’t fall and the wind don’t blow, 
In the Big Rock Candy Mountain. 
(Chorus) 
Oh, the buzzing of the bees in the cigarette trees, 
By the soda water fountain, by the lemonade springs where 
the bluebird sings, 
In the Big Rock Candy Mountain. 
In the Big Rock Candy Mountains you never change your socks, 
Little streams of alkyhol comes trickling down the rocks, 
Oh the shacks all have to tip their hats and the railroad bulls 
are blind 
There’s a lake of stew, and gingerale too 
And you can paddle all around it in a big Canoe 
In the Big Rock Candy Mountain. (Chorus) 
In the Big Rock Candy Mountains the cops have wooden legs, 
The bulldogs all have rubber teeth and the hens lay soft- 
boiled eggs. 
The Boxcars are all empty and the sun shines every day. 
I'm bound to go where there ain’t no snow 
Where the sleet don’t fall and the wind don’t blow 
In the Big Rock Candy Mountain. (Chorus) 
126 
0 
@ = @-—— =>: @ <= O <>: @-a>- @ 
om: @-a=: @a=- @ ==: @ <=: @ =>: @ =O == 
The BIG ROCK CANDY MOUNTAIN will promote products 
| 
we think aid in personal education, but the Catalog is under no 1 
obligation to the producers of those products. Publishers, 
manufacturers, and even the little guy can’t buy space in the 
Catalog. 
If the item is good, we'll find it or someone will tell 
us about it. We do, however, gladly accept review and sample 
- 
items. 
The staff and readers of the BIG ROCK CANDY MOUNTAIN 
determine its content. We have fantasies of what the Catalog 
looks like and how it will grow, but feedback is necessary to 
feed those fantasies, and at the same time keep our feet on the 
ground. Some of us on the staff have been teachers and some 
of us have not. A couple of us have taught in free schools and 
some in public schools. None of us at the present time are 
teaching and we have no kids on the staff. BIG ROCK is de- 
pendent on readers of the Catalog and users of the materials 
for reviews and suggestions on items listed and for new input 
on items to list. 
‘ 
We are a vehicle for communication among people concerned 
with education, both personal.and public. Materials, books 
and ideas have no inherent power by themselves. People, using, 
experiencing and learning with these aids, give them meaning. 
Techniques, work-in-progress, classroom and personal applica- 
tions and evaluations which you or we want to communicate 
to others appear in the four smaller informal Catalogs. 
Dace pee pete ga ices dora 
a ee ose es 
0 — 
OO 
OO 
8 
a 
9G 
yO 
=: 
@ = 
@ = 
@ 
am: 
@ 
ee: 
ee 
=e 
Big Rock Candy 
Mountain 
In the Big Rock Candy Mountaiz: the jails are made of tin, 
two big issues and 
three or four 
You can slip right out again as soon as they put you in. 
miiiel | 
tpeiter Pers a 
There ain’t no short-handled shov=!s, no axes, saws or picks. 
$8.00 
/yr 
I’m bound to stay where you sieey 
all day 
big issues $4.00 
Where they hung the jerk that invented work 
small issues $1.00 
In the Big Rock Candy Mountain. (Chorus) 
from: 
Big Rock Candy Mountain 
Portola Institute, Inc. 
1115 Merrill Street 
Menlo Park, California 94025 
