her, as | have said, is to angle at large in the realm of 
be always responsive to what might be. There is 
nla 1 out in advance. If it goes as | think it should, there 
ng what will happen next. It is when my students begin 
ond what | expect, surprising and informing me, that! 
~ 
work is succeeding. 
ly ev rything | attempt on one assumption: that every 
2x 
ence is in some way different from anybody else's. 
‘ybody has something to tell me that | would be 
to know. The student's task is to find out what it is and 
fe 
[Wendell Berry] 
ime and space in immeasurable senses. It is an 
an delight, and if people have forgotten that, it 
jue to the fact that this incredible agency has been 
yy 
impositions of purpose, and necessary meaning, and 
of didactic insistence. As if the only point in learning 
™m 
were to get from A to B . 
. 
. Poets were once called 
d the word poetry comes from a root meaning “to 
E ut what to make—despite all insistences to the contrary— 
able as language and human condition can make manifest. 
missive to want to return some of that possibility 
ing and learning. 
[Robert Creeley] 
e 
e importance of authorial purpose and reading 
nce 
ertain kinds of writing. Together we staggered through 
ling and then patiently defined all the words which the class 
w. 
After reading the passage once again, the class 
understand what was being said. Skip suggested rather 
saw even more. Half the class was asleep or studying 
y. 
“Why is everybody so bored, Gwen?” “Because this 
to 
put to asleep.’’ She had seen the negative effect of 
s meaningless to specific audiences. 
eryone up and in a few minutes had them all eagerly 
he importance of considering the writer’s purpose and 
e nce, how scientists and “people who go to Harvard” talk 
Fy 
ow choice of words can affect the ease of reading 
ig. If language could put certain people to sleep, 
_ 
sed to attract their attention, persuade them, and 
opinions. 
; 
[John Hawkes] 
roup experience is less important in a class small 
ach individual member of it to receive—whether from 
low student—an epiphany at some time or other; but 
s held once a week for only one semester and there 
in fifteen people enrolled in it, there is a mathematical 
this kind of individual epiphany will occur only 
ehow, instead, | think the teacher must 
it 
among the students, enough passion and drama 
ve 
epiphany; and this not for its own sake (for 
iate 
the depth or lasting value of such collective 
much as for the sake of its function as gateway, 
vels of feeling, to a greater openness after passing 
the sense of comradeship that can develop even 
arge number of people who have been together 
is or revelation. 
oe 
if 
[Denise Levertov] 
* 
The RSVP Cycles 
The angels play on their horns all day 
The whole earth in progression seems to pass by 
But does anyone hear the music they play 
Does anyone even try 
Theres an invisible world haunting us in the myths and 
whisperings of the past, in the scored rock faces of our 
mountains and in our dreams. The invisible Within of our 
planet we call ecology. We should call it You, Thou or 
Babe. Science tries to describe the eco-process; 
Art tries 
to embody the process. Science and art are body and soul 
of the planetary Thou. 
Men before our time have explored the invisible world of 
change, making it our scorching burden of consciousness. 
We know the Revolution even as we taste the Apocalypse. 
What we need now are visions for human kind which 
acknowledge You by imitating Visions which structure 
creativity into society instead of structuring society 
creatively. Visions which energize man-with-nature 
instead of attempting to control nature as well as man. 
Our destruction of the eco-system only mirrors our murder 
of the creative evolutionary process within each particular 
man in modern society. 
All this from the notebooks of ar architect involved in 
ecological design, whose hope-oriented essays are really 
inspiring. Halprin agrees that we are as gods and he says we 
should get on with our rightful business of listening to the 
angels songs. 
—zane 
The relationship of the Tarot cards to the / 
Ching hexagrams 
is remarkable; both deal with universal ideas and problems facing 
us all in life situations. Both connect us with the subconscious 
activities of the human mind and with natural processes. Both 
deal with archetypal examples of what Jung has called the “collective 
unconscious.” |n both the divination process itself requires a 
letting go of the intellect—an acknowledgement of the rhythmic and 
unconscious forces at work in the universe. If we can give way 
to these forces and think of ourselves as part of the universal 
processes of living, of time in space, then we can release 
ourselves from preconceptions and hangups which prevent and 
block creativity. One of the important functions of scores is to make 
possible and accepted nonrational means of ‘‘getting at’’ problems. 
Both the Tarot cards and the J Ching have been used by musicians 
such as Pauline Olivieros and Morton Subotnik as compositional 
devices. Pauline Olivieros has said ‘| mix chance and choice somewhat 
scandalously” (Notations, John Cage). 
The RSVP Cycles 
Soot a Gey 
Creative Processes 
in the 
Human Environment 
Lawrence Halprin 
The RSVP Cycles: Creative Process 
in the Human Environment 
Lawrence Halprin 
1969; 207 pp. 
$1 5.00 postpaid 
from: 
George Braziller, Inc. 
One Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
OVERCON. 
VENT) 
ANXIOUS 
SUILTY, on 
SELF-SFFACING 
and 
¥ 
& 
me 
co 
% 
ACTION: S, 
‘CONDEMN SELF 
Ss 
Chart from early work of Timothy Leary 
which reveals the causal-resultant 
interrelation between people based on 
their own impact on others. 
One of the gravest dangers that we experience is the danger of 
becoming goal-oriented. \t is a tendency that crops up on every 
hand and in every field of endeavor. It is a trap which goes like this: 
things are going poorly (in the realm of politics or religion or building 
acity or the world community or a personal relationship or whatever). 
As thinking people we must try to solve this probjem that faces us. 
Let us set ourselves a ‘‘goal’’ Upon which we can all agree (most 
goals after all are quite clearly moralistically based and incontro- 
vertibly “good ideas’). Having’set ourselves this goal we can then 
proceed posthaste to achieve it by the most direct method possible. 
Everyone can put his shoulder to the wheel, and systems engineering, 
technology, and our leader (or whatever) will get us to the agreed 
P 
jal. 
9 
7 
It doesn’t work! The results of this oversimplified approach, now 
coming into general vogue, are all around us in the chaos of our 
cities and the confusion of our politics (or other politics—fascism 
and communism are clear statements of this approach.) It generates 
tension in personal relationships by burying the real problems; 
it avoids the central issue of education, which is why today’s 
young people are dropping out; it is destroying the resources and 
physical beauty of our planet; and it avoids the basic issue. 
Score for dialogue between people. 
Code 
Decode 
