The Environmental Handbook 
The Environmental Handbook as “the bible’’ of New Con- 
servation. Paul Ehrlich, the others, as prophets predicting 
the literal end of the world. Ecology Action, the others, as 
young disciples working zealously to save it. The Survival 
Walk from Sacramento to L.A. as a modern version of the 
crusades. The public outcry against pollution as an evan- 
gelical call to cast out evil. San Jose State students actually 
burying a devil alive, in the form of a new Maverick. 
While Lynn White Jr. says: “Human ecology is deeply con- 
ditioned by beliefs about our nature and destiny——that is, 
by religion. ... The victory of Christianity over paganism 
was the greatest psychic revolution in the history of our 
culture. ... We continue today to live, as we have lived for 
about 1700 years, very largely in a context of Christian 
axioms. ... Christianity, in absolute contrast to ancient 
paganism and Asia’s religions . . 
. not only established a 
dualism of man and nature but also insisted that it is God’s 
will that man exploit nature for his proper ends. ... 
[Christians] are superior to nature, contemptuous of it, 
willing to use it for our slightest whim.” 
Conservation asking Christian America to quit being 
Christian America, America saying can’t, | need the money. 
Psychic revolution. Beginnings of religious war. Christ a 
space-age anti-Christ. Battle in the cockpit. 
Veer left, 
veer right. 66,000 miles an hour. Off course! Quick! 
Somebody grab the wheel! 
[Reviewed by Gurney Norman] 
Ecotactics 
The Sierra Club’s paperback Ecotactics was published two 
months after Friends of the Earth brought out The Envir- 
onmental Handbook. The difference shows, but not enough 
to hurt. lf The Handbook hadn’t got there first, Ecotactics 
would be a hot item indeed. /t’s not quite as punchy as The 
Handbook but it’s got a lot of good stuff in it, most of it by 
ecology writers | hadn’t heard of before, which | consider 
a virtue. { mean, I’ve heard Paul Ehrlich and Rene DuBos 
and other big guns who appear prominently in The Handbook. 
| know what they have to say. It’s encouraging to see just 
how many good young writers thé whole ecology thing is 
producing. Since both books cost only 95 cents, the serious 
ecology revolutionary by all means ought to have copies of 
each. The complement each other, sort of fill in each other’s 
holes. For example, The Handbook contains Gary Snyder's 
now famous environmental manifesto, “Four Changes”, 
while Ecotactics presents a short article adout Snyder himself 
himself, as a man, a poet and a naturalist. Both statements 
deserve wide audiences. So do both the books as wholes. 
[Reviewed by Gurney Norman] 
Ecotactics 
1970; 287 pp. 
$.95 postpaid 
from: 
Simon and Schuster, Inc. 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, New York 10020 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
* 
Not So Rich As You Think 
Once upon a time, men lived in trees high above the forest 
floor. It was a gay, carefree life—your food grew right 
in your house and when you had eaten your fill you 
tossed the garbage 
down:through the leaves. The same with 
your shit, and evel 
your body when you died. The forest 
scavengers and processes of decay speedily disposed of 
all refuse. 
f 
Man came down from the trees long, long ago and created 
for himself a less carefree way of life. But he remains the 
filthiest animal around, treating his environment as if it 
were still magically gobbling up everything he discards. 
This book documents the folly with the gross dishearten- 
ing facts. From human excrement to nuclear fallout, with 
smog, DDT and the junkyard on the way. 
—HH 
[Suggested by H.R. Hershey, Sr.] 
10. 
The Environmental Handbook 
Garrett De Bell, editor 
1970; 365 pp. 
$.95 postpaid 
from: 
Ballantine Books 
101 Fifth Avenue 
New York, New York 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The phrase, ‘’health of the environment” is not a literary con- 
vention. It has a real biological meaning, because the surface of 
the earth is truly a living organism. Without the countless and 
immensely varied forms of life that the earth harbors, our planet 
would be just another fragment of the universe with a surface as 
drab as that of the moon and an atmosphere inhospitable to man. 
We human beings exist and enjoy life only by virtue of the 
conditions created and maintained on the surface of the earth by 
the microbes, plants and animals that have converted its 
inanimate matter into a highly integrated living structure. Any 
profound disturbance in the ecological equilibrium is a threat 
to the maintenance of human life as we know it now. 
Rene DuBos 
| personally doubt that disastrous ecologic backlash can be avoided 
simply by applying to our problems more science and more tech- 
nology. Our science and technology have grown out of Christian 
attitudes toward man’s relation to nature which are almost uni- 
versally held not only by Christians and neo-Christians but also 
by those who fondly regard themselves as post-Christians. 
Despite 
Copernicus, all the cosmos rotates around our little globe. Despite 
Darwin, we are not, in our heads, part of the natural process. We 
are superior to nature, contemptuous of it, willing to use it for 
our slightest whim. 
Lynn White, Jr. 
To deal with a system of oppression and suppression, which charac- 
terizes the environmental violence in this country, the first priority 
is to deprive the polluters of their unfounded legitimacy. Too often 
they assume a conservative, patriotic posture when in reality they 
are radical destroyers of a nation’s resources and the most funda- 
mental rights of people. Their power to block or manipulate 
existing laws permits them, as perpetrators, to keep the burden 
of proof on the victims. In a country whose people have always 
valued the “open book,” corporate and government polluters 
crave secrecy and deny citizens access to the records of that which 
is harming their health and safety. 
Youth must develop an investigative approach to the problems of 
pollution. 
It is one of the most basic prerequisites. Not only 
must there be a close analysis 
of corporate statements, and period- 
icals, annual reports, patents, correspondence, court records, 
regulations, technical papers, Congressional hearings and agency 
reports and transcripts, but there must be a search for the dissenting 
company engineer, the conscience-stricken house lawyer, the 
concerned retiree or ex-employee, the knowledgeable worker 
and the fact-laden supplier of the industry or company under study. 
They are there somewhere. They must be located. 
Ralph Nader 
Though the medium may be the message, the event itself is a very 
crucial part of what's transmitted. So strive for far-out symbolic 
actions on meaningful, relevant issues that will seize the imagination 
and commitment of the press and the public. The overall rule of 
thumb is to localize the greater issues at hand in the ecology move- 
ment. Don’t just demonstrate against water pollution; pick a 
nearby polluted stream and wage a cleanup campaign. Everybody 
knows industry kills; indentify which industries. Shine a giant 
searchlight on belching smokestacks at night. Give DIS-honor 
awards to polluters. Picket. Have a mock funeral for an internal 
combustion engine. A simple idea can blossom into a great 
publicity-getter, and accomplish something in its own right. Pete 
Seeger set out last summer with songs and a sailing sloop on the 
befouled Hudson River and turned on thousands to the problem of 
water pollution. 
John Zeh 
vur environment 
“The bri 
Not So Rich as You Think 
George R. Stewart 
1968, 70; 176 pp. 
$.95 postpaid 
from: 
The New American Library 
1301 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, New-York 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
We, the civilized people of the world, have come to the end of 
an era. We have not been arboreal for a million or two years, and 
we must at last renounce the arboreal assumption that the way 
to get rid of something is to let it drop. We have run out of space. 
Micronesian “‘out-islander”’ in particular—that is, those who live 
across a hundred miles or more of sea from any neighboring islands, 
and whose contact with the rest of the world is limited to the few 
souls who arrive on the eighty foot government boat every six 
months—simply don’t think about infinity, 
or to put it more 
accurately, the idea that everything is possible. 
In order to survive out there by themselves, they've had to gain a 
pretty good feeling for pacing the breadfruit production and the 
coconut eating. In some of those places the highest crime is 
cutting down a coconut tree without communal permission. 
Jerry Mander 
Education, particularly higher education, is critically important to 
solving our ecological crisis, 
.. 
. The whole direction and purpose 
and thrust of our culture is toward greater production, greater 
exploitation. In many if not in most of our universities, there is 
little criticism of the basic assumptions and value judgments that 
underlie our current priorities. The university is quite capable of 
developing an automated machine to harvest any crop, but it is 
unable to evaluate the long-term social costs of such a development. 
Garrett De Bell 
By conventional bookkeeping methods, for example, the coal companies 
strip-mining away the hillsides of Kentucky and West Virginia show a 
handsome profit. Their ledgers, however, show only a fraction of the 
true cost of their operations. They take no account of destroyed land 
which can never bear another crop; of rivers poisoned by mud and 
seeping acid from the spoil banks; of floods which sweep over farms 
and towns downstream, because the ravaged slopes can no longer 
hold the rainfall. 
John Fischer. 
| am interested in the way that a man looks at a given landscape 
and takes possession of it in his blood and brain. For this happens, 
| am certain, in the ordinary motion of life. None of us lives apart 
from the land entirely; such an isolation is unimaginable. We have 
sooner or later to come to terms with the world around us——and | 
mean especially the physical world, not only as it is revealed to us 
immediately through our senses, but also as it is perceived more 
truly in the long turn of seasons and of years. And we must come 
to moral terms. There is no alternative, | believe, if we are to realize 
and maintain our humanity, for our humanity must consist in part 
in the ethical as well as the practical ideal of preservation. And 
particularly here and now is that true. We Americans need now 
more than ever before——and indeed more than we know——to 
imagine who and what we are with respect to the earth and sky. | 
am talking about an act of the imagination essentially, and the 
concept of an American land ethic. 
N. Scott Momaday 
The great enemy of open space is not the Federal government. 
It’s 
the local governments. There’s no local government in this country 
that is suited to turn down a new payroll or a new property tax 
base. Our country’s built on a property tax supporting local gov- 
ernment. 
Every impoverished county that has lovely open space, 
every city that wants to expand is going to permit development. 
After all, it wasn’t the local but the Federal government that got 
in and stopped the jetport. When you say there was no outpouring 
for the jetport, what you really mean is there wasn’t any sentiment 
in Florida against the jetport. 
Paul McCloskey 
Perhaps in the future, analysis of those factors which contribute to 
stress disease will induce inquiry into the values of privacy, shade, 
silence, the positive stimulus of natural materials and the presence of 
comprehensible order, indeed natural beauty. When young babies 
lack fondling and mother love, they sometimes succumb to moronity 
and death. The dramatic reversal of this pattern has followed simple 
maternal solicitude. Is the absence of nature—its trees, water, rocks 
and herbs, sun, moon, stars and changing seasons—a similar type of 
deprivation? The solicitude of nature, its essence if not its image, 
may be seen to_be vital. 
lan McHarg 
So fixed, indeed, is the tradition of water-borne sewage in our 
civilization and even in our personal feeling that the very 
imagination flinches before any other idea. Yet one should not 
forget the earth-closet, as invented, developed, and promulgated 
around 1860 by the Reverend Henry Moule, of Fordington 
Vicarage, Dorsetshire, England. Since he was thus a functioning 
officer of the Church of England, we must assume that Mr. 
Moule was at least indifferently honest and more or less in his 
right mind. According to him and to his many disciples in the 
later nineteenth century, the earth-closet was efficient, wholly 
inoffensive to have in the house, cheap, simple to work. At 
least one American company manufactured and distributed it. 
From a hopper filled with earth, the pulling of a lever or even the 
rising of the person from the seat, sifted some dry earth into the 
bowl. All odor was thus contained, and the excreta rapidly decomposed 
and mingled with the earth. They mingled indeed so well that 
the result could eventually be used again, though this petty 
economy need not be obligatory. 
But tote the efficiency in the minimal bulk of product. According 
to Mr. Moule’s published figures, one person needed only two 
pounds of earth a day. This figure, moreover, was based upon the 
necessarily crude engineering of a nineteenth-century county 
parson. What could not our modern experts have developed along 
this line? 
