I’m not competent to review this book. | can recognize 
McCulloch’s wisdom and humor. | can report his high 
standing as an Old One in the field of brain research. 1 
can assert I’ve revelled in some of his insights. But | can’t 
tell you how far he takes us toward full accountability in 
how nerve nets yield mind, except that he makes the 
question appear answerable and worth answering. 
—SB 
[Suggested by 
Milton E. Boyd] 
Embodiments of Mind 
Warren S. McCulloch 
1965,70; 402pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
The MIT Press 
50 Ames Street 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Modern evidence indicates that all our acquired ideas, or learned 
generalizations and specifications, are carried on for nearly half 
an hour by regenerative activity, of which there is beginning to 
be some electrical evidence. If this activity is interrupted during 
that time, no memory remains. From the evidence to date it 
seems that if the process had not been interrupted, and if 
one looks at the appropriate neurons half an hour later, one 
finds that there is a great rise in ribonucleic acid, and protein 
synthesis is under way. So, while we do not yet know how or 
where this building material will be distributed, we may see 
nature using the same trick as in the immune reactions. 
BOTH 
ony AQ <B ALONE 
4 
A nw 
k A + & 
x XX 
KX X 
The number of 
dots divided by 
the number of 
places is the 
logical probability 
Neuron active 
spontaneously 
1 Loop prevents 
2 Buttons excite— 
| Qutput by axon 
St eNery, 
millisecond 
This is tautology —> -} 
K+ 
xX 
* 
The Art of Memory 
Memory theater. The orderliness of architecture meets the 
vividness of drama; with these tools feats of memory may 
be performed. This unusual book traces the original memory 
techniques of the ancient Greek bards through Cicero into 
the mainstream of hermetic tradition and Raymond Lull, 
Giordano Bruno, and Robert Fludd on into the design of 
the Globe Theater. The technology of memory is neglected 
now, replaced by elaborate notation systems—“freeing” 
us perhaps too far from our knowledge. 
The Art of Memory 
Frances A. Yates 
1966; 400pp. 
$8.95 posptaid 
from: 
The University of Chicago Press 
5750 Ellis Avenue 
Chicago, Illinois 60637 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
ss 
A Dictionary of Symbols. 
the serpent bites its tail, 
the orphean egg is scrambled 
by a carnivorous mirror, 
> 
the brotherhood of the rosy cross... 
words are rarely either singular 
or uniform in meaning, 
’ 
so one either lives long enough 
to sort out the symbolism 
or uses a dictionary. 
This dictionary could be read 
from cover to cover. 
[Suggested by Sam Bercholz] 
A Dictionary of Symbols 
J.E. Cirlot 
1962; 400pp. 
$3.98 postpaid 
from 
Book Sales Inc. 
352 Park Avenue South 
New York, New York 10010 
BELLY The interior of the belly is invariably equated symbolically 
with the alchemic laboratory, or, in other words, with the place 
where transmutations are effected. Since these metamorphoses 
are entirely of a natural order, the belly-laboratory becomes, ina 
sense, the antithesis to the brain. 
<8 
RAIN 
Rain has a primary and obvious symbolism as a fertilizing 
agent, and is related to the general symbolism of life and water. 
Apart from this, but for the same reason, it signifies Purification, 
not only because of the value of water as the ‘universal substance’— 
‘ 
as the mediating agent between the non-formal or gaseous and 
the formal or solid, an aspect which is common to all symbolic 
traditions—but also because of the fact that rainwater falls 
from heaven. Hence it is also cognate with light. This explains 
why, in many mythologies, rain is regarded as a symbol of the 
‘spiritual influences’ of heaven descending upon earth. In 
alchemy, rain symbolizes condensation or albification—further 
proof that, for the alchemists, water and light were of the same 
symbolic family. 
: 
TOAD The inverse and infernal aspect of the frog-symbol; that is 
to say, the symbolic significance is the same though in a negative 
sense. Or, as the traditional language of esoteric thought puts 
it: ‘There are also certain animals whose mission it is to break up the 
astral light by a process of absorption peculiar to them. There is 
something fascinating about their gaze: they are the toad and the 
basilisk.” 
The subject of this book will be unfamiliar to most readers. Few 
people know that the Greeks, who invented many arts, invented 
an art of memory which, like their other arts, was passed on to 
Rome whence it descended in the European tradition. This art 
seeks to memorise through a technique of impressing ‘places’ 
and ‘images’ on memory. It has usually been classed as 
, 
‘Mnemotechnics’, which in modern times seems a rather unimportant 
branch of human activity. But in the ages before printing a 
trained memory was vitally important; and the manipulation: 
. 
of images in memory must always to some extent involve the 
psyche as a whole. 
. 
. Mnemosyne, said the Greeks, is the mother 
of the Muses; the history of the training of this most fundamental 
and elusive of human powers will plunge us into deep waters. 
Who is that man moving slowly in the lonely building, stopping at 
intervals with an intent face? He is a rhetoric student forming a 
set of memory loci. 
; 
e 
Images are as words by which we note the things we have to learn, 
so that as Cicero says, ‘we use places as wax and images as 
letters’. It will be as well to quote his actual words:—‘One must 
employ a large number of places which must be well-lighted, 
clearly set out in order, at moderate intervals apart, and images 
which are active, which are sharply defined, unusual, and which 
have the power of speedily encountering and penetrating the 
mind. 
e 
The memory tradition taught that everything is better remembered 
through an image, that these images should be striking and 
emotionally powerful, that they should be linked to one 
another associatively. Bruno tries to work memory systems based 
on these principles by linking them to the astrological system, 
using magically potent images, ‘semi-mathematical or magical 
places, and the associative orders of astrology. With this he mixes 
Lullist combinations and Cabalist magic! 
5b Images to be used in the 
Abbey Memory System 
From Johannes Romberch, 
Congestorium Artificiose 
Memorie, ed. of Venice, 1533 
