* 
Solar Journal 
its sure hard to put a handle on this book. 
a strange overview, maybe, 
or fluid bingo. 
richard grossinger brings a gnat’s ass 
and a cannonball 
together, 
5 
makes them fit, 
shows how they are connected, 
then takes a long skinny oecological finger 
and gently tweaks the reader’s nose... 
. 
learn from him. 
Solar Journal: Oecological Sections 
Richard Grossinger 
1970; 130pp. 
$4.50 postpaid 
from 
Black Sparrow Press 
Box 25603 
Los Angeles, California 90025 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
During the milk strike the Indiana farmers dump tons of fresh white 
milk into the earth, surprised and sucking it up, as an ancient ocean, 
as the sun itself. One farmer in Indiana fills a swimming pool with 
milk; his two daughters, bikini’d, swim in it, splash for T.V. 
cameras. There is no secret family here to maintain the farm. The 
girls will turn sour in unexplored chemical secrets even as the 
milk clabbers. They know nothing of survival, but they are pumping 
the market, as the automobile market is pumped by girls with 
very red lips sucking on men’s scrotums while they ride in high- 
priced cars. They are pumping the market but destroying food. 
The rain cells are replaced with money cells while only the 
amazed cat licks this holy water from the earth. 
Whole Systems 
beware of whole systemitis. 
its the lonliness awareness. 
imagine you are a near sighted, bucktoothed, kid, doing 
sunflower seeds, 
and somebody comes along and puts eyeglasses on you, 
holds up a mirror, 
then takes you out on a hilltop at night, 
points up at the little winks out there, 
and tells you they aren’t really little winks at all, 
but great big flashes, 
a long way away, 
then asks you if you want some more sunflower seeds. 
. 
you want to throw away the eyeglasses, but it is too late, 
you are stuck, 
youve seen it, 
you are little, 
alone, 
puny, 
except...... 
except for a few soft flannel thoughts, 
and a belief that there are others like you, 
brothers like you, 
and that a sunflower seed 
is‘a whole system too. 
So in his article on sanctity and adaption, Rappaport cites two 
essential tautologies: that every living being is connected to every 
other living being, and that the environment is so complex that we 
cannot predict the total consequences of any action. So the 
supernatural world, in which all beings, visible and invisible, are 
connected by the great spiritual thread, in which the consequences 
are never seen yet always critical, is not just similar but identical to 
the natural world. It is science which operates with an imaginary 
environment, an environment it imagines it can control, in which 
it believes its own predictions, setting limits on just how far it will 
trace a poison or follow a river. Who cares if insecticide in lowa 
pollutes the Great Lakes, who cares if the poisonous wastes from 
the potato factory in Maine pour into New Brunswick, as long as 
the crud passes political boundaries? Who cares if the 
microorganisms are poisoned, the algae and snails choked, these 
are not men’s delicacies? Who cares about the supernatural, the 
world we cannot see? Who cares what happens to the skeletons of 
the fish after the fish are eaten, when every house has a garbage 
disposal; except during a garbage strike in New York the people 
forget that there is waste and the waste goes somewhere, 
motorboats killing off everything in a lake during successive 
Memorial Days and July 4’s and Labor Days? And every living 
organism shares in the consequences, and the consequences are 
collective, only civil wars says the astronaut looking down at Earth, 
only civil wars even as the hunter downs the bear, the fish are 
caught in the Bella Coola trap. And everyone is simultaneously the 
benefactor and the victim; we are all victimized by what we are 
made out of, by, in fact, that we are made out of anything. The 
consequences never cease but pass and rebound, and this is the 
story of light in the universe, a sun whose powers flood on 
beyond Earth, beyond planets, an Earth which receives the decay of 
other stars. 
Who can speak of the difference between healing chemically and 
soothing psychologically when, drop by drop, the body is one 
continuous chemical flask? Whatever we will become, including 
new states of mind, is carried in chemical code; the lightning of our 
thoughts passes over chemical lakes, excitation over.a dormant 
solution in the Rocky Mountains, charged like the summer air: the 
planet is a single bath of linked chemicals, genes, joined by inlets 
and oceans, rivers, winds, and clouds; poison pass into solution, out 
of solution; crystals grow in DNA, the sacs of the sleeping water- 
snake. The doctor gives birth to his own specialized instruments, 
subglandular rubber pipes, suboceanic snakes; heals himself. 
i 
; 
Chuang Tzu: Basic Writings 
crystal 
fortune cookies 
Chuang Tzu: Basic Writings 
Translated by Burton Watson 
1964; 66; 148pp. 
$1 95 postpaid 
from 
Columbia University Press 
2960 Broadway 
New York, New York 10027 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Your life has a limit but knowledge has none, If you use what is 
limited to pursue what has no limit, you will be in danger. If you 
understand this and still strive for knowledge, you will be in danger 
for certain! If you do good, stay away from fame. If you do evil, 
stay away from punishments. Follow the middle; go by what is 
constant, and you can stay in one piece, keep yourself alive, look 
after your parents, and live out your years. 
Cook Ting was cutting up an ox for Lord Wen-hui. 
-At every touch 
of his hand, every heave of his shoulder, every move of his feet, 
every thrust of his knee—zip! zoop! He slithered the knife along 
with a zing, and all was in perfect rhythm, as though he were 
performing the dance of the Mulberry Grove or keeping time to 
the Ching-shou music. 
“Ah, this is marvelous!” said Lord Wen-hui. “Imagine skill reaching 
such heights! "’ 
Cook Ting laid down his knife and replied, ‘What | care about is 
the Way, which goes beyond skill. When ! first began cutting 
up oxen, all | could see was the ox itself. After three years | no 
longer saw the whole ox. And now—now | go at it by spirit and 
don’t look with my eyes. Perception and understanding have come 
to a stop and spirit moves where it wants. | go along with the 
natural makeup, strike in the big hollows, guide the knife through 
the big openings, and follow things as they are. So | never touch 
the smallest ligament or tendon, much less a main joint. 
"&\ good cook changes his knife once a year—because he cuts. A 
mediocre cook changes his knife once a month—because he 
hacks. I’ve had this knife of mine for nineteen years and I've cut 
thousands of oxen with it, and yet the blade is as good as though 
it had just come from the grindstone. There are spaces between 
the joints, and the blade of the knife has really no thickness. If 
you insert what has no thickness into such spaces, then there's 
plenty of room—more than enough for the blade to play about 
in. That's why after nineteen years the blade of my knife is still 
as good as when it first came from the grindstone. 
“However, whenever | come to a complicated place, | size up the 
difficulties, tell myself to watch out and be careful, keep my eyes 
on what I’m doing, work very slowly, and move the knife with the 
greatest subtlety, until—flop! the whole thing comes apart like a 
clod of earth crumbling to the ground. | stand there holding the 
knife and look all around me, completely satisfied and reluctant to 
move on, and then | wipe off the knife and put it away.” 
Chuang Tzu and Hui Tzu were strolling along the dam of the Hao 
River when Chuang Tzu said, ‘See how the minnows come out and 
dart around where they please! That's what fish really enjoy!” 
Hui Tzu said, ‘‘You’re not a fish—how do you know what fish 
enjoy?” 
Chuang Tzu said, ““You‘re not |, so how do you know | don’t 
know what fish enjoy?” 
Hui Tzu said, “I’m not you, so | certainly don’t know what you 
know. On the other hand, you're certainly not a fish—so 
that still proves you don’t know what fish enjoy!” 
Chuang Tzu said, ‘’Let’s go back to your original question, please. 
You asked me how | know what fish enjoy—so you already knew 
| knew it when you asked the question. | know it by standing here 
beside the Hao.” 
