Meditation in Action 
The Venerable Trungpa Rinpoche was some kind of a high 
abbot over a district of monasteries in Tibet, so you can 
expect a book of his talks to be some kind of esoteric and 
too profound for.us surface-dwellers. 
If it’s esoteric, he’s cleverly hidden that fact, and surface 
dwellers are being sucked in from all over the map. I’ve 
never seen so much good sense in so little space on the 
subject of meditation. As a book, it trends toward the 
very goal: singularity. 
—SB 
Meditation in Action 
Chogyam Trungpa 
1969; 74 pp. 
$2.25 postpaid 
from: 
Shambala Publications 
2010 Seventh Street 
Berkeley, CA 94710 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
MEDITATION IN ACTION 
Chogyam Trungpa 
The point is that whatever one is trying to learn, it is necessary to 
have first hand experience, rather than learning from books or from 
teachers or by merely conforming to an already established pattern. 
That is what he found, and in that sense Buddha was a great revolu- 
tionary in his way of thinking. He even denied the existence of 
Brahma, or God, the Creator of the world. He determined to accept 
nothing which he had not first discovered for himself. 
. 
.- He developed the creative side of revolution, which is not 
trying to get help from anyone else, but finding out for oneself. 
Buddhism is perhaps the only religion which is not based on the 
revelation of God nor on faith and devotion to God or gods of any 
kind. This does not mean that Buddha was an atheist or a heretic. 
He never argued theological or philosophical doctrines at all. He 
went straight to the heart of the matter, namely, how to see the 
Truth. He never wasted time in vain speculation. 
If we are meditating at home and we happen to live in the middle 
of the High Street, we cannot stop the traffic just because we want 
Peace and quiet. But we can stop ourselves, we can accept the 
noise. The noise also contains silence. We must put ourselves into 
it and expect nothing from outside, just as Buddha did. And we 
must accept whatever situation arises. As long as we never retreat 
from the situation, it will always present itself as avehicle and we 
will be able to make use of it. As it is said in the Scriptures, ‘“The 
Dharma is good at the beginning, the Dharma is good in the middle 
and the Dharma is good at the end.” 
In other words the Dharma 
never becomes out-of-date, since fundametally the situation is 
always the same. 
The whole point is to cultivate the acceptance of everything, so one 
should not discriminate or become involved in any kind of struggle. 
That is the basic meditation technique, and it is quite simple and 
direct. There should be no deliberate effort, no attempt to control 
and no attempt to be peaceful. This is why breathing is used. 
It is 
easy to feel the breathing, and one has no need to be self-conscious 
or to try and do anything. The breathing is simply available and 
one should just feel that. That is the reason why technique is 
important to start with. This is the primary way of starting, but 
it generally continues and develops in its own way. One sometimes 
finds oneself doing it slightly differently from when one first 
started, quite spontaneously. This is not classified as an advanced 
technique or a beginner's technique. 
It simply grows and develops 
gradually. 
Where there is arrexternal person, a higher Being, or the concept of 
something which is separate from oneself, then we tend to think 
that because there is something outside there must be something 
here as well. The external phenomenon sometimes becomes such 
an overwhelming thing and seems to have all sorts of seductive 
or aggressive qualities, so we erect a kind of defence mechanism 
against it, failing to see that that is itself a continuity of the 
external thing. We try to segregate ourselves from the external, 
and this creates a kind of gigantic bubble in us which consists of 
nothing but air and water or, in this case, fear and the reflection 
of the external thing. So this huge bubble prevents any fresh 
air from coming in, and that is “’I’’——the Ego. So in that 
sense there is the existence of Ego, but it is in fact illusory. 
Q. For meditation, would a student have to rid himself of Ego before 
he started, or would this come naturally as he is studying? 
A. This comes naturally, because you can’t start without Ego. And 
basically Ego isn’t bad. Good and bad doesn’t really exist anywhere, 
it is only a secondary thing. Ego is, in a sense, a false thing, but it 
isn’t necessarily bad. You have to start with Ego, and use Ego, and 
from there it gradually wears out, like a pair of shoes. But you have 
to use it and wear it out thoroughly, so it is not preserved. Other- 
wise, if you try to push Ego aside and start perfect, you may become 
more and more perfect in a rather one-sided way, but the same 
amount of imperfection is building up on the other side, just as 
creating intense light creates intense darkness as well. 
136 
* 
Book of the Hopi 
/f you‘re susceptible to tarot or astrology, you'll probably 
revel in this book, Its business is the esoteric lore and 
historical drama which lives and protects the Hopi Indians 
in Arizona. They were possibly the farthest out of the 
American tribes (in present times they are not as together as 
Zuni, or Taos, but they are larger and so is what they 
attempted). This is the mysticism not of change but of 
stability, of the year cycle, of one more winter of food 
obtained by the hard knowledge from uncounted prior 
generations of winters and, they say, travels from world to 
world and place to place to arrive finally at the center, 
these bleak mesas, to here sustain forever responsibility for 
the well-being of the world. Frank Waters was perhaps too 
eager to write a Bible, but | can’t blame him. It’s that kind 
of knowledge. 
So the people emerged to the Second World. Its name was Tokpa 
Dark Midnight 
. Its direction was south, its color blue, its mineral 
qochasiva, silver. Chiefs upon it were salavi, the spruce; kwahu, 
the eagle; and kolichiyaw, the skunk. 
It was a big land, and the people multiplied rapidly, spreading over 
it to all directions, even to the other side of the world. This did 
not matter, for they were so close together in spirit they could 
see and talk to each other from the center on top of the head. 
Because this door was still open, they felt close to Sotuknang 
and they sang joyful praises to the Creator, Taiowa. 
They did not have the privilege. of living with the animals, though, 
for the animals were wild and kept apart. Being separated from 
the animals, the people tended to their own affairs. They built 
homes, then villages and trails between them. They made things 
with their hands and stored food like the Ant People. Then they 
began to trade and barter with one another. 
This was when the trouble started. Everything they needed was on 
this Second World, but they began to want more. 
—SB 
BOOK 
OF THE 
OP 
Yhe Fest revelation af the Hop's losturical 
and eliginusy world-view of life 
Book of the Hopi 
Frank Waters, 
Oswald White Bear Fredericks 
1963; 423 pp. 
$1 .25 postpaid 
from: 
Ballantine Books, Inc. 
101 Fifth Avenue 
New York, New York 10003 
somsecsen 
yrabene 
rans. 
wns 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
BY FRANK 
WATERS 
Shhooctogs ot. 
retina cece 
Re 
ES EIR 
RS 
Parrot Clan maiden 
sitting on a plaque of 
seeds during 
Soydl Ritual. 
* 
Desmond Shiu Massage Roller or 
Can the Yellow Man Help the White Man? 
“based on ancient Chinese philosophy of the five elements. 
Here is an understanding of pollution and a sound concept 
of civilisation. In ancient China, man set out to conquer 
Nature but lived in harmony with Her. Civilisation and 
culture have to start from within. They are an externalisation 
of inner truths. Confucius got hold of one pole of man’s 
being, the heart he called JEN, but for him physical 
training was of equal importance. 
The massage roller cleanses man’s life body and strengthens 
it, restoring to it its native largeness, calm, and creativity. 
A strong and healthy body is holy and unpolluted, as 
portrayed in all great sculptures. Notwithstanding, pollution 
should not be understood as alone the pollution of physical 
substances. It is as well the pollution of consciousness. 
However, that works in vicious circles, and we need to break 
in from all sides. 
A revolution is waging. Each individual is responsible 
whatever his station in life. Therefore ecology in human 
terms is the civilisation we try to save. The massage roller 
is offered as a tool for this revolution.” 
merce and i have used this lathe-turned chunk of hardwood 
for a couple of months, and it seems to work. it is a one 
man massage; you lie on it and roll it down your back 
by scooting your body over it. 
—jd 
cornhusk 
containing 
meal, pollen, 
and henty 
4 
VES 
Z 
ig) 
Ls 
Massage Roller 
~S 
a) 00916 feather 
ae 
$1 0.00 postpaid (slightly cheaper in quantities) 
A 
is 
from: 
Figure §5- Maleend-female pého 
Desmond Shiu 
, 
; 
J 
r 
5 
P.O. Box One 
Every paho, simple or complex, is made with prayerful concentration 
Forastinow: 
and ritually smoked over. Then it is carried 
toa shrine, where it is 
stuck in acleft of rocks or hung on a bush and left until the invisible 
vibrations of the prayer it embodies are slowly absorbed by the forces 
of life to which it is dedicated. 
Sussex, England 
