It 
all comes down, eventually, to whether your 
- 
reasons for engaging in a rural communal situation are 
oncerned with living the good life by having a high time 
a@ High time. Fhe difference between the Nearings’ idea 
of the good life and the good life as lived on most rural 
communes is an enormous amount of self-discipline. Most 
ale | know could never live comfortably in the 
osphere of austerity and hard work that existed at 
__ 
Forest Farm. Nonetheless, the clarity and convictions of 
___ the Nearings is inspiring. They are on the other side of the 
___ Struggle to define an alternative life style, having lived on 
their Vermont farm for twenty years, providing themselves 
__ with all their own food, shelter and fuel in ways that 
_ caused no conflict with their strict pacifist, vegetarian, 
cooperative ideals. 
_- There is more solid, thought-provoking material here than 
__ anything else I’ve seen about communes. No matter what you 
_ 
decide about the good life, the Nearings’ case ought to be 
considered. 
am 
[Reviewed by Terri Gunesch] 
HELEN AND SCOTT NEARING 
Living the Good Life 
HOW TO LIVE SANELY AND SIMPLY 
IN A TROUBLED WORLD 
Introduction by PAUL GOODMAN 
Living the Good Life 
Helen and Scott Nearing 
1954, 1970; 214 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid 
oy 
from: 
Schocken Books 
67 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
.. 
. the troubles which increasingly bedeviled western man were 
_ most acute at the centers of civilization and were multiplying 
as the years passed. Under these conditions we decided that we 
could not remain in the West and live a good life unless we were 
able to find an alternative to western civilization and its outmoded 
culture pattern. 
Was there an alternative? We looked in three directions for an 
- 
answer. First we considered and rejected the possibility of living 
abroad as refugees from what was for us a revolting and increasingly 
intolerable social situation. Even two decades ago, in the early 1930s, 
movement was far easier than it is today. In a very real sense, the 
world lay open before us. Where should we go in search of the good 
life? We were not seeking to escape. Quite the contrary, we wanted 
to find a way in which we could put more into life and get more 
_ 
gut of it. We were not shirking obligations but looking for an 
opportunity to take on more worthwhile responsibilities. The 
chance to help, improve and rebuild was more than an 
opportunity. As citizens, we regarded it as an assignment. 
Therefore, we decided not to migrate. 
Asa second alternative to staying in the urban culture pattern 
of the West, we checked over the possibilities of life in a co- 
operative or an intentional community. In the late 1920s the ne 
chances of such a solution were few, far between and unpromising. 
We would have preferred the cooperative or communal alternative, 
but our experience, inquiries and investigations convinced us 
that there were none available or functioning into whigh we 
could happily and effectively fit. 
Finally, we decided on the third alternative, a self-sufficient 
household economy, in the country, and in the United States, 
which we would try to make solvent, efficient and satisfying. 
- Having made this decision, our next task was to define our purposes 
and adjust them to the possibilities of our situation. 
We were seeking an affirmation,—a way of conducting ourselves, 
of looking at the world and taking part in its activities that 
? 
would provide at least a minimum of those values which we considered 
essential to the good life. As we saw it, such values must include: 
simplicity, freedom from anxiety or tension, an opportunity to 
be useful and to live harmoniously. Simplicity, serenity, utility 
and harmony are not the only values in life, but they are 
among the important ideas , objectives and concepts which a seeker 
after the good life might reasonably expect to develop in a satisfactory 
natural and social environment. As things stand today, it is not 
this combination of values, but rather their opposite (that is, 
; 
complexity, anxiety, waste, ugliness and uproar) which men associate 
with the urban centers of western civilization. 
: 
Scott Nearing tending ave getabl e garden. 
We keep no animals. Almost without exception, Vermont farmers 
have animals, often in considerable variety. We do, not eat animals, 
We thus escape the servitude and dependence which 
tie both farmer and animal together. The old proverb 
“No man is free who has a servant’ could well read “No 
man is free who has an animal.” 
. 
. 
. We believe that all life is to be 
respected—non-human as well as human. Therefore, for sport we 
neither hunt nor fish, nor do we feed on animals. Furthermore, we 
prefer, in our respect for life, not to enslave or exploit our fellow 
creatures. Widespread and unwarranted exploitation of domestic 
animals includes keeping them for their milk or their eggs as well 
as harnessing them to labor for man. Domestic animals, whether 
cows, horses, goats, chickens, dogs or cats are slaves. Humans have 
the power of life or death over them. Men buy them, own them, 
sell them, work them, abuse and torture them and have no 
compunctions against killing and eating them. They compel animals 
to serve them in multitudinous ways. If the animals resist, rebel or 
grow old, they are sent to the butcher or else are shot out of hand. 
e 
We would attempt to carry on this self-subsistent economy by 
the following steps: (1) Raising as much of our own food as local 
soil and climatic conditions would permit. (2) Bartering our 
products for those which we could not or did not produce. (3) 
Using wood for fuel and cutting it ourselves. (4) Putting up our 
own buildings with stone and wood from the place, doing the 
work ourselves. (5) Making such implements as sleds, drays, stone- 
boats, gravel screens, ladders. (6) Holding down to the barest 
minimum the number of implements, tools, gadgets and machines 
which we might buy from the assembly lines of big business. 
(7) |f we had to have such machines for a few hours or days ina 
year (plough, tractor, rototiller, bull-dozer, chainsaw), we would 
rent or trade them from local people instead of buying and owning 
them. 
ji 
We chose stone for several reasons. Stone buildings seem a natural 
out-cropping of the earth. They blend into the landscape and are 
a part of it. We like the varied color and character of the stones, 
which are lying around unused on most New England farms. Stone 
houses are poised, dignified and solid—sturdy in appearance and in 
fact, standing as they do for generations. They are cheaper to 
maintain, needing no paint, little or ho upkeep or repair. They 
will not burn. They are cooler in summer and warmer in winter. 
If, combined with all these advantages, we could build them 
economically, we were convinced that stone was the right material 
for our needs. 
f 
e 
_. 
. we soon discovered that.after the building was finished, the 
different rate of expansion for concrete and wood pulled the two 
apart at times, leaving a small crack between the frame and the concrete 
wall. We remedied this in later construction by cutting a square 
groove all around the outside of the frame and inserting a small 
strip of wood which projected % inch or a little more beyond 
the center of the frame into the concrete. Later we improved this 
method still more and cut a groove half an inch deep with a bench-saw 
and set a piece of galvanized metal % inch wide into the groove. 
This took less time than inserting the wood strip and served the 
same purpose of bridging the crack between frame and concrete. 
A Manual of Simple Burial 
Not everybody has an opportunity to depart this world 
gracefully, and those that do usually blow it. The people 
left behind fumble just as badly, for largely the same reasons: 
ignornace, fear, a lack of foresight and preparation. None 
but the dead can know for sure the full consequences of 
the failure. But even if there are no consequences for the 
dead, there are enough of them for the survivors in the forms 
of trauma and ruptured bank accounts, to make this 
Manual of Simple Burial seem something like a life-saver. 
For this little manual of death is firmly on the side of life. 
As part of the literature of funerals, it’s like a living rosebud 
in a bouquet of plastic flowers. In 64 pages it quietly tells 
you how to avoid the ghastly system of converting human 
left-overs into products packaged as “funerals.” In simple 
language backed by intelligent sympathy, it suggests ways 
to surround the act of passage with appropriate rites 
of passage that offer real meaning to people in need of 
meaning. 
According to the manual, the main alternative to expensive, 
hastily-improvised funerals is membership in a memorial 
society. 
A memorial society is “a voluntary group of 
people who have joined together to obtain dignity, simplicity 
and economy 
in funeral arrangements through advance 
planning.” The manual provides a list of several societies 
by name and address. It also has information on cremation, 
autopsies, eye-banks, bequeathal of bodies, and the 
business and legal matters that usually attend a death, as 
well as chapters with titles like “Interpreting Death To A 
Child,” and “What to Do When Death Occurs.” 
Men choose their horrors. We choose war. We choose 
pollution. And, by default, we choose to make the rituals 
surrounding death grotesque. But what is chosen can 
be unchosen, once an alternative is clear. The Manual of 
Simple Burial describes.a clear alternative to one of our 
chosen horrors. 
[Reviewed by Gurney Norman] 
FOURTH EDITION 
Hew to obtain simplicity, dignity and economy 
in funeral arrangements through. 
i 
a manual 
of simple Burial 
By Ema Morgan 
COMTEMTS 
‘The Significanea 
of 
Simple Burial Comments 
on 
Funeral Director: 
‘The Need for Advance Planning A Memo to 
Funeral Directors 
Induding @ special section with official information about 
The Continantal Association of Funeral & Memorial Societies 
1968 
+ THE CELO PRESS 
+ ONE DOLLAR 
A Manual of Simple Burial 
Ernest Morgan 
: 
1968; 64 pp. 
$1 .00 postpaid 
from: 
The Celo Press 
Burnsville, North Carolina 28714 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
* 
Funeral and Memorial Societies 
The best alternative to expensive, hastily-improvised 
funerals is membership in a memorial society. The 
Continental Association of Funeral and Memorial Societies, 
Inc. publishes a list of member groups in the United 
States and Canada. 
List of Member Societies 
free 
from: 
The Continental Association of Funeral and Memorial Societies 
59 East Van Buren Street 
; 
Chicago, Ilinois 60605 
