* 
The Zen Teachings of Huang Po 
The Zen Teachings 
of Huang Po 
pam and i were schoolteachers in montana 
jo08; 136 EY nile 
ait 
(hello carl) 
; 
. 
and the things i learned were: 
$1.95 postpaid 
outflowing-free-let-them-do-what-they-want 
: 
free things 
tie 
¢ 
eas 
: 
Grove Press, Inc. 
carried your invention through a few days, 
214 Mercer Street 
then, 
New York, New York 10012 
ae jstel pig wits 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
and you get caught, 
in, 
either, 
well this is what i really meant, 
or, 
why don’t you people think of something to do. 
so, 
rather than abandon free things, 
either, 
do yourself more completely, 
or, 
figure out a way, 
to let everyone, 
do themselves more completely. 
jd 
* 
Worlds in the Making 
We see all manner of books on the Future around here, and 
| can’t think of a nicer one than this. It’s a collection of 
readings aimed, pretty accurately, at teen-age readership. 
/t presents the future not as a menace or a promise, but 
as a home, a hard and damned interesting place to live. 
Worlds in the Making 
Dunstan & Garlan 
1970; 370 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid 
3. Mind is like the void in which there is no confusion or 
evil, as when the sun wheels through it shining upon the four corners 
of the world. For, when the sun rises and illuminates the whole 
earth, the void gains not in brilliance; and, when the sun sets, the 
void does not darken. The phenomena of light and dark alternate 
with each other, but the nature of the void remains unchanged. 
So it is with the Mind of the Buddha and of sentient beings. If 
you look upon the Buddha as presenting a pure, bright or Enlightened 
appearance, or upon sentient beings as presenting a foul, dark 
or mortal-seeming appearance, these conceptions resulting from 
attachment to form will keep you from supreme knowledge, 
even after the passing of as many aeons as there are sands in the 
Ganges. There is only the One Mind and not a particle of anything 
else on which to lay hold, for this Mind is the Buddha. If you 
students of the Way do not awake to this Mind substance, you will 
overlay Mind with conceptual thought, you will seek the Buddha 
Outside yourselves, and you will remain attached to forms, pious 
practices and so on, all of which are harmful and not at all the 
way to supreme knowledge. 
When we talk of the knowledge ‘I’ may gain, the learning ‘I’ may 
achieve, ‘my’ intuitive understanding, ‘my’ deliverance from 
rebirth, and ‘my’ moral way of living, our successes make these 
concepts seem pleasant to us, but our failures make them appear 
deplorable. What is the use of all that? | advise you to remain 
uniformly quiescent and above all activity. Do not deceive yourselves 
with conceptual thinking, and do not !ook anywhere for the truth, 
for all that is needed is to refraini from allowing concepts to 
arise. It is obvious that mental concepts and external perceptions 
are equally misleading, and that the Way of the Buddhas is as 
dangerous to you as the way of demons. Thus, when Manjusri 
temporarily entered into dualism, he found himself dwarfed by 
two iron mountains which made egress impossible. But Manjusri had 
true understanding, while Samantabhadra possessed only 
ephemeral 
knowledge. Nevertheless, when true understanding 
and ephemeral, knowledge are properly integrated, it will be 
found that they no longer exist. There is only the One Mind, 
which is neither Buddha nor sentient beings, for it cantains no 
such dualism. As soon as you conceive of the Buddha, you are 
forced to conceive of sentient beings, or of concepts and no-concepts, 
of vital and trivial ones, which will surely imprison you between 
those two iron mountains. 
=cp 
from: 
Prentice-Hall Inc. 
Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey 07632 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
a 
eee 
How Children Learn 
now in paperback 
How Children Learn 
John Holt 
1967, 70; 156 pp. 
$.95 postpaid 
from: 
Del! Publishing Company 
750 Third Avenue 
New York, New York 10017 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Why does a baby begin to make sounds in the first place? Is it 
instinctive, like crying? It seems not to be. A puppy raised 
apart from other dogs will know how to bark when he gets 
old enough. But the few children we know of who grew up without 
human contact, grew up almost wholly mute. Babies in under- 
staffed foundling hospitals, who see very little of older people, are 
said, except for crying, to be almost silent. Apparently it is from 
hearing people speak around them that babies get the idea of 
) 
“speaking.’’ When they make their first sounds, are they imitating 
the sounds they hear around them? Or are they inventing, 
so to speak, from Scratch? Perhaps at first they mostly invent, 
and imitate more later. 
132 
"woridal 
in the making 
probe 
f 
We must recognize that there are some teachers who like being 
“\eader-draggers.’’ They like to feel that they are at every moment in 
control, not only of the child’s body, but also of his mind. They 
like to feel themselves the source and the sole source of all knowledge, 
wisdom, and learning in the classroom. Some such teachers are 
moved by a love of power, of which the classroom gives them plenty; 
others, by a deep and sometimes desperate need to feel useful, 
necessary, and even indispensable to their students. Both kinds 
are strongly threatened by any suggestion that children can 
and should learn on their own. Many other teachers would like 
to give their students more independence and self-direction, but 
are held back by a fear of the standardized tests by which their 
pupils, and they themselves, will be judged. In any school whose 
main business is preparing children to get high scores on achievement 
tests, regents’ exams, merit scholarship exams, college boards, and the 
like, we are not likely to see much open-ended, independent student 
work. It must be said in fairness, too, that so far not many of the 
curriculum reformers and educational revolutionaries have shown 
much interest in it either. They tend to be so sure that the path 
they have marked out for their students is the best of all possible 
paths, that their main concern is how to lead or drag them down 
it as fast as possible. 
Explanations. We teachers—perhaps all human beings—are in the 
grip of an astonishing delusion. We think that we can take a picture, 
a structure, a working model of something, constructed in our minds 
out of long experience and familiarity, and by turning that model 
into a string of words, transplant it whole into the mind of someone 
else. Perhaps once in a thousand times, when the explanation is 
extraordinarily good, and the listener extraordinarily experienced 
and skillful at turning word strings into non-verbal reality, 
and when explainer and listener share in common many of the 
experiences being talked about, the process may work, and some 
real meaning may be communicated. Most of the time, explaining 
does not increase understanding, and may even lessen it. 
It is a remarkable business. We are so used to talking that we 
forget that it takes a very subtle and conplicated coordination of 
lips, tongue, teeth, palate, jaws, cheeks, voice, and breath. Simply 
as a muscular skill it is by far the most complicated and difficult 
that most of us ever learn, at least as difficult as the skill required 
to master a serious musical instrument. We realize how difficult 
speech is only when we first try to make the sounds of a language 
very different from our own. Suddenly we find that our mouths 
and tongues won't do what we want. Yet every child learns to 
make the sounds of his own language. If he lives where more than 
one language is spoken, he makes the sounds of them all. How does 
he do it? His coordination is poor to start with; how does he manage 
to do what many adults find so difficult? 
The answer seems to be by patient and persistent experiment; by 
trying many thousands of times to make sounds, syllables, and 
words; by comparing his own sounds to the sounds made by people 
around him; and by gradually bringing his own sounds closer to 
the others, above all, by being willing to do things wrong even while 
trying his best to do them right. 
