_ The Tarot: A Key to 
Paul Foster Case 
. $4.00 postpaid 
thing you need, and it’s free. 
the 
E ably shouldn't be used for blackjack or strip poker. 
_ ive seen quite a few decks in the hands of counter culture 
psies, but have yet to run into someone who knew much 
at the wrong end of things. instead of getting the cards first 
and trying to divine their meaning, try doing this book, 
__ 
learning about the symbolism, then building your own deck 
f 
' from the information you've gathered. 
jd 
[Suggested by Sam Bercholz] 
THE 
TAROT 
A Key to the Wisdom of the Ages 
Wisdom 
of the Ages 
1947; 215pp. 
from: 
Macoy Publishing Company 
Box 9825 
Richmond, Virginia 23228 
0. An ellipse, representing the Cosmic Egg, whence come all 
things. Zero is a symbol of the absence of quality, quantity, or 
mass. Thus it denotes absolute freedom from every limitation 
* 
Mind, Matter, and Gravitation 
Mind, Matter and Gravitation, #11 of the Parapsychological 
Monographs 
The way | would recommend this book is to recommend the 
That is to say, if you have some-sort of scientific interest in 
the “one step beyond” world, and you are capable of 
putting up with the scientific bullshit, and understanding 
all this probability, statistics, etc., then it seems to me 
that Duke University has gone and found some things out 
for you. !n the particular book | read (Mind Matter and 
Gravitation) for the review, someone named Haakon 
Forwald has measured the amount of force a human mind 
can exert on an object, and then discovered that this force 
is in direct ratio to the avg. atomic weight of the surface 
of the object. Dig that. | went to Duke and used to read 
these things in my spare time, and it seems | remember 
that moving things with the will is only one of many far 
. 
out things they are starting to prove. 
[Reviewed by D. Smith] 
Mind, Matter and Gravitation 
Haakon Forwald 
1969; 72pp. 
$3.00 postpaid 
from: 
The Parapsychology Foundation, Inc. 
29 West 57th Street 
New York, New York 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Human Biocomputer 
BACK IN PRINT. After a year of absence, this landmark 
paper is back at a lower price (formerly $7.95, now $1.50). 
_John Lilly has worked for a long time with sensory depri- 
vation, pursuing the notion that relieving the computer 
(mind) of many of its environmental-survival chores frees it 
to attend more fully to self-investigation. Of late he’s added 
LSD to the process and has found ways to flourish and dis- 
cover within this doubly floating condition. 
The paper HUMAN BIOCOMPUTER is the best internal 
guidebook I’ve seen—far more practical and generalized 
than transcendent Eastern writings or wishful Underground 
notes. Though it’s not the whole story by any means, it 
makes an open start on fresh language and powerful tech- 
nique for the frontier. 
- An additional advantage the paper 
offers is the opportunity 
to learn and explore computers without requiring money 
or administrative approval. You inherited and grew every- 
[Suggested by Ralph Metzner] 
ds are a way of plugging into ancient symbolism. 
- 
nore than how to shuffle them. maybe we have been starting 
whole mess, which is all of the Parapsychological Monographs. 
whatever. It is a sign of the infinite and eternal Conscious Energy, 
itself No-Thing, though manifested in everything. It is That which 
was, is, and shall be forever; but is it nothing we can name. 
Boundless, infinitely potential, living light, it is the rootless root of 
all things, of all activities, of all modes of consciousness. In it 
are included all imaginable and unimaginable possibilities, but 
it transcends them all. The Qabalists call it: (a) No-Thing; (b) The 
Boundless; (c) Limitless Light. Pure Conscious Energy, above and 
beyond thought, to us it is Superconsciousness. 
Experimental parapsychology is generally divided into two 
areas, one of them dealing with investigations of a psychic character 
(telepathy, clairvoyance, etc.), and other the dealing with inves- 
tigations of a psychic character where physical effects also appear 
(for instance, a psychical influence on the movements of physical 
bodies). These areas are generally designated as ESP (extra 
sensory perception) and PK (psychokinesis). These terms are 
preferably used in connection with results obtained in quantitative 
experiments, in which a great number of trials are carried out 
under uniform conditions. The experimental series is planned in 
such a way that the results can be dealt with on the basis of 
generally recognized, even statistical methods. Psychokinesis 
is considered as a debatable occurrence by many parapsychologists. 
Most people believe that PK represents a physical impossibility 
because energetical laws are apparently violated. ESP is more 
easily accepted because many consider it explainable on the basis 
of some sort of “‘radiation.”’ It is obvious that genuine PK results 
would require a reconsideration of the general validity of energetical 
laws. This is such a profound problem that extraordinary care must 
be taken in conducting PK experiments and in analyzing their 
results. |f in a PK experiment the statistical significance of the 
results strongly suggests that there have been deviations from 
recognized physical laws, the validity of the experiment will 
hardly be convincing. Reasons for the observed deviation are 
generally sought in defective experimental conditions, faulty 
observations, and the like. Thus, over the years, conditions in 
PK research have gradually been improved (for instance by 
introducing photographic methods) but extra-physical effects have 
nevertheless been uncovered. 
... the investigations suggest that the mental efforts of the 
experimenter (and to some extent factors beyond his conscious 
control) produce a reaction within the atomic nuclei of the cube 
material, and that this reaction releases gravitational effects 
which are controlled in a suitable way during the movement of 
the cube. The energy required for the lateral movement is then 
considered to be delivered by the cube through the transformation 
of a tiny part of the cube material from mass to energy according 
to Einstein’s formula E=mc2 where c is the velocity of light. The 
loss in mass is far too small to be measured as the difference in 
weight of the cube before and after an experimental series. But 
it should in principle be possible to determine by-mass-spectrometry 
whether the isotope composition of the cube material was changed 
during the experiment. A positive result in such an investigation 
might give a direct proof of the existence of psychokinesis. 
Programming and Metaprogramming 
in the Human Biocomputer— 
Theory and Experiments 
John C. Lilly, M.D. 
1967, 1970; 112 pp. 
$1 +50 postpaid 
from 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
558 Santa Cruz Avenue 
Menlo Park, Ca. 94025 
PROGRAMMING AND 
s] 
METAPROGRAMMING 
IN THE 
HUMAN 
BIOCOMPUTER 
THEORY 
AND EXPERIMENTS 
copies for resale from: 
BOOK PEOPLE 
2940 Seventh Street 
Berkeley, California 94710 
By John Cuaningham Jilly, M.D, 
(Author of The Mind 
of the 
Dolphin, Man and Dolphin, 
and forthcoming The Cyclone's Center) 
WET 
Th 
Pe oo arena 
[S| THE 
HERMIT |= 
The inventors, this tradition avers, were a group of adepts who 
met at stated intervals in the city of Fez, in Morocco. After the 
_ 
destruction of Alexandria, Fez became the literary and scientific 
capital of the world. Thither, from all parts of the globe, came 
wise men of all nations, speaking all tongues. Their conferences _ 
were made difficult by differences in language and philosophical — 
terminology. So they hit upon the device of embodying the most 
important of their doctrines in a book of pictures, whose 
combinations should depend on the occult harmonies of numbers. 
* 
The Aquarian Alphaphone 
a device for communication with self, 
based on the notion that 
certain vibrations are better 
than others. 
if you have a hundred and seventy five bucks, 
and were considering using it to learn 
how to bowl, 
a 
for instance, 
- 
i’d recommend listening to yourself, 
first. 
jd 
The Aquarian Alphaphone 
$175.00 (information free) 
From: 
PO Box 627 
Mendicino, CA 95400 
In many studies of various meditative techniques it has been found 
~ 
that the major, significant difference between a “master” and a 
“novice’’ of the technique is that the master produces more of and a 
stronger brain wave which is known as the Alpha-wave. The brain 
is continuously producing very small electrical currents which — 
occur in various places in the brain. For example, the brain wave 
which is produced in normal consciousness is known as the Beta-wave 
and occurs with a frequency greater’than 13 cycles per second. The 
Alpha frequency range is from 8 to 12 cycles per second and is 
~ 
usually associated with light sleep. Alpha-wave production 
is 
usually random. Recent experimental studies have shown, however, 
— 
that a person can learn to turn on the Alpha rhythm at will. In 
— 
fact, a researcher, working with paid subjects, found that ALL 
subjects learned to control their Alpha rhythm, i.e. they learned 
this mental control. Given a choice, all subjects preferred to turn on 
their Alpha rhythm. The researcher now has a long waiting list 
_ 
of volunteer, non-paid subjects. 
The major problems of the research of interest to the author center 
on the erasability, modifiability, and creatibility of programs. In 
other words, | am interested in the processes of findingmetapro- 
grams (and methods and substances) which control, change, and 
créate the basic metaprograms of the human computer. It is not 
known whether one can really erase any program. 
- 
| believe that by using certain methods and means some of which 
| 
are presented in this work that truly talented and dedicated indivi- 
duals can forge, find, and devise new ways of looking at our minds, 
ways which are truly scientific, intellectually economical, and inter- 
actively creative. Consider for example, the case of the fictitious 
= 
individual created by the group.of mathematicians masquerading — 
under the name of “Dr. Nicholas Bourbaki”. 
ee) 
This group of mathematicians in order to create a mathematics 
or 
sets of mathematics beyond the capacity of any one individual, _ 
: 
held meetings three times a year and exchanged ideas, then went 
off and worked separately. The resulting papers were published 
under a pseudonym because the products of this work were felt 
to 
be a group result beyond any one individual's contribution. 
e 
: 
= 
ee. 
In the maximally attentuated environment (92 to 95 degrees F 
; 
isothermal skin, salt water supension, zero light levels, near-zero 
sound levels, without clothes, without wall or floor contacts, in 
solitude in remote isolation, for several hours), the addition 
of 
eC 
LSD-25 allows one to see that all the previous experiences with 
“outside screens” are evasions of deeper penetration of self (a 
hence are ‘‘screens” in the sense of “blocking the view behin 
as well as ‘receiving the projected images’). 
5 
