Canadian Whole Earth Almanac 
Tracy McCallum, editor 
1970; 122pp. 
single copies $3.00 
subscription per year: $9.00 
from: 
The Canadian Whole Earth Almanac 
341 Bloor Street West 
Room 208 
Toronto 181, Ontario, Canada 
India Trading Co. Ltd. 
Located at: 
113 Dupont St. 
Toronto 180, Ont. 
Carries a complete line of all ingredients necessary 
in Indian cookery. Spices, flours, rices, Dahls, chut- 
neys, nuts, and vermicelli. Price list upon request. 
*A Directory of Information Resources 
in the United States 
walking down through berkeley one day 
reading all the three by five needs 
on the peoples bulletin boards 
i started wondering if there was someone 
who was acting as a runner between the different 
ideas, 
getting “need riders to valentine, nebraska, leaving 
9/5/70” together with the person on the next bulletin 
board “desperately trying to get to pine ridge, south 
dakota, by the tenth.” 
well, if there are ombudsmen around, this book 
should be of some use to them, 
a mail order researcher’s wetdream tool, 
plug in your questions, 
make the connections, 
sit back and gather goodies. 
~jd 
[Suggested by Stephen Eric Shore] 
A Directory 
of 
Information 
Resources 
in the 
United States 
National Referral Center for Scienee and Technology 
* 
Canadian Whole Earth Almanac 
son of whole earth meets the mapleleaf m ysteries 
and superpress, 
breeds with them, 
and gives birth to 
a beautiful babybeaver catalog. 
thats the script. 
—jd 
This first issue of the Almanac has been a long 
time coming. It was first conceived in response 
to the Canadian subscribers to the Whole Earth 
Catalog, who wrote letters to the Whole Earth 
Truck Store in Menlo Park, California, complain- 
ing of a dearth of information in regard to sources 
for tools and books in Canada. My wife and I 
owned a farm in Canada and had experienced 
similar difficulties. Some time in January of this 
year when I was temporarily managing the Whole 
Earth Truck Store, I was talking with Stewart 
Brand and suggested that someone ought to pub- 
lish a Canadian version of the Catalog. To this he 
responded, “Maybe you should.” So here we are. 
SOLAR ENERGY SOCIETY 
Technical Research Science Center 
Campus, Arizona State University 
Tempe, Ariz. 85281 
Telephone: 966-3534 (Area code: 602) 
The Center acquires, analyzes, abstracts, and indexes published 
and other prepared information in the field of solar energy, 
including research and development and production data. Areas 
covered are: Solar energy as a source of heat for evaporation 
processes, space-water heating and absorptive collectors, cooling 
Processes, solar cookers and heat collectors, thermoelectric 
devices, vapor, hot air, fluid-heat engines, solar furnaces, and 
thermionic devices; solar energy as a source of light for 
photo chemical processes and photoelectric, photovoltaic, 
photogalvanic, and piezoelectric effects; and the general aspects of 
solar energy, including radiation mechanics and availability, 
economic, social, and cultural parameters of solar energy, 
accessories, geophysical and meteorological aspects, materials 
and production, energy storage, historical and foreign aspects, 
data sources and bibliographies, proceedings, symposia, and meetings. 
Foreign language publications are in Russian, Italian, Spanish, 
French, and German. 
Information services are available without charge. The Center 
answers technical questions, performs literature searches, 
compiles data and reports, and provides a consulting service. 
Reports and data are reproduced for a fee. No loans are permitted. 
Both Solar Energy, which contains abstracts, and Sun at Work are 
issued quarterly. They are free to members and available to others 
on subscription. The Applied Solar Energy Research directory and 
bibliography is published every 5 years. 
A Directory of Information Resources 
in the United States 
National Referral Center for Science and Technology 
1965; 352 pp. 
$2.25 
from: 
va 
cqohee 
Superindendent of Documents 
U.S. Government Printing Office 
Washington, D.C. 20402 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Garlie—innibits peas and beans. Garlic is vety usefiql 
Onions—are good planted with beets and carrots. A 
elsewhere in the garden as a pest repellant. A tea made 
with fresh garlic helps against potato blight. Roses 
grown near garlic have a stronger perfume 
few camomile plants (1 
every 4 yds. of onions) 
are 
beneficial to the onions. Do not plant onions near 
peas or beans, as onions inhibit their growth 
LOS ANGELES COUNTY AIR POLLUTION 
CONTROL DISTRICT 
434 South San Pedro Street 
Los Angeles, Calif. 90012 
Telephone: 629-4711 (Area code: 213) 
A local Government agency, the APCD compiles, analyzes, and 
generates data and reports on air pollution, source control, and air 
monitoring for the Los Angeles area. Data are available for on-site 
reference only. Most reports are free; a limited number are 
available at cost. 
Publications obtainable free on request include the monthly 
News Report, the monthly Report of Meteorology, Air Pollution 
Effects and Contaminant Maxima (Los Angeles County), and the 
Quarterly Contaminant Report. 
LABORATORY OF TREE RING RESEARCH 
University of Arizona 
Tucson, Ariz. 85717 
Telephone: 624-8181 Extension 807 (Area code: 602) 
Sponsored by Federal, State, and private instutions, the Laboratory 
conducts studies in tree growth and climate, the development of 
millenia-long tree-ring chronologies, and the application of tree-ring 
dates to prehistoric events, particularly in archeology. The age of 
plants and any structure or event with which they were associated 
while living or after they had been cut or dried is determined. Past 
climates are interpreted, with particular references to trends which 
might be repeated in the future. Approximately 100,000 prehistoric 
tree-ring specimens, mostly from the Southwest, are housed in the 
Laboratory. Approximately 15,000 specimens from, living or 
recently dead trees from the western part of the United States, as 
well as from Canada, Alaska, and Mexico, are also available for 
study. Included in the latter group are samples from sequoias up to 
3,200 years old and bristlecone pines up to 4,600 years old. 
A library, maintained primarily for staff members and students, is 
accessible for use by the public. A consulting service is available 
on a fee basis. 
The quarterly Tree Ring Bulletin is available with annual 
membership in the Tree Ring Society or by purchase. 
