* 
The Eagle, The Jaguar, and the Serpent 
i’ve had this book out of the library for about four years 
coat ane 
now, and haven't read the text yet, got my money’s worth 
, 
69; 
155pp. 
out of the illustrations. 
$35.00 posttpid 
—jd 
from: 
Van Nostrand Reinhold Company 
450 West 33rd St. 
New York, N.Y. 10001 
The Art of Color 
The Eagle, the Jaguar, 
and the Serpent 
: 
Indian Art of the Americas 
Miguel! Covarrubias 
1954; 314 pp. 
$20.00 postpaid 
from: 
Alfred A Knopf, Inc. 
Random House Building 
201 East 50th Street 
New York, New York 10022 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
left the room. 
No one 
ewitwasonlya 
— 
t laughingly turned the 
Dirits of the gathering 
xert profound 
of them or not? 
e 
with important 
he growth of plants, 
b 
Outline sketch, Apples and Oranges. Paul Cézanne, 
One cannot simply 
4 
flowers. It would be 
in wooden fence, or 
Il, because these 
effect. 
The outline sketch shows salient features of the composition—subdivision 
of area, spatial directions, contrast of forms and their distribution over the 
surface. Relationships of accent points and lines are indicated by vertical, 
horizontal and diagonal lines. 
7 
The upward diverging main lines of the middle picture are interesting. They 
run contrary to a ‘“‘normal’’ perspective, where the lines of a picture con- 
verge upon a vanishing point. The two infinite directions are opposed by 
two pairs of lines intersecting on the upper margin of the picture. Thus 
the beholder is compelled to concentrate upon the subject. 
Yellow is the most light-giving of all hues. It loses this trait the 
moment we shade it with gray, black or violet. Yellow is, as it 
were, a denser, material white. The further this yellowed light is 
drawn into the denseness of matter, of opacity, the more it is 
assimilated to yellow-orange, orange and red-orange. Our red 
is the stopping point of yellow, with which it is not visibly 
tinged. In the center of the yellow-to-red band, we have orange, 
as the strongest and most concentrated interpenetration of 
light and matter. Golden yellow suggests the highest sublimation 
of matter by the power of light, impalpably radiant, lacking 
transparency, but weightless as a pure vibration. Gold was 
formerly much used in painting. It signifies luminous, light-emitting 
matter. The golden domes of Byzantine mosaics and the back- 
grounds of the paintings of early masters were symbols of the 
beyond, the marvelous, the kingdom of sun and light. The 
golden aura of saints is the token of their transfiguration. The 
attainment of this state was conceived as an envelopment by 
light. This heavenly light could not be symbolized except by 
gold. 
f 
It is essential to distinguish between music the sole purpose of 
society was id the most 
a servant 
of the collective, and 
isk of 
being 
put to death if he 
e collecti e’s expectations. In the 
erer’s role was shared between the 
ative or spokesman of society. He 
une his public with his own private 
relevant, 
and was judged only by 
allengeable, just as the sorcerer's 
Ww 
) expound the profound 
en, 
to make plain to them the 
les of 
social and/ historical 
le of the essential relation- 
vareness 
of the people of 
: 
erate men, as they emerged 
collective into a world of division of 
e 
anxieties 
of an ambiguous, 
id from the dread of an insecure 
al 
into collective life, the: 
which is to produce a uniform and deliberate effect, thus 
stimulating an assembly of people to collective action of an 
intended kind, and music whose meaning is, in itself, expressing 
feelings, ideas, sensations, or experiences, and which, far from 
welding people into a homogeneous mass with identical reactions, 
allows free play to individual, subjective associations. Sacred 
music in the early Middle Ages fell into the first category, so 
_ 
that few may say it had an ‘objective’ character, in contrast to the 
*subjective’, expressive character of secular music whose rise 
coincided with that of the bourgeoisie. If we examine the long 
and contradictory process of the secularization of music we are 
bound to admit that music is an eminently social phenomenon: 
that, although it consists of organized sounds, the very organization 
of those sounds corresponds to the organization of society at a 
particular time. The secularization of music, starting with the 
troubadours and the great heretical movements—i.e., with the 
incipient opposition of the knights and burghers—spread' gradually 
to sacred music itself, so that religious music eventually became 
worldly. Old church music had been inseparably tied to the church; 
it received its ‘content’ from the liturgy and served, with severe 
and impersonal magnificence, not the listener's pleasure but 
his subjugation, forcing him to identify himself, kneeling, with the 
divine cause. 
Among hunting tribes there exists a custom according to which, 
before the men set out for the hunt, the women must dance 
and create an atmosphere of sexual excitement; the hunters, 
however, may not have intercourse with the women at this time 
but must satisfy their sexual excitement by killing animals. 
Frazer reports that the Nutka Sound Indians were compelled to 
refrain from all sexual intercourse during the week of the great 
whale hunt. A chief who failed to catch a whale was called to 
account by his tribesmen for having broken the chastity rule. 
The identification of women with the prey is partly connected 
with the beginnings of the sex struggle, which may be described 
as the first class struggle of history; partly, however, its cause 
goes back to the ancient way of seeing all similar things as identical. 
Bachofen points out that when prehistoric hunters had sexual 
intercourse with their women, they would stick a spear into the 
ground outside their hunt or cave, this spear being the symbol of 
the phallus. 
[The Necessity of Art] 
