‘The Free University of New York / 
Joseph Berke 
_ 
Founding an Ant>University / 
Roberts Etrey 
Tey 
— 
A ; 
Courses from Free University 
4 
| 
Basic Documents 
uz 
New Experimental 
College / 
Peter Staraill 
366 
“The Creation of the Wortd in 
‘Simon Hartog 
My Imoga / Aage Rosenday Nieken 
q 
m 
AS 
a 
To publish your own paper you will need: white matboard, paper 
(ruled in light blue if you prefer), rubber cement, knives, blue 
pencils, rulers, ruling pens, liner tape, clear acetate, typewriter(s), 
_ hard type, unmentioned paraphernalia, money and amphetamine, 
not necessarily in that order. 
* 
Beyond Economics 
Since so many of you dwell on the fringes of society, 
! thought you might be interested in the fringes of 
economics where Kenneth Boulding thoughtfully paces. 
Those places where economics meets religion and ethics, 
meets general systems, social science, learning theory, 
evolution, and (watch it) politics. 
—SB 
Beyond Economics 
Kenneth E. Boulding 
1968, 1970; 308 pp. 
$2 .95 postpaid 
from: 
University of Michigan Press 
615 East University 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48104 
Kenneth E.Boulding 
Coaysin 
Ioly Aen 
and Che 
Beyond Economics 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Similarly atoms come and go in a molecule, but the molecule 
remains, molecules come and go in acell, but the cell remains, 
-__ cells come and go in a body, but the body remains; persons come 
___ and go in an organization, but the organization remains. What 
____ “remains’’ in the midst of all this flux of components is the “‘role,’’ 
fe Fy _ the “place,” and the relations of roles one to another. A role is 
: 
-ahole, an organization is a related and orderly set of holes, 
and one sometimes catches a fleeting and slightly night-marish 
___ vision of the scientific universe as a set of holes bounded and 
defined by other holes! The significance of almost anything, like 
___ that of a word, is derived largely from its context; everything, 
-__— however, is the context for other things; context creates itself, 
ad infinitum. 
* 
. 
‘e 
5 Energy and matter can Only be exchanged: knowledge can be 
produced. 
} 
ws 
| 
e 
ae 
>» Bes 
ees 
The Communist society 
is a ‘‘one-firm’’ 
state —that is, a society 
organized hierarchically into a single economic organization. 
: seh _ 
It is simply General Motors (or perhaps more realistically, 
-__ 
the Pentagon, which is in terms of national income the world’s 
2 
third largest Communist society) expanded to include the whole 
ve : economy, with the possible exception of a few Nepmen and some 
q 
urreptitious private trade. A capitalist society by contrast is 
“ecological” where the Communist society is ‘‘organic.”’ A 
Communist society is a true Leviathan, a vast social whale; 
pitalist society is more like a pond with a great multitude 
teracting organisms bound together in a system of mutual 
ange, or markets. 
. 
_ 
}' 
exch 
e 
a genuine learning process—the continual elimination of error in 
r image of the world, 
as well as the enlargement of this image—is 
take place, there must be safeguards against rejecting inferences 
ajecting the image of the past.. 
ee a 
* 
Counter Culture 
Here’s the other side of the purist, back-to-the-land-and- 
live-simply movement-—resistance and creativity in the 
midst of the iniquitous old culture. Documents the scene 
in Europe and the U S with articles by Tuli Kupferberg, 
Julian Beck, Stokely Carmichael, Christopher Koch, Allen 
Ginsberg. How to do a free university, an underground 
newspaper, a commune, listener-supported radio, live free 
in the city. The mind-boggling graphics of post-psychedelia 
fill in the spaces. Get it now, while it’s hot, or perhaps 
you'd like to wait till the younger generation decides it’s 
time for a counter counter culture. 
—HH 
It takes a great deal of effort, it takes a great deal of conscious 
awareness and also the ability, the need, the desire and the help of 
chance and love to put yourself into a situation in which you find 
yourself liberated enough so that you can work and create co- 
operatively with another person. It is necessary to surrender your 
identity to someone else, and in the group one begins to find very 
strange things, you begin to find a form of communication that 
is—let me say, | speak personally—a form of communication that 
you had not previously experienced. And you also reach that point 
in discussion and work and improvisation when you find that a 
poetry more vaulting than your own begins to emerge from other 
Counter Culture—The Creation 
of an Alternative Society 
Joseph Berke, editor 
1969; 415 pp. 
parts and other sections and carries you along, and the joy of 
$10 90 
: 
becoming part of that, the feeling that it is part of you and you are 
' 
° 
postpaid 
part of it is almost excessive. And | speak now almost in a missionary 
ree, 
fashion, because | have had the pleasure of this particular kind 
of anguish, and | simply say to you that if there is opportunity for 
you in your own time and your own work to begin to go further 
in the procreative joys of the co-operative, do so. 
Peter Owen Ltd. 
12 Kendrick Mews 
Knedrick Place 
London SW7 ENGLAND 
(Julian Beck) 
or Blackwell’s 
(see page 81) 
Have we, or have they, that much care for ourselves and for each 
other that we're willing to accept each other then, to work without 
fear, without paranoia, and enjoy ourselves finally? Begin to play 
again, get out of the system, not answer the machine back, not 
escalate the old—simply wipe it out? 
... The surface of the planet has to be replanted, back to some 
living delight, instead of dead vibrations. |t doesn’t need leaders, 
doesn’t need centralized authority, just needs realization of ideas, 
or the possibilities of ideas, like free food, free stores, free 
co-operative activity, underground papers. These community 
activities spread naturally on their own and can be practised 
democratically on the grass roots, with the active political 
consciousness of the massive raisened (raisened?)—raised (raisened?) 
—'‘leavened’—Raised. 
(Allen Ginsberg) 
“CECOCO” MOTORLESS HYDRO-HI-LIFT PUMP 
This particular pump will raise water by the power caused by means 
of declivity of water-flow up to the height 30 times of water head 
and operates automatically without any motive power such as 
gasoline, other fuel oils and electricity and no attendance for 
operation is necessary. It is extensively used in Japan for water 
supply at home, and field for irrigation, spraying and water reservoir 
on the top of mountain and hill. 
Rural Industry 
This guide catalogs several hundred tools, all manufactured 
or distributed by CeCoCo (Central Commerical Co.), and 
all applicable to what they term “cottage industry”. In 
quaint English translation CeCoCo editors spell out the small 
scale cottage industry concept: 
PRINCIPLE: tn order to raise the water automatically, by 
multiplied power of (1) the water hammer pressure leading pipe 
installed with a slight inclination and (2) the specific gravity with 
effectivity of the air in the delivery pipe taken in by the negative 
pressure (Vacuum) caused by the reactional flow of the water hammer 
pressure. 
HOW TO INSTALL: Although it is motorless, it has to have a flow 
of water as the source of power to operate the pump and the 
“head” is absolutely necessary. During operation, proportionate 
amount of water to be delivered, therefore it must have drainage. 
The gist of such parts are: 
(1) Head 0.5—4 meter for small type and 1—8 meter for large type 
is considered to be the best for practical use. 
(2) Leading Water Pipe: The length of leading pipe is, for practical 
use, approximately 8 times of the Water Head and the pipe must 
be kept straight. It needs to be hard, therefore it is advisable 
to use steel pipe. 
(3) Delivery Pipe: The size of the delivery pipe is half in diameter 
of the leading pipe. 
(4) Drain Well: In order to cause counter current at the moment 
Drain Valye opens, it is necessary to install Drain Well. Also, 
in order to take the air, make the water level of drain well 
equal to red line marked on discharging mouth. 
(5) Discharging Water: It may be drained out into well or culvert 
or any other suitable equipment. 
In almost all developing countries in the world, there are 
determined efforts to achieve material economic progress 
and emphasis is being carried out to induce a shift in the 
structural pattern of the economy from one basically 
agricultural to one that is agro-industrial in character 
to assure an increasing level of national production 
‘within the framework of economic and social stability 
which does not require much of foreign exchange to 
insure its growth. That is very important to select such 
industries which do not need foreign exchange in obtaining 
raw materials. 
The high cost of living in the urban areas, nevertheless 
reduces the workers’ real income. Money-incomes in the 
rural areas is lower than those in cities but the cost of 
living is equally lower compared with urban living. 
The full development of cottage industry in the rural areas, 
can provide additional forms of incomes on the part of 
rural families, which could reduce the influx of 
population to cities in quest for employemnt. This 
ultimately would minimize social problem in urban centers. 
The tools listed in this catalog are absolutely fascinating. 
One spends hours studying specifications, diagrams and photos 
of CeCoCo “making” machines. (In the Wire Products section, 
for instance, one finds Paper Pin Making Machine, Staple 
Pin Making Machine, Hair Pin Making Machine, Safety 
Pin Making Machine, Snap Button Making Machine, Nail 
Making Machine, Barbed Wire Making Machine, Chain 
Making Machine, Zip-Fastener Making Machine, Etc.) 
Guide Book for Rural Cottage 
and Small and Medium Scale Industries 
158 pp. 
CeCoCo was established in 1916, but refers to an association 
$10.00 airmail 
with a manufacturer of animal-drawn farming implements 
since 1863. They maintain an exhibition and demonstration 
$7.00 seamail 
farm center at Ibaraki. On the back cover of their guide 
eek 
book one sees photos of dignataries from all countries of 
iy ane = 
the world visiting CeCoCo center. 
tbaraki City 
[Su 
dent 
evi 
Osaka Pref. 
ggested 
and 
Reviewed by Ken Kern] 
JAPAN 
