_-——s«éBurrris-Meyer 
and Cole 
a 
he 
1938;66; 473pp. 
t sees 
af 
tr 
$15.00 postpaid 
we built a good part 
at’s 
in this book, 
lats, 
traps, platforms, risers, — 
~ 
doorways, windows, parallels, 
artables, machineguns, crossbows . . . 
the standard procedures, tools, and tricks 
_ for the grand illusion are here. 
maybe someone can use this book, 
and a little soul 
— 
nd breathe some life back into the theatre, 
ring it out into the streets. 
FOR THE. 
THEATRE 
HAROLD BURRIS-MEYER 
AND EDWARD C. 
Scenery 
for the Theatre 
from: 
Little, Brown and Company 
200 West Street 
Waltham, Massachusetts 02154 
Fig. VIII-36. 
A cantilevered balcony 
1. Loose pin hinge 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
_ Towards a Poor Theatre 
uf ‘The strongest work in theater lately is Jerzy Grotowski’s. 
we want a theatre group whose daily bread is this kind of work—— 
is his book. Social yoga, with balls. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Robert Frank] . 
Towards a Poor Theatre 
Jerzy Grotowski 
1968; 262 pp. 
$2.45 postpaid 
Towards a 
; 
from: 
PoorTheatre 
Simon & Schuster, Inc. 
Gs 
: 
630 Fifth Avenue 
Grotowski 
New York, N. Y. 10020 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
and. rough excess, profanation and outrageous sacrilege reveals 
mself by casting off his everyday mask, he makes it possible for 
spectator to undertake a similar process of self-penetration. 
If 
then we must follow a special method of research and training. 
ee 
- 
e 
M 
5 
a, 
. 
Mes 
1 
3 
~ When. | take sides against half-heartedness, mediocrity and the easy- 
4 
come-easy-go attitude which takes everything for granted, it is simply 
use we must create things which are firmly orientated towards 
Nite ther light or darkness. But we must remember that around that 
which 
is luminous within us, there exists a shroud of darkness which 
an penetrate but not annihilate. 
Cor ‘act is one of the most essential things. Often when an actor 
‘spi peaks of contact, or thinks of contact, he believes that it means 
‘0 gaze fixedly. But this is not contact. 
It is only a position, a 
n. Contact is not staring, it is to see. Now | am in contact 
ou, | see which of you is against me. | see one person who 
ndifferent, another who listens with some interest and someone 
10 smiles. All this changes my actions; it is contact, and it forces 
change my way of acting. 
the actor, by setting himself a challenge publicly challenges others, 
type of joinery. The materials and technique of the woodworker are 
adapted and other techniques and materials introduced for the manu- 
facture of structures which differ from the ordinary product of the 
carpentry shop, cabinet shop, or woodworking mill. The nature and 
uses of scenery impose requirements which make scene construction 
a craft by itself with which the ordinary carpenter or canibet maker 
is unfamiliar. 
Scene carpentry differs from other forms of carpentry and cabinet- 
work in several respects: 1. The objects built must be demountable 
and portable, and yet when assembled they must show no evidence 
of 
joining. 2. Scenery is built for use during a short period of time, 
as compared with furniture, dwellings, etc. 3. Scenery presents only 
one finished side or face to the audience. 4. Scenery is never seen 
or examined at close range. 
Scenery which has to be demountable and portable must be built 
in pieces which fit neatly together and which are strong enough 
to withstand intermittent and often rough handling. The frames 
must hold their shapes rigidly so that the fit is assured each time 
they are assembled. There can be no cutting to fit when the scenery 
reaches the stage. Each piece must be constructed exactly to size 
and shape as planned. Rebuilding of scenery, when it reaches the 
stage, is costly. 
The fact that scenery is used for a shorter period of time than other 
carpentered objects allows the use of lumber of smaller cross section 
than is generally used in weight-bearing structures, since deterior- 
ation and constant use do not enter into the determination of the 
safety factors. For the same reasons and for reasons of workability, 
softwoods are used in scene carpentry, where hardwoods would be 
used in ordinary carpentry and cabinetwork. 
Akropolis: Masks created solely by the facial muscles (Zygmunt Molik, Zbigniew Cynkutis, Rena 
Mirecka). Photo: Teatr-Laboratorium. 
constantly reaffirmed in every one of their actions. 
Characteristics of the Craft. Scene construction is chiefly a specialized 
The costumes are bags full of holes covering naked bodies. The 
holes are lined with material which suggests torn flesh; through 
the holes one looks directly into a torn body. Heavy wooden 
shoes for the feet; for the heads, anonymous berets. This is a 
Poetic version of the camp uniform. Through their similarity the 
costumes rob men of their personality, erase the distinctive signs 
which indicate sex, age, and social class. The actors become com- 
pletely identical beings. They are nothing but tortured bodies. 
The inmates are the protagonists and, in the name of a higher, un- 
written law, they are their own torturers. The merciless conditions 
of the extermination camp constitute the milieu of their lives. 
Their work crushes them with its size and its futility; rhythmical 
signals are given by the guards; the inmates call out in screams. 
But the struggle for the right to vegetate and to love goes on at 
its everyday pace. At each command the human wrecks, barely 
alive, stand up erect like well-disciplined soldiers. The throbbing 
rhythm of the play underscores the building of the new civilization; 
the work expresses the inmate's stubborn will to live, which is 
vu. Tight pin hinges 
1. Housed 
There is one absolute rule 
Bodily activity comes first, and then 
vocal expression. 
Most actors work 
in the opposite order. 
First you bang on the table and 
afterwards you shout! 
The vocal process cannot be free with- 
out a well functioning larynx. The 
larynx must first be relaxed, and then 
the chin and jaws. 
If the larynx does not relax and open, 
you must try to find a way to make it 
do so. That is why | asked the third 
pupil to stand on his head. 
If he does 
this, and at the same time speaks, 
shouts or sings, there is a good chance 
that the larynx will open. 
i 
