Understanding 
Foundations 
Dime: 
Fund 
J. Richard 
Taft 
es Book Co. 
_ Princeton Road 
} a Hightstown, New Jersey 08520 
Manchester Road 
_ Manchester, Missouri 63062 
8171 Redwood Highway 
Novato, Ca. 94947 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
ee Amateurs, especially, are guilty of this. But professionals, 
bee ~who should know better, are offenders too. 
aac ' 
e 
: ee who has ever applied or is about to apply toa foundation 
_ for a grant wonders whether there is some magic formula for a 
"successful application. 
If there is one, it is simpticity. 
_ The desks of foundation officials around the country are piled high 
we 
> with a applications characterized by verbosity, pomposity, and 
- vagueness. Make your application short, simple, and clear, and it 
{ will stand out. 
J 
Most foundations have no standard form which applicants fill out. 
A good approach is a simple letter of one or two pages (even the 
iS _ most complex subjects can be boiled down to this length) or a 
short Proposal accompanied by a covering letter of introduction. 
“G Sometimes it is worth calling a foundation first to discuss your 
: 
Reciect betore going to the trouble of preparing a proposal. 
< 
Don’ them and haw on money. State figures and try to stick with 
meme, 
them. If you need staff, you will need to pay them. How much? 
If you need office space and equipment, check out all costs before 
going to the foundation. 
\f materials, transportation, or other items 
are involved, include them. If it is a one-time grant, say so. 
If not, 
__ make it a two-year, or three-year, or more, request. Foundation 
officials are money handlers and, as such, are most concerned with 
sound fiscal management. They cite poor financial administration 
“as: a key factor in grants rejection. 
‘ 
(feo, 
Every applicant wonders whether or not he should include endorse- 
ments in his proposal. By all means, if there are reputable people 
ee in the field who are familiar with your work, the organization, and 
__ 
its programs, endorsements are valuable. 
Foundations have a high 
a regard for expertise. The backing of respected people puts a useful 
stamp of approval’on any project. 
. 
__ 
After making your proposal or writing your letter, don’t expect 
— quick response. Most foundations are extremely busy and take a 
good deal of time before responding to letters or applications. Cer- 
ene tainly do not expect an early grant. Foundations generally have 
a board meetings several times a year, at which time those proposals 
ths which have passed the scrutiny of the executive director, the pro- 
= 
ram administrator, or the person concerned with applications, are 
eipasasted It is infrequent that an applicant will receive funds in 
less than six months’ time after his application. 
The Foundation Directory 
The reference book of foundations. Gives addresses, 
- finances, officers, purposes and activities. 
Foundations 
are listed by state, which is intelligent, since grants are 
af ie 
usually given locally. 
£ 
The Foundation Directory 
U 
_, 
Marianna O. Lewis, Ed. 
“1967; 1198 pp. 
$12.00 postpaid 
from: 
Russell Sage Foundation 
| 
230 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10017 
Federal Domestic Assistance 
The Catalog is-a guide to Federal Programs. /t describes 
the purpose, eligibility requirements for an incredible 
variety of aids, along with the ‘how-to-apply.” 
| recommend it as a wishbook and as a too/. For the surprise 
is that many of the aids exactly fit the needs of the new 
communities (loans for home industries, for example, pp 
27-28) and are specifically open to non-profit groups or 
low-income persons, Urban groups will find similar luck, 1 
think, in linking their goals to an existing program. 
[Suggested and Reviewed by Richard R. Reed] 
The cost isnow$6.00 (prepaid) and includes a subscription 
service. The new CoFDA comes in a big plastic binder 
(loose leaf) and has a lot of information that was not included 
in previous catalogs (e.g. current appropriations, better 
retrieval and the subscription is supposed to provide updating 
of the information—justification for the binder, | suppose). 
[Re-reviewed by Keith R. Pryor] 
Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance 
$6.00 lyr 
from: 
Superintendent of Documents 
U.S. Government Printing Office 
Washington, D.C, 20402 
Many foundations have accepted the doctrine that their limited 
funds should be used chiefly as the venture capital of philanthropy, 
to be spent in enterprises requiring risk and foresight, not likely 
to be supported by government or private individuals. 
In their 
fields of special interest they prefer to aid research, designed to 
push forward the frontiers of knowledge, or pilot demonstrations, 
resulting in improved procedures apt to be widely copied. 
Support for current programs, if it comes at all from foundations, 
must usually be sought from the smaller organizations, and 
especially those located in the area of the agency, well acquainted 
with its personnel and its needs. Most small foundations, and some 
larger ones, restrict their grants to the local community, or state. 
Immense variety exists; the interests and limitations of each foun- 
dation need to be examined before it is approached. 
Where there is evidence that the applicant has not bothered to find 
out the field of interest of the foundation, or has made a general 
mailing, the cost of even a formal declination is scarcely warranted; 
wastebaskets are available in any required size. 
e 
Sample listing: 
San Francisco Foundation, The 
351 California Street 
San Francisco, California 94104 
Community foundation established in 1948 in California by 
resolution and declaration of trust. 
Purpose and Activities: 
Grants principally for welfare and welfare 
planning, hospitals, education, health and mental health, culture 
and the arts, and conservation in the San Francisco area unless 
otherwise specified by donors. Report published annually. 
Financial Data (year ended 30 June 1965): Active capital, $6,736,824 
(L); gifts received, $686,287; expenditures, $681,325, including 
$639,793 in grants. 
Officer: John R. May, Executive Director and Secretary. 
Distribution Committee: 
S. Clark Beise, Chairman; Daniel E. 
Koshland, William H. Orrick, Jr., Vice-Chairmen; William R. 
Hewlett, Treasurer; Christian de Guigne, Mrs. Alfred McLaughlin, 
Emmett G. Solomon. 
Trustees: 
Bank of America, The Bank of California, Common- 
wealth National Bank of San Francisco, Crocker-Citizens National 
Bank, First Western Bank and Trust Company, Golden Gate 
National Bank, The Hibernia Bank, Pacific National Bank of San 
Francisco, United California Bank, Wells Fargo Bank. 
rai 
Government Publications 
This paperback it titled Over 2000 Free 
Publications: which /s sort of true, but 
mainly gross boostering. Skip that. The 
book is a good, recent, cheap compendium 
of information easily available from the 
Government—inexpensive sometimes 
practical sometimes trivial sometimes 
precisely what you need for an important 
task, 
—SB 
[Suggested by Michael Rosenthal] 
Over 2000 Free Publications 
Frederic O'Hara 
OCmC «G1» Oe 
1968; 352 pp. 
a - VER = 
$.95 postpaid 
2000 
Ae? 
from: 
PAR EEY 
PUBLICATIONS ) 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
or 
$1 .15 postpaid 
from: 
The New American Library 
O.P. Box 2310 
Grand Central Station 
New York, New York 10017 
eG 
7 Os Fan su SL 
pemgriet am U5 Government 
agencors 
coped 
itd FREDORE 
 HARA 
Making Household Fabrics Flame Resistant 
(rev. ad 1963). L454 
Tells how household fabrics may be made flame-resistant by 
treating them in the home with various flame-retardant 
solutions. Describes how to prepare and apply these solutions. 
The Use of Sawdust for Mulches and Soil Improvement (1951). 
(Circular 891). 15 cents. For sale only. 
Hepatitis (rev. ed. 1966). PHS Publication no. 446. 
Hepatitis (1967). Unnumbered PHS fact sheet. 
Wood-Frame House Construction (1955). AH73. 65 cents. For sale 
only. Textbook for house builder, from foundation to roof. 
Solar-Type Farm Cottage, Plan No 7148 (1965). M1001. 
A-frame Cabins, Farm Building Plan Nos. 5964 5965 (1964) M981. 
Farmstead Sewage and Refuse Disposal (1963). AB274. All about 
septic-tank systems. Discussion of other refuse-disposal methods. 
Recipes for Quantity Service (1958). HESSS. $2.50. For sale 
only. O.P. Directions for quantities for twenty-five, fifty, or 
one hundred portions. 
Government Printing Office 
O'Hara doesn’t begin to list all 
of what's available from the GPO. If 
You’re really interested in a particular area, 
you might as well get the FREE list of 
publications in that area. Or you can get 
the FREE biweekly list of “Selected U.S. 
Government Publications.” Or, for totality, 
for $6, the “Monthly Catalog of U.S. 
Government Publications.” 
—SB 
from: 
Superintendent of Documents 
U.S. Government Printing Office 
Washington, D.C. 20402 
On Free Money 
From my limited experience, the realm of foundations and 
grants is one of the most cynical in the American economy. 
Generally when you approach a foundtation they are friendly 
and half-receptive. They consider your project promising if 
a little naive, and they“d like to you write up a proposal on 
it. You spend a month learning how to write proposals and 
a month writing this one. They keep it six months. Your 
idea has died of dry rot. Then they request that you re-write 
the proposal to accommodate (whatever) and it might go 
through next time the board meets. Do this three times, 
and you have died of dry rot. 
Most actual grants | know of were ini tiated by the donors, 
not the donees. The most effective way to get grant money 
is to be Highly Visible. 
! don’t know why foundations and government money is so 
often toxic to projects. Maybe because the process becomes 
so easily dishonest. Do me no favors, and I'll tell you no 
lies. Or is it the belief that there’s such a thing as a free 
lunch that is the root lie? 
: 
