ae 
_ Biology and the Future of Man 
Where we are today technologically (and thus politically) 
is largely the product of several specific scientific 
revolutions that gathered steam early in the century—most 
notably mass medicine, nuclear physics, and investigation 
of materials. Since World War || the Information Sciences 
(computers, cybernetics, organization theory) have wrought 
considerable havoc and promise. Now we’re in for biology, 
says everybody, probably right. Molecular biology, already 
mature, has only begun to hit the fan. Ecology, though 
in great demand, has short supply so far. The glamour /ight, 
long in molecular biology, may now be migrating into 
brain science, the very heart of darkness. Still waiting for 
systematic study is the big version of brain science. The 
participation of consciousness in evolution. 
ie: 
This book probably supports few of my 
assertions above. It 
Be 
is an authoritative up-to-the-year report on the state of 
biology by the leading biologists, with emphasis on 
Unanswered questions and promising leads and possible 
= 
impact of all this on society in the near future. [t’s a 
‘ 
heavy book, implying no lightsome future. Technology 
marches on, over you or through you, take your choice. 
=! 
—SB 
. 
| OLOGY 
i 
THE FUTURE 
ie 
mo 
‘ 
ORIN 
iol 
{M 
rea of Non 
we etn 
‘ 
1970; 936pp. 
75 
7 
$12.50 postpaid 
}s 
from: 
if 
s 
Oxford University Press 
5 
200 Madison Avenue 
| s 
New York, New York 10016 
4 is 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
3 
OQ 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 1600 
Date 
Figure 20-2. World Population Growth (Projected with 
assumption of constant fertility levels and declining 
mortality). 
e 
... any desired number of genetic twins could be produced. It 
would require the collection of unfertilized eggs from the oviducts 
» of many women, removal of the egg nuclei, and replacement by 
the nuclei of body cells of the chosen man or woman. This would 
be followed by return 
of the eggs to the uteri of women who then 
would undergo normal pregnancies. In this way one could produce 
multiple identical copies of any person judged admirable. 
re 
e 
Z 
it 
Ai the present moment of extremely dangerous population growth, 
; 
social pressures are best directed to lower reproduction, in general, 
without qualitative considerations. But one day, when populations 
are stable, world peace is the norm, and man’s social and political 
institutions are sufficiently mature to assure that biological 
understanding will not be utilized to perpetuate injustice or 
Strengthen dictatorship but, rather, to expand human potential, 
man will be free to guide his own evolutionary destiny... Man’s 
_ view of himself has undergone many changes. From a unique 
Position in the universe, the Copernican revolution reduced him to 
an inhabitant of one of many planets. From a unique position 
among the millions of other species which evolved from one another. 
Yet, Homo sapiens has overcome the limitations of his origin. 
He controls the vast energies of the atomic nucleus, moves across 
his planet at speeds barely below escape velocity, and can escape 
_ when he so wills. He communicates with his fellows at the 
speed of light, extends the powers of his brain with those of the 
digital computer, and influences the numbers and genetic 
constitution of virtually all other living species. Now he can guide 
his own evolution. In him, Nature has reached beyond the hard 
_ regularities of physical phenomena. Homo sapiens, the creation of 
Nature, has transcended her. From a product of circumstances, he 
has risen to responsibility. At last, he is Man. May he behave so! 
Schematic diagram of the annual population cycle of a small 
mammal, conceived as controlled by and controlling the brain- 
Pituitary-adrenal-gonad system. (From Edward S. Deevey, in 
Bresler, J.B., Environment of Man, Addison-Wesley, 1968) 
* 
The Book of Tea 
this book is not just about tea. 
=—J.D. 
The Book of Tea 
Kakuzo Okakura 
1964; 76pp. 
$1 postpaid 
from: 
Dover Publications 
180 Verick Street 
New York, N.Y. 10014 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Tea began as a medicine and grew into a beverage. In China, in the 
eighth century, it entered the realm of poetry as one of the polite 
amusements. The fifteenth century saw Japan ennoble it into a 
religion of aestheticism,—Teasim. Teaism is a cult founded on the 
adoration of the beautiful among the sordid facts of everyday 
existence. It inculcates purity and harmony, the mystery of 
mutual charity, the romanticism of the social order. It is 
essentially 
aworship of the Imperfect, as it is a tender attempt to 
accomplish something possible in this impossible thing we know as 
life, 
The Philosophy of Tea is not mere aestheticism in the ordinary 
acceptance of the term, for it expresses conjointly with ethics 
and religion our whole point of view about man and nature. It is 
hygiene, for it enforces cleanliness; it is economics, for it shows 
comfort in simplicity rather than in the complex and costly; it is 
moral geometry, inasmuch as it defines our sense of proportion to 
the universe. It represents the true spirit of Eastern democracy by 
making all its votaries aristocrats in taste. 
When will the West understand, or try to understand, the East? We 
Asiatics are often appalled by the curious web of facts and fancies 
which has been woven concerning us. We are pictured as living 
on the perfume of the lotus, if not on mice and cockroaches. It is 
either impotent fanaticism or else abject voluptuousness. Indian 
spirituality has been|derided as ignorance, Chinese sobriety as 
stupidity, Japanese patriotism as the result of fatalism. It has 
been said that we are less sensible to pain and wounds on account 
of the callousness of our nervous organization! 
Why not amuse yourselves at our expense? Asia returns the 
compliment. There would be further food for merriment if you 
were to know all that we have imagined and written about you. 
All the glamour of the perspective is there, all the unconscious 
homage of wonder, all the silent resentment of the new and 
undefined. You have been loaded with virtues too refined to be 
envied and accused of crimes too picturesque to be condemned. 
Our writers in the past,—the wise men who knew,—informed us that 
you had busy tails somewhere hidden in your garments, and often 
dined off a fricasse of newborn babes! Nay, we had something 
worse against you: we used to think you the most impracticable 
people on the earth, for you were said to preach what you never 
practised. 
In joy or sadness, flowers are our constant friends. We eat, drink, 
sing, dance, and flirt with them. We wed and christen with flowers. 
We dare not die without them. We have worshipped with the lily, 
we have meditated with the lotus, we have charged in battle 
array with the rose and the chrysanthemum. We have even 
attempted to speak in the language of flowers. How could we live 
without them? It frightens one to conceive of a world bereft of 
their presence. What solace do they not bring to the bedside of 
the sick, what a light of bliss to the darkness of weary spirits? 
Their serene tenderness restores to us our waning confidence in the 
universe even as the intent gaze of a beautiful child recalls our lost 
hopes. When we are laid low in the dust it is thye who linger in 
sorrow over our graves. 
Sad as it is, we cannot conceal the fact that in spite of our 
companionship with flowers we have not risen very far above the 
brute. Scratch the sheepskin and the wolf within us will soon show 
his teeth. 1t has been said that man at ten is an animal, at twenty 
a lunatic, at thirty a failure, at forty a fraud, and at fifty a criminal. 
Perhaps he becomes a criminal because he has never ceased to be 
an animal. Nothing is real to us but hunger, nothing sacred except 
our own desires. Shrine after shrine has crumbled before our eyes; 
but one altar forever is preserved, that whereon we burn incense to 
the Supreme idol,—ourselves. Our god is great, and money is his 
Prophet! We devastate nature in order to make sacrifice to him. We 
boast that we have conquered Matter and forget that it is Matter 
that has enslaved us. What atrocities do we not perpetrate in 
the name of culture and refinement! 
Winter 
Diminished 
| Fetal and juvenile deaths 
Fighting: Male sterility 
sexuality | 
Social pathology. 
+d 
| Poor maternalcare 
*« 
Ideas 
i started out reviewing husserl’s system 
by saying it was exciting, revolutionary, 
ecstatic, and so forth, then, having left 
for a few moments’ bathroom meditation, 
came back to find that pam had scribbled 
“It’s hard to hustle Husserl” across the 
top of the page. 
she is correct. it is hard to hustle husser!, 
like its hard to fondle fuller, or cuddle kant, 
but if you have a /ittle time, and would like 
to learn a methodology to plug your intuition 
into, then here’s your boy. 
husserl was the teacher of both sartre and 
heidegger, that should give you some 
idea of the complexities involved. 
Ideas: General Introduction to 
Pure Phenomenology 
Edmund Husserl 
1962; 446 pp. 
$1 -50 postpaid 
from: 
Collier-Macmillan Distributing 
866 Third Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
It is true that a certain difficulty attaches to all disciplines that 
are referred back upon themselves, and in this respect that the 
first introduction to them, as also the first serious inquiry into 
their import, must operate with certain accessories of method 
which they have first in the sequel to shape in a scientifically 
adequate way. Without preliminary and preparatory considera- 
tions both of matter and method, the sketch of a new science 
could never be outlined. But the concepts and the other methodic 
elements with which psychology, phenomenology, and so forth, 
in their beginnings, operate in such preparatory treatises, are 
themselves psychological, phenomenological, and so forth, and 
first acquire their scientific impress within the system of the 
science already grounded. 
Obviously no really serious doubts which might hinder the real 
development of such sciences and of phenomenology in particular 
need disturb us in this direction. If it figures as a science within the 
limits of mere immediate intuition, a pure “descriptive” science of 
Essential Being, the general nature of its procedure is given in 
advance as something that needs no further explanation. It has to 
place before its own eyes as instances certain pure conscious 
events, to bring these to complete clearness, and within this 
zone of clearness to subject them to analysis and the apprehension 
of their essence, to follow up the essential connexions that can 
be clearly understood, to grasp what is momentarily perceived 
in faithful conceptual expressions, of which the meaning is 
prescribed purely by the object perceived or in some way 
transparently understood. If this procedure in its unsophisticated 
form serves at first only to make one at home in a new domain, 
to practise seeing, apprehending, analysing generally within it, 
and to encourage some acquaintance with its data, scientific 
reflection upon the essential nature of the procedure itself, upon 
the essential nature of the types of presentation which play their 
part within it, upon essence, performance, conditions of complete 
clearness and insight, as well as of completely true and steady 
conceptual expression, and more of the same kind, undertakes the 
function of a general and logically rigorous methodic grounding. 
Followed up deliberately, it takes on the character and rank of 
scientific method; and this, in any given case, in the application 
of rigorously formulated methodic standards, permits of the 
Practice of a limiting and improving criticism. The essential 
relation of phenomenology to its own self here reveals itself in 
this, that what there in methodic reflexion under the rubrics: 
clearness, insight, expression, and the like, is considered and 
established, itself belongs on its own side to the phenomenological 
domain, that all the reflexive analyses are phenomenological analyses 
of the essential nature of things, and the methodological insights 
obtained in respect of their establishment come under the very 
norms which they formulate. Thus it must be possible through 
fresh reflexions to convince oneself 
on every occasion that 
statements in the methodological propositions can be given with 
complete clearness, that the concepts utilized really and truly 
answer to what is given, and so forth. 
