ature 
chlorine generator, turns table salt 
probably works better than halazone. 
~jd 
Drinkit 
$10.00 postpaid (information free) 
from: 
| 
Functional Items and Designs 
Box 7968 
Palo Alto, California 94305 
_ pre 
in FORM 
_one of the worst problems that we 
_ 
(the MOVEMENT if you prefer) 
‘ 
__ (the Back-To-The-Land Movement, if you prefer) 
have is the cost of land 
if you want to stay here 
_ (the United States of America) 
___ land on Oahu is selling for five bucks 
a square foot, 
in small pieces, 
if you are lucky. 
__preinform gets past that bother 
by advocating that we forget that 
and, — 
just go live somewhere, 
_ bit by bit, 
: 
dig a tunnel, 
get ready ta move soon, 
_ figure on moving soon, 
forget, 
4 
use, 
and live, 
freely. 
its kinda hard to say 
: if these people will be there, 
but if they are: 
-~jd 
re 
Pin FORM 
_ four issues: $2.00 
from: 
Preform 
Box 141 
Glendale, California 91209 
jat might be of some use to the dysentery- 
teria zapping chlorine. battery powered, kindof 
The Survival Book | 
if you really think that you will ever be 
caught in the desert jungle ice or shit 
with a book for reference, then 
this is the one to cover with steel 
and carry next to your heart. 
—jd 
The Survival Book 
Paul Nesbitt, 
Alonzo Pond, 
William Allen 
1959, 338 pp. 
$1 95 postpaid 
from: 
Funk and Wagnall’s 
380 Madison Avenue 
; New York, New York 10017 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Fig. 4.8. The Prusik Knot. 
About 10 days ago we were surprised by four bludgies—three forest 
rangers and a Ventura County deputy sheriff—while excavating 
our first (attempted) shelter in Los Padres forest. 
The day before, it seems, while we were away, Our area was 
intensively searched for a lost boy. The bludgies discovered our 
camper, parked deep in the woods. They also noticed we had 
camouflaged our trails, which further aroused their curiosity. 
They did not (then) discover our shelter site, 200 yards away, 
which was covered and adequately concealed. 
(Bludgy—rhymes with pudgy—is short for bludgeoneer, was coined 
by Roberta, who doesn’t believe that the name of a useful, 
inoffensive animal (pig) should be an appellation for usually 
offensive beasts.) 
The next morning the bludgies came again to the camper. We 
were both away from it but, unfortunately, our digging sounds— 
hammer on digging bar—were audible; we were not yet far under- 
ground and so were working with the hatch cover off. 
When asked, | explained that the hole was for mineral exploration. (As 
it turns out, one can’t file a claim until one finds minerals of value.) 
But with our well-crafted entrance-way in place, complete with 
electric wires, vent pipes and a hatch cover festooned with a 
bush and surface debris, they didn’t believe me. 
When asked about our concealed trails, | said something like, 
“never know what people will come wandering through the forest. 
If they find camper tracks they will follow them, and my wife 
might be at the camper alone... ‘’ To this one of the bludgies 
replied, sardonically, ‘Yeah, never know what kind of people 
you will meet in the forest.”” 
Had they arrested us, apparently the only charges they could have 
made were for camping outside of authorized campgrounds and 
cutting a few tree. branches. Our hole was apparantly not clearly 
illegal. 
This brings up an interesting question: Why didn’t they arrest us? 
Certainly our behavior was “suspicious.” If it had been up to the 
deputy sheriff—an extremely uptight, paranoid type—l| suspect 
we would have been busted—for further investigation if nothing else. 
But the forest fuzz were not eager to press charges. Of course we 
were not doing anything especially henious in .their eyes (our 
camp site was clean and neat—no trash strewn around, no camp-fire 
remains, etc.). Also, perhaps, they guessed part of the truth about 
our hole and were semi-sympathetic. But the main reason, | believe, 
is their own vulnerability. They really can‘t control ‘‘their’’ forest 
and some of them realize it. Their installations and equipment are 
often “vandalized’’ even now. And the more they hassle ‘‘the 
public” for inconsequential infractions of their rules the more 
“vandalism” they must expect. (It wouldn't be difficult to destroy 
one of their $50,000 helicopters, for example.) 
sand dunes inthe Gobi Desert 
Swow cave shelter 
Construction of thatch shelter 
Simple parachute cloth shelter 
We returned to our site two days later and salvaged our entrance-way. 
So our only losses were in time—about three weeks total spent 
scouting, preparing squat-spot and digging. 
Some sheep-person might comment: ‘You lost three weeks of your 
time. And in three weeks | can earn the money to pay property taxes. 
So how are you freer than |?” Of course the “‘land owner” may 
still be hassled. (He probably needs a special permit to legally 
build something underground on his “‘own” property.) But, 
more important, we learned from our experience. We are 
improving our techniques; gaining competence and confidence. Next 
time we won't be such easy prey. What does the “land owner” 
gain from his taxes? Only the realization—highly destructive of his 
self-esteem—that he is rewarding his oppressors, paying for his 
further enslavement. 
. 
So what have we learned? Our loss was directly due to an unlikely 
coincidence. Had the search happened two weeks earlier we wouldn't 
have been around; had it happened two weeks later we would have been 
working with cover in place and warning devices operational, and with 
camper moved out of the area. But also, in hindsight, we can 
identify some mistakes: 
We failed to check the area for strange footprints upon our return. 
We used two-phase resin paint which requires a week of heat-treatment. 
This caused us to bring the camper to a squat-spot close to the 
site. (The entrance-way was too heavy to pack a long distance; an 
alternate error.) Originally we had planned to squat a mile or 
more from our shelter site. 
We should have dug with cover in place as soon as our entrance-way was 
installed, even though this cramped our working. 
We should have spent more time (away from site) designing/building 
a lighter, more-quickly-installable entrance-way. 
But this incident has also prompted a searching re-evalutaion of 
motorized nomadism in general. This is the first time in my two-and- 
one-half years of living aboard that | have been 
hassled while parked in a well-prepared squat-spot. While vehicle 
squat-spots are relatively secure (compared, at least, to ‘‘conventional’’ 
living accomodations), they are not so safe that we feel fully 
free. If | hadn’t had a driver's license we probably would have 
‘ 
been busted. (If you have to get a permit from the Man “‘to be free,”’ 
\ 
you ain't free.) 
. 
ANT 
