Fu/Return (The Turning Point) 
_» above K'UN THE RECEPTIVE, EARTH 
oe cee 
below CHEN THE AROUSING, THUNDER 
— The idea of a turning point arises from the fact that after the 
Py dark lines have pushed all of the light lines upward and out of 
i 
the hexagram, another light line enters the hexagram from below. 
ce The time of darkness is past. The winter solstice brings the 
victory of light. This hexagram 
is linked with the eleventh 
month, the month of the solstice (December-January). 
THE JUDGMENT 
RETURN. Success. 
Going out and coming in without error. 
___—‘ Friends come without blame. 
_ 
To and fro’goes the waya 
On the seventh day comes return. 
: 
{t furthers one to have somewhere to go 
* | 
After a time of decay comes the turning point. The powerful light 
+ _ that has been banished returns. There is movement, but it is not 
_ brought about by force. The upper trigram K’un is characterized 
by 
devotion; thus the movement is natural, arising spontaneously. 
_ For this reason the transformation of the old becomes easy. The 
_old is discarded and the new is introduced. Both measures accord with 
the time; therefore no harm results. Societies of people sharing the 
_ same views are formed. But since these groups come toegther in 
full public knowledge and are in harmony with the time, all” 
selfish ‘separatist tendencies are excluded, and no mistake is made. 
The idea of RETURN is based on the course of nature. The movement 
is cyclic, and the course completes itself. Therefore it is not necessary 
to hasten anything artificially. Everything comes of itself at the 
“appointed time. This is the meaning of heaven and earth. 
All movements are accomplished in six stages, and the seventh 
brings return. Thus the winter solstice, with which the decline 
_ of the year begins, comes in the seventh month after the summer 
=» 
__ solstice; so too sunrise comes in the seventh double hour after 
sunset. Therefore seven in the number of the young light, and 
it arises when six, the number of the great darkness, is increased 
by one. In this way the state of rest gives place to movement. 
SQUARE SUN SQUARE MOON 
-“< 
hea This book is about feeling, feeling mountains, feeling breath, 
feeling sun, feeling touch, feeling toes: yoga words. A book to 
_ be read to children and by those who envy children. Consists 
of Paul Reps’ impressionistic portrait of the places he visits 
in the far east: Tahiti, Japan, Samoa, China, Fiji, plus Norway 
and Sweden. Pretty stoned places in themselves. Reps 
MG observations are about the people, spiritual things, life pe 
_ death ways, and teaching. Subtitles of essays such as: 
- Chinese method of long life,” “How to be happy pedis 
grown up.” 
[Suggested by Michael Howden. 
> 
Reviewed by D. Smith] 
Square Sun, Square Moon 
Paul Reps 
1967, 70; 100 pp- 
$2 50 postpaid 
from: 
Charles F. Tuttle Co. 
28 South Main Street 
Rutland, Vermont 05701 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The I Chi 
; 
Translated by Richard Wilhelm, C 
Cary F. Regi 
? B. ee 740 pp. 
. 
lle 
or 
$6.00 postpaid 
$7.50 postpaid 
from: 
from: 
Shambala Booksellers 
2482 Telegraph Avenue 
Berkeley, California 94704 
Princeton University Press 
Princeton, New Jersey 08540 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
THE IMAGE 
Thunder within the earth: 
The image of THE TURNING POINT. 
Thus the kings of antiquity closed the passes 
At the time of solstice. 
Merchants 
and strangers did not go about, 
And the ruler 
, 
Did not travel through the provinces. 
The winter solstice has always been celebrated in China as the 
resting time of the year—a custom that survives in the time of 
rest observed at the new year, In winter the life energy, symbolized 
by thunder, the Arousing, is still underground. Movement is just 
at its beginning; therefore it must be strengthened by rest, so that 
it will not be dissipated by being used :prematurely. This principle, 
i.e., of allowing energy that is renewing itself to be reinforced by 
rest, applies to all similar situations. The return of health after 
illness, the return of understanding after an estrangement: everything 
must be treated tenderly and with care at the beginning, so that 
the return may lead to a flowering. 
THE LINES 
Six in the second place means: 
Quiet return. Good fortune. 
-Return always calls for a decision and is an act of self-mastery. 
It is made easier if a man is in good company. If he can bring 
himself to put aside pride and follow the example of good men, 
good fortune results. 
Six in the third place means: 
Repeated return. Danger. No blame. 
There are people of a certain inner instability who feel a constant 
urge to reverse themselves. There is danger in continually deserting 
the good because of uncontrolled desires, then turning back to it 
again because of a better resolution. However, since this does not 
lead to habituation in evil, a general inclination to overcome the 
defect is not wholly excluded. 
“Draw this line,’ they have been told previously, ‘‘only as you feel 
it to be the most worthwhile act of your life.”” 
“Draw it with your breath.” 
“The line flows from brush with outbreath, although variations of 
it change as breath changes.” 
“Let the line come from and go on into infinity off the tip of the 
brush.” 
“\t is less drawn than experienced.” 
“Not only brush, hand, arm, but heart and mind draw it. al 
Japanese, one word, kokoro, stands for both heart and mind. 
“Your line, not aiming at perfection, never ends.” 
“Let center draw through you.” 
The Samoan taxi driver in Honolulu sang softly along the ocean. 
“Why are you folks so sweet-natured?” | asked him. 
“We eat fish instead of meat. We gather poi wild. We have some fresh 
vegetables. We don’t have to work for anyone. We never worry that 
we should be doing this or that. We are all like brothers and sisters. 
We can live on the milk and meat of those coconuts. We fish and 
swim and enjoy life. Why shouldn't we be happy?” 
it is more. It is Shinto magic. Today even the performers do not 
comprehend it. They just do it—in resplendent costumes, with 
stately movements, with dignity. They show ushowto respect 
movement itself. 
From the first slow whine of a wind instrument with its reeds 
pointed heavenward, then the flute sound, the boom of a large 
drum decorated with a mandala design, ametal gong, then some 
large seed-shaped instruments, a koto joins in—twangs, whiens, clinks, 
beats—slow sustained rhythm like a procession marching in the’skies. 
| have seen this music and dance at Ise, wandered around and heard it 
from outside in back where the sacred white horse bows his head 
to the ground, hypnotized by the sounds. 
These inevitable 
slow sounds and movements were meant to lift us out of our 
~ 
nonsensical goings-on into a living peace. 
- 
ae 
: 
"" 
ie 
T’ai/Peace 
- 
above K'UN THE RECEPTIVE, 
Nh 
The Receptive, which moves downward, stands above; the — 
Creative, which moves upward, is below. Hence their infulenc: 
meet and are in harmony, so that all living things bloom 
and prosper. This hexagram belongs to the first month (Fet 
March), at which time the forces of nature prepare the new sp 
THE JUDGMENT 
PEACE. The small departs, 
ose 
The great approaches. 
.< 
Good fortune. Success. 
This hexagram denotes a time in nature when heaven seems. dae 
on earth. Heaven has placed itself beneath the earth, and 
<= 
so their powers unite in deep harmony. Then peace and blessing 
descend upon all omg ibe 
places show favor to the lowly, and the lowly and inferior in 
their turn are well disposed toward the highly placed. There 
is 
end to all feuds. 
Inside, at the center, in the key position, is the light princip! e; the 
dark principle i is outside. Thus the light has a powerful influence, 
which the dark is submissive. In this way each receives its 
due. When the good elements of society occupy a central posit 
and are in control, the evil elements come under their influence 
and change for the better. When the spirit of heaven rules 
in 
his animal nature also comes under its influence and takes it 
appropriate place. 
The individual lines enter the hexagram from below and le 
it again at the top. Here the small, weak, and evil elements are 
about to take their departure, while the great, strong, and g 
elements are moving up. This brings good fomupe and succ| Ss 
THE IMAGE 
Heaven and earth unite: the image of PEACE. 
Thus the ruler 
Divides and completes the course of heaven aad earth; 
He furthers and regulates the gifts of heaven and earth, 
And so aids the people. 
Heaven and earth are in contact and combine their influences, 
producing a time of universal flowering and prosperity. This 
stream of energy must be regulated by the ruler of men. It is. 
done by a process of division. Thus men divide the uniform fl 
of time intoythe seasons, according to the succession of natural 
phenomena, and mark off infinite space by the points of the 
compass. In this way nature in its overwhelming profusion of 
phenomena is bounded and controlled. On the other hand, natu 
must be furthered in her productiveness. This is done by adjus 
the products to the right time and the right place, which incre 
the natural yield. This controlling and furthering activity of man 
his relation to nature is the work on nature that rewards. him. 
