nabeave: iene can’t afford this book— 
} ason for libraries. 
f 
merican Indian Medicine 
; 
nting conception,” and that they relied mainly on abortion, 
ide and abstention to control family size. 
ne 
1e Of them were found to be effective. Just as America was 
to be undiscovered before the white men found it, 
et 
overed them. This is one example among many of the 
jocentric attitude which has hurt the white men more than 
e Indian by delaying scientific inquiry into aboriginal herbal 
0. viedge. The Cherokee drug may have been of no use, but 
is striking here is the way it was rejected a priori, simply 
au white men knew of no oral contraceptive, and therefore, 
ably, none existed. 
It is noteworthy that until recently 
i 
‘not only be said that Indian recipes for controlling 
ert ty had not been investigated, but that the very names of 
te ae juliflora [Swartz] DC, and Prosopis glandulosa 
P. juliflora was the mizquitl of the Aztecs (hence, mesquite), 
mixed the leaves with other substances for an eye lotion when 
'S were hot and painful from sickness. Seventy years ago 
+B burke reported that this shrubby tree was used for the same 
ose by Mexican Americans in Texas, and Hrdlicka found 
s of the American Southwest using it in a similar manner. 
escalero Apaches ground the leaves to a powder, placed 
ibstance i in a thin cloth, added water, and squeezed the 
on the eyes. The Pimas applied the sap to sore eyes. 
aricopas used the dried juice, ground fine, as a sore-eye 
dy by applying the substance to the lids and later 
, and even fractures were infrequent. There was no 
leprosy] ... there is as yet not a single instance of 
I 
ian syphilis. There were, apparently, no nevi [skin 
_ There were no troubles with the feet, such as 
Hen ¢ shes. And, judging from later acquired knowledge, 
was ‘much greater scarcity than in the white population 
i 
ases of the skin, of most mental disorders, and 
us conditions, 
Lief diseases to which the ancient Indians were subject, he added, 
ligestive disorders, particularly in children and older persons, 
via, arthritis, and localized maladies such as oe 
This is the only indigenous species of Mentha. Dr. Clapp 
1852 that it was little used in medicine but would be a 
erate: 
‘substitute for the European species when they could not 
be obtained. 
— 
es gran nd the leaves and stems of this species and boiled 
ra medicine to prevent vomiting. Wild mint was used by all 
i valley tribes as a carminative, being steeped in water and 
1 wi 
ith sugar for a drink. Because of its aromatic flavor, it 
ised asa beverage. Among the Menominees it was combined 
Iso used as a chest poultice. The Flambeau Ojibwas brewed 
he entire plant for use as a blood remedy. 
It was also used 
at bath, and the Pillagers made a tea of it to break fevers. 
ing from nervous tension. Therefore it was 
sib ofa psychosomatic nature. 
Long-hairs are ldoing ne 
new stuff with their bodies and nervous 
systems that occasionally needs medical attention or 
perspective. Communication was blocked, however, by the 
social understanding that they aren’t supposed to be doing 
that stuff. Dr. Schoenfeld and his medical advice column in 
the underground press cut through the blockage, and 
here came a spout of information as weird as it was useful. 
Good answers made the questions good. 
—SB 
Dear Doctor Hippocrates 
Eugene Schoenfeld, M.D. 
1968; 112pp. 
$.95 postpaid 
from: 
Grove Press, Inc. 
315 Hudson Street 
New York, New York 10013 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
For cosmetic reasons and sex appeal, | have been interested for 
some time in removing my pubic hair. | initially tried scissors 
which left stubbles; a safety razor leaves red marks and bumps 
which are both unattractive and painful. An electric razor is 
better but still unsatisfactory. | called an electrologist who 
removes hair, but she found my request most peculiar and 
refused to undertake the work. 
Can you suggest a solution to the problem? Is there any reason 
to believe removal of pubic hair would be either unhealthful or 
dangerous? 
Most Middle Eastern women routinely shave their pubic hair 
but I leave to you and your chafed friends the question of 
whether this practice will enhance your sex appeal. It does 
not seem medically dangerous. 
Cautious use of a depilatory or one of the newer electric razors 
would seem the best solution to your problem. I would advise 
against permanent removal since you might someday move to 
a colder climate. 
Note: Judging from the volume of mail received in response to 
the preceding question and answer, shaving public hair ts 
definitely not confined to the Middle East. Excerpts from three 
letters follow: 
A leading manufacturer of safety razors (Gillette) recently 
placed on the market something called a ‘Scairdy Kit.’ The ad 
dealt with the problem of very brief bathing suits but the letter 
from the girl who shaves made me wonder. Perhaps she needs 
instructions in the use of lather or brushless cream. 
She will have far better results if she uses an electric hair clipper 
such as the ones barbers use. The OOOO blade is the finest 
one and will not leave unsightly stubble, irritate the skin or 
cause abrasions, 
For shaving, use alcohol—it eliminates abrasions and little bumps. 
This was told me by a psychiatrist. 
I have seen countless old films in which Oriental bartenders slip 
their unsuspecting customers a “Mickey Finn” which invariably 
flashes them out of their skulls in about thirty seconds. 
Is there any such drug that, taken orally, would put a person out 
in less than a minute? 
Two types of ‘‘Mickey Finns’ were allegedly used. One was chloral 
hydrate, a sleeping preparation, which induces sleep after twenty 
or thirty minutes. Like barbiturates, it is especially powerful when 
given with alcohol. 
Another ‘‘Mickey” favored by bartenders was a strong laxative, 
a favorite method for getting rid of undesired customers. But 
only in Hollywood do “Mickeys” work within one minute. 
Could you please tell me if it is possible to become pregnant 
without coitus if ejaculation occurred outside the vagina? 
Pregnancy without coitus is possible if semen is at or near the 
entrance to the vagina. This may occur even if a girl is wearing 
underpants, according to some now well-informed female 
sources. 
Perhaps this helps to explain the phenomenon of virgin births. 
But it still seems a poor way to become pregnant. 
Are there.any ways to get birth-control pills besides having to go to 
a doctor to get the prescription? 
No and for good reason. The doctor will take a medical history 
and do a gynecologic examination, including a Pap or cancer 
smear, to determine that there are no conditions which would 
be caused or made worse by taking birth-control pills. You should 
see your Gwn physician or you may be eligible for care at your 
local health department or Planned Parenthood office. Doctor's 
aren't so bad. Some of my best friends... 
(The following letter was sent air mail special delivery from New 
Orleans.) 
Dear Dr. Schoenfeld: 
Is it true that smoking incense can make you high? (I am mainly 
referring to the Joss incense sticks from india.) 
Love, 
Paul ——— 
Dear Paul: 
‘ 
| have not been aware that smoking incense could make one 
high. This effect would have been discovered thousands of years 
ago if it were true. 
Are you sure it's incense you're smoking? 
Sincerely, 
Eugene Schoenfeld, M.D. 
- Handbook of Prescription Drugs 
A drug ordered by brand name can cost several times as 
much as the same drug ordered by generic name. This 
book spells out the difference, its reasons, andhowto 
get generic name prices. One way is, ask your doctor when 
he’s prescribing a drug to prescribe the generic name. 
—SB 
The New Handbook of Prescription Drugs 
Richard Burack, M.D. 
1967, 1970; 366pp. 
$1 .25 postpaid 
from: 
Ballantine Books, Inc. 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, New York 10020 
2 
= 5 ‘| 
EF 
HH i 
A banentne 
Walon 
Beton 
Ty 
oe) 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Handbook of 
Prescription 
Drugs 
Richard Burack, M.D. 
CELESTONE ® 
Betamethasone, N.F. 
0.6 mg tablets $133.56/1000 
0.2% cream 
1.08/5 g tube 
2.22/15 g tube 
Betamethasone is a steroid chemically and pharmacologically 
similar to dexamethasone (Decadron®). Like dexamethasone, it 
is immensely expensive, and in nearly every case it can be replaced 
by less costly prednisone, for oral administration, or hydrocortisone, 
for topical administration. See Prednisone, U.S.P., and Hydro- 
cortisone Ointment, U.S.P., in the Price Lists. 
Nonetheless, in 1967 Celestone® 
was among the top 200 drugs 
prescribed to people of all ages. In 1966 it ranked 143rd among 
prescriptions written for the elderly; 312,000 prescriptions cost 
these consumers $1,526,000. 
CODEINE SULFATE, N.F. 
The manufacture and sale of this narcotic substance and also. 
its price are rigidly dictated by the United States government: 450 
grams cost approximately $350. Therefore, a single 15 miligram 
tablet has wholesale value of approximately one cent. A representative 
price to druggists is $11.80 per thousand 15 milligram tablets 
(Vitarine). See price list for Codeine Sulfate, N.F. 
The Handbook \ists Codeine Sulfate, N.F., rather than Codeine 
Phosphate, U.S.P., because the latter, being more soluble, is more 
bitter to the taste. 
CO-HYDELTRA® 
5 mg tablets $3.25/100 
~Prednisolone, U.S. Pa 
Magnesium Trisilicate, U.S.P. 
Dried Aluminum Hydroxide Gel, UIS.P. 
Prednisone is preferable, and can be less expensive. See Prednisone, 
ULS.Ps in the Price Lists. 
The Ship Captain’s Medical Guide 
! doubt if there is a more complete book of paramedical 
information. It assumes there is no doctor wi ithin days or 
weeks of your situation. Bargain price. 
—SB 
The Ship — 
Medical Guide 
20th Edition, 967; 356pp. 
$3.60 (30 shillings) 
pve 
e a 
from: 
Government Bookshop 
P.O. Box 569 
London S.E. 1, ENGLAND 
or Blackwell’s (see p. 81) 
Fig. 111. 
Appendicitis is by far the most common inflammatory condition in 
the abdomen and it occurs particularly in men under 30. It is not 
usually difficult to diagnose, but the abdominal pains must be 
distinguished from ordinary intestinal colic. Always suspect 
appendicitis with abdominal pains. An acute attack of appendicitis 
commences with pain which is vague in situation to begin with 
(though generally around the navel), but which after a few hours 
settles in the right side of the lower part of the abdomen. The pain 
is usually continuous, and it may or may not be very severe. There 
may be a loose stool at the beginning of the attack, but after that 
there is no desire to pass any motion again and constipation 
exists. The patient usually vomits once or twice during the first 
few hours of the pain. 
