*~ 
= 
The Order of the Universe Magazine. 
ever wondered whether a baby ruth 
had enough yin to balance off the ya 
yang in a coke? 
get into the Way of Eating. 
The Order of the Universe magazine 
provides a nice systems approach to 
the universe through your mouth, 
through the regulation of bodily 
input a belief in change change 
change, and the body’‘s spiralic structure. 
based on the teachings of george oshawa 
The Order of the Universe Magazine 
and lectures of michio kushi, the 
$10 00 for twelve issue subscripti 
i 
] 
4 
ption 
ee 
hil 
h 
d 
$1.00 single copies 
Se 
ee 
from: 
He 
Order of the Universe Publications 
Box 203 
Prudential Center Station 
Boston, Massachussets 02199 
The Order of the ivece 
As sugars pass through our body they meet 
different forms of digestive juices which 
alternate between yin and yang. Eventually 
all sugars are broken down into monosaccharides. 
It is a mistake, however, to conclude that we 
should eat monosaccharides. Under normal 
circumstances we should eat polysaccharides 
and gradually break them down with our own 
digestive processes. 
Mono- and disaccharides are often selected 
for food because they smell and taste very 
sweet. Their strong odor shows that they are 
more yin, separated, or dissociated. When we 
Pass a bakery we notice the strong smell of 
sugar, but a grain store has very little odor 
because these foods are not expanding and 
throwing off particles. The extreme yin of cane 
Sugar causes immediate reactions throughout 
our body. The parasympathetic branch of our 
autonomic nervous system is strongly 
affected, and a ‘sugar reaction” takes place in 
Our stomach, causing it to stop its movements 
and become paralyzed. About eight-tenths of 
@ gram is all that is necessary to produce this 
effect. Any strong yin food will do this, because the stomach is also 
yin. To neutralize these sugars, more gastric acid is produced by the 
stomach; then movement begins again. We do not often notice 
these automatic actions, except that sweets make us lose our 
appetite; however, if we continue to take sweets everyday, our 
system is overworked. If this is continued for years, the walls of the 
stomach become ulcerated. 
The Body's Spirallic Structure. 
See Page 15 
The Way of Life in the Age of Humanity 
Volume Three. Number Three 
One Dollar 
ylaal 
ZF 
JEW 
POo§ 
[e21SKYg 
N. 
Sugar is broken down and absorbed in our intestines. Polysaccharides 
are gradually reduced, while disaccharides are broken down more 
quickly. There are millions of bacteria in our intestines which aid 
in this process. Our intestinal villi resemble the roots of a tree 
which are surrounded by bacteria which help them to complete 
their cycles and to grow. There are constructive and destructive 
bacteria; sugar tends to destroy the former and support colonies 
of the latter. The constructive bacteria help manufacture the 
Vitamin B group; if they are lacking, people begin to resort to 
vitamin pills. Beri-beri is a typical disease which arises when Vitamin 
B is in short supply. 
Cane sugar causes a quick-burning ‘‘fire’’ in our metabolism, 
s= 
producing an acid reaction. Our body should burn slowly and 
33 
evenly. To cancel this, an emergency mobilization is made; minerals 
ae 
are called out and used to change the strong acids to weak ones, 
=o: 
which in turn are changed to carbon dioxide and water and 
eliminated. As long as we have a sufficient stock of minerals, 
we Can continue to neutralize such overacid conditions, and we 
will seldom become unbalanced. There are minerals in our 
daily food which can assist in this. However, if we are taking cane 
Sugar every day, we must begin to mobilize minerals from our 
storage stock. Today most processed foods contain sugar, 
and the average American consumes about 100 pounds per year. 
Calcium represents 40% of our mineral storage, and naturally is 
mobilized most often. As a result, sugar tends to make our bones 
weak. Those who ate plenty of sugar in their childhood usually 
have thin, weak bones and tooth decay. When tooth decay 
starts in our childhood, it is unlikely that we can enjoy life; 
our food is completely wrong. 
anuqajian 
ZE 
Instead of dealing with the Kremlin and Washington D.C., it is much 
easier to chew well and eat brown bread; all problems are nothing 
but self problems. No one else can chew for you, and no one else 
can sit on the toilet for you. Because of this; you cannot complain 
to any government; if you are unhappy you have no one else to 
blame but yourself, so no violence is necessary at all. This is the 
utmost peaceful way and the most basic. The world’s vast population 
of almost four billion people can be condensed and condensed 
until this point is reached, a point which is easy to manage. Instead 
of trying to turn the tide of a vast ocean, we approach the stream while 
while it is still small; then our task is simple. 
Brain 
--Atmosphere - _. 
Se eeey 
Biological life 
Matter 
Moss 
Recent land plants 
Diapliragen 
~- 
------- Land formation 
Liver + Gall Bladder 
- 
Stomach 
More recent ocean 
Pancreas 
Small Intestine -------------{- 
; 
yee 
Large Intestine ~~~ 
Ancient primitive ocean 
Rectum 
» * *) 
: 
Natural History 
Time we carried this... 
magazine gives about the best brownrice 
Natural History 
$7.00 year (10 issues) 
from: 
The American Museum of Natural History 
Central Park West at 79th Street 
New York, New York 10024 
Caprinus comatus 
Lycoperdon perlatum 
Most of the mushrooms with pores instead of gills can be eaten, 
but avoid any that turn blue when cut, and any with red pore 
mouths. The king boletus, which can reach a size of ten inches 
across, belongs to the pore group. In Europe it goes under the 
a number of names —cepe (France), steinpilz (Germany), 
boroviki (Poland), stensopp (Denmark)—indicating its widespread 
popularity. The ancient Romans served the king boletus at 
banquets, using special dishes called “boletarii.”” 1p North America 
it grows in open woodlands from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and for 
the best flavor should be cooked the day it is picked. 
+ 
A familiar mushroom is the shaggy mane, Coprinus comatus, 
which grows along roadsides, in wasteland, in city gardens, and 
back lanes, Its tall, cylindrical cap, grayish white in color and 
covered with ragged scales, is unmistakable. !t must be picked 
young and cooked at once, for if left for only a few hours the 
gills dissolve into an inky fluid. Oven cooking is best for the 
shaggy mane, as the caps are soft and fragile and tend to disintegrate 
unless handled carefully. 
Cheetahs prefer to hunt a solitary individual or one in a small 
herd, because they have difficulty selecting a gazelle and keeping 
it in sight in a large, milling herd. Individuals that enter tall grass, 
graze behind some bushes, or otherwise enable the cheetah to 
stalk undetected are chosen. With endless patience the cat may 
© 
wait for a gazelle to lower its head and graze while briefly 
facing away from the danger thus giving the cheetah an undetected 
second during the rush—often the difference between success and 
failure. The selection process is not always an easy one. Cheetahs 
sometimes bound toward a herd, then give up for no obvious reason, 
probably because they are unable to find a suitable quarry. Or they 
first pursue a herd at moderate speed before suddenly making a 
selection. 
. 
..After knocking a gazelle down by hitting its flank or rump 
with a paw, the cheetah typically grabs it by the throat and 
throttles it, a task that requires four and a half minutes on the 
average. The carcass is often dragged to a shady spot. Cheetahs 
usually eat the meat off one thigh first; after that they cut the 
meat from the abdomen and rib cage, sometimes stopping to 
fap up any blood that collects in the body cavity. Finally they 
strip the rest of the meat from the inside. All that generally 
remains is the articulated skeleton with much of the skin and the 
whole digestive tract. The cats eat rapidly, glancing nervously 
around at intervals. This is not surprising, for lions, hyenas, and 
other predators often arrive at the kill, having. been alerted by the 
descending vultures that a meal is in the offing. Cheetahs are timid 
creatures, low in the predator hierarchy, and 12 percent of their 
kills end in someone else’s:stomach. Twice | saw a cheetah driven. 
from its kill by a solid phalanx of vultures. The cheetahs 
did little 
to retaliate when their kill was scavenged except to hiss and moan 
in a peculiar manner, although one bold hyena was slapped in the 
face... 
: 
: 
i 
rie 
