* 
Rags 
Never fear, Rags is nowhere near a newsprint version of 
Glamour, so don’t be put off by the fact that they talk 
about fashion sometimes. All they’re really doing is talking 
about wearing your insides on your outsides. All of us feel 
that fashion can be superficial, trivial and irrelevant and it 
is... if you take it too seriously. Rags has zeroed in on 
fashion as just plain ole daily living and they look to the 
street for people who dig fashion as self-expression and not 
what-to-wear-when-and-why-not. They know that nobody 
should have to think twice about clothes or how they look 
except as a whimsical, trippy kind of safe-valve, Put on 
what you feel and you can’t help but look beautiful. 
They print some good how-to articles, so you can pick up 
on all sorts of old and new recipes, beauty and otherwise, 
to make you feel better by doing it yourself and enjoying 
it all too. If your insides are being energized and 
revolutionized and beautified then those ole familiar 
outsides just have to be getting better too: 
[Reviewed by Barbara DeZonia) 
Subscription: 
$7.50 for 26 issues 
from: 
Rags 
30 East 20th Street 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
* 
Win 
to change people, you must communicate with them. 
there are a number of ways to go about changing a person’s 
mind. walk up to him on the street, grab him by the 
carnation lapel, and yell “boogetyshoo, you mistaken 
bastard!” or catch him asleep and whisper honeydrips of 
sweet poison into his ear... “think, think, think, think, 
think, think, think, think.” or become a soothsayer, 
truthsayer, set yourself up as an honest person, say what 
you think ina cluster of different accents, get your hand 
gestures down, and pretty soon people will start listening 
to whatever you are putting out. to work this alternative, 
though, you must either have a high reputation, indian 
chief, lawyer, god, or you must have a pile of power, the 
president of a large north american country. you can change 
society with painting, bombing, sidewalk scribbling, love, 
banking, unbanking, skywriting, prayer, retooling, and 
meditation, but, power to the people, you must change 
people to change society. 
win tries. 
ses techn 
ie 
S25 clos 
A 
tm 
it is a together magazine. 
oN 
ae 
oP 
lng 
aad comnts beshong 
te dew Shang sho > 
—jd 
remy chained 05 
+ linpuy fo Lowupe te for 
The heawned ave Somat mteere - 
te serge, 
Win 
Ge mths Karen 
Zz 
pps ance ea e's 
twice monthly, except for occasional monthly issues. 
J alge — te poles 
Ws gmarde taht Cems tsuriing me 
Really the ener 19 bow rat 
$5.00 yearly 
(Sapir wr thasee setrasteh liom Pls) 
Heth Moth sts0 ort 
from: 
Win 
339 Lafayette Street 
New York, New York 10012 
ain 
TEAR DOWN 
A person can be out-of-odds with his society for one of two 
reasons: either that society is unhealthy (which ours is) or he is. 
| think we at Sunrise Hill made a sizeable mistake in assuming that 
our alienation was due almost entirely to the former reason. 
Even externally generated conflicts are bound to create internal 
ones, and it seems a rare individual who can escape these conflicts 
without the scars, maimings and weaknesses intrinsic to them. 
A neurotic society must produce neurotic individuals, and this is 
no less true for its rebels than it is for its conformers. Where the 
incompatibility of individual and society arose (in the individual 
or in the society) matters little, for it winds up in both. It is 
small wonder, then, that the people who came to Sunrise Hill 
bore “‘hang ups’’. Who else would be attracted to community, 
such a radical solution to their dilemmas? It is said that happy 
people do not volunteer'to go to war. Neither, | say, do they join 
communities. The roots of this unhappiness may lie in either 
themselves or their world. We at Sunrise Hill did not know how 
to determine one from the other, and so we hardly tried; we 
accepted virtually all who came. 
In addition, it must be confessed that more than one couple among 
them had already experienced difficulty with their marriage, or 
at least were not fully satisfied with it. | suppose that some were 
uncomfortable with the idea or actuality of monogamy, either 
because they had never experienced polygamous relationships—or 
because they had. To such couples with marital problems, 
community seemed to offer some relief but, as things turned out, 
little mending. 
Nothing less than a revolution in revolution is happening. 
A new way of thinking is behind it. A new way of living is the 
result. 
n 
Expanded: consciousness covers a multitude of virtues, A scope of 
interest that includes more time, more space, and more people 
not only brings new problems, such as ecology, into popular focus 
but also encompasses new responses. 
Many people, of course, have already seen far enough to know that 
this summer is not going to end until we get off it. Yesterday 
ecology was a science, Today it is a social problem. Tomorrow, if we 
are to keep making this scene, it had better become something like 
a religion. 
Thou shalt Jearn to live on thy planet, and keep it whole. 
This requires more than your signature on a referendum. It means 
not just a rebellion in the streets and on the campuses, It takes you 
all the way down to your own body, your own family, and a 
revolution in your own home, It entails an extraordinary 
commitment to an entirely new way of life. 
