Quantity Recipes 
In. acommune | lived in in New Mexico we had two major 
problems: food and sex. This book will go a long way to 
helping you solve the first. What a drag to take down the 
Joy of Cooking, find something really groovy to fix for 
yourself and friends and have to spend a half an hour 
multiplying all the ingredients by seven or eight knowing 
that you couldn’t possibly need a cup of oregano in the 
chili, but that’s what your figures say. We ate some pretty 
bad experiments and several of the women and men shied 
away forever from anything but the lettuce salads. Enormous 
pots of food take a certain skill or they become enormous 
pots of glop. 
/n my opinion the recipes are basic, that is, | would add here 
and there seasonings, etc. to make the food special, new, 
hopefully an experience and not just another meal. Like 
all cookbooks this finally becomes a guide rather than a 
road but it will show you a road and act as a guide until 
the process becomes intuitive. Also, after a few weeks, or 
months, cooking creatively can get a bit strained. Cookbooks 
will pull you through with the advantage of this one already 
being adjusted for a large group. One of the best dollar 
tools a community could buy. 
[Reviewed by Steve Katona] 
While you're at it, get their free catalog of Bulletins, 
which lists innumerable titles on food, kitchens, shopping, 
clothes, flowers, etc., at low cost. 
[Suggested by Roger Knights] 
Quantity Reci 
Marion A. Wood Katharine W. Harris 
1945, 1966; 233pp. 
$1 .00 postpaid 
from: 
Cornell Home Economics Extension 
New York State College of Human Ecology 
Mail Room 
Building 7, Research Park 
Cornell University 
Ithaca, New York 14850 
QUANTITY 
RECIPES 
© 
© 
Cc 
c 
© 
c 
cs 
wa 
Another means of decreasing the cost of a recipe is by extending the 
more expensive items with cheaper ones. Meat stew 
is used as an 
example: 
MEAT AND VEGETABLE STEW 
Yield: 50 servings 
3 servings per pound of meat 
Price per unit 
5 servings per pound of meat 
15 pounds beef. 
...-----$10.65 $0.71/pound 10 pounds beef........... 
$7.10 
1 cup onions. 
01 
0.03/pound 1 cup onions............. 
01 
2 quarts carrots 
e 
-14 
0.06/pound 3 quarts carrots 
OF 
-21 
2 quarts potatoes. 
. 
-12 
0.04/pound 3 quarts potatoes.......... 
18 
1 quart celery rings. 
; 
09 
0.13/bunch 14 quarts celery rings... 
. 
14 
14% quarts (2}4 pounds) 
2% quarts (4 pounds) 
peas, frozen 
-45 
0.18/pound 
peas, frozen............ 
.72 
Total cost... 
$11.46 
. 
Fotal.cost...-2..:. 
$8,36 
Cost per serving $0.23 ($11.46 + 50) 
Cost per serving $0.167 ($8.36 + 50) 
The cost of left-over foods used in recipes should be included when 
figuring costs. 
. 
Average serving size and cost of serving, 1966, are given in the 
appendix. 
*« 
How to Buy Food 
A collection of U.S. Dept. of Agriculture publications 
including information on fresh meat, fish, dairy products, 
fruits and vegetables and frozen and canned goods. Also 
has sections on what government gradings mean; pointers 
on when higher quality is worth the price, on storing food— 
where and for how long, and seasonal bargains. All in all 
informative and full of reassuring rules of thumb. 
[Reviewed by Laura Besserman] 
How to Buy Food 
Valerie Moolman, editor 
1970; 160 pp. 
$1.00 postpaid 
from: 
Cornerstone Library, Inc. 
Matty ( 
Pawtiey. 
Pubs 
FAs 
630 Fifth Avenue 
Vegetables; 
Dairy Products: 
New York, New York 10020 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
44 
The Oxford Book of Food Plants 
G.B. Masefield, M. Wallis, 
S.G. Harrison, JB.E. Nicholson 
1969; 205pp. 
$1 1.00 postpaid 
from: 
Oxford University Press 
16-00 Pollitt Drive 
Fair Lawn, New Jersey 07140 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
* 
The Oxford Book of Food Plants 
A beautiful book, for looking and for reference. Color plates 
as illustration of every plant, emphasizing the part which 
supplies food. Arranged in a practical way—plants are 
grouped according to the kind of food they produce: fruits, 
herbs, leaf vegetables, oil crops, sugar crops, root vegetables, 
etc. Common and botanical name included, and an index 
which lists both, plus a glossary of descriptive botanical 
words. Descriptions of each plant tells its use, history, 
countries of origin and regions where it grows, along with a 
physical description accompanied by a drawing,.food value, 
and economic value. 
[Reviewed by D. Smith] 
Lentil (Lens culinaris). This is one of the oldest leguminous crops, 
believed to have originated in the Near East or the Mediterranean 
region, and known to the ancient Egyptians and the Greeks. It is 
still grown commercially mainly in the regions where it was first 
cultivated, although it can be grown as far north as the British Isles, 
given a warm, light soil. The seeds are marketed when dried and 
are widely used in soups and stews. They have a high protein 
content and are more easily digestible than animal proteins. In 
Catholic countries they have long been appreciated as a food for 
use during Lent. 
The Lentil is a much-branched annual, up to 18 inches high, with 
slender, angular stems. Its leaves are pinnate, with 4 to 7 pairs of 
more or less oval leaflets, about % inch long. The small white 
flowers are papilionaceous with a large upper petal, two lateral 
petals, and two narrow petals between these. The flowers are 
succeeded by short, flattened pods, each with 1 or 2 seeds. These 
seeds are green, greenish-brown, or reddish, sometimes mottled. 
Their shape is indicated by the classical name of the genus, Lens, 
from which the English word ‘lens’ is taken. The split and de-husked 
lentils of commerce are usually orange or reddish. 
KUMQUAT (Fortunella spp.) is not a true Citrus but comprises 
species of the closely related shrubby genus Fortunella. |n appearance 
the fruits are like very small oranges, but they have an acid taste. 
They are not widely grown, but are prized in China because of 
their cold resistance which enables them to be grown farther north 
than any of the true citrus fruits. They are used mainly for pickling 
or making into conserves. 
CLEMENTINE is regarded by some authorities as a variety of 
tangerine, and by others as a hybrid, probably between the tangerine 
and sweet orange. It lies in any case somewhere between the 
tangerine and orange in the size and colour of the fruit and in the 
ease with which the peel may be removed. Clementines are produced 
principally in the North African countries and appear on the market 
in limited quantities. 
The mango is a medium-sized to large tree of rather variable height. 
The narrow dark green leaves form a characteristically dense mass 
of foliage, casting a heavy shade which makes the tree useful as 
a firebreak but incidentally provides a favourable habitat for 
mosquitoes. Fruiting begins by about 6 years from planting, but 
yield declines after the trees are about 40 years old. There is a 
tendency to biennial bearing, with exceptionally heavy crops in 
some years, Flowering takes place usually between January and 
March in the northern hemisphere, and in June to August in the 
southern. The inflorescence (1B) produces clusters of small numbers 
of fruits, each hanging down on a stalk which in some varieties 
can be very long. The yellowish-green skin of the fruit is not eaten. 
Inside it is the orange-coloured edible flesh surrounding the central 
seed (stone). It is difficult to eat the fruit without getting sticky. 
