Guide to Filmmaking 
ed pincus is a careful man, once a logician of sorts, now a 
cameraman. he’s taught still work at the visual arts center, 
harvard, and now is at the mit film department. 
his book is carefully done, thorough, nicely indexed, easier 
to use than the american cinematographers manual, and 
probably more useful to the student. 
and it only costs a buck fifty. 
its good, ed: 
hi, jane. 
[Reviewed by J. D. Smith. 
Suggested by everybody] 
Guide to Filmmaking 
Edward Pincus 
1969; 256 pp. 
$1 50 postpaid 
from: 
The New American Library, Inc. 
1301 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, New York 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
=m 
13. 16MM 
CAMERA—ARRIFLEX 
BL. 
Features 
similar 
to 
Arrifiex M, but it is also self-blimped. 
Primarily used 
when sound 
is being recorded synchronously 
with the 
picture. (Arriflex Corp. of America) 
Assistants 
A Hollywood film often involves more than a hundred 
people on the production end. Many an underground film has 
but one person—the filmmaker. He must be jack-of-all- 
trades. He raises money for the filming (producer), he writes 
the script (scriptwriter), shoots the film (cameraman), di- 
tects the action (director), records the sound (soundman), 
carries the equipment (grip), lights the set (lighting techni- 
cian), edits the film (editor)—+o list only his major responsi- 
bilities. The question may arise: If or when does he need as- 
sistants? 
With practice the cameraman will get an idea of what 
lighting situations demand what f/stop for a given film. It is 
easy to learn the standard outdoor light situations and what 
exposure they require. 
e 
Dealing with the film laboratory is possibly the most diffi- 
cult and frustrating part of filmmaking. To avoid the usual 
lab problems, you must know what instructions to give the 
laboratory, what you can reasonably ask of the lab, and how 
to evaluate their work. 
Much slipshod work and many errors are made by labora- 
tories, but seldom do they equal the number of errors made 
by the filmmaker. Filmmakers tend to blame all technical 
photographic faults on the laboratory, and it is a rare labo- 
ratory that will admit that it has made the error. 
Behrend’s Book 
One disadvantage of mail order is that you 
don’t get to rap with the clerk and find out 
how to use the thing you’re buying. That 
disadvantage is somewhat overcome in this 
catalog of film equipment (sales and rental). 
They explain matters more than is usual 
with remote merchants. 
—SB 
Behrend’s Book 
1969; 108 pp. 
free 
from: 
Behrend’s Incorporated 
161 East Grand Avenue 
Chicago, Illinois 60611 
76 
* 
The Film Director As Superstar 
If you've always hated Pauline Kael anyway and you’ve 
been mildly freaked because your 5 yr old kid sister just 
completed her 3rd on-the-street-every-inch-true-to-life 
documentary, then you will find comfort as well as real 
hope between these covers. This is one of those rare 
books on film that actually comes out and says what up 
till now you felt only you and Godard understood: that 
Film is Revolution not A Wave and its credo is the novelty 
of just going out and doing it. Now that we have been 
amply and repeatedly assured that we are on the threshold 
of a technological and aesthetic revolution in movies which 
will inevitably restructure human consciousness and 
understanding, this book says that the new sensibility 
obviously would be awfully nice in 70mm Panavision but 
that it will work in Super 8 too. Which is just another way 
of saying, Hey, remember 2001 is probably the most 
awesome underground movie ever made ($10,500,000) 
before, lean and crazed, you sell your soul for a jr. 
apprenticeship on Mary Poppins. The 16 interviews that 
follow are a cross-section of independent directors—all of 
whom are just as interested in finding a new life style as 
a new film style. They are all, in one way or another, 
outsiders from Jim McBride (Greetings) whdse $2500 
1st film still hadn’t been shown theatrically 2 yrs. after 
he made it, to Roman Polanski who says definitely that 
he’s not obsessed with the bizarre and that his next film 
is going to be about the Donner Pass Cannibals, to Andy 
Warhol who says that he’s still learning how to use a camera 
and that they haven’t really made a “‘movie” yet. The 
book is not a defense of cinema vs. movies nor does it 
go through the theoretic/aesthetic trauma of The 
Underground vs. Hollywood. What it says is that personal 
films are not sprung full-blown from the head of the 
inspired amateur with his 16mm Arriflex.and Nagra tape 
recorder slung over his shoulder. 
[Reviewed by Barbara DeZonia] 
| don't think that it is possible for a man to spend a number of 
hours discussing himself and his work and his life without 
revealing a kind of personality profile... one man’s evasiveness 
can be as eloquent as another man’s candor.” 
A director’s job in this period of filmmaking—and | know this may 
change as it has in the past—is to be an absolute dictator and 
produce a personal vision on a subject that he has chosen. He is 
paid too much because he has that responsibility, but what the 
people are buying is that personal vision.” 
[Lester] 
P. Yes. The older | grow, the more | value simplicity. The more 
difficult it seems to me to make a simple film. | want my film 
to be done so the people who see it have the impression it was 
done without any effort. But, of course, there is a lot of effort 
behind it, a lot of struggle. And as for realism, the only way to 
seduce people into believing you—whether they want to or not— 
is to take painstaking care with the details of your film, to make 
it accurate. Sloppiness destroys emotional impact. 
[Roman Polanski] 
Moving one step and several ng 
up, we come to the production 
camera is best typified by the 
Both have registration pj 
rock-steady image qu 
adaptable, by mea 
varying assignmen| 
ee 
Film Director 
Superstar 
The Film Director as Superstar 
Joseph Gelmis 
$3.50 postpaid 
from: 
Doubleday & Co, Inc. 
277 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10017 
os s 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
josephGeimis 
Everybody’s looking for young talented directors. But what they 
all do is: they’ll take you, a young talented director, and take a 
young talented writer, and a young talented producer and they'll 
give you young talented property about young talented people and 
they'll put you all together and you'll make a young talented film.” 
So they’ve called me up and said, ‘We're interested in you.’’ And 
| say, ‘Well, I’m interested in doing this movie. |'Il send you a 
script.’ And they say, ‘’Well, we've got this famous book,” or 
something like that. So | say, ‘‘Forget it.”” 
[Jim McBride] 
