Nomadics 
The Complete Walker 
Some of them old boys are into making houses out of 
chicken wire and condoms. Some of them can gather you 
a salad right off the forest floor. Some can make you a 
computer out of old Stromberg-Carlson radio parts and 
have enough wire and tubes left over for two laser death 
rays and a UFO. But Colin is into walking. His two previous 
books are mainly about walks: In The Thousand Mile 
Summer he te//s about one he took up the entire Sierra 
range, and in The Man Who Walked Through Time, he 
walks the whole Grand Canyon. This one is about walking, 
not walks. /t’s not full of lore and woodsiness. It doesn’t 
tell you how to get back to nature, or cast civilization from 
your back and wander out with a bowie knife and a jock- 
Strap. It gives a little walk philosophy, and then proceeds 
to discuss, in just the right detail, how to put a nice little 
well-equipped house and its fittings on your back, how to 
be able to go out and walk for a long time without having 
to come back for more stuff. 
[Reviewed by Roland Jacopetti] 
The Complete Walker 
Colin Fletcher 
1969; 353 pp. 
$8. 18 postpaid 
from: 
Alfred A Knopf, Inc. 
33 West 60th Street 
New York, New York 10023 
or $7 95 postpaid 
from WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Calne 
Colin Fletcher 
* 
The 10 Bushcraft Books 
... It’s sort of a how-to-do-it-in-Australia, which turned me 
off at first until | read it a little more thoroughly. The 
problem with most books on this subject which are available 
in this country is that they are basically diletante’s manuals; 
they tell you how to live in the open for a week or two, 
but always presuppose that sooner or later you‘re going to 
go back to your Telegraph Hill apartment and take a nice 
hot shower. Australia, however, is a different scene, more 
like the U.S. a hundred years ago, when quite large numbers 
of people were accustomed, for various reasons, to living 
out of doors for most of the year. And that, | take it, is 
what more and more of our brothers and sisters are doing 
or thinking about doing (or have to do.) 
[Suggested and Reviewed by Roland] 
THEIO 
BUSHCRAFT 
BOOKS oy 
sicuseo craves 
THE 10 BUSHCRAFT BOOKS are: 
The Ten Busheraft Books 
Richard Graves 
300pp. 
$1 0.30 postpaid 
from: 
Dymock's Book Arcade Ltd. 
Sydney 2000, Australia 
Book 1. 
Ropes & Cords 
Book 6. 
Knots & Lashings 
Book 2. 
Huts & Thatching 
Book 7. 
Tracks & Lures 
Book 3. 
Campcraft 
Book 8. 
Snares & Traps 
Book 4. 
Food & Water 
Book 9. 
Travel & Gear 
Book 5. 
Firemaking 
Book 10. Time & Direction 
Nature lovers will contend that trapping is cruel and unnecessary. 
Undoubtedly this is true of much of the trapping which takes place 
now, and has taken place in the past. Trapping for the skins is 
cruel, wasteful and not in any way productive of good. Similarly 
in other countries trapping of animals for the pelts threatened whole 
species of wildlife with extinction. 
The general run of mechanical trapping is extremely cruel. Most 
animal traps are similar to the common rabbit trap. A device with 
two steel jaws that clamp onto an animal's leg generally breaks it, and 
holds the creature in agony until it is killed, possibly hours later, by 
the trapper. 
These traps are not discriminatory. Protected animals and even birds 
are caught in rabbit traps set near warrens by river banks. Pets, 
too, are caught and their legs broken so they either have to be 
destroyed or left maimed for life. Trapping of this nature is cruel and 
wasteful. 
Trapping can be humane, and need not in any way cause suffering 
or extreme distress to the wild animal. Pen and box type traps can 
be used to catch animals alive. These type of traps cause the animals 
no discomfort or pain. Other types of traps such as logfalls kill 
instantly. The wild creature is not left in lingering agony for hours. 
When it touches the bait, death is merciful, and instant. 
* 
The Way of the White Clouds 
pilgrims are religious nomads, 
people who go with a purpose, 
think as they go, 
move for a reason. 
they have constancy in flux, 
patterns in variety, 
knowledge of the void. 
this is the story of a nomad in the mountains, 
a buddhist pilgrim in tibet. 
| 
-j 
: 
a 
ea 
ao 
(suggested by pam) 
Celia 
it 
Se 
OPE 
The Way of the White Clouds 
Lama Anagarika Govinda 
1966;70 305pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
Shambala Publications 
2010 Seventh Street 
Berkeley, California 94710 
see 
ued 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
To see the greatness of a mountain, one must keep one’s” 
distance; to understand its form, one must move around it; 
to experience its moods, one must see it at sunrise and sunset, 
at noon and at midnight, in sun and in rain, in snow and in 
storm, in summer and in winter and in all the other seasons. 
He who can see the mountain like this comes near to the life 
of the mountain, a life that is as intense and varied as that of a 
human being. Mountains grow and decay, they breathe and 
pulsate with life. They attract and collect invisible energies 
from their surrounding; the forces of the air, of the water, 
of electricity and magnetism. they create winds, clouds, 
thunderstorms, rains, waterfalls, and rivers. They fill their 
surroundings with active life and give shelter and food to in- 
numerable beings; such is the greatness of mighty mountains. 
We had crossed the feared 18,000-foot pass in perfect ease and 
under a cloudless sky. The sun was so hot during the ascent 
that | had discarded my warm things, but hardly had we entered 
the shadows on the other side of the pass when we were plunged 
into icy cold, that made me regret not having kept my warm 
clothing at hand. Tibet is a country where one is ever up 
against the unexpected and where all accepted rules of nature 
seem to be changed. The contrast between sunshine and shade 
is such that if for any length of time one part of one’s body would 
be exposed to the sun, while the other remained in the shade, 
one could develop simultaneously blisters, due to severe sunburn, 
and chilblains due to the icy air in the shade. The air is too 
rarified to absorb the sun’s heat and thus to create amedium 
shadow temperature, nor is it able to protect one from the 
fierceness of the sun and its ultra-violet rays. 
102 
