black elk was a holy man 
an oglala sioux 
1 and a good storyteller, 
_ john neihardt, 
the poet-laureate of nebraska, 
and his daughter, hilda, 
recorded black elk’s raps in 1931. 
_ 
jts all here, 
_ buffalo, custer, the ghost dance, 
everything that hollywood fucked up, 
plus the story of a whole old man, 
and his visions, 
—jd 
Black Elk Speaks 
John G. Neihbrdt 
1932, 69; 280pp. 
$1.50 postpaid 
from 
Bison Books 
University of Nebraska Press 
Lincoln, Nebraska 68508 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Crazy Horse’s father was my father's cousin, and there were no 
chiefs in our family before Crazy Horse; but there were holy 
__men; and he became a chief because of the power he gotin a 
vision when he was a boy. When | was a man, my father told me 
- 
something about that vision. Of course he did not know all of it; 
but he said that Crazy Horse dreamed and went into the world 
where there is nothing but the spirits of all things. That is the 
_ real world that is behind this one, and everything we see here is 
something like a shadow from that world. He was on his horse in 
that world, and the horse and himself on it and the trees and the 
. 
grass and the stones and everything were made of spirit, and 
____ nothing was hard, and everything seemed to float. His horse was 
_ Standing there, and yet it danced around like a horse made only of 
_ shadow, and that is how he got his name, which does not mean that 
. 
‘his horse was crazy or wild, but that in his vision it danced around 
in that queer way. 
it was this vision that gave him his great power, for when he went in 
_ that he could go through anything and not be hurt. Until he was 
coe murdered by the Wasichus at the Soldiers’ Town on White River he 
_ was wounded only twice, once by accident and both times by some 
one of his own people when he was not expecting trouble and was 
not thinking; never by an enemy. He was fifteen years old when he 
~ was wounded by accident; and the other time was when he was a 
___ young man and another man was jealous of him because the man’s 
_ wife liked Crazy Horse. 
_ They used to say too that he carried a sacred stone with him, like 
one he had seen in some vision, and that when he was in danger, 
the stone always got very heavy and protected him somehow. That, 
they used to say, was the reason no horse he ever rode lasted very 
~ long. | do not Know about this; maybe people only thought it; but 
_ 
it isa fact that he never kept one horse long. They wore out. | 
think it was only the power of his great vision that made him great. 
that a man who has a vision is not able to use the power of it until 
after he has performed the vision on earth for the people to 
see. You remember that my great vision came to me when | was 
‘ anything until after | had performed the horse dance near the 
the great fear had not come upon me, as it did, and forced me to 
do my duty, | might have been less good to the people than some 
man who had never dreamed at all, even with the memory of so 
great a vision in me. But the fear came, and if | had not obeyed it, 
am sure it would, ners killed me in a little while. 
x 
i: 
: 
e 
C rooked gulch as plain as when | saw them with eyes still young. 
nd | can see that something else died there in the bloody mud, 
d was buried in the blizzard. A people’s dream died there. | t was 
itiful dream. 
ay nd te 
to whom so great a vision was given in my youth,—you see 
N a pitiful old man who has done nothing, for the nation’s 
broken and scattered. There is no center any longer, and 
[Suggested by everyone including Michael Howaen] 
toa fight, he had only to think of that world to be in it again, so that 
1 think | have told you, but if | have not, you must have understood, 
only nine years old, and you have seen that | was not much good for 
_ mouth of the Tongue River during my eighteenth summer. And if the 
Machine Ex Deo 
P 
Here in one sharp little book are noted many of the large- 
scale turns of history and culture that we are visibly and 
invisibly making in one evolutionary blink of time. Unlike 
most overviewers, White does not concern himself with 
so much pace of change as he does with origins and 
directions. His 1967 essay “The Historical Roots of Our 
Ecologic Crisis” (chapter 5 in this book) is already a 
much-reprinted classic, | suspect that Chapter 1 1, The 
Necessity of Witches” will become one. 
—SB 
From the kaleidoscopic and iridescent record of mankind, we can 
learn chiefly this: the possible range of human thought, emotion, 
organization, and action is almost infinite. In facing today’s 
problems, we must therefore liberate ourselves from presuppositions 
as to what may or may not be possible. Knowledge of history frees 
us to be.contemporary. 
Prophecy is rash, but it may well be that the publication of D.T. 
Suzuki's first Essays in Zen Buddhism in 1927 will seem in future 
generations as great an intellectual event as William of Moerbeke’s 
Latin translations of Aristotle in the thirteenth century or 
Marsiglio Ficino’s of Plato in the fifteenth. But in Suzuki's case, 
the shell of the Occident has been broken through. More than we 
dream, we are now governed by the new canon of the globe. 
Francis tried to depose man from his monarchy over creation and 
set up a democracy of all God's creatures. With him the ant is no 
longer simply a homily for the lazy, flames a sign of the thrust of 
the soul toward union with God; now they are Brother Ant and 
Sister Fire, praising the Creator in their own ways as Brother Man 
does in his. . 
. 1 propose Francis as a patron saint for ecologists. 
‘s 
. 
The Technological Society 
a film hero of mine 
once said something 
like the following: 
“there’s a vast conspiracy afoot, through 
which the machines are taking over the world. 
its a war between men and machines and the 
machines are winning.” 
that’s not an uncommon paranoia in a world 
where railroad firemen are being replaced by 
deadman switches on the engineers, where 
the holy garbage is gobbled by whirring 
blades and artificial maelstroms, and 
where every masturbation is becoming mechanized. 
jacques ellul is pretty upset with the 
technological society, but looks past 
the machine to the formulas and formulators 
who midwife the machinery. he comes down pretty 
hard on political technocrats, and ends up 
making the word “technique” seem vaguely 
evil. 
good late at night reading after you've slammed 
your fingers in the refrigerator door. 
—jd 
[Suggested by Lee 
Swenson] 
In view of the very different forms of technique, there is no 
question of a technical religion. But there is associated with it the 
feeling of the sacred, which expresses itself in different ways. The 
way differs from man to man, but for all men the feeling of the 
sacred is expressed in this marvelous instrument of the power 
instinct which is always joined to mystery and magic. The 
worker brags about his job because it offers him joyous 
confirmation of his superiority. The young snob 
— 
speeds along at 100 m.p.h. in his Porsche. The technician 
contemplates with satisfaction the gradients of his charts, no Maier 
what their reference is. For these men, technique is in every way 
sacred: it is the common expression of human power without which 
they would find themselves poor, alone, naked, and stripped of all 
pretentions. They would no longer be the heroes, geniuses, or 
archangels which a motor permits them to be at little expense. 
The nation becomes the object of the technical state in that it 
furnishes all the different kinds of material substratum: men, 
money, economy, and so on. The state becomes a machine designed 
to exploit the means of-the nation. The relation between state and 
nation is henceforth completely different from what it had been 
before. The‘nationis no longer primarily a human, geographic, 
and historical entity. It is an economic power whose resources 
must be put to work, and to which a “‘yield’’ must be returned. 
In connection with this yield, the older technicians used the term 
maximum but the newer ones use the term optimum. Maximum 
yield is yield that exhausts and debases the resources of the state 
in a short interval of time; optimum yield is yield that attempts 
to safeguard substance and vitality, the typical example being the 
TVA. However this may be, we must regard the nation as an entity 
whose total resources are to be brought into action precisely because 
all the different techniques, mutually conditioning one another, 
have come into play. Once the technician has commenced his 
operations, he cannot recognize any limits. He cannot esteem or 
respect anything in the nation except the ‘‘nature of things.” This 
promotes the greater coherence of the state-nation which is so 
characteristic of our times. 
Machina ex Deo 
Lynn White, jr. 
1968; 186pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
The MIT Press 
50 Ames Street 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
It is said that after the ceremonies dedicating the great telescope 
on Mount Palomar, someone remarked to an astronomer, ‘Modern 
astronomy certainly makes man look insignificant, doesn’t it?”’ 
To which the astronomer replied, ‘‘But man is the astronomer!” 
There was a period in our own society when we needed witches and 
had them in enormous numbers. It began about the year 1300, 
ended somewhat after 1650, and is usually called the Renaissance. 
This was a time of torrential flux, of fearful doubt, marking the 
transition from the relative certainties of the Middle Ages to the 
new certainties which dominated the eighteenth and nineteenth 
centuries. 
THE 
TECHNOLOGICAL 
SOCIETY 
JACQUES ELLUL 
With an Introduction by Robert K. Merton 
A penetrating analysis 
of our technical 
civilization and of the effect of an increasingly 
standardized culture on the future of man 
A Vintage Book V-390/ $2.45 
The Technological Society 
Jacques Ellul 
1964; 449pp. 
$2.45 postpaid 
from 
Random House Inc. 
Random House Building 
201 East 50th Street 
New York, New York 10022 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
When the technical problem is well in hand, the professional 
humanists look at the situation and dub it ‘’humanist’’. This 
procedure suits the literati, moralists, and philosophers who are 
concerned about the human situation. What is more natural than 
for philosophers to say: “See how we are concerned with Man?”; 
and for their literary admirers to echo: “At last, a humanism which 
is not confined to playing with ideas but which penetrates the 
facts!"" Unfortunately, it is a historical fact that this shouting of 
humanism always comes after the technicians have intervened; for 
~~ 
a true humanism, it ought to have occurred before. This is nothing 
more than the traditional psychological maneuver called 
rationalizing. 
Our personal adaptability is limited. There are circumstances in 
which men.as we know them cannot live at all. They cannot live, for 
example, in concentration camps, even when these exist without 
supplementary tortures. There are conditions in which they can 
indeed continue to exist, but only with the loss of everything which 
makes them peculiarly human. In this connection we have only 
to think of certain tribes terrifyingly close to the animal level (and, 
in some aspects of life, even below it). We need only think of the 
Nazi torture apparatus, or of the degradation experience by the 
ordinary man in the ranks of the army in wartime. In view of these 
examples, we are entitled to ask what adaptation will really be like 
in the man-machine complex. The psychotechnicians have 
recognized that adaptation is not possible for everyone. In a 
completely technicized world, there will be whole categories of 
men who will have no place at all, because universal adaptation 
will be required. Those who are adaptable will be so rigorously 
adapted that no play in the complex will be possible. The complete 
joining of man and machine will have the advantage, however, of 
making the adaptation painless. And it will assure the technical 
efficiency of the individuals who survive it. 
