This! the first constructive 
is the injunction: “Draw a 
, 
prac ally everything else follows smoothly: a 
lation of ar Rngtic, of algebra, of 
ee of 
E scriptions of the universe by physicists 
functions of the nervous system 
7 jent a ai 
primary mystery which still puzzled Ludwig 
[ractatus Logico-Philosophicus, A. J. 
Ayer (ed), 
Press, New York, 1961, 166 pp.), namely that 
now Js constructed in such a way as to be 
descriptions i 
dS ects what is revealed will be 
, but what is concealed will again be reveal 
point, ven the most faithful reader may turn 
low can the conception of such a simple 
raw a distinction!” produce this wealth 
ae? me 
aet'e 
- 
5 
. 
nsi 
It is indeed amazing——but, in fact, it does. 
INSIG gf ats: 
) ali this i 
is Spencer Brown‘ ‘s ingenious choice for 
ation of an operator “| which does several things at 
is mark is a token for drawing a distinction, 
lrawing a circle on a sheet of paper which creates 
jon 
between points inside and outside of this 
by 
its asymmetry (the concave side being its inside) 
ides the possibility of indication; finally, it stands 
inst ction to cross the boundary of the first 
rossing from the state indicated on the 
of th ‘oken to the state indicated by the token 
Ce 
| 
no token indicates the unmarked state). 
v er, these operations may operate on each other, 
1g 
a 
primary arithmetic, an opportunity which 
us by a faulty notation in conventional arith- 
ape the fact that the world we know is constructed in 
in such a way as to be able) to see itself. 
ed amazing. 
Soh 
i 
uct 
view of what it sees, although this may appear 
Met 
Bot in reser < of the fact that it can see at all, 
‘itself. We may take it that the world undoubtedly 
distinct from itself), but, in any attempt to see 
ject, 
it must, equally undoubtedly, act so as to make 
from, and therefore false to, itselts In this condition 
vie aude itself. 
f 
hus to place or bie in flat land, sacrificing other 
th sake of appearance. Thus to.expound or put 
of i 
ignoring the reality or richness of what is so 
to take a view away from its prime a 
or 
ye 
cts of various alchemical 
thesis. about the time i get 
oe green weenies have 
s 
1969; 141 pp. 
$5.40 postpaid 
~ 
from: 
Blackwell's 
Broad Street 
Oxford, ENGLAND 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
G. SPENCER BROWN 
aa 
CONSTRUCTION 
Draw a distinction. 
CONTENT 
Call it the first distinction. 
Calf the space in which it is drawn the space severed or clover 
by the distinction. 
Call the parts of the space shaped by the severance or cleft 
the sides of the distinction or, alternatively, the spaces, states, or 
contents distinguished by the distinction. 
INTENT 
Let any mark, token, or sign be taken in any way with or with 
regard to the distinction as a signal. 
Call the use ofvany signal its intent. 
In all mathematics it becomes apparent, at some stage, that we 
have for some time been following a rule without being con- 
sciously aware of the fact. This might be described as the use 
of a covert convention. A recognizable aspect of the advancement 
of mathematics consists in the advancement of the consciousness 
of what we are doing, whereby the covert becomes overt. 
Mathematics is in this respect psychedelic. 
: 
e 
One of the most beautiful facts emerging from mathematical studies 
is this very potent relationship between the mathematical process 
and ordinary language. There seems to be no mathematical idea 
of any importance or profundity that is not mirrored, with an almost 
uncanny accuracy, in the common use of words, and this appears 
especially true when we consider words in their original, and 
sometimes long forgotten, senses. 
e 
The main difficulty in translating from the written to the verbal 
form comes from the fact that in mathematical writing we are 
free to mark the two dimensions of the plane, whereas in speech 
we can mark only the one dimension of time. 
Much that is unnecessary and obstructive in mathematics today 
appears to be vestigial of this limitation of the spoken word. 
e 
Any. evenly subverted equation of the second degree might be 
called, alternatively, evenly informed. We can see it over a sub- 
version (turning under) of the surface upon which it is written, 
or alternatively, as an in-formation (formation within) of what 
it expresses. 
Such an expression is thus informed in the sense of having its 
own form within it, and at the same time informed in the sense 
of remembering what has happened to it in the past. 
We need not suppose that this is exactly how memory happens in 
an animal, but there are certainly memories, so-called, constructed 
this way in electronic computers, and engineers have constructed 
such in-formed memories with magnetic relays for the greater 
part of the present century. 
We may perhaps look upon such memory, in this simplified in- 
formation, as a precursor of the more complicated and varied 
forms of memory and information in man and the higher animals. 
We can also regard other manifestations of the classical forms 
of physical or biological science in the same spirit. 
There is a tendency, especially today, to regard existence as the 
source of reality, and thus as a central concept. 
But as soon as 
it is formally examined (cf Appendix 2), existence [ex = out, 
stare = stand. Thus to exist may be considered as to stand 
outside, to be exiled.] is seen to be highly peripheral and, as 
such, especially corrupt (in the formal sense) and vulnerable. 
The concept of truth is more central, although still recog- 
nizably peripheral. 
!f the weakness of present-day science is 
that it centres round existence, the weakness of present-day 
logic is that it centres round truth. 
Throughout the essay, we find no need fo the concept of 
truth, apart from two avoidable appearances (true = open to 
proof) in the descriptive context. 
At no point, to say the 
least, is it a necessary inhabitant of the calculating forms. 
These forms are thus not only precursors of existence, they 
are also precursors of truth. 
It is, | am afraid, the intellectual block which most of us 
come up against at the points where, to experience the world 
clearly, we must abandon existence to truth, truth to indication, 
indication to form, and form to void, that has so held up the 
development of logic and its mathematics. 
It is the business of mythology proper, and of the fairy tale, to 
reveal the specific dangers and techniques of the dark interior 
way from tragedy to comedy. Hence the incidents are 
fantastic and ‘unreal’: they represent psychological, not physical, 
triumphs. Even when the legend is of an actual historical personage, 
the deeds of victory are rendered, not in lifelike, but in dreamlike 
figurations; for the point is not that such-and-such could be done 
on earth, this other, more important, primary thing had to be 
brought to pass within the labyrinth that we all know and visit 
in our dreams. The passage of the mythological hero may be over- 
ground, incidentally; fundamentally it is inward—into depths 
where obscure resistances are overcome, and long lost, forgotten 
powers are revivified, to be made available for the transfiguration 
of the world. This deed accomplished, life no longer suffers 
hopelessly under the terrible mutilations of ubiquitous disaster, 
battered by time, hideous throughout space; but with its horror 
visible still, its cries of anguish still tumultuous, it becomes 
penetrated by an all-suffusing, all-sustaining love, and a knowledge 
of its own unconquered power. Something of the light that 
‘blazes invisible within the abysses of its normally opaque 
materiality breaks forth, with an increasing uproar. The dreadful 
mutilations are then seen as shadows, only, of an immanent, 
imperishable eternity; time yields to glory; and the world sings 
with the prodigious, angelic, but perhaps finally monotonous, 
siren music of the spheres, Like happy families, the myths and the 
worlds redeemed are all alike. 
MA. 
hl, 
Parable of the Beast 
-_ if you are into molecular memory, chemical communication, 
slime mold colonies, time pulse perception, third eyes, acid, 
serotonin, intramural aggression, and other types of meta- 
mysticism, then bleibtreu probably has something for you, 
too. 
he’s trying to put instincts back into science and take a little 
of the speculation out of the name “Homo sapiens”, 
through an introduction to the study of ethology. 
readable, maybe reliable. 
[Reviewed by J.D. Smith. Suggested by 
David Schwartz] 
“Fascinating” 
— Alan 
W. Watts 
“Extremely relevant™ 
Marshall 
Mc shan 
The Parable of the Beast 
John N. Bleibtreu 
1968; 304 pp. 
$1 .50 postpaid 
from: 
Collier Books 
866 Third Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Beast 
ieee ster 
nacenels 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
It seems now in retrospect that any naturalist would have realized 
long ago that by referring to time, to the position of the 
planets, the moon and the sun, animals might most easily 
orient themselves in space. Unlike human beings, most animals 
inhabit either a barren or unstablelandscape—to fish in the 
sea, birds migrating high in the nighttime sky the landscape 
is barren. For all practical purposes they inhabit “‘pure’’ space, 
empty space. Those euclidean points of reference by which we 
large mammals ordinarily locate ourselves are not available 
to them. Many insects confront a similar problem in orienting 
themselves; their landscape is unstable—a puff of wind, the 
footprint of a larger animal, can utterly destroy the familiarity, 
and therefore, the usefulness of landmarks. Some stable 
reference system which these creatures could employ must 
be imagined. And what more stable system than time, that 
innate sense of planetary cycles with which all living organisms 
were provided from the beginning? Yet it has been so long since 
man made use of such a system innately, that it has quite 
literally slipped his mind. Seamen and aviators, when confronted 
with this same kind of barren landscape, must resort to a similar 
system of time orientation in space, but since this kind of time 
consicousness is no longer innate, human navigators must 
be provided with elaborate star charts, moon and sun tables, 
sextants , chronometers, and all manner of paraphernalia so 
that reason can operate in those areas where “‘instinct’’ has 
atrophied. 
In every human society the act of communal eating has 
social implications far more important than the simple act of 
satisfying individual hunger. Of course it is easier to prepare food 
for several people to eat simultaneously. But there is more to the 
act of social food sharing acts than that. In most primitive 
societies the sharing of food acts as an aggression suppressor. 
It is considered an unseemly act to attack one’s dinner partner, 
regardless of the provocation. The fact that food sharing enhances 
the possibility of creating intimate relationships is well 
understood by businessmen, fund raisers, politicians, et al. 
Family gatherings are far more meaningful if the gathering 
takes place around a dining table. All ceremonies are made more 
intimate by food sharing, and when a ceremony excludes the 
sharing of food, it is likely to be formal and the participants 
isolated from one another. 
tn many cultures, including our own, the more ceremonial the 
meal the more divorced it is from simple needs of nourishment, 
the more likely it will be that a behavior-altering chemical will 
be served with the food. This may be wine of some kind, or in 
cultures such as Islam, which forbid alcohol, another kind of 
chemical intoxicant. Even tea and coffee are stimulants, and 
must be considered in this category of behavior-altering chemicals. 
If the purpose of the ceremony is aimed at conviviality rather than 
intimacy, the chemical agent is stressed rather than the food 
Particle. But even at the modern cocktail party, where the 
alcohol is far more important than the food, there is still a 
token food offering made for the ritual sake of making a harmonious 
combination of these assoicated acts. Among tobacco smokers, 
smoking may be a substitute for food exchange, and the offering 
of a smoke is well understood in all tobacco-using cultures as 
a gesture of intimacy. 
THE HERO 
The Hero With A Thousand Faces 
Joseph Campbell 
1949, 1970; 416 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
The World Publishing Company 
2231 West 110th Street 
Cleveland, Ohio 44102 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
1 
