an, 
iF 
e 
‘thing at a time. Pine he will expand a eee 
1e book to include Gurdjieff, the fia tive American 
nd Eampeny. Inc. 
:, New prork 10017 
EARTH CATALOG 
temporary disillusionment with religion has revealed itself 
eligious disillusionment. Men are moving away from the 
id rappings of Judaism and Christianity not because they 
pped searching for transcendental answers to the 
| questions of human life, but because that search 
ation beyond measure. 
ns said that every time and place has its own despair. The 
California i 
is the despair of.people relentlessly getting 
astic society and ours is surely not that ours is more real, 
n this monastery everyone has a common aim. Moreover, 
is for themselves: each to awaken to his true nature, each 
is own way.” 
such a sommunity, there exists a constant danger that in the 
eo charity and kindness someone will find my way for me, 
tly or indirectly 
tell me what to do, what is good and 
s a result, | may find a way, but not my own way; | will 
nature, but not necessarily my own nature. 
c ‘ople 
y, “If we have a perfect social construction, we will 
th e ai spealties. But as long as there is human nature, 
ead of the material world. Most people who are interested 
are more or less critical of our social condition, 
sitting on his bed. Naked from the waist up. | think 
vere two other men in the room. And Baba just—beamed at 
,m an, | always have difficulty talking about Baba. | mean, I’m 
2 
having visions or hallucinations. 
For me, it was just 
xtraordinary light, like his head was the center of 
nating in all directions. It filled everything. To the extend 
s started forcibly peras out of my eyes like a 
5a North American Indians 
Beiribaiogy 
emed a little like 
ized graverobbing 
me. v. 
ok does Bereiing 
ales survive. it is a 
readable collection of farout stories. 
=id ; 
os 
ne 
TALES OF THE 
ea “ge iteciea: 
INDIA! 
is Bitty Phomanewne 
_ 
— 
S 
? 
7 
ancisco State, has eee f 
A collection af 
the essential writings mF the eight major 
religions—Hindu, Buddhist, Confucianist, Taoist, Zoro- 
_astrian, Judeo-Christian, and Mohammedan. Super for 
dipping into as literature & poetry; more than adequate 
at conveying the essential sameness, rather than the 
differences between religious philosophies. 
Softly mind-expanding. 
[Reviewed by Diana Shugart] 
qhe BIBLE 
OF THE WORLD 
The Bible of the World 
Robert O. Ballou, editor 
Edited by ROBERT O. BALLOU 
1939; 1415 pp. 
in 
collaboration with FRIEDRICH STIEGELBERG, 
PH.D. $.7.M. (Columbia University ) and 
‘ 
with the assistance 
and. advice 
of HORACE 
$1 2.00 postaaid 
L. PRIESS, rHt.p. (Columbia University) 
from: 
Viking Press 
625 Madison Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
4 
Naw Yerk.- THE VIKING Press - Memouix 
“O Partha, behold these Kurus gathered together.” 
Then saw Partha standing there, uncles and grandfathers, teachers, 
mother’s brothers, cousins, sons and grandsons, comrades, fathers- 
in-law and benefactors also in both armies; seeing all these kinsmen 
thus standing arrayed, Arjuna, deeply moved to pity, this uttered 
in sadness: 
“Seeing these my kinsmen, O Krishna, arrayed, eager to fight, 
my limbs fail and my mouth is parched, my body quivers, and 
my hair stands on end, Gandiva slips from my hand, and my 
skin bums all over, | am not able to stand, my mind is whirling, 
“and | see adverse omens, O Kesava. Nor do | foresee any advantage 
| 
from slaying kinsmen in battle. 
“For | desire not victory, O Krishna, nor kingdom, nor pleasures; 
what is kingdom to us, O Govinda, what enjoyment, or even life? 
Those for whose sake we desire kingdom, enjoyments and 
pleasures, they stand here in battle, abandoning life and riches— 
teachers, fathers, sons, as well as grandfathers, mother's brothers, 
fathers-in-law, grandsons, brothers-in-law, and other relatives. 
These | do not wish to kill, though myself slain, 
O Madhusudana, 
even for the sake of the kingship of the three worlds; how then 
for earth? 
“Slaying these sons of Dhritarashtra, what pleasure can be ours, 
O Janardana? Killing these desperadoes, sin will take hold of 
us. Therefore we should not kill the sons of Dhritarashtra, our 
relative; for how, killing our kinsmen, may we be happy, O Madhava? 
Although these, with intelligence overpowered by greed, see 
no guilt in the destruction of a family, no crime in hostility 
to friends, why should not we learn to turn away from such a 
sin, O Janardana, who see the evils in the destruction of a family? 
In the destruction of a family the immemorial family traditions 
perish; in the perishing of tradition, lawlessness overcomes the 
whole family; owing to predominance of lawlessness, O Krishna, 
the women of the family become corrupt; women corrupted, 
O Varshneya, there ariseth caste-confusion; this confusion 
draggeth to hell the slayers of the family, and the family; for their 
ancestors fall, deprived of rice-balls and libations. Bt 
By these caste-confusing misdeeds of the slayers of the family, the 
everlasting caste customs and family customs are abolished. 
The abode of the men whose family customs are extinguished, 
O Janardana, is everlastingly in hell. Thus have we heard. Alas! 
in committing a greet sin are we engaged, we who are 
endeavouring to kill our kindred from greed of the pleasures 
of kingship. If the sons of Dhritarashtra, weapon in hand, should 
slay me, unresisting, unarmed, in the battle, that would for me 
be the better.” 
The beaver and the porcupine were great friends and went 
about everywhere together. The porcupine often visited the 
beaver’s house, but the latter did not like to have him come 
7 
because he left quills there..One time, when the porcupine 
i 
said that he wanted to go out to the beaver's house, the beaver 
? 
said, ‘All right, | will take you out on my back.” He started, 
but instead of going to his house he took him to a stump in the 
very middle of the lake. Then he said to him, ‘This is my house,” 
left him there, and went ashore. 
While the porcupine was upon this stump he began singing a song, 
“‘Let it become frozen. Let it become frozen so that | can 
4 
cross to Wolverine-man’s place.'” He meant that he wanted to’ * 
walk ashore on the ice. So the Shales of the lake froze, and he 
walked home. 
Some time after this, when the two friends were again playing 
together, the porcupine said, “You come now. It is my turn to 
carry you on my back.”’ Then the beaver got on the porcupine’s 
back, and the porcupine took him to the top of a very high tree, 
after which he. came down and left him. For a long time the beaver 
idi-not know how to get down, but finally he climbed 
down, and they saw that this is what gives the broken appearance to 
tree bark. 
Grizzly Bear and Doe, the two wives of Chickenhawk, were pounding 
acorns. When they had finished, one of them said, ’ 
‘Letqus go down 
to the creek.and leach the meal.’ While they. were waiting for the 
meal to soak, they agreed to hunt one another's heads, for lice. Doe 
looked first in Grizzly’s hair. “You: have no lice,’ she said. “Well. 
then,” said Grizzly, 1 will look in yours." " When inshepsearch an. 
reached the Doe's neck’ she ‘sprinkled in some sand.. eu: have, - 
. overborne by pies. 
ising thus spoken on the battlefield, Arjuna sank down on the 
: 
seat of the chariot, casting away his bow and arrow, his mind 
Ras 
(The Bhagavad-Gita} 
THE TWO MASTERS 
A king said to a Shaikh in conversation: ‘Ask me for something in 
the way of a gift.” 
The Shaikh said, ‘Are you not ashamed to speak so to me? Be 
above this. | have two slaves, and despicable they are; but those 
two are rulers and lords over you. 
The king said, “What are those two? This is an error.” 
He replied, “The one is ‘anger’ and the other ‘sensuality.’ ”’ 
[from Mohammedan Scriptures] 
THE SHEPHERD'S PSALM 
The Lord is my shepherd; | shall not want. 
He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: he leadeth me beside 
the still waters. 
He restoreth my soul: he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness 
for his name’s sake. 
Yea, though | walk through the valley of the shadow of death, 
| will fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff 
they comfort me. 
Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies: 
thou anointest my head with oil; my cup runneth over. 
Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, 
and | will dwell in the house of the Lord for ever. 
[Old Testament] 
PLEA TO AN ANCESTOR 
Alas for me, who am a little child, 
On whom has devolved the unsettled state! 
Solitary am | and full of distress. 
Oh! my great father, 
All thy life long, thou wast filial. 
Thou didst think of my great grandfather, 
Seeing him, as it were, ascending and descending in the court; 
|, the little child, 
Day and night will be as reverent. 
Ohlye great kings, 
As your successor, | will strive not to forget you. 
[from Confucianist Scriptures] 
OF RICHES (According to Matthew) 
And, behold, one came and said unto him, Good Master, what 
good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life? 
And he said unto him, 
Why callest thou me good? there is none good but one, that is, God: 
but if thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments. 
He saith unto him, Which? Jesus said, 
Thou shalt do no murder, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou 
shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear false witness, Honour thy father 
and thy mother: and, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. 
The young man saith unto him, All these things have I kept from 
my youth up: what lack I yet? Jesus said unto him, 
If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the 
poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come and follow me. 
But when the young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful: 
for he had great possessions. 
Then said Jesus unto his disciples, 
Verily | say unto you, That a rich man shall hardly enter into the 
kingdom of heaven. And again | say unto you, It is easier for a 
camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter 
the kingdom of God. 
When his disciples heard it, they were exceedingly amazed, saying, Who 
then can be saved? But Jesus beheld them, and said unto them, 
With men this is impossible; but with God all things are possible. 
many lice,”’ she said, “I will chew them” “’Ukkal! ukka!”’ cried 
Doe, “hold on there."’ Biting her head off, she killed her. Taking 
Doe's head and both lots of acorn meal she went back to the house. 
She put the head in the fire and when the eyes burst with the heat 
she told the children it was only the white oak log cracking in 
the fire. ‘I think it is our mother’s head,” said one of the Doe’s 
children. ‘Go a long way off and play,” said Grizzly. “You won't 
be permitted to live long,” they.heard their mother’s hair say to 
them. 
. 
The two bear children and the two fawns went out to play. “Let 
us play smoke-each-other-out in this hollow log,’’ suggested 
the fawns. The bears agreed and the fawns went in first. ‘That's 
enough, that’s enough,” they cried. ‘‘Now you go in,” they-told 
the bears. The fawns fanned the smoke into the log unt the bears 
were smothered. Going back to the house, one of them held out 
what she had in her hand.and said, “‘Here is a skunk we killed in 
alog.” 
“‘Thank you, my niece; after a while | will make a meal 
upon them,” replied Grizzly. 
> 
“She is eating her children,” she heard some one Say. ‘‘What did 
you say?” she asked. ’’First you killed a person, and now you are 
eating your own children’s hands."’ She ran after the children who 
had been taunting her. When she came near them she called ina 
pleasant voice, ‘‘Well, come home." They ran up on a ridge and 
barely escaped being caught. Finally they came to.a place where 
Crane was fishing by the river. “Grandfather, put-your neck across 
and let us go over on it. An eu woman. is after us, Put your neck 
across." 
They crossed over safely and running to the top of a ridge hid in 
a hole in a rock. When Grizzly came, Crane put his neck across again 
for a bridge, but when she was half way over he gave it a sudden 
twist. She went floating down the middle of the stream. 
