_ Factory Stores 
The factory store is one of the first places to go 
_ 
if you want to get certain merchandise cheaply. This guide 
__ lists direct-from-the-manufacturer outlets for clothing and 
__ other personal and household items, but there are many other 
manufactured goods to be sought out in the same way. 
_ This guide is only regional, but it’s listed here to 
_ stimulate bargain hunters in other parts of the country as 
_ well as readers who live in the New England area. Why 
ouldn’t someone go out and compile the same sort of 
valuable information for whatever area they lived in, and 
make it available through the community media serving 
the people there? You probably have enough friends, each 
_ with his own favorite source of inexpensive goods, that 
you'd be able to start your research with lots of good 
dees Leads, - 
—HH 
Factory Stores of Western New England 
enopeane Guide 
A, 
Miser & A. Pennypincher 
$1 95 postpaid 
from: 
Pequot Press, Inc. 
Essex, Connecticut 06426 
john Brothers supplies chiefly the stricter Mennonite 
orders and the various orders of the Amish Mennonite 
people all over the country. Since the Amish have 
anaged communal living successfully for about 350 
years, | figure at least some of their practices must be 
a valid, Their clothing in particular is comfortable, durable 
ind of low price. | can recommend from experience their 
broadfall work pants (no fly: broad button flap like 
derhosen in front), overshirts (plain jacket with two 
jool, with cape). Many hard to find practical items listed, 
as well as a broad selection of rather plain yard goods. Service 
Catalog 
free 
from: 
Gohn Brothers 
Middlebury, Indiana 46540 
MEN’S BROADFALL WORK PANTS 
No. 1190 10-oz. Sanf. Blue Denim.................560655 $4.49 pr. 
No. 44 9-oz. Sanf. Grey Covert...........:..00seeeeeeees $4.49 pr.» 
No. 55 9-oz. Sanf. Blue Saddle Denim................... $4.49 pr. 
66 9-0z. Sanf. Grey Saddle Denim.................. $4.49 pr. 
With Cape 
$69.95 
100% navy blue melton. Made in single or double breasted 
style. 
Send for samples. 
Complete instructions on how to 
measure are furnished on request. 
NAVY BLUE CORDUROY COATS 
.... 
Sizes 32 to 44 chest measure. 60% wool blanket lined, hooks 
and eyes. No outside pockets. Two inside pockets. We have all 
new patterns now. Cut with very roomy armholes and large 
LADIES’ BLACK SHOES 
Low Heels. Black Cushion Crepe Soles. Oxfords. 
No. 549M C width, sizes 4 to 9, Plain Toe............... $6.49 pr. 
~ No. 49WW E width, sizes 5 to 9, Plain Toe............. $6.59 pr. 
No. 560 C width, Slip-on Moc. Toe. Sizes 4 to 9 ........ $6.59 pr. 
No. 386 E 
width. Wedge. Plain Toe. Sizes 4 to 9 ...... $6.98 pr. 
Suburban Guerrillaism 
Someday, after I’ve lived in the suburbs longer, I’d like to 
write an essay about my 
vision of the suburban guerrilla. He’s 
a definite phenomenon. There’s a sizeable population of them 
here in the San Francisco Bay area, men and women out to 
enjoy the advantages of town life without paying the 
customary penalties. 
Every suburban guerrilla probably has 
his own definition of himself, but 
my own sense of him is 
this: he has a job, but not a career. He likes the comforts, 
but doesn’t want to go into debt for them. He makes 
distinctions between things that are good and things that are 
merely expensive. He may go in for elegance or he may dig 
the funky scene. Hippies, after all, are urban guerrillas. 
But hippies are kids mainly grooving on each other in special 
enclaves, and that isn’t quite what I’m talking about. /’m 
talking about people who see the possibility of a rich and 
abundant adult life within the context of those 
same suburban communities generally condemned as such 
hopeless wastelands that ‘real’ life cannot be supported there. 
The suburban guerrilla | have in mind is one of the suburbs, 
as well as in them. 
He challenges the assumption that the suburban context is 
hard, absolute, impenetrable, like plastic. To him, more 
like a piece of cheesecloth, full of holes to breathe through, 
and to wind in and out of, like a morning glory, or a pole 
bean. He borrows much of his point of view from the orientals. 
He realizes that life goes on in the suburbs just like every 
other place, even if most of the people there are too blind 
and deaf to see and hear it. The guerrilla lives by his wits, one 
day at a time. This makes him alert and alive. He has a talent 
for cultivating the holes in his cheesecloth. One hole might 
simply be the way the world is at six a.m. Another might be 
first-hand knowledge of all the footpaths in the neithborhood. 
He creates his freedom here and there and now and then, and 
by diligence winds up with as much as any conscious man 
anywhere. His landscape is small and patterned, but there are 
discoveries to be made on it, discoveries that can feed his own 
life at the same time they are important to the culture. | 
know of one elderly couple that subsists almost entirely 
on the food they raise in their organic garden in the back- 
yard of their home in suburban Menlo Park. As far as |’m 
concerned, the trip those two people are on, the life they 
are proving possible, is the most inspiring radical activity in 
all of San Francisco’s radical environs. 
One needn’t romanticize his life as much as all that, however, 
to find Champagne Living on a Beer Budget worthwhile 
manual. Anybody interested in bargains ought to have it. It’s 
loaded with facts, tips and information on good deals in all 
the important categories. Food, clothing, shelter, real estate, 
automobiles, household appliances, medical things, taxation, 
funerals, recreation, retirement, consumer co-ops, travel, 
babies, insurance, charities, and more. It’s entertainingly 
written; yet the rhetoric never gets in the way of the 
information. The people who wrote it obviously want to beat 
the money rap as much as any of us. They also want to 
live well. Their book will be of considerable help to other 
people trying to do both, simultaneously. 
How to Live on Nothing has a /ot in common with Champagne 
Living on a Beer Budget, but there’s enough difference 
between the two to make them more companion pieces than 
competitors. The emphasis in Champagne Living /s on the 
cheap accumulation of necessary things. How to Live on 
Nothing covers some of that ground too, but its main 
concern is the development of personal skills to help you 
get free of the need to pay people like carpenters, plumbers, 
doctors and real estate agents to live your practical (that 
is to say, your “‘real”’ or “concrete”’) life for you. 
Of course there’s no such thing as “living on nothing.” The 
book would be more properly titled, Living for Something. 
For in a curious, unintended, Zen sort of way, that’s what 
this book is about: living simply to establish familiarity 
with the details of your world, with ordinary local mysteries 
and miracles such as the wiring system in your house, the 
fabric of the garments you wear, the truth of the food you 
eat, and the fuel you burn. Behind the information, the 
advice, the hints, and the facts, this book is about coming 
to see things as they are, through your own eyes, instead of 
the hired eyes of some expert or other. /t’s about training 
yourself to trust yourself, and trusting yourself to train 
yourself, until you’re able to claim your right as a human 
to be competent with your hands. 
Finally no one is ever competent with his hands until he 
uses them, and flipping through how-to-do-it books can 
hardly be described as manual labor. So perhaps the best 
way to recommend a book like this is to call it literature 
and emphasize its inspirational value. | kind of like that 
idea. I’ve thought the same things about the Whole Earth 
Catalog in general, which brings up an interesting question: 
if the ultimate test of a good manual is its success as art, 
does that mean that the ultimate test of a good novel is + 
its uses as a manual? We'll see. Meanwhile, here’s a good 
75 cent how-to-do-it book that could be a help to you 
on your next trip, real or imagined, into the New Wilderness. 
[Reviewed by Gurney Norman. How To Live On Nothing 
suggested by Jim Martin] 
1 Fe, 
For a dollar a year, you can subscribe to Our Public Lands, a quarterly 
magazine telling how to buy public lands, where to hunt, fish, or 
camp; also details of ‘Alaskan opportunities’. Order from the Super- 
intendent of Documents, Washington D. C., 20402. 
When it comes to air travel you can avail yourself of bargains if 
you'll fly major airlines on weekends...fly by night...forgo the 
two glasses of champagne in first-class quarters...buy a ‘run-of-the- 
airline’ ticket on a regional western carrier if you live in the 
Eastern half of the country...travel to Europe in off-seasons...fly 
a triangle, with a stop at an intermediate glamour city thrown 
in for a few dollars extra...travei 
a heavy-volume, frequently 
scheduled commuter flight...forgo reservations and fly for halt 
fare, on a standby basis, at least on one airline...or register as a 
first-time airline rider on another and make any round trip in 
the system for $25...buy a package which wraps up hotel, enter- 
tainment; and air fare. 
Homes in the path of proposed freeways have usually been bought 
by the city or county and are rented on an annual lease basis until 
time for demolition. Friends of ours are renting a $30,000 house 
for $85 a month—until the bulldozers claim it. They simply called 
the city switchboard and asked to speak to someone about renting 
city/county-owned homes. 
Homes being rented are often not due for demolition for eight or 
ten years. They’re bought up far in advance of need so there won't 
be last minute snags or holdouts. 
Finally we called eight establishments under Typewriters, Rental. 
For comparable models of a Smith-Corona electric portable, two 
companies wanted $25 per month; two wanted $22.50; three were 
asking $20; one $15; one $12.50. We finally rented a nearly new 
machine from a firm that charged $9 monthly on a two-month 
basis. 
[Champagne Living on a Beer Budget] 
Champagne 
Living on a Beer Budget 
Mike and 
Marilyn Ferguson 
1968; 247 pp. 
$.75 postpaid 
from: 
G.P. Putnam's Sons 
200 Madison Avenue 
New York, New York 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
How to Live on Nothing 
Joan Ranson Shortney 
1961; 336 pp. 
$.75 postpaid 
from: 
Pocket Books 
A Division of 
Simon & Schuster, Inc. 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, New York 10020 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Motor-driven equipment is an increasingly heavy expense as our 
homes become more mechanized. Most of us, however, pay for 
unnecessary appliance repairs through ignorance of how to avoid 
them. It’s not necessary to try to rival the skills of a professional 
repairman. Simply keep him away by knowing a few rules of 
care and repair. Car engines aren't the only ones to suffer strain 
in cold weather. A hard start strains any motor. Y our washing 
machine standing on the back porch in a temperature below 40 
degrees F. must stand half a day inside in the warmth before you 
do the wash. If you keep your sewing machine in the cold spare 
room, apply the same rule. Even the motor-driven grinder out 
in the unheated garage needs warming before running. Vacuum- 
cleaner, freezer, and refrigerator motors all need warmth before 
starting. 
BREAKFAST WHEAT MEAL. Wash 2% cups (1 pound) wheat 
kernels. Spread on cookie sheet to dry and toast in moderate 
(350 degrees) oven for % hour. Put kernals through coffee 
grinder, adjusting to fine if you want meal, coarser if you want 
grits or groats. Makes 3 cups. Store in cool place. To make 4 
small or 2 large servings and add concentrated milk values, mix 
% cup wheat meal with % cup dry milk solids. Mix to paste in 
% cup cold water. Add to 1% cups boiling water with % teaspoon 
salt. Stir over low heat 3 minutes. When smooth and thick, add 
a teaspoon of honey or raisins or other dried fruit or omit 
sweetening and serve with butter or cream as your taste dictates. 
A food and nutrition chapter would not be complete without 
mention of a food bargain that is unknown to most of us. It 
is MPF, the Multi-Purpose Food, developed at the California 
Institute of Technology and merchandised through the Meals 
for Millions Foundation, 1800 Olympic, Santa Monica, CA. 
This is a non-profit organization dedicated to relieving and 
preventing starvation and malnutrition throughout the world. 
Meals for Millions supplies MPF for 3 cents a meal to famine 
19) 
[How to Live on Nothing] 
