ico oe 
Sauna 
The only book available on Saunas: what they are, their 
history, how to use and enjoy, and how to build one. 
Although the construction details are not extensive, there 
is a list of about 20 Sauna manufacturers who will send you 
free construction plans, in hopes that you'll buy a heating 
device from them. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Stan Gould] 
Sauna: The Finnish Bath 
1965; 87pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
Stephen Greene Press 
120 Main Street 
Brattleboro, Vt. 05301 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The simplest form of the family sauna is a one-room hut built of 
logs, with a large rudimentary stove upon which rocks are placed... 
The heat of the sauna is non-radiant: that is, it does not radiate 
directly toward the bather but rather is absorbed by the stones which 
emit the heat into the air. The indirect heat is gentle and constant. 
.... 
The stones are heated until they become red hot. 
. 
. ideal temperature 
190-200 degrees . 
. 
. water is thrown on the stones but the air 
remains dry because moisture is instantly absorbed by the wooden 
walls. . . traditional sauna includes beating with leafy birth branches, 
washing, and a plunge in a nearby lake or roll in the snow outside. 
Then follows a necessary rest while the body cools down completely. 
e 
The need for a perspiration bath has arisen in those countries where 
people have had to do exceptionally heavy physical work ... After 
heavy work the limbs had to be made supple and strengthened 
before work could continue. 
BUILDING A FINNISH SAUNA 
A practical arrangement: 1) small stools used as steps; 2) steps; 
3) rail for propping up feet; 4) platform; >) headrest. 
\f possible the sauna should face west, as people usually go into the 
sauna in the evening, very often at sunset. Then the rays of the 
setting sun streaming into the sauna room give one a feeling of 
intense calm. And, lying on the platform, looking out on the lake, 
one experiences a delicious foretaste of what the cool waters will 
offer the bather who plunges from the heat of the sauna into their 
depths. 
Interior walls and ceiling are often built of kiln-dried, unfinished 
redwood, which does not shrink, does not warp, and is a poor heat 
conductor. Another excellent wood is cedar, which not only 
shares redwood’s good properties but also emits a pleasant odor and 
does not stain with moisture. 
Nailing should be done with hot-dipped galvanized nails to avoid 
stains from rust; nails should be counter-sunk whenever it is 
likely that a bather will touch them in the hot room. Tongue-in- 
groove paneling disposes of this problem in wall construction; 
benches can be screwed from below. 
Boffing Equipment 
We hereby nominate Jack Nottingham for a Nobel Peace 
Prize for the first significant advance in weaponry since the 
encounter group. As Gerd Stern used to say a lot, “contact 
is the only love,” and these foam swords permit contact—with 
an un-pulled punch and no corporal damage. However the 
release of interpersonal energy is only one of the uses of 
boffers. They are a fine game, builder of psychic and physical 
skill. For one thing you learn about temper: it’s an obstacle 
and a hazard—you get cut to pieces every time. You learn 
about other stuff as well, no teacher required; the wisdom 
is inherent in the doing. As the inventor proclaimed at 
the end of a public boffing match at the Fillmore West: 
“The sword is mightier than the pen.” 
—SB 
[Suggested by Heliotrope] 
Boffing Equipment 
(2 foam swords, 2 hand protectors, 2 goggles) 
$11.00 postpaid 
from: 
Jack Nottingham 
190 Emmet Court 
San Francisco, Ca. 94110 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
* 
Waterbeds 
There’s a lot of talk about waterbeds these days. We've been 
sleeping on one for a year now, and it’s been a good year. | t’s 
like swimming without getting wet. It’s womb. It rocks and 
glugs. You feel good with two hours less sleep. A variety 
of wave motions can be induced, adding interest to life’s 
little pleasures. If the box is made take-apart, you can take 
your bed with you in a small package. It’s a strong 
personality to have in your house. (People have broken into 
our place just to sleep in the bed.) “Real” waterbeds are 
the ones from Innerspace Environments, designed by 
Charles Hall who spent two years perfecting the bit. They’re 
heated to body temperature and controlled by a sensitive 
thermostat. 
Unheated waterbeds are nearly useless because 
they take out all your body heat. A cheap control will allow 
too great a temperature range and you'll either bake or 
freeze in cycles, They can be any size, but they’re a heavy 
trip. A 6’x7’x10” deep is more than a ton. Hospital 
versions prevent bedsores. Any version gives nearly perfect, 
even support; no more sore necks and stiff arms. There ‘s 
really nothing quite like it. Once in, you're hooked. 
[Reviewed by J. Baldwin] 
Information 
free 
from: 
Inner Space Environments, Inc. 
584 Pacific Street 
San Francisco, California 94133 
King size (86"x72’’x15"), with heater, 125 Ibs. 
— $595.00 
Queen size and Twin size in preparation. 
The Pleasure Pit. (8 feet by 8 feet) 
$995.00 
with sound system $1 995.00 
