“y i 
Porealipinde ¢ 
ecological 
rat on 
asa peripheral i 
issue. 
ving to the country, 
[Reviewed 
by 
Rosella 
Hips] 
The Dialectic of Sex: The Case for 
Feminist Revolution 
Shulamith Firestone 
1970, 274 pp. 
_ = 
$6.95 postpaid 
from: 
William Morrow & Co. Inc. 
105 Madison Ave. 
New York, New York 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
ie to a peculiar set of national conditions. |f and when 
- conditions change, the kibbutz reverts to ‘‘normal.”’ For 
le, 
women on the far left kibbutz on which | stayed were 
* 
Rasberry Exercises 
free school knowhow 
with a forum format, 
_ how to start a school 
_ could be important collection 
point for new ideas. 
solid children’s lib philosophy. 
ai 
—jd 
Rasberry Exercises—How to Start 
Your Own School & Make a Book 
Salli Rasberry and Robert Greenway 
1970; 125pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
The Freestone Publishing Company 
440 Bohemian Highway 
Freestone (Sebastopol) California 95472 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
if 
Thus never has there been a true instance of full membership of 
women and children in the larger society. The modern social 
experiment, like the matriarchal stage of human history, signifies only 
a relative loosening within the larger movement toward consolidation 
of male supremacy through history. It never altered the fundamental 
condition of sex oppression. Any benefits that accrued to women and 
children were incidental to other social objectives—which themselves 
were obstructed by the vast, unrecognized substratum of sex oppression. 
Because their ideology was not founded on the minimal feminist 
premises above, these experiments never achieved even the more 
limited democratic goals their (male) theorists and leaders had 
predicted. However, their success within narrow spheres shows that 
the biological family unit is amenable to change. But we would have 
to control totally its institutions to eliminate the oppression altogether. 
In the transitional phase, adult genital sex and the exclusiveness 
of couples within the household might have to be maintained in 
order for the unit to be able to function:smoothly, with a minimum 
of internal tension caused by sexual frictions. It is unrealistic to 
impose theories of what ought to be on a psyche already 
fundamentally organized around specific emotional needs. And this is 
why individual attempts to eliminate sexual possessiveness are 
now always inauthentic. We would do much better to concentrate 
on altering the social structures that have produced this psychical 
Organization, allowing for the eventual—if not in our lifetime— 
fundamental restructuring (or should | say destructuring?) of our 
psychosexuality. 
(5) The explosive concrete complexities of sexuality. 
But to grant that the sexual imbalance of power is biologically 
based 
is not to lose our case. We are no longer just animals. And 
the Kingdom of Nature does not reign absolute. As Simone de 
Beauvoir herself says: 
The theory of historical materialism has brought to light some 
important truths. Humanity is not an animal species, it is a 
historical reality. Human society is an antiphysis—in a sense it is 
against nature; it does not passively submit to the presence of 
nature but rather takes over the control of nature on its 
own behalf. This arrogation is not an inward, subjective operation; 
it is accomplished objectively in practical action. 
Thus, the ‘‘natural” is not necessarily a “human” value. Humanity 
has begun to outgrow nature: we can‘no longer justify the 
maintenance of a discriminatory sex class system on grounds of 
its origins in Nature. Indeed, for pragmatic reasons alone it is 
beginning to look as if we must get rid of it. (See chapter 10) 
Wilhelm Reich in the Sexual Revolution summarized the specific 
objective reasons for the failure of the Russian communes in the 
best analysis to date: 
(1) Confusion of the leadership and evasion of the problem. 
(2) The laborious task of reconstruction in general given the cultural 
backwardness of Old Russia, the war, and famine. 
(3) Lack of theory. The Russion Revolution was the first of its 
kind. No attempt had been made to deal with emotional-sexual- 
familial problems in the formulation of basic revolutionary 
theory. (Or, in our terms, there had been a lack of ‘consciousness 
raising’ about female/child oppression and a lack of radical feminism 
prior to the revolution itself.) 
(4) The sex-negative psychological structure of the individual, 
created and reinforced throughout history by the family, hindered 
the individual's liberation from this very structure. As Reich puts it: 
\It must be remembered that human beings have a tremendous 
fear of 
just that kind of life for which they long so much 
but which is at variance with their own structure. 
What is keeping marriage so alive? | have pointed out some of the 
cultural bulwarks of marriage in the twentieth century. We have 
seen how the romantic tradition of non-marital love, the hetairism 
that was the necessary adjunct to monogamic marriage, has been 
purposely confused with that most pragmatic of institutions, making 
it more appealing—thus restraining people from experimenting with 
other social forms that could satisfy their emotional needs as 
well or better. 
Under increasing pressure, with the pragmatic bases of the marriage 
institution blurred, sex roles relaxed to a degree that would have 
disgraced a Victorian. He had no crippling doubts about his role, 
nor about the function and value of marriage. To him it was simply 
an economic arrangement of some selfish benefit, one that would 
most easily satisfy his physical needs and reproduce his heirs. 
His wife, too, was clear about her duties and rewards: ownership of 
herself and of her full sexual, psychological, and housekeeping 
services for a lifetime, in return for longterm patronage and 
protection by a member of the ruling class, and—in her turn—limited 
control over a household and over her children until they reached 
acertain age. Today this contract based on divided roles has 
been so disguised by sentiment that it goes completely unrecognized 
by millions of newlyweds, and even most older married couples. 
If you're going to pay rent on something, and pay at least several 
subsistence-level salaries, you'll need a few hundred dollars at 
least with which to get started, and some parents who will 
continue to pay tuition beyond the first month. 
But there is a fantastic amount of bullshit surrounding the issue 
of money and free schools. Money is usually blamed on most 
failures. Rather, it is the most common scapegoat. In this culture, 
in or out of it, on welfare or not, there is enough money to support 
“alternative learning environments” without resorting to huge 
energy rip-offs for fund raising and soul-endangering trips of 
_ 
sucking around foundations pledged to maintain the dominant 
culture (termed “constructive change from within existing 
institutions”). 
The simplest answer of course is tuition. According to the New 
Schools Exchange the national average (of free schools charging 
tuition) is about $75 per month per child (with varying arrangements 
for reducing tuition for 2nd and 3rd children in the same family). 
Such schools find they can make it without big fund raising 
trips if (and this is a painfully big if) families meet their tuition 
commitments. 
For some reason, many families in free schools across the country 
don’t pay their tuition. We've heard of one solution: collect the 
year's tuition in advance. For those without funds, require that 
it be borrowed from a local bank (it helps if an executive of the 
bank is on your board), using the other money from those who do 
have it as collateral for those who don’t. Then you've got a solid 
base from which to run the school or even for borrowing. No pressure, 
no bad trips about begging parents or blocking kids at the door when 
tuition is finally three months overdue. 
Schools that seem to manage their money with little energy loss 
usually set a conservative budget, based on say, 60 per cent 
collection of the total on-the-books tuition. The remaining 40 
per cent covers those who don't 
or can’t pay, for formal scholarships 
as opposed to rip-offs, to secure loans at the bank, etc. 
We've wondered why more free schools haven't latched onto the 
more wealthy in the alternative cultures from which they are 
springing. For example, every rock band on the rise could sponsor 
a free school. 
TO THE MILLIONS OF CHILDREN STILL 
IN PRISON IN THE UNITED STATES 
and 
to the handful of adults trying 
to spring them 
