American Indian Medicine 
— 
The definitive book——all the tribes, all the medicines. 
The 
author is looking through the window of Western medicine 
and Western anthropology, but he is looking with detailed 
appreciation. Weedmunchers could find no better guide. 
— 
The people who could use it best probably can’t afford a 
doctor and drugstore and probably can’t afford this book— 
—another good reason for libraries. 
_sp 
American Indian Medicine 
ay, VIRGILED, VOGEL 
American Indian Medicine 
Virgil J. Vogel 
1970; 583 pp. 
$1.95 Paperback 
_ 
from: 
Ballantine Books 
c/o Random House 
457 Hahn Rd. 
Westminster, Md. 21157 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Blind Aids and Appliances 
From a design standpoint, as well as a humanitarian one, 
this is one of the most fascinating catalogs I’ve seen. Pretty 
reasonable prices. Braille edition of the catalog is available. 
—SB 
American Foundation for the Blind, Inc. 
15 West 16th St. 
New York, N.Y. 10011 
Raised Line Drawing Kit. A method whereby blind 
people may draw or write and feel the lines on the 
top surface 
as the lines are made. The kit com- 
prises a rubber covered drawing board with hold- 
down: clips for 844” x 11” material, a ball-point pen 
filled with a colorless lubricant, and a package of 
polyester film sheets which serve as the “paper.” 
Heretofore, 
it has been necessary 
to turn 
the 
page over to feel the lines made with tracing wheels 
and the like, but with this new development, the 
lines can be felt on the top side of the page. The 
lines so made are quite easily followed by sight. (See 
Mathematical Aids section for description of Graph 
Marking 
Slate and Draftsman’s Compass 
for use 
with kit.) 
WS194—$7.10 
Polyester Film Sheets. Package of approx. 70 sheets. 
WC195— $2.85 
Ball Point Pen for WS194. (Inkless) 
| WC196—55¢ 
Braille Music. Braille music must be purchased from: 
’_ American Printing House for the Blind 
1839 Frankfort Ave., Louisville, Ken- 
tucky, 40206 or Howe Press, Perkins 
School for the Blind, Watertown, Mass. 
02172. 
Electronic Level — AFB Model. Standard Stanley 
level equipped additionally with mercury bubbles to 
provide an audible 
signal. Accuracy equivalent. to 
sight bubble. When 
no 
signal 
is heard, accurate 
horizontal 
or vertical measurement has been 
.ob- 
tained. Seasoned cherry wood, 24” length. Supplied 
complete 
with 
9-volt 
battery. 
(Easily 
obtainable 
' replacement 
batteries must be bought from 
local 
supplier.) 
; 
Two types: 
Horizontal measurements only. 
TM325—$39.50 
Horizontal and Vertical Measurements. 
; 
_TM326—$50.30 
Himes concluded that “‘American.tribes had no effective methods 
of preventing conception,” and that they relied mainly on abortion, 
infanticide, and abstention to control family size. 
Events have since proved how wrong Himes was, for not only have 
oral contraceptives come into general use in advanced countries, but 
Indian herbs were finally subjected to laboratory tests in the 
search for an effective oral means of controlling fertility, and 
some of them were found to be effective. Just as America was 
considered to be undiscovered before the white men found it, 
so the Indian drugs were unreal or of no account until the white 
men discovered them. This is one example among many of the 
ethnocentric attitude which has hurt the white men more than 
the Indian by delaying scientific inquiry into aboriginal herbal 
knowledge. The Cherokee drug may have been of no use, but 
what is striking here is the way it was rejected a priori, simply 
because white men knew of no oral contraceptive, and therefore, 
presumably, none existed. 
|t is noteworthy that until recently 
it could not only be said that Indian recipes for controlling 
fertility. had not been investigated, but that the very names of 
the drugs used were largely unknown. 
Dig Warts 
| cured my WARTS with a Swiss ARMY KNIFE. A true testimonial 
by Malaclypse the Younger 
of San Francisco——Plagued with Planter’s 
Warts for over a year, and advised by the medical profession that 
regular medication is GENERALLY HOPELESS, | cured my WARTS 
with a Swiss ARMY KNIFE and voodoo. Twice a week for twelve 
months | cursed the warts and made them feel unwelcome. 
During 
that time, | took my stainless steel Swiss ARMY KNIFE and dug at 
them relentlessly. They have now more or less DISAPPEARED 
leaving only gaping holes and volcano-like craters on my calouses. 
| recommend this cure for any person with a cool hand, a knowledge 
of voodoo and a Swiss ARMY KNIFE. A Swiss ARMY KNIFE may 
be purchased at your nearest Swiss ARMY KNIFE dealer. 
POEE 
San Francisco, CA 
Folk Medicine 
Of all the books on folk medicine that’ve come through our 
hands, this is the only one I’d trust enough to use. Seems 
like every other malady, Dr. Jarvis either pours honey on 
it or in it. 
—SB 
Folk Medicine 
D. C. Jarvis, M. D. 
1958; 192 pp. 
$1.25 
from: 
Fawcett World Library 
67 West 44th Street 
New. York, N. Y. 10036 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Wheelchairs 
What do you do— and you might answer this question in your 
next edition— with the poor people who cannot walk and who 
have just enought to buy a vehicle for 100 or 200$? And who risk 
to be fitted into their wheelchairs like the victims of Procrustes, 
the figure of Greek mythology, who put his short people in long 
beds and long ones in short beds, stretching the legs or cutting 
them off accordingly. 
: 
Well, there is a good book out for those 400000 people or so, to 
speak only of USA. See the enclosed clipping. 
Herman L. Kamenetz, M.D. 
State Veterans Hospital] 
Rocky Hill, Connecticut 
THE WHEELCHAIR BOOK: Mobility for the Dis- 
abled by Herman L. Kamenetz, State of Connecticut 
Veterans Hosp., Rocky Hill. All types of rolling chairs, 
stands, beds, and walkers along with the services of each 
are reviewed in this reference manual. Numerous illus- 
trations with explicit legends develop an understanding 
of the hundreds of features of modern wheelchair design— 
size, type, construction and accessories. Contains valuable 
information for professionals as well as laymen. 69, 288 
Pp. (634 x 934), 81 il., 8 tables, $14.75 
Charles C. Thomas, Publisher 
Springfield, Illinois 62703 
Mesquite (Prosopis juliflora [Swartz] DC, and Prosopis glandulosa 
Torr.). P. juliflora‘was the mizquitl of the Aztecs (hence, mesquite), 
who mixed the leaves with other substances for an eye lotion when 
the eyes were hot and painful from sickness. Seventy years ago 
Bourke reported that this shrubby tree was used for the same 
purpose by Mexican Americans in Texas, and Hrdlicka found 
Indians of the American Southwest using it in a similar manner. 
The Mescalero Apaches ground the leaves to a powder, placed 
the substance in a thin cloth, added water, and squeezed the 
liquid on the eyes. The Pimas applied the sap to sore eyes. 
The Maricopas used the dried juice, ground fine, as a sore-eye 
remedy by applying the substance to the lids and later 
washing it off with warm water. 
The skeletal remains of unquestionably precolumbian date 
{he concludes] are, barring few exceptions, remarkably free 
from disease. Whole important scourges were wholly unknown. 
There was no pathologic microcephaly, no hydrocephaly. There 
was no plague, cholera, typhus, smallpox or measles. Cancer 
was rare, and even fractures were infrequent. There was no 
lepra [leprosy] ... there is as yet not a single instance of 
precolumbian syphilis. There were, apparently, no nevi [skin 
tumors]. There were no troubles with the feet, such as 
fallen arches. And, judging from later acquired knowledge, 
there was a much greater scarcity than in the white population 
of many diseases of the skin, of most mental disorders, and 
of other serious conditions. 
The chief diseases to which the ancient Indians were subject, he added, 
were digestive disorders, particularly in children and older persons, 
pneumonia, arthritis, and localized maladies such as nutritional 
disorders. 
Wild mint. 
This is the only indigenous species of Mentha. 
Dr. Clapp 
reported in 1852 that it was little used in medicine but would be a 
tolerable substitute for the European species when they could not 
be obtained. 
The Cheyennes ground the leaves and stems of this species and boiled 
them for a medicine to prevent vomiting. Wild mint was used by all 
the Missouri valley tribes as a carminative, being steeped in water and 
sweetened with sugar for a drink. Because of its aromatic flavor, it 
was also used as a beverage. Among the Menominees it was combined 
with catnip and peppermint for a pneumonia remedy, being drunk as 
a tea and also used as a chest poultice. The Flambeau Ojibwas brewed 
a tea from the entire plant for use as a blood remedy.. 
It was also used 
in the sweat bath, and the Pillagers made a tea of it to break fevers. 
The Potawatomis used the leaves or tops for fevers and as a stimu- 
lating tea for pleurisy. Whites have used the whole plant for its bitter, 
pungent, antispasmodic, antirheumatic, stimulant, and anodyne 
properties. 
Wild mint (Mentha arvensis, var. canadensis L.) has not been 
official, but it contains-a volatile oil from which pulegone and 
thymol (USP 1882-1950, NF 1950—) or carvacrol have been 
isolated. 
= 
e@ 
The shock experienced by plunging into cold water after the sweat 
bath is parallel to hydrotherapy treatments commonly used today 
for patients suffering from nervous tension. Therefore it was 
probably effective for ailments of a psychosomatic nature. 
Barre, Vermont, being the largest granite-cutting center in the 
world, | decided to try adding granite dust which, as it comes 
from the dust-removing device, is fine, like flour. Granite dust 
contains 5 per cent of potassium, and has associated with it 
sixteen minerals. When | applied it to the soil around my 
garden plants, 
a number of things happened. 
Among my flowers, | have 125 plants of delphinium. Each year | 
had been having to combat a tiny mite which caused the leaves 
to curl up and turn black. These harmful mites were so small 
that | had to use a magnifying glass in order to see them crawling 
on the leaves. 
| used a spray but it did not do away with them. 
When | added the granite dust to the soil around the plants, 
these harmful mites deserted my garden and have not returned. 
_ Following the general examination, and the special examination of 
his nose, | gave the boy a chew of honeycomb, to learn what might 
happen.: 
| wrote out directions for treatment to be followed at 
home and prepared drops he was to take. Before | had finished 
this——after about five minutes——the boy suddenly said; ‘‘My nose 
is open! 
| can breathe through it!’’ | gave the medicine for home 
use to the mother and discussed the written directions. Then | 
examined the boy’s nose again to see what the honeycomb had 
accomplished. 
The nose tissues had subsided, as they would have if | had used a 
shrinking agent in the nose. 
Instead of being pale, the mucous 
membrane was now light pink in color. One week later, at the 
next office visit, the boy's nose was still open and he was 
breathing with his mouth closed. 
THE THIRD DEPARTURE 
After God hung up D.R. sat a few minutes listening to the 
dial tone. But then he put the receiver down and went about 
getting ready to go. There wasn’t much to do, actually, except 
put his clothes on, and leave a note on the desk for Marcella. 
Someone had left four dollars and some change in an ashtray on 
the desk. D.R. took it, and added. a P.S. to his note explaining 
that he had. He made himself a smoked-ham sandwich, put some 
apples and oranges in a sack and took them out to the bus. Urge 
was in the worst mess he had ever been in, but mechanically he 
was all set to go. Half an hour after the call from God, Divine 
Right backed out of his sister’s drive way and set out down Clark 
Creek for Kentucky. 
Country Cures & Medical Stuff 
Community 
