“y 
Foxfire 
F 
2 
' 
POTATO CANDY 
Peel and boil one large white 
potato. When done, mash up 
with a fork, add a little salt, 
and pour in a box of confec- 
tionate sugar. This makes a 
stiff dough. 
Roll out on a dough board 
that has been well floured in 
a layer % inch thick. Spread 
peanut butter all over top. 
Roll up like a jelly roll (make 
two rolls if you like). Put 
this in the refrigerator. 
Cut with knife. Serve. Good 
any time. 
Probably no region in the country has been written about, “explained” 
and “interpreted” any more than the Southern Appalachian highlands, 
that mountainous area embracing parts of Georgia, North Carolina, 
Tennessee, Virginia, Kentucky and on up into West Virginia. And 
yet, no region is as little known or more misunderstood. 
Most of 
the writers and film documentarians who have paid attention to 
Appalachia have suffered from one social/economic bias or another, 
or, what’s worse, a pasty sentimentality inherited from romantic 
writers of the John Fox Jr.-James Lane Allen school. Even native 
writers all too often fall victim to the same stereotypes and cliches 
that have marred so much of the reportage in the national media. 
There are, however, scattered here and there through the Appala- 
chians, a few smal! journals who are truly in touch with the place 
they claim to represent. And one of the best of these is Foxfire. 
Foxfire is a quarterly publication concerned with researching, 
e 
recording and preserving Appalachian folk art, crafts and traditions. 
A typical issue contained articles on quilting, chairmaking, soap- 
making, home remedies, mountain recipes, feather beds and home- 
made hominy, plus regional poetry and book reviews. 
One issue 
was devoted entirely to log cabin building. 
These are not superficial 
“feature” articles, but definitive, detailed treatments of traditional — 
skills and crafts that have come close to dying out of our culture. 
The churner said the chant in 
time to the up and down move 
ments of the dasher as indicated 
below. The arrows indicate 
the dasher movement: 
& 
+ 
Foxfire would be a credit to a group of professional folk/orists. 
oan sburvericene 
But when you consider that it is edited and published by high 
ede tee chee t 
school kids at the Rabun Gap-Nacoochee School in Rabun Gap, 
. 
Sere 
Ls 
* 
Georgia, it becomes impressive indeed. 
The thing | like most 
; 
Bes es * the gate 
about it is the way these kids are looking immediately Wield 
FOXFIRE 
Waiting for a butter cake 
; 
for their inspiration, instead of taking cues from New York an 
: 
geen 
aw 
California. fh their own-way, these people are as hip and sophisti- 
$6.00 
/yr (quarterly) 
Come butter come. 
cated as any young people putting out a magazine on either coast. 
More so, even. 
They’re cooler, more adult. Next to Foxfire, 
from: 
: 
most “underground” papers seem written by children shrieking at 
: 
ee ae Fund, Inc. 
; 
} 
e 
e he wont let them smoke 
grass 
abun 
Gap 
; 
oes 
: 
: 
: 
e Pecan 
nae editors and writers (and Raban 
Georgia 30568 
Plate 3: Legs are shaped with a shaving horse and drawing knife. 
excellent photographers) seem to me as aware of what’s wrong with 
the world as anyone. 
The thing that distinguishes them from their 
shrill counterparts in the cities is the absence of fad, slogan and 
cliche as they set out to improve the world. 
These kids in Georgia 
are living in a real world, studying real things, and in consequence 
they are creating.a wonderfully real publication in Foxfire. 
[Reviewed by Gurney Norman.] 
Choose a tall maple, the trunk of which is about 8 inches in 
diameter and slightly curved. This curve will produce the 
sloped Back obvious in Figure 2. If you would rather the back 
be straight, choose your maple accordingly. 
Saw a3’6" length out of the curved section of the trunk for 
the back posts; a 1’8” length out of the straight section for 
the front posts; and a 1’4’’ length out of the straight section 
for the backs. 
At the same time, choose a tall, straight-grained white oak 4-6" 
in diameter. From the trunk, cut one 16” length, two 14” 
lengths, and save the rest for splits. 
Quarter the maple sections to be used for posts. Split out the 
# 
heart. Then round the quarters off using first an axe and 
~ 
then.the shaving horse. 
(Plate 3.) 
; 
It is now time to choose the 
placement of the inside walls. 
If you wish to have a wall run- 
ning the length of the house, 
its first log should be laid in 
place next, 
If the wall is to 
run the entire length of the 
house, cut a log to that length, 
hew it down to 4'" in width, and 
cut dovetail notches in the ends. 
SS 
Nature and Art of Workmanship 
Seems like just about everybody | know is making things 
lately—pots & dishes & clothes & bags & belts & blouses. 
ee ie 
! read in Newsweek or somewhere that this is the New 
dl ‘kid Sp 
Rennaissance—Mebbe so. But it doesn’t feel good to see 
fitsabtog 
a lot of home made things when they are also poorly made. 
Romanticizing the hand-made is a naive reaction to the 
problem of a machined-plastic environment. The Nature 
and Art of Workmanship /s an attempt to define the 
asthetics of craftsmanship in a classical scholarly mode. 
/t has clear insight and sound criteria for judging the 
quality of the objects that surround us without the 
blanket rejection of technology that is trapping many 
people in an alternative life-style of shoddy creativity. 
Don't worry about the place- 
ment of the inside doors, 
They 
a 
: 
will be cut after the wall is 
completed. 
Can you wash your clothes in it? ‘“Yeah, you can. Just take that, 
y'know, like we used to——we took our clothes and put our soap 
on ‘em and rub ‘em and boil ‘em. People don’t do that now. And 
; 
ee 
| ain't afraid t'wash.my hands in it! That there lard kills th‘lye.”’ 
Branch Lettuce 
[Reviewed by Terry Gunesch/] 
put! your onions in it, and pour your hot grease on it. It tastes just 
like tame lettuce.” 
Be 
Sen 
Sap 
rahe 
Why do you stir it so much? 
“‘It requires it. 1t wouldn't make 
Mertile Lamb: 
‘‘Well, there is one kind we call branch lettuce. 
Chere bar 
Bes 
sy ts 
if you didn’t dissolve it good. You got t'get it thick like jelly 
It's kindly a long leaf thing, and’ it grows in the wettest damp 
: 
‘he Nature and Art 
y'know. Y‘can’t leave jelly ‘till it gets right.” 
places like where moss grows. As it gets older, it has a red cast to 
: 
f Workmanship : 
it. And you take it and cut it up like you do the-tame lettuce, and 
i 
| 
Nature and Art of Workmanship 
David Pye 
=s 
Ruskin said ‘If we build, let us think that we build forever’. Shall 
1968; 101pp. 
we say ‘If we build, let. us remember to build for the scrapheap’? 
$2 75 posnsid 
Shall we make everything so that it goes wrong or breaks pretty 
3 
quickly? |. think not. Men do not live by economics alone. There 
‘eee 
is a question of morale.involved. A world in which everything was 
ephemeral would, not be worth working for. There are overwhelming 
social and aesthetic arguments for durabiility in certain things 
even if, as we are told, there are no economic ones. These are: 
me 
Van Nostrand Reinhold Co. 
450 West 33rd Street 
New York, N.Y. 10001 
First of all, the things we inherit from the past remind us that the 
men who6 made them were like us and give us a tangible link with 
them. This is 
athought to set off against the knowledge that life 
is short. Hitherto it has been inconceivable that any one generation 
should discard all the equipment it has inherited and replace 
it completely. That may yet become possible. Even if it does, it 
will still be imperative for each generation deliberately to make 
some of its equipment so that it lasts and survives its makers. 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
There is a very present danger that, as the kinds of medium-scale 
diversity which free workmanship used to impart to building 
become less readily available, what little can be had in that way will 
be over-played and in the end travestied. We do not want every 
piece of concrete to show board-marks, every piece of paving to 
be cobbled, every piece of masonry to be random rubble, every 
piece of brickwork to be left unplastered. There +s a place for all 
those things, but such elephantine capers unaccompanied by 
diversity at smaller scales become merely ludicrous. What-we want 
is diversity which begins at the smallest visible scale and develops 
continuously upwards from that; and even then we do not want it 
always and everywhere. Vitamins are necessary 
to life, but only in 
small amounts. Take them in large amounts and they make you 
ill. So | believe it is with diversification in workmanship. | do not 
suggest it is more—or less—than a vitamin: not a diet: nota 
Panacea: merely something which, though we may not take 
much notice of it, we need to have. 
Craft Design 
Craft 
3 
Secondly, if you are making a.thing so that it goes wrong or 
breaks, then, however honestly you state the fact, two other facts 
remain. One is that you are putting as little into the job as you 
decently can. The other is that you are in a fair way to force its 
user to spend his money on replacing that thing instead of for 
some other purpose, He may be glad to replace it, in an age of 
materialism and the passion for novelty. But why 
should we all be compelled to keep spending money on renewing 
our car, Our cooker and our refrigerator? These things for some 
people are merely means to other ends in life. Why should be not 
save the money so as to pursue those ends the better: altruistic, 
learned or artistic ends, say? Things which are made to fail 
early should be made maintainable and reparable, so that 
aman who 
cares for something other than novelty and status-symbols can make 
- 
them last his time respectably while he gets on with his life. 
Optional durability is what we want. 
3 
