i Guide to Filmmaking 
ed pincus is a careful man, once a logician of sorts, nowa 
: 
cameraman. he’s taught still work at the visual arts center, 
harvard, and now is at the mit film department. 
his book is carefully done, thorough, nicely indexed, easier 
to use than the american cinematographers manual, and 
probably more useful to the student. 
and it only costs a buck fifty. 
its good, ed. 
hi, jane. 
Guide to Filmmaking 
Edward Pincus 
1969; 256 pp. 
$1 50 postpaid 
from: 
The New American Library, Inc. \ 
1301 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, New York 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
American Cinematographer 
Accurate, specific information on what’s new in equipment, 
techniques, standards, and the attitudes of technicians 
using them. AJ/so gossip and news about who’s doing what 
where. Covers all aspects of professional filmaking from 
Hollywood Super Panavision 70mm to 8 mm educational 
loops. 
The ads, fully as important as the text, are mouthwatering 
for those with an appetite for Eclairs and such. 
If you read it regularly you'll never need Baddeley—you'll 
} 
know how it’s really done. Often the information is 
directly and simply usable; sometimes it stimulates visions 
. 
of the super-cinema of the future. When in school | 
consulted back issues for a psychology paper on perception. 
The articles are really interesting and, best of all, there is 
no film criticism so you avoid all those negative emotions. 
[Suggested by Gordon Ashby 
Reviewed by Sandra Tcherepnin] 
American Cinematographer 
$9.00 for one year (monthly) 
from: 
, 
American Cinematographer 
1782 North Orange Drive 
Hollywood, California 90028 
Q. How can | produce a night effect in the daytime using color 
film? 
A. This is the question we most frequently receive, and though 
the answer has been given many times, still the key. to the question 
is to underexpose two stops. 
Additional techniques which assist 
the illusion are to photograph the scene in back-light, using fights 
or reflectors as fill lights on the players. When such are not 
available, use front cross-light. 
By all means avoid any white sky 
in the scene. 
You may use a 85N6 filter, but disregard its 
factor. 
The N6 (Neutral density—6 transmission) portion of this 
filter will reduce the light transmitted by two stops. 
Therefore, 
you judge the exposure as if you were using the normal No. 85 
filter for a day exposure; the N6 portion cutting two stops will 
produce the underexposure necessary for a night effect. 
It will further the illusion if you can include in the scene some 
light source— 
such as lighted windows or street lamps. 
These 
must be boosted by using photo-flood lamps— 
using tracing 
paper or Bon Ami on the glass of the windows to diffuse the 
light from the naked globes. 
350 
Filmaking 
Communications 
= 
NR 
16. 16MM CAMERA—FILMING WITH SOUND. Cameraman (left) is shooting 
hand-held with an Eclair NPR. Soundman (right) is using a Nagra III 
NPH tape recorder with Sennheiser 804 shotgun microphone with a 
homemade windscreen. 
Subject 
is shooting hand-held with a Bolex. 
(National Educational Television) 
The book is intended to give a fairly precise idea of how much it 
costs to do various types of films and the way to go about making 
these films. 
It is a production manual, including all the information 
the serious filmmaker will need about the technical side of making 
movies. 
A whole breed of filmmakers and potential filmmakers is appearing 
for whom 16mm is the professional film and super 8mm a serious 
amateur gauge which someday may be a professional gauge. Much 
of the information for one gauge is relevant to the other. This book 
discusses them both, emphasizing 16mm, pointing out the differences 
in the narrower film. 
. 
If you have been thinking of shoot- 
ing 
your 
films 
with 
double-system 
sound, 
and 
if your 
camera 
has 
a 
synchronous motor, for about $30.00 in 
parts, and a little labor, you can con- 
struct 
a signal generator that can be 
used with a number of tape recorders to 
permit the synchronism. necessary for 
double-system work. Furthermore, the 
construction 
is so straightforward that 
even if you are absolutely unhandy with 
tools, the labor charges for constructing 
the gadget should be well within the 
budget of even the most cost-conscious 
producer. 
z 
PROFESSIONAL MINIATURE TAPE 
RECORDER NAGRA SN 
35mm PROJECTORS (eight of them), Multi- 
screen 
used 
for only two months, Prevost, 
130 Amp, water cooled, Selsync (Turner & 
Co.) 
motors 
60 cy, 4,500 
feet 
55 minutes 
load, 8 rectifiers, 10 Prevost amplifiers. Coll- 
morgen lenses. Ali of them or by pairs. Cable 
SOLECINE or write Box 60.253 CARACAS 
establishes and releases interlock. 
TWO 35mm MITCHELL cameras model GC. 
Complete outfit, excellent condition. $2,295. 
each. 
Details 
on request. ABBE, 417 W. 44 
St., New York, N.Y. 10036 
(LEFT) The Handiola is a device for achieving instantaneous positive interlock syne. Once picture 
and track start-marks are aligned in their respective units, sync is maintained by simply sliding 
tape transport assembly 1/4-inch toward viewer. Shaft engages the viewer's sprocket for positive 
interlock between both media, running forward or backward; movement of either medium causes 
the other to move in sync. Note inching knob on front of tape transport, for precise cuing 
without handling tape or film. Accessory frame counter is shown installed at right. (RIGHT) Pen 
points to interlock shaft, at point of connection with viewer. %4-inch movement of tape assembly 
The unedited footage is called rushes or dailies. Almost invariably 
there is a considerably greater amount of rushes than there is of final 
film. The ratio of film shot to final footage is usually between 5:1 
and 10:1. 
But the ratio varies tremendously depending on the type 
of film being made and the method of filming. Peter Emmanuel 
Goldman’‘s underground classic Echoes of Silence was done using a 
ratio of less than 2:1 for an hour-long film. At the other end of the 
spectrum, documentary filmmakers who use no script often shoot 
ratios higher than 40:1, which means shooting over 90,000 feet to 
end with an hour’s length of film. Often one of the most difficult 
tasks in writing up a budget for a film is to estimate the amount of 
footage that will be needed. 
When there is a script for a film, a great deal of additional footage is 
shot to give the editor a selection of shots and to guarantee that 
there will not be any continuity gaps either within scenes or in the 
story line. 
It is not unusual, when two possibilities for a story line 
exist, for both to be filmed and the final choice delayed until the 
film is being edited. Often the same action is filmed several times 
in several ‘‘takes” to get different camera angles (positions) and to 
guarantee that the actors have performed their task well. 
e 
In much black and white photography, correct exposure for the 
subject will give you a pale, washed-out, and cloudless sky. A sky 
darkened too much (by using a heavy filter) will have a phony, 
heavily dramatic quality. The bluer the sky, the easier it is to 
darken it and the less filtration needed. When the sky is overcast 
or misty, filters will not be very effective. The sky near the sun 
and on’the horizon is often almost white and does not respond to 
filtration. 
If the film is overexposed, the filter effect may be 
largely lost. 
lf you wish to bleach a blue sky, a blue filter will do the trick. 
e 
As in all things, it is often hard to find yourself 
in film. For some, 
the way is to make their films alone. 
For others, film is essentially 
a group enterprise. 
In film you may be able to find yourself, under- 
stand the world, show others what the world really is, and, finally, 
change it. 
Cte Y 
* 
eae 
Ye) 
= 
\ 
Pon25 
= 
2 
t i) 
The 180° rule: 
\f we draw a line through the main action, 
any camera position on one side of the line will preserve 
screen direction. 
American Cinematographer Manual 
Indispensible data book, used by American 
cinematographers. Expensive, because it is absolutely 
- 
‘comprehensive, upto date, from Hollywood, and has no 
competitors. 
[Reviewed by Sandra Tcherepnin] 
AMER} 
; 
@ 
CINEMATOGRAPHER 
MANUAL 
American Cinematographer Manual 
Arthur C. Miller, Walter Strenge, editors 
newest edition 1969;'approx. 600 pp. 
$1 5.00 postpaid 
from: 
The American Cinematographer Manual 
P.O. Box 2230 
: 
; 
Hollywood, California 90028 
Scone 
*Bition 
NOLivweos 
‘ 
CAMERA SPEED COMPENSATOR 
EXPOSURE INCREASE AND DECREASE 
ABOVE AND BELOW NORMAL 24 F.P.S. 
(The Factor for Above Normal Speeds can be used 
with both the Filter Factor Compensator and the 
ASA Exposure Index Reduction Tables) 
ABOVE NORMAL SPEED 
— 
hal 
FRAMES PER 
FACTOR 
STOPS 
SECOND 
INCREASE 
