Propane Conversion 
How to Propel Your Car with Propane 
An Immediate Personal Action for Cleaner Air 
(reprinted from Freedom News, February 1970) 
In addition to long range cultural change, Ecology Action is interested 
in immediate personal actions aimed at waging war on environmental 
problems. 
In this endeavor we attempt to practice what we preach, 
and to that end have begun converting the vehicles upon which we 
- must occasionally rely to propane gas (also butane). 
We have culled the following information from Imperial Rock Gas of 
Richmond. 
If you're interested in doing something about air and water pollution 
now, and drive a gasoline fueled, internal combustion engine vehicle, 
convert to propane. Conversion is a simple, financially beneficial 
operation which reduces your vehicle’s harmful emissions by 50%. 
Some estimates go as high as 75% to 80% reduction in harmful 
emissions. 
There are other ways to reduce your personal impact on the environ- 
ment, of course, and several alternatives to pouring gasoline wastes 
into. the eco-system. 
Walking is the best alternative of all, and 
public transportation use reduces your impact. 
Gas turbines, steam driven and electric engines all produce less harm- 
ful exhausts than the present gasoline engine, but these alternatives 
are not possible ones for most people, for a variety of reasons. 
Electric, steam and gas turbines cannot be made available to any 
significant number of persons soon enough. 
Propane is different. 
You can go to alocal propane dealer who 
does conversions and have your car running on propane in one 
day. That’s how long it normally takes. 
The cost is approximately $300 from which you can shave substantial 
amounts in a variety of ways. Labor costs about $40, but the job ts 
simple enough so that anyone with rudimentary mechanical know- 
ledge can do it. 
How it Works: 
Basically: 
A special carburetor replaces the air’ 
filter; a heat exchanger is mounted under the hood and connected 
to the water hose that runs to the heater; a fuel line must be run to 
_ the tank which is usually mounted in the trunk. 
= 
This last item, the tank, is the single most expensive aspect, costing 
$120—$180 for a new tank capable of holding 24-36 gallons of fuel. 
A used tank often costs less than half as much, so shopping around 
for one is worthwhile. 
. 
cor 
Even with these cuts in cost, however, the average American car 
owner may not feel he can afford conversion. 
But, as economists 
point out, cost is a relative concept against which we must pose 
benefits, and the benefits of propane are substantial. 
First, as previously mentioned, the use of propane cuts harmful 
emissions by 50%, thus reducing air pollution directly and water 
pollution indirectly (hydrocarbons and other exhaust products are 
inevitably washed off the road by rain or precipitated out of the 
air). 
‘ 
Another benefit is that the use of propane can increase the life of a 
“new engine from 2—10 years. According to Mr. Carl Warner of 
Imperial Rock Gas in Richmond, forklift truckers, who have used 
propane for many years because of its lower emissions and the 
enclosed, indoor nature of much of their work, claim at least a 
5—2 ratio of improved engine life. This is because, in part, the 
propane enters the engine as a gas, not as a liquid, and sludge and 
carbon are essentially eliminated. 
Fuel Cost is Lower: 
Still another benefit of propane cost is fuel 
cost. 
Only one grade of propane is distributed: 
a high octane 
grade comparable to high test gasoline. The cost, in the Bay Area, 
is about twenty-four cents per gallon. Though the per gallon mileage 
of propane is about 3% less than gasoline, the consumer still saves 
a considerable amount, which, even excluding longer engine life, 
makes propane conversion profitable over the long run. 
Cal Gas of Sacramento claims other propane benefits: cuts main- 
tenance costs; cleaner oil; longer spark plug life——no carbon to 
foul spark plugs; instant cold weather starting——no flooding or 
choking of carburetor; fuel pump problems eliminated because 
there is no fuel pump. 
Another consideration the potential propane converter makes is the 
availability of the fuel. Most cities of 50,000 or more have propane 
supply outlets. National and state listings are available from gas 
companies usually on request. 
But even without careful planning the propane motorist need not 
fear being stranded without fuel, for the standard conversion oper- 
“ation leaves the vehicle with a gasoline potential which may be 
~ 
5 
a 
ee 
nye hae pe 
ee 
realized by flipping a dashboard switch. Just keep a small amount 
of gasoline in your car. 
Z 
A few other considerations: If your car is air cooled (for example, 
Volkswagens) about $20 extra must be spent for adaptive equipment. 
The higher the compression ratio of your engine the more efficiently 
it will run on propane (compression usually corresponds to engine 
size and number of cylinders but not always, so check your owner’s 
manual). 
k 
: 
‘Pressure Conversion: 
In addition to converting your own car, you 
can take a step toward lessening pollution by encouraging other 
individuals, industry and government to convert. Some steps have 
been proposed already in this area, e.g., Reagan's claim that state 
vehicles were to be converted and recently publicized intentions of 
Contra Costa vehicle conversions. Concerned individuals should keep 
track of these intentions. 
If you want better quality air and water enough to do something, 
but don’t think you can afford the initial cash outlay for conversion, 
you might consider trading in your present car for one worth about 
$300 less and use the difference. You'll make it back in gas savings. 
Further, remember that propane is only a partial and interim solution 
to pollution. Even with a converted car, you still are responsible for 
concrete highways, noise, congestion, Santa Barbara oil leaks and 
Torrey Canyon shipwrecks, The answers to these problems lie with 
a deeper commitment to a quality life; with walking and relearning 
the joys of bicycle riding. 
Ecology Action 
4 
1000 North 9th Street 
' 
Modesto, CA 95352 
209-529-3784 
*y 
: 
| have heard of a new car dealer who is using a free propane 
conversion as a way to-boost sales of his left over 1969. 
models. 
(Hillsdale Dodge in San Mateo, spec.) He also 
tries to sell a propane conversion with all new car sales 
($500.per) by giving the customer a stiff lecture about 
civic duty and air pollution.—Fred 
Distributed as a public service by 
Auto Engines and Electrical Systems 
.T here are a number of books available on how to repair 
automobile engines, but not many which explain so well 
as this one does why each part is designed as it is, why 
a certain repair procedure is used, or what causes the 
wear on a worn part. 
| wanted a book which would help 
me to understand the details of engine design and construc- 
tion instead of just how to fix them; and | was extremely 
pleased to find that this book does both. 
/ts explanations 
are clear, concise, complete, and profusely and excellently 
illustrated. 
/ts authors obviously know what they are 
talking about, and write well. 
There is no bullshit and 
no excessive technical jargon, just good solid information. 
!t is practically oriented, written as a textbook for mech- 
anics, to provide the groundwork of basic knowledge a 
mechanic should have. 
[Suggested and reviewed by Marv Vickers] 
tng 
aL SYSTEMS 
Auto Engines 
and Electrical Systems 
$1 2.95 postpaid 
from: 
Motor 
250 W. 55th Street 
New York, N. Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
REMOVE 
FAN BELT 
Fig. 38 Combustion leakage test of cool- 
ing system. Air bubbles in engine outlet 
with engine running confirms this 
Vehicle Repair 
Nomadics 
o 
Books About Fords 
Restoration manuals, service bulletins, buff books. 
Catalog 
free 
from: 
Polyprints 
Box 31207 
San Francisco, CA 94131 
Hemmings Motor News 
A 200 page magazine full of ads for Ford and Non-Ford cars 
and parts and literature and misc...that’s ‘Hemmings Motor 
News!” Lots of pictures make the whole thing worth while 
for the person with a casual interest in old cars. (Almost-all 
the cars advertised as vintage or antique...but not all of 
them.) It’s monthly and cheap. ; 
é 
The publishers have come out with a magazine called ‘Special 
Interest Autos” that looks good. Looks like it will be interesting, 
but you can decide for yourself. Get the ‘‘Hemmings Motor 
News’”’ first and it will tell you where to send off for “Special 
Interest Autos.’’ The former is the real tool, the latter looks 
like it might be fun. 
David O. Weaver 
Witchita, Kansas 
Hemmings Motor News (monthly) 
$12/yr. 
- Special Interest Autos (bimonthly) 
$5.00/yr to H.M.N. subscribers 
$6.00/yr to others 
from: 
Hemmings Motor News 
Box 380 
Bennington, VT 05201 
Would You Believe! Real, authentic captured Russian Jeep! 
1966 vintage, complete. Good, restorable condition. Be tne 
first in your neighborhood, or city, or state, or even the 
United States! Only $2,000.00. Aadien Brothers, 11590 Tuxford 
Street, Sun Valley, California, 91352. Phone (213) 875-1400. 
Truck Repair Manual 
If you have a truck, chances are marvelous you 
a 
| 
spend a fair amount of your time under it or 
in the front end of it. Judicious use of this 
book might save you some down-time. It 
covers the gamut of trucks and tractors, 1960- 
69, and has better than usual illustrations of 
how to get at. what youre working on. 
Motor’s Truck Repair Manual 
—SB- 
1969; 1154 pp. 
$1 7.00 postpaid from: 
Wehman Brothers 
158 Main Street 
Hackensack, N.J. 07601 
Maintenance 
one way to force detroit to stop producing tinny 
chromedup pieces of shit is to stop buying what 
they produce, spend a little time operating on old 
terminal cases and, through the miracle of transplant, 
give the old ’57 ford retractable another ten years of 
life. old cars run just as well as new ones, if the driver 
knows enough about his machine 
to keep it running. 
factory service manuals have the best information. 
~jd 
Wheels 
If you are out in the woods and are needing to get into heavier 
vehicles a specialty magazine is Four Wheeler, not commonly 
available on many newsstands. 
You can get it for $.60 per copy 
a4 
when you can find it or for $5.00 per year. Road tests, conversions, 
accessories like winches, parts, etc. 
From: 
ert 
j 
P.O. Box 2325 
4 
Four Wheeler 
FDR Post Office 
4 
PO, Box 845 | 
New York, N.Y. 10022 
2% 
eseda, 
Ca 
$.75 per copy, $8/yr 
Fh 
If you’re into sports cars and some just can’t get out of ’em, 
Road & Track is the BEST for road tests and technical stuff. 
fl 
Pretty bourgeois but fine photography and text. $1.00 each or $10.00 
|| 
for 1 year subscription. 
Road and Track 
1499 Monrovia Ave. 
Newport Beach, CA 92663 
Kam 
Nevada City, CA 
