s Role 
in Changing the Face of the Earth 
— 
2 
’ 
; 
: 
This book of almost 1200 pages is the result of a major'con- 
ference held in 1955, sponsored by the Wenner Gren Foun- 
dation 
for Anthropological Research. More than 50 scholars 
4 submitted papers, covering almost every imaginable point of 
jiew related to man’s capacity to transform his physical 
vironment. Though first presented nearly 15 years ago, 
the 
facts and insights are richly rewarding today. In my 
opinion in fact, it is an unsurpassed achievement in assembling 
pertinent, insightful information of interest not only to serious 
students of the planet Earth, but to nen-trained readers as well. 
3 1e three sections of the book are: |. “Retrospect”, an 
historical background; I/._ “Process”, methods and agencies 
_ the effects and future implications of man’s habitation of the 
_ 
Earth. Some typical subjects covered within these sections 
iclude: fire as the great force employed by man; origins 
nd decline of woodlands; man and grass (sic); ecology of 
_ peasant life; harvests of the seas; ports channels and coast- 
ines; and sewerage (don’t belittle sewerage——society is struc- 
ired around it). 
* 
is book rewards a reader like-me because of its minimum 
of moralizing and its abundant substance. Edgar Anderson, 
director of the Missouri Botanical Garden in St. Louis and 
_ without whom.such a book as this would be certainly incom- 
lete, pointed out that the average thoughtful person has 
_ 
little inkling of how man has reclothed the world. Even 
professional biologists have been tardy in recognizing that 
_ a significant portion of the plants and animals surrounding 
__ us are of our own making. For example, neither Kentucky 
_ bluegrass nor Canada bluegrass is native to those places, but 
came from Europe. The corn belt is a very obviously man- 
‘ dominated landscape, but the casual observer might never 
ealize that even the grass covered and oak-dotted stretches 
of what looks like indigenous California vegetation came 
uninvited from the Old World along with the Spaniards. 
So Human an Animal 
‘hat prepares him perfectly to diagnose and prescribe for 
he new ills of mankind, the macro-maladies of cities and 
ollution and panic. Unlike other Generalsystem Prac- — 
__ ating facts and anecdotes presented with a good cheer 
that makes health look quite attractive. 
Human an Animal 
ené Dubos 
68; 267 pp. 
b2 95 Postpaid 
— 
Befrom:: 
Charles Scribner’s Sons 
_ 597 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
on 
ie 
ie 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
i 
cer 
RENE DUBOS 
Rtopiy..' 
The Human Condition 
water are brought in by a woman designated to be Peyote 
foman. Indian women are not supposed to speak up 
_ much on general subjects, and during a meeting the women 
e silent participants. But at dawn Peyote Woman has 
‘hority of the Earth and with awesome perception. 
nah Arendt does the same in this book. Her subject 
the elements of the human condition. Her perspective, 
‘e threshold of travel away trom the Earth. 
as 
from: 
University of 
Chicago Press 
11030 South Langley Ave. 
Chicago, III. 60628 
or WHOLE 
EARTH 
CATALOG 
The Human Condition 
volved in man’s interactions with the land; and [/I. “Prospect’ 
[Reviewed by Richard Raymond] 
Generally speaking, the plants which follow man around the world 
might be said to do so, not because they relish what man has done 
to the environment, but because they can stand it and most other 
plants cannot, 
Wo 
\. hexagona 
iganti-caerulea || 
we v 
ol 
, 
, 
Fic. 153.—A demonstration, of man's unconscious role in creating new plants. (From Riley, 
1938.) At the fur right one of the minor bayous of the lower Mississippi Delta. At right angles 
to it and running nearly across the figure is the abandoned channel of a former stream, now 
drained by a ditch, The natural levees of the stream are slightly higher than the surrounding 
country. Their sharp inner edges are indicated on the map by hachures. The road has been run 
along the lower levee, and houses have been built along the opposite one. The 
property lines 
(as in many old French settlements) produce a series of long narrow farms, which for our 
pur- 
poses serve as so many experimental plots. Each farm has its house on a low Hoe with a long 
entrance drive connecting # across a swale to the public road on the opposite ri ge. The farms 
(including a score of others which are out of sight to the left of the figure) were originally essen- 
tially similar. At the point where the ditch joins the bayou is a large population of Iris hexagona 
giganti-caerulea. Behind the levee on which the houses were built, I. Fite grows on the lower 
~ ground as well as farther upstream along the ditch. The key fact to be noted is that the hybrids 
are on only one farm, that they are abundant there, and that they go up to the very nore of 
the property on either side. Nature is evidently capable of spawning such hybrids throughout 
this area, but not until'one farmer unconsciously created the new and more or less open habitat 
in which they could survive did any 
appear in this part of the delta. (See Anderson, 1949, pp. 
1-11, 94-98, for a more complete 
discussion. ) 
Man’s Role In Changing the Face of the Earth 
William L. Thomas, Jr., ed. 
_ 
with Carl Sauer, Marston Bates, Lewis Mumford 
1956; 1193 pp. 
Vol..1 $4.75 postpaid 
Vol. 2 $5.95 postpaid 
from: 
y, 
University of Chicago Press 
5801 Ellis Ave 
. 
Chicago, Illinois 60637 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
“See Epilog, page 460 
Pen pean 
the Face of the forth 
£ 
As the year 2000 approaches, an epidemic of sinister predictions is 
spreading all over the world, as happened among Christians during 
the period preceding the year 1000. 
e 
We behave often as if we were the last generation to inhabit the earth. 
: 
@ 
If the rebellious young succeed in discovering a formula of life as 
attractive as that of the troubadours, we may witness in the twenty- 
first century a new departure in civilization as occurred in Europe 
after it recovered from the fears of the tenth century. To be 
humanly. successful, the new ages will have to overcome the present 
intoxication with the use of power for the conquest of the cosmos, 
and to rise above the simple-minded and. degrading concept of man 
as a machine. The first move toward a richer and more human 
philosphy of life should be to rediscover man‘s partnership with 
nature. 
e e 
The task and potential greatness of mortals lie in their ability 
to produce things—works and deeds and words—which would 
deserve to be and, at least to a degree, are at home in ever- 
- 
lastingness, so that through them mortals could find their 
place in a cosmos where everything is immortal except them- 
selves. 
{t is true that one-man, monarchical rule, which the ancients 
stated to be the organizational device.of the household, is 
transformed in society—as we know it today, when the peak 
of the social order is no longer formed by the royal household 
of an absolute ruler—into a kind of no-man rule. But this nobody, 
the assumed one interest of society as a whole in economics 
as well as the assumed one opinion of polite society in the salon, 
does not cease to rule for having lost its personality. As we 
know from the most social form of government, that is, from 
bureaucracy (the last stage of government in the nation-state 
just as one-man rule in benevolent despotism and absolutism 
was its first), the rule by nobody is not necessarily no-rule; it 
may indeed, under certain circumstances, even turn out to be 
One of its cruelest and tyrannical versions. 
Love, in distinction from friendship, is killed, or rather extinguished, 
the moment it is displayed in public. (‘‘Never seek to tell thy love/ 
Love that never told can be."’) Because of its inherent wordless- 
ness, love can only become false and perverted when it is used for 
political purposes such as the change or salvation of the world. 
Without actually standing where Archimedes wished to stand 
(dos moi pou sto), still bound to the earth through the human 
condition, we nave found a way to act on the earth and within 
terrestrial nature as though we dispose of it from outside, from 
the Archimedean point. And even at the risk of endangering 
the natural life process we expose the earth to universal, cosmic 
forces alien to nature’s household. 
Tue SocitaL RevoLution 
Almost every change in environmental conditions which man can 
make results in some change in the water economy or water budget 
at the earth’s surface. 
The pressure for beef supply from the grasslands is very rapidly 
depleting the potential for protein. Where the plow went ahead 
of the cow, we’have been able to measure the reduction in soil 
capabilities. The protein content of the wheat now grown on the 
eastern edge of the grassland area has been dropping decidedly. 
Where once it ranged from 19 to 11 per cent, it is now 14—9 per 
cent. 
These are all very §ood ideas, but I’ve got something else that is very 
much more important. Every time you get where there is one of 
these populations of plants, find a large, flat rock, in the shade if 
necessary; sit down upon it for at least fifteen minutes by your wrist 
watch; and do not try to think about your clematises. Just think what 
a nice day it is, how pretty the flowers are, and the blue sky. Think 
how lucky you are to be doing this kind,of work when the rest of the 
world is doing all the awful things they do not want to do. Just let 
your mind alone. Now. | am not joking. Please do this. by the clock 
if necessary. 
=e 
Fig. 147.—Changes ia wooded area of Cadiz Tawnship, Green County, Wisconsin (89°54" W 
43°30" N.), during the period of European settlement. The township is six miles on a side and is 
druined by the Pecatonica River. The shaded areas represent the land remaining in, or reverting 
to, forest in 1882, 1902, and 1950, 
: 
Considered broadly, evolution always involves learning from exper- 
ience. The learning may take place by storage of genetic information 
in the chromosomes, by accumulation of knowledge and skills in the 
~ 
individual organism, or by transmission of practices and wisdom in 
institutions or in society as a whole. 
e 
History shows that cultures of a sort can emerge from the most 
improbable ways of life, provided these last long enough to become 
integrated into an organic whole. The emergence of a new culture 
is rarely if ever the result of a conscious choice with a definite 
goal in mind. 
The Cartesian removal of the Archimedean point into the mind 
of man, while it enabled man to carry it, as it were, within 
himself wherever he went and thus freed him from given reality 
altogether—that is, from the human condition of being an 
inhabitant of the earth—has perhaps never been as convincing 
as the universal doubt from which it sprang and which it was 
supposed to dispel. Today, at any rate, we find in the perplexities 
confronting natural scientists in the midst of their greatest 
triumphs the same nightmares which have haunted the philosophers 
from the beginning of the modern age. 
QUESTIONS 
~ Did he dream about dragons?) Did he dream about deer? 
Did he whisper the names of friends who were near? What songs 
did they play, and how far away? Why did he whisper, why did 
she scream? What does the sound of a screen door mean? Who 
walks in the pasture? Who talks on the hill? Who goes to the 
cellar, can you feel the chill? Where does the river, when will 
the wind? How far are the mountains? Where do they end? 
Why would the church? Did the service begin? Tell me who died, 
and tell me who cried. Help me to hide in the skin of a deer, my 
zippered-up bag in the mouth of a stag so swiftly | go through 
rows of does, it flows, it flows, it flows, it flows all over the hill 
where the green grass grows. 
Being Human 
Whole Systems 
