- The Complete Walker 
Some of them old boys are into making houses out of 
|. chicken wire and condoms. Some of them can gather you 
a salad right off the forest floor. Some can make you a 
computer out of old Stromberg-Carlson radio parts and 
have enough wire and tubes left over for two laser death 
One of the surest ways to tell an experienced walker from a beginner 
is the speed at which he starts walking. The beginner tends to tear 
away in the morning as if he meant to break every record in sight. 
By contrast, your experienced man seems to amble. But before long, 
and certainly by evening, their positions have reversed. The beginner 
is dragging. The expert, still swinging along at the same easy pace, is 
now the one who Jooks as though he has records in mind. One friend 
of mine, a real expert, says, ‘If you can’t carry On a conversation, 
rays and a UFO. But Colin is into walking. His two previous 
you're going too fast.’ 
books are mainly about walks: In The Thousand Mile 
Summer he te//s about one he took up the entire Sierra 
range, and in The Man Who Walked Through Time, he 
walks the whole Grand Canyon. This one is about walking, 
not walks. It’s not full of lore and woodsiness. It doesn’t 
te// you how to get back to nature, or cast civilization from 
your back and wander out with a bowie knife and a jock- 
strap. It gives a little walk philosophy,.and then proceeds 
to discuss, in just the right detail, how to put a nice little 
well-equipped house and its fittings on your back, how to 
be able to go out and walk for a long time without having 
to come back for more stuff. 
Besides just the stuff, what to take and what to leave behind, 
it also takes you ona 
trip through Colin Fletcher, which is 
quite an outing all by itself. 
|[t’s hard to imagine a book on 
backpacking technique that will make you laugh out loud all 
the way through, but he does it. He really loves poking fun 
at himself. He gets completely hung up describing some 
gadget or technique which he then admits he’s never tried. 
He'll spend a whole page defending what seemed at first an 
impossibly fussy personal idiosyncracy, and at the end you’l/ 
be dying to go out and try it for yourself. He actually has a 
sizable section on how to urinate and defecate in the out- 
doors, and it’s a fine description. He includes a very complete 
appendix on suppliers, a list of walking organizations, and 
even a series of inspiring quotations to read while walking or 
thinking about walking. 
Most important, though, its the only backpacking book I’ve 
ever seen which, if read carefully, will actually tell you how 
to do it in great enough detai/ to enable you to just go out 
and do it. It’s also the only one that will really make you 
want to go out and walk for absolutely no ulterior motive. 
Be sure to dig pages 45-52, 123-132, 182-186, 213-218, the 
whole Furniture and Appliances section, and all the iIlus- 
trations. 
The only adverse comment | would make is that his food 
preferences seem pretty sanpaku. But he also quotes the old 
proverb about hell being a place where the politicians are 
French, the police German, and the cooks English. 
[Reviewed by Roland Jacopetti] 
First remove any obvious and rectifiable local irritant, such as a 
fragment of stone or a rucked sock. Then cover the tender place. 
Cover it even if you can see nothing more than a faint redness. 
Cover it, in fact, if you can see nothing at all. Being a ‘hero’ is 
being a bloody fool. The covering may only be needed for a few 
hours; if you take it off at night and let the air get at the skin you 
may not even neéd to replace it next morning. But if you do 
nothing at the first warning you may find yourself inside the hour 
with a blister that will last a week. 
U.S. G. S. Topographic Maps 
_ 
!f you‘re interested in buying land or visiting remote areas 
) you'll be using any maps you carrget your hands on. 
The 
United States Geological Survey publishes the most accurate 
_ and detailed maps generally available for the U. S. (and 
possessions). Although some are a little dated, they 
consistently pack a lot of information into a fairly 
understandable format. Besides contour intervals, 
these maps indicate type of earth surface, roads, train 
tracks and trails, buildings, mines and various land 
marks; plus a whole lot of other stuff. 
Two series of maps are available——15 minute quadrants 
(approximately 7 inch equals 1 mile, with 80 feet contour 
. 
intervals, covering an area 14 x 18 miles); and 7.5 minute 
quadrants (approx. 2” = 1 mi., 10’, 20’, and 40 contour 
covers 7 x 9 miles). The 7.5 minute maps are more up-to- 
date but have not been prepared for the whole country. 
[Reviewed by Drew Langsner.] 
U.S.G.S. also has Distribution Centers at: 
ALASKA: Anchorage, Fairbanks, Juneau and Palmer 
~ 
CALIFORNIA: Menlo Park, Los Angeles and San Francisco 
~ 
COLORADO: Denver 
: 
2 
TEXAS: Dallas 
UTAH: Salt Lake City 
WASHINGTON: Spokane 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
Canadian Topo maps from: 
Map Distribution Office 
Dept. of Energy, Mines & Resources 
615 Booth Street 
Ottawa, Ontario, CANADA K1ADE9 
Maps cost 50¢ each and U. S. G. S. provides an index 
map of any state free. 
; 
from: 
Map Information Office, Stop 507 
U.S. Geological Survey 
National Center 
Reston, VA 22092 
The Complete Walker has been revised and 
reissued (see review in The CoEvolution 
Quarterly issue 4, Winter 1974, page 109) 
as: 
The New Complete Walker 
Colin Fletcher 
1974; 485 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid 
from: 
Alfred A. Knopf, Inc. 
457 Hahn Rd. 
Westminster, MD 21157 
OR WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
(hin 
BPD 
8 
s 
% 
|< 
There is a cardinal rule of travel, all too often 
overlooked, that! call the Law of Inverse 
Appreciation. 
It states: 
‘‘The less there is between you and 
the environment, the more you appreciate 
that environment.” 
From Moe Armstrong 
this is my third year in new mexico, the second year just 
living in national forest, in wickiups, this year its more like 
_a lodge 35 feet long, 6 feet hingh. the ranger loves us, (we’ 
keep a “Model camp”’) and we got a jeep truck. 
Moe Armstrong 
Vallecitos, N.M. 
the river 
running south 
running brown 
running south 
sun setting 
on 
brown mesas 
turning 
clouds 
golden 
(rays like lances) 
the valley 
the river 
the sun 
the clouds 
all turn 
into 
afeather 
* 
~ 
and 
be 
drift 
towards me 
e 
Office-on-the-yoke 
Because I so often walk without a shirt and therefore without 
a front pocket, | have had a 
five- by six-inch pocket sewn onto the 
front of my yoke strap, roughly where the shirt pocket comes. Into 
it go notebook and map, and sunglasses when not in use. Pen, pen- 
cil, camel-hair lens brush (page 233), and metal-cased thermometer 
(page 259) clip onto the front of it. 1 cannot imagine how I 
ever got 
along without such a ‘pocket. Mine is made of otdinary blue-jean 
material, but anything stout will do. 
For which side to put your office, see page 64, 
When crowds assemble in Trafalgar 
Square to cheer to the echo the 
announcement that the government 
has decided to have them killed, they 
would not do so if they had all 
walked 25 miles that day. 
And the Lord said unto 
Satan, Whence comest 
thou? Then Satan 
answered the Lord, and 
_said, From going to and 
fro in the earth, and 
from walking up and 
Bertrand Russell 
‘ee 
je 
down in it. 
Nobel Prize Acceptance Speech 
JOBI,7 
At this point, steam issues from the stew pot. You reduce the heat to dead-low or thereabouts 
(taking care not to turn the stove off in the process), stir the compound a couple of times, inhale 
appreciatively and replace the cover. While dinner simmers toward fruition you empty two 
ounces of dehydrated peaches and a little water into the smal! cooking pot and put it ready for 
breakfast, up alongside the pack. Then you jot down a few thoughts in your notebook, stir the 
stew and sample it, find the beans are not quite soft yet. So you study the map and worry a bit 
about the morning’s route, put map and pen and pencil and eyeglasses and thermometer into the 
bedside boots, take off your shorts and slide halfway down into the mummy bag out of the wind, 
and stir the stew again and find all ready. You pour-and-spoon out a cupful, leaving the balance 
On the stove because the wind is blowing distinctly cool now.’ And then, leaning comfortably 
back against the pack and watching the sky and the black peaks meld, you eat, cupful by cupful, 
your dinner. You finish it—just. Then you spoon-scrape out every last possible fragment and 
polish-clean the pot and cup and spoon with a piece of toilet paper. You put the paper under 
the stove so that you can burn it in the morning. Then you put cup and spoon into the break- 
fast-readied small pot, pour the morning tea water into the big pot, set the big pot alongside the 
small one and the sugar and milk containers alongside them both, put the current day’s ration 
bag into the pack (where it is moderately safe from mice and their. night allies) and..- 
waiting 
for 
the truck ride 
to end 
waiting 
for 
the hiway 
to go 
someplace 
else 
and me 
to live 
another 
way 
and 
find 
something else 
: 
to do 
(with what i got) 
LETTING VIRGIL DRIVE 
D.R. was fascinated by all the things that Virgil was saying, 
but after about half an hour on 421 again he started getting so 
sleepy he barely could keep his eyes open. He drove through the 
narrow curving part of the road that had caused him to turn back 
before, but once into the long valley beyond the narrows, Urge’s 
front wheels started dropping off the blacktop every mile or two, 
and finally D.R. had to tell Virgil they would have to stop so 
he could nap a while, unless Virgil would like to drive. 
Virgil 
said he’d be glad to try, but he was a little nervous about operating 
a car with such funny gears. He offered to just sit and wait while 
D.R. got some sleep, but when he thought about it that seemed 
pretty silly, so he pulled off the road and spent a few minutes 
teaching Virgil about Urge’s gears. When Virgil said he thought 
he had it, D.R. told him it was all his, and he crawled through the 
junk scattered on the floor of the bus, stretched out on the 
mattress and fell asleep immediately. 
. Walking 
Nomadics 
