Domebook Two | 
_ This is an instruction manual for builders and a story book 
- of some new communities in America. 
It is the beginning 
- of an information net of people making their own shelters. 
/t contains instructions——as detailed as we could pull 
together~—on a dozen different types of domes, each with 
much variation possible. Everything worthwhile from 
Domebook One js included, there are details on domes we've 
_ built since then, and there is feedback from people who 
built domes from Domebook One. 
There are visual and mathematical sections on geodesics, 
a very complete chord factor section, elliptical geodesics, 
instructions on models, a section on trace-over paper models 
_and take-off points for various trips. 
_ The building information is better than Domebook One—— 
corrected, modified, clarified. 
There is now good informa- 
tion on sealing, floors, windows and other construction 
details. 
There are fairly complete instructions on foam and 
aluminum domes we have built, a five page section on 
domes built at the Ananda community in Grass Valley, a 
description of a ferro cement dome ona wood frame in 
lowa, a beautiful shake dome on a lake in Washington. 
_ There are cautionary words on shiny plastics as building 
materials_—don’‘t be afraid to use them, but be aware- 
- beware-of all qualities of the particular plastic and where it 
comes from before you decide to use it. There is 
emphasis on building with trash (“our only growing resource”’), 
used materials, whatever is lying around. Funk building, 
the architecture of necessity. 
This book is not so much specifically about domes as it is 
a call to get you moving, to take things in your own hands, 
to act. Most important to us in this process is to communi- 
- cate as we /earn, and in the future we'll act as a funnel of 
incoming shelter information. We plan another book by- 
1973, probably to be called Shelter, and we may put out 
supplementary data in between now and then. If you want 
us to let you know what we do next with shelter, film, 
video, publications——send us a postcard with your name 
and address. 
; 
[Reviewed by Lloyd Kahn] 
Domebook Two 
1971; 128pp. 
$5.00 postpaid 
from: 
: 
Shelter Publications 
Mountain Books 
P.O. Box 4811 
Santa Barbara, CA 93103 
or Random House 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Catalog- 
“Shelter’’ 
Windows and Doors 
2 X 4’s are used to frame in the windows and the doors. 
The door is made by dropping 
perpendiculars to a base triangle. The door can be made to swing either in or out. 
is 
——— 
Gevetm 
deor 
A very pleasing window pattern is with three windows inarow. 
The center window can 
be made to open and close. 
We made this window smaller by running the 2.X 4 frame 
parallel to the struts and hinging it at the top. 
Cardboard can be fastened with tabs. They should be as large. as you can manage. The 
| 
slots should be a jam fit. Pinch the tip of the male part before inserting. 
small cut tevds 
to lock tay in slof 
We decided on a long arc of window area to follow the 
sun, 2 doors(full triangles) and full triangle windows at the 
bottoms of 3 of the pentagons. Right now the'windows 
are covered with 12 mil vinyl. Send us glass! 
See Epilog, page 507 
° 
DESIGNING THE FERRO ARMATURE 
A. Geodesic Frames 
From the foregoing we see that a ferrocement dome can be structured as a self-supporting 
spherical shell, without formwork, However perhaps the simplest and safest way to 
describe the domical enclosure is by a geodesic net of wood or metal struts which support 
the mesh that gets ferrocemented. 
ees 
LAOS, 
AM. OCS) 
Regardless of the size of the dome, a higher frequency geodesic net will result in a more 
nearly “spherical” shell; and a lower fréquency will give a more “‘faceted”’ polyhedron. 
Although little experimental experience is available, it doesn’t seem to matter critically 
to the ferrocement how spherical it is. 
|f the mesh is abundant and continuous, and if the application technique is sound, then 
the ferrocement skin will transfer stresses across the dihedral angles of the triangular 
planes without cracking. (The skin may tend to sag between the struts when loaded with 
{ 
wet cement, giving a tentlike effect.) Therefore, it might be just as good and a lot more 
convenient to use a low frequency frame of fewer and larger struts, as did the Jensens. 
The Bevel Gauge 
The builder’s best friend at this stage of the game is the trusty bevel gauge. 
This is 
necessary because all the 2 X 4’s needed 
for framing in windows and doors have 
compound angles. A short picture course in finding t hese two angles: 
yy 
e 
Bee 
(al 
Z 
The most important trick is to make sure which length you are measuring and to be 
consistent in relating the angles you are finding to that length. If you have néver done 
this before then it is a lesson in patience. 
It usually takes cutting a few too short and 
backwards to catch on. Even though we made mistakes we miraculously found a use 
for all the wood. 
HOW MO TIRAWAN 
1 ON A SQUARE, OR 
EDGE OF SQUARE-CUT 
3 DRIVE TWO BRADS 
- PAPER, MARK MINOR 
* 
DISTANCE A-C APART 
4 TIE A LOOP 
AXIS OF DESIRED 
ea aad ross teks 
EXACTLY HALF 
ELLIPSE A-B 
Boe hi 
ie 
LENGTH OF 
Naas 
A-C PLUS B-C 
\ 
Girl cians, eee 
5 WITH LOOP ON BRADS, 
SWING PENCIL INSIDE IT 
TO DRAW ELLIPSE 
2 MARK LENGTH OF MAJOR AXIS 
FROM 8B TO C 
Dome Model Kits 
The Dome East kit costs $5, consists of nifty hubs. and 
struts. 
The Domecile kit costs $10, consists of geometric 
plastic panels. Models help you visualize somewhat... 
They 
may help on rudimentary structure. They also glorify 
trivial problems and obscure serious ones. Buildings 
built too scrupulously from models tend to look like 
models. Build buildings first, then models. 
—SB 
Dome East 
a 
aes 
Wendell Enterprises 
Domecile Kit Co. 
Box 922 
Box 954 
Hicksville, N.Y. 
11802 
Mendocino, CA. 95460 
No plans were ever drawn for our domes, only a few 
i 
sketches. Our blueprints have been mathematics. As you 
read the rest of the book, it may be helpful for you to know 
of the following general categories of dome construction: 
Sun Domes. The Sun Dome was-a swimming pool cover 
dome published by Fuller through Popular Science in 1966. 
For some time, this was the only geodesic geometry. 
available to anyone wanting to build a dome. The Sun 
Dome is made of triangles on frames that bolt together to 
make the dome. Some examples are Sun Dome, p. 14; Big 
Sur Dome, p. 16; Aluminum Sun Dome, p. 29; and Portable 
Pillow Dome, p. 44. 
Struts/skin domes. 
First the framework is put up, 
usually with various vertex connectors, then a skin applied. 
See Pacific Dome, p. 20. 
Flanged panel dome. 
Skin and struts are one-piece, with 
skin flanged over to form strut. Assembly is like the Sun 
Dome, usually with bolts, or rivets. 
Example: Aluminum. 
Triacon Dome, p. 26. 
Monolithic skin domes. Dome skin is applied in liquid 
form, hardens to make a one-piece rigid skin. See Egg 
Domes, P. 35; Muslin Foam Dome, p. 40; Ferro Cement 
Dome, p. 66. 
Tent Domes. A one-piece skin is either hung from, or 
draped over a frame. See Tent Domes, p. 48. 
The first section of the book was mathematics. What 
follows are our building and living experiences, and 
communication from other builders throughout the 
U.S. and Canada. 
: 
os
THE KEY 
Estelle was so furious she went to the bus intending to just 
get in and drive away and leave D.R. and the Greek to their stupid 
games. 
Leave leave leave was all she could think about. Go. 
Go. Go. Same old story. Same old broken’record. Same old 
thorny point on the never-ending cycle. 
She was crying now. That seemed like a broken record too. 
God; she thought. Do I ever cry a lot. Am! ever one whiny 
tearful bitch. 
Cry. Cry. Cry. 
Go. Go. Go. 
But Estelle couldn’t go because the Greek had taken the key. 
“You son of a bitch, give me that goddamn key!” 
She was about fifty yards from the Greek, and the wind was 
still blowing. 
“What?” called the Greek. “I can’t hear you.” 
Estelle ran a few yards toward the table. “I said you've got 
the goddamn key!” 
The Greek grinned and nodded his head vigorously. “} know 
it,” he called back. ‘I’ve always had the key.” 
“You slimy bastard!’ Estelle screamed. She glanced around 
the ground for a weapon of some kind to kill him with. But her 
eyes were too full of tears to see. She blanked out for a-moment 
then. The whole world went black as night and Estelle forget 
everything she knew. When she came to again she was in the bus 
‘ 
with the pill box in her hand, looking for a downer. 
‘ 
Domes 
Shelter 
7
