jpproach, beautifully done, and expensive. Get your library 
0 order it. 
2 
[Reviewed by Fred Richardson] 
Windmills & Watermills 
John Reynolds 
1970; 196 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid_ 
from: 
Praeger Publishers, Inc. 
111 Foutth St. 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
4 Wind and Batteries 
| would like to comment on a comment on p 39 January (I think) p 7 
March Re: small power plants for electricity generation. 
The plants (wind) I've seen in operation all used banks of storage bat— 
teries. These batteries of the common lead acid type used in cars will 
_ last several years-more than usual if taken care of (feed rain water and 
| keep charged up). Direct current is of course produced and some sort 
of inverter would have to be used to get AC out of the system. | recall 
_ arancher saying the company who sold him his system guaranteed the 
__ 
batteries 10 years; lots of technical data is available on batteries since 
~ telephone exchanges use them for emergency power. 
_ The use of batteries with either water wheel or wind generation systems 
allows large surge power output; with only a few watts charging on the 
average thousands of watts can be drawn intermittently. 
- Car alternators can be used for either water wheel or wind installations; 
1 recall seeing that VITA was working on such. They also had a design 
for a wind type which had a propeller made by cutting a 55 gallon 
drum along its axis and then offsetting the halves so that it became a 
_ two cup anemometer like rotor (1 don’t know how successful this was 
_ 
but suspect they may have had starting up problems when the wind 
died down all the way). When you use a car alternator you can use 
_ the regulator to keep the battery charged correctly too. The maximum 
Output of a car alternator is in the 300-600 watt range. 
be 
ie 
3 
BITATIO,, 
( 
nl F 
sano <7 mag 
4 
On large wind plants flywheels have been used to store energy between 
gusts; to make the whole thing efficient several transmissions must be 
__used and it’s pretty complicated. 
| think the aesthetics and ecology make gasoline fired power plants 
unattractive. 
Rural electric lines not only cost every month but often 
there is a line building charge on the order of a dollar or more per foot. 
_ Asingle auto battery will store enough to run a 40 watt flourescent 
lamp 10 hours; or a small radio transmitter etc. Don’t expect wind 
fired plants to run the electric heaters and other garbage. Washing 
___ machines are made with gasoline engines; refrigerators are made that 
run on kerosene. Solar electric cells are still to expensive (unless you 
happen to run into a heap NASA threw out!). We should all learn 
_ to live with less power use. Even if it is superficially cheap. 
“\'d be happy to try help with small generator problems but 
| don't know anything much about propane conversions! 
Less power to ya. 
= 
John K. Green 
Boulder, Colorado 
~P.S. Windmills still used a lot for water pumping. 
FEZ 
Dunlite 
Australian wind-driven electric plants, wind chargers. 
A wide variety of wind generator equipment and 
: 
appliances. They need detailed information on your wind 
situation and power needs before they can quote a price 
tor you. Write to: F. W. Davey & Co. Pty. Ltd. 
Box120 
— 
Oakleigh, 
Victoria, 3166 
Australia 
Three-blade, wind-driven power 
plant 
fitted 
with 
Automatic. 
Variable-pitch 
Propeller. 
Two 
models available. 
Solar Devices 
See Epilog, pages 530-533 
How to Make a Solar Still (Plastic Covered), by A. Whillier and 
G. T. Ward, 9 p., January 1965. $1.25 
How to Make a Solar Steam Cooker, by A. Whillier, 6 p., January 
1965. $1.25 
How to Heat Your Swimming Pool Using Solar Energy, by 
* 
A. Whillier, 2 p., January 1965. $.75 
How to Build a Solar Water Heater, by D. A. Sinson and T. 
Hoad, 10 p., February 1965. $0.90 
How to Construct a Cheap. Wind Machine for Pumping Water, 
by A. Bodek, 12 p., February 1965. $.90 
How to Make a Solar Cabinet Dryer for Agricultural Produce, 
by T. A. Lawand, 9 p., March 1966. $1.25 
Instructions for Constructing a Simple 8 Sq. Ft. Solar Still for 
Domestic Use and Gas Stations, by T. A. Lawand, 6 p., revised 
September 1967. $1.25 
Plans for a Glass and Concrete Solar Still, by T. A. Lawand and 
R. Alward, 9 p., December 1968. $4.50 
from: 
Brace Research Institute 
MacDonald College of McGill University 
Ste. Anne de Bellvue 800 
Quebec, Canada 
H32 2L4 
The working surfaces of the stones required careful preparation, and 
skilled stone dressers were craftsmen in their own right. When deal- 
ing with a new stone it was necessary first of all to produce a 
perfectly smooth surface. A laminated wooden straight edge was 
used with ‘raddle’, a composition of red oxide, to detect the high 
spots, and these were rubbed down with a fragment of burr stone. 
An extraordinary degree of accuracy was required, and achieved, 
in this operation. The dresser tested the edge of his wooden staff 
from time to time against a proof staff of cast iron, which was kept 
carefully protected from damage in a wooden case. The final aim 
was to achieve a surface very slightly dished, or hollowed, towards 
the centrai eye, ready to receive the system of ‘furrows’ which 
performed the actual operation of grinding. These were set out in 
patterns established through years of trial and error to suit the 
particular use to which the stone was to be put. |n common 
dressing, the surface was marked out into ten equal ‘harps’ or 
sectors, divided not by true radii, but by lines drawn at a tangent 
to the eye of the stone. This basic method of division, to be seen on 
Roman millstones, was to remain in use until the end of the 
traditional corn mill. Each ‘harp’ was subdivided into alternate 
‘lands’ and ‘furrows’, the latter cut to a depth which varied between 
one half and three quarters of an inch, and finished with a sharp 
arris on one side, an even slope up to the ‘land’ on the other. 
Finally a system of fine parallel grooves, the ‘stitching’ or ‘crack- 
ing’, was added to the surface of each land, a process calling for 
both skill and precision, experienced men being able to cut as many 
as 16 ‘cracks’ to the inch. The dressing was so arranged that when 
the stones were in their working position, face to face, the ‘furrows’ 
crossed at each revolution, cutting the grain with the action of 
scissor blades. As the stones became dulled with wear they ceased 
to grind efficiently, and frequent re-dressing was required. This 
involved the deepening of ‘furrows’ and the renewal of ‘stitching’, 
and with a pair of French burrs, might become necessary every two 
or three weeks. 
Wind Generators 
Two U.S. sources of wind generating equipment, less 
sophisticated than Quirk’s. 
Bucknell Engineering Co. 
10717 E. Rush St: 
South El Monte, California 91733 
Information for $3.00 
Dyna Technology, Inc. 
P.O. Box 3263 
Sioux City, lowa 51102 
) aE Biome 
ee > eas 
eS 
As soon as the bus began to roll the Greek launched into his 
first monologue of the day. It was actually his tenth one, but the 
first that Divine Right had heard, and: it blew into the middle of 
his acid high like a rock band showing up at your house for supper. 
Estelle was so sleepy the words merely pricked her awareness, 
like flies flitting about on her skin, but the words were like sudden 
good music 
to D.R.’s mind. They energized and charged him up at 
the same time they smoothed out his waking, day-long dream. 
D.R. had never heard a voice like the Greek’s before. He’d never 
heard anyone speak that confidently that rapidly. The rap was 
two or three:minutes old before D.R. even realized that a strange 
THE GREEK’S FIRST RAP 
man and woman had taken over the bus and was driving them away. 
If it had been a silent fellow mysteriously behind the wheel, 
acid-paranoia would have overwhelmed and terrified D.R. But 
this was a talker, a speaker, and D.R. trusted him implicitly. For 
a long time he lay there next to Estelle, taking in the Greek’s words 
as he would a song. But he felt like moving about, and although 
he was weak and shaky he made his way to the front of the bus 
and situated himself on a box of stuff just behind the front seats. 
“What | envision,” the Greek was saying, ‘is a world entirely 
free from mucus. 
‘I’m convinced that if mucus can be overcome 
_ then everything else will fall into place. War. Poverty. Racism. 
All second-level stuff in the gross dimension, and absolutely 
avoidable if people would only give up their attachment to mucus- 
making foods. 
“Now | know a lot of people are on a dairy-protein trip. You 
hear a lot about yoghurt, cheese, eggs, and brown rice these days. 
And it’s true that protein is essential. But what's got to happen 
is that people must quit accepting mucus as the price of protein 
in their bodies. As anyone who has studied the sex and dietary 
habits of the ancient Sumerians can tell you, there's lots of pro- 
tein available in non-mucus-making foods. But the thing about 
people in the west is nobody’s interested in what he eats, now, 
let alone people in ancient cultures. Since the industrial revolu- 
tion, people have become mere spectators of their own lives, 
eating what's sold to them, thinking what's told to them, never 
giving a thought to life after the arbitrary cut-off point the mucus 
propagandists have established as natural. That’s why eighty is 
considered extremely old in places like the United States. 
It's 
due to nothing other than the American mucus conspiracy, 
business men, capitalists, money-mongers of the lowest order, out 
to make money peddling food that causes mucus that causes people 
to die when they’re about seventy-five or eighty. 
Wind & Sun 
Land Use 
’; 
f
