Mark V Portable Therm’X 
| (3,000-12,000 BTU heat range) 
| $99.95 from local dealers 
; or 
| 1280 Columbus Ave. 
| Airstream Travel Trailer 
I’ve lived in a 22’ Airstream with wife and two cats for most 
of three years now~ It’s the only higi:-tech home I’ve found 
‘at all lovable, indeed comparable to the way some ocean- 
going boat owners feel about living on board. The Airstream is 
an elegant honest design-job. 
It makes us parsimonious 
‘(and conscious) about using water, gas, power. 
It frees us 
from owning land, and encourages us to live in wilder 
places. It is proof from fire, earthquake, floods (drive away) 
|and mice (except what the cats bring in and lose). 
It’s one 
of the few domes | know that doesn’t leak. When we travel 
with it, wherever we go we‘re coming home. One more 
|month of production and we’re hauling ass and house out 
‘of here to the desert. 
=SB 
| Therm’x Heaters 
Therm’X catalytic propane heaters are neat, safe, silent, 
odorless, ventless, hot, and very efficient. 
The 6000 BTU 
| model, enough for a typical camping bus, will run wide open 
for more than 100 hours on a 5 gallon propane bottle. 
(The 
usual heater of the same rating runs about 15 hours on the 
same bottle). Tney light instantly without trickery and 
regulate nicely to the desired output. Full heat appears a- 
‘bout a minute after it starts, is mostly radiant, and feels 
good. There’s an eerie red glow in the dark, but it won't 
ignite gasoline fumes, for instance. Emissions are very 
small amounts of CO2 and water vapor. We haven't had 
any trouble with the vapor condensing on things. The 
heaters cost a lot more than the local Bernz and Turner 
competition, but the Therm’X has the advantage of a 
positive automatic safety shut-off in case of trouble, and 
| it is a handier shape to install. She also comes in a 12,000 
model. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Jay Baldwin] 
Therm’X Corporation Inc. 
San Francisco, CA 94133 
Bure THERE — 
W 
Katadyn Pocket Filter 
| Perhaps these devices would be of interest to some of the people, 
especially those travelling in tropical countries. 
We can vouch for the pocket filter walking through Switzerland, 
| Italy and Yugoslavia we drank from puddles cemeteries and fetid 
marshes. Sometimes the water tasted like diluted cough syrup but 
we thrived never once having an instance of sickness. 
This added up to a tremendous saving in not having to look for safe 
water supplies or carry so much at a time or worry. 
| Note that the filters only remove biological contaminants from the 
water— insecticides, fertilizers salt and other chemicals whose 
size is many orders of magnitude smaller are not filtered out. 
| Katadyn told us they used to have an agency in L.A. but that at the 
q 
present time the simplest way to order ts directly from the factory. 
Write to find exact cost including postage and insurance and then 
| send acheck. They are a great firm to deal with. 
John and Jane 
Rochester, New York 
| 
Costs about $60 (plus shipping), pumps about a gallon in 5 minutes. 
Katadyn Pocket Filter 
Philmar Company 
P.O. Box 154, CH-8304 Wallisellen 
Industriestrasse 27, Switzerland 
Our test was run as follows: The hand operated pumping unit was 
taken to Missouri River where the packing house waste and sewage 
enters the main stream. A sample was taken from the Missouri 
without Katadyn treatment for control. The pump was operated on 
the Katadyn unit sucking Missouri River water through the unit and 
discharging it into a sterile bottle. We found this sample to contain 
no intestinal organisms of any kind after being pumped through 
this unit; and thus this water, after treatment, meets the standards 
of the Health Department for potability. 
The sample that was collected from the Missouri River without 
treatment showed polution of intestinal organisms of all types 
present in extremely high numbers. 
In our opinion, from the result of this test, this process would be 
very satisfactory for the bacterial purification of water for drinking 
Purposes on hunting and camping trips. 
T. E. COROTHERS 
Bacteriologist 
City of Sioux City, lowa 
Reported: 
Some current prices in Bay Area 
1974 
27: 
$5955 
1971 
Zils 
$5400 
1970 
23’ 
$5400 
1965 
20’ 
$4500 
1965 
17’ 
$2800 
/f you buy in August when the sales on this year’s models start, you 
may save $1,000 or so. For nearest dealer consult yellow pages or: 
Airstream 
107 Church St. 
Jackson Center, Ohio 45334 
15939 Piuma Ave. 
Cerritos, CA 90701 
- Quench Water Purifier 
Here’s what they say about it. We haven’t used one. Recycle 
your piss. 
~ 
—SB 
MAKES CRYSTAL CLEAR, DISTILLED WATER FROM 
Sea Water 
: 
Lake and Stream Water 
Hard Water 
Contaminated Water 
REMOVES ALL SOLID IMPURITIES 
AS EASY TO OPERATE AS A COFFEE POT 
NO FILTERS TO CHANGE 
STARTS UP IN FIVE MINUTES 
COMPLETELY SAFE 
MAKES UP TO 2 QUARTS OF PURE WATER EVERY HOUR 
USES HEAT FROM ANY-SOURCE 
Camp Stove 
Sports Stove 
Camp Lantern 
Gas or Electric Range 
Campfire (bed of coals) 
Laboratory Burner 
The QUENCH Water De-Salter/Purifier supplies fresh water 
wherever you are. All that’s needed is a source of water; any 
water, and a source of concentrated heat; any heat. The QUENCH 
De-Salter delivers up to two quarts of fresh, clear, salt and 
mineral free, distilled water every hour for as little as 1¢ per quart. 
Models with built-in electric heaters also available. 
Cost: $99.00 
Terraqua Products, Inc. 
915 S. Grand St. 
San Pedro, CA 90731 
a 
Monomatic Toilet 
Every time you take a dump or a leak in a standard john, you 
flush five gallons of water out with your piddle. Five gallons 
in the Monomatic accomodates one hundred uses before it 
needs replacing. 
The cycling system, involving a chemical 
and filtration, was developed for the airlines and has spun 
off into general use for recreational vehicles such as campers, 
trailers, boats, etc. 
It might also be useful for water-short 
areas such as deserts, mountain tops,and New York. 
—SB 
Monomatic Toilet 
$195.00 approx. 
from: 
trailer supply dealers or write 
Monogram Industries, Inc. 
10131 National Blvd. 
Los Angeles, CA 90034 
The chemical costs $4.75/box. The Monomatic runs on 12 volt 
current. 
| see where they have a box that disguises your toilet 
as a suitcase. 
WATER INLET SUPPLIED 
—~€—WITH MODEL W ONLY 
If Monomatic is installed 
without holding tank 
connect drain hose here 
19” 
Built in 
Drain Valve 
Pprtertece= 
=—==cte 
Trailer Floor ‘OPTIONAL HOLDING TANK; 
' papprbes ha eet 
; 
a 
wi 
olding 
tank, 
a SUPPLIED BY OTHERS 
-’ ,connect drain hose here 
p> 10” Min. 4 
Incinerating Toilets 
It you prefer fire to water, try Destroilet, which cooks the 
living shit out of you. No water. Requires gas and elec- 
tricity. $419 from Lamere Industries Inc., 301 N. Main St., 
Walworth, Wisc. 53184 
Monomatic Note 
The monomatic-type toilets have been available here for 
several years. The chemicals (which keep the smell down) 
have caused problems since they utterly destroy all 
bacteria. Thus, when you dump the bucket in your 
friendly neighborhood sewer system, their bacteria 
(which eat the garbage) are destroyed which makes them 
unhappy. 
Martin Minow 
Bromma, Sweden 
Recreational Vehicle Equipment 
If you’re outfitting a bus, camper, or trailer with lights, 
refrigerator, stove, furnace, windows, vents, sink, shower, 
toilet, etc., check on local suppliers. 
One mailorder supplier is: 
Briggs Trailer Supply 
3520 Portola Drive 
Santa Cruz, CA 95060 
VERTICAL 
1.C.C. TANKS 
MONKEYING AROUND 
In D.R.’s mind the bus was a total wreck and he was ready to 
leave it and go on to town with Virgil and find a mechanic who 
could fix it for him. But Virgil said let's take a look at it since 
we’re here. About two minutes after he lifted the hood and shined 
his light on the problem he had Urge’s motor and the headlights 
working as well as they ever had. 
“How did you do that?” asked D.R. 
“Oh,” said Virgil. “I just said a little prayer and monkeyed 
with it.’’ He laughed then and settled back in his seat as D.R. 
put Urge in gear and pulled back onto the blacktop. 
Campers & Trailers 
Nomadics 
