i 
\ For Facts About Alaska Lands write to: 
rf 
x 
| Alaska Dept. of Natural Resources 
_ Division of Lands 
| 
323 E. Fourth Ave. 
_ Anchorage, Alaska 99501 
_ Anybody living at all rough in Alaska (or elsewhere) can 
_ use the invaluable publications from University of Alaska 
Extension. Well-handled subjects like “Canning Moose & 
_ Caribou”, “Sourdough”, “Fruit Trees in Your Yard”, 
_ “Greenhouses in Alaska”, “Fur Parka”, “General Pelt 
- Care”, “Game is Good Food”, “Wild Berry Recipes”. 
" Write to: 
Cooperative Extension Service 
University-of Alaska 
Fairbanks, Alaska 99701 
Free to Alaskans, $.25 per copy on all publications mailed 
outside the state. Wild Berry Recipes an additional $.50. 
: Alaska State Land 
I don’t know so much about Fed. land up here in Alaska, but the 
state has a deal going where anyone who wants to take the 
trouble of coming up here and doing the footwork can stake out 
5 acres along interior rivers and isolated coastal areas around 
Kodiak, the Alaska Penn., Kenai Penn, and “south-eastern.” You 
must be 19 or over, and the land must be surveyed and bought. 
_ Costs run around $200/acre plus surveying (another $1,0002). 
I sure hope that anyone who comes up here please doesn’t pollute 
the place, it’s bad enough already. 
| 
; 
Daniel G. Leen 
Fairbanks, Alaska 
| 
' 
“If You Could Live Here a Year 
| 
One can buy land privately from individuals who may or may not 
_ 
be speculators. One can buy and lease land from the State. We 
| are going up to Palmer in a couple of weeks and big on five acres of 
| wilderness. The minimum the state wants for this five acres is 
$675.00. One hears about these land auctions through a publication 
_ 
called Alaska Land Lines, which is published by the State Depart- 
\ 
ment of Lands, and sent only to Alaskan addresses. Some of their 
land goes by lease. You can have it five years and then another 
five, and then if you want to own it you have to hire a surveyor. 
This is expensive. 
: 
Also, there are mineral lands to be had from the U.S., but again 
you have to have proof of ‘color’, that there are minerals, before 
| 
they let you use it. You never own these, and you have to go in 
yearly and do $100.00 worth of work on your claims (1 think that 
is right. It has been a long time since | took the course at 
Community College). 
Alaska is 500 miles from north to south, and 1500 from east to 
west. There are parts of it that have not been surveyed, or even 
walked on. Alaska is not for an “effete snob’. 
If you can’t 
face realities you couldn't stand to live here. Because the reali- 
ties are harsh. We have bears, and each year the magistrates 
_go into the bear caves looking for buttons, to declare so-and-so 
dead. We have had 40 sightings of bears in an around Anchorage 
this year so far. | am scared of bears. We have horrible weather 
in the winter. Sometimes. The winters are sometimes cold and 
long——always long, and sometimes cold. | remember one 
winter when it stayed less than 30 below for 3 weeks straight. 
1 made the mistake of turning the car handle with a bare hand. 
‘Now each winter the palm of my hand hurts where it was frost- 
bit. We lose people to the elements. There was a guy——a GI—— 
here three weeks at Fort Richardson a couple of years ago. He 
went for a little hike and got lost. He died less than 100 yards 
from the entrance to the Fort. They called it exposure, but it 
‘was just plain fright, from. being lost in the wilderness. 
| knew 
_a guy that goes on rescue missions. He says all the people he 
_has rescued are out of their heads from fright by the time he 
finds them——that is, the ones who are still alive. 
| have been down to the Land Office a couple of times and | 
see young long-haired people looking over the maps of what is 
available for lease or purchase from the State, and | am glad to see 
_ this. In spite of the putdown of young people that is going on in 
some places——and some places there, too——| hope they can 
‘winter through. 
It has always been a saying that if you could 
live here a year you could stay and would stay. 
It is possible 
_ to live off the land yet, but takes planning and the knowhow. 
‘ 
: 
Peacefully yours, 
ed 
B. Duffy 
: 
* 
Anchorage Alaska 
Jobs in Alaska booklet 
‘ 
It’s very businesslike so’s not 2 offend the locals who forget 
that they too were once strangers here — but having gone thru 
| the job hunting scene here myself 
in summers 65, 6 & 70,1 
can say this would have been a handy & welcome tool. (Do 
you have any idea how hard it is for someone w/a college 
_ education to find any outdoor job? Of course you do...) 
I would also suggest that the jobbee have many Form 57’s 
(standard U.S. Govt. employment info. form which one may 
pick up at any lg. post office) filled out in advance (partially, 
so you can b.s. your experience to fit the application, and 
in full, so you can just drop it off and not have to sit in the 
personnel offices) as that will save much time which could be 
used legging down other jobs. 
- Thank you and many etceteras, 
Scott 
Semans 
Anchorage, Alaska 
4 obs In Alaska 
$2 
from: 
P.O. Box 1565 
Anchorage, Alaska 99501 
Canada 
Agricultural Information 
New Canadian immigrants who are setting up farms or looking for 
suitable sites should acquaint themselves with the publications of 
the various Departments of Agriculture. In addition to the Canada 
Dept. of Agric. each province has a department of its own. Most 
publications are free. The quality however, is subject to great 
variability. Some are excellent, some are disappointing. The 
subjects covered range from very general (‘‘Farming in Canada’’) 
to very specific (“Control of the Purple Backed Cabbage Worm 
in Newfoundland”). 
The Canada Department of Agriculture will send copies of up 
to ten publications free to individuals. The List of Publications 
is available from: Information Division, Can. Dept. Ag., Ottawa. 
They also offer for sale at $2 each a great series of soil surveys— 
very useful to anyone considering buying land for farming. 
Each province has its own Department of Agriculture. 
1n Ontario 
the provincial dept. will send up to ten free publications to each 
adult resident who requests. The list of publications is available 
from: Information Branch, Ministry Ag. and Food, Parliament 
Buildings, Toronto. 
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Ruppell 
Hearst, Ontario 
SELECTiONS: Canada Department of Agriculture publications 
1296 
Farming in Canada. 60 pp. Illus. 1966 
1224 
Climate of the Upper Peace River region. 20 pp. 
Illus. 
868 
Manures and compost. 
16 pp. 1962 
Catalogue of Plans: Sheep housing and equipment. 
; 
28 pp. 
Illus. 1965 
1019 
Sunflower Seed production. 24 pp. 
Illus. 1967 
849 
Plums for cold areas of Eastern Canada. 
16 pp. 
Illus. 
1217 
Culture of cigarette burley tobacco. 8 pp. 
Illus. 1964 
1205 
How to grow mushrooms. 
16 pp. Illus. 1965 
1127 
Swine Breeding. 36 pp. Illus. 1962 
1023 
The dairy goat. 16 pp. 
Illus. 1957 
861 
Mushroom collecting for beginners. 32 pp. Illus. 1958 
1192 
Gardening in the Yukon. 32 pp. Illus. 1963 
1322 
Booklice. 
1 pp. 1967 
1362 
How to grade furs. 96 pp. 
Illus. 
1968 
ONTARIO Ministry of Agriculture and Food 
128 
Beekeeping in Northern Ontario—unavailable 
487 
The Grape in Ontario 
502 
Table Turnips—unavailable 
94 
Cultured Dairy Products—unavailable 
193 
Tractor Transmission Systems—unavailable 
476 
Farm Water Supply—unavailable 
321 
~~ 
Wine Making in Small Quantities 
283 
White Grubs—unavailable 
226 
2,4—D Can Damage Crops 
Monthly Seasonal Fruit and Vegetable Report 
British Columbia Land 
These folks are compiling an information book about land 
acquisition in British Columbia. 
Write to: 
Statement of Intent 
17 Boyd St. 
Victoria, B.C. 
Canada 
The job market in Alaska is difficult for strangers to understand, 
since a vast amount of rumor and wildly inaccurate information 
abound. Get-rich-quick stories are the most common, and few of 
them are true. Wages and salaries are significantly higher than 
in the Lower 48, but the high cost of living in Alaska erodes much 
of the difference. 
In most ways, the economy of Alaska is 
similar to that of the rest of the United States. 
If, however, you 
want to earn a lot of money in a short time, and are willing to 
work tong and hard, then there are some opportunities in Alaska. 
One way to get rich quick in Alaska is to get on the payroll of a 
company which is willing to pay overtime premiums for long 
hours of work needed to complete projects on a rush basis. The 
majority of these jobs, however, are located in ‘‘the bush,” 
which is anywhere outside the state’s major cities and towns. 
(In-town construction usually proceeds in.a,normal daily manner.) 
Construction projects are the most likely places to have the jobs 
which pay a lot of overtime, but most of their positions are 
filled by trained, experienced, union workers. 
Other seasonal jobs, such as working on a fishing boat or in a 
cannery, may offer large amounts of pay for work lasting a 
relatively short time, but the money will be well earned through 
gruelingly long hours of very hard work. 
Crown Lands 
The Acquisition of Crown Lands in British Columbia (Land Series 
Bulletin No. 11) is the official word on procedure, regulations and 
the access to further information on obtaining government lands 
in B.C. 
(I'd guess that the other provinces publish similar 
bulletins.) Get it free from the Government Printing Bureau, 
Victoria, B.C. Comes with 2 maps of B.C. (back to back): No.1— 
Land Recording Districts and a list of Land Series Bulletins Nos 1-10 
(each is reputed to give info on physical features and economy 
of subdivisions of the province.) 
No. 2—Index to Provincial Land 
Status Maps.—each divides available from non-available lands in a 
small area of B.C. 
The procedures for obtaining gov't land in B.C. sound arduous and 
in all cases except outright purchase, access is limited to British 
subjects or immigrants. Nonetheless, far mare cheap land appears 
to be available in Canada than in the States. We'll be checking these 
rumors, gathering information and looking for land this year. We'll 
keep you informed. 
Bill Dickinson 
Marysville, WN 
Immigration 
The canadian immigration department practically requires that a 
prospective immigrant have assurance of ajob, evidenced by a. 
letter from the employer, along with a bank statement (savings 
book, etc.) showing sufficient funds to support ones self and 
family for a year or so, a couple of thousand will do. some folks 
have done this by borrowing such a sum, depositing it in a bank, 
getting a statement to that effect, then withdrawing the sum, 
returning it to the owner and retaining the bank statement 
for 
immigration purposes. 
also, ownership of land is another point in 
your favor. Even a small parcel (a city-type lot) which are available 
cheaply through tax-land companies can help establish your sin- 
cerity in becoming a useful, purposive canadian subject, which 
is what the immigration dept. wants. 
~—Tracy 
RITUAL 
‘I'm coming, you guys, wait for me, I’m coming!” is what D.R. 
tried to say, but only garbled idiocy came out. And even if it 
hadn’t been garbled idiocy the people he was calling to could not 
have understood what he said, because of the ceaseless wind. 
They were in a paved rest area just off the freeway, a hard, tree 
less place with white lines marking off the parking places, and 
concrete picnic tables permanently established beyond acurb. At 
the far end of the paved area a big trailer-truck was parked parallel 
to the curb across a couple dozen diagonal parking lines. Near it 
a family surrounded a picnic table, eating food. The Greek had 
established himself seven or eight tables down the line from the 
family, where he was preparing to do his daily food ritual. He 
usually did the ritual at sundown, but since they had stopped, and 
because everybody’s nerves seemed a little on edge, the Greek felt 
a soothing ceremony was called for, to cool the vibe a little, and 
bring everybody together. 
: 
When they first stopped Estelle wandered off by herself among 
the dunes, but when she heard D.R.’s yell and saw him having. 
trouble negotiating his way from the bus to the table, she went 
back to help him along. 
His arm around her neck, carrying him 
like a drunk, they staggered up to the table in time to observe the 
Greek setting up his scene. 
It was a simple scene to set up because the only food in- 
volved was walnuts and water, and no dishes or utensils were 
involved. The Greek carried his walnuts, already hulled, in a 
leather bag about the size of a woman’s purse. The water was ina 
gallon plastic jug with a label on it that said, ‘’Pure-O Artesian 
Drinking Water. Rich in Natural Minerals.” The Greek unfolded 
a black cloth about the size of a pillow case and spread it on the 
table. He set the jug on the eastward corner of the cloth, and placed 
the nut bag diagonally across from it with the open top laid out 
toward the west. As he picked up his first walnut the Greek bowed 
three times to the east, and then three times to the west as he 
picked up the jug and drank from it. When he’d chewed and 
swallowed the walnut he closed his eyes and held his palms to- 
gether in front of his face in an attitude of prayer. 
"F..f....f," D.R. stammered. "F..f..f." 
The Greek opened his eyes to see who was speaking. Although 
he'd only been praying about five seconds he frowned as if he’d 
been disturbed from a deep sleep. 
“What's he trying to say?” the Greek snapped. 
“He's probably trying to say far out,” said Estelle. ’’D.R. 
says far out a lot.” 
“Why doesn’t he go ahead and say it, then?” 
"1 don’t know,” said Estelle. “Ask him.” 
“Hey,” yelled the Greek. “’Get away from those walnuts.” 
D.R. had turned away from the Greek and was grooving on 
the leather walnut bag. The rough side of the leather was out, so 
that when you rubbed your finger across it, it made a pattern that 
seemed to D.R. extraordinarily beautiful. He heard the Greek: 
tell him to stay away, but it surprised him when the Greek took 
him roughly. by the arm. 
"You're not supposed to get into the walnuts until we've pre- 
pared our hearts and minds,” said the Greek. "Kindly wait.’’ 
The Greek closed his eyes and folded his hands and began 
again to prepare their hearts and minds to receive the walnuts. 
Stoned as he was, D.R. felt like his heart and mind were already 
prepared, but he certainly did not want to disrupt the ritual. The 
ritual was beautiful to D.R. The Greek was beautiful, the walnuts 
were beautiful, all the world around was beautiful, beautiful. 
Inhaling deeply, D.R. folded his hands and closed his eyes, and 
listened to the Greek’s prayer. 
Canada & Alaska 
Land Use 
