eT 
ee 
— 
oe 
ee 
i Be 
ed 
a 
See 
Horns, Strings, and Harmony 
This is. a very clear and fairly comprehensive introduction to 
musical physics, with suggestions for experiments to be 
performed by the reader at home. 
It is a paperback of 260 
pages with a good bibliography for further study. 
The 
author is a physicist and musician; the book is written for 
musicians and amateur physics teachers. 
There are three main divisions of subject matter: 
1) Theoretical discussions of the principles of vibration, 
Chapters II, I!1, and VII 
2) Practical applications, 
Chapters 1V and V — the physics of hearing 
(strings, brass, woodwinds) 
Fig. 66. Over-all layout of machinery for a Boehm-style flute. The large arrows show the 
j; 
i 
finger and thumb holes, while the numbers refer to particular hole positions as explained in 
3) Homemade wind instrumen ts, Chap ter x. 
the text. The right-hand part of this diagram also applies to the clarinet. 
Familiarity with algebraic concepts is necessary throughout; 
access to musical instruments is helpful. Most of the 
experiments can be done at home without too much 
difficulty or expense (whistles, string, beads, etc.). 
The chapter on homemade instruments is for accomplished 
wind instrumentalists who are also confident with hand 
too/s. 
[Reviewed by Peter Lynn Sessions. 
Suggested by Allen Watson 111] 
The Acoustical Foundations of Music 
Here it is, folks! The hard-core treatment of the physics of 
music. You'll get the most out of this one if you enjoyed 
high-school physics. If you hated physics, skip this one and 
try Horns, Strings, and Harmony by Benade. You may end 
up with this one /ater-- 
Backus put everything into this book that he would like to 
cover in a college course (for musicians) but couldn’t 
because there is too much of it for one semester. He likes 
to play with equations, and gives a lot of them, but | 
couldn’t use them to compute the power output of a 
guitar string. Designers of instruments who want to start 
from the ground up should read at least parts of this 
book. A theoretical tool if you‘re into theory-building; 
| haven’t had it long enough to see if it serves as a useful 
reference source. 
[Reviewed by Peter Lynn Sessions] 
The Acoustical Foundations of Music 
John Backus 
1969; 312pp. 
from: 
¥ 
W. W. Norton 
_, 
500 Fifth Ave. 
$9.75 postpaid 
20 York, NY.10036 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Fic. 1. 
Multiple reflections from the walls of a room of a 
single impulse produced by a sound source. 
Oak Publications — Quick Fox 
I was interested in your inclusion of autoharps, dulcimers, etc. As 
an old folkie this warmed the cockles of my otherwise hibernating 
heart. 
Well, ifn folks is gonna build or buy these kinda things, 
they’s gonna hafta learn ta play em, I reckon. And for that may I 
suggest Oak Publications. 
Their list of books just keeps on growin 
like Topsy. Among the ones we've used and found valuable are 
“Note Reading & Music Theory for Folk Guitarists” 
—a most 
amazing book. Taught what and why-a chord 1s, also how to create 
‘em. “Beginning the Folk Guitar,” “‘Folk Singer’s Guitar Guide 
Vol. 1 & 2,” “Folksingers Guide to 12 string, as per Leadbelly,” 
“The Art of Folk Blues Guitar,”” “How to Play 5-string Banjo 
by Seeger,” and “The Dulcimer Book by Ritchie” have also been 
pretty nice to have around. Frankly, Oak’s instruction books are 
the only ones I’ve ever seen that I could even RELATE to, let 
alone learn from, straight forward & well done. 
In addition to these fine funky instructo manuals they have lotsa 
song collections (in case your memories a little fuzzy) for all 
shades of people. “Reprints from Sing Out” goes on for volumes 
& volumes, some bettern’n others (I mean where else can you 
find the words to “Plastic Jesus”’?) and in addition they carry 
some off-the-wall collections from Russia, France, Egypt, etc. 
plus books on playing steeldrums (& how to make em), dulcimer, 
recorder, fiddle, blues harp (another goodie!), even sitar. Most 
of em are paper, usually illustrated, and around 2.95-3.95. But 
for my money Oak is THE publisher when it comes to down 
home funky music. Their address, by the way, is Oak Publications, 
33 W. 60th St., New York, N.Y. 10023. 
Love & peace 
Andi Lewis 
Ottawa, Ontario 
Music 
Communications 
Garden City, N. Y. 11531 
EARTH 
7 
=> 
CATALOG 
6) 
z 
\) 
Chapters VI, VIII, and 1X — instrumental design 
( ) C) 
8 
Horns, Strings, and Harmony 
Arthur H. Benade 
1960; 269 pp. 
$1.95 postpaid 
: 
| HORNS, 
from: 
Doubleday & Co. 
501 Franklin 
or WHOLE 
Thus we see that the real test of a good violin is not in the ears of the 
listener, but rather in the hands of the player. 
If he can get the 
range of effects he wants, without strain, then he has a good instru- 
ment. Except in a minor way, by clearing away some of the most 
obvious stupidities, physics has not been able to help him very. much 
more than has the witchcraft that has grown up lush and rank around 
this beautiful instrument. 
e 
Once again the flute is different from other woodwinds; it needs no 
bell for two reasons: 
first because the vibration recipe of any flute, 
old or new in style, is so‘lacking in the higher components that very 
little sound energy is present above the change-over frequency, and, 
second, the very large holes of the modern Boehm flute serve to cut 
off the tube so effectively that all the notes think of themselves as 
coming out of the end of an ordinary pipe! 
Improvising Jazz 
An exceptionally clear explanation and analysis with original 
examples of the concepts basic to modern jazz composition 
and instrumental improvisation. But the title is deceptive. 
Modern jazz is 20th Century harmony superimposed on 
traditional types of chora progression, and this book should 
be of use to any student (or teacher) of musical practice. 
The fundamental ideas of chord structure, notation, chord 
progression, modulation, and variation of motivic and 
thematic material, including a simplified chord symbolism, 
are presented in edible portions. 
The discussion of the more 
exotic concepts of chord/scale relationships, chord super- 
imposition, and functional chord substitution, are among 
the best | have seen, including college texts. 
_This book 
is a solid value that becomes more and more useful with 
every rereading. 
. 
[Suggested and reviewed by Peter Lynn Sessions] 
What is the soloist doing when he attempts to “‘build’’? Actually the 
- 
Kord 
ideal process hardly ever takes place—that is, it is hardly ever the 
case that a conscientious soloist plays a thinking solo for a hard- 
listening hearer—but when this does happen, the key process is 
memory. The soloist has to establish for the listener what the 
whistle a little, 
herahie ll POINT, the motif if you like, is, and then show as 
used to have a trumpet lip, 
much 
as he can of what it is that he sees in that motif, extending 
7 
; 
the relationships of it to the basic while never giving the feeling 
but i a oe theory blind. 
5 
F 
he has forgotten it. In other words, | believe that it should bea 
Kord is 
anew music theory practice magazine, 
« 
basic principle to use repetition, rather than variety—but not too 
for people who are trying to understand music 
much. The listener is constantly making predictions; actual 
“. 
while they are plunking and whistling. 
infinitesimal predictions as to whether the next event will be a 
repetition of something, or something different. The player is 
constantly either confirming or denying these predictions in the 
listener’s mind. As nearly as we can tell (Kraehenbuehl at Yale 
and |), the listener must come out right about 50% of the time— 
if he is too successful in predicting, he will be bored; if he is too 
unsuccessful, he will give up and call the music “disorganized.” 
L 
How to phy 
i. 
the b-siving Bap 
by 
Rete See ger 
& 
BEGINNING 
THE FOLK GUITAR 
& HARMONY 
|. 
‘Improvising Jazz 
ican plunk an autoharp some, 
looks pretty useful. 
varied nature. Submissions are welcomed. Preference will be given to 
previously unpublished work. 
& 
F 
ed 
Ree 
oO 
iY 
ee 
ry 
i 
Sl 
“4, 
>~*s 
WOODWINDS 
BRASIL WHUNT® 
STRINGS 
Fig. 46. The size of a side hole affects a pipe’s vi- 
brational frequencies. The extent of thé effect is il- 
lustrated here by comparing different hole sizes with 
pipe lengths that give matching frequencies. Each 
pipe in the lower row has a frequency matching that 
of the holed pipe immediately above it. 
Jerry Coker 
1964; 115 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
. 
from: 
Prentice-Hall, Inc. 
Englewood Cliffs, N. J. 
07632 
or WHOLE EARTH 
~jd 
[Suggested by Peter Sessions] 
Kord 
Eric Kriss, ed 
Defunct 
