LEE : 
Q 
TAET 
With the arrival of the TV crew we felt how 
exposed we were. Flat parking lot concrete. 
Hot sun. Cameras. The good citizens of 
~ Hayward peering at us over the wall, as if 
_ they had never seen fasting long-hairs before. 
_ Some of us got uptight, tried to find a spot 
_as far away from the eyes as possible, but 
; finally there seemed nothing to do but become 
transparent, get used to it and continue living. 
A question about getting high. Some people 
smoked grass, as discreetly as possible. For 
others, the paranoia level was too much—all 
_ those people watching. Others preferred 
_ meditation, yoga. The first three days we did 
|. group breathing exercises. (Meditation and 
_ yoga seemed good survival skills; it was easier 
_ to survive the noise, tension, nothing to do 
time; it gave moments of solitude in a week 
of constant social living.) 
Truly, The Eyes of Hayward were upon us. 
_ But it was all right. Most spectators had never 
be _ had the chance to observe tribal ways so 
"The comeerony phase didn’t last long. Kids 
invented the game of punching holes in the 
raft. A Hole Patrol was armed with tape. It 
what we were doing. Some Liferafters wanted 
wanted to let spectators wander around inside. 
Most of us felt exposed enough. Again, the 
open/closed division. Gandalf said, If you 
can’t get through to them outside it. The end 
result was that more of us spent more time in 
communication yoga, rapping with spectators 
_over the wall. 
It was twenty-four hour parking-lot theatre; 
main action was not eating. Suspense was 
_, supplied by how long we would last. It was 
hard for maity spectators to see the connection 
between our “game” of not eating and getting 
é along with each other and our “message”. It 
was hard for some of us to see the connection 
also. Anyone who didn’t was welcome. And 
7 some came just to fast, as self-purification, as 
a joyous, positive act. To some the link of 
r fasting to starvation ecology Saad was a 
bring- -down. 
The political/spiritual iancoas was always 
present. Yet for many of us it was not real. 
Some learned what it was like to fast; some 
__ 
learned what it was like to be hungry; most 
of us learned both. 
Fasting to get high, to purify, to understand 
_the root fear of infant helplessness when the 
breast did not come on time; did not cancel 
out fasting to know hunger, to call human 
attention to present and future starvation 
of food and space and silence. 
*Political” and “spiritual’’ were not only not 
‘mutually exclusive. They were mutually 
interilluminating, as interdependent as the 
life-support system. The Liferaft experience 
was a continuum, a sliding wave-length 
tween the two conceptual extremes. 
; 
HKEEH 
In case 
there’s some question 
what 
Liferaft Earth 
was about, 
it was about 
this 
became clear that most spectators didn’t know 
— 
Eto go outside the wall and talk to people. Some 
can’t get through to people over the wall, you 
| 
[photo: Oxfam] 
EARTH 
Tom Law and Reno led the yoga breathing exer- 
cises. 
It meant alot to do something with the 
body that was growth, not further shrinkage. We 
were doing something in unison, and that meant 
a lot. 
On Sunday, the crew built a swimming 
pool and we spend the day lounging in 
the sun at our microcosmic 
Country 
Club, 
The following day remained cold and 
cloudy and the crew kept warm with 
football, frisbee, flying kites, darts, and 
yoga, 
5 
We also tried a Hog Farm special- 
ty, the Gong-Bong, A-group of people 
get-in a circle,’ hold hands ti¢htly, then 
squatting, breathe deeply 14 times,Slow- 
ly stand up, raise your arms, holding the 
last breath. Then let out any sound that 
your lungs make, It’s a very strange 
high, I fell to my knees dizzy, the dude 
next to me passed out, 
Then, gong-bonged, we stayed in the circle and 
the microphone was passed around for each person 
to say who he was and why he was on the Liferaft. 
Wavey’s right: this should happen at every event 
where people are staying together. What people 
said was strong clear stuff. By the time the mike 
came around | had to talk through a considerable 
lump in my throat. 
By the second night crew members were 
asking other crew members for permission 
to leave the raft, keep the fast on the out- 
side, and then return. By this time we had 
evolved a method of decision making: we 
would make no decision about future policy. 
Leave if you want and ask for permission to 
re-enter when you get back. In practice, 
people left and came back without much 
trouble. Maybe five, give or take a few. 
But there. was a growing group feeling that 
people should not leave and then return 
because it was becoming clear that the diffi- 
culty was not only fasting but staying in this 
often insane place with the same. people. 
(Most of us had not known each other before. 
We ranged from age 16 to 52, from scout- 
master to beyond description.) What it came 
down to was, if you felt people shouldn't 
leave, you didn’t leave. 
We were not in a beautiful spot. We sat, 
walked and slept on concrete. Longing for 
trees. Calvino talked about organic gardening. 
Maybe we could bring some earth into the raft. 
At least the sky was there, if you lay back. 
Hayward was the kind of place you get mar- 
ooned in while hitchiking. Cars slow down 
just to look at you, never to stop. But as 
far as the ecological consciousness of Liferaft— 
it was perfect. A hungry crowded concrete 
future. And the people could step right up and 
see it, for free, It was also good for us, to be 
out there in the middle of parking lot shopping 
center america, talking to people far from hi, 
ghettos. It was intensified by that empty 
spaced-out lighter than air feeling of hunger. 
And it was funny, how many of them were 
impressed by our not eating. We were Fools 
but we were doing something that was beyond 
them. Some heads got opened. Not making 
a big serious deal of fasting was our best 
Fool’s way. We gave the microphone to 
somebody Fanine kane ahamburger. Spectators— 
a few—wanted to know what they could give 
us. Since food was out there wasn’t much. 
Some of us struggled through Ehrlich’s 
“Population Bomb”’, to know what we were 
talking about. (It was hard to read after the 
second day; eyes kept slipping off the page.) 
HEKEE 
Rain clouds on Tuesday. We inflated our 
common shelter—a smaller version of the 
original space-egg. A warm drowsy secure 
nest. But it was called a fire hazard, even 
though it was raining. Soon we had a shanty 
town of scrounged plastic and wood lean-tos. 
Private property. The common one-sky-one- 
roof feeling disappeared. Small groups invisible 
behind their plastic. No longer could you 
spend time just drifting around the parking 
lot, bumping into people, picking up on 
what was happening. 
Originally, this ‘‘Hunger Show’? was 
scheduled for a nice grassy place some- 
where in San Francisco, But with city 
officials uptight and no one willing to 
offer enough space, we’ve ended up in 
an asphalt parking lot inHayward, thanks 
to Hayward’s 
Poverty Director, 
Bill 
Goetz, 
Bill is une of those rare people who 
can work in and out of both sides of 
the social spectrum, Fully aware of the 
problems we’re faced with, yet with the 
ability to solve some of those prob- 
lems by dirtying his hands with govern- 
ment agencies, 
So on second thought this parking lot 
in Hayward, stereotype suburbia, couldn’t 
be more appropriate for this ecology 
protest called *‘Liferaft Earth,” 
Liferaft Earth 
Whole Systems 
