ra 
© Audel Guides 
I’ve just read a dozen or so Audel Guides, and these are 
some | felt were particularly useful. Some of the Audel 
books are quite obsolete, but much to my surprise, many 
have been written within the last ten years. Several have 
poor indexes, and some completely lack an index. The 
‘books are usually written by experts in the areas or 
trades described. 
The information in general seems to be 
very good. 
_/f you are working with more or less typical American 
water and sewage systems, either maintaining or building, 
Domestic Water Supply and Sewage Disposal Guide shou/d 
_ be a rather useful book. 
Wells, springs, tanks, pumps 
(including hydraulic rams!), treatment, septic tanks, water 
heaters, it’s all here, including many. useful tables. 
The book is weak on the sewage end and has incomplete 
information on things such as hahd dug, jetted and driven 
wells. Get the WHO book for that. 
Vol. | of Masons and Builders Guide dea/s with clays, 
- 
brick making, mortar, tools, brick laying, bonding, 
corners and rectangular openings. 
Vol. |! covers arches 
and anchors, foundations, chimneys, fireplaces, repairs, 
estimation, and tile work. 
These seem very good if you want to get into traditional 
brick work. The chapters on fireplaces and chimneys 
seem particularly useful to me. | never could get behind 
brick work for new construction, though. 
Carpentry and Building fascinated me. Written in question 
and answer style, it covers many problems encountered in 
construction and remodeling work. Seems that these are 
questions that the author has.received while acting as an 
engineering consultant for a trades magazine. Excellent 
sections on insulation and vapor barriers, acoustics, noise 
_ transmission and sound resistant partitions, and a beautiful 
_ miscellaneous section dealing with things like the pressures 
in grain bins. Good index. 
Building Maintenance /s intended for maintenance men in 
office etc. buildings. Looks-like it would be very good for 
them, less useful for the home handyman. Information is 
_ included on painting, plumbing, concrete, carpentry, roof- 
ing, glazing, sheet metal, heating and air conditioning. 
Gives good, brief, and simple directions 
and assumes 
that the reader has at least some sense and native intelligence. 
No special knowledge is required to use the two-volume set, 
Do-It-Yourself Encyclopedia. /f you can get around the. 
projects (!!) in questionable style (style?), there is a lot of 
good stuff relating to home improvement and home main- 
tenance. A little hard to find your way around in until 
the second time through, it is actually fairly well organized. 
Far-out 1950's pictures. 
Z 
Reviewed by Fred 
Screw Appreciation 
3 
You will see by my enclosure that the subject of this letter is screws. 
- Since this is probably too commonplace a title to attract much at- 
tention lets call them fastening devices. This particular device is a 
combination of so many improvements on the standard wood screw 
that |’ll be surprised if someone else hasn't brought it to your atten- 
tion. In case no one has, here goes. 
it's 
aSheet Rock Screw. They are made to attach sheet rock to metal 
studs. They are designed to be driven with a power screw gun. They 
can be driven by hand, of course, and in fact are easier to drive than 
‘ordinary screws. 
{deally, however, one should use a good quality var- 
_jable speed and reversable drill. In the hands of the woodworker the 
- applications are unlimited. 
> 
To appreciate the screw, one must break it down to its components; 
1. It has a self tap point. No awl is required to mark the location 
and keep it there. 
It zips into wood or thin metal. 
OOM: 
DONT 
Domestic Water Supply and 
Sewage Disposal 
Guide 
Edwin P. Anderson 
Feceeile! and Building 
| 
1960; 440 pp. 
Harry F. 
Ulrey 
1966; 434 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
Masons and Builders Guide, 
$5.95 postosid ¢ 
Vols. I, II, 
Building Maintenance 
Frank D. Graham 
1924; approx. 300 pp. each 
$5.95 
each, postpaid + or 
$12.95 for the set 
Do-It-Yourself Encyclopedia 
(2 vols.) 
1968; 1012 pp. 
$1 3.50 /set, postpaid 
from: 
Theodore Audel & Co. 
A Division-of Bobbs-Merrill 
4300 West 62nd Street 
Indianapolis, Indiana 46268 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
ww 
Jules Oravetz, Sr. 
1966; 437 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid + 
Expert foresters . 
. 
. advise that, although the hickory is a sturdy 
and persistent grower, a tree which has grown and matured under 
forest conditions cannot tolerate a disturbance of its root system; 
also, there may be danger of injuring the tree described if the roots 
are cut closer than approximately 25 feet along one side. Normally, 
from.a circle immediately outside the crown, the main feeder roots 
extend outward and downward at an angle of approximately 45 
degrees, and sometimes these roots go very deep. In addition, a 
system of very shallow roots, approximately 12 to 24 inches 
beneath the surface of the ground, extends outward in all direc- 
tions. These roots also carry water to the trunk of the tree, and 
serve to anchor the tree upright in the soil. These are the roots 
that will be injured by digging for the foundations of the house. 
Actually, there is no way to accurately foretell the reaction of 
the trees. Stay away from the trees as far as possible. The dis- 
turbed trees should be supplied with plenty of water and heavy 
feedings of fertilizer for some time to enable them to regain the 
loss of strength occasioned by disturbing the roots in the affected 
areas of the root system. 
Carpentry and Building 
2. There are two threads. The hi thread is at 30 degrees instead of 
the normal 60 for faster penetration. The lo thread reduces wobble 
and provides lateral pressure. 
3. The shank is reduced in size giving greater thread exposure and 
gripping power. 
|’m told that it holds better alone than the same 
number of regular screws and glue. My experience with therm seems 
to verify this, but | can’t prove it. The narrow shank also eliminates 
the need to pre-drill in all but the hardest woods and thicker metal. 
There are minimum splitting problems. 
4. The finish is an attractive gray created by a zinc phosphate coat- 
ing with baked-on linseed oil. !t is supposed to be corrosion resistant. 
5. The head is a patented shape called ‘‘Bugle’’ head. For the wood- 
worker, the advantage is no countersinking. 
It pulls down flush with 
little or no surface damage. 
6. The slot is a #2 Phillips, the advantages of which are well known. 
The pros use magnetic bits and don’t even hold the screw to guide it 
as it's being started. The steel they are made of is so tough it’s almost 
impossible to damage even the appearance of the slot with a spinning 
power bit. 
7. Since the awl, drill and countersink have been eliminated, the 
speed in driving with power or by hand is obvious. They are equally 
easy to extract if you make a mistake, want to disassemble your work 
and/or salvage the screws. 
|f the above sounds like the manufacturer's sales pitch, it is. | copied 
most of it from the specifications, omitting the many other advantages 
that are probably only of interest to the sheet rock people. They are 
made by U.S. Gypsum Company, 101 S. Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 
60606. They come in various lengths and styles. There are variations 
for plastic, trim, sheet rock to wood, and a plain point for wood only, 
to mention a few. 
After using them, their superiority is so apparent that one feels cheated 
if he has to use the old kind again. If all this is so, why isn’t everybody 
using them? Why can't you buy them in the neighborhood hardware 
store? | don’t really know. Anyway, | get mine at a building materials 
supply house that specializes in sheet rock, lath and plastering supplies, 
etc. They cost between $8.00 and $22.00 per thousand. 
| don’t re- 
commend them for the novice or occasional do-it-yourselfer. But for 
the guy who is “always building one thing or another’’ they are fabulous 
and worth obtaining. Instead of being the specialized fastening device 
they were designed to be, they are damn near universal. The only place 
| would hesitate to use them would be on a job where shear was impor- 
tant, such as a gate hinge. 
Fred Barrett 
Portland, Oregon 
’ Water Dowsing.— Although numerous persons consider the forked 
stick method of locating underground water as a mere ‘‘fanciful 
illusion” the fact still remains that extractable water has been 
found by this simple method throughout the ages. 
Water dowsing consists essentially of the carrying of a forked twig 
of peach, apple, or maple over the area where the search for water 
is to be made. The process is performed essentially as follows: 
Grasp the ends of the twig (one in each hand) with palms upward. 
When commencing to walk, the butt of the stick should be pointed 
upward. As moving water is approached, the butt end of the stick 
begins to dip downward until the moving water is intercepted at 
which location the butt end points straight down. At this 
particular time the forked twig has turned through an arc of 
180 degrees. The stick will in some instances break under the 
grip as the butt dips downward. Pliable twigs will bend down 
despite the effort to hold them straight. 
Most dowsers believe this unique ability or power comes to a 
person with birth. They also believe that this occult faculty can 
be developed and its use expanded by constant study and practice. 
It is, of course, a fact that many people have this ability without 
knowing it, never having had the reason for the experiment. Some 
students of the matter believe about one person in a thousand 
has some dowsing ability, although perhaps only about ten per 
cent of these latter have the ability to become good dowsers. 
It cannot be too strongly emphasized that no scientific explanation 
exists for the location of extractable underground water by means 
of dowsing. The proof exists however, in thousands of usable wells 
which actually have been discovered by this uncanny method. 
Domestic Water Supply 
A well designed and properly installed damper is regarded as 
essential, particularly in cgld climates. When no damper is 
used the throat opening J, should be 4 inches for fireplaces not 
exceeding 4 feet in height. 
Placing the throat well forward has another advantage, namely 
that of forming a smoke shelf at the damper level. This shelf 
“aids in stopping the down drafts which will almost invariably 
occur if the back of the fireplace be made to rise vertically,in 
the same plane as the back of the flue. 
The opening above the smoke shelf should be ‘’gathered” or 
contracted to the size of the flue by corbelling, this being done 
with the least height practicable. Up to the level of the clay 
flue lining, the brickwork should not be less than 8 inches 
thick, because the space immediately above the damper is 
the hottest place of the chimney. 
In small fireplaces, a depth of .12 inches will permit good draft 
if the throat be properly constructed, but-a minimum depth of 
16 to 18 inches is advised to lessen the danger of brands falling 
out on the floor. 
In construction of a fireplace the following essentials should be 
attained. They are: 
1. That the flue have the proper area. 
. That the throat be correctly designed and have a suitable damper. 
2 
3. That the chimney be high enough for good draft. 
4 . That the shape of the fireplace be such as to direct the maximum 
amount of radiated heat into the room. 
5. That a properly constructed smoke chamber be provided. 
Masons & Builders Guide 
WHEN THE TIME CAME 
When the time did-come, the Greek did not delay. He put the 
items he’d used in the food ritual back in the leather bag, and 
carried it and the jug of water to the bus, D.R. following behind. 
D.R. started to get in the back where Estelle lay sleeping, but the 
Greek directed him to sit in front with him. .D.R. obeyed, although 
he was. uncomfortable in the front. He was close to true distress 
now. He was confused because he didn’t know how stoned he 
was; he didn’t know how far to trust his mind’s version of things. 
He felt a little afraid of the Greek now, but he didn’t know if 
that was just paranoia or his straight mind picking up real warnings 
from actual stimuli. He very definitely felt threatened, but he 
could not be sure what by, and that made the moment seem more 
sinister than ever. His mind was very neatly divided in two. Half 
of it was clear and half of it was muddy, but it was hard to keep 
up with which side was which because both sides claimed to be 
clear, and each denied that it was muddy. The sense was that of 
being surrounded and infiltrated by enemies, within and without. 
But the enemies were all unseen, and the clear half of his mind 
understood that very likely he was imagining the whole thing. 
If Estelle had been awake she would have cooled D.R. in an 
instant. She would have seen that he was feeling freaky, and told 
him it was okay, to go ahead and feel freaky, that she would re- 
main there before him as a living, concrete presence in a weird 
and abstract world. But Estelle was asleep and the sound of Urge’s 
motor didn’t disturb her. D.R. didn’t learn until later that Estelle 
had dosed herself heavily on downers, but just looking he could 
tell that her sleep was very deep, that that was only Estelle’s 
body lying there, that her life and soul and spirit were somewhere 
far away, and unavailable to him. D.R. felt a powerful urge to 
go to her, though for whose sake, his or her's, he wasn’t sure. 
But 
everytime he so much as glanced back at Estelle the Greek looked 
at him out of the corner of his eye in a strangely intimidating way, 
and froze D.R. in his seat. 
Building 
Shelter 
vi 
a 
ce
ee
