j A slick good education 
_ magazine. | can see 
that running a soft 
} 
magazine in the hard- 
i poll education media 
_ market is difficult, but 
Frank McL aughlin is we all 
right. 
; 
_SB 
_ Media and Methods 
_ 
Frank McLaughlin, ed. 
$9.00 /yr. (nine issues) 
~ $11.00 in Canada 
A Handy List of 16mm Distributors 
Suitable for Framing 
Audio Film Center, 34 MacQuesten 
Pkwy. So., Mt. Vernon, N.Y. 10550 
Brandon Films, 221 West 57th Street, 
New York, New York 10019 
Contemporary Films, (McGraw Hill/ 
"from: 
_ Media & Methods 
| Say North 13th Street 
town, NJ 08520 
Films Inc., 4420 Oakton Street, Skokie, 
Illinois 60076 
i 
, 
Janus Films, 24 West 58th Street, New 
York, NY 10019 
Ky 
Universal 16, 221 Park Avenue South, 
i 
> 
New York, NY 10003 
NY 10036 
| The Metaphorical Way of Learning & Knowing 
It’s very hard to-‘understand, after reading this book, why 
“everyone isn’t Doing It. -Synectics Education Systems has 
_workbooks for use in schools, and if the examples in this 
| book are indicative, they are pretty far into the business of 
| blowing (creating) minds. 
This one book is enough to keep 
an adult excited for hours, and the implications for using 
these trips with children are wonderful. 
For trips they 
| are —— based on a very sound and well-developed theory of 
| learning, they playfully seduce one into forgetting the old 
| rules, and one finds oneself sitting there mind-blown, 
| consciousness-expanded, and high. 
[Reviewed by Diana Shugart. 
Suggested by Linda Williams] 
\ 
es 
Bhiso check out Gorden ‘s original Synectics, on p. 236. 
q 4 
a 
The Metaphorical Way 
| of Learning and Knowing 
1 W.J.J. Gordon, et al. 
| 1966-1971; 263 pp. 
| 
$5. 
50 postpaid 
= 
Synectics Education Systems 
121 Brattle Street 
Cambridge, Mass. 02138 
= 
THEE 
METAPHORICAL 
WAY of Learning 
& Knowing - 
In WA GORDON 
“A Schools Booklist 
4 
| Brothers, 
= 
enclosed is a book list for all interested in open, free, 
anarchic, holistic education——as well as behavior change 
‘technology that-works. Those marked are anecdotal, 
, 
‘practical, and excellent guides to both the problems of 
| cranky schools and communes. 
The Peckham Experiment, 
| Pearse & Crocker, was probably the answer to it all. 
| GREEN VALLEY SCHOOL RECOMMENDED READING LIST 
*Ashton-Warner, S., Teacher, Simon and Schuster, New York, 1963 
Astrup, C., Pavlovian Psychiatry, Charles Thomas, Springfield, 
HMlinois, 1965 
: 
Bs 
E., Homer Lane and the Little Commonwealth, 
Schocken, New York, 1969 
| Beck, J., How to Raise a Brighter Child, Simon and Schuster, 
| 
New York, 1967 
Burn, M., Mr. Lyward’s Answer, Hamish Hamilton, London, 1956 
| Chall, J., Learning to Read, Grolier, New York, 1967 
: Coleman, M., Adolescents and the Schools, Basic Books, New 
York, 1965 
j 
Dennison, G., Lives of Children, Pantheon, New York, 1969 
'Engleman, S. & T., Give Your Child a Superior Mind, Simon & 
_ Schuster, 1966 
‘Franks, C., Conditioning Techniques, Springer Publications, 
New York, 1964" 
; 
Dignity of Youth and Other Atavisms, Beacon, Boston, 1965 
‘George, W., The Junior Republic, D. Appleton & Company, New 
York, 
1909 
Ginnot, H., Between Parent and Child, Macmillan, New York, 1965 
offman, Bi 
, Asylums, ‘Doubleday, Garden City, New York, 1961 
oodman, P., Growing Up Absurd, Random House, New York 
Compulsory Miseducation 
Utopian Essays 
Community of Scholars 
‘Hemming, J., Teach Them to Live, Longmans, Gram & Company, 
London, 1952 
Holmes, G., The Idiot Teacher, Faber and Faber, London, 1952 
It, J. | How Children Fail, Pitman, New York, 1964 
How Children Learn 
The Underachieving School 
menasworth and IIlingsworth, Lessons from Childhood, Livingston, 
' London, 1966 
Jones, H., Reluctant Rebels, Tavistock, London, 1960 
alae ‘The Open Classroom, New York Review, New York, 1969 
Contemporary), Princeton Road, Hights- 
UA/16, 729 Seventh Avenue, New York, 
ligand Ames, School Readiness, Holt and Rinehart, New York, 1965 
Jotz, S., .Guide to Modern Medical Care, Scribners, New York, 1965 
“The mood of students involved in simulation games is intense, 
~ purposeful and humorless, an all too perfect imitation of the real 
world atmosphere . 
. 
. In this way the simulation game seems more 
of an initiation rite than an educational experience.” 
Many different kinds of dramas are available: adventure, detective, 
western, spy, science-fiction, horror, mystery, soap opera, almost 
anything. With a series like Gunsmoke, The Lone Ranger, Have 
Gun, Will Travel, you can again stay within the students’ knowledge. 
Shifting to the less familiar, you should find Mercury Theater, I 
Love a Mystery, X Minus One, Suspense, Lights Out and The 
Whistler of interest to any group. 
Program Sources 
- The Longines Symphonette Society, Symphonette Square, 
Larchmont, N.Y. 10538. 
Great Radio Shows, Inc., Box 254, Woodinville, Washington 
98072. 
Radio Yesteryear, Box H, Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y..10502. 
Wayne Field, R.F.D. #1, Meridian, Idaho 83642. Mr. Field has 
a large collection of shows and is willing to tape them on your 
blank tapes. 
His charge is another tape that you send along. 
In 
other words, send him two tapes; he records and returns one 
and keeps the other as payment. 
= 
PON 
Zero for Conduct, (Brandon) 
$32.50. (Dir: Jean Vigo) An 
innovative, poetic and surrealistic evocation of youth and its 
rebellion against the system. 
Village of the Damned, (Films, Inc.) $22.00. (Dir: Wolf Rilla) An 
eerie tale about a group of super-intelligent and hyper-bizarre blond 
children who freak a peaceful English village. A simple horror story 
- or a significant allegory, depending on your mood. 
Most learning situations involving substantive material call for 
Making the Strange Familiar, whereas most situations that require 
innovation, as in problem-solving, demand Making the Familiar 
Strange. When the objective is to digest new substantive material, a 
student's learning can be inhibited by metaphors that introduce 
too much conceptual distance between him and the subject matter. 
However, when the student‘s objective, in language arts for instance, 
is to produce innovative and imaginative material; then the more 
distance he can introduce, the better. 
See Epilog, 
© 
pages 722-723 
BE THE THING. Imagine that you are a great rock. You are afraid 
of nothing. You are so strong that the wind and rain can’t even 
scratch you, although during thousands of years they have worn 
away lesser rocks. 
However, one day, toward winter, a harmless 
drop of water trickles its way deep into one of the cracks with 
which you were born. Having withstood the onslaught of floods, 
and hurricanes through the ages, what is your attitude toward this 
tiny drop of water? Oh, you tickle! You can’t hurt me though. 
I’m much stronger than you. 
You can stay there if you don’t tickle 
me anymore. 
It might be nice to have company. Are you sure I 
won't hurt you? 
From what you just wrote, pick the ONE word that compresses al! 
your feelings toward the drop of water. Write it here: strength. 
That night the temperature falls below 32°. The drop of water 
freezes. 
In freezing, it expands and hurts you. Nothing before in 
your life has been able to even mark you. How do you feel as the 
drop of water expands and cracks you in two? 
Write a short story about the tiny drop of water defeating you, a 
great rock. 
Teaching the Unteachable 
36 Children 
Koerner, J., The Miseducation of American Teachers, Pelican, 
New York, 1965 
Kozol, J., Death at an Early Age; Bantam, New York, 1968 
Krumholz and Thorensen, Behavioral Counseling: Cases and 
Techniques, Holt, Rinehart, and Winston, New York 1969 
*Lane, H., Talks to Parents and Teachers, Schocken, New York 1969 
London, P., Behavioral Counseling 
London, P., Behavior Control, Harper and Row, 1969 
Modes and Morals in Psychotherapy, Holt, Rinehart, and 
Winston, New York, 1964 
MacKenzie, R., The Sins of the Children, 
Escape from the Children, 1965 
A Question of Living, 1963 
Collins, London, 1965 
*Neill, A.S., Summerhill: A Radical Approach to Child Rearing, Hart, 
New York, 1960 
Freedom, Not License 
*Makarenko, A., Road to Life, Foreign Language Publications, 
Moscow, 1951 
A Book for Parents, 1954 
- Learning to Live, 1953 
“Pearse and Crocker, The Peckham Experiment, Allen and Unwin, 
London, 1947 
Richardson, E., In the Early World, Pantheon, 1969 
Salter, A., Gonditoned Reflex Therapy, Capricorn, New York, 1961 
Scrimshaw and Gordon, 
Malnutrition, Learning and Behavior, MIT, 
Cambridge, 1968 
pple O., Discipline without Punishment, Faber and Faber, London, 
962 
Friedenberg, E., Coming of Age in America, Random House, New York 
Trace, A., Reading without Dick and Jane, Regnery, Chicago, 1965 
Ullman and Krasner, Case Studies in Behavior Modification, Holt, 
Rinehart, and Winston, 1965 
e 
Ullman and Krasner, A Psychological Approach to Mibaorea 
Behavior, Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey, 1969 
von Hilsheimer, Js There a Science of Behavior?, Humanitas, 
Orange City, 1967 
Watson, J. B., Behaviorism, Phoenix, Chicago, 1963 
*Wills, De Throw Away Thy Rod, Gollanz, London, 1960 
Homer Lane: A Biography, Allen and Unwin, London, 1964 
Wolpe, J., Psychotherapy By Re ciprocal Inhibition, Stanford 
University Press, 1958 
Wolpe and Renya, Behavior Therapy md Experimental Psychiatry, 
Pergamon, New York, 1969 
Wolpe and Lazarus, Behavior Therapy Techniques, Pergamon, 1966 
Wolpe, Salter, Renya, The Conditioning Therapies, Holt, Rinehart, 
and Winston, New York, 1965 
Best, 
George von Hilsheimer 
Orange City, Florida 
| 
| 
Jean Shepherd's America (Sunday night at 8 pm, beginning April 
11, on PBS) is a series of ‘‘sensual essays’’ on the feel cities in 
America have. It is not in any standard sense a documentation of 
the U.S.A., but is rather a personal odyssey of one man as he 
visits Milwaukee, Colorado Springs, Honolulu, Cheyenne, Nome, 
Hammond (Indiana) and other places. The shows will be sprin- 
kled with the wit and humor that has won Shepherd four Playboy 
Humor Writing Awards. He is also author of In God We Trust, All 
Others Pay.Cash and the man humorist Marshall McLuhan has 
called 
“‘‘one 
of our only truly electronic 
novelists.’’ 
A much 
sought-after performer on the college lecture circuit, Shepherd 
embodies in a real way Kerouac’s maxim: Travel Equals Free- 
dom. He begins his free-wheeling journey April 11. Check local 
listings for exact date and time. 
The feeling of contempt so many college 
professors feel toward high school 
teachers and high school teachers in 
turn feel toward elementary teachers is 
shot through with irony. What has 
been consistently borne out in my 
experience is that the best teaching takes 
place at the elementary level (especially 
nursery school through 3rd grade). The 
best environments-for learning are 
reflected in these ‘‘elementary” 
situations, the most natural employment 
of media are demonstrated, and the 
most humane relationship between adult 
and child exist. 
Improvisation for the Theatre 
Somewhat like The Natural Way To Draw in its fundamental 
“process approach” to acting, games and plays. 
It is also similar to 
that amazing book in that the written instructions of the tasks are 
the primary method of instruction, and that the untrained person 
may read the instructions with reasonable confidence that they are 
accurate and have been tested. 
Spolin’s book is perhaps the one most in demand by young acting 
instructors today and because of its price is much stolen from 
libraries. 
It is just as much used by children’s theatres and for 
professional training. The recent two-coast success of Story Theatre 
under the directorship of Paul Sills simply confirms the relevance of 
such training. 
(Spolin is Sills’ mother and appears on the program 
as a consultant.) 
The development of spontaneity and freedom in improvisation has 
applications far beyond the theatre or even the Esalen studies and 
psychodrama to which it has been applied. 
If you stop to think 
about it, improvisation is a necessary skill for us all... it is the way 
we all live our lives, isn’t it? There is a technique used in speech 
training that is relevant here... they teach stutterers how to stutter 
voluntarily, to simulate their own type of stutter. 
By doing this 
they find that the stutterer develops a voluntary control over the 
process. Perhaps if we all learn to improvise consciously we may 
also attain greater control over our own lives? 
Kelly Yeaton 
State College, Pa. 
Improvisation for the Theatre 
Viola Spolin 
$10.00 plus postage (2 Ibs.) 
from: Northwestern University Press 
1735 Benson 
Evanston, Illinois 60201 
£ 
4 
faa 
Ste 
Ss 
CR cee = 
YY 
SS 
BREAKFAST 
Roxie fed D.R. another big breakfast of ham and eggs while 
Leonard loaded his tools into his pickup truck. The barn they were 
going to build the hog pen onto was half a mile up the road from 
Leonard’s house there behind the store. The barn sat on two acres 
of bottom land that an in-law of Roxie’s had owned till he moved 
to Louisville two years before. The first year he was gone Leonard 
rented the barn and used it as a storehouse, and then later he bought 
it. He still used it as a storehouse, but this year Leonard decided to 
try keeping hogs up there. He had four, penned in a make-shift stall 
inside. But they were getting so big so fast they needed an outdoor 
place to be, and that was what he’d asked D.R. to help him build 
that day. 
When he got the tools loaded and the truck turned and pointed 
out the drive-way, Leonard left the motor running and went to the 
back door and asked D-R. if he was ready. 
Roxie said, “Let the boy finish eating, Leonard.” 
“I'm finished,” said D.R. ““One more biscuit and I'm ready to 
fly!" D.R. wiped the remaining egg yellow off his plate with a 
biscuit, stuffed it into his mouth, and washed it down with a drink 
of coffee as he got out of his chair. ‘‘Mighty good,” he said to 
Roxie and she smiled at him as he went out the back door after 
Leonard, who was already half-way back to his pickup. 
ao7 
School Methods 
Learning 
