Sensitivity Books 
What 
I find missing from the pages of the Catalog are tools to help 
groups work better together. Too often, I think, we simply assume 
that like-minded people can get along with each other, find con- 
structive work patterns by instinct, and so on. 
We toss arounda 
lot of words like “openness’’ and “honesty,” but the words and 
the practice are two different things. Then, six months after 
arriving on the homestead (or buying the big communal house in the 
city, or whatever), fights break out around the issue of who’s to do 
_the dishes. Some folks flare and smolder; they leave a few weeks 
later with a bucketfull of bad memories. 
Premise: we really have not learned to listen effectively, give helpful 
feedback to others about their here-and-now behavior, plan together 
fora common task, be it building a barn or living collectively. 
We 
can’t build community by good intentions alone, or by imploring 
our brothers and sisters to be “honest.” In short, we need tools. 
With that lengthy preface out of the way, I want to introduce 
sensitivity training. Before everyone starts to groan, let me make 
clear what I am not talking about. I don’t advocate all the stereo- 
typed stuff now coming out in movies and novels, the scenes where 
people are licensed to call each other no-good S.O.B.’s for a weekend. 
No freewheeling ego destruction, no confessions about horrible mis- 
deeds and terrifying anxieties. 
What I am talking about ts the more 
conservative wing of the sensitivity training movement, as represented 
by the National Training Laboratories: 
training that focuses on 
the here-and-now aspects of group behavior, leadership, communt- 
cations, and the like. 
Since the sensitivity training movement has exploded into every 
imaginable direction, and since anybody can hang out a shingle and 
“run groups,” folks interested in exploring this area should be wary 
and cautious. Even the legitimate trainers are expensive, to the tune 
of $100 a day for the best of the bunch. Fortunately, there are some 
books around that qualify as tools; here are three of the best that I 
know about: 
; 
(1) The Practice of Creativity, George M. Prince, Harper and Row, 
1970, $8.50. 
This is about Synectics, but it’s much better than 
the other Synectics book the Catalog used to list. Prince’s book 
qualifies as a true tool; there are a variety of suggestions for 
improving the creative output of small groups. 
The entire Synectics 
problem-solving process is outlined in detail, and many of its 
techniques, if consciously applied, really help in all sorts of 
situations. One example: 
the Spectrum Policy, which says that 
you're not allowed to’criticize an idea until you've said something 
positive about it. This sounds incredibly trite and artificial, I’m 
sure, but its use has drastically improved half a dozen work situations 
that I’ve been in. Even the best-intentioned people are often 
unwittingly destructive in group situations. 
(2) A Handbook of Structured Experiences for Human Relations 
Training (two volumes), J. William Pfeiffer and John E. Jones, 
University Associates Press, Box 615, Fowa City, Iowa 52240, 
1969, $3.00 each volume. 
These.are two small volumes of exercises 
in group processes. Some sample titles: “Hidden Agendas,” 
“Status-Interaction Study,” “‘Developing Group Commitment,” 
“Process Intervention Practice”. Not all of these will be helpful to 
every group, but some of the exercises have universal use. IMPORTANT" 
NOTE OF CAUTION: 
These exercises are not' toys; if they’re to be 
used, they should be used only when every member of the group 
agrees to their use. Most of the exercises are designed for use by a 
trainer in a laboratory group. 
If, say, 
a commune uses some of these, 
the person acting as trainer-should not be from that commune. 
(3) Basic Reader in Human Relations Training (in eight mimeographed 
parts), Service to Dioceses, Episcopal Church Center, 815 Second 
Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017, apparently free of charge. 
This 
series is what it says tt is, a collection of written materials on all 
phases of group processes as shown in laboratory situations. 
The 
advantage is that the editors have collected many papers on the same 
topics, so the reader has a choice of frameworks on which to hang 
his understanding. 
The set includes a good bibliography and list of 
further sources. 
For people interested in exploring further, the NTL Institute for 
Applied Behavioral Science runs labs all over the country in various 
aspects of group dynamics. 
Their address is P.O. Box 9155, Rosslyn 
Sta., VA 22209. 
Finally, a statement from George Prince, with which he closes his 
book: “The conscious practice of creativity as an everyday activity 
is particularly valuable because it permits you to rationalize, accept, 
and gradually expect miracles of yourself.” 
Go weil, 
Bob Fried 
Berkeley, California 
Love and Will 
Here’s a book to disabuse you, and you, and you of any notions 
you might have about there being anything very special in your 
sufferings; or anything terribly unique about your dilemmas 
and your fuck-ups. May describes our external and internal 
environments in their relationship to each other with a mind- 
blewirg accuracy that evokes recognition——“’Yes, that’s me, 
all right, and that’s just the way it is these days”. Far from 
being brought down, one feels embraced by a warm intel- 
ligence, and relieved that there are minds like May’s around. 
A sort of psychological ecologist, May points to the price we 
pay for every step of “social progress”, and suggests that if 
perhaps we have unwittingly but consistently thrown out 
the baby with the bath water, then maybe it’s time to find 
the hell some other way to get clean. 
[Reviewed by Diana Shugart] 
If we repress the daimonic, we shall find these powers returning to 
“sicken”’ us; whereas, if we let them stay, we shall have to struggle 
to a new level of consciousness in order to integrate them and not 
be overwhelmed by impersonal power. And (what a refreshingly 
honest motto to put up in a psychotherapist’s office!) either way will 
hurt. 
418 
Psychology 
Learning 
\ 
Psychology Today: An Introduction 
My god, they’ve done it——and I’m stunned. After spending 
more years than | care to remember dealing with this sort of 
subject matter, | expected to skim through this book, and | 
tried——for hour after hour after hour. First off, it’s the 
most fantastic visual presentation I’ve ever encountered in 
a textbook; every page is arresting and imaginative and many 
are Clearly and simply beautiful. 
It’s the first time I’ve ever 
— 
seen such consistent remembering that the subject under 
study is that of me and you and our fellows. 
This would 
surely be the book to start with for anyone interested in 
finding out what psychology is all about.. 
There are eight 
major sections, each representing a main branch of the 
field, and each being covered clearly and thoroughly. There 
are two companion volumes, the Instructor’s Guide, and — 
the student’s workbook, Involvement in Psychology Today. 
The /nstructor’s Guide lists appropriate films and suggests 
demonstrations for each section. “Involvement” is designed 
to do just that——the suggested projects are unusual and 
look like fun. There are good bibliographies here too, 
for those interested in pursuing particular subjects further, 
including a lot of wonderful books that didn’t used to be 
considered proper. 
These things about the content especially impress me: 
The 
scientific study of behavior is treated cogently so that 
anyone can learn the basics of scientific methodology. 
And this without the usual accompanying toné that only 
what’s measurable is worth studying, a tone that so pervades 
many 
textbooks that as an undergraduate | despaired of 
learning anything interesting or meaningful about human 
beings. 
This stuff really turned me on to human behavior 
and the study of it. The sections on drugs and craziness 
are also impressive in that the subjects are tackled head-on; 
there’s no evasiveness and no apparent prejudice. 
There is 
lots of good information and, best of all, a powerful feeling 
conveyed of what it’s all about. 
The authors have clearly attempted to make this book 
super-relevant to today’s world. 
They have succeeded. 
[Reviewed by Diana Shugart] 
Developmental Psychology Today 
Again, a beautiful and stimulating book, all about growing up— and 
around, in and out, and sideways. 
All the ways we grow, how we 
get stuck and unstuck, what we need to get it together and what 
happens when we don’t. 
These CRM books really make anything 
else on these subjects taste like dry oatmeal and read like an 
abridged, unillustrated Dick & Jane. 
_ [Reviewed by Diana Shugart] 
Developmental Psychology Today 
1971; 1972; 575 pp. 
$13.95 
postpaid 
from: 
CRM Books 
511 S. Coast Highway 
Solano Beach, CA 92075 
or WHOLE EARTH 
CATALOG 
Normality 
It is customary to start with definitions, but volumes have been 
written attempting to define the concept of normality— with very 
little success. 
Using any criteria, there is no such thing as a person 
who is totally normal in all respects and at all times, nor is anyone 
totally abnormal. Neither is there such an entity as an ‘‘emotionally 
disturbed child.’’ Emotional disturbance is not a disease, like 
diabetes, that is either present or absent in a given individual. 
In 
current usage, “emotional disturbance” is an umbrella term that 
covers all degrees of behavioral problems in four major categories: 
antisocial aggressiveness, overwhelming fears, failures in learning, 
and infantile habits: 
® 
Love and Will 
LOVE 
Rollo May 
AND 
1969; 352 
WI LL 
$1.75 postpaid 
a 
from: 
ROLLO MAY 
a 
ALITHO# OF 
MAN'S SEARCH LOH HIMS(tT 
W. W. Norton & Company, Inc. 
500 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10036 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Just as the individual is feeling powerless and plagued with sel 
f- 
doubts about his own decisions, he is, at the same time, assured 
that he, modern man, can do anything. God is dead and are we 
not gods——for have we not re-enacted Genesis by splitting the 
atom in our own laboratories and over Hiroshima? Of course, we 
did it in reverse: 
God made form out of chaos and we have made 
chaos out of form, and it is a rare human being who is not, in some 
secret place in his heart, scared to death that we shall not be able 
to turn chaos into form again before it is too late. 
o 
Psychology Today: 
An Introduction 
1970; 707 pp. 
$14.95 postpaid 
from: 
CRM Books 
511 S. Coast Highway 
Solano Beach, CA 92075 
or WHOLE EARTH 
CATALOG 
Figure 7.14 
Aggression elicited by shocks may be 
displaced to a doll if another rat 
é 
is not present. 
May hypothesizes that when a culture is moving toward integration 
and unity, it has a system of symbols, myths, and values that give 
integration to the members of society, and people are then relatively 
free from psychological breakdown. 
But when a culture is in the 
process of disintegration, it loses first of all its myths and symbols, 
— 
then its system-of values that have been based on these myths. 
Subsequently, people in large numbers come to seek psychological 
help. May betieves that therapy will remain acritical part of our 
cultural scene until society discovers new myths and symbols to 
replace those we are currently losing. 
7a 
Bova 
4 
Put the personality of a child in the body of a man, furnish a need 
to be loved and a fierce desire to be independent, allow a need to 
be self-directing but leave out any idea of what direction to take, 
add an enormous amount of love but also the fear that it may not 
be accepted or returned, give physical and sexual powers without 
any knowledge or experience of how to use them— taketheseand 
place them in a.society whose values and achievements are 
essentially incomprehensible and certainly unattainable and whose 
_ 
concerns are seemingly misplaced and insincere. Then you will have 
just begun to scratch the surface of adolescence. 
: 
a: 
If will remains protest, it stays dependent on that which it is pro- 
testing against. 
Protest is half-developed will. Dependent, like the 
child on parents, it borrows its impetus from its enemy. This 
gradually empties the will of content; you always are the shadow 
of your adversary, waiting for him to move so that you can move 
yourself. Sooner or later, your will becomes hollow, and may then 
be forced back to the next line of defense. 
ca? 
This next defense is projection of blame. We find an illustration in 
every war of this unwitting confession of failure to integrate the 
 —_— 
daimonic. 
In the Vietnam war, for example, Secretary Rusk and the 
© 
Administration blamed the Viet Cong for the escalation, and the Viet 
Cong——and those in this country opposed to the war——blamed Rusk — 
and our own Administration. The self-righteous security that is 
. 
achieved by means of this blaming of the other gives onea temporary 
satisfaction. But beyond the gross oversimplification of our historical 
situation which this exhibits, we pay a more serious price for such 
security. We have tacitly given the power of decision over to our 
adversary. 
: 
Psychiatry and Social Science Review 
This publication is Free, if you keep returning the card on the back. 
One need never buy a book. No need to return. 
: 
BY 
Nanna Bollnig 
Philadelphia, Pa. 
Psychiatry and Social Science Book Club 
59 4th Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
