. 
| 
| 
Consistently the best science writing and illustrating appears 
in Scientific American. For 25¢ you can get a full color copy 
of any article. The catalog of offprints is well organized 
(some 700 to choose from). 
[Suggested by Jane Burton] 
Catalog 
free from: 
. Elwyn L. Simons 
THE EARLY RELATIVES 
W. H. Freeman & Company 
660 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
ANTHROPOLOGY 
. John Napier 
THE EVOLUTION OF THE 
HAND 
Bernard Greenberg 
FLIES AND DISEASE 
H. Bentley Glass 
THE GENETICS OF THE 
DUNKERS 
. John Napier 
THE ANTIQUITY OF HUMAN 
WALKING 
. J. M. Tanner 
EARLIER MATURATION IN 
MAN 
. Johannes Iversen 
FOREST CLEARANCE IN 
THE STONE AGE 
. Adriaan Kortlandt 
CHIMPANZEES IN THE 
WILD 
Sherwood L. Washburn 
TOOLS AND HUMAN 
EVOLUTION 
. Marshall D. Sahlins 
THE ORIGIN OF SO- 
CIETY 
. Charles F. Hockett 
THE ORIGIN OF SPEECH 
. William W. Howells 
THE DISTRIBUTION OF 
MAN 
. Robert J. Braidwood 
THE AGRICULTURAL 
REVOLUTION 
. Robert M. Adams 
THE ORIGIN OF CITIES 
. Herbert Butterfield 
THE SCIENTIFIC REVO- 
LUTION 
. Edward S. Deevey, Jr. THE HUMAN POPULA- 
TION 
. Theodosius Dobzhansky 
THE PRESENT EVO- 
LUTION OF MAN 
. Jean de Heinzelin 
ISHANGO 
. S. L. Washburn & Irven DeVore 
THE SOCIAL 
LIFE OF BABOONS 
. Colin M, Turnbull 
THE LESSON OF THE 
PYGMIES 
. Julian Huxley * WORLD POPULATION 
. William L. Langer THE BLACK DEATH 
. James Mellaart 
A NEOLITHIC CITY IN TUR- 
KEY 
OF MAN 
. Richard S, MacNeish 
THE ORIGINS OF NEW 
WORLD: CIVILIZATION 
. Riehard J. Andrew 
THE ORIGINS OF FACIAL 
EXPRESSIONS 
. D. J. Mulvaney THE PREHISTORY OF THE 
AUSTRALIAN ABORIGINE 
. William W. Howells HOMO ERECTUS 
. Wilton M. Krogman THE SCARS OF HUMAN 
EVOLUTION 
. Elwyn L. Simons THE EARLIEST APES 
i 
. Annemarie de Waal Malefijit 
HOMO MON- 
STROSUS 
. Rada & Neville Dyson-Hudson 
SUBSISTENCE 
HERDING IN UGANDA 
. Sally R. Binford & Lewis R. Binford 
STONE 
TOOLS AND HUMAN BEHAVIOR 
. Edward T. Hall, Jr. THE ANTHROPOLOGY 
OF MANNERS 
This book is an attempt to collect in one place and to explain as 
/ simply as possible a number of general principles, techniques, 
| and guides for procedure which successful investigators in various 
| fields of science have found helpful. The emphasis is entirely on 
the practical rather than the philosophical, 
or psychological aspects. 
| There is a story of an industrialist who was unable to duplicate in a 
§) 
branch factory the manufacture of a chemical in a desirable crystal 
| form. On further investigation of the process in the main plant, he 
| found it in charge of an elderly employee who had always operated 
‘it, apparently with a perfectly simple routine. Closer examination, 
however, revealed that at one stage he always injected tobacco juice 
into the vat. This was the missing step, presumably because of 
' surface active ingredients which influenced the growth habits of the 
crystais. 
2 
' The overconservative scientist will pass by the new phenomena; the 
‘overenthusiastic one will endow commonplace events with world- 
| shaking interpretations. Herein lies one good reason for under- 
) standing an apparatus and its quirks thoroughly. The momentary 
| signal on the cathode-ray screen may be worth a Nobel prize; but 
it may also be the thermostat turning on the room heat. 
Fig. 12.3 A graphical method of 
determining the area under a curve. 
~ 
The horizontal lines are drawn so that 
the areas omitted and those wrongly 
_included in each rectangle balance, as 
judged by eye. 
Libraries 
One of the things that struck me when | first encountered 
the catalog was that many of the books you have suggested or 
others have suggested are in the collection of even the tiny 
branch that | work at. ‘The point being that Americans don’t 
use or appreciate the libraries that their taxes support. A 
good strong plug for people to use the library first to find 
material (saves buying a book sight unseen and being 
disatisfied) and reference to further material and places to 
look for it would be an aid to those needing information. 
Granted one in the wilds of the backwoods has little 
opportunity to stroll down the block to his local library 
however most people still have contact once and a while with 
some sort of town. Now many states have a complete 
regional library system that allows one to borrow books from 
anywhere in the state. This process is only as slow as the 
mail and the librarian’s willingness to help. | know the 
average person’s image of librarians is of a crotchety old 
maid etc. and this | would have to agree with. But things 
are moving pretty fast back there in the stacks (how many of 
us were conceived there), there are hundreds of younger hip 
librarians and library students invading these tombs of 
learning. One thing they've found is the older librarians are 
bitchy because they are frustrated radicals from another era. 
The resistence to suggestion and criticism from the youth in 
library circles has not only been low, but the most flaming 
radical has been welcomed as an ally by older librarians. The 
concept of librarianship as custodians of books is out the 
window. The job is now getting information and IDEAS to 
the people. The smaller the branch the more the librarian is 
eager to help. One, he’s all alone and has few colleagues to 
help insulate him from the outside; two younger people don’t 
enjoy the hack work that has in the past been the librarian’s 
excuse for lack of time to service the public. 
It’s a good feeling 
when you help a person take a step closer to knowing 
himself and his world and librarians aren't insensitive to this. 
We have all the modern technology at our finger tips though 
sometimes we have to be prodded touse it. Like, why buy 
BOOKS IN PRINT when your library has it (it isn’t complete 
either; ask anyone in the publishing industry). Virtually all 
libraries are your entrance to the Library of Congress. 
Warren L. King 
Free Library of Philadelphia 
Philadelphia, PA 
If you ‘remaking a library, you might be interested in 
library materials, on p. 364. 
—SB 
BEBRB BRB RBBB RRBRBRBRERERBBRBRBBRERSRRARSSE 
An Introduction to Scientific Research 
A practical guide for the scientific experimenter, covering 
experimental planning, design of apparatus, and analysis 
and reporting of results. Basic general information applicable 
to many fields. Extensive lists of references for further 
information. 
The book is clearly written and surprisingly 
enjoyable reading. 
[Reviewed by Larry McCombs] 
An Introduction to Scientific Research 
E. Bright Wilson, Jr. 
1952; 373 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
McGraw-Hill Book Company 
Princeton Road 
Hightstown, N.J. 08520 
Manchester Road 
Manchester, Missouri 63062 
8171 Redwood Highway 
Novato, California 94947 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
A completely free rigid body has six degrees of freedom: displacement 
in three perpendicular directions and rotation about three perpendicular 
Fic, 5,13. Kinematic mounting for removable part which must be precisely located. 
Three ball feet make two contacts each with V yrooves. 
axes. 
The stool on the flat floor had only three degrees of freedom 
because its motion was restricted by three properly placed constraints, the 
three contacts of its ball feet. with the floor. 
The stool (or platform) of 
Vig. 5.13 has no degrees of freedom because its Supports make six suitable 
contacts, two for each ball foot. 
In general, a contact (or constraint) is 
needed for each degree of freedom which is to be eliminated. 
More may 
he used, as with the four-legged table, but then sag (internal strain) or 
rocking will occur unless the workmanship is very precise. 
A Concise Guide to Library Research 
In my hairiest dope-fiend days, whenever | drove past a 
library I’d experience waves of gratitude to those inside 
who were doing what | knew | could not: opening the 
library on time, keeping track of the books, patiently 
explaining again how to use the card catalog, daily 
dispensing invaluable free information, all without fan- 
fare. 
This here is a book of what’s in a library and how 
to get at it. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Craige Schensted] 
The Concise Guide to Library Research 
Grant W. Morse 
1966, 1967; 214 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
from: 
Washington Square Press, Inc. 
1 West 39th St. 
New York, N. Y. 10018 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
B238 General works and histories of science 
A Guide to the History of Science, by G. Sarton, 1952, Chronica 
Botanica Co. Includes a classified bibliography of the subject. 
A History of Technology, 5 vols., 1954—1958, Oxford. Scholarly 
and readable account of the development of technology from 
earliest time2, chro: 
ogically arranged. 
Introduction to the History of Science, by G. Sarton, 3 vols., 1927— 
1948, Williams & Wilkins. From Homer.to the fourteenth century, 
including good biographies and bibliographies. 
McGraw-Hill Encyclopedia of Science and Technology, 15 vols., 
2nd ed., 1965, and yearbooks, 1961—, McGraw-Hill. 
Very compre- 
hensive. One shduld use the index volume. 
Smithsonian Institution, 1847— (annual). U.S. Government Print- 
ing Office. Very useful and authoritative. 
Van Nostrand’s Scientific Encyclopedia, 3rd ed., 1958, Van 
Nostrand. 
ae 
ys 
a 
eG 
; 
Ce 
4 
x yu) = a 
CREDIT 
After Mrs. Godsey had sorted the mail and handed it out and 
chatted with the people a while, she told.D.R. to come with her to 
the kitchen and she would show him Barry’s article in the paper. 
D.R. followed and when she'd found the paper for him she asked 
if he wouldn’t like to sit down at the table and have a cup of coffee 
or something while he read. D.R. said he'd like that fine, and before 
long he had finished reading the article and Mrs. Godsey had joined 
him at the table with an R.C. Cola of her own. 
“That's a nice thing Barry wrote,” said D.R. 
“He's awful good at it,” said Mrs. Godsey. “Barry's wrote books 
and everything.” 
“Has he really?” 
“1 don’t think any of them’s been printed. But he’s writing one 
now that he says is sure to be printed, because he’s made arrange- 
ments with the newspaper in town to have it done.” 
“That's very far out,” said D.R. 
“It's what, honey?” 
“That's unusual. I’m impressed.” 
“Lord, honey, that Barry's a genius,” said Mrs. Godsey. “He 
used to be a house painter till he fell and paralyzed hisself. That's 
when he took up writing. He's a pure genius at it, everybody thinks 
so.” 
Mrs. Godsey took a drink of her R.C. 
“Leonard told me you quizzed him about getting credit here at 
the store,” she said. 
“Yes mam, | wanted to ask you about it.” 
“Nothing to ask,” said Mrs. Godsey. “‘Emmit had credit with 
me for years. He never missed paying a one of his bills, and | know 
you wouldn't either. You're welcome to anything in my store that 
you want.” 
“Now I appreciate that, Mrs. Godsey,” said D.R. “And I appre- 
ciate you letting me park my bus out back, too.” 
“Why, that aint nothing,” said Mrs. Godsey. 
“‘I like to look at 
it setting out there.” 
“You and Leonard have been a big help to me,” said D-R. “‘I 
feel like I’m in debt to you both.” 
“We're glad to help you, honey,” said Mrs. Godsey. “We're glad 
you're going to be with us a while. Leonard is, especially.” 
“How is Leonard?” said D.R. “I haven't seen him in a day or 
two.” 
“Well,”’ said Mrs. Godsey. “I think that old grand jury business 
has thrown him behind in his work pretty bad. He’s been to town 
ever day this week, and has to do it again next week too.” 
“| hope he comes up to see me when he gets a chance,” said D.R. 
“There's some things | need to ask his advice on.” 
“You neen to worry about Leonard coming up,” said Mrs. 
Godsey. ‘‘Use to, they wasn’t anything he liked better than to take 
off up that creek and hang around with Emmit half the day. He'll 
be up, you neen to worry.” 
D.R. got up to go then. Mrs. Godsey followed him into the 
store to help him pick out a few groceries and write them into her 
account book. D.R. bought canned things mostly, corned beef 
hash, peas, beets, turnip greens, a bag of cookies and a loaf of bread 
and some milk. Mrs. Godsey put it in a bag for him, and when they 
had bid each other good day D.R. set out walking back up Trace 
Fork again. 
Science 
Learning 
» 
