gS 
a 
ee 
|! 
Cy 
ie 
tte 
ee 
Walter Carlos on Synthesizers 
Hi— This is probably either too late to write*-you, or my own 
personal ego trip, ergo: 
of no particular value to anyone, however, 
I've gotten myself off my other projects/ass long enough to realize 
that I’ve been wanting to write all of you for a long time. Also, 
since all those cliché cats out there keep telling me I’m like the 
ultimate sage in synthesizers, electronic music, and all that confetti, 
and since you always find at least a page to devote to “synthesizers”, 
it does seem fair=right to. write, and here itis. 
If you haven't already thrown this one in that appropriate round 
recepticle provided for broken goods or boring papers and other 
worldly goods, I'll pompously introduce myself: 
| am Walter Carlos, creator of Columbia Record’s Switched-on- 
Bach, and the Well Tempered Synthesizer, currently composing 
instead of merely performing up a 3rd & 4th album for Columbia 
(since | was always s’posed to be a composer all along and those 
two records are more or less “‘learning territories’) 
. The next will 
probably be titled The View Inside, but I'm not looking for plugs 
or promos. 
Actually, | know of no good lit. on electronic music, and I’ve been 
stuck in it for at leasta dozen years. And that’s the problem. You 
see, I'd kinda like to turn you on to some good text or paperback 
on the subject, but, frankly (and excluding only the short-lived 
Electronic Music Review, which had many shortcomings) they all 
stink 
, are axe-grinding with a vengeance (like the latest stuffy, 
fadist & sure-to-be-successful periodical Synthesis) and are few- 
to-the-point of extinction. 
Granted, I’m.as prejudiced as anyone can be— 
| make my life in 
the field— but hell, I’ve tried all the currently available synthesizers, 
and none of them matches a decent Steinway or Baldwin when it 
comes to subtlety. Sure, they've all got their own set of gimmicks, 
but really— that ain’t where music’s at. What about nuancé, 
phrasing, or that particular gripe of mine: control? 
Most of the 
“magic boxes’’ purport to simplify electronic music. The ghastly 
thing is that they, as a group, all do — simplify to the point of an 
imbecilic device which is happy to engage in cranking-out a totally 
unpredictable series of musical ‘‘notes’’, sounds, ‘‘exciting textures’, 
whatever— what a lot of bunk. After my first record gained all 
its ‘fame’ everyone was out there, hustling to either buy a Moog 
(pronouncing it like a cow, to this day, despite the numerous 
printed corrections |’ve only casually spotted) or to build.a 
“better synthesizer” & cut into this, quote: 
rapidly growing 
field, Unquote. The former hyped-up a bunch of fantastically dull 
records, too eager to get out de produk’, instead of payin’ a little 
dues, the latter glutted the market with that dusty heap of clatter 
machines & wonder toys that even W.E.C. advertizes. 
Unless ‘’Music for Non-thinkers” (thank you, RCA Victor), is 
your bag, it seems that warnings rather than plugs & puffs is the 
zall of the day. Sure, the pianola is lots of fun at the right party, 
out Nancarrow notwithstanding, it might be healthier if we hada 
little less, not more activity in E.M., at least for a period long 
enough to let the smoke screens either vaporize or settle down into 
a uniform dust film over all of musicland, ecology be damned! 
The Synthesizers 
ARP’s range from $1295 to $20,000 for complete 
system, with good owners manuals and instruction 
book. Easy to redesign/adapt. Write to: 
ARP Instruments Inc. 
320 Needham St. 
Newton, MA 02164 
Pcs 
oo A tN bbl 
kddbddbbddh 
bth ihlahsh = 
As. saan’ 
330 
Electronic Synthesizers 
Communications 
Enough sour grapes. Of course none of my outrage is printable or 
ought be. You could certainly “preach the good word: 
(5 letters, 
first is “’T’’) “Better than! in your beautiful ‘‘Bible-for-a-new- 
day” (thank God even as the Bible ceased publication at some 
point you choose to stop prior (by at least a margin of 5 yrs. 
to atrophy-of-purpose settling in on yet another “groovy mag”) 
(remember Mad— the old ones, still in comic-book form—?) 
~ 
Look, no real damage is going to come from a few sales of Moog, 
Buchla, and Tonus synthesizers. Most of the “‘mini’”’ versions are 
simply cash-in-on ignorance rip-offs, including the Mini-Moog 
(choke) and the Muse, and the Putney, (I've tried these toys, too) 
although maybe these do serve a purpose, to groups as “‘local 
color” items of the right fashionable kind. | still use a Moog. 
Its grown since S-OB, and is basically bastardized to the extent 
that, unlike the products for sale, it is a crude but viable musical 
instrument. 
Tonus will get there too, if they shake off the 
cancer of advisory committees (formal or informal) which threaten 
to turn their machines into versatile musical automatons (“Sing 
Along with Hal,” anyone?). Buchla is great for a certain limited 
but beautiful ambience-oriented E.M. and Moog, in all standard 
packaging, is workable, nasty to keep in tune (unlike Tonus) and 
ready for the right non-standard modifications if you're interested 
and have the time & the bread to personalize same (ditto for 
Tonus). 
And, in the final analysis, it is time and bread that enable any 
music to come out of these ‘‘instruments’’. A multi track machine 
(pref: 8-track or more) is, in all truth, essential,. The would-be 
synthesist had better invest in a good mixing console (size not too 
important, quality is ), I've used a home-made, ‘’10-in’’, stereo 
Out one for many years, only now have | scraped up the bread for 
an all-dolby, ‘18 in”, ‘6 out’’ quadraphonic version & 16-track 
3M to go with it. This E.M. business can be idiotically expensive. 
(But 24-track machines still sound to me like a put-on). (Might 
be good to put a Dolby-ad along with the synthesizer pix. Even 
the small home “‘type-B’’ made by Advent will keep hiss down to 
at least tolerable levels.) 
Both my old console & the new Biggy 
used spectra sonic active components— they’re in Ogden, Utah, 
if you're interested. 
; Also, if you can find the space, | think it might be ultimately 
best to list a few books on audio, acuostics,electronic organs, (even), 
and perhaps speech & so-called ‘‘visible-speech’’. 
.1'm copping-out on 
you, since | honestly don't have the time to look up titles— so 
send me no $, 1 insist. The point is, the very word “Synthesizer” 
(which is otherwise full of unfortunate connotations) suggests, a 
fertile investigation of the whole world of sound— 
like: why does a 
trumpet sound like a trumpet & not.a clarinet or a violin, etc. 
All 
| can tell you is this kind of knowledge, more than any particular 
hardware, is what enables me to obtain the sounds that | do. 
Oh, a piece of philosophy here. Many people suggest to me that | 
constantly “limit myself to imitating real. (sic) instruments’. They 
say it is freer to invent ‘‘new, never-before-heard sounds”. 
Bull shit. 
The easiest to obtain sounds (3 or 4 patch cords on the Moog, for 
ex.) are all those dreary ‘‘new’’ sounds. 
I've rarely tried to actually 
“imitate” traditional musical instruments— 
|'ve always used them as 
a point of departure & then veered off into subtlely different areas. 
It’s almost more fun to invent a new woodwind sound; one which 
Moogs range from 
$3500 to. $8000 
Write to: 
R.A. Moog Co. 
Trumansburg, N.Y. 
The January issue of a new quarterly entitled Synthesis will have articles 
on the five major synthesizers. 
| 
is, say, as flexible & musical as an oboe, but better, at least in 
context, for what you are doing at that moment. And these, be 
they obtained on Moog, Tonus, or whatever, are the very tedious, 
time-consuming many-interconnection-types of sounds that lead 
to my own bag (although to the average ear, they may be reinter- 
preted as ‘‘sounding-like’”’. 
. .a jet plane? a trombone? an electric 
motor? ‘Gee, that Picasso paints weird ‘flowers’, don’t he?” 
ne a
a 
Ah well, ya can’t work in a field and not get highly (or lowly) 
opinionated & | have contracted the disease, doctor, and right 
now it hurts to see charlatans show off how many suckers (gee 
that word sounds up.to date again) are born every 60 sec. 
But, guess it’s safe to say that although music performs no true 
basic function, to wit: 
It don’t plow the fields, it don’t build 
i
shelter, weave clothing, but it does sooth the human mind at times, 
\
and during sex—_ enough, it shall endure, and no doubt not without 
4
some electrical or electronical assist, so, E.M., be it virus or anti- 
|
biotic, looks like it has sneaked-in the life bldg. door marked 
“viva la’’ and thus my rapping here now, taking up your time & 
totally ruining my dreams to obtain the worst-letter-writer award 
for another year. But it’s all your fault, you'’re the ones with the 
irresistable threat of “‘last call’, last issue, or whatever, and since 
|
so many “‘blame’’ me & my big SOB for getting up all this E.M. 
}
interest | feel like it’s only fair that | con you, at this zero (18th?) 
hour, to put aside a square inch or two of your valuable 500+ 
pages in service of this 4th or 5th order cause. 
i
TELL THEM: That none of the existing hardware really does the 
job. Tell them that they should expect to get more than casually 
i
involved with the thinks behind schematic diagrams, those dumb 
cylindrical-bored valved up clarinet & flute & on why the gods 
decreed that medium-bright sounds with high energy content 
around 5KC (| refuse Khz,next thing rpm will be called, like 
33 1/3 edisons, or eds for short; 15 ips will get 15 magnetophons 
or mags, for short, humbug!) should sound louder to humans but 
be more aurally fatiguing, and that they might prepare themselves 
| 
to.dissect any given musical phrase & figure out how to play only 
| 
certain groups of the notes at a time, over & over into a sel-sync 
\ 
| 
Ampex or 3M (\f this be eden) so that the final mix-down sounds 
phrased & shaped with lots of timbral vibrations & tactile organic 
electronicism, despite (oh shit) the preparation of many hours 
for a. mere handful of seconds of music (sure kills all the magic, | 
think) but that in E.M. as all art, the quickest short cut is a short 
circuit to: short on ideas but oh my long on wind (those monsters 
don‘t have to stop to breathe, remember?) music, be it on record or 
on stage. Of course on stage you could get away with less. 
Probably have to, but if some cat & chick pluck down several of 
those government issued rubber bands you'd better give them 
something more than surface 
, unless proper chemical assists are 
available to get them so high they. think your yawns & electronic 
pharts are sublime & majestically musical. 
So, | sound square & stuffy. A regular put-dowpn artist in cognito. 
The W.E.C. is a “list of tools’’ and the tools are out there for those 
who've got. | started with Viking tape recorders & Heathkit 
oscillators, cause in those days | didn’t have. But, with the two 
best tools I've ever come across: my hands, | built dumb things 
that got music (of sorts) down & done. A mention of all the 
auxillary hardware that the promising new E.M. enthusiast will 
Buchla, marketed by CBS, has a handy 
user’s guide. 
. 
Write to: 
CBS Musical Instruments 
Coiumbia Broadcasting System, Inc. 
1300 East Valencia 
- 
: 
Fullerton; California 92631 
° 
For information on new Buchla equipment (the Electric Music 
Box) write to: 
Don Buchla 
Box 5051 
; Berkeley, CA 94705 
Synthesis 
Dear Whole Earth People, 
Concerning your question about the relative merits of synthesizers, I 
think it impossible to answer in less than several hours. 
Synthesis is a forum for electronic music and bru-ha-ha beginning in’ 
4 | 
January, 1971. 
ae 
| 
A small, free complimentary copy can be obtained by writing: 
Synthesis 
— 
1315 Fourth Street 
| 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55414 
a 
Peace, William A. Johnson 
_ 
(Editor) 
