Polyester & Fiberglass 
 —s_ 
: 
Fiberglass is a cheap strength material, comparable to 
wood & stee/. /t is weatherproof, land or sea, & is colored 
or translucent. The fabrication is very different, however. 
Since the material is applied as a glass cloth & a liquid 
plastic, it assumes complex & curved shapes almost as 
- 
- easily as simple shapes. This enables a breakaway from the 
lines & planes that wood & steel come in into free form & 
“organic shapes. Since fiberglass is formless, a mold is 
usually necessary. Making a mold is cheap but time 
consuming & the mold can be used many times. 
~ A boat hull or a chair are naturals for fiberglass. We used 
. 
_ 
It to make a 5’ diameter parabolic-dish for a mirror. [t would 
be a cheap & effective way to turn Frei Otto’s (see Vol I/, 
Tensile Structures, of WEC) incredible shapes into houses. 
This is a nitty-gritty book. It tells you what to ask for at 
the store. /t has names for all the mistakes we made. It enables 
you to learn so much from your first fuck-up that the 
‘second one works, [t comes as close to someone standing 
there showing you how to do.it as a book can, which is 
perhaps not so close. The lack of emphasis on safety 
procedures is a perhaps a fatal flaw. An aspirator should 
always be used when sanding fiberglass & the liquid resin 
should never come in contact with your skin—use rubber 
gloves. 
[Suggested and Reviewed by Day Chahroudi] 
POLYESTER 
; 
and 
Polyester & Fiberglass 
FIBERGLASS. 
Mactca Lannon 
: 
and 
1953, 69; 126pp. 
Information on Some Other Plastics 
$4. 50 postpaid 
from: 
Gem-O-Lite Plastics Corp. 
. 
5525 Cahuenga Blvd. 
North Hollywood, Ca. 91601 
See Epilog, 
page 543 
It is now used for making automobile bodies (Chevrolet's ‘‘Corvette”’ 
has an all-fiberglass body), and for making a permanent boat coating. 
Many manufacturers are using it to produce washing machine 
agitators, vacuum cleaners, ‘‘glass’’ fishing rods, dent-resistant 
tanks for chemicals and acids, protective safety helmets, Marine 
bullet-proof vests that weigh only eight pounds and will stop most 
shrapnel and small-arms fire, electrical insulation, laminates, precision- 
molded housings for machinery, skis, fishing tackle, chairs, futuristic 
furniture, garden furniture (Impervious to rain and sun), trailers, 
bathtubs, even coffins. And you can make any of these! 
POLYESTER PLASTIC RESIN is a thick viscous liquid about like 
corn syrup to which a catalyst (and sometimes an accelerator) 
is added. It sets up hard and stiff yet has the resiliency to resist 
repeated hammer blows when used with fiberglass. Polyester — 
~ 
alone is brittle in thin sheets. Fiberglass adds strength. 
There are many different formulations of Polyester on the market. 
The variety of properties that can be obtained from this one plastic 
is amazing, but as there are many Polyester manufacturers, of 
course there are many different Polyesters, each made for laminating 
and/or casting, but with properties that vary slightly, and with 
several different manufacturer-recommended catalysts and 
accelerators. It is always wise to follow your dealer’s recommendations 
on the catalyst system to use. Then experiment with other systems if 
you want to. 
; 
Plastics 
How does a person who becomes interested in plastics 
find out all there is to know about plastics? One solution 
may be to spend the rest of your life walking from plastic 
_ company to plastic company finding out what each are 
doing. This would be OK if you were looking for some- 
thing to do fora long period of time. But if you are 
longing for a comprehensive review of the world of plas- 
_ tics and/or some good solid reference 
material on the 
_ subject, then i suggest Plastics in the Modern World. /t is an 
_ interesting little Pelican Original pocket book by two English- 
' men; E.G. Couzens and V.E. Yarsley. Part one contains: the 
Theory and Practice of Plastics which discusses the physical, 
_ chemical and behavioral aspects of plastics, while also 
explaining the manufacturing processes involved in 
plastics production. Part two of the book concerns itself 
— 
with the domestic application of plastics and the 
_ utilization of plastics by industry. 
[Suggested and Reviewed by Michael Rosenthal] 
A special application of plastics is in concrete 
mixing; the addition of 4 per cent of epoxy resin 
_ to coat the sand and aggregate particles before 
2 
_ water-mixing is said to increase 
the tensile 
- strength 2% times. Reduction in shrinkage and 
- crack tendency can be effected, along with an 
_ increase in tensile strength by using a 32 per cent 
_ aqueous dispersion of vinyl chloride, or styrene- 
| butadiene copolymer, while an acrylic liquid 
| modifier, known as ‘Sonocrete’, is used for 
i 
__ producing a surface resistant to water and salt. 
_ The most recent development in the use of 
| 
plastics concrete mixes is known as ‘Estercrete’, 
| 
ageneral name given to products made by mixing 
unsaturated polyester resins, ethylenically 
nsaturated monomers, and Portland cement. 
ie 
New Science of Strong Materials 
Why 
does glass sometimes shatter and other times bend like 
a spring? A new field of science involves the study of 
materials as a whole, rather than in their special chemical, 
physical, and engineering aspects. Scientists have been 
investigating the atoms and molecules upon which the 
mechanical properties of materials depend, and this book 
is a clear explanation of some of the discoveries being 
made, Nothing beyond high school math, and a very 
palatable treatment of an exciting new science. 
[Suggested by Steve Baer. 
Reviewed by Lloyd Kahn] 
New Science of Strong Materials 
J. E. Gordon 
1968; 269 pp. 
$7.50 
from: 
Walker & Co. 
‘720 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10019 | 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Electric Plastic Welder 
yes, you can weld plastic. 
—jd 
- $95.00 plus postage 
(information free) 
from: 
Seelye Plastics 
9700 Newton Avenue South 
Minneapolis, MN 55431 
Plastics in the Modern World 
E. G. Couzens, V. E. Yarsley 
1941, 1956, 1968; 386 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
from: 
Pelican Books 
7110 Ambassador Road 
Baltimore, Md. 21207 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The choice of adhesive is determined by price, 
the nature of the substances to be joined, the 
strength of the bond required, and the appropriate 
glueing process. Thus phenol-formaldehyde and 
urea-formaldehyde glues are used chiefly for 
bonding wood, especially plywood; they may be 
either hot- or cold-setting according to the com- 
position used, and P.F. resins give joints resis- 
tant to boiling water. The phenol glue gives the 
stronger joint, but leaves a dark glue line. The 
urea resis are cheap, colourless, easily handled, 
and extensively used in furniture, where moisture 
resistance is not important. They can also be 
applied in separate layers, that is with the resin 
On one surface and the hardener on the other, 
and where heating is required, radio-frequency 
heating of the ‘glue line’ can be employed. 
In 
general plastics glues have the advantage over 
screws and nails that they avoid local stresses 
and give joints of great strength. 
\f easy, cheap production of sufficient accuracy 
can be achieved by small units then we may be 
able to reverse some of the centralizing trends of 
the Industrial Revolution and perhaps, in part, 
to set ourselves free from the worst tyrannies of 
mass production. There may then be more room 
for individualistic skills and for individual 
tastes — perhaps we shall all feel better for it. 
However there is very little research going on 
along these lines at present and | am afraid 
that the Satanic Mills have still quite a long 
future before them. 
‘igure 11, 
Beam theory - a beam may be considered as made up from a 
number of 
separate panels. 
‘\ 
The first thing we discovered was that we could 
get high strength from almost anything from Epsom 
salts to sapphire. Provided it was in the form of 
a thin whisker, it did not matter what the chemical 
nature of the stuff was or by what method the 
whiskers were grown. We must have worked on 
well over a hundred different substances and 
there was absolutely no doubt about it. 
oy 
+ 
+ 
> 
+4 
Es tt 
RX RK RX RK REAR 
EEE | 
s 
4 
x 
GIRS 
Sia 
y 
. 
SSN 
SS) we 
ea 
tt tt 4 + 4 4+ 9 
+ 
@ 
The worst sin in an engineering material is 
not lack of strength or lack of stiffness, desirable 
as these properties are, but lack of toughness, 
that is to say, lack of resistance to the propagation 
of cracks. One can allow for lack of strength 
or stiffness in design but it is much more difficult 
to allow forcracks which catch the engineer 
unawares and are dangerous. 
“Now. Today we are concerned with time expansion. A lot 
of people have different notions of what time expansion is, and 
they approach the phenomena in a variety of different ways: 
But the thing that all the ways have in common is that time ex- 
pansion implies a more intense experience of the present, the here 
and now. 
I’m sure that many of you sitting there listening to my 
voice are still not actually here in this moment, with me, now, 
as | talk to you. Your minds are filled with thoughts of other 
people and other places, of experience that has already happened 
or that you are waiting on to happen, or that you wished had 
happened or would happen. This is very common. 
Indeed, it 
is the way most people go around in their minds all the time. And 
it is a most wasteful, and actually harmful, destructive way to 
conduct your mental life. What we are going to do today is play 
a little self-hypnosis game that, once you master it, can be useful 
to you in helping you to learn how to live in the present in a 
natural, vital way. 
"So, if you will, lie down now, and make yourself comfortable 
on the floor, or on a mat, or mattress, or whatever you are lying 
~ 
on. 
Let your body sink and relax into the floor. Feel the relaxa- 
tion begin in your toes and flow up through your legs, into your 
thighs, feel it flood your mid-region and swell on up through your: 
chest. Relax your hands, relax your elbows, and your arms and 
your shoulders. And let the tensions go out of your neck, and your 
jaw muscles, let your entire face relax and settle naturally against 
your bones. 
Feel the relaxation flowing through you from your 
toes right up through your scalp, and feel your breath going in 
and out evenly and without effort. 
(continued) 
> 
Plastic 
Industry 
