Human Biocomputer 
BACK IN PRINT. After a year of absence, this landmark 
paper is back at a lower price {formerly $7.95, now $1.50). 
| John Lilly has worked for along time with sensory depri- 
vation, pursuing the notion that relieving the computer 
(mind) of many of its environmental-survival chores frees it 
| to attend more fully to self-investigation. Of late he’s added 
| LSD to the process and has found ways to flourish and dis- 
| cover within this doubly floating condition. 
| The paper HUMAN BIOCOMPUTER 
is the best internal 
) guidebook |’ve seen—far more practical and generalized 
than transcendent Eastern writings or wishful Underground 
| notes. Though it’s not the whole story by any means, it 
| makes an open start on fresh language and powerful tech- 
| nique for the frontier. 
| An additional advantage the paper 
offers is the opportunity 
| 
to learn and explore computers without requiring money 
| or administrative approval. You inherited and grew every- 
| thing you need, and it’s free. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Ralph Metzner] 
In the analysis of the effects »f LSD-25 on the human mind, 
| reasonable hypothesis states tat the effect of these substances on the 
| human computer is to introduce ‘‘white noise” (in the sense of 
|| randomly varying energy containing no signals of itself) in specific 
systems in the computer......... 
The increase in “‘white noise’’ energy allows quick and random access 
to memory and lowers the threshold to unconscious memories 
| (“expansion of conscicusness’’). 
In such noise one can project almost 
anything at almost any cognitive level in almost any allowable mode... 
i 
; 
e 
, 
The noise introduced brings a certain amount of disorder with it, 
| even as white noise in the physical world brings randomness. 
|| However, the LSD-25 noise randomizes signals only in a-limited way: 
not enough to destroy all order, only enough to superimpose a small 
|| creative ‘jiggling’ On program materials and metaprograms and their 
| signals. 
A 
| 
Programming and Metaprogramming 
in the Human Biocomputer— 
Theory and Experiments 
John C. Lilly, M.D. 
1967, 1970; 112 pp. 
$1 95 postpaid 
from: 
Bantam Books 
666 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
> PROGRAMMING AND 
_METAPROGRAMMING 
non 
HUMAN 
BIOCOMPUTER 
$4 
THEORY 
WSO 
AERIMENTS 
Hs Joho 
Coaminghane tilly 
MOD 
Author at (he Mind of 
the Dolphin, Man and Dolphin. 
and forthcoming Lhe Crelone's Centers 
The boundary of the brain, of course, may be considered as the limits 
of the extensions of the central nervous system:-into the periphery. 
Later with higher motivational energy the subject returned to the 
_ 
problem of the lock, the doors and the rooms somewhat refreshed by 
the experiences in the other realms. 
In the complete physical absence of other external computers within 
the critical interlock distance, the self-directed and other-directed 
programs can be clearly detected, analysed, recomputed, 
re-programmed, and new metaprograms initiated by the solitudinous 
computer itself. 
In the os-completely-as-possible-attenuated-physical- 
reality environment in solitude, 
a maximum intensity, 
a maximum 
complexity and a maximus speed of re-programming is achievable 
by the self. 
For example, the term ‘reprogramming substances’ may be appropriate 
‘for compounds like lysergic acid diethylamide. 
For substances like 
ethyl alcohol the term ‘metaprogram-attenuating substances’ may be 
useful. 
e 
The major problems of the research of interest to the author center 
:
on the erasability, modifiability, and creatibility of programs. In 
, 
$n
other words, | am interested in the processes of finding metapro- 
‘ 
grams (and methods and substances) which control, change, and 
} 
create the basic metaprograms of the human computer. It is not 
nee 
known whether one can really erase any program. 
| believe that by using certain methods and means some of which 
are presented in this work that truly talented and dedicated indivi- 
duals can forge, find, and devise new ways of looking at our minds, 
ways which are truly scientific, intellectually economical, and inter- 
actively creative. Consider for example, the case of the fictitious 
individual created by the group -of mathematicians masquerading 
under the name of “Dr. Nicholas Bourbaki”’ 
This group of mathematicians in order to create 
a mathematics or 
sets of mathematics beyond the capacity of any one individual, 
held meetings three times a year and exchanged ideas, then went 
off and worked separately. The resulting papers were published 
under a pseudonym because the products of this work were felt to 
be a group result beyond any one individual's contribution. 
In the maximally attentuated environment (92 to 95 degrees F. 
isothermal 
skin, salt water supension, zero light levels, near-zero 
sound levels, without clothes, without wall or floor contacts, in 
solitude in remote isolation, for several hours), the addition of 
LSD-25 allows one to see that all the previous experiences with 
&. 
“outside screens’’ are evasions of deeper penetration of self (and 
hence are ‘‘screens’’ in the sense of ‘‘blocking the view behind’, 
as well as ‘receiving the projected images’). 
z 
The essential features and the goals sought in the $elf-analysis is the 
metaprogram ‘‘make the computer general purpose’. In this sense 
we mean that in the general purpose nature of the computer there 
= 
can-be no display, no acting, or no ideal which is forbidden to a 
consciously willed program. Nor is any display, acting, or ideal made 
without being consciously programmed. 
“Mathematical transformations’ were next tried in the approach to the 
the locked rooms, The concept of the key fitting into the lock and 
the necessity of finding the key was abandoned and the rooms were 
approached as ‘‘topological puzzles.’’ 
!n the multidimensional 
cognitional and visual space the rooms were now manipulated without 
the necessity of the key in the lock. 
] 
: 
| The Mind of the Dolphin 
i 
aeilly knows that it is to everybody's advantage for one kind 
_ of computer to link up with another, and that’s his program 
with dolphins. 
This book reports his speculations and 
experiments with dolphins in recent years. Included is a 
thorough account by a girl, Margaret Howe, who lived alone 
» with Peter Dolphin for 10 weeks. As usual with research on 
| 
communication, everything discovered has broad implications. 
y 
—SB 
The Mind of the Dolphin 
’ 
¥ 
John Cunningham Lilly, M. D. 
1967; 286 pp. 
$.95 
plus $.15 postage 
from: 
Avon Books 
250 West 55th Street 
New York, N. Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Sometimes | feel that if man could become more involved in some 
problems of an alien species, he may become less'‘involved with his own 
€gocentric pursuits, and deadly competition within his species, and 
| become somehow a better being. 
‘We are often asked, 
“‘If the dolphins are so intelligent why aren't they 
‘ruling the world?” 
My very considered answer to this is—they may he 
too wise to try to rule the wotld. The Question can be easily turned 
around, Why does man or individual men want to rule the world? 
| 
feel that it is a very insecure position to want to rule all of the other 
“species and the vast resources of our planet. This means a deep 
insecurity with the ‘universes’ inside of one’s self. One's fears ana 
‘one’s angers are being projected on others outside of one’s self; to rule 
\the world is, finally, to rule one’s inner realities. 
Thus a given dolphin can carry on a whistle conversation with his 
right side and a clicking conversation with his left side and do the 
two quite independently with the two halves of his brain. 
i 
ft 
‘Conservatively, we estimate that the dolphin can put out ten times 
the sonic physical information per second that aman produces. 
ae 
us 
3 
i. 
[THE MIND 
2 
OF THE DOLPHIN: 
& Nonhuman intelligence 
John Sainminghes: Lily, MD. 
The information does not exist as information until it is within the 
higher levels of abstraction of each of the minds and computed as 
such. Up to the point at which it becomes perceived as information. 
it is signals. These signals travel through the external reality between 
the two bodies, and travel as signals within the brain substances 
themselves. 
Till the complex patterns of traveling neuronal impulses 
in the brain are computed as information within the cerebral cortex, 
they are not yet information. Information is the result of a long, 
series of computations based on data signal inputs, data signal 
transmissions to the brain substance, and recomputations of these 
data. 
By long and hard work | found'that the evil label ‘‘negative” should 
not be tied to any mode or any kind of thinking at all. 
| found that bodily sourcés of discomfort, pain, or threat tend to 
program the mind in the negative mode and keep it there as long as 
the discomfort continues. As long as pain, even at a very low level, 
continues, the computer (which is one’s mind) tends to program a 
negative pall. 
aa 
. 
Once one has been through deep experiences in tune with the vast 
forces of the universe, the vast forces within ourselves, we see that 
the need for conflict, the need for hostility, and the need for hatred 
become less intense. One finds the universe inside and the one 
outside so vast and so lonely that any other living thing that love 
or shows any signs of loving is precious and close. 
- 
The human participant’s assumptions, i.e., those of Margatet C. Howe, 
in her own words are as follows: 
1. Dolphins are capable of communication with man on the level of 
high intelligence. 
2. Dolphins are not only capable of this communication but are 
eager for it and are willing to cooperate with man to achieve it. 
3. Possibly the best way to go about establishing this communication 
is to set up a situation where the man (woman) and a dolphin live 
together as closely as possible for an extended period of time. 
4. This is a long process and involves many steps, each of which 
must be recognized and encouraged. The attempt to communicate 
with a dolphin in English involves two main parts: (1) the dolphin 
must learn how to physically say the words, and (2) he must learn 
the meaning of what he is saying. These two parts may be worked out 
Out individually or simultaneously. 
: 
5. One first step is the creation and the maintenance of the mutual 
trust and reciprocal rewards one for the other 
4 ttn, 
EG Pees Pah 
hz Bee ae 
<s 
She filled the clothesline full, twenty yards of overalls and work 
shirts, sheets and towels and socks and underwear, a few dresses of 
her own, his own small clothes sprinkled in between. They hung 
there all afternoon, flapping in the wind like ghosts of anentire 
— 
family. 
Emmit coughed.into the curtain of the dream. D.R. heard him 
in the kitchen, building a fire in the coal stove. 
He could tell by the way Emmit handled the stove lids he was 
being as quiet as he could to keep from disturbing him. But it was 
morning now and D.R. was awake before Emmit was. 
It was too 
dark ‘yet to see but he heard him putting his clothes on across the 
room. He heard the spring on the screen door whine when he went 
outside to pee. Then he heard him in the kitchen building a fire 
and putting water on to boil, and D.R. lay there watching the room 
; 
take shape as the dark gave way to the growth of light in the win- 
;
dow. 
b 
e 
‘ 
Mind 
5 
Communications 
i 
if
Here he comes. 
