beware of whole systemitis. 
its. the lonliness awareness. 
imagine you are a near sighted, bucktoothed, kid, doing 
sunflower seeds, 
ae 
and somebody comes along and puts eyeglasses on you, 
holds up a mirror, 
then takes you out on a hilltop at night, 
points up at the little winks out there, 
and tells you they aren’t really little winks at all, 
but great big flashes, 
a long way away, 
then asks you if you want some more sunflower seeds. 
you want to throw away the eyeglasses, but,it is too /ate, 
you are stuck, 
you ‘ve seen it, 
you are little, 
alone, 
puny, 
EXCODE .c 
23 se 
except for a few soft flannel thoughts, 
and a belief that there are others like you, 
brothers like you, 
and that a sunflower seed 
is a whole system too. 
—~jd 
Andromeda Galaxy 
Four color photograph posters 
Galaxy Posters 
of Orion Crab, Trifed, Nebula 
20” x 2872” 
and Andromeda Galaxies. 
Peerless meditation targets. 
$4.00 for set of four 
from: 
[Suggested by 
ion ape aie euaibg 
Doug Engelbart 
Barrington, N. J. 08007 
Star Maker 
A man’s consciousness unwillingly departs his body and his 
planet. Once in space he accomplishes willed travel in search 
of Star Maker. His journey takes him into the minds of other 
planetary beings; a company of these travel together and 
witness countless civilizations; eventually they participate 
in a combined consciousness of worlds that in time embraces 
the stars as well; this leads to galactic and cosmic consciousness 
and the culminating encounter with Star Maker. 
Jordan Belson, who | trust in these matters, asserts that it is 
a true vision, that Stapledon’s whole life pointed at attaining 
it, and that the book will be used and discussed for centuries. 
This Dover edition includes an earlier Stapledon story, “Last 
and First Men”. 
=SB 
Star Maker 
Olaf Stapledon 
1937; 188 pp. 
$1.25 postpaid 
from: 
Penguin Books 
7110 Ambassador Rd. 
Baltimore, MD 21207 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Cosmic View 
“The Universe in 40 Jumps” is the subtitle of the book. It 
delivers. 
The man who conceived and rendered it, a Dutch school- 
master named Kees Boeke, gave years of work to perfecting 
the information in-his pictures. 
The result is one of the 
THE UMIVERSE IN 40 JUMPS 
Qpoo this keod aed jaucnny oxswoaes 
ARS V8 thee edge of infinity. Men 
ekemdgh sscrooriny neater at xn te the 
o4000"> econteiersiv © sucion wf drowbnys cosh 
aaue trem o paint ton sires farther er sea 
Bente chester stoon the wenvinee 
_by KEES BOEKE 
dotroskedtton by 
ABTHUR H. COMPTON 
Cosmic View 
Kees Boeke 
1957; 48 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid 
from: 
The John Day Company 
257 Park Avenue South 
New York, N. Y. 10010 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The Hubble Atlas of Galaxies 
This book is a series of superb photographs which is the 
definition of Edwin Hubble’s classification of galaxies. 
Galaxies come in a variety of shapes from round blurry ones 
through the familiar spiral in Andromeda to fantastic 
blazing pinwheels like M1017. 
Hubble has lined them up in a sequence according to shape. 
The meaning of this sequence has not yet been determined. 
It may indicate a series of stages in the life‘of one galaxy 
which progresses from blurred youngsters to majestic 
spiral or vice versa. More likely vice versa, since the spirals 
contain hot young blue stars which we know will burn out 
in.a few million years or so, while the blurry ones contain 
many 
ancient red giants. 
It is also possible that the 
sequence is not an age sequence at all, but merely reflects 
conditions at that place in the universe when that galaxy 
was formed. 
But besides being a tool for scientists, this book is like a 
guided tour through our own miraculous universe. When 
this planet gets you-down, leaf through the Atlas and 
feast your spirit on galaxy after galaxy, as beautiful and 
varied as snow flakes. Some galaxies are so far away that 
the graininess of the photograph shows in the blow up. 
Some photographs show small blurred objects in the 
background which one suddenly realizes are more galaxies. 
[Reviewed by Jenny Deupree. 
* Suggested by Jordan Belson] 
The sheer beauty of our planet surprised me. 
It was a huge pearl, set 
in spangled ebony. 
It was nacrous, it was an opal. No, it was far more 
lovely than any jewel. 
Its patterned colouring was more subtle, more 
ethereal. 
It displayed the delicacy and brilliance, the intricacy and har- 
mony of alive thing. Strange that in my remoteness | seemed to feel, 
as never before, the vital presence of Earth as of a creature alive but 
tranced and obscurely yearning to wake. 
The sport of disembodied flight among the stars must surely be the 
most exhilarating of all athletic exercises. 
It was not without danger; 
but its danger, as we soon discovered, was psychological, not physical. 
In our bodiless state, collision with celestial objects mattered 
little. Sometimes, in the early stages of our adventure, we plunged 
by accident headlong into a star. 
Its interior would, of course, be 
inconceivably hot, but we experienced merely brilliance. 
The psychological dangers of the sport were grave. We soon discovered 
that disheartenment, mental fatigue, fear, all tended to reduce our pow- 
ers of movement. More than once we found ourselves immobile in 
space, like a derelict ship on the ocean; and such was the fear roused 
by this plight that there was no possibility of moving till, having 
experienced the whole gamut of despair, we passed through indif- 
ference and on into philosophic calm. 
Though the pronoun “I” now applied to us all collectively, the pronoun 
“we also applied to us. 
In one respect, namely unity of consciousness, 
we were indeed a single experiencing individual; yet at the same time we 
were in avery important and delightful manner distinct from one another. 
With unreasoning passion we strove constantly to peer behind each 
minute particular event in the cosmos to see the very features of that 
infinity which, fcr lack of a truer name, we had called the Star Maker. 
But, peer as we might, we found nothing. Though in the whole and 
in each particular thing the dread presence indubitably confronted 
us, its very infinity prevented us from assigning to it any features 
whatever. 
simplest, most thorough, inescapable mind blows ever 
printed. 
Your mind and you advance in and out through 
the universe, changing scale by a factor of ten. 
/t very 
quickly becomes hard to breathe, and you realize how 
magnitude-bound weve been. 
—SB 
The Hubble Atlas of Galaxies 
Allan Sandage 
1961; 50 plates 
$1 2.50 postpaid from: 
Carnegie Institution of Washington 
1530 P Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20005 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
See Epitog, page 457 
“When the.cosmos wakes, if ever she does, she will find \erself not 
the single beloved of her maker, but merely a little bubble adrift 
on the boundless and bottomless ocean of being.” 
Almost certainly, the star's whole physical behaviour is normally 
experienced as a blissful, an ecstatic, an ever successful pursuit of 
formal beauty. This the minded worlds were able to discover through 
their own most formalistic aesthetic experience. 
In fact it was 
through this experience that they first made contact with stellar 
mind. 
We, or rather |, now experienced the slow drift of the galaxies much 
as a man feels the swing of his own limbs. From my score of view- 
points | observed the great snowstorm of many million galaxies, 
streaming and circling, and ever withdrawing farther apart from 
One another with the relentless ‘expansion’ of space. 
But though 
the vastness of space was increasing in relation to the size of 
galaxies and stars and worlds, to me, with my composite, scattered 
body, space seemed no bigger than a great vaulted hall. 
From all the coincident and punctual centres of power, light leapt and 
blazed. The cosmos exploded, actualizing its potentiality of space and 
time. The centres of power, like fragments of a bursting bomb, were 
hurled apart. 
But each One retained in itself, as 
a memory and a longing, 
the single spirit of the whole; and each mirrored in itself aspects of all 
others throughout all the cosmical space and time. 
| said, ‘It is enough, and far more than enough, to be the creature of so 
dread and lovely a-spirit, whose potency is infinite, whose nature passes 
the comprehension even of a minded cosmos. 
It is enough to have been 
created, to have embodied for a moment the infinite and tumultuously 
creative spirit. 
It is infintely more than enough to have been used, to 
have been the rough sketch for some perfected creation.” 
Cosmos 
Whole Systems 
