Gestalt Therapy Verbatim 
Frederick S. Perls, M.D., Ph.D. 
1969; 279 pp. 
$1.65 Postpaid 
from: 
: 
Bantam Books 
666 Fifth Ave. 
New York, NY 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Helpers are con men, interfering. 
People have to grow by frustration 
— by skillful frustration. Otherwise they have no incentive to 
develop their own means and ways of coping with the world. 
F: Okeh. Withdraw into your body, to your anxiety. 
G: My—-—|I can feel my heart pounding, and my pulse is——and 
my arms, and my legs, and my neck ... Actually it’s not a bad 
feeling. 
, 
F: Enjoy it. 
3 
G: It’s a good strong heart . 
. 
. | feel the warmth of the fire on 
my back——that’s nice, too. 
F: Now come back to us. 
G: \'m not so scared now——it works every time, Fritz. 
Now let's take another step. You come up here and talk to me——just 
Say anything. 
(as the person speaks, Fritz imitates his words, voice 
inflection, and facial expressions) 
Pair up and do this, and again try 
‘to really get the feei of being this other person. 
... 
Now | want each one of you to transform yourself into something a 
_ little bit more different. Say, transform yourself into a road. 
... 
Now transform yourself into a motorcar. 
... 
Now transform yourself into a six months-old baby .. 
. 
Now transform yourself into the mother of that baby .. 
. 
Now transform yourself into that same baby again... 
_ 
Now the same mother... 
Now the same baby . 
. 
. 
Now be two years of age... 
Now transform yourself into your present age, the age you are. . 
. Can 
everyone perform that miracle? 
Q: What is your opinion about meditation? 
F: Meditation is neither shit nor get off the pot. 
_ The Primal Scream 
| .../ read The Primal Scream. 
It is a long book written by a man who 
| has stumbled upon a very valuable technique, and who still has not 
_ explored it to his total satisfaction, but who wants 
to communicate 
his whole experience and all he knows about it. 
_ Dr. Janov says that neuroses and psychoses result from thwarted 
| attempts made by the human organism in childhood to get what 
| it wants: 
If an infant’s Primal Needs (to be fed, kept warm and 
| dry, to grow and develop at its own pace, to be held and caressed, 
to be stimulated) are not fulfilled, the infant must separate his 
| needs from his consciousness, in order to avoid the pain of unful- 
) fillment. 
The infant, and later the child, is forced to split into a 
) 
real and an unreal self, to build a false persona which he uses in 
_his struggle for gratification. Each time the struggle fails, each 
| time the child is required to be other than he is in order to fulfill 
_ some aspect of his parents’ needs, the resu/tant pain, unuttered and 
_ unrequited, is driven within, to add another drop to the Primal Pool, 
_ the reservoir of hurt. 
/ 
As the assaults on the real system mount, they begin to crush the 
real person. One day an event will take place which, though not 
_ necessarily traumatic in itself— giving the child to a baby sitter 
| for the hundreth time— 
will shift the balance between real and 
) unreal and render the child neurotic. That event | call the major 
Primal Scene. 
It isa time in the young child’s life when all the 
fo 
humiliations, negations, and deprivations accumulate into an 
inchoate realization: 
‘’There is no hope of being loved for what 
| 
lam.” {tis then that the child defends himself against that 
_ gatastrophic realization by becoming split from his feelings, and 
slips quietly into neurosis. The realization is not a conscious one. 
Rather, the child begins acting around his parents, and then elsewhere, 
in the manner expected by them. He says the/r words and does 
heir thing. He acts unreal, i.e., not in accord with the reality of 
his own needs and desires. 
In a short time the neurotic behavior 
becomes automatic.” 
lanov’s cure for neurosis is simply to drain the Primal Pool, to 
enable his patients to feel their long-repressed pain and outrage, 
.. .to feel and recognize the split, and scream out the connection 
that will unify the person again.” It is to this goal that Primal 
Therapy is directed. 
Gestalt Therapy Verbatim 
In and Out the Garbage Pail 
Fritz Perls is not nearly as deceased as he seems. 
These two 
books preserve his power for all to tap and use. They also, to 
my mind, revolutionize the book industry. Gestalt Therapy 
Verbatim is made of tapes from Fritz’ seminars and workshops 
at Esalen——and seldom will you find conflict, funk; truth and 
accomplishment so thick in a book. In and Out the Garbage 
Pail is Fritz’ application of his methods to himself, through 
the very writing. 
It’s autobiography, theory, poetry, and 
Fritz’ many voices hassling each other through impasse into 
growth. The illustrations by Russ Youngreen raise the book 
by at least a dimension. 
But all of this is derivative from Fritz Perls’ main accomplish- 
ment. His psychology and his therapy . 
. 
. work. 
_sB 
[Suggested by Barry Stevens] 
Look at the difference between the words “’] am tensing myself’’ and 
“There's a tenseness here.’’ When you say ‘'! feel tenseness,"’ you're 
irresponsible, you are not responsible for this, you are impotent and 
you can’t do anything about it. The world should do something—— 
give you aspirin or whatever it is. But when you say ‘I am tensing”’ 
you take responsibility, and we can see the first bit of excitement 
of life coming out. So stay with this sentence. 
As soon as you say, “| want to change’’—make a program—a counter- 
force is created that prevents you from change. Changes.are taking 
place by themselves. 
If you go deeper into what you are, if you 
accept what is there, then a change automatically occurs by itself. 
You see how you can use evervihing ina dream. 
If you are pursued 
by an ogre in a dream, and you become the ogre, the nightmare 
disappears. You re-own the energy that is invested in the demon. 
Then the power of the ogre is no longer outside, alienated, but 
inside where you can use it. 
You never overcome ary thing by resisting it. You only can overcome 
anything by going deeper into it. If you are spiteful, be more spite- 
ful. !f you are performing, increase the performance. Whatever it 
is, if you go deeply enough into it, then it will disappear; it will be 
assimilated. Any resistance is no good. You have to go full into it-— 
swing with it. Swing with your pain, your restlessness, whatever is 
there. Use your spite. Use your environment. 
Use all that you 
fight and disown. 
Gestalt Therapy Verbatim 
For the first three weeks of Primal Therapy, the patient is the 
therapist’s only patient. Twenty-four hours before the first 
session, the patient is isolated in a hotel room and asked not to 
leave it until he reports for therapy the following day. During 
that time, he is asked not to read, watch TV, telephone anyone, 
smoke, drink, or take drugs. When the patient arrives for therapy 
the next-day, he is asked to talk about his childhood. 
The therapist 
observes him closely for signs of feeling. When the feelings manifest, 
the patient is urged to sink into them. When he begins to invent 
defense mechanisms, they are forbidden him. He is told to lie on 
his back, arms and legs spread-eagled, and breathe deeply through 
his mouth. When the unrequited needs of childhood begin to 
rise in him, he is told to give them utterance. 
“Tell Daddy youre 
afraid!” “Momma, don’t go!” The patient will begin 
to thrash 
about, experience nausea, have difficulty breathing, try to say it, 
as the therapist urges him to /et it out. 
Finally, out it will come: ascream— ‘’Daddy, be nicel’’ ‘Mommy 
help!""— or just the word “hate”: 
“‘I hate you, ! hate you!”” This 
is the Primal Scream. 
It comes out in shuddering gasps, pushed out 
by the force of years of suppressions and denials of that feeling. 
Sometimes the scream is only “‘Mommy!” or Daddy!" Just 
saying those words brings with it torcents of pain since many 
“mommies” would not even permit their children to call them 
anything but ‘’Mother.’’ 
Letting down and being that little child 
who needs a ‘“’“mommy” helps release all the stored-up feeling.” 
This process continues for three weeks, after which the patient 
will enter a therapy group, where for several months he will 
continue to experience what Dr. Janov calls Primals, his openness 
having developed beyond the need for exclusive attention. 
So that’s what happens, and | was interested to read a while ago 
that it was happening to John Lennon, that he and Yoko were 
patients of Dr. Janov in his Southern California clinic. 
Thena 
friend brought me John’s new record and said, ““Hey, man, here’s 
that Primal Therapy you were telling me about.” And itis... . 
[Reviewed by Roland Jacopetti. 
Reprinted from Organ (p. 241)] 
In and Out the Garbage 
Pail 
Frederick S. Perils, M.D., 
Ph.D. 
1969; 280 pp. 
$1.65 postpaid 
from: 
: 
Bantam Books 
666 Fifth Ave. 
New York, NY 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
One remark that | get makes me embarrassed and angry: ‘When will 
the book come out?” 
“Will you please leave me alone and let me do my thing! 
| am glad 
that | am excited and eager to write. 
| am glad to do something 
that integrates your needs and mine. So, don’t push the river; it 
flows by itself!’ 
e 
But | am holding onto my credo: 
‘‘l am responsible only for myself. 
You are responsible for yourselves. 
| resent your demands on me, as 
| resent any intrusion into my way of being.” 
1 know | am holding on just a bit too tight. 
Topdog: Stop, Fritz. what are you doing? 
Underdog: What do you mean? 
Cope and withdraw, contract and expand, implode and explode—— 
like the heart imploding, contracting, and tien exploding, opening 
to be filled. Permanent contracting leads to quick death, as does 
permanent extension. 
2 
In and Out of the Garbage Pail 
The Primal Scream 
Arthur Janov 
1970; 446 pp. 
Priva 
4) 
$1.50 postpaid 
from: 
Dell Publishing Company 
1 Dag Hammarskjold Plaz 
245 E. 47th St. 
New York, NY 10017 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
PRIMAL 
THERAPY: 
twe'Cne 
FOR NEUROSIS 
ARTHUR JANOY, Ph.D, 
Fe 
Sy 
Se eT 
MONDAY: THE SCHEME 
On Monday morning, D.R. went to work expanding Emmit’s 
scheme. 
He had tinkered with it and nursed it along, doing chores, in the 
time he had lived alone as Emmit’s successor at the homeplace. But 
it wasn’t until this particular Monday morning that D.R. took up 
tools to enlarge and make his own mark on the work that Emmit 
had begun the last year of his life. 
(continued) 
ae 
ees al 
Psychology 4 1 
Learning 
