, 
: 
for one year (weekly) 
Scientific American 
Good old Scientific American. 
—SB’ 
SCIENTIFIC 
Av Sc: ee 
PTEROSAURIA 
PENT Ie 
(DIMORPHODON) 
WUE RIC Gy 
Scientific American 
from: 
Scientific American 
P.O. Box 5919 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
New Scientist 
New Scientist /s the best evidence we’ve seen 
that there are new scientists in the world, 
young, politically aware, irreverent, active. 
Every week here’s yet another New Scientist 
(if you get behind reading, it’s hopeless), full 
of actual news, critique, and gossip of the 
research world. 
The magazine is British, so you 
get verspective on U. S. accomplishments 
(flattery nonetheless), and report of world- 
wide activities unreported in most American 
journals. 
The Ariadne column is a gem. 
SB 
[Suggested by Steve Baer] 
New Scientist 
$34.00 airireight 
from: 
New Scientist 
128 Long Acre 
London W. GC. 2 
NOW: 5 
scientist 
— 
5 
SCIENCE 
JOURNAL) - 
A weird case coming before the court at Oakland, California, results 
from the discovery that a computer was emitting more data than it 
had been asked for. After investigation police suggested that an un- 
authorized program had been run through the computer at the 
coded command of another computer belonging to a different com- 
pany. The police obtained a warrant to search for electronic im- 
pulses in the memory of the suspect machine. The case (involving 
trade secrets) and its outcome should make legal history. 
Science 
! have to acknowledge I’ve gotten more useful tips from 
this magazine than any other technical or scientific journal. 
Membership $18.00/yr 
Science 
$40 /yr (weekly) 
from: 
American Association for the Advancement of Science 
1515 Massachusetts Avenue, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 20005 
Our Fragile Environment 
The quality of the environment, ecology, and pollution problems” 
have recentiy become matters of concern everywhere. My own 
personal explanation for this outburst of interest may be peculiar 
to myself, but 1 would like to know whether my explanation sounds 
a responsive chord in the minds-of others. 
| date my own reawakening 
of interest in man’s environment to the Apollo 8 mission and to the 
first clear photographs of the earth from that mission. My theory is 
that the views of the earth from that expedition and from the sub- 
sequent Apollo flights have made many of us see the earth as a 
whole, in a curious way——as a single environment in which hun- 
dreds of millions of human beings have a stake. 
One view in particular is awe-inspiring——with Africa in the fore- 
ground and the whole profile of the Mediterranean very clear. 
One stares at the whole Mediterranean, looking from outer 
space much as in an atlas, but not as a drawing. Much of our 
most commonly taught history centers around that little sea, a 
mere patch of the hemisphere, which once seemed to its inhabitants 
to be the whole world. 
Looking at the blackness beyond the sharp blue-green curve, 
trying to see even the place where the thin envelope of atmosphere 
and the solid earth meet, the curious word “ fragile’ comes to 
mind. To be on the earth and think of it as fragile is ridiculous. 
But to see it from Out There and to compare it with the deadness 
of the Moon! | suspect that the greatest lasting benefit of the 
Apollo missions may be, if my hunch is correct, this sudden rush 
of inspiration to try to save this fragile environment——the whole 
one—— 
if we still can. 
Holos OaHrey 
Science 
Industry 
Washington, D.C. 20036 
$7 
If we look at man’s use of energy, the 
future of fossil fuels or fission is mea- 
sured in centuries; only deuterium or 
sunlight can carry us through a long his- 
tory of industrial life. Our history is now 
marked-on a time axis by one single 
pulse of fossil energy, rising from the 
axis and falling back to it again in about 
a millennium. We are in the first fourth 
of that pulse today. Right now men add 
as much heat to the earth’s surface as 
and conduction from the earth’s hot in- 
terior does, and we face a tenfold rise in 
man’s activities. For the first time in so 
central a parameter as energy men will 
have worked on a geologic scale. (Of 
course, the sun sends 1,000 times more 
heat to the earth’s surface; we shall not 
cook ourselves that way!) Still, our myr- 
jad stacks and tailpipes aggregate to 
more heat than Krakatoa, Etna and the 
Valley of Ten Thousand Smokes. 
Globe-Trotter’s Peril 
[ie ‘painful, nauseating but feverless 
disease known 
as “traveler’s 
diar- 
rhea” has often been blamed 
on 
a 
change in water or climate, on chilled 
drinks and on other dietary indiscre- 
tions. Its actual cause now seems to be 
known; it appears to result from the suf- 
ferer’s ingestion of the intestinal bac- 
terium Escherichia coli, but a bacterium 
that belongs to a strain different from 
$12.00 for one year (monthly) 
American Council on Education 
the natural flow of heat by convection 
“O thou, who in former times didst wondrously magnify ous appro- 
priations, that the Marxites might be humbled; cut not back the 
sustenance of thy servants in the days of tightness which are upon 
us; but grant, we beseech thee, a renewal of thy support, that we 
may reap such a harvest of peaceful uses and spinnings-off 
as will 
move the people to glorify thine administration. Amen.” 
Grassland used as a car park can easily degenerate into a quagmire. 
British Ropes Ltd. has made a one-inch mesh polypropylene net 
which can be used as an inexpensive way of stopping land from 
becoming boggy and rutted through use by cars, caravans etc. 
The net is spread over grass and pegged down. The grass will 
grow through the net, and can even be mowed without damaging 
the net. The net has been tried out at Sywell Aerodrome near 
Northampton and has helped keep the airport open under conditions 
which would previously-have lead to damage to the surface. Poly- 
propylene nets might also be useful on river banks and they could 
help stabilize other earthworks and protect freshly seeded areas. 
If we were to judge by the sales of Spock's books, we would have to 
conclude that many parents of nonactivists must have put the 
Spock advice on their bookshelf, if not into their practices. 
But 
the stucies of young activists suggest that their parents (often 
trained in, or well read in, social science fields where Freudian 
theory and Spock's advice held considerable sway) reacted more 
favorably to this advice than did the parents of nonactivists. 
Parents 
of activists expressed more frequently than others a belief that their 
own parents had been too harsh, too remote, too unfriendty, too 
strict, and too arbitrary. They indicated that they hoped to make 
things different for their children, and they expressed a belief in 
the efficacy of Spock's advice. Concomitantly, activists, more 
frequently than nonactivists, described their parents as lenient or 
not strict. 
Thus the suggestion is that the young activists of the 1960's were 
“Spock marked.’’ More pertinently, several studies in child 
psychology suggest that the-love-oriented methods of discipline 
advocated by Spock tend to foster close identification of the 
child with the parent and corresponding acceptance by the child 
of his parents’ values and expectations. 
A contradiction of poputar beliefs about activists is indicated 
here, for this evidence suggests that the young activists of the 1960'S, 
far from being the rampant deviates that they were often said to be, 
were, in fact, conformists. They were conforming, through identi- 
fication, to a model presented by their parents. 
... 
When we look to the studies for such signs of psychopathology as 
excessive anxiety, neurotic preoccupations, general paranoid beliefs, 
delusional thinking, diminished self-esteem, loss of self-control, 
excessive dependency, flattened affect, irresponsible interpersonal 
relations, lack of drive, hysteria, depression, extreme hostility, 
and psychopathy, we fail to find that such behaviors were any more 
common among activists than among comparable samples of non- 
activists. Moreover, in the direction of positive mental health, the 
evidence indicates that activists were relatively high in self-respect, 
self-sufficiency, intellectual orientation, and concern for others 
and realtively low in ethnocentrism, possessiveness, and dependency. 
those he already harbors. 
Murder at Thank God Bay 
PROBOSCIDEA 
* 
See Epiloa, — 
page 539 
PEYToW. 
PS 
Internal pollution is being brought about in three ways: by the 
ingestion and inhalation of the products of our already polluted 
external environment; by our daily intake of chemical additives 
and impurities pre-packed into the food we eat and drink; and by 
of the danger-of this last factor is dawning was conveyed to me 
© 
mundane daily television commercials | was agreeably surprised 
to find one sponsored by the B!ue Cross-Blue Shield Health 
Why wait? Take an aspirin. . .Indigestion? Quick! an antacid... 
Can.t get to sleep? A pill will help you. . .Feeling down? Take 
a....'" The voide fades——pause——deep voice concludes with 
slow measured emphasis. ‘‘Have you thought that you might be 
that showed not only unexpected foresight, but something 
meriting constant repetition. 
There is a need, a transient need, a violent need for being just your- 
self, restating, recreating, talking in your own terms about what,you 
have learned from all the cultures, scientific and non-scientific, 
before you and around you. During that period you want to be 
almost alone, with just a few friends. You want to be undisturbed. 
You want to be free to think not for an hour at a time, or three 
hours at a time, but for two days or two weeks, if possible, without 
interruption. You don’t want to drive the family car or go to 
parties. You wish people would just go away and leave you alone 
while you get something straight. Then, you get it straight and 
you embody it, and during that period of embodiment you have a 
© 
feeling of almost divine guidance. Then it is done, and, suddenly, 
you are alone, and you have a need to go back to your friends and 
the world around you, and to all history, to be refreshed, to feel 
alive and human once again. 
It is this interplay between all that 
is richly human and this special, concentrated, uninterrupted 
mental effort that seems to me to be the source, not only of 
science, but also of everything that is worthwhile in life. 
Edwin H. Land 
Free reprints 
- 
Bill Dickinson says you can always 
get free reprints of articles in 
Scientific American, New Scientist, 
etc. by writing to the authors. They 
all have hundreds of copies. 
the vast number of medicaments with which we regularly dose our- 
selves——more often than not unnecessarily. That some realization 
~ 
recently when in the United States. Among the seemingly endless _ 
Insurance Company, going something like this. “Got a headache? 
killing yourself?’ For once, advertising was used to say something 
e
;: 
7
’
:
qj
a
Ki 
it 
ga
vd 
5 
e
ee
ee
