Arcology 
It | get it right [and getting it at all is something: it takes 
‘either lots of work or none at all] Soleri sees the next 
step in evolution as man’s job. He sees that step 
manifested in an organism and that organism is the city. 
Soleri says that the first part of his book is the most 
important. But on seeing the second part it’s very 
difficult to muster much time for the first part. It.pays, 
_ though, nicely. Soleri refers to Teilhard de Chardin in 
approaching the understanding of man as.a cosmic 
problem by ascending from physics, chemistry, biology 
and geology, Western man must rise from his technology 
and one (I think) way is by being aware (of it) but 
ignoring it at the same time. The manifestation of a 
process like this is, | think, a series of drawings like that 
of the second part of the book. These drawings are like 
doorways, they're of fantastic cities, wholly improbably 
but obviously, cosmically, possible. In fact, they are 
_ made real just by their presence in one place (the book) 
and by the interrelatedness of one project to the next, 
page to page, with seminal sketches appearing in the 
corners here and there. What's most fascinating are the 
next obvious steps: the Cosanti and Arcosanti buildings 
in Arizona. He’s not starting all at once, big money style, 
but the way cities have always started: little by little. Like 
_ Nieuw Amsterdam on the tip of Manhattan Island or 
_ whatever city began at whatever river crossing or natural 
harbor, Soleri is beginning at a crossing of cosmic 
consciousness. 
[Reviewed by Ron Williams] 
Sketchbooks of Paolo Soleri 
If you're into Soleri very much you'll want to get into his 
head. His notebooks will do it for you. The man dreams 
and schemes cloudbursts of passionate structure. 
; Sketchbooks of Paolo Soleri 
~ 1971; 418 pp. 
$12.95 paper postpaid 
from: 
’ Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
Publications Office 
28 Carleton St. 
Cambridge, Mass. 02142 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
THE PORCH IS NOW OPEN ON INFINITY, 
NO MORE ON THE BUSY-BODIES OF 
MORE OR LESS TAILORED DIMENSION, 
WHICH CLOSENESS & NEED-SENTIMENTS 
ARE INALIENABLE BUT ONLY PART OF 
SUCH INFINITY 
_ ONE COULD SUGGEST THAT AS AN OPENING 
THE DOOR ON. THE HOUSE OF WORSHIP 
ONE EXPECTS & FIND A PLACE OF 
SOMEHOW RARE PARAMETRES TO WHICH 
LIFE LENDS MORE OF AN ABSTRACTION 
- THAN ANY PARTICULAR: SO THE TOTAL 
ONE SIDE OF THE DOME “WINDOW” OPENS ON 
THE INFINITUM HOUSE OF WORSHIP WHICH 
. 
CATHARTIC MOMENTUM IS4N REASON OF LIGHT & 
vitTt? 
: 
Leena 
Po lag oo oral 
Aaa 
ae —= 
= 
ar 
3 
Novanoah I, floating city for 40,000 
Arcology 
Arcology: The City in the Image of Man 
Paolo Soleri 
1969: 121 pp. 
$16.95 cloth 
or 
$8.50 paper 
The M. I. T. Press 
from: 
50 Ames Street, Room 765 
The Cosanti Foundation 
6433 Doubletree Ranch Road 
Scottsdale, Arizona 85253 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
(An 
— 
SEASON—HOURS—ATMOSPHERE—WEATHER..... & SPACE & SPACES 
The Climate Near the Ground 
This appears to be the definitive text on microclimatology: 
the climatic conditions within 6 feet or so of the earth’s 
surface. The climate in this narrow stratum differs 
significantly from the overall climate, and the book analyzes, 
in some detail, the relation of soil, water, vegetation, 
topography, man and animals to the microclimate. 
——Lloyd Kahn 
[Suggested by Steve Baer] 
The Climate Near the Ground 
Rudolf Geiger 
1966; 611 pp. 
: $15.00 postpaid 
from: 
Harvard University Press 
_79 Garden Street 
_ Cambridge, Mass. 02138 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Ae 
> 
te 
The risk of bringing about a deterioration of climate by human 
intervention depends on the type of climate, and is greatest where 
plant life is fighting for its existence because of a shortage of water 
or heat. 
It is possible for very limited intervention into the water 
balance to produce far-reaching results in the bordering regions 
of arid zones. Great “regeneration argas’” have been laid out 
around the town of Broken Hill in Australia, the great mining 
center for silver, lead, and zinc, situated in the middle of arid 
desert land. Wise foresight indicating that the original sparse 
vegetation in the area would have to be removed by the inhabi- 
tants, 
a comparatively luxuriant type of vegetation was grown in 
surrounding fenced-in and irrigated areas, improving the climate 
of the town, providing recreation spaces, and offering protection 
against dust storms in summer. 
Irrigation has a double purpose: 
to further the optimum growth 
of plants by giving them the supplies of water they need, and to 
increase air humidity during the hottest hours of the day ina 
dry period; this has the effect of reducing, as far as possible, the 
passive transpiration of the plant, which is its method of protec- 
ting itself against high temperatures, but which makes unnecessary 
demands on energy. The first of these aims is achieved by watering 
at night, the second by watering during the day with as fine a spray 
as possible. The period of watering, its duration, the quantity and 
temperature of the water must all be adjusted to suit the type and 
age of the fruit to be protected, and the weather at the time. 
Irrigation techniques must therefore go hand in hand with micro- 
climatology. 
Plan of Arcodiga (dam site) 
To introduce living and working into the masonry of the dam means 
to transform a monolithic, noncellular system into one that is 
articulated and cellular. 
For equal mass the cellular system, not 
randomly given but structurally conceived, is stronger because it 
allows selectivity of orientation and dimensionality. 
lf one then considers the 1:7 ratio of redundance in the safety 
coefficient in the dams built in the United States, one can see the 
wealth of schemes that can effectively and magnificently trans- 
form the blind mass into a singing environment. 
few people have gotten to see paolo saleri’s exhibit of his 
work at the whitney museum in new york, and not too 
many can put out $27.50 to buy this book (which is well 
worth it)... but for $10.00 you can purchase a series of 
8 posters. soleri runs a summer school program, the 
arcosanti workshop, for architecture students, each year he 
puts out a poster in the ‘siltpile’ series advertising his school 
and generally telling what they’re into. well anyway, it’s 
a neat series of posters. 
send $10.00 to 
coasanti foundation 
6433 east doubletree road 
scottsdale, arizona 85253 
jon zimmerman 
norfolk, virginia 
Lt eer er Pe re fb ne 
\ 
¥ 
wy rs 7S 
A 
one 
oS 
Previa 
Se 
LOVE 
“Amen.” 
The Greek bowed to the west and he bowed to the east, 
and came up filled with love for everything in the universe. 
When he saw D.R. leaning against the picnic table with what he 
took to be a forlorn look on his face he felt apologetic for coming 
on to him so hard during the ceremony. 
To make amends he 
went over and hugged him. 
"| _love you, man,” said the Greek. 
"I love you, and you and 
you too, you're all just lovely, and | love you. 
| love the bus, 
| love those people down there at the other table, | love that 
big truck, and its driver, and the drivers of all those cars going 
by. 
I love the desert, | love the sky, | love the mountains in 
the distance, the oceans beyond the mountains, and all who dwell 
in the lands beyond the oceans. 
1! love:all sentient beings 
everywhere, regardless of their race, color, creed, place-of national 
origin, or species. 
“Now perhaps you wonder how it is that a mere mortal 
such as | have become capable of such boundless love for every- 
thing in all creation. 
| mean, how is it, do you suppose, that 
a single individual is able to sustain a feeling of love for absolutely 
everything, twenty-four hours a day, every day, all his life? The 
answer, my friends, is simple. 
You all of course know what the 
ego is. How it is first developed out of the formless void that 
is the childhood psyche, and then, through strength of the adult 
will, through ceaseless practice of the yogic disciplines, it is at 
last obliterated so that that which was torn asunder by the 
trauma of leaving the mother’s womb has been reconciled and 
made whole again, where all is one.and one is all, where the 
twain not only meet but embrace and join together in eternal 
union of individual consciousness with the cosmic life force. 
Well, love is bound up in the workings of the ego in a funda- 
mental and inextricable way. 
A lot of people are confused by 
this point, because they are confused by the apparent contra- 
diction built into the notion of coming to consciousness by 
abandoning the quest for consciousness. 
The great yogis and 
mystics and teachers of The Way have all. enjoined us as disciples 
to abandon self-consciousness in striving for total awareness, and 
yet, as a means of gaining the strength to bring about that 
abandonment, we are simultaneously enjoyed to become more 
self-aware. 
How then do we practice self-forgetfulness at the 
same time we are asked to cultivate self-awareness? 
A lot of 
seekers have been defeated by that contradiction, and this is 
tragic because the way out is actually so simple and easy to 
see you really feel embarrassed when it finally dawns upon you. 
The answers to all the great questions are really very simple, 
just as the simple way of life is the proper path enroute to the 
Greatest Question. 
Simplify! 
Simplify! 
Simplify! 
cried Thoreau, 
and he was right. 
(cgntinued) 
> 
h
a a
ae 
tee.
or
ad
