{ 
it 
} 
| 
Community 
The Joyful Community 
Who ought to review this book is Ramon Sender, who grew 
up in a Bruderhof community in New England, and honors 
his education there. Ramon is the most thorough commune 
personality |‘ve known. A consummate tape-music com- 
poser and grass-reed musician, for five years he’s been the 
gentle fiber of Morning Star and Wheeler Ranch, two of the 
wooliest anybody-come communes ever. Did Bruderhof 
give him his skill and his joy? | now believe it. 
Ramon’‘s out of reach of telephones, so |’Ill have to make 
my own assertion: 
This is the best and most useful book 
on communes that’s been written. 
—SB 
a Petnsss Origins! 
The Joyful 
Community 
The Joyful Community 
GENIAMIN: ZABLE 
KE 
Benjamin Zablocki 
1971; 537 pp. 
$1.95 postpaid 
from: 
Penguin Books 
7110 Ambassador Rd. 
Baltimore, Maryland 21207 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Kibbutz: Venture in Utopia 
This book is a straightforward description of one Kibbutz. 
It is the history, the problems, and the moral codes 
of a 
community which began in 1920 and has grown steadily 
since that time. Over a span of several generations it has 
grappled with problems, both economic and social, which 
are similar to problems faced by the community movement 
in the United States today. 
The book examines critically and sympathetically the issues 
of poverty, marriage, education, comfort, and communica- 
tion as it has been dealt with over the various periods of 
this Kibbutz. 
While the book.is of limited practical value as a how-to-do- 
it text, it offers a long term perspective on the difficulties 
and advantages of the community way of life. 
[Reviewed by James Fadiman] 
Communitas 
This book has been around for a good while, and it’s still 
| holding its own as a lucid gathering of the elements to 
. 
think and design with on the subject of community. 
—SB 
Communitas 
Paul and Percival Goodman 
1947, 60; 248 pp. 
i 
$1.95 postpaid 
from: 
Random House 
Westminster, Maryland 21157 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
| 
oa 
eee Pay. 
SBE! CONE, Seven 
RELATION, 
TIONS 
0S 
“ 
-EDUE 
P} ARISTor, 
- 
AERIAEG ENGELS Sredten tachnologst INVENTORS 
BELGE or oe aT. 
i. 
» 
nig 
ml 
gi wENT STOR é: 
ais RUSKIAnn, 
AS 
it 
Ses, 
\ 
RAT, we 
4 
u 
% 
Rena 
we 
te 
~ ts corpgu 
StIER “~, 
€ 
> 
Rod 
&, 
19 
Eycyeuisrs and ‘mord's) RG 
RAGING CONSUME 
«2 
= 
= a1 
Fe ae & ‘i pe 
| 
i 
QS 
ae 
TMoRcAUemrraaet 
WT 
, 
Hiss 
seeders 
: 
AS 
oS, 
val 
SR 
secs 
AYA 
Ea a 
eS 
fi 
ens 
filed 
TOM LMG RECIOWAL PLAN 
FAC Anow. 
Niven 
The Bruderhof is a community unlike any | have ever seen. When | 
first visited it in the winter of 1965, | felt as if | had wandered in 
a dream into a medieval village, or into a world outside of history 
where neither time nor space existed. Never before or since have 
| felt the presence of brotherly love so permeating a place that | 
felt | was breathing it. | have visited close to a hundred contempor- 
ary communes and studied the history of those of the last century. 
The Bruderhof can be classified with neither the new nor the old. 
It is not at all a typical case. 
| present this study not as a key to 
the understanding of some larger social movement, but because | 
feel that the problems, that it raises and the solutions that it offers 
are fundamentally related to’our society’s quest for fraternité. 
The Bruderhof is a federation of three colonies located in New 
’ York State, Pennsylvania, and Connecticut. The colonies are 
known as Aofs (rhyming with the English word ‘loaf’), which is 
German for ‘dwelling place’, and Bruderhof means ‘dwelling 
place of brothers’. The total population of the community numbers 
about 750 men, women, and children holding all goods and property 
in common. The Bruderhof supports itself through a communal 
industry——the manufacture and sale of high-quality and expensive 
wooden 
toys, most of which are bought by schools. 
In 1970 the 
community is celebrating its fiftieth birthday. 
It was founded in 
Germany in 1920, and has since undergone migrations to England, 
Paraguay, and finally, in 1954, to the United States. 
It is held 
together by its common religion——a radical, fundamental 
Anabaptist Christianity. 
A most striking thing about the Bruderhof is the people. Here 
are no rugged, bearded Amish peasants transplanted from another 
age but, for the most part, sophisticated, middle-class, college- 
educated individuals. The population is highly diversified in back- 
ground——ex-millionaires and ex-tramps, holders of post-graduate 
degrees and grade-school dropouts, a dozen nationalities, and as 
many religions. Unlike the Hutterians and Amish, the Bruderhof 
- has never become a blood-related ethnic group. The community 
still has some of its original members and is beginning to raise a 
fourth generation of ‘sabra’ children but it has remained constantly 
open to a stream of new members from the outside world. At the 
time of this study, the majority of Bruderhof members were converts 
who had joined within the past ten years. This combination of 
survival through at least three generations with a continually open 
membership policy is a major accomplishment, often striven for 
but rarely achieved among communitarian groups. 
Kibbutz: Venture in Utopia 
Melford E. Spiro 
1956, 1963; 266 pp. 
$2.75 postpaid 
from: 
Schocken Books, Inc. 
67 Park Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
This is a community which was founded, for the most part, by middle- 
class intellectuals who deliberately chose to be workers, . . . Instead of 
aspiring to ‘’rise’’ in the social ladder, they aspired to ““descend.”’.. . 
This Tolstoyan attitude toward work could be evolved, it is not hazard- 
ous to say, only by romantic, urban intellectuals. 
See Epilog, page 578 
A major problem of every intentional face-to-face 
community is its “cash-crop,’ its economic role in 
the great society that has no integral way of life but 
has a most integrated cash nexus. Usually the 
mass-produced machinery. But let us mention a 
touching example of a contrary problem. The 
Macedonia 
(pacifist) community made pedagogic 
toyblocks for cash, and distributed them, at cost of 
production, to like-minded groups like progressive 
schools; but the blocks became popular and big 
commercial outfits wanted a large number. 
Macedonia was then faced with the following 
dilemma: these commercial jobbers would resell at 
avast profit; yet if Macedonia itself charged them 
what the market would bear, the community wou!d 
itself be contaminated by commercialism. 
Yet perhaps the very transitoriness of such intensely 
motivated intentional communities is part of their 
perfection. Disintegrating, they irradiate society 
with people who have been profoundly touched by 
the excitement of community life, who do not for- 
get the advantages but try to realize them in new 
ways. People trained at defunct Black Mountain, 
North Carolina, now make a remarkable little village 
of craftsmen in Haverstraw, N. Y. (that houses some 
famous names in contemporary art). Perhaps these 
communities are like those ‘little magazines’ and 
‘little theaters’ that do not outlive their first few 
performances, yet from them comes all the vitality 
of the next generation of everybody's titerature. 
problem is not enough money or credit to buy needed 
Many communes eventually reach some sort of compromise 
between anarchism and the need for structure. But a few doa 
surprising flip from anarchism to authoritarianism, instead and 
place themselves under the power of some charismatic leader. 
This dramatic reversal cannot be explained entirely by the need 
for structure. 
It very likely has something to do with the dangers 
inherent in releasing feelings which has been long repressed. 
The absence of money gives a storybook atmosphere to Bruderhof 
villages. People seem more colorful, more involved in each thing 
they are doing, because they are doing it for its own sake, not with 
the thought of some abstract reward. Even the money that does 
sometimes come into people’s lives takes on something of a magical 
character. A communal treasurer, called the Steward, keeps track 
of financial affairs and disburses small sums when needed. When 
two Brothers were chosen to represent the community in an anti- 
war demonstration in Washington, D.C., | went with them. They 
spoke to each other of what an adventure it was to be driving a car 
of their own, with money jingling in their pockets, thinking about 
what kind of restaurant to choose for supper. Children sell worms 
to fishermen along the river. The pennies thus earned become a 
precious secret anda source of prestige in the peer group. But! 
met one nine-year-old girl at Woodcrest who didn’t know what a 
dime was when | showed her one. 
Economic decisions are made by the Brotherhood or by executives 
with authority delegated by the Brotherhood, as are all other Bruder- 
hof decisions. When the new Woodcrest dining room was built, 
samples of various shades of paint were put on a wall and a Brother- 
hood meeting was called. After a long debate, no opinion could be 
reached. So they decided to paint one wall the color that the 
majority favored and then re-evaluate the situation. 
After the 
dissenters saw how that one wall looked, they decided to go along 
with the majority. On the other hand, when new curtains were 
needed for a communa! meeting room, the Housemothers and a 
few women from the Sewing Room chose the cloth. 
But this emphasis on youth and on the 
equality that exists between the young 
and the old create a potentiality for a 
condition of inequality—an inequality 
in which the young assume the superior, 
and the old the inferior, status. 
The kibbutz, it will be remembered, was originally 
conceived as a means to an end—the creation of the 
new man. Instead of the selfish, agressive personality 
created by urban capitalism, there would emerge, as 
a result of the new social order, a kindly, altruistic 
personality. This end has not been achieved. 
Instead of cooking and sewing and baking and cleaning 
and laundering and caring for children, the woman in 
Kiryat Yedidim cooks OR sews CR launders OR takes 
care of children for eight hours a day. She has become 
a specialist in one aspect of housekeeping. But this new 
housekeeping is more boring and fess rewarding than the 
traditional type. 
ARRIVAL 
If your niece is on one arm and your nephew is on the other, 
does that automatically balance it? Or do their actual weights have 
to be accounted for? If their weights have to be accounted for, it’s 
hopeless. But if you can go by how it feels, if a nephew auto- 
matically balances a niece, out of their own internal, organic, 
cosmic, natural reasons, then it’s cool and doesn’t matter if this 
particular nephew knocks me and my niece and all of us on our 
asses. 
“Herschel you stop that?”’ Marcella yelled from the kitchen. 
She was just coming out with a tray. of Pepsi Colas for D.R. and 
the kids. Herschel had started wrestling with D.R. as soon as he 
got out of the bus in the driveway. He was nine and about three 
sizes too big for his age. He wasn’t fat, he was just big and husky, 
in the mold of his father Doyle, who was six feet three. Herschel _ 
wrestled with D.R. coming through the house, as he hugged 
Marcella and gave his niece Debbie a lift and a brief ride across the 
kitchen, and then he continued to wrestle him right on out the 
back door and into the yard. When Debbie wanted to join in, 
D.R. suggested they not wrestle any more, but play the lift-and- 
swing game like in the old days. That was okay for a minute or 
two. Herschel swung from the right arm and Debbie swung from 
the left, and for a minute or two the lift-and-swing game was cool. 
But then Herschel decided that what he wanted to do was lift 
and swing and wrestle at the same time, which he proceeded to 
do by getting a firm lock around D.R.’s waist with his legs as he 
hung suspended from D.R.’s sagging forearm. That was when 
Marcella mercifully appeared with the Pepsis. 
< 
“You stop that | said,’’ Marcella snapped at Herschel. Then, 
her voice softer as she placed the tray on the little green metal 
table, “Your Uncle David is tired, honey. He’s been traveling.” 
(continued) 
177 
Forebears 
Community 
