John Holt on Hi Fi 
Don’t know whether the Catalogue is much into the Hi- 
Fidelity sound business. 
Hi-Fidelity is an imprecise term. 
It isa spectrum. But the smallest and least expensive speaker 
that seems to me to be entitled to call itself hi-fidelity is the 
new Dynaco. 
It is really quite extraordinary. 
| made A-B 
tests of it against 
a KLH—6, a very fine speaker, and though 
in some respects the 6 was better, deeper bass, somewhat 
more fullness——in other respects, | felt the Dynaco was 
quite definitely superior. 
In really dense textured material, 
large orchestral and choral passages, the sound is somewhat 
better defined. Anyway, it is a fine piece ot work——list price 
$80, discounts for less than that at some places in the east. 
Some of the best European tape recorders can be bought 
much more cheaply froma London firm called C. C. 
Goodwin, Ltd., 7, The Broadway, Wood Green, London 
N22, England. The new Tandberg 1600X tape deck which 
selis here for $250, they sell for $172. To that you would 
have to ad cost of shipping and some duty, but the total 
would not be as high as $200, which ts a useful saving. 
Feeling rich these days. Bought a couple of Rectilinear 
X speakers. Tastes differ in these matters, but | haven't 
heard anything | like better at any price. 
A portable tape recorder is a very good gadget for school. 
CONSUMER REPORTS recently recommended one from 
Sears. 
| bought one and have tried it out and it seems to 
work very well. Good sound quality. 
An English audio outfit called Sinclair makes a little 
stereo amplifier called the Neoteric 60 Mark MK II. An 
outfit called Audio T, 16 RR, Dryden Chambers, 119 
Oxford St., London W1, England, sells it for 46 pounds, 
which with shipping and duty it all comes to about 
$125.00. 
| took it to one of our best local hi-fi places, 
and they were ecstatic about it. Not only Is there nothing 
. 
of comperable power and quality at that price in this 
country, but the little gadget is so tiny you can hardly ~ 
believe it. A really elegant piece of gear. The manufac- 
turers say it has 20 watts per channel, but this is extremely 
conservative. 
: 
Best, 
John Holt 
Boston, Mass. 
See Epilog, page 699 "’Speakeriab” 
Glyph 
A big tough speaker, like a diesel truck, and tone as nice as 
you please. Built weatherproof. Easy to ship. The first 
loud sound I’ve heard that didn’t make me want to run. | 
wanted to stay and shake. 
—SB 
‘MN50 w/M Driver 
$800.00 
Defunct 
Hi-Fi Tips 
Read John Holt’s hi-fi letter, and concur with his rave review of the 
Dynaco speaker. After about 13 years as a hi-fi buff, the last 8 of 
them writing about the field professionally, Dyna is one of those 
companies whose new products | tend to trust before | see them, but 
in the speaker, they've surpassed themselves. 
How to Build Speaker Enclosures 
/n order to get the best response from a speaker, the 
enclosure needs to be carefully designed and engineered 
Dyna also has discovered that a good step towards the effect of a four- 
, 
to match the speaker being used. 
channel system can be achieved with existing stereo recordings and 
broadcasts, using only one extra speaker. Connect it across the hot 
leads of both stereo channels, and any instrument that was recorded 
out of phase in the two normal channels comes out loud and clear 
from this 3rd speaker (which should be in the back of the room). Oth- 
er than that, stay clear of four-channel for at least 6 months, until the 
smoke clears. There will be lots of pseudo-quad gadgetry and some 
good stuff coming out in a batch between'now and Fall. 
/f you have some knowledge and skill in cabinet con- 
struction, you should be able to use this book to build 
excellent speaker enclosures. 
It doesn’t tell you how to 
put them together, but it does tell you haw to calculate 
size, design baffles, and properly brace the cabinet to 
keep it from vibrating. 
The Rectilinear X John Holt mentions has been replaced by the Xa, 
which Rectilinear (friends of mine) say is better, as does the guy who 
writes their ads, and uses them at home. There seems to be some 
opinion that the X (and Xa) beat the more expensive Rectilinear IL; 
| haven't directly compared them, so can’t confirm, but all 3 Recti- 
linears sound fine to me, and | prefer the RIII to the AR-3a for most 
(not all) material — especially prefer RIII for piano, but AR-3a for 
most pop. 
Not for the novice carpenter. 
‘ 
[Reviewed by Fred Richardson. 
Suggested by Michael Wells] 
How to Build Speaker Enclosures 
Alexis Badmaieff and Don Davis 
1966; 144 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
The Bobbs-Merrill Company, Inc. 
4300 West 62nd Street 
Indianapolis, Indiana 46206 
tf | were recommending a cheap component system right now, my 
choice would be: 
Dual 1212 changer or AR turntabie. 
Grado FTR ($10) cartridge — Shure M91E, if you want to spend 
lots more. (Also, listen to the Pickerings — | don’t know 
how well they sound from personal experience, but the 
dust-brush feature is nice for people who don’t clean rec- 
ords much) 
Sony ST-5600 tuner 
Sony TA-1100 amp (may be prejudiced — had them in the house 
while | wrote ads about them for Sony — but they seemed 
very good for the money: $120 each) 
Dynaco A25 speakers. 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
— 
Speaker 
Enclosures 
Watch for Dolby-ized tape and cassette equipment later this year — it 
lets you get good quality on recordings you make at slower speeds 
(saving tape); KLH $225 tape recorder has it now, others to follow, 
especially in cassette. Doesn‘t do anything for pre-recorded tapes, 
though. 
Roy Allison's hi-fi book from Dover publications (sugg. by Fred) is 
best practical guide | know; Ed Villchur’s companion volume (also 
Dover p.b.) is best, most lucid, most accurate guide to hi-fi theory. 
Ivan Berger 
New York, N.Y. 
Tandberg 
P.S.: 
Other companies | take on faith: AR, Shure, KLH (at least, 
until many of their top brains went out and started Advent — 
now | wait and see on both companies). 
Special price on Tandberg tape recorders. 
| bought my model 64 
for $205 when Allied, Lafayette, etc., were quoting $495. 
Jf you 
buy three or more model 64's at one'time, you get a $10 discount 
on each. 
But there will be freight and duty costs. 
Write for 
information to Klaus Lefdal/Co. A/S, Bekkestua Pro., Oslo, Norway: 
In spite of authorized U.S. dealerships, | beleive they will ship to 
the U.S. anyway. 
They also have good prices on AKG headsets. 
Thorens turntables, Leak amplifiers, BASF tape, and goodness- 
knows what else. 
High Fidelity 
Pete Shermerhorn 
Communications 
? 
Aruba 
Netherlands Antilles 
P.P.S.: AR speakers sound very bass-y when sitting on.the floor. 
If 
you don’t like that, they make a good, cheap speaker stand — 
or raise your speaker on a crate (good for other speakers, too, 
with the same problem). 
! 
4 
‘ : 
- a 
e 
L 
lit 
Preener 
The best record cleaner is the Watts Preener. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Roger Knights 
and Jerry Minkoff] 
$4.50 
from: 
‘ 
Elpa Marketing Industries, Inc. 
New Hyde Park, N.Y. 11040 
Audio Cyclopedia 
The comprehensive all-purpose reference on audio 
everything. 
: 
—SB 
Audio Cyclopedia 
Howard M. Tremaine 
1959, 1969; 1757 pp. 
$29.95 postpaid ($35.95 ppd in Canada) 
from: 
Howard W. Sams & Co. 
4300 West 62nd Street 
Indianapolis, Indiana 46206 
—_ 
See Epilog, page 698 
oe 
‘0 4 Dimensional Sound System’ 
Dynaco Kits 
i 
Dynaco Inc. of 3060 Jefferson Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19121 manufactures a line of high quality and excellent value 
4] 
stereo equipment. 
Their equipment represents some of the best 
al 
dollar value in the stereo field. They do not change models very 
often (almost never) which means that parts are always available 
and that their equipment has good resale value. They don’t even 
change prices with inflation as does everyone else. Added bonus! 
All the Dynaco line of components is available as kits at substantial 
Savings. 
sms 
ca, 
Li 
Be 
0g. 
Dynaco kits are easy to assemble and all the critical work is done 
by Dynaco!. 
Their kits could more accurately be described as 
4 
semt-kits as all the printed circuit boards are done by Dynaco and 
a 
you just mount them and wire them in place. Dynaco has some of 
the easiest, plainest, clearest, most complete construction manuals 
to make sure that there is no problem in assembling their kits. 
: 8 
Dynaco doesn’t sell and leave you on your own out in the cold, 
ol 
they also provide technical assistance and service for their equip- 
i 
ment. 
| 
Ross Bernheim 
Honolulu, Hawaii 
