| 
_/ grew up copping change from my mother’s purse. In 
| college | stuck a transistor in the telephone cord to get free 
i calls. Then | entered the big time, became an Army 
officer, 
"and was trained in advanced lying, cheating, and stealing 
until finally in disgust | turned honest. 
It was an abandoned 
act of rebellion, and lo, it freed me. | was just barely in the 
| 
Army after that. 
“STEAL THIS BOOK 
_/f you steal, you're in the’Arm y. That’s my perspective. 
| 
Popular theft is largely a matter of who’s Fair Game. 
In 
| parlous times everybody is, to somebody. 
In the 1770’s 
American rebels righteously robbed Loyalists and vice versa. 
- 
|| During the same period in stable Indian tribes theft was 
\ 
- practically unknown within the tribe (encouraged some- 
| times outside the tribe). Are booksellers outside the tribe? 
_ Most bookstores operate very near the financial edge. 
| Reportedly one-third of all bookstores lose money, run 
} ata /oss. They’re in the business for love, not money. 
} | know enough now about book-making, selling, and using 
| to assert that books are a fantastic bargain, like matches. 
| Stealing books is a Jot like robbing match girls, not exactly 
a far-out revolutionary gesture, just a lazy, military thing 
to do. 
—SB 
Personalized Bibliographic Service 
| If you buy more than one book a year, you want to join PBS. 
You 
| sign up for various categories, and each month brings a computerized 
} 
printout of all new titles in those categories, including dissertations, 
| films, records and ?? 
There’s more. The good part. To order a book, any book in the 
| 
world, you just send a card or other written transmission, to PBS; 
| 
they take care of 
all the crap of ordering from the publisher AND 
| (it’s coming!) they split their profit on each tome with you. . 
practice, this means 10-15% off on hardbacks! You may or may) not 
get something off on softies, depending.on what the trade discount 
is. 
They will also.conduct a search with used book stores for anything 
that tickles your fancy but is out of print. 
After years of begging, pleading and lying to publishers in an attempt 
| to convince them that as an ally of academe I should get a 
| “professional” discount, PBS appeared and made it automatic. . -at 
a time when a lot of publishers are cutting off their discounts even 
to faculty! 
Cost is negligible— you pay $1 for the first category you sign up 
for, and 50¢ for the rest. . .that’s your entire financial input FOR A 
YEAR. . .except for’ whatever monthly bill you manage to achieve, 
of course. 
A very complete folder with all the poop will be sent (not exceedingly 
promptly, because they use 3rd class maila lot) from: 
Personalized Bibliographic Service 
20434 SW Cypress St. 
}) 
Santa Ana, Calif. 92707 
When you write, tell them ‘No. 390 recommendedsyou. 
Brian Weiss 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 
Beiisindercd Books 
| These are books ye publisher got stuck with. After a few years in 
he warehouse, they are unloaded at astonishingly cheap prices— 
ere pennies on the dollar— 
to remaindering houses. Two reliable 
| remainder services are: 
4 
Marboro Books 
131 Varick St. 
New York, N.Y. 
| Marboro deals by mail catalogs— huge ones— and a card should get 
you on their mailing list. They also insert their catalogs in the NY 
| Times from time to time, as they have several retail stores in NYC. 
Their discounts are good and their books are usually in good shape. 
A little slow by mail, though. Records-and posters, too. Prices 
from 59¢ to 10-15 bucks, depending on what they think they can 
t. Also, they sell somé books at list prices. These books are marked 
‘in the catalog by a star. Remember this, because they have recently _ 
stopped telling people what the star means— 
or have found a really 
good place to hide that information. 
Publisher’ 
’s Central Bureau 
33-20 Hunters Point Ave. 
mg Island City, N.Y. 11101 
bout the same as above— 
often many of the same books 
in stock, prices about the 
| same too. By mail only. 
hensive Edition 
phers. Revision 
Magazine subscription discounts 
e: magazine subscriptions— one should never subscribe through 
magazine itself— do it through 
Publishers Clearing House 
s 
382 Main St. 
__ Port Washington, N.Y. 
will match any cheaper offer or refund the difference. 
Write 
their current price list. 
Donald Mc Kenzie 
Berkeley, CA 
C-1007. 
THE TIMES ATLAS OF THE WORLD: Compre- 
Internews 
by The Times of London in collaboration 
with John Bartholomew & Son Ltd., Edinburgh, Cartogra- 
$12.00 /yr. 
double-page maps color-coded for elevation, with more 
than 200,000 place names 
(indexed with map references 
& latitude-longitude), 
food & food potential, 
northern, southern & equatorial skies, solar system, world 
sunrise-sunset diagram, 
117%/'' x 1734,''. Pub. at $57.50 
Publishers Central Bureau 
Wittenborn and Co. 
When it comes to buying books by mail I’ve had few times when 
it’s been really necessary. Mostly they’ve been when I’ve been 
away from New York and I wanted the book NOW. If the book 
involved the visual arts and came from anywhere in the world, 
I’ve sent the price or its approximation to Wittenborn and presto! 
They have always responded immediately and more than satis- 
factorily. They’re the kind of book store that has most of the 
staff mailing or typing— busy— not getting in your hair if you 
want to browse but always helpful. 
We’ve never been able to 
think of a book they haven’t been able to help us with; they 
are always ready to refer you to someone else if they can’t help 
out. They have always been a regular stop for information re- 
charge with us. Introducing new customers is always a charge: 
_ they get kind of watery knees as they begin browsing and Sag oHD: 
bank accounts fall. 
Wittenborn publishes free lists of recent arrivals on their shelves; 
they are mailed irregularly. They give a 10% “courtesy discount” 
with some arm twisting. They are the best source in the U.S. for 
back issues of art and architecture magazines from both the U.S. 
and most everywhere else. They also publish and/or distribute 
many small publications such as Ed Ruscha’s Royal Road Test 
and large publications such as Tantra Art. In short, it’s a book 
freak’s heaven. 
[Suggested and reieiben by ONYX], 
Catalog 
from: 
. 
Wittenborn and Co. 
free 
1018 Madison Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10021 
fX) TEACHING AND LEARNING 
AS PERFORMING 
ARTS by Robert Filliou and the Reader 
-A multi-book, with the participation of John Cage, Ben- 
jamin Patterson, George Brecht, Allen Kaprow, Marcelle, 
Vera and Bjoessi and Karl,Rot, Dorothy Iannone, Diter 
Rot, Joseph Beuys. Spiralbound, space provided 
for the 
reader’s 
use, German 
and English 
text, 
228 
p., wrap- 
pers, 1970 
$9.50 
The reader is free not to make use of his own writing space, but it 
is hoped that he will enter as performer, for this is about permanent 
creation and audience participation, 
Introductory Ripoff 
A final suggestion for other tool-gatherers who've noticed the 
high cost of books in general and reference works in particular: 
At last! 
You can make the system work for you! 
Yes, you too can manipulate the Establishment! 
How? Simple— 
through the intro offers of book and record clubs. 
Most every book club has come-on offers to make your mouth 
water—seventy-three books, all for only thirty-eight cents and two 
_boxtops. Seriously, though, there are some good buys. The 
condition, of course, is that you buy a certain number of books 
at member prices in a given time period. 
What the clubs hope for is that you stay in. What you do is get 
out. 
Fulfill your minimum obligation and resign your membership. 
The next time a good offer comes up, join. 
(It helps if you've 
changed your name or your adress in the meantime. 
|f not, 
join your wife, your kid, your parakeet.) A friend has joined 
the Mainstream Book Club eight times. 
Here’s how he does it. Their latest ad offers five books-for $1, 
if you buy four more books.in the next two years. That's 
worth up to $85 when you send it in. There’s almost no way 
four book-club books will cost you $85, so you come out ten, 
twenty, forty dollars to the good. 
~ 
(I'd just as soon you didn’t put my name down for this, if 
you use it, because some of my book clubs may get your 
catalog.) 
Detroit, 
Michigan 
Internews 
Interesting service. For 
$72.00 a year you get local 
English language newspapers 
from Ireland, England, 
Scotland, France, Canada, 
Mexico, Panama, Brazil, 
Ghana, South Africa, |srael, 
Spain, Mallorca, Italy, Japan, 
Hong Kong, India, Bahama, 
Australia, New Zealand, Isle 
of Man, Greece, Venezuela, 
and Holland 
[Suggested by Patrick Leavens] 
of the coveted Mid-Century Edition: 
121 
from: 
Internews Co. 
P.O. Box 3138 
Aspen, Colo. 81611 
plus map-guides to world climate, 
minerals, energy, 
star charts of 
lunar map, 
much 
more. 
Huge 
Only $29.50 
Hamilton Discount Books 
A good source of in-print book discounts. It lists publisher's 
overstocks and reprints, like Publisher's Centra] Bureau and 
- Marboro. 32-page Catalog is free, published six times a year. 
Address is 
Edward R. Hamilton, Bookseller 
Box 549 
a 
Sherman, CT 06784 
Government Printing Office 
ce 
The best buys in books in the U.S. is the U.S. Government, 
who prints all manner of fascinating non-fiction. If you‘re 
interested in a particular area you might as well get the free 
list of publications,in that area. Or you can get the (most 
useful, I’ve found) free biweekly list of Selected U.S. 
Government Publications. Or, for totality, for $19.50/yr, the 
Monthly Catalog of U.S. Government Publications. A//, a// 
from: 
Superintendent of Documents 
U.S. Government Printing Office 
Washington, D.C. 20402 
Books from Britain 
Larry Schwartz calls the readers attention to Blackwell’s Books, 
England. (p. 2). Your readers might be interested in two other 
book dealers in Great Britain. 
James Thin (53-59 South Bridge, Edinburgh, Scotland) is a book- 
seller dealing in new and used books. He.can provide books in any 
area— he will send catalogs on request or the price of an individual 
book if not in a. catalog— at considerably less than U.S. prices. 
Hardbacks cost 1/3 to 1/2 what they do here. Penguin paperbacks 
(for example) can be obtained at about 1/2 what they cost locally. 
You can open an account or send your personal check (Made out to 
Messrs Brown Bros. Harriman & Co.,:New York). Add 15% for 
postage & insurance (even so, still a big bargain). 
Mr. Thin deals in antiquarian and other used books as well. Books 
dating to the 16th Century. 
(The only books that are not cheaper from Mr. Thin are those 
published by U.S. University Presses. 
The service is courteous, prompt, and personal. The time it takes from 
a 
date of order to date of receipt of books varies between 4-10 weeks. 
For the “Book freaks”’: 
The Folio Society (6 Stratford Place, London WIN OBH, England) 
publishes books on history, belles-lettres, biography, poetry, 
fiction, by the world’s great authors, in boxed, beautifully bound 
(canvas, leather, wood veneer, etc.) editions. Some of the books 
have illustrations directly from the wood block or soft ground 
etchings. Presently, books average about $3.44, including postage. 
The most expensive ts the two volume Canterbury Tales at 
$8.75. Send for their catalog. Members (there is no membership 
fee) must buy at least four volumes per year. 
James E. Buhn 
° 
Penngrove, California 
Ray and Chester came back out in a minute to get the flowers 
they‘d brought in the hearse. The flowers had been delivered to 
the funeral home. Six wreaths: from Marcella and her family, 
Leonard and his family, Mrs. Godsey, the Thornton’s, Reverend 
Bagby on behalf of the congregation (although only five people in 
the congregation came to the funeral), and one wreath that was 
signed, simply, “hospital staff.’ Ray and Chester took the flowers 
in and arranged them in front of the casket, and at the ends, and 
then as a final act they opened half the coffin lid and the people 
who had gathered in the church filed by for one last look at Emmit, 
lying on the light-blue pillow, hardly recognizable without his 
beard, and in the suit and shirt and-blue tie they'd dressed him in. 
His lips were puckered unnaturally but the whole thing was so 
unlike Emmit that detail didn’t matter much. The people filed by, 
some of them sniffling, and then they all sat down in the front two 
rows, fourteen people counting children and the Reverend Bagbys 
and Ray and Chester and Mr. Olney and the Thornton girl who was 
going to sing Abide With Me. 
Mrs. Bagby played the piano softly for a while. 
e 
And then the Reverend Bagby, not a tall man, kind of pale but 
still strong in his impression, stood up and opened his Bible. 
4 
‘ 
He read from Ecclesiastes. The third chapter. Sweetly, and yet 
with power and resonance in his voice he said that for every thing 
there is a season, and a time for every purpose under the heaven. 
There is a time to be born and a time to die. 
e 
A time to plant and a time to pluck up that which is planted. 
e 
A time to kill, and a time to heal. 
e 
: 
’ 
7 
A time to break down and a time to build up. 
A time to weep and a time to laugh. 
e 
A time to mourn and a time to dance. 
A time to cast away stones and a time to gather stones together. 
e 
A time to embrace and a time to refrain from embracing. 
e 
He said there was a time to get and a time to lose, a time to 
keep and a time to cast away. A time to rend, a time to sew, a time 
to keep silence and let us keep silence now. 
Books 
Communications 
eaO
