The Impoverished Students’ Book of 
Gourmet Cooking for Free 
Cookery, Drinkery, & Housekeepery 
What to do with your beavertail, moosenose, wild straw- 
. 
berries, fiddleheads, mussels, crayfish, and other non- 
supermarket provender. 
_sB 
the ® impoverished 
A brief intelligent iednauoe to cheap 
Students é 
Book of 
v 
food preparation. 
_sB 
[Suggested by Derek Shearer] 
Cookery. 
Drinkery, & 
House 
cf kheepery 
Gourmet Cooking for Free 
Bradford Angier 
1970; 190 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid 
from: 
Stackpole Books 
Cameron & Kelker Streets 
Harrisburg, PA 17105 
What to Do with Left-Over Bread 
Never throw out any dry, left-over bread. 
Slice it, dip it in a mixture of egg-milk-sugar- 
vanilla-and a dash-of-salt, fry it in butter and 
you have French Toast. Cube it, sprinkle with 
melted butter and garlic salt, brown it under the 
broiler, and you have Croutons. 
Roll or grind 
it into crumbs, put them in a plastic bag, and 
refrigerate, and you'll never have to buy bread- 
crumbs. Or just use it dry as a doorstop. 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
GRILLED TROUT 
The smaller the trout or other fish, the hotter the grill should be. 
!f the fish breaks or sticks when you turn it or take it up, then odds 
are that you didn’t let the metal get hot enough at the onset. Too, 
: 
: 
grease the grill well at the start. 
4: 
The Impoverished Students’ Book of 
: 
Cookery, Drinkery, and Housekeepery 
Jay F. Rosenberg 
from: 
Doubleday & Co. 
a 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Either salt the inside and outside of the trout up to an hour before 
broiling, or sprinkle the inside with freshly ground black pepper and 
lemon juice just before it goes on the heat. Whole fish may be split. 
Garden City, Long 
Island, NY 11531 
1965; 48 pp. 
y 
gin 
or not, depending on the size and on your preferences. Even when 
: 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG. 
the fish has a thick skin well cushioned with fat, brushing frequently 
$1.50 postpaid 
with melted butter will add to the flavor. Once the translucency 
of the flesh has clouded to opaqueness, the fish will be ready tee 
. 
serving. 
x 
x 
Heloise 
If you can get by the “little-wifey-in-the-kitchen-where-she- 
belongs” atmosphere of these books, there really are many 
useful hints. 
In keeping with the little wifey bit, a goodly 
proportion of the hints are directed towards things that 
might not interest younger people these days. How many 
of us worry about cleaning lampshades? On the other hand, 
using a plumber’s friend as a washing machine is fine, and 
_ 
I’ve cleaned up many an oil spill with Kitty Litter. How 
. about using a sewing machine with no thread and a big 
needle to punch the holes for hand stitching leather? Ants 
won’t cross a chalk line in your floor, flies won’t visit a 
garbage can with old crankcase oil in the bottom, Epsom 
salts in beer will frost a window, a light rub with shortening 
after defrosting will make the next defrost a quick affair. 
But. . .chocolate toast? Read em standing at the newsstand. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Jay Baldwin] 
Heloise’s Kitchen Hints 
1963; 180 pp. 
Heloise’s Work and Money Savers 
1967; 241 pp 
each 
$0.95 postpaid 
from: 
Pocket Books, Inc. 
1 W. 39th St 
New York, N.Y. 10018 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
A sinembouse of now IrERy 
tor trary ausnenper 
From Maine: 
‘This is a good hint for wives who have tried to DRY 
OUT HUNTING BOOTS overnight. 
| used to hang them upsidé 
down over a furnace, stuff them with paper and the like but they 
were still almost impossible for my hunter to pull on for the next 
hunt. Then | found that if | reversed the vacuum hose on my 
vacuum cleaner (so it would blow), inserted it in the boot and let it 
run, the boots would be bone dry within minutes. Much comfort 
for him and what a time-saver for me!” 
How about THAT? 
It also works on wet shoes. NEVER try to 
dry boots over heat of ANY kind. RUINS leather! 
Iknow. 
| 
tried. They curled up and died. 
From Nevada: ‘How about licking the CORNER OF THE 
ENVELOPE instead of licking the stamp? | just don’t like glue,” 
It’s so! You won't believe it, but try it next time you want to 
put a stamp on an envelope. Sure keeps the nasty tastes away. 
Many people have asked why they don’t put cherry, chocolate, 
or lemon flavor in glue on stamps. 
Most say the flavor they taste 
when they lick a stamp has yet to be identified——except that it 
“ain't” good. 
WILD, BUT IT WORKS! 
Frozen peas can be shelled very fast with a wringer-type washer. 
Put 
@ pan on one side of the wringer to catch the peas and the pods go 
on through. You will think peas will go through the wringer and be 
mashed the moment the pod hits the wringer, but they will pop out 
before they go through. A very fast job can be done this way. 
Cooking 
Community 
Paprika butter melted over grilled trout enhances both appearance 
and flavor. This can be easily prepared beforehand by melting in 
a skillet, proportionately, a tablespoon of butter, mixing in 1/2 
teaspoon of powdered onion, and cooking over low heat until 
golden, constantly stirring. Allow this to cool, cream with a tea 
spoon of paprika and butter, shape into about 1- -teaspoon portions 
and relegate to the refrigerator. 
Let’s Cook It Right 
I‘d recommend Let's Cook It Right just for plain easy 
delicious recipes, down-home-style, even if it weren’t 
for the nutritional advice, which is also well worth getting 
ahold of. Sure, Adelle Davis is kind of a fanatic, but I’ve 
learned a lot from her in the past year about how to cook 
without destroying food value. As it turns out, this often 
means cooking quicker and tastier anyway. Since she 
explains the nutritional principles behind her methods, 
you can easily learn to app!y her methods to recipes from 
other cookbooks. | particularly like the sections on variety 
meats, which are often neglected, and on baking (though 
it’s a shame she chickens out on cakes). And it’s extra nice 
the way she watches out for your budget. 
[Reviewed by Ellen Hershey. 
Suggested by lots and lots of people. 
Let’s Cook lt Right 
Adelle Davis 
1947, 1970; 576pp. 
$1 15 postpaid 
from: 
New American Library, Inc. 
1301 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
: 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Parsnips are often disliked largely because of the abomi- 
nable method of cooking them in water, which they soak 
up like a sponge. They are most delicious if not touched 
with water after they are thoroughly washed. Even when 
they are steamed, sugar quickly dissolves out; if overcooked 
only a few minutes, the pulp becomes waterlogged: and 
mushy. Parsnips cook quickly; hence recipes which advise 
cooking them twice should be avoided. Since the sugar in 
parsnips burns easily, the heat should be kept low after 
they have been heated through. 
LIVER WITH APPLES 
Mix together well: 
3 chopped unpeeled cooking 
apples 
1 chopped large onion 
¥% teaspoon salt 
corns 
Place in oiled baking dish: 
1 pound sliced baby beef, pork, or ent liver 
Cover liver slices with apple-onion mixture; top with: 
4 slices bacon cut in half 
- 
generous sprinkling paprika 
Add: 
% cup hot water 
Cook in moderate oven at 350° F. for 20 minutes. 
freshly ground black pepper- 
FRIED MUSSELS 
- 
“Mussels, widely available in both fresh and salt water, afford considerably 
more food than a similar amount of clams or oysters because their 
shells are so thin. One of the tenderest and most delicate of shellfish, 
mussels can be deliciously cooked in all the ways oysters and clams 
are prepared. 
If you live along the California coast, though, be sure to 
avoid them when they are quarantined from May to October because of 
their eating a plankton poisonous to humans during that period. 
All you have to do to prepare mussels is scrub them well, preferably 
with a wire brush and either pull off the beard (the stringy piece 
connected to the inside of the shell by which they cling to rocks), or 
cut it off with the point of asmall, sharp knife. Don't use any that 
stay opened when handled. 
Incidentally, if you steam your mussels 
and any have remained closed, discard these without opening them, 
as the shells will be filled with mud. 
For temptingly fried mussels, briefly steam them with a small amount 
of water in a covered pot until they open. Then discard all black parts, 
and if you-haven’t already bearded them, do this now. 
Dip in beaten 
egg. Then roll in either fine cracker or bread crumbs that have been 
salted and prepared to taste. en very lightly in butter until a creamy 
golden yellow. 
SEA MOSS BLANCMANGE 
The seaweed called Irish moss (Chondrus}, common along the 
Atlantic shores of Canada and the United States where it can be 
gathered at low tide, cooks up into a delicate blancmange which is 
so digestible that many drug stores stock it for invalid diets. You can 
harvest this moss at any season, wash it well in fresh water, and then 
dry it for future use. Spread out in the sun, it bleaches a pearly white. 
When ready to cook, soak 1/2 cup of this iodine-rich marine alga, 
also called carrageen moss, for 20 minutes in enough cold water to 
cover it. Then drain and pick out any discolored bits. Add what 
is left to a quart of milk in the top of a double boiler. Cook over 
boiling water for 30 minutes.. Then strain the milk. 
Stir 1/4 cup sugar, a teaspoon vanilla, and 1/4 teaspoon salt into 
the strained milk. Turn into cups or molds that have been immersed 
in cold water, chill in the refrigerator until firm, and then serve with 
cream and sugar. A topping of wild strawberries really sets these off. 
Cooking High 
For those of us living over 5,000 ft up — BAKING AT 
HIGH ALTITUDE, cake, cookie and quickbread recipes 
adjusted for cooking about 5000 feet and adjusted again 
for over 7000 feet cooking. IT IS FREE. Put out by 
the University of Wyoming. Write for: Bulletin 427 
Write to: 
Agricultural Experiment Station 
University of Wyoming 
Laramie 82070 
z 
Tom Duckworth 
Embudo, NM 
