How To Make Booze 
Reading this book, | start to yearn for a wine cellar, 10 
ceramic crocks, cupboards full of dry and fresh ingredients, 
long wooden stirring spoons, mead tables and friends 
enough to provide for partying every night, starting out 
with the light beers and finishing up.on the floor with the 
dark wines. This book is, not counting the historical 
references and mythological stories, entirely practical. 
Written by a former(?) student of no doubt many serious 
years and some wisdom who says about the book’s purport: 
. the idea was a simple one: to write a book about wine 
making and brewing based on the thesis that the person 
reading the book could actually do it.” 
- 
He tells you the ingredients needed, the equipment necessary, 
and half necessary and slightly necessary, and how to make it, 
then the procedure to follow, how long to ferment, how long 
to age, what to do if something screws up at a point in 
between, how to bottle, where to get 
EVERY FHING the 
cheapest, what ingredients make it taste this way, what 
fruits that, heresay and incorrect rumored procedures. 
Covered are home brew, white lightening, wine, mead and 
distilled spirits, bathtub gin; at the end are remedies for 
hangovers. Drawings by the author of equipment to use. 
[Suggested by Peter Ratner. Reviewed by D. Smith] 
An Essay on Brewing, Vintage and 
: VINTAGE AND 
or How to Make Booze 
DISTILLATION | sonnF. Adams 
TOGETHER WITH SELECTED 
1970; 108pp. 
REMEDIES 
; 
ao 
ae 
fer H ANGO 
$.95 postpaid 
from: 
MELANCHOLIA 
OR 
Doubleday & Co., Inc. 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, New York 11531 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Mlustrated by 
John F. Adams 
John F. Adams 
Supplies 
Aetna Bottle Co., Inc. 
708 Ranier Avenue South 
Seattle, Washington 98144 
[Suggested by Duane Matterson] 
The Bacchanalia 
273 Riverside Ave. 
Westport, Connecticut 06880 
[Suggested by Patrick N. Baker] 
E.S. Kraus 
P.O. Box 451 
Nevada, Missouri 64772 
Burgundy 
Presque Isle Wine Cellars 
9440 Buffalo Road 
North East, Pennsylvania 16428 
[Suggested by John C. Wilson] 
Semplex 
of U.S.A. 
P.O. Box 12276 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55412 
[Suggested by Tom Wellman] 
‘Wine Art West 
4324 Geary Blvd. 
San Francisco, California 94118 
Claret 
Vino Corporation 
80 Commerce Drive 
Rochester, N.Y. 14623 
Wine, Beer and Cheesemaking Supplies 
Wine Hobb 
P.O. Box 4 
Laguna Beach, CA 92651 
Champagne 
Rockridge Laboratories 
-P.O. Box 
2842, Rockridge Sta. 
Oakland, CA 94618 
i 
(also has book Guidelines to Practical Winemaking, $4.50) 
Winemakers Ltd. 
Box 321 
Saugatuck, CT 06880 
[Suggested by Steve Sanders/ 
For the full picture get General Viticulture, p. 62. 
Each of these supply houses has free catalogs or price lists. 
Semplex of U.S.A. (American agent for a very good British 
firm) and Presque Isles Wine Cellars have very good 
reputations. 
Distillation, Together with Selected 
Remedies for Hangover Melancholia 
. members of the Vast Unwashed resort to additives—chiefly 
varieties of resins, powdered isinglass, gelatin—added either to the 
crock or to each bottle. Ineffectual. Live with the sediment as 
you live with sweat and labor. Ours is a postlapsarian world. 
Open each bottle carefully and pour slowly, and when the 
sediment begins to move to the mouth of the bottle, stop. Pour 
quarts into pitchers if practical. About a quarter of an inch of 
each bottle will be wasted, but consider this your tithe. It is 
little enough, and full of tares anyway. 
Mead may be purchased even today in this country at the larger 
liquor stores, usually imported from Denmark. All imported 
mead | have bought has proved to be quite unsatisfactory, and 
resembled only distantly what mead really should taste like. 
|f you want good mead—and once you have tasted it, you will— 
you must make it yourself. Fortunately, it is simple to do so. 
Wine, that universal beverage, became an alcoholic beverage 
almost through the back door. Basically, wine is a food, and its 
alcoholic content is primarily a preservative. (And there is much 
to recommend it over monosodium glutamate.) 
. it probably should be pointed out that equipment of almost 
incredible variety is offered for sale by supply houses specializing 
in such truck. .. Also, in most large cities there are malt shops 
which sell large varieties of malts, yeasts, and sugars, as well as 
crocks, barrels, patent syphoning devices, etc. . 
. Of course, anything 
you buy through such speciality outlets carries a premium price. 
Bottle caps, for example, cost about three times the price charged 
by your local hardware or grocery store. Malt syrup—the same 
brands you find on the supermarket shelves—cost about 
twice the supermarket price when you buy them from “‘brewers’ 
supplies.’” 
Glass (or corer) tubing 
a Robber Tebing 
Bung, fitted eS 
Wiad 
Single 4 
topper”? 
kale 
MESSE! 
filed with Veter 
More on Semplex 
Everything for anybody into his own wine, or thinking about it. 
Homemade wine is good, cheap; fun to make and drink. 
Semplex of USA is the American agent for a very good English 
firm. Most of their material is imported (nobody in the USA 
makes it) and expensive compared to English prices, but cheaper 
than available anywhere else I've found. Their service is excellent 
and personal. 
They supply everything from pure strains of wine yeast (cheap 
and really necessary for good wine) to.chemicals and incidentals 
for the more advanced freak. They also carry an excellent stock 
of books on winemaking from England, Germany and the USA. 
(1 recommend “’First Steps in Winemaking’ by C. J. J. Berry, $1.95) 
Anyone can easily make a really good (not merely a non-poisonous) 
wine for about $1.40 a gallon. 
[Reviewed by Tom Wellman] 
MONTRACHET WINE YEAST: 
A new product put out by a large company which supplies many 
commercial wineries. 
It is in active dry granulated form and is 
sealed 
in a foil envelope under inert nitrogen gas to increase 
it’s shelf life. It is a high quality product and each envelope is 
adequate 
for 5 gallons of must. Can be used for any sype of 
wine and is very simple to use because it can be added directly 
to the must without prior starting. 
Per packet..... 25¢ 
5 for $1.00 
Semplex of USA 
Bottle Prices 
At Store Shipped 
1-9 cases 
Burgundy, Sths, case of 24 3.75 
4.10 
Claret, Sths, case of 24 
3.95 
4.30 
Claret, 10ths, case of 24 
3.50 
3.85 
Champ., Sths, case of 12. 
2.95 
3.30 
Button Corker. Sanbri. Lever squeeze. 
Button drive (to be struck with a mal- 
BC-1 
4.50 
BC-2 
8.75 
let.) 
Aluminum 
Bronze 
These 
are 
beautifully 
_ hand blown 
locks from 
England. They are made 
of 
thick, 
tough glass. 
Handle by the stem only. 
Presque Isle 
Glass, Busby 
‘GLB 
1.15 
How to Lessen the Damage of Booze 
Alcohol (and speed) causes brain damage, they’re sure. [No 
certain rap on other light dopes, but those they’re sure of.] 
Alcohol robs the brain of B vitamins, and cells die. 
You 
can counteract the effect by eating manutactured white 
bread, which is fortified with B vitamins. Of course, if 
you're into juice to get drunk and a little deader and welf 
hungover, watch out for bread. 
From Jim Fadiman 
who got it from researchers 
at Stanford 
Balloon Wine 
We made a gallon of wine once without saccharimeters, vapor locks, 
wine cellar or any other special apparatus. 
It wasn’t exactly a 1961 
Chateau Margaux but it was potable and fun. Friends will ask of 
the gallon jug near your heat register, “why is there a balloon on 
that bottle?” to which you can respond with all sorts of nonsense. 
The wine will be a sweet concord sort. If too sweet you can cut the 
sugar by 2 or one cup but you can’t go much beyond that because 
all that sweet stuff is your assurance of proper fermentation. 
This is all there is to it. Thaw one large (12-13 oz.) can of frozen 
grape juice concentrate. Combine it with 4% cups of sugar and one 
package of dry yeast. Put into very clean gallon jug and fill to the 
shoulder of 
the bottle. Mix it thoroughly. Then tie a heavy (maybe 
10 cent) balloon over the mouth of the jug. Let it all stand at room 
temperature (maybe near the heater in winter) for 21 days. The 
balloon will erect and then expand. If it deflates before 21 days your 
vintage is ready. If the balloon blows off, just tie on another. At 
the end of 21 days the hooch is ready whether the balloon goes 
down or not. Crazy, yes? We got the idea from a Delmer 
Robinson who wrote it up in the 
National Observer. He said 
when he published the idea in his local paper, town stores quickly 
ran out of balloons! 
Kam 
Nevada City, CA 
THE SECOND DEPARTURE 
When D.R. got ready to leave the house again after supper he 
didn’t tell Marcella and Doyle he was going to the bus station. 
He-said the call he'd tried to put through earlier in the afternoor. 
_ hadn't happened, and that he wanted to go out to a pay phone and 
try again. Doyle laughed, thinking he understood: 
D.R. was going 
out to call up his sweetheart in California, and he didn’t want a 
bunch of prying kin folks listening in. 
“| don’t blame-you,” said Doyle. "You can’t get any privacy 
with nosy people like Marcella around.” 
Marcella put her hands on her hips. ’’! beg your pardon.” 
Then she doubled up her fists and put up her dukes and said she 
guessed she'd just have to teach Doyle a lesson. Doyle made a 
fist too, and swung it at Marcella slowly enough for her to grab 
his arm and commence to bite it. ‘I'll eat you up if you're not 
careful,” she said. 
“Not in front of everybody,” said Doyle, and he winked at 
D.R. as Marcella blushed and tried to kick Doyle in the ass. 
“You big goof, you get out of the kitchen.” 
"Ha," said Doyle, leaping out of the way. ‘See how mean 
she is, David? You're going to have to tame down while David's 
here, Miss Pritchet. Me and David just might beat you up good.” 
“Shoot,” said Marcella. "Kin folks sticks together where 
we come from, don’t they David?” 
Doyle said, "Get her, David. Let’s just beat the tar out of her.” 
Doyle moved toward Marcella then. She squealed and ran to 
the corner of the kitchen and grabbed the mop. 
D-.R. laughed and 
for a moment pretended he was going to help Doyle whip Marcella. 
But then he backed away and said he better go on and make 
his telephone call. Doyle walked him to the door. 
“You need any money or anything?” said Doyle. 
D.R. shook his head. “No. 
It’s cool.” 
"We'll see you after while then,” said Doyle. 
D.R. waved and Doyle closed the door behind him. 
PARKING 
There were several empty parking places near the entrance 
to the bus station but D.R. felt like putting Urge back where he 
had been that morning, just for old time’s sake. He circled the 
block and pulled into what he thought was the same space, but once 
he turned the motor off he wasn’t so sure that was it. Maybe it’s 
the next one, he told himself, and he backed up one space and 
turned the motor off again. This one felt a little better, but it 
still wasn’t right. It wasn’t balanced. That morning there had been 
a Fiat in front of Urge and a Ford behind, and D.R. was sorry 
they had been-moved. 
If the Fiat and the Ford had remained in 
place they would have balanced it, but with them gone there just 
wasn’t anything out there for a fellow to depend upon. When D-.R- 
really wished for in his heart of hearts was to see a sign that said, 
“This is where you parked this morning.” As it was, there was 
no indication of any kind that D.R. had ever been on that street 
before, except the memory of it in his mind which he just didn’t 
feel like trusting at all right now. D.R. moved the bus three more 
times before he finally just arbitrarily chose two lines to park 
between. 
It seemed like a very reckless thing to do, but he was so 
late getting back to the bus station as it was he really didn’t have 
much choice. 
“Wine & Beer Making 
Community 203 
