| 
F 
he Logic of Scientific Discovery 
It has been powerful magick, the scientific method. Here is 
core. When Popper takes you around an abstruse corner, you 
_ can trust him to show you something interesting that you 
can keep and use. 
—SB 
The Lo agi 
of Scientific Discovery 
Karl R. 
Popper 
1935, 1959, 1960, 1965; 480 pp. 
_ $3.75 postpaid 
from: 
Harper & Row Publishers 
49 E. 33rd St. 
New York, N.Y. 10060 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
ROWE 
PAIR, 
RENE 
LESi ORO DOR H Iny Seen oe 
iim: 
5 
|, Now in my view there is no such thing as induction. Thus inference 
to theories, from singular statements which are ‘verified by experience’ 
(whatever that may miean), is logically inadmissible. Theories are, 
therefore, never empirically verifiable. 
!f we wish to avoid the 
positivist’s mistake of eliminating, by our criterion of demarcation, 
| the theoretical systems of natural science, then we must choose a 
criterion which allows us to admit to the domain of empirical science 
even statements which cannot be verified: 
1 But | shall certainly admit a system as empirical or scientific only 
if itis capable of being tested by experience. These considerations 
|| suggest that not the verifiability but the falsifiability of a system is 
| to be taken asa 
criterion of demarcation. 
In other words: | shall 
|| not require of a scientific system that it shall be capable of being 
‘| 
singled out, once and for all, in a positive sense; but | shall require 
that its logical form shall be such that it can be singled out, by 
|| means of empirical tests, in a negative sense: 
/t must be possible for 
| 
an empirical scientific system to be refuted by experience. 
| do not wish to suggest that the belief in perfection— the heuristic 
| Principle that guided Kepler to his discovery— was inspired, 
| consciously or unconsciously, by methodological considerations 
regarding degrees of falsifiability. But | do believe that Kepler owed 
| his success in part to the fact that the circle-hypothesis with which 
| 
he started was relatively easy to falsify. Had Kepler started with a 
| hypothesis which owing to its logical form was not so easily testable 
as the circle hypothesis, he might well have got no result at all, 
‘considering the difficulties of calculations whose very basis was 
in the air'— adrift in the skies, as it were, and moving in a way 
| unknown. The unequivocal negative result which Kepler reached 
| by the falsification of his circle hypothesis was in fact his first real 
‘success. 
His method had been vindicated sufficiently for him to 
proceed further; especially since even this first attempt had already 
“yielded certain approximations. 
No doubt, Kepler’s laws might have been found in another way. 
) But I think it was no mere accident that this was the way which led 
to success. 
It corresponds to the method of elimination which is 
precise to be capable of clashing with observational experience. 
The Structure of Scientific Ber olnors 
if you want to make a scientific revolution you might be 
interested 
i in how it’s done. Another well-used book. 
—SB 
The Structure of Scientific Revolutions 
Thomas S. Kuhn 
1962, 1970; 210 pp. 
‘$1 
.75 postpaid 
te, 
University of Chicago Press 
01 Ellis Ave. 
hicago, Illinois 60637 
‘or WHO LE EARTH CATALOG 
. 
Normal science does not aim at novelties of fact or theory and, when 
ecessful, finds none. New and unsuspected phenomena are, 
however, repeatedly uncovered by scientific research, and radical new 
_ theories have again and again been invented by scientists, 
History 
even suggests that the scientific enterprise has developed a uniquely 
werful technique for producing surprises of this sort. 
If this 
characteristic of science is to be reconciled with what has already been 
said, then research under a paradigm must be a particularly effective 
Way of inducing paradigm change. That is what fundamental 
novelties of fact and theory do. Produced inadvertently by a game 
played under one set of rules, their assimilation requires the 
Jaboration of another set. After they have become parts of science, 
e enterprise, at least of those specialists in whose particular field 
e novelties lie, is never quite the same again. 
Lavoisier, we said, saw oxygen where Priestley had seen dephlogisti- 
cated air and where others had seen nothing at all. !n learning to 
2 oxygen, however, Lavoisier also had to change his view of many 
her more familiar substances. 
He had, for example, to see a 
mpound ore where Priestley and his contemporaries had seen an 
lementary earth, and there were other such changes besides. At 
e very least, as a result of discovering oxygen, Lavoisier saw nature 
ferently. And in the absence of some recourse to that 
pothetical fixed nature that he “saw differently,’’ the principle of 
Onomy will urge us to say that after discovering oxygen Lavoisier 
rked in a different world. 
_an authoritative much quoted investigation of its philosophical 
applicable only if the theory is sufficiently easy to falsify— sufficiently 
Thinking Straighter 
In an era when information is going to have 
to replace laws, it’s increasingly important to 
be familiar with the anatomy of bullshit 
(manipulation by language). Everybody does 
it, and that’s cool, it’s just when you don’t 
know it’s happening that it gets hazardous. 
This book does vivid, organized analysis of 
ads, political statements, and other bubbles 
of our day. How to build your own shock- 
proof crap detector. 
—SB 
Thinking Straighter 
George Henry Moulds 
1965; 234 pp. 
$4.75 postpaid from: 
William C. Brown Book Co. 
135 South Locust Street 
Dubuque, lowa 52003 
DRAWING THE LINE 
inking Straighter 
distinction 
The motive is the feason behind the argument; the intent is the reason 
CONTEXT 
Meaning: Quotation out of context is a fallacy when the effect of 
quoting a given statement without its context is to distort 
the original meaning in context. 
Example: Someone quotes the Bible as saying that ‘money is the root 
of all evil’’ but leaves out the preceding words, “ 
Meaning: 
Sharp distinctions are drawn where no sharp 
exists. 
Example: 
“Either you tell the truth or you lie.” 
e 
ahead of the argument. 
; 
= 
QUOTATION OUT OF 
® 
REPETITION 
Meaning: We buy or believe because we have hear: 
or the product name so often. 
Example: Radio commercial: 
‘“Get up with GET- 
the love of.” 
d or seen the idea 
UP. GET-UP’s got 
-get up. Got it? Get it! Get GET-UP!!”’ 
ATTACKING A STRAW MAN 
Meaning: Your oppone nt either (1) restates your position falsely or 
(2) exaggerates the consequences that may follow from your 
position. 
Example: (1) Smith: 
* | am opposed to capital punishment.” 
Jones: 
“I’m not.” 
Smith: 
‘You ought to be; capital punishment is un- 
christian.” 
Jones: 
“I’m getting tired of people like you who oppose 
punishing criminals.” 
(2) Smith: 
‘’l am opposed to capital punishment.” 
Jones: 
‘You fellows that are against capital punishment 
_ See Epilog, pages 722-723 
Soviet Books 
A thought. Soviet books; yes, written in Russian. One of the points 
the Soviets push with great and justifiable pride about their country 
is the easy accessibility of education——do-it-yourself or official—— 
especially along certain lines, which includes beautiful detailed 
books about peasant architecture, graphic and detailed books about 
the medicinal and other helpful uses of wild plants, and so forth. 
Some of these are set up so you don’t need to know Russian at 
all, and others a few minutes’ work with a dictionary wil! give 
plenty of access.to. They sell so cheap in the Soviet Union (part 
of making it accessible) that even with transport and markup, 
they are mostly tremendous bargains in the U.S. You can get 
them from only a few bookstores in the U.S., among them 
Schoenhof’s, Harvard Sq., Cambridge, Mass., 02138; Kamkin Inc., 
1410 Columbia Rd., NW, Washington D.C. 20009; Four 
Continents Book Corp, 156 Fifth Ave., NY NY 10010; (and there’s 
one in San Francisco, | think whose address | can‘t find at the 
moment. Also, through any one of these stores you can subscribe 
to a weekly service called Novye knigi SSSR [New Books of the 
USSR] (52 issues for $2.00!) which announces in advance the 
books that are going to be published during the coming months. 
Knowing Russian helps in making sense out of this, but isn’t 
absolutely necessary——all you have to do is Jearn a few key 
words. 
The bookstores themselves will send out price lists (though these 
are generally not broken down’so much into categories, so knowing | 
Russian is more important), and are mostly pretty good about 
answering questions like: 
‘‘do you have anything on... ? 
Similar service for other Eastern European countries can be 
y- 
obtained from FAM Book Service, 69 Fifth Ave., Suite 8F, New 
York, NY 10003. 
Hugh Olmsted 
Brooktondale, NY 
must want your daughters molested every time 
they leave the house.” 
ay 
GETTING UP 
About six o’clock Saturday morning D.R. heard somebody 
clamber up the front steps, stomp across the porch then pound on 
the door like the house was on fire. D.R. was already vaguely 
awake, but the weight of pure comfort held his body in the bed, 
and likely it would have lured him back to sleep again if the racket 
on the porch had not made him bolt up and reach for his pants and 
shirt. 
“Who is it?’ he called out. 
“It's Leonard,” came the reply. 
early.” 
D.R. said he’d be right there. Hobbling with one shoe on and 
one off, and buttoning his shirt as he went, D.R. went out of the 
bedroom and faced Leonard standing in the kitchen by the door. 
“How’d you like to work for me today, David?’’ 
D.R. had never seen Leonard as restless and impatient as he was 
now. He followed D.R. into the bedroom, then paced out again 
and walked around and around in the kitchen. 
“Ill be glad to try,”’ said D.R. “What doing?” 
“Building a hog pen. This goddamn jury business has thrown 
me plum behind. | thought if you wasn’t busy we might try to 
build that thing today.” 
“Nah,” said D.R. “Nothing up here that can’t wait to be done. 
“Good,” said Leonard. “Come on down and Roxie’ll fix you a 
good break fast.” 
“| like it already,” said D.R. 
And when he got his shoes tied he stood up and followed 
Leonard out the door. 
“I'm sorry to bother you this 
Science 
Learning 
