On Death and Dying 
On Death and Dying establishes a psychological fact that most people 
close to a dying person already know, even if they can’t admit it: One 
tends to turn away. 
Even from husbands, even from wives, even from 
orte’s own children. 
Dying people are casualties of life. 
Their dying, 
especially if it is a long, drawn-out affair, is a reminder of how vul- 
nerable we all are, and that’s something most people Want to forget. 
it’s in our process of trying to forget that the dying person himself 
| 
is often forgotten. 
There he is, lying there, waiting to be recognized. 
- Doctors, nurses, friends and relatives.come to “see” him every day. 
But what he is desperate for is recognition, and recognition is what 
we seem so utterly unable to give. 
On Death and Dying is a powerful book, because it forces the reader 
into the point of view of someone dying. Suddenly you're on the 
other side of that glass between the living and the dying, and it’s 
not comfortable, But, as Elisabeth Kubler-Ross points out, the 
point is not always to “comfort” the healthy. 
That tendency isa 
major cause of the intense psychic suffering dying people must 
endure, in addition to the physical failures that are killing them. 
This book speaks for the dying in a way they are unable to speak 
for themselves. 
/t’s disturbing; but then so is all education. Id say 
this book is indispensable for all people who are living in the 
presence of someone else’s gradual death. 
[Reviewed by Gurney Norman] 
ON 
DEATH 
AND 
DYING 
What the dying have to 
teach doctors, nurses. clergy and 
their own families 
On Death and Dying 
Elisabeth Kiibler-Ross, M.D. 
1969, 260 pp. 
$1 95 postpaid 
from: 
Macmillan Co. 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, Burlington County 
New Jersey 08075 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG- 
Elisabeth KublerRoss 
| remember as a child the death of a farmer. He fell from a tree and 
was not expected to live. He asked simply to die at home, a wish 
that was granted without questioning. He called his daughters into 
the bedroom and spoke with each one of them alone for a few 
minutes. 
He arranged his affiars quietly, though he was in great 
pain, and distributed his belongings and his land, none of which was 
to be split until his wife should follow him in death. He also asked 
each of his children to share in the work, duties, and tasks that he 
had carried on until the time of the accident. 
He asked his friends 
to visit him once more, to bid good-bye to them. Although | was 
asmall child at the time, he did not exclude me or my siblings. 
We were allowed to share in the preparations of the family just as 
we were permitted to grieve with them until he died. When he did 
die, he was left at home, in his own beloved home which he had 
built, and among his friends and neighbors who went to take a last 
look at him where he lay in the midst of flowers i 
in the place he had 
lived in and loved so much. 
He was quite aware that his days were numbered, and his greatest 
wish was to be moved into different positions (he was paralyzed to 
his neck). He begged the nurse never to put the siderails up as it 
reminded him of being in’a casket. The nurse, who was very 
hostile to this patient, agreed that she would leave them down at 
all times. This private diity nurse was very angry when she was 
| 
\ disturbed in her reading, and she knew that he would keep quiet 
as long as she fulfilled this wish. 
But |, it isn’t dying alone, it’s thie torture that pain can give you, 
like you just want to tear your hair out. You don't care if you 
don't bathe for days because it’s just so much effort, like you're 
becoming less a human being. 
: Everybody expected her to die soon, but day affer day she remained 
in an unchanged condition. 
Her daughter was torn between sending 
her to a nursing home or keeping her in the hospital, where she 
apparently wanted to stay. Her son-in-law was angry at her for having 
used up their. life savings and had innumerable arguments with his 
| 
wife, who felt too guilty to take her out of the hospital. When | 
visited the old woman she looked frightened and weary. 
| asked her 
simply what she was so afraid of. She looked at me and finally 
expressed what she had been unable to communicate before, because 
she herself realized how unrealistic her fears were. She was afraid of 
| 
“being eaten up alive by the worms.’’ While | was catching my 
“breath and tried to understand the real meaning of this statement, 
her daughter blurted out, ‘If that’s what’s keeping you from dying, 
we can burn you,” by which she naturally meant that a cremation 
would prevent her from having any contact with earthworms. 
All 
her suppressed anger was in this statement. 
Le 
Funeral and Memorial Societies 
The best alternative to expensive, hastily-improvised 
funerals is membership in a memorial society. The 
Continental Association of 
Funeral and Memorial Societies, 
Inc. publishes a list of member groups in the United 
States and Canada. 
—SB 
List of Member Societies 
free 
from: 
The Continental Association of Funeral and Memorial Societies, Inc. 
Suite 1100, 1828 L Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20036 
A Manual of Death Education and Simple Burial 
Not everybody has an opportunity to depart this world gracefully, 
‘and those that do usually blow it. The people left behind fumble 
just as badly, for largely the same reasons: ignorance, fear, a lack 
of foresight and preparation. None but the dead can know for sure 
the full consequences of the failure. But even if there are no conse- 
quences for the dead, there are enough of them for the survivors in 
the forms of trauma and ruptured bank accounts, to make this 
Manual of Simple Burial seem something like a life-saver. 
For this little manual of death is firmly on the side of life. As part 
of the literature of funerals, it’s like a living rosebud in a bouquet 
of plastic flowers. 
In 64 pages it quietly tells you how to avoid the 
ghastly system of converting human left-overs into products packaged 
as ““funerals.”’ In simple language backed by intelligent sympathy, it 
suggests ways to surround the act of passage with appropriate rites 
of passage that offer real meaning to people in need of meaning. 
According to the manual, the main alternative to expensive, hastily- 
improvised funerals is membership in a memorial society. A 
memorial society is “a voluntary group of people who have joined 
together to obtain dignity, simplicity and economy in funeral 
arrangements through advance planning.“’ The manual provides a 
list of several societies by name and address. 
|t also has information 
on cremation, autopsies, eye-banks, bequethal of bodies, and the 
business and legal matters that usually attend a death, as well as 
chapters with titles like “Interpreting Death To A Child,” “and “What 
to Do When Death Occurs.”’ 
Men choose their horrors. 
We choose war. We choose pollution. 
And, by default, we choose to make the rituals surrounding death 
grotesque. But what is chosen can be unchosen, once an alternative 
is clear. 
The Manual of Simple Burial describes a clear alternative to 
one of our chosen horrors. 
[Reviewed by Gurney Norman] 
Euthanasia and the Right to Death 
/n the midst of his terminal ordeal sustained by the hospital, 
my father wished to take matters into his own hands. He 
was not permitted. | can’t see any way that that’s right. He 
was robbed. 
The most law-abiding man I’ve known died in 
prison. 
The doctors there were friends of ours who did the 
best they could for him. | don’t believe they are wrong, but 
something surely is. Some deep fault zone in our morality 
or our contro! of our technology. Whatever, | don’t want 
that kind of exit for anybody | love. /f you want to work 
out an elaborate scheme with lethal pills or midnight escapes, 
count me in. The law is wrong. 
—SB 
Euthanasia and the Right to Death 
A.B. Downing, ed. 
1969; 206 pp. 
$2.45 postpaid 
from: 
Nash Publishing Co. 
9255 Sunset Blvd. 
Los Angeles, Calif. 90069 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Death is both a friend and an enemy. The aim of this volume is to 
suggest that we have a basic human right, in certain circumstances, 
to decide for ourselves when it is one more than the other. When 
we are confronted with this fateful choice our society and our doc- 
tors must in the end allow us; suffering in life or triumphant in 
dying, to ‘hold fast to our own discriminations’. 
Not long ago a man came to me deeply depressed about his role, or 
lack of one, in his mother’s death. She had been an invalid for 
years, requiring his constant care and attention. At last her illness 
reached a ‘terminal’ stage and she had to be taken to hospital. One 
Saturday after work when he arrived in her semi-private room the 
other patient greeted him by crying out, ‘I think your mother has 
just passed away. 
See. Quick!’ 
His immediate reaction was relief 
that her suffering, and his, were now ended; so he hesitated to act 
On the other patient’s plea to breathe into his mother’s mouth in 
an effort to resuscitate her. Ever since, he had been troubled by 
a profound sense of guilt. 
His ‘conscience’ accused him. This 
conflict is a ‘lay’ version of what many doctors, if not most, feel 
when they forego some device that might sustain a patient's life a 
little longer. Some are comforted when their action, or inaction, 
is interpreted to them as a refusal to prolong the patient's death. 
A Suggested Non-Statutory Declaration 
| DECLARE AS FOLLOWS: 
lf | should at any time suffer from a serious physical illness or im- 
pairment thought in my case to be incurable and expected to cause 
me severe distress or render me incapable of rational existence, then, 
unless | revoke this declaration or express a wish contrary to its 
terms, 
_ 
| REQUEST the administration of whatever quantity of drugs may 
be required to prevent my feeling pain or distress and, if.my suffer- 
ing cannot be otherwise relieved, to be kept continuously unconscious 
at a level where dreaming does not take place, AND | DECLINE to 
receive any treatment or sustenance designed to prolong my life. 
| ASK sympathetically disposed doctors to acknowledge the right of 
a patient to request certain kinds of treatment and to decline others, 
and | assure them that if in any situation they think it better for me 
to die than to survive, | am content to endorse their judgment in 
advance and in full confidence that they will be acting in my interests 
to spare me from suffering and ignominy, and also to save my family 
and friends from anguish | would not want them to endure on my 
behalf. 
SIGNED 
XC 
You can only love life when you can love death— 
The fear of death is the prime motivating force in 
this country at this moment. 
Baba Ram Dass 1970 
FOURTH EDITION 
How to obtain simplicity, dignity and economy 
in funeral arrangements through advance planning 
a manual 
Of simple Burial 
By Ernest Morgan 
CONTENTS 
The Significance of Simple Burial 
Comments on Funeral Directors 
The Need for Advance Planning 
A Memo to Funeral Directors 
Neods at Time of Death 
Simple Butial 
ond Trade Unions 
Explaining Death to Children 
Medical & Dental Schools 
Where they are 
Fuvaral and Memorial Societies 
ot pos ath 
your body 
Eye-Banks for sight restoration 
Howto orgedtae then 
How to bequeath your eyes 
The forms thay use 
Temporal Bone Banks 
Including alspecial 
secricewith otficiel sleerrat'en 
about 
The Continental Association of Funeral & Memorial Societies 
1968 «+ /THE CELO PRESS 
+ ONE DOLLAR 
A Manual of Simple Burial 
Ernest Morgan 
1968; 64 pp. 
$1 50 postpaid 
from: 
The Celo Press 
Burnsville, North Carolina 28714 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
How To Avoid Probate! 
It means, how to avoid lawyers, when it comes to estate, will, 
and all that. Life insurance is one way, the technique here 
is another. 
It’s useful only if your assets are like $60,000 or 
more. 
Even if your particular situation requires a lawyer’s 
help, he will bullshit you less and charge you less if you 
already know the lingo and the considerations involved. 
This book was a significant breakthrough in More Knowledge 
— 
to the Layman,Less Privilege to the Specialist. 
—sB 
9475 
How to Avoid Probate! 
ne 8) 
atten ani eeisces TAT, moma Mt rw 
Norman F. Dacey 
: 
1965; 362 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
Crown Publishers, Inc., 
419 Park Ave. South 
New York, N.Y. 10016 
ol 
OVER THREE-QUARTERS OF A 
MILLION COPIES SOLD! 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
It is likely to be a long time before there is adequate probate reform 
in America. 
Don't be discouraged, though. You need not be the 
system’s victim. There exists a magic key to probate exemption, a 
legal wonder drug which will give you arraaens immunity from 
the racket. 
The magic key is the inter vivos or “‘living’’ trust, a financial bridge 
from one generation to another. ...Few laymen know about a living 
trust. 
Indeed, only a small proportion of attorneys know about it or 
understand its use. At least half of the attorneys who do know of it 
will either deny that knowledge or strongly advise against its use, 
The inter vivos trust, you see, is exempt from probate. 
Most attor- 
neys derive a substantial proportion of their income from seeing the 
estates of deceased clients through probate. Seriously, now, do you 
expect them to tell you how to avoid probate? 
| would put the 
proportion of attorneys who know about and recommend the inter 
vivos trust at less than 1%. 
When you set up a living trust you create it now, while you are here, 
not through the instrumentality of your will after you’ve gone. 
In 
effect, you say: 
‘I hereby declare that | hold this property in trust 
for the benefit of so-and-so, | appoint John Smith as successor 
trustee and | direct that at my death the successor trustee shall dispose 
of the property as follows, etc.” 
Big Hill is a special place upon the ground, and it was an im- 
portant feature in the landscape of D.R.’s mind as well, because 
it reminded him so much of his father, and Daniel Boone. 
The 
Boone legend in Kentucky, or one version of it anyway, has it 
that it was from Big Hill that Boone got his first look at the lush 
central Kentucky plain, the fabled garden spot that had been the 
object of his fantasy and quest. When D.R. would ride over Big 
Hill with his father, his father never failed to make some reference 
to Boone and the Wilderness Road. D.R. had no idea how many 
times that might have been, but surely it was in the thousands. 
When his father left the coal country of Kentucky in the fifties 
and moved the family to Cincinnati, they came home every weekend 
for the next year, and almost every weekend for two years after 
that. And they always passed over Big Hill on their way to the 
homeplace up in Finley County. 
(continued) 
Death 
Community 
