ence Library 
PLEFE Sci 
_ After two years of looking at everybody’s nifty books, I’d 
__ 
say that the two sets of books to have around your place 
__ for pick-up education of young and old are the Golden 
P, handbooks (see p. 373) and these science books from Time- 
4 Life. They’re available only by mail, and they come one 
ug every month or so. If you don’t like what you got, you can 
ie send it back. We haven't sent any back. 
he 
‘d ‘Most popular science books are badly behind the times. 
This 
__ series puts special emphasis on recent developments. 
_sp 
LIFE Science Library 
TWO LENSES IN ONE 
each book $5.95 
: 
Bifocals—introduced to America in the 18th Century by Benjamin 
plus 84¢ postage & handling Franklin—help older people with rigid lens structure to focus at 
‘2, 
SS aS 
20TH CENTURY 
THE EVOLUTION OF CORN to the modern 
fruitful version required 7,000 years of radical 
change. as indicated by these three samples. 
The inch-long ear of wild maize (/eft)—a 
Light and Vision 
from: 
. 
r 
hughes Books 
both neal and far distances. The upper half of eo Aen Ii 
Central American plant now extinct—dates 
ik 
Dept. WEC 
lens gives slight correction for distant ve 
e open : is 
HOTArToInG E200 BIC 
itChasionlyeightrowslen 
“ 
: 
_ for close-up work; it provides the increased refraction needed 
to 
SF Laraals With Five to/aint he rnelaOn leach wow: 
Time & Life Bidg. 
compensate for the increasing 
rigidity—and the inability to focus— 
Chicago, Iinois 60611 
. 
ela 
z 
By 500 B.C., Mexicans were growing 
of the aging lens. 
four-inch-long ears called Nal-Tel (center) that 
had some 11 rows of small kernels per cob. 
Today, one of the most widely cultivated corn 
plants in Mexico is Chalqueno (right), eight 
inches long. with 17 rows of narrow kernels 
KORE, RAEROE LURAY 
WATER 
URE SMEUEE LORIE 
PLANE 
EMA BOERE ISROAT 
MATTER 
| 
WHAT'S WRONG WITH THIS PHRASE? 
At first glance, seemingly nothing. But with 
| How to Build a Working Digital Computer 
Since computers are ever more centrally with 
us, it behooves us to allow them as few mysteries as 
possible. A kid who’s built a computer out of paper. 
clips has a healthy handle. on his relationship with high 
_ technology. 
closer reading the repetition of the word THE™ 
becomes obvious. Because we generally read 
rapidly in word patterns rather than slowly 
a word at a time, it is easy for the eye to skip 
over the extra THE and register the familiar 
phrase “correctly.” 
Light and Vision 
“The computer you can build from this book will 
i operate with a program of 28-bit instruction works 
_ and has a ten-instruction repertoire. [t adds, subtracts, 
_ multiplies, divides, and costs very little. 
=SB 
WFF ‘N PROOF 
The WFF ‘N PROOF games came out of the ALL project 
(Accelerated Learning of Logic) at Yale Law School. 
This 
project was established in 1960 to develop materials to 
teach mathematical logic to elementary school students. 
‘The authors’ first principle in designing the games was 
that they be fun to play. 
How to Build a Working 
Digital Computer 
Alcosser, Phillips, and Wolk 
1967, 70; 176 pp. 
$4.75 postpaid 
from: 
Hayden Book Coa,, Inc. 
50 Essex Street 
Rochelle Park, N.J. 07662 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
See. Epilog, 
pages 704-705 
be played by children (starting around age eight), the last 
ones are difficult enough. to interest logicians. 
The first 
game can be bought separately under the name of just 
‘WFF.’ It is the best game and children always like to play 
it. In it you learn what a WFF (well formed formula) is, 
and there is no nicer way of doing that. The rest of the 
games teach you about constructing logical proofs. They 
are more tedious and a good teacher can find ways of 
doing this which are more fun. There’s no harm in getting. 
the whole set, however, and using it as long as it works. 
DRUM 
(TIN CAN) 
PROGRAM SHEET 
(ADHESIVE TAPE) 
AXLE SUPPORT 
[Reviewed by Jane Burton] 
WFF $1.50 postpaid 
WFF ‘N PROOF $8.00 postpaid 
Tac Tickle $1.00 postpaid 
The REAL Numbers Game $2.00 postpaid 
On-Sets: The Game of Set Theory $5.00 
4 
postpaid 
The Propaganda Game $6.00 
postpaid 
from: 
WFF ‘N PROOF 
P.O. Box 71 
New Haven, Conn. 06501 
See Epilog, page 724 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
- 
WFF ‘N PROOF is a series of 21 games. The first ores can 
. 
“FOOD AND 
NUTRITION 
URE SCIENCE LoRAKY 
SOUND 
AND HEARING 
The dangers of leaching were pointed out asrecently as the 1920's, 
when public-health officials were puzzled by the strange pattern of 
malnutrition in the South. Impoverished sharecroppers there ate 
poorly—grits, corn mush and molasses, greens, with a bit of fatback. 
The diet for white and Negro sharecroppers was much the same. 
But, 
oddly enough, the whites suffered more severely from deficiency 
diseases; the Negroes, also ill-fed, were relatively unaffected. The 
mystery was not solved until the scientists learned that both whites 
and Negroes boiled their staple foods for long periods to improve the 
palatability of the somewhat tasteless provender. But then the whites 
threw away the cooking water; using the so-called potlikker was 
socially unacceptable. With the discarded liquid went the nutrients 
that had been leached away by long boiling. The Negroes, uninfluenced 
by the social stigma attached to potlikker, drank it and used it to 
soak corn bread, recapturing the essential vitamins and minerals. 
SS 
oe 
And about that time Elmer the mailman came in with the morn- 
ing delivery. D.R. excused himself from the conversation and took 
his letters to Mrs. Godsey, behind the cage. 
““He’s about to miss the boat aint he Mrs. Godsey?” said Elmer 
as he traded mai! sacks with her. “Yes sir.” About to miss the last 
mail-boat out of China.” 
“Oh no,” said Mrs. Godsey as she held D.R.’s two letters up to 
the light. “’These letter’s going to California, Elmer. We can’t slow 
this mail down. Going to, what's this, honey?, Anaheim? 
| can’t 
make that out.” 
“Flash,” said D.R. 
“Flash. Now that’s a queer name. And what's this one? 
Esther?” 
“Estelle,” said D.R. ‘Estelle Adams.” 
Mrs. Godsey stamped the postmark on the letters, then sat a 
minute, thinking. “Adams. That’s not Felix Adams's girl from 
Leatherwood is it? That joined the WAC’s here while back? Seems 
like they sent her to California.” 
“No mam,” said D.R. “’Estelle’s not from around here. She’s 
from Michigan.” 
“How come you're writing to her in California then?” asked 
a 
Mrs. Godsey. 
D.R. grinned. “Well, | was thinking she might be in California 
by now.” 
“But you don’t know for sure,” said Mrs. Godsey. 
“No mam, | don’t,” said D.R. 
“Sounds like this girl must be your sweetheart,” said Mrs. 
‘Godsey. 
; 
D.R. laughed. “1 guess | don’t know that for sure either,” he 
said. 
“Well now, she either is or she aint,” said Mrs. Godsey. “Aint 
that right, Elmer? Elmer here’s a bachelor, but he knows more 
about women than anybody else around here, don’t you Elmer?” 
Elmer took the letters from Mrs. Godsey and stuffed them into 
the mailbag. When he'd drawn the strings on the bag together 
again, he looked up and pushed his cap back off his forehead: 
“It's like this,” said Elmer. ‘She either is or she aint unless 
you're an the outs, and then it all depends. Sometimes one can be 
your sweetheart but get on the outs with you, and then it’s just all 
hurly-swirly.” 
Everybody in the store laughed at Elmer then, including Mr. 
McClanahan who hadn’t understood what was said, but who was in 
the habit of laughing at Elmer every time he saw him at the store. 
“Elmer's got more sweethearts than any man around 
here,” said 
Barry. 
“But | hear there’s one he likes better than any other,” said 
Mrs. Thornton. 
Standing in the door now, about to leave, Elmer said, “If you 
all don’t quit talking about me ! wont bring you any more mail.” 
“You don’t ever bring nothing worth reading anyhow,” said 
Barry. 
“! bring the Blaine Herald once a week,” said Elmer. 
“Well you know they aint nothing worth reading in that thing,” 
said Barry. 
Mrs. Thornton said, “Elmer, if you don’t bring me a letter from 
Charlene pretty soon I’m going to wring both your necks.” 
“I'll bring you one tomorrow if | have to write it myself,” said 
Elmer. 
“I'll be looking for it,’ said Mrs. Thornton. 
“So long,’ said Barry, and as Elmer went out the door, waving, 
Mrs. Gaodsey said, **We'll see you tomorrow, Elmer. You be good 
= 
389 
Science 
Learning 
