$ 
How to Borrow Tools and Keep Friendship 
/f a man can trust you with his tools, there isn’t a hell of a 
lot more he has to know about you. How trust is made: 
When you borrow the tool, have him check you out on it, 
even if you know it cold. That'll encourage him and insure 
you. 
Agree on a time it will be returned by. Return it by then. 
Return it either to his hand or to the exact place you picked 
it up from. 
Use it carefully. If you break it, replace it immediately, 
preferably with a better one. 
; 
When you're finished, service it. Sharpen it, oil it, 
fuel it, fix it. If his tool comes back improved, he’l/ let you 
have anything he’s got. 
If you make him loan you something out of guilt, you'll be 
» SOrry. 
; 
—SB 
Tashiro Hardware 
mailorder source for japanese tools, 
~jd 
Information 
free 
. 
from: 
Tashiro Hardware Co. 
109-113 Prefontaine Place 
Seattle, Washington 98104 
Gerstner Tool Chests 
If you enjoy reading this catalog you are probably the 
kind of person that is seized by an irresistible urge to open 
all those beautifully fitted little drawers in antique cabinets. 
You can satisfy the urge in your own home thanks to H. 
Gerstner & Sons, Inc. 
They make superb wood cases that will hold small interesting 
things of almost any size and shape: machinist’s chests, 
medical instrument cases, boxes for artists, photographers, 
dental hygienists, and so on, ad infinitum. The thing. that 
sets Gerstner apart from their competitors is their concern 
with quality. You can buy a box from them that will stand 
with perfect aplomb on your Chippendale end table. Their 
cases are made of polished quartersawed oak, American 
black walnut, 
or can 
be covered with black leather or vinyl. 
Prices range from $36 to $123, and one look will convince 
~ 
you that their products are a rare bargain in an injection- 
molded age. Their service is personal and quick; illustrated 
| 
literature is available. You can get factory seconds at 
| reduced prices (less 20% plus '% freight) too. 
[Suggested and Reviewed by Dr. Morton Grosser] 
Write to: 
H. Gerstner & Sons, Inc. 
20 Cincinatti Street 
Dayton, Ohio 45407 
20” x 153%” x 94/2” 
26” x 1534” x 9¥/2” 
No. 042 
No. 052 
POLISHED | POLISHED 
ART 
OUTSIDE 
SHIPPING 
WALNUT 
OAK 
LEATHER 
SIZE 
WEIGHTS 
30 Ibs. 
34 Ibs. 
- 
The Japan Woodworker 
For exquisite woodwork and exquisite woodcarving tools, 
the Japanese have it. This is a new importing store in 
Berkeley. They have a book, The Care And Use of 
Japanese Tools by Kit Mesirow, available by mail. 
—SB 
» 
The Japan Woodworker Catalog 
$0.50 
g AGS neh ik 
Defunct 
The Japan 
Woodworker 
fine quality woodworking tools from japan - 
See Epilog, 
_ page 514 
We have personally traveled to Japan to select Quality tools. These 
tools come from Miki city in the Kansai area of central Japan. 
Miki city toolmakers have made tools for Japanese carpenters for 
over 500 years in this same area. 
- 
Japan has a,long history of wood construction and the carpenters 
perfected their craft at a very early date in history. These carpenters 
raised their craft to what is considered by many today to be an art 
in itself. The tools they used were of the highest quality and ingenious 
in design. The steel used in high-quality Japanese tools is of the 
finest grade found anywhere. This steel is to this day hand forged and 
tempered by a process that was known as early as the 13th century 
in Japan and not equaled in Europe until the 19th Century. The 
characteristics of this steel is a hard, sharp edge that remains ex- 
tremely sharp even after repeated use. However, these tools must 
be used with care and for their intended purpose as the edges are 
more brittle than the softer, less sharp steel used in lower-quality 
tools. 
MK 301 
= 
MK 
Ol 
Heavy 
duty 
Chisels: 
Sets of nine or ten chisels each, 
ranging in blade width from 1/8" to 2" wide. 
The tang is 
heavy duty and the sturdy oak handle has a steel ring to 
prevent splitting from normal pounding. 
These durable 
chisels are good for mortising and general woodwork. 
No longer available 
_Home and Workshop Guide to Sharpening 
Make a distinction. 
Call it the first distinction. 
(See p. 12.) 
Minds do this (mine needs sharpening, judgement dull) and 
blades do this. Slice: two. 
This book shows how to sharpen everything, to make your 
distinctions fine. 
—SB 
Home and Workshop Guide to Sharpening 
Harry Walton 
1967; 160 pp. 
$1 95 postpaid 
from: 
Harper & Row. Publishers, Inc. 
: 
49 E. 33rd St. 
ee 
s 
New York, N.Y. 10016 
ee 
SHARPENING 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Tool Chests 
A note on the Gerstner tool chests. 
In the old days, crafts- 
men made their own tools and tool chests. When they went 
for a job, they didn’t turn in a resumé, they hauled their 
tool chests in and the boss looked them over. On the basis 
of the quality of the work, he was hired or not. Tools and 
tool chests were very personal things. 
Max Pepke 
New York, N.Y. 
Leather Cases 
Ray Gfellor, casemaker, Polson, Montana. Mr. Gfellor makes very 
good leather pouches and case. Most of his equipment it designed 
for geologists, but he lists a number of leather pouches that can be 
carried on a strap over your shoulder. 
His cases are the best I’ve seen. The leather is very heavey and 
everything is riveted. 
You-just look at them to see how good they 
are. They just look it and feel it. 
l-ordered a map case which fits on my belt. It carries a foldup, 
pencils and rulers. 
After juggling everything it pack you appreciate 
tt, His prices appear fair: $18.00-for the case I just described. 
He has a pamphlet catalogue available from him directly 
Steve Schlossman 
Belchertown, Mass. 
Japanese Saws 
Traditional Japanese saws have a variety of forms to facilitate their 
elegant joinery. But all cut on the pull stroke using two hands (foot 
holds wood). Many are double-edged, one rip and one cross-cut. 
They are light, thin, precise, and tireless. 
To use a typical western Saw after trying one of these is to induce 
nightmares of two-hundred pound marines hopping through rice 
paddies on one foot. 
, 
Can you help locate a source of Japanese tools for those who like 
to walk quietly through the woods? 
Ken Freidus 
Warren, Maine 
P. S. I think there ts an importer in Seattle. 
Japanese Saws 
| noticed one of your correspondents was looking for Japanese 
Saws PP50, March cat. The only source for Japanese Saws in 
the East, but no mail-order business. 
In Peace & hope 
Chris Wolff 
Berkeley Heights, New Jersey 
PS Soaking an Ax handle in water is fine for a temporary job, but 
when the wood dries it will shrink more, & flying Ax heads result. 
(A BUMMER) 
Blue Ox poured himself some tea. 
“One time me and Eddie 
and Winston were stoned on peyote, out in the desert,” said 
Blue Ox. “And the goddamn stars attacked us. 
You remember 
that, Winston?” 
Winston nodded and grinned a little as he dipped a spoonful 
of honey into his tea. 
“| mean,” said Blue Ox. “Il mean, like, where do you run to 
when the whole fucking Milky Way is after your ass, answer me 
that?” 
: 
"You could close your eyes,” said Bert. 
Norton snorted. “Close your eyes. That's exactly what 
- 
you'd do is close your stupid eyes.” 
D.R. leaned across the mattress and touched Estelle’s shoulder. 
“You want some tea?” 
Estelle shook her head and flipped another page. 
“One time over in Afghanistan,” said Reed. Reed was wrestling 
with a pillow, trying to fold it so it would support him as he drank 
his tea. ‘’One time over in Afghanistan, me and Eddie had gone 
over there, to be big time dealers. We had four thousand dollars 
between us, and the plan was to score this incredible amount of 
hash, bring it back and sell it for a million dollars and retire from 
this fucking shit. So there we are fucking around goddamn Kabul, 
and who do we run into but this really spaced out American cat 
who says the best hash deal in the country is in this other town 
about fifty miles away. So he turns us on and shows us around 
a little, and tells us how to get to this other town. Of course 
we're 
all hot to go, but the thing is, his directions are pretty fucking 
weird. 
Like, | don’t know how many roads there are going out of 
Kabul, but the one he put us on was this fucking dirt trail going 
north across this totally empty country. Not a house, not a 
roadsign, not a goddamn thing except this fucking rut they call 
a road going north into the country out of Kabul, just me and old 
Eddie bouncing along in this old taxi this other friend of Eddie's 
had scored somehow and left it there for us to use because he was 
going to be gone, some shit like that, | never did understand that 
car and | was too stoned at the time to care. So anyway we’re 
on this dirt trail, bouncing along looking for this fork in the road 
see, and this guy who’s supposed to be out there giving directions. 
(continued) 
SS 
Fine Tools 
Industry 143 
