Writing and Illuminating and Lettering 
| 
Publish your own book and let the New York madness go 
_ choke. Photo-offset on newsprint is incredibly cheap. To 
make up CATALOG pages we spent $150 a month for an 
/BM selectric composer and $850 for a Polaroid MP-3 
| camera with half-tone kit, and that’s high-rent. With this 
$7 book and loving care you could hand-make a publication 
more personal than speech. 
BENS; 
WRITING AND 
$10.75 postpaid 
from: 
Pitman Publishing Corporation 
6 East 43rd St. 
New York, N. Y. 10017 
BDWARD JOHNSTON 
; 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The Artistic Crafts Series 
Printing It 
| An outline for a handbook instructing those who need printing done 
inexpensively and who want to do as much of the work as possible 
themselves. 
The manual deals mainly with printing on small offset 
presses, and particularly with methods of preparing paste-ups for 
| offset printing. The stress throughout is on saving money without 
| losing quality, and on building equipment and using hand work to 
| save on the high costs of machinery and labor. Also included is a 
brief survey of movement printers in the San Francisco Bay Area, 
| and their approach to these problems. 
1/Basics. The kinds of printing that might be needed, and that this 
| book will deal with (leaflets, pamphlets, posters, etc.). Terminology. 
| How to recognize possibilities. Content and intended use determine 
| form. Stressing what the finished product will be used for. Design. 
| 2/Processes. Offset printing in general, and the'small offset 
duplicator in particular, as the most convenient and cheapest method 
| for most work. The mimeograph machine, its possibilities and 
| imitations, and the electronic stencil device. Some thoughts on 
letterpress (more to come under “‘starting a Shop”). 
3/Camera Ready Copy. Advancing the notion that a tremendous 
amount of money and time can be saved by preparing good 
— 
pasteups, and by learning tricks that can be done at the paste-up 
stage rather than by highly paid printers and camera men. Discussion 
of the nature of “photo” “offset” and the need for care and patience 
| in producing the original, camera ready copy. 
4/Materials and Equipment. Setting up a paste-up studio. 
What you 
| can build; what you have to buy. The IBM typewriters. Art-Type 
and related transfer lettering. Typewriter correction techniques and 
) materials. 
General paste-up techniques and materials. 
Comparison 
_ of various pasting materials— rubber cement, wax, spray adhesive, 
} 
etc. 
‘ 
5/Aspects of the Paste-Up. 
The problem of photographs. Multi- 
color separations. Paste-up niceties, such as Bendays, acetate 
reverses, white lettering, etc. The use of line drawings for inexpensive 
art work. Advanced equipment, such as the IBM Composer, head- 
iiner, Varityper, etc. Justified margins versus ragged. 
6/Aspects of the Paste-Up:2. Fine points. The use of ruling pens, 
rapidograph pens, sign pens, etc. and their possibilities. Calligraphy 
as an innovative and inexpensive way to do titles and headlines. 
Lifting printed work, starting a clip file, and recognizing problems 
in using printed work. 
7/Paper and Ink. The right colored paper can salvage a pedestrian 
| leaflet. The right colored ink can make it exciting. 
Buying paper. 
| The understanding of paper sizes and cutting. Avoiding waste, and 
the uses for waste paper. The cheapest paper is not always the best. 
| The PMS ink color system, and how and why to use it. Planning 
second color printing. Color ink versus color paper. 
| 8/Binding. An area in which all time and no money can be an 
| advantage. 
The reasons for not owning bindery equipment. Small 
office folding machines, staplers, collaters, etc. Methods. How to 
sew a pamphlet by hand, and decorative possibilities. How to dress 
up stapled pamphlets. Perfect binding, spiral binding, etc. 
9/Planning Print. How to talk to printers. Know what you need, 
| and what is possible. 
“Instant” printing franchise shops and how 
| they work— why they are cheap and how to prepare for them. 
| Rough sketches. Copy fitting. The preparation of copy for type- 
| setting. Let your printer suggest Posse uses More designing. 
Printing is Practical. 
{ 10/Starting Your Own Shop. The camera as the basis of offset 
printing, and why it is more important to own a camera than a 
press. The homemade camera. Other homemade offset equipment, 
as seen in working shops in the Bay Area. What to look forin 
buying offset presses. 
The possibilities. and economics of letterpress. 
Relative costs and capabilities. Sources of supply. Suppliers as 
Sources of information. 
Included within the book will be information about the availability 
‘and prices of equipment and materials, as well as rough prices for 
building certain pieces. These costs of course will apply primarily 
| to the Bay Area, though an attempt will be made to include some 
b regional comparisons. 
Clifford Burke has been in the editing/designing/printing/publishing 
| business for just over ten years. He started Cranium Press in the 
Haight Ashbury district in 1966, and his experience includes 
| working as printer for the Associated Students of San Francisco 
|) State College just prior to the Black Student Union strike in 1968. 
| He now works primarily as a book designer and printer, and operates 
| @ casual typographic beer drinking session on Saturdays. 
Printing It 128 pages and illustrated by. Chuck Miller is $2.95 
Inquiries to: 
Book People 
2940 7th Street 
Berkeley, CA 94710 
[Suggested by Richard F. Wheeler] 
ILLUMINATING 
Writing. ltuminating and Letering 
AND LETTERING 
1906 ... 1969; 439 pp. 
Nete : The rubbing: paper 
1s held s 
the 
left hand and riot al- 
lowed to shift durin 
Fic. 107. 
BURNISHING THE GOLD 
OF QUILLS GENERALLY 
© 
For ordinary use the nib may be cut with a fairly 
steep angle, as shown 
(magnified) at a, fig. 36. 
But it is better for all 
careful work and fine, 
sharp writing that the 
angle be made 
very 
sharp: the knife blade 
islaid back (much flatter 
than is shown in fig. 
29) and the quill is cut 
quite thin; the knife 
blade is then held verti- 
cal and the extreme tip 
of the nibis cut off sharp 
and true (8, fig. 36). 
ah: 
ve uti 
II! 
oe 
NiSron of Gt lb 
forms 
soo Pen See ges 
Fic. 36. 
Printing as a Hobby 
Most books that deal with printing are of a highly 
technical nature; aimed_at the professional printer, or 
someone aspiring to be one. 
This book, on the other 
hand, is aimed specifically at the beginner with very 
little money. With this book and $10 you can set up 
your own private print shop. And if you want to 
graduate later to a small printing press, Mr. Lieberman 
explains the processes involved with that also. 
[Suggested and reviewed by Lloyd Martin] 
pipe atraudy at 
Printing as a Hobby 
. Ben Lieberman 
q 1963; 128 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
’ trom: 
mm Signet-New American Library 
1301 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, N. Y. 10019 
PRINTING) 
asa 
: 
HOBBY 
BY & 83 NS LIERE RATAN 
The easiest way to buy materials, therefore, is to write for the 
catalogue and type and paper-stock sample books of Popular 
Printing, Inc., 1010 South Weinbach Avenue, Evansville, 14, 
Indiana, U.S.A. (It has, among other kits, a special $10 starter 
pack [as of 1963] which includes all needed items which you 
cannot make or find around the house.) 
4 
MARAARARAMMS 
ANYONE 
who would 
letterspace 
lowercase 
would steal sheep 
FRED GOUDY 
ARAARAAAA 
Prated by 
THE HELL BOX w 
public norms. 
\ 
Printing With the Handpress 
A beautiful explicit book on how to hand-print beautiful 
books. Seeing the book makes you want to do it, and the 
contents can indeed get you there. 
—SB 
Printing With the Handpress 
Lewis M. Allen 
1969; 78 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid 
from: 
Van Nostrand-Reinhold Books, 
450 W. 33rd St. 
New York, N.Y. 10001 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
THE WASHINGTON. The final statement in the development of the 
handpress. Manufactured in the United States from 1821 through 1910, thousaxds 
were produced, but today they are rather difficult to find. 
Introduction. This manual is for serious amateurs and potential 
professionals who wish to operate a handpress easily but expertly. 
However, we will not discuss in detail operations which are basic 
to all forms of printing— such as design, typesetting, make-ready, 
binding. There are many competent books on these subjects— see 
the Bibliography. 
One of the supreme pleasures available to man is knowledge, 
discipline, intelligence guiding the hand to create beautiful and 
intellecutally desirable objects. This human and consequently 
expressive element is dominant in handpress printing. Such a press 
not only records, but glorifies because the hand-printed sheet 
emanates a unique liveliness and sparkle, and to the touch a 
sculptural character; it pleases the eye, the mind, the hand. 
® 
Presses. A handpress, like gold, is where you find it. Scan classified 
advertisements of used printing machinery in large dailies and trade 
journals; run a Want Ad. The best source of information is handpress 
printers. But the surest approach is through English companies 
which acquire and re-condition antique presses: 
Brett & Cox, Ltd., 
London, E.C.4. 
Cropper, Charlton & Co., Ltd., Trent Bridge Works, Nottingham. 
Excelsior Printers Supply Company and Frederick Ulimer, Ltd., 
63 White Lion Street, London, N.1 
T. N. Lawrence & Son, 2 Bleeding Heart Yard, Londong, E.C. 4 
Harry F. Rochat, Cotswald Lodge, Stapylton Road, Barnet, 
Hertford. 
Frederick Ullmer, Ltd. (see Excelsior Printers Supply Company). 
F. W. Woodroff & Company, Ltd., 137 Mile End Road, London. 
(Prices.run from about $350.00 for smal! models, to $750.00 for 
the large— FOB). 
Cylinder Handpresses. (Asbern). The E.G. Lindner Company, Ltd., 
612 East Twelfth Street, Los Angeles, California 90015 
15 Black Friars Lane, New Bridge Street, 
(Challenge). Gane Brothers & Lane, 1335 W. Lake Street, Chicago, 
Ill. 60607. 
(Vandercook). Vandercook & Sons, 3601 West Touhy Ave., 
Chicago, Ill. 60645. 
And then everyone got quiet because Mr. Olney drove up in the 
hearse, and the two fellows who'd helped dig the grave the day be- 
fore, Ray and Chester, started unloading the casket. Mr. Olney 
came and shook everybody's hand and looked generally solemn. 
What D.R. realized today that he had only sensed the day before 
was that Mr. Olney was a very sick man himself, pitiful-looking. 
D.R. shook his hand warmly today, and felt responsible for him in 
some strange way. Mr. Olney seemed to have a burden D.R. want- 
ed to relieve him of, and he studied the old undertaker as he 
walked into the church behind Ray and Chester, who were wheel- 
ing the casket in. 
Printing 
Communications 
