Aladdin Kerosene Lamps 
Coleman lamps are terrible——they hiss and clank and 
blind you, just like civilization. 
Aladdin is the answer if you need good light and 117ac 
| isn’t around. It is bright, silent, and requires no 
pumping. (lt does require some babying to keep the 
mantle from smoking up; it’s like not burning toast.) 
| British made and effectively designed, the lamps are 
| available in this country from: 
ce 
Aladdin Industries, Inc. 
Kerosene Lamp Division 
Nashville, Tennessee 37210 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
| Ashley Thermostatic 
Wood Burning Circulator 
This is 
a.unique wood burning stove. It has a thermostat 
which controls air intake, thereby burns much less wood 
|. 
than an ordinary stove. Will go up to 12 hours without 
refueling. In cold climates people build just one fire a season, 
|| adding wood 2-3 times a day. It takes any type wood, up to 
| two feet long. 
| One kept us warm when we lived in a chicken coop with 
cold concrete floors and:now an Ashley is the only heat 
| 
we have in a 900 sq. ft. house with high ceilings. 
The firebox is airtight and there is a lever on the air intake 
you can set for the desired temperature. A temperature- 
|. 
sensitive device (bi-metal helix coil) then automatically 
| 
regulates air flow to keep heat at the setting you’ve chosen. 
—Lloyd Kahn 
This is a mighty good little hard-heatin’ cheap working wood 
| stove. 
—Ken Kesey 
_ 
from: 
| Ashley Automatic Heater Co. 
_ 
P.O. Box 730 
Sheffield, AL 35660 
or: 
Ashley Spark Distributors, Inc. 
320 N.W. Hoyt St. 
¢ 
Portland, OR 97209 
| or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG ($143.95 and $159.95 in the store) 
Some of the Aladdins are rather ornamental 
The simplest designs are: 
B—165 Font Lamp (aluminum, w/o base) 
$24.50 shipping weight 2.5 Ibs. 
B—140 Table Lamp (with base) 
$25.50 
shipping weight 2.7 Ibs. 
and B—223 Hanging Lamp 
$30.50. shipping weight 3.5 Ibs., 
shade extra 
Parts: 
N-6400 Whiteshade 
$5.25 
N—103. 
Chimney 
$2.60 
N-150 
Mantle 
$1.15 
N—198 © Wick 
$1.45 
Aladdin Heater 
You listed the Aladdin Kerosene lamps in the Fall 1970 catalog, but 
not the Aladdin Kerosene heater (Model “Blue Flame” $44.95), 
which was used by Sir Francis Chichester on Gypsy Moth IV and by 
me on Kodiak Island last winter. 
Daniel Earle 
Anchorage, Alaska 
Aladdin Tips 
The lamps efficiency and utility can be increased by taking two 
steps, which I've not seen reported anywhere else “‘in the literature.”” 
First, it is not as bright as a pressure lantern; this deficiency can be 
resolved by taking a second Aladdin Chimney and slipping it down 
over the first. This increases the overall height with no loss of 
stability; it just sounds a little awkward. 
(It’s much brighter!) 
The second drawback is that the d—mned thing does get blackened 
up if you turn the heat too high. One way to clean the charcoal off 
the mantle is to turn the wick very, very low and slowly, very 
_ 
slowly burn it off. This takes, as | recall, from twenty minutes to 
an hour. The second | learned from an African teacher who walked 
into my house about three months before | was going to depart and, 
noting that the lamp was turned too high, casually picked the salt 
shaker off the table and sprinkled a little salt down into the chimney. 
The mantle cleaned itself in seconds. 
| don’t know why it works, 
all | really am sure of is that | hated him for that gratuitous display 
of African technological superiority for at least the ramainder of 
the evening. 
The second chimney, by the way, can be an old one with a few 
cracks or a small piece broken off. 
| loved that lamp, especially 
after the night | tried to catch a Coleman-type lamp from falling off 
the table. | carried scars for over 
a month. The Aladdin is a cool 
burning, lovely piece of machinery. 
Guy M. McBride 
Nashville, Tennessee, 
Architects and Hot Water 
Charrette Corporation of 2000 Massachusetts Avenue, 
Cambridge, Mass. 
02140 
Describes itself as “EVERYTHING The Architect Needs For 
Drafting Design, Presentation, & Model Making.”” 
CATALOG on request. From my experience they have the 
finest quality, are reliable, good prices on all items, over- 
whelming volume of stuff in stock. They were set up about 
5 years ago to fill a need, bringing drafting and architectural 
supplies and technology up-to-date. When you see their 
store you know they have done it. 
Landam Corporation, 2211 Broadway, NY, NY 10024 
makes and sells a hot water heater that plugs into the pipe 
very simply, and heats your water as it runs out. There’s 
a limit to its total effective- 
ness, as far as total volume 
goes, but for a campsite, or 
house, or trailer living, it 
does a grand job. It weighs 
less than two pounds, needs 
electricity, and costs about 
$35, 
T. H. Neel 
Cambridge, Mass. 02140 
7“ 
Aladdin discount 
We sell Alladin Kerosene Lamps at 30% off the 
suggested retail price, and 20% off on parts too. 
There is a $1.50 shipping charge per lamp but we 
pay all postage on parts. We’ll replace for no 
charge any goods that arrive damaged or defective. 
We want to turn folks on to a clean, bright light 
; 
at a reasonable price. Write for all information 
and prices... 
Defunct 
See Epilog, page 542 “Aladdin Again” 
Eagle Kerosene Lamp 
If you’re reading by kerosene light, and you aren’t up to an 
Aladdin, you probably could use a reflector and wall bracket. 
They come with this lamp. 
—SB 
Eagle Kerosene Lamp (with reflector and wall bracket) 
$5.49 plus shipping 
from: 
Thermwell Products Co., Inc. 
150 E. 7th St. 
Paterson, New Jersey 07524 
_—
CAPTIVE AUDIENCE 
So this is the situation in the bus as they drive out of the rest 
area: 
Estelle is asleep in the back seat, Divine Right is some sort 
or psychic prisoner sitting in the front seat beside the Greek, and 
the Greek, in charge of the bus now, driving east across the barren, 
windy plain toward Oklahoma City, is talking on and on about 
health, truth and love as destinations along the Middle Way. His 
rap began as soon as they hit the freeway again with a final lecture 
to D.R. on breathing, and the holy sound of OM, and continued 
into an explanation of the concept of karma and ways in which 
images like the Third Eye reconcile Zen and the mystic point of 
view with all modern psychology from Freud through Reich to 
Jung. Within fifty miles the Greek had ascended into a descrip- 
tion of the physiology involved in the experience of Unitive 
Consciousness, and within a hundred miles of that he had called 
D.R.’s attention to the I-Thou theme in the Secret Songs of the 
Hindus and analyzed the personal aspects of the relationship be- 
tween Ouspensky and Guirdjieff, which amounted, of course, to 
a kind of rambling introduction to the Greek’s abbreviated version 
of his own life story. 
We'll get into that life story a little later on, but before we do 
it’s important to understand what was happening with Divine 
Right as he told it. The Greek said, ‘The problem, of course, 
is that young people have grown up oriented to a Twentieth 
Century Einsteinian concept of unitive time while their elders 
remain stuck in Nineteenth Century industrial time, which is 
fragmented.” D.R. nodded and gurgled a few nonsense sounds 
But his attention was not on the Greek. He was thinking about 
Estelle, asleep on the mattress behind him. D.R. was desperate 
to get back to her. He wanted to wake her up and hold her in 
his arms and tell her that he was sorry, that he was going to be a 
lot better from now on. He wanted her to open her eyes, and 
recognize him, and include him in her world again. 
It was awful, 
feeling excluded. D.R. did not feel in her world or the Greek’s, 
and he had no world of his own to occupy. He was in a vast, 
dark limbo somewhere and suffering terribly in his mind. 
Lanterns 
.
Shelter 
;
