PY 
_ How to be a Survivor 
_ Lest the population issue become the property of the 
Establishment, who would probably blow it, this book by 
_ Ehrlich and Harriman establishes the radically-based theory 
and practice it must take to evade the ultimate population 
crunch. 
—SB 
HOW 
ee 
SURVIVOR 
| How to be a Survivor 
Paul Ehrlich, Richard Harriman 
1971; 207 pp. 
$1 25 postpaid 
from: 
Ballantine Books, Inc. 
101 Fifth Ave 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
No matter how you slice it, the resources of the planet are finite, 
and many of them are non-renewable. 
Each giant molecule of 
petroleum is lost forever when we tear it asunder by burning to 
release the energy of sunlight stored in it millions of years ago. 
_ 
Concentrations of mineral wealth are being dispersed beyond 
recall, senselessly scattered far and wide to where we cannot 
___ 
afford the energy to reconcentrate them. Precious stores of fresh 
_ 
ground water, accumulated over millennia, are being drained much 
more rapidly than natural processes can replenish them. 
DR. PAUL R. EHRLICH 
and 
RICHARD L. HARRIMAN 
A less discriminatory and therefore potentially more effective 
program might be simply to cut the income tax in half.for each 
woman for each year she did not reproduce, with a similar tax 
break going to guardians of girls who do not pay taxes. Since 
most of the poor have little or no income tax liability, the system 
would discriminate against the prime villains: the middle class. 
The effect on the rich, however, would probably be negligible, 
since the present tax structure is largely a swindle perpetrated by. 
__ 
the rich at the expense of the middle class and poor. Replacement 
of our regressive income tax system with a truly progressive one 
: 
would help in this area as well as in many others. 
| 
__ Europeans live a pleasant, reasonably affluent-life on somewhat less 
than one-half the per capita electric power consumption of Ameri- 
cans, and with careful planning their level of consumption could 
also be greatly reduced. Amazingly, though, the American power 
industry wants to increase our per capita consumption at a rate 
that will double our national use of power every decade. 
Defending the Environment 
| 
Even more direct than boycotting the bastards is sueing the 
__ 
bastards or toughening the laws they must abide by or just 
enforcing the laws they’re presently ignoring. Citizen action. 
Sax shows why and how. 
—SB 
Joseph L. Sax 
Introduction by Sen. George McGovern 
Joseph L. Sax 
S717. 255 pp. 
' 
$1.95 postpaid 
from: 
Random House, Inc. 
_ 
457 Hahn Road 
. Westminster, Md. 10022 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
: 
i 
, 
This book deals principally with preventive injunctions, designed 
__ to stop environmentally dangerous projects before they get under- 
way. 
- 
ae 
Lawsuits seeking money damages for the public, by and large, are of 
secondary importance in environmental controversies. 
Most of the 
interests sought to be protected could not be easily compensated in 
_ damages in any event. Clean air and water for public use, scenic 
_ Vistas, and the maintenance of fisheries and recreation areas, even 
: where demonstrably harmed, rarely matter in significant dollar 
amounts to any particular identifiable citizen. The effects of en- 
/ 
vironmental conditions are diffuse both in space and time, and 
rarely will a damage suit achieve the results sought. This is not to 
assert that such suits should be banned——only that they are not 
appropriately at the cutting edge of the movement for environ- 
_ mental quality. The prospect of damage suits may have some de- 
_terrent effect, but they tend to drag on interminably, with little 
_ result. 
There is no good reason why we should hesitate to adtop a theory 
of public rights to environmental quality, enforceable at law, nor 
is there any reason to think we cannot adjudicate the reasonable 
accommodations needed to protect against unnecessary threats to 
the environment. 
THREE LAWS 
EVERYTHING IS CONNECTED TO EVERYTHING 
EVERYTHING’S GOT TO GO SOMEWHERE 
THERE’S NO SUCH THING AS A FREE LUNCH 
Shake hands with tomorrow 
Be 
ae 
Minamata Disease—a neuro- 
muscular condition traceable 
to organic mercury in fresh- 
water fish, 
or fight pollution today. 
MANNENSHA INTERNATIONAL INC. ad, reprinted in 
Environmental Action. 
Four good organizations 
Four good newsletters 
Clear Creek reminded us: 
Sierra Club 
Sierra Club Bulletin $15/yr 
Mills Tower 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
Friends of the Earth 
Not Man Apart $10/yr (semi-monthly) 
Membership: $20/yr 
529 Commercial St., San Francisco, 
CA 94111 
Wilderness Society 
The. Living Wilderness 
$7.50/yr, $4 students 
1901 Pennsylvania Ave. N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20006 
See Epilog, page 467 
Environmental Defense Fund 
Newsletter $15/yr 
162 Old Town Road 
E. Setauket, N.Y. 11733 
The Environmental Defense Fund, a group of scientists and 
lawyers attacking a broad range of environmental problems 
by incorporating science into new law and pushing for the 
enforcement of ecologically sound but politically unattrac- 
tive existing legislation. | think a lot of Catalogue readers 
would like EDF. 
Its life style is not as funky as some 
ecology action groups, but it has been extremely effective 
in its short lifetime. EDF also has a newsletter which un- 
spins legal and bureaucratic webs as exotic as nature herself. 
In that sense, affiliation with EDF is a dynamic encounter 
with some of the most pervasive and influential forms of 
our civilization. 
John Woodcock 
Bloomington, Indiana 
Environmental lawyers will be interested in the 
Environmental Law Institute (Suite 614, 1346 Connecticut 
Ave., N:W., Washington, D.C. 20036) a policy center and 
clearinghouse for information about environmental law. 
The library and staff can provide facts, model pleadings 
for environmental lawsuits, and suggested approaches 
to environmental problems. The Institute publishes the 
Environmental Law Reporter, a monthly going into its 
fourth year. For $175.00, subscribers receive all previously 
published materials, 4000 ‘‘cure pages” comprising 
the basic documents of statutory, administrative and 
decisional law, together with articles and comments to 
help interpret key developments. 
[Suggested by Gordon Andreus] 
Know Your Local Polluters 
and boycott the bastards. 
“The garbage produced by an 
industry is the responsibility of that industry.“’ (Ehrlich). 
Individual buyers have far more contro/ over economic 
behavior than voters. 
Regardless of how you feel about 
the profit motive (I like it fine), most of the polluters 
are bound by it, except government ones. 
If you hurt 
their sales because they hurt your air or water, then they 
or their competitors will do anything to get your business 
back. High-mindedness doesn’t have to enter into it, just 
choice for value. 
However, beware of false labeling. Ecology is fashionable, 
and there’s a lot of pretense going on; especially in the ads. 
This is where the ecology organizations can be invaluable. 
They are best equipped to determine who the real polluters 
are (and who are making real efforts to clean up their 
cycles), and they can shout it from the rooftops. 
A compendious list of ecology (etc.) organizations has been 
compiled by Ecology Center and Planned Parenthood: 
eR 
Grass Roots 
Feb. 1970; 50+ pp. 
Not available 
from: 
Ecology Center 
or 
2179 Allston Way 
Berkeley, CA 94704 
Planned Parenthood 
482 West MacArthur Blvd. 
Oakland, CA 94609 
Consumer Alliance 
Consumer Alliance will represent the combined purchasing 
power of several million customers organized on a nation- 
‘wide basis to demand the right to have safe, functional, 
durable, and recyclible products which have been manufac- 
tured in an ecologically sound manner. 
The address for free copies of the Declaration of Consumer 
Rights, membership applications and information is: 
Consumer Alliance, P.O. Box 11773, Palo Alto, California 
94306. Annual membership is $5.00; junior memberships 
are available. Consumer Alliance is tax-exempt and tax- 
deductible. 
: 
Richard Harriman 
See Epilog, page 578 “ETC.” 
FALLING 
Estelle and D.R. hadn‘t had many times like this one lately. 
They'd fucked a time or two coming down through California, 
but it seemed like there just wasn’t enough leisure on this trip 
for any real love-making. Exhaustion was the theme so far. 
Exhaustion had been catching up to them for a long time now. 
In a way their whole experience together since Altamont had been 
a steady descent into exhaustion; a drop that gained momentum 
as they went along, like falling. When D.R. felt particularly tired, 
and dirty, and locked up in his mind, it was like he was the one 
who was falling, with Estelle being dragged along behind. That 
wasn’t accurate, of course. That was just stuff in D.R.’s head, a 
product of the same weary fever that produced the sense of falling 
in the first place. There was a way in which Estelle had already 
fallen further than D.R. had, already knew stuff that he had yet 
to learn. 
In a way, she was coming up as he went down, and 
reaching out a hand to save him from what she already knew. The 
thing that overwhelmed D.R. when he thought about it that way 
was how utterly generous that was of her, and how dangerous for 
her. Danger was everywhere, it seemed, and in more guises than 
he could account for. Sometimes D.R. felt like he had some kind of 
disease that Estelle was sure to catch if she stayed with him long 
enough. Asa matter of fact, he’d given her the clap the very first 
week they were together. As a man who dealt heavily in signs and 
omens, he had seen that as a forewarning, a metaphor of other 
and worse things yet to come. 
It hadn’t bothered him all that much 
at the time. In the beginning, Estelle had been just another cunt 
by the roadside as likely to give the clap to him as the other way 
around. But that was a couple of months ago, or three, or four, 
he wasn’t sure any more just how long ago it had been. His sense 
of time was all internal now. The only things he measured were 
miles and micrograms, and even then he had little use for Precision 
But however long ago it had been since he'd first found Estelle, 
it was tong enough for him to come to depend on her so much it 
threatened him. He hated depending on someone as much as 
that, and the fact that she depended just as much, or more, on him 
only made it that much worse. 
But it wasn’t a thing that he could choose by now. 
It was like 
there was a power over his life that wasn’t his to wield, a power 
so large and mysterious all D.R. could do was yield. 
a Ray eek ida nice play on words for you. 
have't 
< 
- 
and yield. Shield and dealed. 
I've just writen a poem,” said D.R. 
“Tell it to me,” said Estelle. 
Pastas and yield and shield and dealed.”’ 
stelle laughed and rolled on 
mae OfE Co 
Tet ea occa eid her back so she could take her 
aes he San 
rae 
When they were naked Estelle 
»R. 
or almost an hour they made 
love. 
Desperate Ecology Action 
; 
Whole Systems 
