Be Here Now 
Baba Ram Dick Dass Alpert has put together for us a very 
tasty hot fudge Sunday school (you know how hot fudge 
sundaes came about? It seems this little princess once 
demanded of the King’s cooks something absolutely new to 
tittle her jaded pallette: 
“It must be both black and white 
and hot and cold,” she pouted. Pow! They socked a sundae 
to her...) Be Here Now /s western in flavor, Eastern in 
content and sprinkled generously with the kernels of wisdom 
gleaned from ten years of dedicated nutcracking. Rum Dum 
(as his father calls him) has over the past four or tive years 
become a true disciple of Vedanta and Yoga, and in his box 
we get it all: a history, a cookbook, a bibliography and a 
collection of daily meditations hung together in beautiful 
layout. Though the book is clearly founded in Eastern 
Philosophy, Rum Dum’s background is tennis shoes and 
bikes and cars and trying to get laid and gaining prestige, 
just like all of us, so his meditations are as familiar to us as 
our own bathwater. He makes the Message of the East 
comfortable for our coffee table studies with his references 
to drugs we.have all taken, books we all have read and 
flashes we all have experienced. 
This warmth and dedication 
makes the Lama Foundation the most personal and reliable- 
seeming school of psychedelic thought that has so far 
surfaced in our hemisphere, and Baba Ram Dass shines 
forth from the box looking as though he may 
be our first 
true guru. 
[Reviewed by George de Alth] 
from: 
Be Here Now 
Crown Publishers, Inc. 
Baba Ram Dass, Lama Foundation 
419 Park Ave., South 
1971; 400 pp. 
New York, N.Y. 10016 
$3.33 postpaid 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
DO YOU THINK 
THAT WHEN CHRIST IS LYING THERE 
AND THEY'RE NAILING THE NAILS IN 
HE’S SAYING,“OH MAN, DOES THAT HURT!"? HE'S 
PROBABLY LOOKING AT THE GUY WHO'S MAILING HIM 
: 
WITH 
ABSOLUTE COMPASSION 
HE DIGS WHY THE CAT’S DOING IT. 
WHAT HE’S STUCK IN 
HOW MUCH DUST COVERS HIS EYES 
WHY HE’S GOT TO BE DOING IT 
THAT'S THE WAY IT IS 
HE SAID THE NIGHT BEFORE: 
“WELL, TOMORROW IS THE BIG TRIP. 
YEAH-RIGHT-THESE ARE THE NAILS 
WOW! LOOK AT THAT!” 
AM 1 HE WHO IS BEING PAINED ? 
NO! THAT’S THE THING. ONCE YOU KNOW THAT 
THEN: PLEASURE & PAIN 
LOSS & GAIN 
WY 
FAME & SHAME 
The Hero With A Thousand Faces 
myths and man’s dreamworld have, 
for the past fifty years or so, 
been the objects of various alchemical 
attempts at synthesis. about the time i get 
convinced that screaming green weenies have 
some larger context than madison avenue, 
' someone else denies the organic connection 
between them. 
the hero with a thousand faces is one of 
those syntheses. its about the monomy th. 
campbell traces his hero right out into the 
void. 
[Suggested by George & Laura] 
Myth 
4296 pees: 
REMEMBER 
NE 
ta iG ah 
AINGRL 
The Base Camp 
The base camp includes all the living facilities with the exception 
of the hermitage rooms or buildings. Participants in the base camp 
follow a schedule as follows: 
5:30 
Rise 
5:45-6:30 
Group silent meditation. 
6:30-7:00 
Chanting, reading aloud, singing. 
7:00-9:00 
Dancing, asanas, pranayam, breakfast, getting the 
3 
children to school, clean up, etc. 
9:00-1 2:00 
Karma yoga (work) period— assignments for an 
entire week are usually made once a week on 
Saturday morning. 
12:00-2:00 
Bringing food and supplies to hermit and preparing 
and having prasad (consecrated food), taken in 
: 
silence. Then rest or relaxation and clean-up. 
2:00-4:00 
Karma yoga period. 
4:00-5:30 
Group study, and exercises in consciousness. 
5:30-6:30 
Pranayam, asanas, preparing evening food, etc. 
6:30-8:00 
Evening prasad (silently) plus clean-up and 
— 
relaxation, reading, etc. 
/ 
8:00-9:00 
Group meditation and chanting and singing. 
By assigning the karma yoga tasks over a period of a week you can 
use the karma yoga periods in a fluid fashion. One person’s karma 
yoga, for example, might include milking goats, making cheese, 
weaving, picking the kids up at school, getting the car fixed, etc. 
Also a person may design his schedule to use a few of the morning 
karma yoga periods for personal study or meditation. The use of 
these periods is largely dependent upon the number of participants, 
and the amount of man-hours required for right livelihood and 
community maintenance. Time not spent in fulfilling assignments 
should be used on inner work (study, meditation, asanas, singing 
kirtan). 
Most activities can be carried on in silence. Groups working together 
on a shared project such as gardening, building, etc. can either do 
these tasks in silence or do mantra during the work. Silence is an 
important part of the work. Formal discussions at the base camp 
of the hermitage experiences of the participants can be useful. 
Gossip, small talk, and hanging out. 
. .have a limited value in breaking 
through the illusion. 
It is well to realize that the relationships in this community are 
not the dominant concern. 
Ideally, personality falls away in the 
common endeavor. 
|f-you want at all costs to hold onto your 
personality, don’t join a spiritual community. 
. .because no one is 
going to be interested. Interpersonal matters are dealt with only 
to the extent that they are disruptive (i.e., capture the consciousness 
of the group or some participants.) Such matters can be dealt with 
at a group meeting if-necessary. . .but the moment the group gets 
bogged down in heavy melodrama. . .it is well to call a meditation 
~ interlude until everyone can find a center again. Melodrama sucks 
us in again and again, but diminishes in power if actively thwarted 
The Hero With A Thousand Faces 
Joseph Campbell 
1979, 70; 416 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
Princeton UniversitwPress 
Princeton, NJ 08540 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
> I'dsay, “You know, | really feel ctumby, my hips are-hurting. « .”” 
‘was my whole trip— emotions ,and past experiences, and future — 
‘brought to pass within the labyrinth that we all know and visit 
h 
THIS WHOLE TRIP T™ te ABOUT IS PRAUGHT 
THE MOST EXQUISITE PARADOX 
AS SOON AS YOU GIVE IT ALL UP 
YOU CAN HAVE IT ALL 
WHAT A WEIRD THING! 
LONG AS YOU 
ne 
ASOURE ON A Yay he 
. 
_ i
YOURE ONA TRIMAL TRIP PTHAT S GOING TO LAST — 
i 
?MAYBE WHAT? 60 —- 
~MAYBE 80 YEARS 
4 
AND PULL WITH FEAR OF ITS END 
> 
i
TRYING TO MAKE ITS OWN ETERNITY. | 
|) 
WELL: 
IFT AMNOT SPEAKING 
IF ‘TAM NOT WHAT'T THOUGHT TWAS = 
HOW DID‘T GET INTO THIS. 
S| 
“Did | ever tell you about the time that Tim and |. 
And he'd 
say, “Don’t think about the past. Just be here now.’ 
Silence. 
And I'd say, “How fons do you think we're going to be on this 
trip?” 
> 
And he‘d'say, “Don’t think about the future. Just be here now.” 
“Emotions are like waves. Watch them disappear in the distance 
on the vast calm ocean.” 
He had just sort of wiped out my whole game. That was it— that 
— 
plans. | was, after all, a great story teller. 
So_we were silent. There was nothing to say. 
It is the business of mythology proper, and of the fairy tale, to 
reveal the specific dangers and techniques of the dark interior . 
way from tragedy to comedy. Hence the incidents are 
fantastic and “‘unreal’’: they represent psychological, not physical 
triumphs. Even when the legend is of an actual historical personage, 
the deeds of victory are rendered, not in lifelike, but in dreamlike 
figurations; for the point is not that such-and-such could be done 
— 
On earth, this other, more important, primary thing had to be 
in our dreams. The passage of the mythological hero may be over- 
ground, incidentally; fundamentally it is inward—into depths 
where obscure resistances are overcome, and long lost, forgotten 
powers are revivified, to be made available for the transfiguration — 
of the world. This deed accomplished, life no longer suffers 
a 
hopelessly under the terrible mutilations of ubiquitous disaster, 
battered by time, hideous throughout space; but with its horror — 
visible still, its cries of anguish still tumultuous, it becomes 
Y 
penetrated by an all-suffusing, all-sustaining love, and a knowledge | 
of its own unconquered power. Something of the light that 
— 
blazes invisible within the abysses of its normally opaque 
materiality breaks forth, with an increasing uproar. The dreadful 
— 
mutilations are then seen as shadows, only, of an immanent, 
imperishable eternity; time yields to glory; and the world sings 
with the prodigious, angelic, but perhaps finally monotonous, 
siren music of the spheres. Like happy families, the myths and. the 
~ 
worlds redeemed are all alike. 
: 
