The Natural Way to Draw 
Drawing is a deeper and wider kind of writing. It’s 
better communication in many ways than writing, 
and it’s much closer to your mind. (The same goes 
for music and speech.) 
This classic work by an outstanding art teacher is 
not only the best how-to book on drawing, it is the 
best how-to book we’ve seen on any subject. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Roy Sebern] 
The job of the teacher, as | see it, is to teach students, not 
how to draw, but how to learn to draw. 
You SHOULD DRAW, NOT WHAT THE THING LOOKS LIKE, NOT EVEN WHAT 
iP IS, BUT WHAT IT Is DOING. Feel how the figure lifts or droops — pushes 
forward here — pulls back there — pushes out here — drops down easily 
there. Suppose that the model takes the pose of a fighter with fists clenched 
and jaw thrust forward angrily. Try to draw the actual thrust of the jaw, 
the clenching of the hand. A drawing of prize fighters should show the 
push, from foot to fist, behind their blows that makes them hurt. 
In contour drawing you touch the edge of the 
In gesture drawing you feel the movement of 
the whole. 
THE SOONER YOU MAKE YOUR FIRST FIVE THOUSAND 
MISTAKES, THE SOONER YOU WILL BE ABLE TO CORRECT 
THEM. 
Art and Illusion 
So much art criticism is so much a vapid waste of time that 
a book like this one is thoroughly a shock. Every page 
yields fresh information (did you know that the comic 
_ strip was singlehandedly invented by a Swiss gent named 
Topfler in the. 1820's?) and worthwhile hypotheses 
about how art and artists gradually teach themselves 
energies of effect. Furthermore the book is a bargain— 
it has 319 fine illustrations, 18 in color. 
—SB 
Art and Illusion 
E. H. Gombrich 
1960, 1961; 466 pp. 
$6.45 
postpaid 
from: 
Princeton University Press 
Princeton, New Jersey 08540 
E. H. 
GOMBRICH 
ART AND ILLUSION 
A Study in the Psychology of Pictorial Representation 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The A. W, Mellon Lectures in the Fine Arts, 1956 
Bollingen 
Series / 
Princeton 
Image 
Communications 
The first exercise, which you are about to attempt, is planned 
consciously to bring into play your sense of touch and to 
coordinate it with your sense of sight for the purpose of 
drawing. 
Look at the edge of your chair. Then rub your finger against 
it many times, sometimes slowly and sometimes quickly. 
Compare the idea of the edge which the touch of your finger 
gives with the idea you had from merely looking at it. In 
this exercise you will try to combine both those experiences 
—that of touching with that of simply looking. 
See Epilog, page 689 
The Natural Way to Draw 
Kimon Nicolaides 
1941; 221 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid 
from: 
- 
Houghton Mifflin Compan 
Wayside Road 
Burlington, Massachusetts 01803 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
at gesture drawing is like scribbling rather 
than like printing carefully — think more 
Exercise 1: Contour Drawing 
SOs mesg ae 8 epee he Ha est 
Materials: 
_Use a 3B (medium soft) drawing pencil 
with a very fine point (sharpened on sandpaper) and 
a piece of cream-colored manila wrapping paper about 
fifteen by twenty inches in size. Manila paper usually 
comes in large sheets which may be cut into four pieces 
of that size. You may use, also, the kind sold as 
“shelf paper’’ provided it is not glazed. Fasten the paper 
with large paper clips to a piece of prestwood or a stiff 
piece of cardboard. Wear an eyeshade, Do not use an 
eraser until you come to Exercise 28. 
Sit close to the model or object which you intend to draw and 
lean forward in your chair. Focus your eyes on some point— 
any point will do—along the contour of the model. (The 
contour approximates what is usually spoken of as the outline 
or edge.) Place the point of your. pencil on the paper. 
{!magine 
that your pencil point is touching the model instead of the 
paper. Without taking your eyes off the model, wait until you 
are convinced that the pencil is touching that point on the 
model upon which your eyes are fastened. 
Then move your eye slowly along the contour of the model and 
move the pencil slowly along the paper. As you do this, keep 
| 
the conviction that the pencil point is actually touching the 
contour. 
Be guided more by the sense of touch than by sight. 
THIS MEANS THAT YOU MUST DRAW WITHOUT LOOK- 
ING AT THE PAPER, continuously looking at the model. 
Exactly coordinate the pencil with the eye. Your eye may 
be tempted at first to move faster than your pencil, but do 
not let it get ahead. Consider only the point that you are 
working on at the moment with no regard for any other 
part of the figure. 
Only in the realm of dreams has the artist found full freedom 
to create. 
| think the difference is well summed up in the 
anecdote about Matisse. When a lady visiting his studio said, 
“But surely, the arm of this woman is much too long,” the 
artist replied politely, ‘Madame, you are mistaken.. This is 
not a woman, this is a picture.”’ 
f AN) 
i 
: 
! 
But no tradition of art had a deeper understanding of what | have 
called the “‘screen’’ than the art of the Far East. Chinese art 
theory discusses the power of expressing through absence of 
brush and ink. ‘Figures, even though painted without eyes, must 
seem to look; without ears, must seem to listen. 
. 
. 
. There are 
things which ten hundred brush-strokes cannot depict but which 
can be captured by a few simple strokes if they are right. That 
is truly giving expression to the invisible.’ [170] The maxim 
into which these observations were condensed might serve as 
a motto of this chapter: 
“‘i tao pi pu tao—idea present, brush 
may be spared performance.” 
- experience must be an illusion, we cannot, strictly speaking, watch 
TWO TYPES OF STUDY. The way to learn to draw is by 
a 
drawing. People who make art must not merely know about 
it. For an artist, the important thing is not how much he 
knows, but how much he can do, A scientist may know all 
about aeronautics without being able to handle an airplane. 
It is only by flying that he can develop the sense for flying. 
|f | were asked what one thing more than any other would 
teach a student how to draw, | should answer, ‘‘Drawing— 
incessantly, furiously, painstakingly drawing.” 
Probably you realize already that contour drawing is of the 
type which is to be done “‘painstakingly’’. On the other 
hand, gesture drawing, which you will begin today, is to be 
done ‘‘furiously’’. In order to concentrate, one can act 
furiously over a short space of time, or one can work with 
calm determination, quietly, over a long-extended period. 
In learning to draw, both kinds of effort.are necessary and 
the one makes a precise balance for the other. In long studies 
you will develop an understanding of the structure of the 
model, how it is made—by which | mean something more 
fundamental than anatomy alone. In quick studies you will 
consider the function of action, life, or expression—|I call 
it gesture. 
Some students become self-conscious and confused as soon as they 
attempt to draw a face. Don’t think of the head or the face as 
something different from any other part of the body. Draw it as 
_ 
you would draw a hand or an elbow or a knee. 
Don’t try to “get a likeness’’ of your model. The tendency of the 
beginner is to separate likenesses from drawing. Draw strangers if 
you can because you care less what they look like. Do not draw 
members of your family—. or at least do not show them your 
drawings— because their one reaction will be to look for the 
likeness. Keep it clearly in-:mind that YOU ARE NOT MAKING A 
PORTRAIT. You are making a study of a head. 
CHANGING THE POINT OF VIEW. 
It is well known that the 
printed or spoken word has a tendency to take on authority 
once it is printed of spoken. To get away from it almost 
takes a revolution. The same thing is true with your own 
drawing. The very mistakes you make, as they linger on 
the paper, have this tendency to become authoritative. To 
combat it, move about the room during the long pose, 
making occasional scribbled drawings. A thing is factually 
the same from whatever point of view you see it, but seeing 
it from different points of view will illuminate the meaning 
~ 
, of the forms and lines you have been looking at. 
; 
Whenever you are uncertain as to how to begin a study 
think of the movement. 
STEINBERG: 
From “The 
Passport” 
202 
Max Friedlander tells the revealing story of the bank official 
who insisted that German bank notes should retain a portrait 
head in their design. Nothing, he said, was harder for the 
forger to imitate than precisely the right expression of these 
~ 
artistically quite insignificant heads, nor was there a quicker 
way of discovering a suspect note than simply observing the 
way these faces look at you. 
Rabbit or duck? 
True, we can switch from one reading to another with increasing 
rapidity; we will also ‘’remember” the rabbit while we see the 
duck, but the more closely we watch ourselves, the more certainly 
we will discover that we cannot experience alternative readings at. 
the same time. 
Illusion, we will find, is hard to describe or analyze, 
for though we may be intellectually aware of the fact that any given 
ourselves having an illusion. 
Sap Sea Le 
| 
Hy 
| 
i 
1 
1 
A 
| 
| 
| 
{ 
| 
