eT 
Architectural Design 
This is the only architectural magazine we've seen that 
consistently carries substantial new information, as distinct 
‘from the stylistic eyewash characteristic of most architecture 
journals. 
After a year of watching and using AD, It’s clear that this is 
much more than an architectural magazine. 
It prints lots of 
news of American creative doings months before any 
U. S. 
publication. 
/ts coverage of developments in cybernetics, 
structure systems, philosophy, use trends (e.g., communes), 
etc. is extraordinary. 
—SB 
Guadi’s Parque Guell—“one of the 
most cybernetic structures in 
existence.” 
Peter Brookes/Dad 
See Epilog, page 508 “Freedom to Build” 
THE HIGH CAPITAL COST, 
LOW RUNNING/OPERATING 
Architectural Design 
$34.00 /yr (monthly) 
from: 
Architectural Design 
26 Bloomsbury Way 
London W.C. 1A, England 
T REPRESENT 
COST SITUATION 
and could account for the evolutionary and self-organizing 
stressed most. 
.As a combined sensor/effector device the possibilities are even more 
exciting. The most obvious and immediately valuable—if vaguely 
banal—proposition is that of producing a compression structure 
with infinite stiffness. 
Beyond Habitat 
We've carried Buckminster Fuller, Paolo Soleri, and 
Christopher Alexander, so here’s Moshe Satdie’s first book. 
His first project, Habitat, was a major attraction at Expo 
‘67 In Montreal and established him as a boy wonder in a 
' field that usually requires decades of tooth toughening 
to succeed. The book is interesting for his ideas of high-rise 
village life, but even more valuable to the budding genius 
is his account of the political and economic pressures that 
shape a project and squash the designer and betray that 
original sweet idea. 
(For.an even more revealing perspective on Big Project 
success, try Albert Spear’s \Inside the Third Reich. Spear, 
at 29, was Hitler’s architect. | used to think The Fuhrer was 
a frustrated architect. Turns out he was a successful one.) 
Safdie’s 
Student Union for San Francisco State College was 
initiated, guided, and funded by the students. The building 
was stopped by asshole trustees. 
—SB 
Looking back | find it incredible that fifteen thousand students who 
were prepared to pay for their own building, and who had support 
from the president, the faculty senate, the advisory committee, and 
some of the most respected members of the architectural profession 
in San Francisco, could be frustrated by sixteen trustees who met 
once a month to run eighteen colleges. And that in a state where 
Reagan was elected on a platform of ‘’conservatism,’’ which we 
are told supports decentralization and community control of 
_ 
community functions. This was a project that surged on the constructive 
energies of students over a period of five years—a campus effort to 
get a building built with their own 
money. If the building had 
gone ahead at that point, it would have involved the whole campus, 
had everyone working together creatively. We were going to buy 
looms and all the textiles in the building were to be woven by the 
students. Students were going to become involved in planting the 
building in collaboration with the department of botany. Students 
were going to make the furniture, 
and make the graphics, all kinds 
of things. So what do the trustees do? 
They say ‘’No.”’ And then 
they're surprised when the campus biows up. 
Sweet's Files 
!t’s a shame some of the best tools are the hardest to get to. Though 
Sweet’s are free, they are given only to Public Libraries in cities 
of more than 250,000 people and to the 10,000 most active archi- 
tectural firms in the U.S. 
It’s often possible to talk a local architect 
out of last year’s edition if you speak for it early. They do not 
become obsolete just. because they are a year or two old. 
Sweet's is essentially a catalog of catalogs, a filing system in a yard 
of volumes which binds, lists and cross-references catalogs of 
manufacturers. 
It covers six areas that | 
know of: Industrial, 
Residential and Commercial Construction and Product, Interior 
and Plant Design. Each file in these areas is a separate entity. 
The 
commercial construction file is the one most architects have and 
for any one building, it is the most useful. 
It is very helpful when 
improvising details for it provides a full spectrum of what is already 
available for the ready made answers to most problems. Manufac- 
turers usually do a pretty good job with the material they include 
in the files so there’s not-much left to question as to how their 
product works, 
If there is any question, the manufacturer’s repre- 
sentative is usually listed, with his phone number and address. 
He’ll 
usually bend over backwards to help you if you say you saw it in 
Sweet's. 
[Suggested and reviewed by ONY X] 
Sweet’s Files 
Sweet’s Construction Division 
McGraw-Hill Information Systems Company 
1221 Avenue of the Americas, 21st floor 
New York, N.Y. 10020 
Architecture 
Shelter 
Habitat, and crane that 
lifted the cast modules 
into place. 
5 
“ 
BE 
Beyond Habitat 
Moshe Safdie 
1970; 244 pp. 
$2.95 
oy 
from: 
- 
MIT Press 
50 Ames Street 
Cambridge, Mass. 02142 
or WHOLE EARTH 
CATALOG 
Economic minimum oniy 
“relative to flat roof Dub|-Panl 
2. 
Preliminary design available 
3” Corr. 
Roof Panel 
* 
for rise/span ratios of 1/5 
\ 
e. 
TKEXEKEKRR 
ubl-Panl 
L_ 3” Corr. Ceiling 
trut System 
(gage varies) 
Rise 
Varies 
| 
(Note 1) 
‘TWO HINGED CIRCULAR ARCH. 
Clear Span—250’ to 1000’ 
Structural angle assembly—Load 
transfer from panel chords to 
foundation base pin 
“Pin & Base Plate assembly 
at 41 inch centers 
DETAIL Y 
BASE DETAIL 
|t is worth noting that the piezoelectric effect has been observed in 
a number of organic materials, among them wood, bone, tendon and \ 
skin and the argument has been put forward by Shamos and Lavine 
and others that the piezoelectric properties of these fibrous poly- 
meric materials function as stress-sensing devices in living organisms 
structural characteristics of living things. In wood, stress concen- 
trations due to wind loads would produce an electric potential 
proportinal to the stress in any part of the tree, which might act 
as a. growth signal, causing greatest growth in the parts that are 
This Graded Universe—Lancelot 
Law Whyte — 
You should have seen the look on his face when 
God solved the problem of making an endlessly 
vatied universe. He had already made two. The 
first was an ideal gas near to maximum 
dynamical disorder. That was dull; any 
differences he put into it soon vanished. It was 
an enttopy victory, without order, form, or life. 
+ 
™ 
Splendid... 
IT have a divine 
idea. 
His second was a world of perfect crystals. That 
was fun; there were 230 different types, all 
_ 
aesthetically intriguing. But each crystal was 
, homogeneous, and therefore rather inert. It 
was a cold world (near zero), and left him 
dissatisfied. What he wanted was a blend of 
order and diversity, enough order to be pleasing 
and enough diversity to be continually forming 
_ 
new patterns, its fertility born of differences. Then 
he thought ‘Splendid. I have a divine idea. My 
next universe will be the scene of two 
competing tendencies: morphic? processes 
generating three-dimensional geometrical order, 
and entropic processes leading towards ‘dynamical 
disorder. That will make for unending variety, 
and when they’re fluctuating nearly in balance 
something extraordinary will occur. The 
motphic processes will keep building ordered 
units and forming a great hierarchy of structural 
levels, from parts to wholes, while the entropy 
. 
processes will tend to disperse the hierarchy. 
_ This subtle fluctuating balance will be called 
“life” by systems that display that vitality in 
a special mode to be called by them “thinking”.’ 
Fe
ee
ee
e
pee 
_ This was another moment when Habitat sat poised between life 
and death. At that point Churchill could have backed down before 
Lapointe’s pressure. He could have said, ‘It’s your property, you 
paid. towards making it, and you have some rights to it... 
or ‘‘What do you think we should de with it?”’ Instead, he turned 
round and asked, ‘‘Are you prepared to build it? Are you prepared to 
finance the whole project?” La pointe said, ‘’No.’’ Churchill said, 
“When you give money to the government you give it without 
any strings attached. The government owns what is done with the 
money you have donated. This is our plan. The Corporation owns it.” 
That was when | realized how strong Churchill really was. He had 
dealt with the private sector as a government official; there had’ often 
been attempts to push him around before, and he wasn’t taking it. 
Right there he saved the project from drifting into the potential 
problems of the cement companies’ uninvolved involvement. 
Proposed San Francisco State Student Union 
Architectural Graphic Standards 
ce 
lf Sweet's is a kind of magic lamp in many architects’ and builders’ 
: 
libraries , the genie might well be ’Graphic Standards. 
This volume 
has been around for years; its latest edition is its fifth. Whenever 
the office expert hasn’t got the answer, ’Graphic Standards usually 
~ 
does. 
It is the how-to-do-it book of construction. 
[t doesn’t cover 
domes but if there’s anything else you have in mind, it’s probably - 
in there. Older construction techniques (stone masonry, etc.) are 
- covered as well as relatively newer techniques; it’s very useful in. 
remodeling and repair work. Everything is done with a minimum 
of verbiage and a maximum of illustrations and very useable 
charts and graphs. 
’Graphic Standards is so taken for granted by 
any 
architecture student or office that it’s almost become a 
challenge to stay away from it; ultimately, however, there’s 
seldom a building built without reference to it in the U.S. today. 
TOOL. 
[Suggested and reviewed 
by ONY X] 
Architectural Graphic 
$44.95 ocostpaid 
Standards for Architects, . 
g 
from:. 
i 
Engineers, Decorators, 
John Wildy end Sans 
Builders, Draftsmen 
Publishing Co. 
= 
and Students 
1 Wiley Drive 
Charles G. Ramsey and 
Harold R. Sleeper 
1970, 6th ed., 695 pp. 
Somerset, N. J. 08873 
Western Distribution: 
1530 South Redwood Rd. 
3
Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 
:
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
e 
* 
