eo 
ep 
ee 
er F 
Camping and Woodcraft 
How could anything written in 1916 still be so useful? One, 
it is a masterwork. Two, in Kephart’s day when you went 
camping you really disappeared, so there’s a valid nostalgia 
factor. But the main thing is, the book survives on its 
wealth of specific practical lore. Game: find the information 
that is outdated, sort it from the information that is 
correct and available nowhere else. 
—SB 
See Epilog, 
page 659 
Tee volumes jx nee... A complats haedtieok far 
sneation caswpers and travelers ix the wideraxse 
Cam ping and Woodcraft 
Horace 
Kephart 
1917, 1921, 1967; 479pp. 
$8.95 postpaid 
— 
from: 
The Macmillan Company 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, Burlington County 
New Jersey 08075 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Fig. 185.—Splicing thongs 
Men working hard in the open, and exposed to the vicissitudes of 
wilderness life, need a diet rich in protein, fats (especially in cold 
weather), and sweets. This may not agree with theories of dieticians, 
but it is the experience of millions of campaigners who know what 
their work demands. A low-protein diet may be good for men lead- 
ing soft lives, and for an occasional freak outdoorsman, but try it 
on an army in the field, or on a crew of lumberjacks, and you will 
face stark mutiny. 
° 
Skills for Taming the Wilds 
Bradford Angier’s outdoor books are generally thin, 
sketchy, and repetitive from book to book. 
This appears 
to be the least diluted one. Applicable mainly to north- 
woods, where indeed Angier has lived for many 
years. 
—SB 
Skills for Taming the Wilds 
Bradford Angier 
1967; 280 pp. 
$1.25 postpaid 
from: 
Pocket Books 
1 West 39th St. 
New York, N.Y. 10018 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
When campfire or cabin smoke, after lifting a short distance with 
the heated air, beats downward, it is a sign of approaching storm. 
On the other hand, steadily rising smoke prognosticates fair weather. 
Wildwood Wisdom 
this is the only book of wilderlore i’ve 
ever read from front to back, mainly 
because one third of the book is pictures, 
and i got sucked from one picture to the next,. 
all the way through, 
Jaeger assumes that you are in the wildwood 
because you want to be, and that 
the woods dictate as much a style of living 
as do the sidewalks of omaha, if you are going . 
to live anywhere, do it with style, like an 
indian, with decorum, simply, carefully, quietly, 
but with style. 
—jd 
Colorful blankets, striped or in plain colors, may be cut up into 
the patterns shown in the drawing. The front is made in two parts, 
the back in one. The wide circular collar is made double thickness. 
Large patch pockets are sewed on the front sections before the 
coat is stitched together. The eqauletlike pieces of blanketing at 
the shoulders are placed there to act as drains, so that the rain will 
not soak in at the shoulder seams. Coarse blanket fringe may be 
stitched on at the front and back, as well as the belt loops, if 
desired. Double-stitch the front and back together at the shoulders. 
Sew the sleeves and the epaulets double at the armholes, and 
double-stitch the circular collar to the coat proper. If a belt is 
wanted, sew double thicknesses of the blanket together about four 
inches wide. The belt may be fastened 
with buttons 
or it may 
be made long enough for a sash. A colored yarn tassel ball may 
Camping 
Nowandect 
Rabbits are unfit to eat in late summer, as their backs are then infested 
with warbles, which are the larvae of the rabbit bot-fly. 
Green Corn.— If you happen to camp near a farm in the ‘’Roasting- 
ear’’ season, you are in great luck. The quickest way to roast an ear 
of corn is to cut off the butt of the ear closely, so that the pith of 
the cob is exposed, ream it out a little, impale the cob lengthwise on the 
the end of a long hardwood stick, and turn over the coals. 
© 
Skilligalee.— The best thing in a fixed camp is the stock-pot. A large 
covered pot or enameled pail is reserved for this and nothing else. 
Into it go all the fag-ends of game — heads, tails, wings, feet, giblets, 
large bones — also the left-overs of fish, flesh and fowl, of any and all 
sots of vegtabies, rice, or other cereals, macaroni, stale bread, every- 
thing edible except fat. This pot is always kept hot. Its flavors are 
forever changing, but ever welcome. 
It is always ready, day or night, 
for the hungry varlet who missed connections or who wants a bite 
between meals. No cook who values his peace of mind will fail to 
have a skilly simmering at all hours. 
® 
A woodsman, on the contrary, walks with a rolling motion, his hips 
swaying an inch or more to the stepping side, and his pace is corres- 
pondingly long. This hip action may be noticed to an exaggerated 
degree in the stride of a professional pedestrian; but the latter walks 
with a heel-and-toe step, whereas an I ndian’s or sailor’s step is more 
nearly flat-footed. 
In the latter case the center of gravity is covered 
by the whole foot. The poise is as secure as that of a rope-walker. 
Itis not nearly so much the ‘‘make” of rifle as the load it takes that 
determines the gun’s shooting qualities. So, choose first a cartridge, 
then a gun to handle it. 
Benpinc Woop.—Small pieces of green wood can 
be bent to a required form by merely soaking the 
Tig. 54.—Spanish Windlass (for bending wood) 
pieces for two or three days in water, but if it is 
desired that they should retain their new shape, they 
should be steained. 
Oleomargarine, largely because it keeps so well, is recommended for 
general wilderness use.- To cut hard margarine or butter cleanly, use 
a knife that has been heated in hot water. 
To protect yourself from popping hot fat, stop the spattering by 
sprinkling a bit of flour inte the frypan. 
If the grease catches fire, 
throw a handful of flour on it or extinguish the flames by covering 
the burning fat and shutting out the air. 
Stopper Knot 
Pockets are so handy in the outdoors that special attention should 
be paid to their deepness and ruggedness when buying clothing for 
the woods. 
Because of the danger of losing your already limited 
essentials, it is well to get most or all of these with fasteners. 
Wildwood Wisdom 
Ellsworth Jaeger 
1945;69; 491pp. 
$6.95 postpaid 
from: 
The Macmillan Company 
866 Third Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
be attached to the belt ends. Buttons and buttonholes must be 
provided on the front and on the patch pockets. 
Now stitch the sides of the coat and the sleeves, starting at the 
bottom and continuing upward and along the sleeves. Turn up the 
cuffs of the sleeves to the desired width and fasten them with a few 
stitches. A french-Canadian capote, or hood, may be added, and 
the illustration shows how it is made. This fits over the upturned 
color and may be fastened to the colar with a few small buttons, 
or it may be worn by itself and held with tie-strings under the 
chin. This briefly completes the job; and a colorful, picturesque, and 
very warm addition has been made to your outdoor wardrobe, 
one which can be worn for many years. 
In Alaska, all animals leave for the snow-line as soon as the mosquito 
pest appears, but the enemy follows them even to the mountain tops 
above timber-line. Deer and Moose are killed by mosquitoes, which 
settle upon them in such amazing swarms that the unfortunate beasts 
succumb from literally having the blood sucked out of their bodies. 
Bears are driven frantic, are totally. blinded, mire in the mud, and 
starve to death. Animals that survive have their flesh discolored all 
through, and even their marrow is reduced to the consistency of 
blood and water. The men who penetrate such regions are not the 
kind that would allow toil! or privation to break their spirit, but they 
become so unstrung from days and nights of continuous torment 
inflicted by enemies insignificant in size but infinite in number, that 
they become savage, desperate, and sometimes even weep in sheer 
sa a anger. 
Fig. 68—A Masked Camp 
ii 
Mu? 
Ly, ie 
cit LU 
x Gin, 
Cet 
Hi HY pe 
7H Zi 
aR il qt Mae aH 
2 i 
le 
Trees and Lightning. — | have never seen, nor heard of, a beech tree 
that had been struck by lightning, although beeches are plentiful on 
many battle-scarred mountains where stricken trees of other species 
can be noted by the score. 
e 
One glance at a camper’s fire tells what kind of a woodsman he is. 
It is quite impossible to prepare a good meal over a heap of smoking 
chunks, a fierce blaze, or a great bed of coals that will warp iron and 
melt everything else. 
It usually requires a disproportionate amount of energy to travel 
- 
straight up and down hills, as the trails of animals reveal they well 
know. You generally will do better in the long run either to zigzag 
or to slant off at a gradual pitch. Energy will be conserved if you 
can proceed without cutting across major drainage systems. As 
for resting, this is more beneficial when enjoyed frequently for 
brief periods. Hurrying ahead for long stretches and then taking 
prolonged breathing spells tends to cause the muscles to stiffen. 
Telling Direction by Watch and Sun. When the hour hand points 
directly toward the sun, south lies midway along the smaller arc 
between the hour hand and twelve o'clock. 
Soar 
BUTTONS ON 
=~ COLLAR 
