a a8 
oe Site Stone came Earth Times, which died. Out 
# Earth Times comes Clear Creek, which /ooks sturdier. 
_ 
Lively careful journalism with departments like Environ- 
mental Law, Earth Hero, Life Form of the Month. 
I’/l bet 
this and Environment Monthly are the only eco-periodicals 
q M keep up with when | quit being an editor. 
3 
Beis 
ie 
69 
F | Clear Creek 
p Pennfield Jensen, ed. 
| 
$8/yr (monthly) 
$6 Canada 
_ $8 Overseas & Morice 
ce, 
. P 
Defunct 
The Environment Monthly 
A terse publication with some of the solidest information 
__ we've seen on environmental issues, especially as they 
_ relate to architecture and land-use. 
: 
—SB 
The Environment Monthly 
William. Houseman, ed. 
; 
E 3s, (monthly) $12.50 students 
from: 
The Environment Monthly 
“420 Lexington Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
THE PEACE CORPS FINDS A NATURAL OUTLET FOR ITS 
ENERGIES: 
Flagging in purpose over the last couple of years, the 
Peace Corps has recently found new stimulus in the environmental 
sphere. Teaming up with the Smithsonian Institution, the Corps 
‘will encourage men and women of all ages experienced in the 
“management of natural resources to sign up for constructive service 
in many countries that have already formed a waiting list. Among 
them: 
Philippines, Thailand, Micronesia, Costa Rica, Brazil, El 
Salvador and Columbia. For information write: Robert K. Poole, 
Director of Environmental Programs, eOce Corps Headquarters, 
ashington, D.C. 20525. 
A more professional journal of applied ecology. Dry but 
thorough articles. 
environment 
438 North Skinner Blvd. 
St. Louis, MO 63130 
~ 
ZPG National Reporter 
believe that better publications are those that start 
‘quietly. . .gradually-carefully gathering resources and readers 
thes 
and substance until they are an organic force._ This may be 
—SB 
Membership in ZPG, $15/yr, $8/yr Students 
ZPG National Reporter (subscription only) $5.50/yr 
2 ero Population Growth, Inc. 
Fabian Way 
Sperm Bank for men contemplating vasectoiny 
-« who would like to have a reserve of their own 
~ semen should fate alter their existing plans. For 
_ information: 
Genetic Laboratories, Suite 700, 
Medical 
Arts 
Building, 
Minneapolis, 
Minn. 
55402. 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
LAW 
Turn off the lights; in the silence of 
your darkened home you can hear a 
_thousand’ rivers 
whispering 
their 
thanks. 
‘ Environmental Action 
* Environmental Action is the biweekly growing out of the national 
environmental lobbying group by the same name. The mag is the 
tangible benefit of your support, but lobbying is the real name of 
their game. They aim at: banning throw-away beverage containers, 
passing a bill allowing people the right to sue polluters in court, 
passing a bill placing a steep tax on poor-gas-mileage autos, 
busting open the Highway Trust Fund to give more money to 
mass transit, preserving the Clean Air Act. Several regular feature 
departments. My favorite—Debunking Madison Avenue, which 
fires squarely on the unholy alliances between industry and 
environmentalists. 
PC 
Environmental. Action 
Peter Harnik, ed. 
$1 0.00 /yr (bi-monthly) 
from: 
Environmental Action, Inc. 
Room 731 
1346 Connecticut Ave. N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20036 
. See Epitog, 
page 467 
Can this be sewage? Winter irrigation with the 
treated sewage effluent in this forested area pro- 
duced a fairyland of ice. Because effluent is 
produced year round, some special distribution 
techniques had to be developed for operating 
the system during sub-freezing temperatures. 
perforated pipes, and revolving sprinklers. But the 
best performance was obtained using a stationary 
deflecting sprinkler-head developed specially for 
the project. Although the new sprinklers operated 
continuously under all conditions, the distribution 
pattern was not completely satisfactory, and 
research is continuing to try to improve them. 
Children in Small Families tend to be: 
brighter 
bigger and taller 
more creative 
more mentally stable 
more independent 
Parents of Small Families tend to be: 
happier 
- 
more emotionally stable 
better off financially 
e 
The best way to avoid any hint of genocide is to control! the popula- 
tion of the dominant group. 
If this means an increase in the pro- 
portion of dark-skinned people in our society, so what? 
If blacks 
_ and whites cannot learn to enjoy their differences instead of using 
them as a basis for hatred, there will not be a world worth living in. 
Paul Ehrlich & Richard Harriman 
Several methods were tried including open trenches, 
environmental 
action 
eco-tage (8-ko -tazh or € -ko -tazh), n. [MnE. ecology and sabotage; 
from Gr. ozkos, a house, and logy, to study; and saboter, to damage 
machinery with wooden shoes], the branch of tactical biology that 
deals with the relationship between living organisms and their 
technology. 
It usually refers to tactics which can be executed with- 
out injury to life systems. 
BY THE RIVER 
The rock Estelle was on was one of several boulders near 
the river, all of them gray and half as big as houses. 
It was 
already dark on the ground around the rocks, and cold enough 
to make you want a sweater. 
But the sun was still shining in 
the trees overhead, and as D.R. climbed he thought: 
climbing 
for Estelle is climbing for the sun. 
It warmed him to think 
that. 
And he was warmed all over again when he saw Estelle 
lying on her bright Mexican serape on the broad, flat surface 
of the rock. 
Estelle had her shirt off; rolled under her head for a pillow. 
Her skin was naturally dark, a sort of pale olive that was always 
consistent in its tone no matter how much or how little sun she 
got. 
Estelle’s hips and her thighs were too thick for anyone 
ever to call her figure beautiful” in that plastic sense that Miss 
America is considered “beautiful‘” 
And her face was too. much 
the face of the average girl in a crowd for, say, 
a TV camera man 
to ever zoom in on and freeze as something special. And yet 
Estelle was a truly beautiful girl. She had dark hair and very 
large, dark brown eyes. 
Her breasts weren’t especially big, or 
little, or round, or pointy or any of those magazine-writer tit- 
fetish cliches. 
They were just nice boobs on a nice woman, 
absolutely real like everything else about her. Goddamn, D.R. 
thought. Tears came into his eyes. 
He could hardly believe 
the loveliness of the moment his painful walk across the camp- 
ground had led him to. 
The sun was just going down behind 
the cliffs across the river, shining orange through the trees and 
across Estelle’s naked skin. 
Shielding her eyes with her hand, 
she looked up and smiled at D.R., then patted the rock beside 
her with her hand. 
D.R. lay down and snuggled his face in her 
hair. 
“I've been having the loveliest visions,” said Estelle. 
"I’ve 
been séeing wonderful feathered horses, flying through the sky. 
And wheat fields that would turn to wings and fly away.” 
D.R. asked Estelle what she thought the visions meant. 
“Nothing,” said Estelle. 
““At least | hope they don’t mean 
anything.» 
| like them just exactly as they were.” 
They lay quietly for awhile. 
The sky was full of light and 
still a brilliant blue. 
But the rock and the river valley and the 
cliffs on the other side were all in shadow now, and it was 
getting cool. 
Estelle turned on her side and moved closer to 
D.R., laying her arm-across him. 
Her breast tumbled precisely 
into D.R.’s hand, and for a time the reality between them was 
simply hand on breast, hand folded in the flesh of breast, 
pressing and rubbing and smoothing like patting down a pillow. 
Then their mouths came together in a long and dreamy kiss. 
Ecology 
Periodicals 4 1 
Whole Systems 
P
IE 
