Ideas, Inventions, and Patents 
Patents are one of those facets of the establishment that 
both baffle and infuriate people. 
/t’s a complex business. 
This book gives the clearest and most comprehensive expla- 
nation of the whole patent bit that | have ever seen. /t is at 
the same time, a reference book intended to help you under- 
stand patents, and an unintentional denunciation of the whole 
process. 
The author shows why we have to have patents, 
what good they do, and how to get one. He also shows how 
to get around patents, how long you have to wait, and how 
much it will cost. He reveals the human biases involved in 
the patent office, and admits that the government is so 
poorly organized that they may issue conflicting patents to 
two different parties at the same time! The book is indexed 
in a way that permits you to easily tind answers to questions. 
/f you need to know something about patents, this is it. 
[Reviewed by Jay Baldwin] 
Ideas, Inventions, and Patents 
Robert A. Buckles 
1957; 270 pp. 
$12.50 postpaid 
from: 
John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 
605 Third Ave., 
New York, N.Y. 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
1954,66; 473pp 
$1 2.50 postpaid 
from: 
Human Engineering Guide 
Buy this book and keep it at hand at all 
times if you design or build anything that 
will by used by, for, or come in contact with 
people. Concise statement of ideas both 
through the informative writing and clear 
illustrations. The authors have followed 
their own guidelines and produced a device 
{this book) which will do well what it was 
designed to do, transfer a large amount of | 
information between people. If you want 
information on human engineering, design 
of equipment and work space, vision, 
audition and body measurement, it’s all 
in this book chapter by chapter. The above 
categories are a partial list of actual chapter 
headings. This book should be used by all 
design engineers, but it is not necessary to 
be a design engineer or even an engineer to. 
use it. Really fundamental ideas clearly 
stated can be understood by anyone. 
[Reviewed by F. Le Brun] 
2223 Fulton St. 
Jigs & Fixtures for Limited Production 
This book is a manual of tactics for making inexpensive Jigs. 
It’s intended mainly for machine shops, but it can be quite 
handy for anyone who has to make a number of similar 
parts, such as for a dome. Jigs are also handy when a single 
part has to be done with high accuracy. Anyone who is 
into making things ore repairing various artifacts could 
learn a bag of tricks from the book. The author shows how 
to convert commonly available objects into jigs; a vice into 
a drilling jib. There’s a chapter on making epoxy tooling. 
The language is non-technical, with most of the terms being 
defined. For most makers, it won’t be bedtime reading, 
but will be a good reference when the problems get tough. 
[Reviewed by Jay Baldwin] 
Jigs & Fixtures for Limited Production 
~ Harold Sedlik 
1970; 136 pp. 
$10.00 postpaid 
from: 
Society of Manufacturing Engineers 
20501 Ford Rd. 
Dearborn, Michigan 48128 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
jigs & fixtures 
for limited ee 
Mecoht Seits 
aii 
Sp hes 
University of California Press 
Berkeley, Ca. 94720 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
As to what constitutes prior knowledge of an invention in this 
country, the courts interpret the term “invention” here in its 
restricted legal sense as meaning a completed and operable 
device or system. Mere knowledge of the conception of an idea for 
an invention is not sufficient prior knowledge to defeat an appli- 
cant, or patent, of one who is the “first inventor” in the true sense 
of being the first person to make or complete the invention in 
operative form. This interpretation was handed down by the United 
States Court of Customs and Patent Appeals in a test case brought 
to clarify the meaning of this section of the Patent Act of 1952. 
As soon as the invention is conceived the inventor should sit down 
and write out a detailed description, complete with a drawing where 
the subject lends itself to graphical representation, and as soon 
thereafter as possible he should disclose and.explain his invention 
to someone who can understand it and who will sign his name and 
the date at the end of the written description, as a witness to the 
disclosure on that date. Very often this will be the earliest date 
that the inventor can prove, even though he may have conceived 
the invention in his mind much earlier. 
‘Where possible, work should be held by jigs 
or vises so that hands may be free to operate. 
Hesitation — or the temporary and often minute 
cessation from motion — should be analyzed; 
its cause should be accounted for and, if possible, 
eliminated. 
Human Engineering Guide 
for Equipment Designers 
Wesley E. Woodson, Donald W. Conover 
Apparent path 
of sun 
When a click in one ear leads that 
in the other by about 0.03 
millisecond, the sound just begins 
to shift toward the first side; 
when there is a time difference 
of 0.65 millisecond or more, 
the sound appears completely 
localized on the side of first 
arrival, this localization remaining 
until the time difference becomes 
so great(3 milliseconds or 
more) that fusion is lost and 
the sound is heard separately 
in the two ears. 
Fig. 2-4. 
Master part method of transferring hole locations. 
If an item does not warrant special tooling, there may. be an economic 
advantage in using the master part system. The system, as the name 
implies, uses a simulated Or actual part fabricated to slightly closer 
tolerances than the intended product and used as a template or jig. 
When a master part is used as a jig for locating holes, the master and 
the part to be worked are clamped together as shown, and the hole 
locations are transferred from the master to the part with a dupli- 
cating punch.. If possible, hardened bushings are inserted into the 
master part, making it possible to transfer holes directly by drilling. 
The addition of drill bushings improves accuracy and increases 
tool life. 
RELATIVE 
HUMIDITY 
(%) 
prenrerring 
* 
Patented 
June 
20, 
1922. 
1,420,609. 
RG 
Awepnas: 
Ua 
ee. 
Drawings from two patents later issued to Glenn Curtiss when courts finally de- 
cided that he was the inventor of the Flying Boat. 
GENERALLY 
CONSIDERED 
COMFORTABLE 
65 
70 
75 
80 
85 
90 
CONFIDENCE FACTOR 
7 
eons 
Since humans are used to evaluating things with 
“all their senses” from the time they are born, 
it is natural for them to expect this. Each of the 
sensory inputs, in fact, raises the level of 
confidence of the operator in what he is reveiving — 
thus the converse of this, i.e., lack of certain 
inputs, tends to reduce the operator’s confidence 
in the information he is receiving. 
PART THREE 
stire, SS a4 
Ses 1 mote Brag 
EK 
EDDIE’S FUNERAL 
The mourners were lying around the room on mattresses, 
smoking hash between hits on nitrous oxide. Nearly everbody 
there was a St. Louis dealer, and since Eddie had been a dealer 
The Native thought it would be nice if sample's of everybody's 
stuff. was done, in honor of Eddie’s passing. Somebody do grass. 
Somebody else do acid. Somebody else do DMT. Somebody 
else do IT-290. Somebody else do STP. Somebody else do peyote. 
Somebody else do mescalin. Somebody else do psycilocybin. 
Somebody else do reds, and everybody share the laughing gas to 
tie the whole thing together, in honor of Eddie’s passing. 
But that was just The Native coming on, just The Native doing 
his usual thing. The Native got his name because he was always 
talking about how nobody’s a native anymore. Nobody tives where 
he was born, nobody’s got real roots any more, and that’s why 
people are so unhappy. The Native grew up in the Ozark Mountains 
of Missouri. He was so homesick most of the time, allt he ever 
talked about was his family and his old home place back in the 
Ozarks. People at home have got identity, said The Native. 
They've got a history, and their lives are full of the mast beautiful 
rituals. The Native loved rituals, and he wanted Eddie’s funeral 
to be one, an elaborate ceremony where everybody would take 
a different kind of dope and then do communal things like chant 
and sing and mourn poor Eddie’s passing. 
But none.of the others were up to it. There were eleven people 
at the funeral, besides The Native. Blue Ox was there, and Gilded 
Lilly. Chuck, Friendly Persuasion, City Girl and the Crosstown 
Rivals, plus Reed and Winston and Divine Right Davenport and 
his chick who had just blown in from somewhere. They had all 
been Eddie's friends, and they were all just as sorry as The Native 
that Eddie was dead. But the hash and the nitrous oxide and three 
TV sets all going at once were all that they could handle right then. 
"Give me the hose,” said Bert of the Crosstown Rivals. 
Bert's rival, Norton, had been sucking on the laughing gas almost 
two minutes now, and Bert was getting antsy. His last flash had 
been all about time, it had taken him down the passageway to 
the very door of the rose garden, but as he was about to go in 
the flash had started to wear off. Against his will he’d come 
reeling up the same passage he had taken down, and that was a 
disappointment. 
If he could have gotten the gas hose when he 
was supposed to, he could have made it back down in time to 
keep the dream intact, for even though he’d become conscious 
again the footprints still echoed clearly in his memory and showed 
the way back to the garden. But stupid Norton had the greeds 
and wouldn't let go of the hose. 
: 
_Acontinued) 
Inventions 
Industry 
