Peace Corps 
We've got fine vacation news for suburban guerrillas, or for that mat- 
ter, anybody up for a trip. Make Peace Corps your local travel agency 
at no expense to you. 
lf you want some time to think, adequate salary, easy and fun job, 
free medical care, free dental care, many profusely illustrated publi- 
cations, and other gratuities, take advantage of the free offer. The 
U.S. government can be penetrated “like cheese-cloth*’. 
It’s full of 
holes to breathe through. 
Chances of acceptance are high, especially for people who can make 
things grow. 
If you can’t make things grow you probably qualify as 
an English teacher. The more under-developed the country, the more 
loosely defined the job. If you want to make a big deal out of what 
you find yourself doing you can, but if you're not that type then let 
the Peace Corps be your reality trip. You might end up with a Maha- 
rishi in your own neighborhood. 
Training usually amounts to a 6—10 week commune. Our program 
trained on a ranch near Rocky Mountain National Park — an instant 
plastic community with coop general store, nightly dancing, feasting 
together, mountain climbing, even our own mythology. We also 
learned a foreign language. The same kind of language course we got 
would cost a couple thou at Berlitz. Other training programs have 
taken place in Mexico, Canada, the Virgin Islands, and all over Cali- 
fornia. The trend in Peace Corps training programs today is to choose 
a salubrious place where volunteers will feel a sense of oneness. 
Peace Corps employs thousands of volunteers in countries all over the 
world — Morocco, Afghanistan, Nepal, Micronisia, India, Peru, Sierra 
Leone, and other places you might like to know. 
It’s usually no prob- 
lem enjoying the better aspects of the natives and retaining what you 
are at the same time. 
If you don’t dig the natives you can work along 
with them anyway. 
: 
Peace Corps volunteers get two days of paid vacation for every month 
of service. That means 48 days accumulated vacation for two years 
of service. 
During vacation you get nine dollars a day just to subsist 
on. One volunteer visited five countries his first year of service — 
Spain, Tunisia, Sicily, Italy, and Greece, spending no less than two 
weeks in any one country. A skillful volunteer could easily beat that. 
Counting local holidays, Christmas vacation, summer vacation, spring 
vacation, and unexpected surprises like International Moon Day or a 
sudden coup, a volunteer could easily push five months in days-off 
during a single year. 
Despite recession in the states Peace Corps salaries have been going up 
recently. 
In less than a year's time our salaries have increased by 33%. 
With our excess subsistance allowance we’ve bought a lot of hand- 
made rugs and blankets worth thousands in the states if you need re- 
tirement money. 
The necessary information is available through Peace Corps, Washing- 
ton. When you read Peace Corps material, use your imagination. Don’t 
be turned off by jargon like ‘’volunteer spirit’’ and ‘effectiveness’. 
In most countries lack of communications make bureaucracy virtually 
impossible. You are necessarily left alone. Improvise. Take astereo— 
and plenty of books you've been wanting to read. 
!f the Peace Corps 
charters an airplane to fly your program to its site, there is practically 
no limit on baggage weight. 
Regardless of when you leave the Peace Corps you get 75 dollars for 
every month of service abroad or about 1500 dollars after two years, 
plus free air fare back to your suburban camp. The Peace Corps will 
even find you another job. 
And the whole two years is a free-trial period. 
If for any reason you 
don’t like what you're doing, Peace Corps will pay your way home at 
any time. 
Write Peace Corps in Washington and ask for a hand-book. Ask for 
special information on the country of your choice. 
Inquire about 
training programs and fields open to volunteers. Everything is free of 
charge. The whole trip costs you nothing. 
Quotations from Peace Corps literature: 
The change in attitude many Volunteers have after the initial novelty 
of living abroad has worn off is sometimes striking. The fire of en- 
thusiasm they brought with them turns to ashes not long after they 
encounter the first misunderstanding, the first reluctance to change 
traditions based on the heritage of generations. Instead of attempting 
to affect the attitudes around them, however slightly, they begin in 
some respects to adopt these attitudes. 
Going from the ordered routine of training to an unstructured job 
overseas has sometimes been compared to running off the end of a 
pier. Suddenly there is no solid footing underneath; often there is 
not a staff member or an instructor in sight, and it’s up to you to 
sink or swim. 
The work of a volunteer is largely a matter of individual definition. 
Emergencies: The best advice here is to use your common sense. 
Neither volunteers nor staff members may pilot air-craft during their 
service with the Peace Corps. 
Mobius Polymers Unltd. 
Tunis, Tunisia 
Travel 
Nomadics 
4 
Knapsacking Abroad 
The quickest way to get to know the local folk is to let them 
help you, like giving you a ride or a place to camp. 
This isa 
practical collection of basic lore. 
—SB 
Knapsacking Abroad 
Herb and Judy Klinger 
1967; 95 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
Stackpole Books 
Cameron & Kelker Sts. 
Harrisburg, Pa. 17105 
Small gifts say more than ‘‘thank you’’ to someone who’s helped 
you along your way. 
Ingenious traders also manage to subsidize 
their travels by importing reasonable quantities of locally scarce 
personal goods for distribution in non-industrial! countries. 
Gifts 
and goods needn't all be hauled from home. Duty-free shops at 
ports of exit, or free ports en route, invite bargain purchases as 
- 
well as personal restocking. 
Premium items vary with country and times. 
Likely to continue 
popular in major blocs of the world are: 
Kennedy half-dollars, 
U.S. jazz records, unusual flower seeds, nylon shirts and stockings, 
instant coffee, transistorized equipment, watches, cameras, liquor, 
lipsticks, ballpoint pens, and photos of yourself and family. 
Student Eurfil Pass 
I have just read your Fall catalog and I noticed that you didn’t 
have anything about the greatest bargain in traveling in Europe, 
i.e., Student Eurail Pass. For $125 you can ride 2nd class for 2 
months on the railroads in 13 countries. 
If you wish to see some more evidence of this bargain read 
the August 14, 1970 edition of Life Magazine. 
Thanks, 
Jay Buster 
Peoria, [it 
$260 non-student 
2 months/$165 
Talk to a local travel agent 
s 
Youth Hostel Pass 
: 
The Youth hostel pass costs from $5 to $12, depending upon age 
and number in the group. It is required when staying at most of 
the European and American Youth hostels. 
The hostels in Europe 
generally charge from $1.50 on down per night per bed and often 
offer either the use of a kitchen or very cheap meals. If you plan 
to visit any of the bigger cities (Copenhagen, Stockholm, Amster 
dam, etc.) you should reserve a couple of weeks ahead of time. 
When you buy your card you should also buy the guide for the 
area you intend to visit. They offer a fairly complete listing and 
rating of each hostel, and tell how to get to them via public 
transport in the larger cities. You do not have to sleep ira hostel 
to eat, wash, loaf, etc. there. Also it isa good place touseasa 
— 
mailing address. I used the youth hostels in northern Europe and 
noticed that whole families often stayed at them. They also’ 
converted many schools into hostels during the summer. AsI 
have written above hostels are very cheap. I stayed at the Luxem- 
1 
bourg hostel and paid $1.25 for breakfast, supper and bed. I could 
~ 
have paid 50¢ more and gotten a packed lunch. The German 
hostels charge two-marks a night or 60¢ but are very strict but 
clean. For more information write: 
American Youth Hostels Inc. 
National Campus 
Delaplane, VA 22025 
lama member of the Potomac Area Council and thee 
have lots of 
pecalogy oriented outings. 
Leon Dubman 
Baltimore, Maryland 
PS: Travel hght and swift. 
Visit USA 
Another overseas bonus, “Visit USA” 
airline tickets. Even if 
you’re an American citizen, as long as you reside so-many miles 
outside the U.S., you're eligible. 
The $150, 21-day deai is the 
best— on the feeder airlines. Forget those big promotional 
jobs 
on the trunk lines. The feeders are good and cover more ground. 
Since the ticket must be started within 30 days from your arrival 
in the U.S., get two of them and get 42 days of bombing-around 
for $300. There are no hitches or anti-double-back gimmicks. 
When you get tired, jump on the longest flight you can find. When 
you're hungry, look for one with a meal coming up soon. A big 
~ 
bonus— as of last year, Alaska Airlines was in the deal So my 
kids andI flew from NYC to Nome, Alaska and back for $300 
(kids are half fare until the age of 20 or 21!). We even made a side 
- 
trip from Seattle to Portland and back to buy cigarettes— they’re 
cheaper in Oregon. 
Pete-Schermerhorn. 
Aruba 
} 
Netherlands Antilles 
Vagabonding in Europe and North Africa- 
Good specific low-rent information. 
es bonding in Europe and North Africa 
uryn 
at 225 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
Bookworks 
c/o Random House 
Westminster, Maryland 21157 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
P—R—O—V—O-—Y-—A is a number you dial in Paris if you want a ride — 
out of town bound for anywhere in Europe. This is an organization 
that arranges rides for hitchers for a $2 registration fee. Get details af 
from: Provoya, 16 rue de Provence, Paris 9e. I’ve heard of this 
5. 
several times but haven't used it and don’t know anyone elsé who 
Be 
has. Anybody? 
Drivers pick you up because they want something from you. Short 
list of wants: 
, 
1) 
They're bored— you're to entertain them or vicesverset 
2) 
They‘re curious— you're to provide information about some: { 
thing, usually yourself; 
r 
3) 
They want to feel charitable— you're the chosen recipient; 
4) 
They need something tangible— you’ re to share expenses or 
help drive, etc. 
° 
Europe This Way by James Steffensen Jr. and Lawrence Handel 
: 
(Atheneum; $7.95). New edition each year. Never mind that it's 
ie 
intended for students- ETW is the best all-around guidebook I've 
seen. The cost is high and the book is bulky, but both these disad- 
vantages result from one considerable advantage: 
it is packed with # 
information. More of it on more countries than any other guidebook rm 
and particularly important, the information is all useful and sensible. 
— 
It covers trip preparation, working or studying abroad, transportation, 
; 
food, lodging, entertainment, and the advice given by the authors is 
consistently excellent. 
Its country-by-country listings are the best_ : 
available between one set of covers. 
If you get it, consider tearing 
it apart to carry only the pages you need. 
It’s too bulky to carry 
| 
whole. 
; 
| 
