Light on Yoga 
/f you are into it already, and want probably the most 
complete Hatha Yoga book, get this book. It has over 
600 pictures, 200 asanas (postures) and a warm guru-like 
introduction to get you straight. 
[ 
Reviewed by Merce] 
LIGHT ON 
YOGA 
: 
Light on Yoga 
witha foreword by 
B.K.S. lyengar 
1965, 70; 342’ pp. 
| YEHUDIMENUHIN 
vee 300 
descedived 18, aetatt 
Oper 
600 atusrrastans 
- 
from: 
Schocken Books, !nc. 
200 Madison Ave. 
New York, NY 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Yoga is the method by which the restless mind is calmed and the 
energy directed into constructive channels. As a mighty river 
which when properly harnessed by dams and canals, creates a vast 
reservoir of water, prevents famine and provides abundant power 
for industry; so also the mind, when controlled provides a 
reservoir of peace and generates abundant energy for human uplift. 
To make life healthy, happy and peaceful, it is essential to study 
regularly divine literature in a pure place. This study of the'sacred 
books of the world will enable the sadhaka to concentrate upon and 
to solve the difficult problems of life when they arise. It will put 
an end to ignorance and bring knowledge. Ignorance has no beginning, 
but it has an end. There is a beginning but no end to knowledge. 
Once the sadhaka has experienced the fulness of creation or of the 
Creator, his thirst (trsna) for objects of sense vanishes and he looks 
at them ever after with dispassion (vairagya). He experiences no 
disquiet in heat or cold, in pain or pleasure, in honour or dishonour 
sand in virtue or vice. He treats the two imposters—triumph and 
disaster—with equanimity. He has emancipated himself from these 
pairs of opposites. He has passed beyond the pull of the gunas and 
has become a gunatita (one who has transcended the gunas). 
He is then free from birth and death, from pain and sorrow and 
becomes immortal. He has no self identity as he lives experiencing 
the fulness of the Universal Soul. Such a mani, scorning nothing, 
leads all things to the path of perfection. 
27. When one has mastered an asana, it comes with effortless. 
ease and causes no discomfort. The bodily movements become 
graceful. While performing asanas, the student’s body assumes 
numerous forms of life found in creation—from the lowliest insect 
to the most perfect sage—and he learns that in all these there 
breathes the same Universal Spirit—the Spirit of God. He looks 
within himself while practising and feels the presence of God In 
different asanas which he does with a sense of surrender unto the 
feet of the Lord. 
Kundalini: The Evolutionary Energy in Man 
dear jerry, 
the universe from the inside out, 
through the meditation efforts 
of an Indian government worker, 
a college failure. 
a story of personal contact 
with the cosmos, 
and what happens to a man 
when, unexpectedly, 
he is set apart from his friend, 
by a blinding flash 
of pure white enlightenment. 
~jd 
[Suggested by Sam Bercholz] 
Kundalini: The Evolutionary Energy in Man 
Gopi Krishna 
1970; 252 pp. 
$3.50 postpaid 
from: 
Shambhala Publications 
2045 Francisco St. 
Berkeley, California 94709 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Yoga 
Learning 
$3.95 plus $.30 postage and handling 
and Relief from Tension 
~ The Yoga System of Health 
and Relief from Tension 
Yogi Vithaldas 
: 
. 1957; 120 pp. 
$1.25 cee 
from: 
Cornerstone Library 
c/o Simon & Schuster, Inc. 
1 West 39th Street 
New York, NY 10018 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
power. 
reception. 
During one such spell of intense concentration | suddenly felt a 
strange sensation below the base of the spine, at the place touching 
the seat, while | sat cross-legged on a folded blanket spread on 
the floor. The sensation was so extraordinary and so pleasing that 
my attention was forcibly drawn towards it. The moment my 
attention was thus unexpectedly withdrawn from the point on 
which it was focused, the sensation ceased. Thinking it to bea 
trick played by my imagination to relax the tension, | dismissed 
the matter from my mind and brought my attention back to the 
point from which it had wandered. Again | fixed it on the lotus, 
and as the image grew clear and distinct at the top of my head, 
again the sensation occurred. This time | tried to maintain the fixity. 
of my attention and succeeded for a few seconds, but the sensation 
extending upwards grew so intense and was so extraordinary, 
as compared to anything | had experienced before, that in spite 
of myself my mind went towards it, and at that very moment it 
again disappeared. |'was now convinced that something unusual 
had happened for which my daily practice of concentration was 
probably responsible. 
. 
. 
Entirely unprepared for such a development, | was completely 
taken by surprise; but regaining self-control instantaneously, | 
remained sitting in the same posture, keeping my mind on the 
point of concentration. The illumination grew brighter and brighter, 
the roaring louder, | experienced a rocking sensation and then felt 
myself slipping out of my body, entirely enveloped ina halo of light. 
It is impossible to describe the experience accurately. | felt the 
peint of consciousness that was myself growing wider, | felt 
the point of consciousness that was myself growing wider 
surrounded by waves of light. It grew wider and wider, spreading 
outward while the body, normally the immediate object of its 
perception, appeared to have receded into the distance until | 
became entirely unconscious of it. | was now all consciousness, 
without any outline, without any idea of a corporeal appendage, 
without any feeling or sensation coming from the senses, immersed 
in a sea of light simultaneously conscious and aware of every point, 
spread out, as it were, in all directions without any barrier or 
material obstruction. | was no longer myself, or to be more accurate, 
no longer as | knew myself to be, a small point of awareness confined 
in a body, but instead was a vast circle of consciousness in which 
the body was but a point, bathed in light and in a state of exaltation 
and happiness impossible to describe. 
After some time, the duration of which | could not judge, the 
circle began to narrow down; | felt myself contracting, becoming 
smaller and smaller, until | again became dimly conscious of the 
outline of my body, then more clearly; and as | slipped back to 
my old condition, | became suddenly aware of the noises in the 
The Yoga System of Health 
lf you-do yoga every day, you'll feel better. An eas Si, 
hour and Yogi Vithaldas’ funky book will get you off 
. . 
has largé print, adequate pictures, and makes you want to ne 
out on the floor with it. A good book to begin with. 
[Reviewed by Merce] 
When concentrating on an object it is best to begin slowly and 
concentrate for thirty seconds intensely rather than three minutes 
in a half-controtled, disconnected fashion. Choose any object for the 
mind to fasten on, and make it a pleasant one—say a half-opened 
rose. Place it in front of you in a little vase on a level with your 
eyes, and think of nothing but its beauty, the soft imperceptible 
grading of the colours, the stalk, the thorns, and the leaf. 
: 
Keep your mind on that rose until you could tell anyone every 
feature of the blossom, and eventually, even with your eyes closed, 
that rose will be so firmly imprinted on your mind that it will be 
as vivid for you as if you were still looking at it. 
Regard the exercise as a kind of game, and have a shot at it at odd 
times of the day when you are waiting for a bus or for a meal. 
Do not waste that time by idle dreaming, but consciously direct 
your mind to some object, and, shortly, 
of mind-control will be established. 
Place an acorn before you and gaze steadily at it, fixing it firmly 
in your mind. Know with certainty its attributes, as with the rose—its 
shape, colour, and any markings you can discern. Then imagine 
the acorn in the ground and a root shooting from its burst seed, and 
the first green leaf, and carry on the process to the complete tree. 
-Leave nothing out, hurry nothing, let nothing interfere with 
you until in your mind the acorn has become a great tree. 
— 
Meditation has a positive and negative pole, or, in other words, two 
extremes in its practice which must be avoided. A person who erring 
on the positive side, avoids the great middie path, develops an 
assertive inner nature, and takes pride in a false superiority of — 
The student who sees no difference in receptivity and surrender 
of the will meditates in a negative manner, laying himself open to 
every passing force, desirable or not, instead of practising disciplined 
- against the wall, reclining in a position of ease and comfort. 
. 
THE YOGA SYSTEM OF HEALTH 
|AND RELIEF FROM TENSION 
an admirable technique 
street, felt again my arms and legs and head, and once more becam 
my narrow self in touch with body and surroundings. When | opened 
my eyes and looked about, | felt a little dazed and bewildered, 
as if coming back from.a strange land completely foreign to me. The 
sun had risen and was shining full on my face, warm and soothing. 
’ 
! tried to lift my hands, which always rested in my lap, One upon the 
other, during meditation. My arms felt limp and lifeless. With an_ 
: 
effort | raised them up and stretched them to enable the blood 
= 
to flow freely. Then | tried to free my legs from the posture in 
=| 
which | was sitting and to place them in a more comfortable pgsition 
but could not. They were heavy and stiff. With the help of my 
; 
hands | freec them and stretched them out, then putmy back 
__ 
e 
“ 
} 
aS 
Under the action of a stronger current than that for which it was 
designed, any man-made mechanism, even a hundredth part as 
sensitive and intricate as the human frame is, would be wrecked or 
damaged immediately, but because of certain inherent qualities, 
developed by the human organism as a means of evolution, the 
— 
sudden release of the serpent power, provided the blood is healthy 
and the organs sound, is not attended by fatal results in favourable 
cases because of safety devices already provided by nature to meet 
__ 
a contingency of this kind in individuals ready for the experience. 
Even.in such cases it is essential that the energy be benignly 
disposed and that the subject take the necessary precautions to 
maintain the strength of the body and the balance of the mind 
during the subsequent period of inexpressibly severe trial. How 
~ 
far | was endowed with a constitution suited for the great ordeal — 
| cannot say, but being an utter stranger to the science, taken — 
unawares without the. requisite preliminary course of physical and 
mental discipline, and a prey to adversity, | was buffeted unceasing| 
for many years partly because of my ignorance and lack of 
 ——- 
sufficient strength and partly because of the extreme suddenness — 
and rapidity of the Be aptcayy development. 
| was destined to witness my own transformation, not comparable 
in any way to the great transfigurations in the past, nor similar 
in point of results to the marvelous achievements of genius; but 
though simple in nature and ordinary in effect, a transformation — 
nevertheless, attended all along by great physical and mental 
suffering. But what | witnessed and still witness within myself is: 
: 
so contrary to many accepted notions of science, at variance with - 
many time-honoured dogmas of faith, and so antagonistic to 
- 
many of the universally followed dictums of civilization that when 
what | have experienced is proved empirically there must occur 
a far-reaching, revolutionary change in every sphere: of pe 
ioeoe activ 
and conduct. 
¢ 
