The Atlas of The Universe 
Sumptuous book. Accurate, well edited, well illustrated, 
well written. ‘Does the job as no other book has, anda 
lot have tried. 
Contents include exploration of space, atlas of the Earth, 
of the moon, of the solar system, and of the stars, along 
with a catalog of stellar objects, glossary of astronomical 
terms, and beginner's guide to the heavens. 
The Atlas of The Universe 
Patrick Moore 
1970; 272 pp. 
$35.00 postpaid 
from: 
Rand McNally & Company 
P.O. Box 7600 
Chicago, Illinois 60680 
4 
Below isa 
contour map of the centi- 
metric emission of the Sun. 
10 E. 53rd Street 
New York, N.Y. 10022 
206 Sansome Street 
San Francisco, CA. 94105 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
See Epiiog, page 457 
The Unexpected Universe 
Loren Eiseley celebrates our grandest ignorances, the places 
in human experience where if you stare into them, the 
void stares back. City dumps; the open end of evolution; 
the unexplored continent in your mind; stars; a Pharaoh’s 
dead gesture; edges of oceans. Strong useful prose from 
an old guy who knows something clear and bleak about 
regeneration. 
The Unexpected Universe 
Loren Eiseley 
1969; 239 pp. 
$2.45 postpaid 
from: 
Harcourt, Brace & Jovanovich, Inc. 
757 Third Avenue 
New York. N. ¥. 10017 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
In the end the sea rejects its offspring. They cannot fight their way 
home through the surf which casts them repeatedly back upon the 
shore. The tiny breathing pores of starfish are stuffed with sand. 
The rising sun shrivels the mucilaginous bodies of the unprotected: 
The seabeach and its endless war are soundless. Nothing screams but 
the gulls. ... 
- The sun behind me was pressing upward at the horizon’s rim—— 
an ominous red glare amidst the tumbling blackness of the clouds. 
Ahead of me, over the projecting point, a gigantic rainbow of 
incredible perfection had sprung shimmering into existence. Some- 
where toward its foot | discerned afhuman figure standing, as it 
seemed to me, within the rainbow, though unconscious of his 
position. He was gazing fixedly at something in the sand. 
The Character of Physical Law 
If you look larger or smaller than the skinny realm of life, 
all you see is physics. 
It is our substratum and superstratum. 
These famous Feynman lectures introduce the subject as no 
other book has. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Lyle Burkhead] 
See Evilog, page 468, 
Universe 
One 
OG 
Whole Systems 
“The Character of Physical Law 
The Lagoon Nebula, M8 Sagittarii, is a typical emission nebula, 
4850 light-years away. The “lagoon” is produced by the foreground 
dust-clouds. 
It is thought that the star producing the H-II region 
is of type O, and is so deeply embedded in the nebula that it cannot 
be observed. Globules have been detected, indicating that star 
formation is in process. The Lagoon is a dense nebula; there are 
103 to 104 atoms per cubic centimeter in the central region—— 
even though this density still corresponds to what we would nor- 
mally term a laboratory vacuum. 
Eventually he stooped and flung the object beyond the breaking 
surf. | labored toward him over a half mile of uncertain footing. 
By the time | reached him the rainbow had receded ahead of us, 
but something of its color still ran hastily in many changing 
lights across his features. He was starting to kneel again. 
{na pool of sand and silt a starfish had thrust its arms up stiffly 
and was holding its body away from the stifling mud. 
“It’s still alive,”’ | ventured. 
“*Yes,"’ he said, and with a quick yet gentle movement he picked 
up the star and spun it over my head and far out into the sea. 
It sank in a burst of spume, and the waters roared once more. 
“It may live,’’ he said, “if the offshore pull is strong enough.’’ He 
spoke gently, and across his bronzed worn face the light still came 
and went in subtly altering colors. 
“There are not many come this far,” | said, groping in a sudden 
embarrassment for words. ‘‘Do you collect?” 
“Only like this,”’ he said softly, gesturing amidst the wreckage of 
the shore. ‘And only for the living.’’ He stooped again, oblivious 
of my curiosity, and skipped another star neatiy across the water. 
“The stars,’ 
. It is as if at our backs, masked and demonic, moved the trick- 
ster as | have seen his role performed among the remnant of a 
savage people long ago. It was that of the jokester present at 
the most devout of ceremonies. This creature never laughed; he 
never made a sound. Painted in black, he followed silently behind 
the officiating priest, mimicking, with the added flourish of a 
‘he said, “throw well. One can help. them” 
little whip, the gestures of the devout one. His timed and stylized 
co 
posturings conveyed a derision infinitely more formidable than 
| 
actual laughter. ... 
| 
We had been safe in the enchanted forest only because of our 
weakness. When the powers of that gloomy region were given to 
us, immediately, as in a witch’s house, things began to fly about 
unbidden. The tools, if not science itself, were linked intangibly 
to the subconscious poltergeist aspect of man’s nature. The closer 
man and the natural world drew together, the more erratic became 
the behavior of each. Huge shadows leaped triumphantly after 
every blinding illumination. 
It was a magnified but clearly 
recognizable version of the black trickster’s antics behind the 
solemn backs of the priesthood. Here, there was one difference. 
The shadows had passed out of all human semblance; no societal 
ritual safely contained their posturings, as in the warning dance 
of the trickster. 
Instead, unseen by many because it was so 
gigantically real, the multiplied darkness threatened to submerge 
the carriers of the light. 
The Character 
of Physical Law 
Richard Feynman 
1965; 173 pp. 
$2.45 postpaid 
from: 
M.1.T. Press 
- 
50 Ames Street, Room 765 
Cambridge, Mass. 02142 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
_eye, like the eye in my room, but an eye on a vastly larger scale. 
Landing of Apollo 12 (above) 
The lunar module Intrepid is seen descending toward the Oceanus 
Procellarum (19 November 1969). This photograph was taken 
from the command module. After Intrepid had returned to orbit, 
and had been abandoned, it was deliberately crashed on to the Moon 
setting up crustal vibrations which lasted for almost one hour. 
The Galaxy be/ow 
The Galaxy, seen edge-on. The Sun is 30,000 light-years 
from the center of the system. The direction of the center 
is toward the rich star-clouds in the constellation of 
Sagittarius, but it cannot be seen through the obscuring 
intervening matter. 
cage 
= 
| 
. Out of the depths of a seemingly empty universe had grown an 
It looked out upon what | can only call itself. 
It searched the skies 
and it searched the depths of being. In the shape of manithad 
ascended like a vaporous emanation from the depths of night. 
i 
The nothing had miraculously gazed upon the nothing and was 
not content. 
It was an intrusion into, or a projection out of, nature — 
for which no precedent existed. The act was, in short, an assertion 
of value arisen from the domain of absolute zero. A little whitt > 
A 
wind of commingling molecules had succeeded in confronting its — 
own universe. 
Here, at last, was the rift that lay beyond Daiwin's tangled bane. mee 
| picked up a star whose tube feet ventured timidly among my 
fingers while, like a true star, it cried soundlessly for life. | saw 
— 
ora 
it with an unaccustomed clarity and cast far out. With it, | flung — 
| 
myself as forfeit, for the first time, into some unknown dimension 
of existence. 
: 
ae 
Around me in the gloom dark shapes worked ceaselessly at the 
dampened fires. My eyes were growing accustomed to their light. ae 
“We get it all, " the dump philosopher repeated. “Justgiveit 
time to travel, we get it all.” 
: 
e 
7 
: 
ne 
ee 
Men, unknowingly, and whether for good or itt, appear to be making 
their last decisions about human destiny. To pursue the biological 
analogy, it is as though, instead of many. adaptive organisms, a 
bet ne 
single gigantic animal embodied the only HE 
es 
‘future of the 
- 
world. 
: 
: 
=e 
Every time we walk along a beach some ancient urge disturbs us 
so that we find ourselves shedding shoes and garments, or scavenging 
among seaweed and whitened timbers like the homesick refugees 
of a long war. 
; 
It was the failures who had always won, but by the time they worl 
‘ 
4 
they had come to be called successes. This is the final paradox, 
al 
which men call evolution. 
o Moww 
The water at y is closer to the 
, 
moon and the water at x is - 
farther from the moon than 
the rigid earth. The water is _ 
pulled more towards the moon 
_ 
at y, and at x is less towards 
the moon than the earth, so— 
there is a combination of those 
two pictures that makes a 
double tide. 
Water pulled pavtty 
away fron cae by meow 
€ayth piled parely 
; 
‘ 
Jway from waters bu mom 
Autual Situstim 
ar 
