S Ay | 
‘bie 
hag. 
ist 
ee 
, 
~ 
we 
Up 
a 
; 
— 
Be The Pentagon of Power 
It’s easy to O.D. on Fuller, Kahn, and other technological 
_ 
prophets. Mumford is a fine, careful antidote. He examines 
the unexamined premises that lead to excess. 
—SB 
] 
_ The Pentagon of Power 
“Lewis Mumford 
> 
. 
1970; 496 pp. ~ 
} 
“ 
ar $12.95 postpaid 
ti from: 
j 
Harcourt, Brace & Jovanovich, Inc. 
_ 757 Third Ave. 
; 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
er 
= 
er 
\ 
____ Western man not merely blighted in some degree every culture 
__ 
that he touched, whether ‘primitive’ or advanced, but he also 
robbed his own descendants of countless gifts of art and crafts- 
__ 
manship, as well as precious knowledge passed on only by word of 
__mouth that disappeared with the dying languages of dying peoples. 
With this extirpation of earlier cultures went a vast loss of botani- 
cal and medical lore, representing many thousands of years of 
watchful observation and empirical experiment whose extraordinary 
discoveries——such as the American Indian’s use of snakeroot 
____{reserpine) as a tranquilizer in mental illness——modern medicine 
has now, all too belatedly, begun 
to appreciate. 
-: ; 
ra 
Scientific truth achieved the status of an absolute, and the incessant 
__ pursuit and expansion of knowledge became the only recognized 
____ categorical imperative. 
~ 
3 
» 
“4 
. 
Now, if the history of the human race teaches any plain lessons, this 
- is one of them: Man cannot be trusted with absolutes. 
SS 
Sea 
e 
__ Technics and Civilization 
By first read this book in 1957 then again in 1963 and then 
ey part of it in 1969. 
; @ Here is the first paragraph of the book. 
During the last thousand years the material basis and the 
~ cultural forms of Western Civilization have been profoundly 
modified by the development of the machine. How did 
this come about? Where did it take place? What were the 
chief motives that encouraged this radical transformation 
__ of the environment and the routine of life: what were the 
ends in view: what were the means and methods: what 
; 
_ unexpected values have arisen in the process? These are 
Bae: 
some of the questions that the present study seeks to 
M 
answer: 
: 
eS 
: 
i Bs Lewis Mumford isan unusual man. He is not an engineer 
or a scientist, he isn’t an historian or sociologist, you can’t 
identify him as a business man.or a literary manoran 
__ 
academic. He seems beyond all those roles. This made him 
‘especially attractive to me when | was 19 because his 
style smelled of the place | wanted to go. He is profound, 
poetic knowledgeable. He takes care of the large and small 
things in his books. 
i 
Technics and Civilization is a good book to start with; if you 
like it, there are many 
others of his to turn to. Myth of the 
of Man. 
‘How I have used him: all through my twenties | used him as 
my guide. 
- 
: 
: 
f 
[Suggested and reviewed by Steve Baer] 
The Ghost in the Machine 
_ Koestler’s latest book seems to be sharing the fate of Norman 
O. Brown’s Love’s Body: the book after the big influential 
one (Act of Creation, Life Against Death) is considered too 
far out, fragmented, excessive . . . and sells half-heartedly. 
levermind. Koestler here is doing useful dirty work: sav- 
aging rat psychology, exploring broader implications of bio- 
logical systems research, and foreseeing our imminent de- 
_ mise unless we organize our brain-use better. Which brings 
vim to drugs. He proposes research to find a chemical which 
i voluntarily disengage old-brain from new-brain—the inte- 
jor emotional kill-heavy unreprogrammable stuff from exte- 
jor rational flexible stuff. Our paranoia is accidentally des- 
ined in, he suggests, and may be designed out. 
—SB 
from: 
Henry Regnery Co. 
114 West Illinois Street 
’ 
Chicago, Illinois 60610 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
: 
See Epilog, 
S 
page 462 
7 Machine, Arts and Technics, The City 
in History, Transformations 
Unfortunately, if “meaning means association,” as Gray Walters ob- 
serves, then dissociation and non-intercourse must result in a de- 
crease of shared meanings. Thus in time, specialized knowledge, 
“knowing more and more about less and less,’’ finally turns into 
secret knowledge——accessible only to an inner priesthood, whose 
sense of power is in turn inflated by their privileged command of 
‘trade’ or official secrets. 
2: The printing press was a powerful a 
guage and so, by degrees, in thought. Standardization, mass-production,. and 
capitalistic enterprise came in with the printing press; and not without irony, 
the oldest known representation of the press, shown here, appeared in a 
Dance of Death printed’at Lyons in 1499. 
Technics and Civilization 
Lewis Mumford 
; 
1934, 1962; 495 pp. 
$4.25 postpaid 
from: 
Harcourt, Brace & Jovanovich, Inc. 
757 Third Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10017 
Technics 
and Civilization 
PE WISE Woe 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
DRAW BACK TO LEAP 
| 
It seems that this retracing of steps to escape the dead ends of the 
maze was repeated at each decisive evolutionary turning point. | 
have mentioned the evolution-of the vertebrates from a larval form 
of some primitive echinoderm. Insects have in all likelihood emerged 
from a millipede-like ancestor—not, however, from adult millipedes, 
whose structure is too specialized, but from its larval forms. The 
conquest of the dry land was initiated by amphibians whose ancestry 
goes back to the most primitive type of lung-breathing fish; whereas 
the apparently more successful later lines of highly specialized gill- 
breathing fishes all came to a dead end. The same story was repeated 
at the next major step, the reptiles, who derived from early, primitive 
amphibians-not from any of the later forms that we know. 
And lastly, we come to the most striking case of paedomorphosis, 
the evolution of our own species. It is now generally recognized that 
the human adult resembles more the embryo of an ape rather than an 
ult ape. 
The salutary truth of the old proverb ‘Haste Makes Waste’ was 
over-ridden by the new principle: 
‘Haste and Waste Make Money.’ 
Most of the important inventions and discoveries that served as the 
nucleus for further mechanical development, did not arise, as 
Spengler would have it, out of some mystical inner drive of the 
Faustian soul: they were wind-blown seeds from other cultures. 
After the tenth century in Western Europe the ground was, as | 
have shown, well plowed and harrowed and dragged, ready to 
receive these seeds; and while the plants themselves were growing, 
the cultivators of art and science were busy keeping the soil 
friable. Taking root in medieval culture, in a different climate and 
soil, these seeds of the macine sported and took on new forms: 
iY 
perhaps, precisely because they had not originated in Western Europe 
and had no natural enemies there, they grew as rapidly and 
gigantically as the Canada thistle when it made its way onto the 
South American pampas. 
But at no point—and this is the important 
thing to remember—did the machine represent a complete break. 
So far from being unprepared for in human history, the modern 
machine age cannot be understood except in terms of avery long 
and diverse preparation. The notion that a handful of Brisith 
inventors suddenly made the wheels hum in the eighteenth century 
is too crude even to dish up as a fairy tale to children. 
A tent, he thought. A room of space. 
It starts here by my 
left arm, goes up then down and ends over there on the far side 
of the other mat. That is what this room is, and that is all it is, 
no more and no less. This is its total size and shape and full 
dimension: a room of space marked off and set aside by these 
walls of red canvas that weren’t here yesterday probably and 
probably won’t be here tomorrow, but they are here today and 
| am here too inside the particular space they enclose. This space 
has always been here. But it has not always been a room, at least 
not this room, because it has never been enclosed by this particular 
tent before. The space is here. The time is now. And they are 
intersecting in a way that no other tent has ever caused before. 
This very space where | am lying has been tented over before, 
closed up in other canvas rooms, And so the question seems to 
be: would another tent around this same space re-create this 
room, or does this room disappear forever once this red tent has 
been removed and taken somewhere else? And what about when 
this tent is pitched in another place? If you pitch it in the Blue 
Ridge Mountains, take it down and put it up again in the Rockies, 
has the same room been in both places? Or is it another brand 
new room every time you pitch the tent again? 
"Comfortable, eh?” 
The woman’s voice startled D.R. and caused him to sit up- 
right. But her smile was so friendly and there was such charm in 
her strange voice, D.R. relaxed again and invited the woman to 
come in. The idea struck her as very funny. Giggling, she called 
to her companion. Soon both women were in the tent with Divine 
Right, sitting cross-legged on the other mat, drinking tea and 
smiling back and forth at one another, and at D.R. 
“| mean,” D.R. was saying, ‘’! mean, like, if you take this tent 
down, you know, take the poles down, fold the whole thing up, 
and move it fifteen yards . 
. . | mean, I’m just saying, if you move 
it, if you take it down and set it up again, where does the room... 
1 mean, like, we're in a room, right? The room is these walls. 
And these walls are here. They've here, and they’re here now. 
And so the question seems to be . . . the question seems to be, 
where does the room go when you take these walls down and fold 
them up and put them in your car?” 
The lady who didn’t speak English had begun to look a 
little troubled, perhaps even a little afraid. But when her 
friend interpreted she began to nod. Both women nodded 
and said, “Yes. Yes.” 
“‘Do you really know what I’m talking about?” 
“Of course,”’ said the woman who had borrowed the sugar. 
“You're talking about space and time.” 
“Fer out!’” D.R. exclaimed. “Far out!“’ Suddenly he had 
to get out of the red tent, and go and tell Estelle. Hastily he 
mumbled his thanks and his goodbyes, and crawled to the 
opening. Outside, he was so excited he tripped over a tent stake 
and fell on his ass. 
World Organism 
Whole 
Systems 
