As usual, wonderfully clear information from Golden Press. 
‘d have put this book in the-Learning section of the 
CATALOG only it has better camping information than the 
authoritative tomes here. Some tips I’ve never heard any- 
| where before. Profusely illustrated. | can hardly wait for 
the Golden Book of Dope. 
~ 
—SB 
| The Golden Book of Camping 
| William Hillcourt 
1971; 104 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
| from: 
Golden Press, Inc. ° 
‘c/o Western Publishing Co. 
P.O. Box 700 
|} “Racine, WI 53404 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
' IF YOU SHOULD STUMBLE AND SPRAIN AN ANKLE, DO NOT 
= 
TAKE OFF YOUR SHOE. INSTEAD, TIE 
A BANDAGE FIRMLY 
AROUND ANKLE AND SHOE BOTH. 
Being Your Own Wilderness Doctor 
My husband suggests you include Being Your Own Wilderness 
|. Doctor by good old B. Angier and Dr. E.R. Kodet. The medical 
guide is very uptodate, better than in How To Survive In The Woods, 
we feel. It is written with the problems (probably) encountered 
while hiking back in, etc. It is one we want to add to our personal 
library as soon as $ allows. In the front is a quick-reference index 
of stuff. While the supra-organic finks won’t be too keen on it 
because of its emphasis on new drugs, the rest of the info provided 
(sprains, dislocations, fractures, stitches, etc.) certainly would be 
useful. | worked two years in a hospital emergency ward and to me, 
this is about the best emergency guide I’ve come across that is 
written for non-medical people. 
fos 
Lewis 
a 
Ottawa, Ontario 
BEING YOUR OWN 
WILDERNESS 
DOCTOR 
Being Your Own Wilderness Doctor 
| 
E. Russel Kodet, Bradford Angier 
1968; 127 pp. 
, 
$1 50 postpaid 
Plus $.25 handling 
from: 
- Simon & Schuster 
_1 West 39th St. 
New York, N.Y. 10018 
TWE OUTOOORSMAN'S EMERGENCY, MANUAL 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The following medicine chest should be adequate for a longer stay, 
or when several people will be in the party. Double or triple the 
| quantities of drugs suggested for the light kit. Otherwise, make up 
as follows: 
Aspirin— 100 tablets will be a good idea. 
Aspirin with codeine— twenty-four. 
Darvon Compound— Eighteen tablets in addition to the above 
_ codeine will be adequate. 
: 
Compazine— twelve. 
| Lomotil— Thirty-six. 
| ‘Sulfasuxidine— Fifty tablets for one individual, one hundred for 
| several. 
Bismuth and paregoric— eight ounces, mixed in equal parts. 
Probanthine— Thirty-six. 
| The Sierra Club Wilderness Handbook 
_ Practical information distilled through years and years of 
Sierra Club outings. Covers a wider range (women, burros, 
rivers... ) than Colin Fletcher. 
—SB 
from: 
Ballantine Books 
101 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
The Sierra Club Wilderness Handbook 
David Brower, ed. 
; 
\ 
1951, 1968; 317 pp. 
| $.95 
Good pack horses and mules can carry a pay load of 200 pounds 
when expertly packed. One hundred and seventy-five pounds 
|. should be considered a maximum load on one’s first trip. The 
’ pack train can be counted on for 15 miles a day on good trails if 
_ 
it keeps pushing. These animals walk at a good clip and, unless 
their handlers are fast hikers, all personnel should be mounted. 
This becomes more important as the size of the party increases. 
Mules are led singly by pedestrians or are tied in groups of not 
more than five animals and are then led by aman on horseback. 
This 
is the “’string’’ of the professional packer. 
In addition to standard equipment, it will be wise with preschool- 
— 
age children to take along some portion of the home environment 
_ whose value is purely emotional, even at the expense of inconvenience 
d irreparable damage to the articles; these might be, for example, 
dy bears, toys, books, familiar clothes, or eating utensils. 
TO 
KEEP 
FROM 
BEING 
SCALDED, 
USE A MOP MADE 
BY TYING 
A WAD 
A 
OF CLOTH TO A 
NOTCHED - STICK. 
USE FELLING AX AS PLUMB LINE 
TO DECIDE FALL OF TREE. 
European Lightweight Camping Supplies: 
Bukta, Stockport, Cheshire, England 
S.W.1, England 
Pyridium— Eighteen. Take one every four to six hours. 
If this 
causes'stomach irritation, take with food, otherwise as needed. 
Pyridium will stop all urinary burning and distress. 
It will color 
the urine red. 
Gantrisin— 
Fifty. These are for treatment of a urinary tract infec- 
tion, as well as for the continued treatment of strep infections, 
pneumonia, and the like. They can be used if only a few antibiotic 
tablets are carried, and the condition requires additional treatment. 
Some individuals are sensitive to sulfa. Gantrisin should be dis- 
continued if there is rash, fever that comes and goes when the sulfa 
is used, Or nausea or vomiting. 
Erythromycin— Twenty-four or thirty-six tablets, depending on 
the remoteness and the number of people. 
} 
Pyribenzamine— Thirty-six. 
Dexedrine— Twelve 
Cortisone (prednisone)— Thirty. 
Sterile vaseline— One tube. 
Baciguent— One one-ounce tube of this antibiotic ointment should 
do. 
Zinc oxide— One tube, for chapped lips or for mixing in equal parts 
with Eugenol to make a temporary filling for a tooth. 
Eugenol— One-quarter ounce bottle will be adequate . 
Oil of cloves— small bottle, as only a few drops are needed for 
toothache. 
For surgical supplies, it is suggested that you take both a two-inch 
and a four-inch Ace or similar elastic bandage. Although optional! 
for a short trip, these are very handy for holding splints, etc. 
The amount of gauze and tape to pack along ‘is optional, particularly 
as it is always possible to improvise. For a long-stay, two packs of 
each type of suture material are recommended. 
You'll want a thermometer. Check this before taking a temperature 
and first shake its mercury down, if necessary. 
There is no absolute normal temperature. 
Ignore the red marks on 
the thermometer. They do not mean fever unless the temperature 
is over 99.69. Keep the thermometer in a case and out of the sun. 
In most cases, a temperature taken under the tongue or armpit will 
suffice. 
Costs 
Eighteen dollars should do it for the light kits, plus several dollars 
“more for the snakebite kit with suction cups. Add eight to ten 
dollars for antivenom. 
At Home in the Wilderness 
Unusual outdoor book, written by Sun Bear, who edits 
a pan-Indian magazine called Many Smokes. His fore 
is most relevant to North Woods and the Great Basin. 
_ cp 
At Home in the Wilderness 
Sun Bear 
1968; 90 pp. 
$3.00 postpaid 
from: 
Naturegraph Publishers 
8339 W. Dry Creek Rd. 
Healdsburg, CA 95448 
~ 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
As a preference of weapons, | like a .22 bolt action rifle for providing 
the weekly meat larder with small game. 
| prefer this to automatic 
as you are not as inclined to waste shells. When deer or big game 
hunting, | like a 30-30 for open country and use a shotgun in brush 
country with slugs or buck shot. Sometimes in the brush country, 
when deer hunting, | still carry a.slingshot for small game. 
Instead 
of old auto inner tubes, | use a surgical rubber for the slingshot. The 
new type of inner tube does not have the stretch that the old post- 
war tubes had. Many a ruffled grouse, gray squirrel or rabbit has 
‘found his way to my table, thanks to the slingshot. Back during 
the depression—W.P.A. days, there was hardly an Indian working 
on the road crew that did not carry a slingshot to get a little camp 
meat. 
CLEAN 
THE 
DISHES 
IN 
HOT WATER CONTAINING 
Thomas Black and Sons, Port Glasgow, Renfrewshire, 
Camptors, 16 Buckingham Pallace Road, Victoria, London 
DETERGENT 
OR SOAP. 
: 
IN LIGHTWEIGHT 
“we 
4 
« 
CAMP, PLASTIC SHEET 
TARES*PLACE OF HEAVY POTS. MAKE 
TWO RINGS OF STONES OR FRAME 
OF LOGS. DRAPE SHEET TO FORM 
TWO BASINS. PUT DETERGENT IN 
ONE, SANITIZER IN THE OTHER. 
Scotland 
Lembcke, Noerregade, Copenhagen K, Denmark 
Haus Altenberg, Derendorfer Strasse 1, Dusseldorf, Germany 
Bantam-Camping, Hirschengraben 3, Berne, Switzerland 
Moretti, Foro Buanaparte 67, Milan, Italy 
Fire Without Matches and Books 
A browseful hour spent with the WE catalog indicates that some 
readers are on the fire-without-matches kick. For what they’re 
worth, a few suggestions. 
Ordinary household steel wool , of the kind available in any grocery 
store, is the best tinder ever invented (if you really want to go first 
cabin, get the extra-fine kind that cabinetmakers use). Scratch a 
spark into a small glob of steel wool and watch it glow! Wrap the 
steel wool in a 
fist-sized glob of dried grass (say), blow on it for ten 
seconds, and presto! Instant fire. 
And where do you get the sparks for the above process? Froma 
cigarette lighter, man! A cheap cigarette lighter, used without fuel, 
provides an excellentsource of sparks. Some-spare flints can be 
carried inside the lighter, down where the cotton filler is located, 
and you have a lifetime source of sparks— so much handier than a 
hunk of quartz and a broken file. Of course, you can‘fill your 
lighter with fluid if you want, but that takes all the fun out of 
it... 
And now a real survival item: the reflector in a flashlight (head- 
light, etc.) can start a fire for you on a sunny day. Simply take your 
flashlight apart, aim the reflector toward the sun, and poke a bit of 
tinder up through the hole where the bulb fits (a cigarette works 
fine), extending it no more than half-an-inch (less may work better) 
and presto! 
again. (You don’t actually get fire this way; what you 
get is a lighted cigarette which, with patience and tinder like steel 
wool or dry grass should make fire for you...) This, of course, is 
an adaptation of the “Solar cigarette lighter” that was common in 
novelty shops a few years ago. 
Joe Smith 
Hood River, Oregon 
Wilderness Camping, $4.00/yr 
Bimonthly from: 
Wilderness Camping 
Box 1186 
Scotia, N.Y. 12302 
Ae 
"Mrs. Godsey wants to see me dead,” said D.R. “I’ve known 
that much all along.” 
3 
David shook his head, as if from profound sadness. “Well,”’ 
he said. “Personally, | think we ought to quit thinking about 
ourselves and put our minds on Emmit. 
He’s the one we've come 
down here to help.” 
“He's probably in on it too,” said D.R. “And you are too, 
and | know Virgil was.” 
David looked at D.R. grinning. ““You want to know what I! 
think?” he said. 
: 
D.R. waited for him to say. 
"| think you’re stoned on your ass."” He laughed, but D.R. 
was not amused, ‘All | know,” said D.R., “is | don’t trust you 
for a minute, and I’m not getting out of this bus till | feel pro- 
tected from all this bullshit going on.” 
There was a little silence between them then, and in it David’s 
tone and manner.changed. When he spoke again his voice had a 
new edge, a touch of cold impatience. ‘’Let me ask you a 
question,” he said. 
D.R. waited for him to ask it. 
"How'd you like it if | went in and got Mrs. Godsey, and told 
her to come out and talk to you about the bullshit. How would 
that be? 
I'll go in and tell her you’re feeling a little bad out here 
and ask...” 
D.R. didn’t wait for him to finish. He had seen the evil in 
David's eyes, he knew for sure now that David was in on it, and 
that he must run to get away or he would die. Without looking 
at David again he flung the door open, leaped out and took off 
running, with David chasing after, close behind. 
Coins 
— 
Camp 
Nomadics 
