A Yaqui Way of Knowledge 
This book records the experiences of an anthropology student 
who becomes the apprentice of Don Juan, a Yaqui indian “man 
of knowledge” who is also a “diablero”, a black sorcerer. It 
is a profoundly disturbing book since it opens up areas and 
ideas we usually dismiss or deny. Don Juan, over a period of 
five years, teaches the author a /ittle of his knowledge. He 
teaches through giving his apprentice various psycho-active 
plants: peyote, datura, and a mixture of psilocybin mushrooms, 
genista canariensis, and other plants. Each of these plants has 
its own way of teaching, its own demands and its own kind of 
power. For those of us who thought we understood psyche- 
delic effects this book reveals the rudimentary state of our 
knowledge. For those of us who have dismissed magic as a 
combination of hypnotism and stage effects we are confronted 
with powerful and effective magic which seems irrefutable. 
Don Juan himself appears as a powerful, indecipherable, wise 
man whose knowledge is both extensive and alien to our own. 
He offers to each of us the possibility of dealing with other 
realities, but he makes it clear that all these ways are danger- 
ous, difficult and once entered, cannot be put aside as simply 
another experience. 
The goal of his teaching is partially expressed as follows: 
The particular thing to learn is how to get to the crack between the 
worlds and how to enter the other world. There is a crack between 
the two worlds, the world of the diableros and the world of living 
men. There is a place where these two worlds overlap. The crack 
is there. It opens and closes like a door in the wind. To get there 
aman must exercise his will. He must, | should say, develop an 
indomitable desire for it, a single-minded dedication. But he must 
do it without the help of any power or any man... 
Nota book to be read for pleasure, a book which will affect 
you more than you may wish to be affected. 
[Reviewed by Jim Fadiman] 
(Why 
not read it for pleasure? It’s frontier Boswell and 
Johnson. —SB) 
A Separate Reality 
The Teachings of Don Juan ended with Castaneda ceasing 
his apprenticeship, profoundly afraid to continue. 
In this 
book he is back at it, and in place of the fear prevalent in 
the first book now it is humor that pervades the teachings, 
along with some phenomenal events. 
! don’t have words for the importance | consider these 
books to carry. 
=, 
A Separate Reality — Further 
Conversations with Don Juan 
Carlos Castaneda 
1971; 317 pp. 
$1.25 postpaid 
from: 
Simon & Schuster, Inc. 
TW. 39th Street 
New York, N.Y. 10018 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
“Please tell me, don Juan, what exactly is controlled folly?” 
Don Juan laughed loudly and made a smacking sound by slapping 
his thigh with the hollow of his hand. 
“This is controlled folly!” 
thigh again. 
he said, and laughed and slapped his 
“What do you mean... ?” 
“am happy that you finally asked me about my controlled folly 
after so many years, and yet it wouldn't have mattered to me in the 
least if you had never asked. 
Yet | have chosen to feel happy, as if 
| cared, that you asked, as if it would matter that! care. 
That is 
controlled folly!” 
“Would | feel differently if | could see?” | asked. 
“Once a man learns to see he finds himself alone in the world with 
nothing but folly,” don Juan said cryptically. 
He paused, for a moment and looked at me as if he wanted to judge 
the effect of his words. 
“Your acts, as well as the acts of your fellow men in general, appear 
to be important to you because you have /earned to think they are 
important.” 
; 
He used the word “learned” with such a peculiar inflection that it 
forced me to ask what he meant by it. 
He stopped handling his plants and looked at me. 
“We learn to think about everything,” he said, ““and then we train 
Our eyes to look as we think about the things we look at. We look 
at ourselves already thinking that we are important. And therefore 
we've got to fee/ important! 
But then when a man learns to see, 
he realizes that he can no longer think about the things he looks at, 
and if he cannot think about what he looks at everything becomes 
unimportant.” 
43 
‘Don Juan 
Learning 
See Epitog, page 744 
“Journey to Ixtlan” 
The Teachings of Don J uan: 
A Yaqui Way of Knowledge 
Carlos Castaneda 
1968; 276 pp. 
$1.75 postpaid 
from: 
Pocket Books 
c/o Simon & Schuster Inc. 
One W. 39th Street 
New York, NY 10018 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
He looked at me for along time and laughed. He said that learning- 
through conversation was not only a waste, but stupidity, because 
learning was the most difficult task a man could undertake. He 
asked me to remember the time | had tried to find my spot, and 
how | wanted to find it without doing any work because | had ex- 
pected him to hand out all the information. 
If he had done so, he 
said, | would never have learned. 
But, knowing how difficult it was 
to find my spot and, above all, knowing that it existed, would give 
me a unique sense of confidence. He said that while | remained 
rooted to my ‘‘good spot’’ nothing could cause me bodily harm, 
because | had the assurance that at that particular spot | was at my 
very best. | had the power to shove off anything that might be 
harmful to me. 
If, however, he had told me where it was, | would 
never have had the confidence needed to claim it as true knowledge. 
Thus, knowledge was indeed power. 
“Don’t get me wrong, Don Juan,” | protested. “‘! want to have an ally, 
but | also want to know everything i can. You yourself_have said 
that knowledge is power.’ 
"Nol he said emphatically. ‘“Power rests on the kind of knowledge 
one holds, What is the sense of knowing things that are useless?” 
“Take your grandson Lucio,’ | said. ‘Would your acts be con- 
trolled folly at the time of his death?” 
“Take my son Eulalio, that’s a better example,’ don Juan replied 
calmly, ‘’He was crushed by rocks while working in the construc- 
tion of the Pan-American Highway. My acts toward him at the 
moment of his death were controlled folly. When | came down to 
the blasting area he was almost dead, but his body was so strong 
that it kept on moving and kicking. | stood in front of him and 
told the boys in the road crew not to move him any more; they 
obeyed me and stood there surrounding my son, looking at his 
mangled body. | stood there too, but | did not look. 
| shifted my 
eyes so | would see his personal life disintegrating, expanding 
uncontrollably beyond its limits, like a fog of crystals, because that 
is the way life and death mix and expand. That is what | did at the 
time of my son's death. That's all one could ever do, and that is 
controlled folly. Had | looked at him | would have watched him 
becoming immobile and | would have felt a cry inside of me, 
because never again would | look at his fine figure pacing the earth. 
| saw his death instead, and there was no sadness, no feeling. 
His 
death was equal to everything else. 
Don Juan was quiet for a moment. He seemed to be sad, but then 
he smiled and tapped my head. 
Mi 
“So you may say that when it comes to the death of a person | 
love, my controlled folly is to shift my eyes.” 
! thought about the people | love myself and a terribly oppressive 
wave of self-pity enveloped me. 
“Lucky you, don Juan,” | said. 
can only look.” 
“"You can shift your eyes, while | 
He found my statement funny and laughed. 
“Lucky, bulll’” he said. ‘It’s hard work.” 
r 
“You think and talk too much. You must stop talking to yourself.” 
“What do you mean?” 
“You talk to yourself too much. You're not unique at that. Every 
one of us does that. We carry on an internal talk. Think about it. 
Whenever you are alone, what do you do?” 
“| talk to myself.” 
. 
heart the path is ready to kill him. At that point very few men can 
. Produces a terrible fatigue.” 
~* don't know; anything, | suppose.” 
. “The world is such-and-such or so-and-so only because we tell o 
’ 
ee 
Once aman has vanquished fear, he is free from it for the rest of h ae 
life because instead of fear, he has acquired clarity of mind which. . 
erases fear. By then 
aman knows his desires; he knows how to _ 
satisfy those desires. He can anticipate the new steps of learning, 
- and a sharp clarity surrounds everything. The man feels that nothi 
is concealed. 
And thus he has encountered his second enemy: “Clarity! That dena 
of mind. which is so hard to obtain, dispels fear, but also blinds. 
® 
t 
“| say it is useless to waste your life on one path, especially if that 
path has no heart.” 
“a 
“But how do you know when a path has no heart, Don Juan?" 
: ff 
; 
“Before you embark on it you ask the question Does this path have a= 
heart? 
|f the answer is no, you will know it, and then youmust 
= 
choose another path.” 
t 
“But how will | know for sure whether a Path has a heart Of note. 
<= 
“Anybody would know that. The trouble is nobody asks the question; 
and when a man finally-realizes that he has taken 
apath withouta 
= 
stop to deliberate, and leave the path.” 
“How shoutd | proceed to ask the question properly, Don Juan?" 
“Just ask it.” 
“| mean, is there a proper method, so | would not lie to myself and 4 
believe the answer is yes when it really is no?” 
3 
“Why would you lie?” 
. 
“Perhaps because at the moment the path is pleasant and enjoyable.”’. 
“That is nonsense. A path without a heart is never enjoyable. You 
have to work hard even to take it. On the other hand, a path with 
© 
a heart is easy; it does not make you work at liking it.” _ 
® 
1 
Nats 
7 
| 
3 2 
You have the vanity to believe you live in two worlds, but that is only 
your vanity. There is but one single world for us. We are men, and 
must follow the world of men contentedly, 
“But is this business of the dog and me pissing on each other uehe 
“lt was not a dog! How many times do! 
have to tell you that? This 
is the only way to understand it. It’s the only way! It was ‘he’ ais 
played with you." 
a 
“Let's put it another way, Don Juan. What | meant to say 
‘ 
is that if | had tied myself to a rock with a heavy chain! would 
have flown just the same, because my body had nothing to do 
with my flying.’’ Don looked at me incredulously. 
‘If you tie 
yourself to a rock,’ he said, “I’m afraid you will have to fly 
holding the rock with its heavy chain.” 
He listened without interrupting me. | talked for a long time. Then 
— 
he said: 
; 
= 
<i 
“All this is very easy to understand. Fear is the first natural enemy ee 
a man must overcome on his path to knowledge. Besides, youare 
curious. That evens up the score. And you will learn in spite of 
yourself; that’s the rule.” 
| protested for a while longer, trying to dissuade him. But he 
“seemed to be convinced there was nothing else | could do but 
learn. 
“You are not thinking i in the proper order,’’ he said. “’Mescalito 
actually played with you. That's the point to think about. gue 
don't you dwell on that instead of your fear?” 
“Was it so unusual?” 
; 
5 
“You are the only person | have ever seen playing with him. You 
are not used to this kind of life; therefore the indications [omens] 
bypass you. Yet you are a'serious person, but your seriousness is 
attached to what you do, not to what goes on. outside you. You 
dwell upon yourself too much. That's the trouble. And that 
ae 
“What do you talk to yourself about?” 
“I'll tell you what we talk to ourselves about. We talk about our 
world. 
[In fact we maintain our world with our internal talk.” 
“How do we do that?” 
“Whenever we finish talking to ourselves the world is always asit 
should be. We renew it, we kindle it with life, we uphold it with 
our internal talk. Not only that, but we also choose our paths as 
we talk to ourselves. Thus we repeat the same choices over and ove’ 
until the day we die, because we keep on repeating the same internal 
_ 
talk over and over until the day we die. 
: 
“"A warrior is aware of this and strives to stop his talking. This 
is — 
the last point you have to know if you want to live like a warrior. 
“How can I stop talking to myself?” 
‘ 
“First of all you must use your ears to take some of the burden 
from your eyes. We have been using our eyes to judge the world — 
since the time we were born. We talk to others and to ourselves 
mainly about what we see. A warrior is aware of that and listens 
to — 
the world; he listens to the sounds of the world.”’ 
! put my notes away. Don Juan laughed and said that he did not 
mean | should force the issue, that listening to the sounds of the 
world had to be done harmoniously and with great patience. 
“A warrior is aware that the world will change as soon as he stops ~ 
talking to himself,” he said, “and he must be prepared for that 
monumental jolt.”’ 
“What do you mean, don Juan?” 
ourselves that that is the way it is. If we stop telling ourselves th 
the world is so-and-so, the world will stop being so-and-so. At th 
moment | don’t think you're ready for sucha momentous blow, 
therefore you must start slowly to undo the world.” 
“The sole idea of being detached from 
n everything ! know aves me 
as 
the chills,” | said. 
“You must be joking! The thing which should give vou the chills 
is not to have anything to look forward to but a lifetime of doing 
that which you have always done. Think of the man who plants 
corn year after year until he’s too old and tired to get up, so he lies 
around like an old dog. His thoughts and feelings, the best 
of him, 
— 
ramble aimlessly to the only thing he has ever done, to plant corn. 
That, to me, is the most frightening waste there is. 
“We are men and our lot is to learn and to be hurled into incon: 
‘ 
ceivable new worlds.”’ 
“There aren’t any new worlds for us!”’ | exclaimed. 
“We have exhausted nothing, you fool,” he said imperatiyely. 
“Seeing is for impeccable men. Temper your spirit now, become a 
warrior, learn to see and then make the statement that there areno 
_ longer new worlds for our vision.” 
‘ 
ae. 
