Understanding Media 
Everybody talks about McLuhan, and everybody does 
something about him, and that makes it subjectively harder 
to get at him. He’s got other insights than what you hear 
about, so it’s worth the trouble to track him down, both 
his current sayings and his.prime collections. An excellent 
set of recent sayings was ina Playboy interview a few 
months ago ‘he foresaw the imminent demise of language 
into global telepathy: 
“The body of Christ). For prime 
collection the primest is Understanding Media. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Gerd Stern, then.] 
Said the Duke of Gloucester to Edward Gibbon upon the pub- 
lication of his Decline and Fall: ‘Another damned fat book, eh 
Mr. Gibbon? Scribble, scribble, scribble, eh, Mr. Gibbon?’ 
e 
As W. B. Yeats wrote of this reversal, “The visible world is no 
longer a reality and the unseen world is no longer a dream.’ 
e 
Not only does the visual, specialist, and fragmented Westerner 
have now to live in closest daily association with all the ancient 
oral cultures of the earth, but his own electric technology now 
begins to translate the visual or eye man back into the tribal 
and oral pattern with its seamless web of kinship and interde- 
pendence. 
Communication Arts 
a slicky for graphics freeks, 
and ad men, 
people who cut things out of magazines, 
THE MOST INFLUENTIAL BOOK BY THE MOST DEBATED MAN 
a 
OF THE DECADE 
“THE MOST IMPORTANT THINKER 
* SINCE NEWTON, DARWIN, FREUD, EINSTEIN, AND PAVLOW” 
naw YON ME 
RAL THIBUIE 
Marshall McLuhan 
Understanding 
Mediaz EXTENSIONS OF 
MAN 
Understanding Media 
Marshall McLuhan. 
* 
1964; 318 pp. 
$1 20 postpaid 
from: 
4 
3 
Signet—New American Library, Inc. 
1301 Avenue of the Americas 
r 
New York, N. Y. 10019 
; 
“"The oracle of the electric age” 
-1ire 
"The oracle of the New Communications’ 
wewawtox 
‘A SIGNET BOOK COMPLCIC AND UNAQMIOGCO 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Even slight changes in the environment of the very well adjusted 
find them without any resource to meet new challenge. Such is 
the plight of.the representatives of ‘conventional wisdom’ in any 
society. Their entire stake of security and status is in a single form 
of acquired knowledge, so that innovation is for them not novelty 
but annihilation. 
Hess: Products very definitely have a life span. Proctor and Gamble 
knows this, and they have very tightly documented projections on 
each one of their products. They know two or three years in advance 
when they can expect that product to peak out and start its eventual 
decline. 
Perhaps some studies should be made. 
It would behoove 
publishers to take that same point of view that the package goods 
to paste them on walls, 
manufacturers do and schedule a new product or some kind of 
christmas cards, 
revitalization of the old product to coincide with that peak before 
kleenex boxes, 
the decline. 
and catalogs. 
Coyne: You mean fire the publisher and the editor and start over? 
expensive but pretty. 
eecomiornmciads 
Communication Arts 
Richard Coyne, editor. 
f 
: 
$22.00 /yr (bimonthly) 
nan 
Communication Arts 
$3.50 single copy 
P.O. Box 10300 
410 Sherman 
Palo Alto, California 94303 
By the Late John Brockman 
John Brockman, though dead, is in his late twenties and 
agile in New York. His book is an interpretation of recent 
work in brain-study, information theory, and art. 
/t 
proposes that man is dead, replaced by a superior being— 
once he learns this—called invisible. 
Man is dead. Credit his death to an invention. The invention was the 
grasping of a conceptual whole, a set of relationships which had not 
been previously recognized. The invention was man-made. 
It was 
the recognition that reality was communicable. The process was the 
transmission of neural pattern. Such patterns are electrical, not 
mental. The system of communication and control functioned 
without individual human awareness or consent. The message in 
the system was not words, ideas, images, etc. The message was 
nonlinear: 
operant neural pattern. 
It became clear that ‘‘new 
concepts:of communication and contro! involved a new inter- 
pretation of man, of man’s knowledge of the universe, and of society.” 
Man is dead. “We're talking.”’ 
Every movie is the first movie. The brain goes into its stereotyped 
movie program even before the ticket is purchased. The information 
received by the brain from the experience of purchasing a ticket 
may be enough to activate the hormonal responses of the movie 
experience. Buy your ticket: See the movie. 
Silence 
Communications 
It is not necessary to say Yes to life. 
No one is there to listen; no one is 
interested in your words. 
. 
: 
By the Late John Brockman 
from: 
614 
John Brockman; 
1969; 166 pp. 
$6.95 
postpaid 
at Lice Bo i, One Lae 1 hid 
‘a 
ear 
+ * 
Dae 
AO og Bes es ee al ee 
2 
re 
IN seas ee PR 
or 
rn 
Meantime, the countryside, as oriented and fashioned by plane, by 
highway, and by electric information-gathering, tends to become 
once more the nomadic trackless area that preceded the wheel. 
Eventually the method of the counting board gave rise to the 
great discovery of the principle of position in the early centuries 
of our era. By simply putting 3 and 4 and 2 in position on the 
board, one after another, it was possible to step up the speed and 
potential of calculation fantastically. The discovery of calculation 
by positional numbers rather than by merely additive numbers led, 
also, to the discovery of zero. Mere positions for 3 and 2 on the 
1 
board created ambiguities about whether the number was 32 or 
: 
302. The need was to have a sign for the gaps between numbers. 
It was not till the thirteenth century that sifr, the Arab word for 
‘gap’ or ‘empty,’ was Latinized and added to our culture as 
; 
‘cipher’ (ziphirum) and finally became the Italian zero. 
Zero 
really meant a positional gap. 
‘Work,’ however, does not exist in a nonliterate world. The 
3 
primitive hunter or fisherman did no work, any more than does the 
: 
poet; painter, or_thinker of today. Where the whole man is involved 
there‘is no work. 
' 
If the phonetic alphabet was a technical means of severing the 
4 
spoken word from its aspects of sound and gesture, the photograph 
y 
and. its development in the movie restored gesture to the Human 
technology of recording experience. 
Man the food-gatherer reappears incongruously as information- 
- 
gatherér. 
In this role, electronic man is no less a nomad than his 
paleolithtc ancestors. 
2 
Everybody experiences far more than he understands. 
Yet it is 
experience, rather than understanding, that influences behavior, 
especially in collective matters of media and technology, where 
the individual is almost inevitably unaware of their effect upon 
him. 
. 
e 
It is a principal aspect of the electric age that it establishes a global 
| 
network that has much of the character of our central nervous 
system. Our central nervous system is not merely an electric net- 
work, but it constitutes a single unified field of experience. As 
biologists point out, the brain is the interacting place where all 
kinds of impressions and experiences can be exchanged and 
translated, enabling us to react to the world as a whole. 
Macmillan-Company 
; 
Front and Brown Streets 
hi 
Riverside, Burlington County 
\ 
New Jersey 08075 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The concept of ecumenical technology provides a frame of reference 
which points to clues about the invisible stage of evolution. The 
ecumenicism of technology is the unitive force that can make all 
brains perform the same operations simultaneously. Ecumenical 
technology is the key to the simultaneous universe of electronic 
communications. Consider that in the pre-electric age the operations 
of multitudes of brains in the world would function on different 
frequency bands. With electronics, an important event on television 
will mean that on the neural level millions upon millions will have 
a ray projected onto their retina, providing their brains with the 
information needed to maintain continuity. This:information 
measures a change in the brain‘s activity, a frequency modulation. 
~ 
Every brain working the same way, on the same frequency, the 
same wavelength, performing the same operations simultaneously. 
Not brotherhood, but unity. Ecumenical technology. 
oo) 
* a 
id 
ee Pe
es 
It was all invisible to man. The clash of generations, the crashing 
i 
down of institutions, the divisiveness—it was all invisible. Man never 
knew what was happening. To the invisible, it was a question of 
nonsynchronization of frequencies, where certain brains were 
unable to adapt to new rhythms of the information received within 
parameters consistent with continuity. 
It became a question of 
phylogenic suicide. To the invisible: out of phase. To man: 
out of mind. Who's crazy? 
> 
