Capitalism & Freedom 
A New Radical’s Guide to Economic Reality 
Government-managed economy. 
Or laissez-faire. 
Both 
ends are right theoretically, wrong practically, and the 
middle where we live is no prize either. 
| personally 
lean with these two toward the Let /t Be end of things, 
but I got nething more than glands to back my arguments, 
which are the economics of a quack biologist: 
evolution 
is continuity plus unfettered mistakes. 
Milton Friedman, distinguished Chicago-school economist, 
and Angus Black, hairy power-to-the-peopler. 
Both find 
government management of the economy consistently 
unjust, unfreeing, and usually in the dark about what’s 
going on. 
They have some proposals; specific, radical 
ones. 
—SB 
Capitalism & Freedom 
Milton Friedman 
1962; 202 pp. 
$1.50 postpaid 
from: 
University of Chicago Press 
5801 Ellis Ave. 
Chicago, Il. 60637 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
We could say to the rest of the world: 
We believe in freedom 
and intend to practice it: No one can force you to be free. 
That is your business. 
But we can offer you full co-operation 
on equal terms to all. 
Our market is open to you. 
Sell here 
what you can and wish to. 
Use the proceeds to buy what you 
wish. . 
In this way co-operation among individuals can be world 
wide yet free. 
Which if any of the great ‘‘reforms’’ 
of past decades has achieved 
its objectives? 
Have the good intentions of the proponents of 
these reforms been realized? 
Regulation of the railroads to protect the consumer quickly 
became an instrument whereby the railroads could protect 
themselves from the competition of newly emerging rivals— 
at 
the expense, of course, of the consumer. 
An income tax initially enacted at low rates and later seized upon 
as a means to redistribute income in favor of the lower classes has 
become a facade, covering loopholes and special provisions that 
render rates that are highly graduated on paper largely ineffective. 
A flat rate of 23-1/2 percent on presently taxable income would 
yield as much revenue as the present rates graduated from 20 to 
91 per cent. 
An income tax intended to reduce inequality and 
promote the diffusion of wealth has in practice fostered reinvest- 
ment of corporate earnings, thereby favoring the growth of large 
corporations, inhibiting the operation of the capital market, and 
discouraging the establishment of new enterprises. 
Monetary reforms, intended to promote stability in economic 
activity and prices, exacerbated inflation during and after World 
War | and fostered a higher degree of instability thereafter than 
had ever been experienced before.- 
The monetary authorities they 
established bear primary responsibility for converting a serious 
economic contraction into the catastrophe of the Great Depression 
from 1929-33. 
A system established largely to prevent bank 
Panics produced the most severe banking panic in American 
history. 
. .A housing program intended to improve the housing 
conditions of the poor, to reduce juvenile delinquency, and to 
- 
contribute to the removal of urban slums, has worsened the 
housing conditions of the poor, contributed to juvenile delinquency, 
and spread urban blight. 
In the 1930's, “labor” was synonomous with “labor union’ to the 
intellectual community; faith in the purity and virtue of labor 
unions was on a par with faith in home and motherhood. 
Extensive 
legislation was enacted to favor labor unions and to foster “’fair’’ 
labor relation. 
labor unions waxed in strength. 
By the 1950's, 
“labor union” was almost a dirty word; it was no longer synonomous 
with “labor,’’ no longer automatically to be taken for granted as 
on the side of the angels. 
Libertarian Periodicals 
From Ayn Rand to bushy anarchists there is an occasional 
agreement on means called libertarianism, which is a faith 
in laissez-faire politics/economics. 
{t’s damn near the only 
specific set of radical economic proposals around. 
The 
Jan. 71 issue of A is A has a directory of libertarian 
periodicals, scads of them. 
How to hate your government 
on principle. 
; 
—SB 
Ais A 
Directory Issue 
$2.00 postpaid 
from: 
Mega 
A31, 9730 Hyne Rd. 
Brighton, Michigan 48116 
Indiyidualist 
31 Parkside Gardens 
Landon, S.W. 19, England 
Edit: 
Henry.Meulen 
2623 Benvenue 
12 pp.. 5% x 8% 
Berkeley, Calif 
Offset, stitched 
$4.00/6. 
Every 2 mo. 
$2.40/6. 
Every 
2mo. 
Adv 
Did not answer inquiry 
1970 is the hundredth anni. 
Reported to contain articles, 
poetry, art, photography, humor. 
and fiction, 
ees 
versary of this journal of the 
Personal Rights Association. 
Short 
notes, comments, and reviews of 
economic and political affairs in 
Britain, 
Laissez-faire viewpoint 
Mr. Meulen is the author of 
Free Banking 
Capitalism 
Communications 
A New Radical’s Guide to Economic Reality 
a 
Angus Black 
a 
1971; 114 
a 
a 
$2.45 postpaid 
from: 
Holt, Rinehart & Winston, Inc. 
383 Madison Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Let’s quit fooling ourselves. 
Get rid of the progressive income tax. 
In its place put a flat 20-percent tax on all income over a certain 
minimum, while eliminating all escape clauses. 
We'll end up getting 
more from the rich than now, for it will no longer be worth it 
to them to cheat and look for legal loopholes with the aid of 
lawyers. 
As an added attraction, those high-paid tax lawyers will 
then be out of their jobs. Their salaries may suffer, and so more 
legal aid might be funneled to defending the poor in our rich man’s 
system of “‘justice’’. 
: 
Getting rid of our present income-tax mess would also save 
taxpayers a wad. 
How? 
By eliminating the time and effort that 
they and their accountants spend on filing returns. 
In a recent 
study the American Bar Association came up with the estimate 
that we had put a preposterous $1.3 billion of effort into filing 
1967 returns. 
‘ 
A highly respected member of the Budget Bureau got the 
figures together on how much was being spent on all poverty 
programs. 
He then calculated the total cost of direct payments to 
all families necessary to bring everyone above the “poverty line.” 
The conclusion he reached was that direct income payments would 
add up to less than half the present poverty-help outlays! 
Even 
the Wallace asshole around the corner may be convinced by the 
tax savings to him that unworthy niggers, hippies, artists, and 
bums. shoutd all get a minimum income, too. 
Another important benefit of direct minimum-income payments 
would be a renewed sense of dignity for the current welfare 
poor. 
We also could eliminate the numerous political connections 
so often tied to welfare and other such programs (as occur daily 
in Daleyland, U.S.A.). 
Think, too, of all those snooping social 
workers who will be forced to do something worthwhile for a 
change. 
; 
The minute you accept censorship of advertising you're paving 
the way for government Fascists imposing their uptight, puritanical 
outdated values on the rest of society. 
Being unduly deprived of 
bare tit on the tube is one thing. 
Big Brother is another. 
Why- don’t building codes work? 
The answer is easy. 
Special- 
interest groups, like producers and repairmen, have concentrated, 
well-defined goals. They can attack with vigor any changes in 
legislation that will harm them. 
Consumers, on the other hand, 
have millions of goals as the buyers of products. 
They area 
diversified group of people who cannot collect forces easily to 
fight legislation that may affect the production of only a small 
aspect of what some of them are buying. 
e 
For anarchy to work, however, all members of society must be 
fairly homogeneous. 
There would be open season on wops, 
wetbacks, kikes, niggers, hippies, polacks, redheads, and cripples 
if the Constitution didn’t exist. 
Many more of us would end up 
like Captain Amerika and Billy. 
! happen to want to keep my hair 
long and curly. 
You may not want ever to wear shoes. The only 
way to prevent the majority from forcing us to change is to 
have some guarantee of our rights enforced. 
Anarchy is not the 
answer. 
We should therefore keep government, but reduce its 
power over our economic, moral, and social lives. 
What should we do, then, to solve our problems?- Demand only 
a few simple realistic programs from the powers that be— 
enforce- 
ment of contracts, protection of constitutional rights, 
a minimum 
income, and the distribution of educational taxes by way of 
certificates. 
Anything more complex. will only give every rotten 
profiteer in the country a chance to fatten his purse at our 
expense. 
My plea is clear: 
less government today 
even less tomorrow. 
~ It doesn’t work! The results of this oversimplified approach, now 
_ 
If you want something for nothing, 
go jerk off. 
— 
f 
' 
Bob Weir 1970 
: 
BES HB RBS BSB RRBBRBRBRSERBRBKRRRBRERPRBRERBBESe 
The RSVP Cycles 
The RSVP Cycles 
is a scoring guide, a technical manual, 
highly illustrated and explicated in everyman language. 
It is 
a self-defining, singing, swinging score (S) of Halprin’s own 
performance (P), his electric, focused stash of resources (R} from 
the | Ching, to a controversial Northwestern-Minnesota football! 
play and his conscientiously objective valuactions (V),— 
a term 
he coined to suggest action and decision aspects of the RSVP 
cycles. 
Profusely graphic and photographic, excellently designed by 
1 
Barbara Stauffacher Solomon, 
The RSVP Cycles is a collector's 
item, a conversation piece de resistance, a real-time information/ 
slice delicacy. 
. .The “Driftwood Villages” story and photographs 
depicting experimental scoring and building of a community 
from available beach materials, provides precise images of the 
Halprins’ own Creative in-process use of RSVP cycles and frames 
q 
perspective for the assemblage pot-lateh of world-wide historical 
; 
goodies in the book. 
- 
! 
Using splendid examples such as his own project at Sea Ranch, 
a 10-mile long ecologically scored development on the Northern 
California coast and Lovejoy Plaza and Cascade, a public space 
in Portland, Oregon, scored for people participation, Halprin 
superimposes the natural geometry of his RSVP cycles against 
the functional perspective of his experience. 
. 
[Reviewed by Gerd Stern], 
[Reprinted from Landscape Architecture, Jan 77] 
The RSVP Cycles 
— 
pea 
Creative Processes 
in the 
- 
Human Environment 
Lawrence Halprin 
The RSVP Cycles: Creative Process 
in the Human Environment 
Lawrence Halprin 
~ 
1969; 207 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid 
from: 
George Braziller, Inc. 
One Park Avenue | 
- 
New York, New York 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
One of the gravest dangers that we experience is the danger of 
becoming goal-oriented. \t is a tendency that crops up on every 
hand and in every field of endeavor. It is a trap which goes like this: 
things are going poorly (in the realm of politics or religion or building 
acity or the world community or a personal relationship or whatever). | 
As thinking people we must try to solve this problem that faces us. 
} 
Let us set ourselves a ‘‘goal’’ upon which we can all agree (most 
goals after all are quite clearly moralistically based and incontro- 
AH 
vertibly “good ideas’’). Having set ourselves this goal we can then 
proceed posthaste to achieve it by the most direct method possible. 
Everyone can put his shoulder to the wheel, and systems engineering, 
— 
technology, and’our leader (or whatever) will get us to the agreed 
goal. 
on 
coming into general vogue, are all around us in the chaos of our 
cities and the confusion of our politics (or other politics—fascism 
and communism are clear statements of this approach.) It generates" 
tension in personal relationships by burying the real problems; 
it avoids the central issue of education, which is why today’‘s 
young people are dropping out; it is destroying the resources and 
physical beauty of our planet; and it avoids the basic issue. 
The relationship of the Tarot cards to the J 
Ching hexagrams 
is remarkable; both deal with universal ideas and problems facing 
r 
us all in life situations. Both connect us with the subconscious 
‘ 
deal with archetypal examples of what Jung has called the “collective — 
unconscious.” In both the divination process itself requires a 
: 
| 
letting go of the intellect—an acknowledgement of the rhythmic and 4 
unconscious forces at work in the universe. If we can give way 
to these forces and think of ourselves as part of the universal 
processes of living, of time in space, then we can release 
ourselves from preconceptions and hangups which prevent and 
block creativity. One of the important functions of scores is to make 
possible and accepted nonrational means of ‘‘getting at’’ problems. 
__ 
Both the Tarot cards and the J Ching have been used by musicians 
such as Pauline Olivieros and Morton Subotnik as compositional 
devices. Pauline Olivieros has said “| mix chance and choice somewh 
scandalously’’ (Notations, John Cage). 
‘ 
4 
