Melody Flute 
_ 
_ Musical instrumen ts are extremely satisfying tools. However, 
in most cases the cost for quality instruments is restric tive. 
The Melody Flute is an exception. 
For from $1.85 to 
| $2.60 one receives a nickel plated, six holed instrument of 
fine tonal quality, and an instruction manual. 
eo 
d 
: 
| 
It is easy to learn and a Jot of fun to play. 
\ 
lr 
ifs 
The Melody Flute Company. also sells a complete line of 
| 
recorders at very reasonable prices. 
[Suggested and Reviewed by Winston Fowlkes] 
Melody Flute 
$1.35 to $2.10 
ie 
(information free) 
from: 
Melody Flute Company 
P.O. Box 276 
Laurel, Maryland 20810 
No. O—Plastic Flute C with mouthpiece $1.00, Book $.50—total $1.50 
| No. 1—*Metal Flute C with mouthpiece $1.35, Book $.50—total $1.85 
| 
No. 1—*Metal Flute B flat with mouthpiece $1.85, Book $.50—total $2.35 
| No. 2—*Metal Flute B flat Professional type $2.10, Book $.50—total $2.60 
*Nickel Plated 
One price—any quantity. 
POSTAGE—Above prices include postage on orders amounting to 
| $20.00 or more. On smaller orders add $.75 per order for postage 
| and handling costs. 
BOOK PRICES—Books alone, $. 50 each, any quantity. Postage 
| prepaid on orders amounting to $10.00 or more. On smaller orders 
add $.75 cents for mailing costs. 
Bagpipes 
| For those who may be interested in bagpipes— 
acquiring 
/ them or playing them, there is an excellent company in 
“Scotland: 
Hugh MacPherson Ltd. 
| 
17 West Maitland Street 
! 
Edinburgh 12, Scotland 
Importing them yourself is about 4 times cheaper than 
buying one over here. 
Furthermore, the quality is ‘better 
| and the service is extremely courteous (although slow. 
It 
takes 3 months to get your bagpipe after ordering it) It 
| Is worth it however: A full sized bagpipe— 
full mounted 
_ in imitation ivory costs about $84.52 in American money 
| 
(at the current rate of exchange) (That’s another thing 
they'll do for you. 
They'll translate their prices into recog- 
nizable money symbols for Americans) 
In California, a 
| cheap Pakistani imitation. Scottish bagpipe costs $150. oo!!! 
‘Since MacPhersons’s things are made of selected African 
blackwood and constructed with an old fashioned pride-of- 
‘craftsmanship, there can be no comparison. 
Their fanciest, 
a full mounted model in H.M. silver either chased or engraved 
costs 170 pounds. 
(let someone else translate that into 
: 
dollars. | asked them for price translation of the low priced 
| models.) 
Furthermore, they even offer a miniature bagpipe 
» suited for indoor playing for about $50 (£22 10 0). They 
| 
sell also practice chanters, instruction books, collections of 
the Ceol Mor, maintenance accessories and. even superfluous 
| goodies like highland costumes for performers. 
They will 
send you a catalogue (of sorts) if you write them. 
| highly 
recommend the practice chanter for starting. 
It costs about 
_ $8 for the simplest and will teach you the notes and let you 
play tunes. An excellent beginners instruction book is the 
College of Piping Tutor Book |, by Seumas Masneill and 
| Thomas Pearston. 
Also order extra reeds with your chanter, 
The plastic types last a long time. 
i 
Ie 
: 
—Tiny Alice 
Los Angeles, California 
| 
Mittenwald 
| I suggest the Mittenwald Co. of Chicago, importers of fine recorders 
and other instruments. The recorder, as most everyone knows, is 
one of the easiest instruments to learn to play while still remaining 
a challenge to the virtuoso. They are great fun to play in groups 
(in “consort ”). There is a vast repertoire of music for them. They 
take up little room and aside from an occasional swabbing and 
_ Oiling of the bore are practically maintainance free. While cheap 
| Soprano recorders are available for two or three dollars, for the 
i person serious in getting going with them, I recommend the Adler 
or Moeck line of recorders. For really ambitious people there are 
i reproductions of baroque and renaissance oboes, bassoons, shawms, 
1 rackets, cornetts,, serrerire etc. available on special order. 
‘ 
William M. Fetcher 
CINC PAC flt Band 
— 
i ‘Mittenwald Company 
_ 1565 W. Howard St. 
: 
picaao. Mlinois $0626 — 
| flutes is largely aesthetic. Of course, the tonal quality of a shaku- 
Shakuhachi 
I make shakuhachi flutes. The shakuhachi is Japanese in origin, an 
end-blown flute tuned to a pentatonic.scale. Its music— one of the 
major genres of traditional Japanese music— flourished during the 
— 
Edo Period (1603-1867) and lasted well into the Meiji Era. It 
faded, finally, into relative obscurity when challenged by the per- 
vasive absorption of Western classical forms. Only recently, in 
Japan, has there been a revival of traditional shakuhachi music. 
The effect of Western imperialist penetration on indigenous Third 
World cultures ts especially apparent in the case of Japanese music. 
By the ‘Twenties and ‘Thirties the majority of contemporary 
musicians were firm in their preoccupation with Bach and Beethoven. 
Attempts to integrate classical Japanese forms into this scheme 
resulted in such perversions as grandiose emulations of Western 
symphonic music. Perhaps less pretentious, but just as perverse, 
was the incorporation (or exploitation) of traditional music into 
Pop Culture in Japan. Just the other day I came across a recording 
entitled something like The Shakuhachi Goes Latin. 
Well, perhaps 
Xavier Cugart does play an occasional gig at a zen monastery. 
Historically, the shakuhachi went through a number of heavy trips. 
During different periods it was favored by men of diverse tempera- 
ments and ways of life: from mendicant Buddhist monks to lower- 
class Samurai (who, disarmed of their swords by the Emperor, 
carried the Shakuhachi as a weapon, a club) to merchants. 
The 
appeal of its subtle qualities is near universal 
Before I tell you of my experiences with this flute, I'll quote a very 
concise descnption of it by Kishibe Shigeo in The Traditional 
Music of Japan: “The instrument is made from the lowest section 
of the bamboo. The average diametre of the pipe is 4-5 cm, and 
the inside of the pipe is almost cylindrical. ...The standard length 
| 
of 1.8 (Japanese feet) or 54.5 cm is used for solo pieces (when 
played in ensemble with Koto and Shamisen its léngth is varied 
according to the pitch of the other instruments) and the pitch of 
the open pipe, d, is regarded as the standard pitch. Five fingerholes, 
four in front and one in the back, give the following six tones in the 
standard pipe, d (closed), f, g, a, c, d’. By various fingerings, half- 
holing, and controlling the angle of the mouthpiece against the lip, 
all of the twelve tones can be produced. The mouthpiece at the 
top of the pipe is made by cutting the edge diagonally toward the 
outside. 
This type of mouthpiece makes it possible for the player 
to control the pitch by changing the angle, which in turn produces 
a delicate change intonation not possible on a Western recorder 
(blockflote) having a whistle type of mouthpiece. As well as the 
delicate changing of intonation and various kinds of portamento, 
the noise of blowing on the edge of the mouthpiece creates an 
artistic effect. Of course the mellow timbre of the rather thick 
bamboo pipe is the basic characteristic of the instrument.” The 
inherent dispassion of any attempt to discribe the sound of the 
Shakuhachi is brought home forcefully only by the sound ttself. 
In short, one must expeience it and then create it himself. My 
own experience of seven or eight months has been a love affair 
with this sound. At times, still, it eludes me and laughs at me; at 
other times it caressess me. Always, however, it reflects some 
fundamental aspect of my being. The shakuhachi ts a barometer 
fo the soul; it cannot be cheated. It never les. That is, unless I do. 
To get down to business: I was turned on to the shakuhachi by 
some friends in Berkeley. It was magnetic: a whirlwind romance. 
This éxperience, I later discovered when selling shakuhachis, was 
typical. Before it was introduced to me, I had never heard of it 
nor read of it in books. Soon after purchasing my first flute, I 
tried my hand at making one. Other people who came around 
saw my flutes and went through the same trip I did. The idea of 
selling them, however, seemed absurd. Most people find tt difficult 
to play at first, usually have never heard of it before, and are 
otherwise skeptical about this thing which is so simple yet so 
mysterious. 
For most people, purchasing one is more often 
than not an act of faith. (Out on the street selling them I can see 
that faith in the eyes of those few who fall in love with the sound. 
The look is one of assurance and certainty. About what I cannot 
put into words. I have no idea.) In any event, my skepticism 
proved mistaken. In the months that I have attempted to sell 
shakuhachis several people have expressed a desire to own one. 
There seems to be a sizeable demand for good but inexpensive 
flutes of this kind. But not much of an outlet. I myself know of 
only one or two such outlets, and they deal with a small clientele 
on a selective basis. The waiting lists are long; the prices are 
expensive. 
What I am proposing to do is provide good inexpensive 
shakuhachis to those who desire them. It’s as simple as that. 
One final thing which I would like to emphasize. The flutesI am 
presently making are not authentic shakuhachis. Avoiding semantic 
hassles this merely means that they are not made of the root end 
of the bamboo. Such root pieces already aged (the optimum 
length of aging is three years for a piece of bamboo that is to be 
fashioned into a shakuhachi) are very difficult to come by. As 
suchI have been using pieces close to the root. As farasI am 
concerned the basic difference between such flutes and root-end 
hachi varies with a number of factors: 
the size of the bore, the 
length of the flute, the texture and density of the bamboo, etc. 
The flutes I have made resemble, in their tonal quality, the 
mellowness of the root-end shakuhacht. 
They are fashioned and 
tuned like authentic instruments. I am presently in the process 
of trying to score better quality bamboo: root pieces whichI can 
age properly, then fashion into shakuhachis. (Perhaps I can run 
a request in the Catalogue.) 
That’s about it. There are also a number of books about and 
recordings of shakuhachi music which I think people may be inter- 
ested in. These too are kind of obscure and difficult to track down 
through regular.channels. I can provide a list of them if desired. 
Monty Levenson 
P.O. Box 294 
Willits, California 95490 
Violin Repair 
I learned violin repairing from a guy right out of a Breugel 
painting in Boston. 
Information which he passed along also is 
useful if you desire to repair a guitar. 
So— some how to and 
some where to. 
Ts 
Cracks in top or back. 
on a violin you can take the top off and pull the split 
together— 
I would not suggest trying this on a guitar 
because of various construction differences. 
Best thing 
to do is fill crack with shaped splinters of wood (shaped 
to crack), spruce, or whatever the top is made of. These 
Should be stuck in with a white glue Elmers is O.K. but 
“Tirebond,”’ (which is slightly yellow (otherwise like elmers) 
is Best. 
Can be gotten at some hardware store— 
look 
around for it. More expensive but waterproof and strong. 
If can’t find it is made by: 
The Franklin Glue Company 
Columbus Ohio U.S.A. 
eight fluid ounce container (like elmers) @ $1.40 
2. 
Tiny cracks can be fillered with “Tirebond.” 
3. 
Broken neck. (guitar) where neck joins body. 
- 
glue on with epoxy— 
drill hole and insert 1/2 inch wood 
(birch usually) dowel. 
coat the dowel with “tirebond” 
before you stick in. DO NOT fill hole with glue and 
drive in peg (dowel) this will give neat demonstration of 
how hydraulic pressure can split wood. 
If tremendous 
strength is necessary use a thick metal screw. 
(drill out 
first) 
Broken neck other places. 
Never have done it but some kind of pin, peg or dowel 
between the two pieces is highly recommended. 
for finishing materials and glue of other types for use in guitars 
or furniture (either main business) 
H. Behlen Bros. Inc. 
f 
10 Christopher St. 
New York, N.Y. 10014 
ask for catalogue and price list (they are separate) 
They are 
prompt. 
1-2 weeks. 
(on east coast anyhow) they make a 
really beautiful white shellac. 
Home recipe No. 1 for a good violin/guitar varnish 
combine their “‘sandarac”’ resin in a jar with alcohol 
(rubbing type) enough alcohol to cover the sandarac and 
1/3 more. 
leave it to dissolve for a week (until it all dissolves) 
drain through cheesecloth 
combine with equal part of good quality white shellac 
Powdered colour can be used with it. 
(get this at some 
art stores) 
Thin with alcohol 
P 
SPALL 
Stephen Till 
Concord, Mass. 01742 
Then it was water-time again and Leonard went outside while 
D.R. helped his uncle up and held the jar. 
@ 
Leonard wanted to know if there was anything he could do. 
I'll 
stay with him tonight if you want me to. 
° 
D.R. shook his head. I’m okay. | sleep a little, off and on. 
If 
you feed his animals | can take care of this end here just fine. 
e 
Leonard handed D.R. a ten dollar bill. You'll need to eat, he 
said. D.R. took it and thanked him and started down the hall. 
Hey Leonard! 
e 
Hey Leonard, | wonder if you’d mind calling Marcella. 
® 
Momma already has, said Leonard. She called her this morning. 
I'll see you later, D.R. said. 
r) 
And then it was time to shave him. 
e 
Two orderties came in to shave Emmit, young fellows, not par- 
ticularly eager for the job. The doctor wanted it done, they said. 
And D.R. didn’t argue. 
1'll do it. 
I'll do it, D.R. said, and he took the tools from the orderlies and 
they went away. 
e 
Scissors. 
C) 
Comb. 
e 
Razor, shaving cream. 
I’m going to give you a haircut and a 
shave, Emmit. 
Wind Instruments 
Communications 
Hunh? 
