ee 
er 
ee 
; 
What is Design? 
There really is no better introduction to all that is admirable 
in design. Baer had to remind me of the book: | had for- 
gotten how much | owe to it. It is full of the kind of lore 
and wisdom that you immediately take for your own. 
—SB 
The book is wonderful. Here is 
aman trying to tell the truth 
about design and about our lives and civilization. 
| never 
heard of him, when | read his book | can’t understand why. 
Steve Baer 
What is Design? 
Paul Jacques Grillo 
1960; 238 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
from: 
Paul Theobald and Company 
5 N. Wabash Avenue 
Chicago, I|Ilinois 60602 
Don’t work for success , whether success to you means a degree, 
position, money, or honours. You cannot reverse the process of 
nature: 
since no fruit in spring can produce flowers in the fall, you 
cannot visualize the harvest before the seed matures into a healthy, 
full-grown plant. A hot house may grow faster products, but none 
that can compete with.the authentic product of the soil. This atti- 
tude will force you to give ‘‘no”’ for an answer more often than “‘yes’’, 
if you are concerned only with the integrity of your production. 
Then your “YES” will be uncompromisingly sincere. The worst lie 
is the lie you give to yourself as an excuse for success, 
Burn your idols once in a while, and start all over again. 
e 
Flout the rules as often as you can in a masterly way. Recipes are 
for poor cooks. Great chefs make them. The canvas of rules and 
codes that you have had to learn must be transgressed with vision 
for any art to be born. 
Finally, during all your life as an artist, learn through painstaking 
experimentation, exercise, and practice, how to acquire a masterly 
knowledge of your craft. 
% 
See Epilog, page 511 
IN DESIGN, THE SHORTEST DISTANCE BETWEEN TWO POINTS 
IS NOT THE SFRAIGHT LINE, BUT THE SLALOM 
Slaloms.are curves of natural acceleration and deceleration that 
represent trajectories constantly controlled by man. 
A ballistic missile obeying only initial thrust and gravity will describe 
an orbit mathematically perfect of the conic section family. But as 
soon as man sits at the controls, he will: make his own orbit, his 
slalom. 
Curves described by a man in movement——a car, a bicycle——on a 
flat surface, are two dimension slaloms, or curves of the second order 
that may be approximately analyzed in quadratic equations. 
A moutain climber, an airplane, a submarine——as well as a skier—— 
describe third order-slaloms that may be analyzed in cubic equations. 
The interest of slalom curves for the designer lies in the fact that 
they are all curves of least effort, and thus represent the most 
economical pattern of flow. 
You may buy this sernallyee contemporary piece of design in any 
authentic Chinese hardware shop. ° 
Prevatling 
winds 
The Normans, great seafarers before settling down to farming, have 
devised their farmhouses exactly like the hulls of their ships, anchored 
them upside down on the land, the bow to the wind and the stern 
sheltered toward the east. They are like ships that heave-to in a gale. 
The single chimney crowns the western end of the roof and draws at 
the least breeze, while the eastern end is wide open like the captain's 
quarters in the stern of a galleon. 
The Ganges Shark (Platypodon gangeticus) 
Design Methods 
The discipline of design is misunderstood by many people. 
This book is going to help explain things. The author 
briefly presents some of the obvious design failures in our 
industrial society, such as traffic congestion, noise pollution, 
etc., and says. ...“’ These need not be regarded as accidents 
of nature or as acts of God, to be passively accepted: they 
can instead be thought of as human failures to design for 
conditions brought about by the products of designing. 
Many 
will resist this view because it places too much re- 
sponsibility on designers and too little upon everyone else. 
If such is the case then it is high time that everyone who is 
affected by the oversights and limitations of designers got 
in on the design act.” 
The book outlines traditional approaches. 
It then goes ahead 
and gives a really useful review of thirty five recently de- 
veloped strategies, a brief description of each, and a way of 
determining which will likely be most useful to you. Many 
of the strategies are ways of organizing your information so 
that your intuition can be well enough informed to act. 
Several of the strategies are mainly concerned with prepar- 
ing your head so that it may intuit effectively. Methods of 
analyzing the results are also presented. 
As far as | know, this book is the only overall collection and 
review of strategies. | see it as a truly useful tool. 
I’ve 
ordered one myself. 
[Reviewed by Jay Baldwin] 
Design Methods 
J. Christopher Jones 
1970; 407 pp. 
$1 4.50 postpaid 
from: 
John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 
605 Third Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10016 
&Chgadiphny Sogn 
DESIGN METHODS 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Design 
Industry 
The complicated.pattern of the network on the left can be 
transformed into the simple pattern on the right by re-arranging the 
nodes. This is analogous to the ‘‘change of set’’ which can enable 
one to-solve a previously insoluble problem. 
Choosing strategies and methods, 75-86 
(see also Strategy) 
Complexity, 27-42 
evolutionary plateau,-33 
search spaces, 42, 55 
Computer-aided designing, 72 
Convergence, 68-9 
Costs of designing, 56-7, 65, 68 
Craft evolution, 15-20, 82 
Craftsmanship, 15-20 
Critical path scheduling, 56 
Creativity, 66 (see also Design process; 
Skill; Intuitive methods) 
discussed as a ‘black box’ process, 46-9 
explanations of it, 28-30 
cybernetic view of designing, 15, 20, 46-58 
originality, 29 
Cybernetic view of designing, 15, 20, 46-58 
(see also Creativity) 
Cyclic processes (see Instability of design 
problems) 
McDonnell Voodoo F-101A (1954) 
Earthen hut built, by 
the Bamikele tribe 
in the Cameroons. 
“Evil is like 
TI remember a priest explaining the zig-zag arch to me: 
arhinoceros. It always charges in straight lines. We break the line 
of the bridge so that evil cannot cross, but falls over the edge to 
drown in the deep water in the middle”.’ From A Portrait of Japan, 
Laurens van der Post, 1968. 
; 
e 
Thinking from Several Viewpoints 
This is similar to ‘thinking in parallel planes’ but is directed at the 
solution to the design problem instead of at the process of finding 
it. At its most elementary it seems'to be the stating of objectives . 
by describing the product as something that ‘provides a means’ of 
doing something else. 
. (a) study the design situation 
(b 
(c 
provisionally identify the needs that the design is to satisfy 
identify and analyze the Primary Functional Need (this is the 
need that if not properly satisfied makes the fulfilment of all 
other needs pointless) 
' 
(d explore alternative principles upon which a means of satisfying. 
the primary need could be based 
(e complete, i 
in outline only, a design capable of satisfying both 
primary and secondary needs 
(f) review the functional effectiveness of this design 
(g 
(h 
review the material and work content in producing the design 
se 
dies review component quality, i.e. freedom from welding distortion, 
refinements, etc. 
_ 
. 
7
