This Magazine is about Schools 
Now THIS MAGAZINE, a socialist journal about the 
politics of the Canadian nationalist movement... 
also poetry, photoessays, book reviews. 
—PC 
THIS MAGAZINE is about 
JREAMING in the BEDS of ACADEME 
he Rochdale Experience 
by SARAH SPINKS 
95 cents 
HOW TO SOFTEN YOUR HARD SCHOOL 
1. USE THE CORRIDORS. Sell the steel lockers for 
scrap and use the money to buy cushions. 
Scatter 
the cushions around the corridors and let the 
students lie around on the floor. Have the floor 
cleaned very seldom but leave brooms about. 
2. TAKE ALL THE AV EQUIPMENT OUT OF THE 
STOREROOM AND PUT IT IN THE CORRIDORS. 
Let the students use it when they feel the need for 
it. Let them break projectors, tape-recorders and 
viewers. Let them take machines home, steal tapes. 
3. HIRE A XEROX MACHINE AND PUT IT IN THE 
CORRIDOR. Place no restrictions whatever upon 
its use. Find a kid willing to keep it running. Put 
a thermofax copier in the corridor too. 
Witha 
their hinges. Rollup the carpet and sell it. Let the 
students cut up the books with scissors. 
Provide 
scissors, paste, paper. 
With the money provided by 
the sale of the carpet, buy: 
a. A bucket full of magazines. 
HOW TO HARDEN YOUR SOFT SCHOOL 
1. ESTABLISH A SYSTEM FOR SUPPLYING THE 
iS} 
w 
SCHOOL WITH MATERIALS. On several 
occasions I have walked into a free school and 
been bitterly disappointed by the lack of materials. 
No school dedicated to making a decent mess 
should open its doors before it has obtained two 
truck loads, say 5 tons, of begged, borrowed and 
° 
stolen information in the shape of string, glue, 
magnets, records, magazines, books, paints, test-tubes, 
chemicals, transistors, advertisements, felt pens, 
catalogues, newspapers, fossils, rocks, microscopes, 
herbs, wire, acetate, slide-rules, typewriters, tapes, 
film stock, stuffed owls, old pieces of machinery, 
cloth, thread, animals, bones, fishing flies, 
photographs, paintings, slides and films. 
Treat 
information like water from a tap. 
PUT YOUR FINANCES UPON A SOUND 
FOOTING. 
ORGANIZE A FEW BOOKS. 
Wade into the sea of 
information, clear a few shelves, and arrange thirty 
reference books in alphabetical order. Stick 
MAKE A HARD ROOM. Set aside at least one 
room to represent the organized side of 
life. If you 
can afford it, build a laboratory with identical 
stools, gas taps, electrical outlets and small sinks 
for washing retorts. Have a ten-week course in the 
from: 
This Book Is About Schools 
“How do you change things?” asks Satu Repo in her 
_ 
forward to This Book. Change the schools or start néw 
ones. Then start a magazine to help spread the word and 
try to find out what all the others out there are doing at 
é 
|
their schools. This Magazine Is About Schools was started. 
)
by a community of people in the Toronto, Canada areawho 
| 
were also working in a complex of free schools there. It is 
an exciting, widely-read publication and an important piece 
of scripture for the New Schools movement. 
This Book Is 
About Schools offers the best of the magazine and is a fine 
i
collection of essays on a wide variety of subjects. They are 
divided into three categories: growing up in America, the 
> 
| 
alternative school, and the institutiqnal put-down. 
 . 
; 
i"
[Reviewed by Kit McClanahan] 
numbers on their spines, stamp them NOT TO BE 
: 
. 
mountain of paper and acetate. 
REMOVED and chain them to the shelf. While you 
This Book is About Schools 
i 
are in the mood, padlock a few doors and windows. 
Satu Repo, ed. 
4. OPEN UP THE LIBRARY. 
Take the doors off 
1970; 457 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
Random House 
457 Hahn Rd. 
5 
Westminster, MD 21157 
6. A bucket full of comics. 
c. A‘bucket full of newspapers 
d. Several incomprehensible thick medical tomes. 
Try McAinsh, Toronto. 
e. A number of books in Chinese, Japanese, 
Sanskrit and other languages. 
laboratory for which interested students have to 
sign in advance and attend at regular times. If you 
have no science teacher, immediately appoint a 
meticulous chemist. 
This Magazine 
$3.50/yr. (6 issues) U.S. 
$3.00 /yr. (6 issues) Canada 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
STOP CHOOSING NEW STUDENTS to fit the 
wr 
from: 
f. A barrow-load of old books from the Old 
community. The next person whom you choose 
- 
ah 
This Magazine 
Favorites Bookstore, Toronto. 
should be unlike anyone else you've ever had 
: 
56 Esplanade St. East 
g. Photographs, maps, geological maps, plans, 
before. 
,! 
blueprints, research papers. 
= 
- 
Suite 407 
Toronto, Canada MSE IA8 
“The Risk of Being a Social Scientist in 
Canada Is that One May Die Laughing.” 
Big Rock Candy Mountain 
; Big Rock /s a Portola Institute publication with a format 
similar to WHOLE EARTH CATALOG and contents it calls 
Resources for Our Education. 
|’m close enough to it to 
have the same complaints | do about the CATALOG: 
it is 
too wishful, too little experienced in grimy school work, 
too self-indulgent in listing material of interest only to the 
editors. But we get some of Big Rock’s mail, and | also 
know that its readers are glad to have it, especially when 
they're up against the classroom wall needing sympathy, 
wisdom, diversion, and tools to get through the day with. 
—SB 
Big Rock Candy Mountain 
Cia Holdorf, Hal Hershey, eds. 
OUT OF PRINT 
from: 
Big Rock Candy Mountain 
Portola Institute, Inc. 
540 Santa Cruz Avenue 
Menlo Park, CA 94025 
Back issues available: 
$4.00 for six 
$1.00 each for biggies 
$.25 each for skinny, 
newsprint ones 
THE PUPPET THEATRE HANDBOOK 
An excellent book. 
If you can have only one technical book, 
this it it. Originally written as an Army manual for Special 
Services, it is still unsurpassed. The Puppet Theatre Handbook 
covers puppet construction of all types including some experi- 
mental puppets; costume design and construction; puppet 
stages; scenery, lighting, properties, and special effects; and 
brief information on production. 
The Puppet Theatre 
Handbook 
Batchelder, 293 pp. 1947 
$7.50 
from: 
Harper & Row 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
< 
Free Schools 
Learning 
See Epilog, pages 720-723 
QUICK HARD SUMMARY OF HOW TO OPEN 
A FREE SCHOOL AND KEEP IT OPEN 
People: 
If ten people will contract (written) to work to support 
one or two of their number to run a school, if necessary, you can 
open a school. 
e 
Money: Good books fanatically kept. Planned purchasing with 
ferocious control of buying and nothing retail. About $2500 for 
day school and $4000 for boarding. ETS in Princeton will sell you 
a weighting for scholarships or you can make your own simple one. 
Everyone should pay something, Get one semester up front— banks 
will loan readily to parents, but not to you. The nicest people will 
deadbeat, poor mouth, lie, cheat, and otherwise do you in. Conser- 
vatives pay their bills much more faithfully than liberals and forget 
about so-called radicals. 
Be warned. Don’t go for or even want 
Federal or State money. 
It’s not worth it. (Repeat 9 Billion times.) 
Records: 
.Print an honest transcript form that syas you are an 
ungraded school and what follows are teacher rankings of grade and 
class equivalents. Give them names and credit hours on the usual 
16 high school hours. Givea class rank equivalent. 
It is a waste of 
time to try to convert admission offices and you owe your brats an 
honest attempt at a prediction. 
Use STANDARD TESTS and give 
HONEST scores. Academic tests are a gas in a free school, a game. 
Don’t cheat at soccer, why cheat at test? If the kid can’t play 
you know he’s in trouble. Keep complete health records, make 
sure you have a waiver for hospital and doctor care on each kid 
from his mama and daddy. Keep an ongoing log of every sick 
complaint and every vitamin pill etc. 
Food: 
make up a two or three week cycle of meals. Stick to it. 
: 
Calculate from the cycle what-you need and buy cheaper whole- 
sale. 
If you change (you own plan not reverse) also change the plan. 
Expect to lose and buy two or three sets of tableware and dishes 
every year. 
Work: 
teachers at a free school are mostly about cleaning, sorting 
clothes, carrying garbage and all that stuff most Ami’s hire niggers 
to do. America moves on invisible black grease and when you give 
it up, and give up the coercions that keep juniors in line, etch! 
Slime-o and bubonic plague unless you rotate the schlock work 
and don’t hesitate to seaparate yourselves from people who won't 
do scut work. World is full of incompetents and lazies. 
Curriculum: 
you've got to make a formal one for the State, urp. 
Otherwise, tons of books, magazines, newsprint, things. Hard 
areas. Reference room, serious art, library, labs run like SS training 
camp. Books are treasures not things to be left in rain— same for 
microscopes etc. As long as kids are free to have acres of soft areas 
and lilligag, what harm? They may learn that expensive equipment 
is liberating if kept operating, but tyrannical if schlocked up. And 
you may have exceptional free school that produces some grads with 
competence to help save Mama Earth with green technology instead 
of more editors and other paper and tree users. 
Officials: 
write every conceivable agency and invite their inspection, 
- supervision, admonition, guidance, etc. Be as open as your heart. 
Cooperate them to death. Of course, as soon as possible set aside 
legal fund for inevitable clashes when they want you to crucify 
babies on 5000 year old idiocies. But don’t fight the health 
department, nor the fire, they are really on your side, if dumb at 
times. Question is, is shitting on the grass a more important freedom 
than having happy.self regulating kids? Of course you get along 
with these parasites better if you wear straight uniform, but those 
struggles are up to you. Me, |’d rather the kids be free for their 
childish games and me have more time for goodies than have long 
hair etc. 
Finally: Opening and keeping open a free school has much more 
to do with being touch, anal, compulsive, cantankerous and agile 
than with love. The rea/ genius at Summerhill is Mrs. Neill who sees 
to the kitchen, housekeeping, bills and bi/ling. 
\ cannot too strongly 
tell You how all those nice folks you take in for nothing will be the 
first to run screaming to the fuzz about how vile you are— meantime 
owing you for the medicine, food and clothes you bought their brat. 
Them facts ain't nice, but there aren't too many free schools around 
and | made about six of them. There is an illusion, created by 
Summerhill Society, New Schools Exchange and others that the 
woods are just full of free schools. What the woods are really full 
of is dreamers— and some bastards who want the publicity but 
make the kids play whatever their hanger happens to be. | know 
one “free’’ school makes the babes pray over their food— out loud. 
Man, Jesus said not to do that! 
Sa 
: 
5 ; 
The book presents few conclusions and perhaps more bravado than 
\ 
wisdom. 
It reflects the views of people who are pursuing a rather 
4 ty 
desperate search for life forces in our civilization. Whether it will 
i 
be possible for us to combine our strong heritage of bourgeois 
4 
freedom with the interconnectedness necessary to create a viable 
j 
human community no one knows. The world may be pushing us 
~ 
too-hard, forcing us to shift our priorities in such a way that the 
will to keep our schools together gradually is dissipated. But at the 
present time they give one answer — maybe too sane an answer — 
- 
to the question: “What Can | Do Right Now?” 
—Satu Repo 
| can honestly say that for four months | did nothing, and | fell into _ 
my method of teaching those kids purely by, accident. And it 
oe | 
wasn't until I'd been doing this for six months that | realized that 
ei 
| had actually hit upon the best way of teaching them. Suddenly, 
— 
after Christmas, | looked up and realized that | had created a 
aa 
beautiful second grade monster — fifteen of them, beautiful 
a 
| 
monsters — and | had done it by doing nothing. 
It wasn’t because 
| 
| had said, ‘I'm going to let them be free.’’ They had to be free 
; 
| 
because | just, | just abdicated. 
Big Rock editors Hal Hershey and Cia Holdorf 
| keep getting plaintive letters (many dittoed) asking for reading 
lists, histories, thoughts and other bull shit. 
; 
x 
i 
The way to open a free school is to open it. 
The way to run a free school is to hand those parts which are kid 
= = 
stuff (learning) to the kids and ferociously plan and organize those 
things which are daddy/mommy stuff (food, shelter, tools, special 
— 
care) without getting too tight abot the separation. 
want it open, hardnosed about business, and WORK. America’s most — 
3 
lamented four letter word. 
iy 
This is all ex cathedra from 
George von Hilsheimer, 
! 
| 
2 
. 
) 
The way to keep a free school open is to be compulsively sure you 
; 
|
himself 
| 
|
1 
