| The King and the Corpse 
! know of no better myth-telling than this, and no better 
_ myths, You've got Abu Kasem’s Slippers, and then 
| Conn-eda and John Golden-Mouth, and four romances 
| from Ki ing Arthur that take deeper turns than T. H. White, 
_ the King and the Corpse, and the prize: the ancient 
— 
_ Hindu Romance of the Goddess, plumbing the involuntary 
creation. Collected by Heinrich Zimmer, edited 
by Joseph 
Campbell. There’s few books with such a blend of 
extravagance and intelligence, and none that come so 
| ‘close to the heart of education. 
- 
—SB 
[Suggested by Jim Fadiman] 
That night, in the bed, Sir Gawain could not at first bring himself to 
turn and face her unappetizing snout. After a little time, however, 
she said to him: 
‘‘Ah, Sir Gawain, since | have wed you, show me 
your courtesy 
in bed. It may not be rightfully denied. 
If | were 
fair, you would not behave this way; you are taking no heed of 
wedlock. For Arthur's sake do kiss me at least; | pray you, do 
this at my request. Come, let us see how quick you can be!” 
The knight and loyal nephew of the king collected every bitof 
his courage and kindness. 
‘‘| will do more,” he said invall gentle- 
_ ness, “I will do more than simply kiss, before God!"’ And he 
turned around to her. And he saw her to. be the fairest creature 
that ever he had seen without measure. 
She said: ‘‘What is your will?’ 
“Ah, Jesu!" he said, ‘what are ye?” 
“Sir, | am your wife, securely; why are ye so unkind?” 
“Ah, lady, | am to blame; | did not know. You are beautiful in 
my sight——whereas today you were the foulest wight my eye 
had ever seen! To have you thus, my lady, pleases me well.”’ 
And he braced her in-his arms and began kissing her, and they 
‘made great joy. 
“Sir,” she said, ‘‘my beauty will not hold. You may have me thus, 
but only for half the day. . And so it is a question, and you must 
choose whether you would have me fair at night and foul by day 
before all men’s eyes, or beautiful by day and foul at night.” 
“Alas,"" replied Gawain, ‘‘the choice is hard. To have you fair at 
‘night and no more, that would grieve my heart; but if | should 
decide to have you fair by day, then at night | should have a scab- 
rous bed. Fain would | choose the best, yet know not what in 
this world | shall say. My dear lady, let it be as you would desire 
it; | rest the choice in your hand. My body and goods, my heart 
and all, is yours to buy and sell; that | avow before God.” 
“Ah, gramercy, courteous knight!’ said the lady. ‘‘Mayst thou 
be blessed above all knights in the world, for now | am released 
from the enchantment and thou shalt have me fair and bright 
both night and day.”’ 
: 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| The Masks of God 
ant to ar history while reading mythology? Want to understand 
for the first time why those crazy Mayans and other South American 
civilizations used “Christian” symbols, attributed by European 
| 
so-ca'led Christians who came a-calling swords in hand, to works of 
| 
the Devil? Want to see why Sumer and Egypt and Mexico are so 
similar? Want to really fumigate your fancy with the Mother 
Goddess and then enjoy Christmas all the more? Want to under- 
stand why the patriachism of Judaism drives a woman nuts if she’s 
neolithic at all, and why those paleolithic hunters may have had 
something important to say about self experience and a coming to 
an understanding? Want to hear who said the voice of the Universe 
is as gentle as a woman’s? Want to sally forth jnto the world of the 
spirit, in other words, to really dig where Lewis Mumford says it’s 
at: humanity’s penchant for dreaming? 
When you come right down to it, imagination really seems to be 
the point: we differ from our furred and feathered fellows because 
we dream of things that are not and of things that never were. We 
believe, and in our believing brings madness and the sublime into 
reality. 
Get Joseph Campbell and blow your preconceptions. 
You'll never 
| 
see yourself the same again. 
[Reviewed by J. A. Pollard] 
Br 4 viking Compas Book 
UB: 4 king compass boot 
the masks.cf God 
ORIENTAL 
the masks of God 
PRIMITIVE 
MYTHOLOGY 
THE MASKS OF GOD 
|| Joseph Campbell 
| 
Primitive Mythology 
"1959; 504 pp. 
eS 
$3.75 postpaid 
| 
i is i ; 
ai 
On 
1 
= 
iosenh 
| 
Oriental Mythology 
campbell 
campbell 
I 1962; 561 pp. 
$3. 75 postpaid 
Occidental Mythology 
RODE 
Sed 
mE 
a 
hie ep a ees 
1964; 564 pp. 
z 
the masks of God 
the masks of God 
*: 
a 
i 
OCCIDENTAL 
~~ 
CREATIVE 
‘$3 78 poretd 
MYTHOLOGY 
MYTHOLOGY 
: 
Creative Mythology 
; 
| 1968; 730 pp. 
“84. 
50 postpaid 
| 
from: 
joseph 
& joseph 
campbell 
campbell 
Niking Press, Inc. 
- 
625 Madison Avenue 
- 
| 
New York, N.Y. 10022 
| or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
MYTHOLOGY 
THE KING AND 
THE CORPSE 
ise 
The King and the Corpse 
Heinrich 
Zimmer; Joseph Campbell, ed. 
1948; 338 pp. 
ah 
$3.45 postpaid 
‘ 
es & 
from: 
- 
= 
BY HEINRICH ZIMMER 
Princeton University Press 
Princeton, N. J. 08540 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The involvement of the gods in the web of their own creation, 
so that they become, like Abu-Kasem, the harried victims of 
their creatures, entangled in nets of not quite voluntary self- 
manifestation, and then mocked by the knowing laughter of their 
own externally reflected inner judge: this is the miracle of the 
universe. This is the tragicomic romance of the world. The gods, 
the fairy powers, are always in danger of self-enchantment. 
Like 
the youth Narcissus, they become fixed to their own reflected 
images—momentarily reluctant to pass with the passing of time, 
and critically in need of the shocking, shattering blow of the 
redemptive catastrophe. Man is the little world creator; God, the 
great. Each, surrounded by the figments of his own mirrored depths, 
knows and suffers the cosmic self-torment. And the fata! power 
that enchants them both is ever the great goddess, Maya, self- 
delusion, the supreme creatrix of all the worlds. 
Brahma, sinking still further into the limpid darkness of his own 
interior, struck a new depth: suddenly the most beautiful dark 
woman sprang from his vision, and stood naked before everyone’s 
gaze. 
» She was Dawn, and she was radiant with vivid-youth. Nothing like her 
had yet appeared among the gods; nor would her equal ever be 
seen, either among men, or in the depths of the waters in the 
jeweled palaces of the serpent queens and kings. The billows of 
her blue-black hair were glistening like the feathers of a peacock, 
and her clearly curving, dark brows formed a bow fit for the God 
of Love. Her eyes, like dark lotus calyxes, had the alert, questioning 
glance of the frightened gazelle; and her face, round as the moon, was 
like a purple lotus blossom. Her swelling breasts with their two 
dark points were enough to infatuate a saint. Trim as the shaft 
of a lance stood her body, and her smooth legs were like the stretched- 
Out trunks of elephants. She was glowing with little delicate 
pearls of perspiration. And when she found herself in the midst of 
her startled audience, she stared about at them, in uncertainty, 
then broke into a softly rippling laugh. 
- 
Man with a dart, Castellon 
Primitive Mythology 
e 
Gawain, on the other hand, was one who had spent his life not 
posing in arole unearned, conferred upon him by anointment, but 
in quest, sincerely, for his object of desire, and when he found her 
— after years, not days — he was transfixed, established in his own 
true center, and knew exactly where he stood. She was, again, the 
bereaved Orgeluse. But he was no toy king. There was no threat, 
no fear, either of man or of spirit, that could put him off his course 
or freeze him to a halt. His trials were proper to his own life and he 
was consequently their match: 
hence, at one with his Lady Soul; at 
peace with her; and in the fair castle of love, the master of his 
world. 
It remained only to make peace as well with the world beyond the 
broad stream. 
... 
Sitting chatting with his grandmother at the window, Gawain with 
a start of joy espied on the meadow on the other shore the first of 
Arthur's host arriving with banners, colors, spears, and immediately 
setting up pavilions. With love in his heart, tears in his eyes, he 
watched, then ordered all his own castle company — knights and 
ladies, squires and pages — to make ready with their own banners 
and tents to cross and welcome his uncle’s court, Arthur and his 
queen were introduced to Arnive, the king’s mother, Sangive, his 
sister, and the sisters of Gawain. 
‘All kissed and laughed, wept and 
laughed and kissed again.. Moreover, many a knight who had been 
mourning Gawain’s death came smiling into his tent. But the 
seneschal Keie only murmured, “God surely does work wonders! 
Where did Gawain get all these “queens?” 
Next day a third host, that of Gramoflanz, arrived, and Gawain then 
rode forth onto a broad plain, alone, for exercise, where he saw a 
lone knight galloping his way, wearing armor redder than rubies. 
... 
® 
Humor is the touchstone of the truly mythological as distinct from 
the more literal-minded and sentimental theological mood. The 
gods as icons are not ends in themselves. Their entertaining myths 
transport the mind and spirit, not up to, but past them, into the 
yonder void; from which perspective the more heavily freighted 
theological dogmas then appear to have been only pedagogical lures: 
their function, to cart the unadroit intellect away from its concrete 
clutter of facts and events to a comparatively rarefied zone, where, 
as a final boon, all existence — whether heavenly, earthly, or infernal 
— may at last be seen transmuted into the semblance of a lightly 
passing, recurrent, mere childhood dream of bliss and fright. “From 
one point of view all those divinities exist,’ a Tibetan lama recently 
replied to the question of an understanding Occidental visitor, 
“from another they are not real.'” This is the orthodox teaching 
of the ancient Tantras: 
‘‘All of these visualized deities are but 
symbols representing the various things that occur on the Path’’; 
The course of the world runs awry, but therewith it goes directly 
to its goal. The catastrophe of the previously unforeseen is what 
breaks the world progression forward, and the moment the catastrophe 
has come to pass it appears to be what was intended all the while. 
For it is creative ina deeper way than the planning creative spirit 
supposes. 
It transforms the situation, forces an alteration on the 
creative spirit, and throws it into a play that carries it beyond itself 
carries it, that is to say, really and properly into play, and into a 
play that entrains the entirety of creation! The planner, the watcher, is 
compelled to become the endurer, the sufferer. Such a metamorphosis 
into the opposite, into the absolutely alien, is what throws the knots 
that reticulate the net of the living whole and mesh the individual 
alive into the fabric. 
Shiva's visage became radiant with joy._In the presence of all 
the Holy Ones he lapsed, absorbed, into introverted vision. Then 
he permitted himself to sink to the floor, legs crossed, shut his 
eyes, and sank into his being to the depth of the Being Sublime. 
His body began to glow, so that the eyes of all the Holy Ones 
present became dazzled. And the moment he reached quietude 
in this immersion, Vishnu’s Maya fell away from around him, 
and his entire body burst into such a radiance that even his own 
hosts were unable to bear the blast. Vishnu passed into him, 
poured into him as the pure Light of Heaven, and disclosed 
within Shiva’s body, to the eye of his inner contemplation, the 
whole lotus-spectacle of creation and the procession of the world. 
Blissful and serene, beyond the senses and their universes of 
distinctions, alone and pure, beholding everything, the abstracted 
One experienced within his own being the Being Supreme, that Sub- 
stratum of all Unfoldments. He beheld, riveted in contemplation, how 
the One Substance exfoliates into all the delectations of the world. 
Shiva, bereaved, distracted, was conducted gently by his guru, 
Brahma, out of the gates of the city of his life’s loss and away into 
the Himalayan peaks of snow. There, walking together, the two 
came upon a little lake of solitude, clear, and delightful to the 
mind. Brahma perceived it first. 
And seated here and there about the quiet shores were saints 
and sages in absolute meditation; two or three stood bathing 
in the cool crystal waters, sending ripples out across its mirroring 
of the blue and immobile, high, mountain sky. Many migratory 
birds, shrilly crying, were coming from all directions to flutter 
down into its lotus-bordered waters—pairs of splendid ruddy geese 
beautifully spreading out their great wings in exultation, 
cormorants with their hooked bills, gray-winged geese, and 
Siberian cranes, stalking about the shores, floating on the surface 
of the lake, peering into the waters, themselves beautifully 
reflected—and, occasionally, with a sudden thunderous beating of 
hundreds of wings, all lifting out of the lake into the sky, to circle 
in many companies, and presently return to-settle, flutter, and 
preen. And beneath them, in the crystalline depths, 
were swimming fish of innumerable brilliant hues, 
visible as they darted in and out among the lotus 
stems. Lotus buds, lotus chalices, blue lotuses and 
white were abundant there; and the vegetation about 
the shores was luxurious and of cool shade. 
as well as a doctrine of the contemporary psychoanalytical 
schools. And the same metatheological insight seems to be what 
is suggested in Dante’s final verses, where the illuminated voyager at 
last is able to lift his courageous eyes beyond the beatific vision of 
Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, to the one Eternal Light. 
e 
a“ 
. in reality, Slayer and Dragon, sacrificer and victim, are of one 
mind behind the scenes, where there is no polarity of contraries, but 
mortal enemies on the stage, where the everlasting war of the Gods 
and the Titans is displayed. 
In any case, the Dragon-Father remains 
a Pleroma, no more diminished by what he exhales than he is 
increased by what he repossesses. 
He is the Death, on whom our 
life depends; and to the question ‘Is Death one, or many?’ the 
answer is made that ‘He is one as he is there, but many as he is in 
his children here.’ 
Creative Mythology 
TUESDAY: THE MAGIC RABBIT 
Until the work was done, Tuesday was very much like Monday. 
D.R. spent the morning turning under the manure he had spread 
the day before. He planted the little new-ground with worms and 
humus from the pit, then worked a while tearing boards off the 
side of the house, dressing them and stacking them in the barn. 
Already the stack was waist-high and five boards across, enough to 
begin the work of converting the stalls to rooms. D.R. had an 
impulse to commence it then and there, but he knew he ought to 
talk to Leonard first. He could probably bang a room of some sort 
together by himself; but this was no crude project he had in mind. 
There are ways to go about certain kinds of work; there are rules in 
building and D.R. wanted to learn them. He wanted to do a good 
job, and know something truly useful when he was done. So he 
left the room alone till Leonard could come up to advise him on it, 
and worked some more in the afternoon on the new worm pit 
instead. 
D.R. worked the whole day through, going from job to job. It 
tired his body in that satisfying way he’d come to relish the last few 
days, and after supper he was glad to sit in Emmit’s rocking chair on 
the front porch and rest himself a while. His body sank into the 
chair and without reluctance let go of the day in anticipation of the 
night. 
5 
But D.R.’s mind wasn’t ready for that yet. His mind was still 
excited, eager for some action, some outlet for the words that had 
built up through the day and gone unsaid. And so he went in the 
house and got his tablet and his pen, came back to his chair and 
wrote another letter to the Flash. 
; 
: 
(continued) 
Myth 
Learning 
