Patterns of Survival 
As far as I’m concerned education and evolution are concep- 
tually indistinguishable. 
If you know how to evolve you're 
ahead of whatever game is going. For example, the way to 
be safe from dinosaur bites is to be little, fast, furry,.warm- 
blooded, and smart. 
(The way to be in hazard of dinosaur 
bites is to be another dinosaur.) We're talking about 
education in the school of survival, which every school is, 
_ despite pastel walls. 
This well-illustrated and personal book is the best introduction 
I’ve seen to the fascination of evolutionary perspective on the 
living and dying world we take part in. 
SB 
PATTERN Ss 
Patterns of Survival 
: 
== 
Lorus and Margery Milne 
1967; 339 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
from: 
Prentice-Hall 
- See Epilog, 
page 727 
i 
~ Never Cry Wolf 
Farley Mowat:is a good wolf-watcher. 
. 
—jd 
c 
Never Cry Wolf 
Farley Mowat 
1963; 176 pp. 
$.75 postpaid 
from: 
Dell Publishing Co. 
750 Third Avenue 
New York, New York 10017 
“or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
» Quite by accident | had pitched my tent within ten yards of one 
of the major paths used by the wolves when they were going to, or 
coming from, their hunting grounds to the westward; and only a few 
hours after | had taken up residence one of the wolves came back 
from a trip and discovered me and my tent. He was at the end of a 
hard night’s work.and was clearly tired and anxious to go home to 
bed. He came over a.small rise fifty yards from me with his head down, 
his eyes half-closed, and a preoccupied air about him. Far from 
being the preternaturally alert and suspicious beast of fiction, 
this wolf was so self-engrossed that he came straight on to within 
fifteen yards of me, and might have gone right past the tent without 
seeing it at all, had | not banged my elbow against the teakettle, 
making a resounding clank. The wolf's head came up and his eyes 
opened wide, but he did not stop or falter in his pace. One brief, 
sidelong glance was all he vouchsafed to me as he continued on his 
way. 
e 
Apart from the fact that there are only a fixed number of homesteads 
available to the wolves, their abundance is apparently further 
restricted by a built-in birth-control mechanism. Thus it happens 
that when food species are abundant (or the wolf population is 
scanty) bitches give birth to large litters—sometimes as many as eight 
pups. But if the wolves are too numerous, or food is scarce, the 
number of pups ina litter may fall to as few as ong or two. This 
_ 
is also true of other arctic animals, such as rough-legged hawks. In a 
year when the small mammal population is high, roughlegs will 
lay five or six eggs in a clutch; but when mice and lemmings are 
scarce, they may lay a single egg or they may not breed at all. 
Peterson Field Guide Series 
The thing that is so nice about these guides is that everyone 
_ of them has a Jot of stuff in it. The books are easy to use 
and well-illustrated enough so that if you look carefully 
you can identify most any 
species of bird, flower, bug, etc. 
that you meet up with. Too bad they aren’t all paperback 
so that you could put all of them in your pack. 
[Reviewed by Terri Gunesch] 
, at present, there are 19 books in the series. they are generally 
| $5.95 each. here is the list: 
) * 1. A Field. Guide to the Birds (paper $3.95) (eastern land 
a 
and water birds) 
_ 
: 
_1R. A Field Guide to Bird Songs (two 12-inch LP records) 
| 
* 2. A Field Guide to Western Birds 
($4.95) 
| 2R. A Field Guide to Western Bird Songs ( three 12-inch LP 
i 
records) ($14.95) 
3. A Field Guide to the Shells (Atlantic and Gulf Coasts) 
4. A Field Guide to the Butterflies (Eastern North America) 
5. A Field Guide to the Mammals ($5.95) 
6. A Field Guide to Shells of the Pacific Coast and 
Hawaii (including the Gulf of California) ($3.95) 
‘Englewood Cliffs, N. J. 07632 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The Web of Life 
A good anecdotal 
introduction to ecology. 
The Web of Life 
John H. Storer 
1953, 1956; 128 pp. 
$.95 
postpaid 
from: 
: 
New American Library 
1301 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, N. Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
In the White River National Forest in Colorado a heavy wind blew 
down several groups of Englemann spruce trees. 
It broke many of 
the tree roots, weakening the flow of sap, but left enough roots in 
the ground to keep the trees alive. Thousands of beetles gained 
entrance to these weakened trees and found a paradise to work in; 
for the underside of each tree, buried ina mat of crushed branches, was 
protected from the hunting woodpeckers. The most effective of these 
woodpeckers, the arctic three-toed, hunts this area chiefly in winter, 
but now, with the fallen trees covered by snow, the beetles were 
completely safe from their chief enemy and they multiplied. 
First they killed the fallen trees. Then the dead trees became a focus 
of infection for the surrounding forest, as more beetles in search of 
food attacked the healthy trees nearby. The potent sap of these growing 
trees drove out the first attackers, but millions more followed, 
puncturing the: bark and weakening the sap flow until later hordes 
gained easy entrance. These swarms outgrew the appetites of the 
woodpeckers, whose numbers were adjusted to a normal beetle 
population. 
Ina few years the entire forest, covering many thousands of acres, 
was dead or dying. Four thousand million board feet of timber 
stood rotting where it died, most of it wasted; for in this rough 
mountain country it was not worth building roads to bring it 
out. There was no young, productive forest left to justify the 
cost of these roads. 
The entire forest was doomed, and all the great dependent community 
of living things had lost its food and shelter. This community too 
must go, simply because one of its smallest members had escaped 
its natural controls and found too much prosperity. 
SHORT-TAILED HAWK 
Dark phase 
* 7. A Field Guide to Rocks and Minerals ($6.95) 
8. A Field Guide to the Birds of Britain and Europe ($5.95) 
9. A Field Guide to Animal Tracks ($5.95) 
10. A Field Guide to the Ferns and Their Related Families 
(Northeastern and Central North America) ($5.95) 
11. 
A Field Guide to Trees and Shrubs (Northeastern 
and Central North America) ($3.95) 
*12. 
A Field Guide to Reptiles and Amphibians ($5.95) (Eastern 
North America) 
13. A Field Guide to the Birds of Texas and Adjacent States 
*14. A Field Guide to Rocky Mountain Wildflowers ($3.95) 
*15. A Field Guide to the Stars and Planets ($6.95) 
*16. 
A Field Guide to Western Reptiles and Amphibians 
($5.95) 
*17. A Field Guide to Wildflowers ($3.95) (Northeastern 
and North Central North America) 
18. A Field Guide to the Mammals of Britain and Europe 
19. A Field Guide to the Insects (America North of Mexico) 
* indicates those books carried by WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
these are obtainable from: 
Houghton Mifflin Company 
2 Park Street 
Boston, Massachusetts 02107 
-~jd 
We remember that Nietzsche said: 
‘‘In the architectural structure, 
man’s pride, man’s triumph over gravitation, man’s will to power, 
assume a visible form.’’ But should we now go the extra step and 
imitate the successful corals? From them we could learn that 
defense against gravity is not enough to give us power for survival. 
We might build into our urban architecture an added wealth of 
plant partners to clean the air and give us extra food. Perhaps rows 
of wheat plants and a potato vine should join the geranium flowering 
on the window sill, as a first step in the right direction. 
Flea powders containing poison deadly to adult fleas were puffed 
into the dirty clothing and dirty homes where the parasites were 
numerous. 
But poison proved to be just a new kind of dirt. 
It 
killed only 99 percent of the fleas; or slightly more. A few of 
the parasites were resistant, and so were their offspring. 
In just 
a few years the fleas became as numerous as ever and virtually 
immune to the poison in concentrations that previously had 
seemed effective. So long as the creature survives, it still has a 
chance to evolve a little more and make a comeback everywhere. 
Not so very long ago the eminent British biologist Joseph Bancroft 
of Cambridge University set down his thoughts on what he called 
Features in the Architecture of Physiological Function. He was 
impressed by the number of ways in which living things have 
escaped “‘from the tyranny” of the chemical rule shown by the 
equation of Arrhenius. He saw how far-reaching was the change 
when, instead of just slowing down as the weather chilled, the 
ancestors of mammals and birds began to shiver inside their coats 
of fur and feathers. Here was “the cold-blooded animal 
successfully adopting ingenious mechanisms, first biochemical, 
then physiological, in order to adapt its heart to the variations 
of its environment; the warm-blooded animal discarding what its 
cold-blooded predecessor has laboriously beaten out, invoking 
the nervous system to reverse the normal biochemical relationship 
and gaining a new freedom by adapting, not itself to the internal 
environment, but the internal environment to itself.” 
DEAR FLASH 
Well, man, it’s far out. In the last ten days me and Estelle split 
up, I’ve gone crazy and an uncle of mine here in Kentucky has died. 
| tended to him the best | could but he died, and we buried him on 
the hillside last Saturday afternoon. 
| helped dig his grave. 
And now I'm living here in his house, an old house my grand- 
father built about 1920, a house my father grew up in, and tnat | 
lived in a while myself when | was a boy. 
It’s an amazing scene. 
This hill, and all the hills around here, were strip-mined a couple of 
years ago. | mean, man, they’ve been destroyed. Bulldozers pushed 
the tops of the mountains into the valleys so they could scoop the 
coal._up with machines. About eighty per cent of my grandfather's 
farm here is under mud now, and out behind the house there's this 
incredible big mound of mud, this big wall of it, about fifteen feet 
high, waiting on a rain to loosen it enough to flow right on through 
this very kitchen. 
| wish you could see it. 
In fact, consider coming to see it. I’m going to stay on here a 
while and look after things and get myself together a little. The 
Lord has sent me to a cool place at last. | haven't ridden in a car in 
almost a week now. The theme here is staying put. Being still. No 
freeways, please. No wheels, except maybe one at a time, ona 
wheelbarrow. About all ! want to do at this point is rest and be 
real quiet, and what I’m finding is that the best way to do both 
those things is to work hard. 
I’ve been working full days'since my 
_uncle’s funeral. 
If you feel like resting and being quiet, come on 
down here and work with me a while. You can shovel rabbit shit 
while | water the garden. 
If you can’t swing that, do two other things for me. Send me 
some money, and find out where Estelle is. | don’t need a lot, and 
| don’t need it all at once, and whatever you send, from now on, | 
intend to pay you back. 
(I mean, like, how many freaks mooching 
off you intend to pay you back, Flash? This may be the start of 
some whole new trend). 
If you could send me two hundred dollars 
now, and a hundred dollars a month till further notice, I’d be cool. 
| can live on a hundred a month here easy. Food for the rabbits 
and myself is the only really big expense. (My inheritance includes 
forty seven rabbits, all hopping around and eating and shitting in 
hutches out behind the barn. They're part of my uncle's scheme to 
save the world with rabbit shit, which | will describe for you in full 
detail in another letter. 
It’s very far out). If | stay the rest of the 
summer, I'll owe you four hundred dollars by fall. But even if I 
wind up staying a whole year I’d only owe you about fourteen 
hundred next summer. 
I'll figure out something else by then. What 
| need to do now is get some money coming in so | wont have tao 
sweat it for a while, so please let me know pretty soon if you'll be 
able to carry me for a while. 
Estelle. 
| don’t know what to say, where to begin. We got really 
fucked up in Cincinnati. Or at least | did. It was heavy, | was 
heavy, and it got heavier and heavier till | really couldn’t carry it 
anymore. 
It’s much better now. 
I’m much better. At least | think 
lam. | feel like | 
am. And what | want to do is get hold of her 
and tell her that. And a whole bunch of other stuff too. So please 
try to scout her out for me Flash, get an address or a phone number 
and send it to me as soon as you can. Maybe Angel's heard from 
her. I'm sure she didn’t go back to her parents place in Grayling, 
although maybe she did at that. I’m sending a letter to her, in care 
of you. As soon as you get an address please forward it to her 
immediately, and then let me know. 
Well, old hoss, many thanks to you. I’m not rapping with any- 
body here much, except a little with this one guy, Leonard, who 
was a friend of my uncle’s and who comes up to help me now and 
then. So I'll be laying some letters on you for a while, probably. 
And if you feel like it, lay some on me in return. 
Peace. 
D.R. 
Nature 
Learning 
( 
