down to the family, and the family seemed to be a lot 
meditation and chauvinism mounted. We decided to 
4 
~ psychics, and even some political economists agreed 
‘All through the riots of ‘72 we watched, itching to leave 
studying astrology and making predictions in an off- 
a 
- pot seeds, and we were desperately raking bread, working, 
our bus and split for Oregon. We drove all night and 
the car radio that Red China had started bombing some- 
___half-hewn cabin, two chemical toilets, several dogs, 
smiling. 
__ We ate the ones over thirty first. 
.. What's wrong with this story? 
—- Defunct 
the city but somehow still attached. 
| mean, we knew. 
We knew as early as ‘67, but it was so science-fictiony 
that we just kind of dreamed happily over it, making 
‘incredibly detailed lists, playing with the Ouija Board, 
handedly superior way. We got disillusioned in ‘68, 
and went on a lot of sidetrips, falling in love, losing it, 
~moving, practicing all kinds of odd crafts, having babies. 
We knew what was happening by ‘69. We had our Whole 
Earth catalogs, and our stash of Acapulco ‘and Panamanian 
trying to get it together. 
It was a communal trip at first, and gradually it got thinner, 
smaller than we'd thought. Government pamphlets, 
_ nightsoil, organic gardening, Diesel engines, music, 
leave in secret. 
All the mediums, most of the astrologers, some of the 
that we were eating the earth into Armageddon. So 
we still waited, planning, collecting. 
In ‘73 we got into 
the better part of the day, slept just in time to hear on 
_ body, but not us yet, thank God. We woke and drove 
again, through the night, and finally we got there, and 
Pe, aut, exhausted. 
In the morning the baby started to 
Ne 
got up. Outside the curtained windows of our bus, 
through the trees and the virgin country, we saw’ seven 
tepees, three Volkswagen busses, two school busses, 
“one Renault Dauphine with a pup tent on top of it, a 
more cats, a fire somewhere off in the distance, and 
- standing around us were ninety-seven people. They 
looked hungry. They all had long hair. Nobody was 
Later, the soldiers came. 
from Tuesday’s Child—Vol. 1, No. 1 
It is as impossible to appeal to a neutral principle to determine the 
rationality of competing systems, as it is to invoke a neutral vocab- 
__ulary to characterize a language. 
" i logic that one rejects the logic of another. Arnold Nash illustrated 
It is in the name of one kind of 
_ this “irrational prejudice” of reason very well in the story of a 
- doctoral examination. The candidate, who submitted a study on 
_ Mormon history, was asked whether he, being a Mormon, 
regarded himself sufficiently unprejudiced to write a thesis 
On Mormon history. The’student replied, ‘Yes, if you, nota 
© 
~ Mormon, consider yourself unprejudiced enough to examine it.”” 
\ 
- An important difference exists between ‘‘having-no’’ knowledge and 
having ‘‘no-knowledge."’ The former is merely a state of ignorance; 
the latter is one of ultimate enlightenment and universal sensibilities. 
To the confirmed rationalist, no-knowledge may appear to be the 
_hugger-muggery of the mystagogue. Nevertheless, it is precisely 
__ its ineffability that lends force to its reality. The mysteries of 
7 nature appear to be mysteries only to those who refuse to participate 
-inthem. .../ 
4 
‘With rational knowledge, the scientist is a spectator of nature. With 
. no-knowledge, he becomes a participant in nature. There is acom- 
_ munion of understandings. He no longer shares that tragic suffering 
_ of many individuals, who ‘‘fear 
of finding oneself alone,” as André 
Gide describes it, yer so they don’t find themselves at all.’ 
The Emerging Japanese Superstate 
After some uncomfortable years with the old cliché —— 
California Is The Future——/ welcome the new cliché—— 
Japan Is The Future. After a visit there last year, | do 
believe that all futurists should do some time in industrial 
Japan. Not just awesome statistics, as 
Kahn cogently points 
out, but a whole national psyche is cooking there. A sense 
of Manifest Destiny that dwarfs Israel’s. Generational 
conflict like and oddly unlike our own. 
Ecological practice 
far worse and far better than anyone else’s. The damnaest. 
loyalties. Insatiable resource hunger. Desire for nuclear 
weapons. Planetary impact, and maybe leadership. 
It'll be nice to have California merely quaint again. 
The Emerging Japanese Superstate 
Herman Kahn 
1970; 274 pp. 
THE 
EMERGING 
JAPANESE 
SUPERSTATE 
$2.45 paper edition 
from: 
Prentice-Hall, Inc. 
Englewood Cliffs, N.J. 07632 
CHALLENGE 
AND 
RESPONSE 
HERMAN KAHN 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
MATSUSHITA WORKERS’ SONG 
For the building of a new Japan, 
Let’s put our strength and mind together, 
Doing our best to promote production, 
Sending our goods to the people of the world, 
Endlessly and continuously, 
Like water gushing from a fountain. 
Grow, industry, grow, grow, grow! 
Harmony and sincerity! 
. 
“er 
Matsushita Electric! 
The Tao of Science 
No high-minded bridging of East and West, this. Buta 
successful director of research showing how valuable an 
informed and experienced Taoist sense of harmony can 
be to the conduct of science. 
It can help balance the 
scientist, and it offers an avenue to balancing the appli- 
cation of what the scientist learns. Good medicine for 
over-specialization. 
—SB 
The Tao of Science 
R&Gonesige 
1957; 180 pp. 
$2.45 postpaid 
from: 
The M.-1. T. Press 
50 Ames Street, Room 765 
Cambridge, Mass. 02142 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
. This all-embracing applicability of no-knowledge makes it a 
valuable tool for the executive. 
It provides him with 
a common 
ground of all situations. 
It is his means of transcendence over 
specific experience of which he has not yet tasted. Versed in 
no- knowledge, he is at home under otherwise strange conditions; 
he always finds familiar strains in his management of assorted 
enterprises. 
The scientific West adopts the positive method and the Taoist East 
the negative. In the positive method the item under question is 
intentionally pointed out and described. 
In the negative method, it 
is specifically not discussed. 
By not dissecting the ineffable x 
in question but merely restricting discourse to objects that it-is 
not, the features of the x are revealed in our dim consciousness. 
Communal. 
\n nearly all activities and issues the Japanese 
traditionally think of themselves as members of a group, and their 
satisfactions are largely expected to come through group fulfillment 
of group objectives. 
In traditional Japanese culture, and to an 
amazing degree today (despite a nominal emphasis on democratic 
individuality and other erosions of traditional patterns and ties), one 
of the worst of all sins is to display an egoistic disregard of, disinter- 
est in, or resistance to group mores, attitudes, taboos, totems, 
traditions, or objectives——or often just to display any individualism 
at all. 
Traditionally every Japanese is part of a hierarchical structure. 
There are people who rank above every individual, except the 
Emperor and the shogun, and except for the youngest daughter of 
a member of the outcast Burakus, there are people beneath. To say 
in Japan that certain people are equal generally implies they are in 
equal distance from some common superior——i.e., they are equal in 
the way two privates or two generals are equal. Both have common 
rank in a pyramidal hierarchical structure. 
e 
't should also be noted that in probably no place in the world but 
Japan are such songs sung voluntarily and for fun. Certainly not in 
China, where there is a grim compulsion about singing them and 
where pleasure and voiuntarism are the last two words one would use 
to describe the situation. 
It was interesting to me that at one time 
in Vietnam, when the Viet Cong took over a village they often, made 
the people sing such songs for an hour or two. And when the Saigon 
government took over a village they too made the villagers sing 
songs for a half hour or so. However, when the villagers were 
queried, ‘‘What do you want?” the answer was almost invariably, 
among other things, ‘‘We want to quit singing.”” 
The point I wish to make is the contrast between the high morale 
of present-day Japanese culture——in at least this matter of pro- 
duction——and the very low morale in the West on almost all issues. 
GNP, Billion 1967 
U.S. Dollars 
1,000 
900 
800 
700 
600 
500 
400 
300 
200 
100 
90 
80 
70 
60 
50 
Mainland China 
40 
30 
1950. 
52 
62 
Note: Purchasing power exchange rates are used. 
54 
56 
58 
60 
64 
66 
68 
70 
THE LONE OUTDOORSMAN 
About eight o’clock a man in a red hunting cap came out 
of the camper parked next to Urge and began dismounting the 
yellow trailbike from the front end of his GMC. He was short and 
overweight but you could tell by the way he wore his cap and held 
his pipe between his teeth that he took himself pretty seriously. 
His face was absurdly handsome. 
His face could have been in a 
TV ad for pipe tobacco, or a men’s cologne. Probably in some 
previous incarnation the Lone Outdoorsman had been the best 
five foot, five inch high school halfback in the conference. 
He had on a black and green wool shirt, army boots and fatigue 
pants faded to a pale green. Dangling from the army web belt 
‘around his waist were a canteen, a compass, a long sheath-knife, 
a first aid kit, survival kit, snake bite kit, sewing kit, and a kit 
to repair flat tires with. He banged and rattled like a mobile hard- 
ware store, and yet he smoked his pipe and worked on his bike 
like any neighborhood family man out waxing his car on a Sunday 
afternoon. 
From time to time the Outdoorsman would Biante over his 
shoulder and peek at Divine Right and Estelle through the over- 
hanging trees. They were sitting on the ground in front of the 
fireplace, eating hot apples and talking quietly. He didn’t mean to 
pry. He was just, you know, checking things out, looking to see 
if there was any crime going on over there among the hippies. 
He noticed they were both eating out of the same dish, out of a 
stewpot, as a matter of fact. That was irregular, to be sure, but 
not quite an infraction, nothing to call the Lone Outdoorsman into 
action yet. He glanced at the two young people every few minutes 
until he got the bike dismounted. Then he got on, started ‘er up, 
and rode off to the bathroom a hundred yards away. 
Eastern Future 
Whole Systems 
