Alaska Wilderness 
~ bob marshall’s wanderings 
in the brooks range, with a 
good introduction that 
lays down the dangers of 
_ ramming a pipeline through 
‘the wilderness without 
_ knowing much about pipelines 
or wildernesses. ecology 
at the practical /evel. 
—jd 
Our routine in camp was the result of many a night out in the 
deep snow. We would start with nothing but two 
bundled sleds, a wilderness in which a shelter had never yet been 
erected, and more (Ernie) or less (1) personal competence to 
combine the two into something safe and comfortable. Our 
procedure generally began by Ernie tramping down with his 
snowshoes a space big enough to pitch the 9 by 9 tent, with a 
little extra room to prevent our sinking clear to qur 
- 
waists the moment we stepped outside our tent. Then we usually 
hitched the tent to trees by ropes at either end of the ridge, 
and stretched out the wall ropes to trees, shrubs, or specially 
cut poles, whichever happened to be most handy. Meanwhile 
| would hack down a green spruce for blocks on which to set the 
stove, saving the boughs to spread on top of the snow inside the 
tent. Ernie would cut more boughs, and soon we would forget 
we were roosting on snow, unless we happened to look under the 
stove. 
Before we started out in the morning, Ernie always filled the stove 
with shavings, kindling, and dry sticks of wood, so that once it 
was set up and the stovepipe attached at night, we would have a 
roaring fire in a few moments. Getting a fire started quickly was 
most important in really cold weather. Even in-relatively mild 
weather the sooner the fire got going the better, because all cooking 
had to wait until we had melted enough snow to get the water we 
required. For melting the snow we used five-gallon gasoline cans, 
with one side cut out. Each night we used three of them, haif 
full of water, two for cooking dog feed and one for ourselves. 
But with melting the snow our nightly task was far from finished. 
Wood had to be cut. The dogs had to be unhitched and tied to 
trees. Spruce-bough bedding had to be prepared for them. Then we 
had to take in our own bedding and spread it out on our boughs. We 
had to scrape the snow from our socks, overalls, and moccasins, 
and hang them up to dry. When a little of the snow was melted we 
started the tea water, and after that the rest of the supper. While 
we were eating and afterward, the dog feed would be cooking. 
After supper there would be dishwashing, sewing, repairing 
snowshoes, and—most tedious of all—crawling, head first, into a 
sleeping bag to change films in total darkness. When the dog feed 
was done we would take it outside, pour it into separate pans for 
each dog, and let it cool. Just before going to bed we would serve 
it. 
” Robert Marghall 
This may sound like a lot of work, and actually we were kept busy 
until ten or eleven o'clock. Nevertheless these evenings were 
1965, 70; 208 pp. 
very pleasant. Ernie was a simple but excellent cook, and the 
_ 
f 
meals he prepared added real joy to our life after a day of mushing. 
4 
4 
The piece de resistance of our suppers was always a pot of boiled 
$2 95 Rosen 
meat. Ernie believed it essential for healthy camp life to avoid 
from: 
too much frying, and above all to avoid burned grease. The meat 
‘University of California Press 
was tender sheep, which Ernie had shot late in the fall. With 
2223 Fulton Street 
the natural cold-storage facilities of the Arctic there was no 
| Berkeley, California 94720 
trouble in keeping meat all winter. 
We varied our suppers by 
i) 
“ 
boiling lima beans, peas, dried vegetables, rice or macaroni 
‘ 
| 
50 E. 42nd St. 
with the meat. One potful lasted us for two nights. On the second 
Room 513 
night it was only necessary to thaw out and heat what was left 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
from the first. The same was true of fruit. We always had a pot 
~ of dried apples and cranberries cooked and ready for immediate 
use. The only fresh cooking necessary for supper on the second 
night was tea, biscuits, and sometimes rice or macaroni. 
Alaska Wilderness 
Robert Marshall 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Handbook for the Alaskan Prospector 
longstanding fantasy: 
learn a little about rocks, 
walk, fly, 
out there somewhere. 
Handbook for the Alaskan Prospector 
Ernest Wolff 
set up a placer claim, 
1969; 460 pp. 
| live happily ever after. 
6.00 
ecu 
then this book let me 
$ 
posted! 
know that i had to know 
from: 
/ more than a little 
The Mineral Industry Research Laboratory 
; 
University of Alaska 
_ about rocks. 
College Alaska 99701 
oe 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
| Hunters of the Northern Ice _ 
For anyone wanting to stay alive around ocean ice this 
~ 
| book is necessary: otherwise it is merely fascinating. Nelson 
| was an eskimo for the U.S. Air Force. He spent four years 
engaged in the seal hunters’ life accumulating polar survival 
lore and respect for Eskimo endurance and ingenuity. 
| His report is as dense and pungent and.nourishing as good 
| pemmican. Every sentence tells you something about ice 
formation, ice movement, finding open water, weather fore- 
casting, cold injury, ice camps, bird behavior, game habits, 
| hunting tecniniques. 
. 
. survival in. terrain without margin. 
—SB. 
: Hunters of the Northern Ice 
Richard K. Nelson 
1969; 429pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
. 
from: 
University of Chicago Press 
5801 Ellis Avenue 
Chicago, III. 60637 
Unlike the westerners with whom he has contact in modern times, 
the Eskimo seldom doubts what he has been told by others, 
especially if they are his elders. Thus, without previous actual 
| experience in a given situation he will unquestioningly respond 
lhe 
dih EA Te a IN Oe NN aac a 
aaa decay 
; 
Cache Lake Country 
an illustrated seasonal diary of lake country tricks and 
tips, written by a mellow, contented, man, who loves the 
woods, knows his subject, and writes pretty well too. kane‘s 
W. W. Norton & Company, Inc. 
illustrations are the nicest i’ve seen. the book makes me 
WATER-COOLED 
sft 
REFRIGERATOR 
want to learn how to swim. 
Cache Lake Country 
John J. Rowlands, Henry B. Kane 
1947, 59; 270pp. 
$7.95 postpaid 
from : 
500 5th Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Cloth cover, tied at 
bottom to keep 
out Flies 
HACKSAW 
BREAD 
KNIFE 
Up on higher ground where the soil is mixed 
with sand and well drained, | plant my potatoes 
early in June, for | depend on the late crop to 
put away for the winter. We grow very fine 
potatoes here in the woods and they. have a 
flavor all their own, especially when baked in 
the ashes of a campfire. There is quite a trick 
to cut seed potatoes, for you get a better yield 
if you cut them so that you get the eyes on the 
flower end and in the middle instead of the stem 
end where the potato was attached to the plant. 
When the time comes to harvest the crop we 
have to watch for sudden cold rains which make 
the potatoes soggy. Another thing is that if 
potatoes lie in the sunlight for any length of 
time after digging they turn green and are not 
JOHN |. ROWLANDS 
tuviaed ty ELECTR Es. AME 
Another sign that may mean stormy weather 
is that earthy, rainy smel] you sometimes 
notice before a storm, especially near a muddy 
~ 
pond or marshy place. Some of this odor, which 
at times is very unpleasant, is caused by marsh 
gas escaping from the mud at the bottom of the 
pond, where it is formed by rotting vegetation. 
This gas is most likely to bubble up from the 
bottom when the atmospheric pressure is low 
as it usually is before a storm. When the 
pressure is high and the weather clear most of 
the gas is held at the bottom. When | was a boy 
| would row out on a pond and drive a pole intc 
the bottom and touch a match to the gas when 
it came to the top in the form of bubbles. 
Makes quite a flare for a second or so. 
In 
addition to gas, low atmospheric pressure has a 
tendency to keep odors close to the ground, 
which accounts for all kinds of strong woods 
scents, including the musky smell of animals 
much good. For keeping through the winter, 
just before a spell of bad weather. 
potatoes should be stored in a dark dry place 
where the air circulates freely, but they must 
always be protected against freezing. 
SETTLING 
POND 
PLAN 
——| 
SLUICE 
CIRCULATING 
PUMP. 
SETTLING 
BARRELS 
’ 
3° PUMPS 
CAISSONS 
SECTION 
Arrangement of Caissons, Pumps, Sluice, and other Equipment. 
Coats 
D.R. was too far away to understand all they said, but those 
three words ran through their conversation like a refrain, ‘‘Death,”” 
said Mrs. Godsey, and David smiled and said, “Yes mam, and God 
and heaven too.” Mrs. Godsey’s face was lined with age, but her 
voice and gestures were as vigorous as David's. She had long, white 
hair, gathered behind her in a bun. Dressed in a long, white robe, 
she looked like some Old Testament prophet just stepped out of 
the Bible she carried in her hand. ‘’God and heaven,” she said. 
David said, “Yes mam, and death too.” David seemed to be en- 
joying himself immensely. 
He leaned against the wall, his hand 
spread out on a sign advertising Bruton’s Snuff. ‘Death and 
heaven,” he said, and Mrs. Godsey nodded and said, *’ That's 
right, honey. And God too. We mustn't never leave out God.” 
Once when Mrs. Godsey glanced toward Urge, D.R. got so scared 
he lay down across the front seats and hid till David came back 
to the bus ten or fifteen minutes later. 
“Come on,” said David. “We have to walk the rest of the way.”’. 
D.R. asked how come. 
: 
“You can’t get a tar up Trace Fork any more. We have to 
walk.” 
D.R. said he wasn’t going. 
“Sure you are,” said David. “Come on, it’s only a mile to the 
homeplace.”” 
D.R. said he refused to leave the bus till he had some kind of 
protection. 
David looked at him and asked him what he was 
talking about. 
| 
to itin the way 
that he has been told. The outsider, on the 
other hand, continually frustrates the Eskimos by doubting these 
instructions and attempting to formulate original solutions which 
he believes to be better. Those who live with Eskimos over a long 
enough period find themselves questioning less and less, and 
following whatever they are told to do by their more experienced 
native companions. 
e 
Returning to the ice apron after retrieving a seal with an wmzahaluyak. 
The man at the left spreads his legs wide to prevent his breaking 
through the thin ice. He will use the hook of his unaak to draw the 
| boat up onto the ice. 
» 
There is one other attitude of the Eskimo which seems to be adapted 
to his economic life. This is his ability to find genuine humor 
in misfortunes that befall him, or in his own errors. It is sometimes 
explicitly stated that a hunter should laugh when things go wrong, 
because anger never helps him, while laughter makes him better 
able to overcome setbacks. In an environment where so much can 
go wrong, and it is so easy to lose something that has nearly 
been gained, such an attitude is almost a necessity. If a hunter 
has shot a bearded seal, and when the harpoon is tossed it glances 
off just as the animal sinks, this is an occasion for laughter, not for _ 
disgust. The old hunter, Kavik, never tired of telling stories of his 
exploits, and he would sometimes laugh 
until tears glistened in his 
eyes when he told of his greatest and most frustrating mistakes. 
* 
“You and Mrs. Godsey were up there talking about me,”” 
D.R. said. 
: 
David laughed. He'd been standing outside the bus, but now 
he got in and established himself in the drivér’s seat. ‘That's 
a very weird thing to say, D.R.” 
“| don't care if it is,” said D.R, “It’s true.” 
“You don’t know that,” said David. “And even if it is, what 
difference does it make?” 
(continued) 
North 
Nomadics 
