Winemaking 
At some time in everyone’s life he’s collected together raisins, 
sugar and baker’s yeast in a gallon wine jug and eagerly awaited 
the product. More often than not this resulted in an overly 
sweet, low power, cloudy “amber brew” that discouraged him 
from further efforts at wine making. Amateur wine making 
though long practiced is only slowly evolving from the “word 
of mouth” phase. 
These two British books are the best that 
I’ve seen; however, one does not learn wine making by reading 
books——he learns good habits and a feel for the techniques 
of wine making. From there on it is a matter of how much 
imagination one has, since amateur wine makers have made 
many delightful wines out of the most unlikely ingredients 
(Flowers, potatoes, parsnips, rose hips, rhubarb, etc.). Bravery’s 
book (Successful Winemaking at Home) /s scientific and 
meticulous with details. 
He says all wine recipes in his book 
have been tested personally and are of excellent quality if 
you follow his general rules for making good wine——and | 
believe him. However, they are for single (Imperial) gallons 
(5 quarts) which | feel hardly makes it worth the trouble 
unless it is a very special recipe. Five gallon spring water 
bottles are more convenient sizes for tested recipes and 
thirsty friends. 
Berry’s book (First Steps in Winemaking) /s worth while 
because he has many photos and diagrams of apparatus 
which | feel is essential to one’s initial concept of the process. 
He has a lot of “hints” and so forth, many of which are 
sound, but if there’s a discrepancy | would stick to Bravery’s 
interpretation. 
Both books and many others not mentioned 
have recipes which should get you started. Wines can be 
made all year if you are willing to experiment. 
A few things to remember: Read the principles of wine 
making carefully; wine and yeast are gentle things and they 
have to be cared for. Wine yeast is very important and well 
worth purchasing from dealers. 
(If you have an idea of 
sterile transfer techniques and the knowledge that it only 
takes one little yeast cell you can devise ways of making 
‘one commercial culture of yeast grow two years worth of 
wine.) Equipment can be expensive at specialty stores but 
wine is easily made in 10-20 gallon polyethylene garbage 
cans, “clipped” five gallon water bottles (at 1.50 per) at 
spring water dealers, fermentation locks of the plastic 
variety, a J shaped siphon to avoid “racking the lees. 
Tempeature is very critical and | recommend a thermo- 
statically controlled heater or room or perhaps an immers- 
ible fishtank heater. 
Tap water has yeast killing chlorine 
init: 
to remove it boiling is probably the easiest, tho if 
you're doing 20 gallons it can become tedious——chlorine 
will escape if left to the air for a day or so. Add Sodium 
Bisulfite (Sodium metabisulfite & Campden to the 
. British); it is an inhibitor to all wild yeasts and many bac- 
teria, but wine yeasts are resistant to it, so you encourage 
your special yeast’s growth and avoid spoilers. 
It also 
allows you to avoid heating to sterilize the whole batch. 
A stronger solution can be used very nicely for sterilizing 
clean bottles, etc., without affecting the taste of the wine. 
Lastly one should call the Feds and register (it’s free) and 
avoid a possible hassle. 
[Reviewed by Dr. James Fox. 
Suggested by Tom Wellman] 
Dr. James Fox says that you can use sodium bisulfite as a sterilant 
in wine recipes. 
This is not true. . .bacteria and fungus find NaHSO3 
such good food that it’s hard to keep a solution on the shelf. Sodium 
metabisulfite has no other common name, and ts Na9S 905, andt 
recently bought a pound of Baker Reagent Grade “Sodium meta- 
Bisulfite” 
for $1.50, this being enough to treat 1750 gallons of wine. 
He also states that Bravery’s recipes are for 5 quart gallons. . 
Bravery says, “The reason for using 5 quts of water in these recipes 
is that we are using enough ingredients for a gallon of wine. If we used 
only one gallon of water we would end up with about three quarts of 
wine because about a quart will be lost during boiling and other 
‘ 
operations.” (p. 55, Successful Winemaking. . .) 
This last isn’t very important, but the metabisulfite bothers me, 
because only a chemist could catch the error, and most of your 
readers are likely to be mislead, with possibly unpleasant results. 
Sincerely, 
Frank Deis 
Richmond, VA. 
Berarducci Brothers 
You may have reported on the products shown in the Berarduccit 
Brothers Manufacturing Company catalog (McKeesport, Pa., 15132). 
If not, it might interest your readers to have a source of crocks, 
Barrels, Fruit crushers and wine presses, Pizelle irons, various graters, 
sausage stuffers, coffee roasters, ravioli machines and noodle machines. 
Berarducci winery equipment is also shown in most other winemaking 
supply catalogs, but is less expensive from this source. 
Ralph Auf der Heide 
Santa Barbara, CA 
Wine & Beer Making 
Community 
202 
Many old recipes advocate far too much sugar, with the result 
that the winemaker is disappointed when the yeast fails to use 
most of it up, and he is left with a syrupy, almost undrinkable 
concoction. 
As a good rule of thumb, remember the figure 3——3 Ibs. to the 
gallon of liquor for a medium wine. Half a pound less will usually 
produce a dry wine, half a pound more a sweet. 
Below 2 Ibs. of 
sugar to the gallon the wine may not be strong enough to keep, 
above 3% it may well (although not always) be sickly sweet. 
FOR CLEARING: 
Jellybag or asbestos pulp 
Boilers, saucepan or large 
aluminium fish-kettle 
FOR STORAGE: 
Casks, ¢ gal. jars; Winchesters, 
+ gal. jars, bottles 
| 
edu ment 
Teel a 
home. 
winemaking 
-e@ 
i] 
TLL 
AU\(ttattinaceneseve 
Corking toot 
Cork borer 
logger 
Bed 
Corks and stoppers 
Sa 
Uy 
FOR STRAINING: Muslin, or nylon sieve 
First Steps in Winemaking 
C. J. J. Berry 
from: 
1960; 160 pp. 
Semplex of USA 
Box 12276 
$1.95 postpaid 
Minneapolis, Minn. 55412 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
PETIT 
rit 
iii) 
Rose Hip Wine 
One of the finest of all home-made wines; its flavour is unique and 
it has body and bouquet that take a lot of matching. 
Rose hips 
abound in early autumn and it matters not whether they are 
gathered from your own rose trees or from the hedgerows. They 
should not be used _ 
until they have taken on their winter coat of 
red or orange according to the type. 
4 lb. rose hips, 3 lb. sugar, 1 gal. water, 1 oz. yeast. 
Wash the hips well in half a gallon of water in which one Campden 
tablet has been dissolved. Crush the hips with a maliet or chop 
them. Put them in the fermenting vessel and pour on half a gallon 
of boiling water. 
Boil half the sugar in a quart of water for two 
minutes‘and when cooled a little add to the rest. Add the yeast 
and ferment the pulp for seven days. 
Then strain out the solids and put the strained liquor into a gallon 
jar. Boil the rest of the sugar in the remaining water for two min- 
utes and allow to-cool well before adding to the rest. Cover as 
directed or fit fermentation lock and leave to ferment in a warm 
place until all fermentation has ceased. 
Successful Wine Making at Home 
H.E. Bravery 
_ 
1961; 151 pp. 
$.95 postpaid 
from: 
Arc Books 
219 Park Avenue South 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
SEPT III 
NOTE: Unlawful to build in many countries. 
May require licensing in others. 
1/4" OR 3/8" COPPER TUBE 
THERMOMETER 
LOOSELY COILED 
TUBING IN METAL 
WATER JACKET 
HEAT SOURCE 
" COOL 
WATER 
INPUT AT BOTTOM 
Lore of Still Building 
$2.98 
CONDENSER 
RECEIVER 
from: 
: 
Popular Topics Press 
517 W. Jackson 
Fostoria, OH 44830 
HOME POT STILL 
Home Brewing Without Failures 
It’s an interesting book, but awfully hard to use in this 
country, because it’s very difficult to get decent materials 
for brewing. 
It is, after all, against the law to make your 
own beer (at least in California). 
Wine is legal; up to 200 
gallons a year may be made by the head of a family (a real 
Italian law). In Berkeley, for instance, you can buy Blue 
Ribbon canned malt extract at most large grocery stores, 
also probably corn sugar (dextrose) in most. You can 
buy a bottle capper and bottle caps, and a decent yeast 
starter ata winery. But Bravery’s recipes call for a number 
of pretty esoteric ingredients. 
There are two places to buy brewing supplies through the 
mail that offer a really good selection. One is*Wine-Art 
Sales Ltd., 1108 Lonsdale, North Vancouver, B.C. 
This 
is the nicest mail order house I’ve ever dealt with.. They 
have a free catalog of beer and wine making supplies. 
When you order from them, you send no money. 
They 
send you the stuff, and a bill, with a discount for American 
money, and you send them the remittance. 
| hope no one 
burns them, because it’s really nice to establish such a 
basis of trust in the cold. mail order world. Shipping 
charges are not expensive, except on heavy stuff, and the 
wait is only about two weeks (to Calif.). 
! would suggest that anyone who wants to get into beer 
making should use Bravery’s book as a point of depar- 
ture, maybe order some of those nice yeasts, particularly 
the liquid ones, and other small stuff from Canada.or 
England, but make do with Canned malt extract, locally 
available sugars (yellow-D is a good one, though beer 
made with it is sometimes a little hard to start), maybe 
some molasses for extra body. | 
You should know that Bravery’s recipes generally make 
very, very heavy beer. 
The heavier the better for me, but 
it’s 
along way from Lucky Lager, or even Heinekens and 
Tuborg. 
/f you like light beer, use less sugar (use corn 
sugar, too), less malt, and more water. 
/f you use a 
hydrometer, as Bravery recommends, you can figure out 
the alcohol content of your beer before you start it with 
the yeast. 
Contrary to what a /ot of people believe, 
a home brewer 
of at least thirty years experience told me to never save 
a yeast starter from batch to batch, but to start with a 
new and good one every time. 
Yeast gets contaminated 
with wild spores very easily, and your batches are likely 
to get worse and worse instead of better and better. Also, 
he says, you should ferment your beer at low tempera- 
tures, 60 degrees or lower, as at higher temperatures, the 
yeast starts producing alcohols you don’t want, like 
toluene and acetone. 
ae 
igs 
/n general, the best way to brew is to experiment, and 
keep notes, so you can duplicate a really good batch 
when it comes along. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
* Roland Jacopetti] 
Home Brewing Without Failures 
H. E. Bravery 
1965; 159 pp. 
from: 
Arc Books 
— 
$.95 postpaid 
219 Park Avenue South 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Bring seven quarts water to 150°F. 
Pour into polythene pail and add 
the malts at once. Putin immer- 
| 
-sion heater, cover vessel with sheet 
polythene.as directed and wrap 
vessel in blanket to conserve warmth. 
Switch on heater and maintain 
mash at 145°- 150°F. for eight 
hours. At this stage you may 
carry out starch test if you 
want to. Strain mash into boiler 
Bravery’s Super Stout 
2 |b crystal malt 
2 |b patent black malt 
1 |b black treacle: 
3 Ib white sugar 
3 oz hops 
2 small level teaspoonfuls salt 
% oz citric acid 
yeast 
nutrient 
"and add salt and two ounces hops. Bring to boil and simmer gently 
for forty minutes. Add remaining hops and simmer hard or boil for 
a further five minutes. 
Put sugar, treacle and citric acid into the fermenting vessel and strain 
the mash on to it through fine muslin. Stir well, making sure all 
sugar is dissolved and make up to four gallons with boiling water. 
Cover with sheet polythene as already directed (p. 51) and leave to 
cool to 65° - 70°F. Add yeast and nutrient and leave to ferment 
for six-eight days. 
a 
7 
If using hydrometer, take readings after five days until 1.005 is 
recorded and then bottle. 
If hydrometer is not being used, allow 
fermentation to go on until beer becomes “‘flat’’ and then prime — 
add sugar to recommence fermentation — and then bottle. 
If 
draught beer of this sort is wanted merely bottle the beer when it 
has gone ‘‘flat’’. Improves with keeping for six or more weeks, ° 
though it may be used as soon as all yeast has settled and the beer 
is clear. 
: 
OAK BARRELS 
for fermenting. 
Adds an air of ‘the 
good old days” home brewing operation. 
PARAFFINE LINED BARRELS 
does not add wood 
taste as charred barrels do, but is easier to clean and 
doesn’t leak 
1920 
one gallon 
10.00 
1921 
two gallon 
11.00 
1922 _ five gallon 
12,90 
1923 
ten gallon 
16.90 
1924 
fifteen gallon 
18.30 
1925 
thirty gallon 
28.20 
1926 
fifty gallon 
41.50 
NO LONGER AVAILABLE 
‘The Wyne Table 
