7 
' Rags 
Never fear, Rags is nowhere near a newsprint version of 
Glamour, so don’t be put off by the fact that they talk. 
about fashion sometimes. All they‘re really doing is talking 
about wearing your insides on your outsides. All of us feel 
that fashion can be superficial, trivial and irrelevant and it 
is... if you take it too seriously. Rags has zeroed in on 
fashion as just plain ole daily living and they look to the 
street for people who dig fashion as self-expression and not 
_ what-to-wear-when-and-why-not. They know that nobody - 
should have to think twice about clothes or how they look 
except as a whimsical, trippy kind of safe-valve, Put-on 
what you feel and you can’t help but look beautiful. 
They print some good how-to articles, so you can pick up 
on all sorts of old and new recipes, beauty and otherwise, 
to make you feel better by doing it yourself and enjoying 
it all too. /f your insides are being energized and 
, revolutionized and beautified then those ole familiar 
outsides just have to be getting better too. 
[Reviewed by Barbara DeZonia) 
Rags 
Defunct 
Make It 
Make It 
Issued quarterly, first issue, Fall 1971. 
How to obtain, build, repair, recycle and renovate what you need. 
Dedicated to survival, economy and conservation. 
Prick- $3.00 
| Box 526, Old Chelsea Station 
New York, N.Y. 10011 
| As soon as possible, we would like to have requests for information 
and projects you want. 
- 
We will also pay for suggestions and for articles describing projects 
«you have completed. 
The idea behind the periodical we’re planning is pretty important, 
we think. Here’s how it got started. I’ve been repairing, restoring/ 
renovating and building things from scratch for about 25 years now, 
and was interested in it for a few years before that. I'll try to keep 
it short, but things repaired include small and large appliances like 
washers, refrigeration, small engines, cars of course, recording and 
film studio gear, radio, TV, radio and TV station gear (I have the 
FCC license), farm implements, steam engines and many more. 
I’ve 
built houses including all plumbing, wiring, finishing and cabinet 
making, made portland cement and bricks from clay and limestone, 
chemicals, jewelry, gemstones, tape recorders, recording studio 
consoles, radio studios, potters wheels, tools of all kinds, freezers 
and refrigerators, underwater photographic gear and lots more. I 
have considerable experience as a machinist, carpenter, mason, 
electrical and electronic engineer/technician, teacher, blacksmith 
and technical writer. My buddies have similar backgrounds. 
I tell you this, not because it’s some kind of a big deal— I’ve found 
that anyone with enough determination can do practically anything 
they want to if they take enough time— but rather to let you know 
where I stand and to support my belief that anyone who plans to 
publish or teach should know about the subjects they’re talking 
about. And it isn’t enough to have learned in an academic sense 
only— that may be enough for purely academic subjects, but 
practical subjects need to be supported by practical experience. A 
good way of learning a new subject is to tie it in with the related 
knowledge one already has learned/experienced— a craftsman can 
therefore learn in a very special kinetic way— by visualizing the 
subject as ajob that will be executed to yield a finished product. If 
you project yourself into ajob, you can predict what the order of 
the steps should be and what problems might come up. I’m not 
putting down books or even abstract or academic thinking, but 
when I pick up a book that claims to tell me how to do something, 
it should really work. It’s happened to me and to everyone I know— 
and it must have happened to you, too— 
that after finding that a 
project from a book won’t work and checking the work very 
carefully, you discover that the thing couldn’t possibly work no 
matter what, because the basic concept is wrong. 
Then it becomes 
clear that the dude that wrote the book didn’t try out the project, 
didn’t have enough practical work behind him to evaluate the 
project, and, worse yet, didn’t bother to tell the reader that the 
project was purely theory and therefore speculative. No good. 
You 
plan to end up with a working thing and instead you find yourself 
ina research project. 
: 
Our plan ts to describe projects that have been done so that the idea 
is tested and the usual problems involved in execution can be 
described in a step-by-step procedure. 
We'll work up some of the 
projects ourselves, and we'll print articles from readers (paid for, 
of course) provided they are tested. 
We’ll also run some abstract 
things or propose projects, but these will be clearly identified. 
The project articles will be as concise as possible, but complete 
enough that a newcomer to the subject can be sure that it will work 
if done carefully. We want to avoid the kind of abstract writing 
you find in survey type books where you plunk down 10 or 15 
bucks for a book and get a text for an Animal Husbandry 101 class 
that tells you what a sheep looks like. Some books are really empty,’ 
and sadly, they may be the only thing available on a given topic. 
Others are written to the wrong audience. 
We think that home- 
steaders need information that applies to their needs. 
An example: Instead of 
listing a catalog for coopers’s tools, we will 
run an article on how to make barrels. 
It’s important to tell where 
the tools can be had, as you have done so well, and it’s also important 
to now how. We will tell how an experienced cooper makes a barrel 
in the classical way, where to get the tools and how to use them. 
We will describe how to make the tools— pretty essential when you 
* 
look at the prices. Finally, we'll tell how to make barrels, using 
techniques that journeyman coopers don’t use, but that are’ effective 
for people who want to make a barrel right the first time rather 
than making a lot of scrap ones as the cooper does in his apprentice- 
ship. This will apply to all of our articles. 
Max Pepke 
Kindred 
Community 
CauT/on: RAILROAD RIDES MAY 
PuLpiry YOUR HEALTH. 
Twas on the stretch of track be- 
tween Starkey, Nevada and Utah that 
I began to learn the dangers of the 
rails. 
I had been riding in an empty coal 
car with a floor that consisted: of six 
large trap doors. Several dozen miles 
out of Starkey I picked up my pack 
and moved to another side of the car. 
A few seconds 
later there was 
an 
enormous clatter. The door Id just 
Sitting or lying down in my cozy 
coal car was impossible. The freights 
have no shock absorbers, a fact I'd 
never noticed on slower jaunts. When 
a train hits sixty. miles an hour, the 
fool who attempts to sit is rewarded 
ie 
Clean your boots regularly and 
waterproof them with Dri, Sno-Seal 
or a similar preparation. All reputa-: 
ble dealers offer resoling service. 
Here is a list of boots available at 
various dealers (prices run about $40 
a pair except for Fabiano, which is 
$10 less): 
Leroux—Excellent French boot for 
real mountaineering. 
Raichle—Made in Switzerland, sev- 
eral models from mountaineering to 
- 
trail walking. 
Pivetta—Italian’ boot sold in this 
country as La Dolomite. I own a pair — 
and am well satisfied. 
Lowa—Very good all round boot 
made in Germany. 
Galibier—French, very fine work- 
manship. 
Fabiano 
— Light weight 
trailboot 
made in Italy. Good for women. 
Kronhofer 
— Austrian 
boot 
with 
hand-crafted features. ggg 
with a smashed ass. 
been standing on had fallen open. 
Canadian Whole Earth Almanac 
son of whole earth meets the mapleleaf mysteries 
and superpress, 
India Trading Co. Ltd. 
Located at: 
Garlic---inhibits peas and beans, (Garlic ts 
very ueefi 
elsewhere in the garden as a pest repellant. A tea made 
with fresh garlic helps against potato blight, Roses 
grown ‘near garlic have a stronger perfume 
Onions —ate good planted with beets and carrots. A 
few camomile plants 
(1 every 4 yds. of onions) 
are 
breeds with them, 
—— to the Se selon mr 
7 
j, 
ont St. 
or beans, as onions 
inhi 
cir 
growth. 
and gives birth to 
Toronte 160, Ont 
; 
a beautiful babybeaver catalog. 
thats the script. 
jd 
Note: Healing and Canuck issues still available ($4.50 for 
both). These Canadian elves are now hard at workon a 
Carries a complete line of all ingredients necessary 
in Indian cookery. Spices, flours, rices, Dahis, chut- 
neys, nuts, and vermicelli, Price list upon request. 
“best of” titled Northern Comfort. It'll be out in the Fall ’74. 
Until then, their library is still open to everyone. 
Canadian Whole Earth Research Foundation 
Box 6, 341 Bloor Street West 
Toronto, M55 1W8, Ontario, Canada 
—=———— 
aud cls 
[== 
Whole Australian Catalogue 
The first issue of The Whole Australian Catalogue should be out 
early in 1972. 
At present we are negotiating with a publisher; if 
they print it, they will distribute it in the U.S.; if we distribute 
it, you can get it from us at: 
Defunct 
The price will be about $3.00. 
Purpose: 
We think. of Australia as one of the last frontiers. 
In 
a country so vast, the possibilities for learning, experimenting with 
- 
new ways of living, and discovering untouched land and resources 
are still great 
- 
This catalogue is for people who live in Australia, and for 
those who are interested in or who want to immigrate to this 
part of the world. 
It is a guidebook to what is available here in the way of 
tools, materials, information, books, land and whatever else can 
help us to create a new and better environment. 
; 
Contents: 
Dwellings: 
adobe; ferro cement; bark huts. 
Land: 
zoneing; prices; availability. 
Craft: 
weaving; ceramics; bush 
crafts. 
Aborigines: 
myths; culture; survival. 
Learning: 
experimental 
schools; useful tools. 
Ecology: 
conservation activity; use and 
misuse of land. 
Communications: 
music; film; T.V. 
Flora and 
Fauna: 
Australian native plants; animals; edible plants. 
Food: 
growing your own; beer and wine making. 
Immigration: jobs; 
acceptance of foreign credentials. 
Industry: 
access to materials 
for building, crafts. 
Communes: 
why, who, how're they’re doing. 
_ 
Survival: 
in the bush, on land, at sea, in the air; outdoor activities. 
Meanwhile, we might be able to offer some help and ideas for 
those who are thinking of coming to Australia. 
Immigration: 
If you want to get a visa for travel only, there’s 
no problem. 
Getting one for permanent residence is another 
thing. 
It can take 2 or 3 months, so you have to be patient. 
Also, they check lots of sources: 
your background, past activities, 
etc. 
Sometimes they refuse without telling you why. 
Memory Holloway 
David Matthews 
j 
~— 
=a 
~ 
‘NOTE: BANK TO BE 
—-_ 
SLOPED AT LEAST 
Mp 
A brush dam 
Maine Times 
John Cole is not reporting on the whole earth. 
The state of 
Maine ts his beat, and the results of his focus are obvious. 
Earth Times fo/ded the same year Maine Times soared. 
Cole’s weekly circulates all over the U.S., but his paper is 
primarily about Maine’s ecological problems. Maine Times 
is revolutionary in that it’s a straight business, dependent 
upon circulation and advertising revenue like most publica- 
tions; and yet, it takes no shit. If the Times’ editorial policy 
offends a potential advertiser, that’s the advertiser’s problem. 
| 
Aside from its good work as a conservation news medium, 
the Times does a favor for us all by proving that power does 
not always rest in the hands of sons of bitches. The Times 
has been a central force in uniting Maine’s lonely, isolated 
little voices for conservation into a tough political fist. It 
aint hippies they’re uniting, and Maine Times a/nt a hippie 
newspaper, although the Freak spirit obviously dwells in 
the hearts of these newspaper pros. The Times /ives at that 
difficult but special meeting place of overground and under- 
ground, with no apologies in either direction. So do a lot 
of other people, apparently. Maine Times circulation is 
climbing. Let’s hope it’s true, that as Maine goes, so goes 
the nation. 
—Gurney Norman 
Maine Times 
John N. Cole, Ed. 
$1 O/yr 
from: 
41 Main St. 
Topsham, Maine 04086 
4 
| 
| 
ft 
i
|| 
:
:
*s 
y
4 
{ 
\ 
