_ Burroughs’ domain is the interface of individual mind and 
social mind——control. When social controls become demented, 
suicidal, the individual must break from them and find his 
own health. This book is a discussion of 
the control-busting 
echniques Burroughs has explored: Scientology’s E-meter, 
_word-subversion, violence, doing nothing, tape recorders, 
a pomorphine, contradictory commands. All methods of 
_ seizing the social tools and firing them against them- 
selves. 
4/t’s important research in a critical, invisible realm. My 
only carp would be Burroughs’ assumption of crafty, subtle, 
))- 
efficient intellects behind society’s controls... 
which 
! describes Burroughs but hardly describes the tired men 
‘ve seen earnestly coping with.the top jobs in the Pentagon 
and the Department of the Interior. Their main activity is 
| trying not to fall over their own feet. 
—SB 
The J ob: ‘Interviews 
with William S. Burroughs 
Daniel Odier 
1970 
189 pages 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
: 
Grove Press, Inc. 
s 
214 Mercer St. 
\ 
New. York, N.Y. 10012 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
“Navigare necesse es. 
Vivare no es necesse.” 
“It is necessary to travel. 
It is not necessary to live.’’ These words 
inspired early navigators when the vast.frontier of unknown seas 
opened to their sails in the fifteenth century. Space is the new 
frontier. 
!s this frontier open to youth? | quote from the London 
Express, December 30, 1968: 
“If you are a fit young man under 
twenty-five with lightning reflexes who fears nothing in heaven or 
on the earth and has a keen appetite for adventure don’t bother 
to apply for the job of astranaut.’’ They want “cool dads” trailing 
wires to the ‘‘better half’ from an aqualung. Doctor Paine of the 
Space Center in Houston says: ‘This flight was a triumph for the 
squares of this world who aren‘t hippies and work with 
slide rules 
and aren't ashamed to say a prayer now and then.”’ 
Is this the great 
adventure of space? Are these men going to take the step into 
regions literally unthinkable in verbal terms? To travel in space you 
must leave the old verbal garbage behind: God talk, country talk, 
mother talk, love talk. You must learn to exist with no religion no 
country no allies. You must learn to live alone in silence. Anyone 
who prays in space is not there. 
i 
The last frontier is being closed to youth. However there are many 
roads to space. To achieve complete freedom from past conditioning 
is to be in space.. Techniques exist for achieving such freedom. These 
techniques are being concealed and withheld. 
In The Job. | consider 
techniques of discovery. 
8 
Why then does the subject when he is trying most desperately to 
make a good impression make the worst impression possible? 
Because he also has the goal to make a bad impression which oper- 
ates on an involuntary automatic level. This self-destructive goal 
is-such a threat to his being that he reacts against it. He may be 
conscious or partially conscious of the negative goal but he cannot 
confront it directly. The negative goal forces him to react. The 
Reactive Mind consists of goals so repulsive or frightening to the 
subject that he compulsively reacts against them and it is precisely 
this reaction that keeps these negative goals in operation. 
We take karate and Aikido training in the schools scattered through 
large cities of the world, our Scientology training at Scientology 
centers. Other courses are provided by a network of institutes and 
foundations often short-lived. The training is often interrupted. 
Three months of karate then Scientology take up all my time and 
just before the advanced Scientology courses | am shifted to Cairo 
for an intensive course in Egyptian hieroglyphs. This center is closed 
down by the government. After. that there is a weapons course 
financed by a rightist billionaire in East Texas where we learn to 
_ use every weapon from a crossbow to a laser gun, a seminar in black 
magic of Africa sponsored by an ethnology institute in London that 
is always short of funds, a volunteer experiment in prolonged sense 
| eae and the Dynamic Sphere 
"Aikido is the most recent and most brilliantly conceived of the 
_ Japanese martial arts. A superb fighting technique, it is 
_ scarcely interested in figh ting——it doesn’t even have matches, 
_ just training. You train to put your mind and body in the 
_ same place for once——the one-point at your center of gravity. 
| You train to acquire and direct Ki-—energy (not strength, 
| but coherent energy: when it’s flowing you don’t have to 
| move). You train to blend with your opponent and use his 
| energy to unhinge his attack. | find this book by two 
| Americans to be far more useful for learning aikido than 
| 
the numerous texts by Japanese students of the original 
| master Morihei Uyeshiba. The illustrations here are 
) profoundly better than the usual photographs. They 
| depict the mental image——which is the heart of aikido 
technique. An editor can use aikido, a general, an actor, 
_acraftsman, a politician, a designer. What the body 
. 
| learns and practices becomes useful in any realm. 
—SB 
- Aikido and the Dynamic Sphere | 
from: 
A. Westbrook and O. Ratti 
Charles E. Tuttle Co. 
1970; 375 pp. 
Rutland, Vermont 05701 
[) $12.75 postpaid 
ses 
ee 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
T’ai-Chi 
\%e 
ve only watched two people doing t’ai chi. 
ees 
For teachers near you, get in touch with: 
American Aikido Federation 
142 West 18th St. 
New York, N.Y. 
Your own Centre must become the center of your attacker's 
action as well. The Centre is not restricted in aikido, as we have 
indicated, to your personal dimension. 
If aman attacks you, he 
has lost his-own point of independence and balance by the very 
irrationality of that act, and you must substitute your own 
Centre in an attempt to return the situation to normal. Thus he 
attacks, you evade; he plunges into a vacuum, you lead and 
guide him back around your own Centre and neutralize his 
attack. 
Control the Attack by Leading it. 
For teachers near you, 
in front of a two-car garage, 
get in touch with: 
‘swooping and turning. 
the other, cathy dutton, 
sun on her eyelids, 
slowly working it out 
in the front lawn in menlo park. 
it is beautiful dance-with-the cosmos 
Ys personal movement, 
meditational motion, 
and maybe it can be learned from a book. 
a 
—jd 
[Suggested by Jim Frierson] 
| ae 
an old man at sunrise, 
211 Canal St. 
New York, N.Y. 10013 
T’ai-Chi 
Cheng and Smith 
eo7) 69; 112 pp. 
9. 
75 
Bbstpard 
Tl rom: 
Charles E. Tuttle 
28 South Main 
| 
Rutland, Vermont 05701 
or 
> 
WHOLE EARTH 
Tai Chi Chuan Association 
How should a novice begin his training in T’ai-chi? He should relax 
completely. The aim is to throw every bone and muscle of the 
body wide open so that the ch7 may travel unobstructed. Once 
- 
this is done, the chest must be further relaxed and the ch’i made 
to sink to the navel. After a time the ch? will be felt accumulating 
for mass integration in the navel, from where it will begin to 
circulate throughout the body. 
withdrawal set up the.U. S. Navy which ended in a Congressional 
investigation of brainwashing, a free fall club in North Dakota, skin 
diving and just when | arm. getting used to the aqualung we are thrown 
out of Geylong where the program is and | do a Yoga stint in Northern 
India. 
The aim of academy training is precisely decontrol of opinion, the 
students being conditioned to look at the facts before formulating 
any verbal patterns. The initial training in non-chemical methods 
of expanding awareness would last at least two years. 
During this 
period the student would be requested to refrain from all drugs 
including alcohol since bodily health is essential to minimize mental: 
disturbance. 
After basic training the student would be prepared for 
drug trips to reach areas difficult to explore by other means in the 
present state of our knowledge. 
The program proposed is essentially a disintoxication from inner 
fear and inner control, a liberation of thought and energy to 
prepare a new generation for the adventure of space. With such 
possibilities open to them | doubt if many young people would 
want the destructive drugs. Remember junk keeps you right 
here in junky flesh on this earth where Boot's is open all night. 
You can’t make space in an aqualung of junk. 
the more people we can get working with tape recorders the more 
useful experiments and extensions will turn up why not give tape 
recorder parties every guest arrives with his recorder and tapes of 
what he'intends to say at the party recording what other recorders 
say to him it is the height of rudeness not to record when addressed 
directly by another tape recorder and you can’t say anything 
directly have to record it first the coolest old tape worms never 
talk direct 
a 
a 
After the.baptism of silence the student moves'with ease in the 
soundless medium but words are at his disposition when he needs 
them to be used with absolute precision. 
Society riakba, all these criminals quite deliberately, these great 
concentration camps, where they dump people known as criminals. 
Many of them are psychopaths, that is, they are refractory to 
control. As soon as they become criminals, there will be no more 
trouble from them at all. They're right in that game of cops and 
robbers for life, in a concentration camp. But now they’ve begun 
extending this concentration camp, extending it and extending it, 
by making more laws and making more people criminals, if all the 
laws were enforced, they'd have practically everyone in the concen- 
tration camp, and everyone else would be necessary to guard them. 
They have reached an impasse: 
they must either admit that the 
whole thing is a farce and that laws are not meant to be enforced, 
or change them, or enforce them. 
A blow may be delivered to your head (attack no. 13, shomen uchi). 
You will pivot and kneel down, so that you are facing the same 
direction as your opponent. Your arm(s) will not “block”’ in the 
sense of stopping his motion, but will be extended so as to protect 
yourself. At the same time you will guide his motion (via his wrist 
or even sleeve) from the inside, lead him in full, circular extension 
forward and then down. This can be accomplished almost without 
touching him. 
There is no pulling, no dragging; it is just a smooth, Siifipla: circular 
lead, synchronized perfectly with your attacker's own movements. 
It is blended dynamically with them and, therefore, almost unnoticed 
until he is in flight. He falls, but yet does not know precisely how 
he came to fall. 
Ct Coe 
ae 
He also intended to go on dismantling the old house, to tear as 
much of it down for salvage as he possibly could before the coming 
winter's rains. Emmit had only taken boards off as high as he could 
comfortably reach.. He had stripped the weather boarding from the 
lower portions of the house on three sides. With a ladder D.R. 
would be able to get three times as much lumber as Emmit had be- 
fore he even touched the insides of the house. Emmit had worked 
the lumber with a hammer and a wrecking bar, pulling out the nails 
and trimming up their edges with a saw. As he cleaned the boards 
he had stacked them neatly in a corner of the barn. He had 
scavenged more lumber than he needed for his hutches. 
It wasn’t 
clear what-he had intended to do with the extra, but D.R. knew 
exactly what his own intentions were: 
he was going to remodel 
two of the stalls into a weather-tight room, and live in it that winter. 
Two rooms, if he could get them done. 
And three rooms, if Estelle would come to live there with him, 
and help him with the work. 
If Estelle would come, they would convert ¢ one whole end of the 
barn into a house, and live there together by the rabbits and the 
worms and near the garden. They would get up early every morn- 
ing and work to improve their place. If they wanted to, they could 
have a hundred hutches full of rabbits, and a million worms a year. 
They could have five hundred hutches full, and ten million worms 
at work in their manure, if they wanted to. If they wanted to, they 
could have a thousand hutches, one standing on every five square 
yards of that oid ruined mountain, shitting pure worm food onto 
the ground, creating perfect iettuce beds and comny stands and 
alfalfa fields galore. 
They could do that if Estelle would come to live there-with him. 
They'd do all of that, and more. 
If she came. 
Calisthenics 
3 
Learning 
