Learning 
Dr. Spock 
Baby and Child Care by Dr. Benjamin Spock 
is an excellent book to have handy, especially 
with a first child. 
The advice and explana- 
tions Dr. Spock gives regarding fever, rashes, 
coughs, innoculations and clothing for the 
infant is presented in simple language, some- 
what wordy and repetitious, but in such a 
manner that you cannot misunderstand or 
contuse his instructions. Bathing an infant 
and sterilization of bottles, etc. seemed far too 
complicated. 
The chapters on illness, first aid, 
and special problems are excellent and 
probably the most read and re-read chapters 
in the book. Not only do you get lots of 
psychological guidance in the areas of toilet 
training, weaning, thumbsucking, and bed 
wetting but, as may be expected, there are 
sermons on agressive children, no-war toys 
and growing up in a bomb-oriented world. 
You couldn’t possibly agree with everything 
Dr. Spock says but after reading this book you 
are left with the feeling that you should relax, 
enjoy your baby, do what seems right and 
natural and that Spock is speaking from 
experience and common sense. 
[Reviewed by Connie Duckworth] 
from: 
How to Parent 
So many child psychology books leave an unsure new parent 
more anxious or even guilty feeling. 
This one builds con- 
fidence. 
How to Parent js both a practicable review of child psychology 
and an excellent catalog of toys, books, records, equipment, 
parental survival, and inexpensive do-it-yourself materials and 
projects useful in a child’s physical, emotional and intellectual 
development. 
The text concentrates on the different stages of development 
from birth to six years, offering the most basic findings of 
behavioral science in relation to each stage, and usable 
advice on how to help a child structure his self-concept to 
become a self regulating person. Most important, the author 
insists the application of these findings and advice be guided 
by the feel of childhood——a contact with the child within 
you that you once were, and that parents must have the 
wisdom to follow their own hearts, no matter what the 
“experts” say. 
[Reviewed by Faye Kesey] 
‘See Epilog, page 711 “How to Father’ 
You may be able to toilet train a child who is less than.a year old, 
but you are going to have to pay a psychological price for 
training that early. Personally, | don’t think the price is worth 
it. 
C) 
Let's be very clear: you cannot spoil an infant. Cuddle your 
infant as much as you want; you won't spoil him. Feed him as 
often as he’s hungry; you won’t spoil him. Sing and coo to him 
as much as you want; you won’t spoil him. Pay attention to him 
as often as he cries; you won't spoil him. The best things that 
can happen to your baby, psychologically speaking, is to have as 
many of his needs gratified and to have as few frustrations as 
possible. 
His ego or sense of selfhood is too tender and immature 
to be able to cope with much frustration now. There will be 
plenty of time for life to teach him about frustrations when he 
is older. 
e 
Books are far inferior in effectiveness to what a mother can do to 
stimulate the language development of a child. Continue the “label 
the environment” game that you started in the stage of infancy. You 
can do this wherever you are with hiff. Point to objects in the house 
and name them for him. When you are riding in the car, you can 
point out and name objects that you are passing: 
truck, tractor, 
house, church. 
We may say, ‘Now that was a bright thing to do, wasn’t it?” or 
“How could you be so dumb?” or ‘‘Haven’t you got any sense?”’ 
Each time we unleash one of these belittling statements we are 
chipping away at our child’s self-concept. 
Threats deal with the future, but children live in the present. 
Therefore, threats are useless in improving the future behavior 
of achild. 
Mother is hurt and furiously accusatory: 
“‘Willie-—you promised!”’ 
She doesn’t know that promises are meaningless to children. A 
promise, like its older brother, a threat, deals with the future. 
But 
small children live only in the present. 
If a child is a sensitive 
youngster, extracting a promise from him will merely teach him 
to feel guilty if he breaks it. Or, if he is not so sensitive, it will 
merely teach him to be cynical, and substitute verbal behavior 
for true behavior change. 
Parent 
Learning 
- 
More babies are overdressed than underdressed. This 
isn’t good for them. If a person is always too warmly 
dressed, his body loses its ability to adjust to changes. 
It’s a good idea to begin offering a sip of milk from 
the cup from the age of 5 months, so that the baby 
gets used to it before he is too opinionated. 
Baby and Child Care 
Dr. Benjamin Spock 
1946, 1968; 620 pp. 
$.95 postpaid 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
cheeks, 
A 
going to two, 
e 
He is more likely to become chilled. So in general, 
put on too little rather than too much and then 
7 
watch the baby. Best guide is the color of his face. 
If he is getting cold, he loses the color from his 
To some degree, the first pregnancy spells the end 
of carefree youth—very important to Americans. 
The maidenly figure goes gradually into eclipse, and 
with it goes sprightly grace. Both eclipses are 
temporary but very real. The woman realizes that 
after the baby comes there will be distinct limita- 
tions of social life and other outside pleasures. 
No more hopping into the car on the spur of the 
moment, going anywhere the heart desires and 
coming home at any old hour, The same budget 
has to be spread thinner, and her husband's attention, 
all of which has gone to her at home, will soon be 
155. Gradual weaning from breast to cup in the 
middle of the first year. 
!f a mother is producing 
plenty of milk, how long should she plan to nurse? 
Better to remove and distract him than just to say, “No, nol” 
Best of all, most natural of all, is to nurse until the 
baby is ready for weaning to the cup. Most breast- 
fed babies are becoming bored between 5 and 6 
months, 
Pocket Books 
@ 
1 West 39th Street 
New York, N. Y. 10018 
@ SIGNET REFERENCE = ¥4527 - $1.25 
First Dr. Spock, 
then Dr. Ginott, andnow 
HOW TO 
PARENT 
___ennitvns 
The revolutionary new approach 
to your child’s formative years that 
puts joy back in parenthood and 
discipline back in child-rearing 
Er 
$1 -50 pastpaid 
from: 
New American Library, Inc. 
1301 Ave. of the Americas 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
If you get upset and angry at a child’s temper tantrum you will 
reinforce it. Then he will know that he can get to you any time 
with a tantrum. 
Don’t try to reason with a child in the midst of a 
temper tantrum or try to talk him out of it. He is a boiling sea of 
emotions. 
He is in no mood to listen to reason or logic. Above 
all, don’t try to get him over a temper tantrum by the threat of a 
spanking. Haven't you overheard parents say to a child in the 
midst of a tantrum, ‘Shut up, or I'll rea//y give you something to 
cry about!"" That's like trying to put out a fire by pouring gasoline 
on it. 
; 
What should you do when your first adolescent throws a temper 
tantrum? What you want to convey to the child is that this 
tantrum is something he apparently has to go through, but that it 
will get him absolutely nowhere.: How do you convey this to him? 
You ignore the tantrum. 
Each mother has to find the ways which 
are most comfortable for her to do this. Some mothers can stand 
there and say nothing and wait until the tantrum runs down of its 
own accord. Others will want to say: 
“| know you're frustrated 
and mad, but you'll need to go to your room until you've finished 
crying. Then when you’re through | have something interesting 
to show you.’ Others will say sternly: ‘‘Go to your room!” 
Find 
the method of ignoring temper tantrums that suits you best and 
use it. But most of all, try to help your child save face by giving 
him a graceful way out of the situation, if at all possible. 
A 2-year-old baby shouldn’t be worrying about the 
consequences of his actions. This is the period when 
he is meant to learn by doing and having things 
happen. I’m not advising that you never warn your 
child in words, but only that you shouldn’t always 
be leading him out beyond his depth with ideas, 
Between the ages of 1 and 5 years, children may 
develop fever as high as 104° (sometimes even highe 
at the onset of mild infections, such as colds, sore 
throats, grippe, just as often as with serious 
infections. On the other hand, a-dangerous illness 
may never have a temperature higher than 1019, So 
by the height of the fever, but get in touch with the 
The time to start a’ child on the road to awareness is when he is-a 
preschooler. A true awareness of the sensory world is his most 
basic foundation for thinking. 
In addition to providing a wide range of sensory experiences for 
our children, we need to provide a variety of materials which they 
- can use as stimuli for their thinking— materials which your child 
should have between the ages of three and six. He should have 
available lots of paper; crayons, felt pens or watercolor pens; 
scissors with blunt ends; stacks of old magazines; cardboard of 
various shapes and sizes; a blackboard with white and colored 
chalk; a scrapbox for collage, containing all kinds of scrap wood, 
fabric and paper; glue; wooden blocks of various sizes; dress-up 
| 
clothes and costumes; a record player or tape player;inexpensive 
 . 
records he can play by himself; good records you-play for him; Lego 
or similar types of construction toys; playdough and clay; books. 
Your child should have a set of plastic, magnetic alphabet letters 
and numerals and a metal blackboard they can stick to. Without 
the above-mentioned materials, your preschooler would be as 
handicapped in his thinking as a college student with no textbooks. 
There is also no reason why your child cannot continue to have an 
evening bottle to go to sleep by, even at this ‘advanced age” of 
two or two and one-half, Many of your neighborhood “experts” 
will frown on you if you do this, and say: “‘What— he’s two and 
a half and he hasn’t given up the bottle yet?’’ So what? What's 
the rush? If he still likesit as a-security device, is there any reason 
why we have to insist he give it up at this age? Ail three of my 
children had a bedtime bottle. They didn’t give up until they were 
between two and one-half and three years of age. 
One of the important things about the evening bedtime ritual is 
that it should. be a time of pleasure for your child. We.want him 
to look forward to going to bed. He should not feel that bedtime 
is something unpleasant, where’he is banished abruptly to a dark 
room, while the rest of the family does interesting things. The 
evening bedtime ritual should not only be a time of pleasure for 
the child, but for mother and father as well. 
DR. DODSON’S WHIZ-BANG, SUPER-ECONOMY PARENT'S 
SURVIVAL KIT 
- 
: 
If you have skimmed over this entire list of books, your reaction 
right now may be: ‘‘Wow! 
I'd like to buy scads of those books, but 
my family budget won't stand it!’’ | have considered that very im- 
portant financial factor and come up with the following list of 
thirteen paperback books which will form a basic home library for 
parents at the relatively modest cost (considering today’s inflation) 
of only $11.60 for all of them. Here they are: 
1. Baby and Child Care, Benjamin Spock (Pocket Books), $.95. 
2. How to Give Your Child a Good Start in Life, Leland Glover 
(Collier, 1962). $.95. 
3. The Intelligent Parents Guide to Raising Children, Eve Jones 
(Collier, 1961). $.95. 
4, How to Guide Your School-Age Child, Leland Glover (Collier, 
1965). $.95 
5. Between Parent and Child, Haim Ginott (Avon, 1969), $1.50. 
6. Child Behavior, Frances \lg and Louise Bates Ames (Har-Row) $.95 3 
7. Your Child’s Play, Arnold Arnold (Essandess Special Edition, 1968). 
1.00 
& oe Therapy, Virginia Axline (Ballantine, 1969). $1.25. 
9. A Parent’s Guide to Children’s Reading, Nancy Larrick 
(Pocket Books, 1969), $.50. 
10. A Parent’s Guide to Children’s Education, Nancy Larrick 
(Pocket Books, 1963), $.50. 
11. Summerhill, A. S. Neill (Hart, 1966), $2.45 
12. Accident Handbook, Children’s Hospital (Children’s Medical 
goer [300 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts] , 1950) 
13. A Parent’s Guide to Better Baby-sitting, Faye Cobb (Pocket 
Books, 1963), no longer available 
TOTAE COST: 
$12.20 
| 
don’t be influenced too much, one way or the other, 
doctor whenever your child appears sick in any way. 
r) 
£ 
