—SB 
[Suggested by Timmi Bushbaum] 
|| Design Department 
| Southern IIlinois University 
| Carbondale, Illinois 62901 
| SIX SUB-SYSTEMS OF MAN’S EXTERNAL METABOLICS~ 
| Definitions 
: 
|| Materials Conversion— Sub-system whose function is to reduce 
i complex or heterogeneous matter-energy into more simple or basic 
forms of matter. 
| Tool Making— Sub-system that takes pure or processed matter 
| (from matter conversion) and makes it into more organized 
| configurations that are to be utilized by all sub-systems (including 
|| tool making). Tool making outputs all tools and contact products 
(see definitions) but not services. 
|| Power Conversion— Sub-system that transforms unutilizable 
|! matter-energy into energy utilizable by the entire technological 
system. 
‘Transportation— Sub-system whose primary function is to deliver 
matter-energy forms and some types of information from sub- 
|) system outputs to desired inputs of the sub-systems. Transportation 
| also performs storage functions for matter-energy and information 
temporarily not being utilized by the technological energy. 
Media-People— Sub-system whose primary function is to 
| accumulate, integrate, store and distribute information for all 
| sub-systems. The effects of people occur primarily in this sub- 
_ system. 
| Everything Else— Those variables in universe over which man has 
no control (or over which man has relinquished control). 
Dymaxion Sky-Ocean World Map Kit 
| $1.25 for the punch-out kit 
(includes shipping) 
from: 
_ Fuller Dymaxion Maps 
Box 909 
- 
Carbondale, IL 62901 
The shiny flat maps are $6 
from: 
Fuller Dymaxion Airocean World 
3508 Market St. 
Philadelphia, PA 19104 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Extinction 
Of the innumerable topical board games that have come 
by lately, this is the first we’ve seen that is both an interesting 
\game with some subject—fresh dynamics and pretty good 
education. Suppose you're a nocturnal species with a high 
litter size of 10 and mobility of 20; you ‘re already 
‘over- “populated and in hazard of famine or pestilence; 
you breed in swamps and marshes and you have water 
pollution resistance (water pollution just eliminated your 
‘competition in the marshes); you have defense against 
swift predators, but one of your opponents is crafty and 
you think the other one is strong since he changed genes 
last turn; you spin the spinner and get—watch out—migrate 
ane 
reproduce; what do you do? [1 would migrate out of 
marshes and swamps and up next to the predators before 
reproducing. Then spread the new individuals thin in 
“unfavorable’ environments, thus reducingmy reproduction 
|rate and keeping well buffered against environmental 
shanges in my breeding grounds. Also I’d look for new genes.] 
if the game could include considerations of nutrition, 
energy cycles, and specialization, I‘d be happier with it, 
but the makers encourage you to add your own rules to 
ake this flexible game closer to the Big Game. 
—SB 
5 
xtinction: The Game of Ecology 
No longer available 
nauer Associates, Inc. 
0 Second Street 
tamford, Connecticut 06905 
for immediate release 
FLASH 
GOD CREATING THE UNIVERSE 
Photo 
by Mrs. God 
Systems and Education 
Author: John Pfeiffer 
Title: New Look at Education: Systems Analysis in our Schools 
and Colleges 
Publisher: The Odyssey Press, N. ya 
Cost: $1.00—Paper 
Total No., of Pages: 162 
Books on systems are usually either loaded with statistical equations 
so complex that even advanced graduate students can’t figure out 
what the author was saying, or they are specific to esoteric subject, 
like the hormone system of the species Ratus Ratus. Admittedly, 
such books are important to a very overspecialized scientific few, 
but for me (a layman) they take on the average of about one year 
to translate into everyday “living language”’ to be useful. 
However, John Pfeiffer DID IT!!! He wrote a small book, with no 
excess verbage or professional.rhetoric, which describes simultaneously 
the fascinating history, slow development, and almost karmatic 
application of systems analysis— all over the recent past thirty 
years. 
This in turn, is blended into a concise description of the 
basic elements of “the systems approach,”’ with numerous “‘living” 
example for (pee to the naturalness of being and living with 
systems. 
One last comment. 
There ts fast approaching the long shadow of 
both individuals, and our entire society, beginning the mad scramble 
to discover and reset the most important prionties for personal and 
planetary survival. 
Which comes first? (Circle One!!!) Racism? 
Ecology? Cosmic Consciousness? Joy? Education? Poverty? Love? 
Population? Self-Awareness? Tools? God? Birds? Books? Man? 
Each group scrambles for identity and social awareness of its cause, 
and is eaten up by the mass media. And each person does two year 
stints at this or that, and not having “made it,” put on another cause 
for another two years (with appropriate clothes.) 
But what if there is no “first cause (or first sin)? What then? Where 
to begin?!?!? “begin at the beginning, of course!” With everything. 
And then decide what to do and what to believe in. Pfeiffer helps 
man begin, by inviting him to take a look at systems, and then to 
make conscious decisions, with a renewed knowledge that whatever 
one does is interrelated IN SPECIFIC WAYS to EVER YTHING 
THAT IS. 
Paul R. Poduska 
Ambherst, Mass. 
Education Automation 
Education Automation 
R. Buckminster Fuller 
Doubleday & Co., Inc. 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
| would say, then, that you are taced with a 
future in which education is going to be number 
One amongst the great world industries, within 
which will flourish an educational machine 
technology that will provide tools such as the 
individually selected and articulated two-way TV 
and an intercontinentaily net-worked, documen- 
taries call-up system, operative over any home 
two-way TV set. 
See Epilog, page 456 
/n this book Fuller is mainly concerned with educational 
access: designing ready access to comprehensive and 
replicable information and designing mobility as the 
basis of education. 
—SB 
Education 
— 
Automation 
1962; 88 pp. 
Freeing the scholar 
$1 .95 
to return to his studies 
from: 
R. Buckminster Fuller 
We also find that generally speaking the geographically 
larger the physical task to be done, the duller the 
conceptual brain that is brought to bear upon the 
integration of the scientific discoveries and their 
technically realized applications. 
Finally, weget 
to international affairs, and you know whatis 
happening today. 
{ would counsel you i your deliberation regarding getting campuses 
ready now to get.general comprehensive environmental controls that 
are suitable to all-purposes like a circus. A circus is a transformable 
environment. 
You don't need a detailed drawing; we do not make that kind of 
communication to a craftsman anymore; but all the schools go on 
teaching that we do. The data no longer goes to the craftsman; it 
goes to the tools. The idea of drafting measured details is going to 
become obsolete. We don’t want any more measured detail drafting. 
What we want is the man who gets the fundamental concept, the 
information significance and can do some comprehensive thinking 
regarding that information. 
He will put the data into the information 
machines, and it will be processed by automation into physical 
realization of his effective thinking. We don’t need many of the 
myriad of *‘things’” we have had in schools. 
if te : 
Ca 
es 
Sn 
a 
Sayans 
SS 
ATTENTION 
Attention drove the afternon along outside of space and time. 
It drove the work along like floating free of gravity. 
It lifted the work above its own resistance and its friction, like 
running naked after wearing heavy boots and suits of clothes. 
It set the posts and tamped them firm. 
It drove the nails unerringly, and ran the one-by-sixes across the 
front and past the dog-leg by the stump, and pointed then along 
. the final side to link up with the other corner of the barn. 
It closed the fence. 
It held them to their task till they had cut 
a door in the barnwall for the pigs to come out through, and smell 
out their new universe. 
Reluctant, then curious, the pigs came out, cautious, one at a 
time, then gathered in committee in the corner to inspect D.R.’s 
and Leonard’s work. 
They approved. 
Grunting, muttering little squeals, they scattered across this 
unexpected ground, and one pissed on it. D.R. and Leonard laughed 
at that, and D.R. listened carefully to their laugh. He watched 
closely as Leonard fed the hogs, and closed them back in their stall 
for the night. 
On.their way to the house for supper he paid attention when 
Leonard said: next winter when we have us some good sausage for 
breakfast we'll remember this day, David. 
That thought thrilled D.R. and he paid attention to the thrill. 
He paid attention to Roxie pouring turpentine in the wounds 
from his day’s labor. He noticed how her hands felt on his, he paid 
attention to her presence, close, and to the food she had prepared. 
Roast beef, boiled potatoes, beans, cole slaw heavy with 
mayonaise, rhubarb, cornbread, cold milk, and then banana pudding 
for dessert. D.R. noticed every bite he took, he paid attention to 
his mouth chewing, he tasted every flavor that there was, and all 
their exotic mixtures in his mouth. He paid attention to the coffee, 
and when they had finished supper he experienced himself getting 
up and saying he guessed he better get on up the hill and get his 
animals fed —— and watered —— before it got dark. 
He thanked Roxie for the supper, and Leonard thanked D.R. 
for the work. D.R. paid attention to Leonard’s face and voice when 
he said it. Leonard offered to pay D.R. but D.R. said oh no. 
| owe 
you that much. 
Leonard said, Well, when | get a little time I'll come up and give 
you a hand. 
I'll be needing it, D.R. said. 
Come down and go to church with us tomorrow if you want to, 
David, said Roxie. 
© 
D.R. said he didn’t think he would, but he thanked her for in- 
viting him. 
We'll see you later then, said Leonard. 
Yeah, said D.R. Good night, you all. 
And he left then. He got home with just enough daylight left to 
"do his chores. 
The Game 
Learning 
