~ Boomerangs 
| For wonderfully complete information on construction, 
__ history, throwing, purchase, and appreciation of boomerangs, 
_ 
write to Benjamin Ruhe at The Smithsonian Institution, 
office of Public Affairs, Washington, DC. 
Following are excerpts from his Boomerang Workshop. 
__ | love The Smithsonian. 
_ 
5 
6" a 
{camel aten) ’ 
' 
/ 
lifting 
NOTF: These sections 
are elightly exegger- 
eted for clarity. 
Cut to the relative 
Proportions shown. 
Work should be very 
securely clamped, 
and knife blede 
realty sherp. 
Making Your Own 
; Making your own bogmerang i 
is not difficult; all you need is a piece 
of ‘Three eighths” five ply (actual thickness is about five sixteenths, 
but to get this you usually have to ask for three eighths thickness), a 
| 
sharp knife and a whetstone to keep it sharp, a couple of small ‘’C’”’ 
‘| 
clamps, a sheet of 80 grit sandpaper, and a suitable saw to cut out the 
| shape. 
The boomerang illustrated is for right handed throwers. If you are 
left handed, all you need do is to look at the plans through a mirror 
so that everything is reversed from right to left. 
The design of the boomerang shown below is a very simple one, 
selected as especially suitable for a beginner to make as it requires 
no previous experience and is foolproof (well, almost), giving a nice 
curving flight that should bring it back fairly close to the thrower. Also, 
| because of its flexible design, it can be made with a large variety of 
plywoods, and the 18" size means it can be made from readily 
available off-cuts from a lumber yard, sparing you the expense of 
buying a whole sheet. It is NOT, however, a competition quality 
boomerang, but will give you hours of enjoyment nevertheless. 
PROCEDURE 
| Obtain a sheet of aircraft or high-grade marine plywood (5 ply) and 
mark out the straight lines shown in the diagram. The actual elbow 
and tips should be rounded, however--do this by drawing a couple of 
circular arcs at the elbow with a 3-inch drinking glass or compass, and 
| with a 6-inch dish or the equivalent. Draw the curves for the tips in 
freehand as shown in the figure and then cut it out, using a saw. Next 
clamp one arm firmly to a table or workbench, leaving the other one 
free to work. With straight, even strokes, slice off wood to attain the 
aerodynamic contours shown in the sectional drawings at the bottom 
of the main sketch. Make sure that the direction of the knife stroke is 
such! chat it makes an acute angle with the grain on the top layer of 
wood; otherwise this may tear or lift off. If you find this happening, 
' cut from the other direction. 
Do not be afraid to take wood off, but check from time to time that 
you are following the general sections shown in the drawing. When 
completed, the weight of the boomerang should not exceed four ounces. 
' After the knifework is over, sand it down smoothly with 80 grit 
‘sandpaper and give it a few throws. If all appears to be well, finish the 
boomerang off by coating it with floor wax or brown shoe polish to 
| 
waterproof it. If it does not return properly, but tends to run out of 
| spin and drops in front of you, sand off a bit more material from the 
trailing edge of the dingle arm making the taper near ‘’b’’ more sloping, 
| 
until it works right, but be careful not to take too much off or you'll 
| wreck the whole thing. 
With regard to the balance of a boomerang , this is a fairly complicated 
thing. Suffice it to say that the important thing is not so much the 
“static balance you see when you put it across your finger, but the 
~dynamic balance of it whenin flight. It should appear to have a hole 
about two inches in diameter when spinning rapidly, at the inside 
curve of the. elbow. Actually, it is this hole that does the travelling 
when the boomerang is thrown, the fact that it is accompanied by the 
| boomerang being more or less incidental. 
' Suitable Conditions 
| The boomerang should be thrown into a LIGHT BREEZE ONLY. 
' 
Early morning or late afternoon usually offer the best conditions. 
Larger boomerangs can at times be thrown into fairly moderate winds, 
_ but generally the results are poor. Best results are obtained when a few 
' blades of grass have to be used to indicate wind direction. 
Throwing into high winds even on a large clear area is dangerous, since 
| these conditions cause the boomerang to climb steeply, and travel 
with the wind a great distance, and at a great speed. 
) 
The Throw 
- Grasp either end of the boomerang with the thumb and first two 
fingers of the right hand (special boomerangs are needed for left 
_ handed people) and hold it firmly with the flat side-‘outward so that 
the plane of the boomerang is inclined at about 60 degrees to-the 
i horizon, then give it a gentle throw with plenty of spin. 
“It should curve around to the left and climb slightly, turning around 
and finally stopping to hover in the vicinity of the thrower. 
The key. to success in the whole operation is the imparting of con- 
| siderable spin on the throw, and this is aided by holding no more than 
' an inch and a half of the tip of the boomerang, and by not actually 
“releasing it but by making it pull itself out of the hand by its own 
impetus, pivoting around the index finger when doing so. 
4 
ae 
Architecture 
! don’t know that architecture is a useful term or profession 
any more. 
This book gets a kid into building stuff and some 
of the traditional considerations in doing that. 
‘ 
; 
—SB 
Architecture’ 
co 
i icky ehrabe 
Van Nostrand-Reinhold 
1968; 96 pp 
450 West 33rd Street 
, 
i 
New York, N. Y. 10001 
$6.95 postpaid 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
PROJECT 4 — BUILD A CORBEL 
Materials: 
Box of sugar cubes. 
Procedure: 
Place cubes on top of each other with the end cube of 
each course (row) projecting about one third of its length over the 
front edge of the cube beneath it. You will notice that unless there 
are enough cubes behind the projecting end cubes the construction 
will fall forward. You will also notice that it is possible to stack the 
cubes higher if the projection is shorter. There is a relationship of 
projection to height in a corbel the same as there was in the column. 
If you construct two such corbels opposite each other, ten or 
eleven cubes high and about five inches apart so that the top cubes 
meet each other, you will have a pyramidal opening. This is how 
corbels are used to span openings. 
When you have made the structure, hold it in your hand and gently 
squeeze. 
If it does not feel rigid but moves in your hand look for 
the configurations that move. You will find that these invariably 
are not triangluated. Glue toothpicks across their corners to make 
them rigid. 
Jonathan Livingston Seagull 
A Blood woman told me “Behind the Sun is the real Sun.” 
This book is about flight that way. Beyond perfection of 
technique is another perfection, a further freedom, another 
discipline. Jonathan eventually has to insist he is not the 
Son of the Great Gull. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Sharon Graham] 
Jonathan Livingston Seagull 
Richard Bach 
1970: 93 pp. 
$1.50 plus $.15 postage 
from: 
Avon Books Mail Order Dept. 
250 W. 55th St. 
New York, NY 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Here he came this minute, a blurred gray shape roaring out of a 
dive, flashing one hundred fifty miles per hour past his instructor, 
He pulled abruptly into another try at a sixteen-point vertical 
slow roll, calling the points out loud. 
*.. .eight. . .nine. . .ten. 
. .see-Jonathan-!’m-running-out-of-airspeed 
. eleven. 
. .l-want-good-sharp-stops-like-yours. 
. .twelve. 
. .but- 
blast-it-I-just-can’t-make. 
. -thirteen. 
. .these-last-three-points. 
. 
. 
without. ...fourtee. 
. .aaakk!" 
Fletcher's whipstall at the top was all the worse for his rage and fury 
at failing. He fell backward, tumbled, slammed savagely into an 
inverted spin, and recovered at last, panting, a hundred feet below 
his instructor's level. 
“You're wasting your time with me, Jonathan! 
I’m too dumb! 
I'm 
too stupid! 
| try and try, but Ill never get it!” 
Jonathan Seagull looked down at him and nodded. “You'll never 
get it for sure as long as you make that pullup so hard. 
Fletcher, 
you lost forty miles an hour in the entry! You have to be smooth! 
Firm but smooth, remember 
?”’ 
And so they flew in from the west that morning, eight of them in a 
double-diamond formation, wingtips almost overlapping. They came 
across the Flock’s Council Beach at a hundred thirty-five miles per 
hour, Jonathan in the lead, Fletcher smoothly at his right wing, 
Henry Calvin struggling gamely at his left. Then the whole formation 
rolled slowly to the right, as one bir. . .level. 
. .to. 
. inverted. 
. .to 
level, the wind whipping over them all. 
The squawks and grockles of everyday life in the Flock were cut off 
as though the formation were a giant knife, and eight thousand gull- 
eyes watched, without a single blink. One by one, each of the eight 
birds pulled sharply upward into a full loop and flew all the way 
around to a dead-slow stand-up landing on the sand. 
* 
Simple Working Models of Historic Machines 
Far-out ingenuity revisited. 
=§__ $B 
Simple Working 
Models of Historic Machines 
Aubrey F. Burstall 
1968, 1969; 79 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
from: 
The M. |. T. Press 
50 Ames Street, Room 765 
Cambridge, Mass. 02142 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Wheels 1,2; 5,6, 7 8;11,12:- Bevel gears,}:1 ratio 
Wheels 3,4 ;9,10:— Spur gears, }:Iretio 
The Chinese South-pointing Chariot 
A full-scale machine of this kind was used in ceremonial processions 
in China between A.D. 120 and 250. 
It seems that its purpose must 
have been simply to cause awe and wonder in the onlookers since 
whichever way the chariot was turned the figure on the top always 
pointed in the same direction. This intriguing result was obtained 
by means of differential gearing, very similar to that used in the 
back-axle of the present-day motor vehicle. Possibly pin gears 
were used in the originals, though this is not certain. 
“Home | have none. 
Flock |! have none. 
| am Outcast. And we fly 
now at the peak of the Great Mountain Wind. Beyond a few hundred 
feet, | can lift this old body no higher.” 
“But you can, Jonathan. 
For you have learned. One school is 
finished, and the time has come for another to begin.” 
As it had shined across him all his life, so understanding lighted 
that moment for Jonathan Seagull. They were right. He could 
fly higher, and it was time to go home. 
He gave one last long look across the sky, across that magnificent 
silver land where he had learned so much. 
“\'m ready," he said at last. 
And Jonathan Livingston Seagull rose with the two starbright 
gulls to disappear into a perfect dark sky. 
Ces 
ae 
“| said this is Emmit Collier's nephew,” said Barry. ‘‘David’s 
his name.” 
“Cecil Agnew!” the old man shouted. “Who? What did you 
say?” 
“Emmit Collier!” Barry yelled. 
is his nephew.” 
Mr. McClanahan heard the word “‘died” and suddenly it all came 
together in his mind. He shifted his cane to his left hand and with 
his right he reached out and grabbed D.R. by the leg, just above the 
knee, and squeezed hard. 
But when he spoke, he still addressed himself to Barry. 
“1 knew this boy's grandfather,” said Mr. McClanahan. ‘Me and 
him use to log together. Hard worker. Knew his father, too. That 
was a good family of people.” 
g 
“David here’s going to live a while at.the old homeplace,” Barry 
said. 
“Do which?” 
“Y said, David's going to live a while up there where Emmit did. 
He’s taking care of the place.” 
Mr. McClanahan shook his head. ‘’Trace Fork used to be full of 
people,” he said. “But they aint nobody lives up there now that 
Emmit’s dead.” 
Barry smiled and nodded and let it go at that. 
Kcontinued) 
Ox te 
eee 
“Kid Technology 
ony EB QT 
/ 
Learning 
“That died the other day. This 
ole
nual
