ee 
eee 
ee 
Gurian Guitars & Lutes 
‘Gurian 
Up till about two months ago it would have been 
impossible to even consider listing ourselves in your 
catalog due to the fact that our instruments were 
very highly priced; with a long backlog of orders. 
We felt at that point that we had an obligation and 
committment to people other than the large money- 
making groups and single entertainers (i.e. Bob Dylan, 
The Band, Richie Havens, John Sebastian, Jake 
Holmes, Judy Collins, etc.); so we reorganized the 
shop and started training people in building fine 
quality, handmade guitars. 
We are now in the process of having our catalog 
printed. For the time being we have enclosed a 
description and price list of all our instruments: we 
will try to forward some pictures to you, so that 
you can see and judge for yourselves our high quality 
standard. 
Yours faithfully, 
Michael Gurian 
Gurian Guitars, Limited 
Hinsdale, N.H. 03451 
STEEL STRINGS 
Size I 
Mahogany sides and back; spruce top; black 
ebony fingerboard; Schaller machine heads; 12 
fret to the body; plays best with light or extra 
light guage strings; price, $250.00 
Mahagany sides and back; spruce top; black 
ebony fingerboard; Schaller machine heads; 14 
frets to the body; plays best with light or medium 
guage strings; price, $325.00 
same as above, but, with rosewood sides & back; 
price, $425.00 
Mahogany sides & back; spruce top; black 
ebony fingerboard; Schaller machine heads; 14 
frets to the body; plays best with medium or 
heavy guage strings; price, $300.00 
Size 3 
Size 3 
Jumbo 
same as above, but, with rosewood sides & back; 
price, $400.00 
Classical Guitars 
cL 1 
Jumbo 
Mahogany sides & back; European spruce top; 
black ebony fingerboard; Landstorfer machine 
heads, when available; price, $325.00 
Indian rosewood sides andblack; European spruce 
top; black ebony fingerboard; Landstorfer 
machine heads, when available; price, $425.00 
| 
Concert model: Brazilian rosewood sides & back; 
best quality European spruce top; black ebony 
fingerboard; Landstorfer machine heads, when 
available; price, $525.00 
Flamenco 
In keeping with the tradition of the flamenco guitar, I have 
developed a guitar that possesses the brightness and clarity 
of sound sought after by flamenco guitarists. In addition, 
my guitars have the sound projection of a classical guitar. 
For this result, I use specially selected woods for the top, 
back, and sides. If preferred, the traditional Spanish cypress 
would be used. As in the classical models, Peruvian mahogany 
and black ebony are used for the neck and fingerboard. The 
head may be fitted with friction pegs or Landstorfer 
machines. This model also has a handmade rosette. The 
price of the flamenco guitar is $750.00. 
Lutes 
1) Elizabethan: This model is constructed with either 7 or 8 
courses, depending on personal preferences. Woods employed 
are Peruvian mahogany for the neck with black ebony for the 
the fingerboard, curly maple for the boat and spruce for the 
top. Rosettes are designed and handcarved in the traditional 
manner. 
The price for this model is $850.00. 
CL 2 
CL 3 
Guitars & Banjos 
Communications 
Guitars 
Friends: 
here are a few things you might want to include in your 
catalog: 
C. F. Martin guitars: There are a lot of things to look for in buying a 
guitar. Some, like the feel of the neck, are really subjective and 
individual with different musicians. 
But you also want to know that 
the instrument will last and improve with time and use. This is where 
the Martin company comes in. For a long time, they’ve been making 
honest, workmanlike guitars. 
I’ve had a D-18 for the last 6 or 7 years 
and it continually amazes me. The tone improves every time! play 
it. Martins are about the-best steel-string acoustic guitars-made in 
any quantity. They’re a joy to play.: They're not too good for riding 
freights/bumming because they’re relatively fragile, but they hold up 
with proper care, for a long time. 
Gibson Electric guitars: 
| don’t dig Gibson acoustics too much—— 
some people find them really durable but | don’t like their tone 
very much. Gibson electrics are another story. 
I’ve had a Gibson 
ES 335 electric guitar for quite a while. 
It has a beautiful neck, 
and will do almost anything in terms of tone production that you 
want from it. Things to look for in buying one are: 
1) a good 
neck. Gibsons vary tremendously, so be careful. 2) ‘‘Hum- 
bucking’ pickups are really the best on the market. Gibsons 
last forever. Mine’s fallen off stages all over the country, & 
it’s still good as new. 
If you buy a Gibson, try for one over 
2 yrs old (pre-1968), otherwise examine the workmanship very 
critically. 
V. C. Squier strings: These strings are really hard to find, which 
is a damn shame, because theyre the best strings made in the 
U.S. They’re smooth to play & will enhance the tone of any 
stringed instrument. 
I've only used their guitar strings, but | 
suspect the others they make (violin, etc.) are just as good. Bug 
your music store ‘til they get some in. Here are some kinds they 
make: ES-2500: 
Tops! these are smooth roundbound strings, 
$5.75 a set (list) & worth it. Also in light gauge, ES-2550. 
They also make nylon wound electric guitar strings, which | 
haven't tried. These could be really beautiful strings (ES—8000) 
V.C. Squier Co. 427 Capital Ave, S.W., Battle Creek, Mich 49016 
Stan & Jane Davis 
Denver, Colorado 
Squier Strings 
the reason squier strings are so scarce (and perhaps the reason they 
are so good) ts that v.c. squier co. is a very small operation— only 
6 or 8 people. as stan says, though, they are indeed the best string- 
makers (?) around, and from what i’ve heard, they offer a service 
avatiable nowhere else in the country (to my knowledge at least): 
they will custom-make sets of strings to your specifications. 
i know 
of a fellow who gets hand-made smooth round-wound strings with 
an elliptical core— easy on the fingers. 
any guitarist who really knows what he wants will do well to send 
them a letter of inquiry. 
V.C. Squier Co. 
Div. of CBS Inc. 
35 §. Edison St. 
Battle Creek, MI 49105 
Mark Talaba 
Squier also makes Fender strings. 
(Fender is also a division of CBS.) 
Stewart—MacDonald Banjo 
I thought you might be interested in hearing about a 
company that specializes in banjo parts. 
oN 
Catalog 
; 
, 
$0.50 
y 
from: 
Stewart-MacDonald Mfg. Co. 
Box 900 
Athens 
Ohio 45701 
They carry a full line of products, 
have a catalog, and 
operate entirely by mail. They also seem to give very 
fast service, and the quality 
of their products is very 
good, As they add new items, they publish supplements 
to their catalog which are apparently sent to everyone 
on the mailing list. 
Stephen R. Monaghan 
KROLL GEARED 5TH PEG 
The best solution yet for keeping the 5th string in tune. 
9 to. | gear ratio eliminates slipping. 
No. 38—Polished Nickel 
No. 39—Gold Plated 
With Five Star tuning knob and thumbscrew—add $1.50 
to the above prices. 
. 
The John Dubroff Instrument Makers List 
« 
This arrived late and unexpected, so we’re jamming in a piece of it. 
Why 
don’t you start a Catalog, John. 
—SB 
This list originally started out with the intention of being ‘“The 
Great North American Musical Instrument Maker List’’, but 
i
intentions being subject to change without notice (what with area 
; 
informants, and half the instrument makers contacted, not replying), 
it has ended up essentially a Promotional Directory to the Central 
} 
California Way, with a few excursions to Elsewhere in the nation. 
;
; 
Wherever you are, there are a good many more makers of instruments 
near you than you think. Many of them are like mushrooms, they 
appear suddenly and don’t stay in it, or around, long. Doesn't 
necessarily mean they do poor work. Scout around, go direct to the 
source— more fun than buying from a shop. 
And catalog collectors, please spare these fellows listed here; none 
of them can afford your Habit. 
cheers, 
John 
California 
R. Kent Albin 
675 Golden Gate Ave. 
San Francisco 94102 
Guitars: 
classical, steel string, electric; Electric bass; Acoustic and 
electric Dulcimers; Electric Violins, violas, cellos, and quintons; 
Irish harps; Hummels; Lyres; Viol da Gambas; Harpsichords. 
Electric Violin 
Also available are various accessories, wood, tools, and custom made 
cases. 
Catalog free. Mail order, yes. 
Patrick Armstrong 
3052 Telegraph Ave. 
Berkeley, CA 94705 
phone: 549-1604 
Harpsichords ard clavichords made on order for rent or sale. 
Payments are around $20-$50/month; $1000 for chavichords, $2000 
and up for manual harpsichords; also pedal harpsichords. 
Capritaurus 
Box 153 
Felton, CA 95018 
phone: (408) 335-4478 
Appalachian Dulcimers, $40 up to $150; custom models also. 
African Thumb Pianos, $8; made of mahogany or ash with ten keys. 
Dulcimer price sheet available; mail order, yes. 
Haldon Chase 
Rt. 1, Box 122 
- 
Paso Robles, CA. 
Renaissance instruments: 
Lutes, Viola da gambas, Italian harpsi- 
chords. No catalog; prices vary with individual instruments. 
Mail 
order, yes. 
John Dubroff 
107 Grattan St. 
San Francisco 94117 
phone: 665-0783 
Four-string Dulcimers: 
$90; $150. $150 model comes with either 
carved animal head (pictured) or carved scroll. Both models are 
made large for volume, so that they may be played with guitar. 
Plucked Psaltries: 
16 strings, $60. Mail order, no. 
The Dulcimer Works 
1723 W. Washington Blvd. 
Venice, CA 90291 
phone: (213) 821-8514 
Dulcimers: 
spruce face 
on all models. Walnut back and sides, 
$99.50. Rosewood back/sides, $150. Three or four strings. Mail 
order, yes. Steel string guitars soon available. 
Childs Family 
P.O. Box 482 
Soquel, CA 95073 
Traditional Appalachian Mountain Dulcimers. The two traditional 
shapes, three or four strings; $50 to $65. Mail order, no. 
Steven Freegard- 
P.O. Box 377 
Cambria, CA 93424 
Woodwinds: 
flutes, recorders, double reeds. Exotic and native 
hardwoods are used for the woodwinds, which are made in any 
size or scale. When specified, they are fitted in carved wooden 
cases. 
Prices range from $25 to $100-plus. Catalog no, mail order, 
yes. 
Pi 
String instruments: 
All one-of-a-kind pieces, e.g. spike fiddle, 
large fretted drone, koto-type, etc. These are made from gourds, 
bamboo, hardwoods, and whatever else. Prices run from $20 to 
$500. Most of these string instruments are too bulky or delicate 
to mail. 
Morris Freeman 
P.O. Box 392 
Paradise, CA. 
Dulcimer: 3,4, or 6 strings; electric also. Sizes vary, prices also 
from $100 to $200. Mail order possibly. 
Dennis Grace 
3052 Telegraph Ave. 
Berkeley, CA 94705 
phone: 549-1604 
Classic guitar: $600 and up. Steel strings on request. “Acoustical 
research in the classic guitar.” 
Larry Higgins 
160 Noe St. 
San Francisco, CA 94114 
Guitars: 
classical, steel string, $350 to $400; electric solid body, 
$375 (usually set up with two thumbuckers, Tune-a-matic bridge, 
Schaler heads) 
Dulcimers, $75 to $100. 
Viols, $450 
Clavichords, lutes, etc. 
Mail order, no. 
(continued) 
