Women in Communes 
“In education, in marriage, in everything, disappointment is the 
lot of women. It shall be the business in my life to deepen this 
disappointment in every woman's heart until she bows down to it 
nolonger.”” 
— Lucy Stone, 1855 
The first time | picked up an ax, | felt a sense of failure. Twenty-two 
years of inactivity, a few isolated attempts—pretending to paint the 
house with water while my brother, who was only a year older 
than [, did the real job; or being told to do the dishes instead of 
mowing the lawn. 
What ! have learned about the ax is true of most kinds of physical 
work;use your head, and the ax does the work for you. | learned to 
hit the log first at one angle, then at another, forging a “V"’ into 
the trunk. | learned that the thicker the log, the wider the angle 
had to be; that the ax should come down of its own weight, 
® quided by the hands, and that the arms and body should follow 
through, just as in swinging a baseball. bat. The first day it was 
hard work—I kept missing the log, and | got tired 
very easily. The 
second day was not so bad. Now |'m no longer afraid of the ax. 
There are different kinds of weakness—the kind that grows in the 
mind, the kind that the body feels if it never has been used—and 
the weakness of bullshitting yourself by assuming you can’t do 
something. 
The world we live in moves so incredibly fast that it is very easy to 
avoid asking what we can do, and more important, what we like 
to do. Conditioned we are—for instance, any woman who lives in 
the city can pretty well write off needing to use an ax. And most 
white middie class women (and men) assume that such 
activity 
is beyond the scope of women’s potential, calmly ignoring the 
trusty old pioneer women, the women in rural areas who still 
chop wood every day—and even the ones who live in the less 
affluent part of the city, who more often than not work a hard 
day to earn a wage that barely supports a family, then work as 
their own house-keepers for no pay and no recognition. The assump- 
tion that women are “‘weak things’ is a middle class Juxury. For 
lower class women, the opposite myth is more convenient—women 
are good at tedious {and physically.difficult) shit work. 
Certain taskshave to be done every day in nearly every living 
Situation {although we often exaggerate addenda into the essential: 
furniture wax is both aluxury and acruel oppression.), but this 
world never offers a us chance to ‘‘start again,’’ with a lump of 
labor and a group of undifferentiated human beings, so that 
everyone can decide what he or she really prefers to do, and in the 
process become not just man or women, but human. 
_ Something approximating such a chance occurred this summer for 
asmail group of people living on a farm commune. There were 
twelve of us, give or take a few, for most of the summer, doing 
work which consisted of planting, weeding, pulling trees, and 
harvesting, as well as chopping wood, cooking over an open fire, 
washing clothes, and keeping the tents and the camp clean. There 
was no running water, which made housekeeping chores a little 
; 
more difficult, and no electricity, which meant that some of the 
work, like washing the dinner dishes, was usually done in the 
dark. 
Even though there was no society-dictated division of labor, even 
though we had complete freedom to determine the division of 
labor 
for ourselves, a well-known pattern emerged immediately. 
Women did most of the cooking, all of the cleaning up, and of 
course, the washing. They also worked in the fields all day—so that 
after the farm work was finished, the men could be found sitting 
around talking and taking naps while the women prepared supper. 
In addition to that, one of the women remained in camp every day 
in order to 
cook lunch—it was always 
awoman_ 
who did this, 
never a man. Of course, the women were excused from some of the 
tasks; for example, none of us ever drove the tractor. That was 
considered too complicated for a woman. We never would have had 
to haul wood or chop it if we hadn‘t wanted to. 
Does this story sound exaggerated? | think it is true that even men 
who verbally condone the liberation of women.would tend to react 
the same way in a similar situation, as the result of conditioning. 
It is true that to some extent our group was free of the dictates of 
society last summer—but of course we weren't free fof our cultural 
conditioning, which exists outside the society's institutions, and is, 
in fact, embodied in the individual. The men in our group were 
exhibiting a collective system of belief based on early training. 
The women, too, had much to overcome, and we had to consciously 
organize ourselves to face the oppressive 
conditions which we 
were partially responsible for creating. We were a minority, and 
most of us were unattached; we were all between the ages of 
fifteen and twenty-four; all of us had thought and read, in varying 
degrees, about the problems which 
women face. We began 
holding private caucusses in the woods, far enough from camp'so 
that we could feel free from any stray masculine ears. These meetings 
were not held in secret, though we said little about them, but they 
were considered a declaration of war by the men in camp, and in 
a sense we considered them a sign of secession from the normal order 
of life as pre-determined by the men, and by our own maimed 
outlooks. 
| 
In the meetings we discussed day to day experiences in the camp, 
related them to what we had gleaned from the past and the condi- 
tion of women in general, and began to educate ourselves by 
reading and sharing general knowledge. Our strategy was a total 
re-orientation of our images of what we could and could not do. 
One of our tactics was complete non-response to hostility on the 
part of the men. We had to learn to differentiate between legitimate 
attempts to discuss women’s liberation, and sheer harassment. To the 
the former we would willingly respond; the latter met with neutral 
silence. In order to forcibly shift the division of labor, we began 
doing other chores around dinner time. Collecting and chopping 
wood was. an activity which was often neglected in the course of 
the day, so after our regular farm work, we would turn to the 
wood instead of the pots. We tried to discover and do things that 
needed to be done for the maintenance of the camp—building 
- 
rather than cleaning. 
\f a tense situation arose, where a sister was uncertain how to react, 
there was usually another sister nearby, and a smile, a hand on the 
arm, or just the knowledge of concern, helped everyone keep 
calm. We felt that consistency and complete discipline in regard 
to our willingness to work were of utmost significance in showing 
the males that our intent was not to humiliate them, but to work 
toward amore healthy environment for everyone concerned. 
Our experiment was a colossal failure. In analyzing what went 
wrong, it is probably unfair to place the blame on the men’s inability 
to understand. Yet, as a woman, that is the only conclusion | can 
come to. alot of dusty old myths were dragged out and shoved in 
our faces. 
.. you don’t work fast enough; a man can’t even get a 
decent meal around this place unless he cooks it for himself; 
before you learn to drive a tractor, learn to get the dishes clean 
(t don’t want you fucking with my tractor, baby); is there something 
wrong with your sex life? you want to be just like 
aman... 
4 
For several weeks we lived in two separate camps. If we went 
. 
gathering wood at dinner time, the men cooked—for themselves 
only. They washed their own dishes, but never the pots and pans 
that the food had come from. 
In the field we were a separate 
women's brigade—all day we worked together and talked liberation, 
separate from the men. 
Those were happy days! Left alone, we taught ourselves, feeling 
free to be clumsy at first, knowing that we wouldn't laugh at each 
other. | think we all began to develop confidence in our ability to 
do things, and my own physical endurance increased tremendously— 
! had no reason to let a man take over, ever. | think my ‘sisters and 
| learned to love and value each other as women seldom can when 
they are divided from each other and forced to compete for 
recognition by the men in their lives—forced to compete much in 
the same way that capitalism forces men to compete against each 
other. In each case, it is the best position in the pecking order 
that determines how people act toward each other. 
The fact that half of the women involved with the farm commune 
project are no longer there, and that the other half are consciously 
compromising in order to insure the succes of the farm, is a testimony 
of the 
long fight which we all face. The inability of men to respond 
to our attempts to liberate ourselves seems to be an indication that 
now is the time to isolate, to learn, to build, and if necessary, 
when we have the strength, to force a change that must come if 
we are to be free. Cultural change, through the breaking of boundary 
conditions on behavior, will have to occur, and can only occur, 
through a conscious re-orientation of our own self-images. 
By Kit Leder 
Originally Published in 
“Women: A Journal of Liberation 
Diana‘s Rap 
successfully avoided dealing with-the whole women’s 
lib question for months. Faced with the necessity of 
working on these pages, | sat myself down and read Time’s 
spread, and Life’s and a bunch of other stuff. And | came 
to realize why {’d been avoiding it. I’ve been relating to 
ali kinds of far-out movements for years, but this time, | 
couldn't identify. 
Sympathize, emphathize, yes, but the 
evening's reading left me feeling terribly sad and alienated 
from a scene that somehow should be my scene too. 
Nearly ali the literature refers to the rare exception—the 
woman who has somehow “overcome” all these cultural 
patterns and makes her own decisions, leads her own life, 
does her owrr thing. Well, | don’t at all enjoy feeling like 
an “exception”, and | was never aware of overcoming 
great obstacles—male or otherwise. I’ve simply been 
leading my life and making my choices and sort of 
: 
assuming everyone else was too. 
have been: —a secretary, 
—a lab technician, —a clinical social worker, —an encounter 
group leader, —a wife (for one year), 
—a student (for six 
years), —a lover (-ess?), —a political activist, —a probation 
officer, —an editor (tress?), —paid less, always, thanmy 
- male counterparts. | haven't ever been: —pregnant, 
—miarried for ten years, —a mother, —a full-time housewife, 
or /ots of other things which | realize form some of the 
experience from which 
women’s lib springs. Ill be 30 
next year. 
! have also never felt completely satisfied and fulfilled as 
a woman and as a human being. Neither has anyone else 
1 know, and that includes men. | do remember once a 
woman / was working with confronting our male co- 
workers with a very passionate plea, “You see me as a 
woman, as a mother,.as a little girl, as a this, as a that—I 
wish you'd remember ./’m a HUMAN BEING!” It blew 
my mind, and | jumped in with my, “1 feel just the 
opposite—you see me as a competent, talented, strong, 
and you forget |‘V A WOMAN”. Whereupon | burst into 
tears, having meant, of course, “I’m JUST a woman; | 
shouldn't HAVE to be as strong as you are; | need also 
to fee! helpless, dependent, and weak sometimes”. 
—~ 
Well. 
SEVEN MONTHS LATER: 
Wince, shudder. 
| wrote that six months ago, & now | want to say, 
“1 take it all back! | didn’t know what | was talking about!” | 
don’t know very well how to describe how my head’s changed around 
since then, but it’s been a lot & in such a direction as to make me 
wince & shudder at what | wrate then. A /ot of the women’s issues 
are far more subtle & pervasive than I had realized, & getting into 
them has been an exciting & devastating experience, and still is. 
Becoming more aware of how we all are, indeed, oppressed, goes 
Women 
Community 
| dig women’s lib very much and appreciate a lot of what 
it’s all about, and | find myself being affected by some 
of the thinking that’s going on. | don’t dig large parts of 
it—having spent a lot more of my 
life in the conventional 
“men’s world” than in the conventional “women’s 
world” (i.e. at home), | suspect a lot of women of 
over-romanticizing “the world out there”. Thousands of 
men’s jobs are at least as boring, tedious, repetitive, non- 
creative, and unsatisfying as housework and diapers. 
Nearly always there’s less opportunity for physical 
movement during the day, for doing different things on 
different days, for listening to music while you work, for 
taking a nap, or doing a dance—in the “men’s world”. | have 
longed —get this— for the freedom of being able to 
regulate and choose my own schedule to some extent. For 
possibly having sometimes four hours to prepare a feast, 
when the mood strikes, instead of the hungry, post- working 
day quick supper. | have certainly over-romanticized the 
life 
1’ve never led —husband that will take care of me 
and deal with all that “business”, babies, etc. The current 
sweep of women’s lib inclines me a lot less toward these 
indulgences, and that’s probably what | most appreciate. 
That and the theme that “this is bigger than the.bot’n us” 
—that men suffer from their cultural roles at least as 
much as women do, and that the real problem lies deeper 
—lies, in both cases in a society and family structure which 
makes it very difficult for anyone to realize his full poten- 
tial, or even any very close approximation. 
On one level, | simply lucked out. With three sisters and 
no brothers and a father who is no sort of male chauvinist, 
! always felt there was plenty of room for me to define 
my own role, without a whole hell of a lot 
of respect for 
convention. | live in a commune now, with 5 men and 5 
women, and we all take turns cooking. The women tend 
to clean up more, but the men always take out the 
garbage & take 
care of the yard. Various of us work at 
various times, and perhaps our strongest implicit goal is 
for everyone to be able to live the way they most want 
to, within our “family structure’, and within the recog- 
nition that everyone has to do their share of the chores. 
The sisterhood between the 5 women Is the strongest 
hand in hand with becoming more frustrated because we have so far 
to go. The most tolerant of environments doesn’t go very far in 
undoing the years (centuries!) of conditioning/suffering we all carry 
around inside ourselves. 
The process of sharing & exploring with 
other women helps a.lot. For the first time in a long time, for me, 
there’s a kind of integration going on in my head that involves 
getting.my own experiences together with what’s happening in the 
world in some kind of semsible way. 
A couple of books that really turned me on: Sisterhood is Powerful 
edited by Robin Morgan (Vintage, $2.45), whose introduction is 
worth a whole book in itself. And, in a totally different line, 
Doris Lessing’s The Golden Notebook, a story of two very un- 
liberated “liberated” women. 
-Diana Shugart 
‘i 
7k Ba 
Photo from Women & Their Bodies 
and most profound I’ve ever experienced—/ think the 
same Is probably true of the brotherhood of the men. | 
can‘tdeny 
that we've all been‘affected by our cultural 
conditioning. Perhaps all | really want to say is that 
changes are being made, right here in river city; sympathet- 
ic male ears are available—my 
god, the last thing our 
men want is a bunch of submissive drudges around the 
house. Which isn’t to say they aren't capable of feeling 
threatened by us. | experienced very peculiar feelings 
myself when |. walked into the kitchen and saw one of 
my “brothers” cleaning out the refrigerator, and whis- 
— 
tling like a lark, grinning to himself, muttering and 
wondering what had got into him, and really enjoying 
i
himself thoroughly. What.! love most about the commune 
Is that | feel like 
|can be whoever | want to be—/ can 
wait on the men 
(and the women, too, for that matter) 
and take great pleasure in it, and! can 
also argue with 
them, be hostile, be loving, be submissive, be rebellious, 
do. someone else’s thing, da my own thing, participate in 
our communal vision, etc. Just like a family should be. 
See, the thing is, | suspect that lots women could do 
all these those things with their families too, if only they 
would. Your freedom is often, or largely, as much as you 
have the courage to grab for yourself. Which is to say, 
mine has been. And which isn’t to say | can always do 
any, much less all, of the above. | figure | have a pretty 
tolerant environment, though, and it’s my responsibility 
to get it on for myself. With a lot of help from my 
friends. Ok. 
—- 
—Diana Shugart 
‘
BEB RBRBB BBR SBR RBRBRBRBRRSRBRRBESRERRERBPSRRSERBRSSSES 
Re 
ieael 
2 
Victimized 
:
Women’s Liberation convinced me with the complaint voiced by 
Laura: 
‘T resent having to sleep on the wet spot in the bed, and 
I particularly resent being made to feel guilty about it.” 
—SB 
