The Biosphere 
Our yard, the turning processes that keep it refreshed, and 
where balance is most fragile to our mistakes. 
This book 
was a single theme edition of Scientific American 
/ in 1970; 
it’s well up-to-date. 
—SB 
The omer’ 
°1970;14 
$3.50 Postpaid 
from: 
W.H. Freeman and Company 
660 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA. 94104 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Evolution fitted the new species together in ways that not only 
conserved energy and the mineral nutrients utilized in life processes 
but also conserved the nutrients by recycling them, releasing more 
oxygen and making possible the fixation of more energy and the 
support of still more life. Gradually each landscape developed a 
flora and fauna particularly adapted to that place. These new 
arrays of plants and animals used solar energy, mineral nutrients, 
water and the resources of other living things to stabilize the environ- 
ment, building the biosphere we know today. 
The available evidence suggests that, in spite of the much larger 
area of the oceans, by far the greater amount of energy is fixed on- 
land. The oceans, even if their productivity can be preserved, do 
not represent a vast unexploited source of energy for support of 
larger human populations. They are currently being exploited at 
close to the maximum sustainable rate, and their continued use 
as a dump for wastes of all kinds makes it questionable whether 
that rate will be sustained. 
Malnutrition, particularly protein deficiency, exacts an enormous 
toll from the physical and mental development of the young in the 
poorer countries. This was dramatically illustrated when India 
held tryouts in 1968 to select a team to represent it in the Olympic 
games that year. 
Nota 
single Indian athlete, male or female, met 
the minimum standards for qualifying to compete in any of the 
* 86 track and field events in Mexico City. No doubt this was partly 
due to the lack of support for athletics in India, but poor nutrition 
was certainly also a large factor.- The young people of Japan today 
are visible examples of what a change can be brought about by 
improvement in nutrition. Well-nourished from infancy, Japanese 
teen-agers are on the average some two inches taller than their 
elders. 
This year the U.S. will consume some 685,000 million million 
B.T.U. of energy, most of it derived from fossil fuels. (One short 
ton of coal has a thermal value of 25.8 million B.T.U. The thermal 
value of one barrel of oil is 5.8 million B.T.U.) Industry takes more 
than 35 percent of the total energy consumption. About a third 
of industry’s share is in the form of electricity, which, as of 1960, 
was generated roughly 50 percent from coal, 20 percent from 
water power, 20 percent from natural gas and 10 percent from oil. 
Environment, Power, and Society 
Beautiful work. Energy language is the simplifier we’ve 
lacked to see our systems whole. When the cosmic yum 
comes by, you get the ONE! all right, but that may not 
particularly help you work with connectedness. 
The 
terms and understandings in this book can. 
Odum’s point is that the macro-view of our energy systems 
must be clear to all of us——accurate grand images, adapted 
mores and laws, and responsive religions responsible to 
biospherical ethics——or however right in detail we shall 
be wrong big. 
—SB 
ENVIRONMENT, 
Environment, Power, and Society 
Howard T. Odum 
1971; 331 pp. 
$6.50 postpaid 
from: 
John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 
605 Third Ave., New York, N.Y. 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
HOWARD 
T. ODUM 
See Epiiog, pages 469-473 
/ Energy Ecology & Economics” 
Fossil fuel 
«Concentrated energy 
supplement 
Ener 
Whole Systems 
The nation’s homes use almost as much energy as industry does. 
A major consumer is space heating, which for the average home 
requires as much energy as the average family car: about 70 
million B.T.U. per year, or the equivalent of 900 gallons of oil. 
The other domestic uses are for cooking, heating water, lighting 
and air conditioning. 
All together, in order to support one individual in our society, 
something like 25 tons of materials of all kinds must be extracted 
from the earth and processed each year. This quantity seems 
certain to increase considerably in the years ahead. 
~ 
In this book energy language is used to consider the pressing problem 
of survival in our time——the partnership of man in nature. An 
effort is made to show that energy analysis can help answer many 
of the questions of economics, law, and religion, already stated 
in other languages. Models for the analysis of a system are made 
by recognizing major divisions whose causal relationships are 
indicated by the pathways of interchange of energy and work. 
One self-stimulating principle of the primitive group was to 
allocate control of the energy flow of the group to individuals 
in proportion to the work they did to increase that flow. Such 
energy rewards took various forms, such as control of property, 
political power, and status influence. The economic system was 
simple, and economic reward often reflected the energy control 
gained. 
e 
How many persons know that the prosperity of some modern 
cultures stems from the great flux of oil fuel energies pouring 
through machinery and not from some necessary and virtuous 
properties of human dedication and political designs? 
e 
Bit by bit the machinery of the macroscope is evolving in various 
sciences and in the philosophic attitudes of students. The daily maps 
of worldwide weather, the information received from the high-flying 
satellites, the macroeconomic statistical summaries of nations and 
the world, the combined efforts of international geophysical 
collaborations, and the radioactive studies of cycling chemicals 
in the great oceans all stimulate the new view.’ Whereas men 
used to search among the parts to find mechanistic explanations, 
the macroscopic view is the reverse. Men, already having aclear 
view of the parts in their fantastically complex detail, must 
somehow get away, rise above, step back, group parts, simplify 
concepts, interpose frosted glass, and thus somehow see the big 
patterns. 
1000 kilocalories 
concentrated fossil 
fuel energy 
4000 kilocalories 
Sunlight 
Forest Dome 
Field crops 
Range grass 
Energy flow per 
square meter 
5000 calories 
per day 
heat energy 
The earth’s thin film of living matter is sustained 
by grand-scale cycles of energy and chemical 
elements. All of these cycles are presently 
affected by the activities of man 
INTACT NATURAL ECOSYSTEM is exemplified by a mature oak-hickory forest that sup- 
_ 
ports several stages of consumers in the grazing food chain, with from 10 to 20 percent of 
the energy in each trophic level being passed along to the next level. The symbols represent — 
different herbivore and carnivore species. Complexity of structure regulates population 
sizes, maintaining the same pattern of energy distribution 
i in the system from year to year. 
DEGRADED ECOSYSTEM has a truncated grazing chain. The annual production of the 
— : 
sparse grasses, herbs and shrubs fluctuates (shaded area). So do populations of herbivores 
_ 
and carnivores, which are characterized by large numbers of individuals but few different 
species. Under extreme conditions most of the net production may be consumed, leading to — 
the starvation of herbivores and accentuating the characteristic fluctuation in populations, 
_ 
turn requires a waliingogss to discard activities. 
CARNIVORE 1 ‘) 
- 
O00 AAOO C@ 
A 
\ 
. 
HERBIVORE 
ie 
prt eee 
With the turning of the earth, the sun comes up on fields, forests, 
and fjords of the biosphere, and everywhere within the light there 
is a great breath as tons upon tons of oxygen are released from — 
| 
the living photochemical surfaces of green plants which are becoming 
ait 
charged with food storages by = onrush of solar photons. 
The system of man has Sanstanieton in excess of production. Fhe. rey 
products of respiration——carbon dioxide, metabolic water, and ~ 
ie 
mineralized inorganic wastes——are discharged i in rates in excess 
of their incorporation into organic matter by photosynthesis. 
If the industrialized urban system were enclosed inachamber 
— 
with only the air above it at the time, it would quickly exhaust its 
oxygen, be stifled with waste, and destroy itself since itdoesnot 
have the recycling pattern of the agrarian system. The problems 
= —s 
with life support in 1970 on the space flight of Apollo 13 crema, Raia 
| 
this principle to the world. 
e 
The biosphere with industrial man aucidebhy added is like a balance oe 
aquarium into which large animals are introduced. Consumption 
—s_— 
temporarily exceeds production, the balance is upset, the products 
Sinte| 
of respiration accumulate, and the fuels for consumption become 
= 
scarcer and scarcer until production is sufficiently accelerated and — 
respiration is balanced. 
In some experimental systems balance is — 
achieved only after the large consumers which originally started 
the imbalance are dead. 
: 
e 
DARWIN-LOTKA ENERGY LAW 
Thus, whenever it is necessary to transform and restore the grea 
. 
amount of energy at the fastest possible rate, 50 percent of it must — 
go into the drain. Nature and-man both have energy storages as part | 
of their operations and when power storage is important, it is 
maximized by adjusting loads. 
.In the last century Darwin 
popularized the concept of natural selection, and early in this 
century Lotka indicated that the maximization of power for useful — 
purposes was the criterion for natural selection. Darwin’s evolution- 
ary law thus developed into a general energy law. 
Money flows in the opposite direction to the flow of energy and — 
the concept of price which operates among human bargains 
adjusts one flow to be in proportion to the other. Thus a man 
purchasing groceries at a store receives groceries in one direction 
| 
while paying money in the opposite direction. The heat losses of 
these transactions are small since the work involved is small. 
; 
e 
we 
LOOP SELECTION PRINCIPLE 
In dcalogica! studies there is the positive feedback loop through 
which ‘a downstream recipient of potential energy rewards its 
x 
ie | 
source by passing necessary materials back to it. For example, the 
animals in a balanced system feed back to the plants in reward 
e 
loops the phosphates, nitrates, and other compounds required‘for 
their growth. A plant that has a food chain which regenerates 
: 
nutrients in the form it needs is therefore reinforced, and both 
plant and animal continue to survive. Species whose. work efforts — 
are not reinforced are shortly eliminated, for they run out of either 
raw materials or energy. They must be connected to input and 
output flows to survive. 
s 
Stability allows complex diversity and uniqueness of individuals. 
Asin Augustinian Rome, there may be golden eras——if men can’ 
— 
be satisfied with small causes, for energies big enough for new 
causes would have to be diverted from older endeavors. This i 
in- 
