y 
ny: 
Centering 
Bee 
y 
m. c. richards is an east/west potterpoet and philosopher. 
she makes ideas like tassajara porcupines make love, 
slowly, gently, carefully. 
__ fread her that way, opening up to an idea, reading until 
i 
im asleep, munching around the edges, 
letting come together whatever falls together, 
| centering. 
we are what is and what is——is what we are. the world is one. 
_ center us, center it. if it is centered, we are too. 
pull clay around the void, transform it, use it, turn it into a pot. 
BI. Ce -« 
richards may be just a touch too much of a poet. 
\ 
[Reviewed by 
J. D. Smith 
Suggested by Kelly Yeaton] 
Centering 
M. C. Richards 
’ 
1962, 1964; 159 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
Wesleyan University Press 
Middletown, Conn. 06457 
ie 
a 
Sense Relaxation 
c 
This is a book which is an experience while it teaches you how 
to have additional experiences. 
It is a combination of simple 
FE 
straightforward how-to-do-it prose broken by puns (to slow 
_ down your reading) plus sensual photographs of every exercise. 
| Your first time through this book you will only glance at the 
words; the pictures are so compelling. 
The second and third 
I's 
times through you will read individual sections to find out 
_ what the pictures suggest. Finally you will begin to use 
_ this book to add touch, relaxation and pleasure to your 
iq life. This book gives very specific and easily followed exer- 
— 
is _ cises for individuals, couples, and groups to tune in to their 
iF 
_ own bodies and to all their senses. Gunther gives suggestions 
| and.techniques to energize, to tranquillize, and above all to 
increase awareness, 
It is a beautifully designed and executed 
book. 
[Reviewed by James Fadiman] 
Sense Relaxation — 
Below Your Mind 
Bernard Gunther 
Photographed by Paul Fusco 
1968; 191 pp. 
~ 
$4.95 postpaid 
from: 
Macmillan Pub. Co. Inc. 
Front & Brown Sts. 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
“4 
| Alpha 
\ 
: 
I Alpha waves are produced by the brain when it’s being nice 
and quiet. With a sensor you can /earn to produce alpha, so 
_it can bea 
sort of shortcut to meditative skill. But it’s a fussy 
_ problematic business to deal with the sensors. 
i) 
ys Alpha wave sensors are like water beds. A technological step 
in leisure activities they are being manufactured and marketed 
_in profusion, largely on a cottage industry basis. Some are 
_ undoubtedly better than others, but we haven't sorted them 
| K 
out. Here’ ‘s addresses and prices. Good luck. 
: 
: 
=SB 
phawavekit— $26 
— 
[board of assembled electronics. 
! You build audio conn€ctions, electrodes, 
_& 
cabinet. Warbling audio signal for alpha.) 
Bioscope 
857 West Pensacola 
| Tallahassee, Florida 32304 
Cyberscope— $70 
(cheap wired headset) 
ioscope— 
_—_No Longer Available 
from: 
includes warranty. Well spoken of by our 
Inner Space Electronics 
iblic meditator on KPFA) 
Box 319 
“from: 
Fairfax, CA 94930 
Bio-Meditation Society 
19145 Lanark Street” 
Reseda, California aie 
ETC—from $250.00 
: 
from: 
Toomim Alpha Pacer— 
$195-295 
Psionics 
( its ina ickae pocket) 
Box 1919 
from: 
Boulder, Colorado 80302 
-Toomim Laboratories 
0480 Santa Monica Blvd. 
S eeeies: CA 90025 
Psychophysics— $45 
from: 
Psychophysics Labs 
31 Townsend Terrace 
Framingham, Mass. 01701 
c 5 year warranty) 
= 
quarius Electronics 
x 627 
f endocino, CA 95460 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Because | am a potter, | take my image, centering, from the potter’s 
craft. A potter brings his clay into center on the potter's wheel, 
and then he gives it whatever shape he wishes. There are wide cor- 
respondences to this process. Such extensions of meaning | want 
to call attention to. For centering is my theme: how we may seek 
to bring universe into a personal wholeness, and into act the rich 
life which moves so mysteriously and decisively intour bodies, 
manifesting in speech and gesture, materializing as force in the 
world the unifying energy of our perceptions, 
e 
Our studies of Eastern philosophy teach us to let go, to drop it. 
To surrender our attachments, our mentation. To free ourselves 
from ignorance and suffering. Our studies of Western philosophy 
teach us to surrender our minds to perception. Pure thinking has 
its source at the center. Thus Idealism is our Western knowledge: 
to surrender reflections for the evolving forms toward which 
matter is continuously casting itself, 
a dynamic thinking which 
generates rather than mirrors. And Western empiricism, which 
brings us back always sharply to the edges of a particular moment. 
There is only the moment, and yet the moment is always giving 
way to the next, so that there is not even Now, there is Nothing. 
True, true. There is nothing, if that is the way to understanding 
how much there is. 
Most people are half breathers, 
keeping residual air 
in their lower lungs; 
they are unable to take a full 
deep breath even if they want to. 
To breathe deeper 
you must exhale more. Yelling 
gets out all the old air and 
some of those held-in feelings; 
let yourself be open-air. 
It was a scheme to reclaim the soil of the homeplace that had 
been killed by the mining on the slopes above the farm. 
Until 
Emmit started rebuilding the garden soil with rabbit shit behind the 
barn, the only living spot on the homeplace was the little triangle 
of green in front of the house, where some grass still grew and the 
poplar trees and the silver-leaf maple tree had leaves. 
It was only a 
matter of time before that little patch would be destroyed too, 
however, and the old family house along with it. For behind the 
house was a wall of dried mud and shale and blasted rock high as 
the roof in places. 
It had rolled down from the bench above, and 
then in two wet winters continued to slip until now it looked like a 
frozen ocean wave, waiting for another winter to melt it and send it 
flowing through the house and on across the yard toward the road 
and Trace Fork creek below. 
But out near the barn, which stood a little uphill from the house 
and ona 
kind of roll in the slope, the overburden had stabilized. 
It 
had slipped as far as it was going to, and it was there that Emmit 
had chosen to make his effort and invest his work the last few 
months of his life. 
The barn had been pushed off its foundation by the wash of 
overburden, flowing down. A rock big as a car, set rolling by a bull- 
dozer up above, had smashed into the upper end of the barn and 
ripped a big hole in the wall. But in spite of the damage the barn 
was still a fairly solid structure, and when the mud had dried and 
settled Emmit had gone to work behind the barn, spreading all the 
manure and organic matter he could get, in an effort to create 
enough new topsoil to make a garden. 
There'd been some old rotted manure in the stalls in the barn, 
left from the days when the Colliers kept cows and a work horse. 
Emmit had shoveled it out and scattered some spoiled hay over it, 
and then worked that into the spot he intended to garden. Emmit's 
health was starting to fail him even then. That shoveling was among 
the last heavy work he tried. 
It was then he got his idea to raise 
rabbits in hutches as a source of manure for the garden he intended 
to create below the barn. 
A friend of Emmit’s on Upper Rockhouse Creek who raised 
rabbits for meat sold him the buck and the first two does. Emmit 
built hutches for them out of weather boarding he ripped off the 
back of the old doomed house he lived in. Ina year's time he built 
eleven hutches from lumber off the house, and his herd grew to 
nearly fifty rabbits. He fed them commercial rabbit feed that 
Leonard hauled up the creek in the sled by the hundred pound bag. 
It cost him, but the project was important to Emmit and he was 
willing to pay. Emmit received a disability pension from the govern- 
ment for his war wound, a hundred and forty-some dollars every 
month. 
His personal expenses were rarely more than half of that, 
so he could afford his herd of rabbits. Leonard said that Emmit 
would eat a rabbit now and then, but what he kept them for was 
the first-class shit they produced. As it accumulated beneath the 
hutches he spread it on the sterile soil, and in a year’s time he had 
redeemed a patch twenty feet by ten, and it was now growing short, 
single rows of lettuce, carrots, turnips, cucumbers, potatoes, beets, 
tomatoes and comfrey, and two longer rows of beans. 
(continued) 
Centering 
Learning 
