Conscientious Guide to Drug Abuse 
I’d call this THE BOOK to have around if you or anyone in 
your family is doing drugs. /t has kind, quick, accurate 
advice. 
—SB 
Conscientious Guide to Drug Abuse 
Vic Pawlak 
1973; 48 pp. 
$1.00 
from: 
Do It Now Foundation 
6136 Carlos Ave. 
Hollywood, CA 90028 
conscientious 
iP} 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
mT 
¢ 
DRUG 
quantity orders for resale 
abuse 
from: 
ty VC PAWLAK 
National Media Center 
P.O. Box 5115 
Phoenix, Az 85010 
SPECIAL EDITION 
BUM TRIPS 
One of the prime factors inherent in acid is the possibility of incurring 
a bum trip. This possibility has kept many from tripping. Over the 
past several years in particular, it has been nearly impossible to obtain 
pure acid. Most stuff is mafia-originated and cut heavily with speed 
and/or strychnine (rat poison). Under clinical circumstances, bum trips 
rarely occur unless provoked. But when acid contains strychnine, 
speed or other impurities, the possibility of a bummer increases 
tremendously. 
The best advice to give straight or inexperienced people about dealing 
with bum trips is: Don’t panic. Be gentle, kind, and smile a lot. If 
neceassary to avert a traumatic chains of events, divert the person with 
_, pleasant music or a change of atmosphere (like turning off or on the 
| 
lights), Most bum trips could have been prevented if the right — 
information was only known by the person’s friends ahead of time. 
Clinically, Thorazine (a strong tranquilizer) has often been used to 
relieve the effects of a bum trip. Thorazine works by tranquilizing the 
system and relieving the built-up tension. Lately the use of Niacinamide 
* has become popular in relieving bummers; this substance, buffered 
by Niacin or Vitamin B3, chemically changes LSD to another lysergic 
substance that has no effect on the body or mind. 
it seems unlikely that the availability or legal staus of LSD will be 
changed significantly in the next few years. Slowly, as the practical 
uses are realized, there may be a loosening of restrictions regarding 
research with the drug. At best, acid may soon be recognized as a 
legitimate, useful chemical to be given only under careful supervision... 
SPEED KILLS, It’s true. People have been taking speed ever since it 
was developed before World War 11. How many people have you ever 
met who have been taking Speed for as much as 10 years? 6 years? 
A few 3 and 4 year veterans are around, but not in very good shape. 
Even smack addicts have a longer life span. 
Speed kills. The reason most kids don’t notice it is because they have 
young, healthy bodies that can take a lot of stress and strain before 
they finally give in. Speed activates the entire body and forces it to 
race at high rates of speed for long periods of time. The larger the dose, 
the greater the strain. The smaller the dose, the smalier the strain. 
This is why Speed can be legitimately prescribed in minute doses (in 
diet pills, pep pills, etc.), for several months without apparent harm. 
A lot of speed puts a great strain on the entire circulatory system 
and often causes aneurism (ballooning) in the arteries or vessels. 
Appetite is non-existant. Food is a big drag and it is almost impossible 
to eat solids. Sleep is also very difficult, if not impossible, during the 
run. Both lack of appetite and inability to sleep are side effects of speed; 
the body becomes very wasted when no nourishment or chance for 
sleep-rejuvenation takes place. 
The liver and kidneys, which filter impurities from the system, are 
forced to over-work, This creates a situation which like operating a 
complex water pump and filter system without water. It just burns up. 
Because of the massive stimulation of the nervous sytem by 
Amphetamines and because appetite and sleep patterns are disturbed, 
an eventual state of toxic psychosis often occurs. This is usually 
charcterized by hallucinations, tremendous panic or fear reactions, 
with added waves of despondency and depression. During this period 
it is extremely tempting to avoid the hard comedown by shooting up 
again or dropping more speed. By the third or forth day of continuous 
use the chemical starts taking over, everything seems unimportant. 
Speed actually enables years of ageing and deterioration to be 
squeezed into a few weeks or months. 
In addition, Speed freaks often suffer an acute state of paranoia. 
Friends who used to take Speed imagined that people were staring at 
them through windows and whenever they weren't looking. The 
natural uneasiness-nervousness that comes from Speed is intensified by 
fear of getting caught or busted. 
Kids who are on Speed make a big mistake that is common to this and 
other hard drug users. The more Speed they take, the more their heads 
get messed up anyway, and take more speed to alleviate the anxiety 
caused by intense confusion. Of course, the end result is only increased 
confusion, anxiety, and decreased mental capacies. Another proven 
effect of Speed is eventual damage to brain functions; people who 
once had full control of the English language find themselves unable 
to remember proper words, and even have difficulty in speaking. Not 
all hard drugs will do this-----but Speed will. 
412 
Dope 
Learning 
IN CASE OF SPEED OVERDOSE 
Hospitalization is almost never necessary. The person will be very 
wired at first, eventually leveling off after several hours. peeed may 
be very dangerous for those with heart defects. 
Besides long-term dangers of Speed itself, there are several dangers 
associated with using needles for the injection of the drug. The most 
common of these, hepatitis, will be discussed here: 
HEPATITIS 
The common form of hepatitis is ‘‘viral hepatitis” 
needle or contamination of the drug being injected. There is nausea, 
loss of appetite, possible vomiting, and usually a feeling of being ill 
similar to the flu, but ona heavier scale. Following this, jaundice, 
yellowing of the skin and eyes, usually occurs. After a period of weeks 
to months, the patient feels fairly well. But the extensive cost and good 
care involved with such a rehabilitation are usually too much for the 
average speed freak to afford. 
Research that is being done suggests that the average case of hepatitis 
among speed users is of a more chronic type. Weeks and even months 
after recovery from hepatitis, blood tests from the liver show high 
abnormality. It may be that a more chronic disease state is still 
occurring; cirrhosis of the liver has been suggested by one researcher. 
Cirrhosis also occurs in some alcoholics; normal liver tissue dies or is 
choked by other, non-functioning tissue... 
C) 
ALCOHOL 
Classification: Depressant. 
Overdose potential: Possible, when taken in sufficient amounts or 
mixed with Barbiturates. 
Physical addiction: Yes. 
Common methods of consumption: \ngested, liquid form. 
Notes: 
Alcohol] is a depressant; in chemistry and pharmacology, it resembles 
chloral hydrate and paraldehyde. 
The pitfalls are many and varied. !t is among the most dangerous . 
drugs in existence, ranking in the category of Speed, Barbiturates and 
hard narcotics. An estimated 6 to 7 million Americans are chronic 
alcoholics, or one out of 30. 
The American Pharmaceutical Association,-in their pamplet on 
“Drug Abuse Education,” credits alcohol with causing ‘‘acute and 
chronic intoxication, habituation, physical dependence and addiction. 
Withdrawal symptoms (delirium tremens) result when alcohol is 
discontinued.” 
Because of the extent of the alcohol problem in the US and elsewhere, 
a great deal is known about treatment and cure of alcoholics. For 
more information or assistance, contact your local chapter of 
Alcoholics Anonymous. 
Medical Uses: As mentioned earlier, alcohol and hashish were once used 
as an anasthetic during open surgery with reasonable success. Before 
either was widely available, alcohol was sometimes used medicinally. 
(Remember the Old West doctors in the movies?) 
Alcohol is extremely dangerous when taken with most. Barbiturates 
because it heightens action of the pills so much that it can create an 
overdose. 
Magically Aborting Unwelcome Trips 
About acid bummers &c.: 
Assume that human beings are energy devices. Assume that your 
right hand is a positive pole, your left a negative (vice versa if you're 
left-handed). Assume that headaches, bummers & the like are symp- 
toms of minor disturbances in energy flow. (These assumptions are 
not necessarily true. Just a useful metaphor, a convenient way to 
think, that works.) 
To cure a headache, place your positive hand at the base of the suffer- 
er’s skull and your negative hand on his forehead. Imagine there is a 
current flowing through his head from your positive hand to your 
negative hand, and that this current causes the flow in the sufferer’s 
head to straighten out & flow right, thus terminating his headache. 
This takes from 5 to 30 seconds. 
: 
This works, whether the operator believes it will or not, and regardless 
of what the sufferer believes. 
(Beautiful cries of ‘‘My God! 
It's 
GONE!” are commonplace.) The only requirement is the act of 
imagination. 
If you imagine it'll work, it works. 
I’ve used the same process on about 50 acid bummers so far, with 100% 
success. Variations can be invented freely to suit various circumstances. 
This is traditionally called “Magnetic Healing.” 
related phenomena ‘Energy Transactions.” 
other western yogas. 
| ptetoe to call it & 
Very useful in Magick & 
Invent your own techniques. Please tell me what happens. 
Relief is probably symptomatic, but saves on aspirin & similar crap. 
- 
Chester Anderson 
Los Angeles, CA 
, caused by an unclean 
BORER 
a 
~ Inc., Box 3621, Los Angeles, CA 90028. 
Rescue in Chicago 
- by giving honey, sugar water, maple syrup. 4-10 0z. sugar — 
First Aid 
Chemically Aborting Unwelcome Trips 
Te following is excerpted from a pamphlet by Naturalism, 
is doing a phenomenal service by researching dope at the. 
same time they‘re cooling bummers. Nowhere else have | 
seen detailed reviews of the various drugs available in the 
street (“THUNDER. 
Grey and black speckled. 
The Dope 
iy 
is saturated on strychnine pellets. 
/t’s.a bad trip. BLACK — 
DOMES. Double-domed — dynamite — good tabs.) 
: 
- 
a 
—SB 
ABORTIVE MEASURES: 
+e 
Stimulants— Give Ascorbic Acid (vitamin 
C) 3-6 gr; this 
_ 
absorbs Amphetamine in the bloodstream. Also 7 tbls. 
Accent (meat tenderizer) or 5 gr. Glutamic acid to relax 
muscles. Sedatives (Barbituate) and tranquilizers rey be 
used to control excess stimulants... 
> 
ia 
Depresents— (Barbituates, alcohol, Tranquilizers,and 
narcotics). Keep persons awake by physical shaking and/or 
hot & cold showers. Give Caffeine, or coffee, or amphet- 
amine if available. Maintain vital signs, i.e., pulse, blood 
pressure, respiration. Opiates (Heroin) may be absorbed ~ 
with Lorfan (3mg-2mg. |.V. or subcut.) or Nalline. 
Cannabis 
(Marijudna, Hash, T.H.C.) Raise blood sugar oi 
water. This causes hyperglycemia which sedates the 
— 
person. Mild tranquilizers may be used to relax persons = 
in extreme situations. ‘’Accent” is also effective. 
Serotonin type drugs— (LSD, DMT, Psilocybin) Give 
ne 
Niacin (B3) 1 gr./50 Ibs. body weight to stop hallucinations 
within 40 min. Prescription abortants include: Valium 
5-25mg., Vistaril 25-200 mg., Librium 10-100 mg., Seconal 
100-100 mg., Carbrital 3/4-3 gr. Also “Accent” 7 tol. A 
is effective. 
Adrenalin (Belladonna, Seen) Treat wines 
give. fluids to counteract dehydration. Take tempefature | 
often and bring down all fever over 104 degrees with alcoh 
rubs. Watch the person until the drug has worn off. In cai 
of severe crisis (cholinergic) give physostigmine eles 
‘ 
I|.M. or orally 2-4mg. 
: 
; 
as 
Miscellaneous— (Glue) Restore consciousness if necessary. 
This usually occurs when fresh air is supplied to the person. 
Artificial respiration may be necessary. 
If person is 
conscious, have him inhale some alcoho! to break down th 
glue. 
Darvon— Treat symptoms; induce vomiting; 
if person 
; 
z 
convulses and respiration is depressed, give nalorphine and/ 
or levallorphan. DO NOT GIVE AMPHETAMINE OR 
CAFFEINE 
as these will cause convulsions. 
; 
Peace Acid— Treat symptoms. Give 5g Glutamic acid to. 
help person relax. 
ES, 
NOTES: Situations in which a persons life appears to be a 
threatened are handled by a doctor or hospital. Emergency 
wards are much better equipped to maintain vital functio 
i.e., heart, heat, and respiration, and have technical facilit 
more efficient than those found in the home stomach 
pumping and analysis of drug while most drug.problems 
cai 
be handled by empathetic and assuring trained friends or. 
counselors, problems such as toxic drug overdoseage and — 
~ poisoning may require professional medical care. ead 
" 
attention is vital. 
First Aid 
Megavitamin Therapy 
a 
More on niacin and its curing powers on p. 211. ; 
