Drop City 
Peter can write fine. Drop City was the first of current crop 
of weed patch communes. 
The first dome-funk display in 
the U.S. The first nose-tickle of America’s country sneeze. 
How to risk your life repeatedly and keep laughing. 
It’sa 
good story. 
—SB 
Drop City 
Peter Rabbit 
1971; 163 pp. 
DROP CITY 
OUT OF PRINT 
Drop City is a fucked-up mess, Drop City is completely open, com- 
pletely free; | own it, you own it, because we know that all energy 
comes from the same place. Ten domes under the skydome, over- 
shadowed by the Rockies; silverdomes, domes that are paintings, 
multicolored cartopdomes and one black dome. 
Droppers live out of the garbage dump. We know about garbage. The 
people of Trinidad call us Dump City——they know where it’s at. 
They call Droppers when they want garbage picked up. 
It delights 
them to watch us rummaging around in the schmutz; it delights us 
too. An incredible number of people can live off the garbage heap 
of the U.S. Drop City is built on the garbage dump of a dying town 
of ten thousand strung-out coalminers. Think what can be done 
with L.A.——N.Y.——San Francisco——Des Moines——Dallas! 
The 
most beautiful place in Drop City is the dump, the garbage dump of 
the garbage pickers. 
It’s our greatest resource. 
Luke Coo! taught Droppers to design domes, build sotar heaters, 
make dwellings in whicha family can live in comfort and beauty. 
Luke Cool is the king of the junkheap, teaching Droppers and, the 
worid how to USE things. Jump up on top of the car with an axe 
and chop’um out, all around the edges just like a can opener, stomp, 
pop out the back glass, use it for a window, slip off the mirrors, use 
them for a solar cooker, pull out the insulation, use it, USE IT; make 
a honeycomb sandwich out of beer cans and plywood——fantastic 
strength——and USE IT. 
Living on the Earth 
this may well be the best book in this catalog. 
this is a book for people, 
so, 
. 
if you are a person, 
it is for you. 
if you are a dog, 
for instance, 
and you can’t read very well, 
it just might be for you too, 
because of the drawings. 
alicia 
alicia 
alicia. 
she’s our very own bradford angier. 
~jd 
‘Living on the Earth 
Alicia Bay Laurel 
1970; a bunch of pages 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
Random House 
Westminster, Md. 21157 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Funk Living 
Community 
u 
So they had us, A.C.L.U. and all. But Curley and | couldn't resist 
going down to the welfare office for a final confrontation. We sat 
down with the supervisor and laid our heaviest rap on him about 
what welfare rea//y means, That we're a// on welfare, absolutely 
dependent on every other human being, plant, animal, earth, air, 
fire, water for our welfare and we'd fucking well better start looking 
out for. our collective welfare or there isn’t going to be any welfare to 
look out for. 
‘ 
As we put it on him, the supervisor’s face got redder and redder. He 
started chomping and puffing his fat cigar faster and faster, and when 
we got up to leave, he was ina 
blind fit of rage. He began pounding 
his desk with both fists, bouncing and clattering pencils, pens, paper- 
clips and ashtrays with every blow, adn screamed like a little girl 
having a tantrum, “YOU HAVE NO RIGHT TO BE POOR!!!” 
We fell out the door laughing hysterically. 
e 
And B, the moneyman. The hardest gig of all, the moneyman—— 
everyone is always hitting on you. Your face disappears and is 
replaced by a dollar sign. Everyone is determined to help the money- 
man on his road to enlightenment by relieving him of some of his 
material goods. The Droppers were no exception. 
e 
One Christmas Ishmael wrote a play. All of Drop City was to be 
the set, all the Droppers would be the cast. 
It was gonna be good. 
Ishmael tacked a casting list on the bulletin board in the Complex. 
The Droppers were to choose their own parts, and they did. Every- 
_one accepted his role. 
; 
\ 
e 
The hardest time in a commune, particularly Drop City, is the time 
after the building gets done. While everyone is working together 
on actual construction the energy is centered, there is fantastic high 
spirit, everyone knows what he is doing all the time. But after the 
building is done comes a time of dissolution. There’s no focus for 
the group energy, and most hippies don’t have anything to do with 
their individual energy. 
Handling time, learning what to do with total leisure, is one of the 
most important lessons to be learned in a commune. What we do 
with our time is our choice; there’s no compulsion to work or play 
or anything anymore. We have to learn how to really use time—— 
every second——because if we decide to lay around on our asses, it 
isn't long before time gets heavy. Rebuilding a world is a full-time 
job, a continuous job. We've got to learn to be conscious of the 
Great Work all the time. 
: 
In a way the time of dissolution was good; a period of service. 
But instead of going higher; we were on the merry-go-round. Curley 
and Drop Lady teft, Clard and Suzie left, John McHale said, “Who 
Pays For The Rain,” and | suddenly realized what Curley had been 
trying to tell me all along: 
It’s all free, it all flows from the 
Cosmic Forces, all energy comes from the same place and it’s free 
——but I'd learned it too late. Instead of a community of people 
dedicated to getting it together on the highest possible level, Drop 
City became a decompression chamber for city freaks. 
2 
ealate
mciain
kane 
mee 
rat. 
de 
Se 
catio
ne, 
Ue 
ay 
of, 
Nabeaoi
i 
Mihep 
as 
Hea 
tyhlil
e
omen 
ee
