Quaker City Hand Grain Grinder 
We've switched our loyalty from Bell Grinders (good meal, 
but no flour) to Corona Mill (flour on two grindings) now 
to Quaker City. The new champ, better bits, finer adjustment. 
. 
—SB 
$1 1.95 plus postage 
from: 
Nelson & Sons, Inc. 
P.O. Box 1296 
Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 
or $15.00 postpaid 
from WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
For more on milk, 
see Epilog, page 681 
Atlas Juicer 
_| want to inform you and hopefully through you, your 
readers of a top quality tool for sustenance and nourishment. 
/ enclose descriptive material on both models manufactured 
by Juice Master who is a little-heard-of firm that produces 
top quality farm equipment. 
Either the Atlas Juicer or the Atlas Princess are far superior 
to any of the juicers now on the market such as Braun. 
The 
Atlas costs more but the value is therein terms of materials 
used (no plastic) and the construction (a 10 year guarantee 
on the Princess and a lifetime guarantee on the Atlas Juicer). 
We now have used a Princess model for one year and find 
ourselves appreciating fruits and vegetables in a new and 
exciting way. Our diet has been improved manyfold and 
we now savor drinks ranging from carrot and cabbage juice 
to grape and apples juice. 
For people living together it will be a useful piece of equip- 
ment. 
Note, that although the retail price is high, it is extremely 
fair given the quality of the item. In addition you can buy 
either model at a discount if Juice Master does not have a 
sales representative in your area. Further reductions in 
price are available if you qualify to become a dealer— 
~ 
by simply ordering three units. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
B. L. Faber] 
Atlas Juicer 
$149.50 
from: 
Juice Master Mfg. Co. 
407 Franklin Street 
East Peoria, III. 61602 
Tutti-Frutti Steam Juicer 
One nice advantage of steam-juicing fruit and vegetables is 
that the residue is still palatable. So’s the juice. 
—SB 
Tutti-Frutti Steam Juicer _ 
PEN 
ft! 
Aluminum $35.00 postpaid 
mn 
an 
Stainless Steel $65.00 postpaid 
from: 
Mrs. Rex Ashdown 
769 West 3650 North Street 
Ogden, UT 84404 
Lee Electric Flour Mills 
The best bread is made from wheat ground just before 
baking. 
This is a small electric grain grinder manufactured by an 
old dependable company. A unique feature of this machine 
is that it grinds the entire grain kernel, including the germ 
and bran, into fine flour. (Other mills generally discard the 
germ). You fill the hopper and an automatic feed admits 
the proper amount of grain into the stone grinding chamber. 
The carborundum grinding stone never needs redressing, 
the mill does not get warm enough to impair the nutritional 
‘value of the flour, and fresh stone ground flour... pass 
the bread! 
[Suggested and Reviewed by Lloyd Kahn] 
Meadows 8” Household Stone Burr Mill 
Catalog 
free 
from: 
Lee Engineering Co. 
2023 West Wisconsin Avenue 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53201 
OUTPUT PER HOUR 
Model 
Motor Size 
(1971 Prices) 
Fine Flour 
Coarse Meal 
500 
1/6 hp 
3 to 5 Ibs 
not adjustable 
$95.00 
600 
1/6 hp 
3 to 5 Ibs 
20 to 25 Ibs 
$125.00 
S$-500 
1/4 hp 
6 to 10 Ibs. 
not adjustable 
$145.00 
$-600 
1/4 hp 
6 to 10 Ibs 
40 to 45 Ibs 
$170.00 
Operating Voltage 
115 AD-DC 
Current Draw 
3.0 amperes 
Overall Height 
20 inches 
Shipping weight 
20 pounds 
Considering the cost of an electric mill such as the one sold 
in the store this item is high. However the Lee mill will grind 
only a small amount of flour and is slow for use in a communi- 
ty mill such as this mill would be ideal for. It will grind a 
hundred pounds of fine flour an hour. Such a community 
mill or a small co-op could supply a community with organic 
whole wheat flour for 6 to 8 cents a pound, depending on 
their source of wheat berries. Deaf Smith County wheat 
berries are 6 cents a Ib. FOB Hereford, Texas. Freight on 
wheat is funny. The best | can figure out is that it would 
cost about $1.00 per 100 to ship it from Hereford to SF; 
if and only if you buy one complete truck load as only 
wheat can be in the truck if the truck contains wheat. 
Trucking companies say wheat is “exempt” and when 
you deal with wheat you are dealing indirectly with the 
Govt. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Jerry Walker] 
$355.00 
Meadows Mill Co. 
North Wilkesboro 
North Carolina 28659 
Big Bell Grinder 
You might be interested in the C.S. Bell mill model 2 (2MC). In your 
very first issue you showed the small Bell mill and then later replaced 
it with the Corona grain mill. The Corona is far superior to the 
small Bell mill but the big Bell (No. 2) is far superior to the Corona. 
And far more expensive: about $30.00 as opposed to $13.00. But 
well worth the money. On the East Coast it is distributed by the 
Erewhon Trading Company. 
And an excellent book is The Soil and Health published by Devin- 
Adair. This is a classic work in the field of organic farming by Sir Albert 
Howard. Howard also wrote An Agricultural Testament and was the 
major influence on J.I. Rodale among others. Along with Plowman’s 
Folly and Farmers of Forty Centuries (and the long out of print 
Topsoil and Civilization) one of the indispensible written works in the 
field. 
Jimmy Silver 
Boston, Mass. 
(See p. 46) 
German Steam Juicer 
I have something you might be interested in—I had been looking for 
it myself, ever since we survived on it after WWII in Germany. It is 
most ingenious. 
We used it on an iron stove—in the clipping it 
gives two prices—one for gas, one for electric—but I am sure it 
can be used on a woodburning or whatever other stove as well. 
We even sliced or chopped sugar beets and used this juice maker 
to draw out the juices completely, then we simmered these to 
make a great sirup, without all the extra water to boil out, as you 
would if you cooked the beets the conventional method. 
This 
juicer is so simple: in the upper part goes anything you want to 
juice—it just simmers away, and out of the siphon tube comes the 
clear natural juice as it ts, no sugar. 
It can be canned right into 
glasses or bottles. Rhubarb is delicious, even to people who usually 
‘don’t like Rhubarb. 
I noticed a California Concern imports (manufactures?) these, so I 
am not trying to translate the German but if you want you can 
send for the english brochure and directions from them. 
Hoping you can use this—I am sure using mine. 
Inge Chase 
Red Oak, Iowa 
See Epitog, page 593 
“Champion Juicer” 
Fassungsvermégen : 10 
Quart 
(11,36 
Liter 
Friichte). 
Sofortige Lieferuneg. 
Fiir nur $24.95 fiir Gas Herd. Nur $28.95 
fiir Electro 
Herd mit schwerem Boden einsechl. Porto und Versich. 
ROBERT'S MERCHANDISE CO. 
Defunct? 
DOYLE’S STORY 
"| think the thing that finally got me serious about it, David, 
was my brother Clarence getting killed in a rock fall, down home, 
back in the spring. | don’t know if you ever knew Clarence or 
note... 
“| remember him,” said D.R. "He used to work at Blue 
Diamond.” 
"That's him” Doyle went on. ‘Older than me, and not so 
long, as he used to say it. Of course it’s been a while since he 
worked at Blue Diamond. They shut down over there right after 
we all moved up here, | remember that because Clarence come up 
here to live a while, but he never liked it enough to stay, and for 
the last nine, ten year he’s been in and out of them little old dog- 
hole mines, mostly over on Second Creek, and for a while there on 
Trace Fork till they stripped it. He was working for the Combs 
brothers over on Second Creek last March when a piece of rock 
fell on him. The whole roof caved in and crushed him, just like 
that. He never drawed another breath after that rock caught him. 
“| didn’t know that, Doyle,” D.R. said solemnly. ‘I'm sorry 
to hear it.” 
“Well, it was a sad time, | tell you it was,” said Doyle. 
"'It 
like to broke poor Mommy’s heart. She was his favorite, you 
know. He was her first, and he lived there next door to her, and 
doted on her, and took care of her, him and Carlene. 
It was just 
the worst thing that could have happened in Mommy's life, and 
there it was, him dead just all of a sudden, and there wasn’t a 
thing on earth anybody could do about it except bury him.” 
"Clarence’s funeral was the saddest time,” said Marcella. 
"Awful sad,” said Doyle. “Just awful sad. We went home for 
it of course. You remember the church there at the mouth of the 
creek, 1 guess. | doubt they’s over twenty members of that church 
left around there, so many‘s moved away. But for Clarence’s 
funeral it was full, people come from far away as Hyden, and 
Hazard. They was one of his old army buddies from Pike County 
heard about it and come. Brother Fugate preached, and there was 
singing, and old Mr. Stacy got up and preached:some too. What 
was bad about it though, as far as Mommy was concerned, was 
Clarence never had been saved. And so naturally there was a lot 
of talk about the rest of us. Mommy cried and cried, and pleaded 
with me, and my brother Lee. She cried all weekend and pleaded 
with us to join the church. 
I don’t know if you remember Lee 
or not, David...” 
"| remember him,” said D.R. “| remember all these people. 
Brother Fugate baptized me and Marcella right there in Trace Fork, 
| sure remember him.” 
“Well,” Doyle went on. ‘You can imagine how it was then. 
To please Mommy, and ease her all | could, me and Lee promised 
her we’d think about it. | don’t know what Lee’s done, | ain’t 
heard from him since the funeral, but | got back up here and that 
whole business was all | could think about. But the funny thing 
is, although | wouldn’t want Mommy to know this, it really wasn’t 
anything that she said tiiat made me change my mind.” 
Doyle paused then to eat some more, and take a drink of milk. 
(continued) 
= 
Grinders & Juicers 
Community 
