students because they are such total earnest beginners, and 
“that i 
is an advantage in the Zen business. Roshi is a remark- 
— 
unheard of. When the Americans came in the people in 
is town wanted to quickly tear down a war memorial 
"Statue they had; Roshi said don’t do it, the Americans 
_ won't mind (they probably didn’t even notice). Americans 
_ did notice during construction of the Tassajarra Zen Center 
when the students found that their tiny Roshi could move 
_ with obstacles to understanding. 
This book jis a nicely 
_ edited transcription of words Suzuki Roshi spoke to a 
| beginning Zen group in a Los Altos garage. 
SB 
inner s Mind 
rudy Dixon, ed.) 
Zen Mind, B 
Suzuki Roshi, ( 
1970; 134 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
; 
John Weatherhill, Inc. 
720 5th Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
L But perfect freedom is not found without some rules. People, 
especially young people, think that freedcm is to do just what they 
want, that in Zen there is no need for rules. But it is absolutely 
necessary for us to have some rules. But this does not mean always 
i to be under control: As long.as you have rules, you have a chance 
for freedom. To try to obtain freedom without being aware of the 
_ rules means nothing. 
It is to acquire this perfect freedom that we 
Practice zazen. 
 Galton’s Walk 
| _ Associations, the mind’s incessant ticking. You might get 
| free of associations by investigating them, as this book 
| relentlessly does. 
| A ‘recall a jazz musician who kept seeing a little black dog 
walk by in front of him. “There he goes again,” he would 
|| say. /t never occurred to anybody that he was onto 
something. 
| 
—SB 
Galton’s Walk celebrates the Galton who invented the method of 
_ 
- free association, and who first used-it as he “walked leisurely along 
_ Pall Mall, a distance of 450 yards,’ taking careful note of all the 
thoughts associated with each object he saw. From that beginning 
Galton moved next to word associations, and concluded his 
| 
observations with the remark that ‘‘our working stock of ideas is 
|| narrowly limited,” 
and that “the mind continually recurs to them 
|| 
in conducting its operations.” 
The important word here is “recurs,” for it was this idea that fired 
Herbert Crovitz’s imagination. A basic, tractable fact of psychology, 
he points out, is the fact that everything recurs. 
It is well that it is 
so, for a world in which every experience was novel could hardly 
support intelligent life. From such basic facts, so obvious that they 
| are easily overlooked, a scientist begins. 
© 
lE William James took the discussion of genius out of the shadows and 
- into the laughter of sunshine. In part, he wrote, it is richness of 
| association and in part it is ignoring “old hat.” James, in one of his 
- strokes of genius, brings confusion to the front. After all, he notes, 
confusion is mistaking the wrong part of something for the ‘thing, 
_ while reasoning is taking the right part of something for the thing. 
_ Therefore, both confusion and reasoning agli of the same 
ie: 
_ essence. 
: 
4 
e 
Not Even God Is Ripe Enough 
Very far out African fables. Here’s just the titles. 
—SB 
[Who sent this to us?] 
Not Even God Is pie Enough 
Bakare Gbadamosi, Ulli 
Beier 
1968; 58 pp. 
$1.75 postpaid 
from: 
Humanities Press Inc. 
450 Park Avenue South 
New York, NY 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
: 
. 
page 
Kindness won’t kill you, but it can give 
you a lot of worries 
1 
The mouth that commits an offence must 
a 
talk itself out of punishment 
5 
“He who shits on the road will meet flies 
on his return 
8 
When life is good for us, we cerns bad 
11 
You can fool others, but can you fool 
4 yourself? 
14 
_ Awise man solves his own problems 
16 
4 e who has patience has everything 
21 
Not even god is ripe enough to catch a 
woman in love 
: 
24 
The unexpected amen 
28 
able person. During World War I/ in Japan he was a pacifist 
as po werfully and gracefully with huge boulders as he could 
Zen Mind, 
Beginner’s Mind 
Informal 
talks on 
Zen medi- 
tation and 
practice 
by 
SHUNRYU 
SUZUKL 
Zen mind is one of those enigmatic phrases used by Zen teachers to 
make you notice yourself, to go beyond the words and wonder what 
your own mind and being are. 
This is the purpose of all Zen teaching 
— to make you wonder and to answer that wondering with the 
deepest expression of your own nature. 
The calligraphy on the 
front of the binding reads nyorai in Japanese or tathagata in 
Sanskrit. 
This is 
aname for Buddha which means “‘he who has 
followed the path, who has returned from suchness, or is suchness, 
thusness, is-ness, emptiness, the fully completed one.” It is the 
ground principle which makes the appearance of a Buddha possible. 
Itis Zen mind. At the time Suzuki-roshi wrote this calligraphy — 
using for a brush the frayed end of one of the large swordlike leaves 
of the yucca plants that grow in the mountains around Zen 
Mountain Center — he said: “This means that Tathagata is the 
_ body of the whole earth.” 
—Richard Baker 
Galton’s Walk 
Herbert Crovitz 
1970; 159 pp. 
$3.50 vostpaid 
from: 
Harper & Row Publishers, Inc. 
49 East 33rd Street 
New York, New York 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
In class one day, some undergraduates were told to tell a story, and 
observe the destruction of thought. One began, ‘’There were three 
men on their way to Chatham... (pause) ..." During the pause, 
the teacher said “‘Chatham,’’ and the student boggled. He froze in 
amazed silence, having forgotten what he was going to say. Another 
student said, ““! went downtown to the station and sat down at the 
lunch counter... (pause) ...’’ During this pause, the teacher said, 
“l went,” which also erased whatever was to follow — not just the 
speech, but the intention. 
We are now well acquainted with the idea that consciousness has 
the features of a plenum; that it may be entirely full of its contents, 
whatever they are: 
and, therefore, that all movement in conscious- 
ness may be cyclic. On this basis the recurrence of thoughts and 
actions is just what we might expect. We are now acquainted with 
the idea that there is something called creative thinking and problem- 
solving about which nothing is so clear as that it is a chancy passive 
Pursuit, 
Finally, we are acquainted with some thrashings of the awakening 
beast, some rousing from the long sleep of thought, some attempts 
to jab it, poke it, mechanize it, shatter it, reform it, and shake it 
awake — so that we might find a way to do the same things we do 
Passively, as in dreaming, while we are awake and with all our wits 
about us. 
We have seen that memory is aided by an externalized similacrum 
of the hidden plenum, and that a little intellectual progress can be 
made in taking words and separating them into a pile called content 
and a pile called form: 
Every trickster will be fooled once 
30 
A young man can have fine cloth like an 
elder, but he can never have rags like 
an elder 
33 
Half a truth is no truth 
35 
The pot that boils over only dirties itself 
38 
When the man who knows no disasters 
hears weeping — he thinks it is song 
42 
Many words do not fill a basket 
44 
Every day is for the crook — but one day 
is for the deceived 
46 
ii 
Hatred is like rain in a desert — it is of 
no use to anybody 
48 
What an old man can see sitting down — a’ 
young man can’t see standing up 
51 
A man’s luck cannot be driven away — 
only delayed 
54 
Large eyes produce many tears 
56 
According to Christianity, every existence in nature is something 
which was created for or given to us by God. That is the perfect 
idea of giving. But if you think ‘that God created man, and that you 
are somehow separate from God, you are liable to think you have 
the ability to create something separate, something not given by 
Him. For instance, we create airplanes and highways. And when 
we repeat, “’! create, | create, | create,’’ soon we forget who is 
actually the “’\’ which creates the various things; we soon forget 
about God. This is the danger of human culture. Actually, to 
create with the “big I" is to give; we cannot create and own what 
we create for ourselves since everything was created by God. This 
point should not be forgotten. But because we do forget who is 
doing the creating and the reason for the creation, we become 
attached to the material or exchange value. This has no value in 
comparison to the absolute value of something as God’s creation. 
Even though something has no material or relative value to any 
“small 1,’" it has absolute value in itself. Not to be attached to 
something is to be aware of its absolute value. Everything you do 
should be based on such an awareness, and not on material or self- 
centered ideas of value. Then whatever you do is true giving, is 
“dana prajna paramita.” 
e 
| discovered that it is necessary, absolutely necessary, to believe in 
nothing. That is, we have to believe in something which has no 
form and no color — something which exists before all forms and 
colors appear. This is a very important point. No matter what god 
or doctrine you believe in, if you become attached to it, your belief 
will be based more or less on a self-centered idea. You Strive fora 
perfect faith in order to save yourself. But it will take time to 
attain such a perfect faith. You will be involved in an idealistic 
practice. 
In constantly seeking to actualize your ideal, you will 
have no time for composure. 
But if you are always prepared for 
accepting everything we see as' something appearing from nothing, 
knowing that there is some reason why a phenomenal existence of 
such and such form and color appears, then at that moment you 
will have perfect composure. 
5s 
Egypt 
For those who want to learn ancient Egyptian: 
The standard work is Sir Alan Gardiner’s Egyptian Grammar, 3rd 
edn, 1957, Oxford($ 12,50). It is the best grammar for beginners in 
any language and also the most authoritative reference grammar of 
Middle Egyptian. A magnificent piece of typesetting, it uses a 
special hieroglyphic font and a complete sign list and vocabulary. 
4to, 646 pp + xxxvt 
For the latest scholarly additions see H. J. Polotsky’s “Egyptian 
Tenses”’ 
Jerusalem, 1965. 26 pp, 509. 
The best and only dictionary in English is R. O. Faulkner’s A 
Concise Dictionary of Middle Egyptian, Oxford, 1962. 327 pp 8 vo 
$420. 
For the history and culture of ancient Egypt: 
John A. Wilson: The Culture of Ancient Egypt,.Chicago, 1951. 
U of Chicago Press Phoenix Boox (paperback) $2.45 
best & 
most enlightened 
Sir Alan Gardiner: 
Egypt of the Pharaohs, Oxford, 1961, paperback 
$2.95 
d 
Adolf Erman: The Ancient Egyptians, a Sourcebook of their 
Writings, Harper Torchbacks, $2.75 
James B. Pritchard, ed.: Ancient Near Eastern Texts, Princeton. 
2nd ed. $30 ea,; $50 set. 
W. C. Hayes: The Scepter of Egypt, Harvard, 1959. 2 vols. $30 
Prices quoted for books from England are those of Blackwell’s, 
Oxford, England. They can be ordered there cheapest. 
Enthusiasts should write for the catalogs from Blackwell’s and also 
from Otto Harrassowitz, 6200 Wiesbaden, Postfach 349, Germany. 
Note: I have listed only those works published in English. For 
works in other languages you can use the bibliographies in the above 
books as well as the book dealers catalogs. 
Kenneth Konrad 
Chicago, Illinois 
VW 
Koes 
Se 
ae 
Dear Flash, 
Here’s what's going on: 
Saturday | helped Leonard build a new pen for his hogs. 
Sunday | crawled back in an old coal mine and watched a candle 
burn. Then | sat a long time in the dark, just being quiet. 
Yesterday | spread rabbit shit on some old dead ground, and 
today spaded it in and sprinkled two gallons of red worms on it. 
| also ripped a lot of boards off this old house I’m living in, and 
cleaned them up to use building myself a pad in a corner of the 
barn. 
This house I’m living in is dead. 
There are people living who have memories of it, and things that 
happened here. 
| remember things, and my sister, and there are a 
few others scattered around with old home movies in their brains 
they filmed in years gone by. 
But the house itself is dead, and within the year it will be buried 
by about a million tons of mud and crap piled up behind it. 
The barn is where the life is now. The garden is behind it. The 
worms live inside it in a pit. There’s a chicken lot on one side, and 
on two sides all the rabbits in their hutches that | told you about. 
They’re in those hutches right this minute, Flash, wondering when 
I’m.going to come and live there as their neighbor. 
This afternoon | stuck my head in one of the hutches and 
breathed a while with the old momma and her litter. She’s brown 
and white and solemn. The babies are about three weeks old, just 
starting to hop in and out of the nest box on their own, and sniff 
their mother’s solid food. They’re getting curious about the larger 
world. The old momma already knows. She’s wise and proud and 
I think satisfied. We looked deeply into one another's eyes a time 
or two. I’m her bringer of food. That's my whole function in the 
world as far as she’s concerned. As a matter of fact, it’s my function 
in the world as far as I'm concerned too, except that what | know 
that she doesn't is that there’s this whole larger scheme going on. 
What | know that she doesn’t is that her produce — the manure; 
those thousands of little pellets that gather beneath her hutch — is 
food too, in this amazing scheme that my uncle started before he 
died, and that I’m now in the process of expanding. 
(continued) 
EEE 
cal 
Excursions 
Learning 
