a 
_—— 
ee 
Welding Craft Practice 
/f you have access to either a gas or an electric unit then 
all you need is the correlated volumne of Welding Craft 
Practice and alot of patience (whilst your hands learn what 
your ole brain says they should be doing) to begin trans- 
mutting the base metals. These books give a complete 
description of the equipment used in oxy- and arc welding 
plus a detailed accounting of the methodology from lighting 
the blowpipe to testing the strength of the finished weld. 
The potentially dangerous situations in storing transporting 
and welding with gas under pressure, and the precautions 
necessary for using electric arc are outlined in clear 
‘competent british prose. If youre going to learn welding on 
your own read the safety sections of the book first and 
return to them so that your safety consciousness is well 
programed before picking up the stri ker. 
[Reviewed by Doug Gunesch] 
Welding Craft Practice 
Part 1, Volume 1 
Oxy-acetylene Gas Welding 
and Related Studies 
N. Parkin and C.R. Flood 
Welding Craft Practice 
Part 1, Volume 2 
Electric Ate Welding and 
. Related Studies 
N. Parking and C.R. Flood 
1969; 182pp. 
1969; 159pp. 
$3.00 Postpaid 
$3.00 postpaid 
from: 
from: 
Pergammon Press Inc. 
Maxwell House 
Fairview Park 
Elmsford, New York 10523 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Pergammon Press Inc. 
Maxwell House 
Fairview Park 
Elmsford, New York 10523 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Solidox Welding Torch 
A medium lightweight welding torch that uses pellets for 
oxygen. 
Very portable, nice to have as your bus torch. 
Solidox torch now available in hardware stores, home- 
improvement centers and do-it-yourself stores across the 
country. 5000° hot. 
oe 
Solidox Welding Torch 
$39.95 postpaid 
Cleanweld Products 
4000 Medford Street: 
Los Angeles, California 90063 
The Art of Blacksmithing 
A warm book that makes me want to learn blacksmithing. 
Bealer presents the history and methods of smithing in a 
fashion very useful to a person learning the trade. An 
excellent coverage of tools, most to be made by the smith 
himself. Bealer collected this material from many old 
smiths and then tried it himself in his own forge. 
[Reviewed by Fred Richardson] 
The Art of Blacksmithing 
Alex W. Bealer 
1969; 425 pp. 
$1 0.00 
postpaid 
from: 
Funk & Wagnalls 
53 West 77th St. 
New York, N.Y. 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
1 
Welding & Winching 
Industry 
i 
LIGHTING UP BLOWPIPE 
Turn on both gas supplies and set correct pressures as before. 
Slowly open acetylene control on blowpipe until it is purged 
of air and acetylene is issuing freely (note and remember the 
pungentsmell of the gas), and light at the tip of the nozzle using 
a spark lighter. The resultant diffused, luminous, but sooty 
flame is pure acetylene burning in air. Turn up the fuel gas 
supply until the smoke vanishes from the tail of the flame and 
the nozzle is now working at its normal capacity with a suitable 
gas velocity. The flame now, although cleaner, is still of a 
relatively low temperature. Open the blowpipe oxygen-control 
valve slowly and note the changé in the character of the flame 
as the oxygen is introduced. The body of the flame turns blue 
with the formation of a hazy white zone which decreases in 
size with the development of a small greenish-white cone at the 
end of the nozzle. Continue increasing the supply of oxygen 
until the white ‘‘feather’’ of excess acetylene just disappears, 
leaving a clearly defined inner cone. This is a correctly adjusted 
neutral flame consuming equal quantities of acetylene and 
oxygen from the welding gas supplies and a further amount 
of oxygen from the atmosphere. 
© 
Pointed bluish cone 
SU 
race ai ease cL tee 
| ae 
x 
Sey 
hie 
mee 
pee 
See eS SOR Sipe enn eae 
Oxidising 
Greenish-white cone 
Neutral 
Feather of excess acetylene 
ee 
- 
—s . 
Carburising 
Fic. 1.18. Types of flame. 
Wright Winch 
In March 1970 $1 Cat. (p. 16) Jimmie Silverthorne Suggested a 
cable winch for getting unstuck. ABSOLUTLY!!! and I reccomend 
the “Wright Type ‘R’ Pull-a-way, Model 2 B” at about $35. Over 
seven years, mine has loaded nearly all the timbers to frame a two- 
storey house with oak, hauled both my VW Van.and %2-ton pick-up 
from ditches, bogs, brooks, muddy fields, snow-banks and the 
ocean, (all would have been call-a-tow-truck jobs without it), 
removed and installed numerous VW and detroit engines, loaded and 
unloaded heavy shop machinery, and done many dozens of other 
useful things for me. Its beginning to show alittle wear now, but 
not too much. 
: 
Its cast Aluminum and so light enough to pack into the woods, as 
well as rust-proof. 
Works covered w/ snow without binding up, 
and all moving parts can be worked w/ mittens on so you dont get 
frozen to it when, say. ..you want to release it. One minor short- 
coming: The release-pawl spring wears out at about one every two 
years. Order two or three spares of Part No. RO43, Spring, at about 
35¢ ea. at the same time you order the winch. 
Its made by WRIGHT HOIST DIVISION, American Chain & Cable 
Co, Offices in York, Pa. Also Atlanta, Chicago, Denver, Detroit, 
Los Angeles, N.Y., Phila, Pittsburgh, S. Francisco, 
& Bridgeport, 
Conn. 
Far superior to all other makes I’ve used, which is about five. 
Michael Spencer 
Italy Cross, Nova Scotia 
Smith Welding Equipment 
Professional welding equipment. 
Tescom Corporation 
2600 Niagara Lane N. 
Minneapolis, MN 55441 
[Suggested by Jerome Skuba] 
See Epilog, page $48 
Welding: [1] where to place blows for a lap weld, [2] 
how to hold iron on anvil before the first blow. 
: 
tie 
iol ait Bad 
St 
a 
ea) ae 
Se ee 
yak Te 
~ 
bar is more suitable than plate because it is much easier to cut, 
~ twist to try and free it as this will only result in the piece of 
| 
I’d like to tell you about a thing 
I 
just got. It’s called a Yankee 
“The Modern Blacksmith” 
STRIKING THE ARC 
} 
Select a 10-gauge electrode for your first practice at striking the 
arc. Set the current regulator to 117 amperes. For material 
- 
use 3x3/8" mild steel flat bar approximately 7 in. long (flat 
either with shears or power saw). Next, direct the tip 
of the electrode towards the practice plate. Do this a number of 
times with the current switched off. When the electrode touches 
the material, quickly. draw away to about 1/8” from the surface. 
Do not worry about the correct angle of electrode at this stage. 
When ‘this exercise has been practised a number of times and one 
has the “feel’’ of the electrode, switch the current on and practice 
striking the arc. Remember to keep the welding screen in front 
of your eyes and, when the electrode touches the plate, very 
slightly scratch the surface. When the arc burns quickly draw 
away to approximately 1/8’. The arc will still continue to burn 
if the electrode is 1 in. or more away from the surface of the 
plate but the arc must be kept:short in order to control the 
deposition of the weld metal. 
, 
Should the electrode ‘‘stick’’ to the plate, do not snatch and 
flat bar being lifted from the bench still attached to the end of the 
electrode. The correct procedure is as follows: keeping the screen 
in front of the face, switch off the welding set at the switch 
fuse, which should be located on the wall of the welding bay. Then 
give the electrode holder a sharp twist, which will free the 
electrode from the plate. The electrode and the plate may be hot, 
so exercise caution if attemptirig to touch either of them. Before 
continuing after the electrode has been freed, inspect it to ensure 
that the coating at the tip is not damaged, as in most cases the 
coating will be broken. The-arc is very difficult to strike with a’ 
bare wire and a fresh electrode should be taken if damage has ~ 
occurred. 
‘ 
by er BOs 
e 
_- Electrode 
Base metal 
Fic. II.9. Electrode angle arc length. 
Yankee Winch 
Z 
Well, 
I’m finally writing a letter to an institution (that is to say something 
that is not a friend or one of the relatives at Christmas.) 
Winch. It is manufactured by Yankee Mechanics Inc. in Newport, 
N.H. They cost for the large one $150. It is a hand operated winch 
that is rated a 1-1/2 tons. The tests on it done by some laboratory 
in N.Y. showed the winch could lift 8,500 lbs without damage to 
the unit. A lot of other really impressive stuff. 
Winch comes with 60 ft of cable. 
I don’t know how the company is as to catalogs or service because 
the owner of the company is a friend of the family. His name is 
Bill Ruger, is the owner also of Sturm Ruger & Co. Inc, a firearms 
manufacturer. Anyone who knows about these guns know that 
— 
they are built with quality. 
I'm a C.O. so not too big on them still the man believes in quality 
in his products so I’m sure that the company is as top notch as his 
winch. 
‘ 
: 
Hope I’ve helped you fuckin long hairs. 
— 
Lip McCann 
Putney, Vermont 
Generally, | have tried to describe and illustrate only the fundamental 
techniques of the trade, and show how these techniques were used 
on a few familiar items. | hope that others may find my material 
interesting enough to acquire the tools of the smith and actually 
practice his techniques to the point that some of the ancient 
techniques and tools will be rediscovered for the benefit of modern 
man. If the ancient aurochs can be reconstituted through 
selective breeding of modern domestic cattle, it seems possible 
| 
that the ancient smith may be waiting within a few modern men. 
