ee 
en 
Fae 
ee 
ee 
ee 
ee, 
Plastics for Architects and Builders 
Whereas architects and builders are comfortably familiar 
with the “classic” building materials that come more or 
less directly from nature, plastics, with so many compli- 
cated names and such comp/ex manufacturing processes, 
have not been as readily understood. 
Most books on plastics are by and for specialists. Here, 
however, is a primer on plastics, clear and orderly, that 
gives the builder, designer, or architect enough basic know- 
ledge to begin thinking of design with the new sophisticated 
materials. 
/t begins with a simple description of the molecular structure 
of plastics——one of the principal keys to their behavior. 
Once the designer understands this, he is ready to begin 
exploring the array of materials available. 
Then there is basic information, pictures, many drawings on 
the properties, end-use applications, composites, and manu- 
facturing processes. 
The designer can then begin to under- 
stand what plastics can & cannot do. 
whl 
—Lloyd Kahn 
= 
Plastics for Architects and Builders 
Albert G. H. Dietz 
1969; 129 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid 
from: 
The M. |. T. Press 
50 Ames Street, Room 765 
Cambridge, Mass. 02142 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
There is no escaping the conciusion that design with plastics 
is design at a sophisticated level. 
Light Transmission: 
Thin structural plastics can transmit a high 
percentage of incident light, thus providing structure, enclosure, 
and illumination——a combination unique among structural 
materials. 
Hand layup. 
Sprayup 
C Clear plastic. rod. 
De Mee 
LS a 
NAS 
hinge 
Cellulosics: 
One class of chain polymers is made by modifying 
cellulose, a natural high-polymer chain: 
ss 
Go 
= 3. 
& \ 
/ 
z-= 
or tie 
3 
a8 
s 
9 
Rey 
22 
Various acids will react at the OH points of the cellulose to give a 
series of ‘‘esters’’ (the organic analogue of salts in inorganic chem- 
istry). The oldest is cellulose nitrate, often thought of as originating 
the plastics industry when first proposed for billiard balls to save the 
African elephants from decimation for their ivory. 
Stabilizers: 
Plain plastics, such as polyethylene pipe or polyvinyl 
chloride sheet, may degrade when exposed to some environments such 
as sunlight. They must therefore be fortified by stabilizers, such as 
ultraviolet absorbers and antioxidants. Carbon black, for example, 
converts polyethylene from a quickly degrading material 
to one that 
stands up extremely well to sunlight and general weathering. Other 
stabilizers accomplish their purpose without necessarily coloring or 
making the plastic opaque. Care should be exercised to select a proper 
stabilized plastic for a particular purpose unless it is inherently stable. 
The subject is far too complex to be treated here. The architect 
should insist upon assurance that the plastic witl have the necessary 
life for his application. 
~~ 
ly 
See Epilog, page 543 
Variable, moderate 
preseu 
ey Pers 
clearance t alla movement 
tight tt will caus. cracks 
Ang 
; 
Z iE 
(0 tersin) 
or Luce 
D 
Wy Shap wre : 
“compression 
BA 
| Aadons. tiligue 
; 
Thermal Response 
: 
: 
Expansion and Contraction: 
Like all building materials, plastics 
expand and contract with rising and falling temperatures, but for 
many plastics the extent of change is appreciably larger than for 
‘ 
many other building materials. Allowances in design must therefore 
— 
be made for these dimensional changes, either by accommodating 
them in the shape of the component or by providing expansion 
joints. A curved section, for example, may bulge or flatten slightly 
without affecting its usefulness. 
Framing around glazing should 
allow room for expansion and contraction, and the sealants 
employed should accommodate such motion. 
Design: Expansion and contraction can lead to severe stresses at 
sharp bends or at points of restraint, such as tight bolts and pins. 
Repeated stresses caused by temperature changes can lead to fatigue, 
cracking, and failure. Generous radii and fillets should therefore be 
provided, and holes for fastenings should be large enough to allow 
. 
for movement with changing temperatures. 
Restrained flat surfaces 
‘may wrinkle upon expanding and in extreme cases may crack or 
E 
tear upon contracting. Curved or folded surfaces, properly designed, 
overcome these problems. 
: 
¢ 
a 
a)
Plastics in Building 
q 
_ With all the sealants, plastic pipes, foams and the like coming 
into prominence in the building industry, it’s handy to have a 
book like this, which describes the properties and character- 
istics of the many plastic materials now in use. 
There is introductory information on reinforced plastic shell 
structures, adhesives, roofs, coatings, and reports on the use 
of plastics in otner countries. 
—Lloyd Kahn 
Both the plastics chemist and the architect are designers of structures. 
The architect builds with units that the eye can see and the hand can 
weigh. The chemist’s building blocks are tiny molecules, far smaller 
than one-millionth of an inch, which he strings together to make 
aggregates called polymers. These little chains, barely discernible 
by electron microsocpe, are entwined and sometimes tied together 
to give us the plastics. 
e 
! 
Sprayup (Figure 5-11) 
The sprayup process lends itself particularly well to the manutacture 
of large structural polyester based panels. 
In this process, 
chopped fibers and resin are deposited simultaneously against a 
mold surface. The unit used for this deposition consists of a 
chopper and dual spray nozzles. Continuous strand is fed into the 
~chopper where it is cut to length. Fiber length can be varied from 
about % to 2 inches. 
(The longer fibérs are desirable 
for structural hecelinated Zar 
panels because they impart higher mechanical properties.) The 
Sr) REA) 
fibers are fed into thepath of the dual spray nozzles. Separate 
reservoirs supply one nozzle with catalyzed resin and the second 
nozzie with accelerated resin. The resin formulation is tailored 
such that neither component is highly reactive, and therefore, 
each may remain in the reservoirs for at least several hours. 
When the products leave the dual elements of the spray gun, they 
intersect and intersperse, and pick up the chopped fibers before 
striking the mold. The resin mixture is then ready to cure ata 
convenient rate as predetermined by the concentration of 
catalyst and accelerator. 
Plastics in Building 
Irving Skeist, Ed. 
1966; 466 pp. 
$22.50 postpaid 
from: 
Van Nostrand-Reinhold 
450 East 33rd Street 
New York, N. Y. 10001 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Fic. 8B-2. Sandwich panel with honeycomb core. 
1 
Plastic 
Shelter 
alates Lean 
™ 
x 
* HIGH PEEL STWES* POINT 
; 
SaweK PEA STRESs POINT 
10-4. Effect of joint shape on necking. 
2 
F- 
3 
ae 
BREAKER STRIP OR FLEXIBLE BACKUP 
| 
LOWER 
FEEL 
STRESS Point 
Fic. 10-5. Reducing stresses with a breaker strip. 
Soup BACKUP 
*HIGH PEEL STRESS PoInT 
Setay Wu 
Continuous Strand 
b Choype 
JOINT SHAPES 
The shape of the joint has considerable effect on the success of 
the joint sealant. Asa joint moves, stresses are imposed on the 
sealant that may be mofe or less severe, depending on the natural 
or Original shape of the joint. The deeper a sealant is in a given 
joint for a given width, the more ‘’necking’”’ and internal stress 
Fl
occurs in the sealant as the joint opens. As is seen in Figure 10-4. 
a joint % inch wide X 1 inch deep “‘necks’’ or pulls up within 
itself far more than a joint % inch wide X % inch deep. 
Consequently, there is a greater chance for cohesive failure 
with the deeper joint. A similar problem is solved when a 
sealant is used 
in a joint in which there is no breaker strip at 
E 
the bottom or back of the joint, so that the sealant is in 
contact with three sides of the joint with only the face of the 
joint exposed. This, again, puts a greater strain on the cohesive 
strength of the sealant. The obvious recommendation here is 
to employ a breaker strip or type of backing which will not 
restrict or restrain the sealant, but will move with it as the joint. 
_moves (Figure 10-5). 
Shrinkage is another characteristic whose importance varies 
in 
with the use of the sealant. 
If the sealant is applied in a corner 
% 
joint as a fillet, shrinkage actually may be desirable-in order to have 
the joint become concave. On the other hand, a sealant put in 
the %-inch joint between two adjacent porcelain enamel panels 
cannot have excessive shrinkage or it will shrink into the joint 
;
providing an unsatisfactory. appearance and also reducing the 
‘ 
4
amount of sealant in the joint, possibly to an unsatisfactory 
a
amount. Sealants are available with shrinkage rates ranging from 
% 
practically 0 to 50 per cent. 
If avery low order of shrinkage 
P 
is required, a two-part chemically curing compound will provide 
4 
shrinkages in the order of 0 to 2 per cent. 
If a modest amount of 
“ 
shrinkage is permissible and other characteristics unique in the 
compound are desired, solvent-release type compounds are 
available with shrinkages ranging from 10 to 20 per cent. For 
certain applications, sealants with 40 to 50 per cent solven, 
providing about that amoung of shrinkage eventually, may be 
entirely satisfactory, e.g., for needle glazing and other small 
joints where a concave finished joint is not harmful. 
t 
Several plastic coatings, including epoxies, urethanes and polyesters, 
: 
have established themselves as extremely durable surfaces with 
bs
excellent bonding characteristics. These coatings form their films 
; 
by chemical action rather than oxidation or evaporation as in the 
i 
case of the paints. A urethane coating was used for the car 
aa 
shelter and breezeway panels of the South Bend house. This two-part 
— 
system) promises excellent weather resistance and color retention. 
1
One clear coat of the formulation was plant applied during 
;
fabrication of the sandwich panels. After the initial color coat 
was mixed and brush applied at the site, an additional coat which 
contained a pure silica sand for texturing finished the surfaces. 
The coating has performed well and appears to be particularly 
able to conceal plywood grain raising and checking. 
Fig. 19A-3. Extruded vinyl waterstop. (Courtesy Cementa A.S. 
Copenhagen, Denmark) 
A remarkably designed extruded viny| (Figure 19A-3) waterstop 
is being used as a peripheral insulation. The diamond-shaped 
center portion serves as a mechanical spring. When the concrete 
expands, the diamond collapses; when the concrete contracts, 
the diamond expands pushing the fins tightly into position. 
