aba 
@- 
pe 
ee 
Se 
The Elements of Style 
Watch a craftsman work. With a few well cared-for tools and 
direct unshowy motions he keeps the work moving steadily 
toward completion. 
The result looks as if it must have been 
easy to do,‘surprisingly inevitable’. 
You can write like that. 
Here are the tools. 
—SB 
The Elements of Style 
William Strunk, Jr., E.B. White 
1959; 71 pp. 
$1 -45 postpaid 
from: 
MacmillanCo. 
866 Third Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10022 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
See Epilog, page 684 
10. Use the active voice. 
The active voice is usually more direct and vigorous than the 
Passive: 
I shall always remember my first visit to Boston. 
This is much better than 
My first visit to Boston will always be remembered by me. 
The latter sentence is less direct, less bold, and less concise. 
1. Put statements in positive form. 
Make definite assertions. Avoid tame, colorless, hesitating, 
noncommittal language. Use the word not as a means of denial or in 
antithesis, never as a means of evasion. 
He was not very often on 
time. 
He did not think that study- 
ing Latin was much use. 
He usually came late. 
He thought the study of 
Latin useless. 
12. Use definite, specific, concrete language. 
Prefer the specific to the general, the definite to the vague, 
the concrete to the abstract. 
A period of unfavorable 
weather set in. 
It rained every day for a week. 
He showed satisfaction as he 
took possession of his well- 
earned reward. 
He grinned as he pocketed 
the coin. 
e 
18. Place the emphatic words of a sentence at the end. | 
The proper place in the sentence for the word or group of 
words that the writer desires to make most prominent is usually the 
end. 
Humanity has hardly ad- 
vanced in fortitude since that 
time, though it has advanced 
in many other ways. 
Humanity, since that time, has 
advanced in many other ways, 
but it has hardly advanced in 
fortitude. 
Because of its hardness, this 
steel ts principally used in 
making razors. 
This steel is principally used 
for making razors, because of 
its hardness 
The breezy style is often the work of an egocentric, the person who 
imagines that everything that pops into his head is of general interest 
and that uninhibited prose creates high spirits and carries the day. 
Open any alumni magazine, turn to the class notes, and you are quite 
likely to encounter old Spontaneous Me at work— an introductory 
paragraph that goes something like this: 
Well, chums, here I am again with my bagful of dirt about your dis- 
orderly classmates, after spending a helluva weekend in N’Yawk trying 
to view the Columbia game from behind two bumbershoots and a 
glazed cornea. And speaking of news, howzabout tossing a few chirce 
nuggets my way? 
This is an extreme example, but the same wind blows, at lesser velocities, 
across vast expanses of journalistic prose. The author in this case has 
managed in two sentences to commit most of the unpardonable sins: 
he obviously has:nothing to say, he is showing off and directing the 
attention of the reader to himself, he is using slang with neither provo- 
cation nor ingenuity, he adopts a patronizing air by throwing in the 
word ‘‘chirce,”’ he is tasteless, humorless (though full of fun), dull, and 
empty. He has not done his work. Compare his opening remarks with 
the following— 
a plunge directly into the news: 
Clyde Crawford, who stroked the varsity shell in 1928, is swinging an 
oar again after a lapse of thirty years. Clyde resigned last spring as 
executive sales manager of the Indiana Flotex Company and is now a 
gondolier in Venice. 
This, although conventional, is compact, informative, unpretentious. 
The writer has dug up an item of news and presented it in a straight- 
forward manner. What the first,writer tried to accomplish by cutting 
rbetorical capers and by breeziness, the second writer managed to 
achieve by good reporting, by keeping a tight rein on his material, and 
by staying out of the act. 
Style 
Ce eins. cations 
_ firm, maybe even grow. 
Philadelphia, PA 19105 
ABC. of Reading 
/n grade and high school | was taught how to hate Shake- 
speare, most novelists, and all poetry. College merely 
burnished my ignorance, adding the ability to hate in 
French. Ezra Pound, where were you when | needed you? 
Through Pound, literature becomes a place to revel, con- 
—SB 
[Suggested by Frank Deis] 
EZRA POUND 
ABC of Reading 
Ezra Pound 
1934; 206 pp. 
$1 Ie postpaid 
from: 
New Directions Publishing Corp. 
J. B. Lippincott Co. 
East Washington Square 
OF READING 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
It doesn’t, in our contemporary world, so much matter where 
you begin the examination of a subject, $o'long as you keep on: 
until you get round again to your starting-point. 
Language is a means of communication. To charge language 
with meaning to the utmost possible degree, we have, as stated, 
the three chief means: 
I throwing the object (fixed or.moving) on to the visual 
imagination. 
II inducing emotional correlations by the sound and rhythm 
of the speech. 
III inducing both of the effects by stimulating the associations 
(intellectual or emotional) that have remained in the receiver's 
consciousness in relation to the actual words or word groups 
employed. 
Literary Essays of Ezra Pound 
Someone was set on a trip (Spring, 
1970 Catalog) when she found 
that Ezra Pound had delivered unto man the only good mind- 
blower on language and literature in the ABC of Reading. /n the 
ABC, though, E.P. only elaborated on a much more concise and 
potent pronunciamento he handed down in the New York 
Herald ‘Books’ supplement in 1927 or 1928 under the title 
“How to Read.” That reading lesson is available in the company 
of thirty-five other vigorous and iconoclastic forrays by E.P. in 
the Literary Essays of Ezra Pound (a/so New Directions ppbk: 
NDP250; $3.25). For less than three times the bread for the 
ABC, E.P. will spring open your mind and ears as he lets go with 
some sharp barbs at “institutions for the obstruction of learning” 
and their inhabitants, while he lets you see and connect with 
those men, from the Medieval troubadours to Brancusi, who knew 
where and what it was and how to put it together long before we 
even were. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Joseph] 
Literary Essays of Ezra Pound 
becery ay: 
T.S. Elliot, ed. 
of Ezra Pound 
1935, 1968; 464 ppl 
$3.25 postpaid 
from: 
New Directions Publishing Corporation 
East Washington Square 
Philadelphia, Pa. 19105 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
A civilization was founded on Homer, civilization not a mere bloated 
empire. The Macedonian domination rose and grew after the sophists. 
It also subsided. 
It is not only a question of rhetoric, of loose expression, but also of the 
loose use of individual words. What the renaissance gained in direct 
examination of natural phenomena, it in part lost in losing the feel 
and desire for exact descriptive terms. 
| mean that the medieval mind 
had little but words to deal with, and it was more careful in its 
definitions and verbiage. 
It did-not define a gun in terms that would 
just as well define an explosion, nor explosions in terms that would 
define triggers. 
Misquoting Confucius, one might say: 
!t does not matter whether the 
author desire the good of the race or acts merely from personal vanity. 
The thing is mechanical in action. 
In proportion as his work is exact, 
i.e., true to human consciousness and to the nature of man, as it 
is exact in formulation of desire, so is it durable and so is it ‘useful’; 
| mean it maintains the precision and clarity of thought, not mefely for 
the benefit of a few dilettantes and ‘lovers of literature’, but maintains 
the health of thought outside literary circles and in non-literary 
existence, in general individual and communal life. 
No one wants the native American poet to be au courant with the 
literary affairs of Paris and London in order that he may make 
imitations of Paris and London models, but precisely in order that he 
shall not waste his lifetime making unconscious, or semi-conscious, 
imitations of French and English models thirty or forty or an hundred 
years old. 
Peek 
“4 
- 
Style results; it does not precede. 
unhappiness as four years of majoring in English. 
: 
—SB 
a 
Ss 
: 
Nothing so fits 
a 
person for a life of dedicated useless 
a 
PTePUUTUCLOCOC LTT 
(phanopoeia, melopoeia, logopoeia) 
Incompetence will show in the use of too many words. 
The reader's first and simplest test of an author will be to look 
for words that do not function; that contribute nothing to the 
meaning OR that distract from the MOST important factor of 
the meaning.to factors of minor importance. 
‘Literature is news that STAYS news.’ 
The man who really knows can tell all that is transmissible in a 
very few words. The economic problem of the teacher (of violin 
or of language or of anything else) is how to string it out so as 
to be paid for more lessons. 
~ 
Men do not understand BOOKS until they have had a certain 
| 
amount of life. Or at any rate no man understands a deep book, 
~ 
until he has seen and lived at least part of its contents. 
The 
, 
prejudice against books has grown from observing the stupidity 
of men who have merely reat¥ books. 
Chaucer and Shakespeare have both an insuperable courage in 
tackling any, but absolutely any, thing that arouses their interest. 
The sonnet was first the ‘little tune’, the first strophe of a canzone, 
the form found when some chap got so far and couldn’t proceed. 
Steadily in the wake of the sonneteers came the dull poets. 
How to Need a Catalog 
Wendell Berry says this letter is a fugue, /t’s a real letter written by 
aman who says what he means. 
/t came to us through Gurney 
Norman. 
—SB 
Dear TV Star Editor 
Iam writing you this letter for some help from this TV Show.. That 
Iam a single man looking for a wife. Iam 61 years old not never 
been married. I am trying to look for some women of any age and 
near my age 61 years old and as tall as 1 am tall. I am even 6 
feet 
tall weigh 198 lbs. I am looking for some just about as tall that 
would weigh from 289 to 298 or better with extra very nice wide 
large full breast with such a pretty nice large heavy extra wide round 
well built legs and extra wide full size hips and very pretty wéll 
stout and filled around her legs and waist line I would like to get 
married to some of the colored widow and to some white German 
and to some Indian women. I would like to join in and go with 
the wild west show. I like to ride these montana and North Dakota 
North Western wild unbroke horses. And mares. I have been with 
the rodeo show since I was 13 years old. I cannot get no other kin 
of work around here or no construction work or any other kind 
of work, Because I am nota married man. But I will tell you that 
Iama 
real good man yet that can go out and do a good days work — 
yet. I like my wild and tame mare horses and I like also my women 
nice and heavy set with extra wide round legs and hips around their 
waist and extra wide and large full size breast I would like to get 
some naked women without anything on there bodies. Just there 
bare skin. I would like to see there naked full size breast and there 
extra wide waist and extra round heavy legs above there knees and ° | 
extra round fat arms. 
There full linth of there stout heavy naked 
body. 
Will you please send me a free book of all kind of women 
that are colored White German Spanish Indian race and all different 
— 
race widow women. I do like to get acquainted with them all black 
white red widow women... I want there names and address from 
them and from you. I would like to ask you if you please help a 
poor man out as long as he is sick in the hospital. I am looking for 
some help till I could get back on my feet again. I will soon get my 
— 
discharge this hospital next month in August or in the month of 
September of this year in 1962. Iam looking for some help from 
you and from the widow women. I need some writing paper 
envelopes and some stamps so I can write you also to the women. 
I want them to be red extra stout and well heavy set around the 
legs above the knees. That would have a very nice big farm ranch 
plenty of wild tame herefored cows and hereford white face 
heifers tame and wild mare horses and if they have about 375 head of | 
these red heavy sows and hogs and also some real heavy laying red 
chickens that weight 75 up to 98 pounds. I like all my women reall 
extra heavy with full wide large breast also with extra large full 
f 
wide extra round fat legs above the knees and there widest part of 
the thickest of the waistline hip bones. That do measure 74 
Ay 
around there breast and a 78 there widest and the thickest of there 
~ 
thighs above the knee. And the waist line hips and extra round fat. | 
arms, Above there fore-arm extra round fat calf and the thighs of . 
there legs. That would not weight less than 298 hundred to 398 
hundred pounds. 
or over that weight. I want women that are 
extra stout full large size breast and real extra wide across there 
Bs 
large size part of the hips and the waist line extra round fat legs 
= 
down to the ankles shoe slipper of there feet. Extra round fat arms 
to the wrist of the hand. I do like to have some of the widow 
a 
women to help me and each of them could send me about $5.00 
des 
or more. I want to come to the state of New York BecauseI was 
not in New York state at all I wish to come to New York and find 
myself some colored and some white also some of the indian na 
women. 
That I could get some farm and ranch work and live with A 
all the colored Indian white widow women I want a home with 
every one of the white women colored widow women and with - 
i 
the red Indian widow women. 
Will you please answer on this 
“si 
letter. Pleasé send me a widow woman catalog of all colored, 
|
i 
y 
white and Indian women. 
