from Beauty of Flight, Manfred Curry, 
date unknown, John Day Company, 
out of print; kindly loaned to us by 
Jay Bonner’s father. 
Yay 
Now, here.s why I’m writing, private aviation is beautifully com- 
patible with the life style of WHOLE EARTH readers and not at all 
the straight, statusy thing many think it is. 
You can get a good two passenger plane for under $2,500, a good 
four passenger plane for under $3,500. You can get 35 mpg and travel 
at more than 100 mph for about 5 cents a mile. You can be free as 
a bird, see the countryside as no earthling can, camp away from 
| 
crowds and fuzz, be welcome on farmers’ landing strips and even 
work on the farm for a while. 
You can trade learning to fly for the instructor’s use of your plane— 
| 
and do the same flying-time-for-labor trade with a mechanic for 
maintenance. But maintenance isn’t as high as generally supposed 
anyway. 
If you have a four passenger plane you can share expenses 
| 
with other couples and travel almost free since their share.covers gas, 
oil, food, etc. for the owners (the owners share covers maintenance, 
depreciation, insurance, tie-down— so it's réally a fair (or should 
| say fare), (sorry about that, it was pretty bad), bargin. 
| 
! have enclosed a copy of Trade-A-Plane ($4.00 per year), and some 
aviation charts which show how many airports and landing strips 
there really are. 
| have marked some plane prices in Trade-A-Plane 
just to give you some idea of costs. 
| 
| can not here do justice to the truly far out places we’ve been— 
the 
deserted beaches where we've walked and slept naked in the sun, 
. 
the rivers we've followed like footpaths only to land at their edge 
and camp when they turned to gold in the afternoon sun, nor the 
islands, idyllic and ‘‘ours’’ where we've floated and swum in water 
whose clarity was only surpassed by the crystal clear sky above us. 
We have encountered the scent of orange blossoms half a mile over 
| 
Florida at night and visited Mexican villages and out of the way 
towns-no tourist chained to a Cadillac ever will see. 
To come down, pilots are kindred souls welcome at flying farmers’ 
| 
landing strips. 
(It's almost impossible to be more than 15 miles 
from a landing strip in the midwest— see Chicago chart). Most 
airport operators will lend you a car to go to the grocery store, and 
many airports keep several beat up VW’s or similar cars around that 
| 
you can use for no more than a couple of dollars placed in a cigar 
box in the glove compartment. Not long ago the operator at 
Lancaster, Pa. apologized for being out of cars and gave me the snow- 
| 
plow to drive into town. 
Quite apart from the bare bones super economy kind of mostly 
nomadic flying, one of the best buy planes for more settled and 
| 
regularly working couples or singles is the early Cessna 172. A 
four passenger, all metal, 120 mph. tri-cycle gear plane, it can be 
bought for about $5,000. On time payments that would be about 
$500 down, $100 a month. Maintenance is low and you travel 
120 miles for 8 gallons of gas at .42 a gallon. 
| 
Don.t be turned off by age of planes advertised, age really isn’t a 
factor with a reasonably well maintained plane. 
Peace, 
| 
Don Biggs 
Arlington, VA. 
Private Pilot Study Guide 
Of preparatory books for the FAA exam, this is the best. 
Cram, pass, fly. 
Private Pilot Study Guide 
Leroy Simonson 
1973; 440 pp & map 
$10.00 Postpaid 
from: 
Aviation Book Company 
Box 4187 
‘Glendale,/CA 91202 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Others 
: 
Other basic books recommended by Plane & Pilot 
Magazine: 
a 
rT] 
a 
a 
a 
a Whe New Private Pilot 
a Student Pilot Flight Manual 
§ Private Pilot Flight Manual 
® Flight Maneuvers Manual 
2 Roll Around A Point 
g instrument Procedures and Techniques 
a Airframe and Powerplant Mechanics 
a Pilots Guide to an Airline Career 
. Safety After Solo 
5 
Boo 
In light of what you state as your purpose (which I whole-heartedly 
endorse,) I think you are way off base on a good part of your 
information on flying. 99% of all flying is directly government 
controlled, is very big business, and demands and requires formal 
education and training. Modern flying has been described as long 
periods of boredom punctuated by moments of sheer panic; if you 
knew what was going on in the cockpit as you circled in solid over- 
cast for a rush hour approach to Kennedy you’d never fly again. 
You haven’t gotten far enough away from the crap yet in the 
CATALOG. 
Try soaring. The Schwiezer’s are the only major manufacturers 
of sailplanes in the US. All of their ships are very tough, and while 
very short of performance compared to the German fibreglass ships, 
a lot of fun and an awful lot cheaper. The I-26, a classic sailplane, 
(Steve McQueen flew one in “The Thomas Crown Affair, ”) can be 
built from a kit for around $2500.00. 
It will be worth more than 
you paid for it when finished. 
I’m getting very hot on ballooning, but know nothing about it. 
Worth looking into. 
I suggest dropping the So You'd Like to Buy an Airplane and 
Used Plane Buying Guide. 
You only need two things to-buy an 
airplane: a copy of “Trade-A-Plane” 
for current prices, and an AGE 
mechanic to check it out. All that crap about checking the fabric 
for wrinkles doesn’t mean squat if the spars are rotten. 
The best 
places to look are the little grass filled fields and short strips around 
your home. 
There are invariably perfectly good 15 and 20 year old 
planes sitting around for $2000-2500. 
Great fun and you can sell it 
a year later for what you paid for tt. 
Stick and Rudder definitely keep in. Indeed a classic; not a bit 
outdated and never will be. There are several flying magazines avail- 
able. If you've read one you've read them all. (“How to make safe 
landings ANYWHERE!” turns out to be the same old rehash about 
power and attitude.) There is one exception: 
“Private Pilot.”’ 
Relatively new, struggling I 
suspect, and very exciting. Also very 
nicely put together, from a technical and design point of view. I 
hope they make it. 
sbi
cl
cepeia
a
Drop the BD-4. Its not really a home-built in the “‘pure” sense, but 
akit. It’s not really a very good plane (no wing dihedral, te, lousy 
longitudinal stability, tiny tail, and flimsy gear.) It’s not really cheap 
either. It appeals to insurance salesmen who always wanted a four 
seater of their own to fly the kids and the missus up to the folks but 
never could afford it, and never finish it. It’s a bummer really. 
Soap inside your chocolate bar. 
{ 
Pertinent addresses: 
ig 
Private Pilot, Dept. PV5 
3 West 57th St. 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
Schweizer Aircraft Corp. 
Box 147 
Elmira, N.Y. 14902 
The Soaring Society of America; Inc. 
P.O. Box 66071-W 
Los Angeles, CA 90066 
© 
I’m not sure sport flying can be saved anymore in this country. I’m 
not sure we can afford to save it in the light of the zillions of things 
which need help more badly. But I would very much like to. 
y 
pa
ea
7 
z 
Sincerely, 
_D.J- Clausing 
Thetford, Vermont 
“ci
th 
ee
RI
oe 
o 
BEAR,TO STA, 
3° 2 
rte
reZ
320 +310 = 630 
630 - 360+ 270 
nag 
sse
2 
iy 
o
=. 
Mrs. Godsey sighed. She wanted to commisserate with Mrs. 
Thornton about Charlene, and maybe pick up some late news on 
her in the process. 
But sorting the mail, as little as it had been, had 
given her such a headache the world was starting to spin before her 
eyes. She sat down on the bench facing Mrs. Thornton’s chair, and 
appeared to go instantly to sleep. But ina 
little bit she opened her 
eyes and looked up at Mrs. Thornton and said, “Honey, | wonder 
if you'd do me a favor.” 
wi
oI
er
“Why sure,” said Mrs. Thornton. ‘You just tell me what it is.” 
s 
“Get mea 
R.C. out of the codler, and some of them Goody 
i 
Powders off the shelf. My poor old head feels like it’s about to 
ra
come apart.” 
if
Mrs. Thornton was a big woman and she had to struggle to get 
f 
to her feet. She was sweating just sitting there and as she walked to 
the cooler Mrs. Godsey invited her to help herself to a soft drink, 
on the house. Mrs. Thornton said she didn’t think she wanted any- 
thing right then. But once she peered into the cooler and saw the 
bottles standing cold and lucious in the dark water she changed her 
mind and took out a Dr. Pepper for herself. She opened them and 
got a package of Goody’s off the shelf. 
“don’t know what I’d do without my Goody’s,” said Mrs. 
Godsey as she fumbled with the wrapper. ““Them and R. C.’s is 
about all that'll keep me going any more.” 
(continued) 
—$_—_$____—__> 
Flying 
. 
Nomadics 
el mat
