: 
d 
te 
7 
i 
ee 
al 
Technological Checks and Balances 
oe 
As the 200th Anniversary of the American Rebellion, 
Declaration of Independence, Constitution, etc. comes by, 
we can expect some useful reappraisal of the splendid old 
instruments. 
They were an astonishing balance of utopian and cynical, 
the Federalist Papers, ready to try something new in a big 
way, and ready to acknowledge and use the 
omnipresence of unenlightened self-interest. 
For politics, for establishing a politically cybernetically 
stable system, they’re still effective. 
But for controlling technology, for stabilizing the economy 
and the drain on the environment, the-American 
Constitution hasn’t helped much. Neither has anyone 
else’s. 
Fortune 
/ started reading Fortune magazine after reading a lot of 
Buckminster Fuller because it was the only periodical with 
regular informative articles on his level of thinking (world 
shipping, construction, new industrial. processes, natural 
resources, etc.). What | found was editing and reporting 
that made the contents of most popular American 
magazines look like so much paste. 
—SB- 
Fortune 
$1 2 /yr (monthly) 
from: 
Fortune 
540 North Michigan Avenue 
Chicago, !Ilinois 60611 
THE WEALTH AND POWER OF THE OVERSEAS CHINESE 
Millions of expatriate Chinese knit a strong web of commerce 
through Southeast Asia, from Burma to the Philippines. They 
dominate the economic life of villages, cities, and even nations ina 
part of the world where the native populations, because of cultural 
attitudes and historical colonial policies, often lack the experience 
and lust for profit that the Chinese bring to business. 
In many of 
the countries where they operate, the Chinese must deal with 
political instability and corruption, and raciat hostility that some- 
times erupts into violence. Some hostility also springs from the 
envy of less successful local residents because the Chinese, by their 
very enterprise, often preempt the available business opportunities. 
But as a group they survive and prosper, and many international 
banks and corporations find the overseas Chinese to be invaluable 
as managers and allies. 
Many of the most prominent members of this international ex- 
patriate community, some of whom are pictured in the accompany- 
ing portfolio, are men who have been driven from one country to 
another by war or xenophobia, and who have had to start all over 
again in a new setting. This ability to build a new fortune in still 
another strange land is a telling testimonial to their extraordinary 
determination, and to their acumen. 
Economics 
Communications ~ 
4 
Fuller suggests that by amassing the technological and 
resource information and computer-relating it, on-going 
solutions will be self-evident. | doubt if that will be 
adequate. 
There are inter-relation forms, formulae, missing. 
Inventions of information structure not yet made. 
Since the early 1800’s economics has been fiddling 
around intelligently with self-balancing mechanisms, 
but still hasn’t done the job. Economics by itsélf is no 
more of a solution than politics by itself. 
— 
/t has got to be acknowledged that technology has some 
se/f-propelling dynamics of its own that unless turned on 
themselves will acclerate to destruction like an un-governed 
motor. 
The Money Game 
/ have been a close stock market observer for about five 
years and | am still amazed at the low /evel and inanity of 
writing about the stock market. Most books are so narrow 
and-confined as tobe virtually useless. 
The Money Game js the first really good book about the 
market that | have found. 
It doesn’t try to tell you how to 
make money or even how to play the game, but it Certainly 
may help you avoid losing. Its great value is in stimulating 
the reader to think about himself and his own relationship 
to gambling and about mass psychology and the way it 
influences price movements on the market. And it is funny 
and enjoyable besides. 
[Reviewed by Dave Shapira] 
The Money Game 
“Adam Smith’ 
1969; 253 pp. 
$1 .50 postpaid 
from: 
Dell Publishing Company 
750 Third Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Really big money is not made in the stock market by outside 
investors. That may come as a shock to you. You may not even 
care, since by ‘ really big ‘ | am talking about multiples of millions 
rather than just, say, one lousy million. 
It is certainly possible to 
make ten or twenty times your money as an outside investor in 
the stock market given enough time, enough intelligence, enough 
emotional detachment, enough luck, and somebody smart on the 
other end of the phone. 
It is possible because a lot of people have 
done it. 
Who makes the really big money? The inside stockholders of a 
company do, when the market capitalizes the earnings of that 
company. 
Prices have no memory, and yesterday has nothing to do with 
tomorrow. 
Every day starts out fifty-fifty. Yesterday's price 
discounted everything yesterday. -To quote Professor Fama, *‘the 
past history of the series (01 stock price changes) cannot be used 
to predict the future in any meaningful way! The future path of 
the price level or a security is no more predictable than the path 
of a series of cumulated random numbers.” 
Randomness as a way of beating the market is not limited to 
academics, of course. Senator Thomas J. Mcintyre, Democrat of 
New Hampshire and a member of the powerful Senate Banking 
Committee, brought his dart board in one day. Senator Mcintyre 
had tacked the stock market page onto his dart board and thrown 
darts at it, and the portfolio picked by his darts outperformed 
almost all the mutual funds, - 
(Senator MclIntyre’s darts thus 
supported the random-walk testimony of Professors Paul Samuelson 
of MIT and Henry Wallich of Yale, given when the Senate was 
considering mutual-fund legislation.) 
Herman Kahn, the wide-ranging savant who heads the Hudson 
Institute, has observed: 
‘‘When you ask a European what he 
does, instead of saying he’s a clerk, he is likely to say, ‘I'ma 
motor driver,’ or ‘I’m a mountain climber.’ ” Americans are 
tending in this direction; what a man does with his leisure is 
- perceived, increasingly, as a key to his identity. Boating 
enthusiasts— 
nearly nine million Americans own boats— identify 
themselves as a breed apart from golfers, and neither resembles 
bowlers or Sunday painters; among boating men, moreover, the 
sailing fans see themselves as distinct from (and superior to) the 
outboard-motor crowd. 
The psychiatrist Erik Erikson of Harvard, who is perhaps America’s 
leading student of adolescence and youth, has suggested forcibly 
that the new behavror patterns of the young in the 1960's may not 
y 
represent any wave of the future at all. Erikson believes that 
“the available inventory” of pleasure-seeking experience will be 
Me tried by the young and found only moderately satisfying, and “new 
boundaries will then emerge from new ways of. finding out, what 
really counts.””. Their judgment about what it is that ‘‘really 
counts” is perhaps the largest of all the uncertainties about the 
U.S. economy in the years ahead. 
Saying the machine. gught 
to slow down does nothing. The 
| 
machine must be given the ability to address itself. 
The whole machine: from which economics, politics, ecology, 
computers, and we...are not separate. 
Fae 
. 
te
a
ey 
oe 
/f that’ means new and more encompassing Constitutional 
models, let’s get cooking. 
:
All we have so far is the old perpetually recurrent stablizing ry
system of internal-rivallry. Our technology addresses itself 
| 
by means of war. That’s cool: all systems go in for it. 
4 
Stable systems have rules, however, and accomplishable 
ae 
tokens of victory and loss. Our present World War system 
a 
is short on these. 
> 
; 
Perhaps our effort should be to civilize war rather.than 
| 
eliminate it. 
“a 
—SB ‘71 
i 
»} 
=| 
‘An Alternative. Future for America II 
What’s different about this book of economics is that it was 
designed by graduate students. 
Though Theobald is the soloist, 
i 
the voices of the young generation can plainly be heard. 
It _ 
ai 
makes you wish that every author who writes about new ways 
, 
_of coping with the changing world would be forced to immerse 
himeslf in the lives of those for whom he purports to make 
- 
predictions. 
Because it reads like a collection of class notes and uncompleted - 
journal articles (all of which is probably true), the book pulled me 
into wanting to add a chapter or two of my own. 
That is a 
delicious feeling, when you have been so many times bored by 
economics texts. 
e 
In fact, the book abruptly ends with a spcific invitation to its 
tl 
readers to take some further action. 
| would hope subsequent 
editions will continue to have such an open-ended design. 
The stuff to “wow” over in the book includes Theobald’s high- 
- headed insights into computerized decision making (“There is no 
~ 
doubt in my mind that the computer has been one of the factors 
that has led us into the present disastrous situation in Vietnam”), 
and his list of the five traps we've laid for our social system: 
the 
— 
war trap, into which we have put all our ultimate sanctions for 
solving international disputes; the efficiency trap, in which we 
place man’s human value to lie measured against the efficiency of 
4 
machines; the consumption trap— 
jf it’s good, it must have a 
sales price and be advertised; and the education trap, in which we 
cement our behavior to the past. 
The fifth trap never gets listed— 
see what | mean: 
“unfinished journal articles’’? 
« 
Theobald’s most orderly work has to do with his persuasive case 
for a guaranteed income, about which he has written for many 
years. 
The potentiality for his ideas during this distressed period 
P 
of history. are ever more dazzling. And in this book, the dazzlement 
is fully let loose in a series 
of far-out proposals for experimenting 
with altered life styles. 
It may be weeks before | stop trembling. 
That’s why | wanted to add another chapter or two, when I got to 
the end of the book. 
[Reviewed by Richard Raymond] 
An Alternative Future for America II 
Robert Theobald 
‘ 
1968, 1970; 199 pp. 
$2.00 postpaid 
from: 
The Swallow Press, Inc. 
1139 Wabash Avenue 
Chicago, Illinois 60605 
or WHOLE 
EARTH 
CATALOG 
“Our key problem stems from the fact that we have made the 
value of a man synonymous with the economic value of the toil 
he performs: 
we fail to recognize that people should have a 
; 
claim on resources even if they do not toil. The measure of destruc- 
— 
tion of our values is, | believe, shown in the fact that those living in 
: 
an industrial society find it natural that people do not receive an 
a 
adequate amount of food, clothing and shelter even though there 
Lat 
is surplus food in storage and the possibility of producing more 
:. 
housing and more clothing if we gave people the money to buy 
them. We can contrast this view with that of the so-called prim- 
itive societies; in many of these it was literally impossible to 
starve unless the whole community was starving. George Peter 
Murdoch, the celebrated anthropologist, described the reaction 
of one group of natives when he tried to explain the problem of 
the poor in Western countries. There was stark disbelief: 
‘“How 
can he have.no food? Does he have no friends? How can he have 
no house? 
Does he have no neighbors?” 
We can anticipate the organization of what | have called ‘’consentives’’: 
productive groups formed by individuals who will come together on a 
voluntary basis, simply because they wish to do so. The goods produced 
by these consentives will not compete with mass-produced products 
__ 
available from cybernated productive organizations; the consentive will 
— 
produce the ‘‘custom-designed”’ goods and services which have been 
vanishing within the present economy. 
? 
