j 
| (secondly) 
in its character 
as an attitude 
of contemplative 
‘celebration’, 
in 
i 
Hy 
| The I Ching, the Book of Changes, is a brilliant problem- 
_ solving device. A problem (or ignorance) generally consists 
_of being caught in local cyclic thinking. To consult the 
oracle, the wisdom of chance (or synchronicity, no matter), 
__ is to step out of the cycle of no-change and address a specific 
__ 
story on the nature of change. You now have an alternative 
_ set of solutions that owe nothing but proximity to your 
- 
problem. You make the associations, you find the way out. 
les pra yer. 
|. I can’t think of a more important and useful book than this 
one. It’s famously ; 
ancient, poetic, deep, esoteric, simple, 
% 
Baling. /t has been the most influential book on American 
ig art and artists in the last.15 years. 
_ Most people know about it. We've included it here to point 
| at the new smaller (unabridged) cheaper Princeton University 
| Press version of the classic Wilhelm-Baynes Bollingen edition. 
| The oracle method is still on page 721. 
_ The I Ching 
(3 Translated by Richard Wilhelm, Cary F. Baynes 
t 
Ws B.C.; 740 pp. 
—SB 
\4 a8 00. postal 
from: 
_ 
Shambhala Publications 
2045 Francisco Street 
Berkeley, CA 94709 
or 
| 
$8.50 postpaid 
| 
from: 
— 
r 
Princeton University Press 
: 
|, 
Princeton, New Jersey 08540 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
| 
Leisure— The Basis of Culture 
| This is a searching, philosophical book, examining some important 
| questions. It first appeared 20 years ago and surprisingly few Prgete 
have read it. 
_ But that isn’t the item. 
|| Here’s the item: why would an economic consultant, specializing in 
recreation resources, turn to this kind of philosophical tract as a 
| sourcebook (with an introduction by T.S. Eliot, yet!), when there 
are dozens of current, thickly documented studies available, prepared 
by first rate scholars, dealing with leisure, social change, consumer 
economics, and all the other relevant issues consultants are paid to 
investigate? 
That is a question | am anxious to answer, especially for Whole 
‘Earth readers, who are inclined to be, | imagine, more than 
| superficially interested in issues as basic to these times as leisure 
and our culture. 
_ the subject of leisure, | realize that no one has contributed much 
| new wisdom to the field beyond what Pieper, in fewer than 100 
pages, has laid out. His major contribution, in my opinion, is to 
_set down a fundamental, no horseshit, definition of leisure, which 
certainly. has nothing to do with motor boat sales, average hours 
_ of work, and all that statistical trash that keep so many consultants 
and writers employed. In Piepers’s words 
| 
; 
| 
Whenever | read the current literature and listen to the experts on. 
_ Leisure, it must be clearly understood, is a mental and spiritual 
- attitude— 
it is not simply the result of external factors, it is not 
| 
the inevitable result of spare time, a holiday, a weekend ora 
| vacation. 
It is, in the first place, an attitude of mind, a condition 
_.of the soul, and as such utterly contrary to the ideal of ‘worker’ 
in each and every one of the three aspects under which it was 
|e 
analysed: work as activity, as toil, asa social function. 
BS Compared with the exclusive ideal of work as activity, leisure 
implies (in the first place) an attitude of non-activity, of inward 
~ 
calm, or silence; it means not being ‘busy’, but letting things 
c pepper: 
~ 
Leisure is a form of silence, of that silence which is the pre- 
3 
requisite of the apprehension of reality: only the silent hear and 
F those who do not remain silent do not hear. Silence, as it is used 
\ in this context, does not mean ‘dumbness’ or ‘noiseless’; it means 
more nearly that the soul’s power to ‘answer’ to the reality of the 
- world is left undisturbed. For leisure is a receptive attitude, and 
it is not only the occasion but also the capacity for steeping oneself 
Fe in the whole of creation. 
The adoption of this definition is like adopting a religion. 
Your life 
may be permanently altered. 
iy Leisure is not the attitude of mind of those who actively intervene, 
| % but of those who are open to everything; not of those who grab and 
- grab hold, but of those who leave the reins loose and who are free and 
easy themselves— almost like a man falling asleep, for one can only 
~ fall asleep by ‘letting oneself go’. Sleeplessness and the incapacity for 
leisure are really related to one another in a special sense, and a man 
at leisure is not unlike a man asleep. 
_ Compared with the exclusive ideal of work as toil, leisure appears 
lt a word that, properly understood, goes to the very heart of the 
ning which | am concerned to put before you. . 
.God, we are told 
; 
“in the first chapter of Genesis, ‘ended his work which he had made’ 
and ‘behold, it was very good’. 
In the same way man celebrates and 
“gratefully accepts the reality of creation in leisure, and the inner 
_ vision that accompanies it. And just as Holy Scripture tells us that 
God rested on the seventh day and beheld that ‘the work which he had 
\ made’ was ‘very good’— so too it is leisure which leads man to 
accept the reality of the creation and thus to celebrate it, resting on 
the inner vision that accompanies it. 
40. Hsteh / Deliverance 
above 
CHEN 
THE AROUSING, THUNDER 
below 
K’AN 
THE ABYSMAL, WATER 
Hi 
Here the movement goes out of the sphere of danger: The 
obstacle has been removed, the difficulties are being resolved. 
Deliverance is not yet achieved; it is just in its beginning, and 
the hexagram represents its various stages. 
THE JUDGMENT 
DELIVERANCE. The southwest furthers. 
If there is no longer anything where one has to go, 
Return brings good fortune. 
If there is still something where one has to go, 
Hastening brings good fortune. 
40. Hsieh | Deliverance 
This refers to a time in which tensions and complications begin 
to be eased. At such times we ought to make our way back to 
ordinary conditions as soon as possible; this is the meaning of 
“the southwest.”’ These periods of sudden change have great 
importance. Just as rain relieves atmospheric tension, making 
all the buds burst open, so a time of deliverance from burden- 
some pressure has a liberating and stimulating effect on life. 
One thing is important, however: in such times we must not 
overdo our triumph. The point is not to push on farther than is 
necessary. Returning to the regular order of life as soon as 
deliverance is achieved brings good fortune. If there are any 
residual matters that ought to be attended to, it should be done 
as quickly as possible, so that a clean Suibed is made and no 
retardations occur. 
THE 
IMAGE 
Thunder and rain set in: 
The image of DELIVERANCE. 
Thus the superior man pardons mistakes 
And forgives misdeeds. 
A thunderstorm has the effect of clearing the air; the superior 
man produces a similar effect when dealing with mistakes and 
sins of men that induce a condition of tension. Through clarity 
he brings deliverance. However, when failings come to light, 
he does not dwell on them; he simply passes over mistakes, the 
— 
unintentional transgressions, just as thunder dies away. He 
forgives misdeeds, the intentional transgressions, just as water 
washes everything clean. 
. 1m the same way, no one who looks to leisure simply to restore his 
working powers will ever discover the fruit of leisure; he will never 
know the quickening that follows, almost as though from some deep 
sleep. 
-Aristotle says of leisure, ‘A man will live thus, not to the 
extent that he is a man, but to the extent that a divine principle dwells 
within him.’ 
Leisure, it must be remembered, is not a Sunday afternoon idyll, but 
the preserve of freedom of education and culture, and of that un- 
diminished humanity which views the world as a whole. 
. once again, work stops for the sake of work, and the feast is 
subordinated to ‘work’. There can of course be games, circenses, 
circuses— but who would think of describing that kind of mass 
entertainment as festal?- 
It simply cannot be otherwise: 
the world of ‘work’ and of the 
‘worker’ is a poor, impoverished world, be it ever so rich in material 
goods; for on an exclusively utilitarian basis, on the basis, that is, 
of the world of ‘work’, genuine wealth, wealth which implies over- 
flowing into superfiuities, into unnecessaries, is just not possible. 
Wherever the superfluous makes its appearance it is immediately 
subjected to the rationalist, utilitarian principle of the world of 
work. And, as the traditional Russian saying puts it: work does 
not make one rich, but round-shouldered. 
[Suggested and reviewed by Richard Raymond] 
Leisure— The Basis of Culture 
Josef Pieper 
1952; 127 pp. 
$.95 postpaid 
trom: 
New American Library 
1301 Ave. of the Americas 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
or WHOLE.EARTH CATALOG 
With wh barredascien ty TR BLOT 
WEDNESDAY: URGE’S BATH 
When D.R. went off the hill late Wednesday to mail his-letter to 
the Flash he was almost certain there’d be a letter waiting for him 
at the store. From the Flash, from Marcella, maybe even, by sudden 
cosmic arrangement, some word from Estelle. A postcard, a note, 
something, from somebody. 
But there wasn’t, and D.R. had to fight his disappointment down. 
He bought a Coke from Mrs. Godsey, and after he had drunk it 
he bought a few more groceries to see him through the remainder of 
the week. Mrs. Godsey asked D.R. how he was and he said fine, 
but it was clear to her that he wasn’t fine, and Mrs. Godsey found 
herself worrying about D.R. a little. She tried to think of something 
to say that might make him feel better, but she didn’t have any 
confidence in any of the words that occurred to her. She wrote his 
groceries up in the account book, and wished him a good day as he 
carried them out the door. But that wasn’t enough, it wasn’t 
enough at all and she felt bad about D.R. as the screen soars 
slammed behind him. 
Before he started back up the hill, D.R. went around in back of 
Godsey’s store to look in Urge a minute. 
Urge had still not been 
given a thorough cleaning since he had been in Kentucky. A little 
_at a time, D.R. had been taking stuff out of the bus and either 
throwing it away or carrying it with him up the hill. But the great 
bulk of their stuff still had not been touched, and in looking at it 
now D.R. felt suddenly inspired to pitch in then and there and clean 
it out once and for all. 
As soon as he decided that’s what he'd do, he felt instantly 
better, and better still when he started dumping junk out of the bus 
left and right. He spread their old stale sleeping bags on top of the 
bus to air. He dragged the mattress out and laid it on the grass in 
Leonard’s yard. He collected the worst of the actual trash, the 
empty bottles, old apple cores, old smashed Kentucky Fried 
Chicken boxes, paper cups, old magazines, and grubby old paper 
napkins, and threw it all outside in a pile. Beside it he piled an old 
quilt that had had a chocolate milkshake spilled on it, and a towel 
too far gone to preserve. A pair of his own worn-out jeans wound 
up on the pile. 
When he started coming to things he wasn’t sure what he should 
do with, he began a separate pile. He found one of Estelle’s blue 
sneakers, worn through at the little toe, laced with binder twine. 
He found a pair of her cut-off Levis, and three dirty socks. Ina 
pillow-case he found two of her special outfits, the gingham frontier 
dress, and the tie-dyed jumpsuit she’d made out of a mechanic's 
coveralls. He found their kitchen stuff in a box lined with the green 
sports section of the San Francisco Chronicle. The pots and pans 
and skillet and plastic plates and bowls were piled in with the 
Mazola Corn Oil, a box of salt, some spices in little cans, brown 
sugar in a jar, some old rice. He found their mangled copy of the 
Whole Earth Catalog, the paperback of Stranger In A Strange Land 
that Estelle had made so many notes in. And then, way back under 
the bed, face down on the floor, opened at the hexagram called 
Youthful Folly, D.R. found their ! 
1 Ching. 
Far out. 
The Ching. 
It was like running into an old friend. D.R. picked it up and 
dusted it off, and sat for a while holding it in his hand. He had been 
wishing for the Ching. It was time for him to start consulting it 
again. And maybe he could find some shit to order from the 
Catalog, too. The found books pleased D.R. enormously, and lifted 
him past the little desire that had begun to build in him to stop 
working on the bus and go flake out somewhere. D.R. was sudden- 
ly filled with tenderness and affection for Urge, and he went the 
whole way with his cleaning job. 
When he had emptied the bus completely, he went to Roxie’s 
house and borrowed a broom, and swept everywhere in the bus the 
broom could touch. Roxie showed him where the outdoor faucet 
was, and Leonard’s hosé. D.R. took the sleeping bags off the top, 
spread them out beside the mattress, and moved Urge until the 
hose-could reach. And then he washed him good, all over, inside 
and out, with soap and warm water from Roxie’s kitchen, and then 
a cold rinse with the hose. 
!t was the first bath Urge had had since 
the west coast, and you could tell by the sound of the motor how 
_ 
much the old bus dug it. When he went back in the store to get 
some cardboard boxes, Mrs. Godsey told him he could store any- 
thing he wanted to in her basement. D.R. spent the rest of the 
afternoon sorting through the stuff that he would keep, getting it 
into boxes, four of them, and then stacking the boxes on the floor 
of Mrs. Godsey’s basement. 
Leonard came home from another day with the Grand Jury in 
town as D.R. was finishing up and asked if he would like to stick 
around for supper. D.R. said no thanks. He had a whole new fund 
_ of energy now, and he wanted to get back up on the hill with it, 
and use it well. He gathered up his books and his groceries and set 
out whistling, back up Trace Fork again. 
rai 
Ra 
WEDNESDAY EVENING: THE BOOKS 
Whole Earth Catalog: Shit, man, | -want that. And that. And 
that! | want The Owner-Built Home. | want House Carpentry, 
Simplified. 
| want Domebook One. I want the Manual of Individual 
Water Supply Systems. | want Direct Use of The Sun's Energy. | 
want Electricity From The Wind. 
| want an Ashley stove. 
| want 
the Encyclopedia of Organic Gardening. | want Livestock and 
Poultry Production. 
| want Goat Husbandry. 
| want Human Use 
of The Earth. | want Rural Industry. | want Farmers of Forty 
Forty 
Centuries. 
| want a Corona Hand Mill. | want The New Religions. 
And | want Estelle to get here just as fast as she possibly can. 
(continued) 
Serendipity 
Learning 
