eae 
ute 
g 
_ The Image 
This book is by an economist enchanted with cybernetics. 
He’s after the organizing principle in life, the image the 
| everything comes together through. He scarcely mentions 
| the brain, and he’s right. It ain’t the brain. 
SB 
[Suggested by Martha Neufeld] 
| 
THE IMAGE 
The Image 
from: 
Kenneth 
E. Boulding 
The University of Michigan Press 
1956; 175 pp. 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
$1 .95 postpaid 
Cybernetics 
|McLuhan’s assertion that computers constitute an extension 
of the human nervous system is an accurate historical 
| statement. 
The research and speculation that led to computer 
_ design arose from investigation of healthy and pathological 
human response patterns embodied in the topological 
make-up of the nervous system. Insights here soon expanded 
into generalizations about communication that permitted the 
_ building of analagous electronic devices physically separate 
| from the Central Nervous System. But they’re just one artifact 
of these new understandings about communication. Society, 
| from organism to community to civilization to universe, is 
the domain of cybernetics. Norbert Wiener has the story, 
and to some extent, is the story. 
—SB 
Cybernetics — or Control and Communication in the 
imal and the Machine 
Norbert Wiener 
1948,1961;212 pp. 
$2.45 postpaid 
from: 
The M. |. T. Press 
Cambridge, Mass. 02142 
~ or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
. to the map maker. 
The meaning of a message is the change which it produces in 
the image. 
Between the incoming and outgoing messages lies the great inter- 
vening variable of the image. The outgoing messages are the result 
of the image, not the result of the incoming messages. The in- 
coming messages only modify the outgoing messages as they suc- 
ceed in modifying the image. 
z 
em 
| have never been to Australia. 
In my image of the world, however, 
it exists with 100 per cent certainty. 
If 1! sailed to the place where 
the map makers tell me it is and found nothing there but ocean | 
would be the most surprised man in the world. 
| hold to this part 
of my image with certainty, however, purely on authority. 
| have 
been to many other places which | have found on the map and | 
have:almost always found them there. 
It is interesting to inquire 
what gives the map this extraordinary authority, an authority 
greater than that of the sacred books of all religions. 
It is not an 
authority which is derived from any political power or from any 
charismatic experience. As far as! know it is not acrime against 
the state nor against religion to show a map that has mistakes in 
it. There is, however, a process of feedback from the users of maps 
There is a strong tendency for authoritarian organizations to use 
violence or the threat of violence in support of the role structure, 
that is, in order to gain acceptance of the role on the part of the 
persons occupying the lower role. 
For a time this may be suc- 
cessful im maintaining the organization. 
It is usually, however, 
self-defeating because of the corruption of the communication 
system which it entails. The case is somewhat analogous to that 
of the schizophrenic or the extreme paranoid. His sense receptors 
are so much “‘afraid’’ of him that they merely confirm the products 
of his heated imagination. The terrorized information sources of 
the tyrant likewise tell him only what they think will be pleasing 
to his ears. Organizations as well as individuals can suffer from 
hallucinations. 
It is the peculiar disease of authoritarian structures. 
To predict the future of a curve is to carry out a certain operation on 
its past. 
The central nervous system no longer appears as a self-contained 
organ, receiving inputs from the senses and discharging into the 
muscles. On the contrary, some of its most characteristic activities 
are explicable only as circular processes, emerging from the nervous 
system into the muscles, and re-entering the nervous system through 
the sense organs, whether they be proprioceptors or organs of the 
special:senses. This seemed to us to mark a new step in the study 
of that part of neurophysiology which concerns not solely the 
elementary processes of nerves and synapses but the performance of 
the nervous system as an integrated whole. 
The feedback of voluntary activity is of this nature. We do not will 
the motions of certain muscles, and indeed we generally do not 
know which muscles are to be moved to accomplish a given task; 
we will, say, to pick up a cigarette. Our motion is regulated by some 
measure of the amount by which it has not yet been accomplished. 
| have spoken of the race. This is really too broad a term for the 
scope of most communal information. Properly speaking, the 
communitv extends only so far as there extends an effectual 
transmission of information. 
It is possible to give a sort of measure 
to this by comparing the number of decisions entering a group from 
outside with the number of decisions made in the group. We can thus 
measure the autonomy of the group. A measure of the effective size 
of a group is given by the size which it must have to~have achieved a 
certain stated degree of autonomy. 
Thus small, closely knit communities have a very considerable measure 
of homeostasis; and this, whether they are highly literate communities 
in a civilized country or villages of primitive savages. Strange and even 
repugnant as the customs of many barbarians may seem to us, they 
generally have a very definite homeostatic value, which it is part of the 
function of anthropologists to interpret. 
It is only in the large 
community, where the Lords of Things as They Are protect themselves 
from hunger by wealth, from public opinion by privacy and anonymity, 
from private criticism by the laws of libel and the possession of the 
means of communication, that ruthlessness can reach its most sublime 
levels. Of all of these anti-homeostatic factors in society, the control 
of the means of communication is the most effective and most 
important. 
The mongoose begins with a feint, which provokes the snake to strike. 
The mongoose dodges and makes another such feint, so that we have 
a rhythmical pattern of activity on the part of the two animals. 
However, this dance is not static but develops progressively. As it 
goes on, the feints of the mongoose come earlier and earlier in phase 
with respect to the darts of the cobra, until finally the mongoose 
attacks when the cobra is extended and not ina position to move 
rapidly. This time the mongoose’s attack is not a feint but a deadly 
accurate bite through the cobra’s brain. 
In other words, the snake’s pattern of action is confined to single 
darts, each one for itself, while the pattern of the mongoose’s action 
involves an appreciable, if not very long, segment of the whole past 
of the fight. To this extent the mongoose acts like a learning machine, 
and the real deadliness of its attack is dependent on a much more 
highly organized nervous system. 
To use a biological analogy, the parallel system had a better 
. 
homeostasis than the series system and therefore survived, while 
the series system eliminated itself by natural selection. 
We thus see that a non-linear interaction causing the attraction of 
frequency can generate a self-organizing system. 
. 
. 
. 
At the other extreme, democratic structures in which there is no 
adequate leadership, that is, in which the feedback is destructive 
of the decision-making process on the part of higher roles are like- 
wise unstable and incapable of maintaining themselves. 
If discus- 
sion is to be a successful process of decision-making it must exhibit 
a degree of convergence toward common images of the whole organ- 
ization, 
If the feedback from the followers destroys the image of 
the leader instead of merely modifying it, the process is likely to 
be self-defeating. 
The image acts as a field. The behavior consists in gravitating 
toward the most highly valued part of the field. 
!t does not 
follow from this, however, that the consequences of behavior 
are in conformity with the image which produced them. 
Dis- 
appointment and surprise are a common lot of both organisms 
and organizations. We behave according to some image of the 
consequences of our acts. When, however, these consequences 
are reflected in information fed back to us, we find very often 
that beedback does not confirm the original image. Under these 
circumstances, as we have seen, the image may be modified or 
it may not. 
e 
In tracing the effect of images on the course of history, peculiar 
attention must be paid to the images of time and especially the 
~ 
images of the future. Curiously enough, it may not-be so much 
the actual content of the image of the future which is important 
in its effect, but its general quality of optimism or pessimism, 
certainty or uncertainty, breadth or narrowness. 
The person or 
the nation that has a date with destiny goes somewhere, though not 
usually to the address on the label. The individual or the nation 
which has no sense of direction in time, no sense of aclear future 
ahead is likely to be vacillating, uncertain in behavior, and to have 
a poor chance of surviving. Those images of the future which are 
most persistent and which have had the greatest impact on human 
history seem to be those which are impenetrable to feedback and 
which maintain themselves by their own internal beauty and 
consistency. 
OBJECTIVELY 
Objectively, here’s what happened: 
D. R. crawled under the 
ruins of the old coal tipple and about fifty yards back into the old 
abandoned mine. 
And there in the dark and the moist cool he went ahead and 
freaked out completely. 
That really happened. 
Late that afternoon, Leonard, Mrs. Godsey’s son, decided he'd 
walk up Trace Fork and see how Emmit and his nephew were get- 
ting along after their first day together. Leonard had been going up 
to see Emmit every day or two since he’d been sick. Even before he 
was sick he went up just to visit Emmit a couple of times a week, 
to take him the things he needed, and talk a while, and now and 
then to sip a little moonshine with him, or wine that Leonard’s 
cousin Danie! made. 
And now the nephew was there, and Leonard thought he’d just 
stroll up and say hello, and see if they needed anything. 
And found D. R., filthy dirty, sitting in the weeds there by the 
fallen timbers of the tipple of the old Blair Brothers mine. 
He looked like a casualty of war. 
If it had beén anybody besides Leonard that found D. R. like 
that they would almost certainly have handled it wrongly. Probably 
they would have run to the nearest telephone and called the doctor, 
and maybe even the magistrate. But Leonard was a very special 
man. 
In ways his old mother who admired him so could never in a 
hundred years imagine or believe, Leonard was a very special man. 
A lot is said about Leonard by the fact that he could appreciate 
and be friends with a man as strange and eccentric as Emmit Collier. 
There were people around who thought of Emmit as actually crazy, 
but they would never have said so around Leonard, because they 
knew Leonard would defend Emmit, and not many people were 
inclined to argue with Leonard, or contradict him. Not that they 
were afraid. Leonard did not inspire fear in anyone. Trust was the 
feeling most people had toward Leonard. Trust, and confidence in 
him as an honest man, and strong. 
He was the kind of man, the kind of mountaineer, who inevit- 
ably makes sergeant in the military, simply because it is so apparent 
to everybody around from private to Captain that he’s the man for 
the stripes. The assumption happens automatically in the minds of 
everybody who’s looking. Some men are just born with the qualities 
it takes to impress other men asa 
leader, and Leonard was one of 
them. During World War Two he served four years and five months 
in the Army, and came out a First Sergeant, with a year and a half 
in grade. 
| mention these details about Leonard to give some indication 
of the kind of fellow he was. His story is as rich and complex as 
Emmit’s or D- R.’s,-and it will have to be told some day. But for 
now, let this much be enough, and observe him as he deals with his 
bizarre discovery of Emmit’s nephew, sitting bewildered and 
filthy by a pile of rotting logs half-way up a creek that except for 
one old man has been abandoned by humankind. 
Leonard speaks to D. R. gently, and looks into his eyes. 
e 
D. R. looks back into Leonard’s eyes, and when Leonard says 
who he is, D. R. recognizes him, and understands where he is. 
Image & Control 
Communications 
