Communes 
I'd call this the hardest-working, most effective of the 
commune publications. More than others it fosters variety, 
it carries detailed reports from working communes, it gets 
into substantial how-to information. 
It’s British, with right 
worldly perspective. 
—SB 
Communes 
$4.50 /yr, $7.50 airmail 
from: 
Commune Movement 
Bit, 
141 Westbourne Park Road 
London W11 
England 
Not an Escape but a Confrontation 
in an amplifier negative feedback is applied to improve the stability 
and the quality. This is done by taking a sample of the output and 
applying it in opposition at the input. 
!t is very effective and its 
only disadvantages are, it lowers the gain slightly and necessitates 
a feedback loop. 
This may be used in analogy when considering the function of a 
commune in society. The aim is the betterment of society, the 
isolation from society is very relative and more geographical and 
cultural than economic. 
When an individual becomes disenchanted with society he tends to 
become a floater, society waste, as he no longer contributes: 
he 
drops out. This dropping out allows a period of quiet, a first taste 
Dune 
Dune /s rich re-readable fantasy with clear portrayal of the 
fierce environment it takes to cohere a community. 
The 
metaphor is ecology. 
The theme revolution, the hard-won 
return to balance. 
—SB 
Dune 
Frank Herbert 
1965; 544 pp. 
$1.50 postpaid 
from: 
Ace Books, Inc. 
1120 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, N. ¥Y. 10036 
or WHOLE EARTH CATAI_OG 
“These things are so ancient within us,’ Paul said, ‘‘that they’re ground 
into each separate cell of our bodies. We’re shaped by such forces. 
You can say to yourself, ‘Yes, | see how such a thing may be.’ But 
when you look inward and confront the raw force of your own life 
unshielded, you see your peril, You see that this could overwhelm 
you. The greatest peril to the Giver is the force that takes. The 
greatest peril to the Taker is the force that gives. 
It’s as easy to be 
overwhelmed by giving as by taking.” 
“And you, my son,” Jessica asked, ‘‘are you one who gives or one 
who takes?” 
“I'm at the fulcrum,” he said. “’| cannot give without taking and | 
cannot take without...” He broke off. 
New Alchemy Institute 
Here is a fantasy proposing to integrate solar heating, 
aquaculture, and agriculture in projects in New Mexico and 
the tropics. 
Technologically knowledgeable. 
The booklet 
probably costs something from: 
The New Alchemy Institute, East 
Box 432 
or 
Woods Hole, Massachusetts 02543 
Box 376, Pescadero, CA 94060 
Fraser Darling, in his perceptive studies of remote Scottish peoples, 
showed how self-sufficiency was a positive force in their lives. The 
most independent communities were far more diverse and socially 
alive than the single industry towns and those heavily dependent 
ona 
life-line to the outside. He also found that they coped far 
better in their dealings with the world at large. Equally important, 
the independent communities cared for their environment and were 
less prone to despoil it for short term monetary gain. 
1 
Schemes 
Community 
See Epilog, page 488 ” Aquaculture’ 
REFLECTED SUNLIGHT 
~ of freedom— freedom from the duties imposed from without. 
Duties from parents, teachers, employers and society-in-the-mass. 
This kind of freedom is enjoyed for a while until further disen- 
chantment occurs, being a limited freedom and realisation of this 
brings about the discontent. 
To enter into society once again in such a sensitive state would be 
self-ruinous and self-effacing. To do this is accepting defeat and 
once again to run with the herd resulting in a half-hearted way of 
life once again, but more conscious sorrow. The alternative is to 
form your own closed circuit of life—sustaining activity, to have 
a creative aim. 
Not knowing how one can fit into society in a creative manner a 
further period of quietude is necessary, but one in which the struggle 
for survival doesn’t become all encompassing. To do this one must 
become economically independent and the purest way to this end 
is to live without luxury, with sufficiency and no more. This can 
be done most effectively in a group and naturally in a group 
entertaining a similar search would be the ideal. 
A community. 
Eventually people covering such a protracted project will 
mature into their own creative mood and a suitable mode of 
activity will surely result. Such an individual will then know his 
own most effective life-loving waywardness and on returning to 
society will not be caught up in the swirl of events but will be 
able to produce real individual action, from within what he has 
created as himself, instead of outside influenced micro-patterns of 
society-at-large. 
This is negative feedback, though its net result is positive. 
A mental institution provides positive feedback. As its small out- 
put reinforces the original input and causes excessive diharmonious 
action resulting in an unstable society of low quality. 
Modern Utopian 
Alternate Society 
These two seem to just barely stagger along from issue to 
issue. Modern Utopian /s American, somewhat theoretical, 
and occasional source of useful news from particular 
communes. 
Alternate Society is Canadian, somewhat 
political, an occasional source of useful news from particular 
communes. 
Both rely heavily on reprints. 
—SB 
Modern Utopian 
_ 
Dick Fairfield, ed. 
$10 /yr (quarterly, plus other stuff) 
from: 
Alternatives! 
P.O. Drawer A 
Diamond Heights Station 
San Francisco, CA 94131 
See Epitog, page 578 
é 
“Community Publications 
Alternate Society 
Co-operative’’ 
Gary, ed. 
$5 /12 issues 
from: 
Alternate Society 
47 Riverside Dr. 
Welland, Ontario 
Canada 
Perhaps the largest area yet to be settled in North America is 
Northern Ontario, comprising over 360,000 square miles of territory 
with a population of only a little more than half a million. Northern 
Ontario is as varied in terrain as it is large in size. Covering some 
1000 miles between the Provinces of Quebec and Manitoba, and 
extending north from North Bay to James and Hudon’s Bay, 
Northern Ontario is a land of tens of thousands of clear lakes, 
rugged hills of Precambrian rock, endless tracts of timber and an 
almost limitless freedom to exercise ones own abilities in Creating a 
better life. 
: 
While much of Northern Ontario is unsuited to any kind of agri- 
culture, being either too cold or rocky, numerous areas exist within 
Northern Ontario that offer excellent possibilities. One such area 
is NEAR NORTH. The “‘near north” or southern extremity of 
Northern Ontario is approx 300 miles wide, covering the distance 
from Ottawa River on the east to Lake Superior in the west and 
extending for 50 miles north and south of that line. Largely low- 
land, many tracts of good farmable land exist, and in some places, 
have been developed. The entire area is well served by all forms of 
transportation and has within its boundries, one third of Northern 
Ontario's population. 
; 
Alternate Society 
WINTER GARDEN GALLERIES 
— 
COMBINING SUNLIGHT CONCENTRATION, EARTH HEAT 
RETENTION, HEAT FROM DECOMPOSITION OF COMPOST 
AND MINIMIZATION OF HEAT LOST TO THE WINTER SKY 
CEILING AND UPPER SIDES OF GALLERY 
COVERED WITH REFLECTIVE FOIL 
§ 
aye, 
DIRECT WINTER SUNLIGHT 
‘\. REFLECTIVE APRON 
», ALUMINUM FOIL ON 
~ 
AREA RECEIVING - 
DIRECT SUNLIGHT 
AREA RECEIVING 
Tentative Group 
The Tentative Group has run into difficulties and no longer exists 
as a group. 
FISH-FARMING COMMUNES 
This is a suggestion only, as yet, so | will open up the discussion of 
the idea’s value as | see it. There are three big factors: 
(a) For those 
interested in rural communities, reasonable arable land is or can be 
expensive— as we all know who owns the wealth and it ain’t us— 
taking it off them may require revolutionary force— but there is 
something ohe can do quite cheaply (by comparison) in the mean- 
while, as part of the process. 
(b) There is a world food shortage 
(or at least a ‘’Third-World’’ food shortage; we should grow more of 
| 
our own in Europe and import less from outside. 
(c) There are, in 
this country, many hundreds of smaller streams, still unpolluted on 
cheaply available semi-moorland ground (even near industrial areas) 
which with a series of small dams that would drown a minimal 
amount of the natural'environment, would make an excellent 
cooperative fishing industry. Fish ponds are very important in 
_ 
the food economy of thickly populated countries like China, Japan 
and Indonesia. 
If you're one of those vegetarian extremists who 
don’t believe in eating fish, the best fed parts of the World are those 
who have access to large scale fishing resources, i.e., Kerala in India, 
Coastal China, the Greek Islands, and the sea-going parts of 
Western Europe. The ancient Celts used to belie= ve ‘gods’ lived 
in the sea and that to kill fish was a dire act of sacrilege; this 
belief died out, not only because of religious changes, but because 
human population increase meant that land resources available 
were inadequate for supporting it by themselves! 
In-economics, Sun Hill received some money through donations, but 
by far the bulk of its income came from the performing of “outside 
jobs, either individually or in groups. 
Most of the money earned was pooled. Members contributed what 
they could and drew what they needed. Petty cash was kept— at 
the inspiration of Heinlein's Stranger in a Strange Land— inan 
“open box by the main door, from which members took what they 
required, and recorded on a wall-hung paper what they had spent, 
and for what they had spent it. Though. this door-box system may 
~ 
be ideal in a situation as described in ‘‘Stranger”’ (where money was 
incoming freely and in adequate surplus of needs) our meager 
income (and the resultant need for tighter budgeting) eventually 
forced the curtailment of this practice. We had resolved that each 
adult member be entitled to receive a minimum of $2/week “‘per- 
sonal money” for purchases exclusive of necessities. Actually 
this was rarely dared to be drawn from the precarious amounts of 
money on hand. 
One might conjecture that great and hot disputes arose from so 
casual and communal a system of sharing money, but somehow they 
did not. 
| suppose this was because, in our zeal for Community, 
such matters were not given great weight, and each member was 
fairly conscientious and reasonable in his handling of his finances. 
Initially, little effort was made to accurately anticipate expenses 
and make assurances of sufficient income to meet them. Money 
was simply spent as needed until it was gone, and then everything 
waited until more was available. No ‘,reserve’’ was ever attempted, 
and unexpected large bills (such as auto repairs) usually auto- 
; 
matically meant going further into debt. Eventually, we evolved 
an adequate system of accounting and financial planning. Money 
was segregated for different anticipated uses. We could then be 
assured that, when an urgent (anticipated) expense came up, the 
money earned for it was unspent. Money that was spent was noted 
on the ‘,expense” sheet and, at the end of the month, broken down 
into categories to help us anticipate future needs in each category. 
At the beginning of the month, projected income and outgo for 
the coming month was compared, and our money-earning-and- 
spending activities adjusted to suit. 
Sun Hill’s most successful economic ploy was not 
in making money: 
but in contriving not to spend it. Monetary expenses were generally 
contained by obtaining our material needs in as crude and unpro- 
cessed form as possible, supplying our own labor wherever possible, 
and— largely— by simply doing without. 
Were it not for the 
savings thus realized (and the collectivization of consumption) 
Sun Hill would have undoubtedly “‘gone under” financially, for 
income was always meager. 
Modern Utopian 
A Clue That Communes Are Real 
. 
e 
; 
Have you noticed that recent commune life in various areas 
of the U.S. is strongly reminiscent of Indian life in those 
places? The political lroquois and Cherokees of the East 
Coast. The easy-going defenseless West Coast Indians. 
The 
structural, mystical pueblos of New Mexico. 
—SB 
