Apocalypse juggernaut, hello 
_ As if the spirits of our ancestors weren’t trouble enough, 
now we’re haunted by the ghosts of our descendants. 
Ken Kesey claims that ecology is the current handy smoke- 
screen for everybody's Dire Report—the voice of white- 
eyed paranoia. Gary Snyder (strong proponent of population 
contro!) when told of an Earth of solid people impending 
soon, commented dreamily “think of all that consciousness.” 
1 tend to view the whole disaster as an opportunity to try 
stuff. /f you take all the surprise-free projections for 
mankind's near future and connect them up, they lead 
neat as you please right into the dead end meat grinder. 
The only Earth we had, used up. 
Unless there are surprises. Which is what we're here for. 
The Standard Operating Out, when a species is in a bind, 
is to diversify. Multiply alternatives. 
1f you don’t know 
what's coming, the way to evolve ahead of the changes is 
. to try everything. 
Reasonable laws made by reasonable men in reasonable 
times proscribe trying everything. For a good reason: 
| people get hurt trying stuff. If you’re bound to try stuff 
anyway, then either you’re working directly for City 
Hall or you're an outlaw, or both. 
Buckminster Fuller: 
“It surprises people when you tell them that 
since the last ice age three-quarters of the earth has 
been water, and of the one-quarter that is land very 
little has been lived on. Ninety-nine percent of 
humanity has lived on only about five per cent of 
__ 
the earth, and anyone who went outside of it—the 
_ 
tiny minority that went to sea, for example—immed- 
iately found himself outside the law. And the whole 
development of technology has been in the outlaw 
area, where you're dealing with the toughness of nature. 
| find this fascinating and utterly true. All improvement 
has to be made in the outlaw area. You can’t reform 
man, and you can’t improve his situation where he is. 
But when you've made things so good out there in the 
outlaw area that they can’t help being recognized, then 
gradually they get assimilated.’’ 
[From Calvin Tomkin’s profile of Fuller, ‘In the Outlaw 
Area’, The New Yorker, Jan. 8, 1966] 
: 
Present outlaw areas include space, the oceans, mountains, 
desert, northwoods and tundra, jungle, and then places 
like molecular biology, your mind, and other state-of-the- 
art frontiers whose languages are still foreign to lawmakers. 
| One thing we need is better outlaws. 
The antidote to 
Est 
» New York, N.Y. 10019 
external routine is internal routine, not sloppiness. 
The 
finding and following of your own drum. 
Help save the 
world: do something wrong today. Do it today because 
time is short, and capable outlaws aren’t made overnight. 
| Is it a contradiction to design an outlaw area? In the past 
there was always undesignable frontier to serve, some space 
_left over or not reached yet. If we run out of that resource, 
can we synthesize it, or intentionally preserve it?. Or will 
_ it spontaneously bubble back up in the middle of our cities? 
(Oh yes.) | suggest that we must give the devil his due or 
he will surely extract it. 
se 
Any 
design fantasy is just loose talk until it happens. Here’s 
one. 
; 
: 
—SB 
A more creative than usual call to political action. 
Est— The Steersman Handbook 
L. Clark Stevens 
1970; 142 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
from: 
Bantam Books, Inc. 
666 Fifth Avenue 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Xs 
The definition of revolution, ‘the overthrow or renunciation of one 
|) government or ruler and the substitution of another’’ does not accord 
with the present continuum of events. The upheaval in America 
today provides a chaoti¢ surf upon which would-be revolutionaries 
| 
steal wild rides, but to define the upheaval as revolution is to fail to 
_ discern its essence. 
It is not organized. 
It has no plan. 
It has no 
_ doctrine. There is no pattern, no structure— 
no leaders and no 
followers. 
It happens. It /s. 
; 
e 
Guidance System 
To the degree that a corporation serves the purposes of its 
Original founder, it tends to be ““humanoid."’ Mr. Post cared very 
much about Postum and personally mixed, sipped and tasted the 
product as his personal substitute for coffee. Henry Ford | spent 
much of his early life under the hood of the Model T and would 
tolerate no compromise in its design. Walt Disney held exact 
) 
standards for his cartoon characters, and Land of Land Cameras, 
Loose Talk-1: The Outlaw Area 
The specific fantasy called OUTLAW AREA isa 
geographical place where anything goes. Let's say it’s 
an island. 
For society it functions as a human dumping station. 
When a guy gets a jail sentence he has the choice of 
serving the sentence or being deported to the Island. He 
can’t come back for some specific period of time, or he 
must meet some bureaucratic criteria to return, or the 
expulsion is permanent. Yessir, put all the bad apples 
in one bad-apple barrel. 
For the individual it serves as an always possible alter- 
native to the situation he’s in. He can simply split for 
the Island and take his chances there. No one’s-going 
to try to get him back. 
For evolution it’s an open end, a place for other stuff 
to happen. High energy, minimum prior form, violent 
range of constant inputs; it should be wild. ‘In wildness 
is the preservation of the world.” 
It’s difficult to imagine how it would be in the Outlaw 
Area. You can project some from the history of Australia, 
once a penal colony, or from the present underworld. 
Robert Heinlein has a book about the Moon as a penal 
colony called The Moon is a Harsh Mistress. 
\t's kind of 
nice: they have a revolution and throw the jailers out. 
Depending on the size of the island, my expectation would 
be either a dictatorship or warfare of rival gangs, like in old 
China, warlords. Maybe not though. This is a different age. 
The Island might become an Aquarian haven for the most 
useful pioneers—the cream and the dregs of society, (Kesey’s 
notion) bending reality off into unimaginable directions 
with no restrictions save the harsh ones of nature. 
Aquarian Haven 
Photo from ‘Open Land: 
a manifesto’ published recently for defense of the commune at Wheeler Ranch, Box 81, Bodega Bay, CA 94923. 
Participates to this day in Polaroid product as a knowledgeable 
_inventor. Most of these originators incorporate for “tax purposes 
and limitation of legal liability’’ which means that the corporation, 
- 
a structural device designed to process money, is applied to the 
business of producing and selling the product. The actual kind 
of product is not crucial to the corporate structure. For example, 
conglomerates diversify and service many products under a single, 
overall, corporate control. Thus, we see that the corporate 
structure serves as processing system and the originator serves as 
guidance system. When the originators, men personally and 
primarily concerned with the product, retire, die off or sell out, 
the guidance system which they embody is altered and in their 
stead the processing mechanism gradually dominates direction 
of production. To maintain apparent continuity of original 
guidance, the founder's name is often perpetuated through heirs, if 
available. 
In time, however, processing functions tend to over-ride 
guidance functions. Thus the original guidance system loses 
primary control. Driven now by its inherent responsiveness to 
profit and loss, the corporation ‘‘homes’’ toward-money as 
ultimate target. The product becomes more-and more of an 
incidental, a sort of ‘‘necessary evil’’ which is merely the vehicle 
for financial gain. This fact is plainly visible in the massive cor- 
porations of today wherein directors are rarely creator-inventors. 
Most of the originators have been replaced by money-managers, 
_ 
financiers, lawyers and accountants. 
In contrast, smaller business 
tend to retain the originator and, thereby, retain the ‘‘personal 
touch.” 
It is time for the Movement to defend the U.S. Constitution which 
is theirs by right of birth. Not a symbol like a flag or a great seal 
or other patriotic emblem, the Constitution is the original struc- 
ture designed to guarantee the unstructured freedom of peaceful 
individuals. Defense of the Constitution is defense of the indi- 
vidual. 
Free U.S. citizens are not rights-beggars. Rights are not 
' gifts given by governments. Defense of the individual is the de- 
fense of inalienable human rights: Peace, Love and Freedom. The 
Movement can achieve coalition within the widest disparity if it 
recognizes that in the Constitution there exists a chart by which to 
navigate continuous change. This does not suggest a global appli- 
cation, but for America, in the coming decade of conflict, it 
provides valid, familiar and necessary articles of freedom. 
But ten or fifteen miles later D.R. grew so doubtful that it 
was right he stopped and backtracked again. 
It just couldn’t 
be the right road. The farther he went the narrower it got, and 
there wasn’t a house or a roadsign on it. D.R. went back to the 
crossroads, pulled off into the gravels and looked around inside 
the bus for a roadmap of Kentucky. 
There wasn’t one, of course. There must have been a dozen 
roadmaps scattered around, including one of the Eastern United 
States that showed the freeways in Kentucky. But for driving on 
the local roads away from the traffic mainstream there wasn’t 
a map in the bus that showed the way and that pissed D.R. off 
and scared him at the same time. 
His first impulse was to blame Estelle. At about the moment 
he realized he wasn’t going to find a Kentucky roadmap he came 
across Estelle’s knitting bag in a pile of stuff behind the driver's 
seat. 
In his mind the knitting bag, and its owner, seemed to be 
responsible for there being no Kentucky roadmaps. 
In a fury he 
grabbed the bag and flung it out Urge’s side door. Some of the 
yarn fell out and tangled up around D.R.’s feet. In trying to get 
it off he tied his hands up in it for a second and that almost drove 
him crazy. He screamed through his teeth and started flinging 
things left and right. When he came to something that felt like 
Estelle’s he tried to throw it out the door, but most of it caught 
on the door facing and piled up at the foot of the bed. D.R. 
picked up his cassette recorder and almost threw it too, but he 
caught himself and turned it on instead. The voice of the Greek 
filled the bus and flowed out into the night, uttering for the first 
time in the history of the Kentucky mountains the names of 
Ouspensky and Gurdjief. D.R. shouted “Fuck Ouspensky and 
Gurdjief,”” and threw the recorder hard against the back of the 
bus. The Greek groaned and spoke like Donald Duck for a second, 
then died. 
(continued) 
Outlaw 
Community 233 
as 
