Children’s Books 
} 
| 
} 
| Asan old children’s book buff (I grew up ina family of four kids 
‘in which we read aloud every evening, and have a heavy-reading 
_ bunch of four kids myself) | feel moved to respond to your San 
| Diego correspondent who in the January issue asks for ‘‘any sort 
| of literature for our kids that doesn’t constitute total propaganda 
_ for the establishment set.’’ First, though, I’d have to say that | 
_ don’t think it is possible-to do very well on her’specific request 
| for stuff on families other than the Standard American model, 
| since the books on “other kinds’ of families (eg Reba Mirsky’s 
| Thirty-One Brothers and Sisters, Lois Lenski’s stories about Okies 
| and such) which are available and often not bad are written by people 
_ who are outsiders to the life they write about and have that flat and 
faintly didactic quality which goes with that. There are some auto- 
biographies from other cultures which | rémember liking (Youel B. 
Mirza, Children of the Rooftops, Younghill Kang, The Happy Grove, 
Mme Sugimoto, A Daughter of the Samurai, Camara Laye, The 
| 
Dark Child, Wright's Black Boy) but none of the ones | think of are 
for young children. 
I'd imagine that the main thing she wants and 
what we generally want is something which encourages kids to be 
open and to grow into the kinds of grown-ups who can laugh and cry 
and wonder. Now having, as is customary, re-defined the question to 
| 
suit the answer | have, | will make some suggestions along those lines. 
) 
Just things which come to mind. 
lf my list has an idiosyncratic character, so would any child's. For 
kids not only have their individual tastes but also use particular books 
_ for some particular thing in that book which speaks to their particular 
condition. One of mine, for example, loved a book by Robert 
| McCloskey called Blueberries for Sal which is about a bear mother 
-and child and human mother and child getting scrambled and then 
brought back together properly again, and at a time of great stress 
(she'd had to have part of a finger sewed back on) had it read over 
and over. She would wake at night crying, and | would hit her with 
the Blueberries for Sal, and she'd go back to sleep comforted. Also, 
kids, like grown-ups, like from time to time to rest or rot their 
minds with trash. 
Anyway, some suggestions. 
| 
First, for pretty young kids: 
Ruth Krauss’ Bears is perfect play, and her book The Big World and 
the Little House is a beautiful statement about being at home in the 
world, 
Antonio Frasconi’s multi-lingual woodblock picture books See and. 
‘Say and More See and Say are extraordinary, and even nicer is The 
Snow and the Sun. 
_ 
to parents who think of themselves as advanced, but | think should be 
looked at. The best known is of course The Story of Peter Rabbit 
~ 
but some others are more interesting. 
| like especially The Tailor 
of 
| About ten years ago a story went around that a beatnik 
' girl in Sausalito wrote to Ezra Pound and asked him how - 
to write poetry. Pound replied promptly. “Read Indian 
| Tales by Jaime de Angulo. It is how.’’ 
De Angulo was a linguist at Berkeley, a bohemian person- 
_ ality in early Big Sur, and a good friend to the primitive’ 
Pit River Indians in Northern California. (His challenge to 
the notion of primitive may be found in his excellent 
article “Indians in Overalls’, reprinted in The Hudson 
' Review Anthology, Vintage, 1967). He wrote these 
stories for his children. They are made from odds and ends 
_ of his experiences with Indian stories, language, lore, and 
“mysterious occasions. They are the best children’s stories 
_ | know, and they are more simply Indian than anything 
else I’ve read. 
va 
| 
-(KPFA in Berkeley has superb tapes of De Angulo 
reading the stories. 
Maybe they’ve decomposed by now. 
nA 
i 
If they were made into a record set, I’d buy them ina 
—SB 
minute.) 
“Indian Tales 
_ Jaime de Angulo 
1962; 246pp. 
$3.45 postpaid 
from: 
|| Hill & Wang 
| 
72 5th Avenue 
) New York, N.Y. 10011 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
ih 
“don’t want to, | DON’T WANT TO. 
_| want to be a Fox.” 
| don’t want to be a MAN; 
"Oh, the Ha-Has again. You are reverting.” 
| The tiny, precise books by Beatrix Potter may seem too old-fashioned. 
Gloucester. 
(Beatrix Potter was a terribly cooped-up Victorian clergy- 
man’s daughter who wrote and illustrated these stories to keep alive; 
late in life she married, happily, and never wrote another line. Women’s 
Lib take note.) 
Maurice Sendak’s Where the Wild Things Are is preferred by the 
Cambridge types. 
I’m not sure if you can get in the U. S. Tove Jansson's The Book 
About Moomin, Mymble and Little My, but if you can get it you'll 
be amazed: 
Finnish surrealism. 
Dr. Seuss, as is well known, writes splendid nonsense; for me, the 
one which comes off best is /f I Ran the Circus. 
For somewhat older children: 
All the books by Laura Ingalls Wilder are wonderful. They should 
probably be read more or less in order, not only because they follow 
the chronology of her own life (they are autobiography) but because 
the scale of vision in each is that of the age level represented. The 
first one, The Little House in the Big Woods, is in its own way a 
sort of child’s Whole Earth thing anyhow, full of careful descriptions 
of such things as how to make a smoke house and smoke meat in it 
and how to make a wood-and-leather door latch. My favorite of the 
lot is The Little House on the Prairie; the chapter in that on ‘‘Indians 
Going Away” is for me one of the most perfect pieces of writing in 
English for any audience. 
E. B. White's Charlotte’s Web is a wonderful book about the basic 
things——friendship, death and birth. 
Randall Jarrell’s The Bat Poet is a fine book about being a poet and 
has some great bat poetry; his The Animal Family is also the real 
stuff. 
Saint Exupery’s The Little Prince one might think is really for grown- 
ups, but my kids like it. 
P. S. Beagle, The Last Unicorn. So sad. 
Tolkien, of course. 
Three books which we have loved which might not go for kids who 
don’t know New York, are Jean Merrill’s The Pushcart War (guerilla 
warfare against trucks) Doris Plenn’s The Green Song (about being a 
Puerto Rican, in this case a frog, in New York) and George Selden’s 
The Cricket in Times Square (on being alive at all in New York.) 
Two very old-fashioned books.which might or might not go for 
some kids in this age are Frances Hodgson Burnett's The Secret 
Garden which is about a couple of terribly neurotic kids growing 
into health by working together to make a garden come back to 
life, and George MacDonald's 
At the Back of the North Wind which 
is a terribly strange book, | guess metaphorically about death. 
Selma Lagerlof’s The Wonderful Adventures of Nils; travelling 
around Scandinavia with a flock of wild geese. 
Some children like fairy stories and some don't. Those who do 
usually need a big supply; readily available in paper are the red, 
blue, pink etc. fairy books. The stories of Hans Andersen are 
usually listed as fairy stories, but of course they are something 
else than ’‘tales.”’ 
Fox was laughing. He said, ‘Seriously, Oriole, why did we grow up 
so fast? Only yesterday, when we began our story and | started to 
see the world with my father, who was then areal Bear... .”” 
Oriole interrupted.’ ‘‘No, you are mistaken. He was not a real Bear 
yet, he wasonly a beginning of a bear, he was a person-bear. Now he 
is 
abearman—! mean aman-bear...] mean...” 
“Oh, keep quiet. You are getting 
me all mixed up again.” 
“No, Fox, listen to me; | will explain. The man who is telling 
our story, it’s his fault, he has done something wrong with the 
machinery of time, he has let it go too fast. You see, he was 
supposed to take a million years to tell our story. The poor fellow, 
he is too old, he gets all mixed up. He should go and take a rest in 
the country for a while.” 
“Oh, my, my, my!” sighed the Fox, ‘’the only thing to do is to 
start again RIGHT AT THE BEGINNING.” Fox looked curiously at 
Oriole. ‘’What do you mean, 
a MILLION years?’’ 
‘smoke: hole 
Ite chitd 
Jo explain 2 winter-hovse of 
the large 
communal hype 
dug partly underground 
“Why, | mean an infinity of time, just as Tsimmu was telling in his 
story of the creation of the world, Don’t you remember? Ten times 
ten times ten times ten years, molossi molossi molossi tellim 
piduuwi. When Cocoon Man was floating around in nothing but air 
and fog he waited a million years for that cloud to come near 
enough so he could jump on it.”” 
“Yes,"' said Fox. ‘‘Yes, just like Marum‘da, who made the world and 
then he went to sleep. That's an infinity of time, but it must stop 
somewhere—it can’t go on forever. It must stop somewhere.” 
Oriole asked, “WHY? “" 
Fox thought a moment then he said, ‘’| dunno. But listen, Oriole, 
what's time anyway?” 
Oriole said, ‘Why, it’s ten times ten times ten times ten years. What 
else do you want it to be?” 
Fox said, “I dunno, | guess it’s growing old.” 
Oriole said, “‘All right, then, some people grow old faster than others. 
You know that yourself. Just as some people walk faster than others. 
It all depends on who is looking at it.”’ 
“Why, Oriole, you are crazy. It depends on who is walking, not on 
the man who is looking at the fellow who is walking.” 
“No, certainly NOT. 
Look at that man over there walking. He 
seems to be just crawling along, but if you were close to him, 
he would be going much faster. That's the way with the man who 
is telling this story, Sometimes he is closer and sometimes he is 
farther away, so for him that makes us go faster or slower.” 
Fox said, “‘Oriole, you drive me crazy. Now | don’t know whether 
| am standing on.my head or my feet. It’s like that time when we 
first met you and your father.”’ 
Then there are the Homeric epics. For kids | like best the Giant 
Golden Book of the Iliad and the Odyssey. 
| have burst into tears 
reading aloud the Iliad to a little boy who was mystified (and 
re-reading Simone Weill’s ‘“The Iliad: The Poem of Force’ knew 
why it made me cry.) 
Some really good coltections of poetry are: 
Herbert Read’s This 
Way Delight; Dunning (ed) Reflections on a Gift of Watermelon 
Pickle (can be got in paper, but the photographic illustrations are 
so good the hard cover is worth it if you can afford it) and 
C. F. Moule’s Miracles (poems by children.) 
Carl Sandburg’s poems, 
Wind Song can be got in paper. 
Having listed all this fantasy, | would like to cite also one very good 
book about fact: Mary Elting’s The Lollypop Factory and Lots of 
Others which is about industrial organization, written in a nice no- 
nonsense style like those old books by |lin. There is a Giant Golden 
Encyclopaedia which doesn’t tell you much about anything, but is 
the sort of thing it is fun to browse through. 
I'd also like to list one stunning biography available in paper, which 
| have been giving away to friends of mine: Journey Towards 
Freedom: 
The Story of Sojurner Truth by Jacqueline Bernard. 
If you are far from libraries or bookstores, Blackwell's in Oxford 
has a splendid children’s book catalog, and the price of books in 
England is so reasonable that even with postage it may be cheaper 
than here; they are very obliging about letting you set up an account 
rather than paying for each order. 
If you write them they will reply 
(or have to me) via a handwritten letter. 
Now for another department. 
If you are going to list books on such 
finicky crafts as macrame, | think you should list Cookies and Breads: 
The Baker’s Art by \|se Johnson and Nika Standen Hazelton, Reinhold 
Publishing Corp., $6.95. Most of it consists of photographs of items 
in an exhibition of ornamental breads and cookies at the Museum of 
Contemporary Crafts, but it also has some how-to directions and we 
went absolutely wild here one Saturday making instant stained-glass 
with cookie dough and pounded-up sourballs. 
| was rendered absolutely euphoric by your review of my book, 
The View from the Barrio, in the fall issue. Such a contrast to the 
American Anthropologist.. They sort of liked it, but were made very 
uneasy by the lack of footnotes. 
Loyally, 
Lisa R. Peattie 
- 
Newton, Mass. 
See Epilog, pages 712-713 
“Listen, Fox, it is not | who started this idea that there was a man 
telling this story, it was you. For all we know, there is no such man.” 
“Of course, there is not, | invented him.” 
“That doesn’t prove anything. Marum’da invented the people, and 
they existed whether he liked it or not. Maybe you invented the man 
who is telling this story, so now he exists. 
It’s too bad, but now you 
can’t get rid of him.” 
; 
“Yes, | will. Ill destroy him the.way Marum’da did the people.” 
“Then you 
know what will happen, Mister? You won’t exist any 
more because he is the one who is telling the story.” 
“Oh, oh, oh, stop, Oriole!’’ Fox was holding his head in both hands. 
Then he laughed as he pulled Oriole to her feet and they both ran 
down the hill. 
He heard a sweet voice sing Abide With Me. 
r) 
And then he helped them carry Emmit in his coffin outside to 
where the sled was waiting. 
® 
And he walked with Leonard leading the horse up Trace Fork, 
the others coming behind, not the old folks, not Mrs. Godsey nor 
Mr. Olney, just those who could make it in the sun over the broken 
road and then across the broken hillside up the rugged slope past 
yellow, yellow earth of the churned up land, 
And he helped them lower the coffin into the grave 
e 
And he walked with Marcella and Doyle and Leonard and the 
rest back down to the homeplace 
e 
And Mrs. Thornton had been in the old house, cleaning up, and 
someone had brought food, fried chicken and cakes and pies and a 
great bowl of green beans cooked with a piece of fat, 
e 
And D.R. ate with the people and talked with them and Marcella 
and her family stayed that night at the homeplace and it was a 
marvelous, far-out time they had, talking about the old days, 
That evening in itself’s a story but I’m just too tired now honey 
to tell you any more. I’m crashing now, falling into sleep again, 
here in Emmit’s bed. 
1’ll tell you the rest when | wake up, for 
there’s oh so much to say. 
Children’s Books 
Learning 
= 
a 
