Puppets 
From 3 years. Simple and expressive viny! puppets for fantasy 
fun. Blue whale, green frog, grey wolf, red dragon, yellow duck. 
Designed by Dion Porzio. $2.95 each. 
Creative Playthings 
Tube Rattle 
From 3 months. Soft clear 
plastic tube for watching, touching, 
chewing, bending and stretching. 
Five stainless steel balls locked 
inside roll freely through the 
entire loop. Designed by Fredun 
Shapur. $2.50 
Creative Playthings 
Creative Playthings 
s 
Princeton, New Jersey 08540 
See Epilog, pages 714-715 
Preschool Press, Inc. 
159 West 53rd St. 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
| MATH IS A TOUCH 
| Touch to Learn is a find-out-for-yourself math machine. 
It works 
| 
on flashlight batteries with visual cassettes, each stocked with 20 
| picture problems. Only a correct response will wind the tape to 
| the next question. Comes with two programs, Learning to 
identify Numbers and Learning to Tell Time. Six other programs 
available separately broaden the program to include counting, 
) 
addition, subtraction and coin values. 
412 TOUCH TO LEARN 
' Price: $8.00 (batteries not included) 
Price: $6.00 
Play and Playthings for the Preschool Child 
This book will be useful to schools, and parents and teachers of 
| 
children under eight. 
It was originally published under the title of 
Play With a Purpose for Under-Sevens, so the “preschool” in the 
title doesn’t mean only 3 and four-year-olds. Since the author is 
an English nursery school teacher the book is written under English 
assumptions: you aren‘t going to run out and buy everything you 
need, and you're going to make use of anything you've got lying 
around the house anyway, like castoff car tires and coat hangers. 
Mrs. Matterson has a clear practical style of writing, and a lovely 
way of making things sound terribly easy to do. As a matter of 
fact, most of the equipment and toys in this book. are easy to 
make. Besides giving instructions for making things, Mrs. Matterson 
| 
says a lot about children’s play: the kinds of play, its meaning 
| 
to children, music, pets, natural play materials, books (there's a 
whole chapter on story-telling), and play for sick children. Her 
last two chapters are on planning a playgroup (that’s an English 
co-op nursery school) and an open letter to child-welfare experts 
-and school boards. 
There’s an appendix at the end with a list of 
_ books suitable for children from 3 to 6 years old, and a list of 
j | 
sources of supply for play equipment. Probably the editor did 
_the appendix, since it lists American sources of supply and infor- 
"mation. She also must have weeded out the exclusively English 
_ terms and objects available only in England, because everything in 
| the book seems to be universal and easy to get. In Evelyn Beyer’s 
reat Britain— whether or not to read fantasy and fairy tales to 
young children. 
In England parents and teachers rarely seem to 
413 SET OF SIX ADDITIONAL TOUCH TO LEARN CASSETTES. 
Playthings 
The old standby who always comes up with nifty, new items, 
especially for infants is Creative Playthings. Catalog free. 
Childecraft has a good similar line, with some more elaborate 
toys. Catalog free. 
Preschool Things Catalog is a nice sideventure of Sesame Street 
(long live), with various toys and books. Catalog $0.50. 
Constructive Playthings has stuff especially for yards, schools 
and playgrounds, along with dolls, games, etc. Catalog $1.00. 
Childlife Play Specialities has strictly yard and playground 
stuff. Catalog free. 
Polypops /s a British outfit with extraordinarily nifty 
cardboard items— rollers, furniture, little houses, etc. 
Catalog free. 
[Suggested by Jeremy Scott Wood) 
Galt Toys has complex, civilized, inexpensive British stuff. 
Catalog free? Galt Toys, 63 Whitfield Street, Guilford, CT 06437 
re 
i 
) 
seers 
¥ 
ait 
ate 
ae 
| 
i 
“ 
Sees 
” eee Play Specialties, Inc. 
; 
55 Whitney St. 
PUNCHIN JUDY BAG 
Holliston, Mass. 01746 
The perfect outlet for active youngsters’ energies, our Punchin Judy, 
Bag will take all the punishment they can deliver. Tackle or punch 
it, roll it or ride it— this sturdy. bag comes back for more. 
Easily 
disconnected from its double rope for separate play on the floor. 
Designed for both indoor and outdoor use, but store inside. 
Length 27’, diameter 9’. Made with strong cotton duck, a heavy 
_ top strap and firm wool stuffing. Screw eyes included. Age 2% up. 
(p.p. 15 Ib.) $17.50 
Polypops 
Paperchase Products Ltd. 
11 Alfred Place 
London WC1 
LUNARTRACK 
England 
Articulated caterpillar track propelled by one child power. The 
child gets in and crawls forward in a normal manner the tank 
revolving round the child. The tank like action is extremely 
realistic and the track sill surmount small obstacles. A certain 
degree of skill develops with use and familiarity. Sections can be 
omitted to make a circumference more adaptable for younger 
children. 
Dimensions: Width 15’" Overall length 56” 
Carry Home Case: 35%" x 2-3/4" x 28%" 
Price £3.0.0 
worry about the effect on young children of wicked stepmothers 
abandoning children to starve, of the chopper coming to chop off 
your head when you play London Bridge, but here we're all awfully 
queasy about that sort of thing. Mrs. Beyer is in favor of “‘a story 
diet of here-and-nowness” for three and four-year-olds. 
(1 disagree 
with her here— taken literally that would mean throwing out The 
Three Bears and Peter Rabbit) 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Dorothy Horn] 
Play and Pisihiiies for the Preschool Child 
E.M. Matterson 
1965, 1967; 180 pp. 
$1.95 postpaid 
from: 
Penguin Books, Inc. 
7110 Ambassador Rd. 
Baltimore, Md. 21207 
3984 55th St., 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
‘Basic materials (like water, earth, wood, vegetable matter, rock 
and metal) impose a relentless, impersonal, uniform discipline on 
us all. . .1f your children were provided with nothing else ever, 
they would still be far happier and learn more than a good many 
children with. . .a room full of status-symbol toys.” 
Galt Toys 
63 Whitfield St. 
Guilford, CT 06437 
BOUNCING 
TUBE 
This 
heavy-duty 
truck 
tire tube 
inflates 
to 36’’ diam. and 11%"’ 
high. 
The 
two 
heavy 
canvas 
covers 
and strong pablus sup- 
ports can take all the punishment 
energetic 
bouncers 
can 
give 
it. 
Constructive Playthings 
Niowsa2 
4A Ibs. 
$10.95 
1040 East 85th St. 
: 
Kansas City, Missouri 64131 
Childcraft Education Corp. 
Dept. WE 
150 East 58th Street 
THREADING BLOCK 
New York, N.Y. 10022 
Children can’t resist. this natural hardwood toy that invites 
involvement. 
Push the wooden needle into a hole; it comes out of 
a hole on another side. Changing the order in which holes are 
threaded creates a variety of patterns on the block. Unusually fine 
for developing finger, hand and eye coordination. 
18 mos. — 3 yrs. 
RM 163 1 Ib. $4.50 
And Reverend Bagby presided over a silent prayer with his arm 
upraised and his hand outstretched, till finally someone among the 
people said amen, and Reverend Bagby concluded with verse fif- 
teen: 
That which hath been is now; and that which is to be hath 
already been; and God requireth that which is past. 
personally, were only a part of what he had to say. 
-He gave a little 
of Emmit’s biography. He said that he was born there on Trace 
Fork, that he’d grown up there, and had gone to Finley County 
High School. He said that he’d served in World War Two, and been 
wounded, and that after the war he'd gone into the coal business 
for a while. He talked about Emmit living a few years in Louisville, 
and about his year in the Veteran’s Hospital and then his return to 
Trace Fork when his father died. But the remarks about Emmit 
personally were only little decorations on a larger statement he was 
trying to make that D.R. listened to very carefully. 
It wasn’t a 
logical statement, it was better than that. He began with the read- 
ing from Ecclesiastes, and then allowed his words to spread up and 
outward into a kind of song. Half the time he spoke with his eyes 
closed. And now and then he'd stop suddenly, hushed by some 
inner command, and in the church a silence would build that he 
in turn would use to build his song upon, reaching higher and higher 
and lower and lower, sometimes bridging the high and the low by 
lapsing into an unknown tongue, never much, and never for very 
long, just little shines of the pure language of glossolalia, fah lan tah, 
mah nah lah, fa lan tah. 
And D.R. listened. 
Toys 
: / 
Learning 
6 
Reverend Bagby began to speak then, and remarks about Emmit, 
