Bing me Good Life 
| 
Some decades ago Scott Nearing gave up as an academic and 
retreated to the Vermont woods, where he promptly began 
to rediscover for himself how to stay alive in the North 
Temperate Zone. His advice is in this book. He invented a 
‘method for building stone houses very cheaply, he perfected 
away of living into the winter on crops taken in the summer 
“from ingeniously constructed gardens, and he relied——perhaps 
_more than anyone today will care to rely——on a division of 
4 his labors between the hands and the head. He was a one- 
¥ 
‘e 
i 
man community. He never wasted anything (it will drive 
you mad _to hear his paeans of praise for used motor oil), he 
_ 
tried to ignore machines wherever possible, he tried to live 
ona 
cash-less basis (and largely succeeded), and he annoyed 
_ his old-timey Vermont neighbors by living in a more down-to- 
% to-earth life thah they ever could and showing them how to 
_ maple-sugar and farm. He beat them 
at their own game, and 
_ for thirty years it lasted——until the ski crowds began to 
_ turn utopia into suburbia. Nearing fled to Maine where, 
| presumably, he’s started all over again. Lots of sawy advice 
| in here, and a good picture of how it works in practice to 
_ turn your back on advantages that you know are right out 
_ 
there waiting for you. Nutrition freaks will find the Nearing 
_ diet a new challenge. Nearing is no spring chicken, and so- 
_if nothing else this book will shame you into getting up and 
_ getting moving. 
[Reviewed by Stephan Chodorov] 
Scott N. earing tending a vegetable garden. 
_Malabar Farm 
| Bromfield was a Pulitzer Prize-winning author who at the 
_ start of Hitler’s war returned to his boyhood home in north 
central Ohio, bought several worn-out farms, established 
_ something which would probably be called a commune if it 
_were done today (it wasn’t called that then, as Bromfield and 
_ the people associated with him were ultra-respectable), and 
proceeded to use good conservation practices and numerous 
ig unnovations to restore his land to fertility and health. 
vid Suggested and reviewed by 
Pat Patterson] 
Malabar Farm 
_ Louis Bromfield 
ee 1970; 470 pp. 
| 
$1. 
-25 postpaid 
from: 
Fi 
“Ballantine Books, Inc. 
| 101 Fifth Ave. 
- York, N.Y. 10003 
' 
Me 
== 
. 
SOR Trend 
Ge 
; 
SSR HAASE 
Le 
ding, 
bia 
peowtdan 
tyr anasdusvidiw Al 
59, Ce, 
han 
Vy eu 
re ), 
el 
Wee Marne Rey t 
Living the Good Life 
Helen and Scott Nearing 
1954, 1970; 214 pp. 
$1 95 postpaid 
from: 
Schocken Books 
67 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10016 
HPELEX AND SCOTT NEARING 
Living the Good Life 
HOW TO LIVE SANILS: 
AND) SOMETA 
INA TROUNLE WORD 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
We chose stone for several reasons. Stone buildings seem a natural 
out-cropping of the earth. They blend into the landscape and are 
a part of it. We like the varied color and character of the stones, 
which are lying around unused on most New England farms. Stone 
houses are poised, dignified and solid—sturdy in appearance and in 
fact, standing as they do for generations. They are cheaper to 
maintain, needing no paint, little or no upkeep or repair. They 
will not burn, They are cooler in summer and warmer in winter. 
If, combined with all these advantages, we could build them 
economically, we were convinced that stone was the right material 
for our needs. 
. we soon discovered that after the building was finished, the 
different rate of expansion for concrete and wood pulled the two 
apart at times, leaving a small crack between the frame and the concrete 
wall. We remedied this in later.censtruction by cutting asquare 
groove all around the outside 
tt the frame and inseFtifg a small 
strip of wood which projected % inch or a little more beyond 
the center of the frame into the concrete. Later we improved this 
method still more and cut a groove half an inch deep with a bench-saw 
and set a piece of galvanized metal % inch wide into the groove. 
This took less time than inserting the wood strip and served the 
same purpose of bridging the crack between frame and concrete. 
( 
We would attempt to carry on this self-subsistent economy by 
the following steps: (1) Raising as much of our own food as local 
soil and climatic conditions would permit. (2) Bartering our 
products for those which we could not or did not produce. (3) 
Using wood for fuel and cutting it ourselves. (4) Putting up our 
own buildings with stone and wood from the place, doing the 
work ourselves. (5) Making such implements as sleds, drays, stone- 
boats, gravel screens, ladders. (6) Holding down to the barest 
minimum the number of implements, tools, gadgets and machines 
which we might buy from the assembly lines of big business. 
(7) 1f we had to have such machines for a few hours or days ina 
year (plough, tractor, rototiller, bull-dozer, chainsaw), we would 
rent or trade them from local people instead of buying and owning 
them. 
See Epilog, page 616 “Our House of Stone” 
All our contour plowing, cover crops, and strip cropping have paid 
us great dividends. Throughout the drought when farms all over 
Ohio were hauling water, our springs kept up their flow, because the 
methods we took to stop erosion and the run-off of surface water 
had stored up great quantities of water underground. When we came 
here about 80 percent of the water in a heavy rainstorm ran off the 
place; today we keep on the place 80 to 90 percent of the rain that 
falls, trapped by sod, contours, and strips. 
It sinks deep into the 
earth to replenish the reservoirs in the great crevasses in the under- 
lying sandstone rock. 
The proper use of the land plus a simple program of game food and 
cover has certainly paid big dividends in fish, birds, and game. 
Everywhere at Malabar, since we established the farm as a game 
propagation area, the population of wild life has doubled and re- 
doubled, again and again. Once the area becomes saturated, the ex- 
cess population moves off inot the neighboring territory where it 
provides sport for hunters. We do not shoot on the farm and allow 
no shooting but the sportsmen benefit enormously by the closed 
season on this large area. Big fox-squirrel, fox, raccoon and 
rabbits are especially abundant. Of course there is always plenty 
of quail (on which in Ohio there is no season) and some grouse 
and pheasant although the foxes kill off the latter pretty rapidly. 
The whole theory of the ability of healthy plants grown in 
organically balanced and complete, mineralized soils to resist 
disease and even to some extent attacks by insects is not altogether 
new, either in the field Gfresearch among highly skilled market 
gardeners or among intelligent amateurs, but it is largely unknown 
in general agriculture. The theory of putting into the soil the 
means of resistance rather than applying it externally by dusts and 
sprays is much more revolutionary and comparatively little research 
has been done along these lines. 
el 
ives 
ee 
Se 
Walden 
This edition is the one, | believe, that Thoreau would 
have bought. It costs seventy-five cents: The prime 
document of America’s 3rd Revolution, now in progress. 
—SB 
Walden (and ‘Civil Disobedience’) 
Henry David Thoreau 
1854; 256 pp. 
$0.95 postpaid 
from: 
New American Library, Inc. 
1301 Ave. of the Americas 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Most of the luxuries, and many of the so-called comforts of life, 
are not only not indispensable, but positive hindrances to the 
elevation of mankind. With respect to luxuries and comforts, the 
wisest have ever lived a more simple and meagre life than the poor. 
The customs of some savage nations might, perchance, be profitably 
imitated by us, for they at least go through the semblance of 
casting their slough annually; they have the idea of the thing, 
whether they have the reality or not. Would it not be well if we 
were to celebrate such a “‘busk,’’ or “feast of first fruits,”’ as 
Bartram describes to have been the custom of the Mucclasse 
Indians? ‘’When a town celebrates the busk,”’ says he, ‘*having 
previously provided themselves with new clothes, new pots, pans, 
and other household utensils and furniture, they collect all their 
worn out clothes and other despicable things, sweep and cleanse 
their houses, squares, and the whole town, of their filth, which 
with all the remaining grain and other old provisions they cast 
together into one common heap,.and consume it with fire. After 
having taken medicine, and fasted for three days, all the fire in 
the town is extinguished. During this fast they abstain from 
the gratification of every appetite and passion whatever. A 
general amnesty is proclaimed; all malefactors may return to 
their town. 
“On the fourth morning, the high priest, by rubbing dry wood 
together, produces new fire in the public square, from whence 
every habitation in the town is supplied with the new and pure 
flame.” 
| learned this, at least, by my experiment: 
that if one advances 
confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live 
the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unex- 
pected in common hours. He will put some things behind, will 
pass an invisible boundary; new, universal, and more liberal |aws 
will begin to establish themselves around and within him; or the 
old laws be expanded, and interpreted in his favor in a more liberal 
sense, and he will live with the license of a higher order of beings. 
In proportion as he simplifies his life, the laws Of the universe will 
appear less complex, and solitude will not be solitude, nor poverty 
poverty, nor weakness weakness. 
If you have built castles in the 
air, your work need not be lost; that is where-they should be. Now 
put the foundations under them. 
mes 
Divine Right and Estelle were sitting in folding chairs drinking 
beer and eating cashew nuts while the Lone Outdoorsman grilled 
steaks over a charcoal fire. Like Estelle and Divine Right, he had 
dressed for the occasion too. He had on a cowboy hat and cow- 
boy boots, a pair of levis, a flannel shirt with a vest and, while 
he cooked, a knee-length apron that was white everywhere it 
didn’t have blood stains on it. Now and then a breeze would swirl 
the smoke up in a cloud around his head, momentarily decapitating 
him so that it appeared that there was only his wide, round body in 
cowboy clothes tending the slabs of meat on the charcoal fire. 
It was a surreal scene all right, but D.R. and Estelle were both so 
stoned it struck them as the most ordinary of domestic occasions. 
it was dark by now and so far there wasn’t any moon. The trees 
around the camp framed the entire universe, as far as they were 
witness. What they saw was all there was anywhere in all creation, 
and for heads as awash with dope smoke as D.R.’s and Estelle’s, 
that was quite enough. 
“I'm a cancer,” D.R. suddenly called out to the Lone Outdoors- 
man. “My sign is the crab. | get where I’m going by walking side- 
ways.” 
The Lone Outdoorsman nodded as he turned the steaks. 
“Yeah. I'm in the Fin, Fur and Feather Club myself, great buncha 
guys.” 
“Got him!” Estelle exclaimed, swatting a fat mosquito on her 
arm. 
“Yeah,” said the Outdoorsman. “They’re pretty bad tonight. 
We'll go in soon as these steaks are done. Time for Westward 
Westward anyhow. 
“You got TV?” Estelle asked. 
“Sure. 
It’s a little one, but you can see it all right.” 
“Far out! Can we watch it too?” 
4 
The question pained the Outdoorsman. He turned to look at 
his guests. ‘Of course you can. You're my guests, ain’t you?” 
"Fantastic!”’ Estelle and D.R. were so excited by the prospect 
of TV they leaned their chairs together and gave each other little 
hugs. 
“We haven't seen TV since we left Oregon.” 
“How long ago was that?” asked the Outdoorsman. 
“1 don’t know,” said D.R. “When did we leave Oregon?” 
“Three weeks ago. tomorrow.” 
“Three weeks ago tomorrow,” D.R. said to the Outdoorsman. 
“Shucks. 
| drove here from Phoenix in a day and a half.” 
“Yeah, well, you see,” said D.R. and he got out of his chair 
and walked closer to his host. ‘You see, I’m a Cancer, my sign 
is the crab, | get where I’m going by walking sideways.” 
"1 plan to take a different route back to Phoenix myself,” 
said the Outdoorsman. “See 
Land Life 
Land Use 
THE LESSON OF THE DEER 
? 
some new country. That's the 
great thing about America, 
there’s always some new 
country to see.” 
(continued) 
