“a by Victor Papanek and George Seeger at North Carolina State College. 
The Design of Design 
/t’s superficially a book for design engineers, but should 
be useful to anyone engaged in the design of physical objects 
or strategies. Simple and basic. More advanced treatment 
of design techniques gets you into computers.and very 
_ sophisticated decision making theory. The main trip Is 
concentrated on getting your head straight so that design 
decisions of any sort can be made intelligently. .There’s a 
good bit of practical advice concealed in a slurry of 
English Humour. 
The only book of its type that we know 
of. Among the better points: 
Concentration and then relaxation is the common pattern behind 
most creative thinking. 
Beware of intrinsic impossibilities. 
Beware of pseudo-technical words. 
[He means words like ‘‘sturdy,” 
big’, beautiful’, etc.] 
Define problems in figures or configurations. 
Aim at continuity of energy. 
5 
{ 
He really gets to the center of the modern-technology-versus- 
New-Mexico-Funk argument: 
If the design of a particular machine or production line is based on 
the way the process was originally done by hand, it is unlikely to 
be the final form. The feeding forward by mechanizing a style 
that was handy when only hands were available is doomed, in the 
long run, to be superceded by the feeding back of ideas and materials 
from the physical sciences. 
Beware of well-dressed arts and crafts. 
[Reviewed by J. Baldwin] 
Structure, Form and Movement 
The usual procedure is that R&D comes up 
with a new process, it’s implemented for 
several years, and then some biologist says 
Hey did you know porpoises did that? (or 
snakes did that, or bees or elm seeds). And 
everybody says My, my, ain’t Nature smart. 
Herr Hertel and colleagues are trying to reverse 
the order, learn from nature first, save time 
and stay humble. 
(This approach now has a 
name, “bionics”; a book by that title that’s 
around is terrible.) 
This book may be too expensive for its direct 
usefulness, but it thoroughly displays the 
approach that research may take to bugs, birds, 
fish, etc. for yield in navigation, flight, stream- 
lining, etc. 
=SR 
Structure, Form and Movement 
Heinrich Hertel 
1963, 1966; 251 pp. 
$19.95 postpaid 
from: 
Van Nostrand Reinhold Co. 
450 W. 33rd St. 
New York, N.Y. 10001 
Design for the Real World 
/ndustrial design is in deservedly bad odor lately, and this 
book will give you many of the reasons——most of them 
having to do with pandering. to self-exaggerating marketplace 
fashion, the disposable environment. 
Victor Papanek is a Bush Designer. He prefers to hang out 
in Third-World places, where the problems are physical and 
serious, and where native design genius can be learned and 
applied to them using industrial materials. 
This book works 
on distinguishing between real and phoney design problems, 
‘and their solutions. 
—SB 
Design for the Real World 
Victor Papanek 
71971 
$2.25 postpaid 
from: 
Bantam Books Inc. 
666 Fifth Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
"Nomadic Furn iture’* 
An ambulance can cost as much as $28,500. Where are well designed, 
low cost inserts that would convert any.station wagon to ambulance 
use during a national emergency? With the number and prices of 
ambulances now, this particular national emergency began about 20 
years ago! 
Radio receiver designed for Third World usage. 
It is made of a used 
juice can, and uses paraffin wax and a wick as power source. The 
- 
rising heat is converted into enough energy to power this non- 
selective receiver. Once the wax is gone, it can be replaced by more 
wax, paper, dried cow dung, or anything else that will burn. 
Manufacturing costs, on a cottage industry basis: 8 cents. Designed 
The Design 
of Design 
Gordon LPGlesg 
° 
1969; 93 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid 
from: 
Cambridge University Press 
32 East 57th Street 
New York, N. Y. 10022 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Invention 
Inventor 
Safety razor 
‘Vraveller in corks 
Kodachrome films 
Musician 
Ballpoint pen 
Sculptor 
5 
Automatic telephone — Undertaker 
Parking meter 
Journalist 
See 
log, page 840 
“The Seance of Design’ 
Pneumatic tyre 
Long-playing record 
Veterinary surgeon 
‘Television engineer 
You are taken out to lunch and everyone is anxious to hear 
you tell them how a “few adjustments” or possibly ““some 
electronics’ will solve all the difficulties. You have to break 
it to them that everything is wrong in principle. 
Fig. 52 Beginning of take-off = wing stroke 
eu 
forward and down 
ee) 
Incident flow - downwash - forces. 
————j» 
PR 
Below: stagnation point; flow around the 
Sv 
leading edge. 
Artificial burrs, 40cm long, made of bio-degradable plastic and 
coated with plant seeds and a growth-boosting solution. To reverse 
errosiort cycles in arid regions. Student designed by James Herold 
and Jolan Truan, Purdue University. 
The Forth bridge 
the Severn bridge 
Suspension bridge designers thought at first that the major 
problem would be the load, and learned by spectacular 
experience that it was really the stability. 
Chord 
chord 
cL raagerasmimart re 
The hand remiges of birds are masterfully 
perfected to obviate flutter: 
—The hollow cross section of the supporting 
frame consisting of the feather quill is 
continuous over the entire lenth and 
approximates a cylinder, which resists 
torsion well. This cross section also 
improves resistance to bending. 
—The vitralight construction of the vanes 
ensures minimum moment of mass about 
the quill axis. 
‘ 
—Variations in aerodynamic forces during 
oscillation affect 25% of the profile depth. 
Consequently, the form of the remiges, with 
Narrower anterior vane sections and broader 
posterior vane sections, is appropriate for 
aeroelastic reasons. 
In the primary feather 
shown in figure 65, the resultant of aero— 
dynamic forces lies behind the shaft. 
For a long time, | don’t remember how long, but it was years, 
literally years, | could not get all the parts of speech together. 
Or if | could get them together, | could not get them together in 
the proper sequence. One week | could speak sentences that had 
everything in place except the verbs. | just could not remember 
verbs. 
| couldn’t say, ’! am going to town.” “| am town,” was 
the best that | could do, and it was maddening. The next week it 
would be nouns, or adjectives, just . . 
. missing, that was all. Like 
not having enough tools or parts to finish putting something to- 
gether with. And so | would. just not say anything to anybody. 
| wandered lonely through the world muttering ‘’Cheeseburger” 
now and then, or “Where?” or “When?” or “Why?” Of course 
my silence was not true silence. 
In my mind there was utter 
chaos. My mind never stopped. Day and night it went on and on 
and on, remembering everything that ever happened, every con- 
versation | had ever heard, playing them over and over, with new 
embellishments and adornments each new time. 
The year it was at its worst | lived in San Francisco. There 
was supposed to be an earthquake that year. All the talk was of 
earthquakes, earthquakes. 
| was into earthquakes in this really 
heavy way. Earthquakes and Edgar Cayce. | was convinced there 
was going to be an earthquake, that California was going to tumble 
into the sea. And my trip was, | wanted it to happen. 
| wanted 
California to fall into the sea, and | wanted to fall in with it, to 
be swallowed up by a thing so big, so huge, so utterly enormous 
that | would disappear into absolute nothingness. | wanted to see 
heave and slide and fall with the greatest roar and rumble the 
world had ever known. And | wanted to go down with it because 
then | wouldn’t have to think about the parts of things. If the 
parts would not come together and function for me, then let them 
fly apart, scatter and be gone weightless through the universe. 
Let freedom reign! 
Let nothing matter! That was my belief. 
Well, of course, as we all know, there was no earthquake, 
California didn’t fall into the sea. | was disappointed but sobered 
a good deal by the months | spent in anticipation of it. My head. 
felt clearer. 
1 began to speak simple sentences again. | got inter- 
ested in art. | got interested in the possibility of Atlantis rising 
again, and | wondered what | ought to do about it. | even sat 
down one day and wrote a little pamphlet called, “What To Do 
If Atlantis Rises,” and had a few hundred copies printed up. 
1 tried to sell the copies, and when no one would buy them | 
started giving them away to people passing on the street. 
(continued) 
Desi 
Raney 1 1 
=119 
