Self-Hypnosis 
A guy from Stanford named Bob Lochridge came into the 
Truck Store, saw Lecron’s Self Hypnotism and said that it 
was sure enough a good book about self-hypnotism, but for 
technique we'd be better off with Sparks’ Self-Hypnosis. 
—SB 
So we are. 
[Suggested by Bob Lochridge] 
Self-Hypnosis 
Laurance Sparks 
1962; 254 pp. 
$3.00 postpaid 
from: 
Wilshire Book Company 
12015 Sherman Road 
N. Hollywood, CA 91605 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Pre-Trance Instructions 
While in a comfortable place and with eyes fixed straight ahead: 
1. Think of the time you wish to ‘wake up.” 
2. Formulate your suggestion. 
Trance-Induction Procedure 
imagine “’1000-3", the symbol for relaxation. 
. Imagine 1000-5", 
DHA 
w 
Deepening Procedure 
Imagine ‘‘1000-1"’, the symbol for evoking tiredness of the eyelids. 
Imagine “1000-2, the symbol for evoking eyeclosure. 
Imagine “1000-4”, the symbol for emotiona tranquillity. 
the symbol denoting ‘‘hyper-suggestibility.” 
Imagine a circle enclosing an ‘“’X,” then carefully erase the “’X.” 
9. Imagine, one by one, the letters of the alphabet, as if writing 
a’ in the circle, then erasing it, etc. 
e 
After she achieved a self-induced trance, | explained 
to her that she would see a movie that she had seen 
years ago, that it would be very clear and vivid and 
that she would see it upon a signal of snapping my 
fingers. 
| made a mistake, which had to do with 
the realization that | had neglected to give her 
certain instructions, and inadvertently snapped 
my fingers before explaining to her about the 
second signal. Imagine my surprise when she 
immediately woke up! 
| felt rather provoked 
with myself until | noticed her amazed expression, 
* and she said, “Why, that’s the most interesting 
thing that ever happened to mel”’ 
“What happened?” 
to expect. 
“| just saw Gone With the Wind,” 
laughing. 
| asked, not knowing quite what 
she replied, 
“How much of it did you see?” 
“1 saw the whole thing from beginning to end. It 
was even better than | remembered.” 
While | was still trying to figure out what had 
happened, she was telling me at great length about 
the picture. 
| found it hard to believe that she had 
really seen the whole picture, or even a small part 
of it, in such a short instant of time. But she con- 
vinced me by describing every detail of the opening 
scenes and dialogue, and continuing with vivid word- 
for-word reproduction as if she had just come from 
the theatre. Better, in fact, than if she had. 
It was 
clear that she had experienced imagery of the most 
vivid kind imaginable of a two-and-one-half hour 
picture in the time it took to snap my fingers—not 
between two signals; just during one snap! 
Psycho-cybernetics 
This strange and gaudy volume will probably 
turn you off if you associate wisdom with sub- 
dued writing or humble exposition. However, 
if you can overcome your initial resistence to 
the high-pressure, breezy style and the some- 
times excessive claims, it will be worth the 
effort. 
Dr. Maltz has outlined perhaps the 
easiest program of personality development 
and modification in print. [tis easy because 
it contains nothing but the suggested exercises 
and the understanding that the motivation to 
change is still the most powerful tool. 
This is nota book to read. It isa kit of tools 
to use in gaining control of your nature for 
whatever ends you desire. 
The author has 
made it clear that there is no virtue in being 
obscure or even in being poetic if it detracts 
¥rom getting the reader off his ass and doing 
something about himself. 
There is an assumption of a higher self or a 
core to one’s being which tends toward reali- 
zation or whatever term you prefer but under— 
standing of this inner nature is not vital to 
using the book. 
4.22 
Self-Hypnosis 
Learning 
“We are now going to assume that you are at the 
stage of 1000-5 and that we have made the suggestion 
that your right hand is going to move up toward 
your face, and when your fingers touch your face 
you will go deeper than ever 
before. While you are 
very deep | will go over the pattern again, and from 
— 
then on you will be able to put yourself into a deep 
trance whenever it is safe for you to do so. You will 
be able to go deep any time you wish. Quickly and 
easily as long as it is safe. Deeper each time. 
“| want you to think about your right hand now. 
Notice how it feels. Everyone has sensations going 
on in his hands continuously, but usually we don’t 
notice these sensations. We have no need to notice 
them. Now, | want you to notice your right hand. 
Think about how it feels. 
Think about whether it feels warm or cool. Think 
about whether it feels light or heavy. Notice whether 
or not you can feel the pulse beating in your hand 
or fingers. In alittle while, perhaps already, there 
will be a sensation of lightness in your hand and arm. 
Your hand will keep getting lighter and lighter and 
it will be drawn up to your face. When your fingers 
gently touch your face you will go very deep. Deeper 
each time. Deeper than before. 
“Keep thinking about your hand. Your fingers may 
have a tendency to twitch or move a little. This 
just means you are going deeper. This is what we 
want. Now | want you to think of your hand being 
a little bit higher than it is. Picture your hand a little 
bit higher and, as you do, it becomes that way. Now 
picture yourself writing the word ‘lighter’ on a black- 
board. Each time you write the word ‘lighter’ your 
hand moves up higher, a little higher each time. 
It 
keeps moving higher and higher with each breath. 
Picture the image of your hand a little higher alter- 
nately with writing the word ‘lighter’ on the 
blackboard. Each time you do, subconscious 
impulses make your hand and arm lighter, and they 
keep moving up. Moving up. Higher and higher.” 
What we need to understand is that these habits, 
unlike addictions, can be modified, changed, or 
reversed, simply by taking the trouble to make a 
conscious decision—and then by practicing or 
“acting out’’ the new response or behavior. 
Simple? Yes. But each of the above habitual ways 
of acting, feeling, thinking does have beneficial and 
constructive influence on your self-image. Act them 
out for 21 days. ‘Experience’ them and see if worry, 
guilt, hostility have not been diminished and if con- 
fidence has not been increased. 
So, why not give yourself a face lift? Your do-it- 
yourself kit consists of relaxation 
of negative tensions 
to prevent scars, therapeutic forgiveness to remove old 
scars, providing yourself with a tough (not a hard) 
epidermis instead of a shell, creative living, a willing- 
ness to be a little vulnerable, and a nostalgia for the 
future instead of the past. 
/f the above puts you off then this is not the 
book for your use. 
If this totally western way 
of dealing with yourself interests you, this 
book is far better than most of the other pop- 
enlightenment books around. 
[Suggested and reviewed by James Fadiman] 
Self Hypnotism 
One of the things that intrigues me most 
about hypnotism is that no one knows how 
it works—which accounts for some of {ts disre- 
pute. No common factors, for example, have 
been found to pre-distinguish suscep tibles 
from non-susceptibles. Black box business 
Lecron doesn’t talk about any of this. He’s 
concerned with how you can detect and de- 
suggest old imprinted hang-ups and suggest 
in new ones you like better. (One subject 
suggested herself larger breasts, and got them. 
Possibly the most general use of this boox 
is its clear delineation of a simple avenue’ 
in— a meditative technique without much 
dogma. There’sa lot of hypnosis books; 
—SB 
this is the best we've seen. 
Self Hypnotism 
Leslie M. LeCron 
1964; 208 pp. 
$0.75 postpaid 
from: 
New American Library, nc. 
1301 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, New. York 10019 
— 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Now that you are comfortable you will listen closely 
to my voice and will follow all the suggestions given. 
This will teach you how to enter hypnosis ahd how 
to produce it yourself. Your eyes are now closed, 
Take another deep breath, hold ita few seconds and 
Jet it out. 
The more you can relax, the deeper you will be able 
to go into hypnosis. Let all your muscles go as loose 
and timp as possible. To do this start with your right 
leg. Tighten the muscles first, making the leg rigid..- 
Then let it relax from your toesup to yourhip. 
| 
Then tighten the muscles of the left-leg. Let that 
leg relax from the toes up to the hip. 
Let the stomach and abdominal arearelax; then your 
chest and breathing muscles. The muscles of-your 
back can loosen— your shoulders and neck muscles 
relaxing. Often we have tension in this area. Let all 
these muscles loosen. Now your arms from the 
shoulders right down to your finger tips. Even your 
facial muscles will relax. Relaxation is so pleasant 
and comfortable. Let go completely and enjoy the 
relaxation. All tension seems to drain away and you 
soon find a listlessness creeping over you, with a 
sense of comfort and well-being. 
As you relax more and more, you will slip deeper 
and deeper into hypnosis. Your arms and legs may 
develop a feeling of heaviness. Or instead you may 
find your whole body feeling very light, as though 
you are floating on a soft cloud. 
Now imagine that you are standing at the top of 
an escalator such as those in some stores. See the 
steps moving down in front of you, and see the 
railings. | am going to count from ten to zero. As 
| start to count, imagine you are stepping on the 
escalator, standing there with your hands on the 
railing while the steps move down in front of you 
taking you with them. 
If you prefer, you can ima- 
gine a staircase or an elevator instead. 
If you have 
any difficulty visualizing the escalator. or staircase 
or elevator, just the count itself will take you deeper 
“and deeper. 
PSYCHO- 
CYBERNETICS 
' A New Technique for Using Your 
SUBCONSCIOUS POWER 
By 
MAXWELL MALTZ, m.o.r.cs. 
Foreword by 
MELVIN POWERS 
Based on an amazing new scientific innovation, 
this simple yet practical "New Way of 
Life” can be the most important 
influence in your lie! 
é 
from: 
Psycho-Cybernetics 
Maxwell Maltz 
1960; 256 pp. 
$.95 postpaid 
1 W. 39th St. 
Pocket Books, Inc. 
New York, N.Y. 10018 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Then you will think to yourself the phrase, ""Now 
| am going into hypnosis.” Then repeat to your- 
— 
self the words, “Relax now”’ three times, saying 
them very slowly. As you do this you will slip off 
into hypnosis. You say nothing aloud, you merely 
think these words. When you have done this, take 
another deep breath to help you relax more and go 
through the relaxation just as you have done before. 
Tell your muscles to relax as | have done. 
When you have finally relaxed your arms, imagine 
the escalator, elevator or staircase. Now you should 
~ 
count backward from ten to zero, including the 
zero. Count slowly. In your first four practice 
sessions repeat the count three times, as though 
going down different levels. With practice you 
me 
need only count once. ° 
| 
Whenever you are ready to awaken all you need to 
do is think to yourself, ‘“Now | am going to wake 
= 
up.’ Then count slowly to three and you will be 
wide awake. You will always awaken refreshed, 
relaxed and feeling fine. 
While you are in hypnosis if something should 
ei 
happen so you should awaken, you will do so 
Bi 
‘instantly and spontaneously—someth ing such as 
the phone ringing or a real emergency like a fire. 
You will awaken instantly and be wide awake and 
fully alert. Actually this would happen without 
| 
such a suggestion being necessary, for yoursubcon- 
scious mind always protects you. 
i 
Now | will count to three and you will be wide 
;, 
awake. 
If convenient you should then go through 
i 
this formula for self-hypnosis and put y ourself 
back in. You will remember the formula’and go 
through it exactly as given. Now, awaken as | 
count. ONE. Coming awake now. TWO—almost 
awake. THREE—now you are wide wmwake. Wide 
_ awake. 
(Slowly) TEN—now you step on and start going 
: 
down. NINE—EILGHT—SEVEN-—SIX. Going deeper 
— 
and deeper with each count. FiVE—FOUR—THREE. 
~ 
Still deeper. TWO—ONE—and ZERO. Nowyou step ~ 
off at the bottom and will continue to go deeper still — 
with each breath you take. You are so relaxed and 
comfortable. 
Let go still more. Notice your breath- 
ing. Probably it is now slower and you are breathing — .
i 
{ 
f 
{ 
? 
1 
7 
more from the bottom of your lungs, abdominal 
ay 
breathing. 
mf} 
In a moment you will notice your hand and arm are 
beginning to lose any feeling of heaviness and are 
becoming light. If you are right-handed, it will be 
your right arm, if left-handed, it.will be the left. 
_The arm is getting lighter and lighter. It will begin 
to lift. Perhaps just the fingers will move first, or 
the whole hand will start to fleatup. Itwill float 
= 
toward your face, as though your face wasamag- 
net pulling it up until the fingers touch your face 
= 
someplace. - 
Let’s see where that will be. The arm 
begins to bend at the elbow. It is floating upward. 
— 
If it has not started of its own accord, liftitvolun- 
tarily a few inches to give it a start. It will continue 
— 
to go. up of its own accord with no further effort. 
It floats on up toward your face, higher and higher. 
The higher your hand goes the deeper you will go. 
The deeper you go, the higher the hand will go. 
_ Lifting, lifting, floating up higher and higher. Going 
higher and higher. Now if it has touched your face 
let your hand go down to any comfortable position, 
__ 
If it has not touched yet, it can continue to float up 
until it does touch. You can forget about the arm 
| 
while | tell you how you can put yourself into hyp- 
nosis whenever you may wish to do so. 
= 
You will use much the same method being used now. 
When you have made yourself comfortable, you will 4 
= 
merely close your eyes and drift intohypnosis, But 
in your first three or four practice sessions it would 
help you if you first lit a candle and when you have 
— 
made yourself comfortable would look at the flick- 
-ering flame for two or three minutes. Then close 
your eyes. 
a
ba 
’ 
Inner disturbance, or the opposite of tranquility, is 
nearly always caused by over-response, a too sensi- 
tive ‘alarm reaction.” 
You create a built-in 
tranquilizer, or psychic screen between yourself ana 
the disturbing stimulus, when you practice “not 
J 
responding’ ’—letting the telephone ring. 
a 
“ 
You cure old habits of over-response, you extinguish 
old conditioned reflexes, when you practice delaying 
the habitual, automatic, and unthinking response. 
__ 
a 
You may have never been formally hypnotized. But 
if you have accepted an idea—from yourself, your 
teachers, your parents, friends, advertisements—or 
from any other source, and further, if you are firmly 
convinced that idea is true, it has the same power 
over you as the hypnotist’s words have over the 
hypnotized subject. 
, 
Your automatic mechanism, or what the Freudians 
_ 
call the ‘unconscious,’ is absolutely impersonal. 
It — 
Operates as a machine and has no ‘will’ of its own. 
~ 
It always tries to react appropriately to your current 
beliefs and interpretations concerning environment. — 
It always seeks to give you appropriate feelings, and 
to accomplish the goals which you consciously de- 
termine upon. 
It works only upon the data which 
you feed it in the form of ideas, beliefs, interpreta- 
tions, opinions. 
\ 
