i 
if everybody’s so rene by Gaudi, like they say they are, 
“ "how come there’ sno new buildings.around that look like 
his? 
a 
_God damn architects who bore and stifle and preen their 
_chickenyard feathers. 
Give us more jungle birds like this one. 
| If their buildings are inconvenient, good. 
a 
—SB 
| Antoni Gaudi 
_ James Johnson Sweeney, Joseph Lluis Sert 
1960; 1970; 192 pp. 
OUT OF Bgtat 
from: 
|. Praeger Publishers, Inc. 
111 Fourth Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
| 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Writings and Buildings 
/ read this while | was in the- Army, where our bugle calls 
came on scratchy 
records. 
Frank Lloyd Wright's reveille is still ringing. 
—SB 
Writings and Buildings 
Frank Lloyd Wright. 
Edgar. Kaufman, Ben Raeburn, eds. 
1960; 346 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
i from: 
New American Library 
1301 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
- So——the first thing to do was to get rid of the attic and, therefore, 
_ of the dormer and of the'useless ‘‘heights’’ below it. And next, get 
rid of the unwholesome basement, entirely——yes, absolutely——in 
any house built on the prairie. Instead of lean, brick chimneys, 
_ 
bristling up from steep roofs to hint at “judgment’’ everywhere, | 
could see necessity for one only, a broad generous one, or at mast, 
for two, these kept low down‘on gently sloping roofs-or perhaps 
flat roofs. The big fireplace below, inside, became now a place for 
a real fire, justified the great size of this chimney outside. A real 
_ fireplace at that time was extraordinary. There were ‘’mantels”’ 
instead. A mantel was a marble frame for a few coals, or a piece of 
_ wooden furniture with tiles stuck in it and a “’grate,’’ the whole 
_ set slam up against the wall. The ‘‘mantel’’ was an insult to 
_ comfort, but the integral fireplace became an important part of the 
_ building itself in the houses | was allowed to build out there on the 
prairie. 
It refreshed me to see the fire burning deep in the masonry 
~ 
of the house itself. 
_ Simplicity in art, rightly understood, is a synthetic, positive quality, 
- in which we may see evidence of mind, breadth of scheme, wealth 
of detail, and withal a sense of completeness found in a tree or a 
~ flower. A work may have the delicacies of a rare orchid or the 
stanch fortitude of the oak, and still be simple. 
A thing to be 
_ simple needs only to be true to itself in organic sense. 
" 
: 
e 
Style is a free product but, still, a by-product: the result of the 
‘ organic working i 
in, and out of, a project Saakely in character, al- 
paether and in one state of feeling. 
5 
__ 
In Japanese, architecture may be seen what a sensitive material let 
alone for its own sake can do for human sensibilities, as beauty, 
_ for the human spirit. 
: 
__ Whether pole, beam, plank, board, slat, or rod, the Japanese archi- 
“tect got the forms and treatments ‘of his architecture out of tree 
_ nature, wood wise, and heightened the natural beauty of the 
* ewararial by cunning peculiar to himself. 
The possibilities of the properties of wood came out richly as he 
___ rubbed into it the natural oi! of the palm of his hand, ground out 
ee the soft parts of the grain to leave the hard fiber standing, an 
“erosion” like that of the plain where flowing water washes away 
the sand from the ribs of the stone. 
These benches are shaped to the human body. 
In addition their serpentine design facilitates 
the formation of conversational groups, for 
those watching children at play on the 
terrace. Gaudl’s designs are not abstract and 
inhuman as they may sometimes appear. 
Human needs and their satisfaction are care- 
fully considered. Perhaps it is due to his 
© 
understanding of these needs, that GaudI’s 
F work has always met with popular accept- 
ance, while often being regarded as eccentric 
by the more sophisticated public. 
————___—_—_—_—_—_—— 
Views of vaulting in the Glell Colony chapel. This type of construction recalls that used on the 
roof of the Mild house. The ribs are brick partitions that achieve structural efficiency without 
bulk. The construction of such vaulting requires expert craftsmanship, and careful direct super- 
vision. There are scarcely any repetitive elements; but the application of the same directive 
principle and a use of warped shapes throughout make the work simpler. 
LTS aT 
BETH 
| 
Wiens souliilf| 
Ill 
Uy Muatiwsnutil| 
YY 
Md 
LUMA 
| 
TT | 
— 
To the young man in architecture, the word radica/-should be a 
beautiful word. Radical means “‘of the root”’ or ‘‘to the root’’—— 
begins at the beginning and the word stands up straight. Any 
architect should be radical by nature because it is not enough for 
him to begin where others have left off. 
To acquire technique study the. materials of which the product is 
made, study the purpose for which it is produced, study the man- 
hood in it, the manhood of it. Keep all this present in your mind 
in all you do, because ideas with bad technique are abortions. 
* 
Beware of the architectural school except as the exponent of 
engineering. 
Go into the field where you can see the machines and methods 
~at work that make the modern buildings, or stay in construction 
direct and simple until you can work naturally into building- 
design from the nature of construction. 
Immediately begin to form the habit of thinking “why” 
-. 
concerning any effects that please or displease you. 
Take nothing for granted as beautiful or ugly, but take every 
building to pieces, and challenge every feature. 
Learn to distinguish 
the curious from the beautiful. 
Get the habit of analysis,——analysis will in time enable synthesis 
to become your habit of mind. 
“Think in simples” as my old master used to say——meaning to 
reduce the whole to its parts in simplest terms, getting back to 
first principles. Do this in order to proceed from generals to 
particulars and never confuse or confound them or yourself be 
confounded by them. 
OS 
“re 
Sy 
“(And that’s why I’m concerned about you, my friend. 
| 
have the feeling that the answers to the great questions that are 
obviously troubling you are as plain as the nose on your face, 
but you are just too ego-centered and self-involved at this point 
to realize that. 
I’ve got the feeling that the Word you are so 
in need of hearing is sounding in the atmosphere this very minute, 
but that you are too full of the static of your petty mind to hear. 
| think the first thing we ought to do by way of helping you to 
find some relief for your condition is to help you forget your 
name. 
I’ve forgotten mine. 
| don’t have the slightest idea what 
my name is, and its the most wonderful sense. of liberation there is. 
It’s like the rebirth that follows the spiritual death necessary to 
true illumination. 
One must suffer many deaths on the road to 
illumination, some actual, some only symbolic. 
Giving up your 
name is only a symbolic death, but for many people it is so 
painful it could well be likened to an actual death. What they fail 
to understand is that after death is the resurrection, the restoration 
to life that all the great spiritual leaders have experienced. This 
experience is available to every individual on one level or another, 
on planes both gross and subtle, if the individual is truly committed 
to his quest for the Ultimate Way. So what | need to know before 
we go any farther is exactly what your full name is. And your 
place of birth, your astrological sign, your height, weight and rate 
of heartbeat. Since you are having trouble speaking, perhaps you 
could just write all of that down in this little notebook here, and 
then we can get started.” 
The Greek handed D.R. a worn notebook with the yin-yang 
symbol drawn on the front in blue ink, and the word “love” 
written about fifty times on the back. The book had about a 
hundred pages in it, and nearly all of them were full of writing, 
and drawings and weird little scribbles too obscure to make out 
thumbing through. The book excited D.R. tremendously. He 
wished there was some way he could ask to read it. But that was 
not the purpose now. D.R. flipped to near the end where the 
blank pages began, and with the Greek’s ball point pen wrote down: 
“Divine Right (David Ray) Davenport. Finley County, Kentucky. 
Cancer. 
Five Feet, Ten inches tall. 158 pounds. 
| don’t know my 
heartbeat.” 
“Well, a close estimate will do,”’ said the Greek. And he took 
D.R.’s wrist in his hand, located his pulse, and began to count it 
as he watched the seconds tick off on his wrist watch. 
Gaudi & Wright 
Shelter 
h
