The Proper Study of Man 
Jim Fadiman went to college and read all those books and 
readings in the social sciences and got acquainted with 
various pioneers and put together a book of all the good 
stuff. Now you don’t have to go to college. 
—SB 
The Proper Study of Man 
James Fadiman, ed. 
1971; 481 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
Macmillan Company 
866 Third Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10022 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
From The Diary of Vaslav Nijinsky 
Everybody will say that Nijinsky has become insane. 
| do not care, 
| have already behaved like a madman at home. Everybody will 
think so, but | will not be put in an asylum, because | dance very 
well and give money to all those who ask me. People like an odd 
and peculiar man and they will leave me alone, calling me a ‘’mad 
clown.” 
| like insane people, | know how to talk to them. My 
t 
brother was in the lunatic asylum. 
| was fond of him and he understood me. 
His friends there liked 
me too, | was then eighteen years old. | know the life of lunatics 
and understood the psychology of an insane man. 
| never contradict 
them, therefore madmen like me. . 
. 
Life is not sex— sex is not God, God is man, who fecundates only 
one woman, a man who gives children to one woman. 
| am twenty- 
nine years old. 
| love my wife spiritually, not for begetting 
children. 
| will have children if God wishes it. Kyra is an intelligent 
girl. 
| do not want her to be clever. 
| will prevent her from 
developing her intelligence. 
| like simple people but not stupidity, 
because | see no feeling in that. 
Intelligence stops people from 
developing. 
| feel God and God feels me. 
The Five Ages of Man 
Educational theory presumes that cognitive and intellectual 
and “social” development is about all that can or need be 
dealt with in the schools, and the schools act accordingly. 
Gerald Heard (scarcely mentioning schools) investigates 
a deeper education, namely emotional human development 
both in history and in the individual. 
His effort is to recognize 
and honor the various stages of people’s relation to their own 
energies, and recognize and honor the requirement of 
recurrent further growth, and recognize and assist the hard 
transitions from one stage to the next. 
His notion spreads out like this: 
Historical stages 
Personal stages 
(5 crises) 
(5 ordeals) 
Coconscious man 
Heroic, self-assertive man 
Childhood (becoming paranoia) 
Ascetic, self-accusing man 
Adolescence (schizophrenia) 
Humanic, self-sufficient man 
First maturity (manic depression) 
Birth trauma 
Leptoid, post-individual man 
Second maturity (involuntary melancholy) 
What emerges from all this is pretty radical education. 
Depending on where a person is hung up, you ritually 
bury him, or half drown him, or gas him, or burn him, or 
send electricity through him. Mr. Heard has done much of 
this to himself and speaks well of the effects. | believe it. 
Rites of passage are rare these days, and mostly fumbled 
when they occur. 
/t would be nice to know what’s going 
on and be able to get some help when spontaneous meta- 
morphosis has you spinning. 
Says Heard, if we tend properly to all the transitions, we 
will enable old people to be useful and growing, as seers. 
Gerald Heard is 80. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Peter Douthit/] 
from: 
| 
Julian Press 
150 Fifth Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10011 
The Five Ages of Man 
Gerald Heard 
1963; 393 pp. 
$8.50 postpaid - 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Briefly, then, this is the thesis of this book: man can train himself, 
and he has done so with increasing understanding. Although at first 
this training was implicit in a rite that worked without being 
consciously comprehended and, next, it was esoteric and a mystery 
understood only by psychophysical pioneers, today it can become 
explicitly exoteric, rendered in contemporary terms and applied with 
scientific exactitude and as a therapeutic education. Such an education 
can fully develop both an entire person and a complete society. 
It 
can produce a constituent able to accept and fulfill his whole personal 
process and also be the conscious, willing, and developmental unit of a 
civilization that is creatively run by a common consent and coterminous 
with a nonviolent mankind. 
410 
Culture 
Learning 
See Epilog, page 740 “Exploring Madness’” 
Skill 
Ever since his “expulsion from paradise,’’ man has been inclined 
to protest work as drudgery or as slavery, and to consider most 
fortunate those who seemingly can choose to work or not to work. 
The fact is that man must learn to work, as soon as his intelligence 
and his capacities are ready to be ‘‘put to work,” so that his ego’s 
powers may not atrophy. 
The rudiments of ski// add method to hope, will and purpose. Now, 
what ’’works” in the fabric of one’s thought and in cooperative 
encounters: 
a self-verification of lasting importance. All human 
environments, therefore, meet this stage with the offer of instruction 
in perfectable skills \eading to practical uses and significant 
achievements. 
All| cultures have their logic and their “truth,” which 
can be learned, by exercise, usage, and ritual. Where literacy is a 
common basis for all future specialization, the rulse of grammar and 
of algebra, of course, forma more abstract demonstration of the 
workings of reality. Thus workmanship and the reasonableness 
which comes from convincing experience prepare in the child a 
future sense of competency without which there can be no “strong 
ego.” Without it man feels inferior in his equipment, and in the 
hope to match an ever increasing section of manageable reality. 
with his growing capacities. 
Erik Erikson, The Roots of Virtue” 
- 
A meteorologist friend of Jellinek’s, caught in a thunderstorm on 
a Swiss peak, used the method. Having braced himself against the 
possibility of being struck, he was hit three times by lightning. But 
although his clothes were torn and his skin broken, because he was 
prepared he was neither stunned nor did he suffer ae A bus the 
surface abrasions. 
mi 
Initiations 
(5 mysteries) 
Rebirth (Earth) 
Catharsis (Water) 
Inspiration (air) 
Illumination (fire) 
Transformation (electricity) 
e 
It is now clear that before historic record, but well illustrated by suverb 
pictures, there was a culture that was preindividualistic and to some extent 
coconscious because it was under a comprehensive suggestion by imposed 
interpretation and rule. And even today there are fragmentary societies 
which (as in Australia and Papua) still seem to preserve much of the 
same cohesion and precritical amalgamation of psychological value and 
economic profit. Secondly, there is the Heroic Age, which helped to 
destroy the preindividual condition and which is itself only protoindividual; 
only crudely critical of the old order; childishly ignorant of its own 
weak ness and faults; boastful, displayful, and un-self-conscious in any 
sense of objective awareness. 
It did not understand, it simply reacted. 
Thirdly, this second stage is succeeded by one of self-questioning and 
criticism that produces a desire for self-improvement, self-discipline, and 
finally self-reduction. Then, with struggle, this ascetic, midindividualistic 
condition passes into the fourth stage when individualism attains 
totality. At first, man’s self-consciousness made him criticize only the 
tradition-bound group. Then it made him criticize himself. And now, 
in his complete self-confidence, he no longer sees any need either for 
boast and shame or for guilt and gratitude. He sees himself as neither 
condemning nor approving, as being the flawless mirror of the world 
that is as orderly (and so as repetitively aimless) as he is rational and 
inventively comprehending: 
These four phases have therefore given rise to four distinctive types: 
(1) the nonpersonal group constituent, (2) the hero, (3) the ascetic 
and (4) the humanic. And that, until the beginning of this century, 
seemed to be the culminant end of the story. 
For three reasons a specific treatment is required for the present 
dominant type, the totally self-conscious man, the person of first 
maturity. 
(1) Cut off from his own deep, intuitional mind, he must 
suffer increasingly from a subconscious anxiety. 
(2) Cut off from 
interior knowledge of his own body and function rhythms, he must 
be increasingly attacked by psychosomatic illness. 
(3) Cut off, 
psychologically, from the society whose granulation into separate 
cells he acutely expresses and coercively commands, he must create 
an international anarchy- 
The bigger logs, ablaze but not yet broken up by the fire, were arranged 
crosswise in the trench, above the bed of flarne made by the pieces that 
had broken down into small brands and bright charcoal. 
cattle-guard or corduroy walk was made, through which grate or grill 
, 
the flames rose. The priest with the wands, who had sat.before the fire 
while it was being lit and brought to full conflagration, had now moved 
and sat at one end of the trench with an assistant seated at the other. 
They stayed sitting like this for a few moments, after which all was 
ready for the therapy. The first to walk the length of the trench was one 
of the chief priests. By then a considerable portion of the lay congregation 
- had been brought near and lined up. Old people, the middle-aged, and 
youngsters—between seventy-five and one hundred persons went along — 
the trench. 
Dr. Campbell himself went in his turn.. He reports, 
“‘I 
deliberately stepped on some nice fat flames, smelled the hair burning ong 
my legs but found the flames were cool. When | put on my socks again. 
| found that my right ankle, which had been swollen and sore from a 
strain acquired at Ankor Vat some weeks before; had gone down to 
normal and no longer hurt. The next day | walked some nine or ten 
miles and the ankle was still OK. The skin of my feet had not been 
damaged in the least—not even reddened by the flames. 
. . 
. 
» 
and wavering light that should probably also have rhythmic light 
Manas 
| 
These guys, whoever they are, are all for making this a 
better place. They don’t shout and they don’t make funny. 
But they say a lot of good stuff for $5/yr. What got me on 
to them was that | read somewhere that Manas was a kind 
of unofficial organ of the humanistic psychology bunch. 
I’m not sure this fully explains them, as they don’t seem to 
follow any party line. They’ve got some heroes like Gandhi 
and Tolstoy, too; but they don’t go onandon. They 
comment on whoever has grist for the mill (Plato, Paul 
if 
Goodman, Peter S. Beagle, Christ knows who-all). They’ve 
turned me on to a whole hell of a lot of really great stuff. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
: , 
Richard Welsh] 
Manas 
- 
$5 /yr eae 
except July & August) 
from: 
Manas Publishing Company 
Box 32112 
El Sereno Station 
Los Angeles, CA 90032 
See Epilog, pages 456, 7 
If buddhism were to contribute to the “Global Canon” its assumptions 
of ‘Mind Only,"’ karma, and the Unity of Life, our ecological 
: 
exertions within a chilling space-time continuum might gain some 
impetus from the emotion Einstein speaks of. But the mahayana 
has more to offer. 
Its last words affect man alone, as the recipient 
of self-consciousness. suggesting to hima peak definition of 
himself. 
For he is here sponsored as an advanced candidate for 
Prajna, total Enlightenment through personal effort, in a world 
whose equilibriums, endlessly disturbed, are being as endlessly 
’ 
restored under a law of impartial justice. 
But then comes the rider. Despite appearances, the effort boom- 
erangs, the reward recedes, whenever Karuna, compassion, is 
é 
absent anywhere between the means and the end. Ruthless progress - 
is, in fact, not progress at all. 
: 
Soakindof 
— 
” 
The emergence of second maturity, the large class of healthy grandparent 
can be understood and be availed of only if we see that this fifth phase ~ 
is inevitable; that it is the essential requirement for the manning ofa 
fifth category of mankind, the fifth age of man asaraceandasa 
|
person. 
, 
Now, with old age and at the upper end, Nature restores freedom of 
choice and permits, once again, that rightful irresponsibility to enquire — 
and explore regardless of consequences. Being relieved of the armor 
. 
of authority and the enforcement instruments of command, those in 
second maturity are once more at liberty to enquire rather than to © 
order, and to question rather than reply. 
a
S
Second maturity is a return to a regeneralized outlook emotionally a’ 
intellectually, 
a resumption of generalized response. Hence, it can be — 
the state in which it would be natural for the capacity of seership to 
be attained, to re-emerge. And, with that capacity, to regain a genera 
affection, good will, and anxiety-free concern and vision into the nat 
time that would explicate death by uniting the mind with eternal li 
— a
e
The actual procedure of the water initiation would, then, involve fi 
immersian, naked and in a tank of circulating water kept at body 
temperature, and wherein the body would be irrigated exteriorly and = 
interiorly. The eyes could see, through a glass visor, the water-suffust 
" 
patterns given it by the use of a stroboscope. The ear should be 
vibrated by sound rhythms of a comparable frequency sent through the 
water, which is a better sound-carrying medium than air. In this 
~ 
medium and state the postulant should first be floated. But after ten’ 
minutes the water in the tank would be made to begin a pulsing, vortex 
movement. And against this whirlpool he would have to struggle unt 
exhausted. At this point he should achieve a further loss of self; 
he should emerge into an enlarged state of consciousness. 
t 
, 
it 
| 
