Candlemaking 
_I've been making candles for about a year now as a supplementary 
income for family of me, wife and bouncy baby boy, and | think 
| can make some useful suggestions and at the same time do a 
review of some candle supplies. 
First——wax. Don’t buy wax in the grocery store. 
\t comes in one 
Ib. boxes for sealing jelly and is prohibitively expensive. 
| used 
to buy wax from’a local hobby store (American Handicrafts——if . 
you don’t have anything against using names), until | noticed that 
their supplier was in Phila. So | went to the supplier and got it much 
cheaper. 
Until someone told me about getting wax from the oil 
companies which have refineries in Phila. So now | get wax from 
Atlantic-Richfield, delivered to my door (300 !b——five 60 Ib 
cartons; six 10 Ib. slabs per carton minimum order for free delivery) 
for only 12¢/Ib 
. Compare that to the hobby store price of 11 Ib. 
for $3.50 = 32¢/Ib. So try getting wax from oil companies near 
you. 
Next——molds. American Handicrafts has molds which work pretty 
well, but they are somewhat limited in variety. Another source of 
molds——somewhat higher in price but also excellent quality is 
the Pourette Mfg. Co., 6818 Roosevelt Way N.E., Seattle, Wash. 
98115. They also carry dyes, scents, wick, etc. etc. You can also 
use things like milk cartons, wine bottles, light bulbs, sharnpoo 
bottles, or sand to mold candles. Or if you have access to materials—— 
sheet metal—and rods—soldering iron. and sheet metal press——make 
your own molds. 
Third——dyes. The best place I’ve found for dyes is the 
J. & E. Polish Co. 
1036 Monrello St. 
Brockton, Mass. 
They have about thirty colors—inclding shrimp, sunshine 
yellow, cherry, red red, and mandarin to name a few neat names. 
The dyes are 1/2 oz. cakes of ‘‘concentrated” candle colors (at 
$3.50 per dozen) and are advertised as coloring 10-15 Ibs. of wax 
but I’ve done much more sometimes. 
; 
J. &. E. Polish also makes the best concentrate perfume oils I’ve 
used. They have about a dozen scents including hollyberry, coconut, 
apple blossom & cinnamon. (And the coconut really smells like 
coconut!) 
Pourette carries the widest variety of wick I’ve found. 
| don’t 
advise using string——candle wick is woven with a single tight 
strand so it bends over and burns right and is also treated chemically 
I think. 
; 
| think that’s about all——wax, wick, dyes & scents. One warning—— 
candle making can be a messy process if you spill wax around, so 
put down newspaper. Another warning>—heat wax in a double 
boiler——never directly over a flame. 
Go to a restaurant or cafeteria and get empty cans.. 
If you're lucky, 
they will have both 4 & 5 quart cans, which will make great free 
double boilers. 
¢ 
| forgot to say that you will probably have your choice of melting 
points if you get wax from an oil company. After experimenting 
with several | have found 143-148° wax the most versatile stuff. 
If I’m not careful this is going to turn into a book on candle 
making so | think I'll stop here. 
Pax, 
David Inouye 
> 
Swarthmore, Pa. 
The Japanese Art of Miniature Trees and 
Landscapes 
: 
This is the ultimate in model-making. 
Tiny trees in tiny 
scenes, and a'careful, happy person hovering in the sky 
nearby. 
This book is really thorough on the science and 
the art of bonsai. The standard work. 
3 
—SB 
The Japanese Art of Miniature Trees and Landscapes 
Yuji Yoshimura and Giovanna M. Halford 
1957; 220 pp. 
ji 
$1 0.95 sete 
from: 
° 
Charles E. Tuttle Company 
- 
ae 
28 S. Main St. 
Rutland, Vermont 05701 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Modern Art of Candle Creating 
There's lots of wimpy books on candle-making, and this 
is one of them. But it is better than the others—more and 
wider technique. - 
. 
—SB 
Modern Art of Candle Creating 
Don Olsen 
Wick 
1963; 152 pp. 
Ts 
. 
Lari 
$7.50 postpaid 
from: 
A. S. Barnes & Co. 
Box 421 
Cranbury, N. J. 08512 
: 
Proper 
Sinead 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Wick 
RULES TO REMEMBER 
To get the most out of your mold, abide by the following rules: 
Never strike it with a hard object. 
Never place it in an oven with a temperature exceeding 175 
degrees. 
Never scratch the interior with a sharp instrument or 
abrasive. 
Never loan to friends unless they know how to care for it. 
Store in a warm, dry place to prevent rust; keep covered to 
protect interior from dust. 
F 
If you should find it necessary to clean your mald of contiminated 
or ‘stubborn wax,” use one of these methods: 
Easy Method. Pour your next candle with the wax at 230 
degrees. This usually cleans the mold and absorbs stubborn wax. 
Fig. 17.—Removing old soil and trimming roots. A) Before begin- 
ning. 1) Lines mark two-thirds of old soil to be removed in 2nd Step 
of cleansing. 2) Lines mark one-third of lateral roots to be trimmed 
away. 3) Lines mark one-half 
.of old soil to be removed in 3rd Step, 
and, in the case of deciduous trees only, of bottom roots to be trim- 
med away. 4) Line marks bottom roots to be trimmed from evergreen 
needle trees. B) After finishing. 5) Remaining nucleus of old soil. 
6) Alternating slices of old soil removed 
this potting in 4th Step. 
7) Slices to be removed next potting. 
aN 
Celebration! Candle Supplies 
We have a candle “‘factory”’ and shop here in Northern Michigan. 
In our attempt to produce the best quality candle at the lowest cost 
we have experimented with many dye and scent manufacturers, wick 
making companies, mold makers etc. We now have excellent sources 
for our materials and find that, since it is cheapest to buy them in 
large quantity we are in a position where we can break the supplies 
down into smaller quantities and resell them. Not only are our 
supplies better than anything we've found available to the general 
public, we can under cut everyone else’s prices. 
; 
Here, for example, are how our prices compare to others: Dye—— 
we can provide enough dye to color 20 lbs. of wax for 35 cents. 
Pourette, a national candle supply pusher, will sell you enough to 
do 10 lbs for 25 cents. American Handicraft, a chain store——I 
-don’t know if they are on the West coast or not, will sell you dye 
for 12 lbs. for 39 cents——and it’s very poor quality.’ Michael’s, 
an other craft chain sells dye for 50 cents——they don’t say how 
much it will color but from the way it looks and feels I know it 
won't color 20 lbs. Even the local “head” shops dye is 39 cents 
for 12 lbs worth of dye. And let me stress that our dye is of a 
much higher quality than any of the above. I’ve enclosed samples 
of our orange and lemon yellow——we have many other colors. 
Scent runs much the same: 
Celebration! — 1 oz. for $1.25 
Pourette — 4 oz. for 75 cents. 
Am. Handicraft — 14 oz. for 79 cents; 
Again our scent is of a higher quality. Most craft companies dilute 
the scent before they sell it and this damages potency. Both 
American Handicraft and Poureite say their Y2 oz. will scent 3-4 
lbs of wax——figure our 12 oz. will scent 6-8 lbs of wax. 
Wick——we have an excellent source of wick. The most important 
part of a good burning candle is the wick——we have a fine metal 
core wick which we use in everything from our 3” diameter candles 
. up to our 7” diameter candles. In our 3”’ candle it consumes all 
the candle, in our 4” diameter and larger candles it burns a well down 
into the candle——with the proper amount of steric acid (we can sell 
for $1.10 a lb comparéd to Am. Handicraft—69 cents for 4 oz.) this 
wick will not flood out. It’s great. We can sellit for 10 cents a 
yard——Pourette is 15 cents a yard and Amer. Handicraft is even 
more——and of disgusting quality. 
We have other sizes also but 
this is best. 
We also have molds but currently I can’t estimate those prices—— 
byt they will be good. 
Because our prices are cut to the bone we will have to charge for 
postage——but Pourette and American Handicraft both do that 
even with their high prices. 
Due to the fact that we are currantly renovating one floor of a 
beautiful old building to move our shop into and making the dirty, 
old, big basement over as anew location for our “factory”, plus 
we have back orders for wholesale candles——and on top of that 
I am trying to finish up my undergraduate crap at Mchigan State 
University, I have not gotten the catalog of our supplies together 
yet. This is why I am sending you the above information, and 
samples, instead of our catalog. I think from the information I’ve 
included you can see that we are trying to do a good thing. If 
you think we might fill the need for a candle making materials 
supplier in the Whole Earth Catalog it would be wonderful. 
You 
could run our name and address telling people to write to us for 
our catalog. If you could also ask people to send 25 cents to cover 
printing costs it would help us out a great deal. 
Thank you for taking the time to read this. I hope it works out. 
Thank you also for doing the Whole Earth Catalog——you have 
really fulfilled a need. 
I'll miss you when you stop but I think your 
idea of “‘stopping’’ would be a good one for others to follow. 
Peace, 
Bill Decker 
Celebration! Candle Supplies 
P.O. Box 28 
Pentwater, Michigan 49448 
See Epilog, page 555 
Fattne aa 
es 
a 
D.R. stepped out of the booth and handed the phone to 
Estelle. 
: 
"Hi baby,” said the Flash. 
‘’How’s your life?” 
"Fucking miserable,” said Estelle. 
“How’s yours?” 
“Better than yours, obviously. 
What's going on?” 
"It’s too long and too weird to tell,” said Estelle. 
‘What's 
happening in California?” 
“Angel bought a farm in Oregon,” said the Flash. 
“Two 
hundred acres. 
Her and Speed. 
They‘re into goats and bee 
hives.” 
"Ear out,” said Estelle. 
Suddenly she was smiling, and there 
was genuine cheer in her voice. 
“Far fucking out. 
They really 
did it.” 
“Two hundred acres,” said the Flash. 
“I was up there the 
other day, it’s really a neat scene. 
She was asking about you.” 
"Fantastic! 
Tell ‘em hello, okay? 
Tell ‘em I'll come see 
‘em.” 
“Will do,” said the Flash. 
“Any other news, comments, hits, 
reports or flashes from the hinterlands?” 
Poem 
"It’s grim,” said Estelle. 
“’ “Nuff said.” 
“Well,” said the Flash. 
‘Every cloud has a silver lining, and 
the darkest hour is just before dawn, and such like bullshit.” 
"You're stoned,” said Estelle. 
"Ah, yes, the blessed stated. 
As a matter of fact, the old 
fire is waning a bit, | better go stoke it up a little. 
But listen 
you guys, call me again, you hear? 
I'm interested in your fate.” 
“Sure,” Estelle laughed. 
‘We'll give you a weekly casualty 
report. 
Listen honey, it’s nice to talk to you. 
Take care, okay?” 
The Flash said he would take care. 
Estelle hung up then, 
and as soon as she did the smile vanished from her face. 
Without 
saying a word to each other, D.R. and Estelle went back to City 
Girl's apartment to get their stuff, and to tell everyone goodbve. 
Candles & Bonsai 
Craft 
el 
he, 
i gine} 
