The Hallucinogens 
You wouldn‘t nose out onto the freeway if you didn’t know 
how to drive, and you damn well shouldn't go playing “eat 
me’ and “drink me” unless you know what you're about. 
Here, in a book ostensibly for the medical profession, is 
the whole story to date: Hoffer and Osmond know more 
about this field than anyone else in the world, and their 
aim is to investigate it further. Osmond is one of the unsung 
sages of our times, working quietly in his own way to find 
out the nature of human nature. 
(He is a leading researcher 
into schizophrenia, the coiner of the word “‘psychedelic”’, 
the doctor who gave Huxley his mescalin, and is into a hundred 
other interesting things, including the reliability of the Jungian 
personality types. 
There are at least a few pages on every 
hallucinogen you've ever heard of, and on a lot you haven't; 
e.g.: the “dream fish” kyphosus fuscus, and the plants the 
ancient Norse used to induce the state of “‘berserk”’ (and 
why it became, among themselves, illegal.) Where previous 
experimenters have used themselves as guinea-pigs, their 
diaries are reprinted, e.g.: Wasson’s trips with psilocyba 
mushrooms. 
!n most cases, Osmond has tried the stuff 
himself; and he is a very patient, understanding and aware 
guinea-pig indeed. For people who remember their college 
chemistry, the molecular diagrams are here, for people 
who want to read more an exhaustive index shows you 
the way. 
This is a source book of knowledge, but by the 
by Osmond has two main observations of a philosophical 
nature: 
1) man has been looking for hallucinogens from 
the beginning, and has been finding them, and 2) you 
don’t get something for nothing. 
You can believe this 
man; he has smoked with the best of them, and popped 
things into his mouth that haven't been tried in a few 
centuries. 
Warning: not reading this book may be injurious to your 
health. 
[Suggested and reviewed by Stephan Chodorov] 
_Psychedelics 
A fine collection of the best papers by the man who coined 
the word psychedelic. Some good research got done before 
the Federal ban. 
—SB 
Psychedelics 
Bernard Aaronson, Humphrey Osmond, eds. 
1970; 512 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
Doubleday & Company, Inc. 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, N.Y..11530 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Once out of the water, | started climbing the mountain on a sacred 
pilgrimage. 
| stopped to examine small flowers and brightly colored 
rocks. 
| picked the flowers, putting them in my hair. The 
world shone with the joy of existence. 
Again on level ground, | ran along, feeling Indian things. With 
virtually no plant growth in «ight, | was hacking my way through 
jungles. | saw visions of snake gods, and received stories to take to 
my people. When | looked down to the oasis below, my friends, 
the others there, the wind caressing the water — all poignantly 
symbolized the human condition. Everybody should have a chance 
to see this vast panorama of man’s existence on earth. To see the 
tides of nature, as | did then, seems an overwhelmingly marvelous 
thing in itself. 
—Peter Stafford 
e 
Shortly after this my fellow observers left for what must have been 
twenty minutes or so, but it could have been as many centuries. 
| 
stayed behind with the Indians, and | became part of the worshipers. 
! entered their world, where for generation upon generation they 
had hunted the buffalo. They had lived with and on the buffalo. 
They were of one piece. They were the buffalo. Their lives were 
part of those shaggy lumbering herd beasts whose myriads roamed 
the great plains. On these wide prairies, where trees and hills are 
almost equally scarce, sound often conveyed as much as sight. So 
the Indians call up their past with song, with drum, and with rattle. 
For them, minute alterations of rhythm and pace evoke ever- 
changing images. Because we cannot hear as they do, the drumming 
and rattling seem endlessly repetitive to us. The drumming was the 
steady running of a man with his dog padding beside him. 
It was 
the pawing and thudding of buffalo hooves crescendoing in thunder. 
It was the gentle crumpling of dung falling or the soft plop of a calf 
dropping on turf, soundless, yet heard by the hunter. The gourd 
evoked the endlessly sifting wind, catching at scrub and grass as it 
passed. 
|t was the hissing of an arrow as it leaves the bow or snakes 
by one’s head in battle. 
It was the sizzling of buffalo meat grilling 
on the campfire and the creak of a hide tepee as the blizzard twists 
and whirls around it. The drumming was life and death, scarlet 
blood spurting from a stricken buffalo or from a fallen warrior. Yet 
it was also the first fluttering of a child inside its mother. As he 
sang, a young man wept, and Frank Takes Gun said, “‘Shed tears on 
mother earth that the Universal God may take pity on him.” 
When my friends returned, | felt that the Indians and | were one and 
that, for a little time, or more accurately, a different sort of time, | 
was of their world rather than that of my colleagues, their 
conquerers. 
It was not simply that I realized they had a point of 
view | could respect, but that | felt in my bones as they felt in theirs. 
Looking back, | do not believe that this was an illusion, for | con- 
tinued to be much more aware of their way of looking at things. 
But how could one prove such an opinion — without fine instru- 
ments for measuring a man’s system of values. 
Pe 
—Humphrey Osmond 
1 
Psychedelics 
Learning 
QP 
hagfer 
cont FE Cerny 
THE HALLUCINOGENS 
The Hallucinogens 
A. Hoffer and H. Osmond 
1967; 626 pp. 
$1 4.75 postpaid 
from: 
Academic Press 
111 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Perhaps nutmeg pastry is popular because of the myristicin it con- 
tains. A feeling of well-being, following the ingestion of these cakes, 
might easily lead to a conditioned reaction to this pastry. 
In the 
same way it is likely that adrenoxy! is used by surgeons because of 
the feeling of well-being it induces in their patients, and not because 
it isa valuable hemostatic agent (Hoffer and Osmond, 1960). The 
euphorient or relaxant properties of nutmeg and of myristicin should 
be examined carefully. Too little attempt has been made by modern 
man to discover safe plant antitension and euphorient remedies. 
There is a difference between LSD and other hallucinogenic com- 
pounds. LSD seems in small doses to act as a-stimulant not unlike 
amphetamines, in larger doses it seems to possess a depressant effect. 
Other hallucinogenic compounds tend to have depressant effects at 
all the dose levels. 
We had, as we later learned, merely hit upon a solution to alcoholism 
which the Native American Church of North America, or its 
antecedent groups, had used long before. According to Slotkin 
(1956) the Indians believed peyote took away the desire for strong 
drink and claimed that hundreds of drunkards had been ‘’dragged 
from their downward way."’ The smal! band of Indians in Saskat- 
chewan who allowed us to observe their ceremonies one night, 
explained that their religion based upon God and the Use of peyote 
to reach Him included three important principles: 
(a) The member 
must be a good man, (b) he must educate himself, and (c) he must 
not drink. Thus we can only conclude that the peyote religion is 
the chief variable. Several Indians related to us how they had 
achieved sobriety only after this church. 
Mr. Russell had the black drum passed to him. He sucked a little 
water from it, tautened the hide, and smoothed it with a caress. 
Frank Takes Gun explained the next part of the ceremony. “You 
have only seen three last night — the leader, the drummer, and the 
fireman. Now you will see the fourth. Thank God we have lived to 
see another day. We represent our lives: we don’t imitate anything. 
The foundations of human tife rest with our mothers who delivered 
us into this world.’’ The Mother stepped into the tepee through the 
door flap, announced by the shrilling of the eagle’s-bone whistle. 
She sat down by the white enamel waterpot. The tepee was dim, 
the fire was low, but some wisps of smoke rising from it seemed to 
surround her. She had a red blanket around her shoulders, a blue 
dress, smooth black hair, and her face seemed very broad. She was 
greeted by a song of welcome with voices, drum, and rattle. With 
the singing, she became superb mother earth, mother prairie, grass, 
cow buffalo, mare, and doe, the epitome.of motherhood. The drum 
beating was not restful or sleep inducing. 
!t was the fecund pulsing 
of sex, passion, generation, and death, sung without guilt and 
without self-consciousness. The mother was weary, patient, tender, 
butenduring. She stood behind all the men — drummer, fire tender, 
leader. 
In front of her were the waters of life and death. 
© 
Frank addressed her in the highest falsetto, a tearing, almost 
noiseless scream, the cry of the tiniest baby or of an old man 
breathing his last. 
1t was unbearable. The mother could have been 
any age — maid, mother, or crone, from sixteen to a hundred 
sixteen. 
“You. have been good to us while we were here. You worked hard 
and made this possible. God knows we worship Him. God knows 
we respect the mothers of our children.” 
The happy, oceanic feeling so often experienced by normal subjects 
was also evident among preterminal patients. 
It could be noted up 
to twelve days following the administration of LSD... A certain 
change in philosophic and religious approach to dying took place 
that is not reflected in the numerical data presented here... Real 
terror experienced upon the contemplation of death in preterminal 
patients, as well as in normals, consists of fear of the loss of control 
of internal functions and environmental influences. 
It is self-evident 
that control can be achieved only to a very limited degree, but this 
small degree of control has enormous survival value. 
In conjunction 
with this actually very limited ability to influence internal and 
external events, goes a fantasy-feeling of power to shape one’s fate 
and an adult elaboration of the infantile feeling of omnipotence and 
omnipresence. The realization of imminent death obviously deals 
a heavy blow to that fantasy. 
During and after LSD administration, acceptance and surrender to 
the inevitable loss of control were noted; and this control is 
anxiously maintained and fought for in non-drugged patients. LSD 
administration apparently eases the blow that impending death deals 
to the fantasy of infant omnipotence, not necessarily by augment- 
ing the infantile process, but by relieving the mental apparatus of 
the compelling need to maintain the infantile fantasy. Parallel to 
the general improvement in the patient’s feelings, mood, and conflict 
situation, sleep patterns improved for approximately twelve to 
fourteen days... 
The results of this study seem to indicate that LSD is not only 
capable of improving the lot of preterminal patients by making 
them more responsive to their environment and family, but it also 
enhances their ability to appreciate the subtle and aesthetic nuances 
of experience. This increased delicate sensitivity is as marked as 
that usually encountered in normal volunteers subjected to LSD. 
Here, however, this imagery not only gives aesthetic satisfaction, but 
creates a new will to live and a zest for experience that, against a 
background of dismal darkness and preoccupying fear, produces an 
exciting and promising outlook. Patients who had been listless and 
depressed were touched to tears by the discovery of a depth of 
feeling of which they had not thought themselves capable. Although 
short-lived and transient, this happy state of affairs was a welcome 
change in their monotonous and isolated lives, and recollection of 
this experience days later often created similar elation. Of course, 
these subtleties cannot be appraised in numerical terms. 
In human 
terms, however, the short but profound impact of LSD on the dying 
patient was impressive. 
—Eric C. Kast 
Acorus calamus is a plant known in Asia, Europe, and North America 
for its medicinal properties. 
It was also known as flag root, rat root, 
- 
and sweet calomel. During the great depression of the 1930's it was 
chewed in England by people unable to buy tobacco. 
Recently one of our informants well acquainted with the habits of 
the Indians of northern Canada, reported his personal experiences with 
rat root collected in northern Alberta by the Cree. He reported that 
nearly all the Indians over age 40 used rat root regularly but the 
younger Indians were unfamiliar with it and its use was discouraged 
by physicians who practiced there. Rat root users seemed to be healthier, 
and were not subject to alcoholism. The Indians used rat root (a) as 
an antifatigue medicine (they chewed about 1 inch of the dried root 
which had a diameter equal to a pencil); (b) as an analgesic for 
relieving toothache, headache, etc; (c) for relief of asthma; (d) for 
oral hygiene, and (e) to relieve hangover. 
i 
Our informant had over the years tested these medicinal qualities 
and generally confirmed them. 
It was particularly effective for allevi- 
ating fatigue. On one occasion, he walked 12 miles in the northern 
woods to fight a forest fire. He was out of condition and was exhausted 
at the end of the march. Hé chewed and swallowed 2 inches of rat 
root. Within 10 minutes the fatigue vanished and on the return march 
_ 
he seemed to be walking 1 foot above the ground and felt wonderful. - 
i 
The effect was very unlike amphetamine. On his return homehe 
| 
yl 
was very exhausted but after a night’s sleep was normal. 
= 
LSD was used not only in ‘‘Island,’’ but in Chicago to relieve pain. It 
has powerful analgesic properties. Kast and Collins (1964) gave LSD 
to a group of patients many of whom knew they were dying of terminal — 
cancer. 
In addition to their relief from pain some of the patients de- 
- 
veloped a peculiar disregard for the gravity of their situation. They 
i 
spoke freely of their impending death with much less depression 
q
than they had had previously. The newer attitude to death fasted much 
— 
| 
longer than the analgesic action. 
It is likely those who have a visionary, 
psychedelic or transcendental reaction may equate this with life after 
death. This would account for the new more beneficial frame of 
a 
mind for those patients who were dying. 
: 
One of.our subjects recently told us that since his psychedelic exper- 
; 
ience severat years ago, he no longer feared death. 
: 
oe 
e 
The bark of the root of Tabernanthe iboga contains about 12 alka- 
loids (Downing, 1962). Of these the best known is ibogaine, a trypt- 
amine derivative. This plant, named in 1889 by Baillon, was used by 
the natives of West Africa and the Congo to increase resistance against 
fatigue and tiredness and as an aphrodisiac. Dybowski and Landrin 
: 
(1901) extracted the psychologically active alkalaid which they named 
ibogaine. They reported that the natives considered the plant equiva- 
lent or similar to alcohol, that it was a stimulant which did not disturb 
the thought processes of the user. 
The recent impassioned discussions of the possible effects of LSD on 
chromosomes is paralleled by similar discussions over masturbation. 
It was stated with the utmost confidence that not only would the 
| 
secret vice result in the collapse and insanity of those who practiced 
4 
it, but should they be unfortunate enough to survive to adulthood, 
BI 
their children would suffer for their sins. There was no evidence 
2 
for this, but it did not prevent men of the highest integrity from 
: 
stating that it was undoubtedly so. 
A 
a 
$ 
ie 
While not everyone might choose to die with his mind stimulated by 
LSD, as did Aldous Huxley (Huxley, L.A., 1968), rather than dulled 
4 
i 
by morphine, such matters call for careful. consideration, for each OG 
us owes God a death. 
a 
ey 
. 
- 
If Victor Gioscia (1969) is correct, and there is an LSD subculture, 
| 
the dangers, particularly to those under thirty, require very careful 
4 
consideration. 
Leaving out chromosome damage, perhaps the 
aay 
most dramatic misfortune is the development of a schizophreniform 
illness. There is no doubt that this can happen, though it is not 
clear how often it does. Certain myths current among some young 
drug takers increase the danger. One of the most unfortunate is 
- that the appropriate remedy for a bad trip is another one, frequently 
‘1 
| 
~ 
with a larger dose than that which produced the first one. This 
t 
notion is on a par with the alcoholic slogan of having a hair, or even 
the tail, of “‘the dog that bit you.” The sensible response toabad 
= 
trip is not to have another, but to seek competent advice and 
 - 
guidance without delay. Some people, who are clearly developing 
schizophrenia and have disturbances of perception (Hoffer and 
Osmond, 1966a) combined with usually depressed mood changes, 
; 
with anxiety and sometimes thinking difficulties, take psychedelics = 
because they have heard, or hope, that they will help. The most. 
ya 
probable outcome is a severe and prolonged bad trip, or sometimes 
; 
the precipitation of a more-severe and actue illness. If.these dangers 
- — 
were more widely known and understood, many young people 
: 
would avoid trying to treat themselves by ‘these desperate 
means 
and avoid much unhappiness and distress. 
<See
The sociological, psychological, political, and other consequences 
of psychedelic experience, however induced, occurring in the 
majority or even a substantial minority of a postindustrial popula- 
tion, is likely to affect most of us far more than a few space jaunts 
{ 
for carefully selected heroes and heroines. The record is merciless: 
; 
: 
_ practical men of sound sense are nearly always wrong about the 
future, though never lacking in certainty. While the winds of change — 
strum to gale force around us, they perform their ostrich acts and 
ae 
proclaim that they have everything under control. But the gale 
ed 
| 
does not blow itself out because of their rhetoric, and to survive, 
| | 
we need to set a course that carries us into the future. Some years 
4 | 
ago one of us wrote (Osmond, 1957a): 
‘ 
. .these agents have a part to play in our survival as a species, for 
; 
that survival-depends as much on our opinion of our fellows and 
% 
ourselves as on any other single thing. The Seas 
0 
help us 
to explore and fathom our own nature. 
; 
eR 
We can perceive ourselves as the stampings of an automatic socio: 
Aig 
economic process, as highly plastic and conditionable animals, 
d 
as congeries of instinctive strivings ending in loss of sexual drive 
and death, as cybernetic gadgets, or even as semantic conundrums. 
All of these concepts have their supporters and they all have some 
degree of truth in them. We may also be something more, ‘‘a part 
of the main,’ a striving sliver of a creative process, a manifestation 
of Brahma in Atman, an aspect of an infinite God immanent and 
— 
; 
transcendent within and without us. These very different valuings 
__ 
of the self and of other people’s selves have all been held sincerely 
by men and women. 
| expect that even what seem the most 
a 
extreme notions are held by some contributors to these pages. 
Can one doubt that the views of the world derived from such 
differing concepts are likely to differ greatly, and that the courses 
of action determined by those views will differ. . .? 
3 
. .| believe that the psychedelics provide a chance, perhaps only 
a slender one, for homo faber, the cunning, ruthless, foolhardy, 
pleasure-greedy toolmaker, to merge into that other creature 
whose presence we have so rashly presumed, homo sapiens, the 
wise, the understanding, the compassionate, in whose fourfold 
vision art, politics, science, and religion are one. Surely we must 
seize that chance. . . 
