Buckminster Fuller 
_ The insights 
of Buckminster F. uller initiated this catalog. 
_ Among his books listed here, Utopia or Oblivion is now 
_ probably the most direct introduction. 
It’s a collection of | 
his talks and papers from 1964 to 1967, at a bargain price. 
_ An Operating Manual for Spaceship Earth is his most recent, 
_and succinct, statement. Nine Chains to the Moon /s 
_ early, and openly metaphysical. The Untitled Epic of 
_Industrialization js /yrical and strong. Ideas and Integrities 
e is his most autobiographical, and perhaps the most self- 
contained of his books. No More Secondhand God is the 
mest generalized, leading into the geometry of thought. 
_ People who beef about Fuller mainly complain about his 
. __ repetition——the same ideas again and again, it’s em- 
F, 
 barrassing, also illuminating, because the same notions take 
| 
ondifferent contexts. 
Fuller’s lectures have a raga quality 
| __ of rich nonlinear endless improvisation full of convergent 
____ surprises. 
Some are put off by his language, which makes demands on 
_ your head like suddenly discovering an extra engine in your 
car——if you don’t let it drive you faster, it'll drag you. 
Fuller won't wait. He spent two years silent after illusory 
a language got him in trouble, and he returned to human 
communication with a redesigned instrument. 
a 
—SB 
_ Utopia or Oblivion 
~ R. Buckminster Fuller 
1969; 366pp. 
$1.25 postpaid 
. 
_ from: 
_ Bantam Books 
666 Fifth Avenue 
New York, New York 10019 
‘or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
My: ‘recommendation for a curriculum of design science: 
x 34 . Synergetics 
7. Communications 
2. General systems theory 
8. Meteorology 
_ 3. Theory of games (Von 
9. Geology 
~ Neumann) 
10. Biology 
Chemistry and physics 
11. Sciences of energy 
5. Topology, projective 
12) Political geography 
geometry 
= 
13. Ergonomics 
_ 
6. Cybernetics 
- 
14. Production engineering 
e 
Here on Southern !Ilinois’ campus we are going to set up a great 
; _ 
computer program. We are going to introduce the many variables 
~ now known to be operative in economics. We will store all the 
basic data in the machines memory bank; where and how 
much of each class of the physical resources; where are the people; 
what are the trendings—all kinds of trendings of world man? 
‘ 
: 
: 
{ 
ext we are going to set up a computer feeding game, called 
How Do We Make the World Work?” We will start playing 
latively soon. We will bring people from all over the world to 
_ play it. There will be competitive teams from all around earth 
: 
est their theories on how to make the world work. If a team 
resorts to political pressures to accelerate their advantages and is 
t able to wait for the going gestation rates to validate their 
Beery they are apt to be in trouble. When you get into politics you 
are very liable to get-into war. War is the ultimate tool of politics. 
f war develops the side inducing it loses the game. 
: 
was gues cross-eyed. Not until i 
was four years old was it dis- 
covered that this was caused by my being abnormally farsighted. 
My vision was thereafter fully corrected with lenses. 
Until four | 
_ could see only large patterns, houses, trees, outlines of people with 
blurred coloring. While | saw two dark areas on human faces, | did 
on ot see a human eye or a teardrop or a human hair until | was four. 
spite my new ability to apprehend details, my childhood’s ° 
spontaneous Sa alii only uae big pattern clues has 
sted. 
J ae that neither | nor any other human, past or present, 
jas 
or isa genius. | am convinced that what | have every physically 
4 
normal child also has at birth. We could, of course, hypothesize 
that all babies are born geniuses and get swiftly de-geniused. Un- 
orable circumstances, shortsightedness, frayed nervous systems, 
and ignorantly articulated love and fear of elders tend to shut off 
n 
pany of the child’s brain capability valves. 
| was lucky in avoiding 
20. 
many disconnects. 
— 
re iS Juck in everything. My luck is that | was born cross-eyed, 
cted so frequently from the establishment that | was finally 
ther to perish or to employ some of those faculties with 
ich 
we are all endowed——the use of which circumstances had 
iously so frustrated as to have to put them in the deep freezer, 
ice only hellishly hot situations could provide enough heat to 
them back into usability. 
rer 
Utopia or Oblivion 
- 
Bee 
w 
fc 
Operating Manual for Spaceship Earth 
Buckminster Fuller 
1969; 133pp. 
$1 50 postpaid 
from: 
Pocket Books, Inc. 
1 W. 39th St. 
New York, N.Y. 10018 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
To comprehend this total scheme we note that long ago a man went 
through the woods, as you may have done, and | certainly have, 
trying to find the shortest way through the woods in a given direc- 
tion. He found trees fallen across his path. He climbed over those 
crisscrossed trees and suddenly found himself poised on a tree that 
was slowly teetering. 
It happened to be lying across another great 
tree, and the other end of the tree on which he found himself 
teetering lay under a third great fallen tree. As he teetered he saw 
the third big tree lifting. 
It seemed impossible to him. ,He went 
over and tried using his own muscles to lift that great tree. 
He 
couldn‘t budge it. Then he climbed back atop the first smaller 
tree, purposefully teetering it, and surely enough it again elevated 
the larger tree. I’m certain that the first man who found such a 
tree thought that it was a magic tree, and may have dragged it 
home and erected it as man’s first totem. 
It was probably’a long 
time before he learned that any stout tree would do, and thus 
extracted the concept of the generalized principle of leverage out 
of all his earlier successive special-case experiences with such 
accidental discoveries. 
- 
To begin our position-fixing aboard our Spaceship Earth we must 
first acknowledge that the abundance of immediately consumable, 
obviously desirable or utterly essential resources have been 
sufficient until now to allow us to carry on despite our ignorance. 
Being eventually exhaustible and spoilable, they have been adequate 
only up to this critical moment. This cushion-for-error 
of 
humanity's survival and growth up to now was apparently provided 
just as a bird inside of the egg is provided with liquid nutriment to 
develop it to a certain point. But then by design fhe nutriment is 
exhausted at just the time when the chick is large enough to be able 
to locomote on its own legs. And so as the chick pecks at the shell 
seeking more nutriment it inadvertently breaks open the shell. 
e 
A new, physically uncomprised, metaphysical initiative of unbiased 
integrity could unify the world. It could and probably will be 
provided by the utterly impersonal problem solutions of the 
computers. 
P 
e 
Heisenberg’s principle of ‘indeterminism’ which recognized the 
experimental discovery that the act of measuring always alters 
that which was being measured turns experience into a continuous 
and never-repeatable evolutionary scenario. 
@ 
The gold supply is so negligible as to make it pure voodoo to 
attempt to valve the world’s economic evolution traffic through 
the gold-sized needle’s ‘eye’. 
e 
Brain deals exclusively with the physical, and mind exclusively 
with the metaphysical. Wealth is the progressive mastery of 
matter by mind... 
: 
e 
Stepping forth from its initial sanctuary, the young bird must now 
forage on its own legs and wings to discover the next phase of its 
regenerative sustenance. 
Nine Chains to the Moon 
sam 
Buckminster Fuller — - 
: 
OTe 
1938, 1963; 375 pp. 
MOON 
A BecuaesTUn ULL 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
Doubleday and Co., Inc. 
Garden City, L.1., N.Y. 11530 
Since Yogi is a personalized art, the art dies with the person. The 
abstract power involved remains as real and true, always, but it cannot 
be made utilizable in increasing continuity for the world in general. 
Christ and his counterparts realized this and were unique in their 
refusal to apply this power to self ends. !t was this personal limitation 
of the Yogi art which led the prosaic philosophers to search further. 
They sought a means of limitless articulation. 
® 
This phantom captain has neither weight nor sensorial tangibility, as 
has often been scientifically proven by careful weighing operations 
at the moment of abandonment of the ship by the phantom captain, 
i.e., at the instant of ‘’death’’. He may be likened to the variant of 
polarity dominance in our bipolar electric world which, when balanced 
and unit, vanishes as abstract unity 1 or 0. With the phantom captain's 
departure, the mechanism becomes inoperative and very quscrly 
disintegrates into basic chemical elements. 
’ An illuminating rationalization indicated that captains—being phantom, 
abstract, infinite, and bound to other captains by a bond of under- 
standing as proven by their recognition of each other's signals and the 
meaning thereof by reference to 
acommon direction (toward 
“perfect’’)—are not only all related, but are one and the same captain. 
Mathematically, since characteristics of unity exist, they cannot be 
non-identical. 
© 
‘ 
‘Still further——over the microphone STEPPED-UP electrically this 
music enters a super-or-sub-sensorial wave-length frequency that 
makes it broadcastable, apparently BACK INTO THE UNIVERSE 
AGAIN, the full LATENT broadcast of which men on ships at sea, 
an aviator in the air, or Julia Murphy ina 
city hovel, or the farmer’s 
wife, can tune in upon, without any personal-equation dissonnance 
by unwanted diverting human beinas in their presence, and so hear 
the music of the universe that Bach heard years ago. 
‘Here is IMMORTALITY" 
‘Darling,’——that radiant flash of infinite understanding had flashed 
between Jonesie and the X-ian——‘Ican understand those houses 
all right.’ 
Untitled Epic Poem on the 
History of Industrialization 
Buckminster Fuller 
1962; 227pp. 
$1 95 postpaid 
from 
Simon & Schuster, Inc. 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, New York 10020 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
However, 
man unconcernedly sorting mail on an express train, 
with unuttered faith that 
the engineer is competent, 
that the switchmen are not asleep, 
that the track walkers are doing their job, 
that the technologists 
who designed the train and the rails 
knew their stuff, 
that the thousands of others 
whom he may never know by face or name 
are collecting tariffs, 
paying for repairs, 
and so handling assets 
that he will be paid a week from today 
and again the week after that, 
and that all the time 
his family is safe and in well being 
without his personal protection 
constitutes a whole new era of evolution— 
the first really “‘new” 
since the beginning of the spoken word, 
In fact, out of the understanding 
innate in the spoken word 
was Industrialization wrought 
after milleniums 
of seemingly whitherless spade work. 
Ideas and Integrities 
Buckminster Fuller 
1963; 318pp. 
$1 .95 postpaid 
from: 
Collier Books 
The MacMillan Company 
Order Dept. 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, N.J. 08075 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Standing by the lake on a jump-or-think basis, the very first spontan- 
eous question coming to mind was, ’‘If you put aside everything 
you've ever been asked to believe and have recourse only to your 
own experiences do you have any conviction arising from those ex- 
periences which either discards or must assume ana 
priori greater 
intellect than the intellect of man?’’ The answer was swift and 
positive. Experience had clearly demonstrated an a priori anticipa® 
tory and only intellectually apprehendable orderliness of interac- 
tive principles operating in the universe into which we are born. 
These principles are discovered but are never invented by man. 
| 
said to myself, *‘| have faith in the integrity of the anticipatory 
intellectual wisdom which we may call ‘God.’ ‘’ My next question 
was, “‘Do | know best or does God know best whether | may be 
of any value to the integrity of universe?’’ The answer was, 
“You don’t know and no man knows, but the faith you have just 
established out of experience imposes recognition of the a priori 
wisdom of the fact of your being.”” Apparently addressing my- 
self, | said, ““You do not have the right to eliminate yourself, 
you do not belong to you. You belong to the universe. The 
significance of you will forever remain obscure to you, but you may 
assume that you are fulfilling your significance if you apply 
_ yourself to converting all your experience to highest advantage of 
others. You and all men are here for the sake of other men.” 
| define ‘‘synergy’’ as follows: Synergy is the unique behavior of 
whole systems, unpredicted by behavior of their respective sub- 
systems’ events. 
> 
(Fuller cont‘d.) 
Divine Right’s Trip 
Our Story thus far 
. 
by Gurney Norman 
This original folk-tale will be found proceeding episodically along 
the right-hand pages (lower-right corner) in this type face, making 
the CATALOG what it has longed to be, a work of drama. The 
Perils of D.R. Tune in next page. 
Starts on p. 9. 
Buckminster 
Whole Systems 
