Psychic Discoveries Behind the Iron Curtain 
The Russians are coming, the Russians are coming! Without 
the historical set of disbeliefs that has kept ESP research in 
the country limited to card guessing and tall tales, the 
Russians have been developing a number of laboratories and 
qualified people to run them. 
This book isa relaxed, 
sometimes-flamboyant tour of the Russian work as well as 
samples of Bulgarian, Czech, and other iron curtain researchers. 
The whole book blows my mind. 
The Russians are years 
ahead of us in using and understanding clairvoyance, 
telepathy, auras, and related areas. 
The Bulgarians appear 
to have made and implemented fundamental discoveries in 
learning (not teaching rates, but getting people learning five 
to ten times faster). 
The Czechs are ahead of us in pragmatic 
applications of astrology (birty control, fertility, sex 
determination of chidren). Most of the strange and wondrous 
powers we were all taught don’t exist are being explored, 
trained, extended, and researched by well-known, well- 
qualified, and well-financed government researchers. 
One result of this book is that our parapsychologists are 
trying to get over there to learn how to start catching up. 
Another result is that this publication may force the United 
States government to release its own secret work (which the 
Russians know about but which has never been reported here). 
/s there an ESP gap? Who will have the first telepath on the 
moon? From the looks of this tour through inner space you 
can be sure it won't be one of us. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
James Fadiman] 
Psychic Discoveries Behind the Iron Curtain 
Sheila: Ostrander and Lynn Schroeder 
1970, 443 pp. 
$1.25 postpaid 
See Epilog, page 736 
from: 
“Handbook for Psi 
Bantam Books, Inc. 
Discoveries’* 
666 Fifth Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Dr. S. N. Dobronravov of Sverdlovsk reported that up to 72 percent 
of children had skin sight potentials. 
‘it is most noticeable in 
children from the ages of seven to twelve years.’” Scientists at this 
convention agreed that the “‘supersensational, carnival’’ atmosphere 
whirling around eyeless sight was harming the subjects and the 
investigation. Work would continue quietly with subjects 
anonymous to the public. 
Dr. Novomeisky was quietly trying to get information to help the 
blind. 
He found that blind adults didn’t take to skin sight as readily 
as did blind children. The adults probably didn't believe that hands 
could see. Secondly, their acquired sensitivity of touch, and the 
habit of trying to “‘read”’ textures, blocked feeling of the dermo- 
optic sensations. 
But when Novomeisky put colored paper in 
insulated trays, ten blind adults suddenly got all the eyeless sight 
sensations that seeing students experienced. ‘‘With the insulated 
tray,'’ Novomeisky reported,’‘we didn’t find a single blind person 
who did not have positive tendencies toward skin sight.” 
“Our support is from the highest levels of government,” said 
Lozanov, ‘‘the highest. The government has given us excellent 
conditions for our work. We never have to worry about money here. 
We can go ahead on any project, in any area of paranormal. Vanga 
is the first clairvoyant in the world to be put on the state payroll and 
Our government has created good conditions for researching pre- 
cognition.’’ 
Lozanov said this with considerable pride—_ pride in 
Bulgaria and her remarkable people to whom Lozanov is extra- 
ordinarily dedicated. 
tn actuality this is a French lesson. Against the background of 
Brahms or Beethoven, the voice of the teacher seems sometimes 
businesslike, as if ordering work to be done, sometimes soft and 
calming, then unexpectedly hard, commanding. 
Her voice repeats 
in a special rhythm, on a special scale of intonation, French words, 
idioms, and their translations. 
But the students aren’t really 
listening. They’ve been warned not to pay attention, not to think 
about whether they hear the teacher. ‘Relax. Don‘t think about 
anything.’ Their conscious minds are to be totally occupied with 
the music. 
Journal of Transpersonal Psychology 
This is a journal that is bringing old-fashioned “all-!-want-Is- 
the-facts-ma’m” 
science one step closer toward areas of 
fundamental concern. 
It publishes articles on scientific 
subjects such as ecstasy, transcendent education, and deep 
hypnosis, as well as unusual articles such as Baba Ram Dass’s 
lecture to the staff of the Menninger Clinic and a test to 
‘see if you can tell the difference between a mystic and a 
physicist. If you are willing and able to go beyond Weird 
Tales and Fate Magazine, to alpha feedback and experimental 
yoga this journal will make it easy to walk the distance 
without leaving your scientific or your telepathic friends 
behind. 
[Reviewed by James Fadiman] 
Each of these pictures shows a human fingertip magnified fifty 
times. 
Picture at top shows that of a healthy man, calm and even- 
tempered. Photo at bottom shows the finger of an overtired, 
emotionally tense individual. 
In a state of fatigue, more energy 
seems to leave the body. 
The next day surprised students discover that even though they 
were sure they'd learned nothing, they remember and can easily 
read, write, and speak from 120 to 150 new words absorbed during 
the two-hour session. 
In the same way the toughest part of the 
language course, the grammar rules, painlessly take root in the minds 
of music-lulled students. Within a month students with no prior 
knowledge of a language have accepted two to three thousand 
vocabulary words and have a good grasp of the grammar. Tests a 
year later show they still know all the material learned in this 
incredibly effortless way. 
How does it work? Lozanov based his method, which can help you 
learn five to fifty times faster, on the Yoga technique of relaxation— 
Savasanna. 
Using suggestion and autosuggestion, muscle tension is 
relaxed and the brain relieved of the usual anxieties and stresses. 
In 
this relaxed “free state of consciousness,’ or meditative state, fatigue 
quickly vanishes. Freed from all distractions which hamper its 
functioning, the brain resembles a sponge able to absorb knowledge 
of all kinds. The secret of the technique is that material doesn’t 
reach the memory in the ordinary way, because the student doesn’t 
participate consciously in the process. 
Psychological Exercises 
Orage, who edited “New Age” in the ‘thirties, knew everyone. 
His favorites, like Pound, Gurdjieff and Ouspensky, were 
certainly worth knowing. 
Those were the days when intellec- 
tuals thought they could change the world just by pointing 
out what was right and what was wrong. Hah! Anyway, 
Orage hada secret kick, too, and it was exercising the grey 
matter. For example: 
while reciting “Jack and Jill” write 
down “Mary Had a Little Lamb”. For example: 
while you 
are talking to someone, or reading this, count from 100 to O 
backwards by three’s. 
You'll find that with some practice 
you really can do these things, just like learning to pat your 
mo oa while rubbing your head. And then where are you? 
un. 
[Suggested and reviewed by Stephan Chodorov] 
416 
Paranormal 
Learning 
Read at sight the following unspaced passage in which each second 
word has been spelled backwards: 
Asnoosasehtserm onsifinishedydobonpresumesotstirllitSirregoR 
ise 
nogoutfothehcruhc. Thethginkwalksnwodfromsihseatnithelec 
nahcbetweenadoubleworofsihtenantstahtstandgniwobtomihon 
hcaeside,dnaeverywonandnehtinquireswohsuchnaone’sefiwor 
reh tomornosorrehtafdo,mohwheseodnoteesathcruhc——which 
siunderstoodsaatercesreprimandotthenosrepthatsiabsent. 
Psychological Exercises & Essays 
Na 
A. R. Orage 
PSYCTIO- 
1930. 
“1968; 121 pp. 
LOGICAL 
PST 
Ist 
$1.95 postpaid 
a 
from: 
Samuel Weiser 
734 Broadway 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Journal of Trans sprsona Paychology 
Anthony Sutich, e 
$7.50 /yr (semi-annual) 
from: 
P.O. Box 4437 
Stanford, California 94305 
Statement of PiKooes: The Journal of Transpersonal Psychology — 
is concerned with the publication of theoretical and applied 
research, original contributions, empirica/ papers, articles and 
studies in meta-needs, ultimate values, unitive consciousness, peak 
experience, ecstasy, mystical experience, B values, essence, bliss, 
awe, wonder, self-actualization, ultimate meaning, transcendence of 
the self, spirit, sacralization of everyday life, oneness, cosmic play, 
individual and species-wide synergy, maximal interpersonal encounter, 
transcendental phenomena; maximal sensory awareness, respon- 
siveness and expression; and related concepts, experiences and 
activities. As a statement of purpose, this formulation is to be ~ 
understood as subject to optiona/ individual or group interpretations, — 
either wholly or in part, with regard to the acceptance of its content 
7 
as essentially naturalistic, theistic, supernasaraye ee: or any other 
Hesauatgan classification. 
aN 
. the reason why our sentient, percipient, and thinking ego is 
met nowhere in our world picture can easily be indicated in seven 
words: because it is |1TSELF that world picture. It is identical 
with the whole and therefore cannot be contained in it as part of it. 
all phenomena-and their development are simply manifestations 
of mind, all causes and effects, from great universes to the fine dust — 
only seen in the sunlight, come into apparent existence anly by 
means of the discriminating mind. Even open space is not 
nothingness. 
. .the stuff of the world is mind stuff. 
e 
Mantra gets so far out, that after | did it for two days andtwo 
nights solid in Nepal once, | stopped to go to sleep and of course 
it continued going. But instead of it continuing going just in my 
BS 
voice it continued going. . .what it sounded like was a cross between ~ 
the Mormon Tabernacle Choir and the O Heavenly Day Chorus. 
It’s that huge a thing except it was made up of ali old voices and ~ 
they stretched back’ in time and space in infinite direction. . 
.you 
know, distance. 
All | heard was Om Mani Padme Hum and the 
wind was Om Mani Padme Hum and the air conditioner was Om 
; 
Mani... , the whole thing. | had tuned in on that place where that 
was all | could hear. But it was no longer my voice. 
| went rushing 
to a yogi and | said, ‘What's happening? |’m going crazy.’ He said, — 
“You've tuned in on the Om, that’s that place. You've tuned in on 
that place. There it is: That’s where they're all hanging out.” 
Now it turns out— and this is the one that many of you will find 
hard sledding, but it’s the way | understand it now, having been 
~ 
through this particular trip I’ve been through— that Freudisan 
| 
absolutely unequaled spokesman and master of second-chakra 
preoccupation, that is, of those beings who were primarily involved — 
ay 
in second chakra. So he could say quite honestly, because itis 
= 
true at the second chakra, that religion is sublimated sex. Now it is 
true that in his generalized libido theories and the idea that all the 
body is erogenous. 
. .there are a lot of ways in which he slips over 
the edge; but his system is primarily concerned with the second 
chakra. Adler is primarily concerned with third chakra. Jung is 
primarily concerned with fourth chakra. 
| would point out that 
there are still the fifth, sixth and seventh chakras. And these are 
in terms of other kinds of psychic spaces and ways of organizing — 
the universe and understanding what's happening. So that to the 
— 
extent that you have ‘“‘uncooked seeds’’ of the second chakra and 
you-have a Freudian analyst, he’s going to help you cook those 
— 
seeds. He’s not going to do much about where you're stuck in the — 
third chakra, particularly. And he hasn't much to say about the 
fourth chakra, which is what Jung pointed out about Freee 
Courses on Altered States of Consciousness are being offered at 
Sonoma State College, the University of California at Davis, and 
Stanford University. Within five to ten years, it will no doubt be — 
offered as generally as present courses on Motivation | or Abnormal. 
personality. 
Let some prepared incident be staged and played before a grour, of 
~ 
students, who shall afterwards report it correctly. 
Sa 
E.g., the lights are suddenly turned off. Student A. blows a police - * 
whistle. He scuffles with Student B. and some noisy conversation 
takes place between them, Student B. escapes, making some remark 
zi 
as he bangs the door behind him. The lights are now turned up; and 
the rest of the students are called upon to report fully, accurately 
and in proper sequence the events of the episode. 
<= 
Arrange the following sentences in order of their intellectual content; 
and give reasons for your arrangement. 
’ 
Where law ends, tyranny begins. 
Se 
The road to Hell is paved with good intentions. 
P 
A desire in psychology has the same status as a force in physics. 
Our antagonist is our helper. 
5 
The world is a comedy to those who think, a Hevea to those who. feel 
Man’‘s character is his destiny. 
; 
A stitch in time saves nine. 
‘ 
