Indian Books 
who loned it through the streets of Idaho seeking 
visionary indian angels who were visionary 
indian angels... 
j 
—Ginsberg, Howl 
The booklist that follows comes from two intense informal 
years (and five-slack ones) hanging around Indians, 
reservations, anthropologists, and libraries. Long may 
Indians, reservations, anthropologists and libraries thrive! 
They gave me more reliable information, and human 
warmth, than dope and college put together. 
/’m sure that the books all by themselves cannot deliver 
The Native American Experience. For that you need 
time immersed in the land and neighborly acquaintance 
at least with some in fact Indians. Still, an amazing 
amount is in the books. 
_SB 
Book of the Hopi 
!f you’re susceptible to tarot or astrology, you’l! probably 
revel in this book. Its business is the esoteric lore and 
historical drama which lives and protects the Hopi Indians 
in Arizona. They were possibly the farthest out of the 
American tribes (in present times they are not as together as 
Zuni, or Taos, but they are larger and so is what they 
attempted). This is the mysticism-not of change but of 
stability, of the year cycle, of one more winter of food 
obtained by the hard knowledge from uncounted prior 
generations of winters and, they say, travels from world to 
world and place to place to arrive finally at the center, 
these bleak mesas, to here sustain forever responsibility for 
the well-being of the world. Frank Waters was perhaps too 
eager to write a Bible, but | can’t blame him. It’s that kind 
of knowledge. 
—SB 
Book of the Hopi 
Frank Waters, 
Oswald White Bear Fredericks 
1963; 423 pp. 
$3.25 postpaid 
fram: 
Ballantine Books, Inc. 
101 Fifth Avenue 
New York, New York 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
So the people emerged to the Second World. Its name was Tokpa 
Dark Midnight 
. Its direction was south, its color blue, its mineral 
qochasiva, silver. Chiefs upon it were salavi, the spruce; kwahu, 
the eagle; and kolichiyaw, the skunk. 
It was a big land, and the people multiplied rapidly, spreading over 
it to all directions, even to the other side of the world. This did 
not matter, for they were so close together in spirit they could 
see and talk to each other from the center on top of the head. 
Because this door was still open, they felt close to Sotuknang 
and they sang joyful praises to the Creator, Taiowa. 
They did not have the privilege of living with the animals, though, 
for the animals were wild and kept apart. Being separated from 
the animals, the people tended to their own affairs. They built 
homes, then villages and trails between them. They made things 
with their hands and stored food like the Ant People. Then they 
began to trade and barter with one another. 
This was when the trouble started. Everything they needed was on 
this Second World, but they began to want more. 
Parrot Clan maiden 
sitting on a plaque of 
seeds during 
Soyal 
Ritual. 
Indians 
Learning 
male stick 
cornhusk 
containing 
meal, pollen 
and honey 
Figure 55. Male-and-female p4ho 
Every paho, simple or complex, is made with prayerful concentration 
and ritually smoked over. Then it is carried 
to ashrine, where it is 
stuck in a.cleft of rocks or hung on a bush and left until the invisible 
vibrations of the prayer it embodies are slowly absorbed by the forces 
of life to which it is dedicated. 
The Lost Universe 
The book. has anthropological rigor along with its very 
unusual completeness. Here is the whole life of the Pawnee, 
told in a way that you could go now and live it. Here are 
old solutions to problems we consider. unsolvable and new. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Pam Smith] 
The Lost Universe 
Gene Weltfish 
1965; 617 pp. 
$1 -65 postpaid 
from: 
Ballantine Books, Inc. 
101 Fifth Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The Pawnee child was born into a community from the beginning, 
and he never acquired the notion that he was closed in “within 
four walls.’” He was literally trained to feel that the world around 
him was his home— kafuraru, the universe, meaning literally the 
inside land, and that his house was.a small model of it. The 
infinite cosmos was his constant source of strength and his 
ultimate progenitor, and there was no reason why he should 
hesitate to set out alone and explore the wide world, even though 
years should pass before he returned. Not only was he not 
confined within four walls but he was not closed in with a permanent 
group of people. The special concern of his mother did not mean 
that he was so closely embedded with her emotionally that he was 
not able to move about. 
End with permonent 
fastening of 
c 
sinew string 
End of bow with notches 
to tighten the string 
a 
Buckskin binding 
Sinew binding 
Sinew binding 
2 
Ficure 51-1. (1) A simple bow of ashwood. (2) A sinew-backed 
bow, tskatstaxkasa. Two pieces of sinew, crossed at the middle 
could be permanently pasted on when wet. 
As they continued on the move, pressures might build up between 
individuals because of the closeness of the living conditions in 
camp and the strain 
of constant migration. This was particularly 
true between father-in-law and son-in-law. Theoretically, it was 
the first duty of the son-in-law to serve his wife’s family, but 
when his father-in-law was quite old, the son-in-law often felt put 
upon by the arrangement. Sometimes in the camp one could hear 
people calling out, ‘Fight, fight!” and father-in-law and son-in-law 
would be grappling with each other in a tent. People all came 
running and a roughneck in the crowd would call out, “‘Who’s 
underneath?"’ Someone who was close to the tent would say, 
“Son-in-law.’’ 
In general the crowd would approve and say, 
“That's good,” the sentiment being with the underdog, the old 
father-in-law. Such a quarrel would be ended when a brave or 
other person of high social rank put.a hand on each of the com- 
batants and said, “| want you to stop.’ Out of respect for his 
rank and eminence, they would separate at once and go in 
different directions. Should they not respond it would be a major 
insult and he would say a second time, ‘‘Didn’t you hear me?” 
This would certainly end the fight. Any person known to be 
sensitive and to dislike violence could perform this same good office. 
Violence of this kind within the village or band was considered a 
serious social malfunction and people made every attempt to avoid 
it or put a stop to it. 
_ This book is the power vision of one Oglala Sioux, and the 
- — 
extraordinary man it made. Black Elk’s account, besides 
“something about that vision. Of course he did not know all of it; 
Black Elk Speaks 
The Pueblo tribes don’t go in for visionary solitary mystical 
whizbangs. (Of all of them only Taos is into peyote very 
much.) The plains tribes are. something else however. Their 
lives turned on their visions—solo manhood transports, 
dreams, name visions, sun dance ordeals, battle ecstasy, 
doctoring sessions... and later, ghost dance and peyote. 
affording unusual insight into Sioux life and historical 
figures such as Crazy Horse, demonstrates the manner of 
recognizing a serious vision and being responsible for it, 
and the burden, joy and power of doing that. 
SB 
4 
eae
cata 
2 
tree
om
AL 
sei
a
q 
a 
‘|
| 
Black Elk Speaks 
Jobn G. Neihardt 
1932, 69; 280pp. 
$1.75 postpaid 
from 
ora 
Pocket Books 
c/o Simon & Schuster 
One West 39th Street 
New York. N.Y. 10018 
; 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Crazy Horse's father was my father’s cousin, and there were no 
chiefs in our family before Crazy Horse; but there were holy 
men; and he became a chief because of the power he gotina 
: 
vision when he was a boy. When! was aman, my father told me 
but he said that Crazy Horse dreamed and went into the world 
where there is nothing but the spirits of all things. That is the 
real world that is behind this one, and everything we see here is 
something like a shadow from that world. He was on his horse in 
that world, and the horse and himself on it and the trees and the 
grass and the stones and everything were made of spirit, and 
nothing was hard, and everything seemed to float. His horse was 
standing there, and yet it danced around like a horse made only of 
shadow, and that is how he got his name, which does not mean that 
his horse was crazy or wild, but that in his vision it danced around 
in that queer way. 
: 
It was this vision that gave him his great power, for when he went in 
to a fight, he had only to think of that world to be in it again, so that 
that he could go through anything and not be hurt. Until he was 
| 
murdered by the Wasichus at the Soldiers’ Town on White River he 
4 
was wounded only twice, once by accident and both times by some 
—— 
one of his own people when he was not expecting trouble and was 
not thinking; never by an enemy. He was fifteen years old when he 
was wounded by accident; and the other time was when he was a 
young man and another man was jealous of him because the man’s ~ 
wife liked Crazy Horse. 
They used to say too that he carried a sacred stone with him, like 
one he had seen in some vision, and that when he was in danger, 
the stone always got very heavy and protected him somehow. That, 
they used to say, was the reason no horse he ever rode lasted very 
long. | do not know about this; maybe people only thought it; but 
it is a fact that he never kept one horse long. They wore out. | 
think it was only the power of his great vision that made him great. 
~ Oe 
ae
ORES
G
str 
+e 
...Then | was standing on the highest mountain of them all, and 
round about beneath me was the whole hoop of the world. 
And 
° 
while | stood there | saw more than | can tell and | understood more 
— 
than | saw; for | was seeing in a sacred manner the’shapes of all 
things in the spirit, and the shape of all shapes as they must live 
together like one being. And | saw that the sacred hoop of my 
~ 
people was one of many hoops that made one circle, wide as day- 
~ 
light and as starlight, and in the center grew one mighty flowering 
tree to shelter all the children of one mother and one father. And 
| saw that it was holy. 
Black Elk said the mountain he stood upon in his vision was Harney, % 
Peak, in the Black Hills. “But anywhere is the center of the world,” 
he added. 
- 
e 
a
A ay 
ae 
When a vision comes from the thunder beings of the west, it comes 
with terror like a thunder storm; but when the storm of vision has 
passed, the world is greener and happier; for wherever the truth of 
vision comes upon the world, it is like a rain. The world, you see, is 
happier after the terror of the storm. 
3 
e 
; 
S > | 
You have noticed that the truth comes into this world with two 
faces. One is sad 
with suffering, and the other laughs; but it is the 
same face, laughing or weeping. When people are already in despair, 
maybe the laughing face-is better for them; and when they feel 
too good and are too sure of being safe, maybe the weeping face 
is better for them to see. 
; 
3 
® 
| think | have told you, but if | have not, you must have understood, 
that a man who has.a 
vision is not able to use the power of it until 
after he has performed the vision on earth for the people to see. 
