. A Good Cook. . .Ten Talents 
Allegan, Michigan 49010 
Vegetarian Cookbooks 
For the Giant Computer if It wants It. Here are the best vegetarian 
cookbooks I know of right now, being good tasting, wholesome, 
full of life, and good loving food. Not all of them are entirely 
vegetarian, but I’ve found them all good books when-it’s time to eat. 
Frank and Rosalie Hurd, 354 Pp.» ring binders, colour pictures, 
$7.95 from: 
Allegan Health Clinic 
120 Cutler Street 
Big natural food cookery and uncookery Bibie: 
“. .What you need 
is less temporal food and much more spiritual food, more of the 
bread of life. The simpler your diet, the better it will be for you.” 
Tried and True Vegetarian Recipes 
Shilla Judd, 66 pp., $1.95 from: 
Shilla Judd 
; 
P.O. Box 75 
Potter Valley, CA 95469 
Mouth-waterers, some of them incredibly delictous. 
Gar Shu Vegetarian Cookbook 
Sanctilean, 94 pp., ring binders, $3.50 fam 
Upland Trails Press 
c/o Della Haney 
P.O. Box 1686 
Coolidge, Arizona 85228 
make checks payable to “Della Hovey” 
Gar = sun shine 
Shu = vegetal 
Cosmic Cookery 
Katherine Ash, 44 pr- hand drawings, out of print 
Messiah’s World Crusade 
234 Hawthorn Avenue 
Larkspur, Calif. 94939 
Hygienic Cookbook and Vegetarian Recipe Book 
276.mimeographed 8s 
x 11 pages, $5.50 from: 
Health Research 
70 Lafayette Street 
Mokelumne Hill, Calif. 95245 
Eight old-timey turn of the century books in one. . .totally 
wholesome. . .one of the best. 
Cooking with Grains and Vegetables 
29 pp., 8 x 11, out of print 
Cooking Good Food 
35 pp., 8x Il, out of print 
Erewhon Trading Co. 
8001 Beverly Blud. 
Los Angeles, Calif. 90048 
or 
TAO 
303-B Newbury Street 
Boston, Mass. 02115 
Yogi Cookbook 
Yogi Vithaldas, Susan Roberts, 126 pp., $.95 from: 
Pyramid Publications 
Mail Order Dept., 9 Garden St. 
Moonachie, N.J. 07074 
“Discover the amazing health secrets of the ancients. .” Indian 
curries, sweetmeats, and spicey stuff. 
} 
: 
Cookless Book 
Mrs. Richter, 88 pp., $2.00 from: 
Tobe’s 
P,O. Box 
. 
St. Catherines, Ont. 
Canada 
Raw food recipes and fruit jumbles, salads. . .cookless. 
Tassajara Bread Book : 
145 pp., 33.50 from: | 
Shambhala Publications, Inc. 
2045 Francisco Street 
Berkeley, Calif. 94709 
Make it whole, and chew it up, bread that tastes, and feels good to 
make. 
; 
Vegan Kitchen 
43 pp., rings, $2.00, from: 
American Vegan Society 
Box H 
Malaga, New Jersey 08328 
Completely non-animal, no meat, fish, tae dairy products, honey, 
only stuff that grows on the earth. 
Zen Cookery 
74 pp., rings, $1.95 from: 
Tao 
: 
303-B Newbury st. 
Boston, Mass. 02115 
_Practical macrobiotics, traditional eating way Japan country rivers 
brown rice. 
Food Combining Made Easy 
Herbert Shelton, 71 pp., $1.00 from: 
Jaffe Brothers. 
P.O. Box 636 
Valley Center, Calif. 92082 
Pear what mixes with what, so it can get digested ites too much® 
hassle. 
Scientific Nutrition and Cookbook 
(for those interested in the vegetarian way of life), Donna Grey 
Kelley, about 100 pp, (mimeo, 8 x 11), $3.50 fore 
Denna Kelley 
1305 Palm Ave. 
Beaumont, California 
Tells what’s what in nutrition, why, and how, Yummy recipes, and 
sage advice for children of Light. 
Vegetarian Cookery 
Dr. Pietro Rotondi, $5.00 from: 
' Dr. Pietro Rotondi 
1916 Vista del Mar Ave. 
Hollywood, Calif. 90028 
The Soybean Cookbook 
This cookbook is listed because too many vegetarians | 
know are looking too unhealthy. |t’s particularly 
poignant when said vegetarian is pregnant and brain- 
starving the child. Soybeans are extra rich in protein; 
they’re cheap, and not hard to grow. Now would some 
professional nutritionist let us know if they flat-out 
replace animal protein? Steve Durkee got laid up fora 
month last summer because of too /ittle protein in 
the diet at Lama. They're on vegetable protein now. Is 
it working, Steve? 
SB 
[Suggested by Barbara Kirshenblatt-Gimblett] 
Note: Lama now has goats and a cow. 
The Soybean Cookbook 
Darene Van Gundy Jones 
1963; 240pp. 
$1 45 postpaid 
from: 
Arc Books 
219 Park Avenue South 
New York, New York 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
HOW TO MAKE SOY CHEESE 
Soy Cheese From Milk 
- 
Soy cheese is made by allowing soy milk to sour and curdle. 
When it is made commercially, lactic, tartaric, or citric acid 
is used; but acid is. not necessary when a small amount of 
cheese is made at home. Set the soy milk in a warm place to 
sour and thicken. When thick, cut it into chunks with a knife, 
place these in a pan, cover them with water, and bring to the 
boiling point. Strain through cheesecloth, wringing the curds 
as dry as possible. Season with salt and a small amount of soy 
sauce. The fresh cheese can be used like cottage cheese and can 
be stored in the refrigerator for several days. 
Soybeans are an excellent means of making a low-cost diet 
nutritionally safe. They are one of our cheapest sources of 
nutritious protein. A few cents’ worth of dry beans will serve 
four to six persons and give them the food value of greater 
- quantities of meat or fish. Soy flour or grits, at the cost of a 
few cents, can step up the protein content of adish to equal the 
more expensive animal protein foods. 
Soy 
...Finally a word about soybeans. As a pediatrician I’m able to pass on 
the word to you from the professional nutritionist friends of mine 
about the relative value of soybean compared to animal protein. 
Flat-out on a weight for weight basis soybeans have more protein and. 
more essential amino acids than sirloin beef. Period. ‘“‘Normal and 
Therapeutic Nutrition,” by Corinne H, Robinson, 13th. Ed., pp. 822 and 
825, NY 1967. The problem is more complicated, however, because 
the above superiority of bean over beef is with whole beans, and does 
not take into account such goodies as how the foods are prepared 
(boiling, for example, destroys some amino acids) or if the beans are in 
the form of a milk or flour. Soybeans despite their superiority over 
beef in the Proudfit-Robinson data are rather poor in methionine, 
for example, and in no way should they be considered a kind of 
miracle food capable of meeting all human nutritional needs. 
The take-home lesson of the day is that whole populations have done 
quite well on diets that were largely vegetable, but that the proper 
nutrition was accomplished by the mixture of supplementary 
vegetable proteins, such as barley, wheat, and soy proteins. Corn, for 
example, is terrible in lysine. Soybean, on the other hand, is fairly 
good in lysine, and experiments have shown that corn and beans are 
better utilized when they are taken together. It is not necessary to 
ingest large amounts of first class, All American Boy proteins like 
meat, milk, eggs, and fish, providing you take in mixed amounts of 
supplementary vegetables, as the majority of the people in the world 
do, such as cereals, millets, legumes, nuts, oilseeds, common vegetables, 
and leaf and grass protein. I’m sorry to hear one of your friends in 
Lama fell ill while on a vegetarian diet. But in no way should this be 
construed as an indictment against the vegetable. There is emerging 
increasing evidence that the only feasible solution to global malnutrition 
in the seventies is the development of cheap, high protein plant 
mixtures, with considerably less rape of the ecosystem. Hope I 
helped. 
Sincerely, 
Henry Abraham, M.D. 
University of Arizona 
Tuscon, Arizona 
Soy and Sprouts 
Good simple into: Recipes for the Use of Soybeans and 
Sprouting for one self-addressed stamped envelope from: 
Sterling H. Nelson & Sons, Inc. 
525 South 4th West 
Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 
Totally recommended, every recipe tastes like it tastes. . .they all 
work, 
Get some feedback from the mothers of the nation, the good cooks, 
put this data through the computers, and if it fits, send your dollars 
or commentaries to: 
Banyen Bookshop 
2739 West 4th Avenue 
Vancouver 8, B.C. 
Canada 
In cases of supreme emergency, the bookshop above named stock 
the books above named. Boieo! 
“Meat” 
Have you ever published a recipe for home-made wheat gluten? This 
is a basic meat substitute and very easy to make, forming the basis of 
many of the commercially produced, canned substitutes, notably 
Worthington and Loma Linda vegeburger, vegetable skallops, dinner 
cuts, vege-cuts, etc. 
Mix 2% to 3 cups of water with 8 cups of flour (gluten flour is easi- 
est, but ordinary white flour will do), enough to make a firm ball. 
Soak under water overnight. The next day, keep kneading the dough 
under water and pouring off the starchy liquid, replacing with fresh 
cold (tap) water until water is clear during kneading (no more starch — 
this is where gluten flour was nice). You now have Wheat Gluten (the 
protein of flour) in the form of a large, rubbery ball. 
For eating, slice into thin steak size, roll in batter, and grill or fry; 
chop into fine pieces and use in stews; or put through meat grinder 
and you have vege-burger, which can be used in many of the same 
ways as hamburger (ground beef). 
As the gluten is tasteless, much like a hunk of sponge, disguises are 
necessary. Yeast extract, soya sauce, vegetable salts, wines, and, in 
general, anything you can think of, improve flavor considerably. 
(Perhaps you can: find someone to tell you about preparing tofu as 
well.) 
Ann Liston 
See Epiiog, page 591 
Burnaby, B.C. 
“The Vegetarian Epicure’ 
Canada 
When D.R. left the phone booth he intended to go directly 
back downtown to the bus station. But then when he passed 
Clark Street he figured since he was that close he’d pop-in on 
Marcella and see what those people were up to. When it turned 
out that what they were up to was supper D.R. didn’t see any way 
to leave.gracefully without eating something, especially since 
Marcella had fixed a place for him and had served smoked ham and 
chow-chow in celebration of his arrival. The family was already 
seated.at the table in the kitchen when D.R. walked in, except 
for Marcella who was stirring something on the stove. Doyle was 
at the head. of the table browsing through the Enquirer when he 
looked up and saw D.R. in the doorway. _ 
*'Dadburn your hide, where you been?” Doyle shouted. He 
scooted his chair back and got to his feet so hard the dishes on 
the table rattled. “I come home early on account of you and there 
you was out and gone already. How you doing, Buddy, | declare 
it’s mighty good to see you.” 
Doyle came across the floor like a coal truck and gathered 
D.R. into his arms. Then he stepped back and took D.R.’s hand 
in both his own and pumped vigorously up and down. 
“| said to Mars | said dadburn the like of him anyhow, me 
taking off work early to come and see him, and then him not even 
be here. Where you been, boy, you ‘bout to miss your supper.” 
“Don't listen to him, David,” said Marcella. "'He’s tickled 
to have you as an excuse to quit early.” 
“Daddy home early,” said Debbie. 
Herschel got out of his chair and crossed the room to where 
the two men were standing. As they talked he tried to worm in 
among their legs and stand between them. 
“Here now, you little sneak, you sit down, we're getting ready 
to eat.” 
"| want to sit next to Uncle David,”’ said Herschel. 
“You sit where you always sit,” said Doyle. ‘David's place 
is all laid out.’’ 
Herschel made a face of disappointment, but he obeyed his 
father. He dropped to his hands and knees, crawled under the 
table and came up on the other side. 
“Feistiest thing ever was,” Doyle said proudly. 
into a regular devil” 
“You neen to brag about it,” said Marcella. 
"| ain't a bragging,” said Doyle. ‘’I’m just stating the plain 
facts. Ain’t that right David?” 
“That's right,” said D.R. “Doyle’s just telling the facts.” 
“What | want to know is how that bus of yours is running,” 
said Doyle. “I told Mars when you called the other day, | said 
| bet that boy’s got car trouble. She said you'd of said so if you 
had and you know what I said? | said shoot, the thing about David 
with his cars is he don’t know when he’s got trouble and when he 
ain't.” 
Doyle broke out laughing at his joke, and D-R. laughed too. 
Doyle was a mechanic, and partners with his cousin Vernis in a 
filling station and garage. The year before, when D.R. had 
stopped off at Marcella’s and Doyle’s, Urge had. had a burned valve 
and D.R. didn’t know it. That anybody could drive a car with a 
turned valve and not know it amazed Doyle, and fascinated him 
at the same time. Doyle had given Urge a valve job for free, 
and Vernis had banged a few dents out of the body. 
If they’d 
known at the time that D.R.’s intention was to use his bus to 
help Eddie transport about a zillion bricks of marijuana to Chicago 
they‘d have been less generous with their work. But the general 
freaky appearance of the bus, and indeed, of Divine Right himself, 
had disturbed them not at all. Doyle understood that his brother- 
in-law was some sort of mild outlaw. But he assumed, as Marcella 
assumed, that whatever it was D.R. was into was only a phase, as 
Doyle’s own youthful outlawry had been a phase, and it never 
occurred to any of them to withdraw their affection just because 
the kid was in a phase. Till Doyle was drafted into the army, back 
in the 1950's, he had terrorized. the roads of Eastern Kentucky as 
a coal truck driver. In the army he’d been court-martialed twice 
for going Awol, and general insubordination. He spent eight 
weeks in the stockade at Fort Hood, Texas and described them 
later as the best eight weeks of his entire army career. Doyle wasa 
settled family man now, a father, a tax-payer and, as of the previous 
month, a member of the Church of God. But there was a natural 
empathy between him and Divine Right, and in spite of the 
widening differences in their lives they remained among each 
other’s favorite people. 
Vegetables 
Community 
“He's turned 
