Tie and Dye. 
. This is the only book on tie-and-dye that is available in this 
country. A few other books briefly discuss tie-and-dye, one 
of the simple means of fabric design, suitable for school- 
children, blah, blah, blah. But Ann Maile treats tie-and-dye 
like an ancient and complex folk art. Not that she is pedantic. 
She very clearly explains how to accomplish all the traditional 
and intricate effects possible with limited materials and free- 
flowing organic imagination. 
Tie and dye is such a simple 
art form that many people have already discovered it, and 
are doing it without any books to tell them how. So why 
buy a book? 
You can buy bolts of machine printed tie and dyed drip 
proof, smear dry never iron cotton,... pretty far out. 
But the question isn’t to be or not to be far out. 
The 
question is whether you are into the craft of tie and dye 
in order to create beautiful objects or just weird artifacts. 
/f you want to really get into it, the book seems really useful 
and inspiring. 
1f not——well,... 
[Reviewed by Terry Gunesch. 
Suggested by Madge Gleeson.] 
Tie and Dye 
Anne Maile 
1963, 
... 1969; 182 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
" 
from: 
Ballantine Books, tnc. 
101 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Helio Batik Dyes 
Batik dyes from Canada. (Also see p. 167) 
Helio Dyes 
2140 West 4th Ave. 
Vancouver 9, B.C. 
Canada 
Aiko’s Art Materials Import 
a source of batik dyes and tools, 
japanese artists supplies, 
books on oriental culture, 
collage papers, 
gardening literature. 
; 
[Suggested by Bob Pullman] 
Catalog 
$.25 
from: 
Aiko’s Art Materials Import 
714 North Wabach Avenue 
Chicago, Illinois 60611 
MIYAKO DIRECT DYE ...A 
unit of 6 jars or more: $3.30 (at 
$.55 ajar) 
A chemical dye of acid substance in many brilliant colors mostly 
made up of sulfonic acid and readily soluble. In fine powder form, 
easily soluble and capable of penetration to many types of fabrics. 
Resopnds better in high temperature, therefore it is primarily used 
for boiling although it is also used successfully for cold-dyeing 
such as in the case of batik—then, the process should be completed 
by steaming. Comes in twenty one colors individually packed in 
small jars for convenient use. 2/3 ox. in ajar, enough to dye 
3 yards of fabric in dark color. 
Burnt Sienna, Pink, Yellow, Burnt Umber, Maroon, Orange, Olive, 
Red Violet, Sepia; Blue, Light Blue, Red, Crimson, Violet 
Ultramarine, Indigo, Green, Prussian Blue, Deep Madder, Black, Grey. 
oy 
JAPANESE SHEARS 
Made of high carbon steel 
: 
Just grip them in palm of your hand 
a 
Left or right as you please and press points together 
Between thumb and bent index finger 
No finger holes to get caught 
JS... .4%4" long 
eI 
Al 
<i 
i 
tah 
SEWING TECHNIQUE OR TRITIK 
Textured squares 
Outlining Shapes in Oversewing 
Variation in the thickness and tone of the lines should be exploited 
Oversewing or whipping stitch can be used very successfully to out- 
in working out designs. 
line any shape drawn on the sample. Whether further stitching or 
binding is added within the shape is a matter of choice. This way of 
outlining does not bunch the cloth up to quite the same extent as 
a running stitch outline. The scale of the actual stitching may be 
quite small, about 1/8 in. across, using single‘or double Sylko, or 
up to 1/2 in. wide, with double thread. The width of the stitches, 
that is the amount of cloth picked up on the needle, each time it 
is inserted into the cloth, decides the thickness of the outline, and 
their density determines the tone. 
For instance, a clear-cut resist 
outline will need more stitches per inch than a medium toned 
contour. 
It is almost impossible to get fine delicate designs on coarse fabric, 
but, on the other hand, with fine cloth any degree of fineness or 
coarseness in a pattern is possible. 
Method 
Draw or trace the design on cloth. 
Decide which are to be made 
thick dominant lines and which not so outstanding. With the 
appropriate cotton or thread, single or double, knotted at’one end, 
begin to sew a little to one side of the line. Take each stitch over 
and under it at any angle between 30 deg. and 60 deg. 
See Epilog, pages 558-560 
D7 
BATIK, THE ART AND CRAFT 
: 
$5.80 
Tla Keller. 
Japan. 
The author takes the reader through all aspects of making a ba- 
tik, 
from a simple dipping, 
or tie-dying, 
to sectional dyeing, 
and the more intricate 
5 or 
6 color patterns. 
Basic materials, 
fabric mixtures, wax temperatures, 
etc. 
are 
discussed fully. 
Here 
is a book of batik literally giving you the "tricks of the 
trade." 
15 Full Color Plates. 
72 black and white -illustrations. 
1966. 
D9 
BATIK ART AND CRAFT 
$3.95 
Nik Krevttsky. 
Profusely illustrated with examples of a wide variety of batik and 
related processes. 
Step-by-step photographs show the reader how various results are 
achieved. 
Work by students. and well-known artists 
is included, 
most of it created 
with a minimum of tools and equipment. 
Besides true batik, 
the book includes mater- 
ial on direct painting on fabric,crayon-resist drawing and wax-resist egg decorating. 
“I'm fucking you up?” said Estelle. 
- 
"Yes, | feel entirely fucked up. | feel like I'm going out of 
my goddamn mind if you want to know the truth. And you're 
giving me all this shit over the telephone.” 
“I'm giving you shit?” asked Estelle. 
"Yes!" D.R. yelled. “Yes! You are.” 
“Well listen, D.R. Do you mind if | ask you a question?” 
“Ask me anything you want to,” said D.R. 
Estelle said, Do you think you’re giving me shit too, by any 
chance?” 
“If | am.I don’t mean to,” said D.R. 
“You mean you don’t know if you are or not,” said Estelle. 
“| mean | don’t mean to, if | am. But you mean to. You're 
really fucking me up.” 
Estelle said, “What if | told you you were fucking me up just 
asbad?" 
“Well, I'd probably talk to you about it,” said D.R. “At least 
I’m trying to talk to you.” 
~ 
“That's very good of you,” said Estelle. “That’s very decent. 
H 
| appreciate it.”’ 
"Jesus, Estelle, you‘re really coming on to me weird, did you 
know that?” 
Batik for Beginners 
Batik-dyed cloth looks like a stained glass window, when it 
works, and like the dog was sick, when it doesn’t. 
This is a 
reasonable beginning text. For even simpler information, 
Stephen Blumrich at 1200 Meadowview Road, Junction City, 
“| think the whole conversation’s weird,” said Estelle. 
D.R. waited before he spoke again. He cleared his throat, 
then cleared it again. “Well see if this makes it seem any weirder 
to you.” 
“What?” asked Estelle. 
"| said see if this makes it seem any weirder to you.” 
“See what?” 
"| haven't said it yet. I’m getting ready to say something.” 
OR 97448, has a $1.50 pamphlet, 
plus 2 first class stamps, 
Resist Dye Technique. 
—SB 
Batik for Beginners 
Fes 
"Oh," said Estelle. ‘Excuse me.” 
Norma Jameson 
; 
D.R. cleared his throat. "I’m thinking the thing to do is for 
1970; 104 pp. 
me to go on out to my sister’s house by myself. Before | take you.” 
“What's so weird about that?” asked Estelle. 
“Doesn't that seem sort of weird to you?” 
“Not really. You want to go check it out, is that right?” 
"Yeah. Just check it out. Kind of ease into it with them.” 
"That seems cool to me,” said Estelle. “Why did you think 
that was so weird?” 
- 
“| don’t know. Now that I've said it, it doesn’t seem so weird 
any more.” 
“Is that all you were going to tell me?” asked Estelle. “Is 
that why you got me on the phone?” 
"That's it,” said D.R. 
“Can | come out of the phone booth now?” 
“You're free to go anywhere you like,” said D.R. 
“Thank you,” said Estelle. She hung up then and came out 
of her booth. But D.R. stayed in his to call his sister Marcella 
and tell her he was coming out to see her after while. 
» 175 
OUT OF PRINT 
Watson-Guptil Publications, Inc. 
165 W. 46th St., 
New York, N.Y. 10036 
Another difference between working on paper and working on 
material is that cloth is pliable and therefore the wax is liable to bend 
and crack as it is put into the dye. You will have noticed this. 
It isa 
characteristic of batik, and one of the recognized techniques, that 
you use this quality of cracking to add richness and pattern to your 
design. The cracks may be ordered, to a definite pattern or area, 
or they may be random cracks used to give a cracked texture over the 
whole or part of the surface. 
To ‘crack’ the design, the whole surface of the cloth is waxed and 
left to go cold. In frosty weather a few minutes out in the cold air 
is sufficient to make the wax brittle. 
If the wax is brittle, the cracks 
will be clean and fine. 
If it is not cold enough outside, put the 
waxed cloth into cold water for a few minutes. 
