The Grub Bag 
! wouldn’t be too surprised if somebody has already reviewed this 
book. 
| got it about four hours ago at a bookshop that had just 
gotten it in. Until now | didn’t believe there was such a thing asa 
book that couldn’t be put down. 
(With all due respect, | didn’t 
even read the Catalog in one sitting). Now that your appetite is 
thoroughly whetted, the book is called The Grub Bag, by Ita Jones. 
She’s written a series of food columns for the Liberation News 
Service, but as far as | know, this is her first book. 
This isn’t the first time that a cookbook has been written with 
philosophy 
and politics lacing the recipes, but it is the first one 
I’ve seen that doesn’t look as though the recipes are the author’s 
but the wit and wisdom are somebody else’s. 
Ita Jones seems to have a slightly different attitude towards food 
than most cookbook authors. She reminds me of.a physics prof 
/ used to have who wanted his students to consider the full range 
of possibilities of a physical concept instead of cranking through 
problems to which the concept obviously applied. 
(For instance, 
did you know that a good way to figure out if you're in a space 
station or not is to jump off a chair? Man is at least as sensitive 
to the angular rotation of a space station as he is to variations in 
gravity——your head would feel as if it had been kicked by a 
mule). Anyway, Ita Jones has that same kind of open-mindedness. 
/f you were writing-a book about cooking, would you think to 
include a chapter on cannibalism? Even if you had read 
Stranger in a Strange Land? 
Some of what / thought were the more memorable things she 
said appear below. As an exercise, in reading the book yourself, 
you may want to look for something that occurred to me——her 
writing reminds me just the least little bit of Thoreau’s writing 
in Walden. (reincarnation?) 
For most Americans, eating has become truly one-dimensional, 
instead of the amazing art of combining the fruit and flesh of 
the earth into experiences worth remembering. 
Eat a meal and know that it was eaten a thousand years ago, and 
tasted close to what it tastes like now to you. Know that what 
was used in this dish was used not by choice but because it lived 
or grew in the area (even in life the ingredients were inter-related), 
that those who lived in the desert ate that which arose from it and 
returned to it, and that those who lived by the water ate that which 
was part of it, and that we have lost this link (among others) between 
Ourselves and our surroundings because in Colorado we eat fish, 
and near the harbors, lamb. 
Pineapple tops can become beautiful strange plants. Slice off the 
crown and place it, cut side down, in a saucer of water. After it 
has begun to grow again, plant it in sandy compost and keep in the 
sun. 
The seeds of grapefruit, oranges, lemons, and tangerines are usually 
tossed away, but even these grow into shiny plants which are happy 
indoors. Wash the seeds and plant them, three or four to a pot, in 
sandy soil. Keep in a warm, dark corner until they have sprouted. 
Then move them to a window sill. 
If you put them outside in the 
summer, the woody parts will develop, giving you small graceful 
trees. 
Another thing Id like to mention is that this book is.definitely 
for those of us who need step-by-step instructions just to boil 
water. Absolutely nothing. is missing from her directions. 
! suppose it’s also worth mentioning that none of the recipes 
require things that are really hard to get or expensive. 
There isn’t 
any 
of this jazz about “procure the hind toes from twenty willow 
ptarmigans. ..” 
| think that even peaple who have been cooking for fifty years 
could find some things to interest them. For instance, there are 
recipes for home-made yogurt and home-made curry powder, 
which aren’t all that difficult to make but just don’t appear in 
the average cookbook. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Lou Bjostad] 
The Grub Bag 
Ita Jones 
March 1971; 258 pages 
OUT OF PRINT 
from: 
Random House 
Westminster, Md. 21157 
_ 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Zen Macrobiotic Cooking 
A good place to start with Macrobiotics (the philosophy 
of eating as a means to vitality and rejuvenation). 
This book is more recent, pleasantly readable, liberal and 
digestible than the writings of the system’s founder-master 
Georges Ohsawa. However, once you read this, you may 
get into the others. Also a monthly publication. 
[Reviewed by Lloyd Kahn] 
In Japan it is Known as yin and yang. Here, in America, it goes by 
the rather chemical terms 
of acidity and alkalinity. For instance, you 
eat something acid and have heartburn; common knowledge tells you 
to take something alkaline, Alka-Seltzer, perhaps. Acid foods are rich 
in potassium; alkaline, in sodium. 
A few do’s and don'ts 
Learn above all to cook rice and to cook it well. One condition is to 
use a heavy cast-iron pot. Prior to cooking, wash the rice with cold 
water in a strainer, While cooking, never stir the rice, and keep it 
covered. 
‘ 
Sometimes when you cook rice, the bottom of the pot is slightly 
scorched. This part is yang, 
|t is very rich in minerals and very good 
for yin people. 
Zen Macrobiotic Cooking 
HOMEMADE 
CHRISTMAS 
SOUP 
Heat a few tbsp. oil in a large pot and in it brown 
one meaty soupbone and one large chopped onion. 
. 
2. Add just enough turmeric to make the onions yel-- 
low, 14 tsp. salt, pinch of pepper, 5 or 6 whole 
cloves, 
| bay leaf, '/, tsp. thyme and generous 
pinches of allspice and sage, and sauté for a few 
minutes. 
. Add 11 to 2 qts. water, part of which can be liq- 
uids saved from canned or cooked vegetables (corn 
juice is especially good) and about 4 tbsp. barley. 
Cover and simmer very slowly for around 2 hours. 
Now add 3 medium raw potatoes peeled and cut 
into small pieces, a couple of carrots cut up, and 
any leftover vegetables or noodles you have on 
hand. A bit of leftover cooked oatmeal is also very 
good. Add a small can of stewed tomatoes or a ripe 
tomato, chopped, and | pkg. of dehydrated vege- 
table soup, which can be omitted if you can’t find 
it. Simmer another half hour or until the vegetables 
are tender. 
6. While the soup continues to simmer for a few more 
minutes, remove the bone from the pot; and when 
it’s cool enough to handle, cut off all possible meat, 
dice and return meat to the soup. Turn off the heat. 
7. Let the soup “stand” for at least 5 minutes before 
serving with a simple salad and good cheese and 
bread. Cheap red wine goes well with soup, prob- 
ably because it is the staple drink in countries where 
this sort of soup has long been made. 
See Epilog, pages 588-592 
MICHEL: ABEHSERA 
Michael Abehsera 
1968: 223 pages 
$1.25 plus $.15 postage 
from: 
: 
Avon Books Mail Order Dept. 
— 
250 West 55th Street 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
et: 
MACROBIONC 
COOKING. 
ORIENTAL ANDTRADMONAL 
RECIPES 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
See Epilog, page 591 
“Tassajara Cooking” 
THE AGENT RT OF SAECIRNG 
wD 
NG S00 KOK 
LOOIGEVITY RID PERIVENETION 
Goodcookbooks 
Larousse Gastronomique in English 
the history of the civilized use of food 
articles on all kinds of Western food & a little oriental 
full access to the secrets of the ultimate in Western cooking 
not for “the modern housewife” 
read about what you are eating at the dinnertable! 
“Tt is very difficult to think about anything but food when 
eating. ”—Gertrude Stein 
(Please include a word of caution about Rambauer-Becker next 
time: 
the instructions are over-simplified; the recipes are -hodge- 
podges; there are a great many obvious errors in the use of the 
symbols & you have to refer all around in the book. Also, the OLD 
Fanny Farmer should be reprinted. 
Classical American cooking, 
for the faint-hearted) 
How to Cook a Wolf—by M.F.K. Fisher 
A humanistic survival book for periods of shortage and 
extreme poverty (such as WWII in Europe ) (when it was 
written) in Western societies. 
Very funny & a little sexy. 
World—publisher, Cleveland. 
Still in print?? 
“To work! to Work! for Heavens sake! The Wolf 
is at the door!” 
(do you hate the French? 
You have hardly anything French in 
your whole thing. They are great. [Yeah.—SB] 
Frederick Ted Castle 
New York, N.Y. 
“What am | on,” said D.R: “|! think that what | am on is 
intensity. Intensity and precision. 
! feel very intense and precise 
today.” 
"Ils that what they’re dealing in Cincinnati?” asked the Flash. 
D.R. laughed. ‘Yeah. You get it out of the vending machines 
in these little theaters.” 
“"Well,”” said the Flash. ‘It sounds like old Cincinnati is really 
where it’s at.” 
“Most definitely,” said D.R. “Without question. Most de- 
finitely.” 
u 
“Listen,” said the Flash. ‘Where's Estelle?” 
"The bus station. Hey Flash, listen: is it cool! that | called? 
| mean, ! know this is on your bill. But you got money, right? 
You still got all your money?” 
“Still got it,” said the Flash. 
“Okay, and you can stake me to this call, right? | mean I 
don't want to impose it...” 
"Carte blanche, man,” said the Flash. “You sound to me like 
you need a friend.” 
D.R. laughed. ‘Well, we all need friends, Flash. But I’m all 
, 
tight. I’ve just got stuff on my mind. A lot of new stuff is going 
on. | mean, two days ago | couldn't even talk. I’ve been kind of 
bummed out, but ! feel pretty good now. Hey Flash?” 
"Yeah, man.” 
é 
“Listen, | really thank you for the use of that card. 
It really 
saved our ass.” 
“No sweat,” said the Flash. “What's Estelle doing at the bus 
station?”’ 
“Hanging around. Hey Flash, guess what my nephew said this 
afternoon. He’s this nine year old jockstrap in the Little League, 
see, really far-out kid. I|-come in, our first conversation he says, 
‘You're a turd.’ And then he says, ‘You’re a queer, why don’t 
you go out and have a car wreck?’ ” 
"Nice kid,” said the Flash. 
"No man, ! mean he’s far out. 
It’s pretty wild around here.” 
“So you've already seen your sister.” 
_ 
“Yeah, |-was out there: Say, man, what time is it anyway?” 
“It's eight o’clock in California. 
Listen, old friend, I’m worried 
about you, No offense, but it sounds to me like Cincinnati ain‘t 
no healthy place for a righteous dude to be.” 
“Ahh,” said D.R. “It’s all just a movie. 
It’s just another 
quadruple feature happening simultaneously all around, it’s okay.” 
“That's what you say,’ said the Flash. “But that ain't how you 
sound. 1’m afraid you're not trusting in the Lord enough.” 
D.R. laughed. The Anaheim Flash asked him what was 
funny. 
“What you said. | heard that as a line of dialogue from the 
“lady in the movie. 
It’s pretty funny.” 
The Anaheim Flash asked D.R. how the lady was getting along. 
“Not too good, I’m afraid. The freak won't get out of the 
phone booth. She’s got her nose up against the screen now, 
peering right in on him.” 
- 
“Why don't the freak kiss her?’’ said the Flash. 
"Flash, you're a genius,” said D.R. And D.R. puckered up 
and leaned forward and kissed the movie screen as the woman, 
horrified, drew away. 
‘ 
“Did he kiss her?” asked the Flash. 
But D.R. was laughing too hard to answer. He laughed so 
hard and so long he finally had to tell the Flash it didn’t look like 
he was going to be able to go on with the conversation. The Flash 
said he guessed he’d hang-up then. 
“But listen, man, stay cool, you hear? You take care, and 
tell Estelle she’s much loved, okay? Tell her Angel really wants 
to hear from her.”’ 
“Right,” said D.R. “And | thank you for talking to me, | 
really do.” 
“Anytime, man,” said the Flash. 
The Anaheim Fiash hung up then, and D.R. went on listening 
to the dial tone. 
Community 
