ae 
Ca 
are 
ee eae 
ee 
Oe 
ee 
le 
ee oe 
Pee 
Ae 
1 le 
Good Tools That Shoot. 
The recent suggestions in the Supplement re: 
black powder shooting 
led me to attempt laying a double of heavy thoughts on you, one on 
cheap shooting, and one on a couple of good buys for communes 
who need game (and other interested parties.) 
Reloading: 
All right, black powder is cheap. Also messy, and damn 
dangerous to keep around your pad. Also, from now on, you have 
to register it. If you want cheap shooting with some other advan- 
tages, try handloading, using the Lee Reloader ($9.95 usually. dis- 
counted to $7—$8, includes all the tools you need except some kind 
of hammer). 
Advantages: 
1.)— it’s cheap; | shoot .30/06 ammunition that is 
just about as powerful as factory ammo only it costs me $1.57 for 
20 as opposed to $5.30+ for 20 factory rounds. 
Using cast bullets 
for practice, it costs me 97d for 20. 
2.) Hand-loads are more 
accurate. Want proof? All current records for accuracy were set 
using hand-loaded ammunition, in some cases using the ‘cheap’ 
little Lee Reloader. 
For me, 5 shot groups on my iron-sighted 
Springfield shrink from 2+” (factory) to about 1°’ with hand- 
loads. 
3.) You can load weights and styies of bullets not available 
in commercial factory ammo. Example, the Speer 165-gr. .30/06 
bullet is the best all-round bullet for the ‘06, combining high 
down range velocity like the 150-gr. and high energy like the 180- 
and 220-gr. 
What you need to reload: 
Principally, some time, a little patience 
and capacity for taking a very pains, some freedom from distrac- 
tion while actually working and a too! with maybe a few accessories; 
THE TOOL is the Lee Reloader, which comes with complete in- 
structions, in any rifle, pistol, or shotgun size you need: It includes 
everything you need to reload ammunition for all guns with the 
possible exception of relatively weak lever actions; namely the 
Winchester 94's which are notorious for stretching brass badly. As 
a guide, if you can re-chamber the fired case and re-extract and 
eject it, you don’t have to full-length resize your brass and can use 
the Lee Reloader. Should you have a gun that does stretch your 
brass too badly, either get rid of it or get the hand-operated full- 
length re-sizing dies that L.E. Wilson, Cashmere, Washington sells 
for $9.95. Although | have some-pretty complicated, sophisticated 
equipment, including bench press and scales, | use my Lee Reloader 
for almost all of my reloading because of its simplicity and re- 
liability and effectiveness. 
= 
A FEW ACCESSORIES: The Lee Reloading manual tells you most 
anything you‘ll ever want to know about reloading for 98¢. The best 
reloading manuals are the Lyman ones, if you want to go big time, or 
load cast bullets, and they are $3.95 for shotguns and $4.95 for the 
combined Rifle-Pistol manual. Other worthwhile accessories include: 
—The Lee Powder Measure Kit ($3.95) includes enough different 
scoop type measures that you can load many more different loads than 
you can with the single measure in the Reloader Tool. 
—The Lee Priming Tool, $3.95 for rifles and pistols is quieter and 
easier to use than the system in the tool itself. You can get inter- 
changeable bases too so you can then use the tool for many calibers. 
—The Lee Crimp Starter for Shotgun Shells (95¢) is a MUST if you 
toad shotgun shells with plastic bodies (and you shouldn't bother 
messing with paper shells unless you have to.) You will need two, 
the six- and eight-segment crimp starters. 
While you don’t really need other tools, there are two accessories 
that | like. One is the Pacific MESUR-KIT (8.95) which is a portable 
powder measure that is accurate to + .2 grs. which is pretty good. 
You get a lot of versatility through combining charges (DO NOT 
FORGET THAT FOR EACH OPERATION OF THE MEASURE YOU 
SHOULD ADD ANOTHER .2 Grs. Probable Error), and it’s good for 
large scale operations or quantity reloading and more convenient 
than the.Lee dippers. A bullet loading block (out of plastic with 
holes bigenough for your cases to sit in) helps operations by keeping 
cases segregated according to what step you are on. Finally, if you 
are a true accuracy enthusiast, the Target Model Lee Reloader at 
$24.95 contains everything you need to reload ammunition that 
will be about as accurate as any in the world. 
Finally, a note of caution and a suggestion: 
Don’t use powders 
unless you know what they are, and don't buy advertised surplus 
powders unless they are sold by B.E. Hodgdon because otherwise 
they may not be what they are advertised and you might lose your 
head over the deal— 
literally! 
For advice, suggestions, and pretty 
solid opinions on reloading and shooting, the NRA has experts who 
will provide about all the answers you need for $6 a year. 
It’s a 
good investment, and like the man said, they do try to protect your 
right to have guns legally. 
A SECOND SUGGESTION: 
Dempster on Good Gun Buys. 
All right, so you've decided you've got to get a gun for some 
reason or other, including just the joy of owning a good tool. What 
you get depends on what you'll use it for. Here are some sugges- 
tions for some really good gun buys for the subsistence— dare we 
say pot?— hunter, the commune, and the guy who just wants a 
good gun. 
There are two kinds of .22’s and both are useful. 
If you only want 
target practice and an occasional squirrel or rabbit for the pot (yes 
a .22 will kill moose but don’t try it), get a .22 Long Rifle. 
If you 
want a cheap varmint rifle that really does enough power for any- 
thing smaller than deer up to 125 yards, get a .22 Winchester Magnum 
Rimfire (.22WMR) which up to 50 yards ina 
rifle with a careful 
chest hit will (illegally) do a deer in. For cheap target practice 
since the magnum ammunition is expensive, use .22 CB caps made 
by CCI. These CB caps and .22 Winchester Special are the only 
other kinds of **.22 ammo” that you can safely use in a Magnum. 
The best and cheapest buys in .22’s are the Savage-Stevens 34 
ane Short, long, and Long Rifle) at $39.95 or 34-M (.22 WMR) at 
44.95. 
If | could have only one gun, it would be the Savage 24-S which 
has a .22 Magnum (also available in .22 LR) rifle barrel over a 20 
gauge 3’ magnum barre! (will fire 2 3/4” shells also). These cost 
$63.95, usually discounted, which is less than the price of separate 
rifles and shotguns. The shotgun patterns well and a 20 gauge 
shotgun is big enough for any bird, rabbit, etc. or even deer with 
readily available rifled slugs while the .22WMR gives you a pretty 
decent rifle. I'd get a Lee Reloader in 20 gauge to go with it. 
If you reload, forget a pump or automatic shotgun. They aren't 
sporting or pretty or anything else anyway. A double costs a little 
more in a bare model, but handles better, and while digest your 
-handloads (this is not a problem for rifles and pistols) without a 
bobble. The best buy is the Savage-Stevens 311 at $109.95, 
usually discounted, and also available more cheaply under Western 
ae 
Auto and Sears brand names. 
Big Game Rifles: With good shooting, a 30/30 will do fine up to 
150 yards on deer (black bear, antelope) and with good bullet 
placement, will kill an elk up to 100 yards pretty well. While the 
lever action Winchester 94 isn’t very accurate unless you pay 
at 
Guns 
Nomadics 
Golden Age Arms 
This company offers reproductions of muzzle-loading firearms 
(pistols and rifles— BOTH percussion cap and flintlock). All parts 
and accessories offered. 
i.e., Flintlock rifle— overall length 5542”, weights 8% lbs., .45 caliber 
7 groove 13/16” barrel mounted curly maple stock. $295.00 plus 
$3.00 shipping. 
All kinds of powder horns, flasks or the components to make your 
own. Bullet molds, stag slabs for knife handles or pistol grips. 
Sheffield knife blanks, eee handles only. Highly polished and 
handhoned. 
6” Bowte $3.50 
4” Skean Dhu $1.50 
Tricorn hats $12.00 
Deerskins, patterns, tools for making hunting shirts, moccasins 
Books on firearms. 
The best buy is tomahawk kit, hand-forged ae hardwood handle, 
wedge, thong & decorative brass tacks. $4.95 postpaid. Perfectly 
balanced for throwing and an excellent light belt ax as well as an 
efficient weapon. 
Tomahawk heads 
cast steel $5.50 
cast brass $6.50 
A catalog is.available for $1.50 from: 
Golden Age Arms Co., Inc. 
P.O. Box 83 
Worthington, Ohio 43085 
Submitted by 
Kenneth Cowing 
Meriden, Conn. 
Golden Age Arms 
$45.00 Each 
Postage: 50¢ 
~ 
MASLIN 
Golden Age Mountianman Rifle Kit 
Flintlock $104.50- 
Postage $5.00 
Percussion $94.50 
Postage $5.00 
Contains Grade-B stock; barrel and breech plug; single trigger; 
Hamm or Robbins lock of your choice; hand-forged butt plate; 
trigger guard; ramrod pipes; underpinning strip. 
(1971 Prices) - 
All This Information 
All this information comes to life at the twice-summerly 
National Muzzle Loading Rifle Assoc. shoots in Friendship, 
Indiana. 
It is truly weird and magnificent to see a bunch of 
right-wing gun nuts dressed up in fringed buckskin and long 
hair and impossible to distinguish from visiting freaks also 
dressed in. . .well, you get the picture. 
Car! Fleischauer 
Morgantown, West Virginia 
SEB RRBRRHRHF ERR 
RRR ERR 
eee 
about $8 for a peep sight which you can put on yourself, and are 
willing to hand-load with the aid of the Wilson Full-Length Sizing 
dies and the Lee Reloader, for $55 to $75 (it lists at $99.95 but 
is widely discounted) it’s not a bad buy, especially if you combine 
it with a Savage 24-S for a good two-gun battery. The best buy in 
a .30/30 though is the Savage 340 bolt action which will be priced 
from $78 to $89 depending on discount— the cheaper Springfield 
840 is the same gun for less money. A more accurate fast repeater 
in .30/30 than the Winchester is the pump action Savage 170 which 
is usually discounted to $75 from $99.95. Don’t ever bother with 
a scope for any .30/30. 
If both deer and smaller game are your would-be bag, get the 
Remington 788 bolt-action repeater in .243 Winchester for 
_ 
< 
$109.95 with a 4X Universal scope. ($99.95 or less without). 
If 
Elk or Moose are a regular thing with you, get the 788 in .308 
Winchester— same prices. This is a very strong and accurate gun. 
Elk will fall. to a .243. 
The best ‘expensive’ all-round rifle if you hand-load and want to 
make do with only one rifle for everything that is good-looking is 
the Winchester 770 in .270 or (later this year) .25-06. The Reming- 
ton competitor, the 700 ADL lists for $10 more but sometimes is 
discounted to a lower price. The very best Deluxe rifles are the 
Ruger 77 Bolt Action ($175), the Sako Finnbear bolt action ($220) 
and the Ruger Number One Single Shot ($285.) The only surplus 
rifles that |. 
would ever trust are the British Enfield .303 British 
which comes in a variety of styles from a long rifle-musket to a 
jungle carbine (price $35-60 depending on model) and the US 
Enfield and Springfield (if marked Springfield Armory, the serial 
number should be above 880,000 or so) about $45-60. My own 
rifle is a Springfield which | restocked myself, and I’ve been very 
happy with it. 
Good luck, good living, good hunting, and good shooting, 
Shalom, 
Cliff Dempster 
Missoula, Montana 
/ 
- make a mess of your weapon. These guns ain't too hard (or too much 
- (7) For all types of guns get a copy of Guns Illustrated 1970 by the 
-KER—PLOW! Gottim. nics 
Deer Friends, 
In one issue of W.E. I saw a riff about weapons, can’t recall when/ 
where but mentioned stuff re. crossbows, guns, flintlock/percussion 
muzzle loaders. Well, as it turns ‘out if you want a weapon that’s 
powerful fun and pretty legal there’s only one way— 
| 
Jodo 
Black Powder (rifles & 
pistols) 
ioccc AA 
‘See, these can be sent thru mail with no restrictions (check local laws 
tho) to anyone. To get a pistol you have to say you're 21. Big deal. 
Anyway, muzzle loading longarms (flintlocks and peeatiianes 
reasonably accurate, make one fuck of a big beautiful noise. Same for 
— 
pistols. Also very cheap, like maybe 1/10 cost to shoot than cartridge — 
weapons. Calibres .36 **** 
“infinity (flintlocks 
& shotguns). These 
guns are modeled after old timey (thymey ?) type guns like model 
.36 cal Navy percussion revolver or Kentucky type squirrel guns, as 
examples 
Sources: get a gun” mag. like Shooting Times or Guns & Ammo 
i 
and look at prices, descriptions, and pictures. (fetishists take particular — 
note). OR 
: 
Centennial Arms Corp. 
3318 W. Devon Ave., Lincolnwood, Ill. 60645 
(price list $1.00!!) (“You can’t always get what you want...”’) 
OR. 
= 
Dixie Gun Works 
Dept. 1, Union City, Tenn. 38161 
: 
catalogue $2.00--250 pages!!! Lots of good stuff 
OR 
Any other places you might See in a gun mag. 
Notes: (1) Dixie’s cat. is VERY far out. They are honest!!! 
(2) Centennial is good and cheap and has nifty pistols. Their pistols 
“(Italian & Belgium) are well made for the price--like $39.95 for a 
steel frame 36 cal percussion pistol. Beware of pistols ovér .36 with 
brass frames, steel 1s stronger. 
(3) NEVER, NEVER, NEVER use smokeless powder— 
if you do YOU will be blown to shit. USE BLACK POWDERONLY. 
Tt is very safe-—smash it with a hammer and it won’t 
go off. Only ignites 
by spark (from flint or percussion cap) 
| 
(4) Make sure the weapon you buy has been “proofed” (tested) so 
that you can be sure it won't blow up--beware of “trade” guns. 
You get what you pay for. 
(5) Clean your gun regularly. Black powder is CORROSIVE and can 
fun either) to clean--find out the best way from someone who knows- i 
or make up your own way. 
(6) When a flintlock goes off it’s the most far-out. There’s a snap, 
whoosh and a BOOM. Percussion ones just go BOOM*. Anyway if you 
want to stay on friendly terms with yourneighbors, tell them when 
you're going hunting, target shooting, poaching so they. don’t think 
you're playing Lawrence of Arabia blowing up trains. 
(* like a cherry bomb in a 50 gal. oil drum.) 
editors of The Gun Digest. It has everything legal in it. All types of 
guns, pistols, derringers, etc. Unfortunately it costs $2.95. If you're 
serious it’s worth it. 
(8) Join the NRA. The NRA establishment freaks want to repeal kun 
laws. They ’re all perverts but join them it’s a good cause. 
(9) What the world needs now is a better Anarchy. 
Peace, 
Crazy Bill 
Allston, Massachewsit. 
PLINKER PERCUSSION FULLSTOCK 
RIFLE 
KIT 
USING 14/16” BARREL BLANK, Calibers .32, .38, or .43. 
| 
Specify caliber. KIT # 108 — 
2 ee $35.35 
“Disde ‘Gul Works aii 
SPARE PARTS FOR THE REPRODUCTION 
COLT WALKER REVOLVES 
Butt screw 
Backstrap 
screw 
Rear guard screw 
- 
Front guard screw _. 
NRA 
National Rifle Association is a bogey man to many people, and this 
is perfectly understandable.- There ate a lot of flag-freaks 
and super- 
patriots involved in it. They are against gun legislation. If you can 
stan 1 reading any further, good information is coming. 
4 
The NRA, for all its faults, provides many valuable services, many 
_ 
of them free. If you must supplement community food supplies, 
hunting is a good way to do it, if you are not morally opposed to 
that sort of thing. Most of the people in the NRA are pretty 
reasonable types— either target shooters who damage only paper 
targets, or hunters who eat what they kill. Their needs are catered 
to in the American Rifleman, a monthly magazine that is paid for 
by your club dues. This journal will, every month, teach you things 
about hunting and shooting, cooking, storing, skinning and pre- 
paring game, the advantages and disadvantages of different pieces 
of equipment, field techniques, and it will keep you up to ‘date 
on gun laws in all areas— even abroad. ‘Any member needing help 
with something to do with guns can write to the NRA and get 
personal help— good help— free. Membership is $7.50 a year. 
National Rifle Association, 1600 Rhode Island Ave., N.W., 
Wastinasor DC 20036 
Bill Marsano 
Radnor, Pa. 
