Fleming Bottle and Jug Cutter 
The bottle cutter makes a practical tool. By following the instructions 
and with some practice anyone can turn out interesting glasses, mugs 
and vases. 
The kit will cut anything from an eight ounce bottle to a 
§ gallon jug. We don’t even take back bottles with deposits anymore. 
Wine bottles make interesting pilseners. Beer bottles make excellent 
glasses in sets of six, plus you get to drink the beer. We've given them 
as wedding presents and people really dig them. 
If you hate the 
thought of all that wasted glass like | do, you’ll write to Floyd Fleming. 
' 
His instructions are personable and informative. 
[Suggested and reviewed by Pat Milberry] 
Jug & Bottle Cutter 
$9.95 postpaid 
from: 
Fleming Bottle & Jug Cutter 
P.O. Box 6157 
Seattle. Wash. 98116 
or WHOLE EARTH 
CATALOG 
The trick is to tap 
the bottle from the 
inside; that way the 
bottle doesn't break. 
(L to R): cutting, 
tapping, finished. 
product. 
Hand Washers 
A BEAUTIFUL WASHING MACHINE IS 
MADE OUT OF USING A "PLUMBER'S 
HELPER''—PUMPING IT UP AND DOWN 
IN ANY SUDSY LAUNDRY CONTAINER 
FROM BUCKET TO BATHTUB 
NORMAN SOLOMAN 
BERKELEY CALIF. 
We asked Dale Fritz, a Peace Corps agricultural spe- 
cialist and former Volunteer for Technical Assistance 
-(VITA), who has years of experience overseas. 
As it turned out, Fritz himself is the father of a simple 
hand-operated washing machine that has been featured 
for years in the Agency for International Development's 
(AID) Village Technology Handbook: What is the oper- 
ating principle of the machine, we asked Fritz. 
“Agitation, just agitation,’ 
he replied. 
“You could take a stick and stand there and stir it,’’ 
he added, “‘It’s just the motion of the water. The 
clothes don’t even have to move at all . 
. 
. It’s just the 
water moving back and forth through the clothing that 
“does the cleaning. The soap breaks down the dirt; and 
the water carries it away.” 
Well, we asked, if that is the principle, are there any 
other solutions to the washing plobiem that are 
simpler than yours? 
Sure, he said. If you have a vehicle, throw your clothes 
into some kind of a closed container—like a milk can— 
add soap and hot water and put the container onto 
the back of your machine. Leave it there all day as 
you make your rounds—preferably 
over the roughest 
available roads—and when you get back in the evening 
you'll have a load of clean clothes. 
That method has been used by bachelor ranchers in 
the western. United States for years. 
From Volunteer Magazine 
Published by the Peace Corps 
James Clothes Washer 
are flimsy. 
from: 
Route 1 
Ice Cream Freezer 
I’m sure there are many lovers of home-cranked ice cream (and who 
. 
isn’t one?) who have been somewhat dismayed at the chinsy ice 
cream freezers now being turned out with their predominately plastic 
parts. These people can now wnite for info and prices to the White 
Mountain Freezer Co., Winchendon, Mass. 01475 and be sure of 
getting a solid, quality piece of machinery that will last for years. 
There are two models available, the Mod. 643 White Mountain 
triple-motion, in sizes from two to 20 quarts and whose folder I 
have enclosed, and the Mod. 642 Arctic double-motion in 2, 4, 
6, and & quart sizes. 
I have never seen these freezers sold in the mainland U.S. though 
when I was in Puerto Rico in 1964 on a school trip I saw them in 
various hardware stores along with kerosene lanterns and stoves, and 
treadle-driven Singer sewing machines (new ones!). Often.in San 
Juan one would see a street vendor with two of the large 20 quart 
freezers mounted on his pushcart selling nickel cups of ice cream 
to passers-by. 
William M. Fetcher 
CINC PAC FLT Band 
Garbage Diverter 
One of the handiest gadgets in electric kitchens, as any upper middie 
class housewife can tell you, is the garbage disposer. Chuck onion 
peels , egg shells, moldy yoghurt, etcetera into it, flip the switch, and 
presto! All the stinky wet garbage disappears down the drain, born 
by clean water. 
As the ecologically enlightened know, that stinky garbage is also 
potentially rich garden soil. There is something in my Scot’s cells 
that rebels against this kind of waste. So the other day I askeda 
mechanic friend to create for me a device I had designed to capture 
the ground-up organic material before it goes down the drain. He 
didit. Now I am using the disposer’s ground-up output plus the 
water in my garden instead of running it out into Bolinas lagoon. 
I call the gadget Margot Doss’s Little Jim Dandy Garbage Diverter 
and have applied for a patent. 
The gung-ho back-to-nature buffs may. shriek: 
ue 
That it uses electricity 
oh 
That you can do the same thing in a blender 
eR 
That composting does the work in time 
The answer to all these is yes, of course. Apart from that, a blender 
must be cleaned after every use, and the gunk that comes out of 
the Diverter is ground so fine it speeds up the composting consider- 
ably. I hope the Little Jim Dandy Garbage Diverter will introduce 
a lot of people to the mystique of organic gardening. 
1f your 1 2aders seem interested, I will also sell the plans for one 
sawbuck. Anyone who wants a reservation on this trip should send 
a self-c-.dressed legal sized envelope and $1 to Little Jim Dandy 
Garbage Diverters, Box 447, Bolinas 94924. 
Cordially. 
Margot Patterson Doss 
Bolinas, California 
James Washer $49.80 
Wringer 
$21.00 
(plus shipping) 
S&H Metal Products 
RR No. 1 Box 57 
Topeka, Indiana 46571 
Canadian residents write to: 
Elmer S. Kuepfer 
Newton, Ontario, Canada 
! don’t know anybody who’s used one of these. 
It looks 
like it would do the job. May need a little bracing, the legs 
—SB 
[Suggested by Reed Plankenhorn] 
are 
ah 
Re pail 
Ultra-Sonic Dishwasher? 
The home dishwasher probably wastes as much or more water than 
a garbage disposal unit. Certainly it can be improved. 
Watchmakers 
and jewelers are beginning to use small “sonic cleaners”’ that clean 
watches and suchlike with high-frequency sound waves. 
Why can’t 
a dish washer be built on the same principle? 
Bill Marsano 
Radnor, PA 
SE Seswee— 
Se 
“Doyle started having dreams,” said Marcella. 
"\ did,” said Doyle. ‘It was the unusualist thing that ever 
was. After we got back from Clarence’s funeral | commenced to 
dream about him ever night. And if it wouldn’t be him it would 
be somebody else that had died. My father, your all’s father, or 
somebody in my acquaintance whose death | knew something 
about. 
It was just death ever where | looked, it was all | could 
think about. 
| got afraid | was going to die, or Marcella, or one 
of the kids, you can ask Marcella here, it was really an awful thing 
to go through. Nothing like that had ever happened to me be- 
fore, and | just couldn’t understand it. Ever night I’d go to bed 
and lay there all night thinking about death and dead people and 
dying and I'd think: well surely Ill get over this tomorrow. 
But 
then when I'd get to work there it would be, right up in front of 
my mind. 
| couldn't hardly work. Vernis noticed it and asked 
me about it. Some of our customers even noticed something was 
wrong. This all went on | guess a month or more till finally | 
just had to do something about it. And so Marcella called her 
preacher up and asked him to come over and talk to me about it.” 
“He's a real nice man, David,” said Marcella. ““He’s from 
Kentucky too, just smart as a tack. You'd really like him.” 
"Half of Cincinnati's from Kentucky,” said Doyle. ‘This is 
briar-hopper country sure enough.” 
“How well | know,” said D.R. 
“I'd say it improves the place about five hundred per cent 
myself,” said Marcella, and everybody came out of their seriousness 
to laugh hard at that. 
When they’d hushed, D.R. asked Doyle what he had said to 
the preacher. 
"Shoot. | just told him the truth of it. | told him ! thought 
| was going crazy. 
| said | was having dreams and couldn't sleep 
and couldn't work, and terrible headaches. 
| told him | was afraid 
| was about to die. But that little preacher was the sweetest to 
me that you ever saw. 
| was about half embarrassed to be talking 
to somebody about that kind of stuff, but | mean he seemed to 
know what was going on in me even before | told him. He asked 
me if | was a Christian. | said no. He asked me if i'd like to be 
one. 
| said | hadn’t thought about it. You know what he did when 
| said that? He bust out laughing. Just laughed and laughed and 
laughed, | didn’t know what to think. Then he said, oh yes you 
have. 
| said what do you mean? He said oh yes you have been 
thinking about it. Then suddently he quit laughing and looked me 
right in the eye and said, what are you afraid to die for? | said 
ain't everybody? He said we ain’t talking about everybody, we're 
talking about you. What are you so scared to die for? What makes 
you think that’s so awful? And just about the time | begun to 
wonder if he was crazy why he got out his bible and commenced 
to read about Jesus, and about dying, and about being re-born, 
and ! begun to see what he meant. He must of talked to me two 
or three hours that night. And the next night, and the next.” 
"He stayed till two o’clock in the morning one time,” said 
Marcella. 
“He can just talk rings around you. He can say stuff you think 
ain’t never been said before, he’s really clever. He come over the 
to: th time on Friday night, and guess what he said. He said he 
wasn't going to come see me no more. He said if | wanted to 
know what he had to say he was preaching ever Sunday morning 
at eleven o’clock, and for me to be there. And I ain’t missed a 
Sunday s‘r :e. And after three times | confessed, and then about 
a month ago they baptized me, and I've slept good ever since.” 
201 
Gadgets 
Community 
