How To Survive in Your Native Land 
/ like, enjoy, learn from this book of schoo! adventures. 
| 
can see that teaching will drive a person either crazier or 
saner. 
This book may help on the sane end. 
—SB 
How To Survive in Your Native Land 
HOW TO 
James Herndon 
QU RY 1\ I< IN 
1971; 192 
pp. 
A 
A 
YOUR NATIVE 
$1.25 postpaid 
LAND 
* from: 
James Herndon 
Bantam Books 
surat 
666 Fifth Ave. 
Vir rag Mt 
Sresedd fo 
B 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
See Epilog, pages 720-721 
. Couldn't have it! We soothed him, agreeing to tell Piston in no 
uncertain terms.and so on. We walked outside with Lou, who had 
calmed down and had begun admiring the kite in retrospect, realiz- 
ing that there was no way such a creation could fly (aerodynamic- 
ally speaking, he said), and yet it did fly and this Piston or whatever 
his name was must be a pretty exceptional kid, and we were agreeing 
and realizing what a great guy Lou was for a principal even if, we 
reminded him, he had goofed up our schedule for this marvelous 
class we'd planned which had resulted in that extraordinary kite and 
other grand exploits, along with, we admitted, a certain amount of 
difficulty for him, Lou, and how well he’d handled it and supported 
us and. ..when Lou suddenly screamed Aaarrghhh! and fell back. 
_| thought he’d been stung by a bee—we’d had a lot of bees that 
year, which also interrupted Egypt quite a bit, flying in the class- 
room where kids could scream with fake or real fear or try to kill 
them by throwing objects, often Egypt books, at them, exempt 
' from retribution by the’ claim that they were just trying to save 
some allergic kid from death—but then he screamed There it is 
again! and pointed up, and there was The Monster From Outer 
Space, seventy-five feet up, plunging and wheeling and Jurching 
through the thin air, a ton of boards and heavy paper and ghouls 
and toothy vampires leering down at an amazed lunchtime populace 
of little seventh grade girls, all with mothers and phones. Jesus 
Christ, look out! yelled Lou, and rushed for the playground, just as 
the giant came hurtling down like a dead flying mountain. 
It 
crashed; seventh grade girls scattered. 
(Their mothers reached for 
the phones.) 
Kids rushed from every direction and hurled them- 
selves at the kite. They stomped it and tore it and killed it in wild- 
Push Back the Desks 
Every effective teacher has had projects and ideas which 
really turned kids on, but most of them don’t take the time 
to write about just what it is that makes their classes 
remembered by former students as ‘one of the best years 
ever.” Albert Cullum did, and his enthusiasm and involve- 
ment with his class of elementary kids over a twenty-year 
span spill over to the reader in a veritable flood of ideas, 
theories, and teacher war stories. He is explicit enough 
about his projects to make them instantly available-to any 
admirer, but the major strength of the book is its ability to 
awaken a hundred or so related ideas in the teachers who 
read it. /t is teachers like Mr. Cullum who epitomize the best 
aspects and possibilities of the self-contained classroom for 
elementary school children. 
4 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Caro! Guyton Goodel/] 
Push Back the Desks 
Albert Cullum 
1967; 224 pp. 
$2.65 postpaid from: 
Citation Press 
50 West 44th Street 
New York, N.Y. 10036 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
| have found that children are interested in two things—doing and 
doing now. Children are looking for the unexpected, not the safe; 
children are looking for noise and laughter, not quiet; children are 
looking for the heroic, not the common. 
Shakespeare may be for scholars to debate and discuss and philoso- 
phize over, but he is also for Corky, a fifth-grader who died beautifully 
as Julius Caesar, There are ‘murderers’-galore in the elementary 
schools ready to help Macbeth kill Banquo; many a fifth- and sixth- 
grade girl can really whip up a moment of insanity as Ophelia. 
Schools 
Learning 
On Federal Help 
July 20, 1970 
Hon. John Brademas, Chairman 
Committee on Education and Labor 
Select Subcommittee on Education 
U.S. House of Representatives 
Washington, D.C. 20515 
Sir: 
Thank you for the opportunity to testify before your committee. 
Iam delighted by the spirit behind your Environmental Quality 
Education Act (H.R. 14753) and depressed by every measure in it. 
I’m a former ecology student, and I can report that ecology asa 
science is pretty boring. Definitely not for everyone. 
Ecology as a movement, as a religion, is tremendously exciting, and 
everyone can get a piece of the fervor. 
However, this voluntary mass education could be poisoned by 
Federal “help”’, as highly-intentional over-specialized application 
of fertilizers and pesticides has damaged other natural growth 
processes. 
In my experience, the whole apparatus of application, approval, 
and funding commonly introduces a dishonesty into an operation 
that can never be eradicated. And if the operation is educational, 
dishonesty is the death of it. 
I see that the bill provides for preparing information specifically 
for mass media use. Involvement of Government with mass com- 
munications in this manner strikes me as dangerous as re-joining 
Church and State. 
! 
If Federal funds are to be spent on environmental matters, let them 
go to: 
1) The space program which has given us the anti-environmental 
perspective to see our planet whole and alive and in hazard. 
est glee. They lynched it and murdered it and executed it and 
mercy-killed it and put it out of its misery, and when it was over 
and Lou had everyone pulled off the scattered corpse of the kite 
and sitting down on benches and shut up there was nothing left of 
it but bits and pieces of painted butcher paper and 1 x 2 boards and 
clothesline rope. 
© 
The school’s purpose is not teaching. The school’s purpose is to 
separate sheep from goats. 
.. 
- 
e 
Hooked on Books 
/f you’ve wrestled with ways to. teach a non-reader as a 
teacher, if you’ve wondered what you could do as a 
businessman to help an obviously weak reading program 
in your schools, or if you’re the worried parent of a Book 
Avoider, then you'll tear through Hooked on Books 
with a firelike fervor fed on rekindled hopes. 
Fader’s program involves the saturation of students’ 
surroundings with newspapers, magazines and paperbound 
books chosen because they are written on subjects relevant 
to the world outside a classroom. Diffusion of such 
: 
materials among teachers of al/ subjects and the use of 
writing, writing and more writing as the primary ways in 
which to teach English is another important tenet of 
this program. 
/t is a detailed report on an exciting and practical way 
to teach reading, and it’s laced with such well written 
anecdotes about the inmates of Maxey Boys Training 
Schoo! where this program was first tried that Big Bill, 
Superduck, Hogman, and Lester the Poet seem as real 
and as teachable as they were to the authors. 
[Suggested and reviewed by Caro! Guyton Goodell] 
Hooked on Books: eee and Proof 
Daniel Fader and Elton McNeil 
1968; 236 pp. 
$.75 postpaid 
from: 
Berkeley Medallion Corp. 
390 Murray Hill Parkway 
East Rutherford, N.J. 07073 
Hesked On 
Raoks: 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Those of us who participated in selecting the original 1,200 
titles for the Maxey paperback library will never again have to be 
reminded how little we know about the students we teach. None 
of us will forget the untouched 700 titles that decorated our 
gleaming drugstore spinners while the boys read and reread the 
500 they liked... 
. The 500 winners of our book Derby. are 
included in the Reading List (pp. 148-173). 
The boy turns, pulls out of his shirt Dick Gregory's From the 
Back of the Bus, waves it at the teacher, and shouts, “| bought 
it, man, | bought it! Bought four more while | was home. 
Didn't steal none!’’ Bought or stolen, those five books were 
the first that boy had ever owned. 
ee 
re 
- of Education could say, of all parents, ““You see, those people can- 
_ 
and regulations of the bureaucracy. 
we a 
» 
2) The World Game oe 
Buchorsten Fuller’s. This computer : 
operation is planned to perform for the Earth as NASA’s 
¥ 
computers did for Apollo 13. (Inventory resources, assess 
’ 
damage, compare alternative “futures”, select the most promis- 
ing, constantly.) 
- 
- 
3) Contingency planning for environmental disasters Ceca 
to long-range planning in the military. 
4) A “wet” NASA to investigate the sea and treat it like 
Antarctica, as a fragile, trans-national environment. (Use of the 
oceans must be governed from a Strictly environmental stand- 
point by an international body with a great deal more power to 
act than the U.N. has.) 
5) Rehabilitation for ecological disaster areas such as Lake Erie 
and Appalachian strip mine country. 
6) Ecology Action-type groups, but only for services rendered. 
Do not fund them, do not tax them, do not pass laws about 
them. 
When. they perform a service to Government, such as. 
investigation of environmental crimes, pay them for the infor- 
mation. - 
7) F ileal reports by independent groups of Federal actions 
affecting the environment. Do this asa built-in part 
of initial 
funding. Appropriations for a dam or a war would include 
money to go to the National Science Foundation or the Audubon 
Society or whoever to study the environmental effects of the 
— 
project and report on them. 
I realize that practically none of the above are the province of an 
Education Subcommittee. 
John. Holt has suggested that if we tried to teach infants to talk, 
they would never learn. I suspect it is the same with ecology. It 
must be learned. It is being learned. If you try to teach it io 
people, you will only teach them to hate tt. 
Let it be. 
Stewart Brand 
? 
Whole Earth Catalog 
Menlo Park, Sera 
. All of the talk about motivation or inspiring kids to learn or 
innovative courses which are relevant is horseshit. 
It is horseshit 
because there is no way to know if students really are interested-or 
not. No matter how bad the school is, it is better than jail. ... 
: 
e 
A while back at Spanish Main School, it came to pass that Immature 
was out of style, and Non-Achiever was in. That is what drives 
; 
everyone mad at a school, even if no one is aware that they are being 
driven mad. Humans like history, like to know why things start and ~ 
end, like to have reasons for it, and the school never has any reasons. 
It doesn’t have any because, in fact, it doesn’t have any. 
* 
How To Change The Schools 
ba 
An outraged parent can hinder or help a bad school. Here’s 
— 
how to help, and how to hinder in the right places. 
: 
e 
=SB 
How To Change The Schools 
How To 
1970; 293 pp. 
Change 
i 
$2.45 postpaid 
The 
ey 
schools 
rom: 
K 
Random House, Inc. 
Westminster, Md. 21157 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
. the moral which has been indelibly stamped on my brain is that” 
community groups must not fight each other, because when they 
do, only the school system wins. When the black parents demanded _ 
integration, the system labeled them irresponsible militants. When 
the white parents demanded educational improvements before they 
would accept integration, the system labeled them irresponstiste 
bigots. 
Meanwhile, in Washington Heights, busloads of black children were 
being transported into our neighborhood schools, only to be com- 
pletely abandoned once they arrived. The schools which. “received” 
them were given no special services; the teachers were given no 
q 
special training. The black children were left to learn as best they 
could, and having suffered years of educational neglect, they often 
failed. The white children watched the black kids fail, and had all 
— 
their preconceived prejudices reinforced. 
It seemed almost as if the bureaucrats downtown had arranged ae i 
thoughtless program so that the white parents could fight the black 
parents and the black parents could fight back. And the more the 
parents argued and fought, the more the professionals at the Board 
not be given any authority; look how irresponsible they are.” 
e 
You and other parents might organize a campaign to have all 
children who have been labeled “’slow”’ or retarded retested by 
non-Board of Education specialists. Get a volunteer team of 
doctors to check their eyes. Hundreds of ‘slow’ children have 
turned into geniuses overnight when they got eyeglasses. 
Insist that 
all Spanish-speaking children be retested in Spanish. 
otea 
e 
Principals will try to “buy off” the most articulate parents in your 
group by assigning their children to the top classes and best teachers, — 
or offering to transfer them to a ‘‘better school.” Don’t attack 
parents who take advantage of this offer. Remember their children, 
too, have only one chance for an education. 
Find ways to include 
these parents in your committee so you can still work together. 
The school system destroys many many children. But, just as 
important, it destroys most teachers. 
It does not care about 
teachers any more than it cares about children. 
It does not help 
teachers achieve any more than it helps children achieve. The 
oa 
system engulfs the hopeful, energetic, often idealistic young 
teachers. 
It rapidly dehumanizes them, squeezing and twisting 
warmth and compassion out of them, turning them into non- 
thinking machines which obey and enforce automatically the rules — 
