Man and His Symbols 
Carl Jung did a nice thing just before he died. He helped 
with a British effort to bring all of his work together in 
one richly illustrated introduction to the breadth of his 
realm. 
This book covers his concepts of the unconscious, 
myths, individuation, the visual arts, dreams, 
and analysis. 
Why aren’t all psychology books illustrated? 
Oe 
Man and His Symbols 
Carl G. Jung 
1964; 320 pp. 
$1.50 postpaid 
from: 
Dell Publishing Co. 
Dag Hammarskjold Plaza 
245 E. 47th St. 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
§ 
Carl G.Jung 
A still more subtle manifestation of a negative anima appears in some 
fairy tales in the form of a princess who asks her suitors to answer a 
series of riddles or, perhaps, to hide themselves under her nose. 
If 
they cannot give the answers, or if she can find them, they must die— 
and she invariably wins. The anima in this guise involves men in a 
destructive intellectual game. We can notice the effect of this anima 
trick in all those neurotic pseudo-intellectual dialogues that inhibit a 
a man from getting into direct touch with life and its real decisions. 
He reflects about life so much that he cannot live it and loses all his 
spontaneity and outgoing feeling. 
ge 
Oh, come, lonely hunter in the stillness of dusk. 
Come, come! 
| miss you, | miss you! 
Now | will embrace you, embrace you! 
Come, come! My nest is near, my nest is near. 
Come, come, lonely hunter, now in the stillness of dusk. 
He throws off his clothes and swims across the river, but suddenly she 
flies away in the form of an owl, laughing mockingly at him. When he 
tries to swim back to find his clothes, he drowns in the cold river. 
The sign is always less than the concept it represents, while a 
symbol always stands for something more than its obvious and 
immediate meaning. 
s 
r 
Abstract mandalas also appear in European Christian art. Some of the 
most splendid examples are the rose windows of the cathedrals. 
These are representations of the Self of man transposed onto the 
cosmic plane. (A cosmic mandala in the shape of a shining white 
rose was revealed to Dante in a vision.) We may regard as mandalas 
the haloes of Christ and the Christian saints in religious paintings. 
A car is another kind of possession that is usually feminized— 
i.e., that can become the focus of many men’s anima projections. 
— 
Like ships, cars are called ‘‘she,’’ and their owners caress and 
pamper them like favorite mistresses. 
When an individual makes an attempt to see his shadow, he becomes 
aware of (and often ashamed of) those qualities and impulses he 
denies in himself but can plainly see in other people... 
If you feel an overwhelming rage coming up in you when a friend 
reproaches you about a fault, you can be fairly sure that at this 
point you will find a part of your shadow, of which you are 
unconscious. 
* 
The archetypal sacred marriage (the union of opposites, of the 
male and female principles) represented here by a 19th-century 
Indian sculpture of the deities Siva and Parvati. 
; 
Psychological Reflections 
The selection ana editing of paragraphs from Jung’s writings 
by Jacobi is done with an informed sense of continuity, so 
that the book is readable in sequence or by bits. 
—SB 
The man who would learn the human mind will gain almost nothing 
from experimental psychology. Far better for him to put away his aca- 
demic gown, to say good-bye tothe study, and to wander with human 
heart through the world. There, in the horrors of the prison, the asylum, 
and the hospital, in the drinking-shops, brothels, and gambling hells, in 
the salons of the elegant, in the exchanges, socialist meetings, churches, 
religious revivals, and sectarian ecstacies, through love and hate, through 
the experience of passion.in every form in his own body, he would reap 
richer store of knowledge than text-books a foot thick could give him. 
Then would he know to doctor the sick with real knowledge of the 
human soul. 
e 
A neurosis has really come to an end when it has overcome the wrongly 
oriented ego. The neurosis itself is not healed; it heals us. The man is ill, 
but the illness is an attempt of nature to heal him. We can therefore 
learn a great deal for the good of our health from the illness itself, and 
that which.appears to the neurotic person as absolutely to be rejected 
is just the part which contains the true gold which we should otherwise 
never have found, 
e 
The secret of the earth is not a joke and not a paradox. We need only 
sée how in America the skull and hip-measurements of all European 
races become Indianized in the second generation. That is the secret 
of the American soil. And every soil has its secret, of which we carry 
an unconscience image in our souls: a relationship of spirit to body and 
of body to earth. 
The greater the contrast, the greater is the potential. Great energy only 
comes from a correspondingly great tension between opposites. 
Jun 
18 Whok Systems 
Psychological Reflections 
C. G. Jung [ed. Jacobi] 
1945, 1953, 1961; 340 pp. 
$2.95 
from: 
Princeton University Press 
Princeton, N.J. 08540 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
€.4.5UNG 
Rhy 
MRRIR: SERS 
No one develops his personality because someone told him it would be 
useful or advisable for him to do so. Nature has never yet allowed her— 
self to be imposed upon by well-meaning advice. Only coercion working 
— 
through casual connections moves nature, and human nature also. 
Nothing changes itself without need, and human personality least of 
all. It is immensely conservative, not to say inert. Only the sharpest. 
need is able to rouse it. The development of personality obeys no wish, 
no command, and no insight, but only need; it wants the motivating co- 
ercion of inner or outer necessities. Any other development would be 
individualism. This is why the accusation of individualism is a cheap 
insult when it is raised against the natural development of personality. 
— 
It is naturally a fundamental error to believe that if we see an anti- 
value in a value, or an untruth in a truth, the value or the truth is 
then invalid. They have only become relative. Everything human 
is relative, because everything depends upon an inner polarity, for 
everything is a phenomenon of energy. And energy itself necessarily 
depends on a previous polarity without which there can be no energy 
There must always be high and low, hot and cold, etc., so thet the 
process of adjustment which is energy, can occur. The tendency to 
deny all previous values in favour of their opposites is therefore just 
as exaggerated as the former one-sidedness. Where generally accep- _ 
ted and undoubted values are suddenly thrown away, there is a fatal 
loss. Whoever acts in this way ends by throwing himself overboard 
with the discarded values. 
. 
> 
e 
The gigantic catastrophes that threaten us are not elemental happenings 
of a physical or biological kind, but are psychic events. We are threat- 
ened in a fearful way by wars and revolutions that are nothing else than 
_ 
psychic epidemics. At any moment a few million people may be seized 
_ 
by a madness, and then we have another world war or devastatingrev- 
__ 
olution. Instead of being exposed to wild beasts, tumbling rocks, and 
inundating waters, man is exposed today to the elemental forces of his 
—_ 
own psyche. Psychic life is a world-power that exceeds by many times 
all the powers of the earth. The Enlightenment, which stripped nature 
and human institutions of gods, overlooked the one god of fear who 
dwells in the psyche. Fear of God is in place, if anywhere, before the 
_ 
domination power of psychic life. 
’ 
e 
No doubt it is a great nuisance that mankind is not uniform 
but compounded of individuals whose psychic structure 
dae them over a span of at least ten thousand years. Hence __ 
ere is absolutely no truth that does not spell salvation to one 
rson and damnation to another. All universalisms get stuck in 
is terrible dilemma. 
q 
# 
