Layout. Steamboat drawing dragons. George working on pp. 422- 
423. 
Layout (continued) 
At first we laid out our pages just the way a newspaper does (the 
Menlo-Atherton Recorder showed us how). We used flats (blank, 
line 2-page-sized pieces of paper provided by the printer) on 
light tables {made out of plywood, fluorescent lights, white plastic, and 
glass). The flats were placed line-side-down on the light tables, 
so the lines showed through and you could align items on them 
but they wouldn‘t show on the final layout. Also like the newspaper 
we used beeswax (also provided by the printer) to stick the items 
down with— 
it was kept liquid in an old electric frying pan. 
The 
advantage of wax is that it’s fairly easy to lift an.item and restick 
it. After everything was in place on a page we took a little wooden 
roller and ran it firmly over all the copy so it would stay attached 
to the flat. 
We made the flats so that they could be used directly by the printer 
for making the negatives and the plates. Thus in the first CATALOG 
p. 1 and p. 64 were on the same flat, p. 2 and p. 63, p. 3 and p. 62, 
and so forth, with the even page always on the Jeft. On this last 
production we found it more convenient to layout the pages 
‘individually in page sequence, and tape together the flats for each 
signature when we were done (p. 65 and p. 128, p. 66 and p. 127, 
etc.). 
We went along using light tables and wax until Gordon Ashby and 
Doyle Phillips revolutionized our procedure with the July 70 
Supplement. 
They showed us that working on a portable drafting 
table, with a T-square and rubber cement for adhesive was really 
much easier and gave us better layout. We still had lines on the 
flats but they were on the top surface in light blue (invisible to the 
camera). 
. 
So now our tools are: 
Portable drafting table and engineers lamp 
T-square and triangle (for horizontal and vertical lines 
and alignment) 
Exacto knives and very good scissors {for-cutting copy) 
Rapidograph pens (for clean ink lines) 
Rubber cement and dispenser (jar with brush), and solvent 
(in a squirt can dispenser, for lifting already glued 
copy}, and warts (sticky squares for cleaning up 
stray rubber cement on the page). 
Drafting tape (for holding paper in place) 
Thin white tape (for holding down bits of copy where 
rubber cement won't do it and for covering up 
mistakes) 
Blue pencil (for marking on the page) 
Template (for ruling curved lines such as around 
Divine Right) 
Letraset (burnish-down characters for page numbers and 
headings} and wooden stylus (for burnishing) 
Tuffilm (to spray on finished copy for protection) 
We still use the light tables for correcting copy. When the typist 
makes a mistake she simply types the line again correctly, makes 
a blue pencil mark, and goes on, 
Then on the light table it’s easy 
to cut the copy,-align the mistaken line under the previous line, 
stick the pieces together with white tape, and go on to the next 
mistake, 
We used to custom-make each page with various column widths, 
which only led to extra trouble for us and the reader. Now we 
type to a basic 20-pica three-column page and everything’s much 
simpler. 
—SB 
Polaroid MP-3 and Fred Richardson during 
January production in the desert. 
In the 
foreground are-cans of Omit, pressurized air for 
cleaning glass surfaces. 
Books 
R 
We get letters all the time asking how to start a Truck Store and 
Diana’s quick hard summary tells you the basics. I'll try to tell you 
how to stock that store with books. There are a few how-to books 
on the subject of bookstores. The one | read is How to Runa 
Paperback Bookstore (R. R. Bowker 1962, $5.00). It tells you 
enough to figure out hardbacks too and if you know nothing about 
bookstores, get it. Even if you do know something you might enjoy 
it and it can help answer some questions, like, how come we're not 
making any money. This book helps to explain the minimum initial 
- investment of $10,000 though they suggest $15,000. That sum may 
sound staggering and | do know people who've done it on $1,000 
but they started 5 years ago and are still in the red. 
It’s really 
not worth the headaches. Running a store that serves the community 
and turns people on to new ideas is a far out venture but don’ t 
forget that you’ve got to make a profit (‘we're not in business for 
our health you know... ."’). 
Tools 
of the Trade 
Join the American Booksellers Association and with your member- 
ship ($25 the first year) you'll get their Book Buyers Handbook. 
This gives addresses for all the major publishers and their discount 
schedules returns policies and other good stuff. 
It’s essential. When 
« 
you join, tell them you want their MANUAL ON BOOKSELLING 
and other free stuff (you do have to remind them). 
American Booksellers Association 
800 Second Avenue 
; 
New York, N. Y. 10017 
; 
BOOK. BUYER'S 
HANDBOOK 
wert 
Bowker publishes the other essentials. Books in Print ($25.50 
yearly) is two volumes, authors index and titles index of current 
books in print with price and publisher. Their appendix of 
publishers’ addresses is more complete than the ABA Handbook, 
Paperback Books in Print ($29.95 yearly) has three cumulative 
= 
issues in November, March and July which list current paperbacks 
by subject as well as alphabetically by title and author. There are 
also monthly editions to fill in between with reviews taken off the 
book’s cover. Publishers Weekly is a great magazine and if you 
don’t enjoy it you are probably in the wrong business. A subscription — 
is $18.50 and aside from giving you general news of the trade, its 
spring, summer and fall editions are devoted to notices by pub- 
lishers of the books they plan to release that season. The weekly 
reviews of forthcoming books are honest and entertaining. The 
magazine keeps you ahead of your customers. Forthcoming Books 
in Print ($19.95) supplements Books in Print following the same 
author and title format and is issued 6 times a year. Subject Guide 
to Books in Print ($23.50 a year) is in two volumes and is an index 
by subject. For an additional $8.95 you can get Subject Guide to 
Forthcoming Books in Print which is bi-monthly. Publishers Trade 
List Manual is a 6 volume collection of over 2,000 publishers trade 
lists which is pretty impressive but its main use is to check discount 
categories for making single copy orders and if you are not doing 
much of that or even if you are, you can still get by using some 
body’ s last year edition checking bree changes in BIP. The cost 
is $17.50 a year. 
There are many more but these are the ones we have and I’ve listed 
them pretty much in the order of frequency of use. When deciding 
which to get, consider what services you want to provide to your 
customers. 
Polaroid 
MP-3 Camera 
The production. photography that | do for W.E.C. includes all 
halftones up to 3%" x 4%” and line shots up to page size. 
Our halftones are done with a screen that has 85 dots to the 
inch. Really fine printing on slick paper sometimes uses screens 
with more than 200 dots/inch. Consult with your printer to 
find out what he can handle with his camera/on what kind of 
paper/in your production. 
We make all our 3%" x 4%" or smaller halftones and let the 
printer make the bigger ones. We do them as veloxes (positive 
prints on paper) and paste them down directly on the flats. On 
large photos that we want especially nice we have the printer do 
in negative and strip into the negative he does of the flat. 
Why not have the printer do all of the halftones? You can. 
It 
won't cost anymore. 
In fact, it may cost less. We like to do our 
own, though, because it gives us control, reduces the problems of 
getting all the stuff to the printers in good shape, losing material, 
and getting the wrong picture in the right spot. We also get to 
see exactly what the page will look like. 
The Polaroid MP-3 with lights, film back, halftone kit, and 5” 
lens costs about $800. Film, depending on type, costs $13.50 
to $15.50 per box of twenty sheets (60¢—75¢ per picture). After 
working with the MP-3 for 1% years, | average 2%-3 shots per 
good halftone, 1% shots per good line shot. That is working with 
varied copy. 
If | have a series of originals to be done to the same 
size, | can arrange them by contrast and average maybe 1% shots 
per good halftone. 
That assumes that | have good film. 
| had no trouble with the 
| 
Polaroid film the first year | used it, but during the last six months, 
quality has been extremely variable. 
Stat King 
We bought a Visual Graphics Stat King camera for doing work up 
to 11" x 17". 
It is a fancy photostat machine that will enlarge/ 
reduce 200%—50%. Cost $4000. 
It can have prints out and dry 
in 5 minutes or so. We wanted to do halftones with a contact 
screen but it didn’t work well enough (the camera lacks a vacuum 
back) so we use it only for line work. Fairly cheap to use, but 
we don’t use it enough to be worth anywhere near $4000. 
—Fred Richardson 
‘this. 
.it and won't back order (that is, record your order and send it wh 
» 
the books come in). Their maximum discount is eny wie from — 
Publishers disadvantages: 
Unless you iqivell 
in the East you ‘ee to 
R.R. Bowker 
1180 Avenue of the Awwriest: 
New York, N.Y. 10036. 
~ 
Kinds of Books 
Books are not just books: There are obviously hardback (cates 
Paperbacks. There are also text, trade, and mass editions. = 
Text editions are not simply the books you read i 
in, school but — 
rather are designated by publishers as texts and sold to bookstor 
; 
ona very short discount, generally 20%. This small discount is th 
reason most stores don’t carry text books. The Truck Store is an 
exception. Trade books are the largest category of books and the 
like texts can be either hardbound or paper. Book stores get the — 
most generous discount on these, generally 40% or better. Trade 
paperbacks are termed quality paperbacks. Mass books are weird — 
and if you buy them from a distributor, which you are almost — 
“= 
forced to do, you get only 30% discount. 
If you can buy direct fro 7 
the publisher you get 40%, but more about this confusion later. — 
Where do Books Come From 
You buy both direct from the publisher and from wholesalers (knows 
also as jobbers or distributors). The best way to find out about 
— 
wholesalers in your area is to ask around at friendly stores. You 
find that most wholesalers deal mainly one kind of book, that is, 
— 
trade hardbacks, trade paperbacks (call these guys quality jobbers) 
mass paperbacks (the last are a special case and will be dealt with . 
in their own section). You'll need accounts with all 3 kinds. At the 
Truck Store we do most of our business with publishers and use — 
wholesalers only to fill in. There are advantages and clsacver 
Wholesaler advantages: They are reqonal and thus can give faster _ 
service and shorter distance makes for less postage and freight costs 
Since they are smaller operations they are easier to deal with and 
— 
adjustments in billing or invoice errors are handled more quickly an 
returns are made with no hassle. Also there is iess paper work as 
you are dealing with one firm rather than 20, so there’s just oné 
invoice and one bill. This saves an incredible amount of time. 
Disadvantages: They either don’t stock what you want or are ° 
36-40%. You must pay 30: days from date of invoice. 
Publishers advantages: They do have the books you want and the 
will back order. They may say you must pay in 30 days but allow 
60 to 90 without bitching. They will send you.current price lists, 
order forins, catalogs, advance notices of new books, and a salesma 
once in a while. Salesmen lay raps on you about why you should: 
25 copies of everything i 
in their line but also they help you stay 0 
top of it, assist in getting returns permissions, and some times they’ 
give you free books or take you out to lunch: Publisher’s most 
important advantage is their better discounts. They generally hav 
a minimum order of 5 books to get a 40% discount but from ther 
discounts go up. This schedule varies with every publisher andi 
fully detailed in the ABA handbook. WORKING WITH THESE 
DISCOUNTS 1S WHERE YOUMAKE YOUR MONEY!II 
wait at least 3 weeks for delivery and pay that long distance posta 
or freight, though a few publishers have regional centers. 
(If you 
are in a rush say so in red letters and ask for “special handling” 
rate which is not too much more expensive and can speed deli 
by as much as 10 days.) Their bills are often computerized and 
account means more invoices and more bills to pay and it is a lot i) 
paperwork. Getting returns permissions is a drag and the delay 
credit on returns is slow but we feel that the better discounts we ~ 
get from publishers offsets these. One other disadvantage is that — 
there is the minimum order to earn their discount but a way to 
get around it is the single copy order plan (SCOP). Essentially yo 
send i 
ina check with your order on a special‘order form and the — 
the ABA Handbook for details.) We use this for the few super — 
expensive books we stock rather than invest money in keeping the 
around the store collecting dust. 
= 
continued) 
JIFFY PADDED BOOK BAGS — 
INSERT 
i 
STAPLE 
BOOK 
OR 
: 
Available to you from 
8 ‘ 
s;, ee 
200 distributors from 
wea 
Coast to Coast 
2 
WRITE FOR FREE-SAMPLES — 
_ JIFFY MFG. CO. 
HILLSIDE. N.J. 07205 ‘ 
