* (The following letter was sent air mail special delivery from New 
"Dear Dr. Hippocrates 
Long-hairs are doing new stuff with their bodies and nervous 
systems that occasionally needs medical attention or 
perspective. Communication was blocked, however, by the 
social understanding that they aren’t supposed to be doing 
that stuff. Dr. Schoenfeld and his medical advice column in 
the underground press cut through the blockage, and 
here came a spout of information as weird as it was useful. 
Good answers made the questions good. 
=SB 
Dear Doctor Hippocrates 
Eugene Schoenfeld, M.D. 
1968; 112pp. 
$.95 
postpaid 
from: 
Grove Press, Inc. 
214 Mercer St. 
New York, N.Y. 10012 3013 
DEAR DOCTOR 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
WPPOCRATES 
SRR 
| 
BY EUGENE SCHOENFELD, M.D. 
ERERSECR TGS 
ADVICE YOUR FAMILY 
DOCTOR NEVER GAVE YOU 
For cosmetic reasons and sex appeal, i have been interested for 
some time in removing my pubic hair. 
-I initially tried scissors 
which left stubbles;.a safety razor leaves red marks and bumps 
which are both unattractive and painful. An electric razor ts 
better but still unsatisfactory. I called an electrologist who 
removes hair, but she found my request most peculiar and 
refused to undertake the work. 
Can you suggest a solution to the problem? Is there any reason 
to believe removal of pubic hair would be either unhealthful or 
dangerous? 
Most Middle Eastern women routinely shave their pubic hair 
but | leave to you and your chafed friends the question of 
whether this practice wil! enhance your sex appeal. 
It does 
not seem medically dangerous. 
Cautious use of a depilatory or one of the newer electric razors 
would seem the best solution to your problem. 
| would advise 
against permanent removal since you might someday move to 
a colder climate. 
Note: Judging from the volume of mail received in response to 
the preceding question and answer, shaving pubic hair is 
definitety not confined to the Middle East. Excerpts from three 
Jetters follow: 
A leading manufacturer of safety razors (Gillette) recently 
placed on the market something called a “Scairdy Kit.” The ad 
dealt with the problem of very brief bathing suits but the letter 
from the girl who shaves made me wonder. Perhaps she needs 
~ 
instructions in the use of lather or brushless cream. 
She will have far better results if she uses an electric hair clipper 
such as the ones barbers use. The OOOO blade is the finest: 
one and will not leave unsightly stubble, irritate the skin or 
cause abrasions. 
; 
For shaving, use alcohol—it eliminates abrasions and little bumps. 
This was told me by a psychiatrist. 
I have seen countless old films in which Oriental bartenders slip 
their unsuspecting customers.a “Mickey Finn’’ which invariably 
flashes them out of their skulls in about thirty seconds. 
Is there any such drug that, taken orally, would put a person out 
in less than a minute? 
Two types of ‘‘Mickey Finns’’ were allegedly used. One was chloral 
hydrate, a sleeping preparation, which induces sleep after twenty 
or thirty minutes. Like barbiturates, it is especially powerful when 
given with alcohol. 
Another “‘Mickey”’ favored by bartenders. was a strong laxative, 
a favorite method for getting rid of undesired customers. But 
only in Hollywood do “‘Mickeys’’ work within one minute. 
Could you please tell me if it is possible to become pregnant 
without coitus if ejaculation occurred outside the vagina? 
Pregnancy without coitus is possible if semen is at or near the 
entrance to the vagina. This may occur even if a girl is wearing 
underpants, according to some now well-informed female 
sources. 
: 
Perhaps this helps to explain the phenomenon of virgin births. 
But it still seems a poor way to become pregnant. 
Are there any ways to get birth-control pills besides having to go to 
a doctor to get the prescription? 
No and for-good reason. The doctor will take a medical history 
and do a gynecologic examination, including-a Pap or cancer 
smear, to determine that there are no conditions which would 
be caused or made worse by taking birth-control pills. You should 
see your own physician or you may be eligible for care at your 
local health department or Planned Parenthood office. Doctor's 
aren't so bad. Some of my best friends... 
Orleans.) 
Dear Dr. Schoenfeld: 
Is it true that smoking incense can make you high? (I am mainly 
referring to the Joss incense sticks from india.) 
Love, 
Paul ——— 
Dear Paul: 
; 
| have not been aware that smoking incense could make one 
high. This effect would have been discovered thousands of years 
ago if it were true. 
Are you sure it’s incense you're smoking? 
Sincerely, 
Eugene Schoenfeld, M.D. 
Complete Home Medical Encyclopedia 
Just about everything that could happen to your body is 
discussed in this fat paperback. Acne, actinomycosis, 
anthrax and arthritis to. sexual intercourse, thromboangjitis 
obliterans, and worms. 
Dr. Hyman combines specific treat- 
ments with clear explanations of bodily functions and how 
they get interrupted. | learned more here about acne than 
| have from any of the dermatologists I’ve seen. 
There are 
occasional diagrams in the alphabetically arranged text, 
which is written with the sensibility and humor you’d want 
from your family doctor. 
The traditional general prac- 
titioner is said to be growing scarce in the American scene, 
but many of the questions you might want to ask him are 
answered here. 
—Hal Hershey 
The Complete Home Medical Encyclopedia 
Harold T. 
Hyman, M.D. 
1963, 1965; 832 pp. 
$2.25 plus $.15 postage 
from: 
Avon Books 
250 W. 55th Street 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
DR. HAROLD T. 
HYMAN 
THE 
COMPLETE 
HOME MEDICAL 
ENCYCLOPEDIA 
¥ 
The control of acne requires a joint effort on the part of youngster 
and parent, usually the mother. 
After a review of the nature of the disturbance, as outlined above, 
the parent will do well to reassure the child that no blame or shame 
is attached to the condition. 
The-child should be told that acne is not due to uncleanliness or 
bad habits of any description; that it is not a disease but more in 
the nature of a normal feature in the process of growing up. Here 
is a suggested outline for the home-treatment plan. 
Each morning apply a lather of pure soap or a sudsing detergent 
(Dove) to face, shoulders and chest. Scrub vigorously with a rough 
towel. Give special attention to skin folds and creases. 
Each afternoon or early evening, on return-from school or work, 
repeat the scrubbing. Then, expose affected areas to ultraviolet 
rays, using direct sunlight, an inexpensive sun lamp (Sperti) or a_ 
bulb (RS mode!) that has the recommendation of the American 
Medical Association or a testing institute of a reliable magazine. 
Regulate the distance from the source and the time of exposure 
so that the skin is tanned but not burned, so that it flakes but 
does not peel. 
: 
At bedtime, apply hot towels to affected skin areas until flushed. 
Then, with scrubbed hands and blunt fingernails, gently but firmly 
extract secretions fram whiteheads and blackheads and from pores 
in skin folds, especially those on the nostrils and between nose 
and cheek. 
Twice weekly, shampoo with hand soap or sudsing detergent 
(Drene). Scrub scalp vigorously with a tough hand brush before 
drying. 
Avoid application of medicated or cosmetic ointments and creams 
that may tend to plug the channels you're trying to keep open. 
Fiz. 14 Jackknife positioning for relief of acute back strain. 
Crabs 
I don’t know if you’ve done this one before, but for your edification, 
here ts a quote from the sheet of A-200 Pyrinate Liquid 
Advantages of A-200 Pyrinate 
1. A-200 Pyrinate is a liquid. . .no messy salve. 
2. It kills on contact crab, head and body lice and their eggs (nits), 
also chiggers (red bugs), and dog fleas. 
3. Leaves no tell-tale odor. 
4. Does not permanently stain clothing. Is easily removed with 
water— without soap. 
- 
5. Destroys eggs or nits, as well as parasites themselves. 
6. Its advantages over blue ointment and larkspur lotion are 
obvious. 
: 
It cost $1 in a very expensive drug store. 
IT WORKS! As anyone who has sat up half the night every night 
crouched over a dying flashlight pursuing the pernicious phthirus 
pubis knows, that’s the only comment that counts. 
Jim Huston 
Cleveland, Ohio 
Sense of temperature 
and pain 
Motor tracts 
Fig. 26 
Spinal 
cord 
(cross 
section) 
Treatment of Acute Alcoholism 
The best treatment of acute alcoholism is prevention. Not by abso- 
lute prohibition, but by judicious indulgence in the pleasures and 
uses of alcoholic beverages. Here are some hints to the accomplish- 
ment of this end: 
Never take more than the equivalent of two ounces of hard liquor 
or of two bottles of beer at any one session. This will assure you 
of a safe level of blood alcohol (up to 0.05%). 
If you exceed the safe limit, don’t drive your car. 
If your escort exceeds the safe limit, take away car keys. 
If neither you nor any other member of your party is in condition 
to drive the car, get some sober person to drive for you. 
(See 
ACCIDENTS.) 
Adopt a protective attitude toward the person who, on occasion, 
takes one(or a few) too many. 
If docile and amiable, get him (or 
her) to bed to sleep it off. 
If possible, resist efforts of well-meaning 
amateurs who strive to sober the patient up with large quantities 
of coffee and/or a cold shower. 
If you are unable to contol an alcoholic, send for a physician who 
may succeed by giving a large dose of paraldehyde or an injection 
of apomorphine (vomiting within ten minutes) or a tranquilizer 
(Librium, Thorazine, etc.). 
On awakening after a binge, take warmed fluids (tea; consommé; 
hot water; citrus fruit juice; clam broth; etc.). Do not add to 
dehydration by resorting to the conventional saline purge— with 
or without precedent calomel. 
For relief of the hangover headache, don’t take the “‘hair of the 
dog that bit.” Instead, take a dose of aspirin and wash down with 
250 cc. heated, charged water. 
As soon as stomach is tolerant, eat 
small quantities of warmed soft foods at frequent intervals. 
Choose poached egg; milk toast; warm milk and soda crackers; 
puree of soup; mashed potato; ete. Despite craving for cold, carbo- 
nated fluids, avoid them, since they are very apt to cause ab- 
dominal cramps and distention. 
For relief of the “‘morning-after-the-night-before depression’, 
take a euphoriant such as 5 mg. dextro-amphetamine (Dexedrine), 
5 mg. amphetamine (Benzedrine), 25 mg. phenmetrazine (Preludin), 
10 mg. methylphenidate (Ritalin), or 2.5 mg. pipradol (Meratran). 
THE LORD WORKS IN MYSTERIOUS WAYS 
D.R. got up and had breakfast with the family and then lay 
down on the couch to read the paper while Marcella and Doyle 
got the kids ready to go to Sunday School. 
It had been clear the 
evening before that D.R. wasn’t going to feel like going to church 
with them, and so they left him alone to read and relax while 
they got dressed and ready. When the family left, the house fell 
into such profound silence D.R. dozed off almost immediately. 
But then around eleven the phone rang and woke him up and when 
it turned out to be God Himself calling to summons D.R. to 
Kentucky, alertness spread through him like a rush. 
God was calling in the guise of Mrs. Godsey, Uncle Emmit’s 
neighbor down in Finley County; but Divine Right had no doubt 
who it really was. Her high, nasal voice was certainly a strange 
one for such a weighty summons, but the Call was clear and un- 
mistakeable: Emmit was dying at the homeplace and he must go 
to be with him. 
Mrs.Godsey told D.R. she hated to worry him, that it might 
be a false alarm, but she didn’t think so. She said the Lord 
worked in mysterious ways, that it wasn’t given people to under- 
stand: everything He does, that Emmit might perk up tomorrow 
and outlive them all, but according to her son Leonard who had 
been to see Emmit twice the day before, he was twice as bad off 
as he had been and that she just had to call Marcella and try to 
do something about getting somebody to go up and stay with him, 
or else get an ambulance to haul him out of that holler to the 
hospital. D.R. told Mrs. Godsey he couldn’t get there before late 
that night, but that he would come on if she thought that was 
what ought to be done. Mrs. Godsey said what honey? Some 
fool’s eavesdropping and cut out what you said. D.R. repeated 
what he’d said and Mrs. Godsey said she thought it would be 
wonderful if he would come, that it would certainly be a Christian 
act and a wonderful blessing for Emmit. Then she told D.R. that 
the last time she had seen him he was the least little old thing that 
ever was. She said you must be a great old big boy by now. 
D.R. 
said he was twenty-one. Mrs. Godsey said my, my, time flies 
don't it? She said she knew his parents, God rest ‘em, would of 
been proud he had turned out to be such a fine young man, and 
that she was looking forward to seeing him again. Then she said 
well honey, this is costing money. 
D.R. told her to tell Leonard 
to go tell Emmit he was on his way, that he would be there late 
that night or tomorrow at the very latest, and Mrs. Godsey said 
bless your heart child, and hung up. 
Doctoring 
Community 
