Tantra Asana 
All that have seen a copy of Tantra Art and its incandescent 
images have been tantalized by a year of rumors that a second 
Tantra book was coming. Here it is, more riches, tools, from 
what must be an inexhaustible source. 
—SB 
Tantra Asana 
- 
Ajit Mookerjee 
1971; 164 pp. 
$37.50 
postpaid 
from: 
Random House 
Westminster, Md. 21157 
TANTRA ASANA 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
= 
} 
Some copies of Tantra Art are sti// available for $35 from 
Shambala. 
Rati is Kama’s sakti representing kinetic energy. Kama is the god of 
love about whom it is said in the Vedas: 
‘Desire first arose at the 
dawn of creation.” 
In the Atharva-Veda, Kama is known as the 
creation. They remain in a union of oneness, enjoying that supreme 
bliss which is the highest non-duality. 
“The woman 
you love, 
you must not possess”’ 
y 
»y 
| Mysticism — See 
Epilog, 
page 745 “Ecstasy: 
A Way 
of Knowing” 
ry’ 
See Eptog, pas 
oy 
% 
2 
... Where the philosopher guesses and argues, the mystic lives and 
looks; and speaks, consequently, the disconcerting language of 
| 
i 
} i 
' 
} 
| 
I 
OUT OF PRINT 
! 
"4 New York, N.Y. 10003 
i 
: 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
materialistic philosophy. 
| 
| The'mystical event is to occupy ONE. Every time it 
happens 
it is a life enhancer and a history enhancer. Evelyn 
Underhill wrote this classic to gather. and map the full range 
of Western mystical experience — Greek, Catholic, 
i 
Protestant — and yours if you care to follow the steps. Each 
| of those ONEs is unique. Each is the same. 
That seems pat, 
but this book approximately proves it. 
(iat 
—SB 
: 
Gey 
[Suggested by James Watkins] 
Mysticism 
Evelyn Underhill 
1911; 519 pp. 
E. P. Dutton & Company, Inc. 
201 Park Avenue South 
: .. Recéjac has well said that “from the moment in which man is 
| no longer content to devise things useful for his existence under the 
~ exclusive action of the will-to-live, the principle of (physical) 
f 
N 
3 
evolution has been violated.’’ Nothing can be more-certain than 
that man.is not so content. 
He has been called by utilitarian 
philosophers a tool-making animal — the highest praise they knew 
how to bestow. More surely he is a vision-making animal; a 
creature of perverse and unpractical ideals, dominated by dreams 
no less than by appetites — dreams which can only be justified upon 
the theory that he moves towards some other goal than that of 
3 physical perfection or intellectual supremacy, is controlled by some 
4 higher and more vital reality than that of the determinists. We are 
_ driven 
to the conclusion,.that if the theory of evolution is to include 
or explain the facts of artistic and Spiritual experience — and it 
cannot be accepted by any serious thinker if these great tracts of 
consciousness remain outside its range — it must be rebuilt on a 
mental rather than a physical basis. 
et 
> 
e 
Pain, then, which plunges like a 
sword through creation, leaving on 
‘the one side cringing and degraded animals and on the other side’ 
_ heroes and saints, is one of those facts of universal experience 
which are peculiarly intractable from the point of view of a merely 
first-hand experience, not the neat dialectic of the schools. Hence 
whilst the Absolute of the metaphysicians remains a diagram — 
impersonal and unattainable — the Absolute of the mystics is 
lovable, attainable, alive. 
: 
e 
-... “All mystics,” said Saint-Martin, “speak the same language, for 
they come from the same country.” The deep undying life within 
us came from that country too: and it recognizes the accents of 
home, though it cannot always understand what they would say. 
... there are two distinct sides to the full mystical experience. 
(A) The vision or consciousness of Absolute Perfection. 
(B) The 
inward transmutation to which that Vision compels the mystic, in 
order that he may be to some extent worthy of that which he has 
beheld: may take his place within the order of Reality. 
He has seen 
the Perfect; he wants to be perfect too. 
... 
*... Thou, my God, who art Love,” says Nicolas of Cusa, ‘‘art 
Love that loveth, and Love that is loveable, and Love that is the 
bond between these twain.” 
.. 
. 
... Here the common opinion that a pious effeminacy, a diluted 
and amiable spirituality, is the proper raw material of the mystic 
life, is emphatically contradicted. 
It is not by the education of the 
lamb, but by the hunting and taming of the wild intractable lion, 
instinct with vitality, full of ardour and courage, exhibiting heroic 
qualities on the sensual plane, that the Great Work is achieved. The 
lives of the saints enforce the same law. 
... 10 go up alone into the mountain and come back as an 
ambassador to the world, has ever been the method of humanity's 
best friends. 
... 
... That law of the inner life, which sounds so fantastic and yet is 
so bitterly true — ‘‘No progress without pain’ — asserts itself. 
It 
declares that birth pangs must be endured in the spiritual as well as 
in the material world: that adequate training must always hurt the 
athlete. Hence the mystics’ quest of the Absolute drives them to an 
eager and heroic union with the reality of suffering, as well as with 
the reality of joy. 
° 
...1n that remaking of his consciousness which follows upon the 
“mystical awakening,’’ the deep and primal life which he shares 
with all creation has been roused from its sleep. Hence the barrier 
between human and non-human life, which makes man a stranger on 
earth as well as in heaven, is done away. 
Life now whispers to his 
life: all things are his intimates, and respond to his fraternal 
sympathy. 
© 
... “When the soul is plunged in the fire of divine love,” he says, 
“Nike iron, it first loses its blackness, and then growing to white 
heat, it becomes like unto the fire itself. And lastly, it grows liquid, 
and losing its nature is transmuted into an utterly different quality 
of being.” ‘’As the difference between iron that is cold and iron 
that is hot,’’ he says again, “‘so is the difference between-soul and 
soul: between the tepid soul and the soul made incandescent by 
divine love.” 
... 
agtior Sr 
SOLE Beta 
— 
It’s a business, actually. 
| mean, just this very second | flashed 
that this enterprise of mine is actually a business. 
It’s called The 
Magic Rabbit. The rabbits are my employees. They shit all week, 
around the clock, and | pay them with food. Out purpose is soil 
redemption. Salvation! 
Healing, by miracles, signs and wonders. 
The theme song of our commercials is The Old Rugged Barn. 
On a hill far away, 
Stood an old rugged barn, 
The emblem of effort and pride. 
Far out! 
Come be my partner, Flash. Go find Estelle and bring her with 
~ you, and join the Magic Rabbit, Incorporated, and we'll get into 
soil salvation. 
First we'll save our own; we'll breed ten thousand 
rabbits and twenty million worms, and make this dead old hillside 
bloom. Then if other people feel like they’ve got a troubled soil, 
why let them call upon us, and we'll respond, with miracles, signs 
and wonders. 
Faith, brother! 
Faith and rabbit shit, that’s the theme! 
On a hill far away, 
Stood an old rugged barn, 
The emblem of effort and pride. 
How | love that old barn, 
So despised by the world, 
For the weirdness that happens inside. 
You've got forty-eight hours to reply to this business proposal, 
Flash. Refuse it at the peril of your soil. 
Your associate, 
D.R. 
Mysticism 
Learning 
