\ 
A Short Political Editorial 
All 
to 
the 
persons. 
power 
to the p 
_sB 
a 
a 
a 
a 
@ 
a 
a 
Rules for Radicals 
Toward a science of revolution. Much radical literature is 
_ aimed at fighting. 
This book is aimed, by an expert, at 
winning. 
Rules for Radicals 
Saul D. Alinsky 
1971; 196 pp. 
$1 95 postpaid 
from: 
Vintage Books Inc. 
Westminster, Md. 21157 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
| Believe that man is about to learn that the most practical life 
is the moral life and that the moral life is the only road to survival. 
He is beginning to learn that he will either share part of his material 
wealth or lose all of it; that he will respect and learn to live with 
other political ideologies if he wants civilization to go on. This is 
the kind of argument that man's actual experience equips him to 
understand and accept. This is the low road to morality. There is 
no other. 
Power is the right word just as self-interest, compromise, and the 
other simple political words are, for they were conceived in and 
have become part of politics from the beginning of time. To pander 
to those who have_no stomach for straight language, and insist upon 
bland, non-controversial sauces, is a waste of time. 
Tactics means doing what you can with what you have. Tactics 
are those consciously deliberate acts by which human beings live 
with each other and deal with the world around them. 
In the world 
of give and take, tactics is the art of how to take and how to give. 
Here our concern is with the tactic of taking; how the Have-Nots 
can take power away from the Haves. 
For an elementary illustration of tactics, take parts of your face as 
the point of reference; your eyes, your ears, and your nose. 
First 
“the eyes; if you have organized a vast, mass-based people’s organi- 
zation, you can parade it visibly before the enemy and openly show 
your power. Second the ears; if your organization is small in 
numbers, then do what Gideon did: 
conceal the members in the 
dark but raise a din and clamar that will make the listener believe 
that your organization numbers many more than it does. Third, 
the nose; if your organization is too tiny even for noise; stink up 
the place. 
Always remember the first rule of power tactics: Power is not only 
what you have but what the enemy thinks you have. 
The second rule is: Never go outside the experience of your people. 
When an action or tactic is outside the experience of the people, 
the result is confusion, fear, and retreat. 
It also means a collapse 
of communication, as we have noted. 
The third rule is: Wherever possible go outside of the experience 
of the enemy. 
Here you want to cause confusion, fear, and retreat.... 
The fourth rule is: Make the enemy live up to their own book of 
rules. 
You can kill them with this, for they can no more obey their 
own rules than the Christian church can live up to Christianity. 
the fourth rule carries within it the fifth rule: Ridicule is man’s 
most potent weapon. 
\t is almost impossible to counterattack 
ridicule. 
Also it infuriates the opposition, who then react to your 
advantage. 
The sixth rule is: A good tactic is one that your people enjoy. 
If yOur people are not having a ball doing it, there is something 
very wrong with the tactic. 
The seventh rule: A tactic that drags on too lony becomes a drag.... 
The eighth rule: 
Keep the pressure on, with different tactics and 
actions, and utilize all events of the period for your purpose. 
The ninth rule: 
itself. 
The threat is usually more terrifying than the thing 
The tenth rule: 
The major premise for tactics is the development of 
operations that will maintain a constant pressure upon the opposition. 
The eleventh rule is: /f you push a negative hard and deep enough 
it will break through into its counterside; this is based on the prin- 
ciple that every positive has its negative. We have already seen the 
conversion of the negative into the positive, in Mahatma Gandhi's 
development of the tactic of passive resistance... 
The twelfth rule: 
The price of a successful attack is a constructive 
alternative. 
You cannot risk being trapped by the enemy in his 
sudden agreement with your demand and saying ‘’You’re right— 
we don’t know what to do about this issue. Now you tell us.”’ 
The thirteenth rule: Pick the target, freeze it, personalize it, and 
polarize it. 
What do | want? 
| want a spring...well, | want it to run the 
dial, the outside dial, and of course the real problem is how to 
get a band out of this motion. 
Let me look at the motion 
again. How do you get inside that spring? If |...if there were 
(a) 
an enormous spring...a spring as big as a house, and | hold 
onto it and it goes in and out. in and out. 
What happens to me? Well, let’s see, I can put a little drop 
of ink on the thing. Now I wind it in and out. Look. 
If. I 
get a spring big enough, as the spring tightens . 
. 
. the blob 
of ink will move in... and out as the spring relaxes... 
. 
“Funny ... now I have the feeling that this thing is on its 
own, completely outside me... 
. that the whole idea is no 
longer . 
. 
. no longer anything to do with being mine, my idea 
- +. it’s just like flying now because if I put a spot on the 
spring and tighten it up, it performs an are which is exactly” 
the band I’m looking for [cf. Fig 4 (a), (b), (©)]. It’s amazing, 
and this is no-longer I... it’s as though it was taken away 
from me... 
. This must be what people mean when they say 
you start writing a play and the people you’ve put in the play” 
(¢) 
just go on by themselves.” 
ao 
Organization 
Community 
Vocations for Social Change 
= 
VSC. has a new magazine, Workforce, 
and a new direction— 
- 
work liberation. They put out a good information-sharing 
magazine, and they’re a resource directory for movement 
groups. How to work at changing the world. 
—Hal Hershey 
Workforce 
$.50 copy 
Subscriptions are a donation 
of $5.00/6 months 
from: 
Vocations for Social Change 
4911 Telegraph Ave. 
Oakland, CA 94609 
Economic Alternatives 
Co-op League, 1828 L Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20036, 
publishes several pamphlets of how-to-do-it information for 
starting or managing a cooperative. Write for free literature lists. 
(Phone: 202 628-9000) 
Cooperative Services, Inc., 7404 Woodward, Detroit, MI 48202, is a 
big co-op service organization. ERY. can help get co-ops off the 
ground. 
DE Vcorp, Don Newey, 26 Exeter St., Boston, MA 02116, provides a 
continuous buying club service to help consumers find better quality 
food and encourage the producers to provide better quality food. 
Anyone interested in either joining a buying club in your city or 
helping to organize one should contact them. 
Foundation for Cooperative Housing, 1012 14th St., NW, 
_ 
Washington, D.C. 20005. Free publications, English and Spanish. 
North American Student Cooperative Organization, 1500 Gilbert Ct., 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48105, is a clearinghouse on cooperatives in 
the U.S. They have information on all forms of cooperatives: 
credit 
unions, groceries, laundries, eating clubs, etc., “‘as long as they are 
cooperative’. 
In addition to their newsletter they publish a directory 
of cooperatives entitled Crashing in North America. 
Synectics 
An outline of a method for training creative groups and 
maintaining their creativity in the business environment. 
This book provides both the theoretical and experimental 
background and the practical details of how to put the 
method to work. Although written for use by business 
executives, the applications to other situations are obvious 
and important. Anyone attempting to create a commune or 
other group of people whowill work together creatively 
will find many useful ideas here. The problem of interface 
between the creative group and the workaday world is 
also treated in some detail. Extensive examples of the 
method in operation, and a lengthy bibliograph yon 
creativity. 
[Reviewed by Larry McCombs. 
Suggested by Jane Burton.] 
Synectics 
illiam J. J. Gordon 
1961; 180 pp. 
$ 1.25 postpaid 
from. 
Collier Books 
866 Third Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10022 
the Development of Dreative Capacity 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
William J. J.Gordon 
The Organizer’s Manual 
(aa SAS. 
ie 
teal 
this book earns its buck and a quarter in its sixty-page 
bibliography. 
the other three hundred pages contain infor- 
mation of use to potential and polite revolutionaries, people 
who know they should be doing something, but don’t feel 
right about generating unstructured change. structures and 
groups, rules and techniques, hints and helps for the gentle 
displacement of dinosaurs and pigs. like telling you to get 
medical attention for a bullet wound, put eggs water and 
baking soda on your face before the teargas attack, notify 
the media twentyfour hours ahead of time, watch out for 
chain letters; that you will get into arguments, and not 
to make the worker unwilling to be seen with you. 
The papanzer 8 Manual 
- 
id. 
The O 
Collective 
1971; 366 pp. 
$1.25 postpaid 
from: 
Bantam Books, Inc. 
666 Fifth Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Ecology action organizations should acovide the following services 
to the community: 
a regularly distributed newsletter on what has 
to be done and what has been done; grievances and discussion 
meetings 
and community projects. Scout troops, women’s clubs, 
school groups, etc., are good places to plant suggestions for projects. 
Within the organization itself, utilize a storefront office asa place 
from which to (1) publish research; (2) keep a file on local polluters; 
(3) document the legislative records of local congressmen and 
representatives to see if they 'mat<h recent eco-rhetoric; (4) publicize 
- an environmental hot line which gives the phone numbers of govern- 
ment agencies in your area to contact about instances of pollution; 
(5) lobby for legislation banning the internal-combustion engine and 
funding good efficient mass transportation; (6) start an ecology 
food store which specializes in organic food, returnable containers, 
and minimal packaging; (7) in conjunction with the food store, 
establish an ecology counseling service which develops with people 
ways to run an ecologically sound household; (8) send out speakers, 
movies, and literature; (9) distribute birth-control information and 
devices (check the legality so you know the situation). Demand 
— 
that abortions and birth-control devices be provided free; 
(10) organize boycotts against local or national firms which insist 
on operating without regard to the environment; (11) send out 
guerrilla theater groups to hold mock funerals for rivers and other 
dying resources or hold parades for clean air complete with balloons, 
gas masks, drums, and coughing participants; (12) initiate cam- 
paigns to return all bottles, cans, and excess packaging to stores. 
Ask that it all be sent back to the manufacturer; (13) watch over, 
and fight when appropriate, “urban renewal’’ zoning, highway and 
airport projects, university and corporate expansion into surrounding 
neighborhoods; (14) set up ‘‘people’s parks’’ in abandoned lots; 
conduct neighborhood cleanups (with community consent and 
participation). 
Guerrilla Theater 
Anthology of German Expressionist Drama, .ed. Walter Sokel, 
Doubleday Anchor, 1969, $1.75: 
Brecht on Theatre, ed. J. Willett, Hill & Wang, 1964, $2.45. 
Commedia dell’Arte, G. Oreglia, Hill & Wang, 1968, $1.95. 
Complete Plays and Prose, Georg Biichner (trans, C. R. Mueller), 
Hill & Wang, 1968, $1.75. 
‘ 
Eyes on Mime: Language’ without Sirpechs Katherine Walker, 
Day, 1969, $4.95. 
Guerrilla 
Theatre 
Essay 
(pamphlet), 
San 
Francisco 
Mime 
Troupe, Dept. R., 450 Alabama St., San Francisco, Calif. 94110. 
Happenings: An Illustrated Anthology, ed. M. Kirby, E. P. Dut- 
ton, 1965, $1.95. 
:
j
4:
— 
~~
. =
Improvisation: Discovery and Creativity in Drama, J. Hodgson 
and E, Richards, Barnes & Noble, 1966, $2.25. 
Modern French Drama: The Avant Garde, Dada and Surrealism, 
— 
M. Benedikt and G. E. Wellwarth, E. P. Dutton, 1964, $2.75. 
New Underground Theatre, ed. R. J. Schroeder, Bantam, 1969, 
$1.25. 
Organizing a Community Theatre, S. Seldon, Theatre Arts Books, 
$1.75. 
“Politics of Performance,” The Drama Review, and most issues 
of this quarterly since 1968. TDR, New York University, 32 Wash- 
ington Pl., New York, N.Y. 10003; $5/yr. 
Radical Theatre Festival, San Francisco Mime Troupe, Dept. R., 
450 Alabama St., San Francisco, Calif. 94110, $1.50. Discussion 
of the nature Aad: practice of radical theater. 
Stagecraft for Non-Professionals, F. A. Buerki, University of Wiss 
consin Press, 1955, $1.50. 
Toward a Poor Theatre, J. Grotowski, Clarion, 1969, $2.45. 
Ubu Plays, Albert Jarry, Grove Evergreen, 1960, $1.95. 
Alternatives Directories 
Movement yellow pages. Pretty handy. 
ae 
Directory of Free Schools 
1970; 30 pp. 
Directory for Personal Growth 
1970; 30 pp. 
Directory of Social Change 
1970; 30 pp. 
$1.00 each 
from: 
Alternatives! 
1526 Gravenstein Hwy, No. 
Sebastopol, CA 97452 
