oelY Ap Tees 
ke 
<<. 
Commonsense Childbirth 
Mrs. Hazell writes from the personal experience of having 
had one child under anaesthesia, another using La 
Maze method, and a third at home. The book covers 
pregnancy, birth, and care of the newborn. It is gently 
positive about husband-coaching and breastfeeding. 
There’s a good chapter on home deliveries. It’s written by 
an intelligent woman, and it doesn’t needlessly complicate 
what is really a very simple peed of controlled breathing 
and relaxation. 
[Reviewed by Pam Smith. Suggested by Judith Bass] 
W Serre Hu 
Commonsense Childbirth 
Lester Dessez Hazell 
1969; 243pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
from: 
Tower Publications 
185 Madison Avenue 
New York, New York 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
My own point of view on home delivery is influenced by the fact 
that all my experience with it has been positive. 
Babies born at 
home seem better to me in every respect, and my students who 
have had both home and hospital deliveries prefer home. These 
babies are born crying and healthy, and with their mothers they 
continue in the pattern of life they have been living the last nine 
months. 
@ 
What a mother eats has a profound effect on the outcome of her 
pregnancy and on her baby’s start in life. A number of very 
convincing studies tie complications of pregnancy to a poor- 
quality diet. Not only do many minor annoyances of pregnancy 
vanish when ample amounts of necessary elements are added to 
. the diet, but the baby is basically affected as well. One study 
found that 94 percent of babies born to mothers whose diet was 
excellent were perfect specimens, whereas 92 percent of babies 
whose mothers’ diets were inadequate in as little as one element 
were defective in some way. 
It has been my observation that the 
women who feel on top of the world are usually the ones who take 
good food’ seriously and concentrate on eating types of food that 
contain the raw material with which to maintain health and manu- 
facture a healthy baby. 
... 
Happy Baby Food Grinder 
When it comes to tools for child-rearing, this item is second 
only to the human breast in solving feeding problems. 
Better than a blender, it can easily be carried wherever 
parents go, to grind table foods up to proper consistency 
for small infants through 
toddlers. 
[Suggested and 
reviewed by 
Mrs. Ruth Rutherford] 
$6.20 First Class Mail 
$6.45 Each Airmail 
Happy Baby Food Grinder 
$5.45 postpaid 
from: 
Dolly Lundberg 
4036 Waterhouse Road 
Oakland, CA 94602 
from: 
Bowland Jacobs Mfg. Co. 
9 Oakdale Ave. 
‘ 
Spring Valley, Ill. 61362 
. Happy East Coast Babies 
| have information regarding another supplier of the Happy 
Baby Food Grinder. 
\t would be beneficial to East Coast 
readers. 
It is as follows: 
Bowland-Jacobs Manufacturing Co. 
9 Oakdale Road 
Spring Valley, Illinois 61362 
Mrs. William E. Kelley 
Hoosick Falls, N.Y: 
You certainly don’t have to become a nutrition expert, however, 
to provide yourself with high-quality food. The trick is to keep 
your eye on how much protein you eat and at the same time to 
see that you get something every day from each of the four major 
food groups: 
1) meat-egg; 2) milk-cheese; 3) vegetable-fruit; 
4) bread-cereal. 
1f we want to use a.mnemonic device, we can call 
this the P-4 plan: Eat lots of protein in each of the basic four 
every day. 
As soon as the bearing-down reflex is established, second stage is 
begun. For the next few contractions you push your baby down 
two steps, and he slides back one. This can be discouraging if 
you don’t realize that this is the normal pattern of labor. However, 
when you stop: to think about it, this makes good sense. 
In this 
way your passages are dilated gently and slowly by the plunger 
action of the baby, the baby has fluid squeezed from his iungs, his 
skin is stimulated preparatory to his existence in a world that will 
be constantly touching him, and then during the interval between 
contractions everyond rests. 
What does the bearing-down reflex feel like? Everyone has exper- 
ienced this to some degree. 
It is very like the pushing of a bowel 
movement, only more sustained and more demanding. 
It is far easier 
not to push when one is having a bowel movement than when one 
is having a baby. However, the second-stage contractions are not, as 
a rule, painful. 
In fact, they are very satisfying. You may be sur- 
prised at the noises you make. So may your family. 
The first milk that flows is the high-protein, nonfat type... This 
fairly gushes into the baby’s mouth. 
Later when the flow is slower 
comes the cream. The cream sticks to the baby’s ribs because it 
digests more slowly than the nonfat milk. 
It is also more filling. 
So it is providential that while the baby is nursing vigorously in the 
first flush of hunger, he does not get his high-calorie dessert. Entrée 
before ice cream is a habit formed early! 
Thus a baby knows best how to regulate how long he should nurse. 
He does this according to the needs of his stomach as well as for 
the joy of cuddling with his mother. 
The let-down of the milk is a conditioned reflex. 
In the early days 
of nursing the milk flows frequently at only the thought of the 
baby or even the cry of someone else’s baby. Later this becomes 
conditioned to the particular baby’s sucking. Hence the working 
mother can go all day long and not feed her baby, and her breasts 
will remain flat and comfortable. 
As soon as her baby takes a few 
sucks, the milk flows in any quantity he needs. 
We know that gross brain damage rises in direct proportion to the 
amount of analgesic medication given to the mother during her 
labor. The baby of an anesthetized and dopey mother will have 
been subjected to the same or greater degree (relative to body 
size) of anesthesia and dopiness at a time when he needs to breathe 
well and when his circulation should be operating at peak efficiency. 
Yet the educated laboring woman finds that at every turn she must 
defend her position that she doesn’t need analgesic medication as 
one attendant after another presses her to accept such nostrums. 
She.may even have to apologize for not wanting to take medicine 
which she knows could jeopardize her baby. 
Maternity Comfort Cushion 
Pregnant ladies can’t lie on their bellies because there’s no 
place to put the bulges. With this cushion there is. It’s well. 
designed, and the ladies say it makes a big difference. 
—SB 
Maternity Comfort Cushion 
Molded polyurethane cushion with brushed nylon cover 
$10.00 plus $1.00 postage 
from: 
~Maternity Products Division 
Ellsworth Laboratories 
Stanford P.O. Box 6101 
Palo Alto, CA 94305 
Before nursing, distended breasts 
relieved with cushion crosswise 
After the baby comes, “sore 
under the breasts 
bottom syndrome’”’ relieved by 
sitting on the cushion 
Thorax and pelvis rest on tapered ends of cushion. 
Preparation for Childbirth 
This is a thoroughly practical handbook. 
The suggestions 
- 
if followed for carrying, climbing, lifting, breathing, and 
conscious relaxation are sound suggestions for the pregnant 
woman or anyone, for that matter. One chart on the 
Relief of Common Discomforts that May Occur During 
Pregnancy matches a discomfort with an exercise or position 
to alleviate it. The book does not advocate “Natural 
Childbirth” but rather suggests that each person is indi- 
vidual in his need for anesthetics; its aim (by use of many 
illustrations) is to make pregnancy, childbearing, and 
post partum as comfortable as possible. 
[Reviewed by Jane Stallings. 
Suggested by Haru Bekker] 
Preparation for 
Childbirth 
1963, 1969; 47 pp. 
$1.00 
from: 
Maternity Center 
Association 
48 East 92nd St. 
New York, N.Y. 
10028 
ONSET OF LABOR 
You may notice any one ora 
combination of 
Check signs; time contractions. 
Regular contractions felt as back- 
Call doctor and report 
ache, pelvic pressure, gas, 
If daytime continue usual light actrwity 
menstrual crarnp, etc.) 
activity 
Show 
If night, rest 
Rupture of membranes 
EARLY FIRST STAGE 
Cervix effacing, dilation beginning 
When contractions start, breathe out 
and relax. 
Continue slow deep 
Contractions become strong enough 
that you feel need to do something. 
Dilation continuing; contractions 
becoming somewhat closer 
and stronger 
breathing through contraction. 
Try sitting positions (9). 
In between contractions rest, read, 
watch TV, etc 
Go to hospital as doctor directs. 
Relax as much as possible in 
sitting or lying positions during 
travel and admitting procedures. 
Lie on side, breathe deeply and slowly 
while rocking pelvis very gently 
throughout contraction (11). 
{f contractions are causing backache 
Childbirth Education 
ICEA is engaged in furthering the cause of family-centered 
maternity and infant-care and believes in closer roles for the 
father during childbirth and periods before and after, 
breast-feeding, the La Maze natural childbirth method, and 
generally, further education about childbirth for all concerned. 
They answer specific questions about childbirth, help 
organize classes, and “make available through the ICEA 
Supplies Center significant information on all aspects of 
childbirth education and family-centered maternity and 
infant care.” 
—Hal Hershey 
Information 
from: 
International Childbirth Education Association 
P.O. Box 5852 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
Catalog 
free 
Booklist 
“ 
trom: 
International Childbirth Education Association 
Supplies Center 
1414 N.W. 85th St. 
Seattle, WA 98117 
PART FIVE 
ACROSS THE BRIDGE 
There goes D.R. Davenport, David Ray some folks call him, 
across the bridge into Kentucky, flipping the dial through Bill 
Monroe and his Bluegrass Boys to the Reverend Archie Turner 
saying Jesus on the main-line, tell him what you need, everybody 
here loves Jesus say amen. 
D.R. said amen and roared on across 
the bluegrass toward the range of hills that stretched across the 
windshield like the jagged spine of some old dinosaur. 
Birth 
Community 
