Think 
Little 
See Epilog, page 463 
_ A Continuous Harmony” 
First there was Civil Rights, and then there was The War, 
and now it is The Environment. The first two of this 
sequence of causes have already risen to the top of the 
nation’s consciousness and declined somewhat in a remark- 
ably short time. | mention this.in order to begin with what 
| believe to be a justifiable skepticism. For it seems to me 
that the Civil Rights Movement and the Peace Movement, as 
popular causes in the electronic age, have partaken far too 
‘ much of the nature of fads. Not for all, certainly, but for 
too many they have been the fashionable politics of the 
moment. As causes they have been undertaken too much in 
ignorance; they have been too much simplified; they have 
been powered too much by impatience and guilt of con- 
science and short-term enthusiasm, and too little by an 
authentic social vision and long-term conviction and 
deliveration. 
For most people those causes have remained 
almost entirely abstract; there has been too little personal 
involvement, and too much involvement in organizations 
which were insisting that other organizations should do 
what was right. 
There is considerable danger that the Environment Move- 
ment will have the same nature: 
that it will be a public 
cause, served by organizations that will self-righteously 
criticize and condemn other organizations, inflated for a 
while by a lot of public talk in the media, only to be replaced 
in its turn by another fashionable crisis. 
| hope that will not 
happen, and | believe that there are ways to keep it from 
happening, but | know that if this effort is carried on sole- 
ly as a public cause, if millions of people cannot or will 
not undertake it as a private cause as well, then it is sure to 
happen. 
In five years the energy of our present concern will 
have petered out in a series of public gestures——and no 
doubt in a series of empty laws——and a great, and perhaps 
the last, human opportunity will have been lost. 
It need not be that way. A better possibility is that the 
movement to preserve the environment will be seen to be, 
as | think it has to be, not a digression from the civil 
rights and peace movements, but the logical culmination 
of those movements. 
For | believe that the separation of 
these three problems is artificial. They have the same cause, 
and that is the mentality of greed and exploitation. The 
mentality that exploits and destroys the natural environ- 
ment is the same that abuses racial and economic minorities, 
that imposes on young men the tyranny of the military 
draft, that makes war against peasants and women and 
children with the indifference of technology. The mentali- 
ty that destroys a watershed and then panics at the threat 
of flood is the same mentality that gives institutionalized 
insult to black people and then panics at the prospect of 
race riots. 
It is the same mentality that can mount 
deliberate warfare against a civilian population and then 
express moral shock at the logical consequence of such 
warfare at My Lai. We would be fools to believe that we 
could solve any one of these problems without solving the 
others. 
To me, one of the most important aspects of the environ- 
mental movement is that it brings us not just to another 
public crisis, but to a crisis of the protest movement itself. 
For the environmental crisis should make it dramatically 
clear, as perhaps it has not always been before, that there 
is no public crisis that is not also private. To most advo- 
cates of civil rights racism has seemed mostly the fault of 
someone else. For most advocates of peace the war has 
been a remote reality, and the burden of the blame has 
seemed to rest mostly on the government. 
| am certain that 
Think Little 
Whole Systems 
“eee 
a 
these crises have been more private, and that we have each 
suffered more from them and been more responsible for 
them, than has been readily apparent, but the connections 
have been difficult to see. Racism and militarism have been 
institutionalized among us for too long for our personal 
involvement in those evils to be easily apparent to us. Think, 
for example, of all the Northerners who assumed——until 
black people attempted to move into their neighborhoods—— 
that racism was a Southern phenomenon. And think how 
quickly——one might almost say how naturally——among some 
of its members the peace movement has spawned pote 
of deliverate provocation and violence. 
But the environmental crisis rises closer to home. Every 
time we draw a breath, every time we drink a glass of water, 
every time we eat a bite of food we are suffering from it. 
And more important, every time we indulge in, or depend 
on, the wastefulness of our economy——and our economy’s 
first principle is waste——we are causing the crisis. Nearly 
every one of us, nearly every day of his life, is contributing 
directly to the ruin of this planet. A.protest meeting on the 
issue of environmental abuse is not a convocation of 
“accusers, it is a convocation of the guilty. That realization 
ought to-clear the smog of self-righteousness that has almost 
conventionally hovered over these occasions, and let us see 
the work that is to be done. 
In this crisis it is certain that every one of us has a public 
' 
responsibility. We must not cease to bother the government 
and the other institutions, to see that they never become 
comfortable with easy promises. For myself, | want to say 
that | hope never again to go to Frankfort to present a 
petition to the governor on an issue so vital as that of strip 
mining, only to be dealt with by some ignorant functionary 
——as several of us were not so long ago, the governor him- 
self being “‘too busy” to receive us. Next time | will go 
prepared to wait as long as necessary to see that the 
petitioners’ complaints and their arguments are heard 
fully——and by the.governor. And then | will hope to find 
ways to keep those complaints and arguments from being 
forgotten until something is done to relieve them. The time 
is past when it was enough merely to elect our officials. We 
will have to elect them and then go and watch them and 
keep our hands on them, the way the coal companies do. We 
have made a tradition in Kentucky of putting self-servers, 
and worse, in charge of our vital interests. 
| am sick of it. 
And | think that one way to change it is to make Frankfort 
a less comfortable place. 
|! believe in American political 
principles, and | will not sit idly by and see those principles 
destroyed by sorry practice. | am ashamed and deeply dis- 
tressed that American government should have become the 
chief cause of disillusionment with American principles. 
And so when the government in Frankfort again proves too 
stupid or too blind or too corrupt to see the plain truth 
and to act with simple decency, | intend to be there, and | 
trust that | won't be alone. 
| hope, moreover, to be there, 
and with a sign or a slogan or a button, but with the facts 
and the arguments. A crowd whose discontent has risen 
- 
no higher than the tevel of slogans is on/y acrowd. Buta 
crowd that understands the reasons for its discontent and 
knows the remedies is a vital community, and it will have to 
be reckoned with. | would rather go before the government 
with two men who have a competent understanding of an 
issue, and who therefore deserve a hearing, than to go 
with two thousand who are vaguely dissatisfied. 
7 
But even the most articulate public protest is not enough. 
We don’t live in the government or in institutions or in our 
public utterances and acts, and the environmental crisis has 
its roots in our /ives. By the same token, environmental 
health will also be rooted in our lives. That is, | take it, 
simply a fact, and in the light of it we can see how super- 
ficial and foolish we would be to think that we could correct 
what is wrong merely by tinkering with the institutional 
machinery. The changes that are required are fundamental 
changes in the way we are living. 
What we are up against in this country, in any attempt to 
involve private responsibility, is that we have nearly 
destroyed private life. Our people have given up their 
independence in return mostly for the cheap seductions 
and the shoddy merchandise of so-called “affluence.’’ We 
have delegated all our vital functions and responsibilities 
to salesmen and agents and bureaus and experts of all sorts. 
We cannot feed or clothe ourselves, or entertain ourselves, 
or communicate with each other, or be charitable or 
neighborly or loving, or even respect.ourselves, without 
recourse to a merchant or a corporation or a public service 
organization or an agency of the government or a style- 
setter or an expert. Most of us cannot think of dissenting 
from the opinions or the actions of one organization with- 
out first forming a new organization. Individualism is going 
around these days in uniform, handing out the party line 
on individualism. -Dissenters'want to publish their personal 
opinions over a thousand signatures. 
The Confucian Great Digest says that the ‘‘chief way for the 
production of wealth” (and he is talking about real goods, 
not money) is ‘that tne producers be many and that the 
mere consumers be few. . .”” ‘But even in the much public- 
ized rebellion of the young against the materialism of the 
affluent society, the consumer mentality is too often still 
intact: the standards of behavior are still those of kind and 
quantity, the security sought is still the security of numbers, 
and the chief motive is still the consumer’s anxiety that one 
is missing out on what is “in.” In this state of total con- 
sumerism——which is to say a state of helpless dependence 
‘wasteful methods of haste and anxiety. As a class, farmers = 
tion to their land——which was often hereditary and 
on things and services and ideas and motives that 
we have ; 
forgotten how to provide ourselves——all meaningful 
contact between ourselves and the earth is broken. We do 
not understand the earth either in terms of what it offers 
us or what it requires of us, and | think it is the rule that 
people inevitably destroy what they do not understand. 
Most of us are not directly responsible for strip mining and oe 
extractive agriculture and other forms of environmental = 
abuse. But we are guilty nevertheless, for we connive in = 
them by our ignorance. We are ignorantly dependent on 
them. We do not know enough about them; we do not have 
~ 
a particular enough sense of their damage. Most of us, for 
example, not only do not know how to produce the best 
food in the best way——we don’t know how to produce any 
kind in any way. And for this condition we have elaborate ~ 
rationalizations, instructing us that dependence for every- 
thing on somebody else is efficient and economicalanda 
scientific miracle. | say, instead, that it is madness, mass _ 
produced. A man who understands the weather only in — 
terms of golf is participating in a chronic public insanity 
- 
that either he or his descendents will be bound to realizeas 
suffering. | believe that the death of the world is breeding in | 
such minds much more certainly and much faster than in any 
political capital or atomic arsenal. 
~ 
ae 
a 
G | 
§ 
ee 
For an index of our loss of contact with the earth we need’ 
only to look at the condition of the American farmer——who 
must in our society, as in every society, enact man’s 
= 
dependence on the land, and his responsibility to it. Inan 
age of unparalleled affluence and leisure, the American 
ah 
farmer is harder pressed and harder worked than ever before; 
his margin of profit is small, his hours long; his outlays for — 
land and equipment and the expenses of maintenance and 
operation are growing rapidly greater; he cannot compete —_— 
with industry for labor; he is being forced more and moreto 
depend on the use of destructive chemicals and onthe 
are one of the despised minorities. So far as | can see farm- 
ing is considered marginal or incidental to the economy of — 
the country, and farmers, when they are thought of at all, 
are thought of as hicks and yokels, whose lives:do not fit — 
into the modern scene. The average American farmer is now 
an old man, whose sons have moved away to the cities. His 
knowledge, and his intimate connection with the land are 
; 
about to be lost. The small independent farmer is goingthe 
way of the small independent craftsmen and storekeepers. 
He is being forced off the land into the cities, his place 
4 
taken by absentee owners, corporations, and machines. 
Some would justify all this in the name of efficiency. As| 
see it, it is an enormous social and economic and cultural 
~ 
blunder. For the small farmers who lived on their farms 
cared about their land. And given their established connec- — 
traditional as well as economic——they could have been 
— rea 
encouraged to care for it more competently than they have — 
so far. The corporations and machines that replace them = 
will never be bound to the land by the sense of birthright = 
and continuity,-or by the love which enforces care. They 
—s_—. 
will be bound by the rule of efficiency which takes thought © 
only of the volume of the year’s produce, and takesno 
thought of the slow increment of the live of the land, not 
measurable in pounds or dollars, which will assurethe 
us| 
ee 
“ 
livelihood and the health of the coming generations. 
= 
If we are to hope to correct our abuses of each other 
and of 
other races and of our land, and if our effort-to correct 
4 | 
these abuses is to be more than a political fad that willin 
the long run be only another form of abuse, then we are 
eA 
going to have to go far beyond public protest and poital 
=| 
action. We are going to have to rebuild the substance and — = 
the integrity of private life in this country. We are going to 
4 
have to gather up the fragments of knowledge and responsi-_ =| 
bility that we have parceled out to the bureaus and the | 
| 
corporations and the specialists, and we are going to have to |
put those fragments back together again in our own minds ee 
| 
and in our families and households and neighborhoods. We 
| 
need better government, no doubt about it. But we also 
need better minds, better friendships, better marriages, 
better communities. We need persons and households that 
do not need to wait upon organizations but who can make — 
