-orWHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The Goshawk — 
Those who enjoyed the falconry scenes in The Once And 
Future King wi// not be surprised to know that White learned 
it all from a hawk. 
This book chronicles one of the damnedest 
duels there is between species, as memorable as the longest 
swordfight of screen history at the end of which James Mason 
salute and dives out the castle window into the waiting moat. 
Is it strange that out of battle this intense comes sympathy 
this intense? 
The Goshawk 
T. H. White 
1951; 215 pp. 
$2.25 postpaid 
from: 
Viking Press 
625 Madison Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10022 
In teaching a hawk it was useless to bludgeon the creature into 
submission. The raptors had no tradition of masochism, and the 
more one menaced or tortured them, the more they menaced in 
return. Wild and intransigent, it was yet necessary to ‘break’ them 
somehow or other, before they could be tamed and taught. Any 
cruelty, being immediately resented, was.worse than useless, because 
the bird would never bend or break to it. He possessed the last 
' 
inviolable sanctuary of death: The mishandled raptor chose to die. 
Stromberg’s Beginner’s Falconry Bulletin 
So the old hawk-masters had invented a means of taming them which 
offered no visible curelty, and whose secret cruelty had to be borne 
by the trainer as well as by the bird. They kept the bird awake. Not 
by nudging it, or by any mechanical means, but by walking about with 
their pupil on the fist and staying awake themselves. The hawk was 
‘watched’, was deprived of sleep by a sleepless man, day and night, 
for a space of two, three, or as much as nine nights together. 
It was 
only the stupid teachers who could go as far as nine nights: 
the 
genius could do. with two, and the average man with three. 
All the 
time he treated his captive with more than every courtesy, more 
than every kindness and consideration. The captive did not know 
that it was being kept ewake by an act of will, but only that it- was 
awake, and in the end, becoming too sleepy to mind what happened, 
it would droop tts head and wings and go to sleep on the fist. 
It 
would say: ‘lam so tired that | will accept this curious perch, 
repose my trust in this curious creature, anything so | may rest.’ 
This was what | was now setting out to do. | was to stay awake if 
necessary for three days and nights, during which, | hoped, the 
tyrant would learn ta stop his bating and to accept my hand as a 
perch, would consent to eat there and would become a little 
accustomed to the strange life of human beings. 
~ 
/f you’re seriously interested in hawking, this is a most 
practical $1.25. A quick summary of what you’re in for, 
an annotated list of books, suppliers of falconry equipment 
_and falcons, and falconry clubs. 
—SB 
Stromberg’s Beginners Falconry Bulletin 
$1 .25 postpaid 
from: 
~ 
Stromberg’s 
Box 717 
- 
Ft. Dodge, lowa 50501 
Stromberg’s Pets 
They don’t have buffalo, but they have wild turkeys, 
ocelots, Mexican burros, ravens, monkeys, wood ducks, 
Belgian hares, exotic pigeons, 
mynah birds, and assorted 
equipment. 
i 
Catalog 
: 
$0.50 
from: 
Stromberg’s 
Box 717 
Ft. Dodge, lowa 50501 
ABYSSINIAN 
Quality $100.00 Pedigreed $150.00 
BLACK BEAR CUB $150.00 
TRAINED GOSHAWK ‘‘GAIETY GIRL”’ 
And oh! the agony of patience, the brooding and godlike benevo- 
lence which had been exerted. At the thousandth bate in a day, 
on an arm that ached to the bone with its L-shaped rigidity 
under the weight of the bird, merely to twitch him gently back to 
the glove, to speak to him kindly with the little mew which of my 
. 
conversation he seemed to like best, to smile past him at space, to 
re-assure with tranquillity, when one yearned to beat him down— 
with a mad surge of blood to the temples to pound, pash, dismember, 
wring, wrench, pluck, cast about in all directions, batter, bash, 
tug, and stamp on, utterly to punish, and obliterate, have done with 
and finally finish this dolt, cow, maniac, unteachable, unutterable, 
unsupportable Gos. 
To fly:. the horrible aerial toad, the silent-feathered owl, the hump- 
backed aviating Richard, 
!!!, he made toward me close to the 
ground. 
His wings beat with a measured purpose, the two eyes of 
his low-held head fixed me with a ghoulish concentration: 
but like 
headlamps, like the forward-fixed eyes of a rower through the air 
who knew his quay. The French called him rameur as well as 
cuisinier. Too frighteningly for words (when | had taken him up 
to bring him to the well— and given him the shred of beef with 
which he was always rewarded for a voluntary jump— _ he had flown 
to my shoulder and fixed his talons in the unprotected flesh, taking 
me by the scruff of the neck), too menacingly he flew; not toward 
the at-right-angles-held-out beef, but directly toward my face. At 
five paces nerve broke. 
| ducked, still holding the beef at the 
stretch of my arm, and stayed cowering for two beats of the heart. 
Falconry is as old as Babylon. 
It has never been a dead sport, and 
it does keep on developing. At the present moment it is developing 
in America, where young and enthusiastic and progressive falconers 
are doing wonders by not fussin. 
!f a good American falconer 
would come over to Europe and show us how he does things, it 
would make the old fogies blink. 
Page 209 of The Last Whole 
Earth Catalog, in a review by SB, 
encourages the buying of hawks, 
lower on the same page is an ad 
offering hawks for sale. Please, 
please please, you are uninten- 
tionally 
undoing 
the work 
of 
hundreds of U.S. Falconers who 
distinctly discourage the commer- 
cial trafficking of birds of prey. 
If you need confirmation 
of 
this contact the North American 
Falconer’s Association, the largest 
and best. falconry establishment 
on the continent. They have a 
large number of people in the 
Bay Area. 
The problem is that hawks are 
decreasing 
in numbers due 
to 
pesticides, shooting, and habitat 
destruction, while would-be fal- 
coners are increasing. The only 
way an inept falconer can 
get 
WILD TURKEY TOM 
Book with breeding instructions $1.25 
people like the Florida Animal 
Dealers 
who 
supply 
sick, 
im- 
ported or stolen birds (and often 
totally wrong types of hawks) to 
_ 
beginners who have no idea of 
how to properly treat a raptorial 
bird. The result is a good num- 
ber of dead hawks every year. 
exacting and very difficult sport. 
There 
are few good falconers. 
Advertising the sport can 
only 
end 
in harming the declining 
populations of the birds and the 
reputation 
of falconry. I urge 
you to withdraw your. falconry 
ads as soon as possible from fur- 
ther printings of the Catalog. Or 
at least rap with somebody down 
there who knows about hawking 
—please!! 
—Bud Anderson, Seattle 
birds 
is by. buying them. from. 
Falconry is a time consuming, 
- 
The Art and Practice of Hawking 
! gather from Natural History that falconry is flourishing in 
the U.S., possibly to the detriment of some of the wild 
hawks who are becoming endangered species. Many 
fal: 
coners feel bound to capture wild birds; they are not helping 
the situation. 
/f enthusiasts will buy and breed hawks in- 
stead, says Natural History, they can reverse their effect and 
be a significant help. 
T. H. White was using obsolete books and methods with his 
goshawk. For more current and more effective technique 
this book has most of what you need. 
The Art and Practice of Hawking 
E. B. Michell 
1900; 291 pp 
$7.00 postpaid 
from: 
Charles T. Branford Co. 
28 Union St. 
Newton Center, Mass. 02159 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
As for passage hawks, you must remember, when teaching them to 
wait on, that there is much more danger than there is with eyésses. 
The longer they are kept on the wing, and the higher they go, the 
more chance there is of their espying some bird passing— perhaps 
some old familiar quarry, of which they have struck down scores 
for themselves— and making off after it. The very fact of being 
in the air, and feeling the free breeze as it lifts their wings, must 
remind them forcibly of old days of liberty, and slacken the ties 
which bind them to their new master. 
Be extra careful, therefore, 
in the case of all passage hawks, and most of all with the haggard, to 
watch for any signs of returning native wildness. 
Fly her ina 
country where chance quarry are not likely to appear. 
If she 
“rakes away,’’ or wanders far from you in making her airy circles, 
call her back before it is too late. Fly her always when she is 
quite sharpset, even if you have to give her little or no exercise on 
some of the intermediate days between one lesson and the next. 
You may diet her now upon “‘washed meat.’’ This is meat washed 
in cold water and squeezed dry, so that a part of the nutriment 
Originally contained in it is lost. 
Itis, of course, less palatable and 
less sustaining. But it should be used in moderation. The old 
falconers seem to have given it much more often than we do now. 
But for some reason or other the nineteenth century hawk, if at 
all habitually dieted on this distasteful food, seems to lose pluck 
and power as well as weight. 
‘See Epilog, page 666 
SATURDAY MORNING 
Divine Right stayed in Cincinnati all day Saturday and half 
of Sunday, but only two things of any real interest happened to 
him. He watched Saturday morning TV cartoons with the kids, 
and then on Sunday morning received an important message straight 
from God. More might have happened if D.R. had been open to it. 
Marcella wanted to get out the family photographs and talk about 
the old days, and Doyle wanted to take D.R. to his shop and teach 
him how to give Urge a tune-up. But it was obvious that D.R. 
was preoccupied and perhaps even upset about something and they 
didn’t want to impose upon him. Marcella had sensed something 
was wrong when she got her first look at D.R. Friday afternoon. 
Doyle had felt it too as they were talking during supper. D.R. 
didn't get back to the’ house after his second phone call till way 
after everybody else’s bedtime and so Marcella let him sleep through 
breakfast the next morning and Doyle went on to work by himself. 
D.R. likely would have slept right on till noon if the kids hadn’t 
turned the TV up so loud when the cartoons began. Marcella was 
outside spraying bug killer on the roses when she heard the noise. 
She had specifically told the kids to keep the volume down while 
their uncle was asleep, and when she heard it booming through 
the windows she got really mad. She rushed in the house, jerked 
both kids to their feet and was in the process of spanking their 
asses when Divine Right came into the living room, yawning. 
Marcella snapped the television off and ordered the kids to go out 
in the yard and play. Debbie had begun to cry as soon as her 
mother burst into the room, and now she was clinging to Marcella’s 
legs, pleading for forgiveness. Herschel almost cried but at the 
crucial moment he got hold of himself and stomped his foot on 
the floor instead. 
"Shoot," said Herschel. “| wanted to watch Johnny Hero.” 
"I'm going to Johnny Hero your little butt if you don’t get 
out of here,” Marcella snapped. Then, to D.R., “I’m sorry, David. 
This place is a madhouse this morning.” 
"That's all right,” said D.R. “I feel pretty crazy myself.” 
He was sleepy and groggy but he smiled and gestured with his 
hands to show that everything really was okay. It wasn’t okay 
with Marcella yet. She was debating whether or not to whip 
Herschel for stomping the floor, and Debbie was being a perfect 
nuisance clawing at her legs. 
‘ 
But the moment passed. Marcella bent over and picked Debbie 
up, and held her, and Herschel, who had been lurking in the doorway, 
slunk back in and sat down beside D.R., and very close to him, 
on the 
couch. Marcella told D.R. there was coffee made, and juice, and 
to call her when he was ready for breakfast. 
D.R. thanked her and 
said he would. Marcella carried Debbie outside with her, and when 
the storm door slammed, Herschel ran to the TV and tuned in 
Johnny Hero again. 
Animals 
Community 
