Querstanding whole systems is knowing how to fly. 
You can rise above local circumstances, travel with 
blurring speed, and set down in a place wholly distant, 
strange, and wonderful. Or maybe not so wonderful, 
in which case you best know how to take off ina 
tight situation, and remember where home is. 
The price you pay for the understanding is the grim 
knowledge of trade-offs in design. That you can 
have an airplane that goes fast or one that lands in 
200 ft. but not both. That to save these people you 
may 
have to starve those people. 
By and by you dwell in a wilderness of conflicting 
considerations. 
If you survive your wishful 
solutions——and there’s usually margin——you may 
become a wily and sky-hooked metaphysician. 
The 
solutions are always meta. 
The means always funky 
field expedient. 
| 7) ® 
BERS SERBESREBHRSHSSSESRERRBSEBRSSRESREBABESEBHE 
Dynamo and Virgin Reconsidered 
Here in one sharp little book are noted many of the large- 
scale turns of history and culture that we are visibly and 
invisibly making in one evolutionary blink of time. Unlike 
most overviewers, White does not concern himself with 
so much pace of change as he does with origins and 
directions. His 1967 essay “The Historical Roots of Our 
Ecologic Crisis” (chapter 5 in this book) is already a 
much-reprinted classic. | suspect that Chapter 11, “The 
Necessity of Witches” will become one. 
—SB 
(Now called 
Machina Ex Deo) 
Dynamo and 
Virgin Reconsidered 
Lynn White, Jr. 
1968; 186pp. 
$2.45 postpaid 
from: 
The MIT Press 
50 Ames Street 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
From the kaleidoscopic and iridescent record of mankind, we can 
learn chiefly this: the possible range of human thought, emotion, 
organization, and action is almost infinite. |n facing today’s 
problems, we must therefore liberate ourselves from presuppositions 
as to what may or may not be possible. Knowledge of history frees 
us to be contemporary. 
Perception and Change 
John Platt is an astute scientist (physics, chemistry, biology) 
in the process of becoming an astute social inventor. He’s 
got some novel understandings and some promising routes 
out of the good old over-specialized, under-diversified 
deadly hole we’re in... and into the green forest of what 
~ 
a “we” is, or an “1”, 
; 
—SB 
Jol i Mhe 
Perception and Change 
John R. Platt 
1970; 178 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid 
from: 
University of Michigan Press 
615 E. University 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106 
Perception 
and Change 
Projeotini= 
jor 
survival 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
One reason why some fields are overstudied these days is our present 
system of government grants. 
Enrico Fermi once said that a scientist should change fields every 10 
years; that, in the first place, his ideas were exhausted by then, and 
he owed it to the younger men in the field to let them advance; 
and that, in the second place, his ideas might still be of great value 
in bringing a fresh viewpoint to a different field. 
Why should someone not make us a single suit that would shed 
rain and that we could ruffle up for comfort in any weather, as a 
bird ruffles its feathers? A bird needs no suitcase. 
Many-who have made the jump to the subjective have ended by 
treating the objective as small and unimportant.. Solipsist tyrants, 
believing that their will, like their eyeballs, could move mountains, 
have come to believe that it should trample over these small 
annoying figures in their visual field. 
i 
; 
° 
Prophecy is rash, but it may well be that the publication of D.T. 
Suzuki's first Essays in Zen Buddhism in 1927 will seem in future 
generations as great an intellectual event as William of Moerbeke’s 
Latin translations of Aristotle in the thirteenth century or 
Marsiglio Ficino’s 
of Plato in the fifteenth. But in Suzuki's case, 
the shell of the Occident has been broken through. More than we 
dream, we are now governed by the new canon of the globe. 
Francis tried to depose man from his monarchy over creation and 
set up a democracy of all God’s creatures. With him the ant is no 
longer simply a homily for the lazy, flames a sign of the thrust of 
the soul toward union with God; now they are Brother Ant and 
— 
Sister Fire, praising the Creator in their own ways as Brother Man 
does in his. . 
1 propose Francis as a patron saint.for ecologists. 
The Human Use of Human Beings 
A proper sequel to his Cybernetics, 
this book is social, untechnical, 
ultimate in most of its considerations. 
Norbert Wiener 
1950, 1954; 288 pp. 
/ts domain is the whole earth of the 
$1.65 postpaid 
mind. 
; 
F 
- 
from: 
Norbert Wiener is one of the 
Buon woos 
250 West 55th Street 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
founders of an n-dimensional 
inhabited world whose nature we‘ve 
yet to /earn. 
—SB 
It is the thesis of this book that society can only be understood 
through a study of the messages and the communication facilities 
which belong to it; and that in the future development of these mes- 
sages and communication facilities, messages between man and ma- 
chine and between machine and machine, are destined to play an 
ever-increasing part. 
Messages are themselves a form of pattern and organization. Indeed, 
it is possible to treat sets of messages as having an entropy like sets 
of states of the external world. Just as entropy is a measure of dis- 
orgahization, the information carried by a set of messages is a measure 
of erganization. 
!n fact, it is possible to interpret the information. car- 
ried by a message as essentially the negative of its entropy, and the 
negative logarithm of its probability. That is, the more probable the 
message, the less information it gives. Clichés, for example, are less 
ituminating than great poems. 
{ believe that Ashby’s brilliant idea of the unpurposeful random 
mechanism which seeks for its own purpose through a process of 
learning is not only one of-the great philosophical contributions of 
the present day, but will lead to highly useful technical developments 
in the task of automatization. 
Not only can we build purpose into 
machines, but in an overwhelming majority of cases a machine de- 
signed to avoid certain pitfalls of breakdown will look for purposes 
which it can fulfill. 
We are not stuff that abides, but patterns that perpetuate them- 
selves. A pattern is a message, and may be transmitted as a message. 
e 
Human Beings 
Whole Systems 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The Human Use of Human Beings 
t 
i 
Hy 
4 
+t 
HUMAN BEINGS 
Society 
| Cybemetics arad 4 
By Norhert Wiens” 
It is the great public which is demanding the utmost of secrecy for 
modern science in all things which may touch its military uses. 
This demand for secrecy is scarcely more than the wish of a sick 
civilization not to learn the progress of its own disease. 
It is illuminating to know that the sort of phenomenon which ts 
recorded subjectively as emotion may not be merely a useless epi- 
phenomenon of nervous action, but may control some essential 
stage in learning, and in other similar processes. 
~ 
choosing focus of a moving web of past antecedents and future 
— 
It is said that after the ceremonies dedicating the great telescope 
- process thinking and unitary man. The failure we are living 
x 4 
“Form is the recognizable continuity of any. process.” p. 15 
© 
Good living is with a tribe. At the Marine Biological Laboratories 
at Woods Hole, Massachusetts, where | have spent several summers, 
; 
the boundaries between the generations seem to disappear, as well 
= 
as the boundaries between work and play and between indoors and 
; 
outdoors and between man and environment. Children and 
: 
students and teachers walk barefoot in and out of the laboratories, 
— 
arguing science and studying the odd creatures brought up from the 
sea. All night they watch the fish embryos developing inthe dishes, 
= 
and they go out before dawn together to catch the big striped bass. 
The 4-year-olds solemnly examine frogs, the 10-year-olds sell their 
| 
catch of dogfish to the labs, the 15-year-olds listen to the DNA 
rele 
arguments on the beach or play savage tennis with the senior 
: 
scientists. 
= 
5 
e 
As perception theory now suggests, éach of us stands at the creative, 
— 
consequences that branch out from our present choices and 
: 
actions, propagating and amplifying themselves indefinitely. We 
interpenetrate the universe; it responds to our every breath. 
e. 
Se 
3 
It seems to me that the new rights for which a demand is arising — 
in our time, | think in an irresistible way, revolve primarily around 
the right not to be treated as an object. We are co-subjects in our 
society. 
s 
ec: 
on Mount Palomar, someone remarked to an astronomer, ‘’Modern — 
astronomy certainly makes man look insignificant, doesn’t it?” 
To which the astronomer replied, ‘But man is the astronomer!’” 
. 
; 
There was a period in our own society when we needed witches and 
—— 
had them in enormous numbers. !t began about the year 1300, 
~ | 
ended somewhat after 1650, and is usually called the Renaissance. 
_ 
This was a time of torrential flux, of fearful doubt, marking the. 
transition from the relative certainties of the Middle Ages to the 
| 
new certainties which dominated the eighteenth and nineteenth 
| 
centuries. 
' 
The Next Development 
in Man 
a 
es | 
Books. Lancelot Law Whyte, The Next Development in Man, 
Mentor paperback, 60¢ (may be more now). Writtenin 1948 
but still relevant. Whyte wants to change the processesof 
|_| 
thinking from static concepts to fluid developments. In order 
to do this he first has to redefine the whole languageto 
= 
= 
replace our usual noun-name centered ideas with verb-action- | 
process emphasis. Most of the book is a long, head-wrenching 
reinterpretation of Western history, seen as the working out 
a 
of what Whyte calls the universal formative principle. But 
~_ 
where we are now represents a blocked, one-sided aspect of We 
this principle, hence the requirement of the development 
of 
4 
with now Whyte recognized in 1948, the value of the book _ 
is its display of a vast and essentially complete metaphysical — 
system that is in fact a philosophic program for the future. 
No longer available 
Cary James 
~ Mill Valley, Calif. 
“Anything which facilitates the development of characteristic 
— 
organic form is called proper to the organism.” p. 23 
“Fhe poverty of language in process concepts compels 
: 
unitary thought to use ‘process’ as both noun and adjective. 
— 
Formation, growth, development, destruction, decay, are 
< 
process concepts; god, idea, number, matter, energy, are 
ee 
static concepts lacking the asymmetry of the time sequence 
and implying permanence.” 
p. 27 
Bis 
“ ,.the one God was a jealous God. With the ideal of _ 
universality appeared intolerance.” 
p. 76 
“More comprehensive processes than those of the 
conscious mind control human destiny.” p. 118 
“The final elimination of the dualism can only 
come about through the realization that the need 
to formulate ideals, and in so doing split man 
asunder, is itself an expression of the very human 
but futile desire to escape the uncertainty of 
process and find spiritual security in the aim at 
least of a permanent harmony. Unitary man can 
achieve this realization, and see himself as a whole, 
because he is ready to accept his personal life for 
what it is, a transient development through changes 
be. 
which cannot be foreseen.”” p. 210-11. 
"s 
nbhin 
Se 
iach
fia 
ee 
ae 
ee 
My 
i 
