| Psychedelic Guide to the 
‘ 
| q 
ep eor of the Eucharist 
‘This i isa Raroughh, pu as well as an unusually thorough 
_ 
collection of details concerning the preparation of a number of 
hallucinogenic substances. 
There are an initial few pages that 
-editorialize on the legal and ethical aspects of, psychedelic drug 
usage (and some argument might be taken with the proposed dose 
4 meecreduies) but little fault can be found with the detailed recipes 
__and techniques that constitute the bulk of the book. 
There is 
_ provided the do-it-yourself details for everything from organic 
4 
gardening to organic synthesis. 
| On the botanical side of things, a number of comments are given 
concerning the growing of marijuana and its conversion to hashish 
\ or red oil. Far more unusual and interesting however are the 
ae 
for the setting up of appropriate fungal culture media 
for the surface growth of Psilocybe mycelia (for the production 
\a of the lysergic acid precursor to LSD). Also along the nature line, 
i 
in extreme detail. 
4 Within the synthetic preparation of various substances, there is some 
_ unevenness. 
The preparation directions for tetrahydrocannabinol 
(THC) are sketchy; the details for the formation of precursors such 
ie as olivetol are clear, but the final steps are presented in outline only. 
k, /t is doubtful that anyone without some chemical sophistication 
could successfully follow the procedures, and such a person would 
certainly have access to the original literature. 
The synthesis of 
mescaline, however, is described in adequate detail and several 
alternate processes are offered. 
The various indoles (psilocin, 
DMT and DET) are covered in good detail. Special note must be 
made of the section on LSD. 
The conversion of lysergic acid into 
LSD, and the final purification of the product, is given in exquisite 
detail. It is doubtful that such a thoroughly exacting account has 
ever previously been published. 
i 
rare 
Ree 
aS 
5 
| 
A number of references are made to the scientific literature that 
| 
will certainly help in filling out the missing fine points. Directions 
are at hand for the construction of a number of laboratory utensils, 
‘but these fall short of sufficient. 
The suggested modification of a 
_retrigerator will probably not lead to a vacuum pump adequate for 
the described preparation of red oil from crude marijuana extract. 
| 
Finally there are warnings and admonitions advanced to the reader 
|| 
such as the naming of chemicals that are on the federal watched 
| list. Of course, these chemicals to be avoided are to a large measure 
_ those that are required for the successful pursuit of the projects 
- described in the book. This paradox is recognized by the editor, 
_ who states: 
Ii 
“It must be clearly pointed out that many things throughout 
it 
ever break the law. 
Therefore, anyone attempting to pursue 
the course outlined herein (in countries where prohibited) 
19 
must be willing to shoulder the burden of persecution which 
Waa 
may fall upon him. Since the religious user and chemist are 
Wea 
unfortunately not immune to legal retribution, the editors 
ie 
sincerely hope that no one will be forced to martyr himself 
| 
for his incorrect use of this guide-book” 
1 AMI in all this is a charming book, pleasantly illustrated, that should 
a serve at least as an engaging conversation piece in most households. 
‘ 
ee 
cs 
Metacelsus 
© 
_ Psychedelic Guide to Preparation of the Eucharist 
| 
Robert. E. Brown 
|| 1968; 
60 pp. 
a $5.50 Postpaid 
||. from: 
eo 
Linga Sharira Incense Co. 
Box 4374 
Austin, Texas 78765 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
|, Preparation 2 
"Step I--Use Yellow Light 
Suspension cooled to about -20 degrees C in,a bath of acetone cooled 
38 dry ice. To the suspension is added a cold (-20 degrees) solution 
of 8.82 g of trifluroroacetic anhydride in 75ml of acetonitrile. The 
mixture is allowed to stand at -20 debrees for about 1% hours during 
which time the suspended material dissolves, and the d-lysergic acid 
‘is converted to the mixed anhydride of lysergic and trifluoroacetic 
| acids. The mixed anhyride can be separated in the form of an oil by 
evaporating the solvent in vacuo at a temperature below about 0 
| degrees. en yetnn: must be kept anydrous. 
" Step Il--Use Red Light 
The chloroform layer is removed and the aqueous portions are 
combined and in turn, washed with four 50m! portions of ice-cold 
_and evaporated in vacuo. 
of psilocybin) and Claviceps in submerged systems (for the production 
. the isolation of mescaline and other alkaloids from Peyote is described 
ed 
‘this manual have recently become unlawful and no one should 
5.36 g of d-lysergic acid are suspended in 125 ml of acetonitrile and the 
The solution of mixed anhydrides in acetontrile from Step | is added to 
_ 
150ml of acetonitrile containing 7.6 g of diethylamine. The mixture is 
held in the dark at room temperature for about 2 hours. The acetonitrile 
is evaporated in vacuo, leaving a residue of LSD-25 plus other impurities. 
The residue is dissolved in 150ml of choroform and 20m! of ice water. 
water. The chloroform solution is then dried over anhydrous NagSO4 
‘= More dope on p. 210 and p. 62. 
Psychedelic Review 
The Psychedelic Review /s back. /t had stopped publication 
for over a year but — like its godfather Tim Leary — it is 
alive and well in a new location. Once again it arises to fill 
the gap between the bio-chemical abstracts and the yellow 
journalism treatments of psychedelic experience. 
The review has been the place to look if you were seriously 
interested in drug usage, drug effects, drug theories, and 
drug-oriented art and poetry. 
The word psychedelic, once 
_ limited to drug-induced experience, now has expanded to 
. include other altered states. 
The review has expanded as 
well. The latest issue has articles on the world of spirits, 
the use of pot in curbing alcoholism, LSD as preparation 
for death, and a multi-faceted view of Tim Leary’s present 
position. Leary, Baba Ram Dass, and Leary’s lawyer 
contribute ideas and reflections. 
The Psychedelic Review is the only journal to treat the 
literary, the scientific, and the spiritual aspects of psyche- 
delic experience equally well. Its return is good news. 
[Reviewed by James A. Fadiman] 
The Faychedchic Review 
from: 
Robert 
Mogas, ed. 
The. Psychedelic Review 
$7.50/ year (quarterly) 
Defunct 
By an extraordinary series of circumstances a confirmation 
appears to have been found for one of Emanuel Swedenborg’s 
more 
~unusual doctrines — that man’s life depends on his relation- 
ship to a hierarchy of spirits: Out of my professional role as a 
clinical psychologist in a state mental hospital and my own personal 
interest, | set out to describe as faithfully as possible mental 
patients’ experiences of hallucinations. A discovery four years ago 
helped me to get a relatively rich and consistent picture of the 
patients’ experience. Though | noticed similarities with: 
Swedenborg’s description of the relationships of man to spirits it 
was only three years after all the major findings on hallucinations 
had been made that the striking similarity between what Twentieth- 
BEBRBR RRR RBERSPERBRERRRSRRReeeeeeees 
Hemp 
Hard work, but we must get there too. Also we must 
stop being such heads and learn the art of the follow- 
through. “Where were you? Why weren't you: there? Why 
were you so late? Why didn’t you finish it? Why don’t 
you remember?”’ Hemp is a tool, not a separate universe. 
Ro-non-so-te 
BEBE B BRB RBRBRRBRBBRBRBRBRBRBSRBKRRERBRBRBBKRESHEE 
Marijuana Review 
| See Epilog, pegs 497 
Good current information on pot, especially towards its 
legalization. Research, reform, news. 
—SB 
from: 
Amorphia 
Box 744 
Mill Valley, CA 94941 
Marijuana Review 
Michael Aldrich, ed. 
$1 per issue; or $3/4 issues 
STASH 
Means Students Association for the Study of Hallucinogens, 
Very thorough, sometimes academic, information on drugs. 
STASH Press 
—SB 
118 S, Bedford 
Madison, Wisconsin 53703 
When the British government was investigating the effects of 
marijuana on the Indian populace in the 1890's, they conducted 
a series of biological experiments with monkeys. One animal was 
trained to smoke a combination of marijuana and Datura and was 
allowed to continue this practice for a number of months. The 
monkey was then sacrificed and the autopsy revealed abnormally 
soft cerebral matter, while the other parts of the brain were in 
various stages of decomposition. None of these effects were seen 
in those monkeys trained to smoke only marijuana, and the doctors 
concluded that Datura, when used over a prolonged period of time, 
can directly cause organic brain damage. 
It seems a sad commentary on the state of the present ‘’psychedelic 
subculture” that the very practices of the establishment which are 
criticized as hypocritical (a lack of “truth in packaging’ and the 
slick merchandizing techniques of Madison Avenue) are the same 
practices employed by the purveyors of our chemical sacraments. 
When television sells Middle America an electric toothbrush, it 
does not sell the toothbrush, but an entire way of living (of which 
the toothbrush is but one small component). 
!n much the same 
manner the dealer who offers his clientele a plethora of “‘mind- 
altering goodies” (from 4-way ‘‘sunshines”’ to speckled psilocybin 
“‘oumpkin seeds’) performs as much a disservice to the ‘’contra- 
culture.’’ Unwary and inexperienced buyers are being led to 
believe that if they haven't been ‘‘stoned”’ with Dealer X’s acid, 
then they've never been “‘stoned.’’ A mind washed in one dealer's 
mescaline is purported to be “’whiter than white’’ while the head 
. 
of the unfortunate user of brand X seems to display the same 
ald discouraging collar stains. ‘New’ and “improved” 
preparations are being hawked with all the fervor of the quack. who 
sells us Anacin®on the tube. 
Scores of underground chemists who have discovered that the 
Life magazine claim that anyone who received a B in high school 
chemistry can make good, pure LSD is a myth, have compensated 
by spiking their concoctions with everything from amphetamines 
to belladonna alkaloids. The powerful financial incentives 
associated with the manufacture and sale of illicit psychedelics have, 
unfortunately, attracted the same types of unscrupulous merchan- 
dizers who have grown rich convincing us to buy cars that are’ 
unsafe, diet drinks that cause cancer and a frightening variety of 
status symbols that are of no human use. As a result, many of 
the “freaks’’ who have gotten involved with the psychedelic scene 
in the past few years may have never hada real LSD experience. 
It is not difficult to comprehend the increasing cynicism of the 
“flower children’ as they are manipulated and possibly even 
poisoned by people taking advantage of their implicit trust in others. 
PSYCHEDELIC 
Mago 
daadale 
number 11 
Century patients describe and Swedenborg’s Eighteenth-Century 
accounts became apparent to me. 
| then collected as many details 
as possible of his description. 
| found that Swedenborg’s system not 
only is an almost perfect fit with patients’ experiences, but even 
more impressively, accounts for otherwise quite puzzling aspects of 
hallucinations. 
| will first describe how | worked and my findings, 
and then relate this to Swedenborg’s work. 
It would appear that for selected alcoholics the substitution of 
smoked cannabis for alcohol may be of marked rehabilitative value. 
The drug effect of cannabis, as compared with alcohol, while having 
a sense of euphoria and detachment in common, lacks-any other 
similarity except the intent for which it is taken. Excessive alcohol 
use produces a predictable weakening and dissolution of various 
superego and ego functions, whereas cannabis does not seem to 
have this attribute, providing, if anything, an increase in ego 
strength. Because cannabis does not facilitate ego alien behavior as 
seen with alcoholic excess, a great burden of guilt if removed, thus 
freeing the individual for more constructive pursuits. 
The fact that cannabis did not produce symptoms of irritability 
upon withdrawal, nor effects on the gastrointestinal tract, as com- 
pared with alcohol, also assists in the rehabilitation of the individual. 
Since he is not physically sick any more, he is thus free to begin 
resocialization with the expansion of his consciousness to perceive 
the subtleties of the world beyond his needs for immediate gratifica- 
tion or succor. 
Certainly cannabis is not a panacea, but it warrants 
further. clinical trial in selected cases of alcoholism. 
DOSAGE BY WEIGHT 
Light High Experienced Normal 
User 
20-50 jig 100-200 pug 
1 mg 
2.5.mg 
5 mg 
10 mg 
DMT 
5-10 mg 
20-30 mg 
First 
Maximum 
Psychedelic 
safe dose 
300 pug 400-800 ug 
1000-3000 jug 
5 mg 
10 mg 
20 mg 
22 mg 
35 mg 
50 mg 
40 mg 
50-60 mg 
100 mg 
Psilocyn 
5-10 mg 
20-30mg 
35mg 
40-60 mg 
150 mg 
Mescaline 50-200 mg 300-500 mg 400 mg 600-800 mg 
1000 mg 
The very light doses only give a feeling of well-being and seldom 
cause much hallucination. The experienced user can achieve the 
psychedelic effect with less of a dose, grading off to no drug at all. 
A person trying to experience the full psychedelic effect for the 
first time needs to be disconnected much more fully, therefore the 
larger dose. The largest doses cause a complete break with reality 
that few can handle pleasantly. The slight toxic side effects are not 
a major factor in considering the dosage because the hallucinogenic 
effects are so much more overwhelming at those high doses that 
other factors are minimized. The crude natural substances are not 
listed here because the amount of drug available does not follow any 
reliable weight percentage as the quality of these substances is not 
at all constant. 
Drug 
LSD 
THC 
STP 
SUNDAY: THE MINE 
Walking, body jolting, downhill. 
It’s Sunday morning now and 
D.R. is on his way to explore the old abandoned coal mine he'd 
freaked out in his first day back at Trace Fork. 
It’s been on his 
mind for several days to do it, to crawl back in with a light of some 
kind and get a real look at that place. He has passed the ruins of the 
tipple every time he has gone in or out of the hollow; but until this 
morning he has always been on some specific errand or other, and 
there has been no chance to stop and look around. 
But it’s Sunday now, his day of rest and leisure. 
D.R. stept till 
almost ten, fixed himself some eggs and fried a slice of green tomato 
for breakfast, and now at about the hour the other people of the 
community are gathering for Sunday worship at the church, D.R. 
has set out from the house with this very special destination in 
mind. 
There were other things in D.R.’s mind too as he jolted down 
the hill, but they were bouncing around in such a chaos of broken 
images he wasn’t paying them much attention. 
Pictures of the day 
before with Leonard, working, were vivid, and entirely pleasant to 
see: 
Leonard wiping sweat off his face, and grinning; the way the 
long one-by-sixes formed angles with the upright posts; and then an 
image of the finished pen itself, a space enclosed; all of those were 
> 
pleasant scenes to see. But they flashed and flickered and jumped 
around so fast D.R. couldn't hold to any single one long enough to 
bring it into focus. 
Shots from further in the past than yesterday were mixed in too. 
He caught a glimpse of himself walking out of Trace Fork years ago, 
a child among a group of people on their way to church on Sunday 
morning. 
And then he saw Estelle lying on her back on that big rock where 
they’d made love that time, by the river. 
He heard the sound that cars make when they pass real fast, that 
sudden whooshing of the wind, and he caught a glimpse of cactus 
by the roadside on some desert he had travelled in a car. oS 
1 
Dope 
Learning 
