Earth for Homes 
Handbook for Building Homes of Earth 
these two together give all the grit on the subject. 
practical, non-historical (here’s how pithecantropus 
did it) get out and do big mudpies approach. 
a lump of clay, 
live with it. 
Earth For Homes: Ideas and Methods Exchange PB 188918 
$3.00 postpaid 
from: 
Superintendant of Documents 
Government Printing Office 
Washington, 
D.C. 20402 
Handbook for Building Homes of Earth PB 179 327 
$3.00 postpaid 
from: 
Superintendent of Documents 
Government Printing Office 
Washington, D.C. 20402 
OUT OF PRINT 
PLAN 
er CORNER 
Corner and Straight Wall Forms for Rammed Earth, 
See Epilog, page 515 
Cinva-Ram Block Press 
As you probably know, this machine is manufactured in 
Bogota,Columbia, by Metalibec Ltda. We are handling the 
complete importation of this unit into the United States 
and pay all.the importation charges, such as customs duties, 
ocean freight and marine insurance, plus forwarding fees 
and handling charges. 
Our selling price for this CISVA-RAM press is $US 175.00, 
F.O.B. our warehouse, Akron, Ohio. The freight charges 
from our warehouse to ultimate destination will be ona 
“freight collect” basis. The press comes equipped with 
three wooden inserts to produce different types of blocks 
and tiles, plus an operations manual. The unit weighs 140 Ibs. 
net, 155 Ibs. gross (crated for shipment) and has a gross 
cubic measurement of 3.05 cubic feet each. With the cost of 
importation, freight, insurance, customs duties and handling 
charges which we must pay in bringing these presses into 
the United States, we are unable to extend any discounts of 
any kind for the CINVA-RAM block press. 
Shipment can be made immediately upon receipt of your 
Purchase Order, together with your check or money order 
payable to Bellows—Valvair. Please address your order to: 
Bellows-Valvair 
200 W. Exchange Street 
Akron, Ohio 44309 
| built two houses here using CINVA—RAM——where the owners 
made the bricks using my machine. Both buildings were a success 
and the machine certainly has its place. 
However, | cannot afford to produce the block because of the big 
labor factor: 
it is only economical for owner-builder construction. 
(Which is great!) 
| still prefer the monolithic wall, and use a Magdiel 
form and soil-cement mixture. 
All this info can be found in the 
2 chapters of my. book (Owner-Built Home, p. 94). 
Sincerely, 
Ken Kern 
How.to Dig a Dome 
Our first dome is almost completed. Name Rana Grande from the 
arched windows that weere thought to look like frog eyes. Tomorrow 
we finish off the first third of the pur and then decorate the dirt 
dome. Wednesday we expect to carve the mound. Weds afternoon 
to the vigil. Thursday we finish Rana Grande & let it cure for the 
grand excavation & dedication Saturday. 
The dome of Fiana Grande is 12 ft In diametrr & 9ft high. 
It is 
more or less a hemeshere with the front sliced off. (Dont worry 
about the spelling. 
| know how to spell but this typewriter doesn’t 
& | dont give 
adamn.) 
It isa mound of earth upon which we are 
puring a 6 to 4 inch shell of cement. Saturday we will excavate 
the dirt mound and reveal the completed room. 
It has a fireplace 
poured at the same time. 
: 
: 
This dome method should have real applicability to the alternative 
community because it is cheap, artistic, organic, romantic, practical. 
This one is taking fifteen sacks sement @ 1.50, 10 tons concrete mix 
@$2, & 15$ worth of reinforcing bars, screen door (from the dump, 
and window $5. Total about $65. 
Another advantage is that there are no skills needed. See one and 
build one. Simple. You dont even have to be artistic. Tools 
needed are shovel, wire pleirs (for wiring reinforcing bar together),. 
Concrete mixer not, strictly, required. Do it (mixing) ina box. So 
the other tool you'd need would be a concrete mixer or hoe with 
mixing box. 
Our domes are built into the side of a hill. Much of the structure 
will be below grade level when finished. Some of excavated dirt 
/ 
to be used to form a terrace in front. 
See diagrams for more explanation. 
Virgil Byxbe 
Sweets Mill, CA 
4 
Dirt from X(cavation) is thrown on top of hill to finish off dome. 
The mound is formed partly by excavating a ditch away froma 
central circle & partly by thowing the excavated material on top. 
1.-The COVER. A rectangle of metal. 
joined to the box by two movable’ rods 
at the side to allow it to slide open and 
to close. Above it are two brackets to 
house one of the upper shafts of the 
lever's connecting rods, 
2. 
The LEVER. 
Consists of a set of 
connecting 
rods. 
operated 
by hand, 
which set the piston in motion. 
3. The BOX. 
A metal mould supported 
by four angular iron legs, constituting 
the frame of the whole mechanism. 
4. ThePISTON. 
Consists of a cylinder 
guided between two adjustable angles 
and ending in a réctangular plate which 
serves as a compression plunger. To this 
plate 1s screwed a piece of wood, the 
function of which |s to stamp the blocks, 
If solid blocks are wanted. 
the wooden 
piece can be taken off by removing the 
screws and filling the holes left !in the 
plate with small screws. 
A. 
SCREWS. 
FOR 
LOOSENING 
THE 
PISTON GUIDES. 
Are used to loosen 
the oiston if it fits too tightly between 
the guides. or vice versa. 
Fig. 36 
CINVA-RAM moulder for the production of so1i-cement blocks: explanatory sketch. 
. Soil-Cement—Its Use in Building 
-- 
" 
- 
A well-detailed booklet on the stabilization of earth with 
cement, and describes all aspects of using the Cinva-Ram 
earth moulder. 
: 
—Lloyd Kahn 
Soil-Cement—Its Use in Building 
1964; 87 pp., 93 illustrations 
$3 50 _postpaid 
7 
from: 
United Nations 
Sales Section 
New York, New York 10017 
FORMS IN WHICH SCIL IS USED: 
Soil is used in construction in the following forms: 
: 
(a) In the form of rubble, cut from the surface of the earth, in pieces 
or blocks of soil. 
(b) As bricks, made in wooden forms or molds with soil moistened 
to the required degree. 
(c) Moistened soil compacted in situ in suitable rigid frames to form 
monolithic walling (rammed earth). 
(d) As stabilized soil, by combining it with an agent in order to 
improve its constructive properties. 
Soil-cement roofing 
- 
If it is desired to use soil-cement as roofing for a house, the following 
methods may be used: 
(a) laths or reeds are laid on the roof truss or 
joists and nailed down; a plastic mortar of cement and (sandy) soil in 
the proportions of 1:7 by volume, with vegetable fibres 3 cm in 
length added as a reinforcement in the proportion of one part to four 
parts of mortar, is spread over the laths or reeds. The layer of mortar 
should be 3 cm deep, duly compacted, and its surface should be 
smoothed with a trowel: After the material has had time to dry and 
harden, two or three coats of bituminous material are brushed over 
the surface in order to make the roofing waterproof. 
Slow, Heavy, and Sweaty 
First off, thanks for a lovely review of my book, Stone Shelters in 
Spring, 1970. It’s had other flattering reviews, but your anonymous 
reviewer read it and understood 
it, which was not true of some of 
the others.. 
You even picked the absolutely best passages to quote. 
Seems i must have a brother out there someplace. 
Secondly, I am probably one of only a handful of your readers who 
have actually built earth houses. (Mine was in Orinda, Cal, 1963). 
I have some words of caution about building with dirt: 
Le 
It’s more work than with any other material, bar none. It’s 
slow, heavy, and sweaty. 
You move tons of 
stuff every day 
to make a few square feet of wall. 
Ye 
Rammed earth and adobe are the most work. They make 
good walls, but not roof structure, so you don’t save very 
much money. Not usually worth it, unless you happen 
to like the solidity of those big, thick walls. 
3. 
Earth is great in warm climates, but in any moderate or 
cold climate itll give you the rheumatism by thanksgiving 
time. 
4. 
I built.using an African technique that lets you build 
domes and vaults without formwork. Thus the whole 
house, roof and all, is dirt, and that’s cheap (about $1/square 
foot for materials). None of your references cover this 
sort of thing. Two troubles remain, however: 
a) It still breaks your back and takes forever. 
b) This type of construction shrinks and cracks a lot more 
than adobe or rammed earth——a real problem. 
a 
a 
Edward Allen 
a 
Wellesley, Massachusetts 
Pes 
rei 
@ 
BRE RERRRERRERRRERRERPRPRRERRRERBBesee. 
For Stone Houses 
| read the letter about rocks for building purposes [p. 21 in the March 
Catalog]. 1’m a geology major, and think | can help alittle. 
First, he says the land is covered with volcanic rocks. These will fall 
into, three types: 
1. Dark, heavy, fine grained basalt. 
2. Glassy massive obsidian, various colors. 
3. Light weight cellular pumice or scoria. 
Of these three, the basalt is the best for building. 
It’s tough, very hard, 
and weathers slowly. The obsidian is essentially glass, and though 
stronger than steel, it is easily broken. It is strong enough to build 
with, but may be too non-porous and smooth to mortar together. 
It 
also weathers slowly. The pumice and scoria is no good for uses re- 
quiring standing weight, such as a wall. However, it will make an ex- 
cellent insulator for hollow walls or sub floor fill. 
If the rocks are of many different types, you will have to examine each 
type for three necessary characteristics: 
1. It should be hard and heavy. 
2. \t should be fine grained. 
3. It should not weather appreciably. 
- To check weathering, break the rock and match the fresh surface to the 
old surface, Only a slightly faded appearance on the old surface is per- 
missable. A different color on the outside as compared to the inside 
is indicative of severe chemical weathering. Also check the hardness 
of the weathered surface. If it is flaky or crumbly, it’s no good. 
Also check the well rounded rocks in any stream beds which may 
be on the property. These rocks are often the most resistant and hardest 
Roy. L. Porter 
Virginia Beach, Virginia 
e
ee
~ 
<i
oh 
