No sweet romance here. Written mainly for teachers & 
| mainly about children suffering from various forms of 
')| weirdness, it speaks to us all. Peculiar & powerful. 
| Refreshingly skipping the theory in this book, he tells 
| you what to do to make kids act better. Simple. Far 
out. Offensive! / ain’t sure why, but | do think everyone 
| should read it; in fact | downright ache for revolution in 
| our schools, he makes it seem so possible, and because 
_ 
| remember all those thousands of hours that | spent 
in grade school watching the clock, waiting for recess 
or lunch or to go home. 
Waiting: 
for anything but school. 
My teachers could easily have ridden with Jesse James 
for all the time they stole from me. 
: 
Richard Brautigan 
Rommel Drives on Deep Into Egypt 
[Reviewed by Diana Shugart. 
Suggested by George von Hilsheimer] 
42 
| Understanding Young People in Trouble 
George von Hilsheimer 
1970; 272 pp. 
$4.50 Postpaid 
from: 
| Acropolis Books 
/ Colortone Building 
| 
2400 17th Street, N.W. 
|| Washington, D.C. 20009 
. 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Humanitas Curriculum 
|| School stuff from George von Hilsheimer’s school. Modern 
| Reading (a sure-learn primer or money back — $25). How Many? 
| Math primer, $1.80). 
First Abacus ($1.25, and abacus $10). And 
a remarkable line of pamphlets on such subjects as “Eliminating 
The Smoking Habit’, “The Self-Regulating Child”, “How to Run 
| an Effective Conference”’, etc. 
from: 
| Humanitas Curriculum = 
A Division of Green Valley School, Inc. 
) P.O. Box 606 
A 
cliaws SYSTEMS 
Orange City, Florida 32763 
See Epilog, pages 720-721. 
The Lives of Children 
For some months, when speaking to teachers or to anyone 
else concerned with education, | have said that while there 
' were many recently published books on education (my own 
among them) that | thought they should read, if they felt 
It is by far the most perceptive, moving, and important 
book on education that | have ever read, or indeed ever 
| expect to. For while | hope that in years to come we may 
learn much about human growth and development that we 
do not now know, | doubt that any one book will advance 
our understanding as much as this one. 
| [t describes the lives of twenty-three children in the small 
private school in New York in which Dennison taught, 
and which has since been disbanded. They were black, 
white, and Puerto Rican in equal proportions. All were 
) poor, half were on welfare, and about half “had come to 
us from the public schools with severe learning and 
behavior problems.” 
... This school, spending no more 
‘money per pupil than the city’s publie schools, did not fail. 
The children got well, grew, learned. 
YSuggested and reviewed by John Holt. 
This review is 
excerpted, at John Holt’s request, from his review in 
Oct 9N. Y. Review of Books./ 
The Lives of Children 
: 
: 
h 
ee 
veto 
$1.95 a 
ren 
~ from: 
Random House, Inc. 
_ 
Westminster, Md. 21157 
child 
George Dennison 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
| they had time for only one it should be The Lives of Children. 
There is very good evidence that reducing the pressures on childish 
and adolescent offenders reduces the incidence of their failures. 
For example, kids who drop out of school are arrested more often 
while they are in school. Dropouts do not commit more crimes 
than kids who remain in school. There are more juvenile crimes 
committed on school nights than on weekends. The evidence 
indicates that the successful middle class child who also commits 
crimes carries out much more destructive and serious offenses 
than dropouts and lower class offenders. 
© 
An ideal elementary classroom has at least two teachers, and often 
involves as many as ten at one time (by teachers of course | mean 
volunteers, aides and ‘‘real’’ teachers——all used to advance the 
transactions of learning and not just for janitorial, nursing and 
secretarial tasks). The number of students can be more than thirty 
or so. The room should be large and ideally has an easily accessible 
half-second-story for reading and solitary quiet study or withdrawal 
for sleep or sloth. 
(‘‘ll dolce fariente’’——sweet do nothing, is 
really useful in the class.) The main room is organized with formal 
foci——messy corners, neat book corners, production corners and 
display corners. A separated or semi-separated area for noisy, 
messy corners, neat book corners, production corners and display 
corners. A separated or semi-separated area for noisy, messy, 
destructive and constructive shop work, biology or what have you 
is also ideal. 
- 
, 
e 
We have been impressed by the almost total inability of troubling 
adolescents to express or accept positive emotions. We have been 
amazed to see how’seldom such children touch themselves or 
others, at how little physical flexibility even the best of them have, 
at how limited is their ability at nonverbal kinetic communication, 
how poor their mimetic ability, and how congested their emotions. 
We are often sent children with histories indicating many rage 
experiences. We never see this behavior more than once or twice at 
our centers (probably because we simply restrain and ignore it in a 
very blunt and matter of fact way) and the few initiating times we 
do see it, it appears to us much more as display and histrionics than 
emotional expression. 
... 
We believe that touching is so important that we actually run a 
“‘love-up’’ rota of staff in our elementary residential programs. 
Even the most wooden staff member is received with delight. 
Each child is tickled, rubbed, fondled, patted and kissed good- 
night with special words of affection and joy. | am always impressed 
at the willingness of otherwise tough and aloof teenage criminals to 
accept this ‘‘baby” treatment. 
Our experience is sufficiently con- 
vincing that we persist in touching those teenagers who strongly 
reject touching. The weaker staff is not encouraged to take on 
these kids but strong staff members will tease and ridicule the 
aloofness and pursue and persist in touching. 
The important principle is to bring new experiences, or present old 
experiences from a new angle. Don’t wall them in with words by 
talking about the experience, analyzing, or introducing. Encourage 
the children to talk, talk, talk, describe, describe, write, write, write 
after the experience. Don’t grade the productions. What you are 
trying to teach is responsiveness, transaction with the environment, 
observation analysis, reportage. Accuracy, style and grammar will 
come. Very quickly too. 
... [the children’s] self interest will lead them into positive 
relations with the natural authority of adults, and this is 
much to be desired, for natural authority is a far cry from 
authority that is merely arbitrary. 
Its attributes are obvious: 
adults are larger, are experienced, possess more words, have 
entered into prior agreements among themselves. 
. 
. 
. 
When all this takes on a positive instead of a merely negative 
character, the children see the adults as protectors and as sources 
of certitude, approval, novelty, skills. 
In the fact that adults 
have entered into prior agreements, children intuit a seriousness 
and a web of relations in the life that surrounds them. ... These 
two things, taken together—the natural authority of adults and 
the needs of children—are the great reservoir of the organic 
structuring that comes into being when arbitrary rules of order 
are dispensed with. 
Here we come to one of the really damaging myths of education, 
namely, that learning is the result of teaching, that the progress 
of the child bears a direct relation to methods of instruction and 
the internal relationships of curriculum... To cite these as the 
effective causes of learning is. wrong. The causes are in the child. 
When we consider the powers of mind of a healthy eight-year-old 
—the avidity of the senses, the finesse and energy of observation, 
the effortless concentration, the voracious memory—we realise 
immediately that these powers possess true magnitude in the 
general scale of things. ... Why is it, then, that so many children 
fail? Let me put it bluntly; it is because our system of public 
education is a horrendous, life-destroying mess. 
There is no such thing as learning (as Dewey tells us) except in 
the continuum of experience. But this continuum cannot survive 
in the classroom unless there is reality of encounter between the 
adults and the children. The teachers must be themselves, not 
play roles. They must teach the child, and not teach “subjects.” 
... The continuum of experience and reality of encounter are 
destroyed in the public schools (and most private ones) by the 
very methods which form the institution itself... 
Difficult children can be induced to enjoy Basic English by giving 
them something pompously moralistic to translate; or first show 
them a translation of some pompous moralizing, then give them 
another to have a go at. Translating the ideas of politicians and 
educational philosophers is always great fun. 
Conditioned Acceleration of Responses by Relief of Aversion 
(CARRA). We use CARRA with a simple electric stimulator. 
We tell the pupil that we are going to turn on a mild tingle and 
then increase it. We will turn it off when the pupil makes a new 
response to the category we are asking for. Forexample: 
“‘I 
want you to tell me something you might say to your mother 
when you wake up in the morning. Each time tell me something 
different.” 
When we get a response that is not a repetition we immediately 
turn the current off. It can be done without electric stimulation 
but no one seems to mind very much and it works a great deal 
more quickly. 
For many kids, switching on a red light seems to 
work just as well (inward kids who are quiet, with downcast 
eyes, and sullen kids mostly). For others, simply driving an answer 
with verbal encouragement and direction will work. The advantage 
of electric reinforcement is that it is simple, matter of fact, unavoid- 
able, and does not require verbal skill on the part of the teacher or 
aide. Also we seem to build up a tolerance for electric stimulation 
which in general seems to correlate quite well with general stability 
in the nervous system. 
In addition, the conditioning model is more 
precise and we seem to get a spill-over of conditioning for anxiety 
relief and a sense of being in control of the anxiety-producing 
stimulus. 
The routine goes only about five minutes and any category is stopped 
as soon as it becomes a bit sticky, for the student to think of some- 
thing new. We are not trying to punish the child or test him. 
e 
Charles Stack has been having Puerto Rican janitors (preferably 
with little or no English) bring teaching machines into cells with 
young criminals. The janitor gets it across that the machine is 
supposed to teach the kids. 
He also gets it across that since it is 
the machine’s job to teach, if the kid makes a mistake the machine 
will give him a dime for having wasted his time. 
Nearly everyone rubs their eyes at this point. The machine gwes 
the student a dime if the student makes a mistake because the 
machine has not done its job and taught him. These young criminals 
do not work to make mistakes or to make dimes. No one has to 
con these kids into the advantages of knowing. They do quite well 
for themselves if the social consequences and structures of the 
teaching process are changed. Many of these hoods work for hours 
at a time on the machines and graduate from jail to college. 
2 
Making the Human Garden Work 
BIOLOGICAL inventory and regulation. 
It is stupid if not immoral 
to fail 
a hypoglycemic patient by not regulating his glucose supply. 
His brain had better be able to function before we offer him the 
choice of setting his own bedtime, regulating his own diet or 
learning how to read. A remedial diet often tells the whole story. 
BOUNDARIES that are firm, clear, consistent and real. The child 
knows what and whom he can depend upon. 
It really doesn’t seem 
to matter very much if the boundaries are actually fair, although it 
is nicer if they are. Sometimes, as the farmer said, a muleheaded 
client requires an attention-getting device like a two-by-four 
applied suddenly between the eyes. Tough, honest language often 
does it. After gaining his attention we give him a list of things to do, 
and we say, ‘‘Choose one.” (At last analysis about ten per cent of 
our students were mules.) 
TIME to relax, regularize, recuperate. The patient is almost cer- 
tainly under chronic high arousal, has difficulty sleeping, is quick 
to startle, overreacts and has a badly regulated metabolism. 
A good deal of doing nothing is often the first prescription. 
GOOD SLEEP. 
COMPETENT people who are warm, touching, friendly. 
Everything else is aesthetics. 
Jose’s reading problem is Jose. Or to put it another way, there is no 
such thing as a reading problem. Jose hates books, schools, and 
teachers, and among a hundred other insufficiencies——all of a piece 
——he cannot read. 
Is this a reading problem? 
A reading problem, in short, is not a fact of life, but a fact of school 
administration. 
It does not describe Jose, but describes the action 
performed by the school, i.e., the,action of ignoring every thing 
about Jose except his response to printed letters. 
My own demands were an important part of Jose’s experience. They 
were not simply the demands of a teacher, nor of an adult, but be- 
longed to my own way of caring about Jose. And he sensed this. 
There was something he prized in the fact that | made demands on 
him. This became all the more evident once he realized that | wasn't 
simply processing him, that is, grading, measuring, etc. And when he 
learned. that he could refuse——could refuse altogether, could terminate 
the lesson, could change its direction, could insist on something.else 
. 
.. we became collaborators in the business of life. 
.. 
. It boils 
. down to this .. 
. we adults are entitled to demand 
much of our children... The children are entitled 
to demand that they be treated as individuals, since 
that is what they are. 
WATERING 
Outside D.R. snapped his fingers and said, “Shit, Leonard. 
I've 
got to water the rabbits first.” 
Leonard looked pained. ‘‘Didn‘t you water ‘em last night?” 
D.R. shook his head. ‘’They all still had some water in their 
crocks. | fed ‘em. | thought I’d water ‘em this morning.” 
; 
Leonard was plainly pissed off, but all he said was, “Always 
water your stock at night, son. Don’t put that kind of thing off.” 
Working together, D.R. carrying the bucket and Leonard dipping, 
they filled the crocks in all eleven hutches in ten minutes and then 
ent on down the hill to Leonard's house for breakfast. 
395 
Teaching 
Learning 
# 
\ 
i.
