oc 
* 
a 
43 
* 
Eye and Brain 
/ can’t think of another book as well-made as this one. 
It is 
well designed, illustrated, and diagrammed. 
The writing is 
excellent, the subject matter important and new. 
The book 
is inexpensive. Altogether Eye and Brain /ets you see how 
crappy most books are. 
—SB 
Eye and Brain— The Psychology of Seeing 
R. L. Gregory 
1966; 254 pp. 
R.L. Gregory 
Unversity 
$2.45 postpaid 
Eye and Brain 
Library 
from: 
the psychology 
((\\\ 
of seeing 
McGraw-Hill Book Company 
WY 
Princeton Road 
Hightstown, N.J. 08520 
Manchester Road 
Manchester, Missouri 63062 
8171 Redwood Highway 
Novato, CA 94947 
$2.45 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
|. 
y} | 
See Epilog, page 742 
Stratton went on to perform other experiments which though less 
well-known are just as interesting. 
He devised a mirror arrangement 
which, mounted in a harness, visually displaced his own body, so that 
it appeared horizontally in front of him, and at the height of his own 
eyes. Stratton wore this mirror arrangement for three days (about 
twenty-four hours of vision) and he reported: 
“| had the feeling that | was mentally outside my own body. 
It was, of course, but a passing impression, but it came 
several times and was vivid while it lasted. 
. .But the moment 
critical interest arose, the simplicity of the state was gone, and 
my visible actions were accompanied by a kind of wraith of 
themselves in the older visual terms. 
Why should the perceptual system be as active in seeking alternative 
solutions as we see it to be in ambiguous situations? 
Indeed it seems 
more active, and more intellectually honest in refusing to stick with 
one of many possible solutions, then in the cerebral cortex as a 
whole if we may judge by the tenacity of irrational belief in 
politics or religion. The perceptual system has been of biological 
significance for far longer than the calculating intellect. The regions 
of the cerebral cortex concerned with thought are comparatively 
juvenile. They are self-opinionated by comparison with the ancient 
striate area responsible for vision. 
television 
signal 
television camera 
An elaboration of the television technique makes it possible to 
displace retinal images not only in space, but in time. Temporal 
delay of images is a new kind of displacement, and promises to be of 
the greatest importance. The method is to use a TV camera and 
monitor, with an endless tape loop so. that there is a time-delay 
between the recording from the camera and the playback to the 
monitor. The subject thus sees his hands (or any other object) in 
the past; the delay being set by the gap between the Record and 
Play-back heads. 
This situation is not only of theorétical interest, but is also of 
practical importance because controls used in flying aircraft, and 
operating many kinds of machine, have a delay in their action: 
if 
such delay upsets the skill, this could be a serious matter. 
It was 
found that a short delay (about 0-5 seconds) made movements. jerky 
and ill co-ordinated, so that drawing became almost impossible, and 
writing quite difficult. 
Practice gives little or no improvement. 
Held found that only the active kitten developed perception, the 
passive animal remaining effectively blind. He thus suggested that 
active touch is essential to perceptual development. 
Brain Storms 
Dr. Barker presents a fascinating argument that epileptic 
fits and fits of creativity are very closely related and both 
are brought on by unusual threats to continuity in brain 
function, requiring a massive “storm” 
of re-organization 
in the brain. 
The fit isan attempt to in fact fit together 
incompatible considerations which have collided. 
| believe 
it, in part because Barker makes his case so well, in part 
because it sounds like what I’ve experienced. 
—SB 
A fit, even the grossest major convulsive fit of epilepsy, is many 
things happening at once. 
Fits are patterns of awareness and action, 
combinations of knowing, feeling, and doing. They are episodes 
of behavior and experience put together by the brain during 
crises in the continuity of living. 
Such crises are characterized by 
a sudden coming together of a complex of conflicting and disparate 
ideas, images, and impulses; fits are syntheses of such complexes 
that both resolve and represent their otherwise unthinkable 
contradictions and ambiguities. By providing more or less fitting 
resolutions of crises, fits serve to maintain or restore the crisis- 
disrupted continuity of transactions between organism and environ- 
ment. 
184 The Concepts of Dysjunctive Situations 
An “experiment arranged by life’ 
Vale ist Ngab ok 
whee 
Sense 
Communications 
SPONTANEITY i 
Brain Storms— A Study of Human Spontaneity 
Wayne Barker, M. D. 
1968; 277 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
Grove Press, Inc. 
53 East 11th Street 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Wi. at we need is to let the fitting-together capacity of the human 
brain operate at least occasionally in freedom from the narrow, 
provincial, egoistic concerns of “‘I’’ and ‘’Us.”’ The essence of 
our contemporary crisis is simple: Most people in the world want 
to have modestly human food, shelter, and an opportunity to care 
decently for their children. The technological and material means 
for satisfaction of these wants exist. Not much of a ‘’dream”’ is 
required to get it done. No longer will any conventional evasion or 
caricatured “solution” suffice. The only possible outcomes now 
are convulsive or creative. 
It all depends upon our commitment. 
The Intelligent Eye 
R. L. Gregory continues, this tine with a book rich in visual 
illusions which suck the reader (viewer) into many 
a flickering 
illuminating trap. The thesis is that visual imagery is made 
intelligible by the eye itself. 3-D glass included with the book. 
—SB 
The bate tion Eye 
Richard L. 
Gregory 
1970, 191 pp. 
* 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
McGraw-Hill Book Company 
330 W. 42nd St. 
New York, N.Y. 10036 
2. This is seen sometimes as a 
face, sometimes as something 
else. Perception fluctuates 
between two clearly defined 
possibilities. This is an example 
of visual ‘reversal’, by the Danish 
psychologist, Edgar Rubin. 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Retinal images are patterns in the eye— patterns made up of light and 
dark shapes and areas of colour— but we do not see patterns, we see 
objects. We read from pictures in the eye the presence of external 
objects: how this is achieved is the problem of perception. Objects 
appear separate, distinct; and yet as pictures on the retina they may 
have no clear boundaries. 
In this photograph of a spotted dog, most 
half-tones have been lost (as in vision by moonlight) and yet we can 
distinguish the spots making up the dog from similar spots of the 
background. To make this possible there must be stored information 
in the brain, of dogs and thousands of other objects. 
. 
.. if we can endure confrontation with the unthinkable, we may be 
able to fit together new patterns of awareness and action. We might,- 
that is, have a fit of insight, inspiration, invention, or creation. The 
propensity for finding the answer—the lure of creating or discovering 
- 
the new—no doubt has much to do with some people’s ability to 
endure tension until something new emerges from the contradictory 
and ambiguous situation. 
$ 
xii Contents 
27. "...1 Know That It Is Poetry” 
Fits of Gooseflesh, Shivering, the “Top of My Head 
‘Coming Off,” and Other Reactions Precipitated by 
Poetic Versions of Uncanny Experience. 
28. "... Thoughts Crowd into My Mind... Whence Do They Come?” 
A Fit of Composing. A Creative Minding of a Dys- 
junctive Flood of Ideas. 
29, Taking a Talking-Taking Walk 
A Fit in Which a Major Convulsive Reaction Is 
Transformed into a Sequence of Anger, Coughing, 
Laughing,“and Wit. 
‘ 
30. "Z,¥,X,W,V:.." 
A Fit of “Trying to See” the Answer to an Experi- 
mental Problem. 
31. “Oh, Yeah? If You Know So Much, When’Il the War Be Over?” 
A Fit of Unintended Prophecy. 
32. A Morose Secretary 
A Fit of Symbolization, Condensation, and Hallu- 
cination While Trying to Think. 
33. 
w Perspiration and Inspiration 
The Interaction of Intention and Spontaneity in 
Complex.Sequential Fits of Creation. 
34, “Suddenly | Felt a Misty Consciousness as of Something Forgotten 
. 
. 
Everything Had a Name” 
] 
A Fit of Spelling, of Recognition, and of Sudden 
Fitting Together. 
i 
