The Office: a facility based on change 
¥ 
Nobody involved in this book is an architect, which 
© 
_ ts pretty interesting, because most of its implications 
-are architectural. 
The design principles here apply 
_ splendidly to any work or living area which traffics in 
information or human interaction, from offices to 
_ 
small communities. 
It's a fine presentation of new 
theory, and Herman Miller, Inc. now has a line of 
_ 
office hardware behind it. We bought the book and 
_ hammered our own furniture out of scrap doors 
and 2x4’s. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Dave Evans] 
/ 
The Office: a facility based on change 
Robert Propst 
1968; 71pp. 
from: 
Taplinger Publishing Co., Inc. 
OUT OF PRINT 
29 East Tenth Street 
: 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Structural Design in Architecture 
Scope: Load determination, material characteristics, design 
of beams, frames, cables, arches, plates, thin shells, mem- 
branes, space frames: 
. This is a book of tested formulas that give back-of-the- 
envelope solutions that are good to within a. few percent. 
Nothing revolutionary. Just very well done. The book is 
set up in useable fashion——derivations that give a good 
fee/ for what’s going on, relevant formulas, and realistic 
examples. Salvadori is a real-world man: he knows where 
precision is required and where it is not, and that most 
architects and builders can only handle algebra and trig, 
maybe a \ittle ca/culus. So he makes the right simplifi- 
fying assumptions on complex problems, to produce a 
book that architects can USE: many structures can be 
completely designed, and larger, more complex structures 
can be checked for feasibility. 
_ [Suggested and reviewed by Charles Tilford]- 
Structural Design in Architecture 
from: 
Mario Salvadori and Matthys Levy 
Prentice-Hall, Inc. 
1967; 457 pp. 
Englewood Cliffs, N. J. 07632 
; $15 95 postpaid 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The Elements Rage- 
Every so often larger than normal pieces of cosmic 
energy lean on human affairs. 
The community dies, 
and is reborn, and ever after tells what the face of 
maelstrom looked like. Here are hair-raising photo- 
graphs, intrepid accounts, hammerhead tragedies, 
and a seven-page scale of the energy gradient from 
a baseball homerun to the mass energy of the M31 
galaxy. Classic. 
; 
—SB 
[Suggested by Jordan Belson.] 
’ The Elements Rage 
Frank W. Lane 
1965; 346 pp. 
$7.50 postpaid 
from: 
Chilton Books 
Radnor, PA 19089 
Rami 
Bache. 
Faxed 
Tenens, 
MR 
SRS. 
Frank W. Lai 
Water 
201 King of Prussia Rd. 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Before Johnstown there were several small communi- 
ties. The flood practically washed them out of 
existence, like a steamroller crushing toy villages. A 
stone viaduct was snapped in two as if made of dry 
clay, then ground to pieces. An iron bridge high in 
- 
the valley was torn from its foundations by a blow 
from the edge of the flood. Dozens of locomotives 
and passenger carriages, hundreds of freight cars, 
and miles of track were swept forward as the mon- 
strous river pounded down the valley. All these 
added immeasurably to the battering effect of the 
‘A balloon built by means of two flat, identical spherical sectors 
with a radius of 160 ft and an opening angle of 30°, supports a 
live load g = 30 psf and is to be prestressed with a safety factor 
of 4/3. 
design inj 
architecture 
2 
ring 
a 
/ 
mario salveders and matthys levy 
The two halves of the balloon are 
tied to 
acompression ring by radial 
cables. Determine the prestressing 
pressure, the maximum tension in 
the balloon and the compression 
in the ring, neglecting the dead 
load of the balloon. 
Fig. 
15.3.1 
Around us was an awesome display. Marge’s eye was 
a clear space 40 miles in diameter surrounded by a 
coliseum of clouds whose walls on one side rose 
vertically and on the other were banked like galleries 
in a great opera house. The upper rim, about 35,000 
ft. high, was. rounded off smoothly against a back- 
ground of blue sky. Below us was a floor of low 
clouds rising to a dome 8,000 ft. above sea level in 
the center. There were breaks in it which gave us 
glimpses of the surface of the ocean. 
In the vortex 
around the eye the sea was a scene of unimaginably 
violent, churning water. 
See Epilog, page 519 
“Lightning Protection” 
A tornado, like thunder, is heard many miles away. 
As it approaches, there is a peculiar whistling sound 
that rapidly changes to an intense roar, reaching a 
the whirling winds is then so loud that the noises 
caused by the fall of wrecked buildings, the crashing 
of trees, and the destruction of other objects is 
seldom heard. 
After each strike we moved in silence for a while, 
with only the tearing wind and slashing rain. Then 
the rocks would begin a shrill humming, each on a 
slightly different note. The humming grew louder 
and louder. You could feel a charge building up in 
your body. Our hair stood on end. The charge 
reached an unbearable climax. Then the lightning 
would begin again [quoted by Colin Fletcher.] 
Compression 
During a hurricane on Puerto Rico on September 
13, 1928, a ten-foot pine board measuring three by 
One inches was shot through this Royal Palm tree. 
deafening crescendo as it strikes. The screeching of 
* 
increased, and the humming swelled, until everything 
would strike again—with a crack like a gigantic rifle 
shot. The strike broke the tension. For a while we 
would grope forward in silence. Then the humming 
O
The most serious health problem in offices is its 
sedentary nature. Compelled by lack of choice, we 
are forced to conduct most office activity in a sitting 
position. The result, as medical studies and insurance 
data make clear, is a steady decline in vitality, energy 
and general body tone. 
Of even greater significance is the importance of 
sight as a window to mental recall. An office with 
no relevant visual display deprives the human 
performer of a spectacular recall tool: 
the human 
eye as a receptor for the mind. 
Three sides with a slightly widened opening ap- 
pears to be the best enclosure of all as a generality. 
There is good definition of territory or domae.. 
. 
privacy is well expressed and the ability to survey 
or participate is well maintained. 
The management of symbolic representation of 
reality is the function of offices. 
The office in its short evolution has adopted every 
kind of communication abstraction. 
Resultantly, 
we are concerned with reality simulation. 
Face to face across a surface maintains formality 
and a tone of discretion. Ninety degree location, 
the most natural of all conversational positions, 
encourages exchange. Side by side positioning allows 
joint viewing of papers or objects intelligibly. 
a) 
ESTELLE’S COMPLAINT 
As desperate as she was for someone to help her drive, and 
generally hassle the whole bummer of a scene on to St. Louis, 
Estelle wished she was by herself again. The girl Frieda seemed 
okay, actually. 
At least she was cool enough to simply settle 
into the motion of the journey and keep whatever trip she was 
on to herself. 
But the Greek was such an asshole Estelle could 
not bear to stay in hearing of his voice. What Frieda saw in the 
Greek Estelle could not begin to imagine, but whatever it was, 
she hoped she did not hear about it. 
Frieda was a sad, forlorn 
little chick, obviously in need of some sort of help, but Estelle 
just did not have the psychic energy to go messing with her head. 
Maybe later, if things cooled out.a little, they could manage a 
little chit-chat, but for the time being the only thing Estelle 
could think about was getting as far away from the Greek as 
possible. 
At two o’clock on a hot afternoon in the middle of the desert 
she didn’t have much appetite for walnuts. 
But if walnuts were 
what fate was serving up that day she guessed that was what she’d 
have. 
She reached into the Greek’s leather food bag, got a 
handful of nuts, and eating them strolled off toward the dunes 
she’d walked on a while ago. 
The thing that particularly bugged Estelle was the way Divine 
Right was zapping on the stupid Greek. 
There he’d been in a 
stupor for eight hours, sometimes huddling in her arms like a 
baby, and as soon as he comes out of it what does he do but 
fall in love with the first wise-man to come along and lay a heavy 
EB
word trip on him. They were only a few minutes into it to- 
gether, D.R. and the Greek. 
But Estelle had seen it happen so 
many times before she knew exactly what was coming down, and 
it was a drag. 
in her mind she saw the next five hundred miles 
unfolding in a stream of blather from the Greek while D.R. sat 
beside him doting on his every word. 
Oh D.R., Estelle thought. 
You're such a goddamn child. 
When he was right, when he was clear and cool and up and 
unhassled, D.R.’s mind was as beautiful to see in operation as 
anybody's that she knew. 
And yet he craved other people’s 
words about “truth” and “life” like some poor junkie craving 
dope. 
If it was a habit D.R. had, there certainly wasn’t any 
shortage of junk on the circuit they traveled in. As far as 
Estelle could see there were at least twice as many wisdom- 
pushers as dope dealers in the world, so how come the cops 
never got uptight about them? 
If she’d kept notes on all the 
philosophies, theories, schemes and plans to bring the world to 
a state of grace and love and enlightenment she’d heard in the 
last eighteen months she’d have enough recorded bullshit to 
fertilize the cosmic compost pile. There’d been a time when she 
was young, way back there a year or two ago, when other people’s 
enthusiasms could excite her a great deal. 
But because enthu- 
siasm was all it usually amounted to, Estelle didn’t get much out 
:
of it anymore. 
Because D.R. still did, because he was so 
willing to devalue what was already in his own head and credit 
fast-talking assholes with some sort of superior wisdom, it 
divided them, and left them in different places. 
If she could have 
believed that he was over there at the picnic table grooving on 
the food freak simply because he was stoned on acid and 
everything he saw and heard seemed groovy, it would have been 
one thing. 
But Estelle knew that wasn’t what it was. 
D.R. 
would have homed in on this dude stoned or sober and that was 
why it bothered Estelle so much. 
She knew that left out a 
lot about D.R. 
She knew there was a lot more to it than that. 
But right now she wasn’t able to consider much that was in his 
favor. 
She was pissed and jealous and weary and depressed. 
If D.R. had any virtues that redeemed him she preferred not to 
think about them right now. 
Design Considerations 
Shelter 
S
Ga H
a
oo
