eR 
PES 
HO. 
“Three Centuries of Harpsichord Making” by Frank Hubbard, 
| addresses, photographs, cockeyed opinions, very good opinions, 
‘Exotic Delicate Harpsichords 
I’m a sculptor, actually, but I’ve lately become involved in harpsichords 
and clavichords. I got to reading about them, and then started 
building clavichords, and concentrating on them. I might mention 
briefly some of the qualities clavichords have which draw me to them. 
They are, as you probably know, an early keyboard instrument, very 
simple in principle. When played, they are so quiet as to be drowned 
out by 2 people talking. They can’t be played with another instrument, 
as they are too quiet, and I seriously doubt that they could be played 
very satisfactorily in a city, due to traffic noise. But (the delicious 
but) they are the most sensitive of all keyboard instruments. You can 
play with a volume range dawn to nothing, and you can add 
vibrato to a note by pressing your finger gently up and down on the 
key. If you are sensitive, you can feel the vibrations of the string 
in your finger as you hold the key down. Now here’s the thing. 
Almost everything you see on TV, or read in magazines, billboards, 
etc. etc. is designed to be seen or read by someone who is not too 
interested. Commercials must catch the guy just heading into the 
kitchen, must reach out and grab the listener. I guess one of the big 
things that turns me on about clavichords is that they make no 
attempt whatsoever to do this. You myst come to them, and you 
must come on their terms, that is absolute silence. As you play, or 
listen to one, your level of hearing grows more acute. What sounded 
lke a faint tinkling when you started becomes full, almost loud 
music. Then, if someone coughs, it sounds like dynamite. I like the 
idea of small sounds being appreciated, and of 
great sensitivity, which 
you must seek out, which is not rammed down your throat. If you 
approach a clavichord on its own terms, it has a tremendous amount 
to give. 
Now for something of more use to you. In this whole bag of reviving 
old instruments, there are a number of sources of information. 
Harvard University Press, 79 Garden Street, Cambridge, 02138, 
$15.00, 
is simply a fantastic book. It describes the technical 
processes used to make harpsichords (he doesn’t deal with clavichords 
at all) and it is so thoroughly researched it makes your head spin. He 
spends quite a bit of time with general processes of the time 
(1500 to 1800) such as how lumber was cut and sold, what sizes of 
boards could be bought, how common pins. were made (you wouldn’t 
believe it!) the tools used, etc. Another great book is “The Modern 
Harpsichord”’ by Wolfgang Zuckermann, October House, 55 W.13th St. 
N.Y., 10011, $15.00. This deals with instruments being made today. 
He has good sections on old instruments and practices, then the 
main body of the book ts a section listing modern makers, with 
humorous anecdotes etc. 
Makers of modern instruments are all in that book, but you might 
be interested in some of the more interesting among them, mostly 
those who make kits. 
J. Witcher, 
Ancient Instruments, 
17715 La Rosa Lane, Fountain Valley, 
California, 92708. This firm is a gas (run by 2.ex-underwater engineers) 
and they make harpsichords, virginals, clavichords, Gigues, Liri da 
Braccio, Citterns, Hurdy Gurdies, Epinettes des Vosges, Baroque 
Flutes, Baroque Oboes, Baroque Oboes d’Amour, Cornetti, mute 
Cornetti, Rackets, Curtals, and the famed Baroque Bassoon. Honest. 
Their dulcimers go for around $30 and $45. They also make a hurdy 
gurdy kit $75 and a table model clavichord kit ($95 or $125). Neat 
guys. 
E.O. Witt, Route 3, Three Rivers, Michigan, 49093. He makes a very 
serious line of harpsichords and clavichords (including fretted clavi- 
chords--the only man I’ve heard of doing that, and in this crowded 
world if you’re the only man doing anything, it’s something). He has 
a good line of clavichords from $505 to $1025, and he says he 
supplies them partially made (all the tricky parts done) for about 2/3 
that price. Ditto his harpsichords, at about half price. They look 
very good. 
Herbert Burton, Box 80222, Lincoln, Nebraska 68501, makes a really 
neat looking harpsichord kit—prices range from $220-$795— 
complete with everything but liquid finishing materials. 
They try to ship kits same day order is received. 
Zuckermann Harpsichords, Box 121, Stonington, CT 06378 is an 
address I’m sure you know. His hardsichord kit is $150, produces a 
rather ugly, squat, unversatile instrument with amazingly loud tone. 
He makes a clavichord kit for $100, but all you get is a keyboard, 
piece of plywood for soundboard, some wire and other odd bits 
and pieces. 
Frank Hubbard, 185 A Lyman St., Waltham, Mass. 02154. 
Fantastic maker of instruments (all harpsichords). He makes a kit 
($700 for one keyboard, $900 for two) which is precut, fitted parts 
to make construction easier, but which makes an instrument about 
as good as any you can buy (including the $4000 ones!) Top of the 
line stuff, for serious people only. 
William Post Ross, 791 Tremont St., Room 515, Boston, 02118, 
though mostly a serious maker of fine harpsichords, has a virginal 
kit (snicker snicker) for about $560. Virginals are rectangular 
harpsichords, with a rounder, “‘tubbier’”, sometimes louder tone than 
harpsichords. They don’t take up much room in a Rouse. His kit 
produces a historically accurate 18th century Italian instrument. 
S.R. Williams, 1229 Olancha Dr., Los Angeles, 90065, makes kits, for 
a small harpsichord, a triangular spinet, and one or two other 
things, but I’ve lost the brochure. They looked good, though, not too 
expensive. 
More stuff. H.L. Wild, 510 East 11 St, N.Y., 10009, is a fantastic 
source for guitar supplies. He has all the woods (Deluxe German 
German Silver spruce etc.) necks, rosettes, fret wire, tools, books, 
everything, Really great. Banjo parts too! 
I don’t know if you want all this junk or not, but I suspect that the 
kind of people who want to stop killing, stop eating plastic food, stop 
building plastic relationships, get off the ladder of success, who want 
to smell trees, and hear the little noises in the world, would also like 
to hear and make music, and make their own instruments. If 
nothing else, out in the boondocks of Indiana there is a clavichord 
freak (who would have thought...) 
Harold R. Langland 
12632 Anderson Rd. 
Granger, Indiana 
Music 
Communications 
The Art of Organ-Building 
/f you like the idea of combining architecture and musical 
instrument design, this book is the standard of pipe organ 
construction. ‘Hey Baer, could we drive one with solar 
energy, or would it only work when the wind was blowing? 
ee 
—SB 
The Art of Organ-Building 
George Ashdown Audsley 
1905, 1965; 1358 pp.; 2 vols. 
Vol. 
1; $10.00 
Vol. Il; $10.00 
$20.00 
per set 
postpaid 
from: 
Dover Publications, Inc. 
180 Varick Street 
New York, N. Y. 10014 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
TRUMPET. Ger., TROMPETE. Fr., TROMPETTE.— 
This 
is probably, taken generally, the most important reed stop 
in the Organ, adding richness and dignity to every 
combination of stops into which it enters. 
So important 
and useful is a good TRUMPET, 8 FT., that no Organ of 
any pretension is built without one. 
The _proper tone of 
the TRUMPET is imitative of that of the orchestral 
instrument; and there is almost unlimited scope for the 
skill of the reed voicer in the production of this stop. 
The tubes of the TRUMPET are of metal and of inverted 
conical form and normal speaking lengths. 
Burton Harpsichord 
Ap 
Three Centuries of Harpsichord Making 
Have you ever heard a harpsichord? 
It'll make a 
gentleperson out of you. 
For some reason | have 
this conviction that harpsichord-makers aren’t 
afraid of dying. 
This book revels in the 16th, 
17th, and 18th century. 
The workmanship and 
music thereof. 
—SB 
Three Centuries of Harpsichord Making 
Frank Hubbard 
1965; 420 pp. 
$1 5.00 postpaid from: 
Harvard University Press 
79 Garden St. 
Cambridge, Mass. 02138 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
In this book my purpose has been to record the traditions of 
harpsichord making as they might have been transmitted to young 
apprentices in any one of the several countries in:which the craft 
flourished. 
| have intended to give enough information to make 
it possible for builders of harpsichords to base their work on 
certain Knowledge of the designs and methods of earlier makers; 
to guide players of the harpsichord in their search for appropriate 
instruments, dispositions, and registrations in re-creating the music 
of the past; and to serve as a useful body of information for 
historians and editors of early keyboard music. 
i 
a 
Wooden pipe of a Principal or Open Diapason, 16 ft. 
: 
.
:
Building Electric Organs 
Spas 
7 
Books: Electronic Musical Instruments by Richard H. Dorf (president 
of Schober) is available 1) from 
Radiofile 
Box 43 
Ansonia Station 
New York, N.Y, 10023 
and 2) from libraries. C. 1968 
: 
Frequency Divider Organs for the Constructor (hardbound) and An 
Electronic Organ for the Home Constructor (hardbound) written by 
Alan Douglas, published in England by 
Sir Isaac Pitman & Sons, Ltd. 
39 Parker St. 
; 
Kingsway, London W.C.2 
‘ 
: 
| 
England 
in preparation, same author and publ; Transitor Elec. Organs for the 
Amateur. 
Kits: from 
Shober Organ Corp. 
43 West 61st Street 
New York, NY 10023; literature and plastic demo record on request. 
\ 
© tote
7 
Electric Organs 
I. “Electronic Musical Instruments” hardbound only, $10 ppd., is 1) 
a buyers guide to commercially available organs and 2) an instruction 
manual on technical aspects of elec. organs generally. Dorf is a 
leading authority and received cooperation from all the companies 
whose organs ‘were reviewed. 
II. The two books by Alan Douglas are plans, circuit diagrams, etc. 
for home construction with parts bought at a radio supply store (a 
complete list of which ts in the index). “‘An Electronic Organ for 
the Home Constructor”’ deals with a A.G.O. Standard organ with 
separate generators for all tones. 
“Frequency Divider Organs...” 
involves. a more common modern system in which separate generators 
are used for the highest octave in the organ and all other lower tones 
are produced by division. Both books deal with tube and valve 
types; a solid state edition is said to be in preparation. 
f 
III. Kits. 
While the Douglas books all require a rather solid backing 
. 
in electronics, persons who read English, solder, and have time, can 
probably manage any organ in kit form. HEATHKIT/THOMAS has 
~ 
two models with an impressive array of gadgets and questionable 
use musically. SHOBER ELECTRONICS has five models, with base 
prices from about $500 to $1850. Numerous money-saving (or 
cost-spreading) routes of purchase are open, including buying in 
pieces (in the order you will need them for construction), cabinet 
kits, buying no cabinet and receiving plans for use with lumber of 
your choice, addition at a later date of optional equipment (reverb, 
percussion, etc.) LP demo records available. Literature and plastic 
demo record available on request. 
: 
at 
[ Suggested and reviewed b 
Charles Kopp] 
; 
Harpsichord Advice 
Relatively simple kits available in varying degrees of completeness: 
from one where you must do all the cabinet and need a reasonable 
woodworking shop to one that requires only hand tools. 
Wallace Zuckermann, Herbert Burton. 
: 
A full size concert instrument in kit form designed by one of the 
modern masters. (400-600 hours) Frank Hubbard. 
Supplies and parts for scratch builders of harpsichords and clavichords. 
Plans of Historic Instruments 
B & G Instrument Workshop 
318 N. 36th Street 
Seattle, Washington 98103 
Smithsonian Institution (MHT) 
Division of Musical Instruments 
4] 
Washington, D.C. 20560 
ae 
Superb Custom Instruments, Harpsichords, virginals, spinets, and 
clavichords in elegant period cabinets. (We sell our jacks to scratch 
: 
builders but no unusual kits. We do have plans and parts for a small 
= 
4 
portable spinettino but you make the keyboard. Not your screwdriver 
assembly. kit): 
B. W. M. Benn Harpsichords 
ee] 
4424 Judson Lane 
: 
\ og 
Minzeapolis, Minnesota 55435 
: 
They might also be interested in another dulcimer & psaltery kit 
source: 
J 
Here Inc. 
410 Cedar Avenue 
7 
- 
t 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 
Sincerely, 
Bradley W. M. Benn 
Harpsichord Maker 
Zuckermann Harpsichord Kits 
a Se
aan 
a 
ae 
Seca
lee 
/’m an enthusiastic backer of Zuckermann kits for harpsichords 
and clavichords. 
Zuckermann levels with you about the diffi- 
culties involved, then makes it all easy with good, cheap kits and 
excellent instructions. 
The harpsichord weighs about 150 /bs 
and can hold its own as a solo instrument or in chamber groups. 
The clavichord is a suitcase-sized delight, very expressive but 
very soft, quick to assemble, and easy to carry along on trips or 
— 
to have in a very cramped dwelling. 
There are more historically 
authentic kits available, but none that will get you into Renaissance 
and Baroque music more quickly, more cheaply, and with greater 
rigs Harpsichord kits start at$150, clavichords about 
— 
125. 
[Reviewed by Edward Allen] 
Zuckermann Harpsichords 
Box 121 
Stonington, CT 06378 
