Altered States of Consciousness 
_ If you're doing anything with meditation, dope, 
hypnosis, 
_ dreams, subjective exploration of any kind, this is a useful 
A Special Inquiry with Aldous Huxley into the Nature and 
Milton H. Erickson 
Character of Various States of Consciousness 
4 ‘Toward the Experimental Control of Dreaming 
— 
i A Study of Dreams 
We 
Charles Tart 
Frederik van Eeden 
| The “High” Dream 
Charles Tart 
~ Mutual Hypnosis 
Charles Tart 
_ The Effects of Marijuana on Consciousness 
Anonymous 
4 Subjective Effects of Nitrous Oxide ; 
William James 
| Attitude and Behavior Change Through 
Joseph Downing 
Psychedelic Drug Use 
WY Psychedelic Agents in Creative Problem Solving 
Harman, McKim, 
’ 
Mogar, Fadiman, 
< 
Stoleroff 
4 
. 
| 
Guide to the Literature on Psychedelic Drugs 
! f 
i! 
a} 
Charles Tart 
An Electroencephalographic Study on the 
Kasamatsu, Hirai 
Zen Meditation 
a Operant Control of the EEG Alpha Rhythm 
and Some of Its Reported Effects on 
Consciousness 
Joe Kamiya 
i 
t 
Elsewhere in the CATALOG is a book called Direct Use of the 
| 
Sun’s Energy. 7art’s book is moving toward Direct Use of the 
| Mind’s Energy. 
_SB 
| Altered States of Consciousness 
Charles Tart, ed. 
1969; 575 pp. 
. $4.95 postpaid 
AETERED STATES 
Or GOonaCcI0UsHESS 
|| from: 
from: 
_Doubleday & Co., Inc. 
501 Franklin Ave. 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
1. The first three to five hours are usually individual, to try to relax 
and let go. 
’ 
| 
2. Spouses’ problems; usually we like spouses separate for first group 
| treatments. 
If both are present, it is better if you start in different 
|| areas, but if you both want to be together, okay. 
3. Don’t be surprised at anything you may see the therapist doing— 
he knows what he is doing. 
: 
' 
4. A person who is having trouble breaking through needs something 
|| to resist against—the therapist may hand wrestle, or be on top and have 
| 
three to six others on top as well. The person then can exert all his 
|| strength to break loose. 
5. Anytime you are in trouble, don’t hesitate to ask for help. 
| 6. As people make break-through you'll hear laughing, crying, 
screaming. Don't worry about it, or get concerned. 
7. Nothing is expected of you, don’t expect anything of yourself— 
most people have a glorious trip. 
8. Try to avoid impressing anybody—you'll have a better trip. 
9. Around three to four hours after beginning, a stimulant will be 
brought around to keep your energy level up. 
10. Anytime you want to stop the trip, take some niacin, 500 to 
1000 mgm at a time. Niacin is good for bad re-entry, will make it 
easier. 
11. During the experience, if you want to come together, touch the 
other person or ask him. He may shake his head ‘no,’ or else turn and 
touch you. Don’t have hurt feelings, or guilt if they don’t want to 
be with you, be fre@ to be yourselves. 
The change that then came over Bill was dramatic. He began 
mumbling typical induction suggestions about relaxing, but over the 
course of a few minutes his voice became dramatic and forceful. He 
suggested that Anne see a diamond in her hand and concentrate on it 
and then almost immediately suggested that it would disappear and 
her mind would go blank. Then he very forcefully suggested physi- 
cal relaxation as he counted her into hypnosis: when he reached 20 
his whole manner changed and became relaxed and soothing. Anne 
reported a depth of 22. 
Bill then began talking about a ‘hallucinatory’ journey. that he and 
Anne were on together. 
His voice was confident, smooth, relaxed, 
and completely convincing that he was describing actual events that 
» were happening rather than anything ‘unreal.’ They were standing on 
a mountain slope, in front of the entrance to a tunnel. They walked 
hand-in-hand down this tunnel, with the explicit suggestion by Bill 
that they would be going deeper into hypnosis as they walked deeper 
into the dark tunnel. 
It was quiet in the tunnel, all outside noises had 
vanished, and an ineffable feeling of pleasantness and significance 
pervaded the tunnel: Anne reported a depth of 35 after a few minutes 
of this, and Bill continued describing their walk down the tunnel. 
The tunnel was absolutely real to Anne and Bill (and to Carol), as real 
as any experience in life. Although it was dark they could ‘see’ its 
walls in a strange way: Anne said. 
it felt as if she had a ‘light’ coming 
out from under her eyebrows, and “’...it wasn’t illuminating anything 
| was seeing, yet it helped me to know that things were there without 
seeing them.” Both Ss reported feeling the texture of the rock wails, 
which ranged from soft and slippery at places where it seemed moss- 
covered to quite hard where the bare rock was exposed. 
Anne and Carol were intensely curious as to what lay at the end of 
the tunnel, the end that Bill would not let them reach. This resulted 
in an interesting aftermath. About a month after this session, Anne 
was a subject in a group hypnosis test. As she knew what the induc- 
tion procedure was, she decided to ‘go’ back to the tunnel and explore 
it as soon as she was hypnotized but before the suggestibility test 
items were administered. She found herself running along the tunnel, 
hurrying to reach the end before the test items. At the end of the 
tunnel she found a cave, blazing with brilliant white light, and occu- 
pied by an old man of angelic appearance. The room was filled with 
music from an unseen source. Anne repeatedly asked him what this 
experience meant: 
he ignored her at first, and finally told her, very 
sternly, that he could not answer her question because Bill was not 
with her. Anne then found herself back at the group hypnosis testing. 
| asked the Ss about their perceived bodies during the experience and 
found that they wefe curiously disembodied much of the time. They 
mentioned having heads or faces but no bodies at times, and Anne 
reported that they walked through each other sometimes. When Bill 
commanded Anne to give him her hand so he could lead her back, 
Anne reported that she had to “crawl back into my body, sort of. It 
was almost as if we were moving around with just heads. When Bill 
said give him my hand, | had to kind of conjure up a hand.” 
Anne and Bill read the transcripts over and were both shocked. They 
had been talking about their experiences to each other for some time, 
and found they had been discussing details of the experiences they had 
shared for which there were no verbal stimuli on the tapes, i.e, they 
felt they must have been communicating telepathically or that they 
had actually been ‘in’ the nonworldly locales they had experienced. 
. This was frightening to both Ss, for. what had seemed a lovely shared 
fantasy now threatened to be something real. 
The most coherent and articulate sentence which came was this: 
There are no differences but differences of degree between 
different degrees of difference and no difference. 
‘Wonderingly, but with outward calm, | undertook to arouse Huxley 
from the trance state by accepting the partial clues given and by say- 
ing in essence, ‘’Wherever you are, whatever you are doing, listen 
closely to what is being said, and slowly, gradually, comfortably 
begin to act upon it. Feel rested and comfortable, feel a need to 
establish an increasing contact with my voice, with me, with the 
situation | represent, a need of returning to matters in hand with me 
not so long ago, in the not so long ago belonging to me, and leave 
behind but AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST practically everything of 
importance, KNOWING BUT NOT KNOWING that it is AVAILABLE 
UPON REQUEST. And now, let us see, that’s right, you are sitting 
there, wide awake, rested, comfortable, and ready for discussion of 
what little there is.”’ 
As he watched, he became annoyed with me since | was apparently 
trying to talk to him, and he experienced a wave of impatience and 
requested that | be silent. 
He turned back and noted that the infant 
was growing before his eyes, was creeping, sitting, standing, toddling, 
walking, playing, talking. 
In utter fascination he watched this grow- 
ing child, sensed its subjective experiences of learning, of wanting, of 
feeling. He followed it in distorted time through a multitude of 
experiences as it passed from infancy to childhood to school days to 
early youth to teenage. He watched the child’s physical development, 
sensed its physical and subjective mental experiences, sympathized 
with it, empathized with it, rejoiced with it, thought and wondered 
and learned with it. He felt as one with it, as if it were he himself , 
and he continued to watch it until finally he realized that he had 
watched that infant grow to the maturity of 23 years. He stepped 
closer to see what the young man was looking at, and suddenly 
realized that the young man was Aldous Huxley himself, and that tinis 
Aldous Huxley was looking at another Aldous Huxley, obviously 
in his early fifties, just across the vestibule in which they both were 
standing; and that he aged 52, was looking at himself, Aldous, aged 
23. Then Aldous, aged 23 and Aldous aged 52, apparently realized 
simultaneously that they were looking at each other and the curious 
questions at once arose in the mind of each of them. For one the 
question was, ‘Is that my idea of what I’ll be like when | am 52?” 
and, “‘Is that really the way | appeared when | was 23?” Each was 
aware of the question in the other’s mind. Each found the question 
of ’’Extraordinarily fascinating interest’ and each tried to determine 
which was the “actual reality’’” and which was the “’mere subjective 
experience outwardly projected in hallucinatory form.” 
When | have been flying in my dreams for two or three nights, then | 
know that a lucid dream is at hand. And the lucid dream itself is often 
initiated and accompanied al! the time by the sensation of flying. 
Sometimes | feel myself floating swiftly through wide spaces; once | 
flew backwards, and once, dreaming that | was inside a cathedral, | 
flew upwards, with the immense building and all in it, at great speed. 
_ Journeys Out of the Body 
' Many people doing drugs, meditation, or some of the occult 
| stuff have experienced an astral projection or out-of-the-body 
|| experience. Sometimes it was marvellous, other times it 
' scares the hell out of you. If you want to find out more 
about this, you'll find practically everything written is the 
| “7’ve got a secret that you’re not spiritual enough to hear 
| (believe-and pay and maybe /'1/ tell)” school. Or by people 
| who have a system to push. This book is by a person who's 
_ clearly a sensible man and who’s trying to tell it like it is, 
| instead of what he believes about it. And willing to put 
| himself on the line— he’s worked on demonstrating his 
_ability in my lab several times now. 
Techniques for leaving 
the body, evidential stuff (am / just crazy ?), meetings with 
| the “dead,” visits to other “planes,” frustrated attempts 
' to find somebody who really understands this phenomena, 
astral sex (wow!). No ego trips, either. Just a solid citizen 
| who’s been “out” a thousand times now and wants to pass 
| his experiences to others so they won't have to go through 
eee 
a 
* 
° 
y 
_ some of the confusion and terror he did learning on his 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Charley Tart] 
¥ 
i Journeys Out of the Body 
R. Monroe 
’ 
1971 
| Garden City, N.Y. 11530 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
There is a better, faster way. Happily, there seems to be built-in 
directional senses if their use can be mastered. The “‘if”’ is the 
catch. As noted elsewhere, you “‘think’’ of the person at the end of 
your destination— 
never a place, but a person— and use the 
method prescribed. 
In a few moments, you are there. You can 
watch the landscape move under you if you wish, but it’s a little 
disconcerting when you rush headlong toward a building or tree— 
and go right through it. !n order to avoid such traumas, forget 
about seeing during the traveling process. You never quite get 
over the physical-body conditioning that such things are solid. 
At least | have not. | still have the tendency to move in the 
direction of the door to léave— only to realize again the situation 
when my Second body hand goes through the doorknob. 
Irritated 
with myself, | then dive through the wall rather than the door to 
reinforce my awareness of the Second state characteristics. 
In conjunction with this convenient homing instinct that is 
uneffected by distance, you are given a further problem. The 
automatic navigational system is accurate, too accurate. And that is 
the problem. 
It works by what and of whom you think. 
Let one 
small stray thought emerge dominently for just'one microsecond, 
and your course is deviated. 
This near area is not a pleasant place to be, albeit completely 
understandable from this viewpoint. 
It is a level or plane where you 
“belong’’ until you learn better. 
| don’t know what happens to 
those who don’t learn. Perhaps they stay there forever. The moment 
you disassociate from the physical via the Second body, you are 
upon the fringes of this close-by section of Locale II. It is here that 
one meets all sorts of disjointed personalities and animate beings, 
ssuch as described in Chapter X. If there is some protecting 
mechanism for the neophyte, it was not apparent to me. Only by 
cautious and sometimes terrifying experimentation was | able to 
learn the art or trick of passing through the area. 
| still am not 
sure precisely of all this learning process, and so have presented only 
the obvious. Whatever it was, | happily have not beer troubled in 
such passages for several years. 
You are unaware of differences in sex, you yourself as a part of the 
Whole, are both male and female, positive and negative, electron and 
proton. Man-woman love moves to you and from you, parental- 
child-sibling-idol and idy!l and ideal— all interplay in soft waves 
about you, in you and through you. , 
You are in perfect balance 
because you are where you Belong. You are Home. 
Within all of this, yet not a part of it, you are aware of the Source 
of the entire span of your experience, of you, of the vastness 
beyond your ability to perceive and/or imagine. 
Here, you know 
and easily accept :the existence of the Father. Your true Father. 
the Father, the Creator of all that is or was. You are one of His 
countless creations. How or why, you do not know. This is not 
important. 
You are happy simply because you are in your Right 
Place, where you truly belong. 
Each of the three times | went There, | did not return voluntarily. 
| came back sadly, reluctantly. Someone helped mé return. 
Each 
time after | returned, | suffered intense nostalgia and loneliness for 
. 
days. 
| felt as an alien might, among strangers in a land where 
2 
things were not “‘right,”’ where everything and every one were so 
‘ 
different and so “wrong” when compared with where you belonged. 
Acute loneliness, nostaliga, and something akin to homesickness. 
So great was it that | haven't tried to go There again. 
ey 
The pictures and the images squirmed in D.R.’s mind like worms 
in acan. 
His mind was alive with their flickering dance, their scatter 
and their swirl, and it remained that way till he had left the world 
of sunlight and crawled into the darkness of the mine. 
The mine. 
That old coal mine hidden under the fallen tipple, there by the 
Trace Fork road. 
It was an easy entrance this time. No digging, no scrabbling. 
The little furrow he had made the other time was still there, an in- 
dentation in the weeds, and then the dry, rotting wood and dusty 
earth leading to the center of the pile of fallen boards and beams. 
The old wood formed a lattice overhead, a network that allowed 
an ornate design of sunlight to filter through. 
D.R. lay a moment, resting, looking up, peaceful in his body, 
the clatter in his mind already settling, slowing down. 
(continued) 
re 
Discor porate 
Learning 
%
