fe 
Tuesday, getting bleak. 
The rain that night was just too heavy. We 
found shelter in the poverty center office. 
People and sleeping bags soaked through. 
Started the morning with chanting. Rain 
continued. People left. Report that Liferaft 
With the sky gray and threatening, like 
a scene from the Old Testament, with 
the fourth day of hunger producing weird 
and mellow 
hallucinations, the entire 
Liferaft Earth seems more surrealistic 
was sinking because holes could not be patched and more absurd, 
because of wet plastic. Report that a stop sign 
But sitting here, looking out across 
had been thrown into Liferaft during the night. the ‘‘Hunger Show’’, sitting here in Life- 
Decision to abandon Liferaft—we couldn’t 
stay in Center office—and continue Liferaft 
in back room of Whole Earth Truck Store. 
(No place else to go.) 
Many of us left during the move. Everytime 
condition/place changed we lost people. 
Keeping open to moving and change was 
harder than fasting for many. We were 
wet, tired, funky. The room was warm and 
- dry and much much too small. We covered 
the floor with dry sleeping bags and the walls 
with wet clothing. Again, the model of a 
. crowded hungry future, too many people 
living in insect closeness. Of course for a 
while it was nice and cozy, close comfortable 
groups laying around, taking it easy. But. 
The TV 
in the corner reached every ear. 
Cries of Turn it down. Cigarette smoke 
‘duplicated L.A. air. Many, able to stop 
eating, were unable to stop smoking. If you 
took a step, you had to step over somebody. 
After a few hours of this more and more 
people died. 
A general goofy punch-drunkeness. Some 
avidly read cookbooks, especially savoring 
the big glossy illustrations. A TV crew 
arrived. Wavey Gravy passed out all the 
toys he had Jeft. During an interview with 
Brand some crew member blew bubbles in 
front of the television camera. 
We took stock. The three days in Hayward 
were over. We had plenty of publicity—on the 
news every night, talked to too many reporters. 
Now when TV or radio men came most people 
hardly stirred. Nor was there much interest 
in watching ourselves on TV. The Log was 
hopelessly out of date since people were 
leaving without bothering to weigh-out. 
Roy Sebern, artist. 
Liferaft Earth 
Whole Systems 
raft 
Earth looking across the 
deso- 
lation 
of this Asphalt-Parking-Lot in- 
Hayward-Wasteland, I can still remember 
that this macabre and absurd scene does 
not surpass the outside world I came 
from, 
Tuesday night. The rain kept coming down that 
sloping asphalt. 
(‘‘No rain this week”’ the weather 
bureau had said.) People were 3-days weak and 
now were soaked. 
(‘‘Two more days of rain’’ the 
weather bureau said now.) The Pneumonia Show. 
| started waking people up and sending them into 
the plastic tube—it wasn’t dry enough, and the 
Fire Department would chase them out. We'd 
have to leave the enclosure. 
| stood by the door 
“ARE YOU READY TO-DIE” for two breaths, 
and pushed on out. The key | had to the big 
building didn’t work; | called Goetz and he came 
down to open his office. Warm dry office, 
gradually filling wetly with people. Wavey comes 
in. His wife Bonnie Jean comes an hour later 
nearly hysterical; she’s been searching for him all 
this time in every pile of junk in the enclosure. 
| 
go back out to get the final refugees. 
Rain and 
wind. What! hear, walking through the debris, is 
“This is the way the world ends. 
. 
. sooner than 
expected’’, only not that dramatic. Just a caption. 
It was impressive, that people as weak and fucked- 
up as we were could clean up the parking lot and 
move out so efficiently. We kept discovering that, 
how as you get weaker you still can do what you 
have to, only you do it better. You get kind of 
simple-minded, | think. 
It makes for good press 
interviews: 
you're too weak to tell anything but 
the middle of the truth. 
Robert Frank stopped by to tell us he’d 
died driving over from Hayward. He felt the 
movie he’d been trying to make had been in 
the parking lot. If we'd stayed there, stuck 
it out... 
. He obviously didn’t feel too good. 
We'd watched his last movie, “Me and My 
Brother,” staring Julius Orlovsky, in Hayward, 
projected on a sheet; it was depressing to lose 
him. 
The seven Hog Farm buses arrived that night. 
Painted with “Liferaft Earth Hunger Show”, 
driving from New Mexico through breakdowns 
and hamburger highways. It was now Thursday. 
Sixty or so had managed to stay alive, driving, 
feeding kids. Others hadn’t started the fast 
or had died along the way. 
Back in the Hayward parking-lot—hearing that 
they were now in Reno, that they had to fix 
a clutch in Las Vegas—we had talked of the 
energy we would receive when they joined us. 
How beautiful it would be. The vision of sixty 
more Liferaft people coming as our numbers 
dropped. 
But we did not run out into the rain and 
embrace them. Instead we stuck stubbornly 
to our remaining structure—probably because 
it had in fact fallen apart and we were doing 
our best to keep going. But we went through 
the whole trip of our game: Stop at the door, 
are you alive or dead, weigh-in, and so on. One 
by one. Since many Hog Farm people were 
dead, having eaten, and needed to 
get out of 
the rain, see friends, dry off, stretch, use the 
bathroom—the game at this point was just in 
the way. Living and dead from the Farm all 
had the same living problems. The pure Life- 
~ 
raft of only fasters was, by necessity, a thing 
of the past. But we held on tight to our con- 
ception of what we were doing; or our con- 
ception held on tight to us. 
Understandably, many brothers and sisters from 
the Farm were unhappy. Thoughtlessness and 
our weary apathy were received as negative 
vibrations. Farm people felt a come-down from 
their cross-country bus-life Liferaft. Not that 
it was all bad. A lot of what happened was 
just fine, embraces, smiles, sharing. But there 
were just too many people in the room. Kids 
and dogs running around. More people kept 
coming in to the room from the buses. Before 
our eyes our population exploded. Out of over- 
crowding, misunderstanding. Arguments over 
the microphone. Some trouble within the _ 
Farm. Somebody wanted to discuss the word- 
ing of the original Hunger Show leaflet. 
Finally twenty-five of the newly arrived 
Farmers walked out and died across the 
-street in a Chinese restaurant. Wavey Gravy, 
torn between communes, said he was leaving 
because so many of his Family were leaving. 
He looked miserable. Somebody said, But, 
you can’t go, weren’t you one of the organ- 
izers. Somebody answered, That’s the trouble, 
there aren’t any organizers, it’s what all of us 
do. 
Wednesday, the full catastrophe. 
At this shock-point one Hog Farmer took the 
microphone, and said, Listen, I have this book, 
you ask it questions, and there was suddenly 
instant agreement. Bring in the Book of 
Changes, to help us through our changes. 
A call for silence. People meditating, going 
into themselves, quieting down. We passed 
the bundle of yarrow stalks around. Over 
ninety people touched them, held them, 
— 
heavy with potential. We all placed our 
hearts in the straight-crooked stalks, falling 
apart, coming together. Intense highly charged 
stale late night air. 
“The Arousing: Thunder repeated: the image 
of shock. Thus in fear and trembling the 
superior man sets his life in order and examines 
himself.” Changing to The Receptive: “Since 
there is something to be accomplished we need 
friends and helpers in this hour of toil and 
effort . 
. . to find friends means to find 
guidance.” The words flashed away our weary 
collective stupidity. There was no discussion 
afterwards. The whole room began breathing 
normally. Wavey Gravy took to heart the sec- 
tion dealing with the leader, that“. . . this is 
also a time of planning and for this we need 
solitude... 
In this sacred hour he must do 
without companions, so that the purity of 
the moment may not be spoiled by factional 
hates and favoritism.’” Wavey Gravy returned 
to his air mattress and announced that he 
would not speak until the same time tomorrow. 
Thus he signed off. 
HEHE 
The police in Menlo Park also thought the 
Truck Store was overcrowded. Our third and 
final move was to a house in the mountains. 
It seemed a reward for going through all the 
rest. Walking through the forest, under clouds, 
pine-needle ground, hunger-sharpened taste 
buds feasting on fresh air, remembering I 
haven’t been alone since the fast began. 
Please, People, let there be trees and space 
enough for space. 
{ 
a 
LIFERAFT EARTH 
The scene Wednesday at the Truck Store was har- 
rowing. This was my most protected research 
haven. With wall to wall people in it | was flat 
freaked. Now we were reflected on ourselves. 
~ 
“This is it’’, said Wavey, ‘’This is the 21st Cen- 
tury.”” With the arrival of the Hog Farm buses 
~ 
that night (still raining), it began to get really 
interesting—jammed with people now, and tempers 
rising and procedures fraying: everything from 
_ 
this point on is news because nobody knows what 
happens next. We never found out. A long slow 
reading of the | Ching put everybody to sleep. 
The next morning Menlo police came and said to 
~ 
leave. 
That was a strange scene. 
| was in the parking lot 
of my own store raving at a cop, wondering if | 
was going to slug him. He was no polite cop and 
~ 
| was no polite citizen. 
| didn’t hit him, but was 
going to do it in the press, when Dick Raymond 
(who'd left and eaten, because of a death in the 
family) came up with an original thought. Let the 
cops be. Hippies against cops is a boring and use- 
~ 
less story. Go to Portola’s place in the mountains, 
Ortega Park, and don’t telt the media where we're 
going. Keep the fast, but get some rest. And that’s 
- 
what we did. A reporter from Channel 7 said as 
we departed, ‘Is there anything else | can do for 
you, besides leave you alone for a few days?” 
=| 
¥ 
All of us are here. The Hog Farm, fasters as 
well as non-fasters, visitors who can find us. 
Robert Frank returns, asks to rejoin, resumes 
not eating, and brings out hiscamera. All 
Structure has disappeared. No games, no 
; |
news reports, no hard and fast line between 
— 
living and dead. Energy comes for clear” 
| 
headed moments, then evaporates, then 
returns. Non-fasters cook elaborate meals 
constantly. More people die due to prox- 
| 
imity of food but most of them don't 
leave. 
Someone proclaims, “There is no dif- 
hel 
ference between the living and the dead.” 
A comfortable wandering chaos. Oneradio 
station reports we've given up, another, 
closer to the truth, says we're in hiding. We 
wait and take showers. Wavey Gravy, inall 
day silence, covered with balloons, ceremon- 
iously presents a glass of water to everyone 
as they arrive from the Truck Store.. 
| 
Thursday, Friday at Ortega. People who had ‘died’ 
were cooking constantly in the kitchen, eating 
eae 
four or five meals a day in front of close friends 
who were starving. They weren't doing it meanly, 
more as if with so much hunger around, someone 
had to do a lot of eating. | have a feeling that 
this is happening in the world—under-eating in one 
place matched by over-eating in another to com- 
pensate. 
: 
The return of Robert Frank and Danny Lyon. “I 
oa 
woke up this morning,” said Robert, ‘‘and | felt 
4 
terrible. 
| had to come back.’” Danny commented, 
— 
“I'm glad Robert had some food. He couldn't 
= 
carry the camera any more.’’ During the week 
Tom Albright had an article in the San Francisco 
Chronicle about Robert’s involvement in the Hun- 
ger Show, titled ‘‘One Man’s End to Cynicism.” 
— 
we 
eee
