ironment and Man 
ree 
When species diversity is reduced in natural eco- 
systems, either willfully or inadvertently, the same 
kinds of problems seen in monoculture begin to 
arise. But a natural ecosystem cannot be treated 
like a cornfield and routinely sprayed to control 
some beetle or caterpillar. For a biocide that 
might be tolerated in a cornfield could so scramble 
the food web in a woodlot that the original prob- 
lem would be lost in the ensuing chaos. Moreover, 
while we can afford the energy input to maintain 
a field of corn because of the value of its yield, we 
cannot possibly afford the economic burden of 
maintaining natural ecosystems that have main- 
tained themselves until disturbed by man. 
Consequently, until we know exactly the role 
of every organism in an ecosystem, how it controls 
or is controlled by others, we cannot abandon any 
species as superfluous, not even that pitiful flock 
of seventy whooping cranes. 
If we do we run the 
risk of having to cope ‘with future population 
explosions of fungi, insects, rodents, or whatever, 
that might well dwarf any problems seen to date. 
j isa pretty complete introductory text, well-illustrated, 
on all the ecological issues. There’s quite.a few of them, and 
_a solution to one problem may accelerate six others. 
BEN’ 
—SB 
W. W. Norton & Company, Inc. 
500 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
cience and Survival 
; 
: 
Siren 
: 
if 
Figure 4.7. 
The areas in black are over five miles from the nearest road, railroad, or 
navigable waterway. This is America’s remaining wilderness. (From C. Tunnard and 
B. Pushkarev, Man-Made America, Yale University Press, 1963.) 
Scientific and technological critics are significantly rare and 
1uch needed. Barry Commoner is a good one-——prestigious 
scientist, active administrator, capable writer, committed 
critic. 
; 
; 
Reading his anthology of technological blunders, | am led to 
_ wonder if the success of death-fear-driven science merely 
changes the size of the package that death comes in. There’s 
__ 
less of piecemeal local, “natural” dying, and more 
of massive 
~“caused’”’ dying. | think | prefer the old way. Is anybody 
working on establishing friendlier relations with Death? 
laybe he’s a good guy who’s had bad press. 
: 
—SB 
_ [Suggested by Peter Montague] 
XN 
Science & Survival 
Barry Commoner 
966; 150 pp. 
1 .65 postpaid 
om: 
— 
Ballantine Books, Inc. 
101 Fifth Ave.. 
_ New York, N.Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
. 
PE 
_ 
floor. 
[t was a gay, carefree life—your food grew right 
in 
your house and when you had eaten your fill. you 
ossed the garbage down through the leaves. The same with 
_ 
your shit, and even your body when you died. The forest 
scavengers and processes of decay speedily disposed of 
all refuse. 
: 
: 
lan came down from the trees long, long ago and created 
or himself a less carefree way of life. But he remains the 
Ithiest animal around, treating his environment as if it 
still magically gobbling up everything he discards. 
This book documents the folly with the gross dishearten- 
ing facts. From human excrement to nuclear fallout, with 
smog, DDT and the junkyard on the way. 
: maa 
—HH 
_ 
[Suggested by H.R. Hershey, Sr.] 
lassic’ status. You can search through three libraries 
_ 
for them, or you can get them straight and simple from 
Ecology Center. 
r jo 
longer available 
: 
Eco-Catastrophe, Dr. Paul Ehrlich 
The Four Changes, Anonymous 
ragedy of the Commons, Garrett Hardin 
Tragedy of the Commons Revisited, Bery! L. Crowe 
The Historical Roots of Our Ecologic Crisis, Lynn White Jr. 
The trouble began with the failure of a relay which controlled the 
flow of electricity from the Sir Adam Beck No. 2 power plant in 
Queenston, Ontario, into one of its feeder lines. The remaining 
lines, unable to carry the extra load, shut down their own safety 
switches. With these normal exits blocked the plant’s full power 
flowed back along the lines that tied the Queenston generators into 
. the U. S, - Canadian grid. This suden surge of power, traveling 
across New England, quickly tripped safety switches in a series 
of local power plants,-shutting them down. Asa result the New 
England region, which until then had been feeding excess 
electricity into the Consolidated Edison system 
in New York, 
drained power away from that city; under this strain the New 
York generators were quickly overloaded and their safety switches 
shut off. The blackout was then complete. The system had been 
betrayed by the very links that were intended to save local power 
plants from failure. 
The new hazards are neither local nor brief. Air pollution covers 
vast areas. 
Fallout is worldwide. Synthetic chemicals may remain 
in the soil for years. Radioactive pollutants now on the earth's 
surface will be found there for generations, and, in the case of 
carbon-14, for thousands of years. Excess carbon dioxide from 
fuel combustion eventually might cause floods that could cover 
* 
much of the earth’s present land surface for centuries. At the 
same time the permissible margin for error has become very much 
reduced. 
In the development of steam engines a certain number 
of boiler explosions were tolerated as the art was improved. 
If 
a single comparable disaster were to Occur in a nucler power 
plant or in a reactor-driven ship near a large city, thousands of 
people might die and a whole region be rendered uninhabitable——a 
price that the public might be unwilling to pay for nuclear power. 
The risk is one that private insurance companies have refused to 
underwrite. Modern science and technology are simply too 
powerful to permit a trial-and-error approach. 
Not So Rich as You Think 
George R. Stewart 
1968, 70; 176 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid 
from: 
Houghton Mifflin Co. 
Wayside Road 
Burlington, MA. 01803 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Toward an Ecological Solution, Murray Bookchin 
The Politics of Population, Aldous Huxley 
All About Ecology, William Murdoch and Joseph Connell 
What We Must Do, John Platt 
Humanistic Biology, Rene Dubos 
= 
Blind Faith In the Omnipotence of Technology, Richard Merrill 
Outwitting the “Developed” Countries, Ivan Illich 
Life Is an Endless Give-And-Take With Earth and All Her 
Creatures, Rene Dubos 
~ Man's Eco-System, Lamont C. Cole 
from: 
Ecology Center Confederation 
13 Columbus 
: 
San Francisco, Calif. 94111 
Sometimes, in moments of impending crisis, we are aware only that 
the main outcome of science is that the planet has become a kind 
of colossal lightly triggered time bomb. Then all we can do is to 
issue an anguished cry of warning. 
In calmer times we try to 
grapple with the seemingly endless problems of unraveling the 
tangle of nuclera physics, seismology, electronics, radiation 
biology, ecology, sociology, normal and pathological psychology, 
which, added to the crosscurrents of local, national, and internation- 
al politics, has become the frightful chaos that goes under the 
disarming euphemism “‘public affairs.” 
RETURN OF THE LONE OUTDOORSMAN 
The birds in the treetops hushed their singing as the Lone Out- 
doorsman came into Divine Right’s camp. But D.R. was too deep 
into his monologue to catch the warning. He was too deep into 
it even to realize that Estelle had left the camp and gone for a 
walk. Before he could prepare himself in any way, there the 
Outdoorsman was, standing above him with his hands on his hips, 
staring at D.R. like a teacher or 
acop. As he became aware of the 
Lone Outdoorsman’s presence, D.R. went silent as the birds. The 
music that had filled his head changed from harps to kettle drums 
and he wondered where Estelle had gone, and why. 
“Afternoon,” said the Outdoorsman. 
“Good afternoon,” said Divine Right. 
“How're you?” asked the Lone Outdoorsman. 
“Okay, | guess,” said D.R. 
“Yeah, 
Well, | noticed you over there in the tent with them 
foreign ladies, and | just wondered if anything might be wrong.” 
“No,” said D.R. 
“Nothing wrong, as far as | know.” 
“Yeah. 
Well, just checking. 
1 noticed you over there in 
the tent with ‘em. You never know. 
Cleaning out your bus, 
looks like.” 
D.R. nodded. 
He had been kneeling among the stuff from 
the bus when the Outdoorsman first came over. 
Now he was on 
his feet, and following the Outdoorsman as he walked around the 
bus, looking at the paint job. 
“You paint all this stuff on your bus?” asked the Outdoors- 
man. 
E 
“Some of it,” said D.R. 
“How come you to do it?” said the Outdoorsman. 
‘’Messed 
up a good paint job. What's that there?” 
The Outdoorsman was pointing at a large yellow moon on 
Urge’s side, with a crab walking across it, leaving tracks. 
“That's a moon with a crab on it,’”’ said D.R. 
The Outdoorsman looked D.R. in the eye. ‘You say it is, 
huhh?” 
7 
D.R. nodded 
“How many horsepower this thing have?” 
"| don’t know. 
Fifty, maybe.” 
“Fifty, huh. 
Yeah. 
Well, my. GMC over there's got four 
hundred and fifty. Of course, the rig weighs it down some, and 
my boat. 
But it’ll still outrun a bus like yours any day of the 
week, you better believe that.” 
D.R. asked the Outdoorsman why he was telling him that. 
The Outdoorsman said you never know. 
Then he told D.R. 
to let him know if anything came up. 
"What do you mean?” 
“Well. 
You know. 
Trouble.” 
D.R. nodded. 
His heart was pounding. 
He watched the 
Outdoorsman light his pipe, then carefully crush the match 
against his knife handle. 
“You remember what | told you, now,” he said, and he 
turned and jingled off through the trees to his own camp. 
ERolOny Issues 
Whole Systems 
” 
