Four Wheel Drive Handbook 
Since we’re getting a Dodge Powerwagon to pull our trailer 
into exotic places, this book came along just in time to be 
of excellent use. Every page has something. Including 
sensible warnings that 4wd may not be what you need— it’s 
expensive, harder to service, just a bit better than 2-wheel 
drive. The book has an excellent list of suppliers. 
—SB 
four Wheel Drive Handbook 
James T. Crow, Cameron A. Warren 
1970; 96 pp. 
$2.95 Postpaid from: 
Haessner Publishing Co. 
Box 89 
Newfoundland, N.J. 07435 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Low range, not used enough by 4-wheelers, lets things happen gently. 
Toyota Land Cruiser 
The most work per dollar in a 4-wheel drive you can get 
this side of a truck. New soft tops run about $3,849, 
hard tops $4,209. For your nearest Toyota Dealer check the 
phone book’s yellow pages, or 
- 
Cepek Tires 
Good tires, good prices, good advice. Plus other dune 
buggie and off-road gear. 
~ 
In conclusion then, here are more of our somewhat subjective 
opinions about the various 4wds: 
Most durable vehicle: 
Land Rover 
Most for the money:. Toyota Land Cruiser 
Best on/off road combination: 
Ford Bronco 
Best for long-range off-road touring: 
International Travelall 
Best all around vehicle: 
Jeep Wagoneer 
Most fun to drive off-road: 
CJ-5 Jeep 
There are some other driving pointers that apply almost ex- 
clusively to the snow country, such as rubbing a plug of 
tobacco or a piece of raw onion on your windshield to keep 
it clear of snow and ice (but don’t use your wipers too). 
Also as a general rule, your best tires should be on the front. 
Three-quarters of all tire troubles happen to the front tires in 
4-wheel driving since they’re the ones that reach the trouble 
first. 
It's a matter of putting your best foot forward. 
At this point, we've got to say something about jacks. Here 
we heartily agree with the experts— always carry two jacks. 
There are times when two jacks may come in very handy— 
like the time when you want to switch a better tire to the 
front and use your not-so-good spare on the rear. But the 
primary reason, honestly, is to assure that you always have at 
least one jack that works. 
—SB 
Catalo 
i 
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. 
is 
Made in =o 
2055 West 190th St. 
free 
Torrance, CA 90501 
Pe 
| 
Dick CEPEK 
Dick Cepek, Inc. 
j em 
9201 California Ave. 
' Desert Survival 
South Gate, CA 90280 
| Three people died in this valley last summer. They drove in 
with no water. The car stalled, and they tried to walk out, 
arrived nowhere. Dumb tourists. 
Sensible, succinct, and free, this manual from Maricopa County 
| would have made them smart tourists with a good story to 
tell. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Mark Goodman] 
Desert Survival 
| Information for Anyone Travelling in the Desert Southwest 
1971 
27 pp. 
“i 
free (send postage) (organization name and postage for 2 oz. 
requested) 
from: 
Maricopa County Dept. of Civil Defense and Emergency Services 
2035 North 52nd Street 
: 
: 
| Phoenix, Arizona 85008 
| When driving in sand or snow, traction can be increased by partially 
| deflating tires. Drive slowly on low tires. Do not remove so much air 
| that the tire may slip on the rim. Start, stop, and turn gradually, as 
# 
sudden motions cause wheels to dig in. If you plan on driving in the 
| desert, practice “difficult traction” in a dry wash with another car 
standing by to tow you out if you become stuck. Experiment with the 
various footings. There are certain tool and equipment requirements 
if you intend to drive off the main roads: one or more shovels, a pick- 
mattock, a tow chain or cable, at least 50 feet of strong tow rope, 
| tire pump, axe, water cans, gas cans (both FILLED), and of course, 
| your regular spare parts and auto tools. For rope, consider nylon 
rather than manila. It costs more, but has twice the strength, will last 
“much longer, and its elasticity is highly beneficial in extracting stuck 
| vehicles. %'’ nylon has a working strength of 2,000 pounds and a 
breaking strength of about 10,000 pounds. Be sure that your car is in 
| sound condition with a full gas tank, a filled radiator, a filled battery 
and new (and extra) fan belts. 
@ 
\ 
Determining Direction from Shadow: Select an object at least 3 ft. 
| high which casts a shadow with a well defined projection. Mark the 
shadow tip---wait 10 to 15 minutes and again mark the shadow tip. 
A line drawn from the first mark through the second mark will point 
| EAST. Effective from about 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
QUICKSAND 
Quicksand is a deposit of fine sand in combination with water. It may 
have the appearance of smooth dry sand, but the water underneath 
lubricates the grains and allows them to flow easily. There is nothing 
_ mysterious about quicksand---it acts, as any thick liquid would, and 
if we react sensibly we can escape it. Man is lighter and will float in 
water, and therefore, quicksand. It has no power to suck down 
bodies, but frantic struggling to free the feet creates forceful down- 
ward movement which causes the sand first to move away, then 
) quickly return to pack around the legs. The result is a firmer and 
deeper hold on the body. Further struggling repeats the process until 
_ the body is engulfed completely. If caught throw yourself flat on 
your back. You will float. Get rid of extra weight. Throw your gun 
and pack off quickly. Don’t hold up your arms---let them rest 
spread out on the surface. Roll slowly to firm ground, or turn onto 
your stomach and do a slow breaststroke. Move slowly and care- 
fully, and you will ‘swim’ to safety. Avoid getting caught---look for 
| quicksand in river beds, washes and run-off areas of recent flash 
floods. 
5 
SBEBBBRBRHRRBRBEBBSRHBRBRERBERBRHREEHR 
BERSERKER RAE 
Virtuoso Handy Jack 
In going over your July issue, was interested to note your mention of 
the Handy Jack. | have used one for year--very effective. Here are 
three uses for it well worth featuring: 
a. In case of auto wreck and car is collapsed, insert jack and use to 
“unpry’’ the car and remove victim. Last time! used jt, man was 
badlycrushed and was able to get some of the weight of car off.him. 
He hadskidded off road, turned upside down and roof collapsed and 
squeezed him. The Handyman Jack took a lot of weight off him, but 
| still couldn’t get him out, although he was alive when | first 
reached him. If | had had two of these, | might have gotten him out-- 
but dead when our ambulancearrived and took a tow truck to litt 
car off his body! 
eS 
b. When you skid off road in snow (or mud)...place Handyman Jack 
(or any bumper jack that will lift 3 or 4 ft.) under rear bumper. 
Raise to maximum height...then stand to one side and topple car 
off jack toward roadway. This will move rear end at least 3 ft.!! 
Repeat once or twice and you will have.car wheels on road where 
they will get traction. 
c. Getting car out of a deep mud hole...! have used this many times! 
Attach a lumber chain (or 3 or 4 strands of heavy rope..chain is 
best as it doesn’t stretch) to a tree or possibly another car or 
truck. Attack chain to one end of Handyman Jack. Attach other 
end of jack to car spring or bumper if VERY securely fastened and 
work jack to pull car out. i.e. Jack is horizontal. This really works 
as jack will pull car at least 3 or 4 feet with each setting. Shorten 
chain and repeat as necessary. Carrying one of these jacks and a 100 
ft. length of chain may save a $20 towing bill! And in some parts 
of this country there just aren’t tow trucks or phones available. 
Maj. Lyman F. Barry 
Nunda, New York 
ai 
| 
~ 
Portable Hand Spotlight 
‘ 35,000 candlepower— 
chrome finish. Plugs into 
any standard auto 
cigarette lighter. 
y ~~ -9? CORD 
$5.95, postpaid 
Sigma 
PHS, 
ws 
"And so the President comes in with all this give away. Of 
course now he did have to do something, !et’s give the devil his 
due. And the people did get a little something to eat out of it 
which they had to have, and here | am on my way to get on the 
Happy Pappys if they'll have me. 
But what | mean is, everybody 
talked about how good it was of the President to do that, how 
kind it was of him to send in the food stamps and start the Happy 
Pappys. Oh he was smart, you neen to doubt it. One day they 
was about to revolute, the next they’re glad to‘draw a dollar and 
a half an hour. And top it all, here comes the President’s wife 
down in a jet plane to show how concerned her and her husband 
was for_all the hungry people. They lined up by the thousands 
just to get a look at her ride by in a big car.. Parked up yonder 
in front of the courthouse, got up on a truck bed and made a 
little speech about how beautiful these old hills are. And how fine 
the people are, how rugged and independent and so forth all 
the hillbillies are. And her supposed to be so beautiful. 
| didn’t 
think she was so beautiful. Why that woman was so bow-legged 
she couldn't hem a hog up ina pen. 
| felt about half sorry for her, 
1 declare | did. Me on welfare, her richer’n Jay Goo, and | felt 
sorry for her because her legs was bowed. A man’s got to be 
about half crazy to go around thinking like that, Ill swear it.” 
251 
(continued) 
Off Road 
Nomadics 
