The User’s Guide to the Protection of the 
: 
Environment 
The consumer has more power for good or ill than the 
voter. All of us ecologically-concerned citizens have 
frets 
of creeping hypocrisy when we enter the supermarket all 
unknowing or half-knowing about the effect of our 
purchases and refusals to purchase. 
This book is a fret-reducer. /t defines daily virtuous 
' behaviour toward ecological Good. 
—SB 
The User’s Guide to the Protection of the Environment 
Paul Swatek 
1970; 312 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
Ballantine Books, Inc. 
101 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10003 
Pie oles te pha) hun Sait AES niga 
Earth Tool Kit 
From Environmental Action in DC comes a handy guide for 
political action toward eco-good. Pretty skilled information 
here. 
—SB 
Earth Tool Kit 
Sam Love, ed. 
1971; 366 pp. 
$1 25 postpaid 
from: 
Environmental Action 
Room 731 
1346 Connecticut Ave, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20036 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The Environmental Handbook 
The Environmental Handbook as “the bible” of New Conservation. 
Paul Ehrlich, the others, as prophets predicting the literal end of 
the world. Ecology Action, the others, as young disciples working 
zealously to save it. The Survival Walk from Sacramento to-L.A. 
as a modern version of the crusades. 
The public outcry against 
pollution as an evangelical call to cast out evil. San Jose State 
students actually burying a devil alive, in the form of a new 
Maverick. 
While Lynn White Jr. says: “Human ecology is deeply conditioned 
by beliefs about our nature and destiny~—that is, by religion. ... 
The victory of Christianity over paganism was the greatest psychic 
revolution in the history of our culture. ...We continue today to 
live, as we have lived for about 1700 years, very largely in a context 
of Christian axioms. ...Christianity, in absolute contrast to 
ty 
ancient paganism and Asia’s religions. 
. .not only established a 
dualism of man and nature but also insisted that it is God’s will 
that man exploit nature for his proper ends. ... [Christians] 
are superior to nature, contemptuous of it, willing to use it for 
our slightest whim.” 
Conservation asking Christian America to quit being Christian 
America, America saying can’t, | need the money. 
Psychic revolution. Beginnings of religious war. 
Christ a spate- 
age anti-Christ. 
Battle in the cockpit. 
Veer left, veer right 
66,000 miles an hour. 
Off course! Quick! Somebody grab the 
wheel! 
[Reviewed by Gurney Norman] 
Ecotactics 
The Sierra Club’s paperback Ecotactics was published two months 
after Friends of the Earth brought out The Environmental Hana- 
book. 
The difference shows, but not enough to hurt. 
If The Hand- 
book hadn’t got there first, Ecotactics would be a hot item indeed. 
It’s not quite as punchy as The Handbook but it’s got a lot of good 
stuff in it, most of it by ecology writers | hadn’t heard of before, 
which | consider a virtue. 
| mean, I’ve heard Paul Ehrlich and 
Rene Dubos and other big guns who appear prominently in The 
Handbook. 
| know what they have to say. It’s encouraging to see 
just how many good young writers the whole ecology thing is 
producing. Since both books cost only 95 cents, the serious 
ecology revolutionary by all means ought to have copies of each. 
They complement each other, sort of fill in each other’s holes. 
For example, The Handbook contains Gary Snyder’s now famous 
environmental manifesto, “Four Changes”, while Ecotactics 
presents a short article about Snyder himself, as aman, poet anda 
naturalist. 
Both statements deserve wide audiences. So do both 
the books as wholes. 
[Reviewed by Gurney Norman] 
BSB BRS RE BERR ESSERE 
Reese eeee ee 
The Tassajara Ecological Thoroughness Prize 
is awarded to the students at Tassajara Zen Center, who drink their 
dish water. When you finish eating, a lady student pours hot water 
into your biggest dish. 
You take your elegant little cleaning stick 
and scour the inside of the bowl, then pour the water into your 
smaller dish and dry the first dish. 
You repeat the process into 
your third and smallest dish, scour it, and then drink the water, 
which is a sort of garbage tea, tasty and nutritious. 
4 
—SB 
Ecolo gy Action 
Whole & 
ystems 
; 
’ 
ca 
WATER CONSERVATION IN THE HOME 
Minimize the amount of water you use and the waste burden 
you impose on the sewer system. 
Fix leaky faucets and tiolets. The steady flow uses up a considerable 
considerable volume. 
Food waste disposal units are about as ecologically unsound as an 
appliance can get. A disposal unit will increase the load you impose 
on the sewage system by 25%.... 
Plant lawn covers and shrubs that will be able to get along with a 
minimal amount of sprinkling. 
Don’t move where the water is scarce. 
Don‘t use your sink as a dump. Refrain from washing garbage, 
detergents, and chemicals (e.g. Drano) into the sewers as much as 
you can. 
Never use pesticides in such a way that they could contaminate 
either ground or surface water. 
Don’t use salts in the winter to free walkways of ice. This Practice #) 
is ruining a growing number of wells in New England. 
e 
.If the options are traveling in an old jalopy with two passengers 
and a driver, taking a half-full bus, a-half-full plane, or a half-full 
train, the options would rank: 
train (12 gm/100 passenger mileals 
ere eR: (27), jet (160), and auto (2666) in terms of CO emissions. 
The press release is, in effect, a news article. 
It must be clear, 
interesting, readable and to the point. 
In its first sentence (the 
lead), five questions should be answered——who, what, when, 
where, and why. Reporters will essentially be rewriting a press 
release for their articles if there are no other facts at hand, and 
everything they need should be included. 
If the lead is clear 
and informative, local radic stations may also use it in their 
hourly reports. 
; 
To be effective, the press release must also be timely. One of 
the media’s strictest rules is the deadline, and this must always be 
taken into account. 
For morning papers, the deadline is around 
7:00 P.M.; for evening papers, around noon; and for evening 
television news, about 4:00 P.M. Reporters should receive re- 
leases substantially ahead of the deadline, preferably by several 
days if the information is available. Releases should be marked 
“press release’”” and should include a release, date, or a time when 
they are to be announced. Groups must also include on every 
release the name and telephone number of a person who can be 
contacted for further information or any questions. For best 
results, the envelope should be addressed to the attention of a 
sympathetic newsman. 
The Environmental Handbook 
Garrett De Bell, editor 
—{— 
OME 
HANDBO 
te 
1970; 365 pp. 
$.95 
postpaid 
‘from: 
Ballantine Books 
101 Fifth Avenue 
New York, New York 10003 
ANTED BY 
GARRETT EEL «=«|:«| or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The phrase, ‘’health of the environment’ is not a literary con- 
vention. It has a real biological meaning, because the surface of 
the earth is truly a living organism. Without the countless and 
immensely varied forms of life that the earth harbors, our planet 
would be just another fragment of the universe with a surface as 
drab as that of the moon and an atmosphere inhospitable to man. 
We human beings exist and enjoy life only by virtue of the 
conditions created and maintained on the surface of the earth by 
the microbes, plants and animals that have converted its 
inanimate matter into a highly integrated living structure. Any 
profound disturbance in the ecological equilibrium is a threat 
to the maintenance of human life as we know it now. 
- 
Rene DuBos 
Ecotactics 
1970; 287 pp. 
$1.95 postpaid 
from: 
Simon and Schuster, Inc. 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, New York 10020 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Youth must develop an investigative approach to the problems of 
pollution. 
It is one of the most basic prerequisites. Not only 
must there be a close analysis of corporate statements, and period- 
icals, annual reports, patents, correspondence, court records, 
regulations, technical papers, Congressional hearings and agency 
reports and transcripts, but there must be a search for the dissenting 
company engineer, the conscience-stricken house lawyer, the 
° 
concerned retiree or ex-employee, the knowledgeable worker 
- 
and the fact-laden supplier of the industry or company under study. 
They are there somewhere. They must be located. 
Ralph Nader 
The Voter’s Guide to Environmental Politics - 
Read this book if you intend to recycle wastes, write letters 
to politicians and business leaders, testify in court actions, 
— 
design posters, raise and donate money, use public trans- 
portation, walk precincts, limit the size of your family, and — 
vote intelligently. 
[Reviewed by Richard Raymond) 
The Voter’s Guide to Environmental Polities 
: 
Garrett De Bell, ed. 
1970; 314 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT. 
Ballantine Books, !nc. 
101 Fifth Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
The Friends of the Earth chart on how your congressmen vote on 
critical environmental issues, reprinted in this book, is available asa 
wall chart at 50¢ from Friends of the Earth, 917 15th Street N.W., 
Washington, D.C. 20005. Evaluations of congressmen are done by ~ 
many other organizations and you would do well to get the ones 
from any organization which you feel represents your interests. 
All of these voting record analyses must be used with discretion 
because of the problems, discussed in the chapters on Congress in 
this book, that many key votes are not recorded and congressmen 
often change their vote when they know it will be recorded asa roll . 
call vote. Hopefully, the bill now in progress to require all votes 
to be recorded as roll call votes will pass before the end of this 
Congress so you can know your congressman’s position more 
fully. 
° 
Several complicated measuring and monitoring devices exist to 
_ detect the presence of lead, boron hydrides, arsine, hydrogen 
~ 
floride, combustible gases, and other potentially harmful substances. 
Some other companies which should be contacted for information 
are: 
. 
Foxboro Company 
367 Neponset Avenue 
Foxboro, Mass. 02035 
Mast Development Company 
2212 East 12th Street 
Davenport, lowa 52803 
Technicon Industrial Systems 
Dept 104 
Tarrytown, New York 10591 
Analytic Instrument Development, Inc. 
250 South Franklin Street 
West Chester, Pennsylvania 19380 
= 
Micronesian-“‘out-islander” in particular—that is, those who live 
— 
across a hundred miles or more of sea from any neighboring islands, 
and whose contact with the rest of the world is limited to the few 
— 
souls who arrive on the eighty foot government boat every six 
months—simply don’t think about infinity, or to put it more 
accurately, the idea that everything is possible. 
In order to. survive out there by themselves, they’ve had to gain a 
pretty good feeling for pacing the breadfruit production and the 
coconut eating. In some of those places the highest crime is 
* 
cutting down a coconut tree without communal permission. 
Jerry Mander 
Tat 
By conventional bookkeeping methods, for example, the coal companies 
— 
strip-mining away the hillsides of Kentucky and West Virginiashowa 
handsome profit. Their ledgers, however, show only a fraction of the 
true cost of their operations. They take no account of destroyed land 
which can never bear another crop; of rivers poisoned by mud and 
seeping acid from the spoil banks; of floods which sweep over farms 
and towns downstream, because the ravaged slopes can no longer 
hold the rainfall. 
John Fischer. 
<3 
Sack 
BEBE BBE SRBEBSBRBSRBERBEBSBERBRERBSERBRBRRERBRERSESHEES 
¥ 
Atrocity 
i 
Last week | saw some copies of The Environmental Hand- ‘ee 
burned. Their front covers had been torn off and returned — 
to the distributor for refund. The books had beenonthe 
~— 
- 
shelves too long without being sold, so they had to be dis- 
posed of to keep the stock moving. It was too expensive to — 
BURNED! The bookstore manager said that in about 6 
months when demand had built up, he would order more 
copies of the book, which of course would be new, meaning — 
that more trees had been cut down for paper, etc. | sure 
hope WEC doesn’t operate this way. 
Pat Patterson 
Austin, Texas 
We don’t. 
It’s the difference between “mass distribution” 
and “quality distribution”. All newstand periodicals and 
most paperbacks are mass distributed, and are destroyed’ 
rather than returned. With Book People and with Random 
~ 
House we have had quality distribution. All returns and — 
over-runs we try to give to'prisons, schools, and libraries. 
— 
—SB- 
P.S. Our printer Bob Parks says that paper suppliers are 
very quick to tell you you‘re buying recycled paper. If you 
want to be sure you had better personally check their pro- 
cess. | haven’ t checked ours. 
book (Ballantine) being carted out of 
abook storetobe 
= 
ship them back to the publisher; the distributor had no room 4 
to store them; so they were being burned——not recycled—— 
