ee 
Tits for Tots 
\'d like to see La Leche League added to the Catalog, right 
in there with Dr. Spock. The-League is a non-profit 
organization of nursing mothers, whose purpose is to 
encourage and counsel other women who want to breast- 
feed their babies. They feel that nursing a baby is an art, 
best learned from someone who has done it. Most women 
these days find their doctors, hospitals, relatives, and 
really be a help in standing up against them. 
Chapters include suggestions 
on how to prepare the breasts, 
how to get reluctant hospitals 
to cooperate with breastfeeding, 
-~| 
how father can help, and weaning 
processes. 
In our opinion the book 
represents the most complete and 
useful information available concern- 
ing breastfeeding. 
They publish a “manual,” THE WOMANLY ART OF 
BREASTFEEDING ($3.00 paperback, $4.00 hardcover), 
a cookbook, MOTHER’S IN THE KITCHEN ($4.00), 
and the bimonthly LA LECHE LEAGUE NEWS 
($2.75 a year), all available from: 
La Leche 
League International, 9616 Minneapolis Ave., 
Franklin Park, IL. 60131 
Local League groups in most parts of the USA and in some 
other countries meet to talk over the advantages and the 
problems of breastfeeding and to trade experiences. The 
central office can tell you where the nearest group is or 
can tell you how to start your own; they’ll give you 
telephone numbers of League mothers to call for help. 
‘I'd add from my own experience that nursing a baby is 
a great trip and that the League, though its composition 
varies from place ta place, usually attracts interesting 
women whose concern is for PEOPLE more than things 
or images. 
Christine Mulford 
Snugli Baby Carrier 
This is the most useful baby carrier | have ever seen. /t can 
be used with a day-old baby, because of the head support, 
as well as a 2 year old—but not simultaneously since 
to enlarge the pack tucks are taken out as the baby grows. 
A Snugli provides a mother with a baby carrier that allows 
her to have both hands free. New mothers can attend 
classes, work, shop, do housework, etc. without having to 
find a babysitter. Needless to say babies love it. /f you 
can’t stand to live with a colicky baby, put it in this 
pack and fix dinner or whatever. 
The Snugli is of extremely high quality (will bear several 
machine washings and dryings per week and teething; 
being stuffed in purses and being left in the rain.) It is 
very comfortable as long as the shoulder straps are kept 
tight so that the weight is not carried on the small of the 
back. 
/ recommend this as second only to diapers to prospective 
. 
parents. 
[Reviewed by Mary Jane Markley. 
Suggested by Chris Brown] 
Snugli Baby Carrier 
$35.95 postpaid 
from: 
Snugli Cottage Industries 
Route 1, Box 685 
Evergreen, Colorado 80439 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Baby Stuff 
Community 
220 
The Womanly Art of Breastfeeding 
Want to nurse your baby? The Womanly 
Art of Breastfeeding prepared by the 
La Leche League offers a complete 
guide of “how to”, as well as a 
philosophical treatise on “why 
friends and terrifically bottle-oriented and the League can 
to”. 
Che Womanly Art 
of Breastfeeding 
[Reviewed by Jane Stallings. 
Suggested by Christine Mulford] 
Nursing Your Baby 
Nursing Your Baby by Karen Pryor (Harper & Row 1963— $6.95) 
which you really ought to list by the way, has a picture of a baby 
carrier fashioned from 2 yards of fabric— we took 1/2 an old sheet 
and tied it appropriately, and discovered that it is much more 
confortable than even the Peterson carrier. 
This ata maximum cost 
of $1 if you buy a 2 yard remnant. My sister with her super big 
little boy couldn’t use a back carrier once he got over 15 lbs (quite 
young), until she started to use a bedspread folded African style. 
So— why don’t you ask the SNUGLI reviewers to try the cloth 
folding (which more people could afford) and see if they don’t like 
it as well. If they do, we have a cheaper and easier to obtain tool. 
Nursing Your Baby by Karen Pryor— In my opinion is a more 
complete & useful compendium of 
information on breastfeeding 
than even The Womanly Art of Breastfeeding. The Womanly 
Art... .has a sexist bias that woman’s place is in the home and who 
would ever want time off from her baby? Karen Pryor is more 
realistic. 84 hour weeks get to be a drag, particularly when they 
are a drastic change from an autonomous, intellectual state. She 
has all the same facts as The Womanly. . .an more. 
The book is 
not written in such a soap opera mystical style— Aw! just read it, 
and you'll know what I mean! 
This is not to put down La Leche League— they are one of the 
greatest single forces enabling women to succeed in breastfeeding 
today. If you want to breastfeed, and don’t have at least 2 close 
friends who did for at least 6 months, you stand a better chance 
if you'll find your local La Leche & join. Not that breastfeeding ts 
intrinsically difficult. 
It’s the knownothing doctors & neighbors 
that make it so. 
Also in paperback, $1.25. 
Pocket Books 
I West 39th St. 
New York, N.Y. 10018 
Lynne Gale 
Arlington, VA. 
Swedish Milk Cups 
For nursing mothers, these are a real boon, especially during 
the first few months after birth when your breasts have not 
completely regulated themselves to your baby’s needs. 
Swedish Milk Cups are made out of strong boilable plastic 
and are composed of two pieces. The front part looks like 
a hubcap with a small air hole at the top. The back part 
looks like a very thin warped donut. They fit together 
securely and fit over the nipple inside a nursing bra. What 
they do is collect excess milk. That means you can sleep 
through the night without waking up ina pool of milk, 
which often happens at first when your baby gives up the 
middle-of-the-night feeding. 
| used the extra milk for mixing with our baby’s cereal, or 
| froze it to have on hand to leave with babysitters. 
| wish 
| had had milk cups when my milk first came in, two days 
after birth.” | was engorged (a common occurence) with 
too much milk and was quite uncomfortable for three days. 
The milk cups press-lightly on the areola (the milk duct 
area around the nipple), and if your breasts are too full, they 
alleviate the situation by squeezing extra milk out. 
They are also excellent to use in the treatment of sore or 
infected nipples because they keep pressure off the nipples 
and allow air circulation. And they are good for people 
with flat or inverted nipples. Wear them during your last 
month of pregnancy. 
|. am now in my ninth month of nursing our baby and | 
still wear mine occasionally. 
| attribute the never ending 
milk supply to healthy eating and nutritional yeast. 
Swedish Milk Cups can be ordered from Marianne Alstrom, 
34 Sunrise Ave., Mill Valley, CA 94941, 388-3660. They 
cost $7.95 which includes tax & postage, and are worth 
every penny. 
Jeanie Darlington 
Miranda, California 
Teething Biscuits 
Teething biscuits: I use Milkbone Dog Biscuits, they are not 
crumbly, gooey, sugary. 
They are,.the right size and shape, and are 
made of mere healthful ingredients. Any other dog biscuits would 
probably serve as well. 
Barbara Bauer Schenker 
The Womantly 
Art of Breastfeeding 
1958, 1963; 166 pp. 
" 
$3.00 postpaid from: 
La Leche League International 
9616 Minneapolis Ave. 
Franklin Park, IL 60131 
We who nurse our babies have often been agreeably surprised to note 
that when the rest of the family comes down with a cold or flu, the 
baby remains free of it, or has only a mild case. Studies have shown 
that breastfeeding definitely prolongs the period of natural immunity 
to virus diseases. These include mumps, measles, polio, some kinds of 
pneumonia and other respiratory infections, and some diarrhea. 
e 
Many studies indicate that nursing your baby will improve your 
chances of avoiding breast cancer. 
& 
Won't Nursing Spoil the Shape of My Breasts? 
On the contrary; if breastfeeding has any effect, it will be to improve 
your figure. The bugbear here is the fear of developing pendulous 
breasts. Proper support during pregnancy and the avoidance of 
obesity (both needed whether you plan to nurse or not) are all 
that is necessary to keep you in good shape. 
Nuk Orthodontic Exerciser 
Pacifiers are something babies love and parents worry about. 
Most pacifiers are made in such a way which may 
cause the 
baby’s mouth to maladapt as it grows, which may result in 
dental problems later. The Nuk pacifier was designed by an 
orthodontist, originally, as a theraputic too! for correcting 
oral abnormalities. 
It is constructed so that every aspect of 
it has a precise function, and thus aids the proper develop- 
ment of a baby’s mouth and teeth. In addition, it is also 
boil-able; it contains no goo to ooze out and concern mother; 
and 3rdly, the shield is shaped like a happy baby smile——no 
more of that “plugged” look! The Nuk Orthodontic Exer- 
ciser can be found in discount department and drug stores 
from 44-49 cents. 
It is available from the manufacturer at 
its standard price of 59 cents (Reliance Products Corporation, 
Woonsocket, Rhode Island) Item No. 530. 
! 
[Reviewed by Barbara Bauer Schenker. 
Suggested by Lisa Law] 
7 
a as 
— of 
EA e 
S 
1. Soft, hollow oral baglet collapses and expands 
readily during sucking and oral actions. 
a. Broad, curved top (palate) side conforms 
to palate and arch of mouth. 
b. Tongue rests in proper position on bottom 
or concave side. 
c. Forward inclined planes contact upper 
' 
and lower arch elements and collapse and 
expand during sucking. 
2. 
Flat passage encourages baby to close lips 
and helps nasal breathing. 
; 
3. Curved shield gives indirect contact with upper 
dental arch through firm contact with upper tip. 
Angled position of baglet leaves free space be- 
tween lower part of shield and lower lip, thereby 
allowing jaw to work forward and backward. 
Population Services 
Here’s a non-profit organization which supplies contraceptives, 
at low cost, by mail. Condoms and contraceptive foam are 
their main items, but they also have several books and 
publications with useful information and low prices. They 
have a policy of charging lower prices to young and unmarried 
people. 
—Hal Hershey 
Items: 
1. We no longer have the Twentisec Pregnancy Test kit as it 
wasn’t reliable enough. 
2. We are starting up on a mail-in pregnancy 
test service— 2 to 4 day results depending on the mailman. 
3. We 
had to split our non-profit and sales operation thanks to good old 
IRS. Sales are now through Population Planning Associates, P.O. 
Box 2556, WE1, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27514. 
4. We'd like 
to offer a ten percent reduction on all prices to all Whole Earth 
F 
Catalog readers. 
5. We have gotten exclusive distribution rights 
to two fine English condoms and now carry Naturalambs too (see 
enclosed blurbs). 
We'll be supplying a couple of more top brands 
soon. 
6. Note our sample package——it’s going good. 
Peace, 
Diana L. Altman 
Population Services, Inc. 
Information 
from: 
Population Services, Inc. 
P.O. Box 1205 
Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27514 
Condoms 
1 Dozen 
3 Dozen 
_ 12 Dozen 
Sultan, Plain Transparent 
$2.45 
$4.95 
$14.00 
Sultan, Wet Lube Opaque $2.55 
$5.25 
$15.00 
Koin-Pak Gold Foil Coins $2.75 
$5.50 
$16.00 
The Hugger Form Fit Dry $2.75 
$5.50 
$16.00 
The Conture Sjlcone Lube 
\ 
Formed 
$3.00 
$6.00 
$18.00 
The Trojan, The 
7 
Old Favorite 
$3.00 
$6.00 
$18.00 
Foams 
EMKO Complete Foam 
$2.75 
Kit 
EMKO Aerosol Refill 
$2.55 
(45 gm.) 
; 
