_ Synthesis of Form 
aad 
* 
hristopher Alexander is a design person that 
_ other design people refer to a lot. This book 
deals with the nature of current design prob- 
__ lems that are expanding clear beyond any 
__ individual’s ability to know and correlate all 
the factors. 
The methodology presented here 
is one of analysis of a problem for misfits and 
synthesis of form (via computer-translatable 
nets and hierarchies) for minimum misfits. 
—SB 
_ 
[from the table of contents] 
_ 2. Goodness of Fit 
15 
3. The Source of Good Fit 
28 
. The Unselfconscious Process 
46 
5. The Selfconscious Process 
55 
But if we think of the requirements from a negative 
point of view, as potential misfits, there is a simple 
way of picking a finite set. This is because it is 
_ through misfit that the problem originally brings 
_ 
itself to our attention. We take just those relations 
_ between form and context which obtrude most 
strongly, which demand attention most clearly, 
____ which seem most likely to go wrong. We cannot do 
| 
_ better than this. If there were some intrinsic way of 
reducing the list of requirements to a few, this would 
__mean in essence that we were in possession of a field 
BE; description of the context: if this were so, the prob- 
_ lem of creating fit would become trivial, and no long- 
ey, problem of design. We cannot have a unitary or 
field description of a context and still have a design 
er cere worth attention. 
1964; 216 pp. 
from: 
| 
a 
: 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
i en 
; 
Bie Sciences of the Artificial 
3 Simon says: we have generalized methods of obtaining 
_ elegant information from nature. We don’t have generalized 
__ methods of making elegant things to add to nature; we lack 
_ascience of design. He’s right and he doesn’t waste much 
_ time being right, but proceeds to make useful suggestions— 
R. 
lots of them probably wrong and useful anyway. His notion 
; _ of sub-system stability in evolution is beautiful. 
—SB 
The Science of the, 
Artificial 
Herbert Simon 
1969; 123 pp. 
$1 95 postpaid 
from: 
The M.1.T. Press 
Room 765 
50 Ames Street 
Cambridge, Mass. 02142 
or WHOLE 
EARTH 
CATALOG 
description. 
General ay eiorns Yearbook 
Good thinking, rotten publishing. 
The usual graphic output 
__ in this yearbook is three pallid diagrams. And you know that 
_ 
the mothers who wrote the articles are forever whacking away 
at their blackboards, but because typewriters don’t draw, all 
_ that vivid stuff gets left in the author’s private experience. 
"Man, there’s something suspect about General Systems Theory 
the practitioners are this far out of intelligent communica- 
tion. Here’s part of the contents of a recent volume, which 
n Y alelp to vindicate matters. 
—SB 
( jeneral Systems 
dwig von Bertalanffy, Anatol Rapoport, 
ed L. Meier, eds. 
y. 0. 
00 aed per volume 
fen for General Systems Research 
- 
12613 Bunting Lane 
Bowie, Md. 20715 
NOTES 
SYNTHES 
OF FORM 
CHRISTOPHER 
$2.95 postpaid 
Harvard University Press 
79 Garden Street 
Cambridge, Mass. 02138 
lf a complex structure is completely unredundant—if-no_ aspect of its 
structure can be inferred from any other—then it is its own simplest 
S ON THE 
IS 
a circle round them. 
ALEXANDER 
Notes on the Synthesis of Form 
Christopher Alexander 
organized that adjustment caw take place in each one of these 
subsystems independently. 
The Evolution of Complex Systems 
Let me introduce the topic of evolution with a parable. There once 
were two watchmakers, named Hora and Tempus, who manufactured 
very fine watches. Both of them were highly regarded, and the 
phones in their workshops rang frequently—new customers were 
constantly calling them. However, Hora prospered, while Tempus 
became poorer and poorer and finally lost his shop. What was the 
reason? 
The watches the men made consisted of about 1,000 parts each. 
Tempus had so constructed his that if he had one partly assembled 
and had to put it down—to answer the phone, say—it immediately 
feil to pieces and had to be reassembled from the elements. The 
better the customers liked his watches, the more they phoned him 
and the more difficult it became for him to find enough pimnterruptod 
time to finish a watch. 
The watches that Hora made were no less complex than those of 
Tempus. But he had designed them so that he could put together 
subassemblies of about ten elements each. Ten of these subassem- 
blies, again, could be put together into a larger subassembly; and a 
system of ten of the latter subassemblies constituted the whole 
watch. Hence, when Hora had to put down a partly assembled 
watch in order to answer the phone, he lost only a small part of his 
work, and he assembled his watches in only a fraction of the man- 
hours it took Tempus. 
Most of the complex structures found in the world are enormously 
redundant, and we can use this redundancy to simplify their 
description. But to use it, to achieve the simplification, we must 
find the right representation. 
PART |. METHODOLOGY 
Science and System: On the Unity and Diversity of 
Scientific Theory 
by Peter Caws 
’ 
An Approach to General Systems Theory 
by George J. Klir 
Concerning the Analysis of Initial Principles and 
Conceptions of Formal Logic 
by G. P. Schedrovitsky 
PART !1. CONTROL THEORY 
Technosphere, Biosphere, and Sociosphere: An Approach 
to Their Systems and Optimization 
by J. H. Milsum 
Representation and Analysis of Signals: Statistical Estimation 
of Intrinsic Dimensionality and Parameter Identification 
by Gerard. V. Trunk 
Notes for a Generalized Theory of Interfaces 
by E. Taschdjian 
Toward a Theory of Teleogenetic Control Systems 
by N. A. Coulter, Jr. 
The Relevance of Arms Race Theory to Arms Control 
by P. E. Chase 
Uncoupling Spatial Systems 
= 
by Roslyn Lindheim 
Indeed, not only is the man who lives in the form 
the one who made it, but there is a special closeness 
of contact between man and form which leads to 
constant rearrangement of unsatisfactory detail, 
constant improvement. The man, already respons- 
ible for the original shaping of the form, is also 
alive to its demands while he inhabits it. And any- 
thing which needs to be changed is changed at once. 
A subsystem, roughly speaking, is one of the obvious 
components of the system, like the parts shown with 
If we try to adjust a set of vari- 
ables which does not constitute a subsystem, the re- 
percussions of the adjustment affect others outside 
the set. because the set is not sufficiently independent. 
The procedure ot the unselfconcious svstem is so 
This is the reason for its success. 
In the selfconscious situation, on the other hand, the de 
signer is faced with all the variables simultaneously. 
‘The greatest clue to the inner structure of any 
dynamic process lies in its reaction to change. 
The Mousgoum cannot afford, as we do, to regard 
maintenance as a nuisance which is best forgotten 
until it is time to call the local plumber. 
|t is in the 
same hands as the building operation itself, and its 
exigencies are as likely to shape the form as those 
of the initial construction. 
The selfconscious individual's grasp of problems is 
constantly misled. His concepts and categories, be- 
sides being arbitrary and unsuitable, are self-perpet- 
uating. Under the influence of concepts, he not only 
does things from a biased point of view, but sees them 
biasedly as well. The concepts control his perception of 
of fit and misfit—intil in the end he sees nothing but 
deviations from his conceptyal dogmas, and loses not 
only the urge but even the mental opportunity to 
frame his problems more appropriately. 
The solution of a design problem is really only 
another effort to find a unified description. The 
search for realization through constructive diagrams 
is an effort to understand the required form so fully 
that there is no longer a rift between its functional 
specification and the shape it takes. 
Two misfits are seen to interact only because, in 
some sense at least, they deal with the same kind 
of physical consideration. ........ 
It is such a physical center of implication, if | may 
cali it that, which the designer finds it easy to grasp. 
Because it refers to a distinguishable physical prop- 
erty or entity, it can be expressed diagrammatically, 
and provides a possible non-verbal point of entry 
into the problem. 
The Artifact as Interface’ 
We can view the matter quite symmetrically. An artifact can be 
thought of as a meeting point—an ‘interface’ in today’s terms— 
between an ‘inner’ environment, the substance and organization of 
the artifact itself, and an ‘outer’ environment, the surroundings in 
which it operates. 
If the inner environment is appropriate to the 
outer environment, or vice versa, the artifact will serve its intended 
Purpose. Thus, if the clock is immune to buffeting, it will serve as a 
ship’s chronometer.. 
(And conversely, if it isn’t, we may salvage it by 
mounting it on the mantel at home.) 
| should like to point to evidence that there are only a few ‘intrinsic’ 
characteristics of the inner environment of thinking man that limit 
the adaptation of his thought to the shape of the problem environ- 
ment. 
All else in his thinking and problem-solving behavior is 
artificial—is learned and is subject to improvement through the 
invention of improved designs. 
D.R. was on his knees next to Estelle, digging in a duffle 
bag. A light would have helped but Urge’s overhead light was 
out, and D.R.-didn’t know where the flashlight was. 
"Here, honey, light this candle,” said Estelle, and she handed 
him a candle. 
But somehow climbing through the general debris to get to 
the back, D.R. had lost the matches. 
He yelled goddamn it! as 
loud as he could yell. 
"Shhh, honey, it’s all right. What are you looking for?” 
“I'm looking for the goddamn dope that | had in my goddamn 
hand not six goddamn hours ago. 
That’s what I‘m looking for.” 
And he lifted the duffle bag by its bottom and dumped its con- 
tents on top of the other stuff already scattered over the mattress. 
Estelle found a match and lit it. The whole wild interior of 
the bus came alive for 
a moment, but quickly began to fade. 
“Give me the candle,” said Estelle. 
“Where is it?” 
“| handed it to you.” 
D.R. felt’ around his knees and legs, and in the pile of stuff 
he’d just dumped out. 
But all he could find was a broken 
screw driver. 
He held it up, looked at it, then threw it as hard 
as he could toward the front. 
‘Fuck it!” he yelled, and 
strangled himself on the yell. 
It was as if something had seized 
his throat and choked him. 
Falling onto his side D.R. grabbed 
the handle of the side doors and threw them open, then tumbled 
in a heap outside into the rain. 
Estelle was out of her sleeping 
bag by the time he hit the ground. 
“Honey, what’s wrong?” 
“| can't breathe!” he gasped. 
‘That space in that bus. 
. 
- 
“Honey, it’s fine in here. Come on back in, you're getting 
wet.” 
D.R. got to his feet and tried to wipe the mud off his 
knees. 
But that only smeared it more. 
‘What a goddamn mess.” 
“Get in, baby, lie down. 
I'll drive awhile, and you can get 
some sleep.” 
D.R. did not seem persuaded, but he obeyed. 
Estelle closed 
the door behind him, then guided him toward the far end of 
the mattress. 
“Where’s my sleeping bag?”’ D.R. asked. 
“Get in mine. Come on, now.” 
“| want mine.” he whined. 
“Where is it?” 
“It's on the floor half full of pork and beans, that’s where. 
Now come on back here.” 
D.R. was too confused to argue. 
Estelle pulled off his 
sandals and got his feet pointed into the sleeping bag. 
He 
wiggled on down inside, feeling the dark warmth of Estelle’s 
body become his own deep in the interior of the bag. 
” 
General Systems 
Whole Systems 
