i and deep access to top scientists from the East such as 
_ Suzuki Roshi, Meher Baba, Bapak, Krishnamurti, Tarthang 
_Tulku, and others. Jacob Needleman, young head of the 
Philosophy Department at San Francisco State, has perceived 
_ their various convergent messages and assembled a th oroughly 
P 
useful catalog. 
He’s as serious as any student, and he knows 
[ more than one thing at a time. 
| hope he will expand a later 
| edition of the book to include Gurdjieff, the Native American 
| Church, and the whole Sufi number. 
' The New Religions 
Jacob Needleman 
. 
|| 1970; 245 pp. 
| $1.50 
‘postpaid 
| from: 
4 
| Simon & Schuster, Inc. 
| One West 39th Street 
| New York, NY 10018 
| Attn. Order Dept. 
| or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
| The contemporary disillusionment with religion has revealed itself 
|| to be a religious disillusionment. Men are moving away from the 
| forms and trappings of Judaism and Christianity not because they 
have stopped searching for transcendental answers to the 
|| fundamental questions of human life, but because that search 
| has now intensified beyond measure. 
| It has been said that every time and place has its own despair. The 
| despair of California is the despair of people relentlessly getting 
| what they want. 
) 
At Tassajara, however, one comes to see monasticism not asa 
flight from society, but to society. The principle difference between 
the monastic society and ours is surely not that ours is more real, 
| but that in this monastery. everyone has a common aim. Moreover, 
this aim is for themselves: each to awaken to his true nature, each 
to find “‘his own way.” 
In such a community, there exists a constant danger that in the 
name of charity and kindness someone will find my way for me, 
will directly or indirectly 
tell me what to do, what is good and 
what bad. As a result, | may find a way, but not my own way; | will 
| discover a nature, but not necessarily my own nature. 
. 
. 
Some people say, ‘‘If we have a perfect social construction, we will 
| not have these difficulties.” But as long as there is human nature, 
| nothing will help us: On the contrary, the more human culture 
|| advances, the more difficulties we will have in our life. The 
| advancement of civilization will accelerate this contradiction in 
| our nature. When we realize the absolute presence of our contradictory 
| nature, the way-seeking mind arises, and we begin to work on 
| ourselves instead of the material world. Most people who are interested 
in Buddhism are more or less critical of our social condition, 
|| expecting a better social framework. 
% 
| 
e 
3 
| Baba was sitting on his bed. Naked from the waist up. | think 
| there were two other men in the room. And Baba just—beamed at 
| me, man, | always have difficulty talking about Baba. | mean, I'm 
| not given to having visions or hallucinations. 
For me, it was just 
‘this incredible, extraordinary light,-\ike his head was the center of 
‘it, like emanating in all directions. It filled everything. To the extend 
' that tears started forcibly coming out of my eyes like a 
| reaction to all this incredible light. 
p 
Scholarships TOUS. S.7 
5 
Be 
P 
| An old problem just plagued me again. There are lots of smart 
| 
dents in a place like Ethiopia who want to go to school in the 
{ Us. They often ask people like me (visible “‘Americans”) how to 
find schools and/or money. For schools, accesses exist, in U.S.I.S. 
libraries. But for finances (& schools characteristically ask 1 yrs 
expenses to be paid by the student —.a lot of bread for all but the 
aristocrats in, for instance, Ethiopia) they (the students) & Iam 
stymied, 
; 
i) 
if 
ut I know there exist breaded people who see the value of getting 
inds in communion world round & would personally or thru 
foundations like to help bona fide (ie. all the test scores & recom- 
endations) good students get it together. Is there some access 
info on this? 
John Morgan 
Village Technology 
Innovation Experiment 
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia 
Monday Night Class 
Steve Gaskin mixes acid, the East, vibes, his audience, 
himself, and the universe real nice. He has been doing an 
informal weekly sermon for the past year or so and this book 
is simply transcriptions of several of his raps with the 
people. Its simple and straight; it helps me stay loose. Printed 
in purple. 
[ Reviewed by Merce] 
See Epilog, page 578 
ey Beatnik” 
Monday Night Class 
Stephen 
1970 
$1 .95 postpaid 
- 
- from: 
The Farm 
Summerton, TN 38483 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Keep your attention on a single point as long as you want. 
You have to learn how to be loose to do it, it’s not a thing you 
can do if you're tight, cause if you’re tight your attention will 
tend to fidget. You gotta learn how to be just a loose observer. 
You have to really not give a damn too much about what's going 
On out there in front. You know, you gotta just look at it and dig 
it and see what it is and get the informational quality of it... 
Like you're supposed to groove. You're supposed to just really 
_ be grooving as hard as you can. There’s a Zen master thing that 
says, Although my heart is on fire, my eyes are as cold as ashes. 
You know. So then you can keep concentration really well when 
you're not attached. That's a loose place you have to be to play 
‘music or to ride a bike or any of those kind of places, where 
you have to have that loose no-mind. . 
. let it do it, concentrate 
it there, put it there in one place. Yeah. 
We're all like little energy transmuters. You know those things that 
float in swimming pools and go ssshhhwck and suck down all 
the leaves and bugs and sticks and stuff. That’s what we are. You 
wander around through the world and take in all the vibes, transmute 
‘em through serenity and what have you, good dope, and put ‘em 
back out, all vacuumed. The way we do it is that we absorb the 
body energy at this level and then transmute it... We do other 
people’s homework as if it were our own. We do the homework of 
all the people around us. That’s how we help out, you know, 
by just refining those vibes everywhere we go. 
In most square folks’ ground rules it’s considered impolite to 
notice that your conversational partner is neurotic. And what you do 
about that’s another thing. Jesus, when he was giving the instructions 
to the apostles, told ‘em when you go into a house, feel the house, 
and let your peace descend on the house, and if the house accepts 
your peace then you're cool. You stay there. But if the house 
rejects your peace go forth from that house and go forth from that 
town and shake the dust from your feet. Because there’s a whole 
lot of folks aching to know. Don’t bother arguing with somebody that 
don’t want to know. 
Laughing? | think laughing’s just free good karma. You know, all 
the time that you're laughing you're wide open, you're non-linear, 
non-directional 
. .. lt may be the highest.form of communication 
that we can do by mouth. Cause somebody can drop your cut-glass 
vase on the floor 
. 
. 
. and you can laugh and it’s cool. 
e 
And you really got to be careful about that kind of thing, cause 
when someone's drunk, a lot of their consciousness is knocked. out, 
and they’re running a lot on their subconscious. 
. 
. and they're pretty 
telepathic and stuff at that stage, drunks and kids and people like 
that, don’t ever lie to ‘em. Don’t lie to acidheads either. | t's‘a waste 
of time. 
Well, here’s the thing that is one of the basic spiritual teachings that’s 
been around for like ten or twelve thousand years... 
. and it is that 
if you just quit paying attention to bad trips, pull your juice out 
of them, that they’!I run out of juice, and they'll run down and stop. 
And they do 
that, because the karma is a little slower when 
you’re not stoned, but it’s the same karma and it works the same 
way ... 
it’s just a little slower, but it’s not a bit different than 
when you're ripped. And where you cast your head you get that 
kind of thing. As ye sow so shall ye reap. Well, that means that 
in an energy relationship if you feel that somebody’s 
On a negative trip, first you have to be accepting and free enough to 
say that they can do that if they want to. . 
. cause they got free 
will... everybody’s got free will. The next thing is that you also have 
a choice in the matter and that’s whether you pay any attention 
to it or not. And if you pay attention... this is something I‘ve found 
Out so many timestrying to take care of people who bring mea 
bad trip to sort out for them—you can straighten them and let 
go of them and they'll dive right back into it... cause they're looking 
for it, really. People who really want help, you just make a suggestion 
and they do it... and they get straight. I’ve seen that happen lots 
of times. If you put a lot of attention and energy into a down 
trip, then you're stepping on a down elevator. And the vibe may 
be exhilarating for awhile, but it gets pretty funky the farther down 
you go. 
Comix 
These ain’t your run-of-the-mill comic books. At times they 
are gross, beautiful, or violent. Best of all, they can be very 
funny, and a good reminder not to take things (such as 
yourself) too seriously. Who sez comic books ain’t relevant? 
— Steamboat 
(Adults only) 
Mail order lists from: 
Print Mint, Inc.‘ 
830. Folger Avenue 
Berkeley, California 94710 
Rip-Off Press 
Box 14158 
San Francisco, California 94114 
San Francisco Comic Book Co. 
3339 23rd Street 
San Francisco, California 94110 
Catalog $.25 
See Epilog, page 689 
“B History of 
Underground Comix’ 
Kos CH TOHRETIIT 5 
200 
Sere a 
TRUCKIN 
THE 
! ON DOWN 
a 
LING: 
HEY HEY leas 
RICK 
GRIFFIN 
TIME 
Nail. Set. Hammer. Whap. 
Set. Nail. Whap. 
How’s your blister, David? 
Not too bad. 
It’s not on my hammer hand. 
We'll get some turpentine on it when we get done here. 
Done. 
Get done. 
Two o'clock. 
Two ten. 
Nail. Set. Sweat, slick,/hand, whap. 
And then it was two eleven. 
What To Do 
Learning 
; 
