necessary changes 
in themselves, on their own. 
7 
For most of the history of this country our motto, implied 
4 or spoken, has been Think Big. | have come to believe that 
a better motto, and an essential one now, is Think Little. 
That implies the necessary change of thinking and feeling, 
4 and suggests the necessary work. Thinking Big has led us to 
the two biggest and cheapest political dodges of our time: 
a 
_ plan- -making and law-making. The lotus-eaters of this era 
are in Washington D.C., Thinking Big. Somebody comes 
up with a problem, and somebody in the. government ° 
~ comes-up with a plan or a law. The result, mostly, has 
been the persistence of the problem, and the enlargement 
pend enrichment of the government. 
~ But the discipline of thought is not generalization; it is 
: 
- detail, and it is personal behavior. While the government 
is “studying” and funding and organizing its Big Thought, 
5 Bepathing is being done. But the citizen who is willing to 
_ think little. and, accepting the discipline of that, to go 
ahead on his own, is already solving the problem. A man 
who i is trying to live as a neighbor to his neighbors will 
_ have a lively and practical understanding of the work of 
peace and brotherhood, and let there be no mistake about 
t——he is doing that work. A couple who make a good 
‘marriage, and raise healthy, morally-competent children are 
serving the world’s future more directly and surely than any 
political leader, though they never utter a public word. A 
good farmer who is dealing with the problem of soil 
erosion on an acre of ground has a sounder grasp of that 
» problem, and cares more aboutit, and is probably doing 
more to solve it than any bureaucrat who is talking about- 
“iti 
in general. A man who is willing to undertake the disci- 
pline and the difficulty of mending his own ways is worth 
more to the conservation movement than a hundred who 
a are insisting merely that the government and the industries 
_ 
_ mend their ways. 
If you are concerned about the proliferation of trash, then 
by all means start an organization in your community to do 
something about it. But before——and while——you 
_ organize, pick up some cans and bottles yourself. That way, 
at least, you will assure yourself and others that you mean 
what you say. If you are concerned about air pollution, 
help push for government controls, but drive your car less, 
_use 
less fuel in your home. !f you are worried about the 
damming of wilderness rivers, join the Sierra Club, write 
0 
the government, but turn off the lights you're not 
using, don’t install an air conditioner, don’t be a sucker for 
electrical gadgets, don’t waste water. In other words, if 
- you are fearful of the destruction of the environment, then 
learn to quit being an environmental parasite. We all are, 
in one way or another, and the remedies are not always 
obvious, though they certainly will always be difficult. 
They require a new kind of life-—harder, more laborious, 
poorer in luxuries and gadgets, but also, | am certain, 
richer in meaning and more abundant in real pleasure. To 
have a healthy environment we will all have to give up 
things we like; we may even have to give up things we 
have come to think of as necessities. But to be fearful of: 
he disease and yet unwilling to pay for the cure is not just 
to be hypocritical; it is to be doomed. If you talk a good 
line without being changed by what you say, then you are 
not just hypocritical and doomed; you have become an agent 
- of the disease. Consider, 
for an example, the President, who 
advertises 
his grave concern about the destruction of the 
— 
environment, and who turns up the air conditioner to make 
_ 
it cool enough to build a fire. 
BS: Odd as | am sure it will appear to some, | can think of no 
better form of personal involvement in the cure of the 
vironment than that of gardening. A person who is grow- 
g a garden, if he is growing it organically, is improving a 
ece of the world. He is producing something to eat, which 
aakes him somewhat independent of the grocery business, 
ut he is also enlarging, for himself, the meaning of food and 
_ the pleasure of eating. The food he grows will be fresher, 
more nutritious, less contaminated by poisons and preserva- 
ives and dyes, than what he can buy at astore. Heis 
— 
reducing the trash problem; a garden is not a disposable 
yntainer, and it will digest and re-use its own wastes... 
If 
enjoys working in his garden, then he is less dependent 
, 
_ 0n an automobile or a merchant for his pleasure. He is 
involving himself directly in the work of feeding people. 
ev6u think I’m wandering off the subject, let me remind 
you that most of the vegetables necessary for a family of 
ur can be grown on a plot of forty by sixty feet. | 
k we might see in this an economic potential of con- 
erable importance, since we now appear to be facing 
e possibility of widespread famine. How much food could 
be grown in the dooryards of cities and suburbs? How 
on uch could be grown along the extravagant rights-of-way 
of the Interstate system? Or how much could be grown, by 
the intensive practices and economics of the small farm, on 
‘so-called marginal larids? Louis Bromfield liked to point 
OL 
that the people of France survived crisis after crisis 
because they were a nation of gardeners, who in times of 
want turned with great skill to their own small plots of 
fe ground. And F.H. King, an agriculture professor who 
eled extensively in the Orient in 1907, talked to a 
nese farmer who supported a family of twelve, ‘‘one 
nkey, one cow, . . .and two pigs oh 2.5 acres of cultivated 
d’’——and who did this, moreover, by agricultural! 
hods that were sound enough organically to have main- 
ed his land in prime fertility through several thousand 
rs of such use. These are possibilities that are very 
apparent and attractive to minds that are prepared 
to think little. To Big Thinkers——the bureaucrats and 
businessmen of agriculture——they are quite simply 
invisible. But intensive, organic agriculture kept the farms 
of the Orient thriving for thousands of years, whereas 
extensive——which is to say, exploitive or extractive—— 
agriculture has critically reduced the fertility of American 
farmlands in a few centuries or even a few decades. 
A person who undertakes to grow a garden at home, by 
practices that will preserve rather than exploit the economy 
of the soil, has set his mind decisively against what is wrong 
with us. He is helping himself in a way that dignifies him, 
and that is rich in meaning and pleasure. But he is doing 
something else that is more important: he is making vital 
contact with the soil and the weather on which his life 
depends. He will no longer look upon rain as an impediment 
‘of traffic, or upon the sun as a holiday decoration. And his 
sense of man’s dependence on the world will have grown 
precise enough, one would hope, to be politically clarifying 
and useful. 
What | am saying is that if we apply our minds directly and 
competently to the needs of the earth, then we will have 
begun to make fundamental and very necessary changes in 
our minds. We will begin to understand and to mistrust 
and to change our wasteful economy, which markets not 
just the produce of the earth, but also the earth’s ability to 
produce. We will see that beauty and utility are alike 
dependent upon the health of the world. But we will also 
see-through the fads and the fashions of protest. We will 
see that war and oppression and pollution are not separate 
issues, but are aspects of the same issue. Amid the out- 
cries for the liberation of this group or that, we will know 
that no person is free except in the freedom of other 
persons, and that man’s only real freedom is to know and 
faithfully occupy his place——a much humbler place than 
we have been taught to hink——in the order of creation. 
And we will know that of all issues in education the issue of 
relevance is the phoniest. 
If life were as predictable and 
small as the talkers of politics would have it, then relevance 
would bea 
consideration. But life is large and surprising 
and mysterious, and we don’t know what we need to know. 
When | was a student | refused certain subjects because | 
thought they were irrelevant to the duties of a writer, and 
| have had to take them up, clumsily and late, to understand 
my duties as aman. What we need in education is not 
relevance, but abundance, variety, adventurousness, 
- 
thoroughness. A student should suppose that he needs to 
learn everything he can, and he should suppose that he will 
need to know much more than he can learn. 
But the change of mind | am talking about involves not just 
a change of knowledge, but also a change of attitude toward 
our essential ignorance, a change in our bearing in the face 
of mystery. The principle of ecology, if we will take it to 
heart, should keep us aware that our lives depend upon 
other lives and upon processes and energies in an inter- 
locking system which, though we can destroy it completely, 
we can neither fully understand nor fully control. And our 
great dangerousness is that, locked in our selfish and myopic 
economics, we have been willing to change or destroy far 
beyond our power to understand. We are not humble 
enough or reverent enough. 
Some time ago | heard a representative of a paper company 
refer to conservation as a “no-return investment.” This 
man’s thinking was exclusively oriented to the annual profit 
of his industry. Circumscribed by the demand that the 
profit be great, he simply could not be answerable to any 
other demand——not even to the obvious needs of his own 
children. 
. 
Consider, in contrast, the profound ecological intelligence 
of Black Elk, “a holy man of the Oglala Sioux,’’ who in 
telling his story said that it was not his own life that was 
important to. him, but what he had shared with all life: 
."Itis the story of all life that is holy and it is good to tell, 
and of us two-leggeds sharing in it with the four-leggeds 
and the wings of the air and all green things. . .’" And of 
the great vision that came to him when he was.a child he 
said: “| saw that the sacred hoop of my people was one 
of many hoops that made one circle, wide as daylight and 
as starlight, and in the center grew one mighty flowering 
tree to shelter all the children of one mother and father. 
And | saw that it was holy.” 
Copyright © 1971 by Wendell Berry 
Wendell Berry’s newest book of poems, Farming: A 
Hand Book, has just been published by Harcourt, Brace 
and Jovanovich. The Hidden Wound, a book-length 
essay about racism, $1.25 (paper) from Ballantine Books. 
Think Little was originally presented as an Earth-Day 
speech last April. 
It was previously published in blue- 
tail fly, a 
Kentucky underground newspaper. 
blue-tail fly 
Defunct 
Fhotos accompanying Think Little by James Baker Hall. 
SCO©OVCOCSSRSSOSCHSSOSHSSSSSSEHSOSOSSSOSSESSBSET 
ICO 
SPOCOSHOHSHSHOHOHHOHHOHOHNHSHSOHHSHSHOHSHHHSHHHHHHHOH
MANIFESTO: THE MAD FARMER LIBERATION FRONT 
For Jack and Mary Jo 
Love the quick profit, 
the annual raise, 
vacation with pay. Want more 
of everything ready made. Be afraid 
to know your neighbors and to die. 
And you will have a window in your head. 
Not even your future will be a mystery 
any more. Your mind will be punched in a card 
and shut away in a little drawer. 
When they want you to buy something 
they will call you. When they want you 
to die for profit they wil! let you know. 
So, friends, every day do something 
that won't compute. Love the Lord. 
Love the world. Work for nothing. 
Take all that you have and be poor. 
Love someone who does not deserve it. 
Denounce the government and embrace the flag. 
Hope to live 
in that free 
republic for which it stands. 
Give your approval to all you cannot 
understand. Praise ignorance, for what man 
has not encountered he has not destroyed. 
Ask the questions that have no answers. 
Invest in the millennium. Plant sequoias. 
Say that your main crop is the forest 
that you did not plant 
and that you will not live to harvest. 
Say that the leaves are harvested 
when they have rotted into the mold.- 
Call that profit. Prophesy such returns. 
Put your faith in the two inches of humus 
that will build under the trees every thousand years. 
Listen to carrion—put your ear 
close, and hear the faint chattering 
of the songs that are to come. 
Expect the end of the world. Laugh. 
Laughter is immeasurable. Be joyful 
though you have considered all the facts. 
So long as women do not possess 
great power, please women more than men. 
Ask yourself: Will this satisfy 
a woman satisfied to bear a child? 
Will this disturb the sleep 
of a woman near to giving birth? 
Go with your love to the fields. 
Lie easy in the shade. Rest your head 
in her lap. Swear allegiance 
to what is nighest your thoughts. 
As soon as the generals and the politicos 
can predict the motions of your mind, 
lose it. Leave it as a sign 
to mark the false trail, the way 
you didn’t go. Be like the fox 
who makes more tracks than necessary, 
some in the wrong direction. 
Practice resurrection. 
—Wendell Berry 
DPBOSOCSCHSHHHOOHOLHOHOHHOHHOHEHHTSEHHHHOCEOHRES 
Think Little O5 
Whole Systems 
