Use a sign. Have a map. 
Look like who you want to pick you up. 
Wait where it’s easy for drivers to see you and stop. 
Be of use to the driver, or at least no bother. 
Don ‘t take it personally when they don’t pick you up. 
‘See it as their problem. 
Stay on the curb, and off freeways. Don’t rob or murder 
an ybody, it makes it hard for the next guy. 
—SB 
|Re: Survival Travel Suggestions 
|f you have a little bread, a good way. to move from city to city is 
by driving a car for an Auto Transport Agency . 
In most big cities 
| there are usually a number of agencies. Call up and ask if they need 
‘any cars driven near to.where you want to go. 
If they say yes, you 
go to their office to fill out an application. Requirements are 
generally, but not necessarily, 25 years of age or over, some refer- 
jences, a valid driver's license, and supplementary identification. 
| They will ask how many are driving with you. Depending on the 
vibes you can either tell them or say that you are driving alone. 
(I 
|you are reimbursed for the deposit, any gas allowance 
permit fees, 
and repair expenses you might have incurred on the road— 
if they 
were not the result of negligence. Be sure to keep your receipts. 
It pays to shop around. Often one car will have a larger gas 
is less likely to break down, or one that uses less gas. Rattle traps 
usually mean trouble. Waiting a douple of days and checking regu- 
| larly with the agencies will often turn up a car. 
- 
|About five western states have a commercial vehicle tax which you 
are required to pay upon crossing the state line. 
If you are stopped 
all the laws and slow to 25 when passing through the small towns, 
| the chance of being stopped if you are driving a car is very slight. 
Worse odds if driving a truck, van, or obvious commercial vehicle 
. 
(get a larger gas allowance for these— dicker a little, they are 
anxious to move them). 
| keep my agency sticker in my pocket. 
If stopped, tact and a hard luck story are advised. 
‘Should you run out of gas money before, you can telephone collect 
to destination and have cash wired to you as a deduction from your 
\deposit. Another angle is to check the Greyhound Bus Stations and 
see if someone cool will pay for your gas: This will usually save 
them cost of half a ticket. Watch out 
you don’t 
get 
picked 
up 
for 
) SOliciting. Plan ahead. 
Peace and good luck, 
Arn 
Sherman, Oaks, Calif. 
Cheap Meal in a Strange Place 
‘Landing in a strange city with very little bread is rough; 
rougher even than /iving in one with very little bread. 
Eating is always important and should not be put off for 
too long in any circumstances. | may have a rung for 
your ladder. A good meal can be had in any hospital 
cafeteria in the land for from 60 cents to one dollar. Meat: 
‘or fish, vegetable, salad, milk and dessert at 1/3 the price of 
any restaurant. No one cares what you look like either, 
| they assume that you're a visitor and leave you alone. 
|More often than not you might be invited into a friendly 
conversation since people in hospitals share a common 
‘bond. 
If you are looking for a good spot to eat in San Francisco, 
| recommend, St. Mary's Hospital on Hayes and Stanyan--- 
bexcellent td 
Dana McDill 
San Francisco, Ca. 94133 
/ 
{ 
don’t know if there are any insurance complications in this respect.) 
Usually they require a deposit of $40 to $50. At the end of the trip 
allowance. Also, if you are low on cash, you want to get a car which 
land do not have a sticker you are liable for a large fine. 
If you obey 
Travelers Directory 
u 
ag, 
onc and only 
¢ 
genuine 
Travelers’ 
Directory 
in the 
universe 
ress 
ea 
ae 
Travelers’ 
Directory 
Travelers' Directory is the international registry of hip travelers who enjoy 
meeting others everywhere, whether around the corner or around the world. 
The book 
lists their names, addresses, telephones, ages, interests, and offers of hospitality to 
other travelers passing through, 
The upcoming Spring 1971 edition will list almost 
1000 addresses in its 96 pages, 
New listings are now being accepted in Directory head- 
quarters in New York City, 
EQUALITY readers are especially welcome, because they 
obviously share common interests with those already listed. 
Prospective listees should submit the above information about themselves for 
publication in the Spring edition. 
(Published annually since 1960, Travelerst Directory 
is now being published every six months to keep pace with its rapid growth.) As always, 
copies of the new edition will be sent only to those travelers listed in that edition, so 
only listees will know who else is listed. 
No extra copies are ever printed, 
so none is 
available to anyone not listed. 
Each copy of Travelers! Directory is numbered, bears 
the listee's name, is neither transferable nor replaceable, and acts as each listee's 
"underground passport" to identify him to all the others in the book, 
Ever since its first edition ten years ago, Travelers' Directory has been a non- 
profit labor of love. 
The costs of printing and mailing the Directory are shared by the 
editor and all the listees, 
Each listing is submitted with a donation of at least U.S. $3 
(about 10DM) to defray some of the production expenses of the editor, who receives no 
remuneration at all. 
Donations may be sent in any currency, or by check or money 
order made out to Travelers' Directory, 
Listings arriving by 28 February will be in- 
cluded in the Spring edition, to be sent to all listees in March, in plenty of time to make 
plans for summer traveling. 
, 
Even before the new edition of the Directory is published, listees will start re- 
ceiving the Directory's magazine, Trips, as a free bonus, 
This amusing publication is 
written by and for the listees themselves.It featuresarticles on their travel experiences, 
invitations to all listees for free weekend Directory parties in different cities, and solid 
yeas 
a 
hen 
AS 
Since AD, 1960-%he hip 
S82 
ca 
iiternational underground 
Peon tniveler’s passport 
_ 
ae 
advice on such subjects as hitching free rides on planes and ships, or which companies 
will pay you to drive their customers' cars across the country, 
Such bonuses, though, are incidental to the primary purpose of Travelers! Direc- 
tory. 
People decide to be listed mainly because they enjoy meeting others with similar 
inte rests wherever they travel. 
They know they have friends to welcome them in any 
city in the world where there are Directory listees, and that seems to be just about 
everywhere: London, Paris, Frankfurt, Rome, Stockholm, Bombay, Tokyo, Sydney, you 
name it, 
Listees live in almost every major country on every continent, even in such 
uninviting areas as Antarctica and Viet Nam. 
One listee recently toured much of Africa, 
staying with other listees in Tanzania, Uganda, Ghana, Liberia, Sierra Leone, Spanish 
Morocco and the Canary Islands. 
The country best represented in the current edition is 
the United States, with hundreds of listings, ranging from one to 55 addresses in each 
city. 
Although listees collectively speak dozens of languages, every one speaks English, 
the international language used throughout the Directory, 
No listee ever visits another, 
of course, without first phoning or writing to be sure he's welcome, 
Because'each listee must submit his listing himself each time he wants it pub- 
lished in the next edition, all addresses and offers of hospitality to compatible listees 
are current, 
No listing is ever carried over to the next edition automatically. 
Despite 
that policy, many current listees have managed to be listed in every edition since 1960. 
Travelers' Directory can't be all bad, 
Canadian Rail Cheap 
| have a couple of suggestions which | hope you can.use. 
(You 
probably know about this one). You can travel on the Canadian 
* Pacific Railroad from Montreal to Vancouver for $51.00 (Canadian 
or $49.00 (American), coach, no meals. (For three days——who 
cares). 
| really didn’t believe this so | wrote to the company and 
it was verified. That is so incredibly cheap & what a trip, through 
the Canadian Rockies, etc. Right now some friends are travelling 
this train and I’m dying to hear how it goes. 
Love & Peace— 
Margaret Cherran 
Providence, R.1. 
Freight Hopping 
You do o.k. by hitchhiking but hardly a mention of 
freight hopping. 
In the U.S.A. this is technically illegal, but in many areas, particularly 
in the west, it is allowed in order to have cheap labor available for 
the big farmers. For example, you can catch a ride from Seattle’s 
Interbay to Minneapolis or on to Chicago in 2 or 3 days respectively. 
Also from Chi-town (if you’re very careful in the yards) and 
Minneapolis you can go down to St. Louis or Kansas City and thence 
to L.A. via the southwest and thence up the coast to Seattle again. 
There are spots where you have to be cool and awake to avoid getting 
kicked off a train, but you soon learn where and when. One sees ‘a 
part of America few people see anymore, too. Some roads (like 
U.P. and a lot of southern and eastern lines) won’t let you ride, but 
then again, this is always a relative thing, depending on who knows 
you’re ona train, and who you ask. I advise caution in order to 
keep from an avoidable 30 days in the city jail and also to avoid 
getting cut in half or wiped out by a switch standard (if you are 
gonna mess with a train when its moving, 
you better know what 
you're doin’, otherwise stay on or stay off tillit stops). 
You can 
get up to Prince George & Prince Rupert, and east and south as you 
find possible, I’ve heard good & bad things about Dixie and 
Mexico (RE: freights) and don’t know. Information is half of your 
ticket— ask the workers (particularly the switchmen in big yards) 
where and when a long shot is being made up for your destination, 
Be cool with RR dicks, they exist but sometimes you meet them 
in spite of intentions otherwise. 
“‘innocense”’ is helpful in such 
cases; tell ’em you didn’t know you were doing anything wrong 
and don’t want to...etc. I find empties (opened boxcars) the best, 
except in very good, warm weather. Sometimes you might even 
get a ride in the caboose (“crummy” 
its called) for a division or 
two. There are a lot of things that are “dangerous” like shifting 
loads crushing people etc. that I can’t ever completely cover. 
Sensitivity and awareness about how the train functions is the 
other half of your ticket. Bring your own food, water and warmth. 
I guess there’s a lot to it, but no more than a lot of other things. 
Well, as they say at Suwa-no-se Jima, Sayonara, you all! 
Keep 
on truckin’ 
Shanti to Alan who was able to write a personal letter about a 
gristmill we ordered. 
Hope to see you all 
Daniel G. Leen 
Fairbanks, Alaska 
Welcome aboard. 
Tom Linn, Ed., 6224 Baynton Street, Philadelphia, PA 19144 
Sige — 
‘ Cx: VGN ca) 
ee 
“His bus is out behind the house right now.” 
“Well I’Il swan. Now what nephew would that be, honey? 
It 
aint Jenny’s boy is it?” 
“Jenny's boy’d be too young, honey. He’s Royce’s. You re- 
member Royce.” 
d 
“Got killed in a car wreck,” said Mrs. Thornton. 
“That's right. It was his woman Eva that took up with that 
Davenport everybody hated so bad.” 
“Why yes. 
| remember that family. Their girl went to school to 
my brother-in-law’s wife Rona, when she taught over yonder at 
Hemlock.” 
“That's Marcella,”” said Mrs. Godsey. 
“Well now,” said Mrs. Thornton. 
“| remember Marcella real 
good, but | declare | can’t picture a boy.” 
“He’s nearly grown now,” said Mrs. Godsey. 
“‘! wouldn't of 
recognized him if he hadn’t told me who he was. You'd think he 
was one of them hip-eyes on television, to look at him. Kind of 
queer-acting but | tell you now. That child sure meant business 
about taking care of his uncle. 
| called up there to Cincinnati 
Sunday to say how sick Emmit was, and he answered and said he’d 
“tome as soon as he could. Just like that. Stopped in here a few 
minutes, then took off up that creek lickety-split. His bus is out 
behind the house right now. Leonard pushed it around there.” 
Mrs. Godsey took a sip of her R. C. 
“4 tell you now, honey,” she went on, “I’ve been praying for 
Emmit. 
I’ve been asking a blessing for him ever since he come down 
sick, and | declare if it don’t look like the Lord’s done sent him 
one.” 
“| hope it’s so,” said Mrs. Thornton. “I say God bless the boy 
if he don’t do no more than make Emmit feel like somebody cares 
a little something about him.” 
“That's right,” said Mrs. Godsey, and she started to get up then. 
Struggling to rise, she said, ““Well young ‘un, | don’t mean to run 
you off, but it’s my nap time, and I’m going to go in yonder and 
lay down in the bed a while.” 
“| don’t blame you,” said Mrs. Thornton, and she started getting 
up too. “I’ve got to get on home myself. Wheeler’Il probably kill 
me for being gone this long.” 
Mrs. Thornton was as fat as Mrs. Godsey was old, and it took 
them equally long to work out of their seats and stand. When 
they’d made it, Mrs. Godsey said, “You come back to see me, now, 
you hear?” 
: 
“1 will,” said Mrs. Thornton. “And you come up and see us 
some time.” 
“Ohh, | don’t know,” said Mrs. Godsey. “I guess I’m too old to 
be out gadding about.” 
Mrs. Thornton said, “Psshht. You tell that Leonard | said for 
him to load you in the back of that truck of his’n and haul you up 
to our house for dinner next Sunday.” 
Mrs. Godsey laughed and said she'd tell him. 
“Where's Leonard at, anyhow?” said Mrs. Thornton. ‘I've been 
wanting to ask him something.” 
“| don’t know where he’s at today,”” said Mrs. Godsey. “‘But 
he’s on the Grand Jury next week.” 
“The Grand Jury!” exclaimed Mrs. Thornton. 
“Yep. Two weeks of it, starting Monday.” 
“Lordy,” said Mrs Thornton. 
“‘He’ll come back thinking he’s a 
big shot." 
The women laughed again and waved as Mrs. Godsey went 
through the curtain that separated her house from the store. Mrs. 
Thornton picked up the empty soft drink bottles, put them ina 
case beside the cooler, and then went out the door. 
Travel 
Nomadics 
TP 
tk 
Set 
ge 
an
+ re 
