- Passport to Survival 
/f these are your fat years, read this book and lay aside some 
wealth for the lean. 
If these are the lean years, here’s how to 
survive them till the circle turns again. 
The four foods for survival are wheat, powdered milk, honey 
and salt——they will keep indefinitely when properly stored. 
Mrs. Dickey bases her survival diet on these ingredients and 
enhances them with 40 more supplementary foods varying 
in degrees of storability and nutritional value. 
Then she 
gives more than a hundred recipes that almost all use only 
these four basic survival foods and water. 
There’s no question but youd eat well on this diet. From 
wheat flour, honey and warm water you can grow yeast and 
thus make breaa. Derive wheat gluten from wheat kernels 
and eat a very high-protein, incredibly versatile meat sub- 
stitute. Everything from spaghetti and tacos to puddings 
and taffy is produced rather miraculously. Supplementing 
with yogurt (from powdered milk) and bean and seed 
sprouts gives a fairly rounded regimen. 
Emergency procedures and the forethoughts stored here 
will serve you come holocaust, catastrophe, or unemploy- 
ment. 
[Reviewed by Hal Hershey] 
Passport to Survival 
Esther Dickey 
1969; 180 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
Bookcraft Publishers 
1848 West 2300 South 
Salt Lake City, Utah 
See Epilog, pages 596-601 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Fat-free powdered milk, when kept dry and reasonably cool, stores 
with little change for over 15 years. 
PASSPORT 
2 
- a 9¢ ¥ 
SURVIVAL 
Honey has other virtues,. 
. .As it is essentially a concentrated extract 
from the plant kingdom, it undoubtedly contains numerous minor 
components which contribute in some degree to man’s nutrition. 
It will come as a surprise to many to learn that a tablespoonful of 
honey contains as much vitamin C as a medium-sized apple, and 
that this same quantity has three times as much iron as the apple. 
It also possesses the same quantity of protein and nicotinic acid 
as the apple and a somewhat higher content of riboflavin. 
Never- 
theless it must be recognized that honey, like the apple, is far from 
a complete food. 
!ts greatest virtue lies in its pleasing flavor. 
No. 19. Creme Gluten A La Emergency 
Gluten No. 12b 
Wheat grass No. 6 
Cream 
Sauce No. 70 
Form the gluten in marble-size balls. Bake and simmer in stew 
broth No. 77. Mince wheat grass grown in soil and cut when 1-1/2 
inches high. Add gluten balls and grass to cream sauce and serve 
immediately. 
Chapter 7 Menu — Saturday Breakfast 
Variations: 
(1) Mix wheat grass in blender, using as small an amount of water 
. 
as possible.- Strain, and add a small amount of the green liquid to 
the cream sauce. (2) Wrap wheat stems in tiny bundles with 
noodle strips. Serve in a casserole, covering with cream sauce. 
Packaging the four survival foods— wheat, milk powder, honey 
and salt— in five-gallon cans has been a.project of different 
groups who have been awakened to the need for emergency storage. * 
Each can contains one month's food-supply for one adult person: 
27 |b. of wheat, 5 lb. of powdered skim milk, 3 Ib. of honey, up to 
1 Ib. of salt, 
Butchering, Processing and Preservation of Meat 
Vegetarians may turn their heads. (Some visited Kesey 
while he was slaughtering a cow. “They like to watch the 
blood gush just like everybody else. “’) 
One advantage of doing your own butchering, you get to 
thank the animal personally, and see him personally all 
the way through what you're doing together. 
There’s 
nothing abstract about it. This book has the whole story. 
Farm animals, game, fish, canning, smoking, making sausage. 
How to eat your friends and waste nothing. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Jim & Sue Walton] 
Fic. 16. Homemade beef hoist. 
A simple method of hoisting 
a. beef carcass is 
illustrated 
in these sketches. 
A fork or rake handle or gas pipe is slipped 
through incisions between tendon and shank bone; ropes are suspended from 
tree limb or other support (wide apart at top) to height of hocks below. 
To 
free ends of rope are 
tied short 
sticks, 
as 2-foot 
pieces of broom 
handle 
or 
equally strong material. 
These are placed inside the shanks and are used as 
levers for winding up ropes around fork or rake handle, as shown. Two men 
wind up the rope around pipe or handle. When beef is at right height, another 
pipe or handle is laid across between ropes:and ends of sticks to prevent un- 
winding. As the beef is raised the legs are spread farther and farther, as desired. 
Comment on Ashbrook 
If you are going to go native or at least semi-fringy, you had better 
figure out a way of beating Safeway to the price of apork chop. In 
other words, if you are going to beat the system, Ashbrook’s book 
will show you how. (At least in the meat department). 
Want to butcher a steer? He tells you how to do it in the minute 
detail you need if you have never done something like this before. 
Same goes for hogs, sheep and lambs, game animals and poultry 
and wild fowl. 
After you have the animal cut up he tells you how to freeze it, can 
it, salt it and even smoke it. Want to make your own sausage? He 
tells you how. 
This is the most complete book I’ve ever seen on the subject. From 
how to select the right knife to what to do with all the left-over 
fat (make soap with it— he shows you how). 
Ashbrook knows what.he is talking about, 40 years as animal husband- 
man and biologist with the U.S. Dept. of Agriculture and Interior. 
You can forget about all those 15 cent pamphlets from the USDA, 
this one book is all you need. 
Arthur Keim 
Colfax, Washington 
Storing 
Community 
Butchering, Processing and Preservation of Meat—— 
A Manual For the Farm and Home 
Frank G. Ashbrook 
1955; 318 pp 
$4.95 
from. 
Van Nostrand-Reinhold Books 
450 W. 33rd St. 
New York, N.Y. 10001 
Fig. 27. Sticking the hog on the ground. The feet and legs of the 
,man holding the hog are pressed against the shoulders of the animal 
to prevent it rolling. 
The ease with which lambs ana sneep can be dressed makes them a 
convenient source of fresh meat for family use. Lamb is the flesh 
of young sheep. Handy-weight 25- to 45-Ib lamb carcasses yield 
comparatively small cuts. The entire carcass is small enough so 
that with home refrigeration a family can consume the meat before 
spoilage occurs. 
Portions of lamb can also be frozen or canned. Some 
cuts can be cured satisfactorily. 
!t can be kept as an emergency food 
reserve 
or as a source of variety in th diet. 
P 
4 
A lamb carcass chills quickly and cures easily. Lambs generally dress 
out about 50 per cent, which means that an 80-pound lamb will make 
approximately a 40-pound carcass. The trimmed leg roasts from __ 
a 40-pound carcass will weigh about 6 pounds each; and the shoulder 
roasts, about 5 pounds apiece. There will be about 7 pounds of 
breast and neck and 8 pounds of loin and rib to be roasted or cut 
into 30 medium-thick chops. 
A Complete Guide to-Home Meat Curing 
Brief run down on butchering, details on various curing 
methods. Morton also has various sugar cures, meat pumps, 
etc. 
J 
—SB 
A Complete Guide to Meat Curing 
1969; 42 pp. 
‘ 
$1 .25 postpaid 
from: 
Morton Salt Company 
110 North Wacker Drive 
Chicago, Ill. 60606 
See Epilog, page 601" 
Cured Domestic Rabbit, Rabbits can be cured whole or cut in 
pieces. Wash rabbit and place in a clean container. Make a curing 
brine by mixing 1/2 cup of Tender-Quick in 2 cups of water. Pour 
enough brine into the container to completely cover the rabbit. 
Allow to cure 24 hours, then take it from the brine, wash, and it 
is ready to cook. 
If it is not to be cooked immediately, place in 
the-refrigerator and cook within 3 to 5 days after it is cured. 
Cured rabbit may be fried, broiled, baked or stewed. 
Tender-Quick brine draws out the blood, firms the meat and 
improves the flavor. 
Wild rabbits and small game placed in Tender-Quick brine before 
being cooked will have an improved flavor and it helps reduce 
the strong game taste. 
