4 Biodynamic Gardening 
| “They plant by the moon.” 
“Some European mystic is behind it.” 
_ “A lot of weird theories. Nothing proven.” 
| “They surely know their plants.” 
_ | have yet to see a ‘respectable’ formal evaluation of the 
~ ‘biodynamic gardening’ inspired by Rudolf Steiner. All/ 
__ know is, the most sensational gardens Ive seen all claim 
they owe something to biodynamic notions of soil nutrition, 
- 
companion plants, and the year cycle: 
| 
The Philbrick’s Gardening For Health and Nutrition /ooks 
| 
to be the most practical entry into biodynamic gardening. 
Next levei in:- Companion Plants or The Pfeiffer Garden 
| 
Book. Then Steiner’s own Agriculture, with the farthest- 
out illustrations (in color) ever seen in a garden book. 
i 
—SB 
| Gardening for Health and Nutrition 
_ 
John.and Helen Philbrick 
1963; 93 pp. 
$1.25 plus $.25 postage 
Companion Plants——and how to use them 
Helen Philbrick, Richard Gregg 
1966; 107 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid 
Pfeiffer Garden Book 
_ 1967; 199 pp.; also available in 
paperback for $2.75 
plus $.35 postage 
$4.25 postpaid, cloth 
CABBAGES 
ERAS 
Agriculture 
Secih 
Rudolf Steiner 
1958; 174 pp. 
$6.50 postpaid 
all from: 
St. George Book Service 
P.O. Box 225 
Spring Valley, N.Y. 10977 or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
LETTUCE 
WSV9 
133MS 
central 
path 
ry 
They pay postage on all orders $5 and over 
when payment is sent with order. 
DANDELION (Taraxacum officinale) This is. an important bio- 
dynamic plant, used to make one of the six Compost Preparations. 
The growing plant produces a fine neutral humus, encourages earth- 
worms, and is a good influence among the vegetables, so do not weed 
them all out. Do you know how good its young leaves are in early 
spring salads; that its roots may be brought indoors in late fall like 
endive, the leaves cut off to the crown and new ones grown for 
winter greens? Or the roots may be dried, chopped and used like 
coffee. Many people enjoy dandelion wine made from the blossoms. 
The cultivated variety of dandelion known in Europe is used in all 
these ways, but that seems difficult to start here. Wild dandelions 
grown in a biodynamic garden are fully as satisfactory. Their deep 
roots bring up calcium and other minerals from the soil. 
Pfeiffer Garden Book 
3 
ag 
Earth’ Water 
Agriculture 
Figure 18.—Black plastic film conserves moisture, controls 
weeds, warms the soil, and hastens maturity of a num- 
ber of vegetable crops. 
SHALLOTS 
CHIVES 
Gardening for Health and Nutrition 
Gardening for 
Health and 
_ 
Nurrition 
‘ 
We: 237, 
= 
%e 
oe 
Transplanting cabbage seedlings in Chadwick’s incredible biodynamic garden at UC Santa Cruz, the 
main reason a lot of longhairs are attending the school. 
This photo from Cry California, Winter ‘71. 
Companion Plants in a Biodynamic Garden 
TOMATOES 
See Epilog, page 502 
“Bio-Dynamic Literature List” 
BROCCOLI 
*! WHEAT 
A picture made with Pfeiffer’s 
sensitive crystallization method 
Companion Plants——and How to Use Them 
Suburban and Farm Vegetable Gardens 
For 40¢, this has a lot of basic information. Maybe all you 
need. 
—SB 
OUT OF PRINT 
Suburban and Farm Vegetable Gardens 
Robert Wester 
POb 7 RO/PP: 
See Epilog, page 501 
“Growing Vegetables 
no longer available 
In The Home Garden”’ 
from: 
Superintendent of Documents 
U.S. Government Printing Office 
Washington, D.C. 20402 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Plants grown in the hotbed or greenhouse without being shifted 
from the seedbed to provide more room and those shipped from the 
South usually have very little soil adhering to the roots when they 
are set in the garden. Such plants may require special care if 
transplanting conditions are not ideal; otherwise, they will die or 
at least suffer a severe shock that will greatly retard their develop- 
ment. The roots of these plants should be kept covered and not 
allowed to dry out. Puddling the roots, that is, dipping them in 
a thin mixture of fresh cattle manure and clay, or even clay alone, 
helps greatly in bridging the critical transplanting period. Planting 
when the soil is moist also helps. Pouring a half pint to a pint of 
water, or less for small plants, into the hole around the plant before 
it is completely filled is usually necessary. A starter solut’ »n made 
by mxiing % pound of a 4—12—4 or 5—10—5 commercial fertilizer 
in 4 gallons of water may be used instead of plain water. 
It is usually, 
beneficial. 
Finally, the freshly set plants should be shaued for a day 
or two. Small branches a foot or two long from trees with heavy 
foliage, stuck into the soil on the south side of the plant row, serve 
the purpose. 
Garden Way Publishing Company 
Books for Self-Sufficient Living 
Free list of Publications 
from: 
Garden Way Publishing Company 
Charlotte, Vermont 05445 
WHERE IT IS STILL PLEASANT TO LIVE IN THE USA 
This booklet recommends seeking a place outside of the 224 Standard 
Metropolitan Statistical Areas, as defined by the Bureau of the Census. 
These are cities of 50,000 or more with their economically attached 
suburban communities. The SMSA‘s occupy only 10% of the land area 
of the United States. 
It discusses in detail a checklist of fectors to be 
considered in selecting an area and gives the method of finding the 
answers to each of the questions. $1.00, paperback. 
THE BUG BOOK: HARMLESS INSECT CONTROLS 
by John and Helen Philbrick 
A useful compilation of imaginative methods used by practicing bio- 
dynamic gardeners to combat insect and animal pests. The bugs are 
arranged alphabetically with accompanying sketches and descriptions 
for easy identification. Remedies are suggested, and in the back is a 
listing of effective brews and potions. An invasion of blister beetles 
can be checked, say the authors, by calling in the neighbors and 
tromping through the garden beating the bushes and waving sticks 
and scaring them off. 143 pp., $3.50, paperback. 
WESTWARD, WESTWARD 
On the TV screen the world’s tiniest -wagon train began inching 
its way across what was surely the world’s smallest prairie, and 
Divine Right and Estelle cracked up immediately. 
But the Lone Outdoorsman didn’t see anything funny about 
it. 
"What do you mean?” he argued. ‘Look at it, why it’s two 
miles long or more. Count the wagons. 
| see fifty right there.” 
“No! No! No!” D.R. cried. ‘The screen itself’s only four inches 
wide.” 
“But this is a movie,” the Outdoorsman protested. 
"| know it’s a movie,” said D.R. ’’That’s the point!” 
To settle the argument, Estelle got up and held her finger 
against the TV screen. 
"I officially pronounce this wagon train 
we see before us worming its way across the west as being pre- 
© 
cisely one and three-fourths inches long, no more and hopefully 
no less otherwise it will disappear altogether.” 
D.R. was in hysterics. He laughed so hard he fell over back- 
wards off his stool. And even the Lone Outdoorsman was amused 
now. He didn’t know why, exactly. He was a little put out by 
the irreverence of his guests, but their mirth was contagious. He 
grinned. And then he laughed as hard as D.R. did when the first 
line of dialogue on Westward, Westward turned out to be the 
wagon master saying “Shut up and sit down,” to a lady wagon 
driver. 
“Stuff it up your ass,” Estelle replied. When the wagon 
master started to answer, Estelle turned his volume down so low 
nobody could hear what he said. 
“Turn it up, turn it up!” D.R. and the Lone Outdoorsman 
yelled. 
Estelle turned it back up and sat down to eat her steak 
as the lady wagon driver said to the wagon master, "Have you 
no feelings? Don’t you care about anything except your stupid 
westward movement? 
| hate the westward movement. 
I wish I’d 
never left St. Louis.’ 
And the lady wagon driver began to cry. 
(continued) 
_, 
Biodynamic Gardening 
Land Use 
