t 
ushroom Hunter's Field Guide 
avory Wild Mushroom 
The McKenny book is compact, but not especially well 
organized for use. |t contains clear and concise descriptions 
of 83 varieties of fungi, some of them peculiar to the Puget 
Sound region, the rest common throughout the U.S., and 
33 black-and-white and 48 color photographs. 
There is also 
an article on mushroom poisons and the many fine recipes 
make one want to rush to the woods and immediately gather 
baskets of Chanterelles, Morels and Ceps. Not so easy! 
_ Finding a strange, slimy, luminous colored growth on dark 
| rotting wood is surprise and pleasure; to extend that exper- 
_ fence into identifying it and possibly EATING it is even 
better. For the beginner one batch of mushrooms can 
is occupy a whole day, from finding them, through waiting 
|. for a good spore deposit and making a decision, to cook- 
ing them. An efficient guidebook is essential to avoid 
Smith’s book, which | prefer, is more technical in language 
and scope, although, as a field guide, it avoids identification 
methods involving microscopes and chemicals. It is much 
| frustrations. 
4 
ig 
; 
as 
re 
, 
more complete, covering 188 varieties with a black-and- 
3 
white photo of each plus 84 color photos, and it is organ- 
nd 
ized in keys which are super to use if you like being metho- 
dical. It is not necessarily true, however, that it is quicker 
to follow the system: in thumbing through either book, as 
in wandering in the woods, luck and perseverance further. 
f 
[Suggested and reviewed by Sandra Tcherepnin] 
Liss Hein naturet site 
164. COPRINUS ATRAMENTARIUS (Inky Cap) 
Edibility. Edible, but some people experience a peculiar type of 
intoxication from eating this species and afterward drinking an alco- 
holic beverage. | have now discovered three people in Michigan with 
this type of sensitivity. 
from “The Mushroom Hunter's Field Guide” 
The Mushroom Hunter’s Field Guide 
Alexander H. Smith 
1958; 1967; 264 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid 
from: 
University of Michigan Press 
615 East University 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106 
A Key to the American Psilocybin Mushroom 
magic mushroom information, not found in normal 
mushroom guides. 
REVISED AND 
ENLARGED 
se 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The Savory Wild Mushroom 
Margaret McKenny 
1971 rev. ed. 296 pp. 
Pa 
: 
$4.95 
postpaid 
from: 
University of Washington Press 
Seattle, Washington 
98195 
Psilocybe quebecensis 
RR RRR 6 CRN PASS 
A Key to the Psilocybin Mushroom 
Leonard Enos 
: 
1972; 80 pp., color plates 
$5.00 postpaid 
from: 
The Youniverse Project 
8135 Lincoln Street 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
On a tramp through the fields and forests, carry with you a small jar 
of butter, creamed with salt and pepper. On finding any edible mush- 
room (except morels or elfinsaddles), collect a few dry sticks and fire 
them. Split a green stick (alder or willow) ut one end. Put the mush- 
room in the cleft, hold it over the fire until tender, season with the 
butter. Eat from the stick. 
from “‘The Savory Wild Mushroom” 
Edible and Poisonous Mushrooms of Canada 
The world is full of them. They grow in lawns and woodlots, by 
roads and rivers, in parks and pastures, but most abundantly in the 
piney woods in the fall. Most people do not see them. 
They are 
there, but invisible; outside the range of conscious awareness. 
Once 
you become aware of them, they seem to spring up in droves. 
For the beginning pot-hunter, The Savory Wild Mushroom 
(Margaret McKenny, U. of Wash. Press) or the Mushroom Hunter’s 
Handbook (Alexander Smith, U. of Mich. Press) are excellent non- 
technical guides. Pretty soon you can spot an Amanita, Agaricus, 
Russula or Corprinus or such off-beat types as Chantrelles and 
Boletes. But there comes a day when, after an afternoon’s ramble 
thru a park or forest you come home with about thirty different 
species, most of which are not in the book. Now what? 
There are a number of older and more technical manuals which can 
usually be found in libraries. The Mushroom Handbook by Louis 
Kreiger has been reprinted by Dover in paperback and so is 
readily available, but is rather difficult to use. 
On a recent trip to Canada | found what | think is the best new book 
on the subject, Edible and Poisonous Mushrooms of Canada. 
I(t is 
authoritative, but still readable, though you might have to keep one 
finger in the glossary at first. There are new and simplified keys for 
tracking down over 400 different species, and best of ail, most of 
them are illustrated with color photos taken in the field. 
With this 
book, and a lot of patience, you should become a local expert. 
is 
5 
- 
[Reviewed by Walt Downing. 
Suggested by Barbara Kirshenblatt- 
: 
Gimblett] 
Edible and Poisonous Mushrooms of Canada 
J. Walton Groves 
1962; 298 pp. 
$1 1.70 postpaid» 
from: Queen's Printer 
a 
Information Canada 
Publishing Division 
Ottawa, Ontario 
Canada 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
‘Fruits of Hawaii 
‘After due research | can report that it’s true, you can live 
off the land in Hawaii for very little. Fruit grows everywhere, 
and this book is an excellent guide to which of it is edible 
_and where to find it and how to cook it. If you liked th 
early 60's, you'll love Hawaii. 
—SB 
a 
Fruits of Hawaii 
: 
Carey D. Miller, Katherine Bazore, Mary Bartow 
965; 229 pp. 
- 
6.00 postpaid 
rom: 
iversity Press of Hawaii 
335 
Ward Avenue 
nolulu, Hawaii 96814 
Lemon Grove, California 92045 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
See Epilog, page 739 
All but one of the species have revealed an interesting and striking 
chemical characteristic that is very constant in fresh specimens. 
When the Fruit are scratched, bruised by handling, or injured 
in any way they stain blue, or, if the surface color is yellowish, 
green or greenish blue. This harmless phenomenon is apparently 
caused by the oxidation of an enzyme in conjunction with the 
psilocybin and isa main 
point of identification. Certain chemical 
reagents are known to accelerate this bluing. The best, of these 
indicators, p-methylaminophenol sulphate or metol, gives a 
constant and strongly positive reaction on the flesh of the stem, 
becoming very deep violet within 1-30 minutes. This chemical, 
which is in crystal form, is inexpensive and can be prepared 
from any chemical house or photographic shop that handles 
darkroom supplies. Metol will dissolve in about 20 times its 
weight of distilled water, and the solution must be used immediately 
since it is unstable. A canteen of distilled water and a small plastic 
bottle are ail the tools needed to make up the solution in the field. 
Be sure to shake the solution vigorously to shorten the dissolving 
time. 
~ 
w 
Mycological Societies 
Your coverage of mushroom identification books is fine, but | have 
graduated from Smith and McKenny (both of which | have) to. A Guide 
to Mushrooms and Toadstools by Morten Lange and F. Bayard Hora, 
Dutton. 
It is very complete and has color painting instead of photo- 
graphs, which | like, and every species is shown in color. 
| belong to 
the San Francisco Mycological Society and | recommend that anybody 
who is interested in mushrooms join the nearest mycological group 
for help with locating and identifying. Write to the North American 
Mycological Association, 4245 Redinger Road, Portsmouth, Ohio 
45662, for the address of the nearest group. 
Sent by 
Mary Schooner 
San Francisco, CA 
PRAYER 
The Way is uncharted. The map cannot be spoken. Names are 
in words, but nature lives only in nature. The source of creation 
is nameless, but the matrix of all is named. The secret eludes 
eyes clouded by longing. Prejudiced eyes must stop cold at the 
surface. The secret is self-contained. 
a) Cut the sharp points from top of pineapple. Hold top 
firmly in left hand and, with a large, heavy knife, start 
peeling 
strips from top downward 
until 
entire 
rind 
is 
removed. 
(The top may be removed before cutting off 
rind.) 
b) Remove the eyes by cutting diagonal grooves around 
May we be mindful of these truths. May we become pure 
pineapple. 
, 
enough to pass through the gate to the root of the universe. 
. 
c) Cut off top and slice fruit lengthwise into wedges. Each 
q 
serving then has some of the sweetest and most ‘desirable 
: 
portion of the fruit. The core may be removed from each 
. 
ig 
Wie 
Ghee 
Mushrooms 
d) If larger pieces ore 
desired, cut entirely through 
the 
“4 
peeled fruit lengthwise and serve the slice whole. _ 
~ 
Land. Use 
$e 
