et es 
geringiigeen 
rps 
<griaens 
oy 
2 
28 
ABC's of Short Wave Listening 
/ started listening to short wave when | was twelve on an 
old (1937) Crosley shortwave console radio | bought from 
Honest Ben’s for $5. | replaced a few tubes and then learned 
to count seconds listening to WWV. 
You can receive much more than the WWV 
time signal. 
Voice of America. 
Radio Swan. 
Etc. (See p. 127, Popular 
Science) 
/t is fun and can be very informative. 
This book is a very basic introduction to short wave. 
You 
can spend a lot of money on a good receiver. Or make do 
with an old console. Depends on what you want. 
[Reviewed by Fred Richardson] 
ABC’s of Short- Wave Listening 
Len Buckwalter 
1962; 96 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
Howard W. Sams & Co., Inc. 
4300 W. 62nd St. 
Box 558 
Indianapolis, Indiana 46206 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
As the major piece of equipment in the hobby of shortwave listening, 
the receiver must convert the minute energy of a radio wave into an 
audible signal. How well a receiver can do this is mostly a measure of 
its sensitivity and selectivity. The first quality, sensitivity, is the 
ability to separate a signal from the ever present noise level created 
by disturbances in the atmosphere and outer space. 
The Radio Amateur’s Handbook 
10 
The Radio Amateur's Handbook 
10a 
This has been the pracitcal 
guide for radio amateurs for 43 
years. 
It begins with the 
fundamentals of electric circuits and 
follows a simple development of the 
radio theory necessary to understand 
‘communications. 
There is brief 
section on laws governing amateurs 
and references to other books that 
are valuable aids in obtaining a 
license. 
10b 
Throughout the book actual 
circuits are shown, always with 
enough information to build then, 
Later sections cover complete 
construction details for various 
transmitters and receivers but don!t 
be misled by their apparant 
simplicity. 
It takes a lot of time 
and know-how to make these things 
work and unless circuit building is 
your thing you are better off to buy 
commercial equipment or kits. 
(Heathkit is one of the best sources 
for ham gear.) 
The review to the left was prepared [Reviewed by Bill English. 
and printed on a computer by Bill 
English— 
as you can see, the 
fluidity of computer interaction 
makes spelling more casual than 
with direct hard print. 
The Radio Amateur’s Handbook 
may be of interest'to the 
communities and enclaves who’ve 
been fantasizing an underground 
radio net. 
or month when all the world’s 
long-hairs are on the air, vibing to 
each other and the stars. 
NEAR SUPPORT 
__ 
(HOUSE) 
40' TO 100° 
INSULATOR (2) 
LEAD-IN 
WIRE 
STANDOFF S 
LIGHTNING, 
ARRESTER 
GROUND 
WIRE 
ROD 
(A) Inverted-L antenna. 
Table 2-1. The Radio Spectrum 
: 
Major Divisions 
Frequency Ranges 
10 kHz to 30 kHz 
30 kHz to 300 kHz 
300 kHz to 3000 kHz 
3 MHz to 30 MHz 
30 MHz to 300 MHz 
300 MHz to 3000 MHz 
3 GHz to 30 GHz 
30 GHz to 300 GHz 
VLF = Very Low Frequency 
LF = Low Frequency 
MF = Medium Frequency 
HF* = High Frequency 
VHF = Very High Frequency 
UHF = Ultrahigh Frequency 
SHF = Superhigh Frequency 
EHF = Extremely High Frequency 
* Most SW listening is done in this part of the spectrum. 
Selectivity describes how well the receiver can pick out a signal in a 
crowded frequency band. 
It is mainly by these two qualities that a 
short-wave receiver may be judged. A multitude of features may 
appear in a given set, but these are usually concerned with operating 
convenience rather than operating quality. 
Suggested by Arthur Brand] 
The Radio Amateur’s 
Handbook 
American Radio Relay League 
1925... .1974; 704 pp. 
$5.50 postpaid 
Like a night of the week 
$6.00 Canada, $7.00 elsewhere . 
from: 
The American Radio Relay League 
3B 
Newington, Conn..06111 
Electronics 
For technical freaks. If you are a double e ENGINEER, the 
articles may be of interest. Otherwise, spend your time with 
the ads. Learn about all the new hardware and bits and 
pieces. Reader service card whereby all of the advertisers 
will send you piles of shit on their products. Electronics 
Buyers’ Guide is offered to U.S. and Canada subscribers if 
they fill out a questionnaire sent out each year. 
Don't forget your title and company name. Get a 
subscription blank from one at the library and have no 
trouble. 
[Reviewed by Fred Richardson] 
Electronics 
$9.00 a year, biweekly 
from: 
Electronics 
P.O. Box £14 
Hightstown, N.J. 08520 
Subscription department 
Radio 
Communications 
32 
Subscriptions limited to persons with active, professional, 
functional responsibility in electronics technology. Publisher 
reserves the right to reject non-qualified requests. No subscrip- 
tions accepted without complete identification of subscriber name, 
title or job function, company or organization, including product 
manufactured or services performed. Subscription rates: qualified 
subscribers in the United States and possessions and Canada, 
$9.00 one year, $18.00 three years; all other countries $25.00 per 
year. Limited quota of subscriptions available at higher-than-basic 
rate for persons outside of field served, as follows: U.S. and 
possessions and Canada, $25.00 one year; all other countries 
$50.00. Air freight service to Japan $50.00 one year, including 
prepaid postage. Single copies: United States and possessions 
in Canada, $1.00; all other countries, $1.75. 
“tH 
Radio 
In the March $1 Catalog you were wondering about how to fit 
electronics into your catalog better. 
It seems to me that electronics 
equipment is relevant to the very important business of communi- 
cating with one another. Radios, transceivers, hydrophones, 
ultrasonic translators, and tape recorders certainly are significant 
tools. However one of the most important communication tools, 
(in my opinoin) is 
ashortwave receiver. Listening is the beginning 
of all communication. With even the humblest short-wave receivers 
one can tune in many different nations all around the globe. 
Americans have neglected shortwave radio but the rest of the world 
(mainly other governments) is broadcasting it’s opinions, view- 
points, philosophies, music, literature and drama for anyone to 
examine. 
It is free to anyone with a shortwave radio. 
The simplest way to start listening is to turn on any shortwave- 
ready radio you have. Reception is better if you attach a long 
antenna and a good ground. Reception is also better after dark. You 
may have a good shortwave receiver in your attic or a $5 to $25 
Salvation Army Store radio will serve. Almost anything made after 
1932 is liable to work well. Of course if you have more money a 
store-bought recéiver or kit would be a fine tool. | hope some of 
- 
your correspondents will be reviewing receivers and listening 
guides. 
Besides ham radio it seems to me that souls interested in underground 
(and aboveground) radio and tv ought to check the radio & tv 
trade journals for the names of brokers in used broadcast equipment. 
With the intfoduction of color tv, multiplex fm and transistors a lot 
of good equipment has been obsoleted. Presently much of this 
stuff is sold'to less affluent parties overseas. Also since many 
police and fire departments have changed from broadcastiag on 
1700 ke. (which is just on one edge of the broadcast band) to 
vhf and uhf bands I'd bet that there is some modest power gear on 
the market that would be fine for am broadcasting with merely a 
new crystal (like $10 and a tune up. 
Lee McKusick 
Chimayo, N.M. 
PRR ASAE REESE 
ee 
ee 
Get Your Ham Ticket 
Okay, why push for all the whole earth types to get their tickets? 
A) 
When this country falls apart, all that portable equipment 
and practical electronics knowledge and all those established 
nets are going to be the tools to stay alive and coordinate 
with your frends. 
B) 
Intelligent roundtable discussion is not only possible but 
. enjoyable, mainly because if someone is an obnoxious 
bastard you can tell him so politely or go off on some other 
frequency and start another roundtable. 
C) 
Organized amateur radio gets information spread fast It 
doesn’t matter what the information is or how far it has to 
go, witness Alaska hams during the big earthquake a few 
© 
years ago and the more-recent and controversial National 
Student Information Net. 
D) ~— Ever see a ham tv roundtable? 
Why don’t more freaks and street people become hams? I think 
that most do not see amateur radio as the subtle tool that it is. The 
skills and discipline of radio in the telephone age are somewhat like 
the skills and discipline of the photographer who shoots 4x 5 black 
and white in the Instamatic age..-The price of versatility is knowledg 
and time. 
- 
The whopper in this whole discussion, though, is the relatively un- 
known but potentially enormously beneficial use of amateur repeaters. — | 
See the April 1971 issue of 
73 , which lists six in the Bay area alone. 
With repeaters, ten watts of rf and a good antenna pointed at the 
repeater itself will get your signal out over the entire Bay, Los 
Angeles area, Chicago area, the entire state of New Mexico, most 
of Mass, N.H., and Vt, or coverage in most of the sizeable cities in 
the U.S. One at a time, of course. Repeaters are relatively easy to 
license in most parts of the country, but require a lot of groundwork 
and a good, high antenna site. Also a couple thousand dollars unless 
you are the scrounger supreme. 
Last summer I listened to the prime Chicago repeater 
for a couple 
days and heard fixed stations over the Wisconsin border and out 
more than thirty miles to the south chatting with a mobile unit 
watching the planes take off at O’Hare and a woman walking near 
the loop witha walkie-talkie. I understand that one can. now drive 
through the northeast and searcely ever be out of range of at least 
one machine. Mind you that all this is taking place more or less 
line-of-sight on frequencies tucked between the fm broadcast band 
and tv channel 7. 
: 
: 
Ill QSO any of you after my part of the war is over. 
Wes Plouff WA8CBN 
2 
Eielson AFB, Alaska 
Hi 
Sex and Broadcasting: A Handbook on Starting 
Community Stations 
Lorenzo W. Milam 
1972: 40 pp, 
al 
$2.00 postpaid 
plus $.15 postage 
. 
from: 
‘ 
ait 
Dildo Press—KTAO 
+ 
5 University Avenue 
; 
3 
Los Gatos, California 95030 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
| could spend pages, hours, days, telling you 
about how to fill out 
Form 340 (from the FCC). But since you and 
| are always involved 
b 
in learning processes, let us. look on this as such an experience. 
Fill 
it out to the best of your ability, show it to your lawyer— assuming 
P 
you have one— 
or send a rouch draft to me. 
| will help you out as 
Al 
much as | can if | am convinced that you truly want to set upa 
al 
community oriented free form free forum listerner volunteer station. 
If not: 
| can’t help'you. For | love broadcasting and radio too much 
to give free time and. assistance to someone who will use a broadcast 
| 
outlet as a stamping ground for some misshapen single-cell personality. 
