Moving On 
One early evening in my senior year at Holy Cross College, Worcester, 
Mass., just before stepping onto the crossover into Loyola Hall, | 
_ stopped stoned. Like lightning, | ‘wanted a want’’—a big one, sharp, 
and jagged. | wanted to swallow the whole wide world in one gulp. 
To get to the last alley in the world and meet the last person walking 
down it, Ah so! 
Frankly, | haven’t pulled it off. But I’ve tried. 
At least, the long looking has made me lean, lean asa needle with a 
hole in it. My eyes have gone gimlet, legs gone skinny. Add New 
England bones, 4 years in the Iraqi Deserts, a dozen years in the 
2 Great Tramp Territory west of Denver to the Pacific. No matter how 
. ‘you mix it, it comes out a slim stew. 
— 
You say—like you really cared—‘‘What in the world have you been 
looking for?” 
‘ 
“Don’t laugh. I'll tell you. A horse. A horse named Freedom. 
‘Freedom,’ says Matthew Arnold, ‘is a horse but a horse is meant to 
___ go somewhere.’ He sure is, has.”” 
When | stood years ago in front of Loyola Hall with my mouth open, 
the horse was at an easy trot. Long since he'd finished his pioneer 
_ walk from Plymouth Rock to the Pacific, dragging that covered wagon 
behind him. Asa reward for that Grand Tour, the people built him 
_ 
-abig red barn. Time since has proved him right in not settling so 
cheap. That kind of pioneer paradise can now be produced by a 
pushbutton, 
‘Challenge for Survival 
Jesus, there are a lot of ecological anthologies coming out. 
This one’s value is that it focuses on the devil himself. 
The city. 
—SB 
\ 
Challenge for Survival 
Pierre Dansereau, Ed. 
1970; 235 pp. 
$2.75 postpaid 
from: 
Columbia University Press 
440 West 110th Street 
New York, N. Y, 10025 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
What will be left of the plant world if we allow the basically village 
culture, founded:on aclose symbiotic partnership between man and 
plants, to disappear? For some twelve thousand years, all the higher 
- achievements of civilization have rested on this culture, one devoted 
to the constructive improvement of the habitat and the loving care 
of plants——their selection, their nurture, their breeding, their 
_ enjoyment. That culture, as Edgar Anclerson suggested, originally 
made some of its best discoveries in breeding by being equally 
concerned with the color, the odor, the taste, the flower and 
leaf patterns, the sexual functions, and the nutritive qualities of 
plants, valuing them not only for food and medicine, but for 
esthetic delight. There are plenty of people working in scientific 
laboratories today who, though they may still call themselves 
biologists, have no knowledge of this culture, except by vague 
hearsay, and no respect for its achievements. They dream of a 
_ world composed mainly of synthetics and plastics, in which no 
- 
creatures above the rank of algae or yeasts would be encouraged 
to grow. 
: 
__ The View from the Barrio 
__ What a refreshment this book was after reading a handful of 
_ 
“future” books—scholarly radical technological inflated 
___ prophetic advice gas—which left me with a depressed 
feeling that the future is just words. 
The real future will be made of much that is reported in 
_ 
this book (and approximately unknown to the scholars). 
_ Namely rural Third World people in newly rich economies 
__ 
and new planned cities, subverting the planners and 
___ transforming their own lives. 
_ La Laja is a barrio in the planned Venezuelan city of Ciudad 
_ Guayana. Dr. Peattie was there for 2% years with her 
family, taking part in barrio life and paying structured 
__ attention to what was going on. Social life around her was 
loose, fluid to a swiftly changing environment and economy. 
__ 
People were self-organizing only around critical community 
___ issues such as water or sewers. From the barrio it was a 
_ came down that was intolerable they would beef futilely 
_ 
for a while and then plant dynamite under it. Nothing 
_ romantic. Just making do, getting by. 
= It dynamited my depression. 
—SB 
The View from the Barrio 
Lisa Redfield Peattie 
1968; 147 pp. 
$1 95 postpaid 
from: 
The University of Michigan Press 
615 East University 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
oy 
__ huge impassable distance to the planners, so when something 
; 
From the ‘solid’, ‘thingy’ walk, Freedom:shifted into a ‘thinking’ trot. 
Not only by the sweat.of our brow but by the cleverness thereof, would 
we eat bread. Much bread. The great American draam became Things 
& Think, Inc.—everything under control and a few beautiful people at 
the controls. As a trotting reward, the Corporation has built a beautifully 
decorated baroque stable. BUT THE HORSE HAS SPLIT OUT! Once 
again, off and running down the cold cement. The only thing now left 
behind is the empty stable, the ‘soiled’ straw, and the bad smell. 
Now, 1969, no other when, the horse named Freedom is about to break 
into a full gallop, third gear. Up until now, in the walk, the trot (1st 
and 2nd gear), the harness, the bit and bridle have been in control. 
The contro! has been from without. Horse and rider, freedom and 
people, just puppets pulled on a string. 
In the full gallop, both horse and rider are running free in the wind, 
glued into one shared spirit. You and |, not the horse, then drop the 
blinds from our eyes. Things, thoughts, stones, tree, dogs, that man 
in the last alley whatever his color—the whole world racing by—is 
caught up in the shape and mass of a single Big Man. The control is 
from within. 
Freedom at full gallop is Celebration. The Big Man’s general dance. 
Red barns full of oats won’t hold him. Nor corrals built by cleverness. 
The entire range of America from Atlantic to Pacific would still cramp 
his style. Oppenheimer, the physicist, says “the universe has become 
a wild windy place.’’ Only the swift spiral of Celebration is big enough 
to swallow the world at a single gulp. 
Teg’s 1994 
We’re generally down on Utopian thinking around here, 
holding to a more evolutionary fiasco-by-fiasco approach to 
perfection. 
Thus Walden Two, Island, Stranger in a Strange 
Land, and Rimmer’s stuff have not been listed. 
They’re well 
known enough anyway. One publication——relatively unknown—— 
with a more structural brand of speculation is Theobald & 
Scott et al’s Teg’s 1994. The “book” 
is an on-going process 
that invites your participation. 
_sp 
[Suggested by Robert Theobald] 
Teg’s 1994 
Robert Theobald & J. M. Scott 
from: 
1969; 115 pp. 
Swallow Press, Inc. 
1139 South Wabash Ave. 
$2.50 
postpaid 
Chicago, III. 60605 
During her year of travel as an Orwell Fellow, Teg learns that her 
contemporaries’ concept of the ‘‘communication society”’ is 
increasingly flawed by interaction failures between diverging 
communities. A full expression of each community’s sub-culture, 
or myth, has been achieved: only at the cost of increasing mutual 
incomprehension, and even a re-emergence of an aggressive commun- 
ity ethnocentricism. 
Some of the longer-term residents have begun to question this 
community myth of sea-use, and are proposing a change to a 
myth of sea co-existence. They wish to convert to a vegetarian 
sea-diet and prevent the eating of fish. Given the fact that 
pisciculture is presently essential to protein adequacy throughout 
the scarcity-regions the other residents think this is unrealistic. 
There are also a few residents who want to change over completely 
to a myth of sea-adaption. They propose surgical conversion of 
the human-being for water-breathing. 
erin 
a 
aeons 
Under that wide sky’s bowl of light the new roads and new 
concrete buildings—rows of developer houses, apartment 
buildings, commercial structures—seem to erupt from the 
dusty-dry earth which bulldozers have scraped clear of 
vegetation. Elsewhere, the improvised housing of the poor, 
of sheet aluminum or pressed-board, looks as if it had been 
thrown together by a hurricane. 
It is a city of bulldozers, of 
engineers who wear boots and dungarees and carry shiny 
briefcases, of noisy bars and holes in the streets, and of new 
traffic interchanges; it is a city of building and of disorderly 
entrepreneurship; it is a city which lives in the future. 
Another part of La Laja’s natural environment consists of the strip 
_ of unimproved land just beyond the tron Mines fence. This land, 
covered with brush and cactus,’is often used for toileting, 
especially 
by children; debris may be dumped there, and children 
collect certain wild fruits in the brush. Some medicinal plants 
(from an extensive folk pharmacopeia of herbal remedies) are 
collected there by adults. Some men of the barrio shoot birds in 
this piece of monte. Boys hunt birds and sometimes rats with 
stones, either thrown or projected with a sling shot; their 
accuracy is astonishing by American standards. 
The general development planning and urban design functions 
of the CVG were being carried out far away from the people of 
‘La Laja, on the thirteenth floor of the Shell Building, 350 miles 
away in Caracas. Some individuals in San Félix—the priests, 
certain political and economic leaders—from time to time made 
visits to these offices, but to my knowledge no resident of La Laja 
had ever been there, and certainly the overwhelming majority had 
no conception of that far-off world in which La Laja appeared on 
maps as an area encircled by the planners’ ‘‘Magic Marker” or zipatone 
symbols. 
We're all waiting for the shift into third: Czechoslovakia, Vietnam, 
the black man, students, ghettos, Wall Street, Roman Curia, hippies 
and housewives. The little ones, the beautiful people, are coming 
out of the highways.and the hedges. The whole world has become 
one big waiting room, a Greyhound Bus Terminal at 3 A.M. The 
stranded sitting by pitiful little piles of luggage in the fluorescent 
emptiness. 
The clutch is in. Who has not somehow felt it grabbing at his entrails? 
The shift can hardly be smooth and easy. The world is nota 
Volkswagen. The only way to get into third gear may be a violent 
grinding slam. 
In all the doubt, despair, violence and madness, we have somehow to 
take our eyes from the clutch on the floor and fix them instead on the 
Celebration ahead, Even the worst kind of madness has a ring of 
reason to it. The best reason !| know for this one of 1969 is: 
The Big Man is in a hell of a hurry to get to his wedding on time! 
And you know what? This wild, silly, mixed-up bitch of a world 
is his bride. How about that! 
Moving On 
Defunct 
SHR 
BR 
BERBERS 
SERS 
THE RED TENT 
D.R. and Estelle had finished breakfast and were into cleaning 
out the bus when a woman from the red tent and the Porsche 
next door came over to borrow some sugar. 
She looked to be 
in her thirties somewhere, a very tanned athletic woman wearing 
a leather vest and a pair of chic brown riding pants. 
She was 
European. 
Her accent was so thick Estelle at first didn’t under- 
stand what she wanted. 
But finally she heard “shu-ger” and 
after they’d gone through the routine of scooping some brown 
sugar out of the coffee can Estelle kept it in, the woman began 
to come in a little more clearly. 
“You arrive very late,” she said. 
> 
“No, no,” said Estelle. 
“Very early. We got here just at 
dawn.” 
“You must come far.” 
"Nery far,” said D.R. 
"Very, very far. And we’ve still got 
a long way to go.” 
"We have come far too. 
From Amsterdam to New York, from 
New York to here.” 
D.R. asked the woman where she got her red tent. 
"You like it?” 
“I've never seen a tent like that before.” 
“Would you like to see inside? 
It is very lovely.” 
Estelle was knee-deep in the shit they’d unloaded from Urge 
and she wanted to get on with the work. 
But D.R. was fascinated 
by the red tent, and so he followed the woman past the Porsche 
over to her camping place. 
Another woman about the same age 
as the first, but who turned out to speak no English at all, was 
just coming out the front flap as they walked up. 
if 
“These nice people loaned me sugar,” said the first woman, 
speaking European. 
“He admires our tent.” 
Her companion smiled and nodded and held the flap open 
for D.R. as he entered. 
D:R.’s first hit was off the fantastic quality of the light inside. 
It was mid-morning by now. The sun was above the tree-line, 
shining directly into all the little clearings on the western side of 
the campground. 
It filled the red tent with the most completely 
restful light he'd ever seen before. A whole tension that had 
screwed his face tight all morning went away as his eyes gulped the 
quiet rose ‘of the tent’s interior. 
It wasn’t large at all. There was 
only one place a person could half stand up, and two sleeping bags 
side by side would cover most of the floor. Yet somehow it 
struck D.R. as the most spacious, elegant room he’d ever been in. 
It was immaculate. 
In the corners-of the tent near the entrance 
were two rolled sleeping bags. On top of each bag were small 
blue and white flight bags, both neatly zippered, the carrying 
straps arranged just so. Except for a strip of grass down the middle, 
the ground was covered by two straw mats. On each mat was a 
rubber air mattress, deflated and folded into a perfect square and 
stashed in the far corner of the tent. In the middle of the far end 
stood a short, three-legged table with a candle on it, and a single 
wildflower of some kind, in a glass of water. D.R. was amazed. 
He hadn’t smoked any dope in over twelve hours now, and yet he 
felt completely stoned on the perfect arrangement of the small 
red world around him. He glanced over his shoulder to see if the 
two women were watching. When he saw them through the tent 
flap doing something over at the picnic table, he stretched himself 
out on one of the mats and stared up at the slanting red roof above 
‘ 
* 
Funky 
Future 
Whole Systems 
