The Complete Book of 
Progressive Knitting 
This is the most complete knitting book that 
| have seen. 
/t discusses yarn, its qualities and 
history, and gives clear instructions on the 
basics of knitting. Where other books only 
give directions cryptically written 
as ‘K1, 
*Y_O., K2 together *K1 repeat this row for 
the desired no. of rows,’ this book tells you 
how to figure out the desired number of rows 
for all types of garments from sweaters to suits. 
The only real drawback | could see was the | 
book’s illustrations. 
[Reviewed by Lois Brand] 
The oa a Book of Progressive Knitting 
Ida Riley 
Duncan 
1966; 386 pp. 
$2.75 postpaid 
from: 
Liveright Publishing Corp. 
386 Park Avenue South 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The knit stitch is the foundation of all knitted fabrics. 
Position of the Hands. The needle containing the loops to be 
knitted is held in the left hand with the needle underneath the 
hand as in Plate XVI. The other needle is held in the right hand 
as one would hold a pen or a pencil. There are many ways, of 
holding the yarn to be worked over the fingers, but whatever way is 
used there should be no tensed’muscles and no stiff fingers. Knitting 
for relaxation requires no tension. 
It is preferable that the yarn be 
fed over the fingers of the right hand. This is the only way different 
colored yarns may be worked in a pattern without having a long 
loop at the back of the work. 
The yarn passes over the index finger of the right hand, around the 
middle finger and is held by the other fingers. 
It is the way in 
which the yarn is held that makes the tension of the stitch. There 
should be absolutely no gripping of either the yarn or needles. The 
knitting should be worked with ease and the yarn drawn smoothly 
through the fingers. 
ij 
Buttonholes are knitted as the fabric is being made, 
not slashed as in sewing. Therefore, it is advisable 
- 
when knitting garments, to knit the side on which 
the buttons are to be fastened first. In this way 
the position of the buttons may easily be ascer- 
tained and marked, and hence be a guide for the 
buttonholes. This is important especially where 
the last buttonhole should be at the neck line. 
Decide upon the size of the button. 
|f bands are 
used, the buttonhole is made in the center of the 
band. The width of the band usually depends 
upon the size of the buttonhole, that is, if a 
buttonhold requires 4 stitches, the band should 
be at least 8 stitches wide, allowjng % the width 
of the button on each side of the buttonhole. 
Method. The position and size of each buttonhole 
having been ascertained, bind off the necessary 
number of stiches at this point. Continue to 
complete the row as previously, and back again 
to where the stitches have been bound off. The 
stitches are added the same way as the second 
method in the Chapter on Fundamentsls. 
Note. Turn the work to the 
wrong side to add the stitches 
and back again to the right 
side after they have been 
added. 
After the garment is com- 
pleted, the buttonholes 
should be finished with 
buttonhole stitches, using 
the same yarn if possible, or 
should be reinforced with 
binding on the wrong 
side. 
Armhole Formation 
The shoulder to shoulder measurement ix 131. inches. 
1343 X 6 nts to the inch 
81 xty, 
An even number of stitches ix always better in caleu- 
lating any change of shape in knitting, therefore we shall 
use 8% sts for the required number across the shoulders, 
Garments of pure wool yarns 
are hard to ignite even with 
an open flame, because wool 
America’s Knitting Book 
Did you know that sweater sizes aren’t stan- 
dard? I didn’t. Gertrude Taylor tells you how 
to choose your correct size by glancing through 
the pattern direction: Add the no. of stitches 
in the complete bust line and divide by the 
stitch gauge. This will give you the correct 
size. Be warned to add 3 inches to your actual 
measurement for ease. 
America’s Knitting Book contains all the information needed 
for a beginner in an easy to understand style. 
“Do not hold needles like a pencil. Perch up on top of the 
needles.’” How many people quit before starting because it 
was too hard to hold needles like a pencil? 
The instructions are good and the graphics don’t look like 
1940. There is also lots of stuff that’s far too advanced for 
me to really comment on except to say that | felt that | 
~ could do it with the instructions given. 
[Reviewed by Lois Brand. Suggested by Ann Hresko] 
America’s Knitting Book 
Gertrude Taylor 
1968; 288 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid 
from: 
Charles Scribner’s Sons 
Vreeland Avenue 
Totowa, N. J. 07512 
vancon AMETICRS 
Knitting Book 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Knitting Dictionary 
The best book that I have found on knitting and crochet stitches is: 
Knitting Dictionary: 800 Stitches, Patterns, and knitting, crochet, 
jacquard technics. 
($1.98) 
This is the most complete book that I have found. It is well organized 
and explains things so that if you know the basic knitting stitches you 
can follow it. Besides being all the above it is small enough to be 
easily carried with you. 
When I was in Vancouver B.C. over Christmas 
I found one there and latched on to it. Upon returning to school in 
Ohio, I went to a bookshop downtown and there was a whole stack 
of them. It’s really great! 
The Knitting Dictionary ts distributed by 
Crown Pub. Inc. 
419 Park Avenue So. 
New York, N.Y. 10016 
_ See Epitog, page 567 
$7.98 
Silk 
Silk yardage from Thai Silk Company, 311/6-7 Surawongse 
Road, Box 906, GPO, Bangkok, Thailand 
| don’t know that the item warrants a review as such. 
It is 
just the most beautiful fabric I’ve ever seen. When you see 
it you know you must wear it. I’ve never seen their incredible 
colors in any other fabric. Comes by the yard, 40” width, 
3 or 4 different weights, solids (which are really made with 
warp & weft of different, sometimes complementary, colors) 
and gingham-type plaid (1° or 2’’ checks.) When | wrote, 
ca. 2 years ago, they would send generous samples for 1 gen- 
uine U.S.A. quarter. 
Charles Eby 
Laurel, Md. 
Prater XVII. 
The Improved Horizontal Buttonhole 
Starting at the front edge, work two stitches (or whatever your 
pattern calls for), bind off the next four stitches (or whatever 
your pattern calls for). Work to the end of the row. On the next 
row, work until you come to the hole, then turn your work around 
and “knit on” four stitches as in making the regular buttonhole, 
then pick up the front loop of the first bound off stitch and slip 
it onto the needle next to the knit-on stitches. Then turn your 
work around again and work to the end of the row (2 stitches). 
On the following row, work two stitches then knit together the 
““picked-up bound-off stitch’’ and the last stitch of the knit on 
stitches. 
eer 
( 
{ 
PRICK UP FRONT LooP 
. 
“4 
AND PUT obs LEFT-HAND 
NEE OLE 
This buttonhole may be used whenever you are working with knotty 
or nubby yarns and cannot plan on hand-finishing the buttonholes. 
If you are working with smooth yarn, you will be hand-finishing the 
buttonholes, and it is not necessary to use this improved buttonhole. 
Basketry 
Who knows about basketry? What do you think of this 
book? 
: 
(We asked that two years ago and received not one reply. 
Hello? Hello?) 
—SB 
Basketry 
F. J. Christopher 
1952; 108 pp. 
$1.50 postpaid 
from: 
Dover Publications, Inc. 
180 Varick Street 
New York, N. Y. 10014 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
See Epilog, pages 564-565 
Space—considerable work space—is needed for the practice of 
basketry, and it is a rather messy operation because of the 
necessity for keeping material damp. 
It is therefore not a craft 
that can be pursued in a corner of the living room (while looking 
at television). 
It also calls for a patient and careful temperament. 
Most kinds of reedwork last a very long time, if they are well 
made in the first place, but naturally they do not stay clean 
indefinitely. Reed and willow can be brushed or washed in 
clear warm water. Soap should not be used as it tends to lodge 
in the cracks. 
Raffia work can be washed with soap and water. 
It should be allowed to dry naturally away from a fire, though 
if it is left out in the'sun, it will become slightly bleached. 
tosts 
is slow to oxidize. This isa 
great protection in the home, 
especially where there are 
\ 
young children. 
/o2- 92: 208K. 
Wool may be knitted or woven 
into fabrics of delicate 
sheerness, unsurpassed by 
any other fiber, and lightness 
is one of the essentials of 
modern attire. 
X 
mons 
Knit 2 logether 
every other Tour. 
TELEPHONE CALL 
D.R. dropped two nickels in the pay phone and dialed his 
sister’s number. But as soon as he heard it ring he hung up and 
took his nickels back when they came clanging down the shoot. 
Then he was so pissed at himself for not completing the call he 
hit himself-on the leg with his fist. As the force of the blow spread 
outward through his thigh and turned to pain it made him feel so 
one-sided and imbalanced he had to hit himself on the other leg 
to keep it all from toppling over. 
There weren’t many people in the bus station that hour of 
the morning, and no one was using any of the other booths. So 
D.R. stayed in his booth after his aborted call to think things over. 
He guessed that was what Estelle was doing too. Thinking things 
over. Her pose even resembled that of The Thinker. D.R. saw her 
through the window in the door of the phone booth. She hadn’t 
moved since he left her. She sat turned to one side, one hand 
propping up her forehead, her elbow on her knee. She looked very 
unbalanced sitting like that, very awkward and unnatural. To 
balance it, D.R. sat up very straight in the phone booth, with both 
feet flat on the floor and his hands on his thighs, palms down. That 
did it for a minute or two. But then D.R. realized that his left 
nostril was stopped up, and that his breathing was very unbalanced 
asa result. His solution was to move his right foot until the heel 
was off the floor, getting the right foot out of phase as com- 
pensation for his malfunctioning left nostril. That felt pretty good. 
He held the position the next few minutes as he tried to think 
things over. 
; 
What in the goddamn hell’s going on? In the long run I really 
couldn't say, but in the short run, to tell the absolute truth about 
it, what’s going on is | want to leave Estelle here and go on out to 
Marcella’s by myself. To check things out, you dig? 
|! want to go 
see where it’s all at with them see what kind of vibes | get, sort 
of break the whole thing in easy-like, and bring Estelle out later. 
Marcella doesn’t know about Estelle. 
| didn’t mean to hold the 
information from her. | just more or less didn’t tell her | was 
travelling with a chick. And | don’t want to go busting into their 
house with a lot of weirdness and heavy vibes and freak everybody 
out, that’s all. It’s very simple. 
D.R. eased his pose then, and slumped over, relaxed. 
His little 
rap with himself wasn’t at all conclusive, but somehow he felt 
better for it. The thing to do was call Marcella and tell her where 
he was and that he’d be coming on out after while. That was the 
thing to do. 
Encouraged, and determined this time, D.R. put the nickels in 
the phone again and started to dial. He put his finger in the hole, 
he felt the cold metal of the thing you dial against his finger, he 
put his finger right up there in the old hole and started to dial. 
And then didn’t. Instead he placed the phone on the little metal 
shelf, ran to the next phone booth to get that number, then came 
back to the first booth and dialed it. When the phone in the next 
booth rang he went around and answered it. 
It was for Estelle. “Hold on a minute, please,"’ said D.R. and 
he went over to the seats and told Estelle she had a phone call. 
Slowly she lifted her head to look at him. She wasn’t crying now. 
Her eyes were red, but they were dry, and very clear. When D.R. 
| 
took her by the hand and tugged, she did not resist. She followed 
him to the phone booth and went into it as he directed. Then 
D.R. went to his booth, picked up the receiver and after clearing 
his throat said, “Hello, Estelle? This is Divine Right Davenport. 
| want to talk to you.” 
ane 3] LW’ Al | 
