_ 
The Negev 
_If you're into really dry farming, you can talk to Hopis or to 
Israelis. The Hopis haven’t done a book yet.. These Israelis 
pave and it’s fascinating business, involving detailed desert 
| study, reconstruction of ancient agricultural techniques—— 
} _ terraces, cisterns, measuring weirs, plant adaptation——the 
| 
careful life with minimum water. 
“ge 
pe 
aa The Negev——The Challenge of a Desert 
_ Michael Evenari, Leslie Shanan, Naphtali Tadmor 
1971; 345 pp. 
$1 5.00 postpaid 
_ from: 
_ Harvard University Press 
__ 
79 Garden St. 
~” Cambridge, Mass. 02138 
eo 
oe 
Sas 
RP 
eck 
~ or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
a 
_ The native wild oats (Avena sterilis), once established, was shown to 
have extremely high yields under water spreading in fertilized seed — 
_ beds——yields equaling those of seeded hay crops in a humid region. 
_ 
After satisfactory inoculation by symbiotic bacteria had been 
' reached, several medick and vetch species developed and yielded 
_ well under conditions of runoff agriculture; their yields approached 
or surpassed that of the control oats and thus were as high as or 
__ higher than those of commonly used unirrigated forage crops in 
more humid areas. 
F 
It often happens that not the whole plant but only some of its 
_ branches die. Other branches retain just as much green photo- 
synthesizing matter as can be supplied with the available water and 
this suffices to keep a few branches alive. Sometimes in extremely 
_ 
dry localities in years of great drought only a single branch out of 
-many survives in this way. During the following years the plants 
~~ 
may slowly regenerate themselves from dormant renewal buds. 
__ This is a fascinating phenomenon which shows that, paradoxically, 
_ 
when death is partial it becomes a means of survival. 
BA New Technology for Dry Land Farming 
India’s efforts against recurrent famine have led them into 
sophisticated new farming techniques for marginal land. 
_ Theyre the only farmers I’ve ever heard talk about synergy. 
: 
—SB 
A New Technology 
for Dry Land Farming 
_ 
; 
1970; 189 pp. 
By 
sf 
6 
: $1 plus shipping (about 1 |b) 
from: 
Ak Sherma 
Indian Agricultural Research Institute 
»New Delhi 12 
— 
India 
- To cite two examples, deep ploughing has been recommended for 
dry areas. This practice, however, is important only in areas where 
_ the subsoil has a highly compacted zone, thereby preventing the 
_ infiltration and movement of water and penetration of roots. 
Hence, 
_ before a particular tillage practice is advocated, a detailed study of 
soil structure would be essential. 
Also, it is obvious that if deep 
_ ploughing using suitable iron ploughs is to be adopted, the bullocks 
_ 
in that area must be better-fed and made to gain the needed strength. 
_ Thus, if in 1971 it is proposed to introduce the practice of deep 
ploughing in a village, high-protein bajra fodder and other high- 
_ quality fodder crops should be introduced in 1970. Ignoring such 
_ interactions has often been in the past the cause of condemning 
- some of the implements designed by our agricultura! engineers. 
= 
Pruning Handbook 
1972; 96 pp 
from: 
Menlo Park, CA 94025 
Heavy pruning of the apricot is essential to insure regular fruit 
- production. One-year old shoots produce a portion of the crop, 
but short-lived spurs carry the major portion. As these spurs 
are usually good for only three years, they must constantly 
be 
renewed. The tree, in suitable areas, is a very lush grower and a 
heavy bearer. Unless kept in severe check, it will rapidly become 
too large and will bear its fruit high in the tree where it 
cannot be thinned or picked easily. The lower spurs will be 
shaded out by the lush foliage and new ones will not form. 
In 
short, you would have a fine shade tree but a very unsatisfactory 
fruit tree. The necessary pruning for good fruit production 
does not always develop a graceful garden tree. 
General objectives of pruning have to do 
with modifying the growth of the plants to 
adjust it to the conditions of the garden. 
Pruning Handbook 
Sunset Editors 
$2.45 postpaid 
Lane Magazine & Book Company 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Cross section and ground plan of the cistern 
A-Entrance 
B-Cistern 
C-Rock Pillar 
D-Hole for Drawing Water 
E-Steps 
F-Wadi Bed (Nahal Zin) 
ae 
eC ET) 
Retention of rainfall as soil moisture mainly depends on the infil- 
tration characteristics of the soil, time available to the surface water 
to infiltrate, and the moisture storage capacity of the soil. Studies 
at the 1.A.R.1. have shown that infiltration rates could be significant- 
ly increased by improving the structure of the surface soil and 
by adopting suitable cultural practices. Cultural practices such as 
wheat-maize or wheat-Sorghum rotations, deep ploughing and 
incorporation of roots, stubbles and green stalks of cereal crops 
into the soil were found to be most beneficial in improving the 
structure of the top soil. Inclusion of a legume crop in the rota- 
tion would also considerably improve the structure of the surface 
layers. 
"See Epitog, page 484.485 
This booklet starts with a basic description of the way plants grow, lists pruning tools and their uses, and describes 
pruning systems for ornamental and fruit trees, berries and grapes, roses and vines. 
[Suggested by Fred Richardson] 
One way to learn the fundamentals of pruning is 
to study the mistakes that other gardeners make. 
O— 
© 
WATERSPROUTS. oN 
© 
(©) BRANCHED spur 
PROPERLY 
a 
sTus 
> ® 
+ 
{it) suckers 
Pruning Ter ninology: 
Plant Framework 
PART TWO 
THE FISHER OF MEN 
in 
About two o’clock in the morning Divine Right and Estelle 
passed through a little town that was absolutely unlit except for 
a light shining on the front of a funeral home, and a neon sign in 
front of a church across the street that said, "Dope is the Only 
Answer. Surrender Now.” Actually the sign said that Christ was 
the only answer, but somebody had crossed out “Christ” and with 
a crayon written the word Dope” just above. 
It was crude 
lettering but the message was clear enough for D.R. to dig it, and 
he took three hundred micrograms of acid on the spot. 
Half an hour later, the first messages from God began to float 
up through his soul. Feel good, God said. Feel what your eyes 
can see as smooth and soft and rounded. 
Let all the world around 
you sigh, let go and start to breathe. 
Let the steering wheel melt 
to bread dough and bake a donut in your hands. Guide Urge around 
the curves by leaning with your body, go with Urge as a sighing 
sleigh, riding high and far away, beyond the desert, behind the 
moon, you won't be coming back anytime soon. 
An image of his grandfather chopping kindling flashed on the 
movie screen of his mind as Urge’s headlights caught the gleam 
of animal eyes on the road ahead. D.R. blew the horn so hard and 
long it turned into a roar, then whooshed on out of hearing like a 
jet plane passing by. The plane became a bug that flew into his 
ear, but when he probed his finger punched on through and 
scratched his brain instead, causing sparks to fly out of his eyes 
and turn to dragonflies. The flies swarmed, flew apart all over 
the inside of the bus, then came together in a cloud of smoke above 
a burning world in front of D.R.’s eyes. Fire was everywhere. 
Urge’s headlights were darts of flame, the center-strip down the 
highway was a stream of molten red. In every grate in every room 
of some old house he'd lived in fires hissed and licked and brooded 
like inflamed sick eyes of some old ancient man. 
. Water, D.R. 
yelled, someone bring some water! He leaned and guided Urge 
from room to crowded room, swaying with his body steering Urge 
past people singing hymns on Sunday mornings as they warmed 
before the fire in grates in all the separate reéoms. He rode into a 
kitchen where someone was making donuts in a coal stove. He 
wanted one, and-took it, but his mother jerked it from him saying, 
“Honey, no, come on now, you'll have to let me drive.” 
D.R. tried to say no, but his tongue ignored his mind and 
babbled stupidly on its own likea baby’s.. He was crying like a 
baby now. Crying was the only words he had and D.R. had oh 
so much to say. He wanted to say the kitchen, and his grandfather 
building fires. He wanted to say the river he had been baptized 
in, and swimming in that river with other people who had not 
lived. He was ona riverbank now, casting far out in the stream. 
The sun was shining on him, he was naked in it, but a shadow lay 
upon the water from a bank of tall sycamores on the other side. 
D.R. reeled in and stuck another dragonfly on his hook, and cast 
again, upstream this time near an old snag of a tree where the 
water seemed to spin a little as it flowed. The hook sailed through 
the sunlight and plopped into the water a few feet from the snag. 
Instantly a giant catfish took hold and pulled so hard D.R. fell 
on the muddy riverbank and slid into the water, where an unseen 
current sucked him far into the river and dragged him down below. 
Air! he tried to call, Breath, give me breath! But his lungs were 
full of water now and he could make no sour:d. Deeper and deeper 
he sank in the dark and murky river. Nothing he could do would 
help him rise again. Nothing 
he could think would give him air. 
The chill of death entered at his fingertips and toes and slowly 
flowed up through his body to his throat to gather in a pool. 
D.R. was drowning in the pool that filled his throat and choked 
him. He felt his life go out, and turn into a fish with gills and 
scales and fins and tail, tempted by a powerful light that dangled 
from his brain. The light scared him but he nosed around it; 
lured and terrified. Against his will he nibbled at its edges. As 
soon as his lips touched the light a three-pronged hook snagged his 
throat and yanked him up. Blood filled his throat and ran out 
of his gills and eyes and asshole and spilled upon the sand. He 
struggled to ease the pressure of the hook against his flesh, but 
the fisherman only laughed and dangled him up and down. At 
last when he could stand no more the fisherman gave the line a 
\ 
jerk and ripped D.R.’s tongue out by the roots and dropped him 
bleeding'to the sand. Words rose up inside him to protest but 
they could get no farther than his throat. Words that started 
deep inside him lifted through his system to collide and fall apart 
in heaps of jumbled a b c’s. Words he'd said in childhood came 
charging into words he’d heard old preachers say in sermons long 
ago, words of preachers, words of teachers, words mysterious kin 
folks uttered-over Sunday chicken dinners into words he’d muttered 
© 
to himself in saying who he was and might become all crashed 
against the roadblock and piled up in a grave of words as dry and 
hard as bones. D.R. picked up a bone shaped like the letter W. 
He smelled it, licked his tongue across it, and held it to his ear. 
He tried an O, and R, and a broken D, but they were all the same. 
Dead. Dead. All the words were dead, not one had lived to tell 
what happened, none survived that knew the tale. Tell it! said 
the fisherman, but all he could do was cry. Tell it! said the fisher- 
‘ 
man, but all he could do was cry. The fisherman cursed and roughly 
kicked D.R. back into the river. The water scalded his wound as 
it mixed with blood and made a soup for-bones of broken letters 
D.R. clutched at for support to keep from drowning. 
1 |
f 
Farm Stuff 
Land Use 
