. 
"The Film Director As Superstar 
| If you've always hated Pauline Kael anyway and you’ve been 
_ mildly freaked because your 5 yr old kid sister just completed 
| her 3rd on-the-street-every-inch-true-to-life documentary, then 
i 
you will find comfort as well as real hope between these covers. 
This is one of those rare books on film that actually comes out 
_and says what up till now you felt only you and Godard under- 
stood: 
that Film is Revolution not A Wave and its credo is 
| the novelty of just going out and doing it. Now that we have 
| been amply and repeatedly assured that we are on the threshold 
| of a technological and aesthetic revolution in movies which will 
inevitably restructure human consciousness and understanding, 
this book says that the new sensibility obviously would be 
awfully nice in 70mm Panavision but that it will work in Super 
8 too. 
Which is just another way of saying, Hey, remember 
2001 is probably the most awesome underground movie ever 
made ($10,500,000) before, lean and crazed, you sell your soul 
| for a jr. apprenticeship on Mary Poppins. 
The 16 interviews that 
follow are a cross-section of independent directors— 
all of 
whom are just as interested in finding a new life style as 
a new 
film style. 
They are all, in one way or another, outsiders from 
Jim McBride (Greetings) whose $2500 1st film still hadn’t been 
shown theatrically 2 yrs. after he made it, to Roman Polanski 
|| who says definitely that he’s not obsessed with the bizarre and 
that his next film is going to be about the Donner Pass Cannibals, 
to Andy Warhol who says that he’s still learning how to use a 
|| camera and that they haven't really made a “‘movie” yet.. 
The 
book is not a defense of cinema vs. movies nor does it go 
: 
| through the theoretic/aesthetic trauma of The Underground vs. 
Hollywood. 
What it says is that personal films are not sprung 
full-blown from the head of the inspired amateur with his 
16mm 
| Arriflex and Nagra tape recorder slung over his shoulder. 
a 
[Reviewed by Barbara DeZonia] 
| Everybody’s looking for young talented directors. But what they 
all do is: they'll take you, a young talented director, and take a 
|| young talented writer, and a young talented producer and they'll - 
|. give you young talented property about young talented people and 
| they'll put you all together and you'll make a young talented film.’’ 
So they've called me up and said; ‘‘We’re interested in you.’’ And 
| say, ‘’Well, I’m interested in doing this movie. !'Il send you a 
| script.’’ And they say, ‘‘Well, we've got this famous book,” or 
| something like that. So | say,.“‘Forget it.”’ 
— 
[Jim McBride] 
e 
~~ 
| don't think that it is possible for a man to spend a number of 
hours discussing himself and his work and his life without 
revealing a kind of personality profile . 
. 
. one man’s evasiveness 
|'can be as eloquent as another man’s candor.” 
) A director's job in this period of filmmaking—and | know this may 
change as it has in the past—is to be an absolute dictator and 
| produce a personal vision on a subject that he has chosen. He is 
| paid too much because he has that responsibility, but what the 
| people are buying is that personal vision.”” 
: 
(aan 
[Lester] 
a 
Bit 
: 
i 
The 
Film Director 
The Film Director as Superstar 
Joseph Gelmis 
$3.50 postpaid 
from: 
: 
Doubleday & Co. Inc. 
Garden City, N.Y. 11530 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
P. Yes. The older | grow, the more | value simplicity. The more 
difficult it seems to me to make a simple film. | want my film 
to be done so the people who see it have the impression it was 
done without any effort. But, of course, there is a lot of effort 
behind it, a lot of struggle. And as for realism, the only way to 
seduce people into believing you—whether.they want to or not— 
is to take painstaking care with the details of your film, to make 
it accurate. Sloppiness destroys emotional impact. 
[Roman Polanski] 
Take One 
\TAKE ONE is a bi-monthly no nonsense film magazine 
| that reviews a good number of /ow budget films, docu- 
\mentaries, and foreign releases which generally escape the 
/notice of the big slicks. 
It has information on film 
‘festivals and some new product material. ... .so it is 
directed toward both the filmmaker and the filmwatcher. 
[Reviewed by Ron Carraher] 
| systems. using “‘light pens” . 
. 
machine to rotate his drawing, (move it in many ways) ... and put it 
‘on film... simultaneously making an electronic sound track... 
animation of drawings of great detail done in minutes... computer 
\sensing systems that study the eye’s movement over research material 
and when the eye rests on an image, the image automatically enlarges; 
if the eye rests for a longer time on the same material, the image 
changes... (imagine a french lesson on an electronic page full of 
words that are going by rapidly. 
you are reading from a display scope 
or tv screen. if a word is doubtful to you, by looking at it for three 
seconds it will enlarge itself above the other words; if you are still 
looking at it three seconds later, it will automatically change into 
English . . . ) 
ia computers as amplifiers of human imagination . . . graphic display 
. at which the artist can draw, ask the 
$5.00 /12 issues ibemanthi) 
_JM: Would you like to have a contract that gave you the final cut? 
SP: I don’t think I need one. I don’t make a picture by myself, I make 
"a picture with other people’s ideas, other people’s minds, other 
people’s bodies. We make a picture together and if they don’t like to 
~ 
work this way, then I fire them. 
} 
Take One 
from: 
Unicorn Publishing Corp: 
Post Office Box 1778 
Station B 
Montreal H3B 3L3 
CANADA 
i 
i 
I 
f 
— 
| Filmmakers Newsletter : 
The Filmmakers Newsletter is a clearing house for all and 
» any information pertaining to filmmaking. As such, it’s with: 
out any competition and fills a real need for the independen 
filmmaker. Each issue features an interview with the director 
!or cinematographer of a major motion picture on how the 
\film was made. Regular monthly features include Videotape, 
‘Super-8, Product Reports (field-tested by the staff a la 
: 
How to Make Money in Filmmaking, Building Your Own 
‘Equipment, What’s Happening (seminars, workshops, etc., 
around the country), Festival reviews and complete infor- 
mation on those upcoming, and free Classifieds. Despite its 
“name, the Filmmakers Newsletter is an 84-page monthly 
‘magazine published 11 times a year (one summer issue). 
Subscription rates are now $7.00/yr., $12.00/two years. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Phyllis Wilson] 
Filmmakers Newsletter 
from: 
Filmmakers Newsletter Co. 
P.O. Box 115 
Ward Hill, MA 01830 
J 
“Consumer Reports”), Technical Information, Book Reviews, mS 
International Film Guide 
Well, as it says right on the front, this is a “record size survey of 
film in 32 countries with at-a-glance guide to Festivals, films on 
16 mm, film books and magazines, shorts and animation, film 
schools and art houses.” 
Hard to beat that except by the 
Saturday Review’s comment: 
“eminently informative.” 
Well, 
and then too it has lots of nice stills, in-depth articles on Anderson, 
Chabrol, Ichikawa, Pasolini, and Skolimowski, a world production 
survey with articles on new films from everywhere from Israel 
to Romania to Bulgaria, a list of all current film co-operatives 
and operating theatres around the world, and a review of all 
new magazines and other publications dealing with film, plus.a 
list of film archives and film services, 
. .and all sorts of other 
stuff crammed in these fat little pages. 
Make friends with someone 
who reads sub-titles well and you'll be set no matter where in 
the world you are. 
[Reviewed by Barbara DeZonia] 
International Film Guide 
Peter Cowie, editor 
1970, 1974; 600 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
A.S. Barnes & Company 
Forsgate Drive 
Cranbury, New Jersey 08512 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Anthology Film Archives 
Monthly 
A museum of avant-garde films in New York. 
program $1. 
—SB 
Anthology Film Archives 
425 Lafayette St. 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
In the Street, 1952 (with Levitt and Loeb) 
Fireworks, 1947 
Puce Moment, 1949 
Eaux d’Artifice, 1953 
Inauguration of the Pleas#re Dome, 1954/1966 
Scorpio Rising, 1963 
Kustom Kar Kommandos, 1965 
Invocation of My Demon Brother, 1969 
Mass, 1963-64 
Quixote, 1965 
Castro Street, 1966 
All My Life, 1966 
Valentin de las Sierras, 1968 
Allures, 1961 
ReEntry, 1964 
Phenomena, 1965 
Samadhi, 1967 
Cosmas, 1970 
Agee, James: 
Anger, Kenneth: 
Baillie, Bruce: 
Belson, Jordan: 
Mr. Olney didn’t recognize D.R. but when D.R. identified him- 
self he remembered. He had buried D.R.‘s father and both his grand- 
parents. And now there was Emmit’s body following theirs through 
the same treatment in the same treatment rooms. 
Let it happen, 
D.R. thought. 
{| hate it but let it happen anyway, there’s nothing 
else to do. 
Mr. Olney was a nice old man actually, but D.R. had trouble 
with him. He said how much is this one? and when Mr. Olney said 
eleven hundred dollars D.R. laughed and asked to see the cheapest 
thing he had. This one’s two hundred and twenty, Mr. Olney said. 
It’s our cheapest model. D.R. said I'll take it. 
Mr. Olney sold suits and shirts and ties for thirty five dollars a 
set. D.R. said he couldn't afford that much, that what he'd like to 
do is help dig the grave and maybe get the suit half price. Mr. Olney 
said he believed he could manage that, and suddenly D.R. was sorry 
he'd acted weird toward Mr. Olney. He’s just an old undertaker, 
D.R. thought. Be kind to the old and the dead. 
6 
Ill be old myself before long. 
e 
I'll be dead myself some day. 
Film 
Communications 
