| Horses, Hitches and Rocky Trails 
| 1959; 117 pp. 
‘ 
| $6.00 postpaid 
| Swallow Press 
| Chicago, IIlinois 60605 
Horses, Hitches and Rocky Trails 
Right. You got your land fifteen miles into nowhere from 
the nearest roadhead. You deplore noisy trail bikes and 
ATVs, and you can’t afford a helicopter. Then you're 
into packing. Joe Back is a packer, and talker, and illus- 
trator, and he can help you. 
—SB 
HORSES, HITCHES 
AND ROCKY 
TRAILS 
Joe Back 
% 
from: 
1139 South Wabash Avenue 
JOR WOK 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
LEATHER, 
HOBBLES 
If you can, pick a good short-backed horse, thick in the body, with 
strong sturdy legs. A long-pasterned horse cripples up faster than 
one with short pasterns. 
You'll find a lot of thin, spindly-legged 
ponies that'll pack OK but they don’t stand up well. Too heavy 
and too big horses slow you down and are not agile. About a 1200 
lb. horse is just right for weight, although lots of smaller horses are 
used and stay right in the ring. The Morgan type is the boy if you 
can pick and choose, but don’t get too choosey or we'll never get 
to camp. 
If you don't balance each load, it's your hard luck. The handiest and 
cheapest too! you can buy is a fairly accurate spring or other scale 
that will take weights up to 100 or 150 pounds. 
It will last for 
years and you'll always use it. Some people like the style with a 
hook at the bottom and a ring or handle at the top. Seven or 
eight bucks for one will save you and your outfit a million dollars 
worth of grief. 
Balance the two sides of each pack, being sure they weigh the same, 
whether they're panniers, side packs of any kind, mantied cargo, 
bedrolls, tents, or any daggoned ordinary pack you load. 
Manila is the stuff. Most people, including me, like good manila 
rope for both pack and sling ropes (sling ropes 3/8 inch diameter, 
lash ropes 5/8 or sometimes 3/4 inch diameter: 
a good many times 
you will use a lash rope also for a picket rope, and will want it big 
for safety). Of course, you can use sisal, which is cheaper, and | 
think much weaker and less durable than manila. Cotton is good, 
but boy! when she gets wet and frozen you need a hacksaw blade 
‘SLIvING Rine~ 
B 
pov BLE 
(OR omoNnD 
Ube tae Snes 
ROPE BETWEEN THE 
ai - END RINGS 
7° 
a AOS UST SIZE oF 
i DIAMONDS FNO 
To TIGHTEN UP 
IF NFEPED = 
FOP VIEW | 
‘ 
OND 
\ Diairer 
aut UED/ 
“for your knots. Nylon is a billionaire’s dream, and say, Bud, try 
to splice one! 
Besides, you've seen the ads praising the stretch in 
milady’s nylons; it's so, it never stops, you can’t keep it tight. 
| The Spanish Mustang Horse 
The horse of the Spanish conquerors, Indian pony, and ori- 
| ginal wild horse has suffered as bad a fate as his native 
American masters. 
Castrated, crossbred and shot for dog 
food, he is almost extinct. 
There is now a registry, founded 
by Bob and Ferdinand Brislawn, for the preservation of the 
mustang horse. Most of the foundation stock was caught 
| wild in remote areas or found on Indian reservations. 
They are small horses (12 to 14.2 hands). 
Their speed, 
_ endurance, and ability to withstand hard winters on little 
| food islegendary. One Mustang, Yellow Fox, won the 100 
| mile Bitterroot, Montana, endurance ride at age eighteen. 
They come in conventional colors— bay, sorrel, black, 
chestnut— and in many others— blue and red roan, medi- 
cine hat, grulla, bluecorn, buckskin, claybank, overo paint, 
) -steeldust. 
. 
. 
Regarding horses and ecology. When cars first came in, 
everybody said, “At last our streets will be clean and 
safe.” As horse turds dropped off, the English sparrow 
population was drastically reduced. 
—SB 
Horse Freaks of the World... 
As you may well realize, our planet is becoming foul. An 
answer, perhaps? Horses, manure is better than pollution. 
| have noticed that many a freak has realized that the horse 
sometimes proves himself_better than the car, and that 
| 
since horses can be kept cheaper than a car, on the whole, 
‘they are really more economical. 
: 
As a horsewoman.and a freak | am aware that many a freak 
doesn’t have information at hand, and the books dealing 
with horses don’t really go into the aspects of horses vs. 
the people that really appreciate the horse, more than the 
red neck thinks he does. Anyway, all the books you can 
find on the subject have a minimum requirement for owning 
horses; at least an annual income of $9000 or more. But 
this isn’t necessary. There are secrets one cannot find over 
night in owning horses, but, if anyone would like to try 
they are more than welcome to write me, and | am sure, 
if 
| can get it all together, | can help them take care of their 
~ 
horses on a minimum of $5 a month, and have them take 
For anyone who needs a good, tough, dependable, intelligent, 
| quick, sure-footed, little horse, the Spanish Mustang is the 
| answer. 
“BEBEBS POUR ORUUPEURORER 
OU OPO 
a 
care of them well (a sick horse is no horse at all, remember.). 
To repeat, if anyone would like some enlightening answers 
to some puzzling questions concerning the freak and the 
horse, living compatably together, do write. 
Love, 
Gail Lusk 
P. O. Box 802 
Idaho Springs, Colorado 80452 
P.S. In case you have any doubts about my qualifications, 
| used to be a Texas red neck that rode barrel racing rodeo 
_ 
routes. Enough. 
Kamawi, No. 115, black stallion 
“His qualities are complete. Now he looks anxious; now to be 
losing the way; now to be forgetting himself. Such a horse 
prances along, or rushes on, spurning the dust and not know- 
ing where he is."’ 
Chuang-Tzu, Book XXIV, Part II!, Section !1,1 Trans. James Legge 
Sioux Indian Saddle 
| noticed you had a section on Horse books in the Spring 
catalog and thought you might be interested in the saddle 
we make. This type saddle was used by plains Indians 
warriors and is very practical. 
It is much lighter, cheaper, 
and more comfortable than a western saddle which. was 
designed for roping cows more than for riding. It is made 
by hand of high quality materials and is very durable. 
Your readers might also be interested in buying a product 
made by members of a rural crafts co-operative rather than 
more exploitative type factories. 
These saddles retail for $55 postpaid. They are available 
in rust, dark brown, cedar, or beige colors. 
Tolstoy Handicrafts 
Rt. 3, Box 70 
Davenport, WA 99122 
Sioux Indian Saddle— Suede cowhide, padded with thick foam- 
rubber. Adjustable cinch and stirrup straps of heavy harness leather 
comes complete with cinch and stirrups. More comfortable for 
horse and rider than any other kind of saddle. 
They make good pack, cart, children, saddle, or even light 
plow horses. Mustangs are priced from cheap ($100 to $150 
for a registered colt) to expensive, depending on the breeder. 
Most breeders are old-timers and reasonable. We bought 
three last year in Wyoming and are very well satisfied. 
They 
are remarkably fast learners. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Paul Bandy] 
For information and breeders list write: 
Information Headquarters 
Bob Racicot, Exec. Secretary 
Box 26, Thompson Falls 
Montana 59873 
IN THE FLESH 
But it was not a dream. Those were really beasts outside the 
windows, and that was really David, sleeping there beside him 
on the bed. D.R. felt as if his blood was full of methedrine. 
Something racing through his mind increased its speed so much 
it disappeared completely out of sight. The half of D.R. that was 
steeping was a separate, living person! 
It was really David, sound 
asleep beside him, like a child. Surely it’s a dream, he thought. 
Surely that’s me sleeping, and all of this I’m seeing is a dream. 
D.R. leaned up on his elbow and looked around. He breathed 
deeply, and smelled and listened. 
Urge’s motor whirred beneath 
him, Estelle’s odor rose into his nostrils from the bed. Virgil 
was up front at the steering wheel, guiding Urge around the curves, 
shifting gears from time to time, driving slowly. The world inside 
the bus was still in place. And David was a living person in it 
with him, lying there before him in the flesh. 
Is he really in the flesh? D.R. wondered. 
Is that really 
David there beside me, or are we somehow mixed up in each other 
dreams? 
Touch him, D.R. thought. Touch his face and feel if he is 
breathing. 
Don’t touch him! D.R. told himself. 
Let him lie there, don’t! 
With the tips of his fingers D.R. touched David just below 
the lobe of his left ear. David stirred and smiled with pleasure, 
he yawned and stretched and opened wide his eyes. When D.R. 
started whimpering David touched his finger to his lips and 
whispered shhhhbh. He was sitting up now, looking deeply into 
D.R.’s face. Moving very slowly, David leaned and placed his 
head on D.R.’s shoulder. Don’t be afraid, he whispered. 
| love 
you, and you mustn't be afraid. David kissed him then, he kissed 
him on the neck and lightly on’the corner of his mouth. Then he 
took D.R. by the shoulders and pressing tried to stretch him out 
full length upon the mattress. 
“No.” 
“Shhhhbhh,”’ David whispered. 
“1 don’t care. 
| don’t feel like lying down.” 
“What's that you say?” Virgil called out through the car. 
"1 said | don’t much feel like lying down.” 
“Well,” said Virgil. “It’s just as well. 
I'll be getting out in 
another mile or two.” 
Horses 
Nomadics 
