| Ferro cement is a super strong %” thick fireproof material 
used for boat hulls, consisting of a mixture of sand and 
cement plastered over a wire framework. /t is cheaper and 
| 
easier than conventional boat-building techniques and very 
few special tools are needed. This is a textbook on building 
a ferro cement boat where the authors share details of their 
considerable experience. There is a fine concise section on 
how to build, and chapters on reinforcing, mortar mixing, 
and finish work. 
- 
| 
(a) A rough and ready rowboat can be built from beach sand and 
cement as follows. Although not in the best tradition of ferro- 
° 
cement, the form of construction is beautifully simple and inexpen- 
sive. 
It could conceivably have a military application. 
(b) First forma mould of damp beach sand. Mix in a little fast- 
setting cement for the outer layer. Cover with polythene cut and 
taped where needed. 
(c) Next cover ‘with approximately four layers of %" chicken netting. 
Wire tie at overlaps and hold at gunwale with a band of No. 8 
fencing wire. Additional bands of fencing wire over the hull add 
stiffness. Wire mesh to these. 
(d) Finally plaster with beach sand and quick setting cement mixed 
2 to 1 with a minimum of water. Plaster layer of approximately %’, 
thickening to an inch at the gunwale, more at the keel. After two 
i 
| 
| Ferro cement should work well on land... let us know if 
| you hear of any F. C. domes. 
—Lloyd Kahn 
Goncrete Boatbuilding 
Its Technique and Its Future 
Gainor W. Jackson 
W. Morley Sutherland 
. 
$9.95 bostpaid 
from: 
John de Graaf, Inc. 
34 Oak Street 
Tuckahoe, New York 10707 
Concrete 
Boatbuilding 
ITS TECHNIQUE AND ITS FUTURE 
By 
GAINOR W. JACKSON 
W. MORLEY SUTHERLAND 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Tongue-in-Groove Bricks 
Good design on an old idea: stacking blocks--concrete, with 
grooves and ridges which lock the whole thing together. No 
mortar required, since everything interlocks. Also makes the 
~ blocks reusable. If you move--take your house apart and 
move it with you. Blocks are sold by franchised dealers of 
_Wedge-Block, Inc, 10439 Garibaldi, St. Louis 63131 but the 
molds for do-it-yourself should be simple to make. 
Tom Cryar 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 
el 
eee aN 
This is a quarterly review of the work being done at the Institute 
¢ for Lightweight Struetures, University of Stuttgart. 
Frei Otto is 
director.- 
This issue (the first) is concerned with the experimental 
determination of minimal nets. 
The subject is carefully defined, 
and the ingenious devices for measurement are explained in detail. 
The results of the explorations are presented in a series of good 
photographs. 
The whole publication has the feeling of disciplined 
investigation that you see in scientific periodicals such as Science. 
If Frei Otto’s work interests you, IL is the way to keep up with 
what's going on. 
The next IL will be “Biology and Building”. It 
should be good. 7 jssues so tar, $4.50 to $27.50 
; 
[Reviewed by Jay Baldwin 
\ 
\ 
a 
IL 1 
Nee 
IL 1 
Frei Otto, Berthold Burchhardt 
1970; 56pp~ 
$4.50 postpaid 
from: 
. Wittenborn & Co. 
1018 Madison Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10021 
days, lift hull from mould, patch up inside and where possible sink 
boat to cure concrete for a few days. —_— 
Fig. 10—Shoestring rowboat 
Stack Sacks 
Between adobe bricks and formed concrete walls is this other way. You take 
gunny sack Halves, sew them into narrow bags, fill them with sand and some 
concrete, stack the dry bags up like bricks, pound re-bar.down through the 
bags, frame doorways and such with re-bar, then wet the whole wall with a 
hose or a rainstorm, let cure, put on the roof (maybe with wet-concrete- 
dipped gunny sacks for shingles). Trowel on wet concrete for a smooth wall 
if you want it. 
‘ 
According to Holly Baer, who told us, the main source of information is: 
Dicker Stack Sack International 
2600 Fairmont Street 
Dallas, Texas 75201 
They are getting a patent on the device that turns out filled bags. Apparently 
- 
local franchises can deliver an order of stack sacks to your door. Some people 
dip them in water, then place them wet. 
fee 
REO gee 
*” 
/ 
= 
so 
‘ 
Nahas cs eee 
Before | tell my life story | want to explain where I’m going, 
and why. My destination is Norman, Oklahoma. 
| used to be a 
student at the state university in Norman, and I’m on my way there 
now to destroy a certain manuscript that | wrote and left there in 
the library, for posterity. | didn’t have any way of realizing it 
at the time, but leaving that manuscript behind on that campus 
was one of the worst mistakes I've made in a lifetime filled with 
mistakes, and the most important thing | have to do at this point 
in my life is correct that mistake be getting hold of the manuscript 
and destroying it. 
It’s got to be destroyed because the story of my life from 1930 
to 1955 is told on those pages. Except for that record, that whole 
early phase of my life is totally lost to memory. 
| don’t remember 
bd 
anything-that’s in the manuscript, and I've forgotten the name 
of the person that manuscript is about. 
It’s taken me fifteen years 
of constant labor to arrive at my present state of mind and I’m 
proud of that achievement. 
Yet | can’t relax in my condition of 
forgetfulness because | know that one glimpse at that manuscript 
would bring it all back again, and my efforts these last years would 
all have been for nothing. | realize it’s pretty unlikely that | 
would ever accidentally find myself reading the manuscript. 
There’s only the one copy, gathering dust all these years in the 
stacks of the University library. But as long as that manuscript 
exists, intact, the possibility exists that | might see it, and | am 
haunted by that possibility. The very worst thing that could 
happen to me is to have the knowledge of my early life re-implanted 
in my mind. 
THE GREEK’S LIFE STORY 
(continued) 
a 
Concrete 
Shelter 
