. 
Compost Science 
magazine concerning itself 
with teaching the world to compost 
instead of dump or trash. full 
range of ideascope from city conversion 
down to pressing and storing chickenshit bricks. 
good community awareness, printed by rodale. 
—jd 
Compost Science 
Jerome Goldstein, editor 
$6.00 per year (bimonthly) 
$1 .00 single copy 
from: 
Rodale Press 
33 East Minor Street 
Emmaus, Pennsylvania 18049 
The use of composting to convert organic solid waste into a fertilizer, 
soil conditioner or nutrient source, is a topic of discussion and 
controversy. Actually the real value of this process is disposal of 
solid waste with the production of a usable aesthetically non- 
objectionable and hygienically safe residue. In this process, carbon 
in a high energy form and nutrient elements are returned for 
reuse in the ecological cycle rather than destroyed as done by 
incineration. Various modifications of the basic process are 
used throughout the world for the disposal of night soil, sewage 
sludge and refuse. In the United States, the interest in composting 
has been rather limited. It has been stated that the lack of enthusiasm 
for composting in this country follows from the American tradition 
of putting wastes ‘’out of 
mind’ which in effect obstructs any 
interest in reclaiming organic solids. Recently, some cities have 
recognized its potential as a method of refuse disposal as other 
methods of treating solid waste become uneconomical. 
Past attempts to produce and market compost have met with 
limited success. Failure is often due to the inability to market 
the compost competitively with chemical fertilizers. The high 
paper content of a typical urban solid waste makes the material 
resistant to degradation by composting microorganisms. Consequently, 
with the limited technology available, existing compost plants 
operate inefficiently and cannot stabilize the organic material 
rapidly or completely. 
Swedish Composter 
Luoks like it could be made as a do-it-yourself kind of kit — the 
inventor is looking for someone in U.S. to manufacture — any 
suggestions? 
(Suggested by Ernest Rimerman) 
CLIVUS IS NOT TO BE CONNECTED TO WATER 
OR SEWER SYSTEMS 
The waste decomposes added by the supply of air andthe inherent 
moisture (urine, wet garbage, etc.). Water vapour and carbon di- 
oxide rise through the exhaust duct after leaving the waste mass 
which decreases considerably in volume and moves slowly towards 
the lowest chamber where the final products (soil, humus, nutritive 
salts) accumulate. They can be utilized as fertilizer — normally first 
after about 2 years and with intervals e.g. of 1—2 years. 
Clivus is designed to meet the need for convenience and a hygienic 
and natural means of diminishing household waste and converting re- 
mains to soil restorer on the site. 
A household with Clivus needs drainage for bath, dish and laundry 
water only (purification separately by method suited to local condi- 
tions — information concerning valid regulations can be obtained 
from the health authorities). Since Clivus takes kitchen waste nor- 
mally poured down the drain, the sewer is relieved of such matter. 
Through purification on site: transportation (vehicles, sewers, etc.) 
of refuse can be reduced or eliminated; outflow and spreading of 
contaminated matter in ground and water is prevented; the quantity 
of pure water used solely for the transport of excrement and refuse 
in the sewage network can be put to better use. 
See Epilog, page 5 
Microphor Sewage 
Hark the crises of waste water disposal. 
. .and Behold this ecologic- 
ally and biologically sound contraption: 
“The Microphone Sewage Treatment System.” This isa self con- 
tained treatment plant designed to replace the septic tank for a 
small installation-such as home(s), school, motel, small industry, 
etc. 
It uses redwood bark as a substrate for biological degradation 
of suspended and dissolved wastes, i.e., its three chambers perform 
the equivalent of primary and secondary treatment giving an 
effluent usable for agriculture, etc. 
Being tried by 
Joe Brennan 
Moss Beach, CA 
Information available from the inventor: 
Edward Burton 
Microphor, Inc. 
452 East Hill Road 
Willits, CA 95490 
Compost 
Land Use 
Methane Gas Production——Harold Bate 
CHICKEN MANURE FUEL: ‘Puta chicken in your tank’’ may 
never match the zap of Esso’s ‘Put a tiger in your tank’ slogan. 
But British inventor Harold Bate will tell you that chicken power 
will run your car faster, cleaner and better than gasoline. 
Bate has found a way of converting chicken droppings into gas——and 
runs his automobile on it. 
By processing methane gas from rotted chicken manure and 
feeding it to the engine through a special device he invented, Bate 
says he has managed to drive his 1953 Hillman at speeds up to 
75 m.p.h. without the use of gasoline. 
At his farmhouse in Devon, Bate, 62, told an ENQUIRER reporter: 
“This is the thing of the future. 
. .all you need is a couple of 
buckets of manure, a tin drum and my carburetor conversion device, 
and you're in business.” 
Bate’s ‘‘chicken coupe”’ has been investigated and upheld by the 
British Ministry of Transport. 
“We've looked into it,” Frank Standing, information officer for the 
ministry told the ENQUIRER, “‘and the device works perfectly. 
“However, as to mass use, that seems doubtful. There is simply not 
enough of a supply of chicken manure to provide fuel for autos 
on a mass basis.” 
Bate says he has been running his car and five-ton truck on the 
methane gas——as well as heating his home with it——for years. 
“The method is really very simple,” Bate said. “‘You just put about 
three buckets of manure into a sealed oil drum. Put a small oil 
heater under the drum to keep the manure at a steady 80 degrees. 
“There are two microbes in the manure which, when heated, eat 
each other——this produces the gas. 
“You can collect the gas in bottles or in plastic balloons for storage. 
Then all you do is feed the methane through an adapter into your 
carburetor——and you've got chicken power. 
“| keep replenishing my manure supply every 2 or 3 weeks.” 
Bate said the conversion from gasoline to methane power can be 
made in two hours and requires no special tools. The only engine 
alteration required is the installation of Bate’s patented device which 
feeds the methane from the bottle to the carburetor. 
The gas, sucked into the engine by the cylinders, is ignited in the 
usual manner by the spark plugs to produce power. 
Methane is not only cheap and efficient, said the inventor, but it is 
better for your car——no carbon deposit on your cylinders and no 
engine wear and no poisonous carbon monoxide fumes. 
(Taken from NATIONAL ENQUIRER June 1970) 
BRE PRBS 
RESERRES EERE CREPE 
eee eee 
cLivus 
Container consists of @ top and 2 
Bottom section 
and, 
ler 
Container in functioning portion: 
‘eight = 220m oF 250 em oF 
10 
cm, length = 295 cm max, 
ch © 120.¢m. 
high 
exhaust 
duct 
28 
ved 
garden soi! about 5 cm 
peat mould about 10~12 em 
295em 
Decompotition generetes 4 certain amount 
of 
hest. The container 
end the parts of 
the exheusy Jucts 
whick are exposed 10 
cold elr should be 
insulated s0 that « temperature ferourable 10 
vent 
(0 the process con be 
maintained. 
For further particulars concerning design, information 
or sales please write to: 
S- 13500 Tyreso 
717 05 59) 
ABCLIVUS 
- 
Tonstigen6 
- 
Phone 08/770 04 33 (7701207 
- 
Bardmatic Garbage Eliminator 
If you have a washing machine, you may have the money and 
desire for the convenience of this ready-made trouble-free 
kitchen garbage digester-composter. 
—SB 
Bardmatic Garbage Eliminator System 
$70-80 
from: 
Bardmatic Corporation 
Box 1306 
Evanston, Illinois 60204 
Methane Production in India 
For more detailed information on methane production from 
various organic wastes, send request and a large stamped 
return envelope to: 
Ram Bux Singh 
Gobar Gas Research Station 
Ajitmal (Etawah) 
U.P. 
INDIA 
© 
The Device is ready for connecting to the engine and is complete with 
Instructions and Drawings--also Instructions and Drawings for Methane — 
Gas Production from Chicken--Pig--Cow--Sheep--Horse and Human 
manure--also the construction of Methane Gas Digesters of all sizes 
and costing from £5 upwards. The price is $55 which included 
the Device and the two sets of Instructions and Drawings--also the 
Postage by Air Mail to any part of the world. 
Thanking you; 
| Am Yours Sincerely; 
Harold Bate. 
Pennyrowden 
Blackawton 
Fotnes—Devon 
TQ 9.7 Dn. 
England 
ay 
Conversions by Earth Move 
Since 1971 we have supplied an improving ‘all-our-own-work’ 
convertor based on the same British-made components as Harold 
Bate’s, but with American engines in mind. Earth Move’s conver- 
sion kit booklet now tops 100 pages and is set to double again 
during ’74. 
‘Home-brew’ gas—clean and fuel free—can be digested out of all 
kinds of so-called wastes .. 
. not just chicken manure. 
And methane 
plant design has moved from the bottom of the garden into housing, 
homesteads, farms, feedlots .. 
. until even city garbage dumps start 
to look like natural resources. Earth Move has become a clearing 
house for all these kinds of methanical wizardry and—more 
— 
recently—research-backer and test bed too. If the limits are there, 
~ 
we don’t see them yet. 
The Earth Move gas conversion will fit into any car; run on 
home-brew methane, propane (LPG), natural gas—and some we 
— 
haven't tried yet—at pressured from zero to 200psi without a 
regulator. You can switch off and go back to gasoline too. 
Mention model and year when ordering and please state number 
of carburetors or barrels. The package price of $35.00 includes 
delivery ... anywhere on Earth. 
; 
Earth Move 
P.O. Box 252 
Winchester, MA. 01890 
SBEBRBSSRPBPRERBRBRESRSRESSESHRERSRSERSSSERBRSRERERSSESSES- 
Where to Get Compost Makers 
| suggest that the WHOLE EARTH CATALOG list and de- 
scribe the various Shredder/Grinders used for composting. 
Attached is a list which | have compiled of several manufac- _ 
turers who advertize in the magazine Organic Gardening and — 
Farming. 
List of Companies Manufacturing Shredder-Grinders 
Amerind-MacKissic Incorporated 
ei 
Box 111, Dept. O 
- 
Parker Ford, Penna. 19457 
California-McCulloch Equipment Co. 
Box 3068 
Torrance, California 90510 
Gilson Brothers Company 
Ree 
ye 
P.O. Box 152, Dept. C 
3 
Plymouth, Wisconsin 53073 
5 
The Roto-Hoe Company 
Kemp Company 
Dept.2 
: 
602 Kemp Bldg. 
Newbury, Ohio 44065 
Erie, Penn. 16512 
W-W Grinder Corp. 
Red Cross Mfg. Corp. 
2957B No. Market 
Bluffton, Indiana 46714 
James G Hupp He 
Orinda, CAy 
Composter in the Sky 
My wife & | recently moved to Ben Lomond from Atlanta & are 
unaccustomed to trash & garbage disposal problems, although we 
had some difficulties in Atlanta. We've been very interestedina 
 — 
composter, & my wife, Sandi, believes she’s found the best. 
It’s 
maintenance free, accepts any food scraps——except coffee grounds, 
which go to the ivy, is absolutely odor-free, rather handsome & 
; 
extremely convenient. 
It’s the California Blue Jay. It’s only draw-- 
back is the noise factor. My wife has tried lubricating with meat 
— 
grease but that had no apparent effect. 
, 
$ 
Really, Sandi says the blue jays eat anything——she puts all the 
~ 
garbage on an old redwood stump on the hill in back of our cabin 
& the jays have it cleaned up in a few minutes. 
If anyone knows 
how to make them run silently, please let us know. 
~ 
Dave & Sandi 
Ben Lomond 
2 
Wichita, Kansas 67219 
¢ 
x 
ee 
1S ab
ar 
ncib
im: 
act
e
eee
é 
. 
Mls 
5 
ae 
Be 
AE
eons
site
e
ee 
