Natural Life Styles 
_ The Whole Earth Catalog never became what it started out to 
be. Natural Life Styles comes closer. They take the time and 
(believe me) trouble to do a full job on subjects, like a long 
illustrated rambling talk with Euell Gibbons, a thorough 
and so forth. A hell of a lot of information for a dollar. 
}, 
Layout is funky but not obscure. Hang in there folks. Stay 
| loose. 
—SB 
| Natural Life Styles 
| $9 /yr (bimonthly) 
from: 
Natural Life Styles 
Box 1101. 
Felton, Calif. 95108 
Alpine Designs, formerly Alp Sport, PO Box 1081, 3235-45 
| Prairie Ave., Boulder, Colorado 80302, is a small company gone 
| big time. They make excellent packs, pack bags, sleeping bags, 
| tents and down clothes. Straightforward presentation with closeup 
| of black and white photographs that give you a good idea of how 
| 
the equipment actually looks. 
i 
Also from: 
| Gordon & Breach 
| Science Publications 
| One Park Avenue 
| New York, N.Y. 10016 
| single copies 
| $1.50 
}) OUR PRECTOUS 
PETS by Ann Wigmore, 
D.D. 
($.95) 
\ational Humane 
| League, 
25 Exeter St., Boston, 
Mass. 
02116. 
Ann Wigmore has been 
| known 
for years 
for the healing therapy program presented 
at 
the 
|| 
Hippocrates 
Ilealth 
Institute 
in Boston. 
She offers 
her insights 
and techniques, 
to both humans 
and animal« 
alike. 
As 
a raw food, 
vegetarian her discoveries 
are quite different 
from any other pet 
| publication you are 
apt 
to encounter. 
crown for delicious steaming. 
Vision, With Rap 
| | like your collective prose and the selections, under-the-skin 
| communication. So therefore | feel called upon to criticize, 
| 
no matter what your reasons for stopping publication, even of 
| the most personal sort! I’m a new convert, and we are the 
| 
crankiest! 
| Anyway, here are my suggestions. The catalogue and the 
truck store, truly beautiful in their concepts of space-mind 
preparations, stop short. There are other tools beside books. 
| We do need to arm ourselves with knowledge and a clear 
mind to perceive, among other things the applications of 
_ knowledge. But reading is a limited way to understanding. 
When | came to the truck store, impatient to get there, I’d 
expected to find too/s, models, materials, 
a community 
| making a new design for Stores, that is——Information 
§ Centers, a place where you launch a new beginnings from. 
| | would've like to see displays such as macrame and weaving, 
| wind generators, plus having the wind generator working and 
producing, what? maybe lights and color machines, or tape 
| music, or better yet, if we are speaking of new communities, 
| running a motorized pump, that someone there has devised, 
| with only available materials and his imagination. And so 
on. | suppose you'd need more room, but that might be 
_ exciting too! Could you go a bit farther out, close enough 
to urban‘centers, but still on the land itself, could the shape 
of the store change often——could people design, out of 
cheap materials, or plentiful materials, 
a changing line of 
| Stores. 
I'd like to make a huge canvas shape, for instance, 
| having it bulge and corner and dome where needed, held 
| up by plastic rods, or aluminum poles——or another of 
scraps, driftwood and scrap metal. How about a small, 
shifting community, as people moved outward on their 
| spiral, others come in who were interested in the Whole 
_ Earth concept, and also in spending some time in devising 
needed tools for where the truck store was at, putting 
together solar water heaters, hand made cowboy horse 
gear, (if of course you had horses!) organic gardens to’ 
feed this Whole Earth Truck Store Family. | think you 
have a lot of very committed people out here, who'd like 
to come together to really do things, solve common prob- 
lems and learn. 
| think that this should happen in a real 
| situation——there are many free university type courses, 
| dealing well with theory and practices. | think a new book 
_ store could perhaps offer information in a more real way. 
| That a small staff——or group—— could work out many 
solutions to new communities, to ecology and survival. The 
| customers to your store could really be involved in these 
solutions, checking them out, offering their own, would in 
fact, be as neighbors concerned with the success of problems 
solved, not just in theory. The catalogue could, if publishing 
were continued become more as the supplements, be indexes 
of real experience (as the story of Libre, and Gary’s Four 
Changes). : 
letter on New Zealand, a comparative list of outdoor suppliers, 
Mature dandelions can be trimmed to the center 
Hw SERB BPRS REPRESSES RREESRSERRERERSRRBRSRRRERBRBETEE ESSERE RSRSRSRRERPRESRESSSERESRSERBESSSE 
Mother Earth News 
Takes you a little further down the road Whole Earth 
Catalog has pointed out; with complete “how-to” 
articles 
on subjects like persimmon leather, horseshoeing, free-lance 
cartooning, songpublishing and copyrighting, getting into 
Canada, recycling schoolhouses and dandelion wine. 
The entire second issue of TMEN was devoted to a reprint 
of The Have-More Plan, a 1944 get-back-to-the-land 
piece that touches on just about every problem involved in 
setting up a self-sufficient homestead on a few acres. 
—Hal Hershey 
The Mother Earth News 
$10.00 per year (6 issues) $14/2 yrs, $20/3 yrs 
Lifetime subscription: $120.00 
Foreign: $10/yr, $18/2 yrs, $26/3 yrs 
from: 
> 
The Mother Earth News 
P.O. Box 70 
Hendersonville, NC 28739 
| mentioned earlier my own feeling of diet imbalance, and | 
know that this is not your responsibility; there are groups 
out in the ‘‘wilderness’”’ learning just how one digs a well. 
There are many more people getting ready to go out, and 
not quite knowing how. | suppose we will all find out when 
the need hits us, soon enough! | also feel you've done a lot. 
So much, in fact, that | would like to see you continue. 
If 
| haven't totally turned you off by my Virgo-Vision, perhaps 
we can get togeiher some time and rap about dream theories. 
Thank you for creating the Whole Earth, 
Sincerely, 
: 
Ann Hatch 
~ San Anselmo, CA 
I’m impressed with these ideas and moved by the vision. 
| 
expect It’s not all that individual a vision, either; many of 
our readers and customers may have felt vague rumblings 
along these same lines, not to mention our own staff. We 
did rap with Ann——no indication yet whether she’ll go any 
further with it. We can’t do anything to actuate or realize 
this particular vision, beautiful as it is, and still continue the 
trip’ we're into at the Truck Store, which has its own dictates 
(time, energy, direction, money, space), its own pace, meaning, 
goals, joys, frustrations, tiresomeness, challenge and beauty. 
. 
By the same token, there’s nothing that would turn us on more ® 
than to see it happen. A lot of times, when people say, why 
don’t you do such & such, we say hey that’s a groovy idea, 
why don’t you do it? We’re doing our ideas and even that 
seems a bit much to tackle at times. 
/ dunno, it’s always 
seemed to me that one of the main things the CATALOG 
says is do it yourself, man. We dig most of the criticisms 
we get very much, whether or not we make changes around 
them. What / don’t dig is the underlying feeling | sometimes 
get that we’re being asked to do stuff that belongs by its 
very nature to the head that thought it up, to do it. [t would 
be so much better ecology if some of the mental energy 
that gets directed toward us were directed instead towards 
the-real and physical realization of the ideas. A /ot of visions 
don’t ever get out of the head, and that can be a waste. 
Some get as far as being down on paper, and that’s a begin- 
ning. Only! Or get stopped after they’ve been rapped 
about, because there’s a false sense that something has 
happened. And again, we really don’t mind having visions 
laid on us. But 1, for one, keep wishing folks would realize 
that we may dig it, encourage it, feed it however we can, 
but in approximately ten cases out of ten we aren’t going 
to DO It: So, all you visionaries, consider, instead, laying 
it on your own self, and you might find out whether it’s 
just a trip, or an idea worth realizing in your own life. | 
understand more and more why 
our collective failures 
so outnumber our successes. 
/t’s just very much damned 
harder to succeed and take the responsibility of that 
position. Who'll do this one? 
—Diana Shugart 
}@ HEAT YOUR SHOP, BARN OR HOUSE FREE THIS WINTER 
| @ 
RECYCLE A SCHOOLHOUSE: GET A $15,000 HOME FOR $4,000 
@ BARTER YOUR HANDCRAFTS FOR WHATEVER YOU WANT 
@ ORGANIC GARDENING: NEXT YEAR’S HARVEST STARTS NOW 
L @ HOW TO COPYRIGHT, PUBLISH AND RECORD A SONG 
| @ COUSTEAU SPEAKS OUT ON MAN'S RAPE OF THE OCEAN 
@ A NEW SERIES: HOW TO PLAN AND BUILD YOUR HOMESTEAD 
‘@ HORSESHOEING FOR THE RANK BEGINNER 
© NEW YORK's “BIG CITY” COMMUNE 
@ WILD FOODS FREE FOR THE EATING 
@ HOW TO HOMESTEAD IN ALBERTA 
@ BACK TAX LAND INCANADA {= 
@ THE FRONTIER SOD HOUSE 
/ Foe 
@ MAKE YOUR OWN WINE 
@ HARNESS THE WIND 
@ and MORE INSIDE! 
ane 
| suppose the ideal location for a pond would be a half-acre (or 
larger) gulley or valley with clay soil, located on,a gentle, grassy 
slope directly below a spring or artesian well. All a builder would 
have to do, in such a situation, is build an earth dam (with a spillway 
or drain pipe to control the water's depth) across the lower end of 
the depression and let it fill. 
1f you've got the gulley and slope but not the spring or well, you 
may still be in luck. ‘As long.as you have five acres drainage for 
each square foot of water that is six feet deep in your mini-lake, 
you can build the dam and let the rainwater runoff from the hillside 
fill your._pond. As a matter of fact, you can get by without the 
guiley and slope. Even if your homestead is flat as a pancake you 
can still have that “private fishin’ and swimmin’ hole”’.. .by 
excavating. 
An excavated pond is more work but it’s also the most versatile 
(therefore, most popular) mini-lake. Such a pond can be located 
anywhere.a source of water is available or can be made avai:able. 
An excavation— instead of a dam— can even be placed in one of 
the gullies mentioned earlier and, so located, would probably be 
easier fo keep full of water than a dug-out pond on level land. 
Most valley ponds are at least semi-excavated, as a matter of 
fact: the dam at the gulley’s lower end being constructed, generally, 
of clay bulldozed out and. pushed down from above. 
The only minus factor (vastly overstressed in my opinion) of an 
excavated pond is the difficulty involved in draining such a 
reservoir dug into level ground. 
| believe, once your pond is stocked, 
you'll find yourself muchsmore concerned with how to keep the 
water in than with how to let it out. A pond can always be speedily 
drained with a large pump that can be borrowed or rented if you 
don’t have one of your own. 
There are still other ways.to get a pond constructed for very little 
out-of-pocket cash. 
If yours is to be located at least one-half mile 
from human habitation, blasting is a very reasonable way to remove 
the dirt. 
It’s not necessary to pay for dynamite to move all that 
earth, either, although dynamite will be used to trigger the blast. 
The main explosive element is Ammonium Nitrate saturated with 
fuel oil. This is the same Ammonium Nitrate farmers use for 
fertilizer and the fuel oil is the number two grade available at any 
service station. A good-sized pond can be blasted for less than ten 
dollars with this method. 
Before you try it, however, you should 
obtain a copy of the booklet, “Blasting Potholes For Wildlife” 
from the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources, Box 450, 
Madison, Wisconsin 53701. 
POOR OROREREPRRER 
EUR UR U UP OP UEP ER eee E gg aT 
Journalistic Opportunity 
The big question is: How do you implement a good intention 
or a good vision or even a good plan? If the counter culture 
is going to live up to its name it’s going to have to shift from 
the role of critic to that of producer. 
It’s going to have to 
produce viable examples of what it’s asking for— or else in- 
validate its discontent. 
It seems to me that this need suggests 
a journalistic opportunity that has barely been touched: the 
great labor of discovering who has made a better what, and 
how did he do it. 
Wendell Berry 
Port Royal, Kentucky 
(Ga y=aeAe 
of 
D.R. asked the man what the Happy Pappys were. 
The miner shorted, and spat.on the roadside. 
For the first 
time D.R. realized he was chewing tobacco. ‘’Standing around for 
a dollar and a half an hour, mostly,” he said. “Make work for 
|, 
them has got children at home.” He spat again, then asked D.R. 
if he lived in Finley County. 
“| use to,” said D.R. 
“Who's your people?” 
D.R. said, “The Colliers. From over on Trace Fork. 
“| know Trace Fork,” said the miner. “Toward Blue Diamond, 
over yonder past Hardly. Collier, you say.” 
D.R. said, ‘My father was a Collier. My mother married a 
Davenport after he died.” 
“Well I'm glad to know you, Collier,” 
name’s Virgil Amburgey.” 
Virgil had got D.R.’s last name wrong, but D.R. didn’t feel 
like correcting him. They stopped long enough to shake hands 
with one another. Then they set out walking again, and a while 
later they came to Urge, sitting like a shadow by the road. 
24 
said the miner. “My 
Kindred 
Community 
