Shelter 
Evolution and Design in the Plant Kingdom 
Live dwellings-—how soon? Houses of living vegetable 
tissue. 
The walls take up your CO2 and return oxygen. 
They grow or diminish to accommodate your family changes. 
Add a piece of the kitchen wall to the stewpot. House as 
friend. Dweller and dwelling domesticate each other. 
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Structures. 
Engineering lately has been inspired by bionics, the 
analysis of living systems for their technological accom- 
plishments that might be borrowed by us. So far, plants 
have been overlooked. 
Hey! Plants. 
Start with this systemic lovely book and the nearest seed 
pod. 
—SB 
Evolution and Design in the Plant Kingdom 
C, L. Duddington 
: 
EVOLUTION 
and DESIGN 
1969; 258 PP: 
in the PLANT KINGDOM 
$2.95 postpaid 
paresis 
from: 
Thomas Y. Crowell Company 
201 Park Avenue S. 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Fig, 45. 
Climbing hooks of 
Ancistrocladus 
See Epilog, 
page 510 
Architecture Without Architects 
Troglodyte caverns, 40 feet high treehouses, 
sculptured Iranian sail vaults; rare photos of 
man working in conjunction with nature. A 
book for architects and builders to meditate 
upon. 
—Lloyd Kahn 
ra 
7 
iH Me au 
wa 
> 
ARCHITECTURE WITHOUT ARCHITECTS 
by Bernard Rudofsky — 
Architecture Without Architects 
Bernard Rudofsky 
1964; 160 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid 
from: 
Doubleday & Company 
Garden City, N. Y. 11531 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Natural Structure 
Shelter 
Fig. 10. 
Longitudinal section of 
part of a tracheid of the yew, 
showing the tertiary thickening bands 
that give the wood of the yew 
its great strength and elasticity 
The mechanical stresses that occur in the branch of a tree may be 
presumed to be the same as in any other cantilever. The material 
towards the top of the branch is in tension, while the material near 
the bottom is in compression. 
If it is to keep a straight course the 
wood must resist both these stresses equally. How it maintains its 
apparently predetermined course we do not know. 
If we study the wood on the lower sides of branches of coniferous 
trees, or on the upper sides of branches in broad-leaved trees, we 
find that it has a distinct structural difference from the rest of the 
wood. This wood is called ‘reaction wood’, and it differs from 
' 
normal wood both anatomically and chemically. 
In conifers, where 
it is called ‘compression wood’, it is darker than normal wood, and 
the walls of the cells are more heavily impregnated with lignin. 
The tracheids are shorter than usual, and the wood is denser. The 
secondary lignified cell wall which is laid down inside the primary 
wall consists of three layers in normal wood, but in compresion 
wood there are only two layers, the innermost layer missing. 
In branches of broad-leaved trees there is no compression wood, 
but the wood laid down on the upper side of the branch, known 
as ‘tension wood’, shows modifications in structure. The vessels 
are narrower, and the fibres have a thick inner layer——the 
gelatinous layer——which refracts light very readily and is composed 
mainly of cellulose instead of lignin. 
Recent work has indicated that the formation of reaction tissue is 
not limited to the wood, for the secondary phloem, the cortex and 
the cork cambium may also show modified growth. 
The study of reaction wood is a relatively new branch of botany, 
and much remains to be found out before we shall be able to 
claim to understand its formation fully. 
Its function, if any, in 
the life of the plant is at present uncertain, but several prominent 
workers in this field have expressed the opinion that reaction 
wood is in some way responsible for the fact that branches do 
~ 
continue growing in the direction in which they start, and do not 
change their direction of growth as a result of the stresses set up 
by their own weight. 
Water is not sucked up from the leaves, nor is it hoisted from 
below by root pressure, except, perhaps, in small plants. Our 
third possibility, that it is pumped up by some intermediate cell 
mechanism, also appears to be without foundation. One is 
tempted to say that it gets up by the grace of God, but scientists 
are chary about calling upon divine intervention in order to ex- 
plain awkward facts. We must look again at our various possibilities 
(or impossibilities) and see whether we have missed something. 
Turning once more to the theory that water is raised from above 
we can see at once that there is plenty of force available for the 
job, for transpiration sets up an osmotic gradient in the mesophyll 
of the leaf with pressures well above the ten or twelve atmospheres 
that we need for raising water even to the top of a Sequoia. The 
trouble begins when we try to see how it is applied. Suction just 
will not do, for we cannot get around the fact that the water 
barometer cannot exceed thirty-three feet. Some other phenomenon 
must be involved; something that can enable the pull in the leaves to 
reach right down into the roots and haul the water up. The answer 
to the problem seems to lie in a theory first put forward some time 
ago by Dixon and Joly, known as the ‘cohesion theory’. A solid 
Cupola of a Turkish bathhouse—a whirlpool of 
bright stars, arrested, as it were, in its movement. 
The luminous disks embedded in the dome are thick, 
lenselike glass blocks, 
Iznic, Turkey. Othmanli period. 
Many so-called primitive peoples 
deplore our habit of moving (with 
all our belongings) from one house, 
or apartment, to another. Moreover, 
the thought of having to live in rooms 
that have been inhabited by strangers 
seems to them as humiliating as buying 
second hand old clothes for one’s ward- 
robe. When they move, they prefer to 
build new houses or to take their old 
Ones along. 
Longitudinal section of part of a tracheid of the yew, showing 
the tertiary thickening bands that give the wood of the yew its 
strength and elasticity. 
sateen 
Res 
Ne
Sec 
wens 
* a 
MY 
gE 
cara
eh 
AA 
tee 
substance is held together by forces of cohesion between its 
molecules, which form a rigid crystal lattice that resists being 
’ 
broken. tna liquid the forces of cohesion do not hold so closely. 
| 
The molecules can slide about over one another but they are still 
held by cohesive forces and prevented from escaping altogether. 
7 
Only when a molecule gathers to itself sufficient kinetic energy 
t 
(energy of movement) to overcome the force of cohesion does it fly 
away completely——in other words, vapourize. 
s 
According to the Dixon cohesion theory, the water in the vessels 
forms an unbroken column from the roots up to the topmost 
leaves. The cohesive forces in this column of water resist breaking, 
so that when the osmotic gradient set up by transpiration exerts a 
pull on the top end of this column of water, the whole column 
moves upwards just as the oil dipstick of a motor car comes up 
when you pull the top end of it. Notice that we have now got 
rid of the idea of suction and the difficulty of the water barometer. 
The force that pulls the water up is an osmotic one, and it is 
transmitted down the stem by the cohesion between the water 
molecules. 
ie
Fig. 50. 
The dodder (Cuscuta europaea) 
growing on willow 
4 
By 
vas 
i 
=s 
S x< 
SS <a 
‘ 
VA 
ag ® 
Ve 
<\ h 
eee 
LAA 
