How to Work with Tools and Wood 
Famous for years when it was published by Stanley Tools, 
this comprehensive introduction is now a pocket book 
bargain. 
_SB 
[Suggested by Al Ching] 
How to Work with Tools and Wood 
Robert Campbell 
-1952, 1955, 1965; 488 pp. 
$1 50 postpaid 
from: 
Pocket Books 
A Division of Simon & Schuster, Inc. 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10020 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Use the longest screwdriver convenient for the work. More power can be 
applied to a long screwdriver than a short one, with less danger of its 
j 
slipping out of the slot. 
. 
Hold the handle firmly in the palm of the right hand with the thumb and 
forefinger grasping the handle near the ferrule. With the left hand, steady 
the tip and keep it pressed into the slot while renewing the grip on the 
ys 
handle for a new turn. 
If no hole is bored for the threaded part of the screw the wood is often 
split or the screw is twisted off. If a screw turns too hard, back it out 
and enlarge the hole. 
A little soap on the threads of the screw makes it easier to drive. 
Basic Hand Tools 
A good, basic hand too! book (like the title says) and cheap. 
Covers machinists, wood working, and metal working tools. 
Use, care, and sharpening. 
[Reviewed by Fred Richardson] 
Basic Hand Tools 
1963; 227 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
from: 
U.S. Government Printing Office 
Division of Public Documents 
Washington, D.C. 20402 
See Epilog, page 514 
—— SIGHT ALONG HERE 
FRONT VIEW 
ADJUSTING 
NUT 
A 
B 
Cc 
29.12C 
Figure 1-1-46.— Manipulation of the adjusting 
nut moves the plane iron up or down. 
11.253X 
Figure 2-6-9.—Cutting an inside hole with snips. 
Tool Use 
Industry 
; .. HOw To 
£ WORK WITH 
TOOLS AND 
Notes on Simple Hand Tools. 
In a $1 Catalog! saw someone give out that you should tighten the 
loose head of a hammer by soaking the hammer in water overnight. 
Later, someone corrected this, noting that the wood would again 
shririk, leaving the head loose and ready to fly off without warning. 
It was then suggested that the remedy was to use a 6-penny nail 
EQUAL 
(ON 
PANEL 
DOOR) 
EQUAL 
(LOCATION 
OF 
BUTT 
HINGES 
ON 
FLUSH 
DOOR) 
EQUAL 
———+>re————_ 
EQUAL 
Hand Woodworking Tools 
Best book on hand woodworking tools | have seen. Detailed 
information on care and maintenance, including sharpness, 
for each tool covered. Goes into individual tools much more 
thoroughly than more general books like the Stanley book 
Has a very clear section on transit-levels and 
builders’ levels. 
[Suggested and reviewed by Fred Richardson] 
Hand Woodworking Tools 
Leo P. McDonnell 
gape 
1962; 294 pp. 
oc. 
5.20 postpaid 
HAND 
$ 
WOODWORKING 
from: 
0 
Delmar Publishers, Inc 
50 Wolf Road 
: 
Albany, N.Y. 12205 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
DIRECTION 
OF CUTTING 
REMOVING WASTE STOCK WITH 
A ORAWSHAVE 
How to Sharpen the Cutters on an Auger Bit 
pene 
SR ASA NSO CRN RC 
TE ED 
1, Select an auger bit file. A good “second cut” half round or three cornered 
file may also be used providing its size fits the surfaces to be reduced. 
2. Rest the bit on a board with 
the screw down. Tilt the bit 
so that the cutter can be 
sharpened (see Fig. 10-14). 
FLAT SIDE OF FILE 
‘SPUR CUTTING EDGE 
BEN! 
3. Apply the flat serrated side 
5 ads 
of the file to the under side 
of the lips, the side toward 
FIG.1O-14 
SHARPENING A 
the shank, Never file the 
adh nes 
side toward the screw. 
Use forward strokes to produce the filing action. 
File well back into the throat. Do not leave the edge too blunt; the ideal to 
seek is a gradual taper from a keen edge. 
: 
4. Reposition the bit and file the opposite cutting edge in a like manner. 
Both 
edges should be filed to the same level to produce chips of equal thickness. 
HATCHET KERFS 
HATCHET HEAD 
2. When the mortise is cut out com- 
pletely with a series of chisel cuts, 
follow the cutting sequence illus- 
\ 
\~-- 
8 IES 
trated in Figs. 9-35, 9-36. 
i 
eat 
ot 
NOTE: 
Force is applied with a 
Agro 
| 
mallet for the roughing out opera- 
y——-\ 
tion. Use a chisel which is 1/8” 
\ 
less in width than the finished 
' 
' 
mortise width. Finishing to size 
! 
Bell Sateen wl Naw 
is accomplished with a series of 
FIG.9—35 
paring cuts. 
é 
FIG. 9-36 
. 
with the head cut off asa wedge. 
NOT TRUE! 
| buy most of my | 
tools used, from junk dealers. This is a good method——even with 
only limited experience with tools, you will find it easy to tell 
when most tools are merely damaged and salvable——or destroyed 
beyond reapir. And | have plenty of used hammers. Almost every 
used hammer I’ve ever seen has been ‘fixed’ with a nail driven into 
the haft, and this is one reason why the market is flooded with 
used hammers. The nail ruins the handle——ruinsit. And doesn’t 
do a good job of tightening, either. If your handle is loose, it can 
easily be fixed by soaking the hammer in Righteous Linseed Oil. 
Or you can go get a wedge, fer chrissakes. 
If you can’t get a wedge, 
make one. Just carve it out of hardwood and pound it in with a 
wooden mallet. 
: 
Axes. Keeps them sharp. Never pound on them with anything. 
Never use the poll (head) as a hammer. Ruins the axe by slowly 
mashing it out of shape. It also sometimes causes the axehead to 
crack right through. You then have a loose axehead that can fly 
off and kill. When splitting big logs, use a wedge inserted in the 
split——hammer on that. 
Chisels and-plane irons. To test for sharpness, do not use fingertips 
or try to shave your forearem. Instead, draw edge of fingernail across 
the edge of chisel lengthwise. This sensitive but neglected instrument 
will communicate with you instantly if it runs across a rough edge or 
~ 
dull spot. Try it. Needless to say, keep all edge tools sharp at all 
times. Saves time and money, prevents injuries. Naturally, you will 
have.to take some time to learn to sharpen your tools properly and 
quickly. Few people do. But if you do, you will never go back to 
dull tools again unless you feel a distinct need to punish yourself. 
Screwdrivers. For driving screws only, please. Drop this book 
right now and run down to nearest junk dealer. Purchase from him 
a large (8-12"') old screwdriver that has been mutilated by misuse, 
abuse, ignorance and stupidity. Take it home. Pass it among your 
kinsrnen while gathered in a circle. Fondle and recognize this tool. 
Burn Incense and repeat this mantra: 
This is the tool for opening paint cans. 
This is the tool for prying up planks. 
This is the tool for chopping at plaster. 
This is the tool for breaking down crates. 
Repeat until everyone realizes, that that is what the old dead screw- 
driver is for. Indeed, it no doubt came to be dead because it was 
used for just those purposes. 
If you use it in like way, you will 
contribute mightily to the longevity of many other screwdrivers. 
When buying good screwdrivers, here is the quickest way to spot 
a bad one: bad screwdrivers almost universally have skinny, grooved 
plastic handles with hard sharp edges on the grooves. You want a 
fat, generous handle at all times. Generally avoid chrome-plated 
screwdrivers too——cheap metal underneath. 
Wrenches. Why do mechanics buy expensive assortments or dozens 
of one-size-only wrenches when it would be cheaper and more 
convenient to buy one big good happy adjustable wrench? Because 
they vatues their knuckles more than gold. Also, even the best 
adjustable wrench is easily maladjusted by a stray finger touch. 
Then it slips off, buggering the work and clobbering your knuckles. 
The high initial expense will eventually pay for itself by eliminating 
costly bandages. 
Bt 
e 
Rusty tools can often be salvaged by use of Naval Jelly (trade mark). 
This is a gooey poison jelly that eats rust. Expensive, so try to get it 
by the gallon in big hardware stores for better quantity price. The 
worse the rust, the longer it takes, but it will eat almost any rust you 
feed to it. Smells, but can apparently be used in closed spaces—— 
label doesn’t say not to. Read label anyway——you’'ll want to know 
~ 
what to do if it gets somehow in your eyes and stomach. Apply it 
thick and puddly——if you let it dry on the rust it’s almost as bad 
as the rust. 
If you don’t Jet it dry on the work, you just rinse it off 
_ 
with water, presto.” 
_ 
Please wear goggles. Please wear face mask. Please wear work apron. 
Not all the time, naturally, but whenever you realize that you won’‘t 
be able to see for the wood or paint chips, breathe for the dust, or 
survive for getting clothes caught in the sawmill. Incredible how 
many people maim themselves because of-neglect in this area. Don’t 
you do it. You hurt more than just yourself, 
you also become a 
burden on your community, interrupting their work as well as 
_ your own. We are all living 2 
the edge of a precipice: 
it is the. 
responsibility of each of tis 
not to fall off——OK? 
Tape measures, yardsticks and rulers can be troublesome. 
First off, 
measure everything avery 
time, and you will significantly reduce the 
chances of reading3/8” for 3/16"'or some other such dumb-ass 
humiliating error because you will become increasingly familiar with 
your tool. Use only one measuring device on a job. They are not all 
the same, and if you construct the frame of a four-drawer dresser 
using a simple, six-inch machinist’s rule (highly recommended by 
skilled cabinetmakers), and then make-all the drawers with a Stanley 
tape measure because you lost the machinist’s rule——the drawers 
won't fit, that’s all. 
Don’t get casual with power tools——they-are as or more dangerous 
than loaded firearms.. After the electric drill——a true little beauty—— 
most-‘common is the handheld portable circular saw——usually a 
7" blade, 1/3-1/4 HP motor. Capable of slicing.lumber all day, 
capable of wreaking incredible and irrevocable carnage in a second 
of careless use. Basically a primitive tool, please remember that all 
of the sophistication of modern medicine can do little for power 
saw wounds. except to stop the bleeding. With all power tools, great 
awareness is needed. You MUST be able to see, simultaneously and 
at all times, BOTH of your hands, the business end of the tool, the 
switch and the power cord, and people who may blunder into your 
way. A lot to cope with; extreme care and concentration 
recommended. ° 
Z 
5 
Screws go easily into even hardwoods if 1) you ream outa pilot 
hole with a drill bit of correct size or, preferably, a screw-mate (a 
_ 
screw-shaped drill bit) and 2) scrape a little soap or candle wax 
onto the thread of the screw. 
Handsaws. Buy the best you can get. Cheap ones are shit——although 
they may not smell, they are stinkers to work with. Cheap or dull 
saws will exhaust you, and fast. 
Glue is handy and effective if you read the directions. Gluing with- 
out applying pressure by clamps or even 3 dozen phone books is a 
waste of time and materials. 
Cultivate old heads. Use modern technology too, but not when old 
methods are simpler, cheaper, better, stronger. Old heads——pipe 
fitters, plumbers, carpenters and the like——have often learned many 
things handed down to them, or discovered by themselves when they 
had to make do on short notice and shorter cash. (Old heads with 
Depression experience and prepowertool experience, for example, 
are storehouses of beloved information.) Many of these old craftsmen 
have no one in their families who want to know about old outmoded 
crap like helping onesself, and will often willingly impart knowledge 
to you. Seek them out——you will do yourself——and them——a great 
service by it. Most of what | know of tools was taught to me by a 
grand old head, George Kelm, who took me into his workshop and 
helped me learn things that have since provided endless hours of 
usefulness and pleasure. 
Bill Marsano 
a 
py 
adpat
aye
aeS
e
- 
‘ sal
ete 
eea
rar
hy 
ok 
ota)
le
pa 
Pani
s 
