~The Massage Book 
For home, not hospitals (1 mean hospitals too if they can 
afford to get personal). For splendor in the grass. A friendly, 
exact book from a professional, with all the surrounding 
information as well as the warm heart of the subject. You 
don’t know what a good massage means until you've had 
one, and then you want to give one. 
—SB 
The Massage Book 
George Downing. 
1971; 200 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
THE 
MASSAGE 
je 
from: 
Bookworks 
Book 
c/o Random House 
Westminster, Md. 21157 
or WHOLE EARTH 
CATALOG 
Sauna 
The only book available on Saunas: what they are, their 
history, how to use and enjoy, and how to build one. 
Although the construction details are not extensive, there 
is a list of about 20 Sauna manufacturers who will send you 
free construction plans, in hopes that you‘ll buy a heating 
device from them. 
—Lloyd Kahn 
[Suggested by Stan Gould] 
Sauna: The Finnish Bath 
Viherjuuri 
1965: 87pp 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
Stephen Greene Press 
120 Main Street 
Brattleboro, Vt. 05301 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The simplest form of the family sauna is a one-room hut built of 
logs, with a large rudimentary stove upon which rocks are placed... 
The heat of the sauna is non-radiant: that is, it does not radiate 
directly toward the bather.but rather is absorbed by the stones which 
emit the heat into the air. The indirect heat is gentle and constant . .... 
ideal temperature 
The stones are heated until they become red hot... 
190-200 degrees . 
. 
. water is thrown on the stones but the air 
remains dry because moisture is instantly absorbed by the wooden 
walls. 
. 
. traditional sauna includes beating with leafy birth branches, 
washing, and a plunge in a nearby lake or roll in the snow outside. 
Then follows a necessary rest while the body cools down completely. 
BUILDING A FINNISH SAUNA 
\ 
A practical arrangement: 1) small stools used as steps; 2) steps; 
3) rail for propping up feet; 4) platform; 5) headrest. 
Interior walls and ceiling are often built of kiln-dried, unfinished 
redwood, which does not shrink, does not warp, and is a poor heat 
conductor. Another excellent wood is cedar, which not only 
shares redwood’s good properties but also emits a pleasant odor and 
does not stain with moisture. 
j 
ee. 
Nailing should be done with hot-dipped galvanized nails to avoid 
stains from rust; nails should be counter-sunk whenever it is 
likely that a bather will touch them in the hot room. Tongue-in- 
groove paneling disposes of this problem in wall construction; 
benches can be screwed from below. 
ie, 
The foot is a ‘’map”’ of the entire body. No muscle, no gland, no 
organ whether internal or external, is without a set of nerves whose 
opposite ends are anchored in the foot. And what does this mean? 
Simply that when we massage the foot we stimulate and affect all 
the rest of the body as well! So critical, in fact, are these groups of 
nervous correspondences between the foot and everything else in 
the body, that an important means of medical diagnosis and 
healing through foot massage, commonly called ’’zone therapy” by 
practitioners, has been built entirely upon it. | will have more to 
say about zone therapy ina 
later section. Enough for now that 
you be aware that while massaging the foot you are giving an extra 
“shadow massage” to the rest of the body as well. So do good 
work— a little here goes a long way: 
The strokes for the foot are much like those for the hand. 
|. First make a fist with your right hand. Steady the foot with 
your left hand, and with the knuckles of your right hand massage 
the sole. Move your knuckles in small circles; press hard. Be 
sure to cover the entire sole, including the bottom of the heel. 
1. Next go over the same area with the thumbs of both hands. 
Hold 
the foot in place with your fingers and work both thumbs at once in 
small circles. Again cover the entire sole. Go slow. Be thorough. 
Remember those thousands of nerves connecting the foot with the 
rest of the body. 
Ill. Next work the top of the foot, using your thumbs in the same 
way. Again be vigorous and be thorough; don’t let any tiny patches 
escape unmassaged. When you reach the lower half of the foot— 
in 
other words when you near the ankle and the heel— you will find 
it easier to use the tips of your fingers. Circle the ankle bone itself— 
the round bony protruberance about the width of a half dollar on 
either side of the ankle— several times with your finger tips, doing 
both sides at once. 
1V. When you finally reach the lower end of the heel, gently lift 
the foot from beneath the ankle with the left hand and work the 
bottommost edge of the heel with the tips of the finger and thumb 
of the right hand. Press hard. 
V. Next look at the top of your friend’s foot and find, just as you 
did for the hand, the long thin tendons running fromthe base of 
the ankle to each toe. Run the tip of your thumb, pressing firmly, 
down each of the valleys that lie in between these tendons. Start 
at the base of the ankle and end at the tiny flap of skin between the 
toes. As for the hand, you may, if you wish, gently squeeze this 
flap of skin by pressing the tip of your forefinger against its under- 
side as your thumb passes over its top. Do each valley one time. 
Vi. Now the toes themselves. With your left hand hold the foot 
steady; with the thumb and forefinger of your right hand grasp the 
base of the big toe.. Then gently pull, twisti~g from side to side 
in a corkscrew motion, until your thumb and forefinger slide off 
the tip of the toe. Do each toe in turn. 
VII. Finish the foot just as you did the hand. Clasp the foot 
between your hands, one palm along the sole and the other along 
the length of the top, and for a moment allow yourself to be still. 
Center yourself and become aware of your breathing. Try by 
breathing into your hands to allow the energy circulating in your 
own body to mingle with that of your friend’s. 
Kama Sutra Oil 
This material lubricates, warms, 
feels good, smells good, and 
tastes good. It’s for making 
love with. 
_SB 
Kama Sutra Oil 
4 oz. bottle 
$4.25 postpaid 
from: 
Kama Sutra Oil 
1041 N. McCadden Place 
Los Angeles, CA..90038 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
THE SEARCH IMAGINED 
As D.R. pushed through the heavy doors of the terminal he 
made up a little drama in his mind about how it would be if 
Estelle was not there waiting for him. He saw himself entering the 
big waiting room and first looking toward the seats they had 
occupied that morning. 
Estelle was not there. The only person 
in that whole row of seats was a woman with two children, one 
of them a baby asleep in her lap. D.R. walked by her to the seats 
they had sat in and paced up and down in front of them, looking 
at them thinking: 
Estelle sat here, and | sat there. He looked 
at the seats, and all around the big room for some sign of Estelle. 
He considered asking the woman with the children if she had seen 
a girl in jeans and a Mexican shirt, but she looked as if she didn’t 
want to be disturbed. 
Her baby was asleep, and she was half asleep 
herself. 
For a second in his fantasy the woman with the children 
turned into Estelle. She didn’t stay Estelle very long but for a 
moment it was very convincing. She had Estelle’s dark, round 
eyes and her skin was dark and mellow like Estelle’s. She looked 
up at D.R. once, sort of blankly, perhaps wearily. Then she was 
no longer Estelle, which was good because if she had stayed 
Estelle the fantasy would have ended without the kind of freak- 
out D.R. wanted to go through over his lost love. He glanced 
at the half-asleep mother again, then walked away quickly to 
look for Estelle in the coffee shop. 
Estelle was not in the coffee shop. 
* She was not at the ticket counter. 
She was not at the magazine stand, or over by the lockers, 
nor was she outside in the loading zones, leaning against a post. 
The whole big sleepy bus station yawned Estelle’s not being there 
and closed its eyes again. D.R. tried to wake it up. He tried to 
force its eyelids open with sticks, and when it yawned.he tried 
to stir it by pouring tar into its mouth. But the mouth slammed 
shut and swallowed everything that had ever happened until that 
moment. The hours D.R. and Estelle had been together in that 
bus station slipped down its long esophagus into subterranean 
bowels, and no amount of screaming would bring it back again. 
D.R.. was muttering little fretful cries by the time he went into 
the phone booth Estelle had occupied. 
First he went into his own 
booth, then into her’s. But Estelle was not there. He tried calling 
her, he memorized the number, went back to his booth and dialed. 
But Estelle didn’t answer, and D.R. sat there on the stool muttering 
little fretful cries. He thought about calling the Anaheim Flash to 
tell him Estelle was gone, but somehow he didn‘t have the energy. 
But then suddenly he did have the energy, and he put in a dime and 
told the operator to get him the Anaheim Flash in Anaheim, Cali- 
fornia. The operator got the Flash’s number, but a strange woman 
answered. The Flash was out. D.R. said it was an emergency. 
The woman asked if she could take a message. No, said D.R. 
There wasn’t any message. 
But when the woman started to hang 
up he shouted Wait! 
Wait! 
Yes, there isa message. 
Tell him 
Estelle’s gone. Tell him to find her and. take care of her and tell 
me where she is. The woman said she would give the message to 
the Flash. D.R. said thank you and hung up, then sat there 
muttering Ijttle fretful cries as he tried to imagine where oh where 
in the whole wide world Estelle might have gone away to. 
The only place left to check out was the ladies restroom, and 
D.R. strolled around to it, and began pacing back and forth out- 
side the door. As women went in and out he tried peering through 
the door but he couldn't see very much, and the women looked at 
him suspiciously. Then he thought of a scheme. He.watched four 
women go in, then waited until they came out again. One, two, 
three, four. Obligingly they came out as they went in, one behind 
the other, and when number four was out D.R. made his move. 
He 
threw open the dodr and yelled Estelle! 
He yelled it again, Estelle! 
Estelle! as he ran the length of the ladies room, stooping to peer 
under the stalls. But Estelle wasn’t there, and the only thing D.R. 
could think to do was go in the coffee shop, order a Coke, play a 
sad hillbilly song on the jukebox and feel his heart break into 
pieces. 
, 
_ 
Massage 
Community 
* 
