/ 
! ahd Man’s Fate 
Okfi ¢ introduction to theoretical and applied evolution. 
Hardin is further than anyone in blending the insights of 
evolution and cybernetics into what may be an embryonic 
science of general development. 
Still it’s a completely 
earthly book. 
The specific history of Darwin and his 
idea. 
The specific application of evolutionary under- 
standing to human survival now. 
—SB 
* 
Nature and Man’s Fate 
Nature a 
Garrett Hardin 
and 
{ 
1959; 320 pp. 
Man's Fate 
$1.25 postpaid 
from: 
The New American Library, Inc. 
| 
1301 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, N. Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
So we see that the concept of progress, for all its historical importance 
in sheltering the idea of evolution, is not easily applicable to facts 
of biology. 
All men are, by nature, unequal——this is the censored truth of our 
century. We are as afraid of the consequences of admitting this 
truth as the Victorians were of the consequences of admitting that 
men are animals. Yet surely history will ultimately show that, in 
both instances, the consequences are good and compatible with 
human decency. 
As early as 1920, the philosopher, Bertrand Russell, spelled out 
the nightmare qualities of the Russian dream in terms that he never 
needed to revise in the light of later facts. For his pains and his 
honesty Russell was quietly ousted from his position as the phil- 
osophic spokesman of the liberal elements. 
(Since he was patently 
unfit to speak for the conservatives either, he was henceforth a 
philosophic man without a party. This position may not be the most 
comfortable of all positions, but for a living philosopher it has its 
advantages.) 
As a species becomes increasingly “successful,” its struggle for 
existence ceases to be one of struggle with the physical environment 
or with other species and comes to be almost exclusively competition 
with its own kind. We call that species most successful that has 
made its awn kind its worst enemy. Man enjoys this kind of success. 
It is one of the few rules of evolution that extreme specialization 
results in eventual extinction. Environmental changes are inevitable, 
and the specialist-species is too strongly committed to one way of 
life to be able rapidly enough to “back up” genetically and take off 
in another “‘direction.’” 
All the evidence of comparative morphology 
and paleontology, fragmentary though it is, indicates that each great 
new group of organisms arises from very unspecialized species of 
the group “‘below” it, not from the conspicuously specialized ones. 
fad MUTATION 
GAUSSIAN 
FREQUENCY 
DISTRIBUTION 
FREQUENCY 
(WUMBERS 
OF 
(NDIVIDUMS) 
; MEAN] 
VALUE OF 
MEASURABLE 
VARIABLE 
Fig. 7. The 
effects 
of mutation 
and 
selection 
on 
a Gaussian \ 
(“normal”) 
distribution 
curve. 
The Step to Man 
I'll be damned. 
| thought this was another yessir-things-are- 
changing technological social treatise thing. No such. 
It’s 
a manual. of strategies for changing the world, if you have a 
mind to do that. Not heavy stuff about what is terrible 
or what should happen, but how to remake life and stay 
alive in the process. 
Strategies like multiple working 
hypotheses so you don’t get infatuated with your first idea. 
Like seed operations where one phone call makes the whole 
thing happen. 
Like self-stabilizing provisions so a process 
is-safe from its own too-quick successes. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Steve Baer] 
from: 
The Step 
to Man 
John Wiley and Sons Publishing Co. 
John R. 
Platt 
1 Wiley Drive 
1966; 216 pp. 
Somerset, N. J. 08873 
Western Distribution: 
1530 South Redwood Road 
Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 
$7.50 postpaid 
Evolution 
Whole Systems 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
se00 
Ge 
0cec 
oes 
eeeuensecascevsucooesenaseseD 
It is not easy to define “play” precisely, but whatever it is, it is 
something that is in some sense non-competitive, non-rational, 
non-economic. 
It is also productive of novelty in viewpoints, 
opening a path to new ways of doing things that would often 
never be discovered it only direct, completely rational, wholly 
efficient approaches were employed. Play, for many men, is by 
no means confined to childhood; it extends.into the adult state, 
only changing its form. Freud has said, ‘‘The child has toys; the 
mature man has art and science.” Out of the play called science 
——which is possible only to a society rich enough to suspend 
partially the laws of competition——out of the economically non- 
competitive intellectual play called science there comes, in fact, 
a competitive weapon of the most powerful sort, technology. 
Competition has its own dialectic. 
In order to make a perfect and beautiful machine, it ts not requisite 
to know how to make it. Quite so. 
... 10 Darwinians, Design emerges from blind Waste. ."’To be an 
Error and to be cast out is a part of God's Design,” said William 
Blake. 
XS carn 
2 
cterotricha 
NG 
7 (ch 
h 
geprentrionalis/ [|= 
AD IAS 
1¥Fremontii 
remamecrs 
platy Hossa B 
a 
Honduleral 
, J: Jones 
at 
PYillardiotdas 6 
Munzii 
thizracivides 
Ieucopapps 
3 
oe 
: 
A 
panic 
subspicata /< 
ap NY 
oS! 
Conny a 
< 
citrigracilis h, adiata 
1p) 
VEN citriodora >< 
Fig. 12. Evolution, 
as it has probably occurred 
in a group of 
piants: showing now “nature is too disorderly” for those 
who seek to find clean-cut “phylogenetic trees” and uni- 
directional evolution everywhere. (From Clausen, Stages 
in the Evolution 
of Plant Species, 
Cornell 
University 
Press, Ithaca, N. Y.; 1951. By permission.) 
The Competitive Exclusion Principle. No two organisms that compete 
in every activity can coexist indefinitely in the same environment. To 
coexist in time, organisms that are potentially completely competitive 
must be geographically isolated from each other. Otherwise, the one 
that is the less efficient yields to the more efficient, no matter how 
slight the difference. When two competing organisms coexist in the 
same geographical region, close examination always shows that they 
are not complete competitors, that one of them draws on a resource 
of the environment that is not available to the other. The corollary 
of the principle is that where there is no geographical isolation of 
genetically and reproductively isolated populations, there must be 
as many ecological niches as there are populations. The necessary 
condition for geographical coexistence is ecological specialization. 
And concepts themselves occur in various grades of generality, 
forming a hierarchal complex that has not yet been explicitly 
described. Language is a wondrously subtle and complicated 
tool; by far the greater part of it is to be found only in mathe- 
matics. That which most men call “language” is only a small 
part of man’s concept-handling machinery, scarcely the ABC’s 
of it. 
For more details on organic evolution, see Ernst Mayr’s recent 
classic Animal Species and Evolution (1963; 797 pp. $11.95 
postpaid from Harvard University Press, 79 Garden Street, 
Cambridge, Mass. 02138). The promising, if heretical, hypo- 
thesis that evolution may be directly affected by changes 
within the cells is presented in Lancelot Law Whyte’s /nternal 
Factors in Evolution (1965; 120 pp. $4.00 postpaid from 
George Braziller, Inc., 215 Park Avenue South, New York, 
N. Y. 10003). For a non-too-satisfactory but still tantalizing 
look into cultural evolution, see Sahlins and Service, Evolution 
and Culture (1960; 131 pp. $3.95 postpaid from The University 
of yee 
Press, 615 East University, Ann Arbor, Michigan 
48106). 
Beware of the man of one method or one instrument, either 
experimental or theoretical. He tends to become method- 
oriented rather than problem-oriented. The method-oriented 
man is shackled; the problem-oriented man is at least reaching 
freely toward what is most important. Strong inference 
redirects a man to problem-orientation, but it requires him 
to bewilling repeatedly to put aside his last methods and teach 
himself new ones. 
e 
Among the impotence principles of socio-biology is surely this:. 
competition is inescapable. That species which has succeeded in 
eliminating all other species as competitors, ends by becoming 
its own competitor. The world, in spite of comic-strip science, 
is 
alimited one. Man, freed of the population-controlling factors 
of predators and disease organisms, must——willy-nilly, like it 
or not——control his own numbers by competition with his own 
kind. By taking thought he can elect the kind of competition 
he employs; but he cannot escape all kinds., This is not to imply 
that the election is a trivial matter. 
a 
To the biologist it is clear that the best chances for man’s long- 
time survival depend on the fragmentation of the species into 
well-separated populations. But it would be foothardy to say 
what form the separation should take. It might be a matter of 
nations, as we know them; or some sort of caste system, that would 
permit genetic isolation with geographic unity; or——far more 
likely——some new kind of communities that are neither nation 
nor caste nor anything that has yet been conceived of. 
e 
The crowd-diseases——smallpox, cholera, typhoid, plague, etc.—— 
= 
are, by the ecologist, labeled ‘‘density-dependent factors,’ whose 
effectiveness in reducing population isa power function of the 
density of the population. No growth of population could get 
out of hand as long as the crowd-diseases were unconquered, which 
means that man did not have to sit in judgment on man, to decide 
who should havea cover at Nature’s feast and who should not. 
With the development of bacteriological medicine, ail this has been. 
changed. Now, the feedback control is man himself. 
of 
Darwin’s.life is symbolic. His Autobiography clearly and unconsciously 
reveals two elements that are needed to produce any creative genius: 
irresponsibility and alienation. ... 
= 
He who is to see what other men have not seen must, in a real sense, | 
become alienated from the crowd. The manner in which this alienation 
occurs is subject to an infinity of permutations. 
... 
The wealthy eccentric is a nearly extinct dodo. The man of wealth 
is now an other-directed man. He may become a lawyer or a doctor. 
But not a scientist. He is too much a part of the world to achieve 
the alienation required to be creative. (What millionaire today would 
have the-nerve to do what Darwin did——retire to a “‘non-productive”’ 
life in the country to think?) 
...We can hardly expect a committee to acquiesce in the dethronement 
of tradition. Only an individual can do that, an individual 
who is not 
responsible to the mob. Now that the truly independent man of 
wealth has disappeared, now that the independence of the academic 
man is fast disappearing, where are we to find the conditions of 
partial alienation and irresponsibility needed for the highest creativity? 
Fig. 25. A large population, which is very sensitive to selection 
Pressure, is narrowly confined to an adaptive peak (Mount 
Tory). A species broken up into many separate small 
breeding populations is much less responsive to selection 
Pressures; 
its populations will wander widely from their 
adaptive peak (Mount Risky)—some to perish, some, per- 
haps, to find the way to new adaptive peaks like Mount 
Opportunity. As before, the water represents the threaten- 
ing natural selection. 
— 
In order to carry out any great project, the future good of the group 
must be anticipated and turned into present and individual good, 
into a reward for every step that is taken in the right direction. 
| am beginning to believe that in any social endeavor, it is the 
analysis of chain-reacting social processes that will enable us to 
choose the best course and will indicate the most effective ways 
for our intelligence to multiply its feeble energies. The future 
is waiting to respond to a touch, if it is the right touch. It is 
ingenuity we need, not lamentations. The world’s future becomes 
- 
almost plastic in the light of these possibilities. 
We begin to realize that our brains are the most complex and 
self-determining things in the known universe. After all the 
measurements of atoms and galaxies are folded into laws in some 
corner of our networks, there will still be universes of interrelation- 
ships in the rest of our networks to be discovered. 
If this property 
of complexity could somehow be transformed into visible 
brightness so that it would stand forth more clearly 
to our senses, 
the biological world would become a walking field of light 
compared to the physical world. The sun with its great eruptions 
~ 
would fade to a pale simplicity compared to a rosebush. An 
earthworm would be a beacon, a dog would be a city of light, 
and human beings would stand out like blazing suns of complexity, 
flashing bursts of meaning to each other through the dull night 
of the physical world between. We would hurt each other's 
eyes. Look at the haloed heads of your rare and complex 
companions. 
Is it not so? 
