_ Piaget for Teachers 
This is a super how-to-do-it book —— Piaget’s thinking made 
concrete and applicable to the teaching of children. 
The 
theory is rich, and clearly presented, and involves mainly a 
concept of intelligence far more integrated, exciting, and 
beautiful than what we’re used to. About half the book is 
a presentation of scores of exercises, games, and ideas for 
stimulating the development of real intelligence in children. 
Furth appears to have a soft heart and doesn’t get strident 
about how schools are fucking it up now; he just says how 
education could be done a fot better. | bet he’s right. 
[Reviewed by Diana Shugart. 
Suggested by Martha LaVoie] 
Piaget for Teachers 
Hans G. Furth 
1970; 163 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
Prentice-Hall, Inc. 
Englewood Cliffs, N.J. 07632 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
See Epilog, pages 720-721 
A school that in the earliest grades focuses primarily on reading 
cannot also focus on thinking. 
It must choose to foster one or the 
other. 
Historically, it has chosen reading. Undoubtedly, it once 
could be tacitly assumed that a child’s thinking had developed 
adequately before he entered school and continued to do so outside 
of school. These assumptions were perhaps not altogether ill- 
founded. Schooling in the past was the prerogative of a special class 
and only gradually broadened its base to include a school-minded 
and school-ambitious citizenship within a relatively stable social and 
physical environment that was generally conducive to spontaneous 
intellectual growth. But today these assumptions are largely irrele- 
vant for a large segment of our population. 
.. 
/ask a seven-year-old child to draw you a bottle half-filled with 
water. When he has done this, draw the bottle—without water—in a 
tilted position and ask him to add the water level. Or take a match, 
put it half over the edge of a table, and slightly tap the overhanging 
part. 
Let a nine-year-old child observe what happens. Give hima 
paper on which is drawn the table and the overhanging match with 
the head of the match marked in solid black. Tell him to draw the 
successive positions of the match as it flips over and finally falls on 
the floor. Look at the child’s drawings of the water level or of the 
positions which a falling match is supposed to take. 
| do not see 
how any person can observe these kinds of behavior samples and 
still maintain that knowing is a passive copy of “objective” facts. 
We know that educators in a long tradition have put primary 
stress on such factors as personal acceptance, and | would be the 
last to belittle them. However, | venture to suggest that sensitivity 
to the “hidden” environment is not enough for a successful school. 
“Love is not enough” for the hungry child; he needs wholesome 
food on the table. Educational theories have been on a perilous 
swing from an extreme that stressed discipline and learning to 
, 
another that focused on emotional and social adjustment. 
| suggest 
that you cannot have one without the other. A viable theory of the 
development of knowing will also be a viable theory of emotional 
and social development. A school system whose goal is geared 
toward healthy intellectual growth cannot but be conducive to 
healthy emotional and social growth. 
For this reason alone, my 
professional advice on problems of educational adjustment or 
motivation would be first to check the objective program that is 
offered to the child. 
If this program is psychologically or socially 
unsuitable to a child’s developing intelligence, we should be slow in 
looking for secondary, indirect causes. 
These few observations merely sketch ideas on the vast topic of 
social thinking. All | want to show you is the close organic connec- 
tion between intelligence and social reality. 
If the school is to be 
for real, intellectual food must be for real, too. 
... 
Teaching As a Subversive Activity 
You may have noticed that schools are society's goat just 
now, and the blame machine revs on and on. 
The authors of 
this handy de-crisis book take a nice clean no-blame 
revolutionary approach to things: what works this minute 
and doesn’t work this minute. 
In their experience (high- 
school), instruction in authoritative subject matter doesn’t 
work very well. What does work is an experience-based 
inquiry approach to learning to learn and learning to 
selectively un-learn: 
i.e. basic survival strategy in an 
environment of change. What's nice is they aren't just 
threatening: they have gathered and published a strong 
collection of technique. —SB 
Teaching as a Subversive Activity 
~ 
Neil Postman and Charles Weingartner 
1969; 219 pp. 
$2.25 postpaid 
from: 
Delta Books 
750 Third Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10017 
Teaching as a 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Subversive Activity 
A nohatds-harred assault te autdated 
teachings muethnds~ wath dramatic and 
practical proposals on how education cart 
be made relevant t today’s world 
See Epitog, pages 720-721 
NEAL PUSTMAN & CHARLES WEINGARTNER 
: 
The new education, in sum, is new because it consists of having 
students use the concepts most appropriate to the world in which 
we all must live. All-of these concepts constitute the dynamics 
of the questing-questioning, meaning-making process that can 
be called “learning how to learn’’. This comprises a posture of 
stability from which: to deal fruitfully with change. The purpose 
is to help all students develop built-in, shockproof crap detectors 
as basic equipment in their survival kits. 
® 
The teacher rarely tells students what he thinks they ought to know. 
His basic mode of discourse with students is questioning. 
Generally, he does not accept a single statement as an answer to a 
question. 
He encourages student-student interaction as opposed to student- 
teacher interaction. 
And. generally he avoids acting as a mediator or 
judge of the quality of ideas expressed. 
He rarely summarizes the positions taken by students on the learnings 
that occur. 
: 
His lessons develop from the response of students and not from a 
previously determined “logical” structure. 
Generally, each of his lessons poses a problem for students. 
He measures his success in terms of behavioral changes in students. 
@ 
PART 1 
The basic élements 
(Ex.) 
S <> a 
H —-—?., 
if —r 
+? 
i. 9 
QO 9 
(Ex.) H Sets 
e CS 
(Example) 
heey 
How Children Learn 
See Epiiog, page 720 “Escape from Childhood” 
This rambling series of innocent everyday happenings to'a 
bevy of pre schoolers is described, digested, and given 
educational depth by an extremely observant and articulate 
educator, Mr. Holt. 
The great strength of his book is its 
readibility. His use of preschooler /earning situations is 
ingenious, since it is a common reference point to all 
teachers and parents. Anyone who doesn’t see toddlers in a 
different light after reading this book probably ought to 
write a book himself. 
[Reviewed by Carol Guyton Goodell] 
How Children Learn 
John Holt 
1967, 70; 156 pp. 
$.95 postpaid 
from: 
Dell Publishing Company 
750 Third Avenue 
New York, New York 10017 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
4 Téaching 
Learning 
Why does a baby begin to make sounds in the first place? Is it 
instinctive, like crying? It seems not to be.*A puppy raised 
apart from other dogs will know how to bark when he gets 
old enough. But the few children we know of who grew up without 
human contact, grew up almost wholly mute. Babies in under- 
staffed foundling hospitals, who see very little of older people, are 
said, except for crying, to be almost silent. Apparently it is from 
hearing people speak around them that babies get the idea of 
“speaking.’’ When they make their first sounds, are they imitating 
the sounds they hear around them? Or are they inventing, 
so to speak, from scratch? Perhaps at first they mostly invent, 
and imitate more later. 
We must recognize that there are some teachers who like being 
\eader-draggers.’’ They like to feel that they are at every moment in 
control, not only of the child’s body, but also of his mind. They 
like to feel themselves the source and the sole source of all knowledge, 
wisdom, and learning in the classroom. Some such teachers are 
moved by a love of power, of which the classroom gives them plenty; 
others, by a deep and sometimes desperate need to feel useful, 
necessary, and even indispensable to their students. Both kinds 
are strongly threatened by any suggestion that children can 
and should learn on-their own. Many other teachers would like 
to give their students more independence and self-direction, but 
are held back by a fear of the standardized tests by which their 
pupils, and they themselves, will be judged. In any school whose 
main business is preparing children to get high scores on achievement 
tests, regents’ exams, merit scholarship exams, college boards, and the 
like, we are not likely to see much open-ended, independent student 
work. It must be said in fairness, too, that so far not many of the 
curriculum reformers and educational revolutionaries have shown 
much interest in it either. They tend to be so sure that-the path 
they have marked out for their students is the best of all possible 
paths, that their main concern is how to lead or drag them down 
it as fast as possible. 
e 
~ 
port any of these contentions. On the contrary, there is massive 
trying his best to do them right. 
er? 
ale 
ays 
‘ 
“ 
7 
What we confront, at this juncture, is a most difficult problem in 
education: 
helping students to unlearn much of what they “know.” 
Josh Billings said it almost a century ago: ‘’The'trouble ain't that 
people are ignorant; it’s that they ‘know’ so much that ain’t so.” 
What are some of the things these students know that “ain't so?” 
Well, for example, they “know” that 1) the more ‘content’ a person 
“knows,” the better teacher he is; 2) that “content” is best “imparted” 
via a “course of study’’; 3) that “content” is best kept ‘“‘pure” by 
departmentalizing instruction; 4) that ‘‘content” or ‘’subject matter” 
has a “logical structure’ or ‘logical sequence’ that dictates how the 
“content” should be “imparted”; 5) that bigger schools are better 
than smaller schools; 6) that smaller classes are better than bigger 
classes; 7) that ‘homogeneous grouping’ (with students ‘‘grouped” 
on the basis of some real or fancied similarity) makes the learning 
of subjects more efficient; 8) that classes must be held for ‘periods’ 
of about an hour in length, five days a week, for about 15 weeks in 
order for.a ‘’course” in a “’subject’’ to happen. 
It comes as a shock to the students that there is no evidence to sup- 
evidence to confute them. 
It takes some doing, however, 
to help 
students to recognize the fact that most of their deeply internalized 
assumptions about “education” are based on misinformation rather 
than information 
A 
The instructor brought to class a black attaché case. He told the 
students that inside the case there was a small computer which was 
capable of producing the answer to any question anyone asked. 
‘What auestions,’ he asked, ‘do you want it to answer?’ 
Teacher 
Teacher is as unphoney, warm, and appealing as the grubby, 
tear streaked face of a child, it is also an important technical 
notebook for educators. Miss Ashton-Warner’s organic 
approach to reading and writing is a detailed enough account 
to be explored further by teachers anywhere. It is of especial 
value to teachers working with primary children. Students 
with a cultural or language barrier, and adult i/literates. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Caro! Guyton Goodel!/] 
Teacher 
Sylvia Ashton-Warner 
1963; 224 pp. 
$1 25 postpaid 
from: 
Bantam Books, Inc. 
666 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
ee
re
eee 
, Se
n
Noise, noise, noise, yes. But if you don’t like noise, don’t be a 
teacher. 
lena
> 
SoM. 
But there are two kinds of order, and which is the one we wish for? 
Is it the conscious order that ends up as respectability? Or is it the 
unconscious order that looks like chaos on the top? There is a separ- 
ate world on each side of this question mark. 
Organic reading is not new. The Egyptian hieroglyphics were one- 
word sentences. 
Helen Keller’s first word, ‘water,’ was a one-word 
book. Tolstoy found his way to it in his peasant school, while, out 
in the field of UNESCO today, it is used automatically as the only 
reasonable way of introducing reading to primitive people: ina 
famine area the teachers wouldn't think of beginning with any words 
other than ‘crop,’ ‘soil,’ ‘hunger,’ ‘manure,’ and the like. 
“is 
e 
Backward readers have a private Key Vocabulary which once found 
launches them into reading. 
a
ee:
The power content of a word can be determined better from a 
~ 
backward reader than from an average reader. 
Explanations. We teachers—perhaps all human beings—are in the 
grip of an astonishing delusion. We think that we can take a picture, 
— 
a structure, a working model of something, constructed in ourminds 
out of long experience and familiarity, and by turning that model 
Rot 
into a string of words, transplant it whole into the mind of someone 
hil 
else. Perhaps once in a thousand times, when the explanation is 
extraordinarily good, and the listener extraordinarily experienced 
© 
and skillful at turning word strings into non-verbal reality, 
; 
and when explainer and listener share in common many of the 
~ 
; 
experiences being talked about, the process may work, andsome 
real meaning may be communicated. Most of the time, explaining 
} 
does not increase understanding, and may even lessen it. 
} 
¢ 
e 
It is a remarkable business. We are so used to talking that we 
forget that it takes a very subtle and complicated coordination of 
lips, tongue, teeth, palate, jaws, cheeks, voice, and breath. Simply 
an 
|| 
as a muscular skill it is by far the most complicated and difficult 
| 
that most of us ever learn, at least as difficult as the skill required 
4 
to master a serious musical instrument. We realize how difficult 
} 
speech is only when we first try to make the sounds of a language 
>! 
very different from our own: Suddenly we find that our mouths 
| 
and tongues won't do what we want. Yet every child learns to 
{ 
make the sounds of his own language. If he lives where more than 
| 
one language is spoken, he makes the sounds of them all. How does 
he do it? His coordination is poor to start with; how does he manage 
to do what many adults find so difficult? 
The answer seems to be by patient and persistent experiment; by 
trying many thousands of times to make sounds, syllables, and 
words; by comparing his own sounds to the sounds made by people 
around him; and by gradually bringing his own sounds closer to 
the others, above all, by being willing to do things wrong even while 
