How To Become a Non-Profit Tax-Exempt 
_ Corporation, and Why, and Why Not 
It’s not as hard as you think. 
| A lot of people come to Portola looking for shelter here for 
| their educational or other do-good project. Mostly we advise 
| them to start their own scene. 
We asked the Law Commune in Menlo Park to write up the 
| basic information, which follows. 
. 
A>) 
i SOME PRELIMINARY QUESTONS AND ANSWERS 
ABOUT NONPROFIT CORPORATIONS* 
| What is a nonpropit corporation? 
A corporation is a separate legal entity which the law allows to be 
created for the purpose of doing business. In the eyes of the law, a 
corporation is a separate ‘‘person’’ who has its own debts, owns its 
property, and pays its own taxes, and who, unless dissolved by its 
owners, lives forever. Nonprofit means that none of the owners, or 
“members’’ receive any financial gain or profit from the work being 
carried on by the corporation. This does not mean that officers and 
employees of the corporation do not receive salaries, it means that 
a nonprofit corporation does not have “‘investors’”’ who in the case 
| of a regular corporation would buy stocks or bonds in the corpor- 
| 
ation and receive a dividend or some other financial return on their 
| 
investment. Instead of selling stock to stockholders, who are the 
“owners” of a regular corporation, 
a nonprofit corporation sells or 
gives ‘‘memberships’’ to members. These members do not receive 
| 
- dividends but they do perform the acts of ownership normally 
carried out by the stockholders, such as electing the board of 
directors. The Board of Directors have the duty of watching over the 
business of the corporation, making the major decisions, and of hiring 
the officers of the corporation suchas the president, general manager, 
and executive secretary who carry out the day-to-day business of the 
corporation. 
What are the advantages of forming a nonprofit corporation? 
The advantages of operating through a corporate structure are all 
‘| based on the concept of the corporation’s being aseparate- person. 
| 
As a separate person the corporation remains no matter what 
‘| 
individuals come and go. Most important, the corporation's 
| liabilities are separate from those of its owners or employees. Thus 
| 
the corporation’s debts cannot be colected from any of the individuals 
| connected with the corporation, unless a creditor can persuade a 
court that somebody set up the corporation for the sole purpose of 
dodging personal debts. If the corporation goes broke nobody can get 
. at the personal possessions or money of the corporation’s members. 
~ If an employee of the corporation causes serious damage in a traffic 
‘accident, the corporation will have to pay damages, but none of the 
» other employees and none of the owners will have to pay the damages, 
| 
even if the corporation itself is unable to pay. 
| The advantages of making the corporation nonprofit has to do with 
tax status. As a separate person, a regular corporation must pay its 
| own taxes on its income, but if a nonprofit corporation qualifies 
| under Federal standards, it does not pay income taxes. Thus if a labor 
| union or an educational magazine, both of which are nonprofit 
| 
corporations, have more money coming in than is going out, neither 
_will have to pay the usual corporate income tax. Again, this 
| corporate income shouldn't be confused with the salaries of 
| ‘individual employees which are still subject to personal income tax. 
| 
Another tax advantage is that individuals who donate money to 
| certain nonprofit corporations can receive personal tax deductions 
| 
for their donations. 
| 
Another advantage of a corporation is that its very existence lends 
Stability and respectability to your enterprise, especially in the eyes of 
people like bankers and local storekeepers who hand out things in 
credit. 
: 
What are the disadvantages of having a nonprofit corporation? 
You will have the initial expense of forming the corporation. 
Although there are manuals available most groups will have to hire a 
lawyer to do the legal work and he/she will charge a minimum of 
several hundred dollars unless you can persuade him/her to do the 
incorporation as a public service (not likely). As a corporation you 
will have to keep careful financial records and file detailed tax 
| returns concerning the corporation's finances. Incorporation means 
that you must in some way show proof of observance of specific 
regulations and formalities, for example, regular meetings of a 
|. board of directors; it also means someone will be watching to see that 
you do things like make payroll deductions, pay unemployment 
insurance taxes, etc. 
There are other less tangible drawbacks. Persons working for the cor- 
poration will have to act with a high degree of care, since their actions 
| 
can put the assets of the whole corporation at stake, for example in 
_ the traffic situation described above. Incorporation means your 
enterprise will have.a higher degree of visibility both with the 
community and the government. The existence of a corporation may 
increase the likelihood of its being sued. For this reason, 
; 
| most labor unions are not incorporated. Certain people such as internal 
revenue agents and the state attorney general will have the right to be 
| snooping into your affairs, if they think you are violating the 
| 
purposes stated in your Articles of Incorporation or to check out any 
| information in your tax returns. 
| 
| What exactly is involved in formation of the nonprofit corporation? 
' As was already stated, you will almost always have to hire a lawyer to 
do the formation, but you should have a clear understanding of what 
he/she is up to. First you will have to select a name for your 
corporation and register it with the state---in California, specifically 
the office of the secretary of state. You will have to choose three or 
|| more people to act as ‘‘Incorporators’’. Their duties are to sign the 
| articles of incorporation, and act as the board of directors at the 
first meeting of the board of directors. They may then resign and 
elect a new set of directors who will act as the board from then on, or 
they may themselves continue to act as directors. It should be noted 
_by any potential directors, that they are required to exercise reasonable 
‘care in running the corporation and if they fail they may be held 
| 
legally responsible for mismanagement. 
_ 
You will also draw up Articles of Incorporation. The law requires that 
| these articles contain 
the name of the corporation, the names of the 
incorporators, and the county 
where the principle place of business 
| is to be located. Most important these articles must state the specific 
| primary use or purposes for which the corporation was formed. These 
Purposes must be carefully chosen since they are the most important 
consideration in determining whether the corporation will be granted 
> 
_ 
Except for tax questions, which concern the federal government, 
each state has its own laws regarding corporations. These answers are 
ased on California law, but at least in regards to these general 
“questions, the reader can assume that his state has similar or analogous 
laws. 
nonprofit status for Federal tax purposes. Some time during this 
period, a set of by-laws will have to be drafted. The by-laws set out 
the rules for governing the corporation, for example, how are the 
directors to be elected, how are the meetings of the board called, 
when are meetings of the members to be called, what is the price of 
membership, what classes of membership are there to be, etc. Ina 
small corporation; such questions are mostly formalities and standard 
forms can be used. The Articles of Incorporation should be done first 
since the corporation’s life begins when the Articles are filed with the 
appropriate state agency. Sometime during this period also, you will 
want to apply to the Internal Revenue Service and to the appropriate 
state agency for a determination that the corporation will be exempt 
from taxes. On the average, if there are no complicated tax problems, 
these procedures will take about 
(ask Charlie). 
Ayn Rand says the dollar sign insignia 
was arrived at by superimposing the 
U and the S of United States. 
Means US. 
“If there are no complicated tax problems, the attorney should 
complete incorporation procedures within a month. A ruling 
from the IRS should take about three weeks more, once 
incorporation is completed. The most important factor in 
determining the length of time everything will take is how quickly 
your attorney works.” 
This answer, and subsequent answers do not apply to charitable 
organizations such as the March of Dimes, whose regulation is both 
different and a great deal more detailed. Also, California considers 
co-operatives to be a special type of nonprofit corporation, and has 
special rules concerning their formation. Unlike other corporations, 
the state does not give the parties freedom to choose their own 
Articles and by-laws, instead it specifies-such things as what type 
ot officers there will be and how they are elected. However, a co- 
operative is also allowed to distribute some types of dividends to 
its members. There is another special incorporating procedure 
which allows the head of a religious organization to act himself ina 
corporate capacity. It is called a ‘‘corporation sole”’. 
—Charlie 
One Dollar Lawyer 
Once the corporation has been formed, you will not have to file any 
continuing types of reports other than tax returns. The only 
exception is if it becomes necessary to amend the Articles of Incorpor- 
ation, which shouldn't happen unless the corporation goes through 
some type of major changes in its purpose for existence. 
Some of us choose to deal with money. The best book I have found 
on the subject is How To Avoid Financial Tangles by Kenneth G. 
Masteller. This book is not quite as good as having a lawyer, but 
then I talk to a lawyer frequently and I learned a lot reading this 
book. Volume I deals with property problems, financial relationships, 
joint ownership, wills and trusts; life, auto and fire insurance. 
Volume II deals with taxes, gifts, and help for the widow. Volume III 
has ideas for retirement planning. You can do most of the legal bit 
yourself. $1.00 per volume from American Institute for Economic 
Research, Great Barrington, Mass. 01230. Please note I am not 
recommending their books on investing. The only complaint I have 
is that this used to be available for $1.00 total, and these people 
are always screaming about inflation. 
Could you explain more about the tax angles? 
As was mentioned before, the Internal Revenue Service will tell you 
before you- begin operating as a corporation whether you qualify for 
the various tax exemptions available to nonprofit corporations. This 
saves you the trouble of going through the whole procedure of 
formation, if you aren't going to get tax advantages. 
Federal exemptions for nonprofit coporations are set up in specific 
categories. The most advantageous category is for ‘‘religious’’, 
: 
“charitable”, and ‘’educational’’ organizations. Not only is the incom 
of corporations within this category tax exempt, but unlike all the 
other categories, persons making donations to these corporations 
may receive tax deductions on their personal income tax. However, 
corporations in this category have a very important limitation on 
their activities; they may not participate in any political campaign, 
lobby for specific legislation, or otherwise engage in active political 
activity. This is the reason that the IRS has taken away the Sierra 
Club’s tax exemption. 
Walter Groch 
Berkeley, Calif. 
All the other categories allow. the tax exemption for the corporation’s 
income but do not allow donors to deduct their contributions. These 
categories include organizations dedicated to “social welfare’, 
business leagues, social clubs, labor and agricultural organizations, credit 
unions, and farmers cooperatives. Exemptions from state income taxes 
usually are modeled on the federal laws. For most of these categories, 
any ‘‘unrelated business” carried on by the corporation as a subsidiary 
to its main purposes, for example a college bookstore, is 
subject 
to tax on its income. (Whole Earth pays taxes on its store and mail- 
Emmit felt his face. He rubbed his cheek with his hand, then 
both cheeks at once with both his hands, and finished smiling. Did 
you do that? he asked. 
order operation.) 
° 
In California, a few types of nonprofit corporations are also exempt 
Yep. 
from property taxes, these are, religious, hospital, charitable, 
Pa 
scientific, and some types of higher education institutions. For all of 
these tax exemptions, the corporation will be required to file detailed 
c 
ed 
t 
Are you the one in charge here? 
informational tax returns showing that the corporation is not 
violating its exemption. Of course, if the IRS or state agency feel that 
e 
the corporation has violated its exemption, it will investigate 
} 
Fo Rasaid hia was: 
further and if not satisfied will remove the exemption for a period of 
time until the violation has ended. 
e 
How much of a problem is it to dissolve the corporation? 
Can | dream away the sky? 
e 
A corporation remains legally alive unless the formal procedures of 
dissolution are carried out. Thus if you form a corporation and later 
it ceases to do any business or carry out any activity, that in itself will 
not dissolve it. Since the members are considered the owners of the 
corporation voluntary dissolution can only occur when 50% of the 
members vote to dissolve. A formal certificate must be filed with the 
appropriate state agency showing that such a vote has occurred. The 
i 
Board of directors must then follow a set of procedures spelled out in 
the laws. This process is called ‘‘winding up” and includes terminating 
business relationships, paying all bills, and dividing up whatever is 
left over among the members. The.corporation then ceases to exist 
once a certificate of winding up and dissolution has been filed with 
the appropriate state and county agencies. Like formation, you will 
probably have to hire a lawyer to do your dissolution . 
You can dream away the sky and fill the gap with blossoms, 
Emmit. You can do anything you feel of a mind to do, old friend. 
e 
I'll dream the sky away and think about the honey-pond and 
fritter-tree, Emmit said. That’s a land, you know. 
© 
| might dream along with you after while, said D.R. I’m pretty 
sleepy. 
e 
: 
Don’t go to sleep, said Emmit. That’d violate the other custom. 
There are also several types of procedures for getting a court to order 
dissolution. These are generally termed involuntary dissolution, 
® 
and are of course expensive since they go through a court. The 
y 
35 
directors of 1/3 of the members may ask the court to dissolve if the 
What custom is that, Emmit? 
corporation has not done any business for a year, if there has been 
e 
serious mismanagement, or if there is a serious deadlock among the 
directors. 
A trustworthy man on guard! said Emmit, and for the first time 
since they'd been there, he laughed. 
What alternatives to formation of a nonprofit corporation are there? 
re 
The most important alternative form of enterprise is a nonprofit un- 
incorporated association. The main difference is that the association 
has no separate legal existence. Thus any debts and other liabilities of 
the association can be collected from the individual active members of 
the association. As was noted in the case of labor unions, this may 
be an advantage. Futhermore, the modern trend of the law has been to 
give associations many of the advantages formally held only by 
corporations. For example, associations can now own some types of 
property in their own name, and can sue and’be sued in their own 
name. Associations may apply for the various federal and state tax 
exemptions in the same way that a corporation would. 
D.R. tried to tell Estelle about it, the shave, and Emmit’s face, 
‘ so much like his father’s. But that was too particular, too precise a 
thing for him to have enough words for. What he did have words 
for was an image of how it felt to be there in that hospital like he 
was. He said, one of the men in Emmit’s ward has been here four 
months now, and another almost three, and | know that to them a 
day and a half can’t seem like a very-long time. But it’s some kind 
of infinity for me. 
| haven't slept at all except little naps in my 
chair, and once last night for about an hour lying on a gurney in the 
hall. 
It’s very informal at night. It’s a small place, and nobody ever 
comes on heavy much. You can stretch out where ever you can at 
night and nobody seems to mind. 
| have the keenest sense of this 
place as a secret city hidden from the world. And all the people in 
it are perpetually stoned on the activity of the city, which is suffer- 
ing, and coping with suffering. Some of the suffering is birth and 
some of it is death, and endless different points in between. After a 
day and a half here; round the clock, | feel as if we've all been here 
all our lives, together, as if we're all warm and comfortable inside 
this strange cloak. 
It’s like I’m wearing this hospital, as if its atmos- 
phere and its routines, night and day and day and night, people 
coming and going, the change of shifts, the long passing of the night 
and then the day, is all some kind of magnificent garment I’ve put 
on. And Emmit is in it with me. We're all in it, doctors, patients, 
nurses, visitors, secretaries, everybody, and it's as if we all like being 
here in one another's company, collectively 
Law Commune 
1263 El Camino 
Menlo Park, CA. 94025 
: 
Non-Profit 
Communications 
