a 
& 
an: 
ee” 
3 
: 
A, 
Troy-Bilt Roto Tiller 
_ his place)——or go to a garden tractor shop and pretend 
_ As marginal farmers follow Good Life consumption hype 
* 
$7.50 
~ 
$513-$543 (Direct factory orders get discount from 10% in 
the spring to 22% July thru September) 
You'll save enough 
on beer in ten hot days to pay the difference between this 
machine and some suburbanite deluxe. 
Your 14-year-old daughter may never take the Troy-Bilt 
over and plow under the neighbor’s cornstalks with it 
(though it has happened) but you can still work 10 acres 
easier & better with this tiller than with any garden tractor 
in sight. Gear-driven, powered wheels——you can guide it 
with one hand and not come trampling along thru the seed 
bed. It also cultivates, furrows, plows snow and chops in 
virtually anything but trees for direct composting. 
Front- 
blade tillers break your back and shake your skin loose—— 
it would be easier to keep mules. 
Troy-Bilt has blades 
behind the wheels, so in rough going (asphalt, maybe? 
I’ve never run into any “rough going”) you could lean on 
the handles instead of lifting the wheels off the ground. 
Engineering miracle, no? They are also just plain nice 
people to deal with. 
This review is not intended to replace the one of the Graveley 
tractor 
. 
Graveley is a fine machine, will last almost for- 
ever, and will do just about anything (with extra cost 
attachments.) But it costs twice what the Troy-Bilt does 
and | don't think it will do twice as much. Maybe ona 
larger acreage. . .but at least in the Midwest almost any 
implement lot or farm sale will produce an old tractor, 
disc, harrow, buzz saw for wood cutting and brush 
clearing, snow blade, etc. for less than the price of a com- 
plete Gravely outfit. None of it is the latest but with 
some mechanical sense and a little judicious rapping at the 
implement dealers. , you learn what to watch for and you 
won't get junk either. And remember, you can’t ask 
questions if you don’t know a plow from a pump jack. 
Get the basics from a book——or a friendly farmer (who 
will probably try to sell you every piece of scrap iron on 
you're suburbanites. 
off the land it’s only right we should take up this smaller 
machinery even as we use those small scraps of land that 
don’t fit into corporate food factories. Going at it this 
way, $1500 will buy the same machines your uncle used to 
farm a half section——or two Troy-Bilt tillers, a chain saw, 
pump, and snow shovel——or the Gravely tractor outfit—— 
and any of them will turn your 20 acres into Eden with 
no strain at all. But for a simple tilling/composting 
machine, the Troy-Bilt roto tiller is the best thing around. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Bob Kirk] 
TITS 
RAI 
RMT 
ATTRA 
NEM ARTE 
OY 
aR 
EN 
SA 
SARI 
YT 
REA 
PE 
PET 
NE 
VRPT 
HESITY 
OSS 
COMTVE 
TP 
OIE 
ASEM 
2M 
ARICA 
SOM 
IO 
IE 
mann 
pace 
Brochure from: 
Troy-Bilt 
102nd St. & 9th Ave 
Troy, N.Y. 12180 
Cn ee 
eet 
« 
~ Mushroom Growing For Everyone 
£ Apparently the main effort in growing mushrooms is having, 
_ or making, marvelous compost to grow them on. Beyond 
_ that they‘re a low-maintenance grow-em-in-corners item. 
_ This British book has the ES 
—SB 
Mushroom Growing for Everyone 
Roy Genders » 
- 1969; 216 pp. 
See Epilog, 
page ATG 
: 
from: 
Transatlantic Arts, Inc. 
“North Village Green 
Levittown, N.Y. 11756 
_or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
: 
A crop of mushrooms may be produced-in boxes beneath the 
kitchen sink, in a cellar or ina garden shed. They may be’ grown in 
a cupboard beneath the stairs, or in an attic roam, where perhaps 
“no more than two or three boxes may be planted with spawn; these 
_ would take the minimum amount of time to care for, just a few 
“minutes each day. When the crop came into bearing and, provided 
“the temperature did not fall below 45°F (79°C) there would be a 
few mushrooms each week for possibly three months or more. 
Artificial heat is not necessary for mushrooms, but the beds (or 
boxes) will not bear if the temperature falls below 40°F (4°C). 
Though the beds may become completely frozen, no harm will be 
done, and the crop will begin again as soon as the air temperature 
rises. This is another advantage:in growing mushrooms in compari- 
son with plants which may be damaged by hard frosts. 
Indeed, the 
st quality mushrooms will be obtained where the temperature 
does not rise above 55°F (13°C), and a cool place is better than 
one which is too warm, when pest and disease will be at a minimum. 
Gravely Tractor 
_ 
| own an old one——and my 5 acres is more like 35. We 
mow, plow, cultivate, cut brush, saw wood, pump water, 
plow and blow deep snow, clear ice, haul, etc., with it. 
No belts and plenty of power. 
(Don’t try to help it—— 
it’s stronger than you are.) Rotary plow turns organic 
debris under and leaves a ready-to-plant seed bed in 
one operation. 
How did you miss it so long? Not cheap, first cost, but 
it will outlast them all and does a better job easier. 
[Reviewed by George D. James, Jr.] 
$544-$937 
2-wheel tractors 
Brochure from: 
Rotary plow 
$147 
Gravely Corporation 
Rotary mower 
$330 
Gravely Lane 
Clemons, N. C. 27012 
4-wheel tractors 
$796—$2,038 
See Epilog, pages 491, 496 
Soil Test. Kit 
' A soil test kit enables you to test your garden soil for 
acidity/alkalinity, nitrogen, phosphorus, and potash. A 
test will show what is present and what is lacking. 
There 
are test tubes, chemicals, and a color chart to gauge results. 
Be sure to ask for “The Organic Supplement” prepared by 
Organic Gardening magazine in case “’. 
.. you have decided 
to work with Nature’s own methods of fertilization.” Feed 
the soil, not the plant. 
iiava kann 
Sudbury Soil Test Kit 
Send for descriptive literature 
Kits: $6.95 - $42.95 
from: 
Box WE74 
_ 
Sudbury, Mass. 01776 
It is important that the compost attains a temperature of at least 
160°F (71°C) in the heap so that the spores of vert-degris disease 
and brown plaster mould are killed. A high temperature will also 
drive any mushtoom midges to the surface, where they may be 
killed by one of the mushroom fly sprays. 
It should be said that, 
where animal manures are excluded, relying entirely upon the 
activator and possible a little poultry manure for composting, 
the incidence of introducing disease spores will be minimised. 
Sudbury raBorneny: Inc. 
these items no longer available 
The wagon master was moved. Behind the stern set of his 
huge jaw his face showed real emotion. He stood above the 
weeping woman, trying to figure out what to do. Finally he thought 
of something. He took off his hat. But the woman cried on as 
before, and the wagon master showed more and more real emotion. 
At last he sat down beside her and picked up a stick and began 
drawing in the dirt. 
“Aw shucks, mam,” he began. “’! didn’t mean tuh make yuh 
cry. 
It’s just that, well, out here on the trail, it seems like there 
just ain’t no time much for payin’ attention tuh people’s feelings. 
Life’s hard out here, mam. And it makes a man hard. Whatever 
good comes out of this westward movement's going to have to 
be carved right out of the dust, and it ain’t a gonna be easy. 
People get hurt, and people get bitter, and some people get killed. 
But | believe a great thing will come out of it all someday, mam, a 
brand new world where folks’ll stand tall and be free and inde- 
pendent. Every day more people are headin’ west, mam. And 
once you set out, there ain’t no turnin’ back. 
They’ve got a 
vision, mam. They’re a very special kind of people, almost a new 
kind of people, you might say. People that want something more 
outa life than just comfort and security and money. This wagon 
train’s made up of people like that, mam, people willin’ to work 
and sacrifice and give up the old things so they can learn how to 
do what the new world requires ‘em to do. That's the kind of 
person you are, mam. And | mean that. 
It’s people like you who’re 
gonna make this new world into what it’s going to be. And I’m 
proud to help out some. 
| know | make a lot of mistakes, mam, 
mistakes that a woman like you is bound to notice and get upset 
by. So | apologize, mam, for upsetting’ yuh. 
I'll try to keep it 
from happenin’ again. 
If we don’t run into any redskins, we'll 
be in Fort Leary in a couple of days. Everything’Il be all right 
then.” 
The lady wagon driver dabbed her eyes with a hankie. Then 
she looked up and managed a smile through her tears. “I don’t 
know why I’m telling you this,” she sniffed, reaching to take his 
hand in her's. “But after what you just said, | feel compelled to. 
Tom, I’ve admired you greatly, ever since we left St. Louis. 
| 
know I haven’t shown it. | know that I’ve been silly, anda 
nuisance. 
I've been confused, but now | think | understand, and 
| must speak my heart to you. All these weeks on the trail to- 
gether, long days of dust and thirst and the ever-present danger 
of Indians, and these cold nights when the wolves howl and the moon 
lights up the emptiness of the lonely prairie, all the long, hard 
weeks since we left St. Louis, Tom, I’ve believed that | was in 
love with you. And the thing | realize now is that I’m not. 
| 
admire you too greatly for that. To love you would only be to 
tie you down. You've got a great work in front of you, Tom 
Ginsberg, a great role to fill on behalf of all the people who are 
to follow you west to help build the new world of freedom and 
opportunity you spoke of. It’s not people like me who keep 
alive the promise of the westward movement, Tom, it's people 
like you. You've got dragons to slay, great heroic deeds to per- 
form. 
| know that now. And knowing it somehow fills me:with 
the deepest peace I’ve ever known.” 
The wagon master didn’t know what to say. He just sat there 
scratching in the dirt with his stick. Finally he reached over and 
shook hands with the lady wagon driver. Then he went over to 
the chuckwagon and told the cook to fix her a buffalo steak. 
WELCOME TO WESTERN COUNTRY 
“Welcome to Western Country,” said a fag in a cowboy suit 
as he held up a package of cigarettes. ‘Welcome to the clean, 
fresh taste of the great outdoors.” As the fag took a Western out 
of the package and lit it, the camera pulled away to show a bunch 
of guys branding calves and generally horsing around the corral. 
Then the camera closed in on the fag again as he took a deep drag 
on his Western. He filled his lungs, and then without exhaling 
he seemed to fill his lungs again. Two, five, ten seconds and more 
went by and still he didn’t exhale. As his face turned red and his 
eyes began to bulge he looked straight at Divine Right and grinned. 
D.R. laughed and gave him the V-sign. At last the fag blew the 
smoke out and holding up the cigarettes one more time he said, 
“Won't you have a Western?” 
“Thanks,” said D.R. “But | just had one.” 
Laughing, Estelle said. “Them Westerns is all right cigarettes.” 
The cigarette commercial was followed by one about Stud 
pickup trucks. The picture showed a new Stud pickup rolling 
across the prairie chased by a herd of wild mustangs. A closeup 
showed how the independent front suspension absorbed the shock 
of the rocks and holes while the passengers rode in total comfort. 
(continued) 
Soil 
Land Use 5t9) 
