Knots | oo 
: 
Don‘t buy the definitive Encyclopedia of Knots and Fancy 
Ropework. Buy Knots and Splices (95¢) /f you want to 
graduate beyond tying your shoe into being useful with rope 
dnd string. Once that book gets you into working regularly 
with rope, move on up to Handbook of Knots and become 
a journeyman knot-tyer comfortable with cable and occasion- 
al fancy work. If you want to tel! stories while you tie, or 
connect up with history and other possibilities, get The 
Ashley Book of Knots and start smoking a pipe. Now you're 
ready for Encyclopedia of Knots and Fancy Rope Work 
(includes far-out macrame)). 
Handbook of Knots 
Raoul Graumont 
1945; 194 pp.; 428 good knots 
$2.50 postpaid. 
from: 
Cornell Maritime Press, Inc. 
Box 109 
Cambridge, Md. 21613 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Fig. 108 A: The Single Fisherman’s Knot is ordinarily 
used to tie gut, which is less likely to slip when tied 
with this form of knot than when joined with a reef 
knot or sheet bend. 
It is tied with the underhand 
loop on the ieft overlapping the underhand loop on 
the right in the manner shown. The bight is then 
pulled through as the drawn in line indicates. 
B: Illustrates the knot after the operation has been 
completed. This knot is often called an Englishman’s, 
true lovar’s or waterman’s knot. 
Fig. 109 A: The Tom Fool’s Knot or Arizona 
Handcuff Hitches, also known as a Conjurer’s Knot, 
f 
‘ 
k 
See Epilog, 
is said to have been used as. a rope handcuff in the 
Knots are profound things, you 
know. 
page 558 
early days of the West. It can also be used as a jar 
: 
_SB 
s 
or pitcher sling. 
It is tied by forming a loop in the 
manner shown, with one part of the line crossing 
: 
over and the other part crossing under the knot. The 
Knots and Splices 
rt: 
bights are then pulled through as indicated. 
Percy W. Blandford 
“AQ 
1962; 79 pp.; 80 good knots 
) 
os 
SS? 
(ry 
AGE 
~ $0.95 postpaid 
: 
B. The completed knot is shown here. 
From 
LEVERAGE SHEEPSHAN ri 
( 
) 
2 
B 
Arco Publishing Company 
MAAS 
RANK. 
e 
qs 
219 Park Ave. South 
‘ 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
a a) 
, 
s 
“ 
(pa 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
as 
Wo 
For dragging, you can get your shoulder into a bow- 
asta 
aA 
GUY LINE HITCH 
line at the end of the rope, but if someone is needed to 
Le 
Spey 
vPet | 
help you, you have to make a loop in the rope without 
2 mars 
a 
using its ends. This can be a man-harness knot. Take 
4 
ae, 
Go” 
up enough for the loop (Fig. 4C), and start to make 
{ © 
an overhand knot in it (Fig. 4D). Instead of completing 
BCS S 
BEI: 
i 
the overhand knot, grasp the opposite side of the loop 
4 
through the part-knot and pull it through (Fig. 4E). To 
« oda 
HOLD Down 
keep the knot in shape while doing this, hold one part of 
J 
WY 
DIRS 
the rope under your foot while pulling upwards on the 
SaNRER 
MAN-HARNESS KNOT 
ea % ce ees 
sds 
other part, and outwards at right angles on the loop. . 
a 
Say oS oy 
sae 
s 
"Give me the goddamn hose!”’ said Bert. He reached to take 
e€ 
shie 
OOK 
O 
oO 
it out 
o 
orton s 
hand, 
du 
orton, a 
oug 
e was unconscious 
The Ashley Book 
of Knots 
it out of Norton’s hand, but Norton, 
although 
h 
i 
from: 
the fingers. 
jerked. 
A knot having been tied or projected, the next thing 
~ 
in order is to ‘work’ it, which means to draw it up 
snug while molding it into proper shape. The slack 
should be worked-out very gradually. . This is a matter 
of no less importance than correct tying, and often 
presents a more difficult problem, requiring both 
patience and practice. Carefully fair the knot, and, 
once having arranged_the cord in symmetrical form, 
never allow it to become distorted, even momentarily. 
Ropework, Knots, Rigging 
The definitive text is Encyclopedia of Knots and Fancy Ropework 
by Hensel and Graumont available from the Cornell Maritime Press, 
Cambridge, Maryland. The Ashley Book of Knots is comprehensive 
and charming; however, the Encyclopedia is comprehensive and 
usable (ie., diagrams are clearer and instructions are easier to 
follow). 
Town Ashley ard if I 
had it to do over again I’d buy 
Graumont. Also, the last time I looked the Encyclopedia was $12.00 
at least $2.00 cheaper than Ashley. Actually, all most folks will 
ever need is Handbook of Knots by Graumont, $2.00 from Cornell 
. 
Maritime. It handles every working knot of general use and then 
some. If it is splicing that is of special interest Splicing 
Wire and 
Ejiber Rope by Graumont and Hensel is all you need (plus a fid, 
serving mallet, assorted marlinespikes) to splice, worm, parceland 
 « 
_ 
serve. I’ve spoken to several master riggers from Eleventh Avenue 
in Manhattan to Glouchester all of whom spoke highly and ex- 
clusively about this book. It is in hard cover for $3.00 also from 
Cornell Maritime. It is printed on high quality glossy paper to 
- 
withstand the constant use by greasy hands, a book that’s a real 
tool. 
; 
3 
_ 
Speaking of rigging, there is a terrific future for qualified riggers. 
Ski lifts all have their cables spliced and all the tent and net struc- 
tures of the larger type currently on the drawing boards will have 
to use wire cable which must 
be spliced in order to maintain the 
strength specs (knotting cuts down as much as 50% wire bolts as 
much as 25% on stated strengths, a well executed transmitional 
splice will leave over 95% strength). Rigging is a demanding and 
: exacting craft with a long and honorable tradition. 
It may be the 
second oldest profession as rope (hemp) was one of the earliest 
- invention of man. 
_ On macrame’, which I always thought was square knot fancywork, 
there is-a store in Brooklyn, C.E. Herwig, where you can see the 
_ best of fancy ropework and get all the supplies you need like 
different size, quality, color twines. I think they’re on Clinton 
Street in the Brooklyn Heights section. 
. 
Harvey Kalmeyer 
Taos, New Mexico 
Clifford W. Ashley 
1944; 260 pp.; 3900 incredible knots’ 
$1 6.95 postpaid 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
143, To break a heavy cord or string; take a turn of the cord 
around the left palm. Revolve the left hand so the cord is twisted in 
front of the 
palm, and wind the standing part several times around 
rap the end (which is longer than illustrated) several 
times around the right hand; hold everything firm and jerk stoutly, 
In each of the two methods given the string crosses itself at right 
angles, one part being held rigidly while the other part is strongly 
My first impression was that the weakening effect of this harsh 
crossing was the important factor in causing the string to break in- 
variably at this point, One of the “Jaws'’ quoted in dictionary and 
encyclopedia knot discussions is that “the strength of aknot depends 
on the ease of its curves,” and of course a right-angle crossing pro- 
vides the uneasicst curve that is possible within a knot. 
Doubleday & Co., {nc. 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, N. Y. 11530 
2064. Latching is an old method of attaching a drabbler to a jiv, 
or a bonnet to a fore and aft sail. Nowadays it is the method em- 
ployed by circuses in assembling the canvas sections of the tents. 
A series of eyelets in the upper section of the sail are opposite a 
ing at one side, a key is rove through the opposite eyelet and hauled 
to the next eye. The next key is rove through its opposite eye and 
through the key that was first led. This process is continued until 
the center is reached. The process 
is then repeated, beginning at the 
other edge of the sail, The two center loops, being twice as long as 
the rest, are reef knotted together. Captain John Smith described 
them in 1627, calling them “latchets.” 
2065. The Chinese zindlass is the grandfather of the present-day 
differential chain hoist. One end winds, while the other unwinds, 
and the right end of the barrel, being larger than the left, winds or 
unwinds a greater length of rope.than the left end, vith each revolu- 
tion of the crank. 
Encyclopedia of Knots and Fancy Rope Work 
Raoul M. Graumont, John Hensel 
1939, 1942, 1943, 1952; 690 pp. 
$15.00 postpaid 
from: 
Cornell Maritime Press 
Cambridge, Maryland 21613 
or WHOLE EARTH*CATALOG 
See Epilog, page 558 
series of loops, termed “keys,” in the headrope of the bonnet. Srart-, 
by now, held it in a slobbery death-grip, and Bert was too stoned 
to fight him. As usual City Girl had to mediate. Gently she 
worked Norton’s hands loose, and gave the hose to Bert as Norton 
fell over in City Girl’s lap. Bert put the hose in his mouth and 
inhaled until he flashed. He wanted the rose garden again, but 
all he got was Billy Graham silently rapping at him on the top 
left television screen. 
‘ 
The three TV’s were in the corner of the living room opposite 
the entrance to the kitchen. The big set on the bottom was a 
brand new color one that Eddie had bought only a week before 
he was killed. The other two were black and white, and small 
enough to sit side by side on top of the big set. The sound on the 
top left TV was torn up, but that's the one Billy Graham was on, 
and nobody wanted to hear him anyway. He was okay to look 
at, but the picture everybody wanted sound to was the quiz 
show on the big TV, in which newly-wed couples got a lot of free 
stuff if they knew the right answers. 
The competition on the newly-wed show was between three 
young couples, the Morrisons, of Buffalo, New York; the Littons, 
of Oneonta, New York, and the Baileys, of Maryville, Tennessee. 
The funeral party was instantly unanimous in its hatred of the 
Baileys, because it was so obvious that their highest aim in life 
was to get to Knoxville where Charles would run for city attorney, 
and Rita would be an active Vol booster. As Rita pointed out 
when she introduced herself, she was a graduate of the University 
of Tennessee, where she had been very active in extra-curricular 
affairs. When she mentioned “extra-curricular affairs,” the 
audience laughed. 
Rita blushed but laughed too. 
‘'! didn’t mean 
it that way,” she said. Every time Rita and Charies said anything 
the people at the funeral hissed and booed and called them stupid 
motherfuckers. 
Everybody was kinder 
to the Morrisons. They dug Mrs. Morrison 
especially because she was so straight-forward and upfront in her 
manner. Her manner said: okay, by god, I’m on TV now, and 
I’m going to win every goddamn thing | can while I’ve got the 
chance. The people at the funeral liked Mrs. Morrison for that, 
and until the mid-program commercials Blue Ox, Gilded Lilly 
and Winston rooted hard for her and her husband to win. 
As the program went on, however, the group sentiment slowly 
shifted to the Littons of Oneonta, and by the end of the program 
everybody at the funeral was solidly behind them. They were 
the truly engaging couple. Roger Litton was short and, at twenty- 
seven, a little jowly already, and Betty was having her weight 
problems too. They were handsome enough in the face, but 
there wasn’t any getting around it, the Littons of Oneonta were 
fat, and because the Morrisons and Baileys, particularly that prissy 
Rita, were trying to come on so chic and “now,” the people at 
the funeral foved the Littons all the more. They were fat, and 
they were modest, and they were also damn clever. The subject 
of the day was World Religions. The Littons weren't theologians 
or anything, but they knew that Buddha was enlightened under 
a bo tree, and that it was Jesus who'd said, "Straight is the 
gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few 
there be that find it.” 
The Morrisons and the Baileys didn’t know 
shit about world religions. When the question man asked Mr. 
Morrison what country was most closely identified with Zen, he 
guessed Persia. When he asked Rita Bailey who was the author 
of the Bhagavad-Gita, she said, “Mahatma Ghandi?”’ 
When the scores were added and Roger and Betty Litton pro- 
nounced the winners, of a new Maverick, fifty cartons of Marlboros, 
a fur coat for the Mrs. and a set of golf clubs for the Man of the 
House, plus a year’s supply of parakeet food.and a forty-eight 
hour vacation in Barcelona, everybody at the funeral applauded 
except Divine Right and Estelle, who had sort of withdrawn from 
it all and were sulking quietly in separate corners of the room. 
Roger and Betty hugged each other. As the Program credits 
streamed across the screen they walked arm in arm off the stage 
into their new life together. 
“Turn to channel four,” said Chuck. “It’s time for the hyp- 
notism man.” 
Knots 
Indu_ 
ry 
