Build-it-yourself Science Laboratory 
My youthful science investigations went about as far as the 
tameability of wild animals and the thermo-dynamics of 
breaking glass. Some kids go a lot further, and this book 
is for them. Stay out of the lab unless invited. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Fernando L. Nevarez] 
Build-it-yourself Science Laboratory 
Raymond E. Barrett 
1963; 339 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid 
from: 
Doubleday Books 
501 Franklin Ave. 
Garden City, N.Y. 11530 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
HARMONOGRAPH 
Purpose: Harmonic motion is a movement or motion that repeats 
itself. A pendulum is a good example of harmonic motion. When 
two forces work together, the result is a pattern of movement that 
combines the movements of both forces. The harmonograph records 
such movement in pleasing and unusual designs. 
BUILO-IT-YOURSELF 
SCIENCE LABORATORY 
Materials: Wood for stand, piece of plywood, two wooden rods about 
5’ long, two metal collars, two cans, two clamps for the rods, four 
spikes, cement for the cans. 
Transistors and Circuits 
Home electronics. 
—SB 
Transistors and Circuits 
j 
W..E. Pearce, Aaron E. Klein 
1966; 1971; 156 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid 
from: 
Doubleday and Co., Inc. 
501 Franklin Ave. 
Garden City, N.Y 11530 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
(probably cheaper from Blackwell's, p. 2) 
Figure 91 
LIGHTNING CONDUCTORS 
A lightning discharge is an electric sprak between two oppositely 
charged clouds, or between a charged cloud and the earth. The 
discharge may pass through a building with disastrous results. To 
prevent this, a conductor such as a copper strip is well grounded 
at One end near a wall and erected as high above the building as 
possible. At the top, a number of sharp metal points are fixed to 
the conductor. When a charged thunder cloud comes over the 
house, there is a good chance that point action will neutralize the 
charge on the cloud. 
If a flash should occur, the straight conductor 
offers an easy and safe path for the electricity to the ground. 
In a number of electrical machines, as described later, charges are 
collected by the action of points. On the other hand, charges can 
be lost by point action. Charge the electroscope as in Figure 10, 
and remove the balloon. Place a grounded conductor within 1/8 
inch of the points. Unless you are well insulated your hand will 
do as the conductor. The action is now reversed, and the electro- 
scope loses its charge, which is grounded. 
390 
Science 
Learning 
Crystals and Crystal Growing 
Grow your own. 
Read J. G. Ballard’s The Crystal World. 
Crystals and Crystal Growing 
Alan Holden, Phylis Singer 
1960; 320 pp. 
$2.50 postpaid 
from: 
\ 
Doubleday and Co., Inc. 
501 Franklin Ave. 
Garden City, N.Y. 11530 
| 
CRYSTALS BHD 
CRYSTAL GROWING 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Plate 11. An ethylene diamine tartrate crystal with unex- 
pected crystals growing on its surfaces. Later they were iden- 
tified as crystals of the monohydrate. 
One of the touchstones to the true solid— a crystalline solid, in 
contrast to a merely “rigid” glass— is its sharp melting temperature. 
When you heat the crystal slowly, it remains rigid until it reaches 
its melting point. Then, if you keep it at that temperature, it will 
melt completely to a liquid. The temperature need not increase as 
the crystal melts; the melting point is a critical temperature for it, 
and there its orderliness suddenly collapses into disorder. 
| Test Tubes and Beakers 
Permanent Bubbles 
I'd like to recommend 
for review a publication of the Franklin 
Institute titled “True Plastic Bubbles and How to Blow Them”. 
It’s done by the same people who caused sucha 
stir about a year 
ago with their giant long-lasting soap bubbles. The resulting excite- 
ment inspired them to greater heights. This report tells how to 
blow bubbles up to 4 feet in diameter! The bubbles are tough, 
waterproof, and being made of plastic film, have'an indefinite life 
span. The report gives brochures and sources for materials. Ask for 
“Plastic Bubbles Report’’ (No. 1) available from the Franklin 
Institute, 21st and the Parkway, Philadelphia, Pa. — $1.00 
John Prenis 
Utica, 
NY 
BY 
Home Physics 
Einstein once said that physicists first knew sin in World War II. 
Chemists had known sin in the First World War. By this he meant 
that the explosives and poison gases used in W.W. I were the work 
of chemists. The sin of the physicists was the atom bomb. There 
was a time before the physicists sinned. 
That was also a time before 
large grants and appropriations existed. Then physicists were poor. 
They built their research equipment from whatever was cheaply 
available. 
There is a how to do it book from that period. The title 
is Procedures in Experimental Physics. The author is John Strong 
of Cal. Tech. The illustrations are by Roger Hayward who does 
those fine drawings in the Amateur Scientist in “Scientific American”. 
Published by Prentice-Hall the book costs about $13.50. The same 
book ts published in England under the title Modern Physical 
Laboratory Practice. 
The first chapter in the book concerns working with glass. All the 
basics are covered. Several chapters have to do with making and 
testing mirrors, lenses, and telescopes. Others deal with heat and 
its measurement. 
Filters for light and special light sources are 
covered in still other chapters. If you want to go more deeply 
into photography than most amateur photographers do, there ts a 
chapter for you. There are chapters on melting iron, silver, or 
gold and making castings with them. All these things are done 
with simple hand tools for the most part. In short the procedures 
for doing most of the things necessary to make something useful 
are explained in this book. In addition this book is one step above 
most do it your self type books, because all the procedures have 
references to the technical journals. With these you can go Still 
more deeply into those items that interest you. 
This is an essential 
reference book for everyone who uses tools to make things. 
Sincerely, 
Daniel P. Norman 
Chicago, Illinois 
Test Tubes and Beakers 
Home Chemistry. A little deeper than 700 Science 
e 
Experiments (p. 388). 
E. H. Coulson, 
A. E. J. Trinder, Aaron E. Klein 
1963, 1971; 134 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid 
from: 
. 
i 
Doubleday and Co.; Inc. 
501 Franklin Ave. 
Garden City, N.Y. 11530 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Pencil lead 
Faper soaked in 
sodium chloride 
solu tzon 
Se 
Mi 
fey 
atte
LOL 
en 
NER 
Figure 66 
Electric Writing 
« 
Dissolve 1/8 teaspoon of sodium chloride in 2 milliliters of water. 
Divide the solution into two parts. 
ee
ee Sc
ee 
a 
ee
1. To one part add 3 drops of pheolphthalein solution. 
Using a bulb 
pipette, drop this mixture onto a 2 inch square of white blotting 
paper (or filter paper) until it is just wetted. Put the wet paper on a 
small piece of glass, and attach the alligator clip on one of your 
electrolysis leads to both paper and glass (Figure 66). Connect the 
plus end of this lead to the + pole of the battery. Fix a piece of 
pencil lead into the alligator clip of the other lead and connect this 
to the 6-volt pole of the battery. Hold the pencil Jead in your 
fingers and write lightly on the wet paper. The writing will appear 
red because of the formation of alkali at the cathode. Do not go 
on with this experiment too long; chlorine gas is evolved at the 
anode which, besides being poisonous and unpleasant, will corrode 
the alligator clip attached to the edge of the glass plate. 
es
Cardboard 
platform 
o
Figure 46 
a
ae 
eee 
THE PREPARATION OF AMMONIA 
Place 1/2 inch of ammonium chloride and 1/2 inch of slaked lime 
in a small test tube. Mix thoroughly. Gently warm in a Bunsen 
flame. Cautiously smell the gas evolved by waving the gas toward ~ 
you. Hold a damp red litmus paper near the mouth of the tube and 
note any changes. The gas is ammonia. 
Is the gas acidic or alkaline? 
— 
— 
et 
To make a larger quantity of the gas, set up as shown in the 
diagram (Figure 46). If a piece of cardboard is fitted over the 
delivery tube, it will help prevent too much of this gas escaping. 
Put 1 inch of strong ammonia solution or household ammonia in the 
flask and heat gently. As the gas is lighter than air, it can be 
7 
collected by upward delivery. Collect a jar and several tubes of the 
gas by holding the containers over the delivery tube. 
1. Observe the color and smell of the gas. The odor is hard to 
forget. 
. 
2.. Invert one of the tubes under water and note what happens 
inside the tube. What does this indicate? 
3. Invert the jar of ammonia and put a lighted splint into the jar 
(Figure 47). What is the color of the flame just above the splint 
before it goes out? 
