: 
Y 
5 
P 
> 
: 
Sometimes a Great Notion 
A 
strong man ‘s argument with himself, with the false meek 
and the hollow strength, until the meek rings true and the 
strength fills up. The book is about logging. Women hate 
it. 
: 
1 
7 ae 
Sometimes A Great Notion 
_ Ken Kesey 
- 1964; 599 pp. 
} $1 -25 postpaid | 
from: 
f 
| 
Bantam Books, Inc. 
_ 666 Fifth Ave. 
_ New York, N.Y..10019_ 
| 
\ 
‘| 
ts 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
| He moved his ear to the animal’s sleek bulk and could hear her guts 
working. He liked the sound. He liked the cow. He liked feeling 
her warmth and squeezing the rhythm of milk into the pail. !t was 
dumbz-ass thing keeping a milk-cow these days when you could 
|| buy milk cheaper’n alfalfa, but dammit a cow’s tit was a nice change 
| from an ax- -handle, and the soft working of a cow’s gut was a relief 
fter the old man’s snortin’ and fartin’ and John’s bullshitting and 
ah s wife's screeching. Oh, well; they didn’t really mean anything 
y it 
“The milk rang into the pail, then muffled its ringing in folds of 
white froth, a measured bel! sounding through thick, creamy warmth. 
This: 
is Hank's bell. 
On the river the motorboat gnashed at the leaf- Edappley water as 
| 
Ben ferried the loads of people across. 
Cars started, spinning 
gravel to get back onto the highway. Henry’‘s plaster cast thundered 
‘and rolled on the docks. 
| A dumb-ass thing, keeping a cow. 
n the deepening sky where the spearpoint firs scratch the clouds, 
lready a moon— 
like a cast-off paring from the setting sun. This 
Hank’s bell, too. 
f ut‘god oh mighty ain’t they warm to lean against? 
fon the docks the noisy woodpecker of a man parades up and down, 
| shaking his plume of hair that is yellow and coarse as a bundle of 
| broken toothpicks when seen close up; fifty yards away it is white 
‘as a thunderhead; fifty yards away at the wrong end of a telescope 
the drink-whipped cheeks of John glow with ruddy health, and 
| Orland’s wife steps into the waiting boat with a foot as demure and 
inty as that of a thoroughbred colt. Joe Ben's poor hacked 
‘gridiron of a face shines out across the green water as pure as a 
cameo, and his potato-shaped wife isa swan in polka-dotted 
| taffeta. Fifty yards away. 
| This is Hank's bell— secret between peaks of foam, muffled in 
|) warm white valleys— this is Hank’s bell ringing 
1 
° 
/ 
watched as Hank stood, strangely peaceful, and let the challenger 
deliver the first blow. 
It was almost his undoing. He was spun 
‘completely around and into the bar; his head struck the wood with 
| a thick sound and he fell to his knee RUN FOOL! WATCH OUT! 
) and the Bignewton was on him before he could rise...) 
You see, 
Lee? All every one dirty whining sniveling pricks vicious red-sweater 
unts grubby faces far back | can remember blame me Me, Lee, do 
you see? (this time hitting him high on the cheekbone and rolling 
| him face forward on the floor) assholes who couldn't pour piss 
outaa boot is my fault— Oh Christ, Lee, do you see? (and from 
i 
‘this position he twisted his head toward me WATCH OUT! WATCH 
OUT! seemingly to make certain of my presence) 
all yelling stomp 
him stomp the hardnosed motherfucker-- Oh Christ, Lee! (He looked 
at me:‘rom the floor, his head twisting back, asking the question 
now with one green eye WATCH OUT RUN!’ the other blinded 
with blood. . .) all yelling kill him because | won't run the sonsa- 
bitches Lee! you bastard! 
|. ..and, before | could think— because 
of the noise, the beer |’d drunk, perhaps because | wanted him 
beaten further— WATCH OUT, HANK! 
| heard myself shouting 
encouragement right along with Joe Ben GET UP, HANK, GET UP 
ET UP GET UP!) sonsabitches you think | care please let me hate 
‘them Lee-you see I can (and, as though he had been waiting for 
|my signal, he rose GET UP trailing blood HANK HANK and an 
| awesome war cry...) YOU you think | care hate J please them| 
lowe them not run Ae .to prove himself HANK YES HANK 
|HANK! every bit as primitive, . .) please hate! care do you? Them 
|sonsabitches! 
(as the prehistoric biped) THEM NOW do you? 
‘CARE please KILL THEM! (and even more proficient YES Aas 
YES a pugilist!) 
let me do you THEM kill NOW NOW NOW. . 
| 
" Us Now Praise Famous Men. 
ia This book is the opposite of fiction. In Walker Evans’ 
|\photographs and James Agee’s prose and in the lives of the 
quiet revolution. 
; 
: 
ee 
: 
—SB 
-—jd 
et Us Now Praise Famous Men 
| James Agee, Walker Evans 
| 1941, 1960; 428 pp. 
| 
$1 95 postpaid 
‘om: 
lantine Books, Inc. 
01 Fifth Avenue 
lew York, N.Y. 10003 
| or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
ie. 
yw were we caught? 
Ihat, what is it has happened? What is it has been happening that 
we are living the way we are? 
e children are not the way it seemed they might be: 
1e is no longer beautiful: 
‘no longer cares for me, he just takes me when he wants me: 
es so much work it seems like you never see the end of it: 
_ Doris Lessing 
Four-Gated City 
An introspective woman’s acquiescence to insanity to get 
understanding. 
It’s about culture, the city, issues of 
conscience, of madness and reality, of health. Men hate it. 
The Four-Gated City 
" 
Tl 
Four-Gated 
City 
1969; 656 pp. 
$1 .25 postpaid 
from: 
Bantam Books, Inc., 
A National General Co. 
666 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N.Y, 10019 
Doris Léssing 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The bad time continued. 
{t was expressed in a number of separate 
events, or processes, in this of that part of the world, whose com- 
mon quality was horror — anda 
senseless horror. To listen, to 
read, to watch the news of any one of these events was to submit 
oneself to incredulity: 
this barbarism, this savagery, was simply not 
possible. And, everywhere inthis country, in the world, people like 
oneself sat reading, looking, watching, in precisely the same condi- 
tion: this is not possible; it can’t be happening; it’s all so monstrous- 
ly silly that | can’t believe it... The war in Korea was at the height 
of its danger for the world, the propaganda on both sides had 
reached a point where no one sensible could believe a word of it, 
and for months it looked as if nothing could stop America using 
“the bomb” there. 
In America the hysteria had grown till that great 
nation looked from outside like a dog driven mad by an infestation 
of fleas, snapping and biting at its own flesh; and a man called Joe 
McCarthy, who had no qualities at all, save one, the capacity to 
terrorise other people, was able to do as he liked. Throughout 
Africa various countries fought in various ways against the white 
man, but in Kenya there was a full-scale war, both sides (as in 
Korea) fighting with a maximum of nastiness and lies. 
This is Dali landscape. I’m plugged in to Dali mind. 
If 1 could draw, 
paint, then I’d paint this, Dali picture. Why does only Dali plug in 
to Dali country? No, Dali and me. 
Therefore Dali and — plenty of 
others. But nurse says, delusions. 
If ignorant, does not think is 
Dali country. 
Thinks: 
That’s a silly picture. If educated, knows, 
thinks: 
| ama copycat. 
Or, that must be a Dali picture | haven’t 
seen? (Perhaps itis.) 
- 
~ 
He couldn‘t have painted so many. Why not? 
Plagiarism. 
(Think about this after when time.) Mark writes 
something. 
Then it’s floating in the air. Someone can plug in. A 
City in the Dessert /s photostatted in the photosphere. 
(Oh, very 
funny. Ha. You only deserve half a laugh for that one.) 
One of them is rather weak, 
And one of them is very meek. 
And one of them is just a horse. 
And one of them is rather coarse. 
One of them would like to strangle. 
Hurt and tear and bite and mangle. 
And one of them is rather crude. 
And one of them is Geos a prude. 
And one of them. 
For God's sake stop, sobbed Martha, Sebi | 
her ears as this awful 
da-da-da-da-da- ground into her eardrums. 
Lying face down, nose in a thick plush of carpet which smelled 
faintly of dust, the sea of sound came down, swallowed her. 
Almost. 
I'm so hot when | get through cooking-a meal it’s more than | can 
do to sit down to it and eat it: 
How was it we were caught? 
e 
His mother sits in a hickory chair with her knees relaxed and her 
bare feet flat to the floor; her dress open and one broken breast 
exposed. Her head is turned a little slantwise and she gazes quietly 
downward past her son’s head into the junctures of the earth, the 
floor, the wall, the sunlight, and the shade. One hand lies long and 
flat along her lap: it is elegantly made of bone and is two sizes too 
large for the keen wrist. With her other hand, and in the cradling 
of her arm and shoulder, she holds the child. His dress has fallen 
aside and he is naked. As he is held, the head huge in scale of his 
body, the small body ineffably relaxed, spilled in a deep curve from 
nape to buttocks, then the knees drawn up a little, the bottom small 
and sharp, and the legs and feet drifted as if under water, he suggests 
the shape of the word siphon. He is nursing. 
His hands are blunder- 
ing at her breast blindly, as if themselves each were a new born 
creature, or as if they were sobbing, ecstatic with love; his mouth is 
intensely absorbed at her nipple as if in rapid kisses, with smail and 
swift sounds of moisture; his eyes are squeezed shut; and now, for 
breath, he draws away, and lets outa sharp short whispered ahh, 
the hands and his eyelids relaxing, and immediately resumes; and in 
all this while, his face is beatific, the face of one at rest in paradise, 
and in all this while her gentle and sober, earnest face is not altered 
out of its deep slantwise gazing: 
his head is now sunken off and 
away, grand and soft as a cloud, his wet mouth flared, his body still 
more profoundly relinquished of itself, and | see how against her 
body he is so many things in one, the child in the melodies of the 
womb, the Madonna’s son, human divinity sunken from the cross 
at rest against his mother, and more beside, for at the heart and 
leverage of that young body, gently, taken in all the pulse of his 
being, the penis is partly erected. 
And Ellen where she rests, in the gigantic light: she, too, is com- 
pletely at peace, this child, the arms squared back, and palms open 
loose against the floor, the floursack on her face; and her knees are 
flexed upward a little and fallen apart, the soles of the feet facing: 
her blown belly swimming its navel, white as flour; and blown full 
broad with slumbering blood into a circle: 
so white all the outward 
flesh, it glows of blue; so dark, the deep hole, a dark red shadow of 
life blood: 
this center and source, for which we have never 
contrived any worthy name, is as if it were breathing, flowering, - 
soundlessly, a snoring silence of flame; it is as if flame were 
breathed forth from it and subtly played about it: and here in this 
breathing and play of flame, a thing so strong, so valiant, so 
unvanquishable, it is without effort, without emotion, | know it 
shall at length outshine the sun. 
A Hall of Mirrors 
Armageddon is ours. We can trudge along, getting by, 
matching facades, half-escaped, and be the very wheels of 
the juggernaut. 
Kill the fuckers, kill them. Them? In an 
Ice 
Age? 
—SB 
Hall of Mirrors 
: 
ATtall 
Robert Stone 
i} 
1967; 352 pp. 
lirrors 
- 
Hahiors Saune 
$0.95 postpaid 
from: 
Fawcett Publications, Inc. 
67 W. 44th St., 
New York, N.Y. 10036 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Marvin looked from face to face and stopped at Rheinhardt. 
““Man,’" he said, ‘‘that wasn’t the California you know. No 
mufflers. No titty—tatty. No ogla bee. No gasoline-smell grease- 
trap taco stand plastic supermarket shit. No fat woman drive ins. 
No polite killer cops. No oregano salesmen. No Northbeach. 
No Southbeach. No Beach Beach. It wasn't like that, man—you 
think it was?”’ 
“No,” Rheinhardt said. ‘It couldn't have been.” 
“It couldn't have been,’’ Marvin said soberly. ‘It could not have 
been. And it was not.” 
‘ 
“It was a California of the mind,”’ the girl said. 
“My God,"’ Bogdanovich said stepping forward in wide-eyed 
astonishment, ‘‘what-a California that would be!’ As they watched, 
he raised his hands to describe a box and held them palms 
facing down. ‘‘Look,” he told them, “that’s your mind, dig? 
And here it’s all gray, it’s all nowhere, it’s just dry and barren and 
terrible trips. But here, dig—at the western end there's a curving 
beach and white surf rolling up on it. And there’s blue and purple 
islands and high cold mountains and forests with a carpet of 
pine needles. And orange juice in the clear desert.’’ 
2 
“There, there, baby. Don’t feel so bad. 
I'll tell you a little story 
make you feel better. See, Lester knows how you all can’t tell one 
black person from another because you couldn't live with yourselves 
and all like that. 
He enjoys that phenomenon very much, you dig it? 
Well, one time. they sent him down a fool like you and he walked 
that cat over a whole floor of his wiggy little hotel interviewing 
different people. All sorts and kinds and shapes of humanity. 
Every 
one of them— man, woman and child— was the same cat. 
It was 
the greatest Big Store trip ever pulled and old Lester did it sheerly 
for the sport.” 
Berry removed his shades and wiped his eyes. 
“Fella’s name was Archie that was all the people. Archie had a lot 
of talent but the day was Lester’s. 
It was too much. That white 
man left with a notebook full of details and a funny feelin’ somewhere 
way down in his head. 
| don’t think it ever really got to him.” 
He was weeping with mirth, waving his shades in Rainey’s face. 
Rainey began to laugh with him. 
“The Big Store,’ Rainey said, twisting his rainhat, nearly doubling 
up. 
“That's it, that’s it,’’ Berry said, gripping Rainey’s shoulder. “Too 
much.” 
zs 
“Too much,” Rainey said. 
) 
It seemed to Rheinhardt that he had elicited a respectful silence 
from the stands; thus encouraged, he went on. 
“The American Way is innocence,’’ Rheinhardt announced. 
“‘In all 
situations we must and shail display an innocence so vast and 
awesome that the entire world will be reduced by it. American 
innocence shall rise in mighty clouds of vapor to the scent of heaven 
and confound the nations! 
“Our legions, patriots, are not like those of the other fellow. We 
are not perverts with rotten brains as the English is. We are not a 
sordid little turd like the French. We are not nuts-like the Kraut. 
We are not strutting maniacs like the gibroney and the greaseball! 
“On the contrary our eyes are the clearest eyes looking out on the 
world today. 
| tell you that before our wide, fixed blue-eyed stare 
the devious councils of the foreign horde are confounded as the 
brazen idolators before enlightened Moses. 
“No matter what they say, Americans, remember this— we're OK! 
Who else can say that? No one. No one else can say— we're OK. 
Only in America can a people say— we're OK. 
| want you all to say 
it with me. 
“We're OK,” Rheinhardt shouted raising his arm to invite 
accompaniment. Someone in the stands was heard to fire a pistol. 
INATTENTION 
But you could see it now. Taking shape. The short side was 
completed, and they were half way across the long front, nailing to 
the seventh post. An enclosure was being made. A wall, the hori- 
zontal one-by-sixes parallel, a perfect shape of empty space between 
them; the upright posts their roots into the ground. There was a 
texture now; the rough lumber like beard-stubble, splintery to the 
touch; there was shape and there was texture and marvelous 
patterned lines and angles at the posts. There was aesthetic going 
on, and cosmic law. It’s measured space, enclosed, D.R. thought. 
It’s a line-upon the earth for the work of meat-production to go on 
behind. They were agents of the fence, its architects and builders; 
they were building fence, setting limits on the space.. The space, 
enclosed, was inside time, it’s two twenty now. 
. . 
“Yeoww! 
Shit!’’ and D.R. dropped his hammer and grabbed his 
thumb and danced around in circles. 
Leonard looked up and grinned as D.R. cussed, 
“Be kinder to yourself,’ said Leonard. “Always pay attention 
to your work.” 
Fiction 
Learning 
