Audubon 
I‘d call this the strongest ecological-call-to-arms publication 
we’ve got. /ts illustrations (both photographs and paintings) 
have visceral impact. 
The articles are thorough and authori- 
tative. Audubon Society is no longer just birds but all life 
and it’s into appreciation as much as protection. 
Like 
National Geographic, it’s healthy just to have around the 
house. | keep thinking of the canary the miners kept for 
warning of poison gas. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Ursula M. Vann] 
Audubon 
Les Line, ed. 
$13 /yr (bi-monthly) 
Student membership $6 (includes magazine subscription) 
from: 
Audubon 
950 Third Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10022 
The fact is, however, that the sportsman’s code of ethics just 
doesn’t exist anymore. And if you don’t believe it, examine 
the facts of a story that broke in The New York Times on 
Sunday, February 7th. And then watch the bang-bang books to 
see if they report this odious episode, complete with names and 
addresses of every hunter involved (which are readily available). 
If they do, perhaps there is some hope for the future of hunting. 
The headline read, “35 Named in Raids on Bighorn Sheep,”’ and 
the story told how rare desert bighorn rams were being slaughtered 
illegally on secret safaris into the Jacumba Mountains east of San 
Diego, California, not far from the Mexican border. 
For fees as high as $3,500 apiece, wealthy sportsmen from across 
the country— from Washington, California, Vermont, Oregon, 
Colorado, I|daho, Pennsylvania, New York, Texas, Oklahoma, 
Missouri, Hawaii, and Canada— were led into these sere hills to 
shoot an animal that has been totally protected in California since 
1872. Three races of the bighorn were slain, and two are on the 
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service list of America’s rare and endangered 
species. 
Their guide, according to state and federal wildlife agents, was a man 
who until recently had been a director (and a charter member) of 
the National Society for the Conservation of Bighorn Sheep, who 
had long been one of the organization’s most ardent workers in 
seeking better food and water supplies for this vanishing species, 
who for years had aided the California Department of Fish and 
Game on its annual bighorn census— and thus knew all of the rams’ 
haunts. 
And he not only Jed the expeditions, but he mounted the trophies 
at his own taxidermist shop. A raid there uncovered 31 skulls of 
bighorns, plus hides, capes, and one fully mounted ram. 
Forty 
more ram heads from the Jacumba herd have’ been seized by 
federal wildlife agents in hunters’ trophy rooms in thirteen states 
and Canada. 
The take? Thousands and thousands of dollars over a period of 
three years. 
Smithsonian 
The good old Smithsonian Institution has a new magazine, 
similar to Natural History, p/us more Americana. Some 
very original articles. 
: 
Smithsonian 
Edward K. Thompson, ed. 
$11.50 
/yr (monthly) 
from: 
3 
Smithsonian Institution 
Membership Services 
P.O. Box 2606 
Greenwich, CT 06830 
His chickens provide meat and eggs equally as good. The secret, 
Rodale is eager to reveal, is in their environment. They cluck 
contentedly in a chicken house unusually clean and almost odorless, 
thanks to another organic wrinkle. The chickens roost on a 
dropping pit primed with several layers of soil and rotted cattle 
manure. This culture, rich in bacteria, acts as a deodorizing agent 
on the droppings, which, as they are digested, provide a continuing 
source of loamy compost for gardens and fields. 
Rodale also.”’fertilizes’’ with rocks and tin cans. 
In 16 Howard 
cylinders (1/1000-acre garden plots rimmed with low concrete 
walls), he has experimented with metals as growing aids, coming up 
with surprising results. For instance, he once planted string beans 
in all the cylinders, adding cans to four, wire mesh to another 
four, and cultivating eight plots normally as controls, The metal- 
enriched areas yielded 50 percent more beans—with higher vitamin 
content— 
than the control plots. Rodale borrows from the 
Chinese in growing vegetables among rocks. He bends to pull up 
a clump of parsley. Some of its roots cling to a rock, sucking 
out natural trace minerals, Rodale explains. 
Nature 
Learning 
One Million 
Working familiarity with large numbers is an acquired skill. 
(Until this gig | could never handle a concept like “‘twenty- 
thousand dollars” without sitting down— “How much is 
that in candy bars?” Or, this printing of the 
CATALOG is 
600,000 Ibs of paper; that’s, let’s see, 300 tons of cultural/ 
ecological karma.) 
This well-made book of dots and notes can make formerly 
impossible numbers relatable to each other and to life. 
It’s fun. Godwork. 
—SB 
One Million 
Hendrik Hertzberg 
1970; 211 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
from: 
Simon & Schuster, Inc. 
630 Fifth Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10020 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
955, 396—Dollars earned on costs 
totaling $14,293 by 
Western Electric on a U.S. 
Government contract for 
checking over ‘‘launcher 
loaders’’—a profit of 6600 
per cent. 
955,484—Vehicles recalled by auto- 
mobile manufacturers in 
1968 to check for poten- 
tial safety defects. 
Natural Histery 
The publication of the Natural History Museum in New 
York, this magazine covers wildlife, anthropology, science, 
archaeology, history, conservation, and more. 
It’s always 
good, occasionally outstanding. Excellent bimonthly night 
sky map. 
. 
—SB 
Natural History 
$1 0.00 /yr. (10 issues) 
from: 
: 
The American Museum of Natural History 
Central Park West at 79th Street 
New York, New York 10024 
The reef is perhaps the most complex community in all of nature, 
where plants and animals of infinite variety live together in seeming 
confusion. But even here there is an orderly balance and inter- 
4 
relationship among organisms. The gorgonians provide concealment 
a 
and shelter for fish, both hunter and hunted. Brittle stars and” 
‘ 
feather stars perch in their branches, and certain crabs and shrimps 
| 
make their homes nowhere else. All the species of two important 
families of snails— the egg cowries and the coral snails— prey 
exclusively on the polyps of various corals. But the most fantastic 
relationship of all is the partnership, or symbiosis, between minute 
plant cells and the corals and most other coelenterates, whose living 
tissue they inhabit. These plants, known as zooxanthellae, need 
the carbon dioxide produced by the animal, which in turn utilizes 
the surplus oxygen and food produced by the plants through a 
complex enzyme system, increase the coral’s ability to deposit 
calcium carbonate and so make it possible for them to produce 
the vast framework of the reef. 
smel
mat
ites
gS
P
ie 
South Vietnam approximates the size of New England; the area 
| 
sprayed is larger than Vermont; the area bulldozed almost that of 
4 
Rhode Island. While none of Vietnams’s 43 provinces has escaped, 
| 
some have been attacked herbidically with particular intensity. 
| 
and frequency. Among these are the Rung Sat region in Gia Dinh 
z 
Province southeast of Saigon, Tay Ninh Province (War Zone C), 
=| 
which is northwest of Saigon, and Long Khanh Province (War Zone 
| 
D) northeast of Saigon—. the last previously contained major stands 
of South Vietnam's magnificent virgin tropical forest. 
+ 
{ 
Most forest spraying has been done with a 1:1 mixture of 2,4-D 
and 2,4,5-T, Agent Orange in military terminology; some with a 
a 
4:1 mixture of 2,4-D and picloram, or Agent White; and small 
_ 
7 
amounts with dimethyl arsenic acid, Agent Blue. The use of Agent 
Orange was discontinued in early 1970, largely in favor of Agent 
White. Agent Orange was applied at the rate of 25 pounds of 
active ingredients per acre; Agent White at 8 pounds; and Agent 
Blue at 9. 
This book is a yardstick, a ruler divided into a million parts instead 
of a dozen. The reader may use it to measure any quantity between 
one and one million: 
it will provide a visual equivalent thereof. 
There are 5,000 dots to a page— 10,009 on each double-page spread. : 
The progression is marked, andra little counting and multiplying will 
: 
yield the dot that corresponds to any number one likes. 
' 
Notes aré scattered— 
like mileposts— here and there in the inside 
~ 
margins. Each note corresponds to a number, and the dot signifying 
that number is readily identifiable. 
955,001—960,000 
