A Short Editorial on War 
: 
f 
4 
a 
_ More war toys. 
—SB 
- 
; SSBB BBR Bees eee eee 
~Modern War in Miniature 
We are enclosing a book, Modern War \n Miniature, 
| authored by our son in 1964 when he was nineteen. One 
| Modern War in Miniature 
| of its great uses is at the Wargaming table, a place to learn 
__ and understand war and its horrible effects, without 
experiencing its dreadful waste. 
4 
- 
‘It’s also an excellent reference book and is in the libraries 
at West Point, the Air Force Academ y, ete. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Leota Korns] 
‘ 
MODERN WAR 
1 Perascee 
IN MINIATURE 
$3.95 eo oe 
mtiennee | non 
from: 
Omega Co. 
Dept. E771 
5 
Box 1617 
= 
ce 
CSREES 
seltgieigic 
i 
4 Strategy & Tactics 
el. 
Sees 
ahehy 
_ 
Durango, Colorado 81301 
The judges are very important. They are the only ones who need 
be familiar with the rules. The players only give orders as they 
would in actual combat. They are not allowed to see what is going 
on in the sand table or on the main flight board. They have only 
their maps with the positions of their own troops and 
_ 
planes, and 
they know only what the judge tells them that their troops can see 
- 
or hear. 
In this way the judges are used to isolate the players 
within the confines of the knowledge of their troops. 
_ 
J: THERE IS A SUB-MACHINE GUN FIRING ON THE BOARD. 
_ 
J: Your schmeisser is kicking chunks out of the edge of the 
_- building all around him. . .|t’s hard to say whether you hit him 
or whether he pulled his head back. 
_ 
J; an M-1 HAS FIRED ON THE BOARD. 
J: That rifle round 
farther into the ditc 
it you in the side. 
It knocked you a little 
* you're bleeding from the mouth too. 
J; You can see who did it now. The American is on your left 
_ 
about 12 meters away running at you with his bayonet. 
~ 
P: Can | still move? 
J: Yes, but you are almost unconscious. 
-P: I'm turning around and firing the rest of my schmeisser’s clip 
into him. 
J: THERE ISA SCHMEISSER FIRING ON THE BOARD. 
_ J: He’s coming up fast. Your bullets are jerking around in an arc 
~ towards him as you turn. Seven meters, four meters, one meter. 
I'm afraid you’re dead. 
\f a soldier is advancing on enemy positions and is under fire and 
his person is more than 20% exposed, his base chance of developing 
a transient reaction in any given two-second period is: r = 1/12. 
Of those soldiers who develop transient reactions while advancing, 
30% usually exhibit manic symptoms and 70% disassociative 
_symptoms. 
; 
If a soldier is stationary defending a position and is fired upon and 
is more than 20% exposed, his base chance of developing a transient 
reaction to stress in any given two-second period is: r = 1/12. 
_ Of those soldiers who do develop transient reactions, about 30% 
will exhibit manic symptoms and 70% will develop disassociative 
" symptoms. 
- | was once an umpire at a huge war game at Camp Drum, 
New York, and had a wonderful time. 
_ Unfortunately, this magazine seems to be limited to board 
_ games using historic battles. 
It looks to have a cult reader- 
~ ship related to Sci Fi fandom. But its considerations of 
game design, nostalgia-stroking, and bloodless conflict may 
‘be worth investigation by inventors of whatever’s gonna 
replace war. 
You can be sure that es isn’t. Conflict 
is too interesting. 
—SB 
_ Strategy & Tactics 
$7.50 /year (bi-monthly) 
from: 
S&T 
Box 396 
New York, N. Y. 10009 
| Reinforcement Rate 
g &Time Record Card 
The Hand Game 
To Play you need 
Two Tribes 
place 
score 
in a closed fist 
Two of the bones are marked by wrapping thread 
around them 
‘One Tribe begins by hiding the bones 
The Tribe chooses Two Hiders 
Each hider holds a set of bones, one bone in each 
hand 
their Bones 
playing 
Chanting, Swaying 
Singing 
Music Making 
Having Secrets 
Casting Spells 
bones are hidden 
hidden 
When the Shooter is ready to shoot, he faces the 
Hiders across the Line, shouts HO and makes one 
of the Hand Signals 
displaying the bones 
bones 
bone 
succeeds 
All Germans come from the East. 
threaded bones 
Hiders 
both bones. 
A Place divided by a line 
Each Tribe puts up Stakes, displayed ina Special 
Each Tribe begins with five marker sticks to keep 
There are four Magic Bones 
Each small enough to be concealed comfortably 
Two bones, one marked, one unmarked, forma 
Set. 
The hiders stand in front of their tribe 
Close to the Line, fists closed. 
The other Tribe chooses one Shooter whose task 
is to find the two threaded bones. 
The play takes place when the Hiders have hidden 
and present themselves facing the Line 
Either Tribe may use any strategy they want in 
Except the Line is not to be crossed 
Nor may the Tribes touch each Other 
Common Strategies Include 
The Shooter shows where he feels the threaded 
By using a set of Hand Signals 
There are four possible places the Bones can be 
After the shout, the hiders open their fists 
A shooter can capture no bones, one bone, or two 
ee 
Every time the shooter fails to capture a threaded 
His Tribe loses a marker stick; every time he 
His Tribe wins a threaded bone. 
The shooter shoots, until he has captured both 
Or lost all his Tribe’s marking sticks 
When the shooter has captured both bones 
His Tribe chooses Hiders and hides the bones 
The other Tribe chooses a Shooter 
The clash is not only between the Shooter and 
It is between the Spirits of the Two Tribes. 
A clash is over when the Shooter has captured 
The Bone Game is a gambling game 
A Round is over when one Tribe has taken all 
the Markers. 
A Game is over when one Tribe has Won 
The Agreed upon number of Rounds. 
See ‘Epilog, pe 
page 724 
Chicago-Chicago!’ 
3s 
CHICAGO CHICAGO is very similar to the more familiar wargame 
in that it involves conflict. 
It is unlike a wargame in that it does not 
simulate death. But then there are the “what if. . .%” situations. 
If nothing else it might broaden your understanding of what went on 
at the Democratic Convention in 1968. 
DESIGNERS NOTES 
Probably the most significant “‘battle’’ fought by Americans in 
1968 took place in the streets of Chicago between 25 and 28 August. 
This was conflict, politics waged with more than verbal violence as 
Clauswitz would put it. No one was killed, but the outcome of the 
battle, primarily the ‘Police Riot’ of 28 August (televised nationwide 
that same night), had a profound affect on subsequent American, 
and world, history. The embarassment of the Democratic party 
probably cost them an otherwise tight election. The effect of the 
subsequent Republication administration on the ‘‘state of the 
nation’’ were obviously different than if a Democratic administration 
had continued. The ‘‘What Ifs?’’ are manifold, but one fact stands 
out. The “Battle of Chicago” was a very significant event, 
ranking with the more ‘conventional’ battles of Midway, the 
‘Bulge’ and Stalingrad as turning points in history. Ignore this 
* 
fact and you'll have no one to blame but yourself when you wonder; 
“What the hell’s going on in this country?”... 
Putting such a situation into game format is extremely difficult. 
Eight months were spent on developing this game, longer than 
the time spent on such games as 1914 or JUTLAND. This was 
primarily because a new game system had to be developed. 
Not 
simply because this was not your usual ‘‘pitched battle’’ type 
conflict but more because one side was organized and the other 
wasn’t. 
. .The game is based on the premise that neither side wished 
to avoid a confrontation. 
If either side had, there would have been 
no ‘Battle of Chicago’. As it was, the demonstrators were determined 
to make their point and the police were determined to stop them. 
Thus the game becomes one of strategy, how best each side can 
achieve its goals. The Exposure Index reflects the accumulated 
‘good press’ each side builds up. In the ‘original campaign’ the 
demonstrators built up a lead only late in the ‘game’. What really 
put them in the lead was the police riot on the night of the 28th. 
One important point to keep in mind is that the demonstrator 
player is not actually ‘commanding’ his ‘forces’ in the same manner 
as the police player. Because there was no real organization and 
leadership for the demonstrators the demonstrator player is 
actually deciding which ‘What if?’ situations he would like to see 
played out. ‘What if?’ the demonstrators had done this or that? 
As it was, the ‘demonstrator strategy’ was quite simple: 
they should 
gather their strength in a remote and fairly ‘safe’ area (Lincoln park 
is the best for this) and then move downtown to a more ‘exposed’ 
(although less hospitable) area for the nitty-gritty ‘confrontation’. 
There are, of course, many possible variations to this basic strategy. 
~ 
All games to stay alive have to teach you something. Some games 
teach a.lot. My three favorites are boffing, volley ball. 
. .and the 
Hand Game, which is a form of mind-war common to nearly all 
the North American Indian tribes. 
| first saw it played between 
the Maidus and Paiutes on a mountainside near Reno. 
The games 
went on for two days and nights, with what seemed like half the 
money.in the county riding on the outcome. 
|I’‘d wake up at 
2am 
and hear the steady pounding stick beat of the Paiutes when they 
were hiding the bones, chanting a dreamsong hiding song that 
sounded like ANy 
day now we’re flying aWA-ay. AN 
flying aWAY wayo maYA HA-ah ts-n-n-n-na-nah haY 
A-ah ts-n-n-n- 
na-nah! The Paiutes played men and women, steady and structured 
and controlled against the lolling drunken Maidu men-only team, 
opposite strategies evenly matched. 
Finally one Paiute woman single- 
handedly defeated the Maidus. No one could guess her. She was 
fantastic, a cool cruel queen of victory. She didn’t hide her face like 
the others; she stared the shooter straight in the eye and crumpled 
him: 
A few years ago | showed the game to Jim & Cynthia Nixon, and 
they showed it to Sim Van der Ryn, who came up with this nice 
set of instructions and illustrations on how to play. You can get 
copies of the poster from Sim at Box 372, Inverness, CA 94937, 
for $1.00. 
—SB 
Oa 
D.R. said, “Well, the thing for you all to do is come up and visit 
me some time. 
It looks like I'll be staying around a while.” 
Mrs. Thornton and Barry both looked a little startled. “Are you 
really?” said Mrs. Thornton. 
, 
“Yep,” said D.R. “i thought | would. A month or two, any- 
how. Maybe even longer.’” 
Mrs. Thornton said, “Well I'll swan. Now that really is news,” 
and turning around again she called out to Mrs. Godsey, “Did you 
hear that?” 
“Hear what, honey?” 
. 
“David said he’s going to live at the Collier place a while. Said 
he was going to stay on up there a month or more.” 
“Oh yes,’" said Mrs. Godsey. “‘Leonard told me that a day or 
two ago.” 
“Well it sure is news to me,” said Mrs. Thornton, and she turned 
to gush about it some more to Barry and D.R. 
But Barry had led D.R. over to the circle of chairs to introduce 
him to the other people in the store. There were two, Mrs. Whitaker, 
who was so shy she could only nod and say hello to D.R., and Mr. 
McClanahan, who was not at all shy, but who was old and could 
barely hear. 
“Do what?” he yelled, cupping his hand to his ear. 
: 
(continued) 
8 
Games 
Learning 
lay now we‘re 
