OK, serious looms. 
The best is Gilmore, but youll have to 
wait 6 months until they catch up with your order. Next 
best is Macomber. Then Lorellyn. A/so check out Harris, 
Newcomb. /f you‘re disciminating and patient and want a 
buy, you'll write to 
Sweden. 
—SB 
Gilmore Looms 
.. Lastly, you are advertising LeClerc Looms, which are not the 
best, merely the most advertised. I am an experienced weaver and 
have woven on most brands. I heartily recommend GILMORE for 
anyone who ts actually interested in weaving, rather than just 
playing-like. 
They are less expensive, better made, and much more 
efficient both for set-up and during weaving. The harness frames 
lft right out for quick heddle changes between weaving projects, a 
unique warp advance system is used, the rising shed is sure and 
versatile, workmanship is unsurpassed. When speed is important 
these features are vitally important. I have an 8-harness 46” very- 
heavy rigid Gilmore ($350) [or compact $315]. LeClerc’s 
comparable model Nilart 8-harness 45” is $457 (!) and inferior. 
Grok on that and send for a brochure: Mr. E. E. Gilmore, Gilmore 
Looms, 1032 North Broadway, Stockton, California 95205. 
Truely, 
Don & Mikal Deese 
Vancouver, B.C. 
Gilmore 
40” 4-harness compact rigid loom, $360.00. 
Delivery in late 1975 and in 1976. Waiting time now close to 
30 months. 
E. E. Gilmore 
1032 North Broadway 
Stockton, CA 95205 
Macomber Ad-a-Harness 
£ 
32” 10 harness 
L. W. Macomber 
166 Essex Street 
Saugus, Massachusetts 
. 
See Epilog, 
I 
pages 560-563 
Newcomb 
Free Catalog 
: 
45” 4-harness, $230. 
FOB Davenport 
| 
Newcomb Loom Co. 
Davenport, lowa 52808 
Loom shipped crated approximately 
12 weeks after receipt of order. 
[Suggested by Mrs. Terise A. Schaffner] 
Lorellyn 
After shopping 
for a floor loom at a decent price I’ve come to the 
. 
conclusion that making one is the only cheap way out. However, an 
alternative might be a product of Lorellyn Weavers who are located 
near Grass Valley, California. Mr. Crandall makes a quality loom at 
about half the price of many others I looked at. He is a good conver- 
sationalist and loves to answer weaving problem questions if you 
drop in. Go pick up your loom and learn a lot. Crandall has been 
into weaving for way over 30 years. 
14 inch, two-harness table model 
.20 inch, four harness floor model 
No longer available 
$70.00 (stained dark), 
$75.00 (natural finish) 
$90.00 (stained dark). 
$95.00 (natural wood) 
30 inch, four harness floor model 
Prices are F.O.B. Ghicago Park, California. Crating charges run 
$5.50 to $6.00. 
Free brochure: 
Lorellyn Weavers 
Box 56 
j 
Chicago Park, CA 95712 
Kam 
Nevada City, CA 
Looms From Sweden 
These are fine looms that are cheaper than equivalent looms on this 
continent. Cheaper, including shipping and customs (there seems to 
be no tariff catagory applied directly to looms so persuade customs 
officer to classify it as a sewing machine which is the lowest rate con- 
ceivably applicable. If he’s nice he'll do it automatically). Not only 
does this firm offer good quality equipment:——these looms are 
built in more or less the traditional swedish loom design (weaving 
having been long a prime activity in Sweden); and with the high 
degree of wood craftmanship Sweden is noted for (in case you didn’t 
know, Sweden is noted for wood craftsmanship, along with all else) 
Therefore they are damned good to look at & just have sit around 
when not being worked upon (maximum wood/minimum metal). 
Also available are the standard weaving accessories: warping racks, 
etc. and spinning wheels and tapestry looms. Profusely illustrated 
catalog available——specify English suppliment or know Swedish. 
Glim&kra Vavstols Fabriken 
Glim8kra 
Sweden 
Carole Beadle says an absolutely prime source of all manner 
of Swedish weaving equipment is: 
Gunnar Andersson 
Va vskedsverkstad 
792 00 Mora 
Sweden 
Catalog $2.00 
Cash or Check 
P.O. Box 831 
Exclusive U.S. Distributor 
Berga Ullman, Inc. 
Ossining, N.Y. 10562 
Mainland Cottage Crafts 
I was dismayed to read in your March supplement about the unhappy 
experience of Karl Smiley in his search for a loom; and I thought 
some information about a loom designed and made in Vancouver 
might be of help to him and some of your other readers. 
The maker 
of the loom is H.C. Harris, of North Vancouver, B.C., Canada, and 
the looms can be ordered from Handcraft House. 110 West Esblanade, 
North Vancouver. The table model, 22 inch, 4 harness, sells for $78.00. 
Anyone living out of Vancouver would have to add shipping costs 
which I have been advised would not exceed $10.00, and persons living 
in the U.S.A. would have to find out about customs, but even with 
; 
these added costs the loom is a bargain, sturdy, attractive and well 
designed. 
Jean-Mallinson 
West Vancouver, B.C. 
4G 
N%, ses 
TERMINAL 
As D.R. came out of the men’s room he was flashing on the 
word terminal. T—E—R—M—I—N—A-L. 
| am ina terminal. The 
end of a line. Three vowels, an e, ani and ana. And three syllables, 
three very neat and pungent syllables each with a vowel nestled 
in its middle like a jewel. How balanced. How very balanced is 
the word terminal, in content as well as form. Ata terminal 
people arrive and depart, they begin new journeys even as they are 
ending old ones. Both things happen at a terminal, it goes both 
ways. 
It’sJike calling graduation commencement. Commencing 
as you end. Indeed, because you end. Like living because you die. 
__ 
That's a very religious idea. Bus terminals are very religious places. 
Look at this room. A waiting room. People gathering in off the 
streets to wait together for the next thing in their lives. A place 
to come and wait. Waiting as a form of worship, sitting in these 
pews. Estelle is there in a pew. She could very well be praying. 
Praying and waiting, waiting and praying, how balanced, how even. 
1 wonder if she'll like my outfit. 
“How do you like my outfit?” D.R. asked Estelle. 
He had come up from her blind side, down the lane between 
the rows of pews, and his voice startled her and made her jump. 
She looked around at him, and smiled. But it was a feeble smile. 
Estelle seemed confused. Then D.R. noticed there were tears in 
her eyes. He sat down and put his arm around her and asked her 
what was wrong. 
Estelle shrugged his arm away. "Nothing’s wrong,” she said. 
“But you're crying.” 
“tm not crying,” said Estelle. 
“But you are, honey. 
| see the tears in your eyes.” 
“Please don’t say I’m crying when I’m not,” said Estelle. 
“"1’'m all right.” 
"But honey...” 
“Oh!” Estelle exclaimed angrily. And she got to her feet and 
moved several seats away. 
D.R. followed her and tried to put his arm around her again. 
“Estelle, something’s wrong...” 
, 
i 
“You're hassling 
me is what’s wrong!” Estelle turned to look 
D.R. in the face then, and when she did the tears spilled over and 
she really began to cry. She looked awfully sad to D.R. then, quite 
weak and helpless and worn down, and he wanted more than ever 
to take her in his arms. But the same pleading that had been in 
her voice was in her eyes now. She truly wanted to be left alone. 
D.R. leaned back in his seat and gazed around the room. A minute 
or two later he leaned over and whispered that he would be right 
back. Then he got up and walked-to the row of telephones by 
the wall on the far side of the room. 
Looms 
Craft 
