The Organic Gardening Books 
When | first started gardening three seasons ago, | considered 
How to Grow Vegetables and Fruits by the Organic Method 
as the first and last word on raising your own food. And / 
still believe that if you intend to own only one gardening 
book, that’s the one to have. In addition to all the facts you 
need about soil, compost, mulch, and most domestic fruits 
and vegetables grown in North America, the book contains 
beautiful statements by individual gardeners, and by the 
editors themselves, that add up to an eloquent testimony 
in behalf of the organic idea. 
It is these statements, these 
images of gardeners as people trying to make their very 
lives organic, that gives the book its strength and true 
distinction. 
It’s a book to turn a person on to the organic 
idea in the first place, and then go on to show him in 
precise detail ways to put that idea into practice. 
The 
book is an indispensable guide for the beginning organic 
gardener. 
The thing | have discovered through further reading and 
continued gardening, however,.is that, as good as it is, 
How to Grow Vegetables and Fruits /s neither the first 
or the last word on the subject. 
There’s a new book out 
now called Grow Your Own, by Jeanie Darlington, that 
to my mind comes closer to being the first word. And 
two other sources, The Encyclopedia of Organic Gardening 
and all of Ruth Stout’s work in general, strike me as being 
closer to final statements. 
All | mean by “first” and “last” is that Grow 
XY our Own 
is for gardeners who are absolutely just beginning, and 
not only beginning, but beginning in a city at that, right 
up there on the very front lines where conditions come 
closest to impossible; while the other sources | mentioned 
are for people who have had gardening experience and 
are out to improve upon, rather than discover, their 
individual methods. 
Grow Your Own /s by a young Berkeley, California woman 
who did the whole organic trip in a plot ten feet by ten 
feet outside her home, paid close attention to what was 
going on, did careful homework, and then turned it all 
into a lovely little paperback book. 
/t’s an extremely per- 
sonal book, sort of like a letter to close friends, charming 
and informational.. 
(Of ladybugs, Jeanie says: “Imagine 
Volkswagens humping. 
That’s what ladybugs look like 
when they mate”). The first audience for Grow Your Own 
is other beginning gardeners in the San Francisco Bay region, 
because much of the information on soil, weather and 
— 
sources of organic supplies are of a local nature. 
But it is 
by no means a purely “local” book. 
It’s 
acommunity 
book, but the community Jeanie is speaking to, and for, 
is scattered everywhere, and geography 
will not greatly 
diminish the book’s practical usefulness. As the book 
serves the community with facts, it also helps create 
it in spirit. 
It establishes Jeanie as a kind of hero, in that 
by effort she has gained the experience of a professional 
without sacrificing the joyous spirit of the amateur. She’s 
a freak, but she’s a competent freak, and competent freaks 
just may be the most important people in the entire culture 
at this nervous point in its development. Grow Your Own 
is a solid achievement that everybody in the community 
can not only benefit from, but fee! proud of. 
A lot of experienced gardeners find the Encyclopedia of 
Organic Gardening more usefu/ than How to Grow Vegetables 
and Fruits, and this is understandable. 
Once you‘re-deep into 
gardening, past the point of needing to be convinced and 
wanting only to get on with the work at hand, the Encyclo- 
pedia does stand as a handier, more efficient tool. There’s 
no table of contents. 
The subjects are not laid out in cate- 
gories. 
It’s all there in alphabetical order, crabapple followed 
by crabgrass; tobacco followed by tomato; lima beans, lime, 
See Epilog, pages 500-503 
Oe Your On eD. 
Grow Your Own 
Jeanie Darlington 
1970; 87 pp. 
$1 75 
postpaid 
Hammingbied 
in. the Pineapple 
from: 
J 
og 
Bookworks 
c/o Random House 
Westminster, Maryland 21157 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Organic Gardening 
Land Use 
lime tree, limonium, dieie and linden. 
Virtually any 
question you’d.like to ask a master gardener i: 
is anticipated 
and answered here, and beyond that, a lot of questions 
that wouldn’t have Occurred to you are asked on your 
behalf and then answered. 
You wind up with a /ot of 
accidental knowledge, browsing in this volume, and that’s 
always fun and frequently immediately useful. / can best 
sum up my 
feelings about the Encyclopedia by simply 
saying that after three seasons as a gardener, |’m about 
to buy a copy, instead of borrowing any more, out of 
an impulse to acquire literature on gardening to match my 
own level of competence and curiosity. 
/f you were to chart a course from Grow Your Own, through 
How to Grow Vegetables and Fruits, on into the Encyclopedia, 
youd wind up, of course, in Ruth Stout’s garden watching 
her ignore practically everything you just learned from al! 
those books as she grows stuff twice as good and ten times 
as easily as you do. Well, not really ignoring it. Just seeming 
to, in the same way that your grandmother ignores the 
printed recipe as she sort of unconsciously mixes a lot of 
stuff together and throws /t in a coal stove oven to make the 
best Sunday dinner you ever sat down to. Ruth Stout is a 
master gardener who’s been refining her procedures for 
decades now. She’s sort of like an elderly Zen priest, an old 
roshi who after years of work and study has distilled a large 
burden of “knowledge” into a single gem of wisdom which 
he renders in a single haiku. Just at the point that / felt 
like | was really catching on to making compost and feeling 
kind of proud, | found out that Mrs. Stout doesn’t foo/ 
with compost anymore. 
Too much trouble. Doesn’t fool 
with tools much either. Doesn’t fool with anything much, 
actually, except mulch. Just spreads a lot of fay around, 
plants by poking a hole in the ground with her finger, and 
when it is time, goes out and picks the produce and eats 
it. I’m confident that if | were to do everything in my 
garden that she does in hers, mine would still fail while 
hers would flourish, simply because I’m too young and 
foolish to get along without some rules, 
/t’s the difference 
between wisdom and knowledge, between having correct 
information and knowing the truth. 
|’1l be needing “the 
facts” for a long time to come, but Mrs. Stout assimilated 
all of that long ago. She just... does it, and her accounts 
of doing it are among the very best statements on organic 
gardening that you're likely to come across. 
The thing to remember about organic gardening is that it’s 
a movement, a national energy that since its beginnings 
early in the 1940's has grown into a force so potent by 
now that it contains serious political implications. 
The 
books | have mentioned are landmark documents. But 
more central to organic gardening as a movement is a 
monthly magazine published by the same Rodales who 
brought out the Encyclopedia and How to Grow Vegetables 
and Fruits, ca//ed Organic Gardening and Farming. /t has 
occurred to me that if | were a dictator determined to 
control the national press, Organic Gardening wou/d be 
— 
the first publication I’d squash, becausevit is the most 
subversive. 
The whole organic movement is exquisitely 
subversive. 
| believe that organic gardeners are in the 
forefront of a serious effort to save the world by changing 
man’s orientation to it, to move away from the collective, 
centrist, super-industrial state, toward a simpler, realer 
one-to-one relationship with the earth itself. Most of the 
current talk about “ecology” in America is simply the 
noise that accompanies all fads. 
/t’s obviously doomed to 
go the way of hula-hoops and the fifty-mile hike. 
The 
thing | like to remember is that even when all the froth 
has blown away, and the rhetoric of pop-ecology has 
drifted off to join the other forms of pollution in the sky, 
the gardeners are going to still be gardening. 
Theyre 
going to quietly go on composting and tilling and planting, 
and then reaping all the good things they have sown. 
Chemical fertilizers 
put your soil on a speed trip. The normal 
component balance of the soil is disturbed by the availability of 
more plant food than can be accepted. 
For a short time, every- 
thing that is living in the soil gets pushed way beyond its.normal 
rhythm of life and of course the humus stores are depleted. A 
chemically treated soil is almost devoid of soil bacteria and 
earthworms. The structural strength of the soil is lost, and hard- 
pans form that make it hard for water to penetrate deeply. This 
causes dust storm and erosion problems. 
A forest is an ideal example of good soil structure. The leaves, 
twigs, and everything else that falls to the ground, act as a mulch 
and gradually decay, leaving a spongy rich.layer of humus just 
below the surface. 
It is well balanced in all the nutrients necessary 
to the soil below and to all the living things in it. All the reserves 
are there mainly in an insoluble form, and they are gradually 
released by the action of the weather, the bacteria, the earthworms, 
and all the other micro-organisms in the soil. 
Birds are good friends to the organic gardener. 
If you feed them 
seed this winter, they’ll stick around and eat their share of bug 
kingdom baddies next summer. 
oe 
Sweet Peas. The climbing variety, 5-7 feet, is great for hiding a 
wall or making a screen. Use trellis netting. 
Nasturtiums. 
Great for hot, dry, poor soil areas. The leaves, which 
are peppery and high in Vitamin C, taste great in salads or cream 
cheese sandwiches. The flowers are good to eat too, and the green 
seed pods can be pickled in vinegar with a touch of mace, allspice, 
1 clove and salt. They resemble capers. 
[Reviewed by Gurney Norman] 
The Basic Book of Organic Gardening 
For $1.95 get Rodale’s basics. 
The Basic Book of Sak Gardening 
| 
Robert Rodale, ed. 
1971; 377 pp. 
$1 95 postpaid 
from: 
Ballantine Books, Inc. 
101 Fifth Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
1: 
Perennial crops such as asparagus, strawberries, and 
=~ 
rhubarb should be located at one side of the garden. 
25 
Tall-growing crops, such as corn, must be kept away from 
small crops like beets and carrots to avoid shading. 
3. 
Provide for succession crops——a fall garden, small fruits, 
and overwintered crops to mature early in the spring. 
In this way, space for spring crops which will be harvested 
early, may be used again for later crops. Examples: tomatoes 
after radishes; cucumbers after spinach. 
we ee
haitind
4. 
‘Early planted, fast-growing, quick-maturing crops should 
~ 
be grouped together. Examples: 
radishes, loca: early 
ri 
cabbage, scatlions, etc. 
: 
- 
| 
5: 
Provide plenty of vegetables-for canning, freezing, and 
| 
storing. 
| 
6. 
Do not overplant new varieties, tecabies which the family. - 
does not like, or too much of any one vegetable at one time. 
ds 
Rows should follow across the slope (on the contour) i 
in 
a idly. 
areas. 
8. 
Make sure the plan provides the best spacing between rows 
for the method of cultivation that you intend ton use (hand, 
tractor, horse). 
9. 
Run-rows north and south if possible to prevent plants from 
shading one another. 
10. 
Long rows save time in care and cultivation.. Several crops 
may be planted in the same row if the distance between rows 
i 
e 
, 
s the same 
a 
Where to Order Natural Controls 
Ladybugs 
Bio-Control Company 
" 
‘ 
Route 2, Box 2397 
aaah 
Auburn, California 95603 
L. E. Schnoor 
Rough & Ready, California 95975 
Praying Mantises 
Eastern Biological Con. Co. 
Route 5, Box 379 
Jackson, New Jersey 08527 
Gothard, Inc. 
P.O. Box 332 
Canutillo, Texas 79835 
Robert Robbins 
424 N. Courtland 
East Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania 18301 
Lacewings (Aphid lions) and Trichogramma Wasps 
Vitova Insectary, Inc. 
P:0>Box475 
Rialto, California 92376 
Trik-O (Trade name for Trichogramma) 
Gothard, Inc. 
P.O. Box 370 
F 
Canutillo, Texas 78935 
Milky Spore Disease 
Doom 
Fairfax Biological Laboratory 
Clinton Corners, New York 12514 
Bacillus Thuringiensis Disease 
Thuricide 
International Minerals & Chemical Corp. 
Crop Aid Products Dept. 
5401 Old Orchard Rd. 
Skokie, Illinois 60076 
Biotrol 
Kobes Dist. Co. 
Orange City, lowa 51041 
The first step in pest control is 
to have healthy plants growing 
in fertile soil that is rich in organic 
matter: Then they are more resistant 
to virus and to insect invasion. 
Step Two: Restore the balance of 
nature. The reason there are so many 
aphids in relation to other bugs, 
is that DDT has wiped out all their 
predators. So encourage and import 
predators into your garden. Lady- 
bugs, praying mantids, ichnéumon 
flies, lacewing flies, toads, lizards 
and birds all like to eat a wide variety 
of insects. 
Step three: Outwit the insects. Here’s 
where your ingenuity comes into a 
action. Companionate planting 
is the first thing to consider. 
The idea is that certain smelly flowers 
and herbs repel insects when planted 
next to susceptible plants. The 
flowers: marigold, calendula, 
nasturtium, geranium and chrysan- 
themum. The herbs: tansy, wormwood 
chives, Onions, garlic, sage, savory, 
coriander and hemp. 
, 
Chicken wine peter fr 
Tomates 
