+ 
‘Stock Letter No. 1 
My wife, unborn child and | are looking for 
a place to get back to God. We have looked 
at what is offered by U.S. and Canadian 
society and don’t feel it has what we are 
looking for. | went two quarters at the U. 
of Wash. and from my own experience plus 
talking to others don’t feel that a formal 
education is what I’m seeking. Work is 
fine, but only when constructive and 
meaningful; jobs that are these are few. 
What we are looking for is acommunal farm 
that could use two healthy human beings. 
(almost 3) 
What we have to offer is youth (both 19), a 
will to learn and grow and faith. 
Our financial situation is quite good as | am 
from an uppermiddle class background. 
We have been vegetarians for more than a 
year now and believe in the organic way. 
If you can help us in any way we shall be 
eternally grateful. 
Love and Peace, 
| 
Jim and Penny Kelso 
Seattle, Washington 
'TIS NOT BY 
Stock Answer No. 1 
All the communes are crowded and seldom 
can use newcomers unless they have money 
to dispense or unusual pratical skills. 
Community is a matter of making, not finding. 
Start your own, 
Whole Earth Catalog 
Stock Letter No. 2 
Gentlemen. 
| am a graduate student at the University of 
California, Davis, and am working on a 
project involving “Intentional Community 
Organization.’” After looking at the Spring 
1969 edition of the Whole Earth Catalog, 
| realized that you might be able to assist 
me. At present, | am trying to compile a 
list of communes, collectives, hip colonies, 
and other forms of communal organizations 
in the northern California area. The list will 
serve as a population from which a sample 
will be selected to be used in a study of child 
rearing and socialization. 
brown sugar 
honey 
~The Commune Lie 
SHALT FIND 
THY “/SCOM/J 
non-instant powdered milk 
‘ 
don’t waste money on fucking peanut butter 
One reason we promote communes is that there’s no better 
place to make all the wishful mistakes, to get your nose 
rubbed in your fondest fantasies. (Sometimes a mistake 
works, that’s gravy, and an obligation. 
The CATALOG was 
a mistake that worked.) Everybody has his own version of 
The Commune Lie, for example: 
We’/I let other people take care of us. 
We'll let God take care of us. 
Free lunch. 
(Robert Heinlein) 
The Tragedy of the Commons (Garret Hardin) 
We'll all be honest. 
; 
We'll all be selfless. 
No rules. 
Possessions are bad. Privacy is bad. Money is bad. 
We’ve got the answer. 
All lovely pitiful lies, and so, surely, is their denial. Do you 
know of any better, more rewarding labyrinth? And specu- 
lation won’t get you around even the first turn. 
Here are artifacts recovered from the midden heaps of the 
commune summer at Ken Kesey‘s farm, from the Hog 
Farm’s first year in New Mexico, and from WHOLE EARTH 
correspondance. 
—SB 
Food food food food 
crisis crisis crisis crisis 
The people in the kitchen, hard-ass Paula in particular, say 
there just isnt any food worth mentioning for supper or any 
other meal in sight. Here is what we need quick: 
GEORGE’S ART OBJECT 
salad vegetables except lettuc 
cooking vegetables 
’ 
floor. Good Hunting, George. 
Course this food thing is really a drag, y‘know, takes money, 
takes labor to cook it, why down at the store we can get 
pop-top lunch for $1.25 per six cans. The little babies like 
The geographic area which | am interested in 
is northern California and western Nevada 
bounded on the south by Big Sur and Fresno. 
| am specifically concerned with the items 
listed on the attached sheet, but any 
information or leads you might be able to 
supply would be of great benefit. 
If, at 
a later date, any of my findings become 
pertinent'to your interests, | would be happy 
to share them. 
| think the Whole Earth Catalog is relevant 
and interesting. | hope you'll be able-to 
keep publishing it for a long time 
Your time and efforts are very much 
appreciated. 
: 
Peace, 
Frank Nicassio 
Davis, California 
Stock Answer No, 2 
Communes aren’t too interested in being 
studied, unless you feel like paying them. 
Whole Earth Catalog 
Comment 
The Whole Earth Catalog is staying out of lateral commun- 
ications among communities, yearning communers, 
social 
scientists, reporters, etc. for two reasons, 
(1) the job is 
massive; we can’t handle it, (2) communities are beleagur- 
ed enough without us adding to the load. 
: 
—SB 
CLAP CLAP FOR PATTICLAPE 
Patticake had her strange bladder pain diagnosed in 
town the other day. Yes, Yes, we have genuine 
gonorrhea right here on the farm. It was a riot 
watching her trying to get up the gumption to tell 
_ George that she had given it to him the night before. 
Ha Ha: 
We don’t want a commune. We want a community. 
Ken Babbs 1969 
Think Dirty——— 
Things grow in dirt 
; 
The underground movement is necessary if 
you’re going to plant stuff and grow it. 
it in their bottles, and we can all cook those 200 pounds of 
brown rice in it, mmmmgood. 
The Mormons were saved by Seagulls, 
~~ 
~~ ~~ 
~ 
FREEDOM RINGS LOUD 
(in our poor ears) 
Discipline on The Hog Farm 
George is way out in front in the All Asshole Farm 
Aesthetic Cotillion for the day: He discovered a 
bedpan with a turd floating in it on the bathroom 
People think love is an emotion. Love is good sense. 
Ken Kesey 1967 
ALL ASSHOLE FARM EXPOSE 
| hope that this week is the Farm’s lowest point for the summer, be- 
cause if it gets any lower | don’t have a decent place to live. Dear 
reader, if | should mention some detail of fucked-up-ed-ness, you 
can match me with some detail you have observed; so don’t fight 
me, you are as uncomfortable and as displeased as me. 
But, you 
may not feel as bad about this place as | do: you may have just 
arrived and found a slightly sloppy free summer camp, where you 
can fuck without your mother finding out, there are no annoying 
counselors and no schedule. 
But I think of this as my (at-least) temporary home. And | like 
my home to be clear of broken glass and papers, my tools and supplies 
put away, | like to keep track of my guests, take care of my animals, 
keep my clothes hung up out of the way, and keep the equipment 
running, 
But this farm is far from that. When you see a chocolate milk 
carton lying in the driveway, how long has it been there? And 
how many people have passed it thinking nothing, seeing nothing 
or else maybe saying ‘’That’s the twenty-ninth chocolate milk 
carton | seen today, if | picked them up, that’s all I'd be doing all day. 
Our average Farmer (Asshole) says to himself: 
“I’m here visiting 
(for a day, a week, a month or a year) and !’m not really a part of 
this farm, just a guest, so | can’t do anything really effective about 
the Farm’s condition.” 
But, who are the non-guests, the permanent 
residents? Well, Page & Nadine, Gordon & Nancy. The rest of you 
can’t be expected to take initiatives because you’re not going to be 
here long. But while you are here you are living in shit, slop, cold, 
hunger, and bedlam. 
| gues you’ll stay as long as you can stand it, 
I'd like to see a group of 10 or so people cooperating, taking 
initiatives, picking up the chocolate milk carton, putting away food 
that’s out, cleaning up, helping other people, fixing thing, closing 
the gates, taking care of the equipment. 
| believe the key to the. 
problem is: STABILITY LEADS TO A FEELING OF COMMUNITY. 
We have very little sense of community here, except in desperate 
moments when everybody musthelp. Most of the time, most of us 
are “pigs at the trough”’: 
if you don’t eat fast, your sty-mate will 
get more than you do. And if you don’t avoid chores, you will be 
doing more work than your sty-mate. | believe everyone who is 
here for more than a few days falls into this-pattern: the place 
just causes it. Because there is no sense of community, each 
person is “right” in grabbing the goodies and avoiding the work. 
This is, maybe, DECAY. 
This is social decay: where the natural forces of the family (help- 
ing, loving, working together) are driven out by selfishness and the 
fear of working on a bad project. 
| believe that the decay, the pigs-at-the-trough feeling, 
is caused 
by the INSTABILITY. When a stable group of ten lives together 
for weeks, natural forces work for community feeling. When the 
Farm is more than 20% tourists, when the family feeling is broken up 
every day or two by departures and arrivals, | see no hope. 
SO YOU WANTA FUCK THE EARTH? 
(an editorial) 
Got your rocks off yet, Hippies? 
Had your belly fill of goodies? 
Have you looted your fill? 
If so, take a gawk at the mother lode. 
Messy, ain’t it? 
Yeah, that’s right, man, you been 
Fucking the earth rotten. 
Now clean it up and take care of yours. 
EMMIT’S CONDITION 
David | don’t know if you remember the Godsey family or not, 
but they use to run that little store where the post office was there 
at the mouth of Trace Fork when me and you was kids. Mr. Godsey 
was the postmaster in those days. After he died they give it to 
Mrs. Godsey, and she’s run it and the store ever since, although 
the Lord only knows why Trace Fork would have:a post office, 
they ain’t over three families lives on that creek anymore. 
They've stripped that whole holler and then auger-mined it and 
most of the people that lived there when me and you did’s moved 
away. But, Mrs. Godsey’s there, and it’s her that’s been writing 
me letters about Emmit. She written me twice in the last two 
weeks, and | written her once and sent her our phone number. 
| 
told her to call me collect any time she thinks | need to know some- 
thing about Emmit, and so yesterday she called and said the poor 
old feller’s worse off than ever. She's really a dear woman, Mrs. 
Godsey is. She’s known us | don’t know how many years. She 
was Grandma's age. She remembers when Grandma and Grandad 
first moved to Trace Fork when they was just a young married 
couple. You ought to remember her, David, you use to go in there 
and buy candy from her when you wasn’t any bigger than Debbie. 
Kind of a skinny woman, with the sweetest little voice you ever 
heard. Well, anyway, the poor thing, she’s none too well herself, 
and {| don’t think she’s actually been up to the homeplace to see 
Emmit. But she sends her boy Leonard up, and from what Leonard 
says, Emmit’s so weak now he barely can get out of bed. Said he 
can get up enough to do his cooking, and goes out to feed his 
chickens and his rabbits. Emmit keeps rabbits new Leonard said, 
and manages to feed “em. But said he couldn’t garden, and when 
something goes wrong around the place he can’t fix it, and that 
he’s just going to have to have some help or be moved out of there, 
if he lives at all. 1 told Mrs. Godsey on the phone that we'd try 
to see about helping him someway, but | swan | don’t know of 
a thing any of us can do. He won't leave the place, he’s the 
contrariest old man that ever was. I’m worried sick about him, 
and Doyle is too. Mrs. Godsey’s letters are in the house. After 
supper I'll get ‘em out and let you read ‘em. 
The Commune Lie 
Community 
