editation in Action 
The Venerable Trungpa Rinpoche was some kind of a high 
abbot over a district of monasteries in Tibet, s6 you can 
| expect a book of his talks to be some kind of esoteric and 
7 
too profound for us surface-dwellers. 
24 
_ If it’s esoteric, he’s 
S cleverly hidden that fact, and surface 
ier seen so much good sense in so little space on 1 the 
_ subject of meditation. Asa book, it trends toward the 
very goal: singularity. 
ae 
r 
—SB 
cf 
See Epilog, 
f Meditation i in Action 
page Jas 
| Chogyam Trungpa 
‘Cutting 
_ 1969; 74 pp. 
oo : 
| $2.25 postpaid 
Materialism” 
| from: 
| Shambhala Publications Inc. 
|| 2045 Francisco Street 
|| Berkeley, CA 94709 
MEDITATION IN ACTION 
Chogyam Trungpa 
| or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
_ The point is that whatever one is trying to learn, it is necessary to 
have first hand experience, rather than learning from books or from 
| teachers or by merely conforming to an already established pattern. 
| That is what he found, and in that sense Buddha was a great revolu- 
| 
tionary in his way of thinking. He even denied the existence of 
|| Brahma, or God, the Creator of the world. He determined to accept 
| nothing which he had not first discovered for himself. 
|| ...lHe developed the creative side of revolution, which is not 
| 
trying to get help from anyone else, but finding out for oneself. 
|| Buddhism is perhaps the only religion which is not based on the 
revelation of God nor on faith and devotion to God or gods of any 
_ kind, This does not mean that Buddha was an atheist or a heretic. 
_ 
He never argued theological or philosophical doctrines at all. He 
went straight to the heart of the matter, namely, how to see the 
_Truth. He never wasted time in vain speculation. 
| 
a 
e 
_ If we are meditating at home and we happen to live in the middle 
of the High Street, we cannot stop the traffic just oecause we want 
peace and quiet. But we can stop ourselves, we can accept the 
noise. The noise also contains silence. We must put ourselves into 
it and expect nothing from outside, just as Buddha did. And we 
must accept whatever situation arises.. As long as we never retreat 
from the situation, it will always present itself as a vehicle and we 
will be able to make use of it. As it is said in the Scriptures, ‘’The 
Dharma is good at the beginning, the Dharma is good in the middle 
and the Dharma is good at the end." 
In other words the Dharma 
never becomes out-of-date, since fundamentally the situation is 
always the same. 
The whole point is to cultivate the acceptance of everything, so one 
should not discriminate or become involved in any kind of struggle. 
_ That is the basic meditation technique, and it is quite simple and 
direct. There should be no deliberate effort, no attempt to control 
and no attempt to be peaceful. This is why breathing is used. 
It is 
easy to feel the breathing, and one has no need to be self-conscious 
or to try and do anything. The breathing is simply available and 
‘one should just feel that. That is the reason why technique is 
important to start with. This is the primary way of starting, but 
_ 
it generally continues and develops in its own way. One sometimes 
finds oneself doing it slightly differently from when one first 
started, quite spontaneously. This is not classified as an advanced 
technique or a beginner’s technique.: 
|t. simply grows and develops 
gradually. 
, 
e 
« 
_ Where there is an external person, a higher Being, or the concept of 
something which is separate from oneself, then we tend to think 
that because there is something outside there must be something 
here as well. The external phenomenon sometimes becomes such 
an overwhelming thing and seems to have all sorts of seductive 
Or aggressive qualities, so we erect a kind of defence mechanism 
against it, failing to see that that is itself a continuity of the 
- external thing. We try to segregate ourselves from the external, 
and this cfeates a kind of gigantic bubble in us which consists of 
nothing but air and water or, in this case, fear and the reflection 
_ 
of the external thing. So this huge bubble prevents any fresh 
air from coming in, and that is ‘‘!"’——the Ego. So in that 
| sense there is the existence of Ego, but it is in fact illusory. 
i 
e@ 
- Q. For meditation, would a student have to rid himself of Ego before 
_-he started, or would this come naturally as he is studying? 
“ 
F 
A. This comes naturally, because you can’t start without Ego. And 
1 _ basically Ego isn't bad. Good and bad doesn’t 
really exist anywhere, 
Fe 
it is only a secondary thing. Ego is, in a sense, a false thing, but it 
isn’t necessarily bad. You have to start with Ego, and use Ego, and 
i 
from there it gradually wears out, like a pair-of shoes. 
But you have 
_ to use it and wear it out thoroughly, so it is not preserved. Other- 
| wise, if you try to push Ego aside and start perfect, you may become 
_ more and more perfect in a rather one-sided way, but the same 
| amount of imperfection is building up on the other side, just as” 
i. 
creating intense light creates intense darkness as well. 
_ Meditation Cushions and Mats 
G Traditionally designed softness for your hard edges. 
— ob 
A Hidden Wholeness 
No book has convinced me so directly that the life of active 
- contemplation can be utterly wholesome. Here are 
indisputable photographs by Merton and by John Howard 
Griffon (remember Black Like Me? The white who dyed 
himself black so he could understand). 
. .photographs and 
some calligraphy by Merton that attest something tough, 
pointed, and very healthy going on here that | don’t 
understand. 
—SB 
A Hidden Wholeness 
Thomas Merton, John Howard Griffin 
af 
1970; 147 pp. 
$15.00 postpaid 
from: 
Houghton Mifflin Co. 
2 Park St. 
Boston, Mass. 02107 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Thomas Merton entered the Cistercian Abbey of Our Lady of 
Gethsemani in Trappist, Kentucky, on December 10, 1941, to 
begin his life as a Trappist monk. 
Twenty-seven years later, to the day, on December 10, 1968, a few 
hours after addressing a religious conference near Bangkok, Thailand 
he died alone in his room from the effects of an accidental electric 
shock received when he touched a fan. 
His religious life formed a singlearc. From the beginning he sought 
to lose himself in God in the silence of Trappist contemplative 
life. Through all the intrusions of his celebrity as a writer and 
prophetic figure, that initial religious passion remained paramount 
and growing. At the end of his life he was in search of deeper silence 
and solitude and more perfect contemplation. 
Zafu $12.50-$15.00. 
Measures 7x12”, available in several colors, 
patterned after traditional Japanese designs. 
Zavuton $12.50-$18.00. 
Futon $27.00-$34.00. 
Measures 30x34” 
Sleeping and Yoaa mat. 
$2.25 postpaid 
On the Psychology of Meditation 
If you're into meditation, but think Science has something 
to offer the world, you’ve probably tried to see what 
scientists have said about it. And been pretty disappointed. 
With few exceptions, they glibly call it “self-hypnosis,” and, 
having said the magic word that exorcises the mysterious, 
forget about it. This book, still in press, is the first scientific 
treatment of meditation that is really good. If you’rea 
meditator and want your world-view expanded this will 
help. 1f you’re a scientist and want your world-view 
expanded, this will do it. 
Claudio Naranjo looks at the multitude of ways of 
meditating and finds some basic dimensions running through 
them. Robert Ornstein looks at meditative practices and 
results from a psychologist’s view and finds similarities 
to some well-known psychological processes that make it 
clearer just how meditation works, even though the ultimate 
question of where it takes you is beyond books. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Charley Tart] 
On the Psychology of Meditation 
Claudio Naranjo, Robert Ornstein 
1971: 320 pp. 
from: 
Viking Press, Inc. 
625 Madison Ave. 
New. York, N.Y. 10022 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
See Epilog, page 742 
“The Psychology of 
Consciousness’ 
Aside from the difficulty arising from the esoteric nature of some 
practices, a fact that makes writing on techniques almost irrelevant, 
in the sphere of meditation that we are discussing, is that the 
effectiveness of any practice seems to depend, more than in another 
case on an extra-technical factor of ‘’personal contagion.” 
The infectious nature of possession by devils throughout history 
is well established, and it is impressive to read documents such as 
those of the epidemic of Loudun, showing how even apparently 
sane priests sent to perform exorcisms became affected by the 
prevalent state.~ 
What is true in regard to unwanted devil possession is apparently as 
true with regard to states that are welcomed and cultivated. Among 
many peoples, trance is a collective phenomenon in which the state 
of the more experienced is believed to facilitate that of the novices. 
Among the Kung bushmen of the Kalahari desert, for instance, 
who understand the possessing entity not as a spirit. but as an 
energy,—originally given to man by God— the energy, also called a 
“medicine”, is now maintained by direct transmission from man to 
man. According to Dr. R. Lee, who has studied their trance dances, 
the practicing curers spend much of their time implanting medicine 
into the bodies of their trainees. 
Recall the phenomenon of habituation. A slight change in the input 
is enough to ‘‘dishabituate’’ and to return the stimutus to awareness. 
Similarly, slightly altering our usual ‘‘automatic’’ behaviors, such as 
tying shoes, driving cars, should return them again into awareness. 
In Yoga itself there is a similar tradition called Karma Yoga. The 
attempt is to treat everyday activities as a sacrament and to give 
them full attention. This exercise performs the same function as 
“right mindedness”, or ‘’self-remembering’’, and perhaps is a less 
extreme version of shikan-taza. 
Most schools within these traditions combine the two major kinds 
of awareness, exercises or meditations, using a half hour or so twice 
a day of the ‘shutting down” meditation and as much as possible 
of the remainder of the day in a form of self-observation. 
That concentrative meditation is a ‘turning off’’ of competing 
activity does seem quite clear. We recall in Anand’s study of Yoga 
meditation that while in meditation the brains of the Yogins did 
not show any response to the external world. Also recall that the 
repetitive stimulation of the ganzfeld and by stabilized images leads 
to a state equivalent to that of no external stimulation at all. The 
repetitive form of meditation involves a trick to turn off the nervous 
system, to turn off awareness of the external environment, to enter 
a state of ‘darkness’, or the “‘void”, or, in our previous metaphor, 
that of turning out the light of the sun. 
foc 
Rice, S 
a 
The rabbits were the central project in Emmit’s scheme, but he 
had other things going too that he had worked at as he had the 
time, and strength. He had a worm pit going by one of the walls 
inside the barn. He'd built it when he first got his rabbits, filled it 
with manure and stocked it with five thousand red worms he'd 
ordered through the mail. A year later there were so many worms 
in it he was scooping them out by the pitch-fork full and planting 
them in the garden rows to go to work on the mulch of shit and 
hay. But as the garden expanded and the rabbit population in- 
creased, Emmit wanted still more worms, and the extension of the 
pit was one of the projects he left unfinished when he died. 
D.R. intended to finish that pit, and perhaps build another one 
along the facing wall. 
It would not be possible to breed too many worms for the work 
he had in mind. 
___(continued) 
2423 —
Meditation 
Learning 
