Remember— 
Yogurt 
. 
: 
Here it is! The definitive yogurt re- 
cipe, courtesy of me. No special e- 
quipment, no watching the pot for 
hours & fussing about keeping it a 
special temperature—AT ALL. 
Equipment: 
1 large pyrex (or otherwise heat- 
proof) mixing bowl 
Measuring cups, spoons 
Jars to store the yogurt in 
Oven 
Ingredients: 
3 cups instant powdered milk 
% tsp. unflavored gelatin 
1 tbsp. sugar (optional) 
1 large can evaporated milk 
3 tbsp. yogurt 
Water 
Instructions: 
Soften the tsp. unflavored gelatin 
then add boiling water to make 1 
cup. Add 1 tbsp. sugar (this takes 
the ‘‘edge”’ off.) and let the mixture 
cool a bit. 
Preheat the oven to about 2759. 
(250-300° range is O.K.) 
Mix 3 cups instant powdered milk 
with 3 cups water. Add 1 large can 
evaporated milk, 2 more cups tepid 
water, and the gelatin mixture. 
Add 3 tablespoons yogurt and stir 
thoroughly. 
Cover the bowl, put it in the oven, 
and TURN THE OVEN OFF. 
Leave it overnight, or about 8-10 
hours. 
Makes about 2 quarts, and is ‘’fool- 
proof” 
J. Lundquist 
See Epilog, page 592 Making 
Your Own Cheese & Yogurt” 
Applause 
Help!! Please! I found a fantastic and easy yogurt recipe in your 
catalog (not the latest, but the one before that. I have been using 
it for a couple of months, but when I went to look for it last 
night, I couldn’t find it anywhere!! Do you think you could help 
me get another copy? There were two on the same page——the one 
I want used powdered dry skim milk, evaporated milk, gelatin, 
water & I T of sugar. I would really appreciate anything you 
could do to help, as this is what I’ve been giving my husband 
for lunch & it’s the first yogurt he would not only eat but ask 
for. Thank you, thank you. 
Karen Barnes 
N.M. Bch, Fla. 
How to Make Butter and Cheese 
Chr. Hansen’s Laboratory, which sells vegetable-base butter 
coloring,cheese color tablets and cheese rennet tablets, 
have some great illustrated charts on Butter and Cheese 
making. 
Theyre 
all free. We've reproduced the essential steps here. 
Goat 
Husbandry (page 64) has several good recipes for butter and 
cheese using goat’s cheese. 
_SB 
How to Make Butter on the 
Farm Chart 
How to Make Cheese on the Farm Chart 
FREE 
Enclose 10¢ for postage 
from: 
Chr. Hansen’s Laboratories, Inc. 
9015 West Maple Street 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53214 
Kitchen 
Community 
Baking Soda 
For 15 cents, you can buy a humble tool that replaces a 
lot of fancy-priced ones: Arm and Hammer baking soda. 
Potential uses-- 
1) Toothpaste. Mix soda with salt, for the kind of tooth- 
paste oldtime Texas dentists used to say was better than 
storebought. 
2) Acid indigestion tablet substitute. Just take a little soda 
with a glass of water. 
3) Scouring powder. Especially good in refrigerators, 
because it deoderizes. 
4) Sunburn ointment substitute. Spread on paste, of soda 
and water. 
5) Putting out kitchen fires. 
6) Maybe even baking?? 
anonymous, 
Bibble Ledbetter adds: 
For those who still smoke you can put some on your car ash trays 
to absorb the odor and safely snuffs your cigarette out. 
it’s a great refresher when added to your bath. 
Use it when | clean my iron skillets, cutting boards, knives, etc. 
It not only helps to remove baked on foods but it does not leave 
a detergent taste to the equipment like the above that tend to 
absorb odors. 
Plus a pound costs only 21 cents. 
Bibble Ledbetter 
Washington, D.C. 
Safer Than Shell Pest Strips, Easier Than Swatting 
Another suggestion: Fly * Paper. Absolutely non-toxic and 
it works almost as well as pest-strips. The type I use is 
Aeroxon which is made by Aeroxon products, New ‘York, 
N.Y. and which I bought at my local hardware store. 
Tom Davenport 
© 
Delaplane, Va. 
1 Ripen Cream, If Desired 
Butter may be made from either sweet or sour cream, 
both of which should be free from any off flavors. 
Butter made from sweet cream has a mild, creamy 
flavor, But if a more flavorful product is desired, 
allow the cream to ripen at 65-75 degrees F. until 
thick and mildly sour. 
2 Bring Cream to churning temperature 
ln summer: Usually 52-60 degrees F. 
In winter: Usually 58-66 degrees F. 
‘ 
Sweet Cream: Keep cool as possible until just before 
churning. 
: 
Sour Cream: Hold 2 hours at churning temperature. 
Churning Temperature is correct when butter ‘‘comes”’ in 
30-40 minutes. If cream is too cool, churning will 
last too long, and give hard butter. If too warm, churning 
period will be too short for complete churning, and soft, 
greasy butter will result. 
3 Rinse Churn with scalding water; then rinse and chill 
with cold water 
Treat butter ladles, paddies, worker and printer the same 
way and place all but the worker in a pail of cold water 
until needed. 
4 Strain Cream 
into churn 
In order to work efficiently, the churn should be only 
about one-third full, or at least not over one-half 
full. If too full the churning period is prolonged. 
5 Pour Butter Color into cream [sic] 
Measure the amount of Butter Color needed and pour it 
into the middle of the churn, without letting the color 
touch any wooden parts. The quantity needed varies 
with the season, is highest in spring just before cows 
go on pasture when 2-3 teaspoons of ‘‘Dandelion” 
Butter Color per 10 gallons of cream may be needed 
(cream with 20%-30% butterfat). 
6 Close Churn 
and start turning 
Start churn at speed to produce the greatest concussion, 
which can be determined by the sound—about 60 
revolutions per minute for the common barrel type of 
churn. 
; 
Crunchy Granola 
We have not read all of the supplements so we don’t know if you have 
have printed recipes for crunchy granola. |f you haven’t—here is one: 
MIX 
; 
4C __ rolled oats 
: 
1% C -shredded unsweetened coconut 
1C 
wheat germ 
1C 
chopped nuts 
1C 
hulled sunflower seeds 
’C 
sesame seeds 
%C 
flax seed 
»%C 
bran 
1C 
ground roasted soybeans 
HEAT— 
%C ~ oil (soy, sesame or corn) 
%C 
Honey 
7, 
’t 
vanilla 
ADD 
honey-oil mixture to dry ingredients and mix 
(mixture will be very dry) 
SPREAD 
mixture on oiled cookie sheet or jelly roll pan 
(cookie sheet with sides) & bake at 325 degrees 
about 15 min. until light brown. 
All measurements are approximate and it’s nice to improvise with 
ingredients, too. However, you make it, it will be much, much better 
than any commercial varieties. 
| would like to know of good books on vitamins, lecithin, pollen, 
ginseng, jujubes, etc. 
(1 can’t even spell them but am interested to 
know what they do for you.) Everyone | ask explains them alittle 
to esoterically for my plasticized head. 
Thank you. 
; 
. Philip & Elizabeth Schnazerson 
Berkeley, Calif. 
Applause 
Weve been using the Granola recipe sent in by P. & E. Schnazerson. 
It’s been working fine. We’ve made up to 15 lbs at a time (at 35 cents 
to 45 cents per) (to get 15 lbs of granola you have to multiply their 
recipe by 6.) Our next batch will be about 75 lbs because it’s almost 
become a staple in our houses. We may also sellit. 
With anywhere 
from 3 to 6 people mixing, spreading, turning etc. we’ve gotten the 
whole process down to anart. Everyone knows their job. The 
hardest part is cooking because you have to turn it over every 3-5 
minutes. Important!: 
turning 
granola on the cookie sheets (same 
as you’d turn earth) is most important near the end of the 15 minute 
cooking period. So you may wait 5 minutes from when you first 
put it in the oven, then 4 then 3 then 3 again then maybe 1-2. 
People should figure it for themselves, tho, vibration cooking is 
where its at. 
We've been using the Corona Mill with great satisfaction. 
Whole 
wheat kernels (from a local grainery) cost about 4 cents alb. The 
kernels can also be boiled like rice or beans (first soaked overnite, 
tho) for an interesting meal. 
David I. Schuchman 
Grand Rapids, Michigan 
P.S. Flax seeds in recipe should be ground, er chewed very well. 
7 Permit Gas To Escape. 
After a few revolutions, stop churn, bottom up; remove 
cork to permit the escape of gas. Repeat this 2-3 times 
during early stages of churning. 
: 
8 Churn until Butter ““Comes”’ 
Wait for the change in the.sound of the cream, and for 
thick mushy mass to appear on glass in churn. Then 
turn churn several times more, and stop to examine 
butter granules. 
r 
9 Stop Turning when granules are size of wheat grains 
When sound of cream in churn changes watch the 
granules through the glass and stop churning when the 
butter granules are the size of grains of wheat. 
10 Draw Buttermilk 
Let the buttermilk out of the churn through the hole at 
the bottom of the churn. Run through a strainer 
to catch any particles of butter. 
; 
11 Wash Butter 
While the last of the buttermilk is drawing off, prepare 
the wash water: Pure, clean water, twice the quantity 
of the buttermilk, and about the same temperature. 
After all buttermilk is drawn off, replace cork and pour 
one-half the wash water into churn. Replace cover and 
turn churn rapidly about four times. Draw off wash 
water and repeat washing. 
- 12 Salt and Work Butter 
Rinse “‘worker’’ once again with hot and then with 
cold water, leaving worker wet. Weigh butter. Spread 
butter with ladles on worker, in a layer about 2 inches 
thick. Sift salt onto butter—%oz. salt per pound butter, 
or more or less according to taste. Press butter 
(do not rub or smear it) into thin layer, fold into a 
pile and press again. Continue working until salt evenly 
distributed and butter has desirable grain and body. 
!f you do not have a butter worker, you can still doa 
good job by working the butter with your ladles or 
paddles right in the churn or in a large wooden bowl. 
This should be done by gathering the butter into the 
form of a ball, pressing it into a thin layer and then 
repeating this process over and over again until the 
salt and moisture are well worked in. 
