Man Adapting ‘ 
_ The focus of this book is the human individual, what he has 
_ to deal with in this life, and what means he has to do the 
dealing with. Dubos is a superdoctor, so you get a damned 
well-informed medical perspective on questions of environ- 
ment, population, health, nutrition, adaptation, etc. that 
subverts many a popular opinion. 
i 
: 
—SB 
human mind. 
It cannot become reality because man will never be so 
_ perfectly adapted to his environment that his life will not involve 
__ health constitutes a creative fo-ce because, like other ideals, it sets 
goals and helps medical science to chart its course toward them. The 
; hope that disease can be completely eradicated becomes a dangerous 
mirage only when its unattainable character is forgotten. 
It can then 
be compared to a will-o’-the-wisp luring its followers into the swamps 
of unreality. 
In particular, it encourages the illusion that man can 
of life without having to pay for these adaptive changes. The less 
by the unavoidable failures of adaptation to the new environment. 
e 
The paradoxical truth isthat the phenomenal increase in world popu- 
lation during the past 50 years has coincided with great epidemics, 
two world wars, several minor ones, and deep disruptions of social 
_ and economic life everywhere. Furthermore, as is well known, the 
_ 
most destitute and disease-ridden populations of the world are pre- 
cisely the ones that are increasing the fastest. 
The Age of Discontinuity 
‘How come Peter Drucker has so much good sense and 
perspective, and still remains so cheerful? Traditionally 
_ 
considerations such as his—economics, organizations, the 
_ future—turn a prophet’s soul terrible and dark or at least 
partially wiggy. The only other intact floater on this ocean 
| know of is Marshall McLuhan. 
You sense that both of 
_ them have a backyard in their mind that resides somewhere 
else, some time else.- (It would be worth pursuing this. 
How To Think: Big and Stay Sane.) 
_ The Age of Discontinuity takes notice of the remarkable 
continuity of the last 50 years in building on-the 
_ 
technological breakthroughs of the Victorian era. Now, 
__ 
says Drucker, we are in for some hard changes, particularly 
_ around new technologies (of information, materials, oceans, 
megalopolis), global economics, and redistribution of 
responsibility in large organizations. 
—SB 
_ The Phenomenon of Man 
E de Chardin manages to say most of the things many of us are 
rs 
trying to say. He said them in teks Was no-one listening? 
. 
_ The Phenomenon of Man dea/s With evolution—the ascent to 
__ consciousness. The plan of the book is 
Pre-life: 
Life: Thought—three events sketching in the 
past and determining for the future (survival) a single 
and continuing trajectory, the curve of the phenomenon 
of man. 
His aim is to try to see (and to help us to see) 
to try to develop a homogeneous and coherent perspec- 
tive of our general extended experience of man. A 
whole which unfolds. 
; 
_ The Phenomenon of Man 
from: 
; 
} 
Harper & Row 
_ Teilhard de Chardin 
49 East 33 Street 
© 1959; 320 pp. 
: 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
~ $1.95 postpaid 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
. The concept of perfect and positive health is a utopian creation of the 
struggles, failures, and sufferings. Nevertheless, the utopia of positive — 
control his responses to stimuli and can make adjustments to new ways 
pleasant reality is that in an ever-changing world each period and each 
type of civilization will continue to have its burden of diseases created 
: Reading The Phenomenon of Man js a bit unnerving: Teilhard 
' Man Adapting |. 
“In most cases, man’s responses are determined less by the direct 
3 
- 
RENE DUBOS 
effects of the stimulus on his body fabric than by the symbolic 
interpretation he attaches to the stimulus. Human beings may 
suffer and even die under circumstances which seem highly 
eS 
ek 
favorable to physiological performance, whereas paradoxically 
) 
others will prosper even though conditions appear almost incom- 
patible with the maintenance of life.” 
li 
f 
Ad i 
é 
e 
- 
“The negative aspects of biological interrelationships are not the 
| 
most common in nature, nor are they the most important in the 
4) 
long run. Under natural conditions, a state of equilibrium is 
{ 
f 
commonly reached between various living forms when they have 
Se 
WAI 
long been associated in a given area. This equilibrium is achieved 
; 
through biological and social mechanisms that permit the survival 
and perpetuation of all species involved.” 
Man Adapting 
René Dubos 
x 
1965; 527 pp. 
’ 
$4.95 postpaid 
The truth is, that improvements in the general nutritional state began 
See Epilog, 
when prosperity and greater facilities for the transportation of food 
pages 461 -462 
from: 
; 
, made it possible for many people to afford at least one square meal 
i 
Yale University Press 
=> 
a day; likewise, the mortality of many infections began to recede in a 
149 York Street 
dramatic fashion in Western Europe and North America long before 
New Haven, Conn. 06511 
the introduction of specific methods of therapy, indeed before the 
demonstration of the germ theory of disease. 
A: WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Since the computer first appeared in the late 1940’s the information 
industry has been a certainty. But we do not have it yet. We still 
do not have the effective means to build an “’information system.” 
This is where the work is going on, however, The tools to create 
The A 
information systems may already exist: 
the communications satellite 
Peter Bee Oe Daron amity 
and other means of transmitting information, microfilm and the TV 
1969; 401 pp 
tube to display and store it, rapid printers to reduce it to permanent 
4 
= 
record, and so on. There is no technical reason why someone like 
10.00 
; 
Sears Roebuck should not.come out tomorrow with an appliance 
$ 
postaais 
selling for less than a TV set, capable of being plugged in wherever 
from: 
there is electricity, and giving immediate access to all the information 
Harper & Row 
49 East 33rd Street 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
needed for schoolwork 
from first grade through college. 
Yet though IBM is now shipping computers at a rate of a thousand 
a month, we do not have the equivalent of Edison's light bulb. 
What we are lacking is not a piece of hardware like the light bulb. 
What we still have to create is the conceptual understanding of 
information. As long as we have to translate laboriously every set 
of data into a separate ‘’program,”’ we do not understand information. 
We have to be capable of classifying information according to its 
characteristics. We have to have a ‘’notation,’”” comparable to the 
gee St. Ambrose invented 1,600 years ago to record music, that can 
express words and thoughts in symbols appropriate to electronic 
y 
S€s rather than in the clumsy computer language of today. Then 
ios person could, with very little training; store his own data within 
a general system, that is, in what the computer engineers call a 
“routine.” Then we shall have true “information systems.” 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Teilhard de Chardin’s vision and expression of that vision are 
Underlying the beautiful presentation of man’s ascent towards 
beautiful—of man evolving a super-abundance of mind; in the 
consciousness is a hard core of science: 
noosphere where the All and the Person are one. 
The only way 
¢ 
3 
ss 
f 
Man, in nature, is a genuine fact, falling...within the 
to put all this together without feeling bullshitted is to read 
scope of the ebaittooante sige Nelli alee aca 
The Phenomenon of Man. 
[Reviewed by Dave Evans. 
Only one reality seems to survive and be capable of 
Suggested by Julia Brand_] 
succeeding and spanning the infinitesimal and the immense: 
energy—that floating, universal entity from which all 
emerges and into which all falls back as into an ocean; 
energy, the new spirit, the new God. 
hominisation...noogenesis...cosmogenesis...when Teilhard de 
Chardin uses a simple word like homogeneous something 
magical happens to it. 
The Omega point is where man is God and God is man, where 
all layers of the noosphere become involuted, fusing and con- 
suming the All and the Person integrally in itself. 
A PLACE FOR EVERYTHING 
AND EVERYTHING IN ITS PLACE 
Estelle everything’s by god | really believe it is. You can 
tell it, you can feel it, the signs are all around. This is here and 
we are now and the intersection of time and space is just special 
as hell, and I’m going to find out some things we need to know. 
I believe there’s going to be better relations between east and west. 
| believe if we get organized, a place for everything and everything 
in its place, books in a book box, clothes in a clothes box honey 
you’ve done a wonderful, you have now, and | love you for it 
and take heart and determine to be better than I’ve been in a 
long tinie. Those women understood every word | said. When 
we get to St. Louis. Are these crackers any good? Where's the 
tape recorder? Where'd | put the casettes? When we get to 
St. Louis I’m going to get some car polish and wax old Urge all 
over. 
Is this to throw away? Ain’t this box any good? We need 
all the boxes in St. Louis I’m going to get ten cardboard boxes 
of identical size and label them with what they’re supposed to 
hold. Books in one, look at this shit on my Whole Earth Catalog. 
The mind is essentially the power of synthesis and 
organisation. 
eS 
0 ey oe 
hh A Are 
if ae A 
‘ 
aS oe 
Fuck, | was going to order some stuff out of there. Books in one 
$0 
; 
ah iy & 
box, tape shit in another, every goddamn thing we got's going to 
i 
N i is 
have its proper place. You've done a wonderful thing here honey, 
H 
we 
you really have. You ought to see their tent. From now on. 
Bien 
aU 
Aey 
The lvelopecas of leet kaman' Layer 
When we get to St. Louis. Here, let me lift that for you. Wait! 
The figures on the left indicate thousands of years. 
They 
Don’t throw that glass SNE Here, | W wash it out after while, 
VS 
are a minimum estimate and should probably be at least | | want to put a wildflower in it. | got into this rap about space, 
100 
; 
Zs Nee 
doubled. 
The hypothetical zone of convergence on the point | you know? | was afraid. But they knew exactly and I believe the 
a3 
Omega is obviously not to scale. 
By analogy with other | world’s getting to be a better place. | receive that from somewhere 
= 
living layers, its duration should certainly run into thousands | in my mind. 1 think love and gentleness and neighborliness and 
oN 
of years. 
human harmony are going to prevail. 
| think the stars are moving 
\ 
into very particular cosmic arrangements. And we've got to do 
— Homo sopiens. 
. 
our part. | believe it all depends on everybody doing his part. 
ae Reece 
ae 4 
Look at this bus, goddamn | bet old Urge is proud. 
+—+ Australopithecus 
aor 
Socialized Zone 
ks oe 
: 
, 
¥ 
Human Evolution 
Whole Systems 
