| Plans and the Structure of Behavior 
; 
—Planning can be thought of as constructing a list 
of tests to — 
3 
i 
rs 
, 
Plan. When we speak of a Plan in these pages, however, the 
perform. When we have a clear Image of a desired outcome, we _ 
What | know is that this book and Act of Creation taught 
term will refer to a hierarchy of instructions, and the capitalization 
_can use it to provide the conditions for which we must test, and 
— 
me most of what / know about using my head. 
will indicate that this special interpretation is intended. APlanis 
 _ 
those tests, when arranged in sequence, provide a crude strategy 
; 
4 
any hierarchical process in the organism that can contro! the 
' 
for a possible Plan. (Perhaps it would be more helpful to say that 
The result of a 
year-long conversation by the authors in 
order in which a sequence of operations is to be performed. 
the conditions for which we must test a 
are an Image of the desired 
Californian 1958-59, the book discards Stimulus-Response 
A Plan is, for an organism, essentially the same as a program for 
outcome:) 
oe 
ae 
ras 
psychology (which never helped my head, or probably 
a computer, especially if the program has the sort of hierarchical 
: 
; 
b 
tng 
@ 
nese 
anybody's) and wades into cybernetics instead. Fhe book 
Cran tey Se nee er BA 
a 
We see, therefore, that a person who is Gugtit between conflicting 
is cheerful, if academicky. From it the notion of being 
Execution. We shall say that a creature is executing a particular 
Plans is in a somewhat different situation from the person caught 
— 
programmed, and self-programming, emerges as a con- 
Plan when in fact that Plan is controlling the sequence of operations 
between conflicting motives. He is almost necessarily unaware 
venience rather than a threat. 
That Plans (programs) 
- 
ce is ee sis When an piennien bagedae 
Pans he mers 
sph his nate arb a plete he any 2 Rey con oes Ofes 
. 
5 
y 
tile 
jf 
throu 
it ste 
Yy step, completing 
One part and 
then moving to 
the 
is incompatible 
desires. 
ere is 
almost 
certain 
to 
be a large | 
Sprrare hierarchically ranheriian single ee Cea ee 
. 
next. The exectitigt of a Plan Heed not result in overt action— 
penumbra of confusion surrounding the incompatible Plans; 
enormous saving in trouble and trivia. 
The constant checking 
especially in man, 
it seems to be true that there are Plans for 
a: 
the person seems to be deliberately frustrating himself, but cannot 
of feedback loops (called TOTE units) yields a nice 
collecting or transforming information, as well as Plans for guiding 
‘discover why. He knows something is wrong, but cannot discover — 
connectedness to the environment. 
The consideration of 
actions, Although it is not actually necessary, we assume on intuitive 
what it is. The two Plans may be isolated from one another in 
contradictory or interrupted Plans gives insight into the uses 
grounds that only one Plan is executed at a time, although relatively 
such a way that it never occurs to the person to contrast one with — 
d 
mi 
ff 
tie 
A handy 
book. 
this, of simple 
rapid alternation between Plans may be possible. An organism may— 
the other. 
2 
and 
misuses of 
frustra ion. 
Gh 
ALS 
‘ 
Pp 
probably does—store many Plans other than the ones it happens to be 
: 
‘ 
Hi 
concepts for understanding the subtle realm. 
executing at the moment. 
y 
z 
. 
Human’ institutions exist primarily for the purpose of executing 
plans that their members, as individuals, would be unable or 
unwilling to execute. When the plans that form their raison 
d’etre — 
are taken away—finished, frustrated, outlawed, outgrown, completed, 
, 
whatever—the group may disband. Sometimes they may hold reunions — 
; 
;. to swim in an ocean of emotion, but then they have become social — 
Be: 
| groups with corresponding changes in the plans they execute. But : 
| 
many planless groups disappear and are never heard from again. 
— 
| In this respect groups are like computers, 90 percent plan and 10 — 
The central problem of this book is to explore the relation between 
percent image. Individuals, on the other hand are about 75 le et 
the Image and the Plan. 
Image and 25 Percent Plan. 
; 
[Suggested by Preston Cutler] 
the organism has about itself and its world. The Image consists 
of a great. deal more than imagery, of course. What we have in mind 
when we use this term is essentially the same kind of private repre- 
sentation that other cognitive theorists have demanded. 
It includes 
everything the organism has learned—his values as well as his facts— 
organized by whatever concepts, images, or relations he has been 
able to master. 
—SB 
Image. The Image is all the accumulated, organized knowledge that 
! 
Plans and the Structure of Behavior 
George A. Miller, Eugene Galanter, Karl H. Pribram 
1960; 226 pp. 
$10.00 
from: 
¢ 
Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc. 
postpaid 
383 Madison Avenue 
New York, N. Y.,10017 
Bg 
e 
keg 
i 
If this description of hammering is correct, we should expect the 
The means-ends analysis. runs something like this: First, see if 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
sequence of events to run off in this order: 
Test nail. (Head 
you know any way to transform the given into the desired 
F 
sticks up.) Test hammer. (Hammer is down.) 
Lift hammer. 
solution. 
If no way4s known, then try to reduce the difference 
As you brush your teeth you decide that you will answer that pile of 
Test hammer. (Hammer is up.) Test hammer. (Hammer is up.) 
eae them; fin ei transformation that reduces the 
letters you have been neglecting. That is enough. You do not need 
Strike nail. Test hammer. (Hammer is down.) Test nail: (Head 
difference, and then apply 
it Lia ah e first step pais 
to list the names of the people or to draft an outline of the contents 
__ 
sticksup.) Test hammer. And so on, until the test of the nail 
see if you know Seat a to egrets 
the a bss en 
of the letters. You think simply that today there will be time for it 
reveals that its head is flush with the surface of the work, at 
given into peas so mon ‘ Re oaet 
again paper the. 
after lunch. After lunch, if you remember, you turn to the letters. 
which point control can be transferred elsewhere. Thus the 
Daren the di bbe a ete. 
Eac| k time 
the 
difference i 
You take one and read it. You plan your answer. You may need to 
compound of TOTE [Test-Operate-Test-Exit] units unravels 
problem gets a little easier to solve. 
check on some information, you dictate or type or scribble a reply, 
itself simply enough into a coordinated sequence of tests and 
: 
j 
actions, although the underlying 
struct 
h 
i 
you address an envelope, seal the folded letter, find a stamp, drop 
g 
ying 
structure that organizes and 
ae ae oe s vsteni-of Kairie wied by Nom ataman 
it in a mailbox. 
Each of these subactivities runs off as the situation 
coordinates the behavior is itself hierarchical, not sequential. 
arises—you did not need to enumerate them while you were 
: 
planning the day. All you need is the name of the activity that 
/ you plan for that segment of the day, and from that name you 
then proceed to elaborate the detailed actions involved in carrying 
out the plan. 
and Simon consists in omitting certain details of the problem. 
This usually simplifies the task and the simplified problem may be 
- solved by some familiar plan. The plan used to solve the simple 
i 
problem is then used as the strategy for solving the original, - 
complicated problem. 
See Epilog, pages 46 
. 
2 
The Act of Creation 
Koestler takes his notion of bisociation-to be the root of humor, 
: 
I have coined the term ‘bisociation’ in order to make a distinction 
discovery, and art. | take it to be one of the roots of learning, subject 
between the routine skills of thinking on a single ‘plane’, as it were, 
to applications of method (on yourself or whomever). 
: 
and the creative act, which, as I shall try to shaw, always operates on 
Koestler is a scientist of some reputation by now. He’s made contri- 
butions beyond the work of others that he’s generalized from. 
- This 
is the book that gave him the reputation. 
eB 
There are two ways of escaping our more or less automized routines of thinking 
and behaving. The first, of course, is the plunge into dreaming or dream-like 
states, when the codes of rational thinking are suspended. The other way is 
also an escape—from boredom, stagnation, intellectual predicaments, and emo- 
tional frustration—but an escape in the opposite direction; it is signaled by the~ 
spontaneous flash of insight which shows a familiar situation or event in a new 
light, and elicits a new response to it. The bisociative act connects previously 
unconnected matrices of experience; it makes us ‘understand what it is to be 
awake, to be living on several planes at once’ (to quote T.S. Eliot, somewhat 
out of context). 
The first way of escape is a regression to earlier, more primitive levels of ideation, 
exemplified in the language of the dream; the second an ascent to a new, more 
complex level of mental evolution. Though seemingly opposed, the two pro- 
cesses will turn out to be intimately related. 
; 
When two independent matrices of perception or reasoning interact with each 
other the result(as | hope to show) is either a collision ending in laughter, or 
their fusion in a new intellectual synthesis, or their confrontation in an aesthetic 
experience. The bisociative patterns found in any domain of creative activity 
are tri-valent: that is to say, the same pair of matrices can produce comic, tragic, 
or intellectually challenging effects. 
more than one plane. The former may be called single-minded, the latter a 
double-minded, transitory state of unstable equilibrium where the bale of 
q 
both emotion and thought is disturbed. 
oe 
shown an anthology of typical extracts from’ their letters and a 
biographies with no names mentioned, and then asked to guess 
their profession, the likeliest answer would be: a bunch of poets 
or musicians of a rather romantically naive kind. 
- 
= 
The re-structuring of mental organization effected by the new discovery implies 
. that the creative act has a revolutionary or destructive side. The path of history 
is strewn with its victims: the discarded isms of art, the epicycles and phlogistons 
of science. 
Associative skills, on the other hand, even of the sophisticated kind which re- 
quire a high degree of concentration, do not display the above features. Their 
_ biological equivalents are the activities of the organism while in a state of dy- 
-namic equilibrium with the environment—as distinct from the more spectac- 
ular manifestations of its regenerative potentials. The skills of reasoning rely 
on habit, governed by well-established rules of the game; the ‘reasonable 
central heating which makes his existence “unnatural,”’ but his 
person’—used as a standard norm in English common law—is level-headed in- 
refusal to take an interest in the principles behind 
it. By being 
stead of multi-level-headed; adaptive and not destructive; an enlightened conser- 
entirely dependent on science, yet closing his mind to it, he leads 
vative, not a revolutionary; willing to learn under proper guidance, but unable 
the life of an urban barbarian: 
é 
to be guided by his dreams. 
Modern man lives isolated in his artificial environment, not because 
the artificial is evil as such, but because of his lack of comprehension 
of the forces which make it work—of the principles which relate his © 
gadgets to the forces of nature, to the universal order. It isnot 
© 
Ld 
2 
The main distinguishing features of associative and bisociative thought may 
| must mention one specific factor which is largely responsible for 
now be summed up, somewhat brutally, as follows: 
The Act of Creation 
turning science into a bore, and providing the humanist with an — 
Habit 
Originality 
‘ 
Arihie@ Gcauad 
excuse for turning his back on it. 
It is the academic cant, of ~— 
relatively recent origin, that a self-respecting scientist must be 
Association within the confines 
Bisociation of independent matrices 
1964; 750 pp. 
bore, that the more dehydrated the style of his writing, and the 
of a given matrix 
: 
more technical the jargon he uses, the more respect he will com 
Guidance by pre-conscious or 
Guidance by sub-conscious processes 
$2.75 postpaid 
Nae 
| repeat, this is a recent fashion, less than a century old, but it: 
extra-conscious processes 
normally under restraint 
f 
: 
effect is devastating. The pre-Socratics frequently wrote thei 
Dynamic equilibrium 
Activation of regenerative potentials 
Dell Publishing Company; ine 
treatises in verse; the ancient Peruvian language had a single v 
Rigid to flexible variations on 
Super-flexibility-(reculer pour mieux 
760 Third Avenue 
chica 
hamiavse 
for bad Post Sod Aaa tea 
oy ee 
Sah acia 
miei tele} 
New York. 
N.Y. 10017 
polemical writings were literary masterpieces which had a lasting 
ag 
' 
. 
4 
influence on the development of Italian didactic prose; Kepler’s. 
Repetitiveness 
Novelty 
‘ 
New Astronomy 
is a baroque tale of suspense; Vesalius’ Anatomy 
Conservative 
Destructive-Constructive 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
was illustrated by a pupil of Titian. 
% 
432 Thinking 
| 
eae 
| 
Learning 
‘ 
=! 
: 
; 
> 
