Archigram 
| 
7 
Archigram jis the “Captain Billy’s Whiz Bang” of architec- 
architecture, joke architecture, blasphemy 
architecture, 
| 
ture, leather architecture. 
Sin. Fun. For a while. 
i 
, 
—SB 
Archigram 
Peter Cook, ed. 
| No. 9, maybe 10, maybe 11 
i $1.25 each postpaid 
| from: 
, 
Archigram 
59 Aberdare Gardens 
London NW6 
England 
ture, with lots of imitators 
by now and stil! no equals. Dream 
science fiction architecture, adolescent wet dream architec- 
— 
\ 
AV IN el 
BARRY SNOWDEN © MAY 1969 
Mobile Action Terminal Extension 
LINK 
death of the cammuter.the office 
REGSTER 
You'll Build Your Next House of Molasses 
Molasses used to be an ingredient of cookies that mother made or 
| something to put on hot cakes if you couldn't get maple syrup. 
But today, if you visit our laboratory, you can hardly turn around 
} without bumping into molasses. Beyond festoons of Spanish moss 
} behind our home is an entire building made of molasses. 
|t houses 
|| the machinery for making more molasses products. To get to it, 
| you walk along a molasses driveway that looks, feels and acts like 
“black top.” Here and there, molasses building bricks are drying 
in the sun. 
Inside the building, you walk on a molasses floor, 
examine samples of hard or flexible molasses sewer pipe that rest 
on a laboratory table top made of molasses. There are samples of 
| molasses plaques flexible as rubber, molasses plaques as hard as 
f} rock. 
} The 50-foot molasses black-top driveway you ae on would cost 
j| the average homeowner about $50. Less if he did it himself. A 
| five-room house built with molasses adobe brick on a molasses slab, 
| finished with molasses stipple spray outside, troweled molasses 
' 
|| plastic inside, would cost a man less than $1000, exclusive of 
electricity and plumbing. What's more he'd have a house that 
would stand a hundred years or more——moistureproof, sound- 
} proof, self-insulated, termiteproof. 
It’s the cheapest building 
material in the world. 
|| 
{ Naturally, to make these things you don’t just take a-barrel of 
| pure molasses and start gumming everything up with it. Powdered 
| molasses is the basic ingredient of a new thermosetting plastic 
| that does the trick. By mixing this powdered molasses with plain 
| bunker fuel oil and certain catalysts, we have come up with a 
| thick black Plastic Bitumen we call Plastic B concentrate. 
By 
altering the formula slightly, we have made it in three different 
grades to produce different degrees of hardness. 
| 
| 
|| Plastic B, mixed with clay and sand, produces a waterproof adobe 
}| 
brick hard as concrete. A different mixture of the same ingre- 
j) 
dients makes a cheap, quick-hardening paving material for drive 
ways, highways, parking lots, tennis courts and landing airplane 
Strips. Substitute clay and a fibrous filler for the clay and sand, 
and a brand-new plastic is formed, Plastic C. This can be mixed 
} 
with water and sprayed outside a building to give it a tough 
| stucco finish that won't crack or come loose. Troweled like 
| plaster, Plastic C makes smooth inside walls, floors, ceilings 
| and impervious table tops. 
, The real secret of Plastic B is the dehydrator, which takes the 
} sticky blackstrap molasses and makes a dry granular substance of 
| it——like brown sand. We had a tough time devising a drier to do 
|| the job. Centrifuges gummed up in no time. Freeze driers solidi- 
|| fied the stuff in gobs. Hot air only did half the job, and if heat was 
rf? boosted the molasses caught fire. 
|| 
Today, in the pilot plant, the blackstrap molasses goes into a hot- 
air drier of our own invention. 
Blackstrap’ molasses is pumped into 
| the top of the big drumlike drying chamber under pressure. There 
| it passes through an area of high heat in a split second. 
It’s pow- 
"dered before it knows what happened, and falls to the bottom of 
the drier like snow. 
But it didn’t happen overnight. For instance, 
) until we put in strong, stainless steel pipe, feedlines burst under 
} the tremendous pressure. Hot molasses would geyser all over every- 
‘thing. We spent weeks cleaning molasses out of our hair and scrap- 
|| ing it off the walls and ceiling. 
Once mixed with oil and catalytic agents, the powdered molasses 
flowing from the drier becomes a regular polymerized plastic with 
| remarkable properties. Anyone can make Plastic B-brick himself. 
Take a regular mortar-mixing box, and hoe up what looks like 
cement. 
It’s actually 65 percent plain sand, 30 percent clay and 
} S percent liquid Plastic B. Water is sprinkled on and hoed in until 
} the mixture has the consistency of stiff mortar. The man trowels 
' this into wooden forms, one measures 4 by 8 by 16 inches, or 
|) about eight times the size of a regular red brick. The other is 4 by 
| 8by 8 inches. Off come the forms immediately and oddly enough, 
i 
_ the wet bricks stay set. In three days they’re dry enough to stand 
on end. They are laid the same way as conventional bricks. 
b 
There’ s nothing new about adobe bricks, but there's something 
} new about these. The Plastic C acts as a binder and makes them as 
Pease as concrete. Plain adobe has never been practical in wet 
“country because rain washed it away. Plastic B makes the brick 
‘waterproof. We have set bricks in water for 30 days beside other 
brick. Plastic B-brick absorbed two percent moisture, cement brick 
| eight percent, and regular red ceramic brick twelve percent. Plastic 
bricks have been lying all over the yard in rain, frost and heat for 
year. They still look and test as good as new in the jaws of the 
essure 
jack in the laboratory. 
i. 
QUESTION 3 : DOES YOUR WAY OF LIFE NEED A CITY ? 
there is as quality of IBRoaGE HONG but what tele I do you need the garbage ? 
» 
QUESTION 4 : WOULD YOU PREFER TO BE A 'CITIZEN' OF THE WORLD ? 
and be able to perambulate, or pick up the usefulness of many environments 
We contend that since the bricks are dirt, ‘‘they’re cheap as dirt.” 
We have determined that it takes 3050 of the big bricks to make a 
One-story adobe house of five rooms. You'd need a dozen barrels 
of Plastic B at $24 a barrel to do the job. That's $288 for the main 
shell of your dwelling. You'd set it on a waterproof, Plastic Bized 
adobe slab. Then, used Plastic B spray on the walls and ceiling—-— 
and on the exterior if you want a stucco-type finish. You'll have 
to buy 2 by 6 rafters and joists. But the whole house should not 
cost more than $150 a room, exclusive of plumbing and electricity. 
And about that driveway? You can make that yourself, too, 
if you like and no one will ever be able to tell it from black top. 
_ Fifteen pails of plain beach sand to one pail (about two gallons) of 
Plastic-B, and you've got about a square yard of driveway. 
In 24 
hours, it’s ready to use. No heavy compacting machinery is nec- 
essary, though the more compacting the harder the surface. 
We compacted Our own driveway with an ordinary lawn roller. 
Just rake out the Plastic B as you would an asphalt mix, and start 
rolling. 
... 
Probably the most versatile of all the molasses products is Plastic C-— 
which is simply Plastic C mixed with clay and a filler. This can 
come ready-to-use in 10 gallon moistureproof bags, which can 
sell for about 60 cents a gallon. 
Thinned with water, it can be sprayed on the outside of an old 
house like stucco, troweled on old uneven floors to level them 
and give them a continuous surface like rubber tile, spread on 
table and counter tops to give them a flat surface impervious to 
acids and alkalis, laid on interior walls like plaster or molded into 
forms. Since it's waterproof, it’s ideal for lining anything from 
showers to old-farm outbuildings. Eventually, the material will 
come impregnated with avariety of color, so no painting will be 
necessary. 
To show how it can work on an old building, a 150-year-old cook- 
house was falling apart. Using the spray, we have put a complete 
new surface over the inside walls and ceiling, using about $6.00 
worth of Plastic C. We also troweled the thick material on the 
old, uneven wood floor. You use a mixture of mostly sand to 
fill in the low spots. Then a thin layer of standard Plastic C is 
laid on top. When the floor of the cookhouse is finished, the 
outside will be sprayed——right over the old shiplapping. 
We usually nail tarpaper and fine chicken wire over the surface, 
so we don’t have to fill in all the hollows and consequently use 
three or four times as much Plastic C. 
When complete, the old cookhouse will be tight as a battery box 
upside down——sealed inside and out against weather, termites 
and moisture. 
All for a materials cost of about $25. 
Besides its unique qualities, we expect the demand for this molasses 
plastic to be high largely because of its low price——which we 
believe will always be low. Blackstrap molasses has jumped in 
price per gallon since we started. 
It’s still cheap. But if it gets 
any higher, we'll switch to wood molasses, which is just as good 
and much cheaper. Sure it will be synthetic molasses, but Plastic 
B is synthetic asphalt. How synthetic can you get? As synthetic 
as necessary. 
A number of people have questioned us about the wisdom of 
using sugary substance like molasses for building material. One 
woman wanted to know what we'd do to prevent ants and flies 
from eating her molasses driveway. We told her all Plastic B 
driveways and roads would have to be posted with ant-sized signs 
saying “Please Do Not Eat the Highway.” 
Actually, since the molasses has been completely polymerized, 
there is no sweetness or food value to be found in it. The experi- 
mental driveway only has a normal quota of ants and none of 
them took like they’re eating it. But, you've got to admit that 
a molasses house really would be ‘’Home, Sweet Home.” 
ae 
Very truly yours, 
Robert Morse 
15-20 202nd St. 
Bayside, N.Y. 
11360 
Sent to us by a see 
Culture Breakers, Alternatives, and Other Numbers 
A thin book about inexpensive easy-to-make little function 
domains. Inside-out rooms, houses. 
, 
= SB 
LI 
ts 
[Suggested by 
Cloud and Ronald Paul] 
Culture Breakers, Alternatives, and other Numbers 
i
Ken Isaacs 
a square little book with no page numbers or copyright 
$5.00 postpaid 
from: 
MSS Information Corp. 
655 Madison Avenue 
New York, NY 10021 
VR 
Gays 
2 
> FRIEDA‘S NAME 
So everybody around the old picnic table has something to do 
now except Frieda. The Greek is teaching D.R. how to do al- 
ternate nostril breathing, and Estelle is off brooding among the 
dunes. That leaves Frieda to entertain herself, and so what she 
decides to do is work some more on letting go of her name. As 
we know, the Greek has forgotten his name completely. It took 
him six months of concentrated effort, but he made it. Frieda 
is not as strong in the mind as the Greek. She has been at.it over 
nine months now, and where she is at is that delicate halfway point 
between being totally identified with her name, and forgetting it 
all together. She has managed to forget how to spell it; it means 
nothing to her to see the word “Frieda” written down. But when 
she hears it, the imprint is restored in her mind and her effort is 
set back a frustrating distance. Becoming nameless in a world 
where everything is named is a complicated process requiring the 
utmost diligence and perseverance, but she is committed now. 
That is the legacy of being the girl friend of the Greek for over a 
year. 
The only thing wrong with that legacy, though, is that now she 
is known as the girl friend of the Greek. Where is that at? she 
asks herself. How is that better than being known as Frieda? 
It 
has slowly been dawning on her that it isn’t better, that, in fact, it 
is a good deal worse, and suddenly she is resolved: 
She stands up, dusts off her pants with her hands, glances at 
the Greek who is busy teaching D.R. the bellows breath, walks 
with great dignity over to the picnic table where the family is 
eating, and asks if she can ride away with them when they go. 
At first the family is a little uptight about this strange request, 
but when the girl explains to them that she has been kidnapped 
and held for ransom, they understand. The big fat momma of the 
family especially understands. She was never kidnapped, but she 
was an orphan as a child, and in her heart she carries a vast 
reservoir of love, pity and protective concern for all waifs and 
strays. She is also one very tough big fat momma. She offers to 
go over and beat up on the poor girl’s tormentors, and take them 
before the law. But Frieda says no, that merely to escape will be 
enough. So the family, the Willitts family, of Oklahoma City, 
abruptly begins to pack up the food and load into the two-tone 
green and white Pontiac nearby. Momma shepherds the whole 
gang in before her, the Greek’s former girl friend, two boys about 
eleven years old, a little girl about six, an old grandfather, and of 
course Poppa Willitts, who drives. 
It’s crowded, but they manage. 
Momma Willitts gets in last, and the Pontiac, sagging drastically, 
eases out of the rest area onto the freeway, headed west. = 89 
Shelter 
, 
:
