How to Keep Your Volkswagen Alive 
John Muir has written what may well be your V.W.’s best friend. In 
this book you are invited to “Just take the book out to the car with 
your coveralls on for a guided tour.”” 
So | did. My guided tour of the car and the book’s easily versed 
descriptions convinced me that it is the best I’ve encountered yet. 
It’s written for the layman (us), and as such makes about 80% of 
the common V.W. ailments both clear and repairable. 
If you take it literally, you will learn to “feel the car” and perform 
the necessary tasks with love. 
There are also many pages devoted to 
what you can do when hung up on the mud flats for one reason or 
another. 
While “Volkswagen Technical Manual” contains more 
pictures of the beast, “Volkswagen Alive” is what | would prefer 
to have when it’s time to unroll the metric wrenches, 
[Reviewed by Don Burns] 
OK so here’s a good book on how to fix your VW written ina 
chummy style that will not be too amusing the second time you read 
it. There's a real collection of tricks and pitfalls that to my mind is 
well worth the money. But some of them are rehashes of old wives 
tales that are not true (there’s a bit about the VW Understeer. What 
makes the VW dangerous is Oversteer: 
it steers more than you tell 
it too. Also, some of the really damnable aspects of repairing old 
VWs such as headlights that are about as bright as birthday cake 
candles, are simply and groovily dismissed without telling you how 
to do anything about it. HOWEVER. 
. .an idiot can actually do 
major repairs on his VW with the aid of this book, and that, friends, 
is saying a lot. 
| would recommend that you have this and the 
E/lfrink book at your side. John Muir also gives. lists of tools you 
need, which hand to hold them in, and when to stop for a morale- 
building smoke. He also tells you when to quit and what not to 
attempt. Any VW owner should be able to save the price of the 
book within a week of getting it. Reading it will aid you in keeping 
your bug out of the shop in the first place. 
There’s a “how to buy 
a used VW” chapter too! And he starts out “Come to kindly terms 
with your Ass for it bears you.“ Indeed. Id call it indispensable. 
[Reviewed by J. Baldwin] 
- 
How to Keep Your Volkswagen Alive 
John Muir 
1969; 336 pp 
$6.00 plus postage and handling 
($.50) 
1974 revised edition includes 411’s Squarebacks and Fastbacks 
Covers fuel injected engines extensively. 
from: 
John Muir Publications 
- 
Box 613 
Santa Fe, NM 87501 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Volkswagen Technical Manual 
Besides Muir’s book Elfrink is considered the best VW repair 
book. 
This one covers only up to 1965. For later models 
they have other manuals. Good prevention against getting’ 
burned by the Volkswagon agencies in Reno and Oklahoma 
City (name your favorite villain; those are mine) when a dis- 
maying noise starts following you down. the road and your 
trip shifts from 400 miles a day to nothing a week. 
(Suggested by Don Burns/ 
FORSEDAN,GHIA 
‘&TRANSPORTER 
HOW TOKEEP YOUR 
fy 
i 
Get away from the car and the owner or salesman to let your mind 
and feelings go over the car and the idea of the car. What has its 
Karma been? Can you live with the car? Walk around or find a 
quiet place, assume the good old Lotus and let the car be the 
thing. At this point some revelation will come to you and you 
will either be gently guided away from that scene and can start 
looking again, or you will still be attracted toward the car and 
can continue with your inspection. Jt 7s important that you neither 
run the motor or ride in the caruntil this preliminary scene has 
run its course. 
\t also puts the owner-salesman up the wall because 
he has no idea of what you are doing and will be more pliable when 
the hard dealing time comes. 
When the Volksie front end needs your tender attention, it'll let 
you know by feeling insecure, a not-unknown trip in any relation- 
ship. This insecurity can be evidenced in many ways: 
wandering 
mindlessly across the road, impulsively darting here and there, 
wearing tires out in funny patterns or making nerve-wracking 
noises on dirt roads. These are the symptoms and you are the 
doctor, at least almost a doctor. 
I’ve told you so many things to 
do, it's a real pleasure to tell you something not to do. Don’t 
rotate your tires! 
\t takes about 500 miles for a tire to get used 
to its position on a car, and changing it around just messes up 
its head. 
It will last as long or longer right where it is. The reason 
| tell you this now is that changing the tires around will sometimes 
make your front end feel insecure when there’s nothing wrong with 
it. 
The VW has often been compared to that other 
universal car’ of many years ago: the model T Ford 
of which more than 15 million were built. There is 
a germ of truth in this comparison; both cars were 
built for the masses by geniuses in their field, but 
whereas the old model T was basically a simple car 
which could be repaired, so to speak by anyone 
with a screw driver and a pair of pliers, the VW is 
a high precision piece of machinery. The VW, 
although simple in its basic conception, actually in 
many ways is a subtle mechanism, as will be readily 
apparent after the following pages are perused. 
from: 
Volkswagen 
Henry Elfrink 
Technical Manual 
Automotive 
Henry Elfrink 
1964; 256 pp. 
$3.50 postpaid 
P.O. Box 20367 
Los Angeles, CA 90006 
or WHOLE 
EARTH 
CATALOG 
Baja Bug Kit 
VW Owner! 
Is your commune’s road impassable during the winter rains; have 
you always wanted to drive the rough dirt roads of Baja? If you, 
already have a VW beetle, the Baja Bug is the simplest least expen- 
§ 
sive and most versatile conversion kit on the market. 
You can keep 
your sedan and have your dune buggy too! Unlike other dune 
buggy kits, this one does not require chopping, shortening, and 
welding the belly pan or buying an expensive fiberglass body 
without heater, windows or top. 
You can do this conversion 
easily at home in one- or two weekends. More ground clearance, 
room for big wheels and tires and easy access to the engine are 
major advantages. Important accessories available for serious off 
road drivers: skid plates, air filters, high clearance exhausts, etc. 
VW bus owners will be interested in flared fiberglass fenders for 
wide tread tires. 
Miller-Havens Enterprises catalog 
Baja Bug Conversion Kit 
4 
oO 
Baja Bus Fender Kit 
Ae toi es 
Miller-Havens Enterprises 
2944 Randolph Ave. 
Costa Mesa, California 92626 
Volkswagen 
Nomadics 
Jane Nichols 
Palos Verdes Estates, CA. 
VOLKSWAGEN 
TECHNICAL MANUAL 
ALL ABOUT THE VOLKSWAGEN 
The methods employed to boost the power output 
of the VW engine follow the usual speed-tuning 
pattern: dual carburetors, supercharging, high 
compression cylinderheads, high-compression 
pistons, long-stroke crankshafts, special camshafts, 
extra large cylinders and the various possible 
combinations of these methods. 
Shee 
ANU US 
FREEPLAY 
VICEGRIP 
Take the hub cap off the wheel and check the brake lining in each 
wheel. You can see it through the adjustment hole with the flash- 
light. You may have to roll the car back and forth a little to get the 
lining in view, and if the outside light is strong, a jacket or cloth 
over the fender and your shoulders will cut the daylight so the 
lining can be.seen. 
If the lining is about one-eighth of an inch 
thick, you have plenty, but if it is less than a sixteenth, you will 
soon have to reline the brakes and you should know that. 
Again, this doesn!t apply to those who already know they're going to buy 
new pistons and cylinders, but you others, mark the pistons. - 
TWIIHM 
MI 
a 
a 
w 
x= 
2 
A 
we 
PAY ATTENTION 
$0 You DONT & 
BANG THE 
"\ 
PISTON SRIRT 
HERE 
With a nail or file, scratch the number on the top of the piston, through 
that carbon, and draw an arrow pointing toward the flywheel, like I, II, etc. 
Start with #1, get it out as far as it'll go, and remember the WARNING. 
- 
MARK PISTONS AS SHOWN BEFORE REMOVING. 
Western Distributors 
Bug parts——at sensible prices. This small mailorder house 
offers the VW owner a chance to buy imported parts for 
his car at really fair prices. Not all parts are offered, but 
the ones most often replaced (cables, points, brakes, etc.) 
are there. Genuine Bosch sparkplugs are a bargain at 55¢ 
each postpaid. No minimum order, either. A few accessories, 
plus a VW Technical Manual complete the offering. Parts 
are listed for the Beetle as well as the Ghia, Bus, Fastback, 
_ Squareback, and Variant. Free catalog is offered. Service 
——good. Postage——all items are shipped postpaid. 
[Suggested and reviewed by Gerard Ruch] 
~e 
Catalog 
free 
Defunct 
1300—1500—1600 FUEL SYSTEM 
DESCRIPTION 
ORDER NO. 
PRICE 
Fue! Pump (1300) 
------enawannwnanan-n-nm--= 
50-F-1 
$12.95 
€a, 
| 
Fue! Pump (1500-1600) 
--------ae------=----- 
50-F-2 
13.95 a, 
- 
Fuel Pump Kit (1300) 
-a--eseeece-nn------=-- 
50-F=3 
2,10 
6a, 
Fuel Pump Kit (1500-1600) 
=-------------=--=- 
50-F-4 
2,60 ea. 
Carburetor (Must have carburetor number) 
--- 
50=-F=5' 
36,95 
ea, 
Carburetor Kit (Must have carburetor number)- 
50-F=6 
4,25 
ea, 
Another VW Book 
You have in your catalogue two very good books on VWs. 
~ 
How to Keep Your VW Alive is good for technique while 
Elfrink’s Technical Manual supplies sometimes very helpful 
extra information. However if you happen to own a 1965 
Sedan (like | do) or a later model you will find that the 
Technical Manual is confusing and not complete. The 
latest edition of this book was published in 1965. 
| have a better one. 
It is called The Volkswagen Owners 
Handbook of Maintenance and Repair, published by Floyd 
Clymer. This is a very thorough book with up-to-date and 
‘easy to understand (and to locate) exploded diagrams, and 
pictures. | recommend it highly to anyone that owns a ‘65 
Sedan or later as it has sections for '65’s, 1300's, ‘67's, '68’s, 
and ‘69's. 
Clymer publishes other books on VWs including one on 
, 
1600s, Transporters, Souping Up a VW, How to Drive and. 
Road Test a VW, and even an old reprint of one of the 
: 
first VW instruction books. Clymer also publishes books ~ 
2 
on many other foreign makes (Porsche, Datsun, Volvo). 
5 
Best Regards, 
Steve Keleher 
= 
Van Nuys, CA 
~ 
t 
J 
Ld 
Volkswagen Owners Handbook of Maintenance and Repair 
f 
$3.00 from Floyd Clymer, 222 No. Virgil Avenue, Los 
Angeles, CA 90004 
