Boats Letter 1 
International Marine Publishing Co. By the way, they have the 
best boat-book catalog anywhere. 
21 Elm Street, Camden, Maine 
04843. Put their catalog in your catalog. 
OK, here’s a list of good books on basics of 
sailing, cruising, 
design, and boatbuilding, with hasty comment. 
On elementary sailing: 
There’s a flock of new books I haven’t looked at. The old (1930s) 
classic, and I suspect still the best in many ways, is Learning to Sail, 
by H.A. Calahan, MacMillan, $5.95. Calahan is clear and pains- 
taking on rudiments, but also far wider in scope than most primers. 
Good material on peripheral but important matters from main- 
tainance to moorings. Out of date with respect to modern materials 
(fiberglass, dacron), but that just means the old materials (wood, 
canvas, manila rope) are thoroughly covered. A rare virtue nowadays. 
On cruising (assuming you have the rudiments of 
sailing covered): 
Calahan‘has a sequel, Learning to Cruise, which ts just as good. 
Again, oriented towards traditional boats, materials, and methods. 
You can get both Calahans (and Learning to Race) in a single 
volume called Yachtsman’s Omnibus, MacMillan, $9.95. 
If I had to recommend only one book, it would be Cruising Under 
Sail, by Eric Hiscock, Oxford University Press, $12.75. Hiscock 
and his wife have spent their adult lives making long voyages, in- 
cluding twice around the world. 
This is the book on how to do 
everything, a fantastic wealth of detail given in an orderly and 
practical manner. 
If bread for books is a problem, you can at least begin with 
Cruising, by Peter Heaton, Penguin paperback, $1.95. 
This is a 
sketchy treatment, but a bargain. Some nice boats pictured in both 
plans and photos. 
About money: cruising boats are very expensive. 
The very cheapest 
boats discussed in Hiscock, Calahan, or Heaton, for instance, might 
easily cost ten or 
fifteen thousand dollars to build new today. 
Prices of old boats vary with age and condition. 
There are some 
good bargains around. However, the novice can get started pretty 
cheaply, since you can cruise, after a fashion, in very small craft. 
You'd be wise to start small anyway, regardless of expense, becayse 
small size reduces the scale of the mysteries to be mastered. 
The smallest possible is very small indeed. Robert Manry crossed 
the Atlantic in a thirteen-footer. 
This wasn’t a stunt, either, but 
in most respects a well-planned and competent passage. 
It’s worth 
_ mentioning that he knew nothing about sailing beforehand, but 
he used his good head and systematically read every book he could 
find. (Many have put to sea ill-informed and ill-equipped. They 
always fail and are sometimes lost altogether.) Tinkerbelle, Robert 
Manry, Dell paperback, 75¢. 
The Hiscock of very small boats is Cruising Boats Within Your 
Budget, by John Jacob Benjamin, Harper & Bros. 
This covers 
almost everything a beginner can learn from a book about owning, 
cruising in, maintaining, and loving his own very small ship. 
Published in 1957, and dated on materials and costs. I fear, I sadly 
fear, that it may be out of print, but is worth looking for. In any 
case, I don’t know the price. 
My favorite manual on cruising in very small boats ts The Small 
Boat Skipper and His Problems, by Eugene V. Connett, W. W. 
Norton Co. This too appears to be out of 
print, but is too beautiful 
to neglect mentioning. 
This, ike Benjamin, is about life aboard 
boats so small that pulling on your pants in the cabin becomes a 
logistics and engineering adventure. Much less systematic and 
comprehensive than Benjamin, and so perhaps less useful. 
This book is about love. 
The Compleat Cruiser, by L. Francis Herreshoff, Sheridan House, 
$7.50, is a Victorian-style fiction in which a cast of tediously stuffy 
characters enact some cruises in various boats. Some of the dialogue 
is unintentionally hilarious. But Herreshoff ts a cranky genius and 
a great yacht designer, and much lore and wisdom comes out of 
those improbable mouths. Don’t make this your first book on 
cruising, but don’t miss it either, somewhere along the way. 
Piloting, Seamanship, and Small Boat Handling, by Charles Chapman, 
published by Motor Boating magazine, $11.95, is a really essential 
encyclopedic reference, used as a textbook for Power Squadron 
courses. Not much on sail (written primarily for motor boats), but 
the best single book on piloting, with excellent stuff also on weather, 
marlinespike seamanship, ground tackle, signalling codes, and 
everything else imaginable. 
With Hiscock and Chapman you can get 
pretty far. 
On design and construction: 
These subjects, especially design, are important to anybody who is 
about to actually lay out money ona 
boat, even if he will never do 
any designing or building. As in skiing, mountain climbing, playing 
a musical instrument, or any such subtle and beautiful skill, you 
will be severely limited and inconvenienced by poor equipment. In 
this field, change is not always progress, and the older boats are 
often better than the latest fiberglass models. Many of the con- 
temporary mass-produced, mass-marketed fiberglass racing-cruising 
boats have design defects as cruising craft, and your only defense 
is knowledge. 
The real beginner could start with Understanding Yacht Design, 
by Edward S. Brewer and Jim Betts, Yacht Design Institute (Brooklin, 
Maine 04616), 8 1/2 x 11 paperbound, $3.95. This is non-technical 
and elementary, in fact sometimes oversimplified at the cost of 
clarity and precision. 
There are a few controversial points which 
are not labelled as such, but offered as gospel. 
The Sailing Yacht, by Juan Baader, W. W. Norton & Co., $15.00, 
covers an enormous range of subjects from principles of design to 
storms at sea, though this range leads to some superficiality. 
It’s 
m part a pretty good introduction to the grosser aspects of design, 
with chapters on hull forms, rigs, and aerodynamic and hydrodynamic 
theory as applied to sailboats. Particularly useful for the large 
number of plans given of boats of 
all types. 
A somewhat more technical and far more detailed and elegant 
treatise is Sailing Yacht Design, by Douglas Phillips-Birt, Adlard 
~Coles Lid. (London), $13.95. 
This may be the most useful single 
volume for the amateur who is really interested. Other books get 
deeper into certain specifics, but this covers the subject ina most 
lucid and orderly way, touching on history, theory, shapes, types, 
rigs, construction, drafting, measurement rules, and calculations. 
Yacht Designing and Planning, by Howard I. Chapelle, W. W. Norton 
& Co., $10.00 reflects the state of the art in 1936, and conservatively 
— 
even for then. 
Very good if you want_to get into the actual process 
of designing, with a sample design worked out step by step through 
the book. Along the way you get valuable comments on many 
matters from an empirical and commonsense point of view. No 
theory. Superb drawings. 
Cruising 
Neandn 
Ss 
Cruising Under Sail 
! love any book that has the balls to fully annotate its 
bibliography. 
This one does. | can see why 
it’s the standard 
cruising text. 
Crineang Under Sail 
Eric C. 
Hiscock 
1950, 1965; 468 pp. 
$1 5.95 postpaid 
from: 
Oxford University Press, Inc. 
200 Madison Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
American Small Sailing Craft, Chapelle, Norton, $12.50, is the 
standard work on the history of all important types of small sailing 
craft and their evolution during the years of working sail in America. 
A great classic. More superb drawings. 
The CommonSense of Yacht Design, 
by L. Francis Herreshoff, 
Caravan-Maritime Books, $25.00, is another classic. Herreshoff, 
one of the great designers, is an eccentric artist, arid this work ts 
rambling, anecdotal, opinionated, insulting, entertaining, personal, 
and endlessly instructive. Also occasionally wrongheaded. It 
covers sooner or later and somehow or other most subjects of 
importance. Some exquisite drawings. 
Boatbuilding, Chapelle, Norton, $15.00, is the standard text on 
traditional wood construction, and Boatbuilding Manual, by Robert 
M. Steward, Poseidon Publishing Company (Lakeville, Conn. 06039) 
is a useful and more modern supplement. 
Peace, 
Mait Edey 
Edey & Duff 
Harbor Rd. 
Mattapoisett, Mass. 02739 
Edey & Duff build a nice fiberglass and wood cruising boat, the 
Stone Horse. Info: $1.50. 
—SB 
The Craft of Sail: A Primer of Sailing, Jan Adkins, Walker & Co., 
NY, $5.95. Especially for kids, but superb for any novice who wants 
to see at a glance how and why sailboats do this or that. The text is 
simple and lucid, managing to convey much information in-a few 
words. The drawings are full of character, and show a real 
understanding of the aesthetics of small boats. 
Cruising teaches a man to rely on his own judgement and skill, 
and it is one of the few worthwhile things that can still be enjoyed 
today by a man or woman of independent spirit, for there are no 
restrictions, no organizing body is needed, and the sea is open and 
free for all who have the inclination to sai! on it and a suitable 
vessel for the purpose. 
It may cost as much or as little as one is 
prepared to spend, for an old and cheap yacht, provided she is 
sound, may be just as suitable for cruising, though perhaps not so 
convenient or such fun to sail, as an expensive one of modern 
design and build, anda small yacht, though not so comfortable, may 
be just as seaworthy asa large one. 
There are many different forms of the sport. One man gets his 
pleasure by making short day sails along the coast, spending each 
night at anchor, sharing with his wife and family the peace of the 
creeks and the novelty of life in their compact and mobile floating 
honie. Another, who can spare the time, gets his satisfaction by 
making long passages in the open sea, taking the weather as it 
comes, and driving his yacht day and night until she fetches up 
in some foreign land. 
Meeting steamers do not dread’ 
When you see three lights ahead 
Starboard wheel and show your red. 
Green to green and red to red, 
Perfect safety, go ahead. 
|f to starboard red appear, 
‘Tis your duty to keep clear; 
Act as judgement says is proper, 
Port or starboard, back or stop her. 
But when upon your port is seen 
A steamer's starboard light of green, 
There's not so.much’for you to do 
For green to port keeps clear of you. 
Sailing Hydrofoils 
- 
Very far out boats. All manner of designs and lore on 
home-makeable boats that rise up and go like a son of a 
bitch. The cutting edge of sailboat design. The Amateur 
Yacht Research Society also has literature on Self Steering, 
Multihull Design, Sailing Aerodynamics, Dinghy Design, 
etc; 
a 
= Chr 
Sailing Hydrofoils 
Amateur Yacht Research Society 
1970; 286 pp. 
$8 postpaid 
from: 
Amateur Yacht Research Society 
Hermitage, Newbury, Berkshire 
England 
=. 
At the moment, we are on the very verge of seeing some remarkable 
hydrofoil craft which fall into two classes, namely (1) the Flying 
hydrofoil craft where the whole boat lifts off the water, leaving 
only three foils to sustain it and *2) the Hydrofoil Stabilised 
craft, where a long lean boat is stabilised against the capsizing 
moment of the wind by a hydrofoil placed to leeward. 
The fully flying hydrofoil sailing boat may, or may not, achieve 
speeds of 40 knots. Due to the limitations of hydrofoils in 
“cavitation,” ultimate speeds of more than 45 knots are very unlikely 
indeed. Some development i is needed, however, before such a oar 
is seaworthy. 
The hydrofoil-stabilised sailing boat, on the other hand, if some 
50 feet long could be ordered tomorrow. 
If built lightly enough 
such as in PVC foam and fibreglass sandwich, it will have a better 
“lift to resistance ratio’ than the fully flying type up to speeds of . 
30 knots. 
It might well do 40 knots and be a fully seaworthy 
craft capable of righting herself from the upside down position. 
Bill Prior’s second flying hydrofoil 
