Metal Techniques for Craftsmen 
If you read this book, you'll know more about metalworking 
than just about anybody you know. International in scope, it 
covers an incredible collection of techniques from many 
countries 
and cultures. The various techniques are presented with a 
complete set of instructions for each one and are illustrated : 
by excellent photographs, often of native craftsmen doing 
their thing. Tools are described and illustrated in detail. 
Everything /s described in detail. Reading this book will 
take you right up to that point where youll have to do it 
awhile yourself to get into it any further. This is a 
real assembly of diverse information, some of it hard 
to find, and a metal-crafter-jeweler should be into new 
things within an hour of getting his hands on it. Fhis 
is one of those rare and super books written by someone 
that wanted to /ay his trip on others. Well worth the 
money. The “definitive text”, as they say. 
[Suggested by Claudio Marzollo. 
Reviewed by J. Baldwin] 
A craftsman of Tanjore, India, securing an encrusted 
silver ornamental medallion on a brass plate in the 
Metal Techniques for Craftsme 
nagas 
Or 
swam! 
process of metal decoration. 
Oppi Untracht 
1968; 509 pp. 
$1 9.95 postpaid 
from: 
Doubleday & Company 
501 Franklin 
Garden City, New York 11531 
yee 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
See Epilog, page 556 
Forge welding is the oldest welding process. Wrought iron and 
mild steel can be welded in forging by heating the parts to be joined 
till they are brilliant white-hot and emitting sparks. The metal at 
this point has reached a condition of surface plasticity. The parts are 
then brought into contact quickly, on top of each other, and 
hammered together. They fuse into one unit. Butt joints can be 
welded by first upsetting the ends to be joined, to thicken them, 
then reheating the ends to welding temperature, placing them 
together, and hammering them. The original thickness is maintained. 
lf-the metal is absolutely clean, free of oil or cinder, no flux ts 
necessary, because the slag in wrought iron acts as a flux. The 
force to be exerted by the hammer depends on the mass and 
size of the parts being joined. 
: 
SAND CASTING OF 
ALUMINUM. Sand casting is 
the best-known and most 
frequently used casting process. 
_ 
(For a procedural discussion, 
see page 325.) The method 
used for aluminum is the same 
as that used for other non- 
ferrous metals, with care 
taken for temperature control. 
In small sand castings, a section 
of 3/16 of an inch is considered 
the minimum 
possible. The 
surface of sand castings 
depends for its character on the 
fineness of the sand used. For 
large castings, coarser sand is 
4 
advisable. Aluminum sand 
Sterling silver necklace utilizing 
castings generally have smoother 
; 
18-gauge metal, by Mary Ann Scherr. 
surfaces than other sand cast 
Greek bronze wire fibula, “spectacle type,’’ tenth-eighth 
Length: 16% inches; each unit: 
: 
metals, partly because of the 
centuries B.C. (Geometrical Period). Back view. Length: 
: 
3% inches by % inch. The intaglio pa 
lower melting point required 
5 5/16 inches... This pin, including the pinstem and catch, 
pattern was created with an etching 
i 
of the metal, and partly because 
is made entirely of one continuous piece of wire. 
solution of half nitric acid and half 
the sand does not burn into the 
Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York. Fletcher Fund; 1937. 
water and was then oxidized. 
; 
"surface of the casting. 
There are different ways of approaching the subject of jewelry 
making. Some begin by having the student or beginner take for 
the first problem one that calls for the use of wire bending and 
- 
soldering. Others give a problem calling for the introduction of 
a variety Of processes in one piece. Experience shows that the 
best and most satisfactory results are obtained both from the 
student's point of view.and the consideration of the finished 
product when the student is led to advance from the simple 
‘ 
problem to the niare complex by a series of elementary problems 
carefully graded. 
The beginner has not only to.learn the processes 
| 
involved in the making ofa piece of jewelry but also to master 
the various tools used and to learn the limitations of his material. 
Although the number of tools used in jewelry making are few, it 
seems best for the beginner to take them up one or two ata time 
- 
and plan his problem accordingly. 
Jewelry Making and Design 
supertloral middlefinger rock rings, 
grandma’s brooches. 
reprint of design manual from about fifty years ago. 
studies in geometrical patterns 
and better yet, 
suggestions for lifting design 
from shell, bud, leaf, bug, snow crystal, 
finger, and so forth. 
fairly complete metalworking how-to illustrations 
and procedural techniques for modeling, casting, 
piercing, enameling, carving. 
The Processes involved in jewelry making are as follows: 
cheap too. 
Sawing, Filing, Bending, Carving, Embossing or repousse, 
4 
Soldering, Stone Setting, Polishing, Coloring, Pickling, 
—j 
Modeling, Casting, Annealing. 
[Suggested by Joseph R. Coelho] 
Jewelry Making and Design 
Augustus F. Rose and Antonio Cirino 
1918. 67; 304 pp. 
$3.00 postpaid 
from: 
Dover Publications Inc. 
180 Varick Street 
New York, New York 10014 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
See Epilog, page 556 
1 
Jewelry 
: 
Sites 
eae 
ee 
sai 
tae 
Craft 
Minimum essential set of tools for jewelry making 
; 
re 
