i Know A Place 
Good simple idea, good simple book; pure mirror: you 
write and illustrate a book whose subject (not object) 
is you. Kids groove. Me too. 
=A 
[Suggested by Joni Miller] 
I Know A Place (Vols. 1,2,3) 
Robert Tannen 
1969; 134 pp. 
$3.40 postpaid (20% off to schools) per set 
*. from: 
City Schools Curriculum Service, Inc. 
60 Commercial Wharf 
: 
‘ 
Boston, Mass. 02110 [Spanish edition is forthcoming.] 
by 
and Robert Tannen 
I know a person. A picture of this 
person is on the next page. 
The name of this person is 
The person was named 
because 
Looking and Seeing 1. Pattern and Space 
The Development of Shape 
The Shapes We Need 
The Shape of Towns 
GIN 
This series of 4 books was designed for use in British schools. 
They are absolutely first-rate. 
As befits such books, they are filled with excellent illustrations 
| and the text is very explicit. While it would seem to have the 
12-16 year olds in mind, the books are packed with stuff of 
| 
interest to anyone who wants to know about the visual world 
| and isn’t too proud to read simple English. 
The author's view is, 
We have learnt to exert a certain amount of control over our world, 
over our surroundings and the lives we lead within them. But although 
we have gained much we have probably lost even more. We no longer 
possess the knowledge and the understanding to judge the things we 
make: 
our houses and factories, our implements and machines, our 
cities and roads. Because of this failure in judgement, we often find 
ourselves surrounded with such ugliness as would have horrified men 
of past ages. 
... 
It is now more important than ever that we should 
learn to understand the basic laws of the world around us, the man- 
made world and the world of nature. 
(bk. 1, p. 2) 
The illustrations are widely drawn, but are consistently 
relevant to man. 
Traditional. crafts, modern building, 
technology, graphics, ergonometrics, D’Arcy-Thomson-like 
discussion of structure, social influences and industrial 
design are all dealt with. 
One small foible——not all the illustrations are fully identified, 
| except in the teachers’ handbooks which are put out as 
small companions to the 4 books. 
These also deal with 
the short exercises which are set at the end of each section 
in the books. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
David and Lyn Roessler] 
~ 
' 
Musical Instruments Made to be Played 
Dryad Press in England has a series 
of craft books that may be particularly 
apt for school kids. Their Musical ’ 
Instruments book has clear instructions 
and full-size plans for the fabrication 
of simple drums, shakers, xylophones, 
» 
glockenspiels, dulcimers, psalteries, 
etc. Looks like fun. Other books of 
theirs we’ve seen include one on 
Netting (40¢) and one on Making and 
Playing Bamboo Pipes ($2. 70). 
+SB 
[Suggested by Richard Raymond] 
Tuning and Playing the Bowed Psaltery 
The notes to which the strings should be tuned 
are given on the full size drawing on the inserted 
sheet. See also diagram 70 for the compass of 
the instrument. Tune the notes of the strings to 
the notes of a piano. In playing, rest the short 
side of the triangle against the body just above 
the left hip, and with the left hand, support the 
instrument towards the other end. Holding the 
bow in the right hand, bow the far end of each 
string. See plate 6. The diatonic scale of C is 
on the right. Reach over to the other side for 
the sharps and flats. 
It is necessary to lift the 
bow from string to string. True legato playing 
is impossible but it is easy to play sustained 
notes, and these are particularly acceptable when 
used with tuned percussion insturments. 
SIMPLE STRING INSTRUMENTS 
y 
61 
psalteries of traditional shape 
pig's snout or 
‘istromento di porco” 
Looking and Seeing 
Books 1—4. 
Kurt Rowland 
1966; 130 pp. each 
$4.50 each postpaid 
from: 
Van Nostrand-Reinhold 
450 West 33rd Street 
New York, N. Y. 10001 
Both the pine cone, 3, and the dahlia, 4, 
have two sets of spirals. Count them and see 
Uf they are part of the Fibonacci series. 
The same author has another 
excellent series, for younger 
children: 48 pp. each. 
Learning to See (Vols. 1-3) 
1968 
$1 -95 each (75¢ workbook 
for each available) 
PART SEVEN 
from: 
. 
Van Nostrand Reinhold 
450 West 33rd Street 
New York, N.Y. 10001 
THE TRACE FORK NEWS 
by Barry Berry 
Musical Instruments Made to be Played 
(reprinted from the Blaine Herald) 
Ronald Roberts 
1965; 81 pp. and plans 
Well, | know a lot of you were disappointed that there wasn't 
any news last week. 
It didn’t mean that nothing was going on. 
Something’s always going on around Trace Fork and up and down 
Rockhouse Creek, but ! just felt too bad last week to write it up. 
I’ve had a virus going on ten days now. | don’t know what it was, 
but it sure makes you feel awful when you get it. I’m not plum 
over it yet but | do feel some better this week although I’m still not 
up to making a full report. This time next week | intend to be well 
enough to write half the paper full, but I’m going to take it kind of 
easy this week because | sure don’t want any relapse of whatever it 
was that I’ve been down with. 
$7.50 postpaid from: 
' 
Dryad Press 
Northgates, Leicester 
ENGLAND 
Dolly Huff told me that Mr. and Mrs. Dwayne Holcomb were 
down from LaPorte, Indiana over the weekend visiting her mother, 
who is 88 years old. 
Aunt Eunice Bartlett and her son Denver went to Lexington to 
visit Ira Combs, who had surgery on his leg. They report the opera- 
tion was a success and that Ira should be home in a week or two. 
Denver drove his new Chevrolet. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Cooney have also been to Lexington lately. 
Their daughter Sarah finished nurse’s training at Good Samaritan 
Hospital and her parents went down to the graduation. Sarah is a 
registered nurse now. Seems like only yesterday she was here in 
high school, cheerleading. Congratulations, Sarah. Why don’t you 
come on back home and‘be a nurse in one of our fine mountain 
hospitals? We need good nurses and doctors. We need all of our 
young people to come back home to live. 
But it seems like there’s just not enough opportunity here for 
young people any more. 
I'd hate to know the figures on just how 
many of our fine young people have moved away in the last few 
years. 
(continued) 
Home School 
; 
Learning 
A pattern of instruments. 
In addition to showing many of the 
instruments described in the book, this photograph shows the 
frame and soundboard assembly of a Spinet and also a Fidel 
with its bow. Nearby lies the template for a viola back. 
