| 
_.¢ Population Bomb 
There’s a shit storm coming. Not a nice clean earthquake or 
satisfying revolution but pain in new dimensions: world pain, 
sub-continents that starve and sub-continents that eat.unable 
The battle to feed all of humanity is over, 
In the 
1970's the world will undergo famines—hundreds 
of millions of people are going to starve to death in 
spite of any crash programs embarked upon now. 
At this late date nothing can prevent a substantial 
increase in the world death rate, although many 
and are devoured by the circling sharks. A group of — 
to avoid each other. 
The consequences will dominate our 
lives. In the heart of the problem are the solutions, and the 
sooner we’re clear about what’s happening the sooner the 
solutions can work their way out. 
This book is the best first 
_hard look that’s around. 
The author is a well-regarded young 
population biologist and ecologist who freaked out of his lab 
and into the media with the bad news. Besides freaking well 
he reports well, 
_SB 
The Population Bomb 
Dr, Paul R. Ehrlich 
1968; 223 pp. 
$.95 postpaid from 
Ballantine Books, Inc. 
c/o Simon & Schuster, Inc. 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10020 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
It is, of course, socially very acceptable to reduce 
the death rate. 
Billions of years of evolution have 
given us all a powerful will to live. Intervening in 
the birth rate goes against our evolutionary values. 
. During all those centuries of our evolutionary past, 
the individuals who had the most children passed on 
their genetic endowment in greater quantities than 
those who reproduced less. Their genes dominate 
our heredity today. 
While you ara reading these 
wortls five people, mostly children, 
> 
hove dixd of starvotion 
and forty more babies have been bara, 
Ay the ca-auther el Rew Bs Be & Sarviver’ 
The reproductive function of sex must be shown as 
just one of its functions, and one that must be care- 
fully regulated in relation to the needs of the 
individual and society. Much emphasis must be 
placed on sex as an interpersonal relationship, as an 
important and extremely pleasurable aspect of 
being human, as mankind’s major and most enduring 
recreation, as a fountainhead of his humor, asa 
phenomenon that affects every aspect of his being 
lives could be saved through dramatic programs to 
‘stretch’ the carrying capacity of the earth by in- 
creasing food production. 
But these programs will 
only provide a stay of execution unless they are 
accompénied by determined and successful efforts 
at population control. Population control is the 
conscious regulation of the numbers of human 
beings to meet the needs, not just of individual 
families, but of society as a whole. 
Nothing could be more misleading to our children 
than our present affiuent society. They will inherit 
a totally different world, a world in which the 
standards, politics, and economics of the 1960's are 
dead. As the most powerful nation in the world 
today, and its largest consumer, the United States 
cannot stand isolated. We are today involved in the 
events leading to famine; tomorrow we may be 
destroyed by its consequences. 
® 
Remémber also that in virtually all underdeveloped 
countries, people have gotten the word about the 
better life it is possible to have. They have seen 
colored pictures in magazines of the miracles of 
Western technology. They have seen automobiles 
and airplanes. They have seen American and Eurp- 
pean movies. Many have seen refrigerators, tractors, 
and even TV sets. Almost all have heard transistor 
radios. They know that a better life is possible. 
They have what we like to call ‘rising expectations.’ 
If twice as many people are to be happy, the miracle 
of doubling what they now have will not be enough. 
It will only maintain today’s standard of living. 
There will have to be a tripling or better. Needless 
~ seem to be powerful carcinogens—cancer-producing 
wh 
A ship has hit the rocks and is sinking. The 
passengers scream for help. Some jump overboard 
distinguished scientists is on board. One of their 
number suggests that they can help man the pumps. 
‘Oh, no!’ shout the others. “That might hurt the 
captain's feelings. Besides, pumping is not our 
business. 
It’s outside our field of competence.’ You 
can guess what they do. They appoint a committee 
to study the problem, with subcommittees on marine 
— 
engineering and navigation. They announce to the - 
passengers that in two or three years the committee 
will produce a wonderful report which will be 
_ 
acceptable to the passengers, the captain, and the 
steamship line. Not so passive are the politicians. 
Some jump up to say that the passengers don’t 
understand the political realities of the situation, 
Other more progressive politicians grab thimbles and 
start bailing, stopping every few seconds to accept 
praise for their valiant efforts. 
; 
Careless overuse of DDT has promoted to ‘pest’ 
category many species of mites, little insectlike 
relatives of spiders. The insects which ate the mites. 
were killed by the DDT, and the mites were resis- 
tant to DDT. There you have it—instant pests, and 
more profits for the agricultural chemical industry 
in fighting these Frankensteins of their own creation, 
What’s more, some of the more potent miticides the 
© 
chemists have developed with which to do battle 
substances, 
k 
: 
4 
e 
The old idea that industry could create the mess and 
then the taxpayers must clean it up has to go. The 
Population, Resources, Environment 
/n Population Bomb Ehrlich spared us the customary 
statistics and graphs, and he was accused of being no 
‘scientist. So here are the statistics and graphs and much 
besides——a 400-page textbook on the population- 
ecology crisis. Don’t bother taking a course. 
The /ab is 
the world. 
—SB 
Population, Resources, Environment 
Paul R. Ehrlich, Anne H. Ehrlich 
1970; 400 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid 
from: 
W. H. Freeman and Company 
660 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
INSTLDSS TMA PCOLOG, 
a 
See Epiiog, page 464 “The Limits to Growth” 
Population, Evolution, and Birth Control 
Once you've woken up to the population squeeze and 
the blindness of most of your fellow men, it’s worth 
looking around. 
Garrett Hardin has assembled a 
strong selection of eyes to look around with. Here 
are the ingredients for understanding. Now, how do 
we get the mule’s attention? 
SB 
The closed earth of the future requires economic principles 
which are somewhat different from those of the open earth 
of the past, For the sake of picturesqueness, | am tempted to 
call the open economy the ‘cowboy economy,’ the cowboy 
being symbolic of the illimitable plains and also associated with 
reckless, exploitative, romantic, and violent behavior, which 
is characteristic of open societies. The closed economy of the 
future might similarly be called the ‘spaceman’ economy, in 
which, therefore, man must find his place in a cyclical ecologi- 
cal system which is capable of continuous reproduction of 
material form even though it cannot escape having inputs of 
erer ays 
Kenneth E. Boulding 
Population 
Whole Systems 
to say, they are not going to be happy. 
The global polluting and exploiting activities of the DCs are even 
more serious than their internal problems. Spaceship Earth is now 
filled to capacity or beyond and is running out of food. And yet 
the people traveling first class are, without thinking, demolishing 
the ship’s already overstrained life-support systems. The food- 
producing mechanism is being sabotaged. The devices that main- 
tain the atmosphere are being turned off. The temperature- 
control system is being altered at random. Thermonuclear bombs, 
poison gases, and super-germs have been manufactured and stock- 
piled by people in the few first-class compartments for possible 
future use against other first-class passengers in their competitive 
struggles for dwindling resources——or perhaps even against the 
expectant but weaker masses of humanity in steerage. But, unaware 
that_there is no one at the controls of their ship, many of the 
Passengers ignore the chaos or view it with cheerful optimism, con- 
vinced that everything will turn out all right. 
e 
1877-1878 North China. ‘Appalling famine raging throughout 
four provinces [of] North China. Nine million people reported 
destitute, children daily sold in markets for [raising means to 
procure] food. 
... 
Total population of districts affected, 70 
millions. 
...’". The people‘s faces are black with hunger; they 
are dying by thousands upon thousands. Women and girls and 
boys are openly offered for sale to any chance wayfarer. When 
| left the country, a respectable married woman could be easily 
bought for six dollars, and a little girl for two. 
In cases, however, 
where it was found impossible to dispose of their children, 
parents have been known to kill them sooner than witness their 
prolonged suffering, in many instances throwing themselves 
afterwards down wells, or committing suicide by arsenic. 
@ 
All flesh is grass. This simple phrase summarizes a basic principle of 
biology that is essential to an understanding of the world food. prob- 
lem. The basic source of food for all animal population is green 
plants——‘’grass.’’ Human beings and all other animals with which 
we share this planet obtain the energy and nutrients for growth, 
development, and sustenance by eating plants directly, by eating 
other animals that have eaten plants, or by eating animals that 
have eaten animals that have eaten plants, and so forth. 
and Birth Control 
Garrett Hardin, ed. 
1964, 1969; 386 pp. 
$3.50 postpaid 
from: 
W. H. Freeman & Co. 
660 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
Population, Evolution 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
garbage produced by an industry is the responsibility 
of that industry. 
~ 
: 
F 
Because, as indicated in the acknowledgments, the various drafts of 
Our manuscript were thoroughly reviewed by a large number of 
critics who are competent in the various areas covered, we believe 
that the factual basis of the book is sound throughout. We do not 
believe that such minor errors as may be revealed in any of our 
figures, estimates, or interpretations will change the thrust of*our 
major conclusions. 
!n many areas; of course, it is impossible to 
determine exactly what has happened, or to know what the sig- 
: 
nificance of certain trends may be. Data are often unreliable or 
— 
unavailable, and our understanding of the complexities of ecological. 
systems and human behavior is still fragmentary. But in dealing 
with the population-resource-environment crisis, it is important to 
recognize that people are going to have to learn to make decisions 
_ 
in the face of such uncertainty. Possible benefits will have to be 
weighed against possible risks, and a great deal of thought given 
to possible future events which may seem unlikely but which will 
be catastrophic if they do occur. 
\t would be a major step forward 
for mankind if all people could know the general state of the world 
and could be informed as to just what chances are being taken with - 
their lives and the lives of future generations. 
, 
; 
From the almost limitless number of subjects which might have been — 
included in this book, choices of those that were to be treated in 
: 
detail had to be made. We have tried to emphasize those which 
seemed to us to be of the most general importance, and we make 
no apology either for our selection of subjects or for the personal 
style and approach we have used throughout. We have not attempted 
to give equal weight to both sides of all controversial issues; 
where we think one side is correct we have so indicated. We also 
make no claim to having tried to detail all exceptions to general 
rules. We hope that this book will provide concerned readers with 
enough background to enable them to make informed political 
decisions about environmental issues and to combat what C. P. 
Snow has referred to as the ‘‘excessive unsimplicity’’ which, in 
his words, ‘’crops up whenever anyone makes a proposal which 
opens up a prospect, however distant, of new action. 
It involves 
a skill which all conservative functionaries are masters of, as they 
ingeniously protect the status quo: 
it is called the ‘technique of 
the intricate defensive.’ 
: 
_ If the food supply is falling short, or a new disease threatens 
us, inventions to relieve it must be made before famine and 
pestilence have done their work. Now, we are far nearer to ~ 
famine and pestilence than we like to think. Let there be an — 
interruption of the water supply of New York for six hours, 
and it will show in the death rate. Let the usual trains bring- 
ing supplies into the city be interrupted for forty-eight hours, 
and some people will die of hunger. Every engineer who has 
to deal with the administration of the public facilities of a great 
city has been struck with terror at the risks which people are 
willing to undergo and must undergo every day, and at the 
complacent ignorance of these risks on the part of his charges... 
Norbert Wiener 
t 
The rest of the night | lay there sleepless, trapped between the 
quavering human cry in the night and the cold fact that forced 
me to know | could not save him or the thousands of others 
— 
whose cries | could not hear. The next morning they came 
_ 
and told us that the beggar was dead. 
‘ 
Gerald Winfield 
