_ Vine is the perfect dude to write of current Indian politics. 
Son of a missionary, enough Sioux to be a Sioux, long 
“experience getting Indian kids into good schools, revved 
_up by The National Indian Youth Council stand-up-and- 
_ fight meetings of the late fifties and early sixties, levered 
into the key position of Executive Director of the major 
_ Indian lobby The National Congress of American Indians, 
| and after all that he’s thirty-five and still funny. He has what 
Alvin Josephy warned me about, “the traditional American 
__‘ndian cut-throat zeai for politics.” Add that to his humor 
. _ and his thoroughness and you have an unusually clear 
_ summary of the Indian situation 
now. His recommended 
| route for Indian survival is strong land-based tribal identity. 
Since Vine addressed his book primarily to young Indians, 
_/ can’t resist a remark to young white Indian-savers: you 
can’t help anybody by saving them; that’s a self-defeat 
| program. Relax and appreciate. Custer died for your sins. 
_ Also your virtues. 
‘A long-haired artist famous former-dope-fiend commune 
| 
white person | know is busy learning from his Indian 
friends at the Taos Pueblo: manners. 
SB 
Custer Died For Your Sins 
| Vine Deloria, Jr. 
1 
1969; 279 pp. 
| $1 .25 postpaid 
“Avon Books 
|| 959 Eighth Ave. 
New York,-N. Y. 10019 
. or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
From 1860 to 1880, tribes were confined to reservations, as the 
. 
|| 
West was in its death throes. Churches 
began 
lobbying early in 
|. the 1860's at the Indian Bureau in Washington for franchises over 
| the respective reservations. Thus one reservation would be assigned 
| 
to the Roman Catholics, one to the Lutherans, one to the Methodists, 
and one.to the Episcopalians. Other churches were prohibited 
from entry on a reservation once it had been assigned to a 
‘particular church and 
could enter only with permission from the 
other church, It always bothered me that these churches who would 
|| 
not share pulpits and regarded each other as children of the devil, 
should have so cold-bloodedly 
divided up the tribes as if they 
/ 
were choosing sides for touch football. 
‘ 
| 
People have found it hard to think of the Indian Bureau without 
| conjuring up the picture of a massive bureaucracy oppressing a 
| helpless people. Right-wing news commentators delight in picturing 
the Indian as a captive of the evil forces of socialism and leftist 
| 
policy. Liberals view the bureaucracy as an evil denial of the 
inherent rights of a free man. 
It would be fair to say that the Indian people are ambivalent about all 
this. They fully realize that with no funds for investment in social 
| services they are dependent upon the federal government for 
services which the ordinary citizen provides for himself and which 
‘other poor do not receive except under demeaning circumstances. 
Yet they are also fully aware that the services they receive are not 
gratis services. Many services are set out in early treaties and 
statutes by which Indians bargained and received these rights to 
| services in return for enormous land cessions. 
|... the bureau should not be characterized as paternalistic. It should 
be characterized as ‘‘fear-ridden,”’ for the circle of fear that operates 
within it is much more detrimental to its efficiency than is its desire 
| to paternalize. 
-Peoplehood is impossible without cultural independence, which in 
- turn is impossible without a land base. Civil Rights as a movement 
- 
for legal equality ended when the blacks dug beneath the equality 
fictions which white liberals had used to justify their great crusade. 
| Black power, as a communications phenomenon, was a godsend 
_ 
to other groups. It clarified the intellectual concepts which had 
| Kept Indians and Mexicans 
confused and allowed the concept of 
| self-determination suddenly 
to become valid. 
E 
e 
' 
| remember spending a whole afternoon talking with a number of 
_ hippies who had stopped in Denver on the way west. They were 
- 
tribally oriented but refused to consider customs as anything more than 
regulations in disguise. Yet it was by rejecting customs that the 
hippies failed to tribalize and became comical shadows rather than 
modern incarnations of tribes. 
+ 
‘Hippies, at least as | came to understand them, had few stable 
| clan structures. They lived too much on the experiential plane 
) and refused to acknowledge that there really was a world outside 
| of their own experiences. Experience thus became the primary 
i ‘criteria by which the movement was understood. Social and 
economic stability were never allowed to take root. 
= 
e 
\ Robert Thomas tells a famous story concerning the Cherokee who 
had a white man kill his children, steal his wife, sell his cattle, -and 
burn his farm. The 
Cherokee chased the man for ten years 
ind finally caught him. ‘‘Are you the guy who did all those 
_ things,’’ the Cherokee asked. Yes, the white man admitted, he 
was the one. 
Well, you better watch that crap,’ the Cherokee warned. 
And that is my greatest concern for the Indian people. That we will be 
‘damn polite that we will lose everything for fear of hurting 
edne’s feelings if we object to the way things are going. 
a" 
Tales of the North American Indians 
most anthropology 
always seemed a little like 
legalized graverobbing 
to me. 
this book does everything 
through a cross-reference 
bibliography-type distance 
from the content classification system, 
but the tales survive. it is a 
fine readable collection of farout stories. 
— 
Tales of the North 
American Indians 
selected and annotated 
by Stith Thompson 
1966; 385 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
Indiana University Press 
Tenth and Morton Streets 
Bloomington, Indiana 47401 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The beaver and the porcupine were great friends and went 
about everywhere together. The porcupine often visited the 
beaver’s house, but the latter did not like to have him come 
because he left quills there. One time, when the porcupine 
said that he wanted to go out to the beaver’s house, the 
beaver said, “All right, | will take you out on my back.’’ He 
started, but instead of going to his house he took him toa 
stump in the very middle of the lake. Then he said to him, 
“This is my house,” left him there, and went ashore. 
While the porcupine was upon this stump he began singing a 
song, ‘‘Let it become frozen. 
Let it become frozen so that | 
can cross to Wolverine-man’s place.’ He meant that he 
wanted to walk ashore on the ice. So the surface of the lake 
froze, and he walked home. 
Some time after this, when the two friends were again 
playing together, the porcupine said, ““You come now. 
It is 
my turn to carry you on my back.” Then the beaver got on 
the porcupine’s back, and the porcupine took him to the top 
of a very high tree, after which he came down and left him. 
For a long time the beaver did not know how to get down, 
but finally he climbed down, and they saw that this is what 
gives the broken appearance to tree bark. 
The Eagle, The Jaguar, and the Serpent 
i've had this book out of the library for about four years 
now, and haven't read the text yet, got 
my money’s worth 
out of the illustrations. 
The Eagle, the Jaguar, 
and the Serpent: 
Indian Art of the Americas 
Miguel Covarrubias 
1954; 314 pp. 
$20.00 postpaid 
IIIA 
IC, 
cama 
WEN 
AC 
seer 
SER 
Alfred Knopf, Inc. 
c/o Random House, Inc. 
Westminster, Md. 21157 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Sieriecliine 
/o9 
Leolvaterartte 
Ge 
SB 
64 
Hola Tso 
Sacred Knowledge 
Will you please reveal to me what knowledge of organization 
the Indians taught you. I have been wondering since the article 
in Rolling Stone a few months ago. Hope you will find time 
to answer. 
Love, 
Eileen O’Leary 
Vancouver 
Bue 
Anarchistic Indians, right? So | still thought until | attended a 
Navaho peyote meeting. The Roadman, Hola Tso, was in charge-- 
sat at the center behind the altar, handled all the major 
ceremonial changes, was aware of everything going on, had 
full responsibility and authority, was strict, was humorous, 
said very little, let most of the administrative mechanics be 
handled by the other officers Fireman, Cedarman, Drummer, 
Peyote Woman---one hand on the helm, sharp crew. 
I’ve been to glorious meetings, with big feeling and big 
learning: And to loser meetings 
. boring, depressing. The 
glorious were flexible, tight. The losers, loose, “democratic”, 
wishful, weak. That’s what | saw. The difference wasn’t 
Indian, White; it was responsibility, or not. 
—SB 
BEB RB EBBSRBBRBBRERSSBBSRSRBRRSRERBRBRBRBRB 
HEBER 
A 
Alcheringa 
If you like Rothenberg’s Technicians of The Sacred (p. 377) 
you can probably use his magazine of ‘World’s Tribal 
Poetries’. 
—SB 
Alcheringa 
Jerome Rothenberg, Dennis Tedlock, eds. 
$9.50 /4 issues (2 years) 
$2.50 /issue 
ya 
from: 
iat 
ee 
Alcheringa 
America, 
600 W. 163rd St: 
A Prophecy 
New York, NY 10032 
<2 
“You know,” Barry went on, “I! don’t guess | saw Emmit more 
than once or twice a year the last five or six years he lived, but | 
tell you, | was always mindful of him living up there on that hill. 
| use to know about everybody that lived on Trace Fork. 
| watched 
‘em move out one by one, till they wasn’t a soul living up there ex- 
cept Emmit. Of course it’s all ruined up in there now. But it 
seemed like as long as Emmit stayed on, the place wasn't plum dead 
yet. I'd been wanting to get up to see Emmit for a long time, but 
| just never got around to it. Of course, if I'd of known he wasn’t 
— 
going to be with us right on and on, I'd have made myself get 
around to it. But there you are.” 
“It really is a shame,” said Mrs. Thornton. “mean, me and 
Wheeler talked about going to visit Emmit too, but we just kept 
putting it off. It’s funny, how you'll put off things you intend to 
do, and put ‘em off and keep on putting ‘em off. And then all of a 
sudden it’s too late to do it even if you tried. | feel bad about it, I 
declare | do.” 
“We all could have done better by Emmit than what we did,” 
said Barry. ‘‘We sure could have been better neighbors than what 
we was.” 
(continued) 
Sees 
Indians 
Learning 
