he Future of Man 
‘oday technologically (and thus prlitically) 
roduct of several specific scientific 
at gathered steam early in the century—most 
notaw, 
medicine, nuclear physics, and investigation 
of materials. Since World War // the Information Sciences 
(computers, cybernetics, organization theory) have wrought 
considerable havoc and promise. Now we’re in for biology, 
says everybody, probably right. Molecular biology, already 
mature, has only begun to hit the fan. Ecology, though 
in great demand, has short supply so far. The glamour light, 
long in molecular biology, may now be migrating into 
brain science, the very heart of darkness. Still waiting for 
systematic study is the big version of brain science. The 
participation of consciousness in evolution. 
This book probably supports few of my assertions above. It 
is an authoritative up-to-the-year report on the state of 
biology by the leading biologists, with emphasis on 
unanswered questions and promising leads and possible 
impact of all this on society in the near future. It’s a 
heavy book, implying no lightsome future. Technology 
marches on, over you or through you, take your choice. 
—SB 
Biology and the Future of Man 
Philip Handler, ed. 
World Population 
1970, 936 pp. 
one 
7 
$5.95 postpaid 
5 
tle | 
from: 
H 
8 
Oxford University Press, Inc: 
Ls. 
1600 Pollitt Drive 
H 
9 
Fair Lawn, N.J. 07410 
Ha 
15 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
3 
30 
2 
100 
from the 
beginning 
im 
0 
200 
400 
600 
800 
1000 
1200 
1400 
1600 
1800 
2000 
Date 
1900 
Figure 20-2. World Population Growth (Projected with 
assumption of constant fertility levels and declining 
mortality) . 
... any desired number of genetic twins could be produced. It 
would require the collection of unfertilized eggs from the oviducts 
of many women, removal of the egg nuclei, and replacement by 
the nuclei of body cells of the chosen man or woman. This would 
be followed by return of the eggs to the uteri of women who then 
would undergo normal pregnancies. In this way one could produce 
multiple identical copies of any person judged admirable. 
At the present moment of extremely dangerous population growth, 
social\pressures are best directed to lower reproduction, in general, 
without qualitative considerations. But one day, when populations 
are stable, world peace is the norm, and man’s social and political 
institutions are sufficiently mature to assure that biological 
understanding will not be utilized to perpetuate injustice or 
strengthen dictatorship but, rather, to expand human potential, 
man will be free to guide his own evolutionary destiny. 
. 
. Man’s 
view of himself has undergone many changes. From a unique 
position in the universe, the Copernican revolution reduced him to 
an inhabitant of one of many planets. From a unique position 
among the millions of other species which evolved from one another. 
Yet, Homo sapiens has overcome the limitations of his origin. 
He controls the vast energies of the atomic nucleus, moves across 
his planet at speeds barely below escape velocity, and can escape 
when he so wills. He communicates with his fellows at the 
speed of light, extends the powers of his brain with those of the 
digital computer, and influences the numbers and genetic 
constitution of virtually all other living species. Now he can guide 
his own evolution. In him, Nature has reached beyond the hard 
regularities of physical phenomena. Homo sapiens, the creation of 
Nature, has transcended her. From a product of circumstances, he 
has risen to responsibility. At last, he is Man. May he behave so! 
Future biology 
Whole Systems 
! The Second Genesis 
What | like about the threat of total human control in 
the near future is that it obliges us to figure out fast 
what we are about. We got the power; here comes the 
responsibility. 
Whether you prefer to embrace it, or flee 
it (some should, for safeguard), or stay trembling where 
you are, you might as well have some detailed idea of 
what's looming. 
This book, by the Science Editor at LIFE, does good 
journalism on three spooky areas: Refabrication of the 
Individual; Exploration of Prenativity; Contro/ of the 
Brain and Behavior. 
Hypothesis: changes this radical outdistance the laws 
but not the economy. 
Control diminishes for governments 
and increases for consumers. 
The outlaw area of rapid 
. 
Wit 
ope. 
change. 
Witness dop 
: 
_sB 
Coming: The control of life. All of life, including human life. 
With man himself at the controls. 
Also coming: 
a new Genesis—The Second Genesis. The creator this 
time around—man. The creation—again, man. But 
anew man. 
Ina 
new image. A whole series of new images. What will the new images be? 
They will have to be quite different from the images we have known— 
the images that have led us to Vietnam, to turbulent racial conflict, 
to nuclear confrontation, to the threat of a polluted and overpopulated 
planet. 
But all these things have come about—have they not?—with man at 
the controls, more or less. 
If he is acquiring awesome new powers— 
and he is—with immeasurably greater controls, does this not 
accelerate us all, at uncountable G’s, toward the inevitable Dead 
End—a hundred bangs, followed by three billion whimpers? 
|f we believe so, yes. 
But man’s new images may offer us surprising alternatives. Their 
creation will require the energetic projection of the best minds of 
the race to the farthest reaches of their imaginations. 
Futile effort? 
Anything but. What we believe about man, what we want for man, 
will profoundly influence what actually happens to man. 
What would you like: Education by injection? A catalog of spare body parts? 
A larger, more efficient brain? A cure for old age? Immortality through freez- 
ing? Parentless children? Custom-ordered body size and skin color? The ability 
to convert sunlight directly into energy, just as plants do, without utilizing food 
as an intermediary? Name it, and somebody is seriously proposing it. 
In sober scientific circles today, there is hardly a subject more 
commonly discussed than man’s control of his own heredity and 
evolution. And the discussions seldom leave much doubt that 
man will acquire this control. 
It is a matter of when,not if. 
; 
} 
CO) 
ees 
The late Dr. J. B. S. Haldane, always intrigued by the bizarre, wrote in 
1949: “If King Charles |’s or King Louis XVI's head had been stuck 
within a minute or so [after their executions] On a pump which 
supplied oxygenated blood to it, it would almost certainly have 
come around, after half an hour or so, enough to open its eyes 
and move its lips, and would probably have recovered consciousness. 
| hope that if | have an inoperable cancer this experiment will be 
tried on me.” 
Could anyone ever replace a dead-but-frozen ruler? As billions of 
people were frozen in every generation, the dead might ultimat: ly 
‘own al! the property and hdld all the important offices. Barring 
the return of some sort of ancestor worship or a cult of the dead, would 
the unfrozen population put up with it? With life so overabunuant 
and so easy to produce anew, why should anyone want to go to all 
the trouble and expense of reviving all that competition? Those 
~ 
piled-up frozen corpses might in fact be fiercely resented. 
If the 
planet became desperately overpopulated, with prevailing under- 
nourishment and contempt for life, their very presence might 
even encourage a drift toward cannibalism. 
“There is no.doubt,” says Richard R. Landers in Man's Place in 
the Dybosphere, ‘that machines as a group will dominate man as 
a group, and eventually, individual machines will dominate 
individual men. 
; 
A 
ae 
: 
c 
“By dominate | mean control, regulate, restrain, influence, pervade, 
direct, guide, prescribe, etc., by virtue of superiority in all aspects 
of tasks demanding a leader.” 
The Second 
Genesis 
Alfred Rosenfeld 
1969; 327 pp., 
$1.95 
from: 
rats 
Pyramid Publications 
9 Garden Street 
Jarfalla: City of the Future 
STOCKHOLM-—The first city of the future will be built in 
Sweden. It will be called Jarfalla, have about 100,000 resi- 
dents, and be accessible by subway or highway from Stock- 
holm, just 12 miles away. No gasoline-powered. vehicle 
will be allowed. Noiseless electric minibuses moving at a 
soothing 20 miles per hour will pass within 150 yards of 
everyone's house, carrying passengers and baggage free. 
Rolling platforms something like horizontal éscalators will 
carry downtown shoppers on their rounds, underground 
heating will melt snow as it falls to the sidewalks, garbage 
will be collected by vacuums installed in each residence 
and transported through tunnels by compressed air to 
incinerators 30 miles away: Heat and hot water will be 
supplied by a single thermonuclear plant, 
the temperatures 
regulated by individual thermostats. The air will be pure, 
the smog-free light dazzling, the water delicious and whole- 
some, the streets impecable, the only sounds those of 
music and children at play. It will cost an enormous a- 
mount of money.. 
Alas, we cannot be all Swedes, nor can all Swedes live in 
Jarfalla. By the time there are 7 billion of us milling around 
the planet, 30 years from now—or 
9 
billion, 20 or 30 years 
from now— otr lives are likely to be arranged quite diff- 
erently. Futurologists hold out a considerable range of 
repellent prospects. 
Among the most cheerful is Nigel Calder, former editor of 
New Science in England, whose ideas go something like 
this: 
Those of us still living on land may be enclosed in anything 
from towns of 50,000 completely under glass to supercities 
of 50 million commanding nearly a million square miles— 
the size of Western Europe. But the majority of the human 
race will be settled on the sea, in floating towns reaching 
deep under water so that disturbance due to surface winds 
and waves—seasickness, that is—will be negligible. More 
likely than not, these towns will take the form of iceships, 
ice being unsinkable, easily landscapable, and relatively 
cheap to make and preserve (one doesn’t like to think of a 
possible power failure, but Mr. Calder assures us we needn’t 
worry). The icetowns would be protected against wind by 
geodetic domes, perfumed and decorated by thought- 
~~ 
fully contrived sights and sounds, air-conditioned to a year- 
round spring-like temperature, and supplied with food by 
ocean gardens grown either on imported soil or in enclosed 
and cultivated tanks of sea water. 
Limited as such nourishment may be to the palate, we 
might go down on our knees in gratitude for it, consider- 
ing the possible alternatives. About 4 or 5 billion people 
would be facing starvation, few of us could permit ourselves 
the luxury of real fruit and vegetables (acucumber, say, Or 
~~ 
a watermelon). Scientists having discovered that yeast can 
be grown on petroleum, vast quantities of this cheap pro- 
tein source can be grown to feed animals destined 
in turn 
to feed us. Three main production lines for animal protein — 
would then operate side by side. 
In one, cattle, pigs and poultry would be raised‘on plant 
material for meat and eggs. !n another, milk would be for- — 
med continuously by a culture of milk-producing glands, 
intended for drinking and making butter and cheese. Ina 
third, beef muscle would grow continuously in long tubes, 
extruding itself for chopping into steaklike portions. A 
complex of smaller works would turn out a selection of 
prepared foods — soups, sausage, bread, beer and so on— 
for national or regional distribution. Vitamins and flavors 
from national suppliers would be added as required. Orange 
— 
and lemon juice could be produced from cultures, with 
chemical processing of fibrous materials to add “bite.” The 
very rich could buy natural fruit and vegetables from mil- 
lionaire market-gardeners; the very poor could sustain life 
with combinations of plant and yeast material reinforced 
with vitamins—comparable, perhaps, to having all of one’s 
meals supplied by a domestic airline, with vitamins added. 
Mr. Calder does not go very deeply into the psychological 
side-effect of all this. 
Sah, 
If the effects on human beings may not be altogether fore- 
seeable, we are already getting some idea of what may hap- 
pen to the animals we'll be counting on, nutritionally. 
speaking. The latest method of pig-raising, for instance, 
already makes use of the production line, the pigs arrayed 
in rows before conveyor belts moving at a carefully calcu-_ 
lated pace with carefully dosed food rations designed for 
optimum fattening at minimum cost. The one hitch is 
an inclination on the pig’s part to go crazy; thus, the other- 
wise automated system requires a highly paid attendant 
whose only function is to watch for early symptoms of 
insanity and snatch the unfortunate patient from his place. 
at the conveyor belt, replacing him with another identical 
in appearance, within five minutes at most, before all the 
rest go wild. 
: 
* 
—Times/Post News Service 
Piety 
ski 
' 
¢ 
Moonachie, NJ 07074 
rs 
ohn 
| 
|
|
