N SOME CASES, THE 
evaluations in this 
Catalog are probably 
inadequate. All will 
become dated at some point. 
If you’re sure that something 
you know is better than what 
we've reviewed, have at us, 
so that the next Catalog will 
be more accurate at pointing 
at excellence. 
Our standard advice for writing a 
review goes like this: 
® Give the kind of information you 
would like to get. This should in- 
clude what the item is good for, 
how it compares with others, and some 
clue as to how competent you are to judge. 
Avoid comments like “This is a good book.” 
Prove it. 
© Think of yourself as writing a letter to an 
intelligent, uninformed friend about some- 
thing that is interesting/important to you. 
Be succinct. A paragraph is frequently enough. 
Introduce the item and get out of the way. 
You don’t have to analyze it, just tell us why 
you love it and why we should run it. 
© Suppliers are invited to suggest their own 
goods. Samples or review copies are wel- 
comed; response is not predictable. We ask 
for no payment and will accept none. We 
serve as an information exchange and owe 
only accuracy to suppliers. 
© We pay for everything we print, including 
complaint letters. You get $20 for a review 
and $20 for first suggestion ($40 if you pro- 
vide both). Cartoons and photographs earn $30 
and up. Payment for an article typically ranges 
from $100 to $500, depending on wonderful- 
ness, clarity, ease of handling, and provision of 
illustrations. The Review prints all lengths, 
from a few paragraphs to many pages. 
© Keep a copy for yourself. We are careful 
but not perfect. Be patient. We are busy but 
want to spend time with each submission. Send 
legible, typed, doublespaced manuscripts. 
® Avoid inquiry letters. We are less interested 
in the subject of your attention than in what you 
do with it. If possible, send the finished article. 
Enclose a stamped, self-addressed envelope. 
contribute to 
future 
Whole Earth 
Catalogs 
‘&2 
Whole Earth 
Reviews 
i 
; 
® Send submissions to: 
Whole Earth Catalog 
27 Gate Five Road 
Sausalito, California 94965. 
Whole Earth Review 
The research that makes this Catalog possible 
is an ongoing project (since 1975) that mani- 
fests itself four times a year as a 144-page 
journal called Whole Earth Review (formerly 
CoEvolution Quarterly). We think of it as a 
quarterly update to the Whole Earth Catalog. 
About a third of each issue is devoted to 
reviewing items that have turned up since 
the last Catalog was completed. The rest is 
essays, unorthodox technical/ 
scientific/sociological articles, 
first-hand reports of intriguing ex- 
periments, art, cartoons, and 
anything else that might qualify 
as conceptual news. 
A startling proportion of this Cat- 
alog first appeared in the Review 
long before other publications picked 
up the ideas. For example, the first 
fifth of the Catalog features Gaia (p. 
10); SPOT space imagery (p. 12); bio- 
regionalism (p. 15); Gregory Bateson 
on cybernetics (p. 22); Cellular Auto- 
mata (p. 24); watersheds (p. 32); 
permaculture (p. 62): each once a 
visionary article. We often print 
things that even the author thought 
were too odd to be printed elsewhere. 
That oddness has kept us going. 
Except for small “unclassified’’ ads available 
only to subscribers, we accept no advertising. 
This allows us a freedom to pursue unusual 
issues that a more commercial magazine 
would have difficulty persuading advertisers 
to support. Nor do we accept government 
or academic grants. We seem to be the only 
general-interest magazine in America sup- 
ported solely by its readers. 
We are reader-supported in another, equally 
important way. About half of the material in 
each issue is reader-written. The un-famous 
contributors say that it’s easier for an un- 
known to get in print here than elsewhere. 
Famous contributors say that they often pre- 
fer writing for Whole Earth Review because 
their material is handled with more respect 
by us than by other magazines. 
As a nonprofit educational organization, we 
price the magazine at slightly below our pro- 
duction costs. (Sales of Catalogs like this one 
make up the difference.) Four issues (one 
year’s worth) of ad-less wonderment and 
intellectual challenge cost $18. 
Send your payment by check, money order, or 
VISA/Mastercard (include card number, expiration 
date, and signature) to: 
Whole Earth Review 
Subscriptions, Dept. A 
27 Gate Five Road 
Sausalito, CA 94965 
Subscriptions: $18/year (4 issues) for U.S. surface mail; 
$25 for U.S./Canadian Ist Class; $22 Canadian/foreign 
surface mail; $34 for foreign air. 
Certain back issues of Whole Earth Review and CoEvolution 
are available from Whole Earth Access (p. 3). 
