————————— 
The Esalen Catalog 
Though you can’t get a seminar at the Esalen Institute 
hot springs on the California Big Sur coast through the 
mail, you can get their catalog, survey the offerings 
along several dimensions of humanistic psychology, and 
go to Big Sur for one hell of a weekend. Since 1962 
Esalen has been the stage where new acts and new actors 
try out the Human Potential big time. | —Stewart Brand 
® 
Approaches to Christian Mysticism 
Brother David Steindl-Rast 
Awareness of Eastern mysticism makes many people ask: 
what of the mystical tradition in the West? Is it still alive? 
Can one find meaning in it today? Brother David has 
spent more than 30 years in both Eastern and Western 
monasteries exploring the roots of mysticism in the hu- 
man heart. He will lead participants in discovering these 
roots in their own life experience. We shall ask what the 
pursuit of the path of the heart demands from each one 
personally, and how it can be practiced in one’s daily life. 
Like Thomas Merton, his late fellow monk and friend, 
Brother David is a bridge-builder between East and 
West. The focus of this weekend, however, will be on 
the Christian tradition and on our need to wrestle with 
it. Input and question periods will alternate with silent 
time for guided experience. 
CLASSES AND APPRENTICESHIPS 
Naropa Institute 
In Boulder, Colorado, a robust and innovative school 
has grown up around Chogyam Trungpa. Theater, music, 
dance, science, martial arts, poetry, calligraphy, and 
psychology are some of the courses. Leading artists, 
philosophers, and spiritual teachers regularly hold 
—Stewart Brand 
forth. Impressive operation. 
Naropa institute 
Catalog $4 from: 
Naropa Institute 
2130 Arapahoe Avenue 
Boulder, CO 80302 
e 
Space Awareness Practice 
Five specially designed 
rooms of different archi- 
tecture, color, lighting, 
and emotional quality are 
the setting for this prac- 
tice. The purpose of the 
practice is to become 
more precise about the 
continuous interaction be- 
tween one’s environment, 
one’s body sensibilities, 
and one’s state of mind. 
Apprenticeship in Craft 
Both craftspeople considering taking on apprentices and 
those thinking of apprenticing themselves to a master 
craftsperson to learn a craft should read this thoughtful 
book before taking another step. It will give you a sense 
of all that is involved in the apprentice-master relation- 
ship. Detailed information is given on the pros and cons 
of apprenticeships as well as on contracts, payments, 
work arrangements, evaluation, termination, and other 
facets of apprenticeships. The book is a series of musings 
by 45 craftspeople, administrators, and educators who 
have been personally involved in apprenticeships. It 
sounds like the truth. 
—Marilyn Green 
Sam Maloof, furniture maker, with apprentice 
Jerry Marcotte. 
LR 
NT GG GL 
SS TE 
ENT TE 
EE 
EE OE ESE 
© Tom Brown’s newest book is 
Tom Brown's Guide to Wild Edible and Medicinal Plants: 
Tom Brown, Jr., 1985; 234 pp. $7.95 ($8.70 postpaid) from 
Berkley Publishing Group, 390 Murray Hill Pkwy., East 
Rutherford, NJ 07073. 
¢ Tom Brown also has a series of field guides on wilderness 
and urban survival and various nature observation skills. 
| am direct about what | have to offer in the way of 
studio time and materials. In fact, | once wrote lists of 
“what | expect’’ and ‘‘what | offer,’’ to clarify these 
areas for myself. | now show these lists to prospective 
apprentices. I’ve lost a few promising people by using 
such a direct approach, but I’m convinced it was for 
the best. 
During the interview, | look for maturity (which seems to 
have little correlation with age), a sense of commitment 
to clay, and motivation. | also look for some kind of pos- 
itive chemistry. An apprentice becomes an important 
part of my life. | have to feel free to be myself and to 
work with someone who will fit into my lifestyle. 
Perhaps more important, | look for the ability to take 
initiative and solve problems. The apprentice should 
have the ability to function independently and add to 
the workings of the studio. He should be able to insti- 
tute better ways of doing things. | always hope to learn 
as | teach, and | consider any new idea a “‘payoff.’’ 
The Tracker School 
Tom Brown, Jr., grew up in the desolate New Jersey Pine 
Barrens. He was schooled mercilessly but compassionate- 
ly in woodlore and survival by his best friend’s father, a 
Navajo tracker named Stalking Wolf. With a consum- 
mate storyteller’s skill (perhaps that of his coauthor) he 
entices the rest of us by telling how he exchanged his 
small-town-boy’s self-centeredness for the cunning, obser- 
vant care, and sheer goodheartedness of a tracker. The 
result is a masterpiece of lore about how to see and how 
to learn: two books (with more coming soon). The Tracker 
was the first and is, so far, the most powerful. The Search 
is its sequel. It includes the thoughts that led to the founding 
of The Tracker School. The school emphasizes the increas- 
ing of your sensitivity to what’s going on around you. It 
is claimed that an apt student will be able to sneak up 
to deer close enough to touch one. From what we’ve 
heard, the course work is a good antidote to our lack 
of education in the ways of nature. 
—Art Kleiner, Becca Herber, and JB 
LEARNING 377 
The Esalen 
Catalog 
Catalog free; 
subscription $10 
(3 issues plus other 
mailings) from: 
Esalen Institute 
Big Sur, CA 93920 
Apprenticeship 
in Craft 
Gerry Williams, Editor 
1981; 215 pp. 
$9.50 
postpaid from: 
Studio Potter Books 
Box 65 
Goffstown, NH 03045 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Tracker* 
Tom Brown, Jr. and 
William Jon Watkins 
1978; 229 pp. 
$3.50 
($5 postpaid) 
The Search* 
Tom Brown, Jr. 
and William Owen 
1980; 219 pp. 
$6.95 
($8.45 postpaid) 
The Tracker School 
Courses $465-515 
Catalog free 
All from: 
The Tracker, Inc. 
P. O. Box 173 
Ashbury, NJ 08802 
*or Whole Earth Access 
