60 LAND USE 
Soil and 
Civilization 
Edward Hyams 
1976; 312 pp. 
$14.95 
($16.45 postpaid) from: 
State Mutual Books 
521 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10017 
or Whole Earth Access 
Soil Erosion 
Sandra S. Batie 
1983; 136 pp. 
$8.50 
($10.50 postpaid) from: 
The Conservation 
Foundation 
1255 23rd Street NW 
Suite 200 
Washington, DC 20037 
or Whole Earth Access 
Ecology of 
Compost 
Daniel L. Dindal 
1976; 12 pp. 
25 cents postpaid 
from: 
State University of New 
York, College of 
Environmental Science 
and Forestry 
Syracuse, NY 13210 
6 
who we are. 
5 ‘) 
HE ENDLESS BALANCING ACTS of civilization get played out on the land. Here 
- starvation, there economic collapse from oversupply. Here urban claustrophobia, there 
| rural loneliness. Human life dangles on a few threads — sunshine, rainfall and topsoil. 
f=! From these come plants, and the kind of relationship we have with green things defines 
—Richard Nilsen 
Soil and Civilization 
Edward Hyams writes the first and best ‘‘watershed 
history’’ of ancient and present civilizations. Rather than 
focusing on the genius of Pericles or the naval talents of 
Themistocles, he focuses on the ultimate, long-term 
strength of Greece or any nation: its soil. He elegantly 
chronicles, for instance, how oak forest cutting led to top- 
soil erosion creating a subsoil economy (olives and 
vineyards) which made Athens dependent on naval trade 
to get topsoil crops (wheat). Includes the Euphrates and 
America’s dustbowl. If one book on history should be 
read by everyone, | would choose Soil and Civilization. 
—Peter Warshall 
® 
The Egyptians were not obliged to discover manuring 
before settling, not obliged to advance from soil/parasit- 
ism to soil-making in order to found cities. The Nile 
replaced every year what the Egyptians took out of it. 
Many advantages of the Egyptian and of Mesopotamian 
environment have been put forward to explain the 
precocious rise of their urban civilizations, while the 
peoples of other regions were still held back in the 
simpler ways of Neolithic culture. But the attribute of the 
Nile valley, which it shared with the Euphrates-Tigris 
delta, and which assured to the Egyptian and Mesopota- 
mian peoples their long lead in the progress towards 
civilization, was surely the one which enabled them to 
settle down and exploit the soils of their countries as 
soon as they had learnt to till them, and without having 
to find a way of re-making the soil every year. 
Soil Erosion 
No moralizing. No righteous insinuations that farmers or 
corporations are out to starve future generations by min- 
ing the nation’s soils. Instead, the political nitty-gritty: 
how terribly difficult it is to harmonize cash-flow problems 
(farm debt, land prices, fluctuating markets, federal sub- 
sidies, equipment purchases) and soil conservation prac- 
tices. Learn how “‘targeting’’ erosion-control funds to the 
worst situations can slip into pork-barrel funding; how 
cross-compliance policies (e.g., the feds insure crops 
against weather disasters in exchange for farmers’ follow- 
ing good erosion-control guidelines) lose control in times 
of high crop demand; how punishing farmers for sloppy 
land use practices has never worked; how incentives for 
farmers who rent must be different from those for farmers 
who own. 
This book competently fills a vacant niche, the niche of 
America’s most important politics — saving its topsoil. 
—Peter Warshall 
e 
Erosion not only robs farmland of its fertility, it also 
seriously pollutes the nation’s waterways. 
. 
. 
. Ironically, 
most Americans believe our soil erosion problem was 
resolved during the 1930s when severe droughts and 
dust storms swept across the prairies and midwestern soil 
accumulated on windowsills of the Capitol in 
Washington, D.C. . 
. 
. If Americans do not take seriously 
the accumulating evidence about the extent and conse- 
Ecology of Compost 
Backyard composting, brief and simple. Whether you 
have a window box or a whole farm, the principle is the 
same — take care of your soil and your soil will take care 
of you. Soils need to be fed just like people. 
—Richard Nilsen 
ARRANGEMENT OF LAYERS FOR COMPOSTING 
Et 
y SOIL, CALCIUM SOURCE (£99 Shells, Clam Shells) 
Z3° 
WOOD ASHES 
NITROGEN RICH MATERIALS 
such as 
MANURE , 10-6-4 FERTILIZER 
, 5-(2” GARBAGE AND LAWN TRIMMINGS 
OF J 
OE 
CP 
AE 
SOIL SURFACE 
quences of erosion, the country’s agricultural future may 
be undermined, perhaps not this decade or next, but 
sometime early in the twenty-first century. 
Erosion is a natural process. When lands are covered by 
vegetation, the rate of erosion is slow, approximately 1 
inch every 100 to 250 years, and is offset by the creation 
of new soil. But on lands devoid of vegetation . 
. . ero- 
sion rates increase by magnitudes. 
Sediment pollution from the drainage area of the 
Loosahatchie River entering the Mississippi River 1 mile 
north of Memphis, Tennessee, April 1968. 
© Some soils need fertilizer or minerals before they’ll grow 
crops. A soil test kit can tell you if your soil needs help. This 
kit includes a Soil Handbook. 
LaMotte Model EL Garden Guide Kit: Information free from 
LaMotte Chemical Products Co., P. O. Box 329, Chestertown, 
MD 21620 
¢ See also ‘‘earthworms,”’ p. 82. 
