56 
Decorated beaver skin. 
—Vol. 15: Northeast 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
NATIVE AMERICA 
The Sacred 
| love this book. | read it like Jews and Christians read the 
Bible or Asian peoples read Confucius or Buddhists their 
sutras. Life may be complex, but the religious principles 
of traditional native peoples are simple, straightforward 
and clear. The Sacred quietly, carefully and somewhat 
bookishly lays out the everyday morality of Native Amer- 
icans before the whiteman. This book is the growing 
bridge between modern Euro-American society and the 
strength, beauty and vitality of North America’s earliest 
inhabitants. 
—Peter Warshall 
This book was prepared for use by young Native Amer- 
icans and largely put together by Native Americans. It’s a 
spiritual field guide for North America. 
—Stewart Brand 
@ 
To us a clown is somebody sacred, funny, powerful, 
ridiculous, holy, shameful, visionary. He is all this and 
then some more. Fooling around, a clown is really per- 
forming a spiritual ceremony. He has a power. It comes 
from the thunder-beings, not the animals or the earth. In 
our Indian belief, a clown has more power than the 
atom bomb. This power could blow off the dome of the 
Capitol. | have told you that | once worked as a rodeo 
clown. This was almost like doing spiritual work. Being a 
clown, for me, came close to being a medicine man. It 
was in the same nature. (Lame Deer, 1972:236) 
Handbooks of 
North American 
Indians 
Reconstruction of > 
Tolowa dwelling house. 
Exterior viewed from 
front, interior from rear. 
—Vol. 8: California 
These volumes are the most straightforward history ever 
written on the peoples inhabiting North America before 
Anglo-European arrival. They are honest tracings of what 
happened fo each tribal group — be it extinction; exodus 
from their homelands; fusion with Anglo-Europeans or 
another tribe; or decreased or increased tribal sovereign- 
ty and power. There are superb essays of the peoples 
known (even to the Indians) only from artifacts and dig- 
gings. Each volume features an “‘eco-cultural’’ area with 
excellent essays on local problems . 
. 
. snow or heat, 
grizzlies or witchcraft, food shortages or war. In short, 
these volumes will be our basic North American Indian 
references for all time. If you have even the slightest in- 
terest in the human, ecological, and spiritual history of 
the place you live in, you will devour your regional 
volume. Six published. Fourteen to go. Great prices 
and photos. 
—Peter Warshall 
As usual, peerless work. 
—Stewart Brand 
Ishi hunted to live, used each hock and hair of the animal 
he killed, and lived in proximity to, and knowledge of, 
all animal life. 
—Ishi In Two Worlds 
Ishi In Two Worlds 
One August day in 1911 the last wild Indian in America, 
near gone with starvation, the rest of his tribe dead, 
walked into a northern California town. Adopted by the 
brilliant anthropologist, Alfred Kroeber, he lived his re- 
maining years in a California museum. This book by 
Kroeber’s wife reconstructs Ishi’s wild years in the Deer 
Creek area and tells with affection of his civilized years in 
San Francisco. For millions of readers, Ishi is our emotional 
link to native America. 
—Stewart Brand 
Adjustable 
smokehole 
Windboard 
Fire wood stor- 
age area behind 
partition 
Partition 
Excavated 
living area; 
sleeping area 
for women 
and children 
Ground level 
storage 
platform 
Handbooks of North American Indians: 
Vol. 5 (Arctic): 1984; 829 pp. $30.50. 
Vol. 6 (Subarctic): 1981; 837 pp. $26.50. 
Vol. 8 (California): 1978; 800 pp. $26.50. 
Vol. 9 (Southwest): 1979; 701 pp. $24.50. 
Vol. 11 (Great Basin): 1986; 868 pp. $28.50. 
Vol. 15 (Northeast): 1978; 924 pp. $28.50. 
All postpaid from Smithsonian Institution Press, P. O. Box 
4866/Hampden Station, Baltimore, MD 21211 (or Whole 
Earth Access). 
Black Elk Speaks 
The Pueblo tribes don’t go in for visionary solitary 
mystical whizbangs. (Of all of them only Taos is into 
peyote very much.) The plains tribes are something else 
however. Their lives turned on their visions — solo 
manhood transports, dreams, name visions, sun dance 
ordeals, battle ecstasy, doctoring sessions . 
. 
. and later, 
ghost dance and peyote. This book is the power vision of 
one Oglala Sioux — and the extraordinary man it made. 
Black Elk’s account, besides affording unusual insight into 
Sioux life and historical figures such as Crazy Horse, 
demonstrates the manner of recognizing a serious vision 
and being responsible for it, and the burden, joy and 
power of doing that. 
—Stewart Brand 
e 
Then | was standing on the highest mountain of them all, 
and round about beneath me was the whole hoop of the 
world. And while | stood there | saw more than | can tell 
and | understood more than | saw; for | was seeing in a 
sacred manner the shapes of all things in the spirit, and 
the shape of all shapes as they must live together like 
one being. And | saw that the sacred hoop of my people 
was one of many hoops that made one circle, wide as 
daylight and as starlight, and in the center grew one 
mighty flowering tree to shelter all the children of one 
mother and one father. And | saw that it was holy. 
Black Elk said the mountain he stood upon in his vision 
was Harney Peak, in the Black Hills. “But anywhere is 
the center of the world,’’ he added. 
e For young and old alike, Man in Nature (p. 387) provides 
the best introduction to pre-Columbian North America. 
e A rip-roaring, controversial study of Celtic and Semitic 
migrations to pre-Columbian North America. 
America B.C.: Barry Fell, 1976; 312 pp. $9.95 postpaid from 
Simon & Schuster, Mail Order Sales, 200 Old Tappan Road, 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 (or Whole Earth Access). 
