WHOLE SYSTEMS 
58 WORLD BIOMES 
oe 
HE TROPICAL HUMID FORESTS, aka “rainforests,” form a somber, green girdle around 
the equator. Shrouded in clouds, known for their steamy heat, they may support as many as 
one hundred species of trees in a single acre. Here is access to the fastest disappearing bioregion 
of the planet. For sheer enjoyment and a solid introduction, read the extravagantly illustrated 
Jungles. For the most affectionate portrayal of peoples evolved into rainforest life, read The Forest People, 
a study of the BaMbuti Pygmies of the Congo; it is and will remain a classic of anthropology. For a con- 
temporary view, literate and concerned, Catherine Caufield’s In the Rainforest reports on the destruction. 
For action, contact the Rainforest Action Network which has a monthly news alert about what you can do 
Jungles 
Edward S. Ayensu 
1980; 208 pp. 
$35 
($37.90 postpaid) from: 
Crown Publishers 
34 Englehard Avenue 
Avenel, NJ 07001 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Forest People 
Colin Turnbull 
1961; 295 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Simon and Schuster 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
or Whole Earth Access 
In the Rainforest 
Catherine Caufield 
1985; 304 pp. 
$16.95 
($17.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
Order Dept. 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
to help. 
—Peter Warshall 
A 
Leaves of the giant water-lily, Victoria regia, float on a jungle back- 
water in Brazil. These enormous leaves are up to 7 ft (2m) across. 
The pale, cream flowers of the lily open at night and some of the 
flower parts heat up through biochemical reactions. This distills a 
strong scent which attracts beetles to pollinate the flowers. Indians 
gather the pea-sized water-lily seeds and grind them into flour. 
—Jungles 
Whereas the other tribes are relatively recent arrivals, 
the Pygmies have been in the forest for many thousands 
of years. It is their world, and in return for their affection 
and trust it supplies them with all their needs. They do 
not have to cut the forest down to build plantations, for 
they know how to hunt the game of the region and 
gather the wild fruits that grow in abundance there, 
though hidden to outsiders. They know how to 
distinguish the innocent-looking itaba vine from the 
many others it resembles so closely, and they know how 
to follow it until it leads them to a cache of nutritious, 
sweet-tasting roots. They know the tiny sounds that tell 
where the bees have hidden their honey; they recognize 
the kind of weather that brings a multitude of different 
kinds of mushrooms springing to the surface; and they 
know what kinds of wood and leaves often disguise this 
food. The exact moment when termites swarm, at which 
they must be caught to provide an important delicacy, is 
a mystery to any but the people of the forest. They know 
the secret language that is denied all outsiders and 
without which life in the forest is an impossiblity. 
—The Forest People 
@ 
Between 40 and 50 percent of all types of living things 
— as many as five million species of plants, animals, and 
insects — live in tropical rainforests, though they cover 
less than 2 percent of the globe. . 
. 
. 
A typical four-square-mile patch of rainforest, according 
to a report by the U.S. National Academy of Sciences, 
contains up to 1,500 species of flowering plants, as 
many as 750 species of tree, 125 species of mammal, 
400 species of bird, 100 of reptile, 60 of amphibian, and 
150 of butterfly, though some sites have more. Insects in 
Camayura people of South Amazonia, 
dancing. 
—Jungles 
tropical rainforests are so abundant and so little known 
that it is difficult to establish an average density. The 
same report cites a recent estimate that 2.5 acres might 
contain 42,000 species. Ten square feet of leaf litter, 
when analyzed, turned up 50 species of ant alone. 
—In the Rainforest 
r 
Tropical rainforests are being destroyed faster than any 
other natural community. A United Nations study from 
1976 offers the most optimistic assessment of forest loss. 
It found that, of the 2.4 billion acres of rainforest left in 
the world, 14 million are completely and permanently 
destroyed each year. That is almost 30 acres every 
minute of every day. In 1980 the U.S. National Academy 
of Sciences announced an even worse figure. It said that 
over 50 million acres of rainforest — an area the size of 
England, Scotland, and Wales — are destroyed or ser- 
iously degraded each year. The most comprehensive 
study to date, published in 1981 by the Food and Agri- 
culture Organization of the United Nations, says that at 
present rates almost one fifth of the world’s remaining 
tropical rainforest will be completely destroyed or severely 
degraded by the end of the century. 
—In the Rainforest 
GS RS 
ae SET EL) CLE NLS OS AN RPE IE LI NSU RT VW ass I 
al 
Rainforest Action Network: Membership $25/year, $15 low- 
income (includes 12 issues of Rainforest Action Network 
Alert); from Rainforest Action Network, 466 Green Street, 
Suite 300, San Francisco, CA 94133. 
