318 
The Visual Display 
of Quantitative 
information 
Edward R. Tufte 
1983; 197 pp. 
$32 
postpaid from: 
Graphics Press 
P.O. Box 430 
Cheshire, CT 06410 
or Whole Earth Access 
belek 
about graphic 
Forget All 
the Rules 
Bob Gill 
1981; 168 pp. 
$17.95 
($19.95 postpaid) from: 
Watson Guptill Publishers 
P. O. Box 2013 
Lakewood, NJ 08701 
or Whole Earth Access 
Writing 
& Illuminating 
& Lettering 
Edward Johnston 
1977; 439 pp. 
$11.95 
($12.95 postpaid) from: 
Taplinger Publishing Co. 
132 West 22nd Street 
New York, NY 10011 
or Whole Earth Access 
COMMUNICATIONS 
GRAPHIC DESIGN 
An annual sunshine record reports about 1,000 
numbers per square inch (160 per square cen- 
timeter). The visual metaphor corresponds 
appropriately to the days when the image is 
reversed, so that the light areas are the times 
when the sun shines. 
The Visual Display of 
Quantitative 
Information 
THE visual style book. Turn a page in this 
finely printed volume and you'll be treated 
to another ingenious chart that is at once 
simple, telling, and beautiful. Flamboyant 
graphs, particularly those dressing up insen- 
sible data, are bad craft: ‘‘If the statistics are 
boring, then you’ve got the wrong numbers. 
The rules are like writing well — do it honest 
and clear. Tufte gives memorable, handsome 
examples of how to display information with 
integrity and clarity. The book is a good ex- 
ample. It’s one that you return to dip into 
before you pick up graph paper. —Kevin Kelly 
oe 
Forget All the Rules... 
As he was being taken away by the police, acrobat Philippe 
Petit explained why he had walked a rope between two of 
the world’s tallest buildings: “‘I see three oranges, | have 
to juggle. | see two towers, | have to walk. ’’ 
Seeing unique aspects in commonplace things is also what 
makes for original graphic design. In this inspiring book, 
Bob Gill showcases a hundred of his toughest design 
problems with his wittiest solutions. According to Gill, to 
arrive at a unique solution you need to define a unique 
problem. However, the complete title of the book is Forget 
all the rules you ever learned about graphic design. 
Including the ones in this book. 
—David Jouris 
| wanted to do something that was original. But | kept 
thinking of ideas based on images | had already seen. 
Then | realized that it was inevitable that my ideas had 
to be based on previous experiences. What else could 
possibly be in my consciousness but previous 
experiences? 
| would have to go outside of my head to look for an 
original idea. | decided that getting involved with the 
new problem was the most likely way of going outside. 
Of having a new experience. 
If | could express the uniqueness of what the problem 
was trying to communicate with an image which was 
valid only for that problem, then | would have invented 
a unique image. 
In other words, defining a unique problem would inspire 
a unique solution. 
Original problem: Logo for the Broadway musical Dancin’. 
It has no plot but many styles of dancing. 
Redefined: How can one image give the impression of 
many styles of dancing? 
Writing & 
Illuminating & Lettering 
Continuously in print since its initial 
publication in 1906, this is the text that 
anyone involved in the lettering arts ought 
to have. It has held an undisputed position 
as the best book on the craft of lettering 
for 80 years. 
Through his study of medieval manuscripts in the British 
Museum, Edward Johnston rediscovered the dynamic 
properties of the square cut pen as the essential letter 
making tool. Single-handedly he revived an art that had 
been killed by the invention of printing in the 15th century. 
Though somewhat dated in appearance, this book’s think- 
ing remains sound; its spirit is pervasive: “‘All things — 
materials, tools, methods — are waiting to serve us and 
we have only to find the ‘spell’ that will set the whole 
universe a-making for us.”’ 
—John Prestianni 
