Mysticism 
The mystical event is to occupy ONE. Every time it happens 
it is a life enhancer and a history enhancer. Evelyn Under- 
hill wrote this classic to gather and map the full range of 
Western mystical experience — Greek, Catholic, Protes- 
tant — and yours if you care to follow the steps. Each of 
those ONEs is unique. Each is the same. That seems pat, 
but this book approximately proves it. —Stewart Brand 
Where the philosopher guesses and argues, the mystic 
lives and looks; and speaks, consequently, the discon- 
certing language of first-hand experience, not the neat 
dialectic of the schools. Hence whilst the Absolute of the 
MYSTICISM 
metaphysicians remains a diagram — impersonal and 
unattainable — the Absolute of the mystics is lovable, 
attainable, alive. 
“All mystics,’’ said Saint-Martin, ‘speak the same 
language, for they come from the same country.’’ The 
deep undying life within us came from that country too: 
and it recognizes the accents of home, though it cannot 
always understand what they would say. 
e 
To go up alone into the mountain and come back as an 
ambassador to the world, has ever been the method of 
humanity’s best friends. 
Breakthrough 
At first glance Meister Eckhart, the great Dominican mystic 
of the thirteenth century, seems an unlikely resource for 
anyone immersed in current struggles for social justice. 
The sermons of Eckhart which have survived the centuries 
are absolutely giddy with a sense of unity with the divine; 
moreover, it’s a contagious giddiness that can leave the 
reader swooning. But behind that ecstasy was a disciplin- 
ed mind which had some important points to make. 
With these new translations of 37 sermons and accom- 
panying commentaries, Dominican author Matthew Fox 
does a yeoman’s job of making Eckhart accessible. Fox 
makes clear Eckhart’s love for the world and shows how it 
culminates in a compassionate concern for justice. This is 
a polemical reading of Eckhart to be sure — Nazi ideol- 
ogue Alfred Rosenberg liked to cite Eckhart in support of 
wholly different notions — but Fox’s reading seems both 
fair and true to Eckhart’s own intentions. 
Meister Eckhart was branded a heretic by his own church 
shortly after he died and he slipped into historical obscur- 
ity until fairly recently. This book is a significant attempt to 
reclaim him for our own time. 
—Jay Kinney 
The just person does not seek anything with his work, for 
every single person who seeks anything or even some- 
thing with his or her works is working for a why and is a 
servant and a mercenary. Therefore, if you wish to be 
conformed and transformed into justice, do not intend 
anything in your work and strive for no why, either in 
time or in eternity. Do not aim at reward or blessedness, 
neither this nor that. For such works are truly fully dead. 
Indeed, | say that even if you take God as your goal, all 
such works which you do with this intention are dead 
and you will spoil good works. 
—Meister Eckhart 
Drawing Down the Moon 
e Circle Network News 
Drawing Down the Moon is an intelligent, sensitive, well- 
researched, thorough, critical study of the modern witch- 
craft scene. 
It does an excellent job of dealing with 
subjects which are often misunderstood and misrepre- 
sented. There is a new generation of practicing pagans 
attempting to identify a spiritual tradition linked to their 
continuing personal and social concerns. Circle is the best 
way to contact them. 
—Martha Burning 
Drawing down the moon: one of the few known depictions 
of this ancient ritual, from a Greek vase probably of the 
second century B.C. 
—Drawing Down the Moon 
So perhaps the best way to begin to understand the 
power behind the simple word witch is to enter that circle 
in the same spirit in which C. G. Jung consulted the | 
Ching before writing his famous introduction to the 
Wilhelm-Baynes translation. Do it, perhaps, on a full 
moon, in a park or in the clearing of a wood. You don’t 
need any of the tools you will read about in books on 
the Craft. You need no special clothes, or lack of them. 
Perhaps you might make up a chant, a string of names 
of gods and goddesses who were loved and familiar to 
you from childhood myths, a simple string of names 
for earth and moon and stars, easily repeatable like 
a mantra. 
—Drawing Down the Moon 
Drawing Down 
the Moon 
Margot Adler 
1986; 608 pp. 
$14.95 
($16.95 postpaid) from: 
Beacon Press 
Attn.: Order Dept. 
25 Beacon Street 
Boston, MA 02108 
or Whole Earth Access 
Circle 
Network News 
Dennis Carpenter, Editor 
S$9/year 
(4 issues) from: 
Circle 
P. O. Box 213 
Mount Horeb, WI 53572 
LEARNING 399 
Mysticism 
Evelyn Underhill 
1911, 1983; 519 pp. 
$11.95 
($13.45 postpaid) from: 
New American Library 
120 Woodbine Street 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621 
or Whole Earth Access 
Breakthrough 
Matthew Fox 
1980; 579 pp. 
$9.95 
postpaid from: 
Doubleday and Company 
Direct Mail Order 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth Access 
Hanuman carrying the Gods 
Siva and Parvati in his heart. 
—Circle Network News 
