6 WHOLE SYSTEMS 
NDERSTANDING WHOLE SYSTEMS means looking both larger 
and smaller than where our daily habits live and seeing clear through 
our cycles. The result is responsibility, but the process is filled with 
the constant delight of surprise. Neither the Earth nor our lives are 
flat. What happened in the 20th century? The idea of self — the thing to be kept 
alive — expanded from the individual human to the whole Earth. 
—Stewart Brand 
Below From Above 
The best book of aerial photographs ever (133 — in color). 
What is unique is the captioning — Gerster knows what he 
is floating over, or he studies it until he does. He knows the 
history of places, and why the farmers do odd things, and 
what the tribe is after, and how to keep sand dunes from 
covering the oasis. The book is a four de force of form and 
content. 
The range is so worldwide and culturally rich that no 
reader-flier can escape wanting fo try things differently. 
That's the yield of perspective. I’ve seen no other book — 
not even the space satellite ones — with perspective like this. 
—Stewart Brand 
<q 
Battling wind erosion on a field near Wichita, Kansas. A 
sudden May wind spurred the farmer into action. He 
roughened up the soil with a spring-tooth harrow by driv- 
ing haphazardly over the field. He simply wanted to 
secure the largest possible amount of land against the 
wind in the shortest possible time and with the least fuel 
consumption. Uncultivated fields lack sufficient protective 
surface cover of crop residue. The dry, whitish crust in- 
dicates just how vulnerable they are when bare. In Kansas 
every year the wind blows away an average of three tons 
of soil per acre — only about four-fifths of a ton less than 
what is lost through water erosion. 
eS 
The village of Labbezanga, on an island in the Niger 
River, Mali. The granaries wind through the village like 
strings of beads. In them, millet and rice keep for up to 
three years, though in the recent past, during the seemingly 
endless droughts, the harvest has rarely been sufficient to 
maintain full capacity. The amphora-shaped mud containers, 
Below From Above 
Georg Gerster 
1986; 133 plates 
$35 
($37 postpaid) from: 
Abbeville Press 
505 Park Avenue 
New York, NY 10022 
or Whole Earth Access 
Powers of Ten 
Like the famous film of the same name by Ray and Charles 
Eames, Powers of Ten takes you on a photographic 
journey from quasars to quarks — 1025 to 10° — in 42 
incremental steps, each one ten times the next. The 
changes in scale are provocative and truly mind-expand- 
We: 
10?' meters 
107° meters 
Powers of Ten 
Philip and Phylis Morrison 
and The Office of 
Charles and Ray Eames 
1982; 150 pp. 
$19.95 
($21.45 postpaid) from: 
W. H. Freeman & Co. 
4419 West 1980 South 
Salt Lake City, UT 84104 
or Whole Earth Access 
10~? meters 
10° meters 
10'? meters 
some as high as the houses, are filled and emptied through 
an opening at the top. Stone slabs and fragments, jutting 
out from the body of the granaries like spikes, make them 
easier to climb. The villagers, settled, non-nomadic mem- 
bers of the Songhai tribe, live mainly in the traditional 
round mud huts with domed thatched roofs. In Labbezanga, 
however, terrace-roofed square houses of Islamic-Arabic 
origin are on the increase. Owning one boosts a family’s 
social standing. 
| have explained in the introduction why | felt like Colum- 
bus when | found Labbezanga. Beyond being ‘‘the most 
beautiful village in Africa,”’ it is also, according to the 
cyberneticist Frederic Vester, a shining example of an 
inter-connected system. For the unassuming Labbezangans 
almost too much praise. 
ing, because you can’t comprehend such matters without 
the aid of sensitive instrumentation (and some imagina- 
fion). It’s both jarring and inspiring to see how much of 
what is really going on is invisible to our five senses. 
—JB 
10° meters 
10 —'* meters 
meters 
