402 GATE FIVE ROAD 
y Stewart Brand 
Whole Earth 
Catalog 
BSED LR Sov 
Fall 197%) 
¥S 
HE WHOLE EARTH CATALOG got started in a plane over Nebraska 
in March 1968. The sun had set ahead of the plane while I sat reading 
Spaceship Earth by Barbara Ward. Between chapters, I gazed out the 
window into dark nothing and slipped into a reverie about how I 
could help my friends who were starting their own civilization hither and 
yon in the sticks. The L. L. Bean Catalog of outdoor stuff (p. 274) came to mind, 
and I pondered upon Mr. Bean’s service to humanity over the years. So many of the prob- 
lems I could identify came down to a matter of access: Where to buy a windmill. 
Where to get good information on beekeeping. Where to lay hands on a computer. 
Shortly, I was fantasizing access service. A 
truck store, maybe, traveling around with 
information and samples of what was worth 
getting and information on where to get it. A 
catalog, continuously updated, in part by the 
users. A catalog that owed nothing to the sup- 
pliers and everything to the users. It would be 
something I could put some years into. 
Amid the fever I was in by this time, I remem- 
bered R. Buckminster Fuller’s admonition 
that you have about ten minutes to act on an 
idea before it recedes back into dreamland, so 
I started writing on the end papers of Barbara 
Ward’s book (never did finish reading it). 
One of the main things that drove me into 
business was ignorance. A liberally educated 
young man, I hadn’t the faintest idea how the 
world worked. Bargaining, distribution, 
mark-up, profit, bankruptcy, lease, invoice, 
fiscal year, inventory — they were all a mys- 
tery to me and were usually depicted as sordid. 
I noticed that great lengths were gone to in 
order to prevent “consumers” from knowing 
that part of the purchase price went to the re- 
tailer. It seemed exquisitely insane to me. You 
sell deception and buy mistrust to no advan- 
tage. The retailer in fact earns his 25-40 
percent by tiresome work, but the prevailing 
attitude makes him out a clever crook. Ig- 
norance institutionalized. Would you mind 
leaving the room? We’re talking about money. 
At the time, in fact, finances were not parti- 
cularly on my mind. How To Make Money 
was not the design problem. (I’d heard and 
bought Ken Kesey’s advice that you don’t 
make money by making money: you have that 
in mind early on, but then you forget it and 
concentrate entirely on good product; the money 
comes to pass.) The problem was How to 
Generate a Low-Maintenance, High-Yield, 
Self-Sustaining, Critical Information Service. 
Easy. You name what you know is good stuff 
and indicate exactly where to get it. You do 
this on newsprint, which costs half of the 
next-higher paper stock. Low overhead at 
every step. Employ stone amateurs with ener- 
gy and enthusiasm. Build furniture out of 
scrap doors, light tables out of scrap ply- 
wood, work in whatever space you have. Pay 
your pros $5/hour (no raises) and the begin- 
ners $2/hour with $.25/hour raises every 
couple months. Employees fill out their own 
time sheets. If they get dishonest about that 
— or anything that hurts service — fire them. 
Spread responsibility as far as it will go, 
credit too. 
What you’re trying to do is to nourish and 
design an organism that can learn and stay 
alive while it’s learning. Once that process 
hits its stride, don’t tinker with it; work for 
it, let it work for you. Make interesting 
demands on each other. 
By June 1969, we were being mentioned in a 
lot of underground papers such as the East Vil- 
lage Other. And then Nicholas von Hoffman 
wrote a full piece on the Whole Earth Cata- 
log that got syndicated all over the U.S. We 
were caught. We were famous. 
Of all the press notices we eventually got, 
from Time and Vogue to Hotcha! in Ger- 
many to a big article in Esquire, nothing had 
the business impact of one tiny mention in 
“Uncle Ben Sez” in the Detroit Free Press, 
where some reader asked, “how do we start a 
farm?” and Uncle Ben printed our address. We 
got hundreds and hundreds of subscriptions 
from that. 
We hired more people. Deposits at the bank 
were more frequent. The bank officers got 
more polite. 
In September 1969, as I was driving up the 
hill to work, it suddenly hit me that I didn’t 
want to. Instead of golden opportunity, the 
publication was becoming a grim chore. I con- 
sidered the alternatives of taking my medicine 
like a good boy or setting about passing my 
job to somebody else. I’m sure I sighed unhappi- 
ly. And then this other notion glimmered. 
Keep the job, finish the original assignment, 
and then stop. Stop a success, and see what 
happens. Experiment going as well as coming. 
We printed in the September 1969 Supple- 
ment that we would cease publication with a 
big Catalog, The Last Whole Earth Catalog, 
in Spring of 1971. 
EANWHILE, business was still 
growing. The morning mail was 
a daily, heavy Santa Claus bag. 
Our stopping was primarily an economic 
experiment. Rather than do the usual succes- 
sion things, we preferred to just cease supply 
and let demand create its own new sources. 
Our hope was that those sources would be 
more diverse and better than we had been, 
or could have been if we had continued. 
So, in June 1971, we had the Demise Party 
celebrating the self-termination of the Whole 
Earth Catalog, and all in all it was a rout. 
Fifteen hundred people showed up. San Fran- 
cisco’s Exploratorium staff had their museum 
weirding around us full steam. At midnight, 
Scott Beach announced from the stage that 
these here two hundred $100 bills, yes, $20,000, 
were now the property of the party-goers, 
just as soon as they could decide what to do 
with them. 
“Flush them down the toilet!” “No, don’t!” 
“Give it to the Indians!” “Bangladesh!” 
“Our commune needs a pump or we'll all get 
hepatitis!”” And so on. The debate lasted till 
nine o’clock the next morning, when a dozen 
remaining hardcore party-goers turned the re- 
maining $15,000 ($5,000 had been distributed 
to the crowd at one wild point) over to Fred 
Moore, dishwasher. He later gathered people 
for other group decidings over what to do 
oor 
