HEALTH 
224 
Single female, age 21 
My dearest Andrew, 
It seems as if | have been 
spending all my life apol- 
ogizing to you for things 
that happened whether 
they were my fault or not. 
1am enclosing your pin 
because | want you to 
think of what you took 
from me every time you 
see it. 
1 don't want you to think | 
would kill myself over you 
because you're not worth 
any emotion at all. It is 
what you cost me that 
| 
hurts and nothing can 
replace it. 
Married female, age 38 
| can't bear the pain any 
longer. I'm tired, discour- 
aged and unhappy. 
Married male, age 52 
Dear Joan, 
For 23 years we lived happy 
together. Our married life 
was ideal, until two years 
ago when | witnessed 
Kristy die in the hospital 
something snapped in me. 
You remember when | re- 
turned from the hospital | 
broke down. That was the 
beginning of my illness. 
Since then my condition 
was getting progressively 
worse, | could neither 
work nor think logically. 
You have been thru “Hell” 
with me since then. Only 
you and | know how much 
you have lived thru. | feel 
that | will not improve and 
can't keep on causing you 
and the children so much 
misery. | loved you and 
was very proud of you. | 
loved the children dearly 
and could not see them 
suffer so much on account 
of me. 
Dear Children: 
Please forgive me. 
Love, Frank 
Let Me Die 
Before | Wake 
Derek Humphry 
1984; 132 pp. 
$6 ($8 postpaid) from: 
Hemlock Society 
P. O. Box 66218 
Los Angeles, CA 90066 
or Whole Earth Access 
SUICIDE 
to die, or because they don’t know how. 
BOUT 30,000 PEOPLE kill themselves in the United States every year. An estimated ten to forty 
times that number try to kill themselves but don’t die — either because they don’t really want 
Suicide attempters go through ordeals on top of the ordeals that made them want to die in the 
first place. When I was researching a long article about suicide in 1982 (reprinted in “News That Stayed 
News”), | heard about a woman who jumped from a high building and hit a parked car several stories below, 
but didn’t die. Instead she was wheeled, conscious, to the local emergency room. She spent the next year 
in bed, her still-suicidal mind the only functioning part of her body. 
People who swallow chemicals endure inner burns, stomach pumping, brain damage (from drowning in their 
own vomit) or unpredictable side effects. People who shoot themselves miss surprisingly often and cripple 
themselves. People who slash their wrists often end up with bruised wrists or damaged nerves. Many suicide 
attempters have no permanent physical damage; but they all go through some psychiatric “hold” process, 
which can last anywhere from an hour to 14 days. 
I’ve talked to a number of emergency room personnel about suicides; they agree that the most common 
reason they see is frustrated anger or just wanting to be noticed by a particular person. “My husband says 
he’s too busy to take me out to dinner,” one woman told the emergency room staff at our local hospital. 
“But for this he makes time.” 
If someone you know is thinking of suicide, or you think they are, and you don’t want them to die, tell 
them. “Please call me or call suicide prevention before you try anything because I care about you and I 
don’t want to see you die.” Don’t argue with them about why life is worth living; you can’t win that one in 
rational argument. Tell them how you and other people will feel when they’re gone. If there are mental 
health services you trust in your neighborhood, suggest them. 
If you are scared that you may commit suicide, and you don’t want to, there may be more options than you 
realize. Even if, like me, you distrust mental health services, it’s worth calling Suicide Prevention — where 
anonymous volunteers who have undergone rigorous, compassionate training will talk with you about your 
problems and possible alternatives to suicide. They’re listed under that name in the phone book white 
pages, or call the American Association of Suicidology at (303) 692-0985. 
—Art Kleiner 
Let Me Die Before | Wake 
The Hemlock group counsels people who face terminal 
illness and would rather die quickly and painlessly first. 
Their book describes several case histories and techniques. 
Personally, | believe most people facing painful death 
would be better served by other options — hospice care, 
home care, or pain relief centers. However, Hemlock’s 
book and newsletter can guide the people who need it 
toward a prepared, graceful exit — that doesn’t emotionally 
wound the people left behind. Reading about voluntary 
euthanasia makes suicide seem less like a romantic 
escape and more like a tedious chore. 
—Art Kleiner 
% 
It’s an obvious point — but one often overlooked for 
whatever reasons — that people who have decided to 
die alone because illness has made their life unbearable 
must decide to act before becoming absolutely depen- 
dent on others. It is necessary to decide in advance on 
the method and secure the means, and then act when 
there is no risk of interference. The means must therefore 
be fairly fast-acting and, as our stories have indicated, 
with drugs this is not always so. (Of course, if a person 
has decided to use a gun, these difficulties do not arise. 
But | have probably talked to more people intending 
voluntary euthanasia than most and have yet to meet 
one who plans their eventual death by shooting. A very 
few have decided on the car exhaust method.) 
—Let Me Die Before | Wake 
The Hemlock Society 
Membership $20/year 
(Includes Hemlock Quarterly 
Newsletter) 
Information free 
(address at left) 
After Suicide 
How to recover from the devastating fact that someone 
you love has committed a suicide at you. This book has 
what you might not expect from a series called Christian 
Care Books: lots of insight, some solid taboo-busting, no 
rejection of nonChristians and hardly any preaching. 
—Art Kleiner 
After Suicide 
John H. Hewett 
1980; 119 pp. 
$7.95 
($8.95 postpaid) from: 
The Westminster Press 
925 Chestnut 
Philadelphia, PA 19107 
You are going to feel a constant temptation to take a 
short backward look. Take a long one instead. People 
have been purposely taking their lives for thousands 
of years. Suicide shows up in all kinds of societies and 
throughout every historical epoch. It is as ancient as 
humanity itself. It occurred among the ancient Hebrews. 
The Greeks and Romans also were plagued with the prob- 
lem of self-destruction. They held a hard-line position 
opposing it, except for the Stoics and Epicureans, who 
adopted a softer approach. The early Christian church 
was forced to take stern measures to deal with the epi- 
demic of suicides that took place. So many believers were 
eager to gain heavenly glory that martyrdoms became 
commonplace. Augustine, and later Thomas Aquinas, 
labeled suicide a mortal sin equivalent to murder. With 
a few exceptions, they gave the church’s sanction to the 
civil laws against the act. 
