HEALTH 
220 
@ 
“9 
& 
ayahuasca understand. 
DRUGS: PLANT POWER 
# L ANTS, OF COURSE, are subject to as much moralizing as anything else. They provide our 
essential power — the energy to live, the medicines to be cured of diseases, the materials for 
a 
clothes and shelter, and the relief from ordinary, everyday experience. In preparing this page, 
we were shocked by how many books on all aspects of plant power had disappeared. It felt like 
modern humans wished to hide, and in some sense, deny the massive vegetative influences in their lives. So, 
with respect and rebelliousness, this page has mostly out-of-print books. Hopefully, the carrots and the 
—Peter Warshall 
Plants of the Gods 
Richard Evans Schultes 
and Albert Hofmann 
OUT OF PRINT 
McGraw-Hill Book Co. 
Medicines from 
the Earth 
William A.R. Thomson, 
M.D., Editor 
Revised by Richard Evans 
Schultes 
1978; 179 pp. 
$12.95 
($15.95 postpaid) from: 
Harper and Row 
2350 Virginia Avenue 
Hagerstown, MD 21740 
or Whole Earth Access 
Plants of the Gods « Medicines from the Earth 
Richard Evans Schultes has been the nexus of almost 
everything interesting and supportive concerned with 
economic and cultural uses of plants. Plants of the Gods 
gives precise and illuminating portraits of the many 
peoples of the Earth who pay homage and gain insights 
with the aid of psychedelic plants: an exquisite, thoroughly 
scholarly book. Medicines from the Earth has 250 of the 
plants most used for complaints and ailments. Cross-refer- 
enced by plant, illness, preparation (teas, compresses, 
etc.); best season to collect; and by chemical constituents 
discovered by pharmacologists. It’s the best modern 
‘herbal.’ 
—Peter Warshall 
A faded Romanesque fresco in the late thirteenth-century 
Plaincourault Chapel depicts the Biblical temptation scene 
in the Garden of Eden. The Tree of Knowledge, entwined 
by a serpent, bears an uncanny resemblance to the Ama- 
nita muscaria mushroom. There has been considerable 
controversy concerning this fresco. Some feel that the 
figure represents the Fly Agaric. 
—Plants of the Gods 
Dated somewhere between 200 B.C. and A.D. 100, the 
beautiful ceramic artifact from Colima, Mexico (above) 
shows celebrants dancing around a mushroom effigy. 
From this artifact and the relative size and position of the 
fungus, it would appear that the mushroom represents 
something akin to the World Tree, the axis mundi. The 
mushroom, with its peaked cap, could well be Psilocybe 
mexicana or a close relative of this species. 
—Plants of the Gods 
e 
It has been estimated that fewer than 10 percent of the 
world’s flora has even been superficially examined from 
a chemical and pharmacological point of view. Thus, 
the potential for new medicinal agents has hardly 
been tapped. 
—Medicines from the Earth 
— 
Some evidence, although 
weak and indirect, suggests 
that the Cree Indians of 
northwestern Canada may 
occasionally chew the 
: 
root-stalk of Sweet Flag 
. 
for hallucinogenic effects. 
In large doses, it induces 
visual hallucinations and 
has other effects similar 
to those of LSD. 
—Plants of the Gods , 
< Achillea Millefolium 
Yarrow, Milfoil 
—Medicines 
from the Earth 
YARROW 
Contains: Essential oil with cineole and chamazulene, 
bitter principle achillein, tannin. 
Effect: Antiseptic, antispasmodic, expectorant, stimulates 
secretion of gastric and intestinal glands, choleretic, reg- 
ulates kidney function, astringent, inhibits inflammation. 
Gather whole stalk or blossom when blooming (June- 
September), free from thick pieces of stem. Dry in shade, 
not over 40°C. 
—Medicines from the Earth 
SLES 
SS SEE SI ST 
DE TEST 
RS TES IESE SETS 
LSE SEIS SEE 
TI RTT ATG TIDE EET ITE TE TTT TEES, 
Wizard of the Upper Amazon 
Plunged into the middle of a jungle foodweb, only visions, 
plant narcotics, hunting skills, and an incredible intimacy 
with the natural world sustain Cordova-Rios. In no other 
book have | felt the mixing of human and animal and 
dream worlds to be so clear and direct. This book is far 
superior to anything Castaneda (p. 384) has attempted. 
The Huni Kui have pleasant and important communal vi- 
sions much more astounding and connected-to-life than 
the individualistic ‘‘fearful’’ visions of Castaneda. This is 
Wizard of the 
Upper Amazon 
($10.95 postpaid) from: 
North Atlantic Books 
F. Bruce Lamb : 
2320 Blake Street 
Houghton Mifflin Co. 
Berkeley, CA 94704 
$9.95 
or Whole Earth Access 
one of the best books | have encountered while reviewing 
for Whole Earth. 
—Peter Warshall 
| was still kept on a strict diet, and it turned out that this 
was to be a period of intensive training for me. Once 
every eight days | would have a session of visions with 
the chee These included examination of plants and their 
various uses both as food and as medicine, as well as 
further study of the animals. During the time between 
sessions | was taken often to the forest on both day and 
night trips with small groups of hunters. On these excur- 
sions | found to my delight that the intensified sense of 
perception and increased awareness of my surroundings 
originating in the sessions with the chief stayed with me. 
In the forest my companions would point out origins of 
sound and smell and continually test my progress in 
becoming completely one with the forest environment. 
