and Water to 
the Soul. 
The Hero With A Thousand Faces 
Myths and man’s dreamworld have, for the past fifty years 
or so, been the objects of various alchemical attempts at 
synthesis. The hero with a thousand faces is one of those 
syntheses. It’s about the mono-myth. Campbell traces his 
hero right out into the void. 
—J.D. Smith 
Isis Giving Bread 
The Chinese tell of a crossing of the Fairy Bridge under 
guidance of the Jade Maiden and the Golden Youth. 
The Hindus picture a towering firmament of heavens and 
a many-leveled underworld of hells. The soul gravitates 
after death to the story appropriate to its relative densi- 
ty, there to digest and assimilate the whole meaning of 
its past life. When the lesson has been learned, it returns 
to the world, to prepare itself for the next level of exper- 
ience. Thus gradually it makes its way through all the 
levels of life-value until it has broken past the confines of 
the cosmic egg. Dante’s Divina Commedia is an exhaus- 
tive review of the stages: ‘‘Inferno,’’ the misery of the 
spirit bound to the prides and actions of the flesh; 
‘‘Purgatorio,’’ the process of transmuting fleshly into 
spiritual experience; ‘’Paradiso,’’ the degrees of spiritual 
realization. 
Life After Life 
Truth is qualitative but proving something requires numbers. 
The author has investigated the experience of over 100 
people who clinically have died and then recovered. They 
all had a similar experience, and none had further fears 
of death. That may be sufficient proof for you to relax 
now about dying. Or you can wait for the truth. 
—Stewart Brand 
What is perhaps the most incredible common element in 
the accounts | have studied, and is certainly the element 
which has the most profound effect upon the individual, 
is the encounter with a very bright light. Typically, at its 
first appearance this light is dim, but it rapidly gets 
brighter until it reaches an unearthly brilliance. Yet, even 
though this light (usually said to be white or ‘‘clear’’) is 
of an indescribable brilliance, many make the specific 
point that it does not in any way hurt their eyes, or daz- 
zle them, or keep them from seeing other things around 
them (perhaps because at this point they don’t have 
physical “‘eyes’’ to be dazzled). 
Despite the light’s unusual manifestation, however, not 
one person has expressed any doubt whatsoever that it 
was a being, a being of light. Not only that, it is a per- 
sonal being. It has a very definite personality. The love 
and warmth which emanate from this being to the dying 
person are utterly beyond words, and he feels completely 
surrounded by it and taken up in it, completely at ease 
and accepted in the presence of this being. He senses an 
irresistible magnetic attraction to this light. He is ineluc- 
tably drawn to it. 
The reason why death is no longer frightening, as all of 
these excerpts express, is that after his experience a per- 
son no longer entertains any doubts about his survival of 
bodily death. It is no longer merely an abstract possibility 
to him, but a fact of his experience. 
Many persons report being out of their bodies for ex- 
tended periods and witnessing many events in the physical 
world during the interlude. Can any of these reports be 
checked out with other witnesses who were known to be 
present, or with later confirming events, and thus 
be corroborated? 
In quite a few instances, the somewhat surprising answer 
to this question is ‘’yes.’’ Furthermore, the descriptions 
of events witnessed while out of the body tend to check 
out fairly well. Several doctors have told me, for exam- 
ple, that they are utterly baffled about how patients with 
no medical knowledge could describe in such detail and 
so correctly the procedure used in resuscitation attempts, 
even though these events took place while the doctors 
knew the patients involved to be ‘‘dead.’’ 
The I Ching 
Gregory Bateson remarked once to his secretary, Judy 
Van Slooten, *’! am going to build a church some day. It 
will have a holy of holies and a holy of holies of holies, 
and in that ultimate box will be a random number 
table.’’ Check Bateson’s Mind and Nature (reviewed on 
p. 22). All originality, he says, whether in evolution or in 
human learning, comes from “‘raids on the random.” 
The ancient Chinese Taoists who made this oracle may 
have had a similar idea, or they may have stumbled on 
it or coevolved into it, but obviously it served them. And 
it serves us. It profoundly served the generation that emitted 
the original Whole Earth Catalog. Ending with this review 
is a piece of homage fo that time and those people, both 
passing rapidly, both remembered too easily for superficial 
and dismissable things rather than for the real risks taken 
with real clarity in the face of overwhelming opposition. 
Clink clink go the tossed pennies. How about a statement 
for the end of the Essential Whole Earth Catalog, ancient 
random number table . 
. 
. Hm, 51, The Arousing. 
—Stewart Brand 
; 
1. Chén / The Arousing (Shock, Thunder ) 
& = 
The hexagram Chen represents the eldest son, who 
seizes rule with energy and power. A yang line develops 
below two yin lines and presses upward forcibly. This 
movement is so violent that it arouses terror. It is symbo- 
lized by thunder, which bursts forth from the earth and 
by its shock causes fear and trembling. 
The Judgment 
Shock brings success. 
Shock comes — oh, oh! 
Laughing words — ha, ha! 
The shock terrifies for a hundred miles, 
And he does not let fall the sacrificial spoon 
and chalice. 
above 
CHEN 
THE AROUSING, THUNDER 
below 
CHEN 
THE AROUSING, THUNDER 
The shock that comes from the manifestation of God 
within the depths of the earth makes man afraid, but this 
fear of God is good, for joy and merriment can follow 
upon it. 
When a man has learned within his heart what fear and 
trembling mean, he is safeguarded against any terror 
produced by outside influences. Let the thunder roll and 
spread terror a hundred miles around: he remains so 
composed and reverent in spirit that the sacrificial rite 
is not interrupted. This is the spirit that must animate 
leaders and rulers of men — a profound inner serious- 
ness from which all outer terrors glance off harmlessly. 
LEARNING 
FOR NOW 40! 
The Hero With A 
Thousand Faces 
Joseph Campbell 
1949; 416 pp. 
$9.95 
postpaid from: 
Princeton University Press 
41 William Street 
Princeton, NJ 08540 
or Whole Earth Access 
Life After Life 
Raymond A. Moody, Jr., 
M.D. 
1975; 187 pp. 
$3.95 
($5.45 postpaid) from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, IL 60016 
or Whole Earth Access 
The I Ching 
Richard Wilhelm and 
Cary F. Baynes, Translators 
1977; 740 pp. 
$17.50 
postpaid from: 
Princeton University Press 
41 William Street 
Princeton, NJ 08540 
or Whole Earth Access 
