| 
i 
AVING COMBINES THE SPORT 
of exploring caves with the 
science of speleology. Those who 
overcome claustrophobia and fear 
of the dark to master the skills of climbing, crawling, 
and finding one’s way underground are well rewarded. 
Besides the sensual delight in rounded rock forms, 
in tiny hidden rooms and passage mazes far from 
the outside world, and in the discovery of secret 
places where few or no people have ever been before, 
cavers also find satisfaction in mapping caves and 
in learning about cave geology and biology. 
—Richard A. Watson 
Speleology 
This is the only short introduction in English to the science 
of speleology. It shows that caving can be an intellectual 
activity of the highest rank. There are still many unsolved 
problems in cave science. 
—Richard A. Watson 
me? UY 
A stalactite begins growing as a small ring of calcite where 
the surface of a water drop intersects the ceiling of a cave. 
This ring grows into a tube, which often acquires a tapering 
shape when water flows down its outer surface. 
National Speleological Society 
You must be trained in safety techniques, and especially 
in conservation methods for the protection of caves, which 
are relatively rare on Earth and which contain endangered 
animal species and fragile rock formations. Anyone who 
wants to explore a cave should write for information to 
the only caving organization in the United States, The 
National Speleological Society, Cave Avenue, Huntsville, 
AL 35810. Information free; membership $22.50/year 
including the monthly NSS News (available separately for 
$15) and their scientific journal, NSS Bulletin. NSS will 
get you in touch with cavers near you. 
—Richard A. Watson 
Caving 
A good general guide to caving. When you are exper- 
ienced you may disagree with the Larsons on some points, 
but they do provide an unambiguous standard for 
beginners. 
—Richard A. Watson 
The Longest Cave 
This is the dramatic story of several generations of cavers 
whose exciting and dangerous explorations in Kentucky’s 
limestone labyrinths culminated in the big connection be- 
tween the Flint Ridge cave system and Mammoth Cave, 
forming the longest cave in the world (144 miles plus). 
Here is the romance and adventure of big time caving, 
told by two of the participants. 
—Richard A. Watson 
e 
His chest stuck. 
For a few moments, Roger allowed himself to enjoy the 
horrible fantasy of being stuck there until Tom and 
Richard returned, his lamp out of reach, slowly dimming 
and then going out. Blackness. And then what if they 
could not pull him out or push him through? 
© Cave books and maps may be had from Speleobooks, 
P. O. Box 333, Wilbraham, MA 01095. 
Actually, neither the lamp nor the bag was out of reach. 
Roger suddenly exhaled all his breath, pushed hard with 
his feet, and ground his way through the tightest part 
of the Chest Compressor. 
Hands and knees crawl in shallow water. 
NOMADICS 
CAVING 277 
Caving 
Lane and Peggy Larson 
1982; 311 pp. 
$10.95 
($13.45 postpaid) from: 
Sierra Club Bookstore 
730 Polk Street 
San Francisco, CA 94109 
or Whole Earth Access 
Speleology 
George W. Moore and 
G. Nicholas Sullivan 
1978; 150 pp. 
$5.95 
($6.95 postpaid) from: 
Cave Books 
756 Harvard Ave. 
St. Louis, MO 63130 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Longest Cave 
Roger W. Brucker and 
Richard A. Watson 
1976; 316 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Southern Illinois 
University Press 
P. O. Box 3697 
Carbondale, IL 62901 
or Whole Earth Access 
