(Above) The 
transformation of 
a robot into human 
form in Metropolis. 
(Right) Fred Allen 
nearly escapes 
injury in the wacky 
comedy It’s in 
the Bag. 
The Video Schoolhouse 
How-to books, even the best, only guide you so far. At 
some point a how-to video tape, even a mediocre one, 
will open up better visual understanding (oh, so that’s 
how it goes!) so that the skill moves from your head to 
your hand quicker. Someone has finally rounded up all 
the how-to video tapes available for sale (over 1,000) into 
a fat mail order catalog. They seem to include every- 
thing, poor fo fair to excellent: sports coaching, health 
care material, dancing lessons, and the brightest of the 
Saturday morning TV do-it-yourself instruction. Self- 
education rewinds. 
—KK 
How to Rebuild Your VW Engine: Video documentary, in- 
cludes how to check for cracks, check case, warpage, 
align 40 hp rods, check cam and lifters, check deck 
height, do end play, assemble crank, assemble ‘‘bottom 
end,’’ how to use a torque wrench, proper ring and 
piston placement, and much more. (2 hours) 
AM022 $49.00 
Celestial Navigation Simplified: William F. Buckley is 
your dapper host on this comprehensive tape designed 
to help sailors navigate by the stars. (60 min.) 
BTOI] $69.95 
Quick Dog Training: Barbara Woodhouse demonstrates 
and explains techniques she uses in her wildly successful 
dog training classes. (90 min.) 
PA022 $59.95 
Video Times 
There doesn’t seem to be anywhere to turn 
except to Video Times for lively, intelligent 
reviews of material on video tape. In the 
evenhanded way Library Journal reviews all 
kinds of books, this earnest magazine is 
tackling anything on tape. Video cassettes 
transform TV and Hollywood material into 
personal theater (you choose what and 
when you watch), bestowing a relaxed in- 
timacy to an otherwise harrying and 
manipulative medium. The magazine’s 
COMMUNICATIONS 
broad reviews and 
groupings (drama, 
horror, documentary, 
experimental, etc.) 
reflect an emerging 
sense of video 
literature. 
—KK 
A The artist’s handwork is 
displayed on his subject’s 
back in Irezumi (1982), C, 
Director: Yoichi Takabayashi. 
Subtitled. Pacific Arts, 
$59.95. 
@ 
It’s in the Bag: Once in a while, a Hollywood studio 
would turn out a really demented comedy, and this is 
one of them. | used to catch this early on Sunday 
mornings on channel 9 in L.A., but now it must be 
something of a cult item because it seldom shows up 
anywhere. Fred Allen plays Fred Floogle, owner of 
Floogle’s Flea Circus, who inherits a fortune stuffed into 
the lining of one of 12 chairs. He spends the movie 
tracking down that chair, running into all sorts of 
oddball characters in the process, including Jack Benny. 
Leonard Maltin’s TV Movies 
The boom in home video has spawned its own guidebook 
industry. Everyone from Pauline Kael to Roger Ebert has a 
book of reviews designed to help the viewer find his way 
through the video marketplace. The standby in my house 
has always been Leonard Maltin's TV Movies. This $5 
volume lists over 16,000 films, making it the most com- 
prehensive guide available. Videophiles, late-night TV 
addicts, 8- and 16mm collectors, and those lucky enough 
to have a neighborhood repertory house will find Maltin’s 
capsule reviews and 4-star rating system right on target. 
—David Burnor 
Monster of Piedras Blancas, The (1958) 
71m. *'4 D: Irvin Berwick. Les Tremayne, 
Forrest Lewis, John Harmon, Frank Arvid- 
son, Wayne Berwick. Sluggish chiller with 
crustacean terror thirsting for blood on a 
deserted seacoast; obvious and amateurish. 
Monster on the Campus (1958) 76m. 
**14 D: Jack Amold. Arthur Franz, Jo- 
anna Moore, Judson Pratt, Nancy Walters, 
Troy Donahue. Above-par chiller involv- 
ing discovery of prehistoric fish whose 
blood turns a college professor into ramp- 
aging beast. 
a 
Four Arguments for the 
Elimination of Television 
Former adman Jerry Mander denounces the inherent 
dangers of a system where information is controlled by 
commercial interests and distorts our perception of reality. 
Food for thought if you're trying to kick the TV habit. 
—Fabrice Florin 
e 
A majority of adults, nearly as high a percentage as 
children, use television to learn how to handle specific 
life problems: family routines; relationships with fellow 
workers; hierarchical values; how to deal with rebellious 
children; how to understand deviations from the social 
norm, sexually, politically, socially and interpersonally. 
The overall fare of television situation-comedies and 
dramatic programs is taken as valid, useful, informative, 
and, in the words of the report, ‘‘true to life.’’ 
Most viewers of television programming give the program- 
ming concrete validity, as though it were not fictional. 
When solving subsequent, similar problems in their own 
families, people report recalling how the problem was 
solved in a television version of that situation. They often 
make similar choices. 
Even if a given subtle emotion can be conveyed from time 
to time on TV, you could never build an entire program 
on it as you could on violent emotions. In signal-to-noise 
terms the entire program would become indistinct in 
comparison with the background of more aggressive, ex- 
pressive and efficient action shows. 
331 
VIDEO 
Video Times 
Laurie Fortman and 
Amy Tao, Editors 
$1 9.95 /year 
(12 issues) from: 
Publications International 
3841 West Oakton Street 
Skokie, IL 60076 
The Video 
Schoolhouse 
Catalog $2 from: 
Video Schoolhouse 
2611 Garden Road 
Monterey, CA 93940 
Leonard Maltin’s 
TV Movies 
(1985-1986 Edition) 
Leonard Maltin 
1984; 1,021 pp. 
$4.95 
($5.95 postpaid) from: 
New American Library 
Cash Sales 
120 Woodbine Street 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621 
or Whole Earth Access 
Four Arguments 
for the Elimination 
of Television 
Jerry Mander 
1978; 371 pp. 
$7.95 
($9.45 postpaid) from: 
William Morrow 
Publishing Company 
6 Henderson Drive 
West Caldwell, NJ 07006 
or Whole Earth Access 
