34 
The Earth Manual 
Malcolm Margolin 
1975; 237 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
Heyday Books 
P.O. Box 9145 
Berkeley, CA 94709 
or Whole Earth Access 
—Stream Conservation 
Handbook 
punt Ns 
ey ae ane ™ 
Hee 
gp pane 
wert! 
Massachusetts 
Audubon Society 
Water Resources 
Publications 
Information free from: 
Massachusetts Audubon 
Society 
Public Information Office 
Lincoln, MA 01773 
The Stream 
Conservation 
Handbook 
J. Michael Migel, Editor 
OUT OF PRINT 
Crown Publishers 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
WATERSHED CARE 
HERE ARE THE EARTH DOCTORS? Healing land requires 
diagnosing the problems correctly, spotting the symptoms of 
dis-ease, organizing the recovery, and watching carefully to ensure 
against relapse. 
The Earth Manual 
Just like the man says: 
‘‘Between well-trimmed suburban lawns and the vast 
regions of mountain wilderness, there are millions of 
patches of land that are semi-wild. They may be wood 
lots, small forests, parks, a farm’s ‘back forty,’ or even 
an unattended corner of a big back yard — land touched 
by civilization but far from conquered. This book is 
about how to take care of such land: how to stop its ero- 
sion, heal its scars, cure its injured trees, increase its 
wildlife, restock it with shrubs and wild flowers, and 
otherwise work with (rather than against) the wildness of 
the land.’ 
A book of gentle advice and easily-absorbed wisdom. 
Great bibliography. 
—Peter Warshall 
—Peter Warshall 
If your problem is bank 
erosion, there are several 
steps you might take. 
First of all, stop all 
physical injuries to the 
banks. In particular, stop 
grazing animals (cows, 
horses and sheep) from 
breaking down the banks 
to get to the water. You may have to fence off parts of 
the stream and, if necessary, even build a watering 
trough away from the stream’s edge. 
Rock deflector. 
Next, you can build deflectors. Deflectors are basically 
piles of stone placed upstream from an eroding bank to 
absorb the force of the water. 
Restoring Our Wetlands and Rivers « The Stream 
Conservation Handbook 
The Massachusetts Audubon Society’s Water Resources 
publications are practical and philosophical introductions 
to protecting, preserving, and restoring streams. One of 
the many pamphlets from Audubon (Wetlands and 
Floodplains on Paper) explains how to use maps to save 
wetlands better than anything else we’ve seen. Write 
them for their ‘“Water Resources Information’’ form. The 
Stream Conservation Handbook remains the best educa- 
tion for anglers wishing to take action against stream 
degradation. 
—Peter Warshall 
<A Vibert Box with five hundred brown-trout eggs incu- 
bating beneath the gravel of a spring creek in Oklahoma. 
Salmonid eggs will not pass through ovular slots, but slot 
shape permits water circulation and frees young fry 
easily. Slot also prevents most predators from reaching 
incubating eggs. 
Restoring the Earth 
Breezy, thumbnail sketches of humans who spearheaded 
land and water restoration projects. Not a how-to-do-it 
book, but more like a rousing cheer, for the compas- 
sionate and caring U.S. citizens who are trying to do 
good for the Earth and its children. Stories include: clean- 
ing a river and lake, reclaiming prairies, planting redwoods, 
and restoring strip-mined land. 
—Peter Warshall 
@ 
Dominie plunged into the literature on lake restoration to 
find a treatment method. He discovered that a still ex- 
perimental process involving the addition of aluminum in 
the form of alum (aluminum sulfate) to eutrophic waters 
had been used with apparent success on a few small 
lakes in the early seventies, but the largest of these were 
only a tenth the size of Annabessacook. Restoration of a 
1,400-acre lake was ‘beyond the scope of existing 
technology,’’ as one district staffer put it. Not only were 
Restoring 
The Earth 
John J. Berger 
1985; 241 pp. 
$18.95 
($19.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
Order Dept. 
or 
400 Hahn Road 
Whole Earth 
Westminster, MD 21157 
Access 
those lakes small, but they were highly alkaline 
Midwestern lakes, unlike Annabessacook. Alum tends to 
acidify water. This was not a problem in the alkaline 
lakes, but it could be a serious problem in the waters of 
Lake Annabessacook. 
How can more lakes be restored and protected? Each 
troubled lake needs to be individually assessed, and 
solutions have to be designed for each situation. 
Without the necessary funds, this is, of course, unlikely 
to happen. Controlling nonpoint source pollution is 
usually the most difficult lake problem to solve. To have a 
good chance of success, all activities in a watershed af- 
fecting its lakes and other natural resources need to be 
evaluated and vigilantly monitored. 
¢ The watershed healing networker and giver of advice; all 
committed should read. Restoration and Management 
Notes: Bill Jordan, Editor. $11/year (2 issues) from University 
of Wisconsin — Madison Press, 114 North Murray Street, 
Madison, WI 53715. 
¢ The best overall text. Recovery and Restoration of Damaged 
Ecosystems: John Cairns Jr. and Kenneth L. Dickson, 
Editors. 1977; 531 pp. $25 ($26.50 postpaid) from 
University Press of Virginia, P.O. Box 3608, University Station, 
Charlottesville, VA 22903. 
¢ The best technical text. Bioengineering for Land 
Reclamation and Conservation: Hugo Schiechtl. 1980; 404 
pp. $30 ($32 postpaid) from University of Nebraska Press, 
901 North 17th Street, Lincoln, NE 68588. 
