100 million years 
\, ROR RRA 
Arid Lands ¢ The Mountain People 
In the lands with little rain, erratic rain, and/or excessive 
heat, a unique eco-culture evolved in nonhuman and 
human species. Arid Lands is a coffee table book but well 
researched with Time-Life photographic beauty. It ends 
with a peculiar optimism about turning the deserts green. 
On the other hand, 70 nations now confront expanding 
aridity. Never before has a combination of poor land 
management, misplaced foreign aid, self-serving local 
politics, and weather so dramatically led to starvation as 
in the recent drought in Ethiopia. The Mountain People 
describes what happens during famine better than any 
book | know. The fabric rips and we see the Ik (a tribal 
people of northern Kenya) possessed by a dark humor 
and seemingly cruel betrayal of even their closest kin. 
The best pamphlet on desertification is Spreading Deserts 
— The Hand of Man by Erik Eckholm and Lester Brown 
(Worldwatch Paper #13; see p. 92). 
—Peter Warshall 
A 
An Australian frog creates a moist world of its own for 
protection from the desert’s aridity. The frog lies dor- 
mant in its burrow most of the year, sheathed in a layer 
of skin that retains body moisture, and reemerges only 
—Arid Lands 
during infrequent rains. 
A comparison of present continental configurations with 
those predicted for 100 million years in the future shows 
a markedly different arrangement of land under the sub- 
tropical belts of high pressure (shaded bands). With far 
more land in the vicinity of lat. 30°N., the Northern 
Hemisphere will have a colder, drier climate and more 
extensive deserts. Conversely, less land and more water 
in the Southern Hemisphere will contribute to a warmer, 
wetter climate and fewer deserts. 
—Arid Lands 
Blind Logwara 
: 
...whenhe 
- 
tried to reach a 
dead hyena for 
a share of the 
. 
putrid meat, his 
fellow Ik 
trampled him 
underfoot. He 
thought it quite 
| 
funny. 
—The Mountain 
People 
The problem of desertification is not Africa’s alone. Each 
year immense clouds of hot dust rise over the Sahara 
and drift westward across the Atlantic. In 1982 a cloud 
more than 1,000 miles long reached Florida, dumping 
massive quantities of dust into the atmosphere along 
the 
way and raising air-pollution levels precipitously eee 
it finally dissipated. 
The United States in fact did not need a plume of Saharan 
sand to remind it of its own problems with advancing 
aridity. In the American West alone, 500 million tons of 
topsoil wash away into streams and rivers each year. 
—Arid Lands 
The Future of the Oceans 
This book is full of wondertul facts. It is the first to present 
and analyze the United Nations Convention on the Law of 
the Sea . 
. 
. perhaps the first global government of Third 
World and industrialized nations. It is well written with an 
extremely sophisticated sense of the marine resources, 
marine ecology, and marine-based economy of our largest 
bioregion: the vast ocean filled with fish, aquatic plants, 
mineral nodules, and petroleum power. 
—Peter Warshall 
@ 
Only four species of aquatic plants have been fully 
domesticated: the red algae Porphyra and Eucheuma 
and the brown algae Laminaria and Undaria. The main 
producer countries are China (Laminaria), Japan (Por- 
phyra and Undaria), and the Philippines (Eucheuma). 
© Desertification of the United States, by David Sheridan 
(U.S. Government Printing Office), is out of print but crucial 
to understanding U.S. problems. 
e For more on oceans, see the World Ocean Floor Panorama 
Map and Times Atlas of the Oceans (p. 14). 
© The Rachael Carson classic on oceans: 
The Sea Around Us: 1950; 221 pp.; $4.95 ($5.95 postpaid) 
from New American Library, 120 Woodbine Street, Bergen- 
field, NJ 07621. 
Full domestication of aquatic plants passes through three 
stages: (1) prudent management of natural stocks (e.g., 
regulating the harvest seasons and harvest techniques); 
(2) manipulation of the environment (e.g., improving 
substratum and fertilization and regulating temperature 
and light); and (3) control of the reproductive process, 
artificial propagation of seeds and spores, and selective 
breeding of the plant. 
Approximately two million wet tons of seaweed are 
harvested annually from cultivated and wild sources. The 
potential for further production is without limit. 
Japan employs eight thousand undersea coal miners 
who produce about ten million tons of coal from the 
oceans per year. The mines are too far away from shore 
to make tunneling from shore practical, so the Japanese 
built artificial islands from which to drive their shafts into 
the seabed. 
In the 1970s, the German oceanographic ship Valdivia 
explored off the coast of Mozambique and discovered 
heavy sands at a depth of between twenty and 500 
meters. These sands contain about 50 million tons of 
recoverable ilmenite, 1.5 million tons of rutile, and 4 
million tons of zircon, all of which add up to ten times 
the present annual production of the industrialized world. 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
WORLD BIOMES 59 
Arid Lands 
Jake Page 
1984; 176 pp. 
$14.95 
($15.95 postpaid) from: 
Silver Burdett Co. 
Attn.: Order Processing 
250 James Street 
/ CN 1918 
Morristown, NJ 07960 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Mountain 
People 
Colin M. Turnbull 
1972; 309 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Simon and Schuster 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Future of 
the Oceans 
(A Report to the 
Club of Rome) 
Elisabeth Mann Borgese 
1986; 139 pp. 
$1 2.95 (Canadian) 
($13.95 postpaid) from: 
Harvest House Ltd. 
Publishers 
Sales & Distribution 
Services 
314 Judson Street 
Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada M8Z 4X7 
or Whole Earth Access 
