COMMUNITY 
The Environmental 
impact Statement 
Process 
Neil Orloff 
1978; 242 pp. 
$7.50 
($9.50 postpaid) from: 
Information Resources 
Press 
1700 N. Moore St. 
Suite 700 
Arlington, VA 22209 
Environmental 
impact Assessment 
Patrick H. Heffernan and 
Ruth Corwin, Editors 
1975; 277 pp. 
$13.50 
($15.14 postpaid) from: 
Freeman, Cooper & Co. 
1736 Stockton Street 
San Francisco, CA 94133 
Ecodefense 
Dave Foreman, Editor 
1985; 197 pp. 
$10 
(S11 postpaid) from: 
Earth First! 
P.O. Box 5871 
Tucson, AZ 85703 
or Whole Earth Access 
ENVIRONMENTAL POLITICS 
Environmental Impact Assessment 
¢ The Environmental Impact 
Statement Process 
The Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) is one of the 
most remarkable examples of participatory democracy 
alive in the United States. It’s perhaps the most viable 
political tool in this catalog and has brought together 
scientists, citizens, corporate executives, congressmen, 
and lawyers in an unprecedented manner, forcing 
humans to consider the consequences of their acts. 
Unfortunately, the EIS has stopped few projects, and it’s 
currently under attack by the Reagan administration. But 
it has slowed a percentage, with the benefit of reducing 
environmental damage and, at times, development costs. 
It gives Americans a say in projects that they subsidize 
with their taxes and must live with long after the 
developer goes home. These two books are still the 
best introduction. 
—Peter Warshall 
Ecodefense 
Inspired by Ed Abbey’s The Monkey Wrench Gang, 
Ecodefense sports proven techniques of tree spiking, road 
spiking, disabling heavy equipment, fence cutting, trap 
clearing, lock jamming, billboard trashing, and sundry 
skills of propaganda, camouflage, sneaking around, 
escape and evasion, and the like. Fascinating stuff; best 
not to skim and try, but really study before trying — for 
two good reasons. One is that monkeywrenching mostly 
takes place in country where retribution is not only in the 
courts but also by direct action: you get the living shit 
beat out of you. The second is that monkeywrenching the 
y 
A bridge timber spike and single jack hammer for use with 
very large trees. Smaller spikes are fine for general use 
and can be driven in with a heavy standard hammer. 
Conservation Directory 
From the publishers of Ranger Rick (p. 386) comes a 
useful catalog of private and public organizations, 
governmental agencies, and officials (like Senators or 
department heads) concerned with natural resources, 
wildlife, and their management. Anyone trying to coor- 
dinate their activities (such as stream restoration for fish) 
with other groups or wanting to know all the conservation 
groups within their state or trying to contact the relevant 
Washington authority can use this catalog. 
—Peter Warshall 
Kentucky Bass Chapter Federation: 
(An organization of Bassmaster Chapters, affiliated with 
the Bass Anglers Sportsman Society, to fight pollution, 
assist state and national conservation agencies in their 
efforts and to teach the young people of our country 
good conservation practices. Dedicated to the realistic 
conservation of our water resources.) 
President: Alex Thomasson, 333 Jesselin Dr., Lexington, 
KY 40503 (606, 278-4018/232-3795) 
Conservation 
Directory 1986 
Rue E. Gordon, Editor 
1986; 302 pp. 
$15 
($17 postpaid) from: 
The National Wildlife 
Federation 
1412 Sixteenth Street NW 
Washington, DC 20036 
or Whole Earth Access 
RUAN 
Se 
168) (NIE 
Whether a project “‘significantly’’ affects the environment 
depends partly on the kind of envirnoment in which the 
project is to be located. 
—The Environmental Impact Statement Process 
54. Does the table of contents list at least the following 
seven elements required by CEQA, as distinct sections? 
(Section 15085(b)) 
(a) The environmental impact of the proposed action 
(b) Any adverse environmental effects which cannot be 
avoided if the proposal is implemented 
(c) Mitigation measures proposed to minimize the impact 
(d) Alternatives to the proposed action 
(e) The relationship between local short-term uses of 
man’s environment and the maintenance and en- 
hancement of long-term productivity 
(f) Any irreversible environmental changes which would 
be caused by the proposed action should it be 
implemented 
(g) The growth-inducing impact of the proposed action 
—Environmental Impact Assessment 
wrong target is grotesquely counterproductive; you have 
not only to be right every single time, but conspicuously 
right, or you're just another random vandal making every- 
one else feel sick about being alive. The book constantly 
warns about knowing your target cold before making a 
move, and if in doubt, don’t. 
—Stewart Brand 
@ 
Tree-spiking is an extremely effective method of deterring 
timber sales, which deserves to be employed far more 
widely than heretofore. Mill operators are quite wary of 
accepting timber which has a likelihood of contamina- 
tion with hidden metal objects — saws are expensive, 
and a “‘spiked’’ log can literally bring operations to a 
screeching halt, at least until a new blade can be put in- 
to service. The Forest Service is nervous enough about 
tree spiking that it has failed to publicize past incidents, 
for fear that the practice might spread. 
Ambio 
Authoritative and glossy. This Sweden-based magazine is 
the voice of establishment international environmentalism. 
When | was working a couple of years ago on an article 
about genotoxins — the flood of new chemicals that 
cause cancer and gene damage — Ambio was my most 
indispensable source of up-to-date information. 
—Stewart Brand 
Ambio 
Don Hinrichsen and 
Kai-Inge Hillerud, Editors 
$32ivear 
(6 issues) from: 
Pergamon Journal, Inc. 
Maxwell House 
Fairview Park 
Elmsford, NY 10523 
e A survey of a decade of 
eco-mediation with an inter- 
esting appendix of case studies. 
| 
Resolving Environmental 
Disputes: Gail Bingham, 1985; 250 pp. $17 postpaid from 
The Conservation Foundation, Dept. QQ, 1255 23rd Street 
NW, Washington, DC 20037. 
