396 
Back to 
the Sources 
Barry W. Holtz, Editor 
1984; 448 pp. 
$10.95 
Postpaid from: 
Simon and Schuster 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Holy Qur’an 
Abdullah Yusuf Ali 
1983; 1,862 pp. 
$20 
($21 postpaid) from: 
International Book Centre 
P.O. Box 295 
Troy, MI 48099 
The Koran 
Interpreted 
Arthur J. Arberry 
1955; 358 pp. 
$13.95 
postpaid from: 
MacMillan Publishing Co. 
Order Dept. 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth Access 
LEARNING 
JUDAISM/ISLAM 
Back to the Sources 
This book is an ambitious introduction and guide to the 
process of Jewish study. There are sections in this 448- 
page anthology covering Bible narratives and Bible law, 
Rabbinic folklore and Rabbinic law, medieval philosophy 
and mysticism, the teachings of the Hasidic Masters and 
the Hebrew prayerbook itself. Through it all is a sense of 
tradition as something organic and growing, an art which 
invites us to participate and make our own contribution 
once we have grasped the fundamentals. 
Back to the Sources comes out of an informal “‘school’’ of 
people who have been privately involved for years in 
Jewish spiritual renewal, but professionally have been 
part of the university community. 
The authors go to great lengths to supply the background 
information and give the reader choices of interpretation. 
There is warmth in this book, and the kind of wry humor 
that comes of an intelligence aware of its own limitations. 
—Ya‘qub ibn Yusuf 
° 
We tend nowadays to think of the Jewish sermon as a 
modern invention, something borrowed perhaps from 
our Protestant neighbors. But in fact, sermons have been 
preached throughout much of Jewish history. In rabbinic 
times, sermons were so popular that people would flock 
from miles around to hear the Sabbath or Festival ad- 
dress of some renowned preacher. 
The preacher would enter dramatically after his assist- 
ants had ‘‘warmed up” the audience, and as he spoke, 
an underling — acting as a kind of primitive “‘living 
loudspeaker’’ — would repeat his words so that all could 
hear. We do not have an actual transcript of an ancient 
sermon in its entirety, but fragments of these ancient ser- 
mons, reworked and polished by later editors, form the 
core of one major type of midrashic literature. Reasonably 
enough, this body of literature is called homiletical Mid- 
rash, since it is based, at least in essence, on the homilies 
preached by the ancient sages. 
Holy Qur’an 
e¢ The Koran Interpreted 
The Qur‘an is The Book revealed from Allah (God) through 
His prophet Muhammad (on whom be blessings and 
peace!) over a period of 23 years. Unlike the Torah, the 
Psalms, or the Gospels, it has been handed down un- 
changed since the time of its revelation. Consequently, its 
text has not been “‘improved,”’ “‘clarified’’ or “‘inter- 
preted.”’ It remains exactly what Muhammad (who 
was illiterate) recited to the early Muslims. 
As the Quran itself states, it is a book of guidance “‘to 
those who guard against evil, who believe in the Unseen’’ 
and like any book of guidance, it must be approached 
with respect and openness. This can be difficult for non- 
Muslims since the Qur‘an abounds with images and 
thoughts that are both sublime, inspiring, and beautiful, 
as well as (often simultaneously) mystifying, violent, and 
terrifying. On first reading, it may strike you as a very 
peculiar and upsetting — yet compelling — book. Second 
readings and beyond get even more interesting. 
Ideally, the Qur’an should be read or listened to in the 
original Arabic, as it was revealed, for there is much 
beauty and even greater emotional and spiritual power 
in its sounds. However, Arabic is a difficult language to 
learn, so most of us will have to settle, initially at least, 
for translations. 
The two English translations included here have each 
been chosen for different reasons. 
The Holy Qur'an, translated by A. Yusuf Ali, a Pakistani 
Muslim, has language which tends to be stilted, flowery, 
and archaic. However, it also includes extensive footnotes 
and commentary which are quite helpful and insightful. 
The Koran Interpreted comes from Arthur J. Arberry, a 
great Orientalist, but not — at least publicly — a Muslim. 
This translation has several shortcomings, including a 
puny index and no footnotes, yet Arberry conveys some 
of the poetry, cadence and grandeur of the Arabic. He 
has captured something ineffable from the original that 
no other translation has even touched. 
—Latifa and Micha ‘Abd al-Hayy Weinman 
ideals and Realities of Islam 
A very clear presentation of the doctrines and beliefs of 
Islam by one of the most distinguished Muslim thinkers in 
the West. Includes a glossary and listings of additional 
readings the reader can investigate. 
—Jay Kinney 
e@ 
For nearly fourteen hundred years Muslims have tried to 
awaken in the morning as the Prophet awakened, to eat 
as he ate, to wash as he washed himself, even to cut 
their nails as he did. There has been no greater force for 
the unification of the Muslim peoples than the presence 
of this common model for the minutest acts of daily life. 
A Chinese Muslim, although racially a Chinese, has a 
countenance, behaviour, manner of walking and acting 
that resembles in certain ways those of a Muslim on the 
coast of the Atlantic. That is because both have for cen- 
ideals and 
Realities of Islam 
Seyyed Hossein Nasr 
1985; 188 pp. 
$6.95 
($8.45 postpaid) from: 
Allen and Unwin 
Order Dept. 
8 Winchester Place 
Winchester, MA 01890 
or Whole Earth Access 
turies copied the same model. Something of the soul of 
the Prophet is to be seen in both places. It is this essen- 
tial unifying factor, 
a common Sunnah or way of living 
as a model, that makes a bazaar in Morocco have a 
‘feeling’ or ambiance of a bazaar in Persia, although 
the people in the two places speak a different language 
and dress differently. There is something in the air which 
an intelligent foreign observer will immediately detect as 
belonging to the same religious and spiritual climate. 
And this sameness is brought about firstly through the 
presence of the Quran and secondly, and in a more im- 
mediate and tangible way, through the ‘presence’ of the 
Prophet in his community by virtue of his Hadith [sayings] 
and Sunnah. 
The effect of religious beliefs on the design and ornament 
of buildings is shown brilliantly in Traditional Islamic Craft in 
Moroccan Architecture (p. 116). 
