Cinefex 
It is evidence of film’s magic that what happens behind 
the scenes has always been as entertaining as the show 
up front, and sometimes more. 
When monsters slobber and spaceships hurtle across the 
screen, | believe it. But when the scene is flipped and I’m 
shown how the most convincing special effects are done, | 
find it unbelievable, yet altogether spellbinding. Hundreds 
of people work years to construct incredibly elaborate 
illusions out of latex, tiny models and winking computers 
— each a secret of fine craftsmanship waiting to be told. 
This amazing magazine (scads of color pictures, no ad- 
vertising) is what some folks around here sneak off to a 
corner with and read for hours. 
—Kevin Kelly 
Cinefex 
Don Shay, Editor 
$1 5/year 
(4 issues) from: 
Cinefex 
P. O. Box 20027 
Riverside, CA 92516 
The Dark Side of Genius: 
The Life of Alfred Hitchcock 
There are plenty of powerful directors whose lives and 
work are documented and worth studying: Huston, Ford, 
Kurosawa, Truffaut. The advantages of examining Hitch- 
cock are that so much is known about him; that most of 
his films are available for rental on video cassette, and 
that his methods are rather obvious. It’s no detraction 
from his genius to observe that Hitchcock was only a few 
steps ahead of the state of the art; consequently, the 
world was ready for his innovations and took to them 
immediately. When you look at one of his films now (try 
watching it two or three times to get past being taken in 
by the story), it’s like a textbook demonstration of how to 
create suspense, develop a story, reveal a character’s 
inner thoughts, etc. 
Dark as some of his themes were, and much of his life, 
the man sure knew how fo tell a good story. 
His life would have made one of his most macabre films. 
—Tom Schneider 
The fantasies Hitchcock spun and that his screenwriters 
gave structure to were always geared to cinematic 
realization. His films depended on the emergence, from 
deep within him, of mysterious images — images that 
were often violent, at times tender. From his own secret 
longings and vivid imagination there came the small 
germs of stories — sometimes fearful and erotic, some- 
times quietly comic or dreamlike. But the plots and the 
characters would always be subordinate to the power of 
the images — just as in dreams, the narrative is never 
quite logical or clear and is always subordinate to the 
images. Similarly, the residue of feelings left by dreams, 
like the impression left by Hitchcock’s images, is more 
important than any half-remembered ‘‘plot.’’ 
COMMUNICATIONS 
FILM 
< 
For maximum control, Dream Quest dismissed the 
possibility of using actual cloud footage in favor of 
creating their own on stage. Experimentation led to the 
employment of polyester fiber fill glued onto pieces of 
plexiglass. 
. 
. An inverted camera and snorkel lens were 
used to obtain cloud imagery that appeared to be 
whizzing by on either side of the thermopod cockpit. 
Gioffre makes minor adjustments to the simulated cloud 
formations. 
An army of technicians prepare to orchestrate Falkor’s 
multitudinous cables. The 43-foot-long mechanical 
creature was capable of various head movements and 
facial expressions, including the ability to form words. 
> 
One of the more ingenious innovations in the film Temple 
of Doom was the employment of a modified Nikon — 
only slightly larger than a standard 35mm still camera — 
to photograph the mine car chase. Without the Nikon, 
the miniature cave sets would have had to have been 
twice as large, just to accommodate ILM’s smallest 
VistaVision camera. Mounted on a specially designed 
car, the camera had full pan and tilt capability. 
Directing for Film and Television 
You can’t learn directing from a book. The author makes 
this clear from the start, then goes on to bring a 
remarkable amount of his considerable experience into 
nearly proving himself wrong. This is not just for begin- 
ners. Open the book anywhere and find a generous serv- 
ing of truth from a working director who has passion, wit, 
and a rare talent for teaching. 
Put this on your shelf next to When the Shooting Stops. .. 
. 
you'll have the core of a very good library on film craft. 
—Tom Schneider 
One of the most exciting kinds of script writing is the 
kind that places us right in the midst of a scene. We see 
the lovers quarreling, but we don’t know why — yet. The 
scene has reached a point of tension; we have to fight to 
keep up; they know so much more than we do, but it’s 
exciting precisely because the scene has momentum. 
Conversely, a script in which dialogue starts as we 
dissolve to the scene, though we know that the characters 
have been with each other for two hours, limps along. A 
script in which every scene crackles with accepted facts 
that we perceive rather than receive, is a good script. A 
script that crackles, in general, that leads us from scene 
to scene, enticing us to want to see more, is a good script. 
Directing for Film 
and Television 
Christopher Lukas 
1985; 193 pp. 
$11 ©95 postpaid from: 
Doubleday & Company 
Direct Mail Order 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth Access 
329 
To produce the alien husks, 
full head casts and sectional 
body casts were taken of 
the three Antarean-por- 
traying actors, eventually 
resulting in one-piece 
fiberglass molds. Skinflex 
was then injected to create 
the basic husk shapes. 
The Dark Side 
of Genius 
(The Life of 
Alfred Hitchcock) 
Donald Spoto 
1983; 665 pp. 
$4.95 
($5.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
Order Dept. 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
