NOMADICS 
2716 
Ascent 
Steve Roper and 
Alan Steck 
1984; 175 pp. 
$25 
($29.50 postpaid) from: 
Sierra Club Bookstore 
730 Polk Street 
San Francisco, CA 94109 
or Whole Earth Access 
Mountaineering 
(Freedom of the Hills) 
Ed Peters, Editor 
1982; 550 pp. 
$1 7 postpaid from: 
The Mountaineers/Books 
306 2nd Avenue West 
Seattle, WA 98119 
or Whole Earth Access 
Climbing 
Michael Kennedy, Editor 
$1 S/year 
(6 issues) from: 
Climbing Magazine 
P.O. Box E 
Aspen, CO 81612 
CLIMBING 
Ascent 
It’s hard to tell fact from fiction in this collection of 
unusual mountain tales, but then aesthetics have always 
been an important part of climbing. The seventeen stories 
and two photo essays are sufficiently intense and clear- 
eyed to satisfy both ascender and ass-ender. 
—JB [Suggested by Dan Zimmerlin] 
Metilkja suffered none of my neurotic ambivalence. He 
understood function much better than |. He knew that 
the doing was the important part and that the outcome 
would either reward or penalize our boldness. One 
acted out of strength without hesitation or consorting 
with hope. One suffered the consequences to the extent 
he was capable of influencing them. Everything else was 
either magic or religion. Metilkja threaded the rope 
through a carabiner and prepared to back off. The ends 
of the rope waved above us like tentacles, blown straight 
up into the night by the surging wind and illuminated by 
our headlamps. And again, for an instant, our eyes met. 
Then he was gone. 
The ultimate refinement of ‘‘traditional’”’ climbing: John > 
Bachar free soloing a classic jamcrack on the second pitch 
of Outer Limits (Yosemite Valley). 
Mountaineering 
By far the most sensitive and complete treatment of 
mountaineering available. Oriented around Pacific North- 
west mountaineering, where trails often end miles before 
the peaks begin, it is particularly relevant to wilderness 
camping and travel. It is much more than a book on how 
to climb; it reflects several generations of a respectful 
relationship with mountains. If you move (or sit) where 
there are trees, rocks, snow and brush, it speaks to your 
terrain. 
—Michael Templeton 
Good self-arrest form may be aesthetically satisfying, 
but, in practice, instantaneous application may be ab- 
solutely critical. A sloppy but fast arrest may be all that 
is needed to stop. Excessive concern for good form that 
results in a slower application may allow the climber to 
accelerate to a speed that even perfect form will not 
check. The emphasis is on driving in the pick as hard and 
as quickly as possible. 
¢ Not nearly as comprehensive as Mountaineering, but much 
more detailed in the basic moves it depicts so well. 
Learning 
to Rock Climb: Michael Loughman, 1981; 192 pp. 
$10.95 (213.45 postpaid) from Sierra Club Bookstore, 730 Polk 
Street, San Francisco, CA 94109 
Climbing 
Bloodboiling (and blood- 
curdling) stories, rousing 
controversy, and lots of 
awesome photographs elicit 
Wows from nonclimbers and 
satisfied smirks from those 
who actually do such deeds. 
As is usual with this sort of 
magazine, the ads show the 
latest equipage more com- 
pletely than many catalogs. 
—JB 
[Suggested by 
Dan Zimmerlin] 
John Long hanging around on 
Giant Rock, California. 
Photo: Bob Gaines. 
¢ There are many excellent suppliers of mountaineering 
equipment. Three held in high regard are International 
Mountain Equipment (catalog free from Box 494, Main 
Street, North Conway, NH 03860); Midwest Mountain 
Sports (catalog free from P. O. Box 87, Worthington, OH 
43085); and Mountain Tools (catalog free from P. O. Box 
22788, Carmel, CA 93922. 
© See ‘’REI,”’ p. 274. 
