Ee 
Here’s most of the staff, resting in the courtyard at our production studio. Starting in the front, from the left: paste-up regular 
Steve Lipke; designer and gardener Kathleen O’Neill; backside of office pet Tesla. Second row, sitting: cartoonist and type- 
setter James Donnelly; publisher/editor Kevin Kelly, with beard; office manager Christina Sponseller; paste-up artist Jerri 
Linn; editor Jay Kinney, on loan from Gnosis magazine; all-around assistant Lori Woolpert, on a journalism internship from 
Lawrence, Kansas; production traffic manager and gracious encourager Susan Erkel Ryan; office companion, Sally, with tail; 
paster-upper “Captain” Walker, with dark glasses; Jonathan Evelegh, back for proofing another Catalog. Back row, standing: 
long-time Catalogger Richard Nilsen; chief honcho editor J. Baldwin, who spent many nights sleeping on the futon in the office; 
the person-who-checked-all-those-prices, Dorothy Houser; proofreader Hank Roberts; old catalog hand, librarian, and lord of 
the index David Burnor; copy editor Ken Conner, who also handles Whole Earth’s syndicated column; prime organizer and pro- 
ject mayor Jeanne Carstensen, who kept the events on course; typesetter Alan Born; bookkeeper Cliff Figallo; with folded 
arms, research chief Cindy Craig; tall in the saddle, ““Tex’”” Coate, WELL computer supervisor; veteran photographer and office 
wit Don Ryan; typesetter and sometime juggler Joan Gill; indexer and Whole Earth Review guest editor Ted Schultz. 
Missing from this picture are several notable contributors: pilot, homesteader, general purpose clerk and complaint-handling yogi 
Dick Fugett; researcher David Finacom; catalog originator Stewart Brand; bioregional naturalist Peter Warshall; and the 
previous Next Whole Earth Catalog editor Art Kleiner. 
Full credits on p. 2. 
—Kevin Kelly 
COVERS 
Front cover: The Earth is tickled by hurricane Gladys. Photographed from Apollo 7 on October |7, 1968, the hurricane was stalled west of 
Naples, Florida. Its spiraling cumuliform-cloud bands sprawled over hundreds of square miles. A vigorous updraft hid the eye of the storm by flat- 
tening the cloud tops against the cold, stable air of the tropopause (then at 54,000 feet) and forming a pancake of cirrostratus 10 to 12 miles 
wide. Maximum winds near the center were 75 miles per hour. 
Back cover: Gaia, by Apollo 12. The Gaia Hypothesis, as proposed by the British scientist James Lovelock (see p. 10), suggests that the Earth's 
atmosphere and oceans are maintained as highly sophisticated buffering devices by the totality of life on the planet. The whole Earth, in other words, 
may function as a single self-regulating organism. ‘‘Gaia’’ was the goddess of the Earth for the ancient Greeks. They said it first. “We live one life.” 
