HEALTH 
HOSPICE 
218 
Dying at Home 
With Hospice 
Deborah Chase 
1986; 204 pp. 
$15.95 
postpaid from: 
CN. Mosby 
11830 Westline 
Industrial Drive 
St. Louis, MO 63146 
or Whole Earth Access 
Gramp 
Mark Jury and Dan Jury 
OUT OF PRINT 
Viking Penguin Books 
Hospice: Complete 
Care for the 
Terminally Ill 
(2nd Edition) 
Jack M. Zimmerman, M.D. 
1986; 311 pp. 
$29.50 
postpaid from: 
Urban and Schwarzenberg 
7 East Redwood Street 
Baltimore, MD 21202 
ospice is an attitude, not a place or process. It refers 
to the approach of comfort rather than cure, in- 
volvement of the patient and his or her family in 
all aspects of care, and especially, the meeting of 
every need the patient expresses, whenever possible. 
Hospice is the way we used to take care of our el- 
derly and ill fellows, without thinking. A positive 
step backward. 
—Sallie Tisdale 
Dying at Home with Hospice 
This prosaic overview of hospice care is aimed at families 
and potential recipients. The book includes an interesting 
history of care for the dying, basic physical care, and 
problems unique to dying children. It isn’t just about 
home care; in-hospital and independent hospices are 
also discussed. There’s a list of hospices, too. 
—Sallie Tisdale 
The heart of the hospice idea is to do away with the 
terrible alienation that the dying feel because of the 
regimentation and narrow-mindedness of the medical 
profession. One dying patient said to a hospice doctor, 
“Nobody wants to look at me.’’ Hospice does not look 
away from death; it faces the unpleasant truth with 
compassion and love. 
One woman who applied to a hospice for care was a 
70-year-old cancer patient from a large family. She told 
the interviewer that she was certain her family would 
want to take care of her; but the interviewer thought it 
odd that the patient had come in alone. When he called 
in the patient’s husband, son, and daughter-in-law, the 
interviewer got a different perspective on the patient’s 
personality. All her life she had been a perfectionist and 
a complainer. . 
. 
. Not surprisingly, the family wanted 
nothing to do with her care. 
Hospice: Complete Care 
for the Terminally Ill 
The physical experience of dying has long been ignored 
by writers of medical texts. At last, an accurate, easy-to- 
read textbook on dying and hospice care, useful for 
physicians, nurses, and support workers. Covers physical, 
psychological, spiritual, and ethical issues with an 
aggressively liberal perspective. 
—Sallie Tisdale 
For those dying patients who have pain, it must be 
controlled before other symptoms can be handled effec- 
tively. Almost all patients with advanced malignancy fear 
both uncontrollable pain and the possibility of being so 
mentally obtunded from pain relief that they are rendered 
subhuman. They must be assured from the beginning, 
and shown thereafter, that it is possible to be kept pain 
free and alert throughout much of their terminal illness. 
Using all that morphine, aren‘t patients knocked out and 
don’t they become addicted? 
Addiction is not a problem with the terminally ill. To 
begin with, the course of most patients is of such a 
nature that addiction is irrelevant. 
Do you permit connubial visits? 
Yes. In our program, however, this has rarely been a 
consideration because most patients who are well 
enough to be sexually active are not on the inpatient 
unit. For those few exceptions our hospice staff has 
discreetly demonstrated its imagination, ingenuity, and 
compassion in arranging connubial visits. 
Gramp 
A remarkable, difficult book. With starkly beautiful 
photographs and almost painfully frank narrative, Gramp 
tells the story of a respected, popular man as he declines 
into senility and finally dies. His loving family cares for 
him to the last day, shunning all manner of ‘help’ aimed 
at masking or prolonging Gramp’s condition. 
It is a rare and honest story which shows us pictures of an 
old man naked in a bare room and, later, the same man 
newly dead; such images are imbued with a palpable 
affection. A unique and enlightening book. 
—Sallie Tisdale 
“My first impression of Gramp was that he smiled a lot 
and was outgoing and friendly. When | came around 
more he would tease me and he was affectionate. He 
talked out of context, but he didn’t do anything strange 
and at that time | didn’t notice his senility. | heard stories 
about how he was, but | felt that maybe he was just 
playing and doing things to tease Nan, because he 
would turn around and wink and chuckle. ’’ 
Gramp was as bewildered as anyone at the turn of 
events. At each recurring accident, he’d react with a 
startled grunt. During the umpteenth trip to the bath- 
room (we'd quit counting when he hit nine before noon) 
Dee said, ‘‘Oh no, Gramp, you didn’t go in your pants 
again, did you?’ 
““No,”’ replied Gramp, ‘‘that other guy did.’’ 
® 
Finally, Gramp slipped into what we guessed was a 
coma. Dr. Kline came to the house and examined him, 
finding that his heart and lungs were still functioning all 
right — which prompted the doctor to comment that the 
term used to describe a person who was being kept alive 
by tubes was “‘a heart and lung case.’’ Family opinion 
was resolute: if Gramp had stoically endured his tongue 
cracking and the roof of his mouth flaking off from lack 
of liquid, no way were we going to sneak nourishment 
into him now. 
TES 
TEES 
I OL BD TLD ELSE IL TELS ES ENTS A ETT EL IT SIFT 
° Executors and executrixes need to know everything in this 
thorough book. The Executor’s Manual: Charles K. Plotnick 
and Stephen R. Leimberg, 1986; 462 pp. $17.50 postpaid 
from Doubleday and Company/Direct Mail Order, 501 
Franklin Avenue, Garden City, NJ 11530. 
