NATIONAL POLITICS 
COMMUNITY 
League of Women Voters 
This volunteer organization has come to stand for citizen 
participation in responsible and responsive government. 
Its nonpartisan stance allows the League to concentrate 
on researching the facts about candidates and issues and 
getting them out to voters. For local to national issues, 
their publications catalog is a useful first stop in the 
search for answers. 
—Richard Nilsen 
e 
_ 
Simplified Parliamentary Procedure. Robert’s Rules of 
Order condensed and simplified in an easy-to- 
understand pamphlet. Newly revised. 1979, 12 pp. 75¢. 
e 
Letting the Sunshine In: Freedom of Information and 
Open Meetings. Provisions of the federal laws: how 
citizens can take advantage of them. 1977, 4 pp. 65¢. 
Know Your Community. Guide to help citizens and 
organizations interested in change take a good look 
at the existing structure and functions of their local 
government. 1972, 48 pp., $1.75. 
The Nuclear Waste Primer. New edition. Contains basic 
information on sources and types of radioactive waste. 
Outlines past and present government waste manage- 
ment programs and describes future policy options and 
opportunities for citizen participation in the decision 
process. 1985, 90 pp., $5.95. 
ae 
PT 
I 
SO 
ST 
TEST 
How to Lobby Congress 
Abundant, detailed savvy on effective use of Washington, 
DC. Affecting national policy is not impossible, merely 
difficult. 
—Stewart Brand 
The Press Aide also edits the Congressman’s newsletter 
to his constituents. This so-called newsletter is thinly 
disguised political propaganda designed to inform the 
electorate on the Member’s activities in Washington. It is 
usually a four-to eight-page pamphlet; until recently, it 
has always been written in the first person singular and 
the Congressman has been characteristically egotistical 
about his accomplishments on behalf of his constituency. 
Usually, these newsletters will consider half a dozen 
issues and will often have pictures of the Congressman 
meeting with various groups. An extremely effective way 
to promote your issue is to have a feature article on it 
included in a Congressman’s newsletter. It’s free, it 
reaches over fifty thousand people by first-class mail 
and it’s the closest thing to a free lunch you'll find 
in Washington. 
a 
TS 
ET Ta aS 
SEE) 
Center for Innovative 
Diplomacy (CID) 
Omnipresent: the nuclear threat, and the feeling that 
there’s nothing to be done about it. Given the unrespon- 
siveness of national politicians to disarmament proposals, 
that feeling is mostly right. The occasional nuclear free 
zones just don’t make me feel that safe. 
Stubborn CID believes that local governments should act 
in international affairs; citizen participation in ‘municipal 
state departments’’ would empower localities to challenge 
national politicians. CID’s newsletter and frequent special 
reports hash out the vision and strategy. They also have a 
manual, Having International Affairs Your Way, on how 
to be a citizen diplomat. Here’s one route to making 
changes for the long haul. 
—Jeanne Carstensen 
According to the Logan Act, no U.S. citizen may “‘directly 
or indirectly’ correspond with or meet with ‘‘any foreign 
government . 
. 
. with intent to influence the measures or 
conduct of any foreign government . 
. 
. in relation to 
any disputes or controversies with the United States.’’ 
Any citizen who violates these rules awaits up to three 
years in jail and a five thousand dollar fine. 
The Logan Act remains a living testament to our govern- 
ment’s resistance to citizen diplomacy and, indeed, all 
democratic participation in foreign policy. So long as the 
act exists, it is a potential snakepit that someday can — 
and will — be used against citizen diplomats. If citizen 
diplomacy is to become a regular tool for American for- 
eign policy, we should prepare to jettison the Logan Act 
once and for all. 
SSR 
TE SR NOE ELT 
ES 
° For tracking current alternative political theories and 
tactics, and for glimpsing the shape of future politics — both 
national and international — try this newsletter. 
New Options: Mike Satin, Editor, $25/year, (12 issues) from: 
New Options Incorporated, P. O. Box 19324, Washington, 
DC 20036. 
information U.S.A. 
This mammoth directory is dedicated to “all federal 
bureaucrats’ and makes the point that 710,000 members 
of this much maligned profession are actually information 
specialists. The premise at the heart of the book is simple: 
“somewhere in the federal government there is a free 
source of 
information on almost any topic you can think of.’ 
A book that opens doors and gives the name, address, 
phone number and price list behind each one. 
—Richard Nilsen 
e 
Consumer Product Safety Commission 
Publications 
Up to 10 copies of the following publications are 
available free by writing to the U.S. Consumer Product 
Safety Commission, Washington, DC 20207: 
Children’s Sleepwear (Fact Sheet No. 96) 
Holiday Safety No. 7T (teacher’s guide on decorations, 
toys and other gifts) 
CPSC Publications List 
Wake Up! Smoke Detectors (available also in Spanish) 
Wood and Coal Burning Stoves (Fact Sheet No. 92) 
Hair Dryers and Stylers (Fact Sheet No. 35) 
Urea Formaldehyde Foam Insulation — Information Packet 
Hot Tips for Hot Shots on Skateboarding Safety 
(illustrated brochure) 
® 
Environmental Protection Agency 
Data Experts 
The following experts can be contacted directly concerning 
the topics under their responsibility. 
Bottled Water, Home Purifiers/Frank Bell/202-382-3037 
Acid Precipitation/Mike Maxwell/919-541-3091 
Asbestos in Buildings/William Cain/202-684-7881 
Groundwater Protection/Jack Kelley/405-332-8800 
Integrated Pest Management/Darwin Wright/ 
202-426-2407 
Watershed Management/Lee Mulkey/404-546-3581 
Fishkills/Ed Biernacki/202-382-7008 
103 
Women Voters 
Catalog free from: 
League of Women Voters 
of the United States 
Publication Sales 
1730 M Street NW 
Tenth Floor 
Washington, DC 20036 
re 
How to Lobby 
Congress 
Donald deKieffer 
1981; 241 pp. 
$8.95 
($10.45 postpaid) from: 
Dodd, Mead and Co. 
P. O. Box 141000 
Nashville, TN 37214 
or Whole Earth Access 
Center for 
Innovative 
Diplomacy 
Membership 
$25 /year: 
(includes quarterly 
CID Report) 
Information free 
with SASE 
Having 
International 
Affairs Your Way 
$4 postpaid 
All from: 
CID 
17931 F Skypark Circle 
Irvine, CA 92714 
Information U.S.A. 
Matthew Lesko 
1986; 1253 pp. 
$22.95 
($24.45 postpaid) from: 
Viking Penguin Books 
299 Murray Hill Pkwy. 
East Rutherford, NJ 07073 
or Whole Earth Access 
