NOMADICS 
CARS 
268 
CARS OF THE ’80s 
by J. Baldwin 
IKE IT OR NOT, most of us need a car. We rent, hire, borrow, ride in, or 
buy them — new and used. A used car can be a good deal. A thorough 
overhaul typically costs less than the interest on the payments of a new 
one. That goes for old, unfashionably fat jobs too. They can be had 
cheap, and will often cost less to own than new economy models. 
If a new car is what you need, I recommend a front-wheel-drive machine whose 
characteristics have been deemed desirable by Consumer Reports (p. 150). If 
you need lots of room, one of the minivans is worth a look. Most are merely 
shrunken trucks, but the front-wheel-drive Dodge/Plymouth vanlet represents a 
new sort of vehicle. It behaves more like a car than a truck, gets decent gas 
mileage, and makes efficient use of its modest exterior dimensions. You can buy 
one as an empty one-passenger “tin bin” or in various gussied-up versions seat- 
ing as many as eight. The success of this design has engendered competition that 
Drive It 
‘Till lt Drops 
Joe Troise 
1980; 117 pp. 
$6.95 
postpaid from: 
and books 
702 South Michigan Street 
South Bend, IN 46618 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Car Buyer’s Art 
Darrell Parrish 
1985; 183 pp. 
$7.95 
postpaid from: 
Book Express 
P.O. Box 1249 
Bellflower, CA 90706 
or Whole Earth Access 
Classic 
Motorbooks 
Catalog 
$2.95 
postpaid from: 
Classic Motorbooks 
P.O. Box 1 
Osceola, WI 54020 
will appear soon, but you should give any new model 
at least a year for debugging before you buy. 
Four-wheel drive is another interesting development, 
not in its usual heavy-duty boulder-crawling form, 
but as an accessory on an otherwise normal passenger 
car or station wagon. The 4x4 option gives a reassur- 
ing sure-footedness on slick roads, and a remarkable 
ability to hustle through snow and mud. My own 
car is one of these: a Toyota Tercel 4x4 wagon. In 
60,000 miles of various driving conditions, it has 
proven to be competent, frugal, and reliable, though 
a trifle dull. It has plenty of excellent competition 
from Honda, Subaru, Dodge Colt Vista, Nissan 
Stanza, Audi, and VW, with more to come. 
If you buy a small car, order a model with folding 
rear seats and a hatchback — that layout uses the 
limited space most efficiently. Get a light color; a 
white car will be about 35 degrees cooler than a black 
one on a hot day, and thus may make expensive air 
conditioning unnecessary. If low-cost transport is 
your goal, go for a simple base model. They’re sur- 
prisingly good these days. In fact, most cars are 
significantly better in all respects than they have 
ever been. 
g 
Drive It ‘Till It Drops 
If bottom-line costs are your main concern, then an older 
model makes a lot of sense; keeping the oldie going can 
often save you thousands of dollars. This chatty book is 
full of good information that remains true in principle 
despite being a bit out-of-date with prices. 
—JB 
When a schedule says to install a ‘‘new’’ something or 
other, that means new and not rebuilt. Some automotive 
components, like alternators and starters, can be rebuilt 
with a high degree of success, but others, such as car- 
buretors and water pumps, are much more likely to last 
if they are installed as brand-new units. This is the voice 
of experience talking. 
The year of your car is a very important consideration in 
deciding whether or not to restore it. As far as I’m con- 
cerned, the very best automobiles were manufactured 
between 1955 and around 1970, give or take a few 
years. Now when | say best, | mean reliable on a day to 
day basis. Cars made before 1955 are usually a little 
overweight, running on a feeble 6 volt electrical system, 
and powered by an inefficient flathead engine. While 
these characteristics are charming in some respects, they 
don’t fit well in the world of the 1980’s. Cars made after 
1970 or so tend to be severely burdened with assembly 
defects, loss of quality control and very complex emissions 
controls. Many domestic cars built in the mid 1970's also 
enjoy eating rather large amounts of gasoline. 
The Car Buyer’s Art 
Would you be willing to work hard as an actor for $500 
an hour? That’s about what you'll ‘“make,’’ tax free, if 
you follow the advice given here the next time you buy a 
car or other high-ticket item. This is definitely not just 
another boring How-To-Buy-A-Car effort. If is no less than 
a military manual on assault of a dealership. The instruc- 
tions are very explicit, right down to a minute-by-minute 
script in some cases. When we bought a car recently, we 
used most of the strategies given here and took it for 
about $2,000 less than anyone else we know, so we can 
vouch that the suggestions work. It’s rare to see insider's 
Classic Motorbooks 
You need a reprint of the factory shop manual for ‘57 
Chevy pickups? Or would you like to find some decent 
books on converting your vehicles to alcohol? Or how 
about a place which carries Bentley, Haynes, Clymer, 
Chilton, and Autobook workshop manuals for popular 
models? All of this, and a lot more you never thought 
about, is available from Classic Motorbooks. They claim 
to have the world’s largest selection of automotive 
literature; if you don’t believe it, take a look at their 
catalog. I’ve been doing business with Classic Motor- 
books for quite a number of years now, and service has 
been excellent. 
—Jim Baker 
information available in so useful a form and | recommend 
this book highly. It even has an exam at the back (with 
answers) so you can practice. 
—JB 
Turnover in the car selling profession is high. Because 
of this, a young salesman is very likely to be a new 
salesman, which is exactly what you want. Here’s why. 
Being new in the business, he will lack the hardened 
“take ‘em to the cleaners at all cost’’ attitude of the 
more experienced veteran. Along the same lines, his 
persuasive skills will probably not be fully developed. 
And finally, remember, he is keenly aware that in order 
to remain employed he must sell cars. In order to accom- 
plish this and gain an initial foothold in the profession, 
there’s a good chance he'll work his heart out for you 
and settle for a sale ‘‘on the books’’ even if the com- 
mission is small. 
¢ To buy or sell antique, vintage, or special-interest cars and 
parts, check: 
Hemmings Motor News: Dave Brownell, Editor. $16.75/year 
(12 issues) from HMN Subscriptions, Box 100, Bennington, 
VT 05201. 
The best used car information. 
Consumer Reports Guide to Used Cars: Consumer Reports 
Editors with Alex Markovich, 1986; 564 pp. $6.95 ($9.10 
postpaid) from Consumer Reports Books, 540 Barnum 
Avenue, Bridgeport, CT 06608 (or Whole Earth Access). 
