_—ee——— 
ee 
|] 
ccording to legend, the Ironman triathlon was conceived when a group of inebriated navy jocks 
stationed in Hawaii debated an Ultimate Physical Test, based on what was then available. There 
was the Waikiki 2.4 mile Rough Water Swim, the Around-Oahu 112 mile bike ride, and of 
course, the Honolulu Marathon.. 
“Harhar!” announced one inspired participant just before sliding under the table. “Let’s do ’em all!” (Or 
at least that’s my favorite interpretation of the event.) But unlike most beer-assisted schemes, this one actu- 
ally materialized, and in 1978 15 entrants did their darndest, with 12 finishing. With only a little imagination, 
you can picture the blood, sweat, and toil. So could the TV executives, and before long the Ironman drama 
was on the tube, the world was watching, and a new sport was born. 
SS 
eae 
It took off fast, for besides the challenge and reward of dealing with three sports, triathlons offer the 
benefits of cross-training, as well as fewer injuries than single sport intensity can produce. 
The Ironman remains the showcase, but grassroots popularity is based on shorter, more humane events. A 
1500-meter swim, 25-mile bike and 10-kilometer run would be typical, with a winning time around two 
hours. Often called a Tinman in deference to the founding event, these shorter races can also feature local 
variations like cross-country skiing and canoeing. What’s common to all is the challenge, reward, and fun. 
—Dick Fugett 
Cross-Training ¢ Triathlon Training 
If you’re planning your premier triathlon, then look at 
Cross-Training by Katherine Vaz. It will give you basic 
techniques, training schedules, and equipment needs 
without smothering you with details. Go do a triathlon 
and have fun before you decide to make life complex. 
But after you’ve tasted the high that comes from a three- 
sport immersion in physical and mental challenge, you 
may get serious in your efforts, as well as more advanced 
in your reading. For the most information, try Dave Scott’s 
Triathlon Training. His coverage of each sport is as good 
as you'll find anywhere, as well as being quite readable. 
Besides the basics, he discusses everything from heat and 
altitude training to weights, stretching, and race psychol- 
ogy, besides having a quality chapter on nutrition. 
Scott’s record of four Ironman victories speaks for itself, 
and he’s produced a book to match it. 
—Dick Fugett 
e@ 
As a triathlete, you can save yourself a lot of wasted 
time and energy by learning how to swim properly from 
the start. Some of the information in this chapter might 
seem prohibitively technical to beginning swimmers, but 
don’t let it scare you. When you get in the water and 
follow the instructions, you'll see for yourself that little 
details such as the way your wrist is flexed make a big 
difference in how efficiently you can swim. 
—Dave Scott’s Triathlon Training 
SS 
ea 
LE 
ES DS 
BEE 
ES STS LS BE DALLES EEL LIE LE SES LDE L ELE ELSI EL EEEEE NE BIEI LTTE 
Triathlete 
There’s no longer a struggle to decide which magazine to 
recommend — they just merged. The new hybrid is 
Triathlete, combining coverage of training tips with race 
results, personalities, and schedules. Even a single sport 
enthusiast would do well to browse through it, for there 
are good stories on technique for each sport. Beginning 
swimmers, for whom little exists, will find it especially 
beneficial. 
—Dick Fugett 
© For bicycle coverage, see pp. 264-267. For bicycle racing 
info try this magazine. 
Winning: John Wilcockson, Editor. $19.97/year (12 issues) 
from Winning, 1127 Hamilton Street, Allentown, PA 18102. 
It holds that an organism, muscle, or enzyme system 
stressed beyond its threshold will recover slightly beyond 
that level if allowed time to rebuild and repair itself. 
Overload work is what the phrase implies. You are stres- 
sing your body just beyond what it can handle (called 
demand), essentially breaking the systems down. 
The systems will, however, rise to the occasion and 
reconstruct themselves to the level you insisted on if 
allowed adequate rest time. If this rest time is either too 
short or nonexistent, an added overload session on the 
same systems will only break them down further. 
—Cross Training 
in timing your swim to determine your optimal aerobic 
training pace, you will need a pace clock and a friend with 
a lap counter to keep track of the distance you have 
covered. immediately after 
ceasing exercise, count 
your pulse for 10 seconds 
and compare with your 
target rate. By comparing 
your pulse rate with elaps- 
ed exercise time and target 
rate, you can judge the in- 
tensity of your workout. 
Two minutes later another 
check of your pulse 
should show considerable 
recovery — a 10-second 
count of less than 20 is 
desirable. 
Richard Wells 
Michael 
Garcia 
Silviane Puntous 
—Cross Training 
Dave Scott's 
Triathion Training 
Dave Scott and Liz Barrett 
1986; 224 pp. 
$9.95 
postpaid from: 
Simon & Schuster 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
Cross-Training 
Katherine Vaz 
1984; 239 pp. 
$9.95 
($10.95 postpaid) from: 
Avon Books 
P. O. Box 767 
Dresden, TN 38225 
or Whole Earth Access 
Triathlete 
Harald Johnson, 
Editorial Director 
$1 9.95 /year 
(12 issues) from: 
Triathlete 
1127 Hamilton Street 
Allentown, PA 18102 
