ek 
rw 
NN 
mel 
A fringe benefit of freighthopping: aesthetic enjoyment. 
CALL LL LL LLL LL LLL. 
Hitch A Yacht 
by Peter Moree, at Sea (Mediterranean) 
I live aboard my steel 36-foot ketch and sailed 
around the world of late, hence my story: There’s 
an easy way to hitch rides on yachts from ocean 
to ocean. 
Every year about 700 yachts sail from Europe to the 
Caribbean and approximately 300 sail from the U.S. 
west coast to Tahiti, etc. Generally these yachts go 
away for a year but a small percentage continue 
around the world. About 60 to 80 yachts cross 
the Indian Ocean each year. 
Yachts are almost always crewed by couples or men 
only and are short of crew for the longer passages. 
No experience is necessary, just taking turns in 
keeping lookout for big ships (call your skipper 
when in doubt). 
I’ve sailed from Europe via Panama to such places 
as Easter Island, Tonga, Australia, Indonesia, Sri 
Lanka, Jakarta, Sudan, etc. To get to some places 
the only way is by private boat. 
Yachts travel with the trade winds preferably and 
also in warm climates. This means they go west. 
Most land travelers go via Boeing 747 and go east. 
Here might be a conflict. 
How to find yachts: Cruising yachts generally have 
the following characteristics (nice when you’re look- 
ing around in Los Angeles): Foreign flags, wind- 
vane steering gear, generally sturdy appearance, 
laundry of the people who /ive on board hung 
out to dry. 
Cost: Share food costs. This seems normal. I charged 
$50 a week for food and lodging and took care of 
all harbor dues, oil, propane, etc. Some people still 
think this is expensive. (Nobody realizes that with 
NOMADICS 
HITCHING 259 
The Freighthopper’s Manual 
for North America 
Making a big comeback with college age. “’Yeah Ma, !'ll 
be home for Thanksgiving. Uh, no | don’t know when I'll 
be getting in.’’ Cheap travel, real adventures, often good 
company. Some lines and yards are still too hot, but many 
a railroad is operated largely by aging hippies these days, 
who will help you. A fine little book, all you need. 
—Stewart Brand 
@ 
When you’re running on the ground you’re in one frame 
of reference, and when you’re in the boxcar you’re in 
another. But when you’re leaving one and not yet in the 
other — that’s reality! 
The 
$6.95 
Freighthopper’s 
($7.95 postpaid) from: 
Manual for 
Daniel Leen 
North America 
P.O. Box 191 
Seattle, WA 98111 
or Whole Earth Access 
Daniel Leen 
1981; 95 pp. 
depreciation, insurance, maintenance, and operating 
expenses, my boat ends up costing $50 a day.) 
The best way to approach a skipper is to state that 
you’re not the seasick type (check this out) and have 
money to share food and money to travel home in 
case of emergency. Show your proof in traveler’s 
checks. Generally be helpful with work, cooking, 
etc. on board. With a bit of luck, a good skipper 
will teach you the ropes as well as navigation. Go 
for a week’s trial if the route and time permit. 
Leave the boat at the appointed end of your joyride. 
The ship is also the skipper’s home and, as you will 
experience, affords little privacy. Boating is the last 
freedom left, but hassles with official permits, 
paperwork, visas, etc. are getting worse, especially in 
the so-called “free world.” Still, it is beautiful to 
share the experience. And we do need more ladies 
out here (adventurous types naturally). @ 
Yacht hitching on the Leopard Normand Ill. 
Hitchhiking, 
the homilies 
Use a sign. Have a map. 
Look like who you want 
to pick you up. 
Wait where it’s easy 
for drivers to see you 
and stop. 
Be of use to the driver, 
or at least no bother. 
Don’t take it personally 
when they don’t pick 
you up. See it as their 
problem. 
Stay on the curb, and 
off freeways. Don’t rob 
or murder or rape any- 
body; it makes it hard 
for the rest of us. 
—Stewart Brand 
