Livia 
eons FCLGE 
Lord of the Rings, etc. 
| think no other fictional world matches the depth of 
Tolkien’s. This children’s tale (The Hobbit) seized the Ox- 
ford mythologist and ancient languages scholar Tolkien 
and hurled him and us into a saga so vast that he never 
did encompass it all. The three-volumed Lord of the Rings 
is the central masterpiece — the journey of the hobbits, 
men, and elves, and wizard Gandalf to destroy the Ring 
of Power of the dark Lord Sauron. It is a tale of surprising 
invention, subtlety, and insight. 
—Stewart Brand 
e 
‘Hold it up!’ said Gandalf. ‘And look closely!’ 
As Frodo did so, he now saw fine lines, finer than the 
finest penstrokes, running along the ring, outside and 
inside: lines of fire that seemed to form the letters of 
a flowing script. They shone piercingly bright, and yet 
remote, as if out of a great depth. 
‘| cannot read the fiery letters,’ said Frodo in a quaver- 
ing voice. 
‘No,’ said Gandalf, ‘but | can. The letters are Elvish, 
of an ancient mode, but the language is that of Mordor, 
‘COMMUNICATIONS 
GOOD READING 
which | will not utter here. But this in the Common Tongue 
is what is said, close enough: 
One Ring to rule them all, One Ring to find them, 
One Ring to bring them all and in the darkness bind them. 
It is only two lines of a verse long known in Elven-lore: 
Three Rings for the Elven-kings under the sky, 
Seven for the Dwarf-lords in their halls of stone, 
Nine for Mortal Men doomed to die, 
One for the Dark Lord on his dark throne 
In the Land of Mordor where the Shadows lie. 
One Ring to rule them all, One Ring to find them, 
One Ring to bring them all and in the darkness bind them 
In the Land of Mordor where the Shadows lie.’ 
He paused, and then said slowly in a deep voice: ‘This 
is the Master-ring, the One Ring to rule them all. This is 
the One Ring that he lost many years ago, to the great 
weakening of his power. He greatly desires it — but he 
must not get it.’ 
Frodo sat silent and motionless. Fear seemed to stretch 
out a vast hand, like a dark cloud rising in the East and 
looming up to engulf him. ‘This ring!’ he stammered. 
‘How, how on earth did it come to me?’ 
—The Fellowship of the Ring 
The Once and Future King 
One of the most popular story books around (Camelot, 
good play, so-so movie), this four-volumes-in-one tragedy 
of King Arthur is more about learning than any other fic- 
tion | can think of. Young Arthur learns the ways of the 
wide world by being magicked into the personae of var- 
ious animals by Merlyn — a fish, a hawk, an ant, and 
grandest of all, a migrating goose. ‘Where did T.H. 
White get that?’’ Gregory Bateson kept asking, certain 
that it was borrowed from some tribe or other. Best of all, 
the learning doesn’t stop with being crowned or being 
married, as most stories conveniently do. The hard lessons 
of full maturity, even of civilization itself growing up, are 
the simultaneous working and the burden of the tragedy. 
Twice in reading The Once and Future King, end of the 
first book and end of the fourth, | have dripped salt tears 
and been unable to go on reading aloud. No other book 
has managed that. 
—Stewart Brand 
“Come, sword,”’ he said. “| must cry your mercy and 
take you for a better cause. 
“This is extraordinary,’’ said the Wart. “‘I feel strange 
when | have hold of this sword, and | notice everything 
much more clearly. Look at the beautiful gargoyles of the 
church, and of the monastery which it belongs to. See 
how splendidly all the famous banners in the aisle are 
waving. How nobly that yew holds up the red flakes of 
its timbers to worship God. How clean the snow is. | can 
smell something like fetherfew and sweet briar — and is 
it music that | hear?’’ 
It was music, whether of pan-pipes or of recorders, and 
the light in the churchyard was so clear, without being 
dazzling, that one could have picked a pin out twenty 
yards away. 
“There is something in this place,’’ said the Wart. 
“There are people. Oh, people, what do you want?”’ 
Nobody answered him, but the music was loud and the 
light beautiful. 
‘‘People,’’ cried the Wart, ‘’| must take this sword. It is 
not for me, but for Kay. | will bring it back.’’ 
There was still no answer, and Wart turned back to the 
anvil. He saw the golden letters, which he did not read, 
and the jewels on the pommel, flashing in the lovely light. 
“Come, sword,’’ said the Wart. 
Manas 
An anonymously produced philosophical humanist journal. 
A weekly thoughtful delight, these are the good thoughts 
that lead to and emerge from good actions. It’s also one 
of the few places you hear about old books used in re- 
newed ways — Gandhi, Ortega y Gasset, Tolstoy — and 
new and promising activities and publications. 
e 
—Stewart Brand 
In short, some arguments with some people cannot be 
won, even by the most skilled and devoted of advocates. 
Socrates lost in his attempt to persuade the Athenians 
to interest themselves in his ideas about education, al- 
though he went on arguing to his dying breath. So with 
his imitators and followers, of whom E.F. Schumacher 
was one. He said: 
There is no doubt. 
. 
. the need to transmit know-how, but 
this must take second place, for it is obviously somewhat 
foolhardy to put great powers into the hands of people 
without making sure that they have a reasonable idea 
of what to do with them. At present, there can be little 
doubt that the whole of mankind is in mortal danger, not 
because we are short of scientific and technological 
know-how, but because we tend to use it destructively, 
without wisdom. More education can help us only if it 
produces more wisdom. 
The Sun 
The Sun tries to print the truth. Not the news or the latest, 
but the truth, Mr. Truth, the Queen of All Our Dreams. 
And it does. Not, for me, with every word or every story, 
but in every issue my mind is truly boggled by something 
in a way it was hungry for. The means used are interviews 
with people poetic and spiritual, stories about the mun- 
dane and exhilarating details of trying to live a good (not 
hedonistic — good) life, and the best quotations page 
I’ve ever seen. 
—Anne Herbert 
The Sun 
Sy Safransky, Editor 
$28 /year 
(12 issues) from: 
The Sun 
412 West Rosemary Street 
Chapel Hill, NC 27514 
305 
The Hobbit 
J.R.R. Tolkien 
1938 
The Lord of 
the Rings 
J.R.R. Tolkien 
1955 (3 volumes) 
The Hobbit and 
the Lord of 
the Rings 
(Paperback boxed set) 
$24.45 
($28.45 postpaid) from: 
Houghton-Mifflin 
Mail Order Dept. 
Wayside Road 
Burlington, MA 01803 
or Whole Earth Access 
The 
Once 
and 
Future 
King 
T.H. White 
1985; 639 pp. 
$4.95 
($5.70 postpaid) from: 
Berkley Publishing Group 
390 Murray Hill Pkwy. 
East Rutherford, NJ 07073 
or Whole Earth Access 
$1 O/year 
(41 issues) from: 
Manas Publishing 
Company 
P. O. Box 32112 
El Sereno Station 
Los Angeles, CA 90032 
