Taking Care of Your Child 
A companion volume to Vickery and Fries’ Take Care of 
Yourself: 
A Consumer's Guide to Medical Care (p. 206), 
Taking Care of Your Child includes decision charts — 
clinical algorithms — for the 96 most common childhood 
medical problems. Additional brief, solid chapters on 
pregnancy, birth, physical and psychological develop- 
ment, school problems, and immunizations. Includes a 
log for recording your child’s immunization records. 
The best available home medical guide for parents. 
—Tom Ferguson, M.D. 
Mothering 
I’ve watched Mothering evolve from a warm, visually 
attractive, down-home and relatively unsophisticated new 
publication to a warm, visually attractive, down-home, 
broader and more professional alternative “‘family’’ 
magazine. While the mechanical quality has improved, 
Mothering has retained a special feeling of intimate 
communication with and between its readers. 
Mothering is a quarterly publication about the “‘art of 
nurturing.’’ Regular feature sections include: The Art of 
Mothering, Family Health, A Child’s World, Pregnancy 
and Birth, Midwifery, Choices in Education, and Family 
Living. Each issue also offers articles on home cooking , 
fathering, breastfeeding and family centered business, as 
well as an ongoing dialogue between readers, compre- 
hensive reviews of related books, and unique black and 
white photography throughout. 
—Katy Addison-Peet 
® 
War toy sales have increased 600 percent over the past 
three years. 
The typical war cartoon averages 41 acts of violence per 
hour with an attempted murder every two minutes. 
Festivals, Family and Food 
e The Alternate 
Celebrations Catalogue 
We can spend so much time thinking about our children 
and our parenting. This book helps us find new and mean- 
ingful ways to be with our children and our loved ones. 
Festivals, Family and Food contains poems, inspirational 
sayings, recipes, activities, and historical perspective for 
celebrating lots of new holidays and adding meaning to 
the “‘regulars.’’ The authors of the book are British and 
the holidays mentioned reflect this, and some recipes will 
have to be adapted by those using whole wheat flour and 
minimizing sweeteners, and only Christian holidays are 
included. But used along with The Alternate Celebrations 
Catalogue we can begin to create new, vibrant and 
personal traditions in our families. 
—Peggy O’Mara McMahon 
e 
The theme of this book is a simple but bold suggestion; 
that if rituals and festivals have traditionally contributed 
to the integration and stability of communities and soci- 
eties, then in the modern context they may do the same 
for our personal integration and for a healthy social 
ethos. ‘Family’ today may be in new forms, with single 
parents or single individuals joining together or with 
couples and their children. . 
. 
. Even if we manage only 
once a year to gather with friends or relatives in cele- 
bration of one festival or occasion, this is time well spent. 
oe 
All Souls’ Day 
November 2 is by tradition the Day of All Souls, and it 
was long believed that the unhappy souls of the dead 
would return to their former homes. On the eve of All 
LEARNING 
PARENTING 359 
Nausea/ Vomiting Home Treatment 
Avoid solid foods. Frequent, small feedings of clear 
liquids should be given instead. A tablespoon of clear 
fluid every few minutes will usually stay down. Often, 
Popsicles or iced fruit bars will work if nothing else will 
stay down. As the condition improves, larger amounts of 
fluids and then jello and applesauce may be given. 
Sometimes, sucking on hard candy or chewing ice chips 
helps. In younger children you may wish to give com- 
mercially available electrolyte solutions (Pedialyte, 
Lytren). These are effective in keeping children from 
becoming dehydrated but are of very little caloric value. 
Taking Care 
of Your Child 
Robert H. Pantell, M.D. 
James F. Fries, M.D. 
Donald M. Vickery, M.D. 
1984; 444 pp. 
$14.95 
postpaid from: 
Addison-Wesley 
Publishing Company 
1 Jacob Way 
Reading, MA 01867 
or Whole Earth Access 
An attempted murder is a standard act of violence in 
cartoon monitoring and is, by far, the most common act 
of violence. 
The average American child will see 800 advertisements 
promoting war toys on TV this year and about 250 
episodes of war cartoons produced to sell these toys. 
This is the equivalent of 22 days of classroom instruction. 
Souls it was customary to keep kitchens warm and leave 
Mothering 
food on the table overnight for the visiting spirits. Until 
Peggy O’Mara McMahon, 
1850 the following ‘Shropshire Soul Cakes’ were distri- 
Editor 
buted on All Souls’ Day, and there is a similar ‘souls 
15 
cake’ tradition in Belgium, Bavaria and the Tyrol. 
$ 
: 
lyear 
) 
(4 issues) from: 
Shropshire Soul Cakes 
Mothering 
3 lbs plain flour 
P. O. Box 8410 
8 oz softened butter 
8 oz sugar 
1 oz yeast 
2 eggs 
1 teaspoon allspice 
milk 
Sift the flour and work in the slightly softened butter. 
Cream the yeast with a teaspoon of the sugar. Mix flour 
with the eggs, yeast and enough milk to make a light 
dough. Leave to rise, covered, in a warm place for 
about thirty minutes. Then work in the sugar and spice 
and form into flat bun shapes. Let rise for fiteen minutes, 
then bake at 425°F (Reg 7) for fifteen minutes. 
—Festivals, Family and Food 
The Alternate 
Celebrations 
Catalogue 
Milo Shannon-Thornberry 
1982; 192 pp. 
Santa Fe, NM 87504 
Festivals, Family 
and Food 
Diana Carey 
and Judy Large 
1982; 216 pp. 
$12.95 
$8.95 
($15.95 postpaid) from: 
($10.45 postpaid) from: 
Hearthsong 
Pilgrim Press 
P. O. Box B 
132 W. 31st St./15th Floor 
New York, NY 10001 
or Whole Earth Access 
Sebastopol, CA 95472 
