INTRODUCTION 
N PAGE 152 of The Essential Whole 
Earth Catalog is an essay by editor J. 
Baldwin titled “One Highly-Evolved 
Toolbox.” It could have been the title 
of the whole book. In an earlier printing of the 
essay (it itself has evolved through four editions), 
J. wrote: 
“Our portable shop has been evolving for about 
twenty years now. There’s nothing very special about 
it except that a continuing process of removing ob- 
solete or inadequate tools and replacing them with 
more suitable ones has resulted in a collection that 
has become a thing-making system rather than 
a pile of hardware.” 
Just so with the Whole Earth Catalog. Though the 
book has been made wholly new five times now 
since I started the process in 1968, it was the con- 
stant daily research for our magazine Whole Earth 
Review (formerly CoEvolution Quarterly) that kept 
and keeps us current. What started as a kind of 
precocious-kid operation has had maturity thrust 
upon it — partly through the hard knocks of busi- 
ness survival, partly through the maturing of its 
audience and its makers, partly through the refin- 
ing of the fields it reports on. 
We've seen enthusiasms like communes come 
and go, enthusiasms like solar energy come and 
stabilize, and enthusiasms like 
electronic communications 
come and keep coming. 
We've always 
pushed self-publishing; now we can push desktop 
publishing (p. 316). Right up to the 1981 Whole 
Earth Catalog, all the how-to books we reviewed 
were books. Now there are 1,000 how-to video 
cassettes on the market (see p. 331). The original 
Whole Earth Catalog got a somewhat inaccurate 
reputation as a back-to-the-land bible. All this 
edition has to offer rural life is primarily urban 
tools. The prevalence of satellite dishes on the 
countryside suggests that urbanity has less and 
less to do with clusters of tall buildings and ever 
more to do with global perspective. 
My name is on the cover mainly as an indication 
of continuity. I had a hand in selecting items to 
repeat from previous Catalogs and participated in 
renaming the sections, but my role with Whole 
Earth these days is one of richly enjoyed emeritus. 
Kevin Kelly runs the place with a far more capable 
hand than mine, and J. Baldwin made production 
on this Catalog sing like none before. You can see 
the ever-growing skill of old hands like naturalist/ 
reviewer Peter Warshall and designer Kathleen 
O’Neill. You can also see the fresh perspective 
brought by a generation of newcomers. The pro- 
duction and research crews are about half and 
half of each. 
The original core idea is intact. Instead of trying 
to review everything that exists, the Whole Earth 
Catalog only recommends what it finds to be the 
best available across the widest spectrum of use- 
fulness it can discover. The reviews are written 
and excerpts selected as if they were advertising 
written by customers, the way you tell a friend 
about something you found that you’ve come to 
love. We know we haven’t identified everything 
wonderful, but since excellence leads to excellence 
we can trust the reader to keep up the search 
beyond these pages. 
The “Whole Earth” in the title refers to planetary 
perspective, not to the range of our coverage. Some 
day maybe, but I hope not — the world might 
gain by seeing itself whole, but it should forever 
elude coverage by anybody. 
Of the 1962 items recommended here, 1086 are 
books, 297 are magazines, 579 are mail order sup- 
pliers. Each is an opportunity to learn a skill. In 
times even more in transition than the times that 
were a-changin’ in the ’60s, there is no safer and 
more rewarding strategy than the routine acquiring 
and use of new skills. 
“Live and learn” is a redundancy. Live is learn. = 
