Nurseries 
Chestnut Hill Nursery: Home of the Dunstan Hybrid 
Chestnut, highly resistant to the bark fungus that wiped 
out the American Chestnut early this century. Chestnuts 
used to be the dominant species of the eastern hardwood 
forest, and their comeback is underway here. 
Catalog free from Rural Route 1, Box 341, Alachua, FL 32615 
Lawson's Nursery: Owner James Lawson describes his 
business as “‘just a hobby that has gotten a little out of 
hand.’’ He specializes in over one hundred old variety 
apples on dwarfing rootstocks. 
Catalog free from Route 1, Box 294, Bau Ground, GA 30107 
Miller Nurseries: Family owned operation offering fruits, 
nuts, berries, and some ornamental trees. Strong on 
winter-hardy varieties, especially grapes. 
Catalog free from 5060 West Lake Road, Canandaigua, 
NY 14424. 
New York State Fruit Testing Cooperative Association: 
This cooperative exists primarily to evaluate and in- 
troduce new varieties of fruit, but they also sell some 
North American 
Fruit Explorers (NAFEX) 
These folks are backyard orchardists, many with a lifetime 
of experience to share on everything having to do with 
fruit orchards. Their quarterly, Pomona, exchanges 
member information that is priceless. They exchange 
plant materials, have a lending library, and stay together 
by refusing to argue over the finer points of organic vs. 
nonorganic orcharding. This policy of sunny noncontroversy 
is occasionally disrupted by a delightful downpour of 
disagreement, but there is no scientific snobbery. Anyone 
with some experience is urged to share it and they will let 
it stand on its own merit. 
—Peter Beckstrand 
@ 
As the result of genetic research performed in Germany 
in the 1920’s . 
. 
. we now have a new soft fruit worthy of 
trial here in America, the Josta. 
The Jostaberry plant is the result of a cross between 
black currant and gooseberry. It is far more vigorous 
than all existing varieties of either of its parents. .. 
. 
The taste of the Jostaberry is unique. The berries unite 
the refreshing acidity and the fine aroma of the goose- 
berry with the distinctly tasteable aroma of the black 
currant. 
. 
. . The berries are very suitable for jam and 
juice. They also freeze very well and can be stored for a 
long time without any loss of quality. 
Pruning 
This book neatly combines what you need to do with why 
it needs doing. Since beginners often equate pruning with 
vegetative barbarism, these explanations are most 
helpful. Fruit trees are covered as well as grapes, berries, 
roses, hedges, and other ornamentals. 
—Richard Nilsen 
¢ For more on selecting fruit trees see Designing and 
Maintaining Your Edible Landscape Naturally. (p. 69). 
¢ For cultivating fruit trees see one of two regional HP 
books: Fruits, Berries & Nuts for the Midwest and East or 
Western Fruit, Berries and Nuts (p. 69). 
¢ For buying fruit trees, see also Peaceful Valley Farm 
Supply (p. 85). 
Miller Nurseries winter hardy Sweet Black Kristin cherry. 
older apple varieties. Geared to serve commercial 
growers, but membership is open to all. Reasonable 
prices, even for individual trees. 
Catalog $5 from Geneva, NY 14456. 
Stark Bros.’ Nurseries and Orchards: One of the oldest 
and largest fruit nurseries in the country. They also sell 
nut, shade and ornamental trees and shrubs. 
Catalog free from P. O. Box 2281F, Louvisana, MO 
63353-0010. 
Southmeadow Fruit Gardens: Two hundred thirty-nine (!) 
rare and old apple varieties; also pears, peaches, 
apricots, plums, cherries, berries, and grapes. The 
catalog is a treasure-house of varietal information. 
Catalog $8; price list free; both from Lakeside, MI 49116. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Ecological Fruit Production 
in the North 
Do you live so high up or so far north that every time you 
look something up in a gardening book you’re right off 
the edge of the charts? If you are trying to raise fruit, this 
book should rank as a minor miracle. It is a self-published 
gem by two fruit farmers from Quebec who define ‘‘the 
North’’ as what's above a line running from New York 
City through St. Louis to Santa Fe, and then up the spine 
of the Rockies and over to Vancouver. In addition, author 
Jean Richard explains a method of restorative pruning for 
mature trees that he learned as a kid in Switzerland in 
the 1930s. It apparently works wonders on old standard 
apple trees and is about as different as you can get from 
the open-center pruning most books describe. 
—Richard Nilsen 
In temperate and boreal climates the ultimate factor 
controlling a plant’s suitability is whether or not it will 
survive the winters. Is it hardy? . 
. 
. Far too many north- 
erners, on both sides of the border, have planted trees 
which having come from milder climate are simply not 
suitable for their area. 
. . 
. Furthermore, it is an infrequent 
but regular occurrence to have an extraordinarily cold 
winter which rigorously eliminates all the trees which are 
marginally hardy in an area. In northeastern North 
America, the winters of 1904, 1917, 1934, and 1981 
were especially cold, and fit into this category of ‘’Test 
Winters’’ — winters that test the real hardiness of a tree. 
In the Northeast, trees which have survived one or more 
of these onslaughts can be assumed to be fully hardy. 
One of the easiest ways to train young trees to develop 
wider crotches is to use spring-type clothespins. Install 
Perna when shoots are 6 to 8 inches long and still 
exible. 
ORCHARDS 
LAND USE 63 
NAFEX 
Membership $6/year 
(includes quarterly 
Pomona) from: 
POMONA / North 
American Fruit Explorers 
10 South 055 Madison St. 
Hinsdale, IL 60521 
Ecological Fruit 
Production in 
the North 
Bart Hall-Beyer 
and Jean Richard 
1983; 270 pp. 
$11.50 
($12.75 postpaid) from: 
Bart Hall-Beyer 
Ro Reo 
Scottstown, Quebec 
JOB 3B0 Canada 
or Whole Earth Access 
Pruning 
Michael MacCaskey and 
Robert L. Stebbins 
1983; 160 pp. 
$9.95 
($11.90 postpaid) from: 
HPBooks 
P. O. Box 5367 
Tucson, AZ 85703 
or Whole Earth Access 
