3 "WHOLE SYSTEMS 
WATERSHEDS 
“Although the river and the hill-side do not resemble each 
other at first sight, they are only extreme members of a 
continuous series, and when this is appreciated, one may 
ST 4 2 A val N G WwW i S D Oo al A 
fairly extend the “‘river’’ all over the basin and up to its 
® 
very divides. Ordinarily treated, the river is like the veins 
of a leaf; broadly viewed, it is like the entire leaf.’ 
—W.M. Davis (1899) 
Watershed Consciousness in the 20th Century 
By Peter Warshall 
N OUR TOWNS AND CITIES, two of the essential sources of life — 
water to drink and soil to grow food — remain hidden from our eyes. 
The hills and valleys are coated with asphalt, ancient streams are buried 
beneath housing, and soil is filler between gas, water and electric piping. 
Watershed consciousness is, in part, an invitation to peel off (not discard) the 
layer of industrial and technological activity that hides us from the water and 
soils of our communities. It is an invitation to reveal where you live and how 
your body’s plumbing and, in many ways, community heart, are connected to 
Nature’s pathways. 
Stratification scheme for valley bottomland units. 
A watershed is a gatherer — a living place that draws the sun and the rain 
together. Its surface of soils, rocks, and plantlife acts as a “commons”’ for this 
River or Lake Basin 
intermingling of sun and water. Physically, 
a watershed takes many shapes. It is 
drawn emblematically in the shape of a teardrop or a cupped leaf or a garden 
trowel to depict the oblong dish-shape of the valley with its elevated hillslopes 
which gather runoff toward a central stream. But most watersheds do not 
faithfully copy the emblematic drawings. Uplifting or faulting or downwarping 
or layering give them a beautiful individuality. Human influences may distort 
Or, as in city watersheds and strip-mining, completely destroy the original lay of 
the land. The bedrock texture of each watershed — its granite or shale, sand or 
limestone — holds (in a sense, cherishes) each watershed’s fragile skin of soil. 
After the sun/water gathering has been accomplished, the watershed lets go: its 
unused water heading downstream or sky-up; its unabsorbed energy turning to 
heat or reflecting back through the atmosphere. This seasonal and daily passage 
of solar fire, water’s flow, and the earth’s metabolic breathing is as unique, in 
each watershed, as each human on the planet. 
Watershed 
GREAT SALT LAKE 
< Tributary ¥ 
For humans, the watershed (and its big cousin, the river basin) is a hydraulic 
cae mg 
commons — an aquatic contract that has no escape clause. From the forested 
A 
BorroMLAND 
headwaters to the agricultural midstream valleys to the commercial and indus- 
trial centers at the river’s mouth, good and bad news travels by way of water. 
Did my toilet flushing give downstream swimmers a gastrointestinal disease? 
Did the headwaters clearcut kill the salmon industry at the river’s mouth? Did 
my city’s need for water drain off a river and close upriver farmland that fed 
me fresh vegetables? Did a toxic waste dump leak into the groundwater table 
and poison people in the next county? Watershed consciousness is, in part, a 
promotional campaign to advertise the mutual concerns and needs that bind 
upstream and downstream, instream and offstream peoples together. 
GREAT SALT LAKE 
SS 
TERRESTRIAL 
This journey is right out your window — among the hills and valleys that surround 
you. It is the first excursion of thought into the place you live. It is not inner 
geography — the continuing attempt to feel better by mapping the mysterious 
meanderings of our hearts and minds — nor is it whole Earth geography — the 
struggle to gain perspective of our place on the planet. It focuses on where your 
water comes from when you turn on the faucet; where it goes when you flush; 
what soils produce your food; who shares your water supply, including the fish 
and other nonhuman creatures. The watershed way is a middle way, singing a 
local song, somewhere close by, between Mind and Planet. 
4 
; 
iB 
; 
© RIPARIAN 
f 
My A 
2 TERRESTRIAL 
Local Community 
