HEALTH 
240 
Sat) 
Underwater elongated ‘’S”’ 
pull pattern. 
Swim for Fitness 
Marianne Brems 
1979; 173 pp. 
$7.95 
($9.45 postpaid) from: 
Chronicle Books 
One Hallidie Plaza 
Suite 806 
San Francisco, CA 94102 
or Whole Earth Access 
Swimming for 
Fitness Video 
$53.95 
postpaid from: 
Swimming for Fitness 
16 East 3rd Avenue 
Suite 2-G 
San Mateo, CA 94401 
Neuromuscular 
Training Skiing 
Video 
$93.45 postpaid 
Catalog free from: 
SyberVision 
Fountain Square 
6066 Civic Terrace Ave. 
Newark, CA 94560 
FITNESS 
Mp 
Swim for Fitness 
The explanations of what to do in the water are brief 
and to the point, and the diagrams are excellent. Un- 
less you are already an expert swimmer, this book will 
help you swim more efficiently. It’s written by an avid 
competitive swimmer. 
—Richard Nilsen 
< 
In freestyle, as in the other strokes, you move forward 
not by moving water backward, as is sometimes thought, 
but by pushing the arms and legs against the resistance 
offered by the water. 
. 
. 
. 
If you can press your hand against water that is not 
moving, you can push yourself further forward than if 
you are in water that is already moving backward... 
. 
Make an elongated ’’S’’ pattern with your hands when 
you swim freestyle. This way your hand will avoid follow- 
ing a column of water that is moving from the moment 
you begin your pull backwards. 
The hand zigzags back and forth so that it may constantly 
encounter still water, which will offer the greatest 
resistance. ... 
The arm is bent significantly throughout the major portion 
of the pull. The reason for this is that leverage is greatest 
with a bent arm. 
& 
Butterfly with breastroke 
Pp 
Timing of the arms and legs. 
Overtraining 
Overtraining occurs when the body suffers failing adap- 
tation to stress. 
Stress must decrease in order for recovery to take place. 
Signs of overtraining are: 
Insomnia. 
Awakening hot and sweaty at night. 
An increased basal heart rate. 
Irritability and sudden anger. 
Possible signs of overtraining: 
A working heart rate which is reluctant to drop. 
Sudden weight loss. 
An increase in resting blood pressure. 
The chance of heat exhaustion and injury because of 
overtraining is quite low in swimming. 
2 
ee 
Fitness Video Cassettes 
In most video parlors, the sports section ranges from All 
Star Wrestling to SuperBowl Highlites, but for those who’d 
rather participate than spectate, there are a few fitness 
tapes, beginning with the Jane Fonda workouts, and 
including how-to videos on golf, tennis, and baseball. 
More specialized topics exist, but seldom as rentals. 
Boardsurfing, soccer, running, and yoga are among the 
newer issues, and are advertised in the magazines that 
cover each activity. 
The more complex the skill, the more a visual demonstra- 
tion can help. Take swimming, where technique not only 
makes all the difference, but is frustratingly hard to learn. 
Swimming for Fitness, featuring ex-Olympian Donna de 
Varona, is a somewhat mistitled tape that’s actually 
aimed at improving form. Beginning with arm pull for 
beginners and going through advanced butterfly tech- 
niques, there’s enough to keep anyone studying for hours. 
The slow motion and underwater shots teach in a way 
that no book could. 
A different approach is taken by SyberVision. Their ski 
cassette, for example, shows the same skiers doing the 
same turns on the same hill, time after time. The theory is 
that this neural programming will translate into improved 
performance, and indeed | found that after watching for 
an hour, | was unconsciously weighting and unweighting 
as | mentally made turns. 
I’d guess that this approach is most effective if seen 
immediately before skiing, whereas the swim cassette is 
something to be mulled over during many workouts. The 
whole field is new, so you pay your money and take your 
chances. Let me know what happens. 
—Dick Fugett 
United States 
Masters Swimming 
Swimming is the easiest way we earthlings can escape 
the relentless force of gravity. Because water is denser 
than flesh, the body floats. Moving through water uses all 
the muscles in the body and avoids continuous jarring 
contact with terra firma. That’s why swimming is the 
single best physical therapy for injured bodies. 
It is also an excellent form of lifetime exercise. As an 
organized activity it is called Masters Swimming. This 
international body has 20,000 U.S. members and offers 
competition within 5-year age brackets from the twenties 
clear into the eighties. Fully half of the members never 
compete and swim only for the exercise. Masters Swim- 
ming offers access to pools, instruction for improvement in 
stroke techniques, and camaraderie. 
—Richard Nilsen 
U.S. Masters 
Swimming, Inc. 
Information free from: 
U.S. Masters Swimming 
C/O Dorothy Donnelley 
5 Piggott Lane 
Avon, CT 06001 
For adult fitness and competitive swimmers, with specialized 
articles (‘‘Chlorine, Asthma and Swimming’’) and 
nontechnical presentation. 
Swim Magazine: Bob Hansen, Editor. $12/year (6 issues) 
from Swim, P. O. Box 2168, Simi Valley, CA 93062. 
