HEALTH 
214 
Emergency 
Medical Guide 
John Henderson, M. D. 
1978; 681 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
McGraw Hill 
Order Dept. 
Princeton Road 
Hightstown, NJ 08520 
or Whole Earth Access 
Mountaineering 
First Aid 
Martha J. Lentz, Ph.D., 
R.N., et al. 
1985; 112 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid 
Medicine For 
Mountaineering 
James A. Wilkerson, 
M.D., Editor 
1985; 438 pp. 
| 0.95 postpaid 
Both from: 
Mountaineer Books 
306 Second Avenue West 
Seattle, WA 98119 
or Whole Earth Access 
FIRST AID 
Emergency Medical Guide 
No special knowledge or skill is required to use this up- 
to-date first aid guide, though one might wish for a less 
academic tone of voice. ‘“Emergency”’ doesn’t just mean 
accident, either — there are instructions for treating acute 
illness and delivering a baby away from medical assistance. 
An anatomy lesson is included to help you understand 
what’s going on, and there is a good bit of emergency 
prevention advice. Everybody should have this sort of 
knowledge available, preferably in their head. 
—JB 
<q 
The Heimlich maneuver. (A) As quickly as the victim 
signals distress, the rescuer grasps him from behind. (B) 
The rescuer’s fist should be pressed into the upper 
abdomen at the spot marked by the cross. (C) Correct 
position of rescuer when patient is found lying face up. 
Note the placement of the hand, which permits a quick 
upward thrust. 
8 
Pavement can get surprisingly hot (up to 172° F or more) 
even on relatively cool days, and black asphalt surfaces 
get much hotter than white concrete surfaces since they 
absorb more and reflect less heat. A person lying un- 
conscious, unable to move, on such a surface can sustain 
severe burns on exposed areas of the body in a rela- 
tively short period of time. 
Mountaineering First Aid 
e Medicine For Mountaineering 
First aid books tell you what to do ‘til the doctor comes. 
But what if the doctor isn’t coming? Mountaineering First 
Aid is a brief, light booklet outlining seven steps (includ- 
ing basic first aid) that will help “‘stabilize the situation. “’ 
The steps are intended to help you organize and keep 
psychologically cool under trying circumstances. First aid 
is only part of it; you must insure the safety of the other 
members of the party and get everyone back to safety. 
Good stuff to know for anyone who ventures beyond 
the parking lot. 
Medicine for Mountaineering is a much more detailed 
discussion of the same principles and situations. It, too, 
accents the psychology involved in boondock emergencies 
— acritical aspect that is only now being recognized. 
® 
—JB 
Seven steps for first aid response: 
Step 1. Take charge of the situation 
Step 2. Approach the victim safely 
Step 3. Perform emergency rescue and urgent first aid 
Step 4. Protect the victim 
Step 5. Check for other injuries 
Step 6. Plan what to do 
i 
Step 7. Carry out the plan 
—Mountaineering First Aid 
e 
Normal reactions to stress: Reactions to stress may be 
immediate or delayed. Immediate reactions among 
rescuers at the accident site — which are normal — in- 
clude anxiety and apprehension, doubts about their 
abilities, or hopelessness and despair, which are often 
mixed with denial or ‘‘splitting.’’ Some rescuers ex- 
perience cognitive difficulties, forgetting where they put 
things and finding decisions hard to make. ‘’Rescuers in 
all types of incidents report nausea, a pounding sensa- 
tion in their hearts, muscle tremors, cramps, profuse 
sweating, chills, headaches, and muffled hearing.” 
—Medicine for Mountaineering 
CUT AND 
FOLD OVER 
% INCH WIDE 
ADHESIVE TAPE 
Fingers: Dislocations of the fingers, which 
occur most commonly at the second joint, may 
be corrected quite easily immediately after 
the dislocation by pulling on the injured digit. 
The injured finger can then be splinted effect- 
ively by taping it to an adjacent uninjured 
finger. Dislocations of the thumb are usually 
accompanied by a fracture of the bone at the 
base of the thumb. Such injuries are seldom 
stable when corrected by manipulation alone 
and are best treated in the field by total 
| 
immobilization. 
—Medicine For Mountaineering 
—Mountaineering 
First Aid 
A Sigh of Relief 
This is an ultra-simple first aid handbook for childhood 
emergencies. Some would say too simple, but it'll get 
things started and may greatly decrease unnecessary 
worry. The large format and bold index make it easy to 
find what you need fast. Just the thing for babysitters. 
—JB 
e 
Electric shock: Important: do not touch the child directly 
while he remains in contact with the current. Stand on 
something dry — a blanket, rubber mat, newspapers, 
etc. — and push away the child or the source of the 
shock with a dry board or pole. 
v 
A Sigh of Relief 
Martin J. Green 
1984; 264 pp. 
$12.95 
($14.45 postpaid) from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, IL 60016 
or Whole Earth Access 
First Aid Kits 
Two extra nice first aid kits: one for timber workers from 
Bailey’s (p. 127) and the one you see in fancy foreign 
cars (packed in a handy pillow), from Mecial Self-Care 
Catalog (p. 207). 
—JB 
¢ The best book for Third World medical situations. (Also 
available in Spanish, Portuguese, and Khmer.) 
Where There Is No Doctor: David Werner, 1977; 403 pp. 
$8 postpaid from The Hesperian Foundation, P. O. Box 
1692, Palo Alto, CA 94302 (or Whole Earth Access). 
