—— 
Alcoholics Anonymous 
Known to most AAs as the Big Book, Alcoholics Anonymous 
is the Bible of the program. It explains briefly how AA 
came into being and how it works. It describes AA’s pro- 
gram for living (and thriving) sober. It also contains accounts 
by 42 AAs of their alcoholism, from progressive drinking 
to hitting bottom to entering AA and on to recovery. 
Two other AA books — in Twelve Steps and Twelve Tradi- 
tions, “a co-founder of Alcoholics Anonymous tells how 
members recover and how the society functions.’’ Living 
Sober has “‘some methods AA members have used for 
not drinking.“” 
©—A member of Alcoholics Anonymous 
Alcoholics 
Anonymous 
1976; 575 pp. 
$5.65 postpaid; 
Living Sober 
1975; 87 pp. 
$1 «75 postpaid; 
Twelve Steps and 
Twelve Traditions 
1953; 192 pp. 
$4 postpaid; 
all from: 
Alcoholics Anonymous 
World Services, Inc. 
P. O. Box 459 
Grand Central Station 
New York, NY 10163 
We have three little mottoes which are apropos. 
Here they are: 
First Things First 
Live and Let Live 
Easy Does it | —Alcoholics Anonymous 
Kicking It 
This is a tough but supportive book, discussing the 
physiological and emotional dependency on cigarets. 
Through a series of habit-breaking techniques, the book 
teaches you how to conquer your addiction to smoking. 
Author David Geisinger also provides a thoughtful 
analysis of the sociology of smoking. 
—Rochelle Perrine Schmalz 
e 
Wrap your cigarettes. By wrapping the pack of cigarettes 
in a piece of newspaper held on by a rubber band in 
such a way that a cigarette cannot be removed without 
taking off the band and unwrapping the paper, you will 
be raising your awareness and beginning to ‘‘de- 
robotize’’ yourself... . 
If you are asked by anyone why you have your cigarettes 
wrapped, say something like, ‘’It’s part of a program I’m 
engaged in to stop smoking.’’ Always remember to stay 
with the spirit of this program, which is to “‘go public’’ 
whenever it seems reasonable to do so. If people ask 
about the program, they deserve an honest answer; 
give them one. 
LLG IIT IEE ET INE TT ESTEE OTE LTE TE ISTE TE EAT OLR LT OTE 
* Rochelle Perrine Schmalz is director of Planelree Health 
Resource Center (p. 207). 
¢ See Don't Shoot the Dog (p. 225). 
ENDING ADDICTIONS 
Out of the Shadows 
A few years ago we* were asked to research sex addiction 
and found little information on the subject. Out of the 
Shadows addresses this issue in a frank, readable, and 
compassionate manner, and brings into the open the 
problem of compulsive sexual behavior. 
Author Patrick Carnes identifies three levels of sexual 
addiction and discusses the importance of family relation- 
ships in the development of the recovery from this com- 
pulsive behavior. 
By using the 12 Steps program of Alcoholics Anonymous, 
Carnes gives hope and understanding to the 6-10 percent 
of us who suffer from this kind of addiction. 
—Rochelle Perrine Schmalz 
e 
When a child’s exploration of sexuality goes beyond 
discovery to routine self-comforting because of the lack 
of human care, there is potential for addiction. Sex 
becomes confused with comforting and nurturing. More- 
over, the assumption is made that everyone else feels 
and acts the same. Therefore, to feel secure means to 
be sexual. 
Consequently, the child’s relationships with people have 
the potential of being replaced with an addictive rela- 
tionship with sexuality. Addiction is a relationship — 
a pathological relationship in which sexual obsession 
replaces people. And it can start very early. The final 
core belief of the addict emerges clearly: Sex is my 
most important need. 
The Coke Book 
A reliable reference book on what cocaine is, its uses and 
abuses, its effects on mind and body, and how the drug 
can profoundly affect your life. 
The authors don’t preach, but they do provide straight- 
forward information that allows you to make your own 
decisions about cocaine. 
|§ —Rochelle Perrine Schmalz 
The coca plant — Erythroxylum coca — is indigenous to 
the eastern Andes mountains of South America, where 
today it is most commonly cultivated at elevations be- 
tween 500 and 1,500 meters. 
The plant is thought to have emerged long before the 
first human — or humanlike creature — walked the earth. 
The fourteen alkaloids in its leaves — cocaine is but one 
of these — probably evolved as chemical defenses to ward 
off animals anticipating a good meal of fresh greenery. 
Coca remains today relatively free of insect pests, and 
grazing animals seldom bother the plants. 
Euphoria: The most sought-after (and talked about) 
response to coke. At low doses (anywhere from one to 
seven “‘lines’’ if snorted, depending on the drug’s purity) 
it has been described as rapture, exhilaration, joy, giddi- 
ness, and an intense ‘‘rush.’’ At continued high doses 
(four to nine “‘lines’’ depending on purity), agitation 
and nervous excitability are often reported, sometimes, 
with chronic abuse, leading to delirium. 
Narcotics Anonymous 
Based on the 12 Steps and 12 Traditions of Alcoholics 
Anonymous, NA serves the needs of addicts who have 
decided to quit using drugs. Like AA, NA is not affiliated 
with other organizations. They welcome anyone with an 
honest desire to quit using drugs, “‘regardless of age, 
race, color, creed, religion or lack of religion.’’ Approx- 
imately 6,200 NA groups currently meet in the U.S. 
—Jeanne Carstensen 
HEALTH 223 
Out of the Shadows 
Patrick Carnes, Ph.D 
1983; 173 pp. 
$8.95 
($10.45 postpaid) from: 
CompCare Publications 
2415 Annapolis Lane 
Minneapolis, MN 55441 
The Coke Book 
Lawrence D. Chilnick 
1984; 233 pp. 
$3.50 
($5 postpaid) from: 
Berkeley Publishing Group 
G. P. Putnam’s Sons 
200 Madison Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth Access 
Kicking It 
David L. Geisinger 
1980; 160 pp. 
$2.50 
($3.50 postpaid) from: 
New American Library 
120 Woodbine Street 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621 
or Whole Earth Access 
Narcotics 
Anonymous 
information free from: 
World Service Office, Inc. 
Narcotics Anonymous 
16155 Wyandotte Street 
Van Nuys, CA 91406 
