LAND USE 
78 
Gardener’s Supply 
Company 
Catalog free from: 
Gardener’s Supply 
Company 
128 Intervale Road 
Burlington, VT 05401 
Green River Tools 
Catalog free from: 
Green River Tools 
5 Cotton Mill Hill 
P. O. Box 1919 
Brattleboro, VT 05301 
Smith & Hawken 
Catalog free from: 
Smith & Hawken 
25 Corte Madera 
Mill Valley, CA 94941 
GARDEN TOOLS 
Gardener’s Supply Co. 
e Green River Tools 
e Smith & Hawken 
All three of these mail order companies stress quality and 
useful innovation. Quality because it takes less material 
and energy to build one tool well than many tools cheaply. 
Cheap garden tools tend to break either themselves or 
your back and end up being expensive choices in the 
long run. The search for innovation and quality often 
leads abroad; many of the tools come from Europe and 
Japan. With rare exceptions, American manufacturers 
have abdicated the quality garden tool market. 
Gardener’s Supply Co. grew out of Gardens for All in 
Vermont (now known as the National Gardening Associa- 
tion — see page 76). The catalog is aimed squarely at 
home vegetable gardeners, and in addition to tools fea- 
tures home canning equipment and organic pest controls. 
Green River Tools is the unique one of the three catalogs, 
and its top-of-the-line selections make it the most expen- 
sive on some items. It matches high quality with high 
idealism — for example, they do not sell teak gardening 
benches, currently a staple item in many catalogs. Instead 
you are politely advised that teak benches contribute to 
the destruction of endangered tropical rainforests and are 
offered American-made versions in white cedar or red 
oak. Green River is also strong on Dutch hand tools and 
features the revolutionary Ladbrooke soil block makers for 
propagating seedlings. 
Smith & Hawken introduced American gardeners to the 
Bulldog line of English forks and spades, tools so well 
made they are likely to end up as items in wills. The 
catalog is aimed primarily at suburban horticulturists and 
also offers a fine selection of Japanese garden and flower 
arranging fools. 
For such highly selective catalogs the amount of duplica- 
tion among this trio is small; | suggest browsing through 
each of them. 
—Richard Nilsen 
These unique season extenders perform an important double function 
— they protect young plants from the cold by night and shield them 
from excess heat by day. How they work is fascinating. During the 
day, the water absorbs heat, moderating temperatures inside 
the tepee. As the water cools down by night, it releases its 
heat slowly (as much as 900,000 calories of heat!). Even if the 
Re 
water begins to freeze, it releases more and more heat for better pro- 
tection. Wall O’ Water protects plants from temperatures as low as 10°F! 
—Gardeners Supply 
Dr. Hans Loehrl, a protege of Konrad Lorenz and retired head of the Bird Observatory 
of Radolfszell, West Germany, spent 30 years testing and improving the birdhouses 
shown here. 
—Green River Tools 
Garden Fork, 40”’ 
with FD handle, 
$42.40 
Spading fork. 
Overall length 42”. 
$35.80 
Garden Fork, 44” 
with YD handle, 
$37.50 
Garden Fork, 
64” with straight 
handle, $42.40 
The Gardening Fork (on right) has English-style, square 
shaped tines while the Spading Fork (on left) has broader, 
flatter tines recommended for heavier soil. 
—Smith & Hawken 
@ 
Weeder (hori hori). | first saw this tool strapped to a 
farmer’s waist and thought it was a knife. Upon inspec- 
tion, it turned out to be a knife-shaped weeder. This is a 
true grubber, a tool that can remove any rooted weed in 
the ground. It pulls, pierces, cuts and pries. Not a bad 
item for a camping trip either. Comes with case with belt 
loop. Weight: 10/2 oz. Blade length: 62”’ 
#2700 
$9.80 
—Smith & Hawken 
Hori hori 
—Smith & Hawken 
@ 
A Guide to Entrance Hole Sizes: 
Use the guide below to select the right opening size for 
the bird species you want to attract: 
1°” — House Wren (a highly desirable species). 
1%’ — Chickadee, Carolina Wren, Bewick’s Wren, 
Tufted Titmouse, Nuthatch, Downy Woodpecker. 
1¥%2"’ — Tree Swallow, Bluebird. 
2’’ — House Finch, Starling, larger Woodpeckers. 
2%2'’ — Purple Martin, Crested Flycatcher, Flicker. 
EISENSTEIN 
IIIA SND SEI DEST 
RENO GAS TI a 
NSE FS IO 
ETS NEAREST RECT 
eThe Necessary Catalogue of Biological Farm and Garden 
Supplies provides access to a wide range of tools, books, 
and supplies for biological or organic agriculture. Included 
are pest and disease controls, foliar nutrients, seed and 
composting inoculants, and soil amendments. 
Catalog $2 from Necessary Trading Company, 640 Main 
Street, New Castle, VA 24127. 
