A CROSS VISE permits accurate location of work, left-right and front-rear, making it easy to 
put holes where you want them. Smooth feed allows light milling operations such as slotting. 
Even this crude model greatly enhances the usefulness of any drill press. (Bowden Wholesale, 
less than $30.) 
VISE-GRIPS come in many shapes and > 
sizes, all with the squeeze force adjustable 
between delicate and prodigious. They 
lock, increasing the number of hands you 
have for other work. Buy only the genuine 
Vise-Grip brand — fakes fail fast. (U.S. 
<4 AUTO PUNCH — Instead of whacking 
this punch with a hammer, you merely press 
it. The smite is adjustable so you won't 
punch holes in thin work. (U.S. General.) 
WHITNEY PUNCH — This powerful © 
punch makes neat holes in sheet metal, 
plastic, leather, or anything else punchable. 
We use it-a lot making holes for pop rivets. 
You often see fakes of these. They work 
OK but probably won't last as long as the 
real thing. (U.S. General.) 
<< POP RIVETS are great 
for attaching thin stuff to 
thin stuff. They work on 
car bodies, leather, plastic, 
and Masonite and are in- 
stalled from one side — 
no need to have access to 
the back. Buy a rivet gun 
with longish handles; 
you'll need the leverage 
unless you're Godzilla. 
(Sears #9HT74747 is 
particularly handy.) 
& Installed from one side 
rather like a pop rivet, 
these THREADED INSERTS 
(sometimes called Rivnuts) 
put real bolt threads in 
sheet metal or other thin 
material — sort of a built- 
in nut. We've put eight of 
them in the roof of our car 
to make an extraordinarily 
secure roof rack that can 
still be removed easily. 
Very handy in boat work 
and metal cabinetry such 
as computers and refrig- 
erators. (U.S. General.) 
tootsox 153 
<4 DELTA RADIAL DRILL PRESS is the most versatile available 
at a home shop price. The head tilts at any angle, and the 
arm not only rotates 360° around the vertical post, it also 
slides in and out. This permits drilling objects too big for the 
drill table — even things sitting on the floor. Though not 
rigid enough for machine shop use, it does just fine for 
anything less demanding. Ours has served flawlessly for 20 
years. (See Yellow Pages under ‘’Tools — Electric.’” May 
also be called Rockwell.) 
General.) 
