2 LANES 
RING ROAD 
4 LANES MAJOR 
ARTERJAL ROAD 
TRANSPORTATION 
CENTER 
a 
WALKING 
aed 
PATHS 
electric 
2.5 ACRES 
PARKING 
i op 
sae 
MN PARKING 
\ > 
\ 
SSS 
~ 
ws 
we 
SAS 
ae 
* 
200.000 
sq ft 
Sustainable Communities 
“Sustainability implies that the use of energy and mater- 
ials in an urban area be in balance with what the region 
can supply continuously through natural processes such 
as photosynthesis, biological decomposition and the 
biochemical processes that support life. The immediate 
Livable Cities 
All over the U.S.A., deteriorating neighborhoods and 
even entire towns are being revitalized. And not neces- 
sarily by displacing the people living there either. How is 
this being done? By people getting together! Lots of suc- 
cessful war stories and the winning tactics and strategies 
are presented here with a voice in keeping with the sub- 
ject: positive, tough, competent, and experienced. Good 
hopeful reading for people who want to get control of 
their neighborhood's destiny. This is all easily read, too 
— a pleasure! 
—JB 
Community activists should also beware of constructive 
alternatives. Sometimes, the enemy, seeing he is about to 
be defeated, tries to turn the tables on you and says, 
“All right, if you’re so smart, tell us what to do.”’ Be 
careful how you handle this situation. It’s not your role 
Livable Streets 
We all know that ‘‘we gotta do something about all these 
cars,’’ but what’s to be done? This book is divided into 
two parts: the first is an exhaustive (so to speak) study of 
the effects of traffic on the denizens of 21 San Francisco 
streets; part two chronicles the history of an attempt to 
change traffic patterns in Berkeley for the better. That po- 
litically tumultuous move is compared to a similar effort 
in England. Theory meets reality in both cases. Interesting, 
instructive, and fortunately easy to read. Highly recom- 
mended for car-haters. 
—JB 
What happens on the street where there is little or no 
traffic was studied by Zerner in a number of cul-de-sacs 
in San Francisco. Such is the power of the automobile on 
our thinking that these streets are called ‘‘dead end’’ 
streets, when of all the streets in the city they are the 
most alive with children. They come from all over the 
neighborhood to those rare, protected places. In fact, 
they are so rare that a street like Shotwell becomes 
overloaded with children. 
e See Architecture Without Architects (p. 115) 
and A Pattern Language (p. 117). 
See also “Alternative Technology”’ (pp. 89-90). 
This seminal study remains one of the most accurately 
honest looks at the wonders and terrors of city living. 
The Death and Life of Great American Cities: Jane Jacobs, 
1961; 458 pp. $4.95 ($5.95 postpaid) from Random House/ 
Order Dept., 400 Hahn Road, Westminster, MD 21157 (or 
Whole Earth Access). 
LIVEABLE CITIES 
implications of this principle are a vastly reduced energy 
budget for cities, and a smaller, more compact urban 
pattern interspersed with productive areas to collect 
energy, grow crops for food, fiber and energy, and 
recycle wastes.” 
How this concept is to be implemented is what this book is 
about. It isn’t just talk; there are case studies and lots of 
eminently practical ideas here, complete with the eco- 
nomics. The call to action is backed philosophically by 
seven essays from authors such as Paul Hawken and John 
Todd. Solid and timely, the book is a recipe for what we 
can and probably must do. 
—JB 
v 
The Village Center proposal is a direct descendant of the 
“neighborhood school planning’’ dogma which dominated 
surburban planning a generation ago. Then, the key 
concept was to locate neighborhoods around a half mile 
walking radius of the elementary school. Today, educa- 
tion and other key consumer services may form the core 
for new pedestrian oriented energy efficient communities. 
to tell the sanitation department how to pick up the gar- 
bage; all you care about is that they pick it up regularly. 
Don’t fall into the trap of trying to do the enemy’s job. 
Let the enemy solve his own problems. Concentrate in- 
stead on making sure he meets your demands. 
The only foolproof way to prevent families from being 
displaced is to have them own their homes, either indi- 
vidually or through a neighborhood corporation. There 
are a number of ways this can be done. All the methods 
described previously in this book to help families obtain 
low-cost home improvement loans and mortgages — 
rehabilitation financing schemes, revolving loan funds, 
homesteading programs, sweat equity, low-down-pay- 
ment mortgages, rebate programs, and so on — serve 
to keep the original residents in their homes at prices 
they can afford. 
Before and after drawings showing the transformation of a 
conventional street into a woonerf [“‘residential yard,”’ 
where traffic rules afford the pedestrian priority]. 
COMMUNITY 
113 
Sustainable 
Communities 
Sim Van der Ryn 
and Peter Calthorpe 
1986; 238 pp. 
$25 
($29.50 postpaid) from: 
Sierra Club Bookstore 
730 Polk Street 
San Francisco, CA 94109 
or Whole Earth Access 
Livable Cities 
Robert Cassidy 
1980; 340 pp. 
$8.95 
($10.95 postpaid) from: 
Henry Holt & Co. 
521 5th Avenue, 12th floor 
New York, NY 10175 
or Whole Earth Access 
Livable Streets 
Donald Appleyard 
1981; 364 pp. 
$14.95 
($16.45 postpaid) from: 
University of 
California Press 
2120 Berkeley Way 
Berkeley, CA 94720 
or Whole Earth Access 
