COMMUNITY 
98 
Outrageous Acts 
and Everyday 
Rebellions 
Gloria Steinem 
1985; 420 pp. 
$4.50 
($5.50 postpaid) from: 
New American Library 
120 Woodbine Street 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621 
or Whole Earth Access 
Sisterhood 
Is Global 
Robin Morgan, Editor 
1984; 838 pp. 
$12.95 
postpaid from: 
Doubleday and Company 
Direct Mail Order 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth Access 
Connexions 
Connexions Collective, 
Editors. 
$12/year 
(4 issues) from: 
Connexions 
4228 Telegraph Avenue 
Oakland, CA 94609 
WOMEN’S POLITICS 
EMINISM QUESTIONS THE USE of difference to legitimate hierarchy, an arrangement that 
Starhawk terms “power over.” The idea that there’s no justification for using woman as “the 
nigger of the world” (Yoko Ono) remains fundamental to the whole cause. For most of the 
women (and some of the men) who absorb that truth, feminism is a life-changing, irreversible 
experience: hard to practice day to day, harder not to. 
So feminism is a way of being that’s still uphill, not quite a campaign that can be won. Thus it should come 
as no surprise that the founding mothers of contemporary feminism are still hard at it, pushing the under- 
standing forward. Three of them — Steinem, Friedan, and Morgan — have lately produced books. Although 
their books are by no means of a mind, taken together they provide a good introduction to mature main- 
stream feminist thought. The mainstream is plenty radical as far as it goes, and it goes to the boundary 
of the human species. 
But for profounder consciousness alteration, something that takes in the whole planet, and the problem 
of hierarchy itself, read Starhawk. 
““What’s new in feminism,” I hope, will be the imminent demise of the monkey-see, monkey-do Kirkpatrick/ 
Thatcher/Gandhi syndrome. Watching what becomes of women who make it in the patriarchy could finally 
persuade us that all power really does corrupt. 
Heresies and other ephemera are recommended as charts and visits to emergent feminist culture, the islands 
for us to swim to. It could be a new world, and certainly a better refuge. And in spite of all the difficulty, 
this much is certain: there’s no turning the clock back and there'll be no end of trying. 
—Stephanie Mills 
EB SBS ARSE 2S EC ESE ITEP TE GES EEE EE LIB SECIS DID I 
SSIES ROIS LASTS LE SLID ESL ELLIS LTE EET LED PLT ELIE DELETED LED 
EE SOLE LIE LE LELEELELDLLLLLELLLE L LOEL 
Outrageous Acts 
and Everyday Rebellions 
This collection, which is Steinem’s first book — she’s been 
too busy as an organizer and journalist for the last twenty 
years to write one before now — is a better place than 
most to begin to learn what feminism is today. 
Gloria Steinem may be one of the finer human beings 
around, a noble exponent of an epochal cause. Start with 
her courage: in surviving, without self-pity, an arduous 
childhood (see “‘Ruth’s Song’), and the slings and arrows 
aimed at her as America’s Best-Known Feminist (‘’Intro- 
duction’’). Add to that her unyielding insistence on justice 
for all, her constant awareness of the contributions and 
concerns of women and men of color, and her attention 
to the economic inequity between the dominant minority 
and the diverse majority. Then there’s her intelligence and 
discernment (evident in ‘‘Erotica vs. Pornography”’); a 
generous compassion (which notes the tender, bitter com- 
monalities among women as different as Alice Walker, 
Pat Nixon, and Linda Lovelace); and a devastating wit 
(“If Men Could Menstruate’’), and you’ve got yourself 
a true champion, one who humbly disavows any ex- 
ceptionality. 
Isn‘t that just like a woman? Read her. 
—Stephanie Mills 
Men who want children must at least find women willing 
to bear them. That seems little enough to ask. And govern- 
ments that want increased rates of population growth 
must resort to such humane measures as lowering infant 
mortality rates, improving health care during pregnancy, 
distributing the work of child rearing through child care 
Connexions 
A quarterly magazine covering the same unwieldy beat 
as Sisterhood is Global, Connexions gathers reports from 
women around the world on one theme (e.g. Media: Get- 
ting to Women or Women and Militarism) for each issue. 
The diverse voices and concerns of women from both 
industrial and nonindustrial countries convey the real 
challenge of an international women’s movement — 
creating not just common theory, but understanding that 
spans continents. The best place to begin without having 
to buy a plane ticket. 
—Jeanne Carstensen 
and equal parenthood, and lengthening the productive 
lives of older people. 
Obviously, this ultimate bargaining power on the part 
of women is exactly what male supremacists fear most. 
That’s why their authoritarian impulse is so clearly 
against any sexuality not directed toward family-style 
procreation (that is, against extramarital sex, homo- 
sexuality and lesbianism, as well as contraception and 
abortion). This understanding helped feminists to under- 
stand why the adversaries of such apparently contradictory 
concerns as contraception and homosexuality are almost 
always the same. It also helped us to stand up publicly 
on the side of any consenting, freely chosen sexuality 
as a rightful form of human expression. 
Sisterhood is Global 
This book is almost overpowering. A formidable (838 pp.) 
anthology cum almanac, it presents articles on the condi- 
tions of women’s lives and their movements as understood 
by contributors from seventy different countries. The con- 
tributors employ a variety of genres — from rather dry 
sociological prose, to colloquial accounts of organizing 
experiences, to impassioned pleas for support of revolu- 
tionary movements, to folktales, to bitterly funny political 
nonsatire. 
All these are prefaced by entries sketching the demography, 
government, economy, “‘gynography,”’ “‘herstory,’’ and 
mythography of the countries represented. What emerges 
is a picture of ubiquitous injustice being met by wide- 
spread awakening and activism. Robin Morgan’s powerful 
introduction brilliantly focuses on the implications of global 
feminism, a vision of startling possibility. 
—Stephanie Mills 
How many women know it is now possible for a women’s 
group or an individual woman to register a human rights 
violation complaint (which can include battery, rape, job 
discrimination, deleterious ‘‘cultural’’ practices, etc.) di- 
rectly by confidential or standard letter to the Secretariat 
of the Commission on the Status of Women (in care of the 
Women’s Unit, United Nations Center, Vienna, Austria) — 
and that every complaint requires a formal investigation 
by the Commission, requiring in turn a response from 
the national government involved? 
We must — and can — demystify the channels to power, 
in order to travel them. 
