Don’t Shoot the Dog! 
There are two kinds of training. One is the sort | used to 
do for the infantry — intense imparting of information and 
skills. An activity far worthier and more interesting than 
it’s given credit for. But even worthier (and more un- 
credited) than that is the second kind of training — the 
shaping of behavior. This new book looks like the very 
best on the subject — a full-scale mind-changer. 
It is customary to apologize whenever saying something 
favorable about behavior modification and the insights of 
B.F. Skinner. | now hasten to fail to do that. We all strive 
to modify the behavior of everyone around us (including 
ourselves) all the time, usually with monumental ineptitude. 
Learning to do it well is a service to all. Now that both | 
and my wife have read Karen Pryor’s book we’re busily 
training each other, some of it overt, some covert. 
In the course of becoming a renowned dolphin trainer 
Karen Pryor learned that positive reinforcement (the only 
kind useable with dolphins, who can’t be reached with 
leashes, bridles, fists, or yells) is even more potent than 
prior scientific work had suggested. A daughter of novelist 
Philip Wylie, she is also a fine writer. 
© 
—Stewart Brand 
How to Get Control 
of Your Time and Your Life 
Almost a parody of the self-help genre, this glib book 
nevertheless can shake your bad time-management 
habits and start better ones. I’ve used it and wasn’t sorry. 
Last time | saw author Alan Lakein he was headed for an 
indefinite vacation at Big Sur — proving something, | 
would say. 
—Stewart Brand 
@ 
The 80/20 rule suggets that in a list of ten items, doing 
two of them will yield most (80 percent) of the value. 
Find these two, label them A, get them done. Leave most 
of the other eight undone, because the value you'll get 
The Relaxation & 
Stress Reduction Workbook 
Stress, a universal fact of existence, differs in degree and 
kind from one person to another. The three basic sources 
of stress — your environment, your body, your thoughts 
— require different responses. This book offers a wealth of 
tools for reducing stress and increasing relaxation. It’s 
mainly instruction with a minimum of theory. An excellent 
resource for creating a relaxation program that suits you. 
—Corinne Hawkins 
e 
Insight: It is important to recognize that there are three 
levels of insight necessary to change: 
1. Knowledge that you have a problem, and awareness 
of some of the events that may have caused the 
problem. 
2. Seeing clearly that the irrational ideas which you ac- 
quired early in life are creating the emotional climate 
¢ The way you live can kill you before your time, but it’s not 
too late to change. Here’s how. 
Treating Type A Behavior — And Your Heart: Meyer Friedman 
and Diane Ulmer, 1984; 308 pp. $3.95 ($4.95 postpaid) 
from Random House/Order Dept., 400 Hahn Road, West- 
minster, MD 21157. 
SELF-MANAGEMENT 
There are eight methods of getting rid of a behavior. 
Only eight. The eight methods are: 
¢ Method 1: ‘’Shoot the animal.’’ (This definitely works. 
You will never have to deal with that particular be- 
havior in that particular subject again.) 
¢ Method 2: Punishment. (Everybody’s favorite, in spite 
of the fact that it almost never really works.) 
e Method 3: Negative reinforcement. 
e Method 4: Extinction; letting the behavior go away 
by itself. 
¢ Method 5: Train an incompatible behavior. (This 
method is especially useful for athletes and pet owners.) 
e Method 6: Put the behavior on cue. (Then you never 
give the cue. This is the porpoise trainer’s most elegant 
method of getting rid of unwanted behavior.) 
e Method 7: ‘’Shape the absence;’’ reinforce anything 
and everything that is not the undesired behavior. (A 
kindly way to turn disagreeable relatives into agree- 
able relatives.) 
¢ Method 8: Change the motivation. (This is the fun- 
damental and most kindly method of all.) 
from them will be significantly less than that of the two 
highest-value items. 
These examples, drawn from everyday life, should 
enable you to feel more comfortable about concen- 
trating on high-value tasks, even at the cost of ignoring 
many lower-value tasks: 
¢ 80 percent of sales come from 20 percent of customers 
¢ 80 percent of production is in 20 percent of the pro- 
duct line 
¢ 80 percent of sick leave is taken by 20 percent of 
employees 
e 80 percent of file usage is in 20 percent of files 
¢ 80 percent of dinners repeat 20 percent of recipes 
you live in now, and that consciously or unconsciously 
you work fairly hard to perpetuate them. 
3. The strong belief that after discovering these two 
insights, you will still find no way of eliminating the prob- 
lem other than steadily, persistently and vigorously 
working to change your irrational ideas. 
Without a commitment to this last insight, it will be very 
difficult to alter your habitual emotional responses. 
. 
. 
. 
Breathing Awareness 
1. Lie down on a rug or blanket on the floor in a ‘dead 
body’’ pose — your legs straight, slightly apart, your 
toes pointed comfortably outwards, your arms at your 
sides, not touching your body, your palms up, and your 
eyes closed. 
2. Bring your attention to your breathing, and place your 
hand on the spot that seems to rise and fall the most as 
you inhale and exhale. Note that if this spot is in your 
chest, you are not making good use of the lower part of 
your lungs. People who are nervous tend to breathe 
many short, shallow breaths in their upper chest. . 
. 
. 
HEALTH 225 
Don’t Shoot 
the Dog! 
Karen Pryor 
1984; 187 pp. 
$3.95 
($5.45 postpaid) from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, IL 60016 
or Whole Earth Access 
How to Get 
Control of Your 
Time and Your Life 
Alan Lakein 
1973; 160 pp. 
$2.95 
($3.95 postpaid) from: 
New American Library 
120 Woodbine Street 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Relaxation & 
Stress Reduction 
Workbook 
Matthew McKay, Martha 
Davis, Elizabeth Robbins 
1982 (2nd ed.); 208 pp. 
$12.50 
($13.75 postpaid) from: 
New Harbinger 
Publications 
2200 Adeline, Suite 305 
Oakland, CA 94607 
or Whole Earth Access 
