WHOLE SYSTEMS 
BATESON 
22 
REGORY BATESON IS RESPONSIBLE for a number of formal discoveries, most notably the “Double Bind” theory of 
schizophrenia. As an anthropologist he did pioneer work in New Guinea and (with Margaret Mead) in Bali. He participated 
in the Macy Foundation meetings that founded the science‘of cybernetics but kept a healthy distance from computers. He 
wandered thornily in and out of various disciplines — biology, ethnology, linguistics, epistomology, psychotherapy — 
and left each of them altered with his passage. 
Steps to an Ecology of Mind chronicles that journey. It is a collection of all his major papers, 1935-1971. In recommending the book 
I’ve learned to suggest that it be read backwards. Read the broad analyses of mind and ecology at the end of the book and then work 
back to see where the premises come from. 
Bateson has informed everything I’ve attempted since I read Steps in 1972. Through him I became convinced that much more of whole 
systems could be understood than I had thought, and that much more existed wholesomely beyond understanding than I thought — 
that mysticism, mood, ignorance and paradox could be rigorous, for instance, and that the most potent tool for grasping these essences 
— these influence nets — is cybernetics. 
Mind and Nature: A Necessary Unity addresses the hidden, though unoccult, dynamics of life — the misapprehension of which threatens 
to unhorse our civilization. Bateson doesn’t have all the answers, he just has better questions — elegant, mature, embarrassing ques- 
tions that tweak the quick of things. 
One of the themes that emerges is the near identity between the process of evolving and the process of learning, and the ongoing re- 
sponsibility they have for each other which includes our responsibility, which we have shirked. We shirked it through ignorance. Mind 
and Nature dispels that. 
Bateson’s previous writing — Naven; Communications: The Social Matrix of Psychiatry; Balinese Character and Steps to an Ecology 
of Mind — has been addressed to various audiences of specialists. Mind in Nature is addressed to a general readership. It is new thought 
in an old virtue — the use of fine original writing to express ideas whose excellence is embedded in the clarity of their expression. 
Stong medicine. 
Steps to an 
Ecology of Mind 
Gregory Bateson 
1972; 541 pp. 
$4.95 
($5.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
Order Dept. 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
Mind and Nature 
Gregory Bateson 
1979; 259 pp. 
$4.95 
($6.45 postpaid) from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, IL 60016 
or Whole Earth Access 
It is a nontrivial matter that we are almost always 
unaware of trends in our changes of state. There is a 
quasi-scientific fable that if you can get a frog to sit 
quietly in a saucepan of cold water, and if you then raise 
the temperature of the water very slowly and smoothly 
so that there is no moment marked to be the moment at 
which the frog should jump, he will never jump. He will 
get boiled. Is the human species changing its own en- 
vironment with slowly increasing pollution and rotting its 
mind with slowly deteriorating religion and education 
in such a saucepan? 
Human sense organs can receive only news of difference, 
and the differences must be coded into events in time 
(i.e. into changes) in order to be perceptible. Ordinary 
static differences that remain constant for more than a 
few seconds become perceptible only by scanning. 
Ross Ashby long ago pointed out that no system (neither 
computer nor organism) can produce anything new 
unless the system contains some source of the random. 
In the computer, this will be a random-number generator 
which will ensure that the “‘seeking,’”’ trial-and-error 
moves of the machine will ultimately cover all the 
possibilities of the set to be explored. 
| do not believe that the original purpose of the rain 
dance was to make “‘it’’ rain. | suspect that that is a 
degenerate misunderstanding of a much more profound 
religious need: to affirm membership in what we may 
call the ecological tautology, the eternal verities of life 
and environment. There’s always a tendency — almost a 
need — to vulgarize religion, to turn it into entertain- 
ment or politics or magic or ‘‘power.”’ 
—Mind and Nature 
No organism can afford to be conscious of matters with 
which it could deal at unconscious levels. 
—Steps to an Ecology of Mind 
@ 
Mere purposive rationality unaided by such phenomena 
—Stewart Brand 
as art, religion, dream, and the like, is necessarily 
pathogenic and destructive of life; its virulence springs 
specifically from the circumstance that life depends upon 
interlocking circuits of contingency, while consciousness 
can only see such short arcs as human purpose may direct. 
When you narrow down your epistemology and act on 
the premise ‘‘what interests me is me, or my organiza- 
tion, or my species,’” you chop off consideration of other 
loops of the loop structure. You decide that you want to 
get rid of the by-products of human life and that Lake 
Erie will be a good place to put them. You forget that 
the eco-mental system called Lake Erie is part of your 
wider eco-mental system — and that if Lake Erie is driven 
insane, its insanity is incorporated in the larger system 
of your thought and experience. 
My father, the geneticist William Bateson, used to read 
us passages of the Bible at breakfast — lest we grow up 
to be empty-headed atheists. 
In no system which shows mental characteristics can 
any part have unilateral control over the whole. In other 
words, the mental characteristics of the system are im- 
manent, not in some part, but in the system as a whole. 
—Steps to an Ecology of Mind 
It seems to puzzle psychologists that the exploring ten- 
dencies of a rat cannot be simply extinguished by having 
the rat encounter boxes containing small electric shocks. 
A little empathy will show that from the rat’s point of 
view, it is not desirable that he learn the general lesson. 
His experience of a shock upon putting his nose into a 
box indicates to him that he did well to put his nose into 
that box in order to gain the information that it contained 
a shock. In fact, the “‘purpose’’ of exploration is, not to 
discover whether exploration is a good thing, but to dis- 
cover information about the explored. The larger case is 
of a totally different nature from that of the particular. 
—Mind and Nature 
