HEALTH 
236 
Stretching the perineum 7 
with olive oil. 
__ 
a 
A nine-pound 
baby born 
without tearing. 
Special Delivery 
Rahima Baldwin 
1979; 169 pp. 
$10.95 
($11.95 postpaid) from: 
Celestial Arts 
P. O. Box 7327 
Berkeley, CA 94707 
or Whole Earth Access 
A Good Birth, 
A Safe Birth 
Diana Korte 
and Roberta Scaer 
1984; 336 pp. 
$7.95 
($9.45 postpaid) from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, IL 60016 
or Whole Earth Access 
CHILDBIRTH 
Special Delivery 
Special Delivery affirms that birth is normal and that all 
births are different. It covers homebirth, hospital birth, 
and birth center birth, with information on the physical, 
emotional, and spiritual elements of birth; tools for han- 
dling labor, nutrition, and exercises; preparation for birth 
and labor; emergencies and complications; care of the 
newborn; and post-delivery care of the mother. This is an 
easy to read book, full of pictures, illustrations, and per- 
sonal stories balanced by the advice and suggestions of 
the author who is a midwife, childbirth educator, mother, 
teacher, and founder and head of the national organiza- 
tion Informed Birth and Parenting. 
—Peggy O’Mara McMahon 
e@ 
There are several things that your birth attendants can 
do to help you deliver without tearing. One is to apply 
hot compresses to your lower belly, vulva and perineum 
during the early part of second stage to keep the tissues 
supple and aid relaxation. Then once the head starts to 
be visible at the vaginal opening, your attendant or hus- 
band should begin to massage the perineum (the area 
between the vagina and anus) in between contractions. 
You can also massage the area yourself, both during 
pregnancy and during labor. 
Breech birth: keep- 
ing head flexed, if 
necessary, by in- 
serting a finger in 
the baby’s mouth. 
A Early labor: 2 
cm dilation; 80 
percent effaced. 
Labor and Delivery. 
Transition: 8 cm & 
dilated; the mother 
should be at about a 45-degree 
angle; the hardest part of labor, but 
the shortest. 
Descent: dilation is complete and > 
the baby’s head passes through the 
cervix and down the birth canal; the 
waters have usually broken; the head 
turns down. 
< Continued descent: with each 
contraction, the baby’s head tra- 
vels further down the birth canal; 
the rectum becomes compressed, 
causing strong pushing urges. 
Crowning: as the 
head crowns at the 
opening, the mother 
should stop pushing 
to prevent tearing of 
the perineum, which covers the baby’s 
face as it ‘sweeps the perineum.”’ 
Restitution: the head turns back toward the side and A 
then the shoulders are born one at a time and the body 
slides out. 
The Tentative Pregnancy 
Dramatic advances in medical technology now allow doc- 
tors to detect birth defects in a child before it is born. 
What effect does this have on pregnant women? This dif- 
ficult subject is tackled by The Tentative Pregnancy. This 
is not an insensitive consumer guide. It is a deeply caring 
look at the powerful emotions and ethics of ““amniocen- 
tesis,“’ a test that determines whether an unborn baby is 
deformed. Until now the feelings of the expectant mother 
have been rarely heard on this subject. Anyone consider- 
ing amniocentesis will want to hear what over 120 women 
said and felt about the procedure. The lessons of this 
book will become even more important as amniocentesis 
and other fetal tests become routine. 
_—Janna Katz 
e@ 
New research is beginning to indicate that it is possible 
to discover chromosomal abnormalities in placental 
material which are not to be found in the fetus: That is, 
the cells of the placenta may develop with missing or 
with extra chromosomes while the fetus itself has normal 
chromosomes. Thus some women will abort a normal 
fetus because of an abnormal placenta. 
The Tentative 
Pregnancy 
Barbara Katz Rothman 
1986; 274 pp. 
$6.95 
($7.95 postpaid) from: 
Viking Penguin Books 
299 Murray Hill Pkwy. 
East Rutherford, NJ 07073 
or Whole Earth Access 
A Good Birth, A Safe Birth 
A Good Birth, A Safe Birth assumes that pregnant 
women must know their options before they can deter- 
mine their birthing preferences; this book tells you your 
options by analyzing scientific data supporting the safety 
and normalcy of birth in various settings. 
Based on interviews with 2000 women and the best of the 
childbirth books of the last few years, it’s a consumer’s 
guide for finding “Dr. Right,’’ for avoiding unnecessary 
cesareans, for evaluating high-tech interventions, for 
choosing a pediatrician, for successfully breastfeeding, 
and for accepting the roller coaster emotions of new 
motherhood. Also included is an extensive list of resources 
and an impressive bibliography. 
—Peggy O’Mara McMahon 
One way of evaluating where to have your baby is to 
look at the likelihood of intervention for each place of 
birth. The fewer interventions there are the less risk there 
is to mother and baby. With fewer interventions there 
will be fewer problems as a result of intervention, fewer 
c-sections, and, we believe, a safer birth for the normal 
mother and baby. . 
. 
. 
With less intervention, mother, baby, and father are 
more likely to have a strong attachment to each other, 
and this fragile new family will have the mutual loving 
start they need. The pleasure principle, the full expres- 
sion of a woman’s sensuality in birth, operates best with 
the least intervention. And finally, with less intervention, 
a woman feels more that she has ‘‘given birth’’ rather 
than that she has been ‘‘delivered.’” Her enhanced self- 
esteem from this achievement helps the woman in her 
new role as a mother. 
