Standing by Words 
| cannot imagine a better English teacher than farmer, 
essayist, poet, novelist Wendell Berry. His writing and 
his thinking are hard liquor, the kind that makes you go 
“‘whooh!”’ with savor and respect. His subject this time is 
language, and the model is not far off. His writing (and 
speaking, if you get the chance to hear it) is his own 
best example. 
More even than his works on agriculture (The Unsettling 
of America [see p. 61], efc.), this book of essays goes to 
the center of a wide and terrible malaise that is obscured 
from our view by its very size. When the land weakens, 
when the use of language weakens, nothing else can be 
truly strong. 
Berry wrote elsewhere once, “‘I stand for what | stand 
on.”’ This book is about that kind of precision. 
—Stewart Brand 
e@ 
Two epidemic illnesses of our time — upon both of which 
virtual industries of cures have been founded — are the 
Etc. 
General Semantics is the art and science of thinking 
about symbols instead of swallowing them whole and 
unexamined. Efe. is the quarterly magazine put out by 
the International Society for General Semantics, and it 
prints smart, scholarly articles about the dangers of loose 
thinking and fuzzy talk. It’s a good antidote for face 
value. Your subscription also gets you a monthly collec- 
tion of additions called Glimpse. 
—Anne Herbert 
e 
Clarity and precision are what one tries to strive for in 
achieving semantic health. In other words, clarity and 
precision foster communication. But oddly, perhaps even 
paradoxically, it is ambiguity that fosters communication 
‘COMMUNICATIONS 
LANGUAGE 
disintegration of communities and the disintegration of 
persons. That these two are related (that private loneli- 
ness, for instance, will necessarily accompany public 
confusion) is clear enough. And | take for granted that 
most people have explored in themselves and their sur- 
roundings some of the intricacies of the practical causes 
and effects; most of us, for example, have understood 
that the results are usually bad when people act in social 
or moral isolation, and also when, because of such 
isolation, they fail to act. 
e 
One of the uses of poetry is to reveal and articulate and 
make and preserve the necessary connections between 
the domestic and the wild. It is one of the ways we may, 
with hope of return, get out of our minds (our own and 
other people’s) into the world of creatures, forms, and 
powers that we did not make. Access to that world is 
sanity. To be trapped in one’s own mind is insanity. To be 
trapped in another person’s mind — by political or 
technological tyranny — is imprisonment. 
in aesthetic experience. To the extent that a work of art is 
unambiguous, precise, and as clear in its meaning as 
one could hope for, to that extent, it is not art at all. 
The greatest changes involve not a transformation of the 
form of language use but a diminishing of the very role 
that language itself plays within the culture. With radio 
and other audio media dealing primarily in music, and 
visual media using images, music, and sound effects, at 
the expense of even spoken language, a great part of 
our public discourse is being conducted in symbolic 
forms which are less amenable to conscious reasoning 
and whose semantics have barely begun to be studied. 
Maledicta 
The last taboos in our culture — obscenity, insults, and 
completely tasteless ethnic and racial slurs — are boldly 
investigated by these forbidden-word connoisseurs, bask- 
ing in the thrill of the verboten. If the language in this 
journal was any filthier you would have to scrub it out 
with Comet. For you halfwit gutter throats with a deficient 
vocabulary, we’re not only talking about four-letter words. 
Recent issues of Maledicta compare a list of obscenities 
printed or left out in 20 different dictionaries, then go 
on to explore all the euphemisms for farting, report on 
colortul verbal abuse by the rich and famous, track down 
bathroom graffiti, dirty jokes, and kakologia, categorize 
high school sex slang, and so on. Much of it is legitimate 
academic studies, although always done tongue-in-toilet. 
—Kevin Kelly 
Little Jimmy, four years old, was bugging his mother. So 
she told him to go across the street to watch the con- 
struction workers and learn something. After two hours 
he came back inside, and mother asked him what he 
had learned. 
“Well, first you take a goddamn door and you try to fit 
it into the fucking doorway. But if the son-of-a-bitch 
doesn’t fit, you have to take the cocksucker down again. 
Then you take a cunt-hair off on both sides and put the 
motherfucker back up again.”’ 
Jimmy’s mother was shocked by his language. ‘’You just 
wait till your father comes home! | want you to repeat 
that for your father!’’ 
When Jimmy’s dad came home, mother told him to ask 
Jimmy what he had learned across the street. 
Jimmy told dad the whole story. His dad was furious and 
told him, ‘Son, go outside and get me a switch!’ 
“Fuck you!”’ replied Jimmy. ‘’That’s the fucking elec- 
trician’s job!”’ 
@ 
Who knocked off more Indians than John Wayne? 
— Union Carbide. 
What's Union Carbide’s newest product? 
— Dot remover. 
“I assume you don’t want to put a wreath 
on the front door either.” 
299 
Standing by 
Words 
Wendell Berry 
1983; 213 pp. 
$10.50 
($12 postpaid) from: 
North Point Press 
850 Talbot Avenue 
Berkeley, CA 94706 
or Whole Earth Access 
Etc. 
Russell Joyner, Editor 
S 25 /year 
(4 issues, includes 
membership) from: 
International Society for 
General Semantics 
P. O. Box 2469 
San Francisco, CA 94126 
Maledicta 
Reinhold Aman, Editor 
$19 (annual) from: 
Maledicta Press 
331 South Greenfield Ave. 
Waukesha, WI 53186 
THANK YOU 
FOR NOT 
FARTING 
A Maledicta Card 
