NOMADICS 
SCUBA 
284 
Open Water Sport 
Diver Manual 
Jeppesen 
1984; 289 pp. 
$9.78 postpaid from: 
Jeppesen Sanderson 
55 Inverness Drive East 
Englewood, CO 80112 
or Whole Earth Access 
Undercurrent 
Ben Davison, Editor 
$2 8/year 
(11 issues) from: 
Undercurrent 
Atcom Bldg. 
2312 Broadway 
New York, NY 10024-4397 
DAN 
Membership $1 S/year 
(Includes Underwater 
Diving Accident Manual, 
Alert Diver newsletter, and 
membership card and tank 
decals showing DAN 
emergency phone 
number) from: 
DAN 
P. O. Box 3823 
Duke University 
Medical Center 
Durham, NC 27710 
T FIRST GLANCE, a scuba diver must seem like some kind of maso- 
chist: swathed in neoprene; harnessed to a cylinder of compressed 
gases; festooned with hoses, regulators & gauges; 20-some-odd pounds 
of lead strapped around the waist, like middle-age spread gone wild. 
Dip below the surface of the water, though, and that encumbrance melts into 
the background. Diving is as close as most of us will ever come to the weight- 
lessness of space, in an environment as alien as can be found on this planet. 
People today are diving in just about any body of water that happens to be 
handy: from the warm tropics to the frigid north, in lakes, rivers, caverns, and 
quarries. All that’s necessary is reasonably good health and physical ability, 
completion of a course of instruction by one of the recognized certification 
agencies, and a collection of the above mentioned equipment. Although equip- 
ment can be easily rented, you’ll eventually want to buy your own. Get on the 
mailing lists of several dive shops in your area. Most offer reasonable sale prices, 
and you should be able to try out some of the gear in their pool before you buy. 
—David Burnor 
Open Water Sport Diver Manual 
Of the courses available, I’m most impressed with 
Jeppesen’s. It is currently taught by the YMCA, NAUI, 
SSI, PDIC, NASE, and many PADI instructors, and meets 
the requirements of all other diving certification agencies. 
They have a good manual that emphasizes the develop- 
ment of safe diving habits, a thorough understanding of 
diving principles, and a respect for the underwater en- 
vironment. They’re also on top of the latest research. Us- 
ing the findings from recent ultrasound bubble detection 
tests, they’ve revised their dive tables to show much more 
conservative no-decompression limits than the U.S. Navy 
tables in common use. 
—David Burnor 
After a dive like this, your ‘bottom time’’ is 30 minutes 
at 50 feet, even though you actually spend only 15 min- 
utes at 50 feet. Bottom time, in other words, refers to the 
total time of the dive from the beginning of the descent 
to the beginning of the direct ascent. The depth of the 
dive always refers to the deepest point of the dive, no 
matter how briefly you stay at that depth. 
Undercurrent 
There are a number of slick diving magazines available, 
but each month | look forward to a slim newsletter called 
Undercurrent. It’s like a Consumer Reports of the diving 
industry. With no paid ads, they’re not beholden to any- 
one. Like restaurant reviewers, their critics visit diving 
resorts anonymously — getting the same treatment that 
you will — and present a full report, warts and all. Un- 
biased equipment evaluations, practical consumer advice, 
and sound safety tips round out each issue. 
—David Burnor 
e 
Equipment 
Not only must all gear be in good working order, but 
the diver must also be familiar with the specific gear to 
be used. New or unfamiliar gear should be tried first in 
a swimming pool, not in open water. All scuba equip- 
ment should be overhauled or serviced by a certified 
scuba specialist at least once a year. Additionally, divers 
should understand the basic mechanical principles of 
the scuba equipment. 
Perhaps the most important area of responsibility is the 
physical and psychological well-being of the diver about 
to enter the water. To avoid excessive stress the diver 
should maintain physical fitness, overlearn skills through 
practice and repetition, know his physical limitations and 
practice buddymanship. 
It is important to note that even though the No-Decom- 
pression Limits Table indicates that you can dive as long 
as you wish at depths of 30 feet or less, it is best to avoid 
extreme exposures even at shallow depths and, as a 
general rule, to be more conservative than the table, 
especially if you fall into any of the categories listed. 
ee 
Za 
BOTTOM TIME BEGINS 
DAN 
Given good instruction and equipment, and a clear head, 
diving is a safe sport. However, there are certain dangers 
not found on dry land. Air embolism and decompression 
sickness are the most severe problems and immediate 
recompression treatment may be necessary to prevent 
serious, permanent injury. DAN, the Divers Alert Net- 
work, maintains a 24-hour emergency telephone line 
(919/684-8111) staffed by physicians trained in all aspects 
of diving medicine. They, and their network of regional 
coordinators, work with the injured diver and the physi- 
cian on the scene to insure the proper diagnosis and 
treatment of dive-related problems. Their Alert Diver 
newsletter, available to members, reports on the latest 
findings in diving medicine and safety. 
_—David Burnor 
Do not attempt in-water recompression! 
In-water recompression of the diver usually ends with 
the diver forced to the surface by cold or inadequate air 
supply. This causes incomplete treatment and further 
nitrogen uptake by the diver. If a victim has mild signs 
and symptoms of decompression sickness, the usual re- 
sult is a much more seriously injured diver. If the initial 
symptoms are serious, the result is usually disastrous. 
In-water recompression should never be attempted. 
—Underwater Diving Accident Manual 
