CRAFT 
170 
Country 
Blacksmithing 
Charles McRaven. 
1981; 191 pp. 
$9.95 
($11.45' postpaid) from: 
Harper & Row 
2350 Virginia Avenue 
Hagerstown, MD 21740 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Making 
of Tools 
Alexander G. Weygers 
1973; 93 pp. 
$11.95 
postpaid from: 
Simon and Schuster 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
or Whole Earth Access 
Lindsay’s 
Technical Books 
Catalog 
$1 from: 
Lindsay Publications, Inc. 
P.O. Box 12 
Bradley, IL 60915-0012 
Charcoal foundry. 
“‘Build a Precision 
Milling Machine!”’ 
BLACKSMITHING 
Country Blacksmithing 
Here’s a good how-to book by a good how-to writer. 
Charles McRaven is an accomplished blacksmith, and 
here he shows you all you need to know about the basics 
of blacksmithing; enough to get you started cheaply and 
working on your own. McRaven has built four smithies, 
each on separate homesteads he has set up by himself. 
With this experience to back him up, he shows in Country 
Blacksmithing how to make a forge from a brake drum 
and tools from scrap metal, and how to hammer hot iron 
into many useful things: nails, knives, hinges, hardware, 
household items, fireplace tools and fixtures, a trailer 
hitch, chains and hooks for logging. There’s a chapter on 
horseshoeing and one called “Income from Your Forge’’ 
with sound advice for smiths who wish to sell their wares 
as craftsmen. This may not be the be-all and end-all book 
of blacksmithing, but for teaching a skill which depends 
so much on just plain experience, it’s a helpful start, 
more helpful than most. 
—John Warde 
| have heard several veteran blacksmiths reply to the 
question of what exactly they do, in this way: 
“Well, you get a piece of iron hot, then you hit it with a 
hammer.’ And that’s what it’s all about. Iron and steel 
are malleable when red hot, and hammering lets the 
smith shape them by degrees to his purposes. 
< This drawknife was made 
of medium-carbon shaft 
steel, heated and quenched 
only. The relatively low 
carbon content kept it 
from becoming brittle and 
produced a tool of tough- 
ness with just this one-step 
process. 
If a reversed tip is desired 
on the loop handle, it’s put 
in last, then the loop is 
trued up. 
The Making of Tools 
Blacksmithing can be a lot more than making horseshoes 
and barn door hinges. Mr. Weygers’ beautiful book shows 
techniques of making your own tools by the clever use of 
scrap metal. His attitude is encouraging (and unusually 
nonchauvinistic for a blacksmith). He makes clear the 
many paths that open to a person who develops the skills 
heat flatten & bend over 
anvil or between vise jews 
of a blacksmith. His lucid drawings and obvious love of 
his work draw you in; you want to try it. The book itself is 
a model of how good books can get if properly nurtured. 
cut teeth on abrasive wheel 
before or after bending 
Lindsay’s Technical Books 
Arcane wouldn’t be too strong a word to describe the 
contents of this wide-view catalog. It’s well stocked with 
how-to-make and how-to-use books — mostly concerned 
with shop tools and procedures. Many of the books are 
old classics, and some are references to technologies long 
gone but still interesting, such as steam engines. There 
are also books on Nikola Tesla, embalming, perpetual 
motion, casting, and steam-powered airplanes. Every- 
thing shown is reviewed so you get some idea of what it 
is. Interesting, useful, and fun. 
—JB 
Building machine tools takes hours and hours, but building 
the charcoal foundry is far simpler, and loads of fun. You 
can make castings for any purpose. Anyone can build a 
furnace, and almost everyone will become hooked on 
melting metal once they try it. 
The ‘’Charcoal Foundry” is a small book with a big 
price tag, but it’s worth every penny, and then some. 
Every page is loaded with practical how-to useful advice. 
This 1983 revised edition contains many, many drawings 
and many excellent photographs that will show you step- 
by-step how to build a foundry. 
— 
Highest recommendation! Top rate! Get a copy. 52x82 
paperback, 80 pages 
Catno. 163 
$6.95 
EASE 
TY ELI IEE NDS DOE IIS PETE SED ET IE SOIREE TY ETE 
OT ETI 
° The Artist-Blacksmith’s Association of North America gives 
you their pithy newsletter with a membership. 
The Anvil's Ring: Robert Owings, Editor. $25/year (4 issues) 
from ABANA, P. O. Box 303, Cedarburg, WI 53012. 
[Suggested by John Matzke] 
