~ COMMUNICATIONS 
ROBOTS 349 
The Frank, Jr. arm and mobile base made from Automat 
components and Designatronics electronic parts. 
—The Robot Experimenter 
—Art Kleiner 
Basic Robotic Concepts 
Generally agreed upon as the best overall technical 
book. It’s designed to educate people about the various 
problems in robotics — balancing the machine, vision 
systems, motors, torque curves, wheels versus legs, and 
programming the intelligence. 
—Art Kleiner 
[Suggested by Richard Prather] 
Yo \uis00 EXTENSION 
Joints of a revolute- 
aks 
e 
arm robot. 
SHOULDER SWIVEL 
A jointed arm robot 
with six joint movements: 
1. Base sweep 
2. Shoulder swivel 
3. Elbow extension 
4. Wrist pitch 
5. Wrist roll 
6. Wrist yaw 
Like most robots, these 
two basic types are 
often made ina 
modular fashion. 
When wrists are 
yoorr_ present, they often 
ioe. y, 
donot allow yaw, 
ff 
or even roll. 
/ 
Transforming coordinate 
frames. 
FRAME 0 
The Robot Experimenter 
The only regular source of information, besides Radio 
Electronics magazine, for people who are building their 
own robots. It deserves to survive and thrive. 
—Richard Prather (Homebrew Robotics Club) 
Robot 
Experimenter 
Raymond Cote, Editor 
$24lyear 
(12 issues) from: 
Robot Experimenter 
P. O. Box 458 
Peterborough, NH 
03458-0458 
Robotics 
Edited by an artificial intelligence pioneer, this anthology 
covers all the bases: the history of automatons, artifi- 
cial common sense, sensors, human-machine partnerships 
(cyborgs), industrial robots, and the effects of robots on 
society. Here is the best starting point for a non-tinkerer 
who wants to know what robotics is about, and how it 
might change the world. 
—Art Kleiner 
At some point in the future someone would go to work 
by slipping on a comfortable jacket lined with a myriad 
of sensors and musclelike motors. Each motion of his 
arm and fingers would then be reproduced at another 
place by mobile, mechanical hands. Light, dexterous, 
and strong, those remote mechanical hands have their 
own sensors, which will transmit what’s happening back 
to the worker so that he will seem to feel whatever the 
remote hands may touch. The same will be done for the 
motions of the head and eyes, so that the operator will 
seem to see and sense what's happening in the other 
workplace. Once we can do such things, it will be 
another simple step to give those remote presences dif- 
ferent strengths and scale of size. These remote bodies 
can have the brute capacity of a giant or the delicacy of 
a surgeon. And, using these information channels, an 
operator could be anyplace — in another room, another 
city, another country, even out on a space station 
orbiting the Earth. 
A 1980 census of robots, taken by Bache Halsey Stuart 
Shields, Inc., showed that the United States had 3,000 of 
them. .. 
. The entire Soviet Union had only 25, and 
these were evidently experimental devices, but Poland 
had 360... 
. The true homeland of the robot appears to 
be Japan, with 10,000 in the census, more than the rest 
of the world combined. 
Man-controlied machines, like the 
rifle-armed Ro-Veh, can be made to 
rush in where wise men would never go. 
NLIKE PERSONAL COMPUTERS, robots have not become a popular consumer item — despite 
such prototypes as Heathkit’s “Hero” and Nolan Bushnell’s “Topo.” The personal robots that exist today 
are like the primitive personal computers of a decade ago. They show a great deal of promise, but they 
are sort of useless novelty items now. As costs shrink, that will change. Sometime soon, many a small 
industrial workshop and school will find it worthwhile to buy a robot. Families will follow suit later. 
In the meantime, robotics has become the most intriguing, involving, gripping field of inquiry for home 
electronics experimenters. 
As one robot-maker, Maris Ambats, described the scene, “Robotics is at an early stage, and an independent 
experimenter can make substantial original contributions without a large budget or elaborate equipment.” 
Robotics 
Marvin Minsky, Editor 
1985; 317 pp. 
$19.95 
postpaid from: 
Doubleday and Company 
Direct Mail Order 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth Access 
Basic Robotic 
Concepts 
John M. Holland 
1983; 270 pp. 
$19.95 
($22.45 postpaid) from: 
Howard W. Sams & Co. 
4300 West 62nd Street 
Indianapolis, IN 46268 
or Whole Earth Access 
This intelligent prosthetic arm, from 
the University of Utah, converts fine 
muscle contractions into delicate limb 
movement. 
