254 NOMADICS 
CAN’T THINK OF ANYTHING more sure to change minds than traveling. Some advice about what 
to take: very little. Baggage is what you are supposed to leave behind. Take as little money as your 
wealth of time will let you afford. I’ve noticed that time-rich travelers come back more satisfied than 
Lonely Planet 
Newsletter 
Maureen Wheeler 
$1 Ov/vear 
(4 issues); Catalog free 
both from: 
Lonely Planet 
Publications 
1555 D Park Avenue 
Emeryville, CA 94608 
Globe 
Barbara Macanas, Editor 
$1 Alyear 
(6 issues) from: 
The Globetrotters Club 
BCM/Roving 
London, WCIN 3XX UK 
New York Times 
Practical Traveler 
Paul Grimes 
1985; 412 pp. 
$10.95 
($11.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
Attn.: Order Dept. 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
money-rich travelers. 
Ideal time to go: right now. Where: as far away as you can imagine (hardly costs any more these days). How 
to prepare: I start with old National Geographics at the library, and then go hire out the new guidebooks 
on the shelf. I tell EVERYONE I meet what I’m doing, save any addresses I collect, and then actually startle 
the hosts by showing up. I bring a small pocket album of pictures of my home and friends. I smile all the 
time. Everyone smiles back and then stares politely at my ignorance. Slowly they change my mind. 
—Kevin Kelly 
Lonely Planet Newsletter 
Inferior travel guides tend to dwell on architecture styles 
and the merits of larger hotels because these artifacts 
change slowly and information about them can be recycled 
with confidence. Not so with loose personal traveling. The 
former Tuesday open-air market is now on Friday. To 
keep alive and useful, the superior guidebooks published 
by Lonely Planet rely on mail from a legion of readers on 
the road to revamp each guide every other year. 
One year, print information out. Next year, information 
floods in, revised by users/readers on site. Third year, 
information edited by staff goes out again. That’s an un- 
commonly healthy respiration rate for a travel book. The 
result is a series of indispensable guides for remote and 
exotic places like Burma, Tibet, Papua New Guinea, 
Kashmir, Turkey, and Africa, to name a few. 
In between breaths, Lonely Planet funnels the best hun- 
dred or so update letters mailed in by traveling readers 
into a quarterly newsletter. This is the place to check for 
the latest gossip on border crossings, the el-cheapo hotels 
of choice, and a feel for current prices in Asia, Africa or 
Practical Traveler 
When | have a travel question this is the expert | reach 
for. It’s a reference collection by the only decent newspaper 
travel columnist in the country, Paul Grimes at the New 
York Times. | use it when | want to find out how to charter 
a bus, or rent a car in Europe, or scare up some legitimate 
tricks for buying an around-the-world airline ticket. His 
conception of travel is admirably broad, and his facts well 
researched. To keep current you might check your local 
Sunday paper; his column is syndicated in many of them. 
—KK 
e 
A more common way to save money on domestic flights 
is to take advantage of what the trade calls flyover, 
point-beyond or hidden-city ticketing. For example, not 
long ago the normal one-way coach fare between San 
Francisco.and Atlanta was $420 on nonstop flights of 
Delta or Eastern. But Delta was selling seats on the same 
flight to Tampa, Florida — a point beyond Atlanta — for 
$179. Thus, a San Franciscan bound for Atlanta could 
have saved $241 by buying a ticket to Tampa and simply 
leaving the plane at its first stop. 
@ 
In the New York area, a forty-six-passenger bus equipped 
with a rest room will probably rent for $500 to $700 a 
day for transportation alone, depending on distance. 
Elsewhere the rates are probably cheaper. 
@ 
Contrary to what seems to be popular opinion, American 
embassies and consulates are not travel agencies, law 
offices, Red Cross stations, banks, or hostels for the weary 
of foot and empty of pocket. Their staffs will not change 
hotel reservations, post bail, tend the sick, lend money, 
or provide sleeping bags to ease the discomfort of sleep- 
ing on their foyer floors. American travelers’ expectations 
of what consuls can do can be extraordinarily high. 
South America. The latest issues have been overflowing 
with red-hot advice from independent travelers in Tibet. 
Tibet 
There are plenty of other good restaurants in Lhasa, 
especially the Muslim places behind the mosque. Tibetan 
specialties are available everywhere in Lhasa — curd is 
50 fen for half a kilo, sold in a glass jam pot. It’s delicious, 
incredibly creamy, just consider the green pastures all 
over the country! 
Tsampa (barley flour that you mix yourself with water, or 
if you are well-off, with butter-tea), tastes no worse than 
porridge. Most Tibetans live on it — it’s hard to find it in 
restaurants. 
Tchang is the local barley beer. At 10 fen a glass, you 
find it in open-air tents in the street. 
Excellent donuts can be found in the CAAC street, a few 
metres north of the office. 
Globe 
The drifters of Europe in the ‘60s invented a contemporary 
form of education: extended world travel. At about $3000 
per year, all adventures included, it is still the cheapest 
college there is. As a guide to what is offered, Globe, the 
newsletter of the Globetrotters Club, is consistently the 
best tutor for long-term travel. Ramblers just back from 
around-the-world-tours file meaty debriefings on condi- 
tions and prices in, say, Timbucktu, or Norway. Globe 
prints them quickly before they decay. Unlike Lonely Planet 
Newsletter they also review books, supply a place to 
advertise for travel-mates, and cover tripping in Europe 
and the U.S. (exotic if you don’t live here). With genuine 
club spirit, you can contact other members overseas for 
on-the-spot inquiries. Gather no moss (or ivy). 
—KK 
E 
Campmobile Around the World 
Tom and Beverly Tarnow (California) have recently com- 
pleted a four-year around the world trip covering 102 
countries. They drove their campmobile through Europe, 
Africa, South America, North America, Australia (Asia 
by airplane). They say they are willing to offer suppor- 
ting correspondence about overland experience with a 
VW campmobile through the less developed areas of 
South America and Africa: Algeria, Nigeria, Zaire, 
Kenya, South Africa. 
TEL AVIV — Dead Sea. 
