388 
Conceptual Physics 
Paul G. Hewitt 
1985; 650 pp. 
$31.75 
($33.25 postpaid) from: 
Little, Brown & Co. 
Atin.: Order Dept. 
200 West Street 
Waltham, MA 02254 
or Whole Earth Access 
Thinking Physics 
Lewis C. Epstein 
1986; 565 pp. 
$17.95 
($19.95 postpaid) from: 
Insight Press 
614 Vermont Street 
San Francisco, CA 94107 
or Whole Earth Access 
Relativity 
Visualized 
Lewis C. Epstein 
1985; 200 pp. 
$12.95 
($14.95 postpaid) from: 
Insight Press 
614 Vermont Street 
San Francisco, CA 94107 
or Whole Earth Access 
Joxatoti0r 
Cookbook! 
LEARNING 
SCIENCE 
Physics 
To have no understanding of basic physics in an industrial 
society is to be ignorant in a debilitating way; even if you 
don’t like science and technology, there’s no point in be- 
ing blind. But learning physics is tough if you aren’t adept 
at calculus. Until now. These three books are marvels of 
clarity — entirely free of author ego-brandishing that so 
often clouds explanatory writing. Conceptual Physics is 
the whole bit right up to a nibble at quantum physics. 
Thinking Physics is a set of fun and maddening questions 
that force you to use your noodle (and what you've learned 
in the first book). Relativity Visualized is just that, and a 
good job of it, too. You’re unlikely to find an easier way 
to learn this stuff. 
—JB 
ie 
= 
S 
rs 
és 
O° 230 
Galileo’s explanation: The following is Galileo’s explana- 
tion of why large and small masses (disregarding air 
resistance) fall at the same rate. 
The acceleration of a large falling rock is the same as 
the acceleration of a small falling rock because a large 
rock is just a bunch of small rocks falling together. 
This explanation is occasionally reinvented by people 
who think about these things. Though not the first to 
think this way, they walk in the footprints of the old master! 
—Relativity Visualized 
e@ 
Battleship floating in a bathtub 
Can a battleship float in a bathtub?* Of course, you have 
to imagine a very big bathtub or a very small battleship. 
In either case, there is just a bit of water all around and 
aes 
* This was my father’s favorite physics question. —L. Epstein 
under the ship. Specifically, suppose the ship weighs 100 
tons (a very small ship) and the water in the tub weighs 
100 pounds. Will it float or touch bottom? 
a) It will float if there is enough water to go all around it 
b) It will touch bottom because the ship’s weight exceeds 
the water’s weight 
The answer is: a. There are a lot of ways to show why. 
This way was suggested by a student. Consider the ship 
floating in the ocean (sketch |). Next, surround the ship 
with a big plastic baggie — this is actually done some- 
times with oil tankers — (sketch II). Next, let the ocean 
freeze except for the water in the baggie next to the ship 
(sketch III). Finally, get an ice sculptor to cut a bathtub 
out of the solid ice and you have it (sketch IV). 
This question points out the danger of thinking in words, 
rather than thinking in pictures and ideas. If you just 
think in words you might reason: ‘’To float, the battleship 
must displace its own weight in water. Its own weight is 
100 tons, but there is only 100 pounds of water available 
— so it cannot float.’’ But if you picture the idea you will 
see the displacement refers to the water that would fill 
the ship’s hull if the inside of the ship’s hull were filled to 
the water-line. And this displacement is 100 tons. 
Don’t rely on words, or equations, until you can picture 
the idea they represent. 
—Thinking Physics 
The Exploratorium 
In San Francisco, you don’t say, “‘Let’s go to the science 
museum,” you say, “‘Let’s spend the day at the Explora- 
torium.”’ It’s a place of discovery where you learn about 
light and sound and physics and biology and computers 
and whatever is being shown at the time of your visit, and 
whatever is being built for future shows (the workshop is 
visible so you can watch exhibits being made). Visitors 
are encouraged to poke, grab, and wiggle as they explore 
the amazing variety of fascinating stuff in the enormous 
space. It’s what a ‘‘museum”’ should be. Even the store is 
wonderful. And you can book parties there if you’re a 
member! 
The Exploratorium publishes nifty items too: Posters, ex- 
hibit catalogs, What's Going On newsletter, and The Ex- 
ploratorium Quarterly. Most interesting: two (and soon 
three) Exploratorium Cookbooks that tell you how to 
make your own exhibits. The whole bit is carried off with 
imagination, sass and humor in a way that makes most 
other museums of any sort seem sort of sad by comparison. 
—JB 
Exploratorium 
40 
Membership $3Q/year 
Individual Cookbook 
Publications list free 
Heys $1 
Exploratorium 
salts 
The Exploratorium 
Cookbook | 
3601 Lyon Street 
eep 180 pp. 
San Francisco, CA 94123 
6 
Cookbook 
II 
1980; 180 pp. 
Magnetic lines of force can be seen and felt using a large 
magnet and several pounds of black sand (magnetite) or 
iron filings. The sand follows the magnetic lines of force and 
can be made to form images of the magnetic field. The 
sand, (without dirtying one’s hands) provides a very 
pleasant and unusual tactile sensation because of its 
attraction to the magnet. Magnetic ‘‘castles of sand”’ can 
also be built. 
—Exploratorium Cookbook II 
¢ Some of the best textbooks for kids are adult textbooks. 
Precocious students should check the books on math (p. 25), 
and science magazines (p. 26). The diagrams in Scientific 
American are amazingly fascinating and accessible to 
interested kids. 
