CRAFT 
160 
Moving 
Heavy Things 
Jan Adkins 
1980; 48 pp. 
$6.95 
($8.45 postpaid) from: 
Houghton Mifflin Co. 
Attn.: Order Processing 
Wayside Road 
Burlington, MA 01803 
or Whole Earth Access 
Handyman 
Jack 
$45-$75 
Information 
free from: 
Harrah 
Manufacturing 
Co. 
46 West Spring 
Street 
Bloomfield, 
IN 47424 
TOOL RENTAL 
RENTING TOOLS, 
ssw 
ented tools let you do the job yourself instead of hiring someone whose only attribute may be 
possession of a tool you don’t own or don’t care to own. Renting is also a good way to try out 
several brands of something expensive before you buy. A surprising variety of tools can be rented 
these days. You should shop around; I have found very different prices, policies, and selection at 
competing rent-its. One thing is common to all though: a damage deposit. Be sure and bring some cash. 
Check the tool for proper operation before leaving the store. Write down any defects on the rental agreement 
form or you may lose your damage deposit later. Machines that endure lots of abuse should be checked 
with extra care. If one machine is in better shape than another, you can reserve “the good one” ahead of 
time by talking up the friendliest clerk. Get the clerk’s name for future use, and be generous with your thanks 
if all goes well. Sometimes you can arrange to take a tool home the night before at no extra charge. 
Ask for tips on tool use; the instructions (make sure they are supplied) may not tell all. Floor sanders, for 
instance, rarely come with hints for preventing the dreaded and expensive WHAP-flup-flup-flup of sandpaper 
ripped on an exposed nailhead. (Meticulously pound them in before starting the sander.) Machines that eat 
material may run up a supply bill that exceeds the rental fee. The clerk should be able to give an estimate. 
Get a time estimate too, allowing extra for adventures in learning. You should also allow for time lost to 
breakdowns of abuseable equipment such as ditchdiggers. The rent-it won’t charge you for time lost due to 
breakdowns that aren’t your fault, but they won’t pay you for your lost Saturday either. 
When renting, a flexible attitude is appropriate. That, with a bit of luck, should get the job done for less 
money while increasing your independence. That’s a pretty good deal these days. 
g 
Moving 
Heavy Things 
ANGLES 
< 
tension 
pull-out 
| remember once watching in 
wonder as a lone man carried 
a full-size upright piano up a 
flight of stairs! How did he do 
it? This marvelous little primer 
brings to us mere mortals the 
secrets of manipulating weighty 
objects — without damaging 
them or us. Not only are the 
secrets well explained and il- 
lustrated (with Mr. Adkins’ nifty 
drawings), the proper spirit is 
attended. The book encourages 
independence. Every house- 
hold should have one. 
—JB 
Come-Along 
Hoist/Winch/Puller 
You can put a half-ton of moxie on 
anything and lift or drag it 12 feet. If 
you'll settle for six feet, the capacity 
grows to a full ton. Load is released 
a notch at a time without danger of 
running amok. I’ve used mine for 
fence stretching, car unstucking (you 
can even drag ‘em sideways), aligning 
house framing, lifting engines from 
vehicles, river rescue work, and hoist- 
ing things to the rooftops. I’ve had 
good luck with Maasdam brand ($25 
or so), from Burden’s. 
—JB 
Multiply the weight of your load by the 
factors beside the angle of your cable 
droop to get the tension in your cable and 
the pull-out force. 
Handyman Jack 
Basically the Handyman Jack is a super-heavy-duty 
bumper jack, but it bears no resemblance to the inade- 
quate things that Detroit supplies with their inadequate 
automobiles. It weighs 29 pounds, has a capacity of three 
and one-half tons, and a lift of three feet. 
I’ve used mine for lifting my truck, stretching shrunken 
plastic water pipe, and a number of odd lifting and 
spreading jobs, and wouldn’t part with it for anything. 
Warning: Beware of the handle, or EAT TEETH. 
—Douglas Canning 
e Lifting, prying, dragging, pushing, and pulling are all 
explained scientifically in Conceptual Physics (p. 388). 
| recently used mine for lifting an entire barn corner back 
to level after a flood, pulling fence posts out of the 
ground, and manipulating a downed tree. You can get a 
permanent sheath for the jack so it can ride theft-resistantly 
in your pickup. This thing is old-time American know-how 
at its best. 
—JB 
: 
q 
