COMMUNITY 
ENVIRONMENTAL POLITICS 
87 
“4 man who has a vision is not able to use the power of it until he has 
performed the vision on Earth for the people to see . 
. 
.”” —Black Elk 
Hella 
Hammid 
ANY HAVE VISIONS. More blab on. Few do anything until the 
pesticide planes fly overhead or the robins arrive no more. Here 
is the spectrum of environmental warriors — all effective and 
necesssary in different ways — all inspired by the hope that 
maybe, just maybe, our grandchildren will find a few spots of ancient, un- 
touched planet to hear the sound of creeks, alone and with peaceful minds. 
—Peter Warshall 
Riparian corridor on The 
Nature Conservancy’s 
1,500-acre Kern River 
Preserve in California. The 
endangered yellow-billed 
cuckoo breeds here, and 
200 other bird species have 
been sighted. This is one of 
the last intact remnants 
of riverside woodland 
in the state. 
an 
» 
mK 
% 
7 
oY 
mee 7A ie 
x 
Environmental Groups 
Earth First! 
Out on the front lines of eco-defense is Earth First!. ‘‘No 
compromise in the defense of Mother Earth!’ Direct action 
against the machinery (not people) and eco-theatre is 
their modus operandi. Because many environmental 
groups have become top-heavy with managerial salaries 
and glossy promotions, Earth First! attracts more youth 
and makes more efficient use of limited funds. 
—Peter Warshall 
Earth First! (The Radical Environmental Journal): Dave 
Foreman, Editor, $15/year (8 issues) from Earth First!, P.O. 
Box 5871, Tucson, AZ 85703. 
Sierra Club 
The Sierra Club has many parts which provide different 
services. They have integrated their politics with the Big 
Boys so well that sometimes | think the leadership loses 
touch. This occurred, for instance when the Sierra Club 
supported a huge water project in California (the Peripheral 
Canal) which its membership overwhelmingly hated and 
its defense fund was essentially trying to halt. The Sierra 
Club is also the “‘hated’’ symbol for those who feel envi- 
ronmentalists are commie extremists. Caught in all these 
cross-currents, they can use more input and support from 
their membership. The voice of John Muir needs a 1980s 
broadcast system. 
—Peter Warshall 
Sierra Club: Membership $29/year (includes 6 issues of 
Sierra Magazine) from Sierra Club: 730 Polk Street, San 
Francisco, CA 94109. 
ES LR 
STE 
LTE LEAT TS LEAL, 
e Environment defenders can augment their political 
effectiveness by applying the strategies and tactics shown on 
pp. 104-105. 
¢ For a novel approach to affordable housing in cities, see 
the Institute for Community Economics and their Community 
Land Trust Handbook (p. 110). 
National Audubon Society 
See 
z 
r-
The strength of Audubon since 1905 has been its naturalist 
a 
j
backbone. More than any other environmental organiza- 
% 
* 
tion, its members actually know the animals and plants 
> 
Ci 
they try to conserve. Not only that, they seem to love their 
le 
é 
Ansel Adams” th Dates® 
knowledge with early naturalist enthusiasm. The educa- 
tional aspects of Audubon are truly admirable. Their 
politics vary locally and, if you contribute, it’s good to 
earmark your contribution for a particular purpose, 
especially for specific sanctuaries. 
—Peter Warshall 
National Audubon Society: Membership $30/year (includes 
6 issues of Audubon Magazine) from National Audubon 
Society, Membership Data Center, P. O. Box 2666, Boulder, 
CO 80322. 
The Conservation Foundation 
Runs an eco-mediation ‘‘Dispute Resolution Program’’ to 
bypass lawyers, courts, and the big bucks (see mention of 
their book on next page). 
—Peter Warshall 
a 
ST 
Lobbying Groups 
In groups like the Environmental Defense Fund, National 
Resources Defense Council and Sierra Club Legal 
Defense Fund (not the same as Sierra Club) hardnosed 
lawyers keep Congress and the courts from slouching and 
swallowing even more eco-destruction, pollution, and 
poisoning of the planet. 
—Peter Warshall 
Environmental Defense Fund: Membership $20/year (in- 
cludes 6 issues of EDF Letter) from EDF, 1616 P Street NW, 
Washington, DC 20036. 
Natural Resources Defense Council: Membership $10/year 
(includes subscription to Amicus Journal and Newsline 
Newsletter) from NRDC, 122 E. 42nd Street, New York, 
NY 10168. 
Sierra Club Legal Defense Fund: Information free from 2044 
Fillmore Street, San Francisco, CA 94115. 
Aspens 
