PHILOSOPHY 
LEARNING 385 
a 
Zen and the Art of 
Motorcycle Maintenance 
Philosophical practicality. Practical philosophy. Harsh 
realism. Lofty aspiring. With Pirsig on the motorcycle 
road with his disturbed son Chris, the apparent contradic- 
tions kick each other into robust life. A kickstart of a book 
for anyone. 
—Stewart Brand 
: 
; 
When he brought his motorcycle over | got my wrenches 
out but then noticed that no amount of tightening would 
stop the slippage, because the ends of the collars were 
pinched shut. 
“You're going to have to shim those out,’’ | said. 
“What's shim?’’ 
“It’s a thin, flat strip of metal. You just slip it around the 
handlebar under the collar there and it will open up the 
collar to where you can tighten it again. You use shims 
like that to make adjustments in all kinds of machines.”’ 
“Oh,”’ he said. He was getting interested. ‘‘Good. 
Where do you buy them?’ 
“I’ve got some right here,’’ | said gleefully, holding up a 
can of beer in my hand. 
He didn’t understand for a moment. Then he said, 
“What, the can?’’ 
““Sure,’’ | said, ‘best shim stock in the world.’’ 
| thought this was pretty clever myself. Save him a trip to 
God knows where to get shim stock. Save him time. Save 
him money. 
But to my surprise he didn’t see the cleverness of this at 
all. In fact he got noticeably haughty about the whole 
thing. Pretty soon he was dodging and filling with all 
kinds of excuses and, before | realized what his real at- 
titude was, we had decided not to fix the handlebars 
after all. 
As far as | know those handlebars are still loose. And | 
believe now that he was actually offended at the time. | 
had had the nerve to propose repair of his new eighteen- 
hundred-dollar BMW, the pride of a half-century of Ger- 
man mechanical finesse, with a piece of old beer can! 
The purpose of scientific method is to select a single truth 
from among many hypothetical truths. That, more than 
anything else, is what science is all about. But historically 
science has done exactly the opposite. Through multipli- 
cation upon multiplication of facts, information, theories 
and hypotheses, it is science itself that is leading 
mankind from single absolute truths to multiple, indeter- 
minate, relative ones. The major producer of the social 
chaos, the indeterminacy of thought and values that ra- 
tional knowledge is supposed to eliminate, is none other 
than science itself. And what Phaedrus saw in the isola- 
tion of his own laboratory work years ago is now seen 
everywhere in the technological world today. Scientific- 
ally produced antiscience — chaos. 
| tell him getting stuck is the commonest trouble of all. 
Usually, | say, your mind gets stuck when you’re trying to 
do too many things at once. What you have to do is try 
not to force words to come. That just gets you more 
stuck. What you have to do now is separate out the 
things and do them one at a time. You’re trying to think 
of what to say and what to say first at the same time and 
that’s too hard. So separate them out. Just make a list of 
all the things you want to say in any old order. Then 
later we'll figure out the right order. 
“Like what things?’ he asks. 
“Well, what do you want to tell her?’’ 
“About the trip.”’ 
“What things about the trip?’’ 
He thinks for a while. “About the mountain we climbed. ’’ 
“Okay, write that down,”’ | say. 
He does. 
Then | see him write down another item, then another, 
while | finish my cigarette and coffee. He goes through 
three sheets of paper, listing things he wants to say. 
““Save those,’’ | tell him, ‘‘and we'll work on them later.’’ 
“I'll never get all this into one letter,’’ he says. 
He sees me laugh and frowns. 
| say, ‘Just pick out the best things.’’ Then we head out- 
side and onto the motorcycle again. 
Against Method 
e The Structure of 
Scientific Revolutions 
These two books aren’t new, but they remain among the 
best papers examining what constitutes scientific ‘‘truth.’’ 
Kuhn’s book shows the advancement of science to be ir- 
regular and subject to highly nonlogical processes. Mr. 
Feyerabend argues that science is but one ideology out of 
many, and that truth is most likely to be found in an intel- 
lectual environment that encourages the proliferation of 
many theories and ideologies. 
Fortunately, both books are easily read, though you'll 
probably have to stop and ponder now and then as your 
logic base is assailed. 
—JB 
Aristotle’s Physica, Ptolemy’s Almagest, Newton’s Prin- 
cipia and Opticks, Franklin’s Electricity, Lavoisier’s 
Chemistry, and Lyell’s Geology — these and many other 
works served for a time implicitly to define the legitimate 
problems and methods of a research field for succeeding 
generations of practitioners. They were able to do so 
because they shared two essential characteristics. Their 
achievement was sufficiently unprecedented to attract an 
enduring group of adherents away from competing 
modes of scientific activity. Simultaneously, it was suffi- 
ciently open-ended to leave all sorts of problems for the 
redefined group of practitioners to resolve. 
Achievements that share these two characteristics | shall 
henceforth refer to as ‘paradigms,’ a term that relates 
closely to ‘normal science.’ 
—The Structure of Scientific Revolutions 
The consistency condition which demands that new 
hypotheses agree with accepted theories is unreasonable 
because it preserves the older theory, and not the better 
theory. Hypotheses contradicting well-confirmed theories 
give us evidence that cannot be obtained in any other 
way. Proliferation of theories is beneficial for science, 
while uniformity impairs its critical power. Uniformity 
also endangers the free development of the individual. 
There is no idea, however ancient and absurd, that is not 
capable of improving our knowledge. The whole history 
of thought is absorbed into science and is used for im- 
proving every single theory. Nor is political interference 
rejected. It may be needed to overcome the chauvinism 
of science that resists alternatives to the status quo. 
No theory ever agrees with all the facts in its domain, 
yet it is not always the theory that is to blame. Facts are 
constituted by older ideologies, and a clash between 
facts and theories may be proof of progress. It is also a 
first step in our attempt to find the principles implicit in 
familiar observational notions. 
—Against Method 
Zen and the Art of 
Motorcycle 
Maintenance 
Robert M. Pirsig 
1974; 412 pp. 
$7.95 
($9.45 postpaid) from: 
William Morrow 
Publishing Co. 
6 Henderson Drive 
West Caldwell, NJ 07006 
or Whole Earth Access 
Against Method 
Paul Feyerabend 
1975;339 pp: 
$9.95 
($10.95 postpaid) from: 
Schocken Books, Inc. 
62 Cooper Square 
New York, NY 10003 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Structure of 
Scientific 
Revolutions 
Thomas S. Kuhn 
1970; 210 pp. 
$6.95 
($7.45 postpaid) from: 
University of Chicago Press 
11030 South Langley 
Chicago, IL 60628 
or Whole Earth Access 
old 
theory 
eee 
new theory 
