LAND USE 
74 
The Food and 
Heat Producing 
Solar Greenhouse 
Bill Yanda and Rick Fisher 
1980; 208 pp. 
$8 
($9.75 postpaid) from: 
John Muir Publications 
P. O. Box 613 
Santa Fe, NM 87501 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Bountiful 
Solar Greenhouse 
Shane Smith 
1982; 221 pp. 
$8 
($9.75 postpaid) from: 
John Muir Publications 
P. O. Box 613 
Santa Fe, NM 87504 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Mushroom 
Cultivator 
Paul Stamets 
and J. S. Chilton 
1983; 415 pp. 
$25 postpaid from: 
Homestead Book Co. 
6101 22nd Avenue NW 
Seattle, WA 98107 
or Whole Earth Access 
GREENHOUSES 
The Food and Heat Producing 
Solar Greenhouse 
In the ten years this book has been available, it has become 
the one where you look first. For good reason too — 
somebody or other has actually done what’s shown, and 
there’s a lot shown. More than shown, really, because 
there’s also lots of how and why too. And a good biblio- 
graphy with comment. And good photographs of proven 
details. And step-by-step instruction on both building and 
operating. In fact, the book is a marvel. Lots of love in it. 
—JB 
@ 
Since the first edition of this book, the Solar Room has 
proven itself to be one of the best buys in ‘’BTUs for the 
buck.’’ Literally millions of American homes could save 
heating dollars immediately by the installation of a 
Solar Room. ... 
Here is Steve Kenin’s explanation of his product: ‘‘The 
Solar Room is a device that turns the southern side of a 
home into a solar heater. Made of a special plastic, a 
The Saine Room. 
Solar Room can supply 35 to 65% of home space heating 
needs. With heat storage and insulation options, its 
heating capacity is greatly increased. The Solar Room is 
available in kit form and is designed to be an exterior 
room, seven feet wide and as long as space permits; 20, 
30 or 40 feet. The longer the Solar Room, the more heat 
is collected. 
The Bountiful Solar Greenhouse 
Books on designing and building solar greenhouses 
abound, but the scarce commodity until now has been 
an explanation of how to keep the plants inside them 
healthy and productive. Shane Smith helped start and 
has run the first large-scale solar greenhouse in America 
(Cheyenne, Wyoming’s Community Solar Greenhouse, 
5,000 square feet and 100 percent passively solar- 
heated). He has a wealth of experience and a knack for 
straightforward explanation. Consider a major niche 
well filled. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Plants use so much of the CO, in the air that in sealed 
environments like a greenhouse, the level of CO, may be 
depleted from 300 PPM to 100 PPM by noon. This can 
easily slow plant growth by 60 percent — not a pleasant 
thought. This phenomenon occurs only in winter green- 
houses where there is no outside ventilation and the 
structure is sealed to the outside. CO, depletion is also 
less in greenhouses with soils high in organic matter, due 
to the billions of microbes breathing in that rich, black, 
pulsing-with-life, humus-laden soil. 
| recommend use of an organic mulch to bring CO, levels 
to at least 1000 PPM — if not more. This enhanced level 
will help compensate for 
lower light and lower 
temperatures. It would 
be hard to find any 
other single low-cost 
thing you could do to 
make such a difference 
in food yield. 
As the watermelons begin 
to develop on the vines, 
they wili need support. 
The fruits can get so 
heavy they will rip the 
whole vine off the trellis. 
When a fruit is about 
tennis-ball size, slip it into 
an old nylon stocking and 
tie it securely to the trellis. 
The Mushroom Cultivator 
This is simply the best single manual ever published about 
each phase of home mushroom cultivation. Other books 
cover some of the more essential aspects of mushroom 
growing, like compost preparation, growing room con- 
struction, and maintenance of environmental conditions 
for optimum yield, but The Mushroom Cultivator takes 
you further, into a deeper understanding of mushroom 
Wild strain 
of Agaricus 
brunnescens 
fruiting in 
bag of cased 
compost. 
life. It includes a full course on the intricacies of “kitchen 
microbiology, ’’ essential for isolating and maintaining 
your own strains of mushroom cultures and for turning 
them into spawn — the “‘seed”’ for your mushroom garden. 
You 
‘ll appreciate the chapters on common microbial 
“‘weeds”’ and insect pests, and how to deal with them. 
Unlike many other writers on the subject, the authors are 
down on insecticides and fungicides. 
Whether you want to grow agaricus, the common gro- 
cery-store mushroom, or exotica like shiitake, psilocybe, 
or the oyster. mushroom, either as a weekend hobbyist or 
a small-business farmer, this is the manual you want. 
é 
—Ted Schultz 
In general, too much fresh air is preferable to insufficient 
air supply. However, fresh air displaces the existing room 
air which is then exhausted from the room. Unless this 
fresh air is preconditioned to meet the requirements of 
the species, one will be constantly disrupting the grow- 
ing environment and thereby overworking the heating 
and humidification systems. For this reason the air cir- 
culation system should be designed to recirculate the 
room air. This is accomplished by a mixing box with an 
adjustable damper that proportions fresh and circulated 
air. In this regard CO,-tolerant species give the grower a 
distinct advantage in maintaining the correct environment 
because they need less fresh air for growth. 
a
i
