HEALTH 
246 
The Complete Joy 
of Home Brewing 
Charlie Papazian 
1984; 331 pp. 
$8.95 
($9.95 postpaid) from: 
Avon Books 
P. O. Box 767 
Dresden, TN 38225 
or Whole Earth Access 
From Vines 
to Wines 
Jeff Cox 
1985; 253 pp. 
$18.45 
($20.45 postpaid) from: 
Harper and Row 
2350 Virginia Avenue 
Hagerstown, MD 21740 
or Whole Earth Access 
Modern 
Winemaking 
Philip Jackisch 
1985; 289 pp. 
$25 
($26 postpaid) from: 
Cornell University Press 
124 Robert’s Place 
Ithaca, NY 14850 
or Whole Earth Access 
BEER- AND WINEMAKING 
Vv, ¥ 
AN 
HERE A DECADE AGO there were perhaps four brewing conglomerates and a double handful 
of major wineries in New York and California, there are now over 50 microbreweries from 
coast to coast and commercial wineries in over 40 states. The making of fermented beverages is 
as old as culture itself and has roots on all continents in all latitudes, with adaptation for local 
ingredients and climate. Home beer- and winemaking can be a bioregional event at a gut level and a reward 
for all your senses. 
—Don Ryan 
The Complete 
Joy of Home Brewing 
The joy comes through indeed in this very thorough book 
by the editor of Zymurgy, and president of the American 
Homebrewers Association. The book’s logic is quite clever: 
after an engaging history lesson the beginner is run through 
a simple recipe and instructions for making five gallons 
of beer of rewarding quality. There follow chapters of 
greater depth on processes and ingredients, then a cycle 
through a more demanding recipe where the brewer can 
use more complicated techniques and can exercise more 
choice over ingredients. That is followed by descriptions 
of the chemistry of malt, yeast, hops, and water, and of 
techniques and theory so that brewers can create their 
Modern Winemaking 
e From Vines to Wines 
ee ee a ees 
i 
Modern Winemaking fills the need for a book that antici- 
pates the first-time winemaker’s wish to evaluate deficien- 
cies in their first bottling and to approach subsequent 
efforts with efficiency and sophistication. This book is 
neither dry nor pretentious. The author is the happy com- 
bination of a research chemist, commercial vintner and 
vineyardist, teacher, and engaging writer. The amateur 
winemaker could do no better except, perhaps for . 
. 
. 
From Vines to Wines. This book is so satisfyingly inclusive 
it could almost have gone in the Whole Systems section of 
this catalog. Jeff Cox, an editor at Organic Gardening for 
about 15 years, may be the John McPhee of winemaking. 
He talks about wine by detailing the influences on it, then 
dissects those influences until he has described a huge 
Amateur Brewer * Zymurgy 
Erstwhile photojournalist Bill Owens (Suburbia), proprietor 
of Buffalo Bill’s Brewery, has gotten together with editor 
Georgia Weathers of Home Fermenter's Digest to publish 
a new magazine under the name of Fred Eckhardt’s 
Amateur Brewer, with Eckhardt as technical editor. This 
formidable team has come up with a new quarterly that 
is both stylish and competent, with many familiar brewer/ 
writers as regular contributors, such as Bill Moore, author 
of the classy primer, Home Beermaking. 
Offering the new AB strong competition is Zymurgy, the 
journal of the American Homebrewers Association. A 
slightly thicker magazine than AB, Zmurgy carries lots 
of political and convention news and seems, because of 
relative maturity, to be able to reach higher into the next 
level of professional beermaking for ideas on techniques 
and ingredients. Zymurgy also features stories by and 
about recognized brew experts, such as a recent profile 
of Byron Burch, author of the classic Quality Brewing 
(soon to be updated and vastly enlarged), who was the 
supplier of ingredients and recipes for my first beers of 
ten years ago. 
—Don Ryan 
Amateur Brewer: Bill Owens, Editor $13.50/year (4 issues) 
from Amateur Brewer, P. O. Box 713, Hayward, CA 9454], 
Zymurgy: Charlie Papazian, Editor $17/year (5 issues) from 
American Homebrew Association, P. O. Box 287, Boulder, 
CO 80306-0287. 
own recipes. Then a cycle through the process once again. 
There are 13 appendices, from a glossary to a treatise on 
siphoning, but no index. 
—Don Ryan 
@ 
Miscellaneous Ingredients 
Chocolate — The addition of bitter baker’s chocolate or 
bittersweet nonmilk chocolate intrigues a growing num- 
ber of homebrewers. There you are, brewing a batch of 
dark beer, and perhaps having a few in the process. 
And there it is just sitting there in the cupboard, staring 
you in the face . 
. .a 1 - 6-ounce chunk of chocolate. “I 
wonder .. .,’” you think, and before you know it, in it 
goes. Wallah, chocolate beer. And it doesn’t turn out 
badly, in fact you brew one special batch once a year, 
to celebrate your impulse. 
circle of-interrelatedness. The chapters on selecting the 
site for your vineyard are a pure, sweet ecology lesson. 
This book is a little thinner than Jackisch’s — with greater 
scope — so it lacks a tiny bit of the depth, but it’s soooo 
good. Get ‘em both. 
—Don Ryan 
My wife, Marilyn, scrubs her legs and feet until they’re 
squeaky clean. Then from the shower, making sure all 
soapy water is rinsed off her feet, into clean socks. These 
she strips off one by one as she steps into the vat of 
grapes. Given the size of our vats, the juice and pulp 
reach above her knee, and she treads in place until the 
grapes have been crushed and are all off the stems. The 
sight of her thighs dripping with grape juice never fails to 
quicken my pulse. This is not a bad time to put your Bo 
Diddley record on the turntable and pass around some 
wine that’s good for gulping. | 
—From Vines to Wines 
The Way to Make Wine From 
Fruit 
¢ The Way to Make Beer 
Two video cassettes, taped in a home kitchen, show just 
how simple it can be to make fruit wine or beer at home, 
using pots, measuring cups, and strainers you probably 
already have. No specific recipes, you'll still need one 
of the books or magazines reviewed here. Rent one from 
your retailer or have your club buy the pair. —Don Ryan 
The Way To Make Wine From Fruit; The Way To Make Beer: 
$39.95 each postpaid. 
Information free from Great Fermentations, 87 Larkspur, 
San Rafael, CA 94901. 
¢ Most mail order suppliers advertise in the magazines 
above. First check your local yellow pages. What you get 
in the mail ranges from simple price lists to informative 
newsletters. Here’s a sample, all free: 
Bacchus and Barleycorn: 6110 Johnson Drive, Mission, 
KS 66202. 
Cape Cod Brewers: P. O. Box 1139, South Chatham, 
MA 02659. 
The Cellar: P.O. Box 33525, Seattle, WA 98133. 
Great Fermentations: 87 Larkspur, San Rafael, CA 94901. 
William's Brewing: P. O. Box 2195, San Leandro, CA 94577. 
