l and Thou 
You can read I and Thou in two hours and not get over it 
for the rest of your life. Buber tells you how you stand, 
either in a dialogical relationship with the Creative Force 
or in a position of “‘havingness”’ where you are a thing 
bounded by other things. 
—Ken Kesey 
A discovery more prime than Einstein’s Relativity is 
Buber’s distinction between the “‘experience’’ of I-It and 
the “‘relation’’ of I-You. It can cure at once the twin 
pathologies of Transcendent God and Controllable Nature. 
In “‘I-You’’ is the possibility of love that does not possess, 
as well as the realest perception of learning, which is 
coevolution. Martin Buber’s original German forrent is 
well served by the translation and prologue by Walter 
Kaufmann. 
—Stewart Brand 
A man’s relation to the ‘‘particular something’ that ar- 
rogates the supreme throne of his life’s values, pushing 
eternity aside, is always directed toward the experience 
and use of an It, a thing, an object of enjoyment. For 
only this kind of relation can bar the view to God, by 
interposing the impenetrable It-world; the relationship 
that says You always opens it up again. 
Whoever says You does not have something for his ob- 
ject. For wherever there is something there also another 
something: every It borders on other Its; It is only by vir- 
tue of bordering on others. But where You is said there is 
no something. You has no borders. 
Whoever says You does not have something; he has 
nothing. But he stands in relation. 
|! AND THOU 
La 
Throughout all of this the tree remains my object and has 
its place and its time span, its kind and condition. 
But it can also happen, if will and grace are joined, that 
as | contemplate the tree | am drawn into a relation, 
and the tree ceases to be an It. The power of exclusive- 
ness has seized me. 
@ 
| perceive something. | feel something. | imagine some- 
thing. | want something. | sense something. | think some- 
thing. The life of a human being does not consist merely 
of all this and its like. 
All this and its like is the basis of the realm of It. 
But the realm of You has another basis. 
® 
When | confront a human being as my You and speak 
the basic word I-You to him, then he is no thing among 
things nor does he consist of things. 
He is no longer He or She, limited by other Hes and Shes, 
a dot in the world grid of space and time, nor a condi- 
tion that can be experienced and described, a loose 
bundle of named qualities. Neighborless and seamless, 
he is You and fills the firmament. Not as if there were 
nothing but he; but everything else lives in his light. 
e 
In truth language does not reside in man but man stands 
in language and speaks out of it. 
e 
Extended, the lines of relationships intersect in the exter- 
nal You. Every single You is a glimpse of that. Through 
every single You the basic word addresses the eternal You. 
a 
The Amy Vanderbilt 
Complete Book of Etiquette 
I used to think that to have manners was to be mannered; 
that etiquette was affectation. Now | see that discipline of 
any sort is a lot more comfortable than its absence, and 
that is quite as true of consideration for others as it is of 
daily exercise or meditation. Comfortable, yes; effortless, 
no. There’s inborn grace and learned grace, and in a 
world of constant change and conflict, what’s inborn may 
soon be eroded. 
All you have to do is follow a few hundred simple sug- 
For a dinner party, the table should be set the same for 
all guests. You do not set the recovered alcoholic’s place 
at the dinner table with the wineglasses conspicuously 
missing. When wine is served, this guest will simply make 
a ‘‘no, thank you’’ gesture when the wine is offered to 
him. He might also accept wine in his glass in order not 
to distract, but will, of course, leave it untouched. You 
are not putting temptation in his way by offering him wine, 
because a recovered alcoholic has to train himself with a 
fine-edged will power to refuse liquor of all kinds in all 
circumstances. 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 23 
| and Thou 
Martin Buber 
1958; 137 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Macmillan Publishing Co. 
Order Dept. 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth Access 
gestions. The essence of them is consideration for others, 
whether that is made manifest as tact, promptness in thank- 
ing people, being organized enough not to confound every- 
Recessional, > 
Christian cere- 
mony, optional 
: 
: 
: 
: 
arrangement. 
body else, or making a proper introduction. The point of 
mci gine aoa, 
all the information, commonplace (how to make a bed) or 
top down: 
Groom and 
bride; flower 
girl or page, or 
esoteric (what sort of gift to give a nun), is “‘to help people 
make it through life just a little more easily and be a little 
more sure of themselves. “’ 
—Stephanie Mills 
pages, if any, 
[Suggested by Edith G. Mills] 
or second honor a 
ALTAR 
7 
Y 
attendant, if 
| 
; 
any; best man 
Some bachelors become truly bored by having to attend 
and maid or matron of honor; ushers and 
) 
parties every night and always having to take care of 
i 
bridesmaids paired. 
whatever single woman is present. If this is the case, the 
man should be frank with his friends. ‘‘Look, I’d love to 
come over some night to have a hamburger with you 
and the kids and to relax a bit, but I’m tired of parties.” 
Frankness in social relationships never has to be rude; 
well-stated frankness is always for the best. 
A very nice gesture to make before the dinner party is to 
ask a recovered alcoholic if there is some drink he or she 
particularly likes, such as iced tea or a special kind of 
juice. Some like to drink tea or coffee during the cocktail 
—_ 
Revised by Letitia Baldrige 
hour. A recovered alcoholic who doesn’t want to be “‘dif- 
[EERO 
ESE: 
13 5 
Atak tR 
1978; 879 pp. 
erent’’ 
might 
ask 
for 
ginger ale 
because it 
“looks 
like 
: 
scotch Se 
cada & 
eae 
$1 7.95 postpaid from: 
A Formal dinner setting as guest approaches the table. The 
butter plate is optional. Glasses for four wines — sherry, 
white, red, and champagne — are included, as well asa 
water goblet. 
The Amy Vanderbilt 
Complete Book 
of Etiquette 
Doubleday and Company 
Direct Mail Order 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth Access 
