WHOLE SYSTEMS 
ENDANGERED SPECIES 
uring the Great Dying of the Dinosaurs one species vanished every 10,000 years. Species are 
] 
now vanishing somewhere between 40 and 400 times faster. By the year 2000, perhaps one 
million species will have become extinct because of human influences on the planet. Compared 
Furbish’s 
Lousewort 
Ni 
—Wildflowers Wy 
M: anificent 
- vile : 
Our Magnificent 
Wildlife 
The Reader’s 
Digest Editors 
1975; 352 pp. 
$19.95 
($21.64 postpaid) from: 
Reader’s Digest 
Attn.: Order Entry 
Pleasantville, NY 10570 
or Whole Earth Access 
ae to the Great Dying, this is the Holocaust. 
There is perhaps no more noble or righteous employment on the planet than saving a living species (or its 
habitat). Try it. It’s a world of smuggling, tears, beauty, petty bureaucracy, mockery, vigilance, money, 
and unbending vision. 
—Peter Warshall 
The only recently known wild population of black-footed 
ferrets was discovered in 1981 at the base of the Carter 
Mountains, near Meeteetse, Wyoming. For four years, 
scientists trapped, tagged, and tracked the wild ferrets to 
ascertain their numbers and to learn about their behavior. 
—Animal Kingdom 
Because the Furbish lousewort has a funny-sounding 
name,/It was ripe for making ridicule, and that’s a sort 
of shame./For there is a disappearing world, and man 
has played his role/In taking little parts away from what 
was once the whole./We can get along without them; we 
may not feel their lack/But extinction means that 
something’s gone, and never coming back./So, here’s to 
you, little lousewort, and here’s to your rebirth./And may 
you somehow multiply, refurbishing the earth. 
—Where Have all the Wildflowers Gone? 
Where Have All the Wildflowers Gone?: Robert H. Mohlen- 
brock, 1983; 239 pp. $15.34 postpaid from Macmillan Pub- 
lishing Co./Order Dept., Front and Brown Streets, Riverside, 
NJ 08075 (or Whole Earth Access). 
Vanishing Fishes of North America: Dr. R. Dana Ono, Dr. 
James D. Williams and Anne Wagner, 1983; 257 pp. $29.95 
($31.95 postpaid) from Stone Wall Press, 1241 30th Street 
NW, Washington, DC 20007 (or Whole Earth Access). 
Our Magnificent Wildlife 
An OUTSTANDING book, as we’ve come to expect from 
Reader’s Digest. Not just a picture book, every page has 
some clearly presented new understanding, along with 
abundant encouragement for the reader to do something 
about it. The whole back end of the volume concerns 
making wildlife habitats in your backyard, photographing 
animals, and working with conservation organizations. 
This is the only book I’ve seen that tells preservation 
success stories. 
Three cheers. 
—Stewart Brand 
The overpowering impression of South Asia is people. 
More than 1,000 human beings per square mile are 
crowded into the Ganges Basin. The only hope for the 
survival of wildlife is in sanctuaries. But many existing 
sanctuaries contain villages, virtually all permit livestock 
grazing, some extract timber, and poaching is common. 
A comprehensive system of sanctuaries must be estab- 
lished in this 
generation, or the remaining lands will 
be swamped by the human tide. 
Going, Going, Gone... 
Where Have All the Wildflowers Gone? and Vanishing 
Fishes of North America are extremely well-written, en- 
tertaining surveys of two groups of living beings that need 
allies. For specific species (bats, cycads, manatees, desert 
bighorns, salmon, peregrines, et al.), see the ‘“Conserva- 
tion’’ section in the index of the Encyclopedia of Associa- 
tions (p. 309), where you'll find Defenders of Wildlife, 
the organization that keeps a report card on Congress 
and the administration’s support for endangered species’ 
salvation. In 1985 they received “‘D+.’’ Animal King- 
dom is the most thoughtful magazine on protecting 
wildlife in the Third World and the importance of zoos 
in keeping critters from oblivion. 
| —Peter Warshall 
Unarmored threespine stickleback. 
| —Vanishing Fishes 
Defenders of Wildlife: membership $20/year (includes 6 
issues of Defenders magazine) from Defenders of Wildlife, 
1244 19th Street NW, Washington, DC 20036. Information 
on individual species is available to members on request. 
Animal Kingdom: Eugene Walter, Editor. $9.95/year (6 
issues) from Animal Kingdom Magazine, New York 
Zoological Park, Bronx, NY 10460. 
Endangered Animals of South Asia 
An expanding human population has confined South 
Asia’s rare mammals to scattered refuges. Efforts to 
enlarge existing sanctuaries, including those shown here, 
and to create new ones offer a note of optimism. 
Pr. —— 
Dachiga 
© Wildlife reserve 
sae 
ty 
tal 
& 
YKASHMI R 
SS 
“s-=, 
SIKKIM 
f 
se 
NEPAL. |. fee 
“> 
PAKISTAN < 
— 
y 
New Delhi 
“sri 
LANKA S.-- 
¢ The most thorough account of how we’ve accelerated the 
extinction of species. 
Extinction: Paul and Anne Ehrlich, 1981; 384 pp. $4.95 ($5.95 
postpaid) from Random House, Inc., 400 Hahn Road, West- 
minster, MD 21157 (or Whole Earth Access). 
¢ The utilitarian argument: why extinctions hurt us and 
business. 
A Wealth of Wild Species: Norman Myers, 1983; 300 pp. 
$14.50 ($17 postpaid) from Westview Press, 5500 Central 
Avenue, Boulder, CO 80301 (or Whole Earth Access). 
