The Only Investment Guide 
You'll Ever Need 
There are a lot of problems with personal investing that 
don’t meet the greedy eye but can clutter up your life. 
Andrew Tobias cuts through all of that. This book is a 
brisk, cheery compendium of highly sophisticated com- 
mon sense. The most efficient way to make money, he 
reminds right at the start, is not to spend it. As for in- 
vesting itself, he preaches a bare-bones, conservative line 
— discount brokers, no-load mutual funds, a healthy IRA 
account, and very little action. He’s got good detailed 
tricks and tips (save money in your children’s names and 
it‘ll mount tax free), but the basic strategy is simple, slow, 
wise — freeing. 
—Stewart Brand 
e 
Simple insulation may be the best ‘‘investment’’ you can 
make, returning as much as 35% or more, tax-free, in 
annual savings on heating and cooling. Why put $1,500 
into the stock of some utility and earn $150 in annual 
taxable dividends if you can put the same money into in- 
sulation and save $150 tax-free on your utility bill? 
(Check also the federal and state tax credits that may be 
available to encourage such energy-saving investment.) 
OK. You have some money in a savings bank; you have 
set up an Individual Retirement Account — and a Keogh 
Plan, if possible — and are contributing to them at the 
maximum rate allowed; you have equity in a home, if 
you want it; you’ve tied up $1,000 in bulk purchases of 
tunafish and shaving cream; you have lowered your auto 
and homeowner’s insurance premiums by increasing 
your deductibles; you have adequate term life insurance; 
you've paid off all your 18% installment loans; there is a 
little solar water heater sitting on your roof above your 
well-insulated attic; and you own enough IBM (or some 
other solid common, or even preferred, stock) to take 
full advantage of the $100 ($200) dividend tax exclu- 
sion. In short, you have done all the things that scream 
to be done. You have made the easy decisions. 
Now what? 
There are three compelling reasons to invest a portion of 
your funds in stocks. 
1. Over the long run — and it may be very long — stocks 
should outperform bonds. . 
. 
. 
2. Unlike bonds, stocks offer at least the potential of 
keeping up with inflation. 
. 
. 
. 
3. If all goes well, stocks can act as a tax shelter. 
Catalyst 
Resources for giving away or investing your money to 
good end. Catalyst is three good newsletters in one, 
devoted to three purposes: 1. helping socially-conscious 
investors; 2. helping progressive organizations and busi- 
nesses that need loans or investors; 3. linking 1 and 2. 
- 
—Art Kleiner 
What is a fair return? 
One of the first lessons | learned in business school was 
that for every risk there should be a corresponding rate 
of return. The greater the risk, the higher the return. 
Thus, one expects to earn more in the stock market than 
in a money market fund because of the higher risk. 
This formula is somewhat modified for alternative 
investing. Here, the investor is sometimes willing to 
accept a lower return to advance the social goals of the 
project. Call this a ‘‘social subsidy.’’ The amount of this 
subsidy is a personal decision of each socially conscious 
investor. Generally, if your return on a loan is more than 
3% below what a similar traditional investment would 
pay, your ‘’subsidy”’ is bordering on a charitable gift. 
CHILDREN UNDER 187 
REFERENCE 
TO MANUAL 
WHAT THIS SCREEN IS ABOUT 
(If so you will have the opportunity 
to name 6 guerdisn later in the 
progrem ) 
IF YES TYPE “Y" AND “RETURN” 
IF NO 
TYPE “N° AND “RETURN™ 
PLEASE ANSWER THE ABOVE QUESTION 
WHERE?)(17] 
Hi, 
SPECIAL OPTIONS 
DEFINITION AVAILABLE 
1 CHILDREN 
SCREEN NUMBER) 
& 
1 CHARACTER 
WillWriter 
A fertile hybrid that | expect to see more of: can-do soft- 
ware that lives inside a how-to book. In this case, the 
book itself is one of the better ones on preparing your 
own will. The will-making procedures have been made 
precisely methodical in order to please the vaguely dumb 
logic of the computer. At the same time, the software (slow 
and somewhat crude) has an articulate book to introduce 
and speak for it. It’s quick enough to think differently 
depending on what state you say you live in. The com- 
bination makes it quite painless to write or update a will. 
—Kevin Kelly 
PC/TAXCUT 
This tax prep/planner software is a great aid, if not a total 
replacement for your accountant. It does not advise, but 
it does everything else. If you need to refer to past years 
(for income averaging or credits) it directs you to the ex- 
act line of your old returns. The program is a pleasure to 
work with. You can succeed at even complex tax returns 
on your own, or take a printout with you to your tax 
appointment to greatly streamline the procedure. 
—Andrea and Daniel Sharp 
PC/ITAXCUT calculates income, deductions, credits, taxes, 
and payments; considers all the interrelationships; assesses 
the different methods of calculating taxes; determines 
which is most beneficial; then shows you the result. It prints 
virtually every one of the commonly used tax forms on 
everyday computer paper — except the 1040 long form 
which the IRS requires on their pre- 
printed form. Five 1040 
computer forms are 
supplied free with 
the program. 
PERSONAL FINANCE 
LIVELIHOOD 203 
(with software for IBM PC 
or Apple II) 
1985; 170 pp. 
$39.95 
($41.95 postpaid) from: 
Nolo Press 
950 Parker Street 
Berkeley, CA 94710 
or Whole Earth Access 
Investment Guide 
You'll Ever Need 
Andrew Tobias 
1983; 180 pp. 
$3.95 
($5.45 postpaid) from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, IL 60016 
or Whole Earth Access 
PC/TAXCUT 
1986 Version. Copy- 
protected. IBM PC/XT/AT 
and compatibles (128K). 
Street price 
$150 
List 
$1 95 from: 
Best Programs 
5134 Leesburg Pike 
Alexandria, VA 22302 
Catalyst: Investing 
in Social Change 
Susan Meeker-Lowry, Editor 
$30/vear 
(6 issues) from: 
Catalyst Newsletters 
P.O. Box 363 
Worcester, VT 05682 
