308 
Alden Todd 
1979; 123 pp. 
$3.95 
($4.95 postpaid) from: 
Ten Speed Press 
P. O. Box 7123 
Berkeley, CA 94707 
or Whole Earth Access 
The World 
Almanac 
Hana U. Lane, Editor 
$5.95 
($7.45 postpaid) from: 
World Almanac 
Publications 
Box 984 
Cincinnati, OH 45201 
or Whole Earth Access 
Answers Online 
(Your Guide to 
Informational 
Data Bases) 
Barbara Newlin 
1985; 370 pp. 
$16.95 
postpaid from: 
McGraw Hill 
Retail Center 
P. O. Box 400 
Hightstown, NJ 08520 
or Whole Earth Access 
Magazine Index 
Information free from: 
Information Access Co. 
11 Davis Drive 
Belmont, CA 94002 
COMMUNICATIONS 
LIBRARIES 
Finding Facts Fast 
Sy 
“Libraries will get you through times of no money better 
than money will get you through times of no libraries.’’ —Anne Herbert 
UST AS CHURCHES can be sanctuaries for live human bodies, libraries should be revered as 
sanctuaries for live human thoughts and feelings. Libraries also provide a free way to read any 
M book in this Catalog — if it isn’t in that branch, most libraries have excellent inter-library loan 
za 
= methods for finding just about anything (given enough time). As Anne Herbert wrote, “I’ve known 
people who would call 17 bookstores to find a book and never go down the street to the library. At the 
library, it doesn’t matter if the books are out of print. They’re there, and the price is right.” 
Three librarians helped us gather these four pages on libraries, research and reference: Steve Cisler (Pinole 
Valley), Mary Richardson (Sausalito), and Kay Roberts (Bay Area Reference Center). 
—Art Kleiner 
Finding Facts Fast 
A basic handbook for laypeople. It has beautiful two- and 
three-page descriptions of how to treat hundreds of prob- 
lems in research from very elemental to very advanced 
levels. From “‘finding the right library’’ to ‘government as 
an information source’’ to “‘oral history collections’’ and 
“obtaining out-of-print books.’’ Every time | get lost in the 
world of information | use Todd to ground me. 
—Richard Green 
Yup. Still unsurpassed after 14 years. This is where you 
learn research common sense. Also see The Independent 
Scholar's Handbook (p. 378) and The Reporter's Handbook 
(p. 105). 
—Art Kleiner 
Another starting point is with companies, organizations 
and associations, through which you can find the specialists 
who would know their own trade press. The researcher 
can then go directly to his target by asking the specialized 
craftsman, or professional, or businessman: 
‘What trade journals do you read? Which ones do your 
colleagues read? Which are your best printed sources of 
information?’ and, ‘Do you have copies of them?’’ 
The World Almanac 
When | was ten | remember being given two thick paper- 
backs: the Johnson Smith Novelty Catalog (p. 364) and 
the 1952 World Almanac. | spent a long time leafing 
through each of them, but the World Almanac had more 
staying power. Now, as a librarian, | find it one of the 
most useful reference works available. The print is a bit 
small, and the maps are just so-so. Published each No- 
vember, current through October. Use the detailed index 
in the front, or the one-page Quick Reference index in 
the back. 
—Steve Cisler 
Answers Online 
Deep specialization sometimes requires deep research. 
The very deepest these days takes place via computer 
network and modem. Instead of plowing for hours through 
reference books, you dial into the bowels of highly ex- 
clusive data banks, where they charge by the second and 
no one can afford to browse. Thus, you must carefully 
narrow down your focus before you ever turn on your 
computer terminal. This book tells how to do it, when to 
do it, what to look for, and when to go to the library 
instead. 
—Art Kleiner 
Magazine Index (on Microfilm) 
By far the best index for finding magazine articles is this 
self-contained microfilm display available for use in most 
libraries. It’s the size of a regular microfiche reader but 
with only one filmstrip roll, which the libraries update 
monthly or bimonthly. Unlike the Reader's Guide to Peri- 
odical Literature, it’s a one-stop magazine index — you 
don’t have to keep going from volume to volume. It in- 
dexes 400 magazines back six years, with supplements 
on fiche going back to 1977. 
—KK 
Library Journal 
Simply the best periodical for books in America. Best 
reviews, widest coverage, least nonsense. To stay current 
in any field I’d call it essential. 
—Stewart Brand 
e 
Van Doren, Charles: The Joy of Reading. 
Veteran critic and editor Van Doren offers the fruits 
of decades as a constant reader. Speaking directly to 
general readers, he aims to bestow the same gift he 
received from his father, poet Mark Van Doren: “’to be 
acquainted with all kinds of books and not to be afraid 
of or reluctant to try to read any particular kind.’’ His 
210 selections for discussion are unabashedly personal, 
ranging across centuries, subjects, and genres. All, from 
the Orestia to Charlotte’s Web, are books he loves and 
rereads, in which ‘the author has something important 
to say about something important.’’ 
—Starr E. Smith, 
Georgetown Univ. Lib., Washington, D.C. 
Science Books & Films 
e Current Contents 
For keeping up with the flow of scientific verbiage. Cur- 
rent Contents is, in Kevin Kelly’s words, ‘‘nothing more 
than the reproduced tables of contents from the several 
thousand best scientific journals. The scientists | know use 
it for connecting with the 200 papers that will do them 
any good, while weeding out the thousands of redundant 
ones and the other million or so that have nothing to do 
with them.’’ Science Books & Films, from the publishers of 
Science (p. 26), reviews new science-oriented books and 
films, right on down to a kindergarten age level, with high 
standards and gritty detail. 
—Art Kleiner 
[Suggested by Kevin Kelly and John Lord] 
de DUVE, CHRISTIAN. A Guided Tour of the Living Cell, 
Vols. 1 & 2. (Illus. by Neil O. Hardy.) NY: Scientific 
American Books (dist. by Freeman), 1985. 
. 
. 
. Although somewhat expensive, the contents of this 
two-volume set make it a bargain. If public and academic 
libraries can purchase only one cell biology book for the 
year, they could not make a better choice. 
—James C. 
McDonald, Wake Forest Univ., Winston-Salem, NC 
—Science Books & Films 
Yellow Pages 
No reference book matches the practical currency of the 
Yellow Pages in your local telephone directory. On any 
subject you can browse, call, inquire, ask who else would 
have information, and proceed to the heart of any matter. 
—Stewart Brand 
Once a year | check out a Manhattan Yellow Pages (now 
available in two editions: the New York County Business- 
to-Business Directory and the Manhattan Consumer Yellow 
Pages) from the local university library. They contain whole 
categories not found in local Yellow Pages. 
—JB 
You can order any far-flung phone book through your 
local phone company business office. 
—Art Kleiner 
