3 i 6 COMMUNICATIONS 
DESKTOP PUBLISHING 
Personal 
Publishing 
Terry Ulick, Editor 
$30/year 
(12 issues) from: 
Personal Publishing 
P. O. Box 390 
Itasca, IL 60143 
PageMaker 
Version 1.2. 
Copy-protected. 
$495 
Macintosh external disk 
drive required; hard disk 
recommended. 
Information free from: 
Aldus Corporation 
All First Avenue, Suite 200 
Seattle, WA 98104. 
What you see on the 
Macintosh screen is not 
always what Is finally 
printed out. Shown here are 
column guides which help 
shape the columns of type 
but do not print themselves. 
The headline and body copy 
look somewhat crude 
onscreen, but are later 
tightened up by the 
POSTSCRIPT language 
embedded in the 
LaserWriter printer. 
@ File 
Edit 
Tools 
Page 
Type 
Lines 
Shades 
See. ESKTOP PUBLISHING — using a personal computer to write, typeset, design and publish a 
pss . newsletter, magazine, or book — represents a tremendous advantage for small publishers. Tasks 
me. that used to take a handful of specialists days have been compressed into page-makeup pro- 
Rt. 
ee 
se 8 
SFORRRR 
~ orams that enable a jack-of-all-trades publisher to directly control the whole process. For the 
megalomaniacs among us this is indeed good news. However, it is a mixed blessing for everyone else. 
For example, desktop publishing plays havoc with clearcut job descriptions. Once you have a single software 
program that lets you specify page layout formats, choose typefaces and point sizes, “pour in” word pro- 
cessed copy, and manipulate illustrations in quick succession, you have a program which practically begs for 
a new breed of multi-talented publishing workers. Where does this leave the editor who can’t design, the art 
" 
@ File 
Edit 
Tools 
Page 
Type 
Lines 
Shades 
director who can’t spell, or the typesetter who merely wants to typeset? Good question. 
At this juncture, the tools for desktop publishing seem best suited to modest tasks such as producing an 
8-page newsletter or knocking out an ad sheet or flyer in a day’s time. Full-scale book or magazine 
publishing on your PC can be done; it is still likely to call for more skills than most single humans possess. 
Desktop publishing is about efficiently chewing what you’ve already bitten off, not about using your com- 
puter to bite off more than you can sanely chew. 
—Jay Kinney 
PageMaker 
This software program used in conjunction with a Macintosh 
has my vote for the best hardware/software combo for 
desktop publishing. While there are several other compe- 
ting programs available (some geared for the IBM PC), 
there are none with the intuitive design and ease of use 
that PageMaker provides. Earlier versions of this program 
had a tendency to freeze up or bomb out at unexpected 
moments, but most of those bugs have been ironed out by 
now. If you are considering publishing you should 
investigate PageMaker. 
—Jay Kinney 
== 
= lev 
PageM = 
Getting rr the Heart 
of the Matter with 
Cellular Automata * 
by Serves Levy 
OMETIMES DURING LONG PHONE 
=} 
eonversations, | will swreptitiowsly 
flick on | 
my Macintosh and load in a program called 
}2 toot Steven Levy's 
imepor 
Lat, The sereea will explode with patterns 
| 
cot Meaters to oryrtalice the role of 
formed Dy Leche dots. At 
Cirst chere are many | 
dots, and they move around, disappear 
and 
reappesr with explosive kineticism. 
Thea, 
| 
dy some 
odd form of attrition, 
the dots 
ie 
become (ewer; some form hardened patterns, } 
Levy PageM 2 
tape i 
—— 
eadaiaes 
Personal Publishing 
This monthly magazine is geared to those who are just 
starting out in desktop publishing and is strong on 
explaining and illustrating the fundamentals of the field. 
Almost entirely staff-written, the magazine is opinionated, 
partisan (it favors the Mac over any other PC), and 
inspirational. It’s a Macintosh and LaserWriter production 
— one of the handsomest such publications I’ve seen. 
—Jay Kinney 
TEXT INTO TYPE 
TEXT INTO TYPE 
Illustration Number 7. A banner for the text is started. A 
simple rectangle is chosen for type, because in MacDraw 
you can not arch type. The rectangle is filled with white, 
given a black rule, and filled with upper case Times Roman 
type. The positioning of the rectangle is important. Any 
lower, and it would look funny, but any higher, it would 
cover up the serifs. 
TEXT INTO TYPE 
Illustration Number 9. The left “tail” of the banner is 
copied, then pasted on the right side of the banner. Here, the 
logo takes on its final shape. The arrow, the “V” and the 
banner are all in place. All that is left is detail work. 
Ilustration Number 11. The last element is placed: The type 
that will identify the number of the article. Here, the cover 
version is created, with the word VICTORY in place of a 
number. Notice the type is light, and extra spaces have been 
added between the letters. 
Illustration Number 8. To create a banner effect, it is 
imagined that the rectangle is part of “ribbon” that bends and 
has dimension. This makes the lettering appear to be on a 
long banner that is raised above the “V” where needed. This 
is a standard graphic device, found in many illustrations and 
older type treatments. 
Illustration Number 10. Detail work consists of giving the 
simple black and white elements some shading. This is 
important to give the feeling of the banner floating above 
the “V” and having a 3-dimensional quality. MacDraw 
polygons are created and filled with line pattems. 
Illustration Number 12. The final logo. A heavy rule has 
been added beneath the word VICTORY for emphasis and for 
added detail. The finished logo has all of the elements we 
wanted, put together very effectively and in a very short time 
using the power of a drawing program such as MacDraw or 
GEM Draw. 
e As we go to press, PC World Communications, Inc., has 
announced another magazine on desktop publishing to be 
called Publish! Judging from their other publications, this 
one will bear watching! 
PAGEMAKER allows views of page layouts at several sizes: 50% (as above), 70%, actual 
size, 200%, and a “’fit in window” size. Type can be continued from column to column and 
page to page by clicking the mouse on the tab at the foot of a column of type. 
