Bear’s Guide to 
Finding Money For College 
We have two major self-esteem rites-of-passage in our 
culture, and a good book for each. What the indispen- 
sable What Color Is Your Parachute (see p. 187) does for 
landing a job, this does for landing an education. 
It’s about how to approach the financing of your learning 
as creatively as you choose what to learn. The book wise- 
ly counsels not paying so much in the first place (even Ivy 
League schools will bargain on tuition if you don’t call it 
that), and provides excellent, clever, unconventional means 
of digging up what money you do need. Use these 
strategies for any kind of degree. 
—Kevin Kelly 
Thousands of corporations have programs in which they 
will pay for all or part of their employees’ school ex- 
penses. Based on what the corporations say they would 
have done, over six billion dollars in tuition and fee reim- 
bursement 
goes unclaimed each year, simply because no 
one asked for it. This is partly because school-attending 
employees were unaware of the reimbursement plan, 
and partly because not enough employees chose to 
attend school in their spare time. 
Some schools encourage currently enrolled students or 
alumni to help promote the school to others in their com- 
munity, business, etc. For each student who enrolls as a 
result of their efforts, they are paid a fee or commission, 
which can range from just a few dollars to many hun- 
dreds of dollars. Many students have been able to 
reduce their own tuitions to zero by this method. 
Wishcraft 
The obstacles which held up my life always seemed to be 
mysterious, invisible things — ghosts. The spell for release 
is in two parts: 1) The wish. Trying to change yourself and 
trying to deny yourself are equally futile. The only power 
that will ever make you really go comes from your own 
deep wishes, interests, and desires. 2) The craft. If you 
don’t have practical techniques: for problem-solving, 
planning, getting your hands on information and con- 
tacts; for coping with human feelings that aren’t going to 
go away; for getting the emotional support risk-taking re- 
quires; and for figuring out what your wishes really are, 
your desires will dissipate like steam without an engine. 
So, with the lessons of Wisheraft, no more ghosts. Real 
wishes. Real problems. Real solutions. Real changes. 
—David Finacom 
It’s a common assumption that if you really try your 
hardest to get something and don’t get it, you'll be 
shattered — so it’s safer not to risk going all out. That 
is totally false. The exact opposite is true. . 
. 
. You never 
feel really bad when you’ve given something your best 
shot. You may be disappointed, but you don’t blame 
yourself. But if you haven’t given it your best shot, you 
feel terrible. Because you never really know whether you 
could have done better . . 
. but you do know you could 
have done more. Win or lose, all-out efforts leave you 
feeling clean and good about yourself. 
SSS 
LSS STE FE ERE NE EES DE TD IO SDDS ES OEP EID 
¢ For superb career guidance see What Color Is Your 
Parachute? (p. 187). 
¢ See also ‘‘Adventure Travel’ (p. 258) for life-changing 
learning. 
LIFELONG LEARNING 
Non-Traditional College Degrees 
Education and accreditation have parted ways. For job 
opportunity, get some easy degrees. For an interesting 
life, get some hard education. | can see good argu- 
ment for getting them separately — you don’t cross 
your purposes or narrow your possibilities so much. This 
intelligent, practical book will tutor you in the non- 
traditional course. 
—Stewart Brand 
r 
The philosophy behind ‘‘credit for life experience’ can 
be expressed very simply: Academic credit is given for 
what you know, without regard for how, when, or where 
the learning was acquired. . 
. 
. 
The most common error people make when thinking 
about getting credit for life experience is to confuse time 
spent with learning. Being a regular church-goer for thir- 
ty years is not worth any college credit, in and of itself. 
But the regular church-goer who can document that he 
or she has taught Sunday school classes, worked with 
youth groups, participated in leadership programs, 
organized community drives, studied Latin or Greek, 
taken tours to the Holy Land, or engaged in lengthy 
philosophical discussions with a clergyman, is likely to 
get credit for those experiences. 
In my counseling practice, | regularly hear from people 
who are distressed, often devastated, to have discovered 
that some project on which they have been working for 
many months was really not what their faculty advisor or 
hemp had in mind, so they are getting little or no credit 
or it. 
Indeed, | went through a similar sort of event myself. 
After | had worked nearly two years on my Doctorate, 
one key member of my faculty guidance committee died, 
and a second transferred to another school. No one else 
on the faculty seemed interested in working with me, and 
without a binding agreement of any sort, there was no 
way | could make it happen. | simply dropped out. 
Young Person’s Guide 
To Military Service 
Historically, a stint in the military has held fascination for 
brute and poet alike. To serve or not isn’t an easy ques- 
tion and never has been. This book won’t help you much 
with the moral aspects, but it does a fair job of helping 
you decide which service branch to join and what life will 
be like there. It’s not like in the movies. 
—JB 
Unlike in the Navy, where women are barred from 
serving on combat vessels, it is possible for women in 
the Coast Guard to serve on or even command the 
largest ships. 
How do you feel about nuclear weapons? Would you be 
comfortable working in a missile silo or servicing a B-52 
that carries nuclear bombs? You might be willing to de- 
fend the United States, but how would you feel about 
fighting insurgents in Central America? If you served in a 
National Guard unit, would you have any objection to 
halting a riot in an American city? Or protecting 
strikebreakers in a labor dispute? 
Young Person’s 
Guide to 
10.20 
toaid) from: 
Military Service 
pie ec poe agree 
Jeff Bradley 
9 East 40th Street 
1983; 175 pp. 
New York, NY 10016 
$8.95 
~ or Whole Earth Access 
LEARNING 379 
Bear’s Guide to 
Finding 
Money 
For College 
John Bear, Ph.D. 
1984; 157 pp. 
$5.95 
($6.95 postpaid) 
Bear’s Guide to 
Non-Traditional 
College Degrees 
John Bear, Ph.D. 
1985; 265 pp. 
$9.95 
($10.95 postpaid) 
both from: 
Ten Speed Press 
P. O. Box 7123 
Berkeley, CA 94707 
or Whole Earth Access 
Wishcraft 
Barbara Sher 
with Annie Gottlieb 
1979; 278 pp. 
$6.95 
($7.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
Order Dept. 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
