LEARNING 
358 
Whole Child, 
Whole Parent 
Polly Berrien Berends 
1983; 360 pp. 
$10.95 
($12.45 postpaid) from: 
Harper and Row 
2350 Virginia Avenue 
Hagerstown, MD 21740 
or Whole Earth Access 
Creative Parenting 
William Sears, M.D. 
1982; 512 pp. 
$10.95 
($12.45 postpaid) from: 
Dodd, Meade and Co. 
P. O. Box 141000 
Nashville, TN 37214 
or Whole Earth Access 
How To Talk So 
Kids Will Listen 
& Listen So Kids 
Will Talk 
Adele Faber 
and Elaine Mazlish 
1980; 242 pp. 
$5.95 
($6.95 postpaid) from: 
Avon Books 
P. O. Box 767 
Dresden, TN 38225 
or Whole Earth Access 
PARENTING 
Whole Child, Whole Parent 
| read the original version of this classic spiritual and 
practical guide to parenting during a panic period when 
my first child was one year old. It helped me regain the 
larger purpose of my mothering and gave me practical 
ways for putting my ideals into practice. I’ve been 
dipping into it ever since. 
| especially love the book suggestions; this book alone 
helped me choose books for my first child. 
—Peggy O’Mara McMahon 
Choosing what toys to buy is a small matter compared 
with the overall task of discerning from moment to mo- 
ment how to respond to our children in an intelligently 
loving way. When buying a toy seems called for, here 
are some things to consider: 
. . 
. 
Toys to avoid. 
Terrific but too temporary. Some beautiful, well-made, 
and educationally sound toys that are valuable in a 
preschool may be almost worthless at home because the 
child learns what they offer in a few minutes. At least in 
the beginning, children are not interested in the having 
of toys (possessiveness is acquired), but in what they can 
learn from them. As soon as the child has learned all he 
can from a toy, he will lose interest in it. If he can learn 
everything in one sitting, he will be through in one sit- 
ting. Glenn Doman estimates that the average toy 
designed for the average eighteen-month-old holds 
interest for about 90 seconds. ... 
Birth & Life Bookstore 
Hundreds, no thousands, of in-print books on children, 
birthing, adoption, toilet training, and so on. They stock 
nine books alone on the topic of twins. Longish, detailed 
reviews fill the front of their newsletter/catalog evaluating 
the latest mothering/fathering/babying books. They are 
far more up to date than we could ever be. —Kevin Kelly 
7001 Alonzo Avenue NW 
P. O. Box 70625 
Seattle, WA 98107-0625 
Imprints 
Catalog free from: 
Birth & Life Bookstore 
Rectal 
temperature. 
Creative Parenting 
| usually don’t recommend comprehensive “baby books*’ 
because reading the book can imply a tacit agreement 
that the author is the expert and the parent is not. Since | 
believe that the parents are the experts, it is good to have 
the welcome voice of Dr. Sears, who is a father of five and 
brings his personal experience to the ideas he discusses in 
the book. Topics covered are thorough: pregnancy, birth, 
early time of parenting, the newborn, father feelings, in- 
fant feeding and nutrition, fussy baby, sleep habits, 
mother-baby separation, developmental stages, common 
childhood illnesses, child safety and first aid, and special 
situations. Creative Parenting will help you regain your 
perspective as parents with wisdom and practicality. 
—Peggy O’Mara McMahon 
Adolescents are themselves going through an identity 
crisis, and are particularly vulnerable to the effects of a 
divorce. The adolescent can think abstractly and is even 
more prone to fantasize about marriage in general. The 
adolescent may become very judgmental about who is 
at fault and may wonder what kind of people his parents 
are. The behavioral problems of the adolescent are more 
likely to involve his peer relationships and minor delin- 
quencies. Sexual gratification and sudden love affairs 
may occur. Adolescents are particularly judgmental 
about the possible sexual activities of the parents, and 
both the mother and the visiting father should exercise 
some discretion about their sexual pursuits. Do not count 
upon your adolescents to welcome a household free of 
marriage conflicts and tensions because, unless there has 
been excessive physical violence during the marriage, 
children do not usually view divorce as something which 
improves the family situation. 
How To Talk So Kids 
Will Listen & Listen 
So Kids Will Talk 
Reading Adele Faber and Elaine 
Mazlish’s first book (Liberated 
Parents /Liberated Children) 
changed my life. It was the first 
time | read about accepting and 
speaking from feelings. It took the 
idea of personal responsibility 
and translated it into action. How 
to Talk makes the information 
about accepting feelings, talking 
about feelings, engaging cooper- 
ation, alternatives to punishment, 
encouraging autonomy, praise, 
and freeing children from playing 
roles accessible through its liberal 
use of cartoons, and realistic 
dialogue. All of these ideas do 
much to help our children attain a 
positive self-image and to reduce 
disharmony in the home. This is 
tangible stuff you can read and 
use. 
—Peggy O’Mara McMahon 
Instead of 
oU'Te So irresponsible. ¥ 
OMWAYS Start Ye eh and 
+ren 
1 
Instead of 
It’s hard to do what needs to be done when people 
are telling you what's wrong with you. 
Whe drank milk and left 
+e bottle, Standing Our ? 
I. DESCRIBE. 
Describe what you see or describe the problem. 
It's easier to concentrate on the problem when 
someone just describes it to you. 
Il. GIVE INFORMATION. 
Give information 
Information is a lot easier to take than accusation. 
