—Mammals of the American North 
* 3H ROM POLAR BEAR TO caribou, the far north is a land of wanderers. Sometimes seal, after 
ies fishing, wander onto ice floes and meet wandering bears. The frozen Arctic, at times like these, is ey 
* hardly connected to the land. But a bit south of the permanent ice and snow, where maybe eight 
inches of soil thaw each year, the first lichens and mosses, then sedges and grasses beneficiently 
Harp seal pup. 
feed the caribou. This is the tundra. It always has permafrost, and when it freezes to the surface or gets 
covered in snow, the caribou head inland and south to the first scraggy trees (the taiga) and, in extreme 
years, to the thick forests (the boreal forest of spruce and hemlock). As they travel, the wolves go with 
them. When they reach their southern limit, they encounter their first close relative, the moose. Today, 
meat-eating remains; snow mobiles replace sleds; and oil drilling and cash replace starvation. TV, story- 
telling, and carving still fill the long night. 
—Peter Warshall 
James Ruben, bringing back meat from Brock River. —Inuit 
The spring silence is broken by pistol reports of cracking 
on the river, and then the sound of breaking branches 
and the whining pop of a falling tree as the careening 
blocks of ice gouge the riverbanks. A related but far 
eerier phenomenon occurs in the coastal ice. Suddenly in 
the middle of winter and without warning a huge piece 
of sea ice surges hundreds of feet inland, like something 
alive. The Eskimo call it ivu. The silent arrival of caribou 
in an otherwise empty landscape is another example. 
The long wait at a seal hole for prey to surface. Waiting 
for a lead to close. The Eskimo have a word for this kind 
of long waiting, prepared for a sudden event; quinuituq. 
Deep patience. 
—Arctic Dreams 
Arctic Dreams 
Arctic Dreams is the first lyric, philosophical reflection on 
the far north and its history of human visions. It is a quest 
for essences in a frozen, beautiful land. Inuit solidifies 
tundra/seashore dreams into images of the everyday life 
of the Inuit people. Honest as hard ice. Between tundra, 
taiga, and boreal forest, the celebration of bioregions 
becomes more jovial. Farley Mowatt knows it best; his 
Never Cry Wolf and People of the Deer are the best bed- 
time boreal travel. Coming Into the Country by John 
McPhee is a journalistic musing on the new Alaska with 
drop-out trappers and boreal borracho. Robert Service's 
poetry and Jack London’s Call of the Wild are the 
classics. 
—Peter Warshall 
Arctic Dreams: Barry Lopez, 1986; 464 pp. $22.95 postpaid 
from Macmillan Publishing Co./Order Dept., Front and 
Brown Streets, Riverside, NJ 08075 (or Whole Earth Access). 
[Suggested by Wendell Berry] 
Inuit: Ulli Steltzer, 1982; 216 pp. $22.50 postpaid from 
University of Chicago Press, 11030 South Langley Avenue, 
Chicago, IL 60628 (or Whole Earth Access). 
Never Cry Wolf: Farley Mowat, 1973; 164 pp. $2.95 
($4.45 postpaid). 
People of the Deer: Farley Mowat, 1975; 287 pp. $3.50 
($5 postpaid). 
Call of the Wild: Jack London, 1903; 101 pp. $2.25 
($3.75 postpaid). 
Coming Into the Country: John McPhee, 1977; 
417 pp. $4.95 ($6.45 postpaid). 
All from Bantam Books, 414 East Golf Road, Des Plaines, IL 
60016 (or Whole Earth Access). 
Natural History 
Audubon’s Eastern Forests (see p. 50) is the best intro- 
ductory field guide to the forests of the far north. Volumes 
five and six (Arctic, Subarctic) of the Smithsonian series 
Handbook of North American Indians (see p. 56) present 
the most encyclopedic and complete bioregional under- 
standing. One hundred and fifty species are covered in 
Mammals of the American North, a coffee-table-size 
book of beautiful color photography and writing that em- 
phasizes human interconnectedness with animals in this 
harsh environment. 
—Peter Warshall 
Mammals of the American North: Adrian Forsyth, 1985; 351] 
pp. $29.95 ($30.95 postpaid) from Firefly Books Ltd., 3520 
Pharmacy Avenue, Unit 1-C, Scarborough, Ontario, Canada 
MIW 2T8 (or Whole Earth Access). 
< 
Making a sledge at Pelly Bay. Driftwood was rare so 
wooden sledges were not common. Runners were made 
from frozen fish wrapped in sealskin with caribou antler 
pieces tied as crossbars with sealskin lines. A sludge of 
pulverized moss and water was then put on the under- 
side of the runner in a thick coat, frozen, coated with 
ice, and rubbed with wet polar bear fur to produce a 
hard, resistant coat of ice that allowed the sledge to 
run smoothly. 
—Handbook of North American Indians 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
BOREAL FORESTS 
Qe 
9 
rae" 
> 
\ 
rss 
ae A 
BN You LE 
ATS 
\ 
‘ 
er 
Tundra 
[ 
oSf: ; Spruce-fir forest 
Wooden maps. (Left) Rep- 
resentation of the coast 
between Kangersuttuas- 
siaq and Sieralik; (Center) 
Islands off the coastline 
shown on the map at left; 
(Right) Representation of 
the peninsulas between 
Kangersuttuassiaq and Ser- 
miligaaq. Carved by Kunit 
from Umiivik. Length of left 
14.2 cm; rest same scale. 
—Handbook of North 
American Indians 
47 
