‘The Cripple Liberation Front 
_ 
Marching Band Blues 
describes the author’s experience with polio, hospitals, 
| 
rehabilitation, and his efforts to live independently. There 
is a great deal of pain in this book, the pain inherent in 
| 
the sudden onset of disability. Tough, realistic, and de- 
cidedly unsentimental, it is also often tender, wise, and 
hilarious in its account of disability. Honest to the bone, it 
is the best written book on how it feels to be disabled. 
—Mark O’Brien 
@ 
| 
He was brave, that Roosevelt. O Lordy he was brave. He 
The Disability Rag 
The Rag conveys the opinions and the politics of disabled 
people with vigor and clarity. It deals with the nitty-gritty 
of disability — attendants, accessible buses, and employ- 
ing a reader. The Rag also addresses the fear and anger 
disabled people feel about living in a world that sees us 
in stereotypical terms. This is a tough, scrappy, honest 
magazine, without advertising. 
—Mark O’Brien 
e 
A counselor’s phone rings. The nurse at a local hospital 
| 
maternity unit wants to put her in touch with the parents 
Hugh Herr’s legs were amputated as a result of frostbite 
suffered during an ice climbing accident. Now he climbs 
using a selection of prosthetic legs and feet. 
—Climbing Magazine (see p. 276). 
ETTORE TE 
IIE ETDS TEI DS LETS IE LID IES SLE EIDE LIDS EL EE DLE CEI LEA 
} 
e See National Gardening Association (p. 77) for tools for 
disabled gardeners. 
Not a how-to book so much as a what-it’s-like book that 
must have known that he would never be whole, but he 
was brave. A clear-cut nothing-from-the-waist-down case, 
and yet he forced himself to walk. With steel and fire, he 
forced his arms to take him across the room, across the 
lawn, down the steps. He knew, some part of him knew 
he would never be walking at the head of the Labor Day 
parade again, but he kept on pouring his will into what 
was left of his muscles, trying to walk that walk again. 
He put on his twenty-pound steel braces, and sweating 
and puffing, demanded of his body that it produce steps 
for him. There were none there; yet he created them from 
somewhere. From his burning will he created whole steps 
where there should have been none. 
a 
EIR 
ELT EI EET EEO TSE 
SETI, ST ELE DLE LEE LE TELE EL 
LLY SLED 
SSDI SB EID TE EDEL 
DE LEELA DE IS OER EL 
of a new baby. A difficult birth has caused neurological 
distress for the child; she might have cerebral palsy. 
When the parents arrive at her office, the counselor 
meets them at the door and leads them to comfortable 
chairs. She lays her crutches beneath her chair and scoots 
back into her chair in short, pushed bursts of movement. 
The parents, startled, are obviously ill at ease. 
After forced introductions and stiff, nervous chatter, the 
counselor, to jolt the parents into confronting their own 
negative feelings, bluntly asks, ‘You weren't expecting a 
cripple for a counselor, were you?”’ 
Resources for 
Independent Living 
by Mark O’Brien 
Access to the World 
Tells disabled people everything they need to know 
about travel. 
Access to the World (A Travel Guide for the Handicapped): 
Louise Weiss, 1983; 221 pp. $14.95 postpaid from Facts on 
File, Inc., 460 Park Avenue South, New York, NY 10016 
(or Whole Earth Access). 
Design for Independent Living 
Through photos and interviews, this book shows that 
disabled people can live well outside of hospitals and 
institutions. 
Design for Independent Living: Raymond Lischez and Barbara 
Winslow, 1981; 208 pp. $9.95 ($11.45 postpaid) from Uni- 
versity of California Press, 2120 Berkeley Way, Berkeley, CA 
94720 (or Whole Earth Access). 
World Institute on Disability 
A place to find out about independent living centers near 
you, either in North America or abroad. 
World Institute on Disability: information free from 1720 
Oregon Street/Suite 4, Berkeley, CA 94703. 
Disability Rights Education 
and Defense Fund 
| was almost kept out of graduate school once because 
| was disabled. DREDF helped me realize | had a case. 
A lobbying and litigation group, they are the first place 
to go if you think you may be a victim of discrimination. 
Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund: information 
free from 2212 6th Street, Berkeley, CA 94710. 
DISABLED 
HEALTH 213 
The Cripple 
Liberation Front 
Marching Band 
Blues 
Lorenzo Wilson Milam 
1984; 220 pp. 
$9.95 
($11.45 postpaid) from: 
Mho & Mho Works 
P. O. Box 33135 
San Diego, CA 92103 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Disability Rag 
Mary Johnson, Editor 
$9iyear 
(6 issues) from: 
The Disability Rag 
P. O. Box 145 
Louisville, KY 40201 
—Design for 
Independent Living 
