We All Live Downstream 
From the karst (limestone) watersheds of Eureka Springs 
comes the most radical support for waterless toilets. 
Plagued by underground pollution, The Water Center 
has produced the only in-print book surveying dry toilets 
— from commercial varieties to home-grown; from in- 
colets to moulder (cold, slow compost) varieties. | would 
like more about dry toilet headaches: flies, shock loading, 
maintenance, installation, quality of final compost. 
But there is no better access. 
Downstream also surveys greywater systems and 
community water politics, knowing full well that water 
connects and our feces are but fine fertilizers for future 
food. An impressive, populist production. 
—Peter Warshall 
e 
Ultra-One/G-Eljer: Concept: Uses one gallon of water to 
flush without any additional systems. Permanently installed 
reservoir meters one gallon of water from the tank to the 
bowl and maintains a high static head of water. 
Requirements: Standard plumbing. Fast, easy installation. 
Operation: Same as conventional toilet. Models: Con- 
temporary look; fashion colors. Cost: Same as any top- 
of-the-line conventional two-piece toilet. Available: From 
any Eljer dealer or plumbing supply store. 
Septic Tank Practices 
A modest title for a book that clearly lays out aspects of 
various types of on-site sewage treatment and their rela- 
tionship to soil, water use, construction, maintenance, 
and politics. Written by a brilliant biologist who has 
integrated theory with a practical hands-on approach. 
—Sim VanDerRyn 
This book is wonderful — outrageous and authoritative 
simultaneously. 
—SB 
TS ~ 
Wet 
The septic-tank system actually has two distinct sections: 
the septic tank itself and the drainfield. The tank is a box 
that eliminates at least half the excrement by allowing 
time for solids to settle and be eaten by microbes. The 
wastewater then passes into a hole in the ground. The 
hole can be of almost any shape and depth. The most 
common shape is a linear trench usually between three 
and six feet deep. This trench design is called the drain- 
field (or leachfield, filterfield, absorption bed, disposal 
or subirrigation field). The wastewater from the septic 
tank receives further treatment in the drainfield. The soil 
absorbs viruses, strains out bacteria, filters large wastes, 
and chemically renovates them into nutrients that can be 
used by plants. Treatment is reliable for the lifespan of 
the drainfield. 
ST 
EOE I 
I RB BOT 
TE 
e For recycling urban wastes to the farms, see Future Water 
(p. 36). Other water concerns are discussed on p. 34. For 
Third World- style privies and waste disposal, read Excreta 
Disposal for Rural Areas and Small Communities: E. G. 
Wagner and J. N. Lanoi, 1958; 187 pp. $14 ($15.25 
postpaid) from WHO Publications, 49 Sheridan Avenue, 
Albany, NY 12210. For recycling household garbage, see 
p. 106. For plumbing see p. 129. 
Finally, the Big Sewer works against American freedom 
of choice. If a sewer runs by your house, you must hook 
up to it and pay the costs. In other words, you are not 
allowed to keep your home-site system, with all its ad- 
vantages — even if it’s working beautifully. This loss of 
option is killing the old American sense of self-reliance 
and responsibility. Undoubtedly, some backwoods Ben- 
jamin Franklin, unimpressed by the language of city- 
educated sewage experts, will soon stand up and say, 
“| won’t.”” It will be a fine American court battle. 
Raising Water 
Electric pump sets (as, for instance, from Sears) aren’t the 
only way to move water uphill. You can pump water with 
the sun, utilizing photovoltaic panels and matching pumps 
available from any of the suppliers on p. 133. Then there’s 
the old standby, the hand pump. They’re available from 
Baker. Some models can mate with windmills, such as the 
traditional models from Heller-Aller and Dempster. If you 
want to raise water from a moving stream, a ram will do 
the job, incessantly (and noisily), without any power source 
other than the stream itself. They’re available from Rife. A 
silent but more expensive water-powered water pump will 
lift efficiently from a flow as little as one quart a minute, 
from High Lifter. 
—Peter Warshall 
Dempster Industries: catalog free from Box 848, Beatrice, 
NE 68310. 
Heller-Aller Co.: information $1.50 from Corner — Perry and 
Oakwood, Napoleon, OH 43545. 
Baker Manufacturing: catalog free from Evansville, WI 
Spe excley 
Rife Hydraulic Engines: catalog $2 from Box 790, Norris- 
town, PA 19404. 
High Lifter Water Systems: information free from P. O. Box 
397, Willits, CA 95490. 
High Lifter water-powered water pump. 
WATER USE 
HOUSEHOLD 
139 
We Ali Live 
Downstream 
Pat Costner with Glenna 
Booth and Holly Gettings 
1986; 92 pp. 
$6 
($7.50 postpaid) from: 
The Water Center 
P. O. Box 548 
Eureka Springs, AR 72632 
or Whole Earth Access 
Septic Tank 
Practices 
Peter Warshall 
1979; 177 pp. 
$4.95 
($6.95 postpaid) 
Only from: 
Whole Earth Access 
Hand Lift Pump Stands are 
recommended for shallow 
well installations. This Hand 
Lift Pump comes with an 
angle iron brace, multi- 
position cap and siphon 
spout. 
—Baker 
