Ss Tt Uu Vw Ww Xx Yy Zz 012 34567 
8 § 
Oo Pp Qq Rr Ss Tt Uu Vy Ww Xx Yy Zz 
nan. nan. nin NM NWN. NWN. NAN N4n NZ 
that handwriting practice should be handwriting prac- 
tice, not poetry-composing time or puzzle-solving time. 
If the learner has to concentrate on language arts at the 
same time as practicing his handwriting, obviously his 
task will be complicated. As they say, ‘Handwriting 
class should be to teach ‘how’ to write so the rest of the 
day may be used to teach ‘what’ to writé.’” The method 
is over a hundred years old, and is still the company’s 
only product. The handwriting produced is a very lovely 
cursive hand. Students are encouraged to cleave to the 
norm rather than to invent their own style. Workbooks 
are less than $3 in all grades, and teacher’s editions are 
under $10. 
e@ 
Along with traditional and classic schooling, ‘‘unschool- 
ing’’ is one of the most popular home school formats. To 
avoid confusion, | should mention that the word ‘’un- 
schooling’ is used for two separate things. Some people 
refer to the act of removing one’s children from the 
schools, or refusing to enroll them, as ‘’unschooling.”’ 
But ‘‘unschooling’’ also describes a very popular home 
schooling philosophy: that children learn better from 
doing real things than made-up exercises. 
Home School Journal. Warren Rushton, editor. Free. Dona- 
tions are requested; $18/year meets printing costs. 
Coming at you directly from the People’s Republic of 
Nebraska, this ‘Magazine of Christian Conviction’’ is 
a folksy, grass-roots effort. Written by real, live home 
schoolers, it’s a cut above the usual state newsletter, 
but not on a par (professionally) with the best national 
magazines except for the legal reporting, which is the 
best I’ve seen. Straight from the trenches, the Journal is 
a war journal of little folk against the Establishment, of 
Christians versus lions, full of fighting spirit, and thus not 
as spiffy and manicured as a peacetime production. 
Growing Without Schooling ¢ John Holt’s Book and Music Store 
Growing Without Schooling is a newsletter begun by 
John Holt about not sending children to school. Letters 
from people who are doing it, advice about what to do 
and not do with kids at home, the latest legal news, and 
a directory of unschoolers. The Book and Music Store is a 
mail order catalog of books and tools for younger and 
older children, parents, and educators. 
—Anne Herbert 
QUADRO CONSTRUCTION SETS. 
Each set con- 
tains difterent 
lengths of plastic pipes and a 
large variety of corner pieces, plus square 
panels that can be inserted to create walls, 
floors, slides, seats, etc. The finished 
models will support up to 220 Ibs. The sets 
come with instructions for building all sorts 
of structures: 
houses, slides, parallel bars, 
tunnels, shelves, tables and chairs, beds; 
all 
kinds of climbing structures and frames. 
e 
By Herge: Popular cartoon adventures of a resourceful 
boy detective. Great mixture of slapstick and suspense. 
More actual reading than many children’s books. 
Black Island 
$5.95 
The Calculus Affair 
$5.25 
The Castafiore Emerald 
$5.95 
Cigars of the Pharoahs 
$5.25 
The Crab with the Golden Claws 
$5.25 
King Ottokar’s Sceptre 
$5.25 
Prisoners of the Sun 
$5.25 
Red Rackham’s Treasure 
$5.95 
The Seven Crystal Balls 
$5.95 
Tintin in Tibet 
$5.95 
—John Holt’s Book and Music Store 
e 
“You had a late reader, didn’t you?’’ 
“Yes, my oldest son didn’t start reading until he was 8¥2.”’ 
“How did he do the last time he was tested?”’ 
‘His reading level was 11th grade, plus.’’ He was 10 at 
the time. ‘It’s the most reassuring thing that ever could 
have happened.”’ 
He likes to read the Wall Street Journal and other finan- 
cial news, and is writing to mining companies about 
stock. The TinTin comic books were responsible for 
Ronnie’s sudden interest in reading. 
—Growing Without Schooling 
Better Than School 
After watching their lively, intelligent son wither in the class- 
room for over a year, Nancy and Bob Wallace took him 
out of school to teach him at home. Better Than School is 
one family’s experience with home schooling. It is as 
much a tale about bureaucratic oppression as it is a 
chronicle of constant experimentation, excitement, mis- 
takes, and triumphs as the entire family is caught up in 
the adventure of learning. 
This is not an instruction manual for home teaching, but 
a book of inspiration and encouragement to parents wish- 
ing to educate their children — and themselves — in their 
own unique ways. For educators and other “experts, “’ 
it offers a rare glimpse of the extraordinary capabili- 
ties lurking in the most ordinary — or even learning 
disabled — child. 
—Carol Van Strum 
As usual, the school board ranted. They seemed pri- 
marily to be disgusted that Ishmael was doing so well. 
“You must push Ishmael too hard,’” one board member 
accused, and others seemed to be outraged that we 
allowed Ishmael to make choices about what he wanted 
to learn. We just sat there. 
They did finally grant us permission to teach Ishmael at 
home for another year. They knew they had no other 
choice. It wouldn’t have looked good to say, ‘“Ishmael 
has been learning 
so much and appears to be so happy 
at home that we Kav decided to deny him permission to 
learn at home again next year.” 
HOME SCHO 
LEARNING 
OLING 38! 
The Big Book of 
Home Learning 
Mary Pride 
1986; 348 pp. 
$17.50 
($18.50 postpaid) from: 
Good News Publishers 
9825 West Roosevelt Road 
Westchester, IL 60153 
or Whole Earth Access 
Growing Without 
Schooling 
Donna Richoux, Editor 
$1 5/year 
(6 issues) from: 
Growing Without 
Schooling 
729 Boylston Street 
Boston, MA 02116 
John Holt’s Book 
and Music Store 
Catalog free 
with SASE from: 
John Holt’s Book 
and Music Store 
729 Boylston St. 
Boston, MA 02116 
Better Than School 
Nancy Wallace 
1983; 256 pp. 
$10.95 
($12.45 postpaid) from: 
Larson Publications 
4936 Route 414 
Burdett, NY 14818 
or Whole Earth Access 
