Cultural Celebration: North 
Virgin forest is nearly impossible to find; the forests of the 
northeast have been settled longest, and with settlement 
has come a strong voice of love. “’] have travelled a goo 
deal insConcord . 
. .”” is Thoreau’s famous line and it had 
many followers. Here God and Nature became inextric- 
ably tangled. In second growth forest, the Mind remained 
pioneer: Ralph Waldo Emerson, Henry Wadsworth Long- 
fellow, Emily Dickinson, Charles Olson, William Carlos 
Williams, Robert Creeley, Robert Frost. It’s a bioregion 
of beautifully crafted poetry and very moral prose (e.g. 
Hawthorne, Melville). Thoreau’s Journals (also see 
Walden, p. 184) — part of the great quest to give trans- 
cendental truth to each act of Nature — contain the most 
loving attention to seasonal change ever recorded in 
North America. Ernest Hemingway’s The Nick Adams 
Stories tells of Nick growing up in the north woods of 
Michigan with prose as direct and simple as a single 
white pine in winter snow. 
—Peter Warshall 
They came from the hot sun of the slashings into the 
shade of the great trees. The slashings had run up to the 
top of a ridge and over and then the forest began. They 
were walking on the brown forest floor now and it was 
springy and cool under their feet. There was no under- 
brush and the trunks of the trees rose sixty feet high 
before there were any branches. It was cool in the shade 
of the trees and high up in them Nick could hear the 
breeze that was rising. No sun came through as they 
walked and Nick knew there would be no sun through 
the high top branches until nearly noon. His sister put 
her hand in his and walked close to him. 
“I’m not scared, Nickie. But it makes me feel very 
strange. ”’ 
““Me, too,’’ Nick said. ‘‘Always.’’ 
“| never was in woods like these.’ 
’ 
EASTERN FORESTS 
Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore near Munising, Michigan. 
—The North Woods 
“This is all the virgin timber left around here.’’ 
‘“‘Do we go through it very long?’’ 
“Quite a way.’’ 
“I'd be afraid if | were alone.’ 
“It makes me feel strange. But I’m not afraid.’’ 
“| said that first.’’ 
“| know. Maybe we say it because we are afraid.’’ 
“No. I’m not afraid because I’m with you. But | know 
I’d be afraid alone. Did you ever come here with any- 
one else?’’ 
““No. Only by myself.’’ 
“And you weren’t afraid?’’ 
“No. But | always feel strange. Like the way | ought 
to feel in church.’’ 
, 
—The Nick Adams Stories 
Those sparrows, too, are thoughts | have. They come and 
go; they flit by quickly on their migrations, uttering only a 
faint chip, | know not whither or why exactly. One will 
not rest upon its twig for me to scrutinize it. The whole 
copse will be alive with my rambling thoughts, bewilder- 
ing me by their very multitude, but they will be all gone 
directly without leaving me a feather. My loftiest thought 
is somewhat like an eagle that suddenly comes into the 
field of view, suggesting great things and thrilling the 
beholder, as if it were bound hitherward with a message 
for me; but it comes no nearer, but circles and soars 
away, growing dimmer, disappointing me, till it is lost 
behind a cliff or a cloud. 
@ 
This is one of those ambrosial, white, ever-memorable 
fogs presaging fair weather. It produces the most pictur- 
esque and grandest effects as it rises, and travels hither 
and thither, enveloping and concealing trees and forests 
and hills. It is lifted up now into quite a little white moun- 
tain over Fair Haven Bay, and, even on its skirts, only 
the tops of the highest pines are seen above it, and all 
adown the river it has an uneven outline like a rugged 
mountain ridge; in one place some rainbow tints, and 
far, far in the south horizon, near the further verge of the 
sea (over Saxonville?) it is heaved up into great waves, 
as if there were breakers there. In the meanwhile the wood 
thrush and the jay and the robin sing around me here, 
and birds are heard singing from the midst of the fog. 
And in one short hour this sea will all evaporate and the 
sun be reflected from farm windows on its green bottom. 
—The Journal of Henry D. Thoreau 
| 
FAMOUS BARBECUE. NONE LIKE FAMOUS RED SAM- 
MY’S! RED SAM! THE FAT BOY WITH THE HAPPY 
LAUGH. A VETERAN! RED SAMMY’S YOUR MAN! 
—A Good Man Is Hard to Find 
Red Sam came in and told his wife to quit lounging on 
the counter and hurry up with these people’s order. His 
khaki trousers reached just to his hip bones and his 
stomach hung over them like a sack of meal swaying 
under his shirt. He came over and sat down at a table 
nearby and let out a combination sigh and yodel. ‘’You 
can’t win,’’ he said. ‘’You can’t win,’’ and he wiped his 
sweating red face off with a gray handkerchief. ‘’These 
days you don’t know who to trust,’” he said. ‘‘Ain’t that 
the truth?’’ 
—A Good Man Is Hard to Find 
from “The Clearing’’ 
February. A cloudy day/ foretelling spring by its warmth/ 
though snow will follow./ You are at work in the worn 
field/ returning now to thought./ The sorrel mare eager/ 
to the burden, you are dragging/ cut brush to the pile,/ 
moving in ancestral motions/ of axe-stroke, bending to 
log chain and trace, speaking/ immemorial bidding and 
praise/ to the mare’s fine ears./ And you pause to rest/ 
in the quiet day while the mare’s/ sweated flanks steam./ 
You stand in a clearing whose cost/ you know in tendon 
and bone./ A kingfisher utters/ his harsh cry, rising/ from 
the leafless river./ Again, again, the old/ is newly come. 
—Collected Poems 
A Good Man Is Hard to Find (and Other Stories): Flannery 
O'Connor, 1953, 1977; 251 pp. $4.95 ($5.95 postpaid) 
from Harcourt Brace Jovanovitch, 1250 6th Avenue, 4th 
Floor, San Diego, CA 92101 (or Whole Earth Access). 
Collected Poems (1957-1982): Wendell Berry, 1984; 268 pp. 
$16.50 ($18 postpaid) from North Point Press, 850 Talbot 
Avenue, Berkeley, CA 94706 (or Whole Earth Access). 
i‘.
WHOLE SYSTEMS SI 
The Nick Adams Stories: 
Ernest Hemingway. 1927, 
1972; 268 pp. $7.95 
postpaid from Macmillan 
Publishing Co./Order Dept., 
Front and Brown Streets, 
Riverside, NJ 08075 (or 
Whole Earth Access). 
The Journal of Henry D. 
Thoreau (14 volumes, bound 
as 2 volumes): Bradford Tor- 
rey and F. H. Allen. 1906; 
1,804 pp. $40 each ($41 
each postpaid) from Dover 
Publications, Inc., 31 E. 2nd 
Street, Mineola, NY 11501 
(or Whole Earth Access). 
Selected Journals of Henry 
David Thoreau: Bode and 
Carl, 1967. $3.95 ($5.45 
postpaid) from New Amer- 
ican Library, 120 Woodbine 
Street, Bergenfield, NJ 
07621 (or Whole 
Earth Access). 
Lees EROS 
Howlin’ Wolf — from Down 
|
Home Records (p. 348). 
< Nine-banded 
cui 
\ S Wad 
armadillo. 
ie 
iy 
—Eastern 
o 
Forests 
|
