The Next Economy 
Economic civilization is going around a corner the like of 
which it’s never seen before. This is the only guidebook so 
far. Customers and citizens and adaptive businesses are 
leading the way. Governments and major corporations are 
following. Where we come out is better. The now waning 
Mass Economy amassed fabulous wealth. The emerging 
Information Economy may not be so opulent, but it pre- 
sents greater opportunity for wholeness and happiness. 
Because Hawken is a businessman — the only economist 
who is (Smith and Hawken tools, p. 78) — his writing has 
a street sawvy you find nowhere else (except Peter 
Drucker). His economics is rooted in the individual. It 
speaks clearly to individual understanding and gives 
good counsel for individual behavior — “‘how to invest 
your life’’ — which in turn benefits the commonweal as 
well as the individual. 
—Stewart Brand 
@ 
Thus the amount of energy embodied in products has 
become a large component of our costs. This has 
become especially evident as the price of oil has gone 
up. What has not been so evident is the effect the cost of 
energy has on the level of information contained within 
our goods and services. Since using more energy, whether 
directly or indirectly, makes goods more expensive and 
therefore less available, we will have to use less energy 
to produce the same or better goods if we are to maintain 
our standard of living. To do this, the amount of infor- 
mation per unit of production must increase correspon- 
dingly. Remember that we are defining information here 
as design, utility, and durability or, to put it another way, 
the application of the knowledge of how to best make or 
accomplish something. The manufacturer must seek ways 
to make his product a better product, using fewer 
resources as well as less energy and work. Doing this 
means finding a better material, redesigning the prod- 
uct, or employing new manufacturing techniques. It 
may mean using computers to process information, 
monitor the flow of work, or design components. It may 
mean using robots to do repetitive mechanical tasks. It 
may mean changing the way the product is distributed. 
ECONOMICS 
EXXON / SHELL/ CIA FORECAST 
Whatever methods of improvement are chosen, 
the goal is the same: to produce more using 
less. The critical difference between now and 
twenty years ago is that the manufacturer can 
no longer just use more energy to increase pro- 
ductivity. It’s too expensive. Instead, the manu- 
 auantity 
facturer has to become smarter at what he does. 
> The Wall Street Journal showed two different 
energy forecasts. The first was the Exxon/Shell/ 
CIA model used in the mid-to-late seventies 
1950 
that projected inelastic energy demand clashing 
with limited supply, a forecast that would result 
in soaring energy prices (top). The second mod- 
el was a simple supply-and-demand curve, in 
which the rising price of a commodity lowers 
demand while simultaneously drawing forth 
more supplies (bottom). 
one 
The Journal cited an editorial printed five years 
earlier that said the free market would solve 
the energy problem if left to its own workings. 
And so it has. 
In an informative economy, we change from an affluent 
to an influent society. If you are affluent, goods and 
services flow toward you; if you are influent, the informa- 
tion contained within goods flows into you. An affluent 
society may possess an opulent and abundant amount 
of goods, but that does not mean it will be able to utilize, 
appreciate, and maintain them. An influent society will 
have less, but its relationship to what it has will be more 
involved and concerned; people will take care of what 
they have, and what they have will mean more to them. In 
other words, an affluent society amasses goods, while 
an influent society processes the information within goods. 
The informative economy requires more intelligence from 
everyone — management, labor, consumers, govern- 
ments. Those who do not become learners again, 
regardless or age or rank, will find themselves at an 
increasing disadvanatage as the informative economy 
takes root. 
Innovation and 
Entrepreneurship 
According to long-term business cycles reliable in the 
past, the economy should be bleak right now. It’s not. 
What appears to be taking up the slack is an entrepre- 
neurial zest and ferment unlike any in history, and it’s 
being built into the society. The old-time master of 
management, Peter Drucker, has written his handbook of 
entrepreneurial “practice and principles.’’ There’s a lot 
of such books these days. He blows them away. 
—Stewart Brand 
Three hundred years of technology came to an end after 
World War II. During those three centuries the model for 
technology was a mechanical one: the events that go on 
inside a star such as the sun. This period began when an 
otherwise almost unknown French physicist, Denis Papin, 
envisaged the steam engine around 1680. They ended 
when we replicated in the nuclear explosion the events 
inside a star. For these three centuries advance in tech- 
© Easily the most astute seer in business is Peter Drucker. 
This is his classic. 
Managing in Turbulent Times: Peter F. Drucker, 1980; 239 pp. 
$6.95 ($8.45 postpaid) from Harper and Row, 2350 Virginia 
Avenue, Hagerstown, MD 21740 (or Whole Earth Access). 
e Also see Drucker’s The Effective Executive (p. 193). 
nology meant — as it does in mechanical processes — 
more speed, higher temperatures, higher pressures. 
Since the end of Word War II, however, the model of 
technology has become the biological process, the events 
inside an organism. And in an organism, processes are 
not organized around energy in the physicist’s meaning 
of the term. They are organized around information. 
Entrepreneurship rests on a theory of economy and 
society. The theory sees change as normal and indeed as 
healthy. And it sees the major task in society — and 
especially in the economy — as doing something dif- 
ferent rather than doing better what is already being done. 
This is basically what Say, two hundred years ago, meant 
when he coined the term entrepreneur. It was intended 
as a manifesto and as a declaration of dissent: the entre- 
preneur upsets and disorganizes. As Joseph Schumpeter 
formulated it, his task is “creative destruction.” 
Specifically, systematic innovation means monitoring 
seven sources for innovative opportunity. 
¢ The unexpected — the unexpected success, the unex- 
pected failure; 
e The incongruity — between reality as it actually is and 
reality as it is assumed to be or as it “ought to be’; 
¢ Innovation based on process need; 
¢ Changes in industry structure or market structure that 
catch everyone unawares; 
¢ Demographics (population changes); 
e Changes in perception, mood, and meaning; 
e New knowledge, both scientific and nonscientific. 
LIVELIHOOD 
185 
1970 
1990 
2010 
2030 
SUPPLY-AND-DEMAND CURVE (ECONOMICS 101) 
Price 
The Next Economy 
Paul Hawken 
1983; 215 pp. 
$14.50 
($16.50 postpaid) from: 
Henry Holt and Co. 
521 5th Avenue, 
12th Floor 
New York, NY 10175 
or Whole Earth Access 
ce al 
Minis 
Innovation and 
Entrepreneurship 
Peter F. Drucker 
1985; 277 pp. 
$19.45 
($20.95 postpaid) from: 
Harper and Row 
2350 Virginia Avenue 
Hagerstown, MD 21740 
or Whole Earth Access 
