- 
2’Park Avenue 
us» New York, NY 10016 
<< or-Whole Earth Access 
LEARNING 
BODY ARTS 
372 
“ The Juggling Book 
I’ve found juggling to be a sport/meditation-in-action/ 
training superbly suited for the balancing act and juggling 
of energies required for staying aloft. When | juggle | am 
either focused and centered or | drop me balls. Simple as 
that. Instant bio-feedback. If I’m ON | can step back and 
watch my hands put out continuing displays of patterns 
and form change. 
With The Juggling Book, it should only take you 30 minutes 
to an hour at the beach or on a large grassy area (saves 
on furniture) to get started. If you don’t know anyone who 
juggles, Carlo’s book seems lucid and thorough enough 
to do the trick. There’s a wealth of material here, some 
nice advanced stunts — the progression from three- to 
four-ball juggling is clear and logical — and the empha- 
sis on inner states and mindset is right on. My only 
complaint is not enough pictures. 
—Jon Scoville 
Once learned, the ability to juggle is never lost or for- 
gotten, no matter how young or old you are when you 
learn or how many years intervene. In my teaching ex- 
perience | have never found anyone unable to learn 
because of any so-called lack of coordination. This is a 
myth that conveniently covers up a real desire to learn, 
embarrassment, or some other kind of mental block. If you 
can throw and catch a ball, you can learn how to juggle. 
Clown 
This is the most accessible book I’ve found for the closet 
clown. It has sections on make-up, movements, and prop 
building, and sequence photos of six (count ‘em) six 
classic routines that even a kid can comprehend. Time- 
tested at Camp Winna Rainbow. Yes, you too can learn to 
slap, take, slow burn, blow off and add a little laughter 
to this sometimes weary world. 
—Wavy Gravy 
Clown 
Mark Stolzenberg 
1981; 160 pp. 
$8.95 
($10.45 postpaid) from: 
Sterling Publishing 
Louis Tannen’s Catalog of Magic 
e Hank Lee’s Catalog of Magic 
Hank Lee has nice stuff for young magicians and parties. 
Louis Tannen has the biggest magic catalog around, with 
all manner of tricks, equipment, and work plans for 
larger gear. 
—Stewart Brand 
Louis Tannen’s 
Catalog of Magic 
1985; 828 pp. 
$8 postpaid from: 
Louis Tannen, Inc. 
6 W. 32nd Street, 4th Floor 
New York, NY 10001 
<4 Two Goblets 
The latest in the Masters of Magic series. A brilliant, crisp, 
Hank Lee’s 
well-constructed treatment of the Cups and Balls. 
Catalog of Magic 
All of the traditional weaknesses have been eliminated 
Catalog 
through the marvelous handling. 
— At no time do you have an extra ball palmed! 
$5 from: 
— At no time do you perform a false transfer! 
— Uses only 2 Cups from a 3 Cup COMBO SET 
This is a two cup, one ball routine, which is very easy for 
the audience to follow. One ball penetrates, vanishes, 
appears, and transposes. For the finale, three HUGE balls 
appear! ! 
To create this new effect, some clever new moves and 
dodges were invented. All are very easy, yet very strong. 
The entire routine runs about 3 minutes. More than 75 
photos along with the clearly written text explain every 
moment of the routine. A super cups and balls routine!! 
$12.50 (10.130) no cups supplied...see COMBO 
CUPS above) 
Hank Lee’s Magic Factory 
125 Lincoln Street 
P. O. Box 1359 
Boston, MA 02205 
—Hank Lee’s Catalog of Magic 
The performer's lady assistant is placed in the box with her feet and ankles projecting from one end and her 
head from the other. Her feet and head are then secured with stocks which slide down in metal grooves at 
each end of the box. By means of an ordinary cross-cut saw, the box is then cut exactly in half, after which 
the two sections of the box are separated and moved some distance apart. 
With our version of this baffling effect, only one lady is used and the box is easily reconstructed for 
performing this effect over and over. 
Superior Professional’ Model) made'to order... 
5... o0.....< cette enscir ns gays s.oncsoneanara gexeacina’s dncacusscreaascies 
Osbome’ Workshop ' 
Plans !ro0. 02s scsescneeedcnssc date tutes oeewetcnn segh niece reeraeR eer aoe eee $25.00 
—Louis 
Tannen’s 
The Juggling Book 
Carlo 
1974; 102 pp. 
$6.95 
($7.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
Order Dept. 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
Popping the ball. 
The clown who is get- 
ting slapped should 
clap his hands and 
throw his head 
abruptly to the 
side in the upstage 
direction — or away 
from the hand that is 
slapping. This stac- 
cato movement of 
the head gives the 
illusion of impact. If 
you clap your hands 
exactly when the 
slapper’s hand 
arrives, it will look 
and sound as though 
you've really 
been hit. 
Remember: all your slaps and falls should have a comic 
feeling, and you always need to let the audience know 
that you haven’t been hurt. 
When you do a fall, always land facing the audience, if 
possible. If you want to land in profile, or at an angle to 
the audience, make sure you let the audience see your 
face and your reaction. 
e 
Staying in Character 
It’s important to perform your slaps and falls as your 
character would do them. One character might get 
angry after a fall. Another might cry or laugh. One 
clown might get up slowly; another might jump right 
back up to his feet. Your slapstick skills should not stand 
out awkwardly from your character. 
¢ Most jugglers recommend Dube. Their “‘airflite’’ clubs are 
the classic affordable, high-quality clubs. Unicycles, top 
hats, balls, rings, torches, etc. 
Dube Juggling Equipment: catalog free from Brian Dube, 
Inc., 25 Park Place, New York, NY 10007. 
