than hanging tools over silhouettes on the 
wall because there isn’t enough wall space 
and because we’re constantly adding new 
tools as our interests change. 
Our tools are sorted by function rather 
than by name. Whackers, twisters, nabbers, 
and hole-makers live with their functional 
kindred. Just seeing them there together 
can give you an insight into how to do 
something more easily. Their drawers are 
color-coded so that go-phers can easily be 
sent to the right place: “The punch is in 
the green drawer.” 
Our tools range in quality from Taiwanese 
(for infrequent use, such as a plastic pipe 
cutter) to Teutonic or industrial (for tools 
we often beat up, such as electric drills). 
Stay away from the 99-cent bargain table: 
most tools need better steel than you’ll find 
there. Fake ViseGrips, for instance, wilt the 
first time out; no-name screwdrivers are like 
noodles. On the other hand, we’ve picked 
up many of our tools at garage sales and 
flea markets. Take a Sears tool catalog 
with you for reference to new-tool prices. 
CRAFT 
TOOLBOX 
154 
<4 LEVEL LEGS make it safe and easy to use a ladder on uneven ground or even on stairs. Once 
A LEVELS are the only way to get things, 
uh, level. Pro has 360° scale with pointer 
accurate to half a degree. It’s great for 
roof angles, and especially for aiming 
solar equipment. Line level hooks on string 
— handy for rough estimates over stringable 
distances. Bull’s eye levels in all directions 
at once. (All from U.S. General.) 
<4 OFFSET CUTTERS keep your hands 
away from the all-too-sharp edge of the 
metal while allowing very tight turns. 
Design won't wrinkle thin metal. Comes 
in lefts and rights — you need both. 
(U.S. General.) 
That’s one way to ensure that the bargain 
is a bargain. 
Most of our bought-new hand tools come 
from Sears. Quality is respectable, though 
you should inspect each item for workman- 
ship these days. Sears’ Craftsman brand 
warranty is peerless: if something breaks, 
they give you a new one. They recently 
replaced my broken 30-year-old wrench 
without a murmur. 
Electric hand tools are another matter. For 
once-in-a-while household use, cheap ones 
will do . 
. 
. for a while. They wear out 
quickly and won’t stand up to tough jobs. 
For hard work, try the medium-priced Ja- 
panese models from Makita, Ryobi, and 
Hitachi. They’ve gained a deservedly good 
reputation at the expense of U.S. manufac- 
turers who made the same mistake that 
Detroit did with cars: waiting too long to 
update designs and improve quality. For 
heavy-duty professional tools, we’ve had 
the best luck with Bosch and Milwaukee. 
Ours are still going strong after 16 years of 
severe abuse. We recommend that any elec- 
you’ve tried them, no ladder feels right without ‘em. (U.S. General.) 
A FOUR-FOOT RULERS will save you lots of time and 
grief when working with 4x8’ sheets, especially now that 
you can’t trust plywood to be square. The best rulers have 
etched numbers that won’t rub off. (At your local hard- 
ware or art supply store.) 
tric tool you buy be “double insulated” 
(marked [O] ), 
a feature that greatly reduces shock hazard. 
Some of our tools come from catalogs. (For 
our favorites, see pp. 158-159.) We wait for 
sales that can be 40 percent off list price, 
but you should always check for local sales 
before sending away for anything. Check 
local stores for demonstrators and freight- 
damaged merchandise too. What’s a few 
scratches? Don’t be too shy to ask the sales- 
person about it. As this toolbox has evolved, 
we've hardly ever paid list price for any- 
thing except for items needed immediately. 
We don’t own any cordless tools. They’re 
certainly handy if you work where there’s 
no power supply or where a cord would be 
in the way or dangerous, but the batteries 
apparently don’t like infrequent use. That’s 
what they’d get in our shop, so we'll wait 
until the need arises. As always. 
Tools aren’t all there is to a good shop. To 
speed the work, we stock about 600 sizes 
and types of fasteners, neatly arrayed. And 
