CovertAction 
Information Bulletin 
The actions and covert actions of the intelligence agencies 
of the world affect us every day — usually in ways 
unknown to us. CovertAction Information Bulletin has 
been keeping tabs on our own spies since 1978 and has 
earned a bucketfull of criticism from those same spies for 
its efforts. 
| look to CAIB for information running counter to the 
received truths of our pundits and quiescent press corps. 
CAIB has its own axes fo grind (of a largely leftist variety) 
but that doesn’t lessen its fundamental value. If you want 
to begin discerning the difference between information and 
disinformation, between the aboveboard and the under- 
handed, CAIB is a good place to start. 
© —Jay Kinney 
8 
In the early 1970s, Gelli’s goal in Italy was to destabilize 
the political system in such a way that the right wing, 
already under his direct control or influence, would ac- 
quire power with popular support. To bring this situation 
about, Gelli, in concert with other shady rightwing 
characters, organized the ‘’Strategy of Tension.’’ Ter- 
rorist acts, such as the bombing tite Rome-Munich ex- 
press train in 1974, and the Bologne railway station 
bombing in 1980, were organized and carried out by 
LLL 
TT I 
IN SS SO 
OT CE 
SE 
The Puzzle Palace 
The Puzzle Palace is a monumental reporting feat on the 
National Security Agency, the most secret government 
agency America has ever had. Organized in 1952 as a 
codemaking and codebreaking agency, the NSA has also 
tapped and translated foreign radio, scanned satellite 
signals, and burglarized offices. It’s gathered intelligence 
on organized crime and Cuba (for President Kennedy), 
and Vietnam protesters and drug dealers (for Johnson 
and Nixon). It has tried to completely avoid public scrutiny 
and legal constraint; it’s the kind of agency that can only 
exist in a government that feels it is at war. | got lost some- 
times in the book’s voluminous detail, but it’s a necessary 
book and I'll forgive some denseness. It’s our first glimpse 
of the police that Ivan Illich foresees for the electronic 
highways of the future. I’m grateful that James Bamford 
stuck with his topic and that Houghton Mifflin (the hard- 
cover publisher) and Penguin fought what must have been 
considerable pressure to suppress it. 
—Art Kleiner 
@ 
Because of NSA’s vacuum cleaner approach to intelli- 
gence collection — whereby it sucks into its system the 
maximum amount of telecommunications and then filters 
it through an enormous screen of ‘’trigger words’’ — 
analysts end up reviewing telephone calls, telegrams, 
and telex messages to and from thousands of innocent 
persons having little or nothing to do with the actual 
focus of the effort. Thus if an organization is targeted, 
all its members’ communications may be intercepted; if 
an individual is listed on a watch list, all communications 
to, from, or even mentioning that individual are scooped 
up. Captured in NSA’s net were communications about a 
peace concert, a communication mentioning the wife of 
a U.S. senator, a correspondent’s report from Southeast 
Asia to his magazine in New York, and a pro-Vietnam 
War activist’s invitations to speakers for a rally. 
AEA 
PA 
RT I 
IEE EE 
ES DOT YO 
SRS 
ED 
¢ Covert politics are the last straw to some folks; general 
avoidance of governmental interfence — anarchy — is one 
answer. The Loompanics catalog (p. 142) has some inter- 
esting reading on the subject. 
the rightwing groups. The bombings were investigated 
by the intelligence agencies under Gelli’s control, which 
placed responsibility for the bombings on leftwing 
terrorists. 
The strategy of tension envisioned that numerous “‘left- 
wing’’ bombings and acts of terrorism would build 
popular support for extreme antiterrorist legislation in 
the name of national security. Antiterrorism laws would 
then allow Gelli’s supporters in the military and in- 
telligence agencies to target leftwing groups with few 
legal restrictions. (Sergei Antonov is now in an Italian jail 
under the authority aes Italian antiterrorist law whieh 
permits the imprisonment of suspected subversives and 
terrorists for up to five years without a trial.) 
Critique 
What Richard Hofstadter characterized in 1965 as the 
‘Paranoid Style’’ in American politics — the nativist no- 
tion that we are being manipulated and subverted by 
secret conspiracies — dates back to the earliest days of 
our country when a furor against supposed Illuminati 
skullduggery exploded in 1798. Since then, popular 
scapegoats for domestic ills have included Freemasons, 
Papists, immigrants, and more recently Communists. The 
penchant for fingering secret enemies is hardly exclusive 
to the U.S. — the Nazis rode to power in Germany by ex- 
ploiting fears of Reds and Jews, after all — but it may be 
only in America that this world view has been able to 
bloom into its lushest, most mutant varieties. 
Critique, a small, handsomely typeset biannual subtitled 
“A Journal of Conspiracies and Metaphysics, ’’ is sort of 
a social Organic Gardening for those who cultivate this 
realm of suspicious imagination. Recent topics have in- 
cluded Hollow Earth theories, perpetual motion, Nazis 
and UFOs, the Bilderbergers, the secret Muslim Brother- 
hood, and of course the ever-popular Illuminati and 
Freemasons. 
What rescues Critique from terminal crankiness and 
makes it potentially worth your attention is editor Bob 
Banner’s even-handed objectivity. Throwing the journal's 
pages open to competing theories, scenarios, and mus- 
ings, Banner favors none over any other. Critique pro- 
vides a rare forum for hearing out accusations (wild and 
otherwise) that would probably just fester beneath the 
surface of the American psyche if left to their own devices. 
| can’t claim total detachment regarding Critique — it’s 
printed a couple of my reviews — but | find it a generally 
delightful antidote to the myopic seriousness of most 
political fare. You may too. 
—Jay Kinney 
The techniques of psychotherapy, widely practiced and 
accepted as a means of curing psychological disorders, 
are also methods of controlling people. They can be 
used systematically to influence attitudes and behavior. 
Systematic desensitization is a method used to dissolve 
anxiety so that the patient (public) is no longer troubled 
by a specific fear, a fear of violence for example. A pro- 
gressively more graphic depiction of violence in the 
movies and on television desensitizes the viewer, 
especially young people, to real-life violence. 
. 
. 
. 
Thus, The Day After and Special Bulletin could leave 
many viewers so numbed by a sense of hopelessness and 
helplessness that they could succumb to deep apathy 
with regard to anything that has anything to do with the 
prospect of nuclear confrontation. 
RT POLITICS 
COMMUNITY 91 
Salvadoran voters being 
“helped’’ to the polls. 
Pk Fsan at HESS BE RS 
3 es 
| 
Peres 
Ayo 
SEO 
ss sete" 
oy 
COKE 
F  ssscote 
CovertAction 
Information 
Bulletin 
Louis Wolf, Editor 
$1 S/year 
(4 issues) 
from: CAIB 
P.O. Box 50272 
Washington, DC 20004 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Puzzle Palace 
James Bamford 
1982, 1983; 655 pp. 
$7.95 
($8.95 postpaid) from: 
Viking Penguin Books 
299 Murray Hill Parkway 
East Rutherford, NJ 07073 
or Whole Earth Access 
Critique 
Bob Banner, Editor 
S! Alyear 
(2 issues) from: 
Critique Foundation 
P.O. Box 11451 
Santa Rosa, CA 95406 
