NOMADICS 
Build the New 
Instant Boats 
Harold H. Payson 
1984; 144 pp. 
$19.95 
($22.95 postpaid) from: 
International Marine 
Publishing Co. 
21 Elm Street 
Camden, ME 04843 
or Whole Earth Access 
Instant Boat Plans 
Catalog $3 from: 
Harold H. Payson 
Pleasant Beach Road 
South Thomaston, 
ME 04858 
Practical Yacht 
Joinery 
Fred P. Bingham 
1983; 274 pp. 
$35 
($38 postpaid) from: 
International Marine 
Publishing Co. 
21 Elm Street 
Camden, ME 04843 
or Whole Earth Access 
BOAT BUILDING 
NE OF LIFE’S true pleasures is the mo- 
ment when you first step aboard a boat 
you’ve made. As with most such victor- 
ies, there is a price: an enervating time 
delay between start and launch, a worrisome drain 
on finances, and a statistically high probability that 
the project will take so much time that your friends 
and even your mate will turn to more interesting 
companionship. Nonetheless 
. 
. 
. 
—J. Baldwin 
Build the New Instant Boats 
Boatbuilder ““Dynamite’’ Payson and naval architect 
Philip Bolger — a resourceful and clever cahoots if there 
ever was one — would have us believe that you can make 
a perfectly good boat without lofting, jigs, or exotic tech- 
nique, out of lumberyard wood, quickly. The actual time 
involved depends on how much experience you have and 
which of the 11 designs you choose, but several can reason- 
ably be completed in one weekend. Cheap, too; a nifty 
little sailboat just right for beginners and kids can be had 
Tacking on the bottom panel. The stern transom is stiffened 
temporarily with a batten, and an oar holds up the forward 
end of the bottom panel while the after end is tacked. 
for about $50 and two days’ work. That’s about as instant 
as you are likely to get. | can vouch that it can be done. 
Mr. Payson sells plans, too. 
—JB 
Basically, Tack-and-Tape begins with the cutting out of 
plywood panels, like the planks in plank-on-frame build- 
ing. These are shaped fo fit together, edge to edge, and 
are temporarily fastened in place with tacks — which, for 
my choice, are light 18-gauge nails. The outside seams 
are filled with glass putty. The nails are then easily re- 
moved and replaced by long strips of fiberglass tape, 
which function as the chine logs. So far you’ve been 
working bottom up, but once this assembly is stiff enough 
you turn it right side up and fill and tape the interior seams. 
Practical Yacht Joinery 
How to put that yacht together so it stays together and 
looks nice whilst doing so. It is assumed that you are 
reasonably smart, and that you have some skill, and that 
you speak a bit of yacht-talk. The whole yacht-builder’s 
toolbox is discussed in great detail before getting to actual 
woodworking. The woodworking is discussed in such 
detail that anyone, including a longtime professional, is 
likely to find many useful tricks of the trade. Some of the 
details will be useful to landlubbing greenhouse builders 
who wish to delay Dreaded Rot by clever water-shedding 
joints, something not covered in carpentry books. The text 
is terse and encourages one fo appreciate the finer things 
in yacht-construction subtleties. As youd expect, illustra- 
tions and photos make things easier to see. Much more 
of this and pros will be a dime a dozen! 
—JB 
Es ik 
(space exaggerated) 
TRIMMING PLUGS 
always 
al never 
a 
PLUGS MATCH GRAIN 
as 
ES 
never 
avoid this 
After a plug has been tapped in lightly with a small 
mallet (never to the bottom of the hole, for it may ex- 
pand and then protrude), it must be cut off carefully 
after the binder has set. Use a slick or a fairly heavy 
chisel. Hold the tool blade bevel down with the cutting 
edge 1/16 to 1/8 inch above the surface, as shown. 
Building Classic Small Craft 
For those who wish to build in the smaller size — rowing 
boats, small daysailers, utilities — Building Classic Small 
Craft by John Gardner is the book. The author is an ex- 
perienced builder with a solid reputation for skill and the 
ability to make all processes easy to understand. Though 
he favors boats of traditional design, he has the good 
sense to adapt today’s materials and techniques where 
applicable. One is able to have, with a clear conscience, 
one’s cake and eat it too. There’s now a Volume 2; more 
of same. 
—Peter Spectre 
td 
Nail one end securely, and then use the length of the > 
board as a lever to spring the board down in place 
gradually, nailing securely as you proceed, both through 
the cross cleats of the bottom and through the side 
edges. Boards several feet longer than the bottom 
should be used in order to gain leverage and to get the 
Building Classic Small Craft 
John Gardner 
Volume 1 
1977; 300 pp. 
Both from: 
; 
International Marine 
$30 ($33 postpaid) 
Publishing Co. 
Volume 2 
21 Elm Street 
1984; 241 pp. 
Camden, ME 04843 
$35 ($38 postpaid) 
or Whole Earth Access 
other end down into place. When the planks are securely 
nailed, the excess is sawed off. 
CHARLESTON BATEAU 
PLANKING THE GBOTTOLZ 
¢ See also The Gougeon Brothers on Boat Construction 
(p. 162). 
e Every imaginable sort of boat damage is put right in this 
book. It’s uncommonly excellent in every way. The Boat 
Repair Manual; George Buchanan, 1985, 312 pp. $29.95 
postpaid from ARCO Publishing, Prepaid Dept., 215 Park 
Avenue South, New York, NY 10003. 
