When we cut a cylinder by a plane, we get an ellipse. 
Mathematical Snapshots 
The most graphically insightful math book in print. Most 
math feeds proof; this lovely stuff feeds understanding, 
and is no less rigorous. If someone were going to see only 
one mathematics book in their life, this would be the best. 
—Stewart Brand 
To determine the centroid of a stick, we place it horizon- 
tally on the edges of our palms and then we bring our 
gravity. The stick never loses its equilibrium because 
when the centroid, which is initially between the palms, 
approaches one of them, the pressure on the nearer 
palm becomes many times greater than the pressure on 
the other palm; its product by the coefficient of friction 
must finally surpass the analogous product for the other 
palm; when this happens, the relative movement of the 
first palm ceases and the relative movement of the other 
one starts. This play continues alternately until both 
palms meet; the centroid is always between them and it 
is there at the final stage. The trick is done automatically 
without any conscious effort. 
How to Solve it 
This is the best book | know of for lining up a problem for 
a logical solution. The emphasis is on math, but it is sim- 
ple logic and can easily be applied to all forms of problem 
identification and analysis. Better yet is that the methods 
shown really work even on personal decision-making 
binds. Essentially it’s a head-straightener. 
—JB 
UNDERSTANDING THE PROBLEM 
What is the unknown? What are the data? What 
is the condition? 
Is it possible to satisfy the condition? Is the condition sufficient 
to 
determine 
the unknown? Or 
is it insufficient? Or redundant? 
Or 
contradictory? 
Draw a figure. Introduce suitable notation. 
Separate the various parts of the condition. Can you write them down? 
DEVISING A PLAN 
Have you seen it before? Or have you seen the same problem in a 
slightly different form? 
Do you know a related problem? Do you know a theorem that could 
be useful? 
Look at the unknown! And try to think of a familiar problem having 
the same or a similar unknown. 
Here is a problem related to yours and solved before. Could you use it? 
Could you use its result? Could: you use its method? Should you intro- 
duce some auxiliary element in order to make its use possible? 
Could you restate the problem? Could you restate it still differently? 
Go back to definitions. 
If yov cannot solve the proposed problem try to solve first some related 
problem. Could you imagine a more accessible related problem? A 
more general problem? A more special problem? An analogous problem? 
Could you solve a part of the problem? Keep only a part of the condi- 
tion, drop the other part; how far is the unknown then determined, 
how can it vary? Could you derive something useful from the data? 
Could you think of other data appropriate to determine the unknown? 
Could you change the unknown or the data, or both if necessary, so 
that the new unknown and the new data are nearer to each other? 
Did you use all the data? Did you use the whole condition? Have you 
taken into account all essential notions involved in the problem? 
CARRYING OUT THE PLAN 
Carrying out your plan of the solution, check each step. Can you see 
clearly that the step is correct? Can you prove that it is correct? 
LOOKING BACK 
Can you check the result? Can you check the argument? 
Can you derive the result differently? Can you see it at a glance? 
Can you use the result, or the method, for some other problem? 
¢ Lots of folks think learning math is a hopeless task. There 
are some books on p. 389 that can help you grasp math, 
calculus, and geometry. 
How to Lie with Statistics 
In these days of polls and “‘proof’’ furnished by testing by 
“independent laboratories, ’’ it might be well to bear in 
mind the lessons given by this simple book. It’s been 
around a long time, but it’s still deadly. 
—JB 
[Suggested by Roger Knights] 
=e 
>TO 
Billion 
Dollara 
Simply change the proportion between the ordinate and 
the abscissa. There’s no rule against it, and it does give 
your graph a prettier shape. All you have to do is let 
each mark up the side stand for only one-tenth as many 
dollars as before. That is impressive, isn’t it? Anyone 
looking at it can just feel prosperity throbbing in the 
arteries of the country. It is a subtler equivalent of 
editing ‘National income rose ten per cent”’ into “’. . 
. 
climbed a whopping ten per cent.”’ It is vastly more ef- 
fective, however, because it contains no adjectives or 
adverbs to spoil the illusion of objectivity. There’s nothing 
anyone can pin on you. 
22.0 
Billion 
Dollars 
= p 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
MATH 25 
eeeeapn 
Mathematical 
Snapshots 
Hugo Steinhaus 
1969; 311 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
Oxford University Press 
16-00 Pollitt Drive 
Fair Lawn, NJ 07410 
or Whole Earth Access 
How to Solve It 
Gyorgy Polya 
1973; 253 pp. 
$6.95 
($8.05 postpaid) from: 
Princeton University Press 
3175 Princeton Pike 
Lawrenceville, NJ 08648 
or Whole Earth Access 
How fo Lie 
with Statistics 
Darrell Huff 
1954; 142 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid from: 
W. W. Norton 
500 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10110 
or Whole Earth Access 
