HOW LS, ORDER FROM THIS CATALOG 3 
or 
r lering from. 
hown | 
in this catalog are accurate as of 
986. Most firms will write you back 
| 
don’t send enough money. Some will 
1 for the extra amount. 
Use International Money Orders 
le from your post office. To send 
‘to the US. from abroad, use IMOs or - 
k 
draft in US. dollars. 
| Expect prices to be higher if you 
Je live outside the US. It’s best to write 
_ for the price and shipping costs by enclosing 
an International Reply Coupon (available at 
your post office). Be sure to ask about the 
price and time difference between shipment 
___ by sea (months sometimes, with high possibility 
___ of damage and theft) and by air (secure and 
: ee but very expensive for heavy items). 
Write legibly. If you do much mail 
e 
s 
ondering. it's worthwhile to get address 
labels and stick them on everything. If your 
writing can’t be read, at least folks will know 
where it came from. 
Say what you want on the outside 
e of the envelope. a ‘mail order”’ 
ORDERING BOOKS 
FROM WHOLE 
EARTH ACCESS 
The phrase “or Whole Earth Access’ 
that appears under most book access 
information in this Catalog means 
that you can order the book from 
the Whole Earth Access Company, 
an outfit inspired by the Whole Earth 
Catalog but not connected with us 
in any way. They offer this service as 
a convenience to our readers, espe- 
cially for multiple book orders from 
various publishers. 
Whole Earth Access Company has a catalog 
of their own (see p. 245) plus stores in San 
Francisco, Berkeley, and San Rafael, California. 
They keep thousands of titles in stock and can 
get many others. In addition to books, they 
carry a selection of tools, hardware, house- 
wares, clothing, electronics, and computers, 
often at bargain prices. 
Here’s how to order from Whole Earth 
if the super is in 
IMOs) : 
to send money abroad. They're 
or “catalog request’’ or “subscription order” 
under the address will help prevent the loss 
_ of your order. 
, 8 ‘Use stock numbers where we've listed 
'@ them, especially if ordering from the 
US. Government Printing Office. 
Some companies have an 800 num- 
9. ber for ordering. Call 1-800-555-1212 
to find out. Some of these companies will ac- 
cept credit card orders. You may be charged 
extra for credit card service. 
a 
Don’t order from the excerpts 
© of catalogs we’ve reviewed. Send 
for their brochure or catalog to get latest 
specifications and prices, and order from that. 
| Be patient. It takes at least two 
© weeks for your goods to arrive; four to 
six weeks’ wait is normal, especially if you've 
paid by personal check. Don’t worry unless it’s 
taken more than two months. Keep a record 
of date of purchase, and a photocopy or other 
record of your check, so if your order is lost 
you can give them specific details. Include 
your full name and address (with zip code) 
every time you write. 
| 
Be gentle. When complaining, re- 
® member that your goal is resolution, 
not revenge. If you are polite, calm, and spe- 
Access (be sure to send the order to 
THEM and not to us, or hellish confusion 
will result). 
Print the name, telephone number, 
and address to which you want the 
order shipped. 
Print the titles and quantity of the books 
you want, the page number they appear 
on in this Catalog, and the list prices. When 
only a postpaid price is given, that IS the list 
price. (Some companies don’t charge for 
postage and handling.) 
Total the prices of the books you 
are ordering. 
For delivery in California, add 6 percent 
tax (62 percent in BART counties). 
Add $3 to each order of up to five 
books, and 50* for each additional book 
for postage and handling. Orders of over 20 
books will be charged actual UPS shipping rate. 
Orders are shipped UPS unless you 
indicate otherwise. 
For rush orders, specify UPS Blue Label 
(2nd Day Air). This costs $6.50 for up to 
five books (instead of the $3 mentioned above). 
For foreign orders, shipping is $4 for 
the first two books and 50* for each 
cific, the person you're talking with will likely 
be more cooperative. 
: 
Be considerate. Don’t send away 
e for catalogs just to keep your mail- 
box full. Some businesses we've listed in past 
Catalogs have been so swamped by frivolous 
inquiries that they had to shut down. If you 
write for free information, send a stamped, 
self-addressed envelope (SASE). 
ON’T FORGET LIBRARIES! 
Most libraries can get you 
most any book if you’re 
willing to wait for the inter- 
library loan network to work its 
magic. If it’s a book, you probably 
don’t have to buy it. 
And don’t forget your local book- 
store. You can order most of the 
books in this Catalog through them, 
thus supporting a local business, and 
probably saving you postage and 
handling charges. 
additional book. For orders to developing 
countries, International Registry Insurance is 
recommended. That costs an extra $3.60 per 
order. Please remit bank draft in U.S. dollars. 
Enclose payment in full with check or 
money order. VISA/MasterCharge cus- 
tomers print name from card, account number, 
expiration date, and sign your name. 
VISA/MasterCharge cardholders can 
order by phone. Call toll-free 
800/845-2000 (or locally, 415/845-3000) 
between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. Pacific time. 
Send orders to: 
Whole Earth Access 
2990 Seventh Street 
Berkeley, CA 94710 
800/845-2000 ° 415/845-3000 
Whole Earth Access Statement: 
‘We will do our best to get your books to you 
as soon as we can. If for any reason you are dis- 
satisfied with our products or service, please return 
the books to us and we will promptly refund 
your money. 
Publishers’ prices are subject to change. We will 
adjust your order accordingly, issuing a refund if 
necessary. Current booklists and prices are avail- 
able on request.” 
