WHOLE SYSTEMS 
EXPLORING SPACE 
Entering Space 
This book is quite simply the best and most 
attractive introduction to manned space ex- 
ploration that | have seen. Written by one 
of the Space Shuttle astronauts (before the 
Challenger tragedy), it is an upbeat, behind- 
the-scenes look at the U.S. space program. 
Over 215 dramatic color illustrations, many 
unique to the book, provide a visual feast 
for the space enthusiast. —Andrew Fraknoi 
<i 
While | idly watched a trail of ash and smoke 
spread out over the Pacific from the cone of 
a Nicaraguan volcano, Dale began to secure 
the A-frame. 
Planetary Landscapes 
Access to planets! Pictures and text show and explain 
radically different geological processes in a way that 
makes other planetary bodies more familiar and our own 
more fantastic. This is exciting stuff. It’s a lot like anthro- 
pological archaeology, where a mix of careful observation 
and creative detective work is needed. What's presented 
is both the what (discovered) and the how (it was 
discovered). Greeley is contagiously fascinated with his 
subject. Everything is explained with an attention to a 
type of detail necessary for scientists but often neglected 
for laymen — such as an explanation of “‘things that go 
wrong with pictures sent from space.’’ The mountains of 
Mars to the moons of Jupiter — come alive. 
—David Finacom 
e 
Oblique Viking orbiter view across Gangis Chasma in the 
canyonlands of Mars. The landslide on the far wall extends 
as far as 50 km from the canyon wall and is one of several 
landslides that have enlarged the canyon. Visible in the 
lower right is a dark deposit which consists of sand dunes, 
demonstrating aeolian activity. 
The Greening of Mars 
British scientist James Lovelock, the co-author of the Gaia 
Hypothesis — which suggests how Earth’s life uses the 
atmosphere to regulate the planet — has co-authored a 
novel on how to do something similar with Mars. Lovelock’s 
credentials to devise such a scheme are impressive. Back 
before the Viking probe of Mars’ surface, he was hired by 
NASA to analyze the chances for life on Mars by studying 
the Martian atmosphere. His conclusion — no life on 
Mars because its atmosphere is so chemically stable it 
shows nothing is fiddling with it — was hushed up by 
NASA, but there was a nice byproduct: because Earth’s 
atmosphere is so chemically unstable that the presence of 
life is required to explain it, Lovelock’s Mars research led 
directly to the Gaia Hypothesis (see next page). 
What is particularly appealing about his plan to green 
Mars is its low-cost, nongovernmental, realistic, unroman- 
tic, even somewhat tawdry approach. He would gather 
up the world’s obsolete solid-fuel missile rockets 
(available to anyone who can reasonably dispose of 
them), lash them together, and fire them in the general 
direction of Mars. For payload they carry the world’s 
warehoused and outlawed chlorofluorocarbons 
(remember when spray deodorant threatened our 
TT AS 
IE EIT IE 
EL EE EE IIE 
EAS EIT 
¢ Folks interested in furthering the cause of space explor- 
ation and space colonies get together to chat in the L5 
Society. Membership includes their magazine, L5 News 
(not available separately). 
L5 Society: Membership $30/year from 1060 Elm Street, 
Tucson, AZ 85719. 
precious ozone?), which are released on collision with 
Mars. As a greenhouse gas the chlorofluorocarbons are 
100 times more potent than the CO, that worries us on 
Earth — frozen Mars starts rapidly warming toward 
livability. Throw in a few Antarctic lichens to multiply and 
darken Mars’ albedo (reflectivity). Within 1] years 
humans can begin to arrive in semi-comfort and ac- 
celerate the process. 
| find the book mildly interesting as a novel but riveting as 
a proposal. A number of young scientists have been in- 
trigued enough by the British edition of this book to call a 
meeting in Canada to discuss the implications of its ideas. 
One term that came out of that meeting | just love — 
“ecopoieses’’ — “the process of a system making a home 
for itself.’’ 
—Stewart Brand 
On Earth, the weight of the organisms living in the top 
few centimetres of a field of grass is much greater than 
the weight of the cows feeding on that grass. You might 
stock five cows, weighing say 2.5 tonnes, on one hectare 
of very good pasture. Depending on the soil, the popu- 
lation in the top few centimetres may weigh between 11 
and about 22 tonnes per hectare, or around 1.6 kg per 
cubic metre, and of that total, more than 1.4 kg consists 
of nothing but bacteria, fungi, and protozoa. On Earth, 
the total weight of all the organisms that are too small to 
be seen by the unaided human eye exceeds by a huge 
margin the weight of those you can see. 
When you add together the effect on the environment of 
each of these tiny organisms it amounts to a major alter- 
ation in the chemistry of the entire planet. It is this 
alteration that allows us to distinguish between a planet 
that supports life and one that does not. 
Entering Space 
Joseph P. Allen 
with Russell Martin 
1985; 240 pp. 
$16.95 
($18.10 postpaid) from: 
Workman Publishing Co. 
Stop Order Dept. 
1 West 39th Street 
New York, NY 10018 
or Whole Earth Access 
Planetary 
Landscapes 
Ronald Greeley 
1985; 265 pp. 
$44.95 
($46.95 postpaid) from: 
Allen & Unwin, Inc. 
8 Winchester Place 
Winchester, MA 01890 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Greening 
of Mars 
James Lovelock and 
Michael Allaby 
1984; 215 pp. 
$3.50 
($4.50 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
Order Dept. 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
