LS 
a 
— 
Success with House Plants 
The heart of this book is its most useful part — an A-Z 
guide to 600 house plants. Color illustrations accompany 
suggestions of varieties and instructions on care and prop- 
agation. Since this book was published some safer and 
less toxic remedies for house plant pests have come on 
the market (you can find out about them on p. 80). Other- 
wise this is a very comprehensive and useful book. 
—Richard Nilsen 
The genus Begonia includes more than 2,000 species 
and hybrids, and they are as varied in appearance and 
habit as these numbers suggest. . 
. 
. Begonias range in 
size from tiny, ground-hugging creepers to stout- 
stemmed specimens 8-10 feet tall. 
Because the genus is so large, it is generally divided into 
groups based on the differing storage organs or root 
structures of these plants. Some have fibrous roots (as 
most plants do). A second group consists of species in 
which roots grow down from a thick creeping rhizome. A 
third group includes tuberous species that have a fleshy, 
swollen storage organ at the base of the stem. 
Sinsemilla Tips 
e Indoor Marijuana Horticulture 
Smoking and then growing marijuana once introduced a 
generation of Americans to gardening. There is still only 
one state (Alaska) where it is legal to grow and possess 
marijuana for personal consumption. Between drug law 
enforcement and the neighbor kid down the block, 
growers today are becoming experts at high-tech indoor 
cultivation. High-intensity discharge lights, hydroponic 
cultivation and even computer-controlled indoor environ- 
ments are all available. Companies selling this equipment 
advertise in Sinsemilla Tips, which covers political news 
and the latest in cultivation techniques. Indoor Marijuana 
Horticulture is the best introduction to the wondertul 
world of electricity that makes total indoor growing pos- 
sible — fans, lights, timers, moisture meters, and CO, 
enrichment systems. 
Commercial marijuana growing tends to be armed, danger- 
ous, and locked in a symbiotic bear-hug with government. 
There but for the police would go the price and market 
share to the likes of Philip Morris, R. J. Reynolds, and in- 
dividual growers. There but for the illegal growers would 
go the need for an entire paramilitary bureaucracy fighting 
a war it can never win. Meanwhile the Fourth Amendment 
continues to get whittled away at, and nobody gets the 
tax revenues from a multibillion-dollar industry. 
—Richard Nilsen 
[Sinsemilla Tips suggested by Charles Kelly] 
e 
Technological breakthroughs and scientific research have 
shed bright light on indoor horticulture, by producing the 
1000 watt metal halide and 1000 watt High Pressure 
(HP) sodium, High Intensity Discharge (HID) lamps. 
Now, a reasonably priced artificial light source, pro- 
viding the color spectrum and intensity necessary for 
marijuana growth, is on the market. With the HID 
lamps, a gardener may totally control the indoor envi- 
ronment. Together, these two types of HID lamps provide 
sufficient intensity, of the proper colors in the spectrum, 
to grow incredibly potent marijuana. 
@ 
CAUTION: A HOT HID MAY EXPLODE IF TOUCHED BY A SINGLE 
DROP OF COLD WATER. BE VERY CAREFUL AND MAKE SURE TO 
MOVE THE HID OUT OF THE WAY WHEN SERVICING GARDEN. 
—Indoor Marijuana Horticulture 
Mushroompeople 
Mushroompeople is the best 
place for a grower and mush- 
room lover to begin. Mushroom- 
people are super-competent 
and have a computer help 
line for their customers. They 
specialize in shiitake, sell spe- 
cialized strains for greenhouses 
or outdoors and give mushroom 
tours to Japan. Costs are lower 
than equipment described in 
The Mushroom Cultivator. The 
catalog has all the best books for 
mushroom growing, hunting in 
the wild, feasting and cooking. 
—Peter Warshall 
Shiitake mushrooms. > 
# 
INDOOR GARDENING 
LAND USE 75 
Success with 
House Plants 
Anthony Huxley, Editor 
1979; 480 pp. 
$21.99 
($23.93 postpaid) from: 
Reader’s Digest 
Attn.: Order Entry 
Pleasantville, NY 10570 
or Whole Earth Access 
Sinsemilla Tips 
Tom Alexander, Editor 
$20/vear 
(4 issues) from: 
Sinsemilla Tips 
P. O. Box 2046 
Corvallis, OR 97339 
Indoor Marijuana 
Horticulture 
Jorge Cervantes 
1984; 288 pp. 
$14.95 
($17.95 postpaid) from: 
Jorge Cervantes 
Indoor Garden Store 
P.O. Box 02009 
Portland, OR 97202 
or Whole Earth Access 
Mushroompeople 
Catalog 
$2 from: 
Mushroompeople 
P.O. Box 158 
Inverness, CA 94937 
