142 
Amish Society 
John A. Hostetler 
1980; 414 pp. 
$9.95 
($11.45 postpaid) from: 
John Hopkins 
University Press 
701 West 40th Street 
Suite 275 
Baltimore, MD 21211 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Simple Life 
David E. Shi 
1985; 332 pp. 
$8.95 
postpaid from: 
Oxford University Press 
16-00 Pollitt Drive 
Fair Lawn, NJ 07410 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Vermont 
Country Store 
Catalog free from: 
The Vermont 
Country Store 
Mail Order Office 
P. O. Box 3000 
Manchester Center 
VT 05255 
Lehman’s 
Catalog 
$2 from: 
Lehman Hardware and 
Appliances, Inc. 
P. O. Box 41 
4779 Kidron Road 
Kidron, OH 44636 
Cumberland 
General Store 
Catalog 
$3.75 from: 
Cumberland 
General Store 
Route 3 
Crossville, TN 38555 
HOUSEHOLD 
LIVING SIMPLE 
Amish Society 
The Amish are a religious community that originated in 
Europe during the Reformation and is now concentrated 
in Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Indiana. They are one of the 
most resilient subcultures in America and also some of our 
best farmers. Sociologists keep waiting for them to die out 
or otherwise homogenize into the goo of the American 
melting pot, but this they refuse to do. 
This definitive study, by an Amishman turned college 
professor, is a fascinating history and provides a detailed 
look inside the Amish character. Their way of life, which 
from the outside may look hard or dull or quaint or bor- 
ing, turns out to be a model for the necessary values 
embodied in the concepts of community and local politics. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Amish communities are not relics of a bygone era. Rather, 
they are demonstrations of a different form of modernity. 
The Amish people maintain a human rather than an 
organizational scale in their daily lives. They resisted the 
large, consolidated school and the proposition that big 
schools (or farms) were better than small ones. A bu- 
reaucracy that places pupils together within narrow age 
limits and emphasizes science and technology to the ex- 
clusion of sharing values and personal responsibility is 
not tolerated. The Amish appreciate thinking that makes 
the world, and their own lives, intelligible to them. When 
human groups and units of work become too large for 
them, a sense of estrangement sets in. When this hap- 
The Simple Life 
Those of us who would like to see the simple life become 
a norm in this great land of ours may find this a distres- 
sing book. Since Colonial times, numerous ideologies of 
and attempts at simple living have flamed briefly, only to 
be overwhelmed by the indomitable spirit of materialism 
and privatism that seems far more native to the American 
character than material simplicity. Nevertheless, plain 
living is an idea that can’t be conquered, and in 
chronicling its history Shi relates a considerable sweep of 
this nation’s history and higher yearnings. 
—Stephanie Mills 
Essentially, it seems, the much-ballyhooed ‘’frugality 
phenomenon”’ of the 1970s was limited to middle- and 
upper-middle-class activists. Students, professors, envi- 
ronmentalists, consumer advocates, and idealists of 
various kinds were its most prominent and serious parti- 
cipants, and the predictions of a massive shift to simpler 
ways of living among the larger public were overstated. 
The weaknesses seem clear. Proponents of the simple life 
have frequently been overly nostalgic about the quality 
of life in olden times, narrowly anti-urban in outlook, 
and too disdainful of the benefits of prosperity and 
technology. .. 
. 
The radical critics of capitalism and promoters of spartan 
rusticity among the advocates of the simple life would be 
well advised to acknowledge that material progress and 
urban life can frequently be compatible with spiritual, 
moral, or intellectual concerns. As Lewis Mumford, one 
of the sanest of all the simplifiers, stressed in The Conduct 
of Life: ‘’It is not enough to say, as Rousseau once did, 
that one has only to reverse all the current practices to 
be right . 
. 
. If our new philosophy is well-grounded we 
shall not merely react against the ‘air-conditioned night- 
mare’ of our present culture; we shall also carry into 
the future many elements of quality that this culture 
actually embraces.’’ 
The traditional barn-raising, a form of economic sharing in 
times of need, symbolizes the concern Amish members 
have for one another’s welfare. 
pens the world becomes unintelligible to them and they 
cease participating in what is meaningless. 
Me SE 
STS 
Country Store Catalogs 
Like the Amish community it serves, Lehman’s is gentle, 
bucolic, and competent. Not a trace of tourist-fake- 
nostalgia in the farm-kitchen gear: gas refrigerators, 
wood cookstoves, and 50-gallon iron “‘cannibal”’ 
cauldrons. You can still get real Flexible Flyer sleds here! 
Cumberland General Store has similar country stuff, plus 
a wondertul selection of horse drawn buggies and 
wagons. The Vermont Country Store specializes in old- 
style cotton clothes and household goodies. They still 
make ‘em like they used to. 
—JB 
THE ENTERPRISE MONARCH. The most beautiful coal and 
wood range we have had in our 30 year history! —Lehman’s 
e See ‘‘Local Dependency,”’ p. 111. 
¢ A sympathetic look at living low on the hog. 
Voluntary Simplicity: Duane Elgin, 1981; 312 pp. $6.95 
($8.45 postpaid) from William Morrow Publishing Co., 6 
Henderson Drive, West Caldwell, NJ 07006 (or Whole 
Earth Access). 
