WHOLE SYSTEMS 
i 3 
EARTH IMAGING 
SPOT 1 
On February 21, 1986, the French space agency launched 
the first satellite specifically designed for remote sensing 
on a commercial basis: SPOT 1. Its high-resolution im- 
ages are marketed through an international network of 
subsidiaries and affiliates. Because of SPOT’s sidelooking 
capability, it can view a site without passing directly 
| 
overhead. Thus, it can re-view ground areas more often 
than Landsat — every few days, if necessary. 
Prices for a scene showing 60 x 60-85 km of surface 
range from $370 for a 19” x 19°’ color transparency (20 
meters ground resolution), to $2550 for a computer- 
compatible tape with geometric corrections. ‘’Pan- 
chromatic’ images can attain a ground resolution of ten 
meters — three times finer than Landsat’s best — with 
prices starting at $400 for a photoprint on paper. But the 
boost in clarity comes with a loss of color: panchromatic 
images are only available in black and white. 
Thus, the two systems have different strengths that make 
| 
them suited to somewhat different purposes. SPOT’s 
sharper images make it more useful for investigations 
where human activity and constructions are the focus, 
while Landsat’s superior spectral filtering gives it advan- 
| 
tages in resource identification and surveys. 
| 
—Robert Horvitz 
The SPOT 1 image that gave the civilian world one of the first glimpses of the 
damaged Russian nuclear reactor at Chernobyl in 1986. Arrow points toward 
a dark squiggly diagonal line — thought to be scorched ground resulting 
from an explosion. 
: 
SPOT 1 
Atlas of North America 
Information free from: 
With a level of quality readers have come to 
peed ascii pet 
expect from National Geographic, this book 
is a wondrous display of ae must be the 
SECU Sieh zed 
quintessence of space-based photography. 
Set in a context of text, maps, and illustra- 
tions, it is the color photographs — from 
satellites, shuttle crews, and aircraft — that 
make this atlas unique. Though nominally 
North American, the coverage slights 
Canada to the benefit of Mexico, Central 
America, and the Caribbean. This book 
may be the forerunner of a more mature 
exploitation of space imagery at work. 
—Don Ryan 
[Suggested by David Burnor] 
< 
Valleys and ridges northwest of Roanoke, 
Virginia, stand out in sharp relief in this en- 
hanced false-color Landsat image. To sharpen 
the relief, 
a computer has exaggerated tonal 
contrasts between eastern, illuminated slopes 
and the shaded western sides. 
Access to Public Space Images 
For now at least, oceanographic and meteorological 
satellites continue to be operated by the U.S. Government 
as a public service. The Satellite Data Services Division of 
Ts § — | )AA’s Notional Environmental Satellite Service main- 
tains an archive of over 8 million images from some 30 
Atlas of 
North America 
* Satellite photographs are one of the best tools for 
developing reliable data on worldwide problems such as 
satellites going back more than 20 years, and their prices 
ere hl 
drought and deforestation. Data of this sort is critical to 
are much lower than their commercial cousins’. Prices 
; 
264 pp. 
organizations attempting large-scale corrections of human 
start at $9 for a black and white print from a negative 
$29.95 
folly. 
(plus $4 handling per order), and range up to $100. 
($34.20 postpaid) from: 
| 
—Robert Horvitz 
National Geographic 
Satellite Data Services Division: Information free from 
Society 
SDSD, World Weather Building, Room 100, Washington, 
Washington, DC 20036 
DC 20233. 
or Whole Earth Access 
