Adjustable chamfer plane (Mentori Ganna); Tadao brand. 
CRAFT 
JAPANESE TOOLS 
167 
Shokunin [artisans] 
plane long materials 
using a pull stroke 
down an angled plan- 
ing beam. Speed, a 
small blade angle, 
and holding the blade 
on a skew to the wood 
help the plane leave 
a smooth, highly 
polished surface. 
Japanese Woodworking Tools 
The Western love for things Japanese includes woodworking 
tools and attendant mystique. I’ve heard it said that the 
finest Japanese tools are beyond the skill of Western 
craftsmen to use properly. Part of the problem is that it 
is relatively easy to put a chisel in a box and ship it across 
the ocean, but much more difficult to transport knowledge 
of the handling, care and lore that are part of any tool. 
Woodline: 
The Japan Woodworker 
For exquisite woodworking with exquisite tools, you can 
do no better than Japanese techniques and implements, 
the products of centuries of carefulness. Woodline has 
some of the best such tools available in America, many of 
them far finer than our skills can make use of yet. It’s 
an interesting experience to be shamed by a tool. 
—Stewart Brand 
KUGIHIKI NOKO GIRI (NAIL CUTTING SAW) 
Kugihiki Noko Giri are used to trim wooden nails and 
plugs flush with the surface of the work. The blade is 
quite thin and flexible, so that in use, it can be bent with 
a portion of the blade held flat against the work surface. 
The teeth have a very minimal set making it possible to 
cut the nail or plug flush without scratching the surface 
of the work. 
Overall length: 1934”’ 
# of teeth/inch: 22 
Price $51.95 
Length of blade: 7°/,’° 
REPT 
EE 
ETE 
ILE LIN EI LD RS 
DME 
© See ‘‘Japanese Architecture’ (p. 116). 
¢ The correct use of Japanese tools is best learned from a 
teacher. Woodline (above) has classes or can connect you 
with some. Write for information. 
The author of this book has a nice blend of Eastern tradi- 
tion and Western savvy. The trade he learned in Japan 
was making sliding doors, but for the past 25 years he 
has worked and taught in America. The book is full of his 
own line drawings, good photographs of him using the 
tools, and a loving attention to detail. 
—Richard Nilsen 
@ 
For any type of Japanese tool, there are about three 
levels of quality: the low level (inexpensive tools of low 
quality), the middle level (reasonably priced tools that 
are well forged), and the high level (extremely expensive 
tools of the highest quality). . 
.. Most shokunin [craftsmen] 
depended on middle-level blades forged by common 
blacksmiths. 
. 
. 
. Almost any kind of woodworking at the time [of my 
apprenticeship] depended on these middle-level tools. 
Japanese Wood- 
working Tools 
(Their Tradition, 
Spirit and Use) 
Toshio Odate 
1984; 189 pp. 
$23.95 
postpaid from: 
Taunton Press 
Box 355 
Newtown, CT 06470 
or Whole Earth Access 
Today, however, many sophisticated, small power tools 
are common in society. Naturally, shokunin use them, 
and to some extent they have taken over the job of the 
middle-level tools, leaving society the very cheap or the 
very expensive tools. In addition, many of the middle-level 
tools that are being produced are made to look like high- 
level tools — dramatic signs are put on plane blades, 
saw handles are wrapped with cane in a samurai-sword 
pattern and fake temper marks are put on sawblades. 
The Japan 
Woodworker 
Catalog 
$1 «50 from: 
Woodline: 
The Japan Woodworker 
1731 Clement Avenue 
Alameda, CA 94501 
Kugihiki noko giri. 
Masterpiece Tools 
Catalog 
$5 from: 
Mahogany Masterpieces 
RFD 1, Wing Road 
Suncook, NH 03275 
Masterpiece Tools 
‘‘Tools-as-jewelry’’ is what we've called the ultra-high- 
quality offerings of such companies as Garrett Wade and 
Woodcraft Supply (p. 169). Their tools can be used of 
course, it’s just that they are so beautiful it seems a 
shame to mess them up. In any case, they are an expres- 
sion of the character of both their makers and users. At 
Masterpiece Tools they take this all a step further: Tools- 
as-Art. Lest you think | exaggerate, check page 22 of 
their gracious catalog: 210mm Tama Hagane Sword Steel 
Ryoba, “’Promise of the Future’’ by Miyana Tetsunosuke. 
$14,400. That’s fourteen thousand, four hundred dollars. 
The catalog takes lots of space to explain what’s going on 
to those of us who know no better. It tells of the master 
saw maker and how he works and why the tools are so 
incredibly perfect. | confess that I’d never thought of tools 
in this way. | also confess that this is the most extreme 
example. There are plenty of tools here in the several- 
hundred-dollar range — planes, chisels, Bonsai instruments, 
and sharpening stones. There are also many that are 
eminently affordable by ordinary workers who will ap- 
preciate and use the extraordinary quality and traditional 
forms. Even if such things aren’t going to tempt you into 
uncontrollable buying, you might enjoy the catalog; it’s 
truly an education in itself. 
—JB 
A 
210mm Tama Hagane Sword Steel Ryoba 
6x6mm double-forked mortise chisel. 
V 
