. 
formance. 
decision. 
“We have to get far 
away from the work- 
shop where we can play 
and forget the business,’’ says Chris Caswell. He and his 
wife, Teresa, build and sell Celtic harps. 
The most essential magazine a small business can get is 
the main trade journal for that particular type of business. 
Inquire of other business owners, or consult The Small 
Business Sourcebook (p. 197) for the best one. 
The most helpful general business magazine I’ve found 
for the small-time operator is In Business, a friendly, low-key 
bimonthly. It runs feature articles about unusual success 
. 
stories: it recently featured a family-run dairy, a short-line 
railroad, and a backwoods bed and breakfast. The 
magazine has regular how-to advice on advertising, 
marketing, and the like. For my own taste, | find In 
Business a bit too tame, reluctant to be blunt or con- 
troversial (a problem you won't, by the way, likely find in 
a trade journal). But it is valuable; | subscribe to it. 
—Bernard Kamoroff 
The Effective Executive 
Wherever there’s a bunch of people doing something, 
somebody is bearing executive relation to the group, 
usually badly, therefore unhappily for everyone, and 
nothing much is going on besides frustration. But some 
leaders are good, and with them a lot happens and every- 
body feels good. This book takes a deep look into how 
“good” executives behave in common. The generalizations 
that emerge are useful to anybody with responsibility, 
from the honcho of a commune to the Pope. 
—Stewart Brand 
6 
The people who get nothing done often work a great 
deal harder. In the first place, they underestimate the 
time for any one task. They always expect that everything 
will go right. Yet, as every executive knows, nothing ever 
goes right. The unexpected always happens — the unex- 
pected is indeed the only thing one can confidently ex- 
pect. And almost never is it a pleasant surprise. Effective 
executives therefore allow a fair margin of time beyond 
what is actually needed. In the second place, the typical 
(that is, the more or less ineffectual) executive tries to 
hurry — and that only puts him further behind. Effective 
executives do not race. They set an easy pace but keep 
going steadily. Finally, the typical executive tries to do 
several things at once. Therefore, he never has the 
minimum time quantum for any of the tasks in his pro- 
gram. If any one of them runs into trouble, his entire 
program collapses. 
® 
Alfred P. Sloan is reported to have said at a meeting 
of one of his top committees: ‘Gentlemen, | take it we 
are all in complete agreement on the decision here.”’ 
Everyone around the table nodded assent. ‘’Then,’’ con- 
10 Tips For Beginning Couples 
Janet and Dick Strombeck, owners of Sun Designs in 
Delafield, Wisconsin, say the following tips are helpful 
for couples who are just breaking into business together: 
1. Be honest with yourself about your egos, emo- 
tions, capabilities and motivation. Discuss feelings with 
your partner. You cannot shortcut on these things. 
2. Have 100 percent faith in each other. 
3. Understand that all people have individual needs. 
Be prepared to bite your tongue and overlook unimpor- 
tant gaffs in the relationship. It may be your day tomor- 
row. Keep your eyes on the major goals and overall per- 
4. Make a list of what you will be giving up person- 
ally (time, money, social life, etc.) and make a conscious 
SMALL B 
5. If you have children at home, talk to them. Tell 
them what you want to do and why, and how it will 
affect them. 
6. Evaluate personal finances. Can you afford this? 
Are you willing to sell equity in a pinch? 
7. Is your health good enough to stand the work 
load? 
8. Prepare for a commitment of time, thoughts and 
finances. 
9. Decide you will have quality in whatever you do 
and make employees understand this. 
10. Believe in yourself and your spouse. Be patient. 
Train yourselves to be positive in overcoming adversity. 
Take a day at a time and it will soon develop into a habi 
and a way of life. 
No deductions for front lawn: 
Generally, decorations, furnishings, and maintenance of 
business premises can be written off (or depreciated) as 
business expenses. When the business is conducted in 
the taxpayer’s home, however, the rules change. Deduc- 
tions are allowed for business use of the taxpayer’s 
residence only if they are allocable to a portion of the 
home used exclusively and regularly as the principal 
place of a trade or business, or to meet clients and 
customers in the course of a business. 
The taxpayer, a professional landscape architect, worked 
out of his home and had his office there. In the yard, on 
display to customers who visited, was his own landscap- 
ing, on which he incurred significant expense. Had the 
landscaping been on different, nonresidential premises, 
some deduction for the planting and upkeep would have 
been likely. However, the IRS noted that the taxpayer's 
home office and his yard were separate portions of his 
residence: the exclusive use attributable to the one did 
not carry over to the other. 
tinued Mr. Sloan, ‘’| propose we postpone further discus- 
sion of this matter until our next meeting to give 
ourselves time to develop disagreement and perhaps 
gain some understanding of what the decision is 
all about.”’ 
When you borrow money is also important in what 
interest rates you pay. You should try to borrow when 
rates are low. This involves proper planning so that you 
are not caught needing money “‘right now,’’ in which 
case you have to pay whatever the loan costs at that time. 
Successful Small 
Business Management 
It’s a fact that certain types of people are likely to suc- 
ceed in a business while others in that same business will 
fail. It has a lot to do with the owner’s personality, ambi- 
tion, temperament, and other ““‘human”’ traits. 
This excellent book identifies and discusses these human 
traits in a logical and well-organized manner. It covers 
pre-start-up, getting started, different types of businesses, 
pricing, selling, advertising, and even accounting from 
the personal perspective of the business owner. 
The authors emphasize that you need to understand the 
common-sense basics of operating a business (which they 
explain well), but that you also need to offer a quality 
product or service, and that you need to treat your 
customers honestly and with respect. 
—Bernard Kamoroff 
USINESS 
LIVELIHOOD 
193 
In Business 
Jerome Goldstein, Editor 
$1 8/year 
(6 issues) from: 
The JG Press 
P. O. Box 323 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
The Effective 
Executive 
Peter F. Drucker 
1967; 192 pp. 
$6.95 
($8.45 postpaid) from: 
Harper and Row 
2350 Virginia Avenue 
Hagerstown, MD 21740 
or Whole Earth Access 
Successful Small 
Business 
Management 
David Seigel and 
Harold Goldman 
1982; 346 pp. 
$1 7.50 postpaid from: 
Fairchild Books & Visuals 
Book Division 
7 East 12th Street 
New York, NY 10003 
or Whole Earth Access 
