128 
Renovation 
Michael Litchfield 
1982; 571 pp. 
$34.95 
postpaid from: 
John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 
1 Wiley Drive 
Somerset, NJ 08873 
or Whole Earth Access 
TIRED 
SISTERS 
A Marvin Round Top 
under construction. 
HOUSEHOLD 
RENOVATION 
The Davenport 
house interior, 
Renovation 
4" AY WOOD 
before and after. 
If | owned a hardware store or ran the local 
lumberyard, I’d buy a desk copy of this book 
for do-it-yourself customers to paw through. 
The ones who should have done some home- 
work before they walked in can here learn 
the names of the things they need. Those with 
questions about the best way to do some- 
thing will find the explanation of methods 
well-integrated in text, line illustration, and 
photographs. Both groups will return to the 
sales desk informed and encouraged. 
In an age when people write books on sub- 
jects they have scarcely mastered, and 
publishers back them, what makes Renova- 
tion shine is experience and teamwork. The 
illustrator used to be a contractor. The pho- 
tographer had previously remodeled a loft and wasn’t 
afraid to lug her camera into grungy buildings. The author 
renovated three houses and had a hand in the beginnings 
of Fine Homebuilding magazine (p. 000). What was sup- 
posed to be a year-long project ended up taking four, 
and several copy editors got burned out along the way, 
but the result is a book that probably won’t have any 
serious competition for years to come. 
—Richard Nilsen 
e@ 
<4 Plywood, used as a flitch plate between two joists or, 
as shown here, as “‘sisters,’’ is very rigid when used on 
edge. It is most effective when glued and screwed to 
the tired joist or joists. 
The Old-House Journal 
of each year’s editorial content. The Restoration Manuals 
are available individually or in sets at great savings. 
The real goodie from these folks is the massive OHJ Buyer's 
Guide Catalog. It lists hard-to-find sources of materials, 
ornaments, recycled house parts, columns, staircases, tin 
ceilings, fixtures, and all the other stuff you’ll need to 
make your place right. 
—JB 
& 
THT 
MULL 
Fix up an old house and “‘you will have made a home 
while cherishing a piece of history — all without destroying 
the beauty of your old house or compromising the unique 
story it has fo tell. Rather, you will have enriched that 
story and made it part of your own.” So say the editors 
of this monthly that is obviously as much a labor of love 
as the restorations they champion. Articles are likely to deal 
with such matters as authentic architectural styling details, 
restoration of windows, and rewiring. The tone is do-it- 
yourself, and generally inspiring. A lively letters depart- 
ment lets readers trade information easily. The ads are 
probably worth the price of the subscription. 
West Coast hipped- 
roof cottage. 
Since 1976, Old-House Journal has printed compendiums 
e The Renovator’s Supply has a tasty selection of old-house 
hardware such as knobs, lamps, and escutcheons. Catalog 
free from Renovator’s Supply, Inc., Renovator’s Old Mill, 
Millers Falls, MA 01349. 
The Old-House Journal: Patricia Poore, Editor; $18/year (10 
issues). The OHJ Yearbook (1985): $18 postpaid. The 1980s 
Set: $69 postpaid. The 1986 Buyer's Guide Catalog: $10.95 
postpaid to OHJ subscribers; $13.95 postpaid to nonsubscrib- 
ers. All from: The Old-House Journal, 69A 7th Avenue, 
Brooklyn, NY 11217. 
