354 
Whole Earth 
Software Catalog 
(for 1986) 
Stewart Brand, 
Editor in Chief 
1985; 224 pp. 
$1 5 postpaid from: 
Whole Earth Review 
27 Gate Five Road 
Sausalito, CA 94965 
or Whole Earth Access 
Hackers 
Steven Levy 
1984; 448 pp. 
$4.50 
($5.25 postpaid) from: 
Dell Books 
P. O. Box 1000 
Pinebrook, NJ 07058-1000 
or Whole Earth Access 
How to Get 
Free Software 
Alfred Glossbrenner 
1984; 432 pp. 
$14.95 
($15.20 postpaid) from: 
St. Martin’s Press 
Cash Sales 
175 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10010 
or Whole Earth Access 
COMMUNICATIONS 
SOFTWARE 
Whole Earth Soft —== 
For presentation graphics . . . 
Catalog 
Tells what to buy. Software, computers, 
books, magazines — all beloved. 
Comparative, informal reviews. Cur- 
rent in September ‘85 — about 20 
percent outdated now. Our choices 
since then appear in the Whole Earth 
Review (see inside front cover). We 
made this book; you'd expect us to 
review it at the expense of its compe- 
tition. However, there isn’t any. We 
have a number of industry acquain- 
tances who would immediately, glee- 
fully inform us if there were other 
software review compendiums — 
worthy or unworthy — with our range 
and currency. So far, there are none. 
Reviewing software is hard. This 
catalog makes your job easier. 
—Art Kleiner 
EXECUVISION 
international symbols. 
IBM PC/XT/AT (256); copy-protected; $395 (street 
price $259); IBM color card and Enhanced 
: 
Graphics Adapter, Tecmar Graphics Master. Input: 
Pee 
keyboard only. Output to Epson and IBM graphics 
Sk Setter 
dot matrix printers; Polaroid Palette; Lang 
Videoslide. With E Z Capture Plus option ($125): 
Output to most dot matrix printers; IBM color 
printer; Diablo Inkjet C-150 and other color 
printers; HP 7475A plotter. VCN, 238 Main St., 
Cambridge, MA 02142; 617/497-4000. 
RIK JADRNICEK: EXECUVISION steps beyond 
the world of basic business graphics with a 
fantastic set of tools for preparing presenta- 
tion graphics. You can freely edit the images 
you create and include them in slideshows. 
You can cut small sections out of an image, 
save them in a library on disk and then paste 
them into other images you create later. 
The creators of EXECUVISION sell libraries 
of graphic shapes you can use, including 
decorative borders, initials and decorative 
designs, faces and figures, and maps and 
The documentation is very thorough and 
extensively illustrated (even showing the IBM 
BRE CKPILESL. 
IMCRS TRANS 
UAL 
Dempster a 
Remaer af Lomtentes Piaames 
< 
See eee a 
& 
i 
r 
% 
3 
8 
% 
This graph didn’t pop up automatically from data. 
it's entirely hand-drawn, with numbers typed 
onscreen, using EXECUVISION. With the E Z 
Capture Plus option, EXECUVISION can use data 
imported from 1-2-3 (p. 68), SYMPHONY (p. 111), 
FRAMEWORK (p. 110), or any screen in 320 x 200 
resolution. 
and its keyboard every step of the way). Let 
the pictures speak for themselves . 
. 
. 
Hackers 
Steven Levy is to computer history what Barbara Tuchman 
is to the 14th Century. He tells how programming 
changes people, how programmers created a subculture, 
and how that subculture changed the whole culture. 
—Art Kleiner 
6 
Something new was coalescing around the TX-0: a new 
way of life, with a philosophy, an ethic, and a dream. 
The Hacker Ethic: 
Access to computers — and anything which might teach 
you something about the way the world works — should 
be unlimited and total. Always yield to the Hands-On 
Imperative! 
Hackers believe that essential lessons can be learned 
about the systems — about the world — from taking 
things apart, seeing how they work, and using this 
knowledge to create new and even more interesting 
things. They resent any person, physical barrier, or law 
that tries to keep them from doing this. 
All information should be free. 
Mistrust Authority — Promote Decentralization. 
The best way to promote this free exchange of information 
is to have an open system, something which presents no 
boundaries between a hacker and a piece of informa- 
tion or an item of equipment that he needs in his quest 
for knowledge, improvement, and time on-line. The last 
thing you need is a bureaucracy. 
Hackers should be judged by their hacking, not bogus 
criteria such as degrees, age, race, or position. 
You can create art and beauty on a computer. 
Computers can change your life for the better. 
How to Get Free Software 
No one we know has a more comprehensive knowledge 
of software then Alfred Glossbrenner. His new book, How 
to Get Free Software, has chapter and verse on the subject. 
The major problem with public domain programs is finding 
out about them and finding where to get them. He takes 
care of both. (The minor problems are dealing with the 
sheer volume of choices and working without manuals.) 
—Stewart Brand 
@ 
Once you get ‘‘plugged in,’’ you'll discover that there is 
an informal network of users groups across the conti- 
nent. Many groups regularly exchange newsletters and 
information, and many share their member-contributed 
free software. 
In almost all users groups there will be a ‘’software 
librarian’’ who has taken the responsibility for organiz- 
ing, building, and maintaining the group’s free software 
collection. Frequently, the librarian and assisting 
members will bring the entire library to the group’s 
monthly meeting. And either before, after, or during the 
meeting, members will be free to pick up any programs 
they want. If you bring your own blank disks, there will 
usually be a copying charge of about $1 to help main- 
tain the library. But often a club will be able to provide 
you with a disk at a discounted price. (If you do bring 
your own floppies, try to format them beforehand.) 
Indeed, if you are interested in programming, free soft- 
ware can provide a wonderful learning experience. 
Unlike most commercial software, the vast majority of 
public domain programs are “‘listable.’’ That means you 
can print out and review the program itself and see how 
its author accomplished (or failed to accomplish) a par- 
ticular goal. This can alert you to interesting techniques 
or save you from making similar mistakes. And in some 
cases it can teach you more about BASIC, Pascal, assem- 
bler, and other languages than many textbooks can. 
Software by Mail 
Substantial deals here. 800-SOFTWARE offers free help 
after the sale — sometimes better than what you get from 
the software manufacturer. They have a crack team of ad- 
visors, and a really good newsletter. You pay a little more 
money for this. LOGIC-SOFT discounts deeply — they of- 
fer to beat any cheaper price you find by $10. | and 
others have had good luck with them. They ship every 
order over $100 by Purolator Courier, free. COMPUTER 
MAIL ORDER has the widest range. At reasonable prices, 
they sell software for just about any type of computer. 
—Saul Feldman 
800-SOFTWARE: (800) 225-9273 
LOGIC-SOFT: (800) 645-3491 
COMPUTER MAIL ORDER: (800) 233-8950 
