f 
COMMUNITY 
BIOHAZARDS 107 
Love Canal 
Lois Gibbs describes herself — “before Love Canal’’ — as 
a typical ‘dumb housewife, ’’ preoccupied with raising 
her children, keeping a tidy house, and pursuing her hob- 
bies. In December 1977, three months after her son started 
kindergarten, he developed epilepsy and a lowered white 
blood count. Soon afterward, she read in the local paper 
that her son’s school had been built on an abandoned 
chemical dump, where Hooker Chemical and Plastics 
Corporation had dumped over 43 million pounds of tox- 
ic industrial wastes before selling the site to the school 
board for one dollar. Mrs. Gibbs’ battle to transfer her 
son to another school grew into all-out war against local, 
state, and federal governments, resulting in national 
publicity and — finally — a federal order to relocate 
some one thousand families whose homes had become 
deathtraps. The Love Canal battle alerted the nation to 
the hazards of thousands of toxic time bombs hidden 
across the country by negligent, unscrupulous industries. 
—Carol Van Strum 
Be careful you don’t step in any goop.’’ We showed him 
some of the holes. He got a sinus headache from the 
walk across the canal. He said he felt it immediately. As 
we went across the canal, we found one of those black 
holes that is so deep that you can’t get a stick to the 
bottom of it. You pull the stick out and see black gunk its 
entire length. 
We showed him the barrel that was coming to the surface 
right near Debbie Cerrillo’s swimming pool and the hole 
with the black gunk in her yard. Pete Bulka lived next 
door to Debbie. Pete had been complaining to the City 
Love Canal 
of Niagra Falls for a long time, but nothing was ever 
Lois Marie Gibbs 
done. Pete explained how his sump pump had to be 
as told to Murray Levine 
replaced every few months because it corroded. The 
1982; 174 pp. 
county health commissioner wanted to cap everyone's 
$6.95 
sump pump because they were pumping chemicals from 
the canal into the storm sewers and then into the Niagra 
River. He acted as if it were the citizens’ fault that they 
were pumping poison into the river, that it was better 
that it just stayed in people’s basements. 
($8.45 postpaid) from: 
Grove Press 
Order Dept. 
196 West Houston Street 
New York, NY 10014 
or Whole Earth Access 
Hazardous Waste in America 
The compendium of information about the particular 
components of the 80 billion pounds of hazardous waste 
materials generated annually by American industries — 
350 pounds per year for each inhabitant of the U.S. The 
book includes a directory of 8000 toxic dumps located in 
all 50 states; a field guide to locating undisclosed waste 
sites; a selection of case studies of toxic dumps and their 
tragic human toll; an excellent ‘‘citizen’s legal guide to 
hazardous wastes’’; and an intelligent, emphatic discus- 
sion of the political, legal, practical, and philosophical 
solutions to a toxic nightmare that is all too real. 
—Carol Van Strum 
The cream of the crap, so to speak. 
—Peter Warshall 
Some wastes are effectively immortal; their toxic qualities 
are intrinsic to their elemental structure. The heavy metals 
are in this category, and, in a different sense, so is asbes- 
tos, whose toxicity is a function of its physical structure, 
which, for practical purposes, is indestructible. Some 
radioactive wastes, particularly uranium and plutonium, 
retain their radioactive properties for so long that we 
should also view them as immortal. 
A second group of wastes is semi-mortal. Destruction or 
degradation occurs in the environment, but very slowly. 
Chlorinated hydrocarbons, especially complex ones, are 
semi-mortal in natural environments, but can be 
destroyed in high-temperature incinerators. 
A third group of toxics is very short-lived or mortal, 
including acids and bases and other strongly reactive 
materials like cyanides, which are rapidly destroyed or 
neutralized in the environment. 
Citizen’s Clearinghouse 
for Hazardous Waste 
Founded by Lois ‘‘Love Canal’’ Gibbs. Assists grassroots 
struggles about waste dumps. “’Organize’’ is their battle 
cry and they‘re the best. Everyone's Backyard is their 
quarterly. CCHW’s Action Bulletin covers the nation. 
Good reviews and access. A wonderful spirit of hope 
and rightful action exudes from their clamoring. Just what 
tons of toxic goop requires. 
—Peter Warshall 
Citizen's Clearinghouse for Hazardous Waste: Membership 
$15/year (includes 4 issues of Everyone's Backyard and 
periodic Action Bulletins) from Citizens Clearinghouse for 
Hazardous Waste, P. O. Box 926, Arlington, VA 22216. 
Biohazards: Concerned Groups 
Federation of Homemakers, Inc. The homemaker 
bloodhounds that sniff out poisonous hanky-panky in 
foods, drugs, and cosmetics. To protect their families 
they police the FDA. The group where Ralph Nader 
seeks advice. 
Membership $10/year (includes 4 issues of their newsletter) 
from Federation of Homemakers, Inc., P. O. Box 5571, 
Arlington, VA 22205. 
Environmental Action. The national political lobby that 
created Earth Day. Coordinated efforts on the Clean Air 
Act, Clean Water Act, Occupational and Safety Act, Toxic 
Substances Control Act, etc. Best magazine. 
Hazardous Waste 
in America 
Samuel S. Epstein, M.D., 
Lester O. Brown, Carl Pope 
1982; 593 pp. 
$12.95 
($15.45 postpaid) from: 
Sierra Club Books 
730 Polk Street 
San Francisco, CA 94109 
or Whole Earth Access 
Membership $20/year (includes 6 issues of Environmental 
Action) from Environmental Action, 1525 New Hampshire 
Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036. 
National Coalition Against the Misuse of Pesticides 
(NCAMP). Be it insecticide, herbicide, rodenticide, or 
fungicide, NCAMP has the long and short of it. 
A broad-spectrum coalition (farmers, churches, labor, 
health, homemakers and politicos) who stress less 
damaging alternatives like Integrated Pest Management 
(see p. 81). Pesticides and You is their most potent 
newsletter. 
Membership $10/year (includes 5 issues of Pesticides and 
You) from NCAMP, 530 Seventh Street SE, Washington, 
DC 20003. 
Society for Occupational and Environmental Health. The 
academic neutral forum has conferences with papers like 
“Sperm Count Suppression in Lead-Exposed Men’’ and 
“Spontaneous Abortion and Type of Work.’’ Mainly for 
higher income brackets, but their knowledge is a powerful 
aid to all workers who contract an occupational disease. 
Membership $50/year (includes 6 issues of The Archives of 
Environmental Health Journal and 4 issues of the SOEH 
Letter) from Society for Occupational and Environmental 
Health, 2021 K Street NW, Suite 305, Washington, 
DC 20006. 
Northwest Coalition for Alternatives to Pesticides 
(NCAP). More action. NCAP takes the broadest poli- 
tical overview of pesticides on the planet. Their muck- 
raking is a bit too anxious to get me bloody scared, 
but they’re here to inform and help and they do it 
well. Publishes Journal of Pesticide Reform and 
great info on herbicide spraying in forests. 
Membership $12/year (includes 4 issues of Journal of 
Pesticide Reform) from Northwest Coalition for Alternatives 
to Pesticides, P. O. Box 1393, Eugene, OR 97440. 
—Peter Warshall 
—Environmental Action 
