Galloway's Book on Running 
_ Standing Inner Biceps Curl 
| Inner Biceps 
|e Stand erect with feet 16’ apart. 
|e Keep back straight, head up, hips' 
Back in the dark ages of running — ten years ago — the 
only way to learn was by making your own mistakes and 
then attempting to figure out what had gone wrong. 
Sooner or later the dedicated runner experienced every- 
thing from tendonitis and failed knees to orthotics and the 
high cost of sports medicine. Those who were lucky are 
still running while those who were not are lame forever. 
Getting Stronger 
Until recently, the beginning weightlifter had only a few 
_ unenthused manuals to assist in training. But now Bill Pearl, 
a four-time Mr. Universe, has come out with a book for 
_ the beginner and intermediate. It not only introduces 
| weightlifting but goes on to give specific programs for 
| strength training in 19 sports. From running, swimming, 
| and cycling to tennis, skiing, and soccer, there are 
specific routines designed to increase strength and 
improve performance. 
The book gives a core group of all the basic lifts with 
illustrations and explanations, and for each sport there’s 
a specific series of exercises selected from the core group. 
_ The routines were developed with some impressively qual- 
| ified coaches, like Doc Councilman on swimming and 
John Howard on cycling, and the reader benefits from 
their wisdom. 
—Dick Fugett 
© Hold dumbbells. 
and legs locked. 
@ Start with dumbbells at arm’s 
length, palms in, at sides of 
upper thighs. 
¢ Curl dumbbells out and up, 
rotating wrists to turn palms 
up. Keep forearms in line with 
outer deltoids. 
e Lower dumbbells to starting 
position using same path. 
e Inhale up, exhale down. 
¢ The best known running book, now nine years old. 
The Complete Book of Running: James F. Fixx, 1977; 
314 pp. $13.95 ($14.95 postpaid) from Random House, 
Order Dept., 400 Hahn Road, Westminster, MD 21157 (or 
Whole Earth Access). 
The most efficient way to run is to have your head, neck 
and shoulders erect, as at right. When you run leaning 
forward, as at left, you’re always fighting gravity. 
If books like this had been around there’d be more old 
runners running and fewer of us sitting around wishing 
we'd known then what we know now. Galloway, a former 
Olympic team member, covers everything from training 
and injuries to physiology and nutrition in an easy to read 
volume that is as relevant to a casual jogger as to an 
experienced marathoner. In addition, he has anecdotes 
from 25 years of running that give the book both a per- 
sonal flavor and an inside look at what it’s like at the top. 
—Dick Fugett 
Stride Length. Believe it or not, a longer stride will not 
lead to faster running. Experienced competitive runners 
find that their stride length shortens as they run faster. A 
key to faster running is stride frequency. If you increase 
the speed of your footfall and get a good strong pushoff 
you'll improve. Most runners I’ve worked with have too 
long a stride. 
Exercisewalking 
will), keep in mind that walking (quickly) is surpassed 
only by swimming as a whole body workout. To earn as 
many aerobic points as you do running, you'll have to 
walk up hills or stairs, or carry weights, or spend more 
time moving. This book tells how. It’s a lifelong exercise. 
—Kevin Kelly 
@ 
While it’s true that the 
average walking speed of 
2-3 mph per hour (60-90 
steps per minute) is not 
sufficient to raise your 
heart rate into the training 
zone of 60-85 percent of 
maximum capacity, there 
are ways to overcome this. 
One way, of course, is to 
increase your pace (more 
than 3.5 mph). Others in- 
clude walk climbing or 
stair climbing. But perhaps 
the most clever walk-to- 
work training routine is 
walking with a weight- 
loaded backpack. 
Aerobic walking. 
Runner’s World « The Runner 
Although the bloom has faded along with the publicity, 
the running boom produced a multitude of converts, 
from joggers sold on the physical and mental rewards 
to the hardcore runners who can’t do without that 
race-day energy. 
Back in the boom days Runner's World was the only 
show in town, but over the years The Runner kept trying 
harder, and that vitality produced a wider-ranging maga- 
zine. Runner's World, recently purchased by Rodale 
Publications of Organic Gardening fame, keeps a tight 
focus on running. Take your choice. 
—Dick Fugett 
Runner's World: James C. McCullagh, Editor. $19.95/year 
(12 issues) from Rodale Press, 33 East Minor Street, Emmaus, 
PA 18049. 
The Runner: Marc A. Bloom, Editor. $16.97/year (12 issues) 
from The Runner, P. O. Box 2730, Boulder, CO 80302. 
Attention joggers: When your joints give out (and they 
HEALTH 
FITNESS 239 
Galloway’s Book 
On Running 
Jeff Galloway 
1984; 287 pp. 
$8.95 
($10.45 postpaid) from: 
Home Book Service 
P.O. Box 650 
Bolinas, CA 94924 
or Whole Earth Access 
Getting Stronger 
Bill Pearl with 
Gary Moran, Ph.D. 
1986; 320 pp. 
($14.45 postpaid) from: 
Home Book Service 
P.O. Box 650 
Bolinas, CA 94924 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Complete 
Book of 
| 
Exercisewalking 
Gary D. Yanker 
1983; 266 pp. 
$9.95 
($11.95 postpaid) from: 
Contemporary Books 
180 North Michigan Ave. 
Chicago, IL 60601 
or Whole Earth Access 
