very small. 
Designing and Maintaining 
Your Edible Landscape Naturally 
Edible landscaping is a new term for an old idea. It is a 
reaction to the lawns and shrubs that make many subur- 
ban yards look so boring. Its goal is to integrate food 
plants into the landscape: specifically to liberate fruits 
and vegetables from rectangular prisons often hidden out 
at the back of the lot. Bring those salad herbs up and put 
them right outside the kitchen door where they will be 
tended and used. And put the peaches (dwarf) under a 
south-facing eave of the roof where they can enjoy max- 
imum frost protection and warmth. 
What used to be common sense was lost when people 
stopped growing any of their own food and ran out of 
time even to be in their gardens, let alone work them. 
That is changing, and these books suggest that vegetable 
gardening can also be aesthetic. 
Robert Kourik has produced a classic homemade book in 
the best sense of the term. His mind works referentially and 
fortunately by publishing his own book he didn’t have to 
meet up with a linear-minded editor eager to streamline 
his work. The book is massive, detailed, and totally indexed. 
It is full of charts and graphs that allow the kind of com- 
paring and decision-making that landscape designing is 
all about. There is extensive information on selecting fruit 
tree varieties and appropriate rootstocks. 
When planting a grafted 
tree, face the bowed area of 
the graft into the wird. 
EDIBLE LANDSCAPING 
This colorful patio planting 
combines red and green 
chard, red-leaved lettuce, 
and a miniature ‘Garden 
Prince’ almond with 
ornamentals. It exhibits two 
important rules of edible 
landscaping: put the salad 
vegetables as close to the 
kitchen as possible, and start 
” NORTH 
=___ IF POSSIBLE 
Best of all, he is not dogmatic. If there are two schools of 
thought, say till versus no-till gardening, he will explain 
the advantages and disadvantages of each in different 
situations. Like all gardening books, this one is written 
with a sense of place in mind (northern California), but 
Kourik is aware that your garden, right down to its micro- 
climates, is unique. 
—Richard Nilsen 
The amount of effort needed to sustain a landscape or 
garden is, perhaps, the single most important design 
consideration. Planting happens quickly, at the peak of 
the gardener’s enthusiasm. Maintenance usually ends up 
being crammed into busy, everyday life. 
Another way to understand the sunlight patterns and the 
microclimates of your yard is simply to 
grow vegetables. 
Instead of designing a landscape just anes moving into 
your new home, wait and observe the yard through a 
complete cycle of seasons. For at least a year, grow 
edibles in a number of spots that seem to have beneficial 
sunlight and climate. You will probably get a very good 
feel for the nuances of sunshine patterns, frost pockets, 
windy spots, wet soils, rocky soils, and other important 
information before designing your edible landscape. The 
placement of your first edibles may turn out to be ill- 
advised or just right. 
HPBooks 
Trying to keep a young orange tree alive during a string 
of 20-degree nights and serious bug attacks had me look- 
ing for heip, and when | asked my main nurseryman what 
to do, he reached back into the compact library behind 
the counter and pulled out his central citrus authority. It 
looked to me like another of the ORTHO series so | was 
anticipating a once-over-lightly approach, but instead 
there was a complete and thorough reference. The book 
was put out by HP Publishing in Arizona and was a most 
readable and informative volume, and led to my 
discovery of the wide range of their other gardening 
books. 
The ORTHO similarity is genetic, for both operations were 
directly influenced by the Sunset garden book series that 
began in the ‘50s. But HP tried harder and surpassed the 
competition. Their books have more pages, more informa- 
tion, more color photos, and a middle-of-the-road approach 
to the chemical vs. organic philosophy. Currently 22 
different gardening titles are offered. 
_—Dick Fugett 
HP titles include: Home Landscaping in the Northeast 
and Midwest; Southern Home Landscaping; Western 
Home Landscaping; Plants for Dry Climates; How to 
Grow Fruit, Berries & Nuts in the Midwest and East; 
Western Fruit, Berries & Nuts; Vegetables; Perennials; 
Bulbs; Annuals; Trees & Shrubs; Citrus. 
Country Wisdom Bulletins 
Garden Way Publishing has an ever-expanding series of 
32-page booklets that are worth knowing about. There 
are nearly a hundred of them now, mostly on specific 
aspects of gardening, cooking, and householding. Sam- 
ple titles include ‘“What Every Gardener Should Know 
About Earthworms,”’ “‘Grow the Best Tomatoes, ’’ “’Cur- 
ing Smoky Fireplaces,’’ and ‘Attracting Birds.’’ They are 
great for people who like their information short and 
sweet, for kids, for teaching situations, and for nosing 
around o subject that’s new to you. 
—Richard Nilsen 
% 
Earthworms form an interconnected web of channels 
which allow rain water to penetrate quickly throughout 
the topsoil layer. 
WITH WORMS 
LAND USE 69 
Designing and 
Maintaining Your 
Edible Landscape 
Naturally 
Robert Kourik 
1986; 400 pp. 
$16.95 
($18.95 postpaid) from: 
The Edible Landscape 
Book Project 
P.O. Box 1841 
Santa Rosa, CA 95402 
or Whole Earth Access 
HPBooks 
$9.90-$11.90 
each, postpaid 
HP booklist free from: 
HPBooks 
P. O. Box 5367 
Tucson, AZ 85703 
or Whole Earth Access 
Country Wisdom 
Bulletins 
32 pp. 
$1.95 (53.95 postpaid) 
List of titles free; all from: 
Garden Way Publishing 
Storey Communications 
Schoolhouse Road 
Pownal, VT 05261 
or Whole Earth Access 
