South Pacific Handbook 
e Indonesia Handbook 
A sumptuous feast of detail. On one page, a map of the 
routes of Fiji passenger ships; on another, the stamps of 
the Solomon Islands; on another, the cost of the. hot dogs 
in Honiara. Essentials, bonuses: all here, all extraor- 
dinarily accurate and up-to-date. In American Samoa, 
where | live, South Pacific Handbook has scooped even 
the most inventive island travelers. The best guidebook 
this road junkie has seen anywhere. 
Even more than for its accuracy or its graphics, | value 
this book for its ethics. On the first page, Stanley stresses 
that his is a book for the traveler, not the tourist. He de- 
cries the tourism that debases, distorts, and leeches upon 
the traditional island cultures. He lists in the book the 
basic facilities used by the people themselves. He urges 
open exchange between traveler and host: ‘“You not only 
learn more and spend less but you actually become part 
of the country while you're there.’ | only wish more guides 
were as sensitive to the impact of their words. 
There is a companion guide called the Indonesia Hand- 
book — worth checking into if you’re headed that way. 
—Robert Brock 
@ 
Mauke: There’s a good beach on the E side at Arapaea 
landing, but the best beaches are on the S side of the 
island. Especially inviting is the beach at Anaokae, 
where a long stretch of clean white sand rings a green 
lagoon. This piece of paradise is flanked by rugged 
limestone cliffs, and backed by palm, pine, and pan- 
danus. A short track leads down to the beach. No one 
lives on the S or E sides of Mauke, so these fine secluded 
beaches are ideal for those who want to be completely 
alone. There’s good reef walking at low tide on the W 
side of Mauke. 
The People’s Guide to Mexico 
The best 360° coverage of traveling and short term living 
in Mexico that’s going. Reading the book is almost like 
being there and going through the problems, pleasures 
and wonders of dealing with a new environment, new 
people and new ways of doing things. But by golly every 
page, every step of the way you’re learning something. 
Carl is candid, and leaves few, if any, questions unanswered 
in telling you how to handle just about everything: border 
crossing, driving in Mexico, public transportation, hitching, 
camping, indigenous living (living on the beach, building 
a hut, stove, digging a well, etc.) and scrounging for food, 
renting a house, legal hassles, communication services, 
car repairs, the language and customs, cantinas and 
whorehouses, buying things, and so forth. A fantastic 
book and well written. 
—Al Perrin 
This book has probably compelled more people to visit 
Mexico than all the travel agents in the world combined. 
Although updated recently, you won't find the usual menu 
of prices, hotel names, and places to see; you‘ll need a 
different kind of guidebook for that. 
—KK 
The Mexican custom of packing up the entire family for a 
Christmas or Easter vacation at the beach has created a 
© Before leaving on any trip you may want to read Zen and 
the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance (p. 385) just to get 
loosened up. 
e For a real trip, cruise your VW bus through the Sahara. 
Here’s how. 
Sahara Handbook: Simon and Jan Glen, 1980; 316 pp. $29.95 
($31.95 postpaid) from Bradt Enterprises, 93 Harvey Street, 
Apt. 8, Cambridge, MA 02140. 
la 
~<. 
ANGATAURA LANDING 
GOOD 
NOMADICS 
GUIDES 257 
The zebra or lionfish (Pter- 
ois volitans) is among the 
most toxic in the Pacific. 
‘ts striking red coloration 
Let’s Go: Europe 
Each summer a select band of Harvard students tramps 
Europe rewriting the next edition of this reliable classic. 
It’s a two-decade-old tradition that requires them to com- 
pletely revise and dazzlingly outdo the previous edition. 
Even if you are not intending to zoom around the entire 
continent, buy this rotund book and razor-blade out the 
sections you won't get to, keeping what you need. You'll 
still have the most economical guide to economical hotels 
and eating places in Europe you can get. Lively and 
accurate. They did their homework well. A-plus job. 
The Harvard students have an expanding line of country- 
specific guides (Italy, Greece, etc.), equally dependable. 
—KK [Suggested by Walt Noiseaux] 
Finding a place to sleep in Segovia [Spain] is seldom a 
problem, even in August, since so many travelers mistak- 
enly limit Segovia to a daytrip. The area surrounding 
Plaza Mayor has the highest concentration of places. 
Albergue Juvenil, Paseo Conde de Sepulveda (tel. 
42 00 27). An unofficial hostel. A great place to stay — 
quiet, uncrowded, close to town, few rules, and no 
lockout. 325ptas [about $2.50]. Open July-Aug. 
Casa de Huespedes Velarde, P|. de Guevara, 3 (tel. 
43 16 99), near the Trinidad Church. Flowers on the win- 
dowsills and the cheapest in town — arrive early. Singles 
500ptas [about $4.50], doubles 900ptas. Showers 
125 ptas. 
large number of rental houses and apartments designed 
for groups. These are generally known as bungalos and 
cabanas. Because most are fully equipped, from linen to 
kitchen utensils, they can be ideal for the foreign tourist. 
This is especially true for people with children, who don’t 
want to be cooped up with them in a hotel room or 
forced to rent two rooms to get a little privacy. 
Building 
a palapa. 
and long spines may be 
nature’s warning. 
South Pacific 
Handbook 
David Stanley 
1986; 578 pp. 
$13.95 
($15.20 postpaid) 
indonesia 
Handbook 
Bill Dalton 
1985; 602 pp. 
$12.95 
($14.20 postpaid) 
Both from: 
Moon Publications 
P.O. Box 1696 
Chico, CA 95927 
or Whole Earth Access 
Let’s Go 
(The Budget Guide 
to Europe) 
Harvard Student 
Agencies, Inc. 
1986; 841 pp. 
$10.95 
($12.45 postpaid) from: 
St. Martin’s Press 
175 5th Avenue 
New York, NY 10010 
or Whole Earth Access 
The People’s Guide 
to Mexico 
Carl Franz 
1986; 624 pp. 
$10.95 
($12.70 postpaid) from: 
John Muir Publications 
P. O. Box 613 
Santa Fe, NM 87504 
or Whole Earth Access 
