292 
The Kolb FireStar, 
piloted by 
Homer Kolb. 
—Ultralight 
Flying! 
Ultralight Flying! 
Michael Bradford, Editor 
$24lyear 
(12 issues) from: 
Ultralight Flying! 
P.O. Box 6009 
Chattanooga, TN 37401 
Ultralight 
Airmanship 
Jack Lambie 
1984; 144 pp. 
$10.95 
($13.90 postpaid) from: 
Ultralight Publications 
P.O. Box 234 
Hummelstown, PA 17036 
An example of wind 
with no lift. 
INVERSION 
COOL AIR 
NOMADICS 
ULTRALIGHTS 
LTRALIGHTS WERE SPAWNED when a flatland, midwestern hang glider pilot, desperate for 
lack of launch sites, attached a snowmobile engine to his kite and took off under power. Being 
airborne without dependency on thermals was a delight, and as news of the feat spread, others 
began making similar devices. They were not always as airworthy as they were creative. 
The FAA had watched hang gliding develop and 
found it to be a self-disciplined group that knew its 
place and presented no major menace to the public, 
so no seriously restrictive regulations were imposed. 
Ultralights, at first indistinguishable from hang 
gliders, benefited from this freedom and redis- 
covered what had been lost back in the primeval 
1920s — powered flight without legal restraints. 
The sky was available to Everyman, and the con- 
siderable discipline and effort required to master 
hang gliding or earn a private pilot’s license were 
unnecessary. Free wine on skid row would have had 
no warmer welcome, and as demand skyrocketed 
backyard builders became manufacturing tycoons. 
Glorious optimism and the future of ultralights 
were synonomous. 
But alas, that movement is now better compared 
to the Bataan death march, for booming sales and 
effervescent predictions have been reduced to disap- 
pearing customers and bankrupt factories. Rapacious 
If very high in a thermal, perhaps over 14,000 feet, you 
will find it is almost impossible to tell the effect of oxygen 
starvation because the brain is the first organ to be af- 
fected. How can you comprehend what's going on if you 
can’t think? Some experts say, ‘’Look at your fingertips to 
see if the color under the nails is turning bluish, to in- 
dicate lack of air.’” This sounds fine except you can’t 
think well enough to decide whether they are blue or not 
and to what degree. 
The effects of altitude vary between people. | get an 
uneasy feeling of impending doom called ‘’Dreads’’ 
WIND p> 
manufacturers, scofflaw pilots, and too many ding- 
bats falling out of the sky are bringing this form of 
aerial joy to a painful transition. Perhaps flight that 
hasn’t been earned with effort is too easy. Too bad, 
for ultralights generated some of the most creative 
ideas in aviation design. 
The FAA issued serious regulations that resulted 
in the demise of ultralights as unlicensed, powered 
hang gliders. Small, licensed aircraft known as ARVs 
(Aerial Recreation Vehicles) will be the next step. 
Unregulated flight will conclude, leaving behind 
nought but a few old-timers telling war stories about 
that time the engine in their Weedhopper quit and... 
The shifting fortunes of the ultralight movement 
are best reflected in the oldest magazine, Ultralight 
Flying!, known for years as Glider Rider. As for 
books, Jack Lambie continually puts out the best 
stuff, and his Ultralight Airmanship is worthwhile 
reading for any aviation enthusiast. 
—Dick Fugett 
while others have the same symptoms as being ‘’Drunk.’’ 
| notice my peripheral vision pulls in about 30 degrees 
so it seems as if | can only see clearly straight ahead. 
The sound of the wind becomes very quiet and the cold 
of high altitude is not so noticeable. | see little ‘’blips,’’ 
like the stars you see if you bump your head. Little dots 
pop up in front of my eyes and disappear. 
A good way to check your condition is by doing what 
the Navy calls ‘’Grunt Breathing.’’ Take a deep breath, 
holding your mouth closed, and grunt to pressurize your 
lungs. You will immediately hear better and the vision 
out of the corner of your eyes will clear. The effect lasts 
only a few seconds but by grunt breathing you can see 
how much you change immediately after pressurizing 
your lungs. 
—Ultralight Airmanship 
