20 FUTURE 
Engines of 
Creation 
K. Eric Drexler 
1986; 298 pp. 
$1 7.95 postpaid from: 
Doubleday & Co. 
Direct Mail Order 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth Access 
World Future 
Society 
Membership 
$25 year 
(includes The Futurist) 
Future Survey 
Michael Marien, Editor 
$49 year (12 issues) 
All from: 
World Future Society 
4916 St. Elmo Avenue 
Bethesda, MD 20814 
Yesterday’s 
Tomorrows 
Joseph J. Corn and 
Brian Horrigan, Editors 
1984; 158 pp. 
$1 7.95 postpaid from: 
Simon & Schuster 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
or Whole Earth Access 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
Engines of Creation 
The Last Technological Revolution is upon us: ‘‘nanotech- 
nology’’ — the science of building molecules to order. 
What this might mean for good or bad is enthusiastically 
examined in this lively book. There is some gee-whizzing; 
how could there not be when the potentials include cell 
repair, disease reduction, and life extension? Ebullience is 
balanced by a serious discussion of the potential for hor- 
rifying weaponry, and the social disorder that could result 
from thoughtless incorporation of nanotechnology into an 
unprepared populace. The book is remarkably wide- 
visioned and comprehensively based: most unusual for 
this sort of thing. Future-reading at its best. 
—JB 
@ 
Not human whims but the unchanging laws of nature 
draw the line between what is physically possible and 
what is not — no political act, no social movement can 
change the law of gravity one whit. So however futuristic 
they may seem, sound projections of technological 
possibilities are quite distinct from predictions. 
The simplest medical applications of nanomachines will 
involve not repair but selective destruction. Cancers pro- 
vide one example; infectious diseases provide another. The 
goal is simple: one need only recognize and destroy the 
dangerous replicators, whether they are bacteria, cancer 
cells, viruses, or worms. Similarly, abnormal growths and 
deposits on arterial walls cause much heart disease; 
machines that recognize, break down, and dispose of 
them will clear arteries for more normal blood flow. 
Selective destruction will also cure diseases such as 
herpes in which a virus splices its genes into the DNA of 
a host cell. A repair device will enter the cell, read its 
DNA, and remove the addition that spells ‘“herpes.’” 
SE 
SS 
SS 
I I IE 
TT 
ES OEE 
ESS DI DET 
I A 
TEE IE IES TT 
TTB TIT 
IE TTT TD, 
The World Future Society 
More interested in possibilities than predictions, the World 
Future Society conducts ongoing discussions amongst its 
25,000 members. Their magazine, The Futurist, works 
over ideas both nasty and nice, not mere pie-in-the-sky 
stuff. The editor fortunately avoids academic dead-serious 
Yesterday’s Tomorrows 
It’s hard to say which is most salient in these visions of 
how we were going to be living today: prescience, hubris, 
or naivete. In any case, a look at this book should induce 
a certain humility in our own prognostications of the 
future, despite the ‘‘advances’’ we enjoy. 
—JB 
William Robinson Leigh, ‘Visionary City,’’ 1908. The dizzying 
pace of growth in Manhattan around the turn of the century 
was clearly the inspiration for Leigh’s exquisite drawing, 
published as a magazine illustration in 1908. 
essays, preferring to look at subjects with an open mind 
and unafraid of controversy. You'll probably find the same 
attitude in the World Future Society chapter near you. 
The Society also publishes Future Survey, a monthly 
abstract of matters futurist from books, articles, and other 
sources. The book reviews are particularly good. | find 
that | keep up with futurist thought a lot more easily in 
this publication than in any other, including The Futurist. 
—JB 
Is owning a telephone and a computer a right or a privi- 
lege? This question will be at the center of one of the 
most critical issues of the next 10 years. The resolution of 
it will answer an impending question the government 
and the 
private sector are anxious to have answered: Which will 
contribute more to public militance — greater access to 
information or more restricted access to information? 
—The Futurist 
@ 
Age Wars: The Coming Battle Between Young and Old, 
Phillip Longman (Americans for Generational Equity, 
Washington), The Futurist, 20:1, Jan-Feb 1986, 8-11. 
Today’s prosperity is being purchased at the eventual ex- 
pense of today’s younger citizens and those yet unborn. 
The early decades of the next century may bring a war 
between the generations, as tomorrow’s elderly attempt 
to compel the young to honor the compounding debts of 
the present era: 1) the delayed repairs to the physical in- 
frastructure (roads, bridges, etc.); 2) the postponed safe 
disposal of toxic wastes; 3) running down supplies of 
topsoil, energy, and clean water; 4) the massive Federal 
deficit (financing the interest charges alone on this year’s 
deficit will cost the average citizen now entering the 
work force an extra $10,000 in taxes over his or her 
lifetime); 5) failing to save for the retirement of the baby 
boom generation (by 2035, there could be fewer than 
two workers for each retiree). The baby boomers will 
pass an impossible encumbrance on to their children, 
and/or face an impoverished old age. Indeed, the baby 
boomers are already in the grip of real downward mo- 
bility: between 1973 and 1983, real after-tax income of 
households headed by a person 25-34 declined by nearly 
19%. Concludes that younger Americans must encourage 
government to institute reforms in their own and the 
nation’s long-term interest. 
—Future Survey 
SE 
ER 
IS TS LISTS 
BS 
TI AT ET 
¢ Professional futurists have it out in this academic journal. 
Futures: David Green, Editor. $60/year (12 issues) from 
Quadrant Subscription Services Limited, Oakfield House, 
Perrymount Road, Hayward Heath, RH 3DH England. 
¢ Requisite reading for serious predictors. International, 
accurate, and witty. 
The Economist: Rupert Pennant-Rey, Editor. $85/year (51 
issues) from The Economist, Subscription Service Dept., P. O. 
Box 904, Farmingdale, NY 11737. 
