356 LEARNING 
The Amazing 
Newborn 
Marshall Klaus, M.D., and 
Phyllis Klaus, M.Ed., C.S.W. 
1985; 145 pp. 
$10.53 
postpaid from: 
Addison-Wesley 
Publishing Co. 
1 Jacob Way 
Reading, MA 01867 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Womanly Art 
of Breastfeeding 
La Leche League 
International 
1981; 368 pp. 
$7.95 
($9.45 postpaid) from: 
New American Library 
120 Woodbine Street 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621 
or Whole Earth Access 
Crying Baby, 
Sleepless Nights 
Sandy Jones 
1983; 293 pp. 
$7.95 
($8.95 postpaid) from: 
Warner Books 
P. O. Box 690 
New York, NY 10019 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Amazing Newborn 
Become immersed in the world of the newborn. All the 
photographs in this book are of babies less than ten days 
old and illustrate well ‘each of the special and often 
newly discovered capacities with which human beings 
begin life. ’’ 
| am troubled by the idea of experimentation with 
newborns and some of the text is based on it. But this is 
mostly overshadowed by observations of infant behavior in 
real life. The Amazing Newborn is sensitive, revealing, in- 
spirational, and transforming in adding appreciation and 
understanding of the newborn as real humans. 
—Peggy O’Mara McMahon 
The Womanly Art 
of Breastfeeding 
We have La Leche League International to thank for 
reversing the trend away from breastfeeding that was 
prevalent 25 years ago; today over 50 percent of women 
choose breastfeeding (90 percent in some areas). Thirteen 
years ago, when | was pregnant with my first child, | kept 
this book in the bathroom and read it over and over again 
and again to gain the confidence to breastfeed. The 
Womanly Art of Breastfeeding reassures you that every- 
one can breastfeed and tells you everything you need to 
know for success. A traditional view of mothering is em- 
phasized because the authors — seven founding mothers 
of La Leche League — have found that many traditional 
values help insure the physical closeness and contact 
necessary for breastfeeding. First published in 1958 and 
updated over the years, this book has become the 
breastfeeding bible. 
—Peggy O’Mara McMahon 
Becky Herbin holds her son Michael close with his body 
facing her, and uses her fingers to shape her nipple so he can 
grasp it properly. 
Right after birth, within the first hour of life, normal 
infants have a prolonged period of quiet alertness, 
averaging forty minutes, during which they look directly 
at their mother’s and father’s face and eyes and can respond 
to voices. It is as though newborns had rehearsed the perfect 
approach to the first meeting with their parents. In this state, 
motor activity is suppressed and all the baby’s energy seems 
to be channeled into seeing and hearing. 
A young infant imitating Professor Meltzoff protrudes his 
tongue, opens his mouth, and purses his lips. Each gesture 
was done at a different time 
Breastfeeding while sitting up is basically the same as 
when lying down. Baby should be held facing your breast 
with head up close, yet tilted back slightly. Baby should be 
looking up at you. Cup your breast in your hand and 
press down on the areola with your thumb. This should 
point your nipple out and upward. Again, baby should 
get your nipple and part of the areola well into his 
mouth. He will be able to grasp the nipple well if you 
hold him close to you. If baby chews only on the end 
of the nipple, he may develop a style of nursing described 
by one mother as the “‘cliff-hanger.’” Baby won’t get as 
much milk, and mother is likely to get sore nipples. As 
your baby grows older and holds his head well, you won’t 
have to take such careful notice of angle and position; 
he'll get where he want to go, all on his own. 
Crying Baby, Sleepless Nights 
One of the adjustments of new parenthood is the reality of 
nighttime parenting. New babies don’t know about 
day and night right away, and they need frequent feedings 
and close contact. Sandy Jones gives you many sugges- 
tions on how to determine if baby’s night waking is normal 
night waking, or if there really is something you can do 
about it. Mothers with babies with colic will love this book 
and be reassured by it. It’s also good for expectant 
parents wanting to know what to expect from a new baby. 
The book includes 100 tips for the “‘less-than-perfect’’ 
mother, a directory of support groups for parents, and 
information on finding the right pediatrician. 
—Peggy O’Mara McMahon 
What's the secret of knowing one baby cry from the 
other? Most mothers use their inner sense of their babies’ 
daily schedule to help them, along with 
observing baby behavior in its everyday context. 
If the baby’s been asleep for three and a half hours and 
he wakes up crying, he’s probably hungry. If the baby’s 
been up for three hours and he seems Bl and keeps 
batting at his ear and mildly fussing, he’s probably ready 
to nurse off to sleep. If he wakes up in the middle of the 
night with a loud, piercing scream, he’s probably in pain 
from a diaper pin pressing into his side, a string from his 
sleeper wrapped around his toe, a bubble of gas trap- 
ped in his stomach, or some other inner or outer pain. 
