HEALTH 
228 
Staying Alive 
Roger Walsh, M.D. 
1984; 125 pp. 
$7.95 
($8.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
Order Dept. 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
Thou Shalt 
Not Be Aware 
Alice Miller 
1984; 331 pp. 
$16.95 
($18.45 postpaid) from: 
Harper and Row 
2350 Virginia Avenue 
Hagerstown, MD 21740 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Evolving Self 
Robert Kegan 
1982; 318 pp. 
$7.95 
($9.45 postpaid) from: 
Harvard University Press 
79 Garden Street 
Cambridge, MA 02138 
or Whole Earth Access 
PSYCHOLOGICAL SELF-CARE 
Staying Alive 
Arms race nuttiness is so obvious; why doesn’t somebody 
do something about it? Dr. Walsh gives us a look at the 
psychology involved, and suggests what we may do as 
individuals. It’s gonna be work, but it’s not hopeless (I 
hope). The book is brief, sharp, and free of airhead 
cliches — a nonpolitical call to action starting with self- 
understanding. 
‘‘When | do not know who | am | serve you. 
‘ 
‘‘When | know who | am | am you.’ 
—JB 
e 
The more | reflected on our current crises, the more | 
recognized that they were all human-caused. To the 
extent they were human-caused, then to that extent their 
causes were to be sought in human behavior and in the 
psychological forces — the desires, defenses, phobias, 
and fantasies — that motivated that behavior. In other 
words, the roots of our dilemmas were largely psycho- 
logical. The dilemmas themselves could therefore be 
seen as symptoms: global symptoms of our collective 
psychological disturbances. 
It is important to recognize that doing things out of 
guilt or ‘‘shoulds’’ is counterproductive. Such motivation 
spawns anger, tension, and righteousness with which 
you will infect other people. This is hardly helpful since 
emotions such as these are part of the problem and our 
task is to reduce them. 
That is why it is so important to learn a little-known 
secret about contribution and service: it is okay to have 
a good time. All too often we approach service with 
grim-faced determination and a hidden assumption that 
we are not really serious about it if we are not suffering. 
Yes, it is true the world is in bad shape, but creating 
more suffering in ourselves is hardly the way to relieve it. 
EE 
SLT AST 
SY IE 
TRE 
I 
TE 
ET SL DE TE 
PD 
The Right to Feel Bad 
‘‘Wazza matter? You look depressed.’’ This upbeat book 
says that’s natural, just as feeling joyful is natural. You're 
not sick. Things will be better (or feel better) later if you 
just hang in there. Drugs usually won’t help and may hin- 
der progress by masking the natural processes going on, 
processes that are essential to growth and healing. The 
book hit me dead center as no other on the subject has. 
My heart says, “‘yeah ... this is how it is.” 
—JB 
The lie of depression as illness is right there in the 
language. ‘’I’ve got a cold,’’ we say, or ‘I’ve got 
hepatitis.’ But we do not say — at any rate, not yet — 
‘I’ve got a depression.’” Acknowledging it as a state 
of being, we say, ‘’I am depressed.”’ 
@ 
Creation, after all, is based on emptiness, on the initial 
existence of nothingness. 
One creates from emptiness and returns to it afterward 
in order to find the space for the next creation to 
grow. Depression becomes the nothingness in which 
““something’”’ begins. 
e 
Both happiness and depression are fueled by the same 
source: the capacity to feel, to allow ourselves emotion, 
and to experience the full range of life. This is vitality. 
Far from being a waste of time, as so many people still 
insist, depression is as integral a part of human 
experience as is happiness. 
The Right 
to Feel Bad 
Lesley Hazelton 
1984; 263 pp. 
$3.50 
($4.50 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
Order Dept. 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
Thou Shalt Not Be Aware 
This is a compelling, compassionate book about both 
childhood and psychoanalysis. Freudian psychology so 
pervades our thought and language that Alice Miller’s 
corrections of its errors are necessary for our continued 
use of its concepts. For all of us who want to understand 
how childhood affected us, but particularly for those of 
us who were abused or are tempted to abuse, this is an 
essential book. It also gives all of us some ideas for 
thinking about how to prevent the violence and self- 
destruction that are the adult consequences of abusive 
and neglectful parenting. 
—Michael Robertson 
But who is it actually who is so eager to see that society’s 
norms are observed, who persecutes and crucifies those 
with the temerity to think differently — if not people who 
have had a “’proper upbringing’’? They are the ones 
who learned as children to accept the death of their 
souls and do not notice it until they are confronted with 
the vitality of their young or adolescent children. Then 
they must try to stamp out this vitality, so they will not 
be reminded of their own loss. 
The consequences of sexual abuse, however, are not 
restricted to problems in one’s sexual life; they impair 
the development of the self and of an autonomous per- 
sonality. There are several reasons why this is so: 
1. To have one’s helplessness and total dependency 
taken advantage of by the person one loves, by one’s 
mother or father, at a very early age soon produces an 
interlinking of love and hate. 
2. Because anger toward the loved person cannot be 
expressed for fear of losing that person and therefore 
cannot \e lived out, ambivalence, the interlinking 
of love 
and hate remains an important characteristic of uae 
object relutionships. Many people, for instance, cannot 
even imagine that love is possible at all without suffering 
and sacrifice, without fear of being abused, without being 
hurt and humiliated. 
The Evolving Self 
Kegan sees our journey as a cyclical process of continuing 
growth and loss. He pinpoints the obstacles to growth and 
suggests how to overcome those obstacles, depending on 
the cycle of development in which they occur. The result is 
a very clear and readable book about how people can 
grow psychologically, written with a great deal of respect 
for the reader’s individual integrity. 
—Michael Robertson [Suggested by Jane Vinson] 
| used to have two sets of clothes — one for my husband 
and one for my mother who visited often. Two sets of 
clothes, but none for me. Now | dress in my clothes. 
Some of them are like what my mother would like me to 
wear but that’s a totally different thing. 
How exhausting it’s becoming holding all this together. 
And until recently | didn’t even realize | was doing it. 
