e = 45 million people = 1% of humanity 
The World Game 
“To make the World work / for 100% of Humanity / In 
the shortest possible time / Through spontaneous cooper- 
ation / Without ecological offense / Or the disadvantage 
of anyone. ’’ 
Buckminster Fuller initiated the World Game in 1969 as 
one means of accomplishing this worthy goal. The idea is 
that with enough data on world resources and their 
distribution (including accumulated technology and 
problem-solving skills), the world’s citizens will do what's 
best for all. Fuller assumed that once it was obvious that 
there was enough of everything to go around, people 
a 
SII 
OO 
EES ITE) 
Rocky Mountain Institute (RMI) 
Since its humble beginnings in 1982, RMI (Amory and 
Hunter Lovins, props.) has shown the way in energy and 
resource management research; I'll let them explain 
themselves: 
“Because the problems of the world cannot be solved by 
piecemeal thinking, the interdisciplinary staff of 20 em- 
phasizes synthesis. RMI has documented, for example, 
how least-cost energy strategies can inhibit nuclear prolif- 
eration, abate acid rain, save wild rivers, rescue troubled 
utilities, cut electric rates, forestall the CO, threat to 
global climate, make farms and industries more profitable, 
rebuild distressed local economies, and save enough 
money to pay off the National Debt by 2000.’’ 
Fact is that RMI has actually done much of the above, or 
LA 
LET 
EI 
ST LI 
TEN SS TL 
EE 
RE 
The Regeneration Project 
This project is based on a simple truth: if you import 
products, food, and energy into your area, you export 
money out of your local economy. Not good. Not 
efficient. Dumb, even. The Regeneration Project offers the 
analytic and organizing skills to counter such forces. The 
idea is to maximize conservation where possible, then 
minimize imports by making, repairing, or growing what 
you need locally, locally. The project is increasingly 
successful because it works — not surprising with the 
hand of Rodale involved. 
=p 
e 
As the Project studied dozens of individual states, a 
startling pattern emerged. 
Virtually every state — including many of our most 
agriculturally oriented states — ‘‘imported”’ a vast 
amount of the food they consumed. This not only placed 
their states in a vulnerable position; it also caused a 
dollar drain that weakened their overall economy. 
e See also ‘’Biohazards’”’ (p. 107), ‘‘Conservation’’ (p. 45), 
and land preservation groups (p. 86). 
e See also Permaculture (p. 62) and Sustainable 
Communities (p. 113). 
¢ See The Ecologist and Audubon (p. 27) for more on 
environmental politics. 
IMME SOME NUMBERS! 
And that’s just what you get 
from these folks as they 
attempt to discover and understand the 
flow of energy and resources through 
society. They’re doing our homework 
for us. 
—JB 
—The World Game 
would stop fighting wars and get to work making the 
world work — if not as a utopia at least not continuing the 
current suicidal path. World Game is still developing. 
Recent sessions use an enormous basketball-court-size 
map in order to more easily visualize various strategies 
as they are suggested by participants. A formidable 
software database called Global Data Manager allows 
individuals to play with the numbers on their PCs. 
Universities and the UN are beginning to pay attention to 
this attempt at manipulating global data. In many ways, 
it’s a giant version of the other work shown on this page. 
There’s hope for us yet. 
—JB 
at least made a good start. A host of corporations and 
governments have taken their advice to heart because it’s 
based on the same information and methodology used by 
conventional analysts (who have not been paying 
attention). | recommend the RMI newsletter highly, 
though it makes many of us sound like lazy bums by 
comparison. The RMI record is both a marvel and an 
inspiration. 
€ 
—JB 
A sample ‘supply curve’ from Peter Butler’s recent 
research shows that installing 1-gallon toilets, faucet 
aerators, and 2-gallon/minute showerheads without 
charge would cost Aspen, Colorado minus $5 million in 
20-year present value, because the energy savings on 
hot water would more than pay for the whole program. 
The actual benefit would be bigger: the city wouldn’t 
have to expand its water and wastewater systems. 
The Local Economy Inventory serves to match local 
businesses with local suppliers in order to replace costly 
imports coming into a region. It comprehensively surveys 
all enterprises and institutions in a region. It covers both 
primary and secondary material inputs as well as waste 
products that may have potential economic value. 
New Alchemy Institute 
The Alkies have been working on sustainable technology 
and agriculture for about 15 years now and doing a 
good job of it too. Recent work includes a composting 
greenhouse and designs for eco-righteous housing that'll 
appeal to builder/developers as well as owners. They 
offer lots of classes, consulting services, and a host of 
publications. The quarterly newsletter always seethes with 
interesting action, much of it backed by strict scientific 
methodology — one reason NAI 
has been so successful. 
—JB 
New Alchemy Quarterly 
Kate Eldred, Editor 
$3 S/year 
(4 issues; membership) 
Publications list free 
both from: 
New Alchemy Institute 
237 Hatchville Road 
East Falmouth, MA 02536 
SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGY 
COMMUNITY 89 
The World Game 
Membership $25 /year 
(includes newsletter) 
Global Data 
Manager 
(MS-DOS, CP/M) 
$77 postpaid 
All from: 
The World Game 
University City 
Science Center 
3508 Market Street #214 
Philadelphia, PA 19104 
Institute 
Publications list free 
Newsletter (4 issues) free 
both from: 
RMI 
P. O. Drawer 248 
Old Snowmass, CO 81654 
Regeneration 
Jeff Bercuvitz, Editor 
$i 2iyear 
(4 issues) 
Publications list free 
both from: 
The Regeneration Project 
33 East Minor Street 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
Inside the New Alchemy 
Arc bioshelter. 
