298 taNcuace 
ANTS PAWN TERM, dare worsted ladle gull hoe lift 
wetter murder inner ladle cordage, honor itch offer 
lodge, dock, florist. Disk ladle gull orphan worry putty 
ladle rat Heieck wetter ladle rat hut, an fur disk raisin pimple colder 
Ladle Rat Rotten Hut. 
Wan moaning, Ladle Rat Rotten Hut’s murder colder inset. 
“Ladle Rat Rotten Hut, heresy ladle basking winsome burden barter 
an shirker cockles. Tick disk ladle basking tutor cordage offer groin- 
murder hoe lifts honor udder site offer florist. Shaker lake! Dun 
stopper laundry wrote! Dun stopper peck floors! Dun daily-doily 
inner florist, an yonder nor sorghum-stenches, dun stopper torque 
wet strainers!” 
“‘Hoe-cake, murder,” resplendent Ladle Rat 
Rotten Hut, an tickle ladle basking an 
stuttered oft. 
Honor wrote tutor cordage offer groin- 
murder, Ladle Rat Rotten Hut mitten 
anomalous woof. 
Anguish Languish 
“Wail, wail, wail!” set disk wicket woof, 
“Evanescent Ladle Rat Rotten Hut! Wares 
are putty ladle gull goring wizard 
ladle basking?” 
“Armor goring tumor groin-murder’s,” 
reprisal ladle gull. “Grammar’s seeking bet. 
Armor ticking arson burden barter an 
shirker cockles.” 
“Ladle Rat Rotten Hut’’ is often attributed to Anonymous, but it 
was actually written by H. L. Chace. He was a professor of French 
at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, and retired in 1965. | talked 
to him by phone about the story of the story. 
“| wrote it about 1940,’ he said. “It was going to be part of a 
little article | was writing. It was in the days of rationing during the 
war and | thought about what would happen if we had to ration 
language. If our vocabulary were cut in half, we’d have to get 
along with other words. Consequently, | thought I’d see how youd 
“© hoe! Heifer gnats woke,” setter wicket woof, butter taught tomb 
get along with the other half. I’ve never written that article, but 
shelf, “Oil tickle shirt court tutor cordage offer groin-murder. Oil 
I've always thought of doing it. 
ketchup wetter letter, an den — O bore!” 
“| taught French, and | used the story in my class to show the 
importance of intonation in learning a foreign language. You see, 
Soda wicket woof tucker shirt court, an whinny retched a cordage offer 
if you take these English words and put them in columns like a 
groin-murder, picked inner windrow, an sore debtor pore oil worming 
spelling book and just read them, they have no meaning. How- 
worse lion inner bet. Inner flesh, disk abdominal woof lipped honor 
ever, if you read them with the proper intonation, the meaning 
bet, paunched honor pore oil worming, an garbled erupt. Den disk 
eee es for certain people. For other people the meaning never 
ratchet ammonol pot honor groin-murder’s nut cup an gnat-gun, any 
8S 
ee 
curdled ope inner bet. 
‘| never submitted it to anybody, but it got spread some way or 
other. It’s one of those things that got completely out of control. | 
Inner ladle wile, Ladle Rat Rotten Hut a raft attar cordage, an ranker 
showed it to a few friends and to a book salesman who came to 
dough ball. ““Comb ink, sweat hard,” setter wicket woof, disgracing 
see me. He liked the thing because it had to do with words. | think 
is verse. 
| may have given him a copy, and he must have given it to some- 
one else. It first appeared in print in the Merriam Company’s 
Ladle Rat Rotten Hut entity bet rum, an stud buyer groin- 
magazine Word Study. | think it got in Stars and Stripes [U.S. 
murder’s bet. 
Army newspaper] because | heard from people in Baghdad, 
i 
4 
coe 
- 
Sweden, all over the world. Sports Illustrated found it in another 
O Grammar!” 
crater ladle gull historically, 
“Water bag icer gut! 
publication and gave me $1000 for it. Arthur Godfrey found it in 
A nervous sausage bag ice!”’ 
Sports Illustrated, and he broadcast it and very generously told 
ee 
' 
ae 
any 
readers that wanted a copy 
they could have one by sendin 
Battered lucky chew whiff, sweat hard,” 
setter bloat-Thursday woof, 
ete To my surprise, Ra ih about five hound of ids 
wetter wicket small honors phase. 
After that episode, Prentice Hall asked me to write a series of 
stories for a book, which | did. [Anguish Languish was published 
by Prentice Hall in 1955.] 
“The book sold fairly well for that sort of thing. It went through 
“O Grammar, water bag noise! A nervous sore suture 
anomalous prognosis!” 
“Battered small your whiff, doling,” whiskered dole woof, ants mouse 
four printings | think, maybe 14,000 copies total. It’s used now a 
worse waddling. 
good deal in textbooks to demonstrate the phonetic structures of 
English. The book has been used by some psychologist to deter- 
“Q Grammar, water bag mouser gut! A nervous sore suture 
mine the ability of people to understand sound, to study the limit 
bag mouse!” 
of distortion that can be comprehended. That varies from person 
to person. 
Daze worry on-forger-nut ladle gull’s lest warts. Oil offer sodden, 
‘People who like it best are language people, teachers, lawyers, 
caking offer carvers an sprinkling otter bet, disk hoard-hoarded woof 
and doctors. That’s almost all the people who are interested in it. 
lipped own pore Ladle Rat Rotten Hut an garbled erupt. 
And children, strange to say. I’ve had a lot of letters from them.”’ 
The book, Anguish Languish, is out of print and very hard to find. 
MURAL: Yonder nor sorghum-stenches shut ladle gulls stopper 
Chace himself only has one copy. Dover or somebody should 
torque wet strainers. 
m= 
reprint it. 
—Anne Herbert 
