86 COMMUNITY 
Land-Saving Action 
Russell L. Brenneman and 
Sarah M. Bates, Editors 
1984; 262 pp. 
$34.95 
($37.45 postpaid) from: 
Island Press 
Star Route 1, Box 38 
Covelo, CA 95428 
or Whole Earth Access 
STATE NATURAL HERITAGE INVENTORIES 
A bog lake succession. A 
floating mat vegetation ad- 
vances out over the water 
surface in a small lake ina 
cool, humid climate [A]. As 
the mat advances farther 
and the lake ages [B] and 
[C], scarcely decomposed 
organic matter (peat) ac- 
cumulates in the lake basin, 
until after some thousands 
of years, the lake will be 
converted to forest [D]. 
—Building an Ark 
Building an Ark 
Phillip M. Hoose 
1981; 221 pp. 
$12 
($14.50 postpaid) from: 
Island Press 
Star Route 1, Box 38 
Covelo, CA 95428 
or Whole Earth Access 
E IT NEIGHBORHOOD OR NATION, 
the ideal community remains elusive. What 
turns out to be most important after spir- 
itual matters are attended to is political 
and economic permission (some call it 
acceptance). You have to be resolute, clever, and lucky 
to make any advance; community is always work- 
in-progress. 
—J. Baldwin 
Land-Saving Action 
The last decade has seen a tremendous expansion of 
private-sector preservation of open space lands. This book, 
with chapters by 29 experts, embodies the experience that 
ten years has produced, and will serve as a bible for any- 
one who loves a piece of land enough to want to find out 
how to save it. 
—Richard Nilsen 
e 
Most land trusts are actually not trusts at all in the legal 
sense, but are nonstock corporations organized for char- 
itable purposes. A genuine trust is usually established by 
an individual transferring property to a trustee and is 
administered under conditions stated in a trust document. 
In contrast, the corporate form used by land trusts allows 
much greater flexibility in involving interested individuals, 
obtaining contributions, and managing holdings. 
Preservation Organizations 
The Nature Conservancy 
The Nature Conservancy is responsible for preserving over 
two million acres of land, as well as innumerable rare and 
endangered plants and animals. For my money, they 
manage their purchases with the best network of volunteer 
and professional land stewards. Recently, The Nature Con- 
servancy has gone international because many of the birds 
we protect here winter south of the border. ‘To save them 
here, they must be saved there as well.’’ A fringe benefit 
of joining is a 4-color, top-notch quarterly. 
—Peter Warshall 
The Nature Conservancy News: Sue Dodge, Editor. $10/year 
(6 issues) from 1800 North Kent Street, Arlington, VA 22209. 
Land Trust Exchange 
Most land preservation groups tend to be small, volunteer, 
community oriented, and with very specific tasks in mind. 
Land Trust Exchange serves as a national clearinghouse for 
all of them. Their National Directory lists more than 500 
groups by state. You can also find out if a group exists 
where you live and learn about other written material they 
distribute by writing them. 
—Richard Nilsen 
National Directory of Local and Regional Land Conservation 
Organizations: $12 postpaid from Land Trust Exchange, 
P. O. Box 364, Bar Harbor, ME 04609. 
The Trust for Public Land 
TPL does not hold land permanently and it is not a 
membership organization. Instead it buys threatened 
land and then resells it to public agencies for open space. 
It is designed to represent the public interest in the “‘here 
today, gone tomorrow”’ world of real estate transactions. 
Open space is where you find or create it, and for TPL this 
includes inner city lots. Three hundred thousand more 
spacious acres have been transferred nationwide. 
—Richard Nilsen 
The Trust for Public Land: Information free from The Trust for 
Public Land, 82 Second Street, San Francisco, CA 94105. 
Ducks Unlimited 
This 560,000-member organization has been responsible 
for the preservation of more waterbird breeding grounds 
(especially marshlands) than any government or other 
group. Working internationally (ducks haven’t learned 
about Canadian, U.S., and Mexican boundaries), Ducks 
Unlimited restores, manages, and purchases wetlands 
throughout North American waterfowl flyways. 
—Peter Warshall 
Ducks Unlimited: Membership $20/year from 1 Waterfowl 
Way, Long Grove, IL 60047. 
Izaak Walton League of America 
An old conservation group with a distinct midwestern 
twang. Rooted morality. Never upstarts. They are hard, 
persevering workers who maintain, protect, and restore 
soil, forests, water and air. A wholesome 50,000 members. 
Publishes Outdoor America and has an endowment fund 
to purchase unique natural areas. 
—Peter Warshall 
Izaak Walton League of America: Membership $20/year from 
1701 North Fort Myer Drive, Suite 1100, Arlington, VA 22209. 
SLT 
I 
EE SS 
OT 
TES 
SSD OSE 
TS 
I TT SE 
ST 
T 
SE EOE 
Building an Ark 
The nuts and bolts of wildlife preservation, by an exem- 
plary land saver for The Nature Conservancy. The techni- 
ques of property are used to make sufficiently cherished 
land no longer be property in the buy and sell sense. 
—Stewart Brand 
A right of first refusal is an option, not an obligation. You 
don’t have to buy the property when it becomes 
available. Thus for a nominal fee you have purchased: 
1. The right to know that the owner of an important tract 
is considering an action that could jeopardize the natural 
features you wish to protect. 
2. Thirty days or so to negotiate with the owner before he 
can sell. 
3. Usually, the ability to talk to the person who made the 
offer, to discern his attitude toward protection, and thus 
the ability to gauge how he would manage it if you let 
him go ahead and buy the property. 
4. The ability to make an offer. 
Dedication is the strongest protection tool discussed in 
this book, increasing protection offered even through fee 
acquisition in two ways. First, a county clerk cannot 
lawfully record articles of dedication unless they con- 
tain terms protecting the land against modification or 
encroachment. Secondly, all nature preserves acts con- 
tain clear language protecting dedicated properties 
against condemnation or conversion. 
pal
