HOMEBUILTS 
LTHOUGH THE GENERAL aviation manufacturers back in Wichita, Kansas (which is to airplane 
manufacturers what Detroit is to carmakers) are in danger of withering away, another segment of 
the flying population is quite robust — those who make their own machines. Initially, building 
your own plane might mean acquiring a $100 set of plans or thousands of dollars worth of boxes 
just unloaded in your workshop. 
There are some 11,000 registered homebuilts now, 
and the boom is understandable: superior speed, 
better economy, and a lower price tag are hard to 
beat. Early homebuilts were constructed of either 
steel tubing and aluminum or of wood and fabric. 
But ever since Bert Rutan introduced his epochal 
EZ, composite construction utilizing foam and 
fiberglass has been most popular. 
These new machines are strong and light and cruise 
in the 200-mph range at nearly 30 mpg — all for an 
outlay of $20,000 or thereabouts, half the price and 
twice the speed of a plodding, new Cessna 152. 
The current favorite designs include the Glassair 
and Cozy. 
Of course, one extra input is required — effort. 
Building your own plane is a project for those who 
have overcome that mental block that announces 
itself with the thought, “I couldn’t possibly .. .” 
But if that barrier is behind you, and you’ve pre- 
viously demonstrated staying power during periods 
of long-term challenge, consider a highly rewarding 
project that will take perhaps 2,000 hours of work 
— some two to three years of your spare time. 
There’s a bundle of designs to choose from. Investi- 
gate by joining the Experimental Aircraft Association, 
which includes a subscription to their magazine, 
Sport Aviation. It’s loaded with real-life experience, 
as well as occasional excesses of optimism, for some 
of the stories are written by people pushing their 
products. 
—Dick Fugett 
Cockpit of Ulrich and Linda Walter’s modified (160hp) > 
Cozy — the product of 2,200 hours of work. 
Aircraft Spruce & Specialty 
When you get past the fantasy level and decide it’s time 
for nuts and bolts (or epoxy and foam), then you‘ll make 
acquaintances with AS & S; they’ve been supplying home 
builders for nearly three decades. Their hefty catalog 
gives pictures, prices, and descriptions of everything from 
the materials and tools required to build a plane, to the 
instruments and engine you'll have to buy before the 
project finally takes off. 
e Anyone who wants to build something with the same 
characteristics as an airplane — light, strong, dependable, 
immune to vibration, round — should check out Airparts’ 
catalog. It can be had for $1 from Airparts, Inc., 301 North 
7th Street, Kansas City, KS 66101. 
What lifts this volume above the competition is the de- 
scriptive commentary. Windowshopping changes into 
education, and what began as a simple catalog ends 
up as a reference book. 
—Dick Fugett 
Aeroquip Firesleeve was specially developed to meet 
the fire resistance requirements of FAA TSO-C53a or 
TSO-C75. It may be used for all fuel, oil, hydraulic, fire 
extinguisher and propeller feathering lines. 
‘‘Fire-proof’’ hose lines as defined by FAA must with- 
stand a direct flame for fifteen minutes under specified 
flow conditions without failure. ‘’Fire-resistant’’ lines 
must withstand a five minute exposure under these con- 
ditions. ‘‘Fire-proof’’ hose lines are obtained when the 
proper size Aeroquip Firesleeve is selected and properly 
assembled. 
NOMADICS 293 
The Cozy — a 108 hp engine 
gives 185 mph cruise. 
Sport Aviation 
Jack Cox, Editor 
$30/year 
(with membership) from: 
Experimental Aircraft 
Association 
Wittman Airfield 
Oshkosh, WI 54903-3086 
Aircraft Spruce 
& Specialty 
Company 
Catalog $5 from: 
Aircraft Spruce 
& Specialty Company 
P.O. Box 424 
Fullerton, CA 92632 
