28 
Microcosmos 
Lynn Margulis 
and Dorion Sagan 
1986; 301 pp. 
$1 7.95 postpaid from: 
Simon & Schuster 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Flamingo’s 
Smile 
Stephen Jay Gould 
1985; 476 pp. 
$1 7.95 postpaid from: 
W. W. Norton 
500 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10110 
or Whole Earth Access 
Darwin and 
the Beagle 
Alan Moorehead 
1969; 224 pp. 
$10.95 
($11.95 postpaid) from: 
Viking-Penguin Books 
299 Murray Hill Pkwy. 
East Rutherford, 
NJ 07073 
or Whole Earth Access 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY 
Microcosmos 
The prose is at times raucous, joyful, teasing, even catty 
— the tone of two good friends going out to the local bar 
on Friday and living it up. But, as one reads, it becomes 
clear that this book is also brilliant science. 
This is by far the best book written on human prejudice 
and evolutionary history. It carefully tracks the evolution 
of life on earth from one-celled life into today’s mind-bog- 
gling variety of cell conglomerates. This book makes clear 
the importance of symbiosis, mutual dependence, coop- 
eration, and cohabitation in evolution, thus delightfully 
shoving “‘species competition’ and Spencerian “‘survival 
of the fittest’ into the back seat ashtray. 
An excellent companion to Microcosmos is Five Kingdoms 
.. 
. A field guide that achieves the proper balance of 
microbes and mammals; it is the reference book for the 
study of planetary life. 
—Peter Warshall 
Five Kingdoms: Lynn Margulis and Karlene V. Schwartz, 1982; 
338 pp. 
$28.95 ($29.95 postpaid) from W. H. Freeman 
& Co., 4419 West 1980 South, Salt Lake City, UT 84104 
(or Whole Earth Access). 
So significant are bacteria and their evolution that the 
fundamental division in forms of life on earth is not that 
between plants and animals, as is commonly assumed, 
but between prokaryotes — organisms composed of cells 
with no nucleus, that is, bacteria — and eukarotes — 
all the other life forms. In their first two billion years on 
a 
ANIMALIA 
PLANTAE 
(diploids) 
(haplo-diploids) 
Histogenesis 
Embryogenesis 
PROTOCTISTA 
Meiosis 
PHOTOSYNTHETIC 
Photosynthesis 
eacronie 
CHEMOAUTOTROPHIC 
BACTERIA 
Phototaxis 
SPIROCHAETAE 
THIOPNEUTES 
Motility 
BACTERIA 
MONERA 
APHRAGMABACTERIA 
Fermentation 
—_———— 
Chromon
> 
Chro
——$—$——S—$——— 
Reproduction 
f= 
A phylogeny of life on Earth based on the Whittaker five- 
kingdom system and the symbiotic theory of the origin of 
eukaryotic cells. 
—Five Kingdoms 
earth, prokaryotes continuously transformed the earth’s 
surface and atmosphere. They invented all of life’s essen- 
tial, miniaturized chemical systems — achievements that 
so far humanity has not approached. This ancient high 
biotechnology led to the development of fermentation, 
photosynthesis, oxygen breathing, and the removal of 
nitrogen gas from the air. It also led to worldwide crises 
of starvation, pollution, and extinction long before the 
dawn of larger forms of life. 
The Flamingo’s Smile 
The most ingratiating of all evolution writers has to be 
Stephen Jay Gould, whose monthly column in Natural 
History (see p. 27) has been a beacon of scientific essay 
style for some ten years now. The cash crop of those col- 
umns is a sequence of books, all still worthily in print — 
Ever Since Darwin, The Panda's Thumb, Hen's Teeth and 
Horse's Toes, and the new one still available only in hard- 
cover, The Flamingo’s Smile. This book is particularly 
thrilling since we get to watch Gould’s major scientific 
Nehemiah Grew’s flamingo, 1681. The 
illustration accompanying the first important 
proposal that flamingos feed by moving their 
upper jaw up and down against their lower. Look at this 
figure upside down as well. 
contribution, the idea of “‘punctuated equilibrium’’ 
(evolution by spurts), dealing with the emerging evidence 
of periodic mass extinctions, which apparently deal a 
whole different kind of articulation to the text of time (sort 
of like paragraph breaks, come to think of it; think I'll 
take one now . 
. 
.). 
The appeal of Gould is also his application. He finds il- 
lustrations of evolutionary themes absolutely everywhere 
— in comics (the infantilization of Mickey Mouse’s face), 
in baseball batting averages (the extremes narrow with 
time), in Alfred Kinsey (his landmark sex research followed 
landmark wasp research). The reader acquires an evolu- 
tionary eye constantly rewarded because one theory 
fits all. 
—Stewart Brand 
® 
But another overarching, yet often forgotten, evolution- 
ary principle usually intervenes and prevents any optimal 
match between organism and immediate environment — 
the curious, tortuous, constraining pathways of history. 
Organisms are not putty before a molding environment 
or billiard balls before the pool cue of natural selection. 
Their inherited forms and behaviors constrain and push 
back; they cannot be quickly transformed to new optim- 
ality every time the environment alters. 
Darwin and the Beagle 
The story of Darwin’s five-year circumnavigation, his 
revelation on the shores of Chile and confirmation on the 
isles of Galapagos. The story of how humans always fret 
about life as timeless-design vs. life as fluid-forming. From 
here, it is one easy step to Darwin’s Illustrated Origin 
of Species. 
—Peter Warshall 
Illustrated Origin of Species: Charles Darwin, 1979; 240 pp. 
$12.95 postpaid from Hill and Wang, Inc., 19 Union Square 
West, Néw York, NY 10003. 
® 
The fame of the Galapagos was founded upon one 
thing: they were infinitely strange, unlike any other 
islands in the world. No one who went there ever forgot 
them. For the Beagle this was just another port of call in 
a very long voyage, but for Darwin it was much more 
than that, for it was here, in the most unexpected way — 
just as a man might have a sudden inspiration while he is 
travelling in a car or a train — that he began to form a 
coherent view of the evolution of life on this planet. 
¢ The best college text on all aspects of evolution, especially 
genetics. Evolutionary Biology: Eli C. Minkoff, 1983; 627 pp. 
$35.95 postpaid from Addison-Wesley Publishing Co., 1 
Jacob Way, Reading, MA 01867. 
e An interesting analysis of current problems in evolution. 
The Problems of Evolution: Mark Ridley, 1985; 160 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from Oxford University Press, 16-00 Pollitt 
Drive, Fair Lawn, NJ 07410. 
