WHOLE SYSTEMS 
ASTRONOMY 
HERE IS NOTHING like astronomy 
to pull the stuff out of man. His stupid 
dreams and red-rooster importance: let 
him count the star-swirls.” 
—‘Star Swirls” by Robinson Jeffers 
Cosmos 
; Human knowledge used to be divided into: 1) our people; 
2) everything else. In the last decade or so, it’s started to 
divide differently: 1) Earth; 2) everything else. This new 
f book is now the best introduction to understanding every- 
thing in the context of Earth, and Earth in the context of 
everything else. 
It’s a personal view — Carl Sagan’s — derived from his 
public television series of the same name. | liked those 
programs far less than this book, but clearly the necessarily 
graphic research for video yielded a rich inventory of im- 
ages for the book. (They are mostly new and mostly 
highly illuminating and knowledgeably captioned. That's 
» rare in the field of popular astronomy, where half-decent 
images are recycled forever.) Carl is opinionated as well 
as insightful; both characteristics give the book its life. 
Both are invigorating. You might well wind up on another 
planet just to refute his preference for robots in space. 
—Stewart Brand 
The New Astronomy 
Astronomers don’t look through telescopes. (The eye isn’t 
very good at star-watching.) Moreover, a lot of what is 
going on out there is happening “‘invisibly.’’ Infrared, 
ultraviolet, x-ray, radio and gamma radiation can be 
detected and the images captured on film. This book ex- 
plains how it’s done and shows what has been found in 
startling color images of cosmic activity. The author for- 
tunately speaks normal English and makes the phenomena 
comprehensible without recourse to intricate math. The 
book gives new meaning fo the word fascinating. 
—JB 
SS 
ES 
oe 
oh 
Left: Optical, 501 nm oxygen line, negative print, 1.2 
m UK 
Schmidt Telescope. 
Right: Radio, 11 cm, 64 m Parkes Telescope. 
Like other supernova remnants, the Vela remnant is far 
more striking when observed at radio and X-ray wave- 
lengths. At radio wavelengths it is one of the brightest 
sources in the sky, as strong as the Crab Nebula. The 
radio picture (right) covers the same area of sky as the 
optical photograph (left), and is color coded so that the 
faintest outer regions are pink, with successively brighter 
parts in shades of blue, green, orange and red. (The 
pulsar is too weak to show up here; its position is shown 
by the black spot.) The radio picture shows the total ex- 
tent of the gases and shockwaves from the explosion 
much more clearly. The radio-emitting remnant is 4° 
(about 100 light years) across. 
SS 
—— 
ie 
os 
Bak 
~ 
500,000 years 2a 
aeons 
Computer-generated images of the Big Dipper as it would 
have been seen on Earth one million years ago and half a 
million years ago. Its present appearance is shown at bottom. 
Big Dipper 
1,000,000 years ago 
Neutron star matter weighs about the same as an ordin- 
ary mountain per teaspoonful — so much that if you had 
a piece of it and let it go (you could hardly do other- 
wise), it might pass effortlessly through the Earth like a 
falling stone through air, carving a hole for itself com- 
pletely through our planet and emerging out the other 
side — perhaps in China. People there might be out for 
a stroll, minding their own business, when a tiny lump of 
neutron star plummets out of the ground, hovers for a 
moment, and then returns beneath the Earth, providing 
at least a diversion from the routine of the day. If a piece 
of neutron star matter were dropped from nearby space, 
it would plunge repeatedly through the rotating Earth, 
punching hundreds of thousands of holes before friction 
with the interior of our planet stopped the motion. 
Echoes of the Ancient Skies 
A great work of connection is done here. The Earth’s sky 
is connected to the Earth’s dwellings, temples, and cities. 
The present, in this perspective sadly impoverished, is 
connected to our deepest past at its most perceptive 
and intelligent. Here are the sun daggers striking to the 
middle of labyrinths on certain days, the horizon points 
that connect the whole world to the whole year to the 
whole life, the lines drawn on the land to match the lines 
found between the sky and the passage of time. Richly 
told, richly illustrated. 
How have our modern architects remained so blissfully 
ignorant of these findings? All we seem to know in our 
constructions these days is the crudities of north, east, 
south, west. The solar energy crowd also appears devoid 
of art, subtlety, or science compared fo our primitive 
ancestors. 
—Stewart Brand 
The pyramid was carefully oriented and proportioned to let 
the profile of its northwest corner create first one inverted 
triangle of light and then another below it in a descending 
image of a diamondback serpent. At the bottom are ser- 
pent heads. The serpent heads argue well that the align- 
ment and effect were intended. It seems reasonable that 
the display played a dramatic part in a ceremony timed by 
the equinox. This serpent of sunlight matches the markings 
of the indigenous rattlesnake of Yucatan, and the many 
sculptured feathered serpents of Chichen Itza can be iden- 
tified, by their rattles, as rattlesnakes, too. This links the 
equinox serpent to rattlesnake symbolism that involves the 
year, the passage of time, and the idea of renewal. 
Cosmos 
Carl Sagan 
1980; 365 pp. 
$15.95 
($16.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
Order Dept. 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
The New 
Astronomy 
Nigel Henbest and 
Michael Marten 
1983; 240 pp. 
$29.95 postpaid from: 
Cambridge University 
Press 
510 North Avenue 
New Rochelle, NY 10801 
or Whole Earth Access 
Echoes of the 
|
Ancient Skies 
|
Dr. E. C. Krupp 
1983; 380 pp. 
$19.45 
($20.95 postpaid) from: 
Harper & Row 
2350 Virginia Avenue 
Hagerstown, MD 21740 
or Whole Earth Access 
