LEARNING 
MIND 
384 
Brain/Mind 
Bulletin 
Marilyn Ferguson, Editor 
$3 5/year 
(17 issues) from: 
Interface Press 
P. O. Box 42211 
Los Angeles, CA 90042 
Brain & Psyche 
Jonathan Winson 
1985; 300 pp. 
$1 6.95 postpaid from: 
Doubleday & Co. 
Direct Mail Order 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Teachings of 
Don Juan 
Carlos Castaneda 
1968; 196 pp. 
$5.95 
($7.45 postpaid) from: 
University of California 
Press 
2120 Berkeley Way 
Berkeley, CA 94720 
or Whole Earth Access 
A Separate 
Reality 
Carlos Castaneda 
1971; 263 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Simon & Schuster 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
or Whole Earth Access 
Brain/Mind Bulletin 
Easily the handiest way to stay current with news and 
gossip on the soft psychology frontier. Despite success 
and a burgeoning of the subject matter, editor Marilyn 
Ferguson has admirably kept the bulletin’s format to a 
terse, packed four pages. 
—Stewart Brand 
A startling new finding: Not only do the brain hemispheres 
switch dominance every 90 to 120 minutes throughout 
the day, but the sides of the body switch regularly in 
their dominance of sympathetic tone. 
Researchers sampled nervous-system transmitters by tak- 
ing blood from both arms every 7.5 minutes for periods 
of three to six hours. They found that the catecholamines 
— dopamine, norepinephrine, epinephrine [adrenaline] 
— were more concentrated on one side or the other 
every two to three hours. 
A 
Be ee 
= is oo me 
a mee 
ame gow 0 0 @ 
----(, a 
me 
G08 0 
ae 
@ 
Pickering showed Persian real words and nonsense ana- 
grams to English-speaking undergraduates who later drew 
them from memory. Neither subjects nor experimenters 
knew which Persian character strings were real words 
until after the data had been collected and analyzed. 
Subjects 
guessed the meaning of each word and rated 
their san ndenee in each guess. They reported feeling 
more confident in their guesses when they were viewing 
the true words, and their confidence ratings were twice 
as strong for high-frequency as compared to low-fre- 
quency words. 
Brain & Psyche 
Like most mammals, we dream. The few mammals that 
don’t dream, like the egg-laying echidna, appear to in- 
tegrate experience with memory as they plod along in 
real time. Winson’s new theory of dreams says that the 
rest of us, with more to think about than leaf mold and 
ants, save the day’s news and take several runs at folding 
it into the rest of our memories during the night. We proc- 
ess the day’s input of information while we sleep, in 
batches which we perceive as dreams. | —Hank Roberts 
| hypothesize that the complex function of assimilating 
new information, associating it with memories of past ex- 
periences, and formulating a plan to govern new 
behavior adaptively during the waking state required a 
very large prefrontal cortex in this early mammal. It is 
clear that had the evolution of the brain proceeded 
along this line, higher mammals and man as we know 
them would never have been. For what occurred was 
that the new line of marsupial and placental mammals 
— lower-order animals like the echidna — had very 
small prefrontal cortices. As higher mammalian forms 
evolved, more and more cortical tissue was added cul- 
minating in the brain of man, and this additional neural 
machinery provided many additional sensory, motor, 
and associative capabilities. Even with this evolutionary 
growth, man’s prefrontal cortex did not grow to be as 
large a proportion of total cortex as it was in the echidna. 
Thus, should the organization of man’s brain have been 
similar to the echidna’s, he might have needed a wheel- 
barrow to carry it around. In short, man would not 
have evolved. 
What was the scheme that nature hit upon in marsupial 
and placental mammals? | propose that . . 
. 
. the task of 
associating recent events to past memories and evolving 
a neural substrate to guide future behavior was accom- 
plished when the animal was asleep. 
The Teachings of Don Juan 
e A Separate Reality 
Astounding books exploring the mind’s perception of 
reality using the methods of a Mexican Indian sorcerer, 
“don Juan.’’ Harsh, humorous, told with shocking 
adroitness, the truths here have been confirmed by others 
who have worked with native shamans or explored the 
nether reaches of sundry mystical paths. Unfortunately 
Castanedo’s later books (there are now 6 total), though 
they are interesting, fictionalize ever farther away from 
his extraordinary field experience in the mountains of 
Mexico. The ideas in these two books have entered the 
American language to stay. 
—Stewart Brand 
@ 
“I say it is useless to waste your life on one path, 
especially if that path has no heart.”’ 
‘‘But how do you know when a path has no heart, don 
Juan?”’ 
‘Before you embark on it you ask the question: Does 
this path have a heart? If the answer is no, you will know 
it, and then you must choose another path.’’ 
“But how will | know for sure whether a path has a 
heart or not?’’ 
“Anybody would know that. The trouble is nobody asks 
the question; and when a man finally realizes that he 
has taken a path without a heart, the path is ready to 
kill him. At that point very few men can stop to deliberate, 
and leave the path.’ 
‘“‘How should | proceed to ask the question properly, 
don Juan?”’ 
“Just ask it.”’ 
“| mean, is there a proper method, so | would not lie to 
myself and believe the answer is yes when it really is no?”’ 
“Why would you lie?’’ 
‘’Perhaps because at the moment the path is pleasant 
and enjoyable. ’’ 
‘That is nonsense. A path without a heart is never enjoy- 
able. You have to work hard even to take it. On the 
other hand, a path with heart is easy; it does not make 
you work at liking it.“” —The Teachings of Don Juan 
There was a question | wanted to ask him. | knew he was 
going to evade it, so | waited for him to mention the 
subject; | waited all day. Finally, before | left that eve- 
ning, | had to ask him, ‘’Did | really fly, don Juan?”’ 
“That is what you told me. Didn’t you?’’ 
“| know, don Juan. | mean, did my body fly? Did | take 
off like a bird?’’ 
‘“‘You always ask me questions | cannot answer. You flew. 
That is what the second portion of the devil’s weed is for. 
As you take more of it, you will learn how to fly perfect- 
ly. It is not a simple matter. A man flies with the help of 
the second portion of the devil’s weed. That is all | can 
tell you. What you want to know makes no sense. Birds 
fly like birds and a man who has taken the devil’s weed 
flies as such [el enyerbado vuela asi].’’ 
““As birds do? [Asi como los pajaros?].”’ 
““No, he flies as a man who has taken the weed [No, asi 
como los enyerbados].’” 
—The Teachings of Don Juan 
i
