270 TWO-WHEELING 
SCOOTERS are pretty slick these days. Fancy 
new designs are quiet, quick, and perhaps most 
important, chic. Electric starting, automatic 
transmissions, splash guards, and windshields 
make the modern scooter as easy to use as a 
car on smooth urban roads. Some scooters are 
fast enough to be freeway legal, though they 
really don't belong there or on roads rough 
enough to challenge the pudgy little tires. 
Think of the scooter as a small second car 
— in good weather. 
Honda Scooters 
$448-$2,498 
Call 800/447-4700 
for information on 
your nearest dealer 
HEY GET YOU THERE, sweatless, faster than a bicycle. They cost far less to own and run than 
a car, are more agile, and park easily. Part machine and part animal, even the less inspired designs 
give an invigorating feeling of oneness with the mechanism. They’re fun! 
Statistically, two-wheeled transport, whether powered or not, isn’t encouragingly safe. But the 
statistics also show that most of the accidents happen to young, inexperienced riders during the first few 
months of ownership, and that the fault is usually rider error. Use good sense, resist challenging the laws 
}
of physics, wear your helmet, and don’t ride when the roads are slick. 
Puch Mopeds 
The machines on this page are shown only as examples of the breed; choosing and fitting a bike to your 
|
Catalog free from: 
needs is a very personal thing. You should read a lot, talk to riders and dealers, and ride as many different 
]
Puch Moped Catalog 
brands as you can before buying. 
—JB 
|
640 Stanyan Street 
San Francisco, CA 94117 
or your nearest Puch dealer 
MOTORCYCLES — believe it or not, this motorcycle has 
about the same size engine and price tag as the scooter 
shown above. Besides the obvious difference in ambience 
(which may work for or against your cause, depending), 
you'll find the motorcycle to be much more at home on the 
open road. The supple suspension, big wheels, powerful 
Honda Rebel 
brakes, and brisk performance enable even this modest 
machine to easily keep up with auto traffic on all sorts of 
$1 ,298-$1 7,498 
roads. There is a motorcycle to fit every proposed use and 
Information free from 
whim, if not budget. Plan on spending some time choosing 
any Honda dealer 
one that fits you well, just as you would developing any 
intimate relationship. ¥ 
MOPEDS are the cheapest to buy and cheapest to run. The 
pedals are useless — existing only as a means of dodging 
some states’ licensing requirements. (Godzilla couldn't pedal 
one for more than five minutes at one mph.) Mopeds are too 
fast to mix safely with bicycles, and too slow to mix safely 
with auto traffic. They are fast enough, however, to trash 
you if things go wrong. Think of them as fast bicycles 
without the work. 
TN EAT SEAR 
AES UG NSE AEDT OSB TED CG ASS EAE OT OE NE IS LT 
TER SE) 
¢ A good magazine for keeping up with motorcycling. 
|
Cycle: Phil Schilling, Editor. $13.95/year (12 issues) from P. O. 
Box 2776, Boulder, CO 80302. 
