the most direct-connect to plant powers. 
Foraging is a skill. How much can you harvest without subverting next year’s supply? Is the fruit ripe enough? 
Ox-Eye Daisy and English Daisy (Aster or Composite Family). 
—Edible Garden Weeds of Canada 
Is the root large enough? Is it endangered like American ginseng? Is it a poisonous look-alike? 
—Peter Warshall 
Field Guide to North American Edible Wild Plants 
The best introduction: great photos, clear descriptions of 
each plant’s favorite spot, range maps, seasonal coverage, 
harvesting advice, recipes, and a list of poisonous look- 
alikes for each plant. You'll love their elderberry blossoms 
deep fried in batter or their sassafrass jelly. 
—Peter Warshall 
Summer: Marsh mallow 
(also edible autumn, winter) 
Althaea officinalis 
Habitat: edges of brackish 
and salt marshes; introduced 
from Europe and now grows 
wild. Identification: peren- 
nial herb from 0.6—1.2m 
(2—4 ft) tall, from thick, 
large taproot; stems upright, 
often branched, stout, hairy 
. 
.. Flowers: several in cluster 
at base of upper leaves in summer; each with 5 pink, 
spreading petals 2—3 cm (0.8—1.2 in) long. Fruit is dry, 
flattened disc, divided into 15—20 segments. Harvest: 
leaves in early summer, flower buds in summer, and 
roots from late summer through winter. Preparation: 
whole plant contains mucilagelike material; roots are 
best source. Use young leaves in early summer as okra- 
like soup thickener or as potherb. Pickle flower buds. Boil 
thin sliced, peeled roots for 20 min in enough water to 
cover them. Strain off roots; for candy sweeten the liquid 
and boil until very thick. Beat and drop spoonfuls on 
waxed paper to cool. Roll pieces in confectioner’s sugar. 
For vegetable, fry boiled root slices with butter and 
chopped onion until browned. Use water from boiling 
any parts of plant as substitute for egg white in mer- 
ingue or chiffon pies. Also used for hand lotion and 
cough syrup. Use leaves for poultices for infected 
wounds. Related edible species: other Mallow family 
species, especially those of genus Malva. Eat Malva 
fruits raw or substitute roots for meringue. Poisonous 
look-alikes: none. 
Regional Guides: Western 
Edible Wild Plants of Canada is the most elegant and in- 
formative series of books on wild edibles. If it had U.S. 
locations, it would have been my top choice. Edible 
Native Plants of the Rocky Mountains is the best on the 
Rockies and some more southern species. 
Edible Wild Plants of Canada: No. 1, Edible Garden Weeds 
of Canada (1978; 184 pp.); No. 2, Wild Coffee and Tea 
Substitutes of Canada (1979; 111 pp.); No. 3, Edible Wild 
Fruits and Nuts of Canada (1979; 212 pp.); No. 4, Wild 
Green Vegetables of Canada (1980; 179 pp.) $12.95 each 
postpaid from University of Chicago Press, 11030 South 
Langley, Chicago, IL 60628 (or Whole Earth Access). 
Edible Native Plants of the Rocky Mountains: H. D. Harring- 
ton, 1974; 292 pp. $9.95 ($10.95 postpaid) from University 
of New Mexico Press, Albuquerque, NM 87131 (or Whole 
Earth Access). 
> 
How to Use: The use of the dried flowers of basswood 
and linden for making a hot beverage is quite well 
Regional Guides: Eastern 
Peterson’s has a cozy appendix — edibles are clustered 
by old fields, waste grounds, swamps, thickets, still water, 
and (like Japanese haiku) by season. Identification re- 
mains difficult. Roots digs the deepest into specialty 
foraging: good drawings, botany, Indian uses, medicinal 
uses, harvesting, drying, and preparing of roots, tubers, 
corms, and rhizomes. 
—Peter Warshall 
Roots (An Underground Botany and Forager’s Guide): 
Douglas B. Elliott, 1976; 128 pp. $6.95 ($8.70 postpaid) 
from The Chatham Press, 6 North Water Street, Greenwich, 
CT 06830 (or Whole Earth Access). 
A Field Guide to Edible Wild Plants (Eastern/Central North 
America): Lee Allen Peterson, 1977; 330 pp. $10.95 ($11.96 
postpaid) from Houghton Mifflin Company, Wayside Road, 
Burlington, MA 01803 (or Whole Earth Access). 
known in North America and famous in Europe. Similar 
to camomile tea, linden (basswood) tea is one of the 
most popular teas in France and other European coun- 
tries. Promoting perspiration, it is commonly used as an 
alternative to aspirin in the treatment of colds. As it also 
soothes the nerves, aids digestion, and helps to provide 
good sleep, it is one of the favourite mild medicines, 
given even to small children. 
—Wild Coffee and Tea Substitutes of Canada 
e 
Suggested Recipes: Mulberry Fudge 
150 mL ripe mulberry juice 
2/3 cup 
500 ml sugar 
2 cups 
30mL butter 
2 tbsp 
Cook about 375 mL (1¥2 cups) of mulberries lightly, mash 
and drain through a fine sieve or jelly bag to obtain the 
juice. Mix juice together with sugar and butter and place 
over low heat until sugar is dissolved. Bring to a boil on 
medium heat and boil without stirring until soft-ball stage 
on a candy thermometer is reached (115°C or 240°F). 
Warning: Be careful not to eat the raw fruit until it is ripe. 
Unripe fruits and the milky sap in the leaves and stems 
of mulberries are toxic and can cause gastric upsets. The 
leaves and stems also may cause dermatitis if touched 
by susceptible individuals. 
—Edible Wild Fruits and Nuts of Canada 
WILD EDIBLES 
» ARDENING IS STACKING THE DECK against Nature. Foraging wild edibles is a confrontation 
with Nature in all its glorious fickleness. Sometimes Miner’s Lettuce just can’t be found. Was 
it deer? A drought? Overharvested last year? A new drainage drying the soil? Insects? Foraging, 
like hunting, attunes the body, mind, and spirit to life cycles and seasonal change. It’s still 
HEALTH 253 
Field Guide to 
North American 
Edible Wild Plants 
Thomas S. Elias 
and Peter A. Dykeman 
OUT OF PRINT 
Van Nordstrand Books 
Basswood (Basswood 
Family). Other Names: 
American linden, lime, 
lime-tree, whitewood. 
