198 
Making Money 
Making Music 
James Dearing 
1982; 305 pp. 
$12.95 
($14.95 postpaid) from: 
Writer’s Digest Books 
9933 Alliance Road 
Cincinnati, OH 45242 
or Whole Earth Access 
How to Make 
and Sell 
Your Own Record 
Diane Sward Rapaport 
1984; 183 pp. 
($15 postpaid) from: 
The Headlands Press 
P. O. Box N 
Jerome, AZ 86331 
or Whole Earth Access 
Making Music 
George Martin, Editor 
1983; 352 pp. 
$10.95 
($12.45 postpaid) from: 
William Morrow 
Publishing Co. 
6 Henderson Drive 
West Caldwell, NJ 07006 
or Whole Earth Access 
LIVELIHOOD 
MUSIC BUSINESS 
3] 
HE MAINSTREAM MUSIC INDUSTRY is a modern- 
| 
day Siren of dreams of wealth and fame. The rocky 
shores that will tear your musical vessel apart are the 
ie 
2| 
accountants, lawyers, and marketing directors who run 
the business and make their decisions based on market research. 
Today’s Golden Fleece is the lowest common denominator of musical 
taste. Happily, you can keep your own dreams and make music by 
putting the music first and muzzling the desire for mass acclaim. 
These books will help you retain control over your fate and spread 
—Jonathan E. 
your music. You can be your own Orpheus. 
Making Money Making Music 
While you wait for that big break, don’t forget that you 
can still earn a decent living as a musician working local- 
ly. This book details a multitude of ways you can turn 
your talent into cash from performance gigs, teaching, 
studio work, renting your equipment, and selling your 
songs. It also deals with other musicianly concerns such 
as who drives the van, how to manage drink, drugs, and 
smoky barrooms, and how to avoid being ripped off 
by shady business characters. The chapters on how to 
organize and run a band show how fo deal with the per- 
sonalities (you’re going to have to do a lot of that), the 
finances, and the logistics. If you want to reach for the 
stars, this book will help you build a solid launch pad. 
—Jonathan E. 
Any price you’re quoted is the /east that person or 
organization can afford. Here’s what one nightclub 
owner told me: ‘’My auditor keeps me posted on how 
I’m doing, and how much | can afford. If she tells me | 
can afford $6,000 a month for entertainment, I'll only 
budget about $4, 500, and plow the other $1,500 back 
into the business.’’ If your band is making $1,200 a 
week, chances are good that your employer can pay 
you $1,400-$1,600 without needing to draw more 
customers. That’s the amount he budgeted for you, but 
you didn’t negotiate for it! You accepted his first offer, 
the $1,200. 
Is it really an audition? This is an infamous employer ex- 
cuse for getting good entertainment cheap. Exhaust all 
options before agreeing to a free audition: Has she 
heard the tape? Can she come out to see the act per- 
form somewhere else? Go ahead and pay their expense 
money to come see you perform at a job. This is cheaper 
than the whole group driving, setting up, playing, tear- 
ing down, and not getting paid. 
The New Miss Alice Stone Ladies Society Orchestra 
(Harmony Club Records). 
How to Make and Sell 
Your Own Record 
Still the indispensable guide for those who wish to go 
vinyl on their own behalf. Gets in the groove of the in- 
dependent recording business and stays there from early 
planning of promotion right through to tax returns. The 
work sheets will help you stay in the financial groove, as 
well. There’s an appendix on cassette-only releases, a 
discussion of new technologies such as CD, and a bit on 
foreign licensing. Read it before you book your studio time. 
—Jonathan E. 
Selling in stores: Placing your record for sale in record 
stores should be one of your main sales goals. Once you 
have persuaded an audience that your record is worth 
buying, it will be important that stores in the area carry 
i 
. You will probably find that the most receptive 
stores are the small, individually owned ones, especially 
those specializing in particular kinds of music, such as 
jazz, bluegrass, or reggae. The owners of these stores 
are often sympathetic to individual business efforts, 
which in many ways resemble their own. Like indepen- 
dent labels, they are attempting to provide customers 
with records they might not find in the larger chain stores. 
We chose to do an EP in accordance with our budget 
($2000, which ended up $2500 plus) — not wishing to 
have such an important step to us result in only a two- 
song single, but not being able to afford an LP. Also, the 
record was an experiment to see whether our established 
audience would come through for record sales, as well 
as the already proven aspect of ticket sales. Fortunately, 
we found success. 
wo 
Making Music 
All too often the sound of music is lost in the labyrinth of 
the music industry where bank notes are as important as 
musical notes (I’m being charitable). Making Music 
strikes a balance between the business and the music by 
acting as a guide to how the industry is structured and 
operates and to how music is actually made. Through in- 
terviews and articles by 65 industry insiders (with names 
most music fans will recognize) these successful individuals 
let you in on their secrets in a way that manages to in- 
tegrate art and commerce, throwing light on both. 
—Jonathan E. 
Home Studio: an area about the size of a garage can be > 
turned into a workable studio in a short space of time. 
Judicious use of screens can reduce spillage, and the same 
area can be used as both a studio and control room. 
