Sailplanes 
You may question the serenity of sailplanes if the thermals 
are cooking and your pilot, after coring one with endless, 
tight 360s, asks if you’re gonna barf. But that’s how it is 
with most rewarding, high-energy situations — there’s 
always a price. 
To sample their silent flight all you need is a rural airport 
with a sign out by the highway that says ‘“GLIDER RIDES. ”’ 
For roughly the same painful price you'll pay for a one- 
day introduction to anything these days, you can sample 
the freedom of unpowered flight. 
A glider rating can be added to a private pilot’s license 
for maybe $500. If you’ve never flown at all, then legal 
flight could run four times that amount. Decent used 
machines start around $5,000. The long-time journal 
of record is Soaring Magazine, put out by the Soaring 
Society of America. They also market a nice book on 
—Dick Fugett 
soaring basics, The Joy of Soaring. 
WRONG 
RIGHT 
TAKING OFF —~ 
STAY 40W, NEAR SAME LEVEL AS TOWPLANE 
—Joy of Soaring 
| 
& 
Tandem skydiving: one instructor and one student — and 
only one parachute. (Photo by Kurt Rodgers.) 
What About Accidents? 
In 1984, there were 33 fatalities, which occurred at 
about the rate of one per 61,000 jumps logged and one 
per 3,528 participants. This further breaks down to one 
fatality in each 300,000 student jumps. 
Viewed in this context, it is perfectly reasonable to tell 
your whuffo friends that despite 33 fatalities in 1984, 
ours is statistically not a dangerous sport. 
Most skydivers are less prone to die from accidents than 
the population as a whole; and skydiving itself is a lot 
less dangerous than driving to and from the drop zone. 
—Joy of Soaring 
Skydiving 
For maximum pucker factor there’s skydiving, which has 
undergone major changes in the last decade. No more 
heavy boots, bulky 50-pound gear, or even round canopies. 
Jumpers now wear a compact harness and container, 
light shoes, and come down gently under a steerable, 
ram-air, square canopy that’s actually an airfoil. The old, 
ankle-busting, 16-foot-per-second descent rate is gone, 
along with the need for traditional, high jump boots of 
paratroop legend. 
The latest advance, tandem skydiving, has opened the 
sport to those who'd prefer some experienced company 
while going out the door. The student and jumpmaster 
are basically wearing a single harness. After exiting they 
freefall together under the jumpmaster’s control, until he 
opens the canopy, which the student then guides down. 
Whether you choose tandem, or the traditional static line 
first jump, the day’s activities including basic instruction 
will run about $100. Should you get serious and go for 
the student training program, plan on spending about 
$1,000, plus at least that much more for equipment. The 
days when you could go out to a jump site, borrow some- 
one’s chute, and pay $7 for a lift in a Cessna 172 to 
begin teaching yourself skydiving are long gone. 
For more information and the location of your nearest 
jump center, try the United States Parachute Association’s 
magazine, Parachutist. 
—Jane Ferrell 
NOMADICS 
FLIGHT 295 
Soaring 
Robert Said, Editor 
$28/year 
(12 issues included in 
SSoA membership) from: 
Soaring Society of America 
Box 66071 
Los Angeles, CA 90066 
The Joy of Soaring 
(A Training Manual) 
Carle Conway 
1969; 134 pp. 
$17 
($18.19 postpaid) from: 
Aviation Book Company 
1640 Victory Blvd. 
Glendale, CA 91201 
Parachutist 
Larry Jaffe, Editor 
$21 SO /year 
(12 issues) from: 
United States 
Parachute Association 
1440 Duke Street 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
