COMMUNITY 
96 
nee 
| 
oul 
Getting to Yes 
Roger Fisher and 
William Ury 
1981; 163 pp. 
$11.95 
($12.95 postpaid) from: 
Houghton Mifflin Co. 
Attn.: Mail Order 
Wayside Road 
Burlington, MA 01803 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Community 
Conflict Resolution 
Training Manual 
Judith Lynch, Editor 
$25 from: 
Community Board 
Programs, Inc. 
149 Ninth Street 
San Francisco, CA 94103 
q 
The Mediation 
Process 
Christopher W. Moore 
1986; 348 pp. 
$24.95 
($26.95 postpaid) from: 
Jossey-Bass Publishers 
433 California Street 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
or Whole Earth Access 
MEDIATION 
HESE DAYS many people try to avoid our formal court system as they might avoid a rabid skunk. 
The hopelessness of resolving any dispute through civil litigation has spawned a considerable in- 
dustry dedicated to solving disputes in other ways. Mediation is a principal alternative. Disputing 
parties arrive at their own solution with the help of a mediator who has no power to impose a 
decision but is skilled in helping the parties do so. The adversary system encourages people to overstate their 
claims and often results in bitter lying contests, decreasing the likelihood the disputants will ever have a 
constructive relationship. But for mediation to succeed, both parties must agree that their most important 
concerns have been dealt with; they end in a win-win, rather than a win-lose, posture. 
Today there are over 200 community-based groups formed to mediate disputes (for a list, contact the National 
Association for Community Justice, 149 9th St., San Francisco, CA 94103). Some deal with landlord-tenant 
disputes, others with domestic problems, and many such as the truly creative Community Board Program in 
San Francisco, focus on the sorts of corrosive neighborhood disputes that have never been handled by the 
formal court system because there was no profit in doing so. 
Getting to Yes 
This book on negotiation comes as a great personal relief 
to me and may well to you. I’ve always avoided situations 
that involved bargaining because of all the dishonesty 
that seemed to be required. When | was forced, by life, 
to bargain anyway, | usually did poorly, which reinforced 
my reluctance. All that is now cured by this modest 163 
pages of exceptional insight and clarity. 
The point is to negotiate on principle, not pressure — 
on mutual search for mutually discernible objectivity, 
patiently and firmly putting aside every other gambit. 
The book is a landmark, already a bible for international 
negotiators but just as useful for deciding which movie to 
see tonight or which school to send the family scion to. 
Getting to Yes is a model in every way of ideal how-to 
writing. 
—Stewart Brand 
e 
A good case can be made for changing Woodrow 
Wilson’s appealing slogan ‘‘Open covenants openly 
—Jake Warner 
arrived at’’ to ‘‘Open covenants privately arrived at.”’ 
No matter how many people are involved in a negotia- 
tion, important decisions are typically made when no 
more than two people are in the room. 
e 
A variation on the procedure of ‘’one cuts, the other 
chooses” is for the parties to negotiate what they think is 
a fair arrangement before they go on to decide their 
respective roles in it. In a divorce negotiation, for exam- 
ple, before deciding which parent will get custody of the 
children, the parents might agree on the visiting rights of 
the other parent. This gives both an incentive to agree 
on visitation rights each will think fair. 
@ 
A good negotiator rarely makes an important decision 
on the spot. The psychological pressure to be nice and to 
give in is too great. A little time and distance help 
separate the people from the problem. A good negotiator 
comes to the table with a credible reason in his pocket 
for leaving when he wants. Such a reason should not in- 
dicate passivity or inability to make a decision. 
SSS SS 
I 
SE 
The Community Conflict 
Resolution Training Manual 
There are hundreds of mediation groups in the U.S. Some 
specialize in a narrow type of dispute. Others are the 
quasi-official arms of juvenile or domestic relations courts. 
(California and several other states require court-sponsored 
mediation of all contested child custody lawsuits.) Perhaps 
the group with the broadest vision of the full range of dis- 
putes is the Community Board Program, founded and 
directed by Roy Shonholtz. Headquartered in San Fran- 
cisco, this organization has helped start similar groups in 
two dozen other communities. They offer topnotch train- 
ing sessions (run periodically at different locations around 
the country), designed for both community people and 
professionals. (For information call 415/ 552-1250.) These 
folks also publish a number of newsletters, manuals, and 
videotapes. 
—Jake Warner 
e 
More Effective Listening Techniques 
¢ Stop Talking: You can’t listen while you are talking. 
The Mediation Process 
This is the best and most accessible general text in the 
field. | particularly like it because there is relatively little 
material on the general wonders of mediation, but lots of 
specifics on how mediation sessions should be conducted. 
Although Moore probably overdoes it a bit when he di- 
vides a typical mediation into twelve stages (a half dozen 
would surely serve as well), | found it a real learning 
experience to follow him through each. 
—Jake Warner 
e Empathize: Try to put yourself in the other’s place so 
you can understand what he is trying to communicate 
and why it matters to him. 
e Ask Questions: When you don’t understand, when you 
need more explanation, when you want to show that 
you are listening, ask. But don’t ask questions to embar- 
rass or show up the speaker. 
e Be Patient: Don’t rush people; give them time to say 
what they have to say. 
People in Conflict Will Use the Panel Process When: 
e The benefits of resolving their dispute through concil- 
iation are apparent. 
e They believe that they can resolve their conflicts by 
using the Panel process. 
e They are convinced that their conflict should be 
resolved, and that neighborhood conciliation is 
their best alternative. 
¢ They realize that the program will respond to their 
dispute quickly and at no cost. 
SSR 
AA 
aS 
e There are dozens of local mediation-oriented newsletters 
popping up, but this is the best. 
Mediation Quarterly: John Allen Lemmon, Editor. $25/year 
(4 issues) from Jossey-Bass, Inc., 433 California St., San 
Francisco, CA 94104. 
