72) ONEY IS NOT CONTRADICTORY 
x| 
to craftwork. Your main inspiration for 
\4\{| starting a business may have been your 
k 
love of your craft rather than money, but 
to succeed with your crafts business you’ll need to 
make both well. Once you do, it will seem like the 
best of all possible worlds — doing what you love 
and getting paid for it. 
—David Jouris 
Goodfellow Catalogs of Wonderful Things 
These are mail order catalogs of crafts available directly 
A 
Our carousel figures of classical design are made from 
Brazilian Honduras mahogany or poplar. Each animal 
is singly handcarved and engineered using traditional 
stack lamination and joint work. Both natural and col- 
ored finishes are applied. 
| —The Goodfellow Catalog 
from craftspeople from all over the country, giving each 
one a page fo explain a bit about who they are and what 
they do, as well as showing photos of the crafts they 
make. (For information on how to be listed write to the 
Goodfellow Catalog Press, P. O. Box 4520, Berkeley, 
CA 94704.) 
—David Jouris 
of Wondertul Things for Home & Office 
Tempting! 
—_JB 
*Goodfellow Catalog of Wonderful Things for the Home 
and Office 
Car comb by Ellen 
*Goodfellow Catalog of Wonderful Things — Gifts 
Halloran. Approx. 3’ 
Under $50 
end to end. In nickel 
silver, $17.50 each. 
In sterling silver, 
$36 each. 
—Gifts Under $50 
*Goodfellow Catalog of Wonderful Things to Wear 
& Wear & Wear 
*Goodfellow Catalog of Wonderful Things for Kids of 
All Ages 
The Crafts Business Encyclopedia 
, 
Another situation arises in which craftspeople may not 
even consider that they are cutting the price. This hap- 
pens when you take a booth at a craft show and sell 
your work at prices below those that are charged by 
nearby retail stores which stock your craft objects. 
Undermining the retailer’s established price for your 
work when you are, in effect, in direct competition with 
him, is ill advised. You’re in town for only a few days. 
The retail store (you hope) will sell your work all year 
long and reorder from you in the future. 
Its big advantage over the other crafts business guides is 
that entries are organized in convenient dictionary form. 
It’s a good general reference guide which will either fell 
you what you want to know about the crafts business or, if 
not, where to find out. 
—Marilyn Green 
You may want to ask yourself (and the gallery owner) a 
few other questions: do you have any say in the manner 
in which your work is displayed, or what is shown near 
yours; what happens if you and the gallery owner don’t 
see eye to eye; how are you protected if the gallery goes 
bankrupt; does the gallery have the right to put your 
e 
work out on loan; does the gallery’s sales contract with 
Price is another factor. The higher the price, the greater 
its customer include a clause that gives you a share in 
the public’s perception of quality (and vice versa). The 
any increased value if the work is later resold by the 
story is told of a supermarket which installed carpeting. 
customer at a higher price; does the gallery want your 
The public stayed away in droves. Carpeting was asso- 
work exclusively or can you sell to and through anyone; 
ciated in the public’s mind with high priced stores. Not a 
when and how does the gallery pay you, and what kind 
single price had been changed in the supermarket, but 
of records does it keep? 
the image had changed. 
Health Hazards Manual 
for Artists 
Who would expect to be poisoned by sawing a red cedar 
board? (The sawdust causes severe asthma.) Back when 
we didn’t know any better such things were common, and 
many folks, including nonartists, are still needlessly hurt. 
No excuse though — this book briefly discusses known 
hazards by specific art or craft. There’s an especially 
good chapter on protecting children. Wintergreen- 
flavored library paste isn’t mentioned. | suppose if it 
were toxic we'd have lost an entire generation. 
—JB 
e 
In many instances, powders can be mixed in a simple, 
enclosed glove box as shown. The box can be made of 
cardboard and sealed inside with shellac or a similar 
sealant to make it easier to clean. The purpose of the 
glove box is to prevent dust from escaping. 
¢ This elegant magazine comes with membership in the 
American Craft Council. 
American Craft: Louis Morgan, Editor; $39.50/year (6 issues) 
from American Craft Council, Membership Dept., 401 Park 
Avenue South, New York, NY 10016. 
¢ Keep up with crafts business news in The Crafts Report: 
Michael Scott, Editor; $16.75/year (11 issues) from The Crafts 
Report Publishing Co., Inc., 700 Orange Street, Wilmington, 
DE 19801. 
CRAFT BUSINESS | 99 
Goodfellow 
Catalogs of 
Wonderful 
Things* 
Christopher Weills, 
Editor-in-Chief 
1984; 200-300 pp. 
$1 4.95 each 
($17.20 postpaid) from: 
Chilton Book Co. 
Cash Sales Dept. 
Chilton Way 
Radnor, PA 19089 
or Whole Earth Access 
Crafts Business 
Encyclopedia 
Michael Scott 
1977; 286 pp. 
$5.95 
($6.64 postpaid) from: 
Harcourt Brace 
Jovanovitch 
1250 6th Avenue, 4th floor 
San Diego, CA 92101 
or Whole Earth Access 
Heath Hazards 
Manual for Artists 
Michael McCann, Ph.d. 
1985; 100 pp. 
$7.95 
($8.95 postpaid) from: 
Foundation for the 
Community of Artists 
280 Broadway, Suite 412 
New York, NY 10007 
or Whole Earth Access 
