Back in 1967, the insights of Buckminster Fuller initiated The Whole Earth Catalog. 
v 
Fuller contended that it is easier to reform the built environment than reform people, that the world’s 
resources can be distributed better by doing more with less (“ephemeralization”) than by war. To 
demonstrate this principle, he developed a number of resource-efficient artifacts, including his famous 
geodesic domes, which shelter a space with 1/ 50th of the material required by conventional construction. 
He referred to himself as “Guinea Pig B” (for Bucky), living his life as an experiment showing what one 
person might accomplish. 
Bucky’s everything-is-connected-to-everything vision and highly detailed language make some of his writing 
and lecturing hard to follow if you’re new to it. I’d start with a book about him, the autobiographical 
Buckminster Fuller, or The Dymaxion World of Buckminster Fuller (now out of print, but still available 
from his Institute; see below). Next try Critical Path, a book that chronicles human evolution right up to 
the present, then brilliantly outlines the path we must take for species survival. Many people think it’s his 
best, most easily understood book. For the details, you'll have to work hard reading Synergetics 1 and 2. 
In them, Bucky’s philosophy is set out complete with the math, geometry, and physics backing it. A 
recent doctoral dissertation, The Educational Philosophy of R. Buckminster Fuller, neatly consolidates 
Bucky’s views on dealing with ignore-ance. 
All of Bucky’s books plus an extensive selection of maps, video tapes, and other artifacts are available from 
The Buckminster Fuller Institute (directed by his daughter, Allegra Fuller Snyder). The Institute manages 
his archives and coordinates those continuing Fuller’s work. Their newsletter, Trimtab, keeps you up to date 
ACK IN 1951, when I was 18, the insights of Buckminster Fuller initiated my education. I was 
=, particularly impressed by his assertion that if a person is sensitive enough to identify “as-yet- 
°C unattended-to human-environment-advantaging physical evolutionary tasks,” and is disciplined 
Sie 
and committed enough to attend to them, there is no need to worry about earning a living. 
(I’ve found this to be true — I’ve never looked for a job since then.) 
with what’s new, of which there is plenty. Guinea Pig B has left us lots to do. 
Here comes this wave. Look at all this whiteness and all 
those bubbles. | said to myself, ‘’I’ve been taught at 
school that to be able to design a model — because a 
bubble is a sphere — you have to use pi, and the num- 
ber, pi, 3.14159265, on and on goes the number.’’ We 
find it cannot be resolved because it is a transcendental 
irrational. So | said, ‘“When nature makes one of those 
bubbles, how many places did she have to carry out pi 
before she discovered you can’t resolve it? And at what 
point does nature decide to make a fake bubble?” | 
said, “| don’t think nature is turning out any fake 
bubbles, | think nature’s not using pi.”’ This 
made me start looking for ways in which nature did con- 
trive all mensurations, all her spontaneous associations, 
without using such numbers. 
—Buckminster Fuller 
e 
Physics has found no solids! So to keep on teaching our 
children the word solid immediately is to drive home a 
way of thinking that is going to be neither reliable nor 
useful. 
There are no surfaces, there are no solids, there are no 
straight lines, there are no planes. 
—Buckminster Fuller 
There comes a time, however, when we discover other 
ways of doing the same task more economically — as, 
for instance, when we discover that a 200-ton tra nsoceanic 
jet airplane — considered on an annual round-trip- 
frequency basis — can outperform the passenger- 
carrying capability of the 85,000-ton Queen Mary. 
—Critical Path 
ae 
© Also see World Game and A Dymaxion Map (p. 89). 
e You can make geodesic models with the kits in Edmund's 
Scientific catalog (p. 389). 
| am not a thing — a noun. 
| am not flesh. At eighty- 
five, | have taken in over a 
thousand tons of air, food, 
and water, which temporarily 
became my flesh and which 
progressively disassociated 
from me. You and | seem to 
be verbs — evolutionary pro- 
cesses. Are we not integral 
functions of the Universe? 
—Critical Path 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
FULLER 2I 
—Stewart Brand 
—JB 
is 
Lege 
OS 
ee 
Foes 
oem 
iy Sea ray Hee 
Lie Gia i 
@ 
1053.832 Radiation outcasts. Radiation does not broad- 
cast; broadcast is a planar statement; there are no planes. 
Out is inherently omnidivergent. Radiation omnicasts but 
does not and cannot incast; it can only go-in-to-go-out. 
In is gravity. 
1053.833 If radiation ‘“goes through’ a system and 
comes out on the other side, it does so because (1) there 
was no frequency interference — it just occurred between 
the system’s occurrence frequencies — or (2) there was 
tangential interference and deflection thereby of the angle 
of travel, wherefore it did not go through; it went by. 
—Synergetics 
Buckminster Fuller (An Autobiographical Monologue / 
Scenario): Documented and Edited by Robert Snyder, 1980; 
218 pp. $18.95 postpaid. 
The Dymaxion World of Buckminster Fuller: Buckminster 
Fuller and Robert Marks, 1960; 246 pp. 
$11.95 postpaid. 
Critical Path: Buckminster Fuller, 1981; 471 pp. 
$11.95 postpaid. 
Synergetics: Buckminster Fuller, 1975; 876 pp. 
$16.95 postpaid. 
Synergetics 2: Buckminster Fuller, 1979; 592 pp. 
$16.95 postpaid. 
Trimtab Bulletin: Allegra Fuller Snyder and Janet Brown, 
Editors. $8/year (6 issues); information free. 
All from Buckminster Fuller Institute, 1743 South La Cienega 
Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90035 (or Whole Earth Access). 
The Educational Philosophy of R. Buckminster Fuller: Alex 
Gerber, Jr., 1985; 351 pp. $42 postpaid from University of 
Southern California, Library Photo Duplication Service, Uni- 
versity Park, Los Angeles, CA 90089. 
