COMMUNICATIONS 
MEDIA CULTURE 313 
Understanding Media 
That media are extensions of our senses — telephone for 
ears, computers for mind — and that these new media 
are forces in themselves, the main event, regardless of 
what they bother to say (“‘the medium is the message”’), 
are insights originating from McLuhan. That the media 
immediately engulfed McLuhan’s ideas, and made them 
at once obvious and degrees more consequential, is part 
of his message. 
—Kevin Kelly 
Everybody talks about McLuhan, and everybody does 
something about him, and that makes it subjectively 
harder to get at him. He’s got other insights than what 
you hear about, so it’s worth the trouble to track him 
down. The primest McLuhan is Understanding Media. 
—Stewart Brand 
The electric light ended the regime of night and day, of 
indoors and out-of-doors. But it is when the light encoun- 
ters already existing patterns of human organization that 
the hybrid energy is released. Cars can travel all night, 
ball players can play all night, and windows can be left 
out of buildings. In a word, the message of the electric 
light is total change. It is pure information without any 
content to restrict its transforming and informing power. 
Man the food-gatherer reappears incongruously as 
information-gatherer. In this role, electronic man is no 
less a nomad than his paleolithic ancestors. 
Everybody experiences far more than he understands. 
Yet it is experience, rather than understanding, that in- 
fluences behavior, especially in collective matters of 
media and technology, where the individual is almost in- 
evitably unaware of their effect upon him. 
It is a principal aspect of the electric age that it 
establishes a global network that has much of the 
character of our central nervous system. Our central 
nervous system is not merely an electric network, but 
it constitutes a single unified field of experience. As 
biologists point out, the brain is the interacting place 
where all kinds of impressions and experiences can be 
exchanged and translated, enabling us to react fo the 
world as a whole. 
Culture Is Our Business 
McLuhan’s best format. Each pair of pages has a reprint 
of an ad on the right, and fresh McLuhan aphorisms, 
quotes, and misquotes on the left. The resulting energy 
across the spread is economic and multi-directional — 
i.e., you make if. 
This book should be restored to print. His news stays news. 
—Stewart Brand 
One of the many flips of our time is that the electric in- 
formation environment returns man to the condition of 
the most primitive prober and hunter. Privacy invasion is 
now one of our biggest knowledge industries. 
The great corporations are new tribal families. It was 
the tribal and feudal family form that was dissolved by 
“‘nationalism.”’ 
In the sixteenth century religion went inward and private 
with Gutenberg hardware. Liturgy collapsed. Bureaucracy 
boomed. Today liturgy returns. Bureaucracy fades. 
When the evolutionary process shifts from 
biology to software technology the body 
becomes the old hardware environment. The 
human body is now a probe, a laboratory for 
experiments. In the middle of the nineteenth 
century Claude Bernard was the first medical 
man fo conceive of le milieu intérieur. He 
saw the body, not as an oufer object, but as an 
inner landscape, exactly as did the new 
painters and poets of the avant garde. 
@ 
Invention is the mother of necessity. 
Culture Is 
Our Business 
Marshall McLuhan 
OUT OF PRINT 
McGraw-Hill Book. Co. 
No Sense of Place 
TV, telephones, and movies explode. The Earth shrinks. 
Social behavior alters. Childhood, a recent invention, 
disappears again. All heroes die. Places become events. 
The rest of this show, hinted at early by McLuhan, is 
rehearsed here in this analytical book. The news is not 
new; the comprehensible and comprehensive evidence is. 
—Kevin Kelly 
e 
In contrast to print, television does not allow control 
over what is ‘“expressed’’ along with what is ‘’communi- 
cated.’’ Television news programs, for example, cannot 
escape presenting a wide range of personal expressions 
A 
IE 
A TET LO TS RE 
II LE 
SI IE IEE SOO EASES 
¢ A weekly insider’s view of advertising and mainstream 
magazine publishing can be found in Advertising Age: 
$57/year (52 issues) from 965 East Jefferson, Detroit, 
MI 48207. 
¢ See Media Law (p. 205). 
in addition to ‘‘objective facts.’’ Rather than attempting 
to fight this aspect of television news, producers have 
taken the parts of the back region that are difficult to 
hide and thrust them into the show itself. This is especial- 
ly true of local news programs. Backstage expressiveness, 
personal feelings, informal interaction, and ad-libbed 
jokes have become an important aspect of the perfor- 
mance. Similarly, many television quiz and talk shows 
have abandoned attempts to hide microphones, camera 
operators, ‘‘applause”’ signs, and cue cards. 
We cannot select uses for new media that advance old 
goals without often altering the social systems out of 
which the goals developed. We cannot, for example, 
‘buy the wife’ a television set to ease her boredom 
with housework without changing her sense of place in 
the world. We cannot use television to ‘‘educate’’ our 
children without simultaneously altering the functions of 
reading and the structure of the family and the school. .. 
. 
We cannot have mediated intimacy with our political 
leaders, in the hope of getting closer to greatness, with- 
out losing a belief in heroes. And if we use media to 
teach many different groups about each other, we also 
change the lines of social association and the perimeters 
of group identities. 
Understanding 
Media 
Marshall McLuhan 
1964; 320 pp. 
$4.95 
($5.95 postpaid) from: 
New American Library 
120 Woodbine Street 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621 
or Whole Earth Access 
If nature didn't, Warner's will. 
No Sense of Place 
Joshua Meyrowitz 
1985; 416 pp. 
$24.95 
postpaid from: 
Oxford University Press 
16-00 Pollitt Drive 
Fair Lawn, NJ 07410 
or Whole Earth Access 
