COMMUNITY 
TACTICS 
104 
How Can I Help? 
Ram Dass 
and Paul Gorman 
1985; 243 pp. 
$5.95 
($6.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
Order Dept. 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
Women Winning 
Barbara M. Trafton 
1984; 164 pp. 
$9.95 
($11.20 postpaid) from: 
Kampmann & Company 
9 East 40th Street 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth Access 
How to Make 
Meetings Work 
Michael Doyle and 
David Straus 
1976; 301 pp. 
$3.95 
($4.70 postpaid) from: 
Berkley Publishing Group 
390 Murray Hill Parkway 
East Rutherford, NJ 07073 
or Whole Earth Access 
| 
od 
A clearly legible record 
of the key ideas of the 
meeting taped to the walls 
is called a group memory. 
IKE IT OR NOT, if you’re involved in local politics you will have to deal with the press. Whether 
you want publicity or need secrecy, at some point the newspapers and broadcast media will 
become a factor in your plans. 
In any community with a population of more than about 500 people situated within a half-day’s 
drive of a modern metropolis, newspapers and TV will be the dominant means of political communication. 
In most moderate-to-large towns and cities, events that are not reported in the local papers (or on the local 
TV news) might as well not have happened — at least as far as most of the population is concerned. 
If you’re working in any sort of community politics, read the local newspapers, watch the local TV news, 
listen to the radio talk shows. The media may be lousy, but that’s how most people in town learn about 
their community — and if nothing else, you need to know what they’re being told. Learn the names and 
follow the records of all the local officials. Chances are no matter what your cause, a few are potential allies. 
I can’t stress this last point enough. A lot of my friends can talk for hours about “green politics” and “bio- 
regional perspectives,” but they don’t know the name of their city council members. They can identify every 
warring faction in Chad (and which superpower supports each one), but they don’t know where their garbage 
goes. I don’t care what you think about electoral politics or mass media — they are part of your community 
right now, like it or not, and you need to learn how they work. 
—Tim Redmond 
TLS DES 
NFS 
ET 
ES BS 
TE SE 
TS 
TE TT 
TESTE TTT 
How Can | Help? 
Ram Dass and Paul Gorman approach charitable service 
as a liberation from the prison of self and separateness, 
and as a solution to the inarticulate loneliness we feel 
when we lack a connection to others. The anecdotes are 
the best part here, and the reader wants more of them. 
Between people’s stories, the authors narrate simple 
psychology directed to the helping professions. 
—Sallie Tisdale 
@ 
There’s one thing I’ve learned in twenty-five years or so 
of political organizing: People don’t like to be ‘’should’’ 
upon. They’d rather discover than be told. 
The basic social institution is the individual human heart. 
It is the source of the energy from which all social action 
derives its power and purpose. The more we honor the 
integrity of that source, the more chance our actions 
have of reaching and stirring others. 
How to Make Meetings Work 
It always amazes me how a group of otherwise pleasant 
people can go collectively insane as soon as they get in a 
meeting together. Anyone who suffers through the wrang- 
ling and frustration of poorly run meetings will find this 
book very useful. | particularly like its emphasis on achieving 
consensus, a worthy goal that lots of people talk about 
without knowing much of how it can be achieved. 
—Linda Williams 
The very presence of the group memory has many bene- 
ficial effects. It provides a physical focus for the group. 
Women Winning 
The advent of women as candidates for elected offices in 
America began in earnest in the 1970s. This book conveys 
the excitement of a new group reaching out for elected 
political power and also includes strategic and organ- 
izational advice that candidates of either sex will find 
valuable. The author is a Democratic Party committee- 
woman and a seasoned veteran of six years in the Maine 
state legislature. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Over the past decade most women candidates have 
underemphasized the planning stage of campaigning. . 
You can develop a solid strategy at the outset if you 
follow these fundamental principles: 
1. Know your message. 
2. Know the issues. 
3. Know the voters. 
4. Know the limits of your resources. 
Once you’ve determined what your message will be, 
your brochures, newspaper interviews, radio spots, 
balloons, door hangers, and all your other campaign 
materials should be designed to deliver your message to 
the voters. 
A door hanger with detachable return card. 
LL 
LE IE TE IT LTE I 
IES IT 
STE EIS LEE ATE 
Rather than sitting in a closed circle around a conference 
table, channeling their energies toward each other, the 
members sit in a semicircle and automatically focus their 
energies on the problem as represented by the group 
memory. This simple change can make a tremendous 
difference. 
an
Nh 
ole
