COMMUNITY 
PEACE 
94 
Whole Earth 
Security: 
A Geopolitics 
of Peace 
(Worldwatch Paper 55) 
Daniel Deudney 
1983; 93 pp. 
$4 postpaid from: 
Worldwatch Institute 
1776 Massachusetts 
Avenue NW 
Washington, DC 20036 
The Evolution 
of Cooperation 
Robert Axelrod 
1984; 241 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid from: 
Basic Books, Inc. 
10 East 53rd Street 
New York, NY 10022 
or Whole Earth Access 
agai 
| oh on VET 
Gandhi on 
Non-Violence 
Thomas Merton, Editor 
1965; 82 pp. 
$4 postpaid from: 
W. W. Norton 
500 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10110 
or Whole Earth Access 
r 
Merely to refuse military 
service is not enough.... 
This is [to act] after all the 
time for combating evil is 
practically gone. 
Whole Earth Security: 
A Geopolitics of Peace 
Ninety-three pages. The most original analysis of the 
nuclear impasse in print, leading to the most realistic 
and hopeful policy. The new terrain of battle contains the 
transformation of impasse into sight. 
A masterpiece. 
—Stewart Brand 
With the advent of planetary warmaking, security strategy 
has been based on the militarization of the commons — 
the ocean depths, the atmosphere and orbital space. 
With the enclosure of the planet by warmaking systems, 
security itself has become indivisible, 
a commons in its 
own right. Common security has ceased being utopian and 
unnecessary and become both possible and necessary. 
e 
The arms control process has stimulated weapons inno- 
vation by encouraging the search for new ‘‘bargaining 
chips’’ to be traded off at the next round of negotiations. 
Less able to express itself with quantitative growth, the 
military turned with renewed vigor to qualitative growth 
and to areas of weapons technology beyond the existing 
restraining treaties. Superpower arms control to date 
is like treating an infection with just enough antibiotics 
to make the grosser symptoms disappear, soothing the 
patient’s worries, but driving the remaining, now strength- 
ened contagions into more vital, less accessible organs. 
@ 
The next several hundred, if not thousands, of years of 
human history could be decisively shaped in little more 
than an hour. The time span of decision making has be- 
come shorter at the point of inception and longer at the 
point of consequence. Only by dismantling the technical 
apparatus of planetary holocaust can the scale of con- 
sequence be brought into line with the responsibility. 
a 
SSS 
The Evolution of Cooperation 
The “‘Prisoner’s Dilemma”’ is a situation where two indi- 
viduals can choose to cooperate with each other or not 
cooperate (defect). If they both cooperate they each get 
three points. If they both defect they each get one point. 
If one cooperates and one defects, the cooperator gets 
zero and the defector gets five. Axelrod uses this non- 
zero-sum game to explain the arms race, international 
relations and the interaction of regulatory agencies with 
those they regulate. 
First the good news: in a population of individuals inter- 
ested in their own welfare, where no central authority 
exists, it pays to cooperate. Cooperative rules “‘won’’ 
over noncooperative ones in simulated iterations. 
Now the bad: in the same situations it also pays to be 
provokable (to defect in retaliation). Rules that were totally 
cooperative without retaliation did not win. 
There is little value for complexity here. The best strategy 
is simple enough to be readily recognized by another 
player. No strategy is a winning strategy by itself. It can 
only be judged by its interaction with other strategies. 
—Judith Brophy 
The universe in a grain of sand. The grain is a mathemat- 
ical/sociological paradox, much studied, called “’Prisoner’s 
Dilemma.”’ The universe is the one we might survive into 
if these lessons are believed and applied. Scholarly tour- 
de-force. 
—Stewart Brand 
The foundation of cooperation is not really trust, but the 
durability of the relationship. . 
. 
. Whether the players 
trust each other or not is less important in the long run 
than whether the conditions are ripe for them to build a 
stable pattern of cooperation with each other. 
Gandhi on Non-Violence 
You might as well go straight to the fountainhead and 
listen to the piercing words of the humblest servant of 
nonviolence, Mahatma Gandhi. No one else’s example in 
modern times has so radically shifted so many people’s 
lives (mine included) as this “‘half-naked”’ saint. The late 
Thomas Merton, a Christian monk with his own inspiring 
life of nonviolence, selected the few statements Gandhi 
wrote down of his experiment in truth for this slim volume. 
As Gandhi said, ‘Nonviolence cannot be preached. It 
has to be practiced.”’ 
—Kevin Kelly 
Reading Gandhi's words is scary. They will start 
something in your mind and break down barriers of 
“that’s impossible’ and then you don’t know what your 
life will do. New British officials in old India were told, 
“Stay away from Gandhi. He’ll get you.’’ Don’t speak to 
him personally, were the instructions, don’t listen to him 
speak from a crowd. Because he said “‘always ally yourself 
with the part of your enemy that knows what is right’’ and 
he knew how to do it. He also knew that what is right is 
inherently possible, and he’ll make you think that, too. 
—Anne Herbert 
To me it is a self-evident truth that if freedom is to be 
shared equally by all — even physically the weakest, the 
lame and the halt — they must be able to contribute an 
equal share in its defense. How that can be possible 
when reliance is placed on armaments, my plebian mind 
fails to understand. | therefore swear and shall continue 
to swear by non-violence, i.e., by satyagraha, or soul 
force. In it physical incapacity is no handicap, and even 
a frail woman or a child can pit herself or himself on 
equal terms against a giant armed with the most 
powerful weapons. 
Non-Violence in Great Nations? 
If they can shed the fear of destruction, if they disarm 
themselves, they will automatically help the rest to 
regain their sanity. But then these great powers will have 
to give up their imperialistic ambitions and their exploit- 
ation of the so-called uncivilized or semi-civilized nations 
of the earth and revise their mode of life. It means a 
complete revolution. 
| do not appreciate any underground activity. Millions 
cannot go underground. Millions need not. 
We have all — rulers and ruled — been living so long in 
a stifling, unnatural atmosphere that we might well feel 
in the beginning that we have lost the lungs for breathing 
the invigorating ozone of freedom. 
Under no circumstances can India and England give 
non-violent resistance a reasonable chance while they 
are both maintaining full military efficiency. 
e 
Non-violent opposition: 
1) It implies not wishing ill. 
2) It includes total refusal to cooperate with or participate 
in activities of the unjust group, even to eating food 
that comes from them. 
3) It is of no avail to those without living faith in the God 
of love and love for all mankind. 
4) He who practices it must be ready to sacrifice 
everything except his honor. 
5) It must pervade everything and not be applied merely 
to isolated acts. 
