COMMUNITY 
CITIES 
12 
& 
How The Other 
Half Builds 
Witold Rybezynski et al. 
1984; 89 pp. 
$6.00 
($8.00 Canadian) 
postpaid from: 
Center for 
Minimum Cost Housing 
3550 University Street 
Montreal, Quebec 
H3A 2A7, Canada 
or Whole Earth Access 
460 t 560 F— 
loll 
ip 
CLEANING 
BICYCLE 
National Trust 
For Historic 
Preservation 
Membership 
$15 
(includes subscriptions to 
Historic Preservation and 
Preservation News) from: 
National Trust for 
Historic Preservation 
1785 Massachusetts 
Avenue NW 
Washington, DC 20036 
oO 
™ 
o 
| 
SHS 
STORY TELLING 
‘Gy 
LANNERS SEEM TO BE getting 
better at tempering idealism — not 
by selling out, but by developing en- 
vironmentally and socially effective 
designs that can attract financiers. 
Don’t lose hope yet! 
—J. Baldwin 
How the Other Half Builds 
““Existing informal sector housing, often termed slums, 
represents a solution rather than a problem.” This is a 
radical concept to many theoretical low-income housing 
planners, but not to its author, Witold Rybczynski; he’s well- 
known for puncturing the ineffectual arguments of self- 
righteous do-gooders. The basic premise is simple: In order 
to determine what to plan as housing for the poor, find out 
what they need; to find out what they need, go see what 
they’ve done without the aid of planners. You‘d think this 
would go without saying, but planners offen are blinded 
by class differences and elitist educations. This paper should 
help, and not just in less-developed areas of the world. The idea 
that the people can handle a lot of their own needs 
should be a major premise of any democratic society. 
This paper is the first of a series. The second part should 
be available as you read this. 
—JB 
Recommended 
yan dimensions of 
o 
© 
spaces for 
human activity. 
hig vat 
12 eal 
BATH SQUAT TING 
The priorities of the slum-dweller are frequently not those 
of the municipal authorities. Space takes precedence over 
permanence. A porch may be built before a bathroom; 
a work place may be more important than a private bed- 
room. The apparent inversion of values is especially evident 
in the public spaces. Whereas planned sites and services 
projects usually incorporate rudimentary, minimal circu- 
lation spaces, the public areas of slums are characterized 
by richness and diversity. 
Historic Preservation 
e Preservation News 
It may be ironic, but the best hope for preserving wonderful 
old buildings — conservation — is innovation. Imaginative 
new uses for the aging structures plus creative methods of 
finance are what it takes. Confrontation and emotional 
hassling don’t usually work. The sophisticated techniques 
of preservation are discussed, in color, in the bimonthly 
Historic Preservation magazine. News from the front lines 
arrives in the monthly Preservation News. Both come with 
a membership in the lively National Trust for Historic 
Preservation. 
—JB 
@ 
The effect of letting the real estate market do as it pleases 
is to be far less conservative in the long run. What, in 
the final analysis, do conservatives really wish to con- 
serve? At a time in which there is no real social contract 
so far as building is concerned, no real community of 
values in the urban environment, the laissez-faire city is 
not likely to be the civilized city. It is more likely to be the 
overbuilt city, the tense, dark, harsh city, the city whose 
lack of grace should be far more threatening to the 
values of a true conservative. 
Displacement 
Displacement 
Chester Hartman, 
Dennis Keating, and 
Richard LeGates 
1982; 224 pp. 
| 0 postpaid from: 
National Housing 
One of Atlantic City’s pro- 
posed casinos purchased an 
entire block for their pro- 
ject. A lone resident refused 
to sell, even after an offer 
Law Project 
of over $1 million, plus life- 
2150 Shattuck A 
time free residence in the 
GTTUCK 
Ave. 
new hotel. After she turned 
No. 300 
the offer down, construction 
Berkeley, CA 94704 
went ahead around her. 
Few experiences provoke as much frustration, outrage, 
and even grief as being forced to move. It’s distressingly 
common — 2.5 million U.S. residents are displaced from 
their homes and neighborhoods each year. It’s happened 
to me and many people | know. Written by a nationwide 
team of community lawyers and organizers, Displace- 
ment describes all the methods by which you could be 
thrown out of your house — evictions, condo conversions, 
rent hikes, arson, and mortgage foreclosures just for 
starters — and the (mostly) legal methods for fighting 
back. (Sometimes the government eventually learns it’s 
cheaper to give illegal squatters their occupied houses 
than to keep them empty.) Individuals about to lose their 
homes should look here, but the book is really about 
building and maintaining neighborhoods. It will instruct 
you in the legal hassling which is unfortunately necessary 
to keep a neighborhood intact. 
—Art Kleiner 
In places with no or weak laws regulating condo con- 
versions, negotiating with the converter is an important 
tactic. Concessions won this way are nothing to be sneezed 
at. They might include lowering the sales price for all 
units, paying moving costs and relocation bonuses, ex- 
tending time for tenants to move, or even reserving 
some units for low- and moderate-income tenants. 
Negotiating for concessions is actually another term for 
squeezing the converter’s profits. It’s possible — even 
though many of the concessions listed above are quite 
costly to the developer — since speed is one of the im- 
portant factors in the most lucrative forms of conversion. 
The converter’s objective is to sell all the units in a 
building as quickly as possible and move on, tying up 
borrowed capital as briefly as possible. So substantial 
concessions often will be made simply to avoid delays. 
¢ Two founders of the New Alchemy Institute (p. 89) make 
some interesting urban proposals based on the Institute’s work. 
Bioshelters, Ocean Arks, City Farming (Ecology as the Basis 
of Design): Nancy Jack Todd and John Todd, 1984; 210 pp. 
$10.95 ($13.45 postpaid) from Sierra Club Bookstore, 730 Polk 
Street, San Francisco, CA 94109 (or Whole Earth Access). 
