PSYCHOLOGICAL SELF-CARE 
HEALTH 227 
Do | Have To Give Up Me 
To Be Loved By You? 
Traditional concepts of romantic commitment can no 
longer sustain relationships. The intimacy that we all seek 
breaks down in the face of competing demands and con- 
flicting expectations. This book provides a new model, 
based on personal growth in a committed relationship, to 
fill the gap created by the collapse of old forms. They 
supply practical tools for understanding and communicat- 
ing about the intense feelings that are often provoked by 
a long-term relationship or marriage. The last part of the 
book contains exercises that have proved to be valuable 
to many of the couples I’ve seen in therapy. 
—Michael Robertson 
It’s hard to believe that we aren’t wrong for actions that 
upset another; we've been told so many times that doing 
what we want is selfish. But when we do something for 
ourselves that unintentionally offends another’s sensibili- 
ties and/or frightens him or her, have we done wrong? If 
you believe that you should never do something for 
yourself if it hurts someone you care for — that is, you 
should give yourself up if your mate is hurt by something 
you want to do — then whenever you meet your own 
Madness Network News 
I’ve never gone crazy enough at the right time for 
somebody to grab my ass, lock me up, and pump me full 
of social drugs and electricity, so that | might be a milder 
member of modern American society. Thousands of folks 
are sleeping behind bars tonight because they got a little 
weird once too often, or let their mind shine through a little 
too strongly at the wrong time, or pushed a relative just a 
little too far. 
Madness Network News and its Reader represent the col- 
lected efforts of a few folks to try “‘to put an end to the 
degrading and alienating practices of the psychiatric 
system.’’ The publications are full of scary things, funny 
things, crazy things, revolutionary things, all having some- 
thing to do with the overthrow of the mind control industry. 
—J.D. Smith 
e 
Lonely, hell! | feel crowded. 
Sometimes Catatonia sits with me for hours. | do not 
speak to her. She does not speak to me. We communicate 
this way. 
—Paul Mariah, Madness Network News Reader 
Panic 
The chapters ‘The Territory of Fear,’’ ‘The Descent of 
Panic,’’ and ‘‘Fears Abound”’ lead the reader through 
the escalation of anxiety from fear to phobia. The final 
chapter provides a useful self-assessment tool to help us 
decide if our fears are garden-variety or could benefit 
from professional help. Along the way, we are treated to 
a thorough explanation of both physiological and psycho- 
logical mechanisms of anxiety. Stewart Agras balances his 
descriptions of the strengths and weaknesses of different 
treatment approaches. He talks about the short-term effi- 
cacy of drug treatment while noting that it doesn’t address 
the belief system that maintains anxiety, resulting in possi- 
ble drug dependency. 
—Michael Robertson 
e 
Fears conditioned by association tend to be short-lived. 
Most conditioned reflexes will weaken and disappear 
after a few exposures to the fear-provoking event, quite 
unlike the more persistent fear and avoidance behavior 
that we call a phobia. One important finding may, how- 
ever, help to resolve this problem and explain how a 
needs, you'll feel guilty. You can’t win. If you don’t do 
what you want, you lose yourself, and if you do what 
you want, you'll feel guilty. You’re caught in a classic 
Catch-22. 
The choice is usually hard. Either we can be protected 
from feelings in an attempt to be safe or we can express 
feelings and be open to the joy and the pain they create. 
Since protecting from pain frustrates all intimate possi- 
bilities, the sharing of pain is the key to releasing us to 
Intimate Love. 
Although a request may hope to change the other per- 
son, it is not an attempt to control if the partner is free to 
say ‘’No’’ without disapproval, and free to say ‘’Yes’’ 
without feeling a loss of integrity. Often 
a demand may 
sound like a request, as in ‘Honey, would you take out 
the garbage?”’ If the response ‘’No, I’m busy right now’’ 
gets back a congenial ‘’Okay,’’ then the question has 
been a request. But if the retort is a sarcastic ‘’Thanks a 
lot,’’ or silent anger, then the question has been an 
attempt to control. 
Madness Network 
News Reader 
Edited by Sherry Hirsch, 
Joe Kennedy Adams, 
Leonard Roy Frank, et al. 
1974; 192 pp. 
$5 postpaid 
Madness Network 
News 
Sue Doell and 
Anne Boldt, Editors 
| 4lyear 
(3 issues) 
Both from: 
Madness Network News 
P. O. Box 884 
Berkeley, CA 94701 
or Whole Earth Access 
e@ 
Atwake we keep our dreams of sleep 
because we see life’s seems are cheap. 
—Marsha Lois Hunt, Madness Network News Reader 
conditioned fear response could persist and become a 
phobia. Avoidance of a feared situation blocks the nor- 
mal process of unlearning the fear response. 
Do | Have To Give 
Up Me To Be Loved 
By You? 
Jordan Paul, Ph.D., and 
Margaret Paul, Ph.D. 
1983; 313 pp. 
$9.95 
($11.45 postpaid) from: 
CompCare Publications 
2415 Annapolis Lane 
Minneapolis, MN 55441 
—Madness Network 
News Reader 
Panic 
Stewart Agras 
1985; 151 pp. 
$11.95 
($13.45 postpaid) from: 
W. H. Freeman & Co. 
4419 West 1980 South 
Salt Lake City, UT 84104 
or Whole Earth Access 
