RoOliTl 
JOHN E. SATTERFIELD, U.S.A. Silver necklace with A 
ivory plaque into which pique point silver wire and tubing 
has been inserted through holes made completely through 
the ground (when one-sided patterns are created) or 
partly through (when two-sided patterns are the aim). 
Tubes are flared slightly to fix them in place. In addition, 
epoxy resin mixed with a catalyst and color in powdered 
form is forced into some holes with a flexible knife. After 
setting, the entire surface is sanded with 400 or 600 grit 
wet/dry sandpaper. The process is repeated for another 
color. The colors used here are red and black. Plastic, 
nylon, Teflon, Delrin, or wood could also be used as a 
ground for pique work. 
@ 
<4 A miniature snarling iron. 
Jewelry Concepts and Technology 
“My stars!’’ is what my grandmother would say when 
confronted with the need for superlatives but unable to 
think of any that would fit. That’s what she’d say about 
this work. Total, comprehensive, magnificent, fascinating 
— your choice. Quite literally, Mr. Untracht has looked at 
every style, technique, form, and material (even plastic) 
used in jewelrymaking in just about every culture, past 
and present. History, symbolic meaning (something most 
jewelers seem to ignore), heretofore-secret methods are 
all shown in minute detail along with tables of metal 
characteristics. There’s seemingly no end to it, and it’s all 
presented in a way that makes it hard to quit reading 
even when your thing isn’t jewelry. In short, the book itself 
is a work of art. And obviously a work of love as well. 
Reading along I’ve also been struck by how few of us 
moderns really get into something, in depth, all the way. 
I’m amazed that one person could know all this. Physically, 
the book is well done too. Everything illustrated and 
diagrammed. All it lacks is wheels and a towbar to haul 
its massive bulk around. 
—JB 
This self-made tool is used to bulge small hollow forms, such as tubing, outward from within. 
Tap the shaft just above the clamped tang end with a small hammer held in the left hand. 
With each blow of the hammer, the end inserted in the tube vibrates, the ball kicks upward, 
each time making a bump appear on the tube wall. By watching the position where the 
bumps appear, and moving the tube accordingly, the bulging can be controlled. The effect 
of this tool’s action is exactly as if a repousse punch had been used on the open work. 
The Complete Metalsmith 
Let’s say you’re a jewelrymaker and you can’t figure out 
a way to make a hidden hinge for a box. So you write 
your uncle, the master goldsmith. He sits down, gets very 
stoned, and sends you a beautifully descriptive letter, 
complete with imaginative little drawings, written in a 
tight, clear hand. Now imagine a whole book on jewelry- 
making done in this very personal, friendly, and accessible 
way, and you have The Complete Metalsmith. The title to 
the contrary, this book won’t tell you much about black- 
smithing, titanium, or stainless steel, but it will tell you a 
lot about goldsmithing, and in a marvelous way. Tim 
McCreight’s style is light and humorous, as well as tech- 
nically knowledgeable. The book is visually and factually 
stimulating enough that | reread it a second time as soon 
as | finished it once, to try and take more of it in. The 
illustrations are clear, to the point, and homey. The quotes 
by everyone from Voltaire to W. C. Fields add a bit of 
Dixon Precision Tools 
and Equipment « Allcraft 
Here are two good sources for jewelrymaking equipage. 
Quality is high, with prices to match. Many of the tools 
are suitable for fine work other than jewelry. Both of these 
catalogs are full of tools Ill bet you didn’t know existed. 
Yum. 
—JB 
Busch Burs 
Busch burs are made of tungsten vanadium steel unless otherwise noted, have 3/32” diameter shanks, and are 
approximately 1-3/4” long. They are used primarily with the straight handpieces of flexible shaft machines. The 
wide variety of shapes and sizes offered is intended to fill the complete needs of jewelers, diesinkers, and other 
craftsmen with requirements for high quality precision burs. 
Busch Burs packed six to a plastic box. 
far-flung perspective. And | appreciate the safety alert 
symbols scattered throughout, used when describing a 
tool or technique that has a hazard potential. A gem of 
a handmade book. 
—David Clarkson 
—-WoRK 
ON 
AN ANVIL, PREFERASLY 
POLISHER 
- ANNEAL METAL BEFORE 
STARTING. 
: 
= USE STOCK THICK ENMGUGH TO ABSORB BLOW. 
= 
HOLD HANDLE WHERE IT IS COMFORTABLE. A LOWER GRIP INCREASES FOWER. 
= You MAY AL‘So CREATE A RICH SURFACE 
BY HAMMERING THE 
METAL ONTO ATEXTURE, LIKE RUSTED STEEL OR CONCRETE. 
Combination Pliers [#4] — Flat nose pliers with serrated A 
jaws and ‘’V’’ slot, combined with a wire cutter. 
No. 46.514-] — Overall length 5’’. Shipping weight 5 oz. 
No. 46.516-] — Overall length 512”’. Shipping weight 6 oz. 
—Dixon 
CRAFT 
JEWELRY 7 
Jewelry Concepts 
and Technology 
Oppi Untracht 
1982; 864 pp. 
$65 
postpaid from: 
Doubleday and Company 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
The Complete 
Metaismith 
Tim McCreight 
1984; 150 pp. 
$10.95 
postpaid from: 
Davis Publications 
Printers Building 
Worcester, MA 01608 
or Whole Earth Access 
Dixon 
Precision Tools 
and Equipment 
Catalog 
$5 from: 
William Dixon, Inc. 
750 Washington Avenue 
Carlstadt, NJ 07072 
Allcraft 
Catalog 
$3 from: 
Allcraft Tool & Supply 
Company, Inc. 
100 Frank Road 
Hicksville, NY 11801 
