LEARNING 
ENOUGH 
400 
Memories, Dreams, 
Reflections 
C.G. Jung 
1963; 430 pp. 
$6.95 
($7.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
Vintage Books 
Order Dept. 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
C.G. Jung: 
Word and Image 
Aniela Jaffe, Editor 
1979; 238 pp. 
$16.50 
postpaid from: 
Princeton University Press 
41 William Street 
Princeton, NJ 08540 
or Whole Earth Access 
At a Journal 
Workshop 
Ira Progoff 
1975; 320 pp. 
$9.95 
($11.70 postpaid) from: 
Dialogue House Library 
80 East 11th St., Suite 305 
New York, NY 10003 
or Whole Earth Access 
Memories, Dreams, Reflections 
| think there is no more remarkable autobiography in this 
century. Dream power and intellectual power collided in 
Jung’s life, merged finally, and carried him pilot-and- 
passenger on a psychic Gulf Stream, far and strange. He 
took 20th Century science with him. 
—Stewart Brand 
At the beginning of 1944 | broke my foot, and this mis- 
adventure was followed by a heart attack. In a state of 
unconsciousness | experienced deliriums and visions 
which must have begun when | hung on the edge of 
death and was being given oxygen and camphor in- 
jections. The images were so tremendous that | myself 
concluded that | was close to death. My nurse after- 
ward told me, “‘It was as if you were surrounded by a 
bright glow.’’ That was a phenomenon she had some- 
times observed in the dying, she added. | had reached 
the outermost limit, and do not know whether | was in 
a dream or an ecstasy. At any rate, extremely strange 
things began to happen to me. 
It seemed to me that | was high up in space. Far below | 
saw the globe of the earth, bathed in a gloriously blue 
light. | saw the deep blue seas and the continents. Far 
below my feet lay Ceylon, and in the distance ahead of 
me the subcontinent of India. My field of vision did not 
include the whole earth, but its global shape was plainly 
distinguishable and its outlines shone with a silvery 
gleam through that wonderful blue light. In many places 
the globe seemed colored or spotted dark green like oxi- 
dized silver. Far away to the left lay a broad expanse — 
the reddish-yellow desert of Arabia; it was as though the 
silver of the earth had there assumed a reddish-gold 
hue. Then came the Red Sea, and far, far back — as if in 
the upper left of a map — | could just make out a bit of 
the Mediterranean. My gaze was chiefly directed toward 
that. Everything else appeared indistinct. | could also 
C.G. Jung: Word and Image 
If not nothing, then Jung is surely image. This collection by an old 
collaborator of his takes his lifelong caterpillar-crawl of thought and 
gives it colorful flight and new life. Jung’s biography is visible, as 
well as the things he saw that moved him, the archetypal images he 
recognized, and his own bizarre beautiful paintings, carvings, build- 
ings. He lived with beautiful care. The book is bright and clear and 
—Stewart Brand 
not the slightest bit slick. 
ee 
Tree-man, by a thirty-five-year-old woman. Image of neurotically 
delayed development caused by psychic disturbances in childhood. Dif- 
ficulties centered around developing a will of her own. 
Symbol of the sacred in a ring of flames floating above 
the world of war and technology. Painted in 1920, it was 
inspired by a dream Jung had had on 22 January 1914, 
anticipating the outbreak of war in August 1914. 
—Word and Image 
see the snow-covered Himalayas, but in that direction it 
was foggy or cloudy. | did not look to the right at all. | 
knew that | was on the point of departing from the earth. 
Later | discovered how high in space one would have to 
be to have so extensive a view — approximately a thou- 
sand miles! The sight of the earth from this height was 
the most glorious thing | had ever seen. 
At a Journal Workshop 
Progoff, a former protege of psychologist Carl Jung, 
has devised an innovative way of keeping a psycho- 
logical journal. 
Like most Jungian psychologists, Progoff feels that each 
of us possesses self-directing, self-healing capacities 
which are not always accessible to our day-to-day con- 
sciousness. Persons seeking to get in touch with these 
capabilities have usually required professional guidance. 
The Intensive Journal method was developed to allow 
people to use journal-writing to gain entry to those capa- 
cities. 
(Progoff and his associates also teach his journal 
method through a series of weekend and week-long work- 
shops. For information about workshops in your area, 
write to the address below). 
Progoff writes of “going down our own well until we 
reach the underground stream 
. 
. 
. 
. We do not go down 
that well by analyzing or by any effort of will. Rather we 
focus ourselves inward, relax the analytical mind, and 
allow phrases, images, and memories to arise on their 
own.’” —Tom Ferguson, M.D. [Suggested by Brad Smith] 
Each person must be aware of his own tendencies, and 
they are different in this respect for each individual. 
We have found it often to be the case that when a per- 
son writes on and on in the Period Log, his extended 
verbalization tends to lead him away from the basic fac- 
tuality of his life. Educated people may especially be 
seduced into quasi-literary writing instead of basic, 
unvarnished statements of their inner experience. 
At the point where we read back to ourselves the contin- 
uity of dreams that we have collected in our Dream Log, 
a further step that extends our experience becomes pos- 
sible. Our purpose in feeding back these dreams to 
ourselves in their consecutive movement is not to enable 
us to interpret their movement, nor to ‘‘understand’”’ 
them, nor to analyze their ‘‘pattern.’’ Our purpose 
rather is to place ourselves back into the movement of 
our dream process as a whole so that the process can 
now freely extend itself. Having come this far, where else 
do our dreams wish to go? What else are they reaching 
for? What else do they wish to say to us? 
