(IZVESTIYA, Dec. 23) 
Pravda 
e Pravda 
Pulse 
| can imagine few things less inviting than reading Pravda, 
the official newspaper of the Communist Party of the 
Soviet union, over breakfast each morning. However, if 
you are looking for the official Soviet version of the news 
(and for interminable transcripts of Party Congress 
speeches), this is the place. Curiously enough, if you 
are looking for unexpected insights into Russian culture, 
Pravda is also worth checking out. You’re likely to dis- 
cover that prime-time TV fare in Moscow consists of 
I. Smoktunovsky reading verses from Pushkin! Since the 
English-language edition of Pravda has been turning up 
on some newsstands lately, you may be able to locate 
a recent copy nearby. 
As an alternative glimpse into the official news, Florida- 
based Pravda Pulse provides a bi-weekly eight to ten 
page newsletter condensing and excerpting the previous 
month’s articles. Pravda Pulse also reprints news items 
from Tass and Soviet radio, as well as the satirical car- 
toons of Krokodil, the Russian humor magazine. 
—Jay Kinney [Pravda suggested by Brian Siano] 
Managers caught distorting results quite often explain 
their ‘’slyness”’ like this: ‘“Well, sure, | may have added 
something, but then | worked it out.’’ As they say, just a 
white lie. It must be firmly declared that the law does not 
recognize a single valid reason that would justify deceiv- 
ing the State. The so-called ‘‘objective”’ difficulties with 
the delivery of materials and completed articles are also 
used as arguments of justification. Upon checking they 
quite often turn out to be the result of partners going 
easy on one another, inabilities, and at times a lack of 
desire to use legal means to influence violators of State 
discipline. .. 
. 
A criminal case brought against several workers of the 
Rostov Province Trade Administration can be cited as a 
serious warning. Former administration head K. Budnitsky 
found “‘like-minded”’ individuals within the RSFSR Trade 
Ministry, and for a bribe obtained favorable apportionments 
of transport, technological equipment, supplementary 
funds for textiles, clothes and shoes, and corrections 
of commodity circulation plans. Those taking bribes, 
as well as those doling them out, will be held 
criminally responsible. 
—Pravda 
Contra troops, slow to learn low-intensity methods. 
—Report on the Americas 
e For a contrasting view, see The Wall Street Journal (p. 312). 
¢ World politics are better understood when science news is 
considered as a primary force. See pp. 26-27. 
WORLD POLITICS 
NACLA Report on the Americas 
e MERIP Middle East Report 
Latin America and the Middle East: two hotspots, one 
near, one far. Their usual coverage in the media is as run- 
ning sores of strife and woe. These two magazines take a 
different tack, attempting to describe the regions with 
depth and sympathy. The North American Congress on 
Latin America and the Middle East Research and Infor- 
mation Project are nonprofit research groups whose forte 
is political and economic analysis. NACLA’s reports tend 
to be journalistic looks at the effect of U.S. foreign policy 
south of the border, while MERIP’s have a somewhat stif- 
fer academic stamp. Both have moved beyond the ‘‘Third 
Worldism’’ of the 60s New Left to a more considered 
approach where the complexities of real world politics are 
given their due. | recommend both for unexpected insights. 
—Jay Kinney 
@ 
In the marketplace in Omdurman, a large bazaar city 
across the Nile from Khartoum, there is a special section 
of the market totally controlled and regulated by women. 
They are often economically autonomous, and they ex- 
tend this autonomy into the domestic sphere (unlike the 
market women of Kumasi in Ghana). They are able to 
do this through the collective power they have built 
within their various kin networks as an extension of 
their workplace. Also, many of them live within walking 
distance of the market and are at their workplace most of 
the day, turning the work site into a temporary residence 
replete with a social network. The interface of kin, resi- 
dential and occupational networks gives the collectivity of 
the women’s market the potential for mobilization. 
. 
Behavior encouraged in the zaar gives women a rare 
chance for uninhibited entertainment and drama. At the 
zaar ceremonies | attended, the protagonists entered 
states of trance and the possessed exhibited bawdy or 
lewd behavior not acceptable in Sudanese society. These 
are often occasions for transvestism and sexual role- 
switching, with male homosexuals often acting as 
functionaries, and women playing male roles and being 
erotic toward other women. Those possessed by their 
spirits may also insult the males of their family and 
wear outlandish costumes. But the benefits are even 
more profound: 
There is ample evidence that women actively use this net- 
work to form friendship and patron-client relationships, 
to promote economic transactions, and to offer and gain 
services. Moreover, once established, the network tends 
to extend well beyond the actual activities of the cult 
itself. The reciprocity principle is quite strongly institution- 
alized in the Northern Sudan. 
e 
—MERIP Middle East Report 
Before engaging the enemy in the Third World, the 
advocates of low-intensity conflict must convince the 
Pentagon bureaucracy, civilian officials and other govern- 
ment agencies of their case. They must win over key 
decision-makers — both political and military — in the 
security establishments of their foreign allies. And, in- 
creasingly, they must complement this internal debate 
and diplomacy with a full-scale effort to rally the U.S. 
public behind the policy. 
Low-intensity conflict is also radical, however, in the 
comprehensiveness of its approach. It draws on a wide- 
ranging study of the different elements of conflict, few of 
which are strictly military. Researchers at think tanks and 
universities attempt to analyze and mimic the politico- 
military structures of revolutionary movements; others 
study the ‘‘backwards”’ tactics of guerrilla warfare, which 
invert traditional military rules of engagement, or delve 
into anthropology and social psychology; others still, like 
Britain’s Brig. Gen. Frank Kitson, dwell on the British and 
French colonial experiences, and propose sophisticated 
police states as the means for preventing insurgencies. 
—NACLA Report on the Americas 
COMMUNITY 93 
eee 
* PRA 
Pravda 
$630/ear 
(356 issues) from: 
Associate Publishers, Inc. 
2233 University Avenue 
Suite 225 
St. Paul, MN 55114 
Pravda Pulse 
Timothy Sinnott, Editor 
$64.20/ear 
(26 issues) from: 
News Pulse, Inc. 
Drawer 4323 
Fort Pierce, FL 33448 
NACLA Report 
on the Americas 
George Black, Editor 
$20\vear 
(6 issues) from: 
NACLA 
151 West 19th Street 
9th Floor 
New York, NY 10011 
MERIP Middle 
East Report 
Joe Stork, Editor 
$1 8iyear 
(6 issues) from: 
MERIP 
475 Riverside Drive 
New York, NY 10115 
