a 
eee 
Medical Self-Care 
As you might guess, this magazine encourages wellness — 
staying healthy — as the primary self-care. Articles are 
current, authoritative, and mercifully free of fearmonger- 
ing, hype, and fad. (Some of the ads aren’t quite as 
picky about that, though.) The issue | have here on my 
MEDICAL SELF-CARE 
desk has a thorough article on something | recently needed 
to know: Are those new Urgent Care Centers often found 
in shopping malls any good, or are they “’Docs-In-A-Box’’ 
and “‘Medical McDonald’s?’’ (The article says they’re 
mostly OK and half the price of an emergency room. 
That turned out to be the case.) Useful stuff. The book 
reviews are particularly good. 
—JB 
The Medical Self-Care Catalog 
A catalog of self-help medical tools put together by 
Medical Self-Care publisher Carole Pisarczyk. The 
catalog carries all kinds of handy gadgets to help you 
stay in shape and deal with health problems on your own 
— you can order your own black bag of medical tools, 
the ultimate back support cushion for your car, a heating 
pad that supplies moist heat, an otoscope for examining 
your kid’s ears, a doctor-quality bathroom scale, a child’s 
stethoscope, a vaginal speculum, an ovulation thermom- 
eter, a super-duper first aid kit, a chinning bar that slips 
into any door frame, and, as they say, much, much more. 
—Tom Ferguson, M.D. 
e 
MEDTYMER. Clinical studies show that more than half of 
people on regular medication do not take their medi- 
cines on schedule. MedTymer is a unique electronic cap 
that replaces the standard cap on most pill bottles. 
When it’s time to take your medication, MedTymer 
flashes a light and sounds a reminder. The reminder 
The Medical 
Self-Care Catalog 
Catalog free from: 
The Medical 
Self-Care Catalog 
P.O. Box 999 
Point Reyes, CA 94956 
beeper is automatically silenced when the cap is removed, 
and advanced to the next dose time when the cap is re- 
placed. Available in four different color-coded versions 
consistent with your prescription schedule, the MedTymer 
makes it virtually impossible to forget to take medications 
on time. Please specify 1 a-day, 2 a-day, 3 a-day, 4 a-day. 
No. 2007 
$16.95 ($1.50) 
Sears Home Health Care Catalog 
Done in the usual Sears manner, this ‘’Specialog’’ offers 
a good selection of the hardware and gadgetry more 
commonly needed for taking care of the sick and disabled 
at home. Has the usual Sears sale price specials, too. 
—JB 
Sears Home 
Health Care 
Catalog free from: 
Sears Roebuck and Co. 
Dept. 139 
925 South Homan Avenue 
Chicago, IL 60607 
(Above) Turning Knob Operator (TKO)" is ideal for 
those with weak or arthritic hands. It provides leverage 
to operate most rotating handles, knobs and controls. Its 
unique surface of 61 pegs grasps an irregular shaped 
knob such as those found on many stoves, television sets 
and water faucets. So the knob turns on or off as you 
twist the TKO™. Constructed of lightweight nylon, the 
TKO™ is durable enough to turn the most stubborn 
knobs. The handle is comfortable to hold and designed 
for a palm or finger grip. Use in right or left hand. Han- 
dle has hole at end for hanging, so your TKO™ is 
always near. 
Beetsalas) — Shpge wt.<407%2 
. secc sais 
ccs. $9.99 
¢ You can rent most of the equipment needed for medical 
self-care at home. The rules are much the same as for tool 
rental. (p. 160) 
Planetree Health 
Resource Center 
Planetree started as a layperson’s medical library. (If you 
think that’s nothing special, try getting useful health or 
specific disease information at your local library.) Now 
with more than two thousand volumes, it’s a model for 
similar efforts in other cities. This year, Planetree opened 
a Model Hospital Unit in Presbyterian Medical Center in 
San Francisco. A ward has been transformed into a 
friendly place where patients can interact with their 
families, recreating in the lounge, cooperating in treat- 
ment, and even preparing healthy meals themselves. 
Instant success! 
Planetree also offers a catalog of useful self-care hard- 
ware and books, bibliographies of readings on specific 
diseases, in-depth research packets on the disease of your 
choice, a selection of video tapes, and supporting mem- 
berships which include the newsletter Planetalk and dis- 
counts on other offerings. Their booklet, How to Start a 
People's Medical Library ($4.45 postpaid), should help 
spread the Planetree seeds. 
—JB 
Managing Incontinence by Cheryle B. 
Gartley, ed. Ottawa, IL: Jameson 
Books, 1985. $12.95 hardcover. 
Loss of bladder control is a problem that 
nobody talks about, but is so socially 
unacceptable that many people remain 
prisoners in their own homes in fear of 
having an “‘accident”’ in public. With 
over 10,000,000 Americans of all ages 
suffering from incontinence, there is 
finally a book which confronts the prob- 
lem and provides hope. The contributing 
editors are physicians, psychologists, and 
nurses who give clear explanations of 
urinary system function, coping mech- 
anisms, products and devices, surgical 
remedies, and sexual guidance. A com- 
passionate, much needed book. 
HEALTH 207 
Medical Self-Care 
Michael Castleman, Editor 
$1 5/year 
(6 issues) from: 
Medical Self-Care 
P.O. Box 1000 
Point Reyes, CA 94956 
Earscope Notoco, $21.00. 
A low-cost way to check the condition 
of ears, especially useful for small 
children with recurring ear infec- 
tions. It throws a strong beam of light 
into the ear canal and helps you deter- 
mine when you or your child needs to 
see a physician. Made of tough plastic. 
Comes with instruction booklet and 
batteries. Small animal model also 
available. 
Planetree 
Membership 
$1 5/year 
(includes subscription to 
Planetalk newsletter) 
Catalog free 
both from: 
Planetree Health 
Resource Center 
2040 Webster Street 
San Francisco, CA 94115 
