LEARNING 
378 
—Corita Kent 
The Independent 
Scholar’s 
Handbook 
Ronald Gross 
1982; 261 pp. 
$10.95 
postpaid from: 
Addison-Wesley 
Publishing Co. 
1 Jacob Way 
Reading, MA 01867 
or Whole Earth Access 
Tutorial Study 
Program 
Catalog 
$5 
information 
free 
from: 
International College 
1019 Gayley Avenue 
Los Angeles, CA 90024 
LIFELONG LEARNING 
ome rules and hints for teachers 
and students. 
RULE ONE: Find a place you trust, and 
then try trusting it for awhile. 
RULE TWO: General duties of a student — pull 
everything out of your teacher; pull everything out 
of your fellow students. 
RULE THREE: General duties of a teacher — pull 
everything out of your students. 
RULE FOUR: Consider everything an experiment. 
RULE FIVE: Be self-disciplined — this means find- 
ing someone wise or smart and choosing to follow 
them. To be disciplined is to follow in a good way. 
To be self-disciplined is to follow in a better way. 
RULE SIX: Nothing is a mistake. There’s no win 
and no fail, there’s only make. 
RULE SEVEN: The only rule is work. If you work 
it will lead to something. It’s the people who do all 
of the work all of the time who eventually catch on 
to things. 
RULE EIGHT: Don’t try to create and analyze at 
the same time. They’re different processes. 
RULE NINE: Be happy whenever you can manage 
it. Enjoy yourself. It’s lighter than you think. 
RULE TEN: “We're breaking all the rules. Even our 
own rules. And how do we do that? By leaving 
plenty of room for X quantities.” (John Cage) 
HINTS: Always be around. Come or go to 
everything. Always go to classes. Read anything 
you can get your hands on. Look at movies care- 
fully, often. Save everything — it might come in 
handy later. 
—Corita Kent 
Tutorial Study Program 
So sensible you wonder what's taken it so long to reappear. 
A system of apprenticeship, internship, to an international 
guild of tutors. For a period of time like eight months you 
live near and work with a master the likes of Anna 
Halprin, Elisabeth Mann Borghese, Ravi Shankar and 
Yehudi Menuhin. They offer B.A., M.A. and Ph.D. 
degrees. Nine month’s tuition is $4,600. 
—Stewart Brand [Suggested by Gregory Bateson] 
The Independent 
Scholar’s Handbook 
Ever talk about Plato at four in the morning in a doughnut 
shop with a well-read blue-collar stranger? That’s the 
feeling this book evokes. The author doesn’t describe the 
ways to get accreditation, academic legitimacy, or even 
intellectual power. He tells how to find out the things that 
would change your life if you took the trouble to learn 
them, how to tell other people about them, and how to 
support yourself meanwhile. The methods include repor- 
ting and cultivating experts, but mainly forming the kind 
of relationship with libraries that master chefs have with 
their food suppliers. The book is full of anecdotes about 
independent researchers like Eric Hoffer that make you 
want to follow up everything they ever wrote; but more 
important, it’s full of solid advice, the kind that will be 
news even to people who have pursued this particular 
path with a heart for years. This Catalog’s best con- 
tributors always seem to work this way. | —Art Kleiner 
® 
As your interests, feelings, curiosity, enthusiasm, and 
concerns begin to converge on a particular topic, it will 
be well to draft, purely for your own use at first, a brief 
statement of your plans. | have never known an inde- 
pendent scholar who did not discover, at the end of an 
hour or two of work on such a one-page statement, that 
he or she had sharper goals. 
By making the process of browsing a bit more self-conscious, 
you can conduct your own informal ‘‘reconnaissance’’ of 
the terrain of learning. All you have to do is follow these 
three rules: 
1. Pick the best places. 
2. Keep moving. 
3. Keep a list. 
Eric Hoffer said: Listen, suppose you come to San Francisco 
looking for a person whose address you don’t know. You 
can trace him by research. You look in the telephone 
directory, you go to City Hall; if he’s a workman, you go 
to the unions; if he’s a doctor, you go to the medical 
associations, and so on. This is not my way! My way is to 
stand on the corner of Powell and Market and wait for 
him to come by. And if you have all the time in the world 
and you are interested in the passing scene, this is as 
good a way as any; and if you don’t meet him, you are 
going to meet someone else. That’s how | do research. | 
go to the library, | pick up the things that interest me, | 
use whatever comes my way. And | believe that if you 
have a good theory, the things you need will come your 
way. You'll be lucky. You know what Pasteur said: 
Chance favors the prepared mind. 
The Lifetime Reading Plan 
Will reading the best works of Plato, Marcus Aurelius, 
Chaucer, Shaw, Dickens, Voltaire, Thoreau, Freud, 
Nabokov, Borges, efc., make you a better person? 
Yes. 
Will this book help you DO IT? Also yes. The selection is 
fine, the I-page introductions to each author by Fadiman 
are inviting, not daunting. 
—Stewart Brand 
The Lifetime 
($16.95 postpaid) from: 
Reading Plan 
Harper and Row 
Clifton Fadiman 
2350 Virginia Avenue 
1960, 1978; 256 pp 
Hagerstown, MD 21740 
$15.45 
or Whole Earth Access 
The books here discussed may take you fifty years to 
finish. They can of course be read in a much shorter 
time. The point is that they are intended to occupy an 
important part of a whole life, no matter what your pre- 
sent age may be. Many of them happen to be more 
entertaining than the latest best-seller. Still, it is not on 
the entertainment level that they are most profitably 
read. What they offer is of larger dimensions. It is rather 
like what is offered by loving and marrying, having and 
rearing children, carving out a career, creating a home. 
They can be a major experience, a source of continuous 
internal growth. Hence the word Lifetime. These authors 
are life companions. Once part of you, they work in and 
on and with you until you die. They should not be read 
in a hurry, any more than friends are made in a hurry. 
