To answer this question, 
222 
HEALTH 
ask yourself the follow- 
ing questions and answer 
them as honestly as 
you can. 
16. 
17. 
20. 
Do you lose time 
from work due 
to drinking? 
Is drinking making 
your home life 
unhappy? 
Do you drink 
because you are shy 
with other people? 
Is drinking affecting 
your reputation? 
Have you ever felt 
remorse after 
drinking? 
Have you gotten 
into financial dif- 
ficulties as a result 
of drinking? 
Do you turn to lower 
companions and an 
inferior environment 
when drinking? 
Does your drinking 
make you careless 
of your family’s 
welfare? 
Has your ambition 
decreased since 
drinking? 
. Do you crave a 
drink at a definite 
time daily? 
- Do you want a drink 
the next morning? 
. Does drinking cause 
you to have difficulty 
in sleeping? 
- Has your efficiency 
decreased since 
drinking? 
. Is drinking jeopar- 
dizing your job 
or business? 
- Do you drink to 
escape from worries 
or troubles? 
Do you drink alone? 
Have you ever had 
a complete loss of 
memory as a result 
of drinking? 
. Has your physician 
ever treated you 
for drinking? 
. Do you drink to 
build up your self- 
confidence? 
Have you ever been 
to a hospital or in- 
stitution on account 
of drinking? 
ENDING ADDICTIONS 
20 Questions 
Are You An Alcoholic? * 
BOUT FIVE YEARS BEFORE I made it to AA, I answered 14 of those 
questions yes. Because I didn’t relate drinking to the damage that 
was already underway, I decided the test must be bullshit. Denial, 
they tell me, is characteristic of alcoholics. 
I had a great life. I didn’t enjoy it much. I had reasons to drink. (Only alcoholics need reasons to drink, 
they tell me.) I drank because everyone else did. I drank because I was sensitive. 
I was depressed, hung over, and incapacitated a lot. (Not surprising, considering that alcohol is a depressant, 
and toxic.) After another couple of 
years of prodigious daily drinking, 
I began to think that I might have 
a drinking problem after all. 
I sure wished I could drink less. I rarely intended 
\ # 
to get drunk, but I generally did, and expended a 
lot of energy on trying to seem sober. After a few more years of this miserable futility, I figured I was a 
moral failure, unable to stop hurting those I cared for — and myself — so badly; and, by no coincidence, 
unable to control my drinking. Things had got hopeless enough for me to admit my alcoholism. It was ob- 
vious that I couldn’t quit drinking by myself, and obvious that if I continued to drink my health, my psyche 
and my life were guaranteed to deteriorate until I died. 
L 
without alcohol had become inconceivable, but 
For some reason, Ann Landers’ good advice probably, I believed that Alcoholics Anonymous was how to 
quit drinking. (Most cities of any size list AA in their telephone directories, and AA’s General Service Office, 
Box 459, Grand Central Station, New York, NY 10163, will help alcoholics in remoter places by mail.) So 
I called Alcoholics Anonymous, and found that there was a meeting in my neighborhood that night. I went. 
That was six years ago. With the help of AA, I haven’t taken a drink since. Because I consider my sobriety 
to be a daily reprieve from a deadly progression, I go to as many AA meetings as I can every week, and 
I just don’t drink between meetings no matter what. 
“Forever non-professional,” AA is pure mutual aid. AA meetings are endlessly 
interesting and usually funny. Something very special comes out of our discussion 
of the homely business of facing life without booze. 
N this country, seven out of ten people drink. One out of ten is an alcoholic, just like me. 
We don’t opt to be alcoholic any more than others opt to be colorblind. Alcoholism’s the 
existential card we’re dealt. We have to play it, one way or another. I tried drinking for fifteen 
years, and sobriety for six-and-some. I like sobriety better. If, like me, you passed that twenty questions test, 
I hope you'll save yourself a lot of time and trouble and find the help you need to deal with your drinking 
problem today. 
The general idea is to choose life. 
—A member of Alcoholics Anonymous 
“Alcoholics Anonymous is a fellowship of men and women who share their experience, strength, and hope 
with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism. 
The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. 
There are no dues or fees for AA membership; we are self-supporting through our own contributions. 
AA is not allied with any sect, denomination, politics, organization or institution; does not wish to engage 
in any controversy, neither endorses nor opposes any cause. Our primary purpose is to stay sober and help 
other alcoholics to achieve sobriety.” 
—Copyright by the AA Grapevine, Inc. Reprinted by permission of Alcoholics Anonymous World Services, Inc. 
a 
I A 
CT 
LL 
IR 
If you have answered YES to any one of the questions, 
there is a definite warning that you may be an alcoholic. 
Check your telephone book for an AA listing. 
Or write: 
If you have answered YES to any two, the chances are 
Gndvouseancieeree 
AA World Services, Inc., P. O. Box 459, Grand 
Central Station, New York, NY 10163. 
If you have answered YES to three or more, you are 
definitely an alcoholic. 
AA will send introductory pamphlets and a catalog 
* Reprinted with permission of AA World Services, Inc. 
and order form. All free. 
