WOMEN’S POLITICS 
COMMUNITY 99 
Dreaming the Dark 
Starhawk is a witch, and Dreaming the Dark is a thought- 
ful exposition of paganism — the timeless and eternally 
new “old religion,’’ witchcraft, which was the religious 
practice of men and women before god was extricated 
from immanence, unsurprisingly becoming a patriarch in 
the process. The politics of male sky-god religion parallel 
the politics of female oppression, which is why it is no 
coincidence that a lot of good churchmen once tortured 
hundreds of wise women (and men) to death in order to 
confirm spirituality as the franchise of a masculine elite. In 
spite of all that, magic never died. Dreaming the Dark is 
convincing propaganda against hierarchy of any sort, 
religious or temporal, and for high anarchy. It’s also 
a straightforward introduction to the philosophy and 
practice of magic. 
Starhawk’s magic is a spiritual path, a tried-and-true 
method of nonegocentric self-realization and community 
building; a practice of awakening and acknowledging the 
divine power immanent within each of us, that awakening 
not mediated by hierarchy, that power not apart from 
human beings. 
Starhawk synthesizes insights from psychology, sociology, 
history, and religion, and in her appendix on the witch- 
burning times of the ‘Renaissance’ achieves brilliance 
without resort to detailing the horrors of that era. Dream- 
ing the Dark is the most effective argument I’ve seen that 
the personal is the political. Hence it points to the way of 
integrity. On that way, we must dream, not deny, the dark 
in life, the dark in us, and hallow the earthly, lifegiving 
powers of sex and gender. If we continue fo alienate and 
project those parts of our being, they will turn on us 
and we will perish, shattered. 
The how of dreaming the dark is simple, interesting, and 
valuable. During her ten years in a coven, and through her 
work as a therapist and political activist, Starhawk has 
developed an organic sense of group and individual 
psychodynamics. She stresses our mortal need for com- 
munity, offering what others might term a systems theory 
or family therapy approach to social change. She relates 
her understanding in good instruction on fostering the life 
and work of any group, sharing her experiences in therapy, 
in the craft, and in jail for her protest, with unstinting self- 
honesty. Persons of all genders, religions, and politics 
interested in healing self or planet would do well to avail 
themselves of this extraordinary text. 
—Stephanie Mills 
[Suggested by Evy Gershon] 
We must demand that our politics serve our sexuality. Too 
often, we have asked sexuality to serve politics instead. 
Ironically, the same movements that have criticized sexual 
repression and bourgeois morality have themselves too 
often tried to mold their sexual feeling to serve the current 
political theory. This tradition includes nineteenth century 
revolutionary ascetism, the New Left’s demand that women 
practice free love (meaning sex without involvement), the 
fear of lesbianism in the early women’s movement, and 
the mandatory separatist line taken by some in the later 
women’s movement. Too many generations have asked: 
What do my politics tell me | should feel? The better 
question is: What do |, at my root, at my core, desire? 
The Second Stage 
The Second Stage continues the obdurately fair appraisal 
of the relationship between the sexes begun twenty years 
ago in The Feminine Mystique. Fair in that Betty Friedan 
doesn’t let women off the hook. She foresees a positive 
synthesis emerging from the women’s movement and pro- 
claims that it is not for women only. So she doesn’t exempt 
men from the opportunity to change, either. 
There’s a lot to quibble with in Friedan — she’s straight, 
she has odd blind spots around lesbianism, race, culture, 
and ecology, and she extrapolates from the present in a 
rather linear way. She is, however, aware of the extent to 
which the megainstitutions like the State and Capitalism 
have gone haywire, and that makes for a fairly mean- 
ingful larger context. 
Attitudes aside, though, the valuable thing about Friedan 
is that she exerts herself and derives her conclusions and 
prescriptions from reality: she reports research on the 
positive psychological (and physical!) consequences of 
feminism; she discusses surveys in which women recount 
their experience and opinions of their changing working 
and parenting arrangements. In addition to recounting 
other peoples’ discoveries, Friedan has traveled widely 
and observantly and made some of her own. Her account 
of what's going on at West Point now that women are 
being admitted is an arresting example. 
The Second Stage, if not a completely visionary book, is 
an essential one. It is both forward-looking and cautionary. 
Assessing the moment and the future, Friedan points out 
that the improved access to opportunity enjoyed by today’s 
career women (many of whom disclaim feminism) was 
hard-won by feminists a decade ago, and is now jeo- 
pardized by reactionaries. It never hurts to be reminded 
that eternal vigilance is the price of liberty. 
—Stephanie Mills 
e@ 
Do they really want to force women to have more children? 
Do they really want to outlaw abortion? Or do they 
want to keep pushing it as a diversionary issue, twisting 
and manipulating the agonizing conflicts people can’t 
help facing now, about the costs and problems of having 
children, and their own values of life — diverting the 
rage away from those who profiteer from inflation, with 
sexual, ‘‘moral’’ red herrings? But the power of their 
campaign, and the rage they are able to divert against 
those who speak openly and honestly about the choices 
all must make now, comes, at least in part, from the pain 
and the deep insult to their human core that people may 
be truly experiencing as they are manipulated deeper 
and deeper into the depersonalizing material rat race, 
losing control of their lives. The very rhetoric of the first 
stage ‘pro-abortion’ campaign exacerbated or played 
into that rage. 
Heresies 
Produced by a collective, each issue of Heresies is a 
special: Feminism and Ecology, Third World Women, 
Women Working Together, and Sexuality have been among 
their subjects. Some of the material is a grind — theo- 
retical, rhetorical stuff on feminism as a subject. Some of 
it is revelatory, especially that dealing with feminism as a 
practice or perspective. Everything they publish has con- 
sequence, and the art they include is striking — images 
that hit home. 
There are scores of excellent feminist magazines, from 
stately small-press literary journals to scholarly quarterlies 
to outraged tabloids to the rangier, avant-garde offering 
of Heresies. Its inclusion here as the sole representative of 
all that rich cultural activity 
is not to anoint it as the best 
of the lot (although it is very 
good), but to advance a per- 
sonal favorite as exemplary 
of a whole realm of riches. 
| suggest you prowl for a 
personal favorite, too. 
—Stephanie Mills 
Tenth 
Anna { 
Dreaming the Dark 
(Magic, Sex and Politics) 
Starhawk 
1982; 242 pp. 
$9.95 
($11.95 postpaid) from: 
Beacon Press 
25 Beacon Street 
Boston, MA 02108 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Second Stage 
Betty Friedan 
1981; 346 pp. 
$8.95 
postpaid from: 
Simon & Schuster 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
or Whole Earth Access 
Heresies 
Heresies Collective, Editors 
$1 5/2 years 
(4 issues) from: 
Heresies 
P. O. Box 1306 
Canal Street Station 
New York, NY 10013 
