2? LEARNING 
38 
KNOWLEDGE 
How to learn things: A handy tip 
Super-Learning 
Sheila Ostrander, 
Lynn Schroeder and 
Nancy Ostrander 
1985; 342 pp. 
$4.50 
($5.25 postpaid) from: 
Delacorte Press 
1 Dag Hammarskjold Plaza 
245 East 47th Street 
New York, NY 10017 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Memory Book 
Harry Lorayne and 
Jerry Lucas 
1974; 206 pp. 
$3.95 
($4.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
Order Department 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
Rules of Thumb 
Tom Parker 
1983; 148 pp. 
$5.70 
($6.70 postpaid) from: 
Houghton Mifflin Co. 
Mail Order Dept. 
Wayside Road 
Burlington, MA 01803 
or Whole Earth Access 
If you're starting to learn about a field that you know nothing about, go to the children’s library and get some fifth, 
sixth, seventh grade books about it before you go into grownup books. Basic books for grownups tend to be aimed at 
college freshmen taking required courses — and everybody knows that they’re supposed to suffer, including the people 
who write the books. Basic books for kids are aimed at kids browsing in libraries who don’t have to be there and could 
leave anytime. The books have colors and pictures and a will to sell the subject; the good ones assume you know 
nothing without being condescending. You can get some vocabulary and feel for the shape of the subject before you 
get into the stuck-up real books. Kids’ books can also help you if you are one of those freshmen in one of those 
required courses. 
—Anne Herbert 
Super-Learning 
A gee-whiz tour through some of the most innovative 
methods for accelerated learning becoming available, 
including suggestology. The data supports the author's 
contention that it is possible for normal people to learn 
mental and physical skills five to ten times faster, with 
better retention and with less effort using the techniques 
described. 
Lots of exercises, lots of cheery confidence. Feels like 
one of the steps to overcoming our determination to main- 
tain an educational system geared to work as slowly as 
possible. Read it and upgrade the schools in your town. 
—Jim Fadiman 
r 
As the class members shuffled through pages of material, 
the teacher started reading French phrases in different 
intonations. Then, stately classical music began in the 
background. The fifteen men and women leaned back, 
closed their eyes, and embarked on developing hyper- 
mnesia, more easily called supermemory. The teacher 
kept reciting. Sometimes her voice was businesslike as 
if ordering work to be done, sometimes it sounded soft, 
whispering, then unexpectedly hard and commanding. 
Shadows began to darken in the room, it was sunset, yet 
the teacher kept on, repeating in a special rhythm French 
words, idioms, translations. Finally, she stopped. They 
weren't through yet; they still had to take a test. At least 
the class members weren't as keyed up. Somehow during 
the session their anxiety had been smoothed, the usual 
kinks relaxed. But they still didn’t hold much hope for 
decent test scores. 
Finally the teacher told them, ‘The class average is 
ninety-seven percent. You learned one thousand words 
in a day!’ 
The Memory Book 
| almost forgot to mention this compact paperback which 
concisely outlines methods to improve your recall. They 
truly work. My dad taught me these when | was a kid 
and | still rely on them. At first the methods seem to be 
gimmicky, but soon become habit. One of the authors is 
the guy who memorizes phone book listings as a stunt on 
late night talk shows. The techniques are well proven (a 
couple are thousands of years old) and will benefit any- 
one. Imagine how much more efficient you'd be if your 
memory was just five percent better, and how much 
easier your life would be if everyone else’s improved. 
—Kevin Kelly 
Here’s a basic memory rule: You Can Remember Any 
New Piece of Information if It Is Associated to Something 
You Already Know or Remember. 
. 
. 
. 
Very few people can easily remember the shape of 
Russia, or Greece, or any other country — except Italy, 
that is. That’s because most people have been told, or 
have read, that Italy’s shaped like a boot. There’s that 
rule again — the shape of a boot was the something 
already known, and the shape of Italy could not be 
forgotten once that association was made. 
As you reach for the phone, you place the pencil behind 
your ear, or in your hair. The phone call is finished — 
that took only a few minutes — but now you waste time 
searching for the pencil that’s perched behind your ear. 
Would you like to avoid that aggravation? All right, 
then; the next time the phone rings and you start to 
place the pencil behind your ear, make a fast mental pic- 
ture in your mind. Actually ‘‘see’’ the pencil going into 
your ear — all the way. 
The idea may make you shudder, but when you think of 
that pencil, you'll know where it is. That silly association 
of seeing the pencil go into your ear forced you to think 
of two things in a fraction of a second: 1) the pencil, and 
2) where you were putting it. Problem solved! 
Rules of Thumb 
Accumulated knowledge, dehydrated for storage. Author- 
editor-illustrator Tom Parker collected this bunch from his 
readers. It’s a varied lot, presented in no particular order, 
but indexed by subject. In an earlier day, many of these 
would have been part of an oral tradition passed down 
by elders and storytellers. 
—JB 
Erecting a telephone pole: One fifth of the length of a 
telephone pole should be planted in the ground. —Ron 
Bean, mechanics of materials student, Madison, Wisconsin. 
@ 
Digging a grave: When digging a grave by hand, haul 
away seventeen wheelbarrow loads of dirt and pile the 
rest by the hole. You will have just the right amount to 
backfill. —Randall Lacey, wind-power engineer. 
Choosing a woodstove: If you are trying to decide what 
size woodstove you need you can start by figuring 2.5 
cubic feet of firebox per 1000 square feet of living space. 
—Dan Hoffman, city council alderman. 
Ann Landers’ pencil test: To determine whether you need 
to wear a bra, place a pencil under your breast. If the 
pencil falls to the floor, you don’t need to wear a bra; if 
it stays, you need one. —Ann Landers, advice columnist. 
IS EE BL 
ATS I ERR EE TSE DES AE I LE OE IIE TY EE 
IT EGE TITS 
* Keep track as the limits of human performance — silly and 
serious — are explored. 
Guinness Book of World Records: Norris McWhirter, 1986; 
709 pp. $4.50 ($6 postpaid) from Bantam Books, 414 East 
Golf Road, Des Plaines, IL 60016. 
— 
