Baby Supplies 
You really don’t need as much 
paraphernalia for a new baby as 
some would make you think. Here 
are the only things | have found real- 
ly necessary with four babies: Four 
or five dozen 100 percent cotton 
diapers. Can be found easily at local 
department stores. Prefolded Curity 
diapers are my favorite. Disposable 
diapers are expensive, ecologically 
unsound, and rough and uncomfor- 
table on baby’s skin; natual fiber cot- 
ton or wool diaper covers (3 or 4 
pair). They’re cool and breathable 
for baby’s skin. Try Happy Baby Bunz; babies love 100 
percent cotton, versatile, long-wearing clothing. Check 
used clothing stores and catalogs, but Hanna Anderson 
and Biobottoms are a sure bet; a Snugli. My second child 
needed a lot of physical contact and he practically lived 
in his Snugli baby carrier for his first six months. Being 
able to put him happily in the Snugli meant that | could 
do some work around the house while he slept peacefully — 
a plus for us both. 
—Peggy O’Mara McMahon 
The Affordable Baby 
Having a baby costs money. Some expenses are inevitable 
(like diapers). Others are optional. What you spend 
depends on knowing what your choices are and how to 
shop around. Bundy provides a complete consumer guide 
to costs and comparisons for parents-to-be, from health 
care (what does yours cover?) to writing a will. She also 
tells you the advantages and disadvantages of various 
options (disposable diapers are convenient but costly; 
cloth are economical but time-consuming) that allow you 
to make decisions based on your own values, needs, and 
lifestyle. A good book to get if you’re even thinking about 
having a baby. 
—Cindy Craig 
® 
How to Care for Cloth Diapers 
This section could equally be titled “‘disadvantages of 
cloth diapers.’’ Yes, cloth diapers will save you money — 
some estimates are savings of $800 or more over two 
and a half years of diapering — but they cost time and 
effort. If you’re considering cloth, be sure you know 
what's involved in caring for them. 
Diaper stains are difficult to remove, so to help prevent 
permanent staining, soiled diapers must be rinsed in the 
toilet as soon as they're taken off. Then they must be 
wrung out and put in a pail containing water with a 
teaspoonful of Borax to deodorize and kill ammonia- 
producing bacteria. Before laundering, the water must 
be wrung out. Diapers must be washed within a day or 
two of being soiled and they must be washed separately 
from the rest of the laundry. Wash them in a good- 
quality detergent, using the hottest cycle on your 
washing machine. As detergent residue can cause diaper 
rash, it’s best to put diapers through two rinse cycles. 
Diapers must be thoroughly dried — in the sun is best. 
Then they must be folded and stored. 
® The foibles of baby-having and -raising are satirized with 
rare wit and exceedingly funny drawings. 
Babies and Other Hazards of Sex: Dave Barry, 1984; 96 
pp. $4.95 postpaid from Rodale Press Inc., 33 East Minor 
Street, Emmaus, PA 18049 (or Whole Earth Access). 
LEARNING 
BABIES 357 
Cotton Coverups. 
For spring our little hooded model 
comes in bright new colors and the 
ever popular white. Each has the 
drawstring hem, 4 button front and 
ribbed cuffs. You will find lots of 
uses for this little snuggler. 
Imported. 
No. 2202 Crayon yellow and white. 
No. 2205 Pure, almost formal white. 
No. 2200 Just right red with white. 
No. 2231 Just right red/Swedish blue. 
70 cm. 28” 
\ 
: 
Fits 
Snugli baby carrier. 
newbom 
to11/2 
year. 
—Biobottoms 
Nikky Diaper Covers: $6.50-10.75. Information free from 
Happy Baby Bunz, P. O. Box 745, Carmichael, CA 95609. 
Hanna Anderson: Catalog $2 from Hanna Anderson, 422 
Northwest 8th, Portland, OR 97209. 
Biobottoms: Catalog free from Biobottoms, P. O. Box 1060, 
Petaluma, CA 94953. 
Snugli Baby Carrier: $22-60. Brochure and dealer list free 
from Snugli, Inc., 12980 West Cedar Drive, Lakewood, CO 
80228-1903. 
—Hanna Anderson 
The Family Bed 
Just mention the family bed concept and you encourage 
heated discussion. Even in a society such as ours where 
co-family sleeping is discouraged strongly, large numbers 
of people find that it beautifully fulfills their parenting 
needs. Tine Thevenin contends that babies need to sleep 
with their parents, that this arrangement assures the 
type of physical closeness so crucial to bonding and 
human development. 
As a veteran of twelve years of various arrangements of 
co-family sleeping, | have suggested this book to many 
new parents and every one has thanked me profusely. 
The Affordable 
Even if you have not contemplated the family bed, or 
you fear it will ruin your sex life, spoil your children, 
Baby 
and scandalize your relatives, you too deserve to gain a 
Darcie Bundy 
perspective on nighttime parenting and broaden your 
1985; 289 pp. 
understanding of what really is ‘‘normal.”’ 
$6 95 
=P 
O’Mara 
McMah 
eggy 
ve 
sae ae 
($8.45 postpaid) from: 
Harper and Row 
2350 Virginia Avenue 
Hagerstown, MD 21740 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Family Bed 
Tine Thevenin 
1976; 195 pp. 
$9.95 
($10.95 postpaid) from: 
Tine Thevenin 
P. O. Box 16004 
Minneapolis, MN 55416 
or Whole Earth Access 
If we could do it all over again, we would buy a king-size 
bed at the time of our marriage. 
—Mother, St. Paul, MN 
