CRAFT 
TOOLS 
156 
Shopsmith 
| 500 (approx.) 
Information free from: 
Shopsmith, Inc. 
6640 Poe Avenue 
Dayton, OH 45414 
Ryobi Planer 
About 
$400 (on sale) 
Information free from: 
Ryobi America Corp. 
1158 Tower Lane 
Bensenville, IL 60106 
Shopsmith 
You’ll hear snorts of derision when you mention Shopsmith 
to a professional woodworker. Next, you can expect nasty 
comments pertaining to jack-of-all-trades-master-of-none, 
lightweight, and so forth. While it is true that this machine 
is not well suited for work with heavy structural lumber, 
it'll easily handle most anything a home craftsperson will 
ask it to do. It is at one time (with a bit of fiddling) a drill 
press, lathe, table saw, sander, and boring machine. With 
attachments it can do more, but it won’t take up more 
space. And that’s the great advantage of the Shopsmith: 
it’s not an awful lot bigger than an ironing board. You 
can have a home shop in an apartment, condo, mobile 
home, boat, or anywhere else a whole roomful of power 
tools won't fit. Unlike imported imitations, Shopsmith is 
backed by a solid dealer network and what amounts to a 
cult of users. Local classified ads often have them used 
at substantial savings. 
—JB 
Ryobi 10’’ Planer 
At last, a thickness planer that can be carried to the job 
site by one worker — it only weighs 58 pounds. It'll handle 
wood up to five inches thick and ten inches wide, taking 
off an eighth of an inch at a time under suitable conditions. 
The price is right too: less than $400, on sale. 
6 
Cutawil 
This relatively unknown tool can be found in virtually 
every display and exhibit shop. It’s used to make the 
layers of those architectural landscape contour models, to 
cut out fancy lettering, and to make slick prototypes of 
displays that will later be cut out on production machinery. 
The thing is a sort of sabersaw combined with a wooa- 
pecker. It cuts with a tiny chisel or sawblade, leaving a 
flawless machined edge. The steering is so accurate that 
it is feasible to cut lacework out of Masonite, Formica, thin 
metal, or any other thin, cuttable sheet material. It’s unique; 
no other tool can match its capabilities. I’ve used one a 
lot. Used ones can sometimes be found at less cost. —JB 
Cutawl 
$5 50 (approx.) 
Information free from: 
Blackstone Industries 
Route 6 
Bethel, CT 06801 
I 
TS 
A 
ELE | 
OO SO 
ELT LE SETI NPL, LETC TTI 
¢ Whole Earth Access (p. 245) has good tool selection 
and prices. 
e Every shop should have a first aid kit. See our 
recommendations on p. 214. 
