NOMADICS 
264 BICYCLES 
| 
The All New 
Complete Book 
of Bicycling 
Eugene A. Sloane 
1980; 736 pp. 
$12.95 
postpaid from: 
Simon and Schuster 
Attn.: Mail Order Dept. 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
Bicycle Guide 
Theodore Costantino, 
Editor 
$1 O/year 
(9 issues) from: 
Bicycle Guide 
P. ©; Box 5325 
Boulder, CO 80322 
Modolo’s Kronotech 
is built up from two 
shells of hot-cast 
carbon fiber rein- 
forced by honeycomb 
composite. Domenico 
Modolo’s design 
features hydraulic 
brakes, a built-in 
computer, and an 
estimated weight of 
18.7 pounds. Believe 
it or not, production 
is in the works. 
—Bicycle Guide 
The All Ne 
Complete Book of Bicycling 
Well, it’s not quite all new, but it is extensively updated 
from the previous (and good) editions. This isn’t just a 
repair book — virtually everything likely to affect bike 
and rider is covered. It even gets into elementary frame 
straightening and painting. If you’re going to have just 
one bike book around to help, this one is it. 
—JB 
® 
Various tests have been made pedaling with and without 
Bicycle Guide 
It has a masthead that reads like a Who’s Who of bi- 
cycling. It has articles covering a wide variety of bicycling 
matters — not just racing and body building. The writing 
has a personal tone to if. 
—JB 
[Suggested by Eli Rubin] 
The Browning Automatic Transmission will soon be avail- 
able for mountain bikes. The firearms maker recently 
showed a triple chainwheel (28, 38, 48 tooth) version of 
their system. It uses multiple front chainwheels like a 
derailleur system, but instead of a derailleur shoving the 
chain sideways, the chainwheels hinge to divert it, much 
like a railroad switch. Since 
the system is constantly en- 
gaged, you are actually in 
two gears at one time when 
you shift, so the chain can 
carry a full load at all times. 
Our man John Schubert com- 
ments that the Browning shifts 
effortlessly even under heavy 
load. A two-speed BMX ver- 
sion is currently available, 
and the mountain bike version 
should be out in 1986. Contact 
Browning at 105 West 2950 
South, Salt Lake City, Utah 
84115 for more details. 
The Browning Automatic 
Transmission. 
ONG STAGNATED by a tradition of being traditional, bicycle designers and makers have awakened 
at last. The results are encouraging: new ideas are being tried, excellent steeds can now be had for 
a reasonable price, and bikes in general have become more competent. About time. 
—JB 
se
toe straps and toe clips. Most of the test results show 
that with toe clips and straps you increase pedalling effi- 
ciency about 40 percent. My own experience bears this 
out. But just because you have toe clips and straps, and 
even cleats on your shoes (which you must have to achieve 
this added efficiency) you are by no means guaranteed 
this improved efficiency. Clips and straps alone, even 
with cleats, will do little for you unless you learn to pedal 
correctly, so that you pull up with one foot as you press 
down with the other. 
Bikes by Mail 
The best place to buy a bicycle is at your local dealer 
where a good fit can be assured. But if you know what you 
want, buying by mail will likely save you money — some- 
times lots. Here are three outfitters we’ve come fo trust: 
Bike Nashbar ¢ Performance Bicycle Shop 
Both these places stock an astounding variety of bicycles 
and associated gear, but not necessarily the same brands. 
I‘d look at both catalogs. Our experience with their mail- 
order service has been good. 
Bike Nashbar: Quarterly catalog $2; P. O. Box 290, 
Middletown, OH 44442. 
Performance Bicycle Shop: Catalog free; 404 East Main 
Street, Carrboro, NC 27510. 
Pt. Reyes Bikes 
This store is right in the heart of where the Mountain Bike 
(All-Terrain Bicycle or ATB) was invented. Their expertise 
is the expertise of many of the innovators of the breed 
who still live and work in the area. They stock a wide 
selection, including some strange and wondertul items not 
found elsewhere. 
—JB 
Pt. Reyes Bikes: Catalog free; P. O. Box 362, Pt. Reyes 
Station, CA 94956. 
¢ The physical fitness part of bicycling, training for racing, 
and triathlons is covered on p. 241. 
