———— 
OR THOSE WHO’VE NEVER TRIED IT, flying may seem one of those unreachables that only 
“other people” do. Hogplop! The idea of learning to fly may seem bigger than your ability, but it’s 
a self-imposed limitation. The truth is that most folks who drive a car could learn to fly a plane. 
Learning to fly is an excellent opportunity to take charge of your own life and to acquire a skill 
that’s enjoyable and practical. From the air, the endless drudgery of highway driving changes to an amazing, 
mile-high view of Nature’s creation. And you get to your destination in half the time. 
Altho’ the sky, like the sea and the mountains, doesn’t come easy, mastering flight gives a reward that equals 
the challenge. Where does one begin? The most likely spot is your local airport. Check out the dealers of- 
fering flight instruction, and gamble some dollars on a single flying lesson. The key factor is deciding to 
do it. If you stay with it, you’ll end up with a private pilot’s license after logging some 50+ hours and 
leaving at least $2,000 behind. 
—Dick Fugett 
The Aviation Consumer Used Aircraft Guide 
When | consider how much learning went into this book, 
not to mention parts and labor, I’m staggered as well as 
gratified that it wasn’t me who had fo pay the bills for 
all the experience. 
The amount of information is incredible, and far surpasses 
those glossy, surface-level summaries of factory 
specs and marketing department photos that are normally 
passed off as ‘The Compleat Airplane Review.’’ Aviation 
Consumer tells that happy stuff, but also gets down to the 
guts of the matter and will as soon produce a scoop on 
Bonanza airframe failures as go into detail regarding 
Cessna Cardinal RG landing gear problems. Everything is 
culled from somebody’s real flying experience, and by 
the time you've finished reading the five-page rap on 
each of 47 airplanes, from J-3 Cub to Citation jet, you'll 
be closer to understanding the machines than many of 
the owners are. 
—Dick Fugett 
< Optional cargo pod increases luggage capacity but cuts 
speed of Cessna 185. 
Trade-A-Plane « Aviation Consumer 
There may come a time when one of those flying machines 
is yours, and when you finally own the sky you’ll meet 
many of the realities of flight. You won’t need help with 
the fun ones, but there are harsh realities too, based on 
the universal principle about free lunches. You'll run into 
them when that scratchy old radio packs up and dies, 
and the guy in the shop starts quoting replacement prices, 
or when your mechanic strokes his chin and calmly an- 
nounces that it’s time to major your engine, and you faint. 
The Aviation 
Consumer 
Richard B. Weeghman, 
Editor 
$60\year 
(24 issues) from: 
The Aviation Consumer 
Subscriptions 
P.O. Box 972 
Farmingdale, NY 11737 
EF Se PRA 
SI 
EEE 
EE 
SEER IID 
e Best would-be pilot’s book learning. 
The Student Pilot's Flight Manual: William K. Kershner, 
1979; 281 pp. $17.95 ($19.45 postpaid) from lowa State 
University Press, 2121 South State Avenue, Ames, |A 50010 
(or Whole Earth Access). 
Limited assistance is available. First of all there’s our old 
friend Trade-A-Plane: in addition to all the used aircraft 
they have good listings on services, as well as equipment, 
both discounted and used. There’s also a relatively unknown 
magazine called The Aviation Consumer. It is to pilots 
what Consumer Reports is to the rest of the world. They 
evaluate products, conduct reader surveys to find out the 
owners’ opinions, and have used airplane guides that 
range from Cubs fo jets. Since they carry no advertising 
they are able to step on a lot of toes that other publica- 
tions avoid. If you have any major expenses coming up, 
this little journal could save you a bundle. 
If $60 sounds stiff for a magazine, wait till you get that 
bill for the engine overhaul. 
—Dick Fugett 
Cessna Skyhawk, the universal Everyman’s airplane, reigns 
as the safest of the four-seaters. Like the 150, it has low 
landing speed, gentle stall, strut-braced wing and simple 
fuel system. 
—Aviation Consumer 
GENERAL AV 
NOMADICS 
IATION 291 
The Aviation 
Consumer Used 
Aircraft Guide 
Richard B. Weeghman, 
Editor 
1985; 279 pp. 
$21.95 
postpaid from: 
The Aviation Consumer 
(Books) 
1111 East Putnam Avenue 
Riverside, CT 06878 
Trade-A-Plane 
$1 0/6 months 
(18 issues) from: 
Trade-A-Plane 
Subscriptions 
Box 929 
Crossville, TN 38555 
~ ECONOMICAL 
AIRPLANE HANGAR: 
Designed to withstand 150 mph wind 
Widths 
from 26’ to 80’ - Unlimited length 
49x40 - $3800 
— 
62x60 - $7980 
1-800-824-7888 ext. 884 
or 
317-849-2246 
—Trade-A-Plane 
