286 
The Handbook 
of Sailing 
Bob Bond 
1980; 352 pp. 
$22.50 
($23.50 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
Order Dept. 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
Chapman Piloting 
Elbert S. Maloney 
1985; 624 pp. 
$24.50 
($26 postpaid) from: 
William Morrow 
Publishing Company 
6 Henderson Drive 
West Caldwell, NJ 07006 
or Whole Earth Access 
Sailing ona 
Micro-Budget 
Larry Brown 
1984; 163 pp. 
$1 4.95 postpaid from: 
Simon and Schuster 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
or Whole Earth Access 
NOMADICS 
SAILING 
OATS, I’M 
abundantly 
7 | convinced, are 
better for 
building competence and 
mental health than any 
other toy — skis, airplanes, 
: 
performance cars, or inter- 
—Chapman 
active graphic computers. It has something to do with operating on the wildly various interface between the 
two fluids, water and air. It takes balance — whether you’re in a kayak or a 75-foot sailboat — and real 
or threatened dunkings drive the lessons of balance into your fibre. 
And beyond that, if they’re lived with, boats teach aesthetics. They can’t help it. 
The Handbook of Sailing 
“This is the hull’’ is where the instruction starts; utterly 
Level One. But you won't stay there long, because it goes 
on to include the underlying logic of the moves, encour- 
aging you to make them part of your thought process. 
Basic sailing technique is illustrated with small open boats 
(including catamarans) of the sort most often used by 
learners. The drawings and photographs are exceptionally 
good, detailed enough to show such fine points as pre- 
ferred body English. More advanced technique is presented 
applied to ocean-going craft. Comprehensive and free of 
jargon, the information is easily available to the most lub- 
berly of landlubbers. 
| —JB [Suggested by John Hall] 
Now and again, as the result of 
a capsize, the crew gets trapped 
either under the sail or in the 
inverted hull. Neither situation 
is dangerous although it can be 
alarming if you do not know 
the correct procedure to deal 
with it. 
Crew trapped 
Crew beneath sail 
Push your hand up and make an 
air pocket in the sail. Then, 
keeping one hand above your 
head to push the sail, work your 
way,using a seamline to guide 
you, to the outside edge. 
Crew under hull 
There is plenty of air inside the 
hull. Swim to an outer edge and 
push yourself under the side 
decking to get out 
—Stewart Brand 
Chapman Piloting 
For reference on board stick by ‘““Chapman’s.”’ In print 
since 1922, now in its 57th edition, this is the only available 
one-volume complete introduction to running a boat — 
from its excellent intro to nautical terminology through 
navigation, rules of the road, flag bloody etiquette, weather, 
electronics, boat trailering, the whole wet gamut. That 
it is not at all restricted to sailboats helps broaden and 
inform the otherwise narrow windblown mind. 
—Stewart Brand 
A Boats that must cross a bar with breaking waves must 
avoid ‘’pitchpoling’” — being thrown end over end if 
caught driving down the face of a steep sea, burying the 
bow. This double-ended fisherman just misses being 
caught on the forward face of a breaker. This is no place 
for pleasure boats. 
Weather Warning Signals 
Sailing on a Micro-Budget 
Yachtsmen may blanch at the very title of this book, but 
statistics don’t lie; there is a ratio between boat size and 
how often it gets used — the bigger, the lesser. What's 
available in smaller (mostly trailerable) boats and what 
one may expect from them is examined here in sprightly 
fashion — enough to make you think mad thoughts. If you 
can’t sail that $300,000 dreamboat to Bora Bora, then 
perhaps you might consider a weekend at Lake Tehat- 
chapoocoo? Indeed! Hold on a minute while | get my 
sneakers and suntan oil. 
—JB 
The Dovekie by Edey & Duff boatbuilders, Mattapoisett, 
Massachusetts is a 21-foot vessel. Leeboards are simple, 
efficient, and they open up the cabin interior where a 
centerboard trunk would be a major nuisance. The 
Dovekie draws only four inches with leeboards raised and 
so it will go anywhere. The cockpit melts into a partially 
enclosed ‘‘cabin’’ that has several generous molded in 
skylights. Canvas panels close up the ‘‘cabin’’ and 
cockpit at night into a spacious sheltered area. The 
whole boat weighs only 600 pounds. 
The enormous interior 
of the Dovekie 21. 
