Science and the Paranormal 
If you just wanted to read one book skeptical of the para- 
normal, this would have to be it. Twenty experts, most of 
them scientists, take the time to study the evidence for 
various paranormal claims within their areas of expertise. 
Botanist Arthur Galston discusses the failures to replicate 
“plant consciousness’’ research published in the 
sensationalistic Secret Life of Plants. Astronomer Carl 
Sagan examines the Biblically-inspired catastrophist 
reinterpretation of solar system history proposed in 
Immanuel Velikovsky’s Worlds in Collision. Surgeon 
William Nolen reports on his extensive investigation of 
psychic healing. The magician James ‘‘The Amazing’”’ 
Randi demonstrates his duplications of psychic 
“miracles.’’ The lyrical closing chapter by M.1.T. physicist 
Philip Morrison redirects the reader to the genuine 
fountains of wonder that are the basis of all great science. 
This book is an intelligent, informed analysis of some of 
the most widely held paranormal beliefs, and a lesson in 
critical thinking to boot. 
—Ted Schultz 
Fads and Fallacies 
in the Name of Science 
Martin Gardner is a well-known science writer who for 
years authored the ‘“‘Mathematical Games’’ column in 
Scientific American. First published in 1952, this volume 
is THE classic of skeptical literature. Gardner displays some 
of the best qualities of a skeptical author: good writing, 
good research in an area fraught with obscurity, and 
genuine fascination for pseudoscience and crankery of all 
kinds. His book is a parade of eccentric people and ec- 
centric theories: hollow and flat Earth, bizarre physics, 
Lysenkoism, the Bates vision-correction system, Reich’s 
orgonomy, general semantics, parapsychology, medical 
quackery (always a fertile field). You'd have to spend 
years haunting libraries and writing away for pamphlets 
to assemble half of the histories and biographies that 
Gardner presents here in a thoroughly sane, good- 
humored style. 
—Tled Schultz 
a 
Nor is Henry [the dowser] likely to try the blindfold test 
with which he was once challenged by a wise professor 
at the University of Massachusetts. This test is even simpler. 
Let Henry find a spot where his rod dips strongly. Then 
let him be blindfolded securely and led about over the 
area to see if his stick dips repeatedly when he walks 
across the same spot. Could anything be fairer? 
The Great Pyramid of Egypt was involved in many 
medieval and Renaissance cults, especially in the 
Rosicrucian and other occult traditions, but it was not 
until 1859 that modern Pyramidology was born. This was 
the year that John Taylor, an eccentric partner in a Lon- 
don publishing firm, issued his The Great Pyramid: Why 
was it Built? And Who Built it? 
Taylor never visited the Pyramid, but the more he studied 
its structure, the more he became convinced that its ar- 
chitect was not an Egyptian, but an Israelite acting 
under divine orders. Perhaps it was Noah himself. 
James Randi simulates a psychic healer 
removing a supposed tumor. 
SKEPTICISM 
LEARNING 391 
As an experienced surgeon | immediately 
recognized what | had previously sus- 
pected from viewing the films: These so- 
called operations were simply feats of 
legerdemain. | managed to persuade Joe 
Mercado, one of the best-known psychic 
surgeons, to operate on me, explaining 
- that | had high blood pressure (true) and 
that high blood pressure might be caused 
by kidney disease (also true). He operated 
on me while | stood by the side of the 
altar in his church (at six foot one | was too tall to lie 
down on the altar on which he operated on most of his 
patients). Looking down on his hands, | could easily see 
as he began the “‘operation’”’ that he had palmed the in- 
testines and fat of a small animal. | watched him carefully 
as he pushed against me and it was apparent, both vis- 
vally and from the way his hands felt as they pressed on 
my abdominal musculature, that he had not penetrated 
my abdominal wall. When he ‘‘removed”’ the fatty tissue, 
he held it up for all the spectators to see and said, ‘’Evil 
tissue.” He immediately tossed it into a can of flaming 
alcohol kept behind the altar. 
The Skeptical Inquirer 
For years paranormalists complained: ‘’Why don’t scien- 
tists investigate this?’’ Scientists do, and their reports 
regularly take up the challenge in the pages of the Skep- 
tical Inquirer. For a decade, this journal of the Committee 
for the Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal 
has been a lone voice in a sea of irrationality. High-quality 
articles with plenty of references thoroughly survey and 
analyze all kinds of paranormal claims. Sure, there’s plenty 
of debunking — usually right on target. Anyone who 
reads from the extensive literature of the paranormal has 
to read the Skeptical Inquirer, if only for balance. | 
recently purchased a complete set of back issues; you 
can’t get this information anywhere else. 
—Ted Schultz 
When UFO commentator and gadfly James Moseley 
shocked and upset many readers of his newsletter, 
Saucer Smear, by announcing that he was “‘losing the 
faith,’’ the well-known UFO and Fortean researcher 
Jerome Clark suggested that he might regain some of his 
lost ‘‘faith’’ if he were to look into a really excellent UFO 
case, such as Rendlesham. Moseley did, and the result 
eroded his confidence in UFOlogy even further. He found 
that two British researchers from the Swindon Centre for 
UFO Research and Investigation made a brief preliminary 
investigation and found five major discrepancies in the 
published reports. 
Kirlian aura of whole and broken leaves: (a), whole leaf; 
(b), broken leaf with one piece missing; (c), broken leaf 
with broken sections separated. 
The Skeptical 
Inquirer 
Kendrick Frazier, Editor 
$20 /year 
(4 issues) from: 
The Skeptical Inquirer 
Box 229 
Buffalo, NY 14215-0229 
Fads and Fallacies 
Martin Gardner 
1957; 363 pp. 
$5.95 
($6.60 postpaid) from: 
Dover Publications 
31 E. Second Street 
Mineola, NY 11501 
or Whole Earth Access 
Pater 
PROBING ae 
ExT A 
$05. 
spol 
pote Ee 
Pe gO 
Science and 
the Paranormal 
George O. Abell and 
Barry Singer, Editors 
1981; 414 pp. 
$1 2.95 postpaid from: 
Macmillan Publishing Co. 
Order Dept. 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth Access 
None of our photographs 
demonstrated the phantom- 
leaf effect. In no case was 
an aura detected in the 
region of the missing leaf 
or around its boundary. 
