LAND USE 
PESTS 
80 
Rodale’s Color 
Handbook of 
Garden Insects 
Anna Carr 
1979; 241 pp. 
$1 2.95 postpaid from: 
Rodale Press 
33 East Minor Street 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
or Whole Earth Access 
identifying 
Diseases of 
Vegetables 
A. A. MacNab, A.F. Sherf, 
and S.K. Springer 
1983; 62 pp. 
$8 postpaid from: 
Agricultural Publications 
Department 
The Pennsylvania State 
University 
Agriculture Administration 
Building 
University Park, PA 16802 
or Whole Earth Access 
Reuter “‘Attack’’ 
Natural Pest 
Controls 
Catalog free from: 
Reuter Laboratories 
8450 Natural Way 
Manassas Park, VA 22111 
Rodale’s Color Handbook 
of Garden Insects 
More than 300 pests and beneficial insects leap from 
these pages in close-up color photographs. While your 
own worst enemy may not appear (because the insect 
world is far more varied than a single book can cover), a 
similar species is probably listed — along with organic 
controls, geographic range and life cycle data. 
—Rosemary Menninger 
a 
Range: throughout North America. 
Description: Green with a light stripe; several hairs on 
each segment; % inch long. Adult: Brownish yellow moth 
with gray and brown marking; 34-inch wingspan. Eggs: 
Laid in clusters on the leoves. 
Life Cycle: Two to four generations. Pupae overwinter 
in the soil. 
Host Plants: Bean, beet, corn, pea, strawberry. 
Adult 
Larvae 
Caterpillar: Garden Webworm (Achyra rantalis) 
Feeding Habits: Larvae spin light webs and feed within, 
dropping to the ground when disturbed. 
Insect Predators: Various trichogramma wasps. 
Natural Controls: Use Bacillus thuringiensis or pyrethrum 
for intolerable infestations. 
identifying Diseases 
of Vegetables 
This book gives brief and nontechnical descriptions of the 
major diseases of common garden vegetables and illus- 
trates each one with a high-quality color photograph. It 
does not prescribe cures of any kind, although from the 
explanations of environmental conditions that some 
diseases prefer — such as cool, wet weather or poorly 
drained soils — you may get clues as to what went wrong 
in your case. If this book needed a subtitle it would be 
‘Keeping Ahead of the Fungi.”’ 
—Richard Nilsen 
Tobacco Mosaic of tomato. 
Viruses and herbicides often cause leaf deformation that 
is most severe on new growth. Tobacco mosaic, 
cucumber mosaic, and 2,4-D are three common causes 
of these symptoms. 
Tobacco Mosaic is caused by a virus that affects 
tomatoes, eggplants, peppers, and related plants. Symp- 
toms on tomato foliage include light- and dark-green 
mottling with curling and slight malformation of leaflets. 
Sometimes green fruit are mottled. Affected plants may 
be stunted. The virus is very persistent and infectious, 
and can be spread by merely brushing against plants. 
The virus is not spread by aphids. 
Insecticidal Soap 
Soaps are made of fatty acids from plants and animals. 
There are hundreds of these fatty acids, and while most 
will get dirt off your hands, a select few will also kill insect 
pests yet not harm people, beneficial insects, or the plants 
themselves. Safer Agro-Chem has built an innovative line 
of products around these special soaps — the one for use 
against fruit and vegetable pests is safe to use right up to 
the day of harvest. Others kill moss and algae, powdery 
mildew, and fleas on pets. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Insecticidal Soap 
Information free from: 
Safer’s Inc. 
P.O. Box 649 
Jamul, CA 92035 
or at your local 
garden supply store. 
Natural Pest Controls 
Don’t insects ever get sick? Yes, if they eat the right 
bacteria. Scientists have discovered naturally occurring 
microbial insecticides for many garden pests like tomato 
worms and grasshoppers, and even one for mosquitoes 
and black flies. And since they are specific as to what 
they infect, they do not harm fish, honeybees, chickens 
that eat grasshoppers, your ripe tomatoes, or you. Reuter 
Labs sells 18 of these products under the brand name 
“Attack. ’’ If you can’t find them at your garden store then 
write the company. 
—Richard Nilsen 
e See Gardener’s Supply Co. catalog (p. 78) for more pest 
control products. 
¢ For more on pesticide reform, see ‘’Biohazards’’ (p. 107). 
