WHOLE SYSTEMS 
CONSERVATION 45 
< “An empty food bow! in Asia is not easily filled by wheat grown in the American Middle West.”’ 
Environmental Conservation 
This is the single most important text reviewed in this 
catalog — as true in Nairobi as in Anchorage — where 
I’ve heard young people talk of Environmental Conser- 
vation with inspired hope that maybe, just maybe, the 
Earth could be a less aggravating, doomful, destructed 
place to be. Dasmann writes with a gentle, quiet passion 
always entwining the human, natural and spiritual worlds. 
Like all great teachers, his explanations are simple but 
not simplified. No fact about soils, food, water, industri- 
alization, biomes, wildlife or thermal power remains 
unlinked. Each is connected by a deep understanding 
of the human needs to eat, be sheltered, and to feel 
themselves a part of a humane community. There is 
perhaps no other textbook that has survived as long 
(revised over 25 years) and spread so far into the school 
systems of the industrialized as well as Third World na- 
tions. Michelet said: ‘’Education, Government, Religion. 
. 
. 
. These are the same word.’’ Dasmann’s text says it 
for the planet. 
—Peter Warshall 
Throughout the world, in prairie, steppe, pampas, and 
veld, ranges are still being damaged and deserts are 
encroaching on formerly useful land. The more produc- 
tive ranges with high carrying capacities usually receive 
adequate care, but the more arid and marginal range- 
lands are frequently exploited with little apparent concern 
for the future. Abuse of rangelands carries not only the 
consequences of lowered carrying capacity and a dimin- 
ished economic return from the land but affects all other 
natural resources as well. In some areas a valuable wild- 
life resource is destroyed to make room for livestock; the 
range is then damaged so that it is no longer suited for 
either wildlife or livestock. Such damaged areas are a 
source of erosion and disruption of watersheds, which 
can, in turn, affect still wider areas than those origin- 
ally damaged. 
A Sand County Almanac 
The most important book on ethics ever written on 
American soil . 
. 
. honest, clear, graceful, superbly 
crafted... 
. It begins: ‘There are some who can live 
without wild things, and some who cannot. These essays 
are the delights and dilemmas of one who cannot.’ For 
Leopold, like Thoreau, human nature and nature’s nature 
are inseparable natures and anything worth saying must 
be born from both. So The Almanac exposes, reflects on, 
and strays into ‘‘values’’ that humans might cherish but it 
never strays too far from wildness, that teacher of many 
minds. In short, this is the bible of ‘‘oikos-logos’’ — the 
governing principle of our communal home — “‘ecology.’ 
—Peter Warshall 
‘ 
e 
Thinking Like a Mountain 
A deep chesty bawl echoes from rimrock to rimrock, rolls 
down the mountain, and fades into the far blackness of 
the night. It is an outburst of wild defiant sorrow, and of 
contempt for all the adversities of the world. 
Every living thing (and perhaps many a dead one as 
well) pays heed to that call. To the deer it is a reminder 
of the way of all flesh, to the pine a forecast of midnight 
scuffles and of blood upon the snow, to the coyote a 
promise of gleanings to come, to the cowman a threat of 
red ink at the bank, to the hunter a challenge of fang 
against bullet. Yet behind these obvious and immediate 
hopes and fears there lies a deeper meaning, known 
ky to the mountain itself. Only the mountain has 
ATT 
TT ER ET OTIS IE A EEO TOLLE DE 
IE OGL 
EEE SLI IED, 
© Tracking the smugglers and wildlife trade. 
TRAFFIC (U.S.A.): Lynne Hardie Lehman, Editor. Membership 
$10/year (includes 4 issues) from World Wildlife Fund, 1255 
23rd Street NW, Washington, DC 20037. 
¢ See also Audubon Magazine (p. 27), Earth First! (p. 87), 
and the Sierra Club (p. 87). 
lived long enough to listen objectively to the howl 
of a wolf. 
The Ethical Sequence 
This extension of ethics, so far studied only by philos- 
ophers, is actually a process in ecological evolution. 
Its sequences may be described in ecological as well 
as in philosophical terms. An ethic, ecologically, is a 
limitation on freedom of action in the struggle for exist- 
ence. An ethic, philosophically, is a differentiation of 
social from anti-social conduct. These are two definitions 
of one thing. The thing has its origin in the tendency of 
interdependent individuals or groups to evolve modes of 
co-operation. The ecologist calls these symbioses. Politics 
and economics are advanced symbioses in which the 
original free-for-all competition has been replaced, in 
part, by co-operative mechanisms with an ethical content. 
The complexity of co-operative mechanisms has increased 
with population density, and the efficiency of tools. It 
was simpler, for example, to define the anti-social uses of 
sticks and stones in the days of the mastodons than of 
bullets and billboards in the age of motors. 
Environmental 
Conservation Journal 
The contributors cover the biosphere. And surprisingly, 
even when they are fairly technical, the articles are readily 
understandable — perhaps because the science involved 
is human scale. This magazine qualifies as the single 
journal most thoroughly in support of planetary diversity. 
Read the subtitle (“‘the international Journal devoted to 
maintaining global viability through exposing and counter- 
ing environmental deterioration resulting from human 
population-pressure and unwise technology”’). Find it 
in the library. 
—Stewart Brand 
Environmental 
Conservation 
Raymond F. Dasmann 
5th edition 1984; 486 pp. 
$26.45 
postpaid from: 
John Wiley and Sons 
1 Wiley Drive 
Somerset, NJ 08873 
or Whole Earth Access 
A Sand 
County Almanac 
Aldo Leopold 
1949; 226 pp. 
$7.95 
postpaid from: 
Oxford University Press 
16-00 Pollitt Drive 
Fair Lawn, NJ 07410 
or Whole Earth Access 
Environmental 
Conservation 
Journal 
Nicholas Polunin, Editor 
190 Swiss Francs/year 
(4 issues) from: 
Environmental 
Conservation 
Elsevier Sequoia S.A. 
P. O. Box 851 
1001 Lausanne 1 
Switzerland 
