184 LIVELIHOOD 
HE BIOLOGICAL PARALLEL of “livelihood” is niche — the position by which an organism, or a community of 
organisms, supports itself. Livelihood is about managing the position of survival, about doing useful work. All the talk 
about money on the following pages is meant to impart the lesson that money, like sunlight, is free, but that managing, 
storing, and passing money on costs something. Those who handle this efficiently flourish in their main purpose. 
Another way of saying that is: Livelihood success, whether of an individual or nation, depends on ignoring the pursuit of wealth, and 
paying horrific attention to the mighty details of money’s pattern. These tools are for that. 
Walden 
Henry David Thoreau 
1854; 255 pp. 
$1 95 
($2.95 postpaid) from: 
New American Library 
120 Woodbine Street 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621 
or Whole Earth Access 
Small is Beautiful 
E.F. Schumacher 
1975; 305 pp. 
$4.95 
($6.45 postpaid) from: 
Harper and Row 
2350 Virginia Avenue 
Hagerstown, MD 21740 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Zero-Sum 
Society 
Lester C. Thurow 
1980; 230 pp. 
$5.95 
($6.95 postpaid) from: 
Penguin Books 
299 Murray Hill Parkway 
East Rutherford, NJ 07073 
or Whole Earth Access 
—Kevin Kelly 
Walden 
The prime document of America’s 3rd Revolution, now in 
progress. This edition is the one, | believe, that Thoreau 
would have bought. 
—Steward Brand 
| see young men, my townsmen, whose misfortune it is to 
have inherited farms, houses, barns, cattle, and farming 
tools; for these are more easily acquired than got rid of. 
@ 
Near the end of March, 1845, | borrowed an axe and 
went down to the woods by Walden Pond, nearest to 
where | intended to build my house, and began to cut 
down some tall, arrowy white pines, still in their youth, 
for timber. It is difficult to begin without borrowing, but 
perhaps it is the most generous course thus to permit 
your fellow-men to have an interest in your enterprise. 
The owner of the axe, as he released his hold on it, said 
that it was the apple of his eye; but | returned it sharper 
than | received it. 
For more than five years | maintained myself thus solely 
by the labor of my hands, and | found that, by working 
about six weeks in a year, | could meet all the expenses 
of living. The whole of my winters, as well as most of my 
summers, | had free and clear for study. | have thoroughly 
tried school-keeping, and found that my expenses were 
in proportion, or rather out of proportion, to my income, 
for | was obliged to dress and train, not to say think and 
believe, accordingly, and | lost my time into the bargain. 
As | did not teach for the good of my fellow-men, but 
simply for a livelihood, this was a failure. 
e 
| learned this, at least, by my experiment: that if one 
advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and 
endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will 
meet with a success unexpected in common hours. 
Small is Beautiful 
| doubt if Americans have been so influenced by printed 
eloquence since Thomas Paine’s Common Sense helped 
focus our founding independence. Schumacher is fighting 
a similar oppression, only this time we colonized our- 
selves, as he reveals by sub-titling his book ‘Economics 
as if People Mattered.’’ 
The wonder of Schumacher’s work is his eminent practi- 
cality, based on his years with the British Coal Board. 
With good sense and a mature spirituality, Schumacher 
comes on like John Henry against the mega-machine, 
sure that he will win, and he is. 
—Stewart Brand 
° 
As Gandhi said, the poor of the world cannot be helped 
by mass production, only by production by the masses. 
The system of mass production, based on sophisticated, 
highly capital-intensive, high energy-input dependent, 
and human labour-saving technology, presupposes that 
you are already rich, for a great deal of capital invest- 
ment is needed to establish one single workplace. The 
system of production by the masses mobilises the price- 
less resources which are possessed by all human beings, 
their clever brains and skilful hands, and supports them 
with first-class tools. The technology of mass production is 
inherently violent, ecologically damaging, self-defeating 
in terms of non-renewable 
resources, and stultifying for 
the human person. The technology of production by the 
masses, making use of the best of modern knowledge 
and experience, is conducive to decentralisation, compa- 
tible with the laws of ecology, gentle in its use of scarce 
resources, and designed to serve the human person in- 
stead of making him the servant of machines. | have 
named it intermediate technology to signify that it is 
vastly superior to the primitive technology of bygone 
ages but at the same time much simpler, cheaper, and 
freer than the supertechnology of the rich. One can 
also call it self-help technology, or democratic or peo- 
ple’s technology — a technology to which everybody 
can gain admittance and which is not reserved to those 
already rich and powerful. 
The Zero-Sum Society 
“‘Zero-Sum”’ is a crack at the no-free-lunch dilemma 
America finds itself in after three decades of tumultuous 
prosperity. Whatever we do, whatever we want, whom- 
ever we listen to economically, there are real and 
unavoidable trade-offs. But rather than simply analyzing 
the downside, Thurow provides a long and articulate 
series of proposals to get us off dead center. He points 
out that it’s not for the lack of solutions that we stand 
aside from true economic change — it’s due to the fact 
that few of us will tolerate the possibility of redistributing 
our nation’s wealth. Read Thurow for lack of cant and for 
richness and originality of thought. 
—Paul Hawken 
The problem with zero-sum games is that the essence of 
problem solving is loss allocation. But this is precisely 
what our political process is least capable of doing. 
When there are economic gains to be allocated, our 
political process can allocate them. When there are 
large economic losses to be allocated, our political 
process is paralyzed. And with political paralysis comes 
economic paralysis. 
Since economic gains are relatively easy to allocate, the 
basic problem comes down to one of allocating economic 
losses. Whose income ‘‘ought’’ to go down? 
Historically we have used economic growth to avoid 
having to make this judgment. If we just have more 
growth, we can have more good jobs for everyone, and 
we won't have to worry about taking jobs away from 
whites and giving them to blacks. If we just have more 
economic growth, we won't have to worry about gov- 
ernment collecting taxes in the Northeast and spending 
them in the Southwest. More is obviously better than less, 
and economic growth has been seen as the social lubri- 
cant that can keep different groups working together. 
As they say in Colorado, a conservationist is a person 
who built his mountain cabin last year, while a devel- 
oper is someone who wants to build his mountain cabin 
this year. 
