| 
i 
| 
OIL IS THE STAGE from which all things — good, 
beautiful, vicious, creative, dull, outrageous and evil 
— emerge. A teaspoon of living earth contains five 
million bacteria, twenty million fungi, one million 
protozoa, and two hundred thousand algae. Amoebas slide over 
sand grains hunting bacteria. Bacteria swim through micro-rivers 
scarfing nutrients. Viruses attack bacteria. Nematode worms, 
like soil hyenas, devour almost anything. There are about 9,500 
kinds of soil in the United States and no one has ever tried to 
create sanctuaries for any of them. 
There is no single great book on soils; below we review the best 
of what’s available. 
—Peter Warshall 
< 
Root system of a corn plant growing in deep open soil. Roots of 
crops such as alfalfa or of trees probably penetrate even further. 
Soil Conservation 
The Nature and Properties of Soils 
Society of America 
A college text on soil science. The writing is clear, there 
is a glossary of terms, and the section headings make it 
easy fo find the information you want quickly. More facts 
than most peop le need, but well worth consulting SM 
the Pacific Northwest, 85 percent of the farms lose five 
specific subjects. 
—Richard Nilsen 
tons of their topsoil yearly. The Soil Conservation Society 
Ad 
of America provides a meeting ground for all the special- 
Of the six major factors affecting the growth of plants, 
ized interests who are interested in preserving the ultimate 
only light is not supplied by soils. The soil supplies water, | strength of this nation: its soil. They publish a technical 
air, and mechanical support for plant roots as well as 
but, for my interests, totally absorbing magazine — The 
heat to enhance chemical reactions. It also supplies 
Journal of Soil and Water Conservation. It’s a mature 
seventeen plant nutrients that are essential for plant 
group, organized in 1945. 
—Peter Warshall 
growth. These nutrients are slowly released from un- 
available forms in the solid framework of minerals and 
organic matter to exchangeable cations associated with 
soil colloids and finally to readily available ions in the 
soil solution. The ability of soils to provide these ions 
in a proper balance determines their primary value 
to humankind. 
Over one million acres of prime farmland disappear in 
urban development each year. In the Great Plains and 
Local Soils 
Every citizen should be able to say: “‘I live ona sandy-loam 
that is about ten feet deep and covers half my community. “’ 
Soil Conservation Maps are step one but are not detailed 
enough for some projects (like house-to-house septic tank 
assessment or gardening problems). Scales vary from one 
inch equals 1,320 feet to one inch equals one mile. Maps 
are available (for free, usually) from your local Soil 
Conservation Service (see telephone book) or write to the 
SCS in Washington, DC. 
—Peter Warshall 
Soil Conservation Service 
Department of Agriculture 
P. O. Box 2890 
Washington, DC 20013 
Soil Conser- 
vation Maps 
Information free from: 
World Soils 
This introduction to the soils of the world is complete with a 
brief course in soil science (pedology). A knowledge of what 
kind of soils are where, and why they are there, is critical 
for geographers, land use planners, and food-raisers. 
The closeup emphasizes soil layering and the distinctive 
character of the soil profile. The surface layer is darker in 
FOREST 
—JB 
color because of its higher organic matter content. One of 
P 
the subsurface horizons (point of pick) is characterized by a 
distinctive structure. The existence of layers such as those 
shown is used to help differentiate one soil from another. 
GARRIGUE 
¢ The best out-of-print book on soils, The World of Soil by 
Sir E. John Russell, should be available in most libraries and 
might be reprinted. 
¢ For soils and civilization, gardening, forestry, and renewal, 
see the ‘Land Use”’ section (pp. 60-85). 
SeSesen 
Rendzina 
Red 
Mediterranean 
Brown 
Mediterranean 
soil 
/ Terra Rossa 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
SOIL 37 
The Nature and 
Properties of Soils 
Nyle C. Brady 
1984; 750 pp. 
ISBN 0-02-313340-6 
$27.50 
postpaid from: 
Whole Earth Access 
(or order through your 
local bookstore) 
Journal of 
Soil and Water 
Conservation 
Max Schnepf, Editor 
$25 \year 
(6 issues) from: 
Soil Conservation 
Society of America 
7515 NE Ankeny 
Ankeny, |A 50021 
World Soils 
E. M. Bridges 
1978; 128 pp. 
$1 1.95 postpaid from: 
Cambridge University Press 
510 North Avenue 
New Rochelle, NY 10801 
or Whole Earth Access 
< 
Mediterranean soils and 
relationship to landscape. 
