204 
LIVELIHOOD 
LEGAL SELF-CARE 
In most states it is possible 
to have someone from the 
sheriff or marshal’s office 
sent to the business of a 
person who owes you 
money to collect it from the 
cash on hand... .Adeputy 
goes to the business one 
time and picks up all the 
money in the till. The fee 
for this service normally 
varies from $15-$50. 
Everybody’s Guide 
to Small Claims 
Court 
Ralph Warner 
1985; 263 pp. 
$10.95 
($12.45 postpaid) from: 
Nolo Press 
950 Parker Street 
Berkeley, CA 94710 
or Whole Earth Access 
ACLU 
Handbook Price List 
free from: 
ACLU - Books 
1400 20th Street NW 
Room 119 
Washington, DC 20036 
UPPOSEDLY, LAWYERS HATE and fear self-help law books because they 2ncroach on our 
sacred turf. But as a lawyer myself, I think self-help law books are a wonderful idea. 
Why? Think of a toothbrush. Think of dental floss. Does your dentist scoff at them? Imagine 
what your teeth would look like to the dentist if you never brushed or flossed. That is typically 
how a lawyer finds the legal affairs of a client who has never practiced simple legal self-care. With aware- 
ness and thoughtful action, you can avoid major legal disasters that can be as costly and as painful as a 
root canal. 
Caution: Just as you would not attempt to wire your child’s braces, you should be wary of initiating or 
defending your own lawsuit. These legal self-care books will help you determine when to have a professional 
by your side. Even if you do hire an attorney after reading legal self-care books, you will be better off — 
you will have avoided legal mistakes that can cost pain, time, and money. 
—Donna Hall 
Everybody’s Guide to 
Small Claims Court 
is worth... . 
This is a superb book, flawless! No small business should 
The second great advantage . 
. 
. is simplicity. The 
be without it. If you like to sue other people and 
businesses, then you'll also find it helpful. 
—Michael Phillips 
Litigation should be a last, not a first, resort. Suing is not 
as bad as a shooting, but neither is it as much fun as a 
good back rub. Rarely does anyone have a high time in 
court. In addition to being time consuming and emotion- 
ally draining, lawsuits tend to polarize disagreements into 
win-all or lose-all propositions in which face-saving (and 
pocketbook saving) compromise is difficult. 
This doesn’t mean that | don’t think you should pursue 
your case to court if necessary. What | am suggesting is 
this: before you file your case, ask yourself whether you 
have done everything reasonably possible (and then a 
little more) to try to settle the case. 
e 
There are three great advantages of Small Claims Court. 
First, you get to prepare and present your own case 
without having to pay a lawyer more than your claim 
gobbledygook of complicated legal forms and language 
is kept to a minimum. To start your case, you need only 
fill out a few lines on a simple form (e.g., ‘Honest Al’s 
Used Chariots owed me $1,000 because the 1977 Chey- 
ette they sold me in supposedly ‘excellent condition’ died 
less than a mile from the car lot.’’ When you get to 
court, you can talk to the judge without a whole lot of 
“res ipsa loquiturs’’ and ‘’pendente lites.’’ If you have 
documents or witnesses, you may present them for what 
they are worth, with no requirement that you comply 
with the thousand years’ accumulation of fusty, musty 
procedures, habits and so-called rules of evidence of 
which the legal profession is so proud. 
Third, and perhaps most important, Small Claims Court 
doesn’t take long. 
Here is a one-sentence definition. If, as a result of 
another person’s conduct, your property is injured and 
that person didn’t act with reasonable care in the cir- 
cumstances, you have a case based on his or her 
negligence. It’s as simple — or complex — as that. 
Nolo Press 
Nolo has been producing high quality self-help law books since 1971 and has 
set the standard for understandable and comprehensive volumes. They are to 
law what Chilton’s (p. 269) are to automotive repair. All of Nolo’s books are 
updated as the law changes. As their newsletter, Nolo News, remarks, out of 
4 
date equals dangerous! To ensure that your volume is up to date they print a 
a 
number you can call in each book, and they give substantial discounts to 
—Donna Hall 
individuals who want to update older editions. 
Nolo Press 
Publications list frees 
Nolo News 
$7/year 
(4 issues) 
Both from: 
Nolo Press 
950 Parker Street 
Berkeley, CA 94710 
ELATED IIE STELIOS TS DSL ES NTL TTC RETTIG AA TST TET TESTS 
ACLU Handbooks 
As Andrew Fluegelman wrote when we first reviewed this 
series 15 years ago, ““Knowing what your rights are won't 
keep you from having them violated, but you'll stand a 
much better chance of protecting yourself when someone 
tries.’ These essential handbooks, published by the 
American Civil Liberties Union, are, deplorably, going 
out of print; but we still heartily recommend the ones 
remaining. Also, see The Rights of Employees (p. 188). 
—Art Kleiner 
vs 
AT THAT AMBITIO 
of Lok 
time 6SQVIRE 60 
+c] 
\ 
ie 
| 
pI 
At a convention of biological scientists one researcher 
remarks to another, "Did you know that in our lab we 
have switched from white mice to lawyers for our 
experiments 
7" 
"Really?" the other replicd, “Why did you switch?" 
“Well, for two reasons. First we found that lawyers 
are far more plentiful, and second, the lab assistants 
don't get so attached to them." 
¢ A good way to follow developments in legal reform. 
Americans for Legal Reform: Richard Hebert, Editor; 
$15/year (4 issues) including membership, from HALT — An 
Organization of Americans for Legal Reform, 1319 F Street 
N.W., Suite 300, Washington, DC 20004. 
