FARMING PHILOSOPHY 
LAND USE 6! 
The Unsettling of America 
Our land is more undone by our agriculture than by any 
other mischief. Farmer, poet, essayist Wendell Berry 
speaks to the matter with plain speech — it rasps the 
brain, leaves a memory of the thought. Don’t say it is no 
longer possible to do our farming right. Berry is. 
—Stewart Brand 
r 
We need wilderness as a standard of civilization and as 
a cultural model. Only by preserving areas where 
nature’s processes are undisturbed can we preserve an 
accurate sense of the impact of civilization upon its 
The One-Straw Revolution 
By changing one of the grasses in his rice fields to 
another variety, Fukuoka started a process that brought 
his part of the ecosystem into a natural balance. On his 
farm he gets yields comparable to traditional farms’ but 
without plowing; he lets nature do the work. He simply 
plants and harvests — pretty revolutionary. The book 
describes his method. 
—Rosemary Menninger 
e 
Make your way carefully through these fields. 
Dragonflies and moths fly up in a flurry. Honeybees 
buzz from blossom to blossom. Part the leaves and you 
will see insects, spiders, frogs, lizards and many other 
small animals bustling about in the cool shade. Moles 
and earthworms burrow beneath the surface. 
This is a balanced rice field ecosystem. Insect and plant 
communities maintain a stable relationship here. It is not 
uncommon for a plant disease to sweep through this 
area, leaving the crops in these fields unaffected. 
And now look over at the neighbor’s field for a moment. 
The weeds have all been wiped out by herbicides and 
cultivation. The soil animals and insects have been exter- 
minated by poison. The soil has been burned clean of 
organic matter and microorganisms by chemical fer- 
tilizers. In the summer you see farmers at work in the 
fields, wearing gas masks and long rubber gloves. These 
rice fields, which have been farmed continuously for 
over 1,500 years, have now been laid waste by the ex- 
ploitive farming practices of a single generation. 
“And yet 
these fields 
have not 
been plowed = 
for twenty- 
five years.’’ 
= 
e See also New Roots for Agriculture, p. 85. 
e The classic on the domestication of plants, by a damned 
interesting man. Bless him, he annotates his bibliography. 
Plants, Man and Life: Edgar Anderson, 1952; 251 pp. 
$3.95 ($5.45 postpaid) from University of California Press, 
2120 Berkeley Way, Berkeley, CA 94720. 
Or Whole Earth Access 
natural sources. Only if we know how the land was can 
we tell how it is. 
A part of the health of a farm is the farmer’s wish to re- 
main there. His long-term good intention toward the 
place is signified by the presence of trees. A family is 
married to a farm more by their planting and protecting 
of trees than by their memories or their knowledge, for 
the trees stand for their fidelity and kindness to what 
they do not know. The most revealing sign of the ill 
health of industrial agriculture — its greed, its short-term 
ambitions — is its inclination to see trees as obstructions 
and to strip the land bare of them. 
Meeting the Expectations 
of the Land 
The title of this collection of essays about sustainable 
agriculture conveys an apt reversal. A line from Robert 
Frost might help: ‘’The land was ours before we were the 
land’s.’’ The ideas here are visionary in that they look 
both forward and backward in time, but lest you think the 
book advocates a retreat to agricultural animism, it is 
worth emphasizing that these ideas are also very prac- 
tical. You won’t find them in use on most American farms 
today because there the emphasis has been on productivity 
and profits. 
Profits? Even if your news from the farm comes only from 
the TV, you know you can forget about “‘profits’’ in farm- 
ing. And productivity? Sure, that’s there, but it is the 
same kind you find in a coal mine. When the coal is gone 
you shut it down and move on. When the topsoil is gone, 
or the soil is salted out from irrigation, where do you go? 
You go to a kind of agriculture that can sustain; not only 
the land, but also the life on it and in it, as well as the 
people who work it and those who depend on them for 
food. This book is full of clues to how that kind of 
agriculture will work, by people like Gene Logsdon, John 
Todd and Gary Snyder. 
—Richard Nilsen 
| once asked an Amish farmer who had only twenty-six 
acres why he didn’t acquire a bit more land. He looked 
around at his ten fine cows, his sons hoeing the corn 
with him, his spring water running continuously by gravi- 
ty through house and barn, his few fat hogs, his sturdy 
buildings, his good wife heaping the table with food, his 
fine flock of hens, his plot of tobacco and acre of straw- 
berries, his handmade hickory chairs (which he sold for 
all the extra cash he really needed), and he said, ‘’Well, 
I’m just not smart enough to farm any more than this 
well.’’ | have a hunch no one could. 
Seaweed in Agriculture 
and Horticulture 
Unlike most fertilizers, seaweed is a renewable resource. 
Either sprayed on the leaves of plants (foliar feeding) or 
added to the soil, it can often be a single solution to 
many soil deficiencies — including trace elements. This 
British book has all the details. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Seaweed 
in Agriculture 
and Horticulture 
W. A. Stephenson 
1974; 241 pp. 
$7 ($9 postpaid) from: 
The Rateavers 
9049 Covina Street 
San Diego, CA 92126 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Unsettling 
of America 
Wendell Berry 
1986; 240 pp. 
$7.95 
($10.45 postpaid) from: 
Sierra Club Bookstore 
730 Polk Street 
San Francisco, CA 94109 
or Whole Earth Access 
The One-Straw 
Revolution 
Masanobu Fukuoka 
1978; 181 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Rodale Press 
33 East Minor Street 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
or Whole Earth Access 
Meeting the 
Expectations 
of the Land 
Wes Jackson, 
Wendell Berry 
and Bruce Colman 
1985; 272 pp. 
$12.50 
($14 postpaid) from: 
North Point Press 
850 Talbot Avenue 
Berkeley, CA 94706 
or Whole Earth Access 
