136 
ASE 
Larry Stoiaken, Editor 
$48 year 
(10 issues) from: 
Alternative Sources 
of Energy 
107 South Central Avenue 
Milaca, MN 56353 
NATAS 
Information free from: 
NATAS 
U.S. Department of Energy 
P. O. Box 2525 
Butte, MT 59702 
NCAT 
Publications Catalog 
free from: 
NCAT 
P. O. Box 3838 
Butte, MT 59702 
HOUSEHOLD 
ENERGY 
HEN WHOLE EARTH publications started in 1968, there was much glib talk of “free energy” 
from the sun, wind, and methane digesters. Some folks (not us) even thought that this free 
energy would by itself cause extensive political decentralization, a naive, or at least premature, 
view. But we have learned a few things: 
Funky hardware gives funky results, regardless of the righteousness of the maker. Reliable hardware is 
harder to produce and costs more than one would hope. Reduction of demand (conservation) is not very 
exciting but is the cheapest energy strategy and certainly is step one. Household-size methane digesters don’t 
work. We were right about one thing: There is nothing alternative about solar energy. ’Twas ever thus. 
But the decade has produced some reliable knowledge and hardware — much of it from the minds and 
hands of experimenters. We now know that superinsulated houses are the most economical way to go, 
whether passively solar heated or otherwise; and photovoltaics are the simplest, most economical way to 
make electricity on-site if you live where there’s sun. Sounds easy. It wasn’t. More later. Keep working. 
—J. Baldwin 
SLT, 
TL TES LENS ESD 
OO I EIS ET TS 
I TT TEST 
AIST 
TIE TI TEIT 
ASE 
ASE (Alternative Sources of Energy) started long ago as a 
funky publication serving experimenters and has matured 
along with the technology it serves. No more homemade 
windmill articles; sad but realistic. Instead we read the in- 
NATAS 
The National Appropriate Technology Assistance Service 
is associated with NCAT, but does business in a different 
way: when you need technical advice on energy matters, 
you call their 800 number. You will be connected with an 
expert who will get you the best information available. 
Right then. Call 1-800-428-2525 (1-800-428-1718 in Mon- 
tana) Yam-6pm Central Time on weekdays. They'll take 
on anything from a homeowner’s simple solar water 
heater dilemma to municipal energy policy. In this case, 
our gummint is doing something right. 
—JB 
LL 
LIS PTT 
LD I IA 
RE ITE DITES 
NCAT 
“En-Cat”’ (National Center for Appropriate Technology) 
publishes the findings of their research as inexpensive 
booklets (most less than $5). The subject matter is aimed 
at ordinary folks who wish to know more about subjects 
common fo the appropriate tech field: solar water heaters, 
composting toilets, biogas, weatherizing a mobile home 
. 
. 
. lots more. Their publications tend to summarize the 
baffling amount of information available elsewhere — 
a very useful service. 
—JB 
dustry news and latest developments in commercially 
available hardware, all slickly presented as befits the 
serious business at hand. Each issue concentrates on a 
specific subject such as cogeneration or wind power. ASE 
is one of the best ways to keep up with ASE. 
—JB 
< The City of Dixon [Califor- 
nia] recently dedicated this 
20kW. photovoltaic energy 
system on top of the roof of 
their City Hall. 
The mylar film reflectors [above], which were the product 
of five years and $15 million of research and development, 
can be seen in this photo. According to LaJet, the low- 
cost concentrators reduced the per-watt installation cost 
of a solar power plant by some 80 percent. 
RIS 
ST TSE TS ITS IA TE 
TE TRS I ET 
I 
TT 
TD 
© See ‘Rocky Mountain Institute’ (p. 89). 
¢ Here’s a rousing story of a hard-fought victory over 
obtuse power company policy. Inspiring and true. 
Dynamos and Virgins (Forcing the Future on the Nation’s 
Utilities): David Roe, 1984; 288 pp. $18.95 ($19.95 
postpaid) from: Random House, Order Dept., 400 Hahn 
Road, Westminster, MD 21157. 
