344 
AudioCraft 
Randy Thom 
1982; 183 pp. 
$15 
($17 postpaid) from: 
National Federation of 
Community Broadcasters 
1314 14th Street NW 
Washington, DC 20005 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Craft 
of Interviewing 
John Brady 
1976; 244 pp. 
$5.95 
($6.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
Order Dept. 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
The ARRL 
1986 Handbook 
Mark Wilson, Editor 
1985; 1,170 pp. 
$1 8 postpaid from: 
American Radio 
Relay League 
225 Main Street 
Newington, CT 06111 
or Whole Earth Access 
COMMUNICATIONS 
RADIO 
AudioCraft 
Last winter | began producing occasional news features 
for Radio Netherlands’ Media Network program. This 
book has been a tremendous help. Clearly written and 
presuming no technical expertise, it gives good basic 
advice on how to do broadcast-quality audio production 
on a limited budget, without putting a lot of you-can’t- 
do-that cramps on your creativity. Covers situations relevant 
to newsgathering, concert “‘remotes,’’ radio dramas, in- 
terviews, documentaries, recording sessions, promotional 
“spots, ’’ etc. Intended primarily for community radio sta- 
tions and sound artists, it should also benefit film- and 
video-makers (author Thom won an Oscar for his sound 
work on The Right Stuff). 
—Robert Horvitz 
Whenever possible, monitor the ‘’PLAYBACK”’ (‘’REPRO- 
DUCE’) signal while recording, instead of the ‘’INPUT”’ 
(““SOURCE”’) signal. Remember that with the meter-and- 
output switch in the ‘’PLAYBACK”’ position you will hear 
the actual signal that has been put on the tape, so that 
you can hear any technical problems, such as dropout, 
improperly threaded tape, or electronic problems as they 
occur, rather than later (when it may be too late)... . 
During recording, the technician should occasionally 
JI2@UM 
4JOF 
3aTAH 
1 
D12UM 
\ 4JOF\ 3TAH 
| 
\ 
iY 
Since most tape record- 
oe be - = 
iy 
rom 
left 
to right, 
this is 
DIUM 
3TAH 
| 
actually the way the 
sounds get put on the 
tape itself. Think about 
it. Most tape editing is 
= 
simply a matter of 
physically cutting out 
unwanted words or phrases, and joining the remaining 
pieces with adhesive tape. 
switch back and forth between the “INPUT” and ’‘RE- 
PRODUCE” positions. If the ‘“REPRODUCE” signal 
sounds significantly different from the ‘“INPUT”’ signal, 
something is wrong. 
A problem occurs when two microphones are positioned 
so that a single sound causes the element of one mike to 
vibrate out of phase with the element of the other. For 
this reason, it is a good idea to mix into one channel the 
outputs of all the mikes in a multi-mike setup (sum the 
mikes) one by one and listen for a drop in level or 
change in frequency response (tone quality) as each 
mike is added. If such a change occurs, you know that 
the last mike is significantly out of phase with at least 
one of the others. 
The Craft of Interviewing 
Not a brilliant book, but plenty competent enough to 
vastly improve the level of most dumb-question-dumb- 
answer published conversation. It also helps if interviewers 
have studied and done a bit of field anthropology. 
If you find yourself being an interviewee, these skills are 
even more important, since it’s your ass on the line. 
—Stewart Brand 
“| think it is very important for a person to do his home- 
work,’’ explains Manchester. ‘‘There’s nothing more 
insulting than to ask a man, like a President of the 
United States, a question that he’s answered many times 
before. Then he’s quite likely to dismiss you. So what you 
want to ask are the questions he’s never been asked 
before, questions that show that you have a great famil- 
iarity with his life. And then he’s likely to respect you and 
be interested in the exchange, the colloquy.’’ In preparing 
for his initial interview, Manchester went through a list of 
the appointments that President Kennedy had made with 
special assistants and cabinet advisers. He found that 
over 80 percent of them were within a few years of the 
President’s age. So he asked Kennedy if he were a “‘gen- 
eration chauvinist.’’ ‘Now, he’d never thought of this, ’’ 
says Manchester, ‘‘but he liked the idea and he played 
with it, and it was entertaining for him. A really first-rate 
interview with an articulate man can be fascinating for 
him. And if he is fascinated, then it will go on and you 
will learn more from him. It all depends on how much 
time you spend in advance.” 
The ARRL 1986 Handbook 
The largest and oldest national organization of ham radio 
operators, the American Radio Relay League, publishes a 
wide variety of excellent books, learning aids, and how-to 
guides, designed to serve absolute beginners as well as 
advanced experimenters. Their annual Handbook is a 
comprehensive reference, finely honed over the years to 
explain radio theory and practice in the clearest, most ac- 
curate, hands-on terms. Includes many construction pro- 
jects. Don’t order it without asking about their other 
goodies. 
—Robert Horvitz 
Parts-placement guide for the CW-receiver PC board. The 
component side is shown with an X-ray view of the foil. This 
guide shows the VXO layout. 
Bill Christian, K41KR (left) and Tim Dionne, KB4BDG, operate 
in the 1983 Field Day. During this annual, two-day event, 
thousands of radio amateurs around the U.S. set up and 
operate portable, emergency-powered stations. 
¢ For the passionate radio amateur. 
QST: Paul L. Rinaldo, Editor. $25/year (12 issues) from 
American Radio Relay League, 225 Main Street, Newington, 
CT 06111. 
