Anatomy of an Illness 
Peerless reading for the hospital bed. Norman Cousins, 
longtime editor of Saturday Review, acquired a second 
fame a few years ago with an article in the prestigious 
New England Journal of Medicine chronicling his self- 
inflicted recovery from a crippling and supposedly irre- 
versible ailment (his spine was disintegrating). 
With the aid of his unusual doctor Cousins got the hell 
out of the hospital, took full responsibility 
for his own 
treatment, and began trying stuff — massive vitamin C, 
massive cheerfulness (the famous home-showing of Marx 
Brothers and Candid Camera films). 
The miracle of cure plus Cousins’ intellectual and lively 
presentation have made this one of the most influential 
medical documents ever. Patients read it and act differently. 
So do doctors. So do hospitals. 
—Stewart Brand 
8 
| had a fast-growing conviction that a hospital is no 
place for a person who is seriously ill. The surprising lack 
of respect for basic sanitation; the rapidity with which 
staphylococci and other pathogenic organisms can run 
PATIENT CARE 
through an entire hospital; the extensive and sometimes 
promiscuous use of X-ray equipment; the seemingly in- 
discriminate administration of tranquilizers and powerful 
painkillers, sometimes more for the convenience of hos- 
pital staff in managing patients than for therapeutic 
needs; and the regularity with which hospital routine 
takes precedence over the rest requirements of the patient 
(slumber, when it comes for an ill person, is an uncommon 
blessing and is not to be wantonly interrupted) — all 
these and other practices seemed to me to be critical 
shortcomings of the modern hospital. 
| made the joyous discovery that ten minutes of genuine 
belly laughter had an anesthetic effect and would give 
me at least two hours of pain-free sleep. When the pain- 
killing effect of the laughter wore off, we would switch 
on the motion-picture projector again, and, not infre- 
quently, it would lead to another pain-free sleep interval. 
Sometimes, the nurse read to me out of a trove of humor 
books. Especially useful were E. B. and Katharine 
White’s Subtreasury of American Humor and Max 
Eastman’s The Enjoyment of Laughter. 
RS SA 
SI 
DE IE ES 
TE 
ETE IT ESSE ILE LIE SESE LE IEEE LIE ESET EE DELETES LD, 
Take This Book 
to the Hospital With You 
When hurt, maybe dying, who doesn’t tend to kowtow to 
someone who offers to make everything OK again? The 
illness of modern medicine is that it abuses this time of 
natural deference. It has forgotten that the patient is part 
of the cure. Take This Book stridently urges all bodies to 
restore their roles in the healing wards. Take this book to 
the hospital with you and you’‘ll make yourself a better 
patient, your doctor a better doctor, and your hospital 
a better place to get well. 
—Kevin Kelly 
Don’t allow yourself to be admitted on a nonemergency 
basis on a Friday afternoon or evening. You will just lan- 
guish, expensively and in no particular comfort, until 
Monday. Most of the labs that would be performing your 
diagnostic workup don’t do those things on weekends. 
Wait until Monday; better yet, Tuesday, some experts 
say. By Tuesday, the hospital is back in gear after the 
weekend, and the end-of-the-week blahs haven’t hit yet. 
The Home Alternative to 
Hospitals and Nursing Homes 
A hospital isn’t a good place to get well; intuition tells you 
that, and statistics agree. But caring for someone at home 
ain’t easy — how does a person go about doing that? 
This book will get you started with the basics: fitting the 
patient into your schedule, setting up the home for the 
job, and dealing with professional assistance. And of course 
there are instructions for the hard work of actual care: 
bedpans, bathing, bedsores, diet, pills, and all the other 
things that most people would rather not think about ex- 
cept that now they have to. For most folks, the effort will 
be worth it both physically and financially. 
—JB 
Home-Care Basic #8: Cast Care That’s Foolproof 
Physicians apply plaster casts to keep particular body parts 
in proper position. Casts are placed on arms, ankles, legs, 
and larger body areas such as hips or abdomen. They 
are even applied to broken bones after some surgeries. 
If skin under cast itches do not stick anything inside cast 
to scratch — especially if there are stitches. Watch chil- 
dren to make sure they do not stick foreign objects inside 
casts. Tip: tap on the cast over the itching. Use a blunt 
instrument. Or you can blow air inside with a bulb syringe. 
Rosenberg discovered that doctors, many of whom 
haven't the foggiest idea of what things cost, end up 
unwittingly socking it to their patients. For example, a 
doctor treating a pneumonia caused by gram-negative 
bacteria might go for the new, state-of-the-art antibiotic, 
cefoperazone. A ten-day treatment would cost the ill 
consumer $1,510. But if the doctor went with the equally 
effective antibiotic gentamicin instead, the same job 
would be done at half the price. 
It’s just that doctors don’t know this. They need to learn, 
and your questions can help them do that. Ask if there is 
a less expensive viable alternative to drugs when a doc- 
tor prescribes them. You could save a bundle. 
@ 
In 1983-84, Atlanta-based Equifax Services, Inc. con- 
ducted a 41-state audit of 3,850 hospital bills and found 
errors in 98.1 percent of them. Not just little errors, either. 
The average reduction, after the overcharges were elim- 
inated and the bills retallied, was a whopping $1,254. 
NO-PRESSURE BOX 
No-pressure box: this device lifts blankets and sheets off 
the patient. Get a medium-size cardboard box and cut in 
the shape of a table. Place under bed covers. 
HEALTH 217 
Anatomy of 
an Illness 
Norman Cousins 
1979; 173 pp. 
$5.95 
($7.45 postpaid) from: 
Bantam Books 
W. W. Norton and Co. 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plains, IL 60016 
or Whole Earth Access 
Take This Book 
to the Hospital 
With You 
Charles B. Inlander 
1985; 221 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Rodale Press 
33 East Minor Street 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Home 
Alternative to 
Hospitals and 
Nursing Homes 
Mara B. Covell 
1983; 339 pp. 
$1 5.95 postpaid from: 
Macmillan Publishing Co. 
Order Dept. 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth Access 
