frustrating, and say they do it for their 
family, they’re talking nonsense. 
Stop and ask your family what they want. 
Would your children rather have a Winne- 
bago camper or would they rather have 
time to spend with you and go on a camp- 
ing trip with ordinary sleeping bags and 
tents? Give your family the choice between 
those possessions and the time and peace 
of mind you divert from them to earn 
the possessions. 
Look at a picture of two houses — a glam- 
orous mansion, and a modest home with a 
bicycle near the front door. Which one has 
a happier family? Most people would say 
“T can’t tell,” because we know in our 
hearts money and possessions have nothing 
to do with happiness. 
“M oney is necessary 
for security 
in old age.” 
Michael is blessed with a father who is a 
living contradiction of this. When he was 
65, his father retired from teaching anthro- 
pology and social sciences with a modest 
pension and Social Security income of $300 
a month. He sold his home and belongings, 
bought a van in England, and drove East 
with his wife (Michael’s parents were di- 
vorced 15 years earlier). He got teaching 
jobs along the way and stopped anywhere 
he found interesting. 
They ended up in Malaysia where they 
bought part of an island near Singapore 
for $2,000. They now live with a sandy 
beach, coconut trees, fresh fish, and lots 
of friends, for less than $100 a month. 
They save their money for numerous trips 
to all parts of the world and the U.S. Sur- 
prisingly, they see many of their old friends 
regularly; everyone wants to visit their 
tropical paradise for a vacation. 
In the seven years since Michael’s father 
retired he hasn’t touched his savings. How 
about health care? One of his closest friends 
is chief of a nearby first-class research 
hospital. Friendship is better than money. 
People who are happy in their old age 
have the same qualities as Michael’s father: 
being friendly and flexible. Money makes no 
difference. With friends, especially ones of 
all ages, you can solve problems that other 
people can’t handle. Friends also provide 
vitality, emotional support, and new friends 
— especially valuable after age 75 when 
one out of ten old friends dies each year. 
Flexibility is essential as your body becomes 
less reliable. We all know old people who 
say, “I can’t sleep in that bed, it’s too soft,” 
LIVELIHOOD 
: 
87 
CAREERS 
and “I don’t like to be around those kinds 
of people.” With that attitude, who wants 
to be around them? 
Michael’s mother has lived on her own for 
20 years — always gregarious and flexible. 
Even past seventy, she’s involved in city 
politics, art-related projects, and the ACLU. 
When she visits Michael, his friends insist 
on spending time with her. She travels reg- 
ularly, often invited on global trips for her 
company and knowledge. You don’t hear 
her complaining about discomfort or how 
terrible the world is today. 
How do you prepare for old age and un- 
certainty? By being the kind of person 
other people want to be around. Compe- 
tent, helpful, flexible, curious, generous, 
and experienced in dealing with the world. 
Ae moral 
If you have friends and make an effort to 
be an interesting person, money is irrele- 
vant. However, if you are a loner, rather 
selfish, with narrow interests, then making 
a lot of money may be your only way to 
make it through life. = 
What Color Is Your Parachute? 
e 
In a domain positively viscous with lame books, this 
perennially best-selling guide to job-seeking has no com- 
petition. It is updated annually (that’s impressive), it is 
cheery for a reader who could probably use some cheer, 
and it has sound, detailed advice for an all-important 
task that is well-served with a bit of skill. —Stewart Brand 
e 
Just because the opportunities for higher level jobs or 
careers are harder to uncover, the higher you aim the 
fewer people you will have to compete with — for that 
job. In fact, if you uncover a need which your skills can 
help solve, that organization may well create a brand 
new job for you. This means you will be competing with 
no one, since you will be the sole applicant. 
6 
If you come in to the employer’s office, having done 
your homework first — knowing a lot about yourself, and 
knowing a lot about this organization, any employer that 
you would want to work for, anyway — will be impressed. 
You will stand out from other job-hunters or career- 
changers, as one who is better at solving problems than 
the others. Because, obviously, you went about solving 
this 
problem — the job-hunt — in such a thorough and 
professional way. 
The importance of sending a thank you letter to everyone 
is one of the most essential steps in the entire job-hunt. 
Yet it is the most overlooked step in the entire process. We 
know of one woman who was told she was hired because 
she was the only interviewee, out of 39, who sent a 
thank you letter after the interview. 
That's right, the thank you letter may actually get you 
the job. You cannot afford to think of this as simply an 
optional exercise. It is critical to your getting hired. 
e 
You can’t decide what you want from a job until you’re 
clear on what you want from life. 
What Color Is 
Your Parachute? 
Richard Nelson Bolles 
1986; 397 pp. 
$8.95 
($9.95 postpaid) from: 
Ten Speed Press 
P. O. Box 7123 
Berkeley, CA 94707 
or Whole Earth Access 
You must 
identify the 
persons who 
have the power 
to hire you 
and show them 
how your skills 
can help them 
with their 
problems. 
