HEALTH 
242 
Nutrition 
and Physical 
Degeneration 
Weston A. Price, D.D.S. 
1945, 1970; 526 pp. 
$27.50 
($29.50 postpaid) from: 
Cancer Book House 
Cancer Control Society 
2043 North Berendo St. 
Los Angeles, CA 90027 
Prevention 
Robert Rodale, Editor 
$13.97 /year 
(12 issues) from: 
Prevention 
33 East Minor Street 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
Nutrition in 
Clinical Practice 
Marion Nestle, Ph.D. 
1985; 328 pp. 
$16.95 
($18.55 postpaid) from: 
Jones Medical Publications 
355 Los Cerros Drive 
Greenbrae, CA 94904 
NUTRITION 
Nutrition and 
Physical Degeneration 
Of all the books written on nutrition, | 
still find this the 
most interesting. Dr. Price was a practicing dentist who 
noticed the marked decline in his young patients’ health 
and dental condition. In 1930, he began a 150,000-mile 
trek around the globe seeking out healthy primitive 
peoples whose teeth (and health) were excellent. In his 
book 14 tribal diets are completely examined, diets which 
give their people almost perfect dental and physical health. 
Wondertully, each diet is radically different from the 
other. What is consistent is not the foods, their proportion 
or kind, but the fact that each of the diets is completely 
indigenous and totally derived from a direct relationship 
to the person’s environment. The Gaels of the Outer Heb- 
rides ate little but fish, oats, barley, and some seaweed. 
The Kikuyus of Africa ate primarily sweet potatoes, corn, 
beans, and bananas. While the Indians of the Pelly 
mountain country in northwest Canada ate almost solely 
wild animals. 
In contrast to the racial stock that was eating indigenous 
foods, Price sought out a neighboring tribe or group that 
had been exposed to foods of western civilization, particu- 
larly refined foods such as flour, sugar, as well as canned 
foods and meats. The comparisons between the “‘control’’ 
and the newly civilized group invariably showed a rapid 
deterioration of teeth, malocclusion, a rise in infectious 
diseases, and even more startling, a rapid change in the 
skeletal and racial characteristics that are supposedly 
genetic. Flat-nosed Indians had aquiline noses within two 
Wherever 
the native foods 
have been displaced by the 
imported foods, dental caries 
becomes rampant. (Above) a 
typical modernized Tahitian. 
Polynesians are a beautiful 
race and physically sturdy. 
They have straight hair and 
their color is often that of a 
sun tanned European. They 
have perfect dental arches. 
generations, and sinus trouble as well. New Zealand 
Maori would not only find that their dental arches would 
narrow, but that their pelvic arches would contract caus- 
ing pain, injury, and even death at childbirth. Again, 
Price found these changes within one generation of 
change in diet. 
All of the foods grown and gathered by primitives were 
taken and analyzed. While diets differed widely, all were 
high in protein, vitamins, and minerals. Corresponding 
foods grown by primitives were in many cases 10-50 
times as high in minerals as the similar foods in our own 
culture. Just as important was the observation that when 
primitive peoples reverted back to their original diets, 
their health improved, dental caries halted, and the 
physiology of their offspring resembled again their racial 
origins. He never found a healthy child that wasn’t breast 
fed. No book written since has as effectively demon- 
strated the relationship between good health, nutrition, 
and the environment. 
—Paul Hawken 
SSS 
DSSS 
DSS 
ST 
SPSS 
TS 
Prevention 
They put it so homely, have been at it so long (38 years), 
and have been right so often, that you can’t ignore Pre- 
vention when talking about nutrition and health, even 
though they seem to recycle the same stories over and 
over again. (““SELENIUM: A Critical Mineral’’). You'll 
have to wade through a tide of vitamin supplement ads to 
LAN 
A 
TE 
IS 
TTR) 
Nutrition in Clinical Practice 
All around, the most levelheaded scientific treatment 
of nutrition — a field rife with unbalanced theories. 
Cautious, yet open minded. A good clear summary 
for students. 
—Michael Lerner 
@ 
Hair analysis 
The idea that minerals are incorporated into growing 
hair in proportion to their levels in the body has led to 
the widespread use of high energy emission techniques 
to evaluate trace mineral status. The proportionality of 
dietary intake and hair concentration, however, has yet 
to be established for a single essential nutrient. 
Nutrition Action 
The Center for Science in the Public Interest (CSPI), a 
pro-consumer lobbying group, publishes some of the most 
useful consumer materials on the subject of food and 
nutrition. Ask them for a sample copy of their newsletter, 
Nutrition Action, and their catalog of books and compu- 
ter programs. My own personal favorite is their Nutrition 
Scoreboard ($3.95), a kitchen wall poster which lists 
“health scores”’ for dozens of different kinds of foods. This 
Despite Tofutti’s oft-repeated claim to be a “‘tofu frozen dessert’’ 
and its maker Tofu Time’s ads showing the product surrounded by 
chunks of tofu, Tofutti doesn’t contain enough tofu to shake a chop- 
stick at. The product contains less than 10 percent tofu, according 
to soyfood-industry insiders, and probably much, much less. 
get to the interesting news, but in recent years, as they 
explore new medical territory such as diet and the im- 
mune system, it’s worth the trip. 
—Kevin Kelly 
Magnesium. Much of the Western world doesn’t 
get 
enough magnesium, and the result could be a higher inci- 
dence of heart disease and hypertension. That’s because 
many areas are served by a soft-water drinking supply, 
which lacks the magnesium content of hard water. Mag- 
nesium plays a part in keeping your heart muscle beat- 
ing rhythmically. 
People living in hard-water areas may bemoan the fact 
that their soap won't lather as readily. On the other 
hand, the incidence of heart-disease-related death is 
10.1 percent lower there than in soft-water regions, ac- 
cording to the journal Magnesium (vol. 4, no.1). 
We know that our minds can regulate our behavior. We 
almost always decide consciously how we want to act. 
But now there’s a good possibility that we can also 
decide consciously how well an important part of our 
immune system is going to function. 
is the expert to consult when making out your shopping 
list. If you are committed to healthy eating, you should 
consider becoming a member of CSPI. 
—Tom Ferguson, MD 
Nutrition Action 
Healthletter 
Michael Jacobson, Editor 
$20/year 
(10 aaey 
Catalog 
free 
Both from: 
Center for Science in the 
Public Interest 
1501 16th Street NW 
Washington, DC 20036 
