WHOLE SYSTEMS 
SKY WATCHING 
Sunsets, twilights, and 
evening skies: Aden and 
Marjorie Meinel, 1983; 163 
pp. $32.50 postpaid from 
Cambridge University Press, 
510 North Avenue, New 
Rochelle, NY 10801. 
or Whole Earth Access 
December 15 
Night Star. 
WINTER SE 
—Skyguide 
Sunsets, twilights, and 
evening skies 
Is it intimations of a gorgeous death, or revelling in the 
seamless gradation of blazing horizon to a starry dark, 
or the lifelong scout for the green flash that keeps us go- 
ing and gazing on sunsets? Part of the attraction surely is 
the spectacular variety. This book’s color photos and 
clear explanations can serve as a sort of field guide of 
twilight special effects — green flashes, noctilucent 
clouds, zodiacal light, volcanic dust leading to Bishop’s 
rings and blue suns, and the Earth’s own shadow climb- 
ing the fading eastern sky. Is there a more universal 
ceremony of planethood than watching the sun set and, 
by profound implication, rise? 
—Stewart Brand 
Convoluted rocket trail seen from El Centro, California. 
Sky Watching 
Learning the identity of those uncountable twinkling points 
in the night sky can be a daunting task without a guide. 
Books are a good place fo start. That’s where you'll find 
out the names of the constellations (and how they got 
them), where and when to look, and what you’re really 
looking at (e.g., that “‘star’’ is actually an enormous 
galaxy comprising billions of stars). Skyguide is a good 
one, done in the usual Golden Field Guide manner. It’s 
concentrated in northern midlatitudes but is useable south 
of the equator, too. The charts are big enough to see at 
night by flashlight. 
Guidebooks are a bit awkward when you’re actually out- 
doors looking; there are a number of adjustable charts 
that can help. The Night Sky Star Dial has won praise 
from astronomy buffs because its two-sided design man- 
ages to reduce distortion and look more like the real 
sky. Sky Challenger is a star finder with six interchange- 
able dials designed to interest children: an introduction, 
‘“‘Binocular Treasure Hunt,’’ “’Where Are The Planets2,’’ 
“‘Native American Constellations, ’’ and ‘Star Clock.’’ 
Night Star is an eight-inch flexible plastic dome that can 
be set to your exact location anywhere on earth. Minimal 
distortion and the accompanying booklet make it excep- 
tionally easy to use. 
If you'd like a zoo-guide voice in your Walkman telling 
you what you’re looking at, try Tapes Of The Night Sky. 
The two tapes give four 25-minute tours of the sky — one 
for each season — with pauses built in to give you a 
chance fo follow the instructions. Comes with maps. 
And there is software. Tell Star II is the most popular one. 
It gives you a planetarium view without having to look at 
the real thing — an advantage if the weather is bad or 
you wish to investigate the skies over where you aren’t. 
Good for beginners. You can get a four-page annotated 
list of astronomy software for the most popular home 
computers from Astronomical Society of the Pacific. 
So what’s happening in the sky this month? The constel- 
lations change seasonally, but there are events such as 
meteor showers and comets that aren’t shown on charts. 
A good way to keep current is with the Abrams Planetar- 
ium Sky Calendar or with the calendar published monthly 
in the excellent Sky and Telescope magazine. 
Stunning slides and posters of celestial objects are avail- 
able from Hansen Planetarium and the Astronomical 
Society of the Pacific. 
—JB 
[All the above suggested by Andrew Fraknoi, Executive 
Officer of the Astonomical Society of the Pacific] 
Skyguide: Mark R. Chartrand Ill, 1982; 280 pp. $7.95 
($8.95 postpaid) from Western Publishing Company! 
Dept. M, P. O. Box 700, Racine, WI 53401. 
The Night Sky Star Dial: $3.25 (information free) from David 
Chandler Company, P. O. Box 309, LaVerne, CA 91750. 
Sky Challenger: $8.95 postpaid from Discovery Corner/ 
Lawrence Hall of Science, University of California, Berkeley, 
CA 94720. 
Night Star: $47.50 (information free) from Night Star Com- 
pany, 1334 Brommer St., Santa Cruz, CA 95062. 
Tapes Of The Night Sky: $15.45 (information free) from 
Astronomical Society of the Pacific/Catalogue Dept., 1290 
24th Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94122 
Tell Star Il: $79.95 (information free) from Spectrum 
Holobyte, 1050 Walnut Street, #325, Boulder, 
CO 80302. 
Abrams Planetarium Sky Calendar: $5/year (4 issues) from 
Sky Calendar / Abrams Planetarium, Michigan State Univer- 
sity, East Lansing, MI 48824. 
Sky and Telescope: Leif J. Robinson, Editor. $20/year (12 
issues) from Sky and Telescope, 49 Bay State Road, 
Cambridge, MA 02238-1290. 
Hansen Planetarium: Catalog free from 1098 South 200 
West, Salt Lake City, UT 84104. 
Astronomical Society of the Pacific: Astronomy Software 
Annotated List $1 (information free); both from A.S.P., 1290 
24th Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94122. 
Questar Telescope 
—Sky and 
Telescope 
Saturn with three moons. 
—Hansen Planetarium 
Buying a Telescope 
Buying a good telescope is similar to buying a good cam- 
era or car: it’s worth doing some research. There are 
many different types of telescopes and even within the 
same type, quality and price can vary widely. The No- 
vember 1985 issue of Consumer Reports had an excellent 
evaluation of amateur telescopes, giving specific brand 
names (check your library). 
Another helpful source with more information about what 
each type of telescope does best is the nontechnical pam- 
phlet Selecting Your First Telescope: Sherwood Harring- 
ton, 1982; 12 pp., $2 donation from A.S.P./Info Packets 
Dept., 1290 24th Ave., San Francisco, CA 94122. 
—Andrew Fraknoi 
