Patterns 
of Culture 
Ruth Benedict 
1934, 1959; 291 pp. 
$8.70 
($9.70 postpaid) from: 
Houghton Mifflin Co. 
Mail Order Dept. 
Wayside Road 
Burlington, MA 01803 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Savage Mind 
Claude Levi-Strauss 
1968; 290 pp. 
$10.95 postpaid from: 
University of Chicago Press 
11030 South Langley Ave. 
Chicago, IL 60628 
or Whole Earth Access 
Cultural Survival 
Quarterly 
Jason Clay, Ph.D., Editor 
S 20 /year 
(4 issues) from: 
Cultural Survival, Inc. 
11 Divinity Avenue 
Cambridge, MA 02138 
Ice fishing with nets, Kobuk 
Valley National Park. 
©National Park Service 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
ANTHROPOLOGY 
vif ey 
Qs 
Ay 
Hae. 
Patterns of Culture 
Years go by and still no book replaces Patterns of Culture. 
The graceful contrasts of human life. The reminder to 
reflect on our cultural prejudices before judging another 
tribe. Unique anthropology by a unique woman. 
—Peter Warshall 
Later, traditionally when the boy is about fourteen and 
old enough to be responsible, he is whipped again by 
even stronger masked gods. It is at this initiation that the 
kachina mask is put upon his head, and it is revealed to 
him that the dancers, instead of being the supernaturals 
from the Sacred Lake, are in reality his neighbours and 
his relatives. After the final whipping, the four tallest 
boys are made to stand face to face with the scare ka- 
chinas who have whipped them. The priests lift the masks 
from their heads and place them upon the heads of the 
boys. It is the great revelation. The boys are terrified. 
The yucca whips are taken from the hands of the scare 
kachinas and put in the hands of the boys who face 
them, now with the masks upon their heads. They are 
commanded to whip the kachinas. It is their first object 
lesson in the truth that they, as mortals, must exercise 
all the functions which the uninitiated ascribe to the 
supernaturals themselves. 
The Savage Mind 
The formidable Levi-Strauss parses the logic of totemism 
— native science based on deepest familiarity with fellow 
species and ritual celebration of mutual dependency. He 
gestures in detail at the dramatic life awaiting souls will- 
ing to bear totemic relation to the life around them. 
—Stewart Brand 
The Savage Mind is uncanny: revealing our primitive 
thought as much as tribal peoples’. You end up wonder- 
ing who’s the dunce. 
—Peter Warshall 
A native thinker makes the penetrating comment that 
“All sacred things must have their place.’’ (Fletcher) 
It could even be said that being in their place is what 
makes them sacred for if they were taken out of their 
place, even in thought, the entire order of the universe 
would be destroyed. Sacred objects therefore contribute 
to the maintenance of order in the universe by occupying 
the places allocated to them. Examined superficially and 
from the outside, the refinements of ritual can appear 
Cultural Survival 
Homogenization is consuming even the most isolated 
indigenous cultures on the planet. Can the languages of 
threatened cultures be saved? Can indigenous people 
share game parks where white men come to play? Is the 
drug trade crucial to some tribal people’s cultural sur- 
vival? Does ‘education’ really mean loss of identity? 
Cultural Survival is an organization of concerned anthro- 
pologists and other citizens trying to preserve threatened 
cultures and explore ways in which native peoples can 
accommodate fo the twentieth century without too great a 
loss of their own uniqueness. Their magazine, Cultural 
Survival Quarterly, provides thorough coverage of their 
efforts. 
—Peter Warshall 
@ 
It is difficult for an Eskimo who has spent his entire life 
surviving in the Arctic to understand the motives of 
someone who has traveled thousands of miles to float 
down a river in a rubber boat. Some recreational users 
pointless. They are explicable by a concern for what one 
might call ‘‘micro-adjustment’’ — the concern to assign 
every single feature, object or creature to a place within 
a class. 
The natives themselves are sometimes acutely aware of 
the ‘‘concrete’”’ nature of their science and contrast it 
sharply with that of the whites: 
“’We know what the animals do, what are the needs of 
the beaver, the bear, the salmon, and other creatures, 
because long ago men married them and acquired this 
knowledge from their animal wives. Today the priests say 
we lie, but we know better. The white man has been only 
a short time in this country and knows very little about 
the animals; we have lived here thousands of years and 
were taught long ago by the animals themselves. The 
white man writes everything down in a book so that it 
will not be forgotten; but our ancestors married the 
animals, learned all their ways, and passed on the 
knowledge from one generation to another.’’ (Jenness) 
cannot understand why hundreds of caribou are killed 
each fall on a very short stretch of river (Onion Portage) 
in a National Park. There are many subsistence activities 
that are critical enough or sensitive enough that recrea- 
tionists blundering through or a research helicopter fly- 
ing over could easily disrupt the activity and possibly 
result in a serious reduction of the winter’s food supply 
for a village. Sport hunting methods and purposes don’t 
usually coincide with subsistence hunting practices. 
r 
When David and Pia Maybury-Lewis visited the Shavante 
Indians in 1956, they had only just established peaceful 
contact with Brazilian society. They were hunters and 
gatherers who spent little time in their slash-and-burn 
gardens where beans, squashes and maize were planted. 
Children learned without formal schooling, by watching 
their elders. There were no doctors or nurses. 
When the Maybury-Lewises revisited the Shavante in 
1982 they found dramatic changes. The Indians were no 
longer nomadic. Their lands had been guaranteed after 
a bitter fight and they were dependent upon agriculture, 
practicing tractor-driven rice farming. Yet their villages 
maintained their traditional layouts: beehive huts ar- 
ranged in a semicircle or in concentric semicircles. Most 
of their villages had schools with several teachers. Two 
villages had infirmaries and smaller ones were visited 
regularly by a nurse. 
ELE LT IE ET TEE BE 
ESTEE LL EESTI ETE SEES SITES 
TIE TT TET 
* See The Forest People (p. 58) and The Mountain People 
(p. 59). 
e For an excellent introduction to kinship and marriage pat- 
terns (more diverse and careful than you'd believe) see: 
Kinship and Marriage: Robin Fox, 1984; 228 pp. $8.95 
postpaid from Cambridge University Press, 510 North 
Avenue, New Rochelle, NY 10801. 
