Natural History Magazine 
| use it two ways: The monthly column ‘‘This View of Life’’ 
by Stephen Jay Gould, who teaches Biology, Geology 
and History of Science at Harvard, regularly contributes 
to (or at least soundly reaffirms) my understanding of how 
the world works. He explains fundamental issues clearly 
and always sets them against a background of why any- 
one ever thought differently. Second, it is written and 
SCIENCE MAGAZINES 
edited in such a way that our children seem fo get as 
much out of it as we do. It is one of the few publications 
we've found that has this quality. 
A good magazine at a 
good price from a great institution. 
—George Putz 
< 
Every July in southwestern Alaska, the chum salmon 
migrate up the McNeil River to spawn, and every brown 
bear for miles around shows up to catch them. The short 
northern summer is ending, and the bears are putting on 
the poundage to carry them through their hibernations. 
They converge on the McNeil and they eat, and they 
eat, and they eat. 
It is the largest known gathering of brown bears in the 
world. As many as fifty may be in sight at any given time, 
eating, sleeping, or walking around. Dominant bears 
take the best fishing spots; when they’ve had their fill, 
lower-ranked bears can come in. Coastal brown bears 
belong to the same species as upland grizzlies, but 
bears living near the water tend to be larger — up to 
a thousand pounds. 
The Ecologist 
Edited by the ebullient Teddy Goldsmith, this British mag 
is a nice mix of careful and radical. It has a strong point 
of view, lots of good ideas, and considerable effect. 
—Stewart Brand 
Since the late 1970s, and with increasing severity, a new 
phenomenon leading to the dying and death of its for- 
ests has been sweeping across Europe. Although some 
species appear to be more resistant than others, one by 
one they are succumbing — spruce, pine, fir, beech, oak, 
ash, rowan — and if the pace of death continues large 
tracts of once forested areas will soon be virtually 
denuded of trees. 
Whether the phenomenon of forest death — waldsterben 
as the West Germans call it — will spread to all wood- 
lands and forests throughout Europe is a moot point. The 
rapidity with which the disease has struck trees first in 
one forested area and then another is extremely distur- 
bing, and a forest that shows few signs of damage one 
year may present a very different picture one or two 
years later when as many as half the trees may be suf- 
fering die-back. . . 
. The political ramifications of a 
disease pattern that appears to correspond to atmos- 
pheric pollution fall-out are clearly very great. 
Is this the future? The hill top of the Hornisgrinde in the 
Black Forest littered with dead fir and spruce. 
RRR aT 
EN aT IES 
I eI 
OT RA ND ED BSNL AS DEE ET EE 
e As we go to press, there seems to be vigorous corporate 
takeover action affecting several of the science magazines, 
and we can’t tell yet whether the information on these two 
pages is still valid as you read it. Our apologies. 
® Discover is another layperson’s explain-it science mag- 
azine that enjoys a wide following. 
Discover: Gil Rogin, Editor. $24/year (12 issues) from Time 
Inc., 541 North Fairbanks Court, Chicago, IL 60611. 
Audubon 
It’s for the birds, but not just — protection of all life is now 
the official business of the Audubon Society (see p. 87). 
The magazine is slick and well-produced with gorgeous 
photographs and graphics enhanced by a high editorial 
standard. Like other upscale nature publications, Audubon 
is having an interesting time balancing nature conserva- 
tion with the conservative nature of many Society members. 
—JB 
Audubon 
Les Line, Editor 
$30/year 
(membership included) 
(6 issues) from: 
National Audubon Society 
Membership Data Center 
P. O. Box 2666 
Boulder, CO 80322 
Scientific American 
The patriarch of science magazines is more into explanation 
and less into news. Article difficulty is about max for a 
nonprofessional reader in whatever subject (almost 
anything!) is being discussed. Book reviews and drawings 
are exceptional. 
DERMAL GLAND DUCT (dark 
circle) is surrounded by chitin 
fibers in this micrograph of the 
endocuticle of the scorpion 
Hadrurus arizonensis, photo- 
graphed from the underside 
and enlarged roughly 4,500 
times. The helicoid arrange- 
Scientific 
American 
ment of fibers allows the cuticle Jonathan Piel, Editor 
to withstand stress that might 
2 
otherwise lead to cracking. The $ 4lyear 
micrograph is from Barry K. 
Filshie of the Commonwealth 
Scientific and Industrial 
Research Organization in 
Australia. 
(12 issues) from: 
Scientific American 
P. O. Box 5919 
New York, NY 10164-0411 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 27 
Natural History 
Alan Ternes, Editor 
$20/year 
(12 issues) from: 
Natural History 
P. O. Box 5000 
Harlan, |A 51537 
To create their winter 
larder, acorn woodpeckers 
drill out storage cells in 
trees and poles. One pine 
tree contained 50,000 
imbedded acorns. 
—Audubon 
The Ecologist 
Edward Goldsmith, 
Nicholas Hildyard, 
and Peter Bunyard, 
Editors 
$20 /year 
(6 issues) from: 
The Ecologist 
Subscription Dept. 
Worthyvale Manor Farm 
Camelford, Cornwall 
PL32 9TT U.K. 
