HEALTH 
212 
A Handbook 
for the Disabled 
Suzanne Lunt 
1984; 276 pp. 
DISABLED 
HE BEST SOURCE OF INFORMATION on any particular disability is someone who has had 
that disability for a few years. 
Occupational therapists are another good source, but don’t let the “experts” make decisions for 
you. Ask questions. Beware of rumors of medical or-engineering wonders and never buy anything 
unless you’ve used it, preferably at home. When dealing with agencies, firmly tell them what you want. 
Don’t let doctors, salespeople, or the U.S. government intimidate you. 
—Mark O’Brien 
A Handbook for the Disabled 
A comprehensive guide to devices (store-bought and 
homemade) and agencies for paralyzed and temporarily 
bedridden people. Lunt thoroughly researched this book 
and has included manufacturers’ addresses. This is the 
only book I’ve seen that discusses both equipment and 
agencies. My only qualm is that she calls disabled people 
Side-cutter fork: Adds moderate cutting ability to edge of 
fork; will not injure mouth; cuts most foods, but not all 
meats. (About 
$10, Help Yourself Aids.) 
@ 
Some tips from a disabled driver: 
To lock and unlock passenger door from driver’s seat: 
Keep a length of wood 2412” long and 1” wide, 
$9.95 
postpaid from: 
MacMillan Publishing Co. 
Order Dept. 
notched at the end. 
|
To hold lid of trunk open on windy days: Keep another 
stick 50’’ long and 1%"’ wide in the trunk. 
To pull things forward that have slid to back of trunk: 
Keep a cane in the trunk and use the curved end to pull 
things forward. 
“‘patients,’’ an inappropriate word for people who are 
not living in a hospital. 
—Mark O’Brien 
Reading this book made me realize how many unsung 
Front and Brown Streets 
heroes are working in their basements, inventing new 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
problem-solvers for the disabled. 
—Sallie Tisdale 
or Whole Earth Access 
® 
Automatic fork: 8Y2 inches; handles, when squeezed, 
cause metal plate to slide down and push food off tines. 
(About $4, American Foundation for the Blind.) 
To support your right arm while driving: Pad a small 
wooden box by gluing sheet foam to it. Place it on the 
seat at your right side. 
The Wheelchair Child 
| wish my parents could have had a book like this when | 
became disabled in the ‘50s. Russell, who has a disabled 
. 
child, speaks from experience and she’s had all the exper- 
La 
iences that come with raising a kid who uses a wheelchair. 
{ 
In direct language, she offers advice on the education, 
SSS 
clothing, recreation, and socialization that disabled chil- 
dren need. Russell is British, so about half of her practical 
advice applies only to people in the U.K. Her advice on 
dealing with problems like sibling jealousy, parent burnout, 
and sexuality is universally applicable. 
—Mark O’Brien 
@ 
Many handicapped girls are convinced that they will 
never get pregnant, and are woefully ignorant of the 
symptoms of pregnancy if it should happen. Some parents 
might contend that the subject was better left alone, 
because of embarrassment and because of the relaxation 
of restrictions on abortion facilities. But this attitude ignores 
the fact that many handicapped girls will desperately 
want a child of their own. Childbearing will prove their 
normality and identity as 
a woman — a healthy child will 
to some extent diminish their own feeling of disability 
and will also be seen as a source of love and attention. 
Needless to say, agreement to an abortion wiil be very 
difficult and filled with emotional problems in a case 
of this kind. 
ez ANaRa. 
K 
Hand-propelled tricycles 
are popular with children 
between four and ten years 
of age. Most can be ridden 
7 in braces and havea 
range of foot and 
back rests. 
—The Wheelchair 
Child 
Other Product Sources 
: 
A computer databank listing all commercially available 
Hugh 
items for disabled people, ABLEDATA includes everything 
on a grade 
The Wheelchair 
— clothing, wheelchairs, speech synthesizers. It can be 
5.12 climb. 
Child 
searched by computer or you can make voice requests. 
pubes Rue 
Products For People With Vision Problems is a fascinating 
Res: 
i 
Pp. 
catalog that features a wide-range of useful products for 
* Sports from a wheelchair and all sorts of chairs built with 
$9.95 
blind and vision-impaired people. 
—Mark O’Brien 
"acing bicycle technology are what this lively magazine is 
BPO The March/April ‘86 issue has a survey of available 
chairs. 
Sports and Spokes: Nancy Crase, Editor. $8/year (6 issues) 
from Sports and Spokes, 5201 North 19th Avenue, Phoenix, 
AZ 85015-9986. 
postpaid from: 
Prentice-Hall Press 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
or Whole Earth Access 
ABLEDATA: Information free from NARIC, 4407 Eighth 
Street NW, Washington, D.C. 20017; 1/800/34-NARIC 
(TDD and voice). 
Products for People with Vision Problems: Catalog free 
from American Foundation for the Blind/Customer Service 
Division, 15 W. 16th Street, New York, NY 10011. 
