370 
The Use and 
Training of the 
Human Voice 
Arthur Lessac 
1967; 320 pp. 
($13.75 postpaid) from: 
Drama Book Publishers 
821 Broadway 
New York, NY 10003 
or Whole Earth Access 
Language 
Acquisition 
Made Practical 
E. Thomas Brewster and 
Elizabeth S. Brewster 
1976; 384 pp. 
$12 
postpaid from: 
Lingua House 
135 North Oakland 
P. O. Box 91 
Pasadena, CA 91182 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Overnight 
Guide to 
Public Speaking 
Ed Wohlmuth 
1983; 128 pp. 
$9.95 
($10.95 postpaid) from: 
Running Press 
125 South 22nd Street 
Philadelphia, PA 19103 
or Whole Earth Access 
LEARNING 
SPEECH 
The Use and Training of 
the Human Voice 
Everything you need to understand, train, improve, and 
enjoy your voice is here in this wonderful book. Lessac’s 
method is uncomplicated and precise . 
. 
. a. basic system 
for actors, speakers, singers, everyone who uses the voice 
as an instrument beyond simple communication. 
One of the best features of Lessac’s approach is the 
way he relates the voice to general health and the total 
person. Many people who never get near a stage or a 
microphone can use the book to make real gains in self- 
awareness and well-being. 
Best of all, perhaps, the book is designed for self-teaching. 
It takes nothing for granted, but exposes every vital 
aspect of the use and training of the voice. —Scott Beach 
When the voice is properly used, the tones are consciously 
transmitted through the hard palate, the nasal bone, the 
sinuses, and the forehead. Some of the sound waves con- 
tinue on through the frontal sinuses, cranial bone, spine, 
and ribs, to produce chest resonance, but the conscious 
action takes places in these four areas of the head and 
the more tonal action felt in these structures, the greater 
the chest resonance. When sound is transmitted in this 
way, we feel the vibratory-tonal actions. 
Language Acquisition 
Made Practical 
This superb handbook trains you to learn any language 
in the world on your own, in the language’s home turf. 
The trick is to teach native speakers to teach you to learn 
their language. Comprende? It’s done slowly, naturally, 
and playfully — the way you learned English. Your assis- 
tant doesn’t even have to dig your jive. You begin conver- 
sing with one word, trying to make as many mistakes as 
you possibly can, entertaining the folks in the market- 
place or anywhere else they‘Il put up with your blabber- 
ings. This well-tested program shows you how to construct 
your own exercises that fit the language you are after and 
later how to discover its grammar by yourself. The goal is 
multiculturalism, inseparable from multilingualism. Like 
realizing that you don’t need a degree in anything to 
build your own house, learning that you can become fluent 
in another language without schools is deliciously radical. 
—Kevin Kelly 
By using these sentence patterns you can get extra drill 
on new vocabulary while talking with people. You can 
touch an object and ask ‘’What is this?’’ They may 
answer, ‘’This is a Kefala.’’ You can then touch a similar 
object and ask “‘Is this a Kefala?’’ and they will answer 
positively or negatively. 
If you are talking with children, this can become quite 
a game and give you lots of practice with new words. 
Children will often catch on, and participate with you 
in the game. First, you can ask the questions while they 
answer. Then you can trade roles and let them ask the 
questions while you try to answer. If you enter into the 
spirit of the game, everybody can have fun while you 
practice vocabulary. 
To prepare for a Comprehension drill, you need to plan 
a list of related activities and have Kino make up a 3 x 5 
card with the activities written in his language. The activ- 
ities for the first day might include sit, stand, squat 
down, clap your hands, scratch your leg, stretch your 
arms. In the drill, Kino will instruct you in his language to 
do an activity; for example, ‘stand up.”’ He will stand 
up and you observe and then mimic the action by standing 
yourself. Do not say what he says. Kino then introduces 
the second item, performing the activity while giving the 
verbal instructions. You mimic the activity — for example, 
“sit down.’’ Kino then again gives the first instruction, 
‘stand up,’’ and you respond by standing. Then Kino 
can give the instructions without acting them out himself 
— “sit down,”’ ‘’stand up,’’ and you respond to his 
verbal directions. When doing comprehension drills, re- 
spond rapidly without hesitation and make a distinct 
robust response with your body. 
The Overnight Guide 
to Public Speaking 
You can read this book overnight. Ed Wohlmuth’s advice, 
delivered in a breezy, optimistic style, will help your 
speech. His approach is a bit “show biz,’’ but you can 
modify that element to your own taste. When | had to 
give a three hour class recently | followed his suggestions, 
which included revising my remarks into a more informal 
style, consciously inserting some “‘signals’’ into the 
presentation and corraling a friend into letting me prac- 
tice my talk on him the night before. Result: The class 
went well and everyone enjoyed themselves, including 
me. This book works. 
—Jay Kinney 
Once your facts are assembled, their method of presen- 
tation becomes crucial. People have a great interest in 
people, not things. The black musician’s name was 
James Reese Europe, and he probably invented the style 
of popular music we call the fox-trot. | think that’s cer- 
tainly more interesting than the name of the library 
where | found his concert booklet. Try to relate your 
facts to actual individuals, living or dead. Always tell 
what the person did in terms that describe action. He 
invented that musical style. She discovered that chemical 
element. That’s the stuff that'll involve your audience. 
Audio-Forum 
Don’t expect to learn a language by listening to tapes. 
The best you can expect from cassettes is tireless practice, 
at your convenience, of what you learn from a class or 
tutor. Audio-Forum has the best selection of courses, 
including a well respected crash course called “‘Lan- 
guage/30.’’ Some of the full-length courses were 
originally developed by the U.S. Foreign Service Institute. 
All come with a text book (essential) in a cacophonous 
selection of languages: Zulu, Xhosa, Serbo-Croatian, 
eight dialects of Arabic, Urdu, Khmer, and of course, 
good ole Spanish and French. 
—Kevin Kelly 
Audio- 
Forum 
Catalog 
free from: 
Audio-Forum 
96 Broad 
Street 
Suite A-30 
Guilford, 
CT 06437 
