COMMUNITY 
92 
The New State of 
The World Atlas 
Michael Kidron 
and Ronald Segal 
1984; 172 pp. 
$10.95 
postpaid from: 
Simon & Schuster 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
or Whole Earth Access 
State of the World 
Lester R. Brown, et al. 
1986; 268 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid 
Worldwatch 
Papers 
Subscription 
$25iyear 
(Includes 5-8 papers 
and the year’s edition 
of State of the World) 
Back issues 
$4 each postpaid 
($3 each for 2-5 copies) 
Both from: 
Worldwatch Institute 
1776 Massachusetts 
Avenue NW 
Washington, DC 20036 
WORLD POLITICS 
SSS 
SS 
SS 
TD 
The New State of the World Atlas 
Put this next to the superb Times Atlas of World History 
(p. 17) as by far the most provocative atlas of contem- 
porary history. Understanding leaps to your eye when 
you survey a map such as ‘’No. 26: A Sort of Survival, ’’ 
where arrows and numbers show the torrents of dislodged 
humans sluicing across continents and oceans (100,000 
from Argentina to Spain since 1976? 130,000 from China 
to Hong Kong in 1979 alone?). Wonder what nations have 
political prisoners, the death penalty, or routine torture? — 
check map No. 25. Wonder where the gold is, the unem- 
ployment, the nuclear weapons, the nuclear reactors, the 
jobs, the separatist movements, education, the worst slums, 
the degrees of inflation, the degrees of population growth, 
the degrees of pollution? 
A fascinating hour here, and all the world news you see 
will begin to make sense. 
(Note: Our black-and-white reproduction does no justice 
to the highly effective color coding in all the maps.) 
—Stewart Brand 
LS 
TLL SE ET 
SN ETS SINT RS a 
a EO 
Worldwatch Institute 
This is the best single source for understanding the 
problems that face our planet. Worldwatch Institute 
examines the kinds of economic and environmental issues 
that politicians by their very nature have a tough time 
grappling with, and it suggests solutions in a politically 
even-handed and unhysterical way. Five to six papers on 
specific subjects are issued yearly and these become an 
annual book called State of the World. —Richard Nilsen 
Tobacco causes more death and suffering among adults 
than any other toxic material in the environment. .. 
. 
‘The worldwide cost in lives now approaches 2.5 million 
per year, almost 5 percent of all deaths. Tobacco kills 13 
times as many Americans as hard drugs do, and 8 times 
as many as automobile accidents. Passive smokers (those 
who must inhale the smoke of others’ cigarettes) are 
perhaps three times likelier to die of lung cancer than 
they would be otherwise. 
—State of the World 
Amnesty International 
It’s always a shock to learn that God is not interested 
in your pain. The best you can hope for is the help of 
other people. 
The use of torture is steadily increasing worldwide. It is 
difficult to find out about and nearly impossible to check. 
So far the only deterrent is public opinion. That requires a 
respected international investigative organization. Amnesty 
International delivers. 
Torture is a runaway phenomenon — far from preventing 
fanaticism, it increases fanaticism, which leads to more tor- 
ture, and so forth. It will not cease until indeed it becomes 
as universally unthinkable as slavery. If we’re going to 
have an intelligence and espionage establishment, let it 
work on this one. 
You can participate in Amnesty International with 
donations, letterwriting campaigns, and attention to their 
various publications. [Amnesty Action, sundry special 
reports, and their book Torture in the Eighties.] 
—Stewart Brand 
Amnesty 
Amnesty 
International 
International 
eaatae 
eee: 
Annual Report 
includes 6 issues o 
. 
Amnesty Action newsletter) 
$1 0.20 postpaid 
Publications list free 
Torture in 
All from: 
the Eighties 
1984; 263 pp. 
$1 0.20 postpaid 
Amnesty International USA 
322 8th Avenue 
New York, NY 10001 
@ 
Paraguay: 
A state of siege has been renewed in Paraguay as a 
matter of routine every three months for the past 29 
years, although since 1978 it has been limited to the 
Central Department. In Amnesty International’s view the 
state of siege, combined with the wide powers of the 
police and the inability of the judiciary to achieve in- 
dependence from the executive, has facilitated the per- 
sistent torture and ill-treatment of political prisoners. 
The government's failure to acknowledge arrests promptly 
and to give information regarding place of detention put 
prisoners at particular risk of torture during early stages 
of detention. Amnesty International has received frequent 
reports of prisoners tortured in unacknowledged deten- 
tion for days or even weeks before being transferred to 
official detention and being allowed visits. 
The methods of torture most commonly alleged to have 
been used were the following: picana electrica (electric 
cattle prod); pileta, where the victim’s head is plunged 
into a tank of water, which is sometimes polluted with ex- 
crement, until a sense of asphyxiation is induced; beatings, 
particularly on soles of feet with truncheons; cajones, 
prolonged confinement in a box or other restricted place 
— positions used are: feto, in which the victim is forced 
to remain for hours at a time in foetal position; the guar- 
dia, where the victim is placed upright in a large box 
with holes to enable him or her to breathe; secadera, 
in which the victim is wrapped in a plastic sheet and 
placed in a metal cylinder; and murcielago, suspending 
the victim by the ankles. 
—Torture in the Eighties 
