Landfall on San Miguel, Azores. ..-@s we approached it took 
shape, the volcanic peaks, the dark green areas of trees, a 
patchwork of tiny fields .. 
. gathered colour and substance’. 
Cruising Under Sail 
The hardcore Whole Earth readership must chaff 
whenever they see a book called essential or ‘‘must 
reading,’ but dammit you can’t know too much about a 
boat at sea if you’re going to be on one. Hiscock has 
spent his entire adult life on them (three boats of his own 
named Wanderer), sailed all seas, and kept his eyes, 
mind, and friendship open the whole while. His books are 
technically complete, redolent with examples, and filled 
with the blood of shared experiences — at least half his 
wisdom comes from the next boat over. Which is another 
thing: there is a kind of fifth world out there sailing, a 
populous, mobile society making the world its neighbor- 
hood and with the self-consciousness and gossip (from the 
German for God's family) to cover it all. 
_—George Putz 
Bare-Boating 
Put your bathing suit back on; this is about how to go 
sailing without owning a boat (or having it own you). 
There are a lot of sailors who'd like to spend their once-a- 
year vacation at sea, but can’t afford to keep a boat the 
rest of the time. Bare-boat charters are for them (us). At 
first, the prices asked seem outrageous, but they’re not if 
you are honest about what it really costs to keep a boat 
in the family. Moreover, if you have some friends (they’d 
better be good ones), you can share the costs down to a 
more reasonable size. This very complete book will help 
you decide what sort of boat you need, how fo get it, how 
to get familiar with it, and where to sail it. Reading this 
is the first step to that Bahamas dream. 
—JB 
Bare-Boating 
Brian M. Fagan 
1985; 276 pp. 
$34.95 
($37.95 postpaid) from: 
International Marine 
Publishing Company 
21 Elm Street 
Camden, ME 04843 
or Whole Earth Access 
Owning a large yacht makes no sense unless you plan to 
sail at least two months a year. You can round the Fastnet 
Rock off southern Ireland in a bareboat, too. 
There is one golden rule for the beginning charterer: Be 
honest about your sailing experience both with yourself 
and the charter company. It is only fair for both of you. 
Self-deception is bound to catch up with you. 
Living Aboard 
If you want to keep your simplicity voluntary, there’s 
nothing like a small mobile home on a large mobile en- 
vironment to enforce it. This is a dense practical guide 
to boat living, the best of its kind. 
—Stewart Brand 
In Florida and California, it is common to see sailboats 
with air conditioners. In the North, our air conditioner 
has always attracted attention when we have used it. 
Most of our other luxuries and comforts can be tolerated 
by the sailboat purists, whose usual attitude is: they can 
e You can learn sailing on tall ships. See Sail Training (p. 374). 
¢ One ot the all-time nautical adventures is the Hornblower 
series depicting British Empire naval adventures at their best. 
The Hornblower Saga: (Volumes 1-6), C.S. Forester, 
1966-1978; 300 pp. $7.95 each ($9.45 each postpaid) from 
Little, Brown and Company, 200 West Street, Waltham, 
MA 02254. 
have it on their boat, but | wouldn’t have it on mine. Use 
of the air conditioner, however, seems to infuriate some 
of these purists, and they speak curtly to us — that is, if 
they speak to us at all. They seem to feel that by install- 
ing an air conditioner in a sailboat we have done some- 
thing to besmirch the grand old tradition of yachting. 
Too bad. Anyone who isn’t a stuffed shirt about sail- 
boats realizes how sensible it really is. 
Since we want our boat to be just as much a sailboat as 
any weekender’s boat, we arrange her so that we can 
go for a sail whenever the mood strikes us. When we 
are at dockside, everything below deck is always stowed 
where it would be stowed if we were under sail. Unless 
we are taking the engine apart or painting, we can be 
underway in 15 minutes, no matter how long we have 
been tied up — and can encounter gale-force winds with 
nothing falling out of place. It has taken us nearly three 
years to achieve this state. We don’t ever want to be like 
the live-aboard couple who had been in a marina for 
over a month and said, ‘’We need a couple of days to 
get everything stowed, then we will be on our way again.” 
NOMADICS 
SAILING 287 
Cruising 
Under Sail 
Eric Hiscock 
1981; 551 pp. 
$19.95 
($22.95 postpaid) from: 
International Marine 
Publishing Company 
21 Elm Street 
Camden, ME 04843 
or Whole Earth Access 
Living Aboard 
Jan and Bill Moeller 
1977; 305 pp. 
$22.50 
($25.50 postpaid) from: 
International Marine 
Publishing Company 
21 Elm Street 
Camden, ME 04843 
or Whole Earth Access 
