COMMUNICATI 
PHOTOG 
320 
The 
Photographer’s 
Handbook 
John Hedgecoe 
1982; 352 pp. 
$18.95 
($19.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
Order Dept. 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
The wallpaper effect of the print is achieved using one neg- 
ative. One exposure was made in the center of the paper 
and developer applied to the area with a cotton swab. Once 
the image had emerged, successive images were positioned, 
exposed and developed — about 30 in all. 
+ Full features at an affordable price - Automatic 
Focusing for sharp pictures * Automatic Exposure under 
any lighting conditions +» 
Automatic Flash with quick, 
five-second recycle > Automatic Film loading, Motorized 
advance and push-button, motorized rewind * Protective body 
design protects lens and locks all functions when closed. Will 
accept new 1000 ASA high speed film. 
ZOOM 
SLIDE DUPLICATOR 
“49” 
Competitive Camera 
The best discount mail order prices on the full spectrum of 
photo and related gear that we’ve been able fo find. Far 
surpasses prices at your local camera shop. Usually, but 
not always, beats the discount competition (which you 
should check anyway: 47th Street Photo, catalog $2, 36 
East 19th Street, NY, NY 10003). 
—Stewart Brand 
You'll find the absolute rock-bottomest prices for extremely 
popular 35mm cameras in crowded ads in photo maga- 
zines. Shop at Competitive Camera for a far greater range 
of goods: top quality low-cost cameras, lenses, tape re- 
corders, binoculars, projectors, tripods, flash gear, dark- 
room supplies, etc. My experience in ordering photo 
equipment by mail leans toward satisfaction. The pro- 
cedure: Know exactly what you want, down to the minutiae 
T Mount 
Adapter 
$B°° 
This variable magnification duplicator can be used on 
most 35mm SLR cameras. Has its own complete self- 
contained optics in a calibrated helical mount which 
Provides a range from 1:1 to a magnification of 2.5:1 
PLEASE SPECIFY CAMERA 
American Photographer 
A photography magazine that doesn’t pander to the 
unquenchable greed for bright, ever-new gadgets with 
ever-more-amazing bells and whistles. Rather, it focuses 
on developing practical techniques for dedicated 
American 
amateurs and creative professionals. It generously gives 
Photographer 
lots of full-page space to inspirational photo essays. | find 
Sean Callahan, Editor 
that it’s the only photo mag that teaches me something 
$19.98 /year 
with each issue. 
—Kevin Kelly 
After mounting three Baccarat wine-glasses on one end of 
a 2 x 3-foot Formica board and fastening a 4 x 5 Toyo view 
camera onto the other end, Collins mounted the entire 
assembly on a turntable, which he would pivot suddenly to 
propel the liquids out of their glasses. 
(12 issues) from: 
American Photographer 
P. O. Box 2833 
Boulder, CO 80302 
The Photographer’s Handbook 
| was a photogger before | was a catalogger, and long 
I’ve deplored the dearth of practical/comprehensive books 
on photography. The one book | long relied on, Feinin- 
ger’s Total Picture Control, has now been surpassed by 
this beautiful, newly revised book. It’s quite wonderful to 
use, rewarding the browser as well as the photographer 
who has a special problem. | went to sleep on the subject 
of photography years ago. This book makes me think 
about waking up and trying some of its myriad ideas 
and techniques. 
The book replaces about eight others | might have reviewed. 
—Stewart Brand 
Positioning a reflector. In this 
portrait of Stanley Spencer con- 
trast was reduced by using a 
large reflector on the left hand 
side. This returned some of the 
daylight from the window to 
the shadow side of the head. 
< 
An excessively fast shutter speed may sometimes destroy 
the feeling and excitement of speed events. .. . The picture 
simulates a spectator’s impression as the participants flash 
past. It was shot at a relatively slow shutter speed, panning 
and zooming. 
of model numbers; know what you don’t want; call in on 
the 800 number and order with a credit card (do NOT 
pay by check). I’ve tried other ways, but this one is the 
most rewarding. 
—Kevin Kelly 
Competitive 
Competitive Camera 
Camera 
363 Seventh Avenue 
New York, NY 10001 
Catalog free from: 
