COMMUNICATIONS 
3 5 i 
- 
COMPUTER NETWORKING 
OMEDAY EVERYONE WILL COMMUNICATE this way. 
Now, only a small number of lucky pioneers do. Me, for instance. 
Without leaving home, I work 20 hours a month for a com- 
pany 8,000 miles away in London. I’ve exchanged detailed 
(sometimes heartfelt) thoughts with dozens of people I would never 
have otherwise met — including several distant contributors to this 
Catalog. There is no more immediate, involving way to initiate a project 
between a group of far-flung people. Computer networks may make it possible to join the 1990s equivalent 
of the vibrant cultural life of Paris-in-the-20s through any computer in any small town. 
Computer networkers type words into their machines. The words travel across phone lines to other com- 
puters, where they appear as private mail or public messages (readable by anyone else with a computer). 
The Complete 
Many computer networks are like universities without schedules, where members sign in at their own 
Handbook of 
convenience to take part in wide-ranging, overlapping conversations on a variety of topics. 
Personal 
Computer 
Whole Earth editors became so enamored of computer networks that we started our own — the WELL 
(Whole Earth ’Lectronic Link). Like all such networks, you pay by the minute — in our case, $3/hour plus 
rel eal 
$8/month plus (if you’re not local) $4/hour for national transmission carrier. You pay by credit card. To 
1985; 512 pp. 
check in, dial (415) 332-6106 and at the log in prompt, type (in lower case): newuser and press the enter 
$1 4.95 
key or carriage return. 
($16.45 postpaid) from: 
| 
ave 
: 
St. Martin’s P 
| 
If you’ve ever sat waiting by the mailbox, you should consider this technology. Being on computer networks 
475 FihtAvence 
| 
is like having new mail show up several times a day. 
—Art Kleiner 
New York, NY 10010 
| 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Complete Handbook of Personal Computer Communications 
Only book you need. All the lore on how to set up your 
gathered, selected, and filtered through the expertise 
computer for networking, find the particular networks 
and experience of the newsletter’s creator or editor. 
| 
you need, and connect your computer to someone else’s 
| 
typesetting equipment or directly to another computer. 
never carry. . 
. 
. More than 80% of all newsletters on 
| 
Now in its extensively revised second edition, this book 
the NewsNet system are transmitted directly to the com- 
| 
resounds with enthusiasm and clarity. | —Art Kleiner 
pany’s Prime computers from the personal computers 
| 
This is the kind of information the general press will 
e 
and communicating word processors of their creators. 
| 
Industry newsletters of the sort found on NewsNet are 
As a result, you can be reading a newsletter within hours 
really more like private, expert consultations. Most con- 
of the time it left its creator’s floppy disk. 
tain ‘the inside dope’”’ on what's going on in a particular 
Link-Up 
field. And most can tell you what's likely to take place 
® 
Loraine Page, Editor 
| 
six months from now, what your competition is doing, 
One of the important features offered by a system like 
$22; éar 
| 
how national and world events are likely to affect the in- | MCI Mail is the option to have your message printed out 
Ni 
¥ f 
| 
dustry as a whole, and so on. In many cases there will 
and delivered by U. S. mail. This is important because it 
a ae elle ae 
| also be commentary and analysis, interviews with key 
lets you send letters to people who do not have access 
1 23 Ol 
d eee ae: 
| 
people, advice, tips, and other information — all of it 
to a personal computer. 
Medford, NJ 08055 
| 
A 
You can quickly scan articles and choose those that 
Link Up 
appear most significant to your practice. You can then 
A tabloid with personal writing that keeps track of new 
forward the article to your associates via electronic mail. 
computer networks, information services, terminal 
& 
i 
software, and anything else you need to telecommunicate _ Before you decide to meet a 
effectively via personal computer. Some articles pick a 
CompuServer or attend a 
| 
topic (investing, psychology, detective work, religion) 
CompuServe CB party in 
| 
and describe everything online that’s related. Link-Up is 
some faraway city, check 
| 
also beginning to cover some of the legal and social 
out the pix in the CB data- 
| 
ramifications of the new telecom technology. —Art Kleiner 
base. If you are using 
| 
. 
CompuServe’s Vidtex com- 
munications software, you 
can download and print 
digitized pictures of other 
CompuServers. To get into 
the database, you send 
CompuServe a good, sharp 
SE 
EI EES EN PE ED LI ED 
yt 
VeOthorex 10” black 
and white photo of your 
head and shoulders. 
The University of the Pacific’s School of Pharmacy offers 
] 
doctors and psychiatrists drug information via a private 
| 
service, Drug.Info, on Source Telecomputing. The Univer- 
| 
sity’s staff reviews most major publications to provide an 
| 
up-to-the-minute digest of important drug developments. 
¢ Many of the editors and contributors of this catalog host 
| 
on-line conferences on The WELL, Whole Earth’s own region- 
} 
al network. Jay Kinney runs the Spirituality conference; Dick 
Fugett, Politics; Kevin Kelly, Travel; Art Kleiner, Telecommuni- 
cations; and James Stockford, Music. There are 120 other 
conferences going on, too. Experts are encouraged to start 
Software from Hallmark 
en sopics 
oder eanerite tormate 
greetings offline, then send 
them via CompuServe. 
