LAND USE 
| Canening 
Gardening Magazines 
Harrowsmith from Canada established itself early on as 
the best of the new magazines dealing with country living. 
Beautifully designed and intelligently written, it has now 
spawned an American edition. Both cover cold-climate 
gardening, plus architecture, cooking, and environmental i; 
politics. 
Hortldeas is a monthly newsletter gleaned from reading 
mostly technical bulletins at an agricultural library — in 
this case the University of Kentucky’s. Articles are cap- 
sulized for easy digestion and referenced for further 
investigation. It’s an extremely fertile source of new 
gardening ideas. 
Horticulture is a venerable general-interest gardening 
magazine; it is occasionally a bit stodgy but has con- 
sistently good color photography. Because it is aimed at 
an affluent audience it is an excellent place to keep up 
with what’s new via the advertisements. 
The National Gardening Association (see next page) has 
a rapidly changing and improving house organ called 
National Gardening. Backyard vegetable gardening is 
the subject, and readers furnish a good supply of new 
ideas and techniques. In a healthy attempt to live up to 
its name, there is steady coverage of solutions to prob- 
lems caused by regional climates. 
Rodale’s Organic Gardening has watched the mainstream 
creep ever closer to its once-isolated position, so much so 
that the family name was just recently added to the mast- 
head. Keeping backyard fruits and vegetables healthy 
without synthetic chemicals is the main idea, but like Horti- 
culture — or any magazine with a long and successful 
career — the trick is to keep the contents fresh and interest- 
ing. The solution here includes branching into ornamental 
horticulture and an ongoing discussion of sustainable or 
regenerative gardening and economics. —Richard Nilsen 
Harrowsmith (Canadian Edition): Wayne Grady, Editor. $19 
lyear ($15 in Canada); 6 issues; from Harrowsmith, 7 Queen 
Victoria Road, Camden East, Ontario, Canada KOK JO. 
(U.S. Edition): James M. Lawrence, Editor. $18/year (6 issues) 
from Harrowsmith, The Creamery, Charlotte, VT 05445. 
Hortideas: Gregory and Patricia Y. Williams, Editors. $10 
year (12 issues) from Hortldeas, Route 1, Box 302, Gravel 
Switch, KY 40328. 
Horticulture: Thomas Cooper, Editor; $18/year (12 issues) 
from Horticulture, P. O. Box 2595, Boulder, CO 80322. 
National Gardening: Ruth Page, Editor; $18/year (includes 
membership; 12 issues) from The National Gardening 
Association, 180 Flynn Avenue, Burlington, VT 05401. 
Rodale’'s Organic Gardening: Robert Rodale, Editor; $12.97 
year (12 issues) from Rodale Press, 33 East Minor Street, 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
<q 
A few years ago, Sibella Kraus was a chef at Alice Waters’ 
well-known Berkeley restaurant, Chez Panisse. Kraus knew 
first-hand how difficult it was to find reliable sources of 
lovingly tended organic vegetables, and in 1983, she 
launched the Farm-Restaurant Project, to see if a link 
could be established between Bay Area restaurants look- 
ing for high-quality seasonal produce and growers 
willing to provide it. 
The project was a huge success. Soon Kraus, working 
through Greenleaf Produce Co. of San Francisco, became 
the first food broker specifically for the fabled restaurants 
of the new cuisine. ‘“When people start knowing who’s 
growing great food or wine, people start caring about 
that hillside, that valley, that watershed where it’s grown. 
Knowing where your food comes from enhances an eco- 
logical consciousness. You see that farmland should be 
treated like a resource, not a commodity.”’ 
—Rodale’s Organic Gardening 
Sl GZ 
AD 
—Horticulture 
Sweet Potatoes. 
e 
For growers experimenting with ways to keep deer, rab- 
bits, and other plant eaters out of the garden, Hortldeas 
reader Virginia Henrichs suggests Goodart’s (Star Route, 
Box 427, Milam, TX 75959) as a supplier of fox, coyote, 
and bobcat urine. Goodart’s sells equipment for fur 
trappers, who use urine to lure their prey. 
—Hortldeas 
Raised beds the easy way. 
—National Gardening 
Researchers at Cairo University in Egypt report that add- 
ing sugar (presumably sucrose, table sugar) to Bacillus 
thuringiensis biological insecticide can increase its effect- 
iveness in killing insect pests. Larvae of the spiny 
bollworm, Earias insulana, were used in the experiments, 
but the researchers suggest that sugar added as a 
feeding stimulant to B.t. might aid its effectiveness in con- 
trolling other lepidopterous pests as well. 
—Hortideas 
The latest in protective covers are ‘’spun-bonded”’ 
blankets. So lightweight that they can rest directly on the 
piants, they protect against frost and warm the soil. 
—Harrowsmith 
Sa 
LE BES 
I 
TD 
¢ A listing of 50 gardening magazines, society journals, and 
newsletters available by subscription can be found in 
Gardening by Mail (p. 71). 
¢ The Brooklyn Botanical Gardens Handbook series (also 
on p. 71) is a valuable gardening periodical resource. 
