i 
PSYCHOLOGICAL SELF-CARE 
HEALTH 229 
Children of Alcoholism 
| came from a teetotaling family but lots of my friends 
didn’t. The kids with alcoholic parents often behaved in 
ways that | didn’t understand (and they probably didn’t 
either). This book makes it so clear what was going on, | 
wish I‘d had it then. If you have alcoholic parents in your 
life (or are an alcoholic parent) you’ll probably learn a 
lot here. 
—JB 
There is so frequently a discrepancy between what they 
are told is happening and what is actually going on that 
children of alcoholics are not sure of what they see, what 
they hear, and what they feel. In other words, they don’t 
believe their own perceptions. 
r 
Betty is one of those young women who won't trust 
anyone to be there to catch them if they trip. “| haven’t 
told my husband about my miscarriage,’’ she confides. 
When the Mental 
Patient Comes Home 
Dealing with a mental patient in my life has been like 
dealing with parts of myself that I’d just as soon avoid. 
Getting past the guilt and distaste turns out to be part 
love and part technique, like so many other skills. This 
nonpreachy, nonsectarian book has helped a lot. 
° 
—Art Kleiner 
Psychiatrists on active duty during the war learned that 
soldiers who ‘‘broke down” in combat should not be kept 
in recovery areas too long. Those who were returned 
rapidly to active duty did well. Those hospitalized for 
long periods tended toward further disintegration of 
personality and ability to function. 
Family and friends often wish to protect recovering 
patients from the full range of human experience. They 
seek to insulate patients tom sorrow, excitement, fear 
and even joy. They fear that ‘‘too much’”’ weeping, thrill, 
fright, laughter, might cause the patient to regress. 
Usually this is done out of love for the recovering 
patient. Patients experience this form of love 
differently. They experience it as being controlled. 
Children of 
Alcoholism 
Judith S. Seixas 
and Geraldine Youcha 
1985; 208 pp. 
$14.95 
($16.95 postpaid) from: 
Crown Publishers 
34 Englehard Avenue 
Avenel, NJ 07001 
or Whole Earth Access 
“| don’t want to upset him.’’ By keeping quiet and 
choosing to suffer alone with the loss, she has effectively 
created a gap between herself and the person who 
should be sharing her sadness. Patterns of dishonesty 
and withholding information automatically destroy inti- 
macy so that chances of true emotional closeness 
become slim. 
Betty had learned early from her alcoholic mother that 
anger, joy, love, fear, and all other feelings had to go 
unacknowledged. So how was she going to talk openly 
to her husband? 
Advanced Techniques 
of Hypnosis and Therapy 
Gradually the sciences of the human mind are achieving 
levels of abstraction and rigor appropriate to the discus- 
sion of mental processes. But Milton Erickson has been 
ahead of the field in this respect for forty years. This big 
book is a collection of his papers with some commentary 
by Jay Haley, and it is a most extraordinary collection. 
Erickson’s method, whether of therapy or research, is the 
precise use of hypnosis. Under this investigation, the 
human mind turns out to be as precise in its evolutions 
and timing as a minuet. 
—Gregory Bateson 
But utilizing hypnosis as a technique of deliberately and 
intentionally shifting to the patient his own burden of 
responsibility for therapeutic results and having him em- 
phatically and repetitiously affirm and confirm in his own 
thought formulations and his own expressed verbaliza- 
tions of his own desires, needs and intentions at the level 
of his own unconscious mentation, forces the therapeutic 
goals to become the patient’s own goals, not those 
merely offered to them by the therapist he is visiting. 
eT IS 
IAT IIE LEE LE LITEM ES SII IES ELT CELI LSD ILE LIE LIS ALE LEI EYED 
EE TEI 
The Love Tapes 
The personal growth movement has spawned a booming 
industry in self-hypnosis tapes that promise to do 
everything from increase your bustline to clean up your 
karma from past lives. Outrageous claims notwithstanding, 
such cassettes can be powertul tools for helping to 
change old habits, and many are used in hospitals for 
stress management and to accelerate healing. Of the 
couple dozen brands I’ve sampled, The Love Tapes pro- 
vide the best combination of strategies in the most easily 
accessible format. 
Despite the name, the tapes are refreshingly neutral 
about pushing any particular ideological viewpoint. A 
wide range of topics, from health and relationships to 
business, feature messages consistently well-grounded in 
modern psychological theory. The sound quality is great, 
with music occasionally blended into the background as a 
pleasant male voice guides you through several levels of 
hypnotic induction. Beginning with a relaxing meditation 
which evokes pleasurable sensations, the suggestions 
increasingly address themselves to the source of the un- 
wanted behavior and to reprogramming basic self-concepts, 
vividly imagining the desired end result. 
For example, the weight-loss tape ‘‘Slim Image II’’ works 
on engendering a positive body image and releasing 
guilt, resentment, and blame, while also making such 
concrete suggestions as ‘’Sweets taste too sugary to me,’ 
‘| prefer nourishing foods, ’’ and “’! eat only what | 
choose to eat, and only when | am relaxed.’’ My per- 
sonal favorite is ‘Developing Creativity,’’ in which quotes 
from Einstein and Edison are combined with suggestions 
for merging right- and left-brain activities. Each tape ends 
with post-hypnotic suggestions of health, vigor, alertness, 
etc. When | listen to them before bed, no matter what the 
topic, | tend to sleep more soundly and to awaken fresher 
in the morning. 
’ 
All subjects are also available in a subliminal format in 
which the same messages are masked beneath the sound 
of ocean waves. Though the jury is still out on the validity 
of subliminal programming, these can be played during 
any daily activity and at least serve as a reminder of the 
desired changes. Consistency of intention is probably the 
real key to change, and these are tapes | enjoy enough 
to listen to daily. 
—Rebecca Wilson 
Sin 
When the 
Mental Patient 
Comes Home 
George Bennett 
1980; 118 pp. 
$7.95 
($8.95 postpaid) from: 
The Westminster Press 
925 Chestnut 
Philadelphia, PA 19107 
or Whole Earth Access 
Advanced 
Techniques 
of Hypnosis 
and Therapy 
(Selected Papers of 
Milton H. Erickson, M.D.) 
Jay Haley, Editor 
1967; 557 pp. 
$74.50 
($76.50 postpaid) from: 
Grune & Stratton 
Book Services Dept. 
Orlando, FL 32887 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Love Tapes 
$11.98 - $13.98 
Catalog free from: 
Effective Learning Systems 
5221 Edina 
Industrial Blvd. 
Edina, MN 55435 
