326 
An Actor Prepares 
Constantin Stanislavski 
1964; 295 pp. 
$14.95 
($15.89 postpaid) from: 
Theatre Arts Books 
153 Waverly Place 
New York, NY 10014 
or Whole Earth Access 
Respect for Acting 
Uta Hagen with 
Haskel Frankel 
1973; 227 pp. 
$1 3.95 postpaid from: 
Macmillan Publishing Co. 
Order Dept. 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth Access 
Impro 
Keith Johnstone 
1979; 208 pp. 
$14.95 
($15.89 postpaid) from: 
Theatre Arts Books 
153 Waverly Place 
New York, NY 10014 
or Whole Earth Access 
COMMUNICATIONS 
THEATER 
cat DENTITY IS A FRAME; death is a curtain; we are all actors. Those who “act” the identity of 
¥* 
others are directly connected to the lineage of Paleolithic shamans; first transformers; first knowers 
7 
that identity is mutable. 
Zs 
yt 
That their magic is fundamental is proven time and time again by the power available to even the 
puffiest bourgeois theatrical when it brushes this charged ground. 
A study of the following books will put stretch in your sense of self, aid the development of penetrating 
observation, and do for your human interactions what jogging does for the cardiovascular system. Become 
your own transformer. Practice throwing your own switches. You’ll be surprised what your little electric 
train can do. 
—Peter Coyote 
An Actor Prepares 
The Source Text. Stanislavski’s studies of the techniques of 
the best actors of his day are the basis of all subsequent 
teachings. His dedication and worship of nature are an 
inspiration. 
—Peter Coyote 
Never lose yourself on the stage. Always act in your own 
person, as an artist. You can never get away from your- 
self. The moment you lose yourself on the stage marks the 
departure from truly living your part and the beginning of 
exaggerated false acting. Therefore, no matter how much 
you act, how many parts you take, you should never 
allow yourself any exception to the rule of using your 
own feelings. To break that rule is the equivalent of kill- 
ing the person you are portraying, because you deprive 
him of a palpitating, human soul, which is the real 
source of life for a part. 
When you speak to the person who is playing opposite 
you, learn to follow through until you are certain your 
thoughts have penetrated his consciousness. Only after 
you are convinced of this and have added with your eyes 
what could not be put into words, should you continue 
to say the rest of your lines. 
Impro 
Most theater texts are like books on learning to ride a 
bike. Only after you have the hang of it are they 
valuable. This book is a rare peek into genius. Keith John- 
stone, associated with George Devine and Tony Richardson 
of the Royal Court Theatre in London, creator of the Theatre 
Machine, comes across as a true magician, an inspired 
innovator of techniques for plugging people into the well- 
springs of their own imaginations. One of the most useful 
and provocative books | have ever read on theater. 
—Peter Coyote 
[Suggested by Pat Ryan] 
‘Try to get your status just a little above or below your 
partner’s,’ | said, and | insisted that the gap should be 
minimal. The actors seemed to know exactly what | meant 
and the work was transformed. The scenes became ‘au- 
thentic’, and actors seemed marvellously observant. 
Suddenly we understood that every inflection and move- 
ment implies a status, and that no action is due to chance, 
or really ‘motiveless’. It was hysterically funny, but at the 
same time very alarming. All our secret manoeuvrings 
were exposed. If someone asked a question we didn’t 
bother to answer it, we concentrated on why it had been 
asked. No one could make an ‘innocuous’ remark without 
everyone instantly grasping what lay behind it. Normally 
we are ‘forbidden’ to see status transactions except when 
there’s a conflict. In reality status transactions continue 
all the time. In the park we'll notice the ducks squabbling, 
but not how carefully they keep their distances when 
they are not. 
Respect for Acting 
Uta Hagen’s book is an indispensable companion to Stan- 
islavski’s. 
A consummate actress and teacher, she offers 
precise methodologies for developing one’s intuitions, 
perceptions and responses, and coaxing open the doors 
of the subconscious as reservoir for solutions to acting 
problems. (Which are real-life problems, no?) 
Her style is passionate, and her standards are demandingly 
high, offered to what is best in world theater. 
—Peter Coyote 
A great danger is to take the five senses for granted. 
Most people do. Once you become aware that the 
sources which move in on you when you truly touch, 
taste, smell, see and hear are endless, you must also 
realize that self-involvement deadens the senses, and 
vanity slaughters them until you end up playing all 
alone — and meaninglessly. 
® 
Overacting, as it is usually thought of, means that the 
actor is playing to the gallery instead of with the other 
characters on stage. Or that he is hanging onto his own 
sensations or wallowing in false emotion. Underacting is 
primarily an empty imitation of nature, the actor playing 
in the ‘‘manner’’ of naturalness, unrelated to the roots 
of the given reality. 
Norcosto « Mutual Hardware 
Low-cost theater equipment, costumes, makeup, etc. for 
school-size productions. | can‘t imagine opening a new 
wave nightclub or restaurant without some of these toys. 
—Stewart Brand 
Fig. 
9005 
COBWEB MACHINE 
Fig. 9005 Cobweb Machine is 
used 
to produce 
authentic 
cobwebs 
which 
even 
fools a 
spider. 
Useful 
in 
setting 
the scenes 
in mysteries, 
comedies 
and dramas. 
Web is 
produced by the spraying of 
Fig. 9006 Cobweb Juice from the fuice holder 
in machine. 
—Mutual Hardware 
* Good coverage of national and regional theater plus the 
complete text of one play per issue. 
American Theater: Jim O’Quinn, Editor. $24/year (11 issues) 
from Theater Communications Group, 355 Lexington Avenue, 
New York, NY 10017. 
¢ America’s giant of play publishers offers a catalog 
organized by special interest — Chinese plays, Monologues, 
Black plays, etc. — and indexed by author and title. 
French’s Basic Catalogue of Plays: $2 from Samuel French, 
Inc., 45 West 25th Street, New York, NY 10010. 
