200 
10 
x 
Invent 
something else 
Patent It Yourself 
David Pressman 
1985; 421 pp. 
$24.95 
($26.45 postpaid) from: 
Nolo Press 
950 Parker Street 
Berkeley, CA 94710 
or Whole Earth Access 
A Handbook for 
Inventors 
Calvin D. MacCracken 
1983; 211 pp. 
$1 8.95 postpaid from: 
Macmillan Publishing Co. 
Order Department 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth Access 
LIVELIHOOD 
PATENTS 
4 
6 
Is invention 
no 
x 
Prepare and file 
discoverable from 
i 
i 
r 
a patent 
final product? 
i 
? 
application 
38 
Is product easier and cheaper to manufacture 
and sell than 
filing a patent application and are you willing to sacrifice 
advantages of filing before manufacturing? 
Try to sell invention 
and patent application 
to a manufacourer 
a patent 
Try to sell invention to 
manufacturer without 
utility patent 
application 
Prepare and file a 
design patent or 
design, distinctive 
trade dress, or 
copyright- 
protectible labeling 
(if possible) 
Manufacture and 
distribute yourself and 
keep as trade secret 
Manufacture and 
distribute yourself 
without utility patent 
application 
D 
Manufacture and 
distribute yourself: 
"Patent Pending” 
Prepare and file a patent 
application (within 1 
year of first offer of sale) 
F 
HEN ASKED, “OF WHAT USE is your 
latest invention?” Benjamin Franklin re- 
plied, “Of what use is a newborn baby?” 
Patent It Yourself 
Other patent-it-yourself books seem like mere abstracts 
compared to this detailed gem of a book. Every step of 
the patent process is presented in order, complete with 
official forms to practice upon. The language is free of 
legalese except where readers are trained to sling a bit of 
it themselves for effect. The book is especially helpful in 
making tough tactical decisions, such as whether or not to 
patent at all. The copyright process is covered too. 
—JB 
< Invention decision chart. 
A Handbook for Inventors 
So you have an idea. What next? For 90 percent of the 
folks with a good idea for a product, what’s next is failure 
— usually attributable to ineptitude. (1 can vouch from 
sad experience that the sharks are many.) This savvy 
book is a useful guide for those who dare to bring their 
brainchild to the market. In contrast to many other books 
of this type, the author avoids rah-rah success stories that 
don’t tell you what the protagonists really did. He con- 
centrates on the strategies and tactics necessary for dealing 
with the realities of business. His advice is just what you 
need to hear, and it’s presented in a friendly manner 
that’s easy to assimilate. That’s important, because when 
youre in somebody’s office and have to make a decision 
on your feet, you won’t be able to consult a manual — 
you'll have to have your moves right there in the top of 
your mind. 
—JB 
Generally, the people involved in certification are fair 
and honest citizens trying to protect the public. However, 
as most have been burned before by products they’d ac- 
cepted that subsequently created hazards, they tend to 
be extremely cautious; therefore you may have to devote 
a great deal of time to educating them before they'll 
move. This is a cost for which most innovators and entre- 
preneurs never budget properly, and many a new product 
has not bridged this last hurdle. 
In selecting a licensee, it is often wise to pick a company 
that would like to get into your product’s general field 
but is not yet involved in it. When | had invented a 
blanket that worked by circulating warm water in tubes 
the size of wires, | made the mistake of licensing it to 
Fieldcrest Mills, who were number one in electric blankets, 
selling over 2 million blankets a year. They told me their 
electric blanket business wasn’t as profitable as they 
would like it to be and that the more even comfort of the 
“water blanket’’ would bring a higher price and give 
them something new over the competition. 
Unfortunately, the water blanket’s biggest selling point 
was that electric blankets cause fires and that a large 
number of people are afraid of having electric wires 
covering them at night. Fieldcrest would never say that 
for fear of hurting their major business. 
r 
Licensing professionals like Robert Goldscheider of the 
International Licensing Network, Ltd., in New York City 
go to great lengths to find a potential licensee whose 
business will benefit in every way from the license and 
who will make it part of the company’s long-range plan- 
ning. Here is Goldscheider’s plan as he gave it to me in 
a recent interview: 
1. Search out a licensee in terms of its ability to sell, not 
to engineer or to manufacture. (For example, stick to 
those that advertise heavily.) 
2. Avoid internal conflicts of interest. (For example, if 
your product is a plastic chain, avoid chain manufac- 
turers and find plastics marketers.) 
3. Get through to a decision maker. (Call the presi- 
dent's office at 9 a.m., and someone will put you in 
touch with the person who can give the project the 
presidential seal of approval.) 
4. 
Prepare a licensing memo of seven or eight pages 
containing: 
¢ The history of the innovation 
¢ Background on the inventors (their qualifications) 
e A rundown of the market and economics of the 
invention 
¢ The package of intellectual property (patent, 
trademark, lawyer’s opinion and reputation, etc.) 
¢ What deal you want (for example, a three-month 
option for $20,000 with right to renew at the same 
fee, with half of option fees credited against final 
license down payment . 
5. Try to connect your invention to a scholarly article. 
6. 
Find out what is a must for the licensee’s side, and 
agree to it only after many concessions on their part. 
7. Make yourself look successful. (Pay attention to 
shoes, fingernails, clothes.) 
8. 
Rehearse negotiations, getting someone to play the 
role of prospective licensee. 
9. 
Offer five days free consulting (to give the licensee 
time to get the reaction of his key thinkers). 
10. 
Use your license form for discussion, not theirs. 
Probably the best bet is the trade show, exhibit, convention, 
or whatever it is called in your field. . 
. . Pick out a 
booth exhibiting a similar or related product or com- 
ponent and ask to talk to an engineer. Tell him you’re 
working on a product to do a certain thing. Don’t say 
‘‘inventing,’’ because that word arouses legal concern 
and suspicion. Ask what technical matters he’d be worried 
about, and had he ever heard of anyone developing, 
writing about, making, or selling such a product. 
