114 
Redesigning the 
American Dream 
Dolores Hayden 
1984; 270 pp. 
$17.95 
postpaid from: 
W. W. Norton 
500 5th Avenue 
New York, NY 10110 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Plan of 
St. Gall in Brief 
Lorna Price 
1982; 104 pp. 
$30 
($31.50 postpaid) from: 
University of 
California Press 
2120 Berkeley Way 
Berkeley, CA 94720 
or Whole Earth Access 
HOUSEHOLD 
Redesigning 
the American Dream 
Do you dream of living in a single-family home? You might 
find this eloquent argument against the idea provocative. 
Architect Dolores Hayden shows that the traditional home 
is often inappropriate for the rising number of single- 
parent families, families with more than one adult wage 
earner, and the elderly. Much better would be further 
development of the housing we already have by mean§ of 
“‘mother-in-law’’ apartments and cleverly refurbished 
neighborhoods. The role (some would say plight) of women 
is discussed with unusual sensitivity — rare in books ad- 
dressing planning — with women’s needs incorporated 
centrally into every proposed design. | found the level of 
research to be deeper than other books on the subject, 
and mercifully free of simplistic analysis. Easy to read 
too; no academic poopadoodle at all. 
—JB 
[Suggested by Stephanie Mills] 
San Diego estimated overall costs to the city of one new 
detached suburban house at $13,500 and began billing 
OUSEHOLD: Where you come home 
to, what you come home to, who you 
come home to. A place you can call 
your own, if you work at it. 
—JB 
this infrastructure charge to startled developers. Fair- 
field, California, estimated that total tax revenues from 
new housing development would cover half the cost of 
police services and nothing more. 
Most of the towns and cities of the United States simply 
cannot afford this kind of new development: not the in- 
frastructure cost, or the service cost, or the energy cost. 
@ 
Access to the public domain is especially difficult for 
older women. After age sixty-five, many women reap the 
results of a lifetime of low earnings, limited mobility, and 
self-sacrifice. In a study of 82,000 widows in Chicago, 
Helena Lopata found that over half of them did not go 
to public places, and over a fifth did not even go visiting. 
While 82 percent were not in a position to offer trans- 
portation to others, 45 percent had no one, of any age, 
to rely on for transportation. 
~<A bevy of Solari bells. 
The Plan of St. Gall in Brief 
One of the most thrilling publications in years, the three- 
volume Plan of St. Gall also had a thrilling price — $450. 
(It’s now out of print, and it’s worth over $1,000!) This 
condensed version leaves a surprising amount of the thrill 
intact. The richness of the color, the wealth of models, 
drawings, diagrams, and maps, leads you into the heart 
of deeply civilized intelligence circa 800 A.D. St. Gall is 
the smartest intentional community (monastery in this case) 
ever designed. 
—Stewart Brand 
@ 
Proximity to the gardens was a boon for both birds and their keepers 
— garden clippings might provide the chickens and geese with 
additional food, while in the beds and orchard manure from the 
pens could quickly be distributed, enhancing sanitation. 
ocEntesocod 
mpoecceocces 
’ 
Dormitory, 3; Privy 4; Laundry 5; Gardener’s House 20; Goosehouse 
21; Fowlkeepers’ House 22; Henhouse 23; Granary 24; Vegetable 
24 
Garden X; Cemetery & Orchard Y. 
Paolo Soleri and 
the Arcosanti Project 
agree that the experience was worth it, though not 
without controversy. 
The Cosanti Foundation also supports itself by giving 
workshops on a variety of related subjects, publishing 
books by and about Mr. Soleri (the drawings are terrific) 
and by casting bells in bronze and stoneware. Visitors 
are welcome. 
Arcosanti is the name of the first “‘arcology, ’’ a compact 
city that will someday shelter 5,000 people, their art, and 
their work. Arcosanti will temper its own climate and make 
its own energy. Huge built-in greenhouses will grow the 
food and heat the entire complex in winter. The work goes 
slowly — in 15 years only about three percent of the pro- 
ject has been completed, but what's there is wonderful to 
see. It’s been built mostly by volunteers who have paid to 
work with master architect Soleri. Workers I’ve talked to 
I consider Arcosanti to be an affair of the spirit; it’s good 
to know that people are putting their time and effort into 
attempts of this sort. Beats complaining about the state of 
the world any time. 
—JB 
Arcosanti under 
construction near 
Prescott, AZ. 
Arcosanti 
Information on educational 
programs, bells, and Soleri 
books free from: 
Cosanti Foundation 
6433 Doubletree Road 
Scottsdale, AZ 85253 
