Parabola 
Underground rivers of juice flow in this magazine of 
myth. The major players in the subject play here, with a 
graphic excitement never seen in academic publications. 
= 
—Stewart Brand 
It is not by chance that we speak of a “‘pride of lions,’ 
for those old collective words often expressed a salient 
quality in the beasts or birds they described. The lion is 
felt by man to be a king among beasts. His pride is very 
different from the human sin of usurping a merit not his 
own; it is a natural pride which is the quality of being 
absolutely true to oneself. A lion who turns man-eating 
when unable through injury to catch his natural prey 
becomes a pariah, cast out of his pride, for he is untrue 
to his lion nature, no longer a proud king among beasts. 
It is interesting to remember how Laurens van der Post 
writes in The Heart of the Hunter of the Bushman’s feel- 
ing for the lion, and of his own observations. He says 
the lion is by far the most individual of the wild animals 
in Africa. Every lion you encounter will act in a different 
way and you can never predict his behavior as you can 
with almost all the other species. 
Primal Myths 
Any extensive exploration of mythology will reveal how 
incredibly heterogeneous human culture is. | know of no 
book that shows this better than Barbara C. Sproul’s 
Primal Myths. Sproul has collected the creation myths of 
every corner of the world. From the Yao of northern 
Mozambique we learn how “‘the gods were driven off 
the face of the earth by the cruelty of man.”’ The Jains 
and Buddhists of India give us rarified discussions of why 
there are no creators at all. The Maidu of California tell 
us that the world was created from the dirt under turtles’ 
fingernails. 
Rich with plot and character, they can be read as beguil- 
ing stories, or pondered as philosophical verities. Each 
myth is preceded by a concise paragraph or two that 
helps explain it, and places the people in geographical 
context. There is enough charm and truth in this book to 
¢ Also see Joseph Campbell’s Hero with a Thousand Faces 
(p. 401). 
e Learn how to record and create some of your own stories 
and myths from At a Journal Workshop (p. 400). 
allow you to fall in love with humanity again. 
—David Kennedy 
Mundurucu: The People Climbed Out 
Karusakaibo had made the world but had not created 
men. One day Dairru, the armadillo, offended the 
creator and was forced to take refuge in a hole in the 
ground. Karusakaibo blew into the hole and stamped his 
foot on the earth. Daiiru was blown out of the hole by 
the rush of air. He reported that people were living in 
the earth. He and Karusakaibo made a cotton rope and 
lowered it into the hole. The people began to climb out. 
When half of them had emerged, the rope broke and 
half remained underground, where they still live. The sun 
passes through their country from west to east when it is 
night on the earth; the moon shines there when the 
earth has moonless nights. 
The Way of the Animal Powers 
This formidable work of art and scholarship concerns the 
myths of the first peoples — the hunter-gatherers of our 
ancestry and of today. Their images, their beliefs, are 
deeply sophisticated and as troubling and inspiring as the 
reader will let them be. The medium, arch-mythologist 
Joseph -Campbell, is welcoming you to a long night's 
journey. This is Volume | of an Historical Atlas of World 
Mythology. Maps abound, along with some of the best 
reproductions yet of mythic creatures both famous and 
heretofore little known. 
—Stewart Brand 
< 
The male initiation rites of the Ona were conducted in a 
special lodge of the men’s society, the kloketen, from 
which women were excluded; and associated with the 
mystifications of this institution were a number of such 
Hallowe’en spooks as we see here. These apparitions 
would appear from time to time, ranging through the 
bush of areas about the men’s house, and any woman or 
child seeing one or more of them was to suppose that 
they were the inhabitants of the kloketen with whom the 
men held converse in their meetings. An important 
moment in the initiations of a boy took place when he 
was compelled to get up and wrestle with one of these 
characters, who would let the youngster put him down, 
after which the masquerade was uncovered, and the boy 
turned into a man. There was a legend of the kloketen 
having been originally of the women, but taken and 
kept from them by the men. 
The Way of the 
Aninal Powers 
Alfred Van Der Marck 
Editi 
Joseph Campbell 
leony Sout 
1983; 304 pp. 
2350 Virginia Avenue 
$75 
Hagerstown, MD 21740 
($78 postpaid) from: 
or Whole Earth Access 
LEARNING 
MYTH 393 
Parabola 
Lorraine Kisly, Editor 
Si 8hyear 
(4 issues) from: 
Parabola 
656 Broadway 
New York, NY 10012 
Primal Myths 
Barbara C. Sproul 
1979; 352 pp. 
$9.95 
($11.45 postpaid) from: 
Harper & Row 
2350 Virginia Ave. 
Hagerstown, MD 21740 
or Whole Earth Access 
