WRITING SOL 
Becoming a Writer 
Dorothea Brande makes not one mention of technique, 
her tacit assumption being that once a writer has gotten 
past the “‘root’’ problems, a style manual should be easy 
to find. Instead she offers exercises for learning to see in- 
nocently, harnessing the flow of the subconscious, and 
reckoning with grittier concerns such as writer’s block. 
“Her whole focus,’’ observes John Gardner in the fore- 
word, “‘is on the writer’s mind and heart.’’ That single- 
mindedness of focus is the glory of this wise and useful 
little book. 
—Teresa Carpenter 
e 
If you find yourself groping for a theme you may take 
The Art of Fiction 
The late John Gardner was an accomplished novelist with 
a passionate concern in promoting a literary ethic of con- 
servatism and high standards. This book, “designed to 
teach the serious beginning writer the art of fiction,’’ is a 
thoughttul consideration of the techniques and pitfalls of 
that art. It manages to maintain a critical rigorousness 
that demystifies the work of world-class fiction without 
dampening the enthusiasm of novices, who can benefit 
mightily from the pragmatic discussion herein. 
—Steven Levy 
e 
No ignoramus — no writer who has kept himself in- 
nocent of education — has ever produced great art... 
. 
All great writing is in a sense imitation of great writing. 
Writing a novel, however innovative that novel may be, 
the writer struggles to achieve one specific large effect, 
what can only be called the effect we are used to getting 
Writer’s Market ¢ The International Directory 
of Little Magazines and Small Presses 
When |! was beginning a career as a free-lancer, | thumbed 
the hell out of Writer's Market. It has the addresses, edi- 
tors’ names, story requirements, and payment fees for 
almost anywhere you‘d want to sell your work, and a lot 
of places you wouldn’t care to. Don’t make the mistake, 
though, of using it as an exclusive reference — before you 
send anything out, you must get hold of the actual pub- 
lication to see if it’s right for your idea. But for addresses 
alone, it’s worth its price. 
this as a fair piece of advice, simple as it sounds: ‘’You 
can write about anything which has been vivid enough 
to cause you to comment upon it.”’ If a situation has 
caught your attention to that extent, it has meaning for 
you, and if you can find what that meaning is you have 
the basis for a story. 
The conclusion should be plain. If you want to stimulate 
yourself into writing, amuse yourself in wordless ways. 
Instead of going to a theater, hear a symphony orches- 
tra, or go by yourself to a museum; go alone for long 
walks, or ride by yourself on a bus-top. If you will con- 
scientiously refuse to talk or read you will find youself 
compensating for it to your great advantage. 
Becoming a Writer 
Dorothea Brande 
1961; 186 pp. 
$5.95 
($7.20 postpaid) from: 
St. Martin’s Press 
from 
good novels. However weird the technique, what- 
Cash Sales 
ever the novel’s mode, we say when we have finished it, 
175 Fifth Avenue 
““Now that is a novel!’’ 
New York, NY 10010 
e 
or Whole Earth Access 
In great fiction we are moved by what happens, not by 
the whimpering or bawling of the writer’s presentation 
of what happens. That is, in great fiction, we are moved 
by characters and events, not by the emotion of the per- 
son who happens to be telling the story. Sometimes, as 
in the fiction of Tolstoy or Chekhov — and one might 
mention many others — the narrative voice is deliberately 
kept calm and dispassionate, so that the emotion arising 
from the fictional events comes through almost wholly 
untinged by presentation; but restraint of that kind is not 
an aesthetic necessity. A flamboyant style like that of 
Faulkner at his best can be equally successful. The trick 
is simply that the style must work in the service of the 
material, not in advertisement of the writer. 
The Art of Fiction 
John Gardner 
1983; 224 pp. 
$4.95 
($5.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
Order Dept. 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
The International Directory, covering the small press 
world, does an even better job. A great resource for placing 
fiction and poetry, it’s also a spiritual road map of the 
independent publishing movement. And since it clues you 
in on thousands of fascinating publications you never 
heard of, it’s almost as valuable for readers as it is 
—Steven Levy 
for writers. 
Writer’s Market 
Paula Deimling, Editor 
CHICAGO READER, Box 11101, Chicago IL 60611. (312)828-0350. Editor: Robert A. Roth. 80% 
freelance written. “‘The Reader is distributed free in Chicago’s lakefront neighborhoods. Generally speaking, 
these are Chicago’s best educated, most affluent neighborhoods—and they have an unusually high concentra- 
tion of young adults.’’ Weekly tabloid; 128 pages. Circ. 117,000. Pays ‘‘by 15th of month following publica- 
tion.”’ Buys all rights. Byline given. Phone queries OK. Photocopied submissions OK. Computer printout sub- 
missions acceptable; prefers letter-quality to dot-matrix. SASE. Reports ‘very slow,” up to | year or more. 
Nonfiction: ‘‘We want magazine features on Chicago topics. Will also consider reviews.’ Buys 500 mss/year. 
Submit complete ms. Length: ‘‘Whatever’s appropriate to the story.’’ Pays $50-675. 
Photos: By assignment only. 
Columns/Departments: By assignment only. 
a 
Pedah ep ep 
tare 
CLINTON ST. QUARTERLY, David Milholland, Co-Editor; 
Jim Blashfield, Co-Editor; Lenny Dee, 
Co-Editor; Peggy Lindquist, Co-Editor, Box 3588, Portland, OR 97208, 503-222-6039. 
1979. 
Fiction, articles, cartoons, interviews, satire, non-fiction. “The CSQ features an eclectic blend of 
writing on politics, art, and the times we live in. We,are especially interested in writing which 
explores intense presonal experience and offers ways for others to understand and relect on it. Most 
of ur writers come from or live in the Western U.S. though we’re looking for the best work we can 
obtain from any source. We don’t give a hoot about credentials—july talent” circ. 50M. 4/yr. Pub’d 
4 issues 1984; expects 4 issues 1985, 4 issues 1986. sub. price: $6; per copy: $2; sample: $2. Back 
issues: all issues after first year available for $2 each. 48pp; 11 x 17; of. Reporting time: 2 weeks-2 
months. Payment: range is from $40-$150. Copyrighted, reverts to author. Pub’s reviews: 8-10 in 
1984. §Contemporary political issues, sex and sexism, writing about the Western U.S., small/med. 
press novels, humor, U.S. involvements abroad. Ads: $500/$300/wnite for ad rates and contract 
discounts. 
—International Directory of Little Magazines and Small Presses 
1986; 1,043 pp. 
$19.95 
($21.95 postpaid) from: 
Writer’s Digest Books 
9933 Alliance Road 
Cincinnati, OH 45242 
or Whole Earth Access 
The International 
Directory of 
Little Magazines 
and Small Presses 
Len Fulton and 
Ellen Ferber, Editors 
1986; 702 pp. 
$20.95 
($24.95 postpaid) from: 
Dustbooks 
P. O. Box 100 
Paradise, CA 95969 
or Whole Earth Access 
