36 
Sensitive Chaos 
(The Creation of Flowing 
Forms in Water and Air) 
Theodor Schwenk 
OUT OF PRINT 
Schocken Books, Inc. 
Tao Te Ching 
Lao Tzu/Gia-Fu Feng and 
Jane English, Translators 
1972; 160 pp. 
$10.95 
($11.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House / 
Vintage Books 
Order Department 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
Tao Teh King 
Lao Tzu 
Archie Bahm, Translator 
1958; 126 pp. 
$4.95 
($6.95 postpaid) from: 
The Ungar Publishing Co. 
370 Lexington Avenue 
New York, NY 10017 
or Whole Earth Access 
A In the open sea mighty vortices can arise in which the 
whole dynamic force of the suction centre becomes visible. 
Sensitive Chaos 
The ways that flowing forms our heart, cyclones, rivers 
and bird flight. How we flowed as embryos and our 
bones still spiral and loop with the markings of past eddy 
movements. Here is spiritual guidance in the greatest 
book of Jungian-Taoist history. 
—Peter Warshall 
Schocken Books has received numerous requests to 
reprint this classic book, they tell us. Look for a new edition 
sometime in 1987 or ‘88. Until then, go to the library. 
—Jeanne Carstensen 
e 
Together earth, plant world and atmosphere form a single 
great organism, in which water streams like living blood. 
The activity of thinking is essentially an expression of 
flowing movement. Only when thinking dwells on a 
particular content, a particular form, does it order itself 
accordingly and create an idea. Every idea — like every 
organic form — arises in a process of flow, until the 
movement congeals into a form. Therefore we speak of 
a capacity to think fluently when someone is skillfully 
able to carry out this creation of form in thought, har- 
moniously coordinating the stream of thoughts and 
progressing from one idea to another without digres- 
sion — without creating ‘’whirlpools.’’ 
<When water flows through an opening into still water, 
the vortices form a rhythmical pattern. 
Tao Te Ching 
Taoists watched water; opened their hearts and minds to 
water’s teachings; took water as an ally in understanding. 
Their aqueous attitude washed out preconceived notions 
of religious righteousness; dissolved rigid ways of viewing 
the universe; liquefied frozen ambitions, social convictions, 
ideals and hopes. The elegance of Taoism was taking 
humans from their everydayness but not to grace, being 
and nothingness, or samsara — simply to water, the liquid 
center of nature. 
The Tao Te Ching has many translators. Archie Bahm’s is 
more fortune cookie than others. Orville Schell, who reads 
Chinese, recommends Gia-Fu Feng’s translation. 
—Peter Warshall 
e 
Nothing is weaker than water; 
Yet, for attacking what is hard and tough, 
Nothing surpasses it, nothing equals it. 
The principle, that what is weak overcomes what is strong, 
And what is yielding conquers what is resistant, 
Is known to everyone. 
Yet few men utilize it profitably in practice. 
But the intelligent man knows that: 
He who willingly takes the blame for disgrace to his 
community is considered a responsible person, 
And he who submissively accepts responsibility for the 
evils in his community naturally will be given enough 
authority for dealing with them. 
These principles, no matter how paradoxical, are sound. 
—Tao Teh King 
Future Water 
If ever there was a need for circles, it is in sewage treat- 
ment. For centuries, we have taken our rivers, run them 
through our homes, added our fertile fecal nutrient, then 
run our sewage into rivers or the sea. This downhill, linear 
mind has been destructive to our land, waters and mental 
wholeness. This is a very important book written by two 
men who have dedicated a good part of their lives to 
looping city ‘‘wastes’’ back to farm productivity. For those 
interested in farms, cities, water, land, private vs. public 
sector politics, water and sewage bills, visions for a future 
structured with institutions that benefit humans 
. 
. 
. read it. 
—Peter Warshall 
Future Water: John R. Sheaffer and Leonard A. Stevens, 1983; 
269 pp. $14.95 ($16.45 postpaid) from Wilmor, 6 Henderson 
Drive, West Caldwell, NJ 07006 (or Whole Earth Access). 
The wastewater streams of our troubled cities contain 
tons and tons of potential resources, or raw materials. 
This valuable cargo is generally dumped, in whole or in 
part, into waterways and lakes where it reduces water 
quality, damages essential aquatic life and diminishes 
recreational opportunities. If these raw materials were 
reclaimed through circular systems and used in the pro- 
duction sector of the nation’s economy, it would result in 
new sources of goods and services, and the current costs 
of conventional sewage disposal would be eliminated. 
From these reclaimed materials we can have fertilizer for 
growing food and fiber, methane to generate electricity 
and other energy sources, as well as clean water safe to 
reuse. Finally these investments in resources that would 
otherwise be thrown away can produce new revenues, 
which are badly needed to restore today’s deteriorating 
water and wastewater systems. The job can be done by 
traditional financing of private ventures — perhaps 
organized as a form of public utility — to do for profit 
what the clean water laws of the 1970s failed to do 
through government construction grants. 
¢ See what we mean by a great textbook. Academic in the 
best sense, with a deep reverence for water’s ways. 
Water in Environmental Planning: Thomas Dunn and Luna 
Leopold, 1978; 818 pp. $47.95 (849.45 postpaid) from W. H. 
Freeman & Co., 4419 W. 1980 South, Salt Lake City, UT 
84104 (or Whole Earth Access). 
¢ See also ‘’Household Water’ (pp. 138-139) and 
“Watershed Care’’ (p. 34). 
