126 
Building the 
Alaska Log Home 
Tom Walker 
1984; 178 pp. 
$19.95 
($20.95 postpaid) from: 
Alaska Northwest 
Publishing Company 
130 2nd Avenue South 
Edmonds, WA 98020 
or Whole Earth Access 
Timber Frame 
Construction 
Jack Sobon and 
Roger Schroeder 
1984; 204 pp. 
$12.95 
($14.95 postpaid) from: 
Garden Way Publishing 
Storey Communications 
Pownal, VT 05261 
or Whole Earth Access 
Practical Pole 
Building 
Construction 
Leigh Seddon 
1985; 183 pp. 
HOUSEHOLD 
BIG-WOOD BUILDING 
Building the Alaska Log Home 
Why should an Alaska log home be any different? 
Maybe it’s the fierce individualism that seems to per- 
meate anything that has to do with Alaska — folks go 
there to do things their way. Maybe it’s the irrefutable 
climate — you have to be right or you freeze. The homes 
shown here, in enticing color, are masterpieces of the log- 
smith’s art. No funky miner’s cabins for these folks. The 
book isn’t funky either; it’s surprisingly slick and includes 
lots of Alaska bush-living lore mixed in with the competent 
instruction. Yet the author carefully avoids the usual log 
home fantasy hype. He makes it sound like the hard work 
it most assuredly is. 
—JB 
Expertly scribed logs are a tight fit both visually and 
structurally. They stay tight as logs shrink over time. 
<4 The whole idea of scribe-fitting is to match the upper 
log to the shape of the lower log. The scribe, one with a 
double level attachment, becomes an important, almost 
indispensable tool here. With it, the logsmith transfers the 
shape and contour of the bottom log onto the upper log. 
Thus, the quality of the scribe has a great deal to do with 
the efficiency and speed with which this work can be 
done. In essence, we are making a log-long notch, with 
the top log being notched to fit not only at the corners, 
but to the entire length of the log below. The log obviously 
cannot be hewn any better than it is marked. 
Timber Frame Construction 
If you live where big wood is available, timber frame con- 
struction (also called post-and-beam) offers an interesting 
alternative to the usual 2x4 stick building. Done right, 
timber frame buildings are charming, strong, and not 
necessarily more expensive than more common construc- 
tion. The weight of the parts, as well as tradition, makes a 
congenial crew a necessity, which can be fun. This hand- 
some and experienced book will get you started. It covers 
the whole bit from history to how to hold the chisels. The 
complete procedure for making a simple garden shed is 
presented as a practice project — a fine idea. 
—JB 
Practical Pole Building 
Construction 
Why hang a house up in the air on a bunch of poles? The 
biggest advantage of this building method is adaptability 
to otherwise unbuildable sites. Hillsides, unstable soils, 
and flood plains are no problem. In most cases, poles are 
much cheaper than a normal foundation, and since the 
poles, instead of the walls, carry the structural loads, 
dramatic open plans can be accommodated. This book 
tells you how to do it, including calculations. 
—JB 
$9.95 
($11.20 postpaid) from: 
Williamson Publishing 
Company 
oP 
PO, Box 185 
Charlotte, VT 05445 
or Whole Earth Access 
Have your timbers center-cut. This not only makes the 
timber stronger, but it also makes knots less of a problem. 
Why? Knots, since they are branches, start from the middle 
of a tree. Therefore, they will not go from one side of the 
tree to the other. A timber taken from a quartered tree 
could conceivably have a knot entirely through it. And 
knots can fall out, thus weakening the timber. 
Temporary braces are applied to the bent to stabilize it. 
The opposite wall bent, lying in the foreground, is next. The 
remainder or the timbers are carefully stacked according 
to their placement in the frame. 
e A magazine devoted to (guess what) log building. The 
winter issue is a massive directory of logsmiths and kits. 
Log Home Guide For Builders & Buyers: Doris L. Muir, 
Editor; $18/year (5 issues) from Muir Publishing Co., Ltd., 
P.O. Box 1150, Plattsburgh, NY 12901. 
¢ Ken Kern has a pole building book. See p. 120. 
