HEALTH 
234 
How It Feels 
to be Adopted 
Jill Krementz 
1982; 107 pp. 
$12.95 
($13.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
Order Dept. 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Adoption 
Resource Book 
Lois Gilman 
1984; 318 pp. 
$7.95 
($8.35 postpaid) from: 
Harper and Row 
2350 Virginia Avenue 
Hagerstown, MD 21740 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Adoption 
Triangle 
Arthur D. Sorosky, M. D., 
Annette Baran, M. S. W., 
Reuben Pannor, M. S. W. 
1984; 237 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Doubleday & Co. 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth Access 
ADOPTION 
How It Feels to be Adopted 
Jill Krementz has created a wondertul book in this collec- 
tion of revealing portraits of nineteen adopted children. 
Ranging from eight to sixteen years in age, the children 
talk candidly about their experiences and feelings. Some 
were adopted at birth, some first lived in foster homes, 
some have single parents, some are in transracial homes, 
and some have made the journey from other countries. 
This book offers prospective adoptive parents the valuable 
opportunity to look down the road and anticipate at least 
some of the feelings their child(ren) will encounter. An ex- 
cellent book to give an adopted child who will discover 
that other adopted children share the same yearnings, 
fears and joys. The photographs of the children and their 
families tell stories of relationships touched with 
tenderness and pride. The images linger long afterward. 
—David and Mary Lee Cole 
@ 
| guess the hardest thing for me in the first year was 
when | had to go back to the agency for follow-up visits. 
| was always terrified that | would see my other mother 
there and she would want to take me home with her 
Melinda, age 10, 
and her adoptive 
parents. 
again. That’s because when | was in foster care we had 
monthly visits — my mother and | — in the playroom at 
the agency. 
Sometimes | think about my first mother — like | wonder 
if she’s lonely and if she’s worked out all her problems. | 
hope she has a better life. It must be hard for her not to 
have her kids and it would be nice if the agency people 
told her what a happy life Lauren and | have now. Now 
that the adoption is final, I’d like to see her again. | still 
remember what she looks like — she has short brown 
hair and brown eyes and she looks just like me. 
The Adoption Resource Book 
Written by a librarian and an adoptive parent, this is a 
thoroughly detailed introduction to the ‘‘hows”’ of adoption. 
Gilman explains how agencies work, how intercountry 
adoptions are arranged, how to find a child independently, 
and how to answer the inevitable questions from parents, 
friends, and your adopted child once you have adopted. 
She explains the requirements, procedures, and paper- 
work involved in the alternative methods of adopting, and 
illustrates each method with brief anecdotes. The book 
includes both an extensive annotated bibliography and a 
directory of agencies and services. Those looking for basic 
information will find it here, plus some perspective on 
how adoption has changed in the last fifteen years. 
—David and Mary Lee Cole 
e 
If you legally adopted your child abroad, the adoption 
is valid. Still, most adoption authorities recommend as 
an additional safeguard that you readopt your child in 
the United States under the laws of your state. This will 
also give you readily available evidence of the validity 
of your child’s adoption. Some states may not permit 
readoption, so check locally to see if this can be done. 
If your child left his or her country of birth under a guard- 
ianship, not a final adoption, then you must adopt 
in the U.S. 
Maternity leaves and adoption leaves are clearly treated 
differently by employers. The parent group FACE turned 
up,some basic facts about leaves in a survey they con- 
ducted. FACE found that 95 percent of the employers 
surveyed had a policy allowing biological maternity 
leave, while only 39 percent had an adoption leave. 
Three-fourths of the employers provided paid maternity 
leaves, while less than a quarter offered paid adoption 
leaves. The rationale for offering paid leave for maternity 
and unpaid leave for adoption rested on the premise that 
pregnancy created a physical disability, while adoption 
did not. Most employers had health-insurance programs 
covering pregnancy expenses; only two employers pro- 
vided adoption benefits. 
The Adoption Triangle 
Written in something of an academic style, The Adoption 
Triangle nevertheless provides important insights into the 
process of adoption and how it affects all those involved: 
the triangle of children, birth-parents, and adoptive par- 
ents. Unlike other books listed here, this one was written 
by professionals in the field of social work and adoption 
with the intention of affecting public policy and private 
practice. The author’s advocacy of open adoption, radical 
at the time of the book’s first edition in 1978, is now wide- 
ly supported. Readers will continue to find the book useful 
for its exploration of the strong and complex emotions felt 
by everyone involved in adoption. 
—David and Mary Lee Cole 
Taking a child from one set of parents and placing 
him/her with another set, who pretend that the child is 
born to them, disrupts a basic natural process. 
@ 
Very few adoptees are provided with enough background 
information to incorporate into their developing ego and 
sense of identity. The adoptive parents are reluctant to 
impart known information, especially any of a negative 
nature, that might hurt the child. The adoptees in turn 
are often reluctant to ask genealogical questions because 
they sense their parents’ insecurities in these areas. In- 
formation given to adoptive couples at the time of adop- 
tion is scanty and usually describes immature, confused, 
adolescent unwed mothers and fathers. 
It is our conviction that adult adoptees should have ac- 
cess to their birth records, if they so desire, when they 
reach the age of eighteen. For those adoptees who are 
determined to find their birth parents, the information 
available in the original birth records may not be suffi- 
cient. In order to avoid situations where adoptees spend 
agonizing years and large sums of money tracking down 
trivial clues, we would support methods to facilitate the 
search. Regional or national registries where adoptees 
and birth parents could indicate their interest in reunion, 
for example, have been suggested. In addition, agencies 
could provide identifying information and reunion ser- 
vices upon request. 
“In a way, | am very angry toward the law. The law still 
refers to me as a child when they refer to ‘in the best in- 
terests of the child.’ | resent that because in my opinion, 
| am twenty-one years old and | feel | am quite old 
enough, mature and responsible enough to be making my 
own decisions. | don’t feel as if any decision concerning 
my life should be left up to a judge or to anyone else.’’ 
