COMMUNITY 
MEDIA TACTICS 105 
NE OF MY FAVORITE STORIES about local politics goes back to the late 1970s, when Abbie 
Hoffman was living under an assumed name in a small town on the St. Lawrence River in 
upstate New York. The way Abbie tells it, he read in the newspaper one day that the Army 
Corps of Engineers had plans to blast a new shipping channel right through the section of 
the river that ran by his home. The project would involve dynamiting several small islands and opening an 
environmentally sensitive stretch of waterway to major shipping. 
Hoffman decided to risk blowing his cover and start fighting the plan. For weeks, he went around and 
knocked on his neighbors’ doors and urged them to write letters opposing the project to the Corps and 
to their legislators. But time after time, the working-class river folk declined to get involved. “They kept 
telling me,” Hoffman explained, “that there was nothing they could do — that nobody paid any attention 
to them. All they knew was that winter was coming and they needed firewood. All they cared about was 
their damn chainsaws.” 
Suddenly an idea came. Hoffman put on a tie, took $20 cash down to the local newspaper and placed a 
classified ad that read: “FREE CHAINSAWS. The Army Corps of Engineers has unexpectedly amassed a 
surplus supply of 200 19-inch chainsaws in top condition, and will give them free to the first 200 citizens 
who send a suitable self-addressed shipping carton with a request letter and postage, to the Army Corps 
of Engineers, Syracuse, NY.” 
Within a week, the Corps office was flooded with hundreds of large shipping crates and letters requesting 
“surplus chain saws.” Nobody could figure out who had placed the ad, or why, but the event attracted 
national media attention. It was also a sensation in Hoffman’s tiny community — everywhere people were 
talking about it. 
That week, Hoffman repeated his doorknocking rounds. But this time, he had a different message. “What 
do you mean, nobody pays attention to you?” he asked. “What about those chainsaws? Look at the fuss 
The Reporter’s 
Handbook 
Investigative Reporters 
and Editors, Inc. 
1983; 504 pp. 
$16.95 
($18.20 postpaid) from: 
St. Martin’s Press 
Cash Sales Dept. 
175 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10010 
or Whole Earth Access 
_ 
you can make just by writing a few letters.” That, of course, was the beginning of a potent citizens’ group 
“Save the River” — and the beginning of the end for the Corps channel widening plans. 
There’s a lesson there for everyone: nothing brings a community to life like a tangible demonstration of its 
own latent power. 
—Tim Redmond 
ee 
TENT eee ESS Ee 
ESS aE 
ea 
The Reporter’s Handbook 
Most good reporting starts when a reporter smells that 
something’s wrong. But you don’t have to be a profes- 
sional reporter to follow your nose. Anyone can help stop a 
local abuse by tracking down the facts, but it often means 
an extended hunt down a trail of paper and interviews. 
This manual for following that trail is an encyclopedic 
directory in itself, listing dozens of documents, agencies, 
and reports that you might never hear about any other 
way. Put together by a group of experienced investigative 
journalists, it’s one of the few college textbooks that’s fun 
fo read. 
—Art Kleiner 
You’re methodically researching your project on the 
ridiculously expensive monorail the county wants to 
build at the new zoo when your editor starts flailing his 
arms and hollering at you. The police desk has an up- 
date on a bust at a disco last night. It turns out they 
found in the back room 10 bales of marijuana, 20 ki- 
los of cocaine and 100,000 Quaaludes. A Colombian 
citizen was among those arrested. 
The cops are cooperating with the Drug Enforcement 
Administration, not with you. They’re giving out nothing 
beyond the arrest sheets. 
There are a hundred unanswered questions: Who owns 
the disco? What else does this person own — land, build- 
ings, cars, boats, airplanes? What's the disco owner’s 
economic background? Has the owner ever been accused 
of a crime? Does the owner use corporations to hide 
behind? Is there a limited partnership involved? Who 
are its investors? How much did they invest? Who’s in 
business with this person? 
Public records will answer every one of those questions 
for you in a few hours. 
The Whole World is Watching 
Todd Gitlin is probably the country’s second-best observer 
(after Abbie Hoffman) of how media manipulates, shapes, 
defines, and creates popular political movements — and 
how those movements can turn the relationship around. 
Nobody involved with politics at any level should be 
without this book. 
—Tim Redmond 
An opposition movement is caught in a fundamental and 
inescapable dilemma. If it stands outside the dominant 
realm of discourse, it is liable to be consigned to mar- 
ginality and political irrelevance; its issues are domesti- 
cated, its deeper challenge to the social order sealed 
off, trivialized, and contained. If, on the other hand, 
it plays by conventional political rules in order to acquire 
an image of credibility — if, that is, its leaders are well- 
mannered, its actions well-ordered, and its slogans spe- 
cific and ‘‘reasonable’’ — it is liable to be assimilated 
into the hegemonic political world view; it comes to be 
identified with narrow (if important) reform issues, and 
its oppositional edge is blunted. This is the condition of 
movements in all the institutions of liberal capitalism; one 
major site of the difficulty lies within the mass media. 
A look at the other photos UPI sent out that day to its 
subscribers, including the Times, throws the Times’ choice 
into especially sharp relief. | retrieved the five other April 
17 photos from UPI’s archives. Two show a mass of antiwar 
pickets carrying signs bearing readable slogans... ; one 
shows a large mass at the antiwar rally at the Washington 
Monument; and the other two give an accurate sense of the 
degree to which the antiwar people outnumbered the coun- 
terdemonstrators. All five were, in formal terms, printable; 
the pictures of the picketers with their signs were elegantly 
composed, with high contrast and good formal balance. 
But the effect of the photo the Times chose was visually to 
equate the antiwar and right-wing demonstrations, and to 
give the impression — since the photographed segment of 
the two picket lines were identical in length — that they 
were equally large. 
The Whole World 
is Watching 
Todd Gitlin 
1980; 327 pp. 
$9.95 
($11.45 postpaid) from: 
University of 
California Press 
2120 Berkeley Way 
Berkeley, CA 94720 
or Whole Earth Access 
Rot be. 
BRR 
Rie ononk: 
From the New York Times, 
Sunday, April 18, 1965, 
page 1. 
