HEALTH 
208 
A Guide 
to Physical 
Examination 
(Third Edition) 
Barbara Bates, M.D. 
1983; 561 pp. 
($37.45 postpaid) from: 
Harper and Row 
2350 Virginia Avenue 
Hagerstown, MD 21740 
or Whole Earth Access 
Current Medical 
Diagnosis & 
Treatment 
Marcus A. Krupp, 
Milton J. Chatton, and 
Lawrence M. Tierney, Jr., 
Editors 
1986; 1,166 pp. 
$29.50 
($32.50 postpaid) from: 
Lange Medical Publications 
Drawer L 
Los Altos, CA 94023 
or Whole Earth Access 
Worker’s Trust 
Information free from 
Worker’s Trust 
P.O. Box 11618 
Eugene, OR 97440 
MEDICAL SELF-CARE 
A Guide to Physical Examination 
Lange’s Current Medical Diagnosis and Treatment (below) 
is an excellent reference, but it must be used in conjunction 
with a carefully taken medical history and careful physical 
examination. It’s necesssary to know what you’ 
re treating. 
When you have the patient’s signs and symptoms in hand, 
then you go fo Lange or any of the numerous other texts. 
May | please recommend A Guide to Physical Examina- 
tion? This excellent book is the central core for most courses 
in physical diagnosis. It is in a large, well-illustrated format 
with an excellent discussion of the art of interviewing pa- 
tients so that they give the story. Each system of the body 
is arranged by chapter, techniques for examination are 
outlined without jargon, and abnormal findings are noted 
in red in the margin. 
It is interesting to note that while M.D. training may spend 
one to two weeks covering the material outlined in Bates’ 
book, physician assistants’ training devotes four to five 
months on the same... 
. 
This book will be useful to anyone interested in any aspect 
of the health sciences — imagine studying mechanics with- 
Although transillumination is not part of a routine exami- 
nation, it is often helpful when sinus tenderness or other 
symptoms suggest sinusitis. The room should be thoroughly 
darkened. Using a strong, narrow light source, place the 
light snugly deep under each brow, close to the nose. Shield 
the light with your hand. Look for a dim red glow as light 
is transmittted through the air-filled frontal sinus to the 
forehead. Absence of glow on one or both sides suggests a 
thickened mucosa or secretions in the frontal sinus, but 
it may also result from developmental absence of one 
or both sinuses. 
out an idea of where to find the car’s motor! 
—John Benecki, P.A. 
(SSA 
FIR TR OS 
FP 
SS 
BET 
OE EDS SDE IE 
STE 
a 
ED 
Current Medical 
Diagnosis & Treatment 
This is probably the single most useful medical reference 
book you can own. With it you can do two things: you 
can begin to understand your illness or injury, and — 
more important perhaps — you can decide whether your 
doctor understands it. Is your doctor current? Has she 
(he) diagnosed and treated your condition according to 
the latest medical research? Here’s where you find out. 
Being the book doctors use, it’s dense and comprehen- 
sive, and takes a little work from the lay reader. It’s abso- 
lutely worth the effort. It’s updated every year and offers 
not just diagnosis of almost every known medical malady 
from dandruff through toenail atrophy but also prognosis 
(how long it'll last), standard treatment, and short 
bibliographies for further research. It’s the most used 
book at Planetree Health Resource Center (p. 207). 
(Keep in mind, though, that CMD is a standard reference, 
very much rooted in AMA-style medicine. Hence you’ll 
find recommended such therapies as shock treatment and 
tranquilizers). _ —Joe Kane [Suggested by Planetree] 
Sinus Infection 
Acute: 
¢ History of acute upper respiratory infection, dental 
infection, or nasal allergy. 
e Pain, tenderness, redness, swelling over the involved 
sinus. 
¢ Nasal congestion and purulent nasal discharge. 
¢ Clouding of sinuses on x-ray or transillumination. 
e Fever, chills, malaise, headache. 
Worker’s Trust 
When the Whole Earth crew decided to have health- 
insurance, we looked for a company that had low prices, 
good coverage (including nontraditional care), and com- 
pany attitudes that were similar to ours. Worker’s Trust is 
all of these. It’s owned and controlled by members, and 
invests its money in socially responsible enterprises. They 
only insure workers in democratically run organizations 
like their own. Our experience with them has been good. 
My experience with them has been good; they promptly 
paid my recent claim with no crap at all. 
—JB [Suggested by David Cohn] 
© Teeth hurt or feel “long’’ (maxillary sinusitis), or 
swelling occurs near the nasal canthus of the eye 
(ethmoid sinusitis). 
General Considerations 
Acute sinus infection usually follows an acute upper 
respiratory infection, swimming or diving, dental abscess 
or extractions, or nasal allergies, or occurs as an exacer- 
bation of a chronic sinus infection. 
Clinical Findings 
Symptoms and Signs: 
Acute sinusitis — The symptoms resemble those of acute 
rhinitis but are more severe. There is headache and 
facial pain, tenderness and swelling with nasal obstruc- 
tion, and a purulent nasal and postnasal discharge, 
sometimes causing sore throat and cough. The headache 
typically is worse during the day and subsides in the 
evening. Acute maxillary sinusitis may cause pain in the 
teeth and a feeling of “long teeth.’’ Acute ethmoiditis 
causes headache between and behind the eyes, and eye 
motion increases the pain. Tenderness medially in the 
roof of the orbit occurs with frontal sinusitis. Fever and 
systemic symptoms vary with the severity of the infection. 
Treatment 
Acute Sinusitis: Place the patient at bed rest and give 
sedatives, analgesics, a light diet, and fluids. Oral nasal 
decongestants (eg. phenylpropanolamine, 25-50 mg 
3 times daily) and systemic antibiotics frequently produce 
prompt resolution of the infection. Ampicillin or erythro- 
mycin, 1-2 g/d, is most commonly used. Other antibiotics 
may be used as determined by culture and sensitivity 
testing. 
Local heat, topical nasal decongestants (eg 0.25% 
phenylephrine), and gentle spot suctioning of the nasal 
discharge are helpful. 
The sinuses must not be manipulated during the acute 
infection. Antrum irrigation is of value after the acute in- 
flammation has subsided. Acute frontal sinusitis is treated 
medically and conservatively; cannulation is rarely war- 
ranted. Trephining of the sinus floor may occasionally be 
indicated in acute fulminating infections. Acute ethmoid 
infections respond to medical management; if external 
fluctuation develops, incision and drainage are indicated. 
Prognosis 
Acute infections usually respond to medical management 
and irrigation. 
