CRAFT 
162 
The Gougeon 
Brothers on 
Boat Construction 
(Wood and WEST 
SYSTEM Materials) 
1985; 297 pp. 
$24.50 postpaid; 
WEST SYSTEM 
Product Catalog 
free; 
WEST SYSTEM 
Technical Manual 
31 pp. 
$2 postpaid 
All from: 
Gougeon Brothers, Inc. 
P. O. Box X-908 
Bay City, MI 48707 
Livos Organic 
Wood Finishes 
Catalog free from: 
Livos 
614 Agua Fria Street 
Santa Fe, NM 87501 
Devcon 
Catalog and nearest 
dealer location 
free from: 
Devcon Corporation 
30 Endicott Street 
Danvers, MA 01923 
or check your local 
industrial supply dealer. 
SUPPLIERS 
The WEST SYSTEM 
This system is a well-worked-out method of “‘cold 
molding’’ wood into complex shapes that would otherwise 
be difficult to accomplish. The completed item is a 
laminate of thin wood strips or sheets, and epoxy resin; 
it’s light, strong, and not subject to the bane of conven- 
tionally used wood: rot. If you like, the work can be finished 
“‘bright’’ (natural) bringing out the beauty of the wood, 
but purists insist that the WEST SYSTEM is mostly plastic. 
In truth, the end result is a bit of both plastic and wood — 
the best of both. A more valid criticism is that the epoxy is 
dangerously toxic to work with. No two ways about it, 
you must be careful. Proper procedures are well devel- 
oped in this literature, and seem to work OK if followed 
with discipline. 
To me, the most interesting aspect of cold molding is that 
it need not be used only for boats. I’ve seen car bodies, 
aircraft, windmill blades, furniture (Fine Woodworking 
March/April ‘86 [p. 74] has a detailed article on cold 
100 — MENDING/EVALUATION 
KIT — Complete compact case is ideal to 
have for emergencies. Contains — 2.5 
Ibs. 105 resin, .5 Ib. 205 hardener, 4 oz. 
solvent cleaner, 20’ graphite fibers, 1 bag 
403, 1 bag 406, 1 bag 409, 6 mixing 
pots, mixing sticks, applicator brushes, 1 
squeegee, 1 syringe, 2 pr. gloves, 
mini-pumps, 5 oz. tube skin cleanser, 1 
yd. 6" glass tape. 
ship. wt. — 8 Ibs. kit 
molding a wonderful cradle), and even parts of houses. 
The technique is easy to learn and not awfully expensive. 
Basics are nicely laid out in the booklet, The WEST SYSTEM 
Technical Manual. A hardbound book, The Gougeon 
Brothers On Boat Construction, is the latest collection of 
the brothers’ experience and that of others using the WEST 
SYSTEM. Proper detailing of joints and other structural 
matters is well developed now, and herewith presented in 
a way that is easily understood and adaptable to other 
ends. The WEST SYSTEM catalog makes the necessary 
materials and accoutrements available. 
| can vouch that it all works. 
Plywood ponels spread out to designed ong/e 
Tighten 
loose wires 
by 
pushing down 
on the 
center here 
Tightening wires 
at keel joint. 
—The Gougeon 
Brothers on Boat 
Construction 
Tighten by further 
omistitg here 
ove 
Livos Organic Wood Finishes 
Wood finishing is one of those places where nasty chemi- 
cals and nice people tend to meet intimately. If this has 
bothered you, a choice is now available. These finishes 
have no petroleum distillates, lead, or other carcinogen- 
ically suspicious substances — they’re entirely brewed 
from plantstuffs. They don’t evaporate or otherwise get 
into your environment even through direct contact. 
Sounds good to me, though | have not tried any (yet). 
Obviously it’s a fine idea. German-made. 
—JB 
VINDO-ENAMEL PAINT #4000 
TECHNICAL INFORMATION: 
SURFACE HARDENING, protecting and water resisting capacities. 
APPLICATION 
is similar to common paints. VINDO can be applied by brush, 
spraying and in some cases by dipping. For spraying purposes VINDO can be 
thinned up to 30% with LIVOS-Natural Citrus Thinner *7222. For highest quality 
finish, sanding between coats and steel wooling is recommended. Sanding 
should only be undertaken when paint is completely dried. 
TEN COLORS, derived from earth pigments with the exception of green and 
blue, being derived from non-toxic minerals. A large variety of pastel or 
medium dense colors can be obtained by mixing VINDO White “4091 with 
LIVOS Earthen and Mineral Stain Pastes or for larger quantities with any of the 
other colors of VINDO. 
COMPONENTS are a concoction of weather resistant plant resins and dryable 
plant oils as binders, titan white from recycle process finely dispersed in above 
binders, earten and mineral pigments, lead free natural dryers and evaporative 
dryable plant oils as thinners. No chemical additives such as stabilizers, preser- 
vatives or mineral spirits. 
COVERAGE approximately 100 square feet 
/ 
Liter. 
DRYING TIME can vary from 8 to 24 hours, depending on percentage of mix- 
ture with thinner #7222, climate, materials used and method of application. 
LIVOS research has improved the formula for faster drying capacity, however, 
the drying time is longer than that of common products. 
; 
* VINDO has been approved to be saliva and perspiration proof according to 
the West German Industrial Norm DIN 53160. 
Devcon 
One way to conserve energy and resources is to fix things 
that break rather than throwing them away. The Devcon 
Corporation makes a wide variety of products that can 
solve some very nasty repair problems as well as increas- 
ing the life of various hardware. Typical are Plastic Steel 
and Plastic Aluminum. A far cry from their sissy hardware 
store counterparts, they are super strong and you can (for 
instance) repair engine blocks. Devcon makes a paint 
called “’Z’’ that actually outperforms hot dip galvanizing 
(Milspec, no less). Devcon Rubber repairs split rubber 
boots better than anything else I’ve seen. They make a 
wear-resistant self-lubricating epoxy compound that can 
be used to make long-wearing bearing surfaces in wood. 
(It can also be used to build up worn shafts.) The list goes 
on. I’ve used all this stuff and find it to be at least as 
good as Devcon says. Not many companies are worthy 
Floor Patch 
Silica-filled epoxy for patching and resurfacing small areas of 
damaged floors, walks. 
Consistency and workability of concrete. 
C) Compression strength three times that of concrete. 
Bonds to new and old concrete, brick, wood and masonry. 
CL Color additive is supplied to achieve color of concrete. 
these days. This one is. You'll probably have to get their 
products from an industrial supply house. The catalog 
is available there too. 
—JB 
Plastic Steel 
putty for pipe 
repair. 
ST 
REA 
IS 
IT NTS 
PS 
SO 
TIES, 
¢ See Canoecratt (p. 283) and Wood Finishing (p. 165). 
e If it’s good enough for chapped cow teats, think of how 
nice it’d be for chapped hands (and cheeks). 
Bag Balm: $3.80 (10 ounces), information free from Dairy 
Association Co., Inc., Lyndonville, VT 05851. 
