Stage VI 
394 
LEARNING 
YOGA 
Sirshasana — Stage VII 
—Integral Yoga Hatha 
Integral Yoga 
Hatha 
Yogiraj Sri 
Swami Satchidananda 
1970; 189 pp. 
$9.95 
($11.95 postpaid) from: 
Henry Holt & Co. 
521 Fifth Avenue, 12th floor 
New York, NY 10175 
or Whole Earth Access 
Light On Yoga 
B. K. S. lyengar 
1976; 544 pp. 
$12.95 
($13.95 postpaid) from: 
Schocken Books 
62 Cooper Square 
New York, NY 10003 
or Whole Earth Access 
SK someone what yoga is all about and their most likely response will have to do with people doing head- 
stands and other physical stuff. It’s an interesting case of the tail wagging the dog, for way back when it 
all began the physical postures, or asanas, were only a small part of the main affair. Some two millennia 
ago Patanjali, whose work marks the first clear beginning of what is known today as yoga, produced 
the yogic sutras, a series of short aphorisms which formulate ashtanga, or eight limbed yoga. The asanas, 
or hatha yoga, are just one limb, and not one that received much of the founder’s attention. 
Patanjali’s sparse aphorisms were intended to be memorized and handed down verbally by teachers who 
would then amplify with their own comments; thus, in a book they are always accompanied by an inter- 
pretation. The most available volume is How to Know God by Christopher Isherwood and Swami Prabha- 
vananda, and it’s a good introduction to what yoga is all about, which is much more than headstands. 
The word ‘“‘yoga” comes from the same Sanskrit base that gives us our word “‘yoke,” and implies a union 
or harnessing of energies, in this case a discipline or technique for investigating and developing the Self. A 
look at the literature reveals a fully developed philosophy, a way of explaining the world around us and why 
we're here. You might say it’s similar to the Buddhist approach, but a bit less ethereal. Or it could be com- 
pared to some of the basic tenets of Hindu thinking, but since pinning down Hinduism with words and 
logic is like trying to put a puffy white cloud into a plain brown wrapper with a small plastic fork we are 
left with our curiosity, a few source documents like Patanjali, and whatever conclusions we reach on our 
own after going through the commentary and collating it with personal experience. 
Interesting, you say, but perhaps you’re hot to do headstands and perfect that lotus. Let’s get on with it. 
—Dick Fugett 
How to Know God 
How to Know God ($8.45 postpaid) 
(The Yoga Aphorisms 
from: 
of Patanjali) 
Vedanta Press 
Translated by Swami 
1946 Vedanta 
Prabhavananda and 
Place 
Christopher Isherwood —_ Hollywood, CA 
1981; 224 pp. 
90068-3996 
$6.95 
or Whole Earth 
Access 
Integral Yoga Hatha 
e 
Light on Yoga 
The practice of hatha yoga acquaints us with our bodies 
in a slow, precise manner that no sport can offer. Diligent 
pursuit will reward us with a new physical well-being, a 
clearer mind, and most importantly, an inner calm 
unknown before. Hatha is an invaluable tool for develop- 
ing ourselves, one that we can take with us wherever we 
go, like meditation. 
Because it can become more than just an exploration of 
the physical package, a teacher, especially at the begin- 
ning, can give insights that the purely self-taught person 
may miss. A few classes or a retreat can produce rewards 
that more than justify the money spent. 
When it comes to books on the topic there’s a bushel, but 
two could be said to be standards. Integral Yoga Hatha 
has probably started more people then any other, it’s 
simple, clear and well illustrated, and each asana, or 
posture, is also described in writing. If you’d like a closer 
look, there are numerous Integral Yoga institutes around 
the country offering classes in hatha and related topics. 
If you’ve reached advanced levels and enjoy new 
challenge (Beware of Egofeed — hey look, | did a Lotus!) 
then check out Light on Yoga. lyengar is a master of the 
art, and the pictures in the book illustrate his talent. They 
could also be discouraging for the beginner, so don’t 
worry about whether you'll ever be that loose, just ap- 
preciate the incredible possibilities inherent in the human 
structure, and wonder why the rest of us don’t develop 
them. The book also has a superior introduction to the 
entire yogic philosophy. 
—Dick Fugett 
Yoga Journal 
Yoga Journal began 12 years ago as a small, regional 
magazine devoted completely to hatha yoga, but its 
growth and diversification have made it the best known 
voice of the movement. YJ still emphasizes hatha, but ar- 
ticles can range from body work and acupuncture to 
nutrition and martial arts. 
There are also good interviews with people making the 
news, book reviews, and event announcements — which 
are interesting for anyone looking for new directions. 
—Dick Fugett 
Yoga Journal 
Stephan Bodian, Editor 
| 5/year 
(6 issues) from: 
Yoga Journal 
P.O. Box 15203 
Santa Ana, CA 
92705-0203 
ayanasana Eleven: Vatayana means a horse. The pose 
resembles a horse’s face; hence the name. 
—Light On Yoga 
ai
