LEARNING 
390 
a 
oe 
Fortean Times 
Richard J. M. Rickard and 
Paul R. A. de G. Sieveking, 
Editors 
| 2/year 
(4 issues) from: 
BM-Fortean Times 
96 Mansfield Road 
London NW3 2HX 
England 
Mysteries of 
the Unexplained 
The Editors 
of Reader’s Digest 
1982; 320 pp. 
$19.95 
($21.89 postpaid) from: 
Reader’s Digest 
Attn.: Order Entry 
Pleasantville, NY 10570 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Sourcebooks 
William R. Corliss, Editor 
$1 1 .95-S1 8.95 
postpaid; 
information free from: 
The Sourcebook Project 
P. O. Box 107 
Glen Arm, MD 21057 
PARANORMAL 
Fortean Times 
This quarterly exudes a delightful sense of humor and a 
healthy excitement for all things strange and wondertul. 
It carries on in the tradition of Charles Fort, an eccentric 
American writer who in the ‘20s and ‘30s produced four 
books of mysterious occurences combined with whimsical 
cosmic philosophy. Highlighted by entertaining editorial 
commentary, FT features mind-boggling surveys of weird 
events culled from the newspapers of the world, in caf- 
egories like rains of frogs, sea serpents, strange fires, 
religious miracles, out-of-place animals, ice meteors, 
phantom cats, etc. In addition, FT offers eccentric colum- 
nists, odd comic strips, and elegant shoestring design. 
Great fun to read, and a continuing testament to the 
strangeness of our world. 
—Ted Schultz 
e 
The Death of a Wolf Boy 
According to the United News of India (UNI), a wolf 
boy called Ramu died in Prem Nivas, Mother Theresa’s 
Amateur Photo- 
E 
G. Jeremy of 
¢ 
Manselton, 
ea Swansea 
Home for the Destitute and Dying in Lucknow on 18 (or 
202) February 1985. He had developed cramps two 
weeks earlier and had not responded to treatment. The 
report said that he had been captured in a forest in 
1976, aged about 10, in the company of three wolf 
cubs. He was on all fours, had matted hair, nails like 
claws, and his palms, elbows and knees were calloused 
like the pads of a wolf’s paws. He ate raw meat, and 
after his capture he would sneak out and attack 
chickens. He learned to wash and wear clothes, but 
never to speak. 
(AP) Houston (TX) Chronicle, 23+27 Feb. 1985. 
Mysteries of the Unexplained 
Thank God not everything in the universe is explained. 
Some of life’s weirdness will someday be understood, some 
will never be known, and some (probably most) mysteries 
will turn out to be illusory. The wonder of not knowing for 
sure is what is celebrated in this Reader’s Digest compen- 
The Sourcebook Project 
The Sourcebooks are the Encyclopedia Brittanica of the 
unexplained. For over 13 years, physicist and science writer 
William R. Corliss has systematically searched the pages 
of a century’s backlog of scientific journals, extracting 
every report of the bizarre or inexplicable in an exhaustive 
effort to “‘catalog what is not known.”’ His ever-expanding 
database currently encompasses over 30,000 items, 
some of which he’s managed to catalog in his 13-volume 
Sourcebook series; over 20 more volumes are planned. 
The volumes bear titles like Rare Halos, Mirages, Anoma- 
lous Rainbows, and Related Electromagnetic Phenomena; 
Tornados, Dark Days, Anomalous Precipitation, and 
Related Weather Phenomena; and The Sun and Solar 
System Debris. The books are subdivided into a very 
well-planned categorization scheme that is the first cross- 
referenced taxonomy of anomalies. Individual anomaly 
types are rated in two ways: once for reliability of the 
reports, and once for “‘anomalousness,’’ the extent to 
which the phenomenon, if real, violates currently accepted 
scientific theory. Clearly, the Sourcebooks are the ultimate 
reference tool for the strange-phenomena connoisseur. 
The tireless Mr. Corliss also publishes a newsletter, Science 
Frontiers, sent free for the asking. 
—Tled Schultz 
dium of curious and spooky marvels. It’s given me the 
dubious pleasure of being perplexed by mysteries | wasn’t 
even aware of, like spontaneous human combustion (a 
human bursts into flames unaccountably and the body 
consumes itself by its own heat), or stigmata (an affliction 
that causes people to bleed in the manner of Christ’s 
wounds on certain holy days). Not to mention UFOs and 
ball lightning and the usual oddities. 
—Kevin Kelly 
A peerless browse, this collection of fascinating photos 
and sufficiently brief accounts of still-half-understood 
goings-on will give any reader an itchy mind. 
—Stewart Brand 
@ 
An eight-inch globe of ball lightning — about as bright 
as a 10-watt bulb, and giving off no perceptible heat — 
emerged from the pilot’s cabin and floated down the 
aisle of an airliner on a New York-to-Washington flight 
on March 19, 1963, just after lightning had struck the 
plane. Passenger R. C. Jennison was especially struck by 
its perfect symmetry and “‘almost solid appearance.”’ 
(Nature, 224:895, November 29, 1969) 
A Japanese fishing trawler hauled the decomposing body 
of an unidentified sea creature, its long neck dangling, 
from the waters off New Zealand in 1977. 
Ball lightning about 5 meters in 
diameter observed near 
Albany in 1975. 
—Luminous Phenomena 
Waterspout with a long 
horizontal section. 
—Tornados, Dark Days 
®@ Ice Falls or Hydrometeors 
Description. Chunks of ice that fall from the sky that are 
substantially larger than the largest recognized hail- 
stones; that is, more than five inches in diameter or 
weighing more than 2 pounds. The ice pieces may fall 
from a clear sky or they may descend after a powerful 
stroke of lightning. The chunks may be clear ice, or 
layered structures, or aggregations of small hailstones. 
This diversity of structure and meteorological conditions 
suggests that ice falls may have several different origins. 
—Tornados, Dark Days 
