LEARNING 
398 
The Other Bible 
Willis Barnstone 
1984; 742 pp. 
$14.95 
($16.45 postpaid) from: 
Harper and Row 
2350 Virginia Avenue 
Hagerstown, MD 21740 
or Whole Earth Access 
Gnosis 
Jay Kinney, Editor 
$1 5/2 years 
(4 issues) from: 
Gnosis Magazine 
P. O. Box 14217 
San Francisco, CA 94114 
The Classics 
of Western 
Spirituality 
John Farina, 
Editor-in-Chief 
$11.95 
average postpaid price 
from: 
Paulist Press 
997 MacArthur Blvd. 
Malwah, NJ 07430 
WESTERN SPIRITUALITY 
The Other Bible 
For my money this is the most significant sourcebook for 
exploring an alternative Western spirituality since the 
English translations of the gnostic Nag Hammadi Library 
were published. The ancient texts presented here — 
selections from the Dead Sea Scrolls, apocryphal scrip- 
tures, kabbalistic and hermetic texts, and some of the 
Nag Hammadi scriptures themselves — have been pre- 
viously scattered in at least a dozen books of varying 
degrees of availability. In collecting these together and 
writing short introductions for each of the 88 subsections 
of material, editor Willis Barnstone has made it im- 
measurably easier to obtain an overview of the diverse 
spiritual currents at play in the days before orthodox 
Christianity took hold in the West. 
Possession of a mere fraction of the 742 pages of 
material collected here would have led to burning at the 
stake during the Inquisition. It is one of the ironic bless- 
ings of our secular age that books like this are now freely 
available in inexpensive, paperback editions. 
—Jay Kinney 
@ 
The Gospel of Thomas 
These are the secret sayings which the living Jesus spoke 
and which Didymos Judas Thomas wrote down. 
(1) And he said, ‘Whoever finds the interpretation of 
these sayings will not experience death.’ 
(2) Jesus said, ‘’Let him who seeks continue seeking until 
he finds. When he finds, he will become troubled. When 
he becomes troubled, he will be astonished, and he will 
rule over the All.’’ 
The Classics of 
Western Spiritualty 
! can’t praise this series of books too highly. In an ecu- 
menical move transcending that of any other religious 
publisher | can think of, Paulist Press has committed itself 
to publish the most important writings of the key figures of 
western religion. They’ve made it an ongoing series that 
will ultimately comprise as many as eighty volumes. 
These classics include both the famous and the relatively 
obscure, not only in Christian spirituality, but in Jewish, 
Islamic, and Native spiritualities as well. The authors’ 
writings are preceded by a knowledgeable introduction 
giving some biographical information and placing the 
texts in the context of the writers’ times and other works. 
As might be expected with an encyclopedic project such 
as this, each volume is not going to be of equal interest 
to everyone. What's important is that Origen, Julian of 
Norwich, Sharafuddin Maneri, Menahem Nahum, and 
several dozen other mystics and spiritual masters are now 
easily accessible and accorded equal stature. The books 
are all attractively designed, nicely printed, and modestly 
priced, and available individually or by subscription. The 
series, which is now up to fifty volumes, has been going 
for several years at the pace of approximately one book 
a month. If your local library isn’t already acquiring the 
series as they appear, I’d suggest they catch up: books 
such as these are what libraries are for. —Jay Kinney 
e 
And in this he showed me something small, no bigger 
than a hazelnut, lying in the palm of my hand, as it 
seemed to me, and it was as round as a ball. | looked at 
it with the eye of my understanding and thought: What 
can this be? | was amazed that it could last, for | thought 
that because of its littleness it would suddenly have fallen 
into nothing. And | was answered in my understanding: 
It lasts and always will, because God loves it; and thus 
everything has being through the love of God. 
—from Julian of Norwich: Showings 
Gnosis 
Gnosis is the kind of knowledge you get when you meet 
God. Truth. Western spiritual traditions are full of mystics 
who sought this gnosis, this direct experience of the divine. 
But their teachings — Alchemy, Gnosticism, the Kab- 
balah, Mysticism, Magic, Sufism, to name but a few — 
aren’t widely known due to frequent persecution by 
orthodox religious authorities. What is known tends to 
make these traditions seem like strange, primitive islands. 
Former Whole Earth Review editor Jay Kinney has founded 
a magazine called Gnosis to help bring western inner 
traditions back into the light. Westerners in search of spir- 
itual growth and illumination need not borrow the path 
from other cultures; we can look in our own back yard. 
Each issue of Gnosis roots expertly through one theme 
(e.g. Gnosticism, Magic and Tradition) with academic and 
ecstatic voices speaking side by side. | love the feeling of 
guided ferment on these pages; the reader is prodded in- 
to complex learning as the variations and controversies 
within each tradition are allowed to educate about its 
essence. The letters section is packed with impassioned 
and erudite debate. These 50-page texts are meaning in 
the making. 
—Jeanne Carstensen 
Given that most aspects of the magical mythos are quite 
unprovable to the skeptical inquirer, there is a strong 
temptation to write off the whole worldview as a swamp 
of delusion, and some historians of the occult, such as 
James Webb and Ellic Howe, have taken this approach. 
At least two factors lead me to suggest that readers 
withhold judgement until engaging in further study 
themselves. First, the worldview and symbolic universe 
of Western Magic is fundamentally the same as that 
of other forms of Western esotericism: Hermeticism, 
Alchemy, esoteric Freemasonry, Theosophy, and Rosi- 
crucianism. While details and metaphors may differ 
from system to system, they share the same teachings far 
more often than not. If the reader has a working famil- 
iarity with one of those disciplines — and sees value in it 
— chances are that further investigations of High Magic 
will find value there as well. 
Second, as we have come to learn more about Eastern 
paths in recent decades, it has become apparent that the 
same general worldview — including notions of planes 
of consciousness, four (or five) basic elements, discar- 
nate teachers, and so on — applies there as well. Indeed 
the main difference in Eastern and Western esoteric ap- 
proaches may not be one of details so much as one of 
attitude: the East tends to consider such inner realms as 
distractions on the way to Enlightenment, while Western 
esoteric traditions are devoted to their exploration and 
utilization as an integral part of the same spiritual journey. 
