HOUSEHOLD 
i 50 CONSUMER PROTECTION 
Consumer Reports 
No advertisements sully the pages of Consumer Reports; 
consequently no bias sullies their tests and analyses of 
consumer goods and services. CU (as they refer to them- 
selves) best gathers information that’s outright impossible 
to gather yourself, such as the opinions of 250,000 auto 
owners as fo which cars are most reliable and which are 
awful. CU is less convincing when being more subjective 
about such matters as the taste of tomato soup, but some- 
where in each report is what you want and need to know. 
CU sums up the year’s work in their annual Buying Guide 
Issue printed (so typically) in pocket size so you can take 
it shopping with you. It’s free with a subscription. Twice 
each month Consumers Union News Digest brings you 
the latest consumer information as it breaks. Peerless. 
—JB 
e 
Plymouth Voyager 
Passenger van: $9659; 
SE, $9938; 
Consumer Reports 
oe a 
John RoDSe 
ana itor 
ost factors: car, 0.89; options, 0.85. 
‘ 
Destination charge: $465 
$1 
6/year 
7 
The Voyager and Dodge Caravan are twins. 
(1l issues plus the 
On the road. The optional 2.6-liter 4 started and ran 
Buying 
Guide 
is 
j 
ss 
g 
eS 
hat oa 
well. The automatic transmission shifted smoothly; however, 
Consumer Reports 
when it was cold, it occasionally delayed shifts into high 
Buying Guide 
gear. This front-wheel-drive van handled much like a 
Consumer Union Staff, 
typical passenger car in normal driving, but was sluggish 
Editors (Annual) 
and vague in emergency maneuvers. The front brakes 
$5.95 Sarit 
locked a bit too soon, extending stopping distances. 
Both from: 
Comfort and convenience. Exceptionally comfortable 
Consumer Reports 
front seats and driving position. Passenger’s seat is not 
P.O. Box 2886 
adjustable. Fairly comfortable second seat for two. Fairly 
Boulder, CO 80322 
comfortable third seat for two or three. Moderate noise 
level. The Voyager rode more like a car than a truck. The 
ride was pleasant on good roads, but rough on back 
roads. The ride improved when the van carried its max- 
Consumers Union 
News Digest 
Edited by staff of 
imum load. Excellent climate-control system. Very good 
Consumer Reports 
controls and displays. 
$48 year 
A 
SRST 
DR 
A 
TS 
CTE TSR, 
(24 issues) from: 
Consumers Union 
Buyer’s Market 
eae 53 
The hand of Ralph Nader, consumer advocate extraor- 
dinaire, guides this skinny newsletter. But the information 
parkas pa toa m _ (8 distilled and highly useful as it ranges over the nuances, 
WholeParth cess 
outrages, lowdown, and inside dope on the subject selected 
: 
for concentration in each issue. Typical subjects: banking, 
autos, food, complaints. The information is topped with 
a short bibliography. Useful and current. 
—JB 
@ 
Most people rely on recommendations from their friends 
when finding a dentist. This may be good for openers, 
but also get advice from someone who is an expert or 
works closely with those who are. Several sources include: 
The faculty of a University’s School of Dentistry. Many of 
those associated with dental schools are among the best 
dentists and they usually know other top-notch practi- 
tioners. Ask for the name of a faculty member with a 
practice in a convenient location. 
A dental specialist who tends to be interested in preven- 
tive dental care and saving teeth. Try calling an ortho- 
dontist, periodontist or endodontist. An orthodontist 
Buyer’s Market 
is an expert at straightening teeth, the periodontist an 
(oka 
Colewedice 
expert on gum diseases and an endodontist specializes 
4 
in treatment of diseases of the pulp of the tooth (includ- 
$1 Olyear 
ing root canal work). These specialists are good sources 
(10 issues) from: 
of information because they need good sound teeth to 
Buyer’s Market 
work on; they are especially on guard against general 
P. O. Box 19367 
practitioner dentists whose poor work means their 
Washington, DC 20036 
patients will have unsound teeth. 
Major options. 2.6-liter 4, $335. Automatic transmission, 
$502. Air-conditioning, $799. Seven-passenger seating 
package, $368. 
Fuel economy. Mpg with 2.6-liter engine and automatic 
transmission: city, 14; expressway, 30. Gallons used in 
15,000 miles, 725. Cruising range with optional 20-gallon 
tank, 470 miles. 
Bumpers. Dented. Structural damage in rear. Repair 
estimates: front, $516; rear, $566. 
Predicted reliability. Average. 
Last full report. January 1986. 
Satisfaction Guaranteed 
Ever feel like you’ve been had? How to prevent that sorry 
state and what to do if it’s too late is the subject of this 
breezy book. Tactics are laid out move by move, but 
you'll have to supply the chutzpah. If you're willing to do 
that, you have reason to expect a happy ending. The 
author’s expertise is wider than seems possible for one 
lifetime, but apparently he’s successfully dealt with doc- 
tors, lawyers, mechanics, brokers, realtors and mail order 
companies. I’d hate to be on his wrong side; his motto 
must be “‘reasonable but deadly.’ 
—JB 
Satisfaction 
Guaranteed 
Ralph Charell 
1985; 253 pp. 
$14.95 
postpaid from: 
Simon & Schuster 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
or Whole Earth Access 
e@ 
When Big picks up the call, never rub it in by saying ‘| 
thought the secretary said you weren't in.” The idea is 
for Big to want to help you but not to bludgeon him or 
her and thus induce resistance or, equally unproductive, 
have him/her give you apparent agreement followed by 
nonperformance. 
The test was taken and fhe results duly printed out, at a 
cost to my friend of about $200. The doctor then discussed 
the results and cautioned my friend to avoid the foods 
and substances to which he had been ‘‘found” allergic. 
“How can | avoid things like household dust? It’s every- 
where. What about a cure?”’ 
The doctor was not optimistic. 
“How accurate is this test?’’ my friend belatedly asked. 
“About 50 percent.’’ 
“I wish | had known that | could have gotten equally valid 
‘information’ by tossing a coin before | took the test.” 
ESL 
EE ED 
AE EN 
TS 
OT LN ETS) 
* Stand up for your rights! The whole complex mess of con- 
sumer protection laws is presented here along with operating 
instructions — dully but fully. 
The Consumer Protection Manual: Andrew Eiler, 1984; 658 pp. 
$29.95 postpaid from Facts On File Publications, 460 Park 
Avenue South, New York, NY 10016 (or Whole Earth Access). 
