HEALTH 
216 
Sourcebook for 
Older Americans 
Joseph L. Matthews, with 
Dorothy Matthews Berman 
1984; 274 pp. 
$12.95 
($14.45 postpaid) from: 
Nolo Press 
950 Parker Street 
Berkeley, CA 94710 
or Whole Earth Access 
"fhe 
8 
x opHoe 
ve 
fisent 
phanrdboe’ 
The Senior 
Citizen Handbook 
Marjorie Stokell and 
Bonnie Kennedy 
1985; 260 pp. 
$9.95 
postpaid from 
Prentice-Hall Press 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
or Whole Earth Access 
Elderhostel 
Catalog free from 
Elderhostel 
80 Boylston Street 
Suite 400 
Boston, MA 02116 
GROWING OLD 
F WE CAN LET GO OF THE TRITE IMAGE the words evoke, “senior citizen” is actually a lovely 
and respectful appellation. Alex Comfort wrote, ‘“ ‘Old’ people are people who have lived a certain 
number of years, and that is all.” I appreciate the sentiment, but that isn’t quite all: old people are 
people who have had more experience, learned more, seen and felt and, perhaps, understood more 
than young people. A long life deserves to be capped with the honorific “senior” — may we all achieve 
it some day. 
The marketplace is rapidly filling with advice on how to “be” old. Many of these books repeat each other, 
dipping into topics in shallow, even patronizing ways. Older people don’t really need different nutrition or ex- 
ercises merely because of age; common sense holds true at all times. But as we age we do run into a number 
of pragmatic challenges: Medicare, pensions, nursing homes, more frequent chronic illnesses, longer stretches 
of leisure time. Do your research, but take only your own advice. 
It is unfortunate that the government’s provision of basic 
financial support for older people requires 250-plus pages 
to explain, but it does. Given the almost incomprehensible 
nature of the current Social Security and Medicare system, 
anyone using it is best equipped with a tour guide. This 
book, while failing to make a complex system exactly 
simple, explains it in far simpler and more patient lan- 
guage than you will ever hear on the phone — that is, 
if you ever get off hold. 
—Sallie Tisdale 
e 
If you think some of the rules and regulations we've 
gone over so far are a little confusing, you haven’t seen 
anything yet! For sheer dizziness, those that follow take 
the cake. They are best dealt with slowly; read them over 
several times. If they still seem confusing to you, you are 
not alone. When you apply for disability benefits, the 
best way to cut through all these rules is simply to ask 
the eligibility worker: ‘When will | actually receive my 
first check?’’ 
@ 
Before Medicare pays anything under Part B medical in- 
surance, you have to pay the first $75 of covered medical 
bills each year. This is called your deductible. Although 
Medicare is supposed to keep track of how much of your 
deductible you have paid in a given year, it’s a good 
idea for you to keep track, too, so you can make sure 
you've been given accurate credit. Unfortunately, many 
people have found that the Medicare accounting practices 
of the private companies that administer the program 
are not all they should be. 
The Senior Citizen Handbook 
Written by two retired teachers who have sped up with 
age, this encyclopedic book touches on many subjects of 
particular interest to seniors. You'll find good information 
(including current addresses and bibliographies) on such 
disparate matters as pets, spots before your eyes, credit 
discrimination, swindlers, taxes, and senior citizen dis- 
counts. The authors talk as peers, never down, although | 
could wish for more detail on certain medical points. 
A 
—Sallie Tisdale 
Golden Age Passport 
Off to visit the national parks this summer? The national 
government has a bargain for you. If you are over sixty- 
two, stop at a Forest Service office or the first national 
park, monument, or federally owned recreation center 
you come to and get your free Golden Age Passport, 
good from here to eternity. 
The Golden Age Passport will admit you and any family 
or friends in your vehicle to any or all national parks, 
monuments, and recreation areas and give you a 50 
percent discount on fees charged for federal facilities 
and services such as camping, boat launching, and 
parking. (Don’t expect it at privately owned conces- 
sions, however.) 
Sourcebook for Older Americans 
_ Sallie Tisdale 
Elderhostel 
Elderhostel offers an international program of classes 
and seminars for people over 60. (Spouses under 60 and 
companions over 50 are welcome too.) You can study 
aborigine culture in Australia, barns of Vermont, dance, 
religion . 
. 
. it’s an impressive and ever-changing list. The 
prices are low and may include travel fare, room and 
board. Scholarships are available. The catalog is exuber- 
ant, and the people involved seem to share that feeling. 
We hear 100 percent good news about Elderhostel, both 
from “‘students’’ and leaders. 
—JB 
® 
Bermuda Biological Station 
The Bermuda Biological Station is situated on the water’s 
edge in 15 acres of well-kept tropical park, at the 
eastern end of Bermuda, a crescent-shaped chain of 
islands settled by the British in 1609 and located approx- 
imately 700 miles from the eastern United States. The 
nearby town of St. George is rich in history and contains 
many fine examples of traditional Bermudian architec- 
ture. Participants will be housed in rooms in the main 
building and in cottages and apartments around the 
grounds. Access to the main building, dining hall, and 
lecture hall involves a single lengthy flight of stairs. In 
winter, daytime temperatures average in the mid 60s, 
with evenings about 10° cooler. Calm sunny periods 
alternate with brisk bouts of windy weather. By late April 
daytime temperatures rise to the low 70s. As is typical 
of many Bermudian homes, common areas in the main 
hotel buidling and in cottages contain space heaters, but 
bedrooms are unheated. All programs begin at 4:00 pm 
Thursday and end at 10:00 am the following Wednes- 
day. The cost does not include transportation to and 
from Bermuda. 
Program Charge $345. $100 deposit required. 
Feb 27 - Mar 5 #10011-0227 
Bermuda’s Delicate Balance — People and 
the Environment 
Bermuda’s Historical and Architectural Heritage 
SEO 
La SEES VSS ET 
DT TE 
ETE) 
¢ There’s a national organization of old (and young) people 
working for social change related to issues affecting the 
elderly. 
Grey Panther Network: Information free (with SASE) from 
311 South Juniper Street/Suite 601, Philadelphia, PA 19107. 
e Aging needn’t decrease the old libido. 
Love, Sex and Aging: Edward M. Brecher and the editors of 
Consumer Reports Books, 1984; 441 pp. $19.45 ($20.45 
postpaid) from Little, Brown & Co., 200 West Street, 
Waltham, MA 02254. 
