66 
Raw material for the atmosphere. Mayon volcano in the 
Philippines spews gasses into the atmosphere. Volcanic 
gasses are the major source of carbon, nitrogen, and sulfur 
for the atmosphere over geologic time. 
—Ecology 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
ECOLOGY 29 
COLOGY” HAS COME TO MEAN just about anything. Doom-gloom to the end-of-the-world- 
ers. Mystical harmony to the religio-eco-freaks. Grants to the college crowd. The word comes 
from Greek: “Oikos” and “Logos.” “Oikos” means house, or dwelling-place. “Logos” primarily 
means discourse, or “word, thought or speech.” To the early Greeks, “logos” was the moving 
and regulating principle in things (associated with fire-energy), as well as the part of human nature that 
was able to see this ordering energy at work. 
Ecology, at its root and origin, means domestic chatter; talking about where-you-live; feeling out the house- 
hold rules; remaining open and perceptive to the moving and regulating principle of your watershed and/or 
planet home. 
—Peter Warshall 
Why Big Fierce Animals Are Rare 
Ecology is having a kind of personality crisis at the moment 
. 
. 
. feeling bewildered . 
. 
. searching for new harmonies 
amid the raucousness of Nature’s wild ways. It is a healthy 
time. Some even question if there is really a “‘system’’ 
in ecosystem. Life is certainly viewed as more complex 
than simple parallel, melodic lines — like a Bach canon 
— of foxes and rabbits. 
Ecologists must face the new metaphors of music: Nature 
as a 16-track multi-mix; African polyrhythms; raga modes 
or natural dissonance. New, less deterministic harmonies 
of community ecology await human expression. The new 
music will give great weight to the invisible, for example, 
special types of plant biotechnology like C3, C4 and 
CAM metabolism; to a karmic biogeochemistry of each 
community’s soils and to the ability of some bacteria and 
pigeons to orient to their community by magnetism. 
Until then, Colinvaux’s Why Big Fierce Animals Are Rare 
is the only literate book to confront fashionable math and 
information theory with naturalist news. 
—Peter Warshall 
Why should large animals, particularly large hunting 
animals, always be so amazingly rare? . 
. 
. It took nearly 
twenty years for the corporate body of science to come 
up with the answer to the question . 
. . by thinking of 
food and bodies as calories rather than as flesh. 
The ultimate furnace of life is the sun, streaming down 
calories of heat with never-fainting ray. On every usable 
scrap of the earth’s surface a plant is staked out to catch 
the light. In those green transducers we call leaves, the 
plants synthesize fuel. Animals eat those plants, but they 
do not get all the plant tissue, as we know because the 
earth is carpeted brown with rotting debris that has not 
been part of an animal’s dinner. Nor can the animals 
ever get the fuel the plants have already burned. So 
there cannot be as much animal flesh on the earth as 
there is plant flesh. 
This would be true even if all animals were vegetarian. 
But they are not. For flesh eaters, the largest possible 
supply of food calories they can obtain is a fraction of 
the bodies of their plant-eating prey. If one is higher still 
on the food chain, an eater of a flesh-eater’s flesh, one 
has yet a smaller fraction to support even bigger and 
fiercer bodies. Which is why large fierce animals are so 
astonishingly (or pleasingly) rare. 
The grand pattern of life was clearly and directly a con- 
sequence of the second law of thermodynamics. We can 
now understand why there are not fiercer dragons on 
the earth than there are; it is because the energy supply 
will not stretch to the support of super-dragons. Great 
white sharks or killer whales in the sea, and lions and 
tigers on the land, are apparently the most formidable 
animals the contemporary earth can support. 
Ecology 
The science of ecology has suffered from success. It can 
mean many things in the popular mind and seems to 
have emerged all at once as a full blown discipline 
around 1970. One of the best things this college text does 
is take pains to trace the evolution of ecology as a branch 
of science and explain the significant changes it has 
undergone since the early 70s. Colinvaux writes clearly 
and is sparing with the jargon and math unless absolutely 
necessary. He even offers several routes through his book 
for short-course browsers. 
—Richard Nilsen 
* 
The Clementsian view led to attractive systems for classi- 
fying plant communities. In every climatic region there 
was a single climax plant community, the climax forma- 
tion. . 
. 
. All other communities found in the region were 
related to the climax formation as various stages of 
its development. .. 
. 
© The best introduction to the biogeochemical cycle is in 
The Biosphere (p. 10). 
¢ See also Environmental Conservation (p. 45). 
Essential to this point of view is the idea that a community 
is a superorganism, an entity of many species that has 
emergent properties of its own. Realizing that his super- 
organism drew some of its properties from animals as 
well as plants, Clements coined the word biome to 
replace the earlier climax formation for his ultimate 
community unit... 
. 
Clements’ work is still important because it lies at the 
root of many of the political or social movements that 
take their names from ecology in the present day. 
Whenever activists accuse their political or exploiter 
adversaries of ‘‘ecocide’’ they invoke Clements’ 
teachings. They borrow from him the idea that the 
ecosystem of the climax is an organism, saying that 
therefore it can be killed. 
The modern view is that succession is an inevitable 
consequence of the coexistence of plants with different 
strategies . 
. 
. Plants, like all products of natural selection, 
are individualists. This essential truth was argued strong- 
ly even in Clements’ day, most notably by Gleason. But 
the final triumph of Gleason’s individualistic hypothesis 
of succession came only with the concept of species 
strategies in the 1960s. 
> 
Why Big Fierce 
|
Animals Are Rare 
Paul Colinvaux 
1978; 256 pp. 
$7.95 
($8.95 postpaid) from: 
Princeton University Press 
3175 Princeton Pike 
Lawrenceville, NJ 08540 
or Whole Earth Access 
Ecology 
Paul Colinvaux 
1986; 725 pp. 
$32.95 postpaid from: 
John Wiley & Sons 
Order Department 
1 Wiley Drive 
Somerset, NJ 08873 
or Whole Earth Access 
The vegetation at the edge of a pond in temperate latitudes. In the water can be seen 
floating leaves of water plants that are rooted in the bottom mud. In the wet mud at the 
edge is a line of reeds, and behind them bushes and small trees that grow in damp places. 
Well away from the pond, on drier ground, are trees of the local woods. This observation 
gave rise to the hypothesis that these successive kinds of vegetation were succeeding each 
other in time, as the pond filled with sediment and the encircling bands of vegetation 
constricted towards the center. 
