296 COMMUNICATIONS 
NFORMATION: 
any difference 
which makes 
1 a difference. 
—Gregory Bateson 
Godel, 
Escher, Bach 
Douglas Hofstadter 
1979; 777 pp. 
$13.95 
($14.95 postpaid) from: 
Vintage Books 
Random House 
Order Dept. 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Mind’s | 
Douglas R. Hofstadter 
and Daniel C. Dennett 
1981; 501 pp. 
$12.95 
($14.45 postpaid) from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, IL 60016 
or Whole Earth Access 
Grammatical Man 
Jeremy Campbell 
1982; 319 pp. 
$9.95 
postpaid from: 
Simon & Schuster 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
or Whole Earth Access 
Godel, Escher, Bach « The Mind’s | 
The subject of the first book — and the frequent preoccu- 
pation of its deities, mathematician Kurt Godel, artist M.C. 
Escher, composer J.S. Bach, and writer Lewis Carroll — is 
self-reference, what the author calls “‘strange loops’’ or 
“tangled hierarchies.’’ It is the domain of extreme para- 
dox, where math, art, religion (lots of zen in the book, 
honestly employed), and epistemology collide. It is the 
fearless exploration of black holes of the mind. 
Hofstadter set out to make Godel’s Incompleteness Theorem 
accessible to the lay thinker, and happily he succeeds in 
that. Along the way he illuminates a world of music, 
mathematics, computer intelligence (and gossip), and 
philosophy. The book confirms the suspicion I’ve had for 
years that perhaps the most adventurous and fruitful 
human frontier we have these days is the hall of mirrors, 
Lewis Carroll’s looking glass. 
—Stewart Brand 
Hofstadter’s second volume, The Mind's I, is an anthology 
of essays he co-edits that circles through the apparent 
paradoxes of consciousness. Round it goes through chil- 
dren, ant colonies, and large computers. Parable and 
fiction lurk in the book, about the only animals that can 
keep a tentative grip on the circulating elusiveness of 
self-consciousness. 
—Kevin Kelly 
A strikingly beautiful, and yet at the same time disturbingly 
grotesque, illustration of the cyclonic ‘‘eye’’ of a Tangled 
Hierarchy is given to us by Escher in his Print Gallery. 
What we see is a picture gallery where a young man is 
standing, looking at a picture of a ship in the harbor of a 
small town, perhaps a Maltese town, to guess from the 
architecture, with its little turrets, occasional cupolas, and 
flat stone roofs, upon one of which sits a boy, relaxing in 
the heat, while two floors below him a woman — perhaps 
his mother — gazes out of the window from her apart- 
ment which sits directly above a picture gallery where a 
young man is standing, looking at a picture of a ship in 
the harbor of a small town, perhaps a Maltese town — 
What!? We are back on the same level as we began, 
though all logic dictates that we cannot be. Let us draw a 
diagram of what we see. 
What this diagram shows 
is three kinds of “‘in- 
inclusion 
ness.’’ The gallery is 
(physical) 
physically in the town 
(“‘inclusion’’); the town is 
artistically in the picture 
(‘depiction’); the picture 
inclusion 
is Mentally in the person 
(physical) (‘representation’)... 
. 
—Godel, Escher, Bach 
depiction 
(artistic) 
inclusion 
(physical) 
representation 
(mental) 
Examples of memes are tunes, ideas, catch-phrases, 
clothes fashions, ways of making pots or building arches. 
Just as genes propagate themselves in the gene pool by 
leaping from body to body via sperms or eggs, so memes 
propagate themselves in the meme pool by leaping from 
brain to brain via a process which, in the broad sense, 
can be called imitation. If a scientist hears, or reads 
about, a good idea, he passes it on to his colleagues and 
students. He mentions it in his articles and his lectures. If 
the idea catches on, it can be said to propagate itself, 
spreading from brain to brain. 
—The Mind's | 
Grammatical Man 
In the age of information it is shocking that there is so 
little useful information about information — how it be- 
haves, what its economics are, indeed, what it is. A good 
book on the subject would have to talk about the primary 
domains of information: evolution, genetics, computer pro- 
gramming, entropy, whole systems, and human language. 
This book does. It is the only one to encompass 
the whole natural ecology of information in a readable way. 
—Kevin Kelly 
Redundancy makes complexity possible. . 
. 
. The more 
complex the system, the more likely is it that one of its 
parts will malfunction. Redundancy is a means of keeping 
the system running in the presence of malfunction. Redun- 
dancy, von Neumann declared, 
is the only thing which makes it possible to write a text which 
is longer than, say, ten pages. In other words, a language 
which has maximum compression would actually be completely 
unsuited to conveying information beyond a certain degree 
of complexity, because you could never find out whether a 
text is right or wrong. And this is a question of principle. It 
follows, therefore, that the complexity of the medium in 
which you work has something to do with redundancy. 
In a now famous paper published in 1969, the American 
biologists Jack Lester King and Thomas Jukes wrote, ‘“We 
cannot agree. 
. 
. that DNA is the passive carrier of the 
evolutionary message. Evolutionary change is not impos- 
ed upon DNA from without; it arises from within. Natural 
selection is the editor, rather than the composer, of the 
genetic message.” 
The Infinite World of M. C. Escher 
Geometry set at its own throat via the images of dreams. 
—Stewart Brand 
The subjective frontier. 
The Infinite World 
of M.C. Escher 
M.C. Escher 
and J.L. Locher 
1985; 152 pp. 
$14.98 
($16.48 postpaid) from: 
Harry N. Abrams, Inc. 
Attn.: Cash Sales 
100 5th Avenue 
New York, NY 10011 
or Whole Earth Access 
* CS
