190 
The Grass Roots 
Fundraising Book 
Joan Flanagan 
1982; 219 pp. 
($13.95 postpaid) from: 
Contemporary Books 
180 N. Michigan Avenue 
Chicago, IL 60601 
or Whole Earth Access 
Grassroots 
Fundraising 
Journal 
Kim Klein and 
Lisa Honig, Editors 
$20\vear 
(6 issues) from: 
Grassroots Fundraising 
Journal 
P.O. Box 14754 
San Francisco, CA 94114 
2779 
New-Land Foundation, Inc., The 
200 Park Ave., Suite 3014 
New York 10166 
Incorporated in 1941 in New York. 
Donor(s): Joseph Buttinger, Muriel M. 
Buttinger. ¢ 
Financial data: (yr. ended 12/31/82): Assets, 
$9,698,366 (M); gifts received, $42,246; 
expenditures, $1,063,733, including $899,169 
for 123 grants (high: $50,000; low: $500). 
Purpose and activities: Broad purposes; grants 
for civil rights, mental health, environmental 
preservation, arms control and disarmament, 
cultural programs, minority and medical 
education, and social services. 
Types of support awarded: General purposes, 
LIVELIHOOD 
FUNDING 
The Grass Roots Fundraising Book 
¢ Grassroots Fundraising Journal 
Joan Flanagan tells how to put some power in your 
organization's purse, without worrying about strings that 
may be attached to government or foundation grants. 
The book methodically outlines the planning process for 
fundraising 
events of all sizes, from a neighborhood book 
sale to a 
$50-a-plate dinner, and it offers suggestions for 
year-round fundraising like membership dues or setting 
your group up in business. As treasurer of an organization 
struggling to meet a $55,000-a-year budget, | referred to 
Flanagan’s book for both inspiration and nuts-and-bolts 
advice. 
—Nancy E. Dunn 
The journal follows in the book’s footsteps — giving con- 
crete examples of experience and always relating it back 
to the basic issues: Your supporters are the best source of 
funds, and they need to know what you’re doing and that 
you have a role for them that is interesting and useful. 
Details to carry this out range from good mailing-list 
maintenance to imaginative events and persistence. 
—Michael Phillips 
Grass roots fundraising can be a magnet to bring in new 
members. People are naturally more eager to join a 
group of people they have met at a party or pot luck 
dinner. After they have had a chance to meet the folks 
they will feel more comfortable at a business meeting or 
an action. Everyone feels shy in a new group and afraid 
of being different from the old members. The more con- 
troversial your program is, the more timid potential 
The Foundation Directory 
¢ National Directory of 
Corporate Charity 
The most effective way to get grant money is to be 
Highly Visible. 
—Stewart Brand 
The method that works for 95 percent of all successful 
grant applications is to apply to an appropriate agency 
every year for three years. Why three years? They don’t 
trust you until they know you’re established. These two 
reference books will tell you how to find the right agencies 
for your project. 
—Michael Phillips 
The Foundation 
Directory 
Loren Renz 
Sam Sternberg 
1985; 885 pp. 
1984; 500 pp. 
$65 
$80 
($82 postpaid) 
Both from: 
Foundation Center 
79 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10003 
($67 postpaid) 
National Directory 
of Corporate 
Charity 
annual campaigns, seed money, research. 
Limitations: No grants to individuals; no loans. 
Publications: Application guidelines. 
Application information: 
Initial approach: Proposal 
Copies of proposal: 2 
Board meeting date(s): Spring and fall 
Final notification: 2 weeks after board 
meeting 
Write: Robert Wolf, President 
Officers and Directors: Robert Wolf, 
President; Renee G. Schwartz, Secretary- 
Treasurer; Constance Harvey, Hal Harvey, Joan 
Harvey, Anna Frank Loeb, Albert Solnit. 
Number of staff: None. 
Employer Identification Number: 136086562 
(212) 867-5500 
—Foundation Directory 
members may be about joining unless they know a cur- 
rent member. The hoopla and fun of fundraising events 
give the new people a chance to learn who you really 
are in the most pleasant surroundings. 
Always consider which fundraising events will be most 
economical in terms of the volunteers’ time. It is much 
easier and quicker to ask for one $100 donation than it 
is to sell twenty $5 dance tickets or four hundred raffle 
chances for a quarter each. The time of your skilled 
members is your most valuable asset — don’t waste it... . 
It takes thorough research to calculate what will be the 
highest amount you can get from each giver, and it takes 
real courage to ask for it. Boldness pays off. The more 
money you can get from each meeting, the more time 
you will have left to prepare your testimony for the city 
housing committee. | —Grass Roots Fundraising Book 
Make your income and expenses public information. Print 
your budget, and your list of donors in your newsletter, 
and have a financial report at your office available to 
anyone who wants to see it. (Don’t worry about being 
swamped with requests — people generally figure if you 
are willing to be public, you have nothing to hide.) 
If you’re looking for a profitable and fun way to raise 
money, staging your own (legal) kidnapping may be the 
answer. In this ‘“’kidnapping’’ you put one or more peo- 
ple, one at a time, in a “‘cage,’’ holding them there for 
“ransom.” 
Your ‘‘victims’’ should be well known and respected 
people with a good sense of humor who will cheerfully 
go along with your plans. For a church fundraiser, the 
pastor and his wife are good choices, or a church coun- 
cil member, a deacon, the associate pastor, etc. (For 
other groups, choose a city council member, TV per- 
sonality, local music celebrity — the list is endless.) 
—Grassroots Fundraising Journal 
How to Read a Financial Report 
This is not an accounting book. It is a hard-nosed and 
clear analysis of what accounting information can tell you 
about your business, or any business. This understanding 
is vital when considering your needs for a loan or new 
capital, when selling a business or buying one, or when 
trying to cope with business problems. This is the best 
book on this subject, and the only book aimed at intelli- 
gent people with no academic accounting background. 
—Michael Phillips 
How to Read a 
Financial Report 
John A. Tracy 
1983; 161 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
John Wiley & Sons 
Order Department 
1 Wiley Drive 
Somerset, NJ 08873 
or Whole Earth Access 
Behind all the numbers is a simple, vital concept you 
must never lose sight of — cash flow. Business is run by 
keeping money moving. Financial statements report 
where the money came from, where it’s invested for 
the time being, and, most important, how offen it has 
turned over. 
