—Practical Photovoltaics 
HOTOVOLTAIC (PV) PANELS make electricity when the sun shines on them. They do it quietly, 
simply, reliably (at last!), and if not cheaply, at least for less money than last year. They’re already 
competitive with all other nonutility sources of electricity. The price has been steadily dropping, a 
you take inflation into consideration, and will drop further as production rises, which it is. 
= _ Watch a billion dollar industry. being born, folks — PV is coming on line fast. 
—J. Baldwin 
Photovoltaics (PV) 
Practical Photovoltaics presents the theory and practice 
of photovoltaics in a nontechnical manner; read it and 
you'll have good reason to claim you know what you're 
doing. There are complete instructions for assembling 
your own panels from individual cells (which are often 
available at a discount) — a great way to save money. 
The New Solar Electric Home is an update of one of our 
favorite PV books. The new version concentrates on the 
design of complete household PV systems, especially the 
equipment that “‘inverts’’ the low voltage DC power into 
the 110-volt AC power you and your appliances are used 
to. (The author recommends the Heart Interface, a device 
available from most of the suppliers shown on this page.) 
Recent developments make photovoltaic homes truly 
practical for the first time. 
RVers’ Guide to Solar Battery Charging is a finely detailed 
guide to installing PV systems in your motorhome, trailer, 
boat, or cabin. I’ve lived PV-powered for six years now 
and can vouch that this book is what you need to know. 
Wish I’d had it in 1980. 
—JB 
The Sun Frost refrigerator/freezer, very popular with 
homeowners, has now been discovered by RVers because 
of innovations which achieve exceptionally low power 
consumption. The Sun Frost is superinsulated with 3-4 
inches of polyurethane foam. A top-mounted, herme- 
tically sealed compressor runs cool and prevents heat 
from entering the cabinet. A high level of efficiency is 
developed in a “‘low differential’ evaporator coil. . 
. 
. 
Photovoltaic Suppliers 
There are now many competent suppliers of trustable 
equipment. These are a few that | or friends have found 
to be pleasant to work with. Prices vary; you should 
shop around. 
Independent Power Company. Now one of many Photocomm 
dealers, they hawk their wares in this comprehensive and 
educational catalog. They offer complete packaged sys- 
tems for residential power and water pumping, among 
other things. 
Wm. Lamb « Solar Electric Specialties. Send Wm. Lamb 
a letter outlining your needs anywhere in the world, and 
they‘ll make recommendations based on their free engi- 
neering service. No catalog, but they’ll supply what 
they recommend. 
Solar Electric Specialties offers a similar service. 
Solar Electric Systems. Specializes in PV for recreational 
vehicles. Prices are good. They wrote a book too: RVer’s 
Guide to Solar Battery Charging (above). 
PS RE 
BD 
ET SLT EE DE 
¢ Fredson’s RV Supply (p. 271) and the marine supply 
catalogs (p. 289) stock many devices that run on 12-volt DC 
— just what you need in a simple photovoltaic electric setup. 
Its superinsulation allows 24-hour shut-off without 
spoilage. 
Technically, this unit could run on the output of only two 
standard PV panels; however, this would not allow any 
reserve for bad weather. We allow three panels full 
output just for refrigeration. 
—RVers’ Guide to Solar Battery Charging 
A cell can be permanently damaged if a large reverse 
voltage is applied to the electrodes. There is one circum- 
stance under which this reverse voltage condition can 
occur: when one cell is shaded while the rest of the cells 
in a series string are in sunlight. The current through the 
string immediately stops, and the sum of all the open- 
circuit voltages of all the other cells shows up across the 
shaded cell. The resistance heating effect of the current 
can make a cell hot enough to melt the solder connections. 
—Practical Photovoltaics 
Installing a photovoltaic module. 
TSO 
TTT 
EI IE EE LS 
ES 
WindLight Workshop. One of the most experienced 
supplier/experimenters. Windy Dankoff offers this anno- 
tated catalog of PV electricity, making and using hardware. 
Talmage Energy Systems. One of the first Eastern sup- 
pliers. Has lots of experience with New England weather 
conditions. 
—JB 
Independent Power Company: Catalog $5.95 from Catalog 
and Mail Order Center, P. O. Box 649, No. San Juan, 
CA 95960 
Wm. Lamb Corp.: Information free from Wm. Lamb Corp., 
10615 Chandler Blvd., North Hollywood, CA 91601 
Solar Electric Specialities Co.: Information free from Solar 
Electric Specialties Co., P. O. Box 537, Willits, CA 95490 
Solar Electric Systems: Catalog free from Solar Electric 
Systems, P. O. Box 1562, Cave Creek, AZ 8533] 
WindLight Workshop: Catalog $4 from WindLight 
Workshop, P. O. Box 548, Santa Cruz, NM 87567 
Talmage Energy Systems: Catalog $3 from Talmage Energy 
Systems, P. O. Box 497A, Beachwood Road, Kennebunkport, 
ME 04046 
A 
A 
ES 
The PV Network News 
This quarterly newsletter continues to serve as a clearing- 
house for PV knowhow developed by folks using photo- 
voltaics in their daily lives. The product reviews and field- 
proven tips are often way ahead of more formal publica- 
tions not so intimately involved with reality. A feature, 
“Solar Works,”’ is an up-to-date bibliography and source 
list — itself worth the price of the subscription. 
—JB 
PHOTOVOLTAICS 
HOUSEHOLD 
133 
—RVer’s Guide to Solar 
Battery Charging 
Practical 
Photovoltaics 
Richard J. Komp 
1984; 196 pp. 
$16.95 
($18.45 postpaid) 
The New Solar 
Electric Home 
Joel Davidson 
1986; 220 pp. 
$14.95 
($16.45 postpaid) 
RVers’ Guide to 
Solar Battery 
Charging 
Noel and Barbara Kirkby 
1986; 200 pp. 
$11.95 
($13.45 postpaid) 
All from: 
AATEC Publications 
P. O. Box 7119 
Ann Arbor, MI 48107 
or Whole Earth Access 
The PV 
Network News 
A.D. Paul Wilkins, Editor 
$1 5/year, 
includes membership 
(4 issues) from: 
The PV Network News 
Route 2, P. O. Box 274 
Santa Fe, NM 87505 
