| HI, EILEEN!.. FINALLY FIXING 
| OTHER PEOPLE'S CARS FOR MONEY? 
Downtown Thermopolis, 
Wyoming, contains a 
wealth of historic 
structures such as the 
Klink Block that can be 
renovated to ensure 
many more years of 
useful life. 
—Small Town 
The Small Community 
People could probably have very interesting times, 
lifetimes, even, following the precepts laid out in this good 
old (vintage 1942) book. There are definite ways and 
means of developing community, it says — certain things 
are known, and there are rules to play by. 
Author Arthur Morgan wrote forthrightly, with a (now) 
rare sense of assurance about his values. Indeed, his 
elegant sense of honor seems quite out of place amid the 
pragmatisms, corruptions, and complications of our time. 
But his straightforward aspiration to human greatness, 
democratic practice, fine culture, and high ideals, coupled 
with the belief that these aspirations can best be fulfilled 
in the small community, makes resoundingly good sense. 
Because the creation of that context is of such great 
importance, Morgan provides a spare but definitive 
guidebook. He covers a lot of ground, talking about the 
appropriate scale of communities, economic self-reliance, 
skills banks, the importance and liabilities of regional 
planning, and provision for the community welfare, 
among many other topics. The only problem is that it all 
adds up to working in groups, which might tear us away 
from our VCRs and other toys. 
—Stephanie Mills 
| would call this book a recipe for civilization. 
—Kevin Kelly 
Selfishness nearly always is organized in the community. 
Unless unselfishness and public interest also can be 
organized, they can have little chance. 
Where community life is dissolved and the only remain- 
ing sense of social identity is with vast societies, such as 
great nations, serious-minded young people who wish to 
be socially effective often measure their small powers 
against national or world movements, and develop a 
feeling of frustration and futility. On the other hand, 
Small Town 
A little magazine bound to be useful to any community 
large enough to have a town hall. It’s about character, 
controlled growth, and planning. | —Stewart Brand 
One proposal, funded with a grant through the 
Wyoming Main Street Program, provided a 50% match 
for design costs incurred by merchants engaged in 
restorations. This approach gave merchants enough 
incentive to hire professional assistance, but 
simultaneously committed them to complete the project. 
Since the merchants paid 50% of the design costs, little 
public outcry occurred concerning the use of grant funds. 
where they are members of small communities they have 
opportunities to deal with problems within their grasp. 
They can be realists and can be effective within the com- 
munity, and so can have a feeling of validity denied 
them when their primary relations are to vast social 
aggregations. 
Young people look about them, half-consciously wonder- 
ing what kind of world it is into which they are born. If 
they see favoritism and political manipulation, with the 
best people of the community timidly unwilling to expose 
themselves by vigorous political activity, the young peo- 
ple of the community will have learned their lesson. 
Their school textbooks may discuss civic righteousness, 
but they will know that is only make-believe. The realities 
are before their eyes. They will be convinced that they 
live in a world of arbitrariness, favoritism, and special 
interests, and that they must be like the world they are 
in. On the other hand, whenever young people see 
integrity and a businesslike attitude in business manage- 
ment, they are likely to decide that the world they live in 
is like that, and they will act accordingly. 
The Barter Network Handbook 
Another one of those slightly fusty do-gooder manuals, 
but the subject is one that, like open-air farmers’ markets 
and (sometimes) recycling centers, can do a lot to connect 
a community. Sometimes you barter goods, but mostly 
people barter services; either way, you leave the IRS out 
of it. Village economics in an urban world, self-rewarding. 
—Stewart Brand 
@ 
Tom Glynn, assistant to the commissioner of the IRS, has 
YOUR CUSTOMER 
YNOPE. I'M GET- 
IS PAYING YOU —— TING GUITAR 
NOPE. RAY, FOR. | 
IN GUITAR LESSONS?, LESSONS FROM 
GUITAR LESSONS| 
Wy 
TT 
EN 
Nia 
(" 
Hit en 
WW 
J) 
fo 
i Mi ie | 
Ne 
he 
ARE YOU 
conceded that many of the informal barter arrangements 
that take place between friends and neighbors carry no 
tax liability, since they fall into the category of ‘’favors.’’ 
... The IRS has ruled that members of barter ‘‘clubs,’’ 
who receive credits valued at $1 each for services they 
perform, must report them as income when they are 
received, even though they may not make use of them 
until a later time. Credits possessing no monetary or 
‘‘time-spent’’ income, however, have not been covered 
by any IRS rulings to date. 
NOPE. BY JOINING THE 
BARTERBANK, I CAN FIX 
A PERSON'S CAR FOR CREDITS 
AND THEN TRADE 
EM IN 10 GET 
WHATEVER 
WANT FROM ANY 
f OTHER MEMBER! 
WHAT A 
GREAT IDEA! 
RIGHT ON! 
COMMUNITY 
TOWNS 
The Small 
Community 
Arthur E. Morgan 
1984; 313 pp. 
$10 
($11 postpaid) from: 
Community Service, Inc. 
P. O. Box 243 
Yellow Springs, OH 45387 
or Whole Earth Access 
Small Town 
Kenneth Munsell, Editor 
$30 year 
(6 issues) from: 
Small Towns Institute 
P. O. Box 517 
Ellensburg, WA 98926 
The Barter 
Network 
Handbook 
David Tobin and 
Henry Ware 
1983; 69 pp. 
$5.95 
($9.45 postpaid) from: 
Volunteer Readership 
1111 North 19th Street 
Arlington, VA 22209 
or Whole Earth Access 
