COMMUNICATIONS 
332 INTERACTIVE VIDEO 
NTERACTIVE VIDEO will give you a good reason to turn your TV back on. Rather than watching passively, slumped in an 
by Fabrice Florin 
amass 
armchair, you drive this video software like a computer program. At the touch of buttons you scan through a storehouse of 
images and sounds much as you would flip through the pages of a book. With the help of a microcomputer you can rearrange 
good book, it encourages multiple readings. 
Shuttle Reports (NASA). 
NASA Space Dises: Highlights of the Apollo and Space Shut- 
tle missions, with breathtaking spacewalks, spectacular lunar 
landscapes and some really gorgeous pictures of the Earth 
from outer space. Half a dozen different discs are available. 
$45.50 each postpaid from Optical Data Corporation, 66 
Hanover Rd., Florham Park, NJ 07932. 
the display of sound and images in a new order, or have it branch in alternative paths for a teaching lesson or game. Like a 
The heart of the new machine is a videodisc, the same glimmering plastic 
laser videodiscs that play popular movies and, in compact size, music. Each 
disc becomes an extremely durable visual encyclopedia with up to 54,000 
color pages per disc side. A slide collection that large would cost four or 
five times the price of the disc. It’s also the equivalent of several 16mm films, 
which could justify the purchase of both a player and a disc. Some of the 
better discs have dual sound tracks. The initial one is for beginners; then you 
graduate and go through the same images with the advanced sound track. 
The largest drawback so far is that you cannot record images or sounds — 
you can only play and reorder the prerecorded component images. 
Here’s where to find some of the best: 
< King Kong. 
Criterion Collection: 
Citizen Kane ($91.45 
postpaid), King Kong 
($76.45 postpaid), 
and other cinematic 
milestones, repro- 
duced from the finest 
prints, with produc- 
tion stills, storyboards 
and rare outtakes, as 
well as informative 
text and audio com- 
mentaries. From 
Voyager Company, 
2139 Manning Ave., 
Los Angeles, CA 
90025. 
Discount Videodiscs: A fine laserdisc mail order house, with 
Discount Videodisc Players: Although this dealer specializes 
thousands of movie titles in stock, as well as dozens of inter- 
in industrial videodisc equipment, consumers can find some 
active video programs, many at discount prices. Be sure to 
pretty good deals on reconditioned players or brand new 
ask for their useful quarterly newsletter The Laser Beam. 
models at wholesale prices. Ask for referrals if they don’t 
Catalog free from Starship Industries, 605 Utterback Store 
have what you need. Catalog free from American 
Rd., Great Falls, VA 22066. 
Interactive Video 
Mirror 
Interactive Video 
Signe Hoffos and 
the EPIC team, Editors 
1983; 290 pp. 
$19.95 
($22.95 postpaid) from: 
The Videodisc Monitor 
P.O. Box 26 
Falls Church, VA 22046 
disc track 
coating 
/ 
| 
—____.__.__» 
Technology Resources, 1245 Providence Road, Media, 
PA 19063. 
If you want to learn more about interactive video, this 
plain-vanilla paperback is the best introduction to the 
field | know. It is well organized and offers an intelligent 
hore 
overview of how interactive systems work, from consumer 
to industrial applications. It is marketed in the U.S. by the 
|__] Photocel 
publishers of The Videodise Monitor, the trade rag of 
interactive video, and is an excellent source of serious 
information. 
—Fabrice Florin 
LL 
TT 
PL SES ESAS 
I YP NEC IIT 
© Two of several just-hatched newsletters for laser disc 
(movies, mostly) aficionados. Can’t tell which is the better 
Pits in 
Reflective 
one yet. Try Disc Deals: $20/yr. (12 issues) from P. O. Box 
391, Pine Lake, GA 30072. Or Laser Disc Newsletter: $25/yr. 
(12 issues) from Suite 428, 496 Hudson St., New York, 
NY 10014. 
or Whole Earth Access 
The inner workings of a Philips LaserVision videodisc player. 
