A Pattern Language 
This project is overwhelmingly ambitious — to establish a 
language for talking about what people really need from 
buildings and communities, drawing from many epochs 
and cultures but focusing on our own. The genius of Alex- 
ander et al. is that they simply ignore the stylistic fad- 
mongering that passes for architectural thought, and get 
on with sensible, useful, highly distilled wisdom about 
what works and what doesn’t. They’re not shy about lay- 
ing down rules of thumb (“‘Balconies and porches which 
are less than six feet deep are hardly ever used’’) — 
often with research citations to back them up, and charm- 
ing, pointed illustrations. 
The most important book in architecture and planning for 
many decades, a landmark whose clarity and humanity 
give hope that our private and public spaces can yet be 
made gracefully habitable. 
—Ernest Callenbach 
low sill 
place 
@ 
In principle, any window with a reasonably pleasant 
view can be a window place, provided that it is taken 
seriously as a space, a volume, not merely treated as a 
hole in the wall. Any room that people use often should 
have a window place. And window places should even 
be considered for waiting rooms or as special places 
along the length of hallways. 
e 
Look how beautiful the workspace in our main picture is. 
Nearly the whole counter is lined with windows. The work 
surface is bathed in light, and there is a sense of spa- 
ciousness all around. There is a view out, an air of calm. 
< The Mexicali project. 
The Production of Houses 
This records the successful completion of a housing pro- 
ject done according to architect Christopher Alexander's 
unorthodox theories. The project was set in Mexico, mostly 
to avoid American building codes which conspire to keep 
design and construction in the hands of architects and 
builders. Alexander requires that the end users of a 
building can and must participate in its construction from 
start to finish — not merely in an advisory capacity. If 
necessary, the project is guided by a “’master builder’’ 
(in this case Alexander) who acts as coordinator, inspiration, 
and source of critical information. 
I find this book inspiring, essentially “‘right,’’ and certainly 
one to read before building anything. My only qualm is 
that the ideas are offered as THE way to build — an extreme 
claim. But this may be the only way to effectively emphasize 
a position that is, regrettably, seen by many people as 
radical. Too bad. In this case, “‘radical’’ is just good sense. 
In the Mexicali project, it was, above all, a very human 
thing that happened on the site. For in the end, the reality 
of the process — quite apart from the principles of the 
architect-builder, and the house cluster, and cost account- 
ing, and all that — is what people dealt with day by 
day, and what now remains in everyone’s memory even 
after the construction has stopped. 
The night watchman walking by the window at sunrise 
on his way home, the dusty sun already beginning to 
bake our rooms . 
. 
. The men who deliver the sand and 
gravel coming by every couple of days, the great piles of 
gravel slipping out of the truck; writing a bill; giving 
them a check every week . 
. 
. Driving across town to buy 
electrical supplies; waiting in the supply house with the 
electricians, drinking cool water; loading the tubing and 
fittings into the truck. 
a aS 
The Linz Cafe 
Christopher Alexander’s books, especially A Pattern 
Language, ask for demonstration of the ideas presented. 
The enlightened sponsors of a design exposition offered 
him a chance to show his stuff in the summer of 1980. He 
responded with a deceptively simple and subtle cafe. This 
modest book shares that same spirit with quiet, lucid ex- 
planations of what he was trying to achieve, and photo- 
graphs for those unlucky enough to be unable to stop in 
for a beer. Judging by this book only (I have not seen the 
cafe), I’d say the cafe has that charm one finds now and 
then in a building designed by somebody who has not 
been messed up by an education in architecture. The de- 
signer’s love and regard for the people who will use the 
building shows. It’s appalling that this is considered un- 
usual or difficult to achieve, but we live in strange times. 
6 
In order to get each detail to work just right, within the 
framework of these rough visions, it was of course neces- 
sary to work each detail out, very exactly, by trial and 
error, using full scale mockups to get size and shape and 
proportion just exactly right. For example, in the case of 
the alcoves, | spent several hours in the office, playing 
with chairs, tables, and pieces of plywood, until | had 
the dimensions of the alcove exactly right. | knew | had 
it right when it felt so comfortable that everyone in the 
office clustered round, sat in the simulated alcove drink- 
ing brandy, and refused to leave. 
CHRISTOPHER ALEXANDER 
HOUSEHOLD 
117 
A Pattern 
Language 
(Towns, Buildings, 
Construction) 
Christopher Alexander, 
Sara Ishikawa, 
and Murray Silverstein 
1977; 1,169 pp. 
$47.50 postpaid 
The Production 
of Houses 
Christopher Alexander 
(with Howard Davis, Julio 
Martinez, and Don Corner) 
1985; 383 pp. 
$39.95 postpaid 
The Linz Cafe 
Christopher Alexander 
1982; 94 pp. 
$25 postpaid 
All from: 
Oxford University Press 
16-00 Pollitt Drive 
Fair Lawn, NJ 07410 
or Whole Earth Access 
A The Linz Cafe. 
