192 SMALL BUSINESS 
Honest Business 
Innovative and practical are not contradictory, merely 
seldom met with together. The reason this book is full of 
small business advice which is both innovative and prac- 
tical is that it is primarily reporting — anecdotal material 
from the Briarpatch, an entrepreneurial network in the 
San Francisco Bay area with a wealth of gentle success 
behind it. Michael Phillips has been in the thick of it since 
the beginning in the early 70s. Here is the full body of 
what he has learned and has been teaching. 
—Stewart Brand 
Honest Business 
Honest Business is unique in its combination of simple 
Michael Phillips and 
truths and business moxie. 
Salli Rasberry 
—Bernard Kamoroff 
1981; 209 pp. 
* 
$6 
What are the things we can learn about our businesses 
from studying the books? Two good things are: what 
pe boreal incr: 
days off you can take, and when you can take a 
Random House 
Order Dept. 
vacation. 
400 Hahn Road 
Sherry had bought Skin Zone, a small bath and scents 
Westminster, MD 21157 
business, which she had previously managed for a 
or Whole Earth Access 
period of six months. Now that she was the owner she 
had to work seven days a week to cover the costs of the 
loan she had gotten to buy the business. After a few 
months of working seven days a week she looked pretty 
bad and couldn’t shake off her constant cold. With just 
a tiny amount of surplus cash, how could she afford to 
take even one day off? 
The Partnership Book 
The second most commonly needed book in small business 
(after bookkeeping) is a book to help people understand 
partnerships and set up a partnership agreement. This 
book is perfect, complete, wise, and miraculous. If poten- 
tial partners can write an agreement themselves using this 
book, they have a 70 percent greater chance of succeed- 
The Partnership 
ing than if they use a lawyer, and a 300 percent greater 
Book 
chance than if they have no written agreement. 
Denis Clifford and Ralph 
—Michael Phillips 
Warner 
A 
Pepe) ye 
Partnership agreements are simply contracts that express 
$1 7.95 
your understanding, your decisions, regarding how you 
($19.45 postpaid) from: 
want your business relationship to work. There is a body 
Nolo Press 
of law — primarily the Uniform Partnership Act (the 
950 Parker Street 
U.P.A.) — which establishes most basic legal rules ap- 
Berkeley, CA 94710 
plicable to partnerships, such as the date a partnership 
orWhole arth accece 
commences. However, almost all these rules can be 
varied — if you decide to do so — by an express state- 
ment in the partnership agreement. As we proceed, we 
discuss not only what the standard rules are, but how 
you can alter them if you wish. 
Franchise Investigation and 
Contract Negotiation 
Personally, | would discourage anybody from buying a 
franchise business. You pay someone else money — 
sometimes a large sum of money — fo use their business 
name, to do business according to their rules, and to sell 
Franchise 
Investigation and 
what they tell you to sell. After a while you begin to 
Contract 
wonder whether you are starting a business or paying a 
Negotiation 
whole lot of money to be ordered around. Obviously, 
Harry Gross and 
franchises are profitable; there are more McDonalds than 
Robert S. Levy 
there are slugs after a spring rain. But franchises can be 
1985; 48 pp. 
trouble, too, especially if you hook up with an unsound or 
$3.95 
unstable company. You will need quality professional help. 
($4.95 postpaid) from: 
This is an important little book on the subject. If its 
Pilot Books 
40-some pages don’t scare you away from franchises, 
103 Cooper Street 
probably nothing will. Don’t do anything until you read it. 
Babylon, NY 11702 
—Bernard Kamoroff 
We took a 
look at her 
daily sales 
record and 
found that 
Sunday sales 
were generally 
quite low, with 
most of the 
transactions in 
the mid-after- 
noon. Instead 
of keeping the 
store open 
seven hours on 
The Green Gulch Greengrocer in 
San Francisco was started by the 
Sunday, Sherry 
Zen Center, primarily as a way of 
decided to 
helping the neighborhood, second- 
open it from 
arily as a source of income. 
1:00 to 4:00 
and hire a friend, who agreed to work for $3 an hour 
during those times. We knew from the books that even if 
she lost all of her Sunday business it would not 
significantly affect the net income. 
The result: Sherry regained her health, which helped to 
improve the overall business climate, and the Sunday 
sales remained about the same. 
@ 
The opportunities for fun in business are endless. They are 
the natural consequence of running an honest business. 
Who’ would have thought we'd be 
Naturals in the chicken 
biz? 
Subjects often covered in partnership agreements: 
¢ Name of the partnership (and names of individual 
partners); 
e Term of the partnership (indefinite, or for a set, limited 
time); and date started; 
¢ Purpose of the partnership; the type of business to be 
conducted; 
e Personal business goals of the partners and 
partnership; 
¢ Cash and property contributed to start the business; 
e¢ What happens if more cash is needed; 
¢ Skills to be contributed (hours to be worked, work 
duties of partners, management roles, possible other 
business activities, etc.); 
¢ Distribution of profits; 
© Losses (how divided); 
¢ Salaries, guarantees, or drawing accounts; 
¢ Disputes (rule by majority voting, provision for ar- 
bitration or mediation, etc.); 
¢ Sale, assignment, etc. of a partnership interest; 
e Admission of new partners; 
¢ Expulsion of a partner; 
¢ Continuing business if a partner withdraws, dies, 
becomes disabled, or retires; 
¢ Determining value of a departing partner’s interest, 
provisions for payment of that interest; 
¢ Dissolution, winding up, and termination. 
