NOMADICS 
260 
Vagabonding 
in the USA 
Ed Buryn 
1983; 424 pp. 
$10.95 
($12 postpaid) from: 
Ed Buryn 
P. O. Box 31123 
San Francisco, CA 94131 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Hot Springs 
Gazette 
Suzanne Hackett, Editor 
| 2iyear (issued 
spasmodically) from: 
The Hot Springs Gazette 
P. O. Box 61 
Burbank, CA 91503 
The New Improved 
Good Book 
of Hot Springs 
George W. Berry et al. 
1984; 99 pp. 
$4.95 
($5.70 postpaid) from: 
The Doodly-Squat Press 
P. O. Box 480740 
Los Angeles, CA 90048 
VAGABONDING 
Vagabonding in the USA 
Without hyperbole, there is no country in the world better 
suited to vagabonding than the USA. We are, in a real 
sense, a nation of vagabonds, without roots. This book is 
a nonstop encyclopedia of vagabonding visions, methods 
and tips by a master gypsy. It’s about finding a shower 
along the way, hopping small airplanes, travelling back 
roads, being free, and looking at America like you never 
lived here before (and if you haven't, this book is perfect 
for foreign visitors). It’s about possibilities. 
; 
—Kevin Kelly 
e 
If you don’t know you’re going, you’re there. 
—Anonymous 
® 
The thesis of this book is that traveling on the loose and 
on the cheap is about the least boring way to spend 
your time. Not knowing where you’re going, you pay 
more. attention to where you are, wherever that is. This 
time it’s the U.S.A., a place you’d better pay attention to. 
Time Versus Money: We say that time is money, meaning 
both are valuable. Both are a form of power. Usually 
there is a reciprocal relationship between them; that is, 
abundance of money seems to go along with shortage 
of time, and abundance of time with shortage of money. 
Money is the wealth of the materialist, and works 
miracles in the realm of the physical. Time is the wealth 
of the pilgrim, and works miracles in all realms. 
Stop and ask someone if they know of an inexpensive 
place to stay. The key to doing this successfully is in pick- 
ing the right person to ask. If you’re a student or young 
person, ask someone who looks like you. Frequently, 
another good person to ask is a policeman. Often he'll 
be familiar with the worst places, and can steer you 
away from those, at least. Ask him about bunking in the 
city jail for a night; this often works, especially in small 
towns. Cab drivers are also good sources. 
Credit cards, the sure sign of being middle class, are 
more useful to vagabonds than anyone else. They may 
brand you as being bourgeois, but look at it this way: 
you probably are. Vagabonds sometimes sport an air of 
irresponsibility; they sometimes need to prove their 
respectability, or bail themselves out of a jam. For this, a 
credit card is a sure winner. Moreover, simply owning 
one doesn’t cost you anything. No matter how | travel, | 
always bring at least one of the three major kinds of credit 
cards: oil-company card, bank card, and executive card. 
Hot Springs Gazette 
e New Improved Good Book 
of Hot Springs 
“Stalking the Wild Hot Springs’’ might be an appropriate 
subtitle for these funky periodic booklets. The game is to 
find out and get into one of the thousands of undeveloped 
wild hot springs that hide in yonder hinterlands (look for a 
plume of steam on the horizon). It’s not as easy as it 
sounds and that makes for good adventure. 
These booklets are directories to known hot 
frxcs, 
spots, complete with reports from sundry 
= 
hotspringers who have actually dipped in, on 
where the waters are, how to get there from 
New Mexico: 
Turkey Creek Hot Springs. 4 stars. Near the town of 
Gila. See map. Plan to do no work on the natural soak- 
ing pools; they’re ready and waiting. The drive into the 
area will discourage most sightseers — 12 miles of dirt 
road. Don’t try this trip in the late spring or early sum- 
mer unless you are prepared to drown in the floodwaters 
of the Gila River. At any other time, preferably summer 
to late fall, park at the Gila River crossing and begin 
your 3.5 mile hike. Cross the river and head East to a 
private ranch, then North along Turkey Creek. Enjoy the 
3 or 4 creek crossings, waterfall, and 12-foot deep pool 
in the creek. Rest thy weary bones, hiker! 
—The Hot Springs Gazette 
your car, what the bottom is like, what the temperature is, 
is anybody around? There’s also lots of questing stories 
and poolside yarns about stalking the Ultimate Wild 
Bath. Occasionally there are testimonies of soaks in extra- 
national hot springs, but in the main, access is to North 
American baths. 
For rediscovering the many untamed hot springs not men- 
tioned by other sources, you'll need The Good Book, a 
geological listing of all known hot springs west of Kansas. 
The data was compiled by George Berry et al., and 
printed by the government. Not to be confused with an 
earlier, less comprehensive list by Gerald Ashley Waring, 
also printed by the government and warmly known as the 
Good Book, now out of print. Berry’s list gives the map 
coordinates and topo map name where each spring is 
found (they are still remarkably arduous to locate). Many 
of the entries are merely boiling trickles. The editor of Hot 
Springs Gazette chattily comments on the bathable springs. 
—Kevin Kelly 
© See also Walden (p. 184) for lessons in thriftiness. 
¢ Traveling across America ain’t new. For a natural and 
human history along one popular highway see this book. 
Adventures On ond Off Interstate Eighty: Eleanor Huggins 
and John Olmsted, $12.95 ($14.45 postpaid) from William 
Kaufmann, Inc., 95 First Street, Los Altos, CA 94022. 
