i] 
1} 
HY ONE-PERSON BUSINESSES? 
WORKING AT HOME 
The one-person business is the most rapidly growing form of new business in the U.S. They have 
the potential for great efficiency. We are consultants for hundreds of such clients, and find that 
five well-run one-person businesses can produce more for the same amount of money as one 
business with eight employees — and they can do the same amount of work for two-thirds the cost (as long 
as real overhead costs are calculated for the employees). Every one-person businessperson should have two 
books: How to Get Control of Your Time and Your Life (p. 225) and Small-Time Operator (p. 191). 
—Claude Whitmyer and Michael Phillips 
Working From Home 
Entrepreneurial Mothers 
Best of the books we’ve seen on this subject, but there’s 
not enough detail. For instance, the authors mention 
health insurance, a major knot to untangle, but don’t 
really point you toward sources. But the table of contents 
lists almost everything that you need to think about if you 
are going to work from home. 
—Art Kleiner 
e 
Tips for Keeping Your Home and Work Separate: 
1. Clearly define your workspace. 
2. Set definite work hours. 
3. Have a way to signal that you’re working; for exam- 
ple, keeping the office door closed or putting up a 
Do Not Disturb sign. 
. Learn how to firmly, but nicely, say, ‘No, I’m 
working now.”’ 
. Use a separate business telephone line and an 
answering machine or answering service. 
. Soundproof your office. 
. Dress in a certain way when you’re working. 
. Keep work materials, paper, and equipment in your 
office space. 
. Have a door or other barrier to your office. Close it 
while you’re working and after you’ 
ve finished working. 
b>?) 
CO 
N 
ON 
nn 
> 
Sideline Business 
A newsletter for moonlighters and for people who have 
jobs but are thinking about starting their own businesses. 
It’s a good place to keep up on IRS rulings likely to affect 
you. 
—Claude Whitmyer 
Sideline Business: Jerome Goldstein, Editor. $30/year (12 
issues) from Sideline Business Newsletter, Box 323, Emmaus, 
PA 18049. 
Home Office 
Brought to you by Time, Inc., this magazine is Time 
magazine slick, well researched, and a must for the 
millions of Americans working, or soon to be working, 
in offices in their home 
—Kevin Kelly 
Independent typists often advertise at stationery stores 
or copy centers, leaving loose-leaf notebooks with 
samples of their work and a list of machines they’re 
familiar with. Unlike the big services, they probably 
won't provide pickup and delivery. But independent 
typists, who usually charge by the hour, will be cheaper. 
And by using them you'll be giving a boost to people 
who, like you, are working out of their homes. 
Nutrition: For people who work just around the corner 
from a well-stocked refrigerator, nibbling all day is a 
strong temptation — and an easy way to procrastinate. 
To avoid this double threat, establish regular mealtimes 
and try hard to avoid snacking. Most people find it eas- 
iest to stay trim by eating the three balanced meals a 
day that almost every doctor and mother recommend. 
A rare book in that it skillfully combines “‘you can do it’ 
inspiration with common sense. Mothers looking to start a 
business have more considerations and obstacles to deal 
with (kids, family, lack of encouragement) and these 
issues permeate the text. But anyone starting a home 
business — woman or man — will benefit from the well- 
chosen advice. 
—Bernard Kamoroff 
The book also offers what amounts to a course in bar- 
gaining techniques — some of the best advice I’ve seen. 
—JB 
Creative buying: Get together with other entrepreneurial 
mothers and buy in bulk or make a pitch to a wholesaler 
who normally deals only in large quantities. Place ads in 
your local newspaper if you think area residents might 
have the supplies you need. ‘‘Call me. | want to buy 
your backyard produce,’’ was the ad placed by the 
enterprising owner of a California crepe and salad house. 
There is a vast difference between a mate who is a 
sounding board and one who is actually involved in 
your venture. You may make mistakes, but they will be 
your mistakes, and you will learn from them. Make sure 
he knows that you welcome his support and advice but 
that you make the decisions. Your business is not his suc- 
cess; it is your success. You are his success. 
Sometimes couples do go into business together. When it 
works, it can become the basis of a mutually satisfying 
relationship. 
—Home Office 
LIVELIHOOD 20! 
Working 
From Home 
Paul and Sarah Edwards 
1985; 420 pp. 
($13.20 postpaid) from: 
St. Martin’s Press 
Cash Sales 
175 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10010 
or Whole Earth Access 
Entrepreneurial 
Mothers 
Phyllis Gillis 
1984; 374 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Macmillan Publishing Co. 
Order Dept. 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth Access 
Home Office 
Barbara Thompson 
Howell, Editor 
$3/issue from: 
Time Inc. 
clo Home Office 
Time and Life Building 
Rockefeller Center 
New York, NY 10020 
