Home Is Where You Park It 
e Survival of the Snowbirds 
Me, live in a trailer or RV? As my permanent home? 
Well, yes. Matter of fact, I’ve done just that for about 12 
years now ina small Airstream trailer — the ‘’Silver 
Turd.’’ You can be a “‘boomer,”’ following work as it 
becomes available. (That’s pretty much what I’ve done.) 
Or you can be a “‘snowbird,’’ following the good 
weather. Thousands of people (some say millions) are do- 
ing this right now. But there are problems: how do you 
license your vehicle year after year? What about bank- 
ing, taxes, medical care, postal service, insurance, and 
legal matters? Where do you park? What about electricity, 
sewage, and water? All these things have been well worked 
out, through experience, by the author of these most 
useful books. My experience says they are right on the 
mark. Read both, you’ll be glad you did. 
—JB 
Every motor requires repairs from time to time. Since it 
is the motor that wears out first, the trailerist can trade 
his tow rig for a new one and still keep the same RV. 
The motor-home owner usually ends up buying an entire 
new rig. 
—Home Is Where You Park It 
Nomadic children are exposed to a variety of cultural 
backgrounds. They learn that there are many different 
ways of doing things. As their views widen, they are 
more apt to become complete individuals. | believe that 
what nomadic children lose in social roots, they gain in 
the development of their inner resources. And because 
they are so often among strangers, they also learn to 
be independent. 
—Home Is Where You Park It 
Since it is difficult to get credit cards once you become a 
transient, be sure to apply for the credit you want before 
you give up your permanent residence. Even if you’ve 
always been dead set against using credit, you may 
change your mind after you start full-timing. If you 
don’t, you haven’t lost anything; having credit cards 
does not mean you have to use them! 
—Home Is Where You Park It 
All too often | hear someone complain, ‘I wish | could 
travel the way you do, but . 
. .’” Then there follows a list 
of reasons that boil down to these two things: LACK OF 
COURAGE and LACK OF MONEY. 
| can do nothing to give you courage for that must come 
from within. But | can assure you that ‘‘lack of money”’ 
is not a reason to give up your place at the feeding tray 
of life. Lack of money is an EXCUSE — but never a REA- 
SON for giving up on your travel dreams. 
—Survival of the Snowbirds 
Fredson RV, Van, 
Truck & Boat Supplies 
This fat catalog is full-to-bustin’ with equipment and supplies 
that pertain to living in vehicles, boats, or any other mini- 
mal digs. There’s lots of 12-volt stuff: appliances, lights, 
pumps, fans, and repair parts for them. There are propane 
refrigerators, RV toilets, tanks, vents, water heaters, stoves, 
aerials, awnings, jacks, mirrors, and just about anything 
else you can think of. It’s the biggest assortment I’ve ever 
seen. Prices are good — far better than those of many RV 
stores that offer half the selection. 
—JB 
Rinnai 
instantaneous 
Water Heater 
The Rinnai instantaneous hot water heater is ideal for recrea 
tional vehicles, residential, commercial and industrial applica- 
tions. Easily installed as a central unit as well as at point-of-use 
to provide hot water 
in seconds, for as long as it is needed. 
Heater can 
be completely shut down when hot water 
is not 
needed, and quickly started up again using the fingertip con- 
trolled piezoelectric igniter. Designed for wall mounting to save 
valuable floor space and a variety of installation possibilities. 
ither features include: 
e By-pass mixing system for long life. 
e Stainless 
steel casing. 
@ Pilot jet cleaning device for safe 
ignition every time. e Baffle. 
SPECIFICATIONS: e Water pressure—high, 5.69 psi—low, 4.90 
psi. 
@ Overall dimensions—14” high x 11” wide x 9-1/4" deep. 
@ Inlet connections—LPG, 3/8 flare 45° —NG, NPT 1/2—water 
NPT, 1/2. @ Hot water outlet connection, NPT 1/2. e (GPM) 
capacity 50° 
rise, 1.2. 
e Gas consumption, BTU rating—40,000 
maximum—24,400 minimum. e Net weight 14 pounds. 
REU-502 Instantaneous LPG Hot 
Water Heater 
17-05 19-00 
e “’Escapees”’ is a club serving the needs of those who live 
on the road. Membership includes free parking at a number 
of sites, and a useful newspaper. The club also operates the 
S-K-P Mail & Message Service, which gives you an official 
address and phone — both with forwarding capability — for 
about a dollar a month. 
Escapees: $35/year membership fee. Includes 6 newsletters, 
mail and message service, and other membership services. 
Escapees Club, Route 5, Box 310, Livingston, TX 77351. 
Woodall’s 
Campground Directory 
More than 600 pages of campsites — with maps, descrip- 
tions, and a brief description of what there is to do around 
there. Private campgrounds are rated by Woodall’s staff, 
based on personal visits. Lots of other useful information is 
included, along with advertisements. A classic, as they 
say. I’ve found the information to be reasonably ac- 
curate — it’s updated annually. Mexico and Canada 
are included. 
—JB 
Woodall’s 
Campground Directory 
we 
annual; 1,852 pp. 
$12.95 
($14.30 postpaid) from: 
Woodall Publishing Co. 
11 North Skokie Highway 
Suite 205 
Lake Bluff, IL 60044 
or Whole Earth Access 
Don Wright’s Guide to 
Free Campgrounds USA 
Six thousand of ‘em no less, briefly 
described and located with reference to 
the nearest town. By states. Don’t expect 
deluxe accommodations. Checking my 
own favorite locations, | find this listing 
to be trustable. 
—JB 
Don Wright’s Guide 
to Free Campgrounds 
Don Wright 
1986; 540 pp. 
$12.95 
($14.95 postpaid) from: 
Lifestyle Publications 
24396 Pleasant View Dr. 
Elkhart, IN 46517 
or Whole Earth Access 
ROAD LIFE 
NOMADICS 271 
Home Is Where 
You Park It 
Kay Peterson 
1982; 199 pp. 
$7.95 
($8.95 postpaid) 
Survival of 
the Snowbirds 
Kay Peterson 
1982; 222 pp. 
$7.95 
($8.95 postpaid) 
Both from: 
Roving Press Publications 
Route 5, Box 310 
Livingston, TX 77351 
or Whole Earth Access 
Fredson RV Supply 
Catalog 
$3 (coupon 
enclosed) from: 
Fredson RV Supply 
815 North Harbor Blvd. 
Santa Ana, CA 92703 
