HEALTH 
226 
The Road 
Less Traveled 
M. Scott Peck, M.D. 
1978; 316 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Simon & Schuster 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
or Whole Earth Access 
Women and 
Psychotherapy 
1985; 32 pp. 
$3.75 
($5 postpaid) from: 
Federation of 
Organizations for 
Professional Women 
2437 15th Street NW #309 
Washington, DC 20009 
The Whole Self- 
Help Directory 
Mental Health Association 
of San Francisco 
1985; 186 pp. 
$5 postpaid from: 
Mental Health Association 
of San Francisco 
2398 Pine Street 
San Francisco, CA 94115 
PSYCHOLOGICAL SELF-CARE 
ELF-HELP AND HOW-TO BOOKS all have one thing in common: They all help you achieve 
some kind of result — fixing a car, buying a computer, building a house, or losing weight. 
Psychology, on the other hand, is about process — the process of being human. A psycholog- 
ical perspective can help you achieve just about any other end, but it is not an end in itself. 
—Michael Robertson 
Psychology self-help books have to be read at the right time. The psychological insight one person gains 
from a book leaves other people cold. They’ve already “‘been there” or they’re not “‘ready”’ for it yet. 
—Corinne Hawkins 
Here are some guides that may help you find a good therapist. 
The Road Less Traveled 
A psychological (not pop-psychological) guide to modern 
living. The first 60 pages are practical descriptions of the 
type of discipline that is needed to face the problems of 
life. The remainder of the book deals with love, grace, and 
spiritual growth. It is simple enough to be used immed- 
iately, and also deep enough to work on for a lifetime. 
—David Hawkins [Suggested by everyone] 
@ 
Whenever a patient says, “‘It’s ridiculous, but this silly 
thought keeps coming to my mind — it doesn’t make any 
sense, but you've told me | have to say these things,’’ | 
know that we have hit pay dirt, that the patient has just 
received an extremely valuable message from the un- 
conscious, a message that will significantly illuminate 
his or her situation. 
@ 
Falling in love is not an extension of one’s limits or bound- 
aries; it is a partial and temporary collapse of them. The 
extension of one’s limits requires effort; falling in love is 
effortless. Lazy and undisciplined individuals are as likely 
to fall in love as energetic and dedicated ones. Once the 
precious moment of falling in love has passed and the 
boundaries have snapped back into place, the individual 
may be disillusioned, but is usually none the larger for 
the experience. When limits are extended or stretched, 
however, they tend to stay stretched. Real love is a per- 
manently self-enlarging experience. Falling in love is not. 
e 
Ultimately, if they stay in therapy, all couples learn that a 
true acceptance of their own and each other’s individ- 
uality and separateness is the only foundation upon 
which a mature marriage can be based and real love 
can grow. 
Some even suggest that the path toward enlightenment 
or knowledge of the oneness of reality requires that we 
regress or make ourselves like infants. This can be a 
dangerously tempting doctrine for certain adolescents 
and young adults who are not prepared to assume adult 
responsibilities, which seem frightening and overwhelm- 
ing and demanding beyond their capacities. ‘’| do not 
have to go through all this,’’ such a person may think. 
“| can give up trying to be an adult and retreat from 
adult demands into sainthood.’’ Schizophrenia, how- 
ever, rather than sainthood, is achieved by acting 
on this supposition. 
How was it possible to play chess without wanting to 
win? | had never been comfortable doing things unen- 
thusiastically. How could | conceivably play chess en- 
thusiastically but not seriously? Yet somehow | had to 
change, for | knew that my enthusiasm, my competitive- 
ness and my seriousness were part of a behavior pattern 
that was working and would continue to work toward 
alienating my children from me, and that if | were not 
able to modify this pattern, there would be other times 
of unnecessary tears and bitterness. 
My depression is over now. | have given up part of my 
desire to win at games. That part of me is gone now. It 
died. It had to die. | killed it. | killed it with my desire to 
win at parenting. When | was a child my desire to win at 
games served me well. As a parent, | recognized that it 
got in my way. So it had to go. The times have changed. 
To move with them | had to give it up. | do not miss it. 
| thought | would, but | don’t. 
Women and Psychotherapy 
This is the best consumer handbook for thinking about 
psychotherapy I’ve'seen. There are chapters on sexism 
and feminist therapy that are specifically aimed at 
women, but the rest of it will be as useful to men. It 
answers the basic questions on deciding if you need 
therapy, the therapeutic “‘contract,’’ guidelines for 
psychoactive drug use, and grievances. 
—Corinne Hawkins 
Sexism in therapist behavior falls into four general 
categories: 
* promoting traditional sex roles; 
e stereotyped expectations, such as believing that 
women possess certain ‘‘feminine’’ personality 
characteristics; 
° sexist use of theoretical concepts, such as the view 
that it is in ‘“women’s nature’ to want to be dominated 
by men; 
® responding to women as sex objects, including seduc- 
tion of female clients. 
Whole Self-Help Directory 
This fine local San Francisco Bay Area directory lists self- 
help groups — a low-cost, effective way of getting sup- 
port and understanding about specific problems. Besides 
women’s and men’s support groups, it lists groups on 
Alzheimer’s disease, Neurological Impairments, etc. It 
also has a section on starting your own group. Check 
your local Mental Health Association for their version. 
They’re in the telephone book (white pages). 
—Corinne Hawkins 
e Eighty percent of the population feels shy in one situation 
or another. For some it’s a minor nuisance, for others it’s 
debilitating. This is the first and only self-help book to 
thoroughly cover the subject. 
Shyness: Philip G. Zimbardo, 1984. $3.95 ($4.70 postpaid) 
from Berkley Publishing Group, 390 Murray Hill Parkway, 
East Rutherford, NJ 07073 (or Whole Earth Access). 
