i 
The Owner Builder Center 
Some of the best news in years is the success of the Owner 
Builder Center in Berkeley, California. It’s one of the first, 
and certainly the biggest of such enterprises — they’ve 
taught more than 10,000 people how to build or remodel 
their own place while saving up to 40 percent. The ‘““OBC’’ 
has also spawned about 20 other centers and doubtless 
inspired many more. They are strongly nonsexist. 
What the OBC staff has learned from all that teaching 
has been gathered into a series of books. Begin your 
homework with Before You Build. Everything you need to 
know is explained in chronological order. Equally impor- 
tant, the author wisely insists you be realistic about your 
desires, needs, competence, attitude, time and finances. 
The psychological effects of the project — often ignored 
until too late — are discussed in experienced detail. This 
book is by far the best of its kind. 
Next step is Building Your Own House. Watching many 
students make the same mistakes over and over has led 
the author to accent the tricky parts. In addition to the ex- 
pected instruction, he answers the questions he knows you 
will ask: ‘‘How accurate do | have to be here?’’ ‘’What 
will the inspector want to see, and when?” “What if a 
board has a curve in it?’’ The book gets the foundation in 
and frame up. Later books will guide you to move-in day. 
The information is complete, jargon-free, well illustrated, 
and liberally festooned with sample worksheets, schedules 
and checklists. Really good. 
OBC also puts out a newsletter, The Owner Builder. 
You'll find schedules of classes, descriptions of new projects 
(such as an owner builder condo), friendly consulting 
services and suppliers, and articles on a variety of 
suitable subjects. 
Owner-building is certainly going to grow as families get 
priced out of the market. I’m glad that OBC has given 
the movement such a great start. 
—JB 
OWNER-BUILT 
<4 
Nail on the Cap Plates 
Margin of Error: Exactly flush with top plate. 
Most Common Mistakes: Bowed stock; nails not over 
studs; falling off the wall; splinters in your rear end. 
Use good, straight stock for these plates. Secure the 2 
plates together with two 16d CC sinkers over each stud. 
By placing the nails over the studs, they will never be 
in the way of drill bits when you have to drill holes for 
plumbing and electricity later. Be sure that the edges are 
flush with the edges of the top plate, and that the cap 
plates fit tightly to make a strong interlocking joint. 
—Building Your Own House 
Trees are a wonderful asset to a site both for beauty 
and shade, but they are alive and therefore, like all of 
us, vulnerable to change. 
The distance materials have to be carried may seem 
like a small matter, but it can tremendously influence the 
building process. If supply trucks cannot get close to the 
site, all of the materials will have to be carried in, which 
adds hours to each work week. Few people really un- 
derstand the amount of time, energy, and persistence it 
takes to build a house unless they have already built one. 
If materials have to be carried in to the building site, it 
does not mean that the project is not feasible, only be 
sure that you understand that you are adding another 
element of time and labor to an already immense task. 
Even though knowing the depths of the neighbors’ wells 
is of value, do not place too much weight on this infor- 
mation. A friend dug a well in North Carolina 130 feet 
deep and the church across the road had to go down 
450 feet. Information about others’ wells is most valuable 
in ascertaining if your area has problems with locating 
water at reasonable depths. 
—Before You Build 
ri 
rinnnnn 
Using a 
come-a-long 
Neal 
| 
to plumb 
; 
- 
s 
a wall. 
as 
oe 
a 
EE 
AS SES 
SE 
SEE 
SS 
ED 
The Complete Guide to 
Factory-Made Houses 
If you buy a factory-made house, you won't be doing 
anything unusual; about 50 percent of new housing is now 
made somewhere other than where it ends up. We're 
talking kits — panelized, precut and modular: log houses, 
domes, mobile homes (that hardly ever hit the road again 
once they’re delivered), and factory-made rooms such as 
kitchens and bathrooms. We are no longer talking cheap 
junk — factory-made homes are often better made than 
on-site building because quality control is easier. Statistics 
show that many, if not most, owner-built homes are kits. 
RES 
a 
A 
TT PAS 
¢ Before you get too far with your house design, better 
check Reducing Home Building Costs with OVE, [Optimum 
Value Engineered] Design and Construction. For manual, 
send $7 to NAHB Research Foundation, 627 Southlawn 
Lane, Rockville, MD 20850. 
This book gives you the advantages and disadvantages of 
the various options, buying tips, and a list of manufac- 
turers. Worth a look. 
—JB 
Here are a few tips when you inspect a used mobile 
home for sale. Take along a rubber ball and place it in 
the center of the kitchen and bathroom floors. If it rolls 
to a corner, the mobile may need leveling, or the chassis 
may be sagging which could lead to painful plumbing 
problems. Also take a small light lamp to check all wall 
sockets. Test all appliances, including the smoke detectors. 
Don’t worry that the dealer may think you’re too cautious. 
Look at it this way: he'll know that he’s not dealing 
with an amateur! 
Recent factory-made 
homes are a far cry 
from “‘prefabs”’ of 
ill repute. Acorn 
Structures Inc. 
of Massachusetts 
makes this one. 
HOUSEHOLD 21 
Before You Build 
(A Preconstruction Guide) 
Robert Roskind 
1983; 197 pp. 
$8.95 
($9.95 postpaid) 
Building Your 
Own House 
Robert Roskind 
1984; 435 pp. 
$17.95 
($18.95 postpaid) 
both from: 
Ten Speed Press 
P. O. Box 7123 
Berkeley, CA 94707 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Owner Builder 
Pat Bradley, Editor 
$4lyear 
(4 issues) from: 
Owner Builder Center 
1516 5th Street 
Berkeley, CA 94710 
The Complete 
Guide to Factory- 
Made Houses 
A. M. Watkins 
1984; 184 pp. 
$8.95 
($10.95 postpaid) from: 
Caroline House, Inc. 
5S 250 Frontenac Road 
Naperville, IL 60540 
or Whole Earth Access 
