LAND USE 
BEES 
82 
The Beekeeper’s 
Handbook 
Diana Sammataro 
and Alphonse Avitabile 
1986; 150 pp. 
$14.95 
postpaid from: 
Macmillan 
Order Dept. 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Hive and 
the Honey Bee 
Dadant and Sons, Editors 
Ath edition 1975; 740 pp. 
$14.80 
($17.30 postpaid) from: 
Dadant & Sons, Inc. 
51 South 2nd Street 
Hamilton, IL 62341 
or Whole Earth Access 
Gleanings in 
Bee Culture 
John Root, Editor 
$1 1.20 /year 
(12 issues) from: 
A. |. Root Company 
P. O. Box 706 
Medina, OH 44256 
The Beekeeper’s Handbook 
Here’s a book | wish had been around when | started 
working bees. The Beekeeper’s Handbook is a well-illus- 
trated introduction covering most of the basics, from site 
location and equipment to the installation of package bees 
to basic management techniques. It’s the best beginner’s 
book I’ve seen, and most readable, so | won’t quibble 
about small stuff like the authors’ hang-up on mandatory 
chemotherapy. 
With this book and some equipment you'll be on your 
way. If you’re beginning, you‘d do well to find a local bee- 
keeper and thus benefit from someone else’s experience. 
More fun is to make contact with two local beekeepers. 
You'll soon discover that they disagree with each other 
half the time — that beekeeping is an art, not a science. 
With this understanding, youll move forward with a more 
flexible mind. 
—Dick Fugett 
—The Hive and 
The Honey Bee 
EES DON’T NEED MUCH ROOM. You can keep them in a back yard, on a city rooftop, 
HE ‘ or in your neighbor’s empty lot. I’ve put mine in all three places over the years. I offer 
3: 
! bees my clean and sturdy shelters more for the joy of having their fascination nearby 
than for the several gallons of honey a year they pay me as rent. They don’t bark, or 
need milking twice a day, either. 
Capturing a swarm of bees can bring genuine adventure into your life, making it 
unnecessary to watch TV that day. 
—Kevin Kelly 
—Dick Fugett 
Poor Site 
LOW 
: 
ee: 
natural 
water 
y 
= 
=e 
windbreak 
drainage 
=o 
running 
access road 
water 
Ideal Site 
The Hive and the Honey Bee 
Since the major technical breakthroughs in beekeeping — 
movable frames, wax foundations, and the honey extractor 
— were all made over 100 years ago, beekeepers today 
can devote their efforts to improving technique rather than 
trying to keep up with state-of-the-art equipment advances. 
So when it comes to bee books, it follows that the old can 
be as useful as the new, and sometimes more so. 
Hive is still going strong after 40 years, now in a 7th print- 
ing of a 4th edition which was in fact inspired by a book 
published in 1853. It’s passed the test of time — if any 
single volume could be said to present the topic, this 
would be it. 
—Dick Fugett 
The first consideration in choosing the location of an 
apiary is whether or not there are sufficient sources of 
nectar and pollen near. Bear in mind that honey bees 
obtain most of their nectar and pollen within a half-mile 
radius, but can gather at distances of 1 to 2 miles, 
depending on the ruggedness of the country and to 
some extent on the prevailing winds. Even in the heart of 
large cities, there are often sufficient sources of nectar 
and pollen to provide for a limited number of colonies, 
and even to produce surplus honey. A city lawn, a back 
yard, a flat roof, a pasture on a farm, a grove of trees 
— all will be satisfactory locations as the occasion 
demands. 
Mail Order Bees 
Since bee supply stores are few and far between, mail 
order becomes a necessity. Each of the following dealers 
will send a free catalog on request. —Dick Fugett 
Walter T. Kelley Company, Clarkson, KY 42726. 
Dadant Bee Supplies, Dadant & Sons, Inc., Hamilton, 
IL 62341. 
Root Bee Supplies. A. |. Root Co., P. O. Box 706, Medina, 
OH 44256. 
Unit #1, the ’‘Honey-of-a-Hobby” kit, contains everything 
necessary for the beginner to start that first colony of bees 
except the bees themselves. This complete beekeeping kit 
contains: one standard beehive with a unique reversible 
entrance reducer, 10 frames, 10 sheets of Dadant’s Duragilt 
Gleanings in Bee Culture 
GiBC has been published monthly for 113 years and ap- 
pears to be permanent. It has current info on everything 
of interest to the hobbyist — from techniques, research 
and disease to books and equipment. | —Dick Fugett 
Can you describe the taste and aroma of your honey 
or honey from your state or region? Our language lacks 
unique words to convey an accurate sensation of taste. 
A few years ago Arthur Strang and | attempted to begin 
a description of some of the mid-Atlantic region honey 
sources. Here are some honey sources for you to ponder 
and perhaps confirm for yourself: 
Water White Alfalfa Blossom Honey: Very sweet, smooth, 
faintly fruity flavor with a pleasing sugary bouquet. 
Basswood Honey: Sweet, slightly astringent flavor with 
a pleasing blossomy flavor. 
Amber Blackberry Blossom Honey: Sweet, smooth, rich, 
roasted nut-like flavor with pleasing fruity bouquet. 
Dark Buckwheat Honey: Sweet, smooth, nut-like flavor 
with a satisfactory fruity, nutty bouquet. 
Extra Light Amber Sweet Clover: Very sweet, smooth, taint 
of cinnamon-like flavor with a pleasing sugary bouquet. 
Extra Light Amber Lima Bean Honey: Moderately sweet, 
slightly tart flavor with satisfactory weak blossom bouquet. 
—Dadant’s 
Foundation, protective bee veil, all-purpose hive tool, bee 
smoker to calm the bees, sting-resistant gloves, entrance 
feeder, ‘First Lessons in Beekeeping’ book and assembly 
instructions. Additional equipment, necessary as the colony 
grows, is available in Units #2 and #3. Unassembled. $89.90 
