Who Dies? 
No Grim Reaper and no sappy platitudes lurk in these 
pages. The gentle, powerful philosophy is based on love 
and awareness in the best Buddhist sense. It’s about being. 
There are few books in this catalog that have been 
recommended by so many of our readers. Perhaps that’s 
because Who Dies? is such a good recipe for living. 
—JB [Suggested and tested by Peter Rabbit] 
° 
The old who live in their body are bent under the strain. 
The old who live in their hearts are aglow. 
e 
Many we have worked with who were not in pain had 
less of a tendency to investigate, had less motivation to 
examine and begin to let go of their suffering. Because 
things weren't ‘’so bad after all,’’ they imagined they 
DYING AND DEATH 
could somehow hide from death in the same way they 
had hidden from life. 
When you let go of control of the universe, when you let 
go of everything, only the truth remains. And like a roshi 
you start responding from the moment. Your actions 
come out of the present. There is no force. Your boat is 
empty. The currents move you to the left, ““Ahhh, the 
left.” They move you to the right, ‘‘Ahh, the right.’’ But 
you never feel as though you are to the left or to the 
right, you only feel that you are here now, in the pres- 
ent. Open to all the possibilities and opportunities of 
the moment. Fully present. Able to respond, not out of 
personal desire, but out of a sense of the appropriateness 
of things. You respond from the flow itself, or perhaps 
better stated, the flow responds to itself. No separation 
anywhere. Nowhere to go. Nothing to do. No one to be. 
Recovering From the Loss 
of a Child 
Who would argue that there is a worse experience than 
the sudden loss of a child? It would be a moot argument; 
for those who have been through it, nothing can com- 
pare. Katherine Donnelly begins with the premise that, 
contrary to our social myths, bereaved parents desper- 
ately want to talk about their pain. Silence is their worst 
enemy. Here she tells, beginning with the death, the 
stories of many families who have lived this nightmare. 
She follows them, with sensitive descriptions, to that 
far-off land of recovery. 
—Sallie Tisdale 
e 
What you are saying in prolonged grief is: ‘My world 
has ended.’ That is the message parents are sending if 
they go on and on with their grief. The surviving child 
wonders, ‘Don’t | mean anything to you?’ Many times 
parents tend to idealize the dead child, and for that 
reason siblings often feel the child who died was 
the favorite. 
Judith says that in surviving, you can’t do everything as 
you once did. ‘’Everyone has a thing they can’t do — 
like going to the cemetery, or back to a favorite spot of 
your child’s, or to a supermarket where your child may 
have shopped with you, or to any place that stirs pain- 
ful memories. Although you will go forward in many 
areas, there are also many areas in which you cannot 
go back.” 
A Manual of Death Education 
and Simple Burial 
All the details you need to know about simple funeral 
arrangements and other practical aspects of dealing with 
death are in this famous book. 
—Sallie Tisdale 
Dealing Creatively with Death (A Manual of Death Education 
and Simple Burial): Ernest Morgan, 1984; 156 pp. $6.50 
postpaid from The Celo Press, 1901 Hannah Branch Road, 
Burnsville, NC 28714. 
EE 
ET STINE 
I 
SE LE 
LILES 
e Make your own coffin with these plans. 
St. Francis Center: information free; plans $3.25 postpaid 
from 2201 P Street NW, Washington, DC 20037. 
On Death and Dying 
On Death and Dying establishes a psychological fact that 
most people close to a dying person already know, even 
if they can’t admit it: one tends to turn away. Even from 
husbands, even from wives, even from one’s own children. 
Dying people are casualties of life. Their dying, especial- 
ly if it is a long, drawn-out affair, is a reminder of how 
vulnerable we all are, and that’s something most people 
want to forget. 
This is a powerful book, because it forces the reader into 
the point of view of someone dying. Suddenly you’re on 
the other side of that glass between the living and the 
dying, and it’s not comfortable. But, as Elisabeth Kubler- 
Ross points out, the point is not always to “‘comfort’’ the 
healthy. That tendency is a major cause of the intense 
psychic suffering dying people must endure, in addition 
to the physical failures that are killing them. This book 
speaks for the dying in a way they are unable to speak 
for themselves. It’s disturbing; but then so is all education. 
I‘d say this book is indispensable for all people who are 
living in the presence of someone else’s gradual death. 
—Gurney Norman 
What Rachel Carson’s Silent Spring did for pesticides, this 
book did for the subject of death. Unlike Carson's book, it 
hasn‘t dated a line, although the author maybe has. 
—Stewart Brand 
While the surgeons believed that another surgical 
procedure could possibly prolong her life, the husband 
pleaded with them to do everything in their power to 
“turn the clock back.’’ It was unacceptable to him to 
lose his wife. He could not comprehend that she did not 
have the need to be with him any longer. Her need to 
detach herself, to make dying easier, was interpreted by 
him as a rejection which was beyond his comprehension. 
There was no one there to explain to him that this was a 
natural process, a progress indeed, a sign perhaps that 
a dying person has found his peace and is preparing 
himself to face it alone. 
First Stage: Denial and Isolation 
Second Stage: Anger 
Third Stage: Bargaining 
Fourth Stage: Depression 
Fifth Stage: Acceptance 
e 
When we asked our patients how they had been told, 
we learned that all the patients knew about their terminal 
illness anyway, whether they were explicitly told or not, 
but depended greatly on the physician to present the 
news in an acceptable manner. 
HEALTH 219 
Who Dies? 
Stephen Levine 
1982; 317 pp. 
$9.95 
postpaid from: 
Doubleday and Company 
Direct Mail Order 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth Access 
Recovering 
from 
the Loss of a Child 
Katherine F. Donnelly 
1982; 226 pp. 
$13.94 
postpaid from: 
Macmillan Publishing Co. 
Order Dept. 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth Access 
On Death 
and Dying 
Elisabeth Kubler-Ross, M.D. 
1969; 289 pp. 
$4.95 
postpaid from: 
Macmillan Publishing Co. 
Order Dept. 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth Access 
