ADVENTURE 
LEARNING 375 
International Youth Exchange 
You go there and stay with a family, or they come here 
and stay with a host family. Our government is encour- 
aging (with grants) the many private organizations that 
carry out such programs. This booklet tells you how to be 
student or host, and provides a list of the organizations 
involved — plus a bit of chat that will enable you to make 
a good choice. Looks like the bureaucrats have done it 
right this time. 
: 
—JB 
e 
Should | become an exchange student? 
To help you decide whether or not you want to become 
an exchange student, ask yourself questions such 
as these: 
Do | want to learn to speak another language? Can | 
keep up in a school that may make unfamiliar academic 
demands on me? 
Can | handle day-to-day challenges and frustrations? 
Cope with occasional loneliness? Tolerate attitudes, ideas 
and values that are different from my own? 
Am | willing to compromise? Make more decisions on my 
own? Laugh at myself when | do or say something others 
may think is silly or inapproriate? 
Can | be a friend and a part of a host family without ac- 
ting like a ‘“guest’’ in a foreign country? 
@ 
To help you decide if hosting is right for your family, an 
experienced exchange organization may ask you the 
following questions: 
© Do you enjoy having people in your home? 
@ Do you like the intensity, spontaneity and unpredic- 
tability of teenagers? 
e Are you prepared for the expenses related to hosting? 
¢ Can your family’s values, attitudes and behavior stand 
up to questioning by a student eager to learn more 
about American culture? 
© Would you have the time and patience to talk to 
someone learning your language? 
Experiment in 
International Living 
Over 100,000 young people have participated in the 
programs of the Experiment in International Living since 
the action commenced in 1932. ‘Homestay’ — living 
with a family and engaging in whatever it is that they do 
in normal life — is the backbone of this enterprise. It’s 
probably the best way to learn about folks different than 
yourself. There are adult programs, too. 
School For International Training is their academic division, 
offering coursework in subjects chosen to enhance inter- 
cultural relationships. Credit can usually be arranged at 
your base college or university. When you hear people 
say “my semester abroad,”’ it’s often this program. 
The word experiment is well retained in the organization 
name; new things are being tried all the time (one reason 
for the Experiment’s long life). There is a growing program 
involving Elderhostel (p. 216), and a lively one, Interna- 
tional Students of English, intended to bring foreigners’ 
English to a level sufficient to permit enrollment at an 
American university. The Experiment also has taught 
English to thousands of refugees. Yes, the Experiment 
is included in the International Youth Exchange noted 
elsewhere on this page. 
—JB 
e 
Can | go with a friend? 
This often-asked question gets a positive ‘’no.’’ The 
reason? It is a drawback to making new friends and 
etting to know your host country. By the end of the 
irst day you will have made many new friends. 
How can my parents and friends contact me while I’m 
abroad? 
Your family and friends may write to you in care of the 
local Experiment representative who knows your where- 
abouts at all times. To insure your total immersion in the 
culture, we strongly discourage visits and phone calls 
from family and friends. 
SP 
EO Ee BET OA Ee SS 
LE 
Es OE TE WS DED CEN ee 
e Also see Peace Corps (p. 90) and Globe (p. 254). 
e Outward Bound graduates tell it like they did it. 
Outward Bound U.S.A.: Joshua L. Miner and Joe Boldt, 
1981; 374 pp. $8.95 ($10.45 postpaid) from William Morrow 
Publishing Co., Wilmor Warehouse, 6 Henderson Drive, 
West Caldwell, NJ 07006 (or Whole Earth Access). 
¢ See Earthwatch, (p. 258). 
Audubon Expedition School 
One of the more tempting education 
opportunities around is this school- 
bus load of students that travels 
all around the country each year 
from September through May. 
The bus stops at such diverse 
locations as wilderness areas, 
Native American communities, 
and my own turf until recently, 
The New Alchemy Institute. Stu- 
dents don’t stay in the bus, either. 
They hike, ski, bike, boat, and 
participate in the action of the 
areas they study, for graduate, 
undergraduate or even high school 
credit. Praise for this school is 
high and | can see why: There’s 
that indefinable feeling of reality 
that is missing from so much 
classroom instruction. They have 
scholarships, summer expeditions, 
and a degree program through 
Lesley College. 
—JB 
[Suggested by Jim Swan] 
Helping Out in the Outdoors 
When people volunteer everybody is winning. Needed 
jobs get done (cheerfully!), and the volunteers go home 
with more than they gave. Like to partake? Our parks 
could use your help. Wanted are fire lookouts, craft in- 
structors, trail crews, campground hosts, surveyors, and 
tree planters. Experience accepted, willingness preferred. 
Some jobs pay no money, others furnish groceries or 
lodging or gas money, or work clothes, and some even 
pay meagerly. Look over this quarterly directory, decide 
who to give your love to, and write to them early. 
—Kevin Kelly 
@ 
Timber technician: Do you want to get into the tall 
timber? If you like the odor of pine, you will like this 
position. Three hardy men or women are needed to use 
forestry tools to fell trees, buck logs, and spread seed- 
bearing 
branches so that a new forest can be created. 
Your sfoie will be seen for 150 years. We will give you 
the know-how. Dates: June through October. Benefits: 
Work days and hours are negotiable, housing, transpor- 
tation to the work site. Requirements, 18 or older. 
International 
Youth Exchange 
Catalog free from: 
Youth Exchange 
Pueblo, CO 81009 
Experiment in 
International 
Living 
Information free from: 
Experiment in 
International Living 
Kipling Road 
Brattleboro, VT 05301 
Audubon 
Expedition School 
$6800] year (Sept.-May) 
Information free from: 
National Audubon Society 
Expedition Institute 
Northeast Audubon 
Center, Route 4 
Sharon, CT 06069 
Lesley College 
National Audubon 
Society 
Catalog free from: 
Lesley College National 
Audubon Society 
Attn.: Outreach 
29 Everett Street 
Cambridge, MA 02238 
Helping Out 
in the Outdoors 
Published in February 
and August 
$3/issue or 
$1 2/2 years 
(4 issues) from: 
Washington Trails 
Association 
16812 36th Avenue West 
Lynnwood, WA 98037 
