LEARNING 
360 
Parents Without 
Partners 
Sourcebook 
Stephen L. Atlas 
1984; 192 pp. 
$8.95 
($9.95 postpaid) from: 
Running Press 
Book Publishers 
125 South 22nd Street 
Philadelphia, PA 19103 
or Whole. Earth Access 
The Difficult Child 
Stanley Turecki, M.D. 
and Leslie Tonner 
1985; 224 pp. 
$15.95 
($17.45 postpaid) from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, IL 60016 
or Whole Earth Access 
On Being Father 
Frank Ferrara 
1985; 175 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
Doubleday and Company 
Direct Mail Order 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth Access 
SINGLE PARENTING 
Parents Without 
Partners Sourcebook 
A good place to begin when you are still picking up the 
pieces. Covers everything from holidays and school con- 
ferences to gay parents, starting to date, and recovering 
as a widow or widower. The book offers an appendix of 
referral sources for specific needs, and bibliographies 
under several subjects. 
—Sallie Tisdale 
It’s easy for a single parent to become defensive and 
anticipate rejection by a minister or by church members. 
‘| often wonder,’’ Dr. Manning muses, “‘if we singles let 
ourselves feel too alienated — almost paranoid — 
if we’re not welcomed specifically as singles. We will 
probably be welcomed if we put ourselves forward as in- 
dividuals who can help in real ways — participate on 
committees, for instance — and thus gain credibility 
when we propose programs for single people and 
their children. 
For children from divorced homes, the public schools of 
Andover, Massachusetts, have developed a peer support 
program that has the cooperation and endorsement of 
the superintendent and assistant superintendent of 
schools. The heart of the Andover program consists of 
support groups, run by mental health personnel and 
trained Peer Counselors, motivated and caring teen- 
agers who devote time and energy to helping others. 
Groups are limited to youngsters from stepfamilies or 
single-parent homes. Thus, children hear about the pro- 
gram through announcements in the school newspaper, 
newsletters, and sometimes letters to parents. Children 
sometimes recruit their friends, though parental 
permission is always required for a child to participate. 
e 
Child Abuse 
Parents Anonymous, National Office, 2230 Hawthorne 
Boulevard, Suite 208, Torrance, CA 90505. Toll-free: 
(800) 421-0353, (in California:) (800) 352-0386. 
Parents Anonymous helps parents deal constructively 
with anger, frustration, and other negative feelings 
toward their children. The group is supportive, charges 
no dues, and has chapters in each state. Each state has 
a 24-hour hotline, and each chapter has weekly meetings, 
where baby-sitting is usually provided free. 
@ 
Fathers 
Coalition of Free Men, P. O. Box 129, Manhasset, NY 
11030. (516) 482-6378. 
This nonprofit clearinghouse for men’s rights and fathers’ 
rights organizations can recommend groups and other re- 
sources for single fathers in all areas of the United States. 
A national clearinghouse for resources and organizations 
for unmarried fathers is being coordinated by: 
Fathering Support Services, 3248 N. Racine, Chicago, IL 
60657. (312) 327-3752. 
The Difficult Child 
| wish I’d had this book five years ago; | might have been 
able to spare both my son and me many painful argu- 
ments. Turecki, a child psychiatrist, asserts that more than 
10 percent of children are born “‘difficult’’ by tempera- 
ment: highly sensitive, poorly adaptable, negative in 
mood, or disorganized. Such children can be extremely 
frustrating to rear. Turecki speaks from experience; he 
began the research that led to this book after years of 
trouble with one of his own children. This is a straight-- 
forward, practical approach to understanding your child 
and regaining your authority as a parent, free of guilt. 
—Sallie Tisdale 
The problem is that difficult children provoke ineffective 
discipline. Their behavior is often bewildering to the 
parents, who then become more and more tentative in 
their response. What should the parent do? The mes- 
sages the child is giving out are ambiguous; there seems 
to be no reason for the child’s behavior. The parent then 
looks for motives in an effort to understand what is go- 
ing on. Often this leads to a descent to the child’s level, 
to a power struggle that no one wins. The parent ends 
up feeling victimized, exhausted, and incapable of cop- 
ing. On to the next round. 
® 
You are trying here to interfere with your customary gut 
responses to your child. Therefore, stop to think, and 
hold back from your previous automatic responses to his 
behavior: the immediate ‘‘no,’’ the threats, the scream- 
ing. Try to disengage your feelings from this process and 
replace them with the attitude of a professor studying his 
subject. Aim for as cool an attitude of detachment as 
you can manage. 
On Being Father 
At last, an unapologetic, middle-of-the-road male 
perspective on divorce and giving up custody of the 
children. Ferrara freely shares not only his own exper- 
iences, mistakes, and solutions, but the residual anger he 
still struggles to control. He makes no attempt to be a 
‘new age’ man or father — Ferrara settles for being a 
good man and father. The book covers living arrange- 
ments, visits, changes in parent-child relationships as the 
child grows, and issues of sex and remarriage. 
—Sallie Tisdale 
@ 
Competitiveness arises when you have a need to ‘prove’ 
that the divorce wasn’t your fault, that she was the one 
really to blame for the failure of the marriage. So you 
try to show — to her, to the children, to your friends, 
and most of all to yourself — that you’re a better person 
and a better parent than she is. You try to be both a bet- 
ter father and a better mother than your ex-wife. You’re 
always comparing yourself to her, using her as a sort 
of measuring rod for yourself as you play your game 
of one-upmanship. 
To put it bluntly, being a parent showed me my failings. 
Or rather, being a single parent showed me. | never 
would have learned this lesson if my wife and | had 
stayed together and gone on as we were. It was only in 
becoming a single parent that | saw how much | had to 
learn and was kicked into trying to improve myself. It 
was painful. And frightening. 
* Don't Shoot the Dog (p. 225) has some good strategies for 
reducing family squabbling. 
¢ The insight in this classic parenting book is still helpful. 
Liberated Parents, Liberated Children: Adele Faber and 
Elaine Mazlish, 1974; 237 pp. $3.95 ($4.95 postpaid) from 
Avon Books, P. O. Box 767, Dresden, TN 38225. 
