NOMADICS 
CAMPING GEAR 
2714 
OW CAN YOU CHOOSE a parka, for instance, from an entirely ex- 
cessive number of available models? You can’t just ask, ““What’s the 
best parka?” You have to ask “best for my use” and be honest or you 
might end up with an expedition model suitable for your dream trip 
to Nepal instead of your shopping trip in Des Moines. The adage “you get what 
you pay for” doesn’t apply unless you include stylishness — an increasingly 
important aspect of outdoor-wear marketing. 
As usual, your best bet is to buy from a reputable dealer. We present a few of 
them here, but just a few — there are many more good ones. The ones on these 
pages are folks we’ve learned to trust through good personal experience with 
their wares and service. 
—J. Baldwin 
The North Face 
: Use a Vapor Barrier Liner 
(VBL) and the Waterproof 
Bivouac Cover in conjunc- 
tion with polypropylene 
underwear, a sleeping bag 
and an insulated pad and 
you've got a flexible, 
layered sleeping system 
designed to handle every- 
thing from extremely cold- 
weather camping to light- 
Gore-Tex fabric 
bivouac sack. 
The North Face is one of the biggest outfitters now, and 
still one of the best. Their dramatic catalog goes beyond 
New! The 1”-long Accessory 
Screwdriver for Swiss Army Knives 
fits inside the corkscrew of your knife. Perfect 
for tiny screws in sunglasses, etc. 
Item #G403-031—Wt.: 0.25 oz. 
REI is the supermarket — their catalog is huge and 
mere description by offering a short course in how to 
choose and care for equipment (not necessarily theirs). 
Catalog free from The North Face, 999 Harrison Street, 
Berkeley, CA 94710. 
weight summit assaults. 
Field and lab tests show 
that this layered sleeping 
system boosts the thermal 
efficiency of the sleeping 
bag by 15 to 30 percent. 
Stephenson’s Warmlite 
Engineer Jack Stephenson's Warmlite designs are 
includes many brands besides their own. There is little ex- 
planation; you have to know what you need. REI is a co-op 
offering members a dividend each December. 
—JB 
REI: catalog free from Recreational Equipment, Inc., P. O. 
Box C-88126, Seattle, WA 98188. 
Catalog $3 from Stephenson’s 
Warmlite Equipment, R.F.D. 
4 #145, Hook Road, Gilford, 
NH 03246. 
radical, controversial, and widely copied (without credit). 
His catalog is a design treatise as radical as the equip- 
ment it shows. My Warmlite sleeping bag and tent have 
served me well for 16 years. 
Stephenson model 5 sleeps 6 
adults, weighs less than 5 Ibs., 
= rolls up to 15” x 8”. 
L.L. Bean 
L. L. Bean continues as a bastion of traditional New 
England trail equipage, mixed now with more modern 
stuff as they cater a bit to current tastes. Their reputation 
is deservedly impeccable; their store (open 24 hours) is 
a sight to behold if you can jam your way in. 
—JB 
Catalog free from L. L. Bean, Inc., Freeport, 
ME 04033. 
Bean’s Maine Hunting Shoe 
Uppers are of supple, long-wearing full-grain cowhide, organically treated in the tan- 
ning process to resist water. Will not stiffen with wetting and drying. Tan or Brown finish. 
Bottoms are made on a swing last of tough, ozone-resistant rubber compounded espe- 
cially for us to provide longer wear. Cushioned innersole. Outersole of durable crepe 
is permanently vulcanized to the vamp and features Bean’s famous Chain Tread. 
Made by us in Freeport, Maine. 
—JB 
Moss Tents 
Moss Solet is just the 
thing for solo hiking 
and biking. 3 ib, 2 oz. 
Bill Moss's tents have “‘inspired’’ nearly every other sup- 
plier of modern tents, but Bill’s are still the best in every 
way. They feature subtle shapes and colors that seem as 
natural as the landscape around them. | regularly use 
two Moss models — both superb. 
|
—JB 
Catalog free from Moss Tents, P. O. Box 309, Camden, 
:
ME 04843. 
¢ Lowe packs aren’t the only good ones around, but their 
unique suspension, Torso Trac, makes the usually maddening 
strap adjustments easy — by eliminating them; Lowe’s traveler 
packs retract their harness to become chic luggage. Nice. 
Information free from Lowe Alpine Systems, P. O. Box 189, 
Lafayette, CO 80026. 
