COMMUNITY 
LEFT 
100 
of the fence or the other. 
IVIDING THE POLITICAL REALM up into Left and Right is a legacy of the French 
Revolution and, like the guillotine, not always applicable to the modern world. Nevertheless, 
until someone comes up with a better set of pigeonholes, we are stuck with the Left/Right 
metaphor, and most activities and actors in the political realm end up falling on one side 
The conceit of this two-page spread is that the following selection of magazines serves as a rough introduction 
to the spectrum of the Left and Right. This is similar to trying to boil the world’s cuisines down into a half- 
dozen fast food restaurants. It’s both an interesting exercise and an impossible task, and should be read 
with no illusions about its completeness. 
—Jay Kinney 
—The Progressive 
Liberal/Progressive 
The Nation and The Progressive are the two best 
general magazines on the American Left. They are 
also two of the oldest national magazines — of any 
political stance — still being published. (The Nation 
was founded in 1865 and The Progressive in 1909.) 
Long considered “liberal,” both magazines have 
responded to the languishing disintegration of liber- 
alism by broadening their purview to include demo- 
cratic socialism as a serious option. 
As a weekly, The Nation provides timely commentary 
on late-breaking news. Alexander Cockburn’s slash- 
and-burn Press criticism column is particularly pro- 
vocative. The Progressive’s forte on the other hand 
is longer analytical articles presented with striking 
black-and-white graphics. 
Socialist/Communist 
One notch to the left is In These Times, the “‘inde- 
pendent socialist newspaper” published weekly in 
Chicago. [TT distinguishes itself from the preceding 
publications through its emphasis on hard news and 
ge 
fe pe 
sx be 
cal 
Sais Bee 
—Guardian 
its overt stumping for socialism. The writing in /7T 
is intelligent, nonsectarian and nonrhetorical, and 
includes good coverage of popular culture. If a good 
case for socialism can be made in the late ’80s, it'll 
likely be in In These Times. 
Though the Guardian’s subtitle, “the independent 
radical newsweekly,”’ sounds similar to 
[TT’s, the 
Guardian is a distinctly different entity. Progressive 
in the ’50s, New Left in the 60s, Marxist-Leninist 
in the ’70s, the Guardian has tended to reflect the 
changing tilt of left activists from era to era. These 
days, the Guardian has cut back on the rhetoric, 
undergone a much-needed graphic redesign, and 
tempered its penchant for revolutionary dogmatism. 
If pinned down under duress, the Guardian would 
probably still call itself communist, though the word 
doesn’t surface often in its pages. 
Anarchist/Anti-Civilization 
Even farther to the left we run into the anarchists 
who may not like Capitalism but hate governments 
even more. Open Road is the most accessible, regular- 
ly published anarchist paper in North America. Since 
its inception several years ago, Open 
Road has reported on a variety of 
anti-authoritarian activities ranging 
from anti-nuke demos to Native 
American struggles to bombings by 
alleged revolutionaries. 
With “terrorism” so much in the 
news, OR is one of the few publica- 
tions that prints communiques from 
leftists undertaking armed actions. 
Movie 
Theaters 
Fountains 
On the far-left fringes of the far left 
is the Fifth Estate. Starting out in 
Detroit as one of the seminal under- 
ground papers of the ’60s, FE evolved 
into a unique radical publication de- 
fying any easy label. Suspicious of 
any ‘ism’, despairing of the bitter 
fruits of industrial civil- 
ization, and with grave 
11 
Parachute 
Stores 
THE MALL. 
OF MALLS 
IT’S LIKE FOUR MALLS IN ONE! 
Only a three hour drive from Bucyrus! 
lee 
> 
ay 
9 
DEPARTMENT STORES 
Fully equipped Sear's six bed hos- 
Free round-trip transportation from 
pital with full-tima surgeon on staff. 
your car to the Mall. 
2 Hr. Free Parking Graduation Present from Mall of Malls to all Sheliville gracs! 
Bring 
The Nation 
Richard Lingeman, Editor 
$45 year 
(47 issues) from: 
The Nation 
P.O. Box 1953 
Marion, OH 43305 
The Progressive 
Erwin Knoll, Editor 
$1 6.97 /year 
(12 issues) from: 
The Progressive 
409 East Main Street 
Madison, WI 53703 
oot 
aes, 
a 
Pet Shops 
diploma for proot for validation 
—The Fifth Estate 
misgivings about the role 
of words and numbers 
themselves in warping 
human consciousness, 
FE publishes brilliant, 
if wordy(!), critiques of 
nearly everything. 
Action’’(p. 91). 
catalog (p. 143). 
¢ For another look at political extremes, check ‘“Covert 
¢ Supplies for anarchists may be found in the Loompanics 
