I52. ONE HIGHLY EVOLVED TOOLBOX 
by J. Baldwin 
It took about 35 years for our 
toolbox to evolve into this portable 
shop. An hour of diddling opens 
the truck into an efficient 200- 
square-foot workspace containing 
(in addition to about a ton of 
hand tools) a drill press, band 
saw, table saw, radial-arm saw, 
air compressor, grinder, generator, 
and another ton of supplies. 
Note: suppliers mentioned in text 
and captions are described on 
following pages. 
A SLOTTED ANGLE is a good building material where strength and compact size requirements make 
wood inappropriate, as in these workbenches. It comes in several sizes and weights, bolts together 
easily, and can be reused. Three good brands are DEXION, AIM, and BAY. (Look in the Yellow Pages 
of a largish city under ‘’Rack’’ or ‘’Slotted Angle.’’) 
<4 STEEL CABINETS make a good home for tools and also 
work well for art supplies, sewing accessories, and medical 
equipment — anything that'll benefit from orderly, lockable 
storage. We upholster the drawer bottoms with carpet. 
A This is our abrader department. Old chair springs keep 
the files from filing each other. Sears makes exceptionally 
nice cabinets which often go on sale. We got ours freight 
damaged (ask!) for half price, then fixed them with a bit 
of sheet metal-fu. 
HIS TOOLBOX WAS BORN 
inauspiciously in 1949 as a few 
rusty screwdrivers and a battered 
adjustable wrench living in a de- 
moted Buster Brown lunch bucket. These 
days it takes form as a two-and-a-half-ton 
walk-in van that unfolds into a neighbor- 
hood workshop wherever it parks. It’s set 
up so anyone can use it with minimal in- 
struction; no point letting a ton of tools 
sleep most of the time. The tools are a 
diverse lot chosen for versatility, quality, 
and the ability to work well together. They 
enable you, literally, to do just about any- 
thing short of precision machining. 
Folks have used this tool set to build 
hardwood furniture, boats, bicycles, solar 
collectors, and even whole houses. We’ve 
mass-produced 300 looms and thousands 
of parts for geodesic domes. Innumerable 
repairs have been made to plumbing, ap- 
pliances, and vehicles. Best of all, the shop 
encourages invention. It was intentionally 
designed to be a three-dimensional sketch- 
pad — a place to make the first physical 
manifestation of an idea. (That’s something 
inventors should do themselves in order to 
maintain control as their ideas develop, 
just as artists do their own painting.) It’s a 
teaching shop too. Hundreds of people 
have learned to extend their bare-hands 
abilities by means of these tools and a bit 
of friendly advice. Women have been es- 
pecially welcomed, both as instructors 
and students. 
Having lots of shop users has turned out 
to be the best defense against vandalism 
and theft. In 20 years we’ve lost less than 
$200 in tools and damage despite living 
in vulnerable locations. Tool loss is also 
controlled by marking everything with an 
obvious blue stripe and an antitheft ID 
number, and by having a specific home for 
each tool just like libraries do for books. 
We've found that tool drawers work better 
