if The Reader’s 
304 
How to 
Read a Book 
Mortimer J. Adler and 
Charles Van Doren 
1972; 426 pp. 
$9.95 
($10.95 postpaid) from: 
Simon and Schuster 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
or Whole Earth Access 
Adviser 
Sarah L. Prakken, Editor 
$75 each* 
($78.75 postpaid); 
$1 94 3-volume set 
($204.75 postpaid) 
All from: 
R.R. Bowker Company 
205 East 42nd Street 
New York, NY 10017 
The Pushcart 
Prize IX 
Bill Henderson 
1984; 588 pp. 
$9.95 
($10.95 postpaid) from: 
Avon Books 
P. O. Box 767 
Dresden, TN 38225 
or Whole Earth Access 
COMMUNICATIONS 
GOOD READING 
How to Read a Book 
Authors Adler and Van Doren propose a reexamination of 
the much-overlooked idea that there are techniques for 
reading books, just as there are techniques for driving in 
the rain and playing soccer. They’ve resurrected and pre- 
sent here a collection of rules and instructions of the sort 
used in the Middle Ages as part of the trivium of logic, 
grammar, and rhetoric. Few people could read then, but 
the ones who could usually read very well. The authors 
believe that with this rhetorical tool kit and a lot of hard 
work, most people can do the same. 
| spent 62 years in college. My best intellectual happen- 
ing there was coming across this book. | —T. Durso 
Analytical reading is thorough reading, complete reading, 
or good reading — the best reading you can do. If inspec- 
tional reading is the best and most complete reading 
that is possible given a limited time, then analytical 
reading is the best and most complete reading that is 
possible given unlimited time. 
The analytical reader must ask many, and organized, 
questions of what he is reading. We do not want to state 
these questions here, since this book is mainly about 
reading at this level: Part Two gives its rules and tells you 
how to do it. We do want to emphasize here that analyt- 
ical reading is always intensely active. On this level of 
reading, the reader grasps a book — the metaphor is 
apt — and works at it until the book becomes his own. 
Francis Bacon once remarked that ’’some books are to 
be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be 
chewed and digested.’’ Reading a book analytically is 
chewing and digesting it. 
@ 
What you can learn from the title of a book 
In 1859, Darwin published a very famous book. A cen- 
tury later the entire English-speaking world celebrated 
the publication of the book. It was discussed endlessly, 
and its influence was assessed by learned and not-so- 
learned commentators. The book was about the theory 
of evolution, and the word ‘‘species’’ was in the title. 
What was the title? 
Probably you said The Origin of Species, in which case 
you were correct. But you might not have said that. You 
might have said that the title was The Origin of the 
Species. Recently, we asked some twenty-five reasonably 
well-read persons what the title of Darwin’s book was 
and more than half said The Origin of the Species. The 
reason for the mistake is obvious; they supposed, never 
having read the book, that it had something to do with 
the development of the human species. In fact, it has 
little or nothing to do with that subject, which Darwin 
| 
covered in a later book, The Descent of Man. The Origin 
of Species is about what its title says it is about. 
The Reader’s Adviser 
If you throw darts at a world map and go where they 
point, you'll have a much more interesting vacation than 
anything the travel bureau can offer. Likewise if you throw 
one of these hefty volumes at a bed, examine the open 
pages and read in the direction indicated, your mind will 
meet minds a bookstore dare not carry. Every goddamn 
page (2616 all told) has fascinating people and works 
that I’ve never heard of in my high rent liberal education, 
warmly and searchingly remarked upon, with all the ac- 
cess information you need to waltz cheertully through 
library procedures to the goods. 
—Stewart Brand 
*Volume |: The Best in 
American and British 
American and British 
Drama and World 
Fiction, Poetry, Essays, 
Literature in 
Literary Biography, 
English Translation 
pice and 
Volume III: The Best in the 
eference 
Reference Literature 
Volume II: The Best in 
of the World 
Walton, Izaak. 1593-1683. The Compleat Angler, one of 
the most famous books in English, was written by a self- 
educated ironmonger. Walton wrote it for his own pleas- 
The Pushcart Prize 
Printing good (and bad) writing is easy and cheap these 
days, but getting it to where people can buy it is still com- 
plicated and expensive. That hurts small, worthy presses, 
and it also hurts you since you’re missing a lot, no matter 
how many bookstores you go to. 
Here is a way to miss less of what’s being published by 
groups smaller than Time, Inc. and Mother Jones. The 
Pushcart Prize is a collection of good writing nominated 
annually from hundreds of small press publications. 
Strange good things by people you wouldn’t otherwise 
see. And it lists where the pieces were originally pub- 
lished so you can use it as a guide to small magazines 
you might be interested in. 
—Anne Herbert 
ure as well as that of others; it not only describes the 
technique of angling, but is a contemplative essay on the 
peace and quietude attained by the fisherman. After its 
first appearance in 1653 there were frequent revisions 
adding new material during the author’s lifetime. George 
Saintsbury called Walton’s style one of a “’singular and 
golden simplicity.’’ In spite of Walton’s background he 
became recognized as a “‘gentleman”’ of cultured tastes 
and learning. An Anglican and Royalist, he was over- 
joyed with the Restoration. In his own time, Walton was 
known as a biographer, author of the Lives of John 
Donne, Sir Henry Wotton, Richard Hooker, George Her- 
bert and Robert Sanderson. Kenneth Rexroth wrote a 
charming essay on The Compleat Angler in the Saturday 
Review of Sept. 16, 1967, which catches the secret of its 
enduring appeal and that of its author shining through 
it: ‘‘Izaak Walton, above all other writers in English, 
owes his enormous popularity to his virtues as a man, 
and these virtues are what condition his style and give 
his work its fundamental meaning. Millions have read 
him with joy who have never caught a fish since child- 
hood, if at all. Indeed, . 
. 
. in America at least, most of 
the kinds of fish he talks about are left to small boys. The 
second half of The Compleat Angler was added in the 
late editions and written by Charles Cotton as a guide to 
trout fishing in rough water. Those who want to know 
how to catch fish can learn most from Cotton’s additions. 
We read Izaak Walton for a special quality of soul. . . 
for his tone, for his perfect attunement to the quiet streams 
and flowered meadows and bosky hills of the Thames 
valley long ago. . 
. 
. It may sound outrageous to say 
that Izaak Walton wrote one of the Great Books — and 
that about catching fish — because he was a saint, but 
so it is. 
—Volume III 
¢ A catalog of the best remaindered books at discount prices. 
Daedalus Books: Catalog free from 2260 25th Place NE, 
Washington, DC 20018. 
