Drafting 
When | first got this book, | kept mumbling “‘Arrgh . 
. 
. 
| wish I’d had this book last year,’” or some such remark 
born of unhappy memories of a past disaster. Mr. Syvanen 
has a good knack for explaining things you don’t see ex- 
plained elsewhere. Your beginnership is assumed. —JB 
WHEN IN A 200M THAT EELS GOOD AND COMPOLT- 
ABE, TRY tO FIGUE WHY. [5 It THE CEIL- 
iSu Ingou Axz6S AND SPACE? MEASURE 
| 
[24 
A THE CONTEIBUTING FACTORS. HOW FAR IS 
YOUR HAND FROM THe CEILING WHEN ZAISED? 
+ ALL TLES AND HERE IS A Goop TIME 
G" of 12" tAKE NOtBS ABou 
pete LEME You +00, WE 
be sel 
AND Bhp. 
Structures 
Guess who stayed up all night reading a structure book? 
That’s extreme behavior even for a technotwit! What 
fascinates me about this book is the way it illuminates a 
traditionally difficult subject. Most other books challenge 
the reader not so much with the task of understanding the 
subject matter, as with comprehending the writing. No prob- 
lem here; this must be one of the all-time great examples 
of clear presentation combined with an interest-holding 
writing style. (What good are clear explanations if you 
fall out of your chair with boredom?) Such matters as 
stress, strain, Young’s Modulus, cantilevers, shear, and 
torsion are discussed as theory nicely tied to real-life ex- 
amples. Simple illustrations and competent photographs 
reinforce the often witty text. The Secrets Are Revealed. 
Now if Mr. Gordon would only write on elementary physics 
and chemistry. In these days when an exclusive knowledge 
of technology can be used to exploit a populace, such 
books as this one have a particular importance. | recom- 
mend it highly both as a means of understanding the 
structures around you and as an example of how good 
a technical book can be. 
—JB 
WHAt 4 NICE 
FEEL 
FIGURE 5. 
| HAVE DONE A LOT 
OF 
FEEHAMD TEACING ON 
A WINDOW. 
Ses 
ALWAYS Twit THE PENCIL li thE agi ee 
WING HORIZONTA- 
ANP VERTICAL 
LINES. 
ILL 
Peer me WEAR EVEN ON THE POT AND THE LINE 
Wile BE A CONSISTENT THICKNESS. It TBS A 
LIMLE GETTING USED to, BUT Id A MUST. 
“ 
What makes the arch dramatically different from a mere 
plebeian wall is that, whereas the wall falls down, the 
arch does not. From Figure 15 it can be seen that no 
fewer than three hinge-points can develop in an arch 
without anything very dramatic happening. In fact a good 
many modern arch bridges are deliberately built with 
three hinged joints so as to allow for thermal expansion. 
If we really want the bridge to fall down then we shall 
need four hinge-points so that the arch can become in 
effect a three-linked chain or ‘mechanism’ which is now 
at liberty to fold itself up and collapse. 
All this means that arches are extraordinarily stable and 
are not unduly sensitive to the movements of their foun- 
dations. If there is any appreciable movement in the 
foundation a wall will probably collapse; arches do not 
much mind, and some sort of distortion is quite common. 
Deen 
The Owner-Builder and the Code 
Whether you’re a complier or defier, you’re going to 
have to deal with the building code sooner or later. Well, 
the code isn’t correct . 
. 
. there are hundreds. Worse, the 
interpretation of whatever codes apply to you is up to 
your inspector, who may not be friendly for a variety of 
reasons, including political. With the exception of obvious 
safety regulations, inspectors and codes generally work 
against innovation, art, good sense, and the democratic 
process. This book presents some horror stories and some 
field-proven tactics for getting the inspector to see things 
your way. The examples are from a largely bygone era of 
California “‘funkadelic’’ building, but the principles cer- 
tainly apply to the present. Did you know that the sheriff 
can force you to leave your new home if the bedroom 
isn’t the right size? 
—JB 
® 
O. C. Helton, a third-generation log cabin builder, 
attempted to get a permit to build a log house for himself, 
his wife, and five children. When he realized that the re- 
quired architect’s drawings and engineer's stamp would 
cost him more than $1,000, he decided to go ahead 
SE 
© If you want a look at the enormous variety of hardware 
available to a builder, look at a Sweet's File at your library 
or an architectural firm. Sweet's doesn’t show everything, 
but it’s close. But bear in mind that Sweet's shows the lowest 
acceptable quality stuff, too — the goods that facilitate a 
low bid. This leads to the uncomplimentary phrase ‘Sweet's 
File Architecture. ’’ Watch it. 
without the permit. The county issued a stop-work-order 
and charged Helton with building without a permit. O. C. 
fought the charge claiming that the requirements fora 
building permit were, in his case, unreasonable. A jury of 
five men and a woman eventually found him innocent. 
“If you don’t get this government slowed down and back 
to the people,” he later said, ‘by the time my children 
want to build their home, they’ll be surrounded by rules.’ 
, 
@ 
Building departments must consider the expense of bring- 
ing offenders to court and the effect that confrontation 
will have on its bureaucratic routine. In cases where the 
proposed construction will not comply with the codes, it 
is generally advisable for the home builder to take the 
initiative to build first and face possible legal repercus- 
sions later. 
HOUSEHOLD 
HOUSE DESIGN Hg 
Drafting 
Bob Syvanen 
1982; 111 pp. 
$7.95 
($9.45 postpaid) from: 
East Woods Press 
429 East Blvd. 
Charlotte, NC 28203 
or Whole Earth Access 
Structures 
J. E. Gordon 
1978; 395 pp. 
$10.95 
postpaid from: 
Da Capo Press, Inc. 
233 Spring Street 
New York, NY 10013 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Owner-Builder 
and the Code 
Ken Kern, Ted Kogan, 
and Rob Thallon 
1976; 173 pp. 
$5 
($6.50 postpaid) from: 
Owner-Builder 
Publications 
Box 817 
North Fork, CA 93643 
or Whole Earth Access 
