54 
Drainage areas. 
Painted turtle (Chrysemys 
picta), length 4” - 9-7/8’. 
—Wetlands 
He who hears the rippling 
of rivers in these degen- 
erate days will not utterly 
despair. 
—Thoreau 
Marsh with common tule, 
Gray Lodge Refuge, Butte 
County, California. 
—Wetlands 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
INLAND W. 
Shay 
i 
ACH BIOREGION has its own: cienaga, tanque, branch, creek, swamp, marsh, bog, glade, 
slough, swale, wallow, bottoms, bayou, oxbow, pool, pond, brook, run, kill. Wetlands define 
bioregion personality, create the intimacy with the local lore and the local pacing of nature. 
0 
Sources and springs used to be held in the highest regard . 
. 
. a few hot springs still remain 
associated with healing and a few springs have been given a second lease on life by the bottled water business. 
But water is so precious to commodity production (irrigated crops, cattle forage, land-filling and channeli- 
zation for real estate, cooling power plants, etc.) that wetlands are our number one endangered ecological 
and cultural region. In the United States, there are fewer free-flowing rivers of any length than living con- 
dors. Riverlife, duck hunting, trout fishing, swimming, boating . 
. 
. many of the areas Americans use for 
escape are disappearing, just as the desire for open water floods our hearts. 
A Fluent Celebration 
Audubon’s Wetlands is the best of Audubon survey guides 
written by one of the finest ecologists to immerse himself 
in the subject. Appropriately, there is no one fluvial bard, 
but many . 
. 
. each pouring forth the mysterious solution 
of water and words. Here are words from some of my 
favorites. 
—Peter Warshall 
Round River: Luna B. Leopold, 1953; 173 pp. $3.95 postpaid 
from Oxford University Press, 16-00 Pollitt Drive, Fair Lawn, 
NJ 07410 (or Whole Earth Access). 
Life on the Mississippi: Mark Twain, 1961; 384 pp. $1.95 
($2.95 postpaid) from New American Library, 120 Wood- 
bine Street, Bergenfield, NJ 07621 (or Whole Earth Access). 
A River Runs Through It: Norman McLean, 1976; 217 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid from University of Chicago, 11030 South 
Langley, Chicago, IL 60628 (or Whole Earth Access). 
Wetlands: William A. Niering, 1985; 638 pp. $14.95 ($15.95 
postpaid) from Random House/Order Dept., 400 Hahn 
Road, Westminster, MD 21157 (or Whole Earth Access). 
Carl also caught two huge pike, one on a barbless spoon 
and the other on a pork rind. Each took forty minutes to 
land — they were so heavy that the light rod acted 
exactly as if it were trying to lift a railroad tie. 
Both pike had scars, and the smaller one a healed nick 
in his back. Both were the same length but the first one 
was deeper and heavier. It is impossible to squeeze in 
the gill covers on these huge fish — they can be lifted 
only by getting the fingers behind the gills. Even then 
one’s hand would not reach around a much bigger one. 
Weighed them by using Starker’s bow on a paddle, giv- 
ing the scales three times the leverage of the fish, and 
multiplying the scale reading by three. Thus we stayed 
within the capacity of the scales. 
—Round River 
Wetlands evoke powerful emotions. To some they are 
dark, mysterious, forbidding places, to be avoided at all 
costs. 
. 
. 
. Perhaps one of the most memorable descrip- 
tions of a wetland occurs in Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s 
“The Hound of the Baskervilles,’’ in which he describes 
the Great Grimpen Mire, where the villain meets his 
horrible fate: 
Rank weeds and lush, slimy water plants send an odour 
of decay and a heavy miasmatic vapor into our faces, 
while a false step plunged us more than once thigh-deep 
into the dark, quivering mire, which shook for yards in 
soft undulations around our feet. 
This is surely a masterful description of a bog, one of 
North America’s most fascinating wetlands. 
—Wetlands 
When | returned to the pilothouse St. Louis was gone 
and | was lost. Here was a piece of river which was all 
down in my book, but | could make neither head nor tail 
of it; you understand, it was turned around. | had seen it 
when coming upstream, but | had never faced about to 
see how it looked when it was behind me. My heart 
—Peter Warshall 
—Wetlands. 
Beaverhead River near Dillon, Montana. 
broke again, for it was plain that | had got to learn this 
troublesome river both ways. 
—Life on the Mississippi 
“In the part | was reading it says the Word was in the 
beginning and that’s right. | used to think that water was 
first, but if you listen carefully you will hear that the 
words are underneath the water.’’ 
‘“‘That’s because you are a preacher first and then a 
fisherman,” | told him. 
“No,”” my father said, ‘you are not listening carefully. 
The water runs over the words... .”’ 
A river, though, has so many things to say that it is hard 
to know what it says to each of us . 
. 
. 
. Eventually, all 
things merge into one, and a river runs through it. The 
river was cut by the world’s great flood and runs over 
rocks from the basement of time. On some of the rocks 
are timeless raindrops. Under the rocks are the words, 
and some of the words are theirs. 
| am haunted by waters. 
—A River Runs Through It 
— 
a). 
oF 
° To help save rivers contact these two groups. 
American Rivers Conservation Council: information free 
from 322 4th Street NE, Washington, DC 20002. 
Friends of the River: information free from Building C., Ft. 
Mason Center, San Francisco, CA 94123. 
¢ A pro-development but excellent basic river reference with 
river by river bibliography. 
Rolling Rivers: Richard Bartlet, 1984; 298 pp. $29.95 
postpaid from McGraw-Hill, Order Dept., Princeton Road, 
Hightstown, NJ 08520. 
