202 
The Seven 
Laws of Money 
Michael Phillips 
1974; 194 pp. 
$5 
($6 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
Order Dept. 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
Sylvia Porter’s 
New Money Book 
for the 80s 
1979; 1305 pp. 
$10.95 
($11.95 postpaid) from: 
Avon Books 
P. O. Box 767 
Dresden, TN 38225 
or Whole Earth Access 
Managing 
Your Money 
Version 2.0. Copy- 
protected. For IBM PC 
Family (128K)/PC jr (256K) 
and compatibles. 
Street price 
120; List 
200 from: 
MECA 
285 Riverside Avenue 
Westport, CT 06880. 
ae - Budget 
WW = 
LIVELIHOOD 
PERSONAL FINANCE 
Actual 
The Seven Laws of Money 
The great hippie money book. Written in 1973 (and full 
of Whole Earth lore from that time), it taught a lot of peo- 
ple about how to live with money without letting it take 
over their lives. The advice still resonates. 
—Art Kleiner 
This wise and original book has made a lot of people 
cheeky enough to try stuff, and it’s helped them get away 
with it. 
—Stewart Brand 
Not too long ago a group came to me and wanted to 
buy a 
gigantic piece of land. It was a group oriented 
BRASS: Eastern religion and they naturally wanted to 
raise money for the gigantic piece of land. | said ‘’You 
don’t want money, you want supporters. You can go out 
and look for supporters and in the process ask for 
money, but don’t forget what you’re really after. Sup- 
porters.’’ They did this. They contacted countless people, 
always asking for a small amount of money but in the 
process realizing that the commitment of a small 
amount of money was a commitment of support. And, of 
course, it was the support that built the institution and 
helped it grow. The institution is still growing. If this 
religious group had gotten a grant in the beginning it 
probably would have blown their whole future. Where 
would their supporters and friends and energy have 
come from, especially when the grants and funds began 
to run out in two or three years? 
e@ 
The First Law: Do it! Money Will Come When You Are 
Doing the Right Thing. 
The Second Law: Money Has its Own Rules: Records, 
Budgets, Saving, Borrowing. 
The Third Law: Money is a Dream: A Fantasy As Alluring 
As the Pied Piper. 
The Fourth Law: Money is a Nightmare: In Jail, Robbery, 
Fears of Poverty. 
The Fifth Law: You Can Never Really Give Money Away. 
The Sixth Law: You Can Never Really Receive Money As 
A Gift. 
The Seventh Law: There Are Worlds Without Money. 
When you’re asleep and dreaming, that’s a world 
without money. 
Sylvia Porter’s New Money Book 
for the 80s 
Sylvia Porter is not kidding. This is about money, not so 
much how to make it, but how to keep, save, and judiciously 
spend it. There is advice and information on every 
purchasing decision, and it is usually good advice. 
—Paul Hawken 
The key to a good system of money management lies in 
spreading your big expenses and your savings so that 
each month bears a share of them. When you put aside 
$20 every month to meet a $240 yearly insurance pre- 
mium, for instance, you will not risk spending that insurance 
money on an unnecessary luxury. . 
. 
. Include in your 
savings total an emergency fund equal to at least two 
months’ income, to cover you should you be hit by big 
unforeseen expenses such as illness, unexpected home 
repairs, moving expenses. Note: the emergency part of 
Ge savings fund should be kept in a ie 
accessible 
(“‘liquid’’ ees — for instance, a savings account. 
As a starter, earmark 5 per cent of your total monthly 
income for savings, and boost the percentage from there 
if you can swing it. 
| do not find the modern attitudes toward debt any 
cause for alarm. | see nothing wrong with paying money 
to use ‘someone else’s money.” | approve of ‘planned 
debt,’’ which really is a kind of thrift. And, to an impor- 
tant degree, payments on an installment loan are merely 
replacing many old-time cash payments — like the money 
Americans used to dole out to the iceman or the cash 
we paid to the corner laundry. 
If you are paying higher than standard rates for your life 
insurance because of medical considerations, and if your 
health has improved since your policy was issued, call 
your insurance agent, tell him you want your policies 
reviewed, and then apply to your insurance company for 
a reduction or elimination of the extra-risk premiums. 
Even if your health hasn’t improved, you might be able 
to get a lower risk rating. 
Managing Your Money 
No other computer program is so utterly useful, so well- 
designed, so well written (not the code, but the words on 
the screen), so humorous, so easy, so exploitative of what 
a computer does best. 
It’s a life-brightener, a marriage-saver. Money, as they 
say, matters. Most of us can keep up with the checkbook, 
but investments, tax stuff, loans, and insurance seem to 
inhabit worlds of their own, from which come a steady 
supply of bad surprises. 
$15,980 
$14,310 noon gnooLi 
‘EZ eGnemPeaeot 
$12,728 [I \ 
WiRAaSR Rane 
$11,138 [ARR 
BOER OE) 
ifBC Bases 
$9,540 
$7,958 
- $6,368 
Jan Feb Mar Aer May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 
Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep 
This program eliminates all that. All those ““chapters’’ in 
the program, in your life, keep track of each other and 
keep a steady summary of their overall effect on your 
financial health. 
For the first time | not only know what's going on, I relish 
my monthly session with the program, when the actuals 
take on the imagineds (the budget), and | come out 
ahead or behind in the computer game of life. This is a 
unique program in that it speaks to you in a personal 
voice, that of financial author Andrew Tobias (see The 
Only Investment Guide You'll Ever Need, next page). 
< 
—Stewart Brand 
Printouts of the reviewer's bottom line for 1984 — all 
income versus all expenses, with reality (through August) 
compared to budget, followed by my predicted cash situa- 
tion for the coming months. 
LTS TDS EE ET LED BE ST 
EE LIE LE REELS NSTI TE OTE IS 
¢ Nothing like having your personal finances all in order, 
only to have your pocket picked. Brigade Quartermaster 
has a great selection of concealable wallets (p. 275). 
