Ortho’s Home 
Improvement Encyclopedia 
“Hm . 
. 
. bet we could fix up this hovel with a little work. 
Wonder if we could handle the job ourselves?’’ With this 
weighty tome in your grasp, you probably can, assuming 
you have conquered initial fears and are thus able to start, 
and even that'll be easier because of the color pictures of 
_ the results you may expect. It’s so comprehensive that the 
table of contents takes up the entire back cover in fine 
print; if what you need isn’t there, you probably don’t 
need to know it. It covers house and grounds, adding 
and repairing. 
| 
facings Press facing with finger to locate screws. then 
| 
pry facing up with knife Work carefully to minimize 
| 
| 
creasing Use strong contact cement to regive 
—JB 
Reader’s Digest 
_Fix-It-Yourself Manual 
Say what you will about Reader's Digest magazine, 
_ you're going to have to admit they do a great manual. 
_ With this at your side, you can undertake the repair of 
_ just about anything found in a typical household. If you 
_ don’t know about tools or how things work, the book tells 
_ you what you need to know — and without any trace of 
_ chauvinism. The range of subjects covered is huge, every- 
| thing from tightening the rungs in the kitchen stool to 
whipping that rusty Coleman stove back into shape. The 
| Dreaded Oversimplification only appears briefly in the 
| auto section. A superior book in every way, especially in 
clarity. Cheaper than a repair person’s house call too. —JB 
| 
Hidden screws and trick connections 
SAE 
Screws are often concealed under decorative metal 
Natural springiness permits plastic parts to be con- 
nected by simple tab and notch arrangements 
Illustra- 
tion shows housing of can opener Posts on one half of 
housing are being pried trom holes in other half 
e 
© 
= 
= 
To separate parts held together by keyhole and bolt 
method. 
slide one part horizontally with respect to the 
other. then pull the two apart’ Sharp rap may help if 
parts are stuck Bolts are adjustable for tighter fit 
Plastic plug In housing of appliance is almost sure to 
have assembly screw beneath 
it 
Pry plug out with 
strong. sharp instrument 
Some marring 
of finish 
is 
inevitable no matter how carefully you work 
Hidden spring chip 
Top of clothes dryer may be held by hidden spring 
clips To release lop. inser! putty knife under it, push 
knife against clip, and pull up on top Pair of clips 2 in 
from each end are usually used 
Metal cap must be pried off to reach both main 
assembly nut and thermostat adjustment screw of this 
fryer control. Nut can be removed with hollow shank nut 
driver Adjustment screw 1s in center of control shaft 
e Learn to paint your house, in great detail, from. . 
. 
How To Paint Your House: Kirk Harbeck, 1982; 52 pp.; $6.95 
($7.95 postpaid) from McDaniel House Publishing, P. O. Box 
13265, Portland, OR 97213 (or Whole Earth Access). 
Find out about indoor pollution from this book. 
Indoor Air Quality and Human Health: Isaac Turiel, 1985; 
173 pp. $24.95 postpaid from Stanford University Press, 
Stanford, CA 94305 (or Whole Earth Access). 
To stretch the screen: 
Bend the door frame slightly by placing sticks under 
each end of the door and clamping the middle down to 
the sawhorse planks. Staple the top of the screen in 
place, release the tension slowly, then staple both sides. 
Do not staple the center rail until last. Trim the excess 
screen with a sharp knife and replace the molding. 
SR 
SI 
TR IT 
ETE 
The Straight Poop 
This charming home-published book takes a chatty per- 
sonal approach rather than a scary authoritarian one, 
but it’s professional nevertheless. A special section dubbed 
“The Dirty Dozen” will get you through most emergencies 
without calling a plumber. Other repairs are discussed 
with unusual realism, especially concerning the yukkiness 
likely to be encountered. (Things are rarely as neat as 
other books would have you believe.) A boon: old-style 
plumbing such as Victorian commodes that sound like 
dragon burps are addressed with an expertise I’ve never 
seen anywhere else. 
—JB 
@ 
If your wet sag or drip from the ceiling is below a tub or 
shower, discovering whether you have a pressure leak or 
a gravity leak can sometimes be quite exasperating. At 
least 70 percent of these complaints that | look at end 
up being a gravity leak. .. 
. 
If you can remove the shower head from the shower arm 
and find exposed pipe threads, then go to the hardware 
store and purchase a 2 inch female pipe by male hose 
adapter. Thread it onto the shower arm and then thread 
a garden hose onto the adaptor. Now run the hose out 
a convenient window or door and then turn the shower 
on full (hot and cold) and let it run for a good ten 
minutes or more. 
With the water going out the hose and not the tub 
drain, if you do not have any more leakage, then you 
can assume that you do have a drain related gravity leak. 
Poor Packing Condition 
Will Leave Drip Here 
HoT 
HOUSEHOLD 
REPAIR 129 
Ortho’s Home 
Improvement 
Encyclopedia 
Karin Shakery, Editor 
1985; 512 pp. 
$24.95 
($25.95 postpaid) from: 
Ortho Books 
575 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94105 
or Whole Earth Access 
Reader’s Digest 
Fix-It-Yourself 
Manual 
1978; 480 pp. 
$19.98 
($21.92 postpaid) from: 
Reader’s Digest 
Atin.: Order Entry 
Pleasantville, NY 10570 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Straight Poop 
Peter A. Hemp 
1986; 176 pp. 
$8.95 
($9.95 postpaid) from: 
Ten Speed Press 
P.O. Box 7123 
Berkeley, CA 94707 
or Whole Earth Access 
