46 
Po 
ne 
ww 
~ 
os SSSALSSEVK 
Shwe 
vamnenan 
BIOREGIONS 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
BIOREGIONS 
by Peter Warshall 
12. 
13. 
i4. 
The BioRegional Quiz 
When you turn on your faucet, where 
does the water come from? (Can you 
trace it back to local storm systems?) 
When you flush the toilet, where does 
the water go? (not just the treatment 
plant, but the final river or lake). 
What soil series are you standing on? 
How long is the growing season? 
What are the major geological events 
that shaped your bioregion (faults, up- 
lifts, downwarps, volcanics, sea floods, 
etc)? Does your community give them 
special attention . 
. . are they sacred, 
blessed, protected? 
How did the original inhabitants eat, 
clothe, and shelter themselves? How 
did they celebrate the seasonal 
changes in times before you? 
How many days until the moon is full? 
From where you are sitting, point north. 
What other bioregions of the planet 
have the most similar climate, 
culture, and analogous plants and 
animals? In other words, who are 
your Gaian cousins? 
Name the major plant/animal asso- 
ciations that thrive in your bioregion. 
Name five resident and migratory 
birds; five grasses; five trees; five 
mammals and reptiles or amphibians. 
Which are native? 
Name the plant or animal that is the 
“barometer” of environmental health 
for your bioregion? How’s it doing? 
endangered? threatened? thriving? 
Has it become a symbol or totem 
of local power for your community? 
Name the bioregions that grew each 
item of food on your dinner plate. 
Could you eat more locally? Support 
nearby farms? 
Where does your garbage go? 
What heavenly events most influence 
life in your bioregion? (Fire? lightning? 
hail? tornadoes? fog? blizzards? 
drought? permafrost? chubascos? 
spring thaw?) 
BMERROTIC REALS 
» Bifkan 
- Breganisn 
. Yskor Teiga 
, Kenawsanr Trge 
. Beaters Farast 
. Bexteenparias 
. 
Vakitas ninas 
» Somes 
. Chiuakuas 
3. Jaruutipes 
2 SerHas Sasinr 
> RsgBan teiends 
3. Sisekan Tassdsa 
- Benedion Tunvre 
» Reedis Reetigelage 
, Greenland Tyne 
. &scRn Lernust and recep 
. Grassiansy 
. Rasky Mauntsins 
» Sierre-Cancas 
Mi. Madmean-Comtiveran 
22. Great Lakas 
IOREGIONALISM IS A recent revisioning of North America. It passionately 
opposes the homogenization and pasteurization of regional culture and natural 
landscape. Bioregionalists despise the you-could-be-anywhere motel room, 
Muzak, fast food, and highway strip as both gross and harsh on the human 
spirit. They encourage our uprooted, super-mobile citizenry to stop and look and feel the 
bios — the life of the natural and human world immediately surrounding them — a life, 
so to speak, that needs to be walked and talked to be loved. 
Bioregionalism places great emphasis on time-depth. Its vision of the future is solidly 
enmeshed in a respect for the “ancient ones” — the long-term residents — be they rocks, 
bristlecone pine, creeks, kachinas, zithers, or gumbo. It celebrates a more personal and 
organic sense of beauty. Gifts, homes, poetry, pottery and painting connect directly 
to local materials — crafted by human hands — not the quick-and-easy purchase of 
prefabricated doodads from I. Magnin or the Seven-Eleven. In this sense, it is a quest 
to radically decentralized notions of beauty and values . 
. 
. from the Commodity Big 
Boys and National Television to homey, grassroots pride in local stuff. Self-reliance, 
even for entertainment. 
Bioregionalism is also a knee-jerk kick to the recent hammering of American democracy. 
Who can feel part of America when their senator represents five million citizens and the 
Congress is packed with 50 percent lawyers? Today’s democracy is a long way from Jack- 
sonian times when a Senator might be the voice of 10,000 voters and Davy Crockett 
could actually make it to Congress. In other words, “representative democracy” is getting 
stretched thin. There is a yearning for more “direct democracy” — the New England 
town meeting or the tribal council — in which individual action has more weight. Ima- 
gine, come November, Americans going to the polling booth and voting directly on how 
their tax money should be divvied up: how much to military, to welfare, to preserve open 
spaces, to fight toxics and water pollution, to fund retirement, health, education and 
welfare. Could direct democracy really be any worse than electing a lawyer beholden 
to special interest groups to go to Washington to bargain with other lawyers? 
Bioregionalism (bios, life; regere, rule or govern) is, in part, a desire to establish a more 
direct democracy by encompassing a larger sense of community in a more ecological 
sense of space: by the eco-culture, for the eco-culture, and of the land and waters. It is 
still embryonic, defining its shape and goals. But both a stronger voice for all minorities, 
including nonhuman creatures, and a switch from alientated voters to citizens who feel 
rewarded and happy participating in governing (self-determination) are two strong 
currents in the bioregionalist river. 
The next 13 pages introduce North American bioregionalism with the broadest brush- 
strokes. In fact, too broad. But, space restrictions limit us to the “spirit” rather than the 
details of bioregionalism. For instance, the deserts are more properly five deserts; the 
broadleaf forests more properly seven or eight forest types; all the mountain zones are a 
patchwork of complex ecological inter-fingerings. You will have to refine each sense of 
bioregion by overlaying your own sense of cultural and biological boundaries with re- 
gional topographic wonders like the Ozarks or Great Lakes or Snake River Plateau. We 
emphasize the regional bards — the poets, novelists, historians, musicians — to help 
celebrate each region’s joie de vivre. Simultaneously, bioregionalism continues to resist 
the Hostess Twinkie syndrome and to pray for the preservation of the continent’s natural 
integrity. From song, spirit; from spirit, muscle; muscle, the common earth. = 
This introduction owes a lot to Jim Dodge’s much more extensive intro in the special bioregional issue of the 
CoEvolution Quarterly (No. 32, 1981), edited by Peter Berg and Stephanie Mills. Thanks to them and Kelly Kina- 
scher; Destiny, M.D.; Joe Browder; Diana Hadley; Tony Burgess; Rosey Woolridge; Joanne Kyger; and Jim Katz. 
