COMMUNICATIONS 
COMICS 
306 
RE COMICS SOLELY “KID’S STUFF”? 
If you ask your average citizens this pres- 
sing question, they’ll likely answer with 
an adamant “Yes!”” — though a few fans 
of Doonesbury and Garfield may point to the fun- 
nies page in the daily paper as an exception to 
the rule. 
Twas not always thus. The first comic strips at the 
turn of the century were aimed almost exclusively at 
adults. Mutt and Jeff, one of the earliest strips, got 
its start in the S.F Chronicle’s sports pages with 
jokes about horse racing. One-panel political and 
gag cartoons grew up in the 19th century in non- 
juvenile humor magazines like Punch, Judge, and 
Life. More recently, when comic books as we know 
them got off the ground at the start of the 1940s, they 
found their largest audience in WWII servicemen. 
It was only with the advent of television and the 
baby boom that comics increasingly came to rely on 
kids as their staple readers. This situation held for 
most of the ’50s and ’60s until the counterculture 
spawned the subgenre of underground comix aimed 
at hip adults. Undergrounds foreswore the voluntary 
censorship that kept other comic publishers locked 
into preadolescent markets. The results were, by 
turns, creative, jarring, entertaining, and offensive, 
and a significant number of underground artists 
and publishers have continued to produce unique 
works right up to the present. However, because of 
their emphasis on taboo-breaking, undergrounds 
have never captured a mass audience and likely 
never will. 
il as! 
S| 
es 
It was left for a new wave of comics publishers — 
_ variously called alternative or independent — to yank 
, comics up a notch in status. Heavy Metal magazine 
initiated the process in the mid ’70s with its slick- 
paper reprints of comic stories from France (where 
comics have always had a large adult audience). In- 
dependent publishers such as First Comics, Eclipse 
Comics, and Fantagraphics have kept the momentum 
going with “graphic novels” (book length, softbound 
color comics) and a new spate of adventurous comic 
books especially aimed at comic collectors. These 
latter comics often closely ape the mainstream (ju- 
venile) comics from publishers like Marvel and DC; 
the biggest sellers continue to be superhero stories. 
However, there are also a significant number of ex- 
ceptions to the rule, the best independent comics 
being fully mature fare with no apologies. 
The listings that follow are unavoidably incomplete. 
Given the turnover in new titles and in artists assigned 
to books, outstanding comics often have all-too- 
brief lifespans. Here are some that are flourishing as 
I write. 
—Jay Kinney 
Fantagraphics Books 
Catalog free from 4359 Cornell Road, Agoura, 
CA 91301. 
One of the smallest independent publishers 
and one of the most willing to take risks. Fanta- 
graphic’s leading publication, Comics Journal, 
has been arguing the case for better comics for 
years. Now with a growing line of unusual titles, 
publisher Gary Groth is putting his money 
where his mouth is. 
Journey 
First Comics 
Love and Rockets 
Arguably the finest regular comic now being 
IL 60610. 
An epic tale of frontiersman Wolverine Mac- 
Allistaire in the wilds of Michigan. William 
Newsletter free from 435 N. LaSalle, Chicago, 
Messner-Loebs’ complex and unique personal 
statement. 
The Comics Journal 
Gary Groth, Editor. $18/year (9 issues) from 
Fantagraphics (see address on left). 
The only essential journal of news and criticism 
for the comics industry. Good coverage of both 
mainstream and alternative comics and creators. 
Shatter 
When it initially appeared, this title scored 
piles of publicity as the first comic book drawn 
published. Written and drawn by the Hernandez 
brothers, Love and Rockets combines classic 
comic art with scripts worthy of Gabriel Garcia 
Marquez. Plus it has the best female characters 
in comics today. Seek this one out! 
Neat Stuff 
Peter Bagge’s gross, slapstick, and — yes — 
insightful comic strips about childhood and 
neer-do-wells. 
Of all the independents, this publisher is closest 
to Marvel Comics in product: lots of superheroes 
and several titles outlasting the departure of 
their original creators. 
Nexus 
As good a science fiction universe as you are 
likely to find in comics; superior art and writing 
by Mike Baron and Steve Rude. 
on a computer (a Macintosh). With originator 
Michael Saenz now gone, it isn’t the same, but 
it’s still worth a look. 
American Flagg! 
For its first two years this was the finest comic 
being published by First — a blistering, dys- 
topian future vision written and drawn by Howard 
Chaykin. Graphic novel reprints of its best epi- 
sodes (such as Hard Times) are worth obtaining. 
