312 
TRENDS 
Wall Street 
Journal 
Robert Bartley, Editor 
$1 14/year 
(260 issues) from: 
Wall Street Journal 
200 Burnett Road 
Chicopee, MA 01021 
Utne Reader 
Eric Utne, Editor 
$1 8/year 
(6 issues) from: 
Utne Reader 
P. O. Box 1974 
Marion, OH 43305 
Whole Earth 
Review 
Kevin Kelly, Editor 
| 8/year 
(4 issues) from: 
Whole Earth Review 
P. O. Box 15187 
Santa Ana, CA 92705 
COMMUNICATIONS 
EVERAL TIMES A YEAR, I reserve an entire day to peruse the stock of a large magazine store. 
I snoop into everything from Modern Hair Styles to Supermarket Manager’s Monthly, Battles 
of World War II, CB, Kung-fu, Jack & Jill, People, Motor Trend, Four Wheel Drive, Orchid 
Raising, Consumer Reports, Playboy and Playgirl, Woman’s Day, Art News, Modern Camera, 
Ski, Vogue Patterns, Field & Stream, Dogs, Cats, Horses . 
. .egad! Snoop-reading gives me a cross-section 
of what is going on in this vast country. Perhaps it’s a bizarre idea, but I have found over the years that the 
habit really does seem to reveal trends. I usually make peace with the magazine store by buying one now 
and then as the day progresses. I am limited, finally, by curvature of the spine, clatter from the mental 
storage-retrieval system, and squint. 
This game can also be played in the periodical room of a big library. If it is a university library, you will 
soon be into things you have never even heard of, let alone suspected that there were enough people inter- 
ested in to make possible a specialized magazine. Most universities admit anyone at all to the periodical 
room without an ID, and furnish you with good light and a nice chair too. Whenever I get to feeling pro- 
vincial, I hie me to the nearest one and settle in for a spell. I’ve found that a significant number of the 
successful ideas and good times of my life have come rather directly from being able to say, “I remember 
reading about some people that were . 
. .” Specialist periodicals are also the best place to establish access 
to further knowledge in that field, not so much from facts given in the feature articles, but in the ads. 
Advertising has reduced the theory to practical usefulness, if that’s what you need. That’s where I find new 
catalogs, too. 
—J. Baldwin 
The Wall Street Journal 
The only daily NEWSpaper. Perhaps because it’s har- 
nessed to real events (namely price changes, the relatively 
uncontrollable democracy of the market), The Wall Street 
Journal has an honesty. Having an honesty it has an 
originality (maybe those qualities are not separable). | 
know that if | were restricted to two periodicals for all my 
news, | would take Science (p. 26) and The Wall Street 
Journal. 
—Stewart Brand 
e 
One procedure that has long disturbed animal activists 
is the LD50 test. Widely used since the 1920s, the test 
involves force-feeding products to 40 or more animals, 
usually rodents, until half of them die. The lethal dose for 
50% of the population establishes the product’s ranking 
of an index of acute toxicity. Over the years, rats at P&G 
have been force-fed the ingredients of Tide detergent, 
Prell shampoo and Downy fabric softener, among others. 
@ 
Why is a truly accurate artificial chocolate flavor so 
hard to come up with? ‘‘Chocolate is one of Mother 
Nature’s best-kept secrets,’’ says James F. Echeandia, 
a candy consultant in Orlando, Fla. Only the flavors of 
coffee and sizzling meat are harder to reproduce. 
e 
Man himself has become a limiting factor in jet-fighter 
technology. ‘‘In terms of performance, I’d say the plane 
right now is ahead of its human pilot,’’ says William 
Lowe, a test pilot at McDonnell Douglas Corp. ‘‘It can 
dish out more than we can take, both physically and 
mentally. ’’ 
In fact, when General Dynamics Corp. designed the 
F-16, now the military’s principal attack jet, it engineered 
the plane right up to the pilot’s usual physical limits for 
enduring G-forces, a measure of acceleration defined by 
gravity ... 
One result of all this is a widening debate within the 
military concerning the design of future jets. If pilots 
can’t endure much more abuse than current jets require, 
one argument goes, then perhaps combat fighters, as 
now used, will soon become obsolete. 
Utne Reader 
Handy idea, handy result. 
A magazine offering “The 
best of the alternative press’’ — a Reader's Digest for 
New Age types. The press represented varies in its 
alternativity from Esquire, Savvy, and Harper's, to In 
These Times, ChurchWorld, The Progressive (some good 
stuff, makes me want to check out the source publication), 
The Guardian, and Dissent. (Those and more are in one 
issue.) There’re full articles, edited articles, glosses, and 
magazine reviews by subject area (a bunch on renewable 
energy, a bunch on American Indians). 
By and large any issue is bound to stop scanners and 
force them to read two to six times — that’s better than 
Esquire or New Age Journal are managing these days. 
If you’re cutting back on your magazine exposure, prob- 
ably a healthy practice in the excessively pop culture 
going on, the Utne Reader might be a good tool for 
tapering off. 
—Stewart Brand 
When the male lodge takes the form of a men’s talk- 
group, it can become a context for the naming of male 
wounds — wounds that often fester because men don’t 
talk about them. Another power of the male lodge — 
whether as actual physical place, mythic motif, mode of 
conversation and presence, or simple pleasures of friend- 
ship — is that it allows men to develop feeling judgments 
and values of their own, and to establish patterns of 
relationship unconstrained by the notion that women 
are the rightful arbiters of what constitutes feeling. 
Whole Earth Review 
All the wonderful things we don’t have room to explore 
here we print in our magazine of unorthodox cultural and 
technical news. See inside front cover of this Catalog for 
more explanation. 
—Kevin Kelly 
