The Farming Game 
Farms and farmers have been disappearing in large 
numbers in America since the 1950s. The Farming Game 
explains the arithmetic that has greased this economic 
slide, and also suggests strategies for people interested in 
surviving this trend and farming in the 1980s. Bryan Jones 
has a style reminiscent of Will Rogers — an ear for ironic 
humor, political savvy, and a simmering contempt for 
bureaucratic institutions (big banks, government, 
universities). His lectures on profit and advice on 
diversification are the perfect antidote for romantic 
agrarian notions. This is a book that any beginner will 
need and anyone with experience will nod at knowingly. 
—Richard Nilsen 
e 
“Hell, Ed, who ya tryin’ to kid? You’d be the first dumb 
bastard plantin’ corn if it was worth ten cents a bushel. 
Ya got the habit bad as anyone | know. The few birds 
you ain’t killed yet start chirpin’ in the spring, an’ you'll 
wax that tractor a coupla times, fire ‘er up, an’ go plant 
corn. It ain’t your fault. It’s just like heroin, or overeatin’, 
or any other kind of bad habit, is what it is.“’ 
SLA 
ET 
SES SE 
Peaceful Valley Farm Supply 
If for some absurd reason | had to do all my agricultural 
shopping with just one catalog, Peaceful Valley Farm 
Supply would be the one. With it | could buy a BSC tiller, 
Speedling Transplant Flats or beneficial insects for pest 
control. Or Fawn fescue grass seed (by the pound or the 
sack), earthworm castings or a bristlecone pine tree. More 
than 475 varieties of plants are for sale in the current 
catalog, including the Floyd Zaiger line of genetically 
dwarfing fruit and nut trees. The emphasis is on 
ecologically sound products and the service is friendly. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Peaceful Valley 
Farm Supply 
11173 Peaceful Valley Road 
Nevada City, CA 95959 
Peaceful Valley 
Farm Supply 
Catalog $2 from: 
JIFFY PEAT STRIPS 
Same materials as Jiffy-Pots but molded into strips for easy handling 
and inserting into trays. Separate easily for planting. 
2%”’ square pots. 12 pots per strip. 
Pack of 3 strips (36 pots): $2.35 
(1#) 
Case of 200 strips (2400 pots): $75.00 
(26#) 
pas<. 
1%’’ square pots. 12 pots per strip. 
Egg BL 
Case pf 400 strips (4800 pots): $71.65 
(22#) Qi? 
1%” square pots . 12 pots per strip. 
Case of 300 strips (3600 pots): $79.50 
(25) 
¢ This magazine is ‘dedicated to putting people, profit and 
biological permanence back into farming by giving farmers 
the information they need to take charge of their farms and 
their futures.”’ It is run by a non-profit organization and is 
the best single source for economically sound alternative 
techniques for commercial farmers. 
The New Farm: George DeVault, Editor; $15/year (7 issues) 
from Regenerative Agriculture Association, 222 Main Street, 
Emmaus, PA 18049. 
New Roots for Agriculture 
e 
The Land Institute 
New Roots for Agriculture takes conventional agricultural 
wisdom and stands it on its head. The problem is not 
organic versus chemical methods, but rather the plow ver- 
sus sod: plow and your soil will erode; leave the earth’s 
vegetative skin undisturbed and the soil stays in place. 
By way of illustration, Wes Jackson begins by describing 
a rainy Sunday drive through the Mennonite country of 
south-central Kansas. These are among the best 
ecological farmers in business — land stewardship is even 
a basic tenet of their religion — yet the streams run black 
with soil from their freshly seeded fields. It’s an image 
that percolates through the rest of the book, because if 
these are our “‘best’’ farmers, then how much mud is in 
everybody else’s streams? 
Jackson’s solution is to imitate nature, and in this his 
method resembles Fukuoka’s (see The One-Straw Revolu- 
tion, p. 61). Instead of raising annuals and churning up 
the soil every year, plant perennials and let the plant 
roots hold the soil where it belongs. Instead of monocul- 
tures like wheat, plant polycultures that mimic the native 
prairie flora. With perennial polycultures the trick is to 
get the yield high enough to make this method feasible. 
Will it work? Nobody knows, because most all the 
research so far has gone toward perfecting annual crops. 
At the Land Institute outside Salina, Kansas, Jackson and 
his wife Dana and staff are busy testing perennial native 
grasses. Follow their developments through The Land 
Report. From their tiny test plots may come grains for the 
future. For now, New Roots for Agriculture is an eloquent 
and disturbing book. 
—Richard Nilsen 
@ 
| think we must acknowlege that humans can be ex- 
pected to be wicked and stupid for a long time to come. 
And though there is no reason the land should not be 
punishing our evil and error, there is also no reason why 
the land should be the principal loser as it has been 
since till agriculture began. The task before us, therefore, 
is to build an agriculture that is resilient to human folly, 
an agriculture that rewards wisdom and patience, an 
agriculture in which the land remains resilient but not 
silent during those excursions toward some dangerous 
unknown, dangerous because we have become too 
enamored with our own cleverness and enterprise. 
—New Roots for Agriculture 
TL MEN OT 
II 
A PD 
agAccess 
A slim, quarterly catalog of books and software doesn’t 
seem like a big deal at first, but this is an almost 
unbelievably useful service, long needed. The agAccess 
folks offer to sell “every agricultural book in print,’’ and 
to find you a reference on virtually any agricultural 
subject. The catalog consists of expert reviews of various 
publications and computer software programs useful to 
farmers. Though accenting the organic and generally 
eco-righteous, the service covers all sorts of cultivation — 
aven turf for golf courses. It’s run by nice people too. 
Gaining Ground: The Renewal of America’s Small Farms 
(by J. Tevere MacFadyen, 1984): 
The author lets the farmers explain the myriad issues that 
face small farmers working toward economic viability. 
This book is about people as well as agricultural issues, 
and it provides a charming and thorough forum for both. 
Good reading for anyone interested in the small farm vs. 
agribusiness debate. 242 pages, hardcover. $16.95. 
LAND USE 
FARMING 85 
New Roots for 
Agriculture 
Wes Jackson 
1980; 151 pp. 
$6.95 
($8.45 postpaid) from: 
University of 
Nebraska Press 
901 North 17th Street 
Lincoln, NE 68588-0520 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Land Report 
Dana Jackson, Editor 
$ 5/year (3 issues) from: 
The Land Institute 
Route 3 
Salina, KS 67401 
The Farming Game 
Bryan Jones 
1982; 221 pp. 
$16.95 
($18.45 postpaid) from: 
University of 
Nebraska Press 
901 North 17th Street 
Lincoln, NE 68588-0520 
or Whole Earth Access 
agAccess 
David Katz, Editor 
$8.50 /ear 
(6 issues) from: 
agAccess 
615 Merchant Street 
Vacaville, CA 95688 
