—Threads 
SEE a 
Threads 
The publishers of Fine Woodworking (p. 168) and Fine 
Homebuilding (p. 122) have come out with another beau- 
tiful magazine, Threads. With a style and look all its own, 
Threads is not just another pretty face. It is filled with in- 
teresting, well-written articles that cover the gamut of the 
fiber arts field. It has articles about and by leading textile 
artists as well as pieces on freestyle embroidery, Gobelins- 
style tapestry, weft twining, hand-quilting, knitting, dyeing, 
felting, sewing hand-wovens, and on and on. My particular 
interests are in embroidery and weaving, but | find that 
every time an issue of Threads arrives, | read it cover to 
cover. The piece de resistance is the back cover, which is 
like a great dessert after a wonderful meal. 
—Susan Erkel Ryan [Suggested by many] 
“Garden Wall II,’’ 48 in. x 46 in. cotton, was Elizabeth 
Gurrier’s last white-on-white quilt to be exhibited. She has 
since moved on to color, hand painting before she quilts. 
LRA NST 
IG 
ES 
TE SN 
e Marilyn Green, who helped assemble these pages (and 
introduced us to weaver Rhoda London), is a librarian, 
crafter, craft collector, mail-order aficionado, and writer. 
Using the Indonesian method of laying 
fabric against the open paim of the hand 
to apply wax with a tjanting tool. 
Fiberarts 
A copy of Fiberarts will fill you in on the latest shows, 
classes, and events in the field. They run lots of color pic- 
tures of fiberwork, making the magazine a good source 
for inspiration. 
—Marilyn Green 
At Play, black-on-white silk screen print by Harwood Steiger. 
His printed fabrics are produced entirely by hand, from 
mixing dyes and cutting stencils to the actual printing. 
> Beast of Burden, from the 
Dog Table series, 1985; fabric 
over welded steel frame, 
glass; 20 x 26 x 36 inches. 
“| consciously wanted to 
change my work because it 
was reminding me of how-to 
kits in ’Woman’s Day’ maga- 
zine,’ fabric sculptress Lynn 
DiNino remarked wryly about 
her recent transition from 
purely ‘‘soft’’ pieces to works 
which include steel, wood, 
and wire, as well as fabric. 
FIBER ARTS 
CRAFT 
177 
< Nek Chand’s fantasy garden, at the Capital Children’s Museum in Wash- 
ington, D.C., is a magical, charmed place, a world not our own.... The 
cloth people begin as metal skeletons. They are wrapped, like mummies, 
with long pieces of cloth pieced together from smaller fragments. When 
a body is full, it is tautly covered with 
large patchworked cloth. Then it is dressed 
in cast-off clothing. 
Threads 
John Kelsey, Editor 
$1 6/year 
(6 issues) from 
The Taunton Press 
Subscription Dept. 
P.O. Box 355 
Newton, CT 06470 
Fiberarts 
Kate Mathews-Pulleyn, 
Editor 
$1 8/year 
(6 issues) from 
Fiberarts 
50 College Street 
Asheville, NC 28801 
