LIVELIHOOD 
Condensed from 
Honest Business (p. 192). 
HY DO PEOPLE WORK AT JOBS they don’t like? Why do they say their 
goal in life is to “make a lot of money?” 
“A lot of money will let me be free to do what I want.” 
“People with a lot of money command more respect from others.” 
“T need more money for my family.” 
“Money is necessary for security in old age.” 
These statements are illusions — inaccurate perceptions of the world we live in. 
Nearly all high school students seek “a lot of money” as a lifetime goal. Less than 5 per- 
cent of them will become wealthy. The remaining 95 percent will shape their lives around 
these inappropriate values. 
aN 
lot of money will let 
me be free to do what I want.” 
You can feel this way when you work at 
a job you dislike, or when you desperately 
want to buy some object, experience, or 
service. Instead, deal with these feelings 
directly and positively. Write down your 
specific goals — the things you need (ex- 
periences, knowledge, skills, talents) to 
shape the kind of person you want to be. 
Make sure your list doesn’t include money 
itself. 
You may find from your list that having a 
lot of money will help you achieve goals a 
little sooner. But that effect is not worth 
the time spent, nor vigor and joy lost, earn- 
ing money. Most accomplishments require, 
instead of money, that you actively pursue 
them and /earn in the process. If you want 
to travel the world, join the crew of a sail- 
ing ship. Later you’ll be useful as a sailor 
and have the necessary great stories about 
hitting sharks on the nose in the Bahamas. 
Check your list again and see how many 
possessions are listed there. The posses- 
sions unrelated to your livelihood are often 
amassed to help you feel better about your- 
self. Many of them can be borrowed from 
friends who are willing to share — every- 
thing from a ski condominium in Snowmass 
to an Aston-Martin race car. Or consider 
renting pieces of equipment you are unable 
to locate among your friends. Find and 
restore “discards,” or trade your existing 
possessions or skills to a friend or neighbor 
in exchange for something you want. 
In examining your values 
it’s helpful to talk to some- 
one who is wise. The goal 
of amassing money is tra- 
ditionally called “greed” 
and regardless of your 
motives (freedom, charity, 
etc.), the results will not 
be what you hope for. In- 
stead, the teachers of tradition tell us to 
become good at the things we want to do. 
In that lies our freedom. 
llusions 
and the non- -money truths they hide 
by 
Michael Phillips, 
Salli Rasberry, and 
Andorra Freeman 
Ps 
with a lot 
of money 
command 
more respect 
from others.” 
We often believe that the owners of the 
big cars and houses can do much more 
than we can. If indeed they can, then it 
probably isn’t their money. It’s other 
qualities such as knowledge, experience, 
and friends. 
It helps to make a list of the qualities that 
lead others to respect us — qualities we 
want our children or friends to have. Do 
words such as loyal, honest, and generous 
occur on your list? Each of these qualities 
has to do with how we conduct our daily 
lives, not how much money we have. 
Now list the people you love. See if they’re 
ranked in order of wealth. There is prob- 
ably no relationship. Money isn’t a reason 
for friendship or respect. 
I 
need 
more money 
for my 
family.” 
When someone works at a job that they 
find unpleasant, monotonous, stressful, or 
