NOMADICS- 
280 CANOEING, KAYAKING 
Canoe 
George |. Thomas, Editor 
$1 5/year 
(6 issues) from: 
Canoe 
P. O. Box 10748 
Des Moines, |A 50349 
Canoeing 
Handbook 
Geoff Good, Editor 
1983; 349 pp. 
$18.75 
postpaid from: 
Sea Trek 
Schoonmaker Point — 
Foot of Spring Street 
Sausalito, CA 94965 
An improvised 
spritsail rig. 
The Entry-Level 
Guide to Canoeing 
& Kayaking 
John Viehman, Editor 
$3.95 \ear 
(annual) from: 
Canoe 
P.O. Box 597 
Camden, ME 08483 
> 
T’S JUST YOU AND THE WATER and a simple, silent, responsive craft. That’s not news: people 
have been paddling for thousands of years. The news is imaginative designs made possible by modern 
materials. Kayaks weigh half what they did ten years ago. Same for canoes, and the better brands — 
Mad River* is a good one — have adapted sophisticated shapes that have finally left the birchbark 
look behind. Whitewater canoes are now nearly indestructible; I’ve criminally abused my Blue Hole* 
16-footer for years and it still works fine. Rowing boats used to be so fragile that only a few specially- 
trained people could use them. Now anyone can join the fun. We’re not showing a bunch of boats here, 
because there are literally hundreds of ’em, each adapted to certain uses. Check Canoe magazine or your 
local dealer for advice. I’d advise against buying by mail unless you are pretty sure of what you want. 
It’s best to paddle first. 
—JB 
Canoe 
After a bit of struggle, this magazine now serves all canoers 
and kayakers, and quite nicely too. Canoe’s December 
issue features a Buyer’s Guide that’s the only place you 
can compare (on paper) all available brands. 
—JB 
Flare in the bow will help keep 
water from rolling into the boat 
as it heads into waves and spray. 
A slight amount of tumblehome 
may be desirable at the paddling 
stations on tandem canoes to 
give better access to the water. 
In “‘sit-n-switch’’ solo canoes, 
this tumblehome is even more 
important, since the overall 
width can be a hindrance 
for a sitting paddler. 
Canoeing Handbook 
Paddle power is what this book is about: canoes and 
kayaks of every sort used for touring, racing, and frolic. 
What makes the book special is the inclusion of lesser- 
known subjects such as sea and surf kayaks, sailing canoes, 
and instruction for disabled folks. If your arms work OK, 
you can probably go boating. Design, equipment choice, 
technique, and training are all discussed for the many 
kinds of boats and water conditions. ““Comprehensive’’ 
would be a fair description here. The British viewpoint 
and word use is useful and not a hindrance. 
—JB [Suggested by Will Nordby] 
A rocking exercise to train the paddler to stay in an 
inverted canoe. 
The Entry-Level Guide 
to Canoeing & Kayaking 
RBrx Csy 
The editors of Canoe magazine publish this guide once 
a year. It’s especially good for helping you decide what 
equipment you need (the ads are pure catnip) and encour- 
aging you to use it well. There are articles on elementary 
technique, renting, and places to learn. But it’s the ad- 
venture stories, tantalizingly illustrated with calendar 
photographs, that are gonna getcha... 
—JB 
[Suggested by Will Nordby] 
*Mad River Canoes: information free from P. O. Box 610W, 
Mad River Green, Waitsfield, VT 05673. 
*Blue Hole Canoes: information free from The Blue Hole 
Canoe Co., Sunbright, TN 37872. 
