GAY POLITICS 
COMMUNITY 97 
OOKS BY AND ABOUT gay men and lesbians no longer hide their covers. They range from the 
personal through the political, touching on history, culture, legal rights, parenting, and litera- 
ture. Gay and lesbian writing (their worlds do not always overlap) explores community and its 
ramifications, using specifics of culture to propose universals of human experience. 
—Aaron Shurin 
Christianity, Social Tolerance 
and Homosexuality 
Boswell nails down history with scrupulous scholarship, 
using a wide variety of source materials to explore the 
problematic relationship between the Christian church 
and homosexuality. Changing, evolving attitudes towards 
sexuality, from the pre-Christian era through the middle 
ages, portray homosexuality as a natural expression 
caught in a social crisis. The introduction and appendices 
are invaluable historical documents. 
—Aaron Shurin 
Christianity, Social 
Tolerance and 
Homosexuality 
John Boswell 
1980; 424 pp. 
$12.95 
postpaid from: 
University of Chicago Press 
11030 South Langley Ave. 
Chicago, IL 60628 
or Whole Earth Access 
Antinous. Roman, second century A.D. (?). One of the 
best of many surviving statues of the young man from 
Bithynia loved by the Emperor Hadrian. Antinous was 
drowned in the Nile in 130 A.D., and the grief-stricken 
emperor honored his memory by founding cities, estab- 
lishing games, and erecting statues in his name throughout 
the empire. (Courtesy of Museo archeologico nazionale, 
Naples). 
Another Mother Tongue 
Poet Judy Grahn traces gay cultural history from the 
legends and vocabulary of gay life, bringing new mean- 
ing and cohesiveness to same-sex experience. Dykes and 
Faggots (she celebrates these words, revealing their 
etymology and power) have served as shamans in various 
cultures throughout history — including our own. They 
flame; they burn; they change themselves and the world. 
—Jeanne Carstensen 
That's literally what dike means — balance, the path. 
The name of the goddess Dike of Greece, who was old 
Gaia’s granddaughter, meant ‘the way, the path.’’ And 
her social function was natural balance, the keeping of 
the balance of forces. With her two sisters Eunomia 
(‘‘Order’’) and Eirene (’’Peace’’), she was present at the 
birth of Hermes. The three sisters were known as the 
Hours and were worshipped in conjunction with Demeter 
as a foursome, mostly by women. 
A Legal Guide for Lesbian 
and Gay Couples 
Anyone who’s entered into a business with a friend without 
signing a contract knows what pressure that can put on a 
personal relationship. This book approaches lesbian/gay 
relationships with the same concerns — how to deal with 
money, time, and parental issues before they become 
problems. And its information on financial agreements, 
wills, and child custody and support is as useful for 
unmarried straight couples as it is for gays. 
Included are case histories, sample contracts, and estab- 
lished legal precedents (including, for example, what 
precedents the Marvin vs. Marvin case established). But 
the book is especially valuable for its simple language 
and tone of loving concern — it is about how to keep 
it together. 
—Annette Jarvie 
@ 
The legal position of lesbian and gay students has changed 
dramatically — and for the better — in the past decade. 
One striking example is the court order which required 
that a gay high school senior be allowed to attend his 
school’s senior prom with his male date. The rights of 
students to speak, form organizations, and sponsor 
activities, all explictly lesbian- and gay-oriented, have 
been firmly established by the courts. 
SS A 
STE 
SOIT DES 
Yo 
a 
SD 
Jack the Modernist 
Robert Gluck’s post-modern prose is all a reader could 
ask for: wryly self-conscious, full of careening rhythms 
and inventive formal approaches, love-laden, psychologi- 
cally probing, and politically smart. Gluck writes about 
sex with the unabashedness of Genet and the perceptive- 
ness of Proust. Always before him is the integration of 
eroticism and the social issues that feed it. —Aaron Shurin 
° The best weekly coverage of gay and lesbian current 
events. Politically progressive. 
Gay Community News: G. Gottlieb, S. Poggi and L. Hayes, 
Editors. $29/year (50 issues) from GCN, 167 Tremont Street, 
Boston, MA 02111. 
© Political and cultural reporting with colorful features 
and interviews. 
The Advocate: Lenny Giteck, Editor. $39.97/year (26 issues) 
from The Advocate, P. O. Box 4371, Los Angeles, CA 90078. 
The Lesbian Path 
This anthology draws on the work of over thirty of America’s 
finest lesbian writers, including Judy Grahn, Susan Grif- 
fin, Audre Lorde, and Jane Rule. The stories offer a range 
of always-true tales, exploding the boundaries of tradi- 
tional autobiography, and proposing a view of lesbianism 
as more than a sexual or political fact: it’s a way of being 
in the world. | —Aaron Shurin 
The Lesbian Path 
Margaret Cruikshank 
1985; 219 pp. 
$8.95 
($9.95 postpaid) from: 
Subterranean Co. 
Box 10233 
Eugene, OR 97440 
or Whole Earth Access 
Another 
Mother Tongue 
Judy Grahn 
1984; 324 pp. 
$9.95 
($11.95 postpaid) from: 
Beacon Press 
25 Beacon Street 
Boston, MA 02108 
or Whole Earth Access 
A Legal Guide 
for Lesbian and 
Gay Couples 
(4th Edition) 
Hayden Curry and 
Denis Clifford 
1986; 257 pp. 
$17.95 
($19.45 postpaid) from: 
Nolo Press 
950 Parker Street 
Berkeley, CA 94710 
or Whole Earth Access 
Jack the 
Modernist 
Robert Gluck 
1985; 166 pp. 
$7.95 
($9.20 postpaid) from: 
Gay Presses of New York 
Box 29 
Village Station, NY 10014 
or Whole Earth Access 
