Soldier of Fortune 
Repulsive, ghoulish, brutal, sickening. That’s war. And 
that’s often the response to this notorious magazine that 
serves as a clubhouse for self-avowed mercenaries and 
gung-ho warriors. The talk is of guns and guns and big- 
ger weapons, strategies, and heroics. Us against them. 
But war is really the enemy we should be fighting. Know 
thy enemy, portrayed unflinchingly in these pages. 
—Kevin Kelly 
Terrorism Training . 
. 
. 
The opening of Iran’s new ‘College of Information and 
Security’’ was approved 19 January by Iranian officials 
in a high-level Tehran meeting. . 
. 
. A class of 250 will 
begin training in April, various SOF sources report, who 
say instruction will prepare students for careers in Iranian 
intelligence — and terrorism. 
. 
. 
. Fifty and possibly 
more students will come from Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and 
Bahrain, sources told the magazine. 
There’s little doubt the Warsaw Pact powers will be our 
opponent should another major conflict occur, and our 
entire defense doctrine is based upon that premise. How 
can we best prepare our troops for that possibility? Simple. 
Create our own pseudo-Soviet adversary, train him with 
Soviet doctrine, arm and equip him with Soviet gear, and 
pit him against our own regular Army forces. 
Charging an enemy ambush. It may be your first, last, and 
only chance for survival. 
The War Atlas 
The current placement and strength of armies and 
weapon systems; the fruits of wars already waged; 
the flow of the arms trade — all these rather dry 
yet scary statistics are here converted into hand- 
some, multicolored maps which effortlessly make 
the obscure clear. If, like me, you’ve been ques- 
tioning whether we really need yet another dozen 
or two books examining the arms race and nuclear 
dilemma to the point of utter redundancy, you’ll 
probably find The War Atlas conveys most of the 
same information in a much more interesting form. 
—Jay Kinney 
How to Make War 
Did you ever wonder what would really happen if our 
navy and the Russian navy went to war? Or perhaps you 
would like to know just how much a war would cost 
(monetarily). Whatever your interest, if it concerns the 
implements, components, and probabilities of war, James 
F. Dunnigan has covered it in How to Make War. | couldn’t 
put this book down. It makes the defense budget debates 
much more transparent and infuriating. 
_—Hal Ham 
Most men do not enter combat thinking they will be 
killed or injured. In warfare during this century, the odds 
of serving in the infantry during combat and being unin- 
jured have been less than one in three. If potential 
recruits knew their chances, it would be much more diffi- 
cult to get anyone into the infantry. 
Indeed, given a choice, many would volunteer for any 
other branch of the armed forces to avoid the infantry. 
Most other branches are no more dangerous than civilian 
life. Even the armor and artillery branches offer a better- 
than-even chance of seeing a war’s end uninjured. 
The cost of fighting a war today will be substantially 
higher than for peacetime operations. This is largely due 
to the high cost of ammunition. Currently a ton of con- 
ventional ammunition costs about $7000. A ton of 
missile munitions costs over half a million dollars. Some 
improved conventional munitions (ICM) cost ten times 
more than standard shells and bombs. The high cost of 
the more expensive munitions represents two things. One 
is the greater developmental cost. Second, their greater 
complexity requires much more labor during manufac- 
turing. Under wartime conditions, economies of scale 
could reduce their cost by five or more times. Still, the 
price of an average ton of munitions could still be 
$22,000 or more. 
Drones and remotely piloted vehicles (RPV’s) are pilotless 
aircraft. A drone flies a preprogrammed course, some- 
times with onboard navigation equipment to correct any 
flight deviations. An RPV is controlled from the ground. 
With electronic warfare becoming ever more intense, the 
advantages of the drones over RPVs have increased. An 
RPV’s link with its ground controller can be jammed. A 
drone is impervious to such jamming. 
The rationale for such aircraft is simple; you don’t lose a 
pilot if a drone is shot down. . 
. 
. However, there is a 
major problem. One man’s technological breakthrough 
is another man’s threat. Drones threaten to take away 
pilot jobs. Few people in the air forces will come right 
out and say this. But halfhearted enthusiasm for drones 
can be traced back to pilots’ unease over their becoming 
too effective. This is ironic, as the air forces themselves 
had to fight similar prejudice in their early years. 
COMMUNITY 
WAR 95 
The War Atlas 
Michael Kidron 
and Dan Smith 
1983; 120 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Simon & Schuster 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
or Whole Earth Access 
How to Make War 
James F. Dunnigan 
1982; 442 pp. 
$8.95 
($10.45 postpaid) from: 
William Morrow 
Publishing Co. 
6 Henderson Drive 
West Caldwell, NJ 07006 
or Whole Earth Access 
Soldier of Fortune 
Robert K. Brown, Editor 
$23.95 /year 
(12 issues) from: 
Soldier of Fortune 
P. O. Box 348 
Mount Morris, IL 61054 
