328 
FILM 
independent 
Filmmaking 
Lenny Lipton 
1983; 445 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Simon & Schuster 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
or Whole Earth Access 
When the 
Shooting Stops... 
the Cutting Begins 
Ralph Rosenblum and 
Robert Karen 
OUT OF PRINT 
Penguin Books 
American 
Cinematographer 
George Turner, Editor 
$22ivear 
(12 issues) from: 
American 
Cinematographer 
P. O. Box 2230 
Hollywood, CA 90078 
Millimeter 
Peter Caranicas, Editor 
$45 year 
(12 issues) from: 
Millimeter 
P. O. Box 95759 
Cleveland, OH 44101 
COMMUNICATIONS 
The Steadicam. 
Expensive and 
cumbersome, it is the 
last word in smooth 
hand-held cinema- 
tography, and has been 
used to good effect on 
many features. 
(Cinema Products) 
independent Filmmaking 
My quick survey of film schools shows Lipton’s book still 
the favorite how-to. After more than ten years in print and 
some 110,000 copies sold, it’s become a kind of institu- 
tion. Video freaks may find Lipton’s views condescending, 
but he has added a useful section called ‘’Video for the 
Filmmaker.’’ This book remains technically astute and 
entertaining to read. 
—Tom Schneider 
It’s usually quite easy to produce smooth motion on the 
screen hand-holding a camera with a lens half the nor- 
mal focal length, say 5 to 7 millimeters for 8mm and 
super 8, or 10 millimeters for 14mm. Short focal lengths 
also help to take the place of a tripod you’re trying to 
hold steady, with no intended motion. With practice, it’s 
very nearly possible to reproduce the steadiness of a 
dolly or tripod mounted camera. Accomplishing this is 
really no great feat. To help hold a motionless shot 
steady, you can lean against anything available, a wall 
for example, but really, this isn’t necessary. 
Why use a tripod, if it doesn’t matter? The traditional 
advice for filmmaking is to use a tripod whenever possible. 
My practice is to avoid using a tripod whenever possible. 
< 
Spliced optical track 
often makes a popping 
sound at the splice point. 
The way to eliminate this 
is called blooping. You 
make a small oval or 
wedge shape over the 
splice with ink. This 
makes an inaudible 
sound that covers the 
sound of the splice. You 
can use especially form- 
ulated blooping ink, or you can try metallic blooping 
tape, cut to the shape of a flat parallelogram, and 
pressed directly over the splice. 
The Bloop. Such an appliqué 
may be cut from special 
blooping tape 
Bloop 
When the Shooting Stops... 
the Cutting Begins 
This book is undeservedly out of print. Here is an engag- 
ing history of film editing told by Rosenblum, an editor 
who seems to have been in many historically important 
editing rooms. He started in the forties, assisting Helen 
Van Dongen, the stoic cutter who (this book reveals) took 
director Robert Flaherty’s stream-of-consciousness 
cinematography and carved it into cogent films like The 
Louisiana Story. 
The tale is spiced by eavesdropping on privileged conver- 
sations. Behind the editing room door famous directors 
confess their secret insecurities. In exchange for this con- 
fidence, the editor/father/analyst accepts an unspoken 
contract: No matter how much the footage is reworked 
and “‘saved in the editing room,”’ all the credit will 
remain with the director. 
We are a fly on the wall as Woody Allen and Marshall 
Brickman learn that the most brilliant comic writing (An- 
nie Hall) sometimes falls flat on the screen, and that the 
biggest laugh comes at the most unexpected point. Even 
a director as experienced as Sydney Lumet (The 
Pawnbroker) turns to Rosenblum to solve problems 
never foreseen in the shooting script. 
Every film craft should have a book this good written 
about it. 
—Tom Schneider 
8 
As a director of live TV shows Sidney [Lumet] had to 
make fast editorial choices, pushing buttons in his booth 
to select the best camera angle from those available on 
his monitor screens. As a filmmaker, the editing impulse 
has remained. He is the only director I’ve worked with 
who could tell me cut-for-cut what he wanted in a scene 
and even come up with tricks | had never considered. An 
example arose during the editing of Long Day’s Journey. 
| had always cut dialogue scenes by carefully choosing 
whether to focus on the speaker or the listener. Lumet 
came up with an alternative approach, ‘‘mathematical 
cutting, ’’ in which we cut back and forth from one actor 
to the other in evenly matched but progressively shorter 
snippets of film, totally ignoring who was talking and 
who was listening, and markedly increasing the tension. 
Clearly, if a picture needed astute editorial considera- 
tion, Sidney was the director to handle it. 
American Cinematographer 
e 
Millimeter 
You can be an insider for the price of a subscription. 
American Cinematographer is where you'll find out how 
it’s done when you can hire ten experts and all the 
equipment you need to produce three perfect minutes on 
screen. Cinematographer has taken more interest lately 
in the history of American filmmaking, besides front-line 
reports on the latest marriages of film and video. 
Millimeter, ‘The Magazine of the Motion Picture and 
Televisiof Production Industries, ’’ is the journal that’s 
making the marriage work. Its attitude is let’s get on with 
it: Film or tape, television or cinema, what's the difference, 
as long as there’s money to be made. Sometimes it’s hard 
to tell the ads from the editorial material, but to take the 
pulse of the film industry, East Coast, West Coast, and in 
between, this is the one. 
—Tom Schneider 
The glowing face 
of a murderer, 
Boris Karloff, is 
reflected in the 
victim’s eye in 
“The Invisible 
Ray” (1936). 
—American 
Cinematographer 
¢ Our reviewer for these pages is Tom Schneider, a 
filmmaker, and author of one of our favorite books, The 
Moveable Nest (p. 141) and its syndicated newspaper 
column version. 
