HEALTH 
SEX 
230 
The Joy of Sex 
If a book is judged on how profoundly it affects people’s 
lives, and how many lives it reaches, this book is one of 
the all-time greats. You can’t read it without trying some 
of the ideas in it, and those lead to others, and human 
The Joy of Sex 
Alex Comfort 
1972; 253 pp. 
$14.95 
postpaid from: 
Simon & Schuster 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
or Whole Earth Access 
My Secret Garden 
e Forbidden Flowers 
e Men in Love 
By female and male acclaim these are the horniest books 
in print. They are made of letters to Nancy Friday by 
innumerable women telling their sexual fantasies in vivid 
detail. They're liberating and a turn-on for women — 
completely defusing any lingering guilt about having such 
fantasies — and enlightening and a turn-on for men, dis- 
solving what was long thought to be a major difference 
and barrier between the sexes (also tangentially educating 
males on how to be a sensitive and imaginative lover 
rather than a narrow-minded clod). 
The second book, Forbidden Flowers, is even more explicit 
since the women are responding to the excitement of My 
Secret Garden. A number of the correspondents announce 
gleefully that they are masturbating as they write. Nice 
books to read alone, or aloud with a good friend. 
—SB 
And now there’s a third book, Men In Love. It, too, is 
erotic as all getout, though somehow the men don’t seem 
as imaginative as the women in the other books. 
—JB 
My Secret Garden: Nancy Friday, 1973; 336 pp. 
Forbidden Flowers: Nancy Friday, 1975; 324 pp. 
Each $4.50 postpaid from Simon & Schuster/Mail Order 
Sales, 200 Old Tappan Road, Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
(or Whole Earth Access). 
Men in Love: Nancy Friday, 1980; 542 pp. $4.95 ($5.70 
postpaid) from Dell Books, P. O. Box 1000, Pinebrook, NJ 
07058-1000 (or Whole Earth Access). 
Okay, here goes . 
. 
. (I may have to go and masturbate 
before | can finish this, as my mind goes blank). 
| have often thought 
it would be very yummy 
(and now that | think 
of it, very messy, too) 
if somebody would pee 
inside me (depends 
on who’s washing 
the sheets)... . 
—My Secret Garden 
| am now divorced but 
have a lover, and most 
times when we make love | 
imagine it is the penis of a 
large dog or horse that is 
entering me, or a dog lick- 
ing me and hordes of dogs 
all screwing madly. This 
really turns me on. | don’t 
know why this should be 
or why it is only dogs and 
HREE RECENT TRENDS MAKE ACCESS to good information about sex more important 
than ever. First, the highly visible controversies about pornography and abortion (which have 
the effect, in my opinion, of obscuring useful personal information). Second, the rise of the 
VCR‘s popularity and the growing number of sexual videotapes. Third, the proliferation of 
sexually transmitted diseases (see p. 282). Here are the essentials, compiled from suggestions by Michael 
Castleman (author of Sexual Solutions), 
Joani Blank (Good Vibrations), Susie Bright (editor of On Our 
Backs), Stewart Brand, and myself. 
—Art Kleiner 
relationships grow steadily warmer. In the writing, the 
content, and the illustrations, warmth is what the book is 
about. And imagination, and variety. Contact. Health. 
—Stewart Brand 
. 
. 
. The quickie is the equivalent of inspiration, and you 
should let it strike lightning fashion, any time and almost 
anywhere, from bed in the middle of the night to halfway 
up a spiral stair: anywhere that you’re suddenly alone 
and the inspiration is bilateral. Not that one or other 
won't sometimes specifically ask, but the inspirational 
quickie is mutual, and half the fun is that the preliminary 
communication is wordless between real lovers. The rule 
is never to resist this linkup if it’s at all possible — with 
quickness, wit and skill it usually is. This means proficiency 
in handling sitting, standing and other postures, and 
making love without undressing. The ideal quickie posi- 
tion, the nude matrimonial, will often be out. This may 
mean on a chair, against a tree, in a washroom. If you 
have to wait and can go straight home, it will keep up to 
half an hour. Longer than that and it’s a new occasion. 
Around the house, try not to block, even if you are busy. 
Sexual Mail Order 
In many places mail order is the only way to buy vibrators, 
lingerie, and sex toys. The companies here send catalogs 
discreetly (usually in plain envelopes) and don’t release 
your name without permission. As Stephanie Mills once 
wrote, “‘If all the electric pleasuring devices available 
herein were plugged in simultaneously, both coasts would 
be browned out. So much the better. ’’ 
—Art Kleiner and Joani Blank 
Eve's Garden, 119 West 57th Street, New York, NY 10019; 
catalog $2. A classy, comparatively mainstream source for 
lingerie and toys. 
As You Like It, P. O. Box 59077, Dept. W, San Francisco, 
ST 
Sa 
LIS 
TE 
ES I 
ES REE TE STE ETI 
TE 
horses. My lover knows about this and likes to talk about 
it, but he does not understand either. While we are mak- 
ing love he says, ‘Don’t you wish | were a large Alsatian 
or that this was a stallion’s penis between your legs? ’’ 
—My Secret Garden 
| feel the smooth rush of power available to me when- 
ever | ask for it, and as we reach the crest of a short hill, 
| accelerate just enough to raise both of us slightly from 
the seat. As my tight pants stretch across my crotch, | 
become aware of the engine's throbbing heat against it, 
as if | were riding a huge flying cock. 
—Forbidden Flowers 
ST 
IN TNE LISTE RE ETT NTS EE ISTE TORE ESET 
¢ First of its kind: a serious (but not boring) newsletter on 
sexuality written for the general public. 
Sexual Well-Being: Diane Morrissette, Editor. $36/year (12 
issues) from Sexual Health Resources, P. O. Box 60332, Palo 
Alto, CA 94306. 
