THE CROWNING, by Judy Chicago; poster, 25’’ x 38”’ 
from JC/WIN, 1728 Bissonnet, Houston, TX 77005. 
$10 unsigned, $20 signed (plus $3.00 shipping). 
The Whole Birth Catalog 
The title says it all — 300-plus pages about birth. A true 
panoply executed in the Whole Earth Catalog format, it’s 
the best source for everything on the topic | have seen. 
This book is advocacy as well as education for alternative 
and innovative birthing options. 
—Andrea Sharp 
Janet Isaacs Ashford also edits Childbirth Alternatives 
Quarterly, “the on-going Whole Birth Catalog,” and 
maintains a list of updated addresses for the Catalog. 
—Jeanne Carstensen 
NURTURING ‘NEWS 
FATHERS 
3 goarecty fe 
First-Time Father 
i 
F 
pees 
SS 
in the company of achild. Asa 
father | am not expected to enjoy 
and participate in my FATHER=- 
ers enjoy and participate in their 
MOTHERHOOD. So much for ex- 
pectations!” 
—from “ ‘Doing’ Matthew” by 
Michael Robinson, Nurturing News, 
June 1982. 
Sherri Nance, with the help of other members of her 
organization, Premature, Inc., has written a desperately 
needed book and has done an excellent job of it. The 
book is the only one we know of that is specifically 
designed for the parent of a premature baby. Because it 
HOOD to the same extent that moth- 
CHILDBIRTH 
is written by other parents of prematures, the book 
focuses on exactly what a parent needs to know. In the 
first half of the book, Nance deals with the hospital 
experience after the birth of a premature child. She 
discusses some causes and effects of prematurity, and 
parents’ role in the care of their baby. She gives detailed 
descriptions of the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit, its 
equipment, and staff — explaining everything briefly but 
clearly. She also provides a list of steps that can be taken 
to cope financially with the child’s care. Nance 
recommends asking questions of the staff and giving the 
baby as much love and stimulation as possible (and/or 
permissable). In short, she tries to help parents feel as 
comfortable with the situation as possible through 
preparation and knowledge. The second half of the book 
focuses on parenting the premature infant. She discusses 
the reactions of friends and families and the emotional 
state of the parents, including their fears. A large 
portion is devoted to feeding the child, with information 
on breast pumping, care of the breast, and switching 
from bottle to breast when the baby comes home. She 
does include information on formulas and instances 
when formula use would be indicated. 
Premature Babies (A Handbook for Parents): Sherri Nance, 
1982; 322 pp., illus. $15.95 from Arbor House Publishing 
Company, 235 E. 45th St., New York, NY 10017. 
Childbirth Resources 
To find out about childbirth classes, midwives, and birth 
options in your area, write to any or all of the following 
organizations: 
Informed Birth and Parenting: catalog free from P. O. Box 
3675, Ann Arbor, Mi 48106 
National Association of Parents and Professionals for Safe 
Alternatives in Childbirth: membership $15/year (includes 
NAPSAC News Quarterly); information free; all from 
NAPSAC International, P. O. Box 646, Marble Hill, 
MO 63764. 
Birthworks: catalog free from Cesarean Prevention 
Movement, P. O. Box 152, Syracuse, NY 13210. 
International Childbirth Education Association: catalog free 
from P. O. Box 20048, Minneapolis, MN 55420. 
—Peggy O’Mara McMahon 
Circumcision 
It isn’t often one has an option with surgery. Circumcision, 
often done routinely, is one of those times. My husband 
and | used this book to help make our decision (further 
complicated by our both being Jewish) not to circumcise 
if we had a son. All aspects of the question are fully 
covered, including a description of the operation and 
before and after diagrams. The decision to not circumcise 
is reversible, but circumcision is irrevocable. 
—Andrea Sharp 
e 
According to many American physicians, the uncircum- 
cised penis is a difficult organ to keep clean; in fact, so 
difficult that preventive surgery is urged for the sake of 
cleanliness. No other body organ is dealt with so sum- 
TTS 
RE 
ETI I ELI 
NS RS ESE IS EI 
e A hen sat on an orange, and it hatched! 
This story is (1) Inconceivable 
(2) Impregnable 
(3) Unbearable 
marily for supposed hygienic purposes. If the penis is ac- 
tually such an unhygienic organ, then it should follow 
that about 75% of the world’s male population, i.e., 
those who remain uncircumcised throughout life, must be 
paying a dreadful price in pain and disease as a result. 
There is no evidence that this is true. If the world’s uncir- 
cumcised male population had severe foreskin problems, 
physicians in other countries would have adopted either 
newborn or adult circumcision practices. They have 
done neither. 
Diagrammatic 
Representation 
of Circumcision 
with the Gomco 
Clamp. 
HEALTH 237 
Ixcuina, the Aztec goddess 
of childbirth. 
The Whole 
Birth Catalog 
Janet Isaacs Ashford, 
Editor 
1983; 313 pp. 
$12.95 
($13.95 postpaid) from: 
The Crossing Press 
P. O. Box 640 
Trumansburg, NY 14886 
or Whole Earth Access 
Whole Birth Catalog 
Address Update $2 
Childbirth Alternatives 
Quarterly 
$15/year (4 issues) 
Both from: 
Janet Ashford 
14230 Elva Avenue 
Saratoga, CA 95070 
Circumcision 
Edward Wallerstein 
1980; 281 pp. 
$16.95 
($18.95 postpaid) from: 
Springer Publishing Co. 
536 Broadway 
New York, NY 10012 
or Whole Earth Access 
