HOUSEHOLD 
WATER USE 
138 
ATER CONSERVATION HAS entered the mainstream. It is as common as small cars. Utilities 
now understand: Citizens would rather cut use by half than pay for bonds and new taxes to double 
supply. River lovers have been an effective lobby: Save water at home; you save trout streams in 
the hills. Even the tortoise-like plumbing industry has accepted low-flush toilets as the sound of 
the future. This is a success story. But don’t forget to insist that your plumbing supply store sell water-saving 
shower heads. And flow reducers and toilets (should be less than 2 gallons per flush). Don’t forget to vote 
against unnecessary bonds when conservation can do the job. Hats off to water savers. Relish it next time 
you swim or fish or float downstream. There is no longer any single book in print that sums up home water 
conservation. Captain Hydro is to teach the kids. We All Live Downstream (best equipment access) and Septic 
Tank Practices (see next page) both have good chapters on water saving. 
—Peter Warshall 
The Official Captain 
Planning for an 
around American-style do-it-yourself manual. The best for 
Hydro Water 
Individual Water System 
electric pumps and wiring your water supply system. 
Conservation 
Gorgeously illustrated with lots of great safety tips. 
Workbook 
The book you want will depend on the volume of water 
. 
—Peter Warshall 
1982; 39 pp. 
you need (enough for washing dishes or for fire protec- 
Available to teachers 
and school districts 
Information free from: 
East Bay Municipal 
Utility District 
P. O. Box 24055 
Oakland, CA 94623 
Planning for 
an Individual 
Water System 
A.AY.1.M. 
1982; 160 pp. 
$12 
($14 postpaid) from: 
American Association for 
Vocational Instructional 
Materials 
120 Driftmier 
Engineering Center 
Athens, GA 30602 
or Whole Earth Access 
Troubled Water 
Jonathan King 
1985; 235 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
Rodale Press 
33 East Minor Street 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
or Whole Earth Access 
tion), the possible source (well, pond, or roof collector), 
the quality of the water (potable or possibly polluted), the 
conveyance mechanism (electricity or gravity feed) and 
trade-offs between how much money you have and how 
much time you can spend operating and maintaining 
your water supply (hand pumps, backwash filter or 
automatic chlorinator). Planning is the best, no-fooling- 
Methods of roof washing for cistern water. (a) Hand- 
operated diversion valve used to waste first rainfall. 
After roof is washed, the valve is changed so water will 
enter the cistern. (b) Automatic roofwash. The first rain- 
fall flows into the drum. After the drum is filled, the re- 
maining water flows into the cistern. During a period 
without rainfall, water dripping from the opening in the 
waste line empties the drum. 
i 
HAND 
OPERATED 
DIVERSION 
VALVE 
DOWN SPOUT 
i FROM ROOF 
Troubled Water 
“Till taught by pain, man knows not water’s worth.’” —Byron 
The question | have been most asked by readers is: “Is 
my water safe?’’ The news in this book is not easily swal- 
lowed: plastic pipes leach carcinogens into drinking water; 
the Clean Water Act has not been effective; in-house 
water treatment like activated carbon helps but far from 
ensures clean water; bottled water may be just as pol- 
luted as tap water. 
The quick-flowing prose, muckraking style, and good ad- 
vice make this the best access to household water safety 
and aquatic politics. In general, if we forget cost, distillers 
and reverse osmosis filters are better than activated char- 
coal (AC). Under-the-sink AC is better than tap-installed. 
Don’t ever use powdered AC filters (only granulated or 
solid block). All filters need attentive maintenance. 
Replace or clean 25 percent earlier than manufacturer’s 
claims. 
—Peter Warshall 
Quick fixes: Here are a few short-term measures for 
reducing the concentrations of pollutants in your water. 
They are simple, but limited in the protection they provide. 
¢ Let your water run at full force for two or three 
%" WIRE SCREEN 
4° SQUARE HOLE 
IN BOTTOM GF 
; 
TROUGH 
: 
(& 22° WHEE 5 
minutes first thing in the morning. This will clear out rela- 
tively high levels of lead, cadmium, and copper that may 
have built up in the water sitting overnight in the pipes. 
¢ You can eliminate bacteria and some organic 
chemicals from your water by boiling it at least 20 
minutes. Experiments conducted by the EPA have shown 
that boiling removes only volatile organic chemicals — 
or those that evaporate easily. The chemicals escape into 
the air, so try not to breathe the air directly over the 
boiling water. Boiling is time-consuming and energy in- 
tensive and may concentrate the nonvolatile organics, 
heavy metals, and nitrates left behind in the water. 
¢ Whipping your water in an electric blender can 
remove some volatile chemicals. You should blend the 
water for about 15 minutes, with the top off. 
EES 
SAE 
II TEE TT 
TI 
NLS IV IETS 
° For water conservation programs, see “RMI” (p. 89). 
¢ For more about water pollution you should check 
““Biohazards”’ (p. 107). 
* You can save lots of garden or farm water by using drip 
irrigation. See the ‘Urban Farmer’’ (p. 79). 
