LEARNING 
GAMES 
362 
Games Magazine 
R. Wayne Schmittberger 
Editor 
$1 5.97 /year 
(12 issues) from: 
Games Magazine 
P. O. Box 10147 
Des Moines, IA 50340 
Children’s Games 
In Street and 
Playground 
lona and Peter Opie 
1969; 371 pp. 
$9.95 
postpaid from: 
Oxford University Press 
16-100 Pollitt Drive 
Fair Lawn, NJ 07410 
or Whole Earth Access 
Games 
Frank W. Harris 
1982; 84 pp. 
$6.95 
($7.95 postpaid) from: 
Frank W. Harris 
2129 Rose Street 
Berkeley, CA 94709 
or Whole Earth Access 
Games 
By games they mean brain games — puzzles and pencil 
games and board games that require cogitation. Some of 
the magazine is about games — a report on the Fourth 
National Wargaming Convention and a play-by-play 
analysis of a championship Scrabble game. But mostly it 
is games — good games that you can play alone or with 
others. A crossword puzzle with two sets of clues — very 
Where in the Whorl? 
If you find prints charming, 
* 
you'll enjoy this maze. Start 
at the arrow in the lower left 
corner, then journey to the 
center of the whorl by the 
. 
shortest possible path. Your 
route may not go outside the 
thumbprint. 
: crveToon 
HANS BRINKER 
FROM THE KNEES DOWN 
IS 
SLISAVZH NVANTVM ONIUVIM 
SAINENL OML 
hard and very easy, non-math logic puzzles, a 554-dot 
connect the dot puzzle, endless mindboggling word 
games and on and on. Also reader participation contests 
that make the ones in other magazines seem tame, and 
detailed reviews of new board games. The super slick, 
super graphic presentation seems appropriate in this 
case — hooks you right into playing as you leaf through. 
The games are consistently original and fun and funny. 
—Anne Herbert 
Children’s Games in 
Street and Playground 
Suppose you were trying to replace war. Would you be 
interested in ‘‘games in which children may deliberately 
scare each other, ritually hurt each other, take foolish 
risks, promote fights, play ten against one, and yet in 
which they consistently observe their own sense of fair 
play’’ (dust jacket blurb)? The games are not learned 
from adults but passed on through the generations of 
children. This study comes from England, which looks to 
have a much richer game cycle than American kids usu- 
ally experience. A product of ten years’ research, the 
book thoroughly describes the rules of play and the 
popularity of more than a thousand fascinating games. 
- 
—Stewart Brand 
Sardines 
‘Sardines’, played indoors or out, is the most popular of 
the games consisting purely of hiding and finding. One 
person goes off to hide while the others shut their eyes 
and count to the agreed number. The seekers split up, 
and search independently of each other. Indeed, if one 
of the seekers finds the hider he is careful not to let the 
others know, but slips into the hiding-place when they 
are not looking. Ideally the hiding-place should be 
somewhere that will accommodate all the players; but it 
seldom is, and as further players find it, and crowd in, 
According to Hoyle 
The Hoyle that folks want everything to be according to 
is this official rule book for most card, dice and other 
gambling games (e.g., Mah Jongg); board games such 
as Chess and Backgammon; plus a selection of parlor 
games. No more arguments. 
—JB 
($4.50 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
Order Dept. 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
According 
to Hoyle 
Richard L. Frey 
1970; 285 pp. 
$3.50 
the silent squeeze becomes tighter and more suffocating, 
players sometimes having to lie on top of each other. 
Those who are still searching gradually become aware 
that their fellow searchers are disappearing, and rush to 
the places where they were last seen, thinking they will 
be near the hidy-hole. When the last person arrives he is 
sometimes chased back to the starting-place, but more 
often than not there are just sighs of relief as the sar- 
dines extract themselves from their cramped positions, 
and complain of their stiffness and the length of time 
they have been waiting. 
Games 
Some fun old games (and some new) that work well for 
groups playing inside in a gymnasium-sized room. 
—Kevin Kelly 
You’re It! 
Johnny on the Pony (Buck, Buck) 
The first player in the standing team runs, places both 
hands on the back of one of the players bent over and 
jumps on top. Each succeeding player does the same 
until all players are astride the bent-over team. 
If any player sitting astride touches the ground in any 
way the other team stands and takes their turn. If all 
players of the second team succeed in staying astride 
without touching the ground they then call out in uni- 
son ‘‘Johnny on the pony, one, two, three’ and 
simultaneously bounce up and down. 
If any of them slip off while doing this, or touch the 
ground, the other team goes. If anyone on the bent-over 
team buckles or caves in the first team goes again. 
