COMMUNITY 
90 
Peace Corps 
Information 
free from: 
Peace Corps 
806 Connecticut Avenue 
Room P-301 
Washington, DC 20526 
Appropriate 
Technology 
Microfiche 
Reference Library 
Information free 
Library in case 
$695 
fiche reader 
$250-350 
(postage and handling 
varies by destination) 
Appropriate 
Technology Project 
Volunteers in Asia, Inc. 
P.O. Box 4543 
Stanford, CA 94305 
VITA News 
Margaret Crouch, Editor 
$1 5/year 
(4 issues) from: 
Volunteers in 
Technical Assistance 
1815 North Lynn Street 
Suite 200 
Arlington, VA 22209 
TRANET 
Dan Behrman, Editor 
$30/year 
(4 issues) from: 
TRANET 
P.O. Box 567 
Rangeley, ME 04970 
APPROPRIATE TECHNOLOGY 
VAN ILLICH ONCE COMMENTED rather impolitely that righteously inclined Americans would do 
more good if they worked at local U.S.A. problems instead of imposing themselves on foreign hosts. 
(My own experience abroad agrees; I suspect a contribution of my air fare money would have done 
more good than I did.) Nonetheless, there are certainly places where spirited yet humble application 
of expertise can help. If you want to get into this line of work, the Peace Corps is probably your best bet, but 
there are many other possibilities — especially church groups. “Doing time” is one of the best ways to learn. 
—J. Baldwin 
Peace Corps 
If the Peace Corps were ten percent as effective in saving 
the world as its ads imply, then the fact that 110,000 
volunteers have now returned from overseas would indi- 
cate that world salvation was in the bag. However, Peace 
Corps ads are more effective than the Peace Corps itself. 
So despite the genuine and highly publicized successes of 
the rare “super volunteer’’ — the term we had in 
Ecuador for the one guy who beat the odds — the third 
world is more deeply mired in poverty, oppression, and 
debt than when JFK launched the organization in 196]. 
Also, Peace Corps remains forever aligned with U.S. 
foreign policy, e.g., it has returned to Grenada, and is 
long gone from Nicaragua. So why join an outfit that 
marches to the same beat as the State Department and 
has no significant effect on lessening the woes of the 
underprivileged? Because the Peace Corps offers some- 
thing that isn’t emphasized in their ads, and definitely 
isn’t available here at home — a close look at under- 
development, or life at the bottom of the food chain. 
Understanding how the rest of the world lives can be a 
mind opener. 
Should you take the gamble, realize that the charm of 
native life will disappear the first day you see the village 
youve been assigned to; but you'll still receive basic 
language training, an excellent salary (by your 
coworkers’ standards), a month’s vacation each year plus 
travel allowance, access to good medical care, and final- 
ly a $175 readjustment allowance for each month of ser- 
vice when you return home. 
In other words, you'll experience the living conditions and 
poverty that the world’s majority lives in, without having 
to really eat it. | know of no other organization that can 
offer such an opportunity, and anyone interested in lan- 
guages, politics, and the human condition, or just serious 
travel (as opposed fo tourism) should consider this option. 
Don’t plan on changing the world though, just yourself. 
—Dick Fugett 
Appropriate Technology 
Microfiche Reference Library 
No less than 1000 of the best appropriate tech books and 
documents — about 140,000 pages — have been micro- 
fiched to fit into a small suitcase. A simple 120 AC, 240 
AC, or 12-volt (vehicle battery) fiche reader accompanies 
this deluge of information. Instant library! Affordable, 
too; the price of all this is about five percent of the real 
books, not to mention the cost of shipping and storing 
them. More than 100 countries have partaken of this 
opportunity so far. 
This powerful idea was hatched by Ken Darrow of VIA 
(Volunteers in Asia). He has a book coming out soon (but 
too late for our deadline) containing sharp reviews of all 
1000 of the fiched books. Watch for the Appropriate 
Technology Sourcebook in late ‘86. If you work overseas, 
you need this book and the library. Spread the word. —JB 
We put our appropriate technology library 
in a box... 
so you can 
put it on your desk! 
ITDG 
Stands for Intermediate Technology Development Group, 
founded by the late E. F. Schumacker of Small is Beautiful 
fame (p. 184). They’ve executed successful projects all 
over the world, and publish some of the more useful 
literature available on alternative technologies. 
—JB 
Intermediate Technology Development Group of North 
America, Inc: Information free from 777 United Nations 
Plaza, Suite 9A, New York, NY 10017. 
VITA 
For 25 years, Volunteers in Technical Assistance has been 
a reliable source of expert advice and an experienced 
stack of publications. You don’t join VITA as you would 
the Peace Corps, for 
instance, but you can 
make your special know- 
ledge available through 
them. Their record of ac- 
tion is inspiring; see for 
yourself in VITA News. —JB 
VITA cooperated with 
another group to develop a 
method for making these 
stove fuel briquettes from 
agricultural residues such 
as stalks and straw. 
TRANET 
Networking and information exchange is the name of the 
game, and TRANET (from TRANsnational NETwork for 
appropriate/alternative technologies) has done it better 
and wider for ten years now. The quarterly newsletter has 
good reviews of pertinent books plus lots of news 
excerpts. Lively and effective despite a bit of ’70s 
character, TRANET is the place to look first to see what's 
going on globally among people taking control of their 
own lives. 
—JB 
Private bus systems cost half as much as public ones to 
move the same number of people in many Third World 
cities, the World Bank’s transport adviser comments in 
The Urban Edge (World Bank, Room K 908, Washington, 
DC 20433, USA — free to developing countries, $25/year 
elsewhere). Private lines succeed in places like Hong 
Kong and Seoul while public systems run in the red (Sao 
Paulo’s takes $90 million a year in subsidies). Newsletter 
also mentions paratransit innovations such as Manila’s 
jeepneys and bus convoys in Sao Paulo that hope to 
move 21,000 passengers an hour. 
