BIRTH CONTROL 
HEALTH 233 
SSS 
a 
ET 
IT ED 
TE 
I TENET OIE IIL EEE ITER TI ESTE GIO ET 
IB TEI OI OTR 
Contraceptive Technology 
Current books on birth control are harder to find now that 
they‘re not the hot sellers they were during the 60s and 
70s. Yet most of us, even baby boomers, continue to need 
birth control in the 80s. Contraceptive Technology is writ- 
ten for physicians, but it’s still the best, most current 
source of birth control information for the layperson. It 
contains almost anything you could ask about birth con- 
trol use, safety and effectiveness. | count on the biennial 
editions to keep me posted on any new methods and 
to nourish my hope that a perfect “‘no risk, no mess’’ con- 
traceptive will be discovered. 
—Janna Katz 
The following 
options are available to women and men 
in the United 
States: 
e Abstinence from and alternatives to sexual intercourse 
¢ Condoms 
¢ Combined birth control Pills 
¢ Progestin-only Pills or Mini-Pills 
¢ Morning-after Pills or |UD insertion 
¢ Inert |UD’s 
¢ |UD’s that are medicated with copper 
e |UD’s that elaborate progesterone 
¢ Diaphragms 
¢ Cervical caps (an option in some communities) 
¢ Spermicidal sponges and suppositories 
¢ Contraceptive foam 
¢ Natural family planning approaches 
© Tubal ligation and hysterectomy 
e Vasectomy 
¢ Therapeutic abortion 
The trend to lower doses — lesser is better — ‘small is 
beautiful’’ 
Current combined Pills contain 1/25 to 1/4 the amount of 
progestin contained in our first Pills, and 1/5 to 1/2 the 
amount of estrogen. Some Pills, the progestin-only Pills 
or ‘‘Mini-Pills,“” contain no estrogen and less progestin 
than any of our current combined Pills. Three new 
technologies release a constant low dose of hormones: 
the progestin-elaborating |UD’s, subcutaneous silastic 
capsules, and injectable preparations. Similarly, the 
vaginal ring reduces the steroid dosage, which leads to 
fewer complaints of nausea and headaches than are 
observed in oral contraceptives. |UD’s have become 
slightly smaller, more delicate, more flexible. Abortions 
are being performed at earlier stages of gestation, and 
tubal ligations are being performed with less anesthesia 
and smaller incisions. 
8 
Unlike condoms or diaphragms, oral contraceptives 
(OC’s) provide no physical barrier to the transmission of 
sexually transmitted diseases (STD’s). OC’s have, in fact, 
been linked by some to increasing STD rates by (1) caus- 
ing abandonment of barrier methods and (2) leading to 
increased sexual activity. Clinicians caring for women 
using OC’s should have a heightened index of suspicion 
for lower genital tract infections, especially if symptoms 
or signs of cervicitis are present. 
The New No-Pill, 
No-Risk Birth Control 
At first glance, natural family planning sounds like my 
idea of the “perfect contraceptive’: it’s safe; completely 
natural, and nearly 100 percent effective. So why isn’t 
everyone using it? Maybe because they haven't read 
Nona Aguilar’s recently-updated book. To be sure, 
natural family planning isn’t for everyone. For all the 
benefits described in this book, not everyone is ready for 
the required periods of sexual abstinence and meticulous 
charting of daily fertility signs. But for couples in search of 
an ideal birth control method, this guide has a lot to offer. 
There is excellent instruction on every aspect of the 
method, sensitive advice, resources, and a lot of en- 
couragement. Interviews with couples using the method 
give real motivation and even show the positive side of 
abstinence. And for those of us not quite ready to relin- 
quish our pills, |UD, or barrier method, the techniques 
of charting described in this book can give clues to our 
hidden fertility. 
—Janna Katz 
The event of ovulation occurs during a very narrow time 
frame — twenty-four hours or less — and sperm cells 
survive less than five days in the woman’s reproductive 
tract. When the sperm’s estimated (maximum) survival 
time of five days is combined with the woman’s single 
day of fertility, then there are six days out of every cycle 
that lovemaking can cause pregnancy. Six days — barely 
20 percent of the average cycle — that’s all! 
© My Body, My Health (p. 210) has 200 pages of excellent 
birth control information. 
e |s it anti-life to be pro abortion rights? Author Kathleen 
McDonnell shows how public focus on that question is 
hindering understanding of abortion — especially of 
women’s feelings about it. Outstanding book. 
Not An Easy Choice: Kathleen McDonnell, 1984; 157 pp. 
$8 ($9.50 postpaid) from South End Press, 116 Saint Botolph 
Street, Boston, MA 02115. 
When you are infertile, your finger can easily touch your 
cervix, which is low in the vagina. The os (‘“mouth’’) is also 
closed, and the cervix feels firm to the touch. As you enter 
your fertile phase, your cervix will rise progressively 
higher in the vagina and will also open and soften to your 
touch. Sometimes during the fertile time the cervix rises so 
high that it becomes impossible to reach. If you can’t reach 
your cervix, you are fertile! 
2 
& HiGé SOFT awe 
ROTER CHEER 
The top row shows the 
dimplelike appearance of 
your cervix if you have not 
delivered a child vaginally. 
The bottom row shows its 
slitlike appearance if you have 
had a vaginal delivery. The cer- 
vices on the extreme left in- 
dicate infertility because they 
are closed; those on the ex- 
treme right are open so 
indicate fertility. 
The Rubber Tree 
Male and female contraceptives by mail. All kinds of 
condoms, sponges, and cream and jelly spermicides. 
—Kevin Kelly 
CRENING 
The Cervical Os 
OPENING 
Contraceptive 
Technology 
Robert A. Hatcher, M.D., 
et al. 
13th edition 
1986-87; 310 pp. 
$15.95 
($17.70 postpaid) from: 
Irvington Publishers 
740 Broadway, Suite 905 
New York, NY 10003 
or Whole Earth Access 
The New No-Pill 
No-Risk 
Birth Control 
Nona Aguilar 
1986; 240 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Macmillan Publishing Co. 
Order Dept. 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth Access 
CPE’ 
The Rubber Tree 
Catalog free from: 
ZPG — Seattle 
4426 Burke Avenue North 
Seattle, WA 98103 
