’ Puvere EAS GHELO FINE 
¥ 
Stas te AAO ALA REL 
; 
: 
PRAT AGAPLE ES! Hy! 
A daretns apy ry HRS 
Bt, ROLLS S 
C5 LD we 
lsd obs 
Transitions Abroad 
A guide to independent and educational travel that con- 
sists almost entirely of articles and travel tips sent in by its 
traveling readers. It’s usually about 60 pages long, printed 
on newsprint. The format and the writing are generally 
unpolished, but the articles are interesting, informative, 
and very timely. There are lots of specific addresses to 
help the traveler find work, classes, or any number of 
other situations all over the world. A number of inexpensive 
charter flights and other groups providing cheap transpor- 
tation also advertise regularly. Transitions’ articles are 
often about Africa, Asia, and a lot of the less-touristed 
CULTURAL AWARENESS 
Today English plays a part in most tests. Parents start their children’s 
language training early. Children’s English buysyibans are scattered all 
over Taipei and pay English teachers quite well, as much as NT$400 
(US $10) an hour, plus providing a Chinese teaching assistant to keep 
the kids in line. 
parts of the world as well as Europe and the more pop- 
ular tourist spots. 
—Steve Dunnington 
Studying Chinese in Taiwan 
On Taiwan foreign students don’t have to live in dorms, 
tuition is cheap and when money runs low one can drop 
out of class for a month or two without changing visa 
status. In addition, there are several schools to choose 
from. The only disadvantage is that the Chinese on Taiwan 
speak heavily accented Mandarin. Would you study 
Oxford English in Joisy City? . 
. 
. 
Unquestionably, the best school on the island is the 
Inter-University Program for Chinese Studies in Taipei. 
The other Mandarin centers on the island fall short of 
the standards set by I|UP. Shop around. Even after carefully 
choosing one of them, getting a teacher that suits one’s 
needs is a bit like playing Russian roulette. 
The problem may lie in the Chinese concept of educa- 
tion. The Chinese don’t study, they shou jyau-yy, literally 
“receive learning.’’ Foreign students often end up ina 
small room with an instructor who wants him to blindly 
recite from a book, hardly a method for developing ac- 
tive language skills. Students also complain that teachers 
give few corrections. If you find yourself in either situa- 
tion ask for a new teacher. 
Living in the U.S.A. 
An astonishing book. Though it’s written for foreigners 
planning to travel or work in the U.S. — and serves that 
purpose splendidly — | would recommend it most strong- 
ly to Americans who are planning to travel elsewhere 
or are expecting to deal routinely with foreign visitors. 
Americans are very odd. Everybody else is expending 
considerable effort to treat us as if we were human be- 
ings. It is well to know the details of what they are putting 
up with and, by implication, what is normal for the rest 
of humanity. 
—Stewart Brand 
6 
INFORMALITY 
Although American informality is well known, many 
interpret it as a lack of respect when they first encounter 
it, especially in the business world. The almost immediate 
use of first names, for example, jars on nerves long ac- 
customed to deference or respect from men of lower rank. 
Don’t be surprised if Americans do not shake hands. 
They often just nod or smile instead. A casual ‘‘Hi’’ or 
‘“‘How are you doing?”’ or ‘’Hello’’ often takes the place 
of a formal handshake, but it means the same thing. 
Nor will you find Americans circulating about a group 
in the office or at a party giving each one a personal 
farewell. Instead — again the different sense of timing 
and pace — they will just wave a cheery ‘‘good-by”’ 
or say something informal to the whole group such as 
“Well, see you tomorrow” or “So long everybody.” 
Then they. will disappear. No handshakes. 
Often you will see men working at office desks in shirt- 
sleeves, sometimes without their ties. They may lean 
far back in their chairs and even put their feet on the 
radiator or desk while they talk on the telephone. This 
also is not meant to be rude. Once we get out of the 
tense, hurried city streets, we are a loose-jointed, in- 
formal, relaxed people. 
Our pace is total — either totally hurried, intense, work- 
absorbed, and competitive (in play as well as work), or 
else totally at ease, relaxed, “laid back’’ and informal, 
our manner breezy. We tend to swing between these 
extremes. This is the pendulum you need to understand 
if you are to understand America and its people. 
Culturgram 
“‘Culturgrams are briefings to aid understanding of, feel- 
ing for, and communication with other people.’’ They 
succeed admirably. 
Each Culturgram contains much of the sort of information 
usually left out of guidebooks: how to act when invited in- 
to someone’s home, how to avoid being unintentionally 
obnoxious or frightening. 
The price is right: $1.25 postpaid, for each four-page, 
812 x 1] inch pamphlet. There are currently 90 Culturgrams 
available. Other publications to encourage international 
communications are also available. 
—Walt Noiseux 
@ 
Japan 
Visiting: Shoes should be removed before stepping from 
the enclosed porch (genkan) into a Japanese-style home. 
However, western-style buildings may be entered with 
shoes on. After removing the shoes, place them together 
pointing toward the outdoors. Slippers are usually worn 
inside Japanese-style homes and buildings but should be 
removed before one enters rooms with the immaculate 
straw mat floors (tatami). 
Japanese traditionally emphasize reserve and modesty. 
When offered something, one should express a slight 
hesitation to accept it. Guests should avoid excessive 
compliments on items of decor; otherwise the host may 
feel obligated to give the items as gifts. It is customary 
for guests to take a gift (usually fruit or cakes) to their 
host. Gifts are given and accepted with both hands and 
a slight bow. Deny all compliments graciously. 
Eating: Eating while walking on the street exhibits poor 
taste. Snack foods are sold at street stands, but people 
stay at the stand until they are finished. 
. 
. 
NOMADICS 263 
Transitions 
Abroad 
Clayton A. Hubbs, Editor 
$15/year 
(6 issues) from: 
Transitions Abroad 
P. O. Box 344 
Amherst, MA 01004 
Living in 
the U.S.A. 
Alison R. Lanier 
1981; 213 pp. 
$8.95 
($9.95 postpaid) from: 
Intercultural Press 
P. O. Box 768 
Yarmouth, ME 04096 
or Whole Earth Access 
Culturgram 
1984 edition 
$1 «25 each (postpaid); 
$5.7 5/package of 10 
from: 
Brigham Young University 
KCIS Publications 
280 HRCB 
Provo, UT 84602 
