CRAFT 
GLASS 
172 
Stained Glass 
Primer 
Peter Mollica 
(Vol. 1) 1971; 87 pp. 
$3.95 
($4.95 postpaid) 
Stained Glass 
Primer 
Peter Mollica 
(Vol. 2) 1977; 207 pp. 
$4.95 
($5.95 postpaid) 
both from: 
Mollica 
Stained Glass Press 
10033 Broadway Terrace 
Oakland, CA 94611 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Art of 
Painting on Glass 
Albinas Elskus 
1980; 147 pp. 
$12.95 
postpaid from: 
Macmillan Publishing Co. 
Order Dept. 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth Access 
The return of Halley’s Comet 
_— rofessional Stained Glass Magazine 
NE OF THE MOST magical moments I experience is what happens in taking a just-completed 
stained glass window off the workbench and holding it up to the sunlight. The window trans- 
forms before my eyes from a cold grouping of pieces of glass into an entity that is almost alive. 
There are exciting things happening in glass these days which will shatter any limiting beliefs 
you may have about this material. For clarity’s sake, glass can be broken into three main subject categories: 
cold glass (includes working with stained glass, sandblasting, etching, etc.), warm glass (includes lampwork- 
ing and techniques such as fusing, slumping, painting glass between 1100 degrees F and 1650 degrees F in a 
kiln), and hot glass (working with molten glass — employing a furnace at. temperatures usually over 2000 
degrees F). 
—David Jouris 
Stained Glass Primer 1 and 2 
Peter Mollica has put together an excellent pair of books 
on stained glass. It was from them that | learned the 
basics when | first began. Volume one teaches the fun- 
damentals of the craft by going step-by-step through the 
making of a leaded glass window, and using the copper- 
foil technique. The straightforward instructions are accom- 
panied every step of the way by helpful black-and-white 
photos. Volume two introduces more advanced techniques 
including the use of easels, painting on glass, firing in a 
kiln, and how to reinforce and install a window. An an- 
notated bibliography of books on glass completes this 
solid introduction to the craft. 
—David Jouris 
The Art of Painting on Glass 
A marvelous book on vitreous painting by a man who 
clearly loves his craft. Albinas Elskus gives a personal and 
comprehensive discourse on paints and how to mix them 
and explains the necessary tools and equipment a begin- 
ner would need. Most of the book is devoted to the tech- 
niques involved in painting on glass, including designing, 
tracing, matting, staining, enameling, etching, and firing. 
Full of wonderful photographs and drawings. 
—David Jouris 
(Below, left to right) blender’s badger hairs are pressed 
to the glass as the blending begins. 
To assure shading, the pressure on the hairs is released 
toward the edge of the glass. 
Sample of a shaded matt 
The action used 
in grozing is dif- 
ficult to describe, 
but it is closest to 
chewing at the side 
of your mouth with 
your back teeth. 
. 
.. Using the edge 
of the jaws, grasp 
firmly the chip of 
glass to be grozed 
away and turning 
your wrist outward 
as you close the 
jaws ‘‘chew’’ or 
“groze’’ away the 
unwanted chip. 
Glassworking Periodicals 
Professional Stained Glass 
Features articles on stained glass technique, equipment 
evaluations, and designing. The December issue is de- 
voted to a nationwide listing of suppliers in all areas 
of glass work. 
—David Jouris 
Professional Stained Glass: Albert Lewis, Editor. $15/year 
(10 issues) from 270 Lafayette Street, Room 701, New 
York, NY 10012. 
Designer Lawrence Korgan and artist John Forbes created 
The Return of Halley’s Comet [above], a panorama of 
glass twenty feet in length. The work consists of four art 
glass window panels, each five feet wide by seven feet tall. 
SSL 
LE EPS ES ES PS STE EST LEE ESET 
NT NT 
IR, 
¢ A fat, fascinating catalog of glassworking supplies and 
tools can be had free from Whittemore-Durgin Glass Co., 
P. O. Box 2065, Hanover, MA 02339. 
° Craft researcher and reviewer David Jouris runs his own 
postcard, photography, and graphics business and is a self- 
described dabbler in anything involving the use of the hands. 
Also see his craft page in the ‘‘Livelihood”’ section (p. 198). 
