HEALTH 
210 
ce 
The New Our 
Bodies, Ourselves 
The Boston Women’s 
Health Book Collective 
1984; 647 pp. 
$1 4.95 postpaid from: 
Simon & Schuster 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
or Whole Earth Access 
My Body, 
My Health 
Felicia Stewart, M.D., 
Felicia Guest, 
Gary Stewart, M.D., 
Robert Hatcher, M.D. 
1981; 564 pp. 
$11.95 
($13.45 postpaid) from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, IL 60016 
or Whole Earth Access 
Menopause, 
Naturally 
Sadja Greenwood, M.D. 
1984; 201 pp. 
$10 
($11.25 postpaid) from: 
Volcano Press 
330 Ellis Street, Dept. W 
San Francisco, CA 94102 
or Whole Earth Access 
WOMEN’S HEALTH 
The New Our Bodies, Ourselves 
Breathe deeply of this wonderful book. It expands our 
notions of what it means to be women and stay healthy 
in our minds, our relationships, our workplaces, and 
our bodies. Like a perceptive friend, it nurtures and 
challenges us to take control of our own well-being. 
The New Our Bodies, Ourselves is itself a model of 
health; it has the strength of its original convictions and 
the flexibility to adapt to changes that bear on those con- 
victions. This 1984 edition is two-thirds revised with new 
chapters on alternative medical care, alcohol and drugs, 
environmental and occupational health, and new repro- 
ductive technologies. | hope this rare book continues to 
adapt and expand for at least a few more decades. 
A Spanish language edition is available directly from the 
Boston Women’s Health Book Collective. 
—Jeanne Carstensen 
[Suggested by Tom Ferguson, M.D.] 
Nuestros Cuerpos, Nuestras Vidas: (Our Bodies, 
Ourselves) 1979; 383 pp. $5.00 ($6 postpaid) from The 
Boston Women’s Health Book Collective, Spanish Edition, 
P. O. Box 192, West Somerville, MA 02144. 
6 
In expanding the concept of prevention even further, we 
risk defining more and more aspects of life in terms of 
health and illness — that is, according to a medical mo- 
del. We may end up seeing exercise, eating, meditation, 
fallopian tubes (chlamydial PID) 
cervix 
(chlamydia) 
u terus 
(chlamydial PID 
urethra 
rectum 
CHLAMYDIA AND UREAPLASMA 
Chlamydia can also be transmitted to the eyes via the 
hands. 
fresh air, dance, for example — all pleasures in their own 
right — simply as measures of our potential health or 
nonhealth. In this way, ironically, we further medicalize 
our lives. 
e 
Chlamydia 
Until recently, the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis was 
thought to affect only men, causing half of the cases of 
male nongonococcal urethritis (NGU), while women 
were silent ‘‘carriers.’’ Now we know that chlamydia can 
cause very serious problems for women, including ure- 
thral infection, cervicitis (inflammation of the cervix), PID 
and infertility as well as dangerous complications during 
pregnancy and birth. 
My Body, My Health 
Written by several people long-respected in gynecology 
and family planning circles, its concise yet surprisingly 
thorough chapters cover the gamut of women’s most 
frequently encountered health concerns: pregnancy, birth 
control, abortion, surviving a pelvic exam, common 
infections, menstrual problems, abnormal pap smears, 
breast self-exam, breast lumps, cancer, sexual problems, 
menopause, surgery, etc. 
The sections on teenage sexuality, vaginal hygiene, 
recognition of early signs of pregnancy, facing surgery, 
and special help in choosing a method of birth control 
are sensitively written and cover topics not easily 
found elsewhere. 
This is a fine piece of work — our first lay gynecology 
textbook. I‘d like to see a copy in every library, every 
women’s clinic, and every gynecologist’s waiting room. 
—Carol Berry, R.N., N.P. 
[Suggested by Tom Ferguson, M.D.] 
This more medically detailed guide belongs on the shelf 
next to The New Our Bodies, Our Selves. Look for a com- 
pletely revised edition in 1987, probably from Bantam. 
—Jeanne Carstensen 
I’ve examined my breasts each and every month for at 
least ten years, and | still have to make myself do it 
every time! | always do it in the morning of a weekday; 
so | know | can call my doctor immediately if | find 
anything. | don’t think | could do it at night. 
—Woman, 33 
Use the flat part of your fingertips to feel each area of the 
breast. Repeat your exam in a standing or sitting position. 
Menopause, Naturally 
A guide for women entering the frightening territory of 
their 40s and 50s. This new phase of life inevitably brings 
up deep feelings — mostly negative. Most younger women 
believe that menopause means depression, irritability, 
unhappiness, and sexual decline. Greenwood gently 
explains that it means none of these things. She puts a 
sisterly arm around the worried reader and tells her the 
facts: hot flashes — a mildly uncomfortable sign of hor- 
monal changes, something like a midlife case of pimples; 
emotional upsets — no more common than in younger 
women; the end of sex — no way! 
She goes on to explain in appropriate detail the two 
primary medical concerns of most midlife women — 
preventing osteoporosis and considering estrogen 
replacement therapy. 
Like most women, | spent the first half of my life responding 
to the needs of others. One of the good things about the 
period ahead is that the world now makes fewer demands 
on me, leaving me free to pursue my own agenda, to find 
out who | really am. Greenwood’s warm, sensible guide 
makes this seem an exciting challenge indeed. 
—Neshama Franklin 
@ 
In Western culture, with its strong emphasis on female 
youth and beauty, the menopause is seen as a time of 
decline and loss of status for women. 
. 
. 
. Among many 
non-Western groups, the older woman enjoys increased 
status in the family and greater freedom in society at 
large. Menopause and the cessation of childbearing 
become positive events in a woman’s life, and physical 
symptoms are given less attention. 
IE 
TL EES LL BEE LPT TS 
IDF SII IL SNL IIS EE I TTT SIS 
* Menopause Naturally author Sadja Greenwood, M.D., 
updates her book in this annual newsletter. 
PMZ Newsletter: Sadja Greenwood, Editor. Free with SASE 
from Volcano Press, 330-WEC Ellis Street, San Francisco, 
CA 94102. 
