COMMUNITY 
108 
Remarkably curious, intel- 
ligent, sensitive and gentle 
— both to humans and to 
one another, rodents feel 
as much pain and fear as 
any dog or gulinea pig. 
Their friends are few 
however, and no laws pro- 
tect them from abuse. 
—PETA 
Animal Liberation 
Peter Singer 
1975; 297 pp. 
$4.95 
($5.95 postpaid) from: 
Avon Books 
P. O. Box 767 
Dresden, TN 38225 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Animals’ 
Agenda 
Jim Mason, Editor 
$18/year 
(10 issues) from: 
Animals’ Agenda 
P. O. Box 5234 
Westport, CT 06881 
Faroese men load headless 
pilot whales onto truck for 
distribution around the 
islands. Sea Shepherd Con- 
servation Society is working 
to prevent such slaughter. 
ANIMAL RIGHTS 
UR GROWING UNDERSTANDING of evolution has eroded much of the artificial separation 
between “human” and “animal,” making it increasingly difficult to ignore the suffering of non- 
humans bent to human purpose in agribusiness ‘“‘animal factories” and biomedical research 
labs. Today the moral philosophers of our nation’s universities regularly debate the animal rights 
question in an abundance of books and journals devoted to the topic, while less patient activists break into 
animal experimentation labs to free the victims and publicize their abusive treatment. 
Opinions may vary on where to draw the line in considering the needs and rights of nonhuman animals, 
but the growing number of animal rights activists agree that we must extend some degree of compassion 
to our fellow inhabitants of planet Earth. 
—Ted Schultz 
Animal Liberation 
This powerful and meticulously reasoned book is credited 
with sparking the recent animal rights movement in Amer- 
ica. Not simply a documentation of ill treatment, it is also 
a skillfully presented case for animal protection. 
All of the chemical products we use, from cosmetics to 
oven cleaner, are tested on living animals. Death for 
these animals comes after days, weeks, or even months 
of pain. Factory farms are equally bad; millions of calves, 
chickens, and other animals spend their lives in tiny cages 
just larger than their bodies. The factory farms and lab- 
oratory horrors Singer exposed ten years ago remain 
prevalent. 
Copies of Animal Liberation are being left inside labor- 
atories — not on the bookshelves, but in empty cages, 
replacing animals liberated by raiders in the night. 
—Bradley Miller 
The core of this book is the claim that to discriminate 
against beings solely on account of their species is a 
form of prejudice, immoral and indefensible in the same 
way that discrimination on the basis of race is immoral 
and indefensible. 
. 
. 
. 
The Animals’ Agenda 
The Animals’ Agenda is a must for anyone interested in 
keeping up to date on animal rights. Independent of any 
particular animal organization, the magazine freely ex- 
plores the issues and controversies behind the headlines, 
and offers a unique and open forum for participation to 
all parties concerned. 
—Bradley Miller 
Karen, 38, a health care worker in a large eastern city, 
is one of the members of the Animal Liberation Front 
who broke into the Head Injury Clinical Research Center 
at the University of Pennsylvania in May 1984. In the 
most widely-publicized break-in of its kind, the ALF stole 
more than 60 hours of videotapes of experiments and 
initiated an exhaustive campaign that led ultimately 
to the Center’s closing. 
Here’s where the action is: 
People for the Ethical Treatment 
of Animals (PETA): 
The vanguard of the animal rights movement. These gutsy 
and articulate activists have made the name PETA synon- 
ymous with “landmark victory.’’ In five short years this 
group has developed a track record which puts most 
older and wealthier organizations to shame. Saving lab- 
oratory animals has been their focus. PETA is directly 
responsible for halting numerous government-funded 
animal experiments. 
—Bradley Miller 
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals: membership 
$20 (includes quarterly newsletter; information free from 
PETA, P. O. Box 42516, Washington, DC 20015. 
Humane Farming Association (HFA) 
Expanding the boundaries of animal protection, HFA is 
spearheading a campaign against the intense confine- 
ment and brutal treatment of farm animals. 
—Bradley Miller 
Humane Farming Association: membership $10 (includes 
quarterly newsletter); information free from 1550 California 
Street/Suite 6, San Francisco, CA 94109. 
The Fund for Animals 
If someone is threatening to make dog food out of wild 
horses in Nevada . 
. 
. call the Fund for Animals. 
—Bradley Miller 
The Fund for Animals: membership $15 (includes quarterly 
newsletter); information free from 200 West 57th Street, 
New York, NY 10019. 
International Primate 
Protection League (IPPL) 
The murder of IPPL advisor Diane Fossey is but one tragic 
example of the risks primate protectors face. Harassed by 
lawsuits from chimpanzee dealers and threats of violence 
from black market smugglers, IPPL continues its valiant 
struggle to protect the Earth’s primate species. They also 
run a sanctuary for primates rescued from abusive 
institutions. 
—Bradley Miller 
International Primate Protection League: membership $10 
(includes quarterly newsletter); information free from IPPL, 
P. O. Box 766, Summerville, SC 29484. 
Buddhists Concerned for Animals 
If you hang around Buddhists all day, by and by you 
hear yourself making an interesting pair of statements: 
’ 
“Sentient beings are numberless. ’ 
“| vow to save them.’’ 
—Stewart Brand 
Buddhists Concerned for Animals: membership $10 (includes 
quarterly newsletter); information free from 300 Page 
Street, San Francisco, CA 94102. 
