Good News Bible 
The Bible doesn’t say what you think it says no matter 
what you think. It’s older, stranger, and longer than will fit 
into anyone’s second hand summaries — and that’s all 
most of us have of it since most editions preserve 16th 
century book design as well as language and are very 
hard for modern eyes to read. 
This edition of the Bible is actually easy to read so you 
can get right to the strangeness of the stories. The things it 
has that most Bibles don’t have are a clear typeface, 
well-placed white space, lots of headings to tell you when 
a new story starts, lots of pictures integrated into the text, 
readable maps, and an easy-to-use index (done by page 
number, not chapter and verse). 
The translation itself is clear conversational English. It was 
originally done by the American Bible Society for people 
in other countries who speak English as a second language. 
If you’ve ever tried to read the Bible cover to cover, be 
advised it’s a bad idea. The Bible was written by a lot of 
different people at a lot of different times, so it should be 
read more like a magazine than a book. Flip around, see 
what looks interesting, skip the boring parts. The in- 
dividual stories are tightly written and short so it really 
isn’t a big deal to read any one of them. And the way the 
Good News Bible is set up makes it easy to tell where one 
story stops and another begins. (Some good easy short 
stories to start on are Ruth, Esther, and Jonah.) 
—Anne Herbert 
LEARNING 
() 
eee n 
Good News Bible 
American Bible Society 
1976; 408 pp. 
$2 postpaid from: 
American Bible Society 
P. O. Box 5656 
Grand Central Station 
New York, NY 10164 
Elijah and Elisha stopped by the river, and the fifty 
prophets stood a short distance away. Then Elijah took 
off his cloak, rolled it up, and struck the water with it; 
the water divided, and he and Elisha crossed to the 
other side on dry ground. There, Elijah said to Elisha, 
“Tell me what you want me to do for you before | am 
taken away.”’ 
“lam the Lord, 
“Let me receive the share of your power that will make 
me your successor,’’ Elisha answered. 
“That is a difficult request to grant,’’ Elijah replied. ‘But 
you will receive it if you see me as | am being taken away 
from you; if you don’t see me, you won't receive it.’’ 
They kept talking as they walked on; then suddenly a 
chariot of fire pulled by horses of fire came between 
them, and Elijah was taken up to heaven by a whirlwind. 
Elisha saw it and cried out to Elijah, ‘My father, my 
father! Mighty defender of Israel! You are gone!’’ And 
he never saw Elijah again. 
Mere Christianity 
Read this book for an idea of the intellectual arguments in 
favor of Christianity. What began as an informal radio 
talk 40 years ago has become a perennial best seller (2 
million copies) that imaginatively puts forth the gist of 
Christianity with common sense reasoning. It’s written for 
the modern skeptic by the Cambridge don of Middle 
English who also wrote the classic Chronicles of Narnia, 
a sophisticated children’s fairy tale. In presenting the 
case for Christianity, C. S. Lewis avoids religious jar- 
gon. He deserves sainthood for that. 
—Kevin Kelly 
Christianity asserts that every individual human being 
is 
going to live for ever, and this must be either true or 
false. Now there are a good many things which would 
not be worth bothering about if | were going to live only 
seventy years, but which | had better bother about very 
seriously if | am going to live for ever. Perhaps my bad 
temper or my jealousy are gradually getting worse — so 
gradually that the increase in seventy years will not be 
very noticeable. But it might be absolute hell in a million 
years: in fact, if Christianity is true, Hell is the precisely 
correct technical term for what it would be. 
The Living Testament 
Christianity as we know it is much more than just the Bible 
and millions of believers. It is also the product of several 
dozen key theologians, saints, and renegades who exerted 
unusual influence on both their own and subsequent 
generations. The Living Testament gathers together the 
writings of many of these church leaders, such as St. 
Jerome, St. Bernard, St. Augustine, Martin Luther, John 
Wesley, Mother Teresa, and even Billy Graham in one big 
compendium. John Bunyan’s Pilgrim's Progress is here as 
is Jonathan Edwards’ seminal Sinners in the Hands of an 
Angry God. There’s plenty in this book to both inspire and 
horrify anyone. 
—Jay Kinney 
e 
St. Francis of Assisi: from The Canticle of the Sun 
1 Most high, most great and good Lord, to You belong 
praises, glory and every blessing; to You alone do they 
belong, most high, and no one is worthy to name You. 
2 Bless You, my Lord, for the gift of all Your creatures 
and especially for our brother sun, by whom the day is 
enlightened. He is radiant and bright, of great splen- 
dour, bearing witness to You, O my God. 
3 Bless You, Lord, for our sister the moon and the stars; 
you have formed them in the heavens, fair and clear. 
Sojourners 
One of the surprises about the peace movement of the 
“80s has been the presence (and central organizing 
significance) of evangelical Christians — a category 
usually pigeonholed as diehard conservative. One of the 
most influential such groups has been the Sojourners 
Fellowship, a Washington, D.C., religious community 
which is active in peace actions and publishes Sojourners 
magazine monthly. This is a handsome, intelligent journal 
whose coverage extends from the sanctuary movement to 
Christian feminism to South Africa. Sojourners is decided- 
ly ecumenical, drawing upon a multi-denominational 
pool of contributors, including Catholic priest Henri 
Nouwen, writer Gary Wills, and even economist Gar 
Alperovitz. This is a vital representation of Christianity ac- 
tive in the ‘‘real world.” 
—Jay Kinney 
“The Way of the Cross,’’ a 320-kilometer pilgrimage in 
Nicaragua that traveled for two weeks, marching for peace. 
397 
and | do not change." 
(3.6) 
pe 
Mere Christianity 
C. S. Lewis 
1952; 175 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Macmillan Publishing Co. 
Order Department 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Living 
Testament 
M. Basil Pennington, 
Alan Jones and 
Mark Booth 
1985; 382 pp. 
$14.95 
($16.45 postpaid) from: 
Harper and Row 
2350 Virginia Avenue 
Hagerstown, MD 21740 
or Whole Earth Access 
Sojourners 
Jim Wallis, Editor 
$1 8/year 
(11 issues) from: 
Sojourners 
Subscription Manager 
P. O. Box 29272 
Washington, DC 20017 
