HOUSEHOLD 
REALTY 
140 
Finding and Buying 
Your Place 
in the Country 
Les Scher 
1974; 393 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
Macmillan Publishing co. 
How to Avoid the 
10 Biggest Home- 
Buying Traps 
A. M. Watkins 
1984; 180 pp. 
$8.95 
($10.95 postpaid) from: 
Caroline House 
5S 250 Frontenac Road 
Naperville, IL 60540 
or Whole Earth Access 
How to Inspect 
a House 
George Hoffman 
1985; 186 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
Addison-Wesley 
Publishing Co. 
1 Jacob Way 
Reading, MA 01867 
or Whole Earth Access 
Clear evidence that a good 
builder did this new develop- 
ment: the trees, a pleasantly 
curved street, and a variety 
of house designs. This is part 
of Strathmore at Stony Brook, 
New York, development by 
Levitt & Sons, Inc. 
—How fo Avoid the 10 
Biggest Home-Buying Traps 
SE 
STS I 
LR 
LE 
ISD ES TD 
I LG YS ENP TEE ER 
I SI CT ITE TI IT PIT 
TITS 
Finding and Buying Your Place 
in the Country 
I’m glad somebody wrote this book and did it so thoroughly. 
Scher is a lawyer who manages to wade with you through 
the waters of easements, zoning, taxes, contracts, deeds 
of trust, mortgages, and escrow without muddying them 
up. Also advice on evaluating property — soil, water, 
structures, and on bargaining strategies. If you study this 
book, there’s no excuse for being “‘taken.’’ 
—Richard Nilsen 
EASEMENT 
REQUIRED 
LAND FOR SALE 
“The land has frontage on county road”’ 
You will frequently see the above phrase in real estate 
advertisements. Don’t make the assumption that road 
frontage necessarily means direct road access. The side 
of the property that borders the county road might be a 
cliff or a ravine. in such cases, entrance must be gained 
by crossing a neighbor’s land. The illustration shows road 
frontage with easement access required. 
How to Avoid the 10 Biggest 
Home-Buying Traps 
Here they are folks, and history shows that people like 
yourselves blow it over and over again on these not- 
necessarily-obvious matters: the house with too high a 
price; the unforeseen expenses; the tight mortgage; the 
gyp builder; the no-design house; the garbled floor plan; 
the old-house lemon; the marginal house (where everything 
about it just gets by); the energy guzzler; the gimmick 
house. The author shows how subtle the traps can be and 
gives a great lesson in avoiding them. The book ends with 
a handy checklist, an antidote to naivete. 
—JB 
It’s also important to check on the local zoning rules, 
assuming you don’t want to see those lovely woods 
across the street invaded by bulldozers someday to 
make way for a new shopping center or chemical fac- 
tory. Your best protection is an area that is strictly 
zoned chiefly for residential use, permitting little or 
no other kind of development. If there are commercial 
and industrial zones nearby, watch out. 
There is so much marginal quality because nearly every- 
thing that goes into a house — the flooring, wall products, 
roofing, siding, heating, wiring, paint, and virtually 
every other product — can be had in more than one 
grade or in some cases more than one weight or thick- 
ness. 
. 
. 
. The lowest-grade economy materials are used 
widely in house construction to keep down costs. They 
are designed to meet certain minimum standards. 
What's more, marginal quality is not limited to low- 
priced houses. It’s also prevalent to a degree in many 
high-priced houses including luxury houses. 
How to Inspect a House 
Hopes and lies get put to the test when a prepurchase 
house inspection is performed. You can have it done for 
you, but best is to have at the task yourself; that way 
you'll learn more about the place. This manual shows you 
how to check all the things that must be right if you are to 
live without regret. Termites! Rot! There’s a lot to it, but 
there’s also a lot to a 30-year mortgage. The book is a 
handy guide to keeping an eye on the house after you 
buy it, too. 
—JB 
® 
V Cracks: While inspecting the foundation, check the 
corners, which are the weak areas. Without sufficient 
steel in the concrete, the corners could break. Steel helps 
make the foundation act as one firm unit. The illustration 
shows two cracks in a level perimeter foundation. These 
are V cracks, wider at the top than the bottom. Un- 
doubtedly the corner of the whole structure has settled. 
You might find hairline cracks anywhere. | wouldn’t 
worry about them. It’s the V cracks that give cause 
for alarm. 
Another thing to inspect, without getting on a ladder, is 
the end of downspouts. If you see a lot of mineral 
crystals, it’s a good sign that the roof is old and worn. 
V CRACK 
You can get a look at what's available in other parts of 
the country (as well as your own) in this illustrated catalog. 
Strout Realty: Catalog $2 from P. O. Box 4528, Springfield, 
MO 65808. 
¢ 
See also Right Where You Live, p. 118. 
