340 
Yamaha DX-7 
$2095 
Information free from: 
Yamaha International 
Corporation 
P. O. Box 6600 
Buena Park, CA 90622 
Casio CZ-101 
$349 
Information free from: 
EMP 
2915 South 160th Street 
New Berlin, WI 5315] 
MIDI for Musicians 
Craig Anderton 
1986; 105 pp. 
$14.95 
($16.45 postpaid) from: 
Music Sales Corp. 
Distribution Center 
P. O. Box 572 
Chester, NY 10918 
or Whole Earth Access 
Computer Music 
Journal 
Curtis Roads, Editor 
S 26/year 
(4 issues) from: 
MIT Press Journals Dept. 
28 Carleton Street 
Cambridge, MA 02142 
COMMUNICATIONS 
ELECTRONIC MUSIC 
EE 
Electronic Music 
There are two clear winners among the many, many elec- 
tronic musical instruments on the market: Casio’s CZ-101 
and Yamaha’s DX-7. If your budget allows, buy both. If 
not, buy the first one, then the other later when you can 
afford it. | recommend these partly because they are very 
capable instruments with a wide variety of sound possibil- 
ities and partly because these are the most widely pur- 
chased instruments in the market. 
Each offers customizable sound capabilities. Each lets you 
play several different sounding noises at the same time 
(polyphonic). Each has many preset sounds, so you can 
play right away without having to create your own tones. 
The differences? The more expensive DX-7 has more but- 
tons and a bigger, heftier keyboard while the CZ-10] has 
fewer control buttons and that “‘inexpensive’’ feel. Both 
create their sounds using the FM synthesis method, yet 
each has its characteristic albeit subtle color. 
Both the DX-7 and CZ-101 are tremendously popular. The 
former has single-handedly deposed the lead guitar from 
the limelight role in popular music — most serious musi- 
cians own or have access to a sturdy DX-7. The CZ-101 
offers FM synthesis for a small fraction of the DX-7’s price 
and is generally available from mass merchandisers at a 
discount or on a time-payment basis. If recommending 
the two most ubiquitous instruments seems to be super- 
ficial, let me reassure you that the reverse is true. 
Machines should be as transparent as possible. The 
machine should allow possibilities, not limit them. The 
ro re oe and fu 
ation allows 
N po 
in 
nde 
a : 
ina 
aes = 3 ps 
Rape 
al 
® WEIGHT: 3.2 kg bee Hip 
INC. oon 
LUDING nx 
RY 
Yamaha DX-7 (inset: Casio C2-101). 
best computerized machine (and you can’t walk into a 
music store any longer to play a keyboard unless it is 
connected to a computer) is that which has the most and 
the best software written for it. If you want the greatest 
flexibility, you must choose the machine which hosts the 
greatest amount of software development — the most 
popular machine. 
This monopolist philosophy makes it possible for developers 
to pour in money fo create software imitations of a grand 
piano, a bassoon, or the sound of the sea. Both of these 
keyboards let you pick and choose among the latest 
sounds of session musicians working in the big studios for 
the big record labels. Simply put, the DX-7 and CZ-101 
offer you the widest choices for synthesized music. 
—Jim Stockford 
MIDI for Musicians 
Electronic technology has recently given musicians several 
powertul tools: synthesizers, sound samplers (devices 
which store sounds as digital information), sequencers, 
and editors (devices which store sequences of sounds and 
give the musician the power to delete or add notes or 
parts, to play passages at various speeds, to change the 
order of parts, and to write compositions in step time and 
then play them back in real time. However, for many 
years each manufacturer had a different standard. A 
Yamaha sequencer, for example, might not work properly 
to sequence a part played on a Roland synthesizer. In 
order to allow various musical instruments and computers 
to work with each other regardless of the manufacturer, a 
standard format was developed called MIDI, Musical 
Instrument Digital Interface. This is a brand new 
technology (it’s only been around since 1983). It gives 
musicians tremendous power to compose and record. This 
is the book that best explains what MIDI is and does. 
—Rob Griffin 
e 
Due to the rapid rate of technological change, instruments 
often became obsolete within a few months after their 
introduction. Eventually keyboard players were almost 
afraid to buy anything because they felt that a newer, 
better version would be introduced soon. Although MIDI 
hasn’t put an end to this problem, it has certainly helped 
extend the useful life of a piece of equipment by making 
it compatible with newer devices. 
Computer Music Journal 
The international experts cover everything about com- 
puter music in this quarterly. Upcoming symposiums and 
scholarly dialogue on the latest systems and techniques. 
Good reviews of the newest products and publications. 
Sometimes includes a special soundsheet or flexi-disc with 
examples of some wonderful music. There is no more 
authoritative place to get information on the subject. 
—Tim Ennis 
| — 
= eee 
er 
ix 
| 
hig 
PAC Lis 
(15'185") 
Excerpt from the score of Cogluotobusisletmesi by Clarence Barlow. 
The robot is designed to track a human singer who sings 
into a microphone connected to the system. The robot 
plays the organ along with the human, with tempo regu- 
lated in part by the vocalist. For pitch analysis, a system 
of five narrowly tuned bandpass filters is used to derive 
a fundamental 
frequency every 
30 msec. If the 
singer is out of 
tune, the organ 
player can adjust 
the tuning of the 
organ for a more 
euphonious en- 
semble effect. 
Ironically, the 
robot musician 
cannot hear 
its own 
performance. 
