Art and Illusion 
So much art criticism is so much a vapid waste of time 
that a book like this one is thoroughly a surprise. Every 
page yields fresh information (did you know that the comic 
strip was singlehandedly invented by a Swiss gent named 
Topfler in the 1820s?) and worthwhile hypotheses about 
how art and artists gradually teach themselves energies 
of effect. 
—Stewart Brand 
Only in the realm of dreams has the artist found full 
freedom to create. | think the difference is well summed 
up in the anecdote about Matisse. When a lady visiting 
his studio said, ‘’But surely, the arm of this woman is 
much too long,”’ the artist replied politely, ‘““Madame, 
you are mistaken. This is not a woman, this is a picture. ”’ 
True, we can switch from one reading to another with 
increasing rapidity; we will also ‘“remember’’ the rabbit 
while we see the duck, but the more closely we watch 
ourselves, the more certainly we will discover that we 
cannot experience alternative readings at the same time. 
Illusion, we will find, is hard to describe or analyze, for 
though we may be intellectually aware of the fact that 
any given experience must be an illusion, we cannot, 
strictly speaking, watch ourselves having an illusion. 
The Image 
This book is by an economist enchanted with cybernetics. 
He’s after the organizing principle in life, the image that 
everything comes together through. He scarcely mentions 
the brain, and he’s right. It ain’t the brain. 
—Stewart Brand 
@ 
The meaning of a message is the change which is 
produced in the image. 
e@ 
The gene is a wonderful teacher. It is, however, a very 
poor learner. 
e@ 
| have never been to Australia. In my image of the world, 
however, it exists with 100 percent certainty. If | sailed to 
the place where the map makers tell me it is and found 
nothing there but ocean | would be the most surprised 
Number Words and Number Symbols 
Suppose you want to help human communication to re-understand 
itself. So much of that understanding is wrapped up in numbers that 
if you penetrate the one you may have a foothold to tweak the other 
4H 
the quien. te 
one onto a new course. Invent language and you invent humans. 
adres 
This book penetrates numbers. 
< 
The Mayan ‘‘named” place- 
value notation. The heads are 
rank levels which are num- 
bered by units from 1 to 19. The 
vertical beams are 5-groups; 
curiously enough, there was 
no decimal grouping. 
AIA 
p95” 14-9 6 
dated in successive years. 
—Steward Brand 
5 op 
HES 
g1° ¥5 
Albrecht Durer’s year dates. In writing the dates of the 
years around 1495, Durer illustrated the development of 
the 4 into its present form. From three of his drawings 
But no tradition of art had a deeper understanding of 
what | have called the “‘screen’’ than the art of the Far 
East. Chinese art theory discusses the power of express- 
ing through absence of brush and ink. ‘Figures, even 
though painted without eyes, must seem to look; without 
ears, must seem to listen . 
. 
. There are things which ten 
hundred brushstrokes cannot depict but which can be 
captured by a few simple strokes if they are right. That is 
truly giving expression to the invisible.’’ The maxim into 
which these observations were condensed might serve as 
a motto in this chapter: “i tao pi pu tao — idea present, 
brush may be spared performance.” 
man in the world. | hold to this part of my image with 
certainty, however, purely on authority. | have been to 
many other places which | have found on the map and | 
have almost always found them there. It is interesting to 
inquire what gives the map this extraordinary authority, 
an authority greater than that of the sacred books of all 
religions. It is not an authority which is derived from any 
political power or from any charismatic experience. As 
far as | know it is not a crime against the state nor 
against religion to show a map that has mistakes in it. 
There is, however, a process of feedback from the users 
of the maps to the map maker. 
A guess may be hazarded that one of the important 
conditions for the initiation of technological change 
is the development of rather isolated and perhaps some- 
what persecuted subcultures within the larger society. It 
is in the ‘‘nonconformist’’ subcultures that images are 
most likely to be sensitive and subject to change. 
The chimpu of 
4Sh the Peruvian and 
Bolivian Indians, 
a descendant of 
6U 
co 
“| box 320 yen’: 
a pricetag (for 
Mandarin oranges) 
from a fruit store. 
100 
Old Chinese 
numerals for 
10, 50, and 100. 
, COMMUNICATIONS 
SYMBOLS 297 
Art and Illusion 
Ernst H. Gombrich 
1961; 466 pp. 
$14.50 
postpaid from: 
Princeton University Press 
3175 Princeton Pike 
Lawrenceville, NJ 08648 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Image 
Kenneth E. Boulding 
1956; 175 pp. 
$6.95 
($8.45 postpaid) from: 
University of 
Michigan Press 
839 Greene Street 
Ann Arbor, MI 48106 
or Whole Earth Access 
Number Words 
and Number 
Symbols 
Karl Menninger 
OUT OF PRINT 
The M.L.T. Press 
