16 
The Structures of 
Everyday Life 
Volume 1 
1981; 623 pp. 
The Wheels 
of Commerce 
Volume 2 
1982; 670 pp. 
The Perspective 
of the World 
Volume 3 
1984; 699 pp. 
All by Fernand Braudel 
$16.95 each volume 
($18.45 postpaid) 
All from: 
Harper and Row 
2350 Virginia Avenue 
Hagerstown, MD 21740 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Shorter 
Science and 
Civilisation 
in China 
Joseph Needham and 
Colin A. Ronan 
1978; 326 pp. 
Vol. 1 
$18.95 
($19.95 postpaid) 
Volume 2 
$42.50 
($46.50 postpaid) 
Both from: 
Cambridge University Press 
510 North Avenue 
New Rochelle, NY 10801 
or Whole Earth Access 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
CIVILIZATION 
Technics and Civilization 
| first read this book in 1957, and twice since then. 
Here are the first lines of the book. 
During the last thousand years the material basis 
and the cultural forms of Western Civilization have 
been profoundly modified by the development of 
the machine. How did this come about? Where 
did it take place? 
Lewis Mumford is an unusual man. He is not an engineer 
or a scientist, he isn’t an historian or sociologist, you can’t 
identify him as a business man or a literary man or an 
academic. He seems beyond all those roles. This made 
him especially attractive to me when I was 19 because his 
style smelled of the place | wanted to go. He is profound, 
poetic, knowledgeable. He takes care of the large and 
small things in his books. 
Technics and Civilization is a good book fo start with; if 
you like it, there are many others of his to turn to, Myth of 
the Machine, Arts and Technics, The City in History, 
Transformation of Man, The Pentagon of Power, etc. 
How | have used him; all through my twenties | used him 
as my guide. 
—Steve Baer 
Most of the important inventions and discoveries that 
served as the nucleus for further mechanical develop- 
ment did not arise, as Spengler would have it, out of 
some mystical inner drive of 
the Faustian soul: they were 
wind-blown seeds from other cultures. . 
. 
. Taking root in 
Modern cotton spinning. During the paleotechnic period 
the textile industries were the pattern for advanced pro- 
duction, and the term factory was at first applied solely to 
textile factories. Today the worker has a smaller part than 
ever to play in them: he lingers on as a machine-herd. 
medieval culture, in a different climate and soil, these 
seeds of the machine sported and took on new forms: 
perhaps, precisely because they had not originated in 
Western Europe and had no natural enemies there, they 
grew as rapidly and gigantically as the Canada thistle 
when it made its way onto the South American pampas. 
Technics and 
Civilization 
Lewis Mumford 
1934; 1963; 495 pp. 
$8.95 
($9.95 postpaid) from: 
Harcourt Brace Jovanovitch 
1250 6th Ave., 4th Floor 
San Diego, CA 92101 
or Whole Earth Access 
Civilization and Capitalism 
The first book in this three volume set, The Structures of 
Everyday Life, is divided into sections: rice, corn, beer, 
furniture, alcohol, iron and many many others. | found 
that | paid close attention to Braudel; most history books 
make my mind wander. He turns the usual history upside 
down — many details of everyday life but perhaps no 
mention of the King. All his discussions are filled with 
quotes from first hand. 
There are no chapters of theories concerning why this or 
that happened. Instead piece by piece you hear about 
furniture in China and Europe, alcohol in France, 
England and America. The details pour out of the book. 
One of the nicest qualities of the book is that it can be 
opened anywhere and read for 20 minutes. Braudel has 
enough respect for life and the past to be immensely 
puzzled by it — so he never imposes some kind of false 
structure that you have to pay attention to. 
—Steve Baer 
Braudel’s cleverness is to pay attention to the ‘‘weight of 
numbers”’ in history: the price of eggs, the amount of 
wine a family consumed, the number of times goods 
changed hands during trade. The measurements add up 
to understanding. These observations are explored in full 
by the further two volumes, The Wheels of Commerce 
and The Perspective of the World. You won’t find the 
breadth of civilization fit into a smaller bundle. 
—Kevin Kelly 
Science and Civilisation in China 
Joseph Needham is a renowned biologist who travelled 
into unexplored regions of Chinese technological history 
and became a yet more renowned historian and interpreter 
of what is for most of us the back of the planet. His series 
is awesome in size and depth; he’s done the mining, but 
you 
ve got to refine the ore to suit your own purposes. 
One purpose might be learning about Taoism and how its 
influence helped the Chinese discover and utilize some 
technology long before the West and also overlook or 
never utilize other stuff that the West seized on. Another 
purpose might be taking some of the mechanical inventions 
of old China — from man-kites to waterwheels — and 
applying them to your own hand technology of intention- 
al communities. There’s no source like the source in 
these matters. If you’re timid, you should try The Shorter 
Science and Civilisation in China in two abridged 
volumes. Or you could blow $1,100, get all nine full 
volumes, and then wait anxiously for the next one to 
rumble down the chute from Cambridge. 
Awesome books. 
—Stewart Brand 
Segregation Table of the symbols of the Book of Changes 
--.. Yin and Yang separate, but each contains half of 
its opposite in a ‘recessive’ state, as is seen when the 
second division occurs. There is no logical end to the 
process but here it is not followed beyond the stage of 
the 64 hexagrams. 
