DRUGS: PHARMACY 
The People’s Pharmacy « The Essential Guide to Prescription Drugs 
The Graedons’ three volumes are the books on drugs for 
the general reader. Written by a pharmacologist who 
knows his stuff and shoots from the hip, The People’s Phar- 
macy series helped create the current medical consumer 
revolution and remains the most personable and readable 
assemblage of self-care information, opinions, and 
recommendations on prescription and SACS counter 
drugs currently available. 
But while the Graedons provide an excellent overview 
and hit all the high points, they do not deal with every 
detail of every drug. You may want a drug encyclopedia 
as a backup. My favorite is The Essential Guide to Pre- 
scription Drugs, one of the most detailed and easily the 
most usable of the breed. It contains in-depth listings of 
the 200+ most frequently prescribed drugs, complete 
with mode of action, side effects, contraindications, time 
required for benefit, recommended follow-up exams, in- 
teractions with other drugs, and — especially hard to find 
— use during pregnancy and breastfeeding. No opinions 
or recommendations here, just the facts. 
—Ilom Ferguson, M.D. 
Most people think that FDA approval is drugdom’s ver- 
sion of the Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval. But it 
isn’t that simple. 
Let’s suppose, for a moment, that the Consumer Product 
Safety Commission tested one thousand toasters of a cer- 
tain manufacturer. While nine hundred of them worked 
fine, the other one hundred caused a variety of problems 
ranging from minor cases of burned toast to life-threat- 
CODEINE 
Common Synonyms (“Street Names”): 
schoolboy, syrup 
Drug Class: 
Analgesic, Mild (Narcotic) 
Prescription Required: 
Yes (Controlled Drug, U.S. Schedule II)* 
Available for Purchase by Generic Name: 
Yes 
Available Dosage Forms and Strengths 
Tablets — 15 mg., 30 mg., 60 mg. 
Syrup — 10 mg. per ml. 
Injection — 15 mg., 30 mg., 60 mg. per ml. 
Tablet May Be Crushed or Capsule Opened for Administration: 
Yes 
How This Drug Works 
Intended Therapeutic Effect(s) 
Relief of moderate pain. 
Control of coughing. 
Location of Drug Action(s) 
Those areas of the brain and spinal cord involved in the perception of pain. 
Those areas of the brain and spinal cord involved in the cough reflex. 
INFORM YOUR PHYSICIAN BEFORE TAKING THIS DRUG IF 
—you are taking sedatives, other analgesics, sleep-inducing drugs, tranquilizers, 
antidepressants, or narcotic drugs of any kind. 
—you have impaired liver or kidney function. 
—you have underactive thyroid function. 
—you plan to have surgery under general anesthesia in the near future. 
Time Required for Apparent Benefit 
Usually 15 to 30 minutes when taken orally. 
Possible Side-Effects (natural, expected, and unavoidable drug actions) 
Drowsiness, lightheadedness, constipation. 
Possible Adverse Effects (unusual, unexpected, and infrequent reactions) 
IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING DEVELOP, DISCONTINUE DRUG AND NOTIFY 
YOUR PHYSICIAN AS SOON AS POSSIBLE 
LE 
I IE TI BEI BEE I EE SES EIT 
° There’s an equally good Essential Guide to Nonprescription 
Drugs too. Watch for the new edition in 1987. 
The Essential Guide to Nonprescription Drugs: David R. 
Zimmerman, 1987; 886 pp. $27.50 hardcover, $12.95 paper- 
back from Harper and Row, 2350 Virginia Avenue, Hagers- 
town, MD 21740. 
Painkiller, 
pain 
reliever, 
robo, 
ening electrical shocks. There would be righteous indig- 
nation and no Seal of Approval for such a bread burner. 
Yet drugs are often approved with a 10 percent incidence 
of adverse effects, and in some cases the numbers go 
much higher. Even death (which we can think of as the 
ultimate adverse effect) is a risk that the FDA considers 
acceptable for a surprisingly large number of drugs. 
—The People’s Pharmacy 
Minoxidil, a potent vasodilator used orally in the treatment 
of hypertension, appears to have ‘dramatic’ hair-growing 
properties when applied topically to some patients with 
male pattern baldness or alopecia areata, Dr. Vera Price 
said at the annual meeting of the American Academy 
of Dermatology. 
Although the search for a treatment of male pattern 
baldness has been rivaled in duration and intensity only 
by that for the Holy Grail, Dr. Price strongly urged physi- 
cians to refrain from the temptation of using minoxidil on 
their bald patients until after Upjohn’s controlled clinical 
trials are completed within the next year. . 
. 
. 
Not waiting for FDA approval is Cambridge Chemists, 
a drugstore on New York City’s East Side. Pharmacists 
there make a liquid version of minoxidil for patients of 
about 20 area physicians, including Dr. Reed. The phar- 
macy crushes prescription tablets of Loniten (the form 
in which Upjohn sells the drug for severe high blood 
pressure), mixes them with an alcohol-based solution 
and sells them a one-month supply of two ounces for 
about $75. 
—The New People’s Pharmacy 
Mild Adverse Effects 
Allergic Reactions: 
Other Reactions 
Skin rashes, hives, itching. 
Nausea, vomiting. 
Dizziness. sensation of drunkenness. 
Serious Adverse Effects 
None reported. 
Advisability of Use During Pregnancy 
Pregnancy Category: C (tentative). See Pregnancy Code inside back cover. 
Animal reproduction studies in hamsters reveal significant birth defects 
due to this drug. 
Information from studies in pregnant women indicates no significant in- 
crease in defects in 2522 exposures to this drug. 
It is advisable to avoid use of this drug during first 3 months. 
Ask physician for guidance. 
Habit-Forming Potential 
This drug can produce psychological and physical dependence (see Glossary) 
when used in large doses for an extended period of time. 
Effects of Overdosage 
With Moderate Overdose: 
ness, agitation. 
With Large Overdose: 
Stupor progressing to deep sleep, convulsions, cold 
and clammy skin, slow and shallow breathing. 
Marked drowsiness, nausea, vomiting, restless- 
Possible Effects of Extended Use 
Psychological and physical dependence. 
While Taking This Drug, Observe the Following 
Foods: 
No restrictions. 
Beverages: 
No restrictions. 
Alcohol: 
Use with extreme caution until combined effects have been deter- 
mined. Codeine can intensify the intoxicating effects of alcohol, and alcohol 
can intensify the depressant effects of codeine on brain function, breathing, 
and circulation. 
Tobacco Smoking: 
No interactions expected. 
Marijuana Smoking 
Occasional (once or twice weekly): 
ness and relief of pain. 
Daily: 
Significant increase in drowsiness, relief of pain, and impairment 
of mental and physical performance. 
Other Drugs 
Codeine may increase the effects of 
eall sedatives, analgesics, sleep-inducing drugs, tranquilizers, antidepres- 
sants, and other narcotic drugs. 
Driving a Vehicle, Operating Machinery, Engaging in Hazardous Activities: 
This drug can impair mental alertness, judgment, reaction time, and physi- 
cal coordination. Avoid hazardous activities. 
Aviation Note: 
The use of this drug is a disqualification for the piloting of 
aircraft. Consultation with a designated Aviation Medical Examiner is ad- 
vised. 
Mild and transient increase in drowsi- 
—The Essential Guide to Prescription Drugs 
HEALTH 221 
The Essential 
Guide to 
Prescription Drugs 
James W. Long, M.D. 
1985; 1,025 pp. 
$10.95 
($12.45 postpaid) from: 
Harper and Row 
2350 Virginia Avenue 
Hagerstown, MD 21740 
or Whole Earth Access 
The People’s 
Pharmacy #1 
Joe and Teresa Graedon 
1985; 386 pp. 
$16.95 
($18.45 postpaid) from: 
St. Martin’s Press 
Cash Sales 
175 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10010 
or Whole Earth Access 
The People’s 
Pharmacy #2 
Joe Graedon 
1980; 000 pp. 
$5.95 
($6.95 postpaid) from: 
Avon Books 
P.O. Box 767 
Dresden, TN 38225 
The New People’s 
Pharmacy #3 
Joe and Teresa Graedon 
1985; 427 pp. 
$8.95 
($10.45 postpaid) from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, IL 60016 
