Cytoplasmic 
3 
Abnormal 
droplets 
Shapeless 
Large 
Small 
Tapered 
Double Immature Coiled 
Double 
Normal midpiece 
head 
head 
head 
head 
heads 
form 
tail 
tail 
You Can Have a Baby 
With an estimated one out of ten Americans suffering 
from infertility, chances are you know someone trying to 
get pregnant and failing month by month. Give them You 
Can Have a Baby and they might name the kid after you! 
A great source of basic information about what infertility 
is and how to overcome it. In a factual, not frightening, 
way, it tells you when to seek medical help and what to 
expect at the office of your local infertility specialist. 
Surprisingly, a lot of infertility is caused by popular mis- 
conceptions about the best way to get pregnant. If this is 
your problem, the facts in this book will set you straight 
and let mother nature get back on course. If your problem 
is more serious, there are clear explanations to prepare 
you for different medical tests and treatments. As a com- 
plete guide, this book will be especially valuable to couples 
who are just starting to realize they need help conceiving. 
—Janna Katz 
Fifty percent of the time the problem is the male’s. This 
covers male infertility nicely. 
—Kevin Kelly 
Women who smoke have a 25 percent greater chance of 
aborting than nonsmokers. Chronic smoke inhalation 
prevents oxygen from getting from the lungs through the 
blood and to the baby. As a result, the fetus is deprived 
of oxygen during its critical growth phase. 
e 
The length of time a woman stays on the pill doesn’t 
seem to affect the recovery of the hormonal axis. But 
erratic use does. A woman can take the pill indefinitely 
with little risk to her fertility if she uses it consistently, 
stopping only when she wants to get pregnant. When a 
woman initially takes the pill, the brain control center is 
shocked. Stopping and starting the pill repeatedly jerks 
the system on and off, until it loses its buoyancy. After 
such a series of shocks, treatment with fertility drugs can 
usually help the ovulatory system start up again. 
New Conceptions 
Making babies by any method other than the usual way 
is the immense subject of this book. It is not surprising that 
when procreation is moved from the bedroom to the | 
bench, confusion is born. This author does an admirable 
job in weaning the confusion away from the tools so you 
can decide if you want to use them. | came away from 
her compassionate reporting with the distinct sense that 
new-fangled conceptions are a long lever bending our 
culture profoundly. 
—Kevin Kelly 
Other women enter into surrogate arrangements because 
they enjoy being pregnant. ‘’Many say they would like to 
be pregnant their whole lives,’’ states Parker. ‘They just 
don’t want to rear children their whole lives.’’ For example, 
nineteen-year-old Corinne Appleyard, who served as a 
surrogate for George and Sheila Syrowski, claims that 
she feels more energy when she’s pregnant. Surrogate 
Elizabeth Kane once remarked, ‘’| have babies so easily. 
They just pop out.”’ 
For the woman who can provide the uterus for a child 
but not the egg, one answer in the future will be an egg 
donation. Already the use of the procedure is being ex- 
plored by scientists in Italy. They call it TDO, the transfer 
of donor oocytes (eggs). Through a laparoscopy they ex- 
tract an egg from the ovary of a woman donor. They use 
another laparoscopy to place the donated egg in the 
lower part of the fallopian tube of the recipient. The 
woman who receives the egg can then have sex with her 
husband or be artificially inseminated with his sperm in 
the hope that the sperm will fertilize the egg in her body 
and the pregnancy will develop normally. 
Dr. Cecil Jacobsen of George Washington University 
Medical School fertilized a chimpanzee egg in vitro with 
chimpanzee sperm, implanted it in the abdomen of a 
male chimpanzee, later delivering a healthy baby chimp 
through a Caesarean section. Australian researchers pre- 
dict that the technique could be adapted to male humans, 
leaving open the possibility of surrogate fathers. 
Test-Tube Women 
Needles, tubes, and speculums are probing ever deeper 
into women’s bodies, seeking a scientific understanding of 
the mystery of creation. Test-Tube Women is a feminist 
map to this new and largely foreign world of motherhood 
in the age of in vitro fertilization, sex selection, amniocen- 
tesis, surrogate mothering, and other rapidly expanding 
reproductive technologies. In 35 essays, studies, and first- 
person accounts, the authors collectively argue that the 
new reproductive technologies are an extension of men’s 
attempts to control women’s bodies and, further, are 
biased toward white upper-class eugenics. 
This is important and insightful reading for anyone inter- 
¢ See also ‘“Women’s Politics’ (p. 98). 
e You can also gain some insights into fertility matters from 
the books shown on ‘’Women’s Health’’ (p. 210) and ‘’Men’s 
Health’ (p. 211). 
ested in how these technologies are changing our lives — 
which they are — even if you don’t completely agree with 
the book’s position. 
—Jeanne Carstensen 
Why are they splitting the functions of motherhood into 
smaller parts? Does that reduce the power of the mother 
and her claim to the child? (‘I only gave the egg. | am 
not the real mother.’ ‘I only loaned my uterus. | am not 
the real mother.’ ‘I only raised the child. | am not the 
real mother.’) 
The advantages that egg farming offers women within a 
patriarchial context must be seen in light of our losses. 
Through egg farming, women can be divided into two 
groups: egg donors and embryo recipients. In an entire 
society, all women could be engaged in reproduction, 
either as egg layers or egg hatchers. Both egg layers 
and egg hatchers would be controlled in terms of food, 
travel, work, and stress to ensure optimal conditions for 
the embryo. Women as egg layers are already in demand. 
|. D. Cooke announces the need for female ovum donors 
in the next decade. Women as egg layers and egg hatch- 
ers would be seen by patriarchy as the means to a vital 
commodity — eggs. 
-FERTI 
HEALTH 
LITY 235 
Yul 
faved Baby 
pyr fin 
joRoen a fh 
You Can 
Have a Baby 
Joseph H. Bellina, M.D., 
Ph.D., and Josleen Wilson 
1985; 427 pp. 
$18.95 
($21.55 postpaid) from: 
Crown Publishers 
34 Englehard Avenue 
Avenel, NJ 07001 
or Whole Earth Access 
New Conceptions 
Lori B. Andrews, J.D. 
1984; 326 pp. 
$14.95 
($16.45 postpaid) from: 
St. Martin’s Press 
Cash Sales 
175 5th Avenue 
New York, NY 10010 
or Whole Earth Access 
Test-Tube Women 
Rita Arditti, 
Renate Duelli Klein, 
and Shelley Minden, 
Editors 
1984; 482 pp. 
$9.95 
($11.45 postpaid) from: 
Methuen Inc. 
29 West 35th Street 
New York, NY 10001 
or Whole Earth Access 
