LEARNING 
392 
Pantheon Fairy 
Tale and Folklore 
Library 
Titles include: 
African Folktales $10.95 
American Indian Myths 
& Legends $11.95 
Irish Folktales $19.95 
Afro-American Folktales 
$11.95 
Russian Fairy Tales $8.95 
Eighty Fairy Tales: Hans 
Christian Anderson $7.95 
Norwegian Folk Tales $6.95 
British Folktales $7.95 
An Encyclopedia of Fairies 
$8.95 
Italian Folktales $10.95 
The Norse Myths $7.95 
Catalog free 
All from: 
Pantheon Books 
Order Dept. 
Random House 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Vanishing 
Hitchhiker 
Jan Harold Brunvand 
1981; 208 pp. 
$6.95 
($7.65 postpaid) 
The Choking 
Doberman 
Jan Harold Brunvand 
1984; 240 pp. 
$13.95 
($14.90 postpaid) 
Both from: 
W. W. Norton 
500 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10110 
or Whole Earth Access 
FOLKTALES 
Pantheon Fairy Tale 
and Folklore Library 
This series of books offers attractively designed and illus- 
trated collections of folktales, myths, and fairytales from 
around the world. African, Irish, Norse, Italian, Russian, 
Chinese tales, and more, provide insights into different 
cultures and genuine entertainment. 
—Jay Kinney 
The Four Champions 
The Horny Head champion, the Penis champion, the 
Farting champion, and the Testicles champion set off on 
a journey together. They came to a town, where they 
lodged in the compound of the chief. Bundles of corn 
were sent to feed them from the chief’s storehouse — but 
the town had nowhere to thresh it! 
Then the Horny Head said, ‘’May the chief's life be pro- 
longed! Here we are and yet they’re looking for a place 
to thresh. Let them come and do it on my head!’ So they 
came and undid the bundles on Horny Head’s noggin. 
But then they had to find a piece of wood with which to 
thresh the corn so Penis said, ‘‘May the chief's life be 
prolonged! Here we are now, and yet they’re looking for 
something to thresh with! Just give me a bit of room and 
you'll see!’’ And pulling out his penis, he began 
threshing, and presently the corn was threshed. 
But there was no wind, and word was brought to the 
chief that, though the corn was threshed, there was no 
wind and so could be no winnowing. Then said the 
Wind Breaker, ‘‘May the chief's life be prolonged! Here 
are we, and in spite of that they’re still looking for 
wind!’’ And he unveiled his anus, and let rip. And all the 
chaff was blown away, leaving just the grain. 
But they had no bag to put the grain in. So Testicles said, 
‘‘May the chief's life be prolonged! Here are we, and in- 
spite of what we've done, they’re still looking for a sack 
to catch the grain!’’ And opening his scrotum, he said, 
‘Bring me the grain and pour it in here.’’ And they did 
it, and he carried the corn home. 
All right, among the four of them that exercised his 
special gift, who was the champion? 
—Hausa, African Folktales 
The Vanishing Hitchhiker 
¢ The Choking Doberman 
This lady came in from the rain, and her miniature poodle 
was wet and shivering. So she put him into the microwave 
to dry him off. He exploded. She was so horrified she had 
a heart attack and died. 
I’ve told that one. | thought it was true. It is, but a dif- 
ferent kind of true. It’s a modern urban legend, a grip- 
ping, bizarre, often moralistic tale that goes the rounds as 
a factual account — “‘It happened to a friend of a friend 
of mine’; “I read it in the newspaper.’’ Hundreds are in 
circulation at any time, and many do get picked up in 
newspapers. Vanishingly few have factual origins. 
But they are wondertul stories, living for decades and 
often reappearing after centuries in new guises. A major 
collector of these modern folk tales is Jan Harold Brun- 
vand in two riveting books, The Vanishing Hitchhiker 
(1981) and The Choking Doberman (1984). He collects, 
tells, compares versions, tests factuality, and interprets. 
How many can you recognize just from his titles? . 
. 
. 
“The Death Car,’’ “The Killer in the Back Seat,’’ ‘The 
Kentucky Fried Rat,’’ “Alligators in the Sewers,’’ “’The 
Solid Cement Cadillac,’’ “The Economical Car,’’ “Cruise 
Control,’’ ‘The Bump in the Rug,”’ ““The Stuck Couple, ’’ 
“Superglue Revenge,’’ “The Image on Glass,’’ and 
scores more. Many have to do with new technologies, 
many have to do with racism (the doberman is choking 
on black fingers) and fear of foreigners. 
Either book will give you a new angle on your civilization, 
but I’d get both. The stories ring in your mind for years. 
That’s what keeps them alive. 
—Stewart Brand 
A girl managed to wrap her hair into a perfect beehive. 
Proud of her accomplishment, she kept spraying it and 
spraying it, never bothering to wash it again. Bugs 
began to live in her hair. After about six months, they 
ate through to her brain and killed her. 
—The Vanishing Hitchhiker 
The lady came home from the grocery store, and she 
saw her husband working under the car. All that was ex- 
posed were his legs, so in passing she reached down, 
unzipped his zipper, chuckled to herself, and went into 
the house. Immediately she saw her husband sitting in 
the easy chair reading a newspaper. She cried, ‘“Who is 
that under the car?’’ and her husband replied, ‘’My 
mechanic.’’ She told her husband what she’d done, and 
they went outside to find the mechanic lying un- 
conscious, in a pool of blood, because when the lady 
unzipped his pants he was so startled he sat up and 
clobbered his head under the car. 
—The Vanishing Hitchhiker 
Her true story was about a jogger in Central Park in 
New York City. He had been running along early one 
morning at his customary pace and surrounded by 
streams of others out getting their prework exercise, 
when suddenly another jogger passed by him on the 
path and bumped him rather hard. Checking quickly, the 
jogger discovered that his billfold was missing from his 
pocket, and he thought, ‘’This can’t happen to me; I’m 
not going to let it happen.’’ So he upped his speed a bit, 
caught up to the other jogger, and confronted him. 
‘Give me that billfold,’’ he snarled, trying to sound as 
menacing as possible, and hoping for the best. The other 
jogger quickly handed it over, and our hero turned back 
toward his apartment for a shower and a quick change 
of clothes. But when he got home, there was his own 
billfold on the dresser, and the one he had in his pocket 
belonged to someone else. 
| hated to tell her that this was just a new aerobic varia- 
tion on an old commuter theme. How old? For starters, 
here’s a version from the ‘‘My Favorite Jokes’ section of 
Parade magazine, 3 September 1972, as told by comic 
Gus Christie: 
This is supposed to be a true story. A man, we'll call him 
Mr. Jones, is riding to work on the subway in New York 
City and there’s a guy who keeps bumping into him. 
After a while Jones gets apprehensive and thinks, ‘’This 
can’t be what | think it is!’’ He checks his wallet — and 
it’s gone. ‘’That’s it! Nine o’clock in the morning and | 
get mugged in the subway. Things are really getting 
bad.’’ He grabs the guy, shakes him hard, and says, “‘All 
right, cough up, give me that wallet!’’ The guy is 
petrified and he hands over a wallet. So Jones goes off 
to work and when he gets to his office his wife calls and 
says, ‘Honey, you left your wallet on the bureau this 
morning.” 
—The Choking Doberman 
