LAND USE 
72 
Color In Your 
Garden 
Penelope Hobhouse 
1985; 239 pp. 
$34 
($35.50 postpaid) from: 
Little, Brown & Company 
Attn.: Order Dept. 
200 West Street 
Waltham, MA 02254 
or Whole Earth Access 
Right Plant, 
Right Place 
Nicola Ferguson 
1984; 292 pp. 
$1 4.95 postpaid from: 
Simon and Schuster 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
or Whole Earth 
Access 
The Complete 
Shade Gardener 
George Schenk 
1984; 278 pp. 
$14.95 
($15.95 postpaid) from: 
Houghton Mifflin Co. 
Mail Order Dept. 
Wayside Road 
Burlington, MA 01803 
or Whole Earth Access 
HORTICULTURE 
Color In Your Garden 
Have you ever watched somebody do something they 
were really good at and then asked them to explain how 
they did it? Words often fail. Arranging color in a garden 
is like that because it involves positioning plants both in 
space and in time, through changes of bloom and 
season. Penelope Hobhouse succeeds at sharing years of 
gardening experience and at explaining the whys of her 
very refined sense of what goes with what. She begins 
with a color wheel and basic theory and moves on to 
chapters with titles like ‘“Clear Yellows,’’ “’Pinks and 
Mauves,’’ and “Hot Colors.’’ Each chapter has a plant 
catalog arranged by season. The color photography is 
exceptional. 
—Richard Nilsen 
> 
The low tones of the deep purple lupin flowers (center) 
are echoed in the foliage of purple-leaved sage (lower 
left) in a wall border. Although contrast in lightness 
and darkness between the lupins and the pale pink pa- 
pery-textured petals of the oriental poppy (left center) is 
extreme, nevertheless they both share characteristic 
redness, which remains distinguishable to the eye in the 
palest tints of pink, the darkest almost black reds, and 
the low smoky tones of textured foliage. Here we see two 
separate garden pictures. Sculptured gray leaves of arti- 
choke (top right) (Cynara scolymus ‘Glauca’) prevent the 
dark lupins from seeming dull by enriching their color; at 
the same time the silver-gray leaves help to make the 
pale pink of the poppy flowers more brilliant, thus in- 
creasing the effects of contrast with lupin and sage. 
Right Plant, Right Place 
This is a very diligent book of lists, 27 in all, with 
categories that are either types of garden plants (‘Plants 
with aromatic leaves’), or locations in the garden where 
they are to grow (‘Plants suitable for crevices in pav- 
ing’’). Plants in each list are divided into sections running 
from sun tolerant to shade tolerant, and within each sec- 
tion they are presented in order of decreasing height. 
There is also extensive cross-indexing between the lists, 
and each of the more than 1500 plants has its own 
2¥2-inch-square color photograph. 
The lady who did all this lives in Scotland and says in her 
introduction that she got into this when she acquired a 
garden needing an overhaul and couldn’t find a book like 
this to help her. | don’t think I’d like to do her grocery 
shopping, but she has produced an extremely useful 
book. The American editor is Fred McGourty, who has 
spent 15 years editing the ‘“Handbook”’ series for the 
Brooklyn Botanic Gardens. 
—Richard Nilsen 
The Complete Shade Gardener 
Shade seems a function of modern urban life. Scarce 
land is expensive, and architects who get to cram square 
interior feet onto tiny lots often have little time or inclina- 
tion to consider what that does to the space outside. This 
author has the additional consideration of climate, since 
he gardens in Seattle, Washington. He says it got so bad 
one drippy August that toadstools sprouted on the carpet 
in his car. He takes all of these sufficient reasons not to 
garden and turns them into a wondertully opinionated, and 
even humorous, display of all that shady sites can offer. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Aesculus Hippocastanum (Common Horse Chestnut). 
Heavy shade, invasive roots. The fallen leaves cake 
together in a slippery mass. And yet, | know of a 
perfectly successful shade garden composed of a small 
maple, rhododendrons, and woodland perennials in new 
soil beneath an old Horse Chestnut. The lesson here is an 
extendable one: almost any ‘’bad”’ tree can be pressed 
into service as a shade garden canopy if you plant in 
fresh soil and provide sufficient moisture. 
V. Sackville-West’s Garden Book 
| am reading this book for the fourth time in two years. 
V. Sackville-West wrote a weekly gardening article for the 
London Observer for fourteen years and built up a 
tremendous following in England because of her great 
knowledge of plants and flowers, her unusual capacity for 
combining utter romance and hard practical advice, and 
her great wit, intelligence, and independence. 
Color was the basis of the organization of her garden, 
with trees down to groundcovers in bloom in the same 
color range at the same time. She kept refining combina- 
tions, groupings of textures, shapes, and sizes. 
The Garden Book is written in twelve chapters, one for 
each month, and is a great book for learning, for sheer 
entertainment, and for endless inspiration in your own 
garden. You may have trouble finding some of the plants 
she talks about, but you will never have to worry about 
ending up with any oversized fluorescent geraniums! 
—Virginia Baker 
V. Sackville-West’s 
Garden Book 
Philippa Nicolson, Editor 
1968; 250 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Macmillan Publishing Co. 
Order Department 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth Access 
