Books on Buddhism 
Buddhism is a nontheistic world view 
and meditative endeavor which has 
helped millions of individuals and 
dozens of societies live in clarity and 
peacefulness. According to Nancy 
Wilson Ross, nearly one-fourth of the 
people on earth are followers of this 
way of life and thought. 
The main teachings of Buddhism are 
interdependence, that nothing exists 
separate of everything else; nondual- 
ity, that correct perception requires 
becoming one with the object; non- 
violence, which springs from this 
empathetic understanding; and joy, which arises from 
maintaining awareness of what is actually happening, 
even as it changes. The root “‘buddh’’ means to be awake, 
or aware, and the most important practice in Buddhism is 
awareness of what is going on: in your body, your mind, 
your feelings, and the world around. The many schools 
and sects of Buddhism — including Zen (meditation), 
Tibetan, Vipassana (insight), and Shin (devotion) — all 
derive from these fundamental teachings of Shakyamuni 
Buddha, who lived 2,500 years ago in northern India. 
For the past century, and particularly the past 30 years, 
Asian teachers have brought these meditation practices 
and understandings to Westerners, and a generation of 
Western Buddhist practitioners is now making these teach- 
ings available throughout the U.S., Canada, Europe, and 
Australia. In addition, many universities now have pro- 
grams in Buddhist studies. A complete directory of Buddhist 
centers is available from Snow Lion Publications. 
There are many excellent books, journals, newsletters, 
and tapes on Buddhism in English. The three books | 
recommend most highly are The Miracle of Mindfulness, 
by Thich Nhat Hanh, Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind, by 
Shunryu Suzuki, and Meditation in Action, by Chogyam 
Trungpa. They all speak clearly, simply, and directly 
about Buddhist understanding from within the tradition. 
A fourth book, Taking the Path of Zen, by Robert Aitken, 
provides an excellent how-to manual for someone en- 
tering Zen practice. 
Two other introductory books, Buddhism: A Way of Life 
and Thought, by Nancy Wilson Ross, and What the Buddha 
Taught, by Walpola Rahula, elucidate Buddhist philo- 
sophy and history in clear, nonacademic terms. For further 
reading, see the bibliography in Nancy Wilson Ross’s 
book. For further information or meditation instruction, 
contact one of the centers listed in the International 
Buddhist Directory. 
—Arnold Kotler 
The conception of dukkha may be viewed from three 
aspects: (1) dukkha as ordinary suffering (dukkha-dukkha), 
(2) dukkha as produced by change (viparinama-dukkha) 
and (3) dukkha as conditioned states (samkhara-dukkha). 
All kinds of suffering in life like birth, old age, sickness, 
death, association with unpleasant persons and conditions, 
separation from beloved ones and pleasant conditions, 
not getting what one desires, grief, lamentation, distress 
— all such forms of physical and mental suffering, which 
are universally accepted as suffering or pain, are includ- 
ed in dukkha as ordinary suffering (dukkha-dukkha). 
7s 
—What the Buddha Taught 
Breath counting: Zazen is a matter of just doing it. 
However, even for the advanced Zen student, work on 
the meditation cushions is always being refined. It is like 
learning to drive a car. At first everything is mechanical 
and awkward. You consciously depress the clutch and 
shift into low, then release the clutch gradually while 
depressing the gas pedal, steering to stay within the 
—The Miracle of Mindfulness 
more confident. And you become 
a better and better driver with 
experience. 
—Taking the Path of Zen 
@ 
The purpose of studying Buddhism is 
not to study Buddhism, but to study 
ourselves. It is impossible to study 
ourselves without some teaching. If 
you want to know what water is you 
need science, and the scientist needs a laboratory. In the 
laboratory there are various ways in which to study what 
water is. Thus it is possible to know what kind of elements 
water has, the various forms it takes, and its nature. But 
it is impossible thereby to know water in itself. It is the 
same thing with us. We need some teaching, but just by 
studying the teaching alone, it is impossible to know what 
‘I’ in myself am. Through the teaching we may under- 
stand our human nature. But the teaching is not we our- 
selves; it is some explanation of ourselves. So if you are 
attached to the teaching, or to the teacher, that is a 
big mistake. 
—Zen Mind, Beginner’s Mind 
® 
During its long centuries of quiet pilgrimage by land and 
sea, much of Buddhism’s powerful influence may have 
had its source in the deliberate avoidance of claims to 
exclusive Truth, adherence to inflexible dogma, or the 
authority of any final, sacrosanct, theocratic hierarchy. 
The ‘Come and see for yourself’’ attitude of the original 
Great Teacher, Siddhartha Gautama, who became the 
Buddha, the Enlightened One, his pragmatic insistence 
on ‘Don’t take my word for it. Try it yourself!’’ the 
unswerving challenge of his famous aphorism, ‘’Look 
within, thou art the Buddha’ — all this served to lower 
the resistance that so often attends the arrival of a new 
and unfamiliar faith. 
—Buddhism 
@ 
Buddha never claimed that he was an Incarnation of 
God, or any kind of Divine Being. He was just a simple 
human being who had gone through certain things and 
had achieved the awakened state of mind. It is possible, 
partially at least, for any of us to have such an 
experience. 
—Meditation in Action 
Taking the Path 
of Zen 
Robert Aitken 
1982; 149 pp. 
$9. 50 
($11.00 postpaid) from: 
North Point Press 
850 Talbot Avenue 
Berkeley, CA 94706 
or Whole Earth Access 
LEARNING 
395 
BUDDHISM 
white lines and to avoid other cars. 
Meditation 
|
There aresomanythingstoremember 
In Action 
and to do all at once, that at first 
Chogyam Trungpa 
you make mistakes and perhaps even 
1969; 74 pp. 
have an accident. But when you 
$ 4.95 
become one with the car, you are 
: 
($5.95 postpaid) from: 
Shambhala Publications 
P. O. Box 308 
Boston, MA 02117 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Miracle of 
Mindfulness 
(A Manual on Meditation) 
Thich Nhat Hanh 
1976; 108 pp. 
$7.95 
($9.95 postpaid) from: 
Beacon Press 
Order Dept. 
25 Beacon Street 
Boston, MA 02108 
or Whole Earth Access 
Buddhism 
Nancy Wilson Ross 
1980; 208 pp. 
$6.95 
($7.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
Order Dept. 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth Access 
Zen Mind, 
Beginner’s Mind 
Shunryu Suzuki 
1970; 138 pp. 
$5.95 
($6.95 postpaid) from: 
Charles E. Tuttle Co., Inc. 
28 South Main Street 
Rutland, VT 05701 
or Whole Earth Access 
International 
Buddhist Directory 
Compiled by Tushita 
Meditation Centre 
1985; 120 pp. 
$8.95 
($10.45 postpaid) from: 
Snow Lion Publications 
P. O. Box 6483 
Ithaca, NY 14850 
or Whole Earth Access 
What the Buddha 
Taught 
Walpola Rahula 
1974; 15] pp. 
$8.95 
($10.45 postpaid) from: 
Grove Press 
Order Dept. 
10 East 53rd Street 
New York, NY 10022 
or Whole Earth Access 
