SSS 
The forward rolling loop of the roll cast. 
Fly-Fisherman’s Primer 
The Fly-Fisherman’s Primer is an excellent basic guide to 
the gentle art of fly fishing. All the most important topics 
are covered in the text, including equipment, knots, casting, 
presentation, insect life, nymphing and wading. A begin- 
ning fly fisherman could pick up this book, spend a few 
evenings with it, then head out to the river and do fairly 
r ee 
(Of course, that depends on the river. A knowledge- 
able friend and a little experience help, too.) 
The book also contains knowledge useful to more than 
advanced fly fishermen. Plenty of competent fly fishermen 
cannot tie a decent nail knot or distinguish a may fly from 
a caddis fly. The Fly-Fisherman’s Primer will remedy this. 
Clear line drawings illustrate the various casting and fly 
tying techniques. Nice color plates of trout species and 
—Danielle Toussaint 
fly patterns, too. 
Brook Trout (Char) 
Trout 
Above all, this is the one book to buy. It is a window on 
the entire subject for $125 — just about what a top river 
guide charges for the day. However, no guide will get you 
through the hard times — the long winter months of the 
off-season — the way this book will. If there is a college 
course on fly fishing somewhere, this is the text, for begin- 
ners and experts. Unlike a text, each chapter sparkles 
with fishing tales. 
The two volumes of Trout, in an attractive slip case, are 
divided into six separate books or subjects (1745 pages): 
The Evolution of Fly-Fishing; American Species of Trout 
and Grayling; Physiology, Habitat, and Behavior; The Tools 
of the Trade; Casting, Wading and Other Skills; Trout 
Strategies, Techniques, and Tactics. Color plates, draw- 
ings, and diagrams are all done by the author. 
Eighty-seven pages are devoted to a primer of modern 
fly casting. Few books convey fly casting well, because 
understanding it relies so much upon feel. This section 
comes as close to imparting feel as a book can. 
—Tom Macy 
Stealth and cunning are the primary rules. Your approach 
must be muffled, and you cannot plunge through the 
stream-side willows and alders without alarming the fish. 
Your final presentation must be gentle, placing your fly 
softly in the current so the trout will not be frightened. 
Careful fishermen will most often approach from down- 
stream on a small river, behind skittish trout, and usually 
conceal themselves behind willows and tree trunks and 
grass. It is valuable to watch the reaction of the fish, 
either taking the fly readily or refusing it. Such lessons 
are not easily learned on larger streams, where you 
seldom see the trout at close range. 
There are moods when the cacophony and leg-wearying 
power of a big river become oppressive. Difficult wading 
and countless double hauls can erode both body and 
soul. Big water holds big trout, and there is a period in 
the maturing in the career of every fisherman when he is 
addicted to the pursuit of a trophy-size fish. Once you 
have that fever in your blood, it is a passion that drives 
you beyond good judgment. 
Dan Bailey’s Fly Shop 
e Cabela’s 
Reading Dan Bailey’s Fly Shop mail order catalog during 
the off-season is sweet torture for anglers of the fly fishing 
persuasion. The color photographs of fly patterns, rods, 
reels, fly boxes, and tying supplies can easily intoxicate 
fly fishermen caught in these painful winter doldrums. 
Bailey’s catalog not only offers a good selection of pre- 
tied dry flies, wet flies, nymphs, and streamers but all the 
necessary fly-tying accessories and supplies. The com- 
pany doesn’t charge for postage if you spend $50 or 
more, and a quick perusal of their catalog will convince 
most fly fishermen to adjust the balance in their check- 
books by at least that amount. 
Cabela’s doesn’t have quite the variety of Bailey’s, but 
the prices are generally lower. 
| —Danielle Toussaint 
Bailey's: catalog free from Dan Bailey’s Fly Shop, P. O. Box 
1019, Livingston, MT 59047. 
Cabela's: catalog free from Cabela’s, 812 13th Avenue, 
Sydney, NE 69160. 
a 
ES 
EE 
EE IE IOI I EN TIE 
EE ITE TM TERESA SE ID EL DENOTE, 
¢ This angling classic, originally published in 1654, is the 
first serious written work about fishing. 
The Compleat Angler: |zaac Walton, 1654, 1985; 160 pp. 
$4.95 ($5.95 postpaid) from Viking Penguin Books, 299 
Murray Hill Parkway, East Rutherford, NJ 07073 (or Whole 
Earth Access). 
The Compleat Angler’s Catalog 
Would a golfer read 349 pages about golf equipment? 
Not likely. But serious fishermen read — and appreciate 
— Scott Roederer’s The Compleat Angler's Catalog. As 
the author notes in the first chapter, ‘‘Perhaps nothing will 
ever be written that fully accounts for the fascination most 
fly fishermen feel for their sport. 
. 
. 
. Nowhere in the sport 
is that fascination so clearly evident than in the fly fisher- 
man’s love of his equipment. ”’ 
Every type of fly fishing equipment imaginable is critiqued 
in this catalog. Prices and company listings are also in- 
cluded. While the book is basically a buyer’s guide, it 
also lists fly fishing and conservation organizations. 
—Danielle Toussaint 
Orvis Fly Threader. A nifty device for getting that tippet 
through the hook’s eye, even in darkness. $5.25-$5.50 
Kau, Hun, Orv 
Tie-Fast Knot Tyer. For nail and blood knots. $2.95-$3 
Kau, Fly, Pen 
HEALTH 
FISHING 251 
Fly-Fisherman’s 
Primer 
Paul N. Fling and 
Donald L. Puterbaugh 
1985; 160 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
Sterling Publishing Co. 
2 Park Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth Access 
Trout 
Ernest Schwiebert 
1978; 1745 pp. 
$1 25 postpaid from: 
E. P. Dutton 
Two Park Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Compleat 
Angler’s Catalog 
$1 4.95 from: 
Johnson Books 
1880 South 57th Court 
Boulder, CO 80301 
