Conscientious Guide to Drug Abuse 
For once, for a review we'll use the self-description on the 
back of the book, It’s accurate. 
CONSCIENTIOUS GUIDE TO DRUG ABUSE is a 32-page 
crash program in drug survival. You should read this if you’re 
under 25 and live anywhere in the United States. Or, if you’re 
wondering which rumors you've heard about MDA, THC and 
LSD are actually true. 
Or better yet, if you would like to avoid the hassle of having 
to get your stomach pumped at the county hospital. 
If you're tired of scare propaganda (Who believes all of that 
anyway? ), you will find C.G. an anti-propaganda device, 
curiously refreshing. 
Conscientious Guide to Drug Abuse 
Vic Pawlak 
1970; 32 pp. 
$0.75 
from: 
Do It Now Foundation 
P.O. Box 3573 
Hollywood, Ca. 90028 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
quantity orders for resale 
from: 
Mastodon Publications 
c/o Do It Now 
4514 Fountain Avenue 
Los Angeles, Ca. 90029 
BUM TRIPS 
One of the prime factors inherent in acid is the possibility of incurring 
a bum trip. This possibility has kept many from tripping. Over the 
past several years in particular, it has been nearly impossible to obtain 
pure acid. Most stuff is mafia-originated and cut heavily with speed 
and/or strychnine (rat poison). Under clinical circumstances, bum trips 
rarely occur unless provoked. But when acid contains strychnine, 
speed or other impurities, the possibility of a bummer increases 
tremendously. 
The best advice to give straight or inexperienced people about dealing 
with bum trips is: Don’t panic. Be gentle, kind, and smile a lot. If 
neceassary to avert a traumatic chains of events, divert the person with 
pleasant music or a change of atmosphere (like turning off or on the 
lights). Most bum trips could have been prevented if the right 
information was only known by the person’s friends ahead of time. 
Clinically, Thorazine (a strong tranquilizer) has often been used to 
relieve the effects of a bum trip. Thorazine works by tranquilizing the 
system and relieving the built-up tension, Lately the use of Niacinamide 
has become popular in relieving bummers; this substance, buffered 
by Niacin or Vitamin B3,chemically changes LSD to another lysergic 
substance that has no effect on the body or mind. 
It seems unlikely that the availability or legal staus of LSD will be 
changed significantly in the next few years. Slowly, as the practical 
uses are realized, there may be a loosening of restrictions regarding 
research with the drug, At best, acid may soon be recognized as a 
legitimate, useful chemical to be given only under careful supervision... 
SPEED KILLS, It’s true. People have been taking speed ever since it 
was developed before World War |I!. How many people have you ever 
met who have been taking Speed for as much as 10 years? 6 years? 
A few 3 and 4 year veterans are around, but not in very good shape. 
Even smack addicts have a longer life span. 
Speed kills. The reason most kids don’t notice it is because they have 
young, healthy bodies that can take a lot of stress and strain before 
they finally give in. Speed activates the entire body and forces it to 
race at high rates of speed for long periods of time. The larger the dose, 
the greater the strain. The smaller the dose, the smaller the strain. 
This is why Speed can be legitimately prescribed in minute doses (in 
diet pills, pep pills, etc.), for several months without apparent harm. 
A lot of speed puts a great strain on the entire circulatory system 
and often causes aneurism (ballooning) in the arteries or vessels. 
Appetite is non-existant. Food is a big drag and it is almost impossible 
to eat solids. Sleep is also very difficult, if not impossible, during the 
run. Both lack of appetite and inability to sleep are side effects of speed; 
the body becomes very wasted when no nourishment or chance for 
sleep-rejuvenation takes place. 
The liver and kidneys, which filter impurities from the system, are 
forced to over-work. This creates a situation which like operating a 
complex water pump and filter system without water. It just burns up. 
Because of the massive stimulation of. the nervous sytem by 
Amphetamines and because appetite and sleep patterns are disturbed, 
an eventual state of toxic psychosis often occurs. This is usually 
charcterized by hallucinations, tremendous Panic or fear reactions, 
with added waves of despondency and depression. During this period 
It is extremely tempting to avoid the hard comedown by shooting up 
again or dropping more speed. By the third or forth day of continuous 
use the chemical starts taking over, everything seems unimportant. 
Speed actually enables years of ageing and deterioration to be 
squeezed into a few weeks or months. 
In addition, Speed freaks often suffer an acute state of paranoia. 
Friends who used to take Speed imagined that people were staring at 
them through windows‘and whenever they weren't looking. The 
natural uneasiness-nervousness that comes from Speed is intensified by 
fear of getting caught or busted. 
Kids who are on Speed make a big mistake that is common to this and 
other hard drug users. The more Speed they take, the more their heads 
get messed up anyway, and take more speed to alleviate the anxiety 
caused by-intense confusion. Of course, the end result is only increased 
confusion, anxiety, and decreased mental capacies. Another proven 
effect of Speed is eventual damage to brain functions; people who 
as had ae control of the English language find themselves unable 
oO remember 
proper words, and even have 
diffi 
i 
i 
all hard drugs will do this----but Spsedwillicenn t oapas ceo 
2 
IN CASE OF SPEED OVERDOSE 
Hospitalization is almost never necessary. The person will be very 
wired at first, eventually leveling off after several hours. Speed may 
be very dangerous for those with heart defects. 
Besides long-term dangers of Speed itself, there are several dangers 
associated with using needles for the injection of the drug. The most 
common of these, hepatitis, will be discussed here: 
- 
HEPATITIS 
The common form of hepatitis is “viral hepatitis’, caused by an unclean 
needle or contamination of the drug being injected. There is nausea, 
loss of appetite, possible vomiting, and usually a feeling of being ill 
similar to the flu, but on a heavier scale. Following this, jaundice, 
yellowing of the skin and eyes, usually occurs. After a period of weeks 
to months, the patient feels fairly well. But the extensive cost and good 
care involved with such a rehabilitation are usually too much for the 
average speed freak to afford. 
J 
Research that is being done suggests that the average case of hepatitis 
among speed users is of a more chronic type. Weeks and even months 
after recovery from hepatitis, blood tests from the liver show high 
abnormality. It may be that a more chronic disease state is still 
occurring; cirrhosis of the liver has been suggested by one researcher. 
Cirrhosis also occurs in some alcoholics; normal liver tissue dies or is 
choked by other, non-functioning tissue... 
e 
ALCOHOL 
Classification: Depressant. 
Overdose potential: Possible, when taken in sufficient amounts or 
mixed with Barbiturates. 
Physical addiction: Yes. 
Common methods of consumption: 'ngested, liquid form. 
Notes: 
Alcohol is a depressant; in chemistry and pharmacology, it resembles 
cholral hydrate and paraldehyde. 
The pitfalls are many and varied. It is among the most dangerous 
drugs in existence, ranking in the category of Speed, Barbiturates and 
hard narcotics. An estimated 6 to 7 million Americans are chronic 
alcoholics, or one out of 30. 
The American Pharmaceutical Association, in their pamplet on 
“‘Drug Abuse Education,” credits alcohol with causing ‘acute and 
chronic intoxication, habituation, physical dependence and addiction. 
Withdrawal symptoms (delirium tremens) result when alcohol is 
discontinued.” 
Because of the extent of the alcohol problem in the US and elsewhere, 
a great deal is known about treatment and cure of alcoholics. For 
more information or assistance, contact your local chapter of 
Alcoholics Anonymous. 
Medical Uses: As mentioned earlier, alcohol and hashish were once used 
as an anasthetic during open’surgery with reasonable success. Before 
either was widely available, alcohol was sometimes used medicinally. 
(Remember the Old West doctors in the movies?) 
Alcohol is extremely dangerous when taken with most Bariturates 
because it heightens action of the pills so much that it can create an 
overdose. 
; 
Dulse, and Dry Your Mushrooms 
Have you ever tried Dulse? Its a seaweed that is harvested at low tide, 
and dried in the sun—sort of an ocean-going chewing tobacco. Some 
people use it in stews, chowders etc., but I like to chew it just as it is, 
I'll enclose a sample, and a booklet from a place up in Canada that 
sells it. I like it better than the Japanese kelps I tried in California. 
Perhaps some of your other food freaks would like it too. 
Also in a Catalogue supplement I got recently, there was a piece about 
wild mushrooms. Lots of people are leery of them because there are 
some real poisonous kinds, but these can be easily recognized, and 
there are probably only a couple or so kinds to look out for, the 
Destroying Angel (Amanita verna et al) and the Fly Aminita and its 
kin (Amanita muscaria et al). At the other extremes there are 
several good eating kinds that are also easily learned and unmistakable; 
the meadow mushrooms, the Inky Caps, the Chantrelles, Morels, 
Blewtts et al. In between there are dozens of others that can be very 
confusing at first, some oj which are excellent, some useless, and some 
mildly toxic and which might make you sweat, halucinate or barf 
if 
you eat them, but have no real serious effect. 
Sometimes the edible kinds appear in great abbundance. I liked them 
dried. Wash well to get rid of sand, slice the large types, spread on 
sheets of alluminum foil that has been liberally smeared with 
margerine, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Dry them in the sun if 
its hot, or in a warm oven with the door open if its a dampish day. 
Again, some people use them in stews etc., but I like to chew them 
dry. They are a kind of vegetarian beef jerky. 
Walt Downing 
Danbury, Connecticut 
Bulk Dulse (5 lbs. or more) 
$1.40/lb. 
Trish moss 
$1.00/lb. 
Bladderwreck 
$1.00/lb. 
from: 
Fletcher W. Harvey 
Seal Cove, Grand Manan 
New Brunswick, Canada 
ee 
arn 
a) 
About Crystal Consciousness 
Students at the Slade School in London were inspired 
by — 
Keith Critchlow to construct a form he called the curvicostate, — 
a close-packing skin polyhedral structure. The students built — 
the structure and wrote a detailed pamphlet on how they got 
there. Inquire to: 
; 
oe 
Se 
seen 
Paul Marchant 
Slade School of Art 
° 
University College 
Gower St. 
London W.C, 1 
ENGLAND 
Old Car Magazine 
A 100 page magazine full of ads for Ford and Non-Ford cars 
and parts and literature and misc...that’s ‘‘Hemmings Motor 
News!” Lots of pictures make the whole thing worth while 
for the person with a casual interest in old cars. (Almost- 
— 
all the cars advertised are vintage or antique...but not al! of — 
them.) It’s monthly and cheap. 
aS 
The publishers are coming out with a magazine called ‘‘Special 
— 
Interest Autos” that looks good. It will be available for 
about five bucks per year. Looks like it will be interesting, 
but you can decide for yourself. Get the “Hemmings Motor — 
News” first and it will tell you where to send off for 
s 
“Special Interest Autos.’ The former is the real tool, the 
latter looks like it might be fun. 
Ee 
~ 
David O. Weaver — 
Witchita, Kansas 
__ 
Hemmings Motor News (monthly) 
$2.75/yr. 3rd class; 
$9/yr 1st class 
Pic 
$13.50/yr airmail 
‘We 
from: 
Hemmings Motor News 
Box 380 
Bennington, Vt. 05201 
Armored Money Truck 
1920 Wells Fargo body, 1939 
Reo nose 
and chassis. Bulletproof walls and windows. 70 per cent 
restored, sandblasted, primed, interior completed. $400. 
Free delivery. D. Donovan, 1132 Washington 
St., 
East 
. Bridgewater, Mass. 
. 
Would You Believe! Real, authentic captured Russian Jeep! 
1966 vintage, complete. Good, restorable condition. Be tne 
first In your neighborhood, or city, or state, or even the _ 
United States! Only $2,000.00. Aadlen Brothers, 11590 Tuxford 
Street, Sun Valley, California, 91352. Phone (213) 875-1400. 
