Asteromo 
Arcosanti Workshops 
, 
ola Soleri 
Consanti Foundation 
- 6433 Doubletree Road 
é Scottsdale, Arizona 85251 
_ SOLERI'S FIRST CITY ARCOLOGY, IN 
_ CENTRAL ARIZONA, CONSTRUCTION IS BEING 
_ DONE ENTIRELY BY STUDENTS AND 
_ APPRENTICES, ORGANIZED IN A SERIES OF 
SIX WEEK WORKSHOPS. NEXT YEAR THE 
WORKSHOPS WILL RUN FROM APRIL TO 
- 
NOVEMBER AND COST THE STUDENT ABOUT 
$200. THIS MONEY IS USED FOR TOOLS AND 
_ SUPPLIES, AND IS CREDITED TO THE STUDENT’ 
IN A PLANNED SPACE RENTAL SCHEME.CALLED 
CO-USERSHIP. 
_ AS ARCOSANTI IS BUILT AND LIVING-WORKING 
_ SPACE BECOMES AVAILABLE, IT WILL BE 
_ OFFERED FOR SALE ON A SQUARE FOOT BASIS. 
- PEOPLE WILL PURCHASE A CERTAIN AMOUNT 
- OF SPACE, SAY 120 FT., FURNISH AND USE IT 
pf AS THEY PLEASE. IN THEIR ABSENCE, THE 
_ SPACE MAY BE CONVERTED TO SOME OTHER 
_ 
USE OR OCCUPIED BY SOMEONE ELSE, AND 
_ WHEN THE OWNERS RETURN, THEY WOULD 
_ OCCUPY A DIFFERENT 120 SQUARE FT.----- 
_ THAT IS, YOU PURCHASE NOT ONE PARTI- 
_ CULAR SPACE, BUT AN AMOUNT OF SPACE. 
_ THIS IS CO-USERSHIP. 
_ THE MORE WORKSHOPS YOU ATTEND, THE 
_ CHEAPER THE CO-USER RATES BECOME. 
3 
4 workshops attendance. Co-use at $3.00 per sq. ft. 
é: 3 workshops attendance. Co-use at $4.00 per sq. ft. 
a 2 workshops attendance. Co-use at $5.00 per sq. ft. 
lg Barkshop attendance. Co-use at $6.00 per sq. ft. 
a 0 workshop attendance. Co-use at $10.00 per sq. ft. 
ES Additional $100 per co-user for land payment. 
: ,) - Each workshop is composed of 5 working weeks and 1 elective week. 
i 
Rennie Boyd 
Sa 
Santa Cruz, California 
_ few people have gotten to see paolo solari’s exhibit of his 
: work at the whitney museum in new york, and not too many 
_ can put out $26 to buy his book (which is well worth it.)... 
but for $1 you can purchase his poster which comes out each 
fall. solari runs a summer school program for architecture 
poveents. each year he puts out a poster in the “‘siltpile 
series’ advertising his school and generally telling what they're 
into. well anyway, its a neat poster every year and he’s now up 
Eto“ ‘siltpile no. 11” 
a 
- send $1 to: 
_ coasanti foundation 
_ 6433 east doubletree road 
scottsdale, arizona 85253 
jon zimmerman 
3 
: 
norfolk, virginia 
Piloting and Navigation Courses 
Author: United States Power Squadrons 
Price: Free 
Publisher: United States Power Squadrons 
P.O. Box 345 
Montvale, NJ 07645 
(Write to National Headquarters for the time and place of course 
a earest you or phone Toll Free 800-243-6000) 
_ LAST SUMMER WORK WAS BEGUN ON ARCOSANTI, 
French Intensive Gardening at UC Santa Cruz 
THERE IS A student-run garden on the campus of 
the University of California at Santa Cruz which 
puts forth flowers and vegetables in an abundance 
and with a vigor that simply must be seen in per- 
son to be fully comprehended. To me this demon- 
stration, this dazzling year-round fertility rite, has 
long-term implications which, while not entirely 
clear, may well prove to affect the lives of thou- 
sands, perhaps even millions, of Americans as the 
years go on. 
The word “revolutionary” is both easy and 
dangerous to throw about these days, but it is 
surely appropriate to use it in this context, for the 
dedicated young people who are responsible for 
the garden have not only succeeded in producing 
flowers and vegetables on a four-acre hillside plot 
in quantities many times—at the very least, four 
times—greater than are realized in commercial 
agriculture, they have created an on-going insti- 
tution with a sense of purpose, a sense of hope, a 
sense of community, and a pervading sense of 
sanity which today so many other of our institu- 
tions and activities lack in one degree or another. 
While many of 
these students may feel the outrage 
that has driven so many others on so many cam- 
puses in so many different, often tragic, directions, 
the basic motivations 
at Santa Cruz appear to 
rise from quieter wellsprings.... 
There are some basic observations about the 
“French Intensive Method” (as Chadwick calls 
this school of organic gardening) which are central 
to the garden’s success. 
First off, the soils in the garden are constantly 
enriched. Initially, nitrogenous crops such as fava 
beans were set out, and the planting beds were 
dressed between each crop with two-year-old 
composted manure—untreated and right from 
the farm, quite different from the bagged product 
you get at the supermarket. Bone meal is added 
to each bed, but in smaller quantities than during 
the first two years. Wood ash was and is used for 
many vegetables. As much compost as could’ be 
acquired or made was worked into the beds ini- 
tially, and composting remains a regular and 
important part of the soil-conditioning process. 
Each time a bed is reworked for sowing or ptant- 
ing, the soil is improved, and oftentimes it is even 
richer after the crop has been grown and har- 
vested. (1 noticed during my first visit to the 
garden that the organic materials used to enrich 
the soils are always referred to as nuttiments, 
rather than nutrients. I confess that I wasn’t cer- 
tain that “nutriment’”’ wasn’t merely a corruption 
of “nutrient,” so I looked up both in the dic- 
tionary. According to Webster’s Collegiate, 
a 
nutrient is ‘‘a nourishing substance or ingredi- 
ent,” while a nutriment is “something that nour- 
ishes or promotes growth and repairs the natural 
wastage of organic life.” | doubt that I’ll ever 
forget this elegant differentiation.)... 
Like soil enrichment, pest control is pursued en- 
tirely without synthetic chemical tinkering. Occa- 
sionally, the apkid population may get out of 
hand on certain crops, such as Brussels sprouts, 
and if the natural predators fail to move in, 
nicotine sulphate (a highly toxic, plant-derived, 
non-persistent 
insecticide) 
is sprayed 
on 
the 
plants. Other than this, and the control of snails 
and slugs by hand, pest control is left to nature. 
These are Steve Kaffka’s thoughts on the subject 
of letting nature work and helping nature work 
to achieve the optimum garden: 
“The word ‘pest’ needs redefining. In nature, 
there’s no such thing. There are balances in nature 
which work to maintain healthy plant life—in- 
sects, birds, animals, each has its place. The gar- 
dener following the principle of simulating nature 
seeks to preserve the balance. If this is done, the 
word ‘pest’ doesn’t enter the picture. Our garden 
is a bird sanctuary, we have more birds this year 
than ever before, they increase every year. To 
encourage the birds to come and stay; we allow 
wecds such as groundsel and dandelion to remain 
and go to seed, then the birds eat the seeds. Many 
birds, such as juncos and canary warblers, are 
both seed and insect eaters. We provide birdbaths 
and water troughs and let them drink unmolested. 
We also try to discourage the presence of cats for 
the sake of the birds. 
“When you don’t use pesticides and poisons, 
you frequently have insects such as mantis and 
ladybugs which prey on destructive insects. Each 
year, the harmless insects increase in number, as 
do the birds which feed upon them. Each year 
without poisons makes life more possible and 
plentiful for all.” 
from: 
“The Lesson of a Garden” 
by William Bronson 
in Winter 70/71 Cry California, $9/yr. from: 
California Tomorrow, Moradnock Building 
681 Market Street. 
San Francisco, California 94105 
A beginning gardener, with his foot planted on a board to keep from compacting soil in the carefully prepared 
bed, transplants cabbage seedlings under the instruction of staff member Steve Kaffka, right. Transplanting is 
done in the evening hours. 
The U.S.P.S. has taken an excellent piloting course and made it better 
Y offering it free. This course not only covers piloting, but also gets 
0 the rules of the road, seamanship, boat construction, maintenance 
and safety afloat. 
Bad Land Law 
Don Biggs just informed us that knowledgable land-owners 
are alarmed by this pronouncement of the California 
Supreme Court: 
The Court said in a recent decision that a private 
land owner’s failure to chase people off a piece of 
beach front for the last five years, in effect, implied 
a “dedication to public use’’. Until this is resolved 
a lot of people are worried about losing land they 
need to provide income and/or jobs for others. 
Tele Sessions 
[212] 725-2525 
Bob Easton told Lloyd Kahn, who told us that this number 
(in NY) can get you into a telephone conference call with 
expert strangers on whatever specific subject youre into 
(their ad lists anthropologists, dog breeders, gourmet 
cooks, oceanographers, venture capitalists, etc. etc.). 
Further info: 
The course is usually held once a week for 2 hours during a 12 week 
pe riod. This course is much better than those offered by the Coast 
G juard because it puts more emphasis on piloting and chart work. 
Another advantage to this course is that upon passing the examination 
Ee the end, you are asked to become a member of the U.S.P.S. 
Me bers are eligible to take advanced courses in Seamanship, 
0 
Advanced Piloting, Navigation, Weather, Marine Electronics, Sail and 
igine Maintenance. These courses are usually priced at about $15, 
! Bo 
at including plotting instruments, which, if you expect to do any- 
hing 
with what you've learned, you’ll need anyway. 
Tele Session Company 
475 Fifth Ave. 
New York, New York 10017 
5 : 
Robert Point | 
B23 
South Amboy, NJ 
