of oswell, New Mexico, Concerning Human- 
owered Flight 
| 
ave completed my research on the “‘take off” mode of the 
zzard and his in flight mechanics. When | started, | had 
ended to fabricate a device that would duplicate the 
Buzzard’s system, after my results were in, and_checked, it 
ealed that man flight is very marginal and would seem a 
ong research and developement program would be required, 
1d the odds were just not good enough for me to procede. 
For instance assume you could develop a machine as 
ficient as the buzzard. You would have to generate .7HP to 
ay up in still air. You would have to develop 4.7 HP to rise 
2.8 feet per second in still air. You can develop 4.7 HP for 
are in prime training. However, any time there are 1.8 feet 
per second ascending winds you can soar as does the buzzard. 
The buzzard can not sustain flapping flight for over a 20 min. 
period, and will not fly if not ascending winds are available 
inless forced to. 
| intend to publish my work in some scientific journal when 
| have the time. 
‘ 
see 
Regards. J.S.Seney. 
(ares 
N-POWERED FLIGHT COMPETITION A challenge from Eng- 
land is expected to spur action in the United States toward 
achieving successfully controlled man-powered flight, and at- 
tempts to capture the British-offered Kremer prize of $24,000. 
obert Graham, chairman of the Man-Powered Aircraft Group, 
British Royal Aeronautical Society, trustees of the prize, recently 
taunted American aviation experts by saying: “My committee and 
| feel that the country with the greatest aviation industry in the 
_ world is lagging behind in efforts to achieve not just the Kremer 
Prize but fully controlled and sustained man-powered flight, 
which we believe can be attained by a sufficiently sophisticated 
_ and determined team.” 
_ Graham said a dozen groups in the United States are studying 
ways for man to propel himself through the air. Some of them 
re at Purdue University, MIT, Georgia Tech, Michigan State, 
Bell Telephone Laboratories, Grumman, Philco-Ford, and Collins 
Radio. 
= 
In conjunction with the World Soaring Championships in 
‘Marfa, Texas, two members of the Purdue group, Curtis J. Cole 
and John H. McMasters, presented a paper summarizing results 
of studies on man-powered flight conducted by Purdue students 
and staff members. Their study recommended that an interna- 
ional man-powered aircraft society be formed to open world- 
ide communication on the subject, encourage attempts for the 
_ prize, and serve as a source for technical data. 
“Anyone interested in establishing such a society is urged to 
contact me at 225 Sylvia Street, West Lafayette, Indiana 47906,” 
said McMasters, who has an extensive bibliography on 
- man-powered flight available free. Include an addressed, 
_ stamped, legal-size envelope with requests. 
‘The Kremer prize originally was open only to citizens of Great 
~ Britain or the Commonwealth, but rules were changed in 1967 
opening the competition to anyone. Rules are to be reviewed 
by the Royal Aeronautical Society on December 31, 1973. The 
_ prize is offered for the first man-powered flight around a figure- 
~ eight course with two pylons a half-mile apart, at an altitude of 
10 feet. 
- Air Progress 
November 1970 
TES. 
ot”, 
=or people who are into kite-flying as a hobby or a sport, | 
vould like 
to suggest a listing of the American Kitefliers 
; 
ciation. Their mailing address is P.O. Box 1511, Silver 
ity, New Mexico, 88061. They are the only true organization 
e fliers 
in the world, representing 40 states and nine 
foreign countries. They publish a quarterly magazine, 
Tales” which contains many articles of interst on 
bu ding 
and 
flying kites, as well as advertising for all different 
- 
Se s of kites, probably the biggest selection anywhere. Maybe 
{\ 
. 
Membership costs $10.00 per year, which includes a 
bscription to the magazine. 
>. 
Sincerely, Pax, 
~~» 
Robert Williams 
fe 
; 
Worcester, Massachusetts 
bout 8 sec. and can develop .7HP for about 15 minutes if you 
Boomerangs 
For wonderfully complete information on construction, 
history, throwing, purchase, and appreciation of boomerangs, 
write to Benjamin Ruhe at The Smithsonian Institution, 
office of Public Affairs, Washington, DC. 
Following are excerpts from his Boomerang Workshop. 
! love The Smithsonian. 
7 
y 
pane 
eter, 
\ (smallj 
dish) 
, 
é 
\ 
5 
' 
\ 
dingle arm 
NS 
NOTE: These sections 
ere slightly exagger- 
ated for clerity. 
Cut 
to the relative 
proportions shown. 
Work should be very 
securely clamped, 
and knife blede 
G 
really esherp. 
Making Your Own 
\ 
-Making your own boomerang is not difficult; all you need is a piece 
of “Three eighths’’ five ply (actual thickness is about five sixteenths, 
but to get this you usually have to ask for three eighths thickness), a 
sharp knife and a whetstone to keep it sharp, a couple of small ‘‘C’’ 
clamps, a sheet of 80 grit sandpaper, and a suitable saw to cut out the 
shape. 
The boomerang illustrated is for right handed throwers. lf you are 
- 
left handed, all you need do is to look at the plans through a mirror 
so that everything is reversed from right to left. 
The design of the boomerang shown below is a very simple one, 
selected as especially suitable for a beginner to make as it requires 
No previous experience and is foolproof (well, almost), giving a nice 
curving flight that should bring it back fairly close to the thrower. Also, 
because of its flexible design, it can be made with a large variety of 
plywoods, and the 18" size means it can be made from readily 
available off-cuts from a lumber yard, sparing you the expense of 
buying a whole sheet. It is NOT, however, a competition quality 
boomerang, but will give you hours of enjoyment nevertheless. 
PROCEDURE 
Obtain a sheet of aircraft or high-grade marine plywood (5 ply) and 
mark out the straight lines shown in the diagram. The actual elbow 
and tips should be rounded, however--do this by drawing a couple of 
circular arcs at the elbow with a 3-inch drinking glass or compass, and 
with a 6-inch dish or the equivalent. Draw the curves for the tips in 
freehand as shown in the figure and then cut it out, using a saw. Next 
clamp one arm firmly to a table or workbench, leaving the other one 
free to work. With straight, even strokes, slice off wood to attain the 
aerodynamic contours shown in the sectional drawings at the bottom 
of the main sketch. Make sure that the direction of the knife stroke is 
such that it makes an acute angle with the grain on the top layer of 
wood; otherwise this may tear or lift off. If you find this happening, 
cut from the other direction. 
Do not be afraid to take wood off, but check from time to time that 
you are following the general sections shown in the drawing. When 
completed, the weight of the boomerang should not exceed four ounces. 
After the knifework is over, sand it down smoothly with 80 grit 
“sandpaper and give it a few throws. If all appears to be well, finish the 
boomerang off by coating it with floor wax or brown shoe polish to 
waterproof it. If it does not return properly, but tends to run out of 
spin and drops in front of you, sand off a bit more material from the 
trailing edge of the dingle arm making the taper near “'b'' more sloping, 
until it works right, but be careful not to take too much off or you'll 
wreck the whole thing. 
With regard to the balance of a boomerang , this is a fairly complicated 
thing. Suffice it to say that the important thing is not so much the 
static balance you see when you put it across your finger, but the 
dynamic balance of it whenin flight. It should appear to have a hole 
about two inches in diameter when spinning rapidly, at the inside 
curve of the elbow. Actually, it is this hole that does the travelling 
when the boomerang is thrown, the fact that it is accompanied by the 
boomerang being more or less incidental. 
- 
Suitable Conditions 
The boomerang should be thrown into a LIGHT BREEZE ONLY. 
Early morining or late afternoon usually offer the best conditions. 
Larger boomerangs can at times be thrown into fairly moderate winds, 
but generally the results are poor. Best results are obtained when a few 
blades of grass have to be used to indicate wind direction. 
Throwing into high winds even on a large clear area is dangerous, since 
these conditions cause the boomerang to climb steeply, and travel 
with the wind a great distance, and at a great speed. 
The Throw 
Grasp either end of the boomerang with the thumb and first two 
fingers of the right hand (special boomerangs are needed for left 
handed people) and hold it firmly with the flat side outward so that 
the plane of the boomerang is inclined at about 60 degrees to the 
horizon, then give it a gentle throw with plenty of spin. 
it should curve around to the left and climb slightly, turning around 
and finally stopping to hover in the vicinity of the thrower. 
The key to success in the whole operation is the imparting of con- 
siderable spin on the throw, and this is aided by holding no more than 
an inch and a half of the tip of the boomerang, and by not actually 
releasing it but by making it pull itself out of the hand by its own 
impetus, pivoting around the index finger when doing so. 
¥ 
The Odyssey: A Modern Sequel 
This epic poem may well turn out to be the spiritual handbook 
of the future. In fact, our future may lie within its pages. Immanently 
suitable to the Whole Earth philosophy and this revolutionary 
generation, it traces the struggle of one hero through the successive 
stages of ego, race, mankind and all matter to 
acommunion with the 
best post-Christian, non-Eastern concept of God I've run across yet; 
a struggling, ascending, evolutionary Spirit, neither Almighty, All- 
holy, nor pitiless, haphazard Nature itself. Odysseus finds it is his duty 
as the Spirit’s highest, most sublime evolutionary creation to assist in 
the struggle;that his freedom, his salvation is concomitant with that 
of his God, that he must save his God to save himself, even from the 
illusion of salvation itself. It’s a harsh, rugged philosophy, necessitating 
a joyously tragic, dionysian nihilism; but its essence is pure spiritual 
freedom and it places the burden of action directly on men. 
On the other hand, like all great epics, it can be read first on the 
superficial level of great adventure, replete with battles, orgies, desert 
treks and primitive jungle kingdoms as Odysseus’ spiritual journey 
takes him almost due south from Achaean Ithaca to decadence in 
Crete, political oppression in Egypt, down the Nile to its source near 
the mountain peak of his enlightment, and on through Africa to 
freezing death in Antartic wastes. Buddha and Christ, Faust and Don 
Quixote put in appearances and rap with Odysseus, the famed ascetic 
philosopher, in various adventures after his enlightenment. The 
splendid verse translation is lush, organic with lots of good Nature 
symbolism. In short, this book’s got everything and covers everything. 
Get it and be a believer. 
The Odyssey: A Modern Sequel 
by Nikos Kazantzakis 
Translation into English Verse, Introduction, Synopsis, and Notes 
by Kimon Friar; Illustrations by Ghika; 826 pp. 
A Criterion paperback 
$2.95 
from: 
Simon and Schuster 
630 Fifth Ave. 
N.Y., N.Y. 10020 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
O gypsy Life, with sun-briads, with coquetting eyes, 
for years I’ve stumbled in your light, your holy haunts, 
for years been put to shame, hunting your empty shade, 
thrashing my arms with rage, tearing the wild wind’s hair! 
Sometimes you seemed like Beauty, passion-quelling Helen, 
a shadow’s coolness, smell of musk, or the sea’s atr, 
seductive dancer paid in the ecstasy of drink 
to please our eyes with your adroit erotic tricks; 
at times, when earth embittered me in my full youth, 
you seemed, O Life, like the grass-widow Virtue, sad, 
unlaughing, and I seized my spear to guard you well, 
as though you ever cared, O luring siren-song, 
for justice or injustice of the joys of men! 
One dawn as I gleaned the mind’s loneliness in vain, 
I heard the seas, the heart, the earth call me for help; 
God called in greatest peril, and I rushed to build 
a head for him to hide in, a town in which to sleep. 
Forgive me, Life, if I’ve so stupidly pursued 
such gaudy plumes as whence we come and where we go; 
I’ve squandered years in hunting what I thought firm flesh, 
your three great shadows: Beauty, guileless Virtue, Truth; 
but may these wanderings, too, be blessed that in good time 
brought me to your nude body cool as warbling water. 
Let Death come down to slavish souls and craven heads 
with his sharp scythe and barren bones, but let him come 
to this lone man like a great lord to knock with shame 
on his five famous castle doors, and with great awe 
plunder whatever dregs that in the ceaseless strife 
of his staunch body have not found time as yet to turn 
from fleah and bone into pure spirit, lightning, deeds, and joy. 
The Archer has fooled you, Death, he’s squandered all your goods, 
melted down all the rusts and rots of his foul flesh 
till they escaped you in pure spirit, and when you come, 
you'll find but trampled fires, embers, ash, and fleshly dross. 
Thomas Edwards 
San Francisco, Ca. 
