oe 
ed 
a 
ae 
lit 
oad 
OK 
: 
Please don’t mention my name, I’m a fugitive. 
Athalmer 
BiG 
Canada 
From an Aspiring Milkmaid 
I’m into milking cows, preferably by hand (it’s sensual) but machine 
will do because I just really like being with the cows. They understand 
really alot, 
Any way'l want to get ajob; and I would like to like my 
job so why not get ajob milking cows? But I don’t know how to go 
about getting such a job. I wrote to the Dept. of Agriculture and the 
Chamber of Commerce in Vermont but they don’t seem to want to 
answer, So what I’m asking you is—Do you have any suggestions as to 
where I can get ajob milking cows ANYWHERE in the states or does 
anyone want to feed me to milk their cows? (etc if it’s to do with 
cows) Someone just write about cows! 
Love, 
Diana Meredith 
Box.29 
Hillsburgh 
Ontario’ 
Canada 
“Facilities for Women Animal-Keepers’’?! 
(open appeal to readers of Jan. supplement) 
Comrades, 
Good old local zoo has no apprentice program, no part-time 
summer zookeeperships, is very leery of union hassles, and 
“although women are welcome to apply, we just don’t have 
the facilities for women animal-keepers.”” 
If you have a zoo or know of one that is more receptive to 
young female aspiring zookeepers, please let me know. 
(College is in the way so !| am thinking toward the future.) 
In addition, if anybody knows of good books on bears and 
wolves particularly relating to their care and management 
in Zoological protective custody, I'd be grateful if you'd send 
the titles and names of publishers to me. 
Regards, 
Mary Lee Schneiders 
5314 Lakepointe 
Detroit, Michigan 48224 
Gwinco Means Potatoes, S.A. 
Much is being written and talked about the family going to Canada, 
but there is also a moderate exodus to South America. A bit of advice 
to those who know of Mexico, and who might fell that the other 20 odd 
countries are about the same. It just ain't so. Language, customs, and 
race change in subtle and in very obvious ways. 
It’s a whole new trip, and if S.A. grabs you, no place looks quite right 
or seems like home again. 
If anyone wants to know where we are at and what's happening in 
Ecuador, we would be very glad to be of help. ‘Jes write to 
Ira 
Gwinco 
Apartado 2097 
Quito--Ecuador 
S.A. 
Peace, 
Ira 
Last Year Cheaper 
You can get the “Handbook of Chemistry & Physics” cheaper if it’s 
last year’s edition, | got mine (1961) in 1962 for $6.50. It helps 
if a bunch of people can order direct all-together, maybe on school 
letterhead. 
F 
Thomas Register can often be gotten FREE (also last year’s) by 
approaching industrial libraries, or even the local Public Library, who 
generally get swamped by everybody’s old edition. Big businesses 
make a real thing out of keeping up to date and Thomas doesn't update 
with supplements--new 7 volumes every year. 
Frank Mittermeir, 355 E. Tremont Ave. Bronx NY 10465 sells a 
superb line of woodworking chisels, gouges, etc. Also metal working 
tools at realistic prices. A small shop, so don’t order the catalog unless 
you really want to buy. 
Love, peace and keep up the good work! 
Peter Heinlein 
Yonkers, NY 
Karma | 
How To Build A Still). As you well know this resulted in our being 
much happened but by August and September we were overloaded 
with inquiries and orders. 
threw us into a panic situation from which we have not yet fully 
complaining. Had we known your impact we would been better 
prepared, 
a nationwide TV appearance by ourselves with Dan Rowan 
(Rowan and Martin Laugh-In) and Dinah Shore. Also CBS Radio is 
preparing a discussion of wine-making in the US and is going to 
picked us up from your catalog. 
Meanwhile, thanks millions and we'll get back to trying to bail out 
from under all our paperwork. If you should receive any inquiries 
concerning our present sluggish service we wish you would convey 
our regrets and assurances that as soon as we can recover from our 
unexpected good fortune we'll be prompt and efficient once again 
(Hopefully). 
Cordially, 
Norman E. Gilbey 
The Wyne Table 
P.O. Box 490 
Norman, Oklahoma 73069 
Other People’s Mai 
We are writing in appreciation for being included in your Spring edition 
of the WHOLE EARTH CATALOG (wine supplies and book entitled 
included in a review of your catalog by NEWSWEEK. At 
first not too 
Unfortunately we are a very small business and the unexpected publicity 
recovered. Most of our supplies are imported from Great Britain and 
the Continent and the six weeks to two months delay in re-supplying 
has caused us to have quite a back-log of unfilled orders. But we aren’t 
By the way another very important by-product of your magazine was 
include a taping with us in their presentation. Both of these networks 
Karma II 
Penne cn 
A year ago, when you did Liferaft, I felt a little surprised that _ 
you were putting energy into a paranoid trip. | was alsoa 
little curious, a little envious, as I watched people leave here 
to go and participate. | had never fasted. Six days ago I 
‘ 
began a fast, my first; and as I began I knew it would last 
at least seven days, because Liferaft had been seven days. 
I sat today for a long while under a green tree looking up at 
the sky through the leaves. There were many different shades 
of green and as the sun moved the patterns of the leaves 
changed; it was very beautiful. 
ea 
For some reason I found myself remembering a sentence from _ 
a science book I'd been reading: “Probably 300 million 
= 
children in the world today are so undernourished that they 
— 
are suffering permanent brain damage.” 
ee 
Since I came to live in the country I have been keeping use- 
less information out of my head. I don’t want to listen to _ 
horror stories when I could be chopping wood or canning 
blackberries or telling a story to the kids. I refuse to worry __ 
about something that I can’t do anything about. But'this 
—__ 
sentence didn’t feel like that. There I was, under a tree, 
surrounded only by good things, and yet I knew that on this 
planet children were hungry real children, children that] 
_ 
could easily reach in a days time (given enough money and ere 
a passport). They were inside my head, and it was right that 
they were inside my head. 
I don’t know where to go on from here. It feels like lari : 
climbing aboard the Liferaft, a year late. 
fear 
; 
Elaine 
Cave Junction, Oregon 
American Forest Institute, and Back 
American Forest Institute’s member companies have 65 million acres 
of forest land open for free public recreaction like camping, hunting 
and fishing. That's a lot of land, more than in the national Parks and 
National Forests combined. 
Virtually all our members publish recreation guides like the three I’ve 
enclosed. There most be more than 50 guides to free areas all over the, 
country. Some are pretty much wilderness, and some have facilities 
like tent platforms, outdoor grills, running water and so on. 
I’m working up a guide to all these guides with maps and lists of who 
to write for information about different areas. It will Probably take 
about three months because most of the companies are revising 
their material for 1971 guides. When | get AFI's guide put together 
I'll send you a few and you can decide if you'd like to list it in the 
Whole Earth Catalog. After you've seen the guide, ask around and let 
me know how many would move through Whole Earth Catalog so we 
won't run out, It will be free. 
In case you're wondering what American Forest Institue is, it’s an 
association of companies and individuals dedicated to conserving the 
nation’s timber growing lands for MULTIPLE use, growing trees for 
harvest, free public recreation and wildlife management. 
I've only been working at AFI for 3 months, but multiple land use 
sounds like the most good for the most people to me. For companies 
or the government for that matter, to fence off land for just ONE use, 
like just growing trees, or just recreation (although there are a few valid 
exceptions in both cases), would be like saying, ‘“Look, you can use 
this room for sleeping, no reading, no lovemaking, no eating or anything 
like that, just sleeping.” 
“A 
Pigasus and Wavey Gravy at Liferaft Earth. 
Peace, 
’ 
Donald Biggs 
American Forest-Institute 
1835 K St. NW- 
Washington DC 
Donald Biggs, 
A friend of mine, Gordon Ashby, was asked by Bank of America to 
advise on environmental things they might do. He advised: since they 
handle mosts of the loans to Boise, Weyerhauser, and the rest, and 
since most of that land is used in a 150 year time-envelope, then jet 
them require that the timber companies make the land available in 
small parcels (20-100 acres) on 20 year non-renewable leases to 
temporary dwelling--our tipi, adobe, log cabin builders who are 
desperate for a place to spend their energy ina learning way that 
doesn’t hurt land, and don’t build raods particularly. Well, B of A all 
said Nice nice but no one here can initiate a policy like that. 
The Idiot’s Guide to VW Repair, Guides On 
3 months in London and now to Spain. N. Africa 
and on to Zermatt for Christmas. 
ee 
Writing a book about “How to Feel Your Way 
Through Europe and Other Subjects”’ 
: 
Feel good is a way of life! 
John & Eve Muir 
Is it so impractical? 
—Stewart 
a 
Cheaper Ocate Bags 
This August i bought an Ocate Bag in Santa Fe and spent2 
— 
weeks up around Wheeler Peak--beautiful sleeping bag---- 
comfortable--warm--lightweight--thanks for the | isting-by | 
the way, if you buy from the factory in Santa Fe, they only - 
sell seconds (1/8 thinner than retail) and are much cheaper 
__ 
and are just as good-- 
i 
; 
later-- 
rick fleshin 
Austin, Texas 
wei 
te 
ae 
