ers 
_ 
AlaskaCosts 
as.” 
= a - Wes Plouf sent us a pamphlet on Alaskan lands along with these 
_warnings: “Land prices are low away from towns and highways, 
_ but the cost of living is the highest in the country and un- 
employment away from Anchorage is high. There is plenty 
_ 
of room here, and you will be welcomed, but Alaska 
still kills the careless and those who can’t plan.” 
Fairbanks, Alaska 
_ 
Apartment Rentals (excluding utilities) 
$175.-196.00/month 
$227.-269.00/month 
1 bedroom unfurnished 
2 bedrrom unfurnished 
Gasoline for automobiles 
$.55--$.57 
$.59--$.61 
Regular 
Ethel 
Trailer Space Rental 
Approximately $45.00-$55.00/month. Includes water, sewer and 
garbage. Electricity, fuel and propane extra. 
Current US Department of Labor figures indicates the cost’ of living 
in Fairbanks is 132% while the current cost.in Seattle is listed at 100%.: 
Developing an Alaska farm or ranch from raw land to production 
‘requires years of hard work, and also an investment of from $30,000 
to $150,000 depending on the type. A vegetable farm with 20 to 25 
acres in production will cost from $1,200 to $1,500 per acre to 
develop. A dairy farm of 200 to 225 acres for 100 to 200 head of 
dairy cattle requires an investment of from $600 to $800 per head 
with the estimated total investment ranging from $75,000 to 
$150,000. An annual income of $5,000 to $10,000 may be expected. 
ANCHORAGE 
PORTLAND 
1. 5 lb. bag potatoes 
98 
49 
2. large box Kellogg’s Corn Flakes 
OO: 
.28 
3. half gallon enriched milk 
-93 
.49 
4. three-pack box of potato chips 
219 
-69 
5..3 lb. of hamburger 
2.07 
1.77 
6. quart of Best Foods mayonnaise 
89 
.69 
7. dozen cans of Campeell’s soups 
3.12 
2.06 
8. loaf of balloon bread 
53 
41 
9. six pack of Rainier Beer 
1.59 
1.08 
10. 3 lb. of round steak 
5.07 
3.84 
ie bolend of Armour “Mira Cure” bacon 
1.19 
98 
12. one dozen hares eggs 
-61 
SHE 
13. carton of Marlboro’s 
3.39 
2.69 
14, 4-roll pack of tissue paper 
-49 
SL) 
15. 3 lb. can of Crisco 
93 
3 
23.13 
17.36 
IS lee 
First Americans in New Zealand 
Under Fare-Subsidy Program 
‘Special to The New York Times 
AUCKLAND, 
New 
Zealand,| 
Some have already 
arrived 
Dec. 
12—Migrants 
from 
the/and the flow is expected to in- 
United States have started ar-jcrease 
once 
companies 
that 
riving in New Zealand under a|wish to employ the applicants 
subsidized 
passage 
arrange-jare found. 
ment. 
Salaries 
for many occupa- 
Until recently only Britons|tions in New Zealand are less 
and, in a few special cases/than half of what is paid in 
Continental 
Europeans, 
had|the United States, but the cost 
been eligible for assistance. 
of living is also lower. The main 
"In September the regular-as-|-easons for choosing a steep 
sisted-passage 
program 
was 
aay 
: 
widened to cover people from|‘eduction in pay seem to be 
the United States and: several|the strains and tensiohs of life 
Western 
European 
countries.jin the United States and em- 
Migrants accepted for the pro-|ployment difficulties. 
gram pay only $25 for passage} 
Many Americans arrive every 
id 
ate single and $46 if year at their roa 
nse to 
Since 
then 
New 
Zealana|Settle. The figure for the year 
Government offices in the Unit-jending March 31 was 1,716, an 
ed 
States 
have 
received 
ajincrease of 400 over the pre- 
steady 
flow 
of 
applicants.|vious year. The indications are 
Among 
them 
are 
tradesmen|that this year’s total, including 
ae Cr 
iecaegd : rea ale subsidized eee will be, 
electrical and 
electronic engi-| considerably 
higher. 
neers, teachers and a husband 
y 
and wife who hold doctorates. 
The New York Times 
13 December 1970 
sent in by Roger Knights 
 MusieMusie 
To Musical Instument Makers and Their Friends 
a list is being pulled together for publication in WEC 
of individual instument makers in this country and 
Canada; those making any kind of instrument on a 
regular basis. I’d like to get name/address from those 
who know of one, or from the maker himself this 
information: 
: 
photos, if possible 
prices 
overall length/width/thickness on such things as often 
differ, such as dulcimers, obscure instruments, one’s 
Own inventions 
whether or not you do mail order 
general description/information, like how many 
strings; do you make both classical and steel string 
guitar; do you give tuning instructions if asked for, 
and so on. 
John Dubroff 
(for WHOLE EARTH CATALOG) 
Dulcimers Continued 
I’m hoping this reaches you in time for you to consider it for 
inclusion in the new catalog. You have had various people write in 
about mountain dulcimers in past catalogs, and I want to add my 
two cents on this subject. 
First, a list of dulcimers I have played and liked very much: 
Frank Profitt, Jr., Vilas N.C., 28642 --made the same way Frank Sr. 
used to. Available in several kinds of wood, all finely crafted and 
true. Must be individually ordered. I have one now and would not part 
with it. 
Jean Ritchie, 7 A Locust Ave., Port Washington, N.Y.--made the 
same way Jean’s own are—also available in various woods, finely 
crafted and true. 
Joseph E. Smith, Musical’ Instruments, P.O. 791, Marshall Ca.--seen 
at the Renaissance Fair in 1968. Also beautifully made with a good 
ring. 
One from back east, either made by Jethro Amburgey of Hindeman, 
_Ky or Homer Ledford, 125 Sunset Blvd, Winchester, Ky. (not so finely 
made but sturdy and true with a good ring) was less expensive than the 
above instruments. I have heard good things about both of these makers, 
at least as far as their past work is concerned. 
Dulcimers I have seen or played and don’t like— 
Jeffrey’s or Appalachian Dulcimer Corp., 232 W. Frederick St., 
Staunton Va. 24401--I had one for several years and was glad to pass 
tt in to a friend who was just starting out. These are well-made but 
heavy and do not seem to play true in the upper octave. They do net 
ring like the above. Price—around $100. Too much!! 
: 
Huges Co. kit for $19.95--seen in the Truck Store. This is a bunch of 
plywood and for the time and trouble to put it together you might 
as well get good wood. I don’t know what it sounds like but hate to 
imagine. 
Other sources--several are listed in past catalogs. There are 6 listed 
‘in the current SingO ut! (559 Broadway, N.Y., N.Y. 10012) including 
some of the above as well qs “The Dulcimer Works, 1402 Olympic 
Blud, Santa Monica Ca. 940404”. This last one looks like the old 
McCabe’s Topanga Canyon Dulcimer which was very beautiful and 
one of the sweetest I have ever played. 
I have seen and played various ones people have made for themselves— 
some are very good and some are pretty funny. If you want to make 
one, various sources of kits and books are listed in past catalogs and in 
SingO ut! The Folk-Legacy Record and book by Howie Mitchell 
(FSL-29, record $6.95, book $2.95, Sharon, Conn. 06069) are said to 
be very good. 
: 
The best know-how-to book I know of is an article 
in the Journal 
of American Folklore, Jan.-March 1958, by Charles Seeger which 
describes specific measurements and construction methods and 
shows various instrument shapes and styles, as well as giving some 
history of the instrument. 
AS for how-to play books and records--Howie Mitchell (Folk Legacy), 
Jean Ritchie (Oak Publications and Folkway Records), John Putnam 
(The Plucked Dulcimer and How to Play It, Council of the Southern 
Mountains, Berea, Ky) A.W. Jeffreys’ book (Tuning and Playing the 
Appalchian Dulcimer, 416 Parkwood Lane, Staunton Va.) are all 
good. But the best way ts to listen to people and then do it yourself. 
Jean Ritchie says she asked her father to teach her how to play and 
he said, ‘There tt is on the wall. Take it down and if you can play it, 
you can, and if you can’t, you can’t.” 
Hope some of this is some use to you, 
Peace, 
Peg Benepe 
Palo Alto, California 
Demand for Exotic is Growing 
Couple of things I'd like to see listed but know of 
no suppliers for! One is rather exotic musical 
instruments—e.g. ondesmartenot; theremin; 
ondioline; mellotroi, etc. Who sells them? The other 
thing I’m seeking is a good, elementary book on 
playing the sitar. 
Bob Shell 
Roanoke, Virginia 
AcGt 3 dj BOG CE) SN EM Ce Pe Ge es 
REED 
(25g Mon oS 
OEE Sie a a 
=—— 
al ED NS GG SD eS  ——_— ——— a —— —— 
= 
ures 
Exotic Delicate Instruments, Especially Harpsichords 
I’m a sculptor, actually, but I’ve lately become jnvolved in harpsichords 
and clavichords. I got to reading about them, and then started 
building clavichords, and concentrating on them. I might mention 
briefly some of the qualities clavichords have which draw me to them. 
They are, as you probably know, an early keyboard instrument, very 
| simple in principle. When played, they are so quiet as to be drowned 
out by 2 people talking. They can’t be played with another instrument, 
as they are too quiet, and I seriously doubt that they could be played 
very satisfactorily in a city, due to traffic noise. But (the delicious 
but) they are the most sensitive of all keyboard instruments. You can 
play with a volume range down to nothing, and you can add 
vibrato to a note by pressing your finger gently up and down on the 
key. If you are sensitive, you can feel the vibrations of the string 
in your finger.as you hold the key down. Now here’s the thing. 
Almost everything you see on TV, or read in magazines, billboards, 
etc. etc. 1s designed to be seen or readby someone who is not too 
interested. Commercials must catch the guy just heading into the 
kitchen, must reach out and grab the listener. I guess one of the big 
things that turns me on about clavichords is that they make no 
attempt whatsoever to do this. You must come to them, and you 
must come on their terms, that is absolute silence. As you play, or 
listen to one, your level of hearing grows more acute. What sounded 
lke a faint tinkling when you started becomes full, almost loud 
music. Then, if someone coughs, it sounds like dynamite. I like the 
idea of small sounds being appreciated, and of 
great sensitivity, which 
you must seek out, which is not rammed down your throat. If you 
approach a clavichord on its own terms, it has a tremendous amount 
to give. 
Now for something of more use to you. In this whole bag of reviving 
old instruments, there are a number of sources of information. 
“Three Centuries of Harpsichord Making” by Frank Hubbard, 
Harvard University Press, 79 Garden Street, Cambridge, 02138, 
$12.95, is simply a fantastic book. It describes the ‘technical 
processes used to make harpsichords (he doesn’t deal with clavichords 
at all) and it is so thoroughly researched it makes your head spin. He 
spends quite a bit of time with general processes of the time 
(1500 to 1800) such as how lumber was cut and sold, what sizes of 
boards could be bought, how common pins were made (you wouldn’t 
believe it!) the tools used, etc. Another great book is “The Modern 
Harpsichord” by Wolfgang Zuckérmann, October House, 55 W.13th St. 
N.Y., 10011, $15.00. This deals with instruments being made today. 
He has good sections on old instruments and practices, then the 
main body of the book is a section listing modern makers, with 
addresses, photographs, cockeyed opinions, very good opinions, 
humorous anecdotes etc. 
4 
Makers of modern instruments are all in that book, but you might 
be interested in some of the more interesting among them, mostly 
those who made kits. 
J. Witcher, Ancient Instruments, 
17715 La Rosa Lane, Fountain Valley, 
California, 92708. This firm is a gas (run by 2 ex-underwater engineers) 
and they make harpsichords, virginals, clavichords, Gigues, Liri da 
Braccio, Citterns, Hurdy Gurdies, Epinettes des Vosges, Baroque 
Flutes, Baroque Oboes, Baroque Oboes d’Amour, Cornetti, mute 
Cornetti, Rackets, Curtals, and the famed Baroque Bassoon. Honest. 
Their dulcimers go for. around $30 and $45. They also make a hurdy 
gurdy kit $75 and a table model clavichord kit (895 or $125). Neat 
SUuys. 
E.O. Witt, Route 3, Three Rivers, Michigan, 49093. He makes a very 
serious line of harpsichords and clavichords (including fretted clavi- 
chords--the only man I’ve heard of doing that, and in this crowded 
world if you’re the only man doing anything, it’s something). He has 
a good line of clavichords from $505 to $1025, and he says he 
supplies them partially made (all the tricky parts done) for about 2/3 
that price. Ditto his harpsichords, at about half price. They look 
very good. 
Herbert Burton, 917 O Street, P.O. Box 222, Lincoln, Neb., 68508, 
makes a.really neat looking harpsichord kit, $590 complete with 
everything but liquid finishing materials. He says you can make it 
- 
in 60 to 80 hours (not including finishing) using no special tools, and 
no clamps. It ts a big, versatile, well designed instrument. He also 
Says he ships kits the same day the order is received. 
Zuckermann Harpsichords, 115 Christopher St., N.Y., 
10014 is an 
address I’m sure you know. His hardsichord kit is $150, produces a 
rather ugly, squat, unversatile instrument with amazingly loud tone. 
He makes a clavichord kit for $100, but all you get is a keyboard, 
piece of plywood for soundboard, some wire and other odd bits 
and pieces. 
Frank Hubbard, 185 A Wyman St., Waltham, Mass., 02154. 
Fantastic maker of instruments (all harpsichords). He makes a kit 
(8700 for one keyboard, $900 for two) which is difficult and exac ting 
and only to be undetaken by experienced woodworkers, but which 
makes an instrument about as good as any you can buy {including the 
$4000 ones!) Top of the line stuff, for serious people only. 
William Post Ross, 791 Tremont St., Room 515, Boston, 02118, 
though mostly a serious maker of fime harpsichords, has a virginal 
kit (snicker snicker) for about $560. Virginals are rectangular 
harpsichords, with a rounder, “‘tubbier”, sometimes louder tone than 
harpsichords. They don’t take up much room in a house. His kit 
produces a historically accurate 18th century Italian instrument. 
S.R. Williams, 1229 Olancha Dr., Los Angeles, 90065, makes kits, for 
a small harpsichord, a triangular spinet, and one or two other 
things, but I’ve lost the brochure. They looked good, though, not too 
expensive, 
More stuff. H.L. Wild, 510 East 11 St., N.Y., 10009, is a fantastic 
source for guitar supplies. He has all the woods (Deluxe German 
German Silver spruce etc.) necks, rosettes, fret wire, tools, books, 
every thing, Really great. Banjo parts too! 
I don’t know if you want all this junk or not, but I suspect that the 
kind of people who want to stop killing, stop eating plastic food, stop 
building plastic relationships, get off the ladder of success, who want 
to smell trees, and hear the little noises in the world, would also like 
to hear and make music, and make their own instruments. If 
nothing else, out in the boondocks of Kentucky there is a clavichord 
freak (who would have thought...) 
Harold R. Lungland 
Murray, Kentucky 
