Rt.2 
Seagrove, N.C. 27341 
#4- Bottle Vase 
#17 - Chinese Bulb Bowl 
314” wide, 644” high, 144” opening 
514” wide, 2” high 
Frogskin, White, Mottled Black-White, | 
Frogskin, White, Mottled Black- 
Sait glazes. 
White glazes. 
7 
The Maine Times is not the only publication devoted to telling it like it 
s. 
A number of other regional publicatons have sprung up to get out 
he word, There’s a totally wonderful monthly called The New Mexico 
Review and Legislative Journal. They nearly folded over the summer, 
it apparently made it. Indepth coverage of New Mexico, socially, 
ologically, and politically, with indepence, wit, style, fine graphics, 
many noted writers, including new material by Robert Creeley, 
cott Momaday, Winfield Townley Scott, etc. $5 a year. There's 
Iso one in Texas--The Texas Observer, 504 West 24th St., Austin, 
rexas. 
i 
: 
In Chicago a bunch of disgruntled journalists got together and formed 
the Chicago Journalism Review. $5 a year, 11 East Hubbard Sty 
icago 60611, It constantly exposes the local press in its pettiness, 
shonesty, etc., often making points of national interest in the 
rocess. Orginal cartoons by Mauldin. 
F. Stone’s Weekly is another thing | have never seen in WEC, Stone 
-an old man now, with failing health, so it comes out bi-weekly. He 
las been getting printed in the New York Review, and sometimes 
pears on David Frost, as if something approaching the respect he is 
jue is coming to him at last. 
‘one is the nation’s single greatest living journalist, A former editor 
f Nation, 
he has devoted his life to digging out the stories other 
people can't be bothered with, and playing up what the New York 
mes plays down. His masterful analysis of volumes of raw data have 
ulted in documentary proof of the farce that was the Korean War, 
e Tonkin Gulf Incident (‘’The only thing we know for sure is we 
fired the first shot.’’) and the ‘‘peace dividend’’ which we will never 
One issue of the Weekly alone, analyzing the State Department's 
mous White Paper, was able with their statistics, to take the whole 
ecarious edifice on which the war is based and reduce it to rubble. 
olutely essential to anyone who wants to know what the truth is 
behind the headlines. $5 a year. 4420 29th St. NW, Washington, DC 
Then there are the Laura Ingalls Wilder books. She was a little girl 
who 
grew up 
as a pioneer in Wisconsin, in the Dakotas, and on the 
reat Plains. The 6 volumes increase in difficulty as you go along, as 
the reader grows up. Laura describes carefully how Pa made a log 
in, how he poured bullets, how Ma managed to make food stretch, 
he v butter was churned, how wheat was harvested etc. The stories are 
interesting, warm, funny, human, wise. Not only is there moral truth 
arefully disguised) but historic accuracy and a feel for the crazy kids 
arely in their twenties who packed up and moved west to God 
alone knew where and carved out a country from the wilderness, It 
We sell a large part of our productio;. right here and we prefer this 
to wholesaling because people can see the processes, the tools, the 
buildings and learn what an 18th century pottery was like. We have 
made changes—power instead of kick wheels, a hammer mill to powder 
the clay, and we no longer burn only with wood. But the process going 
on in these log buildings with earth floors and the end product are 
essentially the same. We do wholesale 
an increasing percentage of our 
pottery but direct contact is far more satisfactory. 
' Jugtown is owned by a non-profit corporation, Country Roads, which 
was started by Ralph Rinzler and myself. The corporation has federal 
tax exemption as a cultural and educational organization. We have 4 
apprentices at all times and many young people are interested in 
coming here. Entertainment is self-made, work is vigorous and it’s 
hard to get the kids to go away, 
/ 
Ralph said you may be interested in something 
for the Catalog about 
Jugtown—possibly a summary of all this in letter form, a picture or 
two of work in progress, and a pictures of 4-6 pots with specifications 
so people can order from us. We would like this very much. In fact, 
knowing the Whole Earth Catalog fairly well it seems a natural 
combination. I will send you a salt glaze pot and some shards (please 
be careful in handling the shards. They are very sharp.) so you can 
see the colors. If you would like I can send you a selection of 
photographs (proofs) which will tell you more than I can. 
I do hope that this can work out. We are not a commercial enterprise, 
even though we are selling pottery. It’s never enough to make ends 
quite meet and I’m obliged to raisé funds which I am no good at and 
find distasteful, mostly because the people who have the money to 
give away don’t know what this is all about. Your readers will, A 
chance to sell a quantity of a few pieces direct by mail might just 
give us the backbone we need. At any rate, I hope to hear from you. 
Prices not given. Write for catalog to: 
Jugtown Pottery 
Salt glazes 
Nancy Sweezy 
#13-Vase 
614” wide, 5” high, 3” opening 
Same glazes. 
! 
#34- Bowl 
7” wide, 4” high 
Frogskin, White, Mottled Black- 
| White, Salt glazes. 
#31 - Bell Bowl 
4” wide, 314” high 
| Frogskin, White, Mottled Black- 
White glazes. 
#72 
- Thumb Print 
7¥,” wide, 4” high 
Frogskin, White, Mottled Black- 
White glazes. 
| Also smaller size #32 (not shown) 
64,” wide, 314” high 
Same glazes. 
#14 -Vase 
5” wide, 4” high, 2” opening 
Frogskin, White, Mottled Black- 
White glazes. 
' #9- Chinese Three-footed Paint Brush 
Holder 
4” wide, 4” high 
Same glazes. 
is enough to make you cry with the crazy courage of it, and the lost 
opportunity, since it can never be like that for us. These are absolutely 
the finest books it is possible to give any child, or any grandparent. | 
sent you photos of her once... 
CO jobs again. Send $1 to International Voluntary Services--155 
Connecticut Ave. NW and ask for their book ‘‘Invest Y ourself’ which 
tells how to contact a large number of different agencies who will pay 
subsistence while you help, both in the US and abroad. 
Does anyone know anything about getting books printed cheaply in 
Taiwan or Hong Kong? 
ls someone running a newletter tying together all the composers, poets, 
artists, and filmmakers who are experimenting with cybernetic 
serendipity? Why not?... 
Art Rosenbaum.of Aquarian Research Foundation, 5620 Morton St. 
Philadelphia 19144, will lay.a rap on you about setting up block radio 
stations for neighborhoods, for cheap and easy. Also plants and their 
physical response to people, bad vibes, etc. He’s into trying to raise 
consciousness level by sharing info, communicating etc., 
new institutions and programs (such as the radio trip) etc. Interesting. 
Send a donation if you write to cover his costs... 
Then try the American Polar Society, which is open to all persons 
interested‘in the history and exploration of polar regions. They act as 
a clearing house for information, aids organizations and members of 
polar expeditions, and spreads knowledge of polar regions. They 
publish The Polar Times twice a year, and meet in New York and other 
places. $1 per year. Application forms from August Howard, Secretary, 
98-20 62nd Dr. Apt. H, Rego Park, NY 11374... 
Amex is a. magazine for American expatriates in Canada, PO Box 187 
Station D, Toronto 165, Ontario, Canada, $1 for three introductory 
issues. 
; 
Now I‘m not in Berkeley, so | send my love from Connecticut. 
Tom Collins 
Meriden, Connecticut 
310 - Confederate Cup 
4” wide, 3” high 
Brown, Orange, Buff, Frogskin, White, 
£96 - 
Extra Large Casserole (Coolie top) 
Top diameter 13”, 7” high 
Brown, Orange, Maré Blue, Accident, Buff glazes. 
£90 - 
Platter 
14” diameter, 114” deep 
Brown, Orange, Maré Blue, Accident, Buff glazes. 
##102- Bird House 
614” wide, 842” high 
Brown, Orange glazes. 
John Holt, Champion Letter Writer 
Some miscellaneous items. Among the books coming out this fall, I 
particularly want to recommend Ivan Illich’s CELEBRATION OF 
AWARENESS: A CALL FOR INSTITUIONAL REVOLUTION. 
(Doubleday); Judson Jerome’s CULTURE OUT OF ANARCHY, 
the best about higher education and its reform that I have seen; Larry 
Cole’s, STREET KIDS, a really heartbreaking account of his work 
with the Lower East Side Action Project; and my own WHAT DO WE 
DO MONDAY?, though I will leave it to somebody else to comment 
on more fully, seems to me to break quite alot of new ground. At, 
any rate, I think people will get something from it. Many of your 
§ 
readers will have seen Illich’s articles in THE NEW YORK REVIEW 
OF BOOKS. All of these have been put together in a pamphlet, 
published by the center for educational reform, (2115 South St., NW, 
Washington, DC 20008.) But I think the book, like the man himself, 
will be one of the most important of our times. This guy really sees 
along way down the road. He seems to me a true revolutionary; his 
thinking begins where that of many revloutionaries leaves off. 
This may be more for BIG ROCK CANDY MOUNTAIN than for you, 
- 
but I’ve felt for some time that the best kind of classroom-desk- 
easel-table is one of those demountable drafting tables that you can 
find in many draftsman supplies stores. So, the Dieztgen Co. makes a 
number of small drawing boards, \of various sizes, which kids can hold 
in their laps, sitting on the floor or on chairs, much better than more 
cumbersome class furniture. Also, they come with T squares and 
triangles attached which are handy. 
This is perhaps for Whole Earth and Rock Candy. Many of your readers 
are interested in music and music equipment, and I think schools ought 
to have a good stereo record player, both for popular and classical 
music. For some time the best compact system for the money was the 
KLH 11, but having recently .done a A-B comparison between it and 
the new Sony H-P-155 I have to say I think the latter is better as well 
as cheaper. It has a couple of additional features~you can run an 
additional pair of extension speakers from it and it has a headphone 
jack, But the main thing is I just think it gives better sound. Quite an 
amazing little machine for the money--about $180 unless you can get 
some kind of discount. 
Something quite different. Driving out west this summer I got into 
a conversation in a restaurant with a guy. He had left hts business 
in New Jersey to go for a couple of weeks hunting somewhere. Turns 
out his business is running a body and fender shop, and one of his 
problems is that although he and other shops in his area pay $8.50 
an hour, they can’t find help. He then told me that in San Jose, wages 
for this kind of work run as high as $13.00 an hour. He said that new 
people aren’t going into the craft. Sounds like a fairly good way for 
radicals who have or are interested in getting a needed skill to make 
some bread without selling themselves. Don’t you think? One good 
man doing that kind of work could keep a whole city commune going. 
In general, it seems to me that the needed trades are increasingly 
being abandoned by the sons of the men who practiced them. There 
may be akind of vaccuum here ready for New Life people to move in. 
Certainly in most parts of the country skilled masons are scarce as 
hen’s teeth. Perhaps this is something free schools ought to think 
about. 
This may be more for BIG ROCK CANDY. An outfit called 
Rolatapes in Santa Monica, California, makes some very good gadgets 
for measuring distances along the ground. The best one has a 
telescoping dial which reads up to 1000 feet and tenths of afoot. All 
kinds of useful things to do with that. 
: 
More on books. Harper and Row are bringing out this fall a revised 
and updated editon of Abraham Maslow’s MOTIVA TION AND 
PERSONALITY. Should be well worth reading. Apparently, before 
he died he made a great many tapes of his latest thoughts and ideas 
about psychology, and sometime within the nest year or two this 
material or much of it will be published, so people should keep an eye 
out for it. 
I don’t know what it costs, but has anybody considered Astro-turf 
for city school playgrounds? I heard the other day that somebody had 
used it for a private lawn. It’s not as nice as grass, but a lot of children 
in a small space will beat grass to death, and it sure beats asphalt, 
JOHNHOLT 
i 
BOSTON, MASS. 
