Live Dwellings 
How soon? Houses of living tissue, probably vegetable, The 
walls take up your CO2 and return oxygen. They grow or 
diminish to accomodate your family changes. Add a piece 
ap a Uh vty WW Ape 
ce TANUNNN aes 
Rona 
Genesis 6th Chapter, 18th Verse: 
And the Lord said to NASA: build ye a craft one 
each to attend the orbits of the nine planets that 
they may be preserved in keeping for the coming 
of peace and thought whilst the absence of gentle 
thought confuses and perplexes the earth. Enter 
into this craft your wife’s genes and your brother’s 
and sister’s. And of all living creatures that crawl 
the earth. Place these mechanisms into the craft 
and allow them the instructions for their recovery- 
and your own station will remain on the third 
planet to save it as the thoughts suggest to vou, 
and as I command that you do, And NASA did 
all these things for he knew not whether his 
strength was capable to bring forth his kind 
of the kitchen, wall to the stew pot. House as friend. 
Dweller and dwelling domesticate each. other. Society 
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Structures. 
Age 
8 
OD 
Technological,Checks and Balances 
As the 200th Anniversary of the American Rebellion, 
Declaration of Independence, Constitution, etc. comes by, 
we can expect some useful reappraisal of the splendid old 
instruments. 
They were an astonishing balance of utopian and cynical, 
the Federalist Papers, ready to try something new in a big 
way, and ready to acknowledge and use the 
omnipresence of unenlightened self-interest. 
For politics, for establishing a politically cybernetically 
stable system, theyre still effective. 
But for controlling technology, for stabilizing the economy 
and the drain on the environment, the American 
Constitution hasnt helped much. Neither has anyone 
else’s. Speer’s complaint, Kesey’s complaint, Bateson’s 
* ies ey « 
whatever was to come of their work. 
Edward Szofran 
Philadelphia 
complaint, even Mao’s heavy dicta--are evidence in this 
Supplement 
Fuller suggests that by amassing the technological and 
resource information and computer-relating it, on-going 
solutions will be self-evident. | doubt if that will be 
adequate. 
There are inter-relation forms, formulae, missing. 
Inventions of information structure not yet made. 
Since the early 1800's economics has been fiddling 
around intelligently with self-balancing mechanisms, 
but still hasn’t done the job. Economics by itself is no 
more of a solution than politics by itself. 
/t has got to be acknowledged that technology has some 
self-propelling dynamics of its own. that unless turned on 
themselves will acclerate to destruction like an un-governed 
motor. 
. 
bites 
‘ 
through the torture of ignorance on his planet 
earth. And the prophecy remained this way. And 
the craft was raised up. All to orbit the sun, nine 
ships took their instructions and their cargoes of 
uncertain future into the brilliance of the next 
time, After doing these things commanded, NASA 
went to rebuild the earth-he and his sisters and 
brothers knew that it might continue in the face of 
Joseph Buch 
Toronto 
SS 
Ct 
Ay 
Saying the machine gught to slow down does nothing. The 
machine must be given the ability to address itse/f. 
The whole machine: from which economics, politics, ecology, 
computers, and we...are not separate. 
/f that means new and more encompassing Constitutional 
models, let’s get. cooking. 
All we have so far is the old perpetually recurrent stablizing 
system of internal rivallry. Our technology addresses itself 
by means of war. That’s cool: all systems go in for it. 
Stable systems have rules, however, and accomplishable 
tokens of victory and loss. Our present World War system 
is short on these. 
Perhaps our effort should be to civilize war rather than 
eliminate it. 
—SB ‘71 
1 
