22 
_— se 
MusieMusic 
Bagpipes At Last 
For those who may be interested in bagpipes— 
acquiring them or playing them, there is an excellent 
company in Scotland: 
; 
Hugh MacPherson Ltd. 
17 West Maitland Street 
Edinburgh 12, Scotland 
Importing them yourself is about 4 times cheaper 
than buying one over here. Futhermore, the quality 
is better and the service is extremely courteous 
(although slow. It takes 3 months to get your bag- 
pipe after ordering it) It is worth it however. A full 
sized bagpipe—full mounted in imitation ivory costs 
about $84.52 in American money (at the current 
rate of exchange) (That’s another thing they 
ll do 
for you. They’ll translate their prices into recognizable 
money symbols for Americans) In California, a 
cheap Pakistani imitation Scottish bagpipe costs 
$150.00!!! Since MacPherson’s things are made of 
selected African blackwood and constructed with an 
old fashioned pride-of-craftsmanship, there can be 
no comparison. Their fanciest, a full mounted model 
in H.M. silver either chased or engraved costs 170 
pounds. (let someone else translate that into dollars. 
| asked them for price translation of the low priced 
models.) Furthermore, they even offer a miniature 
bagpipe suited for indoor playing for about $50 
(£22 10 0). They sell also practice changers, 
instruction books, collections of the Ceol Mor, 
maintence accessories and even superfluous goodies 
like highland costumes for performers. They will - 
send you a catalogue (of sorts) if you write them. 
I highly recommend the practice chanter for 
starting. It costs about $8 for the simplest and will 
teach you the notes and let you play tunes. An 
excellent beginners instruction book is the College 
of Piping Tutor Book I, by Seumas Masneill and 
. 
Thomas Pearston. Also order extra reeds with your 
chanter. The plastic types last a long time. 
—Tiny Alice 
Los Angeles, California 
Oldies but Goodies 
The Musical Heritage Society has released over 500 recorded discs 
which offer outstanding performances and unsurpassed engineering. 
The repertoire represents all periods, but with a particualr emphasis 
on Renaissance and Baroque. Over one-half of the music has never 
before been recorded, and there are a considerable number of 
extraordinary sets, such as the complete organ works of Bach (25 discs), 
the complete piano sonatas of Beethoven (11 discs), and all 100 of 
Hay dn’s symphonies (49 discs). The Society even conducts polls of 
its members to receive suggestions for future releases. 
The Society’s records have won more awards than any other American 
record company during the past seven years, and many of their releases 
have won the distinguished Grand Prix di Disque. The sonic 
quality of these discs represents the current state of the recording art 
and are almost never in less than perfect condition. However, in the 
unlikely event that any record proves defective or not to your liking, 
you may return it to the Society for exchange, credit, or refund. As 
an extra bonus, the records are in a polyethylene lined white paper 
sleeve with window labels. The liner notes are never insulting. 
These recordings, all of which are stereo LP’s, are not sold in record 
stores, and consequently are not listed in the Schwann catalogue. 
The price per disc is $2.79, with a flat fee of 60 cents per shipment 
for 
postage. The Society sends, to its members, monthly announcements 
of forthcoming releases, but they are merely announcements: no 
record is sent unless you specifically order it. There is no minimum 
number of discs which must be purchased, no membership fee, and 
no annoying card to return in order to prevent the shipment of 
records. To become a member, you need only write them and request 
their catalogue and monthly announcements. 
The Musical Heritage Society 
1991 Broadway 
New York, New York 10023 
Ron Goldstein 
Oxford, Pennsylvania 
Learn Music Music Music 
Here’s a system for learning to play music: Play one 
phrase over and over, concentrating on always 
repeating it exactly, exactly. Learn from your 
. 
mistakes as you go. The better you get at repeating 
that first phrase exactly each time, the more new 
things you will be able to play. It is the fastest way 
there this week. Next week, too. Try it. If at first 
you don’t succeed, adapt. 
Ron Williams 
ONYX 
NYC 
Ae unan 
—) 
Super Guitars 
Up till about two months ago it would have been 
impossible to even consider listing ourselves in your 
catalog due to the fact that our instruments were 
very highly priced; with a long backlog of orders. 
We felt at that point that we had an obligation and 
committment to people other than the large money- 
making groups and single entertainers (i.e. Bob Dylan, 
The Band, Richie Havens, John Sebastian, Jake 
Holmes, Judy Collins, etc.); so we reorganized the 
shop and started training people in building fine 
quality, handmade guitars. 
We are now in the process of having our catalog 
printed. For the time being we have enclosed a 
description and price list of all our instruments: we 
will try to forward some pictures to you, so that 
you can see and judge for yourselves our high quality 
standard. 
Yours faithfully, 
Michael Gurian 
Gurian Guitars, Limited 
100 Grand Street, 
N.Y., N.Y. 10013 
STEEL STRINGS 
Size 1 
Mahogany sides and back; spruce top; black 
ebony fingerboard; Schaller machine heads; 12 
fret to the body; plays best with light or extra 
light guage strings; price, $250.00 
Mahagany sides and back; spruce top; black 
ebony fingerboard; Schaller machine heads; 14 
frets to the body; plays best with light or medium 
guage strings; price, $325.00 
same as above, but, with rosewood sides & back; 
price, $425.00 
Mahogany sides & back; spruce top; black 
ebony fingerboard; Schaller machine heads; 14 
frets to the body; plays best with medium or 
heavy guage strings; price, $300.00 
Size 3 
Size 3 
Jumbo 
same as above, but, with rosewood sides & back; 
price, $400.00 
Classical Guitars 
cL 1 
~ Mahogany sides & back; European spruce top; 
black ebony fingerboard; Landstorfer machine 
heads, when available; price, $325.00 
Indian rosewood sides and bhck; European spruce 
top; black ebony fingerboard; Landstorfer 
machine heads, when available; price, $425.00 
Jumbo 
CL 2 
Concert model: Brazilian rosewood sides & back; 
best quality European spruce top; black ebony 
fingerboard; Landstorfer machine heads, when 
: 
available; price, $525.00 
Flamenco 
In keeping with the traditixn of the flamenco guitar, I have 
developed a guitar that possesses the brightness and clarity 
of sound sought after by flamenco guitarists. In addition, 
my guitars have the sound projection of a classical guitar. 
For this result, I use specially selected woods for the top, 
back, and sides. If preferred, the traditional Spanish cypress 
would be used. As in the classical models, Peruvian mahogany 
and black ebony are used for the neck and fingerboard. The 
head may be fitted with friction pegs or Landstorfer 
machines. This model also has a handmade rosette. The 
price of the flamenco guitar is $750.00. 
Lutes 
1) Elizabethan: This model is constructed with either 7 or 8 
courses, depending on personal preferences. Woods employed 
are Peruvian mahogany for the neck with black ebony for the 
the fingerboard, curly maple for the boat and spruce for the 
top. Rosettes are designed and handcarved in the traditional 
manner. 
The price for this model is $850.00. 
CL 3 
Sony & Barbara & hot water 
Stereo Discounts 
Neen 
7 
“ 
Did you recently pay full list price for stereo components 
or 
recording tape? If so, you got burned. Next time, a discount 
house can put a comfortable distance between you and the | 
heat. Many discount houses advertise in Stereo Review and — 
HIgh Fidelity, but I’ve narrowed the list to 6 that give the 
© 
lowest prices--which doesn’t mean, of course, that some more 
equally good ones may not spring up. These discount houses, 
by the way, are NOT clubs and don’t charge membership fees 
although there are such clubs dealing in stereo gear. TO my 
knowledge, these clubs don’t match the discounts of the | 
discount houses. The 6 discount houses mentioned above 
are: 
Downtown Audio 
17 Warren Street 
New York, NY 10007 
© 
Dixie Hi-Fidelity Wholesalers 
10530 Detrick Avenue 
Kensington, MD 20795 
Hi-Fidelity Center 
239 East 149 Street 
Bronx, NY 10451 
~ 
Boston Audio Co. 
1 Discount Drive 
Randolph, MA 02368 
Rabsons 57 Street Inc. 
119 West 57 Street 
New York, NY 10019 
Carston Studios 
R.D. 3; Route 7 
aa 
% 
Brookfield, CT 06804 
0 
I’ve personally had satisfactory dealings with the 
eh 
first three. | haven’t ordered from the others, but they offer 
= 
equally low prices. Here as with any purchase, itpaysto. 
check each house’s price on a given component. Some Of 
an 
available discounts follow: 
t 
List Price 
Discount Price 
Component 
Dynaco SCA-80 amplifier, wired 
$249.95 
$165.00 
Shure M44E cartridge 
34.95 
10509 
Superex ST-Pro—B headphones 
49.95 
32.00 
— = ¢ 
Garrard 40B changer with base, 
55.50 
33.48 
ie 
dust cover, less cartridge 
LB. 
Harman-Kardon HK-50 speaker 
95.00 
55.00 
system 
ee 
Watts Dust Bug 
6.50 
4.95 
Certain brands of equipment are fair traded and 
; 
theoretically can’t be sold below list price, but you can some- 
times get around this by ordering a fair-traded component and. 
=a 
a non-fair-traded component together. Discounts are 
ae 
even better on complete systems than on individual 
: 
components. 
In the market for a low-cost stereo cartridge tracking at 2 to 3% grams, — 
such as the Shure M44-7, ADC 220X, Pickering P/AT, or Empire 
are 
909/X? Forget them--you want the Grado FTR at not $24, 95, 
not $19.95, but $9.95 from Grado Laboratories, 4614 Sth Avenue, 
Brooklyn, NY 11220. Ora discount house may have it for $5 to $7. — 
In Stereo’ Review July 1969 survey of cartridges the FTR ramked 
aclose third in sound quality behind the ADC 25 ($100) and 
the Elac STS-444-12 ($69.50), and ahead of cartridges costing up to 
$69.50 (to keep things in perspective, some of the more expensive 
cartridges tracked at lower forces than the FTR). Not having a pile 
of test equipment, I can only add that I’ve been using an FTR fora — 
year and that it does what it’s supposed to. 
Other Grado cartridges are the FTE ($19.95 with elliptical stylus), 
FCR ($25), and FCE ($35 with elliptical stylus). According to Grado, 
the FC series cartridges are assembled more carefully than those of the 
FT series. However, I don’t know of any test reports on them. 
— 
; 
R. Andrews Buc 
Clayton, Mo. 
Tc 
: 
b 
