=a, Prophets are seldom popular men, even when they 
predict correctly. |n the area of economic forecasting 
good men are often frighteningly wrong. Thus, the 
man who claims to know the future is taking a consi- 
derable risk; if he is wrong, he will look like a fool; 
if he is right, everyone will hate him (at least if he 
has predicted hard times). Nevertheless, every man 
has to be a bit of a prophet if he is to survive. 
. There is no way of escaping personal responsibility; 
men must plan, at least to some extent, for their 
economic futures. If that future brings what | am 
fully convinced it must bring, a lot of white collar 
professionals are going to be disappointed, and a lot 
of hobbyists are going to reap very substantial 
economic rewards. 
if the government should face an 
either/or situation of inflation or 
depression, it will choose inflation 
every time. 
America’s greatest economic bugaboo is depression. 
The memory of the 1930's has left an indelible scar 
on the American mind. |t would probably be 
politically safe to say_that no political party, especially 
the party incumbant in the White Housegwill be willing. 
to risk a depression; the results at the polls would be 
too devastating. In short, if the government.should 
face an either/or situation of inflation or depression, 
it will choose inflation every time. There is evidence- 
| believe overwhelming evidence--that indicates that 
this is precisely the dilemma we face today. 
During the final months of President Johnson’s ad- 
ministration, the Federal Reserve System (our 
nation’s central bank) stopped the increase of new 
money coming into the economy. President Nixon 
continued to support the Fed's decision for the first 
year in office. The results were (or should have 
been) predictable: increased unemployment, a dis- 
astrous fall in the stock market, falling industrial 
profits, and decreased tax revenues. |ronically, the 
end of monetary inflation did not bring an end to price 
inflation; people apparently could not bring themselves 
to believe that ‘’tight money’’--high rates of interest- 
and zero monetary inflation would persist. They 
did not believe that President Nixon would pursue 
indefinitely a policy of balanced budgets, reduced 
government 
expenditures, and higher taxes 
(which Is the way you,stop prices from rising). So 
labor and business kept passing on higher and 
higher prices to the consumer; and the man out of 
work, the marginal business, and the self-employed 
laborer found the economic squeeze disastrous. 
INFLATION AND THE RETURN 
OF THE CRAFTSMAN 
It would not be surprising to see the 
incoming President of 1973 forced to 
begin the imposition of price controls 
sometime during his administration. 
The Congress has already granted this 
power to President Nixon, in spite of 
his protests. 
Since last spring, the Federal Reserve System has 
reversed itself. New money is now being injected into 
the economy. The federal government's deficit (the 
difference between income and expenditures) is 
climbing again, and this means the central bank now 
buys government bonds with newly created credit- 
money---monetary inflation. Given the psychology of . 
of Americans in 1970, this will mean price inflation. 
A “reinflation” of the economy is beginning. 
What can we reasonably expect? The cost of living 
index will climb in the 1970's as never before in 
peacetime America. Price inflation is the symptom 
of a previous monetary inflation, and we should 
expect to see prices rise at an increasingly frantic 
clip. When this happens, there is always great 
public pressure put on the government to impose 
price and wage controls. People do not understand 
that rising prices are a symptom of a deeper cause, 
namely, the increase of the money supply (fostered 
primarily , though not exclusively, by federal 
deficits). They call for a suppression of the out- 
ward symptoms. It would not be surprising to see 
the incoming President in 1973 forced to begin 
the imposition of price controls sometime 
during his administration. The Congress has 
. 
already granted this power to President Nixon, in 
spite of his protests. Power once granted is 
generally used sooner or later. 
Many readers will remember the effect of price 
controls during World War ||. There were 
shortages everywhere, and all of these shortages 
were not the exclusive responsiblity of the war 
effort. Anyone who has lived in a foreign nation 
during a period of price controls knows what can 
happen, even in peacetime. Anyone trying to rent 
a decent apartment on Manhattan Island today 
knows the effect of rent controls: heavy demand 
and no supply. Lots of money, but very few 
desirable goods. Since it is more difficult to make 
a profit in controlled industry, labor, capital, and 
raw materials tend to go into the uncontrolled 
industries where greater profits are likely. So the 
market for industrial goods begins to dry up. You 
cannot buy a home appliance easily, and new 
_ industry generally left free in the past has been 
automobiles get scarce, and electrical goods dis- 
appear. And the available goods get shoddier as 
manufacturers are forced to cut costs to make 
ends meet. We are already seeing this to some 
extent, as inflation takes its toll; with price 
controls, these effects on workmanship are ampli- 
fied. 
!f | am correct in my analysis of inflation and in 
my prediction that more inflation is likely, then 
the reader should begin to see what is coming. The 
man who plans carefully at this stage stands to sur- 
vive the price-wage squeeze, the shortages, and the 
defective workmanship that are on their way. The 
hobbyist has one item that will rise in value, will 
be marketable, and will be in heavy demand: 
specialized knowledge. In some cases that know- 
ledge will be so valuable that a hobby may become 
a new occupation for those men who take advantage 
of new conditions. For white collar workers, or 
those associated with heavy industries that will be 
hit hard by the economic controls, their skills in the 
home shop may be more profitable than their skills 
in the factory or office. 
Why should this be the case? Because the official 
lines of supply will be increasingly empty of the 
desired goods and services. The black market---an 
- 
inevitable effect of price controls---will begin to ab- 
sorb the goods most heavily in demand. It always 
has in the past; there is little reason to expect any- 
thing different for the future. Those with power or 
prestige or other goods to trade will absorb the 
supplies, leaving the rest of the population to stand 
in long lines in front of half-empty stores. The 
difference between the demand (at the official, 
legal prices) and supply is where the hobbyist 
enters his glory. One thing which we can expect 
to see is that new household electrical appliances 
and similar manufactured goods will become more 
difficult to obtain. Governments always place price 
and wage controls over those industries that are 
large enough and “‘vital’” enough to be worth the 
effort to control. All industries 
are not equally 
subject to controls. Controls are put on such things 
as mining, steel manufacture, metals of all-sorts, 
electronics, and automobiles. (About the only 
farming: it is a highly competitive market and consti- 
tutes a major voting bloc.) 
Local businesses involved 
in retailing any of these products are faced with a 
man-made crisis: shortages of goods and rising 
wage demands by employees. Capital flows out of 
these areas of the economy and into the so-called 
“Iuxury”’ trades: antiques, art collectiag, coins, stamp: | would therefore expect to see amateur hobbyists 
rare books, rare wines and liquors. All of these in- 
dustries have experienced rapid price increases since 
1965, the year inflation began to be felt by the 
general public. When price controls appear, their 
expansion will be that much greater, as more and 
more people pour a depreciating currency into goods 
that are not under the price controls. 
When price controls are in effect, a 
startling effect is produced: the 
price differential between new and 
old goods begins to narrow. 
If manufactured goods, especially home appliances, 
get scarce, then the home repair expert experiences 
a bonanza. People have to make-do with the old 
washing machine or refrigerator. The day that price 
controls are declared, the intelligent buyer will go 
down and buy every $25-$50 used refrigerator he 
can store. He will buy old broken motors from junk 
stores. The junk store man, if he is smart, will try to 
increase his supplies, holding inventories for as long 
as possible, waiting for the economic boom. It will 
not be long in coming. When price controls are in 
effect, a startling effect is produced: the price 
differential between new and old goods begins 
to narrow. In some cases the differential may even 
shift in favor of the used goods: the used good is not 
under price controls, while the new good is. People 
can bid up prices of used goods in a way that they 
cannot with the new goods. They can buy what they 
want if they are willing to pay---but only in the used 
goods market. If price controls were imposed in 1957 
by 1980 a man might be able to triple his original 
investment. He could do far better if he were a repair- 
man who had bought junk discards to begin with. 
That is a good return on one’s money; the stock 
market will never match it, for controls invariably 
spell the death of blue chip capital stocks; it is 
these industries that are placed under the controls 
first. Controls, by definition, are intended to. 
reduce profits. 
The demand for repairs will skyrocket, but the 
larger unions---plumbing, plastering, carpentry---are 
likely to be placed under wage controls. Being 
more visible, and being organized into a guild, these 
fields will be more easily controlled by government 
boards of officials. The result will be a fantastic in- 
crease in labor's black market, or as it will be called 
(as is called today), ‘“‘“moonlighting.’’ A professional 
will spend as little time as possible on his official 
job, saving his skills and energy for his ‘‘under- 
ground” occupation. Even if the unions escape 
controls, the market for the amateur repairman will 
Anyone familiar with Chinese or Japanese art has undoubtedly at some time ke 
seen pictures of Han-shan; “‘The Master 
Shih-te, ‘‘The Foundling’’—two grotesque little men guffawing in the 
wilderness. 
| used to be fairly poor, as poor goes; 
Today | hit the bottom of poverty and cold. 
Nothing | do seems to come out right; 
Wherever | go | get pushed around. 
| walk the muddy road and my footsteps falter; 
| sit with the other villagers and my stomach aches with hunger. 
Since | lost the brindle.cat, 
The rats come right up and peer into the pot. 
- 
for economic survival may not be those imparted 
An BL dollar is shi 
to taxation: & 
a saved dollar is not. As people begin | 
be 
to understand this basic economic fact, 
they will make use of their own skill, or - 
their neighbor’s skills, to get repairs 
done cheaply. 
TD 
Bis 
There is another factor to consider. A dollar saved is 
a lot more than a dollar earned. An earned dollar is 
subject to taxation; a saved dollar is not. As people 
begin to understand this basic economic fact, they 
will make use of their own skills, or their neighbor's 
skills, to get repairs done cheaply. We can expect to 
— 
see neighborhood service exchanges set up, and woe ~ 
unto the man who does not have a skill to exchange. 
The demand for repair manuals and how-to-do-it 
f 
books will increase, and so will the prices for such 
publications. The smart individual will buy his 10-_ 
year subscription to a home repair magazine the day 
following the announcement of price controls. 
=~ 
Editors of many popular magazines will begin to face | 
basic changes in their economic parameters. Paper 
_ 
costs will either soar or else paper will become very 
en I" 
scarce (due to controls); advertisers will not be willing "3 ln 
to pay high prices for advertising, since all the goods 
they have to sell will.be bought anyway. Men will ad- 
vertise in order to obtain supplies; thus, the money 
— 
will be made in classified advertising, The repair 
journals and the collectors’ journals will reap the 
harvest of these subscriptions, for it will be through — 
information in these hobby publications that men 
will find answers to critical problems. The man with 
a 
specialized knowledge of these markets and these skills 
will be in the driver's seat. 
: 
: 
A te 
pete 
Hobbyists will notice another phenomenon. There m4 
will be a vast new audience for the hobby industries. — 
Being essentially ‘‘luxuries’’, they will be the indus- 
— 
tries free from controls. (The controls are at first 
reserved for ‘'vital’’ industries.) With money to 
ug 
spend and few products to buy, people will begin 
. 
to increase their expenditures on luxuries: travel, 
camping, entertainment, and all-forms of do-it. 
yourself tools and materials. The amateur hobbyist 
_ 
who has amassed considerable knowledge over the 
last few years may find himself a professional, for 
knowledge is not a free economic good. It takes 
time, discipline, and usually money to obtain it. 
establishing local informal schools (or perhaps even 
franchised schools) that would impart skilled 
knowledge at,a price. Neighborhood evening school 
will become common. Some men may have 
' 
specialized libraries that can be made into reference 
— 
libraries at a profit. Where there is heavy demand, 
-some men will find a means of converting such 
demand into personal benefit; Knowledge does not 
come easily; it will not be soldicheaply. 
This has led me to an odd conclusion (for a college 
instructor). The young man who has skills mechani- 
cally would be wise to stay out of college. He 
would be far wiser to get into a trade school, esp- 
ecially if he should have a skill that would not 
require highly specialized machinery. With some 
750,000 young men and women on ‘the college 
campuses today, there will be a glut of people ae 
holding college degrees. In fact, the glut is already 
quite visible. The automatic job for the man with 
the bachelor’s degree is not automatic any longer, 
— 
at least not at the older higher wage. The skilled 
craftsman is about to have his day. The man who ~ 
can produce a thing of beauty or of use through 
his own genius, with simple tools and common 
materials, should find the coming decade ex- 
ceptionally profitable. If he must sacrifice teh 
false prestige of a college diploma in order to 
get such skills, the sacrifice ought to pay off 
in the future--perhaps the very near future. 
The 1970's and the 1980's may well destroy the 
whole economic structure that is based on the 
“organization man’’---the drone who substitutes 
Bee 
activity for production, a glib tongue for knowledge. — 4 
The days of the instant success through college 
J 
: 
are numbered; there are simply too many people 
in college for any monopolistic reward to be 
| 
maintained by holders of the college degree. Men 
with skills and knowledge will continue tobe 
_ 
paid well, but the skills and knowledge required 
by formal college instruction. And the riot con- oe 
; 
ditions are not helping the situation, either. 
Prestige will come once more to the man who can — 
build with his own hands, the creative person, the 
© 
man who possesses operational knowledge of: 
fay 
how simple things work. For that kind of man, prt ae 
bonanza is about to begin. 
Gary North 
History Dept. 
University of California 
Riverside, California 
of Cold Mountain”,-and his friend 
Cold rsasteais 
te, 
100 Poems by the T’ang Poet Hane shan 
Translated by Burton Watson 
_ 
ous 
1962, 70; 118 pp. 
$2.25 
ee 
; 
from: 
a 
Columbia University Press 
440 W. 110th St. 
silat. 
New York, NY 10025 
Pan 
