oe 
; 
Kesey and unidentified blonds, September 1970 
SB 
a Ken Kesey Was A Successful Dope Fiend 
bya 
a 
ae 
. 
Ken Kesey and a small band of the Merry Pranksters were in Ann Arbor 
_USA with the Hog Farm recently. The political paper Argus (708 
Arch Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48104) caught up with him: 
Argus: You want to do an interview? 
Kesey: | hate interviews. I'll tell you about interviews, It's like, well, 
~ there’s no such thing as an underground newspaper. 
Argus: That’s true. A revolutionary newspaper, though, how’s that? 
Kesey: It’s just that the whole form.. every time | get in the paper 
it causes trouble. 
Argus: I read the thing in Good Times about you and it seemed 
to me it was pretty right on. 
Kesey: | know, but it was awful...it’s just awful, you don’t know. 
_ 
_| mean you can be going along, you can be moving like this and a - 
reporter gets out there and suddenly everything is glunk. 
: 
Argus: Well, fuck it, -ain’t a reporter. 
Kesey: Well, | know, but you’re a damn sight close to being one. 
Argus: What I’m saying is... 
Kesey: What do you want to know? 
Argus: Information to give people. 
Kesey: All right, I’m willing to exchange information, but I’m 
warning you, | don’t have much. | mean, | haven't had a new 
thought in years, 
Argus: Well, let’s go for some old ones or something. 
Kesey: Old thoughts...A friend of mine says because the moon just 
; moved into Aquarius and we've just sent a thing to the moon that 
- we're all under the influence of the moon more than we know. In 
fact, that our souls are being eaten by it and it comes to when stuff 
was just living around in puddles millions of years ago and the moon 
goes over it every 28 days and until finally the crystals begin to move 
to it. We just came out of Scorpio in Ohio, where we'd been fighting 
with a bunch of people. 
Argus: What sign are you? 
Kesey: Virgo. 
— 
- Argus: How long have you been travelling with the Hog Farm buses? 
_ Kesey: | haven't. We got a ‘61 Chevy we bought in Cincinatti, and 
_ we're just trying to get back to organize just as tight as we can jump. 
My brother Chuck got a ‘70 Buick.4 gotta go back, cause the 
G 
—creamery needs help. He’s now making yogurt, and what it’s done is 
that it moved him into a whole different economic thing. He’s now 
- gonna have to sell to a lot of new customers that don’t quite have the 
money that the old customers did, but they’re willing to buy newer 
kinds of stuff, like acidolphelous yogurt. That's a bit of information. 
When a baby’s born, there’s a germ in his stomach called acidolphelous 
germ. And it’s in the stomach of every child that’s born and when you 
shoot penicillen, it kills it. And you have to eat it again. Yogurt will 
_almost do it, but not quite. It's the oldest bug in the world. You can 
get it at almost any creamery. So every time you shoot penicillen, 
you kn w, for a cold or something, eat acidolphelous yogurt, and 
you'll be able to digest your food better. 
Argus: You've sort of divorced yourself from politics. 
Kesey: I’ve been nominated for the Schoo! Board , man. 
Divorced myself from politics? 
Argus: Are you going to campaign and all that? 
Kesey: No, I don’t think I’m going to campaign but | think | might 
run. Nominated for the School Board, just heard about that two 
days ago. 
Argus: Well, listen, I’m wondering how you relate to political prisoners 
like John Sinclair or someone who was put away because of what our 
culture’s all about. Are you into things like getting organized to get 
him out of jail and stuff? 
. 
Kesey: (Singing) 
When you walk the streets you will fave’ no cares 
_ If you walk the lines and not the squares 
As you go through life, make this your goal. 
Watch the doughnut, not the hole. 
That’ s where | think the revolution is. 
Argus: I don’t understand that at all. 
Kesey: That you focus as much as you can on the positive and you 
try. to make the world a better place around you as much as you can. 
So much of the problem has been brought about by liberals trying to 
do something over there. 
Argus: John Sinclair ts not a liberal, he’s a revolutionary. 
Kesey: Everybody's a revolutionary, from the first caveman that ever 
came out of a cave and fed a starving neighbor. Right? 
Argus: No, I don’t agree with that. What are you doing that’s 
postive? 
Kesey: Hmmmmm. What am | doing that’s positive? 
Argus: What are you doing that’s positive for the Revolution? 
Kesey: Positive for the Revolution. Shit. Lis.:n, man, the revolution... 
it’s like this. |t didn’t start here and it’s not going to end up here. It 
starts way back here and when it all finally comes to it'll go through 
time like that and all stuff’ll come true. 
Argus: What you doing that’s positive to make people feel that? 
Kesey: We took this little guy named Tony, who’s a little spade without 
a mother. We took him downtown yesterday and bought him a pizza. 
What did you do? 
Argus: So what you're saying is you don’t relate to political prisoners 
or people like John Sinclair. 
Kesey: | relate to people, not issues. 
Argus: I’m hip, but John Sinclair would like to relate to people too, 
but he’s in jail. It’s impossible. 
Kesey: Listen, the skunk cabbage, in Oregon, at this time of year 
smells awful. | just don’t know what to do about it, man. I’ve thought 
about skunk cabbage. |t just smells terrible. You know, it’s down there 
and it smells terrible, But !’m planting flowers. 
Argus: Is that some kind of metaphor about Sinclair or something? 
Kesey: No, it’s just that as long as there’s somebody there who's 
going to say what about this, you can always find it. It’s like a 
microscope looking for a dog turd. You can always find something 
to walk around with a protest sign to keep from having to do anything 
right where you are, 
Argus: I don’t want to protest anything. I want to get Bobby Seale 
and John Sinclair out of 
jail. 
Kesey: | do too, but | didn't put him in jail, man.1 did my 6 months 
and I'm doing all | can do to alleviate the thing that put him in jail. 
Argus: How are you doing that? 
Kesey: Running for the School Board, turning on a lot of people. 
. Argus: What do you turn them on to? 
Kesey: Grass. You can trust grass. 
Argus: Are you going to Washington for the July 4 Smoke-In? 
Kesey: | think so, but I’m not going to advertise it. | think it’s a good 
thing: | think it’s a damn good thing. | don’t think it’s revolutionary. 
| just think it’s sensible. 
Argus: You don’t consider this... 
Kesey: Listen, most of what you're talking isn’t revolutionary, it’s 
just work. What revolutionary is, is to be able...|'tl tell you a good 
story, There was three old Samuri swordsmen arguing about who had 
the sharpest sword. So they proposed a contest, and they went into 
the woods. And this young guy, the guy who brought up the idea of 
the contest in the first place, he went out into the middle of the stream 
and he took his sword and he jammed it hilt down into the sand. And 
he took a piece of rice paper, and put it on the water, and let the rice 
paper float down on the current towards the sword. And it came to 
the sword like this and the sword just cut it in half. 
So the second guy went out there, the older guy, stuck his sword 
down in the thing, put the rice paper in the current. It came down, 
was cut in half, and then came back together, on the other side of the 
sword, 
So the third guy, this very old guy, went out there, old rusty beat up 
sword, He jams it down in the sand, puts his rice paper up there in the 
water in the current, let's it float, and it floated down and came to the 
sword. And it went around it. And went on. 
Revolution, and the new revolution, is just don’t take the gauntlet. | 
mean if you've been in jail don’t let’em push your button. Keep away 
from anger. 
Argus: How're you going to tell that to Huey Newton or the Black 
Panther Party? 
(continued ———) 
CONTENT 
Economics 
5 
Ecology 
How 
Community 
British Columbia, 
Alaska, and 
New Zealand 
20 
21 
24 
28 
MusicMusic 
New Suggestions 
FlyingF lying 
| Other People’s 
Mail 
Complaints 
52 
33 
Item-related 
| 
Information 
34 
36 
38 
40 
Indians 
Announcing: 
Corrections 
Production in 
the desert 
Business 
© 1971 Portola Institute, Inc. 
All rights reserved under Pan-American 
and International conventions. 
exp
dined 
