British Columbia, Alaska, and New Zealand 
Canadian Immigration 
Mother Earth News #6 describes an excellent guide to 
Canadian immigration, available for 5 cents from: 
Montreal Council to Aid War Resisters 
Case Postale 5 
Succ. WSMT 
Montreal.251, Quebec 
Canada 
x 
One quote: “Some immigration offices seem to be running 
their own independent immigration policy.” 
Island Reality—In Depth 
This letter responds to a piece we carried last year about 
the Queen Charlotte Islands off the west coast of Canada. 
The information looks valuable for anyone seriously 
considering land almost anywhere north of Seattle. 
After hearing VERY much about Keith Gilbert’s “Island fantasy—In 
Depth”, the article was finally loaned to us by the local Magistrate 
and editor of the local paper, that we might reply to it. 
First, our qualifications for writing: last summer, we became landed 
immigrants in Canada, from the US. “We” consists of man, wife, 2 
boys, one baby girl, one cat, and a truckload of old farm implements 
and camping gear. We were accepted as immigrants on the basis of 
very straight job skills—-psychiatric aid and computer programer. 
Farming counts only I point on an application. In Sept., Ed came up 
ona survey trip to Queen Charlotte Isl., after we ‘d studied books, 
maps, and gov’t publications. He found a place to live and a job, then 
returned to Vancouver to bring the family up. We’ve worked here, 
bought land, and are trying to move out to it--it’s a bit inaccessible. 
Some statistics about the islands, regarding how to get there: 
Vanéouver to Sandspit via PWA (Pacific Western Airlines) is $40 ONE 
WAY. Prince Rupert to Masset via North Coast Airlines or Trans- 
provincial Airlines (seaplanes) is about $24 ONE WAY. Prince 
Rupert to Masset via Northland Navigation (once weekly) is about 
$16 ONE WAY. These fares are for one person with only a limited 
amount of baggage. A visitor should certainly have enough funds for 
his return trip.and cash for expenses on the island. For further travel 
information, contact British Columbia House, Market Street, San 
Francisco. 
, The population is about 7,000, a bit less than % is Haida (only an 
estimate, I do not have current accurate figures). Masset and Queen 
Charlotte City are the main villages, as each has a hardware store, a 
clothing store, an RCMP detachment, and a high school. There are 
about 5 elementary schools, from Sandspit to Haida Village (Old 
Masset). BC Hydro in most villages; BC Telis available to most of 
the Island. There are grocery stores and/or motels, and places to eat 
in most communities. 
To save some expense on maps, purchase a Graham Island and a 
Moresby Island at scale of 1:250,000 (1” to 4 miles), which shows 
. 
land status. (e.g. privately owned, timber lease or license, crown 
unalienate, Indian reserve, parks, etc.) Later, if you do get interested 
in a particular area, you can purchase the blow-ups of small areas. 
Climate statistics-— Annual Rainfall statistics: Masset, over 60”; 
Sandspit, about 50”; W. Coast of the Charlottes, over 100”. Hours 
of summer (J,J,A) sunshine: about 640. Mean Jan. temp.: 35 degrees, 
(coldest month), mean Aug. temp. 61 degrees (hottest month). In 
: 
other words, it rains a fairly good amount, there’s not much sunshine, 
and although temp.-wise it doesn’t get very cold you feel cold due to 
é 
the high humidity, and it never gets really hot in the summer. Light 
snow in winter. 
About sensible clothing—bring it with you. Two pairs longjohns. 
: 
Good quality woolen clothing, that you can put on and take off in 
. 
layers. It is also extremely windy (gales) in winter, and sometimes 
i 
windy in “summer”. For guys fuguring on working in the woods, 
either in a logging camp or around your own place, a pair 
of leather shoes with metal spikes on the bottom will be useful. A 
very sturdy type of raingear is the double layer of canvas, with 
rubber sandwiched in between jacket and pants (one brand is Pioneer 
Dry Backs, another is Bone Drys). 
Regarding commercial fishing: if you’re not a Canadian CITIZEN 
(landed immigrants are not citizens), you can’t even be aboard a boat 
commercially fishing (unless you’re under 16 years of age). 
Anyone planning to bring a boat up of course would obtain the . 
appropriate charts and tables. 
Livestock can do allright grazing along the beach and in meadows, 
: 
except in winter you will need to provide feed. A flock of chickens 
? 
would provide good egg money. (Predators are the racoon and the 
martin and bear. There are no skunks on the Islands.) In the past, 
beekeeping has been unsuccessful due to sudden weather changes and 
unseasonable weather. Horses, ducks, goats, cows, pigs all do fine. 
Rabbits aren’t so likely. Not much local livestock for sale; would need 
to bring it in. 
C 
There are NOTwild cattle on the island. It is highly illegal to shoot 
any cattle in the Charlottes. If caught, it’s a mighty stiff fine, and you 
will incur the wrath of the various cattle owners and farmers. 
Regarding occupancy of unoccupied buildings: if privately owned 
you will have to contend with the owner, probably rather quickly. 
If owned by the Crown, it’s illegal and can easily be enforced. 
Regarding protein: you can legally shoot deer year round. A new 
arrival should bring a gun for that purpose and promptly get his 
license and tag. The elk are way back, and hard to get. Razor 
Clams are available for the digging and the cleaning, the latter is no 
quick matter. Crab traps can be set at low tides. A pressure canner is 
the only way to safely put up meats and low acid vegetables. Sears 
sells a large one for about $35 (this side of the border, the price 
nearly doubles). 
' 
Regarding gardening: the home vegetable garden is of course practical 
: 
and possible, with a fairly good amount of 
plain hard work applied to 
improving the soil. As obvious from the climate statistics, forget 
about watermellon and other crops requiring a long, hot growing 
_* season. Of course, any surplus of produce would be highly marketable. 
| 
At this time, there is no one here making their living off of farming. 
p 
20 
If you want to be a believable, acceptable person, the easiest way to 
do it is to arrive and REALLY look for work and take it. It’d give you 
cash to get by on while you look about and learn what YOU think of 
the place. Types of work available: logging, construction, hiways, etc. 
The pay is good for the work you do. For chicks, the pay is crummy, 
working as a salesclerk, in the cannery, or as a motel maid. 
Should a landed immigrant apply for Social Assistance, he will quickly 
be escorted to the nearest border. The Dept. of Manpower and 
Immigration feels Canada has a large enough welfare role, without 
taking on the US’s. 
: 
Hudson Bay Co. is. a modern dept. store chain, refers to itself as “The 
Bay”, charges outrageous prices to Indians and does NOT put outa 
catalogue. For general catalogue ordering, there’s Simpson’s-Sears and 
Eaton’s, about the same plastic junk and shoddy clothing as Sears and 
Wards in the States. Cowichan nautral (unbleached) wool 
garments are made by Cowichan women on Vancouver Island and are 
sold at various sporting goods places, and at a stiff price (socks, $5, 
sweater, $40). 
Anyone really interested in the Islands, should read Kathleen Dalyell’s 
book The Queen Charlotte Islands 1774-1966. A large library 
would possibly have it. It is the most comprehensive book on the 
Q.C.1., written by the daughter of an early pioneer of the area. 
The argillite on the Islands belongs to the Haidas. I wouldn’t bank on 
making a living from gold or coal. Jedway and Tasu are tron ore 
operations and are company towns down on Moresby Island. 
Air photos are relatively expensive and cover only a small area. 
There is simply no basis for the remark that “neither the white nor 
the Indian population would make a Negro welcome. ” People of many 
colors and creeds and nationalities have (and are now) lived here in 
harmony with their neighbors. 
T have put off. till last any mention of the Haidas, as Iam reluctant 
(understandably, I hope) to chatter about a people 
Fknow relatively 
little about. Yes, I’ve read a few books giving historical accounts of 
them, seen a bit of their art and even know a few fairly well. But 
their outlook and actions are different, and I 
honestly couldn t 
tell you how. No, you needn’t bother bringing abalone shells and 
blanket buttons, unless you happen to possess a magical time machine 
to take you back in years. No, they don’t go out and procure their 
year’s food in 3 months and live grandly for the remaining 9. The 
women buy groceries at the store and ready-made clothing, and the 
men earn their money in very ordinary ways, many fish and log. And 
no one lives on Laggara, save at the lighthouse (the Navy staffs the 
lighthouses). 
Again, I strongly emphasize the need for a survey trip. If planning to 
camp, have GOOD gear, that really works, to keep you dry, warm, 
and fed. Talk to as many people as you can possibly, but, mainly, 
LISTEN! to what they have to say. After all, they live here and can 
provide much specific and general information. I personally wouldn't 
advise babbling a lot of headtrips, especially regarding communes— 
that scares Islanders, and makes them uptight (mental visions of 
“corrupting my children” and turning on the high school, etc. etc.). 
It’s truly more considerate and lots easier for you to come on slowly 
and easily, seeing just how far community tolerances go. Also many 
people don’t like hitchhikers. Rather than try to change that 
attitude, try to bring your own transportation or RENT a VW (or 
something) from MITCO (Misty Isles Transportation Co., which 
_ 
handles car rentals, a bus going up and down the Island once a day, 
and a ferry from Graham to Moresby). 
: 
Buying private land is expensive, in town or out, accessible or not, 
with or without improvemnets. Sample: 100 X 66’, no improvements, 
6 miles from town about $5000. Crown Land is hard to get, many 
forms, many turndowns, several years wait. The Provincial tax sale 
happens once a year. 
Peace and goodwill and good fellowship to those who do come and the 
the same to those who would rather.read the National Geographic. 
Kitty Wood 
Masset, BC 
B.C. Land | 
We are compiling a hard-core information book which could be 
produced cheaply about land aquisition in British Columbia. Divided 
into 4 parts, the book would cover the following subject matter. 
Section | Procedural Approach to Obtaining Crown Land 
This section is how to, simply and obviously 
as possible. Varied map 
selection Index Maps, Departmental Reference, Air Interim, Mining 
and Forestry Maps, legal descriptions, photo-optical slides, accurate 
measurements of land and water, legal posting, varied leases and 
relative laws, alternative interpretations, filing at the Land Registry 
applications with a few inherent subtleties, cutting survey costs, 
overall lease and purchase expenses. British Colum bia, unlike some 
provinces, is almost-totally unsystematic in its approach to land 
description, a factor which both deters potential Earth-Lords and 
frequently battles registered surveyors. Where systems do exist, we 
explain them. In lesser defined areas the reader is given at least as 
much knowledge as the Land Agent dealing with his claim. 
Section II 
The Lewis Carrolls of the land. Some arcane symbolism 1s perhaps 
threaded throughout the wrtiings of those who inform the public 
upon the ease of acquiring Crown Land. Social realism is abjured. 
We’re less entertaining. In realastic awareness of hard times to come 
we are listing for the survival-oriented roughly half a million acres; 
‘their physical description and actual location. The acreage is listed 
in chart form. We attempt a legal description of each lot or section, 
its elevation, accessability by road or four wheel drive, double water 
source and specific information on each property. This ts all 
divided into ten separate land distincts of B.C. and is the product of 
roughly four hundred maps. 
#, 
oy 
“a 
5 
‘ 
ith 
, 
ripe 
Pr 
a ah) 
a 
ae tg 
ae 
TAS 
Oe ita 
ae 
. 
U 
ee 
yy 
fees ee 
% ae 
f 
Unlike some real-estate flyer “10,000 acres, nothing down, no 
z 
to pay” all the listed land is currently available upon knowledgeab 
application. At this point it might be as well to comment 
that this” 
‘situation will not last-this time next year much of this land might be 
unobtainable, many reasons, why none socially staisfactory, still 
less 
visionary. 
; 
: 
LANlait: 
, 
: 
2th 
Leet RS re 
We’re for recognising any land acquired in a fragment of the universe — 
held in trust for all men. In listing half a million acres we too Gre ttt 
wy 
trust. 
é 
be ay 
ZF 
Section II! [ looked and lo! a mighty farm land came out of the 
West or, Here Come Ol’ Greenthumb Growing Up 
Holy. 
; 
Meet 
oe 
, 
Soil testing, acidity, alkalinity, correction and making arable. If you ~ 
grow, what to, when to, how to. Livestock—-Jesus Joe, are you 
4 
raising minotaurs? Irrigation, climatic factors, conservation measures, 
viable alternatives to current farming procedure, aid from agricultural 
organization, financial information, sea-farming, economics, 
ae 
technology and intangibles. 
Section IV But the moon and sun are Coming here anyway. m 
Me, you, us, them. An enquiry into self and surroundings. Who owes” 
what to when and can I use this to pay. Some problems stated, facts 
cited, theories discussed and visionaries bowed to. World-People’s 
downtown strutting ball. This age on earth. 
: 
Self-conceived? Not quite. No virgin-birth we rather a happy sort of 
- bastard child. Daddy pack tight, go get it. American Whole Earth = ee 
Catologue and GWG jeans, home grown gentle soul of Canadian 
Earth Almanac. 
oe 
a 
We have illustrators, would like to include letters from a few recognised 
authorities, some quotations. Know what we'd like to see but the 
. 
house opposite gets torn down in 30 days, Dialogue. But it’s the only 
— 
Newfoundland structured style house extant on the North West coast. 
— 
Reply. Yes, guess it'll take all day to knock down. 
— 
a: 
a2 
The book is happening and will be ready at latest by. the end of Jan., _ 
perhaps sooner. Obviously to tout it at the moment is ridiculous. 
Equally obvious the book will be popular in underground circles in 
both Canada and the USA (future issue of Rolling Stone mentions 
our project) and followed closely by general public interest in 
British Cloum bia. In addition we have access to TV and radio 
programming in Vancouver and Victoria and have many friends 
across the province. We raise some’ legal points, challenge a few beliefs 
relevant to British Columbia and Canada advocating a meaningful life- 
style opposed to mere consumerism. Doubtless, we shall be a focus of 
Provincial Government attention as people quote us in applying for 
their land. 
. 
- 
That’s what we’re about. Many people, much work to do. We need 
alittle help and are applying in a few directions. If we interest you and 
directions can be realised together we'd like it. 30 days. Please let us 
— 
know soon. 
Yours respectfully, 
Paul Phillips 
Statement of Intent 
17 Boyd Street 
, 
Victoria, B.C. 
3 
2 
B.C. Land 2 
I’ve been intending to write you about land in southern B.C. — 
We first tried Vancouver Island and found the government 
cooperative but not helpful, i.e. they’d answer a specific 
question but never tell you more than you asked. And 
most important they were very hesitant about allowing 
i 
access to their land status maps, which are the only practical 
— = 
means of learning what land is still available. Private sources 
are high priced, as the land market is in a speculative stage. 
_ The interior of southern B.C. is a different story. We 
found the small town land offices generally helpful. We 
filed on 80 acres (40 per person so you don’t have to 
“cultivate”, i.e. chop down a minimum of 40% of the trees 
to get title). They still /ease to non-canadian citizens for 
a small annual fee and after 5 years (assuming you become 
a citizen) you can purchase. Even citizens have to lease/ 
develop for 3 years before they can get title, so this isn’t so S 
bad. They quote-you a price on the land when you first 
“+ 
make the deal. You can buy at this price anytime between 
the 5th and 10th year. You can pay % of the purchase 
price each year after you decide to buy (for 4 years). 
=A 
From what | gather, prices are quite reasonable, because they 
3 
want the land to be developed. You have to wait about? 
year from the time you file, until your application is granted _ 
(we're still waiting). Then you must pay for a survey ($100- 
$500) conducted by a B.C. land surveyor. I’ve left out a 
t 
few details for the sake of brevity, but this is the jist of 
obtaining land presently. ‘‘Our place” is on a dirt road 45 
minutes from town. 
No neighbors except for deer, elk, bear, 
birds, streams and a mine (damn it! about one mile away). 
if 
It’s in a valley flanked by 10,000’ peaks: beautiful, cold, clean 7 
oR 
Peace 
Kenny Rothstein 
Tax Land, hm 
; 
Recently read of H.M. Dignam(tax sale service)in your supplement. - 
It was indicated in the article that this was a good source of ‘“‘cheap” 
land i.e. buy at or near amount of past-due taxes owed onland. 
—~ 
After having read several of Dignam’s “catalogs” andhaving 
investigated government “tax” sales in British 
Columbia, I can only 
come to the conclusion that this is not so. In B.C. you must attend 
= 
the annual government auction in Victoria to bid on land that has oa ? 
ee to the government because of unpaid taxes (that’s another 
— 
story). 
dy 
Femmes on 
It appears that Dignam lists in its catalog land that it has successfully. Hh 
obtained at such auctions. The price given 
in the catalog is, therefore, 
— 
iF ES 
-. Happiness. 
Oo 
36 
: 
Bruce G. Moseley 
’ 
‘og 
‘ 
Prince George, B.C. 
i 
2 a 
Me 
; as 
vis 
ha 
© 
- 
2 
Pi 
+ 
P 
