Fy 
heh mp 
oh 
aoe 
INVOCATION: 
Joy To The World 
“If God were to appear to starving people, he would 
not dare to appear in any other form than food.” 
—Mat Ghandi 
Given that there are world-wide organizations to aid 
and comfort the planet’s sick and starving. The Red 
Cross sucks. Dollars do not go for doughnuts, but 
for easy chairs, postage stamps and swimming pools. 
charity. 
We feel the community has lost faith in beaurocratic 
The Hog Farm now has two buses headed for Pakistan 
and India. 40 people from 7 countries. Some kind of 
medicine show with real medicine and two live doctors. 
; 
Our greatest show is dinner, accompanied with music, 
much love and trimmings as rich as our combined 
nin 
imaginations. 
Every dollar you send will enter a stomach as food. 
We ask for your trust and your bread. If you can dig it, 
send what you can to: 
Earth People’s Stomach 
Project ONE---the body politic 
1380 Howard St. 
San Francisco, Calif. 94103 
[415] 626-4630 
It will be forwarded to the Hog Farm Earth Peoples 
Park Mobile Life Support Unit in the field............... 
World Citizens 
While retaining their own nationality, those who register as World 
Citizens 
RECOGNIZE THAT: 
1) The technical unity of the world, the growing economic inter- 
dependence and the clashing political rivalries have awakened the 
conscience of Man to his right to express his responsibility and his 
Sovereignty on a world level 
2) Sovereign states, constitutionally limited to the defense of their 
particular interests are incapable of protec ting and satisfying the 
interests and needs now common to all men; in fact, they have become 
incapable of defénding their own legitimate interests. 
3) Only a world authority deriving its powers directly from the people 
of the world can give the necessary priority to these common needs 
and interests and provide their effective defense and organization. 
WORLD CITIZENS DECLARE THEIR DUTY TO BE: 
1) To recognize all men as fellow-citizens of the world, whatever their 
race, colour, political belief, their religion or their nationality. 
2) To accept their responsibility as members of the world community 
to contribute, by whatever means they may choose, to the development 
of world citizenship and the establishment. of world law. 
CLAIM THE RIGHT 
1) To receive a World Citizen card as a sign of their sense of moral and 
political obligation toward all men and as proof of registration as a 
voter (a requirement in several countries for national elections) for 
world elections. 
2) To delegate a part of their sovereignty to a world authority and to 
elect their representative directly to a People’s World Convention. 
38 
Peace to All Beings 
Detach 
here 
WORLD CITIZENS REGISTRATION 
-IF YOU WISH TO BECOME A WORLD CITI- 
ZEN mail this section with $2 registration fee 
to receive your identity card — available in 
English, 
French, 
German, 
Spanish, 
Greek, 
Italian, Dutch, Swedish and Esperanto — fill 
out this form and return it to: 
UNDERSCORE 
; 
an 
LANGUAGE 
U.S. Registry of World Citizens 
DESIRED 
c/o James Mundstock 
P.O. Box 27044 
San Francisco, California 94127 
If possible, include passport size photograph 
— WRITE IN BLOCK CAPITALS 
Last Name 
First Name 
Birthplace and date 
Nationality 
Full 
Occupation 
Address 
Zip 
Add your signature on reverse side 
Announcin 
We Keep Hearing About CIDOC 
Though your stated purpose is more inclined toward 
— 
independent learning than formal schools, | would like to 
2 
recommend to you the CENTRO INTERCULTURAL DE 
DOCUMENTACION (CIDOC) in Cernavaca, Mexico. This 
school would, | think, provide an excellent base for those 
= 
wishing to understand the third world role of Latin America. 
__ 
CIDOC is actually divided into 2 parts: an intensive Spanish 
_ 
language training school and a free form “Institute for 
Contemporary Latin American Studies” which includes 
many areas from Agrarian Reform to Youth in Cuba, 
; 
Courses are taught mostly in English by men like Ivan lich 
(who helped found CIDOC), Paul Goodman, John Holt, 
Herbert Kohl, and Edgar Friendenberg. To quote from baie 
catalogue: 
Cidoc is not a university, but a meeting place for humanists 
whose common concern is the effect of social and ideological — 
change on the minds and hearts of men. It isasettingfor 
understanding the implications of social revolution, not an- by. 
instrument for promoting particular theories of social action. 
© 
It is an environment for learning, not headquarters for =~ f 
activist planning. The main context of CIDOC is conta eae 
y 
Latin America. 
Cost by American standards is not great ($135 per Orrin ‘for se 
the language course---4 months are recommended for fluency, 
_ 
and $30 for each course plus $25 registration fee) Living 
— 
quarters are'up to. you, though there is a service which can 
_ 
help you locate all types of arrangements from a room with 
a Mexican family to “Hawaiian Suites’ with heated swimming 
pools. Interest free loans are available to any student who has 
been registered for at least one month and who states in writing, 
‘ 
that he can’t continue:in school without one. 
Cuernavaca is a beautiful place, though somewhat ofa 
retirement area for large numbers of American executive 
types and their Mexican counterparts. It is one hour by car 
from Mexico City with its fantastic museums (esp. modern — 
art and anthropology) and also within a couple hours drive” 
from the finest scenery in central Mexico (around Taxco). 
The town itself is an old colonial capital noted for a constant 
spring like climate and such sights as the crumbling garden — 
of Maximillian and Carlotta and a Diego Rivera mural:on one 
side of the provincial assembly building. Mexico as a whole. 
is a warm friendly CHEAP place once you get aday’s drive 
from the border. | have not actually attended the schoolso 
| cannot attest to how CIDOC lives up to its purpose, but its 
credentials are impressive. An informative, minimal bullshit — 
catalogue is free by writing: 
CIDOC 
APDO. 479 
; 
Cuernavaca, Mexico~ 
Sincerely, 
John Carson Graves 
Greensboro, NC 
REGISTRATION FORM 
I hereby apply for registration as a WORLD - 
CITIZEN in the INFERNATIONAL REGISTRY, — 
Paris, France, and desire to add this highest 
degree of citizenship to my actual nationality — 
, 
I wish to receive the 
2 
WORLD CITIZEN IDENTITY CARD stating — 
my desire to recognize my responsibilities as a8 
a member of the World Community and to par- — 
ticipate in the election for a Peoples’ Yoel a 
Convention. 
Date: 
Place: 
DON’T 
FORGET 
TO 
SIGN 
BALLOT 
#1 RETURN 
WITH 
ORDER 
FOR 
MORE 
BALLOTS 
Signature of applicant: 
AND 
SEE OTHER SIDE FOR ADDRESS OF ; 
U.S. REGISTRY 
