4 
et ed 
Oe 
oe 
Indians 
Indian Books 
1f you haven't previously listed this Source, you readers who are into 
the American Indian Thing may find it useful: 
' MacRae’s Indian Book Distributors 
1955 Creekside Road 
Santa Rosa 
Calif, 95405 
They stock over 400 books on the subject, including lots of reprints 
and valuable Source material, out-of-print stuff, and almost all recent 
publications. I’ve had no dealings with them by mail, yet, at several 
Indian and. Hobby shows they've been efficient and helpfully chatty, 
and their prices seemed reasonable (insofar as ANY book prices 
_ 
can seem reasonable to us old fogeys who were children of the 
Great Depression). 
Unfortunately, they’re too busy to publish a catalog, but have (or can 
probably obtain) almost any specific title, and can suggest items in 
particular areas, (1 gather that they're in the business, like yourselves, 
because they like it a lot; like many Indian Traders, they may operate 
from their home, and seem often to be On The Road, so if you plan 
to visit, it might be a good idea to phone [707] 542-3888 first.) 
Best, 
Don Fitch 
Covina, Cal. 
Nh, 
Black Elk Continues, and Akwesasne Notes 
While working on a reservation in Montana there are several 
things | have come across that might be of interest to you. 
The best is SACRED PIPE. This is by Black Elk of BLACK 
ELK SPEAKS only this book was recorded by Joseph Brown. 
(University of Oklahoma Press 1953---$3.75) He describes in 
detail 7 Oglala Sioux rites. It is the best book on Sioux 
religion available in terms of its detailing and authenticity. 
Brown has footnoted it extensively which really helps. In the 
beginning of the book Black Elk states: 
“Perhaps it may be and this is my prayer that, through our 
sacred pipe, and through this book in which | shall explain 
what our pipe really is, peace may come to those peoples 
who can understand, an understanding which must be of the 
heart and not of the head alone.”’ “| have wished to make 
this book through no other desire than to help my people in 
understanding the greatness and truth of our tradition, and 
also to help in bringing peace upon the earth, not only among 
men, but within men and between the whole of creation.” 
The second item is the AKWESASNE NOTES. This newspaper 
contains news, stories, etc. gathered from all over the country. 
I’ve only seen 2 issues but they are really quite good. Its 
published in Rooseveltown, NY 13683 (Box 435). Newstand 
price is 50 cents and subscription rate is by donation. 2 other 
papers I’ve heard of but have not seen are Warpath out of San 
Francisco and Tripe 
& Guts from? From what | hear they are 
much more militant than AKWESASNE NOTES. 
Emily Kramer 
Poplar, Montana 
Worn Wg STAN 
great gelINg MIXIna CLA 
on 
yi 
% 
pi 
WA 
é 
; 
TTT 
Dr ONT QI Gra Yon gray Or 1, ie 
Sky huy 
Cloud bow | 
Mud becomes mud 
Creating lay = 
4 
Institute of American Indian Arts in Santa Fe 
A vyroyeé — 
Indian Buff Pamphlets 
A series of booklets with how-to info and worshipful flavor, 
from: 
Adolf Hungry Wolf 
P.O. Box 1424 
Golden, British Columbia 
Canada 
SB 
’64 
