; 
“If this identity between mental and evolutionary 
| 
units is broadly right, then we face-a number of 
shifts in our thinking.” 
Gregory Bateson 
“Form, Substance, and Difference” 
1970 Alfred Korzybski Memorial 
; 
Lecture given on January 9, 1970 
: 
Sponsored by the Institute of General Semantics. To be published 
in full in General Semantics Bulletin No. 37, 1970 by the 
Institute of General Semantics, Lakeville, Conn. 06039. To be 
: 
published in 1971 and sent to Members of the Institute. Cost of a 
single issue: $4.00 
Let us start from the evolutionary side. It is now 
empirically 
clear that Darwinian evolutionary theory contained a very great 
q 
error in its identification of the unit of survival under natural 
; 
selection. The unit which was believed to be crucial and around 
which the theory was set up was either the breeding individual 
or the family line or the sub-species or some similar homogeneous 
set 
of conspecifics. Now | suggest that the last 100 years have 
demonstrated empirically that if an organism or aggregate of 
Organisms sets to work with a focus on its own survival and 
thinks that that is the way to select its adaptive moves 
its’’progress’” ends up with a destroyed jenvironment. If the 
Organism ends up destroying its environment, it has in fact 
destroyed itself. And we may very easily see this process 
carried to its ultimate 
reductio as absurdum in the next 20 
{ 
years. The unit of survival is not the breeding organism, or the 
family line, or the society. 
The old unit has already been partly corrected by the population 
geneticists. They have insisted that the evolutionary unit is, in fact, 
not homogeneous. A wild populationof any species consists always 
of individuals 
whose genetic constitution varies widely. In other 
words, potentially and readiness for change is already built into 
the survival unit. The heterogeneity of the wild population is 
already one half of the trail-and-error system which is necessary 
for dealing with environment. 
The artificalliy homogenized populations of man’s domestic 
animals and plants are scarcely fit for survival. 
And today a further correction of the unit is necessary. The 
flexible environment must also be included along with the flexible 
organism because, as | have already said, the organism which 
destroys its environment destroys itself. The unit of survival is a 
flexible organism-in-its-environment. 
Consider a tree and a man and an axe. We observe that the axe flies 
through the air and makes certain sorts of gashes in a pre-existing cut 
in the side of the tree. |f now we want to explain this set of 
phenomena, we shall be concerned with differences in the cut face 
of the tree, differences in the retina of the man, differences in his 
central nervous system, differences in his efferent neural messages, 
differences in the behaviour of his muscles, differences in how the 
axe flies, to the differences which the axe then makes on the face of 
the tree. Our explanation (for certain purposes) will go round and 
round that circuit. In principle, if you want to explain or under- 
stand anything in human behaviour, you are always dealing with 
* 
total circuits, completed circuits. This is the elementary cybernetic 
thought. 
The elementary cybernetic system with its messages in circuit is, in 
fact, the simplest unit of the mind; and the transform of a difference 
travelling in a circuit is the elementary idea. More complicated 
systems are perhaps more worthy to be called mental systems, but 
essentially this is what we are talking about. The unit which shows 
the characteristic of trial and error will be legitimately called a 
mental system. 
But what about ‘’me’’? Suppose | am a blind man, and | use a 
stick. | go tap, tap, tap. Where do J start? |s my mental system 
bounded at the handle of the stick? Is it bounded by my skin? Does 
it start halfway up the stick? Does it start at the tip of the stick? But 
these are nonsense question. The stick is apathwayalong which trans- 
formers of difference are being transmitted. The way to delineate the 
system is to draw the limiting line in such a way that you do not cut 
any of these pathways in ways which leave things inexplicable. If 
what you are trying to explain is a given piece of behaviour, such as 
the locomotion of the blind man, then, for this purpose, you will 
need the street, the stick, the man; the street, the stick, and so on, 
round and round. 
"64 
—SB 
But when the blind man sits down to eat his lunch, his stick and its 
messages will no longer be relevant--if it is his eating that you wants 
to understand. 
And in addition to what | have said to-define the individual mind, | 
think it necessary to include the relevant parts of memory and data 
‘banks’. After all, the simplest cybernetic circuit can be said to have 
memory of a dynamic kind--not based upon static storage but upon 
the travel of information around the circuit. The behaviour of the 
governor of a steam engine at Time 2 is partly determined by what it 
did at Time 1--where the interval between Time 1 and Time 2 is that 
time necessary for the information to complete the circuit. 
We get a picture, then, of mind as synonymous with cybernetic 
system--the relevant total information-processing, trial-and-error 
completing unit. And we know that within Mind in the widest sense 
there will be a hierarchy of sub-systems, any one of which we an call 
an individual mind. 
F 
But this picture is precisely the same as the picture which | arrived 
at in discussing the unit of evolution. | believe that this identity is 
the most important generalization which | have to offer you tonight. 
{n considering units of evolution, | argued that you have at each 
step to include the completed pathways outside the protoplasmic 
aggregate, be it DNA-in-the-cell, or cell-in-the-body, or body-in-the- 
environment. The hierarchic structure is not new. Formerly we 
talked about the breeding individual or the family line or the taxon, 
and so on. Now each step of the heirarchy is to be thought of as.a 
system, instead of a chunk cut off and visualized as against the 
surrounding matrix. 
i 
This idenity between the unit of mind and the unit of evolutionary 
survival is of very great importance, not only theoretical, but also 
ethical. 
Jt means, you see, that | now localize something which | am calling 
“Mind” immanent in the large biological system--the ecosystem. Or, 
if | draw the system boundaries at a different level, then mind is 
immanent in the total evolutionary structure. If this identity 
between mental and evolutionary units is broadly right, then we 
face a number of shifts in our thinking. 
First, let us consider ecology. Ecology has currently 2 faces to it: the 
face which is called bio-energetics-the economics of energy and 
materials wihtin a coral reef, a redwood forest, or a city-and 2nd, 
an economics of information, of entropy, neg-entropy, etc. These 2 
do not fit together very well precisely because the units are 
differently bounded in the 2 sorts of ecology. In bio-energetics it is 
natural and appropriate to think of units bounded at the cell 
membrane, or at the skin; or of units composed of sets of conspecific 
individuals. These boundaries are then the frontiers at which 
‘measurements can be made to determine the additive-subtractive 
budget of energy for the given unit, In contrast, informational or 
entropic ecology deals with the budgeting of pathways and of 
probablity. The resulting budgets are fractionating (not subtractiye). 
The boundaries must enclose, not cut, the relevant pathways. 
Moreover, the very meaning of ‘‘survival’’ becomes different when we 
.« 
stop talking about the survival of something bounded by the skin 
and start to think of the survival of the system of ideas in circuit. 
The contents of the skin are randomized at death and the pathways 
within the skin are randomized. But the ideas, under further 
tansformation, may go on out in the world in books or works of 
art. Socrates as a bio-energetic individual is dead. But much of him is 
still alive as a component in the contemporary ecology of ideas. 
It is also clear that theology becomes changed and perhaps renewed. 
The Mediterranean religions for five thousand years have swung to 
— 
and fro between immanence and transcendence. In Babylon, the gods 
were transcendent on the tops of hills; in Egypt, there was god 
immanent in Pharoah; and Christianity is a complex combination 
of these two beliefs. 
The cybernetic epistemology which | have offered you would suggest 
@ new approach. The individual mind is immanent but not only in 
the body. It is immanent also in pathways and messages outside the 
body; and there is a larger Mind of which the individual mind is 
only a sub-system. This large’, Mind is comparable to God and is 
perhaps what some people mean by ‘‘God”, but it is Still immanent 
in the total interconnected social system and planetary ecology. 
Freudian psychology expanded the concept of mind inwards to’ 
include the whole communication system within the bod» -the 
automatic, the habitual and the vast range of unconscious process. 
What | am saying expands mind outwards. And both of these changes 
reduce the scope of the conscious self. A certain humility becomes 
appropriate, tempered by the dignity or joy of being part of some- 
thing much bigger. A part--if you will--of God. 
|f you put God outside and set him vis-a-vis his creation and if you 
have the idea that you are created in his image, you will logically and 
naturally see yourself as outside and against the things around you. 
And as you arrogate all mind to yourself, you will see the world 
around you as mindless and therefore not entitled to moral or 
ethical consideration. The environment will seem to be yours to 
; 
chee 
Te 
1 
if at 
es 
exploit. Your survival unit will be you and your folks 
or conspecifics 
against the environment of other social units, other races and the 
brutes and vegetables. 
. 
. 
at 
If this is your estimate of your relation to nature and you have an 
advanced technology, your likelihood of survival will be that of a 
| 
snowball in hell. You will die either of the toxic by-products of - 
: 
your own hate, or, simply, of over-population and over-grazing. The © 
raw materials of the world are finite. 
Font 
fr 
If | am right, the whole of our thinking about what we are and what 
other people are has got to be restructured. This is not funny, and! 
do not know how long we have to do it in. If we continue to operate 
on the premises that were fashionable in the pre-cybernetic era, 
and which were especially underlined and strengthened during the 
Industrial 
Revolution, which seemed to validate the Darwinian unit — 
of survival, we may have twnety or thirty years before the logical 
_ 
reductio ad absurdum of our old positions destroys us. Nobody 
| 
knows how long we have, under the present system, before some dis- 
aster strikes us, more serious than the destruction of any group of 
~ 
nations. The most important task today is, perhaps, to learn to 
; 
think in the new way. Let me say that | don’t know how to think 
that way. Intellectually, | can stand here and | can give you a 
reasoned exposition of this matter; but if | am cutting down a tree, 
| still think “Gregory Bateson” is cutting down a tree. J am cutting 
down the tree. Myself is to me still an excessively concrete object, 
different from the rest of what | have been calling ‘mind’. 
r 
The step to realizing--to making habitual--the other way of thinking- 
— 
so that one naturally thinks that way when one reaches out for a 
glass of water or cuts down a tree--that step is not an easy one. 
And quite seriously, | suggest to you that we should trust no policy 
decisions which emanate from persons who do not yet have that 
habit. 
i 
There are experiences and disciplines which may help me to imagine 
what it would be like to have this habit of correct thought. Under 
LSD, | have experienced, as have many others, the disappearance of 
the division between self and the music to which | was listening. The 
— 
perceiver and the thing perceived become strangely united into a 
: 
single entity. This state is surely more correct than the state in which 
| 
it seems that “l hear the music.’’ The sound, after all, is Ding an sich, 
but my perception of it is a part of mind. 
* 
\t is told of Johann Sebastian Bach that when somebody asked him 
how he played so divinely, he answered, “’| play the notes, in order, 
as they are written. It is God who makes the music.”’ But not many 
of us can claim Bach's correctness of epistemology--or that of William 
Blake, who knew that the Poetic Imagination was the only reality. 
The poets have known these things all through the ages, but the 
= 
rest of us have gone astray into all sorts of false reifications of the 
“self’’ and separation between the ‘‘self’’ and ‘experience’, 
For me another clue--another moment when the nature of mind was 
for a moment clear--was provided by the famous experiments of 
Adelbert Ames, Jr. These are optical illusions in depth perception. 
As Ames’ guinea pig, you discover that those mental processes by 
which you create the world in three-dimensional perspective are 
within your mind but totally unconscious and utterly beyond 
ie 
voluntary control. Of course, we all know that this is so--that 
: 
mind creates the images which~-‘‘we” then see. But still it isa 
profound epistemological shock to have direct experience of this 
which we always knew. 
Please do not misunderstand me. When | say that the poets have 
always known these things or that most of mental process isun- 
conscious, | am not advocating a greater use of emotion or a lesser 
use of intellect. Of course, if what | am saying tonight is 
_ 
approximately true, then our ideas about the relation between. 
thought and emotion need to be revised. If the boundaries of the 
ego are wrongly drawn or even fictitious, then it may be nonsense 
to regard emotions or dreams or our unconscious computations 
of perpective as ‘‘ego-alien’’. 
; 
ee 
We live in a strange epoch when many psychologists try to “humanize” 
— 
their science by preaching an anti-intellectual gospel. They might, as 
sensibly, try to physicalize physics by discarding the tools of mathe 
matics. 
. 
By 
ae 
| 
It is the attempt to seperate intellect from emotion that is 
, 
monstrous--and dangerous--to attempt to separate the external mind 
from the internal. Or to separate mind from body. 
: 
“ 
e 
= 
Blake noted that ‘A tear is an intellectual thing’’, and Pascal asserted 
: 
that ‘’The heart has its reasons of which the reason knows nothing.” 
We need not be put off by the fact that the reasonings of the heart 
(or of the hypothalamus) are accompanied by sensations or joy or 
grief. These computations are concerned with matters which are 
vital, to mammals, namely, matters of relationship, by which | mean 
love, hate, respect, dependency, spectattorship, performance, 
m7 
dominance, and so on. These are central to the life of any mammal 
and | see no objection to calling these computations “thought”, 
though certainly the units of relational computation are different 
from the units which we use to compute about isolable things. 
But there are bridges between the one sort of thought and the other, 
and it seems to me that the artists and poets are specifically concerned 
with these bridges. It is not that art is the expression of the 
unconscious, but rather tha t it is concerned with the relation 
between the levels of mental process. From a work of art it may be 
possible to analyse out some unconscious thoughts of the artist, but 
| believe, that for example, Freud’s analysis of Leonardo’s 
“Virgin on the Knees of St. Anne” precisely misses the point of the 
whole exercise. Artistic skill is the combining of many levels of mind- 
unconscious, conscious and external--to make a statement of their 
— 
combination. It is not a matter of expressing a single level. 
Similarly, !sadora Duncan, when she said, “If | could say it, | 
would not have to dance it,’’ was talking nonsense, because her 
dance was about combinations of saying and moving. 
Indeed, if what | have been saying is at all correct, the whole base 
of aesthetics will need to be re-examined. !t seems that we link 
feelings not only to the computations of the heart but also to 
. 
computations in the external pathways of the mind. Itiswhenwe 
recognize the operations of creatura in the external world that we 
ss 
are aware of “‘beauty” or ‘ugliness’. The ‘primrose by the river brim” 
__ 
is beautiful because we are aware that the combination of differences 
_ 
which constitutes its appearance! could only be achieved by 
; 
information processing, i.e., by thought. We recognize another 
mind within our own external mind. 
And last, there is death. It is understandable that, in a civilization 
oe 
which separates mind from body, we should either try to forget 
a 
death or to make mythologies about the survival of transcendent 
mind. But if mind is immanent not only in those pathways of 
t 
Pe 
information which are located inside the body but also in 
paeN, 
external pathways, then death death takes on a different aspect. 
My 
The individual nexus of pathways which | call “me” is no longer — 
“a 
so precious because that nexus is only a part of a larger mind. 
as 
The ideas which seemed to be me can also become immanent in 
you. May they survive-if true. 
. 
: 
