a 
ee 
Se 
a 
ne 
ee 
ee 
a 
ee 
ge 
ee 
eee 
eee 
Business. 
The LAST CATALOG: Selling the Distribution 
“With their mouths open, and hands half way to their pocketbooks...” 
AGENT'S REPORT 
As best | can remember, the first serious rap about publication of the 
last WHOLE EARTH CATALOG happened in January 1970. 
Stewart, J.D., Don Burns and | rapped about the end of the CATALOG 
and some of the implications of that. WHOLE EARTH had just come 
through the national spotlight via Time magazine and Esquire and the 
others. | guess “What am | gonna do” was very much On Stewart's 
mind then. At this rap, the concept of a special distribution began 
to evolve in our heads. 
Book People was just beginning its “‘national distribution” scheme for 
advertising California publishers to retail stores all around the 
é 
country by mail-order catalog. The standard distribution practice 
is to hire a salesman who regularly visits stores in his “territory”. It’s 
a lot cheaper not to use salesmen, but how successful could that be? 
Would people read our catalog, find W.E. and order? The best estimate 
we got claimed we could be up to 60% as effective without salesmen 
as with. Our thinking at this early date was to use Book People’s mail- 
order distribution system as long as it worked, but at any rate to shift 
distribution of the last Catalog to a major publisher and take advantage 
of their salesmen’s efforts. Later, as the year progressed and we could 
see that the Book People scheme was working and the W.E. was growing 
in circulation and sales, we saw these early plans borne out and con- 
firmed rather than changed. 
It was June, after publication of the Spring 1970 issue, before Burns 
and | again rapped with Stewart and J:D. about distribution of the last 
CATALOG. The question now was how to go about finding the 
major publisher best suited to W.E.’s needs and when to proceed on 
this quest. | suggested that Stewart use an ‘‘agent’’ who would help 
find the distributor, negotiate the deal and then work to make the 
actual distribution effort go smoothly. Stewart asked me to consider 
playing the agent role’and | agreed to think about it. Working back- 
ward from the tentative June 1971 publication date of the last 
CATALOG, we decided Septmeber 1970 was the time to start looking 
for the big distributor, By now, over a dozen publishers had called 
or written W.E. offering to distribute CATALOGS; it would be natural 
to start looking among these. 
In July, | called Stewart my decision to “agent” for him if he could 
still dig that. He could. | told him I’d charge the standard agenting 
rate (10%) but we,agreed that agenting a publisher to publisher re- 
lationship is different than the more common author to publisher 
agreement, so I'd get less money; my percentage is of W.E. net, not 
gross. We met soon after at the Truck Store to rap about getting 
negotiations with publishers under way. The big question was what 
to charge them. Out of this meeting came a three page statement 
announcing: a) our intent to seek a major publisher to distribute 
the last WHOLE EARTH CATALOG b) rough specs: 400 pages, color 
cover, perfect bound, same format, etc. c) the terms W.E. sought--- 
basically about 41% of retail d) a statement of print history showing 
over 400,000 CATALOGS and SUPPLEMENTS in print, with about 
300,000 copies more expected to be sold BEFORE publication of the 
last CATALOG. This statement, all drawn up official-looking, was 
mailed early in September to 25 publishers, including those who had 
previously written W.E, By mid-September a plateau had been 
Teached. | hadsig.ed a contract with Stewart naming me his agent, 
and. our announcement to seek distribution was in the mail. We were 
committed. It was time to sit back and see what happened. 
The first reponses were pretty negative. For example, a polite letter 
from Collier-Macmillan declining to make an offer. Then several 
letters making offers so far from our terms we couldn't see any point 
in replying. Then phone calls from good people full of enthusiasm but 
who couldn’t seem to get their superiors or collegues interested. The 
sum total of early replys proved to be nothing much. 
Everybody has his own point of view on these things. | frankly favored 
2 publishers who were large, well-represented by saiesmen and whose 
distribution Systems were proven to me to be very good. | met with the 
representatives of one of these the last week in September and in 
several hours we found ourselves pretty much in agreement, enough 
so that he thought his company could write a contract and | thought 
Stewart would be pleased. 
SUBSCRIPTION FORM 
$, 
Amount enclosed 
Subscriptions: 
$ 7.25 1 Five-issue Subscription starting with 
$ 7.25 
O Four-issue Subscription starting with 
$ 5.25 
$ 4.25 
O Two-issue Subscription starting with 
Single Copies: 
$ 3.00 O One issue of 1970 Fall CATALOG 
$ 3.00 
O One issue of 1970 Spring CATALOG 
4 
$ 1.30 O One issue of 1969 Fall CATALOG 
$ 4.00 
O One issue of 1969 Spring CATALOG 
Imagine my surprise when, 3 weeks later, | received a letter explaining 
that his company had decided to decline to bid. Screw! October in 
general was a bad vib month for negotiations. From a grapevine in the 
ranks of my other ‘favored’ publisher | heard election-year 
paranoia. Predictions of an Agnew stampede, a “rightist” revolution 
at the polls, and thus the end of the hip movement, the end of 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG! Also, money problems. Nobody seemed 
to have any, few were making any and who wanted to gamble on 
WHOLE EARTH next year? There might not be a sale for WHOLE 
EARTH next year. Besides, New York publishers all seemed to doubt 
our figures. Had we really sold over 400,000 copies? Did Book People 
really sell 50,000 copies of the Spring 1970 issue in June? People 
seemed very dubious and a little disinterested in the whole thing. The 
early blooms were off the trees, 
| think now, looking back on October, what had surfaced here was a 
little truth. Underneath all their solicitations and well-wishes, many 
New York people did not understand WHOLE EARTH CATALOG at 
all, And not understanding it, couldn't finally put their money on the 
table, especially in uncertain financial times. But because W.E. was 
obviously popluar (even disregarding our claims), it was a little 
irresistable. That's a tough position to be in. Clearly a number of 
would-be distributors got stuck here, with their mouths open and 
hands half way to their pocketbooks, and in this indecisive position, 
gradually faded away. 
By the middle of November, so many publishers had fallen away that 
the bush looked downright bare. Eugenia and | found ourselves in NY 
at that time surrounded by publishers wanting to know who had “‘got’’ 
the WHOLE EARTH CATALOG, but none of them willing to bid. 
During the week, we listened to several publishers being interested in 
bidding, but we couldn‘t seem to connect up with anybody. We 
returned to California convinced that Stewart would probably have 
to pull his old reliable shoe, Book People (who isn’t always THAT 
reliable), out of the closet and wear it through the last CATALOG. 
It was the time of another plateau---sort-of-low spot, minimal 
activity. You see, the problem was, we weren't looking for just any 
publisher. We had our criteria; some firms seems so far in ideology 
and feeling from WHO#E EARTH that we wouldn't approach 
them; others revealed themselves to be that far during negotiation. 
This was to be expected, But | was dismayed at the number of “‘good 
guys’ who also*tad dropped from the scene. Our schedule called for 
Stewart to make a decision by the end of the year. But by Nov. 20, pub 
date for the Fall 1970 issue, there wasn’t so much to choose from. The 
solid offers seemed too far from our needs; the more vague ones were 
just that. At this time, | was really impressed by the large number of 
people in Eastern publishing who did not understand what we wanted 
or could not see its validity. It felt to me that the gap between 
California and New York had widened to a-gulf nothing but our 
sellout could bridge. California the colony. Dependency status. 
But at Book People an amazing thing was happening. The Fall 1970 
W.E. issue was selling better than ever. In just under 4 weeks the 
entire printing of 100,000 copies was sold (62,000 + at B.P., the 
balance through subscription or at the Truck Store). This event 
seemed to turn a trick in our negotiations because it turned a thought 
in our heads. Stewart dropped a condition from our terms (one | had 
suggested originally for protection---that the publisher-distributor 
provide a guarantee of number of copies sold) and we all became 
convinced we were really ooking for a distributor (i.e. that W.E. would 
sell itself and merely needed to be accessible): At this time we were 
actively talking with 2 publishers and this change in terms brought our 
negotiations with both to life. One was a very good small publisher, 
the other a very good major. Each offered the best from his system; 
each offeredjus advantages not available from the other. For the first 
time since we began our raps, | saw real choices shaping up. A part of 
our progress was no doubt due to the growing accuracy of Stewart's 
specifications for the LAST CATALOG: its size, weight and number 
of pages make a difference in negotiations because of the possibility 
of sharing or eliminating the tremendous freight cost of transporting 4 
carloads of paper (enough for 100,000 CATALOS), or for similar 
advantages, which one or the other publisher might be able to offer. 
Early in December, we met with the editor-in-chief from one of these 
hoyses;late in the month, from the other. And felt, having come all 
this way, that we had seen most of what we set out to see, had 
collected enough information, and were ready to make a decision. | 
called Stewart early one morning at year’s end, my mind made up, 
prepared to argue him out of HIS decision, and darned to find we 
agreed! Wel, happy ending. 
Send to: 
Whole Earth Catalog 
558 Santa Cruz Avenue 
Menlo Park, California 94025 
1970 September $1 Catalog 
1970 Fall Catalog 
U Three-issue Subscription starting with 1971 January $1 Catalog 
1971 March $1 Catalog 
; 
Multiple Copies: 
$11.25 
O Five copies of 1970 Fall CATALOG 
$11.25 
O Five copies of 1970 Spring CATALOG 
$ 5.00 O Five copies of 1969 Fall CATALOG 
$15.00 1 Five copies of 1969 Spring CATALOG 
Not quite. Still a contract to be written and approved.in Januar 
after that, bringing one of the country’s big distribution systems to” 
bear on the 448 page, 3 pound, last WHOLE EARTH CATALOG in 
— 
June 1971, 
Rat 
Waterss 
Oh yeah, The name of the publisher-distributor is Random House. 
\ 
Don Gerrard 
Book People 
: 
* 
Sis 
That decision in December was between Random House and 
Dutton. Dutton small and warm, good feeling; Random big 
and powerful, not bad feeling, just big. My formula for — 
contracting all along has been “Do heavy business only v 
people known and liked, never big strangers.” My fi 
criterion for a distributor for the LAST CATALOG 
fe 
“Get the widest distribution possible, so anybody who wants 
one can get at the CATALOG easily.” 
4 
That broke down to choice between my convenience and 
would-be reader’s. And you won again, buddy. 
/ hope you did. 
—SB 
Cumulative Roster 
of Whole Earth Catalog 
‘Editors 
FALL 68 
Stewart Brand 
Jan 69 
SB 
: 
March 69 
SB 
We 
Aa 
5 
SPRING 69°. — SB (with Lloyd Kahn---Shelter & Land Use) 
July 69. 
SB 
5 
lati 
Sept 69 
SB 
ee 
FALL 69 
SB (with Lloyd Kahn---Shelter & Land Use) — 
Jan 70 
SB 
oa 
eee. oe 
March 70 
Gurney Norman (with Diana Shugart) 
SPRING 70 
SB (with Lloyd Kahn---Shelter & Land Use) 
July 70 
Gordon Ashby (with Doyle Phillips) 
== 
Sept 70 
Gurney Norman (with DianaShugart) 
= 
FALL 70 
JD Smith (with Hal Hershey—Community) 
; 
[The six month’‘s prior research was also 
JD’s, done while he was managing the 
Truck Store.] 
Jan71- 
« 
SB 
4 
March 71 
Paul Krassner and Ken Kesey 
SPRING 71 
SB 
c 
“ued 
If you change your address, 
please tell us. The Post Office 
almost never forwards! 
WHOOPING CRANE 
Zip 
