Baking Soda 
For 15 cents, you can buy a humble tool that replaces a 
lot of fancy-priced ones: Arm and Hammer baking soda. 
Potential uses-- 
1) Toothpaste. Mix soda with salt, for the kind of tooth- 
| 
paste oldtime Texas dentists used to say was better than 
storebought. 
2)'Acid indigestion tablet substitute. Just take a little soda 
with a glass of water. 
. 
: 
3) Scouring powder. Especially good in refrigerators, 
because it deoderizes. 
j 
4) Sunburn ointment substitute. Spread on paste of soda 
; 
and water. 
5) Putting out kitchen fires. 
6) Maybe even baking?? 
anonymous 
Bibble Ledbetter adds: 
For those who still smoke you can put some on your car ash trays 
to absorb the odor and safely snuffs your cigarette out. 
It's a great refresher when added to your bath. 
} 
Use it when | clean my iron skillets, cutting boards, knives, etc. 
It not only helps to remove baked on foods but it does not leave 
a detergent taste to the equipment like the above that tend to 
: 
absorb odors. 
Plus a pound costs only 21 cents. 
P.S. When my old man and | visited your store in Menlo Park last 
summer we saw a photograph of 2 pigs fucking. And my old 
man being one who regards pigs (the 4 legged animal that is) next to 
only our Irish Wolfhound, jimi hendrix, in the best of the animal 
kingdom, flipped out over the picture. Therefore is there any 
remote possiblity of being able to secure a copy of the picture? 
See next Realist. 
Cp 
84 
Bibble Ledbetter 
1716 19th Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20009 
Cheap Meal in a Strange Place 
Landing in a strange city with very little bread is rough; 
rougher even than /iving in one with very little bread. 
Eating is always important and should not be put off for 
too long in any circumstances. | may have a rung for 
your ladder. A good meal can be had in any hospital 
cafeteria in the land for from 60 cents to one dollar. Meat 
or fish, vegetable, salad, milk and dessert at 1/3 the price of 
any restaurant. No one cares what you look like either, 
they assume that you’re a visitor and leave you alone. 
More often than not you might be invited into a friendly 
conversation since people in hospitals share a common 
bond. 
° 
If you are looking for a good spot to eat in San Francisco, 
| recommend St. Mary’s Hospital on Hayes and Stanyan--- 
excellent tok 
Dana McDill 
San Francisco, Ca. 94133 
Booze: How to Lessen the Damage 
Whether dope causes brain damage is still unknown. That 
alcohol does (and speed does) is well known. You can 
lower the brain cell body count when you drink by 
simultaneously munching wonderful White American awful 
bread. /t is vitamin enriched, which replaces the B 
vitamins that alcohol robs which does the harm. Of course 
if you’re into juice to get drunk and a little deader and well 
hungover, watch out for bread. 
From Jim Fadiman 
1 
who got it from researchers at Stanford 
=. 
ad 
Mug and Brush 
Here’s an item | believe is quite worthy of recognition. The 
Shaving Mug and Brush. 
|f you are compelled to shave now and then--either by hook or 
by law--then why not enjoy it? 
Have you spent $1.49 for a small can of “hot lather’’ that later 
made your face break out? 
Have you ever shaken the can, pointed it at your head and had 
a moist breath puff a few wet specks of soap at your hand? 
Have you noticed that that jellified lather has nothing to do with 
your whiskers coming off easily but only marks the spots you 
haven't scraped yet? 
NOW! FOR THE THIRD OR FOURTH TIME THE SHAVING 
MUG AND BRUSH!!! 
After an initial investment of $3.00 for a Shulton mug with soap 
and a cheap brush, one cake of soap will last more than 6 months 
of daily shaving. That's less than 10 cents 
a month! Better brushes 
with bristles seated in rubber cost up to $10. Super brushes made 
from the straightened pubic hairs of notorious and expensive ladies 
of the evening and bound and set in jellied rhino bone with a 
solid polished moon rock handle cost-up to $10. | am certain that 
expensive mugs can be found, but a nice old earthenware coffee 
mug with a cake of Colgate soap in the bottom is the cheapest. 
(Actually you could probably rub the brush around a bar of Dial 
and get similar results.) Shulton(Old Spice) sells 
a mug and soap 
combination for up to $2:00. The soap is lightly scented and 
easily lathered. 
Directions: 
1. Let your water be very hot and steamy, too hot to touch 
for long. 
2. Let your face be scrubed with soap and freshly rinsed with the 
aforesaid hot water. 
3. Dip your brush in the water and shake it slightly so it is hot 
and wet, but not dripping. 
4. Swirl the brush in the soap until it is heavy laden with suds. 
5.Swirl the brush heavily laden with suds around your face and 
watch the thick creamy lather surround your nose. 
CAUTION: Although they may feel hairy, do not attempt to lather 
and shave the teeth, tongue, or eyeballs. 
6. Using the hottest water you can stand, do what you will. 
NOTE: After lathering you may notice a lot of soap in the brush. 
In fact there is enough for 3 more lathers. Do not attempt to 
save it till next time. This will make your brush stiff. Shave with 
two friends instead. Always thoroughly rinse your brush with very 
hot water after use. 
Ale ‘a 
Anonymous 
Copperas Cove, Texas 
edore 
Safer Than Shell Pest Strips, Easier Than Swatting 
Another suggestion: Fly * Paper. Absolutely non-toxic and 
it works almost as well as pest-strips. The type I use is 
Aeroxon which is made by Aeroxon products, New York, 
N.Y. and which I bought at my local hardware store. 
Tom Davenport 
Delaplane, Va. 
A Medical Emergency Is 
| note that Lange Medical Publications of Los Altos got favorable 
notice. Also a recommec a that do-it-yourself doctors get a 
medical dictionary to get by the argot. 
My offer: 
1) Dorlands’ is the standard dictionary 
2) A medical emergency is anyone who is not: 
Conscious 
Rational 
he skinned 
rae 
look ‘in the mouth if not 
Pik 
caucasian 
Full and slow pulsed 
Devoid of any holes he wasn’t born with 
Able to stand and walk 
Sincerely yours, 
John Rawland, M.D. 
Des Moines, lowa 
_ 
end of jack to car spring or bumper if VERY securely fastened and 
i. 
Pal 
a + 
> 
ie, 
7 = Tee 
= 
4 
6 to be 
ie Ne 
Seagr 
> 
ay 
> 
ae 
© 
? 
: a 
« 
te 
oa 
= 
ae 
ae 
TR 
Southeast Asian Joint Roller 
Since you seem to like to do things yourself, | wonder if any of you 
have ever heard of or mastered the Oriental art of rolling joints 
or any other cigarette from a simple ‘‘machine” you can make 
yourself in a few minutes. Once you have mastered the technique—- 
which took a ten-thumbed, glue-tongued idiot like myself about 3 
minutes to learn--you can turn out perfect nearly cylinders, of any 
diameter you choose, or may be demanded by the social situation 
that are uniformly packed, draw smoothly, and burn evenly. All 
you need is a pencil-like stick 9 or 10 inches long, a piece of paper 
that’s somewhat strong and flexible (the cover of your catalog 
would work fine) and slightly larger than a cigarette paper, some 
thread, and the makings. | use a plain bamboo chopstick for the 
roller because its diameter is the perfect size, bamboo is strong 
and flexible, and bamboo chopsticks cost no more than 25 cents a 
pair at any Chinese restaurant in America. 
1. Take one bamboo chopstick (or any substitute) about 10” 
long, and split it down the center for the 1st 4 inches or so. 
2. Using medium heavy paper (e.g. a magazine cover), cut a 
rectangle slightly larger than the size of cigarette paper you 
plan to use. (In Asia, cigarette papers seem slightly larger, and 
| cut my paper to a 3.25 by 2.5 inch size). 
3. Insert paper rectangle into split chopstick so the top of the 
chopstick protrudes about % inch beyond the paper, leaving 
room to tie/clamp the paper firmly. Secure the paper rectangle 
firmly by holding the chopstick tightly closed and looping a 
length of thread or nylon dental floss tightly just above and 
below the apper, then tying it. 
To roll cigarettes: 
1.[nsert a cigarette paper atop the paper rectangle with the 
oe 
long, ungummed edge against the chopstick. 
2. Sprinkle on the desired amount of whatever you're rolling. 
Smaller amounts are somewhat easier to handle, especially for 
the novice. 
; 
. 
3. Holding the paper rectangle in the left hand, loop the chop-— 
stick and attached paper to the left, over the line of tobacco 
or pot, and even it by fiddling with the chopstick in a manner 
that feels comfortable to you. At this point, the tube of 
: 
tobacco will be contained in the paper rectangle to the right of 
7 
the chopstick. 
ae 
4, Now twist the free end of the chopstick in clockwise 
direction until the rolled cigarette drops into your left hand. 
Grasp the butt to keep it from unrolling, moisten the seal, 
and trim tobacco from the ends. (If using finely processed 
grass, the ends should be twisted slightly to prevent spillage.) 
With a little practice, and a stone to help you concentrate, you can 
soon produce a finely formed butt in less than 30 seconds. If you're 
on an economy drive, as all potheads should be, it is simple to insert. 
a plug of tobacco in one end of the cigarette so the discarded roach 
contains no real stuff. For those who not do like to smoke un- 
adulterated (what an inappropriate term!!!!) grass, it is simple to 
~ 
sprinkle a bit of tobacco or whateveryouhave on the top of the 
grass before rolling, thus cutting the mixture (ARRRRGGGHHH!!!). — 
We have to recognize that occasional hard times requires emer 
measures. 
On the assumption that one of you must have mastered this 
: 
technique, | have not gone into real detail. |f no one should happen 
to know this method, and my instructions are not sufficiently clear, 
let me know. | can make you one or a dozen (my wife could make 
you a thousand--she’s the one who taught me), and go so far as 
draw rolling diagrams. 
lf you get carried away with the ancient Oriental mode of rolling 
pot, and would like to stock them in your truck store, | could 
keep my idle wife busy making them at no more than two-bits 
each (which would be about 24 cents profit, not counting labor). 
Alternatively, a small hippie commune might be interested in 
manufacturing them as a “cottage industry” requiring no 
. 
capitalization, using raw.materials that could be scrounged anywhere, 
and demanding no greater investment than a little bit of time in an 
occupation that could soothingly be performed while utterly stoned. 
In fact, doing it while stoned is a requisite to prevent boredom. It’s 
a catchy item with wide appeal and very low purchase.price. All 
hand made, lovingly, knowing what they will be used for even more 
lovingly. 
Larry Newberry 
APO San Francisco 
| just got finished hitchhiking through Vietnam, Cambodia, 
Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, Sumatra, Java, Madura, Bornea, 
Burma, India, Nepal, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran, Turkey, Bulgaria, 
Europe, etc. Lots of Americans everywhere. If anybody wants 
some information about travelling in those areas, let me know. | 
wr 
made it from Calcutta to Munich, via Darjeeling and Kathmandu, for 
exactly $92 US. Cheap and interesting. Southeast Asia is my real kick, 
and a lot of other Americans are discovering just how groovy it is. 
Virtuoso Handy Jack 
In going over your July issue, was interested to note your mention of 
the Handy Jack. | have used one for year--very effective. Here are 
three uses for it well worth featuring: 
a. In case of auto wreck and car is collapsed, insert jack and use to 
“unpry” the car and remove victim. Last time | used it, man was 
badlycrushed and was able to get some of the weight of car off him, 
He hadskidded off road, turned upside down and roof collapsed and 
squeezed him. The Handyman Jack took a lot of weight off him, but 
I still couldn’t get him out, although he was alive when | first 
reached him. If | had had two of these, | might have gotten: him out— 
but dead when our ambulance arrived and took a tow truck to lifts 
car off his body! 
b. When you skid off road in snow (or mud)...place Handyman Jack — 
(or any bumper jack that will lift 3 or 4 ft.) under rear bumper. 
j 
Raise to maximum height...then stand to one side and topple car 
off jack toward roadway. This will move rear end at least 3 ft.!! 
Repeat once or twice and you will have car wheels on road whes 
they will get traction. 
. 
c. Getting car out of 
adeep mud hole...| have used this many hires a 
Attach a lumber chain (or 3 or 4 strands of heavy rope..chain is 
best as it doesn’t stretch) to a tree or possibly another car or 
te 
truck. Attack chain to one end of Handyman Jack. Attach other 
work jack to pull car out. i.e. Jack is horizontal. This really works 
as jack will pull car at least 3 or 4 feet with each setting. Shorten 
— 
chain and repeat as necessary. Carrying one of these jacks and a 100° 
ft. length of chain may save a $20 towing bill! And in some parts 
of this country there just aren‘t tow trucks or phones available. 
= 
» Maj. Lyman F. Barry 
; 
So 
Nunda, New York 
fs 
