Hitler Was A Successful Architect 
Goering Was A Successful Junkie 
As the top representative of a technocracy which had without compunc- 
tion used all its know-how in an assault on humanity,* I tried not only 
to confess but also to understand what had happened. In my final speech 
I said: 
Hitler’s dictatorship was the first dictatorship of an industrial state in 
this age of modern technology, a dictatorship which employed to perfection 
the instruments of technology to dominate its own people. .. 
. By means of 
such instruments of technology as the radio and public-address systems, 
eighty million persons could be made subject to the will of one individual. 
Telephone, teletype, and radio made it possible to transmit the commands 
of the highest levels directly to the lowest organs where because of their 
high authority they were executed uncritically. Thus many offices and squads 
received their evil commands in this direct manner. The instruments of tech- 
nology made it possible to maintain a close watch over all citizens and to 
keep criminal operations shrouded in a high degree of secrecy. To the out- 
sider this state apparatus ‘may look like the seemingly wild tangle of cables 
in a telephone exchange; but like such an exchange it could be directed by 
a single will. Dictatorships of the past needed assistants of high quality 
in the lower ranks of the leadership also—men who could think and act in- 
dependently. The authoritarian system in the age of technology can do with- 
out such men. The means of communication alone enable it to mechanize 
the work of the lower leadership. Thus the type of uncritical receiver of 
orders is created. 
The criminal events of those years were not only an outgrowth of 
Hitler’s personality. The extent of the crimes was also due to the fact 
that Hitler was the first to be able to employ the implements of tech- 
nology to multiply crime. 
I thought of the consequences that unrestricted rule together with 
the power of technology—making use of it but also driven by it—might 
have in the future. This war, I continued, had ended with remote- 
controlled rockets, aircraft flying at the speed of sound, atom bombs, 
and a prospect of chemical warfare. In five to ten years it would be 
possible for an atomic rocket, perhaps serviced by ten men, to annihilate 
a million human beings in the center of New York within seconds. It 
would be possible to spread plagues and destroy harvests. “The more 
Speer's dramatic lighting effect at the 
Nuremberg Party Rally; 
creating what Sir Neville Henderson called “a cathedral of ice.” 
© (SPEER-ARCHIV ) 
technological the world becomes, the greater is the danger. . 
. 
. As the 
former minister in charge of a highly developed armaments economy it 
is my last duty to state: A new great war will end with the destruction 
of human culture and civilization. There is nothing to stop unleashed 
technology and science from completing its work of destroying man 
which it has so terribly begun in this war... 2 
“The nightmare shared by many people,” I said, “that some day 
the nations of the world may be dominated by technology—that nightmare 
was very nearly made a reality under Hitler's authoritarian system. 
Every country in the world today faces the danger of being terrorized 
by technology; but in a modern dictatorship this seems to me to be 
unavoidable. Therefore, the more technological the world becomes, the 
_ 
more essential will be the demand for individual freedom and the self- 
awareness of the individual human being as a counterpoise to technology. 
~ 
Albert Speer 
architect 
Reich Minister of Armaments and War Prod 
prisoner 
Inside the Third Reich 
Albert Speer 
1970; 596 pp. 
$12.50 
from: 
The Macmillan Company 
866 Third Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
The dinosaur created by Hitler, Speer, and the rest was killed in 1945. The 
answering dinosaurs which were assembled by the Allies are alive and unwell... 
Retire them, gentlemen. Honor them and retire them. (What about China, what 
about China?) Show China no mercy: give China whatever it wants.. Techriology 
is deluding them as it has been deluding us. They must get what they want before 
they can learn it is not what they need. 
—SB 
luction 
