You might be interested in the C.S. Bell mill model 2 (2MQ). In your 
(first issue you showed the small Bell mill and then later replaced 
with the Corona grain mill. The Corona is far superior to the 
mall Bell mill but the big Bell (No. 2) is far superior to the Corona. 
And far more expensive: about $30.00 as opposed to $13.00. But 
ell worth the money. On the East Coast it is distributed by the 
-Erewhon Trading Company. 
4nd an excellent book is The Soil and Health published by Devin- 
Adair. This is a classic work in the field of organic farming by Sir Albert 
Howard. Howard also wrote An Agricultural Testament and was the 
major influence on J.J. Rodale among others. Along with Plowman’s 
Folly and Farmers of Forty Centuries (and the long out of print 
Topsoil and Civilization) ore of the indispensible written works in the 
field. 
Jimmy Silver 
Boston, Mass. 
Soy veh 
...Finally a word about soybeans. As a pediatrician I’m able to pass on 
the word to you from the professional nutritionist friends of mine 
about the relative value of soybean compared to animal protein. 
_ Flat-out on a weight for weight basis soybeans have more protein and 
more essential amino acids than sirloin beef. Period. “‘Normal and 
Therapeutic Nutrition,” by Corinne H. Robinson, 13th. Ed., pp. 822 and 
825, NY 1967. The problem is more complicated, however, because 
the above superiority of bean over beef is with whole beans, and does 
‘not take into account such goodies as how the foods are prepared 
(boiling, for example, destroys some amino acids) or if the beans are in 
- the form of a 
milk or 
flour. Soybeans despite their superiority over 
_ beef 
in the Proudfit-Robinson data are rather poor in methionine, 
_ for example, and in no way should they be considered a kind of 
miracle food capable of meeting all human nutritional needs. 
~~ 
The take-home lesson of the day is that whole populations have done 
quite well on diets that were largely vegetable, but that the proper 
- nutrition was accomplished by the mixture of supplementary 
vegetable proteins, such as barley, wheat, and soy proteins. Corn, for 
example, is terrible in lysine. Soybean, on the other hand, is fairly 
‘good in lysine, and experiments have shown that corn and beans are 
better utilized when they are taken together. It is not necessary to 
; ingest large amounts of 
first class, All American Boy proteins like 
meat, milk, eggs, and fish, providing you take in mixed amounts of 
_ supplementary vegetables, as the majority of the people in the world 
do, such as cereals, millets, legumes, nuts, oilseeds, common vegetables, 
and leaf and grass protein. I’m sorry to hear one of your friends in 
Lama fell ill while on a vegetarian diet. But in no way should this be 
- construed as an indictment against the vegetable. There is emerging 
increasing evidence that the only feasible solution to global malnutrition 
in the seventies is the development of cheap, high protein plant 
mixtures, with considerably less rape of the ecosystem. Hope I 
helped. 
Sincerely, 
Henry Abraham, M.D. 
University of Arizona 
Tuscon, Arizona 
Nez Perce Correction 
CORRECTION: In the Fall 1970 issue of WHOLE EARTH 
% CATALOG, page 96, “‘Nez Perce Show”, an instruction sheet 
entitled ‘‘Nez Perce Indian Twining Method” may be purchased 
_ for 15 cents plus a stamped self addresses envelope from Mrs. 
Earle Connette, 903 East C St., Moscow, ID 83843. Leaflets 
Nos. 67, 68 & 98 may be purchased from the Denver Art 
Museum, 1300 Logan St., Denver, CO 80203 and Leaflet No.1 
from Southwest Museum, Highland Park, Box 128, Los Angeles, 
CA 90042. 
> 
ws 
Cheaper Photo Books 
In the Fall ‘70 CATALOG, p.80, you list Time-Life Photo 
Series, The Camera and Light 
and Film--- 
The books are excellent and if you buy them directly from 
_ Time-Life, CHEAPER--- 
$7.95 plus postage=$8.68!!! 
I think the address is Time-Life, 4200 N. Industrial Blvd., 
Indianapolis, Indiana 46254. 
Not a hell of a lot but something-- 
Love, 
Iris Rothman 
Jackson, Michigan 
Grass Continued 
| have an axe to grind. | also have some information. deserving of your 
catalog. For years | have been experimenting with growing grass. My 
academic inclination had me go through all the scientific information 
available...My inclination to deviancy had me order all the head 
publications also, including the one in your catalog. Most of the 
information wouldn't help a dead horse fart. | wasted many good seeds 
on those methods that were sure to work. | must admit that your ad- 
vertised publication is the best so far, but there is so much extraneous 
bullshit that it makes growing a little smoke look like its as complicated 
as synthetizing the active principle. When all the genetic and sex 
abberation shit is cut out there is really very little left. They calculate 
how long it would take to dry the shit but can’t offer an opinion on 
whether to do it that way or let it cure in the sun. That would be so 
easy to decide if they had only tried them to find out. About all that 
junk on sexual abberations, that pure horseshit! I’ve watched plants 
from the hills of Michaocan to the weed patches of Oklahoma and | 
have yet to find any sexual abnormalities, let alone the mystical, 
spontaneous hemaphrodism they claim happens when there aren't 
enough plants of the opposite sex. That worse than street rap, its in the 
name of science. Man they tell so many lies. The most absurd is on 
page 8, “‘and the life cycle of the male plant will be complete in the 
twelfth week of its existence.’’ I've seen tham go 5 months before 
pollination and another one before death. Who cares about boron 
defficiency? | do, but most people who would be inclined to grow 
would be scared shitless at the mention of Auxins and Molybedenum. 
_ What they need is the information that will tell them how to go out 
some night in late April or early May and poke some holes in the 
ground and drop some seeds in. Then not come back till harvest except 
to look at their babies when they feel like it. The solution to all this 
mineral defficiency amount of light bullshit is to plant them where 
some close relative grows. There’s hardly a place in the country where 
that doesn’t happen. That also solves the paranoia of police or other 
heads ripping it off. It’s so easy to have 8’ tall plants in 3 months. And 
it doesn’t get less potent except gradually over many years. The resin 
is to protect the leaves, seeds etc. from dehydration. So, the main 
consideration is the genetic makeup of the plant, gold is still gold for 
a few years, | know. Oh, there are ways to cure the weed as to be 
stronger than Hash. Yep, | said stronger than hash or gold for that 
matter. Ill close my growing for the market to better the community 
but I'll have to make enough to go‘on another oddesy or two. | don’t 
want to hassel with copyright shit if | don’t have to. | only want to 
make it worth my while to give the truth away insted of growing it. | 
haven't seen a new catalog yet but I‘d imagine it’s soon to be out. If 
you want some samples of my rap then answer, | won’t tell all unless 
| copyright it. But there will be plenty to make the old rap look like 
mythology. !f not then look in the dealer ads of Rolling Stone in Feb. 
and March and you can order it from me. Oh, it won't be copyrighted 
in that case so you can put it in following catalogs free if your still 
around. { hope so. 
John J. Kocher 
' 
Austin, Texas 
Author of Marin Trails, $2.95 
Tamal Land Press, Fairfax, Ca. 
