Rabbit Correction 
Small Stock Magazine 
A Countryside Publication 
P.O. Box 107 
Marshall, Wisconsin 53559 
Jerome D, Belanger, Editor and Publisher 
Dear Gurney, 
Since I am an avid WEC siépporter and realize the impact you have, 
and since Small Stock hasn’t been published in Pierce City fora long 
time, I sure wish you would have printed our current address in the 
Sept. catalog. Mail isn’t even forwarded from Pierce City anymore, 
so alot of your people will think I don’t answer mail (which is too bad 
because I'd rather answer mail than put out a magazine sometim es.) 
Anyway. Being a rabbit editor (in addition to Countryside, which I 
believe you or someone there just subscribed to) I was looking 
for all 
the usual cliches and errors about rabbits in your page. I couldn't find 
them. In fact, the only thing I could begin to argue with (if I wanted 
to be a nit-picker) was your remark that your farmer friend keeps 6 
does and a buck for his own use, and only gets one or two fryers a 
week, With proper management, a good doe (the only kind to have, at 
least after you've built up your herd with your own breeding stock) 
should raise eight young per litter, with at least four litters a year. 
That's 32 fryers, times six does=192 rabbits a year. Your friend (and 
many more like him) is wasting feed, time and effort. 
Andina nutshell, that’s how I got into the rabbit magazine thing from 
Countryside and my own homestead. I agree wh oleheartedly with 
your rambling rabbit rap, and the part rabbits can play in the post- 
capitalistic cottage economy. But I also know there’s one hell ofa 
difference between keeping a few rabbits in the back yard, and doing 
the job right. (I should know...I did it wrong long enough myself. I 
tried to get this across to John Shuttleworth (stopped in to see him 
recently, found he plans to run a rabbit article...chicken wire, wooden 
floors, all the stuff that the people who KNOW threw out years ago) 
but I don’t think I succeeded). I get all kinds of letters from people 
wanting to raise Flemish Giants for meat. They ’re big, so they produce 
the most meat? No concept at all of feed conversion, rate of growth, 
rate of conception, etc. 
Everybody knows a lot of things that ain’t so about rabbits, so they 
don’t even look for help. But on a homestead (like ours) where you 
have rabbits and chickens and goats and bees and more, a few minutes 
a day saved adds up to 40-some hours a year...and that’s a lot of time 
that could be spent to more advantage on all sorts of other projects. 
To say nothing of the bread wasted. 
I believe in simplicity, but I don’t call it going back. If we throw out 
all the USEFUL technology, all our knowledge of genetics and 
nutrition and so on, we’re no better than cave-men. We end up sweating 
24 hours a day and half the night without gaining any spirituality, 
which is really what it’s all about, in my Opinion, 
To be completely frank, I-should point owt that I just bought Small 
Stock a few months ago, so it’s still in a period of transition. It has 
always been show oriented, with a smattering of commercial stuff in 
recent years. But rabbits have never really come into their own. I 
sincerely believe that they can become a major link in all you were 
writing about...but only if people know the facts, and 
go about the 
job with at least some idea of what they’re doing. With this 
philosophy, plus my own Countryside mag and 
homestead experience, 
intend to change the course of SSM. And maybe the future of rabbits, 
or is that too egotistical? 
. 
At any rate, I do hope you'll continue to promote rabbits for food, 
with modern management principles, of course. And it would be nice 
if you could let people know where to find Small Stock Magazine. I 
really do think we can help them. 
Regards, 
J.D. Belanger 
More Rabbits 
Rabbit raising: 
In addition to the books you have already listed previously here are 
some more; 
; 
American Rabbit Breeders Assoc. 
4323 Murray Ave. 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217 
25 ¢ 
Boy Scout Merit Badge Series 
No. 3375 
Albers Milling Co. 
800 West 47th St. 
Kansas City, Missouri 64112 
Raising Rabbits (free, | think) 
Commercial Rabbit Raising 
50 ¢ 
Glick Manufacturing Co. 
1595 Almaden Road 
San Jose, Calif. 95125 
Catalog& Book 
$1.00 
Commercial Rabbit Growers Discount Club 
P.O. Box 5693 
San Jose, Calif. 95150 
Catalog free 
With four does and one buck and less than $85, you can eat good and 
in two years break even if...you sell your surplus to a commercial 
dealer. A good way to live if you aren't a vegetarian. 
T.G. Crouthamel 
Spotswood, N.J. 
“| seem to be a verb” T-shirts cost $2.50 each from: 
Mark Victor Hansen 
Box 1275 
Carbondale, I!linois 62901 
Better Stove & 100 Marines 
Riteway Woodburning Stoves have gone through three new 
owners in recent times. They are now 
Riteway 
Marco Industries 
169 Pledsant Hill Road 
Harrisonburg, Virginia 22801 
They are nice people to do with. For example, kid broken 
piece we asked for on phone--guy says, ‘well, we just got all 
this stuff shipped here and its all over the place, but describe 
it real good and we'll see.”’ | mean, hell, you can’t help 
going out and breaking something else to do business with 
them. 
Listen, Riteway is so much better than Ashley that it is not 
worth arguing about. It creosotes up the pipes less. It burns 
longer. It lives many more years. 
Love, 
George von Hilsheimer 
P.S. The Supt of Documents will send you a box full of 
recipes for 100 Marines. Absolutely useful. Surprisingly 
good, but indispensible for figuring how much and much 
more extensive than that other thing you list. MARINE 
CORPS RECIPES 100 servings/ on 5x8 cards. 
Holubar and Angier 
| think Holubar Co. of Colorado deserves a better review than you 
gave them! We've had some dealings with them and they’ve been 
exceptionally good. We bought two sleeping bags last year which have 
proved to be almost TOO warm--last night we were out in them at 
-5 degrees and they were cozy. We did a lot of comparison before we 
decided to try Holubar. One friend who had just bought some Sierra 
Designs bags was visiting when the postman delivered ours--’$75?,” he 
exclaimed. ‘| got gypped!’” DEFINITELY good merchandise. -_ 
In their catalog also is a fine selection of mountain stuff and down 
clothes. Also of interest is this years new policy of not using any 
animal fur ruffs, in the interest of ecology (wolf and wolverine being 
threatened species). More companies should come forth and take 
stands like that. 
: 
Also on another subject, my husband suggests you include Being 
Your Own Wilderness Doctor by good old B. Angier and Dr. E.R. 
Kodet. The medical guide is very uptodate, better than in How To 
Survive In The Woods, we feel. |t is written with the problems 
(probably) encountered while hiking back in, etc. It is one we want 
to add to our personal library as-soon as $ allows. In the front is a 
quick-reference index of stuff. While the supra-organic finks won't be 
too keen on it because of its emphasis on new drugs, the rest of the 
info provided (sprains, dislc. ations, fractures, stiches, etc.) certainly 
would be useful. | worked two years in a hospital emergency ward 
and to me, this is about the best emergency guide I’ve come across 
that is'written for non-medical people: It’s published by Stackpole 
Books but | can’t tell you the price cause the good ol’ public library 
clipped that corner off. Probably $5.95 or $6.95. 
Well guess thats all for now from the snowy NE. Love and peace to 
all you wet California freaks, and everyone else. 
Lewis 
Ottawa, Ontario 
Aikido 
- 
x 
The first place the catalog touched my own experience was the fall 
‘69 listing of a book on Aikido. Though | have not seen the book,! 
have heard it highly praised by fellow students, My study of this art 
is not complete. | studied with Mitsunari Kanai Sensei in Cambridge, 
Mass. for several months. The best way to understand the gentle 
harmony that is Aikido is to see the art practiced and talk to its . 
practioners, The following list of Aikido clubs and schools comes 
_ 
from the American Aikido Federation, which has the same address as 
the NY Aikikai. 
~ 
hy 
Arizona Aikikai 
817 North 1st Street 
Phoenix, Arizona 
85004 
Berkeley Aikikai 
1260 Hopkins St. 
Berkeley, Cal. 
Contact: Kenechi Suzuki 
Buffalo Aikikai 
103 Buckeye Road 
Amherst, NY 14226 
Con: Frederick Utech 
Connecticut Aikikai 
115 Bushnell St. 
Hartford, Conn. 
Con: Ralph Chiaradia 
Aikikai Deutschland 
Manfred Putzka 
D53 Bonn 
Nonschauer Strasse 7 
Germany 
> Sensei: Katsuaki Asai 
Haverhill Aikikai 
Heath Road 
Merrimac, Mass 
Contact: Allan M. Chapman 
Aikikai Italia 
Via Eleniana 2 
Rome, Italia 00185 
Long Island Aikikai 
303 Mapie Street 
Rockville Center, L.I., NY 
Telephone: (516) 766-8466 
Sensei: Eddie Hagihara 
Los Angeles Aikikai 
8929 Ellis Ave. 
Los Angeles, Calif. 
Tel: (213) 838-7557 
Con: Rod Kobayashi 
Montreal Aikikai 
‘4510 St. Denis 
Montreal, Canada 
Tel: 845-5971 
Con: Massimo Nicolaci di Villadorata 
Milwaukee Aikikai 
915 West Wisconsin Ave. 
Milwaukee, Wis. 
Con: Brian Kagan 
New York Aikikai 
°. 
142 West 18th St. 
- 
New York, NY 
Hawaii Aikikai 
3224 Waialae Ave. 
Honolulu, Hawaii 
Tel: 777-133 
Hillo Aikikai 
P.O. Box 552 
Papaiko, Hawaii 
Sensei: Takashi Nonaka 
Illinois Aikido Club 
1103 W. Bryn’ Mawr 
Chicago, III. 
Tel: 784-5821 
Wyckoff Aikikai 
a 
315 Franklin Ave. 
— 
ses 
Wyckoff, New Jersey 
aS: 
Tel: TW 1-0903 
Nwe England Aikikai 
698 Massachusetts Ave. 
Cambridge, Mass. 
Sensei: Mitsunari Kanai 
Tel: (617) 491-9582 
San Francisco Aikikai 
701 Linden Ave. 
South San Francisco, Calif. 
Tel: (415) 588-4955 
Con: Robert Tann 
Sydney Aikikai 
6/519 Church St. 
‘ 
North Parramatta 
N.S.W., Australia 
Sensei: S. Sugano 
There is also a club in New Bedford, Mass., listed in the phone book. 
: 
If you take to the yellow pages in search of Aikido, beware for 
the 
— 
art has many crude and unseasitive variants, as do all the serious 
material arts. There are also a large number of racketeers playing the 
self-defense game. 
a oii 
Aikido is hard for me to describe, It is a descipline of body, mind, and 
spirit which primarily prepares you to meet any physical threat. 
More important is the competence it gives you. Fear of physicat 
violence is a most common fear today. Aikido frees you from the 
fear not by making you invulnerable, but by proving the futility of 
violence. Aikido does a lot of things; it’s a good trip. | 
. 
i 
eal 
Roger C. 
- 
Letts 
Mr 
Montclair, New Jersey 
9» 
4 
+ 
