Hola Tso 
Sacred Knowledge 
Will you pleas? reveal to me what knowledge of organization 
the Indians taught you. I have been wondering since the article 
in Rolling Stone a few months ago. Hope you will find time 
to answer. 
Love, 
Eileen O’Leary 
Vancouver 
B.C, 
ie 
Anarchistic Indians, right? So | still thought until | attended a 
Navaho peyote meeting. The Roadman, Hola Tso, was in charge--- 
sat at the center behind the altar, handled all the major 
ceremonial changes, was aware of everything going on, had 
full responsibility and authority, was strict, was humorous, 
said very little, let most of the administrative mechanics be 
handled by the other officers Fireman, Cedarman, Drummer, 
Peyote Woman---one hand on the helm, sharp crew. 
/’ve been to glorious meetings, with big feeling and big 
learning. And to loser meetings , boring, depressing. The 
glorious were flexible, tight. The losers, loose, “democratic”, 
wishful, weak. That’s what | saw. The difference wasn’t 
Indian, White; it was responsibility, or not. 
—SB 
Indian Songs Alive and Well 
Excellent LP recordings of American Indian Songs are available from 
INDIAN HOUSE, Box 472, Taos, New Mexico 87571. Each album 
contains representative songs from one tribe or one culture area. Some 
of the tribes now on this label are: Navaho, Taos, Ponca, Kiowa, 
Comanche, Kiowa-Apache, and Creek. 
All sounds are recorded.and produced on modern high fidelity 
equipment by Tony Isaacs, the proprietor of INDIAN HOUSE and 
a longtime student of Indian music. Isaacs has had many years of field 
experience recording Indian music on various reservations in the US. 
An album titles, “Sounds of Indian America, Plains and Southwest”’, 
will be released shortly. This very inclusive album will have music that 
was recorded at the large Gallup Inter-Tribal Ceremonial, Gallup, N.M. 
The folding jacket will contain a color booklet with numerous photos 
and notes covering each of the ceremonial dances. 
Sincerely, 
Frank Turley 
Santa Fe, New Mexico 
ok 
WALCO LOOM: A strong heavy gauge spool type wire loom. 
Wide loom takes up to 49 beads wide. Regular Loom takes 
up to 36 beads wide. Length rolls up on spool. 
#69194A—-Wide Loom 
each $2.00 
#69194B—Regular Loom 
each 
1.25 
Better Bead Loom 
Recently I was in the Whole Earth Store and noticed your display of 
American Indian beading materials, surprised to see a duded-up bead 
loom with springs and wooden rollers—the standard toy manufacturer’s 
answer to the Indian. Well; there’s 
aman in NYC who, in addition to 
being curator of an Indian museum in Monroe, N.Y., runs the 
PLUME 
TRADING & SALES CO., where you can buy a real Indian bead loom 
for $1.25. Jim Luongo has been devoted to Indian culture. for 45 years 
and he'll tell you about way back when he tried to sell the real loom 
to toy makers, who wouldn’t have it. 
After struggling with the unmanageable toy version (my first venture), 
the real loom—made by the Indians and provided 
for the PLUME— 
is, of course, the simplest and easiest to use. The PLUME also has a 
wide selection of supplies for all Indian crafts, as well as antique 
pottery, baskets, moccasins with beadwork, etc. (which are rapidly 
being cleaned out by a new wave of 
collectors). 
A catalogue and mail orders are available through the museum in 
Monroe. The store in NYC, a plain brownstone with dusty sign in the 
window, is open on Wednesdays and Saturdays only. Jim Luongo’s 
knowledgeable conversation is alone worth the trip. 
Rhonda Urman 
New York, NY 
Birchbark Canoes, Good Price 
For a long time, friends have recommended that I write to you 
about getting a listing in your catalog. I have been building, 
for several years now, Indian birchbark canoes. These canoes 
are entirely handmade of natural materials which I collect in 
the woods, the same as Indian builders, The bark is from the 
Green Hides 
Buffalo robes are great for teepee living but the best source is to write 
to the Moise National Bison Range, Moise, Montana, and request a 
list of the hides, horns, and skulls, which are to be sold at the next 
auction. A friend of mine and | once bought two 2 year old bull hides 
in their prime this way for $10@. The game is that you “’bid’’ on the 
hides. It is quite possible to get a hide for $5 or whatever if no one 
bids on it and you may be sure that many hides go unsold, The same 
plan is used to sell horns and skulls. Here is the catch...you must pay 
the RR Express shipping on the hides and this will run another $10 
each for green hides. Add to this the cost of tanning, another $25 
or more and you have the cost. | would not even suggest home tanning 
to the most ancient hobbyist, some spots the hides will be almost an 
inch thick...Robes have the bad habit of also collecting stash in the 
wool or fur of the hide and they must be brushed cleen occasionally. 
Horse hides tanned with the fur on are also great bits of teepee gear as 
are Hudson’s Bay blankets and beaded teepee bags but | have found that 
old carpeting laid on the ground first is about the best insulation going 
for the serious minded teepee nomadic. It goes far to protect from the 
dampness and also protects your expensive hides and robes from being 
spoiled or ruined in the dirt. 
6 
Keith D. Gilbert 
San Quentin Prison 
paper birch, and the woodwork is split and worked of white 
cedar. The sewing is done with split pine roots and the sealing 
of the seams with pine pitch. All of my work is done with 
handtools, basically the froe, drawknife, spokeshave, and 
plane. 
I have built canoes of several different tribes. The two in the 
picture I sent are an Abnaki canoe on the left, and a Malecite 
canoe. 
I would like to sell my canoes for about $400, as it takes 
over a month’s work to ‘-uild one. My friends and myself have 
used my canoes on trips to Maine, and they stand rough usage 
remarkably well. 
I also make hand carved Indian paddles which I sell for about 
$25. In making canoes and paddles, | 
would like to say that 
I can make these things to order if desired; the buyer can 
design for himself the canoe or paddle. 
Sincerely 
Henri Vaillancourt 
Mill St. Box 199 
Greenville, N.H. 03048 
—By Edward Curtis 
Curtis’ Incredible Indians Photos Are Back In Print 
Johnson Reprint Corporation has just published THE NORTH 
AMERICAN INDIAN by Edward S. Curtis. I have seen their edition _ 
and it is extremely impressive. Much care was taken in the reproduction 
of the photographs; they retain the delicacy and prominence of the 
first edition. 
“All possible care has been taken to insure the finest quality in-the 
production of this reprint edition. Due to the large size of the original 
volumes, the format has been slightly reduced to a trim size of 
6-1/8 in. x 9% in. in the twenty text volumes, and 9 in. x 12 inches 
in the four bound supplements. This reduction enables us to offer 
* 
this series at a fraction of the price being asked for an original copy 
on the antiquarian makret. All original color plates have been beauti- 
fully reproduced in full color. The paper and binding employed 
further enhance the value and usefulness of the reprint edition,” 
(From a description pamphlet circulated in advance of publication.) 
Cost is $500.00 for the cloth bound set including supplements. 
:
(Pictorial supplements have been bound into 4 volumes covering 
5 text volumes each: I-V, VI-X, XI-XV, XVI-XX.) 
: 
Per volume, cloth bound, $25.00 
5 
’
Supplements, in 4 vols. cloth bound, each $30.00 
For ordering, the title code is 3393-LO68. Include the author and 
title as well. Johnson Reprints will supply you with a breakdown of 
what is in each volume (what tribes dealt with) if you can’t get it 
together to score the whole shot. 
: 
I’ve also enclosed Johnson Reprint’s pamphlet describing the titles 
they have in print on the Indian. Enjoy. 
JOHNSON REPRINT CORPORATION 
a 
111 Fifth Avenue 
: 
New York, NY 10003 
= 
Michael Katz 
Sherbourne Press 
Los Angeles, Ca.. 
Curtis’ Anthology Remaindered 
6084. 
CURTIS’ WESTERN INDIANS. Life and Works: of Edw. 
C. Curtis. By Ralph W. Andrews. Nearly 200 photos. The best 
photos of a 30 year endeavor by the noted photographer to 
-record the life of the American Indian makes this a vast store- 
house of fact and lore when combined with Ralph Andrews’ 
expert text. 81/2 x 1034 Orig, Pub. at $12.50, 
Only $3.95 
_publishers central bureau 
33-20 hunters point avenue 
long island city new york 11101 
[Sent by Tom Casey] 
More Trove 
Another super-excellent library source on American Indians, similar to 
the Annual Reports of the Bureau of American Ethnology is the 
Anthropological Papers of the American Museum of Natural History. 
The papers on “material culture” are especially useful. Vol. V, Part I 
“Material Culture of the Blackfoot Indians” by Clark Wissler shows 
patterns for moccasins and tipis and all sorts of other goodies. There 
are discussions of food sources and methods of preparations 
and fine 
illustrations. 
is 
Other papers on customs and rituals of the various tribes, different 
shelters, archeological digs and folk-tales and songs are included in the 
collection. There is even one about how the Hidatsa raised and trained 
their horses and dogs. 
The Anthropology and History Sections of many college libraries are 
full of information. Several hoiirs of browsing can yield fantastic 
results. 
; 
Love, 
Mark 
Binghamton, 
NY 
