Toward 
bh 
wens 
Detergent that Cleans and Stays Clean 
_ 
“Trend”, 
we hear from Rick Harriman of Paul Erlich’s 
office, is the cleanest of the standard commercial 
is _ detergents. 
wo new cleaner cleaners, “Triumph” and “Ecology Now” 
are with us, along with revised information on Amway. 
{fer 
¥ 
~ Triumph 
The Environmental Energetics and Materials Association was 
_formed by two staff members of the Berkeley Ecology 
Center. One of its purposes is to promote products which 
_ help the Consumer DO something about environmental 
problems. The first product we have been promoting is a 
phosphate-free, bio-degradable laundry detergent called 
TRIUMPH. Since July, | have left the Berkely Center to spend 
spend full time with the distributor of TRIUMPH, Dutch 
Pride Products of San Jose. 
Following is an outline of the important information about 
TRIUMPH: 
- 1. Contains phosphate only as a trace contaminant (0.2%) 
2. Contains no nitrates, borates, or enzymes (see 
enclosed lab report) 
3. Does not contain NTA 
4. Fully bio-degradable 
5. Contains no filler, is not air blown. Concentrated: 
% cup/10 Ib. wash 
6. Low sudsing in hot or cold water. (Higher sudsing in 
soft water) 
7. For use in hot or cold water, hard or soft water 
8. Safe for virtually all fabrics adn baby clothes 
9. May be used in automatic dishwashers: % to 1 teaspoon. 
: 
Also in the dishpan: about 1 tablespoon 
10. Packaged in Sib. and 10 Ib. boxes. Also in reusable 
5lb. plastic tubs. 
11. Economical. In most stores the per wash cost of 
TRIUMPH is 4-5 cents. With the popular 
polluters, the cest is 6-8 cents per wash. 
12. ‘Caution: Keep out of the reach of children.’”’ A wise 
caution for any agent that emulsifies oils, including 
plain soap. 
For any further information please contact Dutch Pride Products 
420 Umbarger Road, San Jose, Ca., telephone 408-227-6690. 
EEMA 
PO Box 9448 
Berkeley, Ca. 94709 
Amway 
John and Linda Thomas, distributors for Amway in 
Birmingham, Alabama, became concerned about Amway’s 
high place on the Government’s phosphate list. They 
wrote the company, and were told that the Government 
had Amway’s pre-1970 percentages. The new figures take 
Amway products from near the top to near the bottom 
of the phosphate lists. Inquire to: 
Amway Corporation 
; 
7575 East Fulton Road 
“. 
Ada, Michigan 49301 
i from: Friends, Nov. 13°70 | 
—+ 
Ecology Now 
; 
Our product, ECOLOGY NOW, is an all purpose cleaner which is 
entirely different from other cleaners already on the market. It is a 
very good cleaner, and can be used as a laundry additive, in the dish- 
washer, and on everything from degreasing car engines to shampooing 
hair. 
You will be glad to know that it is completely safe for the environment 
and does not cause water pollution. ECOLOGY NOW is non-toxic and 
non-caustic. Two years of research and testing have proved that our 
product is safe to use on all materials, safe for humans, and safe for 
our damaged waterways. 
As you know, many products claim to be bio-degradable. Their claim 
is debatable. Often these products biodegrade too quickly and act as 
a bio-stimulant and create the well-known cycle of removing oxygen 
from the water, creating algae which secretes methane gas and kills 
fish and marine life. 
ECOLOGY NOW is timed to biodegrade near the seventh day after 
use. It does not harm the delicate eco-systems in lakes, rivers and 
streams. 
Through efforts of citizens like yourselves, the public has become 
aware of water pollution problems created by phosphates. Some 
detergent and cleaning manufacturers are now claiming that their 
new products will contain no phosphates. Many of these 
manufacturere are simply changing to NTA (Nitrilotriacete acid) 
which is even more harmful to the environment and humans than 
phosphates. Remember, if the label still says poisonous, it is not only 
poisonous to humans but to our water as well. 
ECOLOGY NOW contains no phosphates, NTA, silicates, ammonia 
or nitrates. 
Our address is ECOLOGY NOW INC., 864 Burlway Road, 
Burlingame, California 94010. 
Sincerely, 
Rita Lynne Schmidt, President 
ECOLOGY NOW INC. 
Solid soil particles are attracted to colloids, by what might be 
described as a magnetic force field. When the attraction of the 
colloids become greater than the force holding the solid soil 
Particles together, or to a surface, they are dispersed into 
individual particles, that do not have the ability to redeposit. That 
is to say, when colloids penetrate into dirts, greases, oils 
and other 
soils, they break it up into billions of individual particles, that 
constantly repel each other, making it impossible to stick back 
together, or redeposit on a surface. 
ECOLOGY NOW has no harsh detergents, powdered alkalis, 
caustics, acids, bleaches or petroleum solvents. Cleaners that are 
made of these products destroy dirt, and do a good job as far as 
cleaning is concerned, however, they also destroy skin tissue, 
oxidise paint, start the process of deterioration in plastics, 
naugahyde, vinyl, etc. This damage is usually not immediately 
apparent, however, repeated use of this type of product can cause 
severe damage, that usually shows up as dryness, brittleness, or 
hairline cracks, that are generally regarded as aging or weather checks. 
ECOLOGY NOW eliminates this type of damage, and the colloid is 
completely ‘‘People Safe’’. It is gentle enough to be used as a hand 
cleaner, yet powerful enough to remove raw crude oil from oil field 
equipment. 
ECOLOGY NOW is referred to as a cleaner, but because it IS NOT 
A SOAP OR DETERGENT, its uses are not limited to cleaning. 
ECOLOGY NOW is not designed to work like any other cleaner 
ever developed, it simply penetrated into soils and stirs things up. 
It keeps stirring itself, as long as there is even a microscopic 
amount of moisture for it, to work in. 
Due to its unique formulation, ECOLOGY NOW works equally 
well in fresh or salt water. 
It can be mixed with alkalis, salts of various types and certain 
types of acids, as well as petroleum solvents, where the job 
requires 
\ special types of additives, and many cleaning jobs which 
formerly required a special compound, can now be accomplished 
by a single product--ECOLOGY NOW. 
be 
a 
practical 
way 
to 
recycle 
rubber, 
if 
cast, 
cordless 
tires 
have 
Process 
which 
dissolves 
(by 
destructive 
distillation) 
old 
tires 
could enough 
rubber 
left. 
Flanigan, 
SAE 
Journal 
of 
Automotive 
Engineering, 
v68, 
n8, 
Aug 
18-004 
Tires 
Could 
be 
Recycled 
if 
Process 
Proves 
Economical, 
William 
1970, 
pp. 
35-36 
(2) 
research 
report 
analysis. 
Mercury Seeds? 
Could you send me or publish in your (my) next issue of WEC a 
list of seed companies who both do and don’t 
coat their seed with 
Mercury as a bacteria control agent. 
| think this would be of great importance to all those paranoid 
about Mercury poisoning and/or organic growing. 
Love, 
- 
William Harrison 
New Hope, Pa. 
Dye Kill? 
In your July Supplement on p.12 you have a list of ““39 Ways to 
Save the Earth’. The 1st one is to avoid use of colored facial 
tissues etc. because the dye forms a residue in water.—On pages 8 
and 9 there are several letters printed with advice on dying cloth. 
| would like to know about the effects of left-over Tintex-Rit or 
Procion dyes which are dumped down the drain when dying is 
finished on the water supply. Surely they form residues too. 
Or don't they? 
What can the home-dyer do about it? 
Carolyn Hendricks 
199 Dolores No.7 
San Francisco, Ca, 94103 
Ecology Access 
ACCESS is an indexing, abstracting and information retrieval 
service that covers published and non-print information on 
environmental pollution, conservation and related fields. 
ACCESS provides subscribers with an overview of the 
environmental reporting of more than 400 scholarly, scientific, 
industrial, technical and general periodicals and major 
newspapers; important environmental radio and television 
programming, films and filmstrips, books, corporate 
publications and major conference publications. 
ACCESS is made available to subscribers in four steps: 
1. Indexing and abstracting services, published bi-weekly 
(26 times per year) ensure timely coverage of 
important information; abstracts summarize contents, 
and describe type of information provided. 
. Information Retrieval Services allow subscribers to 
order copies of needed items, in hard copy or 
microfiche. 
3. Semi-annual cumulative indexes, provide cross- 
referenced coverage of past ACCESS information. 
On-call research services assist subscribers in locating 
special items, assembling data or bibliographies, 
obtaining literature surveys, summaries or other 
research. 
ACCESS can be used to monitor: 
* general developments affecting the environment. 
e horizontal environmental categories such as water 
pollution, chemical and biological contamination, solid 
waste disposal, or water pollution. (see Main Entry 
categories, p. 4) 
* specific aspects of horizontal categories such as 
eutrophication, compaction, or metal poisoning. 
(see Subject Index, p. 6) 
* coverage of timely environmental issues such as mercury 
pollution, SST, DDT, Project Rulison, Trans-Alaska 
pipeline, or Trans-Florida barge canal. 
¢ vertical industrial categories such as Agricultural 
chemicals, Paper industry, Utilities. (see Industrial Index 
p. 6) 
ACCESS can be used as starting point for literature searches 
and as a reference tool for articles, congressional hearings, 
position papers, research reports, speeches, state of the art 
papers or theses; as a tool to keep abreast with professional 
reading; to alert superiors, peers or subordinates to important 
environmental information or developments; or to obtain 
advance notice about environmental books, radio and TV 
programs and films Certain items can be ordered directly 
through ACCESS. 
ECOLOGY FORUM, INC. 
SUITE 303 EAST 200 PARK AVENUE, 
NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10017 
1 
