Ley) 
: y itd pi ede See oa 
oot 
People’s Capitalism Has A Newsletter 
We carried Kelso’s Two Factor Theory (“How to Turn 80 
Million Workers into Capitalists on Borrowed Money”’) in the 
Spring CATALOG with a review by Richard Raymond, which 
_ suggested that Kelso address himself to a younger and readier 
_nowa 
audience. The review was widely quoted in other publications, 
including one in England. 
é 
Kelso’s scene is gathering some Movement qualities, including 
. 
Newsletter of the Institute for the 
Study of Economic Systems 
2027 Massachusetts Ave. N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20036 
Membership $10/year 
Student membership $6/year 
Below is an article from Vol.1, No.1, October 1970 
TRIBUNES ON THE MARCH 
Tribunes are mobilizing to the defense of the people in the Nation’s 
capital! 
A group of Kelsonians here calling themselves the “Ninety-five 
Percenters” has begun an ambitious social action program designed 
to achieve the goals of Universal Capitalism as outlined in The 
Capitalist Manifesto by Kelso and Adler. Rejecting all forms of con- 
centrated ownership-whether in the form of class capitalism, mixed 
capitalism, or state capitalism--as the inevitable result of defective 
economic systems, the Ninety-five Percenters will appeal to the 
capital-less masses, and to potenttal allies among the five percent 
who enjoy exclusive access to capital ownership today. 
Starting from a nucleus of a Washington Area Free University class, 
this “new movement” has organized into bands of three people called 
“Tribunes”. With “Economic Power to the People” as its rallying 
call, the group will take steps to contruct history’s first democratic 
economic foundation for 
a free industrial society. It will strive to 
connect corporate economic power directly to every person in society 
through new ownership shares and by updating and revitalizing the 
institution of private property, an institution that has eroded and 
become misunderstood and abused as access to capital ownership was 
denied to the vast majority of people. 
; 
The groups chose the name “Tribunes” 
for its original meaning, 
“defenders of the people”. Through bold yet constructive challenges 
on many fronts, they will expose the failures of the Nation’s 
decision-makers to achieve economic justice. The Tribunes will pro- 
mote the three Kelsonian principles of economic justice: 
1. Everyone should have equal opportunity to participate in production 
through both labor and ownership of capital. (The input or 
“participation” principle.) 
2. Everyone is entitled to the rewards of his production. (The “‘private 
property” principle of distribution.) 
3, No one should produce radically more than he can consume, if this 
would deny others the right to participate in production. (The anti- 
monopoly or “limitation” principle.) 
Each of the three members of a Tribune assumes the personal 
responsibility for forming another Tribune, to which he is an observer 
for communications putposes. As their numbers increase throughout 
the United States, the Tribunes will be organized along regional lines 
to conform with the Federal Reserve and Congressional districts. Each 
Tribune in the network willl develop its own action and educational 
_ programs, guided by the spirit of the First Amendment and based on 
non-violence. 
Separate and distinct from the Institute for the Study of Economic 
Systems, the Tribunes are political and social-action oriented. Their 
aim is to develop the political base for spreading the philosophy 
and programs of Universal Capitalism. 
The Tribunes will bring together the expertise of individuals from 
varied professions and fields of interest. Regular meetings will effect 
@ continuing exchange of information and ideas and result in practical 
planning for effective activism. 
For information about forming your own Tribune, write to: 
Rev. William Gardiner 
All Souls’ Church 
16th and Harvard Streets, NW 
5 
Washington, DC 20009 
‘Land Belongs to All Men Equally.’ 
Hi Gang. 
. 
| would like to suggest an item for your final catalog. The Henry George 
School of Social Science, 50 East 69th St., NY, NY. 10021, is 
offering free courses in the economic philosophy of Henry George. The 
student needs to buy his own textbooks for the courses, but hardback 
copies of Progress and Poverty and Social Problems (both by H. George) 
are available from the school for $2.00 each. 
| had never heard of Henry George before | took the Fundamental 
Economics course from the school, but | must say that only two 
books have meant as much to me as Progress and Poverty. (\n case 
anybody cares, the other two books are the Bible and Walden.) Any- 
body who is interested in alternatives to our present economic mess 
ought to really dig it...what George had to say...and not merely dig it, 
but apply it. 
His basic premise is that land belongs to all men equally, and that 
those who wish to have land must pay the community for the 
privilege of using it. This kind of tax would 
be in proportion to the 
actual value of the property involved, and therefore the people of the 
community would benefit from rising real estate prices. Speculation 
in land would lose its attraction, and stability in prices ought to result 
from the “‘single tax’. 
In case one might think that books on economics are dry and dull, let. 
me say that Henry George is a beautiful stylist of the English language. 
To have both style and substance is a rare gift, getting rarer all the 
time. | would heartily encourage anyone with a brain to read his 
books. 
The course in Fundamental Economics is based on the textbooks | 
mentioned, The student gets a sheet with questions on the reading 
material and spaces to fill in answers. It's not speculative as courses 
go, but I’ve found it helpful in nailing down the basic ideas in each 
chapter. Anyway, what do you want fer nuthin’? 
Ruth A. Kenney 
Glendale, California 
senus A -3970" 
More Money, Honey 
Gary Filler 
Chattanooga Coin 
910 Market Street 
Chattanooga Tenn. 37401 
is so far the cheapest interest on silver coins bought on loans 
(you pay the difference between face value and market value 
of the silver on dimes and quarters) at 7%. 
To reiterate. Silver, for lots of reasons, is becoming dearer and 
dearer. In the event of atomic catastrophy or a quite probable 
economic debacle in the USA, genuine silver dimes and quarters 
ie 
[7 
th 
fi 
Ant 
Farm. 
will spend at silver value when paper or cupronickel coins will 
not get you anything but laughs. 
A bag of silver buried on the old homestead is the nicest 
security blanket. 
Mildly speculative investments in silver coins is about a 85% 
winner, in fact, my own personal attitude—measured by what 
our commune does with its surplus and where we have our 
employees retirement banked—is that its closer to a 99% 
winner. 
In short, silver can be stole, but it can’t be changed to clay 
by politicians promises. 
George von Hilsheimer, ttimself 
The Mao Ethic and Environmental 
Quality 
Maoism is an ethic of progress, but of 
progress that relies more on the trans- 
formation of the Chinese masses than 
on the directions and recommendations 
of a scientific and technological elite. 
Hence, 
progress 
and 
the 
resulting 
changes in the means of production— 
the development of new technologies— 
are to remain under human control. It 
is therefore 
an ethic that appears to 
make technological development depen- 
dent on social development, instead of 
letting 
social 
development 
slip com- 
pletely out of phase with technological 
progress. 
As. an environmental 
ethic, 
then, Maoism may seem very attractive 
indeed to many of the citizens of the 
complex industrial societies of the West, 
who are increasingly disturbed 
about 
the secondary and tertiary ecological 
effects of their technologies... 
. 
, 
A feat that has received much public- 
ity in the West has been the elimination 
Orange City, Florida 
of flies and mosquitoes through the mo- 
bilization of virtually every man, wom- 
an, and child in the country. It seems 
quite possible that the Chinese may 
have gone a long way toward accom- 
plishing another feat of almost equal 
proportions—that of cleaning up many 
of the polluted streams, small rivers, 
and lakes which for centuries have been 
receiving much of the human and ani- 
mal waste that was not used for fertil- 
izing fields. Careful management of wa- 
ter and manure in the rural areas is one 
of the most important 
functions 
of 
medical and sanitation personnel, while 
medical and public health journals pub- 
lish many articles on the subject and 
print detailed instructions on how. to 
build and protect wells, how to manage 
manure, where 
to place latrines, and 
what personal hygienic measures 
one 
should take after working with manure. 
Other pollution problems in the cities 
were handled through extensive clean- 
up campaigns—not unlike recent com- 
munity efforts in some of the cities of 
Nan Huai-ching, a master of the traditional Chinese calisthenic dance 
form, T’ai chi ch’uan, performs in a film made by Thomas Davenport 
filmed in Taiwan. 
(8 mins, b/w, $10 rent, $80 buy; from 
Tom Davenport Films. 235 2nd Ave. New York 10003) 
the United 
States, 
but on 
a vastly 
larger 
scale. 
Masses 
of people were 
mobilized in China’s cities to remove 
refuse that had accumulated 
in resi- 
dential districts. To keep the streets and 
alleys of residential areas clean, regu- 
lations that such areas must be swept 
were enforced, and residents were or- 
ganized to transport refuse. In this proc- 
ess great care is taken to salvage any- 
thing 
that may 
have 
some 
residual 
value. For example, pieces of metal are 
always collected; furnace cinders 
are 
gathered, to be used in construction ma- 
terials or as fill for swampy areas; and 
so forth. A side effect of the “keep your 
city clean” campaigns, Chinese style, is 
one that foreigners who had been in 
China prior to 1950 would find almost 
unbelievable: apparently the people no 
longer expectorate or blow their noses 
on the street... 
. 
Throughout the period of the Peking 
regime, 
industrial 
pollution 
has been 
fought primarily under various slogans 
relating to frugality; workers have been 
told that, if they will properly implement 
Mao’s thoughts, 
“wastes” 
will indeed 
be transformed into “treasures.” Of par- 
ticular importance during the last few 
years has been the concept of “compre- 
hensive use,” introduced 
as a Maoist 
injunction to workers and peasants to 
recover and reuse 
(recycle) 
industrial 
and agricultural wastes. Although the 
comprehensive-use 
concept 
had _ its 
foundations in perceived conditions of 
scarcity and in Maoist frugality as a 
tesponse 
to those 
conditions, 
it has 
nevertheless 
been explicitly linked to 
environmental quality. During the first 
4 months of 1970 the tempo of the 
comprehensive-use campaign increased. 
The campaign became a “vigorous mass 
movement” aimed at full utilization of 
the 
“four 
wastes”—waste 
materials, 
waste water, waste gas, and waste heat. 
There are indications that Chinese sci- 
ence and technology is being asked to 
focus more of its attention on compre- 
hensive utilization 
(7). This presum- 
ably will lead to research by trained 
Scientists and engineers on the recy- 
cling of resources, to supplement the in- 
novations of peasants and workers... 
. 
Leo A. Orleans and Richard P. Suttmeier 
in Science, 11 Dec 1970 
$12/year (weekly) from: 
American Association for the 
Advancement of Science 
1515 Massachusetts Ave. N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20005 
