PT 
a 
ee 
Boot Print Septic 
While !’m ordering maybe | could do a little suggesting too, with a 
couple of things you may have already heard of, but are good to me. 
Frye Boots- relatively inexpensive but last much better than Acme 
Boots--can be waterproofed with 
Sno-Seal-absolutely the greatest little can of water-proofing compound 
for boots--keeps your feet dry even when you walk in a creek (with 
your boots on, of course) You heat it and rub it into the seams, etc.-- 
smells really rich and natural too when you're doing the job on your 
boots. Works for packs and seams ‘n other heavyweight stuff. 
Anderson & Thompson Ski Co., Seattle, Washington: 
Sprament-a spray cement I’ve used for mounting photographs--not 
really cheap, but it’s fast, easy to use and will not dry up and come 
loose--you can probably use it for a heck of a lot of joining jobs. Made 
by Scotch. 
5 
Shaeffer & Parker Fountain Pens-no kidding, did you ever think about 
what happens to all those pencil stubs, ball point refills and felt-tip 
pens (like the one I’m using right now--it cost 69 cents and will 
probably last a month) A fountain pen uses ink with no waste (glass 
bottles can be recycled) and lasts a lifetime—it’s also much more 
satisfying to use, Ah, there’s that shiny ink agin! Also... 
Koh-I-Noor grafting pencils-lead holders (mechanical) that hold the 
lead (what else?)--you can get different grades, colors of lead, too. 
Also... 
Koh-I-Noor Rapidograph drafting pens-the easiest, fastest way to do 
high quality inking on reproducable drawings, Many different line 
widths available. 
Leroi Lettering Equipment-a mechanical guide system for lettering, 
drawings, etc. Several styles available; good, but not cheap. Lasts 
though. 
(Koh-I-Noor and Leroi Lettering available at any engineering supply 
store or from Keuffel & Esser) 
Strunk & White’s The Elements of Style-that little red book that 
answers 99% of the questions of grammar, style, spelling and writing 
“rules” that any writer has nagging his brain. Published by Macmillan 
in paperback. 
Letraset instant lettering-a press-on adhesive lettering in hundreds of 
styles and sizes, even symbols, shading, etc. A catalog is available in a 
good engineering or artist’s supply store or from Letroset, 2379 
Charleston Rd., Mountain View, Calif. This stuff makes it easy as 
PIE 
to do (wow!) really snazzy lettering for offset or just neat signs, etc. 
Or you can rephotograph it yourself and have a ball making cards or 
anything. The above took less than 10 sec. 
Watson Bulk Film Loader-an investment of $8-$10 in this gadget 
lets you save at least 60% on black & white film costs. A roll of Plus X 
can costs you $1 ina 
store, yet you can buy a 100 ft. roll and “roll 
your own”’ with a reusable cartridge—no waste for 25-30 cents. You 
can also bulk load other films not available in single rolls-surplus 
stuff, wierd color or industrial films. 
Nikor Roll Film Developing Tanks-these babies last forever! Again, 
not the cheapest, but in the long haul they'll save their cost times and 
times again, Reelly easy to load--easy to clean and dry for re-loading. 
Many sizes available--stainless steel-distributed by Honeywell Photo 
Products,..! think... 
That reminds me of: 
Thermos Stainless Steel all-metal thermos bottles-no glass liner to 
break--beat the shit out of it and it won't break, stain, etc. Mine is 
covered with dents--each would have probably cost me a new glass 
unit. About $15-$18; again durability, but at a price. 
Manual of Sewage Treatment Practice-a paperback book put out by 
US Public Health Service (or Dept. of H.E.W.) that give all necessary 
design dope for good, cheap, and efficient sanitary disposal systems-- 
septic tanks, leaching fields, etc. This is used as a standard by the Feds 
for reviewing designs of these on-lot systems, so you won't get hassled 
by the friendly local sewer inspector if you wave this in front fo him. 
| know from personal experience that this is the “Bible” for this 
sort of thing as far as the US Forest Service is concerned. Probably 
quite cheap... 
Yours, 
Frank Barrett 
Golden, Colorado 
Free Wood Construction Details 
On page 25 of your Spring 1970 Catalog you have listed the 
American Plywood Association. You might also try listing: 
1) American Wood Preserves IAstitute 
2600 Virginia Ave. NW 
Washington, DC 20037 
2) National Forest Products Association. 
1619 Massachusetts Ave. NW 
Washington DC 20036 
3) Southern Forest Products Association 
P.O. Box 52468 
New Orleans Louisiana 70150 
All three of these non-profit (run by the industries) 
organizations will send free pamphlets on a very wide range 
of subjects hoping that you will buy their product. The 
pamphlets are magazine size and made from the same kind 
of paper. 
Your readers might be interested. | would have been and | 
am a reader. 
30 
Thank you 
James A. Webb 
Coral Gables, Florida 
Poor Man’s TV 
Microfiche and microfilm. What's available in the microfiche? 
A while ago, NCR had a full-page ad about their plans to film 
the classics to provide good, cheap libraries, but nothing has . 
appeared since. University Microfilm in Ann Arbor digs up 
obscure books through the U of M library and sells 
microfilms for an outrageous price, as well as filming a huge 
number of American periodicals. Microfiche has no mass outlet 
that | know of, although portable readers are available for 
under $100, and viewers for less than $10. Microfiche is 
probably the wave of the future, since it packs information in 
higher density than almost anything, all with good, random 
access. Fiche cards are easier to store and transport than paper 
tape, microfilm, the EVR system using cartridges that CBS is 
pushing, and what’s more can be bootlegged cheap... 
Slow-scan television (sstv). In the July 1970 issue of 73, 
page 22, is an sstv bibliography. What the system, developed 
by radio amatuers, is is low-resolution, narrow-bandwidth 
~ 
television, and the articles show how to put both camera and 
receiver together from scratch. Specs are: 
Aspect ratio: 1:1 (square) 
Sweep rate: 15hz 
Frame rate: 8 sec/frame (which gives a 120-line frame, 
very low resolution) 
Frequency range: 1500-2300hz FM 
Sync pulses: 1200hz (which gives a total bandwidth of 1100 
hz). 
What this means is that anybody with a halfway decent tape 
recorder can send television tapes through the mail, or just 
keep them to build a library. Put sstv on the phone or on the 
air (hmm, amateur radio...) and you have a sort of people’s 
picturephone. A decent setup can probably be built for less 
than $200, less recorder... 
Wes Plouff 
Port Huron, Michigan 
Non-FCC Radio 
Here is some information on Low Power Broadcast. They 
sell equiptment for carrier current radio stations. A carrier 
current station is one with limited range and it uses the 
electrical system as an antenna. They are not regulated by 
the FCC as long as the signal remains in a limited area. At New 
College, we built a radio station for about $600 for 400 
people. You don‘t need to know alot about electronics to do 
it either. It’s really a great way to use the media of Radio. 
Perhaps you could list them in the Catalog. I'd be happy to 
write a review for you about it. Richard Crompton, the 
president, is a nice fellow and when we had troubles he 
accepted collect calls from us and helped us solve our 
problems. 
Robert Swartz 
Boston Mass. 
Low Power Broadcast Co. 
520 Lincoln Hwy. 
Frazer, Pa. 19355 
(215) 644-4096 
PERFORMANCE SPECIFICATIONS 
§ 198 
SS 
SE RTE AY 
POWER OUTPUT 
OUTPUT 
IMPEDANCE 
AUDIO 
|NPUT 
4 watt 
RF carrier 
50 ohm coaxial ,S$0-239 conn. 
600 ohm balanced audio Tine 
at -25 dbm 
less 
than 2% at 85% modulation, 
50 Hz 
to 15 KHz 
NOISE LEVEL 
at 
least 
50 db below full 
: 
modulation 
down 
3 db at 
50 Hz and 
AUDIO DISTORTION 
AUDIO RESPONSE 
15 KHz 
POWER 
INPUT 
approx. 
65 watts 
at 
117v,50/60Hz 
—— 
a 
a" 
[| 
yy 
- 
Oe 
“4 
fe 8" 
The RC-6A AM Broadcast Transmitter represents the ultimate in 4 watt 
single-building-coverage transmitters for carrier-current or limited-area 
broadcasting applications. The design is based upon the experience 
gained in the manufacture and application of over 2,000 units of 3 
models of similar equipment since 1960. Reliable broadcast quality 
coverage of large, multiple-story buildings is afforded by the RC-6A 
Transmitter together with the associated RC-T2 series Matching and 
Coupling Unit. A two or three building complex of smaller adjacent 
buildings can also be covered thru the additional use of an RC-T1 series 
Power Splitter. 
NEW SUGGESTIONS 
This is the Solution for the Ax-Head Problem , 
~ 
Tighten 
loose chairs 
without removing 
rungs! Place chair so 
loose rung 
is down. 
Hold spout of CHAIR- 
LOC bottle to the joint 
_ and let it seep slowly 
down into the crack. 
Tighten loose hammer and axe han- 
dles without removing the heads. Just 
apply CHAIR-LOC to the head end, 
puddling it slightly so that it can seep — 
down 
the 
sides 
of the socket. 
If 
wedges are loose, drive them down 
with a punch. You can make a ser-_ 
viceable wedge by 
cutting off a 6 pen- 
ny 
nail 
%” from 
head 
and 
drive 
into end grain of 
handle at head. 
3 oz. Plastic Bottle 
$1.30 Postpaid 
The Chair-Loc Company 
Lakehurst, N.J. 08733 
from: Roger Knights 
No Reason 
I’ve been dying for an excuse to recommend these items, 
which don’t really fit into rigid 
CATALOG specifications as — 
TOOLS. Theyre just damned nice things that seem to have 
been overlooked by our spottily vigilant subculture press. 
Excuse: Hal just said, “I have this space...” 
For the best romantic beyond-melodic music since 
Hovhannes’ Mysterious Mountain, get Terry Riley’s 
Rainbow in Curved Space, or if you’re more conceptual 
his earlier Jn C. Both in good record stores. 
For the best post-revolutionary speculation into the media 
_ 
consciousness---with the true issue, immortality, at stake-- 
consider Norman Spinrad’s Bug Jack Barron. Even good 
writing. “You ball me with your image, and I'll ball you with 
mine”, sticks in my mind. In seedy paperback. 
5 
—SB 
Sleeping Bag Materials 
Since you're finishing up I guess I'd better add something 
now. 
About making sleeping bags--- 
Light Weight Camping Eg.-and How to Make It is instructive 
but careful not to give you a design for anything that would 
— 
compete with their own gerry’s line. You ‘have to make your 
own adaptations. The basic book is still helpful. 
om 
Goose down costs a fortune from the sources listed. Most 
feather suppliers don’t want to see you unless you can buy 
about 100 lbs. of down. Sometimes quilt makers will sell 
however. I got mine at $8 per lb. from: 
i 
J. Schack ter Co. 
Allen St. 
Weve 
; 
(Gerrys charges $19.50 per lb.) 
Nylon material is very hard to find. I was astonished to find 
that almost all of the fabric centers in Syracuse had 
no idea 
— 
of what type of fiber went into their fabrics, which were 
— 
strong set. All they cared about was color! After scouring the — 
Carmet distict of N.Y.C. I happened upon a dark little store 
which sold “Mill Ends” or remnants. I found just what [ 
; 
wanted at half price--with a smile! 
Se 
Fabric Export Co. 
% 
45 Walker St. 
oe 
si 
N.Y. 13, NY 
: 
: 
Long zippers are hard to find--long zippers which are nylon 
and which open at both ends such as the Waldes zipper are 
extremely hard if not impossible to find. Waldes does not- 
sell retail. I still haven't found a zipper but the sleeping bag 
(?) is so warm that I haven’t needed one yet. 
“a 
David Briars 
Syracuse, N.Y. 
te 
