Se 
Our studio in San Francisco is located about a half block from 
the project. A series of concrete buildings, the project was 
an attempt on the part of the government some years back to 
provide living quarters for welfare recipients. Welfare being 
what it is, most of the people in the project have found it 
impossible to make a place for themselves out of this pile of 
concrete so spend a great deal of time out on the'street. There 
are many children and young people around the project and 
most of their time is spent inventing and trying out methods 
for getting a p/ece of the action. 
One morning I walked out of the studio to find stuffed under 
the door a folded note. The message, which was neatly pen- 
ciled across.the face of some play money, said GIVE US SOME 
MONEY TO! And it was signed by Nina, Carol and Marina, ages 
6, 7, and almost 7 respectively. Over in one corner in red was 
a mailing address. Now having been on the receiving end of many 
inventive schemes it seemed to me that this was by far the most 
direct, honest, no-game approach for getting a piece of the 
action that I had seen. 
I probably would not have given this event the attention I did 
if it were not for the fact that my friends and I had just spent 
the better part of that same morning trying to invent some 
schemes for getting a piece of the action ourselves. And I 
suppose because of our schooling none of us had been able to 
come up with such an inventive solution. But now having 
been given the ultimate scheme by these 3 brilliant strategists 
we began to move towards its implementation. After a brief 
discussion we quickly arrived at the basic question, “Who 
knows someone with money?” and after some moments of 
silence someone suggested the Bank of America. 
Right on, we all thought, yet we all knew that THE BANK 
did not have a history of giving money away. For several times 
in our past struggles to survive we had gone to THE BANK to 
request the loan of some money and we were refused due to 
lack of an item they called “collateral”. We also had been 
talking to the folks next door who had just attempted to 
et a loan to start a little business and were also refused because 
HE BANK was not about to assist in the establishment of a 
pipe and roach clip shop. 
| 
Anyway, all this led to a rather interesting discussion of THE 
BANK and produced some thoughts about money and people’s 
access to it. Here is, in 
part, how it came down. 
First thoughts---the TAX 
people and the IRS frown on folks 
keeping their money in the mattress and make it pretty tough 
on you if at any given time you don’t have a record of where 
_ 
your money came from, is, or went. So most of us find the 
Bank deposit/ withdrawal system a fairly inexpensive method 
for keeping these money “records” in order. This method 
seems to satisfy the Bank because they can use your money 
while you are not, and you are satisfied that these “records” 
are being kept so that you can so what you are up to without 
being in the shadow of the MAN. 
Second thought---there is however one aspect of this method 
which escapes our consideration and this is it. That when I put 
in my $25.00 savings and you put in your $25.00 savings 
Bankness, and Bigness, and War, and 
A SOLUTION 
U.R. HOPE 
1039 OUR PLACE 
1) INN, 
ve a Nee 
x 
Z 
TOTAL AMOUNT DEPOSITED 
sich ™OGSAMOWNO 2056492" 
and 10,000 other people put in theirs the Bank ends up sitting 
on a lot of bread. Now as long as we don’t all draw it out at the 
same time (which would be interesting to try some time) this 
and lends it back to us or others, for a price, which they call 
a 
“interest’’. But the obvious trouble here is that the Bank then 
can determine the price for this money and who gets it. By 
controlling the doors of access to money the Bank can and does 
directly influence the manner and direction that energies can 
flow. This fact is one of the strong arguments for why we must 
develop an energy 
economy. The “‘you fix my teeth and I'll 
make your shoes’ economy gets the energy in the needed 
places. 
Third thought---the Bank being directed by those whose ego 
games are to make lots of money, they naturally tend to lend 
our money to those who can pay the highest price for it. This 
“sell” formula is self-escalating and soon the only people who 
can afford to pay the price are those who have a big thing going. 
And somehow or other most of the big things we know about seem 
to get bigger and sooner or later they end up creeping onto your 
front lawn. For example, there are “War Projects” and 
“Secret Projects” which will pay as high as 18% interest 
for access to money. These “‘projects’” become high priority 
items to the banker because of the profits which can be 
realized from them. And for many of us to protest these 
same “‘projects” on the streets and yet be indirectly funding 
them seems to be another one of the system’s very sick jokes... 
on us. 
The basic problem of having no opportunity to control the use 
of our money while it is in the Bank, and with no apparently 
acceptable alternative for the IRS, has provoked us to advance 
the following thought. 
At its most simple level it seems to us that the Bank could 
devise a bookkeeping method which would allow depositors a 
way to register how they would like to see their money used 
by the Bank. There could be for example on each deposit 
slip a box which if checked directed the deposited amount 
into a “People’s Project” bag. No check in the box 
indicates that the depositor leaves the use of his money up 
to the Bank’s discretion. Upon request the Bank would be. 
obligated to submit a statement as to the amount of funds 
deposited and available in the People’s bag. Periodically they 
would publish a list of those loans made so that each could 
be checked out. The People’s bag would also carry its own 
price or interest rate. This could in some measure reflect 
the money market but depositors would know that this is a 
minimum profit bag, and that the funds are to assist others 
rather than an investment for you. This method could be 
broken down even finer. Possibly on a regional level, where 
issues and concerns of a given area could be registered. If 
monies were needed to establish child-care centers or mom- 
and-pop stores because that is what the community seemed 
— 
to need then funds could be made available. Granted that you 
may have to get on a waiting list but sooner or later you would 
at least have a chance. 
Anyway, the extentions of this notion seem unlimited and we 
would like to get some feedback from someone with Banking 
know-how about the possibilities or impossibilities of this 
money is there for the Bank to lend. And lending money is how _ notion. If not this scheme then present one of your own 
— 
the Bank makes its money. The Bank takes our collective monies but what we need is something which more closely resembles 
possible for folks to have access to money. 
EPOSIT 
2522 
_ 
FOR 
OD : 
20-66 
DATE 
—_2°1/0
1B 
y, 
People’s Bank. Something which makes it a little more 
the transformer 
‘ 
a 
84 Vandewater St. 
. 
San Francisco, Ca. 94133 
Write Checks on Your Savings Account; 
il 
Earn Interest on Your Checking Account. 
= 
United Security Accounts® are a combination of savings and 
checking accounts. Interest-bearing savings (414%) serve as 
collateral for 15 to 45-day free check loans, with the obvious 
advantage that money spent is effectively earning interest. The 
— 
accounts offer unlimited free checking with no minimum 
| 
: 
balance (a $100 deposit is required to open anaccount but 
need not be maintained); in return, you have to watch out. 
ah 
for a few tricky features. When the free loan period is up, a 
loan starts costing you 9%, retroactive to the writing of the 
~ 
check, and savings are not automatically withdrawn to cover 
it. You can withdraw savings and apply the money to the loan 
yourself, though you may lose several month’s interest if you 
do; but the accounts are most satisfactory if you deposit. 
enough each month to cover the previous month’s checks. A 
deposit intended to cover a check-loan must reach the bank 
vs 
after the check has cleared; otherwise it goes to the savings 
account and the loan will remain outstanding. 
‘ioe 
The checks come with an identification card and look quite 
distinctive. Probably as a result, they are almost as easy to 
; 
cash as local checks. 
a 
The bank says the accounts are released in blocks and arenot 
j 
always available. | don’t know how much trouble they may 
be to get (I had no wait at all). Don’t send a deposit, just a letter 
of inquiry, to 
‘ 
“a 
Citizens Bank and Trust Company 
e 
Chicago 48, Illinois 
, 
Peers 
Duane Small 
ey 
Louisville, Ky. _ 
Far as | can see, you've covered Every thing but this: 
: 
vane: 
This check is written on a checking account which provided free 
225 
printed checks, free postage for deposits, free, comipete monthly 
statements that anyone can understand and...get this... Maximum 
= 
Savings Account Interest on my MAXIMUM account balance. Ali this 
plus Federal Deposit Insurance. 
, 
ee 
% 
My account has been with them for years, and | won't tell you how — 0 
much interest they’ve paid me for my Checking Account money! 
Top that! 
. 
*.: 
; 
George D. James Jr. 
"pata 
Unadilla, N.Y. 
