HOW 
Co-op Info 
Charles Edmonds reminded us that for technical information 
on starting a co-op, you can write to: 
Cooperative League of the US A 
59 East Van Buren St. 
Chicago, IIlinois 60605 
Co-op Depot Manual $3.00 
Introductory Kit $1.75 
Primer of Bookkeeping for Cooperatives $1.50 
Co-op Report $3/year (bi-monthly) 
(G (040) 
(2) 
JANOFES., 1970 
vou. 18, NO. 1 
should be” 
|] 
Wa | 
How to Adopt a Colony of Bees 
This magical method may be used for removing bees 
and their honey from an attic without the use of 
pesticides or other violence, or for adopting a colony 
from a bee-tree. All the entrances, into the colony must 
first be carefully stopped up with plaster, calking com- 
pound or other goop. A single 3/4’’diameter hole is left, 
over which a bee escape (one-way exit) is placed. 
Following this, a bee hive is strategically located with 
its entrance as close as possible, preferably within a 
few inches, of the bee escape. The hive may then be 
enticingly smeared with honey or sugar syrup on its 
landing strip and entrance. The bees will come out of 
their old home and will form a large swarm within a 
few days. At this point, a queen bee, in her cage, with 
courtiers, is suspended within the new hive. When the 
other bees learn of her presence, they will all go into 
the new hive, eat out the plug of sugar which seals the 
entrance to her royal residence, and liberate her. One 
then has a going colony of bees in the new hive. After 
a few weeks, the original colony will be quite depleted 
or almost entirely absent. At this point, the entrances 
to the attic or tree may be completely opened and the 
bees from the new hive will then go back, take all the 
honey out, and bring it into the new hive, which may 
then be moved to any convenient location. 
I tried this method on a colony of bees in my attic with 
partial success. Unfortunately the bees found a new 
way to get back into the attic under the shingles which 
I had not adequately blocked, and I was left with two 
competing colonies. However, I think the colony in my 
hive is now getting stronger, and I will eventually have 
all the bees in it. It would seem desirable to do this in 
the spring when flowers are blooming, since in the 
autumn I have found the bees are less energetic and 
have to be fed with sugar syrup. A reliable source of 
bee supplies is the Sears Roebuck Suburban and Farm 
Catalog. In order to get a catalog, one must first place 
an order at a Sears Catalog Order Desk, and if they 
think you look like a good potential customer, they 
will give you a free catalog to take home. Supplies 
arrive by mail or parcel post in less than a week, but 
queen bees are sent only from April 15 to Oct. 1, and 
take about a week and one-half to two weeks to 
arrive. 
18 
David Collins, M.D: 
San Diego, California 
‘Worms and Other Hints 
On getting “‘stuff’’...first, try to do without, or at least wait till you 
have needed it--really needed it before you get it. 2nd, MAKE IT out 
of local NATURAL materials. 3rd, if cannot make it, borrow it. 
© 
4th, buy it used and share cost with others if it’s that kind of thing. 
We've found several useful tools to help find used items. Most people 
probably know them, but here they are: 
y 
1) bulletin boards in groceries, laundramats, beadshops, bookstores, 
libraries 
2) classified ads 
3) rummage sales, garage sales advertised in papers, on bulletin 
boards, etc. 
4) used furniture stores, junk stores, trading center, etc. 
Every area has its second hand goods market if you just find it. 
Here in Lake Co. we have all the above PLUS a ‘trading post of the 
air’’, on the local radio station. Everyday from 2:30 to 3:00 
the station accepts calls from anyone selling or buying anything. 
They give details right on the air plus phone number or address. 
We've used this to locate bees, worms, a sleeping bag, rabbits, a 
cider press, burlap, manure, an Ashley wood heater for $10 and 
many other things. When we get rid of anything, we sell it thru 
the ‘trading post’’ as well. There are probably similar thingsin other 
rural areas, and maybe some cities. Maybe others could be started. 
A word on bamboo--Great. Useful while living as screen and ornament, 
useful when dead as material for thousands of items. Shoots can be 
eaten, dead leaves pefect mulch. Extremely fast growing (6 to 8 inches 
in a single day, they say.) 
Also, Luffa gourds can be used for rags, sponges, filters, mattresses, 
stuffing, shoes, etc. etc. etc. Seeds available thru most big seedmen. 
People in California should never starve in the Fall for there are tons 
of free food given away at the Fruit and Vegetable packing sheds. We 
got all the pears we wanted here in Lake Co. which is big pear 
country. They are easily dried and preserved. 
A word on Chard-- BEST ALL AROUND VEGETABLE. 
We grow it here year round because of our climate--it doesn’t mind 
either hot or cold weather. Can be used like lettuce or spinach, the 
stalks are like celery. Delicious all three ways--raw or cooked. Even 
if your climate is colder than ours, you can grow it if you just puta 
little plastic or something over it on the coldest nites. | have lots of 
chard seed free, if you'll send a stamped, self-addressed envelope. 
| also have lots of melon and squash seed free on same basis. 
Everyone should get into Tule Bundling-bundles of tules can be used 
for beds, boats, walls, roofs, etc. They grow wild in great profusion 
here at Clear Lake. The shoots can be eaten like bamboo and the 
roots like Jerusalem artichokes in the Fail. 
- 
Finally, I'd like to talk about worms, for | have iust spent 3 weeks 
getting into worms and finally decided where to get mine and am 
getting them this weekend. 
| wanted worms for lots of reasons--we needed something besides 
our rabbits and our compost piles to turn all the organic stuff we 
have into compost. Also we use worms for fishing a lot, and also we 
thought worms would be a great way to make a few extra bucks. 
We answered all the ads in the back of Organic Gardening, and 
talked to 3 or 4 local growers and here is what we learned that’s wort! 
passing on. 
You can either buy just worms or you can buy, from 2 places, worms 
plus a marketing service. This service is an agreement whereby the 
seller of the worms agrees to buy back all the worms you want to 
send him at a certain price PER POUND. Bonanza-Newton 
Bait Farms, of Elk Grove,Ca. pays $1.40 cents a pound and pays 
postage, provides containers and peat moss for shipping. Oakhaven, 
of Cedar Hill, Texas pays $2.25, provides nothing, and only agrees 
to buy for two years. Bonanza charges $375 for 100,000 worms 
and Oakhaven charges $500. 
Now, there are lots of places that sell worms. Their prices range all 
the way from $85 for 100,000 to $275 for 100,000. The great 
fluctuation is still a mystery to me. | wrote ‘Brazos Bait Farms” of 
Waco, Texas (the $85 outfit) and asked how they could 
sell so 
cheap and he wrote back and said “The main reason | sell cheaper is 
because most of the worm raisers have only a few beds of worms and 
a few dollars to operate on. We don’t have this condition. Savy?” 
| do know that a large part of it is the age of the worms. Apparently 
they are all the BREED (hybrid red wiggler) so don’t let the many 
different names fool you. If you get “breeders” you'll pay more than 
_ for just “pit run’ (or “bed run”’) which includes breeders, small 
worms, and eggs. All worms eventually become breeders, but it 
takes 90 days from hatching, so it depends on how big a hurry you're 
in. 
So, finally we decided to get pit run from a local grower for about’ 
$80 for 100,000 more or less. We live on Clear Lake and have a lot 
of places to sell our worms so don’t need the guaranteed market of 
Bonanza or Oakhaven. We can get considerably more for our worms 
by selling wholesale to bait distributers--like $4 a pound, or so. 
However, for people who are really isolated and want a minimum of 
hassle, maybe'the guaranteed market would be good. The guy we're 
buying from sells to Bonanza and says he likes it fine. 
To find out more about worms, just write the growers and they'll 
flood you with literature. 
Most worms are sold by mail which is another good possibility for 
communes and isolated individuals, but advertising requires some 
cash in advance. 
1 liked Bronwood Worm Farm's (Bronwood, Ga.) literature best--The 
real straight skinny. 
Love and Peace to All, 
Larry, Kris, & unnamed baby 
Kelley 
Route 1 
Box 180 
Kelseyville, Ca. 95451 
gf 
Ay 
+ 
&<o 
Out of Print How-To 
- 
a 
Se ie: 
3 
a 
Many valuable books for the community or homestead library 
= 
are out-of-print. A very personable and reasonable bookman, 
> 
Andrew Deskins, deals in these as well as current titles. | 
5 
bought a turn-of-the-century Farmers’ Cyclopedia in eight 
— 
volumes from him last year, and | have consulted it constantly 
= 
for everything from veterinary medecine to mixing whitewash 
to storing vegetables. A postcard will bring you his latest 
: 
listings and basic-’How to” books list and put you on his _ 
mailing roster. All books arrive well packed with postage 
paid. 
G. Wray Rominger 
a 
Liberty Hill, Texas 
Se 
ANATAEUS BOOKS 
LAKESIDE‘ OREGON 97449 
f 
“HOW TO” BOOKS AND PRACTICAL BOOKS FOR THE FARMER 
AND 1970 PIONEER 
Many of the books listed below are out-of-print. However, we try to 
; 
keep copies on hand. Prices for these books vary, depending on whether 
= 
the copies are new or used, the edition and condition, and availibility. 
ay 
Most of them are in the $5-$10 range. 
as 
We deal in new, used, and old books and out-of-print books. If yourdo 
not see the one you want listed, write us. 
Please let us know at the time you write whether you want us to find a 
copy for you if the one you want is not in stock. 
Send no money until we have quoted condition and price to you. 
Cherry, Elaine C. — Flourescent Light Gardening 
Clarkson, Rosetta E.— Herbs: Their Culture and Uses 
5 
ae 
Cobleigh— Handy Farm Devices and How to Make Them 
Coburn— The Book of Alfalfa, 
Cocannover— Farming with Nature 
Coon— Using Wayside Plants 
Dodd, Helen— The Healthful Farmhouse. By a Farmer’s Wife 
Duggar— Mushroom Growing 
Falconer— Mushrooms: How to Grow Them 
Hexamer— Asparagus 
Hill— The Homeowner’s Guide to Landscaping 
Hunter, Beatrice Trum— Gardening Without Poisons 
Hutchinson, W.Z.— Advanced Bee Culture 
Johnson— Managing a Farm 
Kains— Five Acres and Independence 
Kains— We Wanted a Farm 
Kingsbury— Deadly Harvest: A Guide to Gommon Poisonous Plants 
Lorette— The Lorette System of Pruning 
MacKenyie— Goat Husbandry 
Medsger— Edible Wild Plants 
Moreland— A Practical Guide to Successful Farming 
; 
i 
Muenscher— Poisonous Plants of the United States 
Nissley— Starting Early Vegetable and Flowering Plants Under Glass 
Ortloff & Raymore— Garden Planning and Building 
Perason— Success on the Small Farm 
Roberts— The Farmer His Own Builder 
Robinson— Plans for a Small Barn 
Robinson— The Have-More Plan 
Robinson, Wend & Whitney— Layout for a Productive Homestead 
Root, A.l. and E.R.— The ABC and XYZ of 
Bee Culture 
Scovill— Farm Accounting 
Shaw— Clovers and How to Grow Them 
Simmons, Adelina Grenier— Herb Gardening in Five Seasons 
Staten— Grasses and Grassland Farming 
- 
Stout, Ruth— A New Method Of Mulch Gardening, How to Have a 
~ 
Green Thumb Without an Aching Back 
Turkey— Dwarfed Fruit Trees 
Turkey— Vegetable Forcing 
Walsh, Helen— Starting Right with Milk Goats 
Watts— Vegetable Forcing 
Westcott, Cynthia— The Gardener’s Bug Book 
Aul— How to Build Garden Structures 
Barry— Barry’s Fruit Garden 
; 
Deere, John— The Operation, Care and Repair of Farm Machinery 
Harris— Harris on the Pig 
_ 
aes 3 
Kains— Gardening Short Cuts 
. 
Kains— Grow Your Own Fruit 
Meech— Quince Culture 
Tetlow— We Farm for a Hobby and Make It Pay 
Waugh— Fruit Harvesting, Storing, Marketing 
White— Cranberry Culture 
' 
And Others... 
i 
Developing Access to Info on 
' 
‘na 
Nutrition, Shelter, Crafts & Industry, and Education 
_ 
This group is into building a rapid-access file of practical 
information for decentralist living. Write what you know to 
— 
or request what you don’t know from: 
er 
© 
New Life Environmental Designs Institute 
5701 Mashall Foch 
New Orleans, La. 70124 
ik 
f, 
Aa 
yo 
7 
fe one a 
e 
fod 
