_ One day, half way along, the wind began 
to blow. By 25mph Andy had both blowers 
on to give the pillow maximum hardness, 
__ lest it cave and take off like a sail. The 
__ wind increased, a dust storm now. 
_ Barbara’s typewriter had a heat-stroke in 
the sun, so we moved it and her to the 
_ shadier side of things. Suddenly, with a 
_ thrilling SPUNG,-one of the anchor lines 
_ let go, the vinyl! floor lifted and tossed 
_ Barbara and her composer and table 
_ toward the center of the pillow. She 
_ wasall right, and so was the composer 
_ (testimonial.for IBM), but things were 
Inflatocookbook 
Curtis, Joe, and Andy proudly lead their 
dome from temporary to permanent camp. 
It fit Fred’s truck snugly but had to be 
lifted over road embankments. 
T is “book’’ is a collection of statements, facts, artifacts, symbollized 
experiences, images, tools, hype, love, and hope from a group called 
ANT FARM, based in Sausalito, California. It is an incredible 
getting a bit loose for work, and the 
wind. was still increasing. We evacuated 
the pillow and played on top of its now 
awesome height. 
. 
Strangely, it was the lee anchor which 
busted (the cable slipped through its U-bo!/t 
splice). Which meant that possibly the 
strongest pressure was from lift, the pillow 
acting as a wing. When we tied our truck 
to the net to act as temporary anchor, one 
gust picked the truck up and moved it 
three feet. 
But these things I wonder about, and hereby-cast as a challenge on the 
information inflato-network: 
Bud 
DeZonia 
They do not deal with electricity. What I mean is: the one flaw in it 
all is that a FAN is required (I flash on a year 3,001 “‘church’---an 
America’s most popular dome, the 
Fuller sun dome, plans for $5 from 
Popular Science. This one made of ’ 4 
inch thin-wall conduit frame bolted together 
with thumbscrews and wingnuts, single 
i 
layer 10 mil vinyl skin, suspended inside 
the frame at each intersection.’ (Andy) 
Running Pressures 
These are data | acquired using a Dwyer 460 Air Flow 
Meter, which cost $14.00 from Store Plumbers 
in San Francisco (call Dwyer, Inc. for other 
-distributors) This is a very light, handy, and 
accurate guage, measuring from .01" to 1” 
static pressure. It also measures air flow in feet 
per minute, so you can use it to check the output 
of your fans or blowers and to check the wind- 
speed outside (if there isn’t too much dust) 
—.07" to .12” static pressure was comfortable 
running pressure in no wind. 
° 
—.5"’ pressure.is needed to maintain the shape of 
the pillow against a 40-45 MPH wind. 
—.45" pressure overstressed the sewn connections 
on our strap net, where the strapping joins a “‘D”’ 
ring (at each auger) We'lf reinforce these places with 
stronger thread. 
collection of pages, inserted in a vinyl-plastic folder. 
“Pages”’ means: all the high-tech stuff you need—rope strengths, 
holding-down-anchors, types of plastics, edges, shapes, joints, blowers, 
wind-control stuff, heat-sunshine stuff, geometrics, etc.—to do it 
yourself; fantasies—whole environments, undulating enclosures, giant 
snakes and 2-headed turtles; catalogues of membranes and trips, the 
other groups of the growing “‘inflato-network”’; a call for feedback- 
uformation-exchange on inflatables—the surfacing of a new, international 
network collection point—the new way of getting things together 
WITHOUT MEDIA RIP—OFFS. 
‘ 
] thing like this book has ever been done—not even the cute 
beriments, the “magazines”’ that come in boxes. 
I 
tried reading it in bed. Disaster. The pages fell all around, elbows in 
bed-mates ears, a sense of losing some crucial sequence. Then, later, I 
opened it on the living-room floor. Now, what was before an awe at 
4] 
the 
1920-barnstorming-old-timey-baling-wire-pilot sense I got from 
ese guys—instead of that, or along with that, is a clear forward 
erence about what I want to do about building my own spaces, for 
ew bucks and some plastic. It just came to me, into my consciousness, 
1 all those trips on my floor. The book works. You have to spread 
out and get into it, 
ve drawings are clear, the graphics a total, mind-blowing trip. I have 
e sense of being givén everything that can be symbollized about the 
latable field, I can feel the enhancement of the new life styles that 
5 
th /pe of building brings—but more than that, that the way-these 
ys 
live with this stu iff-—their nomadicry, their PRESUMPTION 
esthetic environment to go with their work towards a surviving 
ment. . 
- 
vret 
inflatable within several environment controlled inflatables—worshipping 
[t was the men’s dormitory (distinct from 
the higher tone married housing), it slept 
17 at one point---we had vistors---and 
became pretty cushy. Since it was below 
the hot springs, water was run through 
two water beds, one warm, one cold. All 
attempts at non-smoky fire in the dome 
failed until the stove pipe and-hood was 
lowered right into the ground. Ground 
pipe on left is for draft to fireplace. 
Dome detail: Sinch metal discs, pop-viveted 
througnthe viny| skin, holding 
parachute 
Bite eeieaes around Gat jot, 
this ancient 1970's fan). The fan-—it is the source of all good in 
f 
inflatables. And I wonder---the fan-supported inflatable is yet to be 
pate cot 
OH 
natural wind-supported inflatable as an outboard motor to a sailboat, 
€ wrinkes w. 
Qx4 Ay wrap 
poly 
as the vibrating Piper Club is to the sail-plane. True, inflatables are 
tend to spread 
JAD 
liberating; but they are also desperately hooked to the umbilicale cord 
and leak 
which is connected to Con-Edison, etc. 
air 
3 
vig stake 
And, stretching 
for another concern, not dealt with: the smell. The 
om 
vinyl smells manufactured. Not like a natural wood-cradle smell of 
Not rEC 
mended 
FRAMED EDGE 
woods and hand-sweat, sawdust and the human labor of love; but 
like the acrid chemical smell of the solutions used to preserve the 
larger mammals in zoological supply houses, cadaver rooms of 
' medical schools...Hudson, Chip, Joe,etc.-—deal with this please. 
(I want to wake up with a combination of Rasberry-balsam wafting 
through the fan.) 
Finally, the cold. How do you heat the damn things at night? As a fire- 
sign person, how can you live without fire in the cave? 
Robert Greenway 
Inflatocookbook 
$3.00 (includes forthcoming Supplement) 
from: 
ANT FARM 
247 Gate 5 Road 
. 
Sausalito, California 94965 
ers, net, and earth-ai 
pentapus) made to order. 
40’ VINYL PILLOW Dielectrically welded viny! pillow with double blow- 
anchors. 2 doors, variety of colors and weight 
vinyl. $2,000-2,500. Rents for $150/day. Other sizes and shapes (see 
, 43 
