Gardener’s Abstracts 
Gardener’s Abstracts is a quarterly guide to all the gardening 
literature that is published in the English language. Actually 
it is more than a guide, it is a constantly updated handbook; 
the abstracts are not simple descriptions of articles, they are 
careful summaries of articles. Seldom need one go beyond the 
quintessence herein presented, but, if it is necessary, the Santa 
Barbara Public|Library will provide free copies of any articles 
- 
c 
1 
abstracted, The range of contents is impressive: trees, shrubs, 
about the folk arts including the pottery made at Jugtown. He 
} 
; 
pa 
| 
suggested I 
write you a little of the history of the area and the 
vegetables and flowers, soils and fertilizers, andscaping, culture 
| reasons for his and my deep interest in the continuation of the 
methods; conservation and ecology; natural and public domains; | tradition embodied in this pottery. 
diseases, weeds, ie ee es cede inele i ioe ace 
s 
The first potter in the area was operating a shop here in 1750 and 
control; and FeviGws of new 
books, 
Tor instance. u t ere, 1S 
other potters settled here shortly after. These people were escaping 
no other publication that performs this service; this periodical 
the eye of the king’s governor in Virginia and they stopped when they 
manages to educate you, keep you up-to-date, and make 
found the Piedmont clays. They came from Staffordshire and 
interesting 
reading 
in the 
process. Each issue is fully 
indexed; 
brought with them the ground-hog kilns, lead-glazed earthenware and 
aie 1s'h subject Wey ee author index, anda eae or 
salt-glazed stoneware. They left England just before Staffordshire 
Pees 
ware became so ornate and in the extreme isolation--not subject to 
periodicals, as well as a table of contents. Futhermore, the 
extraneous influences—carried on a simple, useful and beautiful 
editor is a radiological botanist. 
pottery style. They were filling the needs of frontier farmers, their 
‘ 
s 
Yeon 
i 
neighbors near and far. They were not competing in the marketplace 
The publishers, Leisure Abstracts, have examination copies 
of the growing cities. The rural people wanted the same thing 
available at $1 apiece. 
generation after generation for the containing of milk, tea, pickles, 
whiskey, for the rising of cream, the cooling of water, the cooking of 
You should see my tomatoes... 
: 
David Hall 
Santa Barbara, California 
Dirt Dishes From Jugtown 
. Dear Mr. Brand, 
Ralph Rinzler of the Smithsonian called me yesterday after what he 
described as a great conversation with you on Friday, October Phe 
chicken pies, to hold candles, to mark graves, And so the traditon 
lasted. The potteries expanded in numbers and size (they have 
generally been family trades accompanied by farming passed from 
father to son and, more recently at least also from mother to 
daughter) when the post civil war depression made corn unsaleable 
and it was turned into whiskey. Some 50 potteries hereabouts then 
made jugs for that trade. 
Where For Kitchen Stuff? 
Please some talk on kitchen tools and where to get 
them at reasonable prices. You can make the best 
food and negate its value with aluminium cookware. 
Is there stainless steel better than Revere Ware? 
Where’s a good source for earthenware? One for 
wooden utensils? 
: 
Judee LeKashman 
Albion, California 
With the recovery of farm prices and eventually prohibition the 
number of potteries declined and these few were in danger of dying 
because “white chiney” and glass canning jars had become available. 
The Busbees, who built Jugtown Pottery, discovered some of the old 
sytle ware in this still (1915) extremely isolated spot. People were 
adventuring then to come here from Raleigh. The Busbees thought 
this tradition should not slip quietly out of existence and saw to it 
that it did not, first by marketing the pottery in New York, then by 
building this pottery and having it produced here. 
Rec 
Some of the forms we make here today are linked way baci 
English pottery, some were the development of a settler 
have evolved in these 200 years and some are being desi 
present needs. The chicken pie dishes we make are iden 
ones being excavated at Jamestown, Virginia which ar 
to be the earliest (non-Indian) pottery form made 
in 
Ame 
jars and jugs of salt glaze stoneware and kitchen earthen 
earliest types of pieces made. Other simple and useful fo’ 
added over the years, such as casseroles, vases (as people 
flowers), and platters (as food was more plentiful). An. 
The Cookbook’s Cookbook 
My thing being cooking—I’m letting you in on something that your 
conscience MUST compel you to share. 
Several years ago I was browsing through the high-priced cookbooks 
in a large Department store. In several expensive books on Southern 
cooking 
I found most of the better recipes were credited to the’ 
“Purefoy Hotel Cookbook”. My mother is from Alabama and 
I knew 
she had the original. I wrote to the small town in Alabama wherein it 
originated to see if there were any old copies around. Ho! The little 
unassuming classic is not for $10-20 but $2.95 from: 
Mrs. Robert P. Purefoy 
P.O. Box 98 
Talladega, Alabama 35160 
This book is the real thing and if you ever wondered what happened 
to old-fashioned cooking and household knowledge-it’s in this little 
book. This is the Old South, meaning fancy cleaners (that pollute) 
weren't available and “store bought” goods are limited. Included hints 
on cleaning, sewing, making wines, etc. and has the rather unusual 
virtue of being authentic. Also excellent tips on stain removal-- 
great for those of us who can’t or won’t just throw away and replace. 
One note—The basic ingredients called for are generally “unprocessed”, 
esp. hams. The hams in the book refer to hard “country ” hams, now 
considered a luxury. (By the way—for those who are involved in raising 
everything—in the Old South, everyone didn’t have a smokehouse. 
Hams and bacon were often “plain”, i.e. sugar cured. They were rubbed 
down daily. with a 50/50 sugar and salt mixture and shelved for air to 
circulate around until hardening. After each rub—sprinkle well with 
pepper.) 
Also: The Joy of Cooking; I 
suggest that people try to find old 
editions, preferably WW II vintage. The recipes include many extras 
on saving money due to rationing, Besides, it’s cheaper used, 
Jerry & Maria Merchant 
Tampa, Fla. 
New Colleges 
There is no New Schools Exchange for colleges, but Lisa Fischel and 
anyone else interested can begin to construct one by looking at the 
following three pieces of the action—a la carte, so to speak: 
—The Union for Research and Experimentation in Higher Education, 
based at Antioch College, Yellow Springs, Ohio, is more or less a 
network of schools that are accredited but experimental (Antioch, 
Goddard, etc.) 
—The September issue of—believe it or not-Esquire had a good 
piece on experimental schools, with details and addresses. Places 
like Bensalem, Prescott, New College, etc. (The same tssue contains 
a slick, very Esquire-esque treatment of the communal scene, 
featuring some folks living in abandoned mine shafts. Also 
mentioned Lama, Libra, and some of the other New Mexico 
communities.) 
—The Center for Educational Reform, ostensibly part of the 
National Student Association, keeps tab on free universities 
around the country, including those where credit from the mother 
university is granted for free u. studies.-Good literature, too, on 
the educational reform movement in the colleges. 2115 S Street, 
N.W., Washington D.C, 20008. Larry Magid is the director. 
Anyone interested in progressive colleges ought to check with 
Movement people in his or her area—there is usually a lot of subliminal 
data found among politicos. 
Since I’m still in the city I think you ought to try to get more tools 
relating to city problems—Grow Your Own was a jewel; we need 
more like it. Also, can anybody tell me where I can get a list of 
operating switchboards, and some stuff on how to start one? 
Parting shot: how about a page on low-cost printing methods? 
[See last Catalog next summer. 
—SB] 
Go well, 
Bob Fried 
Philadelphia 
Catalogo 
| should like to suggest the following catalogue for your Whole 
Earth Catalogue: El Centro Comercial of Box 1074, San 
Antonio, Texas. 
Many of us who live close to the border of Mexico are 
bilingual. Ask for CATALOGO 1966. It’s free! 66 pages and 
contains: 
Catalogs of books for sale dirt cheap--in Spanish e.g. 
Ocult Science 
Music 
and Songs. 
“The head of Pancho Villa” (someone cut off his head) 
“Huckleberry Finn” 
Poetry 
Medical Guides 
Medical Plants _ 
Sex Education 
Catholic Religious Articles & Books 
Guitars & Acordeon 
Radio, Auto, TV Repair Books 
Off Beat Books e.g. Mexican Penal Code & 1917 Constitution 
Mexican Playing cards---deck of 40 
Service is fair. Everything is encono-priced and of Economy 
quality. 
J.K. Lassig 
Houston, Texas 
chronology we don’t have. But we do know that any 
response to a need. The function came first; there was 
probably no inclination to ornateness. Playfulness shou 
in the often whimsical, sometimes tender, occasionall: 
drawings in cobalt which decorate many salt glaze pieces. 
We make now around 70 forms, many in 4 or 5 different 
some in both earthenware and stoneware. We have 3 eartl 
glazes (no longer lead, but clear, showing the color of the 
stoneware glazes including the now quite rare salt glaze. 
own clays locally and process them. A horse turns the ; 
grinds the clay. The pottery is all hand turned on awh 
fired to harden, glazed and burned a second time; the 
oil-burning kilns to about 2000 degrees and the stonewa 
. burning groundhog kilns to above 2300 degrees 
the m 
temperatures of salt. 
; 
ae 
Libertarian, Plus 
One of the Three Laws on page 11 (of July Supplement) was actu 
from Heinlein’s The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, a far better book tha 
Stranger, even if it does show a terrible lack of knowledge about thi 
state of computer technology. Story is a blue-print for an anarchist 
revolution. One slogan is TRANSTAAFL, or There Ain't No Such 
Thing As A Free Lunch. Also contains the concept of “line marriag 
and a wonderful computer maned Mycroft, who makes the whole 
— 
thing happen. 
Another fine science fiction book is by the immensely funny Ray 
Russell. Although ‘The Great Explosion” is out of print, any good 
used book store should|have a copy of one of the paperback editions. 
— 
The anarchists have a planet to themselves, and there’s no way itcan 
be taken over, even without weapon defenses, | know one Nomad 
= 
living in a van in Berkeley who buys up every copy he can find and © 
passes them out to worthy people. It’s one of the great tracts against 
government. 
ear: 
The greatest of all is by a fine old American named Lysander Spooner, 
— 
the same man who is responsible for the word “spoonerism”.He 
argues (in No Treason and other books) that any government is coe 
that it operates by force, and therefore is iNigitimate. Yourlocal 
library won't have it. Try writing the Libertarian Anarchist Book 
Service, GPO Box 2487, New York, NY 10001. 
‘ 
Efficacy, which you list in one of the early WECs has moved to 
Box 1747, Harlingen, Texas. Those who are really interested in hid 
out from Big Brother should contact Preform/Inform Box 607 Grants 
Pass, Oregon 97526. They have a little information and publication 
j 
and about those who are doing it. $2. 
; 
: 
The theory of libertarian action is all in Libertarian Connection,.$ 
from Lisa Dawn, PO Box 90913, Worldway Postal Center, Los Ange 
Calif, 90009. That provides 200 pages worth (about 4 year’s subsc ri 
and the right to have two mimeo stencils of your own run off and in- 
cluded, provided you’re a like-minded seeker of individual freedom.., 
Also. The fastest decent soup that can be made: heat 1 can stewed 
tomatoes and add % teaspoon soda, It will fizz and the acid wil 
neutralize. Then add milk, warm and serve. Onions go well. So 
thyme... 
yrs 
‘ 
hice 
