Kesey: Neal Cassady one time, he was driving in down-town Santa 
Cruz, he was just so wired, he made a U-turn in front of a bookstore. 
See, you're doing a thing like Have you quit beating your wife... 
answer yes or no. So this cop stops him, comes up and says, what are 
“you high on? And Cassady says, Obitrol, officer, obitrol. And the cop 
says, Alright, get out. So Cassady got out, and he starts to search 
Cassady, and Cassady reaches into his pockets and both pockets were 
were full of pills. He grabbed the pills in his hands in the bottom of 
his pockets, and pulled them out, and the change spread everywhere, 
and he shoved the pills back in there, and began to pick up the change 
and run around. Until finally he just kind of faded away. There’s no 
sense in going against it. It's a look in your eyes and a tone in your 
voice, man. The revolution is getting away from that. It’s getting so 
that whenever you go up to anybody what comes off with you is a 
good feeling, so that there’s nothing for them to poke against. 
Argus: Do you think policemen and Richard Nixon and the rich people 
who run the country relate to that? 
Kesey: They’ re people, man, and as soon as you draw the line and say 
they aren’t people, then you.. 
Argus: Who’s drawing the line? Who’s putting people in jail? Who’s 
killing people in the streets? 
Kesey: What difference does it make? 
Argus: You don’t make any distinction between oppressor and oppressed? 
Kesey: You're talking about shoulds, and you're talking about where 
things ought to be, instead of where we are as where we got to work 
from. It's where we are. 
Argus: Don’t you have any vision? 
Kesey: You ask me if I've got any vision. I’ve got three kids. | mean 
I'm invested in this world. | prune my trees even though I’m not 
going to have fruit for two years in a row. Because I’m doing all | can 
to try to build a better world. All the time... 
Argus: I can digit, but the thing that means... 
Kesey: The thing that you want is something that you're going to 
have to go find somebody else to get it from, because | can’t give it 
to you. 
Argus: I ain’t asking for it from you, I’m asking... 
Kesey: You're damn near demanding it. 
Argus: I’m demanding answers, because I think you have information 
and I think people can relate to that. And I think that personal liber- 
ation is fine, but it has to be related to liberating everybody on the 
planet. 
Kesey: No, listen, what this country needs is sanity. Individual sanity, 
and all the rest will come true. 
Argus: Bullshit 
Kesey: You can’t do it any other way. You work from the heart out, 
you don’t work from the issue down. 
Argus: You don’t think it’s a heartfelt thing, making a revolution. 
You don’t thimk that means anything? 
Kesey: Not when it tightens your stomach like that. 
Argus: I can dig that we shouldn’t have tight stomachs, man, but who’s 
giving us a tight stomach? 
Kesey: | had to spend 6 months in jail, taking all the stuff that you’re 
talking about, firsthand, over and over, until you realize that what 
they want you to do is what you're doing. You're going for the fried 
ice cream, as they call it. And as long as that action is taking place, as 
long as you take the gauntlet, you'll have somebody to slap you. 
Argus: To make an analogy, John Sinclair, when he started out in 1964, 
was all peace and love, good vibes, one of the first hippies in Detroit. 
He didn’t want to slap anybody down. 
Kesey: Cassady served 18 months for 2 joints. He never mentioned it. 
There was no bitterness. There was no complaint about it at all. It 
was unjust and everybody knew that and accepted that and just worked 
from there, 
Argus: You see, Sinclair’s in jail right now and he’s gonna be there for 
10 years. To get back to the original thing I was trying to say, because 
T really want to get something out of it. That’s all that happened, he 
was peace, love, and good vibes, and what happened is they jumped 
on him immediately for that. 
Kesey: That's the way it’s been for thousands of years. | mean... 
Argus: So how do you change it? 
Kesey: Just the way he’s doing it. 
Argus: By, being in jail? 
Kesey: No, but being in jail, sometimes that’s what happens to you. 
Nobody guaranteed you it was going to be easy. 
Argus: So we should do nothing to get him out. We should leave him 
in there and let it run its course? 
Kesey: | didn’t say nothing to get him out. It's karma. You just look 
into people’s eyes and you ask yourself is their karma going up or down. 
And you look around, and for a while the karma of the nation was 
going down. But you look now, more and more people...you look 
into their eyes and they're on to it. They’re on to what's going on: 
And they say all right, you just don't kick a dog every day, every 
second. Where you are, you don’t suddenly get wrapped up in the 
media issue. Keep away from the media, man, cause that’s what 
done it. 
Argus: Keep away from the media? 
Kesey: The media‘s what's done it. It’s that thing right there 
(pointing to the microphone) what's done it. I'll tell you. | know 
because |’ve been on the end of it so much. The media does a thing; 
it’s like this... 
Argus: How about making your own media? 
Kesey: That's what we try to do. That's what the underground really 
is, but as soon as the media finds it and shines that light on it, then 
you have to move, because they've got you. Every time. You look 
at the early pictures of Hemingway, because of who he’s writing to. 
And as he becomes famous, and you see those pictures of him, and 
you see those people come in with cameras and take pictures of him. 
And notepads and asking questions. He gradually changes so that he’s 
not talking to his audience anymore and he begins to talk to this other 
thing, and he’s|getting feedback from that. 
Argus: All right... 
Kesey: But as soon as he loses that audience, he loses his most valuable 
thing. And you see those later pictures of him, and he knows what's 
happening and he’s trying to find it again. He’s trying to find that thing 
he once talked to. It doesn’t make any difference whether it's the 
under-ground media or the New York Times, it’s the same trip. And 
because any time that you’re trying to put it into another 
moment, it’s like you're going through life picking stuff 
out and what you end up with is a corpse. Every time 
you leave a corpse behind you. 
Argus: You see what I’m trying to do in this is not leave 
any corpses. What I came to get is information...the way 
that people can relate to ideas, the way people can make 
themselves stronger to go out and build this revolution, 
Carolyn Cassady: “Neal in heaven—an old car and a girl.” 
“Now you just dig them in front. They have worries, they’re counting the 
miles, they’re thinking about where to sleep tonight, how much money for 
gas, the weather, how they’ll get there — and all the time they’ll get there 
anyway, you see. But they need to worry and betray time with urgencies 
false and otherwise, purely anxious and whiny, their souls really won’t be 
at peace unless they can latch on to an egtablished and proven worry and 
having once found it they assume facial expressions to fit and go with it, 
which is, you see, unhappiness, and all the time it all flies by them and they 
know it and that too worries them no end.” 
Neal Cassady 
to Jack Kerouac 
from: 
Scenes plone the Road 
Photographs 
Compiled by Ann Charters 
1970; 56 pp. 
Portents/Gotham Book Mart 
the Desolation Angels 1944-1960 
We got our copy (was it $3.95?) from: 
Book People 
2940 7th Avenue 
Berkeley, Ca: 94710 
' of Springfield Creamery Jugs. It started out and it was the 
* who were getting called by the ref. And when the ref calls, 
that the ref wasn’t just. calling the fouls on them but 
< 
Kesey: Well, I’m trying to tell you as much as! know 
about it. And one of the things is just that if we can get 
— 
so that we’re not distracted by that camera, cause as soon 
as someone starts taking pictures of me, | stumble. As 
soon as someone takes that microphone and... 
Try it ...what did you do this morning? 
Argus: I ate breakfast. 
Kesey: Then what? 
Argus: Then I started working on the newspaper, be- 
cause we have an issue coming out pretty soon. 
Kesey: And tell me how it relates to the Revolution. 
Argus: Well, what we’re trying to do is put down essential 
information for people to do and it takes a lot of time 
and struggle and effort but we think it’s worth it because 
when it comes out people can dig what’s there. 
Kesey: Has John Sinclair heard about it? 
Argus: John Sinclair was one of the founders of Argus, and 
of what the paper represents, the White Panther Party. 
Kesey: Okay, now you see what | mean, you felt it there. 
‘ 
Argus: Well, I don’t know. 
Kesey: You did feel it , man...you popped to it, and you 
felt it. That’s what I'm talking about, it’s human. Just keep 
human. As long as we're human, we're all right. (Gestures 
with mike) It’s this thing, once we got that in between 
us, we're talking through a filter. that dehumanizes. 
Argus: Well, you see,not everybodyin the world can 
come here and listen to you talking right now. 
’ 
Kesey: You can’t talk to everybody in the world. There’s 
nothing | have to say to everybody in the world. 
Argus: There should be something you have to say to 
everybody in our culture that wants to try to relate 
. 
to you. 
Kesey: There was a wise man who lived up in the 
mountains and all these people wanted him to drop into 
the mosque and give them the word on Sunday, so he 
said all right. He showed up on Sunday and there was 
this huge crowd of people and he got up there and he 
says, Good people, do you know what I’m goingto 
.- 
talk to you about?, and they all shouted back No and 
he says Ignorant People, and he turns around and he 
leaves. And so they go back up and say Wait a minute, 
man, you came through too fast for us, drop in again 
next Sunday...and he says all right. So next Sunday 
he’s down there and he starts, Good people, do you 
know what I’m going to talk to you about? and this 
time they‘re ready for him and they all yell Yes and 
he says Good! and he turns around and he leaves. 
And so finally they say, Look, man, just one more 
time, cause somehow it’s slipping past us. So he 
comes down the third time and starts up there, 
Good people, and this time they're ready for him... 
Some of us do and some of us don’t. Good! Let those 
who do communicate their knowledge with those who 
do not. 
Argus: Well, let’s do that. Communicate your knowledge 
with those who do not. 
Kesey: | just did it. It’s true, man, it’s all |’ve got, | mean, 
| know more about my brother’s creamery that | do about 
the revolution. You can‘t expect me to know stuff about... 
| don‘t know that stuff. 
| live out there in a tiny little town. My wife goes to 
school twice a week. She’s a librarian. We have a team 
laughingstock of the basketball league because there’s 
all these long-haired freaks and spades with Afro cuts 
too much of his fascism shows for him to be comfortable 
about it. He points the finger and then realizes he’s held 
his finger out there too long and all the spades see it and 
hs 
everybody sees it and as soon as they go againsthim and 
play against him, they get their good game...but as soon 
as they get ahead they fold: Resist not evil. As soon as 
- 
= 
you resist evil, as soon as it’s gone, you fold, because 
; 
it's what you're based on. Finally, the spades realized 
on the whole team, on the whole idea of the team, on 
the way we moved. Every time we’d get out there and 
play these guys who were against us, we played against 
them in their own style of game, you know...it has to do 
with the way a person stands and the way he moves... 
instead of just bopping out there in the field, on the 
court...as soon as that movement took place out there 
in the court we'd win; but when we got angry, and got 
“tapes 
against them, they were better at it than we were. 
; 
The guys that you’re opposing in this revolution thing, 
it’s not arevolution,it’s ancient. 
Argus: If you resent it, and you think it limits you so 
much, why did you let Tom Wolfe write the book — 
(The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test)? Did that inhibit 
you at all, because obviously that turned on millions of 
other people who otherwise wouldn’t have heard about 
it. 
% 
Kesey: I'll tell you a little story. Wolfe was there and this 
was towards the end of the time he was hanging around. 
We were up at my brother's farm, Space-Heater House, 
and we were moving this statue up onto the wall, and he 
Ss 
had painted it with pigment, he hadn‘t used the right 
or 
stuff, so the paint had never dried. Tom Wolfe was out 
raha 
there, and he had his notepad, 
and me and Ramrod were 
trying to move this thing up on the wall, and obviously 
we needed help. And there was only the three of us, and 
- 
Tom Wolfe was out there, and he was dressed the way 
whe ee a 
he always dresses, in his blue suit, and we finally said, 
2 
ee 
Goddammit, Tom, give us a hand. So he put his notepad 
te 
ae 
down, and he went to put it up there, and he got this 
swatch of red paint of the side of his coat, of oil pigment. 
oe 
We stood there, in this moment of realization, and | told him, 
— 
Do 
you just can’t expect to fool with tt without gettingit 
= 
= 
- 
© 
on you, And that's the last time | ever saw Tom Wotfe. 
Aa 
But | love him. 
‘ 
. ta a 
(ed. This last paragraph comes to you courtesy of the Compendium — 
dod 
Dictation Service; Compendium Bookshops 240 Camden High Street, 
Stock Argus and other American underground papers) 
— 
oh 
Reprinted by Whole Earth (air Kesey s permision) from: "I 
Bitman (No. 2) 
~ 
July 1970 
asta 
z 
£ 1/10 for 12 issues from 141 Westbourne Park Road 
eet 
ae 
London W.11, ENGLAND 
aoa 
’ 
7 
ie 
‘ 
ia 
c 
bas 
