. 
is converted to the mixed anhydride of lysergic and trifluoroacetic 
evaporating the solvent in vacuo at a temperature below about 0 
water. The chloroform solution is then dried over anhydrous NagSO4 
_ bookroom. 
Again, thank you for your interest and concern for the inmates. 
in Berkeley. The book will have definitive review worthy of 
_ Preparation 2 
, Step I---Use Yellow Light 
with dry ice. To the suspension is added a cold (-20 degrees) solution 
- The solution of mixed anhydrides in acetontrile from Step | is added to 
450ml of acetonitrile containing 7.6 g of diethylamine. The mixture is 
In your Spring Catalog on page 99 you said you would print an article 
~ who wrote that book, a fine pharmacognocist, gave us all rights to 
"| studied the catalog but could find no reference to LSD. The 
demand is great and supply short. 
Love 
Len 
Johannesburg 
South Africa 
The answer to your prayers is the Psychedelic Guide to 
Preparation of the Eucharist, now available again. You can 
get them from us for $3.95. We get them from Book People 
it in the LAST CATALOG this July. 
5.36 g of d-lysergic acid are suspended in 4125 ml of acetonitrile and the 
suspension cooled to about -20 degrees C ina bath of acetone cooled 
of 8.82 g of trifluroroacetic anhydride in 75ml of acetonitrile. The 
mixture is allowed to stand at -20 debrees for about 1% hours during 
which time the suspended material dissolves, and the d-lysergic acid 
~ acids. The mixed anhyride can be separated in the form of an oil by 
degrees. Everything must be kept anydrous. 
Step I1---Use Red Light 
held in the dark at room temperature for about 2 hours. The acetonitrile 
is evaporated in vacuo, leaving a residue of LSD-25 plus other impurities. 
~ The residue is dissolved in 150m! of choroform and 20m of ice water. 
The chloroform layer is removed and the aqueous portions are 
“combined and in turn, washed with four 50m! portions of ice-cold 
_and evaporated in vacuo. 
Figure 
1 
Rubber tube for 
RAlcchol 
|. 
injection 
Dear Whole Earth Catalog People, 
about the Guide to the Eucharist if it came out again. Well, the guy 
% distribution and printing, so please write: 
Heaven-Sent 
- 3454 Franklin 
Dallas, Texas 
so we can know what we need to do. We would like to get into print 
in the next supplement. Please write soon. Without Dope there can be 
no way to catch the future. —Anon. 
Bye. 
P.S. Come down to Austin for BBQ and beer. Your always 
WELCOME. 
: 
Heaven-Sent 
RONALD REAGAN, Governor 
Donate to Prisons 
Dear Mr. Smith: 
This opportunity is taken to thank you for your recent 
generous donation of copies of the Whole Earth Catalog. 
- Were received and are now in the libraries, science room and 
L.S.Nelson, Warden 
‘sie 
K.W. Hayball 
SS 
Superintendent of Education 
“aa 
Dept. of Corrections 
Lag 
i 
CALIFORNIA STATE PRISON 
f 
San Quentin, California 94964 
WHOLE EARTH has had an amazing amount of correspondence 
from prisons, a lot of it really useful to us. When we over- 
printed about 40,000 on the Fall “69 CATALOG, JD worked 
on donating the surplus to various prisons. Most refused, for 
accepted. Wed like to see various periodicals send their 
_returns as a matter of course to schools and prisons. 
—SB 
COMPLAINTS 
Westwood Ceramics 
We have been buying ceramic supplies from Westwood Ceramics for 
more than a year now and feel it’s about time for an appraisal of their 
services, 
Our first experience with them was a visit to their City of Industry, 
Calif. offices. On that occasion we purchased nearly $100 worth of 
ceramic miscellaney; tools, oxides, basic glaze ingredients, and 
several hundred pounds of stoneware throwing body. After waiting 
more than 1% hours for them to assemble our order, we found that 
nearly 1/3 of the items included were incorrect. 
Since they are the major supplier of ceramic supplies in the west (the 
only one in the So. Cal. area to my knowledge) we've continued to 
purchase from them. This is not a result of satisfaction, but of 
necessity. 
Their throwing bodies are grossly inconsistent. Our various batches 
have been too wet, too dry, lumpy, and tend to fire out either too 
high or too low. The grog content (claimed to be 10%) seems to 
range between 5% and 25%. 
In our discussion with other potters we find that we're not alone in 
our complaints, We've also heard of Westwood making errors in billing 
and shipping although we’ve not experienced any ourselves. 
Despite these frustrations, Westwood has the most complete selection 
of stoneware oriented items in addition to a good supply of low 
fine clays and glazes, casting materials, and mold making equipment. 
And their prices are good. 
Chick & Barb 
Portland, Oregon 
Bad Language 
All you proposal and article writers, we ‘re on to you. 
As soon as we hear the term “life style’, we know 
somebody’s bullshitting. 
—SB 
Gilmore Looms 
...Lastly, you are advertising LeClerc Looms, which, are not 
the best, merely the most advertised. | am an experienced 
weaver and have woven on most brands. | heartly recommend 
GILMORE for anyone who is actually interested in weaving, 
rather than just playing-like. They are less expensive, better 
made, and much more efficient both for set-up and during 
weaving. The harness frames lift right out for quick heddle 
changes between weaving projects, a unique warp advance 
system is used, the rising shed is sure and versatile, work- 
manship is unsurpassed. When speed is important these 
features are vitally important. | have an 8-harness 46" 
very heavy ridgid Gilmore ($350) [or compact $315]. 
LeClerc’s comparable model Nilart 8-harness 45” is $457 (!) 
and inferior. Grok on that and then send for a brochure: Mr. 
E.E. Gilmore, Gilmore Looms, 1032 North Broadway, 
Stockton, California, 95205. 
Truely, 
Don & Mikal Deese 
Vancouver, B.C. 
In last issue you.had a recommendation for Marie Pri’s book The Story- 
of Language. Robt. A. Hall, Jr. (in the bibliography) says this about 
that book: “[Pri’s book and another, Bedmer’s Loom of Language] 
are attempts at popularization which caters-to all the traditional 
misconceptions we have tried to refute: perscriptive dogmatism, mis- 
understanding of the relation of writing to language, and ethnocentric 
value judgements. Both are prententious, full of out-of-date notions, 
misinformation and misinterpretation, and are wholly misleading.” 
Maybe you'd care to print that in a supplement. 
Yours, 
Barbara Weaver 
Carmel, California 
