Snowshoes 
Winter 
in the woods. Snowmobiles too noisy, ugly and maybe fuck up 
the ecology. Cross country skis dandy but too awkward for working 
(Cutting trees, working in brush, etc. ) Best snowshoes I’ve ever seen 
are Walter York shoes. Better made than Canadian shoes which are 
the most often sold. York starts by cutting and drying his own ash. 
Steams and bends the ash. Makes his own rawhide and his own 
harnesses. The shoes are fucking beautiful. Light and very strong. 
Good tools. He'll even sell you shoes with turned-up toes 
(Alaska type) but you'll have to persuade him because turned-up toes 
slide you backwards down-hills. He also reluctanly admits that 
neoprene is maybe better than rawhide for webbing because wet 
snow don’t stick to neoprene. He sells both. Prices about 
~ 
comparable to usual prices, Abt. $30 plus $4 for the bindingd. He 
custom makes shoes to order and specific need. (Heavy people need 
bigger shoes. Some people want a quick-release harness etc.) He says 
he fixes shoes too but he hates to work on Canadian ones. After using 
his shoes, I can’t blame him. 
Good luck to the Catalog & Godspeed, 
Snee & Anne Ashley 
N.Y., NeYs 
MODIFIED BEAR PAW, RAISED TOE 
¢ 
13 x 36 in. 
$26.00 
Neoprene filled. $26.00 
Rawhide. $28.00 
7 
For further Information write: 
Caratunk Snowshoes 
: 
Walter E. York, Mfr. 
Caratunk, Maine 04925 
cleanliness-in-the-godliness tool; outdoor japanese bathtubs. 
constructed with wooden staves, steel bottoms and a redwood lath 
 sitting-platform to protect one’s fanny. these tubs are designed to be 
_ set out in a pleasant outdoor setting (redwood grove, meadow, cliff 
overlooking the sea) and heated with a wood fire. electricity or propane 
will do. a wood fire takes about 30 minutes to heat the water 
__ steamy, and will keep the water warm for extended soaking. custom 
t 
sizes and woods available: round, redwood, oblong, cedar, Fito 
prices reasonable or barter. minimal maintenance consisting of oiling 
_ 
with linseed and tightening bands occasionally. scents are nice to use 
in the water, dr. bonner’s or eucalyptus oil. cleanse yourself. bathe 
with others. sailors on cement seas find port. 
‘ 
Contact: 
J. Hunt 
Mt. Madonna Rd. 
Gilroy, Ca. 
= 
95020 
The TTA Floating Platform 
I found this advertised in Buckley’s National Review, 
and it seems to be aimed at illegal business enterprises. But 
why not communes and schools--well endowed, naturally-- 
Can you imagine--a group living outside Amerika, free to 
_ wander all over the seas, no laws, no taxes? 
Mark Reeve 
Cincinnati, Ohio 
TTA Enterprises 
1015 Laguna Street., Ste. 10 
Santa Barbara, California 93101 
Length of 
Number of 
Total area 
Total cost 
Cost per 
side of 
stories in 
of floors 
of platform 
square foot 
platform 
building 
50 ft 
1 
2,500sg.’ 
$180,000 
$72 
100 
1 
10,000 
300,000 
30 
© 
The above are estimates of the cost of typical TTA Floating Platforms. 
A water depth of 80 feet at the point of anchorage, a height of the 
platform above the surface of the water of 25 feet, and a floor loading 
of 20 pounds per square foot are assumed. 
These costs are for a “‘bare-board” platform, including dock, access 
stairs, air cells with main and spare liners, skirt with liner, engines and 
blowers to maintain air pressure in the cells, and four anchors with 
mooring lines. Finishing and outfitting the platform will run $5 to $20 
per square foot and up, depending on the intended application. 
A floor load rating of 10 pounds is recommended for 
residential and other light-duty use. A rating of 20 pounds ts 
advised for offices, light manufacturing, and other general use. 40 
pounds should be used for heavy equipment, dense storage, and 
similar heavy-duty applications. For floor lead ratings other than 20 
pounds per square foot, approximate adjustments must be made in the 
figures given above. 
: 
Tongue-in-Groove Bricks 
Good design on an old idea: stacking blocks--concrete, with 
grooves and ridges which lock the whole thing together. No 
mortar required, since everything interlocks. Also makes the 
blocks reusable. If you move--take your house apart and 
move it with you. Blocks are sold by franchised dealers of 
_Wedge-Block, Inc. 10439 Garibaldi, St. Louis 63131 but the 
molds for do-it-yourself should be simple to make. 
Tom Cryar 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Snakes 
I'd like to'make a suggestion. I’m a snake freak (as in reptiles); they've 
been getting a bad rap ever since the Garden of Eden and I'd like to 
turn you and maybe your readers on to this hobby. An excellent 
book on snakes for the beginner is Snakes As Pets by Hobart M. Smith. 
It is an easy to read book, its only. drawback 
is that it may be too 
simple--not enough detail for those already into snakes. 
Other books: 
for classification of snakes 
What 
Snake 
Is That? by Roger Conant & William Bridges 
general reading 
books by Clifford H. Pope are fairly good: 
Snakes Alive & How They Live 
The Giant Snakes (on Pythons, Boas and Anacondas) 
The Reptile World 
Snakes and Their Ways by C.H. Curran & Carl Kauffield 
Handbook of Snakes by Albert Hazen Wright, Anna Allen Wright 
Although it is generally more advantageous to purchase snakes directly- 
from pet stores (ask around to see who sells) there are several 
reputable snake dealers: 
*Wild Cargo P.O. Box 3 Hollywood, Florida 33022 
(ask for catalog) FREE at 1st, minimal fee later 
*Philadelphia Reptile Exchange 436 Vernon Road, Jenkintown, 
Pennsylvania 19046 
*Snake Farm P.O. Box 96, Laplace, Louisiana 70068 
*Hermosa Reptile, Hermosa Beach, Calif. 90254 
*Midwest Reptile Sales, Inc. P.O. Box 6119 
Fort Wayne, Indiana 46806 
For pamphlets on any type reptile by no snake selling: 
Ross Allen Reptile Institute 
Silver Springs, Inc. 
P.O. Box 367 
Silver Springs, Florida 32688 
Payment and handling agreements are included with catalogs. 
One drawback from snakes as a hobby is that the enthusiast usually 
must be his own vet. Not many animal doctors know the ailments of 
snakes. They are fascinatingly stoney creatures, easy to care for and 
have fantastic color combinations. 
LOVE 
Jay Brethauer 
545 So. 7th St. Apt. 10 
San Jose, Calif. 
° 
P.S. If you need more info. write and if you use this forget the $10-- 
free subscription maybe but no money. 
Your good people. 
Button Button 
Lowest prices to movement organizations. Best quality we've 
seen. Fast delivery--faster if requested. Union label on all. Open 
account privileges: About 150-200 stock buttons (not run- 
of-the-mill slogans) for immediate shipment. Nice people to 
deal with. Very personal attention to all orders. 
from: 
Printed Celluloid Buttons 
Larry Fox Associates 
P.O.Box 581 
Hempstead, NY 11551 
list’ available 
Karen Penner 
Valley Stream, NY 
4 Foot Bubbles 
['d like to recommend for review a publication of the 
Franklin Institue titled “True Plastic Bubbles and How to 
Blow Them’. It’s done by the same people who caused such 
a stir about a year ago with their giant long-lasting soap 
bubbles. The resulting excitment inspired them to greater 
heights. This report tells how to blew bubbles up to 4 feet 
in diameter! The bubbles are tough, waterproof, and being 
made of plastic film, have an indefinite life span. The 
report gives brochures and sources for materials. Ask for 
“Plastic Bubbles Report” (No. 1) available from the 
Franklin Institue, 21st and the Parkway, Philadelphia, Pa.-- 
$1.00 
John Prenis 
Utica, NY 
KER-PLOW! Gottim 
Deer Friends, 
In one issue of W.E. I saw a riff about weapons, can’t recall when/ 
where but mentioned stuff re. crossbows, guns, flintlock/percussion 
muzzle loaders. Well, as it turns out if you want a weapon that’s 
powerful fun and pretty legal there’s only one way— 
toididtcidiniciik 
Black Powder (rifles & pistols) 
0 
ddoncIn 
See, these can be sent thru mail with no restrictions (check local laws 
tho) to anyone. To get a pistol you have to say you’re 21. Big deal. 
Anyway, muzzle loading longarms (flintlocks and percussion) are 
reasonably accurate, make one fuck of a big beautiful noise. Same for 
pistols. Also very cheap, like maybe 1/10 cost to shoot than cartridge 
weapons. Calibres .36 *??* 
infinity (flintlocks & shotguns). These 
guns are modeled after old timey (thymey 2) type guns like model 
36 cal Navy percussion revolver or Kentucky type squirrel guns, as 
examples 
Sources: get a gun mag. like Shooting Times or Guns & Ammo 
and look at prices, descriptions, and pictures. (fetishists take particular 
note). OR 
Centennial Arms Corp. 
3318 W. Devon Ave., Lincolnwood, Ill. 60645 
(price list $1.00!!) (“You can’t always get what you want... 4} 
OR 
Dixie Gun Works 
Dept. 1, Union City, Tenn. 38161 
catalogue $1.00-250 pages!!! Lots of good stuff 
OR 
Any other places you might see in a gun mag. 
Notes: (1) Dixie’s cat. is VERY far out. They are honest!!! 
(2) Centennial is good and cheap and has nifty pistols. Their pistols 
(Italian & Belgium) are well made for the price--like $39.95 fora 
steel frame 36 cal percussion pistol. Beware of pistols over .36 with 
brass frames, steel is stronger, 
(3) NEVER, NEVER, NEVER use smokeless powder— 
if you do YOU will be blown to shit. USE BLACK POWDERONLY. 
It is very safe-smash it with a hammer and it won't go off. Only ignites 
by spark (from flint or percussion cap) 
(4) Make sure the weapon you buy has been “proofed” (tested) so* 
that you can be sure it won’t blow up-beware of “trade” guns. 
You get what you pay for. 
(5) Clean your gun regularly. Black powder ts CORROSIVE and can 
make a mess of your weapon. These guns ain’t too hard (or too much 
fun either) to clean-find out the best way from someone who knows— 
or make up your own way. 
(6) When a flintlock goes off it’s the most far-out. There’s a snap, 
whoosh and a BOOM. Percussion ones just go BOOM*. Anyway if you 
want to stay on friendly terms with your neighbors, tell them when 
| 
you’re going hunting, target shooting, poaching so they don’t think 
you're playing Lawrence of Arabia blowing up trains. 
(* like a cherry bomb in a 50 gal. oil drum.) 
(7) For all types of guns get a copy of Guns Illustrated 1970 by the 
editors of The Gun Digest. It has everything legal in it. All types of 
guns, pistols, derringers, etc. Unfortunately it costs $2.95. If you're 
serious it’s worth it. 
(8) Join the NRA. The NRA establishment freaks want to repeal gun 
laws, They’re all perverts but join them it’s a good cause. 
(9) What the world needs now is a better Anarchy. 
Peace, 
Crazy Bill 
Allston, Massachewsit 
