After the pillow disaster we moved 
production into the DeZonia’s 
“monster bus” (camper), the Brand’s 
Airstream trailer, and the PVC dome. 
The Airstream turned out to be the core 
structure of the trip, good any time, as 
Andy said, for an enviro-fix of warmth, 
light, food, comfort. The editing 
department moved into bed. Corrections 
occured on one side of the table and lay- 
out on the other. Work speeded up. 
Proximity accelerates. 
four deadmen three feet down in the tufa. 
Fred’s faking making a half-tone, because |‘ve got the Polaroid 
film-holder in the Crowngraphic press camera. Film speed 3000 ASA; 
f 22, 1/40. Honordble mention. 
Pressure Switches 
We had no automatic controls on our blowers. 
This situation proved to be quite a pain in the 
ass, as | had to constantly tend to the pressure in 
the pillow by turning the blowers off and on. In 
the future, I'll set up a manometer (pressure 
controlled) switch on each blower. One of the 
blowers will run at .07” to .12”’ for no-wind 
running, and the other will run at .48’’ to .50” for 
high wind running. There will be a switch to 
control at which range the pillow is running and 
to have a manual control in odd situations. The 
control switches would be inside the pillow. 
Anchoring 
Prefigure the maximum stress on the pillow 
beforehand as accurately as possible. Get an 
engineer's help. Find out what you know and 
what you don’t know. 
Look at your site or get a soil sample or bring 
dynamite to dig holes and sufficient cable to tie 
to. (Preferably the first) We buried 4’ long green 
logs about 4’ deep which worked out quite well, 
they didn’t budge. Our problem was with the 
connection to these. The cable clamps slipped. in 
a 40 MPH wind, throwing the typist and the 
typewriter onto the floor. 
Be aware of hovy much stretch there is in the 
anchoring materials you are using. If you aren't 
you will find yourself with excess slack and 
nowhere to take it up. If you are aware of how 
many Ibs. pull stretches the rope how much, you 
can calculate by marking the rope beforehand 
(rather accurately) and then measuring the rope. 
Rope, cable, and strapping manufacturers (and 
some suppliers) will have this data. In rope, if 
one of the three strands sticks out more than 
the other two, replace it immediately. 
Heating, Cooling & Sunglare 
A reflective surface (or at LEAST white) would 
be best. A separate inflatable for cooling (on top 
of the pillow) doesn’t work well as it flaps and 
tears in the wind when it isn’t inflated. Since it is 
desirable though to be able to have an air space 
between the ceiling and the roof though, | think 
the next cooling scheme will be a silvered mylar 
(polyester) bladder inside the pillow (for wind 
protection) whose position can be controlled 
inside the pillow..... 
Joe, Hal, 
Stewart, Fred, Lois, Barbara, Bud, 
Andy. We started production puritanically 
taking one bath a day or less. By the end of 
production any excuse would do. 
Production site, after. We took only photographs, we left only footprints, and 
Bud DeZonia 
