t 
} 
£ 
How to Prevent Jail 
I have a possible contribution for the Whole Earth Catalog which 
might be useful to a lot of people out there (I say “out there” 
because I’m locked up). The item is telephone scramblers, so that 
persons listening in on a phone conversation hear nothing but 
wierd noises; if I'd had one I might not be in my present situation. 
I don’t have a lot of info on commercially manufactured units— 
just a few addresses of manufacturerers. I believe that the Delcon 
Corp. in Palo Alto (a division of Hewlett-Packard) makes a unit 
that sells for something like $200 or so per pair. Two “‘major”’ 
manufacturers of the things, according to the editor of Popular 
Electronics magazine, are Zaring Industries, Inc., 906 W. Main St., 
Carmel, Indiana 46032, and Singer , 2400 Wilson Blud., 
Arlington, Va. 22201. You might be able to get some brochures 
from them. 
; 
My main thing, though, is an article that appeared in the March 1970 
issue of Popular Electronics that gives detailed construction plans 
for a simple but effective phone scrambler. I dug up an old circuit 
while I was in San Quentin and sent it to Pop. Elect. and they 
revised the circuit and did the article. A pair can be constructed 
relatively cheaply, and with a little parts substitution and juggling 
they can be made quite portable for use in phone booths, motels, etc. 
I believe you have some people on the staff of the Catalog who are 
down with electronics, so they should realize that anyone with the 
right equipment can easily unscramble a signal if a plain audio 
tone is used as the carrier, Use of an audio signal from a music- 
playing radio station, as suggested in the article, is much better and 
makes the signal virtually impossible to unscramble—but the 
distance between units is reduced to the range of the radio station 
used. It’s better than nothing, though. Somebody could probably 
make some bread by making and selling such units, or kits-and 
they'd be doing a good service for a lot of people. I’d thought 
about doing it when I got out, but I’ve no idea when that will be 
(I’ve got in over 3 years already for a Ist offense pot sales). So if 
you think it’s a useful item, see what you can do about it. 
Peace Trees, 
Howard N. Ingram, Jr. 
Susanville, California 
Cut Wood Quick 
A down-home idea: if you heat with wood and hence have 
to cut up logs to size, you usually have 2 people at it, one 
holding and feeding the log along a sawhorse while the other 
cuts with the chainsaw. Instead try sinking say 12 posts in 
the ground like this: 
| 
i 
a —— oe | } 
ee =iee (\s 
= 
— 
a=] 
y 
a4 oo 
¥ =h 
and throw the logs to be cut in between. Then just cut down 
in one stroke and they’re all done. Saves hours of nasty, 
noisy work! 
Elias Velonis 
Glen Rock, N.J. 
Cheap Firewood 
Most lumber mills will sell slab leftovers--great stove size--in truck 
loads for about $20. We get maple, birch and oak. We feel it is 
_ 
better! to buy from them to supplement 
the standing dead wood we 
cut than to cut live trees. Also, Forestry Dept. will ‘‘sell’’ (free) lots 
to anyone who wants to clean up, either after there has been 
commercial lumbering or in anovercrowded or diseased area. 
It is quite cold in Goshen (where we live) and we get a lot of snow. 
We insulate the house with polyurethane and pile snow up along 
the sides. !t acts as insulation, We heat with three fire places and a 
cook stove. 
In this area, the old timers are very friendly and full of great in- 
formation. One woman knows the woods intimately and can find 
wild leeks, 12 kinds of mushrooms, herbs, berries, and vegetables. 
Many have tales to tell and medicinal ‘‘secrets’’ to impart to the 
interested. 
We have a friend with female goats and the deer bucks are very 
_ interested. We hear they will mate and are interested to find if that 
is true. Anyone know what the product would be called? Geer Doat! 
Peace, 
Steve and Boston Gallo 
Geoffrey Byron 
Erik Celeborn 
: 
Dawn Galadriel 
our babies 
Brandon, Vt. 
ey 
Weatherman Backhoe 
an 
We are a family of 7, not hippies or revolutionists or communitarians, 
just a middle-aged couple with kids who got sick of suburbia, 
urburbia and the world in general. We moved to a lonely mountain- 
side last April, and we've been happy ever since. We are living in a 6 
room and pantry log cabin that we built (more on that later), and 
we've acquired a cow and calf, 40 chickens and a small dog. It’s a 
good life, if somewhat isolated--| don’t know who won the World 
Series, | don’t know who won the Asian War, and | just found out 2 
days ago who Manson is! Ignorance 
can be bliss... The road is 
impassible except to 4 Wheel Drive November to May. 
Looking over your catalog, there are several omissions. First, 
dynamite and explosives. There is an excellent handbook called 
“Explosives in Agriculture’ published by “Institute of Makers of 
Explosives’’, New York, N.Y. You can get this free from your county 
agent, (who, by the way, is sitting there in his office, doodling away 
the hours, waiting for someone to wander in so he can give away 
some of his thousands of free pamphlets). Contents include nature 
of explosives, handling and storage, stumpblowing, ditching, boulder- 
busting, subsoiling, potholing, excavating-cellars, foundations, 
trenches, waterholes, postholes, et cetera. It's very clearly written 
very explicit and diagrams are easy to read. | ts ideal for someone with 
no experience at all (such as myself). Costs using dynamite are very 
cheap. We excavated a root cellar in rock for less than 2/3 cents per 
cubic foot. Cost goes down as you gain experience. If you are working 
with earth, you need dynamite. 
The powder companies themselves, Atlas, Dupont, Hercules, etc. 
will provide all sorts of helpful data as well as lists of local suppliers. 
Check out Dupont’s primercord for tree-falling, for instance. 
Second---Chain saws. Christ man, you've got to talk about chain saws! 
Here’s my 2 cents worth. Don’t buy any saw you can’t get serviced 
within one hour. That excludes everything except McCullough 
and Homelite, and Homelite is better. If you are using your saw 
heavily, you'll be in the shop frequently and the shop better be 
close! 
Third--The blurb on the book “The Wilderness Cabin’’ states log 
cabins use up more wood. That is a lot of superficial crap, I’m 
surprised none of you caught it! With an ounce of iniatiative, you can 
build a log coliseum that consumes less wood than a frame-type 
outhouse. Observe--each Spring bulldozers clank about north America 
knocking down trees clearing land. These trees are then piled in long 
windows., and. come Winter, they are BURNED !! From my front 
porch, right now, | can see the smoke from 17 different cleared areas, 
totally (1 cruised them all) about 1200-1500 cords of firewood or 
enough logs averaging 8” diameter to build a 10 story building; 40 X 
40 feet, with log joists for each floor. Now if you just stop and ask, 
you can have all the logs you want out of these piles. In addition, 
you can also cut up a couple of hundred cords of firewood to support 
yourself over the winter. Remember, this is all ‘garbage’, due to be 
burned off so the farmers can raise more surplus wheat. 
If you want to run more data on the free logs, let me know and |'II 
write you a step by step how-to-do-it. At any rate, they are free and 
you are doing the world a service by building with them instead of 
lumber, et cetera. Besides, it’s easier, especially for the inexperienced 
to build with logs than with any other material. 
What else? Oh, | need some engineering help. | want to make some 
sort of a rainwater collector and holding tank on the hillside behind 
our house. Its a steep 40-50% slope, covered with stumps and scrub 
and short native grasses. | can excavate (with a weatherman backhoe) 
a hole say 10X10X7’ deep in the rock, which is too badly fractured 
to hold water. How do | line the hole? How big a collector do | need? 
And how do | calculate water pressure and flow rates? We get 27” 
of precipitation annually, probably half as snow. Little or no rain 
from mid-June to October. Consumption is now 30 gallons/day, 
would be up to 50 by next summer. 
If | have to, I'll pay for the engineering consultation by swapping 
same on log construction, or the like. | know money would be better 
but | have none. Please help. 
By the way, all books on building with logs (including Rustrum & 
Angier), read nicely but execute poorly. Is there a need for a 
concise step by step booklet on building a cabin or barn with logs? 
What | have in mind would be a specific type booklet, eliminating 
most of the options and taking advantage of cheapest and funkiest 
material sources, as well as allowing for total inexperience of the 
builder. There are lots of ways to build a log cabin, but if you are 
green, it's far better to have one simple, authorative set of 
instructions. 
One more item--We have several Eagle American Antique Kerosene 
Lamps, model 700 with reflector, from Thermwell Products Co., Inc., 
Patterson, N.J. 07524. They cost $3.99 retail, are very bright, easy to 
keep operating and don’t give much trouble. We find them far 
superior to anything else we've tried, also much cheaper. 
Keep up the good work. 
Peace 
Bob Weiszmann 
Box 116 
Tensed, 
Idaho 83870 
Redwood Global 
..A cousin of the West Coast Redwoods, the Meta Sequoia, 
sometimes called Chinese Sequoia or Dawn Redwood, seems 
to do well on the East Coast. A friend of mine planted one 
in Long Island twenty or so years ago and it seems to have 
done beautifully, and it has done beautifully very recently 
in the Boston Public Garden where the Parks Dept. decided to 
plant several. Has anybody done any experimenting to find 
if the West Coast variety will grow in parts of the East. 
Maybe our climates are too extreme, but it seems worth a 
’ try. I’ve also heard that some of them have been planted 
and are doing well on the West Coast in England. | would 
love more information about this... 
...F lying over the country,! wish that someone would make a - 
globe for school or home in which all parts of the earth weré 
painted in the colors that we see if we were looking at that 
part of the earth from outerspace wihtout any intervening 
clouds. We might have two such globes, one for January and 
the other for July. The differences in colors because of snow, 
greenery, etc. might be interesting. There would be no 
political boundaries marked on these globes. Anyone else 
like this idea at all? 
JOHN HOLT 
BOSTON, MASS. 
Examining very old issues of Popular Science (can be found 
in libraries) ...For example: while looking through its 1939 
issues of Popular Science in the school library, I found data on 
building and testing wind powered electrical plants; how to 
make pipes; and how to make a house boat out of a discarded 
20,000 gal. tank. A lot of the projects then would be really 
considered freaky now but relevant. 
John Corbett 
Essex Junction, Vt. 
Cheap Leather 
A friend of ours wanted leather but couldn't afford the $25 or so 
for the hide and ended up buying a fresh hide from a local slaughter 
house for $3 or so and tanned it himself. We personally don’t 
feel inclined towards doing such a thing but he came out monetarily 
and is richer for knowing how to do it. 
Dennis and Becky Crowe 
Warrenten, Oregon 
Retread Your Feet 
Tried and true hiking boots are a pleasure to have, and a 
sadness to lose. Shoe repairmen are not only expensive but 
their repairs often don’t last very long. Here are two ways in 
which I’ve prolonged the life of my boots; they may be 
useful to some of you. 
1) Soles from auto or truck tires 
The soles on my boots were smooth and still firmly 
attached--just thin. If you have lug soles (vibrams, ete.) 
youll have to modify this technique. If the old soles are 
coming off, you ll either have to take them off entirely or 
glue them down securely. 
First, get a discarded tire. There are lots of them along back 
roads. I used a near-new tire (blown out) with a heavy duty 
tread. Cut out a section slightly longer than your boot and 
then cut off the side walls. Long-handled pruning shears 
work fine for cutting tires. Next, pry the heel off your boot 
and thoroughly work over the bottom of the boot and the 
inside of the tire with a stiff wire brush (the first key to 
success). Coat the two surfaces with a thermosetting resin 
(like epoxy) and clamp together securely (the second key 
to success). 
Here’s how I clamped mine-- 
tie ends oe 
boands 
to ior 
with cond 
stick under 
msle 2 
Let it dry for about 24 hours, and then trim the tire to the 
shape of the boot. I wasn’t too fussy about looks; if you 
don’t like the sole sticking out here and there, you'll need 
to finish the job with a wire grinding wheel. I left the heel 
off and have found that it didn’t make a bit of difference 
in how they “walk”. 
2) Repairing uppers with fibreglass tape and polyester resin 
One of my boots was worn through at the-toe, I filled the 
hole with fibreglass tape shredded and saturated with resin, 
then put a patch cut from the tape over the top and smeared 
this liberally with resin. Push the whole thing down until 
there are no trapped air bubbles. It dried hard and durable. 
If you don’t yet have a hole, all you need do is apply a 
patch and soak it in resin. 
I'd put on about 1,000 miles on these boots before I 
repaired them, and have since added another 500. If the tire 
manufacturer’s claims are true, the soles ought to be good 
for another 19,500 or so, And F leave the most unique foot- 
prints around. 
17 
Roger Hope 
Ruby Valley, Nevada 
