A part of our activities of special interest to some of your readers 
_ and one which 
is not emphasized in the form letter is that of 
_ organic farming on a large scale. Many of the backyard garden pro- 
cedures promoted in gardening books you recommend are impossible 
on a commercial scale. We've learned the hard way, for example, 
that heavy mulching of large acerage is economically ridiculous and 
destructive ecologically except in special cases where large quantities 
of appropriate organic industrial waste is available. In all other cases 
to mulch one acre of ground to the usually recommended depth 
_ requires ripping off on the average five other acres of land for the 
organic material (usually grass) it produces each year. 
Another aspect of much less interest to most of your readers, but not 
those we wish to reach, is that we are committed to producing a 
significant agricultural surplus (i.e. profit). 
A commune run on any 
other basis may be temporarily rewarding on a personal level but is of 
little significance as a social alternative... 
W. Ransom for Rockbottom 
ROCKBOTTOM FARM FORM LETTER LATE FALL 1970 
Rockbottom needs people who know how to work, who can decide 
(verbally or nonverbally) what they want out of life, and then 
physically and mentally work for it steadily, even through 
exhaustion and depression, for however long it takes, and enjoy 
themselves along the way, especially if they have skills and 
experience. 
If you’re too young,-or 
for some other reason don’t know whether 
you're this kind of person or not, but hope you are, or think you 
could learn to be, we are willing to help find out-~it usually doesn’t 
take long. 
Rockbottom is 
first of all a farm and depends on farming 
for its 
survival amd prosperity, and that means responsible work, on a 
regular schedule, in an organized way, 50 hours a week minimum-- 
for the rest of your life... 
e 
Here are some of the types of work that we do: Feeding and caring for 
animals, shoveling their shit, milking, slaughtering and butchering. 
_ Producing organic vegetables for ourselves and for market which 
includes: planning, plowing, harrowing, and spreading shit with the 
horses we shoveled and spread 200 tons last year; cultivating with 
the horses, many hours of weeding and picking, and finally canning, 
freezing and marke ting. 
Producing maple syrup which includes tapping trees and hanging 
buckets, gathering sap and transporting it with horses to storage 
tanks, boiling down the sap—often a 24 hour a day job, packaging 
and selling the syrup, washing buckets, and setting up for the next 
year. 
Construction: we will be building continuously for the foreseeable 
future. So far we have built a 50X70 foot barn, sugar house, 2 ponds, 
many roads and a large half finished addition to our house. 
- Felling and bucking fire wood with chain saws for the house and the 
maple syrup operation is also a major part of our work and we hope 
to cut a surplus for sale next fall. 
About a forth of our labor is spent cooking, cleaning, washing dishes, 
caring for children,, and doing other household chores. Out of ' 
necessity this work is done mostly by the women, since we cannot 
spare men from the heavier work. This does not mean that women work 
exclusively in the house, however, they do a great deal of work out- 
side as well. 
Some of the other things we do are building fences and roads, 
clearing land, tanning hides, taking care of the green house, 
maintanance on 2 trucks, one van, the bulldozer, and a great deal 
of horse drawn farm equipment. Some time is also spent on planning 
the work, buildings, and fields, keeping accounts, answering letters, 
and finding markets... 
Here are the answers to questions people ususally ask: As of the 
writing date we are 7 adults, 4 men, 3 women, and 3 children; age of 
- adults ranges from 19-32. Four adults have been here.a year, three 
for half a 
year. We've had a total of over 90 people here for periods 
ranging from a few days to several months. All but two or three of 
these people who have left have done so with good feelings and 
wishes for the place. A few had specific gripes, but most said they 
were leaving because the challenge we have taken on and hence the 
commitment and energy required were too great for not being exactly 
what they wanted. Anyway, there are now seven adults who have been 
here awhile. Besides that, two or three of us have had extensive 
experience in other (mostly since failed) communes before this one. 
There are 350 acres of land. The two main cash crops are organic 
vegetables and maple syrup. The production end of both is doing 
fine. We've had some trouble with the marketing, but our produce 
is top quality, and just recently the vegetable market has apparently 
begun to open up; we have been offered tentatively a contract 
for 
next year for probably all we can raise. 
There are five work horses that do all the farm work except clearing 
land and building roads and ponds, for which we have a bulldozer. 
We also have three milk cows, many calves and pigs, three sheep, and 
poultry. We are now producing all our own eggs, milk, butter, cheese, 
and meat. 
Work is distributed first according to the needs of the farm; the 
best qualified available people to do the job. Naturally, desire is 
taken into account. On the few jobs that nobody will willingly do the 
available people take turns. We have definite areas of responsibility 
with specific people in charge.- 
Since we are not a society we don’t have a “‘government”. We make 
decisions big and decide on policy by talking it over and coming to an 
agreement. In case of a crisis or the infrequent failure of the group to 
decide and act, we have a “board of directors” (two people at 
present) who are empowered to do so.We are very little interested in 
external or internal politics (power and ego struggles). We’ve seen too 
many groups tear themselves apart or paralize themselves in nominally 
“democratic” meetings simply because they had been taught that this 
was the “right way”’ or possibly even the only way to manage things. 
We talk, think, and decide. We don’t vote. 
The title to the land and assets is held by one person. This is a 
poor arrangement, because it offers little security in case of his death 
or mental collapse. Steps are being taken toward setting up a legal 
structure to handle this-but this will not change the internal “govern- 
ment” of the group. 
“Social guidelines” and rules are not rigid and are hard to convey in 
a reasonable number of words. The main thing is that everyone does 
his share in co-operation with others and tries not to seriously annoy 
anybody else if 
it’s not required to get the work done. All minor rules 
(and there are a few) grow out of this. 
Financial arrangements: one member has put wp nearly all the money 
so far (about $140,000), and it will be paid back (either) to him 
or to a foundation to establish other productive communes) at no 
interest and over a very long period of time, still undetermined. On 
the individual level nobody has any personal property on the farm, or 
Spends any money while a 
member. Whatever assets people have 
outside the farm they are encouraged to hold onto in case they 
leave. We do not want or tolerate any one here simply because tt 
would be difficult for them to leave. 
We all live in one house. We try to furnish a seperate room to every 
adult who wants one. We don't-quite make it sometimes. If you were 
to arrive now, you would have a room. All children over about a year 
sleep in the same room. Almost anything you say or do in your 
room can and ususally is heard by others. There’s very little 
privacy (but some). This has ceased almost completely to be a problem 
. to any of us. Even if your room were sound proof, you couldn't hide 
very much very long here, anyway. We take a bath a week in winter, 
no inside toilet, Level of health is pretty good, dict is excellent. We 
all eat together. 
No pets of any kind-~NO EXCEPTIONS. This is one of the hardest 
lessons weve had to learn, so we've learned it (we hope) forever. 
There is no set upper limit to the number of members. We've had 
as many as 20 at one time and it seemed to work all right. When 
our population is bigger and the farm work is under control we will 
be open to other kinds of work such as crafts and ecologically 
acceptable industry. But because we occupy a large piece of land, 
and because people are hungry, and because we want tt to be, 
the farm is basic, and its requirements will always come first. 
For practical purposes children are considered to be communal. 
Within reason children are expected to help like everyone else. All 
adults have responsiblity for all children. Spoiled children who come 
here always get rapidly unspoiled. Any child who intentionally 
does something he shouldn’t can and usually does get spanked by an 
adult. Without exception every child who has been here has loved 
it-often after a day or two of testing us and finding out we don’t 
game. 
Some day we will have our own school. Until then our kids go to the 
local public school. Our relations with our neighbors are excellent. 
Rural Vermonters are a pretty fantastic variety of people. We are 
liked and respected, even though most of the superficial aspects 
of our life style are quite different from theirs. We are sometimes 
referred to (not in our presence) as “Bottomsup’’—probably because 
in warm weather we’re not much concerned about clothes and 
because it’s known that some of us like to drink a quantity of our 
homebrew on Saturday night. 
If all this is appealing or acceptable to you, you could visit us 
immediately with a view to joining us. You must tell us when you're 
coming, and if you are here during work time, you must work. 
Sundays, and other days after 4:30 are off (supposedly). If you wish 
to come fora 
short visit Sunday would definitely be the best day. 
Strafford is 20 miles northwest of White River Junction, Vermont, 
and anyone in town can direct you to the farm, or call us at 
765-6553, The country is steep, mostly wooded and rocky, quite 
beautiful and rather wild. The weather is changeable and in season 
SEVETEs. 
We offer pure, State of Vermont Grade A maple syrup for sale, made 
completely by us for $3.00 a quart or $10.00 a galton, plus postage. 
(The cost by zip code is: 010-250=§ 1.00; 250-800=$ 1.50; 800 on= 
$1.80 These numbers refer to the first three digits of your zip code. 
Forth class parcel post will take up to 2 weeks for delivery. Add 
$.35 for special handling. 
Order from: ROCKBOTIOM FARM, STRAFFORD, VERMONT 
05072. 
Cheap Buckskin 
This is the Jowest-cost deerskin short of gunning your own 
that we've seen. 
~ 
The Original Vermont Country Store 
Weston, Vermont 05161 
GENUINE 
DEERSKIN 
PELT 
Has Dozens 
of New Uses 
The people who make our fine deer- 
skin gloves let us have some genuine 
soft, tanned deerskin pelts; we’ve sold 
so many in the store we know our 
customers will want to order them by 
mail. 
So many uses:— like soft ab- 
sorbent chamois for washing cars, for 
washing and drying windows, polishing, 
drying, dusting and the like in the 
house. Young ladies are (believe it or 
not) making skirts and jackets of them. 
Men are buying them to make shirts; 
children to play with. They are soft as 
butter. Can be dyed any color. No two 
alike. They’ll vary widely; some will be 
from 30 to 36” long and 18” in the 
center in irregular shapes. Some have 
small holes. But when you realize the 
absurdly low price, you’ll see what a 
buy this is. No. 
11629 $3.00 each. 
Weight 
1 lb. 
Special FOUR 
for 
$10.00. Weight 2 Ibs. 
e 
: 
od 
ibs COMMUNITY 
Gress: 
What to Do After the Town Blows Up 
Remember the bank burning in Santa Barbara; Isla Vista and 
all that? A Citizen’s Commission in the town took the view 
that it happened for reasons, and that those reasons could be 
examined reasonably and dealt with reasonably without 
calling (or considering) anybody Villain. They made a 
remarkable report. 
Mrs. Pedotti, Co-chairman of the Commission (also Steve 
Baer’s mother-in-law), wrote to us: “The Commission 
report is sort of a ‘do it yourself’ recipe for rehabilitation 
of acommunity after violent upheaval. The need may be 
quite widespread!” 
Report of the Santa Barbara Citizens Commission on Civil 
Disorders 
September 1970; 41 pp. 
$1.00 postpaid 
from: 
~ 
Commission on Civil Disorders 
914 Santa Barbara St. 
Santa Barbara, Ca. 93101 
Hammox 
South American type hammocks. These are really hard to obtain in 
the U.S., it seems. But for millions of people in Latin America, this 
type of hammock ts the only bed at hand and ts perfectly fuctional. 
They are really comfortable, washable, and portable--needing only 2 
short ropes to be anchored to posts or to hooks at opposite walls of 
aroom, Unlike conventional lawn hammocks, they have no rods or 
dowels. Instead, the owner positions himself 
at a slight diagonal to 
the longitudinal axis and thus lies perfectly straight (flat) across, not 
sagging in the middle as with conventional type hammocks. 
Recommended by returning Peace Corps volunteers. 
They come in two sizes, a single for one person (best) and the doble 
for two (or more). Prices start at $6 in South America, but I believe 
they are selling for $11 ata store called the Phoenix, Wisconsin Ave. 
NW, Washington, D.C. You might check this out, as it would really 
bea most useful addition to offer them here at fair prices (much 
better than old, broken down, infested mattresses on the floor—for 
people in tight situations). Swung low, they are very good for babies. 
With a medium weight cotton blanket for a covering (called covija in 
Clombia), the owner will stay warm in‘temperatures down to 50 
degrees. Beyond that I haven't had the opportunity to experiment. 
Tf you already know about these, please tell us where we might be 
able to obtain some. They could most easily be imported from 
Baranquilla, Columbia, where there are several factories. 
Michael Lambert 
Advanced Society Projects 
Boston, Mass. 
Hydroponics for Communities 
“The Magic Garden is the name of a hydroponic process for the 
quick, year-round produciton of produce as developed by 
Hyrdoculture, Inc. of Phoenix, an international leader in the field 
of soil-less food production. 
“Malcolm Lentz, president of Hydroculture, inc., recently returned 
from a visit to oil-rich, sotl-poor Kuwait, after 
an invitation from its 
government, declared Hydroculture to be ideally suited to the 
conditions encountered. The United Nations is providing funds jor a 
pilot operation in Lebanon, to be built and staffed by Hydroculture 
personnel. Lentz expresses confidence that this will be the forerunner 
of a major development in the Arab lands... 
“The Magic Garden greenhouse was invented by Lem Jones, a former 
Texan, who joined Hydroculture, Inc. in January of 1969 and is 
manager of the Greenhouse Division The Magic Garden provides 
controlled climatic conditions necessary for year-round hydrponic 
farming. The steel-frame structure is covered with a super clearlite 
filon, a fibreglass reinforced plastic, allowing maximum transmission 
of light. 
“The real ‘magic’ begins inside, where plants are raised by almost 
total automation. Temperature, humidity and air circulation are 
controlled. Electronic sensing devices provide the right plant food 
combinations at the right intervals for the production of gourmet- 
quality vegetables on a year-round basis.. 
“The Magic Garden hydroponic vegetable crops grow faster than 
field crops because of the nearly perfect environment, and they are 
protected from all soil diseases, weeds, drought, frost, hail, wind and 
insects. 
No raw organic fertilizers are used. 
“The tomatoes are vine ripened and of superior flavor, appearance 
and holding quality. No DDT or other sprays leaving a harmful residue 
are utilized. The product beings a premium price in the market. 
Until | read this item a few weeks ago | had no idea that automated 
hydroponics was currently technically feasible or commercially 
viable. 
But this company seems to have solved the basic problems 
(their research director used to run Boeing's spacecraft hydroponics 
program) and can get up anyone who wants to operate one of their 
units with a plant and training to run it. While the cost is currently 
beyond the reach of most communal groups, Hydroculutre has plans 
for developing family-sized Units for a price of about $500, for the 
‘next generation’’. Their current yield runs about 7.5 pounds of 
vegetables per square foot per year. 
T omatoes, for instance., 
develop from seedlings to maturity in 60 days, vine-ripened. They also 
have a program whereby absentee owners can purchase a greenhouse 
and Hydroculture will operate it and market the produce. 
Perhaps a consortium of communal groups could take advantage of 
this program to realize economics of scale in producing food for 
themselves and/or export. But lacking data on the cost of such a 
venture and of the willingness of this compnay to deal with sub- 
culture types, this is but an innocent surmise. At any rate, 
Hydroculture may prove to be useful information resource 
for hothouse experimenters. Perhaps non-investors could get into 
their training course... 
Victory through Vegetables 
Geoffrey Dutton 
Cambridge, Mass. 
