THE GREAT AMERICAN HIGHWAY 
Remove all advertisements, let there be no compulsory commercial vision. At least, with TV, you can 
turn it off. Signs of location can become more individual, each town’s sign signifying characteristics 
other than that contained solely in the word. 
Color code highways giving each city a color and rendering into each change: 
Fess LaBea Re Al Tote wi te YO OY ing area 
Extensive planting of trees and shrubs at each Rest Stop so that travelers must leave their machines by the road 
and walk down Zen paths with rock gardens, streams where possible, natural shade and variety. 
. The more plants 
H 
the more oxygen, which our weary traveler needs. 
At the path’s 
end an organically structured rest room, sand 
pits and swings, benches and tables with the most awesome scenery available and not a sight of road or flashing 
i] 
light. 
| 
Campgrounds would be similarly structured but, in addition, separate camping spots are created individually 
i] 
with the various ecological conditions stressed: instead of rows of sameness we'd have a spot deep in the 
shade of trees, one out in open sun, one with epic view, some log lean-tos and some space stations, each with 
, | 
ee and naturally bound sanctity. 
The camper must find his camp which requires exploring and knowing 
’ 
imself. 
ae 
ce 
Nes 
Jw 
ions are to broadcast hours-long sequences of tape recordings 
surf effects, woods noises,etc. Similarly, recordings might be 
e centers of large cities and remote locations. Each station 
ssigned a different category, enabling the listener to select 
erent natural or exotic sounds. These could be live 
a 
f 
fleets (such as the Liberty ships anchored on the 
xX 
{ 
o be given to artists’ communities. Conversion and 
1g to be done by the artists themselves. 
: 
\ 
REST SVOr 
‘ 
Deposits of waste materials from mining and manufacturing would be 
sculpted by bulldozers into spiral-ascending ramps on cones, into pure cones, 
and other forms, Especially adaptable would be the slag heaps deposited 
| 
near coal mines. 
Excavations are to be made in a large field, permitting the installation of a 
large number of trampolines at ground level, each being braced and filled up to 
its edge. As many trampolines as possible. Ideally, the whole field to be 
replaced. 
Flying over an area where observers may stand, a flight of skywriting planes, twelve or more in number, will fly across, trailing yellow 
t 
smoke in straight lines, flying 100 yards from and parallel to each other. Seconds later an equal number of planes trailing red smoke 
This proposed painting to be spray-painted on panels. 
will fly over the same point, one hundred yards above them. Crossing overhead, they will create a red-and-yellow grid, covering 
(2 feet by !4 feet. 
(maybe) 4 square miles of sky. 
17 
i 
Hh 
i 
