birds have all but been extincted in pursuit of furs or feathers 
or fertilizer or oil: the soil is ‘‘used up” and all of this to 
feed outrageous excesses like war, or a phoney consumption- 
oriented economy. 
goal: Balance, harmony, humility, the true affluence of being 
a good member of the community of living creatures. 
Action_ 
social/political: Seek out new self-renewable energy sources. 
And: it must be taught ceaselessly til it sticks that a contin- 
ually “growing economy” is no longer healthy, but a Cancer. 
Re-structure business corporations so that they can function 
without presenting a continually growing profit; stress 
responsible, controlled production. Soil banks, open space, 
phase out logging on federal land. Protection for all predators 
and varmints, Absolutely no further development of roads 
and concessions in National Parks and Wilderness areas; build 
auto campgrounds in the least desirable areas. Develop 
consumer-boycott and consumer research power in the areas 
of irresponsible and dishonest products. Thus: expose the 
myths of capitalism and the cold war. & Communist myths 
of growth 
aftd production by the by. 
iW! 
the community: Sharing and conserving; boycotting the 
wasteful. The inherent aptness of communal life, where 
large tools are owned jointly, and personal objects are 
private. If enough people refused to buy a new car for 
one year, it would permanently alter the American economy. 
Re-cycling clothes and equipment. (Goodwill and Salvation 
Army are useful: they should perhaps be confronted and 
straightened out on their pricing and wage policies.) Support 
local handicrafts in shoes and clothes, Learn to break the 
habit of too many unnecessary possessions———a monkey on 
every body’s back——but avoid a self-abnegating anti-joyous 
self righteousness. Simplicity is light, carefree, neat, and 
loving——not a self-punishing ascetic trip. (The greatest 
Chinese poet, Tu Fu, said “The ideas of a poet should be 
noble and simple.’’) 
Don’t shoot a deer if you don’t know how to use all the meat 
and preserve that which you can’t eat; to tan the hide and use 
the leather.—— to use it all, with gratitude, right down to 
the sinew and hooves. Simplicity and mindfulness in diet 
is perhaps the starting point for most people. 
our own heads: It is hard to even begin to gauge how much 
a complication of possessions, the habits of“‘ownership” 
and “‘use”’ stand between us and a true, clear, liberated way 
of seeing the world. To live lightly on the earth,to be aware 
and alive, to be free of egotism, starts with concrete acts, 
but the inner principle is the insight that we are inter- 
dependant energy fields of great potential wisdom and com- 
passion——expressed in each person as a superb mind, a 
beautiful and complex body, and the almost magical capacity 
of language. To these potentials and capacities, “owni 
things” can add nothing of authenticity. “Clad in the sky, 
with the earth for a pillow.” 
IV. TRANSFORMATION 
_The 
Condition _ 
position: The unbalance in man’s relation to nature & his 
selves is partly an inherent existential question with biolog- 
ical. and ultimate roots——birth, suffering, old age and 
death; and partly a cultural problem. In approaching quest- 
ions of Being and Emptiness we have the wisdom traditions 
and some emerging sciences to help us. In transforming 
culture, we must augment the philosophical perceptions 
with a deep study of history and anthropology. 
_ situation: Our civilized——and probably most other—— 
societies of the last three millenia have functioned well 
enough up to this point. But they no longer have survival 
value. They are now anti-survival. 
oal: Nothing short of total transformation will work. 
hat we envision is a planet on which the human population 
lives harmoniously and dynamically by employing a sophis- 
ticated and unobtrusive technology in a world environment 
which is “left natural.” Specific points in this vision: 
@ A healthy and spacious population of all races, 
much less in number than today. 
@ Cultural and individual pluralism, unified by a 
type of world tribal council. Division by 
natural and cultural areas rather than arbi- 
trary political boundaries 
@ A Technology of communication and quiet 
transportation: land use being sensitive to the 
properties of each region. Allowing, thus, the 
bison to return to much of the high plains. 
Careful but intensive agriculture in the great 
alluvial valleys. Computer technicians who 
run the plant part of the year and walk along 
with the Elk in their migration during the rest—— 
@ A basic cultural outlook and social organization 
that inhibits power and property-seeking while 
encouraging exploration and challenge in things 
like healing songs, flute-playing, meditation, 
mathematics, mountaineering, and all the other 
possible ways of authentic being-in-the-world. 
Women totally free and equal. A new kind of 
family——responsible, but more festive and 
relaxed——is implicit. 
+ 13. VIL 40069 
Action 
social/political: 
It seems evident that there are throughout 
the world certain social and religious forces that have worked 
throughout history toward an ecologically/culturally enlight- 
ened state of affairs. Let these be encouraged: Alchemists, 
hip Marxists, Anarchists, Third Worlds, Teilhard and crypto- 
Gnostic Catholics, Druids, Witches, Taoists, Biologists, Y ogins, 
Quakers, Tibetans, Zens, Shamans, Sufis, Amish and Mennon- 
ite, American Indians, Polynesians——all primitive cultures, 
all communal and ashram movements of all persuasions, &c. 
The list is long. Since it doesn’t seem practical or even 
desirable to think that direct bloody force will achieve any- 
thing, it would be best to consider this a continuing“revolu- 
tion of consciousness” which will be won not by guns 
but by seizing the key images, myths, archetypes, eschatol- 
ogies, and ecstasies so that life won’t seem worth living 
unless one’s on the transforming energy’s side. 
our community: Without falling into a facile McLuhanism, 
we can hope to use the 
media. New schools, new classes, 
——walking in the woods and cleaning up the streets. Let 
no one be ignorant of the facts of biology and related 
disciplines; bringup our children with natural things and a 
taste of the wild. Let some groups establish themselves in 
backwater rural areas and flourish, let others maintain them- 
selves in the urban centers, and let them work together, a two- 
way flow of experience, people, money and home-grown veg- 
etables. Investigating new lifestyles is our work——as is the 
exploration of Ways to change one’s innerworld ——with the 
known dangers of crashing that go with such. We should work 
where it helps with political people, hoping to enlarge their 
vision, And with people of all varieties of politics or ide- 
ologies at whatever point they become aware of environmental 
urgencies. Master the archaic and the primitive, as models of 
basic nature-related cultural styles, as well as the most 
imaginative future possibilities of science and technology, and 
build a community where these two vectors cross, 
our own heads: Is where it starts. Knowing that we are the 
first human beings in history to have all of man’s culture 
and previous experience available to our study, and being 
free enough of the weight 
of traditional cultures to seek out 
a larger identity. 
——The 
first members of a civilized 
society since the early Neolithic to wish to look clearly into 
the eyes of the wild and see our selfhood, our family, there. 
We have these advantages to set off the obvious disadvantages 
of being as screwed up as we are——which gives us a fair 
chance to penetrate into some of the riddles of ourselves 
& the universe, and to go beyond the idea of “man’s survival” 
or’‘the survival of the biosphere” and to draw our strength 
from the realization that at the heart of things is some kind 
of serene and ecstatic process which is actually beyond qual- 
ities and beyond birth-and-death. “No need to survive!” 
“In the fires that, destroy the universe at the end of the kalpa, 
what survives?” ——“The iron tree blooms in the void!” 
Knowing that nothing need be done, is where we begin to 
move from 
