_~ 
u 
In the pursuit of truth via participatory journalism our 
reporter at the Great Bus Race drank fluid from a Donald 
Duck glass. Consequently he was too stoned to function and 
misrepresented some facts, such as: 
* The Kitchen Bus is really the Just Bus 
* The Hospital Bus is really the Us Bus 
(Just Us Buses) 
* The other bus besides Road Hog is The Queen’s Midtown Tun- 
nel of Love Bus, and was the one which broke down. 
* Rocket wasn’t driving the Just Bus, Bob Redhat (narcoleptic 
from Ann Arbor) was. 
*Bucovich isn’t spelled Bucovich, it’s spelled some other way. 
Romney had lost his notes and was starting to make up facts, 
and the reporter sensed that once again truth was drifting. 
Here are some other accounts. Perhaps they converge. 
And in Aspen Meadow above Santa Fe the Great Bus Further 
lost her silver bell to the Great Bus Road Hog in the First An- 
nual Summer Solstice Great Bus Race. 
Ken Kesey 
9 Aug 69 ROLLING STONE 
The Great Bus Race 
c. 500 yards up the mountain, the same distance down, around 
a red flag marker and down past the swami’s gathering place where 
they all sit and chant OM. 
They’re off we get a terrible start, next to last, 5 buses up the 
hill-Bucko at the wheel picks up steam, passes them all except 
the Road Hog—bouncing, bumping—we’re scared as hell on 
top— the kids all love it— we lose our bell to the Road Hog— 
Get the Weather Vain from Just Bus. 2:29 the official record 
time. 
Paul Sawyer 
Obviously truth is not to be found in the past, nor 
likely in the future, next summer, when the buses 
race from Stonehenge to the Pyramids, maybe. 
Truth was good while it lasted. 
Village Technology 
| am happy that you find 
TECH NOTES interest- 
ing. To answer your 
questions: TECH NOTES 
is published as often as 
i 
| can get it out, given my 
other responsibilities. 
Hopefully it will soon 
have a full-time Editor 
and will appear bi-month- 
ly. We will be happy to 
send it to anyone inter- 
ested, free of charge. 
| have already received 
a dozen or so requests 
from Catalog readers. 
Vol.2, No. 2, should ap- 
pear in about a week. | 
think you'll find it much 
more substantial than the 
c 
January issue, It deals with Waterwheels, Chair Pumps, Sealed 
Wells, Rabbit Raising, Fertilizer Use in Corn, Corn Cob Pipes 
and a Low-Cost Grain Dryer. |’d be pleased to have any 
comments. 
Sincerely, 
Lester Goodin, Editor 
Tech Notes 
Peace Corps 
Washington, D.C. 20525 
a 
School Correction 
On page 90 of your Spring 1969 issue, under John Holt’s list you have 
listed our school inaccurately. 
We are a boarding school for kids 5-14 years of age (not N-K). Also 
somehow you have listed Minnesota Summerhill Community School 
at 827 Bassett Rd. Westlake, Ohio. This is really screwed up, 827 
Bassett was Greentree’s old address last year, not Minn. S‘hill School. 
Other than that, the kids and | really are absorbed by your catalog. 
Maybe I’m caught in the clutches of a great bum trip, but the July 
Supplement sure did bring me down, Like the outside says of the 
Earth, ‘Use it or lose it’’ which reminds me of those bumper strips 
“Love it or leave it.’ Like the cover has the great bus race, which 
from this distance looked like great fun and a grand unthinking rape 
of a lovely pasture. Do you think it will be in good enough shape next 
summer solstice? Or will they have to move on to newer, more unspoil- 
ed glens, like all the rest of us, squatters in our own home? And there 
is the guy who suggests importing a million lady bugs and mantises to 
take care of the insects in your garden you consider bad, Doesn't he 
know that that sort of thing has been done before,with disastrous results 
when the imports run out of bad bugs to feed on? Apparently not, 
all he quotes are statistics, Doesn’t he realize that what really upset 
the balance of nature, which he so casually mucks about with, is the 
fact that he is trying to grow all those artificially bred and extra tender 
plants anyway? Hybridized for bigger tomatoes and healthier aphids, 
On the same page, the classic Pogo, ‘‘We have met the enemy and they 
are us." Oh baby, are we ever. 
But the real bring down was the report in the SF GOOD TIMES about 
New Mexico. What the longhairs are doing there sounds like the British 
in India, or the-settlers in America, The people who wrote knew what 
ought to be happening, but it sounds like hardly anybody else did. 
When | think that most of the new people came from the middle class 
| think maybe al! we have been able to shuck off is the love of money, 
and still wrap ourselves tight in love of self and kind. Tribalism is just 
great for the people within, but it sure plays hell with any concern for 
anyone outside the blessed. 
It seems almost impossible for us to remember that we are all here to- 
gether. Longhairs and uptights, people and insects, and cows and flow- 
ers and so on. Peter Rabbit knows it, sounding like an indian as he 
squeezes the trigger. He kills to eat, not for giggles. 
| go Jeff Berner one more: Innerspace and Outerspace ARE the same. 
Someone once asked, ‘’Where is the outside of nature?” Where, too, is the 
inside of the world? 
Alan Watts is supposed to have said, “| 
am also you,” 
If we are the gods the Catalogue insists, we’d better recognize that we 
are subject to a Fate that not even Gods can disobey, the Fate of being. 
only a part of things, and that we are not and never can be grand megal- 
omaniac movers of the skys, and that we will never be free of the ways 
of the galaxies, even when we die. 
Yours, 
Cary James 
Mill Valley, California 
As one who helpled clean and polish Aspen Meadow after the 
Solstice gathering, |’m gonna take exception to your melancholy. 
We not only gathered and buried our own trash, we were pick- 
ing up debris from previous occupants. 
The Hog Farm rented 
the site for the weekend from the Nambe Pueblo. 
Users since 
then (dude ranchers and such) have not been so kind to the 
meadow (photo was taken 6 weeks later.) Sure enough lots of 
longhairs don’t know yet about invisible land use, but all the 
organized longhaired events I’ve been to recently performed the 
revolutionary motto: 
clean up and clear out, 
Other people’s garbage, 
Parachute 
One possible addition to p. 39, | recently bought two parachutes from 
the CHUTE SHOP—— box 445, Flemington, New Jersey, (201-782-5758) 
Zip 08822. 
They are 28 ft. diameter and both in excellent condition and cost $20.00 
which | believe improves on your item. Postage was extra, Dyed one in 
RI T——came out fine and seems to be holding color. 
Yours truly, 
Ned Vare 
Aspen Colorado 
Macrame 
What | know about foam 
houses is to find out more, 
check with Yale where some 
experimental stuff——and 
ugly as sin——has been 
going on. Better looking 
and more conventional, 
check with MASC 
(Midwest Applied Science 
Corp.) in West Bend, 
Indiana. These cats_are 
working on ‘‘pouring’’ foam 
houses with a convérted 
cherry picker truck, By 
now such data should be 
all over, but I’m often 
ahead of such shit. 
T.T. Kieffer 
New Yor, New York 
Fome 2 
The following companies are 
in commercial production of 
urethane foam systems and 
can provide full technical 
and application information, 
American Petrochemical” 
3134 California Street, N.E. 
Minneapolis, Minn, 55418 
Attn. Dick Higgins 
Unarco Industries 
1111 West Perry St. 
Bloomington, I\linois 
Attn, W. Phillips 
Cellular Products Corp, 
18656 Fitzpatrick 
Detroit, Mich. 
Attn, William Roethel 
General Latex and Chemicals 
High Street 
North Billerica, Mass. 
Attn, Don Segar 
Sherwin Williams Co, 
8250 St. Aubin St. , , 
Detroit, Michigan 48211 
Attn, Jack Mc Mahon 
PPG Industries 
742 Grayson St. 
Berkeley, California 
Attn, T, Lovelady 
Flintkote Company 
P.0.Box 5347 
_ 
Riverside, California 
Attn, Lou Cenegy 
Freeman Chemical Corp, 
P.O. Box 274 
Port Washington, Wisconsin 
Attn. Robert Winters 
General Plastics Co, 
3481 South 35th Street 
Tacoma, Washington 
Attn, L.W. Schatz 
North Carolina Foam Ind. 
P.O. Box 1112 
Mt. Airy, North Carolina 
Attn. Dr. H.W. Bradley 
Atlantis Chemical Corp. 
1700 Blaney St. 
Troy, Michigan 
Attn. R.A. Crossman 
M-R Plastics and Coatings 
11460 Dorsett Road 
Maryland Heights, Missouri 
Attn, Marvin Wool, 
Ant Farm 
Thank you for the excellent review 
of my book, “Macrame, the Art of 
Sincerely, 
: 
Joyce J. Townsend, Director 
Greentree School 
Waverly, Ohio 
Creative Knotting.” 
| am including an announcement of 
my forthcoming quarterly publication. 
It has been my decision to publish this 
material on a continuing basis rather than J 
include a limited amount of the infor- 
mation in a second book. 
Yours sincerely, 
Virginia |, Harvey 
2811 Northeast 82nd Street 
Seattle, Washington 98II5 
