ARM JOURNAL AND BABBS JUICE 
June 11 1969 
Wednesday, 
FARM GROVELS IN ECBTABY OVER WET TUESDAY ACTIVITIES 
Kesey has Sad bgt Welcome Homecoming 
UFO Freak Drops by for Supper 
Doc Returns From Hospital 
FREEDOM RINGS LOUD 
(in our poor ears) 
An Editorial 
The wave sweeping our nation is one of individual freedom. Not the 
freedom to destroy and end our earthly existence. But the freedom 
to be creative and experimentive. With this freedom comes the 
responsibility of standing up to our actions, no matter the con- 
sequences, 
We are intelligent enough we need not fear our actions. And 
once | accept my freedom to manipulate this material world I’ve 
been set upon, to claim as my own, | accept also the attempts of 
those less free to shackle me. I’m on to their methods, these self- 
righteous policemen, 
| know when they say they are sick of my 
voice they are lying for | see no puke on the ground. And when 
Gordon says an extension cord to the kitchen will cost us the 
pump and juice to the space heater house he is lying because water 
still comes out of the tap and | can hear the record player from here 
in the dining hall, 
But | accept your fears, as part of the responsibility of my freedom. 
My freedom to decide that today, cold, wet, a blue Monday, | will 
do whatever | can to cheer up the kitchen and dining hall. To keep 
the snuffly nosed kids inside out af the rain. To use all the magic of 
electricity this day, come what may. 
Because we are intelligent beings of this, our planet. What! do today, 
@iy 
Weather: 
Wo end in site 
ODYSSEY EDITING: That’ funnyman” with the bad back has 
bent over his tape equipment for days doing “rough cut” of 
the some 20 tapes made at the Odyssey last week. You will 
relive the great moments of this gig whether you wishto or not, 
Babbs will come up with 3-5 reels of selected carefully trimmed 
bits of goodies, Then these pieces will be rearranged and may- 
be cut into smaller pieces and made up into “performance 
tapes” with lots of surprises, hot flashes, appositions, off- 
colors, nose-tweaks and badmouthing: for our corrective 
amusement. 
DUMP RUN: You may have noticed the crap tickling the 
bottom of your chin 
Your loyal work crew consisting of 
Page and Gordon will relieve your chin today by GETTING 
THE DUMP TRUCK STARTED and taking that crap (and 
your chin, if you request) to Heron Island Sanitary Landfill 
(or whateveritcalled). A rider or two welcome. 
STEREO SPLICE SOUND CENTER: 
Babbs is contemplating 
converting Ramrod’s room in the Space Heater House to the 
sound room, to put in a safe dry place all the nice electronic 
{ 
gear that he and others have been putting together and using. 
And besides, it’s going to rain and he just can’t leave it 
outside, So look for a few hours of toil in rearranging the 
room and installing a fine array of wires and boxes in there. 
And the carpenter is going to put a kid-proof and parrot- 
dog-proof latch on the door (tho all are probably sometimes 
j 
welcome with proper restraintes). When Olive Oy! gets back 
) 
we can plug her in too, 
— 
Remember that nice, big, fat male rabbit whose life we spared in the 
Great Bunny Kill? He has been doing very well on his own since 
being turned loose, scurrying around under the barn and in the 
chicken coop, getting fatter all the time. ‘“He’’ has now taken up 
semi-permanent residence in the chicken coop now, where “he” 
is caring for “his’’ new-born litter of fuzzy bunnies, Great news for 
the barbecue lovers, but a bit of an embarassing note for the rabbit- 
sexers, 
Better luck next time, sexers! 
| 
| create, and tomorrow will be a:hassle anew. 
/ 
f 
All you religeosi, rejoice! We are now a Church, with the receipt in 
Babbs 
yesterday's mail of our official Charter from the Universal Life 
c 
: 
\ Church. 
It’s for Real, Official, True; the Universal Life Church of 
i 
| Pleasant Hill now Is, Head-quarters will be located in the George- 
Calling all gardeners,..the farm planted all that stuff out in the 
big garden last saturday and some it still hasn’t been 
j 
watered. There is a big orange tank of water in the garden 
\ 
which has a hose attached, use it puhleez; there is a big pile 
of hay there also and it should be spread between and around 
the little plants before the weeds grow more...the peas in the 
little garden are getting too big and falling over and starting 
to show fungus damage, so Nancy has started stringing them 
up, she needs help and string...the strawberries need Picking 
and watering, somebody please take care of them... the row 
crops in the little garden still need more thinning...we need 
a truckload of hay there too...watering should if possible be 
done in the morning because if done at night the surfaces of 
the plants don’t dry off all night and promote fungus rots... 
we should plant more corn in the big garden, you know you 
will want to eat in September.,..enough about the gardens... 
Let’s get the animals out of the barn...the only ones left are 
rabbits and we should build a coop and yard for them outside... 
| suggest Robin could be in charge of this and with her per- 
suasive abilities build a work crew to KICK OUT THE 
BUNNIES...then the carpenter crew can build the John 
Page Browning Boys and Girls Dormitory where the little 
bunnies used to be...bunk beds, windows, insulation?, a 
new door, clean floor... Tl 
Hen House: Liz is our chicken-house expert. She gathers the eggs 
and feeds and waters the chickens each day (once a day) in the 
evening. 
| believe we get more eggs if the hens are disturbed only 
once aday. But Farmers get egg-hunger at all hours, and are 
tempted to go into the henhouse in search of special personal egg 
supplies. On the surface, I'd say that’s ignorance and selfishness. 
But saying that would be playing God. 
__— 
Now we can start looking to the more distant future. Funer- 
al, birth, Oddyssey, solstice, are just about finished. What 
will be happening at the farm when these things are passed, 
on Monday, June 23? We know that there are hundreds of 
People thinking now of visiting here in the next few months 
school is out, vacation and travel time has started. Some 
visitors will be old friends that we will be excited to see. 
Others we don’t know yet will come in such numbers that 
nearly none will become friends. Do we need some thinking 
about how to hand this so it doesn’t drive us nuts and drown 
us in Kleenex, beercans and roaches? We have 60 acres which 
temporary one-day visitors can sleep on in sleeping bags and 
campers, We have 12 rooms for more permanent people, and 
they are just about full right now, and we know that more 
of the “family” are coming———Roy will be back, Jim 
Moses, Frankie? Janet, Ellen, Jason% Ramrod, Pat and Bubbles 
| don't think we can afford to offer rooms these people have 
built, to needy people who need a free resort for the summer, 
But, then, I’m just being a tight asshole, right? Why in this 
world if we just love and give it will come back to us some 
TS 
or ar 
rrr 
Food food food food 
crisis crisis crisis crisis 
The people in the kitchen, hard-ass Paula in particular, say 
there just isnt any food worth mentioning for supper or any 
other meal in sight. Here is what we need quick: 
salad vegetables except lettuce 
cooking vegetables 
brown sugar 
honey 
non-instant powdered milk 
don’t waste money on fucking peanut butter 
Course this food thing is really a drag, y'know, takes money, 
takes labor to cook it, why down at the store we can get 
Pop-top lunch for $1,25 per six cans, The little babies like 
it in their bottles, and we can all cook those 200 pounds of 
brown rice in it, mmmmgood, 
\ Bg! Sara bus-church. Help us pray for guidance and a new engine. 
' 
im, 
\ 
‘TIS _NOT BY 
DROPPING 
MAELSTROM OF (q 
£/FE ITSELF 
-- fs 
P 
THAT THOU Beet 
SHALT FIND 
THY A/SDOA 
THERE 
I) BE CAUSES 
Espouse!! 
BIG SLAUGHTER 
Ken gets the bull to look straight at him, then with one .22 
bullet in the head somewhere the bull falls instantly. Then 
the neck is cut lengthwise from under chin to breast, and the 
two big arteries leading from the heart are cut, several gallons 
of blood drain away. Feet are removed, tail, then hide is 
skinned away. Ken is very fast and sure. Eddie was filming 
(black and white) the scene, he’s from British Columbia and has 
done in cows himself, says that Ken’s by far the fastest surest 
slaughterer he’s seen. With the hide off all but the back, the 
winch is used to half-raise the cow, the hide cut away, then 
the belly slit and entrails removed and put in the truck. 
The caracass is hoisted up off the ground, washed, cut in 
half and hung in the truck. About 15 minutes for the whole 
Lanny We are cooking the lungs and flukey liver for the 
~~ 
——— 
ee 
an 
This morning has been hard on my stomach. | think [Il 
90 away for a few hours and think about something nicer, 
ILLNESSES 
Eat and sleep carefully, there’s stomach-bowel sickness going 
around, And keep warm because that rain will get you. Take 
off wet shoes, and help keep the fire going in the dining hall. 
HEAVY DAY 
With rain, slaughter, illness, there are many psychological 
dangers for farmers, young and old. One frustration will come 
out in bad temper elsewhere, and your bad temper will spread. 
So today is a time to get out all those fakey sickly smiles and 
shine on your neighbor who is about to throw his tools in a 
puddle, kick a dog, and go sulk. If it is time for you to stub 
your toe, nature will provide just the right height stone for 
} 
your toe to stub on, The Farm provides all the bad trips anyone 
can use. So the question is, do you want to avail yourself of 
every opportunity, or to pass up as many as you can?? 
aie 
OR 
eae 
ae 
Se 
a 
ALL ASSHOLE FARM EXPOSE 
| hope that this week is the Farm’s lowest point for the summer, be- 
cause if it gets any lower | don’t have a decent place to live. Dear 
reader, if | should mention some detail of fucked-up-ed-ness, you 
can match me with some detail you have observed; so don’t fight 
me, you are as uncomfortable and as displeased as me. But, you 
may not feel as bad about this place as | do: you may have just 
arrived and found a slightly sloppy free summer camp, where you 
can fuck without your mother finding out, there are no annoying 
counselors and no schedule. 
But | think of this as my (at-least) temporary home. And | like 
: 
my home to be clear of broken glass and papers, my tools and supplies 
put away, | like to keep track of my guests, take care of my animals, 
keep my clothes hung up out of the way, and keep the equipment 
running, 
But this farm is far from that. When you see a chocolate milk 
carton lying in the driveway, how long has it been there? And 
how many people have passed it thinking nothing, seeing nothing 
or else maybe saying ““That’s the twenty-ninth chocolate milk 
carton | seen today, if | picked them up, that’s all I'd be doing all day. 
Our average Farmer (Asshole) says to himself: 
“I’m here visiting 
(for a day, a week, a month or a vear) and |’m not really a part of 
this farm, just a guest, so | can’t do anything really effective about 
the Farm’s condition.” 
But, who are the non-guests, the permanent 
residents? Well, Page & Nadine, Gordon & Nancy. The rest of you 
can’t be expected to take initiatives because you’re not going to be 
here long. But while you are here you are living in shit, slop, cold, 
hunger, and bediam. 
| gues you'll stay as long as you can stand it. 
\’d like to see a group of 10 or so people cooperating, taking 
initiatives, picking up the chocolate milk carton, putting away food 
that’s out, cleaning up, helping other people, fixing thing, closing 
the gates, taking care of the equipment. 
| believe the key to the 
problem is: STABILITY LEADS TO A FEELING OF COMMUNITY. 
We have very little sense of community here, except in desperate 
moments when everybody musthelp. Most of the time, most of us 
are “pigs at the trough”: 
if you don’t eat fast, your sty-mate will 
get more than you do. And if you don’t avoid chores, you will be 
doing more work than your sty-mate. 
| believe everyone _ who is 
here for more than a few days falls into this pattern: the place 
just causes it, Because there is no sense of community, each 
person is “right” in grabbing the goodies and avoiding the work. 
This is, maybe, DECAY. 
This is social decay: where the natural forces of the family (help- 
ing, loving, working together) are driven out by selfishness and the 
fear of working on a bad project. 
| believe that the decay, the pigs-at-the-trough feeling, 
is caused 
by the INSTABILITY. When a stable group of ten lives together 
for weeks, natural forces work for community feeling. When the 
Farm is more than 20% tourists, when the family feeling is broken up 
every day or two by departures and arrivals, | see no hope, 
GEORGE’S ART OBJECT 
George is way out in front in the All Asshole Farm 
Aesthetic Cotillion for the day: He discovered a 
bedpan with a turd floating in it on the bathroom 
floor. Good Hunting, George. 
CLAP CLAP FOR PATTICLAPE 
Patticake had her strange bladder pain diagnosed in 
town the other day. Yes, Yes, we have genuine 
gonorrhea right here on the farm. It was a riot 
watching her trying to get up the gumption to tell 
ae that she had given it to him the night before. 
a 
Ha. 
All this was last June. In following weeks a solstice 
trip to Stonehenge fell through (Kesey forgot his 
passport), Further placed in the Great Bus Race at 
Aspen Meadows, the Farm burgeoned with immi- 
grants (to about 65), there was some kind of ruckus 
with outsiders where Kesey got no help from farm- 
sters and was wounded in action; he subsequently 
asked everybody to leave, and set about enjoying his 
first peace and quiet since jail. “‘I learned to say no, 
after a long time of not saying no.” The banished 
Farmsterns drove Further east to glory in service of 
the 400,000 at Woodstock. Last report from the Hog 
Farm was that the travelling Farmsters were having to 
dissolve from under an overload of travelling hangers- 
on. | don’t know the moral to this story yet, and 
neither do you. 
Sr 
ck
