low COST HOUSING INDUSTRY 
There are many qualified people working creatively in the area of low cost 
housing that would be interested in forming a nucleus such as this industry. 
Each factory complex would include the manufacturing of: 
Family size zome and dome units /Industrial size dome parts/Aluminum 
and plastic panel forming/Joints and connections tool and die making/ 
Plastics lab/Solar heat lab/Shipping and storage/Administration and tech- 
nical information center. The estimated cost for this project is $5,000,000. 
With the increase in population the demand for further low cost housing 
is reaching drastic proportions all over the world. One of America’s sol- 
utions to this problem of rehousing people in some cities is to build mas- 
sive cell block high-rises and store people like so many bees. Another sol- 
ution is to build row after row after row of motel-looking pre-fabs. ‘You 
are what you eat’ or look like what you live in, union approved. There has 
to be alternative solutions to the ant hill society and they must lie in offer- 
ing wider choices to people in search of future dwelling. 
Standing on the earth in Colorado where Libre is 
one can imagine the life of all man 
to be so extraordinary & filled with activity & joy 
that no one decision will be for all men. 
When standing on the earth in Libre 
one can believe in man as he is 
not as he could be 
or as he was. 
Let us all try to create Libre where we are, 
Then Libre will be where we are. 
—— Ed Schlossberg 
- 
Libre wants to form a commercial snapper & 
grouper fishing community on the west coast of 
Florida/ a vessel large enough for 8-10 people to live 
and work on will be purchased / crews will be made 
up from several communities in different parts of 
the country / they'll fish for part of the year as an 
alternate life style / all we need is funds to buy the 
boat 
Libre is an advanced behavioural research team. 
—— John McHale 
There are 2000 acres of very beautiful farming- 
grazing-forest land for sale near here. The land is 
from 8-10,000’ on the warm slope of Greenhorn 
Mtn. & is priced from $60-$200 per acre. This is 
relatively cheap land but land prices are appreciating 
in this area at over 100% a year. Somebody’s got to 
buy this land / make it free /& open to community 
development. 
Free land makes free men. 
Libre is available at any time to lecture, advise & 
execute Environmental Designs —— Alternate Life 
Styles ——- Community Designs —— Value Systems—— 
Communications —— Education —— Technology —— 
Art & Esthetics —— Drugs. Lectures include film 
and slide presentations. 
19 
