FARM Bulletin Board 
Ye \ \\ Copies RA te | 
ars colored ; 
AOE igen 
tree 
Bolus oar 
Ra 
ONT 
“sue 
go oe Sow dors Lee 
nN 
WSS 
Se 
en ac oe en 
: 
Be Nes Reka bales 
sie pled eos. Naa a Nn... Brera. 
oe 
Se Se. 
Lathes 
* Pook Tires 
Excerpts from the many-paged document... 
THE FARM JOURNAL AND BABBS JUICE 
Friday June 13, 1969 
Weather:Cloudy with chance of clearing 
BLESSED EVENT AT CABIN !!!! 
NADINE AND PAGE PRODUCE !!! 
INTREPID REPORTER ON HAND 
Daughter born to joyous couple sits up for pic. 
HOSANNA AND HURRAH FROM THE HIGHEST TO THE LOW 
ON A SUCCESSFUL BIRTH 
At elevent minutes before eight this morning, Nadine gave birth to 
a fine healthy pink skinned daughter. 
Page had stepped out of the cabin for a moment. 
Contractions were steady and fierce, but with Nadine directing the 
energy, the baby moved swiftly down the birth canal, through the 
cervix, and appeared at the “door.” 
Babbs, on hand for the occasion, broke the membrane with his 
finger, allowing the juices to flow freely and the head to push through. 
A great effort followed, the whole head was out, the contraction 
brought the body and we saw it was a girl. 
By this time Page had reappeared. 
OUR EQUIPMENT 
ELECTRONIC 
Inputs:3-5 microphones with attached hippie 
4track tape machine with lag 
other 4-track tape machine 
record player with bouncing scraping needle arm 
electric guitars?? and harmonica and voices 
WLS 
ound 
ae Dilek, eat 
Rebs PRE a Vie 
Kabhem nek do Ve 
Steodoeery len ‘ fersetlr 
; Vem Cine Ke. 
“That don’t give up easily.’”’ says Page. 
“Emergency, Says Craig. This cups broken,” 
SO YOU WANTA FUCK THE EARTH? 
(an editorial) 
Got your rocks off yet, Hippies? 
Had your belly fill of goodies? 
Have you looted your fill? 
If so, take a gawk at the mother lode. 
Messy, ain’t it? 
Yeah, that’s right, man, you been 
Fucking the earth rotten. 
Now clean it up and take care of yours. 
—— 
SUMMER SHUFFLE 
Read carefully, this complex sequence. 
Dick goes to New 
Mexico, Carol moves to dickes room from library, Snake lady 
moves from Roy’s room to library, Gordon and Nancy move 
from school house to Roy’s room, later Faye moves from 
Geneva’s to schoolhouse, ‘it’s what’s happening, baby” 
_er—rnrnr''-.__—_—_———_—————S—$S$$S—$_—~_L»—_—~___———"- 
IT’S ALWAYS FAIR WEATHER WHEN OLD FRIENDS GET 
TOGETHER 
Farmsters May Come and Farmsters May Go 
. 
And Them What Is ls Them What Do (or don’t) 
The Farm is graced again by a large populance, how green does grow 
the garden. 
Lord Buckley said people were the flowers in his garden. 
Don Shaw said all he wants from life is 
aplace where people can 
nurture. 
“A child is but a moment,” Kit Mc Clanahan said. 
“Crying never hurt anyone,” said Babbs. 
* 
 “Guck,” said Sucki. 
5 
“hot” said Strider. 
i 
**1 don’t like cantaloupe,” said Monica, 
“Look what | got,” said Sean. 
“It came out of the Space Heater House. 
What is it? 
Where did it come from originally? 
Where is its destination, 
These are the questions plaguing the Farmsters today, 
just as they plagued the Farmsters in the past. 
The Mormons were saved by Seagulls. 
a 
ile 
=~ ~~ 
~ 
Think Dirty——— 
Things grow in dirt 
: 
The underground movement is necessary if 
you’re going to plant stuff and grow it. 
In fact he was there for the whole thing, Nadine having the 
presence of mind to send Bukovich looking. 
“Piped right up, didn’t he,” said the proud father. 
“Yep.” squalled like a baby. 
Cassie assisted with back rubs, wet cotton balls to the lips, and solid 
reassurance, 
Gretch provided swabs, blankets, tie ties for the cord, scissors, and 
kotex from Nadine’s well prepared stash. 
Ata 
finely timed moment, Buko came back with hot tea for all 
Participants, 
At press time the Farmsters are gathering around the breakfast 
table, the afterbirth blazing merrily in the fire-place on the patio. 
In Between: Mike Mixer for putting all those mikes together 
Bukla machine for preamplifying and mixing and matching 
Dyna 70 amplifier for all this stuff 
Output: Two home made high-rent speakers with psychedelicious 
cloth on front 
Big double metal horns from the Bus 
THE FARM JOURNAL AND BABBS JUICE 
Friday June 6, 1969 
Weather: misty 
MAJOR NIGHT RUCKUS OVERWHELMS FARM!!! 
Residents Awakened by Row. 
Can the Avenging Father save his Daughter's Purity? 
Or, it’s too late now, dearie. 
Noted Prick Strikes Again! 
this morning. 
Foggy, damp, cool etc, in office 
Friday morning approximately 1:00 AM Bie, and his wife and 
Dale followed Page and Ramrod and Johnny into the driveway. As 
they all got out of the cars, MMMM looked the crew over carefully. 
Page observed that Magali looked like he wanted to drop somebody. 
Dale then announced that they were looking for young Miss aaa. 
Page knew where she was and went straight to her in Hagen’s truck. 
Page told Hagen than SMBS was raising a row and wanted his 
daughter back. {8% kept calling Hagen a prick. He wanted his 
daughter away from that prick Hagen. Hagen is nothing but a prick. 
Mother and father said that they’d read about his reputation. They 
said that when they got hold of Hagen he wasn’t going to talk in 
that sweet high voice of his anymore. This brought Hagen out of 
the bushes eager to experience this exciting new transformation. 
Upon which Mr. @@mB9 began chasing Mike around the driveway 
in a circle with six guys trying to keep track of who they had hold of. 
Meanwhile mother piles out of the car screaming that, ‘“You even 
offered our youngest daughter a drink!” This girl but a slip of ten or 
so. (Mike you devil) Qaaimil™y says, ‘After | took you into my house 
and fed you you go and fuck my daughter !’” 
Gordon came out and said, ““A man’s a man.” 
@@mmmm demanded nastily why he was intruding and Gordon noted 
that his sleep was being disturbed. 3 had no interest in 
anyone’s comfort. He wanted the ass of his daughter's betrayer. 
“What kind of a man are you to keep a seventeen year old girl out 
until five o'clock in the morning?’’Mrs, SS demanded. 
Page said, ‘If you guys can come up with a new script I'll film 
this. You're using an old script.” 
“Some man you are keeping a sixteen year old girl out until five 
o'clock in the morning.” Said @aaamar. 
“Hagen isn’t going to hurt your daughter,” says Page. 
“Damn right he isn’t going to hurt my daughter. I’m going to 
have the Sheriff on his ass, 
|'ve read all about Hagen’s reputation.” 
“Now wait a minute...” said Mike 
“Now wait a minute,” mocked imma. “I’m going to have the 
Sherriff on your ass Hagen. That'll change your sweet fucking tune!” 
“Now, now Mr, Saae,”’ said Dale. 
“Fuck you too, You're the same kind of asshole he is.”’ 
gga’ face was purple with rage. He screamed and ranted and 
shouted his anger up at the impassive yard light illuminating the drama 
in violet. 
Your reporter watched silent and naked from a nearby window. 
After @iimmmiar left he asked Hagen if it was true that he had kept a 
Miss @888F out until five A.M. and who was right Mr. or Mrs. 
that is is Miss SBP sixteen or seventeen. 
“She’s in my truck right now,” Mike replied. “‘I’d better get her 
home right away.” 
‘ 
Within moments the Mustang (Vol 147 California) sped off into the 
night. It returned much later. 
rent nie 
EDITOR DECRIES LACK OF COMMUNICATION 
(an Editorial) 
Last night’s activities about the Farm brought 
my attention to the fact that there is a terrible 
lack of communication among the Farmsters. 
Although it is true we are striving for ESP in 
its pure form, itis a sad fact we havn't achieved 
anything yet. 
In lieu of this ideal, let’s settle, Farmsters, 
for the realistic level. 
When good friends get together, it’s always 
fair weather. 
And when a confrontation is taking place, let’s 
have our full crew on hand. 
Wake up your buddy. 
Ring the alarm Bell. 
Full crew to the rescue. 
Turn that incident into a debacle. 
Loosen the humor in your hurt. 
And remember, a Sleeping Farmster is a useless 
Farmster to the scene. 
MORE RANDOM NOTES AND QUOTES 
“We were just out here listening to the rain,” said Mike early this 
morning, “when | heard this screaming elephant., Screaming 
drunk elephant.” ‘Hey, You dirty Son of a Bitch” 
”“| knew something was up.” 
“Did SW make it to the truck?” 
“No. Page came down and warned me.” 
“Do you know the correct age of the lady in question?” 
“Uh, | believe it is seventeen. Oh shit.” 
“Could you give us your views on possible legal complications?” 
“The drunk elephant said, You Bastard. 
I'll throw your ass in jail. 
Was Sag showing up a surprise? 
“Surprise! Dragging me around by my shirt was a surprise.” 
“There is no ire like that of a mother and father who feel their 
daughter is horribly wronged and | sympathize with them.” 
“1 was going to bypass the situation down here unti] @@a88 yelled, 
“Where's that little pipsqueak, Hagen?”’ 
Did you go up to face him then? 
“Yes, 
|t was not unlike dealing with some huge polar bear.” 
(note. Until this time. The elephant was at large. From now on, 
( will be alternately a polar bear and a grisly bear.) 
Did Pat ever make an appearance? 
“No. She hid in the bushes.” 
- 
~ 
How did S88 know daughter was there? 
: 
") don’t know. Like | told him, You’re making too big a deal out of 
this.” 
Then S@ said, ‘But Dale told me what kind of a guy you are.” 
So there you have it. A celebrity fuck here at the Farm with all its 
grisly, polar, and elephantine crossovers and feedbacks. 
jars 
Brit 
(_ mean’ 
Whole Earth 
“« 
chicken 
about lata si‘te.) 
ACOUSTIC 
Drums with drummer 
Guitar?? 
i 
: 
People tripping over the wires and equipment 
