This is the first draft of a work in progress by Gary 
Snyder, /t arose as a by-product of the Wild West 
debacle, from the warmth of numerous meetings of 
ecological activitists working up to-and out of a display 
at Wild West. 
/t’s been arising in Gary Snyder for years. 
On August 17 he submitted this draft for scrutiny by 
@ group including Cliff and Mary Humphrey, Keith 
Lampe, Sterling Bunnell, Stephanie Mills, Joan 
© 
t 
Mcintyre, Edward Bear, and others whose names | 
. 
didn’t get. Gary ran the scrutiny session with a light 
: 
perceptive hand. 
The results .you will see in the final 
version soon to be printed throughout the underground 
press. 
I. POPULATION 
The Condition 
position: Man is but a part of the fabric of life——dependant 
of course on the whole fabric for his very existence, and also 
responsible to it. As the most highly developed tool-using 
animal, he must recognize that the evolutionary destinies 
(unknown) of other life forms are to be respected, and act 
as gentle steward of the earth’s community of being. 
situation: There are now too many human beings, and the 
problem is growing rapidly worse. It is potentially disastrous 
not only for the human race but for most other life forms. 
goal: The goal would be half of the present world population 
or less. 
Action 
social/political: Legalize abortion, encourage vasectomy and 
sterilization (provided free by clinics)-remove income tax 
deductions for more than two children above a specified 
income level, and scale it so that lower income families are 
forced to be careful too. Take a vigorous stand against the 
Catholic church and any other institutions that exercise an 
irresponsible political force in regard to this question; work 
ceaselessly to make all political problems be seen and solved 
in the light of this prime problem. 
the community: Explore other social structures and marriage 
’ forms, such as group marriage and polyandrous marriage which 
provide family life but which produce less children. Share 
the pleasure of raising children widely, so that all need not 
directly reproduce to enter into this basic human experience. 
Let no two persons produce more than two children. Adopt 
children. Let reverence for life and for the feminine mean also 
a reverence for other species, most of which are threatened. 
our own heads: 
“I am a child of all life, and all living beings 
are my brothers and sisters, my children_and grandchildren. 
& there is a child within me waiting to be brought to birth, 
the baby of a new and wiser self.” Love, love-making, a 
male and a female together, seen as the vehicle of mutual 
realization, where the creation of new selves and new worlds 
of beings is as important as making babies. 
NG 
II. POLLUTION 
The Condition 
position: Pollution is an excess production of substances which’ 
cannot be absorbed or transmuted rapidly enough to offset 
their introduction, thus causing changes the cycle is not 
prepared for. All organisms have wastes and by-products, and 
these are indeed part of the total eco-system; energy is 
passed along the line and refracted in various ways, “the 
rainbow body.” This is cycling, not pollution. 
situation: The human race in the last century has allowed its 
production and dissemination of wastes, by-products and 
various chemical substances to become excessive. Pollution 
is directly harming the eco-system. It is also ruining the 
environment in very direct ways for humanity itself. 
goal: Clean air, clean clear-running rivers, the Presence 
of Pelicans and Ospreys in our lives, unmuddied language 
and good dreams. 
Action 
social/political: Waste and by-product quantity must be 
reduced. Strong legislation controlling DDT and related 
pesticides with no fooling around. Direct exposure of the 
collusion of certain scientists, the pesticide industry, and 
agri-business in trying to block this legislation. Strong 
penalties for air and water pollution by industry. 
“Polution is somebody’s profit.” Phase out petroleum 
fuels, explore all possible energy sources of a non-polluting 
nature: solar power. Tell the truth regarding atomic waste 
disposal and the threat it represents. Stop all germ and 
chemical warfare research and experimentation. Laws 
and sanctions encouraging the use of bio-degradable 
substances; and sanctions against wasteful use of paper, 
etc. which adds to the solid waste of cities. Determine 
methods of re-cycling solid urban waste; and re-cycling 
as a basic principle should inform all waste-disposal 
thinking. 
the community: DDT and such: don’t use them. Air 
pollution: use less cars. Cars pollute the air, and one 
or two people riding lonely in a huge car is an insult to 
intelligence and the Muse. Share rides, pick up hitch- 
hikers, legalize hitch-hiking and build hitch-hiker waiting 
stations along the highways. Also——as a step toward 
the new world——walk more; look for the best routes 
through beautiful countryside for long-distance walking 
trips: San Francisco to Los Angeles down the Coast 
Range, for one. Learn how to use your own manure 
as fertilizer if you’re in the country——as the far East 
has done for centuries. There’s a way, and it’s safe. T 
+ Usually aging in concrete vats or cisterns sunk in the earth 
adjoining the field is the only processing. After @ 2 months 
the material is a consistent fluid which can be ladled or 
pumped into the soil between the rows of plants. Problems 
of worms and disease in Japan are negligible. 
Four 
Changes 
Solid waste: boycott wasteful Sunday papers which use up 
trees, and add vastly to the solid waste of the city. Refuse 
paper bags at the store. Organize park and street cleanup 
festivals. 
Don’t waste ——( a monk and an old master were 
once walking in the mountains. They noticed a little hut 
upstream. The monk said, “‘A wise hermit must live there’”— 
the master said, “That’s no wise hermit, you see that 
lettuce leaf floating down the stream, he’s a Waster.” Just 
then an old man came running down the hill with his beard 
flying and caught the floating lettuce leaf.) 
our own heads: Part of the trouble with talking about DDT 
is that the use of it is not just a practical device, it’s almost 
an establishment religion. There is something in western 
culture that wants to totally wipe out creepy-crawlies and 
feels repugnance for toadstools and snakes. This is fear of 
one’s own deepest natural inner-self wilderness areas, and 
the answer is, relax. Relax around bugs, snakes and your 
own hairy dreams. Again farmers can and should share their 
crop with a certain percentage of buglife as “paying their 
dues” ——Thoreau says “How then can the harvest fail? 
Shall I not rejoice also at the abundance of the weeds whose 
seeds are the granary of the birds? It matters little. com- 
paratively whether the fields fill the farmer’s barns. The 
true husbandman will cease from anxiety, as the squirrels 
manifest no concern whether the woods will bear chestnuts 
this year or not, and finish his labor with every day, relin- 
quish all claim to the produce of his fields, and sacrificing 
in his mind not only his first but his last fruits also.” In 
the realm of thought, inner experience, consciousness, as in 
the outward realm of interconnection, there is a difference 
between a balanced cycle, and the excess which cannot he 
_ 
handled. When the balance is right, the mind recycles from 
é 
highest illumination to the stillness of dreamless sleep; the 
alchemical “transmutation.” 
Ill. CONSUMPTION 
The 
Condition_ 
position: Consumption is also a matter of balances and the 
problems that arise with excess. “The Wanton Boy that 
kills a fly shall feel the Spider’s enmity.” 
situation: Man’s use of dozens of “‘resources”’ and his total 
dependance on certain of them (like dependance on fossil 
fuels) exhausts certain presences in the biosphere with 
incalculable results on the other members of the network: 
while rendering mankind vulnerable to the consequences 
of the loss of major supplies. In fragile areas animals and 
