From Walter Bowart to Libre 
Our group could not be called a community because it 
is attached very strongly with the larger community, the 
world, and uses the same economic system and flows 
along lines of employment and wages. Same old linear 
organizational thinking and it’s beginning to take on the 
idea of a University. We'll call it 
h 
of the Art. 
From our experience over the past 2 years, greeting people 
at the door who are on the road looking for a place to call 
home, we've found that the majority of travellers are 
without skills, crafts, or much discipline at all, and are 
seeking community and “spiritual” life as an escape from) 
their failures with the work-aday world. Then, again, most 
are so young that they are only running away from home, 
It seems to me that a community must be a place where 
communion occurs. 
In order for me personally to 
commune with a neighbor he has to have something of the 
same goal, if not values, that | have. | mean, in the 
early days at Paradise when there were no leaders, no 
responsibility, no direction, | got very tired of finding my 
toothbrush being used to polish someone’s shoes, This 
I would not do to you and expect you not to do it to me. 
So territorial imperitive and God's gift of caste come into 
play here. 
| have been thinking for quite a while about using the 
facilities of OMEN PRESS (now just beginning) to perform 
the charitable and thankless task of Printing a closed 
circulation community newletter to go to leadership- 
type individuals in each community. 
In order to receive 
the letter (or bulletin) the individual in the community 
would have to be responsible for submitting news of his 
community. 
| see Our group as specializing in communications between 
tribes. There must be 100 communities by now. Has 
anyone made a list? 
Have you heard of DeRopp’s community in California? 
He wrote The Master Game, 
Have you read the book? 
If not, get it. 
Ideally, there may come a time when those “spiritual 
communities” 
will really be religious schools teaching 
Karma Yoga, Hatha Yoga, Prana Yoga, Jana Yoga, 
Bhakti Yoga, etc. Each would specialize, like a Sufi Mas- 
ter, in teaching a craft or Yoga which will surreptitiously, 
“since there can be no esoteric schools,” be a disciplined 
way of learning religious life. Then each Master will be 
able to send those who have learned enough or those who 
cannot learn from him at all on to a place where he 
suspects they will learn more —— or back in the world. 
Myself, | love discipline, learning, growth and now that 
| am past the 30 mark | have little tolerance left for the 
half-assed ennui-Taoist philosophy of “Do your own 
thing, baby’” —— the excuse for laziness or murder... 
We’ve been encountering such a large number of beggars, 
misfits, dopers and wastrels along the way that methinks 
the word “community” on the gate outside the farm 
should be changed to hospital. 
OM 
Walter Bowart 
Bx 12457” 
Tucson, Arizona 85711 
- From Lloyd Kahn to Libre 
I'll be working, starting next week, with Pacific High 
School, an experimenta! and far-out school in the Santa 
Cruz Mountains. 
We'll be building a 12 meter dome workshop as head- 
quarters for a design team consisting of me, J. Baldwin, 
Paul Wingate and Philo Farnsworth. There are plans for 
about 6 small domes on a hillside for staff and a ferro- 
concrete bathhouse, We’ll make eacti structure different, 
to try something new each time. How much we actually 
‘get done will depend on how we get along with the 
building inspector and finances, 
3 
The kids are very excited by the whole thing. Our idea is 
to have our dome team based at the school with students 
helping us in both prefabrication and erection (as well as 
experimentation). A school that does something. The 
thing that excites me most is the stimulation of working 
with bright young minds, “Hey, you know why we don’t 
do this...?” a guy from Stanford is going to teach math 
related to what we’re doing (domes, navigation, sunflower 
spirals). 
{We'll film as we go, I’li publish a dome instruction book- 
let there (there’s a printing press) and I'll be in a position 
to apply for grants. 
Last week we got a surplus radome for $100. Paul, who 
manages to see everything spotted it in crates in a surplus 
yard —— the manager of the depot didn’t even know it 
was there. 
It’s not geodesic —— fiberglass, good condition, 
with scaffold, wind vent at top. We’ll be putting it up this 
week, 
J will follow me by about a week, He’s working with 
Farnsworth who has designed a beautiful sphere on a 
pedestal, a modular vertex structure formed of sections of 
cones that are helium-filled transparent bubbles. We're 
trying to get enough together for a presentation to HUD 
for their “Operation Breakthrough” by Sept 19. Once 
the patent goes through |’Il send pics, 
Tony, I’d like to know what you’ve worked up with 
washers, We’re going to get into space frames before Jong. 
My 20 meter dome in Golden Gate Park was all set to go. 
The day we were to pick up the conduit, the festival was 
cancelled, There’s a lot of violence out here now. 
8 mm Films (Shadow League) 
Whole Earth Catalog—— 
Said | would send you a list of 8 mm films for sale when 
| subscribed and since then I’ve been writing everyone —— 
Very few worthwhile new things; useful in catalog sense—— 
| have made a film of the birth of our second child “The 
Map of the Birth” for $20——no time yet to print. 
Stan Brakhage 
Box 6 
Rollinsville, Colorado 
has the following films plus many more in 8 mm for sale 
“Song V’"'——childbirth film 7 min, $20 
“Song V1II""——sea creatures 4 min, $15 
“Window Water Baby Morning” ——childbirth film, $30 
First 2 from Brakhage’s home, last from Grove Press 
c/\6 Film Libr 
53 E. 11th St. NYC 1003, Also, his 
of interest but wet 
much $ are “Song XXIII: 23rd Psalm 
Branch” parts 1 and 2, both over a hundred $—— film of 
war. And "My Mountain Song 27” and “Rivers” ——“a 
study of Arapahoe Peak in ali the seasons of 2 years photo- 
graphy...the clouds and weather that shape its place in 
landscape.” Both 100$, 50 min, 
Films from: 
Bruce Conner 
c/o Canyon Cinema Coop 
756 Union St. 
S.F, 94133 
“Report.” Assassination” T.V. image 50’ $10 
“Cosmic Rays” |,2,3 50’ $10 
“Easter Morning Raga” 50’ 10$ 
“Antonio” 125’ $20 
Also films available from : 
New World Film Productions 
330 Grove St. 
S.F. 94102 
but haven’t seen any of them... 
Jack Seligion Nicolas 
~ 
San Juan 1450 Mexico 
12 D.F. M. 
has films from $10 to $50 that | also haven’t seen. Robert 
Giorgio c/o Canyon Coop has films all with tapetracks for 
up to $65. 
Michael Howden 
2922 Lyon St. 
S.F. 94123 
has 2 films for $15 James Douglas c/o Canyon sells 
“Speed Queen” 9m with tapetrack for $15——haven’t seen 
it either, Conner has one. 
Films without a doubt shall be included in catalog are the 
three birth films mentioned——are immensely helpful, 
grounding you at birth to that event —— getting rid of 
Mysterious Fear, Etc. 
Best of all -—— most of births 
seen is “WWBM” 
Some old films you can get. Lots many old newsreels, 
Melie’s films, S.F. earthquake newsreels, lot of early Edison 
and Biograph, most all Griffith, 5 Buster Keaton, best 
film comedies, 2 Eisenstein, Lang, Dupont, Mirnan, 10 
Betty Boop cartoons, Thos. Ince westerns, 11 films of 
Wiiliam S. Hart, 11 Douglas Fairbanks costume feature 
films, Rudolph Valentino’s 4 films, John Barrymore, 5 
films about all Chaplin, Laurel and Hardy, about 60 
films, Fatty Arbuckle, Ben Turpin, Langston, Swain, 
Pollard, Charlie Chase, Pearl White and Helen Holmes 
serials, lots of miscellaneous serial chapters and couple 
huncred miscellaneous horror-sci fi—mystery-—adventure 
etc. films 
Addresses of co’s selling old films above: 
Blackhawk Films/The Eastin—Phelan Corp, 
Davenport, lowa, 52808{ 
Entertainment Film Service 
850 7th Avenue 
NYC 19 
The Film Scene 
39 Boyleston 
Boston, Mass 02116 
Brigs——Moviedrome and Essex Film Club 
263 Harrison St. 
Nutley, N.J. 07110 
Imperial Enterprises, Inc. 
34 Park Row 
NYC 10038 
International Film Service 
Greenvale, Long Island 
11548 
Superior Bulk Film Co. 
442-450 N, Wells 
Chicago, tI] 60616 
Birth films should be listed necessarily! 
If you want 
coherent xeroxed list of everything —— tell me> 
Richard Johnston 
Estes Park, Colorado 
There’s a book, Houses 
of God_ That has a picture of a 
Jain temple city, seeing it made a permanent impression. 
It’s the most beautiful group of bldgs I’ve seen, Jains are 
vegetarian, take great care to preserve all living things. 
Our cities look very strange by comparison, 
Love, 
Lloyd Kahn 
~ Federal Government has leased or sold many such 
Jim Allen Reports 
Nice of The Zen Center to recommend The 
A.|. Root Company as an outlet for beekeep- 
ing supplies and information. They are a good 
eg 
company to deal with, and make very good 
stuff. The “ABC+XYZ” is one of the best 
beekeeping books available. 
Hives are available from Sears at $7.25 
each in lots of 5; or $9.75 individually. Root 
gets $15.45 for their hives, and the differences 
probably are not worthwhile, though the 
Root hive is a very deluxe job. 
While there is very little commercial 
beekeeping in Alameda County, there are 
several people who earn $250——$1000 a 
year on sales of honey, beeswax, and their 
services in removing swarms and. feral hives 
from houses. | have earned $50 since June 
removing bees from unwanted locations; not 
to mention the five hives of bees | acquired 
also. 
For beginners Sears Beginners Kit and bees is 
the cheapest way to get started. Beekeepers 
in this area have been extremely helpful to me 
in my first year of bees. It’s also a good 
way to get yourself or other people into 
ecology. 
Any interested beekeepers might write me 
for exchange of ideas or problems 
Sincerely, 
| 
Jim Allen 
1404 Spruce St. 
Berkeley, California 94709 
P.S. Has anyone turned you on to L.H. 
Bailey’s Encyclopedia 
of Horticulture 
in 3 vols. Out of sight! 
Gummint Land 
Dear Miss Shugart: 
Ma 4 
Your letter to the Division of Forestry has been referred to 
our office for reply. 
An erroneous impression exists that mining claims are a 
short cut to obtaining free land, a cabin site, or a site for a 
mountain residence, Such is not the case. Mining claims 
are established for mineral development, and any use of 
the surface for purposes unrelated to mining is unauthoriz- 
ed and therefore, in trespass. 
The lands in the public domain are under the administration 
(GJ 
and supervision of the U.S.Bureau of Land Management, 
an office 
of which is located at 2800 Cottage Way, Sacra- 
mento, 95825, Information on the disposition of public 
landcan be obtained from their office. 
We are enclosing a sheet outlining the nature of the Small 
Tract Act, which may prove helpful to you, 
Yours truly, 
Fenelon F. Davis 
Senior Geologist 
Division of Mines and Geology 
San Francisco 
Small Tract Act 
People who want to obtain small tracts of public 
land for recreation and residential purposes have 
an opportunity to do so under a law known as the 
Small Tract Act. This law authorizes the Govern- 
ment to sell or lease small tracts of vacant public 
land up to five acres for residential, recreation, or 
business purposes, This law does not apply to 
reserved lands, such as national parks, national 
forests and wildlife refuges. In recent years the 
tracts to people who want to “get away from it 
all.” 
The Small Tract Act was specifically designed to 
meet the needs of our Nation’s growing population 
and furnish them a means of acquiring desirable 
sites for summer homes and other purposes, 
But 
these lands are not available everywhere and are 
not free, Small tracts that are sold are generally 
sold through competitive bidding and cannot under 
any circumstances be sold at less than the appraised 
fair market value, Sometimes these lands are 
not expensive, but often they sell for many hun- 
dreds of dollars, In all cases, however, it is 
necessary for the Bureau of Land Management to 
classify the lands as best suited to that specific type 
of development. Many thousands of American 
citizens have acquired sites under the Small Tract Act. 
Additional information on this subject may be 
obtained from the Bureau of Land Management 
2800 Cottage Way 
Sacramento, California 
Bartlett Building 
215 West 7th Street 
Los Angeles, California 
2460 Athens Avenue 
Redding, California 
