© People have fouled the waters that all life drinks of:and they have fouled the 
air that all life partakes of. 
e People have transformed the face of the earth to enhance their notion of 
independence from it and in so doing have interrupted many 
natural 
processes that they are dependent upon. 
¢ People have contaminated the common household with substances 
that are foreign to the life processes which are causing many organisms 
great difficulties. 
e People have massacred and extincted fellow species for their feathers and 
fur, for their skins and tusks. 
e People have persecuted most persistantly those known as coyote, lion, wolf, 
and fox because of their dramatic role in the expression of interdependence, 
e People have warred upon one another which has brought great sorrow to 
themselves and vast destruction to the homes and the food supplies of 
many living things. 
e People have denied others the right to live to completion their 
interdependencies to the full extent of their capabilities. 
We therefore, among the mortal representatives of the eternal process of life and evolutionary 
principles, in mutual humbleness, explicitly stated, appealing to the ecological consciousness 
of the world for the rectitude of our intentions, do solemly publish and declare that all 
species are interdependent, that they are all free to realize these relationships to the full 
extent of their capabilities; that each species is subservient to the requirements of the 
natural processes that sustain all life. And for the support of this declaration with a firm 
reliance on all other members of our species who understand their consciousness as a 
capability, to assist all of us and our brothers to interact in order to realize a life process 
that manifests its maximum potential of diversity, vitality and planetary fertility to 
ensure the continuity of life on earth. 
On the Planet, Earth, 
August, 1969 
The Declaration of Interdependence, written by 
Thomas Jefferson and Cliff Humphrey and many 
delegates is available in poster form (17”x22”) 
for $1 from: 
Ecology Action 
P.O. Box 9334 
Berkeley, Calif. 94709 
The poster has lots of space at the bottom for 
signatures, paw prints, fly specks, snake slithers, 
clam spit, pollen... 
