Aladdin Lamps are more expensive 
The cheapest Aladdin table kerosene lamp (B-165) 
- has gone up from $16.97 to $22.95. 
The hanging lamp (B223) has gone up from $22.63 
to 28.95. 
Margot Burnham Suggests 
BYWAYS OF HANDWEAVING by Mary Meigs 
Atwater is a book of native weaving techniques of 
ancient Egypt and Peru, Guatemala, the South Pacific 
and various American Indian Tribes and others, 
Most of the techniques presented are non-loom or 
require extremely simple equipment so they can be 
adapted for children as well as craftsmen. Children 
being taught on traditional looms often lose interest 
because of the time the setting-up process takes, 
The illustrations in the book are beautiful, they show 
wonderful examples of native.craft. The instructions 
are quite clear and the book includes patterns of most 
of the illustrations. 
Most of the techniques are for 
belts and narrow bands but | have found that quite a 
few of them may be adapted for wider fabrics. Weav- 
ms 
ing one of the pieces as shown in the book certainly 
inspires wider fabrics in any case. 
The book is from the Macmillan Company, New York 
and the price is $7.95. 
The Haskell Institute in Lawrence, Kansas in 
conjunction with the Bureau of Indian Affairs puts out 
some very good low cost pamphlets on American Indian 
craft and lore. Blackfeet Crafts, lroquois Crafts, 
Navajo Native Dyes, Quill and Beadwork of the Western 
Sioux, and Spruce Root Basketry of the Alaska 
Tlingit are just a few. They also publish a series of 
books for Indian school children to teach them to read 
and write both in their own language and in English, 
These books are illustrated by Indian Artists. Teach 
your children an American language! Since many 
of the publications are printed at the Haskell Institute 
as part of a vocational training program they are 
apparently printed on a rotating system. When the 
particular pamphlet | ordered was at the time out of 
print they were very kind in telling me so and wrote 
‘that they would inform me when it is in print, and 
also sent me a list of the out-of-print books so | would 
be saved further frustration, The publications are 
sent prepaid. The address is 
Publications Service 
Haskell Institute 
Lawrence, Kansas 
66044 
| hope | have passed along some information that will 
be a help to the rest of our community. 
Margot Burnham 
Chico, California 
Kids and school books 
Dear Friends, 
In the July Supplement you published a letter from Lai Ching 
which concerned (among other things) children’s books. 
I'd like to recommend a few other children’s books some 
of which have relevance for those we call adults. Almost 
anything written or illustrated by Maurice Sandak turns out 
to be delightful——in particular, the Little Bear series by 
Else Holmelund Minarik (at about 7 or 8 kids find these 
too babyish), Where the Wild Things 
Are written by Sendak 
himself and, loveliest of all, 
The 
Animal 
Family by Randall 
Jarrell, The Animal Family is truly a gem 
but perhaps not 
too well understood 
by very young children. There is another 
Sendak book——Higgeldy Piggeldy Pop or there must be more 
to life—which is quite funny. Of course, Stuart Little and 
Charlotte’s Web by E. B. White are really Charming Classics. 
There is an excellent recording of Julie Harris reading Stuart 
Little put out by Pathways of Sound, Inc. This record keeps 
our family enrapt whenever played. You can probably get 
it through a local record shop. If not the company’s address 
is (or was) 102 Mt. Auburn St., Cambridge 38, Mass. They 
produce other fine children’s records and it might prove 
useful to ask for a catalog if they have one, Ano?':er 
winning “children’s” book is The Little Prince by Antoine 
de Saint—Exupery. 
1, too, would like some information on discounts for 
children’s books, While briefly in the school teaching bag 
last year, | found that a number of publishing companies 
are now producing paperbacks for elementary school use. 
People who live in the West can get a catalog from Scholastic 
at 5675 Sunol Bivd., Pleasanton, Calif. 94566, In the East 
it's 904 Sylvan Ave., Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey 07632. 
Dell Publishing Co., Inc. at Box 2291, Grand Central Post 
Office, N. Y., N. Y., 10017 seems to have more expensive 
(sometimes larger and higher quality) stuff. They, too, will 
send a catalog. | would also suggest looking in the yellow 
pages under ‘Magazines & Newspapers—Wholesale 
Distributors.’ | bought some paperback children’s books 
from a wholesaler on a retail basis by telling him | was a 
ie 
teacher (true,at the time). Also, the wholesaler gave me 
a useful catalog of paperbacks for schools put out by the 
Bureau of Independent Publishers & Distributors, 122 East 
42nd St., N. Y., N. Y. 10017, 
- 
Warm Regards, 
. 
Lilian J. Mohin 
Silver Spring, Md. 
P. S. Person to Person is the most helpful book I've ever 
read, 
Thankyou, 
Barry Stevens, 
Sculpture 
The World From Above 
The World From Above has gone up 
from $7.50 to $7.95. 
Dye 
you asked for comments on peace corps tech book list. 
dyeplants and dyeing:a handbook, brooklyn botanical 
gardens. 
have been using it for about a year. 
it is a good starter 
but | now do mordanting right in the dyepot. saves 
_ 
time, energy, and skin. no loss of color or fastness that | 
can see, suggest the dye-pot by mary frances davidson. 
can be obtained through the craft book service in big sur, 
california. anyone who wants to begin using the green 
things around him for dyeing NEEDS good wildflower 
id book. most of them dont give clear enough pictures. 
peterson and kenny is the best i’ve run across up to now. 
would appreciate suggestions. better than anythings is a 
local person who knows plants viscerally. 
a former city- 
child like me has to relearn a lot of past lives. 
better indigo source than dominion herb: 
c.f, bailey. 
st. aubyn I5 dutton street 
bankstown, n.s.w. 2200 
australia 
try last few 1968-9 issues of handweaver and craftsman, if 
not try a local craft society. we should try serious 
cultivation of indigo in southern u.s, 
if you're into dyeing fleece before spinning, card it once 
in the grease before washing. 
it will not mat so badly. 
nylon takes vegetable dyes beautifully. 
if you're in wash d.c., come say hello. i need the smell 
of other places. 
patience, humor, relaxation 
Bo Breda and friends 
3451 mt, pleasant street n.w. 
washington, d.c. 20010 
On page 55 of the Spring issue you ask if there is a better 
sculptor’s manual than the one you listed. 
| think there 
is one and I’m willing to give it the highest recommen- 
dation possible since it helped me considerably in entering 
the field. The title is METAL TECHNIQUES FOR THE 
CRAFTSMAN by Oppo Untracht, Doubleday and Co., 
Garden City, New York. 
It is somewhat expensive, 
listing for $19.95, but its 509 pages and uncounted 
illustrations as well as its clear style and really 
comprehensive treatment of the subject make it 
really worth the money. 
In case no one else has already told you about it and you 
would be interested in taking a look at a more thorough 
review, let me know and I'll send you one, 
You might also add to the review on the facing page that 
the Allcraft Tool and Supply Co, has a showroom in New 
York City, located at 22 West 48th Street. Practically 
everything listed in their catalog is available there and the 
staff is not only helpful but also knowledgeable and 
willing to help people solve their problems. 
How about a section in the Catalog where the best 
suppliers of raw materials are listed? Suppliers of such 
things as particular metals, good or rare woods, glass, 
leather, etc. that have been found to be well stocked, 
helpful and competent and often hard to find and 
information about the good ones should be shared 
among people who care, such as readers of the 
Catalog. 
Claudio Marzollo 
New York, New York 
Report From Gurney’s Organic Garden 
From The Free You Volume 3 September 1969 
Part Two: 
Reward 
From the outset I was determined 
to avoid re- 
lating to the garden abstractly, 
in terms of "po- 
etry," or “ideas,"" 
My usual tendency is to reduce 
my experience to metaphors, 
then render the meta- 
phors in words, and I wanted to beat that rap this 
time. 
Food, chewed up and swallowed, was what the 
garden was all about, and nothing less than that was 
going to satisfy, 
I wanted the experience 
to come 
alive outside my head, 
in the concrete world, and 
achieving that of course was the prime reward. 
But the thing I’m pleased to discover, now that 
the garden is a fact, is that I'm not as nervous as 
I was about abstractions, 
Abstractions built out of 
other abstractions can lead to actual sickness, I be- 
lieve. 
But abstraction derived from the concrete is 
like the other side of the coin, yin and yang. 
It 
feels good to talk about gardening, now that the 
work is done. 
Feels the best in a long time, 
in 
fact. 
Like dessert, after a good meal, 
It's amaz- 
ing what a little honest, sweat-producing work can 
do for a nervous head, 
So stuff has been occuring to me: 
talk, 
for 
instance. 
The difference 
in the quality of talk 
that grows out of true experience, against talk that 
grows only out of other talk. 
Talk among people who 
never do anything but talk, vs. words between people 
who have other things 
to do with themselves. 
Drawing 
room conversation dependent on other drawing rooms, 
against conversation among people who've just come 
in from the world. 
Political opinions based on other 
people's political opinions, against a politics grow- 
ing from the life you've personally lived. 
It's all 
like the difference between a wax apple, and one just 
dropped off a tree. 
And this: 
rules. 
How we've all gone around 
crazy the past few years 
in revolution against rules 
because they are rules; discovering some rules that 
are bad, deciding all rules must be bad, so what the 
world needs 
is anarchy. 
Head filled with such cheap 
crap, 
then coming up against something like a garden, 
entering into the work of it as 
if: 
this 
is my 
scene; I decide the processes 
of this garden because 
I'm a free man and I'm going to do my thing. 
So 
your thing is to spray water around. 
"Express" your, 
self in water, 
It's so,..esthetic. 
The curve of the 
spray is so...poetic. It's 
a veritable art form, no 
less, the avant-garde of agriculture. 
Jackson Pol- 
lock with a green thumb, 
Spray here, spray there, 
spray all over God's whole creation cause I'm going 
to do my thing. 
Well, do tell. 
Because what's happening, 
the 
reason all those beans and tomatoes and carrots are, 
like, drooping a little is that you've damned near 
drowned the things. 
And so you learn: 
the gardener 
doesn't make up the terms of his relationship to the 
garden. 
He doesn't invent them out of his precious 
head, change them around according 
to his petty whim. 
The terms exist before he gets there and they'll 
still exist long after he has gone. 
It's like the 
plants are saying: 
"Give us none of your hip eso- 
teric shit; we want water, and we want 
it in precise 
amounts, according to the varying root systems of 
each plant, 
We want fertilizer, and if you don't 
know how much, find out. 
Find out about nitrogen, 
about phosphorus, about potash. 
For if you expect 
anything from this garden, you must know what the 
garden expects of you. 
There's 
a reality among 
these rows, stuff is going on bigger than all of us, 
so dig it. 
You are only a part of what is happening 
here, 
Fit yourself into the scheme, 
Abide by the 
law, and maybe you'll be pleased that you did." 
Then this: 
pick up a radical newspaper, 
see a 
picture of the entrance to an Amy post. 
Fort Dix, 
probably, 
And above the gate and the M.P.'s helmets 
is a sign that reads: 
"Obedience to the law is free- 
dom." 
It's one of the philosophical highlights of 
the gardening season to read those words 
in politi- 
cal terms, and shudder; 
then read them again in terms 
of the natural world and think: 
how true, how true. 
Gurney Norman 
The Free You_ 
subscription rate is $3 for six months, or 
$5 per year, prepaid. Free for Free University Members. 
from: 
The Free You 
1061 El Camino Real 
Menlo Park, Ca. 94025 
Wood 
There is a great book on wood you might consider 
adding—— ‘What Wood Is This?” A Manual of 
Wood Indentification. By Herbert L. Edlin, Viking 
Press. 
Tony Marciante 
