Life Work 
By Jim Dodge 
A basic rule of human habitation has always 
been “Don’t shit in camp.” When the number of 
human inhabitants reached five billion, “camp” 
became the planet, the common ground of the 
global village and everyone’s backyard. This 
recognition that our species’ pollution and 
pillage in disparate locales now threatens, by 
cumulative insults, to foul the collective nest has 
been relatively sudden (the last thirty years of 
human occupation) and perhaps too late. But if 
necessity is the mother of invention, species- 
survival may prove downright inspirational. 
The notion of “right livelihood” — work that is 
individually satisfying and for the common 
good — is beginning to exert its simple wisdom 
on a wider scale. If we spend about a third of 
our lives sleeping and a third at work, a com- 
fortable bed and a fulfilling job are obvious 
provisions for getting a jump on happiness. A 
recent Columbia University study of people 
over 95 years old asked the elders what they’d 
change if they could re-live their lives. Among 
the three most frequent answers was “Create 
something that would last beyond death.” (The 
other two were “Take more risks” and “Stop 
and smell the roses.”) Restoration work not only 
offers right livelihood at a time when we seem 
sick-to-puking with meaningless labor for the 
poverty of dollars, it also, according to our 
elders, insures us against regret. Work is work, 
but it’s a pleasure to sing for one’s supper when 
the song itself provides sustenance. 
Restoration, like any art, seeks a greater under- 
standing of existence, which tends to deepen our 
appreciation, gratitude, and humility, salubrious 
e 
states of mind that are less 
fringe benefits than compelling 
requisites for further work. 
Moreover, the art of restoration 
is finely balanced between 
mind and body, thought and 
sweat. The work is heads-up 
and hands-on: figuring out by 
guess, gut, experience, and 
calculation how many trees to plant on the 
hillside, what species, when, and to what 
immediate and long-term consequence, then 
picking up your hoe-dad and doing it. Even 
better, it’s outside work, so you don’t have to 
make a special trip to smell the roses or feel the 
rain on your face. Compared to restoration, the 
other arts seem dangerously self-involved and 
boringly one-dimensional. 
from the 
Farming Game, review p. 44 
It’s my feeling, one that swings between convic- 
tion and wild hope, that we’re at a point in 
species’ consciousness where we’re about to 
grasp both the importance and rightness of 
helping the planet heal the injuries we’ve 
mindlessly inflicted. It’s tempting to think of 
restoration as a new genre of the healing arts, 
but in fact we have hardly begun to wash the 
wounds, much less address the psycho-social 
pathologies and self-destructive contempt that 
fuel the affliction. In caring for the earth, we 
may heal ourselves, but at present the art of 
restoration is more janitorial than medicinal. 
We’ve made a mess of creation, and now we 
need to clean it up. 
Doing 
What Needs to be Done 
“| felt then . 
. 
. that it could be that 
instead of trying to think about: How do | earn a 
living? ... how do | survive?.. 
. that we ought to 
be looking around and saying ‘what is it that my 
experience teaches me that needs to be attended 
to, which, if properly attended to, could bring 
advantage to all humanity, and which, if not 
attended to properly, could find humanity at great 
disadvantage?’ 
“If you have had anything in your experience say 
that to you insistently, you ought to do something 
about it. 
. 
. and pay no attention to the earning of a 
living.” —R. Buckminster Fuller 
j took Bucky’s advice when | was 18 and 
have not sought employment since. It’s been a 
good, if not affluent, life. Virtually all the people |! 
know who have elected to take this route have 
done OK — “Had good luck”, as some detractors 
sneer. Would | do it again if | 
were 18? Yes, only 
with more hubris and trust. Are there any tricks to 
the game? Yup: Do your homework, stay awake 
and be ready to pounce, be cool when you get the 
heebie-jeebies watching just about everyone else 
work hard for “security” while you snoop around 
the Universe on odd quests. —JB 
The National Parks 
Trade Journal 
a 
For those of you who missed the first two editions 
of this sassy publication, it’s a book with a maga- 
zine’s title and contents. Definitely not the official 
Washington viewpoint, the journal nevertheless 
offers reliable and detailed park-by-park informa- 
tion that'll help you choose and nab a job ina 
national park. That'd be reason enough to take the 
book home, but there’s more. Poetry, art, adven- 
ture stories, comments on outdoor equipment, and 
a great selection of advertisements for environ- 
mentally Right Stuff is mixed with articles on inter- 
national environmental organizations. This journal 
has become a kind of in-house magazine for park 
workers, but one they want to share with you, 
inviting you to join their way of life. If you're 
wondering what to do next, or you've considered 
maybe working in a park, start reading. Prepare to 
be seduced. —JB 
National Parks Underwater. These units of the 
National Park System contain more than 
2,250,000 acres of submerged land, an area equal 
to the size of Yellowstone National Park. Yet we 
know more about the most remote parts of Yellow- 
stone than we do about these underwater areas. 
There are 80 parks which lie on or near large 
bodies of water, including well-known parks like 
Channel Islands, Isle Royale, Virgin Islands, Cape 
Hatteras, Biscayne or Fort Jefferson. There are 
lesser known areas, too, including parks on rivers 
or smaller lakes. 
The National Parks Trade 
be 
Journal, Dave Anzalone, Editor /* 
1984, 1989; 345 pp.; $12.95 
($14.50 postpaid) from: 
National Parks Trade Journal 
Wawona Station, 
Yosemite National Park 
CA 95389; (209) 375-6552 
LIVELIHOOD 101 
The Complete Guide to 
Environmental Careers 
You may not end up Trumpishly rich as an envi- 
ronmental worker, but you surely will be riding the 
first wave of a huge new profession. | liken the 
potential to what alert early birds experienced in 
‘50s television; get in now and be a manager 
soon. As this very savvy book makes clear, the 
field is so new that it is still possible to define your 
own job. (If you feel better as a typical government 
slot-filler, there are those positions available too.) 
Of course, a new field is also harder to define, and 
it is likely that you will help define it. That will 
demand an unusual level of creativity and per- 
sonal responsibility — a sign of interesting work. 
This book delivers an intimate, detailed lowdown 
on how to seek, recognize and nail the job you 
want. It’s divided up into specific areas of interest: 
Planning, Education, Communications, Solid 
Waste Management, Hazardous Waste Manage- 
ment, Air Quality, Water Quality, Land and Water 
Conservation, Fishery and Wildlife Management, 
Parks and Recreation, and Forestry. Each chapter 
is a good look at the specialty, what is required, 
and how to break in. Internships are discussed in 
detail. It’s an insider's view. Tips abound. If your 
competition (and there’s plenty for the good jobs) 
reads this book and you don't, you'll get left behind 
to sell used cars. Note: The bookjacket empha- 
sizes young seekers, but the advice will work just 
fine for mid-life crisis course-changers 
and other agile veterans. —JB 
The Complete Guide to 
Environmental Careers 
The CEIP Fund; 1989 
328 pp.; $14.95 ($16.95 
postpaid) from: Island Press 
| 
Box 7, Covelo, CA 95428 
(800) 828-1302 WEA 
Internships: your first job. 
The first work experience of most environmental 
professionals is an internship, seasonal, or 
volunteer position. It is now almost a prerequisite 
for environmental employment, to demonstrate 
your abilities and, more important, show employ- 
ers that you are committed to the field. One 
employer pointedly asks, “If they haven’t been 
able to do some hands-on work in all their years of 
education, why would they even think | might pick 
them over the 95 percent who have one and 
usually several such experiences?” 
REESE 
ee 
as on ene ee ed 
In Business 
This magazine caters to the needs of small 
environmentally aware businesses. They’ve done 
a special issue (April 1990) featuring a very useful 
and inspiring Directory of Environmental Entrepre- 
neurs (180 of them). It's worth sending for as a 
back issue, or looking up in the library. —JB 
In Business 
(The Magazine for 
Environmental 
Entrepreneuring) 
Jerome Goldstein 
Editor; $21/year (six 
issues) from: 
In Business 
Box 323 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
(215) 967-4135 
See Also . 
. 
. Economics, pages 95-95. 
