14 BIG OUTSIDE 
fa 
The west coast of Borneo. 
The Home 
Planet 
Here are 150 awe- 
some color photo- 
graphs of Earth from 
space (most previ- 
ously unpublished) 
chosen from NASA 
and Soviet archives. 
The comments from 
the world’s astronauts 
and cosmonauts are 
translated into the 
nine languages in 
which this book has 
been simultaneously 
published. Editor 
Kevin W. Kelley (no 
relation to our own 
Whole Earth Review's 
Kevin Kelly) has done 
us a great service by seeing this difficult interna- 
tional enterprise through to such a beautiful result. 
Most readers come away with a new feeling of 
what it means to say “our Earth.” —JB 
The Home Planet 
Kevin W. Kelley; 1988; 
149 pp.; $8 (originally 
reviewed at $50; the 
publisher is closing out 
the stock) ($11.50 post- 
paid) from: Addison- 
Wesley, 1 Jacob Way 
Reading, MA 01867 
(800) 447-2226 #* WEA 
The Greenpeace Book 
of Antarctica (A new 
view of the seventh 
continent), John May 
1989; 192 pp.; $24.95 
($26.95 postpaid) from: 
Doubleday & Co., P.O. 
Box 5071, Des Plaines, 
IL 60017-5071 
(800) 223-6834 WEA 
The Greenpeace Book of 
Antarctica 
The “Whole Antarctica Catalog” from Greenpeace. 
It’s a wide-focus look at the Southern Continent — 
the land itself, its wildlife and the human impact of 
200 years of exploration. What's fascinating about 
Antarctica is that it has become a laboratory where 
studies improving our scientific understanding of 
how the planet works are taking place amid a 
political experiment in international cooperation. 
How the experiment works, if, indeed, it’s even 
possible, is of great significance in our changing 
world. With this volume, Greenpeace has made an 
important contribution to the process. 
—David Burnor 
Just passing through: A whalers’ oil tank, now 
disused, forms the backdrop to a group of tourists 
visiting Deception Island. Chile has recently been 
expanding its tourist activities, flying tourists into 
King George Island where a hotel, bank and 
supermarket are being built. 
The Big Outside 
This book does with words what a satellite does 
with photographs, it lets you see the land whole, 
without man-made boundaries and divisions. The 
subject is wilderness in the continental U.S. — 
how much is left, and where. The criteria are 
roadless areas of at least 100,000 acres in the 
West and 50,000 acres for the East, and 368 of 
them are described and listed by state. 
The last person to make this kind of inventory was 
the pioneering conservationist Bob Marshall in 
1936. Since then, everyone has only been looking 
at and arguing over the pieces — this is Forest 
Service land, that’s private, over there is BLM and 
back in those mountains is a Wilderness Area. 
Plenty of categories, lots of bureaucracies, but 
through the years an ever-shrinking pie. 
This book looks at all those pies whole, including 
private roadless lands. 
It is full of surprising loop- 
holes, each one contributing to the shrinking pie. 
The authors are two of the founders of the envi- 
ronmental group Earth First! (see p. 106), and they 
make it clear that what gets announced from 
Washington or shown on TV is usually not what 
actually is happening on the land. They argue that 
if all this dividing and identifying in the name of 
Conservation is going to amount to more than a 
roll-call of degraded and disappearing places, 
accompanied by the extinction of the rare species 
living on them, we need to get serious about truly 
protecting the few large wild areas that are left. 
Of course this is radical, it was back in 1936 too. 
But is it more than just an environmentalist pipe 
dream? Set aside for a moment all the politics and 
people and consider just the animals. The central 
unanswered question today among population 
biologists trying to maintain viable numbers of 
threatened species is: “How much land is 
The Big Outside, Dave 
Foreman and Howie Wolke 
i 
1989; 458 pp.; $19 ($21 post- 
paid) from: Ned Ludd Books 
P.O. Box 5141, Tucson, AZ 
85703; (602) 628-9610 WEA 
enough?” Increasingly, the answer comes back: 
“More than we thought.” Settling that score alone 
(assuming we really want to) may mean that the 
geographical prescriptions given in this book turn 
out to be more like blueprints, and less like 
fantasies. 
—Richard Nilsen 
[Suggested by Martha Weaver-Britell] 
The livestock industry has probably done more 
basic ecological damage to the Western United 
States than has any other single agent. . 
. 
. In non- 
timbered areas, most “developments” on public 
lands — roads, fences, juniper chainings, wind- 
mills, pipelines, stock tanks and the like — benefit 
only a few ranchers. 
Vast areas of the Great Basin and Southwest 
could be designated as Wilderness were it not for 
the livestock industry. Throughout the rural West, 
public lands ranchers are the most vocal and 
militant lobby against environmental protection or 
Wilderness designation. Sadly, designation of an 
area as Wilderness or National Wildlife Refuge 
does not restrict commercial livestock grazing. 
Even some National Parks are legally grazed. Of 
course, nearly all National Forest, BLM and state 
lands in the West are grazed by domestic live- 
stock. 
To make this situation more outrageous, all this is 
done to produce only 2% of the nation’s red meat; 
98% of US beef production is on private lands, 
mostly in the Eastern states. .. 
. Allin all, the 
Forest Service and BLM lose about $100 million a 
year with their grazing programs — and this does 
not count the costs of environmental degradation, 
which run into the hundreds of millions of dollars 
annually. The 22,000 ranchers with BLM or FS 
grazing leases are among the most accomplished 
welfare chiselers in the nation (perhaps only 
military contractors are more facile at living on the 
public dole). 
e 
McCormick 89,000 acres 
Designated McCormick Wilderness Area 
(Ottawa NF) 16,850 ac 
Escanaba River. State Forest roadless 8,320 ac 
Private roadless 64,000 ac 
Description: Upper Peninsula of Michigan east of 
L’Anse. The Sierra Club says, “McCormick is 
probably the best and largest living example of the 
original Michigan forest . 
. 
. Climax white pine and 
maple forests dominate the area 
. 
. 
. Disturbance 
in the area is minimal.” Rocky outcroppings tower 
over lakes, streams and wetlands frequented by 
Moose, Black Bear, Bobcat, River Otter, Common 
Loon, Bald Eagle, Pileated Woodpecker and 
possibly Gray Wolf. The cascading Yellow Dog 
River is among the most pristine streams in the 
Upper Midwest and has a thriving trout population. 
Status: The private lands and Escanaba State 
Forest are open to logging, but there is not much 
activity at this time. Protection of these roadless 
lands adjacent to the designated Wilderness, 
including acquisition of the private land, should be 
a high priority for conservationists. A dirt road is all 
that separates this area from the Huron Mountain 
roadless area. By closing it and several other old 
logging roads, a 200,000 acre Wilderness could 
be established. 
