= —O 
~O 
BG38 
56 ENERGY EFFICIENCY 
Resource Conservation 
Technology 
One of the most important things I’ve learned about 
energy efficient housebuilding is how important just 
plain old good building practices are. A foot of 
insulation in the walls won't keep the heat in if there 
are gaps around its edges, triple-glazed windows 
won't be worth the money you spent unless the 
appropriate weatherstripping is carefully installed, 
and if you insulate your water heater but forget the 
pipes downstream you're just wasting what you 
gained as you keep your crawl-space nice and 
warm. Equally as important as building practices, 
though, are building materials. 
But building materials are changing. Once you get 
past the basic stuff: nails, studs, and plates, even 
beyond drywall screws and hurricane ties and 
house-wrap, you run into a domain of synthetics 
and alloys and something called Ethylene Propyl- 
ene Diene Monomer. These are products originally 
developed for the new era of factory-built houses 
— especially those being made in efficiency- 
conscious northern Europe and Japan. 
Are materials engineered for the controlled condi- 
tions of the factory floor applicable out on your 
building site? Emphatically yes! The producers of 
these new materials have developed products for 
window and door sealing, for gap bridging at sills 
and rough openings, and liners and coatings and 
caulks enough to tempt me to start another house, 
just to get it right. Great! you say, but where can | 
get these things and how do | use them? Well, you 
get them right here — along with sun-control awn- 
ings and skylight blinds, ultra-low-flush toilets in 3(!) 
price ranges, drainage management products like 
nylon mesh matting and filter fabric, and pond 
lining, and custom-made, seamless EPDM rubber 
rooting (proven great for earth-sheltered houses). 
And they show you right in the catalog how to in- 
stall them. Quantities available range from home- 
owner-scale to contractor-size lots and although 
not directly comparable to poorer substitutes found 
in your local hardware store, you're likely to find 
better stuff, cheaper, here. —Don Ryan 
over a wide range of movement. 
around attic access doors. 
We stock three sizes: BG34 for gaps up to 3/8", BG36 for 
gaps up to 5/8", and BG38 for gaps up to 7/8”. Larger sizes 
are available on special order. 
"P" gaskets solve a variety 
of structural and non-structural 
sealing problems. All feature wide stapling flanges for easy 
installation in any weather, even when the lumber is wet 
or dirty. The hollow center assures effortless compression 
Applications include joints in log and heavy timber con- 
struction, joints between manufactured wall or roof panels 
such as stress-skin panels, and joints between sections of 
manufactured homes ("marriage walls”). Small P gaskets 
can also be used to make inexpensive yet reliable seals 
The Most Energy-Efficient 
Appliances 
The most energy-efficient appliances will certainly 
save resources, and reduce pollution, but you 
have to have the conscience of a saint to pay the 
dealer extra for that. (Ever notice how it always 
costs extra to save energy, money, or anything 
else?) Let’s face it, most folks will not fork out the 
extra bucks unless they can expect to save money 
too. 
This annually produced guide lists only the top 
handful of each type of appliance — why show the 
pigs? Performance figures are given, along with a 
brief explanation of what they mean. The booklet 
concludes with an easily-used chart that helps you 
calculate lifecycle costs (cost, plus the cost of 
running it for its expected lifespan, including a 
fudge factor for interest that you would have made 
on the money if you had bought a cheaper model). 
Lord love a duck, it turns out that an appliance 
with respectable performance and (relatively) low 
energy use often turns out to be cheaper in the 
long run despite its higher initial cost. The guide 
only covers the big gobblers: furnaces, fridges, air 
conditioners, and the like. If a big-ticket appliance 
purchase looms, this booklet and Consumer 
Reports (p. 65) is your homework. —JB 
The Most Energy-Efficient 
Appliances; 1989-90 Edition 
American Council for an 
Energy-Efficient Economy 
1988; 28 pp.; $3 postpaid 
= 
from: American Council for 
an Energy-Efficient Economy 
1001 Connecticut Ave, NW, 
Suite 535 
Washington, DC 20036 
isd) Sees 
| Agemeae 
foundation wall 
fabric 
gravel 
drain pipe 
Resource Conserva- 
tion Technonolgy, Inc.; 
Information free from: 
2633 North Calvert 
Street, Baltimore, MD 
21218; (301) 366-1146 
Using polypropy- 
lene liner protec- 
tion fabric as filter 
fabric to keep soil 
from clogging 
foundation drain. 
ICE 
The Interfaith Coalition on Energy has been helping 
to reduce energy costs in religious buildings for ten 
years now. Theirs is a tough assignment; most 
church leaders know very little about energy 
matters. Indeed, many seem to behave as if they 
accept gross inefficiency as God-given — perhaps 
as another trial to be borne. The good folks at ICE 
know better. With a God-helps-those-who-help- 
themselves attitude, they have labored to make 
church buildings more affordable to keep, freeing 
scarce funds for higher purposes. In addition to 
publishing the ICE Melter Newsletter, they conduct 
workshops, purvey technical advice, and admini- 
ster energy audits. It’s all marked with a commena- 
able honesty tempered by the naive mistakes of 
their early days. | am particularly impressed by 
their ability to say no to eco-popular ideas that 
make no economic sense — always a mark of 
professional expertise. ICE is Philadelphia-based, 
but their ideas will work fine elsewhere. Your 
church could probably benefit from their work. —JB 
Ceiling Fans 
It is commonly thought that warm air rises to the 
upper reaches of high ceilings in churches and 
synagogues. The installation of a ceiling fan is 
frequently viewed as an opportunity to reclaim lost 
heat by installing ceiling fans to blow the warm air 
downward. 
In fact, the air does not stratify as expected in 
buildings which are heated intermittently. 
Therefore, fans are not needed to redistribute and 
equalize air temperature. 
ICE Melter Newsletter 
Free (contributions 
welcome) 12 issues/year 
from: The Interfaith 
Coalition on Energy 
P.O. Box 26577 
Philadelphia, PA 19141 
(215) 635-1122 
Water Efficiency 
For Your Home 
Turns out the tiresome eco-naggers are right after 
all: every drop counts. It wouldn’t matter so much if 
there weren’t so many of us using the stuff. As it 
is, millions of water users can (and usually do) 
waste a LOT of water, mostly a little at a time. 
Building codes are set assuming an appalling level 
of waste. Municipal water-saving programs 
commonly specify 40 gallons per person per day! 
We can do better; to prove it can be done, | have 
lived well for years on 40 gallons a week, including 
a daily shower and one load of laundry. Remem- 
ber that water saving also saves pumping electric- 
ity somewhere, water heating fuel, sewage treat- 
ment, purification procedures, and the resource 
depletion, pollution, and money involved. This 
booklet tells what to do and how much it will help. 
You can get the associated hardware items, low- 
flow shower heads and the like, from most of the 
suppliers on pages 54-61. —JB 
Water Efficiency for 
Your Home, John C. 
Woodwell; 1989; 10 pp. 
$5 postpaid from: Rocky 
Mountain Institute, 1739 
Snowmass Creek Road 
Snowmass, CO 81654-9199 
lac Pao oe RET 
Water Efficiency 
Home Energy 
Home Energy attends to the efficiency of appli- 
ances (even waterbeds), home and apartment 
energy-use analysis, and a host of detailing that is 
hard to find anywhere else. These folks used to 
call themselves Energy Auditor and Retrofitter, 
and they still have plenty to say on that subject. A 
useful service for newcomers to the game as well 
as grizzled veterans wishing to keep up on the 
latest news. —JB 
Home Energy 
Alan Meier, Executive 
Editor; $45/year (six 
issues) from: 
Home Energy 
2124 Kittredge St., #95 
Berkeley, CA 94704 
(415) 524-5405 
Resource-Efficient 
Housing Guide 
When someone calls the Whole Earth office and 
asks could we steer them to a college that teaches 
solar architecture, we look it up in this exception- 
ally useful book. Need the address of your state’s 
Energy Office? It’s in here too. What about a book 
on weatherizing an older home? Choose from 
several, all with brief reviews (some by me). Water 
purity and conservation? Yup. House design for 
desert climates? Um-Hm. In fact, where to find just 
about anything you need or need to know about 
resource-efficient housing is in here, just as you'd 
hope. It’s where | look first. —JB 
Resource-Efficent 
Housing Guide, Robert 
Sardinsky; 1989; 127 pp. 
$15 postpaid from: 
Rocky Mountain Institute 
1739 Snowmass Creek 
Road, Snowmass, CO 
81654-9199 
(303) 927-3128 
T HOUSING GUIDE 
RESOURCEEERCTEN 
