Land-use and Land-cover, 
1972, Cleveland OH 
Latitude 
‘ 
re Se 
Lesingtle 
6: Sane 
RE 
N 32° 18° 
Access to USGS 
The U.S. Geological Survey produces and distrib- 
utes information on a wide variety of earth-science 
specialities such as geology, hydrology, cartogra- 
phy, geography, and remote sensing, as well as 
information on land use and energy, mineral, and 
water resources. 
| have found the Geological Survey to be a very 
user-friendly organization. In most cases your first 
contact will be able to answer all your questions. 
There are Public Inquiries Offices in the down- 
towns of major cities, designed for walk-in custom- 
ers but accessible by mail or phone. The USGS 
National Center in the D.C. area also has a PIO 
and can direct you to your local center as well as 
answer your questions. Check your own phone 
book under U.S. Government, Department of the 
Interior, for local offices. If you don’t know what to 
ask for, start by asking for these free publications: 
Catalog of maps — All the kinds of maps the 
Survey produces or distributes are described, 
illustrated, and accessed. This is in a poster 
format, very attractively designed and illustrated. If 
it is to be displayed on a bulletin board, get two 
copies so the back and front can both be seen. 
MAPS 11 
Catalog of Cartographic Data — Things you 
didn’t know you could get, like software for 
cartographic computer programs, advance prints 
of topographic maps in progess, land use (culture) 
and land cover (nature) maps for much of the 
U.S., access to the National High Altitude Photog- 
raphy Program — the USA from 40,000 feet. 
Guide to Obtaining USGS Information (Circular 
900). All the addresses and phone numbers you'll 
need to know. The various products are named 
but not described so you ought to have some idea 
of what you're looking for, derived from the above 
two publications. —Don Ryan 
Public Inquiries Office, U.S.G.S., 503 National 
Center, Room 1-C-402, 12201 Sunrise Valley 
Drive, Reston, VA 22092; (703) 648-6892 
Map Link 
Suppose you're setting off on a trip to the moun- 
tains of Mexico and want a map for the region 
you're going to. You know that there are 1:250,000 
scale topographic maps available, but you can’t 
find any locally. Just imagine how useful it would 
be to be able to pick up the phone and order the 
map you need with only the coordinates of the 
town you're visiting, no catalog number or other in- 
formation necessary. Such a service is offered by 
Maplink. They also have an impressive World Map 
Directory from all around the world, with short but 
detailed comments on each series that display a 
true love for the subject. They seem to carry the 
One Day 
Celestial Navigation 
What if you miss Hawaii? 
It’s just that sort of fear 
that drives folks to involve themselves with the 
traditional weighty volumes and complex work- 
sheets that make Hegel seem simple by compari- 
son. But you needn't fret. This skinny book gives 
you what you need to know to fetch Diamond 
Head, though you may have to do a bit of unpro- 
fessional dog-legging to do so. You'll be success- 
ful, which is more than you can be sure of using 
more complex techniques you don’t fully under- 
stand. The methods shown here are simple 
enough, but you will have to make that “one day” a 
disciplined one. Two people learning together will 
help, and that'll give you the advantage of having 
more than one person aboard with navigation 
skills — a useful safety factor. The author also 
takes you through the steps for checking the 
accuracy of the ship’s compass, and what to do if 
your clock stops. If you’re going out of sight of 
land, all this is stuff you need to know. This book is 
about as simple a course as you're likely to find. 
—JB 
One Day Celestial Navigation 
(For Offshore Sailing), Otis S. 
Brown; 1984; 133 pp.; $9.95 
($11.95 postpaid) from: Liberty 
jd 
Publishing, 440 South Federal 
me 
Hwy, Suite 202, Deerfield Beach 
FL 33441; (305) 360-9000 * WEA 
‘One Day 
{celestial 
} 
[Navigation 
j 
* Strategy: If you can only obtain an accurate latitude, you must modify 
the approach to your island. You sail down 
(or up) to the latitude of the island. You in- 
tentionally miss it to the west (or east) by 
sixty miles. This is a dog leg, or “landfall” 
x 
technique. Upon arrival at the island’s 
x 
latitude you will know in which direction to 
turn to arrive at the island. You will not know 
exactly how far you are from the island, but 
you will be certain to hit the island. 
¥ 
Chesapeake Bay 
\ 
ss 
Atlantic Ocean 
“Intentional Miss” 
This assures you that Bermuda 
will be to the east of you. 
6840 YUGOSLAVIA: GENERAL 
Freytag Berndt's double sided map of Yugoslavia provides an amazing amount of road and village 
information. Included with the map are insets of the entire coast of Yugoslavia at 1:275,000. No 
other map compares! 
Yugoslavia 
991, Yugoslavia 
largest scale and most informative available for 
both towns and regions. The mail-order service 
was excellent. —Jonathan Evelegh 
The World Map Directory; Aaron Maizlish and 
William S. Hunt; 1990; 278 pp.; $29.95 postpaid 
from: Maplink, 529 State Street, Santa Barbara, 
CA 93101; (805) 965-4402 
Celestaire 
Navigation is still one of the 
basic skills of the true 
wanderer. There is disci- 
pline involved, and pen- 
alties for lack of it. There 
are instruments that must 
be mastered. Here’s a 
selection of the instruments 36... arm 
(traditional and electronic) 
israde'Giesses for Index Mirror 
and associated instruction. 
Ustad lstes for Hoon Gest 
There's a kind of imma- 
OlLight Bresker (Protector for Leaking Light) 
nence to it all that you may 
find, as | do, strangely thrilling. —JB 
L 
B 
N GHE 
SEXTANT COMPONENTS 
A)Frame 
E)Tangent Screw 
F)Release 
G)Micrometer Drum 
H) Vernier 
Celestaire (Marine and Air Navigation 
Instruments); Catalog free from: Celestaire 
416 S. Pershing, Wichita, KS 67218 
(800) 727-9785; in KS (316) 686-9785 
The NC-77 is a permanently pre-programmed celestial naviga- 
tion calculator. An easy to understand dialog system provided by 
the digital display tells you what to do step by step. This allows 
the infrequent navigator to begin using it without reviewing 
procedures. Values of latitude and longtidude may be entered 
directly in degrees and minutes without the need for decimaliza- 
tion. Its basic navigation functions include: 
e Sight Reduction 
eAlmanacforsun 
_ 
and stars (until:1999) 
e@ Fix Computation 
e Dead Reckoning 
e Star Identification 
© Refraction 
In addition to a full range of scientific function keys, it has two 
user-accessible memories that can be used with a number of 
navigation programs. It is powered by four type-A batteries. An 
optional Nicad pack, DC adapter/charger (12-volt), and an AD 
adapter/charger is available. The calculator comes in a hand- 
some felt-lined wooden case with comprehensive instruction 
manual. 
NC-77 CALCULATOR 
NC-77 #3001 
$324 
FB YUG 
M 991 
$7.95 
600K 
1985 
$4.95 
1M 
nd 
DST 
en 
ae Stare chm eee 
Compasses 
A good source for compasses is REI (Quality 
Outdoor Gear and Clothing). Catalog free from: 
REI, P.O. Box 88125, Seattle, WA 98138-2125, 
(800) 426-4840. 
Land Navigation 
We’ve run reviews of many “Where are we?” 
books over the years, but this one is easily the 
most clear and easy to use. Absolutely everything 
is explained in a way that does not subtly assume 
that you have a degree (so to speak) in advanced 
trigonometry. All those little symbols you see on 
maps are discussed, and after 25 years of trail 
experience | finally found out what those yellow 
square markers you see along trails are for. He 
even gets into navigation with an altimeter! And 
there’s a good chapter on finding your way by the 
stars — even in the Southern Hemisphere in case 
you end up in New Zealand. All this stuff is 
presented in a commendably relaxed way that 
makes it easy to remember without the book. A 
sample topo map is included so you can try things 
in the safety of your own home. It'll be a long time 
before someone does this subject better. —JB 
Land Navigation Handbook 
(The Sierra Club Guide to Map 
and Compass); W.S. Kals; 1983; 
230 pp.; $9.95 ($12.95 postpaid) 
from: Sierra Club Books, 730 
Polk Street, San Francisco, CA 
94109; (415) 923-5500 4 WEA 
Draw lines from the peak that just miss the edges 
of the swamp. Then 
measure with your 
compass the bearings 
along these lines toward 
the peak. Say you get 
60° and 110°. 
You can approach the 
peak from any direction 
and be certain to avoid 
the swamp as long as the peak bears less than 
60° or more than 110° from you. You can see from 
this drawing that you’d pass North of the swamp 
when the bearing is more than 110°. 
