What Are People For? 
Wendell Berry takes us backstage in our own 
theater in order to show us the basis for, and 
consequences of, our illusions and actions. 
Because he’s not afraid to include himself in the 
discussion, there is a feeling of essential truth in 
what he says; arguable but undeniable. Reading 
his stuff sometimes makes me feel like I’ve walked 
smack into a very clean glass door, stopped cold 
by something very real but difficult to see unless 
you pay very close attention. (There’s a whole 
chapter from this book on page 89.) —JB 
What Are People For? 
Wendell Berry; 1990 
210 pp.; $9.95 ($11.45 
postpaid) from: North Point 
Press, 850 Talbot Avenue 
Berkeley, CA 94706 
(415) 527-6260 **WEA 
* WHAT ARE 
© 
people FOR? 
e 
Emerson writes: 
| grasp the hands of those next me, and take 
my place in the ring to suffer and to work, 
taught by an instinct, that so shall the dumb 
abyss be vocal with speech. 
Emerson's spiritual heroism can sometimes be 
questionable or tiresome, but he can also write 
splendidly accurate, exacting sentences, and that 
is one of them. We see how it legislates against 
what we now call “groupiness.” Neighborhood is a 
given condition, not a contrived one; he is not 
talking about a “planned community” or a “net- 
work,” but about the necessary interdependence 
of those who are “next” each other. We see how it 
invokes dance, acting in concert, as a metaphor of 
almost limitless reference. We see how the phrase 
“to suffer and to work” refuses sentimentalization. 
We see how common work, common suffering, 
and a common willingness to join and belong are 
understood as the conditions that make speech 
possible in “the dumb abyss” in which we are 
divided. 
This leads us, probably, to as good a definition of 
the beloved community as we can hope for: 
common experience and common effort on a 
common ground to which one willingly belongs. 
e@ 
Like any other public institution so organized, the 
organized church is dependent on “the economy”; 
it cannot survive apart from those economic 
practices that its truth forbids and that its vocation 
is to correct. If it comes to a choice between the 
extermination of the fowls of the air and the lilies of 
the field and the extermination of a building fund, 
the organized church will elect — indeed, has 
already elected — to save the building fund. The 
irony is compounded and made harder to bear by 
the fact that the building fund can be preserved by 
crude applications of money, but the fowls of the 
air and the lilies of the field can be preserved only 
by true religion, by the practice of a proper love 
and respect for them as the creatures of God. No 
wonder so many sermons are devoted exclusively 
to “spiritual” subjects. If one is living by the tithes 
of history’s most destructive economy, then the 
disembodiment of the soul becomes the chief of 
worldly conveniences. 
Ecotopia 
Fifteen years have passed since Ernest Callen- 
bach wrote this lively examination of the world-we- 
could-have. Northern California, Oregon and 
Washington have seceded from the USA and 
become a country called Ecotopia. Their technol- 
ogy is environmentally benign; society and nature 
are in balance, to the betterment of both. The story 
makes Ecotopian life believable and so desirable 
— and to some, infuriating — that the very word 
ecotopia has become a part of our language. If 
anything, fifteen years have added to the seduc- 
tive charm of the Ecotopian ideal. Only the sex 
seems dated today — there was no AIDS at the 
time it was written. Sigh. —JB 
Ecotopia, Ernest Callenbach 
1975, 1990; 181 pp.; $8.95 
($10.95 postpaid)from: Bantam 
Books, Inc.,414 E. Golf Rd., 
Des Plaines,|IL 60016 
(800) 223-6834 WEA 
A version of Ecotopia is 
available on tape. Ecotopia: 
An Audio Novel, $15.95 ($17.05 postpaid) from: 
St. Martin’s Press, 175 5th Ave., New York, NY 
10010; (800) 221-7945 
“Probably our greatest economies were obtained 
simply by stopping production of many processed 
and packaged foods. These had either been 
outlawed on health grounds or put on Bad 
Practice lists.” 
This sounded like a loophole that might house a 
large and rather totalitarian rat. “What are these 
lists and how are they enforced?” | asked. 
“Actually, they aren’t enforced at all. They're a 
mechanism of moral persuasion, you might say. 
But they’re purely informal. They’re issued by 
study groups from consumer co-ops. Usually, 
when a product goes onto such a list, demand for 
it drops sharply. The company making it then 
ordinarily has to stop production, or finds it 
possible to sell only in specialized stores.” 
“But surely these committees are not allowed to 
act simply on their own say-so, without scientific 
backing or government authorization?” 
The Assistant Minister smiled rather wanly. “In 
Ecotopia,” he said, “you will find many many things 
happening without government authorization.” 
e@ 
After some drinks the conversation got livelier and 
more personal. Thought I'd do some probing. 
“Doesn't this stable-state business get awfully 
static? I'd think it would drive you crazy after a 
certain point!” 
Bert looked at me with amusement, and batted the 
ball back. “Well, don’t forget that we don’t have to 
be stable. The system provides the stability, and 
we can be erratic within it.” 
e 
Ecotopians treat as severe breaches of the peace 
many actions we consider white-collar crimes 
seldom deserving of police or court action. Deliber- 
ate pollution of water or air is punished by severe 
jail sentences. “Victimless” crimes such as prosti- 
tution, gambling, and drug use are no longer on 
the books, but embezzlement, fraud, collusion, 
and similar “gentleman’s crimes” are dealt with just 
as severely as crimes like assault and robbery — 
which are, by the way, rare in Ecotopia, perhaps 
because of the personal nature of their neighbor- 
hoods and the virtual impossibility of anonymity in 
them. (Strangers get a lot of attention in Ecotopia, 
but the motives for this may not be entirely friendli- 
ness.) Ecotopian courts mete out fines very sel- 
dom, it appears, preferring to rely on imprison- 
ment, which is felt to affect convicted persons 
more equally. | hope to visit an Ecotopian prison 
soon; | am told that all prisons require the inmates 
to work, and rumors have circulated that some 
verge on slave-labor camps. 
TECHNOLOGY 97 
RES 
Se 
ee 
Notes on the Underground 
Rosalind Williams gets rolling fast with a wide 
open question: “What are the consequences when 
human beings dwell in an environment that is 
predominantly built rather than given?” An uncom- 
monly astute and provocative array of answers are 
examined through the metaphor of living under- 
ground, literally and in literature. Frankly, when | 
started reading, | expected some sort of dry 
exercise in effete literary criticism — an impression 
reinforced by the mass of footnotes at the back of 
the book. Instead, | found a spellbinder. | started 
dog-earing pages for future reference, but soon 
the whole damned book was dog-eared, the 
margins filled with scribbled notes. | found my own 
technical experience and ideas clarified by a new 
perspective; sometimes strengthened, and 
occasionally definitively shot down. Ms. Williams 
has given us the rare vantage point that permits 
self-examination at a critical time. —JB 
Notes on the Underground 
(An Essay gn Technology, 
Society and the Imagination) 
Rosalind Williams; 1990; 265 pp. 
$24.95 ($27.45 postpaid) from: 
The MIT Press, 55 Hayward St. 
Cambridge, MA 02142 
(617) 253-2884 WEA 
What is unique about the natural environment, 
what can never be replaced by the technological 
one, Is its independence of the social order. 
From this viewpoint, the concept of environmental 
politics takes on new meaning. The very existence 
of nature, its sheer being, challenges the life- 
denying, past-denying values of a machine- 
oriented collectivity. Because nature itself escapes 
from social determinism, it offers a reference point 
so human beings too can escape from social 
determinism. E. M. Forster writes in a pastoral 
tradition that “asserts or implies a continuity 
between the human spirit and the natural universe 
that is distinct from social definitions or placements 
of character.” Were nature hidden or destroyed, 
people would have no independent source of 
value by which to judge the dominant order. To 
appeal to the physical world is to appeal to a moral 
and political counterforce. 
In that case, the real danger to the environment is 
not desacralization but destruction. To Forster, 
nature cannot be desacralized. That is precisely 
why the Committee of the Machine wants it 
destroyed — to get rid of an opposing source of 
authority. Pollution, then, is to be taken seriously 
in its ritual meaning as desecration. The disap- 
pearance of the untainted, the untouched, is not 
just an example of lamentable but correctable 
mismanagement. The destruction of nature is also 
an expression of powerful, possibly ineradicable 
aggressive impulses. “If man must conquer nature 
in order to survive,” Daniel Callahan writes, “he 
also wants to conquer nature as an expression of 
his omnipotence. 
. 
. .” Natural despoilation is not 
just a result of economic pressures; it is also a 
political action aimed at removing a source of 
subversion. 
e 
We have always lived below the surface, beneath 
the atmospheric ocean, in a closed, sealed, finite 
environment, where everything is recycled and 
everything is limited. Until now, we have not felt 
like underground dwellers because the natural 
system of the globe has seemed so large in 
comparison with any systems we might construct. 
That is changing. What is commonly called 
environmental consciousness could be described 
as subterranean consciousness — awareness that 
we are in a very real sense not on the earth but 
inside it. 
