Sharing Nature with 
Children 
Smelling, feeling, listening, watching, guessing — 
imagining yourself to be a part of nature. Taking 
joy in it. That's what this extraordinary book is 
about. It’s a far cry from the obedient line of kids 
marching along to the chirping of a bored teacher 
on a “nature walk.” This is absolutely the best 
awareness-of-nature book I’ve ever seen. It works 
for adults, too. —JB 
The 40 activities in this book are easy to use — for 
family or class outings. Kids actually like them. 
Sharing Nature with Children was the most 
helpful book | found when doing research for a 
bioregional curriculum guide — Joseph Cornell 
knows how to talk about nature to kids without 
talking down to them. —Jeanne Carstensen 
Sharing Nature With Children 
Joseph Bharat Cornell; 1979 
142 pp.; $6.95 (postpaid if pay- 
ment accompanies order) from: 
Dawn Publications, 14618 Tyler 
Foote Road, Nevada City, CA 
95959; (800) 545-7475 WEA 
There is a bird call that you can easily do with no 
more equipment than your own mouth. It attracts 
many of the smaller species: sparrows, warblers, 
jays, vireos, chickadees, nuthatches, humming- 
birds, flycatchers, bushtits, orioles, kinglets, wrens, 
and others. In the following section on predator 
calls, you will learn to attract some of the larger 
birds. 
The call consists of a series of rhythmically- 
repeated “pssh” sounds. Different rhythms work 
with different birds. Here are a couple of simple 
rhythms you can start with: 
pssii=ore DsShipeee DSSileeeee 
pssh...pssh...pssh-pssh...pssh...pssh 
Each of these series should last about three 
seconds. Experiment to find the rhythms that work 
best for the birds in your area. 
RE 
ee Pe es 
Hug a Tree 
A workbook of more than fifty 
outdoor learning experiences for 
children in groups and individu- 
ally. Especially good are the 
suggestions for aiding kids in 
Tones 
recording the experiences in 
— 
their own terms and for follow- 
—tnans 
ing up over time on the original _ plasuc 
activities. —Keith Jordan 
Hug a Tree 
Robert E. Rockwell, 
Elizabeth A. Sherwood, 
and Robert A. Williams 
1983; 106 pp.; $9.95 
($11.45 postpaid) from 
Gryphon House, Inc. 
3706 Otis Street 
Mount Rainier, MD 20712 
(800) 638-0928 
*WEA 
We often hear that litter isn't biodegradable. Does this mean anything to a young 
child? Probably not. To an adult, it means that most litter does not break down 
biologically. What the child needs to know is that litter doesn’t rot or decay very 
easily; it just stays where we leave it. In this activity the children discover what 
happens to cast-offs from people and from nature. 
Sharing the Joy of Nature 
Author Joseph Cornell's first book, Sharing 
Nature with Children, has become justly famous 
because it works; both kids and teachers have 
been happy to transcend the usual stultifying 
“nature walk.” Now Mr. Cornell has added the 
depth and detail necessary to. enthrall adults (the 
kids can come too, of course). The teaching 
method is a logical sequence he calls “flow learn- 
ing”: Awaken enthusiasm, Focus attention, Direct 
experience, Share inspiration. As both a giver and 
receiver of nature expeditions, | can vouch that it’s 
an effective and up-beat way to get at things 
without being sappy. —JB 
Sharing the Joy of Nature 
Joseph Cornell; 1989; 167 pp. 
$9.95 (postpaid if payment 
accompanies order) from: 
Dawn Publications 
14618 Tyler Foote Road 
Nevada City, CA 95959 
(800) 545-7475 WEA 
Camera is one of the most powerful and enjoyable 
activities in this book. In a simple and natural way, 
it quiets distracting thoughts and restlessness and 
frees the attention for absorbing nature with unob- 
structed clarity. 
One player takes the role of photographer, and the 
other plays the camera. The photographer guides 
the camera, who keeps his eyes closed, on a 
search for beautiful and interesting pictures. When 
the photographer sees something he likes, he 
points the camera’s lens (eyes) at it, framing the 
object he wants to “shoot.” Then he presses the 
shutter button to open the lens... 
. 
Encourage the photographers to be creative in 
choosing and framing pictures. Tell them, “You 
can make stunning photographs by taking shots 
from unusual angles and perspectives. For 
example, you can both lie down under a tree and 
take your picture looking upward, or you can put 
your camera very close to a tree’s bark or leaves. 
BURY 
THE SOCK 
What To Do 
Want To Do More? 
1. Take a nylon sock and collect both natural 
Keep the sock in the ground for one year. 
materials and litter that you find in the yard. Try 
Repeat the procedure outlined and discuss 
to get at least one cach of the items listed in 
changes. 
“Things You Can Use.” 
2. Make a record of your collecting by sketching 
the sock and its content. 
3. Bury the sock so that it is completely covered 
by dirt. 
4. Dig up the sock in a few months... 
5. Compare what has happened to the organic 
materials with what has happened to the glass, 
plastic 
and metal. Talk about it. You can even 
moralize a 
little if you like. The idea that trash 
dropped on the ground doesn’t just disappear is 
important—even for young children. Attitudes 
toward the world form easily. They ought to be 
good ones! 
89 WATCHING TIME AND SEASONS 
LEARNING 117 
Try looking down into a flower, or panning the 
horizon. Be open to the opportunities of the 
moment.” ... 
Because the Camera Game uses nature experi- 
ences instead of verbal explanations, very young 
children can participate just as fully as adults. It’s 
very touching to watch five-year-olds guide their 
parents or grandparents, taking pictures and 
sharing their delight in natural things. 
Manure, Meadows and 
Milkshakes 
This ts a book full of wonderful games and activi- 
ties that are every bit as creative as its title. The 
lessons effectively teach children the principles of 
ecology through hands-on exercises. One fifth- 
grader who participated in Manure, Meadows and 
Milkshakes activities said, “You have to learn 
about nature in person. You have to taste it, feel it, 
see it and hear it.” —Don Waxman 
Manure, Meadows 
and Milkshakes 
Eric Jorgensen, Trout 
Black, and Mary Hallesy; 
1986; 132 pp.; $9.95 
($11.45 postpaid) from: 
The Trust for Hidden Villa 
1S 
26870 Moody Road 
| 
aia 
Los Altos Hills, CA 94022 
(415) 941-6119 WEA 
eos and rece tom OMEN: 
| 
Cinquains are a wonderful way to combine 
feelings and facts about our world into a poetic 
image. Easy to learn; easy to do! Here’s how: 
First line: one word, giving title 
Second line: two words, describing title 
Third line: three words, expressing an action 
Fourth line: four words, expressing a feeling 
Fifth line: one word, a synonym for the title 
e 
Ranger Game: Play this on a narrow trail when 
your children are pushing and shoving to be first. 
Number everyone off and start up the trail. No 
“cuts.” Place yourself third in line. (You can talk to 
the two ahead and also keep track of the gang 
behind.) The first child is the ranger. When you or 
the children spot something of interest have your 
ranger stand by it and point it out to everyone as 
they walk by. “Ranger Dan or Ann” then becomes 
the caboose at the end of the line. Make sure 
everyone has a chance to be a ranger. 
