Motor-Vehicle Fuel 
Efficiency and Global 
Warming 
This free six-pager is a ten-minute course in car- 
feeding and the consequences thereof. The 
numbers are all here. You see what we’ve been 
doing and the effects of government policy. 
There’s a wondertully clear chart showing what the 
choices are for fuel of the future, and what they 
mean economically and environmentally. The act 
concludes with a list of suggested initiatives. With 
references, so you can use the info as credible 
ammunition. —JB 
Residential/ 
Commercial 
Industrial 
25% 
Your Driving Costs 
Being true to thyself about car costs is about as 
appealing as your annual physical checkup: you 
don’t really wanna know. This little pamphlet from 
the American Automobile Association — the 
ubiquitous AAA — is derived from studies by an 
outfit named Runzheimer International, a firm that 
analyzes living costs for purposes of reimburse- 
ment (you should be so lucky). The cold, hard 
numbers may be the best incentive to drive less. 
Read it and weep. —JB 
Your Driving Costs; Pamphlet free, send 
SASE to: American Automobile Association 
1000 AAA Drive, Heathrow, FL 32746 
(407) 444-7000 
Five Ways to Curb Traffic 
Here’s how six cities around the world are discour- 
aging traffic in already congested areas: 
Hong Kong 
Electronic sensors on cars record highway travel 
and time of day. Drivers are issued a monthly bill 
(commuter hours are the most expensive). 
Singapore 
Automobiles entering downtown Singapore during 
rush hour are required to display a $30-a-month 
sticker, but cars carrying four or more passengers 
may pass without charge. 
Gothenburg, Sweden 
To encourage pedestrian traffic, the central 
business district has been divided into pie-shaped 
zones, with cars prohibited from moving directly 
from one zone to another. Autos move in and out 
only by way of a peripheral ring road. 
Rome and Florence 
All traffic except buses, taxis, delivery vehicles, 
and cars belonging to residents has been banned 
between 7:30 A.M. and 7:30 P.M. 
Tokyo 
The buyer of a standard-size vehicle must show 
evidence that a permanent parking space is 
available for the car before he can close the sale. 
To comply with the law, some drivers have 
constructed home garages with lifts to permit 
double-deck parking! 
(Source: Sierra magazine, May/June 1989) 
‘electric car is nuclear-powered, 
Briefing Paper: Motor- 
Vehicle Fuel Efficiency 
and Global Warming 
Union of Concerned 
Scientists; free from: 
UCS Publications, 
ae 
Dept. BP, 26 Church St. 
iss 
Cambridge, MA 02238 
= 
(617) 547-5552 
—— 
Note that only 4% of petroleum is used by electric 
utilities. This is why pro-nuke ads claiming to 
reduce oil imports and consumption are 
misleading. —JB 
Other transpod 
41% 
Electric Cars 
On paper, electric vehicles are the best solution to 
urban auto-caused air pollution and noise. Unfor- 
tunately, there is a spider in the bathtub: electric 
cars must recharge, probably daily. Though utility 
companies claim that they can handle substantial 
numbers of electric vehicles with existing generat- 
ing capacity, strong new demand would inevitably 
encourage the nuclear power industry. It is 
realistic to regard an electric vehicle as actually 
being fuelled by whatever fuel is 
consumed in the nearest generating 
facility. It is correct to say that an 
coal-powered, or even dam- 
powered, using the same logic as 
when referring to a car as diesel- or 
gasoline-powered. Electric car 
advocates don’t care for this 
nomenclature, but its use tends to 
keep things clear. 
Some people have suggested that 
electric vehicles could recharge from photovoltaic 
panels. Mounting the panels on the car has proven 
useful only for tiny, highly specialized solar race 
cars. Recharging from a photovoltaic array where 
the car parks for extended periods is the practical 
way things will go someday. (Such things can be 
done; | once rigged a small electric truck to re- 
charged from a windmill turning in the evening 
breeze.) Since cars eventually must run on 
renewable energy, and “racing improves the 
breed,” impractical solar electric featherweights 
may be considered as an interesting, important 
gesture towards the future. 
General Motors has done the best so far, with a 
useful city car (alarmingly dubbed “Impact”) 
featuring brisk performance and a 120 mile range 
— more than acceptable to most urban drivers. As 
with all battery-driven vehicles, its range is notice- 
ably reduced by extensive need to ascend hills or 
accelerate strongly, and by using the heating, air 
conditioning, and headlights a lot. Batteries must 
be replaced every few years for about the same 
price as a new engine in a conventional car. So 
we are not yet talking practicality for the average 
user, and this is what it’s going to take if electrics 
are to make a difference. On the other hand, GM 
has been surprised by a strong public demand for 
the car even at the high price proposed. 
Battery technology remains the big barrier. At 
AUTOMOBILES 71 
present, they are expensive, bulky and very 
heavy. Most employ toxic substances. There are 
lightweight, small batteries, but they are even 
more expensive and potentially polluting. It has 
been suggested that electric cars are at their best 
as hybrids with a small, on-board fossil-fueled 
generator to recharge the batteries while parked or 
even while driving. It is correctly argued that a 
small liquid-fueled engine running at a constant 
speed can be made very efficient and relatively 
clean. The generator could also be used to power 
lights and air conditioner, its waste heat warming 
the interior in winter. It could help up steep hills. 
Such cars are under development 
So it looks like a truly useful and affordable electric 
car is still a few years down the road. Its day will 
come, though, the advantages for urban use are 
just too good to pass up. To keep abreast of 
developments, check Electric Auto Association 
[$25/year membership (includes monthly newslet- 
ter) from: EAA, 1249 Lane Street, Belmont, CA 
94002; (415) 591-6698]. If you’d like to take a 
crack at being the first to do it right, Michael 
Hackleman’s Electric Vehicles: Design and 
Build Your Own, [Michael Hackleman,1977; 214 
pages, $9.95 postpaid from: EARTHMIND, P.O. 
Box 743, Mariposa, CA 95338] will teach you the 
basics of electric car experimenting. —JB 
GM has brought practical electric cars much 
closer with their high-performance Impact 2- 
seater sport coupe. It’s about the size and weight 
of a Honda Civic but priced with sportscars of 
similar acceleration ($20-30,000). Range at 55 mph 
is 120 miles under average conditions — far better 
than rival electric cars, and certainly adequate for 
most urban and commuting use. Satisfying to 
drive, it banishes the sluggy golf-cart image often 
associated with electrics. It also helps GM deflect 
criticism of its deservedly bad reputation in 
environmental matters. —JB 
The Car Buyer’s Art 
This doesn’t have much to do with ecology but it’s 
dumb to get took when you buy 
a car. Read this and you wont. 
—JB 
The Car Buyer’s Art 
Darrell Parrish; 1985; 183 pp. 
$5 postpaid from: Book Express 
P.O. Box 1249, Bellflower, CA 
90706; (213) 867-3723 **WEA 
Turnover in the car selling profession is high. 
Because of this, a young salesman is very likely to 
be a new salesman, which is exactly what you 
want. Here’s why. Being new in the business, he 
will lack the hardened “take ‘em to the cleaners at 
all cost” attitude of the more experienced veteran. 
Along the same lines, his persuasive skills will 
probably not be fully developed. And finally, 
remember, he is keenly aware that in order to 
remain employed he must sell cars. In order to 
accomplish this and gain an initial foothold in the 
profession, there’s a good chance he'll work his 
heart out for you and settle for a sale “on the 
books” even if the commission is small. 
