36 RESTORATION 
The Restoration 
of Nonsuch 
i 
By David Wingate 
nN 1 95, the world scientific community was 
stunned by the announcement that the cahow — a 
bird whose name had become synonymous with 
extinction because it was thought to have become 
extinct in the 1600s, around the same time as the 
dodo — had just been rediscovered. The cahow is 
a member of the petrel family, in the order which 
contains albatrosses and shearwaters. It ranges 
widely in the North Atlantic to the western edge of 
the Gulf Stream, where it feeds on squid and fish, 
but it breeds only on the 20 square miles of 
oceanic islands of Bermuda, located at 32° N and 
64° W in the western reaches of the Sargasso 
Sea, 580 miles east of Cape Hatteras. 
As the conservation program launched to save this 
extraordinary bird from extinction has gradually 
succeeded against all odds, expanding into the 
restoration of an entire terrestrial ecosystem on 
15-acre Nonsuch Island, the name “cahow” has ul- 
timately attained wider significance as a symbol of 
hope for conservationists around the world. 
The history of 
man on 
Bermuda 
provides a 
stark contrast 
to the story of 
the cahow. 
Settled as a 
British colony 
on the 
strategic sea 
lanes be- 
tween the old 
and new 
world, the 
island has 
become so 
successful 
economically 
that it is now threatened with environmental self- 
destruction. Bermuda is now the most densely 
. populated, isolated geographic and political unit in 
the world. 
a wi. 
Wal 
Metropolitan Pembroke Parish, 
modern-day Bermuda. 
In telling the story of man and the cahow on 
Bermuda together, from pre-colonial time until the 
present, | want to try to convey in a chronological 
perspective what it is like to be involved with a 
very long-time restoration project — the patience 
required, the drudgery, the occasional agonizing 
setback, and, finally, those exhilarating break- 
throughs that make it all seem worthwhile. 
Our story begins more than 400 
years ago when Bermuda was first discovered by 
Portuguese and Spanish navigators exploring the 
New World. In those days the treasure-laden 
galleons from the Spanish Main used to sail north 
from the West Indies to catch the westerly winds 
for their return home. Many came to grief in sud- 
den, violent storms on Bermuda’s uncharted reefs. 
As darkness overtook the stranded survivors they 
were terrified by the hordes of nocturnal seabirds 
coming and going to and from their nesting 
grounds each night. 
It was in circumstances similar to those of the 
Spanish that the British first landed on Bermuda. 
In 1609, a fleet sailing to relieve the Virginia 
Colony was dispersed by a hurricane near Ber- 
muda and the flagship, the Sea Venture, was ship- 
wrecked on its shores. 
In the clear surrounding 
waters the fish were so 
tame they could be 
caught by hand. The 
land itself was covered 
in dense forest, and two 
trees in particular were 
especially common. 
The Bermuda cedar 
provided valuable 
timber for ships and the 
palmetto provided 
leaves for thatching the 
huts and making ropes 
and basketware. Both 
trees provided edible 
berries for food. 
It was a land devoid of 
mammals. Indeed, the 
only four-footed land 
creature to reach Bermuda before man arrived 
was a small lizard of the skink family. An abun- 
dance of sea turtles hauled themselves up on the 
beaches to bask in the sun or lay their eggs. But 
by far the most dominant element of the fauna was 
the birds, because these had no difficulties in colo- 
nizing the island across the ocean. 
There were landbirds of several species, so tame 
that they readily landed on the settlers’ shoulders. 
We do not know all the species involved because 
many were soon to be exterminated by the impact 
of human settlement. Seabirds were even more 
abundant, because they were adapted to exploit- 
ing the food supply from a vast area of surround- 
ing ocean. By day, tropicbirds or longtails, as we 
have come to know them, were conspicuous. 
These diurnally active seabirds were eclipsed at 
night by nocturnally active shearwaters and petrels 
in even larger numbers. One of these, which came 
to be known as the cahow, outnumbered all of the 
others put together. The cahow was a ground- 
nesting, soil-burrowing seabird, and it nested both 
along the coast and inland, under the forest can- 
opy. Cahows are also some of the fastest and 
most efficient flyers in the world, and it was this ex- 
traordinary ability that enabled them to reach 
beyond the relatively sterile waters of the Sar- 
gasso Sea to feed in the rich upwellings of the 
Gulf Stream more than 400 miles away. 
As on other oceanic islands, the fauna of Bermuda 
proved exceptionally vulnerable because it had 
evolved in the absence of man and other mammal 
predators and showed no fear or defences against 
them when they eventually arrived. 
Legislation was passed in order to save the sea 
turtles as early as 1620. Seabirds were destroyed 
not only by man himself, but by a plague of rats 
which reached the islands accidentally in 1614 
and by the cats and dogs which were brought in to 
control the rats. In less than thirty years the 
abundant cahow was reduced to the verge of ex- 
tinction and only its fossil bones — which remain 
in caves and manmade excavations even today — 
attest to its former abundance. 
By 1684 it was all over. The Bermuda Company, 
formed to exploit the islands’ virgin resources, dis- 
banded and those settlers who remained were ulti- 
mately forced to go it alone, and to learn a new 
way Of life in order to live in balance with the land. 
Thus evolved a race of true Bermudians who dis- 
dained to work the land, but like the cahows 
turned their attention back to the sea as a source 
of survival. 
The middle and late 19th century was a time of 
great cultural infusion and contact between Ber- 
muda and the outside world. Many of the officers 
of the British naval garrisons had an interest in the 
natural sciences and their explorations provided 
the first detailed scientific descriptions of 
Nonsuch Island. 
Bermuda’s geology and natural history, beginning 
about 1840. Among other things their curiosity 
inspired them to look into the almost legendary 
accounts of the cahow bird by the early settlers. 
Their investigations were concentrated on the 
remote Castle Harbour Islands, where local fisher- 
men continued to report nocturnally active sea- 
birds which were indiscriminately referred to as 
pimlico or cahows. These islands were investi- 
gated by a number of naturalists between 1840 
and 1900, but the only nocturnal seabird they ever 
succeeded in finding was the pimlico, or 
Audubon’s shearwater. This led some to conclude 
that “cahow” was a synonym for the shearwater, 
but others, like the famous naturalist Addison E. 
Verrill, concluded that the cahow must have been 
a species of auk! 
The confusion lingered on into the early 1900s, 
when new evidence clarifying the identity of the 
bird was discovered in the form of abundant fossil 
bone deposits in Bermuda limestone caves. By 
1915 these bones had been examined by the 
avian paleontologist R. W. Shufeldt at Carnegie 
Museum, who identified them as a species of 
gadfly petrel, quite distinct from the bones of Aud- 
ubon’s shearwater which also occurred, though in 
lesser numbers, in the same caves. It was the 
sheer abundance of these bones together with the 
pronounced hooked bill that led Shufeldt to 
conclude that they must represent the legendary 
hook-billed cahows of the early settlement days. 
Then an amazing fact came to light. In 1906 Louis 
Mowbray, a Bermudian naturalist, had actually col- 
lected a living gadfly petrel from a crevice on one 
of the Castle Harbour Islands. The specimen had 
been preserved and sent to the American Museum 
of Natural History. Its bones were now compared 
with the fossils and found to be identical! Thus 
was the type specimen of the Bermuda petrel — 
Pterodroma cahow — described in 1916. 
It may seem incredible now that no one followed 
up on this revelation at the time, until we remem- 
ber that this was during the Great War, when an 
entire generation of European and American men 
were wiped out in the muddy trenches of Europe. 
It was also before the age of conservation when 
the emphasis was still on collecting and cataloging 
of species in the world’s museums, rather than 
studying the living organisms in their actual envi- 
ronment. 
Thirty years were to pass before another speci- 
men of the cahow turned up: this time a fledgling 
which was killed when it flew against St. David's 
lighthouse in June 1935. The specimen was taken 
to Dr. William Beebe, who was based on Bermuda 
doing fish studies with the New York Zoological 
Society at the time. Beebe was an ardent natural- 
ist and prolific writer who was one of the first to 
popularize natural history subjects for the general 
All 
photos 
by 
the 
author 
unless 
otherwise 
credited. 
