BICYCLING 67 
EERE 
ae SO, We 
ee 
Rails-To-Trails Conservancy 
What's the best use for abandoned railroad rights 
of way? As a cyclist, | say make ‘em into bike 
trails. (Locomotives and bicycle riders have about 
the same idea of what constitutes a reasonable 
gradient.) The long thin corridors are rarely useful 
for parkland, highways, or real estate, but the red 
tape involved in using them for anything else 
except trains tends to paralyze innovators. The 
Rails-To-Trails Conservancy knows how to deal 
with the deadly details that must be handled 
before bikers and hikers can puff where the 
engines once did. RTC publishes success stories, 
a legal manual (essential!) and the comprehensive 
Converting Rails-To-Trails: A Citizen’s Manual. 
If you have an old rail line near you, better get to 
work on it now — I’ve learned the hard way that 
when they take out the bridges and tunnels, trail 
conversions are much less likely to happen. —JB 
Allsop’s flexible seat suspension. 
Besides absorbing shock, suspen- 
sions keep the wheels on the ground 
in rough terrain. 
The Third Hand 
Absolutely the friendliest, most knowledgeable, 
best-stocked source of bicycle tools anywhere. 
Their succulent catalog is a real challenge to your 
ability to resist sending for one of each item. 
Sigh... —JB 
p= 
Cycling Science 
This welcome new quarterly presents the results of 
rigorous, scientific analysis and practical applica- 
tion of the various aspects of cycle technology. It’s 
written by the experimenters themselves, many of 
them famous. Their firsthand reporting gives a 
sweaty, greasy-hands feel to the whole exercise. 
No obtuse science jargon, either; the idea is to 
disseminate good information to all who can make 
use of it, manufacturers and amateurs alike. This 
Rails-To-Trails Conservancy, $18/year 
membership (includes subscription to RTC’s 
quarterly newsletter) 
RTC Legal Manual 
$42.50 (members $32.50) postpaid 
Converting Rails to Trails: A Citizen’s Manual 
$17 (members $12) postpaid 
The Third Hand (Bike Tools, Books & Loose 
Screws); Catalog free from: The Third Hand, 
P. O. Box 212, Mt. Shasta, CA 96067 
(916) 926-2600 
PARK THIRD HAND 
A spring-steel tool for 
Squeezing brake pads against ¥ 
All from: 
is a good place to get a feel for (and perhaps add 
the rim while tightening 
Rails-To-Trails Conservancy, 1400 Sixteenth 
to) what's coming next. —JB 
sockiterte, side & 
Street, NW, Suite 300,Washington, DC 20036 
eget 
Plastic-coated handle. 
(202) 797-5400 
n 
ien 
LAS Le betes 
Item #PA-BT1 
(New Developments for 
the Technical Enthusiast) 
Chester Kyle, Editor 
$19.97/year (4 issues) 
from: Cycling Science 
P. O. Box 1510 
Mount Shasta, CA 96067 
(916) 938-441 1 
Worksman Cycles 
Getcha Good Humor vending tricycle-with-cold- 
box here, folks! You can also find a wide range of 
other heavy-duty commercial trikes and bikes — 
most of the ones you see on the job come from 
here. This company has made ‘em like they used 
to since 1898. —JB 
The Bicycle: 
Vehicle for a Small Planet 
Like all Worldwatch papers (p. 8), this one is a 
rich, quick education on the subject. You get a 
little history, and a survey of the bicycle’s potential 
a 
= 
11416; 
for reducing pollution, congestion, and a host of 
z 
eee ane (118). 32222000 
other autotrauma. Tables and charts nicely show 
: 
the convincing numbers. All annotated to add 
weight to your presentation at the city council 
meeting at which you had better arrive on a bike. 
—JB 
Worksman Cycles 
Catalog $2 from: 
Worksman Trading 
Corporation, 94-15 
100th Street, 
Ozone Park, NY 
Dahon 
Why buy a little bitty bike that makes you look like 
a circus bear act? Theft resistance — bring it 
inside with you. Easy storage — keep it in the 
trunk of your car or in the closet. Take it with you 
on the bus or train. Eliminate the shuttle problem 
— stow it in your river raft, then ride it back to get 
the car. You'd be surprised how much use a folder 
gets, once you have it. The Dahon isn’t the best or 
the lightest folding bike ever to hit the market, but 
it certainly is the best distributed. This has van- 
quished the opposition; Dahon is the only com- 
monly available folding bike. It does the job pretty 
The Bicycle: Vehicle for a Small 
Planet, Worldwatch Paper 90 
September 1987; 62 pp.; Marcia 
D. Lowe; $4 postpaid from: 
Worldwatch Institute 
1776 Massachusetts Avenue, NW 
Washington, DC 20036 
For longer trips, linking bicycling with mass transit 
through improved access to transit stations holds 
great potential for reducing energy use and air 
pollutants. According to a 1980 Chicago Area 
Transportation analysis, bike-and-ride is the most 
cost-effective way to reduce hydrocarbon and 
carbon monoxide emissions. Giving cyclists 
secure parking at transit stations would reduce 
hydrocarbon emissions at a public cost of $311 
per ton, for example, compared with $96,415 a ton 
for an express park-and-ride service, $214,959 for 
a feeder bus service and $3,937 per ton for a 
commuter rail-carpool matching service. Carbon 
monoxide reductions would come at similar 
savings. 
Bikecentennial 
Born fourteen years ago, the non-profit recrea- 
tional cycling organization Bikecentennial has 
become a sponsor of organized bike tours, a 
lobbying force, and the best source of bicycle 
touring maps. It’s the maps that are special; 
they’re drawn with the biker in mind as they 
indicate the best routes through both country and 
urban tangle. —JB 
Bikecentennial The Bicycle Travel Association, 
$22/year membership, Catalog $1 (free with 
membership) both from: Bikecentennial, 
P.O. Box 8308, Missoula, MT 59807 
(800) 835-2246 
well, exhibiting acceptable road behavior, and with 
practice, easy folding-unfolding. It will fit into a 
suitcase-size (but lumpy) carry sack that makes it 
OK in places where bikes are taboo. Unless you 
are uncommonly proportioned, it will fit you; the 
seat-handlebar-pedal relationship is about the 
same as a conventional fullsize bike. Note that 
many Dahons are sold by shops that do not 
normally do bicycle business. If you buy from one 
of those (or from their catalogs), you may have to 
tune or even reassemble it after purchase. Bottom 
line: Useful. —JB 
Dahon Bicycles, $180-$380; Information free 
from: Dahon California, Inc., 2949 Whipple 
Road, Union City, CA 94587; (415) 471-6330 
