me Electro- 
Magnetic 
Environment 
By Robert Horvitz 
O ON THE ONE HAND you have folks sticking 
their heads in electronic “tuning” fields, as some 
sort of brain-boost or nonchemical psychedelic, 
and on the other you have folks afraid of leakage 
from video monitors, microwave ovens, and 
powerlines. Are electromagnetic fields (EMFs) a 
neat high or a lethal hazard? 
Maybe both, maybe neither. Maybe we just don’t 
know. 
There’s been an upsurge recently in public 
concern about the invisible fog of electromag- 
netism we live in. It must concern us because that 
fog has thickened so much this century, and it per- 
meates our bodies. Every electric motor, appliance 
and current-carrying wire radiates energy as a 
byproduct of normal operation. We also use radio 
to communicate, as in broadcasting, cordless and 
cellular phones, beepers and CBs. Microwave 
ovens are popular. So are electric blankets and 
stoves. Radar is used by police departments, me- 
teorologists, aviators and navies around the world. 
Metal detectors, remote controlled toys . 
. 
. the list 
goes on and on. 
We can’t see these emissions. That used to mean 
we ignored them. But now that a wide range of 
biochemical effects has been attributed even to 
weak EMFs, invisibility feeds fear: we don’t know 
when or how much we’re being exposed. Expo- 
sure is likely anywhere that electricity flows, and 
our dependence on things electric grows daily. 
There’s some consolation in knowing that this 
wave energy penetrates our bodies precisely 
because we absorb so little of it: we are nearly 
transparent to radio. And compared to sunlight, 
which can sear flesh in a few hours, low frequency 
EMFs are “soft.” The sun’s ultraviolet rays are a 
much more immediate health threat. 
Which partly explains why research on the biologi- 
cal impact of EMFs got off to a slow, faltering start. 
Another reason is that bioelectricity seems to 
attract charlatans and quacks like no other 
subject. That has made funding agencies and 
serious scientists leery. Plus, some people in high 
places oppose research whose findings could 
impede “progress,” raise business costs, establish 
liability, or encourage regulation. Shutting down 
the Environmental Protection-Agency’s research 
program on EMFs in 1986 was one of the Reagan 
Administration’s many low-points. 
Despite the prevailing skepticism and lack of 
funding, interest in EMF bioeffects increased 
during the 1980s, after some curious results were 
found in lab experiments, and statistical studies 
started showing some association between EMFs 
and serious illness. Federal inaction in the face of 
growing public fear led some local governments to 
impose tight restrictions on EMF sources. As the 
patchwork of local standards spreads, it’s starting 
to look like the cost of not doing the research 
needed to establish consistent and reasonable 
safety standards may be higher than doing it right. 
A few hints of consensus have started to emerge 
from the work done so far. With caveats galore 
(I’m no doctor, we still don’t understand the 
mechanisms, not everyone agrees), this fool 
rushes in where a lot of other fools have already 
been mucking around: 
* Many bio-effects seem to occur at specific com- 
binations of frequency and power, suggesting that 
molecular resonance is involved. If that’s the case, 
setting exposure limits across the broad spectrum 
THE ELECTROMAGNETIC ENVIRONMENT 87 
will be difficult. (To use a plumbing analogy, your 
pipes may “sing” when water flows through them 
at a specific rate. Decreasing the flow will stop the 
singing; but so will INCREASING it. And when the 
water is at a different temperature, the singing 
starts and stops at different flow-rates. This kind of 
nonlinear relationship between “dose” and effect 
means that at certain frequencies, 
a weak EMF 
might have more impact on a specific chemical 
reaction than than a stronger one does.) Until we 
sort everything out minimizing exposure in general 
is the safest strategy. 
¢ The orientation of the field, the coherence and 
shape of the waves, the way they’re modulated 
(AM, FM, or pulse), the peak versus average 
power density — any or all of these may be impor- 
tant variables. They complicate setting exposure 
limits, too. 
* Magnetic fields may be more of a health prob- 
lem than electrical fields, though they are often 
found together. TVs and video terminals, small 
motors (hairdriers, fans, and plug-in clocks), 
fluorescent lights and electric blankets, are typical 
sources of magnetic fields in the home. Magnetic 
shielding (as opposed to electrical shielding) is 
generally impractical. However, the magnetic fields 
from most appliances fade to below the back- 
ground level a few feet or yards away. 
* The magnetic fields of powerlines have a farther 
reach. They are more intense where there’s an 
unbalanced load and the voltage is stepped down 
by a transformer. You can easily check for “hot- 
spots” in your neighborhood by walking around 
with a portable radio tuned to a vacant channel at 
the low end of the AM band. As you near a 
radiating section, you'll hear a loudening buzz. 
¢ 
If you have a microwave oven, have a profes- 
sional repairman check the seal around the door 
at least once a year. 
* Electric blankets have been singled out as 
something to avoid because they create strong 
fields and are meant to be used close to the body 
for long periods of time. Consider a down com- 
forter instead. 
It's important to keep in mind that not all of the 
recently discovered effects are necessarily 
harmful. Some may have no health impact at all, 
and some may ultimately prove beneficial. The 
real pay-off in EMF bioeffects research may not be 
just in minimizing risks, but in the development of 
positive applications. It is already clear that there 
are therapeutic uses — in bone-healing and pain 
relief — as well as new imaging techniques which 
eliminate the need for exploratory surgery. If EMFs 
can in fact promote or inhibit certain chemical re- 
actions, we may able to harness that ability for 
desirable ends. 
. Artificial EMFs 
Research is moving so fast in this field that news- 
letters are the only way to keep up. “Microwave 
News” and “VDT News,” both edited by Louis 
Slesin, are widely acclaimed by all sides as the 
best sources of reliable and current information. 
Slesin believes that ‘emissions from computer 
monitors, and EMFs generally, are a serious 
health issue. But he’s established a reputation as 
an “honest broker.” When a well-done study is 
published showing no evidence of harm, or 
refuting a study that found something scary, Slesin 
reports it just as carefully, and with just as promi- 
nent a headline, as reports favoring the other side. 
As a result, he’s been much more effective in 
changing the attitudes of researchers than more 
partisan reporters. Almost every study cited in 
Currents Of Death was first reported in either 
“Microwave” or “VDT News.” 
As you might have guessed, “VDT News” covers 
emissions from computer monitors, and worker- 
health issues related to office equipment in 
general. “Microwave News’ is less accurately 
titled. It covers the entire radio spectrum, not just 
microwaves, increasingly focusing on the low end 
of the spectrum (macrowaves?). “MN” is the more 
expensive of the two, but it has a lot more news 
per issue. 
Microwave News 
$250/year (6 issues) 
P.O. Box 1799 
Grand Central Station 
New York, NY 10163 
(212) 517-2800 
VDT News 
$87/year (6 issues) 
P.O. Box 1799 
Grand Central Station 
New York, NY 10163 
(212) 517-2802 
For a one-off summary, a background paper pub- 
lished by the U.S. Congress’s Office of Technol- 
ogy Assessment is a reasonable place to start. 
Biological Effects of Power Frequency Electric 
and Magnetic Fields addresses powerline issues, 
summarizing the research in a relatively acces- 
sible, non-alarmist way. Also discusses policy 
issues, recent regulatory actions, and ongoing 
research programs. 
Biological Effects of Power 
Frequency Electric and 
Magnetic Fields, Office of 
Technology Assessment 
1989; 103 pp.; Stock No. #052- 
003-01 152-2; $4.75 from: 
Superintendent of Documents 
Government Printing Office 
Washington, DC 20402-9325 
(202) 783-3238. 
Among recent books on these subjects, Currents 
of Death has certainly attracted the most atten- 
tion. Brodeur gives a pretty good overview of 
material originally published in Slesin’s newslet- 
ters. But he differs sharply from Slesin in taking 
any skepticism about even the flakiest claims of 
injury from EMFs as proof that the doubter must 
be part of a massive conspiracy hatched by the 
U.S. military, the electric utilities and the computer 
manufacturers, who want to wreak a holocaust on 
the public and cover up their evil plan. For 
Brodeur, there’s no such thing as a different 
interpretation of ambiguous data. There are no 
errors in the research of the pro-harm camp, fatal 
errors in every study from the no-harm camp. 
Reasonable people don’t disagree: you're either 
pro-Life or pro-Death. 
This is nonsense. It does a real disservice to the 
complexity of the scientific issues, and to the 
honest researchers in both camps trying to figure 
them out. The breakthroughs in understanding 
which are likely to emerge from this controversy 
are probably still cloaked in unresolved questions 
that Brodeur would dismiss as lame excuses for 
reactionary caution. If you read this book, make 
sure you read the OTA paper for some sort of 
balance. 
Currents of Death 
(Power Lines, Computer 
Terminals, and the Attempt 
to Cover Up Their Threat to 
Your Health), Paul Brodeur 
1989; 333 pp.; $19.45 ($21.40 
postpaid) from: Simon & 
Schuster, Mail Order Dept. 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
(800) 223-2336 
WEA 
