RESTORATION 33 
A Survey of Publications 
Covering Restoration 
by Dave Egan 
Environmental restoration news is scattered far 
and wide, often in tiny newsletters, or magazines 
that cover it occasionally. Dave Egan scans these 
publications and writes up abstracts of what’s 
interesting for Restoration & Management Notes 
(see review p. 32) where he is assistant editor. 
Here are his choices of the best publications. Like 
the subjects they cover, many of them are fragile 
— tiny budgets, no advertising revenues, few sub- 
scribers — and worthy of your support. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Ree 
ee 
Pee oe 
ee 
aed 
American Midland Naturalist 
One of the best experimental science journals 
available to the restoration community. Its articles 
are well researched and written, not overly laden 
with technical jargon or unruly statistical data. 
Recent examples include: “A 12-year study of 
vegetation and mammal succession on a recon- 
structed tallgrass prairie in lowa,” “A 20-year study 
of the effect of prescribed burning on Andropogon 
scoparius in Connecticut,” “Response of Hama- 
melis virginiana to canopy gaps.” Definitely worth 
trying to obtain either as a subscriber or through 
your local college library. 
American Midland Naturalist, Robert P. Mcin- 
tosh, Editor; $50/year (4 issues) from: American 
Midland Naturalist, University of Notre Dame 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
BioScience 
While fairly technical in its approach and subject 
material, this journal still provides restorationists 
with some interesting reading, particularly in the 
areas of genetics and biological diversity. Articles 
from recent issues include: “Blueprint for conserv- 
ing plant diversity,” “Shredders and riparian 
vegetation,” and “Integrated conservation strategy 
for Hawaiian forest birds.” 
BioScience, Julie Ann Miller, Editor; $42/year 
(11 issues) from: AIBS, 730 11th Street NW 
Washington, DC 20001-4584; (202) 628-1500 
California Waterfront Age 
As the title suggests, this journal focuses on the 
California coastline, although the information is 
applicable to other states as well. Recently funded 
dune, beach, and littoral wetland restoration pro- 
jects are featured. By placing restoration within the 
context of a multiple-use resource, CWA provides 
a pragmatic look at the balancing act between hu- 
man use and resource management. Recent 
articles include: “Restoration standards: how to 
guarantee environmental protection,” “Watershed 
restoration: an idea whose time has come — 
again,” “How public access affects wetlands,” and 
“Stream restoration: the healing touch.” 
California Waterfront Age, Rasa Gustaitis, 
Editor; free (4 issues/year) from: California 
Waterfront Age, State Coastal Conservancy 
1330 Broadway, Suite 
1100, Oakland, CA 94612 
(415) 464-1015 
Conservation Biology 
This relatively new, smart-looking journal carries 
very cogent articles about the international 
preservation and conservation of animal species, 
especially those which are threatened or endan- 
gered. Habitat and ecosystem restoration are 
discussed as a strategy for accomplishing this 
larger goal. Recent issues have had some restora- 
tion-oriented articles, including: “Restoring island 
ecosystems: the potential of parasites to control 
introduced mammals,” “Vegetation dynamics 
(succession and climax) in relation to plant 
community management,” and “Consequences 
and costs of conservation corridors.” 
[Suggested by Dave Foreman] 
Conservation Biology; David Ehrenfeld, Editor 
$32.50/year (4 issues; includes membership) 
from: Blackwell Scientific Publications, Inc. 
3 Cambridge Center, Suite 208, Cambridge, MA 
02142; (617) 225-0401 
Natural Areas 
_ 
Jou ral 
Fremontia 
This journal, like most native-plant society publica- 
tions, seeks to educate the public on the need to 
appreciate and preserve their region’s native plant 
populations. An intelligent, horticulture/genetics 
bent surfaces not only in its articles about rare- 
plant propagation, but also in probes regarding the 
long-range effects of restorative plantings amongst 
native plant populations. Good information on 
exotic species control is typically available, as well. 
Recent articles include: “Restoration: Disneyland 
or a native ecosystem?” and “Can native flora 
survive prescribed burns?.” Interesting reading no 
matter what your bioregion, and one of the best 
examples of what an organization might do to 
encourage others to value their local landscape 
and native flora. 
Fremontia, Phyllis M. Faber, Editor; $18/year 
(4 issues) from: California Native Plant Society 
909 12th Street, Suite 116, Sacramento, CA 
95814; (916) 477-2677 
Natural Areas Journal 
This publication provides reports from natural 
, 
areas about rare species management and 
monitoring as part of the overall goal of ecosystem 
preservation. Although it is not NAJ’s major em- 
phasis, restoration has recently received more 
attention (and thus more journal space) as an 
important tool for the land manager. It is well 
written, with a good bibliography of recent publica- 
tions about restoration and management. Articles 
from previous issues include: “Structure and com- 
position of low elevation old-growth forests in 
research natural areas of southeast Alaska,” 
“Managing prairie remnants for insect diversity,” 
and “Design of a long-term ecological monitoring 
program for Channel Islands National Park, 
California.” 
Natural Areas Journal, Greg F.. Iffrig, Editor 
$25/year (4 issues) from: Natural Areas 
Association, 320 S. 3rd Street, Rockford, IL 
61104; (815) 964-6666 
Park Science 
While the National Park Service is the recipient of 
criticism from various circles, it nevertheless 
maintains a solid commitment to scientific, restora- 
tion-oriented activities. Their in-house newsletter, 
Park Science, documents those activities along 
with myriad other NPS projects. Previous issues 
have included articles entitled “Non-native moun- 
tain goat management undertaken at Olympia 
National Park,” “Endangered species restoration at 
Gulf Islands Seashore,” and “Galapagos botanical 
management provides perspective for Hawaii.” 
Park Science, Jean Mathews, Editor; free 
(4 issues/year) from: Park Science, 4150 South- 
west Fairhaven Drive, Corvallis, OR 97333 
Wildflower 
This journal is very easy to read, yet contains 
insightful horticultural information for both lay and 
professional audiences. Its articles are about 
native wildflowers, their propagation and use in 
home landscaping as well as in revegetation 
projects. While the intent is national in focus, many 
pieces deal with vegetation native to the southern 
and southwestern United States. Articles from a 
recent issue include: “Task force recommends: 
wildflower policy for Minnesota,” “Wild sunflowers: 
heritage and resource,” and “Desert botanical 
garden research: owl-clover and commercial 
mixes.” 
Wildflower, John E. Averett, Editor; $25/year 
(2 issues) from: National Wildflower Research 
Center, 2600 FM 973 North, Austin, TX 78725 
(512) 929-3600 
—Fremontia 
Other Journals 
Other interesting journals and newsletters also 
cross my desk which are more local or specialized 
in nature. If they are located in your vicinity or deal 
with a topic in which you have an interest, | urge 
you to contact them. The local newsletters can be 
especially helpful for putting you in touch with 
restorationists in your area. 
Plant Conservation; $35/year (4 issues) from: 
The Center For Plant Conservation, 
125 The Arborway, Jamaica Plain, MA 02130 
(617) 524-6988 
Creek Currents; $15/year (4 issues) from: 
Newsletter of the Urban Creeks Council 
2530 San Pablo Avenue, Berkeley, CA 94702 
(415) 540-6669 
Missouri Prairie Journal; $20/year (4 issues) 
from: The Missouri Prairie Foundation 
P.O. Box 200, Columbia, MO 65205 
The Palmetto; $20/year (4 issues) from: 
Florida Native Plant Society, 2020 Red Gate 
Road, Orlando, FL 32818; (407) 299-1472 
Wetlands Research Update; free (2 issues) 
from: 
United States Environmental Protection Agency 
Corvallis Environmental Research Laboratory 
200 Southwest 35th Street, Corvallis, OR 97333 
