Windstar 
82 BIOSHELTERS 
Bioshelters 
By J. Baldwin 
Conceptually, it’s house-as-consumer vs. house- 
as-provider. Most homes import some combination 
of electricity, gas, oil, firewood, water and food. 
They export garbage and wastewater. A vast and 
expensive system of umbilical wires, pipes and 
roads makes this possible, but not particularly 
desirable. 
In contrast, a bioshelter can be designed to make 
its own electricity and heat the wash water. It 
raises food (except for Twinkies), processes or 
recycles most of its wastes, and maintains the 
desired air temperature — all directly or indirectly 
with solar power. Think of a bioshelter as a 
pleasant greenhouse that you live in. A larger 
bioshelter with dwelling units around its perimeter 
might serve institutions or even whole neighbor- 
hoods. (Note that the necessity for some sort of 
road remains; bioshelters are not a cure-all). 
The basic idea isn’t new. Greenhouses have been 
around for about 400 years, though few have been 
rigged as fulltime living space for people. In 1945, 
Buckminster Fuller proposed a “Garden-of-Eden 
Dome” as an alternative to conventional homes. 
am 
Bucky and Anne Fuller pose for his 85th birthday 
at Windstar in 1981. Behind them is a prototype of 
his “Fly’s Eye” dome and the one remaining Dy- 
maxion car, both flown in for the party. Never mar- 
keted, the Fly’s Eye currently stars in a traveling 
Fuller exhibit. The 1934 three-wheeled Dymaxion 
car lives at Harrah’s Auto Museum in Reno. It sat 
eleven people, could top 120 mph and got 30 
miles per gallon using a crude Ford V8 engine. 
The idea was to erect a lightweight, transparent 
geodesic dome — he called it a “Skybreak” — 
under which the occupants could control the 
weather. The protected interior could be fashioned 
imaginatively and economically from local materi- 
als, expressing the inhabitants’ creativity to a 
much greater degree than is possible in a conven- 
tional house. (This answered critics accusing 
domes of “peas in a pod” sameness). The con- 
trolled climate would make possible “living out- 
doors-indoors” with aquaculture, agriculture, and 
even trees. The dome shells were to be be high- 
tech, permanent, maintenance-free, and very 
economical of resources. They would be inexpen- 
sively mass-produced from materials that resist 
deterioration. Being state-of-the-art, they would 
defer technical and stylistic obsolescence. Building 
time would be measured in hours instead of 
months; equally simple disassembly would permit 
relocation. Domes can easily be made earthquake 
and hurricane proof. With this interesting potential 
why has no Garden-of-Eden dome or other 
bioshelter-home been built? 
As with any evolving idea, experimenters have 
approached the building of bioshelters in a variety 
of ways, not necessarily as domes. Biosphere II 
(p. 6) is the most comprehen- 
sive, and expensive. More 
modest controlled ecosystems 
have been successfully dem- 
onstrated by Carl Hodges — 
now deeply involved in 
Biosphere || — and by the 
New Alchemy Institute, as well 
as a host of imitators. Most of 
these systems use fish tanks 
as solar heat storage. The fish 
eat dark-colored, solar heat 
absorbing algae, insects, and 
vegetable scraps. The warm 
tank water, enriched by “fish 
exhaust,” is periodically used 
to irrigate gardens or hydro- 
ponic troughs. Properly 
designed, bioshelters can raise 
commercial quantities of vege- 
tables (and fish) even in the off 
season, eliminating shipping 
costs, and keeping customers’ 
money in the local economy. 
Bioshelters also work well for 
related uses; John Todd’s 
Solar Aquatic Systems waste- 
water treatment facilities (p. 
85) for example. 
| mention proper design be- 
cause glasshouses have a 
history of fragility and energy 
hunger, with resulting high 
maintenance costs. Traditional 
greenhouse materials deterio- 
rate quickly under siege from 
weather, sunlight, mildew, cor- 
rosion, and rot. There has also 
been the persistent problem of 
controlling temperature and hu- 
midity extremes without resorting to economically 
and philosophically unacceptable fossil-fuelled 
heating and cooling. And there are difficulties with 
anachronistic building codes that label such 
buildings — even experimental ones — as “unfit 
for human habitation.” To my knowledge, no insu- 
lated, transparent, permanent structure enjoys 
mass production at this time. 
z g 
ee 
Ln 
In 1982, terminal rot brought down the New 
Alchemy Institute’s 2x4 and fiberglass geodesic 
dome greenhouse after less than a decade. It has 
been replaced by one of my designs, a pillowdome 
framed with aircraft aluminum tubing and skinned 
with argon-inflated triangular “pillows” fabricated 
from DuPont's Tefzel®. This tough, inert material 
is more transparent than glass, and is one of the 
few plastics not degraded by sunlight. (At least not 
for 27 years, the time samples have been out in 
Florida sun.) The inert argon gas acts as insulation 
— it’s much better than air — and built-in fire sup- 
pression. The 31 ft. diameter dome weighs only 
1/2 lb. per square foot, yet it has withstood 130 
mph winds and heavy snow loads without dam- 
age. Structural parts shade only 4% of the floor; 
conventional greenhouses shade as much as 
25%. It makes a respectable year-round green- 
house, but the temperature varies too much for 
human comfort. Mass production awaits expensive 
tooling. 
The Windstar 
Foundation’s 50 
ft. diameter Bio- 
dome was calcu- 
lated by Amy 
Edmondson and 
executed by 
John Katzen- 
berger in 1986. 
These domes 
are skinned with 
translucent, 
Windstar 
The 50 ft. Biodome at Windstar. 
ai 
] 
(8 
Windstar’s 50 ft. Biodome at Snowmass, Colo- 
rado, grows vegetables and fish all year despite 
subzero winters. No fossil fuel is used; electricity 
comes from photovoltaic panels and a small water 
turbine. You can buy one, though it needs more 
development for use as a home. For another look 
at a Biodome exterior, see page 50. 
triple-layer polycarbonate panels mounted on an 
aircraft aluminum framework. Like New Alchemy’s 
bioshelters, this one houses fishtanks and gar- 
dens, the latter arrayed on three decks. There are 
eight Biodomes up or a-building at this time; one in 
Denmark. Another is planned for Soviet Georgia. 
They’re located in various climates, a good way to 
learn the food-raising procedures for maximum 
yield anywhere. 
A separate company, Biospaces, Inc. (P.O. Box 
1725, Basalt, CO 81621; 303/963-0114), has been 
set up to produce hand-built Biodomes in various 
sizes. 
If you need a big, permanent Biodome 
today, Biospaces, Inc. can build you one. But not 
to live in; as with the pillowdome, the temperature 
varies too much for all-season human comfort. 
Prices are not outrageous. 
When will bioshelters be able to house human 
beings? Soon, I’d guess. Recent developments in 
solar drying of fine furniture woods include a heat 
pump specifically designed to dehumidify an 
interior space without throwing away the heat. This 
should solve bioshelter condensation problems. 
There has been progress in maintaining steady 
interior temperatures as well. 
Suntek 
Ten years ago, Day Chahroudi was instrumental in 
developing a coating known as Heat Mirror®. It 
permits the passage of visible light, but blocks cer- 
tain heat-carrying infra-red wavelengths. Heat 
Mirror is widely available today in premium grade 
windows upon which it bestows superior insulation 
Windstar 
