Mf 
28 ECOLOGY 
Ecology” has come to mean just about anything. 
Doom-gloom to the end-of-the-worlders. Mystical 
harmony to the religio-eco-freaks. Grants to the 
college crowd. The word comes from Greek: 
“Oikos” and “Logos.” “Oikos” means house, or 
dwelling-place. “Logos” primarily means dis- 
course, or “word, thought or speech.” To the early 
Greeks, “Logos” was the moving and regulating 
principle in things (associated with fire-energy), as 
well as the part of human nature that was able to 
see this ordering energy at work. 
Ecology, at its root and origin, means domestic 
chatter; talking about where-you-live; feeling out 
the household rules; remaining open and percep- 
tive to the moving and regulating principle of your 
watershed and/or planet home. —Peter Warshall 
CREE 
ern eee 
ee ee 
ee 
Concepts of Ecology 
There is a crusade called Ecology. And also a 
science called Ecology. And they’re not as distinct 
as they think they are. 
This book is about the science, unhindered by rhet- 
oric. Its subject is energy flow, cycles, populations, 
ecological communities, and man’s place in the 
system. The emphasis is on theory and observa- 
tion rather than math. Areas that are still poorly 
understood get due attention. | wish this book had 
’ been around when | 
studied ecology. 
4000 
3000 
2000 
1000 
—Stewart Brand 
Concepts of Ecology 
Edward J. Kormondy 
1984; 288 pp.; $26.40 
($28.90 postpaid) from: 
Prentice-Hall 
200 Old Tappan Rd. 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
(800) 922-0579 WEA 
fea 
Altitude 
(m) 
/ 
Grass on 
a 
8 
/ Sayan land 
50}, 
ee 
ee 2 
| 
kilometers 
Profile of the central Sierra Nevada showing 
altitudinal distribution of principal forest types. 
Ecology’s roots extend to the origins of humanity 
itself. Our ancestors had to have been students of 
the environment, else our species would have 
been extinguished. 
. 
. 
. Hanns Reiter appears to 
have been the first to combine the Greek words 
oikos (=house) and logos (=study of) to form the 
term ecology. There is consensus, however, that 
(German biologist Ernst) Haeckel first gave 
substance to the term in 1866 and in the following 
statement in1870: 
By ecology we mean the body of knowledge 
concerning the economy of nature — the investi- 
gation of the total relations of the animal both to its 
inorganic and to its organic environment; including 
above all, its friendly and inimical relation with 
those animals and plants with which it comes 
directly or indirectly into contact — in a word, 
ecology is the study of all the complex interrela- 
tions referred to by Darwin as the conditions of the 
struggle for existence. 
Rainfall 
(cm) 
%*WEA — Available from Whole Earth Access, see p. 2. 
pees nee 
a Ra ac al a ae 
es aS SRI LS 
Ecology 
The science of ecology has suffered from success. 
It can mean many things in the popular mind and 
seems to have emerged all at once as a full blown 
discipline around 1970. One of the best things this 
college text does is to take pains to trace the 
evolution of ecology as a branch of science and 
explain the significant changes it has undergone 
since the early ’70s. Colinvaux writes clearly and is 
sparing with the jargon and math unless absolutely 
necessary. He even offers several routes through 
his book for short-course browsers. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Ecology 
Paul Colinvaux 
1986; 725 pp. 
$48.95 postpaid from: 
John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 
1 Wiley Dr., Somerset, 
NJ 08875-1272 
(201) 469-4400 *WEA 
The Clementsian view led to attractive systems for 
classifying plant communities. In every climatic 
region there was a single climax plant community, 
the CLIMAX FORMATION. . . 
. All other communi- 
ties found in the region were related to the climax 
formation as various stages of its development. 
Essential to this point of view is the idea that a 
community is a SUPERORGANISM, an entity of 
many species that has EMERGENT PROPER- 
TIES of its own. Realizing that his superorganism 
drew some of its properties from animals as well 
as plants, Clements coined the word BIOME to 
replace the earlier climax formation for his ultimate 
community unit... 
. 
Clements’ work is still important because it lies at 
the root of many of the political or social move- 
ments that take their names from ecology in the 
present day. Whenever activists accuse their 
political or exploiter adversaries of “ecocide” they 
invoke Clements’ teachings. They borrow from him 
the idea that the ecosystem of the climax is an 
organism, saying that therefore it can be killed. 
The modern view is that succession is an inevi- 
table consequence of the coexistence of plants 
with different strategies. 
. 
. 
. Plants, like all prod- 
ucts of natural selection, are individualists. This 
essential truth was argued strongly even in 
Clements’ day, most notably by Gleason. But the 
final triumph of Gleason’s individualistic hypothe- 
sis of succession came only with the concept of 
species strategies in the 1960s. 
Ecological Engineering 
Ecology is the subject of 2 rousing debate going on 
right now between theoreticians, engineers, and ex- 
perimenters. Perhaps debate isn’t the proper word; 
there is little direct communication between the 
camps. Scholars want to do more studies; the ex- 
perimenters want to explore without having to 
endure sneers, or, all too often, peer review. 
Engineers are caught in the middle. Few have 
enjoyed formal training in ecological matters, yet 
their job is to DO something that satisfies that most 
implacable settler of arguments: it has to work. This 
utterly professional book is remarkably comprehen- 
sive, though a bit behind the cutting edge, as any 
academic tome must be. (Periodicals take up the 
slack.) The critical, inextricably imbedded politics 
and sociology are not discussed. This unfortunate 
omission can give ecologically illiterate readers the 
impression that a technical fix is always possible 
and desirable — an impression that is at the root of 
many current problems. Nonetheless, the very 
recognition of Ecological Engineering as a disci- 
pline is a welcome sign that ecologists and engi- 
neers are finally talking. It’s a start. —JB 
Ecological Engineering 
Jgrgensen Mitsch; 1989 
472 pp.; $54.95 ($57.95 
postpaid) from: John Wiley 
& Sons, Inc., 1 Wiley Dr. 
Somerset, NJ 08875-1272 
(201) 469-4400 WEA 
If the mechanisms of higher-level reinforcement 
provide goals that the mechanisms at lower levels 
must conform to to be reinforced, they are tele- 
ological mechanisms. Those who were taught that 
teleology was a sin do not allow themselves to 
think of mechanistic performance goals for survival 
in self-organization. This becomes a mental 
obstacle to understanding what controls ecosys- 
tems or how ecological engineering works. 
Understanding ecosystems and their management 
requires recognition of the control by higher levels 
of the components of a smaller level. Ecosystems 
cannot be understood by studies at one level 
alone (i.e., population ecology) because control 
comes from the next level. 
Why Big Fierce 
Animals Are Rare 
Ecology is having a kind of personality crisis at the 
moment . 
. 
. feeling bewildered . 
. 
. searching for 
new harmonies amid the raucousness of Nature’s 
wild ways. It is a healthy time. Some even ques- 
tion if there is really a “system” in ecosystem. Life 
is certainly viewed as more complex than simple 
parallel, melodic lines — like a Bach canon — of 
foxes and rabbits. 
Ecologists must face the new metaphors of music: 
Nature as a, 16-track multi-mix; African 
polyrhythms; raga modes or natural dissonance. 
New, less deterministic harmonies of community 
ecology await human expression. The new music 
will give great weight to the invisible, for example, 
special types of plant biotechnology like C3, C4 
and CAM metabolism; to a karmic biogeochemis- 
try of each community's soils and to the ability of 
some bacteria and pigeons to orient to their 
community by magnetism. 
Until then, Colinvaux’s Why Big Fierce Animals 
Why Big Fierce Animals 
Are Rare, Paul Colinvaux 
1978; 256 pp.; $8.95 post- 
paid from: Princeton 
University Press, 
3175 Princeton Pike 
Lawrenceville, NJ 08648 
(609) 896-2111 WEA 
why als 
: 
OOP ors 
f 
Are Rare is the only literate book to confront 
fashionable math and information theory with 
naturalist news. —Peter Warshall 
e 
The grand pattern of life was clearly and directly a 
consequence of the second law of thermodynam- 
ics. We can now understand why there are not 
fiercer dragons on the earth than there are; it is 
because the energy supply will not stretch to the 
support of super-dragons. Great white sharks or 
killer whales in the sea, and lions and tigers on the 
land, are apparently the most formidable animals 
the contemporary earth can support. 
