102 ECOTOURISM 
To UFISTS are an infestation that degrades the society and environment being visited. 
Tourists are economic salvation and the strongest encouragement for the preserva- 
tion of indigenous societies and the beauties of nature. 
Sad examples are not hard to find; tourism is an example of Garrett Hardin’s Tragedy 
of the Commons (p. 98) with that which is being toured as the commons. But affluent people spend 
about $150 billion a year just for international travel; tourism is the largest single industry in the world. 
Since people are going to traipse around the planet, efforts are being made to reduce 
the deleterious effects. The best ecotourism strategies may actually bring benefit to the people and 
land being visited. The worst merely preserve a fakey stage-set showpiece with the locals as low-paid 
actors. Obviously it is impossible to have no effect at all. These things are still being worked out, so 
there is a wide range of eco-conscious travel available, not all of it beyond reproach. Take time to 
snoop around a bit and find an outfit that feels right to you at this time. Obviously, we can’t list all 
available tour firms; the following are just a sample. —JB 
North American Coordinating Center For Responsible Tourism 
This worthy organization is probably best known 
for its Code of Ethics for Tourists, but the Center is 
active in many areas, including:such arcane 
matters as the treatment of hidden crewmembers 
on fancy cruise ships. 
(You might be surprised at 
what's going on out there.) Here’s where to find 
out how to travel in a manner less likely to damage 
your hosts. You'll feel less guilty, and you might 
even do them some good. —JB 
_ RESPONSIBLE TRAVELING 
When planning a trip or buying a package tour, 
ask yourself these questions: 
* Does the tour organizer or travel agent demon- 
strate a cultural and environmental sensitivity to 
your questions? 
* How are the local people and the culture you are 
to visit portrayed in advertising brochures and ori- 
entation materials? 
* Who benefits from the costs of your trip? Which 
sectors of the host country benefit? What percent- 
age of your money stays in the country you visit 
rather than leaking out to the transnational travel 
industry, the hotel chains, and airlines? 
* Is a realistic picture of your host country pre- 
sented, or is it a version packaged for tourists? 
* Will you use accommodations, transportation, 
The New World of Travel 
1990, Arthur Frommer 
1990: 381 pp.; $16.95 
($19.95 postpaid) from: 
Simon & Schuster, Inc. 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
(201) 767-5937 WEA 
and food used by members of the local society? 
* Does your schedule allow adequate opportuni- 
ties for meeting with local people? Does its pacing 
provide time for you to create and/or accept 
opportunities for interacting with local people? 
* Are you committed to engage in a pre-trip orien- 
tation program? Have you thought through ways to 
share your experiences when you return home, to 
maintain contact with people you meet, and to 
keep informed about the country you visit? 
* Are you allowing sufficient lead time when 
opting for alternative local travel services? 
* Do you inform your travel agent/tour organizer 
about your concerns for justice in travel? 
North America Coordinating Center for 
Responsible Tourism; 45¢ stamped self- 
addressed envelope for more information about 
the work of The Center. 
SASE for resource list of basic materials and 
reprints available from The Center. 
Responsible Traveling Newsletter, Betty Stott, 
Editor; $10/year (four issues) 
All from: The Center for Responsible Tourism 
2 Kensington Road, San Anselmo, CA 94960 
(415) 258-6594 
New World of Travel 1990 
There are thousands of travel books in print. | 
wouldn't be exaggerating much to say I’ve seen 
them all. This is the only one of them that has lots 
of tricks and savvy tips new to me. It’s a menu of 
alternative, rewarding traveling possibilities, by the 
guy who invented “Europe on $5 a Day” in the 
1950s. Mostly it’s about practical and inspirational 
ways to go, and not about what to see. For the 
past several years Whole Earth has wanted to do 
a Whole Earth Travel Catalog. Now we don’t have 
to. This book did it, and did it superbly. 
—Kevin Kelly 
SUMMER CAMPS FOR ADULTS 
Sierra Club “Base Camps,” Sample base camp 
stays planned for 1989: in the Tahoe Forest of 
California/Nevada, near early Indian habitats, 
abandoned mines, and ghost towns; near the 
Donner Pass amid majestic rock cathedrals and 
trout-stocked lakes; on a Navajo reservation near 
Canyon de Chelly National Monument of Arizona; 
in a nationally protected area of fossil beds in 
Oregon; in the densely wooded Monongahela For- 
est of West Virginia. Though the accent through- 
out is on fun — the sheer pleasure of removing 
oneself for a week or two to an untouched, 
untrammeled wilderness — participants (of all 
ages, and including families) have the added 
opportunity to “network” with other kindred sorts, 
the dedicated environmentalists of our nation. 
Hike to the fan- 
tastic spires of 
the Cuernos 
* 
(horns) of Paine 
| 
on our Patagonian 
& 
Wildlands Safari. 
§ 
Journeys 
For fourteen years, these folks have offered ad- 
venture tours led by local residents. A portion of 
your land fee goes to the Earth Preservation Fund 
which is used to help nurture the land and the way 
of life of the people you are visiting. Fancy stuff is 
not what you're there for; you may get dirty. 
The Nature Conservancy 
In addition to their highly effective environmental 
work (see p. 111), The Nature Conservancy offers 
trips for folks who wish to see what needs to be, or 
is being, conserved. They offer inspiring field trips 
and tours to a variety of locations in the States and 
Latin America. Trips are led by Conservancy mem- 
bers and local guides who of course make sure 
that the proper sensitivities and attitudes are cele- 
brated. Many find that it is a special pleasure to 
travel and learn in a group with similar concerns. 
You'll be helping out a bit, too; part of your fee is a 
contribution to Nature Conservancy’s efforts. —JB 
The Nature Conservancy; $15/year member- 
ship (includes bimonthly magazine & newsletter 
which lists field trips & tours in the states) 
The Nature Conservancy’s International 
Trips; Information free from: Sarah Bolon, 
Latin America Division 
Both from: The Nature Conservancy 
1815 N. Lynn Street 
Arlington, VA 22209; (703) 841-5300 
ECUADOR + GALAPAGOS ISLANDS, 
Aug. 1, Sept. 5. Visit the environmental education 
center and the montane forest of Pasachoa 
Reserve. Contrast this with the jungle world of 
Cuyabeno Reserve, an unspoiled tropical rain- 
forest in the Amazon basin. Extend your adventure 
to the Galapagos Islands. Enjoy land tortoises, 
magnificent frigate birds, and perhaps a waved 
albatross in this tremendous archipelago. $2598. 
Galapagos extension, $1398. 
Each trip is 
hosted by a 
Conservancy 
representative 
and includes 
visits or lec- 
tures by local 
conservation 
experts, as well 
as the services 
of a trained 
in-country 
naturalist. 
a
