68 AUTOMOBILES 
By J. Baldwin 
A FEW YEARS BACK, | attended a public 
debate between the founder of a renowned world- 
saving organization and the CEO of a coal mining 
company. The Bad Guy won the toss, took the 
mike and said to the large audience of obviously 
hostile adults, “Before we start, I’d like to know 
how many of you would be willing to give up your 
automobiles right now.” A loud cheer went up, 
most hands waving madly in the affirmative. The 
miner stared maybe a full minute, waiting for the 
tumult to subside. Then he said quietly, with just a 
hint of a sneer in his voice, “I’m not about to waste 
an evening talking to a roomful of liars.” And then 
he walked out. 
He had our number. Though we may like to 
appear eco-chic, we are not about to give up cars, 
nor will folks in developing countries give up their 
dream of owning a car. There’s good reason for 
this: cars do the best job of transporting us and 
our belongings from exactly where we are to 
exactly where we want to go, at the time, velocity 
and route of our choice, and with relative security 
from assault by weather or brigand. Cars offer rare 
privacy. History shows that people are quite willing 
to pay for the auto’s advantages. No existing or 
proposed public transportation system can even 
approach them. In fact, one of Henry Ford’s main 
reasons for developing the Model T was to give 
ordinary citizens — especially farmers — cheap 
transportation that would free them from the 
tyranny of mass transit (rail) rates, routes, and 
schedules. 
When people decry the evils of automobiles, what 
they mostly mean is that they’d like to alleviate the 
deleterious effects of cars. Cars gobble resources 
and pollute beyond belief: a typical late-model car 
dumps its\own weight in CO2, a greenhouse gas, 
into the air each year. Cars kill people and animals 
in large numbers; accidents are the leading cause 
of death for U.S citizens under age 45. Roads — 
the other half of the car — eat land (often arable) 
and disturb water runoff patterns. There are 
counties where half of the land area is paved. 
Freeways concrete about 
25 acres a mile, and 
require about 250,000 tons of gravel — which has 
‘to come from somewhere — to do it. 
Some of the most grievous problems arise be- 
cause of the overweening power of the auto indus- 
try. The average of estimates from a number of 
sources shows that about half of the North Ameri- 
can workforce depends upon the auto industry 
directly or indirectly for its paycheck. This does not 
count workers using automobiles for commuting or 
as part of their work. This means that any social 
changes involving automobiles will be subject to 
severe political manipulation. 
There are no easy answers to any of this. Indeed, 
| recommend that you turn a very sceptical ear to 
those who preface a suggested solution with the 
naive phrase “.. . all we have to dois...” or the 
more insistent “we must.” Any simple answer, no 
matter how righteous, has left out something 
important. Here’s an example: you often hear 
people badmouth new cars because they are 
complex and difficult to work on at home. (Indeed, 
this Ecolog doesn’t list do-it-yourself books 
because there aren't any amateur-useful ones for 
new models.) Modern cars cost more to fix, too. 
The friendly folks at the neighborhood gas station 
no longer possess the specialized knowledge 
needed to repair local citizens’ cars. Alas and woe, 
things used to be better. Or were they? 
Such laments ignore that the old cars were simple 
because they had no pollution controls. Their lusty 
guzzling was directed by crude mechanisms. They 
were overweight, yet crash and handling safety 
were marginal. Labor costs were low, and so was 
the standard of living of many mechanics, who 
were often treated as low-skill hicks. The myth 
of sturdiness is simplistic too; if the old petropigs 
were so tough, why don’t we see more of them 
today? That’s quite a bit to leave out. True 
ignorance. 
So there are a lot of partial answers. “Drive less” is 
the most obvious one; I’ve cut my driving 50% by 
commuting by computer. (I’m editing this book at 
home.) But it’s difficult to get by with no access at 
all to a car because most of our nation has been 
built in a way that requires one. 
“Buy the car you need” is another good play. Many 
Americans buy a car that fits their vacation needs 
better than their everyday needs. It’s silly to do 
your shopping in a van whose spaciousness is 
used only two weeks a year. (It’s usually cheaper 
to rent one for vacations.) If you need space often, 
a station wagon or one of the minivans is a good 
choice. Wagons are just cars with big trunks, and 
so cost about the same, in money and pollution 
per mile, as the sedans from which they are 
derived. But vans are not especially frugal to run 
or maintain. Worse, corporate villainy of the worst 
sort has lobbytwisted the law so that minivans 
(and pickups) do not have to conform to many 
safety standards required of cars. They don’t even 
have to have that chintzy little third stoplight which 
has been proven to deter rearenders. Do car- 
makers believe that vans and pickups are never 
followed by careless drivers? Of course not, but 
the special logic employed by automakers decrees 
that if vans and pickups conformed to the safety 
regulations required of cars, the government 
would consider them to be the passenger cars 
they really are. In that case, their poor economy 
would reduce the average overall corporate 
passenger car fuel mileage standards mandated 
by law, (“CAFE”) which most manufacturers could 
then not meet because of their continuing policy of 
selling fat, high-profit, gas-guzzler, passenger car 
models. Got that? By the way, the largest-selling 
single model of vehicle of any sort is the full-size 
Ford pickup, a machine with serious potential for 
environmental mayhem. Studies have shown that 
most pickups are used more for image than for 
hauling, making them expensive, dirty toys. 
Assuming you need a new car, how do you 
choose one? First, make sure you really do need a 
new one. The cheapest way to drive, in miles per 
dollar, is to use an oldie-but-goodie until it quits. In 
addition to being cheap to buy and run, the old 
hog makes full use of the “embodied energy” in- 
vested in it during its manufacture. You might also 
keep in mind that the cost of a complete overhaul 
is probably less than the interest on a new car 
loan. If the old car’s hunger and pollution smack 
unbearably of sin, consider that the pollution 
caused by the making of a new car may well be 
more than that caused by the using of an old one. 
If your decision is to buy a new vehicle, you are 
faced with a vast but rather sad choice; no sen- 
sible “eco-car” or urban vehicle is yet available. 
Indeed, car companies are vigorously lobbying to 
reduce the standards now mandated. Obviously 
you are either going to have to wait, or make do 
once again from what's available. Take the time to 
investigate all the models in your desired body 
style and price range. Check Consumer Reports 
(p. 65) for their opinion on matters of economy, 
reliability and safety — matters difficult to ascertain 
from personal or magazine road tests. | would not 
buy any new car — especially not a small one — 
without air bags for both front passengers. How 
would you like riding beside a bag-protected 
driver, knowing you were not so shielded? It’s not 
a matter of cost — the lowliest Chrysler-built car 
has a bag for the driver (only), the same specifica- 
tion as a $38,000 “highly advanced” Lexus! There 
VOLVO 
LCP 2000 
When it became obvious that the classic “petro- 
pig” big cars were doomed to extinction, a few of 
the more alert auto companies developed proto- 
types of “eco-cars” as a response to future fuel 
crisis, and environmental, or safety regulations. 
These cars served both to test public opinion and 
to give the manufacturers and their complex 
system of suppliers a feel for the technology 
required if the need became acute. Experience is 
important; one of the reasons that American auto 
manufacturers have taken a beating from over- 
seas competition is that until recently, manage- 
ment did not have the training and attitude needed 
to design for efficiency, or for that matter, to be 
efficient. Worse, the old guard could not be quickly 
replaced with new blood because no suitable 
people were in the educational pipeline. Ameri- 
cans had become such thoughtless energy 
wastrels that inefficiency was considered normal, if 
it was considered at all. Today, some companies 
eS 
e 
= 
see 
