%WEA — Available from Whole Earth Access, see p. 2. 
A 
VITA 
For 25 years, Volunteers in Technical Assistance 
has been a reliable source of expert advice and an 
experienced stack of publications. You don’t join 
VITA as you would the Peace Corps, for instance, 
but you can make your special knowledge avail- 
able through them. Their record of action is 
inspiring; see for yourself in VITA News. —JB 
VITA News, Margaret 
Crouch, Ed.; $15/year, (4 
issues), from: Volunteers 
in Technical Assitance 
1815 N. Lynn St., # 200 
Arlington, VA 22209 
(703) 276-1800 
Packet radio allows commu- 
nication in areas where the 
only power available is batteries or solar cells. 
Each station in a packet radio system consists of a 
personal computer, radio transceiver, terminal 
node controller (TNC) — a modem-like device — a 
printer, and an antenna. Messages are entered 
into the computer. In swift bursts of energy, the 
TNC breaks the message into small pieces 
(packets) that are transmitted by radio to the 
receiving computers. There, another TNC decodes 
the packet, which appears on the computer screen 
and can be printed. 
Hamid Ali Mohamed sends the first packet radio 
message in Sudan. The radio network was installed 
and local operators were trained by VITA Vol- 
unteers Mark Oppenheim and David Henderson. 
APPROPRIATE TECHNOLOGY 93 
TOOL 
Netherlands-based TOOL is another lively techni- 
cal assistance organization working all over the 
world. A written description of their work would 
sound a lot like ITDG, though I’m sure that mem- 
bers of both groups would be quick to point out 
differences. From what I’ve seen, there is no 
difference in competence. TOOL maintains a huge 
reference library, and 500-item publications list of 
interest to those actually working in the field. Their 
TOOL 
Catalog free from: 
TOOL-Reference Centre 
Entrepotdok 68a/69a 
1018 AD Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands; (0) 20-264409 
AT-SOURCE; Dfl25/year 
(4 issues) from: AT- 
SOURCE, P. O. BOX 41 
6700 AA Wageningen 
The Netherlands 
Source 
quarterly magazine — AT Source — features 
extensive, detailed background information articles 
on problems needing and receiving attention. A 
student of mine found that the March 89 issue on 
the world firewood shortage was the best overview 
available. TOOL publishes in English. —JB 
ees 
A 
aa 
When cultivating new land, the rural population have 
since time immemorial spared specific valuable trees. 
* 
Bridging the Global Gap 
The first comprehensive guide that connects you 
to the many groups engaged in people-to-people 
exchanges between the First and Third Worlds. 
The authors cover the spectrum of popular ini- 
tiatives: alternative trade organizations, sister-city 
programs, technical assistance programs for the 
Third World, peace groups, alternative tourism and 
more. The first part of the book consists of first- 
person accounts by veterans of grassroots global 
exchanges, and the final third is a well-designed 
resource guide to organizations. Global Exchange, 
the organization that spawned this guidebook, has 
performed a mighty service to anyone who, in the 
Bridging the Global Gap 
Medea Benjamin and Andrea 
Freedman; 1989; 336 pp. 
$11.95 ($13.75 postpaid) 
from: Global Exchange 
2141 Mission Street #202 
San Francisco, CA 94110 
(415) 255-7296 
%*WEA 
ifda dossier 
This little journal is a forum for ideas and tech- 
niques intended to improve the lot of those living 
under unfortunate circumstances. The articles 
tend to address issues you don’t see in slick mag- 
azines and university papers, the sort of things 
comfortable people don’t often think about. Lots to 
learn here. Even the most humble article will 
reveal to most USA readers the naive simpleminda- 
edness of our worldview. —JB 
e 
The “carnivorous” fishermen of the coasts of Gu- 
jarat and Maharashtra, once considered as the 
lowest of the low, devoted the fruits of their bhakti 
to the creation of “floating temples” or matsyagan- 
face of dismal news about rainforests and poverty, 
longs to stop wringing hands and do something to 
connect to the world beyond our borders. There’s 
nothing else like it available. —Richard Schauffler 
e 
The internationalism we describe in this book is 
based on a healthy combination of honest self-in- 
terest mixed with deep compassion. It recognizes 
that the interests of the Third World poor coincide 
with the interests of the majority of North Ameri- 
cans. Less poverty abroad would mean fewer 
companies abandoning the United States in 
search of cheap labor; higher standards of living in 
Third World countries would mean more markets 
for our goods; greater democracy overseas would 
mean less U.S. tax dollars wasted on military aid 
to repressive regimes. As the late President of 
Mozambique, Samora Machel, stated, “Interna- 
tional solidarity is not an act of charity. It is an act 
of unity between allies fighting on different terrains 
toward the same objectives. The foremost of these 
objectives is to aid the development of humanity to 
the highest level possible.” 
dhas. The name refers to the first incarnation of 
God Vishnu as a fish. Here again, the idea started 
with a number of fishermen (Dada calls them 
sagarputras or sons of the sea) who knew only 
how to fish and to navigate. Dada suggested that 
they offer their bhakti by setting a day’s fish of 
their catch in a month for buying motorised boats, 
tools and tackles. 
Although the experiment is only 8 years old, the 
“impersonal wealth,” thus produced, has already 
enabled the fishermen to buy over 14 boats. 
ifda dossier; $32/year (6 issues) 
from: IFDA, 4 Place du Marché, 
1260 Nyon, Switzerland 
Phone 41 (22) 61 82 81 
Micro-Hydropower 
Sourcebook 
We review this book as an example of the current 
crop of incredibly detailed and experienced 
technical books now available. This one is admit- 
tedly above average, so in addition to being a 
peerless presentation of the subject, it serves as 
an inspiration to other authors. With Sourcebook 
in hand, just about any intelligent, English-literate, 
shop-savvy person could manage the develop- 
ment of a small hydropower system. The basic 
engineering is done in layperson’s terms, along 
with a little lesson in how to think about it. The 
drawings show what you need to know, and they 
don't waffle over difficult details that must be right. 
(There is ample opportunity for disaster and 
chagrin in the small hydropower business.) | don’t 
think I’ve ever seen a better working manual, 
especially for something so complex. —JB 
Micro-Hydropower 
Sourcebook, Allen R. 
Inversin; 1986; 285 pp. 
$32.50 ($36.50 post- 
paid) from: NRECA 
International Foundation 
Attn.: Sourcebook, 1800 
Massachusetts Ave. N.W. 
Washington, DC, 20036 
(202) 857-9500 
HYDROPOWER 
MICRO-HOIRCEBOOK 
oe 4 
AN 
vet 
: " at sae san 
- 
A Multi Purpose Power Unit runner being 
fabricated, Kathmandu, Nepal. 
