100 CORPORATE ETHICS 
EEE 
RE 
Corporate 
Environmentalism 
By Art Kleiner 
Dauront's chairman makes speeches, proclaiming 
himself to be an environmentalist. Weyerhauser 
boasts, in its advertising, about the number of 
trees it plants. Royal Dutch/Shell funds a group of 
energy conservation activists coordinating efforts 
to respond to global warming. And this year, more 
than one major corporation tried to become a full- 
scale sponsor of Earth Day 1990 — as if it were the 
Superbowl or the Olympics. In the wake of 
incidents like Valdez and the Boesky/ Milken 
indictments, it’s easy to be cynical about the 
intentions behind corporate environmentalism. 
Indeed, many efforts by large companies begin as 
nothing more than public relations and damage 
control. But some efforts go further. 
A movement towards corporate environmentalism 
has existed for at least a decade. It’s diffuse and 
scattered; people in different companies are rarely 
aware of each other. Often, the movement oper- 
ates semi-covertly, fueled by individuals who 
believe that they can influence their part of the 
firm to halt a bad practice or start a good one — 
usually in some small way. In some cases, it takes 
years for that change to take effect. While few 
corporations (if any) can yet be called “environ- 
mentalist” in a way that would satisfy, say, Green- 
peace, it is nonetheless becoming clear that there 
are ways to prompt even the largest corporations 
to behave more responsibly. Public criticism and 
boycotts, like that against Exxon after Valdez, tend 
to lead to stonewalling; it works better to find the 
people who are ready for a change of heart, and to 
help them deal with the cultural contradictions 
between the profit motive and ecological values. 
The tragedy of corporate-environmentalist dis- 
agreement emerged from cultural differences. 
Corporations typically had put ill-trained public 
relations flacks in charge of environmental issues, 
or over-trained engineers; the depth of their 
training made it inevitable that they would see 
environmentalists as flakes and blowhards. 
Environmentalists (especially those dealing with 
issues like toxic waste) had often been wounded 
by birth defects in their children, or cancer in their 
neighborhood, or the loss of a beloved place. They 
came in fear and bitterness, which made it difficult 
to realize that most individuals in corporations see 
themselves as fundamentally moral and respon- 
sible — and are willing to act to live up to that 
morality. The two groups met in courtrooms, 
where no one could admit fallibility for fear of 
making the company (or group) they represented 
more vulnerable. Nor could they talk frankly, as 
people — for fear of being co-opted. 
Stalemates like this end slowly, and only by giving 
up the need for the other side to give in. But we 
live in an era of stalemate-ending. Consider, for 
instance, the Dow Chemical Company. In the 
1970s and early 1980s, Dow Chemical was one of 
the most antagonistic corporations to environmen- 
talism in America. They refused to release statis- 
tics on their smokestack emissions, and sued the 
EPA for flying airplanes overhead. Dow execu- 
tives spread rumors that Greenpeace workers had 
syphilis; and fought bitterly with Oregon residents 
over responsibility for dioxin poisoning associated 
with their herbicide 2,4,5-T. (Carol Van Strum 
described the heartbreaking battle in her book, “A 
Bitter Fog.”) Beginning in 1982, however, there 
was a dioxin scare in Dow’s small Michigan home- 
town, Midland. At first, Dow engineers pooh- 
poohed the danger; they had, in fact, triggered the 
See Also. 
. 
. Values, pages 98-99. 
Earth Communications 
Office (ECO) - 
Environmental Media 
Association (EMA) 
When you see an environmental activist character 
on thirtysomething, you know something's up. 
Who decided to put them into the plot? Who 
checked the lines to make sure they weren't non- 
sense? Who organized a superstar trek to the 
rainforest for a firsthand look at what they've 
agreed to help save? Something has changed in 
Hollywood. At work are two young organizations. 
EMA seems aimed mostly at influencing and 
educating producers and other top management; 
ECO seems to include everybody right down to 
the floor sweepers. Both seem effective in their 
goal of assisting the entertainment industry in 
promoting environmental concerns within itself and 
the public. Even better, both groups seem able to 
tell the difference between faddish eco-chic and 
the real thing. What a great idea! 
—JB [Suggested by Esther Feldman] 
For more information write to: 
Earth Communications Office (ECO) 
1925 Century Park East, Suite 2300 
Los Angeles, CA 90067 
Environmental Media Association (EMA) 
10536 Culver Boulevard, Culver City, CA 90232 
scare by developing a method of measuring much 
smaller quantities of the chemical waste than had 
ever been measured before. But the reaction did 
not die down; and Dow executives, seen as villains 
for the first time by their own neighbors, found 
themselves changing their attitudes. 
I have interviewed Dow executives and environ- 
mentalists who dealt with them, and I don’t 
pretend to know for certain whether Dow is now 
an environmentalist company. Some policies are 
certainly different: Dow now invites the EPA to 
tour their plants. Before designing a new chemical 
plant, they seek out local environmental groups. 
And they have become deeply involved in plastic 
recycling research, and in lobbying for heavier 
government restrictions on toxic waste. On the 
other hand, they still manufacture herbicides, and 
they admit that their campaign for plastic recy- 
cling is a way to stave off restrictions against 
plastic packaging (like those passed recently in 
Portland, Oregon). 
Several environmentalists (including Carol Van 
Strum) have told me that they believe the new 
Dow attitude is all lip service and public relations. 
Others have praised Dow for substantive changes. 
I happen to believe that part of the problem is 
their “Great Things” commercials, which are so 
slickly emotional that they seem insincere. But the 
Dow people I’ve talked to are sincere. The ques- 
tion is, how effective can they be at tackling the 
truly difficult questions — such as whether 
herbicides or some plastics should be manufac- 
tured in the first place? 
Of course, there are ulterior motives for some 
corporate involvement — environmental cleanup 
is profitable (though that’s not one of Dow’s busi- 
nesses), and the inundation of coastal cities with 
seawater is presumably bad for business. Behind 
the stereotypes on both sides is a deeper truth; no 
company can prosper without long-lasting eco- 
logical safety. You don’t have to be, as business 
people say, a rocket scientist to realize the prin- 
ciple. The trick is getting the large firms to act on 
it, and to provide more communities that encour- 
age mainstream corporate people and environ- 
mentalists to talk to each other. Both sides need to 
educate each other. 
EL 
eae ee 
Our Common Future 
A United Nations Commission proposes that 
without economic growth, there can be no environ- 
mental protection. Nor without environmental 
protection can there be economic growth. The 
“Brundtland Report” (named after Norwegian 
President Gro Brundtland, who chaired the 
commission) is less valuable for its worthwhile 
overview of global environmental problems than 
for its influence. In many countries (not the United 
States), councils now meet to figure out ways in 
which industries can assume some of the respon- 
sibility for handling environmental problems. The 
Brundtland vision of the future is impossibly 
utopian; local countries around the world are to 
bring together citizens’ groups, government 
agencies, and industry, and work diligently to raise 
everyone's standard of living and natural purity 
simultaneously — outflanking local corruption, and 
keeping cultural diversity intact. It’s hard to believe 
it could happen. It’s sobering to read what the 
Brundtland commission expects will take place if 
humanity doesn’t achieve that impossible goal. 
And it’s inspiring to read the reasons why they 
believe we can. —Art Kleiner 
Our Common Future, World 
Commission on Environment 
& Development; 1987; 400 pp. 
$10.95 ($12.95 postpaid) 
from: Oxford University Press 
2001 Evans Rd., Cary, NC 
27513; (800) 451-7556 **WEA 
A world in which poverty and inequity are endemic 
will always be prone to ecological and other crises. 
Sustainable development requires meeting the 
basic needs of all and extending to all the opportu- 
nity to satisfy their aspirations for a better life. 
... Perceived needs are socially and culturally 
determined, and sustainable development requires 
the promotion of values that encourage consump- 
tion standards that are within the bounds of the 
ecologically possible and to which all can reasona- 
bly aspire. 
ERODE MRI iS et EN DE oe Pee Be oN | 
Normal Accidents 
It's your worst fears confirmed: accidents in com- 
plex technological systems are inevitable, unpre- 
ventable, and must, like a little dishonesty, be 
considered a normal fact of life. The sociologist 
author makes a worrisomely good case for this 
view, though his credibility is superficially tarnished 
by poor science editing and careless proofreading. 
Put aside those annoyances, and you'll find ample 
proof that dangerous technologies are not entirely 
controllable, even if the folks in charge are models 
of social and environmental responsibility. Horren- 
dous examples — including nuclear — are 
detailed, but they aren’t nearly so disturbing as the 
dishonesty that accompanies disasters. Ass- 
covering prevarications are expected. The less- 
expected intellectual dishonesty short-circuits the 
learning process that can prevent the same sort of 
thing from happening again even when profits and 
prestige are not at stake. The question is whether 
certain technologies should be permitted at all if 
the consequences Of failure are drastic. The 
answer is no, of course, but the author offers few 
solutions. We'd better get to work. —JB 
Normal Accidents 
Charles Perrow; 1985 
386 pp.; $14.95 ($17.95 post- 
paid) from: Harper & Row, 
Attn: Order Dept., Keystone 
Industrial Park, Scranton, PA 
18512; (800) 242-7737 #WEA 
