88 RECYCLING 
Profit from Pollution 
Prevention 
Bucky Fuller said for years that pollution is just 
good stuff in the wrong place at the wrong time. 
This Canadian book offers hard evidence that not 
only can many pollutants be controlled but that the 
control can produce income. Experience has 
proven over and over that without economic 
incentive, polluters won’t do much. Turns out that 
even with economic incentive, they won't be much 
inclined to do much until convinced. This book 
examines a host of common industrial polluting 
materials and practices. Alleviation tactics are 
discussed. For many nasties, successful case 
studies are presented. If you need to deal with a 
polluter, this book should be included in your 
homework. —JB 
Profit from Pollution 
Prevention, Monica E. 
Campbell & William M. 
Glenn; 1982; 404 pp. 
$25 (postage & handling 
fees depend on location) 
from: Firefly Books 
250 Sparks Ave. 
Willowdale, Ontario 
M2H 2S4, Canada 
(416) 499-8412 *®WEA 
Textiles 
Every year, millions of pounds of sizing chemicals 
are generated as a result of desizing operations. 
Size chemicals, which are applied to warp yarn to 
protect them during the weaving operation, 
represent a valuable material that may be recov- 
ered and then re-used in the slashing operation. 
Spokesmen for the Canadian textile industry 
suggest that most Canadian plants tend to use 
starch as the predominant sizing agent. In the 
United States, use of polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) and 
carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) are becoming 
increasingly prevalent. 
The J.P. Stevens Company, one of North 
American’s larger textile companies, has been 
recovering PVA size for about seven years at its 
Clemson, South Carolina plant. 
At the Clemson plant, the size recovery technique 
is based on ultrafiltration technology (also known 
as hyperfiltration). 
According to Gaston County (Stanley, North 
Carolina), the heart of their ultrafiltration system is 
a carbon tube/membrane filter which provides 
mechanical separation of liquid systems according 
to molecular or particulate size. The membrane 
consists of an inorganic coating mechanically 
bonded to a porous carbon tube. Both membrane 
and support tube possess a high degree of resis- 
tance to chemical and abrasion degradation, and 
tolerate wide pH and temperature ranges. 
Carbon Tube with Ultrafiltration Loop 
X 
permeate ~ 
2 
y,; 
fo) 
<> Carbon 
OQ 
concentrate 
support tube 
porous 
-carbon 
particles 
inorganic 
sS 
membrane 
WE alt Know that recycling of pretty near every- 
thing has got to happen sooner or later. Who is 
going to do it? How is it going to be paid for? (We 
know quite well who is going to pay, right?) How 
do we deal with vested interests — which appar- 
ently include the Mafia in some locales — that 
stand to lose money and power if recycling 
becomes, as it must, “the way we normally do 
things”? This is all being decided right now in the 
ponderous, messy dance that eventually gets 
things sorted out in this country. —JB 
Garbage Reincarnation 
This classroom manual on garbage recycling is 
the gem at the bottom of the trash heap and like 
all great “activity” books for kids, a book every 
adult will learn tons from. The authors are champi- 
ons of human energy over the false application of 
high technology. —Peter Warshall 
Garbage Reincarnation 
Sonoma County Com- 
se 
munity Recycling Center 
|» 
GARBALE 
1982; 51 pp.; $5.95 post- 
paid from: Sonoma 
County Community 
Recycling Center 
PrOreoxmacs 
Santa Rosa, CA 95402 
(707) 584-8666 
Sanitary Landfills 
Twenty million tons of residential and commercial 
garbage enter the waste stream each year in 
California, and this amount is increasing each 
year. The majority of this is deposited into sanitary 
landfills where it is buried at a tremendous cost. 
This garbage, or resource, is, for all practical 
purposes, lost forever. 
things to think about... 
... Where does all your garbage go? 
. 
.. why does it go there? 
... IS leachate creating a problem at your /andfill? 
Resource Recycling - 
Plastics Recycling Update 
This magazine is aimed at big-time recycling 
operators, government officials, and industries 
developing products that make recycling easier. 
The harsh facts of recycling economics are 
especially well attended, as they must be if large 
changes in public attitude are to be implemented. 
The same folks put out the monthly 6 page 
newsletter, Plastics Recycling Update, which 
keeps readers current in that rapidly developing 
field. (Its unfortunate price is typical of this breed 
of very-low-circulation specialty papers). Maga- 
zines and newsletters of this sort are a sure sign 
that recycling is becoming a major industry at last. 
—JB 
Resource Recycling 
Jerry Powell, Editor 
$42/year (12 issues) 
Plastics Recycling 
Update; $85/year 
(12 issues) 
Both from: 
Resource Recycling, Inc. 
P.O. Box 10540 
Portland, OR 97210 
(503) 227-1319 
Plastics Waste Controls 
Newark, New Jersey is one of the first communi- 
ties in the U. S. to implement a ban on polystyrene 
packaging use in restaurants. Some 1,700 local 
businesses have received an education packet 
listing firms that sell paper and degradable 
packaging. 
Several retailers are taking advantage of a 
recycling exemption which allows the outlet to 
escape the ban if it recycles 60 percent of its 
waste. Five McDonald’s restaurants are trying this 
tactic, with collected plastics destined for Polysty- 
rene Recycling Inc. in Brooklyn, New York. In 
BioCycle 
BioCycle is close to my feces-fertilizer-farm-food- 
feces revolving vision. It features my favorite 
Compost Guru, Clarence Golueke. | once thought 
their bumper sticker should read: “Have You 
Hugged Your Humus Today?” Herein, the creators 
of America’s long-term wealth. —Peter Warshall 
BioCycle, Jerome Gold- 
stein, Editor; $55/year 
(12 issues) from: 
BioCycle 
Box 351 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
REGIONAL ROUNDUP 
St. Petersburg, Florida 
YARD WASTE RECYCLING 
PROGRAM GRINDS OUT 
7,000 TONS OF MULCH 
Tom Lehmann, Environmental Sanitation Services 
Manager for St. Petersburg, is proud of the 
efficient way 7,000 tons of yard debris (“whatever 
residents can scrape up”) are being processed 
into partially-decomposed mulch. A tub grinder 
(Mighty Giant) is moved as needed to any of the 
six dropoff sites, so material can be run through 
the machine prior to transport to a central wind- 
rowing site. Windrows are 8 to 10 feet high, 25 
feet wide. “We windrow primarily to get rid of weed 
seeds, not to generate a finished compost,” says 
Lehmann. After three months, mulch material is 
put in a storage pile, then transferred back to the 
dropoff sites for distribution to municipal agencies 
and residents. 
e 
Scott County, Minnesota 
RECYCLING WHITE GOODS 
When an amendment to the county’s solid waste 
ordinance prohibited land disposal of appliances in 
1988, Scott County didn’t leave its residents 
looking for a place to dispose of their old water 
heaters, refrigerators and clothes dryers. Instead, 
the county worked with its only landfill, Louisville 
Landfill, and helped to fund a recycling program 
that last year processed approximately 3,000 ap- 
pliances. 
For $10, residents and private haulers can take 
major appliances to the landfill where they are 
stockpiled until being removed by Major Appliance 
of St. Paul. Major Appliance ships them to a proc- 
essing facility where serviceable appliances are 
reconditioned. The rest are shredded and the 
materials sold to materials markets. Under a new 
program effective July 1, 1989, any hauler that 
.
provides the county with a receipt from an ap- 
proved recycler will be reimbursed $15 per 
appliance by the county. 
Al Frechette, Scott County’s Environmental Health 
program manager feels that by providing the 
reimbursement, haulers will be able to pass the 
savings onto their customers and provide collec- 
tion services for $5 per appliance or less and keep 
the material out of ditches and illegal dumps. 
