96 TECHNOLOGY 
Buckminster Fuller 
Buckminster Fuller is often represented — not 
always positively — as the ultimate champion of 
technology. He insisted that intelligently deployed, 
efficient technology is the only means to a healthy, 
fulfilling life for all humans, and that this can be ac- 
complished even for greater populations than we 
now have (see page 9). He called for “comprehen- 
sive, anticipatory design.” To demonstrate the 
possibilities, he developed a number of resource- 
efficient artifacts, including his famous geodesic 
domes which shelter a space with only 1/50th the 
material of conventional structures. (Examples on 
page 82.) 
Bucky's everything-is-connected-to-everything 
vision and detailed language can make much of 
his writing and lecturing difficult to follow if you are 
new to it. I'd start with a book about him, Buck- 
minster Fuller. Next you might try the easily 
understood Critical Path, a book that chronicles 
human evolution to the present, then outlines the 
path that we must take for species survival. To 
understand the underlying principles, you'll work 
very hard reading and comprehending Syner- 
getics 1 and 2, but you now have help in A Fuller 
Explanation by Amy Edmondson who was 
Fuller's collaborator and mathematician at the time 
of his death in 1983. There are many other books 
by and about him, as well as a video and an as- 
tounding 57 hours of taped lectures called Every- 
thing | Know. All this, along with lots of other 
artifacts and a newsletter — Trimtab — is avail- 
able from the Buckminster Fuller Institute. Many of 
Bucky’s insights are proving to be critical and even 
prescient, often being adapted without credit these 
days. We give him credit though, as one of the 
inspirers of the original Whole Earth Catalog. 
—JB 
Buckminster Fuller 
Robert Snyder, Editor 
1980; 218 pp. 
$15.95 ($18.95 postpaid) 
Critical Path 
R. Buckminster Fuller 
1981; 471 pp. 
$10.95 ($13.95 postpaid) 
’Synergetics 
R. Buckminster Fuller 
with E. J. Applewhite 
1975; 876 pp. 
$13.95 ($16.95 postpaid) 
Synergetics 2 
R. Buckminster Fuller 
19792 592i p) 
$13.95 ( $16.95 postpaid) 
A Fuller Explanation 
Amy C. Edmondson 
1987; 302 pp. 
$37.50 ($42.50 postpaid) 
All above also WEA 
Everything | Know 
Seven six-cassette volumes 
$35 per volume ($38 post- 
paid) $225 complete set 
($232 postpaid) 
Trimtab Bulletin 
Included with $20/year 
membership in Buckminster 
Fuller Institute (4 issues ) 
All from: 
Buckminster Fuller Institute 
1743 S. La Cienega Blvd. 
Los Angeles, CA 90035 
(213) 837-7710 
I’m sure none of you know what you’re doing with 
your supper. All you know is you've loaded it in, 
and you're not saying, “I’m going to send some of 
it off to this gland and some to that, and tomorrow 
morning |’m going to grow some hair.” I'll simply 
assert all of you are almost completely automated 
and always have been. And you talk about 
automation as though it were something new and 
rather scary. —Buckminster Fuller 
e 
A sphere is the only shape in which every axis is a 
neutral axis, which is to say, a sphere’s width is 
the same in every orientation. Therefore, this 
shape resists compression from any direction; it 
cannot buckle. Hence the ball bearing. This 
tangible example illustrates the ideal design for 
compression. 
What about tension? Evidence of longer, thinner, 
and ever more resilient tension materials suggests 
that there’s no inherent limit to length. 
—A Fuller Explanation 
e 
Mast in the Earth: In his primary regard for com- 
pressional structuring, man inserts a solid mast 
into a hole in the “solid” Earth and rams it in as a 
solid continuity of the unitary solid Earth. In order 
to keep the wind from getting hold of the top of the 
mast and breaking it when the hurricane rages, he 
puts tension members in the directions of the 
various winds acting at the ends of the levers to 
keep it from being pulled over. The set of tension 
stays is triangulated from the top of the masthead 
to the ground, thus taking hold of the extreme 
ends of the potential mast-lever at the point of 
highest advantage against motion. In this way, 
tension becomes the helper. But these tensions 
are secondary structuring actions. They are also 
secondary adjuncts in man’s solidly built, compres- 
sional-continuity ships. He puts in a solid mast and 
then adds tension helpers as shrouds. To man, 
building, Earth, and ship seemed alike, compres- 
sionally continuous. Tension has been secondary 
in all man’s building and compression has been 
primary, for he has always thought of compression 
as solid. Compression is that “realistic hard core” 
that men love to refer to, and its reality was 
universal, ergo comprehensive. Man must now 
break out of that habit and learn to play at nature’s 
game where tension is primary and where tension 
explains the coherence of the whole. Compression 
is convenient, very convenient, but always secon- 
dary and discontinuous. —Synergetics 
e 
A human being is what | call a pattern integrity. 
I’m going to take a piece of manila rope, and then 
I’m going to splice into it a piece of cotton rope. | 
splice into the other end of the cotton rope a piece 
of nylon rope. I’m going to make the very simplest 
knot | know, which is to go.around 360 degrees in 
this plane and 360 degrees in that plane. 
I’m not going to pull it tight. There’s the knot. 
The rope has not done this, | have done it to the 
rope. At any rate, | can slide it along . 
. 
. and now 
it's on the nylon — suddenly, it’s off the end. We 
say: “The knot was a pattern integrity.” It wasn’t 
manila, it wasn’t cotton, it wasn’t nylon. 
Cotton, nylon, and manila — any one of them is 
good to let us know its shape, what its pattern 
was; but it wasn’t that: it had an integrity of its 
own. —Buckminster Fuller 
Ce 
Questioning Technology 
Does our industrial techno-society have you 
worried? You should be, and the thirty-one writers 
in this anthology tell you why as they present most 
of the principal anti-tech arguments. We're not 
talking emotional air-head stuff here, either — this 
is the carefully thought-out view. And only the 
negative view; there are no balancing arguments 
or suggestions for correcting the problems. (May- 
be no corrections are possible?) The editors say 
that this collection is intended to be thought- 
provoking. It certainly is. Your worst fears will be 
abundantly confirmed. Perhaps this will goad you 
into appropriate action. 
—JB, unreconstructed technotwit 
Questioning Technology 
John Zerzan & Alice Carnes, 
Editors; 1988; 288 pp.; $11.95 
($13.45 postpaid) from: 
Left Bank Distributors 
4142 Brooklyn NE, Seattle, WA 
98105; (206) 632-5870 **WEA 
All European tradition, Marxism included, has 
conspired to defy the natural order of all things. 
Mother Earth has been abused, the powers have 
been abused, and this cannot go on forever. No 
theory can alter that simple fact. Mother Earth will 
retaliate, the whole environment will retaliate, and 
the abusers will be eliminated. Things come full 
circle, back to where they started. That’s revolu- 
tion. And that’s a prophecy of my people, of the 
Hopi people and of other correct peoples. 
— Russell Means 
e 
The vitality of democratic politics depends on 
people’s willingness to act together — to appear 
before each other in person, speak their minds, 
deliberate, and decide what they will do. This is 
considerably different from the model upheld as a 
breakthrough for democracy: logging onto one’s 
computer, receiving the latest information, and 
sending back a digitized response. No computer 
enthusiasm is more poignant than the faith that the 
personal computer, as it becomes more sophisti- 
cated, cheaper, and more simple to use, will 
become a potent equalizer in society. Presumably, 
ordinary citizens equipped with microcomputers 
will counter the influence of large, computer-based 
organizations. This notion echoes the eighteenth- 
and nineteenth-century revolutionary belief that 
placing firearms in the hands of the people would 
overthrow entrenched authority. But the military 
defeat of the Paris Commune in 1871 made clear 
that arming the people may not be enough. Using 
a personal computer makes one no more powerful 
vis-a-vis, say, the U.S. National Security Agency 
than flying a hang glider establishes a person as a 
match for the US Air Force. —Langdon Winner 
e 
As the rhythm of the workplace speeds up to 
match that of the computer, the resulting increase 
in both load and rate of work, aggravated by the 
reliance on symbols and abstractions that the 
computer demands, creates new physical and 
psychological pressures. —Craig Brod 
Western science would have us all stand in an 
adversarial relationship to our environment. If we 
are to study and control nature, then we must 
distinguish it from ourselves, alienate ourselves 
from it. The limited epistemology and the question- 
able values of science allow us to make that 
separation. AS a consequence we can “do to” 
other entities what we would never think of doing 
to ourselves. If we perceive an “other” to be a part 
of ourselves, then we deprive ourselves of the 
luxuries we have become so dependent upon. 
—Sally Gearhart 
