Nature at 
Work 
The subtle connections, 
cycles, and energy flows 
of ecology are wonder- 
fully elucidated in this 
superior primer. Stu- 
Oe 
ay 
eee 
y Rae A 
( rl 
Ay) EER 
YA 
H 
tins 
wee, J 
mM 
} 
dents and teachers will 
revel in it. —JB 
ae CCE] [pees 
Tous 
October [5 
ar 
ad 
Nature at Work 
(Introducing Ecology) 
British Museum of 
Natural History; 1978; 
84 pp.; $12.95 ($15.95 
postpaid) from: 
Cambridge University Press, 110 Midland Ave., 
Port Chester, NY 10573; (914) 937-9600 **WEA 
Pee SN op PERL: Wien Ui) SL SN 
EP 
Chickadee & OWL 
If you are of the camp that thinks nature learning 
should be amusing, then you and any kids nearby 
will like these lively magazines. Better drawings 
than you might expect, and outstanding photo- 
graphs accompany the lessons. Even the humor is 
pretty good. Chickadee is for the up-to-9 crew; 
OWL takes it from there. —JB 
| 
Chickadee & OWL Magazines, Sylvia Funston, 
Editor, $19/year (10 issues) each from: 
The Young Naturalist 
Foundation, 56 The Espla- 
nade, Suite 304, Toronto, 
Ontario M5E 1A7 Canada 
(416) 868-6001 
bat 
#* 
2 
Pn 
hee 
Light, temperature and rainfall affect 
the amount of energy stored by plants. 
Woodmice eat mainly seeds, buds and 
insects. They store most energy (grow 
and reproduce) between April and Sep- end of April. So the young owls are 
tember. At this time of year there is a 
good supply of plant food and they 
use very little energy keeping warm. 
Tawny owls eat woodmice and other 
small animals. They lay their eggs in 
late March and the young hatch at the 
growing when there is a good supply 
of small animals for food. 
Bullfrog Films 
From a mere tadpole sixteen years ago, this 
environmental film store has grown into one big 
bullfrog indeed. They sell ‘em, they rent ‘em, they 
provide free previews. They even provide replace- 
ment footage for portions of film eaten by your 
obsolete 1952 projector's gnashing sprockets. 
They deal videos. But most important, they have a 
great selection of films, the choice informed by a 
commendably wide definition of “environmental.” 
These include some on enterprises featured 
elsewhere in this Ecolog (RMI p. 56 and New 
Alchemy p. 83, for example). In addition to a list of 
the very best films — | doubt if there’s even one 
sappy offering — Bullfrog has begun to furnish 
entire schticks — a boon to teachers educated 
before environmental subjects took the stage. The 
Energy, Technology and Society kit is one of 
these. It's a complete course, with extensive 
teacher's guide, videos, and computer software. 
Despite the impression given in the catalogs of 
good-old-boy education supply companies, 
Bullfrog is without serious rival as a source for fare 
LEARNING 119 
that actually interests kids and adults. Even their 
catalog is interesting. And they're nice people to 
deal with, too. —JB 
Bullfrog Films; Catalog free from: Bullfrog 
Films, Inc., Oley, PA 19547; (800) 543-FROG 
e 
TOAST; 12 Minutes/Grades 3-Adult; Produced by 
Earth Chronicles/A film by Daniel Hoffman 
One of the most effective energy films ever made, 
TOAST illustrates our underlying dependence on 
fossil fuels, and takes as its example the produc- 
tion and distribution of a commonplace item, 
bread. Using flowing images set to music, it 
documents all the fossil fuel inputs, from the oil 
well head (to make the fertilizer to grow the wheat, 
etc.) to the toaster. With Discussion Guide. 
e 
IN DEFENSE OF ANIMALS: A Portrait of Peter 
Singer; 28 Minutes/Grades 9-Adult (New!) 
Produced by Julie Akeret 
What Martin Luther King was to civil rights and 
Gloria Steinem to 
women’s lib, so 
Australian philoso- 
pher Peter Singer 
is to the animal 
rights movement. 
This is an excel- 
lent summation of 
both the philo- 
sophical and prac- 
tical arguments 
that underpin one 
of the fastest 
growing political 
movements in this 
country and the 
world. 
According to 
Singer, the heart of the argument lies in the 
recognition that we should not discount the pain 
and suffering of another just because the being 
that is suffering is not human. 
Many believe this is a critical advance in the 
evolution of our moral thinking, and it is certainly 
time for all of us to familiarize ourselves with the 
arguments of the animal rights movement, argu- 
ments that are too frequently trivialized or deliber- 
ately misrepresented. 
The Video Project 
These folks produce and distribute films and 
videos on critical environmental issues, including 
some from the Soviet Union. Many are suitable for 
use on local PBS stations — Video Project offers a 
handbook on how to get the films that interest you 
aired. The high quality (Oscar-winners) selection 
tends to emphasize dramatic presentations of 
things gone awry. Nothing wrong with that; it’s a 
wake-up call. —JB 
The Video Project (Films and Videos for a Safe 
& Sustainable World); Catalog free from: 
The Video Project, 5332 College Ave., Suite 101 
Oakland, CA 94618; (415) 655-9050 
VLADIMIR SHEVCHENKO'S FILM crew was the first in the disaster zone following the 
meltdown of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in 1986. For more than two weeks 
they fought for the right to film. Then they shot continuously for more than three months. 
A lifeless city. Empty villages. A dead forest. A cemetery of abandoned cars. Wild 
chickens. The film itself is exposed with white blotches — a radiation leakage. After 
filming, the crew had to discard their camera and bury it, because it couldn't be 
decontaminated. While editing the film, the director was already fatally ill. Shevch- 
enko was brought to the film's premiere from the clinic, accompanied by his physician. 
However, various agencies blocked its wider release. One agency demanded 152 
changes in the completed film. The film lay on the shelf for four months. Filmgoers in 
the Soviet Union saw it only after the director's death. 
CHERNOBYL: 
CHRONICLE OF 
DIFFICULT WEEKS 
Directed by Vladimir Shevchenko 
yx 
SPECIAL PRIZE, the International Film Festival in Cracow, 1987 
yx HONORARY GOLD PRIZE, 15th International Film Festival in Moscow, 1987 
ve ATTHE 3RD INTERNATIONAL FILM FESTIVAL PANTELLERIA, ITALY, THE JURY AWARDED A SPECIAL PRIZE 
IN MEMORY OF V. SHEVCHENKO. 
Also with: 
1986 © 53 Min. © Color 
THE BAM ZONE 
Portrays the harsh truth behind a major public works project of the 
Brezhnev era. 
1987 © 18:30 Min. * Color. 
VHS/Sale $59.95, Rent $35 
