92 APPROPRIATE TECHNOLOGY 
ban ILLICH once commented rather impolitely, “If 
you insist on working with the poor, if this is your 
vocation, then at least work among the poor who 
can tell you to go to hell.” He suggests that you 
work nearer home. When relatively rich North 
Americans work abroad, they often do more 
harm than good, especially by exporting our 
values — often the worst ones — into an area 
where they have no natural enemies to keep 
them in balance. | agree; my own overseas 
efforts have produced no significant lasting 
benefits to anyone. (Except me. “Doing time’ is 
a great way to learn.) A contribution of my 
airfare would probably have been more effec- 
tive. Nonetheless, there are more and more 
examples of projects where a spirited, humble 
application of expertise has done some good; 
people are learning how to help in an effective 
way at last. The most successful seem to be 
those that deeply involve local people. —JB 
ITDG 
The Intermediate Technology Development Group 
of North America, Inc., is a child of the original 
British ITDG founded by the late E.F. Schumacher 
of Small Is Beautiful fame (p. 98). [TDG has 
designed and executed some of the very best AT 
projects yet seen domestically and worldwide. 
They publish and distribute many of the most 
useful AT books and other literature. They're too 
multifaceted to present here in all their glory. If 
you'd like to work with them, give them a call. 
Their publications catalog offers entry into what 
has become a major world movement marked by 
increasing cooperation and information exchange. 
It’s also a fine source for English language 
versions of international publications. 
ITDG produces a fine magazine too — appropri- 
ately called Appropriate Technology Journal. 
—JB 
ITDG Catalog free; 
Appropriate Technology 
Journal; $23/year (4 
issues). Both from: 
Intermediate Technology 
Development Group of 
North America, Inc., 777 
United Nations Plaza, 
Suite 9A, New York, NY 
10017; (212) 953-6920 
UNACCEPTABLE BIOGAS. The other aspect of 
the growth in information available to us all 
through data bases is that it is not usually cross 
indexed according to the social context or ‘genetic 
code’ that produced it. We have all heard of the 
plans available for all sorts and conditions of bio- 
gas digesters, all keenly studied by organizations 
throughout the world, and all seeming to reflect a 
keen interest in a usable and sustainable technol- 
ogy suited to the Third World’s mix of resources. 
And yet the only places where there is widespread 
use of this technology are China and India. 
There is something in the social context of biogas 
technology which makes it seem inappropriate and 
unacceptable in many places where, on the face 
of it, it would seem very relevant. In most of these 
places the reason seems to me very simple — the 
people for whom it is being considered don't like 
handling shit (and who’s to blame them?). Rare, 
however, is the technical manual which says that 
one of the parameters to be considered for using 
digesters is a willingness to handle shit: mostly it’s 
all talk about recycling oil-drums, gas pressures, 
ranges of temperature, etc, etc. 
And finally, so much information that becomes 
Appropriate Technology 
Sourcebook and Microfiche 
Library 
More than 1000 of the proven-best-worldwide AT 
books are sorted out, indexed, and given succinct 
reviews in this most useful book. Even more 
remarkable is that the book also serves as the 
annotated index to a matching portable microfiche 
library containing the entire contents of every one 
of those books, illustrations and all. That’s more 
than 140,000 pages! The library fits into one 
sturdy tacklebox. A choice of ‘fiche readers is 
available, including 240 volt and 12 volt (as in 
vehicle battery or solar panel) models. The price of 
the whole set is an amazing bargain at less than 
5% of the cost of the actual books (not to mention 
the cost of shipping and storing them abroad). It’s 
the best single idea I’ve seen in my 25 years of AT 
action. If you work in developing countries, you 
need one of these sets. Hatched and executed by 
Ken Darrow of VIA (Volunteers in Asia). —JB 
Appropriate Technology 
Sourcebook, Ken Darrow 
and Mike Saxenian; 1986; 
800 pp.; $17.95 ($19.95 
postpaid)**WEA. Appropriate 
Technology Microfich Refer- 
ence Library; Information 
free; Library & case $695, 
Fiche Reader $250-350 
(postage and handling varies 
by destination). Both from: Appropriate Technol- 
ogy Project, Volunteers in Asia, P. O. Box 4543 
Stanford, CA 94305; (800) 648-8043; 
[in California (415) 326-8581] 
The Rower Pump, MF 14-368, reports and bro- 
chures, 1984 and later, available from Mirpur 
Agricultural Workshop and Training School 
(MAWTS), Mirpur Section 12, Pallabi, Dacca-16, 
Bangladesh; or Mennonite Central Committee, 
1/1, Block “A” Mohammadpur, Dacca, Bangladesh. 
Thousands of low-cost direct action handpumps 
made of pvc pipe are being used in Bangladesh 
for low-lift irrigation of small plots. The Rower 
pump can be easily made in developing countries, 
and the farmer can do his/her own simple repairs. 
The pump pays for itself in one crop. 
The extremely low cost of the hand-pump (ap- 
proximately US$15) and pvc tubewell installation 
(approximately US$30-45) and the large economic 
return from small plot irrigation together make this 
technology an excellent investment for farmers in 
Rower Pump Installation 
for Irrigation 
areas where the water table is shallow 
(15 feet or less). The Rower pump is 
probably one of the most important agricultural 
tools invented in the last 20 yearg. 
Readers seeking information on the Rower pump 
can write to the manufacturer (MAWTS) for a 
brochure with technical details. Some of the same 
material is reproduced in Handpumps Testing and 
Development: Progress Report on Field and Labo- 
ratory Testing. The results of an extensive labora- 
tory test are described in Laboratory Testing of 
Handpumps for Developing Countries: Final 
Technical Report . The relevant pages from both 
of these books are reproduced in the A.T. Micro- 
fiche Library as MF 14-368. 
TRANET 
Networking and information exchange is increas- 
ingly the name of the game, and TRANET 
(from 
Transnational Network for Appropriate/Alternative 
Technologies) has been doing it more comprehen- 
sively than anyone else for about 15 years now. 
Their lively bi-monthly newsletter has brief reviews 
of useful books, lots of news from the front, a 
member's bulletin board, and reader commentary 
— much of it uncomplimentary to the establish- 
ment. That last characteristic gives it a noticeably 
70s character, but the level of information ex- 
change is very much of today. The TRANET crew 
is often the first to spread the news globally 
among people taking 
control of their own lives. 
We read every issue. —JB 
TRANET; $30/member- 
ship (includes subscription 
to bi-monthly newsletter) 
from: TRANET, P.O. Box 
567, Rangeley, ME 04970 
available is not involved with looking at the actual 
world of the poor and assessing the value of 
practices and knowledge which have kept such 
people going for a long time, but in thirsting for 
new knowledge which, on the face of it, looking at 
the situation of the Third World today, has not 
been of great help. So often the solution to a 
problem of the poor is much more likely to be 
found among slightly less poor people in a cultur- 
ally similar environment in some other part of the 
world who have faced the same problem and have 
found a working solution to it. if only new ideas, 
which are often preceded by a literature search, 
’ could be preceded by a culture search, and pref- 
erably one which is organized along ecological 
parameters, since the lives of the poor are bound 
by the natural products around them. 
—Appropriate Technology Journal 
Technologies developed for disabled people can 
provide income-earning possibilities for other 
people. —Appropriate Technology Journal 
