8 WORLDWATCH INSTITUTE 
LL 
State of the World 
Who has time to read all available envi- 
ronmental and ecological news? Not me, 
certainly. If we subscribed to every avail- 
able magazine, and bought all the books 
published each month, we’d soon be 
buried in an environmentally unseemly 
pile of paper, much of it destined to re- 
main unread. Yet it is good to keep up 
with the latest ideas and events. We are in 
luck: All we have to do is pay attention to, 
or better, join Worldwatch Institute. Since 
1974, their publications have proven to be 
a comprehensive, reliable and often pre- 
scient look at the world’s problems and 
possible solutions thereto. Each year 
since 1984, Worldwatch has delivered an- 
other book in their remarkable State of the World 
series. This year’s edition is labelled as a “report 
on progress toward a sustainable society.” It must 
be the best single look at what is and is not being 
done about the world’s major problems. The 
information is presented by a cadre of Worldwatch 
authors, all of whom know how to write. The gen- 
eral tone is energetic and instistent, but not hys- 
terical. Partisan politics are absent, but are report- 
ed as fact where necessary. Copious footnotes 
(mercifully located at the back of the book) assure 
credibility. Some of the articles are shortened ver- 
sions of recent Worldwatch Papers (see below). 
If you read just one ecobook a year, this is cer- 
tainly it. You'll be in good company; many govern- 
ments, schools and organizations use the book as 
a principal resource. Since Worldwatch is truly a 
global organization, State of the World is now 
published in Arabic, Chinese, English, French, 
German, Indonesian, Italian, Japanese, Polish, 
Portuguese, Russian, and Spanish, with Dutch, 
Hungarian, Korean, Norwegian, and Swedish 
versions coming soon. | keep a copy (in English, 
yes?) nearby. —JB 
World-Watch 
You don't need to wait until next year to find out 
what's going on. The redoubtable Worldwatch 
crew also puts out a magazine six times a year. It 
covers pretty much the same stuff as the annual 
State of the World book. Editorial policy aims the 
magazine at the task of providing good informa- 
tion, as you'd expect. It is also intended “to provide 
a global framework for the thousands of organiza- 
tions throughout the world that work on energy, 
environmental, food, population, and peace 
issues.” Editing is deliberately done in a way that 
provides a quick, accurate source of information 
for us media hacks. | appreciate the effort a lot, 
and use the magazine in courses | teach. —JB 
State of the World 
c 
Lester R. Brown, editor 
|] Grate qt 
| 
$9.95 *WEA 
A the World| 
sf 
il re ¥ Or C 
qj 
World-Watch 
eee 
< [ester BOW 
tae 
Lester R. Brown, editor 
$15/year (six issues) 
Worldwatch Papers 
Lester R. Brown, editor 
$4/single copy; $25/year 
membership includes 
State of the World ) 
all from: Worldwatch 
Institute, 1776 Massa- 
chusetts Avenue, NW 
Washington, DC 
20036 
Norplant consists of six rubber capsules, each the 
size of a matchstick. The capsules contain levon- 
orgestrel, the synthetic hormone found in birth 
control pills. In a brief surgical procedure per- 
formed with the patient under a local anesthetic, 
Military Priority 
Trident |! submarine, 
F-16 
jet fighter 
programs 
Stealth bomber’ 
program 
German outlays for 
military procurement 
and R&D, FY 1985 
Approx. 2 days of” 
global. mil. spending 
MK-50 Advanced Light: 
$6.billion 
Weight Torpedo 
Trade-offs Between Military and Environmental Priorities: 
Cost 
$100 billion 
$79 billion: 
water goals by 2000 
$10.75 billion 
sector of the North Sea 
$4.8 billion 
Source: Worldwatch Institute: 
—World:Watch 
the six capsules are inserted in a woman’s upper 
arm. The time-released hormone provides effec- 
tive contraceptive protection for up to five years, 
primarily by inhibiting ovulation and thickening 
cervical mucus to prevent sperm from reaching the 
egg. When the implants are removed, fertility 
returns almost immediately. 
The main advantages of Norplant are its effective- 
ness, convenience and longevity. With less than 
0.5 percent risk of pregnancy in the first year of 
use, and 1 percent risk even in the fifth year, 
Norplant is more effective than either the pill or the 
IUD and rivals the record of sterilization. Unlike the 
pill, it does not require daily discipline; unlike the 
condom or diaphragm, it is not awkward or disrup- 
tive; and unlike sterilization, it is 
easily reversed. 
All of which makes Norplant 
sound like a wonder contracep- 
tive, but it does have draw- 
backs. First, it is less effective 
in women who weight more 
than 150 pounds. More impor- 
tant, it causes menstrual 
and East 
Social/Environmental Priority 
One-third of estimated clean-up cost for U.S. 
hazardous. waste-dumps, over 50 years 
80 percent of est: costs to meet U.S. clean 
Estimated clean-up:costs for West German 
Annual cost of proposed U.N. Action Plan to: 
halt Third World desertification, over 20 years 
Annual cost to cut sulfur dioxide emissions 
e 
by 8-12 million tons/year in the:U.S. to 
combat acid rain, over five years: 
Table 3-3. Water Scarcity, Selected Countries and Regions 
Africa, North Ten countries likely to experience severe water stress by 2000; 
Egypt, already near its limits, could lose vital supplies from 
the Nile as upper-basin countries develop the river's 
headwaters. 
Fifty cities face acute shortages; water tables beneath Beijing 
are dropping 1-2 meters per year; farmers in Beijing region 
than they took back in interest and prin- 
cipal payments. At that point, the flow 
become a backward torrent; by 1988, 
the poor were paying the rich $50 billion 
a year. The massive diversion of re- 
sources to the North has taken a toll not 
only on the people of developing lands, 
but on the land itself. Forests have been 
recklessly logged, mineral deposits 
carelessly mined, and fisheries overex- 
ploited, all to pay foreign creditors. 
Nepal exemplifies the way sheer growth 
of human numbers fuels the spiral, as 
human practices at a given level of 
technology exceed a local 
environment’s carrying capacity. As 
population swells, peasants in highland valleys are 
forced to expand their plots onto steep forested 
hillsides, extending women’s journeys to gather 
fuel and fodder. Over the past decade, during 
which forests have receded to half their original 
extent, women’s daily journey has increased by 
more than an hour, their workday in the fields has 
shortened, family incomes have fallen, and diets 
have deteriorated. 
Shubh Kumar and David Hotchkiss of the Interna- 
tional Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) in 
Washington report not only that food consumption 
in the region has fallen by 100 calories per person 
on average, but that in village after village child- 
hood malnutrition rates and deforestation rates are 
irregularity, ranging from pro- 
longed bleeding to no bleeding 
at all (side effects that usually 
subside by the end of the first 
year). While many women find 
the bleeding merely bother- 
some, others consider it 
serious enough to have their 
implants removed. 
Clearly, no contraceptive, 
Norplant included, can com- 
pensate for a lack of family 
planning services. The success 
of Norplant is pinned to the ex- 
pansion of these services. 
Worldwatch Papers 
Six or eight times a year, 
Worldwatch publishes a paper 
on one of the topics that 
Worldwatch watches. These 
papers take the form of paper- 
bound booklets offering concise 
background information on the 
subject under discussion. 
could lose 30-40 percent of their supplies to domestic and 
industrial uses. 
Tens of thousands of villages throughout India now face 
shortages; plans to divert water from Brahmaputra River have 
heightened Bangladesh’s fear of shortages; large portions of 
New Delhi have water only a few hours a day. 
Groundwater pumping in parts of the valley containing Mexico 
City exceed recharge by 40 percent, causing land to subside; 
few options exist to import more fresh water. 
Middle East 
With Israel, Jordan, and the West Bank expected to be using 
all renewable sources by 1995, shortages are imminent; Syria 
could lose vital supplies when Turkey’s massive Ataturk Dam 
comes on-line in 1992. 
Soviet Union Depletion of river flows has caused volume of Aral Sea to drop 
by two thirds since 1960; irrigation plans have been scaled 
back; high unemployment and deteriorating conditions have 
caused tens of thousands to leave the area. 
United States One fifth of total irrigated area is watered by excessive 
pumping of groundwater; roughly half of western rivers are 
overappropriated; to augment supplies, cities are buying 
farmers’ water rights. 
souRcE: Worldwatch Institute, based on various sources. 
—State of the World 
Check our reviews of #84 Rethinking the Role of 
the Automobile (p. 70), and #90 The Bicycle: 
Vehicle for a Small Planet (p. 67). If you join 
Worldwatch Institute, your annual fee includes all 
the Papers for that year, plus a copy of the latest 
State of the World. All are available separately, 
too. —JB 
Staggering as the absolute quantities of debt are, 
however, the pivotal question is which way 
resources are moving across the North-South 
boundary. Until 1984, industrial countries gave 
more to developing countries in loans each year 
closely coupled. In the hills of Nepal, in other 
words, the health of a village’s children can be 
read in the retreating tree line on surrounding 
slopes. 
Nothing incites people to 
deplete forests, soils, or water 
supplies faster than fear they will 
soon lose access to them. 
—State of the World 
