86 POLLUTION 
/ 
T’S EASIER to prevent a mess than it is to clean it up and only two strategies are 
likely to work. One is the technical fix — develop technologies that minimize pollution. More 
basic is to live in a way that minimizes demands that result in pollution. That turns out to be 
hard to do even for the best-intentioned of us, but at least it’s clear where to start. —JB 
Last Stand of 
the Red Spruce 
The national debate on acid rain, begun nearly ten 
years ago, has been marked by as much scientific 
as political conflict over causes, effects, and 
solutions. The result has been a confused and 
often ill-informed public, too frequently focused on 
narrow parochial interests to appreciate the larger, 
and ultimately more serious, problems embodied in 
the acid rain issue. Author Robert Mello, a lawyer 
and amateur naturalist, has waded through an 
enormous body of scientific literature to produce a 
balanced, in-depth look at the complex relation- 
ships among acid rain, air pollution, and forest 
decline. His achievement is remarkable not 
only for the clear and concise manner in which 
he explains complicated scientific issues but also 
for his ability to weave the many diverse but 
related aspects of this problem together into a 
very readable and cohesive examination of the 
evidence. —Fred Schauffler 
Last Stand of the Red Spruce 
Robert A. Mello; 1987; 208 pp. 
$14.95 ($16.95 postpaid) from: 
Island Press, Box 7, Covelo 
CA 95428; (800) 828-1302 WEA 
Inside the narrow band that extends from the 
ground to just 25 feet above the ground, 5 billion 
tons of air pass over the United States each day. 
For hundreds of millions of years, this air has 
brought to trees the carbon dioxide, hydrogen, and 
water they need to live. Since the beginning of the 
Industrial Revolution, the air has also brought in- 
creasing amounts of noxious pollutants. The 
burning of oil and coal by electrical power plants 
and manufacturing facilities, the combustion of 
gasoline by motor vehicles, incineration, the 
smelting and refining of copper, lead, zinc, nickel, 
and other ores cumulatively pour tens of millions of 
tons of particles and gases into the atmosphere 
every year. All of the particles and gases that go up 
ultimately come back down either as fallout or in 
precipitation. While they are in the air, however, the 
pollutants undergo a chain of chemical reactions, 
transforming some of the gases into more danger- 
ous forms of pollution; thus, what comes back out 
of the air is worse than what was put into it. Many 
of these pollutants are known to be deadly to trees, 
depending upon the concentrations present and the 
length of time the trees are exposed. 
TE 
Te 
National Toxics Campaign 
The National Toxics Campaign provides leader- 
ship, coordination and ammunition to grassroots 
toxics activists across the nation. NTC and its 
research arm, the National Toxics Campaign 
Fund, also bring expert organizational and techni- 
cal help to grassroots groups. 
They orchestrated a “Superdrive for Superfund,” 
which featured a caravan of trucks collecting water 
and soil samples from 200 toxic sites around the 
country. The samples were delivered to the 
Capitol steps to emphasize the need for stronger 
legislation. 
The Superfund law was an important first step. 
While cleaning up the past sites is a major job, 
America has not yet accomplished the prevention 
measures that are needed to stop the poisoning of 
its people and environment. So NTC has forged 
ahead with a multifaceted effort to prevent toxic 
hazards in all of their forms: 
¢ NTC is providing tools to grassroots activists who 
are demanding that local polluters provide the 
Right to Know, the Right to Inspect and the Right 
to Negotiate. 
¢ NTC launched a campaign to persuade grocers 
to end the sale of fresh produce with cancer- 
causing pesticides by 1995. As of this writing, 
more than a thousand grocers had signed up, 
including five major food chains. 
¢ NTC is circulating and providing support for mo- 
del state policies to reduce the use of toxic chem- 
icals and the production of hazardous wastes. 
Legislative versions of the policies have been en- 
acted in two states, and filed in about ten others. 
¢ NTC publishes an excellent newsletter, Toxic 
Times [$15/year (4 issues) to NTC members]. 
¢ During 1989, the organization established the 
first public-interest environmental laboratory. The 
lab provides truly independent testing for citizen 
activists who want to know the chemical ingredi- 
ents of water, air, soil, sludges, wastes and 
tissues. —Sanford Lewis [An attorney for 
National Toxics Campaign] 
National Toxics Campaign, 37 Temple PI., 
4th Floor, Boston, MA 02111; (617) 482-1477 
(Membership in NTC is $25 for individuals and 
$100 for organizations. Organizational member- 
ship includes discount prices on lab services 
and publications.) 
Coping With An Oiled Sea 
Our government's Office of Technology Assess- 
ment (OTA) analyses present oil spill recovery 
techniques and their limitations. 
A sobering read. 
They don’t mention that if cars got better mileage 
(and we drove less), most tankers would not be 
necessary. —JB 
While considerable public pressure exists. 
to take 
immediate action to restore polluted shorelines to 
prespill conditions, this inherently costly, labor 
See Also... 
Environmental magazines, p. 112. 
Pollution fighters get together, p. 104-107. 
Worldwatch papers on pollution, p. 8. 
intensive undertaking has seldom had more than 
modest success, particularly on rocky shorelines. 
Moreover, in some instances, shoreline cleanup 
has resulted in more damage than good. Marshes 
and other wetlands are particularly vulnerable to 
mechanical cleanup methods, but cleanup of 
sandy and rocky beaches can also cause addi- 
tional damage. In some instances, the best course 
of action, although not a satisfying one, is to do 
nothing and let the beach slowly recover naturally. 
Coping With An Oiled Sea 
Stock# 052-003-01183-2 
| 
$3.75 postpaid from: 
| 
Superintendent of Documents 
; 
Government Printing Office 
Washington, DC 20402-9325 
(202) 783-3238 
Nuclear Information and 
Resource Service 
The Nuclear Information and Resource Service 
keeps an admittedly jaundiced eye on the nuclear 
power industry, then makes what they find avail- 
able to you in this level-headed quarterly. At other 
times, you can stay current with NIRSNET, their 
computer bulletin board that keeps tabs on every 
nuclear facility in the US, or the legislative alerts 
that NIRS sends its members when the situation 
requires fast action. If you’re baffled by jargon or 
complex proposals, there’s a technical assistance 
program. NIRS also serves as a nuclear informa- 
tion clearing house. Commendable. —JB 
[Suggested by Sandy Stewart] 
Nuclear Information and Resource Service; 
$20/year membership [includes a subscription 
to Groundswell, (4 issues a 
year) and access to Nirsnet 
for regulatory & legislative 
alerts, technical assistance 
pe 
& information clearinghouse] | the Rie Ns Be 
from: 
De 
eae 
NIRS 
1424 16th Street NW 
Suite 604, Washington 
DC 20036; (202) 328-0002 
Grouse 
SP 
ns 
mew 
Hazardous Waste 
in America 
The compendium of information about the particu- 
lar components of the 80 billion pounds of hazard- 
ous waste materials generated annually by 
American industries — 350 pounds per year for 
each inhabitant of the U.S. The book includes a 
directory of 8000 toxic dumps located in all 50 
states; a field guide to locating undisclosed waste 
sites; a selection of case studies of toxic dumps 
and their tragic human toll; an excellent “citizen’s 
legal guide to hazardous wastes”, and an intelli- 
gent, emphatic discussion of the political, legal, 
practical, and philosophical solutions to a toxic 
nightmare that is all too real. —Carol Van Strum 
The cream of the crap, so to speak. 
—Peter Warshall 
Hazardous Waste in 
America, Samuel S. Epstein 
Lester O. Brown & Carl Pope 
1982; 593 pp.; $27.50 ($32 
postpaid) from: Sierra Club 
Books, 730 Polk Street 
San Francisco, CA 94109 
(415) 923-5500 WEA 
| Hecordous 
‘Waste 
America a. 
Some wastes are effectively immortal; their toxic 
qualities are intrinsic to their elemental structure. 
The heavy metals are in this category, and, ina 
different sense, so is asbestos, whose toxicity is a 
function of its physical structure, which, for 
practical purposes, is indestructible. Some radio- 
active wastes, particularly uranium and plutonium, 
retain their radioactive properties for so long that 
we should also view them as immortal. 
A second group of wastes is semi-mortal. Destruc- 
tion or degradation occurs in the environment, but 
very slowly. Chlorinated hydrocarbons, especially 
complex ones, are semi-mortal in natural environ- 
ments, but can be destroyed in high-temperature 
incinerators. 
A third group of toxics is very short-lived or mortal, 
including acids and bases and other strongly 
reactive materials like cyanides, which are rapidly 
destroyed or neutralized in the environment. 
