106 COMMUNITY ACTION 
| Wise LEGAL OPTIONS have been sub- 
verted, when government once again puts 
a fox to guarding the chickens, when 
time’s a-wastin’, the only remaining answer 
may be immediate, possibly “illegal” action. 
lf the ACTS are well chosen and carried out 
with intelligence and theatre, the public is at 
least awakened, if not totally OUTRAGED. 
Straight folks, and of course those targeted, 
engage in much hand-wringing and talk of 
TERRORism. But a look at the recent past 
will show that courageous Earth First!-ers 
and Greenpeace squads have often been 
the first to stir up what later became major 
causes championed by less CONTROVER- 
SIAL organizations with offices in Wash- 
ington. I’m glad there are folks out there 
with the GUTS to do this sort of thing. —JB! 
NES ORIORL ES 
Notre One Alka eNOS Aamo 
Hee) 
Greenpeace 
Whenever you see a tiny rubber boat (a Zodiac or 
“Zode”) obstructing a huge ship that’s doing some- 
thing environmentally despicable, you can bet 
Greenpeace is at work; nonviolent action is what 
* 
they're famous for. Greenpeace also engages in 
less dramatic stuff too. They prepare well-re- 
searched briefs that help media, government, and 
courts get their facts straight; they make presenta- 
tions at all levels of government, from town 
meetings to Congress; they produce slides, films, 
and videos. Greenpeace now includes scientists 
on their staff, adding academic credibility and 
political clout to a reputation for dramatic confron- 
tation. That move — a mark of brilliant manage- 
ment — and a host of authoritative publications 
has made Greenpeace one of the most effective of 
all environmental organizations. Their list of hard- 
won accomplishments is long and inspiring. —JB 
Greenpeace; $15/year (membership includes 
six issues of Greenpeace magazine) from: 
Greenpeace, P.O. Box 3720, Washington, DC 
20007 
Accomplishments 
*In 1989, A Greenpeace-led Icelandic fish boycott 
forced Iceland to stop whaling. 
*Greenpeace continues to maintain the only 
nongovernmental base camp in Antarctica. 
“In the fall of 1989, thousands of activists called on 
the EPA to demand that states be required to 
emphasize waste prevention, not incineration, in 
hazardous waste “Capacity Assurance Plans.” 
EPA rewrote its guidelines for the plans in an 
attempt to address the demands raised by the 
“Phone-In for Prevention” campaign. 
*In 1988 and ’89, Greenpeace Action educational 
campaigns contributed to pressure on the Depart- 
ment of Energy, which resulted in the indefinite 
closure of the Savannah River Plant reactors in 
South Carolina as well as the Hanford Reservation 
N-reactor and PUREX reprocessing facility in 
Washington. 
The Monkey Wrench Gang - 
Hayduke Lives! 
Fifteen years after publishing The Monkey 
Wrench Gang and one year after his death, Ed- 
ward Abbey has left us with a posthumous sequel, 
Hayduke Lives! Considering the author's circum- 
stance (the book was written while Abbey was 
dying) and the story’s optimistic ending, it is a gift 
to anyone concerned with re-routing the industrial 
juggernaut of late twentieth century civilization. 
Abbey writes fiction with real-life consequence — 
his advocacy of anti-industrial sabotage in order to 
3 
protect wilderness in The Monkey Wrench Gang 
inspired the radical environmental group Earth 
First! This summer, as fictional bombs turn into 
real-life explosives and we watch the establish- 
ment begin to give Earth First! the same treatment 
accorded the Black Panther Party in the late 
sixties, these books take on a chilling immediacy. 
Everything you love to hate about Abbey, the 
redneck, bad-boy philosopher, is here in the final 
work — asinine macho posturing, hopeless 
stereotyping, and his intense dislike of essentially 
anyone not like himself. Both these novels are 
composed more of caricatures than characters; 
that’s one reason the R. Crumb illustrations that 
grace the pages of the current edition of The 
Monkey Wrench Gang work so well. But there is 
humanity and humor driving the hatred and anger; 
Abbey’s description in Hayduke Lives! of two 
overweight Mormons attempting to make baby 
number twelve, while an ultraviolet bug-zapper 
kills insects outside their bedroom window, is a 
short comic masterpiece. —Richard Nilsen 
Dream Garden Press, which publishes The 
Monkey Wrench Gang, also sells T-shirts with R. 
Crumb’s great artwork of the Gang and a wonder- 
ful calendar with stunning desert photographs of 
Abbey’s hangouts as well as quotes from his 
various works. —Susan Erkel Ryan 
The Monkey Wrench Gang 
Edward Abbey, Illustrations 
by R. Crumb; 1990; 356 pp. 
$21.95 ($23.45 postpaid) 
WEA 
T-Shirts $15 each ($17 
postpaid) The Gang, 
The Wrench, Hayduke Lives!, 
Bonnie, Seldom Seen, 
Doc Sarvis (kicking t.v.) 
The 1991 Edward Abbey Western Wilderness 
Calendar; $9.95 ($11.95 postpaid) 
All from: 
Dream Garden Press, P.O. Box 27076 
Salt Lake City, UT 84127; (801) 467-1490 
Hayduke Lives! 
Edward Abbey 
1990; 308 pp. 
$18.45 ($20.45 
postpaid) from: 
Little, Brown & Co. 
200 West Street 
Waltham, MA 02154 
(800) 343-9204 WEA 
SYN-FUELS GO HOME. EURO-TRASH GO 
HOME. BACK TO BRUSSELS WITH GOLIATH. 
SAVE OUR GRAND CANYON. WHOSE LAND IS 
THIS ANYHOW? 
The banners flew, the flags rustled, the paper 
placards snapped and popped and crackled, held 
aloft by proud little boys and pigtailed bright-eyed 
brave little girls. The messages, however, would 
not appear on your home viewing screen. Why 
not? Because the “media,” though invited, had 
once again failed to appear. Why? Such decisions 
“AS THE TIPOVER POINT APPROACHED THE TRACTOR ATTEMPTED 
(SO (T SEEMED) 
To SAVE ITSELF : 
ONE TREAD BEING MORE AD— 
VANCED (NTO THE AIR THAN THE OTHER, THE TRACTOR MADE A 
LURCHING HALF-TURN TO THE RIGHT, TRYING TO CLING TO THE 
RIM OF THE MESA AND SOMEHOW REGAIN SOLID FOOTING, " 
are made discreetly, quietly, by a few important 
people meeting on the golf course, in the 
boardroom, at lunch in the Brown Palace in 
Denver, at the Biltmore in Phoenix. A few brief 
phone calls to the appropriate TV, radio and 
newspaper bureau chiefs settled the matter. After 
all, some events make worthy news and some do 
not. Another orderly protest demonstration against 
racial segregation in South Africa, for example, 
comfortably carried out on the campus of Berkeley 
or Stanford or Harvard or Yale ten thousand miles 
away, troubles no one, causes no embarrassment 
to anybody, allows all involved to look good, feel 
virtuous, risk nothing. But let a bunch of hairy 
redneck rabble in some wasteland western 
American state interpose their living bodies 
between the industrial megamachine and a little 
patch of free country, open space, old-growth 
forest, natural nature, wildland and wildlife, and 
the horror runs deep through the hierarchy of 
upper management. That kind of subversion (non- 
commercial) cannot be accepted; will not (anti- 
business) be tolerated; has to (pro-populist) be 
most severely punished both legally and — in so 
far as possible — illegally; and last but categori- 
cally imperative, shall not be encouraged through 
the power of example by publicity in any form. As 
in any well-ordered oligarchy, not only the event 
itself must be suppressed but all news of it as well. 
Therefore the “media” did not appear. 
—Hayduke Lives! 
The Earth First! Li'l Green 
Songbook 
Music is the voice of the soul. For a movement to 
be successful, when the odds are against it but the 
heart is for it, it helps to have the soul speaking. 
Thus evolved the Earth First! Li’l Green Song- 
book. —Susan Erkel Ryan 
The Earth First! 
Lil Green Songbook 
| enum 
Johnny Sagebrush and Friends 
pal gbook 
1986; 102 pp.; $5 ($6.26 post- 
paid) from: Ned Ludd Books 
P.O. Box 5141, Tucson, AZ 
85703; (602) 628-9610 *kWEA 
@ 
What’s Left of the West 
(Words and music by Greg Keeler) 
Manifest destiny ain’t had a rest 
Ever since Horace Greeley said, “Young man go 
west.” 
