90 URBAN ORE 
This article is derived from Total Recycling: 
Realistic Ways to Approach the Ideal, a book by 
Daniel Knapp and Mary Lou Van Deventer, com- 
ing soon from the University of California Press. 
Their ideas are based upon lessons learned the 
hard way at Urban Ore, a precedent-setting recycl- 
ing operation still growing vigorously in Berkeley, 
California. —JB 
How to Design 
Total Recycling 
Systems 
By Daniel Knapp, Ph.D. 
Mary Lou Van Deventer 
Total recycling is a big vision — it means not 
wasting anything. 
It means a technological, 
economic, and cultural system built for convenient, 
effective reuse and recycling of anything we can 
no longer use. 
It means wasting and attitudes that 
permit waste are unacceptable. 
It has been 
considered presumptuous even to think of such a 
thing — until now. Now it is necessary. 
But in a world of sound bites and attention spans 
shortened by television, big visions must be 
reduced to microbits to be seen at all. Which is 
okay, so long as the microbits expand on com- 
mand. These principles are presented as micro- 
bits that could be expanded into a huge industry 
called total recycling: 
1. Waste isn’t waste until it’s wasted. Conven- 
tional disposal systems waste resources by mixing 
unlike things together, often in the name of 
efficiency. The first step in avoiding waste is 
avoiding mixing. 
2. Recyclers handle discards, not wastes. 
Discards can be recycled or wasted. We will 
always have discards, but we can deny people the 
option to waste them. 
3. Recycling upgrades discards to resources 
instead of downgrading them to garbage. Gar- 
bage represents a design failure in the disposal 
system. Recyclers sometimes waste things, but 
their ultimate goal is to waste nothing. 
4. Recycling manages the supply of discards, 
not the “solid waste stream.” The term “waste 
management” should be reserved for the garbage 
disposal industry. 
5. Recycling is a form of disposal. Disposal by 
recycling is not destruction; it is orderly placement. 
Auction houses also dispose of things, as do 
estate sales. Only the garbage system disposes 
of things by destroying their value. 
6. Disposal fees can power recycling disposal 
just as they do garbage disposal. There are fees 
for disposal services rendered. Recyclers must be 
allowed and encouraged to compete with garbage 
interests for disposal fees. This will unlock the 
potential for recycling businesses to handle vast 
quantities of material and eventually to replace the 
garbage system. 
7. All of what now becomes garbage can be 
sorted into twelve master categories of recy- 
clable materials. 
8. A discard management system in which 
recycling is the preferred disposal technology must 
_begin with a discard composition study. Such a 
study analyzes today’s discards to establish the 
proportion and volume of each of the twelve 
master categories of recyclables. Observational 
studies that sort and weigh are preferable to 
desktop studies that import data from other 
localities or use other esoteric methodologies. 
9. Each locality should do its own composition 
study, and results should be made public. 
10. A comprehensive recycling system provides 
opportunities to recycle all twelve of the master 
discard categories. Recycling systems should not 
be called comprehensive until all twelve master 
categories are provided for. 
11. Using the twelve master categories provides a 
way to estimate progress toward the goal of 
total recycling. The steps are: (A) estimate the 
amount of each master category within the total 
supply of discards; (B) estimate the amount being 
recycled within each master category (include 
long-extant scrap industries); (C) add the discards 
wasted to the discards recycled; and (D) divide the 
discards recycled by the total discards. The 
resulting percentage will be the recycling rate. 
12. Our culture will move toward total recycling in 
incremental steps, not all at once. 
13. Banning and precycling (source reduction) 
are valid and useful tools for achieving the goal of 
total recycling. Some things will never be recy- 
clable. 
14. All closed landfills should be evaluated for 
their suitability as sites for comprehensive recy- 
cling transfer stations. This is the largest single 
option for increasing discard disposal capacity for 
any community. 
It will also immediately reduce 
pressure on remaining landfill capacity. 
15. Systematic research should be conducted on 
the feasibility of mining old landfills to recover 
some resources, but more important, fill space. 
The Twelve Master Categories 
Of Recyclable Materials 
As we mentioned, designing a comprehensive 
recycling system requires a discard composition 
study. To do the study, one must observe and 
record what is being tossed out. Categories 
become important at this stage, because watching 
the variety of things dumped at a landfill can be 
overwhelming. 
To pull order out of the chaos, similar things must 
be grouped together. But the category list is 
_ 
crucial; a study will see only what its categories 
provide for. Inadequate categories will leave a 
lump of unidentified residue called “miscellaneous” 
or “garbage.” The list has to be big enough to 
cover everything, and small enough to be useful. 
Different sizes of lists are possible, depending on 
one’s idea of what will ultimately happen to the 
discards. Composition studies for incinerators 
often have only two categories: burnable and 
nonburnable. A study for a garbage composting 
plant might use only four or five. 
How many categories are best for a total recycling 
system? 
It turns out there are twelve. (The 
examples after the category names are intended 
to suggest expansion; they are not limits by any 
means.) 
1. Reusable goods, including intact or repairable 
home or industrial appliances; household goods; 
clothing; intact materials in demolition debris, such 
as lumber; building materials such as doors, 
windows, cabinets, and sinks; business supplies 
and equipment; lighting fixtures; and any manufac- 
tured item or naturally occurring object that can be 
repaired or used again as is. 
2. Paper, including newsprint; ledger paper; 
computer paper; corrugated cardboard; and mixed 
paper. 
3. Metals, both ferrous and nonferrous, including 
cans; parts from abandoned vehicles; plumbing; 
fences; metal doors and screens; tools; machin- 
ery; and any other discarded metal objects. 
4. Glass, including glass containers and window 
glass. 
5. Textiles, including nonreusable clothing; 
upholstery; and pieces of fabric. 
6. Plastics, including beverage containers; plastic 
packaging; plastic cases of consumer goods such 
as telephones or electronic equipment; films; and 
tires. 
7. Plant debris, including leaves and cuttings; 
trimmings from trees, shrubs, and grass; whole 
plants; and sawdust. 
8. Putrescibles, including animal, fruit, and 
vegetable debris; cooked food; manures; offal; and 
sewage sludge. 
9. Wood, including unreusable lumber; tree 
rounds; and pallets. 
10. Ceramics, including rock; tile; china; brick; 
concrete; plaster; and asphalt. 
11. Soils, including excavation soils from barren 
or developed land; and excess soils from people’s 
yards. 
12. Chemicals, including acids; bases; solvents; 
fuels; lubricating oils; and medicines. 
Estimated and Actual Percentages of 
Recyclables in the Total Discard Supply 
From incomplete empirical studies and 
countless unsystematic real-world observations, 
we can build up a composite picture of the way the 
twelve master categories are probably related. 
This is a best guess and is not accurate for any 
specific locality, but it is still quite useful because it 
provides an overview showing that although 
discards viewed en masse are chaotic and 
psychically overwhelming, they are nevertheless 
finite and can be accounted for. 
Percentage of Recyclables in the Discards 
Wood 10% 
Reusable goods 5% 
Soils 3% 
Ceramics 5% 
Chemicals 2% 
Plastics 7% 
Putrescibles 5% 
tf 
Textiles 3% 
Uj 
P lant 
Glass 5% 
debris 25% 
Metals 5% 
© 1989 Daniel Knapp and Mary Lou Van Deventer. Excerpted 
from Total Recycling: Realistic Ways to Approach the Ideal, in 
progress; to be published by the University of California Press. 
This generic chart lets us make these big and very 
useful observations: 
e Just two categories, paper and plant debris, 
make up 50% of the total discards. 
¢ About 85% of the discards are organic, carbon- 
based compounds. 
¢ The original “Earth Day” recycling focused on 
post-consumer cans, bottles, and newsprint. We 
have not achieved total success in these catego- 
ries — really subcategories — but if we did, that 
would give us a recycling rate somewhere be- 
tween 15% and 25%. 
¢ From an entrepreneurial point of view, the 
current public preoccupation with plastics recycling 
obscures much more viable business opportunities 
with bigger potential impacts. Reusable goods, 
plant debris, soils, ceramics, putrescibles, and 
textiles can be harvested more easily and profita- 
bly than plastics, and they represent 56% of the 
total, compared to plastics’ 7%. 
¢ Had the early recyclers concentrated on reus- 
able goods — the single most valuable category 
per ton of the twelve — they could have tapped 
into a financial resource that would have stabilized 
and underwritten their losses elsewhere without 
diminishing the environmental impact of their 
efforts. Reusable goods are equal in volume to 
glass and metal, and salvaging them conserves 
the manufacturing energy embodied in them. 
Paper 25% 
e
S
n 
