Groups are small and arranged for compatibility. 
Families are welcome on many trips. Custom 
arrangements can be made. | have not travelled 
with Journeys, but | know people who have. They 
Say it’s a class act, complete with homework 
background books on the cultures you are about 
to visit. —JB 
Journeys (Worldwide Nature & Culture Explo- 
rations); Catalog & quarterly newsletter free 
from: Journeys, 3516 NE 155th, Seattle, WA 
98155; (800) 345-4453 [in WA (206) 365-0686] 
YOUR GUIDES IN ARGENTINA: Our expedition 
director is Argentine conservationist and ornitholo- 
gist, Ricardo Clark. You couldn’t find a more quali- 
fied guide to show you the wildlands of Argentina. 
Ricardo is a former naturalist for the Argentine 
National Park Service and author of a field guide: 
The Birds of Tierra del Fuego. Domingo Galussio, 
our expert in Tierra del Fuego, is completing a field 
guide to the plants of the region and is considered 
the best guide on the island. Carol Passera is a 
lifetime resident of the Peninsula Valdes, a pub- 
lished photographer and author on conservation of 
the Magellanic penguin. Ricardo Gregorio, a 
farmer and mountaineer, is an assistant guide in 
charge of equipment, supplies and pack animals. 
CALIFORNIA, Santa Cruz Island (May 10-13, 
Oct. 18-21). To the Island Chumash people, it was 
the center of the world. To geologists, it poses 
mysterious questions. To naturalists, itis a 
treasure trove of unique plants and animals. To 
the Conservancy, Santa Cruz Island is the “crown 
jewel” of preserves, an island sanctuary protecting 
42 plants and 13 animal species that exist no- 
where else on Earth. We'll explore pine forests, 
oak woodlands, volcanic peaks, and deserted 
beaches. By night we'll enjoy the hospitality of the 
historic rancho following daily bird, wildflower, and 
geologic forays. Limited to 8 people. Cost: $1650 
Directory of Alternative 
Travel Resources 
This unique catalog lives up to its billing as “250 
alternative and socially responsible travel options. 
There’s a wonderful variety — I'll bet you and your 
travel agent have not heard of most of the offer- 
ings. Some are church-associated. This is certain- 
ly worth checking if you crave something out of the 
even very nice ordinary; Club Med, it's not. —JB 
” 
Directory of Alternative Travel Resources 
Dianne G. Brause; 1988; 26 pp.; $7.50 postpaid 
from: One World Family Travel Network 
81868 Lost Valley Lane, Dexter, OR 97431 
(503) 937-3351 
Earthstewards Network/Holyearth Foundation 
P. O. Box 10697, Bainbridge Island, WA 98110 
(206) 842-7986, (206) 285-7363 
Contact: Danaan Parry 
The Earthstewards Network organizes year-round 
citizen diplomacy trips to the USSR, Northern 
Ireland, and Costa Rica to promote sharing and 
working with others in their homes, workplaces, 
and schools. Several 3-4 week specialized groups, 
such as women, children, sheep farmers, garden- 
ers, and the disabled have been organized. They 
also have a “Peace-Trees” project with Soviet, US, 
Indian & Costa Rican teenagers, an exchange 
between US & Soviet Veterans of recent wars and 
an on-going global network of members. 
ECOTOURISM 103 
Earthwatch 
Would you like to participate in a real scientific 
expedition? You can, by joining one of the many 
sponsored by this group. Yeah, you have to pay 
them instead of them paying you, but you'll learn a 
lot, and you'll actually be doing something useful 
with your time and (tax-deductible) money. 
There’s a wide range of expeditions, here and 
abroad. You get to choose from numerous proj- 
ects in rainforest ecology, archeology, geology, 
marine sciences, life sciences, and social sci- 
ences. You're going to work hard, though most 
schedules include time off for local explorations. 
I’ve heard few complaints. Fellowships may be 
available. You must be 16-85, and in appropriate 
health. Tempting! —JB 
Earthwatch, $25/year membership (includes 
bimonthly Earthwatch magazine with list of 
expeditions, invitational events, eligibility for all 
expeditions) from: Earthwatch, 680 Mt. Auburn 
Street, P.O. Box 403, Watertown, MA 02172 
(617) 926-8200 
Island Rain Forest (//ha do Cardoso, Brasil) 
Field Conditions: Teams, working in shifts day and 
night, will search for caiman nests; observe the 
animals’ behavior; record the local habitat; map 
streams, swamps, and other topographic features; 
photograph animals and their habitats; and enter 
data in computers. They will also set traps for 
other reptiles and amphibians, collect any animals 
that are caught (Snakes will be handled only by 
staff members), and help set up a photographic 
index of the island’s species. 
Teams will stay in research station houses and 
dormitories, which have some electricity, running 
water, and flush toilets. Meals will be prepared by 
station staff. Because the island is so close to 
shore and major cities, there will also be occa- 
sional access to restaurants. Music makes up a 
regular part of the Brazilian culture and the life of 
the camp as well. Both Moulton and Magnussen 
play instruments, as do most of the Brazilian staff 
members; volunteers are encouraged to join in. 
Related interests: photography, mapping, comput- 
ers, biology, drawing. 
With each rainforest tree cut down, the broad- 
nosed caiman is a little closer to extinction. 
Caimans are primarily tropical, small crocodiles; 
Latin America has spawned a proliferation of 
species. Most are under seven feet long, but the 
black caiman can reach fifteen feet (including the 
powerful tail). 
Elderhostel 
We have reviewed Elderhostel in our earlier Cat- 
alogs as an excellent program for people over 60 
(spouses under 60 and companions over 50 are 
welcome too) who want to learn and travel both in 
the U.S. and abroad inexpensively. But what 
makes it of particular interest for this Ecolog is that 
among the huge assortment of wonderful classes 
and seminars offered in the U.S. and Canada there 
are over 120 environmental programs each year. 
From Alaska to British Columbia to Maine and all 
those parts south to the Mexican border classes 
are given in Environmental Defense, How We Use 
Our Forests, Organic Gardening, Desert Ecology, 
Environmental Theater, Biosphere II Project, Old 
Growth Forest Ecology and Management, Environ- 
mental Ethics, and over 100 more. 
| know from first and second hand experience of 
Elderhostel’s wonderfulness. My in-laws have par- 
ticipated in five different Elderhostel programs in 
the last three years and have enjoyed them 
thoroughly. From my own experience | found the 
staff at Elderhostel most helpful and willing to 
accommodate special needs. 
Elderhostel is a great way to travel, meet like- 
minded people from different places, and learn 
how to do your part. —Susan Erkel Ryan 
Elderhostel; Catalog free from: Elderhostel, Inc 
80 Boylston Street, Suite 400, Boston, MA 
02116; (617) 426-8056 
BRITISH COLUMBIA, Galiano Island/Therah 
Learning Center. Galiano Island, a jewel in the 
Gulf of Georgia, is just an hour’s ferry ride from 
Vancouver or Victoria. Many of this rural island 
community's 850 residents are artists and crafts- 
people who draw inspiration from the delightful 
environment. A year-round mild, sunny climate, 
magnificent arbutus trees, sculpted sandstone 
seashores and a diversity of wildlife entice explor- 
ers. Accomodation at Bodega Resort — large 
comfortable chalets and dining hall set on 25 
seaview acres. 
* Trees—Guardians of the Earth, Apr 1-7, 1990, 
#61410-0401-1. Forests are to some the earth’s 
sacred mantle and to others a resource to be ex- 
tracted. Explore the symbolic and environmental 
significance of trees and forests and compare 
industrial tree farming with community forestry. 
Good Life Study Tours 
A month-long homestay in Kerala in South India 
will change your sense of what is and is not 
necessary for the good life. These modest tours 
are actually seminars consisting of ten of you and 
ten English-speaking local associates, working 
together on problems of consumption, develop- 
ment, and living lightly as world citizens. It is not, 
as the brochure makes plain, “a thinking person's 
Club Med,” and neither is the price. Adventure 
seems likely. It’s too new for a personal recom- 
mendation, but it does seem like a good idea. If 
you give it a try, let us know how it went. —JB 
Good Life Study Tours; Information free from: 
Institute for Food and Development Policy 
Good Life Study Tours, 145 Ninth Street 
San Francisco, CA 94103; (415) 864-8555 
The modest consumption patterns of Kerala are a 
major factor maintaining life quality. Garbage and 
junk are nearly unknown. Air is free of industrial 
pollutants. Intensive farming satisfies vegetarian 
diets supplemented by fish. The combination of 
good life with very low per capita incomes is an 
unexplained mystery in modern economic science. 
We must seek our understanding of the Kerala 
good life in older, non-monetary virtues such as 
compassion, cooperation, thrift, and artistry. 
See Also... 
Oceanic Society Expeditions, page 15. 
