12 GLOBAL WARMING 
Gros WARMING — the 
“Greenhouse Effect” — is hotly 
debated. The idea that human air 
pollutants might cause the Earth 
to warm is a century old. The high 
temperatures and drought of 1988 
coincided with climatologist James 
Hansen, director of the NASA 
Goddard Institute For Space Stud- 
ies, saying before a subcommittee 
of the Senate that he was very 
certain global warming was at 
hand. The ensuing controversy 
attracted the media, and we en- 
tered Stephen Schneider's era of 
“Mediarology.” 
ABSORBED BY 
SURFACE (45) 
The papers reviewed here are 
only a sampler from a wide spectrum of views. At 
one extreme one finds the “It’s a Hoax” and the 
“Not to Worry” crowd. These writers tend to focus 
on some narrow aspect, for example the last 10 
years of weather data, or confine their analysis to 
to impacts of CO, while ignoring other greenhouse 
gasses. At the other extreme are the “Worst- 
casers.” Much of their fodder comes from taking 
the upper range of computer models, sometimes 
coupling this with the most drastic recent weather 
events. A minority — getting smaller — holds that 
an ice age will result from atmospheric pollution. 
The majority view is that global warming is likely, 
but with much uncertainty about when, where, and 
what the impacts might be. Even if 1990 is another 
record year, it won't suffice as scientific proof. 
My view is that the greenhouse effect must be 
taken seriously because if emerging trends 
become destiny, we won't be able to apply a quick 
fix to the ultimate commons, our atmosphere. To 
decide to do nothing is to decide something: 
business as usual. Tucked inside wait-and-see 
postures is the hope that things may not be so bad 
after all. Maybe, but | wouldn’t bet the planet on it! 
And | will be sorry if Global Climate Change head- 
lines obscure solid information on smog, ozone 
increases at ground level, ozone depletion in the 
stratosphere, acid precipitation and adverse health 
effects from dirty air, all begging for action now. 
—Dr. Jean A. Merriman, Professor 
School of Environmental Studies and Planning 
Sonoma State University, Rohnert Park, CA 94928 
UE SSS 
NE 
The Greenhouse Trap 
Changing the basic human actions which cause 
air pollution means changing the basic human be- 
ing, for there is nothing so fundamental about us 
as energy use, agriculture, and having children 
(the population factor). First in a series of World 
Resources Institute Guides to the Environment, 
The Greenhouse Trap is a very well-written book 
which provides a good balance between doubt 
and worst-case scenarios. Brief side-bar summa- 
ries on such topics as the ozone holes help the 
reader get up-to-speed in related areas. WRI 
(1709 New York Ave., NW, Washington, DC 
20006) is a non-profit group which seeks ways to 
meet basic human needs and to nurture economic 
growth without degrading the environment and so 
half of the book is devoted to solutions to the 
global warming problem. —Jean A. Merriman 
The Greenhouse Trap, 
Francesca Lyman; 1990; 
190 pp.; $9.95 ($12.70 
postpaid) from: Beacon 
Press, 25 Beacon Street, 
Boston, MA 02108; 
(800) 631-8571 WEA 
Tar Gueewuoust 
TRAP 
INCOMING 
RADIATION (100) 
REFLECTED SOLAR 
RADIATION (30) 
EMITTED BY 
ATMOSPHERE (66) 
REFLECTED BY 
ATMOSPHERE (25) 
ABSORBED BY 
rr 
ATMOSPHERE (25) 
et 
I 
nena 
REFLECTED BY 
SURFACE (5) 
RADIATED BY 
SURFACE (104) 
EVAPORATION (24) 
| 
(Above) The earth’s radiation energy balance, 
which controls the way the greenhouse effect 
works, can be seen graphically here. The numbers 
in parentheses represent energy as a percentage 
of the average solar constant — about 340 watts 
per square meter — at the top of the atmosphere. 
Note that nearly half the incoming solar radiation 
penetrates the clouds and greenhouse gases to 
the earth’s surface. These gases and clouds re- 
radiate most (i.e., 88 units) of the absorbed energy 
back down toward the surface. This is the mecha- 
nism of the greenhouse effect. —Gl/obal Warming 
Global Warming 
A look at the global warming issue through the 
eyes of a noted scientist in the field of climatology, 
Stephen Schneider. 
Departing from the cloisters of science, he has ap- 
peared on television and authored non-technical 
books such as this one. In this book’s dedication 
to his own children he expresses the hope “that 
their generation will be more creative in adapting 
to the greenhouse century than mine has been in 
preventing it.” He is relentless in pointing out the 
scientific uncertainties, and there are many. Still, 
he brings us to the crux of the matter of how im- 
portant is it? “A degree or two temperature change 
is not a trivial number in global terms and it usually 
takes nature hundreds to thousands of years to 
bring it about on her own. We may be doing that in 
decades. .. 
. Humans are putting pollutants into 
the atmosphere at such a rate that we could be 
changing the climate on a sustained basis some 
ten to hundred times faster than nature has since 
the height of the last ice age.” —Jean A. Merriman 
Global Warming: Are We En- 
tering the Greenhouse Century? 
Stephen Schneider; 1989: 317 
pp.; $18.95 ($21.95 postpaid) 
_ 
| from: Sierra Club Books, 730 
{, | Polk St., San Francisco, CA 
94109; (415) 923-5500 * WEA 
In 1989, the first “carbon offset” project was 
launched with considerable fanfare. The equiva- 
lent of the 15 million tons of carbon that will be 
emitted over 40 years from a coal-burning power 
plant built in Connecticut by Applied Energy Serv- 
ices will be absorbed by an enormous woodilot in a 
combined forestry and agricultural project in 
Guatemala. The energy company donated $2 
million to this maiden effort, and CARE, the Peace 
Corps, the U.S. Agency for International Develop- 
ment, and the Guatemalan Forestry Department 
are also chipping in. Altogether, some 52 million 
trees will be planted in what the National Geo- 
graphic calls “the most sensible and imaginative 
program yet conceived to put the industrialized 
world’s money where its mouth is.” 
INFRARED 
RADIATION (70) 
Least-Cost Energy 
This book attracted little notice 
when it appeared in 1982 — the 
political climate on both sides of 
the fence made its importance 
hard to see. Too bad. If this 
analysis had been taken seri- 
ously then, we’d have a decade’s 
experience solving the energy 
and pollution problems that are 
now so popular. The analysis is 
still valid, and continues to be the 
strongest credible argument for 
energy efficiency as the most 
effective means of reducing un- 
desirable atmospheric changes. 
Equally important, nuclear power 
is shown to be an ineffective 
option despite finding new favor with certain 
prominent scientists. Indeed, the Lovinses and 
their colleagues show that investment in nuclear 
power would actually worsen global warming! As 
TER OS f= 
GREENHOUSE 
pags (88) 
‘with everything published by Rocky Mountain 
Institute (see p. 57), this assertion is backed by 
solid facts and specific, realistic recommendations 
for action. | consider their tough talk damn near 
irrefutable, despite squeaks of protest from the 
opposition. Now we know what to do. —JB 
Least-Cost Energy: Solving the CO, Problem 
Amory B.Lovins, L. Hunter Lovins, 
= 
FlorentinKrause, Wilfrid Bach; 
1989 (2nd ed.); 184 pp.; $30 post- 
paid from: Rocky Mountain Institute 
1739 Snowmass Creek Road 
Snowmass, CO 81654-9199 
The Impacts of Global 
Warming On California 
The California Energy Commission was mandated 
to carry out an assessment of the impacts of 
global warming on the state. The interim report 
does an outstanding job of bringing a global issue 
down to the level where we live. It is an excellent 
example for those states and regions which have 
yet to look down the road at the what-ifs of global 
warming. The report evaluates a range of pro- 
jected impacts, both beneficial and adverse, upon 
water prices, agricultural output, investment risk, 
infrastructure needs, energy prices, transportation 
systems, and balance of trade. Good graphics 
make complex processes understandable. Such 
advance planning seems like taking out an 
insurance policy for something we hope won't 
happen and it seems prudent to consider the risks 
from global warming in this light. The politically 
sensitive final report has been delayed and may 
emerge in a watered down form. However, the 
very useful Interim Report is available. 
—Jean A. Merriman 
The Impacts of Global Warming 
on California (An Interim Re- 
port); California Energy Com- 
mission; 1989; 148 pp.; free 
(1 copy) from: California Energy 
Commission, Publication Office 
1516 9th Street, Sacramento, CA 
95814; (916) 324-3016 
Typical Northern 
Sierra Watershed 
Area Lost 
1509 
Elevated 
Present 
AREA LOST DUE TO SNOWPACK ELEVATION 
