COHOUSING 73 
Cohousing: 
A Contemporary Approach 
to Housing Ourselves 
Like many innovative housing ideas, this one start- 
ed in Denmark where there are more than a hun- 
dred cohousing projects in operation. The Danes 
use the word bofaellesskaber — living communi- 
ties. These are not communes or condos, though 
there are some similarities. People own their 
homes, but also share mutually owned amenities 
built into the project. Those might include gardens, 
a library, laundry, and workshops. Many have 
community dining — a boon for singles and sen- 
iors. (Eating together — “commensality” — is one 
of the best community “glues” available). Single 
parents find child care easily, and kids are safer 
because cars are banished to peripheral parking 
lots. There is little crime. In short, cohousing is a 
good way to live. Surprisingly, it can be more 
affordable than many less desirable alternatives. 
This beautiful and convincing book translates the 
concept into a form that we can put to work here. It 
has inspired many of the more than 40 cohousing 
projects being planned or built in the U.S. at this 
time. But there are many ways to do cohousing — 
“as many ways as there are people interested in 
living this way,” asserts Virginia Thigpen, who is 
developing a cohousing project in Davis, Califor- 
nia. As she tended her garden in Village Homes 
(see next page) which she helped build, Ms. 
Thigpen cautioned us to remember that the 
Cohousing book is the only one available at this 
time, and is only one viewpoint. There is a tempta- 
tion to use its ideas blindly, substituting expert 
opinion for personal innovation. That can lead to 
“buying into a lifestyle,” which is rarely satisfying in 
the long run. She told us that in Denmark, each 
cohousing group is different. Though the newer 
ones may be structured by covenants, the older 
groups do not need to strive to be a community — 
they already are one. Experience allows flexibility 
without so many rules. Smaller cliques of like- 
minded individuals can operate within the larger 
cohousing scheme without disrupting it. “It takes 
time to evolve. It’s taken 16 years to see what 
works for them,” she said. “The important thing is 
that it works.” My guess is that it is going to work 
here, too, after a bit of cuttin’ & fittin’. —JB 
(Taped interview by Richard Nilsen. Our thanks to 
Virginia Thigpen for her time.) 
| know | live in a community because on a Friday 
night it takes me 45 minutes and two beers to get 
from the parking lot to my front door. 
—Trudeslund resident 
Jerngarden residents have pion doors facing the street, but 
a ratay 
enter through their backyard commons so they can visit with neighbors. 
(Above) Row houses with small front gardens line the ped- 
With a lot of imagination and 
two years of sweat equity, the 
residents of Jerngarden 
transformed an inner city 
junkyard and eight deterio- 
rated rowhouses into an 
urban paradise. By combining 
their backyards, they created 
a small park in the middle of 
the city block. 
Jerngarden residents are still 
active in the neighborhood 
organization they helped to 
start. Since most of them lived 
in the area before, they have 
many friends nearby who 
often participate in the com- 
munity’s parties. 
A community 
center has been built a few 
blocks away, and many 
buildings have been reno- 
vated. Some say that Jern- 
garden was the impetus that 
inspired other improvements. 
estrian streets of Trudesiund, where much of the community’s 
socializing takes place. (Left) Although their community was 
built at the same density as the single-family houses in the 
area, Trudeslund residents chose to cluster the 33 dwellings 
along two pedestrian streets, localize parking, and preserve 
the wooded portion of the site. (Below left) A child sets the 
table for dinner in the Trudeslund common house. (Below) A 
new 48-community cohousing development near Copenhagen. 
The first of four phases includes one privately financed 
community, three cooperatives, 
——-—.----.-_ 
__ 
and one non-profit-owned 
ie 
: 
rental complex 
ware 
aoe 
nit 
se 
= EWN Bs 
=F 
Beng 
a WE 
of, Lede) 
na 
WE a 
We 
Cohousing 
Kathryn McCamant 
and Charles Durrett 
1989; 208 pp. 
$19.95 ($21.95 postpaid) 
from: Ten Speed Press 
P.O: Box 4123 
Berkeley, CA 94707 
(800) 841-2665 %*WEA 
ee 
The CoHousing Company™ 
In addition to authoring the Cohousing book, 
Kathryn McCamant and Charles Durrett have a 
development company dedicated to building Co- 
Housing communities. They give introductory slide- 
lectures and workshops, and maintain a national 
referral network of people interested in cohousing 
life. This last is important — it takes a determined 
and clever group to actually build cohousing. Once 
the group is together, The CoHousing Company 
staff assists the whole complex process of acquir- 
ing land, financing everything, getting the permits, 
and designing the project — all things that would 
be very difficult to do on your own (unless you are 
already a developer). —JB 
The CoHousing Company, 48 Shattuck Square, 
Suite 15, Berkeley, CA 94704; (415) 549-9980 
Ate pei! 
wet 
oo 
r ASI 
=u 
ine 
