BIODOMES 83 
qualities. But Heat Mirror doesn’t entirely block the 
sun; if it did, a building would not be able to 
capture solar heat in the winter. Shading needs 
another material. Day Chahroudi has come up 
with it at last. His company, Suntek, calls it Cloud 
Gel®. This material is sandwiched between two 
layers of transparent plastic. When the sandwich 
reaches its designed temperature, it quickly turns 
a sun-reflecting opaque white. As the temperature 
cools, full transparency is restored. 
This neatly and automatically takes care of the 
biggest problem with transparent buildings: 
Suntek 
The New Alchemy Institute 
Twenty-one years ago, the Alkies set out to 
“restore the lands, protect the seas, and inform the 
Earth’s stewards” — all that in addition to raising 
kids, running homes, and scraping together the 
necessary money. They've found that money is 
there for exploratory work if it is done according to 
accepted scientific standards. New Alchemy has 
been careful to avoid a reputation for funkiness, 
and so has received support from a host of grant- 
givers, including the National Science Foundation. 
Like many groups (including Whole Earth) loosely 
dubbed “New Age” by media dumbheads, New 
Alchemy eventually suffered from success. 
They’ve-long advocated and innovated organic 
food-raising, alternative energy, conservation of 
resources, and nonpolluting, sustainable ways of 
living — all demonstrated on their 12 acre spread 
on Cape Cod. When they started, that sort of thing 
was unheard of. Now it’s mainstream to the extent 
of being trendy. While success has stolen a bit of 
New Alchemy’s thunder, it has also raised a 
demand for their expertise. Thus the Alkies enter 
their third decade as consultants and teachers. 
Oh, there’s still plenty of research going on; good 
teachers must stay ahead of the game. 
The Institute offers all manner of apprenticeships, 
training programs, kid’s classes, courses for 
academic credit, and lectures. They host thou- 
sands of visitors every year. They act as a clearing 
house for worldwide environmental consulting, an 
act made easier by the small army of ex-Alkies out 
there (1 among them) and the irrefutable useful- 
ness of their past work. If | starred everything in 
this Ecolog that has been written, accomplished or 
directly influenced by New Alchemists and friends, 
it'd look like the Milky Way. —JB 
The New Alchemy Institute, $35/year (includes 
a subscription to New Alchemy Journal, free ad- 
mission for tours, reduced tuition for courses, 
20% discount on publications); Information free 
from: The New Alchemy Institute, 237 Hatchville 
Road, East Falmouth, MA 02536; 
(508) 564-6301 
summer overheating. The advantage is particularly 
notable in dome-shaped structures; if highly 
reflective, domes will automatically develop an air 
circulation phenomenon that dramatically drops 
the interior temperature to about 15% less than 
that of its surroundings. 
(This effect was discovered by Buckminster Fuller 
during World War II. | can personally attest that it 
occurs as claimed, and that it will work whether the 
dome is insulated or not. PhD, anyone?) 
The most effective temperature control will occur 
when Heat Mirror and Cloud Gel are used together 
as Day proposed in 1970 
before either material 
had been developed. | 
would guess that it is 
being tried now, perhaps 
by Day himself in one of 
his Climatic Envelopes, a 
version of the bioshelter 
This is a model of 
Suntek’s proposed 4000 
sq.ft. headquarters 
building. Imagine how it 
would feel working in 
there at your desk under 
the trees, the balmy 
interior climate controlled 
without resort to furnace 
or air conditioner. 
Liz 
Fial 
New Alchemy Institute’s 31 ft. Pillowdome is 
skinned with Dupont Tefzel® pillows inflated with 
inert argon gas for insulation. Despite weighing 
only 450 Ibs., hurricanes and snow loads have not 
been a problem. 
he proposed 15 years ago. In any case, Day’s 
efforts make possible self-regulating buildings with 
skins that act rather like our own. This capability 
combined with twenty years of bioshelter green- 
house experience make possible a truly new 
architecture; buildings that give more than they 
take. The next move is clear. 
Suntek (Energy Materials for Buildings Through 
Molecular Design), Information free from: 
Suntek, Inc., 6817A Academy Parkway 
Albuquerque, NM 87109 
The Windstar Foundation 
John Denver and Thomas Crum founded Windstar 
in 1976, to help create a more healthy environ- 
ment through demonstration, research projects, 
and education. Windstar programs have empha- 
sized personal and interpersonal development as 
well as ecology, noting that all must be healthy in 
a sustainable community. Like New Alchemy, 
Windstar has extensive organic gardens, a com- 
mercial-scale bioshelter, and an energy-efficient 
headquarters. They give lectures and workshops 
and sponsor symposia, including their famous 
annual “Choices for the Future” event. The good 
work gets spread around — they have Windstar 
Connection programs all over the world, executing 
The grapevine growing happily under the roof an- 
nounces harvest time by dropping grapes into the 
hexagonal pool, changing the water to a pale pink. 
projects that encourage the building of a sustain- 
able society. 
Windstar (now in partnership with the National 
Wildlife Federation) enters the 90s with advanced 
bioshelter research, and a comprehensive educa- 
tion effort that includes a cultural exchange 
program and lots of new publications from their 
Earth Pulse project (p. 109). Visitors, volunteers, 
participants, supporters, and sometimes appren- 
tices, welcome. —JB 
The Windstar Foundation, $35/year (includes 
subscription to Windstar Journal); Information 
free from: The Windstar Foundation, 2317 
Snowmass Creek Road, Snowmass, CO 81654- 
9198; (303) 927-4777 or (800) 669-4777 
Living Under Glass 
Recent surveys have shown most people use their 
sunspace or attached greenhouse as a family 
room instead of as a garden. Sure, they have 
plants in there, but the main attraction is aesthetic. 
The natural light, the often (but not always) 
pleasant climate, and the feeling of being in a 
private, protected outdoors are charming effects, 
particularly in a city home. People like being under 
glass. That charm is captured nicely in this 
collection of exceptional color photographs of 
occasionally lived-in greenhouses, old and new, 
from many countries. They make you want live 
that way. In a bioshelter, perhaps? —JB 
Living Under Glass 
(Sunrooms, Greenhouses, 
and Conservatories) 
Jane Tresidder and 
Stafford Cliff 
1986; 166 pp. 
$22.50 ($27 postpaid) from: 
Publisher's Central Bureau 
1 Champion Avenue 
Avenel, NJ 07001 
(201) 382-7960 
**WEA 
¥ 
2 
KE 
th HArrOROeent 
