24 WETLANDS 
arate. Eacu BIOREGION has its own: cienaga, 
AA tanque, branch, creek, swamp, marsh, bog, glade, 
“AF slough, swale, wallow, bottoms, bayou, oxbow, pool, 
Izaak Walton League of 
America 
An old conservation group with a distinct midwest- 
pond, brook, run, kill. Wetlands define bioregion 
personality, create the intimacy with the local 
lore and the local pacing of nature. Sources and 
springs used to be held in the highest regard .. 
. 
a few hot springs still remain associated with 
healing and a few springs have been given a 
second lease on life by the bottled water busi- 
ness. But water is so precious to commodity 
production (irrigated crops, cattle forage, land- 
filling and channelization for real estate, cooling 
power plants, etc.) that wetlands are our number 
one endangered ecological and cultural region. 
In the United States, there are fewer free-flowing 
rivers of any length than living condors. River- 
life, duck hunting, trout fishing, swimming, 
boating ... many of the areas Americans use for 
escape are disappearing, just as the desire for 
open water floods our hearts. —Peter Warshall 
National Wetlands 
Newsletter 
For those interested in the legal and policy 
aspects of wetland restoration, this newsletter is 
definitely worth reviewing. Wetland mitigation, 404 
permitting, “no net loss,” and other wetland issues 
- are discussed in guest columns. Standard features 
include updates on federal legislative action, perti- 
nent legal suits, as well as to-the-point book 
reviews and a detailed events calendar. | always 
look forward to this engaging publication. 
—Dave Egan 
National Wetlands News- 
letter, Nicole Veilleux, 
Editor; $48/year (6 issues) 
from: Environmental Law 
Institute, 16 P Street NW, 
Suite 200, Washington, 
DC 20036; (202) 328-5150 
The Coalition for the Conser- 
vation of Aquatic Habitat — 
otherwise known as FISH — is a rather unlikely 
alliance. 
. 
. 
. After agreeing that they had been 
unable to wield enough force individually to effect 
the preservation of fisheries habitat, the coalition’s 
members decided that “it would be more fun to 
Adopting a Wetland 
Adopting a Stream (p. 22) has spawned, so to 
speak, the next book in what’s beginning to look 
like an adopt-the-entire-watershed series. It’s a 
guide to learning what a wetland is, who lives in it, 
and how to take care of them. It’s intended for the 
Pacific Northwest, but the methods and general 
approach will work anywhere. The community 
action part so well delineated in Adopting a 
Stream is not repeated here. You'll need it, so buy 
both books. —JB 
WET MEADOW 
i 
fad 
EAI 
Great Blue Heron 
Wetlands 
Audubon’s Wetlands is the best of Audubon sur- 
vey guides written by one of the finest ecologists to 
immerse himself in the subject. —Peter Warshall 
Wetlands 
William A. Niering 
1985; 638 pp.; $16.95 
($18.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
(800) 733-3000 %*WEA 
Wetlands evoke powerful emotions. To some they 
are dark, mysterious, forbidding places, to be 
avoided at all costs. 
. 
.. Perhaps one of the most 
memorable descriptions of a wetland occurs in Sir 
Arthur Conan Doyle’s “The Hound of the Basker- 
villes,” in which he describes the Great Grimpen 
Mire, where the villain meets his horrible fate: 
“Rank weeds and lush, slimy water plants 
send an odour of decay and a heavy mias- 
matic vapor into our faces, while a false step 
plunged us more than once thigh-deep into 
the dark, quivering mire, which shook for 
yards in soft undulations around our feet.” 
This is surely a masterful description of a bog, one 
of North America’s most fascinating wetlands. 
fight over more fish to harvest than less fish.” And 
thus, the FISH Coalition was born. 
@ 
United States v. Key West Towers, No. 87-10034-Civ-King, 20 
ELR_____(S.D. Fla. Aug. 10, 1989). Following a jury ver- 
dict in July of 1988 that found the defendant liable for filling 
wetlands adjacent to U.S. waters and therefore within the Army 
Corps of Engineers’ jurisdiction under §404 of the Federal Water 
Pollution Control Act, the court ordered the defendant to restore 
the site to its original condition and either pay a $250,000 civil 
penalty or deed the 1.9-acre pond and the 50-foot buffer zone 
to a charitable organization that will appropriately maintain the 
wetlands in perpetuity. [See National Wetlands Newsletter ‘‘In 
the Courts,’’ Vol. 11, No. 1.] 
a 
Al NG 
WET! LAND 
sy 
\ 
* 
XX s 
Adopting A 
Wetland, Steve Yates 
1989; 38 pp.; $5 ($7 post- 
paid) from: The Adopt-A 
Stream Foundation 
P.O. Box 5558 
Everett, WA 98206 
fo 
A 
ll eet 
ASTUTE YI) SOREL, 
TEE OTS 
1. Horsetail, 2. Buttercup, 3. Marsh speedwell, 4. Bulrush, 5. Sedges, 6. Reed canarygrass, 7. Horsetail, 8. 
Skunk cabbage, 9. Bur-reed, 10. Yellow monkey flower, 11. Spike rush, 12. Soft rush, 13. Dock 
patasual 
mn: 
L 
Sh) 
ern twang. Rooted morality. Never upstarts. Found- 
ed in 1922 by people interested in good fishing, 
they are hard, persevering workers who maintain, 
protect, and restore soil, forests, water and air. A 
wholesome 50,000 members. Publishers Outdoor 
America and has an endowment fund to purchase 
unique natural areas. —Peter Warshall 
These days the League is especially active in the 
prevention of poaching. They also are on the front 
lines of the fight to prevent Disneyfication of 
National Parks. Typical of these good folks. —JB 
Izaak Walton League of 
America; $20/year 
(membership includes 
4 issues of Outdoor 
America and Splash, a 
quarterly newsletter) from: 
1401 Wilson Blvd., Level B 
Arlington, VA 22209; 
(703) 528-1818 
Ducks Unlimited 
This 500,000-member organization has been re- 
sponsible for the preservation of more waterbird 
breeding grounds (especially marshlands) than any 
government or other group. Working internationally 
(ducks haven't learned about Canadian, U.S., and 
Mexican boundaries), Ducks Unlimited restores, 
manages, and purchases wetlands throughout 
North American waterfowl flyways. 
—Peter Warshall 
Their magazine is both 
intelligent and beautiful. 
—Don Ryan 
Ducks Unlimited 
$20/year membership 
(includes subscription 
to bi-monthly magazine, 
Ducks Unlimited) 
from: One Waterfowl Way 
Long Grove, IL 60047 
(708) 438-4300 
Sane EE SNE VIPS MES WA De Cen aie el Se Spa 
eee 
Trout Unlimited 
TU bill themselves as “The Action Organization” 
with good cause: for 30 years their 65,000 mem- 
bers (distributed among 400 chapters) have been a 
major force in the fight for clean water. While 
fishing, rather than environmentalism, is their 
focus, they’ve long realized the importance of 
pollution control, cleaning up streams, and sound 
watershed management. TU has not always 
enjoyed good relations with certain environmental 
organizations whose purist members deplore 
‘killing fish.” But a look at the record shows TU to 
be indisputably at the forefront of effective action, 
both in the field and in legislatures. TU members 
receive a great (mouthwatering) magazine. What's 
good for fish is usually good for all of us. —JB 
Trout Unlimited 
$20/year (membership 
includes 4 issues of 
Trout magazine); Contact 
your local chapter or 
Trout Unlimited 
501 Church Street, NE 
#103, Vienna, VA 22180 
(703) 281-1100 
