18 RAINFORESTS 
Va NEW TO RAINFORESTS, primed by the purple prose that characterizes almost all writ- 
ing on the subject, are often disappointed not to find the trees dripping with bizarre and 
brilliant flowers and the air reverberating with the cries and howls of exotic creatures. The 
forest does not advertise itself; the overwhelming impression is of a green stillness. 
—In the Rainforest 
di TROPICAL HUMID FORESTS, aka “rainforests,” form a somber, green 
girdle around the equator. Shrouded in clouds, known for their steamy heat, they may 
support as many as one hundred species of trees in a single acre. Here is access to the 
fastest disappearing bioregion of the planet. —Peter Warshall 
WN Rainforests 
It’s a pretty 
straightforward 
proposition: If we 
destroy our rain- 
forests, and the 
millions of species 
of insects, birds, 
plants and trees 
that live in them, 
Earth will be unin- 
habitable, at least 
by people as we 
know us. 
Rainforest Action Network 
And we are, of course, killing the forests, at a hor- 
rendous rate. That much is beyond debate. The 
good news is that we can do something about it. 
‘As with any self-cure, the first step is education. 
When Catherine Caufield’s In the Rainferest ap- 
peared in 1984, most laypeople hardly knew what 
a rainforest was. That’s changed, mightily, and 
due in no small part to Caufield’s book (it’s been 
translated into thirteen languages). Above all, 
she’s a good reporter. In a hard-nosed, fact-filled, 
highly readable style she takes you into rainforests 
around the world — the Amazon, Indonesia, 
Malaysia, Africa. You get history, you get science, 
you get a close dissection of the colossally twisted 
workings of Big Business and the so-called 
“development” institutions that are the primary 
funders of rainforest destruction. 
In the years since In the Rainforest was pub- 
lished, the numbers have changed — they’re 
worse — but the paradigms have not. Meanwhile, 
our overall fund of rainforest knowledge has 
increased exponentially. Lessons of the Rain- 
Rainforests 
forest will bring you up to date. It’s a tool chest of 
articles that offers the insights of biologist, ecolo- 
gist, historian, anthropologist, lawyer, economist, 
and activist to find alternatives to rainforest 
destruction. Among the twenty-four contributors 
are Norman Myers, Anne and Paul Ehrlich, 
Frances Moore Lappé, and Jason Clay. 
Lesson number one from the rainforest, as 
presented here, is: Everything is connected. We 
can’t save the rainforests if we don't change how 
we live. 
We change first as individuals, as consumers, by 
understanding how intricately our daily lives — 
starting with that wake-up cup of rainforest-bred 
coffee — intertwine with the rainforest itself, a 
world that at first thought might seem dark, gooey, 
and terribly remote. Then we change as a society. 
One of the hundreds of well-made points in 
Lessons is that the U. S. tax dollar, via the World 
Bank and such 
other highly 
secretive invest- 
ment bodies as the 
Inter-American 
Development Bank, 
is still the principal 
destroyer of 
rainforests world- 
wide (though the 
Japanese timber 
industry is chal- 
lenging for that 
position). But 
recently, in direct 
response to 
pressure from 
outraged U. S. citizens, these institutions have 
finally begun to awaken to the environmental 
havoc they've caused. 
Rainforests 
Lessons of the Rainforest will teach you about 
the banks, about the forests themselves, about the 
people and plants and animals who live in them, 
and about what you can do to save what's left. 
And that may be the most important lesson: The 
rainforests can be saved, but only if we as indi- 
viduals act. Start by reading these books, then 
swing into action. Rainforest Action Network, the 
U. S. wing of the World Rainforest Movement, will 
outfit you with all the info you need to organize a 
local, grassroots Rainforest Action Group, and 
every month their Action Alert will tell you about a 
rainforest crisis somewhere around the globe and 
what you can do personally to help remedy it. 
Finally, and perhaps most importantly, try to see 
the rainforest for yourself. Rainforests: A Guide 
to Research and Tourist Facilities is the first 
reference book designed specifically for people 
who wish to visit a rainforest, whether to do 
research or simply to enjoy their beauty and 
biological diversity. Though it deals strictly with the 
New World tropics, it is quite thorough in describ- 
ing locations, logistics, forest types, trail systems, 
and the costs of visiting sites in seven of the most 
accessible countries. It also tells you how to 
contact lodge owners and field-station directors 
and where to find relevant books and maps. 
—Joe Kane 
Rainforests 
Veiled in the mysteries of ancient eras, the 
primeval rainforests seem to exist in a world apart, 
so remote that few temperate-zone dwellers have 
any appreciation of their value to our daily lives. 
Yet today and every day their disappearance is 
making our tax burdens heavier, the cost of living 
higher, the fascinating cultures of the world fewer, 
and the chances of survival on Earth slimmer. 
—Randall Hayes, Lessons of the Rainforest 
In the Rainforest, Catherine 
Caufield; 1984; 304 pp. 
$11.95 ($13.75 postpaid) from: 
University of Chicago Press 
11030 South Langley Ave. 
Chicago, IL 60628 
(800) 621-2736 #*WEA 
*esn the Rainforest 
Lessons of the Rainforest 
Suzanne Head and Robert 
Heinzman, Editors; 1990 
275 pp.; $14.95 ($17.95 
postpaid) from: Sierra Club 
Books, 730 Polk Street 
San Francisco, CA 94109 
(415) 923-5500 *WEA 
Rainforest Action 
Network; $25/year 
(includes 12 monthly 
Action Alerts & 4 World 
Rainforest Reports) from: 
Rainforest Action Network 
301 Broadway, Suite A 
San Francisco, CA 94133 
(415) 398-4404 
Rainforests (A Guide to 
Research and Tourist 
Facilities at Selected 
Tropical Forest Sites in 
Central and South America) 
James L. Castner, Ph.D 
1990; 416 pp.; $21.95 ($23.45 
postpaid) from: Feline Press 
P.O. Box 7219, Gainesville, FL 32605 9 WEA 
The main canopy of the forest is formed by the 
crowns of the middle strata of trees, generally 
those from 100 to 130 feet high. A few taller trees 
of the forest emerge from this canopy, too widely 
separated to form a continuous layer. Below the 
canopy are the shorter trees, 50 to 80 feet high, 
and the relatively sparse understory, consisting of 
shrubs, nonwoody plants, seedlings, and young 
trees. The forest floor is often bare, save for a thin 
litter of dead leaves. Superimposed on this 
framework are climbers and epiphytes, plants that 
occupy all levels and even move back and forth 
from one to another. —/n the Rainforest 
e@ 
Between 40 and 50 percent of all types of living 
