David Orr has a wonderful idea: make the cam- 
pus a model of ecologically sound policy, and use 
the accomplishing of that as a teaching tool. Obvi- 
ously and importantly right, it’s not so easy to do. 
He's doing it anyway. Watch this idea spread. 
How's your school doing? —JB 
The 
Campus ;, 
andthe 
& 
Biosphere 
By David Orr 
One of the greatest challenges facing 
environmental educators is to convey the serious- 
ness of environmental problems without inducing 
despair and paralysis. The vital signs of the planet 
are not good: that fact cannot be avoided. But 
students must be given opportunities to think 
creatively and act constructively to solve these 
problems in ways that produce practical results. 
How might this kind of learning occur? 
One possibility, with roots in the ancient Greek 
concept of paideia and the philosophy of John 
Dewey, is to regard the campus itself as a labora- 
tory and as the source of a large part of its curricu- 
lum. Every campus is a resource-processing 
system that takes in food, energy, materials, and 
water and discards wastes. Typically no thought is 
given to how these flows affect the biosphere, the 
local economy, or the prospect of building a 
sustainable world. Nor are they regarded as a way 
for students to learn about the real world they 
inhabit. The “curriculum” concerns other, more 
abstract things. The institutional functions of the 
campus largely reflect the emergence of nation- 
wide and global marketing systems that are often 
environmentally destructive, highly subsidized, 
and socially regressive. 
One obvious cost of this system is loss of the 
opportunity to consciously use the purchasing 
power of the institution to foster local and sustain- 
able economies. Another cost is the educational 
opportunity missed. The analysis of campus 
rsource flows is interdisciplinary and combines 
abstract, theoretical knowledge with practical 
realities. 
In the past two years the Meadowcreek Project, in 
Fox, Arkansas, initiated, funded, and conducted 
studies of the food systems of two liberal arts 
colleges: Hendrix College in Conway, Arkansas, 
and Oberlin College in Ohio. These studies were 
conceived as prototypes for a larger study of all 
resource flows that is to be started at St. Olaf 
College and Carleton College in Northfield, Minne- 
sota. In the Hendrix and Oberlin studies Mead- 
owcreek organized two teams of students to 
examine (1) where, how much, and at what cost 
food was purchased, and (2) what local and 
regional alternatives existed. Each team devel- 
oped a documentary record of its results and a 
video that was shown to the campus community. 
In the Hendrix study, for example, students discov- 
ered that the college was buying only 9 percent of 
its food in Arkansas, a state that is primarily 
agricultural. Beef was being purchased from feed 
lots in Texas and lowa and rice from Mississippi, 
although the college is just a few miles from cattle 
ranches and rice farms. The other team of Hendrix 
students, working with Meadowcreek staff mem- 
bers, discovered ample opportunities for the 
college to purchase a wide range of products 
locally. 
As a result of the Hendrix study, completed in 
THE ECOLOGICAL CAMPUS 123 
RI 
EON Ne ee 
January of 1988, the college has increased in- 
state purchases of beef and rice to 40 percent and 
has extended the idea to other purchases. The 
college has also hired a person to help in the 
transition to a more regional food system and in 
the ongoing effort to educate the campus commu- 
nity about the food system. More importantly, the 
study was educational in the highest sense. 
Students discovered, for example, that implemen- 
tation of a college “wellness policy” was not 
independent of the college’s purchase of feedlot 
beef which is laced with antibiotics and growth 
hormones. They also discovered that their well- 
ness was related to that of migrant laborers in 
California and endangered species in Costa Rica. 
In this case, unthinking application of the industrial 
metaphor to biological systems had led to cascad- 
ing undesirable effects that rippled through the 
system to the students on the Hendrix Campus. 
The fact that students themselves “discovered” 
this phenomenon heightened the educational 
impact. 
The Oberlin study, completed in November 1988, 
produced similar results. Students developed a 
detailed analysis of campus food systems (one a 
student-run cooperative, the other operated by the 
Marriott Corporation), 
a workbook describing 
general methods of resource flow analysis for 
other colleges, and a video documentary. The 
college is now studying the recommendations. 
The extension of this study at St. Olaf and Carle- 
ton to include energy, materials, water, and waste 
is designed to catalyze two immediate changes. 
The first is the development of campus policies for 
food, energy, architectural design, landscaping, 
water, materials, and organic and solid wastes that 
gradually shift the way the colleges spend their 
institutional budgets. Second, the study is in- 
tended to reinvigorate the liberal arts curriculum 
around the issues of the biosphere. This emphasis 
would become a permanent part of the curriculum 
through research projects, campus policies, 
academic courses, lecture series, and the estab- 
lishment of interdisciplinary programs in conserva- 
tion biology and environmental studies. The 
humanities, social sciences, and sciences all have 
important contributions to make in this dialogue. 
The campus as a resource processing system is a 
laboratory that can contribute to students’ intellec- 
tual breadth and practical competence. The study 
of resource flows combines theoretical knowledge 
across disciplinary lines with practical experience 
and introduces students to the art of solving real 
problems. Their participation in thinking through 
alternatives on their campus shows them that they 
can have a role in building a different kind of 
world. 
Alfred North Whitehead once complained that “the 
secondhandedness of the learned world is the 
secret of its mediocrity.” The study of the systems 
supplying the campus confronts students with 
firsthand knowledge and with the task of helping to 
create workable alternatives. Acquaintance with 
the mines, wells, forests, farms, feedlots, smoke- 
stacks, and dumps that service the campus 
confront students with firsthand knowledge of the 
most basic sort. Participation in developing 
alternatives can provide a dose of realism, hope, 
and skill in solving real problems. 
Readers who have examples of projects in 
conservation education, at any educational level, 
and those with new. ideas in conservation educa- 
tion, should send them to me at Oberlin College, 
Dept. of Environmental Studies, Oberlin, Ohio 
44074. 
Reprinted from: The Journal of Conservation Biology (see 
p. 33), Volume 3, No. 2, June 1989, by permission of 
Blackwell Scientific Publications, Inc.. The Journal comes 
with a membership in the Society for Conservation Biology, 3 
Cambridge Center, Cambridge, MA 02141; 617) 225-0401, 
$39.50/yr U.S., $51.50/yr outside U.S. plus $13 airmail. 
—Where Our Food Comes From: The 
Oberlin College Food System 
Meadowcreek 
David Orr is cofounder of Meadowcreek, an 
ecological education center in rural Arkansas. 
The notably beautiful campus is a model of the 
principles he suggests in this article, with 
energy-efficient buildings constructed from local 
materials, and food grown right on the land. The 
range of Meadowcreek programs and intern- 
Ships attracts people from high school (even 
some from the Soviet Union) through Elderhos- 
tel; the seminars are famous for tangling with 
difficult problems in applied ecology. Your 
support will bring you their excellent newsletter, 
Meadowcreek Notes — a good place to keep 
up with the pathfinders. —JB 
For more information contact: 
Meadowcreek, Fox, AR 72051 
GEES aa eee Wear ee nese acy Cane ae ee 
Meadowcreek Publications 
Meadowcreek publishes these materials to help 
you set up a campus system of your own. —JB 
Local Food Production for Local Needs. A 
Manual for the Analysis of a College or Univer- 
sity Food Service. $5 postpaid. 
A Proposal to Supply the Hendrix Food 
Service with Locally Produced Commodi- 
ties. This proposal was prepared by the 
student researchers and Meadowcreek staff. 
$5 postpaid. 
Where Our Food Comes From: The Hendrix 
College Food System. This 45 minute video, 
developed by the Hendrix College student 
research team, documents Hendrix’s role in 
the food system. $35 postpaid. 
Where Our Food Comes From. This 30 min- 
ute video, developed by the Oberlin student 
researchers, is more general than the Hendrix 
video and is geared to audiences on other col- 
lege and university campuses. $35 postpaid. 
Where Our Food Comes From: The Oberlin 
College Food System; and Where Our Food 
Comes From: The Oberlin Student Coop- 
erative Association Food Service. These 
reports were developed by the Oberlin student 
researchers and Meadowcreek staff. $5 each. 
All from: 
Meadowcreek, Fox, AR 72051 
@ 
RATIONALE FOR LOCAL BUYING 
Economic 
Reason 1: Avoided Transportation Costs 
Reason 2: Hidden Transportation Costs 
Reason 3: Economic Security 
Reason 4: Direct Purchasing 
Reason 5: Supports Local/Regional Farmers 
Reason 6: Multiplier Effect 
Health 
Reason 7: Freshness 
Reason 8: Chemical Residues 
Environment 
Reason 9: Fuel Efficiency 
Reason 10: Waste Reduction 
Community 
Reason Il: Food Origin 
Reason 12: People and Land 
