maintain the sort of control necessary for such a 
project). FHA turned him down. The Fire 
Department objected to the narrow streets. But 
Mike, as one of his friends put it “doesn’t take 
no for an answer.” He fought it through. (He’s 
now the Mayor of Davis, California where 
Village Homes is located.) 
Since then, fear of litigation has made it much 
harder to proceed with such projects, especially 
where a neighborhood association is involved. 
Lawsuit-resistance has taken precedent over 
innovation. Chickenhearted lenders will only 
consider conventional development; craven city 
governments complicate the permit process 
beyond the financial endurance of any who 
would try something new. But mostly, it’s a 
matter of will. A Village Homes would be 
harder to do now, but it can still be done. Mike 
is busy, so it’s going to have to be a very deter- 
mined and skilled someone else. Meantime, 
Village Homes stands as an inspiring example of 
what a sustainable city might look like. And it’s 
one of the very few developments not named for 
what was destroyed to make it. Mf 
Drainage “swales” hold rain runoff, making storm 
sewers unnecessary. The temporary ponds are 
designed to soak in before mosquitos can breed. 
Swales parallel bikepaths; may be graveled 
(above), mowed (above right), cobbled (right). 
This kid-oriented intersection (below) features a 
sandy play swale in summer; in winter it becomes 
a watercourse. Most swales offer appreciated 
“distant” views in otherwise confined landscape. 
(Above) Community garden vegetables are no 
longer sold to help defray costs of neighborhood 
upkeep and insurance; folks just don’t have the 
time anymore. They eat well, though, and most 
homes have their own gardens, too. Almost all the 
public landscaping is edible, professionally 
maintained, and community-accessible. The 
development as a whole is surrounded by a linear 
almond orchard which acts as a traffic-noise buf- 
fer and additional source of community income. 
(Right) Most homes have solar hot water heaters, 
but few have air conditioners despite summer 
temperatures that can top 100°F. Efficient design 
encourages efficient use; Village Homes utility 
bills average about 50% of those in a conventional 
development. 
VILLAGE HOMES 75 
Special thanks to Judy Corbett, Virginia Thigpen, and 
Richard Nilsen for information and assistance. 
A Better Place To Live 
This is a new edition of the story of how Village 
Homes came to be, by the man who made it 
happen. Lots of drawings and photos accom- 
pany a discussion of the philosophy and tough 
battles by hardworking, inspired people. You 
could use it as a beginner’s manual for prolifer- 
ating the breed. (The new edition isn’t yet 
available as we go to press, so no samples. 
Sorry). —JB 
A Better Place to Live, Michael Corbett 
(will be out in late 1990) from: 
agAccess, 603 4th Street, Davis 
CA 95616; (916) 756-7177 
