*WEA —- Available from Whole Earth Access, see p. 2. 
Foxfire 
Foxfire is a quarterly publication concerned with re- 
searching, recording and preserving Appalachian 
folk art, crafts and traditions. A typical issue con- 
tains articles on quilting, chairmaking, soap making, 
home remedies, mountain recipes, feather beds 
and home-made hominy, plus regional poetry and 
| 
PLATE 242 
As all old wagon makers did, 
|) Jud ‘saws the joints” between the felloes to 
| 
make the faces meet properly and to create a 
bit of slack space for the metal tire to pull 
| together as it shrinks around the wheel and 
creates dish. According to Jud, it is also ac- 
| ceptable to saw out a three-eighths-inch 
space between two felloes and leave the other 
| 
joints untouched. 
book reviews. 
One issue was 
entirely devoted to 
log cabin building. 
These are not 
superficial “fea- 
ture” articles, but 
definitive, detailed 
treatments of tra- 
ditional skills and 
crafts that have 
come close to 
dying out of our 
culture. 
Foxfire would be 
a credit to a group 
of professional 
folklorists. But 
when you consider 
that it is edited 
and published by 
high school kids at 
Rabun County 
High School in 
Clayton, Georgia, 
it becomes im- 
pressive indeed. 
The thing | like 
most about it is 
the way these kids 
are looking imme- 
diately around them for their inspiration, instead of 
taking cues from New York and California. In their 
own way, these people are as hip and sophisticated 
as any young people putting out a magazine on 
either coast. More so, even. They're cooler, more 
adult. Foxfire’s editors and writers (and some 
excellent photographers) seem to me as aware of 
what’s wrong with the world as anyone. The thing 
that distinguishes them from their shrill counterparts 
in the cities is the absence of fad, slogan and cliche 
as they set out to improve the world. These kids in 
Georgia are living in a real world, studying real 
things, and in consequence they are creating a 
wonderfully real publication in Foxfire. 
—Gurney Norman 
Since Gurney wrote this review in 1969 Foxfire has 
grown and deepened with the years into a flat-out 
landmark of American education:and folklore 
technique. It’s been widely copied, always to good 
effect. Try it in your area. The old-timers tell things 
to youngsters they wouldn’t say to anybody else. 
—Stewart Brand 
Foxfire 
Eliot Wigginton, Advisor; $9/year (4 issues) 
The Foxfire Book - Hog dressing, log cabin 
building, mountain crafts and foods, planting by 
the signs, snake lore, hunting tales, faith healing, 
moonshining, and other affairs of plain living. 
1972. 
Foxfire 2 — Ghost stories, spring wild plant 
foods, spinning and weaving, midwifing, burial 
customs, corn shuckin’s, wagon making and 
more affairs of plain living. 1973. 
Foxfire 3 — Animal care, banjos and dulcimers, 
hide tanning, summer and fall wild plant foods, 
butter churns, ginseng, and still more affairs of 
plain living. 1975. 
Foxfire 4 — Fiddle making, spring houses, horse 
trading, sassafras tea, berry buckets, gardening, 
and further affairs of plain living. 1977. 
ER 
a Se ee oe 
Planet Drum Foundation 
Since its start in 1974, Planet Drum has been a 
major influence in developing interest and action in 
bioregionalism and “reinhabitation.” They are “now 
working to foster exchange among bioregional 
groups and projects — the growing number of 
people exploring cultural, environmental, and 
economic forms appropriate to the places where 
you live.” You get the news — increasingly inter- 
national — in their often provocative review, Raise 
The Stakes, sharply edited by the not-always- 
polite Peter Berg. It occasionally features a 
valuable updated directory of bioregional organiza- 
tions. Other Planet Drum publications include 
several “Bundles” of essays, posters, poems and 
other materials celebrating individual bioregions, 
and a small selection of important books. This 
outfit is one to watch — their insights have often 
been years ahead of the rest of us. —JB 
Planet Drum 
$15/year (member- 
ship includes two 
issues of Raise the 
Stakes, one bonus 
publication, 25% 
discount on all books, 
access to workshop 
facilities) from: Planet 
Drum, P. O. Box 
31251, San Francisco 
CA 94131, Shasta 
Bioregion, USA 
THE STAKES | 
Hane: 
Drum meres = 
RAISE 
| 
Foxfire 5 — lronmaking, blacksmithing, flintlock 
rifles, bear hunting, and other affairs of plain 
living. 1979. 
Foxfire 6 — Shoemaking, 100 toys and games, 
gourd banjos and songbows, wooden locks, a 
water-powered sawmill, and other affairs of just 
plain living. 1980. 
Foxfire 7 — Southern Appalachian religious 
heritage: baptizing, camp meetings, faith healing, 
snake handling. 1982. 
Foxfire 8 — Southern folk pottery from pug mills, 
ash glazes, and groundhog kilns to face jugs, 
churns and rooster, mule swapping and chicken 
fighting. 1984. 
Foxfire 9 — Wagon-making, general stores, 
Catawba potter, dogtrot house, quilting, home 
remedies. 1986. 
Foxfire 1-9, $14.95 postpaid. **WEA 
Sometimes A Shining Moment — Eliot Wiggin- 
ton tells us about his teaching philosophy and 
how he started Foxfire. $12.50 postpaid. **WEA 
Foxfire also publishes Hands On: A Journal for 
Teachers, and produces tapes of folk music. And 
they put on a weekly radio show, produce videos, 
maintain a museum center, run a Teacher-Out- 
reach program, lecture all over, and, as they like 
to say, “We haven't even started yet.” 
All from: The Foxfire Fund, Inc., P. O. Box B, 
Rabun Gap, GA 30568; (404) 746-5828 
Martha 
Roane be- 
ing inter- 
viewed in 
the Foxfire 
classroom. 
To her right 
is her 
grandson, 
Charles 
Dennis. 
REGIONALISM 115 
Ee 
Re 
ee ee ee 
Audubon Expedition School 
One of the more tempting and radical educational 
opportunities is aboard the Audubon Expedition 
school buses that spend summer on the road 
exploring the cultural and environmental wonders 
of our country. Students and professors camp out 
of the bus, taking due time to hike, bike, ski, boat 
and generally immerse themselves in the areas 
they study. Social and environmental matters are 
high on the list of subjects. Credit is offered for 
high school right up to advanced degrees (through 
Lesley College). Praise is high; the school gives 
that indefinable feeling of rightness that comes 
from involvement with reality instead of being 
cooped up in a classroom. I’ve actually interacted 
with several busloads (at New Alchemy Institute — 
one of their stops) and found these folks to be just 
what they claim. If they'd had this forty years ago, | 
would have pestered my parents until they let me 
sign on. Scholarships available. —JB 
Audubon Expedition School; $5500/semester; 
$9300/year; Catalog free from: National Audu- 
bon Society Expedition Institute, R.R.1, Box 171, 
Sharon, CT 06069; (203) 364-0522 
MARITIME CANADA EXPEDITION 
Travel to the blue-green waters of the Bay of 
Fundy, the Gulf of St. Lawrence, and the island of 
Grand Manan. Canoe through the waters of 
Kejimkujik National Park and learn about Celtic 
music and the culture of Cape Breton Island. 
The BioRegional Quiz 
by Peter Warshall, Leonard Charles, Jim Dodge, Lynn Milliman, 
and Victoria Stockley 
1. When you turn on your faucet, where does the 
water come from? (Can you trace it back to local 
storm systems?) 
2. When you flush the toilet, where does the water go? 
(not just the treatment plant, but the final river or 
lake). 
3. What soil series are you standing on? 
4. How long is the growing season? 
5. What are the major geological events that shaped 
your bioregion (faults, uplifts, downwarps, volcanics, 
sea floods, etc)? Does your community give them 
special attention . 
. 
. are they sacred, blessed, pro- 
tected? 
6. How did the original inhabitants eat, clothe, and 
shelter themselves? How did they celebrate the 
seasonal changes in times before you? 
7. How many days until the moon is full? 
8. From where you are sitting, point north. 
9. What other bioregions of the planet have the most 
similar climate, culture, and analogous plants and 
animals? In other words, who are your Gaian cousins? 
10. Name the major plant/animal associations that 
thrive in your bioregion. Name five resident and 
migratory birds; five grasses; five trees; five mammals 
and reptiles or amphibians. Which are native? 
11. Name the plant or animal that is the “barometer” 
of environmental health for your bioregion? How’s it 
doing? endangered? threatened? thriving? Has it 
become a symbol or totem of local power for your 
community? 
12. Name the bioregions that grew each item of food 
on your dinner plate. Could you eat more locally? 
Support nearby farms? 
13. Where does your garbage go? 
14. What heavenly events most influence life in your 
bioregion? (fire? lightning? hail? tornadoes? fog? 
blizzards? drought? permafrost? chubascos? spring 
thaw?) 
