**WEA — Available from Whole Earth Access, see p. 2. 
Technics and Civilization 
| first read this book in 1957, and twice since then. 
Here are the first lines of the book: 
During the last thousand years the material 
basis and the cultural forms of Western 
Civilization have been profoundly modified 
by the development of the machine. How did 
this come about? Where did it take place? 
Lewis Mumford was an unusual man. He wasn’t 
an engineer or a scientist, he wasn’t an historian 
or sociologist, you can't identify him as a business 
man or a literary man or an academic. He seems 
beyond all those roles. This made him especially 
attractive to me when | was 19 because his style 
smelled of the place | wanted to go. He was pro- 
found, poetic, knowledgeable. He took care of the 
large and small things in his books. 
How | have used him: all through my twenties | 
used him as my guide. —Steve Baer 
Once we have generally reached a new technical 
plateau we may remain on the level with very 
minor ups and downs for thousands of years. 
What are the implications of this approaching 
equilibrium? 
First: equilibrium in the environment. This means 
first the restoration of the balance between man 
and nature. The conservation and restoration of 
soils, the re-growth wherever this is expedient and 
possible, of the forest cover to provide shelter for 
wild life and to maintain man's primitive back- 
ground as a source of recreation, whose impor- 
tance increases in proportion to the refinement of 
his cultural heritage. The use of tree crops where 
possible as substitutes for annuals, and the 
reliance upon kinetic energy — sun, falling water, 
wind — instead of upon limited capital supplies. 
The conservation of minerals and metals: the 
larger use of scrap metals. The conservation of 
the environment itself as a resource, and the fitting 
of human needs into the pattern formed by the 
Technics and Civilization 
Lewis Mumford; 1934; 1963; 
495 pp.; $14.95 ($16.95 post- 
paid) from: Harcourt Brace 
Jovanovitch, 465 South 
Lincoln, Troy, MO 63379 
(800) 543-1918 
WEA 
region as a whole: hence the progressive restora- 
tion out of such unbalanced regions as the over- 
urbanized metropolitan areas of London and New 
York. Is it necessary to point out that all this marks 
the approaching end of the miner’s economy? Not 
mine and move, but stay and cultivate are the 
watchwords of the new order. It is also necessary 
to emphasize that with respect to our use of 
metals, the conservative use of the existing supply 
will lower the importance of the mine in relation to 
other parts of the natural environment? 
[He said this in 1934! —JB] 
The important thing to bear in mind is that the 
failure to evaluate the machine and to integrate it 
in society as a whole was not due simply to 
defects in distributing income, to errors of manage- 
ment, to greed and narrow-mindedness of the 
industrial leaders: it was also due to a weakness 
of the entire philosophy upon which the new 
techniques and inventions were grounded. The 
leaders and enterprisers of the period believed 
that they had avoided the necessity for introducing 
values, except those which were automatically 
recorded in profits and prices. They believed that 
the problem of justly distributing goods could be 
sidetracked by creating an abundance of them: 
that the problem of applying one’s energies wisely 
could be cancelled out simply by multiplying them: 
in short, that most of the difficulties that had 
hitherto vexed mankind had a mathematical or 
mechanical — that is a quantitative — solution. 
The belief that values could be dispensed with 
constituted the new system of values. 
Rediscovering 
America’s Values 
Lappé sets up a dialogue between an unbridled 
free-market apologist and herself — an advocate 
of socialist-leaning reforms. These two voices then 
have at each other on fundamental topics such as 
freedom, market efficiency, civil liberties, and 
human nature. 
The book’s debate succeeded in its stated aim: 
provoking me into questioning my own assump- 
tions on fairness and what security democratic 
governments should and can provide. Unfortu- 
nately the book falls down in creating as strong an 
argument for Lappé’s philosophy as | had hoped 
for. | agree with Lappé’s intentions, so | wanted 
her argument to be the outstandingly more 
convincing one. But the free-marketeer, while 
espousing tough-luck policies, came out sounding 
sometimes more logical than Lappé. Still, as 
Lappé herself says, some of our now most taken- 
for-granted rights — universal suffrage, desegre- 
gation — were changes pushed for by visionaries 
who sounded illogical to their contemporaries. | 
wouldn't quite call Lappé a visionary, but then 
she’s certainly not illogical either. Indeed, the book 
is well-written and thought-provoking. | strongly 
recommend it as a tool for reopening a debate on 
basic values. —Mary James 
(Conventional Liberal) If individuals feel strongly 
enough about something they should be willing to 
use their dollar-votes to make their point in the 
marketplace. They can choose to boycott, choose 
to recycle, choose to buy from firms they think are 
Rediscovering America’s 
=" 
Values, Frances Moore 
: 
TIN 
Lappé; 1989; 325 pp. 
& REDISCOVERING, 
$22.50 ($25.88 postpaid) 
y AMERICAS 
from: Institute for Food & : VALUES | 
Development Policy 
FRESE 
145 Ninth Street 
San Francisco, CA 94103 
(415) 864-8555 WEA 
better for whatever reason. That's one great 
advantage of the market system. We as individu- 
als can express our views. You want the govern- 
ment to be a parent, forcing you — and, of course, 
others — to do what you aren’t disciplined enough 
to do by yourself! 
(Lappé) No, that’s not it. Thinking about it, | realize 
that if | failed to recycle it would not be out of laz- 
iness; it’s that | would know my individual decision 
would have little impact — so why bother? Where- 
as if everybody is doing it, my individual effort will 
matter, and, what’s more, systems will be set up to 
make recycling practical. As citizens, we can 
organize our common lives to make it practical to 
do what as individual consumers we wouldn't do 
— but what in our hearts we know is right. 
If we had only interests and no principles, we 
wouldn't need a polity at all; we could get by with 
just an economy in which all transactions — from 
education to law enforcement to saving endan- 
gered species — are left to the market. Indeed, if 
you were right, there could be no such thing as a 
civil servant. Motivated only by rational self- 
interest, officials would just respond to bribes of 
one sort or another. 
VALUES 99 
a 
Se REE 
Turtle Island 
To understand whole evidently requires under- 
standing with more than rational consciousness. | 
mean, with experience, with dreams, with art, with 
poetry — (not-quite synonyms for knowledge 
which is real but not nameable). Gary Snyder's 
poetry addresses the life-planet identification with 
unusual simplicity of style and complexity of effect. 
—Stewart Brand 
Turtle Island 
Gary Snyder 
1974; 114 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid from: 
W. W. Norton & Co., Inc. 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
(800) 233-4830 WEA 
TOMORROW'S SONG 
The USA slowly lost its mandate 
in the middfe and later twentieth century 
it never gave the mountains and rivers, 
trees and animals 
a vote. 
all the people turned away from it 
myths die; even continents are impermanent 
Turtle Island returned. 
my friend broke open a dried coyote-scat 
removed a ground squirrel tooth 
pierced it, hung it 
from the gold ring 
in his ear. 
We look to the future with pleasure 
we need no fossil fuel 
get power within 
grow strong on less. 
Grasp the tools and move in rhythm side by side 
flash gleams of wit and silent knowledge 
eye to eye 
sit still like cats or snakes or stones 
as whole and holding as 
the blue black sky. 
gentle and innocent as wolves 
as tricky as a prince. 
At work and in our place: 
in the service 
of the wilderness 
of life 
of death 
of the Mother's breasts! 
a 
ee ee a 
es 
Ecophilosophy 
A much-needed “mini-bibliography” of eco-related 
values. 238 books are listed with a brief annotation 
— enough to get a feel for the books you want. 
Also included are separate listings of periodicals 
and organizations, plus an index to the whole 
book. A really useful book, as eco-philosophy is a 
hard subject area to define. You would otherwise 
have to wade through hundreds of listings in 
standard reference works. Great for libraries, 
bookstore use and for people looking to find good 
books in this hot area. My hat’s off to the author 
and publisher! —Cliff Martin 
Ecophilosophy (A Field Gide EE 
e 
to the Literature), Donald 
Ba 
Edwards Davis; 1989; 137 pp. 
- 
$8.95 ($10.45 postpaid) from: 
R & E Miles 
ee 
P. O. Box 1916 
4 EGOpauastee 
San Pedro, CA 90733 
(213) 833-8856 
%*WEA 
Donald Edward Dares 
