T4 VILLAGE HOMES 
Village J Homes sso 
J.R.R.Tolkien street names 
invite the local nickname of 
“Hobbittown.” 
Nine photos by Don Ryan 
Bike paths are the real streets of Village Homes. 
They connect to the bike path system of the 
nearby city of Davis, minimizing the need for auto 
use. It’s safer too; neighborhood kids can go from 
their home to any other home without crossing 
streets. 
Gus TLY CURVING bikepath/sidewalks wend 
past the colorful, fragrant gardens adorning the 
front yard of each home. Village Homes looks 
and feels like a park with houses. Trees abound, 
many festooned with ripening fruit. Neighbors 
chat as they garden, unconcerned for the safety 
of their unsupervised kids. There’s no traffic 
roar — there are no through streets. Most cars 
you see are parked in carports. A few move 
slowly along the narrow lanes running behind 
the houses. The bike paths are the real streets. 
Kids and adults whiz by, the only sound being 
an occasional rumble as bike tires meet wooden 
bridge boards. The whole scene looks a little like 
a stage set. It almost feels suspicious. Are these 
normal people? Is this all real? 
Yes, it’s real, and it’s even better than it looks at 
a glance. The Ecotopian appearance is reinforced 
by utility bills averaging 50% less than those of a 
conventional neighborhood. The small lots,. 
gardens and porches tend to encourage neigh- 
borliness and a sense of community — the best 
Alley-like cul-de-sac streets eliminate through 
traffic. Street parking is not allowed. Shaded, 
narrow pavement reduces heat gain, helping to 
keep summer neighborhood temperatures about 
10 degrees cooler than other developments. 
deterrent to crime. The tract has also been a 
financial success for builders, banks and home- 
owners. Homes usually get sold before being 
listed — often for 20% more than homes in 
ordinary neighborhoods of the same class. 
Originally sold for $31,000-$70,000, they’re now 
$200,000-$300,000. (Remember, California realty 
prices are crazy these days.) 
Community land and buildings are taken care of 
and insured by a strong Neighborhood Associa- 
tion that charges each of the 220 families 
monthly dues of $60. When Village Homes was 
opened in 1976, it was hoped that selling vege- 
tables from the community gardens would take 
care of the expenses, but these days few people 
can afford the time for market gardening. The 
Association hopes to reduce the dues with 
revenues from apartments and offices they own. 
We heard few complaints about the dues; 
people seem to regard them as part of the price 
of living in such a nice place. Even kiddies and 
teenagers like life in the Village. Visitors resist 
leaving. All regard it as the way a neighborhood 
should be. 
So why aren’t there more Village Homes? The 
answer is complex and sadly familiar. When 
developer Mike Corbett built the Village, he had 
to fight the bureaucracy tooth and nail. Banks 
wouldn’t lend the large sums necessary (Mike 
had to buy the whole tract at once in order to 
(Below) An early picture of part of Village Homes 
before trees grew to shade streets. Small lots 
permit neighborhood-owned and maintained 
gardens, community center, playgrounds, 
swimming pool and greenbelts. All homes face 
south for maximum solar advantage, with solar 
rights protected by law. Tight layout encourages 
friendly neighbor interactions. Crime is rare. 
Judy Corbett 
