6 BIOSPHERE 
Biosphere II 
By Kevin Kelly 
N southern Arizona, a band of 
dedicated mavericks are quietly 
erecting the most gutsy science 
experiment since the days of the 
first moon landing. It’s a brilliant, 
bold, harebrained, and com- 
pletely gonzo undertaking: A 
sealed, self-sustaining ark for hNu- 
man living. The Arizona group calls 
The rock wall in this picture separates two 
of the seven biomes enclosed under the 
glass canopy being erected. On top of 
the cliff will be the African thornshrub 
savanna; atthe base ofthe cliff, the ocean 
with Caribbean coralreef. (An underwater 
viewing port is being constructed in the 
foreground.) Under the framework lies 
the future Baja fog desert. At the junction 
where framework shown is over the cliff, a 
waterfall drops to a Florida mangrove 
swamp. The water will come from a 
tropical cloud forest, out of the picture to 
the right; its highest point will be five stories 
tall. In the background are the domes of 
it Biosphere Il, a bonsai version of 
Biosphere |, our Earth. 
Small compared to Earth, this self-contained 
terraquarium is awesome at the human scale. 
Biosphere II (Bio2) is a gigantic glass ark the size 
of an airport hangar. It’s airtight to the outside. 
Sealed at the bottom, too, with a stainless-steel 
tray 25 feet under the soil fo prevent seepage of 
air from below. 
In September 1990, eight volunteers 
— four men, 
four women — will walk through the air-locks, 
and seal themselves in for two years. 
Inside there is a soaking-wet rain forest at one 
end, a desert savanna at the other, and a coral 
reef and marsh in the middle. Off to one side is 
Photos by Kevin Kelly except where noted. 
(Above) Of all the myriad parts making up Bio2, the most 
well-researched is the intensive agriculture area. The 
total area available for food crops is about 1/2 acre. Do- 
mesticated plants are bred for more sheltered climates 
so the entire atmosphere of the agricultural area under 
these domed structures will be air-conditioned to some 
extent. The garden’s air will be dehumidified year-’round, 
and cooled during the summer. While water for use inside 
the farm will be recycled, water for the evaporation 
cooling towers will be drawn from wells outside. Research 
done by Environmental Research Laboratory (ERL) has 
shown that it is possible to grow enough food for one per- 
son for one year on as little as 250 square meters, your 
basic tennis court size. And to do this year after year. 
an intensive agriculture area where the eight will 
grow all their own food for two years. Like Noah’s 
boat there will be animals aboard: some for 
meat, some for pets, and some on the loose: 
lizards, fish, birds, and bats roaming about the 
wild parts. There are honey bees, papaya trees, 
a beach, TV, and a laundromat. 
The Biospherians (as they call themselves) will 
recycle 100 percent of what they breathe, drink, 
and eat. For two years they will live in a closed 
mini-world, a dramatic surrogate of our home 
planet. They see Bio2 as a double-sided investi- 
gation: how fo live off the Earth and how fo live 
on the Earth. 
There is a green faction within the Bio2 group that 
sees this experiment as an emblem of Gaian 
awareness, an icon with as much spiritual power 
as the image of the whole Earth from space. And 
there is a space-cowboy faction within Bio2 that 
sees this as a pragmatic step on a spiritual jour- 
ney off the planet into the galaxies. H 
(Above) Combination water purifier and aqua-farm. Here’s 
a multilevel tub system for growing rice, green compost, 
and fish on “waste” water. The rice is grown paddy-style 
in flooded beds. On the water surface a mat of azolla, a 
tiny flat water fern that is high in nitrogen, floats between 
stalks of rice. It is collected after the rice is harvested and 
composted for fertilizer. Under the water, tilapia fish 
proliferate. Tilapia, a tropical carp-like fish from the inland 
lakes of Africa, have an unusually high percentage of 
protein, reproduce rapidly, and are excellent restaurant 
fare. “Waste” water from the rice/fish tubs spills into water- 
hyacinth tubs which begin a biological clearing of the 
water, a job picked up with gusto by microbial bacteria 
adhering to a drum spun by the water movement. Since 
everything is recycled, there is no garbage. 
(Leff) To entirely feed one person indefinitely on a back- 
yard-sized plot requires that nutrition be maintained for 
both soil and human. ERL has worked out a rotation of 
cultivars for a small plot that produces a varied human 
diet which exceeds the minimum RDA for calories and all 
nutrients, except for vitamin B12. It is not boring food: 
oats, wheat, rice, sweet potatoes, squashes, sunflower 
seeds, various beans and peas, peanuts, lots of leafy 
greens, root crops like beets and carrots, the usual garden 
veggies like tomatoes, cukes, eggplant, peppers, and 
some fruit such as melons and strawberries. 
the agricultural area. And the seventh 
biome; an urban human habitat, willhouse Homo sapiens 
Americanus with conventional materials. 
(Right) Construc- 
ting a wetlands by 
reassembling 
a 
natural one is the 
analog method of 
biome building. It 
seems to work fine. 
“If we were really 
doing this right, we 
would be piping in 
thunder 
for the 
frogs,” says War- 
shall. “But we are 
not really model- 
ing the earth, we 
are modeling No- 
ah. How many links 
can we break and 
still have a species 
survive? In reality 
that’s our ques- 
tion.” 
“Well, we 
haven’t 
had 
a 
crash yet!” Walter 
Adey chuckles. He 
has built two living coral reefs and a mangrove swamp. 
His analog swamp gets a thunderstorm when someone 
turns a gushing water hose onto it. Living mesocosms, 
even synthetic ones, are hard to break. 
(Below) “Designing a biome is an opportunity to think like 
God,” Peter Warshall points out with a smile. Says Tony 
Burgess, “Youcan gotwo ways with this. Mimic an analog 
of a particular environment you find in nature, or invent a 
synthetic based on many of them. Bio2 is definitely a 
synthetic ecosystem. But so is California by now.” 
Redundancy of pathways in the foodchain is the great 
challenge for would-be Gods. With multiple food chains, 
if the sandflies die off, then there'll still be a second 
choice of food for the lizards. Humans are “keystone 
predators,” acting as checks of last resort (The 14 
candidates are shown here.) Populations of plants or 
animals that outrun their niches can be kept in reasonable 
range by human “arbitration.” If the ocotillo shrub takes 
over, the bionauts will hack it away. Adey says, “Youcan 
build synthetic ecosystems as small as you want. But the 
smaller you make it, the greater role human operators 
play because they must act out the larger forces of 
nature beyond the ecological community. The subsidy 
we get from nature is incredible.” 
Peter 
Menzel 
See Also... 
For a tiny basic Biosphere see page 120. 
For more ERL work see page 49. 
