McDonald’s recycling experiments in Portland, 
Oregon and Brooklyn, New York, customer compli- 
ance in separating plastics from other wastes 
ranges from 50 to 70 percent. 
The ordinance includes a $1,000 fine for 
noncompliance. —Plastics Recycling Update 
e 
Seattle has won funding from the U.S. Environ- 
mental Protection Agency to pilot test a system of 
weight-based garbage collection, that it calls 
“Garbage by the Pound.” The city hopes to retrofit 
several garbage trucks with scales and use 
barcode address systems that will allow each cus- 
tomer to be charged on the basis of the actual 
weight of the garbage put out for disposal. The city 
hopes that using a bar-code system, combined 
with a retrofit of the semi-automated garbage 
trucks, will lead to a operation that is fairer, but 
does not slow down or complicate collection. 
—Resource Recycling 
At a pilot latex paint recycling project in Seattle, 
paint is collected, sorted and consolidated. A 
study has estimated that Seattle could save $1 
million in landfill disposal costs by recovering 
latex paint. —Resource Recycling 
Garbage Reincarnation 
We Should Be Doing This 
In Sweden we have recycling of batteries, the 
main reason for this is the concentration of 
mercury (alkaline batteries) and cadmium (in 
most rechargeable batteries) and the difficulty 
of disposing of the batteries in a safe way. 
Starting this year the battery companies must 
put a recycling symbol on all batteries with 
heavy metals over a certain percent (0.025% 
mercury — manganese dioxide batteries are 
below that limit) and pay about 10 cents in 
environmental tax for every battery sold. 
The Government has put orange battery- 
recycling boxes beside the glass and clothes 
recycling stations, usually located within 
walking distance from most homes. You don’t 
get paid, but after some advertisement and 
information campaigns, most people put their 
discard batteries in the orange boxes. 
Now there are Alkaline batteries on the 
Swedish market (UCAR/Philips) with very little 
mercury, marginal price difference, and no 
need for recycling and no environmental tax. 
—Erix Ericsson [via Peter Funk] 
RECYCLING 89 
WASTE 
As A COUNTRY PERSON, I often feel that I am on the 
bottom end of the waste problem. I live on the 
Kentucky River about ten miles from its entrance 
into the Ohio. The Kentucky, in many ways a 
lovely river, receives an abundance of pollution 
from the Eastern Kentucky coal mines and the 
central Kentucky cities. When the river rises, it 
carries a continuous raft of cans, bottles, plastic 
jugs, chunks of styrofoam, and other imperishable 
trash. After the floods subside, I, like many other 
farmers, must pick up the trash before I can use 
my bottomland fields. I have seen the Ohio, whose 
name (Oyo in Iroquois) means “beautiful river,” 
so choked with this manufactured filth that an ant 
could crawl dry-footed from Kentucky to Indiana. 
The air of both river valleys is seriously polluted. 
Our roadsides and roadside fields lie under a 
constant precipitation of cans, bottles, the plastic- 
ware of fast food joints, soiled plastic diapers, and 
sometimes whole bags of garbage. In our county 
we now have a “sanitary landfill” which daily 
receives, in addition to our local production, fifty 
to sixty large truckloads of garbage from Pennsyl- 
vania, New Jersey, and New York. 
Moreover, a close inspection of our country- 
side would reveal, strewn over it from one end to 
the other, thousands of derelict and worthless 
automobiles, house trailers, refrigerators, stoves, 
freezers, washing machines, and dryers; as well as 
thousands of unregulated dumps in hollows and 
sink holes, on streambanks and roadsides, filled 
not only with “disposable” containers but also 
with broken toasters, television sets, toys of all 
kinds, furniture, lamps, stereos, radios, scales, 
coffee makers, mixers, blenders, corn poppers, 
hair dryers, and microwave ovens. Much of our 
waste problem is to be accounted for by the 
intentional flimsiness and unrepairability of the 
labor-savers and gadgets that we have become 
addicted to. 
* Of course, my sometime impression that I live 
on the receiving end of this problem is false, for 
country people contribute their full share. The 
truth is that we Americans, all of us, have become 
a kind of human trash, living our lives in the 
midst of a ubiquitous damned mess of which we 
are at once the victims and the perpetrators. We 
are all unwilling victims, perhaps; and some of us 
even are unwilling perpetrators, but we must 
count ourselves among the guilty nonetheless. In 
my household we produce much of our own food 
and try to do without as many frivolous “necessi- 
ties” as possible — and yet, like everyone else, we 
must shop, and when we shop we must bring 
home a load of plastic, aluminum, and glass 
containers designed to be thrown away, and “ap- 
pliances” designed to wear out quickly and be 
thrown away. 
I confess that I am angry at the manufacturers 
who make these things. There are days when I 
would be delighted if certain corporation execu- 
tives could somehow be obliged to eat their 
products. I know of no good reason why these 
containers and all other forms of manufactured 
“waste” — solid, liquid, toxic, or whatever — 
should not be outlawed. There is no sense and no 
sanity in objecting to the desecration of the flag 
while tolerating and justifying and encouraging as 
a daily business the desecration of the country for 
which it stands. 
But our waste problem is not the fault only of 
producers. It is the fault of an economy that is 
wasteful from top to bottom — a symbiosis of an 
unlimited greed at the top and a lazy, passive, and 
self-indulgent consumptiveness at the bottom — 
and all of us are involved in it. If we wish to 
correct this economy, we must be careful to under- 
stand and to demonstrate how much waste of 
human life is involved in our waste of the material 
By Wendell Berry 
goods of Creation. For example, much of the litter 
that now defaces our country is fairly directly 
caused by the massive secession or exclusion of 
most of our people from active participation in the 
food economy. We have made a social ideal of 
minimal involvement in the growing and cooking 
of food. This is one of the dearest “liberations” of 
our affluence. Nevertheless, the more dependent 
we become on the industries of eating and drink- 
ing, the more waste we are going to produce. The 
mess that surrounds us, then, must be understood 
not just as a problem in itself but as a symptom of 
a greater and graver problem: the centralization of 
our economy, the gathering of the productive 
property and power into fewer and fewer hands, 
and the consequent destruction, everywhere, of 
the local economies of household, neighborhood, 
and community. 
This is the source of our unemployment 
problem, and I am not talking just about the 
unemployment of eligible members of the “labor 
force.” I mean also the unemployment of children 
and old pegple, who, in viable household and 
local economies, would have work to do by which 
they would be useful to themselves and to others. 
The ecological damage of centralization and waste 
is thus inextricably involved with human damage. 
|
For we have, as a result, not only a desecrated, 
ugly, and dangerous country in which to live until 
we are in some manner poisoned by it, and a 
constant and now generally accepted problem of 
unemployed or umemployable workers, but also 
classrooms full of children who lack the experi- 
ence and discipline of fundamental human tasks, 
and various institutions full of still capable old 
people who are useless and lonely. 
I think that we must learn to see the trash on 
our streets and roadsides, in our rivers, and in our 
woods and fields, not as the side effects of “more 
jobs” as its manufacturers invariably insist that it 
is, but as evidence of good work not done by 
people able to do it. 
Excerpted from What Are People For?, copyright 1990 by 
Wendell Berry, published by North Point Press and reprinted by 
permisssion. Review on p. 97. 
Earth Care Paper 
Some of the nicest note cards and Christmas 
cards I’ve seen come from Earth Care, a manufac- 
turer of recycled paper products. But cards aren't 
the only thing they sell — envelopes, computer 
paper, and non-plastic food storage bags are just 
a few of the items in this, the latest catalog. The 
catalog is full of interesting blurbs about recycling, 
plastics, and other environmental concerns. 10% 
of their profit goes to various organizations 
dedicated to solving environmental and social 
problems. Best of all, prices are very reasonable. 
—John Ruckes 
Earth Care Paper, Inc.; Catalog free from: 
P. O. Box 3335, Madison, WI 53704 
(608) 256-5522 
Index to Office 
and Printing Papers 
Cadence 
Linen Text 
Cadence Linen Cover 
Ultima Laid 
Brockway Felt 
Crestline Vellum Text 
Coat of Arms Cover 
Passport Speckle Text 
Passport Cover 
Sycamore Colors 
White Offset 
Copy-Bond 
Computer Paper 
Minimum Impact* 
A = Ideally suited for this purpose 
B = Works well in most situations 
*(the most ccological printing paper made) 
