Some Parts of the Total 
System and How They Work 
No fully operational twelve-category recycling 
system is currently up and running anywhere at 
this time. But for every one of the master discard 
categories, there are recycling enterprises some- 
where reliably disposing of all or part of the supply. 
“ye 
ee 
Lars Benson relocates some of Urban Ore’s sink 
collection. Separating reusables involves lots of 
handwork. 
ay. 
i 
. 
. 
Urban Ore's Compost Farm turns plant debris into 
a salable product, saving landfill space and 
reducing the need for chemical fertilizer. Probably 
the most underrated part of a comprehensive 
recycling system is composting. Clean brush and 
yard debris accounts for about 25% of the total 
discard supply, not only in sunny California, but 
also in New Jersey, Illinois, and most other states. 
Americans love gardens, gardens grow, and they 
need regular trimming — or pruning in the winter. 
Winter in cold climates offers a supply of dead 
leaves and woody debris. 
Recycting Reusables with Urban Ore 
wust before the Berkeley landfill died, it 
gave birth to Urban Ore, Incorporated. 
“Urban Ore” was originally the title of a 
research proposal written to the National 
Science Foundation. We wanted to study the 
feasibility of digging some test holes in the 
landfill, recovering what we could for recycling, 
and composting the rest. What we were really 
after was not materials at all, but more space 
to fill while we developed a big, comprehen- 
sive recycling system on the landfill surface. 
We wanted to extend the life of the landfill. 
The funding never came through, though, so 
we had to stop thinking of ourselves as 
scientists in lab coats. We adopted a new 
identity as urban scavengers. 
In the wild and woolly environment of the 
dump, just surviving from one day to the next 
was a major feat. We went after reusable 
goods because they had more survival value 
than anything else. When we wanted tools, we 
found them in the dump. When we wanted 
clothes, we found them, too. When we wanted 
money, we sold the things we found: scrap 
metals, building materials, furniture, equip- 
ment, books, toys. We learned the salvage 
trade by trial and error, and by necessity. 
We learned business so we could become es- 
tablished, legitimate, and recognized. We 
passed a major city audit and when the landfill 
closed on schedule, we were invited to be part 
of the recycling system at the new transfer 
station. We even prevailed in a major battle 
with our host public works department over an 
incinerator they wanted to build. 
That political victory was necessary to our 
survival because it protected our supply. 
Nevertheless, it cost a lot of effort and money, 
and it dug a gulf between our regulators and 
us that took years to bridge. 
We've had our ups and downs, just like any 
other business. But overall, we've grown and 
prospered. Ten years later, Urban Ore gener- 
ates over $600,000 per year selling reusable 
goods. It employs fifteen people at wages 
ranging from $8.00 to $12.00 per hour. Its 
employees enjoy a company-paid health plan. 
Customers include flea-market vendors, 
artists, realtors, house-restoration contractors, 
property managers, landlords, renters, 
collectors, students, newlyweds, movie and 
theater companies, and just about anyone 
else looking for bargains, surprises, and 
sometimes just ideas. 
spe meee eee eee 
Cities and transport sys- 
tems use vast amounts of 
ceramic materials. The 
steel skeleton of a typical 
highrise holds up cement 
floors and a stone and 
glass exterior. Aque- 
ducts, freeways, sub- 
ways, and airports are 
frozen rivers of cement or 
asphalt. Repair, remod- 
eling, and reconstruction 
of these facilities produ- 
ces millions of tons of 
stone-like rubble annu- 
ally. Broken concrete is 
crushed into gravel, re- 
ducing need for both 
land fill space and gravel 
mining. 
Urban Ore 
(415) 526-7080 
URBAN ORE 91 
A small part of the wood sash department at 
Urban Ore Building Materials. Studies show that 
selling used building parts does not steal 
customers from building supply houses. 
Materials tipped into this conventional pit-type 
transfer station (below) are crushed and mixed, 
making recycling impossible. The best transfer 
stations have yet to be built. These transfer 
stations will offer separate unloading areas for 
each of the twelve master discard categories. 
Each station will charge a fee or pay one for the 
materials it handles. The only materials that will 
get through to the end will be grossly contami- 
nated by careless handling, or will have been 
designed and built so they can’t be recycled. The 
highest tipping fees will be at the end of the line. 
Recycling transfer stations will anchor the total 
recycling systems of the future, but the boundar- 
ies will be fuzzy. Large and small businesses will 
function as parts of a whole resource-handling 
system, and where primary production stops and 
recycling begins will be less distinguishable as 
time goes on. The entire economic structure will 
simply assume frugality and overall resource 
efficiency. 
ae AS 
Giant hydraulic splitter turns recalcitrant stumps 
into salable firewood. 
