122 LEARNING 
(i EER CS 
a 
College of the Atlantic 
Most colleges and universities offer some short 
courses in environment and ecology, some have 
environmental studies departments. College of the 
Atlantic (COA) bases their entire curriculum on 
Human Ecology, attending the ramifications of that 
with a variety of interdisciplinary studies. This 
concept was considered radical when the college 
was founded twenty years ago, and it remains 
unique — COA is still the only college in the world 
dedicated entirely to ecological matters. It’s a small 
school, with all that implies. Graduates I’ve talked 
to generally seem to appreciate their stay there, 
and the work it led to. —JB 
College of the Atlantic 
Information free from: College of the Atlantic 
Bar Harbor, ME 04609; (207) 288-5015 
National Geographic 
Educational Services 
National Geographic — great magazine and “Oh 
boy, there’s a Geographic Special on the tube 
tonight!” Their Educational Services are a bit less 
famous, but are, as you'd expect, done up in the 
impeccable Geographic manner. More of a surprise 
is the enormous selection and variety shown in 
their colorful catalog (most of it aimed at ages pre- 
K through 12, much of it interesting to adults): 
Science and social studies filmstrips galore (with 
teacher’s guides); Videodiscs on American History 
(by Lucasfilm); Wonderful books of all sorts —hard 
to imagine nicer ones — toddler through adult; and 
of course, the Geographic’s peerless maps. The 
renowned TV Specials are included in the prodi- 
gious list of videos (some available in French and 
Spanish). Most are available on film, too. Don’t go 
away — that ain't all! The National Geographic 
Society is in the midst of a ten-year program 
intended to raise the level of geography education 
nationwide. It’s too complex to even outline here, 
but the program includes teacher education, finan- 
cial support and technical assistance (inquire to 
see if your school qualifies). 
But most interesting, and even a bit unexpected 
from such a venerable institution, are the new 
Computer Courseware offerings and the Kid’s 
Network®, telecommunications that hook partici- 
pating schools together nationwide and worldwide, 
including in the Soviet Union. The program is 
hardly even weaned, but is already successful. Vig- 
orously growing, it’s obviously a taste of greater 
things to come. What better way to give kids a 
chance to be active world citizens! —JB 
[Suggested by Jeannie Allen] 
National Geographic Educational 
Services Catalog; free from: National Geo- 
graphic Educational Services, Department 90, 
Washington, DC 20036; (800) 368-2728 
THE WEATHER MACHINE 
Courseware Kit components: 
m Three two-sided 54,” disks, plus backups 
= One sound filmstrip 
& 15 copies of an 8-page full-color student booklet 
& Teacher's Guide with reproducible activity sheets 
@ Library catalog cards 
No. 80307 (ISBN 0-7922-0008-X).........:cssessseseesesssesees $159.95 
Receive today’s weather today! For purchasers of THE 
WEATHER MACHINE kit, this service transmits—via a 
modem —daily weather information prepared by- National 
Geographic from National Weather Service data gathered 
from stations across North America. 
Modem required: Apple®, Hayes, or Hayes-compatible. No 
additional software needed. Daily toll-free call; no hidden 
costs. Toll-free National Geographic hot line support. 
(ISBN 0-7922-0015-2) 
One-time initiation fees.<..5.25..2.ccisakieteaintiensoedeeess $40.00 
No. 80490 8-month subscription: 1/1/90-8/31/90........ $125. 
No. 80492 1-year subscription: 9/1/90-8/31/91............ $160.00* 
*price subject to change 
PCAC 
ee 
ae 
SimCity 
As mayor of an imaginary city I’ve constructed 
using a new Macintosh game, | finally understand 
why there is never enough funding for education, 
and how someone could bulldoze a park to build a 
high-rise. 
Wearing the mayor’s hat in SimCity | build parks, 
roads, fire departments, and mass transit. Some- 
times | have to bulldoze. | can start a city from the 
ground up, or take over an existing city. Each 
improvement subtracts money from my limited city 
budget. Each improvement also has consequences 
down the road. | can zone the privately held land 
for residential use, but no Sims (computer-simu- 
lated citizens) will move in and build homes unless 
| also provide enough jobs, which entails building 
factories, which demand electric power plants and 
roads, which produce pollution and traffic, which 
cause Sims to change their minds and leave.. 
. 
In one city which | built up over many Sim-years | 
had a 93-percent approval in the public-opinion 
polls. Things were going great! | had a nice bal- 
ance of tax-producing commerce and citizen- 
retaining beauty. To lessen pollution in my great 
metropolis | had built a nuclear power plant. Unfor- 
tunately, | had inadvertently placed it in my airport’s 
flight path, and one day by chance a plane crashed 
into the generators causing a meltdown. This set 
great fires going, and since | hadn't built enough 
fire stations in the vicinity 
(extremely costly), | could 
never gain control of the fires 
as they spread, eventually 
burning down the whole city. 
I’m rebuilding, differently. 
| love games and books that 
are able to create worlds of 
their own, and I’ve lived in 
nearly all of them. SimCity has 
been one of the most addicting 
of all. 
—Alan Greene 
and Kevin Kelly 
SimCity, Copy-protected. 
Apple Macintosh 
$49.95, Broderbund, 17 Paul 
Drive, San Rafael, CA 94903- 
2101; (800) 521-6263 (order); 
(415) 376-6434 (information) 
The Folkecenter for 
Renewable Energy 
This thoroughly professional Danish government- 
sponsored organization engages in renewable 
energy research and projects worldwide. Many of 
the machines and techniques developed there are 
now produced by commercial firms. Part of their 
mandate is to transfer their hard-won knowledge. 
One of the ways they do this is by means of a 12 
week hands-on course in the several renewable 
energy technologies. It’s a unique, concentrated 
shot intended for those who will be working in third 
world countries — seasoned pros adding you to 
their number. They encourage you to arrange a 
visit. —JB 
Folkecenter for Renewable Energy 
Training Programme; Information free 
Course $7000,12 weeks (Fee includes board, 
lodging, excursions, and materials) 
Renewable Energy Centres Worldwide 
Newsletter, René Karottki & Jos van Beck, 
Editors; $15/year (four issues) 
All from: Folkecenter for Renewable Energy, 
P.O. Box 208, Dk-7760 Hurup Thy, Denmark 
Phone: +45 97 95 65 55 
LU 
nonececenses | 
Goi iogeessoeecere 
feel oo 
Tiny cars cruise SimCity’s roads carrying citizens to work and home. 
Building structures are erected by Sim citizens as real estate growth 
conditions evolve. 
Balance of the Planet - 
SimEarth 
The closest we can come to demonstrating the 
web of relationships within ecology (and the 
environment) is through the many interdependent 
links possible in computer software. Both of these 
easy-to-use programs model the multiple com- 
plexities that make up our global environment. 
Each in its own way shows how small changes in 
one factor can result in large global effects, and 
how difficult it can be to find a good balance 
between competing interests. 
In challenges like this, the best learning happens 
when you can make mistakes. But messing 
around with the only environment we have is not 
permissible. These two sophisicated software 
programs are tremendous eco-learning tools 
because, unlike nature, they allow mistakes. 
In Balance of the Planet the goal is to design a 
world where environmental good things (such as 
biodiversity) outweigh the bad ones (pollution). In 
many cases there is a realistic trade off, say 
between use of pesticide and crop yields, or 
between more taxes and more forests. It’s hard to 
make a world that is sustainable, and doesn’t 
crash. One valuable skill Balance of Planet 
teaches is how to think ahead. It also is good for 
learning to confront your biases, because there are 
biases, value judgements, and beliefs, built into the 
game at every turn. Much to designer Crawford’s 
credit, one can alter the game’s fundamental 
biases, giving advance modelling power. 
SimEarth extends the fabulous game SimCity 
(see review on this page) to planetary scale. 
SimEarth considers the Earth as if it was a huge 
city of millions of organsims, animals, and raw 
resources like oxygen and ultraviolet light. Your job 
is to tweak resource parameters such that as many 
kinds of life live for as long as possible. You can 
play with carbon dioxide levels, rate of mutation, 
temperature, and impact of humans. Much like in 
the real world, “winning” is how you define it. The 
thrill is entering a rich, deep, and endless world. 
— Kevin Kelly and Alan Greene 
Balance of the Planet, (Macintosh Plus or 
greater w/hard disk and IBM PC or compatible w/ 
512K RAM, CGA or better), $49.95 from: Acco- 
lade, 550 South Winchester Blvd., Suite 200, San 
Jose, CA 95128; (800) 245-7744 
SimEarth, Apple Macintosh, approx $59, for 
more information contact: Maxis, 1042 Country 
Club Drive, Suite C, Moraga, CA 94556; (415) 
376-6434 
