Fe, 
BioDiversity 
“BioDiversity”: the fantastic multitude of different 
forms of life on planet Earth. Just one group of 
animals alone, the insects, may account for an 
inconceivable 50 million species, according to the 
latest estimates of entomologist Terry Erwin, a 
contributor to this book. Unfortunately, what has 
taken evolution over three billion years to produce 
may take the human species only a few genera- 
tions to wipe out: Erwin estimates that human ac- 
tivity may eliminate 20 to 30 million species in the 
next generation alone! This wholesale obliteration 
of species has profound consequences for all 
humans, not just “nature lovers.” As ecologist Paul 
Ehrlich, another of BioDiversity’s authors, points 
out, the complex ecosystems formed by the Earth’s 
plants, animals, and microorganisms supply the 
mixture of gases that makes the atmosphere liv- 
able, prevent habitable land from turning into des- 
ert, insure the pollination of our crops, and maintain 
a balance of predators and prey that keeps hu- 
mans from being overrun by pests. Perhaps most 
important of all, the assemblage of species with 
which we share the planet represents a vast untap- 
ped genetic library, teeming with undiscovered 
pharmaceuticals and other beneficial substances. 
Ehrlich and Erwin are only two of over fifty contribu- 
tors to this book, the product of a National Forum 
cosponsored by the National Academy of Sciences 
and the Smithsonian Institution. A superb lineup of 
biologists graphically outlines the terrifying enor- 
mity of the current extinction crisis — which dwarfs 
all of the natural extinctions of the past — and 
makes suggestions about how it can be reversed. 
Their essays are complemented by contributions 
from pharmacologists, economists, environmental- 
ists, poets, and philosophers. (Included are a 
number familiar to Whole Earth Catalog readers: 
Ehrlich, Ocean Arks Institute founder John Todd, 
James “Gaia Hypothesis” Lovelock, beat poet 
Michael McClure.) 
What emerges is pretty grim, but not hopeless. 
Ehrlich predicts that unless human cultures are 
transformed by a “quasi-religious . 
. 
. appreciation 
of diversity for its own sake,” most of the Earth’s 
surface will soon become desert, and “civilization 
will disappear some time before the end of the next 
century — not with a bang but a whimper.” This 
book amply demonstrates that if Ehrlich’s apoca- 
lyptic vision comes to pass, it won't be because the 
human species wasn’t smart enough to see it 
coming. The question to ask now is: Are we smart 
enough to do anything about it? —Ted Schultz 
BioDiversity 
E.O. Wilson, Editor 
1988; 521 pp.; $19.50 
($21.50 postpaid) from: 
National Academy Press 
2101 Constitution Ave. 
Washington, DC 20418 
(800) 624-6242 4 WEA 
| will go further: the magnitude and control of 
biological diversity is not just a central problem of 
evolutionary biology; it is one of the key problems 
of science as a whole. At present, there is no way 
of knowing whether there are 5, 10, or 30 million 
species on Earth. There is no theory that can 
predict what this number might turn out to be. With 
reference to conservation and practical applica- 
tions, it also matters why a certain subset of 
species exists in each region of the Earth, and 
what is happening to each one year by year. 
Unless an effort is made to understand all of 
diversity, we will fall far short of understanding life 
in these important respects, and due to the acceler- 
ating extinction of species, much of our opportunity 
will slip away forever. —E.O. Wilson 
by Miklos DF, Uavardy, 
1975 
A) 
Nan sist hz Spears sel) 
Wey 
World Biogeographical 
Provinces 
This map is the gem of 15 years of thought and 
work on the Whole Earth Catalog. It is the map of 
how the Earth itself has simultaneously produced 
variety and parallels during its long evolution . 
. 
. 
how water, soils, plants, animals, and locations 
near or far from the oceans create provinces of 
similar like. Besides its beauty, it’s being used to 
insure that every biogeographic region of the pla- 
net will have at least one representative ecological 
community preserved. It is a meditative map. 
hs 
Rea 
we 
ss 
The Fragmented Forest 
No land is an island isolated in itself. But each piece 
of intact land, so-called virgin land, is a lovely locale 
matrixed in a jigsaw puzzle of humanized habitats. 
This reality has only recently been addressed. The 
best forester thinking of “habitat islands” is Larry 
Harris. This is a book crucial to all conservationists. 
In my travels in Africa, | dialog with this book. | 
check out the size and scatter of remaining habitat 
islands. | note the distances between “good habitat” 
and ignore political borders. | try to describe the 
linkages (the drainageways, river crossings, moun- 
tain passes, valleys) which might, by acting as safe- 
passage corridors, increase a herd of elephants’ 
effective home range. | lecture on the need for 
these corridors and try to reduce the dangers of mi- 
gration or attempt to soften the contrast between 
rich habitat and farmland with middle-use buffer 
zones. 
As global warmth and Sahelian drought set in, 
many animals and plants will try to move away from 
the changing heat flux. In their way stand cities or 
mono-crops or reservoirs. This too is the reality of 
the latter half of the twentieth century. If you can’t 
move and it’s too hot, you become extinct. The 
Fragmented Forest is by now a classic. You can 
argue about habitat size and minimal viable popula- 
tions but you can’t argue with its messages. 
WORLD BIOGEOGRAPHICAL PROVINCES 
BIODIVERSITY 29 
By scannihg similar provinces | understand why 
Australian eucalyptus do so well in California; why 
the “Mediterranean” regions have similar heritages 
and can look to each other for advice on wine, 
sunlight in art, fire, grasses, and erosion manage- 
ment. —Peter Warshall 
World Biogeographical Provinces Map 
Miklos D. F. Udvardy, S. Brand, T. Oberlander 
1975,1976, 1978; $5 postpaid from: 
Whole Earth Access, 2950 7th Street 
Berkeley, CA 94710; (415) 428-1600 
An old-growth patch sur- 
rounded by a long-rotation 
island that is cutina 
programmed sequence 
to maximize average 
2 
age difference between 
adjacent stands. Alter- 
nate stands are clearcut 
every 35 years but any 
single stand is cleared only 
once in 320 years. 
(Harris’ focus is the Pacific 
Northwest. An indispensable 
book for the Oregonian 
_bioregion.) —Peter Warshall 
All factors considered, an ideal old-growth area 
would occur on a moist site containing surface 
water and a stream. It would contain a topographic 
bench and a riparian strip dominated by hardwood 
species. This same riparian strip would connect it 
with at least two other stands. The site would be at 
a low elevation with a north or east aspect, but 
would ideally extend over a ridge top so that the 
ridge system could be used as a dispersal route 
and so some sunny, south-facing area would be 
included. The site would be as far removed from 
traffic and attendant risks such as wild crown fire 
as possible. It would be nearly surrounded by re- 
placement stands that can serve as a buffer area 
and by at least two stands in early stages of 
growth to provide the full spectrum of successional 
stages in close proximity. 
The Fragmented Forest 
Larry D. Harris; 1984; 211 pp. 
$11.95 ($13.70 postpaid) from: 
University of Chicago Press 
11030 S. Langley Avenue 
Chicago, IL 60628 
(312) 568-1550 #*WEA 
Femevied 
Forest 
pi 
oeocrace 
