80 THE SIMPLE LIFE 
Living Simply 
There are technologically and philosophically simpler ways of living, and they can work 
very nicely, thank you. It isn’t obligatory to be part of a community of like-minded folks, 
but it helps. Best results seem to come when self-congratulation, flagellation or involuntary 
inducement is not involved. Ultimately, it’s less a matter of hardware than of attitude — 
how you relate to the earth and its inhabitants. —JB 
The Riddle of Amish Culture 
The riddle of Amish culture in America is: how does 
it continue to dramatically prosper while unilaterally 
resisting the very core of mainstream American 
prosperity — technology? The surprising answer — 
adaptation and compromise — is given in loving 
detail in this great book. —Kevin Kelly 
The Amish think modern children are spoiled by 
being driven from club to club and lesson to lesson 
in hopes that they will find and express their true 
selves. In contrast, Amish children are washing 
dishes by hand, feeding cows, hauling manure, 
pulling weeds, and mowing lawns. They are 
learning to lose their selves, to yield to the larger 
purposes of family and community. JOY, a widely 
used school motto, reminds children that Jesus is 
first, you are last, and others are in between. 
e 
The inconven- 
ience of walking 
a half-mile to use 
a phone or taking 
messages from 
an answering 
service Is a daily 
reminder that 
membership in 
an ethnic com- 
munity exacts a 
price — a re- 
minder that 
things that are 
too handy and 
too convenient 
lead to sloth and 
pride. 
A community phone shanty 
shared by several farmers. 
The Riddle of Amish Culture 
Donald B. Kraybill; 1989; 
304 pp.; $8.95 ($10.95 post- 
paid) from: Johns Hopkins 
University Press, 701 West 
40th Street, Suite 275 
Baltimore, MD 21211 
(800) 537-5487 
%*WEA 
The Amish have been willing to negotiate. They 
have made numerous technological concessions 
that have reaped handsome financial benefits. 
While holding firm to some taboos, they have not 
allowed religious practices to erode the economic 
base of their community. Their flexibility has 
energized the fiscal and cultural vitality of their 
community. 
Despite their flexibility, the Amish have insisted on 
the supremacy of the group over that of the 
individual. Excessive individualism, which threat- 
ens to splinter the collective order, is simply not 
tolerated. In both childhood and adulthood, the in- 
dividual remains subordinate and submissive to 
community discipline. 
e@ 
They have adamantly opposed government “hand- 
outs,” from Social Security to agricultural subsi- 
dies. This repudiation has baffled government 
bureaucrats. The Amish feared that members who 
were heavily insured and living on government 
“handouts” would have little interest in giving and 
receiving mutual aid. The Amish rejection of Social 
Security and other government subsidies was 
necessary to preserve two cherished ideals: 
community self-reliance and the religious belief 
that church members are obliged to provide for the 
economic welfare of their brothers and sisters. 
Amish Society 
The Amish are a religious community that origi- 
nated in Europe during the Reformation and is 
now concentrated in Ohio, Pennsylvania, and 
Indiana. They are one of the most resilient subcul- 
tures in America and also some of our best 
farmers. Sociologists keep waiting for them to die 
out or otherwise homogenize into the goo of the 
American melting pot, but this they refuse to do. 
This definitive study, by an Amishman turned 
college professor, is a fascinating history and 
provides a detailed look inside the Amish charac- 
ter. Their way of life, which from the outside may 
look hard or dull or quaint or boring, turns out to be 
a model for the necessary values embodied in the 
concepts of community and local politics. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Amish Society, John Hostetler 
+980; 432 pp.; $9.95 ($11.95 
postpaid) from: 
Johns Hopkins University Press 
701 West 40th Street, Suite 275 
Baltimore, MD 21211 
(800) 537-5487 
*WEA 
Amish communities are not relics of a bygone era. 
Rather, they are demonstrations of a different form 
of modernity. 
The tradi- 
tional barn- 
raising, a form 
of economic 
sharing 
in 
times of need, 
symbolizes 
the concern 
Amish 
members 
have for one 
another's 
welfare. 
The Amish people maintain a human rather than 
an organizational scale in their daily lives. They 
resisted the large, consolidated school and the 
proposition that big schools (or farms) were better 
than small ones. A bureaucracy that places pupils 
together within narrow age limits and emphasizes 
science and technology to the exclusion of sharing 
values and personal responsibility is not tolerated. 
The Amish appreciate thinking that makes the 
world, and their own lives, intelligible to them. 
When human groups and units of work become 
too large for them, a sense of estrangement sets 
in. When this happens the world becomes unintel- 
ligible to them and they cease participating in what 
is meaningless. 
SSS SSE 
SE 
ee 
The Simple Life 
Those of us who would like to see the simple life 
become a norm in this great land of ours may find 
this a distressing book. Since Colonial times, 
numerous ideologies of and attempts at simple 
living have flamed briefly, only to be overwhelmed 
by the indomitable spirit of materialism and 
privatism that seems far more native to the 
American character than material simplicity. 
Nevertheless, plain living is an idea that can’t be 
conquered, and in chronicling its history Shi 
relates a considerable sweep of this nation’s 
history and higher yearnings. —Stephanie Mills 
The Simple Life (Plain Living 
and High Thinking in American 
Culture), David E. Shi; 1985; 
332 pp.; $9.95 ($12.45 postpaid) 
from: Oxford University Press 
16-00 Pollitt Drive, Fair Lawn 
NJ 07410; (800) 451-7556 %*WEA 
DAMIDE SHI 
Essentially, it seems, the much-ballyhooed 
“frugality phenomenon” of the 1970s was limited to 
middle-and-upper-middle-class activists. Students, 
professors, environmentalists, consumer advo- 
cates, and idealists of various kinds were its most 
prominent and serious participants, and the 
predictions of a massive shift to simpler ways of 
living among the larger public were overstated. 
e 
The weaknesses seem clear. Proponents of the 
simple life have frequently been overly nostalgic 
about the quality of life in olden times, narrowly 
anti-urban in outlook, and too disdainful of the 
benefits of prosperity and technology... 
. 
The radical critics of capitalism and promoters of 
spartan rusticity among the advocates of the sim- 
ple life would be well advised to acknowledge that 
material progress and urban life can frequently be 
compatible with spiritual, moral, or intellectual 
concerns. As Lewis Mumford, one of the sanest of 
all the simplifiers, stressed in The Conduct of Life: 
“It is not enough to say, as Rousseau once did, 
that one has only to reverse all the current prac- 
tices to be right. . 
. 
. If our new philosophy is well- 
grounded we shall not merely react against the 
‘air-conditioned nightmare’ of 
our present culture; we shall 
also carry into the future many 
elements of quality that this 
culture actually embraces.” 
* 
Down Home 
Country 
Some people go to Amish 
country to gawk, as if they were 
visiting some sort of zoo. But 
many others go to take a look, 
to see for themselves how these 
gentle people manage to live so 
well. 
A consequent tourism has 
developed — serving up both tacky knick-knacks 
and marvelous calico, Disneyfied myth and the 
real thing. Amish furniture and craftwork abounds. 
The food tends to be hearty, cholesterol-ignoring 
and yummy. This tour guide features it all, from 
tacky to terrific. With maps. —JB 
Down Home Country 
Ora E. Miller, Editor 
$5.95/year (1 issue each 
spring) from: Down Home 
Publications, Inc. 
P.O. Box 418 
Millersburg, OH 44654 
