22 WATER 
%*WEA — Available from Whole Earth Access, see p. 2. 
S treaming Wisdom 
Watershed Consciousness in the 20th Century 
By Peter Warshall 
[ 
N OUR TOWNS AND CITIES, two of the essential 
sources of life — water to drink and soil to grow 
food — remain hidden from our eyes. The hills 
and valleys are coated with asphalt, ancient 
streams are buried beneath housing, and soil is 
filler between gas, water and electric piping. 
Watershed consciousness is, in part, an invitation 
to peel off (not discard) the layer of industrial 
and technological activity that hides us from the 
water and soils of our communities. It is an 
invitation to reveal where you live and how your 
body’s plumbing and, in many ways, community 
heart, are connected to Nature’s pathways. 
A watershed is a gatherer — a living place that 
draws the sun and the rain together. Its surface 
of soils, rocks, and plantlife acts as a “commons” 
for this intermingling of sun and water. Physi- 
cally, a watershed takes many shapes. It is drawn 
emblematically in the shape of a teardrop or a 
cupped leaf or a garden trowel to depict the 
oblong dish-shape of the valley with its elevated 
hillslopes which gather runoff toward a central 
stream. But most watersheds do not faithfully 
copy the emblematic drawings. Uplifting or 
faulting or downwarping or layering give them 
a beautiful individuality. Human influences 
may distort or, as in city watersheds and strip- 
mining, completely destroy the original lay of 
the land. The bedrock texture of each watershed 
— its granite or shale, sand or limestone — 
holds (in a sense, cherishes) each watershed’s 
fragile skin of soil. After the sun/water gather- 
ing has been accomplished, the watershed lets 
go: its unused water heading downstream or 
sky-up; its unabsorbed energy turning to heat or 
reflecting back through the atmosphere. This 
seasonal and daily passage of solar fire, water’s 
flow, and the earth’s metabolic breathing is as 
unique, in each watershed, as each human on 
the planet. 
For humans, the watershed (and its big cousin, 
the river basin) is a hydraulic commons — an 
aquatic contract that has no escape clause. From 
the forested headwaters to the agricultural 
midstream valleys to the commercial and 
industrial centers at the river's mouth, good and 
bad news travels by way of water. Did my toilet 
flushing give downstream swimmers a gastroin- 
testinal disease? Did the headwaters clearcut kill 
the salmon industry at the river’s mouth? Did 
my city’s need for water drain off a river and 
close upriver farmland that fed me fresh vege- 
tables? Did a toxic waste dump leak into the 
groundwater table and poison people in the next 
county? Watershed consciousness is, in part, a 
promotional campaign to advertise the mutual 
concerns and needs that bind upstream and 
downstream, instream and offstream peoples 
together. 
This journey is right out your window — among 
the hills and valleys that surround you. It is the 
first excursion of thought into the place you live. 
It is not inner geography — the continuing 
attempt to feel better by mapping the mysteri- 
ous meanderings of our hearts and minds — nor 
is it whole Earth geography — the struggle to 
gain perspective of our place on the planet. It 
focuses on where your water comes from when 
you turn on the faucet; where it goes when you 
flush; what soils produce your food; who shares 
your water supply, including the fish and other 
nonhuman creatures. The watershed way is a 
middle way, singing a local song, somewhere 
close by, between Mind and Planet. 
= O2,0° 23:0) 
68.4 
Adopt-A-Stream 
The more people, the fewer fish, is how it usually 
goes. People tend to abuse streams — often inaa- 
vertently — with a comprehensive menu of 
pollutants. Free-running streams are dammed, 
channeled, and piped. Extensive building and 
pavement speed rain runoff to the point where fish 
eggs are washed away. 
In 1981, Tom Murdoch decided to see if he could 
improve the situation. As an official of Snohomish 
County, Washington, he began a modest program 
of support for community groups and schools that 
were interested in watershed stewardship. He 
called it Adopt-A-Stream. To date, 31 schools and 
24 community groups have joined Adopt-A-Stream 
programs of stream enhancement. Teacher 
workshops have trained more than 200 teachers in 
the Adopt-A-Stream principles. They, in turn, have 
brought Adopt-A-Stream programs to something 
like 20,000 students. 
In 1985, Adopt-A-Stream left its government 
parent and became the Adopt-A-Stream Founda- 
tion. It’s an interna- 
tional affair, including 
states and countries 
of the Pacific Rim. 
Already, there’s a 
lively exchange of 
ideas (and students) 
between Washington 
State and the Japa- 
nese Come Back 
Salmon group. It 
seems certain that 
Adopt-A-Stream 
programs will spread 
across the U. S. 
To hasten that 
process, the founda- 
tion has published a 
Storm drain stencils 
remind citizens to 
protect streams. 
handbook, Adopting A Stream. Though specifi- 
cally aimed at Pacific Northwest readership, the 
principles will work just fine in most of the U.S. and 
anywhere else streams need enhancing. It starts 
with the basics of stream ecology and the effects 
of human activity, so well written and illustrated 
that the chapters could be used directly as a 
lesson plan. Then comes the real meat of the 
book: how to go about adopting a stream. The 
instructions are there, detailed right down to 
suggestions as to how media coverage should be 
arranged. Inspiring examples follow. | am particu- 
larly impressed with the effectiveness of grade- 
school kids — some classes have brought salmon 
back to streams that have been barren 25 years! 
The last few pages present a glossary, an exten- 
sive, up-to-date bibliography, and a list of useful 
names, addresses, and services. 
Adopting A Stream is not only a great handbook, 
it is a model of what a handbook can be. It is a call 
to action. —JB 
Adopting A Stream 
Steve Yates; 1988; 
116 pp.; $9.95 ($12.95 
postpaid) from: 
University of 
Washington Press 
P. O. Box 50096 
Seattle, WA 98145-5096 
(800) 441-4115 %*WEA 
REAM 
4 NORTHIEST HANDBOOK 
GY Hn yd 
4 
OG eco eee 
ASIDES 
We tend to devalue urban streams because many 
of them have lost their pristine beauty, and 
stretches may even seem lifeless. But all of them 
once ran clear, and many supported healthy fish 
populations. City creeks offer great potential for 
clean-up projects, water quality improvements, or 
restoration of salmon runs. Few school or neigh- 
borhood adopt-a-stream projects are more satisfy- 
ing than rejuvenating a damaged urban stream. 
e 
“Over the past eight years I’ve run 1200 to 1400 
kids through the program,” Bayes relates, “and of 
course that gets some of the parents involved, too. 
The number of fish we add to the stream is no big 
deal, but the educational value to the students and 
to the community is immense. | think the most re- 
warding thing of all is having ex-students calling 
up six or seven years later from another town, 
inquiring about a stream problem there and what 
to do about it. It’s good to see the stream ethic 
spread.” ... 
Part of F.I.S.H.’s public awareness campaign has 
been informing people about the impacts of 
dumping antifreeze and used motor oil down 
storm drains. Bothell High students also 
joined Woodinville High School students to 
create “Sally Sockeye” and “Cathy Coho” — 
two salmon costumes — to wear when 
explaining salmon life cycles to elementary 
school students. “Sally and Cathy” have also 
appeared at city and county council hearings 
to ask “Why aren’t land use regulations that 
are intended to protect streams and water- 
sheds being enforced?” Schultz agrees with 
other adopt-a-stream “parents” that “if you 
don’t raise the awareness of the community 
and the interest of government agencies, 
planting fish is all for naught.” 
One valuable experience is to drive (or 
bicycle) around the stream’s immediate 
watershed, stopping at access points, espe- 
cially upstream of the stream section you 
plan to adopt. This tour will give you a feel 
for the land uses affecting the stream, the 
condition of the riparian zones, and the 
number of landowners or user groups af- 
fected by your projects. 
Sockeye 
