%*WEA — Available from Whole Earth Access, see p. 2. 
LEER 
a 
eee Ss 
Man of the Trees 
Richard St. Barbe Baker was a man ahead of his 
time, so far ahead in fact that nearly a decade 
after his death, the reforestation concepts he was 
preaching sixty years ago are just beginning to 
enter the popular consciousness. He traveled the 
globe teaching people the importance of planting 
trees, and his description of forests as the lungs of 
the earth anticipated in a conceptual way the Gaia 
Theory debated today. It’s fair to call him a pioneer 
of environmental restoration. 
The book Man of the Trees is short selections of 
St. Barbe Baker’s writing, taken from seven of his 
many books. The video by the same name is a 
documentary of his life, and includes a great 
sequence with him hugging a big tree as he 
explains that he does this daily as a way of 
gathering energy and charging up his batteries. 
Who knows, in another sixty years maybe we'll 
understand that too. —Richard Nilsen 
e 
For hundreds of miles we had been passing 
through a graveyard of dying races. That solitary 
tree we had recorded indicated the extent and 
speed at which the Saharan octopus has spread 
itself. It was hard to believe that when Livingstone 
was exploring Nyasaland, this area was part of the 
great rain forests of Nigeria. In other areas, flour- 
ishing farms have disappeared within the memory 
of man, and later during this expedition | was to 
trudge through sand wastes which had been my 
forest haunts when | had been in Africa thirty 
years ago. Here one could actually see all the 
process of degradation, from high forest through 
the stages of orchard-bush and savannah to 
drifting sand. 
Man of the Trees Video (VHS); $23 postpaid: 
catalog free from: Music for Little People, P. O. 
Box 1460, Redway, CA 95560; (800) 346-4445 
Man of the Trees 
Karen Gridley, Editor 
1989; 115 pp.; $12.50 ($13.50 
postpaid) from: Ecology Action 
5798 Ridgewood Road 
Willits, CA 95490 3*WEA 
Wildlife Habitat 
Enhancement Council 
© 
Corporations control lots of land, and often have 
little idea what's happening on it (think of the miles 
of power-line right-of-ways stretching across the 
landscape). This two-year-old organization is a 
cooperative venture between some very large 
U.S. corporations and some very mainline conser- 
vation groups. The goals appear to be restoring 
landholdings to environmental usefulness, making 
the public happy, and polishing tarnished images a 
bit. Let’s see, that’s win, win, win. If you live next 
to some BIG neighbors, these folks might be able 
to help you meet them. —Richard Nilsen 
Wildlife Habitat Enhancement Council 
Membership $100;1010 Wayne Avenue/Suite 
210, Silver Spring, MD 20910; (301) 588-8994 
Case Study: Delaware, Maryland and Virginia. 
Company: Delmarva Power & Light, Vienna 
Power Plant. Habitat: The Nanticoke River, a 
Chesapeake Bay tributary. Project: Delmarva 
Power constructed a $50,000 brooding pond on its 
Vienna Power Plant grounds to help save the 
dwindling striped bass population in the Chesa- 
peake Bay and its tributaries. Since 1985, Del- 
marva Power has released more than 40,000 
striped bass fingerlings or rockfish into the Nanti- 
coke River in Maryland. 
The Man Who Planted Trees 
Jean Giono’s short story about a treeplanting 
hermit in the south of France is a parable of 
restoration. The oaks and beeches sown by this 
one man over forty years transform an entire 
region which had been degraded by deforestation. 
The animated film of this inspiring story is not just 
good, it’s excellent — winning an Oscar in 1987. 
Frederic Back’s drawing is soft, shimmering, and 
uses a point of view that’s constantly in motion. 
RESTORATION 35 
Christopher Plummer narrates. The video version 
is packaged with two other animated shorts by 
Back; one of them, Crac!, also won an Oscar in 
1982. 
—Richard Nilsen 
[Suggested by Tom Waller] 
This story has also been made into a wonderful 
book with striking wood engravings by Michael 
McCurdy. The hardback version in particular is a 
treasure both for its subject matter and its high 
quality of production. —Susan Erkel Ryan 
The Man Who Planted Trees Video (VHS) 
$33.45 postpaid from: CBC Home Video 
P.O. Box 6440/Station A, Montreal, QC 
H3C 3L4, Canada; (514) 597-4040 
The Man Who Planted Trees 
Jean Giono; 1985; 51 pp.; $6.95 
(paperback); $13.50 (hardcover) 
($8.95 & $16 postpaid) from: 
Chelsea Green Publishing Co. 
P.O. Box 130, Route 113 
Post Mills, VT 05058 
(800) 445-6638 [in VT 
(802) 878-0315] 
WEA 
Case Studies in 
Environmental Hope 
Yes, the postage does cost more than the book, 
but this “accentuate the positive” collection of 
eighteen case studies in environmental progress 
from Western Australia is the kind of effort that 
every bio-region on the planet should be publish- 
ing. Buy one and use it as a model. 
—Richard Nilsen 
[Suggested by Stephen Hodgkin] 
Case Studies in Environmental 
Hope, Peter Newman, Simon 
Neville, and Louise Duxbury, 
Editors; $6* ($13.50 postpaid) 
from: E.P.A. Support Services 
2nd Floor, 1 Mount Street 
Perth, WA 6000, Australia 
* Prices quoted are in Australian dollars. 
The cheapest way to buy this book is to 
get Australian currency at an exchange 
and send cash: a bank check adds a lot to the cost. 
Environmental Restoration 
In 1988, John Berger and his organization Restor- 
ing the Earth sponsored a landmark conference in 
Berkeley, California, that helped put environmental 
restoration on the map. This book, a collection of 
the technical papers from the conference, demon- 
strates the amazing diversity of restoration 
projects and of the people and groups doing them. 
Restoration ecology is giving amateur and profes- 
sional earth workers a common place to hang their 
hats. —Richard Nilsen 
Environmental Res- 
R 
toration, John J. Berger 
Editor; 1990; 298 pp. 
$19.95 ($21.95 post- 
paid) from: Island Press 
P.O. Box 7, Covelo, CA 
95428; (800) 828-1302 
WEA 
Woodland restorations vary in composition and 
structure depending on their purposes. 
. 
. 
. Pest 
species, in this context, are plants that interfere 
with such restoration goals. The plants may be 
native or nonnative, and the same species may 
Rolly Carrol of 
Westralian Sands, 
and his tree tubes. 
Following sandmining, the deep sands are left in 
an almost unconsolidated form, and are very 
difficult to rehabilitate. Rolly reasoned that if a 
plant had very deep roots and very few leaves, it 
would stand a greater chance of survival than nor- 
mal seedling stock. He developed a method using 
split PVC tubing, and now produces plants which 
can be planted all year round, even in paspalum or 
kikuyu grasses, and have a very good chance of 
out-competing the weeds and flourishing. 
operate as a pest in 
one situation but not 
in another. ... These 
effects are reinforced 
by microclimate 
changes brought 
about by the pres- 
ence of pest species. 
In woodlands, such 
changes can include 
increased shade, re- 
duced moisture avai- 
lability, and changes 
in soil fertility. For 
example, in the Mid- 
west, Eurasian 
species often have a 
longer growing sea- 
son than American 
species. Woodland 
spring ephemerals 
require high sun levels to bloom and produce food. 
Such levels typically occur under the leafless April 
and May canopies of native trees and shrubs. 
These herbs are weakened when their habitat is 
invaded by Eurasian species which produce solid 
canopies as early as April in parts of the Midwest. 
Harvesting a wild seed 
assortment with a Grin 
Reaper. 
