30 SAVING SPECIES 
Where Have All the Birds 
Gone? 
The biosphere is knit together by species that 
migrate long distances, like fish and birds. This 
book synthesizes recent research about where 
birds spend the winter, in Central America, after 
summering in the US and Canada, and shows 
how changes in both their northern and southern 
habitats may now threaten their survival. It makes 
a strong case for international cooperation in 
identifying and protecting preserves for species 
that don’t recognize the political boundaries 
humans draw. 
Terborgh combines the enthusiasm of an amateur 
birdwatcher with the analytical skills of a scientist. 
Birders will enjoy learning how the pieces of the 
migration puzzle fit together. They may also be 
proud to see how much their recreational record- 
keeping has contributed to our understanding of 
the links between ecologies. 
—Robert Horvitz 
Where Have All the Birds 
Gone?, John Terborgh; 1989 
207 pp; $14.95 ($16.20 post- 
paid) from: Princeton Univer- 
sity Press, 41 William St. 
Princeton, NJ 08540 
(609) 896-1344 9 WEA 
joy TERROR 
Changes in wooded area of Cadiz Township, Green 
County, WI, during the period of European settle- 
ment. Within the span of one human lifetime, the 
total area in forest was reduced by more than 90 % 
and broken into over 60 fragments having an 
average area of 0.16 % that of the original forest. 
World Wildlife Fund 
WWF Is one of the world’s major conservation 
organizations, with 800,000 members and a $31 
million annual budget. With that sort of heft, they 
should be effective, and they are. Besides well- 
known programs that have led to the banning of 
much international traffic in wildlife species and 
products, WWF supports the protection of individ- 
ual species and their habitats, and the scientific 
investigations that make that protection effective. 
They sponsor multinational programs that devel- 
op citizen appreciation of the importance of pro- 
tecting their local wildlife. They train wildlife profes- 
sionals (you, perhaps?). 
Wildlife populations are 
monitored, and endangered species lists are pub- 
lished. And of course, WWF lobbies vigorously. | 
am frankly amazed at the breadth of their efforts 
— just listing their work would fill this page. —JB 
World Wildlife Fund; Information free from: 
1250 Twenty-Fourth Street, NW, Washington, DC 
20037; (202) 293-4800 
Mama Poc 
We generally review 
“here’s-what’s-being- 
done-about-it” action 
rather than the “what’s- 
wrong” outrage and 
warnings so adequately covered by other publi- 
cations. We do read the what’s-wrong literature 
though, paying particular attention to that illu- 
minating an unfortunate process. Here, we read 
the first-person account of an American woman 
who took on the difficult task of organizing a 
movement to save an endangered Guatemalan 
grebe — the Poc. She goes through the usual 
paintul learning curve of the displaced naive 
American meddler, finally embedding herself in the 
culture well enough to enlist local support (and to 
develop a heartbreaking love life). For awhile, 
things go well. A Poc refuge is built, the Poc 
population grows. But ultimately, she fails not only 
to save the Pocs, but to preserve their lake. Her 
failure stems from the usual (but in this case 
especially cruel) combination of natural disaster, 
development pressure, political dishonesty and 
military exigency. Though she misses no opportu- 
nity for dramatic storytelling, she does not spare 
herself blame. Her story makes it clear that such 
efforts are most likely doomed unless done at a 
scale that can encompass the complex interac- 
tions of cause and effect. The lesson is taught 
from the heart. —JB 
Mama Poc (An Ecologist’s 
Account of the Extinction of 
a Species), Anne La Bastille 
1990; 313 pp.; $19.95 post- 
paid from: National Book Co. 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
(800) 233-4830 2*WEA 
There, to our great surprise, we were met with 
stares of horror. We tied up our three boats and 
hurried to the mayor's office. Children and women 
scurried away in fright. No one spoke to us. 
Finally, we learned from the Secretary that the 
color I’d chosen for the uniforms of Operation 
Protection Poc was the same as that worn by 
insurgent guerrillas! 
e 
In February | sent a cable to Edgar, asking for 
information. Nothing came back. 
Late in May | received a letter from Pedro with a 
clipping from the newspaper. On May 7, 1982, 
Edgar had been killed by unknown assailants on 
his farm at night. His buildings were burned 
down. The World Wildlife Fund boat had disap- 
peared. 
Preserving Communities 
& Corridors 
A handful of well-chosen examples take the 
place of pedantry in showing the basic principles 
of wildlife preservation in a time of reduced 
habitat. It’s a lot more complicated than you 
might think. The terms ‘migration’ and ‘range’ 
take on a more exact and insistent meaning 
here. No Bambi-eyes stuff; scientists track a 
radio-equipped bear as it riskily traverses 200 
miles of human-infested Florida, teaching us a 
lot more about what bears really do and need. (It 
even stopped to covertly watch fireworks! 
Luckier than many of its colleagues, it managed 
to dodge the cars.) The book makes it clear 
what the problems are, and what will probably 
work best to help our wilder companions survive 
our proximity. Rich and realistic. —JB 
Preserving Commu- 
nities & Corridors, Gay 
Mackintosh, Editor; 1989 
96 pp.; $10 postpaid from: 
Defenders of Wildlife 
1244 Nineteenth Street 
NW, Washington, DC 
20036; (202) 659-9510 
A Growing Constituency 
Perhaps the greatest potential source of support 
for funding the Fish and Wildlife Conservation Act 
is the wildlife-watching American public — so far 
essentially silent on this issue. Nongame wildlife- 
related activities are of great interest to Americans. 
A 1980 survey by the Fish and Wildlife Service 
and the Bureau of the Census found that 83 
million adults engaged in watching, photographing, 
or feeding birds or other wildlife in 1980, and 93 
million participated in some form of non-consump- 
tive wildlife activity that year (U.S. Fish and Wildlife 
Service 1982). By 1985, when the national survey 
of fishing, hunting, and wildlife-associated recrea- 
tion was conducted again, this constituency had 
expanded dramatically: 110 million Americans 
(more than half of all adults) actively participated in 
nonconsumptive wildlife-related activities, and 74 
percent were classified as “nonconsumptive par- 
ticipants” (U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 1987b). 
These numbers continue to grow. Birdwatching, 
in fact, is currently ranked as one of this coun- 
try’s most popular outdoor recreational activities. 
Although the wildlife-viewing constituency is not 
particularly vocal or well organized, it represents 
the great majority of Americans, who enjoy wildlife 
in nonconsumptive ways and who believe it is 
the responsibility of the government to prevent 
species from being exterminated. 
. 
Endangered Species UPDATE 
In response to federal legislation, the U.S. Fish 
and Wildlife Service has developed thousands of 
recovery and/or reintroduction plans for endan- 
gered plant and animal species. They are dis- 
cussed in the Service's Endangered Species 
Technical Bulletin. Budget cuts in the Reagan 
years limited distribution, so the Bulletin’s con- 
tents are now reprinted in Endangered Species 
UPDATE along with 
longer articles, opinion 
and book reviews. The 
total package provides 
an interesting look at one 
form of restoration — the 
restocking of individual 
species into their original 
environment. 
—Dave Egan 
ered Species 
UPDAT 
\ 
Reprinted with the permision of the Caspar Star Tribune and Greg Kearrey 
Endangered Species UPDATE, Suzanne 
Jones, Editor; $23/year (10 issues) from: School 
of Natural Resources, University of Michigan 
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1115; (313) 763-3243 
