84 WASTEWATER 
We All Live Downstream 
From the karst (limestone) watersheds of Eureka 
Springs comes the most radical support for 
waterless toilets. Plagued by underground pollu- 
tion, The Water Center has produced the only in- 
print book surveying dry toilets — from commercial 
varieties to home-grown; from incinolets to 
moulder (cold, slow compost) varieties. | would like 
more about dry toilet headaches; flies, shock 
loading, maintenance, installation, quality of final 
compost. But there is no better access. 
Downstream also surveys greywater systems and 
community water politics, knowing full well that 
water connects and our feces are but fine fertiliz- 
ers for future food. An impressive, populist produc- 
tion. —Peter Warshall 
We All Live Downstream 
| eAisinEAn 
(A Guide To Waste Treatment 
| 
— 
That Stops Water Pollution) 
Pat Costner with Glenna Booth 
and Holly Gettings; 1986; 92 pp. 
$6.95 ($7.95 postpaid) from: 
Bookpeople, 2929 5th St. 
Berkeley, CA 94710; (800) 624-4466 **WEA 
e 
Our entire culture was toilet-trained to water in 
only a few generations. The fundamental measure 
of social competence and acceptability became 
* the ability to relate successfully to a flush toilet. 
More than the car, telephone or television (and 
certainly more than the eagle), the water toilet is 
the symbol of our society. 
In its change from novelty to apparent necessity, 
the water toilet also changed our culture’s attitude 
toward water. The status of water plummeted from 
“sacred source of life” to “waste sump.” At the 
same time, the water toilet changed our attitudes 
toward our body products. By interrupting the 
return of feces and urine to the soil, the water toilet 
hid their purpose as links in the food chain. 
On-Site Wastewater 
Treatment Systems 
This booklet gives you a look at conventional 
home septic systems and some available alterna- 
tives. All are explained and illustrated. Just what 
you need to read if you’re considering a domestic 
wastewater treatment system. With glossary and 
annotated bibliography. —JB 
On-Site Wastewater 
Treatment Systems 
Technical Bulletin No. 6 
Tad Montgomery 
1990; 24 pp. 
$4.50 ($6.50 postpaid) from: 
New Alchemy Institute 
237 Hatchville Road 
East Falmouth, MA 02536 
(508) 564-6301 
The EPA National Small Flows Clearinghouse, 258 Ste- 
wart Street, West Virginia University, Morgantown WV 
26506; phone: 800-624-8301. This organization was set 
up in 1977 through the Clean Water Act in order to 
facilitate the design, planning and construction of innova- 
tive and alternative decentralized wastewater treatment 
facilities in areas where conventional systems are not 
economically feasible. Programs include a newsletter, 
computer bibliographies on topics ranging from com- 
posting toilets to failing septic systems, design modules to 
help in evaluating technologies ranging from mound 
systems to vacuum sewers, septage management and 
novel alternatives, and case studies of a number of differ- 
ent decentralized waste systems. A forthcoming project 
involves the videotaping of various aspects of select waste 
treatment technologies. 
ON-SITE. WASTEWATER 
TREATMENT SYSYEMS 
Gray Water Use 
in the Landscape 
Waste has become synonymous with the Ameri- 
can lifestyle, and our use of water is no exception. 
Altho government policy wastes water it isn’t 
necessary that the individual do the same, so as 
agribiz empties aquifers it’s possible for individuals 
to conserve their own. 
Despite our American lifestyle, middle-class sani- 
tation hangups and archaic health codes, “gray 
water,” anything that’s not sewage, !s still useful, 
even tho it may have just finished washing your 
dishes. Robert Kourik, author of the Edible 
Landscape book (p. 48), gives us some practical 
ways to convert household plumbing to a gray- 
water system, diverting water that used to go 
down the tubes to irrigation instead. 
Kourik’s pamphlet is based on his experiences 
during the last California drought, when he 
struggled with a bureaucracy that briefly relaxed 
the rules to permit legal experimentation. It’s con- 
servative, but will guide the conversion of a home 
plumbing system into a home irrigation system, a 
subtle form of un-American behavior that your 
local aquifer will appreciate. —Dick Fugett 
Once a year Edible Publications will produce a 26 
page update to Gray Water Use in the Land- 
scape. Also by the time you read this, Edible 
Publications will offer the “Graytest Little Catalog 
of Grayt Products” including gray water laundry 
%*WEA — Available from Whole 
Earth Access, see p. 2. 
Gray Water Use in the Land- 
scape, Robert Kourik; 1988; 
25 pp.; $6 postpaid #*WEA 
Graytest Little Catalog 
and update information 
Ali from: Edible Publications 
P.O. Box 1841, Santa Rosa, CA 95402 
soap with a NPK rating of 4-2.9-6.1 and 7.7 pH 
which comes out of your machine as gray water 
fertilizer, plus gray water reuse systems and 
components and much more. Can't wait to see it!! 
O @ ary (oS 
#1 existing pipe from gray water source 
#2 trap 
#3 vent pipe 
#4 no-hub connector (with two hose clamps) 
#5 sanitary wye (ABS) 
#6 street % bend (ABS) 
#7 piece of ABS pipe as connector 
#8 PVC ball valve 
#10 existing pipe to sewer/septic 
Always cut into your existing plumbing after 
(down hill from) the vent pipe(s). If you're cutting 
into metal pipe you must use a no-hub connector 
and tighten the two hose clamps carefully. 
Septic Tank Practices 
A modest title for a book that 
clearly lays out aspects of various 
types of on-site sewage treatment 
and their relationship to soil, water 
use, construction, maintenance, 
and politics. Written by a brilliant 
biologist who has integrated 
theory with a practical hands-on 
: 
approach. 
—Sim Van Der Ryn 
This book is wonderful — outrageous and authori- 
tative simultaneously. —Stewart Brand 
Septic Tank Practices; Peter Warshall; 1979; 
177 pp.; $4.95 ($7.95 postpaid) from: Whole 
Earth Access, Mail Order Dept., 2990 Seventh 
Street, Berkeley, CA 94710; (800) 845-2000 
Turn the faucet, and magically "clean water" ap- 
pears. Flush, and "magically" everything empties 
into the unknown. 
iL 
Annals of Earth 
Is it possible to regularly publish news of applied 
ecology without endlessly reclothing the same old 
stuff in trendy garb? You bet your bippy it is! As 
edited by Nancy Jack Todd, Annals reports brave 
experiments — proposed and in progress, physi- 
cal and intellectual — in articles by the experi- 
menters themselves. It’s a good place to keep up 
with the works of Ocean Arks (opposite) and the 
New Alchemy Institute (p.83) as well as a great as- 
sortment of other enterprises. This is one of the 
few publications | subscribe to. —JB 
Annals of Earth, 
Nancy Jack Todd, 
Editor; $10/year 
(4 issues) from: 
Annals of Earth 
10 Shanks Pond 
Road, Falmouth, 
MA 02540 
= Annals of Earth 
cada vc aon ohare tarde SE, 
on ae 
Low-Water-Use Toilets 
Here’s a bit of odoriferous trivia: If you sun-dried 
an entire year’s worth of your excrement (down- 
wind, | trust), it would fit into a couple of 
shoeboxes. It would also be a highly concentrated 
source of many useful minerals and other sub- 
stances. If you're typical, you flush it away instead, 
propelling it with approximately 1800 gallons of 
purified drinking water that must be expensively 
dealt with in your septic system or municipal 
sewage treatment plant. The resulting discharge, 
“effluent,” tends to be troublesome rather than 
helpful. The useful chemistry is, of course, lost. 
Add another 1800 gallons of water per year for 
each additional daily flush, and multiply that times 
population. Large-scale folly, yes? Matched only 
by the large-scale problems involved in doing 
something about it. 
Low-water-use toilets are 
a good start. The best of 
them use only 1.5 gallons 
per flush — a mere drop in 
the bucket compared to an 
old-style water closet’s 5 gal- 
lon thirst. Yes, 1.5 gallons will 
Aqualine 
175 
still rinse the toilet bowl and carry 
ee 
me 
the load to where it must go (as- 
suming the pipes are sloped ac- 
cording to code), but parents 
will find that diaper-sloshing 
doesn’t work very well. New 
designs coming soon will 
take care of that problem. 
me! 
Even more water is saved 
by Japanese models not yet 
eS 
available here. They incorpo- 
eae 
rate a hand-washing sink into 
rs Nae 
Cascade 
the tank top. The “grey water"is_ 
=~ =" >\ $495 
then reused for flushing. Clever! 
And obvious, too, but nobody 
thought of it before because until 
recently, 
water 
supplies 
seemed inexhaustible. 
—WJB, who actually tried 
the shoebox bit. 
Veneto 
$350 
Low water use toilets available from Resource 
Conservation Technology, p. 56, and Real Goods, p. 58. 
