RST 
a ae 
ee 
The Ecologist 
Edited by the ebullient Teddy Goldsmith, this 
British mag is a nice mix of careful and radical. It 
has a strong point of view, lots of good ideas, and 
considerable effect. —Stewart Brand 
The Ecologist 
Edward Goldsmith 
Nicholas Hildyard, 
Peter Bunyard, Editors 
$30/year (six issues) 
from: 
MIT Press Journals 
55 Hayward Street 
Cambridge, MA 02142 
(617) 253-2889 
‘art & the Ecological Css 
An Open Letter to Mrs. Thatcher 
Dear Prime Minister, 
It is heartening that you should have chosen the 
occasion of your speech to the UN General 
Assembly to address the ecological crisis facing 
our planet. It was a timely speech and, given the 
global nature of the problems, a highly appropriate 
forum to make it. 
That said, the contents of your speech are worry- 
‘(ate Eee 
Nothing could demonstrate the wrong-headedness 
of your approach better than your decision to 
donate £100 million to the Tropical Forestry Action 
Plan (TFAP). As a publicity stunt, it is capital. 
However, in terms of saving the world’s tropical 
forests, it is a disaster. The TFAP, as has been 
exhaustively documented in The Ecologist, is nota 
plan to save the forests. As its name makes clear, 
its a plan to extend forestry — in effect, to pro- 
mote commercial plantations. Indeed, its conser- 
vation programme consists of no more than 
assisting “in the establishment of a national 
network of protected areas designed to 
conserve representative samples of 
ecosystems.” The forests will thus be 
reduced to ecological Disneylands — a few 
isolated islands to satisfy tourists and 
scientists but a little value in terms of the 
global ecosystem. 
We urge you to withdraw Britain’s support 
for the TFAP. We urge you too to broaden 
your choice of advisors to include those 
whom you refer to as “so-called greens”. 
It 
is they who have correctly predicted the 
crisis and diagnosed its causes — not the 
industrialists, scientists and civil servants 
BESS 
ee ee ase ee 
New Scientist 
My primary source of scientific and technical 
information is the wide-ranging reporting in this 
British weekly. Droll wit abounds, and the some- 
times rather nasty criticism and comment spares 
nobody, including the USA, thus integrating a 
useful political viewpoint not usually found in 
science periodicals. Technical articles are models 
of clarity, offering ready access to potentially 
difficult concepts. Environmental concerns are 
accented. At the Whole Earth offices, the latest 
issue grows legs immediately and is not seen 
again until months later, if ever. | have my own 
subscription. —JB 
New Scientist 
= 
Michael Kenward, Editor 
| NewSe#€ 
$115/year (51 issues) 
eet aa 
from: New Scientist 
oer 
Subscriptions, Freepost 
1061, Oakfield House, 
Perrymount Road, 
Haywards Heath, West 
" 
Sussex RH16 3ZA 
[ i 
England 
Drought and famine develop over months and 
years, yet details tend to emerge too late to avert 
death and suffering. But remote sensing by 
satellite can give us data that can warn of immi- 
nent disaster or provide effective emergency relief 
for remote areas. Depending on their orbits, 
satellites can produce images of the same area at 
intervals ranging from a few hours to a few weeks. 
Those images can pinpoint the extent and severity 
of sudden disasters, but long-term monitoring, 
over months and years can document changes 
that foretell drought and famine. 
PUBLICATIONS 113 
Great Presses 
Our staff and friends have learned that a book 
from any of these presses is likely to be the best 
on the subject and might even become a classic of 
its kind. —JB 
Sierra Club Books 
A library made up of books from this press would 
be a fine library indeed. A look at their list will 
always prove enticing. (And, by the way, that 
library exists, in San Francisco. It’s available to 
members of the Sierra Club.) For example, | just 
received a review copy of a new Sierra Club book, 
Call to Action. It’s a well-named collection of 
rousing essays, mostly by well-known fighters for 
the Good & the True. Each section concludes with 
a list of specific actions you might attempt or join. 
If you've heard it all already, check the bibliogra- 
phy and source lists — they're among the most 
useful I’ve seen. And there’s a wonderful glossary 
of Tools, Terms, and Tactics. This book may be 
the best introduction to environmental action 
around — just the place for a newcomer to start 
their homework, and just the place for an oldtimer 
to make sure they aren't missing anything. —JB 
Call To Action 
(Handbook for Ecology, 
Peace, and Justice) 
Brad Erickson, Editor 
1990; 250 pp. 
$12.95 ($15.95 postpaid) 
Sierra Club Books 
Catalog free 
Both from: 
Sierra Club Books 
730 Polk Street 
San Francisco, CA 94109; (415) 923-5500 
Island Press 
“Ohboy, another new book from Island Press!” is 
our usual reaction — | think I’ve read every book 
they publish (and reviewed a good many). Their 
tasty catalog also stocks some of the best offer- 
ings from other good presses. —JB 
Island Press; Catalog free from: P.O. Box 7 
Covelo, CA 95428; (800) 828-1302 
Peregrine Smith Books 
Peregrine Smith Books has made a business out 
Cave painting of a bison at Altamira, Spain. “Art has 
always been a crucial means whereby we establish 
our place spiritually in the macrocosm. Its meaning, 
purpose and origin lie in that deep strata of hope and 
of doing right by books on worthy subjects. 
—Richard Nilsen 
They’re gorgeous! —Susan Erkel Ryan 
whom you have so far relied upon for advice. 
Much of what the greens have to tell you may at 
first appear unpalatable. But if we are to leave a 
world fit for future generations to live in, it is critical terror with which our ancestors, facing an over- 
that you act on their recommendations. —The 
Editors 
The Workbook 
One of the most significant developments in 
social-change movements in this decade has been 
the common perception among peace, environ- 
mental, and social-issue activists that their causes 
are inextricably linked: for example, “environ- 
mental” groups like Epoca are doing community 
development work in Central America with the 
belief that peace is the first step toward ecological 
restoration. And gay and lesbian organizations are 
joining the peace movement in greater force 
because they see the direct connection between 
military spending and lack of funds for AIDS 
research. The strength of Jesse Jackson's 1988 
campaign indicates that these new coalitions are 
definitely coming of age. 
The Workbook, published by the Southwest 
whelming universe, sought to communicate with it.” 
Research and Information Center, has covered 
this broad, interrelated range of concerns for over 
a decade. Each issue features a long research 
article and related further-reading reviews, and a 
core section of reviews by their specialty editors of 
new books and publications in education, econom- 
ics, nutrition, third world issues, the environment, 
women, work, and more. The Workbook’s 
The Workbook 
Kathy Newton, Editor 
$12/year (4 issues) from: 
The Workbook 
SRIC, P. O. Box 4524 
Albuquerque, NM 87106 
(505) 262-1862 
HE 
oo 
Cue) 
Peregrine Smith Books; Catalog free from: 
P. O. Box 667, Layton, UT 84041 
(801) 544-9800 
greatest service is that their reviews include 
special reports from research institutes and 
universities that you probably wouldn’t hear about 
anywhere else — with ordering information. Highly 
recommended. —Jeanne Carstensen 
e 
The Workbook cited. “Food Irradiation: Its Environ- 
mental Threat, Its Toxic Connection,” published in 
the April/June 1988 issue of The Workbook, was 
selected as the fourth most overlooked news story 
of 1988. The Workbook article, written by Judith H. 
Johnsrud, Ph.D. and edited by Julie Jacoby, 
shared the honors in Project Censored’s Ten Best 
Censored Stories of 1988 with “Update on Food 
Irradiation,” a JoAnne Korkki article published in 
the December 1988/January 1989 issue of 
Northern Sun News. 
