Solar Aquatics 
By John Todd 
picts THE 1970s I was part of a social and 
scientific experiment known as New Alchemy. New 
Alchemy was, and still is, a small, not-for-profit “think 
tank” that created working models of agricultural and 
architectural systems based upon the teachings of 
nature (p. 83). My time there convinced me that 
ecology would shape culture in the twenty-first century, 
that the next frontier lay in shaping economic life 
within an ecological framework. It seemed then, and 
still does, to be the only way to balance the needs of 
humanity and the dictates of the environment. Without 
such a balance our civilization would decay in its own 
poisons. The ecological imperative also seemed the 
only path to begin to right the inequities between rich 
and poor nations. 
My experience had taught me that third-world people 
don’t want any part of what they perceive as second- 
class technologies but respect those of the mainstream 
of industrial cultures. And by then the time seemed 
right to test my ecological business ideas in that 
mainstream. To be successful, a new kind of environ- 
mentally responsible wealth had to be created and the 
technologies to do so had to be accessible not only to 
the capitalist, but also to the peasant farmer on the 
hillsides of tropical America. 
With two friends I formed a for-profit corporation to 
develop ecological technologies. It was to be a hybrid 
between a design studio and commercialization 
organization. We targeted ocean farming, wastewater 
purification and “smart” houses as potential areas to 
develop. 
Our course was charted by my personal response to an 
impending local crisis. The drinking water of Falmouth, 
my town in Massachusetts, had deteriorated badly and 
our cancer rates were climbing alarmingly. The 
necessity of buying bottled water to help protect me and 
my family raised a problem I couldn’t get out of my 
mind. Water is the basis of all life. I reasoned that the 
quality of water determines the quality of life from 
amoeba to butterfly to human. Thousands of toxic and 
cancer-causing substances are entering the planetary 
waters each day. Reflecting on the state of the water re- 
organized my priorities. For over fifteen years, begin- 
ning at New Alchemy, I had raised fish and had learned 
innumerable tricks to purify water in order to keep the 
fish healthy. It seemed logical to use the same biologi- 
cal techniques and apply them to purifying water, 
sewage and other waste streams. An ecosystem 
approach, while dramatically different from conven- 
tional waste engineering, seemed to me to be the best 
long-term solution to upgrading water quality not only 
on Cape Cod, but throughout the country. 
Contemporary wastewater treatment technologies are 
major environmental polluters. They have failed on at 
least three fronts: 
1. Technically, conventional water treatment produces a 
difficult to dispose of and often toxic by-product called 
sludge. Merely separating the solids from the liquids is 
not waste purification. 
2. Chemically, conventional waste treatment is a failure 
in that the industry uses hazardous compounds in the 
treatment process all of which end up in the environ- 
ment. Chlorine, for example, which is widely used in 
sewage treatment, can combine with organic com- 
pounds to produce chloramines which are known car- 
cinogens. The chlorine industry is a multibillion dollar 
industry. Aluminum salts, often used to precipitate out 
sludge and phosphorus, have been implicated in a 
number of problems from the weakening of the forest to 
Alzheimer's disease. The list is long. 
3. The third failure of the industry is cost ineffective- 
ness. Without the massive federal subsidies of the past, 
communities cannot afford to build and operate 
advanced waste-water facilities. Nor are the conven- 
tional waste treatment technologies designed to produce 
This Solar Aquatics facility treats noxious municipal 
wastewater by natural means. It produces no recalci- 
trant sludge or nasty smells. No toxic chemicals or 
metals are employed or discharged; they're neutralized 
or collected for re-use. It costs far less to build and run. 
It works. It's available now. 
economic by-products. The huge infrastructure of the 
waste treatment industry makes it difficult for it to 
change or adapt. In periods of economic scarcity and in 
looming energy pinches the drive to innovate is 
weakened. 
Such facts cry out for new approaches to water 
management, and new approaches are based on new 
paradigms. The Center for the Protection and Restora- 
tion of Waters will help formulate such ideas. For 
example, what would the world be like if we had four 
basic rules for water? 
1. Treat water at its pollution source. 
2. Discharge as high or higher quality water than is 
received. 
3. Prevent soil and land degradation. Healthy terrestrial 
ecosystems purify water. 
4. Begin any endeavor, from farming to building 
shopping malls, by asking the question: “what does the 
water need?”, and proceed in accordance with those 
needs. 
As it turned out, it was the non-profit structure of 
Ocean Arks International which provided the bulk of 
the support for the new direction. Ecological water 
purification was too risky for venture capital, which un- 
adventurously waits until risks are minimized or 
eliminated. But several environmentally concerned 
foundations liked our ideas for greenhouse-based 
sewage-purifying ecosystems and backed the construc- 
tion and operation of a fifteen-thousand-gallon-capacity 
prototype at Sugarbush, a ski resort in Vermont. 
Without the foundation help our eco-technology plans 
would still be in the drawer. 
The Vermont facility became the base for a number of 
breakthroughs in waste treatment. The ecosystems we 
designed removed toxic ammonia even during the 
extreme cold of a northern winter. Trout and small- 
mouth bass were integral to the system and they grew 
and thrived. Residual sludge was incorporated into the 
food chains leaving only modest amounts of sediments 
which were very low in volatile organic matter. This 
was important as sludge removal and deposition from 
conventional sewage treatment plants is reaching crisis 
proportions. Our ecological technology in Vermont 
created a beautiful, sweet-smelling aquatic environment 
in which wastes are transformed into pure water, plants, 
fishes and diverse life forms. No hazardous chemicals 
were used in the process. 
In 1988, I subsequently designed and the Ocean Arks 
staff built a prototype aquatic ecosystem for the town of 
Harwich on Cape Cod to treat cesspool or septage 
wastes which are pumped by honey wagons from septic 
tanks into holding ponds. Septic wastes are as much as 
one hundred times more concentrated than sewage. No 
conventional current technology does a good, cost- 
effective job of treatment. Toxic substances, restaurant 
fats and greases, and industrial and hospital waste 
products wreak havoc with normal bacteriological 
processes. 
We used complex, photosynthetically based ecosystems 
SOLAR AQUATICS 85 
How It Works 
By harnessing certain biological processes, Solar 
Aquatics imitates the way nature cleans dirty water, 
only much more quickly and thoroughly. The process 
appears simple, and in many ways it is. Briefly, and 
simply, this is how a system works: 
Large, translucent, cylindrical tanks are placed in rows 
inside a greenhouse, positioned and piped in a series so 
that gravity is the driving force creating a stream 
through each line. The first tanks contain largely 
bacteria, algae, and snails, while subsequent tanks 
downstream contain more complex life forms, includ- 
ing higher plants, other mollusks and fish. Wastewater 
is pumped into the first tanks where microscopic 
bacteria attack or consume organic matter, or nutrients, 
which causes their populations to grow. Algae, in turn, 
thrive on nutrients released by the bacteria and grow 
rapidly because of the abundant food source. Snails 
then consume the algae, and on and on it goes: one 
organism thriving on another, consuming one thing and 
being consumed by something else, all the while trans- 
forming the wastewater. Further on plants are rafted on 
the water allowing their oxygen rich roots to fall 
beneath the surface where higher organisms graze. In 
the last tanks fish, such as tilapia and bass, swim around 
in clean water. Final purification takes place in an 
engineered marsh. 
to absorb toxic shock and organic loading. 
Inaugural Projects 
Tue Center's beginning project will involve Solar 
Aquatics: the sun-based method of purifying waste 
without hazardous chemicals. Our “flagship” is the 
Providence plant where, in cooperation with Ecological 
Engineering Associates and eight research and educa- 
tional institutions, we are embarking upon a study of 
the potential of natural systems to transform wastes to 
useful and safe products. We will focus on the fate of 
toxic organics, pathogens and heavy metals in sewage- 
containing industrial wastes. 
At Marion, MA, on the major marine estuary, Buzzards 
Bay, the Center, in partnership with the state of 
Massachusetts, the EPA, the Coalition for Buzzards 
Bay and Ecological Engineering Associates, has built a 
prototype facility to ecologically treat toxic waste 
pumped from boat toilets. Currently 14,000 acres of 
Buzzards Bay are closed to shellfishing, in part because 
of discharge from boats. 
Most recently, in partnership with Ball State University 
Center for Energy Research, we have designed and 
built a small prototype Solar Aquatic facility to treat 
sewage in Muncie, Indiana. Additionally, plans are 
underway for several more Solar Aquatic System 
facilities in a variety of places. 
The first Solar Aquatic System projects have been 
small. The Providence facility treats the wastes of 
approximately 125 households. The Harwich facility 
will treat the septage wastes of several thousand 
residences and can be expanded easily. Solar Aquatics 
can be used to treat millions of gallons daily. Since the 
systems are modular and adaptable to many different 
specifications of climate, waste streams, local geogra- 
phy and population requirements, it is possible to de- 
centralize urban waste treatment and incorporate the 
processes into neighborhoods, producing local econo- 
mies and environmental benefits. 
I N addition to Solar Aquatic Systems, The Center for 
the Protection and Restoration of Waters is currently 
engaged in developing remedies for the effects of acid 
rain. To encourage the spread of such projects, teaching 
and training programs in water stewardship are offered, 
some for academic credit. Ask for information. —JB 
The Center, $30/year (membership includes a sub- 
scription to Annals of Earth, reviewed opposite page) 
from: Ocean Arks International, 1 Locust Street, 
Falmouth, MA 02540; (508) 540-6801 
