70 AUTOMOBILES 
built interiors that exactly meet your needs. 
You probably won't be able to buy tin bin 
versions of foreign-made minivans though; 
they’re still subject to a heavy, punitive tax 
imposed in 1969 specifically to hit VW after 
the German government hassled a boatload of 
American frozen chicken. To think that in a de- 
mocracy, a citizen can’t buy a preferred Japanese 
truck because of a frozen chicken quarrel in Ger- 
many 20 years ago! We live in strange times. 
For people who don’t need the room, there is a 
growing choice of sophisticated subcompacts that 
are capable and sleaze-free (though still rather 
jiggly). They too, await airbags and ABS. They’re 
leading a trend towards specialized urban cars like 
Honda Wagon is frugal, fast, fun, and can be 
had as a 4x4. It needs airbags and antilock brakes 
though. Cargo room engendered by minivan 
shape equals much-respected ’60s Volvo 122. 
the ones already seen in crowded European and 
Japanese cities. But buying a tiny car makes 
sense only if it can accommodate you and your 
stuff. Personally, I'd buy a size larger. A hatchback 
or wagon will be most useful and seem least 
cramped. The Honda Civic Wagon is par- 
ticularly competent, and is available as a 
4x4 for you Michiganders. Cars smaller 
than the Honda may unacceptably compro- 
mise safety, and may also end up costing 
more to run than you’d hope, because of 
depreciation (typically your biggest ex- 
pense) and high insurance premiums. Be- 
fore buying any car, be sure to check insur- 
ance costs. You may find some ugly surprises. 
The auto industry is in a state of flux right now as 
social and environmental concerns begin to affect 
design and to constrain use. It is unlikely that there 
will soon be rapid, large-scale, changes in cars or 
commute patterns. Little by little, the more obnox- 
ious aspects of automobiling will be reduced. 
Meantime, the current auto crop is cleaner, safer 
and better-made than ever before. That isn’t 
enough, but at least it's progress. 
Rethinking the Role of the 
Automobile 
This paper from Worldwatch (see p. 8) is your 
quickest education in basic auto-caused problems 
and the many solutions being proposed and imple- 
mented. In typical Worldwatch manner, the 
presentation is free of jargon, blame-laying, and 
political slant. (This is not to say that controversial 
matters are not discussed.) You need to know 
most of this in order to understand what must be 
done soon. —JB 
A major drawback of all alcohol fuels is that some 
30-40 percent of the original energy content of 
their potential feedstocks (biomass, coal, and 
natural gas) is lost in the conversion process. 
Numerous studies suggest that the total amount of 
energy inputs to obtain ethanol — including 
energy required to fuel farmers’ vehicles, to pro- 
duce fertilizer and pesticides, and to ferment and 
purify the alcohol — may be close to or even 
surpass the eventual energy output. A host of new 
approaches to the distillation process are under 
study, such as continuous fermentation tech- 
niques, new yeasts and enzymes, and the use of 
solar energy. These may one day boost the 
efficiency of alcohol fuel production. 
e 
On average, a 10-percent weight reduction will 
yield a 6-percent fuel economy gain. Past fuel 
‘economy improvements in the United States have 
primarily been accomplished through lowered 
weights and shifts to front-wheel drive. Only 10-15 
percent of the gains came from a shift to smaller 
cars. Fuel efficiency has thus not come at the 
expense of reduced car-interior space. 
® 
Electric vehicles essentially emit no pollutants. 
Their environmental acceptability, however, 
depends on how the electricity that powers them is 
generated. Nonfossil feedstocks would be most 
ideal. Using electricity derived from the current mix 
of power sources in the United States, an electric 
vehicle would release about the same amount of 
CO, as a gasoline-fueled car, more sulfur dioxide, 
but much lower amounts of other pollutants. 
Electric cars running on coal-produced electricity 
would substantially increase the amount of CO, 
released. 
e 
An extensive bike-and-ride system could provide 
significant benefits. The average American 
automobile commuter can reduce his or her 
annual use of gasoline by some 407 gallons — 
equivalent to half the gasoline burned up by a 
typical car in the United States in a year — by 
switching to bike-and-ride. A 1980 Chicago Area 
Transportation Study found that improving bicycle 
access to public transit is the most cost-effective 
way to reduce auto emissions. Thus, transit 
serviceability standards need to be adopted that 
allow easy access to public transit. 
Rethinking the Role of 
the Automobile, Worldwatch 
Paper 84, Michael Renner 
1988; 70 pp.; $4 postpaid from: 
Worldwatch Institute 
1776 Massachusetts Ave., NW 
Washington, DC 20036 
Urban Transit 
“Ah, nothing is so edifying as a bit of heresy. Why, 
Professor Lave even advocates the use of private 
cars instead of mass transit! (Under appropriate 
circumstances, of course.) In any case, his 
willingness to be politically incorrect both to the 
eco-chic and officialdom adds greatly to his cred- 
ibility — an important point if his anti-establishment 
ideas are to be taken seriously by a public that has 
been misinformed by emotional anti-auto ranting. 
His main point is that years of government man- 
agement of public transport systems and policy 
has resulted in drastic inefficiency that would be 
best reduced by privatization. For example, legal- 
izing jitneys results in a system with the flexible 
schedule and routing necessary to serve areas of 
low population density — service that inevitably 
bankrupts the usual municipal transit authority. 
Vehicles can be added or subtracted as conditions 
change, regulated automatically by market de- 
mand. An expensive, inflexible and strike-prone 
mass transport system is thus made obsolete. 
Urban Transit (The Private 
Challenge to Public Transport- 
ation), Charles A. Lave, Editor 
1985; 372 pp.; $12.95 ($14.70 
postpaid) from: Pacific Institute 
for Public Policy Research, 
177 Post St., Suite 500, 
San Francisco, CA 94108 
(415) 989-0833 
WEA 
Where this has been tried, it works fine, despite 
noisy bureaucratic predictions of disaster. Prof. 
Lave makes his points neatly, and answers his 
critics with logic, example, and humor, making the 
book surprisingly easy to read even if you aren’t all 
that interested. Citizens groups and city managers 
need to read this; there are answers here, that can 
be implemented right now. —JB 
....as in the case of the transition from animal to 
mechanized power, the transition from public to 
private transport substitutes capital for labor and in 
particular reduces the need for hired labor. This 
can make the automobile a relatively cost-efficient 
mode of transportation, especially in providing the 
higher quality of transportation that people tend to 
seek as their incomes rise. It is almost impossible 
for conventional public transportation at any cost 
to match the schedule convenience, flexibility 
(e.g., combining shopping or personal trips with 
commuting), privacy, and comfort of the auto- 
mobile. —John R. Meyer 
The most transit-dependent city in the United 
States, New York, now allows private firms to 
operate express bus services. These firms not 
only provide a higher quality of service than the 
city-operated vehicles, but do so at a profit, and 
without government subsidy. —Charles A. Lave 
e 
... artificially jow fares resulted from two goals: 
first, to lure commuters out of their cars — which 
did not work because rising incomes made 
commuters more sensitive to transit quality than to 
transit cost; second, to provide low cost transpor- 
tation for the poor — though it would have been 
far less costly to subsidize them directly, rather 
than erecting a low-fare structure used by rich and 
poor alike. —Charles A. Lave 
e 
It is important to remember that transit did not lose 
passengers because of deficits; it lost passengers 
because it did not provide the kind of service they 
desired. —Charles A. Lave 
e 
Transit need not be limited to conventional buses 
and rail cars. The largest source of public transit 
rides in the United States is the ordinary taxi cab. 
Taxis not only carry more total passengers than 
standard buses or trains, they even carry more 
poor passengers. —Charles A. Lave 
® 
From the viewpoint of the transit planner, it is 
easier to start one new consolidated service than 
to rely on hundreds of vanpool operators or jitney 
drivers. It is hard to believe that a complex task 
can be accomplished via hundreds of small de- 
cisions, though this is exactly the way the energy 
crises were solved. In the midst of the grand 
government debate over which large-scale public 
policy actions might produce the desired result, 
most individuals simply got busy: They insulated 
their houses, bought more fuel-efficient cars and 
appliances, and so forth. —Charles A. Lave 
