RESTORATION 39 
Freshwater pond two years old, 1977. 
The ponds were a prerequisite for my next project 
in restoration, which was the reestablishment of a 
species that had been totally exterminated from 
Bermuda. The early settlers had described herons 
and egrets of several species, so tame that they 
could be clubbed down out of the trees. It wasn’t 
long before they were completely exterminated. 
Although their nearest relations — migrant herons 
from North America — continue to be common as 
transients and winterers, they had never rees- 
tablished nesting colonies. For several years | had 
noticed that one of these species, the crustacean- 
eating yellow-crowned night heron, would eat my 
fertilizer-feeding landcrabs during stopovers on 
Nonsuch. It occurred to me that if | could induce 
night herons to breed on Bermuda, they might 
serve as-a-valuable biological control for these 
crabs, which are generally regarded as a pest on 
lawns and golf courses. 
The fossil discovery of a night heron skeleton in a 
Bermuda sink- 
hole at about 
this time con- 
firmed the wis- 
dom of my 
choice. The 
endemic Ber- 
muda night 
heron had 
clearly been 
derived from 
the yellow- 
crown, but had 
evolved short- 
Night heron nestlings imported 
 &" legs and a 
from Florida. 
heavier bill, 
adaptations 
specific to 
feeding on the heavily armoured terrestrial crabs. 
With Bermuda government funding and support as 
a landcrab biological control measure, | was able 
to obtain nestlings from a large rookery in Tampa 
Bay, Florida. From 1976 to 1978, a total of 44 
yellow-crown nestlings were shipped to Nonsuch 
and reared in an abandoned building. Although 
hand-rearing of this species had never been at- 
tempted before, it proved to be the easiest and 
most successful of my restoration projects. Night 
herons feed their chicks by regurgitation into the 
nest rather than feeding each chick directly. This 
meant that | merely had to place the chopped-up 
crabs onto a food tray. Whenever the chicks were 
hungry they would gather around this tray like 
barnyard chickens. As soon as they were old 
enough to fly, | permitted them to escape from the 
building to learn to hunt on their own, but they con- 
tinued to return to the food tray until they were 
proficient. 
As | had hoped, these herons did not 
leave Bermuda, although they wandered 
extensively in the landcrab-infested areas 
beyond Nonsuch Island. At first | was dis- 
appointed that they did not nest on 
Nonsuch Island. They made good use of 
its ponds, often bringing their fledglings 
over to bathe and roost there as soon as 
they could fly. Then in 1985 | discovered 
that a small nesting colony had estab- 
lished in coastal buttonwood bushes on 
the isolated South Point of Nonsuch. As 
the native forest continued to grow, it 
gradually became more favourable for 
them. After a quarter-century, the palmet- 
tos, olivewoods and cedars were at last 
attaining maturity and beginning to self- 
seed. Everything was knitting together. 
My elation could hardly be contained 
when in 1987 | found night herons 
nesting throughout the island’s forest, 
just as they must have done in precolonial time. 
They continued to feed almost entirely on land- 
crabs, reducing the Nonsuch population to man- 
ageable levels again and doing such an effective 
job on the golf courses on Bermuda’s mainland 
that the managers were soon able to stop the use 
of poison baits for crab control. 
Although the project suffered a setback in 1988 as 
a result of illegal harvesting of most of the breed- 
ing stock, my discovery of more than 300 addi- 
tional juveniles that had been produced outside 
the reserve gives hope that the species will 
establish successfully. 
As the project has matured, the island has be- 
come ever more diverse and interesting and its 
value as an aid in teaching about Bermuda’s 
heritage has increased. By confining visitors to a 
system of grassy trailways and making use of 
blinds, it is possible to show all of Bermuda’s 
terrestrial habitats in microcosm without disturbing 
the wildlife. 
The Living Museum continues to provide new in- 
sights, too. On September 25, 1987, Bermuda ex- 
perienced its first hurricane in 25 years and the 
most severe winds and sea flooding in almost a 
century. In the 35 years since the loss of the 
native Bermuda cedars, an entirely new flora had 
developed on the main island through deliberate 
and natural reforestation. It was characterized by 
fast-growing and tall tree species, more than 95 
percent of them non-native. This forest had never 
been tested by a major hurricane and the result, 
when it finally happened, was unmitigated 
disaster. 
In less than three hours, Hurricane Emily de- 
stroyed more than 30 percent of the trees, mainly 
by uprooting and breakage. Ornamental parks and 
gardens dominated by the tall-growing casuarinas 
were especially hard hit, with 70 percent blow- 
down in some areas. Utility wires were devastated, 
leaving most of the island without electricity for two 
weeks. The vulnerability of this new non-native 
forest to wind damage had been predicted and 
forewarned against for several years, as local con- 
servationists tried to encourage residents to make 
more use of native species in their gardens. But 
the warnings went unheeded until Emily. It only 
needed the benefit of a field trip to Nonsuch after 
that to put the point over forcefully, because its 
smaller-statured native forest survived virtually un- 
scathed. The demand for native tree species for 
planting gardens and roadsides has since soared. 
Emily began to provide some real character to the 
maturing forest by enhancing the wind-sheared 
and gnarled appearance of the trees, and by partly 
uprooting some palmettos, which will now record a 
pronounced bend in their trunks as they continue 
to grow. And there was a further lesson. | had 
often pondered how the cahows could have exca- 
Stephen 
S. 
Bainbridge 
David Wingate and orphaned cahow chick, 1973. 
vated their burrows into the root-matted soil under 
Bermuda’s precolonial forest, because the soil on 
Nonsuch had remained hard-packed despite the 
shallow burrowing efforts of the landcrabs. But in a 
few moments of extreme violence, Emily had 
slightly uprooted a number of trees, lifting the root 
mats to create ready-made underground cavities 
ideal as nesting places. 
This brings me back full circle to the cahow itself, 
that incredible symbol of survival and hope, which 
inspired the Living Museum project in the first 
place. Out on the offshore islets, the cahows’ 
fortunes had begun to turn around. This resulted in 
part from the baffler-induced increase in productiv- 
ity of the early 1960s which was beginning to be 
reflected eight to ten years later, as those extra 
chicks returned to breed. The battle to ban the use 
of DDT in the U. S. and Canada had finally been 
won and the breeding success of the affected 
species was gradually beginning to improve. 
In the eighties the cahows experienced a further 
surge of population increase. By 1987, the popula- 
tion had doubled to 42 pairs. It was even resilient 
enough by then to absorb the loss of five sub-adult 
birds, killed by a vagrant snowy owl from the 
Arctic. 
Throughout the sixties and seventies | would often 
walk down to the South Point on Nonsuch Island 
at the end of a hard day’s work, hoping just once 
to be lucky enough to see or hear a cahow from 
there, without having to take a boat to the smaller 
islets. It finally happened one stormy night about 
1982 and | have never been disappointed since. 
Indeed, | can now on occasion sit in comfort on 
the porch of the Nonsuch warden’s residence and 
listen to the eerie calls of cahows out over the bay. 
| still don’t know whether my dream of seeing them 
colonize under the island’s restored native forest 
will be realized in my lifetime, but | might have 
good reason for cautious optimism — were it not 
for what is happening to the rest of my homeland 
on the other side of the harbour. 
Editor's note: Endangered species require human 
champions if their survival is to be assured. If you 
would like to help fund an endowment to guaran- 
tee the cahow’s future, send contributions to: 
Cahow Account, Bermuda Audubon Society, 
P. O. Box HM 1328, Hamilton, Bermuda 
