118 LEARNING 
Shifting 
One man, intentionally acting as an agent of Gaia, 
singleshoveledly attempts to reduce the rate of 
cattle-driven erosion in a desert stream system. 
He learns a lot, and so will you. —JB 
Shifting 
Paul Krapfel 
1989; 185 pp. 
$10 postpaid from: 
Paul Krapfel, P. O. Box 1 
Walla Walla, WA 99362 
WEA 
Shifting 
Animals will approach a sitting 
me closer than | can approach a sitting animal. 
e 
| stared across the arroyo at the runoff which was 
cascading down the opposite bank. The entire 
bank was washing away but the areas held 
together by grass were eroding more slowly than 
the unprotected bare areas. This slower erosion 
turned the clumps of grass into high points which 
diverged the runoff around them. Many clumps 
Soft Paths 
How to enjoy the wilderness without harming it. 
We know, don't we? “Take only pictures, leave 
only footprints.” Not that simple, folks. It depends 
on where you are, geography, weather, popularity 
of the area, and lots of other factors maybe you 
didn't really know that much about. This easily 
read and remembered book discusses the prob- 
lems, then the attitudes and techniques essential 
for the preservation of wilderness attributes 
despite our potentially destructive presence. This 
is served up in a way that is intended to induce 
stewardship rather than guilt, just what you'd 
expect from the publisher, National Outdoor 
Leadership School (see p. 114). And all this time | 
thought | was doing O.K. (cringe). —JB 
Soft Paths, Bruce Hampton 
and David Cole; 1988; 173 pp. 
$10.95 ($11.95 postpaid) 
from: The National Out- 
door Leadership School 
P. O. Box AA 
Lander, WY 82520 
(307) 332-6973 
WEA 
e 
SANITATION 
Since there is so little organic matter to provide 
sustenance for the microorganisms that eventually 
break down fecal material, sanitation in the desert 
presents a problem. Body waste won’t decompose 
in this predominantly inorganic, often sandy soil, 
but instead dissipates, filtering through the ground 
as it follows natural drainages. In this respect, 
distance from water may be more critical than 
whether you bury your feces or deposit them at 
the surface. 
e 
Because the sun’s heat penetrates desert soils, 
eventually washed down the slope and disap- 
peared in the brown flood below. Yet for as long 
as each clump of grass remained, it created a 
divergence which reduced the energy of the 
cascade. Even if the grass washed away, it had 
reduced erosion during the time it stood. If those 
plants had not been growing on the side of the 
arroyo, the erosion would have been worse. 
| am like the grass, | thought. My efforts prevent 
the erosion from being worse. Even if the flood 
washes my efforts away, my resistance will have 
absorbed some of the flood’s energy and lessened 
the erosion that would have otherwise happened. 
Whether my efforts are enough to “win” depends 
upon the force | oppose. If the force is small 
enough, | shall “win.” If it is large enough, | “lose.” 
To be proud of “winning” is to be proud of encoun- 
tering a force smaller than myself. | should forget 
about “winning” and, like the grass, simply resist 
the erosion. 
| returned to my work. Twenty minutes later, the 
pounding rain subsided. So accustomed to that 
pounding had | become that its slackening 
sounded like stillness even though the waterfalls 
still shook the bedrock. 
“Natural toilet paper” is an effective solution to 
one of the most common causes of wilderness 
trash. It’s more comfortable than you might 
imagine. From left: stone, seaweed, moss, snow. 
shallow catholes are usually more appropriate 
than surface deposition. Visual contact by other 
visitors is kept to a minimum, and high tempera- 
tures near the soil surface (as high as 150 de- 
grees Fahrenheit) destroy pathogens in a rela- 
tively short time. Not all burial methods work in the 
desert, however. Here, latrines are even less ac- 
ceptable than in temperate climates, for burial 
deeper than a few inches eliminates the sterilizing 
effect of the sun’s heat. The number of microor- 
ganisms is so low, and aeration is so reduced 
because of the compact nature of many desert 
soils, that deep, concentrated burial only pre- 
serves solid waste. 
e 
River users can camp on beaches, sandbars, or 
nonvegetated sites — somewhere below the high 
waterline. When the river floods, footprints wash 
away, and the site appears “new” to the next user. 
If you practice this floodplain camping, your impact 
will always be minimal. 
e 
If clear plastic is difficult to see in winter, toilet 
paper is even harder. Consequently, some winter 
visitors take only paper of a darker contrasting 
color. Regardless of color, however, toilet paper is 
always difficult to burn in snow. Even when the 
surrounding snow is cold and dry, the snow soon 
melts, soaking the edges of the paper and leaving 
some unburned pieces. The easiest solution is to 
avoid using toilet paper during winter. Snow — 
compressed and formed into a compact, oblong 
shape — provides a sanitary and surprisingly com- 
fortable alternative. Best of all, when the snow 
melts, no evidence remains. 
Ce Sa 
ee 
Eyewitness Books 
Imagine yourself in Darwin's cabin on the Beagle 
surrounded by a fascinating array of specimens all 
neatly laid out and begging for further examina- 
tion. Eyewitness books are infused with the same 
kind of wonderment that a naturalist’s study might 
invoke. These beautiful books (21 in the series so 
far) visually convey many of the marvels of nature 
using narrative and captions to supplement the 
stunning photographs. Each two page spread 
introduces a new aspect to the general topic and 
the books end with ways to appreciate, care for, 
and protect the subject discussed. 
Great books! A wonderful way to introduce nature 
to a child or budding-naturephile. 
— Susan Erkel Ryan & Susan Crutchfield 
[Suggested by Mary Law & Captain Walker] 
The reed bed 
{ 
Eyewitness Books 
Some titles: Bird; Butter- 
flies & Moths; Seashore; 
Plant & Flower; Pond & 
River; Rocks & Minerals; 
Tree; Shell; $13.95 
($15.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
(800) 733-3000 
WEA 
Backyard Safari 
Jack Schmidling and Marilyn Schenk show how 
they created a mini-prairie in their Illinois backyard. 
First the how-to part: build a fence so neighbors 
won't complain about your “unkempt” yard; plant 
native plants (milkweed and thistle — weeds to us 
— are manna in the urbanized desert to gold- 
finches and monarch butterfly larvae); burn the 
“prairie” in early spring so grass and flower seeds 
will germinate. Then the safari begins — a trip 
through a yearly cycle in the backyard prairie 
ecosystem. Here the wildlife show the payoff for 
converting your backyard from barbecue patio to 
wildlife sanctuary. From lacewing beetle to the 
rabbit that visits this postage-stamp paradise, 
the diversity of 
life in a small 
backyard is as- 
tounding, enter- 
taining, humbling 
— a good, do- 
able project for 
homeowners 
everywhere. 
—Corinne 
Cullen Hawkins 
Backyard Safari, Video (VHS); $32 postpaid 
Catalog free from: Jack Schmidling Productions 
4501 Moody, Chicago, IL 60630; (312) 685-1878 
