REE 
na See 
a 
Economic Renewal Program 
The Rocky Mountain Institute crew is justly famous 
for the depth of their investigations of energy and 
resource efficiency (p. 57). Their Economic 
Renewal Program integrates these (ongoing) 
studies, utilizing their conclusions as a basis for 
improving local economies. RMI works with the 
people involved, helping them to identify what they 
want and how best to achieve it through their own 
enterprise. Workbooks (guidebooks, really) detail 
successful, proven strategies and encouraging 
case histories. The RMI publications list offers a 
number of introductory booklets that will help you 
get things started. Actual programs are custom-fit 
to your needs after appropriate negotiations. 
Results have been encouraging. —JB 
Rocky Mountain Institute Economic Renewal 
Publications: ER86-28 Four Steps to Self- 
Reliance (6 pp.) $3; ER88-2 Facilitator's manual 
(8 pp.) $4; ER88-25 Financing Economic 
Renewal Projects (71 pp.) $20; ER88-39 Busi- 
ness Opportunities Casebook (52 pp.) $20; 
ER88-40 The Economic Renewal Program: A 
Colorado Innovation from Colorado Municipali- 
ties (6 pp.) $2; ER89-9 /ntroduction to the 
Economic Renewal Program (15 pp.) $3; ER89- 
19 Summary of the Economic Renewal Program 
(4 pp.) $2 (all postpaid); Information free, all 
from: RMI, 1739 Snowmass Creek Road, 
Snowmass, CO 81654-9900 
Institute for Local 
Self-Reliance 
ILSR specializes in urban community economic 
development that isn’t dependent on welfare 
handouts. Unlike many similar organizations, they 
develop clever technical solutions to problems — 
they've been particularly successful in materials 
recovery and other schemes to reduce waste. 
Their experience and thoroughly professional 
demeanor, together with a Washington DC 
location has enabled them to be influential in 
policy decisions. No room here to list all their 
accomplishments; it’s an impressive list. If your 
community is being pushed around by unfortunate 
economic circumstances, you should give these 
folks a call before giving up. —JB 
Institute For Local Self-Reliance 
Contributions tax-deductible; information free 
from: Institute for Local Self-Reliance 
2425 18th Street, NW, Washington, DC 20009 
(202) 232-4108 
e 
Advocate Alternatives to Incinerators 
Southern California — ILSR worked with Black, 
Latino, and White community organizations to halt 
a plan for six waste incineration plants in Los 
Angeles. With ILSR assistance, the Los Angeles 
groups then formed a working coalition among 
groups throughout southern California that suc- 
cessfully campaigned to have 15 additional mass 
burn plants cancelled between 1985 and 1988 in 
favor of recycling technologies. 
@ 
“Removing citizens and neighborhoods from a 
dependent relationship on government is a con- 
servative cause. But involving and empowering 
ordinary citizens in the decisions that affect their 
commonwealth is part of the classic liberal 
agenda. Thus, ILSR has remained important and 
respected regardless of the political and philo- 
sophical winds of the moment.” 
—Howard E. Quirk, Executive Officer 
Victoria Foundation 
Community Regeneration 
Network 
This organization is yet another good idea from the 
redoubtable Robert Rodale. The basic idea is to 
help individuals and organizations to improve their 
own communities by working together with the 
resources they already have. First step is member- 
ship in the Community Regeneration Network. That 
brings you Regeneration, an encouraging newslet- 
ter, plus access to the unique and powerful Rodale 
resource files, and membership database. The real 
work is done through a variety of inspiring commu- 
nity regeneration workshops led by Rodale’s expert 
facilitators. The word catalyst comes to mind. —JB 
Community Regene- 
Ss 
ration Network; $25/year 
(membership includes 6 
issues of Regeneration), 
publications list free from: 
Community 
Regeneration Network 
222 Main Street 
ce 
Emmaus, PA 18099-0086 
(215) 967-5171 
Timber brought immigrants to the area in the 
1880s, and when the tall white pines had all been 
cut, industrialists turned to the rich deposits of iron 
ore. 
. 
. 
. lon supported the region for two genera- 
tions. By the early 1980s several thousand people 
were employed by the mines in well paying jobs. 
But in 1986, the protracted boom went bust. The 
major employer, Reserve Mining, went bankrupt 
and 2,500 jobs were lost. 
What was left, after the exodus of those who went 
in search of employment elsewhere, was a tough, 
resilient, self-reliant core of “Rangers” who de- 
cided that they would do better than survive. They 
would make the Range an even better place to live. 
Thus, in 1986, Greta Wood, founder of Voyageur 
Vision, enlisted the aid of 91 volunteers from the 
communities of Ely, Babbitt, Tower, Sudan, 
Embarrass, and Winton, Minnesota, to find what 
potential lay in area home-based businesses. 
In conjunction with Babbitt/Embarrass Area Devel- 
opment Association (BEADA) and the Minnesota 
Project, a nonprofit technical assistance organiza- 
tion, Voyageurs developed an eight-page question- 
naire to which 1,500. households, 43 per-cent of 
those surveyed, responded. They found that 
people in the area were making everything from 
blueprints to canoes at home. 
More than 400 households were interested in 
making money through the sale of handwork and 
nearly 300 households wanted to earn money by 
providing a homebased service. 
Q: Our community engages in a lot of finger- 
pointing. Cultural, church and civic groups all 
blame each other for our problems: drugs, absen- 
tee landlords, rubble-strewn vacant lots. How can 
we ever get over this hump.? 
A: Community Regeneration workshop facilitators 
will help reintroduce community members to one 
another. Through the exercises and skills learned 
in Regeneration workshops, teachers and students, 
single parents and pastors, varied races and relig- 
ions, all work together to discover solutions and 
uncover their communities internal resources. 
We're available for both long- and short-term 
projects. Using our workshops and our consulting 
services, 
a community receives the broadest range 
of assets-oriented expertise available. We draw on 
a network of individuals from around the country 
who are tops in the fields of economic develop- 
ment, waste management, the environment, edu- 
cation and agriculture, to name a few. 
ECONOMICS 95 
BES 
aa Sa 
ee 
Working Assets 
Do you have an investment portfolio? Does it 
contain stock in nasty companies you'd rather not 
be associated with, much less help capitalize? 
Would you invest in socially responsible compa- 
nies if the rate of return was respectable? Many 
people seem to think that it might be nice to 
support worthy enterprises, but are afraid to stray 
from well-known names no matter how despicable. 
You don’t need to do that. Working Assets Money 
Fund is about as clean as you can get these days, 
and its rate of return has been respectable. 
They're the biggest “social-conscience” investment 
company. The Fund does not invest in companies 
with substantial military contracts, that build or 
operate nuclear power plants, that do business in 
South Africa, that have a record of environmental 
violations, or that have a poor record on employee 
discrimination or safety. Have at it! —JB 
Working Assets Money Fund 
230 California Street, San Francisco, CA 94111 
(800) 533-3863 
Period 
Effective 
Annual Yield 
Average 
Annual Rate 
Council on Economic 
Priorities 
In 1969, Alice Tepper Marlin compiled a list of 
companies that were not involved in supplying the 
Vietman war. Her fledgling organization has grown 
to today’s CEP, a respected and feared assessor 
of corporate social character. 
Their Shopping for a Better World (p.109) has 
had considerable effect, and will doubtless have 
increasing influence as it appears in classrooms. 
Their Research Reports (they come with mem- 
bership) are a good place to get the level-headed 
lowdown on corporate lowlife, and — huzzah! — 
good guys too. —JB 
Council on Economic 
ig 5.6.01 wr 
Priorities; $25/year 
: 
(membership includes 
monthly newsletter) 
from: CEP 
30 Irving Place 
New York, NY 10003 
(800) 822-6435 
fio 
Eco-labelling Symbols 
It’s Not Easy Being Green 
Many questions about green 
products remain unanswered. 
Who will distinguish between 
true environmental product im- 
provements and false ones? Is 
there any agreement about 
what “safe for the environ- 
ment” really means? Do stan- 
dards exist for assessing a 
product’s environmental impact? 
Who will verify manufacturers’ 
claims? Marketing Intelligence 
Service, for instance, doesn’t 
check up on company claims. If 
the company markets a product 
as green, Marketing Intelligence 
Service categorizes it as green. 
Canada's Environmental Choice 
Japan’s Eco-mark 
West Germany’s Blue Angel 
