62 SAFE HOUSES 
SEO SE SES 
DUERMO 
E WS ie Sane ka 
The Natural House Book 
No paranoia-inducing diatribes from this author, 
and no smug admonitions to strive for an impos- 
sible level of environmental correctness in your 
home. Instead, we get an encouraging look at the 
basic principles of design and materials choice 
that will help you make a naturally joyful and 
healthy home. The author makes it clear that the 
use of “natural materials” does not necessarily 
mean better health or reduced environmental 
impact — a point often missed. This book glows 
with wonderful examples (from all over the world) 
of things done imaginatively and well. There’s 
nothing to make you feel guilty or remiss, you are 
enticed into wanting to make your house better, 
and to do it in a way that fits your style. It isn’t all 
structure; for instance, the physiological effects of 
light, color, and space are enthusiastically stirred 
into the brew. There’s even a discussion of Feng- 
Shui — geomancy. Lots of good ideas. Lots of 
inspiration. Lots of reasons to buy the book — it’s 
the best I’ve seen on the subject. —JB 
The Natural House 
Book, David Pearson 
1989; 287 pp.; $17.95 
($20.95 postpaid) from: 
Simon & Schuster, Inc. 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
(201) 767-5937 2*WEA 
~ 
THE OUSE 
S| 
TURA 
7: 
‘ NA BOOK 
Aroma as part of design 
It is an interesting fact that when interior design or 
architectural magazines describe a home, colour, 
form, space, and texture are all frequently men- 
tioned — but smell hardly ever. It is as if this was 
of no consequence, or that all interiors are ex- 
pected to be odourless and sterile. But unfortu- 
nately many modern interiors have a decidedly 
unpleasant smell, which gives warning of an accu- 
mulation of pollutants, stale air, condensation, and 
cooking odours. The design of a home, in order to 
be complete, must embrace aroma, too. 
ey 
Daylight floods this airy Swedish living room. The 
light, reflective surfaces and bright splashes of 
colour enliven the atmosphere and lift the spirits. 
Bright sunlight and daylight produce an 
atmosphere of optimism, which is especially 
important in climates where there are too many 
grey cloudy days and depressingly long, dark 
winters. 
%WEA — Available from Whole Earth Access, see p. 2. 
SSE 
aa 
Healthy House Catalog 
This is where to find out where to get the materi- 
als, design services, hardware, and all the other 
knowledge and stuffs you need to build or rebuild 
your home in a way that will render it less threat- 
ening to your health. Like all good catalogs, this 
one helps you gain the knowledge necessary for 
wise choices; the first section is titled Understand- 
ing Indoor Pollution. Alas, it would have been 
impossible for the editors to check each of the 500 
entries for veracity and usefulness or even envi- 
ronmental merit (or lack thereof). That’s probably 
the government's job, and probably it won't get 
done. So it’s up to us. This catalog will help you 
get real about what’s available and what you can 
afford. A useful service, well executed. —JB 
Healthy House Catalog; 1990; 208 pp.; $19.95 
($22.95 postpaid) from: Environmental Health 
Watch and the Housing Resource Center 
4115 Bridge Avenue, Cleveland, OH 44113 
(800) 222-9348 
Formaldehyde monitoring 
made simple 
* *& PF-1 passive detector excellent 
for screening homes, offices, modular 
buildings, hospitals, schools, etc. 
ayy 
© Gives time-weighted aver- 
# 
age over 7-day sampling 
period—avoids misleading 
spot measurements. 
e Able to detect levels as 
low as 0.01 ppm over full 
sampling period. 
e Field proven—more than 
300,000 measurements 
made to date. 
© Easily installed by user— 
no need for you to get 
involved. 
@ Low cost—kit includes 
two monitors, analysis 
and report. 
AIR RA QUALITY RESEARCH 
901 Grayson Street, Berkeley, CA 94710 
(415) 644-2097 
But Not a Drop to Drink! 
| first picked up this book to get information re- 
garding my own home water situation. | soon 
discovered this book is much more than a good 
information guide for personal water systems. 
Coffel’s comprehensive and painstaking research 
offers a broad view of the water situation for the 
whole country. He focuses instead on the job of 
cleaning up the mess, beginning with one’s own 
water. 
Where does your water come from? What is the 
watershed that supplies it? What uses has the 
watershed been put to? These questions, and 
more, will guide your search in identifying the 
contaminants in your water, and what you can do 
about removing them. 
The author completes his survey of water cleanup 
with a look at bottled waters, the pros and cons of 
various water-purification systems, as well as 
ideas and examples of successful community-wide 
‘ cleanups and alternative ways of treating city 
waste water. Particularly intriguing is the descrip- 
tion of “circular” water management which allows 
sewage to break down naturally and be filtered by 
the soil as water drains back down into the aquifer. 
Coffel has four Resource appendices to assist you 
in locating water information, toxic waste sites, 
and quality water in your area. —Richard Ditzler 
e 
People buy bottled water primarily to protect their 
health. Unfortunately, many of the same contami- 
nants found in drinking water also show up in 
SS 
Bau-Biologie™ 
In a typically German manner, the Bau-Biologie 
folks analyze the problems of our built environ- 
ment, and then present a system as a guide for 
doing better. To some, their suggestions will seem 
extreme; for instance, are you really going to worry 
about radioactivity in wallboard? Should you? 
What can be done about it? What do you use in- 
stead? How should you think about such things? 
Bau-Biologie (rough translation: building biology, 
but it’s more comprehensive than that) has been 
active in Germany for more than 20 years. Now 
they're here, with seminars and correspondence 
courses. They’re a tad too New Age for some 
tastes; and just what’s needed for others’ — that 
seems to be their reputation in Europe, too. If 
you're unfamiliar with healthy building concepts, 
you may find their courses save you a lot of 
snooping and sifting. —JB 
Bau-Biologie; Information & 
raseuone 
book list free 
BAU 
. 
P 
7 
BIOLOGIE 
Bau-Biologie Correspon- 
Saat 
dence Course; $750 (course 
length 1 year approx.) 
Course consists of 22 course 
packs (equivalent to 800 pages) 
Both from: 
International Institute for Bau-Biologie and 
Ecolgy, P.O. Box 387, Clearwater, FL 34615 
(813) 461-4371 
Some of the Topics Covered in This Course: 
* Environmental situation 
* Bau-Biologie and building culture 
* Ecology and building site 
* Location and geo-biology 
* Climate in residential areas 
* Biologically-sound building materials 
* Construction and building methods 
* Heating and thermal insulation 
* Furnishing and interior design 
* Architectural acoustics and noise control 
* Light and illumination/electro-climate 
* Color and coloring products 
* Mental/emotional and physiological aspects of 
living 
* Rural habitation and town building 
* House inspection 
bottled water. Heavy metals, solvents, trihalo- 
methanes, pesticides, and even traces of radioac- 
tive materials have been found. So switching to 
bottled water can offer little more than a change of 
poisons, if caution isn’t used. 
e 
The plastic containers that hold many bulk prod- 
ucts can give water a “plastic taste.” Those made 
of polyethylene, the cloudy plastic used in gallon 
milk jugs, are worst, because the material de- 
grades more quickly than other plastics. As it 
breaks down, some of its components are ab- 
sorbed into the water. 
But Not a Drop to Drink 
(The Lifesaving Guide to 
Good Water), Steve Coffel 
1989; 323 pp.; $19.95 
($21.95 postpaid) from: 
Macmillan and Co. 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
(800) 257-8247 %*WEA 
BUT NOT 
ABROP TO 
THELIFESAVING GUUDETO 
QOD INTER 
| STEVE COFFEL 
Shee 
Us eee 
