ENERGY EFFICIENCY 57 
Rocky Mountain Institute 
I'll eliminate the middleman and let these folks 
introduce themselves: 
“Rocky Mountain Institute is a nonprofit research 
and educational foundation with a vision across 
boundaries. 
“Seeking ideas which transcend ideology, and 
harnessing the problem-solving power of free- 
market economics, our goal is to foster the 
efficient and sustainable use of resources as a 
path to global security. 
“Rocky Mountain Institute believes that people can 
solve complex problems through collective action 
and their own common sense, and that under- 
standing interconnections 
between resource issues can 
often solve many problems at 
once. 
“We focus our work in five 
areas — Agriculture, Eco- 
nomic Renewal, Energy, Se- 
curity, and Water — and 
carry on international out- 
reach and technical-ex- 
change programs.” 
It all started when Amory 
Lovins stirred up the Big 
Power folks in 1976 with a 
paper called The Road Not 
Taken, and then a 1977 book 
called Soft Energy Paths. His 
principal argument was, and 
still is, that energy conserva- 
tion makes a lot more sense 
than increasing energy production. He proposed a 
strategy of “plugging the leaks” by increasing the 
efficiency of energy-using hardware. He called the 
saved energy “negawatts.” Necessary power 
would be derived from renewable sources, which 
eventually would replace fossil-fueled and nuclear 
power plants. The advantages are many: oil 
imports could be eliminated, as could offshore and 
Alaska Wildlife Refuge drilling; nuclear proliferation 
would be stopped; acid rain and greenhouse 
gases greatly reduced. Billions less dollars would 
be directed to utility bills and pollution cleanup, 
freeing it for economically beneficial uses. With 
less dependence on imported energy and huge, 
centralized power plants, national security would 
be enhanced. There’s more; the list is long. 
Of course, such talk invited vigorous attack. But 
Amory’s arguments were backed by numbers — 
the same numbers and analytical methods used 
by his detractors who had not been paying 
attention to changes in technology, economics, 
and public environmental concern. Moreover, 
Amory did not assault the opposition as an enemy 
to be beaten; he regarded them as unenlightened 
(and occasionally stupid), in need of education. In 
the confrontational ’70s, this uncommonly busi- 
nesslike stance, aided by a dynamic speaking 
style, helped him reach the influential people who 
most needed to understand his message. 
Obviously this was more than one person could 
handle. In 1982, Amory and his wife, Hunter, 
founded the Rocky Mountain Institute and com- 
menced work on their home/headquarters, itself a 
demonstration of energy efficiency. A crew of 
researchers and volunteers assembled to advance 
the work on many fronts. They have been re- 
markably successful. RMI advises major power 
companies, assorted corporations, managers of 
cities large and small, and the federal government 
at the highest levels, including the military. Amory 
regularly consults with foreign governments — true 
citizen diplomacy — and has been actively 
working with the Russians to reduce international 
political tensions as well as their internal problems 
with energy, the environment, and economics. 
Institute Director Hunter Lovins, Amory, and many 
of the researchers spend a lot of time on the road 
giving lectures and workshops all over the world. 
At home, the RMI folks keep busy. Their publica- 
tions list fills three typewritten pages (which you 
can send for — see below). At any given moment, 
several books and papers are in the works, money 
is being raised, new projects are being planned, 
dignitaries are being entertained, friends greeted, 
phone questions answered. Daily visitors throng 
the building, adding to the quiet tumult as they 
take the self-guided tour. Yet despite the urgency 
and seriousness, a good spirit is in evidence. 
There is music and laughter as well as the sound 
of computers humming. When the sun hits its solar 
panel, a fan above the garden begins to flup-flup- 
flup as it chews the banana leaf that has once 
again grown into its path overnight. A rather odd 
dog, Nanug the Beastoid, wanders about. Even a 
visitor can feel the rightness of all this — that it’s a 
good way to do things. 
And so it is. RMI is an inspiring example of good 
scholarship, tough discipline, and high spirits (and 
of course talented people) making a real differ- 
ence. In less than ten years, this modest group 
has become the world’s most effective force 
encouraging the intelligent use of our resources. 
They're working for all of us. Make use of what 
they've learned, and support ‘em when you can. 
—JB 
Fun Energy Facts To Know 
And Tell At Cocktail Parties 
These quickies are also stunning at town meet- 
ings, for torturing parents who have missed the 
message, and for impressing anachronistic 
teachers. If challenged, you can defend yourself 
with hard numbers from other RMI offerings. 
Reform the heathen! —JB 
2 Just lighting (and, in the process, heating) 
American food stores, recooling the people inside, 
and — lest we forget — cooling the food keeps 
about 28 huge power plants busy full-time. The 
cost of all that electricity shows up on your food bill 
as part of the high cost of food that doesn’t get 
back to the farmer. 
7 Replacing all U.S. light vehicles with 60-mpg 
models would save over five million barrels of oil 
per day, which is more than we import. 
9 About 80 to 90 percent of the money you spend 
for energy leaves your local economy. In a typical 
town, that amounts to approximately 10 percent of 
the local payroll each year. 
30 Nuclear power presently delivers about half as 
much of the nation’s energy as wood. Wood, by 
the way, has never been a significantly subsidized 
energy source. 
RMI Publications List 
The impressive list of RMI publications includes 
books, reports, reprints of articles by and about 
RMI, plus T-shirts and the like. It’s free. —JB 
Energy Casebook 
This is what you need to convince the powers- 
that-be, or perhaps even yourself, that this stuff 
works. It’s an inspiring collection of real-live 
implementation of RMI strategies and the conse- 
quent results. (The Publications list offers a 
Business Opportunities Casebook too). —JB 
Competitek 
This is a professional-level service intended to 
serve corporate, institutional and government 
planners requiring the latest information on elec- 
trical efficiency strategy and equipment. It’s offer- 
ed by subscription at three levels of involvement 
— $9000 to $24,000. There are now more than 
100 subscribers in 20 countries. Perhaps your 
town or company could use some advice? —JB 
RMI headquarters building is home to founders 
Amory and Hunter Lovins, office for 17 researchers, 
and controlled-climate space for a year-round, semi- 
tropical garden (complete with iguana). The 4000 sq. 
ft. structure consumes only 10% of the electricity 
and 50% of the water expected for a building of its 
size and use. Heat, hot water, and clothes-drying is 
solar. Electricity soon will be too. Energy savings 
alone will pay for the entire “eco-palace” in 40 years 
or less. (See RMI publications list for Visitor’s Guide 
and hardware sourcelist.) 
Rocky Mountain Institute; $10/year (includes 
quarterly newsletter) 
Visitor’s Guide (Descriptive/Tour Guide plus a 
where-to-get-it list of technologies); 1988; 22 pp. 
$5 postpaid 
RMI Publications List; free 
Fun Energy Facts to Know and Tell at Cock- 
tail Parties, Amory Lovins & John Klusmire; 
1986; 3 pp.; $2 postpaid 
Energy Casebook, William D. Browning & 
L. Hunter Lovins; 1989; 64 pp.; $20 postpaid 
Competitek; for more information contact Ted 
Flanigan at RMI (303) 927-3851 
All from: 
Rocky Mountain Institute 
1739 Snowmass Creek Road 
Snowmass, CO 81654-9199 
RMI Videos 
There are two nifty RMI videos available. Lovins 
on the Soft Path is a dramatic introduction to the 
Lovins’ work, featuring the irrefutable logic and 
wicked wit of both Hunter and Amory. When | used 
this in a college environmental studies class, many 
students asked to take the tape home for another 
look. For teachers not yet familiar with the subject, 
a study guide is available from RMI’s publications 
list. Convincing and deadly. 
The other film is from CBS-TV 60 Minutes: A Visit 
With Hunter and Amory Lovins. It’s a bit better 
than what you'd expect from mainline tubies. —JB 
Lovins on the Soft Path 
$75 Rent; $295 Purchase VHS, $650 16mm 
A Visit with Hunter & Amory Lovins 
$30 Rent; $95 Purchase 
Both films from: Bullfrog Films, Oley, PA 19547 
(800) 543-3764. (Bullfrog Films review p. 119.) 
