Eee 
ed ene er 
The Granite Garden 
Very much in the tradition of Jane Jacobs, lan 
McHarg, and Christopher Alexander, this author 
examines the role of nature in cities. The critique 
here is easy pickings, because cities, whether 
severely planned or done laissez faire, almost 
always end up wrong. The value of this book is in 
its balance between problems and solutions. Spirn 
quickly makes it apparent that healthy, workable 
answers to the dilemma of urban designs are not 
scarce commodities — techniques abound. What 
is lacking is economic and political will, and 
enough of a sense of tradition to allow for perse- 
verance. —Richard Nilsen 
The Granite Garden 
Anne Whiston Spirn; 1984 
334 pp.; $15.95 ($19.45 
postpaid) from: Basic 
Books, Route 3 Box 20B 
Downsville Pike 
Hagerstown, MD 21740 
(800) 638-3030 WEA 
The Riverway, Boston, ca 1892, showing graded 
embankments ready for planting. To the right, a 
mound separates the park from a recently 
installed trolley line. (Below) Approximately thirty 
years after construction, having achieved a wholly 
“natural” appearance, the adjacent trolley line 
now hidden behind mound and plants. Project 
was primarily for flood control. 
Towns of our cities are rapidly diminishing. Some 
that haven’t fallen under the bulldozer of earlier 
“renewal” programs are being rediscovered and 
gradually rejuvenated. The real trick is, first, to 
make the citadel of power in every large or small 
community aware of the potential of the useful 
areas that remain, and, second, to extract a 
commitment to rejuvenation through “process,” not 
“development” — through a process that includes 
participation of a spectrum of willing “small 
redoers,” from individuals to small developers, 
instead of development only by project develop- 
ers, and that also includes innovative strategies 
which involve more than physical rebuilding. That, 
in fact, is the consistent lesson of the string of 
revitalization stories just highlighted, starting with 
Ithaca. All these stories and the earlier ones of 
Savannah, the South Bronx, Cincinnati, Pittsburgh 
and Toronto underscore the appropriateness and 
success of the genuine rebirth process in contrast 
to misleading redevelopment projects. 
BUILDING COMMUNITY 79 
Bioshelters, Ocean Arks, 
City Farming 
“If the discoveries of the New Alchemy Institute 
are so important, why aren't you rich?” a Famous 
Person once asked John Todd, cofounder of the 
Institute. Good question. The answer is that ideas 
not obviously mainstream take a while to be 
accepted, no matter how wondertul. Convincing 
demonstrations don’t necessarily help either; note 
that there have been practical solar homes for 
decades, but no solar building boom until builders, 
buyers, bankers and educators had sufficient 
incentive. Recent work, imaginatively reported, got 
things started. 
The New Alchemy Institute’s experiments (see p. 
83) in aquaculture, bioshelters, small-scale 
farming and innovative architecture have proven 
successful, but so far have not ignited a massive 
thrust towards an ecologically sound, sustainable 
economy. Perhaps this has been because citizens 
haven't been able to see how these concepts 
might apply to their lives. This book elucidates an 
exciting collection of ideas that are a natural 
extension of New Alchemy thought — things that 
are now possible. It’s a positive, hopeful view of 
what we can, and probably must, do soon. —JB 
t 
There is a science to working with existing forms 
and structures. It is comprised of a peculiar mix- 
ture of theory, research, and practicality — a 
science of “found objects.” It does not attempt to 
build from scratch, but takes what exists and 
works to transform it to something useful or rele- 
vant. The French anthropologist Claude Levi- 
Strauss has described it as bricolage. Practitioners 
are bricoleurs, which translates rather clumsily as 
“enlightened tinkerers with what is at hand.” In an 
Bioshelters, Ocean 
Arks, City Farming 
(Ecology as the Basis 
of Design), Nancy 
Jack Todd & John 
Todd; 1984; 210 pp. 
$10.95 ($13.95 post- 
paid) from: Sierra 
Club Books, 730 Polk 
Street, San Francisco 
CA 94109; (415) 
923-5500 **WEA 
Warehouse Farm Company, 
Inner City or Suburban. 3rd 
floor: lettuces; 2nd floor: 
hydroponic peas, tomatoes, 
and cucumber; 1st floor: 
chickens, eggs and trout, 
catfish culture; basement: 
mushrooms and compost. 
age of increasing scarcity, such a person is poten- 
tially a kind of hero, someone who can see with 
different eyes and utilize available resources. A 
lack or problem is not seen only as a burden, but 
an opportunity. A bricoleur can see what was, is, 
and can be as splendid continuum — one that 
must come full circle. Whereas most developers 
destroy before rebuilding, restorationists rebuild to 
recapture former glories, and designers prefer a 
clean slate, the bricoleur works from the assump- 
tion that the true potential of a house, a block, a 
whole town, or any other existing area, has 
scarcely been tapped. 
Creating Successful 
Communities 
Can inevitable growth be controlled? A quick look 
around any suburban area will convince you that 
there’s no hope. Yet these authors say there is, 
and back their optimistic answer with a selection of 
effective strategies, many of which have been 
proven to work. The examples are presented from 
an insider's view, with enough detail to get you 
started taking on the black-hat locals messing up 
your space. The book is actually an action manual 
— particularly useful to folks whose annoyance 
has matured into outrage. For those that don't 
quite know what to do about it and are afraid of 
making naive mistakes, it’s warpaint. —JB 
a a 
Se 
e 
Lincoln Center: Urban Devitalizer 
| live near Lincoln Center, one of the earliest 
separatist centers, a trend-setter for marbleized 
entertainment centers that look more like giant 
mausolea than seats of culture. Lincoln Center is a 
self-contained center without streets, without any 
connection to its surrounding urban fabric, without 
anything to relate to its neighbors. It sits alone in 
isolated glory and could just as well be in the 
Mojave Desert. 
Civic, cultural or shopping centers like this are 
alien schemes imposed on the texture of a 
singular place. They don’t mend torn pieces of 
urban fabric. They destroy what exists. They 
replace. They are imbued with revitalization 
attributes they don’t deserve. Their promoters use 
them to promise what can’t be delivered. When 
the promise does not follow construction, few care 
enough to look back to recognize the mistaken 
assessment. 
Creating Successful 
Communities 
Michael A. Mantell 
Stephen F. Harper & 
Luther Propst 
1990; 230 pp. 
$24.95 ($26.95 postpaid) 
from: Island Press 
Box 7, Covelo, 
CA 95428 
(800) 828-1302 **WEA 
t ) 
Growth Patterns 
For many years, the Nantucket community had 
been trying to concentrate growth in existing 
village centers, away from open moors and 
beaches. However, every year more than 500 lots 
are subdivided on the island, and land prices jump 
about 20 percent. Off-island second-home owners 
buy about two-thirds of the real estate on the 
island. 
Measures Taken 
Other private and nonprofit efforts on the island, 
although without a direct role in the land bank, 
have preserved more than a third of the island 
over the past 25 years. The local land trust, the 
Nantucket Conservation Foundation, contributes 
enormously to preservation successes, and 
continues to demonstrate strong support. Re- 
cently, a 900-acre tract, equaling the acreage of all 
the lands acquired by the land bank, was donated 
to the Massachusetts Audubon Society in a will. 
The land bank program complements these 
private initiatives, and continued coordination with 
such efforts is important. 
See Also... 
Page 49, for more on urban climate control. 
