[Shae 
se oy SER le ee haa 
A 
Cadillac Desert 
A book about dams and canals might seem rather 
tame fare, even if the water that is controlled 
makes life in the western desert third of America 
possible. Marc Reisner has taken seven years of 
exhaustive research and a passionate environ- 
mentalist perspective and has written a popular 
history of western water projects that reads like 
good adventure fiction. He has interviewed 
virtually all of the players still living, including the 
significant coup of gaining access to former 
Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner Floyd 
Dominy’s recollections and personal files. Each 
chapter easily stands alone, so if you want just the 
story of how Los Angeles got its water from the 
Owens Valley, or why the Teton Dam collapsed, 
it's easy to get. The last time a book brought me 
this close to the workings of unbridled bureaucra- 
cies, political power and money was reading 
Robert Caro’s biography of Robert Moses, The 
Power Broker. The immense size of these water 
projects keeps Reisner hustling for superlatives, 
but in the end the wild west meets the era of limits, 
even if it is happening a drop at a time. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Cadillac Desert (The 
American West and its 
Disappearing Water) 
Marc Reisner; 1986; 
582 pp.; $9.95 ($11.95 
postpaid) from: Penguin 
USA,120 Woodbine St. 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621 
(800) 526-0275 ** WEA 
] 
hee 
Z 
See 
MUNN 
iy: 
re 
alah ue 
‘i 
George Gillette, chairman of the Ft. Berthold 
Indian Tribe Business Council, weeps as he 
watches Secretary of the Interior J.A. Krug sign a 
contract whereby the tribe sells 155,000 acres of 
its reservation’s best land in North Dakota to the 
government for the Garrison Dam and Reservoir 
project on May 20, 1948. 
This whole hydrologic ballet, this acrobatic rise 
and fall of megatonnages of water performed on a 
stage twice the length of Pennsylvania, is orches- 
trated by a silent choreographer in the Water 
Resources building in Sacramento: a Univac 
Series 904 computer punched and fed floppy disks 
by a team of programmers. At the south end of the 
valley, the aqueduct arrives at its moment of truth. 
The Sierra escarpment curves westward and the 
Coast Range bends eastward and they mate, 
producing a bastard offspring called the Trans- 
verse, or Tehachapi, Range. The Tehachapis 
stand between the water and Los Angeles, which 
sits in the ultramontane basin beyond. 
The water is carried across the Tehachapis in five 
separate stages. The final, cyclopean one, which 
occurs at the A. D. Edmonston Pumping Plant, 
raises the water 1,926 feet — the Eiffel Tower 
atop the Empire State — in a single lift. To some 
engineers, the Edmonston pumps are the ultimate 
triumph, the most splendid snub nature has ever 
received: a sizable river of water running uphill. At 
their peak capacity, if it is ever reached, the 
Edmonston pumps will require six billion kilowatt- 
hours of electricity every year, the output of an 
eleven-hundred-megawatt power plant. Moving 
water in California requires more electrical energy 
than is used by several states. 
WATER 23 
Ground Water 
and the Rural 
Homeowner 
City dwellers moving to 
the country make new 
acquaintances, and one 
of the first will be their 
well. Altho trial and error 
Septuc system 
ahs 
ae zone 
~ (of 
{ 
0 f “ 
i! 
“ 
<3 
2 
M 
“” 
pee 
J fc Water table 
= 
Zz 
a, 
pees 
oh 
SER 
Another reason that wells 
“go dry” is the lowering of 
the water table by in- 
creased pumpage in the 
immediate area. Housing 
developments with small 
lots and individual wells 
have been built in many 
rural areas. If the aquifer 
Unsaturated 
oepression 
will educate a new well 
owner, this little pamphlet 
can assist the learning curve. It discloses first 
principles of water movement, aquifers and wells. 
Should any of these matters be in your future this 
primer will introduce the basics. A worthwhile 
bibliography of more advanced reading is also 
included. 
—Dick Fugett 
Ground Water and the Rural 
Homeowner, Roger M. Waller 
1988; 37 pp.; free from: U.S. 
Geological Survey, Federal 
Center, Box 25425, Denver 
CO 80225; (303) 236-7476 
Overtapped Oasis 
For all who read Marc Reisner’s earlier book on 
western water history, Cadillac Desert, and won- 
dered what now, Reisner has written Overtapped 
Oasis. Cadillac Desert left us with a bleak portrait 
of the results of this century’s manhandling of 
water: dams filling with silt, dwindling underground 
aquifers, and fields crusted over with salt. Now 
Reisner holds out some hope for water-hungry 
westerners’ continued survival and growth — 
efficiency and water marketing. 
Farmers use 80 to 90 percent of water in the 
western states, but not all of that water is used 
well. If farmers changed their inefficient ways, 
enough water could be freed up to slake the thirsts 
of the millions of expected new and immigrant 
Californians, for example. But thanks to govern- 
ment subsidies farmers often profit by using as 
much water as they can get. Reisner teams up 
with water law specialist Sarah Bates and exam- 
ines how federal and state laws support this kind 
of overuse and what changes are needed to 
promote conservation instead. The solution they 
propose sounds bizarre — changing water laws to 
allow more farmers to profit from saving and 
selling excess water. Can a little unfettered 
capitalism really rescue us from our impending 
environmental crisis? Reisner and Bates make a 
strong case for it. —Mary James 
Overtapped Oasis (Reform 
or Revolution for Western 
Water), Marc Reisner & 
Sarah Bates; 1989; 208 pp. 
$17.95 ($19.95 postpaid) 
from: Island Press, Star 
Route 1, Box 38, Covelo 
CA 95428; (800) 828-1302 WE 
THE REALM OF THE POSSIBLE 
We focus on agricultural water efficiency simply 
because irrigation accounts for 80 to 90 percent of 
consumptive use in the West. Let no one doubt 
that we strongly support urban water conservation 
programs, however. According to some experts, 
simply metering the city of Denver could obviate 
the need for the $800 million-plus Two Forks Dam; 
inclining block rates would result in even greater 
savings. In semiarid and arid regions, we do not 
see how unmetered homes or flat water rates (as 
they exist in Fresno, where homeowners pay a 
fixed monthly fee whether they use 40 or 40,000 
gallons per day) can be justified any longer. 
is low yielding so that 
pumping creates a large drawdown, a cone of 
depression will develop around each well. Thus, 
several domestic wells close together can create a 
steady lowering of the water table if pumpage 
exceeds the natural recharge to the system 
(unless the withdrawn water is returned to the 
aquifer through septic systems). A third major 
reason that rural wells “go dry” is the installation of 
larger capacity wells for municipal, industrial, or 
agricultural purposes adjacent to residential areas. 
The increased withdrawals may cause large wide- 
spread cones of depression that intersect one 
another and cause general water-level declines 
that affect nearby domestic wells. 
The Poisoned Well 
The flyleaf says “If legal advice or other expert 
assistance is required, the services of a competent 
professional person should be sought.” Keep that 
boilerplate warning in mind while reading this 
guidebook; “if you find this, you should do this” is 
the editorial style throughout. Summary chapters 
on groundwater geology, health, testing, and 
mapping fill the first hundred pages; the bulk of the 
volume covers federal and state laws and adminis- 
trative procedures, the process of presenting 
complaints under them, and methods of grass- 
roots action which often can work quickly while 
legal proceedings are grinding slowly along. Each 
chapter includes extensive references to publica- 
tions and to the relevant laws and rules. 
It’s a good guidebook. Better read it before you 
call your lawyer, or while you're calling your 
neighbors. —Hank Roberts 
The Poisoned Well (New 
Strategies for Groundwater 
Protection); Eric P. Jorgensen 
Editor, Sierra Club Legal 
Defense Fund; 1989; 420 pp. 
$19.95 ($21.95 postpaid) from: 
Island Press, Star Route 1 
Box 38, Covelo, CA 95428 
(800) 828-1302 9 WEA 
Important Early Steps in the Permit Process 
As a general rule, the permit process begins with 
an application from the facility owner to the reg- 
ulatory agency. The basic steps that follow are the 
preparation of a draft permit, public comment, and 
final agency decision on the permit. To be most 
effective in the process, you should not wait until 
the formal public comment period to begin working 
with the agency. By the time a draft permit is writ- 
ten by the agency, many preliminary decisions will 
have been made that could be difficult to reverse. 
By looking for clues in local news stories and other 
community sources, you may be able to identify 
planned new facilities with potential impact on 
groundwater quality even before an application for 
a permit is submitted. Another approach is to 
develop a relationship with staff at the agency who 
can notify you when an applicant first contacts the 
agency. You can also request the agency to notify 
you that a permit application has been received 
(most agencies have a mailing list for this pur- 
pose). 
