[nV 78 5 a wap ANGE F 
Nie: SUIS sali Tr Pg NL 
Native Seeds/SEARCH 
Native Seeds/SEARCH is a nonprofit rescue 
mission for the food plants of native peoples in 
southwestern North America. The turf extends 
roughly north/south from Durango, Colorado, to 
Durango, Mexico, and west/east from Las Vegas, 
Nevada, to Las Vegas, New Mexico. 
The rescued plant might be a bean grown by Tara- 
humara Indians in the Copper Canyon in Mexico or 
Hopi corn from Northern Arizona. Species of native 
American food plants got scarce and began disap- 
pearing with the advent of mechanized irrigation in 
the 1920s. The ethnobotany involved in searching 
out the survivors is as remarkable as the fact that so 
many varieties (200 for sale in the catalog) are still 
clinging to mostly marginal existences. 
Plants and people that survive in the desert have to 
be resilient and with these seeds that often means 
high food value, drought tolerance, and resistance 
to insects and disease. 
The Native Seed people ask that you save seeds 
from what you grow for future gardens and for 
friends. Proceeds go toward propagating more va- 
rieties. For those interested in the work there is a 
newsletter, The Seedhead News. —Richard Nilsen 
Native Seeds/SEARCH Cata- 
log $1, Membership $10/yr. 
(includes the quarterly 
Seedhead News) from: 
Native Seeds/SEARCH 
2509 North Campbell Ave. 
#325, Tucson, AZ 85719 
(602) 327-9123 
Enduring Seeds 
In his third book, ethnobotanist Gary Nabhan 
continues his exploration of American Indian 
farmers and their crops. 
(The preceding books are 
The Desert Smells Like Rain, reviewed on p. 25, 
and Gathering the Desert. Nabhan collects seeds 
from native American food crops and distributes 
them to Indians and others willing to grow and thus 
preserve these often rare and endangered varieties. 
He is also a good writer, and this time travels far 
beyond the Sonoran desert bioregion. This collec- 
tion of essays is filled with good stories of interest- 
ing people in out-of-the-way places. It is history with 
roots in the soils of the present. —Richard Nilsen 
Enduring Seeds 
Gary Paul Nabhan 
1989; 225 pp.; $18.95 
($20.45 postpaid) from: 
North Point Press 
850 Talbot Avenue 
Berkeley, CA 94706 
(415) 527-6260 ** WEA 
Modern agriculture has let temporary cheap petro- 
chemicals and water substitute for the natural intel- 
ligence — the stored genetic and ecological infor- 
mation — in self-adjusting biological communities. 
e 
For centuries, local seed-saving was the norm. 
Ethnobotanist Janis Alcorn has described how tra- 
ditional farmers follow unwritten “scripts,” learned by 
hand and mouth from their elders, that keep agricul- 
tural practices relatively consistent from generation 
to generation. Most land-based cultures have such 
scripts that guide plant selection and seed-saving. 
Each individual farmer might edit this script to fit his 
or her peculiar farming conditions, but the general 
scheme is passed on to the farmer's descendants. 
Thus, the crop traits emerging through natural 
selection in a given locality are retained or elabo- 
rated by recurrent cultural selection. 
The Garden Seed Inventory 
« Seed Savers Exchange 
The Inventory is a piece of cataloging heroics: an 
alphabetical listing of each and every variety of 
nonhybrid vegetable seed for sale by seed houses 
in the U.S. and Canada. That's 5,785 varieties from 
239 wholesale and retail seed companies. So if 
you're a gardener used to buying your favorite chili 
pepper seed from the same source for years — on- 
ly this year it’s NOT THERE — you look that variety 
up and find out who sells it. If you’re a northern 
gardener faced with a short growing season, you 
scan the column that lists days to maturity for each 
variety of a kind of vegetable, and come up with 
whatever is quickest and best for your situation. 
Seed Savers Exchange is the kind of good-works 
nonprofit outfit that people ought to leave money to 
in their wills. Run on a shoestring by Kent Whealy, 
it is the place where gardeners raising unique or 
endangered vegetables swap seeds. Many of the 
varieties have been passed down within families for 
generations. Here seeds are passed from the old to 
the young via the mailman. If you raise vegetables, 
consider joining in and adopting a variety or two. 
—Richard Nilsen 
The Garden Seed In- 
ventory, Kent Whealy, 
Editor; 1985; 422 pp. 
$17.50 postpaid 
Seed Savers Exchange 
Yearbook; 3 issues/yr. 
$15-25 Membership 
(yearbook included) 
Informational brochure 
$1. All from: Seed Savers 
Exchange, Route 3, Box 239 
Decorah, IA 52101 
SAVING SPECIES 31 
Ee 
ea 
ee 
ee er ee 
Cultural Survival 
Homogenization is consuming even the most 
isolated indigenous cultures on the planet. Can the 
languages of threatened cultures be saved? Can 
indigenous people share game parks where white 
men come to play? Is the drug trade crucial to 
some tribal peoples’ cultural survival? Does 
“education” really mean loss of identity? 
Cultural Survival is an organization of concerned 
anthropologists and other citizens trying to pre- 
serve threatened cultures and explore ways in 
which native peoples can accommodate to the 
twentieth century without too great a loss of their 
own uniqueness. Their magazine, Cultural 
Survival Quarterly, provides thorough coverage 
of their efforts. —Peter Warshall 
Cultural Survival 
Quarterly, Jason Clay, 
Ph.D., Editor; $25/year 
(4 issues) from: 
Cultural Survival, Inc. 
11 Divinity Avenue 
Cambridge, MA 02138 
(617) 495-2562 
Divided Twins: 
Alaska and Siberia 
A Russian poet and an American photographer 
teamed up to produce this appeal for political 
sanity. Since there isn’t room here for a complete 
poem, and we can’t show the shockingly pure 
color of the photos, I'll let the poet tell you what he 
had in mind. Maybe it’s because | lived in Alaska 
for three years, but this really got to me as few 
coffee-table books do. 
“In order to come together, people must see each 
other even through walls erected by politics, and 
understand that beauty is not the exclusive 
property of politics but the common property of all 
the inhabitants of the earth. Nature is a potential 
means of mutual understanding.” 
In Russian and English. —JB 
Divided Twins 
(Alaska and Siberia) 
Yevgeny Yevtushenko 
1988; 224 pp.; $40 
($42 postpaid) from: 
Viking Penguin, P.O. 
Box 120, Bergenfield 
NJ 07621-0120 
(800) 331-4624 9 WEA 
Siberian babushkas. 
The Journal of Wild Culture 
What happens when a bunch of rogue ecologists 
and whackea-out artists have a head-on collision? 
The Journal of Wild Culture, that’s what. 
You won't find a lot of statistics in The Journal. 
They are less interested in the exact number of 
snail darters in Lower East Baby Fat than they are 
in emerging philosophies that link human activities 
to the planet as a whole. The Journal also takes 
frequent detours through the imaginations of 
artists and writers who offer up such tidbits as 
spurious new insect and animal species (like the 
ink-eating Print Grub, blamed for numerous 
magazine typos), thoughts on the loss of goddess 
culture, a William Burroughs-type cut-up short 
story, and ways of showing proper reverence for 
your recipe ingredients. 
If, like some of us, you have occasionally thought 
of the ecological movement as a bunch of dour, 
no-fun sprout-munchers, The Journal of Wild 
Culture will cure you once and for all. 
—Richard Kadrey 
The Journal of 
Wild Culture, Whitney 
Smith, Editor; $15/year 
(4 issues) from: The 
Society for the Preser- 
vation of Wild Culture 
158 Crawford Street 
Toronto, Ontario 
Canada M6J 2V4 
(416) 588-8266 
] 
WALD CULTURE 
With 
