ERED 
ie eee 
ee 
The Healthy Home 
Like a cop giving you a few words about your 
driving habits, this book is nothing but the facts. 
They're what you need to know to have a safe and 
healthy home. This unsmiling book covers just 
about everything — you can use it to give your 
place a comprehensive health audit (which my 
humble home flunks in a discouraging number of 
departments). What to do about the problems is 
discussed too, mostly from a straight, conventional 
viewpoint. Think of it as a fad-free home health & 
safety review book. —JB 
The Healthy Home 
Linda Mason Hunter; 1989 
320 pp.; $21.95 (Postpaid 
price depends on destination) 
Rodale Press 
33 East Minor St. 
Emmaus, PA 18098 
(215) 967-5171 *®WEA 
A ceiling light is not a good choice to illuminate a 
countertop, because it throws a shadow over the 
work area. A better choice is a light under the 
cabinet. 
Purify the air. Chemical filter systems can be used 
to reduce contaminants in the air. However, these 
may be costly and they require constant monitor- 
ing. A cheaper alternative is to buy some house- 
plants. Research by the U.S. National Aeronautics 
and Space Administration (NASA) has shown that 
the leaves of philodendrons, spider plants, and 
other common houseplants absorb formaldehyde. 
Dr. Bill Wolverton, senior research scientist at 
NASA, told Practical Homeowner magazine (Sep- 
tember 1987) that about 15 to 20 such plants 
should completely remove the formaldehyde from 
an 1,800-square-foot house. 
e 
Unexpected sounds: 
. 
. 
. In the quiet of night, the 
creak of a door can be enormously disturbing. 
Even the barely audible click of an electric blanket 
thermostat was once likened by Consumers Union 
to the “stomping of a robin on a lawn.” 
Livos Non-Toxic Home 
Products « Auro Natural 
Plant Chemistry 
These rival vendors probably will wince when they 
see themselves bunched together here — it has 
been my experience that their salespeople tend to 
engage in a bit of mutual sniping. Fact is that they 
both make paints, pigments, wood preservatives, 
adhesives, waxes and even kid's art supplies. 
Both claim to use only natural, non-toxic materials 
such as lemon oil and natural earth pigments. 
(Note that this does not mean you can drink the 
stuff.) Auro tells you exactly what is in each 
product, and how to dispose of any leftovers — 
Livos doesn't. Colors tend to the earthy. Smells 
tend to be nice. Assiduous use of these products 
eliminates many of the sources of chemical 
sensitivity in a home. Paint performance seems to 
be acceptable, though under severe conditions (as 
X 
Greater 
Than 
Women’s 
Exposure 
Boe Te 
ae Pen er Sos os er 
For Our Kids’ Sake 
Yeah, well, it's one thing to eat bad stuff yourself 
— after all most of us have probably been doing 
that for many years, much of the time unknow- 
ingly. But ourkids 
. 
. 
. and now we know! This 
book, as | suppose it must, makes clear the 
unhappy problems. At least there isn’t any preach- 
ing and blame-laying. More usefully, it goes way 
beyond the usual media-hyped scary stories, and 
authoritatively spells out just what pesticides are 
used on what edibles, what the dangers are, and 
what you can or can’t do about it.(Will it wash off, 
for instance.) And then comes the Big Message: 
WE can and WE must DO something about all 
this. And the rest of the book is how to lobby, 
cajole, support, and otherwise take action to make 
things better for the kids, of course, and ourselves. 
Strong stuff, unusually well detailed and well 
presented. —JB [Suggested by Keith Jordan] 
For Our Kids’ Sake 
(How to Protect Your 
Child Against Pesticides 
in Food), Ann Witte 
Garland; 1989; 87 pp. 
$6.95 ($9.95 postpaid) 
from: Sierra Club Books 
730 Polk Street 
San Francisco, CA 94109 
(415) 923-5500 **WEA 
Differences in Relative Exposure 
(Children vs. Women) 
Hl 1-2 Year-Olds 
1-5 Year-Olds 
7 Ways to protect your family against pesticides in 
food 
1. Wash all produce. 
2. Peel produce when appropriate. 
3. Buy certified organically-grown fruits and 
vegetables. 
4. Buy domestically-grown produce in season. 
5. Beware of perfect-looking produce. 
6. Grow your own produce if possible. 
7. Write to your elected officials. 
on a boat, for instance) not always up to the 
standards of heavy-duty products redolent with 
foul substances. For most uses at home or office, 
they do very well — I’ve heard few complaints, 
and would not hesitate to use either brand. —JB 
Livos Non-Toxic Home Products 
Catalog free from: 1365 Rufina Circle, Suite WE 
Santa Fe, NM 87501; (505) 438-3448 
Auro Natural Plant Chemistry 
Catalog free from: Sinan Company, P. O. Box 
857, Davis, CA 95617-0857; (916) 753-3104 
See also... 
Water pp. 22-23, Staying Healthy pp. 64-65, 
and Pollution p. 86. For a performance test of 
home water filters, see Consumer Reports, 
Jan. 1990, pp. 27-43. 
SAFE HOUSES 63 
Thermal Pest Eradication 
(TPE) 
You are invited to a house roast. No, not arson for 
insurance; heating for pest eradication. Seems 
that nearly all destructive and otherwise obnoxious 
insects that infest buildings can be killed by simply 
raising the interior temperature of the building’s 
structural components to 120° F. That’s done by 
“bagging” the building with lightweight tarps, then 
fan-blowing the bag full of hot air from a portable 
propane furnace (after people and heat-sensitive 
equipment such as computers have left, of 
course). About 8 hours later — it takes that long 
for the heat to penetrate structural members — 
you can move back in. You'll be lonely: the 
termites, cockroaches, lygus bugs, powderpost 
beetles, etc. will be gone. Even better, there is no 
danger from pesticide residue, no smell, and 
reinfestation rates are much lower than with other 
pest control methods. Does it work? Yes, it does, 
according to many scientifically controlled tests 
and many houses so treated. Cost Is little, if any, 
greater than chemical treatment. 
I'll guess that this method, developed by Walter 
Ebeling and the late Charles F. Forbes, will soon 
take the place of chemical fumigation. It’s a good 
example of modern technology (and good think- 
ing) being used to solve a very old problem. 
Franchises and training are available, in case 
you're looking for work. 
Late news: it seems that house-roasting also has 
the effect of baking volatile organic compounds 
out of the materials used in new building construc- 
tion. Where this has been done, occupant com- 
plaints of illness caused by reactions to construc- 
tion materials have fallen dramatically — often to 
zero. —JB 
Thermal Pest Eradication 
Information free from: 
Isothermics, P.O. Box 18703 
Anaheim, CA 92817-8703; (714) 778-1396 
Blowing a house full of hot air kills virtually all 
obnoxious and destructive insects, including 
termites and cockroaches. This is the test rig 
where the TPE technique was proven and made 
practical. 
From IPM Practitioner, see p. 47 
The Blizzard System 
Freezing the little buggers to death is another way 
of de-insecting your place without using noxious 
chemicals. The enemy is zapped with liquid 
nitrogen injected through a little nozzle inserted 
into the affected area. (If water pipes are in there, 
they get drained first.) Under appropriate condi- 
tions, it works well. So far, the proprietary tech- 
nique is available only in the San Diego area, but 
national availability is planned. Might work for 
infestations of obnoxious relatives, too. —JB 
For more information contact Tallon Termite and 
Pest Control (213) 422-1131. 
