60 EFFICIENT HOUSEWARE 
Rising Sun 
Just One Bulb... 
Would you put money into a scheme that pays an 
average 34% return on investment? What if that 
investment also had a powertul, positive environ- 
mental effect? Sounds too good to be true, but 
that’s what happens when you buy and use low- 
energy lighting. Even a single lamp — just one, the 
one you buy to start retrofitting your home or 
business or church — will eliminate the need for 
mining and burning about 350 Ibs. of coal, and the 
consequent emission of about 1000 Ibs. of carbon 
dioxide, a “greenhouse gas” thought to be the 
principal cause of global warming. Your lamp will 
also keep about 20 Ibs. of acid-rain-causing sulphur 
dioxide out of our atmosphere. Low-energy lamps 
run cool too, reducing the need for air conditioning 
in larger buildings. And a typical low-energy lamp 
lasts ten to thirteen times longer than a regular 
incandescent, important for hard-to-reach locations 
and for businesses where bulb-changing labor costs 
are significant. Icing on the cake: many people 
prefer the quality of light from the low energy lamps. 
Not bad for one little bulb! 
Disadvantages? There are a few. First is the price. 
The return on investment may be high, but so is the 
capital outlay. In some locations this problem is be- 
ing met by subsidy or even give-aways by power 
companies with management intelligent enough to 
realize that reduced demand means no risky outlays 
for new power plants. For a substantial number of 
lamps, you can work out lease/purchase, shared 
savings or other plans designed to ease the pain. 
Just plain folks may find it easier to spread costs by 
buying one lamp a month. (That’s what | do.) Re- 
member, these lamps are truly an investment, and a 
better one than you'd likely find anywhere else. 
Another drawback is that most of the low-energy 
lamps start slowly and flickery when cold (say, 40° 
F.) and may not start at all below 30° F. This might 
prove to be a winter problem in homes, garages, 
churches, and shops with wide temperature swings 
due to wood heat or occasional use. I’ve had no 
intolerable problems down to 30°. 
These lamps are not economical for quick on-ana- 
off duty such as in a closet. Their fatter bases will 
not fit all fixtures, shades, and reflectors. The added 
weight of certain bulbs will cause 
some spring-arm lamps to droop. 
_In short, the field is still new; you 
should be prepared for a bit of ex- 
perimentation. 
One last point: These lamps are 
fluorescent, and many people (including me) just 
don't like fluorescents. But these lamps don’t hum 
or flicker, and the light has a warm feel to it. | 
suggest trying before deciding. Turns out that | 
actually prefer mine to conventional incandescents. 
In fact, this Ecolog has been edited by light from an 
Rising Sun Sampler Catalog; $5 postpaid from: 
Rising Sun Enterprises, Inc., P.O. Box 586, 
Old Snowmass, CO 81654; (303) 927-8051 
(Right) Passive 
infrared wall switch 
saves energy 
otherwise spent 
lighting unoccupied 
spaces. 
(Below) The “real cost” 
of lighting: this sample 
worksheet compares 
the life-cycle cost of 
operating a long lived, 
energy-efficient 
compact fluorescent 
lamp to a standard 
incandescent lamp — 
“light bulb” — of 
comparable light 
output. As the sample 
calculations below 
illustrate, the compact 
fluorescent lamp offers 
substantial economic 
savings both by 
operating 75% more 
energy efficiently 
(using 55 less watts) 
than the incandescent 
and lasting more than 
13 times as long. 
COMPACT FLUORESCENT OPTION 
20-WATT (INTEGRAL ONE-PIECE) "DULUX EL" 
a Simply replaces existing light switches 
Sd large 800 sq. ft. of coverage 
°° Built-in light level sensor 
¢ Adjustable Sensitivity & Time Delay 
¢ Advanced transformer/latching relay design 
¢ Proven 30% to 60% savings 
¢ Three-year warranty; UL Listed 
The Watt Watcher WI-120 and WI-277 automatic 
wall switches simply replace existing wall 
switches and turn lighting systems on only 
when offices, conference rooms, copy rooms or 
utility rooms are actually occupied. Lighting systems are automatically turned off after 
the controlled area is left unoccupied for a user-specified length of time. When the area 
is used again, the lights are automatically turned on. Savings of 30% to 60% are common. 
REFLECT-A-STAR. These 
= —— 
** —. 
unique 9- and 13-watt quad | 
compact fluorescent reflec- 
| 
a 
tor lamps replace 50-75 
a 
’ 
watt incandescent 
reflector floods. The 
product is engineered 
to provide many years 
of high performance 
and is available in two 
wattages and 2 reflector 
sizes. Choose one that 
fits your fixture. 
Resteccable frasresasat leap 
ZF > 
COMPACT FLUORESCENT LAMP 
RATED LIFE: 10,000 HOURS 
LAMP COST: $25.95 
(Ome 
lO 000 
hours 
1 
NONE! 
5st. 
$/kWh 
0.074 
SE 
ee Sn 
SI 
5 
40.75 
(1) What is the rated wattage of the lamp --"light bulb” (including 
ballast draw for the compact fluorescent)? 
(2) What is the rated life of the lamp? 
(3) How many lamps will have to be installed to produce light for 
as many hours as the single compact fluorescent lamp? 
[Divide the rated life of the compact fluorescent option by the 
rated life of the incandescent option and place answer in blank 
at right] 
(4) How much energy does each option consume over the life of 
the compact fluorescent lamp? 
{Multiply (1) x (2) x (3) to get watt-hours, and divide the result 
by 1,000 to convert to kilowatt-hours] 
(5) What does your utility company charge you for eletricity per 
kilowatt-hour? 
(The national average is $0.074/kWh.) 
(6) How much will it cost you to operate each option over the life 
of the compact fluorescent lamp? 
{Multiply (4) x (5)] 
(7) What will it cost you to purchase the lamps for each option 
over the life of a single compact fluorescent lamp? 
{cost per lamp x (3)] 
(8) What will it cost you to install the lamp(s) for each option? 
{If you pay someone to maintain your lighting system, multiply 
their hourly wage ( ) x the amount of time it will take them to 
replace the lightbulb x (3)] 
(9) How much will it cost you to get rid of the unwanted heat 
produced by each option over its lifetime? 
{If you use an air conditioner or fan to cool your home or 
business for part of the year, multiply (6) x .055 cooling penalty 
for residences or (6) x .14 cooling penalty for commercial 
facilities. ] 
(10) 
What will it cost you to buy, operate, and maintain each 
option over the lifetime of a single compact fluorescent lamp? 
[Add (6) + (7) + (8) + (9)] 
11) How much money have you saved by investing in a single compact fluorescent lamp? 
{Subtract (10) left column from (10) right column] 
¢ 24.714 
INCANDESCENT OPTION 
75-WATT STANDARD "A" LAMP 
INCANDESCENT LAMP 
RATED LIFE: 750 HOURS 
LAMP COST: $0.75 
[oe watts 
[50 
hours 
|B. 2 
750 wn 
DOTA sien 
5 95.50 
wader a 
5 05-49 
