Secret House 
MOMMY! There are about two million mites in my 
bed! On average, of course, and they’re in your 
bed too. But yucky beings aren't the only interest- 
ing things you'll find in this 24-hour science tour of 
a typical home. Did you know that window glass is 
a thick liquid that glaciers slowly down the frame? 
That you shed veritable clouds of skin flakes as 
you walk around? That salting your food causes 
bacteria to explode? The tour talks of light bulbs, 
sneezes, lightning, ice cream and bathtubs. The 
explanations are bright, witty, and appealing to 
kids and adults alike. Eighty good photographs 
(you'll wish for more) illuminate the text. Wonder- 
ful! Aieee! —JB 
The Secret House 
David Bodanis; 1988 
224 pp.; $12.95 ($14.45 
postpaid) from: 
Simon & Schuster 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
(201) 767-5937 **WEA 
As the roar continues and the vacuum cleaner is 
moved back and forth directly overhead, the winds 
on the bottom get worse and worse. Not only are 
the dust pebbles being pulled up, not only are the 
broken matting fragments and other debris being 
hauled up out of sight into the sky, but even the 
living mite populations are beginning to be 
dragged away. At first it’s only the stacked piles of 
mummified great-grandparent ancestors who go, 
swaying and rocking till they soar straight up in the 
suction wind, their hollow husks too light to resist. 
But then the smallest baby mites get tugged up, 
their eight legs grasping down as hard as they can 
to resist, but the vacuum pull is great, and their 
weight is slight, the feet pull loose, one by one, 
and then the young creatures are accelerated up 
and out of sight in the gale too. 
It sounds horrendous, but we’re not mites. The 
baby mites whooshed into the vacuum cleaner 
survive their high speed ascent without harm. 
Their tumbling and twisting in the air is safe 
enough, and when they do land in the cleaner’s 
bag their touchdown will be cushioned by the piles 
and piles of dust already there. Nor is this just 
ordinary, run-of-the-mill, sneeze-producing and 
forget-about-it dust. Sucked up in the house this 
dust has a terrific number of human skin flakes in 
it, and skin flakes, remember, are the favorite food 
of these mites. They have landed in dust mite 
heaven.... 
The human pushing the vacuum cleaner gets 
peppered with millions of high speed dust and mite 
pellets every minute. It’s not a gentle pitter-patter 
either, but a wall of blasting shots, as if a fleet of 
miniature wooden sailing ships were blasting 
shells of hardened mite faeces and dust particles 
from their brass cannons in one broadside after 
another through giant nets (the bag) against him. 
Physics 
To have no understanding of basic physics in an 
industrial society is to be ignorant in a debilitating 
way; even if you don’t like science and technology, 
there’s no point in being blind. But learning physics 
is tough if you aren't adept at calculus. Until now. 
These three books are marvels of clarity — entirely 
free the of author ego-brandishing that so often 
clouds explanatory writing. Conceptual Physics is 
the whole bit right up to a nibble of quantum 
physics. Thinking Physics is a set of fun and 
maddening questions that force you to use your 
noodle (and what you’ve learned in the first book). 
Relativity Visualized is just that, and a good job of 
it, too. You’re unlikely to find an easier way to learn 
this stuff. —JB 
Conceptual Physics 
Paul G. Hewitt 
1985; 650 pp.; $45.75 
($48.25 postpaid) from: 
Scott Foresman 
1900 E. Lake Ave. 
Glen View, IL 60025 
(708) 729-3000 **WEA 
Thinking Physics 
Lewis C. Epstein 
1986; 565 pp.; $19.95 
($22.90 postpaid) 
Relativity Visualized 
Lewis C. Epstein 
1985; 200 pp.; $15.95 
($18.90 postpaid) 
Both from: Insight Press 
614 Vermont, San Francisco 
CA 94107 %*WEA 
THINKING » 
fy sees 
* This was my father’s favorite physics question. —L. Epstein 
Battleship floating in a bathtub 
Can a battleship float in a bathtub?* Of course, 
you have to imagine a very big bathtub or a very 
small battleship. In either case, there is just a bit of 
water all around and under the ship. Specifically, 
suppose the ship weighs 100 tons (a very small 
ship) and the water in the tub weighs 100 pounds. 
Will it float or touch bottom? 
a) It will float if there is enough water to go all 
around it. 
b) It will touch bottom because the ship’s weight 
exceeds the water’s weight. 
The answer is: a. There are a lot of ways to show 
why. This way was suggested by a student. 
Consider the ship floating in the ocean (sketch |). 
Next, surround the ship with a big plastic baggie 
— this is actually done sometimes with oil tankers 
— (sketch Il). Next, let the ocean freeze except 
for the water in the baggie next to the ship (sketch 
lll). Finally, get an ice sculptor to cut a bathtub out 
of the solid ice and you have it (sketch IV). 
The question points out the danger of thinking in 
LEARNING 12 
RS 
words, rather than think- 
ing in pictures and ideas. 
1 
If you just think in words 
you might reason: “To 
float, the battleship must 
displace its own weight 
in water. Its own weight 
is 100 tons, but there is 
only 100 pounds of water 
available — so it cannot 
float.” But if you picture 
the idea you will see the 
displacement refers to 
the water that would fill 
the ship’s hull if the 
inside of the ship’s hull 
were filled to the water- 
line. And this displace- 
ment is 100 tons. 
Don’t rely on words, or 
equations, until you can 
picture the idea they 
represent. 
. 
—Thinking Physics 
Galileo’s explanation: The following is Galileo’s ex- 
planation of why large and small masses (disre- 
garding air resistance) fall at the same rate. 
The acceleration of a large falling rock is the same 
as the acceleration of a small falling rock because 
a large rock is just a bunch of small rocks falling 
together. 
This explanation is occasionally reinvented by 
people who think about these things. Though not 
the first to think this way, they walk in the foot- 
prints of the old master! —Aelativity Visualized 
How to Tell the Liars From 
the Statisticians 
“Let’s see the numbers” isn’t enough. What you 
really mean is “Let's interpret the numbers.” That 
isn't always easy, particularly if it’s been a few 
years since your last stat class. This book makes it 
easy to see through the crap, including your own. 
(It is most embarrassing to be called out for tainted 
number manipulations, especially if you're trying to 
be good.) We liked a book on the same subject a 
long time ago, How to Lie With Statistics. This 
one is similar, but more up to date. Thankfully, the 
reading is easy. Amusing, even. —JB 
How to Tell the Liars 
From the Statisticians 
Robert Hooke; 1983; 173 pp. 
$35 ($35.50 postpaid) from: 
Marcel Dekker, Inc. 
270 Madison Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
(212) 696-6000 ext. 228 
WEA 
Let's take a utility company that wants to keep up 
with 10% inflation by raising its rates 10%. Sup- 
pose it has a million customers with an average 
monthly bill of $72. A business reporter can 
choose from these three headlines: 
Utility Asks 1¢ Rate Increase 
Utility Seeks 10% Rate Hike 
Utility Asks for $86.4 Million Increase 
The first of these is based on the hourly rate, as 
done when unions demand raises. The second is 
the reasonable way of describing the request. The 
third is an annual total and is calculated to encour- 
age angry readership. It isn’t necessary to point 
out which one of these three headlines is nearly 
always the chosen one. 
