112 PUBLICATIONS 
Environ, Garbage, and E. 
These three keep up with all that's good and bad 
in the general field of popular environmental 
concern. Environ was the first, though right now it 
isn’t as flashy as the competition. Health is a major 
concern. (The same folks also publish The Wary 
Canary, p. 64.) 
To me, E and Garbage are hard to tell apart. (I 
mean their editors no insult). They cover much the 
same news. E recently won a prize for good 
reporting; their articles are extensive and bite 
deeper than do those in many popular magazines. 
Garbage belies its name by reporting on lots 
besides solid waste management, using lots of 
color and upscale graphic design. It’s great for a 
quick hit on an unfamiliar subject. Both magazines 
are loaded with advertising puffing “green” prod- 
ucts, services, and organizations — hence are a 
good place to keep up with what's available. I'd 
say the choice of any of the three is a matter | BY 
of personal taste. —JB 
u 
Environ, Suzanne & Ed Randegger, Ed- 
itors; $15/year (four issues) from: Environ, 
P.O. Box 2204, Fort Collins, CO 80522 
E: The Environmental Magazine, Doug 
Moss, Editor; $20/year (six issues) from: E 
Magazine, Subscription Department, P. O. jf 
‘Box 6667, Syracuse, NY 13217-7934 
if 
Garbage, Patricia Poore, Editor; $21/year 
(six issues) from: Garbage, P. O. Box 
51647, Boulder, CO 80321-1647 
On nutritional tests, Organic Foods Produc- 
tion Association of North America concludes: 
While there are studies indicating that some nutri- 
tional benefits may derive from excellent organic 
growing methods (versus conventional methods), 
adequate research has not yet been done to prove 
this, and such market claims are ill-advised at this 
time. Furthermore, the use in the marketplace of 
individual nutrient test results (even if no general- 
ized claims are made regarding growing method 
superiority) is problematic and of questionable va- 
lidity 
... Therefore, nutrient testing is seen as best 
relegated to the realm of research for the present. 
Drafters of the OFPANA report included chemists, 
agronomists and nutritionists as well as organic 
farmers which adds to its credibility. —Environ 
Evrae 
“Debt-for-nature” swaps pose other troublesome 
questions. The idea, conceived by the Smithson- 
ian Institution’s Thomas Lovejoy, is that big envi- 
ronmental groups buy up discounted debt certifi- 
cates owned by foreign nations to U.S. banks in 
exchange for protection of forests and wildlife pre- 
serves. The World Wildlife Fund kicked this off, ap- 
parently successfully, in Ecuador. But in Bolivia, in 
the two years since Conservation International (Cl) 
retired $650,000 of the country’s debt, not a single 
tree has been planted under the required program, 
lumber companies have hacked down thousands 
more mahogany trees, and Cl has ended up on 
the side of commercial logging interests in oppos- 
ing the demands of indigenous peoples. —E 
Weer a 
fo 
Ambio 
Authoritative and glossy, this Sweden-based 
magazine is the voice of establishment interna- 
tional environmentalism. When | was working on a 
article about genotoxins — the flood of new 
chemicals that cause cancer and gene damage — 
Ambio was my most indispensable source of up- 
to-date information. 
—Stewart Brand 
Ambio 
Arno Rosemarin, Editor 
$44/year (8 issues) from: 
Pergamon Press, Inc. 
Maxwell House 
Fairview Park 
Elmsford, NY 10523 
Yo! AMIGo!| 
E NEED THAT TREE 
TO PROTECT US FR 
ROM 
| 
THE GREENHOUSE EFFECT: 
Natural History Magazine 
| use It two ways: The monthly column “This View 
of Life” by Stephen Jay Gould, who teaches 
Biology, Geology and History of Science at 
Harvard, regularly contributes to (or at least 
soundly reaffirms) my understanding of how the 
world works. He explains fundamental issues 
clearly and always sets them against a back- 
ground of why anyone ever thought differently. 
Second, it is written and edited in such a way that 
our children seem to get as much out of it as we 
do. It is one of the few publications we’ve found 
that has this quality. 
A good magazine at a good 
price from a great institution. —George Putz 
Natural History, Alan 
Ternes, Editor; $22/year 
(12 issues) from: Nat- 
ural History, P. O. Box 
5000, Harlan, IA 51537- 
5000; (800) 234-5252 
A wild boar stands under 
the trees of Nordeifel 
Nature Park in West Ger- 
many. The species, orig- 
inally widespread in Eu- 
ropes 
is a found in numerous nature reserves. 
—Scott Willis, Garbage 
| 
kde Baye Sn ee Renate erm 
Aart ae 8 | 
Orion 
How about a quarterly nature magazine that 
features as many pictures of people as of birds or 
trees? Orion sees humans as part of the natural 
environment, and | find it a more believable nature 
magazine because of that. This full-color glossy 
has no political constituency to please (both 
Audubon and Sierra are straitjacketed by mem- 
bership dogma), but simply raises interesting, 
intelligent topics, one per issue — such as “Archi- 
tecture in relation to nature,” “Sustainable agricul- 
ture,” “Forms and patterns,” or Migrations.” Every 
issue is a refreshing enlargement of what “nature 
means. —Kevin Kelly [Suggested by James 
Jackson] 
” 
Orion Nature 
Quarterly, George K. 
Russell, Editor; $14/year 
(4 issues) from: 
The Myrin Insti- 
tute, Inc., 136 E. 
64th Street 
New York, NY 
10021 
(212) 758-6475 
Docks at Manaus, the transportation hub of 
the Amazon, shipping point for bananas, 
fish, and other produce of the region. 
Resources everywhere 
Eco-developers set out to prospect the broad 
range of life-supporting factors to assure the 
sustainability of yields over the long term. Through 
their glasses, numerous things and actions which 
so far had been taken for granted acquire a new, 
dramatic significance: they change into valuable 
resources. Cow dung, for example, kindled by the 
Senegalese peasant to heat water in the cooking 
pot, suddenly becomes an energy resource; the 
scrap metal used by a Peruvian squatter to build 
an annex to his hut takes on the dignity of a 
recoverable input; Kenyan women cultivating 
village fields are discovered to be human re- 
sources for boosting food production. Under 
Worldwatch eyes, more and more parts of the 
world assume a new status; they are disembed- 
ded from their local context and redefined as 
resources. 
Resources count not because of what they are but 
because of what they can become. They are 
stripped of their own worth in the present in order 
to be stripmined for somebody else’s use in the 
future. A resource is something that has no value 
until it has been made into something else. For 
more than100 years the term “resource” has been 
used to survey the world for useful inputs into 
industry. 
P
