66 BICYCLING 
A HUMAN ona 
bicycle moves more effi- 
ciently than any other vehicle or animal, 
including birds and fish! Bikes are not entirely 
pollution-free, though. Nothing is. A bicycle 
consumes resources and energy in ifs manu- 
facture and maintenance. Its “motor,” you, 
consumes calories and discharges a catalog 
of toxic waste. Bicycles also need a reasona- 
bly well-manicured riding surface, though 
mountain bikes reduce the necessity for 
expensive, energy-intensive paving. 
The bicycle’s remarkable efficiency and af- 
fordability make it the best personal transpor- 
tation choice where conditions permit its 
reasonable use. Ironically, even though our 
country ranks fourth worldwide in bicycles per 
capita, we use them mostly for recreation. On 
the other hand, we have the bikes. Now all 
we have to do is use them instead of our cars. 
Perhaps the rapidly growing auto-caused pol- 
lution problems will force us to. Meantime, sur- 
prisingly satisfying urban machines — the so 
called “city bike” clones of mountain bikes — 
can be had for less than $300. Their friendly 
riding characteristics, sturdiness and low main- 
tenance make bicycle commuting easier 
than ever before. Give it a try. —JB 
Rigs RG FRCL RE xl er SR Eats AE PE eA ele NN BE 
Bicycling Science 
For 16 years this book has been the best place to 
learn the engineering principles of bicycle design. 
The information is solidly backed by extensive lab 
and field testing, yet is presented in a jargon-free, 
easily understood manner. All aspects of the 
bicycle are covered, including the rider and bike/ 
rider relationship (ergonomics). If you're consider- 
ing the construction of a bike or HPV, or are just 
curious about your mount, this is lesson one. —JB 
To handbrake 
lever 
To front brake 
/ 
Rear-wheel brake 
/ 
Calderazzo feedback brake system. When hand- 
brake is operated, rear brake is carried forward on 
slider against spring, actuating front brake 
simultaneously. If bicycle starts to pitch forward, 
rear wheel is no longer rotated by road surface, 
and front brake is released. 
Bicycling Science (2nd Edition) 
Frank Rowland Whitt & David 
Gordon Wilson; 1982; 364 pp. 
$12.50 ($15 postpaid) from: 
The MIT Press, Attn: Ordering 
Dept., 55 Hayward Street, 
Cambridge, MA 02142 
(800) 356-0343 WEA 
Mountain ATB 
Alex Moulton Bicycles 
Probably the state of the art in bicycles, the AM 
utilizes a supple suspension to enhance roadhold- 
ing and ride comfort. Small wheels permit a low 
center of gravity for stable load carrying, and 
combine with a clever take-apart feature to give 
compact storage. Models available for touring, 
racing, commuting, and off-road. You have to ride 
one to believe how good it is. —JB 
Alex Moulton Bicycles, $1500-$4200; 
Information free from: 
Angle Lake Cyclery, 20840 Pacific Highway, 
South Seattle, WA 98198-5999; (206) 878-7457 
Advantages 
of AMMTB 
over 
traditional 
design. 
20 inch wheels: 
F. Suspension is adjustable. 
G. Allows radial spoking of front wheel 
and X-3 rear without any durability 
A. Stronger— shorter spokes, etc. 
B. Less weight-net— also less rotat- 
ing weight. 
C. Compactness/stowability. 
D. “Nimble” handling. Less effort re- 
quired in actual Mountain Bike use— 
upper body wise-when negotiating 
obstacles—26” wheels much heavier, 
taxing your endurance. 
Suspension (patented) 
A. Smooth ride-NOTE: A dampen- 
ing, simple suspension-no hydrau- 
lics. Not to completely isolate the 
individual. 
B. Traction. Wheels on the ground 
much more of the time. 
C. Wrist fatigue drastically reduced. 
D. Person more relaxed because of 
more control. 
E. Faster..For the enthusiast you can 
side effects. 
H. Less wheel maintainance. Sus- 
pension absorbs shock rather than 
wheels. 
|, More “in saddle” time off road 
reducing leg fatigue. 
“Space” type frame design—patented 
A The most rigid frame on the 
market-virtually no BB flex. 
B. Combined with 20” wheels-the 
lowest center of gravity available. 
C. Lack of “Lethal” top tube (also a 
unisex design). 
D. Patented 
separating 
feature— 
simple-w/no 
changes 
in 
frame 
strength over rigid design. Fits in car 
trunk. A traveling “Go With” mountain 
bike. 
E. Pump stowage inside seat post 
tube. 
just plain go faster because the bike is Incredible batance. 
not being thrown off course. 
No weight penalty vs. competing non-sus- 
pended bikes. 
PREPS LATP MOR Oa SIT IOS ESN IPE BA Sate 
S| 
Burley Lite Bicycle Trailers 
One reason | don’t use a bike trailer much is 
because of the time | loaded one with builder's 
supplies to the recommended capacity of the 
trailer and was just humpin’ along when | had to 
make a hot stop halfway around a curve. No, my 
problems didn’t arise from inadequate brakes; the 
resultant pirouette was initiated by the trailer hitch 
transferring the trailer momentum to my seatpost, 
’ 
high, not aligned with my direction. But this trailer 
hitches low, to the axle, and actually adds weight 
to that axle in a stop so you don’t tend to do over- 
the-bars so easily. I’ve only ridden with one a short 
distance, but even the short ride showed clearly 
that this arrangement works better than the usual. 
Yes, you can turn the bike either way despite the 
asymmetry. Workmanship seems good. 
—JB 
SSS 
Institute for Transportation 
and Development Policy 
These folks are best known for their Bikes Not 
Bombs programs all over the world. They help 
local people and sometimes governments develop 
bicycle programs and the support necessary to 
keep them going. It’s tough work, but this sort of 
thing is essential if developing countries are not to 
fall even further into the hopeless trap of spending 
huge amounts of scarce capital to make fancy 
auto roads for a population too poor to drive. —JB 
Institute for Transportation and Development 
Policy, $30/year regular member from: ITDP, 
P.O. Box 56538, Washington, DC 20011 
| 
Sid Shutt's Hydro-ped in operation. 
Human Power 
People-as-engines is the underlying theme of this 
lively journal put out by the International Human 
Powered Vehicle Association. There is an air of 
pioneering about it all; the people involved are 
trying everything imaginable in the search for more 
efficient transportation. Controversy abounds. 
Innovation abounds. Hot-blooded spirit abounds. 
Just what you'd expect on a frontier. —JB 
Human Power David Gordon 
Wilson, Editor; $20/year (4 
issues) includes membership 
in IHPVA and 8 issues of HPV 
News; All from: The International 
Human Powered Vehicle 
Association, P. O. Box 51225, 
Indianapolis, IN 46251-0255 
(317) 876-9478 
It seems only natural when commercial sponsors 
ask approaching HPV builders to lay their cards on 
the table. It is thus only fair when such donors 
claim their money’s worth of the deal in return. Yet, 
HPV activists often risk falling into the hands of 
unscrupulous marketing strategists who all too 
often misuse clearly ecological pioneering deeds 
to promote polluting consumerism. 
Has any recipient ever managed to ask a commer- 
cial donor to lay open his forthcoming publicity 
plans in return? —HPV News 
Burley Lite Tourist Bicycle Trailer 
$235 (approx.) 
Burley Lite Bicycle Trailer 
(child carrying model) $250 (approx.) 
Burley d’Lite Bicycle Trailer 
(foldable child carrier) $335 (approx.) 
(All models are available with extra options) 
Check your local bike shop 
Nearest dealer information free from: 
Burley Design Cooperative, 4080 Stewart 
Road, Eugene, OR 97402; (503) 687-1644 
