104 COMMUNITY ACTION 
A Wildlife, Coastal & 
Parkland Conservation Act 
Proposition 70, is what it was called on the 1988 
California ballot. There was very little opposition, 
and it passed easily, netting $776 million for a 
variety of environmental projects all over the state. 
Where were the traditional foes of such legisla- 
tion? The organizers fielded 20,000 volunteers to 
gather the 730,000 signatures that got the meas- 
ure on the ballot. How was this done? The assis- 
tant campaign director, Esther Feldman, tells how 
in this booklet from the organization that did the 
deed, the Planning and Conservation League. 
PCL strategies and tactics are basically non-con- 
tentious: get opposing sides to identify what they 
can agree on, and go for that; spread the benefits 
over a wide constituency; thoroughly organize the 
effort in an impeccably professional manner. It 
works. PCL has been involved in the passage of 
every major piece of California environmental law 
for the past 25 years, making it one of the most 
effective lobbying organizations in the country. 
This booklet presents their generic recipe in 
sufficient detail that you can go and do likewise in 
your situation. The advice is well-written, utterly 
clear, toughened and honed by a quarter century 
of successful campaigns. It’s the best manual for 
environmental political action I’ve ever seen. —JB 
_A Wildlife, Coastal & 
Parkland Conservation 
Act, Esther Feldman 
1988; 39 pp.; $10 post- 
paid from: Planning and 
Conservation League 
Foundation, 909 12th 
Street, Suite 203, 
en 
Sacramento, CA 95814. 
(916) 444-8726 
Each land acquisition project must meet the 
following minimum criteria: 
1) There must be willing sellers. This is to avoid 
any possibility of controversy. 
2) It must be a sound environmental project, with 
good reasons for being perserved. 
3) The proposed acquisition should be part of a 
local or state general plan if at all possible. (We 
waived this requirement in a few cases.) 
4) The project must be absolutely non-controver- 
sial, particularly with respect to landowners. 
* This cannot be stressed strongly enough! Don't 
create a constituency that will oppose you with a 
funded campaign. 
5) The project must have local political support. 
We asked for a resolution or other written support 
from the appropriate city or county. 
6) The project must have strong support from local 
conservation groups, and from statewide groups if 
applicable. 
7) There must be an entity willing to operate and 
maintain the area once it is bought. 
Notes 
*Use caution 
*Avoid controversy 
*Research each proposed project carefully 
*Identify a reliable contact person for each project 
e 
You must be ABSOLUTELY CERTAIN that your 
petitions are in complete conformance with the law 
in your state. This includes the title, the type size, 
margin widths and the placement of different parts 
of the text on the petition. Have several people 
who know the regulations review the final text and 
layout of the pe- 
tition before you 
print them. If you 
do something 
wrong, all of your 
petitions could be 
considered invalid. 
Check and re- 
check, and be 
certain of the 
legality of every- 
thing that you do! 
The smallest 
d 
mistake could 
VO 
result in all of your 
petitions being 
thrown out. 
WLEDLIFE, COA SAL 
&) PAR KS) TIN PaVASInE 
Voz 
Resolving Environmental 
Disputes 
A survey of a decade of eco-mediation with an 
interesting appendix of case studies. —JB 
e 
STORM KING 
The dispute: Opposition to Consolidated Edison 
Company of New York’s plans to build a hydro- 
electric and pumped storage plant at the foot of 
Storm King Mountain in the Hudson River high- 
lands first arose when the Scenic Hudson Preser- 
vation Conference was formed late in 1963. Over 
the years, the issues involved in the dispute 
spread from simply whether the plant would unac- 
ceptably mar the scenic beauty of the Hudson to 
broad questions of the total effect of several utility 
plants on the water quality and fish life of the 
Hudson River. 
The process: After a decade and a half of litigation 
and administrative hearings, attorneys for the 
environmental groups and Consolidated Edison 
discussed negotiating face to face and, in March 
1979, asked Russell Train to mediate the dispute. 
Train spend several months laying the groundwork 
for negotiations and began them in August 1979. 
On December 18, 1980, 11 parties signed an 
agreement that ended the dispute. 
The result: Consolidated Edison forfeited its 
construction license for Storm King and turned the 
land over to the Palisades Interstate Parkway 
Commission. To protect striped bass and other 
fish species, the utilities agreed to establish a fish 
hatchery and to reduce, for 10 years, their with- 
drawals of water from the river during the summer 
months. They further agreed not to build any new 
power plants without cooling towers above the 
George Washington Bridge for 25 years, to endow 
a river research organization, and to reimburse 
legal fees to the environmental groups. In return 
for these concessions, EPA dropped its demand 
for expensive cooling towers at several of the 
existing plants, and the environmental groups 
dropped legal and administrative challenges 
against the utilities. 
A year after the settlement, New York State issued 
discharge permits, incorporating the terms of the 
mediated settlement, to the utilities. All aspects of 
the settlement have been 
implemented. 
Resolving Environmental 
Disputes, Gail Bingham 
1986; 284 pp.; $15 ($I7 post- 
paid) from: World Wildlife 
Fund, P.O. Box 4866, Hamp- 
den Station, Baltimore 
MD 21211; (301) 338-6951 
ERE 
Land-Saving Action 
The last decade has seen a tremendous expan- 
sion of private-sector preservation of open space 
lands. This book, with chapters by 29 experts, 
embodies the experience that ten years has 
produced, and will serve as a bible for anyone who 
loves a piece of land enough to want to find out 
how to save it. —Richard Nilsen 
Land-Saving Action 
Russell L. Brenneman 
and Sarah M. Bates, 
Editors; 1984; 250 pp. 
$24.95 ($26.95 postpaid) 
from: Island Press 
Box 7 
Covelo, CA 95482 
(800) 828-1302 **WEA 
s 
By 5 
a 
pai) 
af 
| 
5 
by 
Na 
Ss M 
By 
t 
q 
i 
Community support is vital in determining sur- 
rounding land uses. The uses of the land sur- 
rounding the preserved agricultural land are of 
vital concern. A single farming operation, no 
matter how well laid out and managed, faces 
tremendous odds without compatible neighbors. 
Nuisance ordinances outlawing livestock opera- 
tions and restricting spraying emerge in communi- 
ties where too many farms have turned into 
ranchettes and other homesites for city folk. Pro- 
tecting one parcel of agricultural land requires 
consideration of the guarantees that ensure that 
the surrounding land uses will stay compatible. 
Otherwise, that parcel is likely to become the pre- 
served open space for adjacent development. 
Wieser ac att SES ae EL ON Rel ian BONE OA 
IES 2 ae te 
PeaceNet/EcoNet 
PeaceNet, 
a computer messaging service, hosts 
over a hundred on-line conferences for peace and 
social activist groups: EcoNet (ecological issues), 
HomeoNet (a homeopathic doctors' conference), 
the National Freeze Campaign, the Christic 
Institute, the Central America Resource Network, 
the Center for Innovative Diplomacy, Institute for 
Security and Cooperation in Outer Space, etc. It’s 
worth joining not just for the news-postings and 
calendars of events (e.g. American Peace Test’s 
schedule of nuclear blasts at the Nevada test site), 
but because participating groups often use 
PeaceNet to administer themselves. It’s a treat to 
follow discussions of international issues, goals, 
strategies and tactics, and most times kibitzers 
can add their two cents. Openness is an important 
principle for many of these groups; PeaceNet 
makes that ideal both practicable and involving. 
(The system has limited-access sections and 
electronic mail facilities, too.) —Robert Horvitz 
EcoNet is an excellent environmental tool. Not 
only is it an on-line conference covering a wide 
range of environmental issues such as Global 
Warming, Acid Rain, Toxics, and Energy, it is also 
a great information resource. It gives listings of 
directories including The National Wildlife Federa- 
tion Directory and the Environmental Grantmakers 
Association Directory, and grant lists, and news 
reports from such groups as the Sierra Club and 
the International Union for Conservation of Nature. 
With over 2000 members, including most of the 
major environmental organizations in the U.S., it is 
a true conglomeration of ecology in action. 
—Susan Erkel Ryan 
PeaceNet/EcoNet, costs $10 per month, users 
get one free hour of peak time. Additional time is 
charged at $5 an hour off-peak time; $10 an 
hour peak time (7 am-6 pm, M-F, user's local 
time). From: PeaceNet, 3228 Sacramento St., 
San Francisco, CA 94115; (415) 923-0900 
