**WEA — Available from Whole Earth Access, see p. 2. 
Meeting the 
Expectations of the Land 
The title of this collection of essays about sustain- 
able agriculture conveys an apt reversal. A line 
from Robert Frost might help: “The land was ours 
before we were the land’s.” The ideas here are 
visionary in that they look both forward and 
backward in time, but lest you think the book 
advocates a retreat to agricultural animism, it is 
worth emphasizing that these ideas are also very 
practical. You won't find them in use on most 
American farms today because there the empha- 
sis has been on productivity and profits. 
Profits? Even if your news from the farm comes 
only from the TV, you know you can forget about 
“profits” in farming. And productivity? Sure, that’s 
there, but it is the same kind you find in a coal 
mine. When the coal is gone you shut it down and 
move on. When the topsoil is gone, or the soil is 
salted out from irrigation, where do you go? 
You go to a kind of agriculture that can sustain; 
not only the land, but also the life on it and in it, as 
well as the people who work it and those who 
depend on them for food. This book is full of clues 
to how that kind of agriculture will work, by people 
like Gene Logsdon, John Todd, and Gary Snyder. 
Richard Nilsen 
Meeting the Expectations of the Land (Essays 
in Sustainable Agriculture and Stewardship) 
Wes Jackson, Wendell Berry 
ee 
& Bruce Colman, Editors; 1984 
250 pp.; $12.50 ($14 postpaid) 
from: North Point Press 
850 Talbot Ave., Berkeley 
CA 94706; (415) 527-6260 **WEA 
Family Farming 
By most accounts the family farm is all but fin- 
ished. The food system of the future will be 
dominated by relatively few superfarms owned by 
multinational conglomerates. This is clearly the 
trend, but why? To the acolytes of agri-business 
the answer is “progress,” i.e. that inevitable march 
toward large-scale, computerized efficiency. In 
Family Farming, Marty Strange argues convinc- 
ingly to the contrary. According to Strange the 
decline of family-owned and -operated farms does 
not lie in their inefficiency, but in the public policies 
governing tax codes, land ownership, farm benefit 
and subsidy programs, and research priorities at 
land-grant universities. Peak efficiency in agricul- 
ture occurs at a relatively small scale: between 
$45,000 and $133,000 of gross sales. The very 
large farms, that have diligently farmed the tax 
code, are less resilient, less flexible, and operate 
with far less margin for error. They have also 
contributed substantially to the decline of rural 
environments and communities. The largest part 
of Family Farming is a detailed analysis of the 
economic and policy factors behind the evolution 
of U.S. Agriculture. 
Strange proposes to reconcile farm policy with 
traditional rural values. This requires public 
policies that reward good farming, not land 
speculation and carelessness. His suggestions 
include: an end to subsidies for capital investment; 
better production controls; a national land policy; 
regulation of input industries and commodity 
markets; and careful guidelines for agricultural 
research and technology. Sensible stuff. 
Family Farming is the best analysis I’ve seen of 
American agriculture. It is clear-headed, informa- 
tive, practical, and well-written. Strange has taken 
much of the mystery out of a complex subject. 
This is an honest book that acknowledges the 
mistakes and shortcomings of family farms while 
| once asked an Amish farmer who had only 
twenty-six acres why he didn’t acquire a bit more 
land. He looked around at his ten fine cows, his 
sons hoeing the corn with him, his spring water 
running continuously by gravity through house and 
barn, his few fat hogs, his sturdy buildings, his 
good wife heaping the table with food, his fine 
flock of hens, his plot of tobacco and acre of 
strawberries, his handmade hickory chairs (which 
he sold for all the extra cash he really needed), 
and he said, “Well, I’m just not smart enough to 
farm any more than this well.” | have a hunch no 
one could. —Gene Logsdon 
e 
Good farming is farming that presrves the earth 
and its network of life. Obviously, agriculture in- 
volves the rearranging of nature to bring it more in- 
to line with human desires, but it does not require 
exploiting, mining, or destroying the natural world. 
The need for agriculture also does not absolve us 
from the moral duty and the common-sense ad- 
vice to farm in an ecologically rational way. Good 
farming protects the land, even when it uses it. It 
does not knock down shelterbelts to squeeze a 
few more dollars from a field. It does not poison 
the animal creation wholesale to get rid of coyotes 
and bobcats. It does not drain entire rivers dry, 
causing irreversible damage to estuaries and 
aquatic ecosystems, in an uncontrolled urge to 
irrigate the desert. It does not tolerate the yearly 
loss of 200 tons of topsoil per acre from farms in 
the Palouse hills of eastern Washington. 
Those are the ways of violence. American 
agriculture of late, pushed by market 
forces and armed with unprecedented 
technology, has increasingly become a 
violent enterprise. —Donald Worster 
FARMING 45 
FRG 
AR 
ee a 
ey 
agAccess 
It takes considerable hubris to bill youself as The 
Agricultural Information Source, but that’s just 
what agAccess has grown to be. The 850 books in 
their catalog cover virtually every aspect of 
agriculture and related matters such as irrigation. 
Each is reviewed by an expert on the subject. Eco- 
righteousness is stressed. If a book isn’t in their 
catalog, it’s probably in their enormous data base. 
They can get you any ag book in print — eco- 
righteous or not — and will look for out-of-print 
ones too. They also deal ag-related software. For 
an appropriate stipend, they'll research a subject 
for you and get you together with consultants. 
Even the government comes to them for informa- 
tion. But perhaps the best part of this most useful 
and well-organized service is the agAccess 
bookstore in Davis, CA. There you can meet the 
congenial crew and the always-interesting custom- 
ers while you peruse the tasty offerings. Bet you 
don’t leave empty-handed even if you aren't a 
farmer; agAccess is a wonderful example of a 
business truly attuned to what people need. --JB 
agAccess 
Promising Fruits 
Catalog free from: 
of the Philippines 
ag Access 
Roberto E. Coronel 
1983 
P.O. Box 2008 
This fascinating book describes the durian and 
36 other noteworthy tropical fruits that have 
potential to contribute substantially to a trop- 
ical country's economy. Everything known 
about such provocatively named fruits as bal- 
imbing, tiessa and siniguelas is contained in 
this unique pomology resource. 508pp, soft. 
$36.00 
Davis, CA 95617 
(916) 756-7177 
UPHO001 
Spanish in the Field: 
Practical Spanish for Ranchers, Farmers or Vintners 
Clough, Comegys, & Saddler. 
1983 
Organized by agricultural topic- weather, 
soil, tools, machinery, chemicals, grapes, 
cotton, orchards, row crops, grains, etc.- these 
excellent California Spanish lessons will be 
arguing for their preservation. For those 
interested in sustainable agriculture, this 
is a plausible view of how we get from 
immensely helpful to those whose Spanish is 
limited, and will quickly make it possible for 
non-speakers to communicate. The labelled 
drawings are great for quick consultations. 
here to there 
—David Orr 
The book comes alone, or with a handy 3,000 
: 
i 
word pocket dictionary containing well 
e 
detailed vocabulary lists, and a set of four 
A Faustian bargain has been made 
between the use of the technology and 
the impersonal market. The bargain is 
this: In return for the splendid increase in 
production made possible by this technology, the 
producer must accept less money for each unit 
sold, and share the rewards of increased output 
with those who produce the technologies. 
e 
Agriculture can't live up to a public standard of 
moral purity that is higher than that expected of 
the rest of our society. If farmers are expected to 
steward natural resources even when doing so is 
not in their immediate self-interest, the rest of us 
must be willing to sacrifice the immediate benefits 
of cheap food for the long-range benefits of a 
sustainable food system. If we expect farmers to 
conserve resources without providing sufficient 
economic reward for doing so, we only shift an 
impossible burden onto their shoulders. Farmers 
should not have the right to exploit land, but 
cannot resist the market forces that encourage 
them to do so without the support of the rest of us. 
The market alone should not determine the use of 
resources, and it alone should not determine the 
economic fate of farmers, either. Public funds 
must be committed to support conservation. 
Family Farming (A New Economic Vision) 
Marty Strange; 1988; 311 pp. 
$8.95 ($10.95 postpaid) from: 
University of Nebraska Press 
901 North 17th Street, 327 Ne- 
braska Hall, Lincoln, NE 68588- 
0520; (402) 472-3584 **WEA 
cassette tapes to speed up the leaming process 
and aid pronunciation. Highly recommended. 
248 pages, softcover. 
PAN003 - book only - $19.95 PAN004 - book, dictionary, & four tapes - $49.95 
Farm Supplies 
There are lots of good mail-order sources for farm 
and garden supplies. Here are four of our favorites. 
—Susan Erkel Ryan 
Gardener Supply 
(Innovative Gardening Solutions) 
Catalog & Gardening Bulletin free from: 
128 Intervale Road 
Burlington, VT 05401 
(802) 863-1700 
Harmony Farm Supply 
Catalog $2 (refundable with purchase) from: 
P.O. Box 460 
Graton, CA 95444 
(707) 823-9125 
The Necessary Trading Company 
Catalog $2 (refundable with purchase) from: 
P.O. Box 305 
New Castle, VA 24127 
(800) 447-5354 
Peaceful Valley Farm Supply 
Catalog $2 (refundable with purchase) from: 
P.O. Box 2209 
Grass Valley, CA 95945 
(916) 272-4769 
