Bigger, finer, slower 
Start with the city. 
In Christopher Alexander’s New Theory of Urban 
Design, reviewed on p. 78, is a guiding rule: “Every 
increment of construction must be made in such a way as 
to heal the city.” 
It’s not hard to do that. When it’s done, even just a 
little, people in the cities — where civilization’s 
decisions are made — can see the benefits of scaling 
up the rule: “. . . as to heal the bioregion;” “. . 
. as to heal 
the Earth.” 
For the last three decades one of the most successful 
(and least lauded) joint efforts of government, local 
business, philanthropists, environmentalists, and 
volunteers has been the preservation and reviving of 
historic city centers. Even government sponsored 
low-cost housing works in those neighborhoods, if — 
as in Charleston, South Carolina — it is salted around 
in rehabilitated old buildings and scattered new 
buildings designed to fit in with the old. 
Paradoxically, when you increase the density of urban 
activity, and mix together working and dwelling 
places, then mass transit also can work, and the 
general amenity level goes up. 
One of the attractions of well-preserved, lively cities is 
What’s an Ecolog? 
Old friends will note that the Ecolog resembles the 
original Whole Earth Catalogs from twenty years ago. 
It’s equally big and floppy, with similar spirit, intent, 
and utility. What's different is the focus — in this case 
on environmental and ecological matters. But 
attempting to include everything in one huge paper 
Catalog is no longer practical (although we’ve made a 
start at doing that electronically with the 1988 
Electronic Whole Earth Catalog. See p. 127). There 
were hard choices to be made; it’s literally the nature 
of things that nearly everything is in some way 
involved with the environment. 
This Ecolog is a metaphorical snapshot of some of the 
interesting action in applied ecology. Like any 
snapshot, it can’t show more than a freeze-frame of a 
scene that is actually seething. As is our custom, we 
review what’s deemed important and interesting by 
our staff and our friendly experts, many of whom are 
readers of our quarterly magazine, Whole Earth 
Review (see p. 127). We tend to show typical — but 
not all — examples of a breed. If your wonderful 
enterprise or one you love isn’t here, it’s probably 
because we aren't covering that subject this time, we 
can’t show ‘em all, we thought everybody already 
knew, or — horrors — we missed it (let us know)). 
Following our Whole Earth tradition, the Ecolog does 
not attend to what’s wrong in the world — a host of 
other publications (and your intuition) do that very 
well. Nor do we give bad reviews to things we don’t 
like. Negative reviews tend to focus on how smart the 
reviewer is, and just bring further publicity to things 
best left to decompose quietly. Positive reviews 
introduce readers to the good stuff, which is what 
we're all here for. Items are selected for review 
because they’re exemplary, basic, unique, unproven- 
but-worth-watching, or combinations thereof. We are 
FOREWORD/INTRODUCTION 3 
that they give a surface 
of familiarity over the 
seething, surging 
currents of change in 
technology and com- 
merce that show no sign 
of settling down in the 
coming decades. 
Well-preserved, living 
rural landscapes and 
wildernesses offer the 
same comfort. Rafting a 
wild river makes the 
body sing with the old 
dangers, gives the body a sure sense of itself and frees 
it to explore unfamiliar hazards such as immersion in 
computerized “virtual reality.” 
Stewart Brand 
The extremely new and the deeply old inform and 
cure and maintain each other. 
A direct and beneficial product of the 45-year Cold 
War, now over, was the globalizing of human 
attention. Fear of nuclear war led to the space race 
and the photos from space of Earth that the Whole 
Earth Catalogs have been named after since 1968. 
Fear of “Nuclear Winter” led to studies of the 
not interested in political 
correctness of any sort. 
You may have noticed 
that bookstores are 
stacked high with Earth- 
Saving fare these days. 
We looked at ’em all (up 
until our July deadline, 
that is), then made sure 
ours isn’t just another 
verse of 99 (Recyclable) 
Bottles Of Beer On The 
Wall. We particularly 
celebrate those individu- 
als and groups undertaking work that is essential, but 
initially unlikely to attract the sponsorship of busi- 
ness, government, and universities. With few excep- 
tions, that’s where the real pioneering is taking place. 
As usual, we gleefully report successful enterprises, 
things that work, and even some brave tries. 
J. Baldwin 
We note with satisfaction (and an occasional wry 
cackle), that many causes we’ve championed in past 
Whole Earth Catalogs are now mainstream or getting 
close to it. When we started twenty-one years ago, 
phenomena such as photovoltaics, commercial 
organic food raising, ecological restoration, and grade 
school ecology classes were rare. Replacing confronta- 
tion with cooperation was considered a sellout to the 
blackhats. Now it’s widely realized that the “enemy” 
is hard to define without self-incrimination — the 
contents of the Exxon Valdez oil tanker was enroute 
to our gas tanks. In 1970, it was almost unthinkable 
that a private, environmentally oriented organization 
like RMI (p. 57) would soon be advising multinational 
corporations, the United States Government, and the 
Kremlin (simultaneously!) on energy and resource 
atmosphere that produced concerns about 
Global Warming and an unprecedented 
degree of international collaboration on the 
most fundamental of environmental issues. 
With the passing of the threat of nuclear 
annihilation (though probably an increased 
chance of localized nuclear warfare), 
people lifted the iron curtain from their 
sense of future time. Future generations 
became something to think seriously about 
and work for. As the year 2000 
approaches, people are making the crucial 
jump from thinking in decades to thinking 
in centuries forward. 
Costa Ricans refer to their rain forests as 
cathedrals of the 21st Century, requiring 
generations of work to preserve and 
enhance. The satisfactions of huge, slow projects like 
that are enormous. The actual process consists of 
countless detailed, local actions of refinement, each 
rewarding in itself — for its own sake and for its 
reference to the larger task. 
This is a book of tools for saving the world at the only 
scale it can be done, one hand at a time. 
—Stewart Brand 
(Founder and editor of Whole Earth Catalogs from 1968 
to 1985) 
conservation. And who would have 
expected to see the day when realty 
interests and the Chamber of Commerce 
helped pass environmental laws such as 
Proposition 70 (p. 104)? This is no time for 
smuggery, though. As one of our friends — 
it may have been Steve Baer (Zomeworks 
p- 53) — once said, “If you’re not in the 
Sears catalog, you're probably irrelevant.” 
Metaphor again, but close enough. 
The question is whether our best efforts at 
what is still regrettably dubbed 
environmentalism will “make it to Sears” or 
otherwise sufficiently affect mainstream 
worldwide thought in time. Innovation 
isn’t enough; there’s inertia to be overcome. 
You'd think that the undisputed success of 
the energy-saving, natural-everything 
Village Homes neighborhood (p. 74) would have 
cloned imitators by now, but it hasn’t. Maybe that’s 
because it was hard to accomplish, like all complex 
“solutions.” Simple solutions always leave out 
something important; slogans like “Sustainable 
Development” are dangerous. Any solutions are 
going to be a bit messy and incremental. Uncounted 
ignorant personal acts brought us to the present 
situation; countless personal actions of a well- 
informed world citizenry are the only way out. 
It takes high spirits to do that in the face of 
accelerating degradation and an apparently 
increasing kakistocracy (government by a society’s 
worst elements). The Ecolog shows some spirited 
folks at work. It’s high time for more to join the fray. 
There’s plenty to do. Professional recycler Linda 
Christopher put it neatly to local university students: 
“The goal isn’t just a successful program, we want it to 
be the way people normally do things around here!” 
—J. Baldwin (—JB) 
