98 VALUES 
Wey: 
Look what T found / 
Fy) 
By / 
With all this 
mess.-. 
A Sand County Almanac 
The most important book on ethics ever written on 
American soil — honest, clear, graceful, superbly 
crafted — It begins: “There are some who can live 
without wild things, and some who cannot. These 
essays are the delights and dilemmas of one who 
cannot.” For Leopold, like Thoreau, human nature 
and nature’s nature are inseparable natures and 
anything worth saying must be born from both. So 
the Almanac exposes, reflects on, and strays into 
“values” that humans might cherish but it never 
strays too far from wildness, that teacher of many 
minds. In short, this is the bible of “oikos-logos” — 
the governing principle of our communal home — 
“ecology.” —Peter Warshall 
@ 
Thinking Like a Mountain 
A deep chesty bawl echoes from rimrock to 
rimrock, rolls down the mountain, and fades into 
the far blackness of the night. It is an outburst of 
A Sand County Almanac 
Aldo Leopold; 1968; 226 pp. 
$7.95 ($10.45 postpaid) from: 
Oxford University Press, 16-00 
Pollitt Drive, Fairlawn, NJ 07410 
(800) 451-7556 
%*WEA 
wild defiant sorrow, and of contempt for all the 
adversities of the world. 
Every living thing (and perhaps many a dead one 
as well) pays heed to that call. To the deer itis a 
reminder of the way of all flesh, to the pine a 
forecast of midnight scuffles and of blood upon the 
snow, to the coyote a promise of gleanings to 
come, to the cowman a threat of red ink at the 
bank, to the hunter a challenge of fang against 
bullet. Yet behind these obvious and immediate 
hopes and fears there lies a deeper meaning, 
known only to the mountain itself. Only the 
mountain has lived long enough to listen objec- 
tively to the howl of a wolf. 
Filters Against Folly 
Twenty years ago, Garrett Hardin published a 
deadly essay titled “The Tragedy of the Com- 
mons.” In it, he showed irrefutably that individual 
citizens attempting to better their lot by adding one 
more sheep to the commonly owned pasture 
would inevitably bring ruin to all. This concept 
opposed the view held by many economists that 
the sum of individual strivings for advancement will 
benefit society as a whole. Hardin has aroused 
further controversy by advising that the U.S. not 
send aid to countries with rapidly expanding 
populations, claiming that such aid only brings 
worse problems later. “We Are The World” funa- 
raising isn't necessarily a good idea. 
This book further elucidates the idea of “com- 
mons” — it’s easy to conceive of many that have 
little to do with sheep. More important, Hardin 
offers us a lesson in critical thinking so that we 
may be better able to avert lurking ecological ca- 
tastrophe. He suggests that we subject incoming 
information from all sources — friend and foe — to 
three filters: Literacy — what's really being said; 
Numeracy — insisting upon quantification and 
careful interpretation of numbers; and Ecolacy — 
examining the long-run complex effects of our ac- 
Filters Against Folly, Garrett 
Hardin; 1986; 256 pp.; $8.95 
($10.45 postpaid) from: 
Penguin USA/Cash Sales 
120 Woodbine Street 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621 
(800) 526-0275 
WEA 
tions. Even though I’ve been analyzing information 
in this way for some time now (1! base a college 
course | teach on Hardin’s ideas), seeing the con- 
cepts put so clearly and accessibly is most helpful 
in cutting the crap. You may find likewise. —JB 
The Marxist system is critically sensitive to scale. 
Hutterites found this out long ago when they 
noticed that as their community grew in size, the 
relative numbers of goldbricks increased. Workers 
found excuses for going into town “to get a part for 
the tractor” or whatnot, lingering for a long time 
before returning. What were at first the actions of a 
few became the actions of many, as some of the 
hardest workers decided they were unwilling to 
carry the burden of the whole community. Altruism 
diminished as envy and resentment took over. 
Instead of working, people argued about working. 
Exercised abilities declined; expressed needs in- 
creased. 
The answer, the Hutterites found, lay in controlling 
the scale. As long as the community was less than 
some apparently critical number (about 100 to 
150), the Marxist distribution system worked. 
Above that not precisely defined number the 
system failed, and failed ever more badly as the 
number increased. So the Hutterites adopted a 
development program that plans for the automatic 
splitting of a community into two as soon as its 
numbers have doubled. One farming community 
becomes two, two become four, and so on, at 
intervals of about fifteen years. So long as abilities 
and needs are determined within a really small 
community, commonism works. 
Small is Beautiful 
| doubt if Americans have been so influ- 
enced by printed eloquence since 
Thomas Paine’s Common Sense 
helped focus our founding independ- 
ence. Schumacher is fighting a similar 
oppression, only this time we colonized 
ourselves, as he reveals by subtitling 
his book “Economics as if People 
Mattered.” 
The wonder of Schumacher’s work is 
his eminent practicality, based on his 
years with the British Coal Board. 
With good sense and a mature spiritual- 
ity, Schumacher comes on like John 
Henry against the mega-machine, sure 
that he will win, and he is. 
—Stewart Brand 
Small is Beautiful 
E. F. Schumacher 
1989; 352 pp.; $9.95 ($13.45 
postpaid) from: Harper & Row 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512-1596 
(800) 638-3030 
%*WEA 
As Gandhi said, the poor of the world cannot be 
helped by mass production, only by production by 
the masses. The system of mass production, 
based on sophisticated, highly capital-intensive, 
high energy-input dependent, and human labour- 
saving technology, presupposes that you are al- 
ready rich, for a great deal of capital investment is 
needed to establish one single workplace. The 
system of production by the masses mobilises the 
priceless resources which are possessed by all 
human beings, their clever brains and skilful hands, 
and supports them with first-class tools. The 
technology of mass production is inherently violent, 
ecologically damaging, self-defeating in terms of 
non-renewable resources, and stultifying for the 
human person. The technology of production by 
the masses, making use of the best of modern 
knowledge and experience, is conducive to 
decentralisation, compatible with the laws of 
ecology, gentle in its use of scarce resources, and 
designed to serve the human person instead of 
making him the servant of machines. | have named 
it intermediate technology to signify that it is vastly 
superior to the primitive technology of bygone ages 
but at the same time much simpler, cheaper, and 
freer than the supertechnology of the rich. One can 
also call it self-help technology, or democratic or 
people’s technology — a technology to which 
everybody can gain admittance and which is not 
reserved to those already rich and powerful. 
e 
The cultivation and expansion of needs is the 
antithesis of wisdom. It is also the antithesis of 
freedom and peace. Every increase of needs 
tends to increase one’s dependence on outside 
forces over which one cannot have control, and 
therefore increases existential fear. 
The type of realism which behaves as if the good, 
the true, and the beautiful were too vague and 
subjective to be adopted as the highest aims of 
social or individual life, or were the automatic spin- 
off of the successful pursuit of wealth and power, 
has been aptly called “crackpot realism.” Every- 
where people ask: “What can | actually do?” The 
answer is as simple as it is disconcerting: we can, 
each of us, work to put our own inner house in 
order. The guidance we need for this work can not 
be found in science or technology, the value of 
which utterly depends on the ends they serve; but 
it can still be found in the traditional wisdom of 
mankind. 
e
