Simply stated, the (Gaia) hypothesis 
says that the surface of the Earth, 
which we’ve always considered to be 
the environment of life, is really part 
of life. The blanket of air — the tropo- 
sphere — should be considered a 
circulatory system, produced and 
sustained by life. —Lynn Margulis 
— From Elmwood Institute (an ecological think tank founded by 
Fritjof Capra, 415/845-4595) Newsletter, Volume 5, Number 2. 
The Ages of Gaia 
James Lovelock has upgraded his notion of the 
Earth as living organism from hypothesis (testable 
speculation) to theory (persuasive explanation). 
One might have expected him to modify its radical 
nature at this stage. He did not. Instead, in this 
book he extends its ramifications, arguing convinc- 
ingly that Earth’s personality — its ocean charac- 
ter, the ingenious delivery of its water as rain over 
dry land, its transparent, blue-air skin, and per- 
haps the very mold of the land itself — are all 
caused by life. In the biography he tells of Gaia, 
life is not a fragile weakling, but a hardy, indomi- 
table force that awakens Gaia herself. This is 
science writing at its best, and the boldest earth- 
science book in decades. 
—Kevin Kelly 
The Ages of Gaia 
James Lovelock 
1988; 252 pp. 
$16.95 postpaid from: 
W.W. Norton & Co., Inc. 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
(800) 233-4830 
WEA 
At the risk of having my membership card of the 
Friends of the Earth withdrawn, | say that only by 
pollution do we survive. We animals pollute the air 
with carbon dioxide, and the vegetation pollutes it 
with oxygen. The pollution of one is the meat of 
the other. 
Much more probably, “Earth’s fragile shield” is a 
myth. The ozone layer certainly exists today, but it 
is a flight of fancy to believe that its presence is 
essential for life. My first job as a graduate was at 
the National Institute for Medical Research in 
London. My boss was the courteous and distin- 
guished generalist, Robert Bourdillon. 
| was 
privileged to watch, and later participate in, the 
experiments that he and my colleague, Owen 
Lidwell, made as they tried to kill bacteria by 
exposing them to unfiltered ultraviolet radiation. 
Our practical objective was the prevention of cross 
infection in hospital wards and operating theatres. 
We were seeking a way to kill airborne bacteria 
and so prevent the spread of infection. Naked 
washed bacteria of some species, when sus- 
pended in the air as fine droplets, were easily 
destroyed by ultraviolet. 
It was impressive, 
though, how small a film of organic matter would 
almost entirely protect even these sensitive 
species. 
In the real world outside the laboratory, 
bacteria do not exist suspended in distilled water 
or a Saline solution. 
In their normal habitats, 
bacteria are clothed in mucus secretions or the 
organic and mineral constituents of their environ- 
ment. They do not live naked anymore than we 
do. Many practical trials were made before it was 
realised that ultraviolet radiation is not an effective 
method of eliminating from the hospital environ- 
ment the tender fragile pathogens. 
It takes almost 
no clothing to stop ultraviolet radiation. 
Gaia: An Atlas of Planet Mangement 
This book is the result of an ambitious project to 
map and analyse the effects of human activities on 
the planet. Though it was one of the first attempts 
at a general overview, the data-backed, clear 
analyses remain valid today. The book is divided 
into major areas: Land, Ocean, Elements, Evolu- 
tion, Humankind, Civilization, and Management. 
Each chapter deftly outlines the present situation 
and how it got that way, illustrating everything with 
photographs and big, colorful drawings. What we 
had better do next is dis- 
cussed calmly but candidly, 
letting the chips fall where 
they may. This realistic 
attitude, unusual in scholarly 
books, bestows a credible 
urgency to academic and 
layperson alike. I’ve not seen 
the Big Picture more accessi- 
bly presented. 
—JB 
*\ Population 
We face a situation in which 
the mega-corporations are 
coming to wield virtual 
SR 6 ic 
feriizer 
monopoly power over key 
Zz Sake 
sectors of the food trade. And 
their desire for more control 
over our food-producing 
systems is expanding even 
further. Since 1970, a few giant petro-corporations 
have quietly taken over more than 400 small seed 
businesses; businesses that hitherto produced 
seeds with vast variety to suit diverse environ- 
ments, tastes, and price ranges. By controlling the 
production of seeds, a petro-corporation can breed 
crops that need extra-large dollops of synthetic 
fertilizer, pesticides, and other petroleum-based 
additives, regardless of more desirable trends for 
future agriculture (viz. away from reliance on 
fossil-fuel inputs). What happens when the oil 
wells run dry? The corporation answers that it will 
tackle those problems as they arise, but mean- 
while it is a private profit-making concern, not a 
public charity. 
Probably even more insidious in its ultimately 
grain land per capita 
& 
Areaofharvested 
Cfo | 
GAIA (An Atlas of 
Planet Management) 
Norman Myers 
1984; 272 pp. 
$22.95 ($24.95 postpaid) 
from: Doubleday & Co. 
P.O. Box 5071 
Des Plaines, IL 
60017-5071 
(800) 223-6834 3 WEA 
EATING OIL. Since 1950, population growth has reduced 
grain land per head by a third, but per capita fertilizer use 
has risen five-fold. Grain production per 
capita rose steadily until the 1973 oil 
crisis, then leveled off. 
In 1983, it actually fell. 
4.66 billion \ 
3 2.51 billion 
1950 
detrimental impact on agriculture is the support 
provided by giant corporations to the “farmers’ 
lobby” in developed nations. The Common 
Agricultural Policy of the EEC causes govern- 
ments to pay out $14 billion a year to encourage 
farmers to produce butter mountains and milk 
lakes. Similarly, American farmers are subsidized 
to the tune of around $40 billion a year. One 
“solution” proposed for these grotesque surpluses 
is to turn the milk lakes into powdered milk, and 
feed it back to the cows that gave the milk in the 
first place! By contrast, the World Bank estimates 
that the sum required to supply Third World 
subsistence farmers with the means to lift them- 
selves out of self-reinforcing poverty is only $8 
billion a year. 
, 
Mind and Nature 
Mind and Nature addresses the hidden, though 
unoccult, dynamics of life — the misapprehension 
of which threatens to unhorse our civilization. 
Bateson doesn’t have all the answers, he just has 
better questions — elegant, mature, embarrassing 
questions that tweak the quick of things. 
One of the themes that emerges is the near 
identity between the process of evolving and the 
process of learning, and the ongoing responsibility 
they have for each other which includes our re- 
sponsibility, which we have shirked. We shirked it 
through ignorance. Mind and Nature dispels that. 
B 
—Stewart Brand 
It is a nontrivial matter that we are almost always 
unaware of trends in our changes of state. There 
is a quasi-scientific fable that if you can get a frog 
to sit quietly in a saucepan of cold water, and if 
you then raise the temperature of the water very 
slowly and smoothly so that there is no moment 
marked to be the moment at which the frog should 
jump, he will never jump. He will get boiled. Is the 
human species changing its own environment with 
slowly increasing pollution and rotting its mind with 
slowly deteriorating religion and education in such 
a saucepan? 
e 
Human sense organs can receive only news of 
difference, and the differences must be coded into 
events in time (i.e. into changes) in order to be 
Mind and Nature (A Necessary 
Unity) Gregory Bateson, 
N 
1972, 1988; 272 pp. 
$9.95 ($11.95 postpaid) from: 
Bantam Books 
414 E. Golf Road 
Des Moines, IL 60016; (800) 223-6834 4 WEA 
perceptible. Ordinary static differences that remain 
constant for more than a few seconds become 
perceptible only by scanning. 
e 
Ross Ashby long ago pointed out that no system 
(neither computer nor organism) can produce 
anything new unless the system contains some 
source of the random. In the computer, this will be 
a random-number generator which will ensure that 
the “seeking,” trial-and-error moves of the machine 
will ultimately cover all the possibilities of the set to 
be explored. 
e 
| do not believe that the original purpose of the 
rain dance was to make “it” rain. | suspect that that 
is a degenerate misunderstanding of a much more 
profound religious need: to affirm membership in 
what we may call the ecological tautology, the 
eternal verities of life and environment. There’s 
always a tendency — almost a need — to vulgar- 
ize religion, to turn it into entertainment or politics 
or magic or “power.” 
