“Podmobile”: 
Toyota Previa 4x4 
typifies what will 
probably be the 
family car of the 
future, needs only 
airbags and a 
washable interior 
to be the champion 
all-purpose vehicle. 
Competition will 
challenge it soon. 
is just no excuse for interiors that lack bags on 
both sides as standard equipment. Anti-lock 
brakes (ABS) should also be standard equipment 
on all cars, but they aren't. If the model you want 
doesn’t have them standard or as an option, I’d 
just say no until they are, and I’d let the manufac- 
turer know that. 
What about optional equipment? It certainly is a 
pleasure to zip down the open road in cool comfort 
without having your ears buffeted loose, especially 
on long trips where fatigue can affect driver alert- 
ness. I’ve experimented to check claims that air 
conditioning eats less fuel than riding with the 
still regard concern for efficiency and environment 
as an unwelcome and unnecessary fad. For others, 
it's a challenge and an accepted responsbility. 
One of the better eco-cars is Volvo’s LCP (for Light 
Component Project) 2000. Like similar efforts from 
Renault, Citroen, Peugeot, and Toyota, it got some 
mid-80s press, and then was forgotten as oil prices 
fell from the high levels of the “energy crisis” years. 
Figuring that waste is always stupid and environ- 
mentally despicable, | present the LCP 2000 as an 
example of what we could have right now if Volvo 
(and of course, their competitors) were convinced 
the demand was there. Let’s see what this machine 
offers: 
Statistics show that a typical car is used most often 
to carry less than two people through an urban 
area at an average speed of less than 35 miles per 
hour. For this duty, Volvo designed a car about the 
size, shape, and utility of current small hatchbacks. 
The only obvious difference is that the individually 
folding back seats face to the rear for added safety. 
That novel configuration allows a mid-car trans- 
verse, hollow bulkhead that protects the fuel tank, 
and provides unusually good resistance to the side 
impacts so common in urban intersection collisions. 
Crash protection has been very well worked out — 
not only as a Volvo tradition, but because a car so 
extraordinarily light (1555 lbs — far less than a VW 
Bug) must be very carefully designed if it is to pro- 
tect its occupants. Safety (and comfort) is also 
enhanced by the usual European high standards of 
suspension, steering and braking. A 90s version 
would doubtless have airbags. 
Of course the car sips rather than slurps. Volvo 
claims 56 miles per gallon, city, 81 mpg on long 
trips, and a combined figure of 65 mpg; certainly 
cause for applause.. The best mileage occurs at 40 
mph. At that common urban pace, you could 
expect an astounding 100 mpg! Moreover, the 
high-efficiency diesel will accept a diet chosen from 
a wide range of fuels. The 
press demonstration car 
ran on rapeseed oil! (and 
smelled like a pizza parlor 
while doing so, according to 
one reporter. But that’s 
likely to be solved with a bit 
more development). You 
might think that a tiny diesel 
would be a noisy slug that 
Volvo's LCP 2000 
eco-car is much 
less environmen- 
tally degrading 
than current auto- 
mobiles; gets up to 
100 mpg, yetisa 
sassy performer. 
windows open in a modern, aerodynamic car. 
Verdict: in town, air gobbles the gas. At high 
speeds, open windows cost more fuel. In any 
case, buying a white or other light-colored car will 
reduce the need for air conditioning: On a sunny 
day, the interior temperature difference between a 
black car and an identical white one is about 37 
degrees F. Something else to consider: air condi- 
tioner service is a leading source of ozone-hole- 
causing CFC gases. 
Automatic transmissions use more fuel than a 
skillfully-driven stick shift, but the difference is 
much less than it used to be. A good automatic will 
had to be flogged down the road with the gearlever. 
Not so. Volvo designers realized that the public 
would not joyfully accept a car that wasn’t refined 
and sassy. The machine is, in fact, something of a 
hotrod; its 0-to-60 mph time of 11 seconds is better 
than the average of the current car fleet. Top speed 
is about 110 mph. (Cars with escargoic top speeds 
are unpleasant and unsafe because they lack the 
power for brisk hill-climbing and passing.) An 
efficient CVT type automatic transmission has been 
| 
developed for later versions of the car, making it 
even more acceptable and easy to use. 
Volvo also considered environmental effects when 
materials were chosen. A significant portion of the 
car is magnesium obtained from seawater by a 
process far less destructive than mining. The entire 
car is engineered to resist deterioration by corro- 
sion, a principal cause of premature failure. Work 
has been done on schemes that eliminate the need 
for spray painting and its inevitable pollution. The 
car has also been designed for easy recycling of 
materials and components when it finally does wear 
out or meets a less gentle end. 
Volvo’s designers have even thought of the workers 
who must make the thing. For instance, the roof is 
applied last, so that the interior can be installed 
without people having to struggle upside down in 
a contorted, physically damaging position. That re- 
duces mistakes and labor time, increases profits, 
and helps keep the price down to acceptable levels. 
Simplified production methods also reduce the 
need for huge, centralized factories and their 
unpleasant social and environmental side effects. 
Aren't there any negative aspects to all this? 
Well, of course there remain the usual 
recalcitrant problems always salient where 
automobiles are in use; this car just reduces a 
lot of them. On the other hand, if a fleet of LCP 
2000s replaced a major portion of the U.S. auto 
fleet now in use, there would be little need to 
import oil, there would be a big reduction of all 
manner of pollution, including the sort that 
causes global warming and acid rain, and there 
would be a great savings in raw materials and 
the environmental degradation that accompanies 
their extraction. That’s not bad, considering that 
most people, including you and me, are not going 
to quit driving until they are forced to by very dire 
circumstances indeed. 
Now for the big question: when can we buy one of 
AUTOMOBILES 69 
equal a stick in town, and average about 2 miles per 
gallon less on the road. Check the now-trustable 
window sticker. Few drivers really need an auto- 
matic, but it can’t be denied that a slushpump eases 
driving in congested traffic. Four-wheel drive is a 
boon if you must drive a lot in snow or other difficult 
conditions, but it costs significantly more to buy, 
maintain, and feed. It’s now an option on a variety of 
cars (including little ones like the Subaru Justy) as 
well as minivans and pickups. Less ambiguously 
worthwhile options include multi-adjustable driver's 
seat, intermittent wipers, rear window wash/wipe/ 
defrost, and full-size spare tire. I'd avoid turbo 
models; most have proven to be hungry for both fuel 
and maintenance. You don’t need one for good 
performance, either. 
If you can, I'd put off a new car purchase a year or 
so (plus another year to let new models work out 
the bugs). What’s coming? Lots more minivans, 
many of them notably superior to the current crop. 
Toyota’s pricey Previa represents the new genera- 
tion, with ABS, fulltime four-wheel drive and, egad, 
respectable handling. (Though shamefully, air bags 
aren't even an option.) | see such “podmobiles” 
taking over as the standard family car. Empty truck 
“tin bin” versions of domestic minivans are less 
expensive, and lend themselves to purpose- 
(continued) 
Rear seats face backwards for safety, fold for 35 
cu. ft. of cargo. Big lid gives easy access. A car 
much like this could be produced today, at 
normal prices. 
these things? Answer: Not for awhile. Volvo insists 
that this machine was not built as a prototype of a 
production model. Its purpose was to test materi- 
als, designs, manufacturing techniques and public 
reaction. Yet it is obvious that an automobile very 
much like this one could be in production in three 
to five years. (It takes time to develop a compli- 
cated network of suppliers and production facili- 
ties, especially one that is not based on current 
practice.) It also takes money. The design and 
production apparatus of the Ford Taurus, for 
instance, took several billion dollars. 
A company 
the size of Volvo can’t handle that sort of outlay 
without assistance, and that won’t come without 
the assurance of vigorous demand. 
Nasty remarks claiming that Volvo “refuses” to 
make this car are not in order. In fact, Volvo and 
other forward-looking firms should be applauded 
for developing their eco-cars and the new sense of 
corporate responsibility that made them possible. 
Now we know what we can have, if only we’d ask. 
The next move is ours. —JB 
You can let Volvo know what you think of their 
car by writing Bob Austin at Volvo of America 
Corporation, Rockleigh, New Jersey, 07647; 
(201) 768-7300. 
