94 ECONOMICS 
ES 
Ee 
The Next Economy 
Economic civilization is going around a corner the 
like of which it’s never seen before. This is the 
only guidebook so far. Customers and citizens and 
adaptive businesses are leading the way. Govern- 
ments and major corporations are following. 
Where we come out is better. The now waning 
Mass Economy amassed fabulous wealth. The 
emerging Information Economy may not be so 
opulent, but it presents greater opportunity for 
wholeness and happiness. 
Because Hawken is a businessman — the only 
economist who is (Smith and Hawken tools, p. 41) 
— his writing has a street savvy you find nowhere 
else (except Peter Drucker). His economics is 
rooted in the individual. It speaks clearly to 
individual understanding and gives good counsel 
for individual behavior — “how to invest your life” 
— which in turn benefits the commonweal as well 
as the individual. —Stewart Brand 
The Next Economy 
Paul Hawken; 1983; 242 pp. 
$3.95 ($5.95 postpaid) from 
Random House 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
(800) 726-0600 WEA 
In a informative economy, we change from an 
affluent to an influent society. lf you are affluent, 
goods and services flow toward you; if you are 
influent, the information contained within goods 
flows into you. An affluent society may possess an 
opulent and abundant amount of goods, but that 
does not mean it will be able to utilize, appreciate, 
and maintain them. An influent society will have 
less, but its relationship to what it has will be more 
involved and concerned; people will take care of 
what they have, and what they have will mean 
more to them. In other words, an affluent society 
amasses goods, while an influent society proc- 
esses the information within goods. 
® 
The informative economy requires more intelli- 
gence from everyone — management, labor, 
consumers, governments. Those who do not 
become learners again, regardless of age or rank, 
_will find themselves at an increasing disadvantage 
as the informative economy takes root. 
The Wall Street Journal showed two different 
energy forecasts. The first was the Exxon/Shell/ 
CIA model used in the mid-to-late seventies that 
projected inelastic energy demand clashing with 
limited supply, a forecast that would result in 
soaring energy prices. The second model was a 
simple supply-and-demand curve, in which the 
rising price of a commodity lowers demand while 
simultaneously drawing forth more supplies . 
The Journal cited an editorial printed five years 
earlier that said the free market would solve the 
energy problem if left to its own workings. And so 
it has. 
EXXON / SHELL/ CIA FORECAST 
Quantity 
Quantity 
SUPPLY-AND-DEMAND CURVE 
(ECONOMiICcs 101) 
{Sap UaDAMRNME SasaleT Gt SRS UE ak bb A 
For the Common Good 
An economist and a theologian get together in this 
disturbing book. They give the related causes of 
world economic and environmental problems a 
good shake, and make conventional economics 
look rather odd while doing so. Could all those 
theoreticians and makers of policy be so blind? 
And that’s what’s so disturbing. Daly and Cobb are 
essentially correct in their analysis and proposed 
solutions. The question is, how are the changes to 
be made when the Powers That Be don’t particu- 
larly care to make the changes? Now that all this 
has been so nicely laid out and discussed, what's 
the next move? After all, in 1929, greedy folks 
chose to bring down the entire system rather than 
mend their ways. Easily read, and rather scary. 
—JB 
For the Common Good 
(Redirecting the Economy 
Toward Community, the 
Environment, and a Sustain- 
able Future), Herman E. 
Daly and John B. Cobb, Jr. 
1989; 482 pp.; $24.95 
($27.50 postpaid) from: 
Putnam Publishing, 390 
Murray Hill Parkway, East 
Rutherford, NJ 07073; (800) 631-8571 
WEA 
How can we guard against misplaced concreteness 
in economics? For one thing, we could warn 
students about it in the early chapters of economic 
principles texts, as we already do for the fallacy of 
composition, post hoc ergo propter hoc, petitio 
principii, and other Latin crimes against reason. As 
far as we have been able to ascertain, no text 
mentions the fallacy of misplaced concreteness. 
They do talk about abstraction, but mainly in order 
to emphasize its powers, not its dangers. 
There are nevertheless two rules of thumb that will 
help us to minimize misplaced concreteness. One 
is, in Whitehead’s words, “recurrence to the 
concrete in search of inspiration.” One technique 
for getting back to the concrete is to look at all four 
of Aristotle’s notions of cause. These four causes 
(material, efficient, formal, and final) can be 
explained with reference to a house. The material 
cause is the lumber, bricks, and so forth from which 
the house is made. The efficient cause is the 
carpenter and his tools, which effect a change of 
form in the material. The formal cause is the 
blueprint that the carpenter is following. The final 
cause is the purpose for building the house — for 
example, shelter and privacy. In economics our 
attention is overwhelmingly focused on efficient 
and formal causes. If we remember material and 
final causes as well, we will be less likely to com- 
mit the fallacy of misplaced concreteness. White- 
head said, “A satisfactory cosmology must explain 
the interweaving of efficient and final causation”. 
Likewise for a satisfactory political economy. 
Coal mining companies could be required to pay 
the full cost of black lung disease among coal 
miners. To do this they would charge a higher price 
for coal in order fully to cover all medical expenses 
of miners with black lung disease. To the naive cit- 
izen who asks, “But can our society afford to pay 
those costs?” — the answer is that 
society is already paying them. 
... lf the general public rather 
than the producers and consum- 
ers of coal pay for black lung, then 
the coal industry will find it un- 
profitable to take any measures at 
all to reduce black lung disease, 
since the cost is being paid by 
others. 
The Politics of the 
Solar Age 
This edition of Hazel Henderson's 1981 classic 
shows that her revisionist economic ideas have 
not only aged well, they are still well ahead of the 
conventional theories that are proving to be just 
plain dangerous. Ms. Henderson was one of the 
first to see that economic calculations must take 
into account the costs of environmental and 
human degradation — an idea still considered 
heretical by establishment economists. Even some 
of the more enlightened economists stand their fur 
straight up at the mere mention of her name — 
possibly because she is self-taught. No degree, 
tsk. Perhaps even worse, she is notorious for 
publicly deflating windbags with her deadly 
accurate verbal knifework. You debate Hazel 
Henderson, and you had better have done your 
homework. Um, now for the delicate question: can 
you read her stuff without falling out of your chair? 
It is, after all, economics. | am happy to say that 
you can, and what’s more, you will probably enjoy 
the trip. (You might also like her earlier book: 
Creating Alternative Futures, the End of 
Economics, also available as a TV series she 
produced (and paid for) herself. 
These days, she keeps busy advising the Calvert 
Social Investment Fund, and is a partner in 
Commons Capital. She also is consultant to a 
number of foreign governments on the necessity 
for a more useful measure of prosperity than the 
GNP. And she always seems to be lecturing 
someplace; if she comes your way, | guarantee 
you won't be bored. —JB 
The Politics of the Solar Age 
(Alternatives to Economics) 
Hazel Henderson; 1988; 433 pp. 
$14.95 ($16.95 postpaid) 
from: Knowledge Systems, Inc. 
7777 W. Morris Street 
Indianapolis, IN 46231 
(317) 241-0749 WEA 
The underlying model of my “devolution scenario” 
is that of “self-organizing systems’ (i.e., organic, 
and biological, systems incorporating both positive 
and negative feedbacks and displaying behavior 
modes both of deviation-damping morphostasis 
and deviation-amplifying morphogenesis). As the 
crisis of unmanageability unfolds, individual and 
group responses include: 
1. Increasing demands for citizen participation at 
all levels of decision making. 
2. Rapid societal learning via citizen movements 
(that are adult-education-based on the “each one 
teach one” model). 
3. Proliferation of heterarchical (as opposed to 
hierarchical) communication in, for example, 
citizen-based media, newsletters, telephone trees, 
study groups, consciousness raising, and network- 
ing of new perceptions both within and across 
existing organizations. 
4. Multiple-leadership model, i.e., heterarchy. As 
information-handling overwhelms hierarchical 
decision centers, they become bottlenecks. 
Normal channels for data input become over- 
loaded. Similarly, there is insufficient capacity in 
existing political channels. 
5. Retaking of individual responsibility. Public-in- 
terest-oriented individuals and public-issue-orient- 
ed groups appear at all levels of government. 
e 
The term hierarchy implies that all such systems 
have definitive boundaries, rather than the reality: 
that, like all biological systems, they are open and 
have “leaky” boundaries. 
