PEST MANAGEMENT 47 
Pests of the Garden & Small 
Farm: A Grower’s Guide to 
Using Less Pesticide 
It has been a long wait, but here is the first dose of 
Integrated Pest Management (IPM) aimed at 
home gardeners and organic growers. The 
University of California’s IPM Project has been 
cranking out a whole series of books explaining 
how to use less synthetic pesticides by working 
with nature, not against it — the bottom line of IPM 
— on specific agricultural crops since 1978. It 
made good sense to first offer these practical al- 
ternatives to the farmers spraying thousands of 
acres of cotton, alfalfa and tomatoes, but for most 
people, the major exposure to pesticides occurs in 
their own gardens. “Each year in California, home 
gardeners use about one pound of pesticide for 
every man, woman, and child in the state,” says 
author Flint. 
This richly illustrated book is filled with all the 
details about what you can do instead — for 
insects, plant diseases, nematodes and weeds. 
It’s worth buying just to have good pictures of so 
many little critters finally gathered all in one place. 
It is keyed to California, but most of the species 
discussed occur throughout North America, and 
the techniques (like soil solarization — cooking 
weed seeds and fungi to death in the soil under 
plastic sheets) will work anywhere. We have been 
making do with a small handful of books on these 
subjects for long enough. Now you need to own 
only one. —Richard Nilsen 
Pests of the Garden & 
Small Farm (A Grower's 
Guide to Using Less 
Pesticide), Mary Louise 
Flint, PhD; 1990; 276 pp. 
$25 postpaid from: 
ANR Publications 
6701 San Pablo Ave. 
Oakland, CA 94608 
(415) 642-2431 9*WEA 
Most biological control occurs naturally without 
assistance from the grower or gardener. Often its 
importance is not appreciated until a broad 
spectrum pesticide which kills certain natural 
enemies as well as targeted pests is applied and a 
new pest — suddenly released from biological 
control — becomes a serious problem. This type 
of phenomenon known as secondary pest out- 
break occasionally occurs in gardens. One 
example might be the sudden outbreak of aphid, 
scale, mite or whitefly populations throughout a 
garden soon after a large tree has been sprayed 
with a broad spectrum insecticide such as car- 
baryl: not only are the pest insects in the tree 
destroyed, but also the insect parasites and other 
natural enemies in, beneath, and adjacent to the 
tree canopy. 
Life cycle of a Trichogramma wasp. The tiny 
Trichogramma wasp attacks eggs of caterpillars. 
Larval and pupal stages take place entirely within 
the egg of the host and the life cycle may take 
only a week. Each female wasp attacks many host 
eggs. 
parasite larva 
Parasite pupa 
Common Sense Pest 
Control Quarterly - The IPM 
Practitioner 
Integrated pest management isn’t just for farmers 
and gardeners. It works on cockroaches, rats, and 
clothes moths too. Plenty of techniques are 
known, and getting them to people who can use 
them are what these two magazines are all about. 
The Quarterly is for a general audience and the 
Practitioner is read by professional pest manag- 
ers interested in offering alternatives to chemical 
poisons. A wide variety of pests receive state-of- 
the-art coverage — mosquitoes, head lice, poison 
ivy, and lawn pests. 
The Bio-Integral Resource Center has also forged 
a link with scientists in China, with two important 
goals in mind. The first is to access the wealth of 
non-chemical pest control techniques Chinese 
farmers have evolved over thousands of years of 
practicing sustainable agriculture — this is the only 
U.S. group scanning the Chinese literature and 
printing abstracts. The second is to help Chinese 
policy makers head off a wholesale adoption of 
western chemical control techniques by offering 
them workable large-scale alternatives. It is nice to 
know that even though the two governments 
currently are at odds, the science marches on. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Bio-Integral Resource 
Center; $25/year 
membership (includes 
one journal of your choice) 
$45/year dual membership 
(includes both journals) 
Sheila Daar, Helga 
Olkowski, William 
Olkowski, Editors 
Common Sense Pest 
Control Quarterly 
(four issues a year) 
The IPM Practitioner 
(ten issues a year) 
All from: 
BIRC 
P.O. Box 7414 
Berkeley, CA 94707 
(415) 524-2567 
Effective barriers must be considered in an IPM 
context because barriers do more than just keep 
slugs and snails out — barriers also lock resident 
pest populations in. . 
. 
. It has been found most 
effective to build the copper or screen barrier first, 
then handpick and trap within it after it has been 
constructed. We hunt the pests on alternate nights 
for several weeks during the rainy season or after 
sprinkling the garden in the evening. 
fe Copper barrier 
‘ 
DOK 
KKK 
SOC Ron 
ee 
ohstam 
AL 
Bey 
‘ 
Insecticidal Soap 
Soaps are made of fatty acids from plants and 
animals. 
There are hundreds of these fatty acids, and while 
most will get dirt off your hands, a select few will 
also kill insect pests yet not harm people, benefi- 
cial insects, or the plants themselves. Safer Agro- 
Chem has built an innovative line of products 
around these special soaps — the one for use 
against fruit and vegetable pests is safe to use 
right up to the day of harvest. Others kill moss and 
algae, powdery mildew, and fleas on pets. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Introduction to Integrated 
Pest Management 
Integrated pest management (IPM) has come into 
its own in the last 20 years as the shortcomings of 
reliance on synthetic chemical pesticides have 
become glaringly apparent — the bugs become 
immune to the sprays, which are oil based and 
expensive; natural checks and balances get wiped 
out, groundwater becomes contaminated, birds 
die, and people eat foods laced with carcinogens. 
This is an easy-reading introduction to a system 
based on looking at pests in their total environ- 
mental setting via careful monitoring in the field 
and use of computer-built predictive mathematical 
models of insect behavior. Compared to using only 
chemical pesticides, IPM is gentle on the earth 
and frequently cheaper. —Richard Nilsen 
Introduction to Integrated 
Pest Management, Mary 
Louise Flint and Robert 
van den Bosch; 1981; 240 pp. 
$27.50 ($29.50 postpaid) from: 
Plenum Press, 233 Spring St. 
New York, NY 10013 
(800) 221-9369 WEA 
Grape growers in California have learned that 
blackberry bushes have their beneficial aspects, 
especially in the control of an important insect pest 
— the grape leafhopper. Insecticides have often 
failed to provide effective control of the leafhopper, 
or their use has aggravated other pest problems 
such as spider mites. Entomologists had known 
that a tiny natural enemy, the parasitic wasp 
Anagrus epos, which lays its eggs in the eggs of 
the grape leafhopper, kept the pest under control 
in some vineyards — but not in others. Nobody 
knew why. 
The riddle was solved when It was realized that 
the wasp spent its winters parasitizing a different 
insect on a different plant host. Since the leaves 
fall off grapevines in the winter and the grape 
leafhopper retreats to the edge of the vineyard and 
becomes inactive, the nonhibernating parasitic 
wasp has no shelter, food or means of survival in 
this environment. Nearby blackberry bushes, 
however, keep their leaves during winter and host 
their own leafhopper species all year round. Thus, 
the weedy blackberry patches were providing a 
winter home for this important natural enemy of 
the key grape pest. 
OF wasp 
7; 
SG MIGRATION 
° wy 
pai 
Evaro 
x <> 
a, 
Ne 
yl 
ffi oe sane, 
Ag 
PORTION OF WASP POPULATION 
BLOW BLACKBERRY 
> 
LEAFHOPPER 
RON) 
EE 
A 
WINTER ON BLACKBERRY LEAFHOPPER 
SUMMER ON GRAPE LEAFHOPPER 
/\ it 
ae 
Fay t MiG, 
ES 
RATION of WASP To BLACKBERR 
GRAPE LEAFHOPPER 
RETIRES TO WEEDS IM FALL 
SHARPSHOOTLR 4 
WEED 
6 GRASS KNILR 
y 
Insecticidal Soap, Information free from: 
Safer, Inc., 189 Wells Ave., Newton, MA 02159 
(800) 544-4453, or at your local garden supply. 
