WORLD GAME 7 
World Game °® 
“To make the world work 
For 100% of humanity 
In the shortest possible time 
Through spontaneous cooperation 
Without ecological offense 
Or the disadvantage of anyone” 
—Buckminster Fuller 
A big order. Buckminster Fuller initiated the 
World Game in 1969 as one means of accom- 
plishing this worthy goal, to which he dedicat- 
ed his life. He insisted that with enough accu- 
rate data on world resource distribution and 
use — including human skills and accumu- 
lated knowledge — the world’s citizens would 
conduct their lives in a way that was best for 
all. Fuller’s own investigations proved that 
there was enough of virtually every resource if 
people would learn “to do more with less” by 
using their minds for “comprehensive, antici- 
patory design.” Once people began to see 
the big picture, they would stop fighting and 
get to work making the world work — if not as 
a utopia, then at least in a way that was not 
suicidal. But how to deliver the big picture in a 
comprehensible way? 
Bucky (everyone called him Bucky) realized 
that global problems were enormous, Compli- 
cated and difficult to comprehend even with 
the aid of computers. To make things easier to 
visualize, he proposed a “Geoscope”, an 
enormous globe — one of his materials- 
efficient geodesic structures, of course — 
skinned with thousands of lamps. The idea was 
to show worldwide data, animated by lighting 
the appropriate bulbs in a manner rather like 
that used on the sides of the Goodyear Blimp. 
For example, you might ask to see the sea- 
sons, locations and quantities of the world’s 
rice crops. With bulbs of a contrasting color, 
you could then superimpose population data, 
annual rainfall, shipping patterns and ton- 
nage, cash flow and endemic beri-beri. Seen 
on the Geoscope, the data could be under- 
stood well enough to suggest strategies that 
might help alleviate hunger and poverty. Of 
course, data could also be simulated, allow- 
ing World Gamers to try a variety of ideas. 
Bucky assumed that the participants would 
eventually come up with a scheme that 
would maximize benefits for all. He expected 
that if all factors were considered, selfishness 
would obviously be of advantage only in the 
short term, and thus would no longer be a 
useful policy. A bit idealistic perhaps, but a 
concept that certainly had to be tried. 
World Game got off to a shaky start about 20 
years ago, the grand scheme smothered by a 
pleasant, utterly ineffective touchie-feelie 
crowd that felt personal enlightenment had to 
be realized before larger problems could be 
addressed. However commendable that 
goal, it was not the purpose of World Game. 
Bucky was too nice to put his foot down, but it 
wasn’t long before the Game got serious 
under the guidance of Medard Gabel, its 
present director. His team has staged many 
World Game sessions addressing real prob- 
lems — unfortunately without the aid of a 
Geoscope. With limited time and budget, and 
with (paying) participants of diverse and not 
necessarily germane experience, the Game 
has so far come up with few results that have 
enjoyed widespread, practical implementa- 
tion. Nonetheless, with twenty years of persis- 
tent and clever development, World Game 
has become a powerful and increasingly 
influential teaching tool. Many presentations 
feature a startling basketball court-size “Big 
Map” (Fuller’s patented Dymaxion projection 
shown on this page) as an aid to clarity. 
Participants representing various data move 
about on the huge map as required, making 
the exercise dynamic and unforgettable. 
As World Game has become more effective, 
demand for its services has risen sharply. This 
year schedules 180 Workshops, up from 100 in 
1989. They'll play to universities, high schools, 
and a wide variety of mostly non-governmen- 
tal organizations. World Game is getting some 
high-level attention too: sessions have been 
Fuller's Dymaxion Map writ large (35 by 70 feet) in 
highway marking paint, the Big Map is the center for 
learning about world resources, problems and pros- 
pects on a global scale. Activities range from the 
simplest “Simon Says” through role playing games and 
actual drawing of cultural or natural features on the 
map in chalk. Students standing on the map enjoy a 
view the equivalent of that from a satellite in orbit 1500 
miles above the Earth. Small Dymaxion Maps & other 
geodesic artifacts available from: Buckminster Fuller 
Institute, 1743 South La Cienega Bivd., Los Angeles, CA 
90035 (213) 837-7710. 
well-received on Capitol Hill. Next year, the 
Rockefeller Brothers Fund will sponsor a series 
of World Game Workshops for the U.N., Am- 
bassadors, Consulates and their staffs. Big- 
time at last! 
But perhaps the best news is that a sort of 
Geoscope — an 80 by 60 foot wall map — is 
under construction at the new St. Louis Sci- 
ence Center. It isn’t Bucky’s geodesic sphere 
(alas), but it promises to be very effective 
anyway. It’s called “Macroscope”, an appro- 
priate name for a device that looks at huge 
things. World Game’s formidable and ever- 
expanding Global Data Manager software 
(see below), will instantly laser-project the 
requested information onto the map. It’s 
scheduled to open next year. When it does, 
we'll do a full report in Whole Earth Review. 
Another version of the same scheme is under 
study for a World Game Pavilion at EXPO 1992 
in Seville. If built, it will include an interactive 
theater for 540 delegates, each one repre- 
senting 10 million of the world’s 5.4 billion 
people. Now that would be a World Game to 
see! By the time you read this, the decision will 
have been made. Let’s hope it’s yes, but if 
not, a big, interactive, truly international 
Geoscope is certain to be realized soon. It’s 
an idea whose time has come. 
—JB 
World Game Goods and Services 
World Game sessions come in many shapes 
and sizes; from multi-subject overview to a 
sharply focussed look at a single issue or geo- 
graphic area (including your own locale), It 
can be a couple hours for a small group, or 
an 8-hour, multimedia blowout for thousands. 
Semester programs can be arranged. They do 
computer labs and public school assemblies, 
too. All can be tailored to fit your needs. 
Anywhere in the world, of course. 
In addition to presenting sessions, the World 
Game Institute offers a variety of goods and 
services. Chief among these is their peerless 
Global Data Manager software, available for 
MS-DOS and Apple machines. It combines 
numbers from the U.N., World Bank, World Re- 
sources Institute, and several other world-class 
data collections. At this time, the Global Data 
Manager is available as separate disks for 
Basic World Data (180 variables, correct to 
1989), World Development Indicators 1970- 
1983 (371 variables from the World Bank on 
economics and development), World Social 
Development Indicators (100 variables from 
UNESCO, World Bank and others on health, 
education, defense, justice etc.), World 
Minerals Data (150 variables on production 
and reserves and reserve bases), and World 
Energy Data (190 variables 1950-1987). An 
interactive disk called Global Recall combines 
many features from the Data Manager disks 
into a single-disk quick review for research, 
analysis, education or media needs. Why 
guess, when this disk can whip out the facts 
you need so quickly? 
The data are presented in spreadsheet form. It 
can be manipulated into graphs, onto maps, 
compared, correlated and added to. Match- 
ing teacher’s manuals are available. The 
Global Data Manager now has about 1000 
variables listed for every country, and will soon 
have 5000. The goal is 100,000 per country! 
Under development: 
a CD-ROM version ena- 
bling all the data to be manipulated on one 
; 
liliteracy 
1987 
Each «= 10.1 Million People 
= 1% of World Total 
Global Recall for the Macintosh. 
The Hitachi Fund recently funded a monster 
stencil for the Big Map, making it possible to 
have one done in durable, skid-proof paint on 
the floor, wall, or (Most commonly) play- 
ground of your choice. The contract price 
includes the fairly tricky installation. Kids love it. 
Aaaaaand, you can support and keep up 
with the exploits of World Game by joining it 
as a member. That brings you their newsletter, 
Macroscope, plus price breaks on some of the 
offerings which include the usual T-shirt type 
stuff too. Help a unique, much-needed world- 
wide service grow. 
Information free from: World Game Institute, 
3508 Market Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104; 
(215) 387-0220 
