Earth First! 
Out on the front lines of eco-defense is Earth 
First!. “No compromise in the defense of Mother 
Earth!” Direct action against the machinery (not 
people) and eco-theatre is their modus operandi. 
Because many environmental groups have 
become top-heavy with managerial salaries and 
glossy promotions, Earth First! attracts more youth 
and makes more efficient use of limited funds. 
—Peter Warshall 
A subscription to Earth First! The Radical Envi- 
ronmental Journal is not the same as joining the 
movement. There are Earth First! groups all over 
the world. In addition to lots of reports from the 
front lines, the Journal includes a directory of 
where they are. Last year, Earth First! founder 
Dave Foreman was busted by the FBI (in bed, at 
gunpoint, a set-up). Since then, there has been a 
lot more official action against Earth First! activists 
Earth First! 
Journal; $20/ 
year (eight is- 
sues) from: 
Earth First! 
Journal, P.O. 
Box 7, Canton, 
NY 13617 
— a tribute to their effectiveness. The result has 
been an Earth First! you can see, and one you 
can’t. The ranks are growing. —JB 
e 
How do you change society when you are apart 
from it? How do you understand yourself when 
you deny the social environment that produced 
you? How can you gain support for your goals and 
actions when your behavior alienates potential 
supporters? 
Wise guerrillas know that they are part of society 
and need support from the population base. The 
isolated, alienated guerrilla is just as lost and 
vulnerable as the isolated, alienated gorilla. We 
primates are social animals. We have a long, deep 
heritage of being part of a tribe, of defining our- 
selves by the cultural context in which we were 
born. 
We deny human ecology when we argue that we 
can operate totally apart from the mores of 
society, when we define ourselves as ethical 
islands, beholden to no one, without responsibility 
to others for our own actions. There we enter 
uncharted waters, beyond anthropology, beyond 
biology, into modernist alienation and nihilism, into 
Hobbe’s nightmare of all against all, a dark and 
fearful place as far from the wilderness as we can 
imagine. —Dave Foreman 
The Muckraker’s Manual 
Amateur investigation is arduous but fun, and one 
of the few do-it-yourself ways to effectively change 
the political scene. It’s a shame more people don’t 
try it. Muckraking is an accessible craft for anyone 
who can handle massive files of paper and long 
hours of interviews. There is a weird psychological 
split sometimes; you'll bare your soul to someone 
at breakfast, then expose them in print or court 
two months later. (On the other hand, a couple of 
my most valued friends started out as reporter's 
- 
“sources. ”) 
The Muckraker’s Manual is one of those excep- 
tional books that way outclasses everything else 
on the subject. Though signed with a pseudonym, 
it’s solid enough to be trusted. —Art Kleiner 
e 
Often, you will be surprised at just who some of 
your friends and acquaintances do know. As an 
example, | recently finished an investigation of the 
networks that smuggle foreign nationals into the 
United States illegally to work for slave wages. | 
So we've chewed up the mountains and spit out 
the plains 
While we get indigestion from each acid rain. 
It's gotten so bad, the West ain’t any place. 
I'll ask ya “How are ya?” and you'll stare into space. 
What's left of the West’s where we’ve already 
been. 
So Alaska Hawaii again. 
Chorus: 
And Honolulu’s no lulu. Fairbanks ain’t so fair. 
Take a sip of the water; take a whiff of the air. 
Take some pictures of the wildlife: take a leak in 
the stream. 
Take a jet back to Cleveland and dream. 
If trees went to congress and forest could vote, 
Our chances of survival might not be so remote. 
But since we don’t give a damn as to who they’d 
elect, 
Their absentee ballots are the greenhouse effect. 
knew | wanted to make contact with two groups: 
smugglers and the people who “bought” the 
undocumented immigrants. For a person who lives 
a relatively quiet, middle-class existence, this 
possibility seemed very remote. But | did what | 
always do. | talked about my investigation to my 
friends. As it turned out, one of my friends had a 
brother who “bought” undocumented immigrants. 
Another friend had a lover who had previously 
lived with a smuggler. Because | had developed 
these “inside” sources through my extended 
friendship network, both of them trusted me 
enough to talk to me about their experiences. 
They also were able to give me more leads. 
The Muckrakers Manual 
(Handbook for Investigative 
Reporters), M. Harry 
1984; 145 pp.; $11.95 
($14.95 postpaid) from: 
Loompanics Unlimited 
P.O. Box 1197, Port 
Townsend, WA 98368 
**WEA 
What’s a boatload of timber? What’s the whole 
human race? 
I'll ask ya, “How are ya?” and you'll stare into 
space. 
What's left of the West’s where we've already 
been, 
So Alaska Hawaii again. 
Chorus 
We scrub up with phosphates then flush down the 
suds 
Till the banks of our rivers is bubbles and mud. 
Just to stay sanitary, we’ve gone to these lengths. 
Now our whole ecosystem’s industrial strength. 
It's so simple to screw up what can’t be replaced. 
I'll ask ya “How are ya?” and you'll stare into 
space. 
What's left of the West’s where we’ve already 
been, 
So Alaska Hawaii again. 
Chorus 
COMMUNITY ACTION 107 
EP SS SAS ee SP 
ON Se 
Ecodefense 
Inspired by Ed Abbey’s The Monkey Wrench 
Gang, Ecodefense sports proven techniques of 
tree spiking, road spiking, disabling heavy equip- 
ment, fence cutting, trap clearing, lock jamming, 
billboard trashing, and sundry skills of propa- 
ganda, camouflage, sneaking around, escape and 
evasion, and the like. Fascinating stuff; best not to 
skim and try, but really study before trying — for 
two good reasons. One is that monkeywrenching 
mostly takes place in country where retribution is 
not only in the courts but also by direct action: you 
get the living shit beat out of you. The second is 
that monkeywrenching the wrong target is gro- 
tesquely counterproductive; you have not only to 
be right every single time, but conspicuously right, 
or you're just another random vandal making 
everyone else feel sick about being alive. The 
book constantly warns about knowing your target 
cold before making a move, and if in doubt, don’t. 
—Stewart Brand 
Ecodefense 
Dave Foreman, Editor 
1985; 1989 revised 2nd ed. 
197 pp.; $12 ($13.50 
postpaid) from: Ned Ludd 
Books, P.O. Box 5141 
Tucson, AZ 85703 
(602) 628-9610 **WEA 
Try to break down the power of the billboard ad by 
answering it, looking at the space available and 
the way in which the words and images lend 
themselves to addition, alteration or comment. 
Humor is extremely effective in exposing the 
advertiser's real intentions — turning the ad’s 
message back on itself. (Be sure to avoid spelling 
mistakes!) 
If the offending billboard proves too high to reach, 
you can either get a ladder (which isn’t particularly 
convenient) or build a spray can extension rod: 
Obtain a broom handle or another solid, strong but 
lightweight wooden pole (see illustration, #1). At 
one end, cut out a wedge, half the width of the 
pole. Fit a flat metal bar to the remaining wood 
(#2). About one foot from this bar (or the height of 
your spray can), attach a support clamp on which 
the can will rest (#3). Fit an angle bracket on each 
side of the pole, about 8 inches from the end (#4). 
The spray can should fit between these brackets. 
Tie a length of plastic coated wire to the flat metal 
bar (#2) and feed it through a hole in the support 
clamp (#3) and screw eyes attached the length of 
the pole (#5). This wire, when pulled, will press 
down the nozzle of the spray can and paint will 
spray out. An optional extra is the roll-top of a 
deodorant bottle, fitted to the support clamp (#6). 
This will help maintain an 
even distance between the 
spray can and billboard. You 
may have to experiment a bit 
to get the right measurements 
to fit a can of spray paint. 
Although these spray can 
extension rods are clumsy to 
use at first, with practice they 
become very effective. 
