20 TREE PLANTING 
The Simple Act 
of Planting a Tree 
This is as much a book about organizational and 
motivational skills and fundraising as it is about 
tree planting. The subject is urban forestry, and 
the folks at TreePeople in Los Angeles have been 
at it since the early ’70s. Their most notable 
achievement was planting a million trees in LA in 
time for the ‘84 Olympic Games. Trees in cities 
don't make it without people to protect them, so 
urban forests are really a living embodiment of 
community spirit. This book replaces their earlier 
book, Planter’s Guide to the Urban Forest, and 
is filled with those niggly details most folks over- 
look when they write how-to books. The degree of 
organizational transparency this book documents 
makes it worthwhile for anyone involved with vol- 
unteer groups. — Richard Nilsen 
The Simple Act of Planting 
a Tree, TreePeople with Andy 
and Katie Lipkis; 1990; 240 pp. 
$12.95 ($14.70 postpaid) from: 
Jeremy Tarcher 
5858 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 200 
Los Angeles, CA 90036 **WEA 
Tree planting isn’t free. In our experience, it costs 
$100-$300 to plant a street tree; the larger figure 
includes concrete cutting and well covers. It 
‘typically costs even more when it’s done by local 
government or private contractors. 
The ancient marriage of oil and wine; olive trees 
and vines grow together on the terraced hillsides 
of the island of Samos in the Aegean, punctuated 
with black spires of cypress. 
Hugh Johnson’s 
Encyclopedia of Trees 
If the quest is for one volume on trees, this is the 
choice. Ace popularizer Hugh Johnson is a great 
organizer with a wonderfully personal writing style. 
Well captioned color photographs are included 
and there are 65 pages of A-Z tree species 
encyclopedia as well. An out of print classic that 
deserves to be reissued. —Richard Nilsen 
am 
Hugh Johnson’s 
Encyclopedia of Trees 
Hugh Johnson; 1984 
336 pp.; Out of Print 
Gallery Books 
New York, NY 
Encyclopedia of 
Global Warming / Global 
Warning: Plant the Right Tree 
By Marylee Guinon 
In an effort to reduce greenhouse gases and 
compensate for global warming, it is likely that 
billions of seedling trees will be planted during 
the next few years. The dedicated people doing 
the planting hope the trees will thrive into matur- 
ity and act as carbon sponges to fix atmospheric 
carbon dioxide. Often non-native species are 
planted. These can naturalize and spread as 
escaped exotics, displacing native species and 
even driving some natives into extinction. But 
even when the correct native species are planted, 
the local biodiversity can still be lost or destroyed 
if no one is paying attention to the genetic source 
of the seedling tree stock. 
Genetics conservation is the protection and 
preservation of the genetic raw materials of 
adaptation and evolution that species and ecosys- 
tems depend upon for long-term survival. Unlike 
humans, plants cannot modify or move from their 
environments as they contend with hardships like 
droughts, freezes, and even ice ages. Plants are 
able to survive on specific sites because they accu- 
mulate the large amounts of genes their ancestors 
evolved over millennia for life in those places. 
Many individual tree species are known to contain 
several times the genetic variation of our own 
human species. These huge pools of genes are like 
a bag of survival tricks, that can be called upon if 
needed during lifetimes that often last centuries. 
Tree planters need to be aware that within a given 
species, each stand of trees contains a unique 
diversity of genes appropriate to that site, and that 
it is only this pool of genes that are likely to 
survive there through future hardships — such as 
global warming — over the lifetime of the trees 
and the lifetime of the species. Tree planting that 
ignores genetics conservation hurts two ways — it 
can lessen the variations that exist within trees on 
a site, and it can contaminate a local gene pool 
with ill-adapted introductions from somewhere 
else. The differences are hidden away in the genes; 
non-local seedlings and their offspring are indis- 
tinguishable to the eye from the local inhabitants. 
In extreme cases, tens of thousands of seeds are 
collected from just a few parent trees. This can 
seriously reduce genetic variation and result in 
inbreeding and widespread mortality in the 
future. Conscientious tree planting requires more 
start-up preparation and expense, but the benefits 
will be realized over the long term, perhaps 
centuries. 
: 
Before undertaking a large-scale planting, it is 
worth preparing genetic conservation guidelines 
to insure that the planting stock is compatible with 
ecology and genetically appropriate to the site. A 
few private consultants can prepare these guide- 
lines for public or private projects. Your local Co- 
operative Extension Office may be able to refer 
you to plant geneticists who do this work, or to 
agencies familiar with such guidelines. 
Editor’s note: Ms. Guinon is a private consultant 
specializing in genetic conservation. She can be 
contacted by writing to Sycamore Associates, 910 
Mountain View Drive, Lafayette, CA 94549 
—Richard Nilsen 
aiangmbober see 
oF pacececaieal 
3 
scalping, the Hazel Hoe will cut 
easily and deeply into thick 
grassy planting sites. 
HAZEL HOE SCALPER 
Osborne Pattern Adze Hoe 
Like the McLeod, the Hazel Hoe 
is another double duty tool for 
use during both fire season and 
* Electrically tempered. 
* Blade width — 6%”. 
+ Blade length — 5%’. 
+ Handle length — 36”. 
« Sh. Weight: 5 Ibs. 
planting season. Designed for 
heavy grubbing, trenching, and 
CAT.# 
ITEM DESCRIPTION 
SFF1029 
Hazel Hoe Scalper Complete 
w/Handle 
» Made of special alloy tool steel. 
UNIT PRICE 
$ 31.05 
EES 
es ee 
ea 
Native Seed Foundation 
One of the real nitty-gritty issues in restoration 
work is genetic diversity within individual species. 
A rose ain't a rose ain't a rose, and neither is a 
salmon or mountain hemlock tree. These fine- 
grained distinctions are overlooked when, say, 
Yellowstone burns up and gets reseeded from 
airplanes hauling in seed grown two states away. 
Expediency and integrity are always a couple 
states apart anyway, so it is a real delight to find a 
small seed company trying to do something about 
this problem. 
The Native Seed Foundation collects and sells 
seed of species native to the Pacific and Inter- 
mountain Northwest, and for their tree species at 
least, they tell you which national forest (or 
Canadian provincial park) the seed came from. 
Wholesale or retail, by the pound or by the ounce, 
here you can buy pinyon pine seed from Dixie 
National Forest in Utah, sub-alpine fir from 
Kootenai N.F. in Montana, or Douglas fir seed 
from five different locations. Additionally, they sell 
seed for over 30 native shrubs, and are also on 
the look-out for independent seed collectors they 
can buy from. 
—Richard Nilsen 
[Suggested by Jack Monschkel] 
Native Seed Foundation; Brochure free from: 
Star Route, Dept. W, Moyie Springs, ID 83845 
(208) 267-7938 
Global ReLeaf 
The venerable American Forestry Association has 
caught up with the times with a national tree- 
planting program tied to the threat of global 
warming and called Global ReLeaf. They have 
several handbooks available, all designed to assist 
community tree-planting groups. One of their goals 
is to help get 100 million new trees growing on 
private land in U.S. cities by 1992. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Global ReLeaf 
Titles offered: Tree Care Handbook, Save Our 
Urban Trees, Gypsy Moth Handbook, Forest 
Effects of Air Pollution, Global ReLeaf Brochures 
Information free from: 
The American Forestry Association 
P. O. Box 2000, Washington, DC 20013 
(202) 667-3300 
TILE SPADE 
* Blade length — 14”; width — 5'4”. 
PLANTING SHOVEL 
+ Full blade backspine reinforce- 
When the contract specification 
ment 
says a 14” blade is required, our 
e Available with or without 
| 
Tile Spade Planting Shovel is just 
fiberglassed, reinforced D-grip 
; i! 
the ticket! 
handle. 
fe 
Padded footplates. 
| nte rn at i on al 
An excellent inspection shovel. 7 
Sh. Weight: 6 Ibs. 
Reforestation 
Suppliers 
This is a good source for seedling- 
protection tubes. No chainsaws, 
although there is a saw-blade-on- 
a-rod gizmo for harvesting Christ- 
mas trees that’s bound to find its 
way into some bad slasher movie. 
Besides forestry gear, if you need 
to set up a weather station, fight a 
fire, read a map, or measure just 
about anything, this is a good 
place to find the tools. 
—Richard Nilsen 
[Suggested by Jack Monschke] 
International Reforestation Suppliers 
Catalog free from: International Reforestation 
Suppliers, P.O. Box 5547, Eugene, OR 97405 
(800) 321-1037 [in OR 345-0597] 
