48 EDIBLE LANDSCAPING 
Designing and Maintaining 
Your Edible Landscape 
Naturally 
Edible landscaping is a new term for an old idea. It 
is a reaction to the lawns and shrubs that make 
many suburban yards look so boring. Its goal is to 
integrate food plants into the landscape: specifi- 
cally to liberate fruits and vegetables from rectan- 
gular prisons often hidden out at the back of the 
lot. Bring those salad herbs up and put them right 
outside the kitchen door where they will be tended 
and used. And put the peaches (dwarf) under a 
south-facing eave of the roof where they can enjoy 
maximum frost protection and warmth. 
What used to be common sense was lost when 
people stopped growing any of their own food and 
ran out of time even to be in their gardens, let 
alone work them. That is changing, and these 
books suggest that vegetable gardening can also 
be aesthetic. 
Robert Kourik has produced a classic homemade 
FRUIT TREES 
Designing and Main- 
taining Your Edible 
Landscape Naturally 
Robert Kourik; 1986 
400 pp.; $16.95 ($19.95 
postpaid) from: Edible 
Landscape, P.O. Box 
1841, Santa Rosa, 
CA 95402 *WEA 
NDSC. APE 
art RALLY 
pote Werth 
book in the best sense of the term. His mind works 
referentially and fortunately by publishing his own 
book he didn’t have to meet up with a linear- 
minded editor eager to streamline his work. The 
book is massive, detailed, and totally indexed. It is 
full of charts and graphs that allow the kind of 
comparing and decision-making that landscape 
designing is all about. There is extensive informa- 
tion on selecting fruit tree varieties and appropriate 
rootstocks. 
Best of all, he is not dogmatic. If there are two 
schools of thought, say till versus no-till gardening, 
he will explain the advantages and disad- 
vantages of each in different situations. 
The Complete Book of 
Edible Landscaping 
Somewhere in the 1970s friends of mine began to 
dig up their front lawns and plant vegetables. 
Neither those vegetables nor this book signal the 
end of ornamental horticulture, but they do 
represent a useful alternative to the lawn and the 
shrubby sameness of suburbia. Titles with the “the 
complete book of” in them make me leery. In this 
case the phrase is deserved, for in addition to 
garden planning, construction, and maintenance, 
there is an exhaustive alphabetical treatment of 
120 edible species that tells everything from where 
they grow to how to cook them. The art described 
here is in combining utility with beauty to produce 
a garden that looks good enough to eat. 
—Richard Nilsen 
The Complete Book 
of Edible Landscaping 
Rosalind Creasy 
1982; 379 pp.; $19.95 
($22.95 postpaid) from: 
Sierra Club Books 
Like all gardening books, this one is written 
with a sense of place in mind (Northern 
California), but Kourik is aware that your 
IN 2NO-39° YEARS groumll cisco 
730 Polk Street 
San Francisco, CA 94109 
IN 3°o_otH YEAR 
garden, right down to its microclimates, is 
unique. —Richard Nilsen 
e 
The amount of effort needed to sustain a 
landscape or garden is, perhaps, the single 
most important design consideration. Plant- 
ing happens quickly, at the peak of the 
gardener’s enthusiasm. Maintenance 
usually ends up being crammed into busy, 
everyday life. 
An example of how your five-year plan 
might look. 
Cooking From the Garden 
I'm not in the habit of reading or reviewing cook- 
books, so the notion of turning pages and salivat- 
ing is a bit new, but this book did that for me. It is 
actually several books rolled into one. The price 
and full-page color photography make it suitable 
_for the food-as-art coffee table — along with all the 
other pretty-food cuisine books that make me 
hunger for a Sloppy Joe. (Pretty or not, dinky 
portions scare me.) The information on gardening 
techniques, and what varieties gardeners around 
America are growing, make this a fascinating 
gardening book. And the recipes, which come 
from all over the world and which use 
vegetables but are by no means only 
vegetarian — well, that’s where the 
drooling comes in. 
This enormous book is really a state- 
of-the-art survey of America’s gar- 
dens and kitchens. The link between 
the two is not new but very old, and 
by artfully re-establishing it, Rosalind 
Creasy is providing that awareness 
so essential before the public can 
demand and get food that is not only 
tastier, but safer to eat. 
The book is filled with profiles of 
people from both ends of the food 
spectrum — market gardeners, specialty growers, 
seed dealers, and chefs — and Creasy is always 
asking not just “what are you growing or using?”, 
but “how do you cook it?” The recipes come 
pouring in from everywhere, because every gar- 
dener is a cook and, by implication, every cook 
should be a gardener, or at least care more about 
where the ingredients come from. Creasy’s first 
book, The Complete Book of Edible Landscap- 
ing (reviewed on this page), put vegetables 
outside the kitchen door, and even into the front 
yard; this book puts them in the soil, the kitchen, 
and the imagination. —Richard Nilsen 
Potage is the French word for soup, and ina 
gardening context a potager is a garden contain- 
ing whatever is necessary for soup at any time 
throughout the year. Traditionally, the potager 
garden is planned in little three- or four-foot- 
square or rectangular plots, which rotate with the 
seasons, along with a nursery area for young 
seedlings. ... 
As Georgeanne put it, 
“This garden fits into your 
life; it doesn’t dominate it. 
Once the garden area is 
prepared, an average of 
twenty minutes a day is 
required to keep it up. For 
instance, a typical day 
might include harvesting a 
handful of snap beans 
and a few herbs, cleaning 
up the spent chard plants 
in one of the small beds, 
and seeding that bed with 
beans.” 
Cooking From the 
Garden, Rosalind 
Creasy; 1988; 547 pp. 
$35 ($38 postpaid) 
from: Sierra Club Books 
730 Polk Street, San 
Francisco, CA 94109 
(415) 923-5500 **WEA 
(415) 923-5500 >**WEA 
e 
Preserving and Preparing 
Raw or Boiled Bamboo Shoots: For all types of 
bamboo peel the outer layer to expose the white 
flesh. Cut small-diameter shoots into rings one 
node at a time, cut large shoots into slices. If the 
shoots are sweet they are edible raw in salads or 
with dips as an appetizer. However, most shoots 
are bitter until parboiled for 15 to 20 minutes. 
Change the water after the first 10 minutes, and 
drain shoots when you are done parboiling them. 
To serve immediately, cook until tender, or 
preserve for later use. The raw shoots deteriorate 
very quickly, so process or serve them on the day 
they are harvested. 
The small-diameter bamboos must 
be peeled in sections. Cut the shoots 
into sections and discard the woody joints. 
A Guide to Urban Wildlife 
Management 
Urban wildlife, eh — you mean rats, pigeons, star- 
lings and maybe a bunch of cockroaches, right? 
Or do you mean canaries and goldfish, hee hee? 
Well, I’ve seen raccoons in downtown San Fran- 
cisco, and a friend of mine in Berkeley boasts of a 
neighborhood fox. In many cities, hawks and owls 
head a veritable birdbookload of feathered friends. 
And what about the butterflies in the parks? Cit- 
izens of enlightened cities can fish in local streams 
and lakes. This guide shows you how to attract 
and keep wildlife in settings commonly thought of 
as unsuitable or even inappropriate. The authors 
are realistic about animals-as-nuisance. Their 
advice will reduce the effects of humans-as- 
nuisance; an urban area friendly to wildlife is much 
more pleasant and healthy for us, too. —JB 
$-
oy 
Fn
\-- 
ae
= 
Boe
|¥ 
5 
