16 FORESTS 
A Forest Journey 
John Perlin co-authored A Golden Thread, a 
history of the use of solar energy. Like that book, 
A Forest Journey began as an article in our 
magazine (“Running Out,” CQ #37, p. 18). Perlin 
discovered that people historically turned to the 
sun to heat houses and water only when they ran 
out of wood. Working backwards, in this new book 
he looks at wood, from Bronze Age Mesopotamia 
up to America in the 1880s. 
For that vast span of time wood was the equiva- 
lent of oil, natural gas and uranium all rolled into 
one. Not only did all civilizations heat and cook 
with it, they also made weapons, wheels (including 
water wheels that allowed desert agriculture to 
blossom), merchant ships and navies out of trees. 
Today we speak of “strategic metals,” but formerly 
it was the forests that were strategic. In this breezy 
history you can watch empires rise and fall based 
on who controls the woods, how long they last, 
who they get traded to and what does or doesn’t 
get built out of them. Trees, it turns out, bear an 
inverse relationship to civilization, and vanishing 
forests are as old as the denuded hills. 
—Richard Nilsen 
A Forest Journey, John Perlin; 1989; 276 pp.; 
$19.95 postpaid from: 
W.W. Norton, 500 5th Ave. 
New York, NY 10110 
(212) 354-5500 %*WEA 
This is probably the earliest drawing depicting a 
reforestation project. It “shews how vacant for- 
ests and woods which have been cut down, may 
be replanted by their roots. . .” Portion 
A shows 
“(a) place where trees have been felled and where 
there are only stumps to be extirpated”; B depicts 
“a long and thick root which is sawed into many 
pieces”; C-F describe the process for preparing 
the root for replanting on the hills to the right. 
The need to conserve wood stimulated the devel- 
opment of a lively market for recycled glass in the 
first century A.D. Poor Romans scoured the city for 
broken glass. The glass recyclers of Rome would 
trade their booty for sulfur matches and scrap 
dealers subsequently sold the used glass to local 
workshops. Artisans had to heat the recycled 
glass only moderately to turn out new glass prod- 
ucts instead of to the higher temperatures required 
by furnaces producing glass from raw materials. 
Culinary experts shared their expertise with house- 
wives to show how they, too, could cut fuel bills 
and still prepare delicious meals. For example, 
one authority suggested adding stalks of wild fig 
while cooking beef, permitting the meat to be 
boiled to the desired soft texture with a great 
saving in fuel. 
%*WEA — Available from Whole Earth Access, see p. 2. 
The more we begin to under- 
stand how forests function as 
ecological systems, the clearer 
it becomes that modern forestry 
is akin to mining, not resource 
management, and precludes 
any hope of sustainability. 
—Richard Nilsen 
an aOR ie 
as OS PPS = a ae ae dan ees | 
The Redesigned Forest - 
Forest Primeval - From the 
Forest to the Sea 
The more we begin to understand how forests 
function as ecological systems, the clearer it 
becomes that modern forestry is akin to mining, 
not resource management, and precludes any 
hope of sustainability. In the forefront of scientists 
doing the fieldwork to back up these kinds of 
assertions is Chris Maser. He writes books in a 
style equivalent to an ecological food web — a 
careful look at process via a tangential combina- 
tion of hard science, history and humanistic 
psychology. 
The Redesigned Forest contrasts the ecological 
needs of a forest with current short-rotation 
forestry practices. If you want to understand his 
basic argument, start here. Forest Primeval is a 
biography of an ancient forest in Oregon, from its 
beginnings in the year 988 up to the present. 
From the Forest to the Sea is an example of the 
fieldwork Maser was doing at the Bureau of Land 
Management before he left to become a private 
consultant. It examines what happens to the 
biomass of fallen trees, in the forest, in the 
watershed, and even on the seabed miles off the 
Oregon coastline. —Richard Nilsen 
The Redesigned Forest 
Chris Maser; 1988; 234 pp. 
$12.95 ($14.45 postpaid) from: 
R. & E. Miles, 
P.O. Box 1916 
San Pedro, CA 90733 
(213) 833-8856 4*WEA 
Forest Primeval 
Chris Maser; 1989; 282 pp. 
$25 ($29.50 postpaid) from: 
Sierra Club Books 
730 Polk Street 
San Francisco, CA 94109 
(415) 923-5600 9 WEA 
From the Forest to 
the Sea (A Story of 
Fallen Trees), Chris 
Maser, Robert F. Tarrant, 
James M. Trappe and 
Jerry F. Franklin 
(stock #001-001-00642-4) 
1988; 153 pp. 
$15 (postpaid) from: 
Superintendent of Documents, Govern- 
ment Printing Office, Washington, DC 
20402-8325; (202) 783-3238 
From the Forest 
Bae 
to the Sea: 
H 
© 
A Story of 
H 
Fallen Trees 
When we think of Nature’s forest as a 
commodity, we treat it like one. Because we 
treat it like a commodity, we are trying to 
redesign it to become one. We take a 
system designed by Nature to run in 400- to 
1,200-year cycles and attempt to replace it 
with recurring cycles of only the first 80 to 
GRASS-FORB/ 
Ei | SHRUB-SEEDLING 
INTERNAL SUCCESSION 
| 
DECAY CLASS! 
i= 
CLASSI 
120 years. We do not see the forest. We are so 
obsessed with our small goals that we . 
. 
. rede- 
sign the forest with an instability that cannot be 
repaired with fertilizers, herbicides, or pesticides. 
e@ 
Decades of scientific research have concentrated 
on every possible cause of forest decline except 
that it might be the direct result of intensive 
plantation management based on ignorance of 
forest processes. The forests of central Europe 
are now dying . 
. 
. and we hear much about acid 
fainter 
| agree that atmospheric pollutants may well be 
playing a role in Waldsterben (the dying forest). 
Yet | cannot help but wonder how the cumulative 
effects of a century or more of intensive plantation 
management and use may have strained the 
forests of Central Europe, and thus predisposed 
them to the “Waldsterben syndrome” we see 
today. —The Redesigned Forest 
The Douglas firs in the burn near the spring are 
now 250 years old and between 200 and 220 feet 
talline 
By now, 1237, their crowns have lost much of the 
pyramidal form and have become rounded or 
somewhat flattened. And by the time they are 450 
years old in 1437, their crowns will be cylindrical 
and resemble a bottle brush (albeit one missing 
many bristles). Their trunks will be clear of bran- 
ches from 65 to 130 feet above the ground... 
. 
The upper surfaces of the large branches will 
become covered with perched, organic “soil” 
several inches thick that will support entire com- 
munities of epiphytic plants (plants growing on 
other plants, in this case primarily mosses and 
lichens) and animals. Large branches will become 
the home for myriad invertebrates, as well as 
some birds and a few mammals. 
. . 
. 
A single ancient tree can have over 60 million 
individual needles that have a cumulative weight 
of 440 pounds and a surface area of 30,000 
square feet, or about 1 acre. —Forest Primeval 
e 
A fallen tree interacts with its environment through 
internal surface areas. A newly fallen tree is not 
yet a habitat for plants or most animals. But once 
organisms gain entrance to the interior, they 
consume and break down wood cells and fibers. 
Larger organisms — mites, collembolans, spiders, 
millipedes, centipedes, amphibians, and small 
mammals — must await the creation of internal 
spaces before they can enter. The flow of plant 
and animal populations, air, water, and nutrients 
between a fallen tree and its surroundings in- 
creases as decomposition continues (fig. 2.14). 
—From the Forest to the Sea: 
A Story of Fallen Trees 
Figure 2.14 — Fallen trees progress through two 
simultaneous successional processes — internal 
and external. —From the Forest to the Sea: A Story 
of Fallen Trees 
EXTERNAL SUCCESSION 
POLE-SAPLING 
YOUNG FOREST 
MATURE FOREST 
