2 BASICS 
PURPOSE 
We are as Gods and might as well get good at it. 
So far remotely done power and glory — as via 
government, big business, formal education, 
church — has succeeded to the point where 
gross defects obscure actual gains. In response 
to this dilemma and to these gains, a realm of 
intimate, personal power is developing — the 
power of individuals to conduct their own 
education, find their own inspiration, shape their 
own environment, and share the adventure with 
whoever is interested. Tools that aid this 
process are sought and promoted by the Whole 
Earth Catalogs. 
FUNCTION 
The Whole Earth Ecolog is an evaluation 
and access device. We’re here to point, not to 
sell. We have no financial obligation or 
connection to any of the suppliers listed. We 
only review stuff we think is great; why waste 
your time with anything else? 
UPDATES 
* Our listings are continuously revised and 
updated according to the experience and 
suggestions of our readers and staff. The 
latest news is in our magazine, Whole Earth 
Review. (For subscription information, see p. 
127;) 
How To Susmit SturrF To Us 
You are invited to submit comments, ideas, 
articles, reviews, photographs, and sug- 
gestions. We pay for what we use. For details, 
send SASE to Assistant Editor, 27 Gate Five 
Road, Sausalito, CA 9496;. (415) 332-1716. 
Any book that has indicated #WEA under 
the book ordering information may be 
ordered by mail or telephone from the Whole 
Earth Access in Berkeley, California. This 
company was originally inspired by the 
Whole Earth Catalog more than 20 years 
ago but has always been a separate and 
independent company with no financial ties 
to us. We list them as a convenience to our 
readers, who may want to order from a 
single source instead of dealing with various 
publishers. To order from them: 
1. Start with the list price (not the postpaid 
price). Total the prices of the book(s). Add 
$3 to each order of up to five books, and 50 
- cents for each additional book for postage. 
Orders over 20 books will be charged actual 
UPS shipping rate. For delivery in California, 
add local sales tax. 
2. Beside listing the title and quantity of 
books you want, it is helpful to indicate the 
How To OrperR From Who 
LE EartH Access Company (*WEA) 
How To OrbeER From SupPLIERS 
REviEWweED IN THE ECOLoG 
Consider these points of mail-order etiquette 
essential; they'll make shopping by mail much 
more pleasant for you and the supplier. This 
advice is distilled from the requests of many 
of the firms listed, and from our own 20 years 
of experience. 
|. Do not order anything from us at the Whole 
Earth Ecolog! (Except our own publication, of 
course. See p. 127.) 
2. Don’t order from the excerpts of catalogs 
we review. Send for their brochure or catalog, 
and order from that. 
3. Include payment with your order. Use a 
money order or personal check; cash or stamps 
won't do. You may be able to do charge card 
orders — ask first. Don’t send personal checks 
or U.S. Money Orders overseas. 
4. Include sales tax if the supplier is in your 
state. 
5. Use International Money Orders (IMO) to 
send money abroad. You get them at the Post 
Office. To send money to the U.S. from abroad, 
use IMO or a bank draft in U.S. dollars. 
6. Expect prices to rise. The prices shown in 
the Ecolog are accurate as of July 1990. Most 
firms will write you back if you don’t send 
enough money. Some will bill you for the extra 
amount. 
7. Expect prices to be higher if you live 
outside the continental U.S. It’s best to write 
for the overseas price before ordering. Enclose 
an International Reply Coupon (available at your 
Post Office). Be sure and ask about the price 
difference between sea mail (cheaper, but slow 
and prone to theft) and air mail (quick and 
expensive). We recommend air for most items. 
8. Write legibly. Block print or type. Use printed 
page number they appear on in the 
Ecolog. 
3. Include your street address. All orders 
are shipped UPS, and UPS does not 
deliver to P.O. box numbers. 
4. For foreign orders shipping is $5 for the 
first two books and $1 for each additional 
book. Send check or money order in U.S. 
dollars. 
5. Enclose payment in full with check or 
money order. VISA/MasterCard customers 
print name from card, account number, 
expiration date, and sign your name. 
Send orders, or call in with a credit card, to: 
Whole Earth Access 
2990 Seventh Street 
Berkeley, CA 94710 
(800) 845-2000; (415) 845-3000 
address labels if you have them. That way if 
your scribble can’t be read, at least they'll know 
where it came from. 
9. Write what you want on the envelope. “Mail 
order” or “catalog request” or “subscription 
order” will help prevent the loss of your order. 
10. Be patient. It takes at least two weeks for 
your goods to arrive. Four to six weeks is 
normal, especially if you’ve paid with a personal 
check. Don’t worry too much unless it’s taken 
more than two months. Keep a record of the 
date of purchase, and a photocopy of your 
check, so if your order is lost, you can give 
specific details. Include your full name and 
address (and zip) and order number, if any, 
every time you write. 
11. Be considerate. Don’t send for catalogs just 
to keep your mailbox full. Small companies may 
be swamped by frivolous requests; large ones 
may respond with big minimum orders if 
harassed by dilettantes. If you ask for free 
information, send a stamped, self-addressed 
envelope (SASE). 
You probably don’t have to buy that 
book! Most libraries can get just about 
any book if you’re willing to wait for the 
interlibrary loan network to go through 
its rituals. 
And don’t forget your local book- 
store. You can support your local 
economy, and probably save postage 
and handling charges, by ordering 
through them. 
Copyright © 1990 by Point Foundation 
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced 
or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or 
mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any 
information storage and retrieval system, without permission 
in writing from the publisher. 
Published by Harmony Books, 201 East 50th Street, New 
York, New York, 10022. Member of the Crown Publishing 
Group. 
HARMONY and colophon are trademarks of Crown 
Publishers, Inc. 
Manufactured in the United States of America 
Library of Congress Cataloging in Publication Data 
Whole earth ecolog: tools and ideas for earth-conscious 
living/edited by J. Baldwin. 
p. 
cm. 
Includes index. 
1. Human ecology. 
2. Environmental protection. 
|. Baldwin, J. (James) 
GF50.W46 
1990 
90-42917 
363.7—dc20 
CIP 
ISBN: 0-517-57658-9 
