34 RESTORATION 
Aquatic biologist Bill McLarney is a founder of 
both the New Alchemy Institute (see p. 83) and the 
Costa Rican ecodevelopment group ANAI (formerly, 
Asociacion de los Nuevos Alquimistas). —]B 
Balance of 
ANAT: 
m 
People and 
seeeeeeeee 
ee eee 
Nature 
by Bill McLarney 
HOUGH we may not have foreseen it, those 
of us who pioneered the “Alternatives Move- 
ment” in the seventies would come to a cross- 
roads. One road led to bureaucracy — joining or 
evolving into a “big” organization capable of 
moving large amounts of money and people. 
The gratifications of this road are obvious. Less 
obvious is the apparently ineluctable law that 
large do-gooder organizations must spend a 
high percentage of their budgets on non-essen- 
tial trim. 
Restoring a 
The bumpy road less taken, which should be 
posted “fanatics only,” leads to a high level of 
economic efficiency within a deliberately limited 
area. If the high road may be likened to the R 
and D department of a large industry, the 
fanatics’ road is like the inventor in the garage, 
hoping first that the gadget will work, second 
that it will be used, and finally that it will help 
him make a decent living. 
ANAT has reached the second objective. Not 
only do our ideas — some of them, anyway — 
work, other people and organizations are 
beginning to borrow and adapt them, and we 
find ourselves being cited as among the few 
who are actually implementing “sustainable 
development.” 
Our agroforestry project, which has assisted 
some 1,500 farmers in Costa 
Rica’s canton of Talamanca 
to plant some 2 million crop 
trees, is being emulated in 
other parts of Costa Rica, 
and in Honduras and 
Belize. Though none of us 
were trained as organizers, 
the fact that farmers in 25 
communities have worked 
together voluntarily one 
day a week for over three 
years has brought students 
of community organization 
knocking on our door. Our 
land-titling project, already 
successful in accomplishing 
its stated goals, is begin- 
ning to be studied as one of 
the first efforts to link 
peasant land tenure and 
wildlands conservation. 
While sustainable develop- 
ment is all the rage these 
days, it is being realized 
that Talamanca is one of the 
few places where such seemingly disparate 
elements as a wildlife refuge and a marketing 
cooperative are being fused into a coherent 
whole, based on an idealistic vision of the future 
and a lot of hard work in the present. 
None of this would have happened without the 
kind of fanaticism that perversely finds more 
pleasure rattling down the bumpy road witha 
toolkit behind the seat than in cruising the four- 
lane with an AAA card in one’s pocket. I un- 
blushingly credit myself as the first fanatic. The 
proper way to found an organization is to rent 
A man who knows how to keep things in 
proper perspective, Bill McLarney shows 
the amateurs how the pros spend lunch 
hour. He advises,“Never trust a man who 
owns more than one necktie.” 
an office, hire some administrative help and 
then set up field projects. ANAI began with a 
swampy “farm” purchased for 471 dollars and a 
wild-cane shack with no floor. 
Our paid staff at last count numbered 25, plus 
assorted volunteers and occasional consultants. 
Some were recruited by me, others are “once or 
twice removed,” via Alberto or someone else. 
They comprise a diverse lot of Ticos, Gringos, 
Nicaraguans, Hondurans. . 
. 
. One or two are 
waiting to vote for the first time, while Matute is 
in his late sixties. In terms of formal education 
we range from Matute, who never made it 
to first grade, to yours truly Dr. McLarney. 
But without exception the crew (including 
a couple of non-imbibers) are “good 
drinking company” — people I would 
choose to spend time with even if we 
weren't working together. 
ANAI’s success comes in large part from 
living with the campesinos of Talamanca. 
After one eats a certain amount of rice and 
beans and drinks the requisite amount of 
guaro, irreplaceable friendships with won- 
derful people are formed. But if one is 
honest, one realizes that some of these 
people really are as lazy as the stereotypi- 
cal Mexican under the hat. Some are 
incurably stupid. Some of the most apparently 
generous individuals turn out to be motivated 
solely by plans to rip off the “rich” Gringo. In 
short, they’re just like us. But all of them, the 
thieves and the jerks as surely as the salt of the 
earth, have children who are scraping by ina 
deteriorating environment on criminally low 
incomes and likely receiving an “education” 
which will prepare them to unwittingly make 
things worse for their children. All the children 
deserve better. 
It is possible to simultaneously 
be awed by some campesino’s 
knowledge of a hundred spe- 
cies of forest trees and ap- 
palled to learn that in his mind 
the only realistic options for 
forest management are “cut it 
all down at once” or “cut it all 
down little by little.” One of 
the questions that should fol- 
low this sort of experience is 
“What can I do to help?” Or, 
more specifically, “What do I 
know that they don’t know? 
What door can I help open?” If 
you can’t come up with a 
convincing answer, admit it, 
you're a tourist. 
It comes down to walking a 
tightrope between excess 
humility and paternalism, a 
viewpoint corroborated by 
Thomas F. Carroll and Helga 
Baitenmann of George Wash- 
ington University. In an evalu- 
ation of our work done for the 
Inter-American Foundation, they wrote that “It 
may not be enough to help groups of struggling 
poor people to do what they already know and 
want. .. 
. The ANAI case shows that people at 
the grassroots level often do not ‘know how’ to 
maximize their opportunities because they 
cannot always know what options they have.” 
Part of our job is to point out and cautiously 
recommend some of the options of which we are 
aware. 
An example comes from our agroforestry 
projects. Its start found the campesinos of 
Talamanca reeling from the loss of cacao, their 
only cash crop, to a disease. When we began or- 
ganizing community nurseries in Talamanca we 
envisioned alternatives to cacao — new options 
in the expanding tropical fruit market. The Tala- 
mancans had never heard of an araza or a man- 
gosteen. How then could they imagine who 
might buy such fruits? They wanted disease- 
resistant varieties of cacao and better manage- 
ment techniques. 
The nurseries ended up planting both cacao and 
“the Gringos’ crazy fruits.” One result is that 
Making soil at a community nursery in Talamanca. 
Talamanca is back in the cacao business. But 
management costs are much higher than before, 
and the world price is dropping. And now we 
are hearing of farmers selling araza for the 
equivalent of 65 cents a fruit, or fresh-squeezed 
araza juice at 40 cents a glass. Or we hear of a 
farmer who took a chance and sent four boxes of 
biriba fruit to San José, where it sold out quickly 
at a similar price. And where did you say I 
could get some seed of that new fruit you’ve 
imported from Australia? 
What it is all evolving toward is an integrated 
development plan for Talamanca, which we 
hope will embody lessons and ideas for other 
places with similar needs. But I think it’s impor- 
tant to note that that was not the original goal, 
even though from the beginning it has been 
clear that there was an ultimate need for such a 
plan. Good plans grow from experience, and 
ANAI's first goal was to experience the place, 
the people, the problems. Then to identify one 
project that might do some good if it succeeded 
and not too much damage if it failed. One 
project built the confidence — within and 
outside ANAI — that led to another project. The 
projects began to make linkages which sug- 
gested a “plan,” which now involves multiple 
government and local agencies and thousands of 
campesinos — and changes every day. 
A few funding organizations realize that while 
adversity may build character, we survivors 
have character to spare. But there is still plenty 
of opportunity for others to gain a reputation for 
sagacity by making the same statement of faith 
as ANAI’s $25 and $100 donors who give what 
they can knowing we won't quit until the job is 
done. With more general support and less time 
invested in writing and repackaging proposals, 
we could stretch dollars further and be even 
more efficient in what Carroll and Baitenmann 
identify as “a task that international centers 
cannot themselves do and that few national 
agencies achieve.” 
Where to write 
ANAI gratefully accepts donations, and some- 
times takes on resilient, Spanish-speaking 
volunteers. Write ANAI Incorporated, 1176 
Bryson City Road, Franklin, NC 28734. 
