114 OUTDOOR SKILLS 
The National Outdoor 
Leadership School 
In simple terms, the NOLS goal is this: to teach you 
the skills necessary to survive in the wilderness — 
whether it’s kayaking in Alaska, mountain climbing 
in the Rockies, or backpacking in Africa — and to 
pass through that wilderness without leaving any 
trace of your having been there. Unlike Outward 
Bound, NOLS is not into character development or 
proving yourself. Instead, it teaches only those 
skills directly related to the wilderness experience. 
Both styles have their merits. The fundamental 
difference, | think, is between self-command and 
harmony. Me, I'll take harmony. —Joe Kane 
NOLS also offers semester programs for credit 
—JB 
National Outdoor Leadership School 
Courses $1200-$5800; Catalog free from: 
National Outdoor Leadership School 
P. O. Box AA, Dept WE, Lander, WY 82520 
(307) 332-6973 
ADVENTURE COURSE. Age: 14-15; duration: 30 
days; location: Ranges in Wyoming and Montana. 
An Adventure Course includes all the experiences 
and classes of a Wind River Wilderness Course for 
14- and 15-year-olds. The course is education in 
* action: students learn by doing, not just watching or 
reading about it. 
Peak ascents, introductory rock-climbing, natural 
history instruction and fly fishing are among the 
skills taught on an Adventure Course. In addition to 
learning the basics of these activities, the course 
explores leadership roles and group dynamics. 
Outward Bound 
Now 30 years old, Outward Bound continues to 
offer challenging courses in such skills as climb- 
ing, whitewater running, and blue-water sailing. If 
you're a chickenheart, or think you are, one of 
these courses may be just what you need. Empha- 
sis is on building self-confidence and leadership. 
Special courses can be arranged for executives, 
folks with substance-abuse problems, cancer 
patients unwilling to give up, and other special 
needs. Many participants are women and teens. | 
personally know a number of people who returned 
from Outward Bound courses noticeably changed 
for the better. —JB 
Outward Bound; Courses $400-$2200; Catalog 
free from: Outward Bound/National Office, 384 
Field Point Road, Greenwich, CT 06830; 
(800) 243-8520 
e 
Canoeing for the Disabled/Ablebodied 
Dr. Kurt Hahn, Outward Bound founder, once said, 
“Your disability is your opportunity.” This positive state- 
ment holds particularly true for persons with moderate to 
severe disabilities such as cerebral palsy, hearing impair- 
ment, paraplegia, amputation and:-congenital defects. 
Together with ablebodied persons who are interested in 
working with people with disabilities, you will have the 
chance to gain insights into yourself and others through 
canoeing, rock climbing and other activities. 
CANOE EXPEDITIONING 
VOYAGEUR OB SCHOOL 
No. of 
Minimum 
Date 
Days 
Age 
Tuition 
Course No. 
Canoe Expeditioning, Wilderness Camping, Rock Climbing: Minnesota/Canada 
Border Lake Region 
7-715 
15 
16 
$1200 
MD-469 
NOLS Ranch Manager Paul Davidson explains the 
importance of properly balancing panniers when 
horsepacking. 
Judgment and maturity can blossom in the 
backcountry, where the consequences of decisions 
are Clear. 
Though the Adventure Course curriculum is the 
same as the Wilderness Course, we offer each of 
them as a separate course for the benefit of the 
students. We find that 14- and 15-year-olds learn 
and experience more of the leadership aspect of a 
NOLS course in a group of their peers. College- 
aged and older adults who take Wilderness 
Courses are likely to dominate decision-making 
situations, keeping younger students from gaining 
the full benefit of a NOLS course. 
Helping Out In The 
Outdoors 
When people volunteer everybody is winning. 
Needed jobs get done (cheertully!), and the 
volunteers go home with more than they gave. 
Like to partake? Our parks could use your help. 
Wanted are fire lookouts, craft instructors, trail 
crews, campground hosts, surveyors, and tree 
planters. Experience accepted, willingness 
preferred. Some jobs pay no money, others 
furnish groceries or lodging or gas money, or work 
clothes, and some even pay meagerly. Look over 
this semi-annual directory, decide who to give your 
love to, and write to them early. —Kevin Kelly 
Helping Out in the Outdoors 
$5 (single copy) 96 pp.; Published semi-annually 
in February and August; from: American Hiking 
Society, Attn.: Susan Henley, 1015 31st St. 
N.W. Washington, D.C. 20007; (703) 385-3252 
SOUTH DAKOTA 
BLACK HILLS NATIONAL FOREST 
CUSTER DISTRICT 
The famous Black Hills are located along the western edge 
of South Dakota. Custer District in the southern Black 
Hills offers a variety of opportunities for everyone. 
WILDERNESS RANGERS 
to patrol trails in Harney 
Peak area and Black Elk Wilderness. TRAIL CREW to 
help with backcountry trails. GEOLOGIST-MINERALS 
ASSISTANT to manage mineral resources. RECREA- 
TIONAL AIDE to help with recreation sites. FORESTRY 
AIDE for indoor and outdoor timber management. 
RANGE AIDE for on-the-ground range management. 
CAMPGROUND HOST for several sites. Negotiable sti- 
pend, dorm-style housing, training, supervision, college 
credit by arrangement. 
Contact: District Ranger 
Custer Ranger District 
330 Mt. Rushmore Rd. 
Custer, SD 57730 
Phone: 605/673-4853 
it SE 
ee 
ee ees 
The Tracker School 
Tom Brown, Jr. grew up in the desolate Pine 
Barrens of southern New Jersey. He was schooled 
mercilessly but compassionately in woodscraft by 
his best friend’s father, a Navajo tracker named 
Stalking Wolf. With a consummate storyteller’s 
skill, Mr. Brown tells us how he exchanged his 
small-town-boy’s self-centeredness for the cun- 
ning, observant care, and sheer good heartedness 
of a true tracker. He does this in three books: The 
Tracker (which | like best), The Search, and The 
Vision, masterpieces of how to see and learn. 
These books are an outline for the many hands-on 
courses he teaches near his home (yes, that part 
of NJ is still pretty wild). The courses have inspired 
a whole stack of competent Field Guides that may 
be especially useful to urban dwellers and folks 
who have not been paying attention. There is 
some overlapping of subject matter amongst these 
books; that’s inevitable since they are all manifes- 
tations of the same philosophy. And a commend- 
able phiolosophy it is, in a time where it is increas- 
ingly difficult to tell realism from reality. —JB 
The Tracker School; Courses $565 
The Tracker (The Story of Tom Brown, 
Jr., as told to William Jon Watkins) 
1985 (8th ed.); 229 pp.; $3.95 ($5.45 
postpaid) 
The Search, Tom Brown, Jr., with 
William Owen; 1982; 219 pp.; $7.95 
($9.45 postpaid) 
The Vision, Tom Brown, Jr.; 1988 
241 pp.; $7.95 ($9.45 postpaid) 
Tom Brown’s Field Guides 
(Wilderness Survival, Forgotten Wilder- 
ness) $7.95 ($9.45 postpaid) each; 
(Survival for Children, Observation and 
Tracking, City and Suburban Survival, 
Wild Edible and Medicinal Plants, 
Living with the Earth) $8.95 ($10.45 
postpaid) each. 
All from: 
The Tracker, 
Tom Brown, ur. 
RA@OsBoxal73) 
Asbury, NJ 
08802-0173 
(201) 479-4681 
*KWEA 
He was so light and frail that | could hardly feel 
him. The remaining blood that dripped from his 
neck felt hot and heavy as it ran down my chest 
and back. | hated Grandfather and | 
felt bitter. 
| wandered back to camp, my mind twisted with 
rage, and | knew what | had to do. | was going to 
walk into camp, drop the little deer at Grand- 
father’s feet, and walk out of the woods forever. If 
this was what survival, what being a man, and 
what the doorway to the spiritual world were all 
about, then | wanted nothing to do with them. As | 
approached the camp, | noticed Grandfather 
leaning against a tree and watching me. A wry 
smile was held motionless on his face and pene- 
trated my soul, causing me to despise him even 
more. As | neared him, he lost the smile and his 
face went blank, except for his piercing eyes. His 
look made me feel like he had been where | was 
once before, and his words shook my foundations 
and broke the back of my hatred. Before | could 
utter a word, he pointed that old gnarled finger at 
me and spoke. “Grandson, when you can feel the 
same way about a blade of grass plucked from the 
ground as you do for that little deer, then and only 
then will you be ‘one’ with all things.” —The Vision 
