44 FARMING 
A.tHoucH megafarms will continue to be an important part of the 
food production business, I don’t think the future belongs to them 
at all, despite the predictions of wishful-thinking agribusiness 
interests. The real action is going to occur in comparatively small- 
scale food production systems now sprouting up everywhere, and 
in those which have handily survived the economic crunch of the 
eighties. In short, there is no better time than right now for dedi- 
cated young people, determined to own and operate their own 
businesses, to make it in agriculture. —Gene Logsdon 
“The Future: More Farmers Not Fewer,” Whole Earth Review, Spring 1989. 
SS 
ae ee 
The Unsettling of America 
Our land is more undone by our agriculture than 
by any other mischief. Farmer, poet, essayist 
Wendell Berry speaks to the matter with plain 
speech — it rasps the brain, leaves a memory of 
the thought. Don’t say it is no longer possible to do 
our farming right. Berry is. —Stewart Brand 
The Unsettling of America 
Gaui 
(Culture & Agriculture) Wendell 
of America 
Berry; 1986; 228 pp.; $7.95 
($10.95 postpaid) from: 
Wendell 
Berry 
Sierra Club Books, 730 Polk St. 
= 
San Francisco, CA 94109 
(415) 923-5500 
WEA 
A part of the health of a farm is the farmer’s wish 
to remain there. His long-term good intention 
toward the place is signified by the presence of 
trees. A family is married to a farm more by their 
planting and protecting of trees than by their 
memories or their knowledge, for the trees stand 
for their fidelity and kindness to what they do not 
know. The most revealing sign of the ill health of 
industrial agriculture — its greed, its short-term 
ambitions — is its inclination to see trees as 
obstructions and to strip the land bare of them. 
e 
Social fashion, delusion, and propaganda have 
combined to persuade the public that our agricul- 
ture is for the best of reasons the envy of the 
Modern World. American citizens are now ready to 
believe without question that it is entirely good, a 
grand accomplishment, that each American farmer 
now “feeds himself and 56 others.” They are 
willing to hear that “96 percent of American man- 
power is freed from food production” — without 
asking what it might have been “freed” for, or how 
many as a consequence have been “freed” from 
employment of any kind. 
Altars of Unhewn Stone 
Wes Jackson continues his radical prescriptions 
for America’s agricultural future with this collection 
of essays. His scientific credentials and practical 
farming experience, combined with his humor, 
humility and a God-fearing respect for man’s cor- 
rect relationship to the natural environment, make 
him unique among agricultural writers. Following 
the contours of his arguments, you are led in 
directions far from the mainstream. Here is a man 
who looks at the last fifty-odd years of our agricul- 
tural program and concludes, “Where we were 
then [1935] was a better takeoff point for where we 
need to be than where we are now. There was 
more resilience in the culture at large because 
more people were on the land.” —Richard Nilsen 
e 
There is more to be discovered than invented, and 
the future of the human species on this planet will 
depend more on discovery than on invention. Long 
ago, Charles Lindbergh said, “The future of the 
human race will depend on combining the clever- 
The Farming Game 
The Farming Game 
Farms and farmers have been disappearing in 
large numbers in America since the 1950s. The 
Farming Game explains the arithmetic that has 
greased this economic slide, and also suggests 
strategies for people interested in surviving this 
trend and farming in the future. Bryan Jones has a 
style reminiscent of Will Rogers — an ear for ironic 
humor, political savvy, and a simmering contempt 
for bureaucratic institutions (big banks, govern- 
ment, universities). His lectures on profit and 
advice on diversification are the perfect antidote 
for romantic agrarian notions. This is a book that 
any beginner will need and anyone with experi- 
ence will nod at knowingly. —Richard Nilsen 
e 
| have never owned any sheep. 
To make a living you'd have to 
have a couple of thousand of ‘em 
and that’s a lot of baa-baas. 
—B.J. Tupper 
Owning sheep is not one of your 
major status symbols in this country. In the rural 
community it is regarded as considerably less than 
that. It is a very similar situation to that of the 
successful surgeon who complains that his 
garbage man makes more money than he does 
but does not then rush out and buy a garbage 
truck. The sheep business, like the garbage 
business, has some odious connotations. Sheep 
are regarded as stupid, smelly, and quite likely to 
die for no reason. Sheep men reinforce the 
prejudice by wearing oil-caked hats and driving 
ancient pickup trucks. Indeed, within the sheep 
industry the folks with the cruddiest, sloppiest hats 
and the most rust-encrusted pickups are regarded 
as very superior fellows. Red 1952 Chevy pickups 
with wood stock racks and spotlights are the 
vehicles of choice, although there are some die- 
hard Studebaker drivers out there who are 
downright snobbish. 
Altars of Unhewn Stone 
Wes Jackson; 1987; 158 pp. 
$9.95 ($11.45 postpaid) from: 
North Point Press, 850 Talbot 
Avenue, Berkeley, CA 94706 
(415) 527-6260 
«WEA 
ness of science with the wisdom of nature.” But 
through domestication we have removed our 
major crops so far from their original context that 
most farmers (and | suspect, most agricultural 
researchers) regard both crops and livestock as 
more the property of humans than relatives of wild 
things. Yet all of these creatures evolved in eco- 
systems that had little to do with humans. None of 
these ecosystems was of our design. Somewhere 
in the midst of this thinking and research the 
scripture in Exodus 20:25, from which the title of 
this book came, took on a deeper meaning for us. 
Right after Moses had delivered the Ten Com- 
mandments, he received instructions to build an 
altar of unhewn stone “for if thou lift up thy tool 
upon it, thou has polluted it.” 
The Farming Game 
Bryan Jones; 1986 
ene 
221 pp.; $19.95 ($21.95 
rad 
postpaid) from: University 
§— 
of Nebraska Press 
901 North 17th St. 
Lincoln, NE 68588 
(402) 472-3584 «WEA 
With all their personal freedom, farmers may be 
the most financially exploited class in the nation. 
Governments kowtow to consumers by holding 
down farm prices, local governments tax farm- 
lands at ruinous rates, and eastern elitists are 
continually conspiring to drive a few hundred 
thousand people from the farm to cheapen up the 
labor market. Nonetheless, the sheer size of the 
parasitic industries that farmers support (farm 
equipment, banking, chemical, fertilizer, land-grant 
universities, and transportation) attest to the 
tremendous wealth generated by farmers every 
year. 
fee 21 SOG 
nib ARS aoa Ay Se er as fae oA 
See | 
The New Farm 
This magazine is “dedicated to putting people, 
profit and biological permanence back into farming 
by giving farmers the information they need to take 
charge of their farms and their futures.” It is run by 
a non-profit organization and is the best single 
source for economically sound alternative tech- 
niques for commercial farmers. —Richard Nilsen 
The New Farm 
George DeVault 
Editor 
$15/year 
(7 issues) 
The New Farm 
Box 14 
Emmaus, PA 
18099-0014 
sep 7 3B 
wew Form 
BF 
1 REGENERATIVE AGRICES 
If you’re doing all you can to keep livestock costs 
low and you still have trouble making ends meet, 
consider diversifying into rare breeds or so-called 
“exotic” animals. It’s a good way to help preserve 
the genetic diversity of livestock and tap profitable 
niche markets at the same time. 
... The Tamworth hog would be a good candidate 
for organic pork production because of its hardi- 
ness and extra lean meat, suggests Carolyn 
Christman, program coordinator of the American 
; 
Minor Breeds Conservancy. Plus, it can be raised 
outdoors on forage, she notes. 
Scotch Highland cattle offer the same opportuni- 
ties. As the name implies, they developed under 
the extremely harsh conditions of the remote 
Highlands of Scotland. They require little in the 
way of shelter, grain or feed supplements to 
maintain good condition, and they even seem to 
enjoy cold weather and snow. 
.. 
. 
Because Scotch Highland cattle are insulated by 
their long hair, they have little outside waste fat — 
a prime selling point to today’s cholesterol- 
conscious shoppers. 
e 
There’s a kind of interactive diversity that goes on 
in nature. For example, during the ’88 drought, we 
found cactus growing in our native prairie pas- 
tures. | don’t know where it came from. But it was 
there, waiting for the right conditions. | don’t know 
anything as diverse and stable as a prairie. We 
need to look at how we can manage our farms to 
mimic that stability. —Fred Kirschenmann, who 
farms 3000 acres near Windsor, North Dakota. 
