Nontoxic, Natural & 
Earthwise - The Earthwise 
Consumer 
Debra Lynn Dadd’s Non- 
toxic, Natural & Earthwise 
adds the best one yet to her 
& 
impressive output of how- 
to-live-without-toxics books. 
She’s outdone herself this 
time, not only giving us a 
quick education in what's 
undesirable in conventional 
goods, but the remedies as 
well: 400 recipies for home-made nontoxic house- 
hold products, plus 600 sources for store-bought 
versions. Her choices and recommendations, and 
the reasons for them, are all explained in terms 
even a grade-school kid can understand. Fortu- 
nately, she is not tempted by the opportunity for 
polemics and sinner-smiting, though I'd appreciate 
a bit more criticism of eco-faddish nostrums (hard 
to do unless you have a well-equipped laboratory). 
Unlike most Earth-Saving books, the advice in this 
one is of direct, immediate, personal benefit. She 
promises regular updates. My guess is that much 
of the updating will take place in The Earthwise 
Consumer, a skinny newsletter she already 
publishes, and her column that appears regularly 
in other publications such as the Self Care 
Catalog on this spread. Another good example of 
one dedicated person making a difference. —JB 
Naat: 
oo, 
Earthiwvise 
Nontoxic, Natural & 
Earthwise, Debra Lynn 
Dadd; 1990; 320 pp., 
$10.95 ($12.95 postpaid) 
*WEA 
The Earthwise 
Consumer Debra Lynn 
Dadd; $20/year (8 issues) 
Both from: 
The Earthwise Consumer 
P. O. Box 279 
Forest Knolls, CA 94933 
One of my most frequently asked questions is 
“What about Amway, NeoLife, and Shaklee 
products?” You may notice they are conspicuously 
absent from these pages. There are two reasons. 
For many years | have been trying to get ingredi- 
ents lists for the cleaning products made by these 
companies and | finally got a list for one of the 
companies. Without going into detail, the general 
ingredients were synthetic detergents, optical 
brighteners, some animal ingredients, fragrances, 
and artificial colors. Also, there is some question 
as to whether these companies test on animals. 
Some animal rights organizations report yes, 
others say no. Since there are plenty of other 
cleaning products available that have more natural 
ingredients and clearly don’t test on animals, | 
have listed those instead. 
—Nontoxic, Natural & Earthwise 
PE) 
Great tasting 100% organic baby food. 
You want your baby to have the best of everything...especially food, because a long, healthy life 
depends on getting a safe, healthy start. Unfortunately, much of today’s modern farming 
technology makes it difficult to feed our children food that is both nutritious and free from 
chemicals. We've searched the country to find the best possible baby food...and it turns out to 
be made right here in Vermont. Earth's Best certifies that all their foods start with only 100% 
certified organic fruits and vegetables; produce grown without chemical pesticides and in 
organic soil that’s rich in nutrients. To preserve all that goodness they use a special quick, high- 
temperature cooking process that seals in the greatest amount of vitamins, nutrients, and 
flavor...so each and every jar tastes fresh and delicious. Give your baby the nutrition and great 
taste of 100% organically grown foods. Twenty-four 4.5 oz jars to a case, Or try 6 of our most 
popular fruits and vegetables in a special sampler pack. 
Flavors include: Apple, Apple/Blueberry, Apple/Apricot, Apple/Plum, Apple/Banana, Banana, 
Carrots, Sweet Potatoes, Peas/Brown Rice, Green Beans/Brown Rice, Plum/Banana/Rice, Peach/ 
Oatmeal/Banana. Cereal flavors are Brown Rice or Mixed Grain. 
11-008 One Case (1 flavor per case, please Choose flaVOF) ........eseeesesrseseesenenssencnrersnssees $19.95 
11-009 Mixed Case (we mix with a selection of fruits and vegetables) ............sss000 $19.95 
See Also... 
More healthy stuff, pages 108-109. 
Ecologue 
It's spelled differently than the one you're holding, 
but the spirit is similar, and so is much of the 
menu. (When editor Bruce Anderson and | discov- 
ered we'd chosen the same name for our books, 
we gulped once or twice, shook hands telephoni- 
cally, and informed our respective publishers that 
we were colleagues and did not care to fight about 
it. To their credit, and our immense relief, they 
agreed.) 
This encouragingly useful book concentrates on 
environmentally respectable products — which 
ones are OK, and why, and how you can decide 
for yourself. The selection and spotlight is different 
from that of conceptually similar rivals, including us 
(we’re more network and principle-oriented) and 
Debra Lynn Dada’s book (more into health) on this 
page — there’s a lot out there to cover. Unlike 
save-the-world books, thing catalogs, like this one, 
offer moves you can make right now without 
waiting for the rest of society to change first. 
Changing your buying habits can be done one 
product at a time. Every little bit counts. —JB 
Ecologue 
(The Environmental 
Catalogue and 
Consumer's Guide 
for a Safe Earth) 
Bruce Anderson, Editor 
1990; 256 pp.; $18.95 
Prentice Hall Press 
Check your local 
bookstore WEA 
SS 
ae 
esas 
aa 
ae 
i ee em i ee 
Seventh Generation 
The “Squash a Can for Gaia” books infesting this 
Earth Day Anniversary year make good sugges- 
tions, but rarely get into specifics. Where do you 
get toilet paper made from recycled material? And 
no local store has even heard of organic babyfood, 
much less solar battery chargers and natural- 
ingredient household cleaners (that work — not all 
do), much less eco-chic T-shirts, interesting toys, 
and, well, the stuff that Seventh Generation stocks 
in their handsome, tempting catalog. It’s trustable 
stuff, too — no crystals or little magnets that you 
tie to your car’s gas line for “26% more ecologi- 
cally wonderful gas mileage.” The Seventh 
Generation folks must be doing a good job; 
business has been growing at a rate Wall Street 
types have been saying is impossible for this sort 
of enterprise. By the way, Easterners, they stock 
many of Rising Sun’s (p. 60) bulbs, too. And they 
do wholesale; schools take note. —JB 
Seventh Generation 
Catalog free from: 10 Farrell Street 
South Burlington, VT 05403; (800) 456-1177 
STAYING HEALTHY 65 
ia 
ee nee ae eed 
The Body Shop 
Anita Roddick has rightly won fame and fortune 
with a store selling body-care products made as 
much as possible of natural materials, and sold for 
health rather than beauty reasons. (If you’re 
healthy, beauty will come naturally.) The Body 
Shop eschews fancy sexist advertisements, 
aerosols and other gross packaging, and animal 
testing. Ingredients are sourced from many third- 
world countries, with due respect maintained for 
the welfare of local people and their surroundings. 
“Trade, not Aid” is the motto. Satisfied customers 
abound. So do imitators, but they just don’t seem 
to have Ms. Roddick’s touch: there are now more 
than 400 Body Shops around the world. And now 
mail-order, too. —JB 
shore 
The Body Shop; Catalog $2 from: 
The Body Shop, Inc., 45 Horsehill Road 
Hanover Technical Center, Cedar Knolls, NJ 
07927-2003; (800) 541-2535 
Consumer Reports 
The consumer's first line of defense is the crew at 
Consumers Union. Not only do they publish the 
authoritative (no advertising) Consumer Reports 
magazine, they sell a large assortment of books, 
some of which concern health matters. Quacks 
are revealed, fads deflated, and the proven is 
celebrated. They of course take some flak from 
stung frauds and their adherents, as well as folks 
taking one of the less accepted alternative paths. 
That doesn’t mar CU’s usefulness one bit. There’s 
a Canadian version, too. —JB 
Consumer Reports 
$20/year (11 issues, plus 
Buying Guide) from: 
Consumer Reports 
Subscription Department 
Box 53009 
Boulder, CO 80321-3009 
EW AUTO 
| 
BENCHMARKS? 
SHAKE, 
Canadian Consumer 
Resreont 
$28/year (12 issues) from: 
aa 
Candian Consumer 
Box 9300 
Ottawa, Ontario 
K1G 3T9 Canada 
To simulate real-life stroller use, we loaded test 
models with a 20-kilogram sandbag and took them 
for a lengthy “carousel” ride over obstacles such 
as a gravel patch and a curb-like ramp. 
—Canadian Consumer 
