110 ORGANIZATIONS 
WHENEVER I think of do-gooding, I recall my 
grandmother's guilt-inducing comment regarding 
my rejected plate of spinach: “Think of the 
starving Armenians.”(Armenia was in trouble at 
the time.) My defending grandfather then replied 
laconically, “Name two”. He didn’t believe in 
long-distance charity. As the proprietor of the 
modest pharmacy in a small Iowa town, he 
distributed what little largesse he could afford by 
refusing to take money from depression-stressed 
people who needed medicine. 
His decision was easy; those folks were neighbors 
he’d known for years. Your decision is harder. 
How do you decide which of the hundreds of 
worthy environmental organizations gets your 
money? Grandfather offers us a clue: Let your 
heart tell you. Our house naturalist, Peter 
Warshall, recommends supporting favorite proj- 
ects, rather than giving general support to an 
organization, some of whose divisions may 
engage in enterprises you don’t agree with. Check 
an organization’s brochure to see what they’re up 
to these days. Look for projects that excite you. If 
you give to a biggie like the Sierra Club, earmark 
your contribution specifically for, say, beach clean- 
up or streambank improvement, or lobbying 
efforts. Some may be under the direction of a local 
chapter in your area. Many organizations will 
furnish you with a list of their current endeavors, 
their locations, and which are most in need. “I 
*gave” isn’t nearly as satisfying as being able to say 
“I’m involved in the Turtle Creek cleanup”. 
Even better is to support local organizations where 
you can actually participate. That way, you can 
keep an eye on how your money is being used, 
and you can enjoy the ultimate morale-boost of 
seeing real progress made by your own efforts. It’s 
common to find small, local committees formed to 
accomplish a single project. You could start one. 
While a bit short on international prestige, they 
are often the most effective in solving problems 
directly affecting their members. Their low over- 
head means more action for the money. Once you 
have “your” project, you may find that mere 
checkwriting won’t do anymore. You'll be in the 
thick of things, making your support an integral 
part of your life. Good place to make some 
stalwart friends, too. 
Awkward Note: It would have been nice to list all 
existing environmentally righteous organizations 
here, but that’s another book. No slight intended 
to any. You'll also find some scattered amongst 
various departments of the Ecolog. — JB 
Earth Island Institute 
This is where David Brower hangs his hat these 
days. Earth Island is a bit different in that it 
coordinates and shares office space with other 
cooperating organizations (some featured in this 
Ecolog) — a power-increasing idea that also 
reduces needless competition on our side of the 
fence. There are also widely scattered “Earth 
Island Centers”, other organizations that act more 
or less as local chapters. The Earth Island 
Journal is one of the better front-line magazines 
around. Earth Islanders still have the bloodboiling 
vigor and sass of a relatively new and tumultous 
group. —JB 
Earth Island Institute 
$25/year (membership 
includes 4 issues of 
Earth Island Journal) 
from: Earth Island 
Institute, 300 Broadway 
Suite 28, San Francisco, 
CA 94133-3312 
(415) 788-3666 
EARTH ISRAN dD. 
Americo’s tvory War 
| 
en 
Mere 
National Audubon Society 
The strength of Audubon since 1905 has been its 
naturalist backbone. More than any other environ- 
mental organization, its members actually know 
the animals and plants they try to conserve. Not 
only that, they seem to love their knowledge with 
early naturalist enthusiasm. The educational 
aspects of Audubon are truly admirable. Their 
politics vary locally and, if you contribute, it's good 
to earmark your contribution for a particular 
purpose, especially for specific sanctuaries. 
—Peter Warshall 
National Audubon 
Society; $30/year (mem- 
bership includes 6 issues 
of Audubon magazine) 
Join your local chapter or 
contact: National 
Audubon 
Society, P. O. Box 52529 
Boulder, CO 80322 
(800) 274-4201 
icine 
a 
-galt 
eS 
ee. 
Among the highly valued products of Louisiana's 
coastal wetlands are food and family recreation. 
Sierra Club 
Venerable, powerful, and, to the impatient, exces- 
sively prone to compromise with The Good Old 
Boys, the Sierra Club carries on the work it’s been 
up to for nearly a century. Nobody questions their 
effectiveness, that’s beyond dispute. But there are 
plenty of questions about focus, policy, and willing- 
ness to cut a deal with the enemy. It isn’t unusual 
to find different chapters or factions within the 
Sierra Club sniping at each other or even working 
at cross-purposes. While this may be distressing, it 
is no surprise to folks who are used to dealing with 
the realities of tough, ill-defined, emotion-stirring 
problems. Frontier work always engenders contro- 
versy while the best way of doing something is 
being extracted from a tangle of conflicting inter- 
ests and philosophies. In any case, sneers are not 
in order. Earth First! (see p. 107), Greenpeace 
(see p. 106), and other dramatic activists have 
their place, and so do the Sierra Club forces — 
besneakered or besuited (sometimes simultane- 
ously both) — who are past masters at getting 
things done in Washington as well as in the bush. 
And you might be surprised (I was) at the breadth 
of Sierra Club efforts. In addition to the expected 
media-attended action, the Club runs one of the 
best presses around (see p.112), a host of educa- 
tional programs, tours and outings, and a system 
of networks organized to deal with specific prob- 
lems requiring immediate attention. Check your 
nearby chapter and their newsletter for local 
action. A national membership gets you Sierra, a 
spiffy mag. —JB 
Sierra Club; $33/year 
(membership includes six 
issues of Sierra); contact 
local chapter or write to: 
Sierra Club, Dept. J-420 
P. O. Box 7959 
San Francisco, CA 94120 
ee 
a ee 
Friends Of The Earth 
FOE now include the Oceanic Society (see review 
p. 15) and the Environmental Policy Institute in 
their ranks, adding commendable breadth to their 
already considerable capabilities. 37 chapters and 
50,000 members around the world take care of 
business. Your support is rewarded with a sub- 
scription to Friends Of The Earth, one of the best 
sources of eco-action news. You can also sub- 
scribe to Atmosphere -- an ozone newsletter and 
of course, FOE has a long list of other publica- 
tions. —JB 
Friends Of The Earth; $25/year (membership, 
includes 10 issues of Friends Of The Earth 
newsmagazine and a membership kit) 
Atmosphere Newsletter; $15/year (4 issues) 
Publications list free 
All from: 
Friends Of The Earth, 218 D Street, SE 
Washington, DC 20003; (202) 544-2600 
e 
You need all the help you can get, so a further 
caution seems in order. While working on the side 
of the angels, you might actually detect contradic- 
tions in what people say and what they do. No 
kidding. You might hear, for example, some 
earnest fellow preaching a sermon on “coopera- 
tion and sharing as the key to the planet's salva- 
tion.” He’s so eloquent and sincere that it brings 
tears to your eyes. Later on, you discover that if 
his life depended on it, this guy wouldn’t share so 
much as a pizza. What’s more, you learn that he’s 
just sold his grandmother for a chance to appear 
on the Today show. And now he wants to be 
named leader. 
No wonder you opt for a collective. Social move- 
ments favor this notion (especially in their early 
stages), touting it as proof of their devotion to 
democratic ideals. But instead of reducing compe- 
tition within the group, as claimed, collegial 
leadership actually increases it. When a throne is 
available, everyone imagines themselves king. I’ve 
found collegial leadership to be nothing more than 
a bad joke, utterly failing to disguise the frenzied 
conflict over power taking place backstage. 
Among the righteous, this war of ambitions is 
certainly unseemly. But — to give the devil his — 
personal competition over leadership can benefit 
the cause. It does stimulate everyone to show 
their stuff. —Byron Kennard, Friends Of The Earth 
The Trust For Public Land 
Problem: a wonderful old building is about to be 
destroyed. There’s no time for legislative action to 
save it. Problem: a couple thousand acres of 
pristine scenery has been put up for sale. Realty 
developers are eyeing it hungrily, but it really 
ought to be a park. Can the state get the money 
together in time? TPL specializes in the quick 
move. They arrange to hold the land or historical 
site until it can be purchased for use as a public 
resource — a process that typically takes consid- 
erable time. They’ve temporarily protected nearly a 
half-million acres so far. TPL is not an advocacy 
organization — you can't even join ‘em! But you 
can contribute to their important work financially 
and by calling them in when things need to 
happen fast. True Earth-Saving, this is. —JB 
The Trust For Public 
Land; Information free 
Send donations to: 
The Trust For Public Land 
116 New Montgomery, 
4th Floor, San Francisco 
CA 94105; (415) 495-4014 
