The Forest and the Trees: A 
Guide to Excellent Forestry 
In 1966 the Sierra Club hired their first prcfession- 
al forester in order to respond to the accelerating 
timber harvests of the U.S. Forest Service. Gordon 
Robinson, the author of this book, was that man. 
As chief forester of the Southern Pacific Land 
Company, he already had a whole career’s expe- 
rience with forest management. He also had a 
collection of index cards with relevant facts and 
citations about good forest practices. That experi- 
ence and those index cards (nearly 400 of them), 
plus the history and science of American forestry, 
and Robinson's own philosophy, are all in this 
book. 
What is meant by “excellent” forestry is uneven- 
aged harvesting of trees, not mono-cropping and 
Woodland Ecology 
Seventy-three percent of the forest land in the 
eastern United States is held by private, nonindus- 
trial owners, according to the author. He considers 
the eastern hardwood forest types and explains 
very basic woodland ecology and discusses the 
options a small owner has in deciding how to 
maintain and use his woods. The book includes an 
extensive appendix of references, well annotated, 
and a section on growing and using wood for fuel. 
—Richard Nilsen 
(Far right) A forest managed for integrated uses. 
This scene shows improvement cutting on the left 
leaving the good immature trees to grow. Near the 
center a group of trees has been harvested, and 
sapling reproduction is occupying the opening. A 
FORESTS 17 
Secrets of the 
Old Growth Forest 
How easy it is to look with scorn and frustration at 
the destruction of tropical rainforests today. How 
hard to recognize our own destruction of a compa- 
rable domestic treasure. The old-growth forest of 
the Pacific Northwest is Canada’s and America’s 
ancient biological wonder. Here are trees hun- 
dreds of feet high that aren’t “mature” until 250 
years and often live a thousand. We are destroy- 
ing the last remnants of this treasure at a time 
when science is just beginning to understand how 
it functions and sustains itself as a biological 
system. 
It's rare to find a book that instructs with as much 
eloquence and beauty as this one does. When 
information is also aesthetic — like the color pho- 
tographs throughout this book — it makes a 
deeper impression. Peregrine Smith Books has 
made a business out of doing right by books on 
worthy subjects, and this volume is one of their 
best ever. —Richard Nilsen 
e 
As of 1988 most Americans had never even heard 
of old growth. Still, one wonders how many 
Americans besides the members of Ducks Unlim- 
ited and the Audubon Society could have defined 
habitat in 1932. It is interesting to note that FDR 
allowed Aldo Leopold to create the national wildlife 
The largest trees of the Pacific Northwest old 
growth, redwoods commonly attain diameters of 
10 feet and heights of 300 feet in a narrow zone in 
northern California and southern Oregon. This is 
the greatest forest on Earth in terms of total 
weight of plant life — twice as massive as the 
tropical forests. All but 4 percent has been logged 
off since the nineteenth century. 
not clear-cutting. For anyone owning forested land 
or dealing with timber companies or the Forest 
Service, this is an essential and welcome book. 
—Richard Nilsen 
e 
The Forest Service was once proud to implement 
the principles of multiple use and did so for many 
years. It is still bound by law to do so under the 
Multiple Use-Sustained Yield Act of 1960. 
However, in recent years the Forest Service has 
turned its back on its tradition and substituted 
“dominant use” — timber production — in its man- 
agement of the nation’s commercial timberland. 
Clearcutting has become the norm rather than the 
exception. If the agency is allowed to continue on 
its present course, the nation’s old-growth forests 
will vanish forever, perhaps as soon as the end of 
this century. 
. 
.. And when the old 
Woodland Ecology (Environmental 
Forestry for the Small Owner) 
Leon S. Minckler; 1980; 241 pp. 
$14.95 ($16.95 postpaid) from: 
Syracuse University Press, 1600 
Jamesville Avenue, Syracuse, NY 
13244-5160; (315) 443-5534 4 WEA 
large den tree in the foreground, two beautiful 
white birch in the background, and a hemlock 
along the stream have been left. Note the piles of 
brush for wildlife. This is a northern hardwood 
forest, and trees of yellow birch, black cherry, 
beech, red oak, and sugar maple can be identified. 
The deer herd should also be managed because 
too many deer will consume new regeneration of 
forest trees. When woodlands are interspersed 
with fields, however, deer find much of their food, 
Secrets of the Old 
Growth Forest 
David Kelly and Gary 
Braasch; 1988; 128 pp. 
$15.95 ($17.95 post- 
paid) from: Peregrine 
Smith Books, P.O. Box 
667, Layton UT 84041 
(801) 544-9800 * WEA 
refuge system purely to get the duck hunters off 
his back. He never intended to fund it. He put the 
famous editorial cartoonist Ding Darling, who was 
a conservative Republican, in charge of the new 
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and gave him 
scarcely enough money for office supplies. Darling 
finally tricked the president by getting a rider 
attached to an omnibus bill that FDR signed, 
unread, just as he was leaving the White House 
for a fishing trip. It was weeks before anyone 
realized that Darling’s rider was a appropriation of 
six million dollars for Leopold’s refuges. 
Darling’s chicanery undoubtedly saved many 
species from extinction. Together with the Cana- 
dian lands bought or leased by a new private 
organization, Ducks Unlimited, the new refuges 
became the basis for what is by far the greatest 
international conservation success story in history. 
e 
The best knowledge we possess suggests that a 
short-rotation managed forest on these soils will 
become increasingly expensive to maintain by the 
artificial means required as the nutrient levels 
drop. . 
. 
. There is worldwide evidence that artificial 
forestry simply doesn’t work. In parts of Europe 
three short rotations have been sufficient to 
thoroughly deplete the forest soil; while in much of 
China, it has taken only two. 
growth is gone, surely there will be a concerted 
effort by the timber industry to log the wilderness 
areas and parks as well. 
Is this the direction in which we want to go? Or 
can we citizens, the owners of these old-growth 
forests, using the information in this book and 
others and the findings from the Forest Service’s 
own research stations, succeed in convincing the 
agency to take a more prudent path? 
—— 
The Forest and the Trees 
THE s 
FOREST 
(A Guide to Excellent Forestry) 
zs 
Gordon Robinson 
g 
nT 
1988; 257 pp.; $19.95 ($21.95 
postpaid) from: Island Press 
P.O. Box 7, Covelo, CA 95428 
(800) 828-1302 %*WEA 
outside the woodlands. The woodland owner lives 
in an idealized setting with a pile of wood for the 
fireplace from the thinnings and the tops of sawlog 
trees. 
