RESTORATION 37 
public. He would have liked 
nothing better than to claim the re- 
discovery of a bird that had been 
presumed extinct. Nevertheless, 
he continued to be confused 
between the cahow and the 
shearwater and his photographs 
confirm that the shearwater was 
once again the only species 
whose nests were found. It was 
Dr. Robert Cushman Murphy, Cu- 
rator of Birds at the American 
Museum of Natural History and a 
world authority on seabirds, who 
eventually provided the identifica- 
tion of this second known cahow 
specimen. 
When World War II broke out, 
Bermuda’s strategic location 
resulted in an airport. The airport 
greatly facilitated the process of 
new plant and animal introduc- 
tions, especially those species (such as insects) 
with a short life span, which had previously had 
difficulty surviving the transit time to the islands. In 
the mid-1940s two small scale insects were 
accidentally imported to Bermuda on ornamental 
junipers from California. The Bermuda cedar 
(actually a juniper) had evolved in isolation from 
such pests and had no natural resistance to these 
scales. There were no parasites or predators to 
keep them under control. In the space of only 
three years, between 1948 and 1952, more than 
96 percent of those trees which had formed a 
virtual monoculture on the island, were destroyed. 
It was a harsh reminder, once again, of the eco- 
Bermuda 
Newsbureau 
The beginnings of restoration: native palmettos 
planted amid the dead cedars, 1964. 
logical fragility that is so characteristic of oceanic 
island fauna and flora. 
Due to the cedar forest decimation, for the first 
time in their history Bermudians began to think 
seriously about the need for conservation. No 
event could have been more timely to focus this 
concern, or to give hope that all need not be lost, 
than the rediscovery in 1951 of the cahow by Dr. 
Robert Cushman Murphy and Louis S. Mowbray. 
It seemed inconceivable that the cahow, the most 
vulnerable species of all, which had declined to 
oblivion within the first few years of Bermuda’s 
settlement, could possibly have survived up to and 
beyond such recent traumatic events as the bull- 
dozing of the airport — which destroyed more than 
half of its original nesting islands — and the loss of 
the cedar. Nevertheless, a third cahow was found 
washed up dead on the beach of Cooper’s Island 
in 1945 and provided the inspiration for a last-ditch 
search expedition. 
| was only a schoolboy at the time, but my budding 
interest in birds secured me an invitation to join 
ol 
“By Gad, the cahow!”, 1951. 
the expedition on the day of rediscovery and | will 
never forget the elation on Dr. Murphy’s face when 
he and Mowbray succeeded in noosing a bird out 
of its deep nesting crevice, held it up to the light, 
and exclaimed, “By Gad, the cahow!” 
Incredibly it had survived for over three and a half 
centuries on a few inconsequential offshore islets, 
totalling no more than three acres in area, which 
the mammal predators had been unable to colo- 
nize. The government immediately declared these 
islands sanctuaries in 1951 and a conservation 
programme was launched to try to help the bird. 
To replace the dead cedar forest, a massive refor- 
estation programme was begun at about the same 
time. The emphasis was on fast-growing exotic 
species like the Australian casuarina tree and a 
variety of more colourful ornamentals such as the 
poinciana. Concentrated on roadsides and govern- 
ment-owned lands at first, it eventually led to the 
establishment of parks and formal gardens for the 
recreational benefit of the general public. 
The decade of the 1960s saw such a rape of the 
environment for new real estate subdivisions that 
the government was forced to act by imposing 
stringent new planning regulations. But even 
though a planning department was established in 
1965 and a succession of development plans with 
different categories of zoning have been set into 
law, the fact remains that between 300 and 600 
new housing units are still being added to the 
diminutive and finite landscape each year. 
The most frightening aspect of this trend is that it 
involves the entire island and is wreaking havoc 
with that resource of natural beauty, peace and 
tranquility — the Bermuda Image — which is the 
fundamental selling point of our tourist-dominated 
economy. Bermuda is turning into a city without a 
countryside. Open spaces survive only as a few 
isolated green islands, completely surrounded by 
suburbia. 
The task at hand is urgent and complex but the 
miracle of Bermuda is that despite such intense 
development and abuse so many fragile features 
of our unique natural heritage survive in small 
pockets here and there. We haven't lost a species 
since 1900. 
Of all the nature reserves which have been estab- 
lished on Bermuda since the 1960s none has at- 
tracted more attention internationally than the 
Castle Harbour Island group where the rediscov- 
ery of the cahow in 1951 has inspired an ambi- 
tious restoration effort to create a Living Museum 
of precolonial Bermuda on 15-acre Nonsuch 
Island. 
Nonsuch Island differs from most other nature re- 
serves in that it is a product of restoration rather 
than protection. When first estab- 
lished in 1961 it was essentially a 
desert island, having formerly been 
used as a yellow fever quarantine 
hospital and later as a reformatory. 
Its once-magnificent cedar forest 
had been entirely destroyed by the 
cedar scale epidemic; wind, salt 
spray and free-roaming goats had 
reduced the remaining vegetation 
to a dense grass cover. The bird life 
had disappeared with the forest. 
Nevertheless, its potential for 
restoration as a reserve for endan- 
gered native flora and fauna was 
enormous. In the first place its 
isolation from Bermuda’s mainland 
meant that many of the introduced 
exotic species had not yet reached 
the island and could be prevented 
from doing so by quarantine meas- 
ures. The second feature of 
Nonsuch which made it so ideal as a reserve for 
endangered flora and fauna was its diverse topog- 
raphy, which made it possible to restore samples 
of all the major habitats of precolonial Bermuda 
except the wetlands. 
The cahow conservation programme was 
launched immediately after the discovery of the 
breeding islets in 1951. It soon became apparent 
why the cahow had escaped detection for so long. 
The bird is an extremely elusive and difficult 
subject to study. No one has ever photographed 
one on the open ocean, where the cahow spends 
most of its life. Returning from the ocean to breed 
only on the darkest and stormiest nights of winter, 
when its isolated and wave-swept nesting islets 
are least accessible to boats, it nests only in the 
deepest crevices of the rocky cliffs. It is impossible 
to see the nesting birds without the aid of a bright 
flashlight and a mirror attached to a pole. Cahows 
seldom leave any sign of their coming and going 
at nest entrances; even when they do, rain and 
salt spray soon obliterate the evidence. 
It took ten years just to discover the entire nesting 
population of 18 pairs. By that time research had 
revealed that the major factor limiting the cahow 
was not rat predation, as previously suspected, 
but nest-site competition with the still common 
white-tailed tropicbird or longtail, whose breeding 
niche has always been the natural crevices and 
holes of Bermuda’s coastal cliffs. In the absence 
of sufficient soil for digging their own burrows, two- 
thirds of the 
surviving cahows 
were trying to nest 
in coastal cliffs. 
This might not 
have mattered 
except that the 
breeding seasons 
of the two species 
overlapped. The 
winter-breeding 
cahows lay their 
single egg in 
January and are 
already leaving 
their newly hatched 
chick unattended in 
daytime when the 
larger and more ag- 
gressive tropicbirds 
return to breed in 
early March. These 
birds would simply 
peck the cahow 
chick to death, push it to one side and take over 
the nest for their own purposes. The adults of the 
two species rarely met, because by the time the 
tropicbirds laid and began staying overnight to 
White-tailed tropicbird. 
