DMEM 
et eee Ree Dee es 
The Population Explosion 
It must give Paul Ehrlich grim satisfaction to see 
that so much of what he worried about in 1968 has 
come to pass. That year, he published his famous 
The Population Bomb, an early warning of what 
would happen (including global warming!) if we did 
not act to reduce population growth. It was widely 
influential, and it did make a difference — a 
respectable accomplishment for one book. But it 
clearly wasn’t enough. Just as he said it would, 
and despite the counterclaims of his detractors, 
the situation has become much worse. The 
Population Explosion opens fire with nine 
depressingly well-argued chapters outlining the 
problems in principle and fact. Every major aspect 
of population growth and its effects is examined. 
The Ehrlichs take special care to dismantle the 
arguments of those who say that overpopulation is 
not a problem. The hopeful claims of moralists and 
other pro-natalists are exposed as being unsup- 
ported by the facts of what is actually happening. 
Unlike many authors, the Ehrlichs do not leave us 
to writhe in guilty despair. They come through with 
a plan of action which, if taken right now, will at 
least hold the line. It is an insistent call to action, 
strengthened by being integrated with the con- 
cerns of virtually all other environmental workers. 
This encourages the cross-disciplined efforts that 
must occur if population control is to be accom- 
plished without drastic coercion or die-offs. 
The book concludes with a rousing section on 
what you can do as an individual (complete with 
sample letters to people in power), an appendix 
amounting to a quick course in ecology, and a 
formidable wad of footnotes to hold off those 
critics who still think science is vulgarized by 
making it accessible to normal citizens. Read it 
soon. —JB 
e 
The impact of any human group on the environ- 
ment can be usefully viewed as the product of 
three different factors. The first is the number of 
people. The second is some measure of the 
average person’s consumption of resources 
(which is also an index of affluence). Finally, the 
product of those two factors — the population and 
its per-capita consumption — is multiplied by an 
index of the environmental disruptiveness of the 
technologies that provide the goods consumed. 
The last factor can also be viewed as the environ- 
mental impact per quantity of consumption. In 
ER Pr ae 
es 
ee a 
I 
Planned Parenthood 
As you can see on the evening news several times 
a week, Planned Parenthood brings population 
management to the personal level, right into your 
bedroom (or the back seat of a '56 Chevy, for that 
matter). It’s not an enviable vocation — the flak 
comes from all sides — but the work gets done. A 
visit to your local Planned Parenthood clinic will 
show you the realities a lot faster than listening to 
the babble of all the factions for and against. 
Planned Parenthood also carries their work 
worldwide through Family Planning International 
Assistance (FPIA), an organization supporting 
voluntary family planning. They help governments 
and private organizations (including churches) with 
grants, materials and management advice. 
They've become adept at nurturing programs to 
where assistance is no longer needed — the best 
(and hardest) way to long-term success. —JB 
Planned Parenthood 
Contributions tax deductible; Information free 
from: Planned Parenthood 
810 Seventh Avenue 
New York, NY 10019 
POPULATION 9 
Relationship Between Population Growth and Average Family Size Patterns 
ONE-CHILD 
FAMILY 
TWO-CHILD 
FAMILY 
 THREE-CHILD 
FAMILY 
1 person = 1 generation 
1 person = 14 generation 
1 person = 4 generation 
2 
© 
@ 
iw 
iy 
p> 
> 
eb 
be 
1 person = Arata betlad 
2 pace = senerctions 
& 
£ fb fy Eb J 
1 person = a 
generations 
i 
people = 3 Geneiat ons 
people = 2 generations 
@ 
~ e 
e@ 
® 
e® 
68 
® 
> 
400% 
<oxho «die 
«<bGe 
9 people = 3 generations 
Ab Ahk AABA 
{ person = 4 generations 
4 people tofal 
short, Impact = Population x Affluence x Technol- 
ogy, or | = PAT. 
The | = PAT equation is the key to understanding 
the role of population growth in the environmental 
crisis. It tells us why, for example, rich nations 
have such serious population problems (because 
the A and T multipliers for each person are so 
large). That is why it is so important that those 
nations begin shrinking the size of their popula- 
tions by lowering birthrates until they are below 
death rates. It also tells us why a little develop- 
ment in poor nations with big populations like 
China can have an enormous impact on the planet 
(because the P multiplier on the A and T factors is 
so large). 
e 
Those who believe in the intrinsic good of having 
large numbers of people (for instance, as future 
souls to be processed into a better world) clearly 
should wish for a population size stabilized at well 
below the carrying capacity at any given time. 
Having, say, one billion people alive all the time for 
four million more years obviously would create a 
greater cumulative total than topping out at 10 
billion in the next century and then dying out or 
collapsing to a population of a few hundred 
thousand people eking out a livelihood on an 
impoverished planet for the next four million years. 
Is it Somewhere written that a major goal of 
humanity should be maximize the number of 
human beings living all at once? 
The Population Explosion * WEA 
Paul R. Ehrlich & Anne H. Ehrlich 
§ 
1990; 320 pp.; $18.95 ($21.95 
postpaid) from: Simon & Schuster 
200 Old Tappan Road, Old Tap- 
pan, NJ 07675; (800) 223-2336 
The Insider’s Guide to 
Demographic Know-How 
Monitoring how money swirls in, around, and out 
of populations is what modern demographers are 
really after. Of course, purely social and political 
currents can also be queried and tracked. There is 
no end of numbers available, many for free. 
Making sense of statistics requires carving them 
up with insight. You can get them sliced by 
commercial companies for a nice fee, or you can 
dice them up yourself. This excellent manual 
guides you through the wonderland of databases, 
most of them public. Although computers are 
increasingly pertinent (and often vital) in analyzing 
demographics, this handbook also shows you how 
to tackle the job yourself with printouts and a 
calculator. Happy trend hunting. —Kevin Kelly 
The Insider’s Guide to Demo- 
graphic Know-How; Penelope 
Wickham, Editor; 1988; 246 pp. 
$21.95 ($24.95 postpaid) from: 
Probus Publishing Co.; 118 N. 
Clinton Street, Chicago IL 60606 
§ 
(312) 346-7985 
WEA 
8 people = 4 generations 
15 people total 
27 people =4 generations 40 people total 
Compare two families: After four generations, a 
family with a three-child tradition will consume 
160 percent more resources (including fish, meat, 
wood, and vegetable products) than a two-child- 
per-generation family. 
Zero Population Growth 
ZPG hatched in 1968. Its main goal: to stabilize 
the population of this country just after the year 
2000. Their long-term goal is, as you might guess, 
to stabilize world population as soon as possible. 
To accomplish this difficult task, ZPG engages in a 
wide variety of activities — all essentially educa- 
tional. One of their strongest programs helps 
teachers present population matters without 
creating a storm at the school board. Their work is 
frequently controversial; not surprising where there 
is sex, religion, and no-growth policy involved. 
(Also not surprising where there is Paul Ehrlich 
involved — he’s a co-founder.) —JB 
Zero Population Growth 
ZPG does favor unlimited population increase of 
their membership. $20/year (includes subscrip- 
tion to ZPG Reporter) from: Zero Population 
Growth, Inc., 1400 16th Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20036; (202) 332-2200 
USA by Numbers 
ZPG looks at our population statistics. The unmen- 
tionable facts of immigration and teen pregnancy 
are here — without polemics or political comment 
— for all to see. The numbers are official evidence 
that there is a lot of denial going on in places both 
high and low. This book is a fine reference, it'd 
take you weeks to dredge up all this stuff yourself. 
—JB 
USA by Numbers (A Statistical 
Portrait of the United States) 
Susan Weber, Editor; $8.95 
($10.45 postpaid) from: ZPG Pub- 
| 
lications, 1400 16th Street, NW 
Suite 320, Washington, DC 20036 
Public Cost of Teenage Childbearing: It is es- 
timated that a family begun by a first birth to a 
teenage mother in 1986 will cost taxpayers 
$14,852 by the time that child reaches age 20. 
Families begun by first births to adolescents in 
1986 alone will cost taxpayers a total of $5.3 
billion over the next 20 years. 
Doubling Time 
If something is increasing at the rate of 2% per 
year, in how many years will it double? That 2% 
sounds innocently small; need we worry? Here’s 
a crude trick for figuring it out: Divide the annual 
percent increase into 70 (some people use 72). 
You get 35, so world population, now at 5 billion 
and increasing at 2% a year, will be ten billion in 
about 35 years — 2025. Many of us will live to 
regret it. —JB 
Graphic 
Chart 
& 
Map 
Co. 
