38 RESTORATION 
incubate, the nocturnal cahows had abandoned 
their failed nest for the year. Both species are 
long-lived and faithful to the same nestsite, so the 
pattern would repeat itself year after year. It is 
incredible that the cahow could have survived for 
so long when two-thirds of the breeding pairs were 
being subjected to this loss every year. 
The first major emphasis of the conservation pro- 
gramme, therefore, apart from rat control, was to 
solve this problem of nestsite competition. This 
was eventually achieved with a simple device 
called a baffler, which took advantage of the size 
difference between the two species. By fitting a 
board with a fixed-dimension, elliptical hole in the 
entrance to each crevice, the larger tropicbird 
could be excluded — just as starlings can be ex- 
cluded from bluebird nestboxes. When this pro- 
gram was fully imple- 
mented by 1961, it 
effectively trebled the 
reproductive success 
and laid the founda- 
tion for recovery. No 
chicks have been 
lost to tropicbirds 
since that time. 
To accommodate the 
anticipated increase, 
| began constructing 
nesting burrows arti- 
ficially on the vege- 
tated tops of the 
nesting islets, where 
the tropicbirds were 
less likely to find 
them. This “govern- 
ment housing 
scheme,” as | 
dubbed it, has 
gradually expanded 
until now more than 
half of the cahows depend on these artificial nest 
sites. They really had no choice because new 
pairs will colonize only close to pre-established 
pairs and there simply are no other suitable 
natural crevices on these islands. 
Cahow government 
housing. 
The most obvious island to accommodate an ex- 
pansion of cahows was Nonsuch because of its 
close proximity to the existing cahow islets and its 
isolation from the rest of Bermuda, making its 
._mManagement as a predator-free reserve feasible 
by quarantine. We finally persuaded the govern- 
ment to add Nonsuch to the Sanctuary system by 
declaration in 1961. The following year one of the 
vacant and derelict quarantine hospital buildings 
was restored into a house, so | could move onto 
the island as a warden. | was newly married at the 
time and needed a place to live. Despite the 
Restoration plantings slowly begin to 
resemble a forest, 1975. 
hardship of island living — there 
was no electricity or telephone 
when | first moved out — | could 
hardly have dreamed of a greater 
paradise. | already knew that the 
cahow was unlikely to increase fast 
enough to spread back onto Non- 
such in my lifetime, because of its 
extremely low reproductive poten- 
tial. Each pair produces only one 
egg a year, and only about half of 
these are fledged successfully. In 
addition, it takes eight to ten years 
before those fledglings reach 
breeding age, and during this time 
natural mortality reduces their 
number even further. By 1965 there were new and 
ominous signs that the breeding success was de- 
clining even further. After long and tedious interna- 
tional research the cause was eventually identified 
as the breakdown product of DDT poison in the 
environment. 
The cahow, feeding at the end of the foodchain, 
obtained just enough poison to cause eggshell 
thinning by enzymatic imbalances. The thin- 
shelled eggs were vulnerable to breakage in the 
nest, reducing breeding success from 60 percent 
to as low as 35 percent by 1967. The worst aspect 
of this problem was that it was international in 
scope and totally beyond my personal control. 
The progress of the cahow breeding program was 
agonizingly slow; with the added menace of DDT, 
my efforts became a numbed routine. | needed a 
distraction, something with more hope of success, 
to justify Nonsuch Island’s continued existence as 
a nature reserve. This is when it occurred to me to 
take advantage of its unique isolation and topogra- 
phy, and make it a living museum for all of 
Bermuda’s terrestrial flora and fauna. 
The restoration of Nonsuch Island began as a 
spare-time diversion, but it quickly became my 
main project. Between 1963 and 1972 | planted 
more than 8,000 trees and woody shrubs on 
Nonsuch Island, representing the full range of 
Bermuda’s native forest species. Progress was 
painfully slow at first, because with no windbreaks 
severe winter gales and salt spray burned the little 
palmetto palms, olivewoods and other native trees 
right back to grass level. | began to fear that | 
would never even see the fruits of this labour in 
my lifetime. | was really doing something for the fu- 
ture, just hoping that the next generation would 
still believe in it. 
In an effort to speed things up, | began using 
castor pomace fertilizer, and in 1967 | decided to 
plant the periphery of the island with a windbreak 
forest of casuarinas, the fast-growing, non-native, 
evergreen tree which was used extensively on 
mainland Bermuda for reforestation purposes after 
the loss of the cedars. The castor pomace fertilizer 
turned out to be an ideal 
high-protein food for the 
soil-burrowing, native land- 
crab, which began to multi- 
ply rapidly, causing soil 
erosion problems. 
The windbreak of casuari- 
nas around the periphery 
of the island made it pos- 
sible for the native forest to 
grow a little faster, and 
once it began to knit to- 
gether into a thicket, the 
winter gales rode over the 
top. When that happened, 
the forest really began to 
take off, and | began to get 
some habitat diversity — 
microhabitats — and | 
could begin to seed in 
ae 
ape 
¢ 
See 
David Wingate captains a boatload of native 
plants to Nonsuch. 
some of the more fragile understory species. 
Throughout this period | had been unable to in- 
clude the endemic Bermuda cedar in my reforesta- 
tion, because the scale insects were still abundant 
and seeding trees were barely viable. However, 
approximately 4 percent of the mainland forest 
had managed to survive the scale, and by 1970 it 
had become apparent that natural selection, com- 
bined with effective biological control methods im- 
plemented by the government, were beginning to 
turn the tide. | finally undertook my first mass- 
planting of 600 Bermuda cedars on Nonsuch in 
1972. Although death rates were high, approxi- 
mately 200 ultimately survived and emerged 
above the other slow-growing native trees to 
dominate the canopy in several parts of the island. 
By the early seventies, | had an emerging native 
forest, and it was now possible to begin thinking 
about restoring the native fauna which had lived in 
that forest. My first attempt at faunal introduction 
involved the Bermuda race of the white-eyed 
vireo. | netted several of the vireos on the main 
island and released them on Nonsuch. They 
settled so successfully into the recreated environ- 
ment that they now exhibit a population density 
twice that on Bermuda’s mainland. They even 
seem to be reverting to their original fearlessness, 
as described by the early settlers. 
Constructing the artificial freshwater pond, 1975. 
In 1975 my dream of artificially creating wetland 
habitats on Nonsuch was finally realized. A small 
freshwater pond was created by slightly deepening 
a depression between two hills, laying down an 
impermeable plastic liner and covering it with soil. 
The liner formed a hanging water table, which 
trapped rainfall to produce a four-foot-deep pond. 
Within little over a year | had established a com- 
munity that was indistinguishable from a natural 
marsh. The saltmarsh pond was created in a very 
low-lying area immediately behind the South 
beach dune by simply excavating to below the 
water table level. In this area a pond resulted from 
natural seepage without the need for a liner. 
