64 STAYING HEALTHY 
Natural Health, 
Natural Medicine 
In a field choking on books catering to dietary fads 
or else full of sectarian sermonizing, here is one 
about how to stay healthy that you can use and 
learn from. It’s a doctor’s bag full of calmly pre- 
sented information and remedies selected from a 
broad spectrum of medical treatments, including 
herbal, oriental and western. Weil is an M.D. who 
trained first as a botanist (common in the 19th 
century; unheard of today) and he uses herbal 
remedies in his own practice along with synthetic 
drugs. He also uses his understanding of diet and 
nutrition in presenting strategies in individual chap- 
ters on how not to get heart attacks, strokes and 
cancer. And there is news here — Weil’s discus- 
sion of fats has gotten me off of safflower oil after 
30 years of believing | was doing the right thing by 
eating it. 
Andrew Weil has a couple of earlier books (from 
1983) worth knowing about too. Health and 
Healing (Houghton Mifflin Co.) considers western 
allopathic methods in a broader context of alterna- 
tives like homeopathy and Chinese medicine. 
Chocolate to Morphine is a classic book on 
mind-active drugs. Peter Warshall called it “good 
enough to replace all drug-use books previously 
reviewed in the Whole Earth Catalogs’ in his 
review, and that Is still true. If you are about to be 
kicking young’uns out of the nest, this is an 
important book for parent and teenager to read - 
first. Unfortunately it has gone out of print, a victim 
perhaps of ten years of official “Just say no” drug 
hysteria. It deserves to be reissued. 
— Richard Nilsen 
Natural Health, Natural 
Medicine (A Compre- 
hensive Manual For 
Wellness and Self-Care) 
Andrew Weil, M.D. 
1990; 356 pp.; $19.95 
postpaid from: 
Houghton Mifflin Co. 
Wayside Road 
Burlington, MA 01803 
(800) 225-3362 *WEA 
Heart attacks, strokes, and cancer are not simply 
_ the results of bad heredity and bad luck. They are 
often diseases of lifestyle, and lifestyle can be 
changed. 
e 
| do not place much stock in the advice of profes- 
sional nutritionists and dietitians. 
. 
. 
. 
Nutritional science gave us the Basic Four food 
groups, the concept responsible for much of our 
unhealthy obsession with protein (more on this in 
a moment). Registered dietitians are frequently 
witting or unwitting tools of the food industry. 
. 
. 
. If 
you are tempted to follow their recommendations, 
remember that dietitians are the people respon- 
sible for the food served in hospitals. 
e 
Never draw water from the hot water tap for 
drinking or cooking even if you are going to use it 
to make tea or boil pasta. Hot water leaches out 
impurities much more readily than cold and, in 
addition, it has sat for long periods in a heater 
tank, which is probably not very clean inside. 
Water from the hot tap is unfit for human con- 
sumption, no matter what your pipes are made of. 
e 
Remember that meats and other proteins become 
carcinogenic when they are seared black over 
open flames or on a charcoal grill. Do not eat 
charred flesh or, if you do, cut away the charred 
outer layers. Never breathe the smoke of burning 
meat or burning fat. 
Tea tree oil, a recent Australian import, extracted 
from the leaves of Melaleuca alternifolia, a native 
tree of New South Wales, is the best treatment | 
know for fungal infections of the skin (athlete’s 
foot, ringworm, jock itch). It will also clear up 
fungal infections of the toenails or fingernails, a 
condition notoriously resistant to treatment, even 
by strong systemic antibiotics. You just paint the 
oil on affected areas two or three times a day. 
e 
Allergy is misplaced immunity. Allergens like dog 
hair, pollen, dust, and mold cannot really hurt us, 
so the immune system need not react to them. 
Allergy is a learned response of the immune 
system, and anything learned can be unlearned. 
The goal of treatment should be to convince the 
immune system that it can coexist peacefully with 
these substances. Conventional medicine does 
not achieve this goal. Instead it suppresses 
allergic responses, perpetuating them and creating 
much toxicity. 
Nee Mere VERSRAY einer 
Radon detector 
Radon is an odorless, colorless, 
and potentially harmful gas that 
seeps from the ground into American 
homes (in some states, 70% of 
homes contain levels considered 
unsafe). Some radon detectors take 
a “snapshot” measurement, but 
because radon levels rise and fall 
seasonally, experts recommend a 
long-term reading. This one allows 
you to choose exposure time from 
two weeks to one full year. You'll 
get a dependable reading, profes- 
sional evaluation, and with each 
report over four pci/l an EPA 
action recommendation will be 
included. 
#1087 Track Etch Radon 
Detector $35.00 
Your very own doctor’s bag 
The Medical Black Bag is filled with medical instruments physi- 
cians use, specially selected to meet your family’s home health 
needs. It's organized to make it easy to use and contains an 
earscope, hospital-quality stethoscope, blood pressure cuff, digital 
thermometer, surgical scissors, and surgical forceps for splinter 
removal. Sturdy, durable, nylon bag. 
| #2017 Medical Black Bag $99.00 
SelfCare Catalog & Journal 
A classy catalog of mostly-not-too-faddish self- 
care health products and publications. It’s not just 
products. Each edition includes educational 
columns by respected authors such as Debra 
Lynn Dadd, Jeff Cox, and Whole Earth’s longtime 
medical consultant, Tom Ferguson, M.D. Useful 
advice, nice stuff, good service. —JB 
SelfCare Catalog & Journal; free from: 
SelfCare Catalog, P.O. Box 130 
Mandeville, LA 70470-0130; (800) 345-3371 
EFS PTET 
EY SE 
OILUP™ Sorbent 
Large Spill Assortment 
Pallet includes: 12, 8" x 10’ booms; 10, 18" x 25” Spill Control 
Pillows™; and 1, 36” x 150’ x 3/8” thick sorbent roll—enough to 
keep a large oil spill or hazardous materials incident under control. 
Sorbent booms, pillows and rolls can be wrung out and reused at 
scene. Tol 
igh 
Ibs. 
KleenGuard® 
Total Body and All-Purpose Coveralls 
Light and Cool Even During Extended Wear 
oo 
| 
Fabric breathes to keep wearer cool and comfortable, yet repels liquids and | 
keeps particulates out. All styles feature zipper closure, triple-stitching, and - 
elastic back and wrists. Total body coverall comes with attached hood and 
boot covers, and an elastic face closure. Please specify size: (M) (L) 
(XL) (XXL). All-purpose coverall comes with shirt collar. Also avail- 
able in gray. Please specify size: (S) (M) (L) (XL). 
PELEEN a 
ae 
The Wary Canary 
Miners carried canaries as early warning of foul air 
— the hypersensitive birds fell off the perch way 
before a human could detect danger. This news- 
letter serves the “canaries” of today —those 
unfortunate people who suffer Multiple Chemical 
Sensitivities (MCS). Despite some claims that 
MCS is yet another fad, the numbers are increas- 
ing. (Have you, by any chance, noticed that you 
“seem to be getting more allergic to things”? | 
certainly have.) Their need for surroundings 
fashioned from benign materials is one of the 
forces goading the rest of society towards new 
. 
standards. From the same folks that publish 
Environ (p.112). —JB 
The Wary Canary 
Suzanne & Ed Randeg- 
ger, Editors; $20/year 
(4 to 6 issues) from: 
Wary Canary Press 
P.O. Box 2204 
Fort Collins, CO 80522 
(303) 224-0083 
In his article in Workers with MCS, Yale professor 
Robert K. McLellan, MD, pointed out that court 
proceedings and disability hearings force people 
to become victims. And that gives them a stake in 
not getting back into the mainstream. The debilitat- 
ing effects of legal wrangling should be considered 
when you decide to “fight for your rights.” 
. 
. 
. occupational health studies have found no link 
between food allergies and environmental poison- 
ing even though the symptoms may sometimes be 
similar. 
But some victims seem to enjoy punishing them- 
selves by setting up stringent diets focusing on 
foods they hate. Most if not all, people have 
problems some times with some foods. But a 
relaxed approach to a truly diversified diet will 
minimize the problems without worrying whether or 
not it’s Tuesday. 
. 
.. Wary Canaries are not victims, they just value 
the health of themselves and others. 
Lab Safety Supply 
This company sells industrial safety equipment: 
masks, gloves, goggles, protective coveralls, 
detectors — warning and protection equipage for 
just about any imaginable threatening circum- 
stance. Unlike much of the stuff in your local 
hardware store, these products must meet the 
strictest UL, OSHA and insurance company 
standards. Not cheap, but you 
know what you're getting. 
(Note: This is a professional 
outfit, so don’t bother them 
unless you're serious.) —JB 
TTR 
Lab Safety Supply, General 
Catalog (Safety Equipment & 
Supplies for Today’s Tech- 
nologies); free from: Lab 
Safety Supply, Inc., P.O. Box 
1368, Janesville, WI 
53547-1368; (800) 356-0783 » | 
Sa 
No. 
Description 
Each 
Dozen 
Case of 24 
M-8626 
Total Body Coverall, White 
675 
72.90 
131.25 
M-8627 
All-Purpose Coverall, White 
485 
52.40 
94.30 
M-10266 
All-Purpose Coverall, Gray 
5.00 
00 
97.20 
