108 GREEN PUBLISHING 
Karen Christensen is an American writer living in 
London. She was one of the judges of Britain’s 
1990 Green Book Fortnight. Karen is the author of 
Home Ecology (London: Arlington Books, 1989; 
Denver: Fulcrum, October 1990), and is contribut- 
ing a chapter on personal action and lifestyle 
change to Green Light on Europe (Heretic 
Books, 1991). —JB 
felreenfJnk in E}ritain 
By Karen Christensen 
Over 500 libraries and 1100 bookshops, in- 
cluding Britain’s major chains, took part in the 
second Green Book Fortnight in April 1990. There 
were displays of green books, posters highlighting 
selected titles, and free catalogs listing 200 books 
submitted by over 50 publishers. The catalog gave 
special prominence to the twelve books which 
were chosen by four judges as “the most repre- 
sentative books on environmental issues pub- 
lished over the last twelve months.” 
In a press release, the organizers of Britain’s 1990 
Green Book Fortnight explained the primary 
reason for the Fortnight: “The book trade, in its 
privileged position as a major provider of informa- 
tion to the general public, should make a contribu- 
- tion to the fight to save the planet.” Seeing Green, 
Green Pages, Teaching Green, Green Design, 
Green Parenting, Green Parties (political parties, 
that is, not organic wine and cheese), Great 
Green Limericks, Green Woodwork, and The 
Green Age Diet, are among the “green” titles in 
print in Britain. Hundreds of books can be loosely 
categorized as green, and many more are on the 
way. There was considerable fuss about a “green 
wedding of the year” this summer, between two 
environmentalists; expect a Green Bride Book 
next spring. 
When | first sat down to write this article | intended 
to say nothing but nice things about green books. 
On reflection, | realized that this wouldn’t help 
save the planet, and that to point out some of the 
debates about British green book publishing would 
be more useful. 
Clearing the ground, making room in the publish- 
ing sphere for the books we need to inform and 
inspire us, is an essential and demanding task. 
The truth, however, is that the first couple of years’ 
cultivation of the mass market green book patch is 
producing a prolific crop of weeds, and they 
threaten to overwhelm the few flowers. 
Ebury Press brought out a book this spring which 
they described, without irony, as the “first green 
gift book.” During the Green Book Fortnight | was 
repeatedly asked by interviewers if publishers 
weren't “just jumping on the green bandwagon.” 
The answer is that of course they are. But why 
should we expect them to be purer than car 
manufacturers, sit-com stars, and politicians? 
No green would deny the importance of books in 
changing the world. Writing a book is not only a 
way of recording ideas but an opportunity to 
develop them. Since many green ideas are in their 
infancy, books are a crucial part of the process of 
developing coherent green strategy. Greens 
themselves tend to be particularly bookish; I’ve 
never seen such a frenzy of bookbuying as at the 
annual Schumacher lectures, held in Bristol every 
October. When the Observer newspaper ran a 
general knowledge competition a couple years 
ago, Green Party supporters got top marks 
(Conservatives were last). 
One of the least green things about the book trade 
is its obsession with new titles, at the expense of 
backlist books. There is an increasing tendency for 
publishers to see books as disposable items. 
When | expressed concern about whether books 
printed on recycled paper would hold up, a friend 
(and prolific writer) said reassuringly, “Nobody 
keeps books more than a year or two anyway.” 
Tessa Strickland, when managing editor at Viking 
Penguin in London and one of the founders of the 
Green Book Fortnight, raised this issue in an 
article in the Bookseller magazine, concluding 
that “The heart of the message has been around 
for a long time. If it was not only read about but 
also acted on, we would all flourish in a world of 
fewer books — and many more trees.” (Il wonder 
whether there was any connection between this 
article and Strickland’s being made redundant 
several weeks later.) 
Adrian Howe, director of Books for a Change, 
worries that the Fortnight could actually be bad for 
the environment, if it encourages publishers to 
produce green gift books. 
An unfortunate effect of the Fortnight was that 
publishers rushed books out in order to take part. 
The results of haste, and poor editing, include 
mind-numbing prose (“It is not clear what role, if 
any, television has to play in the lives of Green 
toddlers. It is not necessary as a socializing 
medium since the child is not at an age where 
discussions with peers of common but absent 
interests take place, and she is also not yet 
subject to peer-group pressures as she will be 
later.” —Green Parenting) and carelessness about 
facts (one prolix green writer does his own statisti- 
cal estimates when he can’t find what he needs in 
reference books). 
Authors suffer from their publishers’ sense of 
urgency. When | started writing Home Ecology in 
1987, my publishers insisted on an early deadline 
“because there’s so much interest in the environ- 
ment, It'd be a pity to miss it.” | find it extraordinary 
that publishers still think that the environment is a 
temporary fad. 
Green publishing has several special difficulties. 
Libel suits by big businesses are an increasing 
problem, since many businesses are now trying to 
present an environment-friendly face to the public. 
This year, three green books were not on the 
shelves during the Green Book Fortnight because 
of legal threats from the McDonald’s Corporation 
of Oak Brook, Illinois. One of these was The 
Coming of the Greens, by Jonathan Porritt (the 
green in our country) and David Winner. Also 
under threat, and therefore withdrawn from distri- 
bution, were Fred Pearce’s Turning Up The Heat 
and my Home Ecology. This is probably the first 
case of a concerted assault on environmental 
books by a major international company. Most 
authors, whose contracts indemnify their publish- 
ers against libel actions, cannot afford to fight. 
Newspapers and publishers find it cheaper to 
apologize than to argue the case or defend their 
writers. 
Another problem, highlighted by the Fortnight, is 
the superficiality of many environmental books. 
Practical guides are turning up everywhere, and 
here, as in the U.S., there is a lot of emphasis on 
‘simple things’ — small things you can do without 
affecting your life or taking up much time. Not a 
bad idea, but the implication that cleaning up the 
environment is the equivalent of losing ten pounds 
before bikini season is pretty short-sighted. No 
one has yet suggested that you can solve the 
world hunger problem by clearing your plate. 
As the author of a practical guide | am all for 
empowering the individual, but | find that the Earth 
Day hype, well-intentioned though it was, left 
many people feeling confused and guilty. Anyhow, 
it's patronizing to tell people that they can cure the 
greenhouse effect (or is it the ozone hole?) by 
fixing a leaky faucet. The notion that consumers 
can change industry simply by asking for environ- 
ment-friendly products is fraught with contradic- 
tions. It shifts the blame for environmental prob- 
lems, and the responsibility for solutions, onto the 
individual and away from corporations and govern- 
ment. 
The most important consequence of the Green 
Book Fortnight is that it has established green 
books as a Selling category. Until recently, they 
were apt to turn up in Natural History or Politics. | 
have found Home Ecology on the thinner thighs 
shelf, and at Blackwell’s in Oxford it was squeezed 
in with the biology textbooks. Green is a handy 
and accurate category, spanning everything from 
Third World development, organic farming, and 
electromagnetic radiation to alternative econom- 
ics. ‘Books for a change’ sums it up. 
“Green” 
The word “green” hit the U.S. early this year, and 
is being taken up by the advertising industry to 
mean ‘environment-friendly’. In Europe, ‘green’ is 
a much broader concept. 
There are two distinct strands to the green move- 
ment here. The commercial greens, who rejoice 
that the new trend is also a color which can be 
splashed on packages and banners, know a good 
business opportunity when they see it. Their 
advertising targets people who are willing to pay 
more for products which aren’t so hard on the en- 
vironment, products which make you feel good. 
On the other hand, there are the dark greens, who 
take a dubious view of green marketeering, deny 
that there is such a thing as “green growth,” and 
insist that we cannot buy our way to a better world. 
Dark green thinking is a frequent target for noisy 
propaganda — the tabloid newspapers squealed 
‘They want to take away your VCR’ during the 
Green Party Conference last September, after the 
UK Green Party had received 15% of the vote in 
the 1989 European elections, the best result a 
green party has ever achieved. A good dark 
green, and unabashedly political, book is A 
Greenifesto (Sandy Irvine and Alec Ponton, 
London: Optima, 1988), which was selected for 
the Green Book Fortnight last year. 
The American Green Committees of Correspon- 
dence, the closest thing the U.S. has to a Green 
Party, have agreed on a succinct “Ten Key 
Values.” (They have difficulty, however, in agree- 
ing on much else, including definitions of the key 
values.) These are: ecological wisdom, decentrali- 
zation, respect for diversity, non-violence, per- 
sonal and social responsibility, global responsibil- 
ity, grassroots democracy, post-patriarchal values, 
community-based economics, and future focus/ 
sustainability. (In spite of organizational problems, 
there are strong moves to establish a policy- 
oriented Green Party in the U.S.) —KC 
Books for a Change 
You can obtain copies of all the selected books 
(and hundreds more) by mail from London's 
specialist green bookshop, Books for a Change. 
They are happy to send orders to American 
customers. A subscription to their catalog/maga- 
zine (which includes reviews and articles) is a 
good way to keep up-to-date on European green 
issues. —KC 
Books for a Change 
Sample catalog free 
They accept MasterCard and VISA. 
52 Charing Cross Road 
London WC2H OBB, England 
Phone 071-836 2315 
FAX 071-497 1036 
