Soil and Water Conservation 
Society of America 
Over one million acres of prime farmland disappear 
in urban development each year. In the Great 
Plains and the Pacific Northwest, 85% of the farms 
lose five tons/acre of topsoil yearly. The Soil and 
Water Conservation Society of America provides a 
meeting ground for all the specialized interests who 
are interested in preserving the ultimate strength of 
this nation: its soil. They publish a technical but, for 
my interest, totally absorbing magazine — The 
Journal of Soil and Water Conservation. It’s a 
mature group, organized in 
1945. —Peter Warshall 
Soil and Water Conservation 
Society, besides having a 
great seed directory (see 
Sources of Native Seeds 
and Plants, p. 42) also has 
an excellent publications list 
with books and monographs 
available on soil erosion, soil 
conservation, sustainable 
ew * 
j 
= 
Pee 
ome oe nia 
need 
Soil Erosion 
No moralizing. No righteous insinuations that 
farmers or corporations are out to starve future 
generations by mining the nation’s soils. Instead, 
the political nitty-gritty: how terribly difficult it is to 
harmonize cash-flow problems (farm debt, land 
prices, fluctuating markets, federal subsidies, 
equipment purchases) and soil conservation 
practices. Learn how “targeting” erosion-control 
funds to the worst situations can slip into pork- 
barrel funding; how cross-compliance policies (e.g., 
the feds insure crops against weather disasters in 
exchange for farmers following 
good erosion-control guidelines) 
lose control in times of high 
crop demand; how punishing 
farmers for sloppy land use 
practices has never worked; 
how incentives for farmers who 
rent must be different from 
those for farmers who own. 
This book competently fills a 
vacant niche, the niche of 
agriculture, and water 
conservation. 
A well-designed storm drain in Fairfax, 
Virginia, has a semi-fixed liner to drain 
away erosive storm water. —Journal of 
America’s most important 
politics — saving its topsoil. 
—Susan Erkel Ryan 
e 
Landscape Medicine 
When perception of the landscape as a living 
organism is combined with concepts of health, 
traditional land management becomes, as Freder- 
ick Steiner suggests, the practice of landscape 
medicine. This practice parallels in many ways the 
process a medical doctor follows in diagnosing and 
treating human illness. It suggests an approach 
that examines the landscape from the point of view 
of maintaining or enhancing the landscape’s health 
— its ecological well-being. It views the landscape 
in a holistic sense, with all life integrally linked; it 
does not separate biological functions from physi- 
cal functions, nor human well-being from that of the 
landscape. 
Journal of Soil and 
Water Conservation 
Max Schnepf, Editor 
$30/year (six issues) 
Publications list free 
Both from: Soil and Water 
Conservation Society 
7515 N.E. Ankeny Road 
Ankeny, IA 50021-9764 
(515) 289-2331 
—Peter Warshall 
Soil and Water Conservation 
“ 
Erosion not only robs farmland of its fertility, it also 
seriously pollutes the nation’s waterways. 
.. 
. 
Ironically, most Americans believe our soil erosion 
problem was resolved during the 1930s when 
severe droughts and dust storms swept across the 
prairies and midwestern soil accumulated on 
windowsills of the Capitol in Washington, D.C. ... 
lf Americans do not take seriously the accumulat- 
ing evidence about the extent and consequences 
of erosion, the country’s agricultural future may be 
undermined, perhaps not this decade or next, but 
sometime early in the twenty-first century. 
e 
Erosion is a natural process. When lands are 
covered by vegetation, the rate of erosion is slow, 
approximately 1 inch every 100 to 250 years, and 
is offset by the creation of new soil. But on lands 
devoid of vegetation. 
. 
. erosion 
rates increase by magnitudes. 
Soil Erosion, Sandra S. Batie 
1983; 136 pp., $8.50 ($10.50 
postpaid) from: The Conserva- 
tion Foundation, P. O. Box 
4866, Hampden Station 
Baltimore, MD 21211 
(301) 338-6951 **WEA 
SOIL 27 
[ay 2 
RS oh 
Se ea eer gai i asta 
Dixon Land Imprinters 
Desertification is a creeping planetary blight. Once 
land is deforested, over-grazed, or otherwise de- 
nuded of most or all vegetation, the soil surface 
rapidly loses its porosity and becomes smooth and 
hard. Rainfall runs off, rather than soaking in for 
use by plants, causing severe flooding and ero- 
sion. To revegetate an area you have to repair the 
damaged soil surface before you can expect your 
plantings and seedlings to take hold well or at all. 
The imprinters developed by Dr. Robert Dixon 
mechanically roughen and shape the soil surfaces 
to make it no longer smooth and hard. Water pools 
and soaks in for seeds and plantings to use. 
Flooding and erosion are sharply reduced or even 
eliminated. Vegetation can get a good foothold 
and then biologically maintain and enhance the 
porous and roughened soil surface initially pro- 
vided by the imprinter. Imprinters have been in use 
in the U. S. Southwest for over ten years, with 
good results that | have personally verified. They 
are increasingly turning up in the Third World now. 
Imprinters come in various sizes, from one best 
pulled by a D4 Cat down to hand- or foot-oper- 
ated models. Imprinters can be bought, or you can 
roll your own homemade model! with a little help 
from the Imprinting Foundation run by Dixon. 
—James Kalin 
Dixon can custom design imprinters for specific 
revegetation projects for large or small acreage. 
Last May they made an imprinter for use on the 
notorious Staten Island landfill. 
—Susan Erkel Ryan 
Dixon Land Imprinters 
construction plans $2 
(specify foot-or hand- 
operated) from: The 
Imprinting Foundation 
1231 East Big Rock Rd. 
Tucson, AZ 85718 
(602) 297-6165 
Imprinter operating near 
Tombstone, Arizona, to 
revegetate land on the 
western fringe of the 
Chihuahan Desert, 
severely overgrazed by 
Spanish cattle between 
1850 and 1900. This is a prototypic rolling 
imprinter invented in 1976. Many other types have 
been developed since then. 
Groundwork 
Too much of coastal California has been washing 
into the sea for a good chunk of this century. What 
logging didn’t set loose the cows did. This hand- 
some handbook is the product of one of America’s 
more than 3,000 resource conservation districts. 
With a locally elected board, but no power to make 
or enforce laws, RDCs function as the glue 
between governmental bureaucracies and private 
landowners in cooperative efforts to conserve soil 
and water. Superb line drawings of techniques and 
a succinct text make this pamphlet one to emulate. 
—Richard Nilsen [Suggested by Judith Goldsmith] 
Groundwork 
Liza Prunuske; 1987 
60 pp.; $1.25 postpaid 
from: Marin County 
Resource Conservation 
District, P.O. Box 219 
Point Reyes Station, 
CA 94956 
(415) 663-1231 
Willows are an effective and inexpensive way to 
armor active headcuts and gully banks. 
Be sure to plant the willows right-side up. One 
almost foolproof method is to point the planting 
end of the sprig with an axe right after it is cut from 
the tree. 
Willows spread easily — usually an advantage; 
but in some cases when an 
open channel is needed to 
carry stormflows, this can be a 
nuisance. 
e 
Strawbales are an inexpensive 
and easy-to-install form of 
check dam for use in mild, 
shallow gullies. They perform 
best in gullies with relatively 
stable sides and some existing 
grass cover. Since the bales 
deteriorate in two to three 
years, it is essential that 
INTO SOIL 
Willow sprig installation. 
TKIA OFF BRANCHES 
vegetation be well established on the deposited 
sediment within that time. Bales should be keyed 
into the bank and secured with two pieces of rebar 
per bale. Multiple bales can be used in a row 
across the gully floor. 
Generally, single strawbale checkdams are con- 
structed without spillways. If you find runoff over- 
flowing the gully channel during a rainstorm and 
causing damage elsewhere, 
you can cut an emergency 
spillway with a pick or a 
chainsaw, but be very careful 
of the wire rebar! Multiple 
strawbale dams can be 
arranged so that the center is 
lower than the sides. 
INSERT SPRIG 
WITH bBup 
YOINTING UP 
If cattle have access to straw- 
bale checkdams, they may eat 
the checkdams down to two 
lone pieces of rebar. Wrap- 
ping the bales in chicken wire 
before installing them usually 
discourages such voracity. 
CUT END TO A POINT FOK 
EASIER INSTALLATION 
