EES PRE 
ne 
ee 
Getting to Yes 
This book on negotiation comes as a great 
personal relief to me and may well to you. I’ve 
always avoided situations that involved bargaining 
because of all the dishonesty that seemed to be 
required. When | was forced, by life, to bargain 
anyway, | usually did poorly, which reinforced my 
reluctance. All that is now cured by this modest 
163 pages of exceptional insight and clarity. 
The point is to negotiate on principle, not pressure 
— on mutual search for mutually discernible 
objectivity, patiently and firmly putting aside every 
other gambit. The book is a landmark, already a 
bible for international negotiators but just as useful 
for deciding which movie to see tonight or which 
school to send the family scion to. 
Getting to Yes is a model in every way of ideal 
how-to writing. —Steward Brand 
Soa 0 
Tie Neti fests Se 
Getting 
to Yes, Roger Fisher 
E 
2 
GETTING [TO 
and William Ury; 1981; 161 pp. 
$7.95 ($9.95 postpaid) from: 
Penguin USA, 120 Woodbine, 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621 
(212) 366-2000 WEA 
A variation on the procedure of “one cuts, the 
other chooses’ is for the parties to negotiate what 
they think is a fair arrangement before they go on 
to decide their respective roles in it. In a divorce 
negotiation, for example, before deciding which 
parent will get custody of the children, the parents 
might agree on the visiting rights of the other 
parent. This gives both an incentive to agree on 
visitation rights each will think fair. 
e 
A good negotiator rarely makes an important 
decision on the spot. The psychological pressure 
to be nice and to give in is too great. A little time 
and distance help separate the people from the 
problem. A good negotiator comes to the table 
with a credible reason in his pocket for leaving 
when he wants. Such a reason should not indicate 
passivity or inability to make a decision. 
A good case can be made for changing Woodrow 
Wilson’s appealing slogan “Open covenants 
openly arrived at” to “Open covenants privately 
arrived at.” No matter how many people are 
involved in a negotiation, important decisions are 
typically made when no more than two people are 
in the room. 
e 
Reconciling interests rather than compromising 
between positions works because behind opposed 
positions lie many more interests than conflicting 
ones. 
aes 
ee 
ee eee | 
Green Line™ 
Green Line™ is a national, interactive, environ- 
mental 900 number service. Using a touch-tone 
phone, callers can “drive” through a constantly 
updated system that responds almost immediately 
to their requests for information on a wide range of 
subjects including: News — daily environmental 
bulletins, environmental events calendar; Action — 
legislative action line service, simple things you 
can do to help; Connections — contact/join/donate 
to organizations, 
‘green’ marketplace info; Issues 
— information on key environmental issues. 
—Gil Friend 
Green Line™, $.95 per minute billed to your 
home phone. For 900# and more information 
contact: Green Line, 758 Gilman Street, 
Berkeley, CA 94710; (415) 526-3900 
Environmental Justice 
By Mary James 
4 Our right to breathe free is non-negotiable. Safe 
drinking water, that’s non-negotiable. We must 
have a commitment and a timetable from Chevron 
to clean up the environment.” These words could 
have come from any number of environmentalists 
speaking to a group of Sierra Clubbers. But they 
didn’t. This was Jesse Jackson talking to members 
of the Missionary Baptist Church in Richmond, 
California. 
Jackson, as part of Earth Day 1990 activities, 
teamed up with Denis Hayes and visited six mi- 
nority communities to bring attention to local pol- 
lution problems. That more hasn’t been done to 
clear up these problems, Hayes blamed on the pre- 
dominantly white, upper middle class nature of 
the environmental movement. The base of support 
has been too narrow, says Hayes. 
“Minorities are disproportionately affected by 
environmental issues,” asserts Black environ- 
mental activist and consultant David Hahn-Baker. 
Studies have shown that hazardous waste sites are 
overwhelmingly located in minority and low- 
income communities. Yet traditional environ- 
mental groups tend to be mostly white. Fewer 
than two percent of field and management staff 
hired by environmental organizations in the past 
five years have been minorities, according to an 
informal survey. Of the 152 professionals at the 
National Audubon Society only five are minori- 
ties. Eight minorities out of 96 employees work at 
the Environmental Defense Fund. The Sierra Club 
reportedly has one Hispanic employee out of a 
total staff of 290. 
While these figures paint a bleak picture for a true 
mass movement, signs of change are emerging. On 
the local level, minority-led coalitions fighting 
pollution problems — the West County Toxics 
Coalition in Richmond, for example — are grow- 
ing in number and size. On the national level, 
major environmental groups have begun to target 
issues, such as toxics and urban habitats, that 
strongly affect minority communities. 
Environmentalists are coming to realize that pro- 
tecting endangered species might include protect- 
ing, and working with, vulnerable human popula- 
tions. Earth Island Institute (see p. 110) is creating 
an Urban Habitat project to address the connec- 
tions between race, poverty, and ecological resto- 
ration of cities. Carl Anthony and California Rural 
Legal Assistance Foundation attorney Luke Cole 
brought out the first issue of their Race, Poverty & 
the Environment newsletter just days before Earth 
Day 1990. This increasing recognition of environ- 
mental justice as an issue is pushing traditional en- 
vironmental groups to end their homogeneity — a 
homogeneity that is creating problems for both the 
environmental and minority communities. 
“Not only is working to diversify environmental 
groups the right thing to do,” states Hahn-Baker, 
“but it’s necessary if environmentalists want to 
accomplish their goals.” Minorities make up over 
a third of the U. S. population, and that percentage 
is growing. Unless more minority communities — 
and the politicians representing them — perceive 
environmental issues as critical, these issues won’t 
get the attention they need. In 1986 Washington, 
D. C., voters defeated a bottle-deposit bill thanks 
to a beverage industry campaign aimed at the 
black community. But environmental groups will 
lose more than minority support if they don’t 
diversify. 
COMMUNITY ACTION 105 
“We will also miss the opportunity to enhance the 
work of our organizations by bringing a broader 
and more representative perspective to it,” says 
Gerry Stover, executive director of The Environ- 
mental Consortium for Minority Outreach, a 
Washington-based coalition of major environ- 
mental organizations. 
“Environmental groups had paid lip service to 
increasing minority representation, but nothing 
much had been done,” claims Stover. “We had to 
make more than a verbal commitment. Even just 
recruiting isn’t enough.” While the consortium 
does recruit minorities for staff and board of 
directors positions, it also educates the environ- 
mental and minority communities about issues 
that concern them both. Stover is helping prepare 
a curriculum to expose schoolchildren to environ- 
mental topics and pulling together information on 
the socioeconomic effects of environmental issues. 
Meanwhile several leaders of minority, low- 
income environmental groups have taken their 
own steps to speed up change. This January Pat 
Bryant, director of the Gulf Coast Tenant Leader- 
ship Development Project, and several other 
leaders sent a letter to eight major environmental 
organizations demanding that in the next 60 days 
they increase minority representation to 30 to 40 
percent of their staff or stop working in minority 
communities. Benjamin Chavis, director of the 
United Church of Christ’s Commission for Racial 
Justice, followed up the letter with a call for a 
summit meeting between leaders of national envi- 
ronmental organizations and ethnic environ- 
mental grassroots organizers. 
Bob Norman, director of human resources for the 
National Audubon Society, says, “We want to be 
cooperative, but we can’t solve this big of a 
problem overnight.” He says he hasn’t received 
enough applications from qualified minority 
scientists to fill the Society's needs, despite the 
Society’s full-blown affirmative action program in- 
stituted two years ago. 
“There’s no denying we need to do a better job of 
reaching out to minorities,” says Fred Krupp, 
executive director of the Environmental Defense 
Fund. Until recently, though, minorities interested 
in cause-oriented work have gravitated toward 
poverty and discrimination issues, rather than 
environmental concerns. That situation is chang- 
ing now — fortunately. “The environmental 
movement will be stronger when we have a more 
diverse work force,” he says. Unfortunately, once 
on the inside, minorities face other hurdles created 
by their years on the outside. 
“The working environment is still lonely for mi- 
norities. It’s an old boys’ network so often,” says 
Marcia Chen. For eight months she worked with 
the Boston-based CEIP Fund, an organization 
promoting environmental careers. By the end of 
her stint with CEIP, Chen had put together a com- 
prehensive report on ways to increase minorities’ 
presence in the profession. The Fund hosted a con- 
ference this April for minorities interested in 
environmental jobs, but Chen wasn’t there. She 
had already left the field. 
“Efforts at diversity are moving much faster now 
than at any time in the last ten years, but they’re 
still chugging along slowly,” says Hahn-Baker. 
“Because of the Gulf Coast letter, though, the joint 
is jumping.” Still, for Hahn-Baker, diversifying the 
traditional environmental groups remains the little 
picture in today’s movement. Redefining environ- 
mentalists as people who care about birds and 
low-income housing, toxic waste dumps and 
access to health care — that’s the big picture. 
