_ Eye and Brain 
_<« 
ste 
p 
! can’t think of another book as well-made as this one. 
I|t is 
well designed, illustrated, and diagrammed. The writing is 
excellent, the subject matter important and new. 
The book 
is inexpensive. Altogether Eye and Brain lets you see how 
crappy most books are. 
Stratton went on to perform other experiments which though less 
well-known are just as interesting. He devised a mirror arrangement 
which, mounted in a harness, visually displaced his own body, so that 
! 
it appeared horizontally in front of him, and at the height of his own 
| 
eyes. Stratton wore this mirror arrangement for three days (about 
twenty-four hours of vision) and he reported: 
“\ had the feeling that | was mentally outside my own body. 
It was, of course, but a passing impression, but it came 
several times and was vivid while it lasted. 
.. But the moment 
critical interest arose, the simplicity of the state was gone, and 
my visible actions were accompanied by a kind of wraith of 
themselves in the older visual terms. 
Why should the perceptual system be as active in seeking alternative 
solutions as we see it to be in ambiguous situations?’ Indeed it seems 
more active, and more intellectually honest in refusing to stick with 
one of many possible solutions, then in the cerebral cortex as a whole— 
if we may judge by the tenecity of irrational belief in politics or 
religion. The perceptual system has been of biological significance for 
far longer than the calculating intellect. The regions of the cerebral 
cortex concerned with thought are comparatively juvenile. They are 
self-opinionated by comparison with the ancient striate area 
responsible for vision. 
Held found that only the active kitten developed perception, the 
passive animal remaining effectively blind. He thus suggested that 
active touch is essential to perceptual development. 
delayed signal 
monitor 
video tape 
delay 
An elaboration of the television technique makes it possible to 
displace retinal images not only in space, but in time. Temporal 
delay of images is a new kind of displacement, and promises to be of 
the greatest importance. The method is to use a TV camera and 
monitor, with an endless tape loop so that there is a time-delay 
between the recording from the camera and the playback to the 
monitor. The subject thus sees his hands (or any other object) in 
the past; the delay being set by the gap between the Record and 
Play-back heads. 
This situation is not only of theoretical interest, but is also of 
practical importance because controls used in flying aircraft, and 
Operating many kinds of machine, have a delay in their action: if 
such delay upsets the skill, this could_be a serious matter. 
It was 
found that a shortdelay (about 0-5 seconds) made movements jerky 
and ill co-ordinated, so that drawing became almost impossible, and 
writing quite difficult. Practice gives little or no improvement. 
television 
SIgiial 
television camera 
R.L. Gregory 
Eye and Brain 
the psychology 
of seeing 
4+ 
Keg 
Ah 
yt 
qypd- 
$2.45 
te 
ue 
Eye and Brain — The Psychology of Seeing 
R.L. Gregory 
1966; 254 pp. 
$2.45 Postpaid 
from: 
McGraw-Hill Book Company 
Princeton Road 
Hightstown, N.J. 08520 
Manchester Road 
Manchester, Missouri 63062 
8171 Redwood Highway 
Novato, California 94947 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
World 
University 
Library D 
+ acBducation Automation®: 
Design for a Brain 
This is a reputation review. Ashby’s book is found prominent 
in the bibliography and footnotes of every text we’ve seen on 
computers and the mind. 
It’s technical going to read but 
worth it for the insights of prime work. 
Finding an optimum is a much more complex operation than finding 
a value that is acceptable (according to a given criterion). Thus, 
suppose a man comes to a foriegn market containing a hundred kinds 
of fruit that are quite new to him. To find the optimam for his 
palate he must (1) taste all the hundred; (2) make at least ninety-nine 
comparisons, and (3) remember the results so that he can finally go 
back to the optimal form. On the other hand, to find a fruit that is 
acceptable he need merely try them in succession or at random 
(taking no trouble to remember the past), stopping only at the first 
that passes the test. To demand the optimum, then, may be excessive; 
all that is required in biological systems is that the organism finds a 
state or a value between 
given limits. 
The development of life on earth must thus not be seen as something 
remarkable. On the contrary, it was inevitable. 
!t was inevitable in 
the sense that if a system as large as the surface of the earth, basically 
polystable, is kept gently simmering dynamically for five thousand 
million years, then nothing shoft of a miracle could keep the system 
away from those states in which the variables are aggregated intc 
intensely self-preserving forms. 
This is the learning mechanism. 
Its peculiarity is that the gene- 
pattern delegates part of its control over the organism to the 
environment. Thus, it does not specify in detail how a kitten 
shall catch a mouse, but provides a learning mechanism and a 
tendency to play, so that is is the mouse which teaches the kitten 
the finer points of how to catch mice. 
- Design for a Brain 
*~W. Ross Ashby 
1952, 1960; 286 pp. 
SCIENCE PAPERBACKS" > 
$2.85 postpaid 
from: 
Barnes & Noble, Inc. 
105 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
Economy Bookstore 
171 W. Madison 
Chicago, Illinois 60602 
Design fora 
Brain 
W ROSS ASHBY 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
cation 
Education 
Automation 
Freeing the scholar 
to return to his studies 
Education 
~ Automation 
ae 
R. Buckminster Fuller 
1962; 88 pp. 
$1 95 
postpaid 
from: 
Southern Illinois University Press 
600 West Grand 
Carbondale, Illinois 62903 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
This book is listed under “Communication” rather than 
“Learning” because Fuller is mainly concerned with access 
in this book: designing ready access to comprehensive and 
replicable information and designing mobility as the basis 
of education. 
| would say, then, that you are faced with a future in which education 
is going to be number one amongst the great world industries, within 
which will flourish an educational machine technology that will provide 
tools such as the individually selected and articulated two-way TV and 
an intercontinentally net-worked, documentaries call-up system, 
operative over any home two-way TV set. 
We also find that generally speaking The geographically larger the 
physical task to be done, the duller the conceptual brain that is 
brought to bear upon the integration of the scientific discoveries 
and their technically realized applications. 
Finally, we get to inter- 
national affairs, and you know what is happening today. 
| would counsel you in your deliberation regarding getting campuses 
ready now to get general comprehensive environmental controls that 
are suitable to all-purposes like a circus. A circus is a transformable 
environment. 
Communi = 35, ; 
vara) 
a 
Salt 
