9100A Calculator 
The best of the new table-top number crunchers is this 
Hewlett-Packard machine. 
It is programmable, versatile, and 
silent—more so than its competition. Portola Institute 
currently is using the 9100A to help kids gain early mastery 
over computers—it is a suberb inquiry machine. 
Specs: 9100A can do addition, subtraction, multiplication, 
division. square root log x, In x, eX, sin x, COS x, tan x. 
sin-1x, cos:1x, tan-1x, sinh x, cosh x, tanh x, sinh-'x, cosh-1x, 
tanh-!x, polar to rectangular and vice versa co-ordinate 
transformations. Number range is 10-99to 1099. The 
magnetic core memory has 19 registers: 3 display and 16 
storage. Display is decimal or floating point. Program 
capacity is 196 steps. Programming is done by pressing keys 
in proper sequence (no special language required). Programs 
may be stored on wallet sized magnetic cards. 
Typical 
operations take 2-280 milliseconds. 
Weight of the machine 
is 40 Ibs, dimensions 8”x16”’x19”deep. Reportedly the 
following accesories will be available soon: printer, xy plotter, 
input/output 
interface. 
[Suggested by Robert Albrecht] 
Cybernetics 
McLuhan’s assertion that computers constitute an extension 
of the human nervous system is an accurate historical 
statement. 
The research and speculation that led to computer 
design arose from investigation of healthy and pathological 
human response patterns embodied in the topological 
make-up of the nervous system. Insights here soon expanded 
into generalizations about communication that permitted the 
building of analgous electronic devices physicallv- separate 
from the Central Nervous System. But they’re just one artifact 
of these new understandings about communication. Society, 
from organism to community to-civilization to universe, is 
the domain of cybernetics. Norbert Wiener has the'story, 
and to some extent, is the story. 
To predict the future of a curve is to carry out a certain operation on 
its past. 
The central nervous system no longer appears as a self-contained 
organ, receiving inputs from the senses and discharging into the 
muscles. On the contrary, some of its most characteristic activities 
are explicable only as circular processes, emerging from the mervous 
system into the muscles, and re-entering the nervous system through 
the sense organs, whether they be proprioceptors or organs of the 
special senses. This seemed to us to mark a new step in the study 
of that part of neurophysiology which concerns not solely the 
elementary processes of nerves and synapses but the performance of 
the nervous systemas an integrated whole. 
The feedback of voluntary activity is of this nature. We do not will 
the motions of certain muscles, and indeed we generally do not 
know which muscles are to be moved to accomplish a given task; 
we will, say, to pick up a cigarette. Our motion is regulated by some 
measure of the amount by which it has not yet been accomplished. 
| have spoken of the race. This is really too broad a term for the 
scope of most communal information. Properly speaking, the 
community extends only so far as there extends an effectual 
9.099 
2.441 59265 
*. eh 
HP 9100A 
$4900.00 
65 tbs shipping weight 
from: 
P.O. Box 301 
Loveland, Colorado 80537 
Seeree 
2S SS SB SBF SF Se 
SF 
Rese 
SSF Oe 
Sf FBS 
ter SF © 
= 
transmission of information. 
It is possible to give a sort of measure 
to this by comparing the number of decisions entering a group from 
outside with the number of decisions made in the group. We can thus 
measure the autonomy of the group. A measure of the effective size 
of a group is given by the size which it must have to have achieved a 
certain stated degree of autonomy. 
Thus small, closely knit communities have a very considerable measure 
of homeostasis; and this, whether they are highly literate communities 
in a civilized country or villages of primitive savages. Strange and even 
repugnant as the customs of many barbarians may seem to us, they 
generally have a very definite homeostatic value, which it is part of the 
function of\anthropologists to interpret. 
It is only in the large 
community, where the Lords 
of Things as They Are protect themselves 
from hunger by wealth, from public opinion by privacy and anonymity, 
from private criticism by the laws of libel and the possession of the 
means of communication, that ruthlessness can reach its most sublime 
levels. Of all of these anti-homeostatic factors in society, the control 
of the means of communication is the most effective and most 
important. 
The mongoose begins with a feint, which provokes the snake to strike. 
The mongoose dodges and makes another such feint, so that we have 
a rhythmical pattern of activity on the part of the two animals. 
However, this dance is not static but develops progressively. As it 
goes on, the feints of the mongoose come earlier and earlier in phase 
with respect to the darts of the cobra, until finally the mongoose 
attacks when the cobra is extended and not ina position to move 
rapidly. This time the mongoose’s attack is not a feint but a deadly. 
accurate bite through the cobra’s brain. 
In other words, the snake’s pattern of action is confined to single 
darts, each one for itself, while the pattern of the mongoose’s action 
involves an appreciable, if not very long, segment of the whole past 
of the fight. To this extent the mongoose acts like a learning machine, 
and the real deadliness of its attack is dependent on a much more 
highly organized nervous system. 
To use a biological analogy, the parallel system had a better 
homeostasis than the series system and therefore survived, while the 
series system eliminated itself by natural selection: 
We thus see that a non-linear interaction causing the attraction of 
frequency can generate a self-organizing system..... 
ie, 
igoname 
Bosplay is de 
Cybernetics — or Control and Communication in the 
Animal and the Machine 
Norbert Wiener 
1948,1961; 212 pp. 
$ 1.95 
postpaid 
from: 
The M.1.T. Press 
Cambridge, Mass. 02142 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
r 
a 
e 
2 hi kn Se 
fi 
Po 
= 
z 
P 
~— 
a 
ate 
: 
a 
A 
; 
© 
oa 
se 
. 
3 
4 
+ 
ee 
YT 
ee < . 2 oe, 
ee 
4 
To 
Ve ee oe 
PS pe 
