Government Publications 
Relatively expensive access to phenomenally inexpensive 
information. 
If you or your group don’t have money and 
do need technique, this may be your best source. Many of 
the government publications are outstanding. By and by 
we hope to have reviews of many 
specific good ones in the 
CATALOG. One drawback: the government grinds fine but 
very very slow—shipments take forever. 
inventions Wanted by the Armed Forces and Other Government 
Agencies: Cumulative Vol. 2 [List]. Nat! Inventors Council, 1964. 
62 p. Free from the Council. 
This hopeful inventory contains enaugh ideas to keep all! of us 
hoping for some time. 
Understanding the Atom Series. Atomic Energy Comm., 1963-67. 
Free from the Commission. 
This extraordinarily handsome and informative group is published by 
the Division of Technical Information of the AEC. With some 
exceptions (recognizable by their titles), all of the group are intended 
to be as nontechnical as anything in this field can be. The entire series 
deals with every aspect of the subject, except the military; moreover, 
the series is aimed at several levels of understanding and background. 
Each of the titles is excellently illustrated. 
All carry reading lists. 
Since a great many of the titles have been issued very recently and 
were received too late by the compiler to permit individual annotation, 
only this broad introductory note is possible. The titles are 
recommended for schoo! use and for the general public. The generous 
policy of the AEC, in making these very fine booklets freely available, 
deserves mention. 
Requests should be addressed to: 
United States Atomic Energy Commission 
P.O. Box 62 
Oak Ridge, Tennessee 37830 
Complete sets of the group are available free to schools and to public 
libraries, and to teachers who can make tham available for reference 
or for use by groups. 
Bark Canoes and Skin Boats of North America. E.T. Adney and H.!. 
Chapelle. Nat! Museum, Bull. 230{7964). 242 p. il. eae Sd 
Ss: 
Of great historical interest. 
Also tells you (with plans) how to make 
these canoes, 
Manual of Septic Tank Practice. Public Health Serv. 1960, 91 p. il. 
40¢— 
FS 2.6:Se 6/2 
A fine detailed guide to proper maintenance and repair. 
Controlling Mosquitoes in Your Home and on Your Premises. J.A. ~ 
Fluno. Agr. Dept., Home and Garden Bull. 84 (1962). 
12 p. il. 10¢ 
A 1.77:84 
A Popular Guide to Government Publications 
W. Philip Leidy 
1968; 
363 pp. 
3000 items 
$12.00 
postpaid 
from: 
Columbia University Press 
Stock Department 
Irvington-on-Hudson, N.Y. 10533 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Home Poultry Flock. Agr. Dept., Leaflet 497 (1965). 8 p. il. 5¢ 
A 1.35:497 
A simple guide for the small scale producer. 
Wood Handbook: Basic Information on Wood as a Material of 
Construction, with Data for its Use in Design and Specification. 
Agr. Dept., Agr. Handbook 72 (1955). 528 pp. il. $2.25 
A 1.76:72 
A good deal of the information here will be of interest to anyone 
working with common woods for building or carpentry. 
Recipes [Navy—Marine Corps Recipe Serv.]. Navy Dept., Supplies 
and Accounts Bur., 1963. 738 cards, 5” x 8’’. $8.25 per set. 
D 212.2R 24/963 
Meant, of course, for very large servings indeed. 
Anthropology 
as a Career. W.C. Sturtevant. Smithsonian Inst., 1963. 
20 p. De 
2 Pathos from the Institution. 
Family 
Guide: Emergency 
Health Care. Civil Defense Off., 1963 
60 p. i Free from oe Office. 
The advice here is not intended to substitute for professional medical 
care; covering a wide range of illnesses and ailments, it tells you what 
to do in emergencies—everything from a toothache to childbirth. 
Farming 
Terraced Land. P. Jacobson and W. Weiss. Agr. Dept., 
Leaflet 35 (T1961) T1963] . 14 p. il. 15¢ 
A 1.35:335 
Excellently illustrated guide to techniques involved. 
—— 
— 
eS 
<s 
| 
The Armchair Shopper’s Guide 
This cheerful book is an uncommonly practical compendium 
of access. 
Listed here are all of the major and many of the 
minor mail order shippers in the world. 
To a large extent 
the shippers carry items not available locally. 
Each source 
is very well described and compared with its competitors. 
The Armchair Shopper’s Guide is more general than us, and 
geared to wealthier readers, but if you use the WHOLE 
EARTH CATALOG very much, you can almost certainly 
use the Shopper’s Guide. 
SHOPPERS | 
GUIDE 
. 
Mail Order 
Areund 
Pai 
ee SS Ae 
‘ 
heWorld 
= ye 
Stee 
The Armchair Shopper’s Guide 
Delphine C. Lyons 
1968; 
218 pp. 
$1.50 postpaid 
from: 
Essandess Special Editions 
Simon and Schuster, Inc. 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10020 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Culpeper House, Ltd., 21 Bruton St., Berkeley Square, London W.1, 
England (catalog free): This distinguished firm is owned by the 
British Society of Herbalists, so its standards of purity and quality 
are high. 
Here you will find one of the largest available collections of herbs 
and herbal preparations for all purposes, including many types and 
blends not easily available here, at prices generally well below 
American levels. 
Medicinal preparations include all kinds of herb 
teas and blends at about 40¢ to 50¢ per 2-ounce pack; tonics and 
remedies, pills and ointments (slippery elm and marshmallow cream 
is around 60¢; corn and wart paint costs 60¢). Among culinary 
products are flavorings, herbs and spices (including combinations 
and blends of their own), most costing about 50¢ per ounce, with 
a few exceptions such as cardamons and mace blades, which hit a 
top of around $1.20 per ounce). 
Oils, vinegars, and such esoteric 
items as carrageen moss and tree bark are also available, 
In addition, there’s a line of herbal and floral perfumes and 
toiletries, with such delightful names as Blue Champak, Sussex 
Violets, Syringa, or Sweet Beans (which suggest, they say, ‘’a bean- 
field after a shower of rain’’)—plus potpourris and pomanders and, 
if you're brave, herbal cigarrettes at around 40¢ for a packet of 
twenty. 
Stechert Hafner, Inc., 31 East 19th Street., New York, N.Y. 10002 
(catalog free): 
Featured here are scientific, mathematical, and 
medical books, many of which are also published under the aegis 
of this distinguished house. 
Then a really splendid source, The Guitar Maker, 8665 West 13th 
Ave., Denver, Colo. 80215 (brochure free) has do-it-yourself guitar, 
sitar, dulcimer, Irish harp, and balalaika kits, beginning as low as 
$8. for the dulcimer, and $9 for the balalaika. 
For faint hearts, 
they'll sell the finished instrument at from around two and a half 
to three times the price of the kit. 
W. Atlee Burpee Co., 18th & Hunting Park Ave., Philadelphia, Pa 
19132 (catalog freet): Probably the best known of all American 
seed houses, Burpee’s was founded in 1876, at a time when America 
imported almost all its seeds from Europe. Mr. Burpee—and, later, his 
farnous cousin Luther Burbank—started a tradition of creating new 
flowers and vegetables through scientific methods, which the firm 
continues today under his son’s direction. Every year several new 
varieties of plants are offered. 
The familiar catalog with its handsome full-page color illustrations 
offers a comprehensive listing of seeds—about one-third are vegetables 
and the rest are flowers—plus garden supplies. A special feature is a 
page listing types of flowers most appropriate for various purposes, 
including ‘‘easy-to-grow” types for the amateur or unlucky gardener. 
Every gardener, from the strictly amateur to the case-hardened 
professional, knows about Hyponex all-purpose plant food. However, 
some people don’t know that the same firm, Hydroponic Chemical 
Co., Copley, Ohio 44321 (brochure free) manufactures nine other 
plant food formulas, as well as special foods for particular plants. 
Don’t let the firm's name fool you. Although their plant foods are, 
of course, useful in soilless gardening. they’re meant for all kinds of 
plant culture, indoors and out. 
In addition, Hydroponic offers a 
whole line of garden and houseplant supplies, many of which are 
difficult to find locally. 
It’s the only place | know of where you can 
get sand in small quantities—quarts are less than a dollar postpaid. 
+ Merchandise shipped postage free. 
How to Get 20% to 90% Off on Everything You Buy 
Well, yeah. Except the book smells of self-improvement. 
Somehow if you beat your neighbor for bargains it makes 
you a better person and this a better world. 
* Sure. 
There’s nothing unique in this book, but all the corner- 
cutting techniques are here. 
The main advice is: trade you. 
services or talents or whatever for what would otherwise 
cost you money. 
Most of the information won‘t be new to 
you, but the ideas that are will more than save you the price 
of the book—if you take the trouble, which all bargain-finding 
comes down to, 
; 
ia 
: 
everything 
‘ 
you buy! 
by JEAN and CLE KINNEY 
S
Here are five don'ts to keep in mind when bargaining: 
1. Don’t try to bargain at a chain store. 
The store has its prices set at the central office. 
2. Don’t try to bargain with a clerk in a privately owned store. 
Only the owner or a strong head of a department is a 
decision maker. 
i 
Don't try to cut the price of merchandise that has a set price 
‘
in all stores. 
These ‘’fair trade” items have prices set at the 
m 
manufacturer's home office. 
Store owners who fiddle with 
Ee 
_ 
= 
ome 
se 
ee 
le ite
he=
ws 
these prices can lose their franchise. 
4. Don't pretend to be an expert when buying from someone 
who knows more about the merchandise than you do. 
5. Don't knock the merchandise! 
How to Get 20% to 90% Off on Everything You Buy 
Jean and Cle Kinney 
a 
1966; 255 pp. 
rt 
hae 
$1.95 postpaid 
from: 
Parker Publishing Company, Inc. 
Prentice-Hall, Inc. 
{ 
Englewood Cliffs, N.J. 07631 
