CATALOG 
procedure 
Ordering from the CATALOG 
The CATALOG functions primarily as a pointer rather thana 
seller and prefers to be absent from most of the transactions 
it encourages. 
Address orders to the supplier given with the item unless you 
know of a better one [if you do, let us knowl; if the price is 
not listed postpaid find out the postage or express cost from 
the supplier’s location to yours [consult post office or express 
agency for rates]; add state tax if transaction is within your 
state; and send check or money order with your order. 
/f the supplier gives you poor service, let us know. That 
information can be added to his review. 
Blank order envelopes are provided at the back of the 
CATALOG for your convenience and so that suppliers 
have some idea of the CATALOG’s effect on their busi- 
ness — if strong enough it may result in price or service 
advantages to CATALOG users. Don’t use the envelopes 
if you don’t want to. 
With some indicated items, books mostly, the CATALOG also 
will ship. There is no price difference with the service; the 
CATALOG gets the markup instead of the other guy, is all. 
For west coast orders it may mean faster service. 
Generally, the closer the supplier is to you, the quicker and 
cheaper the shipping will be. If the item you’re getting is at 
all delicate 
[Don Buchla tells us| or if you are in a hurry, air 
express is the best deal. REA mangles.. 
Any thing overseas, do by air. 
Subscribing to the CATALOG 
$8.00 per year. 
This includes Fall and Spring issues of the 
CATALOG and four Supplements 
. Subscription forms 
are on page 63. Memorize your Zip code. 
Suggesting 
The validity ot the information in the CATALOG is only 
as good as the transmitted experience of users. For any 
item, we have to 
© Learn about it. 
* Get thorough information on it, and 
° Stay current with its changes 
and with the improvements of its 
competitors. 
FROM YOUR EXPERIENCE 
HOW WOULD YOU ALTER 
per catalog 
THIS CATALOG 
per category 
THESE ITEMS 
per item 
THIS REVIEW 
Reviewing 
The CATALOG pays its reviewers $10 an item for: getting 
familiar with the item, its usefulness, and its competition; 
evaluating the item; selecting samples of graphics or text 
(with page references) for the review; and writing a 200 — 
300 word review. 
Both reviewers and first suggestors of items are credited in 
the CATALOG. 
We invite reviews that improve on present reviews or accom- 
pany suggestions for new items. On acceptance for publi- 
cation reviewers will be paid $10 per accepted review. 
Unused reviews will not be returned. Polish of submitted 
material is irrelevant unless it is meant to be camera-ready. 
New items that have had some favorable comment, and that 
we want reviews for, will be listed in the Supplement, 
Corresponding 
If the content of the WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
is mostly products, the content of the Difficult But 
Possible Supplement is mostly processes. 
Commentary from CATALOG users that is of general inter- 
est — and not a specific review — will be in the Supplement . 
Critical comments, new design processes, no-cash techniques, 
news of specific enterprises, useful fantasies, design student 
work, time and trouble shortcuts, new uses for common or 
exotic materials, other realms for the 
CATALOG to consider , 
etc, etc., — all welcome. 
The Supplement could wind up being 
more useful than the CATALOG. 
‘contain more information on materials. 
Advertising 
| 
Suppliers, manufacturers, creators of listed items are 
eligible to advertise in the CATALOG. They may adver- 
tise onlyan item listed or their own catalog. All ads are 
placed at the back of the book. There are no ads in the 
Supplement . 
Rates: 
Selling 
The CATALOG end Supplement are available for resale at 
50% discount — minimum order 5. Single copy 
list price 
of the CATALOG is $5 ; the Supplement, $2. 
Donating: 
Portola Institute, Inc. is a tax-exempt, non-profit corp- 
oration. Donations to Portola or the CATALOG may be. 
deducted. 
Retaining subscriptions to the CATALOG are $25 for one 
year ($17 tax deductible ). Sustaining subscriptions are 
$100+ per year ($92+ tax deductible }. Names of retaining 
and sustaining subscribers will be given in the CATALOG. 
CATALOG policy with suppliers and users 
The CATALOG is under no obligation to suppliers. Users 
are under no obligation te the CATALOG, 
| 
Suppliers ( manufacturers, creators, etc.) may not buy their 
way into the CATALOG. 
Free Samples or other blandish-- 
ments are cheerfully accepted 
by CATALOG researchers; 
response not predictable. No payment for listing is asked 
or accepted. We owe accurate information exchange to 
suppliers, but not favors. 
Our obligation is to CATALOG users and to ourselves to be 
good tools for one another. 
This Issue of the CATALOG, the first, is heavy on books 
because they are easy to start with ( low cost, simple to get 
and evaluate). As more CATALOG users report in and we 
develop better facilities to try stuff out, later issues should 
This issue of the CATALOG was prepared by: 
Stewart Brand 
Sandra Tcherepnin 
Joe Bonner 
with 
Steve Baer 
Jane Burton 
Steve Durkee 
James Fadiman 
Ralph Metzner 
Richard Raymond 
Gurney Norman 
Larry McCombs 
Robert Albrecht 
We are grateful to Ortega Park Teachers Laboratory for 
temporary use of their mountain idy!/ for production haa 
space. 
The WHOLE EARTH CATALOG and Difficult But Possible 
é 
Supplement to the WHOLE EARTH CATALOG is published 
at Portola Institute, 558 Santa Cruz, Menlo Park, California 
94025 on the following schedule: 
CATALOG 
_ November 
Supplement 
January 
Supplement. —_ March 
ak 
CATALOG 
May 
bye 
Supplement 
July 
; 
Supplement 
September 
Preparation of the CATALOG was done on an IBM 
Selectric Composer and a Polaroid MP-3 camera with 
instant half-tone system. Nowel Publications, Menlo Park, 
printed the contents, and East Wind Printers, San Fran- 
cisco, printed the cover. 
: 
te 
Subscription rate: one year — $8. Application to mail i 
4 
at second class postage rates is pending at Menlo Park, 
ae 
California. 
"Caeae 
