*. 
% 
thar 
*- 
The Technique an: 
Use in Daily Livir 
by 
LESLIE M. LEC 
Clinical Psychologist and Author 
Techniques of Hypcatherapy 
A UNIQUE METHOD OF SELEANALYSS THAT. 
YOU GET TO. THE ROOT OF YOUR PROBLEMS AND. 
CORRECT THEM WITH THE SIMPLE, SAFE, SCHETING 
TECHMIQUES OF SELF HYPNOTISM 
PSYCHO- 
CYBERNETICS 
A New Technique for Using Your 
SUBCONSCIOUS POWER. 
’ 
By 
MAXWELL MALTZ,m.o.r1c5s. 
Foreward hy 
MELVIN POWERS 
Based-on an 
this simple yet pr 
Life® can be the 
influence. in your life! 
Psycho-cybernetics 
Self Hypnotism 
One of the things that intrigues me most 
about hypnotism is that no one knows how 
it works—which accounts for some of its disre- 
pute. No common factors, for example, have 
been found to pre-distinguish suscep tibles 
from non-susceptibles. Black box business 
Lecron doesn’t talk about any of this. He’s 
concerned with how you can detect and de- 
suggest old imprinted hang-ups and suggest 
in new ones you like better. 
(One subject 
suggested herself larger breasts, and got them.} 
Possibly the most general use of this book 
is its clear delineation of a simple avenue 
in— a meditative technique without much 
dogma. 
There’s a lot of hypnosis books; 
this is the best weve seen. 
Self Hypnotism 
Leslie M. Lecron 
1964; 220 pp. 
$1 95 
postpaid 
from: 
Prentice-Hall, Inc. 
Englewood Cliffs 
New Jersey 07631 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
This strange and gaudy volume will probably 
turn you off if you associate wisdom with sub- 
dued writing or humble exposition. However, 
if you “an overcome your initial resistence to 
the high-pressure, breezy style and the some- 
times excessive claims, it will be worth the 
effort. 
Dr. Maltz has outlined perhaps the 
easiest program of personality development 
and modification in print. It is easy because 
it contains nothing but the suggested exercises 
and the understanding that the motivation to 
change is still the most powerful tool. 
This 
is not 2 book to read. It is a kit of tools 
to use in gaining contro/ of your nature for 
whatever ends you desire. 
The author has 
made it clear that there is no virtue in being 
obscure or even in being poetic if it detracts 
from getting the reader off his ass and doing 
something about himseif. 
There is an assumption of a higher self or a 
core to one’s being which tends toward reali- 
zation or whatever term you prefer but under- 
standing of this inner nature is not vital to 
using the book. 
What we need to understand is that these habits, 
unlike addictions, can be modified, changed, or 
reversed, simply by taking the trouble to make a 
conscious decision — and then by practicing or 
““acting out’’ the new response or behavior. 
Simple? Yes. But each of the above habitual ways 
of acting, feeling, thinking does have beneficial and 
constructive influence on your self-image. Act them 
out for 21 days. ‘Experience’ them and see if worry, 
guilt, hostility have not been diminished and if con- 
fidence has nqt been increased 
So, why not give yourself a face lift? Y our do-it- 
yourself kit consists of relaxation of negative tensions 
to prevent scars, therapeutic forgiveness to remove old 
scars, providing yourself with a tough (not a hard) 
epidermis instead of a shell, creative living, a willing= 
ness to be a little vulnernable, and a nostalgia for the 
future instead of the past. 
. 
/f the above puts you off than this is not the 
book for your use. /f this totally western way 
of dealing with yourself interests you, this 
book is far better than most of the other pop- 
enlightenment books around. 
[Suggested and reviewed by James Fadiman] 
Psycho-cybernetics 
Maxwell Maltz, M.D. 
1960; 256 pp. 
$2.00 
postpaid 
or 
$1 .00 postpaid 
from: 
from: 
Melvin Powers 
Essandess Special Editions 
8721 Sunset Boulevard 
Simon & Schuster 
Hollywood, Ca. 90069 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10020 
or most book stores 
Now that you are comfortable you will listen closely 
to my voice and will follow all the suggestions given. 
This will teach you how to enter hypnosis and how 
to produce it yourself. Your eyes are now closed. 
Take another deep breath, hold it a few seconds and 
let it out. 
The more you can relax, the deeper you will be able 
to go into hypnosis. Let all your muscles go as loose 
and limp as possible. To do this start with your right 
leg. Tighten the muscles first, making the leg rigid. 
Then let it relax from your toes up to your hip. 
Then tighten the muscles of the left leg. Let that 
jeg relax from the toes up to the hip. 
Let the stomach and abdominal area relax; then your 
chest and breathing muscles. The muscles of your 
back can loosen— your shoulders and neck muscles 
relaxing. Often we have tension in this area. 
Let all 
these muscles loosen. Now your arms from the 
shoulders right down to your finger tips. Even your 
facial muscles will relax. 
Relaxation is so pleasant 
and comfortable. 
Let go completely and enjoy the 
relaxation. 
All tension seems to drain away and you 
soon find a listlessness creeping over you, with a 
sense of comfort and well-being. 
As you relax more and more, you will slip deeper 
and deeper into hypnosis. Your arms and legs may 
develop a feeling of heaviness. Or instead you may 
find your whole body feeling very light, as though 
you are floating on a soft cloud. 
Now imagine that you are standing at the top of 
an escalator such as those in some stores. See the 
steps moving down in front of you, and see the 
railings. 
| am going to count from ten to zero. As 
| start to count, imagine you are stepping on the 
escalator, standing there with your hands.on the 
railing while the stsps move down in front of you 
taking you with them. 
If you prefer, you can ima- 
gine a staircase or an elevator instead. 
|f you have 
any difficulty visualizing the escalator or staircase 
or elevator, just the count itself will take you deeper 
and deeper. 
(Slowly) TEN—now you step on_and start going 
down. NINE—EIGHT—SEVEN-—SIX. 
Going deeper 
and deeper with each count. Fi'VE—FOUR—THREE. 
Still deeper. TWO--ONE—and ZERO. Now you step 
off at the bottom and will continue to go deeper stil! 
with each breath you take. You are so relaxed and 
comfortable. 
Let go still more. Notice your breath- 
ing. Probably it is now slower and you are breathing 
more from the bottom of your lungs, abdominal 
breathing. 
In a moment you will notice your hand and arm are 
beginning to lose any feeling of heaviness and are 
becoming light. 
If you are right-handed, it will be 
your right arm, if left-handed, it will be the left. 
The arm is getting lighter and lighter. 
It will begin 
to lift. Perhaps just the fingers will move first, or 
the whole hand will start to flaatup. 
It will float 
toward your face, as though your face was a mag- 
net pulling it up until the fingers touch your face 
someplace. 
Let’s see where that will be. The arm 
begins to bend at the elbow. 
It is floating upward. 
If it has not started of its own accord, lift it volun- 
tarily a few inches to give it a start. 
|t will continue 
to go up of its own accord with no further effort. 
It floats on up toward your face, higher and higher. 
The higher your hand goes the deeper you will go. 
The deeper you go, the higher the hand will go. 
Lifting, lifting, floating up higher and higher. Going 
higher and higher. Now if it has touched your face 
let your hand go down to any comfortable position. 
If it has not touched yet, it can continue to float up 
until it does touch. You can forget about the arm 
while | tell you how you can put yourself into hyp- 
nosis whenever you may wish to do so. 
You will use much the same method being used now. 
When you have made yourself comfortable, you will 
merely close your eyes and drift into hypnosis. 
But 
in your first three or four practice sessions it would 
_ 
help you if you first lita candle and when you have 
made yourself comfortable would look at the flick- 
ering flame for two or three minutes. Then close 
your eyes. 
Then you will think to yourself the phrase, ‘Now 
| am going into hypnosis.’ Then repeat to your- 
self the words, “Relax now’’ three times, saying 
them very slowly. As you do this you will slip off 
into hypnosis. You say nothing aloud, you merely 
think these words. When you have done this, take 
another deep breath to help you relax more and gc 
through the relaxation just as you have done before. 
Tell your muscles to. relax as | have done. 
When you have finally relaxed your arms, imagine 
the escalator, elevator or staircase. Now you should 
count backward from ten to zero, including the 
zero. Count slowly. 
In your first four practice 
sessions repeat the count three times, as though 
going dawn different levels. With practice you 
need only count once. 
Whenever you are ready to awaken 
all you need to 
do is think to yourself, ‘“Now | am going to wake 
up.’" Then count:slowly to three and you will be 
wide awake, You will always awaken refreshed, 
relaxed and feeling fine. 
While you are in hypnosis if something should 
happen so you should awaken, you will do so 
instantly and spontaneously—something such as 
the phone ringing or a real emergency like a fire. 
You will awaken instantly and be wide awake and 
fully alert. Actually this would happen without 
such a suggestion being necessary, for your subcon- 
scious mind always protects you. 
Now | will count to three and you will be wide 
awake. 
If convenient you should then go through 
this formula for self-hypnosis and put y ourself 
back in. You will remember the formula and go 
through it exactly as given. Now, awaken as | 
count. ONE. Coming awake now. = TWO—aimost 
awake. THREE—now you are wide awake. Wide 
awake. 
