Human Biocomputer 
John Lilly has worked for a long time with sensory deprivation, 
Human Biocomputer 
pursuing the notion that relieving the computer (mind) of many 
John C. Lilly, M.D. 
of its environmental-survival chores frees it to attend more fully 
1967; 160 pp. 
to self-investigation. Of late he’s added LSD to the process and 
has found ways to flourish and discover within this doubly 
Inquire for price (Metzner says its about $5.00) 
floating condition. 
from: 
The paper Human Biocomputer is the best internal guidebook 
mead pivimeh iba es 
I’ve.seen—far more practical and generalized than transcendent 
Eastern writings or wishful Underground notes. 
Though it’s 
not the whole story by any means, it makes an open start on 
fresh language and powerful technique for the frontier. 
An additional advantage the paper offers is the opportunity to 
learn and explore computers without requiring money or 
administrative approval. 
You inherited and grew everything 
you need, and it’s free. 
BIOCOMPUTER 
JOHN C. LILLY, M.D. 
[Suggested by Ralph Metzner] 
ee 
For example, the term ‘reprogramming substances’ may be appropriate 
for compounds like lysergic acid diethylamide. 
For substances like 
ethyl alcohol the term metaprogram-attenuating substances’ may be 
useful. 
COMMUNICATION RESEARCH INSTITUTE 
MIAMI © FLORIDA 94133 
| believe that by using certain methods and means some of which are 
presented in this work that truly talented and dedicated individuals 
can forge, find, and devise new ways of looking at our minds, ways 
which are truly scientific, intellectually economical, and interactively 
creative. Consider for example, the case of the fictitious individual 
created by the group of mathematicians masquerading under the 
name of *’Dr. Nicholas Bourbaki.”” 
This group of mathematicians in order to create a mathematics or 
sets of mathematics beyond the capacity of any one individual, held 
meetings three times a year and exchanged ideas, then went off and 
ee e
worked separately. The resulting papers were published under a 
Later with higher motivational energy the subject returned to the 
pseudonym because the products of this work were felt to be a group 
__ 
problem of the lock, the doors and the rooms somewhat refreshed by 
result beyond any one individual's contribution. 
the experiences in the other realms. 
a 
oA 
The major problems of the research of interest to the author center 
i 
on the erasability, modifiability, and creatibility of programs. 
In 
other words, | am interested in the processes of finding metaprograms 
‘ 
The essential features and the goals sought in the self-analysis is the 
Ps 
(and methods and substances) which control, change, and create the 
metaprogram “‘make the computer general purpose’’. In this sense 
7 
basic metaprograms of the human computer. 
It is not known whether 
i 
we mean that in the general purpose nature of the computer there 
” 
one can really erase any program. 
can be no display, no acting, or no ideal which is forbidden to a 
4 
consciously willed program. Nor is any display, acting, or ideal made 
* 
The boundary of the brain, of course, may be considered as the limits 
without being consciously programmed. 
3 
of the extensions of the central nervous system into the periphery. 
y 
a 
In the maximally attenuated environment (92 to 95 degrees F. 
““Mathematical transformations’ were next tried in the approach to the 
3 
isothermal skin, saltwater suspension, zero light levels, near-zero 
the locked rooms. The concept of the key fitting into the lock and 
sound levels, without clothes, without wall or floor contacts, in 
the necessity of finding the key was abandoned and the rooms were 
solitude in remote isolation, for several hours), the addition of LSD-25 
approached as ‘‘topological puzzles.’’ In the multidimensional 
allows one to see that all the previous experiences with ‘cutside screens‘ 
cognitional and visual space the rooms were now manipulated without 
are evasions of deeper penetration of self (and hence are ‘‘screens”’ in 
the necessity of the key in the lock. 
© 
the sense of ‘blocking the view behind,’ as well as ‘receiving the 
projected images’). 
The Mind of the Dolphin 
Lilly knows that it is to everybody’s advantage for one kind 
of computer to link up with another, and that’s his program 
with dolphins, 
This book reports his speculations and 
experiments with dolphins in recent years. Included is a 
thorough account by a girl, Margaret Howe, who lived alone 
with Peter Dolphin for 10 weeks. As usual with research on 
communication, everything discovered has broad implications. 
By long and hard work | found that the evil label “negative” shou'd _ A 
not be tied to any mode or any kind of thinking at all. 
“a 
| found that bodily sources of discomfort, pain, or threat tend to 
program the mind in the negative mode and keep it there as long as 
é 
the discomfort continues. As long as pain, even at a very low level, 
continues, the computer (which is one’s mind) tends to program a 
negative pall. 
7 
Sometimes | feel that if man could become more involved in some 
problems of an alien species, he may become less involved with his own 
egocentric pursuits, and deadly competition within his species, and 
become somehow a better being. 
Once one has been through deep experiences in tune with the vast 
forces of the universe, the vast forces within ourselves, we see that 
© 
the need for conflict, the need for hostility, and the need for hatred 
become less intense. One finds the universe inside and the one 
outside so vast and so lonely that any other living thing that loves 
We are often asked, “‘If the dolphins are so intelligent why aren’t they 
or shows any signs of loving is precious and close. 
ruling the world?” 
My very considered answer to this is—they may be 
too wise to try to rule the world. The Question can be easily turned 
around, Why does man or individual men want to rule the world? 
| 
feel that it is a very insecure position to want to rule all of the other 
f 
aa 
species and the vast resources of our planet. This means a deep 
The human participant's assumptions, i.e., those of Margatet C. Howe, 
insecurity with the “universes” inside of one’s self. One's fears ana 
in her own words are as follows: 
one’s angers are being projected on others outside of one’s self; to rule 
1. Dolphins are capable of communication with man on the level of 
the world is, finally, to rule one’s inner realities. 
high intelligence. 
5 
3 
: 
2.. Dolphins are not only capable of this communication but are 
The Mind of the Dolphin 
eager for it and are willing to cooperate with man to achieve it. 
Thus a givan dolphin.can carry on a whistle conversation witihis 
pile: Lilly, M.D. 
3. Possibly the best way to go about establishing this communication % 
right side and a clicking conversation with his left side and do the 
LF 
dat? 
toon rhabircipn glihe oieelh nade fe beget live 
- 
two quite independently with the two halves of his brain. 
$5.95 postpaid 
4. This is a long process and involves many steps, each of which 
must be recognized and encouraged. The attempt to communicate — 
) 
: 
from: 
with a dolphin in English involves two main parts: (1) the dolphin 
Conservatively, we estimate that the dolphin can put out ten times 
Doubleday & Company, Inc. 
must learn how to physically say the words, and (2) he must learn — 
the sonic physical information_per second that a man produces. 
501 Franklin Avenue 
the meaning of what he is saying. These two parts may be worked out 
— 
Garden City, L.I., N.Y. 11531 
out individually or simultaneously. 
r 
at” 
or 
5. One first step is the creation and the maintenance of the mutual 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
trust and reciprocal rewards one for the other. 
; 
The information does not exist as information until it is within the 
higher levels of abstraction of each of the minds and computed as 
such. Up to the point at which it becomes perceived as information. 
nae 
4 
it is signals. These signals travel through the external reality between 
the two bodies, and travel as signals within the brain substances 
themselves. 
Till the complex patterns of traveling neuronal impulses 
in the brain are computed as information within the cerebral cortex, 
; 
they are not yet information. Information is the result of a long 
series of computations based on data signal inputs, data signal 
i 
transmissions to the brain substance, and recomputations of these 
{) 
data. 
