Psychological Reflections 
€.6.30NG 
eee 
Psychological Reflections 
C.G. Jung [ed. Jacobi] 
1945, 1953, 1961: 340 pp. 
$2.25 postpaid 
from: 
Harper & Row 
49 East 33'¢ Street 
New York, N.Y. 10016 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The man who would learn the human mind will gain almost nothing 
from experimental psychology. Far better for him to put away his aca- 
demic gown, to say good-bye to the study, and to wander with human 
heart through the world. There, in the horrors of the prison, the asylum, 
and the hospital, in the drinking-shops, brothels, and gambling hells, in 
the salons of the elegant, in the exchanges, socialist meetings, churches, 
_ religious revivals, and sectarian ecstacies, through love and hate, through 
the experience of passion in every form in his own body, he would reap 
richer store of Knowledge than text-books a foot thick could give him. 
Then would he know to doctor the sick with real knowledge of the 
human soul. 
A neurosis has really come to an end when it has overcome the wrongly 
oriented ego. The neurosis itself is not healed; it heals us. The man is ill, 
but the illness is an attempt of nature to heal him. We can therefore 
learn a great deal for the good of our health from the illness itself, and 
that which appears to the neurotic person as absolutely to be rejected 
is just the part which contains the true gold which we should otherwise 
never have found. 
The secret of the earth is not a joke and not a paradox. We need only 
see how'in America the skull- and hip-measurements of all European 
races become Indianized in the second generation. That is the secret 
of the American soil, And every soil has its secret, of which we carry 
an unconscience image in our souls: a relationship of spirit to body and 
of body to earth. 
The greater the contrast, the greater is the potential. Great energy only 
comes from a correspondingly great tension between opposites. 
No one develops his personality because someone told him it would be 
useful or advisable for him to do so. Nature has never yet allowed her-- 
self to be imposed upon by well-meaning advice. Only coercion working 
through casual connections moves nature, and human nature also. 
Nothing changes itself without need, and human personality least of 
all. It is immensely conservative, not to say inert. Only the sharpest 
need is able to rouse it. The development of personality obeys no wish, 
no command, and no insight, but only need; it wants the motivating co- 
ercion of inner or outer necessities. Any other development would be 
individualism, This is why the accusation of individualism is a cheap 
insult when it is raised against the natural development of personality. 
It is naturally a fundamental error to believe that if we see an anti- 
value in a value, or an, untruth in a truth, the value or the truth is 
then invalid. They have only become relative. Everything human 
af 
is relative, because every thing depends upon an inner polarity, for 
everything is a phenomenon of energy. And energy itself necessarily 
depends on a previous polarity without which there can be no energy. 
There must always be high and low, hot and cold, etc., so thet the 
process of adjustment which is energy, can occur. The tendency to 
deny all previous values in favour of their opposites is therefore just 
as exaggerated as the former one-sidedness. Where generally accep- 
ted and undoubted values are suddenly thrown away, there is a fatal 
loss. Whoever acts in this way ends by throwing himself overboard 
with the discarded values. 
, 
The gigantic catastrophes that threaten us are not elemental happenings 
of a physical or biological kind, but are psychic events. We are threat- 
ened in a fearful way by wars and revolutions that are nothing else than 
psychic epidemics.. At any moment a few million people may be seized 
_ 
by a madness, and then we have another world war or devastating rev- 
olution. Instead of being exposed to wild beasts, tumbling rocks, and 
inundating waters, man is exposed today to the elemental forces of his 
own psyche. Psychic life is a world-power that exceeds by many times 
all the powers of the earth. The Enlightenment, which stripped nature 
and human institutions of gods, overlooked the one god of fear who 
dwells in the psyche. Fear of God is in place, if anywhere, before the 
domination power of psychic life. 
‘ 
‘ 
No doubt it is a great nuisance that mankind is not uniform 
‘but compounded of individuals whose psychic structure 
spreads them over a span of at least ten thousand years. Hence 
there is absolutely no truth that does not spell salvation to one 
person and damnation to another. All universalisms get stuck in 
this terrible dilemma. 
ee 
a 
ed 
‘ 
> 
*) SERS PRA 
Se 
#4 
St Ef td 3 Oe 
SP 
ESE LATE we: 
- 
*¥¢ cee ey ews 
MER? 
Si kiah aah Lc abemiialntes micdadetdttutee LL 
ee ee 
‘ ge Se WA 3 
.' i ee ow ee ene haw ee tea aenired 
pa 
ebeietr Sade dell 
dur 
me uur es wucmiew oki 
ete ewic aeteih 
--« 
Jung in capsules and tasting like medicine. 
In a world increasingly subjective, everybody is psychologists 
to one another. Here is one master book of tools. 
LE PERERA EAE PEAY URE 
Te 
CRS 
EE 
PAE 
A 
re 
; 
ig 
ot 
ee 
i 
{ 
The Human Use of Human Beings 
Whole 
: 
Systems 1} 
Norbert Wiener is one of the founders of an n-dimensional 
inhabited world whose nature we've yet to learn. He is also 
one of the all-time nice men. 
The selection and editing of paragraphs from Jung’s writings 
by Jacobi is done with an informed sense of continuity, so 
that the book is readable in sequence or by bits. 
A proper sequel to his Cybernetics [see p. 32], this book is 
social, untechnical, ultimate in most of its considerations. 
!ts domain is the whole earth of the mind. 
The Human Use of Human Beings 
Norbert Wiener 
1950, 1954; 288pp 
$1.25 
from: 
Avon Books 
250 West 55th Street 
New York, N.Y, 10019 
or most book stores 
Norbert Wiener 
The Human Use 
at ene bea 
gta’ iy 
A 
LEIS 
NE 
al 
aR 
Val 
=< 
* 
It is the thesis of this book that society can only be understood 
through a study of the messages and the communication facilities 
which belong to it; and that in the future development of these mes- 
sages and communication facilities, messages between man and ma- 
chine and between machine and machine, are destined to play an 
ever-increasing part. 
Messages are themselves a form of pattern and organization. 
Indeed, 
it is possible to treat sets of messages as having an entropy like sets 
of states of the external world. Just as entropy is a measure of dis- 
organization, the information carried by a set of messages is a measure 
of organization. 
In fact, it is possible to interpret the information car- 
ried by a message as essentially the negative of its entropy, and the 
negative logarithm of its probability. That is, the more probable the 
message, the less information it gives. Clichés, for example, are less 
illuminating than great poems. 
| believe that Ashby’s brilliant idea of the unpurposefu! random 
mechanism which seeks for its own purpose through a process of 
learning is not only one of the great philosophical contributions of 
the present day, but will lead to highly useful technical developments 
in the task of automatization. Not only can we build purpose into 
machines, but in an overwhelming majority of cases a machine de- 
signed to avoid certain pitfalls of breakdown will look for purposes 
which it can fulfill. 
We are not stuff that abides, but patterns that perpetuate them- 
selves. A pattern is a message, and may be transmitted as a message. 
It is illuminating to know that the sort of phenomenon which is 
recorded subjectively as emotion may not be merely a useless epi- 
phenomenon of nervous action, but may control some essential 
stage in learning, and in other similar processes. 
It is the great public which is demanding the utmost of secrecy for 
modern science in all things which may touch its military uses. 
This demand for secrecy is scarcely more than the wish of a sick 
civilization not to learn the progress of its own disease. 
gee sees 
oan 
r 
S 
ee 
COS 
Ct ARG RAED CISPR OS ea 
yg REALS 
Py 
+ 
ba 
a 
- 
3 
é 
t 
Sait & 
: 
be 
8 a eR ee a oR pe 
BAR hin hy: far lal hy 
met hte ne ok ay io 
ak i Re RES 
oo 
7 
