r 
. 
+ 
| 
Pep any 
* 
( 
Peal 
ee, 
: 
Tele 
_ Camping and Woodcraft 
When friend Roland goes camping he takes his Bible and his 
Kephart. | generally leave home the Bible. 
How could anything written in 1916 
still be so useful? One, 
it is a masterwork. 
Two, in Kephart’s day when you went 
camping you really disappeared, so there’s a valid nostalgia 
factor. But the main thing is, the book survives on its wealth 
of specific practical lore. Game: find the information that 
is outdated, sort it from the information that is correct and 
available no where else, 
from: 
The Macmillan Company 
866 Third Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10022 
Camping and Woodcraft 
Horace Kephart 
1917,1921,1967; 479 pp. 
F 
or 
$6.95 postpaid 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The charm of nomadic life is its freedom from care, its unrestrained 
liberty of action, and the proud self-reliance of one who is absolutely 
his own master, free to follow his bent in his own way, and who cheer- 
fully, in turn, suffers the penalties that Nature visits upon him for 
every slip of mind or bungling of his hand, Carrying with him, as he 
does, in a few small bundles, all that he needs to provide food and 
shelter in any land, habited or uninhabited, the camper is lord of him- 
~ self and of his surroundings. 
Men working hard in the open, and exposed to the vicissitudes of 
wilderness.life, need a diet rich in protein, fats (especially in cold 
weather), and sweets. This may not agree with theories of dieticians, 
but it is the experience of millions of campaigners who know what 
their work demands. A low-protein diet may be good for men lead- 
ing soft lives, and for an occasional freak outdoorsman, but try it 
on an army in the field, or on a crew of |umberjacks, and you will 
face stark mutiny. 
¢ 
Muddy Water.— | used to clarify Mississippi water by stirring corn- 
meal in it and letting it settle, or by stirring a lump of alum in it 
until the mud began‘to precipitate, and then decanting the clear 
- water. Lacking these, one can take a good handfull of grass, tie it 
roughly in the form of a cone six or eight inches high, invert it, pour 
water slowly into the grass, and a runnel of comparatively clear 
water will trickle down through the small end. 
Trees and Lightning.— | have never seen, nor heard of, a beech tree 
that had been struck by lightning, although beeches are plentiful on 
many battle-scarred mountains where stricken trees of other species 
can be noted by the score. 
One glance at a comper’s fire tells what kind of a woodsman he is. 
It is quite impossible to prepare a good meal over a heap of smoking 
chunks, a fierce blaze, or a great bed of coals that will warp iron and 
melt everything else. 
Fig. 77—Cabin door (wooden 
hinges and latch) 
Fig. 49.—Splitting with a Froe 
es 
Fig. 
185 
—Splicing 
thon 
fin U ies 
- 
UT Aga 
"7H 
* 
ry 
D 
Fig. 68—A Masked Camp 
In Alaska, all animals leave for the snow-line as soon as the mosquito 
pest appears, but the enemy follows them even to the mountain tops 
above timber-line. 
Deer and mooseare killed by mosquitoes, which 
settle upon them in such amazing swarms that the unfortunate beasts 
succumb from literally having the blood sucked out of their bodies. 
Bears are driven frantic, are totally blinded, mire in the mud, and 
starve to death. Animals that survive have their flesh discolored all 
through, and even their marrow is reduced to the consistency of 
blood and water. The men who penetrate such regions are not the 
kind that would allow toil or privation to break their spirit, but they 
become so unstrung from days and nights of continuous torment 
inflicted by enemies insignificant in size but infinite in number, that 
they become savage, desperate, and sometimes even weep in sheer 
helpless anger. 
Benpinc Woop.—Small pieces of green wood can 
be bent to a required form by merely soaking the 
Fie. 54.—Spenish Windlass (for bending wood) 
pieces for two or three days in water, but if it is 
desired that they should retain their new shape, they 
should be steamed. 
Rabbits are unfit to eat in late summer, as their backs are then infested 
with warbles, which are the larvae of the rabbit bot-fly. 
Green Corn.— If you happen to camp near a farm in the ‘’Roasting- 
ear’’ season, you are in great luck. The quickest way to roast an ear 
of corn is to cut off the butt of the ear closely, so that the pith of 
the cob is exposed, ream it out a little, impale the cob lengthwise on the 
the end of a long hardwood stick, and turn over the coals. 
Skilligalee.— The best thing in a fixed camp is the stock-pot. A large 
covered pot or enameled pail is reserved for this and nothing else. 
Into it go all the fag-ends of game — heads, tails, wings, feet, giblets, 
large bones — also the left-overs of fish, flesh and fowl, of any and all 
sots of vegtables, rice, or other cereals, macaroni, stale bread, every- 
thing edible except fat. This pot is always kept hot. 
Its flavors are 
forever changing, but ever welcome. 
It is always ready, day or night, 
for the hungry varlet who missed connections or who wants a bite 
between meals. No cook who values his peace of mind will fail to 
have a skilly simmering at all hours. 
A woodsmen, on the contrary, walks with a rolling motion, his hips 
swaying an inch or more to-the stepping side, and his pace is corres- 
pondingly long. This hip action may be noticed to an exaggerated 
degree in the stride of a professional pedestrian; but the latter walks 
with a heel-and-toe step, whereas an Indian‘s or sailor's step is more 
nearly flat-footed. 
In the latter case the center of gravity is covered 
by the whole foot. The poise is as secure as that of a rope-walker. 
it is not nearly so much the ‘’make” of rifle as the load it takes that 
determines the gun’s shooting qualities. So, choose first a cartridge, 
then a gun to handle it. 
A more highly prized kinnikinick is made from the leaves of the bear- 
berry or uva-ursi (Aretostaphylos-uva-ursi), called sacaoommis by the 
Canadian traders, who sell it to the northern Indians for more than 
the price of the best tobacco. 
Light Weight Camping Equipment and How to Make It 
It’s all here: design, patterns, assembly techniques, light 
weight materials, and sources of the materials. Because of 
good information on what's needed for various environments, 
it’s a useful book even if you aren’t making your own stuff. 
An indispensible book if you are. 
{Suggested by Roland Jacopetti] 
Light Weight Camping Equipment 
Gerry Cunningham 
Margaret Hansson 
from: 
1959; 130 pp. 
Gerry 
PO Box 5544 
$2.50 
1 |b. 2 oz shipping weight 
Denver, Colorado 80217 
i 
Parka 
, 
| 
= Unan J 
small parts 
} 
I 
Neos 
SCs Rh 
‘ 
Pry \] 
SSE 
ae 
a 
ae 
Are 
< 
wy 
cuf one 
top only 
cut one 
top only 
piece onlyy 
cut 
one 
full length 
cut one full length 
Front: 
1 
Sleeve 
3 
2 Required 
Here is a list of sources of supply for the materials described. 
Follewing the addresses, the suppliers will be listed separately 
under various materials haedings with the specific items they can 
supply. 
GERRY PO Box 5544, Denver, Colorado 80217 
HOLUBAR, 1215 Grandview, Boulder, Colorado—catalog available 
RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT INC.,523 Pike St., Seattle 1, Wash. 
catalog available 
THOMAS BLACK & SONS, Scottish Industrial Estate, Port Glasgow, 
Renfrewshire, Scotland—catalog availabie. 
{ TRAILWISE (The Ski Hut), 1615 University Ave., Berkeley 3, 
California—catalog available. 
SEARS ROEBUCK-—local store or mail order catalog 
MONTGOMERY WARD-—tocal store or mail order catalog 
Tent and awning suppliers, yard goods shops, leather wholesalers, 
luggage shops, marine outfitters, sailmakers, shoe manufacturers 
and repair shops, harness and saddle shops, mattress and bedding 
manufacturers, army surplus stores, hardware stores, dry goods 
departments, handicraft shops, notions departments. 
Backpacking 
A well-regarded inexpensive book on backpacking,kept 
Vkept fairly up to date. 
(Suggested by Roland Jacopetti] 
Backpacking 
R.C, Rethmel 
1964; 120 pp. 
$2.15 postpaid 
from: 
The Alamogordo 
Printing 
Company 
Alamogordo, 
New Mexico 
