Buckminster Fuller 
_ 
The insights of Buckminster Fuller are what initiated this 
catalog. 
Of the four books reviewed here, Nine Chains to the Moon 
is his earliest and most openly metaphysical, Ideas and 
Integrities his most personal, No More Secondhand God 
the most recent, World Design Science Decade the most 
programmatic. 
People who beef about Fuller mainly complain about his 
repetition — the same ideas again and again, it’s embarassing.. 
!t is embarassing, also illuminating, because the same notions 
take on different uses when re-approached from different 
angles or with different contexts, 
Fuller’s lectures have a 
raga quality of rich nonlinear endless improvisation full of 
convergent surprises. 
Some are put off by his language, which makes demands on 
your head like suddenly discovering an extra engine in your 
car — if you don’t /et it drive you faster, itll drag you. 
Fuller won’t wait. He spent two years silent after i/lusor’ 
language got him in trouble, and he returned to humar 
communication with a redesigned instrument. 
With that, empirical curiosity, and New England persever- 
ance Fuller has forged one of the most original personalities 
and functional intellects of the age. 
| see God in 
the instruments and the mechanisms that 
work 
reliably, 
r 
more reliably than the limited sensory departments of 
the human mechanism. 
And God says 
observe the paradox 
of man’s creative potentials 
and his destructive tactics. 
: 
hc 
He could have his new world 
through sufficient love 
for ‘’all’s fair’ 
in love as well as in war 
which means you, can 
junk as much rubbish, 
skip as many stupid agreements 
by love, 
spontaneous unselfishness radiant. 
The revolution has come— 
set on fire from the top. 
Let it bum swiftiy. 
Neither the branches, trunk, nor roots will be endangered. 
Only last year’s leaves and 
the parasite-bearded moss andvorchids 
will not be there 
when the next spring brings fresh growth 
and free standing flowers. 
Here is God’s purpose— 
for God, to me, it seems, 
isa verb 
not a noun, 
proper or improper; 
is the articulation 
not the art, objective or subjective; 
is loving, 
not the abstraction “‘love’”’ commanded or entreated; 
is knowledge dynamic, 
not legislative code, 
not proclamation law. 
not academic dogma, not ecclesiastic canon. 
Yes, God is a verb, 
the most active, 
connoting the vast harmonic 
reordering of the universe 
from unleashed chaos of energy. 
And there is bom unheralded 
a great natural peace, 
not out of exclusive 
pseudo-static security 
but out of including, refining, dynamic balancing. 
Naught is lost. 
Only the false and nonexistent are dispelled. 
And I've thought through to tomorrow 
which is also today. 
The telephone rings 
and you say to me 
Hello Buckling this is Christopher; or 
‘Daddy it’s Allegra; or 
Mr. Fuller this is the Telephone Company Business Office; 
and | say you are inaccurate. 
Because | knew you were going to call 
and furthermore | recognize 
that it is God who is ‘‘speaking."’ 
And you say 
p 
aren't you being fantastic? 
And knowing you | say no, 
All organized religions of the past 
were inherently developed 
as beliefs and credits 
in ‘‘second hand” information. 
Therefore it will be an entirely new era 
when man finds himself confronted 
with direct experience 
with an obviously a priori 
intellectually anticipatory competence 
that has interordered 
all that he is discovering. 
> 
[No More Secondhand God) 
from: 
Prentice-Hall, Inc. 
Englewood Cliffs 
New Jersey 07631 
Ideas and Integrities 
Buckminster Fuller 
1963; 318 pp. 
: 
or 
$10.00 postpaid 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Standing by the lake on a jump-or-think basis, the very first spontan- 
eous question coming to mind was, "If you put aside every thing 
you've ever been asked to believe and have recourse only to your own 
experiences do you have any conviction arising from those experiences 
which either discards or must assume an a priori greater intellect than 
the intellect of man?” The answer was swift and positive. Experience 
had clearly demonstrated an a priori_ anticipatory and only intellect- 
ually apprehendable orderliness of interactive principles operating in 
the universe into which we are born. These principles are discovered 
but are never invented by man. 
| said to myself, ‘‘| have faith in the 
integrity of the anticipatory intellectual wisdom which we may call 
‘God.’ ’’ My next question was, ‘Do | know best or does God know 
best whether | may be of any value to the integrity of universe?” 
The answer was, ‘You don't know and no man knows, but the 
faith you have just established out of experience imposes recognition 
of the a priori wisdom of the fact of your being.’” Apparently addres- 
sing myself, | said, ‘‘Y ou do not have the right to eliminate yourself, 
you do not belong to you. You belong to the universe. The signi- 
ficance of you will forever remain obscure to you, but you may as 
sume that you are fulfilling your significance if you apply yourself 
to converting all your experience to highest advantage of others. 
Y ou_and all men are here for the sake of other men.” 
{Ideas and Integrities] 
, 
cosmic 
rays 
photo- 
graphy 
vitraviotet | 
Lag 
ENE 
- 
 visuat 
Be 
20,000 
ie 
sk 
bd 
in 
bs 
pressure 
bed 
KIT ATIONSHID 
Ob MAN 
TO REE CTROMAGNE 
TIC SPECTRUM 
e 
WDSD Document 1 
World society has throughout its millions of years on earth made its 
judgements upon visible, tangible, sensorially demonstrable criteria. 
We may safely say that the world is keeping its eye on the unimportant 
visible 1 percent of the historical transformation while missing the 
significance of the 99 percent of overall, unseen changes. Forms are 
inherently visible and forms no longer can ‘follow functions’’ because 
the significant functions are invisible... .. 
~ 
There are very few men todav who are disciplined to comprehend 
the totally integrating significance of the 99 percent invisible activity 
which is coalescing to reshape our future. There are approximately 
no warnings being given to society regarding the great changes ahead. 
There is only the ominous general apprehension that man may be 
about to annihilate himself. To the few who are disciplined to deal 
with the invisibly integrating trends it is increasingly readable in the 
trends that man is about to become almost 100 percent successful 
as an occupant of universe. 
No More Secondhand God 
Buckminster Fuller 
1963; 163 pp. 
$2.25 
postpaid 
Nine Chains to the Moon 
Buckminster Fuller 
1938,1963; 375 pp. 
$2.45 Postpaid 
both from: 
Southern IIlinois University Press 
600 West Grand 
Carbondale, Illinois 62903 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Thinking is a putting-aside, rather than a putting-in discipline, €.g., 
putting aside the tall 
grasses in order to isolate the trail into infor- 
mative viewability. Thinking is FM—frequency modulation—for 
it results in tuning-out of irrelevancies as a result of definitive 
resolution of the exclusively tuned-in or accepted feed-back 
messages’ pattern differentiatability. 
[“Omnidirectional Halo’” No More Secondhand God] 
Common to all such ““human’’ mechanisms—and without which they 
are imbecile contraptions—is their guidance by a phantom captain. 
This phantom captain has neither weight nor sensorial tangibility, as 
has often been scientifical!y proven by careful weighing operations 
at the moment of abandonment of the ship by the phantom captain, 
i.e., at the instant of “death.” He may be likened to the variant of 
polarity dominance in our bipolar electric world which, when bal- 
anced and unit, vanishes as abstract unity | or O. With the phantom 
captain’s departure, the mechanism becomes inoperative and very 
quickly disintegrates into basic chemical elements. 
This captain has not only an infinite self-identity characteristic but, 
also, an infinite understanding. He has furthermore, infinite sym- 
pathy with all captains of mechanisms similar to his. 
An illuminating rationalization indicated that captains —being 
phantom, abstract, infinite, and bound to other captains by a bond 
of understanding as proven by their recognition of eachother’s sig- 
nals and the meaning thereof by reference to 
acommon direction 
(toward ‘‘perfest’’)—are not only all related, but are one and the_ 
‘same captain. Mathematically, since charactistics of unity exist, 
they cannot be non-identical. 
[Nine Chains to the Moon] 
Our Air Force Redomes were installed in the arctic mostly by eskimos 
and others who had never seen them before. The mass production 
technology made assembly possible at an average rate of 14 hours 
each. One of these radomes was loaned by the U.S. Air Force to 
the Museum of Modern Art in New York City for an exhibition of 
my work in 1959-1960. 
It took regular building trades skilled labor 
one month to assemble the dome in New York City. 
WDSD Document 2 
| define ‘synergy’ as follows: Synergy is the unique behavior of 
whole systems, unpredicted by behavior fo their respective sub- 
systems’ events, 
[Ideas and Integrities] 
selfishness (self-preoccupation pursued until self loses its way and 
self-generates fear and spontaneous random surging, i.e. panic, the 
plural of which is mob outburst in unpremeditated wave synchron- 
ization of the individually random components) 
[No More Secondhand God] 
