The Act of Creation 
Koestler is a scientist of some reputation by now. He’s made contri- 
utions beyond the work of others that he’s generalized from. 
This 
s the book that gave him the reputation. 
here are two ways of escaping our more or less automized routines of thinking 
ind behaving. The first, of course, is the plunge into dreaming or dream-like 
states, when the codes of rational thinking are suspended. The other way is 
Iso an escape—from boredom, stagnetion, intellectual predicaments, and emo- 
onal frustration—but an escape in the opposite direction; it is signaled by the 
ontaneous flash of insight which shows a familiar situation or event in anew 
| ight, and elicits a new response to it. The bisociative act connects previously 
| unconnected matrices of experience; it makes us ‘understand what it is to be 
awake, to be living on several planes at once’ (to quote T.S. Eliot, somewhat 
| out of context). 
The first way of escape is a regression to earlier, more primitive levels of ideation , 
exemplified in the language of the dream; the second an ascent to a new, more 
complex level of mental evolution, Though seemingly opposed, the two pro- 
cesses will turn out to be intimatelv related. 
; 
When two independent mairices of perception or reasoning interact with each 
other the result(as | hope to show) is either a collision ending in laughter, or 
| 
their fusion in a new intellectual synthesis, or their confrontation in an aesthetic 
| experience. The bisociative patterns found in any domain of creative activity 
| are tri-valent: that is to say, the same pair of matrices can produce comic, tragic, 
F r intellectually challenging effects. 
ae 
x 
Pic re-structuring of mental organization effected by the new discovery implies 
that the creative act has a revolutionary or destructive side. The path of history 
is strewn with its victims: the discarded isms of art, the epicycles and phlogistons 
of science. 
: 
Associative skills, on the other hand, even of the sophisticated kind which re- 
| quire a high degree of concentration, do not display the above features. Their 
eotcsca equivalents are the activities of the organism while in a state of dy- 
namic equilibrium with the environment—as distinct from the more spectac- 
| ular manifestations of its regenerative potentials. The skills of reasoning rely 
on habit, governed by well-established rules of the game; the ‘reasonable 
| “person’—used as a standard norm in English common law—is level-headed in- 
) 
“stead of multi-level-headed; adaptive and not destructive; an enlightened conser- 
vative, not a revolutionary; willing to learn under proper guidance, but unable 
2 
. 
: 
to be guided by his dreams. 
The main distinguishing features of associative and bisociative thought may 
“now be summed up, somewhat brutally, as follows: 
Habit 
Originality 
_ Association within the confines 
Bisociation of independent matrices 
of a given matrix 
Guidance by pre-conscious or 
extra-conscious processes 
Dynamic equilibrium 
Rigid to flexible variations on 
| 
Guidance by sub-conscious processes 
normally under restraint 
Activation of regenerative potentials — 
Super-flexibility (reculer pour mieux 
a theme 
sauter) 
_Repetitiveness 
Novelty 
Conservative 
Destructive-Constructive 
Se 
a 
i yc 
a The | Ching 
¥ 
« 
. 
a 
The | Ching, the Book of Changes, is a brilliant problem-solv- 
being caught in local cyclic thinking. 
To consult the oracle, 
-out of the cycle of no-change and address a specific story on 
the nature of change. You now have an alternative set of solu- 
tions that owe nothing but proximity to your problem. 
You 
= the associations, you find the way out. 
It’s prayer. 
I can’t think of amore important and useful book than this 
one. It’s famously ancient, poetic, deep, esoteric, simple, 
involving. It has been the most influential book on Amer- 
ican art and artists in the last 15 years. 
Most people know about it, We've included it here to point 
other. 
at the new smaller (unabridged) cheaper Princeton University 
Press version of the classic Wilhelm-Baynes Bollingen edition. 
The oracle method is still on page 721. 
the wisdom of chance (or synchronicity, no matter), is to step 
— 
"A Tutte 
peer oS 
Rcdiveseldomttua 
ones 
ee 
THE AGT OF- 
CREATION 
by Arthur Koestler 
oc 
ggg bay ote 
Be bi pill 
ae 
ScRRCR 
MME AE - 
The Act of Creation 
Arthur Koestler 
1964; 750 pp. 
$1.25 postpaid 
from: 
Dell Publishing Company, Inc. 
750 Third Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
Or most book stores. 
49. Ko / Revolution ( Molting ) 
‘ing device. A problem (or ignorance) generally consists of 
Ss 
above 
TU! 
The Joyous, Lake 
below 
LI — The Clinging, Fire 
The Chinese character for this hexagram means in its original sense an 
animal's pelt, which is changed in the course of the year by molting. 
From this the word is carried over to apply to the ‘‘moltings’’ in poli- 
tical life, the great revolutions connected with changes of governments. 
The two trigrams making up the haxagram are the same two that appear 
in K'uei, OPPOSITION (38), that is, the two younger daughters, Li and 
Tui. But while there the elder of the two daughters is above, and what 
results is essentially only an opposition of tendencies, here the younger 
daughter is above. The influences are in actual conflict, and the forces 
combat eachother like fire and water (lake), each trying to destroy the 
Hence the idea of revolution. 
THE JUDGEMENT 
REVOLUTION. On your own day 
Y ou are believed. 
Supreme success, 
Furthering through perserverance. 
Remorse disappears. 
: 
Political revolutions are extremely grave matters. They should be 
undertaken only under stress of direst necessity, when there is no 
other way out. Not everyone is called to this task, but only the man 
who has the confidence of the people, and even he only when the 
time is ripe. He must then proceed in the right way, so that he gladdens 
the people and, by enlightening them, prevents excesses. Furthermore, 
he must be quite free of selfish aims and must really relieve the need 
of the people. Only then does he have nothing to regret. 
Times change, and with them their demands. Thus the seasons change 
in the course of the year. In-the world cycle also there are spring and 
autumn in the life of peoples and 
transformations. 
THE IMAGE 
Fire in the lake: the image of REVOLUTION. 
Thus the superior man 
Sets the calendar in order 
And makes the seasons clear. 
“Fire below and the lake above combat and destroy each other. So too 
in the course of the year a combat takes place between the forces of 
light and the forces of darkness, eventuating in the revolution of the 
or 
seasons. Man masters these changes in nature by noting their regularity 
and marking Gff the passage of time accordingly. 
In this way order and 
clarity appear in the apparently chaotic changes of the seasons, and man 
is able to adjust himself in advance to the demands of the different times. 
nations, and these call for social 
I have coined the term ‘bisociation’ in order to make a distinction 
between the routine skills of thinking on a single ‘plane’, as it were, 
and the creative act, which, as I shall try to show, always operates on 
more than One plane. The former may be called single-minded, the latter a 
double-minded, transitory state of unstable equilibrium where the balance of 
both emotion and thought is disturbed. 
Everybody can ride a bicycle, but nobody knows how it is done. Not even engi- 
neers and bicycle manufacturers know the formula for the correct niethod of 
counteracting the tendency to fall by turning the handlebars so that ‘for a given 
angle of unbalance the curvature of each winding is inversely proportional to the 
square of the speed at which the cyclist is proceeding’. The cyclist obeys a code 
of rules which is specifiable, but which he cannot specify; he could write on his 
number-plate Pascal’s motto: ‘Le cceur a ses raisons que la raison ne connait 
point.’ Or, to put it in a more abstract way: 
The controls of a skilled activity generally function below the level of conscicus- 
ness on which that activity takes place. The code is a hidden persuader. 
This applies not only to our visceral activities and muscular skills, but also to the 
skill of perceiving the world around us in a coherent and meaningfd! manner. 
Hold your left hand six inches, the other twelve inches, away from your eyes; 
they will look about the same size, although the retinal image of the left is 
twice the size of the right. Trace the contours of your face with a soapy finger 
on the bathroom mirror (it is easily done by closing one eye). There is a shock 
waiting: the image which looked life-size has shrunk to half-size. like a head- 
hunter&S trophy. A person walking away does not seem to become a dwarf—as 
he should; a black glove looks just as black in the sunlight as in shadow—though 
it should not; when a coin is held before the eyes in a tilted position its retinal 
projection will be a more or less flattenéd ellipse; yet we see it as a circle, because 
we know it to be a circle; and it takes some effort to see it actually as a squashed 
oval shape. Seeing is believing, as the saying goes, but the reverse is also true: 
knowing is seeing. ‘Even the most elementary perceptions,’ wrote Bartlett, ‘have 
the character of inferential constructions.’ 
But the inferential process, which 
controls perception, again works unconsciously. Seeing isa skill, part innate, 
part acquired in early infancy. The selective codes in this case Operate on the 
input, not on the output. The stimuli impinging on the senses provide only the 
raw material of our conscious experience—the ‘booming, buzzing confusion’ of 
William James; before reaching awareness the input is filtered, processed, dis- 
torted, interpreted, and reorganized in a series of relay-stations at various levels 
of the nervous system; but the processing itself is not experienced by the person, 
and the rules of the game according to which the controls work are unknown 
to him. 
‘| CHING 
WILHELM 
/ 
BAY HES 
ROLLINGEM SERE 
The | Ching 
Translated by Richard Wilhelm, Cary F. Baynes 
?B.C:; 740 pp. 
$6.00 postpaid 
from: 
Princeton University Press 
Princeton, New Jersey 08540 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Learn: ng 
él 
