Beware Of HyLab 
| am a cameraman working for a film company on location in 
Colorado, and am a California resident. | am writing in regard to a 
very unfortunate incident which has recently happened to me. 
In your March 1970 Supplement you listed the HyLab Company, 
Box 8625 Chicago, III., and described them as selling chemicals to 
small laboratories. Because my son has a chemistry set and | often 
have need for chemicals in my profession, | wrote them at the end 
of May requesting a catalog and/or price list. | received a letter from 
them in the middle of July in which they explained they were 
sorry but they were out of business and could not help me. Last 
week a friend fo mine that is a deputy sheriff in this town informed 
me that the town marshal had received a letter from ‘‘a chemical 
company” informing him that | was ordering chemicals to make 
LSD and that | should be placed under observation. 
This allegation is absolutely untrue and | consider it a flagrant 
violation of my civil rights and an 
invasion of privacy. In the light 
of recent activities of the FBI in libraries, the action of the special 
police unit in Santa Barbara, the Kent State incident, just to name 
a few, | am very concerned. | don’t know if this company is an FBI 
or police front but | don’t like it. | am very upset that you would 
list a company like this in your catalog without a more complete 
investigation of it. | wonder how 
many of your readers (without 
better contact with their local police than | have) have innocently 
written this company and are now on police lists or are under 
surveillance as potential subversives. | would hope that you could 
print some kind of warning to your readers to avoid this company. 
We appreciate and enjoy your catalogs but now we must wonder if 
we write for anything that might be considered illicit such as books 
on drugs or pot, political books, chemicals, etc. that we may end up 
on the same or other police lists for observation. 
If you should decide to investigate | hope we hear from you. 
| am also writing Senator Alan Cranston, HyLab company, and my 
lawyer. 
Larry G. Logan 
Telluride, Colorado 
Sudbury 
You should definitely know that soil test kits were tested and the 
SUDBURY KIT flunked! Shocking isn’t it. 
This is from a soil textbook Soils, 
An Introduction to Soils & Plant 
Growth by Roy L. Donahue. He quotes Ernest L. Spencer & J.R. 
Beckinbach, “The Value of Soil Testing Kits in Vegetable Crop 
Production”’ from the Florida Agricultural Experimental Station 
Circular S-48, They end up recommending the Hellige—Jruog kit 
(from Hellige, Inc. 3718 Northern Blvd. Long Island City, 1, N.Y.) 
It is no doubt more expensive—but really, are you going to test 
: 
your soil or not? It is also remotely possible that Sudberry has 
fixed their kit since the test. 
Mikal Deese 
Rockport, Wa. 
| thought | would drop a line of criticism on an !tem | am critical 
of, the Sudbury Soil test Kit, | ordered their 40$ kit mistakenly 
thinking that the ad ‘‘more tests’’ meant more different kinds, 
actually it is more of the same as the small kits. Also in the Southwest 
their potash test is invalid High Alclinity makes the Potash an 
unavaliable to the testing. When testing high ph (above 7) soils 
even though they are derived from granite and highly mineralized 
mountain soil, they test as defficent in potash, this is not the actual 
situation as potash is avalable to the plants through by products of 
organic decomposition, if enough organic matter is used. 
After working this out | wrote a letter to Sudbury asking to return 
the kit, the Invoice stated that kits on free trial cannot be returned 
without permission from the company (there was nothing like this 
in the add) there was No Answer for along while then 
a HEAVY 
Letter demanding payment and no permesion to return the kit 
which | had decided was NOT the most useful 
garden aid | have 
ever used, | just packed the thing up and returned it to them and 
-that was that. So | recomend that anyone who wants to try this 
kit buy the smallest and intend to keep it unless they want to, 
hassle. 
Jim Sanford 
Gila, New Mexico 
Craftsman vs. Woodcraft 
Re Craftsman Wood Service (listed in the catalog). | ordered 4 
items from Craftsman July 2 and enclosed a check in full payment. 
After a 50-day hassle 
| ended up with a partial refund, one item for 
which they had substituted a different size. Neither of the two items | 
| received was of better or 
more unusual quality than | could have 
obtained locally, 
| suggest you remove Craftsman from your catalog because of POOR 
QUALITY, POOR SERVICE, UNUSUAL DELAY, and FAILURE 
TO SUPPLY 3 of 4 items ordered. 
In comparison: | sent for and received 2 separate orders from 
Woodcraft Supply Corporation during the above period of time. The 
quality was excellent to superior and the service was_ 
superior; 
| received my order in less than 2 weeks. | highly recommend 
Woodcraft to anyone who would like the best at average cost with 
rapid service. 
cc: Craftsman 
Karen J. Jacobs 
Pompono Beach, Florida 
eee 
“\n 
Hy 
SPV 
SOMPLAINT 
You are providing the incentive and/or the means for talking up 
a wide number of alternative occupations. About those on the 
general theme of ‘back to the land’: 
Does not the ‘Animals Beware’ ad. on page 19 of the July supple- 
ment advocate, condone by it’s inclusion the use of extreme 
cruelty? Surely there is nothing alternative about the use of this 
back to the land item, it is merely extending the reach of city bred 
nastiness into the wilderness. | realize that these cruel jaw animal 
traps have been used for many years—but surely you are about 
encouraging NEW woes of virgin territory? In a previous catalog 
you picture a wolf and a cub and made a plea for the preservation 
of the species. The two items do not exactly match up. You do not 
plug organic farming on one page and arsenic weed killer on 
another, so why be inconsistent about this? 
| hope that the editorial staff might consider scrubbing the plug in 
future editions, 
a few moments of thought on a fox or @ badger 
chewing off it’s own foot in order to excape such a trap would 
possibly provide some incentive. Best of all—why not an actual 
disclaimer? Surely it would not be against any stated intentions 
of your publication to clearly point out that traps which cause 
acute pain to animals are in no way endorsed by you? ‘Catch 
‘em alive AND unhurt” traps are available for those wishing to 
catch breeding stock or animals for the table which can be 
killed instantly within the trap. | expect most manufacturers 
carry such a line. Two | know of are: 
Havahart Humane Animal Traps 
Allcock Mfg. Co. 
North Water St. 
Ossining, New York 10562 
(specializing in humane traps) 
The Johnson Company 
Waverly, Kentucky 42462 
Hopefully... 
Rod Chadwick 
Portland, Oregon 
More On Aladdin 
A note on Aladdin Kerosene lamps—You ought to say 
that you'll get a column of flame up the chimney if you 
do forget to baby the flame too long—also—more 
importantly, !’m told you risk a dandy fire if you knock one 
over lit, and see no reason from the design, that shouldn't 
be true. There’s nothing (or was never when | was using 
them) to keep liquid kerosene from running into the 
chimney if they’re horizontal. (in a Coleman, of course, the 
feed is pressure, so constant unless you turn the valve— 
Aladdin's had wicks). 
Thad Curtz 
Santa Cruz, Ca. 
Sense And Patience 
People, you gotta use some sense when you read the catalog. We 
don’t know everything, & we ain’t allways right. And you gotta 
use some sense when you complain. Like the P.O. is fucked up & 
out there it often takes 3-4 week to get Parcel Post from back East, 
longer 4th class book rate. 
Write to the company first and give them a-chance to rectify the 
problem. If they don’t, write to us & send us copies of your 
correspondence 
We just might cease to list the company. Let us 
know about unusually good service, too. 
Be gentle, Sometimes we carry very small companies, They often 
have avery hard time coping with the volume of enquiries they 
receive as a result of their unrequested listing. Especially when most 
of the requests for literature seem to be just curiosity. That kind of 
thing can break a small company. So don’t write just to keep your 
mail box full. 
: 
Fred 
Hughes Is Swamped 
This letter is to let you know that the Hughes Company 
of 8665 W. 13th Avenue, Denver, Colorado, 80215, that 
is listed in your catalog is not an honest organization. | 
placed my order in January for a dulcimer kit. Since then 
| have written two letters asking where it was and finally 
a third asking for a refund of my $14.45 or the arrival of 
the kit. Needless to say | did not even get the courtesy 
— 
of a reply. 
May | request that you warn your readers against this 
dishonest or nonexistant organization. 
In reference to the letter regarding the Hughes Company 
which | sent on July 28, 1970, | wish to report that | finally 
received my dulcimer kit by means of a friend who was 
passing through Denver. My friend received courteous per- 
sonal attention from Mrs. Huges. She explained that 
because of the ad in your catalog, they were so deluged 
with orders that they have had difficulty keeping up with 
the demand and in keeping orders straight. 
Thank you. 
Jodi Watts 
Alexandria, Va. 
BBC 
a, 
| disagree most strongly with some of the sweeping statements made 
in Hugh Nolan’s letter on page 41 of your July supplement re. the 
B.B.C, in England and radio in Europe generally. 
> 
| am English and | miss like blazes the intelligent, broad minded, enter 
entertaining variety of the BBC’s radio and television broadcasts. | am 
told that some expensive radio sets obtainable here, do actually pick 
up the BBC. Incidentally if anyone has any knowledge of these— 
like which model is the cheapest that wil! pick up BBC programmes 
—it would be a worthwhile item for W.E.C. 
BBC radio puts out four seperate channels, different in staffing, 
content, editorial policy etc etc. Broadly speaking one is pop and 
fairly underground—it is frequently causing controversy and is not 
stagnant, a second is ‘light’, the ‘Mantovoni for the mums and dads’ 
section but with plays, magazine programmes, live comedy and — 
variety shows. For some reason a sort of tradition of blue comedy 
~ 
shows persists at the unlikely spot of early Sunday afternoon. The 
third is up and away highbrow, no other way to describe it. It has 
a minority audience but it’s expenditure sheets do not show it. 
They do wierd things like a live recital of a one handed drum concerto 
which runs for two hours, | made that up, but on April 1st they 
have been known to do things just like that, to see how many 
appreciative letters they can get from pseudo intellectuals. The 
a 
fourth channel is for news, documentaries, plays, talk shows—(though 
| hesitate to use the term because | don’t mean a Merv Griffin of 
the radio type of thing) — 
education. They have a university of the 
air starting up, which will enroll students and give degrees and run 
in conjunction with Oxford, Cambridge, etc—and for years people — 
have been doing unlikely things like learning Chinese and Russian 
from Saturday mornings with their radio. | do not mean to say that 
BBC programmes are without fault, but they are the best in the 
s 
world. Any professional from any other nation will readily agree with 
_ 
that. | do hate to see them knocked, and | especially hate tosee the 
__ 4 
BBC put down in the U.S.A. in case this affords solace to any 
7 
member of the American radio/T.V, audience and makes them thus 
less concerned about the quality of their own media. 
i 
MOST IMPORTANTLY- have to completely knock down Nolan’s — 
mn 
clear allegation that the BBC “‘is totally government controlled and 
run.” This is fuel to an already existing fire of misunderstanding 
4 
which to too prevalent outside of England. The FACT of the matter 
is that the BBC runs under a unique system 
of control named a 
" 
Royal Charter. They have aboard of governors and achairmanand 
they virtually control themselves. 
Any attempt by amere politician 
to impose his will on the corporation is proclaimed 
by the watchdog 
press and a general. public outcry. Harold Wilson had a well 
“4 
known difference of opinion with the BBC and for many months 
would only appear on the rival_commercial TV networks. He wanted 
a less aggressive, pre-agreed format, interview agreement. The BBC 
¥ 
said ‘‘no chance”’ and'so he simply stayed off the air and kept as 
many of his sidekicks off the air as he could persuade also. All 
that occurred while Mr. Wilson was Prime Minister and is well 
documented. Does that sound like government CONTROL? That 
is only one incident, there are constant news reports of attempted 
government interference in broadcasting which all get absolutely 
nowhere. Usually these attempts are extremely mild overtures which 
certainly would not raise an eyebrow here, but they rate screaming 
protest publicity nevertheless. 
~R.M, Chadwick 
Portland, Oregon 
, 
Alaska Sleeping Bag Co. 
| sent an order into the Alaska Sleeping Bag company for 
$14.00. They not only did not send me what | ordered, 
they did not send me back my money, so | suggest that 
4 
perhaps you should not give them any future plugs in your 
catalogs. 
ges 
Ellen Louise Humes 
Cheney, Wa. 
- 
The item we ordered was the dog pack. 
> 
