i 
ene, OR 
ees 
al 
= 
Pe 
é 
Correspondence Schools 
‘ou asked for comments on correspondence schools in relation to 
a suggestion in your spring issue, and | happen to have a few. | 
worked with a reporter gathering information for a story on the 
‘subject, and the results were depressing. (The story appeared in the 
New York Times on May 31, 1970.) 
The catalog suggestion was to write the National Home Study Coun- 
cil for information about courses. If someone is bent on taking a 
correspondence course, the Council is the best source of informa- 
tion for halfway reputable schools, because the Council is the only 
“nationally recognized agency in the field. It has established mini- 
- mum standards for business and educational operations and is sup- 
posedly held, by Federal law, to the same standards as the agencies 
which issue accreditation to resident-type schools and colleges. 
~ However, this does not hold up for there is little regulation by the 
states or the Federal government. Last fall, for example, the accred- 
_ 
iting commission of the Council examined 6 Crowell-Collier insti- 
tutions (remember your friendly Collier’s Encyclopedia salesman ?) 
and withdrew their accreditation. The major Crowell-Collier school 
is LaSalle Extension University of Chicago, and without its accredi- 
tation, the State of I!linois was required by Federal law to change 
its status. Among other things, this would have made LaSalle ineligi- 
ble for any funds from any of the G.|. and Veterans education bills. 
But nothing was done. (An unknown 
number of LaSalle executives 
purchased tickets to a $100-a-plate political dinner for the Super- 
; intendent of Public Instruction for the State of Illinois.) Crowell- 
Collier also filed an anti-trust suit against the Council. Having no 
funds for a court fight and no encouragement ‘from any of the 
Federal agencies, the Council accepted the Crowell-Collier settle- 
ment out of court, reaccrediting LaSalle and the other schools. 
x= 
STUDY 
re ees Bess 
keeping, 
Business Forms, Pen- 
ul 
pence is 
Com’! Law, Letter 
Writing, Arithmetic, Short. 
MAIL at 
; 
| 
anteed every 
We give a useful,MoneyMaking 
«7 
Education which leads toa 
it.Catalog free, 
_!Trialiesson 100 
~ So, although the National Home Study Council has set standards, 
; jt has no way to enforce them, thus leaving the question of quality 
up to the individual schools. Two schools which have maintained 
high standards are the advanced Trade School and the American 
School, both in Chicago and both offering a wide range of courses. 
These two schools run credit checks on applicants, administer 
valid admissions tests, actually turning away those who fail, and pay 
their salesmen a salary rather than a commission based on how many 
_ people they sign up. 
fs 
~ Many schools don’t have admissions tests, and those that do often 
_ make the tests ridiculously easy to pass. Many of the schools pay 
no attention to the results of their tests anyway. In other words, 
4 for many courses, if you can sign on the dotted line and make the 
_ down payment, you've met all the necessary requirements. 
Many of the courses are very over-priced for what is provided. 
’ Private correspondence schools charge from less than $100 to 
more than $2500 and the average course costs between $300 and 
$600. 
~ In many” places, there are less expensive alternatives available to 
home study courses. Many universities, colleges, local government 
- 
adult education programs, churches, YM and YWCAs, civic groups, 
— etc., offer courses in’a wide variety of subjects to the general public, 
usually for nominal fees and/or the cost of any materials. For 
- instance, if you live in New York, check the Photography page in the 
Entertainment Section of the Sunday New York Times for locations, 
dates, and costs of beginning and advanced courses in photography. 
*~Your local U.S. Department of Agriculture extension office makes 
- -available a great amount of information and demonstrations on 
a farming. Check with local companies in your field of interest; many 
run their own training programs. | also know of people who have 
actually apprentised themselves to local craftsmen, one to a 
harpsichord maker, the other to a cabinetmaker. 
_ \t is much easier to check the reputations of courses offered locally, 
but if nothing is available then write the National Home Study 
Council for a list of schools offering the course you want. Send away 
to all the schools suggested, and from the ensuing, and never-ending 
deluge of promotional mail, pick the one which seems to be the 
_ most reputable and seems to offer the exact course or training that 
~ 
you want.. 
; 
me 
Finally, should you sign up for a course and then find out that it 
isn't what it was advertised to be, send your letter of resignation 
by registered mail. 
Learn to Hypnotize! 
You can control others 
aud compel them to think, actand 
feel as you desire. 
Gratifies every wish, You can make others love 
and obey you. 
uces fun by the hour. Cured 
diseases and bad habits. Newand Instantaneous 
method. 
Quickest and best on earth. I guarantee 
success. Mammoth illustrated 
LES GOW end full 
particulars FREE s Send your address at once. 
~ However, if you want to get rich quick, which is the result promised 
by most of these schools, and you have no scruples about ripping off 
‘unsuspecting poor people, instead of taking a correspondence 
course, | suggest you try selling one. All you need do is follow the 
. 
vice which a Dr. Richard S. Frazer gave to members of the Asso- 
Dr. Frazer's suggestions: Immediately offer courses in 200 subjects 
and decide on public response .to an advertising campaign which 
Progressive Colleges? 
Do you know of someplace | can write which would send 
me a list of Progressive Colleges around the United States? 
| would appreciate it greatly if you could send me any ad- 
dresses that you know of where | might be able to obtain 
such information. 
Thank you very much. 
Lisa Fischel 
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11230 
You’re one of many. We need a New Schools Exchange 
for the college level. Any clues? 
Apprenticeship Program—Teenage Trips 
Tired of high school? Here's an option. Traveler’s Directory will 
list your name and address and what you want to learn and where 
you're at. Use the Directory listing form or a sheet of paper and be 
as clear as you can about what's essential in your life, what you can 
not be happy with or without, or whether you are willing to fit 
yourself to someone elses rules for awhile. We'll also list names, 
addresses, and similar statements of people who are set up working 
on and living at what you want to learn and other things who need 
someone like you just to have more people around or to help out 
somehow. Maybe there's a way you can help to find people in your 
area who would like to have kids come to learn with them and can 
talk them into getting listed, or maybe you already know someone 
to do it with yourself. Tell your friends about the program tell 
everyone. The more people listed the better the program's chances. 
We're not meaning a program with a lot of fixed hours and schedules 
and contracts, just learning by being around and wokking at the 
thing you’re interested in. When you see a listing that interests 
you write them and set up the apprenticeship—talking it out first 
in as much detail as you or your parents want. The apprenticeship 
family covers living expenses and your family travelling and extras. 
When you want to learn something else you move on. Being away 
from home will help you beat truancy. When you or your parents 
want, credit, transcripts, and a diploma at the right time (anda 
covering school address) are available, through Pacific High School, 
Box 311, Palo Alto, Calif. 94302 by filling out the application 
form for their Apprenticeship Service Program and retu rning it. 
Tuition for the year would be $200.00. In cases of need reductions 
right down to nothing would be available. You would need to 
write a short report about twice a year, and the person you're 
living and learning with would write one a year. You'd get credit 
for the time spent, your experience being translated if necessary 
into an understandable (by the establishment) course title. |f you 
are 17 or more when you leave the program P.H.S. will grant a di- 
ploma. Transcripts can be sent out for the time spent even if you 
don’t graduate. But anyone can join the Apprenticeship Program 
by listing in Travelers’ Directory without going through Pacific 
High School when credit isn’t wanted. 
If you are out of your teens, no matter how far out, and you have 
skills or learning you’d like to communicate, rescue a teenager from 
the system and be your own alternative to compulsory education by 
sharing your home, your trade or art or craft or knowledge about 
something, or skill or whatever you’re really involved in and good 
doing with them. Somebody somewhere wants to learn everything 
there is to learn anywhere. Get listed in Travelers’ Directory as an 
Apprenticeship family or individual. Be really clear in your state- 
ment about what you would expect in the way of help or behavior, 
or not expect, to avoid disappointment. If enough of you do it, 
take the trouble (and the help) and the expense of covering your 
apprentices room and board, we will force the establishment schools 
to make themselves a better place to be. Do whatever you can to 
spread this information. |f you are not interested maybe you know 
someone who would be. Help us help it work. 
Write to: TRAVELERS’ DIRECTORY 
Editor Peter Kacalanos 
51-02 — 39th Ave. 
Woodside, N.Y. 11377 
Lois Haas 
Upper Black Eddy, Pa. 
nae 
of the 200 is the most likely best-seller,.and provide that one. 
Select a textbook on the subject and order a gross from the pub- 
lisher, then have a bookbinder split these books into 20-page units 
of lessons (new covers should be designed, taking care to leave space 
for stamping on the title and number of each “‘lesson’’). For your 
promotional campaign, Dr. Frazer recommends, for example, per- 
fumed mailings and the use of “*gadgets, gimmicks, premiums, 
giveaways, and special formats.”’ Then when your sales begin to level 
off, begin preparation of your second course. 
A quick look at the advertising layouts and promotional materials 
of most of the correspondence schools would lead anyone to 
believe that large numbers of them are doing exactly what Dr. 
Frazer suggests. And many of them go even further—they hire 
salesmen who are inadequately trained and paid only a commission 
based on their sales, with no wreimbursement for expenses. In order 
to make sales, these men, whether instructed by their employers 
or not, misrepresent the courses they sell in many’ ways. In other 
words, they tell outright lies in their presentations. (The salesman 
from LaSalle who called on me informed...me, when | told him | 
worked for the New York Times , that “alot of the top men there 
got most of their training at LaSalle. | know of one—| can't recall 
his name right off—who got all of his training through LaSalle.” Ha.) 
1 could relate other examples of misrepresentation by salesmen, if 
you want, but | doubt you have room to run this letter as it is. You 
may use what | have said here any way you can. | hope | have been 
of some help. 
; 
: 
Sincerely, 
Adrianne Burk 
Washington, D.C. 
Trailer Life 
First, Jet me thank you for the Catalog. | and my friend my dog & 
cat are exiled to a carnival in Michigan and your catalog is like a 
bigwarm letter from the whole counter-culture. My reason for 
writing is to share with you something of our life style that might 
help others. 
All the families on the show have house trailers and each week we 
set up our little village in a different (and sometimes a little hostile) 
- place. Like fairground, behind gas stations, ball parks. For this one 
needs a truck to pull trailer (or heavy car), lots of hoses and electric 
cords, “Y‘s” (an object shaped 
[like a Y] used to connect untold 
numbers of trailers to the same water hookup.), a shovel to dig 
a hole if you don’t have a self-contained bathroom. 
We have a 27 foot 1957 trailer that has been our year-round home 
for over a year and it’s just like an apartment but better. It needed 
a paint job so we all got stoned and did it pink, yellow, and orange. 
And I've got the outdoors all around. 
it cost $900 and the only money that we had to spend was for 
travel, i.e. hitch $200, tires $100. The rest has : 
gone for rugs, 
sound systems, posters orange light bulbs and lots of contact. But 
its 
ahome and its beautiful. The new trailers are more expensive 
($3,000 & up for one our size) and very sterile. 
| don’t know about California but the Mid West is full of old trailers 
& so is Florida. The old.folks in the retirement parks trade in some- 
times. The only drawback is our neighbors. Carnival people are a sub- 
culture but not ours. Trailer parks are full of nice middle ciass folks. 
But if a group of friendly freaks decided to get back to nature, 
| think a trailer is easier: \for the city folks than building a log cabin. 
Susan Sullivan 
Flushing, N.Y. 
Homemade Harps 
Gents, 
I was told—by a friend at Stanford Research, that 
you folks might be interested in my business. 
Frankly it isn’t much—but I sure like it. 
Robinson 
THE IRISH HARP 
Specifications: 
Height 
40 inches 
Width 
12 inches 
Weight 
13 pounds 
30 strings from G above treble clef to F below bass clef. 
Price includes stand with 12-14-16 inch legs, and tuning key. 
Price even ns Skaee atest $398.00 
ROBINSON’S HARP SHOP 
P.O. BOX 
141 
MOUNT 
LAGUNA, CALIFORNIA 
92048 
Vermont 
Catalog readers seriously interested in rural living, but still concern- 
ed about political change (which seems pretty much urban-oriented) 
might be interested in a move to Vermont idea being promoted by 
some New York people. By encouraging us of the “alternative . 
society’’ to establish residence in Vermont, their hope:is to create 
new & constructive energy in that state’s political machinery. And 
from there, who knows? | wrote to them for info and if useful, I'll 
send it on. 
Their address: 
The Society for a New America 
14 Margaret Street 
Saranac Lake, New York 12983 
Robert Malone, 
East Haven, Ct. 
vi 
