lrish Folk Ways 
Irish Folk Ways 
by E. Estyn Evans, 
1967: 342pp. 
20s. published by 
Routledge & Kegan Paul Ltd., 
Broadway House, 
69-74 Carter Lane, 
London E.C.4. 
This should be subtitled ‘How to 
ignore the advertisements of the 
Agricultural Industry and live.’ 
Proof, if proof is needed, that you 
don’t need much metal and 
more 
money to get by. Concentrating 
Mud walls were built up with a fork in 
layers twelve to eighteen inches deep of 
a mixture of damp clay and cut rushes 
which had been left to go sour. A stone 
foundation layer sunk into the ground 
was usually built first, and sometimes 
the gable ends, especially if a chimney 
- 
flue was to be included, were built 
entirely of stone. They were after- 
wards trimmed with a sharp spade to 
a thickness which averages about 
twenty inches but may be as much as 
largely on the least fertile parts of 
thirty. 
Ireland, E.E. Evans describes in detail 
the tools, techniques and building 
which, for 5,000 years or more in 
some 
cases, people have been using to 
provide shelter, food, warmth and not 
a few treats in competition with the 
rougher edge of nature. It should be of 
inspirational use at the very least to 
anyone living independent of too much 
technology. Well illustrated both in 
line and half tone, the book describes, 
among many other things, building 
and thatching methods, hand culti- 
vation techniques, carts, boats, rope 
making, fencing and walling, furniture 
making and fishing. With the minimum 
of equipment the book would enable 
you to produce duplicates and there 
are copious footnotes if you want to 
follow up any specifics. 
from: 
Whole Earth Catalogue, 
British edition 
305 Portobello Road 
London W. 10 
England 
Announcing: Australian WEC 
We own a bookshop in Melbourne stocking mainly books 
from America—that is— the books from America (and some 
local & British) that have meaning to todays consciousness 
and a positive vision for the future. We've been in operation 
about 1 year and the response to the type of books we 
stock has been wonderful: People ‘‘Down Under” are star- 
ved for Real information 
. 
. 
. because of the big business 
setup of most bookstores here . 
. 
. only certain British books 
make the stands. We are trying to do something about, are 
having great success with the public but much opposition 
from the trade. 
We have been selling W.E.C. for abour four months (the 
only outlet in Aust. to my knowledge) and the response 
has been nothing short of incredible 
. 
. 
. we keep ordering 
larger quantities and selling out even before they arrive. The 
only complaint that W.E.C. buyers have is that there isn’t 
any local information. We have decided to remedy that 
with an Australian version of W.E.C. We plan an initial 
printing of 4000 to be distributed to all states by a large 
distributing company. Our version will contain not only a 
catalog section but also articles on ecology, communes, 
travel, etc. etc., also, there will bé a section devoted to 
what could be called — New Age Creative Output —... 
this will include poetry, plays, fiction, film scripts, photos, 
drawings etc. Because we believe the three sections relate 
to one another, 
help each other, we hope that our readers 
will discover new areas which they were not aware of. 
The Source 
(Books from America) 
121 Collins St., Melbourne, 
Vic. 3000, Australia 
Tree Seeds? 
| am trying to start a small collection of trees in southern 
Ontario, Canada and would appreciate the help of your 
readers in getting sources for seeds of trees from places any- 
where in the world but especially the United States and Eu- 
rope. 
| am especially interested in all non-fruit trees—not shrubs— 
that are capable of being grown in up to latitude 50 in the 
northern hemisphere around the great lakes. 
Any information your readers could give me by writing me 
personally or by inclusion in an edition of the magazine 
would be most welcome as well as available for the use of 
anyone desiring to start a similar collection. 
Fred Roth 
2786 Dublin St. 
Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada 
Hay ropes are both softer and stronger 
than straw and were used, for example, 
for parts of the harness where straw 
ropes would be chafed and broken. 
They were naturally employed for sec- 
uring large cocks of hay against the 
wind; and tethers for young animals 
were often made of hay rope. A 
Donegal landlord writing of the early 
nineteenth century tells of cabbages 
tethered against the wind with hay 
ropes. 
Fic. 58. Slipes. (1) Forked slipe, Co. Antrim. (2, 8) Stone slipes, Co. Down. 
(4) Manure slipe, Co. Down. (5) Turf slipe, Co. Antrim. 
_ 
WORLD NOTES 
Hand Husker? 
On the island of Formentera, among other things, are grown Oats 
and Barley. Since the local people only raise these crops for 
chicken-feed, . 
there isn't available any means of husking the grains 
and using them as a grain food, like rice or wheat. So far, all we've 
been able to do is mill the whole thing, then sift out the husks and 
use the flour. So— 
Can you recommend a hand machine for husking oats & barley? 
Either in the U.S. or England? Do you know how this husking is 
accomplished in the food industry in general? 
1t would really be very nice if you could help us with this. 
Yours Sincerely, 
R. Altman 
San Francisco 
Formentera, Baleares, 
Spain. 
Memo From Paradise 
A couple of years ago | discovered this little country. It’s not really 
acountry, yet, it’s a colony. It’s a tropical place; got a lot of rivers, 
mountains, coconut trees, parrots, islands, monkeys, cashew wine, 
stone crab, jaguars, sailing boats, fish, rum, reefs and some other 
things. All sorts of people live here. Some are tan and are black and 
some are freckled and some are white. If you speak a little Spanish, 
English, Maya, Carib or Creole you will be understood here. 
Awhile back | brought my wife and kids here and bought a piece of 
an island and built a house. The island has a village, about 400 
people, they fish, sail around, while all the kids swim and splash 
around and laugh a lot. What I’m going to do is build a couple of 
cabins on the beach and have some boats and let people come out 
here and go diving, swimming, fishing, sailing or whatever, | think 
they will want to go home and sell all their stuff and come back and 
do something. 
We could sure use some teachers or farmers or marine biologist 
types, Or some people-who could figure out how to make something 
useful or exportable from whatever natural resources we have here. 
Actually, we don’t like to admit it, but, we are not too sure just 
what we do have. There just hasn't been enough exploration of a 
scientific nature around here. 
Anyhow, if you're not involved in some big thing right now, gas up 
the car and come on 
down. The place is called British Honduras. 
It’s just south of Quintana Roo and east of Guatemala on the 
as 
Caribbean coast. 
\f you're not that impulsive and want more facts and information on 
the place, let me know and I’I| do what | can. 
‘ 
Frank Bazzell 
Caye Caulker 
British Honduras 
Both scythe and sickle are personal 
OS 
ey 
possessions and their luck is personal; 
they are loaned with reluctance. 
When asickle is borrowed it should 
not be passed from hand to hand but 
thrown on the ground and then picked 
up. This belief, which applies to all 
pointed objects, may be explained by 
the danger of handling a sharp tool, 
for bad luck is often related to bad 
practice. 
In some parts of the country, espeej- 
ally along the east coast, a form of 
sled fitted with a box body is kept for 
the transport of manure, though it 
is also used for carrying earth on steep 
slopes where the soil is washed away 
and is tediously replaced. In this form 
of sled the runners are deep and set 
close together so that 
the load can be 
tipped out over the side. The sled or 
slipe is transport-agent of remark- 
able versatility, ideally suited for small- 
scale operations involving heavy loads, 
and it persists because for some 
purposes no more convenient method 
— 
of transport can be devised. 
Peace Corps Defended 
In response to the catchy ad to join the Peace Corps (July 
1970 catalog, page 44) . 
. .. No wonder middle America’s tax- 
payers protest paying taxes to support the Peace Corps: Meret 
local travel agency.’’ Mobius Polymers Unltd.’s blatant 
confession of how to exploit for greater fun and free amuse- 
ment is just the sort of food that feeds a hostile conservative’s 
low opinion of governmental aid agencies. 
j 
The Peace Corps as described in the Mobius letter sounds too 
| 
good to be true. 
. 
. to someone who wants to take all that 
he can while giving nothing in return, who patronizingly talks 
of ‘enjoying better aspects of natives . 
. .’” and whose mat- 
erialistic uninvolved approach provides him with a backdrop 
of total non-experience whether he imposes non-self on a 
: 
bush town in Appalachia, or in Tunisia. This attitude makes 
the colonialists sound like Super Altruists. 
Countries in which Peace Corps sends volunteers have more ‘ 
than their share of natural problems: so why laden them with 
with U.S. suburban guerillas on a large ego trip? 
Paix 
-Julia C.S. Keefe 
Chapel Hill, North Carolina 
Veteran volunteer, 
Senegal, West Africa 
- 
Summer Digs 
The Council for British Archaeology, 10 Bolton Gardens, London, 
S.W. 5 publishes Calendar of Excavations, c. 50 cents per year mon- 
thly March through September. This bulletin lists archaeological 
digs (and field schools) planned or under Way in Britain with de- 
» 
Fe 
tails of salary, type of work, qualifications wanted, etc. With no 
previous experience a digger can often get paid 10 shillings per day 
9 
by the Ministry of Works—enough for room and board. More, if 
. ie 
you can camp. There’s usually oppertunity for weekends or weeks 
— 
off work for hitching around. Digs generally run during the four 
; 
summer months, and you can usually work all or part of the summer 
and thus live in England free—often in a sort of camping commune 
a 
which lets you get to know people and places. With $50 cash | 
ag 
flew a charter flight New York-London round-trip for $210 and 
returned with some of my cash. Part of the plane fare investment 
was made up by the fact that | could buy a few “bermanent”’ poss- 
. 
essions there for about half what they would have cost here in the 
U.S. Thus the trip really cost about $100 more than living in the 
U.S. without an income—but living here | would have had expenses 
(and no job). You can quickly find out all sorts of free places to 
} 
crash, travel, eat, etc. once you have a ‘‘base’’ in Europe. But if you 
want to get 
paid, make arrangements in advance. You may ‘be able 
to get “room” (or tent) free if you simply show up at a camping 
dig, but the Ministry of Works money has to be arranged for. At the 
least the Calendar may provide a travelogue of crash pads—probably 
in return for volunteer labor; it’s better to get alittle pay, though— 
and fairly easy. (Digs in America are generally much less interested 
; 
in volunteers or employees—they have more field student-slaves 
available! University anthropology departments and various state 
; 
archaeological societies and American Antiquity may be of some 
help, but paying jobs are few.) 
+. 
John R. Cole 
Ee 
Lincoln, Nebraska 
ae 
' 
7 
2 
‘ 
Ee 
ee eee ne 
