IN THE BUSH 
Dear Mr. J.D. Smith 
Mr. J.D. Smith if you go in the bush in the summer time you might 
need mosquito dope. You need guns, food, blankets, tea, bread and 
~ 
etc. In the summer if you want to go in the bush you need a boat 
to travel in water. If your going to rat river there are some houses 
that you can sleep in over night. There are some houses in Buffalo 
river also. There is lots of wildlife in the summer. When Indians go 
in the bush They make bannock and maybe someone can make 
you bannock for a dollar or 2. Maybe you can make some yourself 
its simple. Add flour, baking powder, water, melted lard and mix 
with ¥ cup of sugar and cook. take heavy food not hotdogs or 
light stuff you might want to bring cookies and candy bars fora 
snack. You can build y our own house in the bush. You can set your 
own traps or snares if you like, 
: 
° 
Sincerely yours, 
James Larorque 
WHEN YOUR IN THE BUSH 
Morris Beaulieu 
When you go in the bush in summertime, there’s lots of mosquitos 
in the bush you need some supplies you need axe, saw, shovel, 
: 
guns like 22., 303., 30-30, and shotguns, you need cups, pots and 
pans, plates forks, spoons, knives with pails you could pick some 
berries like gooseberries, strawberries, raspberries, Saskatoon 
berries, mooseberries, and cranberries, you could boil it with flour 
and sugar you need mosquito dope, and food like, baking powder, 
flour, sugar,salt, bacon, butter lard, tea and coffee, 
with a 22 you 
could kill chickens, weasels, minks, and lots of things with 30-30 
you could kill moose, lynx, wolves, caribou and other things 
with a 303. you could kill Buffalo, Bear, and lots of things 
you have lots of fun in the bush. 
Dear Mister J.D. Smith 
In the bush up here it’s pretty good. The weather is good in the 
bush in winter but if it’s in the open its cold sometimes very cold. 
In summer the weathers warm in the bush but there’s lot of mos- 
quitos The main food in the bush is fish meat bannock tea sugar 
salt berries rabbits The equipment you need is a gun and 
ammunitions axe a knife you need a gun to protect you from 
wild animal you can use it to shoot animals to eat like rabbits moose 
or chickens. a axe is useful, too for cutting wood for you fire The 
main use a knife is for skinning or carving. Went your’e staying in 
the bush you should or its more wise to put up your tent close to 
water not to close there might be a storm. 
rabb; P 
/| 
a 
June 18th/1970 Fort Resolu tion 
Dear J.D. Smith, 
In summer or winter if you-are going in the brush you need alot 
of stuff. The grub you might need are sugar, flour, salt, tea and 
baking powder, cups, plates, knives, forks and spoons and some other 
things likes tools shovels chisels axes and you might have to use a 
kicker. Mosquito dope is useful too. It is good to put a tentup 
high and close in water I like it in the Bush better because the 
water is clear. 
24 
Yours, Sincerely 
Tom Roger Beaulieu 
Sin I 
he 
et 
te 
Summer in 
Fort Resolution 
Dear j.d.; 
Thanks for the letter. Glad that you wrote away to the 
Co-ops for their goodies. Some others which | don’t think 
| mentioned—Coppermine (Eskimo), Fort Providence & 
Rae (Indian). | don’t know whether these places have any 
info. on what they produce but | imagine they do. 
I’ve been digging around for some stuff for you. Unfortu- 
nately we're a bit pushed for time at the moment as we're 
heading back to the homeland—New Zealand—via Britain 
& Europe—so what with packing our stuff up and getting 
that off and trying to make the odd arrangement for 
travel we've been “‘flat stick.”’ 
Most of the kids from my class have been in the bush so | 
showed them your note and they wrote down some of the 
things you'd find useful. They'd also written some of the 
stories on summer in this part of the world so I’ve thrown 
these in too. Hope you find them interesting. 
As far as getting someone (native) up here to do something 
for the catalog goes: there aren’t too many who still get 
a living from the bush—there are about 3/4 trappers who 
do pretty well, but other than this it’s welfare with a bit 
of hunting and trapping to supplement this. Also there 
aren’t too many who write. Maybe the best bet in this 
line would be to write the Game Dept. in Yellowknife 
and they may be able to help. Another possibility would be 
to come up-here towards the end of summer (the road 
goes as far as Resolution) and see if you could go out ona 
trapline. Again the Game Dept. would probably help here. 
(Good road to Rae too—biggest Indian village in north.) 
No newspaper here. Town is small (600 approx.) and is 
classified as a “depressed” area by the white man—mainly 
because of all the people on welfare. It’s an interesting 
place. Over the whole north there seems to hang an aura of . 
colonialism which could get worse now that the bureaucrats 
are running things from Yellowknife. After being here a 
year we haven't come away with a good impression of what 
the white man (i.e. Church, Hudson’‘s Bay) has done for the 
natives. Most efforts seem to have demeaned the people and 
- 
here anyway, there isn’t too much of a dialogue going 
between white & native 
people. Latest effort is the N.W.T. 
Centennial—celebrating the sale by the Hudson’s Bay Co. of 
the Native land to the govt. of Canada. This is a Metis 
settlement. Nature in the north is beautiful. The seasons 
changing—the vegetation, the landscape and the wildlife 
with it: the long days of summer, the long nights snow, 
ice and cold of winter; the seasonal activities of the people— 
getting wood; spring hunt; trapping; dog teams; ice fishing; 
picnics; boating—you can really groove on the whole 
scene. The contradictions of the beauty are all the white 
man’s—time, frustration, bureaucracy, “I’m right—you're 
wrong,’’ that sort of stuff gets to you after a while. 
The oil companies are into their bit up here too—although 
| hope (and am sure/hopeful) that there won't be the 
wholesale sellout to big business as there seemed to be in 
Alaska; I'd like to hear everyone say—stick your oil, let's 
turn the whole N.W.T. into a national park where people 
can come and join with nature and groove on the beauty 
and vastness of it all. At least people both in the North and 
outside are concerned and are working for restriction on 
oil and mining interests. 
A couple of worthwhile books you might like to read on 
recommend on the north are—People of the Light and Dark 
and The Unbelievable Land—both available from the 
Queen’s Printer, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada and both pretty 
good resource works. They’re about $2.50 each | think. 
Indian Land Claims in the N.W.T.—1 don’t know about this 
but try dropping a line to the Dept. of Indian Affairs and 
Northern Development in Ottawa. | do know the Indians 
have hunting and fishing rights on all land and that the 
white man is restricted in this to some degree—e.g. one 
moose per season. 
As far as setting down somewhere goes I’ve written to the 
Territorial Govt. and told them to forward you any 
information they can. 
Hope that this isn’t too garbled and that you get some 
satisfactory info from the Govt. If you want td know any 
other things—like names of people who could help if 
someone wants to have bash at it up here—drop me a line 
and | might be able to help—at P.O. Box 282. Pukekohe, 
New Zealand 
~ Cheerio & Peace, 
Peter Hansen 
* 
turns brown and weasels turn brown and the season for trapping isi 
SUMMER IN FORT RESOLUTION 
Tom Beaulieu 
racer 
vr 
ft Bite 
reat 
J 
bd 
g 
4 
Pe 
sci 
od 
IT know when summer is coming because the snow melts and it 
stops snowing. We don’t use dogs and we can’t haul water. Rabbits — 
closed. They clean up yards and kids take their bikes out. We) 2 ya 
played physed outside now. Its warms up and the days get longer 
— 
The grass and the trees get green, gardens are planted. We can ride 
a canoe, Insects come back, We could go berry picking. We could _ 
go swimming and barges come in. We could go fishing and frogs 
come in too. Bears wake up and ptarmigans go away. 
BROS) Stik 
T like summer and winter the same because in summer I goswimming 
and in winter I 
very hockey. The. programs in T.V. are betterin 
‘ 
winter. 
: 
: 
SUMMER IN FORT RESOLUTION 
Morris Beaulieu 
In summer you could go for a Picnic at Polette Creek, Buffalo 
at, 
River, Mission Island, Across the Portage, Sight, and by boat 
ae 
3 
you could go to Round Island. And you could go swimming, all the snow 
and ice melts all the fish spawn in Polette Creek. You could fish: 
- 
in the lake with nets at Polette Creek you fish with 
ahook anda 
22. ora rod. Bears wake up, Rabbits and weasels turn brown, ie 
ang 
grass and the leaves turn green. The gardens are planted. People don’t 
— 
don’t drive dogs anymore. People clean up their yard, People Play 
~ 
baseball barge comes in, some people water ski. People go for 
- —— 
spring hunt to hunt for rats and Beaver. Beavers build dams in the 
summer so they can make a beaver lodge Kids take out their bikes 
— 
to ride around. All the ducks, swans cranes and birds come back. 
} 
Ptarmigans turn brown. They pick berries to eat. They have Sports 
on July Ist there’s lots of Sports. When the ice melts you can drve 
a speed boat a canoe ora scuff. I like it in summer better because 
its warmer and lots of things to do. 
When the snow melts, ice melts I 
know summer coming. I clean 
around my house. I burn grass. I rake it all up. Then they haul it 
away to the dump. The men clean the ditches too. The rabbits 
turn brown so do the weasls. The kids take their bikes out. we don’t 
play inside no more we play outside now we could go to Polette 
Creet and shoot fish instead of buying food or else you could” 
(unsigned) 
SUMMER IN FORT RESOLUTION 
Cecile Lafferty 
When the weather gets warm people clean up their yards and kids’ 
get their bikes out and people go for picnics at Polette Creek or at 
“aa 
Buffalo River. School is over at the end of June so we go for our 
holidays, then kids go swimming and barges come in. We have 
a 
fishing and we have sports. When it ts time for dinner or supper = 
people might cat outside or inside, and when tt is warm the grass 
; 
and trees turn green and the bears 
wake up from their sleep or the 
moose comes. The beavers make dams and rats come out the 
; 
frogs come out and they make lots of noise. The days get longer 
N 
and mosquitoes, flies and insects 
come out. People pick berries, 
— 
and they plant gardens. When we have physed we have it outside 
cause it is warm and its better that way. The rabbits shed fur and 
the rabbits and weasils turn brown, the birds comes and ducks, 
geese and seagulls come and find food for themselves. People go 
water skiing and some go for canoe rides then it is winter and 
people have to get ready cause they know it is going to be real 
cold. 
5 
SUMMER IN FORT RESOLUTION — May 26th 
I like summer in Fort Resolution because all the birds sing and 
people are going hunting. All the snow melts and the ice melts. 
All the rabbits turn brown and the weasels turn brown. also. All 
the dogs shed fur and people spring cleanup. beavers build dams 
: 
and kids get their bikes out. We never play physed in school most 
of the time we play outside. You don’t see any more hockey on T.V., 
The weather warms up. Days get longer, and lots of geese and ducks 
come back, Moose and a lot of wildlife. We don’t use dogs anymore ae 
for hauling water and The grass turns green and the leaves turn 
green also. lots of people plant gardens the schoolkids look forward 
for summer holidays. Bears come out from their long sleep. People 
‘ z= 
go to polette Creek for fish and some people go to little buffalo 
: 
They also go on picnics across the portage, and Mission Island. 
— 
Kids go for a ride to the site. people also go rat hunting. I like 
% 
swimming. Frogs Croak at night people go berry picking, Mosquitoes, — 
flies, & insects are out we have summer sports. Canoe rides, fishing. 
The barge comes in with things. I like summer and winter because in 
summer you can go swimming and in winter you can play hockey— — 
because thats my favorite sport in winter. 
2 
by James Larorque 
