moe 
Appalachian Mountain Club 
The west coast has the Sierra Club, the east coast has the Appalachian 
Mountain Club. A.M.C. is behind Sierra Club in style (book-wise) 
and effort (conservation-wise) but is rapidly trying to close the gap 
in those departments. A.M.C., however, has been around long enough 
(1878) to have compiled a large collection of available books on 
canoeing & climbing, plus* definitive guidebooks to all northeast 
mountains & ranges, their trails and level of difficulty, etc. 
A.M.C. 
5 Joy Street 
Boston, Mass. 
Steve Bradley 
Boston, Mass. 
This & That 
| was shocked to see on p. 38 of the July Catalog the U. of Indiana 
list of ‘Safe’ pesticides—flea collars and shell No Pest Strips! Shame! 
Flea Collars carry warnings that if your pet developes a rash or 
your child gets a rash from petting the animal “use should be dis- 
continued.” There is a reason for this warning: Flea collars are treat- 
ed with vapona which is what also permeates no-pest strips. Feder- 
ation of Homemakers puts out literature on how awful No Pest 
Strips are. Every test ever done (except, oddly enough, a test run 
by Shell scientists) proved that vapona left nasty residues on food, 
people, etc. 
About ‘‘Down on Singer” in July Catalog. Why buy a ‘’Touch ‘n 
Sew” anyway? We bought an 1881 treadle for $7.50 at Goodwill 
and with lots of work it works fine and looks super. If you're willing 
to provide the power, an old treadle is a dream—and you can figure 
that if it’s been around 90 years it'll last a few more. And Singer 
has parts for old machines—! even got a zipper foot for mine. 
Let me put in a plug for ““Sure-Jell.”” FREE in every package are 
recipes for turning any thing into jam or jelly. Foolproof. 
Oh! Very important. In Sept. edition of Organic Gardening, 
Euell Gibbons makes a really intelligent suggestion on a way to 
curb the Phosphate Pollution Problem. Phosphates are bad because 
they cause algae to proliferate like mad. We want plants on the 
land not in the rivers, so: Dump the phosphates in strip mines, on 
ravaged land, etc. where you want plants. Beautiful, 
Joyce & Richard Hamilton 
Copperas Cove, Texas 
Saving the Soil 
EVERY THING’S COMING UP ROSES IN THE STRIP 
MINE SPOIL BANKS: The evidence mounts that waste 
water and sludge from sewage treated in municipal sanita- 
tion plants belongs on the soil instead of in the rivers and 
streams. Penn State Prof. William Sopper is in his second 
year of experimenting with treated waste as a liquid 
fertilizer for the most unpromising of soil types—the earth 
scraped aside by strip mines to expose veins of coal or 
minerals. Last summer, Dr. Sopper dumped 250 tons of 
this “spoil bank” stuff into ten large wooden planters, each 
321’ by 4’ and holding 25 tons each. He planted grasses 
and tree seedlings in all boxes—but sprayed only eight of 
them regularly with sludge in varying proportions. By sum- 
mer’s end, sprayed trees and grasses had germinated and were 
were doing beautifully. The other two boxes? Blotto. ‘We 
had 100% mortality of all species of plants,’’ says Dr. 
S opper. “Nothing survived—no trees, no grasses, not even 
a weed.” 
The implications are wondrous. Throughout the strip-mining 
areas of such states as Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Kentucky 
and Tennessee, there exists an estimated 3 million acres of 
spoil banks. And two-thirds of them haven't been accep- 
tably revegetated. 
Environment Monthly, 7/70 
Whale Songs 
Attention to those of you with access to a good stereo. CRM 
Publications (Psychology Today) puts out a record of 
Songs of the Humpback Whale. Trust me that no one I’ve 
ever played it for has failed to be awed by it. These beasts 
have a fantastic range—you really need a good system to 
pick it all up. Sound travels much farther under water than 
~ through the air. This makes for some nearly unbelievable 
echo effects from the ocean floor. The “space” to the sound 
is truely awesome. 
The record comes with a really good book on whales and 
their music. Also a lot of information on how man is killing 
them off. The rather high price for this record is mostly a 
contribution to The New York Zoological Society Whale 
Fund which is devoted solely to the study and preservation 
of whales. 
| grant you that this whole thing sounds pretty strange. But 
its like listening to beings from another planet. Quite a trip 
and quite worth the money. 
Peace and Love, 
Eric Johnson 
Green Bay, Wisc. 
The Humpback Whale 
~ 
$9.95 
from 
CRM Publications 
Whales 
Box 131 
Del Mar, California 92014 
(New York and California residents add sales tax) 
Money, Honey 
Your comments about a depression further stimulated my thinking 
organ. Nearly every financial analyst who correctly called the 68-69- 
70 stock market slump and associated phenomena now predicts 
a major depression, coupled with a runaway inflation and eventual 
devaluation of our now worthless dollar. Variations on the theme 
are that an increasingly intense cycle of ‘‘regression/inflation”’ 
will precede the deluge. It is also universally agreed that the 
best hedge against said deluge is 1. savings account in a Swiss 
bank in Swiss francs (more than 80% gold backed, if the dollar is 
devalued 
you will earn much, much more than the 5-6% they 
pay On savings); 2. silver coins (for cash you can buy coins in $1000 
bags or less from Deane S. Jones, PO Box 8414, Reno, Nevada 
89507), preferably in dimes and quarters (circulated) for which 
you will have to pay a premium over face value because the silver 
content is worth more than the face price. 3. leveraged silver coins, 
if you have a bit more to invest, the Pacific Coin Exchange, 3520 
Long Beach Blvd., Long Beach, California 90807, will !oan you 
$1100 on each $1000 bag of coins and charge you 9% interest. This 
means you can leverage your own $1000 up to about $5000 and 
risk only the premium (about $250) and interest. 
This risk is almost 
nonexistent—except that it is not at all unthinkable that the USFeds 
will make ownership of silver illegal as they did gold in 1933. You‘d 
get your money back anyway. It is possible to buy silver, leveraged, 
through a Swiss Bank and Economic Research Counselors, Box 
368, San Diego, Ca., 92112 are specialists in helping you do this. 
If you buy silver coins as a hedge against the deluge (anyone will 
take a good lard silver coin) it will be best to store them in a safe 
depcsit com):any, NOT IN A BANK. Bank Holidays close the whole 
bani, and when silver is called in, goodbye! Or you can dig ahole 
in the ground. The lowest prediction for the price of silver (which 
sold for $1.78 and ounce at the close of the’market the end of July) 
is $3.00 by the end of 71. Many factors 
make other predictions 
much, much higher. 
The important thing is that WHEN (not IF) the public finally looses 
all confidence in its politicos and their funny paper money, dimes 
will spend. You must have pre 1965 coins or you will get funny 
copper/nickle tokens called money. 
At $1.80 an ounce your coins are worth 34% more than face value; 
at $3.00 an ounce they are worth 121% face value. 
!f you have a lot of bread, and want a more easily stored and stable 
piece of wealth you can buy British Sovereigns (pre 1933) from 
Jones. Today they will cost you about $10.50 each or about $44 
an ounce, which is an excellent buy. They could be used as a 
source of land purchase, etc., or to trade for more respectable silver. 
Many might think these little anxieties are the mark of old fashioned 
reactionary nuts; however, 
1. the government always degrades money 
2. politicians always lie 
3. people always accept silver and gold which can be 
tested easily for its integrity 
4. nobody has found a politician integrity test yet. 
Silver and gold have become good buys because the USFeds have 
given all theirs away and can no longer depress the market. 
Cheers, 
George von Hilsheimer, himself 
PS. Unless your crystal ball really works stay out of the silver com- 
modity futures market. Only about 1% of contracts are delivered on, 
which means the futures games is a legal way to play craps. 
Ah, the Army 
Ly 
| am presently serving in the United States Army (Signal 
r 
Corps) and would like to say that it (or rather certain 
ae 
schools it offers) is certainly relavant to independent edu- 
cation, your own personal feelings on militarialism notwith- 
standing. It of course offers fine schools in electronics, 
diving and living off the land. If it wasn’t for the war! 
_ 
would most probably apply for airborne training, officer 
— 
:
candidate school and Ranger school. However, things being = ‘
as they are in Vietnam, | can’t see myself being a platoon 
i 
leader in a Long Range Reconnaisance outfit. The thought 
| |
of it scares me shitless, to be perfectly frank. | know Mr. 
Brand or someone who writes reviews was an airborne ° 
ranger, no offense intended. 
As
2
| have the greatest respect for anyone who goes through just 
ranger school, | would look on someone with combat ex- 
perience as a Ranger with fascination and awe. 
Someone should probably review Vietnam, it is useful as 
_ 
a tool, since it is a medium where you can get stereo, and 
4 
camera equipment, jewelry, clothes, women and VD rather 
cheaply. 
: 
¥ 
John H, Kirck 
’ 
Glenholden, Pa. 
;
;
;
ae
Composter in the Sky 
My wife & | recently moved to Ben Lomond from Atlanta 
_ 
t 
& are unaccustomed to trash & garbage disposal problems, 
although we had some difficulties in Atlanta. We’ve been 
very interested in a composter, & my wife, Sandi, believes 
she’s found the best. It’s maintenance free, accepts any 
food scraps—except coffee grounds, which go to the ivy, is 
absolutely odor-free, rather handsome & extremely con- 
venient. It’s the California Blue Jay. It’s only drawback is 
the noise factor. My wife has tried lubricating with meat 
grease but that had no apparent effect. 
, 
y 
} 
¥ 
Really, Sandi says the blue jays eat anything—she puts 
—™ 
7 
all the garbage on an old redwood stump on the hill in 
Ante a 
back of our cabin & the jays have it cleaned up ina few 7
minutes. If anyone knows how to make them run silently, 
please let us know. 
ie 
ib 
Dave & Sandi 
ape 
nt 
+P 
Ben Lomond 
pease 
mh 
Shine With Soda 
If youre looking for a good alternative to bleaches, 
try 
ne 
a 
Arm & Hammer Washing Soda. We've even washed diapers | * 
in it, and they came out cleaner than with chlorine bleach. 
¥ 
ao 
a 
There was a sticker on the box implying that it renders det- 
; 
ergents ecologically sound, but when it says to use it with 
= 
soap, it means just that. Detergents are pollutants. 
_ 
sat 
Until Whenever, 
: 
‘ 
The Collective Consciousness 
— 
of Happy Hollow 
eS, 
| 
Menlo Park, Ca. 
<a 
Planet Earth 
ee) 
