Basic to the understanding of a traditional art is a know- —
ledge of the technical processes involved in creating the | 
objects. Therefore, while many cultural and economic 
— 2 
aspects of the chairmaking craft warrant analysis, it is — ;
necessary first to describe the way in which chairs are 
- made. The description that follows is based on six wale 
of observing and photographing at work Chester Sys 
a Kentucky chairmaker living in Perry County. Of course |
he is only one of many folk craftsmen in Appalachia 
who learned their craft from relatives and fellow artisans — 
without recourse to written instruction or formal train- 
ing. His methods and techniques are typical of this cen- _ 
turies-old tradition with the one exception that he does — 
a 
use a turning lathe. Cornett’s case is also of interest ree 
cause recent Sarional publicity has resulted in processu- -
al modifications to meet increased demands for his 
-_ ;
product. This in turn suggests problems and solutions of | :
a practical nature important to other traditional crafts- — = 
men 
4
Witha few simple tools a mountain craftsman like 
Cornett can make a “‘settin’ chair,” dining chair, or 
_ ee 
- rocker from the tree to the finished product; and 
; 
“taken’ it from the stump it takes one week to 
make 
a settin’ chair and a month to make a rocker.” He uses — 
an axe and coarse saw to fell the timber in the mount- 
ains, preferring to cut it in the fall of the year andon 
the ‘olden moon” when the wood is relatively dry and _ 
less subject to cracking during pigsacions 
He has no auto o-
mobile or work Datad so he must “pack in’ the logs on 
his back (Figure 1). 
2
;
y
The next step in making a chair is to quarter he log. 
The chairmaker drives an axe into the bolt to starta 
cut and then splits the log with a hickory maul and dog- 
wood glut, a method ised by many woodworkers 
because it preserves the natural strength of the wood — 
by cleaving along the grain (Fig. 2). He then roughly — 
= 
many slight cuts in the plank and gently slicing them 
off so that the hatchet blade does not gouge intothe 
wood. The slats are shaped in much the same way and ~ 
two or more slats may be riven from a single board, 
like handmade shingles, using the edge of the hatchet 
as a froe. He prepares dowelling for rounds and pegs 
from smaller pieces of wood. 
7. on 
and cuts the stile or flat face on the front surface of 
the back posts. The other pieces are also dressed. Then | 
: 
he marks off in pencil the places where holes will be 
i 
drilled in the posts. Measurements are with the hands, 
not a ruler: the width of two hands with thumbs over- 
lapping is twelve inches, the edge of his first to the 
quick of his extended thumb is six inches, and the wideh 
of one thumb is one inch. 
a 
» faa 
Slats and posts are then cooked in a tub of water to- 
make them pliable, twenty minutes in boiling water for — 
the slats and an hour for posts. After the slats are steam- 
ed he “breaks” them (Fig. 4), inserts them into a slat 2 
