Ham- 
| don't dig your land game thing. 
Why | would want to go out to 
some groovy land and rip it up by 
living there is beyond me. The 
Problems exist as mans present 
life style and the solutions must 
be within and competitive with 
that life style. In short | think 
you've 
got to subvert the cities 
by doing and showing in their con- 
text. Maybe it’s impossible but if 
you're out having a jolly time in 
the mountains/woods while the 
cities go to hell ultimately they 
take you with them. Isolation just 
doesn't work; now if you are try- 
ing to have a personal good time 
that is something else. 
Have been a radio amateur for about 
about 17 years (first general class 
then about 10 years ago extra 
class, also commercial first class, 
second class telegrapher). I’ve been 
active in the national traffic system 
and did some NCS work on TWN. 
Y our proposal as mentioned on 
p. 49 last WEC looks unworkable. 
There are thousands of freaks 
looking for old mimeo 
machines 
and other junk and transmitting 
their wants al! over the earth on 
short wave would only add to that 
garbage. | can see the possibility of 
a freaks conversational network or 
ahams 
for Social change thing or 
whatever but you have to face the 
fact that anyone doing anything 
controversial on the air will get 
interference from other disgruntled 
members of the fraternity (e.g. 
student information net of recent 
times). | went to Wash DC last Nov 
10-15 to set up communications 
with CB equipment for the march 
against death and rally and all the 
good Americans tried to stamp us 
out. Skilled operators can get thru 
interference especially on CW but 
it is a tedious process (though the 
challenge is fun). There may be 
communes that would benefit 
by having a radio communications 
outfit 
but on the other hand that 
is probably one of the things they 
are trying to get away from. 
As an amateur I’m willing to help 
people get licenses and with consi- 
deration of what is practical; how- 
ever | think it is important to keep 
the realities straight. Rather than 
doing a serious uptight operation 
| think it would go better as an 
informal humanistic endeavor. In’ 
my travels I've only met (that | 
know of) one freak who is an 
amateur but there seem to be a 
few around. 
(ARRL is always printing request 
for special ham groups; I've consid- 
ered asking for other guys/gals who 
have committed civil disobedience/ 
gone to jail, delivered their babies 
at home, belong to the War. Resis- 
ters League, belong the the Ameri- 
can Kitefliers Association—by the 
way have you reviewed them? — 
etc.;;; maybe instead you could 
put in a request forhams 
who 
are freaks!) 
Stay clear of the wouff hong, 
Peace, resist, 
John K. Green 
Box 1038 
Boulder, Colorado, 80302 
Radical Software 
We get letters—saying how encouraging, enspiriting, possi- 
bility-expanding the Whole Earth Catalog is—embarrassing 
amount of gratitude in these letters. Well, it’s how | feel 
about Radical Softwear; A double handful of fast young 
heads have entered do-it-yourself TV and gotten acquainted 
with each other, and now started a tabloid of mutual read- 
out, aiding each other’s scuffle for equipment, audience, 
comprehension, concepts, values. They sense power (95% 
of U.S. homes have TV) and unexplored territory (broad- 
cast TV still scarcely seems to know what it is) and the hard 
cider of dwelling on evolution’s imploding edge (maybe. 
lalways maybe] .) In a way it’s about time: we have head 
radio, head records, head books, magazines, newspapers, 
head movies; very little head TV. [Beware beware of con- 
trolling all your inputs lest ye become your own caricature.] 
These are TV heads, getting restless, with a fine access pub- 
lication. | hope it stays solvent and publishing. High content 
goods. 
—SB 
Radical Software 
$1 .00: for summer issue. 
(Fall issue and future 
prices being planned.) 
from: 
Raindance Corp. 
51 Fifth Ave., Room 110 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
The Crush of Television 
“There are 60 million homes in the United States and over 95 per- 
cent of them are equipped with a television set. (More than 25 per- 
° 
cent have two or more sets.) In the average home the television is 
turned on some five hours forty-five minutes a day. The average 
male viewer, between his second and sixty-fifth year, will watch 
television for over 3000 entire days—roughly nine full years of his 
life. During the average weekday winter evening nearly half of the 
American people are to be found silently seated with fixed gaze 
upon a phosphorescent screen.” 
“Water systems engineers must build city water supply systems 
to accommodate the drop in water pressure occasioned by the toilet- 
flushing during television commercials. 
GUNS, KNIVES OR VIDEOTAPE * works this way. Two people, 
each with a portable pack and camera, face off fifteen feet apart. 
At a given signal they start ‘‘shooting’’ each other. Both roll tape 
continuously for five minutes. Then both tapes are played back 
simultaneously on two monitors set up side by side. The area 
should be large enough so that Participants can move around. Var- 
iations are possible. Doubling up in teams of two, doing it in a mir- 
rored room, setting up a third camera on a stationary tripod to 
catch the whole duel for playback with the Participant's tapes. 
“Executed in Pontiac, Michigan 
Vic and | recorded a conversation between us using full body shots 
on a split screen. We were seated facing each other. A week later we 
played the tape back using slow motion and no sound. We both sat 
facing the screen imitating the kinetics of the other on the screen 
and verbalizing how we felt from going through those motions, It 
was extraordinary. Holding my head and rocking back and forth in 
imitation of Vic. “Yeah, I'm listening to what you're saying, Ryan, 
but I’m really getting ready to strike back.”’ Following a diminutive 
hand gesture ‘‘Let me make it nice and small, Ryan, so that you can 
understand it,"’ Vic was scoring on me in a similar way and we 
were laughing our heads off. What was even more extraordinary was 
whens! woke up the next morning, | felt like | was wearing his body. 
That | had it on. | called up Vic and started telling him how | felt 
about the relation between his/my stomach and shoulders, stomach 
and head, torso and legs, etc. etc. Each time Vic confirmed | was 
right on. For the next few weeks! found | could recall this sense of 
his body when | wanted. 
by PAUL RYAN April 11, 1970 
rs | 
-Com 
In the March $1 Catalog you 
~ 
were wondering about how to 
fit electronics into your catalog 
— 
better. It seems to me that 
: 
electronics equipment is relevant 
to the very important business 
of communicating with one an- 
other. Radios, transceivers, hy- 
— 
drophones, ultrasonic transla- 
tors, and tape recorders cer- 
tainly are significant tools. 
However one of the most, 
important communication tools, 
(in my opinion) is a shortwave 
receiver. Listening is the 
beginning of all communication. 
With even the humblest short- 
wave receivers one can tune in 
many different nations all around 
the globe. Americans have 
neglected shortwave radio but 
the rest of the world (mainly 
other governments) is broad- 
Casting it’s opinions, viewpoints, 
philosophies, music, literature 
and drama for anyone to exam- 
ine. It is free to anyone with a 
shortwave radio. 
The simplest way to start 
listening is to turn on any 
shortwave-ready radio you pave. 
Reception is better if you attach a 
a long antenna and a good 
ground. Reception is also better 
after dark. You may have a 
good shortwave receiver in your 
attic or 
a$5 to $25 Salvation 
Army Store radio will serve. 
Almost anything made after 
1932 is liable to work well. Of 
course if you have more money a 
store-bought receiver or kit 
would be a fine tool. | hope 
some of your correspondents 
will be reviewing receivers 
and listening guides. 
Besides ham radio it seems to 
me that souls interested in . 
underground (and aboveground). 
radio and tv ought to check 
' the radio & tv trade journals for 
the names of brokers in used 
broadcast equipment. With 
the introduction of color tv, 
multiplex fm and transistors a 
lot of good equipment has 
been obsoleted. Presently 
much of this stuff is sold to 
less affluent parties overseas. 
Also since many police and fire 
departments have changed from 
broadcasting on 1700 ke. (which 
is just On one edge of the 
broadcast band) to vhf and uhf 
bands I'd bet that there is _ 
some modest power gear on 
the market 
that would be fine 
for am broadcasting with merely 
a new crystal (like $10 anda 
tune up. 
! have been reading the Whole 
Earth Catalog to a blind (freak) 
friend of mine. He digs it. He 
is on his way to California and 
I've given him your address. He 
would like to talk with you 
about how the Whole Earth 
Catalog idea might be made 
more useful and relevant to the 
small (but growing) blind 
freak community. Also, his 
visit might catalyze us—the 
sighted ones towards a more 
effective consciousness of all 
our brothers who have 
been 
dealt unique sensory bags Jim 
~ 
is his name. 
| just read the above paragraph 
to Jim and he says: No Lee, | 
want to de-emphasize the differ- 
ences. Period. 
Lee McKusick 
Chimayo, N.M. 
Sz 
