Mining on Kirk’s Creek, cont’d from p. 8 
We finished building the tipple. We used the big dead chest- 
nut trees for the structure, and lined the inside of the tipple 
with two-by-eights. We used big spike nails to tie the tipple 
together. 
The tipple set out ina 
little field. It was 40 feet higher: 
than the drift mouth of the coal mine. To overcome gra- 
vity we built a trestle from the coal tipple back to ground 
level of the mountain, and laid steel track down the trestle. 
Then we graded a tram road down the mountain to the 
drift mouth of the mine. We laid steel track down the in- 
cline to the drift mouth of the coal mine. 
We walked back up the mountain to the top of the grade, 
installed a hoist, powered by a 1927 Chevrolet engine. 
The drive shaft was attached to the hoist. We hooked a 
steelcable to the mining car, put the old Chevrolet engine 
in low gear, and give her the gas. The mining car climbed 
the incline. When the mining car reached the top, we shut 
off the gas of the engine. The car switched automatically 
and headed for the tipple. We had a brake on the drum, just 
hold the brake with your foot and let the car run easy. The 
mining car had a big hook on the front gate. This hook con- 
tacted a chain stretched out across the tipple. The mining 
car had a swing gate in the front of the car. At the end of 
the trestle on the tipple head there was a set of tipple 
horns. This was a one-piece affair, about nine feet long 
with horns on the end, 42 inches apart, like a billy goat's. 
The car drifted down the trestle and hit the tipple horns 
setting on the tipple head and dumped the coal out onto 
the tipple screens. The screens separated the block coal 
from the egg. Then we dropped the gear shift into second 
gear and pulled the car back off the trestle and dropped 
the car down the incline to the drift mouth, empty and 
ready to be taken back inside and filled again. 
Once we got the shaft dug and the tipple built, we were 
ready to run coal. We bought an old truck, 9 new mining 
cars and seven ponies to power the mining cars. The ponies 
_ 
were small enough to walk into the mine and pull out a 
car full of coal. We used the ponies in string teams, like the 
Eskimoes use the dogs. Our ponies were smart as dogs. 
Most of the time we used two ponies to the team, a lead 
pony and a wheel pony. The lead pony was the quarterback. 
He was lean, calm and smart. The wheel pony was built 
stocky, wild, strong, and a little crazy. The mining car was 
~on his heels at all times. Sometimes 
we used three ponies 
in string teams. This was the swing pony in the middle. He 
was usually the lazy pony. 
2 
The first thing a pony driver did in the morning was harness 
the pony teams and blindfold the lead pony’s right eye. 
This was a soft cloth covering the pony’s eye. The pony 
driver hooked his pony to the mining car and travelled into 
the mine. At the first switch in the mine he stopped and 
removed the blind from the pony’s eye. When they started 
to return to the outside he would reinstate the blindfold. 
We were driving out of Kirk’s Creek one evening. We saw a 
gang of men installing power lines up Kirk’s Creek. The 
REA soon reached our coal mine. This changed many 
things. We had electricity. We installed electric fans in the 
airshaft, electric drills, booster fans, electric hoists and 
pumps. We ordered new trucks, built another tipple and 
dug a new opening in the seam of coal. We leased a spur 
_ track from the railroad and built loading docks to load our 
coal in the gondolas. We sold coal to trucks and shipped 
coal by rail. We successfully ran our coal business from 
1945 until 1953, when the coal business 
went down all 
over the mountains. 
g 
Holly Musick 
Pioneer 
Superstitions 
OLD-TIMEY 
SIGNS AND SAYINGS 
bw 
FERNE SHELTON 
Pioneer Superstitions 
HUTCRAF 
4 
High Point, N.C. 27262 
Aj SONS 
IDEAS ABOUT HEALTH 
To stop “night sweats” — set a pan of water under the bed. 
(Improvement begins after the third night.) 
To relieve cramps in legs and/or cure bunions — turn the sufferer’s shoes 
upside down and place under the bed. 
To make childbirth easier — 1. Raspberry leaf tea was taken during 
pregnancy, 2. An axe or knife was laid under the bed. 
To heal cuts faster — put medicine on the knife, too. 
Unlucky to sleep often in the moonlight. (Insanity results.) 
PREDICTING WEATHER BY SPECIAL DAYS 
Rain on MONDAY means several rainy days that week. 
If the sun sets clear on TUESDAY, expect rain before Friday. 
Rain on the FIRST DAY OF THE MONTH, most of month will be wet. 
Rain on the first SUNDAY of.a month means rain on the three 
following Sundays. 
If dandelions bloom in April, expect a hot, wet July. 
If March is dry, expect plenty of rain later in season. 
If no rain on JULY 2nd, no hard rain for 6 weeks afterward. 
If cold before 
NOVEMBER 15th, expect a mild winter to follow. 
If the sun sets behind clouds on Thursday, rains before Saturday. 
If the frogs “holler” early in a warm MARCH, they will “freeze back” 
three times before Spring really comes. 
If the last FRIDAY AND SATURDAY of a month have good weather, 
the month to come will be nice. (If bad, expect a bad month.) 
If there is bad weather on EASTER SUNDAY, the 7 Sundays following 
will also bring rain. 
Every day over 100 degrees in JULY means one below zero during the 
month of January to come. 
FAITH AND POWER HEALERS 
Many people were believed to possess a supernatural “gift” for 
curing certain ailments, by using charms, prayers and magic of various 
sorts. (Mothers kiss a child’s hurt to “make it well.”) 
TAKING FIRE OUT OF BURNS 
— One says she blows on the burn and 
mutters “Go out fire, come in frost.” (Various other ways.) 
STOPPING BLOOD — One “who has the power’ says he calls the person 
by name, walks toward the sunrise and repeats the Sixth Verse, 
Sixteenth Chapter of Ezekiel (or reads it from the Bible.) 
REMOVING WARTS — (Many different ways.) The conjurer rubs the 
wart with a penny and gives it to the boy. As soon as the penny is 
spent, the wart goes away. 
CURING A BABY’S “THRASH” 
— A person who never saw his father 
(due to death or otherwise) may blow into the baby’s mouth three 
times and cure the condition. 
LUCKY CHARMS 
(Worn as “pocket pieces” or as a necklace. Supposed to protect the 
wearer against ill health, bad luck, and other disasters.) 
For RHEUMATISM ... 
Hickory nut; Horse Chestnut; Buckeye; Potato; Copper wire around 
arm or leg; Wide leather belt. 
For NOSE BLEED 
.. 
. Red glass beads; a whole nutmeg. 
For “FITS” 
. 
. 
. Peony seeds (tied in a bag around neck); Tooth. 
For LUNGS 
. 
. 
. Old penny (around neck); Asafoetida. 
For CROUP 
. 
. 
. A whole nutmeg; Black silk tie around neck. 
For COLDS . . 
. Wool string around neck; Red onion tied to bed. 
For STOMACH CRAMBS . 
. 
. 
Red string tied around the abdomen. 
...A “MAD STONE” was used to remove infection. (Indian) 
UNCLE JOHN SAYS: “Watch out foraman’... 
.. If his ears grow too close to the top of his head. 
.. If his beard is a different color from his hair. 
.. If he jingles money in his pocket while trading. 
... [fhe does not make friends with a dog. 
.. If he looks hard into his cup before he drinks. (Thief) 
. 
.If he has very small ears, or his fingers lay close. (Stingy) 
IT IS A SIGN OF RAIN... 
If cream in coffee collects at the top edges of a cup.. 
If dogs suddenly begin to eat grass. 
If cats sneeze or lick their fur backwards. 
If field mice run wildly in the open areas. 
If a pig straightens the “curl” in his tail. 
If cattle refuse to drink water in dry weather. 
If sheep turn their backs to the wind. (Heavy rain.) 
If hens spread and ruffle their tail feathers. 
If a rooster crows at night. (Rain before morning.) 
If chickens go to roost earlier than usual. 
If robins sing loud near the house. 
