Diana’s Rap 
I successfully avoided dealing with the whole women’s 
lib question for months. Faced with the necessity of 
working on these pages, | sat m yself down and read Time’s 
spread, and Life’s and a bunch of other stuff. And | came 
to realize why I'd been avoiding it. I’ve been relating to 
all kinds of far-out movements for years, but this time, | 
couldn't identify. 
Sympathize, emphathize, yes, but the 
evening’s reading left me feeling terribly sad and alienated 
from a scene that somehow should be my scene too. 
Nearly all the literature refers to the rare exception—the 
woman who has somehow “overcome” all these cultural 
patterns and makes her own decisions, leads her own life, 
does her own thing. Well, | don’t at all enjoy feeling like 
an “exception”, and | was never aware of overcoming 
great obstacles—male or otherwise. | ‘ve simply been 
leading my life and making my choices and sort of 
assuming everyone else was too. | have been: —a secretary, 
—a lab technician, —a clinical social worker, —an encounter 
group leader, —a wife (for one year), 
—a student (for six 
years), —a lover (-ess?), —a political activist, —a probation 
officer, —an editor (tress?), —paid less, always, thanmy 
male counterparts. | haven't ever been: —pregnant, 
—married for ten years, —a mother, —a full-time housewife, 
or lots of other things which | realize form some of the 
experience from which 
women’s lib springs. | ‘Il be 30 
next year. 
| have also never felt completely satisfied and fulfilled as 
a woman and as a human being. Neither has anyone else 
| know, and that includes men. | do remember once a 
woman | was working with confronting our male co- 
workers with a very passionate plea, ““You see me as a 
woman, as a mother, as a little girl, as a this, as a that—| 
wish you’d remember I’m a HUMAN BEING!”. It blew 
my mind, and | jumped in with my, “1 feel just the 
opposite—you see me as a competent, talented, strong, 
and you forget |‘M A WOMAN”. Whereupon | burst into 
tears, having meant, of course, “I’m JUST a woman; | 
shouldn't HAVE to be as strong as you are; | need also 
to feel helpless, dependent, and weak sometimes”. 
Well. 
From Phyllis 
Dear Pam/Smith and people, 
1’m a woman. | do art things. | don’t know 
a damn thing about. 
women or a damn thing about art, but 
| do know about myself. sometimes. Anyway, here’s some 
miscellaneous stuff written during the last few years, some 
of which may be relevant to women, art, and women-as- 
artists or would-be artists. Besides getting into snits and 
writing a whole lot of hostile crap to people, mostly men, | 
also paint. 
“The numerous conflicting duties of 
awhole women... 
have made every private creative minute a source of 
guilt.” Yeah! If a man creates, if he writes or paints or 
sculpts and if he’s serious about it, then he is usually 
considered to be ‘‘an artist,” If he’s unable to make a living 
by practicing his art, then this is taken as further verification 
of his status as a ‘‘true artist.’” If a woman creates, if she 
writes or paints or sculpts and if she’s serious about it, 
she’s almost never considered to be “an artist.’’ She has 
“a hobby.” If she’s married, then this hobby: is 
condescendingly tolerated. ‘’It’s nice that you have 
something to keep you busy,” or ‘It’s good to keep your 
mind occupied with an outside interest.’’ If she is unmar- 
ried and cannot make her living by practicing her art, then 
she is considered to be a welfare chiseler, an immoral bitch, 
irresponsible, and lazy. phooey. to hell with them. | 
don’t give a damn what they think anyway, but i wish they’d 
stop thinking it. 
| do think that creative men are faced in our society by many 
of the same problems and barriers facing creative women. 
But the difference is that society in general and the 
individuals involved, are aware of these societally imposed 
restrictions and constraints so far as they apply to men, 
whereas this awareness so far as limitations/barriers applied 
to women is often lacking and the real problems are most 
often perceived, even by the women themselves, as personal/ 
psychological ones rather than social/political ones. The 
private attempt to cope with 
a social/political problem as 
if it were a personal/psychological one is enormously energy- 
draining; it can exhaust one emotionally, intellectually, 
psychologically, 
and spiritually. An emotionally, intellec- 
tually, psychologically, and spiritually exhausted person 
can’t be a very good artist. Maybe that’s why there are few 
good women artists. 
Some really good books on the subject of art/people (let's 
be flighty and include women in here as people) are: The 
Dehumanization of Art by Ortega y Gasset; The Necessity 
of Art: A Marxist Approach, by Ernst Fischer; and Otto 
Rank’s things on Art & Artists, especially ‘The artist’s 
fight with Art.” 
22 
power to the left out people 
(Pallas power), 
phyllis lanham 
saratoga, california 
| dig women’s lib very much and appreciate a lot of what 
it’s all about, and I find myself being affected by some 
of the thinking that’s going on. | don’t dig large parts of 
it—having spent a lot more of my life in the conventional 
“men’s world” than in the conventional “women’s 
world” (i.e. at home), | suspect a 
lot of women of 
over-romanticizing ‘the world out there”. Thousands of 
men’s jobs are at least as boring, tedious, repetitive, non- 
creative, and unsatisfying as housework and diapers. 
Nearly always there’s less opportunity for physical 
movement during the day, for doing different things on 
different days, for listening to music while you work, for 
taking a nap, or doing a dance—in the “men’s world”. | have 
longed —get this— for the freedom of being able to 
regulate and choose my own schedule to some extent. For 
possibly having sometimes four hours to prepare a feast, 
when the mood strikes, instead of the hungry, post- working 
day quick supper. | have certainly over-roman ticized the 
life I’ve never led —husband that will take care of me 
and deal with all that “business”, babies, etc. The current 
sweep of women’s lib inclines me a /ot less toward these 
indulgences, and that’s probably what I most appreciate. 
That and the theme that “this is bigger than the bot’n us” 
—that men suffer from their cultural roles at least as 
much as women do, and that the real problem lies deeper 
—lies, in both cases in a society and family structure which 
makes it very difficult for anyone to realize his full poten- 
tial, or even any very close approximation. 
On one level, | simply lucked out. With three sisters and 
no brothers and a father who is no sort of male chauvinist, 
/ always felt there was plenty of room for me to define 
my own role, without a whole hell of a 
lot of respect for 
convention. | live in a commune now, with 5 men and 5 
women, and we all take turns cooking. The women tend 
to clean up more, but the men always take out the 
garbage & take 
care of the yard. Various of us work at 
various times, and perhaps our strongest implicit goal is 
for everyone to be able to live the way they most want 
to, within our “family structure”, and within the recog- 
nition that everyone has to do their share of the chores. 
The sisterhood between the 5 women its the strongest 
These are a few samples of Phyllis’ “miscellaneous stuff.” 
For years | thought of black people in our society: Why do they 
stay behind those bars that whites have built around them? Why do 
they tolerate it? Why don’t they fight back and kill if necessary to 
preserve their humanity? | didn’t become aware until the last couple 
of years that, as a woman, | had had bars constructed for me too. 
A prison with gold bars is just as confining as any other. | used to 
think that white men were victims of the system that has us all 
enslaved—that we were all victims, victim and victimizer equally; 
all trapped within the maze. But that’s not true. Some of us have 
a wider range of choices than others, and white males have the 
widest range of ‘all—they have the most alternatives to choose from. 
And the choices they make indicate that most are not so much 
victims as willng accomplices in the perpetuation of this system. 
When men attempt to deny the political reality of problems by 
labelling them personal or psychological, when those in a position 
to do so— i.e., doctors, psychiatrists, politicians, lawyers—do not 
attempt to make injustices relevant to society, in whatever spectrum 
of society their profession qualifies them to exert their influence— 
when they mouth their concern for social justice and their abhorence 
of the system at the same time that they embrace politics as the 
art of the possible and define possible in terms of the past—then 
they are more victimizers than victims. They are being phony and 
they are being cowardly. No amount of conscience—alleviating 
charging into the arena of blatant psychedelic-glowing injustice on 
a noble white steed is going to change the phoniness or hide the 
cowardice. 
Have you heard of the law of connunctio oppositorum? It’s a sort 
of philosophical assertion of the sine qua non quality of life’s apparent 
contradictions and is, like alot of other laws, irrelevant. It states: 
All things for their being or continuance require their opposites— 
i.e., no joy without sorrow, no good without evil, no tranquillity 
without turmoil and—who knows? maybe no feminine bitchiness 
without masculine cowardice. Perhaps. 
BSB 
Things | do not like: 
marriages 
responsibilities 
doing somebody else’s thing 
lines of demarcation 
- 
- 
compulsions (neurotic and otherwise) 
Orientations i am allergic to because of succumbing-susceptibility 
order (anyone elses) 
security (emotional and other) 
never-rock-the-boatness 
status quo obsequiousness 
irresponsibility 
emotional hedonism i.e., chronic 
absence of pain is the highest of all highs. 
RESSB 
“i know a woman who decided to let the hair grow 
on her legs and it turned out her’s were hairier than 
her husbands.” 
“what did she do then?” 
“4 don’t know, they got a divorce.” 
and most profound I’ve ever experienced—I think the 
same is probably true of the brotherhood of the men. | 
can’t deny that we've all been affected by our cultural 
conditioning. Perhaps all | really want to say is that 
_ 
changes are being made, right here in river city; sympathet- 
ic male ears are available—my god, the last thing our ; 
men want is a bunch of submissive drudges around the 
house. Which isn’t to say they aren’t capable of feeling 
threatened by us. | experienced very peculiar feelings — 
myself when | walked into the kitchen and saw one of 
my 
“brothers” cleaning out the refrigerator, and whis- 
tling like a lark, grinning to himself, muttering and 
wondering what had got into him, and really enjoying 
himself thoroughly. What | love most about the commune 
is that | feel like | can be whoever | want to be—I can 
wait on the men 
(and the women, too, for that matter) 
and take great pleasure in it, and | can_ 
also argue with 
them, be hostile, be loving, be submissive, be rebellious, 
do someone else’s thing, do my own thing, participate in 
our communal vision, etc. Just like a family should be. 
See, the thing is, | suspect that lots women could do 
all these those things with their families too, if only they 
would. Your freedom is often, or largely, as much as you 
have the courage to grab for yourself. Which is to say, 
mine has been. And which isn’t to say | can always do 
any, much less all, of the above. | figure | have a pretty 
tolerant environment, though, and it’s my responsibility 
to get it on for myself. With a lot of help frommy 
friends. Ok. 
R: What molecule? That's just my little finger. 
F: | know an insult when i feel one poking me in the ribs. What 
do you think | am, an ass? 
R: Well. ..-ah,. 7... Mmmmmmmyeah 
F; Sex fiend! Take that! 
R: (stiff-upper-lipperly) Thanks, | needed that. 
Much later: 
R: Will you marry me? 
F: (accusingly) You want to destroy our relationship! 
R: What relationship? 
F: Go to hell you fucked-up bastard you need a psychiatrist you 
R: It's normal for a masochist. 
from rgw 
speaking of tools, it's about time women started using 
their bodies as tools instead of excuses and liabilities. 
speaking of access to tools, read Kit Leder’s words and 
remember that tools aren’t so complicated that intelligence 
can’t figure out how to work them. in my own experience 
struggling in woodshops and metalshops shaping my 
forms out of tree trunks and various joints, i have found 
that using leverage often makes the impossible possible. 
on the subject of _motherhood, let it be known that 
being a mother has nothing to do with being a fulfilled 
female. 
stopped relying on men for their sexual definition. 
Dialogue: 
: Will you please stop pulling the Noosphere, and get your 
: Masochist?? You call stinking up the whole house when you're 
: | do if it’s stinking up the whole house of a pyromaniac with 
: Oh go to hell. The trouble is we need a sadist in this scene— 
: Maybe we should put an ad in the Barb.. 
.!? 
a 
—Diana 
molecule out of my ribs! 
are all putrid and yellow a bit brown around the edges” 
> 
too and no one in his right mind likes brown and yellow 
except avery earthy person which you certainly arent. If you 
see everything as an accusation then you need to make some 
sort of financial arrangement with a shrink toute de suite: discuss 
canyon-peak, left-right, margin-freestyle, aloneness-togetherness, 
scRuthing-repression, indulgence-asceticism, etcetcetcetc., and 
furthermore, be sure to ask him if letting a lot of hostile farts 
is normal. 
as 
going to leave masochistic? 
flammable gasses. 
two masochists just don’t make it together. 
BESS 
on the idea of sex and tools, it is time women 
—robin gay wakeland- 
