On page 42 of the July catalog (Fun and Games) Frank Raasch talks about a coupled 
EXPLANATION: 
Alot of us are having babies and the need for a crib comes 
up. The old American design with its maple sides and back- 
and-forth rockers reminded us of a coffin. So we made one 
that could rock in all directions, with windows. We've 
enclosed some pictures. 
The sides are of birch bark sewn to a wire frame (1 inch 
fencing wire) attached to a % inch thick piece of plywood 
cut in an oval. The wire is stretched around the frame and 
the four supports, stapled into place. Then the places 
for the windows are cut out with tinsnips (any shape 
window can be made using either plexiglas or other trans- 
parent window material (colors might be nice). We trimmed 
the windows and other places with soft leather glued with 
cement glue. 
The universal bottom is a snow saucer covered with leather. 
It enables the baby to rock without anybody around. Watch 
it though, as they grow into the third or fourth month. In 
their sleep they have a tendency to crash (scrunched up at 
one down-tilting end). Unless the baby’s an unmoving sleeper 
it’s best to keep the saucer detachable for a solid sound 
sleep. 
- 
pendulum device he calls a harmonograph. | enclose a design for a two pendulum drawing as 
engine of this type. The design is not original with me. It’s easy to build (took me about 4 at 
hours) and makes interesting drawings — | enclose a few | made. 
The engine consists of two pendulums—one is formed by the table 7 with its associated 
— 
weights W/7, W2, W3, and W4 suspended from P7 and P2 with strings S7; the second is 
formed by weight W5 suspended from the bottom of table T with string S2. A ball point — 
pen is held in a vertical stationary position by arm A. PenB andarmA 
are rigidly held 
- 
together. They are permitted to move vertically by hinge H, but prevented from moving 
from side to side or back and forth by stationary base 
: 
To use the engine the table is deflected along X-X and weight W5 along Y-Y with the 
pen raised above a piece of paper on the table. The table and W5 are released, and the 
~ 
pen lowered carefully onto the paper. The pattern produced will be a function of distances 
D7 and D2, the amount of the deflections and the instantaneous release angles and times. 
CONSTRUCTION DETAILS: 
The table | used was a 15” x 20” piece of %” plywood. Weights W/7-W/4 weighed about 
3% pounds each, and W5 weighed 2% pounds. D7 and D2 are 3’ and 1’ respectively, but 
should be variable. Friction is an enemy of good performance. Some amount of pen-paper 
friction cannot be avoided, but may have to be reduced by counterbalancing arm A. 
Friction at pivot points P7 and P2 should be reduced as much as possible. Running the 
strings S7 and S2 through screw eyes is OK, but better results can be gotten by usinga 
short section of firmly clamped nylon monofilament (get it from a fishing tackle store) 
and confining all the bending to it. 1 used a1” piece of polypropylene piano hinge 
(Edmund Scientific) for H; a strip of celluloid or mylar clamped at both ends would do 
as well. In my version armA_ 
is 2%" long and base Fis a camera tripod. 
David Caulkins 
Los Angeles, Ca. 
- 
That’s about all. The plans are here, with hopes that such 
a crib gives a child a chance to control and make their 
own universe, and see it as well. 
The all of us 
Richard and Carol and Annalisa 
and Hobbit 
!
after Sept. 1, 1970: 
ue 
c/o New Experimental College 
Skyum P.R. H¢rdum Denmark 
P.S. The mattress is water-proof covered polystyrine made 
to fit into the shape of the crib. We had one made at a 
$ 
mattress factory for $8 but it could be made as well as the 
crib. On the outside the rough white of the birch, on the 
inside, the inside of the bark for its smoothness. Best time 
to cut the bark is in the winter, or after a rain when the 
tree gives it up more easily. Don’t take more than the top 
most layers, though, about the thickness of heavy paper. 
Be kind to the tree that’s giving up something for your baby. 
