hee 
, 
ens 
Canadian Wood-Frame House Construction 
Free 
From: 
Central Mortgage & Housing Corp. 
Ottawa, Ont. 
i 
Explains in detail how a wood-frame house is put 
together from the location and excavation of the 
planned site, to building and final finish work, 
step-by-step. Fully illustrated; you'll have that 
house up in no time. 
The Preservative Treatment of Wood 
The Seasoning of Lumber 
The Structure of Wood 
$.35 each 
From: 
Queen’s Printer 
Daly Bldg., commer Mackenzie-Rideau 
Ottawa, Ont. 
The Wilderness Cabin 
Calvin Rustrum 
1961; 169 pp. 
$7.25 postpaid 
Boy Scout Merit Badge Series 
Canadian Whole Earth Almanac 
Canadian Whole Earth Almanac /s out, 
and it looks good. The fall Catalog’s 
gonna review it. In the meantime, you 
can get it from: 
The Canadian Whole Earth Almanac 
341 Bloor Street W. Room 208 
Toronto 181, Ontario 
I would like to recommend the Boy Scout merit badge 
pamphlet series (all but the Cooking book which is 
: 
obviously worthless). They are only 45 cents and present 
a thorough introduction to a wide range of subjects of 
presumable interest to boys. These inckude Animal 
Industry, Architecture, Astronomy, Beef Production, 
From: 
Collier Macmillan Canada Ltd. 
539 Collier-Macmillan Drive 
Galt, Ont. 
An almost complete book (details are not exten- 
single copy $3 
year subscription $9 (4 issues) 
sive, but you can figure them out) on site selection, 
use of tools, and building of a log cabin, with dia- 
grammed instructions. It’s a way to erect a shelter 
Beekeeping, Bird Study, Botany, Camping, Canoeing, 
Cooking, Corn Farming, Dairying, Farm Management, 
First Aid, Fishing, Fruit and Nut Growing, Gardening, 
in the woods with very few tools and know-how. 
—$—$$—$___——$+ 
Human Biocomputer 
BACK IN PRINT. After a year of absence, this landmark 
paper is back at a lower price (formerly $7.95, now $1.50). 
John Lilly has worked for a long time with sensory depri- 
vation, pursuing the notion that relieving the computer 
(mind) of many of its environmental-survival chores frees it 
to attend more fully to self-investigation. Of late he’s added 
LSD to the process and has found ways to flourish and dis- 
cover within this doubly floating condition. 
The paper HUMAN BIOCOMPUTER is the best internal 
guidebook I’ve seen—far more practical and generalized 
than transcendent Eastern writings or wish ful Underground 
notes. Though it’s not the whole story by any means, it 
makes an open start on fresh language and powerful tech- 
nique for the frontier. 
An additional advantage the paper 
offers is the opportunity 
to learn and explore computers without requiring money 
or administrative approval. You inherited and grew every- 
thing you need, and it’s free. 
(Suggested by Ralph Metzner) 
The major problems of the research of interest to the author center 
on the erasability, modifiability, and creatibility of programs. In 
other words, | am interested in the processes of 
finding metapro- 
grams (and methods and substances) which control, change, and 
create the besic metaprograms of the human computer. It is not 
known whether one can really erase any program. 
| believe that by using certain methods and means some of which 
are presented in this work that truly talented and dedicated individ- 
uals can forge, find, and devise new ways of looking at our minds, 
- 
ways which are truly scientific, intellectually economical, and inter- 
actively creative. Consider for example, the case of the fictitious 
individual created by the group of mathematicians masquerading 
under the name of “Dr. Nicholas Bourbaki.”’ 
This group of mathematicians in order to create a mathematics or 
sets of mathematics beyond the capacity of any one individual, 
- held meetings three times a year and exchanged ideas, then went 
off and worked separately. The resulting papers were published 
under a pseudonym because the products of this work were felt to 
be a group result beyond any one individual’s contribution. 
In the maximally attenuated environment (92 to 95 degrees F. iso- 
thermal skin, saltwater suspension, zero light levels, near-zero sou nd 
levels, without clothes, without wall or floor contacts, in solitude 
in remote 
isolation, for several hours), the addition of LSD-25 
allows one to see that all the previous experiences with “outside 
screens’’ are evasions of deeper penetration of self (and ‘hence are 
“screens” in the sense of ‘blocking the view behind,’ as well as ‘re- 
ceiving the projected images’). 
ae 
Programming and Metaprogramming 
in the Human Biocomputer— 
Theory and Experiments 
John C, Lilly, M.D. 
1967, 1970; 112 pp. 
$1 50 postpaid 
from 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
558 Santa Cruz Avenue 
Menlo Park, Ca. 94025 
copies for resale from 
BOOK PEOPLE 
2010 Seventh Street 
Berkeley, Ca. 94710 
PROGRAMMING AND 
51) 
METAPROGRAMMING 
$15 
IN Et he 
HUMAN 
BIOCOMPUTER 
THEORY 
\ND ENPERIMIEN 
ES. 
Bs John Cunningham Lilly. MOD. 
‘Author of The Miad of the Dolphin, Man and Dolphin. 
and furthcoming The Crelune’s Centers 
Geology, Hiking, Insect Life, Journalism, Leatherwork, 
Metalwork, Nature, Pioneering, Plumbing, Poultry 
Keeping, Public Health, Rabbit Raising, Railroading, 
(for people who want to get the most out of participatory 
democracy), Rifle and Shotgun Shooting (for people who 
didn’t get the other one), Small Boat Sailing, Small Grains, 
Soil and Water Conservation, Space Exploration, Weather, 
Woodcarving, and Woodwork. 
Of course there are many more. Most of the “Scoutcraft” 
like hiking and camping, and pioneering can be found in 
the Fieldbook. But 45 cents ain’t much to pay for an 
introduction to small grain farming and basketry. 
If you have a garden you probably hate things like cutworms 
and aphids but are also afraid of giving yourself that last 
dose of chlorinatedhydrocarbon that will do it. Solution: 
plant things like garlic, onion and chili pepper along the 
border of your garden and through the middle if it’s wide. 
Bugs don’t like these plants and will avoid them. 
Consequently they will also avoid your garden. If they 
don’t then crush a chili carefully into about a quart of 
water, add a crushed clove of garlic and sprinkle or spray 
the stuff on your plants. This will give all the bugs 
heartburn and they will vow never to patronize your 
garden again. Good bugs to have in your garden are lady 
bugs, ants, wasps, bees, and spiders. Even safe insecticides 
will kill them, so beware. Cutworms and other caterpillars 
aren’t numerous and should be picked off by hand. 
Dairy lovers would like to know where to get manual non- 
electric churns and cream separators. 
Yes, we would like 
to know that. The Marshall Pottery Company in Marshall, 
Texas, still makes crocks in all sizes. They have a three 
gallon crockery dasher churn. It is cheap, about $3 or $4. 
But we are looking for one with rotating paddles and a 
crank. Say, my uncle fred is a crank. I am exhausted. My 
brain is limp and drained. I have given you all my 
knowledge of the wise word. Good luck for the universe. 
Piece and undermining, 
RD and JL Hamilton 
dear you people, 
merit badges butter churns peterson field guides. 
wahoo 
my aunt babe has a crankhandle half gallonjar paddletype 
butter churn. maybe if you wrote to her. manual separators 
are scarce. babe converted hers in about 1950. you can get 
butter if you shake a jar of cream long enough, the way 
i understood paddle type churns was that it enabled a kid to 
churn a few pounds of butter without more than a few 
blisters and a bum shoulder. i’ve been hunting. 
peace, 
j.d. smith 
3D 
