press in which they are to be warped, and leans the 
_ press against the tub where the slats season by the fire 
_ (Fig. 5). The back posts are always flared outward at 
“the top and also require warping in a press; rockers, 
too, unless the board has a natural curve in it, must be 
cooked, warped, and slightly seasoned. Rounds, pegs, 
~ and slats are thoroughly seasoned in the oven but posts 
and rockers are left relatively green so they will shrink 
_ around the other pieces and hold the chair together 
- without screws, nails, or glue. 
RAarA eRe TY 
e+! 
>, 
PS 
PRs 
Bw 
bebe 
be as ES 
sme? 
“ 
rd 
_ Two wedges and the three “‘stobs” projecting from the 
_ face of Cornett’s handmade work bench form the vice 
- 
for holding posts securely while he mortises holes for 
slats. Each mortise 
requires about 25 separate strokes 
~ with hammer and chisel (Fig. 6). Holes for the rounds 
are drilled with brace and bit. Cornett again dresses the 
_ posts and begins assembling the chair (Fig. 7), fastening 
_ the joints securely with pegs (Fig. 11). Most chairmakers 
~ would have included another stage in which the posts 
and rounds are turned on a lathe but Cornett has not 
used a turning lathe since about 1950. If Cornett is mak- 
_ ing a dining or rocking chair he notches the rungs be- 
_ 
fore carving the tenon on each end of the stretcher and 
inserting the rounds into the posts (Fig. 8). 
_ The next step, called “‘barkin’ the chair,” is weaving 
__ the seat of hickory splints (Fig. 9). To get these strips 
of inner bark, the chairmaker must fell a young hickory 
tree, “unbark it’? or remove the shaggy outer bark using 
a drawing knife, and peel off strips of inner bark with 
his pocket knife (called “jerkin’ bark”). Unused strips 
are folded into “hands” or bundles until needed when 
they are then soaked in hot water to restore pliability. 
~ The final step in constructing a settin’ chair is to hold 
it against the window pane or place it on a level area— 
_ like the kitchen table—to be sure all legs are the same 
length (Fig. 10). For a rocking chair, of course, the 
~ 
: 
a 
aa 
arm rests and rockers must be dressed, shaped, and 
: 
: 
z 
lt 
added to the chair (Fig. 11). The degree of tilt ina 
= 
rocking chair is determined by the length of front posts 
in relation to the back legs: the longer the back posts are, 
the greater the tilt. 
; 
Although these are the processes used by Cor ett in 
1965 when my wife and I first met him, certain changes 
~ occurred last year when national publicity brought him 
a spate of orders. Previously he kept chairs on hand and — 
traded for merchandise, took others to town to sell, 
_ offered them to neighbors, or peddled them along the 
roadside for a few dollars. Now orders are by mail and 
demand exceeds supply. To a great extent this is a sit- 
© 
~ uation of Cornett’s own making because, like artists 
_ anywhere in American society faced with the problem 
_ of recognition and financial remuneration commensu- 
rate with the value of their art objects, he has purposely 
created many unusual chair designs to attract attention 
to himself and thus increase his sales. As a result, popu- 
lar writers have used him as journalistic copy and Cornett 
has benefited with both increased sales and prices as 
| 
Bye 
well as praise for his workmanship. 
1 i 
t 
Gj 
_ NOTE 
Photographs accompanying this article, taken by the author, are now property of Indiana 
University. At the conclusion 
of my field investigation 
all ethnographic data including 
fi 
photos will be deposited 
in the IU. Folklore Archives for use by scholars. Taped inter- 
8 
views with Mr. Cornett and his uncle are available 
at the I.U. Archives 
of Traditional 
IN LIFE & WORK, 
Music, accession number 66-204-F; the 1.U. Museum of History, Anthropology and Folklore 
has examples of Mr. Cornett’s work. 
ne Council of the 
M.O.J. 
