Song To Bring Fair Weather 
(Nootka) 
: 
You, whose day it is, make it beautiful. 
Get out your rainbow colors, 
So it will be beautiful. 
Plaint Against The Fog 
(Nootka) 
Don’t you ever, 
You up in the sky, 
Don’t you ever get tired 
Of having the clouds between you and us? 
a 
(Peruvian Dance Song 
2 
(Ayacucho) 
sy 
Wake up, woman, 
i 
Rise up, woman, 
: 
In the middle of the street 
A dog howls. 
May the death arrive, 
May the dance arrive, 
Comes the dance 
You must dance, 
Comes the death 
You can’t help it! 
Ah! what a chill, 
Ah! what awind... 
The Bark Canoes nid 
Skin Boats of North America 
Edwin Tappan Adney, Howard |. Chappelle 
Smithsonian Institution, USNM Bulletin No, 230 
$3.25 postpaid 
from: 
Government Printing Office 
Washington, D.C. 
_ Design and construction details for all native American 
_ 
boats. Compleat. 
_ 
: 
¢ 
» 
. 
Nunivak Island Kayak 
in U.S, National Museum (USNM 76283) with 
q 
cover partly removed to show framework. Collected by Ivan Petroff, 
March 30, 1894. 
Nunvok 
Island Koyoh, 
(663 
UI nohemel Murevor 
Crmpenel goo ronal 
CEI ees 
len 
a 
Portaging a 4%-fathom fur-trade canoe, about 1902, near the head of 
the Ottawa River. Shows an unusually large number of carriers; four 
ould be the normal number. 
TWO POLITICAL OVERVIEWS 
The Indian in America’s Past 
Jack D. Forbes 
1964; 181pp. 
$1 95 
postpaid 
from: 
Prentice-Hall, Inc. 
Englewood Cliffs, N. J. 07632 
- 
This collection of excerpts from the literature is an 
effective antidote to at least some of the cliches of Indian- 
_ White relations. As wars go, the atrocities of the American 
invasion were standard, but the language, both from the 
invaders and the noble defeated, was well above grade. 
And the long confusing aftermath is still quick with funda- 
mental problems. 
Indian slavery in South Carolina, 
1708 
In 1708, when the total population of South Carolina was 
9,580, including 2,700 Negroes, there were 1,400 Indian slaves 
held in the province. Probably the number of Indians employed 
by the Carolina planters did not greatly increase thereafter . 
. 
. 
From an early time the exportation of captured Indian slaves was 
favored... 
. Indian slaves were constantly escaping... and... 
their presence. 
. 
. raised the danger of conspiracies with enemy 
Indians . 
.. On all accounts it was better to ship off the Indians 
to New England or the West Indies, and to import Blacks. ..In 
the early eighteenth century (1706-1717) the Boston News Letter 
printed frequent advertisements of runaway Carolina Indians. 
The founders of Los Angeles, 1781 
California was settled after 1769 by Spanish-speaking persons who 
largely belonged to the de razon Class. |n fact, there gente de 
razon came to refer to all Spanish-Speaking persons, including 
Europeans. The following list of settlers who founded Los Angeles 
in 1781 should provide some insight into the racial character of 
the Hispano-California population. 
(1) Felix Antonio Villavicencio, Espanol, 45, married to Maria 
de los Santos Sobernia, Indian, 30, one daughter. 
(2) Antonio Mesa, Negro, 36, married to Anna Gertrudes Lopez, 
Mulatto, 27, two daughters. 
‘ 
(3) Jose Lara, Espanol, 50, married to Maria Antonia Campos, 
Indian, 20, one son and two daughters. 
(4) Jose Vanegas, Indian, 28, married to Mariana Agular, Indian, 
20, one son. 
(5) Pablo Rodriguez, Indian, 25, married to Maria Rosario 
Noriega, Indian, 26, one daughter. 
(6) Manual Camero, Mulatto, 30, married to Maria Tomosa, 
Mulatto, 24. 
| 
(7) Jose Navarro, Mestizo, 42, married to Maria Rufina Dorotea, 
Mulatto, 47, two sons and one daughter. 
(8) Jose Moreno, Mulatto, 22, married to Maria Guadalupe, Mulatto, 
19. 
(9) Basilio Rosas, Indian, 67, married to Maria Manuela Calistra, 
Mulatto, 43, five sons and one daughter. 
(10) Alejandro Rosas, Indian, 19, married to Juana Rodriguez, 
Coyote, 20. 
E 
(11) Antonio Rodriguez, Chinese, 50, a widower with one 
daughter. 
(12) Luis Quintero, Negro, 65, married to Petra Rubio, Mulatto, 
40, three daughters and two sons. 
Since the children of the founders intermarried among themselves 
and with California Natives, it can be seen how within a very few 
generations nearly everyone could trace his ancestry to three 
continents. 
Cultural change: haircuts at gun point, 1896 
As with Samson of old, the Indians’ wildness lay in their long 
hair, which the returned educated Indians wore because, as they 
boasted, ‘It made them wild.’’ All energies were bent to compel the 
adult males to cut their hair and adopt civilized attire invain.. 
. | 
directed the (Indian) police to cut theirs or leave the force. They 
reluctantly complied, but once accomplished they were only too 
eager to compel the rest, and they cheerfully, under orders, 
arrested and brought to me every educated Indian on the 
{Mescalero Apache] Reservation. There were twenty of these, 
gorgeous in paint, feathers, long hair, breechclouts and blankets. 
. 
. 
The Indian Office, at 
my request, issued a preemptory order for 
all to cut their hair and adopt civilized attire; and in six weeks from 
the start every male Indian had been changed into the semblance of 
a decent man, with the warning that confinement at hard labor 
awaited any backsliders. [The philosophy behind this action was 
that] the United States has for years footed the bills that maintained 
them in idleness, filth, immorality, and barbarism, and where a 
policy for their good has been adopted, they will not be consulted. 
Custer Died For Your Sins 
Vine Deloria, Jr. 
; 
1969; 279 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
The Macmillan Company 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, Burlington County 
New Jersey 08075 
Vine is the perfect dude to write of current Indian politics. 
Son of a missionary, enough Sioux to be a Sioux, long 
experience getting Indian kids into good schools, revved 
up by. The National Indian Youth Council stand-up-and- 
fight meetings of the late fifties and early sixties, levered 
into the key position of Executive Director of the major 
Indian lobby The National Congress of American Indians, 
and after all that he’s thirty-five and still funny. He has what 
Alvin Joseph warned me about, “the traditional American 
Indian cut-throat zeal for politics.“ Add that to his humor 
and his thoroughness and you have an unusually clear 
summary of the Indian situation 
now. His recommended 
route for Indian survival is strong land-based tribal identity. 
Since Vine addressed his book primarily to young Indians, 
I can’t resist a remark to young white Indian-savers: you 
can’t help anybody by saving them, that’s a self-defeat 
program. Relax and appreciate. Custer died for your sins. 
Also your virtues. 
A long-haired artist famous former-dope-fiend commune 
white person | know is busy learning from his Indian 
friends at the Taos Pueblo: manners. 
From 1860 to 1880, tribes were confined to reservations, as the 
West was in its death throes. Churches 
began 
lobbying early in 
the 1860's at the Indian Bureau in Washington for franchises over 
the respective reservations. Thus one reservation would be assigned 
to the Roman Catholics, one to the Lutherans, one to the Methodists, 
and one to the Episcopalians. Other churches were prohibited 
from entry on a reservation once it had been assigned to a 
particular church and 
could enter only with permission from the 
other church. It always bothered me that these churches who would 
not share pulpits and regarded each other as children 
of the devil, 
should have so cold-bloodedly 
divided up the tribes as if they 
were choosing sides for touch football. 
People have found it hard to think of the Indian Bureau without 
conjuring up the picture of a massive bureaucracy oppressing a 
helpless people. Right-wing news commentators delight in picturing 
the Indian as a captive of the evil forces of socialism and leftist 
policy. Liberals view the bureaucracy as an evil denial of the 
inherent rights of a free man. 
{t would be fair to say that the Indian people are ambivalent about all 
this. They fully realize that with no funds for investment in social 
services they are dependent upon the federal government for 
services which the ordinary citizen provides for himself and which 
other poor do.not receive except under 
demeaning circumstances. 
Yet they are also fully aware that the services they receive are not 
gratis services. Many services are set out in early treaties and 
statutes by which Indians bargained and received these rights to 
services in return for enormous land cessions. 
_.. the bureau should not be characterized as paternalistic. !t should 
be characterized as ‘‘fear-ridden,’’ for the circle of fear that operates 
within it is much more detrimental to its efficiency than is its desire 
to paternalize. 
Peoplehood is impossible without cultural independence, which in 
turn is impossible without a land base. Civil Rights as a movement 
for legal equality ended when the blacks dug beneath the equality 
fictions which white liberals had used to justify their great crusade. 
Black power, as a communications phenomenon, was a godsend 
to other groups. It clarified the intellectual concepts which had 
kept Indians and Mexicans 
confused and allowed the concept of 
self-determination suddenly to become valid. 
: 
e 
| remember spending a whole afternoon talking with a number of 
hippies who had stopped in Denver on the way west. They were 
tribally oriented but refused to consider customs as any thing more than 
regulations in disguise. Yet it was by rejecting customs that the 
hippies failed to tribalize and became comical shadows rather than 
modern incarnations of tribes. 
e 
Hippies, at least as | came to understand them, had few stable 
clan structures. They lived too much on the experiential plane 
and refused to acknowledge that there really was a world outside 
of their own experiences. Experience thus became the primary 
criteria by which the movement was understood. Social and 
economic stability were never allowed to take root. 
e 
Robert Thomas tells a famous story concerning the Cherokee who 
had a white man kill his children, steal his wife, sell his cattle, and 
burn his farm. The 
Cherokee chased the man for ten years 
_and finally caught him. ‘‘Are you the guy who did all those 
things,” the Cherokee asked. Yes, the white man admitted, he 
was the one. 
“Well, you better watch that crap,’ the Cherokee warned. 
And that is my greatest concern for the Indian people. That we will be 
so damn polite that we will lose everything for fear of hurting 
someone's feelings if we object to the way things are going. 
