= 
ee 
——— 
J.D.’s Insect-Food Bug 
Re: Recipes for eating insects. 
This recipe comes from parts of Asia and Africa. Insert 
fried peanuts into crickets’ abdomen (preferrably cleaned). 
These prepared crickets are then fried. They are supposedly 
very tasty to those whose palate accepts them. 
James Do (J.D.) 
On page 49 of you July catalog, ‘’J.D."’ asked for recipes 
for eating insects. | found this one in Science Digest for 
June, 1970, page 21. That’s volume 26, number 6. | quote: 
1 pint termites 
1 Tablespoon vegetable oil 
Ye teaspoon salt 
Remove termite wings, if any. Spread termites 
on stone to dry in sun. Put oil in pan and spread 
dried termites on it. Toast’ over hot’ coals until 
almost crisp. Sprinkle with salt. 
“It helps the flavor, say those who have tried the 
recipe, if you eat the termites in handfuls.” 
Science Digest credits the Bantus with this recipe and 
reminds readers that there is ‘lots of vitamin B” in termites. 
Termites aren't all that plentiful in most of the UESte 
but | suppose that the recipe would be just fine for ants. 
Frank Walsh 
Grasshopper Jam? 
There’s a bright side in the battle against the bugs, 
which is one front in the larger war against pesticide 
pollution and worldwide hunger. 
“If we can’t beat ’em, we'll eat ‘em,” cheerily predicts 
Dr. Howard A. Schneiderman, dean of the school of 
biological sciences at the Irvine campus of the 
University of California. 
“In the event we start to lose the battle, the war 
itself is not really lost,” he says , “for insects 
themselves are an excellent source of protein... 
Eating bread fortified with insect meal (is) no 
different than ealing bread fortified with fish meal.”” 
Proteinwise, that is. 
This is not a recipe, per se, for insects but it does imply 
that insects are very good and could be used to eat; 
probably should be used to eat! 
Pam Newbury 
reer 
hy 
SHAH} h NFM Wry 
- 
The American Bison 
You have recently received a letter to us from a Mr. Nikolai 
Goodman of Providence, R.1. Here is what | wrote to him: 
Dear Mr. Goodman: 
There are no longer any wild buffalo—they are all on game 
refuges, game preserves, ranches, or in zoos. The species 
is no longer threatened with extinction. The land available 
for the grazing of buffalo herds is now limited, so herds 
must be thinned to preserve the health of the herds and 
maintain the soil and grass on their ranges. 
If you wish to increase the number of buffalo in existence, 
you ought to buy or lease some appropriate grazing land, 
buy a couple (at least) of the animals, and care for them. 
Contact the nearest bison range for information. 
| assure you that animals are not slaughtered to fill our 
small orders for hides and horns. The animals are killed 
first, then bids are taken for their meat, hides, etc.—at least, 
that’s the most usual procedure with government bison 
herds, | believe. These buffalo would-die whether or not we 
sold hides and horns. 
Your regard for the bison is most commendable. 
HHH HHH 
So that’s what | told him. I’ve never killed a bison in my 
life and never will. | wish he were as interested in the health 
and welfare of the American Indians as he is in that of the 
American bison. 
Rosemary Lessard 
(Mrs. F. Dennis Lessard) 
Del Trading Post 
Mission, South Dakota 
36 
Memories, Dreams, Reflections 
This is the man who wrote the Foreward to Richard 
| 
Wilhelm‘s translation of the / 
Ching in 1949 which will 
give you an idea of w'i@re his mind was when most of us 
were kids or simply ne 
not. 
You don’t need tc know any psychology, other than the 
kind you learn by living, to prophet/profit from this one, 
especially the last two chapters: ‘On Life After Death” 
and-“‘Late Thoughts.” This man lived eighty-five years 
during times of tremendous change: Automobiles, 
household electricity, world wars one and two, sputnik, 
these are mentioned not at all or only casually referred to 
in explanation, parenthetically, like footnotes. He is the 
most introspective person I've ever read about and all of 
his discoveries in Psych. were due to his self-analysis. As 
you read the book, (felt a great deal of sorrow, knowing he 
was dead, after finishing it | felt he had somehow won a bat- 
tle or beaten death, or found something better than life or 
some such phrase. Transcended is the currently popular 
word. 
Anyway, this man is a seer. If it weren’t for my dislike of 
the label I’d say he was a hippie but he is really much more 
than that; he is a Man. 
Jung isn’t selling anything. His book is only a map, nota 
commandment or theology, 
if you don’t want to make the 
trip it’s still interesting to see the route traced out. 
Rick Williams 
El Paso, Texas 
Memories, Dreams, Reflections 
Carl G. Jung 
$2.45 postpaid 
from: 
Random House, Inc. 
201 E. 50th Street 
New York, N.Y. 10022 
Last, last minute corrections: Boffers are no /onger 
available by mail from Whole Earth Catalog or Jack Notting- 
ham .. .but Whole Earth Catalog now carries Geo-D-Stix 
for $8.95 postpaid. 
Embroidery Stitches 
I'd like to tell you about a great reference book. | don’t 
know if you used it in the past but it’s great. It’s 
One 
Hundred Embroidery Stitches by Coats & Clarks #150. 
It's a wonderful pamphlet and available by mail or may be 
found in any variety store just about everywhere. It’s 
very easy to follow. Myself and friends, who never embroi- 
dered before found it very good and were able to create 
wonderful designs on our first try. 
boy MADE. 
A, 
ry 
ty 
VN 
a 
rt 
7. 
The pamphlet just lists the stitches with very clear instru- 
ctions and leaves the rest to your imagination. It covers all 
the different kinds of embroidery such as Drawn Fabric 
(good for smocking blouses), Insertion stitches, as well as 
more traditional stitches. | think there’s no other book 
like it for its price (35 cents plus 5 cents postage). 
Write to: Coats & Clark 
Dept. 495 
GH90 
Fairlawn, N.J. 
07410 
Keep up the good work. 
Muffin Britten 
Atascadero, Calif. 
Speed vs. Time 
- 
Dear Sir, 
, 
Would you please send me some information your catalog, 
and please tell me if there’s any place advertised where | can 
_ 
get the process to make ‘‘speed’’ (efidimene or benzidrene) Ht 
in it, or other drugs. 
RY 
, 
: 
Charles 
charles, 
rr 
for some time now there have been posters in most youth- 
: 
places in california saying, SPEED KILLS. | tend to believe 
them. if you really want to turn yourself on, change your 
head, get away from it all, i'd suggest trying something 
more natural than pumping your body full of chemicals. 
a few diciplines, like watching a flower opening to the sun. 
it takes a little time, but does change your head. 
; 
peace, 
j.d. 
Swimming Pools As Reservoirs 
Water being a basic necessity for life, especially in 
the country where it doesn’t just run out of faucets, 
we'd like to pass along an idea for water storage. 
that we have been using for over a year. A swimming 
pool—the kind you assemble yourself with alumi- 
num frame and plastic liner—makes a totally 
adequate storage tank. 
When we were planning our water system, we inves- 
tigated the various ways of storing water, ranging 
from homemade cement tanks (tricky to build so 
they don’t crack) to expensive redwood tanks 
(approximately $600 for 5000 gallons and you 
have to keep them full or the wood gets screwed. 
up & leaks). Finally, and luckily, we hit upon the 
idea of a swimming ppol. We got ours (15 ft. dia- 
meter, 5500 gallons) during 4a Monkey Wards 
_ 
Spring Catalog Sale for about $160—a real buy, - 
but even at regular prices (up to $200) this beats 
the redwood tanks by quite a bit, and it’s easier to 
install than a cement tank. Sears and 
Western 
Auto also carry similar models. 
; 
We installed ours on a hillside .above our house . 
(after leveling and shoring up a 15 ft. area), and we 
siphon the water to our house and garden using ~ 
good old gravity (the tank is high enough above 
us so we have adequate pressure). The plastic 
liner (very good heavy duty) imports no taste to 
: 
the water, and can be replaced for about $40. The 
plastic cover you can buy to go with the pool 
(about 
$12) 
is worthless, so we bought heavy 
black plastic, draped it over a cone-shaped frame. 
we built of 2x4’s (to keep the plastic from hanging 
down in the water—it’s heavy!), and secured it 
around the circumference with the nylon rope 
that came with the original cover. 
If you’re going to use a siphon, curve the pipe (we 
used a length of copper pipe connected to our 
regular plastic pipe) up off the bottom of the 
> 
tank 6-10” & cover the opening with screen to keep | 
out the silt (which settles to the bottom), bugs, & 
frogs. 
If you install this tank on a hillside, try to find a 
spot that has a couple of big trees or a large stump 
on the downhill side (our tank butts up against an 
old burned-out redwood), so that if the earth 
_ 
shifts the whole pool won't slide downhill—an 
unlikely occurrence, 
but you'll sleep better! 
Upkeep is minimal. We emptied ours completely 
after a year to clean the liner, and found that it 
really wasn’t necesasary (the plastic looks grungy, 
but isn’t really dirty). We “fill” ours about once 
a month (more often in the summer)—we don’t 
let it get completely empty or the siphon wouldn’t 
work. It costs us less than $2 per month in 
electricity to pump water uphill from our spring 
(if you’re smart 
you'll put your spring above 
your tank—but we didn’t have a choice). 
Hope this suggestion will solve someone’s water- 
storage problem as well as it solved ours. Will 
be glad to answer any questions we can. 
\ 
Ron & Liz Peck 
Star Route Box 83 
Myers Flat, Ca. 95554 
