| SEEDTIME ° 
ON THE 
CUMBERLAND: 
f 
“Harriette Simpson Arnow 
Seedtime On The Cumberland 
Harriette Simpson Arnow 
1960; 449pp. 
$7.95 postpaid 
from: 
The Macmillan Company 
866 Third Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Miss Arnow combines her talents of novelist and historian 
in Seedtime to produce a beautifully-written account of 
life among the settlers on the Appalachian frontier. Her 
geographical focus is the Cumberland River drainage, 
which begins in Eastern Kentucky and sweeps south- 
westward into middle Tennessee. The book is loaded with 
details of frontier life-style which provide pictures not 
only of the pioneers’ daily life, but their psychology as 
well, 
Von Graffenried had chosen his people carefully, so that most 
needed skills would be represented, as many were required. There 
had to be carpenters, joiners, plasterers, and sawyers in order to 
build the only kind of home they knew to build on the rockless, 
clayless coastal plain—one of sawed timber. This, in addition to 
skilled workmen, demanded saws, hammers, nails, trowels, chisels, 
shingles, and lime that had to be got from the burning of oyster 
shells.44 Such a house took time in the building that might have 
gone to clearing fields and fortifying against the Indians; and 
during the long weeks of its building the owner and his family had 
to live in some makeshift shelter such as a tent or even house of 
bark and boughs, thereby increasing their liability to illness through 
exposure to rain and cold. 
The man who could with felling ax, broadax, drawing knife, 
auger, and froe ride into the woods and in a few days’ time build 
an all-weather house of logs in which he could live decently, and in 
comfort when it was finished, was not there. The “house made 
_ of logs Such as the Swedes very often make in America,’"4? was 
still very much a rarity on the Carolina coast. 
The New Bern settlers had brought plenty of clothing, but soon 
they were almost naked. They had when food got low, bartered 
clothes with a nearby tribe of Indians for ‘’wild meat, leather, 
bacon, beans, and corn.’’ Less than a day's journey away were 
game-filled woods, but there were no hunters in New Bern, and 
nobody to teach hunting.46 There were in North Carolina at that 
time famous hunters, who could, wearing the head and skin of a 
deer, stalk the living animal until they could get close enough for 
the kill; but these were Indians.?7 The white hunter, so proficient 
he could make money from the selling of skins, was not yet in 
America; the North Carolinaplanters paid the Indians to hunt 
for them. 
Skills alone were not enough; it is true any man who would 
survive on the border had to be an artist in the use of the broadax, 
skinning knife, scraper, hoe, froe, auger, awl, adz, and other tools, 
but equally important or more so was a knowledge of the woods. 
A\l borderers who lived as farmers were woodsmen. The forest was 
only part enemy to be pushed aside for cleared fields. It was for 
the Virginia or North Carolina settler a vast and seemingly 
bottomless widow’s barrel yielding up all manner of things from 
walink for the newborn baby’s tea to dogwood for the weaver's 
shuttle. The settler had to know these offerings, where to hunt 
a slender hickory sapling for the corn pounder sweep, lightwood for 
a bit of tar, cane stalk for the weaver's sleigh, a small and crooked 
white oak for a sled runner, but a straight one for a splitting maul. 
He had to know his wood-poplar for hewing and gouging, but 
cedar for riving, and so for several dozen: what would sink and 
what would float, what would bend, and what was best for a 
shoe peg. He was dependent upon the woods around him not only 
for building materials for house, barn, fence, much of his furniture, 
and many of his appliances from pitchfork to gunstock, but 
the woods gave him fuel, drugs, dyes, and a good bit of food. All 
© 
new-settled farmers, even the wealthy, had, until fence could be 
built, to use the open range so that meat, milk, and butter came 
from woods pasture._ 
e 
Years ago before the days of consolidated schools and good roads, 
| taught in remote sections of Pulaski County, Kentucky now 
part of the Cumberland National Forest. My pupils were chiefly 
the children of small farmers, but all around them were the woods. 
At that date in that community most farm animals were still 
on the open range so these children like earlier generations 
spent much time in the woods; in rounding up the forever > 
straying animals, in going to church, school, or to a neighbor's, 
and in collecting herbs, fruits, nuts, fuel, and in hunting and 
trapping. 
They had had no nature study or lessons in woodscraft, but on a 
Monday morning they could, with no apparent study of the either 
muddy or dusty road, tell all who had ridden or walked by the 
schoolhouse during the weekend, for they knew every shoe print, 
mule and horse “‘sign’’ in the neighborhood. They knew the common 
names as well as uses of several dozens of plants,/7 and they knew 
them winter as well as summer. 
One faint clink of a distant bell 
and they could tell whether made by horse, cow, or sheep, who 
owned the animal and what it was doing, grazing or sleeping or 
“hid-out.” They could track a strayed mule or hog or cow for 
miles when there were no tracks! couldsee. 
They, no different from the young hunters of earlier generations, 
ranged over rough lands and were never lost or hurt. They 
delighted in swinging out over creek or river and dropping into a 
pool of water; they climbed tall trees, explored sinkholes, caves, 
creek pools, rockhouses, yet | never had a school child hurt by 
a fall or suffer a snake bite, and though many of the boys started 
hunting alone at ten years of age | can recall no gun accident. Bred 
into them was the same caution the hunter had to have; a perch 
in the swaying top of a “‘slim” fifty-foot hickory 
made for good 
safe fun in a high wind, but only a fool would on a hot summer day 
stick his hand under a rocky ledge or into any hole where he could 
not see—that was a good place for a copperhead to be. They were 
forever cautious; they respected the woods, the caves, and the river 
as one respects honorable enemies; young children were constantly 
watched and guarded against the dangers there, and it was not 
until they were eight years old or so they were allowed to walk the 
paths alone. 
a 
Cabins In The Laurel 
Muriel Earley Sheppard 
1965; 313 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
The University of North Carolina Press 
Box 510 
Chapel Hill, N.C. 27514 
Cabins in the Laurel /s a record of Mountain life in Western 
North Carolina during and before the 1930's. The area has 
changed in this past 40 years; only small pockets of the old 
simple life remain but what there is is worth knowing about. 
At first you might take it for Americana or funk, but 
you soon see that the people are really far out. There is a 
ballad in there sung by a woman named Frankie Silvers. 
The song is her answer to her executioner’s question: 
“Do you have any last words?” There is a portrayal of an 
ecstatic scene inside a Holiness church wherein a woman 
becomes a saint by dancing and wailing until the congre- 
gation joins her. These are true stories. 
[Reviewed by Dave Smith] 
On Heroes 
Daniel Boone had a land fantasy. He wanted to cut 
loose from the straight life of the settlements and go 
live someplace that made a greater demand on his talents 
and creative energies. He didn’t like the economics of the 
settlements. Too much usury, too easy to get in debt, too 
hard to get out. His style and temperament were thwarted 
by people dealing only in the safe and known. The people 
in the settlements, the good burghers, were so bent on 
insulating themselves from the dangers of the unknown, 
they wound up insulating themselves from the pleasurable 
possibilities as well. In an esasy the poet William Carlos 
Williams describes Boone as “a great voluptuary born to 
the American settlements against the niggardliness of the 
damming puritanical tradition.” Boone was a sensualist, 
desperate to engage the raw, natural world directly. As a 
man of his own time, Boone performed the classic act 
of the truely modern person: he embraced the new 
world of possibility that lay before him, and didn’t look 
back. 
e 
People who are truely of their own time are the resu/t of 
a process, children of an evolutionary working that cannot 
much be hastened by artificial means. It took 150 years to 
produce Boone and the Long Hunters, men capable of 
looking at the wilderness face to face without flinching, 
without glancing back to the settlements, and to Europe, 
for assurance. They were the products of what Harriette 
Simpson Arnow, in her book Seedtime On The 
Cumberland, ca//s “the long learning.” The long learning 
was a period of several generations in which descendants 
of the original coastal settlers gradually learned to get 
along away from the sea, farther and still farther inland. 
Gradually the grandchildren and the great-grandchildren 
of an ocean-oriented people came to acquire the skills 
and attitudes a mountain man had to have. It was a 
slow and reluctant process, but by degrees individuals 
were formed whose growing expertise in the woods 
matched the waning of their interest in the old world 
of their fathers. 
e 
There were many factors that accounted for this early 
“generation gap,” but the crucial one was the willingness 
of the woodsmen to learn from the Indians. People before 
Boone’s time went on expeditions in the woods, of course. 
But always with Indians as their guides. They hired Indians 
to hunt and track; it was nearly a hundred years before 
it began to occur to the coast-dwellers that they might 
learn the Indian skills themselves. 
Williams says of Boone, “To Boone the Indian was his 
greatest master. Not for himself surely to be an Indian, 
though they eagerly sought to adopt him into their tribes, 
but the reverse: to be himself in a new world, Indianlike. 
If the land were to be possessed it must be as the Indian 
possessed it.” 
e 
And so the metaphor is inescapable: today’s middle-class 
consumer culture as a Mother Country to cut loose from; 
then a period of long-learning, in which modern frontiers- 
men gain the individual competence that allows them to 
do the necessary, practical things. Indians were the 
original teachers. They are with us still, their ways and 
attitudes remain as models, to emulate and learn from. 
But today they are joined by others who qualify as 
“Indians” of a sort, by virtue of their skills which 
allow them to function as teachers, as shamen, as 
knowers of The Way. Certain thinkers, certain mystics, 
certain far-out entrepreneurs, qualify, but so do certain 
small farmers and artisans, aborigines of a kind, native 
to their places, there on the land to be learned from by 
modern Long Hunters willing to range beyond the 
settled places in search of education and adventure. 
e 
The Long Hunter is the hero of his time, in any age. He is 
himself in a new world, Indianlike; sensuous in his relation- 
ship with the natural world around; one who has left the 
Mother Country intent upon being of as well as in what- 
ever wilderness he encounters. |’m sure that’s an 
oversimplification, but at least it’s a handle on the 
definition. And definitions are important. As the new 
world unfolds around us, so a new mythology comes 
into being, peopled with new heroes, and new styles 
of heroic behavior. In trying to arrive at a new heroic 
definition, it’s helpful to read up on heroes who have 
gone before. Seedtime On The Cumberland /s filled with 
tales of heroes. The thing you begin to realize as you 
read about them is that in most cases they were in 
actuality complex, mortal people like you and | who 
simply rose to the occasion that was before them, and 
did what they were called upon to do. 
—GN 
