the maine coast and cultural change 
There is some kind of relationship between 
-Maine’s current environmental crisis — caused by the 
unplanned ~ for incursion of heavy industry — and 
the decline of agriculture-aquaculture in the state. 
__ 
Maine used to grow things. A century ago the 
state was dotted with hundreds of productive farms. 
Most of them no longer exist; those that do are being 
phased out. The dairy industry, as Charles Sutton 
outlined in a recent Maine Times report, is becoming 
less and less profitable for the individual dairyman, 
and is becoming a corporate enterprise in order to 
survive. 
Poultry farming is also becoming “‘big business” or 
none at all. The problems of the individual poultry 
man have been well defined by Maine Times in a 
series of reports during the past year. 
Beef cattle, which could be raised in Maine on a 
much more significant scale, are generally missing from 
the Maine scene because nothing, or very little, is 
being done by state and federal leadership to help 
the beef producer solve his processing and packing 
problems. 
Truck farfning is almost non-existent, and the 
very few truck farms left are operated by men like 
Harry Prout because they would rather continue the 
‘struggle than change their way of life for obviously 
more profitable activity. 
The vast potato farms of Aroostook are all that is 
left of the state’s agricultural economy, and there 
is talk now that the market for Maine potatoes is 
shrinking each year. 
Maine used to grow things, but now it grows only 
timber, and even that crop has become less and less 
substantial. Today’s trees are grown for but one pur- 
pose: the production of pulp for making paper — a 
purpose which requires spindly trees, unfit for use as 
building material. (Maine’s wooden homes are con- 
structed with lumber shipped here from the west 
coast — a feature which Maine home builders are 
proud to point to.) 
Grapes used to grow on Maine offshore islands. 
Coastal families used to grow their entire year’s gro- 
-ceries in back yard gardens. Blueberries, apples, 
pumpkins, corn, carrots, raspberries, blackberries . . . 
they all used to grow on the thousands of Maine salt 
water farms that are now the summer homes of 
refugees from megalopolis, or the year-round homes of 
Maine folk who make their money all kinds of ways 
except from the land. 
Even the Maine fisherman, the last holdout against 
technology, has begun to be changed. Corporations are 
applying corporate systemization to the lobster fish- 
ery. The offshore, deep-water fishery in on the verge 
of collapse, not only in Maine, but in the entire 
United States. Shell fishing has become the poor 
man’s part-time occupation, and the Maine coast 
dweller who uses the shellfish at his doorstep makes 
their use a special event rather than the routine ga- 
thering of a resource which is there to be husbanded 
instead of innowd. 
The end 
of “growing things” has been well 
documented; our check list of mortality rates is 
a collection of the obvious illnesses and fatalities 
which have long been moumed by sentimentalists 
and historians of “‘the good old days”. But not 
quite so obvious is the relationship of this basic 
cultural change to the future of Maine. Those of us, 
this journal included, who want to save Maine, 
repeatedly suggest a restoration of “growing things”. 
We talk about aquaculture as a strong way of but- 
tressing the coast with a productive industry that 
demands a clean environment, as opposed to an 
oil refinery, which runs a constant risk of producing 
a dirty one. Or we talk about making it economically 
enticing to put. beef cattle on Maine coast ranges, 
thereby making it economically important to main- 
tain clean, open grass land. Or we talk about plant- 
ing and harvesting shellfish in Cumberland County 
the way potatoes are planted and harvested in 
Aroostook. 
But the fact of history is that men of this time 
do not want to “grow things”. The brutal truth of 
the history of the past century is that it has pro- 
duced a human being who now opts 100 percent for 
the product technology which produces plastics, 
cars, color television, electric can openers, air 
conditioners, and so much food from corporate 
farms that farmers are being paid not to plant and 
surplus food stocks are mouldering in forgotten 
mills. This same technology is the one that de- 
mands so much energy that oil men’s projections 
show the world’s residual fuels burnt up in two more 
generations of ever accelerating need. 
It is, indeed, this technology which has brought 
the gil men to Maine. 
_ 
Can it be honest, or productive, then to discuss 
saving Maine with the very anti-technological life- 
styles that agriculture and aquaculture require? In 
other words, is there any point to discussing and 
researching the building of an aquaculture industry 
along the Maine coast, when the people for whom 
that industry must be designed would rather watch 
a motorcycle race than plant a row of corn; or take 
a portable radio to the beach than dig in the tide - 
flats for clams. 
Perhaps those of us who see the salvation of the 
Maine coast in the restoration of ‘“‘growing things” 
are allowing sentiment to interfere with logic, roman- 
ticism to obscure reality. Perhaps it might be much 
more profitable for Maine’s environmental future 
to think about how to use the tools and truisms of 
technology to save the coast, than to attempt to 
restore it with a way of life that has apparently 
MAINE TIVES 
MAINE TIMES 
AINE TIMES 
MAINE TIMES 
Maine Times 
John N. Cole, Editor 
Peter W. Cox, Publisher 
13 Main St. Topsham, Maine 
Subscription rate: $7 per year. 
succumbed to a cultural change as basic as the inven- 
tion of movable type. 
These are not certain thoughts; they are merely 
questions raised. It is certain, however, that unless 
they are answered, the Maine coast may disappear 
because too many people came up with the wrong 
solution to a. complex problem. 
(JNC) 
Maine Times Lives! 
Earth Times has fo/ded. That’s 
a loss, but maybe not such a great 
one at that, if more people start do- 
ing what John Cole is doing with 
Maine Times. He’s not reporting on 
the whole earth. The state of Maine 
is his beat, and the results of his fo- 
cus are obvious. Earth Times fo/ded 
the same year Maine Times soared. 
Cole’s weekly circulates all over the 
U.S., but his paper is primarily about 
about Maine’s ecological problems. 
Maine Times /s revolutionary in that 
it’s a straight business, dependent 
upon circulation and advertising 
revenue like most publications; and 
yet, it takes no shit. If the Times’ 
editorial policy offends a potential 
advertiser, that’s the advertiser’s 
problem. Aside from its good work 
as a conservation news medium, the 
Times does a favor for us all by pro- 
ving that power does not always rest 
in the hands of sons of bitches. The 
Times has been a central force in 
uniting Maine’s lonely, isolated 
little voices for conservation into a 
tough political fist. It aint hippies 
they’re uniting, and Maine Times 
aint a hippie newspaper, although 
the Freak spirit obviously dwells in 
the hearts of these newspaper pros. 
The Times /ives at that difficult 
but special meeting place of over- 
ground and underground, with no 
apologies in either direction. So do 
a /ot of other people, apparently. 
Maine Times circulation is climbing. 
Let’s hope it’s true, that as Maine 
goes, so goes the nation. 
—GN 
