SSE 
ee 
a? 
2 
a. 
The Peyote Cult 
Weston LaBarre 
1969; 280pp. 
$2.45 postpaid 
from: 
Schocken Books 
67 Park Avenue 
New York City 10016 
This here is the standard authoritative book on peyote, or 
at least on the academic knowledge around peyote—diffusion 
pattern, history, variant meeting forms, psychopharmacology 
and ethnobotany, all very well chronicled. For more central 
(and subjective) information see Slotkin’s “Menomini 
Peyotism” in Transactions of the American Philosophical 
Association 42, No. 4, or Paul Radin’s Crashing Thunder, 
or my very amateur “The Native American Church Meeting” 
in Psychedelic Review No. 9. 
The standard ritual is an all-night meeting in a tipi around a crescent- 
shaped earthen mound and a ceremonially-built fire; here a special 
drum, gourd rattle and carved staff are passed around after smoking 
and purifying ceremonies, as each person sings four ‘’peyote songs.” 
Various water-bringing ceremonies occur at midnight and dawn, 
when there is a ‘‘baptism” or curing rite, followed by a special 
ritual breakfast of parched corn, fruit, and boneless meat. 
Peyote is a panacea in doctoring. 
A Cheyenne woman was cured 
of cancer of the liver which had been pronounced hopeless at a 
White hospital. Such invidious distinctions between White and 
peyote doctoring are common; for the former represents merely 
human skill, and is not the unmodified herb the direct creation of 
God? Belo Kozad, himself a well-known Kiowa peyote doctor, 
spoke as follows: 
When my sick wife was in there | chewed peyote for her. Her skin 
got like wood bark—the hair come out. The doctors couldn't make 
it. We give it up, can’t do anything. [lt was] diabetes, and we shoot 
him every time she eats. That 
spoils the people; they lose the mind 
and the skin gets bad. That morphine for Howard [Sankadote, who 
was ill the night of the meeting and could not be present] make 
him talk funny. It just ruin the people in the mind. Come to peyote! 
God knows more than any people! 
Perhaps Belo had every “pragmatic” right to talk thus: had he not 
himself cured a boy’s hemorrhage by eating one hundréd green 
peyotes for him? Peyote indeed is a famous cure for tuberculosis 
and respiratory diseases. 
The express intention of Indian policy of the period was the de- 
culturation of the natives, to be obtained by sending the children to 
white schools, away from the influence of tribal life. 
But this 
poiicy prepared the way for peyotism in several ways: it weakened 
the tradition of the older tribal religions without basically altering 
typical Plains religious attitudes, and multiplied friendly contacts 
between members of different tribes. Friendships made as school- 
boys account for considerable visiting and revisiting from tribe to 
tribe, and nearly ideal conditions for the diffusion of the cult were 
established. When Eagle Flying Above 
(Pawnee) got peyote from 
White Eyes (Arapaho) the sign language was the vehicle used, but in 
modern times the use of English as a lingua Franca is an enabling 
factor of great importance in the diffusion of the cult. Thus, 
ironically, the intended modes of deculturizing the !ndian have 
contributed pre-eminently to the reinvigoration of a basically 
aboriginal religion. 
fother 
Peyote 
on 
tage 
/\ 
Elevotion 
Fig. 1. Arrangement of interior of tipi for peyote meeting. a, 
Kiowa “standard” peyote meeting; b, Comanche horseshoe moon 
variant. 
44 
The Rock Paintings of the Saitione 
Campbell Grant 
1965; 163pp. 
£ 
$1 0.00 postpaid 
from: 
University of California Press 
2223 Fulton, 
Berkeley, Ca. 94720 
A quiet little book about a quiet /ittle tribe on the coast of 
Southern California who happened to make the most 
colorful sensational rock paintings in America, maybe the 
world. They are pure head trips, depicting mind bugs, color 
geometry, transparency, conceptual mapping, nightmare 
graffiti. 
. 
. bring your own interpretation, for none survives 
from the past. Superb color plates in this book. My copy 
is 
now speckled with acid marginal notes like “giant thought,” 
“idea having an idea” 
Ow 
Design elements from sites in the Cuyama area. Black, 
red, white, and yellow. 
Design elements from sites in the Emigdiano area, 
Red, black, white, yellow, orange, blue, and green. 
Fy 
MEL, 
pet 
yea 
= 7 
ry = 
Design element from site 
in the Ventureno area. 
Black, red, and white. 
NINE 
REMARKABLE 
PERSPECTIVES 
Ishi In Two Worlds 
Theodora Kroeber 
1964; 255pp. 
$1 .95 postpaid 
from: 
University of California Press 
| 
2223 Fulton 
Berkeley, Ca. 94720 
Ishi, the Last Wild Indian, the last of his tribe, seems to have 
touched the life of every person he met. The 
accomplishment of this book is that his touch carries 
right through the printed page. Mrs. Kroeber was married 
to the famous anthropologist who took responsibility for 
Ishi when he stumbled into the United States in 1911 from 
Yahi timelessness in the Mt. Lassen foothills of Northern 
California. Dr. 
Kroeber was a remarkable gentleman, and 
Mrs. Kroeber a perceptive 
lady. Ishi means “man”. His 
private name was never revealed. 
Fs 
The story of Ishi begins for us early in the morning of the twenty- 
ninth day of August in the year 1911 and in the corral of a 
slaughter house. It begins with the sharp barking of dogs which 
roused the sleeping butchers. In the dawn light they saw a nan at 
bay, crouching against the corral fence—Ishi. 
ee 
They called off the dogs. Then, in some considerable excitement, 
they telephoned the sheriff in Oroville two or three miles away to 
say that they were holding a wild man and would he please come 
é 
and take him off their hands. Sheriff and deputies arrived shortly 
approaching the corral with guns at the ready. The wild man made 
e 
no move to resist capture, quietly allowing himself to be hand- 
cuffed. 
The sheriff, J.B. Webber, saw that the man was an Indian, and 
that he was at the limit of exhaustion and fear. 
As to his soul, a lady one day asked him, “Do you believe in God?” 
Ishi answered “‘Sure Mike!’ 
e 
He rarely used a plane, a draw knive, an augur, or achisel. A 
9 
small bench vise, on the other hand, he took to at once, substituting 
4
it for his big toe to hold whatever he was working on. Glue he 
3 4
rated next to matches, as one of the white man’s important 
ahr 
Fe 
inventions. He kept.a pot of glue in his work kit for feathering 
z ; 
arrows, cementing bindings, joining sinews for bow strings and for 
“) 
attaching the backing to a bow. 
Door knobs, safety pins, and typewriters he regarded with quiet 
hilarity. 
e 
Obsidian 
was Ishi's favorite material for demonstration at the 
museum, although he made arrow points there also of flint, of 
agate, of plate glass, of the brown glass of beer bottles, and the 
blue of milk of magnesia bottles. As a final irony of the Time of 
2 
Concealment, Ishi was cut off from trade to north and south, and 
Yana country has no obsidian or flint. Painstakingly and 
ee 
silently, Ishi had visited the length of Lassen Trail, every campsite 
: 
Or emigrant, hunter, or camper up and down Mill and Deer 
Creeks, and the cabin middens and ranch dumps of whatever 
dwellings he could reach by night and return from by night, 
; 
combing them for the discarded bottles they were likely to contain. aie 
Once back home, he shaped at his leisure the pieces of glass into 
his ammunition. 
“ 
i
2 ay
e 
eines 
Ishi was not given to volunteering criticism of the white 
man’s 
ways. But he was observant and analytic, and, when pressed, 
;
would pass a judgment somewhat as follows. He approved of the 
- 
“conveniences” and variety of the white man’s world—neither Ishi 
z 
nor any people who have lived a life of hardship and deprivation 
; 
underrate an amelioration of those severities, or scope forsome 
- 
| 
comforts and even some luxuries, He considered the white man 
to be fortunate, inventive, and very, very clever; but child-like and. 
lacking in a desirable reserve, and in a true understanding of Nature— 
> 
her mystic face; her terrible and her benign power. 
: 
4
Indian Tales 
Jaime de Angulo 
1962; 246pp. 
$1 .65 postpaid 
“4 
from: 
Hill & Wang 
72 5th Avenue 
- 
New York, N.Y. 10011 
Oyen 
About ten years ago a story went around that a beatnik 
 j 
girl in Sausalito wrote to Ezra Pound and asked him how 
to write poetry. Pound replied promptly. “Read \ndian 
Tales by Jaime de Angulo. It is how.” 
De Angulo was a linguist at Berkeley, a bohemian person- 
ality in early Big Sur, and a good friend to the “primitive” 
Pit River Indians in Northern California. (His challenge to 
BD 
the notion of primitive may be found in his excellent 
ae 
article “Indians in Overalls”, reprinted in The Hudson 
*. 
Review Anthology, Vintage, 71961). He wrote these 
- 
stories for his children. They are made from odds and ends 
of his experiences with Indian stories, language, lore, and 
mysterious occasions. They are the best children’s stories 
= — 
/ know, and they are more simply Indian than anything 
—— 
else I’ve read. 
5 
(KPFA in Berkeley has superb tapes of De Angulo 
reading the stories. 
Maybe they’ve decomposed by TONG 
1 
/f they were made into a record set, I’d buy them ce 
atts Fe 
minute.) 
= 
