— = 
te egy 
= 
eae 
es eC) 
© 
In one of the catalogs | noticed a plea for information about 
land in Alaska, and | will try to put it briefly. There have 
been no homesteads since 1966, and won't be any until the 
Native Land Claims to Alaska are settled. This may be this 
year. It is supposed to be done this year. But then there Ise 
another bill up to Congress to extend the freeze another 
five years, pending an “‘investigation” of Alaska with a 
view toward conservation and leaving it wild. | am not sure 
how this came to be everybody else’s business besides the 
Alaskans, but it must be because so much of Alaska is still 
Federal Lands. 
However, there are things going on. One can buy land pri- 
vately from individuals who may or may not be speculators. 
One can buy and lease land from the State. We are going up 
to Palmer in a couple of weeks and bid on five acres of 
wilderness. The minimum the state wants for this five acres 
is $675.00. One hears about these land auctions through a 
publication called Alaska Land Lines, which is published by 
the State Department of Lands, and sent only to Alaskan 
addresses. Some of their land goes by lease. You can have 
it five years and then another five, and then if you want to 
own it you have to hire a surveyor. This is expensive. 
Also, there are mineral lands to be had from the U.S., but 
again you have to have proof of ‘‘color’’, that there are 
minerals, before they let you use it. You never own these, 
and you have to go in yearly and do $100.00 worth of 
work on your claims (I think that is right. It has been a 
long time since | took the course at Community College). 
Alaska is 500 miles from north to south, and 1500 from 
east to west. There are parts of it that have not been sur- 
veyed, or even walked on. Alaska is not for an ‘effete snob”. 
If you can’t face realities you couldn’t stand to live here. 
Because the realities are harsh. We have bears, and each 
year the magistrates go into the bear caves looking for but- 
tons, to declare so-and-so dead. We have had 40 sightings 
of bears in and around Anchorage this year so far. | am 
scared of bears. We have horrible weather in the winter. 
Sometimes. The winters are sometimes cold and long— 
always long, and sometimes cold. | remember one winter 
when it stayed less than 30 below for 3 weeks 
straight. | 
made the mistake of turning the car handle with a bare 
hand. Now each winter the palm of my .hand hurts where 
it was frostbit. We lose people to the elements. There was 
aguy—a Gl—here three weeks at Fort Richardson a couple 
of years ago. He went for a little hike and got lost. He died 
less than 100 yards from the entrance to the Fort. They 
called it exposure, but it was just plain fright, from being 
lost in the wilderness. | knew a guy that goes on rescue’ 
missions. He says all the people he has rescued are out of 
their heads from fright by the time he finds them—that is, the 
ones who are still alive. 
| have been down to the Land Office a couple of times and | 
see young long-haired people looking over the maps of what 
is available for lease or purchase from the State, and | am glad 
to see this. In spite of the 
putdown of young people that is 
going on in some places—and some places there, too—| hope 
they can winter through. It has always been a saying that if 
you could live here a year you could stay and would stay. It 
is possible to live off the land yet, but takes planning and the 
knowhow. 
Peacefully yours, 
B. Duffy 
3903 Greenland Dr. 
Anchorage, Alaska 99503 
P.S. If you decide to put this in the Catalog or supplement, 
please also do me the favor of indicating that | am interested 
in getting organic items (food) to sell up here, also hip mod 
items, and underground books’and press. This isn’t exactly 
anything that | can find here, and there is no wholesaler closer 
than 5,000 miles or so to me. HELP!!! 
40 == 
_ Alaska 3 
Notes from Alaska 
When | stopped into the store in November and dropped off the 
names and addresses of agencies in Alaska who dealt in land | guess 
| should have qualified the information. All Federal Land in Alaska 
is under a freeze until the Native Land Claims (or April 1, 1971 
which ever comes first) are settled. Congress seems to be dealing 
with the claims the same way they have since the turn of the cen- 
tury so the freeze may be dropped and the claims not settled. At 
any rate Federal lands may be available for filing under the Home- 
stead Act as of April 1, 1971. 
The State of Alaska, however, does have land available now. One 
plan allows any citizen of the U.S. to file on 5 acres of land in one 
of about five areas of the state. This land is available for lease and 
sale. The lease runs for five years and is renewable for an additional 
five. At any time the lease holder can have the land surveyed and 
buy it at a price equal to the appraised value at the Original time 
of filing. Other state lands are available for lease and sale from time 
to time. The whole state land situation can be discovered by sub- 
scribing to Alaska Land Lines, Write to Alaska Department of 
Natural Resources, Div. of Lands, 323 E. 4th Ave., Anchorage, 
Alaska, 99501. (Ed. Note: See below also) 
Any people who come to Alaska to try to live off the land should 
take into consideration that everything here costs more. Fairbanks 
food prices run about 50% more than in Seattle. Operating a vehicle 
is a major strain, gas costs 55 to 58 cents a gallon etc. etc. etc. But 
there are ways to make it if its worth it. Don’t expect it to be 
at all easy though and jobs are scarce. And there are those people 
here who have decided that what is wrong with America is evidenced 
by strange looking people who obviously are all part of a ‘Commie 
Plot’. Fortunately there are not too many of them though, and 
Alaska is big enough 
so anybody who looks or acts different can 
mostly avoid these defenders of the faith. 
In spite of the difficulties of land and existance in Alaska if one 
is still interested you might subscribe to Alaska magazine. Write 
to Alaska Northwest Publishing Co., Box 4-EEE, Anchorage, Alaska 
99503. Alaska Magazine devotes some space to hunting and fishing 
and if you are turned off by this too bad since many Alaskans hunt- 
to-live and are angered by the live-to-hunt types. The magazine has 
lots of helpful articles. 
If | have opened any questions—write. 
Merritt R. Helfferich 
College, Alaska 
a 
, 
7 
AUSTRALIA & IMMIGRATION 
ee 
; 
SYDNEY, Australia, Aug. 1—Australia’s immigration policy 
which has brought in more than 2.5 million new settlers 
since World War II, is under attack by economists 
and social 
scientists, and the Government announced plans this week 
for an extensive review of the program. 
eo 
P 
7 
The immigrants who have entered the country since 1945, 
mostly from Britain and Europe, make up about one-fifth 
of the nation’s population. Economists and social scientists 
are asking whether it is profitable to continue the massive 
influx—184,000 in the fiscal year ended June 30—in view 
— 
of the pressures created on schools and 
other social ser- s 
vices by the arriving families. 
‘ 
The immigration program has also been criticized as “racist” 
because of the emphasis on attracting whites to keep Aus- 
tralia ‘‘homogeneous,” as officials say. But others have 
expressed concern over the dilution of the predominantly 
white population by the admission of more than 10,000 
Asians to citizenship by naturalization since the total racial 
bars were lowered in 1956.. 
Wt 
Many Australians have been disturbed by the tendency of 
postwar immigrants to concentrate among others of the 
same nationality. This tendency has created constantly 
growing enclaves of Greeks, Italians, Yugoslavs, Maltese and 
others living conspicuously apart from the intermingled 
English, Welsh trish and Scottish people who constitute 
the bulk of the population. 
: 
i 
There is no indication, however, that the impending study 
will alter the present policy of admitting only nonwhites 
who possess needed skills and indicate capacity to integrate 
easily with the rest of the population. 
> 
—By Robert Trumbull, N.Y. Times 
Juicy Item 
Atlas Juicer 
$149.95 
: 
(Princess model 
$99.95) 
from 
ad 
Juice Master Mfg. Co. 
604 W. Muller Road 
East Peoria, Illinois 61611 
| want to inform you and 
hopefully through you, your 
readers of a top quality tool 
for sustenance and nourishment. 
| enclose descriptive material 
on both models manufactured 
by Juice Master who is a little- 
heard-of firm that pruduces top 
quality farm equipment. 
Either the Atlas Juicer or the 
Atlas Princess are far superior 
to any of the juicers now on 
the market such as Braun. The 
Atlas costs more but the value 
is there in terms of materials 
used (no plastic) and the con- 
struction (a 10 year guarantee 
on the Princess and a lifetime 
guarantee on the Atlas Juicer). 
We now have used a Princess 
model for one year and find 
ourselves appreciating fruits 
and vegetables in a new and 
+ 
> 
:
a
|
:
: 
e
ire
a 
rn 
Ps
s 
5 
¥ 
exciting way. Our diet has 
ey. 
been improved 
manyfold and. 
- 
we now savor drinks ranging 
from carrot and cabbage 
juice to grape and apples juice. 
For people living together it 
. 
4 
will be a useful piece of equip- 
ment. 
Note, that although the retail 
price is high, it is extremely 
fair given the quality of the 
item. In addition you can buy 
a 
either model at a discount if 
pd 
Juice Master does not have 
fh 
a sales representative in your 
ea? 
a 
area. Further reductions in 
; 
price are available if you qualify 
to become a dealer—by simply 
=m 
ordering three units. 
; 
mae 
a 
' 
 B.L. Faber 
> 
ee 
