We All Agree 
The Hitchhikers handbook. is almost useless, not at all worth a $1.95. 
_| am condensing its worthwhile information here for anybody who 
is considering buying the book so they won't need to. 
1. Take as little as possible 
2. Camp out 
3. Carry a pack 
4. Look pretty straight 
5. Smile 
Most of the book is stuff you learn after a few days of hitching, or 
else stuff you don’t need to know. The best way to learn how to 
hitchhike 
is to hitchhike dnd thats true for alot of other stuff too. 
Your friend, 
Peter Wilson 
Hey-- 
The useful information in the Hitchhiker’s Handbook ($1,95!) 
could be put on an 8% x 11 piece of paper & xeroxed for a nickle— 
sign, smile, back-pack, check out the driver, travel light, & it’s 
okay to hitchhike. I’m disappointed in the Catalog. 
Peace. 
Bob Woodbury 
Davis, Ca. 
Sirs: 
lam pictured on the reverse side out in search of my 
March Whole Earth supplement that has not yet ar- 
rived. 
Love, 
David Batchelder 
Northampton, Mass. 
Japanese Saws 
| noticed one of your correspondents was looking for Japanese Saws 
PP50, March cat. Tell him to try Japan Artisans 15 West Ferry St., 
New Hope, Pa, 18938 Mrs. Cooper & Mrs, Allison are great people, 
& will do mail order on Unbreakable items. They are. the only source 
I've found for saws, also for Japanese 
papers, etc.etc.etc. ONLY 
place for Tea chest paper! !!! 
In Peace & hope 
Chris Wolff 
Berkeley Heights, New Jersey 
PS Soaking an Ax handle in water is fine for a temporary job, but 
when the wood dries it will shrink more, & flying Ax heads result. 
(A BUMMER) 
Hatches 
: 
You listed our library on your community page under 
nutrition, and lots of people wrote over for booklists 
which we don’t have as we are also a food store and at the 
~ moment have not enough hands and too many, customers. 
But there will probably be a list by fall, so certainly keep 
us in. The loan period is two weeks, books being kept by 
people past that time cost 3 cents a book a day. 
Namaste 
David Handel 
Mildred Hatch Library 
8 Pine St. 
Saint Johnsbury, Vt. 05819 
Molasses Man Found 
Robert Morse, the Molassas Man, is at 15-20 202nd 
Street, Bayside, New York, 11360. 
Thank you for a superb July WEC. It has helped the 
_ rainy season float by. 
OM 
Betsy Klein 
“ 
‘ 
Assistant Editor 
OMEN PRESS, Tucson, Arizona 
Found: Harold Bate 
On P.47 of the July Catalog, (Out-Put Your Income) we ran an 
article describing the work of Harold Bate, a British inventor who 
has developed a way to power gn automobile with chicken shit—via 
methane gas. We've had lots of inquiries, © finally got a proper 
address for Mr. Bate. He wrote us a 
super .nice letter, 
& seems to 
have descriptive material of his project to send out. Write to: 
Harold Bate 
Penny rowden 
Blackawton 
Totens—Devon, England 
Northwest Looms—Well Worth It 
| would like to report on/review the looms made by Northwest 
looms to counter the impression given by Karl D. Smiley in the 
March ‘70 Supplement (p. 7). We ordered an 8 harness 20” Loom 
from Northwest. It did take a mighty wait before we got it, but we 
think it was well worth it. The looms are beautifully constructed— 
there are evidences of care/thought/love in the loom. They are 
faster and more convenient. The company was 
responsive 
immediately to a complaint (wrong number of heddles) we had, and 
now the loom is outfitted and has produced several projects. 
Please retitle item ‘‘trouble-well-worth-it looms’’. 
Love, 
Jim & Nancy Cox 
Pacific Grove, Calif. 
Oh Dear 
Dear People:, 
My two Perma-Pak Karry-kits I purchased from you 
you did not contain can-openers. Rocks are not ef- 
ficient in this function. 
: 
Peace: 
Please & Thank You 
The Wood-Runner 
Music Synthesizers 
Concerning Music Synthesizers. | have been using Moog stuff since 
1965; | have some of the first Voltage Controlled Oscillators and 
Voltage Controlled Amplifiers that he made. All are still working, 
though they have been returned twice for factory adjustment. My 
more recent Moog acquisitions have proved equally satisfactory. The 
great thing about Moog equipment is that you can start with 
individual modules and slowly build up a system: power at first 
can be from a six and twelve volt car batteries hooked up to give 
plus twelve and 
minus six volts. Intonation was a problem with 
the Moog oscillators at first (even worse with Buchla) but this is 
no longer such a problem. 
The Buchla is easy to use and produces instant tunes via the 
Sequencers, but in most hands produes cliche music. One can 
always recognize the commercials that have been made on the 
Buchla. 
The Tonus ARP synthesizer really has not proved itself yet. The 
two advantages (they say) are more stable oscillators and Matrix s 
switching which does away with the necessity of patch cords. But 
since Moog stuff is now in tune enough, and | like patching! can 
not see the advantage of the ARP. Also with the use of ICs ARP 
has made some of the modules AND KNOBS so small as to be 
difficult to manipulate. 
| cannot take the Putney seriously; it is a mere toy and a waste of 
money to my mind. 
For a cheap synthesizer 
| would reccomend the ElectroComp which 
was developed for the Connecticut public schools as a training unit 
in Electronic Music, The basic unit has a Master Oscillator, two 
voltage controlled oscillators 
a noise generator, high and low pass 
filters (not voltage controlled), Ring Modulator, Reverb, Mixer, 
Mic Amp etc and is contained in a box two feet wide, 16’’ high and 
a foot deep. The PRICE $999.50. Write to: Electronic Music Lab. 
Electronic Music Lab. 
P.O. Box 1334 
Hartford, Conn. 06101 
Robert Ceely 
Brookline, Mass. 
Miscellaneous 
Concerning laminite cardboard from TriWall Containers, Inc.: After 
three letters—no sample, not even a reply. 
Concerning concrete manuals: no longer available from Skokie, III. 
Only available from your local Portland Cement dealer. 
Also, have not been successful in obtaining catalog from Plasticraft. 
John M. Stoddard 
Gulfport, Fla. 
Crunch, Crunch 
We have not read all of the supplements so we don’t know if'you have 
have printed recipes for crunchy granola. If you haven’t—here is one: 
MIX 
4C 
rolled oats 
1%C 
shredded unsweetened coconut 
1C 
wheat germ 
1C 
chopped nuts 
1C 
hulled sunflower seeds 
%C 
sesame seeds 
%C 
flax seed 
%C_ 
bran 
1C 
ground roasted soybeans 
HEAT— 
%C_ 
oil (soy, sesame or corn) 
YC 
Honey 
’t 
vanilla 
ADD 
honey-oil mixture to dry ingredients and mix 
(mixture will be very dry) 
SPREAD 
mixture on oiled cookie sheet or jelly roll pan 
(cookie sheet with sides) & bake at 325 degrees 
about 15 min. until light brown. 
All measurements are approximate and it’s nice to improvise with 
ingredients, too. However, you make it, it will be much, much better 
than any commercial varieties. 
| would like to know of good books on vitamins, lecithin, pollen, 
ginseng, jujubes, etc. 
(Il can’t even spell them but am interested to 
know what they do for you.) Everyone | ask explains them a little to 
to esoterically for my plasticized head. 
Thank you. 
Philip & Elizabeth Schnazerson 
Berkeley, Calif. 
Vitamin E 
about burns (july $1 catalog, pg 47), last november the 
gas stove in the place we were renting blue up and messed 
up my arm. In some places it was pretty bad (black and 
flacking away by the time i got to’the hospital) and it hirt. 
i was given a shot (6 mg morphine) and the started splaching 
the arm with phisohex and cool water. The dr also told me to 
to plan on skin grafting because the elbow was bad also. my 
old lady told me about vitamin e and i sqused some under 
the bandage, took 3-4 grams a day with the same of vitamin 
c. 1T WORKS. The only signs of the burns left show up 
on those occansional times when a dr gives me a through 
phiscal. 
| forgot to say that the 3-4 grams was savesed under the ban- 
dage. | think that the oral dossage also may be important getting 
the stuff into the system, there by getting to the burn 
several ways and makeing it available over a long time, 
but I-don’t know. 
| know a couple of women who squeezed Vitamin E from 
the capsule onto their stomachs during & after pregnancy 
to prevent stretch marks. They also exercized alot & 
didn’t get any stretch marks. We'd like to know more 
including natural sources for Vitamin E. 
john mccarthy 
denver, co. 
ALGAE AS FOOD 
BONN, August 1—A joint project begun this week by West Germany 
and Thailand forsees the cultivation and processing of protein-rich 
algae as a food on a large scale. 
Initial experiments by the Carbobiological Research Station in 
Dortmund show that single-cell algae can be collected, dried and 
reduced to a powder that provides a basis for nutritional soups, 
crackers, and puddings. 
The Dortmund scientists have already successfully tested their green 
powder as nourishment for hospital ipatients suffering from a lack 
of protein. The algae they have been using contain 51 per cent 
protein and all the basic amino acids. Recently the Federal Minister 
of Development Aid, Erhard Eppler, demonstrated to ‘journalists 
that the bright green powder could be made to taste good. He 
smiled broadly after swallowing some. 
Under an agreement with Thailand, West Germany is to provide more 
than $300,000 in technical aid for algai-food experiments in South- 
east Asia. 
The Dortmund scientists are to work with Thai scientists from the 
Institute of Food Research and Product Development of Bangkok 
for the next three years. They hope to establish acceptability 
criteria that would stimulate the production and consumption of 
algae food. Dr. Carl J. Soeder, director of the Dortmund research 
team, said the Germans wanted to see whether the single-cell algae 
Originating in fresh waters here can be cultivated in the tropical 
climate of Thailand. 
In parts of northwest Thailand, multiple-cell algae, or fresh water 
weeds, are already used as food by the native population. Dr. Soeder 
explained that single-cell algae grow much faster than their 
multiple-celled cousins. 
—N.Y. Times 
a
