i 
HY 
(Cp == 
TIREREs 
| 
how to use an ax, or anarchy as the solution 
to oppressed womankind’s problems or 
the female revolutionary as true artist or 
the true artist as the female revolutionary 
"rose was in the shower singing “i left my love in the Malay 
Bay” when he knocked on the door. It was Jim and Rose 
knew it. She had been expecting him since the night before. 
Rose was Jim’s home port girl, rather she was his steady 
home front woman wine. which meant that whenever his 
ship pulled into the old recognizable cheery familiar 
grey navy docks from where he originally left, he put 
his aftershave and deoderant into his leather bag and 
disembarked straight for Rogie’s second story place. 
with a bit of 1940’s movie suave, picked up when he 
was 10, Jim saunters up the side steps and pushes the 
bell button. to bring us to where we are in this accounting. 
And Rose, the reason she knows it is her Jim there on the 
other side of the door, is that she received a post card 
in the mail two days ago with a picture of a southasian 
monkey scratching himself and on the back a message 
scrawled in red'ink: home is where you can 
whenever you're itchin’. 
This was Jim’s secret message which led Rosie to lie 
awaiting his immanent! return. She/had tucked the post- 
card discretely between the pages of her cookbook and 
Jim caught a side view of it as he surveyed the kitchen 
(he showed himself in and was working his way back 
toward the bathroom which was located at the rear of 
her skinny apartment) and leaned his ear toward the 
sounds slipping under the bathroom door. Rose my 
sweet you sing like ai silver flute like a trout under a 
waterfall. ah he sighed under his breath. The water sound 
stopped behind the door and Rose’s voice came sifting 
through the silence. ‘’Zat you Jim?”’ 
Now Rose never was one to be caught unprepared, so she 
had spent all morning shining her pots with copperchrome 
to a perfect shine. She had taken everyone and arranged 
them strategically though not unsymetrically nor without 
taste in arrangement around her kitchen, so that the 
moment after she appeared from out of the bathroom 
doorway clad braless and fetching in her black mini 
slip, she was armed, waving her saucepan around her 
head feet anchored wide for balance, leaning back with 
a gut yell she let it fly. Jim, unfortunately, ducked in 
time, thereby saving himself for further attacks and 
letting the pan crash into the pasteboard wall behind 
him, where it made a moon-shaped dent. nor was Rose 
one to waste time and grabbed another pan before the 
first one she let fly had arrived at the wall. this time she 
stalked jim, who, caught unprepared for this attack, was 
alternately scared and dumbfounded. he assumed a 
crouching position to express this mixture of feelings. 
Using the corner cabinets for a backdrop he attempted 
to shield himself with what was the.only readily available 
device the dishdrainer. pottery splattered on the floor 
as he yanked the drainer off the countertop. with her 
left, she hurled tin after tin some through the window 
hole, some bounced off jim, then closed tii on her 
crouching victim and poured pot after pan upon him 
until they were arranged in an astonishing and shining 
heap, forming such bold asymetries, such original oblique 
patterns as to boggle the mind of even the most genius of 
all up and coming art critics. The sun coming in from the 
broken window struck on the aluminum curves so as to 
make the whole pile seem like a perfection in convex/ 
concave dark/light studies in opposites. 
DON’T move! shreiked Rose at her Jim, who at this 
time was laying with only his knees exposed and his 
mouth hanging open to utter a rasping whaaaaaa@t.......... 
—r. wakeland 
“It Was 50 Years Ago, Today” 
Nor do I need to pray for courage to join a riot, 
throw stones, scratch faces, tear clothes, or anything 
else that comes along in the course of defending my 
ideals. That courage was born in me as my woman’s 
heritage of the ages and trained by every tradition of my 
personal life and of the South. 
Here is the important point, it seems to me, the men 
and the antis are all missing in the psychology of the 
— 
present stage of the suffrage movement, particularly as 
it is manifesting in England: When driven to despair of 
the use of milder methods—despair of argument with a 
wolf or moral suasion with a snake—we start in fighting, 
nerved and spurred to it by one of the oldest mstincts 
in the world: defense of our offspring of body and brain. 
The instinct has never changed, and may Heaven defend 
us from the woman who isn’t womanly enough to stand 
up and fight, regardless of self-interest, for the thing 
she loves! The woman who isn’t willing to isn’t a woman 
at all, she’s only an apology in petticoats, 
Realizing this now, I frankly glory in being “a 
creature of instinct.” It makes me feel consciously allied, 
as I never did before, with the whole living world, one 
with its primal forces, partaker of its progress, assistant 
creator of its coming achievements. 
from January 25, 1913 issue 
Saturday Evening Post 
“The Evolution of a Suffragette” 
G 
Ts oe = ©)S 
ETT 
IT AT EIT IOS LE SLES ALS IE SELENE E LLG PLAIL AL AIELLO PLP, ILENE NEALE. VLBI CE ALLIES ODI DEE 
A EERE EIB DES ATER IO 
IO IE EERIE EI 
ae 
a= SSE 
ee 
CTO TASS OS TION 
HL) 91 Puls € = CEE CE (Gy) D 
The Motherhood Myth 
“why don’t you come to our women’s lib meeting?” 
“my husband won’t let me.” 
The younger-generation females who have been 
reared on the Myth have not rejected it totally, but at 
least they recognize it can be more loving to children not 
to have them. And at least they speak of adopting 
children instead of bearing them. Moreover, since the 
new non-breeders are ‘‘less hung-up’’ on ownership, they 
seem to recognize that if you dig loving children, you 
don’t necessarily have to own one. The end of The 
Motherhood Myth might make available more loving 
women (and men!) for those children who already exist. 
When motherhood is no longer culturally 
compulsory, there will, certainly, be less of it. Women 
_are now beginning to think and do more about ,develop- 
ment of self, of their individual resources. Far from being 
selfish, such development is probably our only hope. 
That means more alternatives for women. And more 
alternatives mean more selective, better, happier, mother- 
hood—and childhood and husbandhood (or manhood) 
and peoplehood. It is not a question of whether or not 
children are sweet and marvelous things to have and rear; 
the question is, even if that’s so, whether or not one 
wants to pay the price for it. It doesn’t make sense any 
more to pretend that women need babies, when what 
they really need is themselves. If God were still speaking 
to us in a voice we could hear, even He would probably 
say “Be fruitful. Don’t multiply.” 
From “Motherhood—Who Needs /t?”” 
By Betty Rollin, Look Senior Editor 
Look Magazine, Sept. 22, 1970 
BESS 
she: why you yawn every time i start to talk about 
anything? 
he: 
(yawning) that’s ridiculous. 
BOSS 
Dennis: The trouble with you Margaret, is you think you 
know everything. 
Margaret 
I know a lot of things you don’t know! 
Well, I know something you don’t know! 
What’s that? 
I know you don’t know as much as ya think ya know! 
Don’t pay no attention to Margaret, Tommy, she’s 
a DUMBBELL! 
Well, You’re an ADDLE- BRAINED IMBECILE 
Oh, yeah? Well you’re a BONE-HEAD 
And You're a DIM-WITTED DOLT! 
You’re a DOPEY NUMSKULL! 
You’re.a BRAINLESS IDIOTIC INCOMPETENT! 
Yeah? Well, you're a... a... 
You can’t get the best of me, Dennis, | know too many 
words! 
Well, you’re even worse than all them things you asl & 
Iwas! 
. 
Oh? And what could possibly be worse than Those 
things? 
You're a... a... 
I'm wees = ahead, what am 1? 
You’rea. 
. GIRL! 
Tommy: Boy, noate 
sure told HER! 
Yeah Yeah. With all her big words she can’t top that! 
from Dennis the Menace, by — 
Hank Ketchum, San Francisco 
° 
Chronicle, Sept. 13, 1970 
: 
ve> 
= 
9 ZDEDEDE 
S9se 
Pry 
