WORLD GAME 
Hello, 
I just picked up the July Catalog, saw Cary James letter 
about the World Game, and felt moved to reply. I've written 
articles on the Game for the “Earth Times (R.LP.)”, and 
the “San Francisco Chronicle,” and I’m currently working 
with the San Francisco Game. 
“Wiring up the globe” is really a bad choice of words. It 
brings to my mind nightmare visions of the earth caught 
tight in the grip of a copper-aluminum wire girdle. Did Gene 
Youngblood use those words? I can’t check right now 
because my copy of that Catalog is with’a friend. 
~ World Game does propose linking together world 
communication, transportation, and energy systems. A 
process is now extant whereby lasers can deliver electricity. 
Lasers and Telstar can already handle communications 
with unparalleled efficiency. Webs which utilize lasers and 
electro-magnetic waves could interconnect energy and 
communications without wiring up the planet. In fact, 
many of the wires that now mar our landscapes could be 
taken down and the metal resources used elsewhere. 
One of the benefits of these webs is that existing power 
sources, which now operate at about 50 percent capacity, 
could be fully used, almost doubling our current power 
supply and doing away with much of the need for damming 
more rivers, burning more fossil fuels and so forth. , 
One is on very shaky ground making short reference to 
“Christian” thought. Is the reference to St. Paul’s Christianity, 
or John Calvin’s, or Martin Luther's? A very wide 
metaphysical chasm separates Billy Graham and Teilhard de 
Chardin. 
World Game has a concept of a “bare maximum.” It’s not a 
Buckminister Fuller idea. It came out of the New York 
Studio School World Game seminar in summer 1969. 
A “bare maximum” is the most of a resource that a human 
being will use 
under optimum conditions. World Game 
wants to make available to every human being, free of charge, 
a bare maximum of food, electrical energy, shelter, 
communication, education, health and medical care. trans- 
portation, and leisure. Free. Not that everyone would have 
to use it all. If you want to fast, no one forces you to eat 
a bare maximum 
of food. 
World Game simply wants these resources available. Free. 
No more having to work to stay alone or prove self-worth. 
If that’s not a change from Christian Calvinist ethics. 
. 
. 
face it, il’s a change. 
Is there an attempt at analogy in the reference to “an old 
Chinese parable?” the “gain of efficiency” the farmer re- 
fused may have kept a few people from starving. 
Fuller, and the World Game, would like to automate the 
means of production. Several benefits would follow: 
Because machines can do many, many jobs faster and 
better than humans—more efficiently—and do them ona 
24 hour a day basis, industrial cities would actually 
shrink, returning surface land to nature. 
There is a correlation between 
industrialization and birth 
rate: as the former increases, the latter declines eventually 
balancing the population. Evidence is support of this is 
found in the latest U.S. Census report, the July issue of 
“Scientific American,” and the Geograplw of Hunger, 
by former 
chairman of the executive council of the 
United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization 
Josue de Castro. Efficient industrialization could curb the 
menacing population crisis. 
Efficient automation would free the thousands now 
subjugated to assembly line production. And those 
thousands wouldn’t have to commute back and forth each| 
day in their pollution spewing automobiles. 
World Game is suggesting that humans stand aside and let 
machines do what machines can do beter than humans: 
produce basic goods, commodities and services. Humans: 
collect your bare maximums. Free. And what’s to do with 
your time? 
Make love, get high, actualize innate 
capabilities, create, learn, enjoy .... . commune with 
’ nature...... 
Om 
Hal Aigner 
628 Throckmorton 
Mill Valley, Ca. 94941 
Your catalog (book? magazine?) has helped me locate 
where I’m at. Thought | might pass along some information 
in return: 
Another good book on electronics: Electronic Communica- 
tion by Robert Shrader;McGraw Hill. Quite readable, covers 
everything from the basics (electrons, atoms and such) to 
radio, TV, and microwaves, with a special section on ama- 
teur and naval radio. (1967 edition also covers transistors) 
Having lived with the book for two and half years, I’d be 
willing to write a review, if you so desire. 
You list GE’s SCR book, but for anyone who knows a 
little about electronics, their transistor manual (the thick 
one) is useful. It covers audio, radio and basic digital 
(computer) circuits, including circuits, diagrams. 
Wrote to Carbondale (Bucky and his group) requesting 
information on the WOSD Documents. Received a nice 
little pile of information not only on this (see enclosed 
photostate) but on the World Game Seminar and on 
the World Game Seminar and on Bucky in general. 
Example: if you and at least three other friends can dig 
up $15.00, you can set up a World Game Extension Study 
Group. (You get a procedures manual and inventory slides) 
Peace, 
Richard Gould 
1583 Morris Rd. 
Kent, Ohio 
World Design Science Decade 
1965-1975 Publications 
Major publications from the World Design Science Decade 
1965-1975 series, now available as follows: 
Inventory of World Resources 
Human Trends and Needs 
—by R.B. Fuller and John McHale 
The Design Initiative 
—by R.B. Fuller 
Comprehensive Thinking 
—by R.B. Fuller 
The Ten Year Program 
—by John McHale 
Comprehensive Design Strategy 
—by R.B. Fuller 
The Ecological Context: Energy & Materials 
—by John McHale 
$5 each 
Except students, who may purchase single volumes at $1.75 
per copy or $10.50 per set (6). Add $1.50 
for postage and 
handling in the United States; 
Airmail costs are $12.00 for Europe and $18.00 for Africa and 
Oceania. 
Sea Mail costs $3.00; however, shipment takes approximately six 
weeks. 
**Please specify which class of postage to be used** 
from: 
WORLD RESOURCES INVENTORY 
206 West College/Parrish Building 
P.O. Box 909 — First Floor 
Carbondale, Illinois, 62901 
U.S.A. 
Buddhist Economics 
' 
The Buddhist point of view takes the function of work to 
be at least threefold: to give a man a chance to utilize and 
develop his faculties; to enable him to overcome his ego- 
centredness by joining with other people in a common task; 
and to bring forth the-goods and services needed for a 
becoming existence. Again, the consequences that flow from 
this view are endless. To organize work in such a manner 
that it becomes meaningless, boring, stultifying, or nerve- 
racking for the worker would be little short of criminal; it 
would indicate a greater concern with goods than with 
people, an evil lack of compassion and a soul-destroying 
degree of attachment to the most primitive side of this 
worldly existence. Equally, to strive for leisure as an 
alternative to work would be considered a complete 
misunderstanding of one of the basic truths of human 
existence, namely that work and leisure are complimentary 
parts of the same living process and cannot be separated 
without destroying the joy of work and the bliss of leisure. 
From the Buddhist point of view, there are therefore two 
types of mechanization which must be clearly distinguished: 
one that enhances a man’s skill and power and one that 
turns work of man over to a mechanical slave, leaving man 
in a position of having to serve the slave. How to tell the 
one from the other? The craftsman himself, says Ananda 
Coomaraswamy, a man equally competent to talk about 
the Modern West as the Ancient East, ‘the craftsman himself 
can always, if allowed to, draw the delicate distinction 
between 
the machine and the tool. The carpet loom is a 
tool, a contrivance for holding warp threads at a stretch 
for the pile to be woven round them by the craftsmen’s 
fingers; but the power loom is a machine, and its significance 
{ 
as a destroyer of culture lies in the fact that it does the 
essentially human part of the work.” It is clear, therefore, 
that Buddhist economics must be very different from the 
economics of modern materialism, since the Buddhist sees 
the essence of civilization not in a multiplication of wants 
but in the purfication of human character. Character, at the 
same time, is formed primarily by a man’s work. And work, 
properly conducted in conditions of human dignity and 
freedom, 
blesses those who do it and equally their products. 
The Indian philosopher and economist J.C. Kumarappa 
sums the matter up as follows: 
“lf the nature of the work is properly appreciated and 
applied, it will stand in the same relation to the higher 
faculties as food is to the physical body. It nourishes and 
enlivens the higher man and urges him to produce the best 
he is capable of. It directs his freewill along the proper 
course and disciplines the animal in him 
into progressive 
channels. It furnishes an excellent-back ground for man to 
display his scale of values and develop his personality.” 
If 
aman has no chance of obtaining work he is in a des- 
perate position, not simply because he lacks an income but 
because he lacks this nourishing and enlivening factor of 
disciplined work which nothing can replace. 
A modern 
economist may engage in highly sophisticated calculations 
on whether full employment ‘‘pays’’ or whether it might 
be more “economic” to run an economy at less than full 
employment so as 
to ensure a greater mobility of labour, a 
better stability of wages, and so forth. His fundamental 
criterion of success is simply the total quantity of goods 
produced during a given period of time. ‘If the marginal 
urgency of goods is low,”’ says Professor Galbraith in The 
Affluent Society, ‘then so is the urgency of employing the 
last man or the last million men in the labour force.” And 
again: “If ...wecan afford some unemployment in the 
interest of stability—a proposition, incidentally, of 
impeccably conservative antecedents—then we can afford 
to give those who are unemployed the goods that enable 
| 
them to sustain their accustomed standard of living.” 
From a Buddhist point of view, this is standing the truth on 
its head by considering goods as more important than people 
people and consumption as more important than creative 
activity. It means shifting the emphasis from the worker to 
}
the product of work, that ‘is, from the human to the sub- 
human, a surrender to the forces of evil. 
While the materialist is mainly interested in goods, the 
Buddhist is mainly 
interested in liberation. But the 
Buddhism is “‘The Middle Way” and therefore in no way 
antagonistic to physical well-being. It is not wealth that 
stands in the way of liberation but the attachment to 
wealth; not the enjoyment of pleasurable things but the 
craving for them. The keynote of Buddhist economics, 
therefore, is simplicity and non-violence. From an 
economist’s point of view, the marvel of the Buddhist way 
of life is the utter rationality of its pattern—amazingly 
i 
small means leading to extraordinarily satisfactory results. 
i 
Sent in by John K. Green 
iG 
Resurgence 
; 
published 6 times yearly 
4, 
3s. single issues (U.S. 50 cents) 
,] 
£1 per year (U.S. $3.00) post free 
from: 
24 Abercorn Place, St. John’s Wood, 
London, N.W.S., England 
