3 flections, Post-Liferaft Earth 
r Stu, 
y happenstance | signed on #1 at the Hayward Liferaft, but in my 
way retreated to near invisibility the rest of the week (the print- 
ed account was, | think, referring to me when it said ‘‘... then 
there was the guy who looked like the vice-president of an electron- 
ics firm who nobody knows anything about. . 
. “| sort of did surface 
again. momentarily the crowded night in back of the store for a pro- 
bably incoherent stab at welcoming the Hog Farm bunch and the 
interesting new realism the experiment had taken. Anyhow, the 
“letter doesn’t depend all that much on your remembering me. 
Partly, I’m sure, influenced by the Liferaft Earth experience I've 
been trying to only minimally support the establishment. | hope 
not out of just half-ass involvement, but from not having been 
convinced the whole structure neéds toppling... I'm encouraged 
thinking about the kids | see today moving into responsibility. 
Anyhow, | make slightly less $ than pays for food, rent and keeping 
the old VWrunning. 
The resulting leisure is spent, mostly at 
nearby isolated Land’s End Beach sort of,trying to coax my UCLA 
~ engineering/physics training to yield productive integrations of (e.g.) 
*Liferaft Earth Experience. 
: 
*Seeming coalescense of humans into cities, and then 
further into communes, rather than the subu rbanization 
(helicopter commutes etc.) which was predicted not too 
7 
___ 
long ago. 
. 
*Some western (probably mathematical) adaptation of the 
4 
I Ching and application to simplify computer opperation 
q 
(One arrangement, the King Wan, as | recall, is in 
numerical ascending sequence when the six divided/undi- 
vided lines of the hexagrams are converted to the yes/no 
of binary numbers.) 
*Experiments back east searching for traces of postulated 
particles with velocity exceeding that of light. 
*Experiments down the peninsula with electroencepha- 
lograph response of plants to whatever human anger 
broadcasts. 
_ 
No great flashes of 
inspiration, but a kind of pleasureable sense of 
working at what man does best, at or near my best, ensues so far. 
Perhaps this sort of alert but unworried intellectuation is part of 
what you've been fostering in your past few years. If so, many 
thanks. 
‘ 
3 Sorry to get so chatty, hope this finds you with leisure. 
hea 
Dick Duncan 
San Francisco, Ca. 
The Latest Inflatables 
Here's what we've been doing with inflatables recently—at 
the Media Conference at Goddard, many of us (Cosmic 
Labs, Southcoast) lived in poly bubbles in the woods (300' 
extension cord) and stayed dry through three days of rain. 
Very functional and nice. 
I've been doing a series of Water-Bubbles for the NYC Parks 
Department. Their Festival Truck goes to street fairs and 
provides stages, PA, lites, and Bubbles. We lay down the red 
carpet (non-woven polypropylene, $1.75/sq. yd. from Ozite 
Corp.), inflate zoomy 16 guage viny! bubbles with 5000 CFM 
- blower mounted on the truck, tie the anchor ropes to park- 
ing meters, lite poles, fire hydrants, etc., attach 1”’ hose to 
fire hydrant & 3-way distribution system: one to overhead 
‘sprinkler hoses, one to floor sprinkler hoses, one to 4-way 
direct spray. Add 150 kazoos, cowbells, claves, tambour- 
_jnes—and turn the kids loose inside. They really give ita 
~ workout—the carpet protects the bubbles and the kids 
when they slide and fall. | try to get them involved in putting 
it’ up and down. Some do, some don’t. The first model was 
in 8 gauge viny!—it almost worked, but would usually rip 
after a few hours. | really hate to tell them ‘Don’t... ". 1 
— think the new model will take about anything except knives. 
Even in Hunt's Point and Lower East Side, no knives 
attacked it. 
‘Now we’re in Columbia Maryland working on the Antioch 
_ project to put this campus in a 1-acre inflatable using the 
oodyear system—12 guage vinyl reinforced with steel cables 
ou ith internal drainage points. The site slopes 15%. We'll do 
~ earthwork—direct ramming and CINVA Ram—to form an 
earth berm and interior spaces. Probably also have foamed 
interior structures. Southcoast is here working on a proto- 
type. Some hassles on zoning, air conditioning, financing— 
we’re working on a grant from Educational Facilities Labs, 
‘e. 
po 
' 
Inflated pillow designed by Tilford for Liferaft Earth. 
Re: Quick Hard Summary 
~~ 
We have started a store here in Briceland about the same time 
time Mick (who is an old friend) did. We had an initial cap- 
ital investment of about $300. With the help of our favorite 
organic food store (Briceland Store) we have converted an 
6x15’ space into a Whole Earth Store. Our overhead is low. 
Since it is a family operation no salaries are paid. Every week 
we deposit our money in the bank and then proceed to re- 
order on the past weeks revenue. Since welive in the country, 
we give all patrons a 10% discount on most books. As 
we grow we intend to lower our prices more. We are now 
getting into tipis and also sell “much handcraft items. (We 
get 20% of selling price) Business is booming. 
So we bought a lot in town for low down and small monthly 
payments. We are now in process of tearing down the exis- 
ting building preparatory to erecting a 40’ ferro concrete 
dome. We need more space very badly. | figure the cost of 
erecting our first dome to be about $2000 over the period 
of about 3 months. We are looking for spare capital but 
expect everything to be O.K. By the time the rains come. 
Can we tell you more? 
Love, 
Mike L. Limon 
Redway, Calif. 95560 
For Scroungers 
| run a homestead and a small print shop. (I have a journalism degree, 
formerly worked as a newspaper reporter, then magazine writer.) 
Here are a few items I've run across that might be of interest or use. 
Offset printing plants discard large numbers of printing plates. These 
vary in size and thickness, but they‘re good for roofing, feed pans, 
and just about anything else you'd use thin sheet metal for. Some 
of the schnooks 
are starting to charge for them, but most are free. 
Wooden skids are also available many places. The largest printing 
plant in this area burns theirs. Even with my small shop, I’ve accu- 
mulated enough for a variety of uses. 
| don’t know about real logging country, but here where small saw- 
mills cut an occasional log for farmers, the slabs trimmed off to 
square up the log are burned. | trimmed the edges, nailed them 
vertically to 2 x 4’s, and built a darn nice hen house and a decorative 
fence. 
Peace. 
J.D. Belanger 
Marshall, Wisconsin 
(Ford Foundation). Project has a fairly high reality-feel 
about it. |’m working on getting the vinyl mettalized—to 
cut down head gain. Maybe put silver mylar on the vinyl. 
The structure will have a double skin for insulation. This 
makes some problems on duct connections. But it opens 
up the possibility of sculpting the “ceiling’’ at will by vary- 
ing the skin spacing. Goodyear is opening up their research 
department to us. The whole thing is an order of magnitude 
of complexity higher than the poly bubbles. But it’s still more 
and better for less. 
FINE tape source: 
Arista Custom Tapes 
Foot of Farm Road 
Secaucus, N.J. 
Phone 201 864-3131 
Mr. Zymler has been most cooperative and friendly. The 
tape we usually buy is 5 mil vinyl, $1.20 per inch of width 
for 36 yard rolls, in many colors, all good (red, yellow, blue, 
green, white, black, orange, and others) in case lots. He'll 
sell as few rolls as you need—15% more for less than a case— 
fast service—2 days by UPS in NYC area, and ships by air. 
The tape can be cut in any width. I’ve been ordering 3” and 
taping both sides, for heavy-use stuff. 
A source for screw-in earth anchors: 
A.B. Chance Co. 
Jersey Avenue 
New Brunswick, N.J. 
$6.15 for an 8” helix on 1” x 60" shaft, will hold 10,000 
Ibs. in normal soil. 
Charlie Tilford 
Inflatoenvironmentologist 
Let The Sun Shine In 
The Mobile Solar Shop and Living Unit was designed to 
compact all of man’s material needs 
in the smallest 
possible space. (A patent has been applied for). 
It is a spherical trailer with the capacity to float, made of 
plywood, metal and plastic. Sites for stove, sink, 
refrigerator, etc. have been carefully planned out to keep 
it compact. 
A pole up the center holds the table machinery and solar 
power installation (now under construction). | plan to 
harness solar energy with a five-foot diameter alurainum 
parabolic concave mirror which would focus on a vacuum 
tube thermionic 
converter which will convert the heat 
into electricity. It is my. hope that it will drive asmall 
motor which turns the basic machine tool plus other 
utilities. 
A ‘—back up system with batteries and fuel should 
operate the unit during dark hours. The machine, centrally 
located, if supplied with small basic attachments, can 
perform the functions 
of alathe, drill press, milling 
machine, radial arm saw, grinders, sanders, saber saw, sewing 
machine, etc. Coupled with a portable drill, hand tools, 
and some nuts and bolts, | feel that this basic design will 
allow the user to make repairs and build other tools and 
parts to the-point where the user could be more sufficient. 
With basic parts such as those that make up the _.unit, 
industry could mass produce much cheaper and faster. 
Today we have too many specialized and badly designed 
parts, tools, appliances and houses. Too many different 
machines have to be made to build the parts of all the 
millions of different products on the market today. | 
feel that the basic architecture of the Mobile Solar Shop and 
Living Unit offers a possible solution to many of the 
world’s problems. 
Back to the basic necssities; by lowering the table, the whole 
unit can transform into a sleeping area. Many changes are 
foreseen on future units which are yet to be built. 
Eric Reiter 
301 16th Avenue 
. 
San Francisco, CA 94118 
New NASA Photos 
The U.S. Government Printing Office has available, at very low cost, 
several rather good sets of photographs from the Apollo flights. 
NASA Picture Set No. 1 consists of seven color prints, 11x14", 
from the Apollo 8, 9, and 10 flights, at $1.25. NASA Picture Set 
No. 4 contains twelve color prints of the Apollo 11 lunar landing, 
including an incredibly beautiful Whole Earth, at $1.75. NASA 
Picture Set No. 5, at only $1.00, has one fine color print, 16”x20", 
showing an astronaut standing near the lunar seismometer, with 
his spacecraft behind him. NASA Picture Set No. 6 is made up of 
ten color and black-and-white prints of the Apollo 12 lunar landing, 
at $1.50. At last inquiry (June), Mariner 6 and 7 photographs of 
Mars were not yet available. 
All can be obtained by mail from the Superintendent of Documents, 
Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C., 20402, or the 
USGPO Bookstores in some large cities. Pick them up yourself if 
you can; the U.S. Mail does not treat them gently. Peace. 
Alan R. Betz 
Vancouver, B.C. 
Plastic Possibility 
For several years we have used a tough inexpensive plastic sheet 
for tent flys and small tents. A nylon mesh embedded between 
- 
two sheets gives this material a tear strength of 100 Ibs., more than 
enough for such use. The manufacturer will cut the material, finish 
the edges and instal! grommets to the customers specifications. Cost 
is about 5 cents per square foot and grommets are about 25 cents 
each. Custom fabrication of tents, air houses, etc, is also available. 
| think that this material would be of interest to your readers. In 
addition to its use in tents and tent flys | think that it would be a 
very practical material for use in more sophisticated tensile struc- 
tures. 
The manufacturer is: 
Griffolyn Company Inc. 
P.O. Box 33248 
Houston, Texas, 77033 
William W. Wood Jr. 
Dover, New Jersey 
39 
