Appalachia 
/f you’re interested in Appalachia—and there are lots of 
reasons to be interested—here’s some good books about 
the place. These books don’t exhaust the bibliography, 
but they’re a good place to begin. From pre-settlement 
to modern times, the important chapters in the 
Appalachian story are represented in these books. And 
each book will lead you into ten others, if you want to 
go that far. Why go that far? Why is this particular 
mountain region of special interest? It’s a mysterious 
place, for one thing. Some geologists say the 
Appalachians are the oldest mountains in the world, 
that possibly they were once connected to the 
African continent, before vast geologic upheavals divided 
them with oceans. The Appalachians were the wall of 
mountains that pinned American settlement to the 
coastal regions for more than a century. The breakthrough 
that occurred in the 1770’s represented the first giant 
step of what became the transcontinental westward 
movement. The Appalachians were “‘the west” at one 
time, the first frontier; and ironically, in many ways 
they are becoming frontier again in the 1970's. Although 
the westward movement passed through there nearly 
two hundred years ago, it is in Appalachia that we find 
one of America’s strongest, most viable folk cultures. 
Folk culture has survived in Appalachia because large 
parts of it remained cut off from the progress the rest 
of the country enjoyed the first half of this century. 
There was a railroad across the plains and deserts to 
California by 1869; the railroad didn’t get to Hazard 
till 1912. The last twenty years have seen major changes 
in Appalachia, of course; you have to look hard for the 
folk culture now; there are new highways through the 
hills you have to get off of to find it. And looking for 
‘t you may get distracted by stock-car racing, or a stretch 
of strip-mined hillside. Appalachia’s worth studying, too, 
as a model of the awfulness that can happen to a place 
when the effective power over the land rests in the 
hands of absentee owners like coal and steel companies, 
or when most of the capacity for initiative is sat upon 
by an ass as fat as the federal bureaucracy. Appalachia 
was the first region to get undone in a wholesale way by 
automation. The worst consequences of thoughtless 
automation are in those hills, in the form of unemployed 
coal miners, and, again, of strip mining. But the main 
reason, and | think the best reason, to know about 
Appalachia, is happier than what I’ve said so far. As a 
place that’s been wiped out, the slate is clean there; at 
least the terms are very clear: aint no way to go but up. 
And there are some upward energies stirring, some new 
stuff trying to happen, an abundance of possibility, if 
not of probability. What there is mainly is a lot of blasted 
land, a kind of garbage heap of wasted land, that exists 
today as open space; it’s muddy space, but still it’s space; 
kind of the left-overs of a century of violent industrial 
practice. | haven’t seen any domes on strip-mined hillsides 
yet, but | can imagine them. | can imagine one sitting 
very neatly on the /ittle place where my great-grandfather 
had a farm once upon a time; where a major deep mine 
operated for 50 years; where strip-miners drove their 
bulldozers when the deep-mining was through; and where 
today there’s nothing but a wierd vine creeping like a 
fungus over the exposed sub-soil of his old farm, and 
thousands of surrounding acres. | can imagine that. 
And a good deal more. Oh man, can | imagine a good 
deal more. 
_GN 
_CROCFRY 
%, 
Stinking Creek 
John Fetterman 
1967; 192pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
E.P. Dutton & Co. Inc. 
201 Park Avenue South 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
This is the story of a 
Kentucky mountain community, and 
one of the very best books to come out of modern 
Appalachia, Written by a professional newspaperman with 
soul, Stinking Creek is one of the most honest books I’ve 
ever read. He avoids “evaluating hillbillies,”’ avoids playing 
the role of the expert. He respected the good people of 
Stinking Creek enough to simply listen to them, and let 
them tell their own story. 
: 
: 
Hear Frank Patterson, a retired miner: 
“| used to work in the mines. Lord, that was dangerous. My God, 
they got killed every day. Sometimes five and six a day. But people 
wasn’t gettin’ no other work. A man’d get killed; another’d take 
his place.” 
“Those lamps on your caps burned lard oil. They had a little ol’ 
wick, and the smoke stayed in your face all the time. We didn’t have 
no fans to clear the air out. Oncet we dug a channel straight up 
for fifty feet to the top of the ground. Then we put a furnace 
under the hole to burn coal in. 1t would make a draft and draw air 
through the drift mouth. If the air got heavy, you’d have to go 
to where the air was. Times, the air got so dead you couldn't get 
your breath, Oncet the air was gone, and the lamps was jest 
sparkin’ ‘stead of burning, | said, ‘Let's get out,’ and | run to the 
trapdoor. | was so weak | couldn’t open it. | lay down with my face 
against that door tryin’ to get me some air. | got to feelin’ better 
with that air, but | heered my buddy strugglin’ back in the 
coal vein, He was just about gone when | got to him, but! got him 
out of there.”” 
And Henry Brown, age 81: 
“My legs have give way and my eyes water so bad | can’t see,” 
Henry complains, But he can identify a mule several hundred 
yards down the road from his porch, ‘From my knees to my 
neck I’m sound as.a dollar. Feel like I’m sixteen in all that part of 
my body. But my head stays stopped up. | had a notion to go to 
Lexington and see one of them head specials. These doctors 
here know very little more than | do. One wanted to experiment 
on one of my girls. | said, ‘You experiment on one of your own 
girls, you want to experiment.’ 
“There's a heap of good healing stuff right here on this mountain. 
There ain't a weed on this globebut what's a benefit if you know 
where to put it.”’ He pointed a veined finger toward the slope 
behind his house. “Right thar’s a ragweed, You could be running off 
at your bowels. Nothing but water. You bile down those ragweed 
tops and make a tea. Drink half a cup. It'll stop. Blackberry roots do 
the same thing. A bowel complaint on anybody is well right off.’” 
“Hit's a weed around here—we call it niggerweed or sometimes 
iron blood. Dig the roots, It makes your iron blood, If you ain't 
got enough iron blood and get run down, you may have enough 
of the other blood but no iron blood, Brother, this niggerweed will 
put it in you. And swamp root, It’s good fer different things. Bile 
it down into a strong tea, and there stands the prettiest blue 
oil on top of that water you ever saw. It’s good for your kidneys. 
Bile it down good and strong.” 
“| tell you what | always wanted to eat—a big bow! full of clear 
grease and some biscuits. That was my main eatin’. But now | 
can’t eat no breakfast. Now, the biggest thing | live on is milk. 
| got a good cow. She’s a four-year-old blocky cow. | wouldn’t 
sell her fer no kind of money.” 
Kentucky, the Big Sandy and the Cumberland, they found 
‘ 
Night Comes To The Cumberlands 
Harry M. Caudill 
1963; 394pp. 
$6.75 postpaid 
from: 
Little, Brown and Company 
34 Beacon Street 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108 
(also available in paperback) 
This is the definitive biography of modern Appalachia, 
particularly the coal mining regions of West Virginia and 
Eastern Kentucky. Caudill is a descendant of people who 
came to the mountains before 1800. A lawyer and former 
— 
member of the Kentucky state legislature, he is the most 
eloquent and persistent voice of outrage against strip 
— 
ns 
mining, and the coal industry in general which has raped 
the Appalachian hills. Particularly interesting are the 
descriptions of life in the coal towns of Kentucky from 
the 1920's on. 
So immense was the coalfield and so roadless and rugged its 
terrain that the process of buying up the region’s wealth 
necessarily consumed considerable time. Commencing about 
1875 with the first roving timber buyers and their wildcat 
surveys, the task was not substantially complete until about 1910. 
By that year a major portion of the land was owned in fee simple by 
nonresidents. Perhaps three fourths of the remaining salable 
timber was held by absentee investors and at least 85 per cent 
of the minerals had passed out of the hands of the plateau 
af 
dwellers. Thus the stage was set for the most momentous single 
— 
occurrence in the history of the Cumberlands—the building of 
the railroads. After years of rumor and speculation, the iron 
horse was to intrude upon the ancient solitudes of this beautiful 
land. 
The mountaineer’s imagination was fired by this event as by 
nothing else that has befallen him in his long sojourn in the 
Southern highlands. He hoped that the much-touted railroads 
would bring many benefits. The income from the sale of his 
timber and coal, small though it was, had caused him to acquire 
a taste for things he could not make and which money alone 
could provide. His quickened appetite for ‘factory goods” 
remained, but his money was soon gone. Hence the boom 
Promised by industrial development offered hope for more such 
desirable things. Perhaps he and his sons could find jobs at 
high wages at sawmills or in mines. More and better schools might 
be built so his children could “larn somethin’,”’ the tempo of 
life would quicken and his drab existence would take on 
new. color and sparkle. The mountaineer had come to look 
forward to the new era for many reasons, but most ardently 
because he knew that his long isolation would be broken and the 
monotony of his ancient mode of living would be interrupted 
by new experiences. He was confident of his ability to profit 
from this new and startling event. Though he had known many 
hardships and his folk memories groped back through eras of 
toil, tears and blood, he had never known failure. His life, like 
those of his ancestors from the Piedmont and the Blue Ridge, 
Por 
had been lived in fiercely free independence, and when the gangs 
of track layers first poked into the long valleys of the 
: 
the essential physical environment of the plateau remarkably 
unaltered. Though millions of logs had been sent down the river 
and many coves were not growing corn instead of tulip poplars, 
— 
the changes wrought by such labors were not large and thousands 
of acres of still virgin timber persisted on every hand. But these 
outward appearances were deceptive. Now the trees that shaded 
~ 
him were no longer his property, and he was little more than a 
trespasser upon the soil ‘beneath his feet. 
