eben 
Miia 
tite 
aid 
ee 
hit 
ae 
dl 
0 
Life, Death, Karma 
My wife and | recently went through a sad unfolding of karma from 
which we have learned much. We hope that we can share some of 
our findings with W.E.C. and its readers. 
On June 19, my wife, then seven months 
and one week pregnant, 
began hemorrhaging. | took her to the hospital, fifty miles from 
here, and seven hours later, the doctors delivered our first child, a 
boy, by caesarean section. The infant was born with a severe res- 
piratory disorder, and dispite all out efforts by the doctors and 
‘ 
nurses, he died five days later. Needless to say, we were heartbroken 
and faced with the problem of a funeral. | called a friend, Anton 
Nelson, who had written a short piece for the W.E.C. supplement 
last spring on inexpensive burials. My wife and | were opposed to 
paying some unctuous professional from a funeral home to handle 
the burial of our baby. Anton advised me on the steps | needed to 
take and cautioned me that | should be prepared for the same “back- 
room professionalism’’ of the funeral director's job. Rather appre- 
hensively, | proceeded. 
‘ 
(1) Obtain certificate of death from the Bureau of 
Vital Statistics, have doctors fill in information and 
sign it. (Some doctors have these certificates in their 
_offices and complete them and send them to the Bur- 
eau of Vital Statistics.) 
(2) Return to the Bureau of Vital Statistics and obtain 
a permit to move the body. 
(3) Pick up the body at the hospital, (which | put ina 
plywood box | had built earlier) and take it to the 
crematorium. 
(4) In order to get a permit to dispose of the ashes, 
the crematorium needed the name of a cemetery where 
| was going to bury the ashes. 
(1 remembered the name 
of a cemetery where a cousin was buried and gave them 
that name. There was no further hassel.) 
A week later | picked up the ashes from the crematorium. The total 
cost was sixteen dollars to cremate the baby, and six dollars for six 
white roses, five of which were placed in the box with the baby and 
one given to my wife. 
| would like to add that at no point of the proceedings did | en- 
counter any hassel. | was usually asked what funeral home | was 
from, and when | replied that | was the father and was taking care 
of it myself, no one seemed to be shocked and everyone seemed to 
make an effort to help. There seemed to be a lot of respect for what 
| was doing. 
Last week a friend and | backpacked into the central High Sierra 
and strewed the ashes on top of Mt. Goddard. Thus ended our 
first experience with birth and our first 
experience with death. My 
wife and | hope this account will help others who may someday 
encounter this misfortune. 
Sincerely, 
Kip & Donna Hillman’ 
AN 
Oakhurst, Ca. fH} 
bi 
Sl 
. 
8 
ied 
Mle 
SSN Mp 
Babies At Home: A Calculated Risk 
LA 
Many situations in medicine involve attempts to balance 
ey 
the costs and benefits of one possible course of action or 
\ \ 
inaction against the costs and benefits of another possibility, 
and to choose the alternative with the lowest cost/benefit 
ratio. Unfortunately medicine has often ignored psychosocial 
benefits to the patient and over-emphasized personal benefits 
and convenience to the doctor. Child-bearing is one such 
situation: the psychic benefits to the whole family of being 
present at the birth of a new child has largely been ignored, 
while the convenience to nurses, anesthetists and doctors has 
_been over-emphasized. One result of this has been the 
“backlash’’ of interest in home deliveries, usually without 
the doctors approval, much less with his help. Without 
attempting to assess the psychic value or reduced economic 
cost of home deliveries, | would like to clarify some of the 
risk variables involved. 
In the best of situations, it can be expected that about 
| 3 to 4% of deliveries will result in either a stillbirth or a 
, child who dies during the first week of life. This figure can 
result in optimism—over 95% of women will have few 
problems—or pessimism—nearly one in twenty 
women will have prenatal death no matter how good their 
care. 
Because of this situation, such generalized statistics are 
worthless to the woman thinking of having her baby at home. 
Adding to the confusion is the knowledge that British and 
Dutch women routinely have their babies at home with 
apparent success judging by their lower overall infant 
mortality than ours. Their success however is dependent on 
the statistical knowledge of which situations are likely to 
be complicated—necessitating hospitalization and specialist 
care—and which,are very likely to be uncomplicated—nec- 
essitating only routine measures available to a midwife in 
the home. 
Steward Clifford, a leading expert on high-risk pregnancy, 
states: ‘‘it should be emphasized that in every case the 
identification 
of the high risk patient should be possible 
at the initial examination and at various times in the pre- 
natal course and before labor and delivery.” What are these 
risk factors and how can they be recognized? 
First there are demographic factors. Women over forty or 
first pregnancies over 35 are more risky than average. Low 
education levels and low income are also high risk factors, 
even when good medical care is obtained. 
Next is prior obstetric history: first births are higher risks 
as are fourth or greater. Infant mortality is high for patients 
with a previous abortion or ectopic (out of the womb) 
pregnancy; it is even higher if there is a history of previous 
premature births (weighing less than 5%Ibs.) and higher 
still for those women with a previous history of stillbirths 
| 
or neonatal deaths. A history of .a large baby (greater than 
nine pounds) or a baby requiring transfusion is also a danger 
signal. Prior high blood 
pressure, marked swelling of 
hands and ankles, or protein in the urine during a previous 
pregnancy are further cautions. 
Any woman with heart disease, diabetes (or a strong family 
history of diabetes) or any kidney disease should be followed 
closely by 
adoctor 
throughout pregnancy and delivery. 
During the pregnancy there are also warning signs which 
preclude home delivery. Without attempting to explain the 
disease entities involved, suffice it to:say that any vaginal 
bleeding after the first month of pregnancy (except very 
slight spotting or “show” at the beginning of labor) or any 
report of high blood pressure is sufficient to necessitate 
specialist care. 
As delivery approaches there are more clues, including 
rupture of the bag of waters before the onset of vigorous 
labor; labor beginning before the thirty-eighth -or after the 
forty-second week of pregnancy (counting from the first 
day of the last menstrual period). If nothing has gone 
wrong up to the onset of labor, but labor has progressed 
for eight hours without births being immanent, this is 
another indication to rush to the hospital. 
In summary, if you are between twenty and thirty years 
of age, a high school graduate with a fair income and good 
nutrition, with one or two but not more than three previous 
uncomplicated births, and no medical problems, you might 
begin to consider home delivery as an acceptable risk. 
Your first step toward success is to have adequate prenatal 
care (mortality is much higher for women without prenatal 
care, mainly because of avoidable complications) beginning 
no later than the third month of pregnancy. You will still 
not be completely safe from unexpected complications, but 
you will have reduced the risk 
to proportions where the 
benefits to you and your family from home delivery may— 
for some families—be great enough to make these risks 
acceptable. But to fail to reduce the risks through prenatal 
care or to ignore any danger signal is to not only invite 
disaster, but also to bear the responsibility of knowing you 
didn’t do all you could to avoid the disaster. 
Bruce Ferguson, 
M.D. 
Fe & 
Ny 
LN 
ih 
ao 
a 
y 
‘asensury 
st 
H 
NIAU) 
- ‘yr 
adsa 
