Rambling Rabbit Rap 
I spent most of this past summer with a farmer friend of mine who 
raises rabbits as a main source of table meat for his family. Six 
does and a buck kept in hutches at the edge of the garden provide 
regular meat for his family of four. Other than the heavy work of 
removing the manure as it accumulates, the rabbits are in the care 
of my friend’s twelve-year old daughter, who feeds and waters them 
as part of her daily chores. Her father does the slaughtering as the 
young rabbits mature. The meat is kept in the freezer, and eaten at 
the rate of about one, sometimes two, a week. 
I'd tasted wild rabbit before, but I didn’t remember much about 
it, except that the occasion was loaded with an atmosphere of 
muted guilt, or at least an uncomfortable degree of 
self-conscious- 
ness. I was a kid at the time and I don’t remember who the adults 
were, cooking and serving the meat. But I do remember the almost 
compulsive talk that went on among them about how wild rabbits 
were sometimes dangerous to eat, about how we probably ought 
not be eating this one, but let’s just take a bit of him anyway, and 
see. I took my bite, but what I tasted was the general misgivings 
about the whole thing. And those misgivings stayed in my head 
for 25 years, until this very summer when we were eating rabbit 
as a regular staple. 
About 40-million pounds 
of rabbit meat are consu- 
med in the United States 
each year. 
& 
SEP 
Flemish Giant 
New Zealand Black (right) 
“Ruby-Eyed White Polish (left) 
Rabbit Raising 
The quotes on this page are from Rabbit Raising, a book/et published by the 
Boy Scouts of America as part of its Merit Badge Series. The booklet is cheap 
And it was great! It was at least as good as fried chicken, and may- 
be even alittle better, depending on whose chicken you’ve been 
eating. My friend said that as far as the work of meat-production 
and packed with good information, charts, diagrams. RD and JL Hamilton say 
Rabbit Raising 
is concerned, rabbits are far less trouble to keep than chickens. 
the whole series (astronomy, beef production, farm management, leatherwork, 
He keeps chickens, but mainly for the eggs. (He raises beef and 
etc.) is good. See their say on Boy Scout manuals elsewhere, this issue. 
$0.45 
pork too, as well as a fantastic organic garden, all on twelve rather 
: 
hilly acres. Working together, he and his wife and their two child- 
from: 
ren come as close as anyone I know to total organic self-sufficiency). 
Boy Scouts of America 
New Brunswick, New Jersey 
We talked some about the question of animal slaughter, of killing 
If you have bought a young pair, you will have 
to keep them apart for a few months, until they 
are old enough to be mated. On the average, rab- 
bits of the smaller breeds may be bred when 5 
or 6 months-old; medium-weight breeds should 
be 7 months old; and giant breeds, 
9 months 
old. Does more than 4 years of age are too old 
to be mated. 
The doe should always be taken to the buck’s 
hutch. She probably will not allow any other 
rabbit in her own hutch, and will go so far as 
to fight the buck. Bucks, too, are timid about 
being in a strange hutch. (If you intend to raise 
more than one litter, one buck will be enough 
for up to 10 does. However, do not use the 
buck more than two or three times a week.) 
After the buck is finished, he will fall over on 
You can test your doe from the 14th to 16th 
day after mating to see whether she is pregnant 
by ‘‘palpating’’—that is, feeling for the devel- 
oping young. Hold her ears and the fold of 
skin over her shoulders in your right hand; 
put your left hand under the body between 
the hindlegs and slightly in front of the pelvis. 
Move the hand gent/y forward and backward. 
The embryos will be easy to distinguish as 
they slip between the thumb and fingers. Cau- 
tion must be used that neither doe nor young 
are injured. 
Certain chores must be done on specified days 
after the mating date. For instance, on the 27th 
day the nest box should be placed in the hutch. 
other creatures to feed on them. He said that in the beginning he 
had some trouble killing his rabbits, but that he finally overcame 
it when he quit thinking of them as “bunnies” and looked upon 
them as simply a source of protein. That attitude will no doubt 
trouble the more committed vegetarians; but not many farmers 
putting in 10 and 12 hours work a day are vegetarians. If a rabbit 
isa fellow being, so is acorn stalk, Creatures eat creatures. Some 
day worms will eat us all, and whatever debt we may owe the 
carbon-nitrogen cycle will no doubt then be paid in full, 
So went our dialogue. Or one chapter of it, anyway. One of the 
great things about the summer on the farm was the kind of running 
conversation we had, picking up. hours and even days later where 
the talk left off before. Farmers certainly work a good deal more 
than they talk, but when. they do talk, it’s grand to listen in. The 
language of men working together in a field is a rare and special 
thing. Men who work together, summer after summer, for years, 
have a common body of lore, a mutual frame of reference that 
underlies everything they say. When its best is when the words 
begin from a concrete subject, rise into a grand abstraction, con- 
volute a‘time-or two then return to-earth again, Our talk about 
rabbits was like that. We talked about them as “bunnies,” against 
his side. 
E 
_Pack the box 3 inches high with clean straw, 
i 
free of weeds and other foreign material. The 
; 
doe will arrange the nest and line it with fur 
from her own body. If she fails to pull enough 
fur to cover her litter, you can do it for her. 
Pluck some gently from her side or hips—it 
will come out easily and make a soft bed. 
rabbits as food to eat. That got us into talk about the esoteric 
loveliness of a 
wagon wheel as a thing you paint and display in 
your front yard, against the loveliness of a wheel on an actual 
wagon that’s helping you do the work necessary to your livelihood. 
Then we got into the difference between vocation and avocation, 
of the unhappiness that comes when a person’s play is too far re- 
moved from his work. Raising rabbits is play, it’s fun, a hobby. 
But it can also be work, good, productive work of the kind that 
¥ 
contributes to health and vigor by getting good home-grown food 
Litters range from 6 to 18 young, depending 
aM 
upon the breed, age of the doe, and the season. 
The ideal number to leave for the mother to 
wean is seven. If you have two or more does 
kindling at the same time, litters can be bal- 
anced by taking youngsters from one mother 
and giving them to another on the first or se- 
cond day after they are born. When the young 
are no more than 2 days old, neither doe will 
mind the transfer. 
And so we got into the organic life as an ideal, alife in which 
_ 
opposites like “work” and “‘play” are reconciled. When your life 
is one of daily, personal “‘creation,”’ of work that satisfies like 
play does, you’re less in need of purchased, artificial re-creation. 
The average industrial worker does a job he hates in order to buy 
the things he loves, like food, and entertainment. His vocation ts 
one thing, his avocation another, and. never the twain shall meet. 
This split ultimately leads to the deadly division between city 
and country. Andin the same way the modern vocation, or indus- 
trial job, is deadly to the individual worker’s creative spirit, the 
city has become the deadly enemy of the countryside. To satisfy 
the appetites of the city, the countryside is pillaged by industrial, 
mechanized farms for food and strip mines for fuel for electric 
+ 
power. How neurotic, how divided our culture against itself! 
Siamese Satin and Litter 
Books About Rabbit Raising 
Domestic Rabbit Production, 
George S. Templeton 
I Choose Rabbits, E.H. Stall 
Raising Rabbits, Farmers’ Bulletin No 
No, 2131, Div. of Publications, 
Plan to build and place your hutches 
so you don’t have to handle the rabbits 
too much. Build them as simply as poss- 
ible, so that they can be cleaned easily 
and kept clean, and will allow light and 
fresh air without admitting drafts and 
And thus we came to the question, can the lowly rabbit possibly 
come to the rescue? We decided it could. Rabbits can be raised in 
any back yard, as food, primarily; but they can also be raised as a 
metaphor of a new and simultaneously old possibility, the possi- 
Office of Information, Dept. 
winds. 
bility of cottage economy. They can be raised as a metaphor of 
of Agriculture, Wash. D.C. 20505 
opposites reconciled, of cultural schizophrenia overcome. They 
20505 
F 
can stand as an image of country stuff happening in town, of town 
style stretched to embrace country substance, of work become play 
and play become work, which, after all, is not far from Adam and 
Eve’s set-up in the Original Garden. I don’t plan to hold my breath 
till the Golden Age arrives. But I_-do plan to raise some rabbits 
in my suburban backyard this year, and to eat the little morsels 
one by one when they are grown. 
A rabbit is usually slaughtered by dislocating its neck.or by hitting it on the back of the head 
with a stick. To dislocate its neck, hold the animal by the hind-legs with your left hand, plac- 
ing the thumb of the right hand on the neck, just back of the ears, the four fingers extended 
under his chin. Push down on the neck with the right hand, stretching the animal, at the same 
time pressing down with your thumb, and raising its head with a quick movement. 
Magazines 
National 
Rabbit Raiser, 241 W. 
Snelling Ave., Appleton, 
Minn, 56208 
Small Stock Magazine, P.O, Box 
36830 
| 
Additional Booklets 
C omnrercial Rabbit Raising, 
USDA Handbook No. 309, 70 
es, 
July 1966, Supt. of Doc- 
ps 
ge 
: 
ee was D.C. 30402, 
As soon as the skin is removed, it should be placed on a stretcher and hung up to dry. After 
30 cents. 
: 
the rabbit has been skinned, make a slit down the belly, starting at the tail, Remove the en- 
é 
trails, but leave the liver in place; then take out the gall bladder. Remove the right hind foot 
by cutting it off at the hock. 
: Common Diseases of Domestic 
Care should be taken not to get hairs on the skinned rabbit; hairs are hard to remove and give 
: 
Rabbits, USDA Bulletin No. 
the meat a dirty appearance. Rinsing the body in cold water cleans the carcass and makes it 
F., Pierce City, Mo. 65723 
Next, hang the dead rabbit on a hook, piercing the right hindleg between the tendon and bone 
—GN 
TEES 
ia 
Nees 
just above the hock. Remove its head immediately and allow it to bleed, so that the meat will 
CEERI 
BETTE es 
Nee 
have a good color. Remove the tail, the free rear leg at the hock joint, and the front feet. Cut 
: 
the skin just below the hock of the right leg and open it on the inside of the leg to the root 
of the tail, continuing the incision 
to the hock of the left leg. Carefully separate the edges of 
the skin from the body, but be sure to leave all fat on the carcass, and pull the skin down over 
the animal. A clean skin, free of fat, is easier to dry, and leaves the meat firm and attractive. 
Rabbit Production, USDA Bulle- 
tin No. 1730, 1950, 20 cents 
45-3 
easier to remove hair and blood. Don’t soak it for more than 15 minutes. 
English Angora 
