FIVE VISIONS 
The Teachings of Don Juan 
Carlos Castaneda 
2 
1968; 276pp. 
$0.95 postpaid 
- 
from: 
Ballantine Books, Inc. 
101 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
He listened without interrupting me. | talked for along time. Then he 
said: 
‘ 
J 
“All this is very easy to understand. Fear is the first natural enemy 
aman must overcome on his path to knowledge. Besides, you are 
curious. That evens up the score. And you will learn in spite of 
yourself; that’s the rule.” 
| protested for a while longer, trying to dissuade him. But he 
seemed to be convinced there was nothing else | could do but 
learn. 
“Y ou are not thinking in the proper order,” he said. ‘‘Mescalito 
actually played with you. That's the point to think about. Why 
don’t you dwell on that instead of your fear?” 
“Was it so unusual?” 
“You are the only person | have ever seen playing with him. You 
are not used to this kind of life; therefore the indications 
[omens] 
bypass you. Yet you are a serious person, but your seriousness is 
attached to what you do, not to what goes on outside you. You 
dwell upon yourself too much. That's the trouble. And that produces 
a terrible fatigue.” 
Don Juan suddenly changed the direction of the conversation and 
bluntly confronted me with the idea that | liked the devil's weed. 
| had to admit that | had at least a preference for it. He asked me 
how | felt about his ally, the smoke, and ! had to tell him that 
just the idea of it frightened me out of my senses. 
“| have told you that to choose a path you must be free from fear 
and ambition. But the smoke blinds you with fear, and the devil’s 
weed blinds you with ambition.” 
| argued that one needs ambition even to embark on any path, and 
that his statement that one had to be free from ambition did not 
make sense. A person has to have ambition in order to learn. 
“The desire to learn is not ambition,” he said, ‘It is our lot as 
men to want to know, but to seek the devil’s weed _ is to bid for 
power, and that is ambition, because you are not bidding to know. 
Don’t let the devil's weed blind you. She has hooked 
you already. 
She entices men and gives them a sense of power; she makes them 
feel they can do things that no ordinary man can. But that is 
her trap. And, the next thing, the path without a heart will turn 
against men and destroy them. |t does not take much to die, and 
to seek death is to seek nothing.” 
Book of the Hopi 
Frank Waters, Oswald White Bear Fredericks 
1963; 423pp 
$1.25 postpaid 
from: 
Ballantine Books, Inc. 
101 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
/f you’re susceptible to tarot or astrology, you'll probably 
revel in this book. Its business is the esoteric lore and 
historical drama which lives and protects the Hopi Indians 
in Arizona. They were possibly the farthest out of the 
American tribes (in present times they are not as together as 
Zuni, or Taos, but they are larger and so is what they 
attempted). This is the mysticism not of change but of 
stability, of the year cycle, of one more winter of food 
obtained by the hard knowledge from uncounted prior 
generations of winters and, they say, travels from world to 
world and place to place to arrive finally at the center, 
these bleak mesas, to here sustain forever responsibility for 
the well-being of the world. Frank Waters was perhaps too 
eager to write a Bible, but | can’t blame him. It’s that kind 
of knowledge. 
facet 
male atick 
fernale atich 
So the people’ emerged to the Second World. Its name was Tokpa 
Dark Midnight 
. Its direction was south, its color blue, its mineral 
qochasiva, silver. Chiefs upon it were salavi, the spruce; kwahu, 
the eagle; and kolichiyaw, the skunk. 
It was a big land, and the people multiplied rapidly, spreading over 
it to all directions, even to the other side of the world. This did 
not matter, for they were so close together in spirit they could 
see and talk to each other from the center on top of the head. 
Because this door was still open, they felt close to Sotuknang 
and they sang joyful praises to the Creator, Taiowa. 
They did not have the privilege of living with the animals, though, 
for the animals were wild and kept apart. Being separated from 
the animals, the people tended to their own affairs. They built 
homes, then villages and trails between them. They made things 
with their hands and stored food like the Ant People. Then they 
began to trade and barter with one another. 
This was when the trouble started. Everything they needed was on 
this Second World, but they began to want more. 
Parrot Clan maiden 
sitting on a plaque of 
seeds during 
Soyal 
Ritual. 
Black Elk Speaks 
John G. Neihardt (Flaming Rainbow) 
1961; 28pp. 
$1 .50 postpaid 
from: 
University of Nebraska Press 
901 N. 17th Street 
Lincoln, Nebraska 68508 
The Pueblo tribes don’t go in for visionary solitary mystical 
whizbangs. (Of all of them only Taos Is into peyote very 
much.) The plains tribes are something else however. Their 
lives turned on their visions—solo manhood transports, 
dreams, name visions, sun dance ordeals, battle ecstasy, 
doctoring sessions... and later, ghost dance and peyote. 
This book is the power vision of one Oglala Sioux, and the 
extraordinary man it made. Black Elk’s account, besides 
affording unusual insight into Sioux life and historical 
figures such as Crazy Horse, demonstrates the manner of 
recognizing a serious vision and being responsible for it, 
and the burden, joy and power of doing that. 
; 
.. .Then | was standing on the highest mountain of them all, and 
round about beneath me was the whole hoop of the world.8 And 
while | stood there | saw more than | can tell and | understood more 
than | saw; for | was seeing in a sacred manner the shapes of all 
things in the spirit, and the shape of all shapes as they must live 
together like one being. And | saw that the sacred hoop of my 
people was one of many hoops that made one circle, wide as day- 
light and as starlight, and in the center grew one mighty flowering 
tree to shelter all the children of one mother and one father. And 
| saw that it was holy. 
8Black Elk said the mountain he stood upon in his vision was Harney. 
_ Dope and power, or po wers, is a beguiling treacherous road 
that the children of the Europeans are suddenly on—with 
ambitions often that are strange to the road. /t is as if we 
Peak, in the Black Hills. “But anywhere is the center of the world,” 
he added. 
® 
‘had discovered, now, the subtle con tinent of America, and 
a 
z 
P 
. 
€ 
h 
as 
5 
a 
were proceeding once again to explore and subdue it without 
cantatas 
When a vision comes from the thunder beings of the west, it comes 
regard for native occupancy and native wisdom. If heeded, 
meet ene 
with terror like a thunder storm; but when the store of vision has 
this book carhelp to allay the trespass. 
Don Juan’s way to knowledge is the lonliest and hardest 
I’ve heard of, approaching Buddha’s for austerity and 
erior hardship. /t uses drugs to plunge directly into 
attle with oneself, without any promise of ecstatic re- 
wards, without even the companionship and familiar ritual 
of the peyote meeting. All Don Juan gives his student is 
challenges, paradoxes, and bone-dry advice on how to 
gnize what's going on and how to get further 
lown the road into profounder difficulties. 
! 
1 Castaneda’s case, the student is as admirable to me as 
the teacher. His research was courageous and original; the 
ting is practically transparent. 
yee = 
Te 
\) 
K Bieri x 
Figure 55- Male-and-female paho 
Every paho, simple or complex, is made with prayerful concentration 
and ritually smoked over. Then it is carried 
to ashrine, where it is 
stuck in a cleft of rocks or hung on a bush and left until the invisible 
vibrations of the prayer it embodies are slowly absorbed by the forces 
of life to which it is dedicated. 
if 
passed, the world is greener and happier; for wherever the truth of 
vision comes upon the world, it is like a rain. The world, you see, is 
happier after the terror of the storm. 
You have noticed that the truth comes into this world with two 
faces. One is sad 
with suffering, and the other laughs; but it is the 
same face, laughing or weeping. When people are already in despair, 
maybe the laughing face is better for them; and when they feel 
too good and are too sure of being safe, maybe the weeping face 
is better for them to see. 
e 
f 
| think | have told you, but if | have not, you niust have understood, 
that a man who has a vision is not able to use the power of it until 
_ after he has performed the vision on earth for the people to see. 
