& 
: 
Women in Communes 
“In education, in marriage, in everything, disappointment is the 
lot of women, It shall be the business in my life to deepen this 
disappointment in every woman's heart until she bows down to it 
no longer.”’. 
—.Lucy Stone, 1855. 
: 
The first time | picked up an ax, | felt a sense of failure. Twenty-two 
years of inactivity, a few isolated attempts—pretending to paint the 
house with water while my brother, who was only a year older 
than I, did the real job; or being told to do the dishes instead of 
mowing the lawn. 
What | have learned about the ax is true of most kinds of physical 
work; use your head, and the ax does the work for you. | learned to 
hit the log first at one angle, then at another, forging a “’V"’ into 
the trunk. | learned that the thicker the log, the wider the angle 
had to be; that the ax should come down of its own weight, 
guided by the hands, and that the arms and body should follow 
through, just as in swinging a baseball bat. The first day it was 
hard work—I kept missing the log, and | got tired 
very easily. The 
second day was not so bad. Now I’m no longer afraid of the ax. 
There are different kinds of weakness—the kind that grows in the 
mind, the kind that the body feels if it never has been used—and 
the weakness of bullshitting yourself by assuming you can't do 
something. 
The world we live in moves so incredibly fast that it is very easy to 
avoid asking what we can do, and more important, what we like 
to do. Conditioned we are—for instance, any woman who lives in 
the city can pretty well write off needing to use an ax. And most 
white middle class women (and men) assume that such 
activity 
is beyond the scope of women’s potential, calmly ignoring the 
trusty old pioneer women, the women in rural areas who still 
chop wood every day—and even the ones who live in the less 
affluent part of the city, who more often than not work a hard 
day to earn a wage that barely supports a family, then work as 
their own house-keepers for no pay and no recognition. The assump- 
tion that women are ‘‘weak things’’ is a middle class luxu ry. For 
lower class women, the opposite myth is more convenient—women 
are good at tedious (and physically difficult) shit work. 
Certain taskshave to be done every day in nearly every living 
situation (although we often exaggerate addenda into the essential; 
furniture wax is both a luxury and acruel oppression:), but this. 
world never offers a us chance to “‘start again,’ with a lump of 
labor and a group of undifferentiated human beings, so that 
everyone can decide what he or she really prefers to do, and in the 
process become not just man or women, but human. 
Something approximating such a chance occurred this summer for 
asmall group of people living on a farm commune. There were 
twelve 
of us, give or take a few, for most of the summer, doing 
work which consisted of planting, weeding, pulling trees, and 
harvesting, as well as chopping wood, cooking over an open fire, 
washing clothes, and keeping the tents and the camp clean. There 
From Sara 
Dear Friends (I was going to say ‘‘sisters’! but got 
embarrassed by the vocabulary. Just like | can’t say “right 
On” without feeling like Time magazine) 
The gears are sort of shifting.around and this letter is mostly 
process, a working out of the things that’ve been on my 
mind since | read (and gratefully, to thank you ) your back 
pages in the July catalog. 
Some things: 
; 
1) Yeah, | guess maybe one of the main reasons why | can‘t 
; 
stand hippies is that they seem to be out to prove, with-a 
vengeance, that male chauvinism isn’t dead, In the 
commune, or street scene, or whatever, if it isn’t, ‘Hey, 
Chick, get me a cuppa coffee,’’ 
it’s ‘Women are really 
closer to nature—they’re gentle and intuitive (he means 
“dumb’’), soft, good with animals, children, etc. 
.. Women 
really know where it’s at (he means ‘‘They know their 
place’’)’". Their place, in hip society, is straight out of 
pioneer days—women bake bread, sew, weave, cook, clean, 
shut up, and serve the menfolk. Sure they like it. Sure 
that’s ‘the natural way’ Uh huh. The niggers were happy 
_ on the plantations, too. 
Sources For Info, Materials, Groups 
CHICAGO WOMEN'S LIBERATION UNION, 2875West Cermack Rd., Chicago, II|. 60623; 
312-927-1790, is a coalition of over-thirty Chicago-area women’s liberation groups. 
CRIMKE-BROWN COALITION, c/o Carol June, 40 North Ashland Ave., Chicago, III. 
60607, or Frank Adams, 214 East Clay St., Richmond, Va, 23219 (co-chairpeople), is an 
information exchange center and talent bank working to link groups and individuals in 
the feminist and anti-racist movement. 
NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN, Southern California Branch, 9601 Wilshire 
Bivd., #22, Beverly Hills, Ca. 90210, published a newsletter each month about their 
struggle to end sexual discrimination in the professions: cost, $5.00 a year. 
- NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN, P.O. Box 114, New York, N.Y. 10025; 
212-663-1686, is currently most concerned with issues regarding employment discrim- 
ination for women, and legislative things such as the equal rights ammendment. They 
are also active in abortion law repeal. 
NEW ENGLAND FREE PRESS, 791 Fremont St., Boston, Ma. 02118, has printed a wide 
was no running water, which made housekeeping chores a little 
more difficult, and no electricity, which meant that some of the 
work, like washing the dinner dishes, was usually done in the 
dark. 
Even though there was no society-dictated division of labor, even 
though we had complete freedom to determine the division of 
labor 
for ourselves, a well-known pattern emerged immediately. 
Women did most of the cooking, all of the cleaning up, and of 
course, the washing. They also worked in the fields all day—so that 
after the farm work was finished, the men could be found sitting 
around talking and taking naps while the women prepared supper. 
In addition to that, one of the women remained in camp every day 
in order to 
cook lunch—it was always 
awoman_ 
who did this, 
never aman. Of course, the women were excused from some of the 
tasks; for example, none of us ever drove the tractor, That was 
considered too complicated for a woman. We never would have had 
to haul wood or chop it if we hadn‘t wanted to. 
Does this story sound exaggerated? | think it is true that even men 
who verbally condone the liberation of women would tend to react 
the same way in a similar situation, as the result of conditioning. 
It is true that to some extent our group was free of the dictates of 
society last summer—but of course we weren’t free fof our cultural 
conditioning, which exists outside the society’s institutions, and is, 
in fact, embodied in the individual. The men in our group were 
exhibiting a collective system of belief based on early training. 
The women, too, had much to overcome, and we had to consciously 
organize ourselves to face the oppressive 
conditions which we 
were partially responsible for creating. We were a minority, and 
most of us were unattached; we were all between the ages of 
fifteen and twenty-four; all of us had thought and read, in varying 
degrees, about the problems which 
women face. We began 
holding private caucusses in the woods, far enough from camp so 
that we could feel free from any stray masculine ears. These meetings 
were not held in secret, though we said little about them, but they 
were considered a declaration of war by the men in camp, and in 
a sense we considered them a sign of secession from the normal order 
of life as pre-determined by the men, and by our own maimed 
outlooks. 
In the meetings we discussed day to day experiences in the camp, 
related them to what we had gleaned from the past and the condi- 
tion of women in general, and began to educate ourselves by 
reading and sharing general knowledge. Our strategy was a total 
re-orientation of our images of what we could and could not do. 
One of our tactics was complete non-response to hostility on the 
part of the men. We had to learn to differentiate between legitimate 
attempts to discuss women’s liberation, and sheer harassment. To the 
the former we would willingly respond; the latter met with neutral 
silence. In order to forcibly shift the division of labor, we began 
doing other chores around dinner time. Collecting and chopping 
wood was an activity which was often neglected in the course of 
the day, so after our regular farm work, we would turn to the 
wood instead of the pots. We tried to discover and do things that 
2) Women-as-Artists 
| feel pretty competent in my crafts—photography and 
videotape; and as a word artist—but | had to take a lot of 
shit to get there. It’s just an incredible drain on creative 
energy to have to be on the defensive all the time. 
3) Which is how I’m sounding—defensive and bitter and 
vengeful; | don’t want it that way. God knows, it’s gonna 
be no big improvement just to have women in charge for 
a change, the way we lust after power and give every 
indication that we'll abuse it in the same way men have. 
It's like thinking revolution means the Democrats win 
instead of the Republicans. 
Together we humans have got to come up with some better 
way of running things. Like cooperation, maybe. (Or 
prayer, if it gets that desperate .. 
. think about it—what 
sex is God?) 
Love, 
Sara Miles 
34 Sparkhill Ave. 
Tappan, NY 10983 
hey, | would really like to hear from anyone who feels 
like corresponding. 
needed to be done for the maintenance of the camp—building 
rather than cleaning. 
If a tense situation arose, where a sister was uncertain how to react, 
there was usually another sister nearby, and a smile, 
ahand on the 
arm, or just the knowledge of concern, helped everyone keep 
calm, We felt that consistency and complete discipline in regard 
to our willingness to work were of utmost significance in showing 
the males that our intent was not to humiliate them, but to work 
toward a more healthy environment for everyone concerned. 
Our experiment was a colossal failure. |n analyzing what went 
wrong, it is probably unfair to place the blame on the men’s inability 
to understand. Yet, as a woman, that is the only conclusion | can 
come to. a lot of dusty old myths were dragged out and shoved in 
our faces. 
. 
. you don’t work fast enough; 
aman can’t even geta 
~ 
decent meal-around this place unless he cooks it for himself; 
before you 
learn to drive a tractor, learn to get the dishes clean 
(| don’t want you fucking with my tractor, baby); is there something 
wrong with your sex life? you want to be just !ike 
aman... 
For several weeks we lived in two separate camps. |f we went 
gathering wood at dinner time, the men cooked—for themselves 
only. They washed their own dishes, but never the pots and pans 
that the food had come from. In the field we were a separate 
women’s brigade—all day we worked together and talked liberation, 
separate from the men. 
Those were happy days! Left alone, we taught ourselves, feeling 
free to be clumsy at first, knowing that we wouldn't laugh at each 
other. | think we all began to develop confidence in our ability to 
do things, and my own physical endurance increased tremendously — 
! had no reason to let a man take over, ever. | think my sisters and 
| learned to love and value each other as women seldom can when 
they are divided from each other and forced to compete for 
recognition by the men in their lives—forced to compete much in 
the same way that capitalism forces men to compete against each 
other. In each case, it is the best position in the pecking arder 
that determines how people act toward each other. 
The fact that half of the women involved with the farm commune 
project are no longer there, and that the other half are consciously 
compromising in order to insure the succes of the farm, is a testimony 
of the 
long fight which we all face. The inability of men to respond 
to our attempts to liberate ourselves seems to be an indication that 
now is the time to isolate, to learn, to build, and if necessary, 
when we have the strength, to force a change that must come if 
we are to be free. Cultural change, through the breaking of boundary 
conditions on behavior, will have to occur, and can only occur, 
through a conscious re-orientation of our own self-images. 
By Kit Leder 
Originally Published in 
Women: A Journal of Liberation 
(for access see Sources below) 
REEDS 
j-d.’s grandpa says, “when you find biscuit dough 
on the ax-handle, you know the honeymoon is 
oy 
over. 
as 
re 
- 
+ 
~ 
: 
i 
pee 
(ia 
eek g 
j 
; 
> 
“ 
pias. 
nee 
j 
‘\ 
; 
ef 
SDN 
) 
7 
ee 
)* 
wD) (Shes 
9 
a5 
ed ty Senet: 
i 
i 
; 
isd) 
“He: Why don’t you come up to my place 
and see my whole grains?” 
BSE 
WOMEN: A BIBLIOGRAPHY, c/o Lucinda Cisler, 
102 West 80th St., New York, NY 
10024, isa 16 page annotated reading list. |t is divided into 14 catagories and was 
revised in September, 1969. Costs are 25 cents per copy, $2.25 for ten, and $5.50 per 
thirty. Foreign orders please pay in US currency, and add postage to cover air or surface 
costs. Each copy weighs one ounce. 
WOMEN: A JOURNAL OF LIBE RATION, 3011 Guilford Ave., Baltimore, Md. 21218, is 
published five times a year; each issue explores a different aspects of Women’s Liberation. 
Subscription rates; $1.25 for a single issue, or $5.00 a year. 
WOMEN’S HISTORY RESEARCH CENTER, INC., 2325 Oak St., Berkeley, Ca. 94708; 
415-524-7772, is a research lending, corresponding, and selling library of women’s 
literature: books, periodicals, pamphlets, articles, tapes, etc. 
A running catalog includes 
addresses where information is available at cost from other groups so you won't have to 
Start from scratch. A synopsis of women in world history is available for $1.00 including 
postage; information on the suffrage movement in Western Europe is 15 cents to individuals 
individuals, 20 cents to institutions. 
selection of pamphlets on women’s liberation, among them: The Politics of Housework, 
Female Liberation as a Basis for Social Revolution, Psychology Constructs the Female, 
and many others. They cost about 15 cents per pamphlet. 
SOUTHERN FEMALE RIGHTS UNION, Box 30087, Lafayette Square Station, New 
Orleans, La. 70130, wants to work as a center coordinating women’s work in the South. 
WASHINGTON, D.C. WOMEN’S LIBERATION, Box 13098, Washington, D.C. 20009, 
is a distribution center for the Women’s Liberation Movement. 
vag 
. 
ras 
‘ 
~ 
= 
- 
Sate 
—s 
WOMEN'S LIBERATION NEWSLETTER, PO Box 116, Cambridge, Ma. 02138 
. 
.. 
it’s 
exactly what it says it is! 
—From Vocations for Social Change 
Sept.-Oct., 1970 
Published bi-monthly 
Canyon, California 94516 (415) 376-7743 
