Japan, Hong Kong, Australia 
30 July 70 
‘ 
Steve, 
OK. Japan is wonderful. Very creepy sometimes—they want 
nuclear weapons—everybody WORKS constantly—bushido 
is eastern machismo—everybody obeys. They’ve got 1980- 
2020 control of the planet just about sewed up, and I say, 
They’re welcome to it. We lived in an old-style house in 
Kyoto with people who know how, where I could glimpse 
some of the craft-of-living they’re into. Exquisite. Living 
and structure indistinguishable. I felt Americans were 
brutal clods. (Until visiting an architect in Hawaii—house 
alot like a barn, with big blowing landscape, cloudscape, 
bambooscape—felt fine. 
In barns reposes any American 
genius of building—minus architects, naturally.) The most 
revealing event in Japan was a visit to a skin theater near 
the Zen Temple of Daitokoji. The girls (every other one 
is a bleached blond) prance to top-40 tunes and then come 
and spread their legs 10” from your face and talk sassy. 
Everybody peers in—young students are most of the 
audience. One girl was terrific, also gutsy actress. The last 
one had no vagina (cropped boy?): very cruel Theater. 
The whole event was like an x-ray of Japanese manners. 
Staying with Richard and Virginia Baker, besides enjoyable, 
was a course in operational Zen Buddhism. Lovely if I 
could ever find the hand in me that matches the Zen 
handle: it’s an opener alright. 
: 
Expo is just another tiring Expo. The only thrill I’ve ever 
gotten at any expo was Labyrinthe at Montreal. J apanese 
have close-packing down cold. They do more with less 
space than anybody—more rice per acre, more comfortable 
people per house, more sales per market, name it. Awesome. 
They just take the trouble to fiddle endlessly with, say, one 
tomato plant until it feeds five families. They even have 
more lethal pollution—some street corners in Tokyo are 
unbelievable. All futurists should do time in J apan. 
Hong Kong was my first visit to being white in a British 
colony. Inexpensive plush. A sensational breakfast served 
by five-six Chinese who are putting in 12-16 hour days. I 
didn’t investigate the economy at all, but it looked labor 
exploitive. Lois loved it, me too—it was all the niceness 
that Las Vegas fails miserably at, a genuine aristocratic 
niche. | dislike its existence, but I’ll bet there always is 
some'in the world. Hong Kong makes me think that. 
The harbor is sure enough gorgeous mountain—surrounded 
crowded. 
Exciting on a boat—every craft in the world 
going every which way. The freighters moor out in the 
_ middle and get unloaded by funky big motor-junks with 
- 
the whole family living and working on board. Some noble 
sights of girl-at-helm up against traffic, currents and 
weather. Tropical rain and sun keep flashing by, blowing 
handsome toward CHINA hulking just over there. 
Energy edge. Hong Kong. 
Australia was a downer for us—not all Australia’s fault. We 
| 
were tired. It was winter. The 
guy we visited in Sydney was 
heavy political French hate-America. He worked us over, 
and Australia over; no rest for the wicked. 
Australia—this is 5-day expertise—is tight-ass politically and 
culturally. Education is distrusted. Lottery and football 
clubs occupy a lot of consciousness. Immigration is sought 
energetically, and selectively (non-white need not apply). 
Natural resource land-fuck is in progress, largely at the 
hands of Japanese and Texans; Australians 
still lack capital 
to do their own industrial added-value work. Immense areas 
of land—if you want to buy 100 square miles, Australia’s 
your meat. 
Dave and Jean Evans 
are in Adelaide (on the south east 
coast), which is described by some Australians as Cemetary- 
with-lights A planned city. Felt like early 50’s; Minneapolis 
maybe. Looked like California land, eucalyptus trees and 
all. 
Dave's job is helping guide some new changes and money 
for the aborigines, with one eye.on US mistakes with the 
_ Indians. The Australian aborigine policy looks remarkably 
human to us. Abs culturally are in far worse shape than 
American Indians—even more whipped by alcohol, job 
regimen, etc. Some tribes are remote and intact, but fragile. 
We visited two heroes—one an older guy running an abor- 
iginal art program that infused pride and skill to city abs. 
- The other a young stud with a beautiful aborigine wife, 
superintendent of a small reserve of detribalized abs on the 
coast—beautiful place, incredible problems—but a sweet 
visit for us. He could—the guy—step into any scene we know 
and get comfortably right to work. 
Stewart 
Catalan Earth 
We lived in a coast town 25 kilometers from Barcelona 
along a fast and frequent electric train route 
and the most ambitious freeway in Spain. But it was not a 
suburb. You can consider suburbanization as conversion 
of the traditional summer house into a night and weekend 
house. No townsperson worked in Barcelona to my know- 
. 
ledge. Most of them were born there or in one of the 
closely packed next towns. Babysitting was unknown, 
partly because people seldom went out, but also because 
_ they all had cousins in walking distance. They are pros- 
perous by Spanish standards. Many, for example, have 
washing machines (although the village still has a 
communal spring where old ladies come to wash and gossip.) 
But they speak of Barcelona as strange and unknown. No 
one can tell you how to find streets in the city 16 miles 
away. Technology without transcience. 
Besides summer people the.main work is truck gardening. 
Tiny stores make it in Catalonia. Two dry goods stores, 
four groceries, two beef markets, two fish markets, one 
pork and grocery market, one stationary, one hardware 
store, one bakery in a town of 900. The owner lives above 
and behind 
each, with a sales space not bigger than a 
California ranch style living room. They own washing 
machines too. 
The Catalans are proverbially “‘peseterias”, that is devoted 
to coin. But from the same root comes the word for weight; 
they are heavy people. Our yard faced one of those truck 
farms. It was three or four acres. We would see the jardinero 
working from daylight till after sunset seven days a week. 
He is a fat man, with a floppy hat and well wrapped in 
old clothes with a spray can on his back, or a hoe, or 
opening irrigation channels, or plowing with either a burro 
or a roto tiller. The earth is sandy and does not look fertile, 
but they haul tons and tons of green stuff out of it. 
We planned to stay from January until June so | forsook 
gardening. | mean, some of you don’t use insecticide but 
when | found a snail on the fire wood, | carried it outside 
and set it on a soft weed. Total truce with bugs and plants. 
A surprising and lovely array of wild flowers was our 
reward. | sometimes wondered how the jardinero felt about 
that. | doubt if he liked it. 
Organic fertilizer, yes. Once our street was blocked by a 
pile of manure that fed slowly into the garden. The jardinero 
lived in a big stone house on the corner of the land. It had 
a big stone out building and, like all Catalan farms, a large 
cistern. Like all those cisterns, his had water lilies and 
overgrown gildfish. Around the house a chicken yard. The 
garden raised carnations (picked for the Paris market when 
each bud first cracked color so the field was never in bloom), 
Onions, the fava bean ubiquitous in Catalonia, the very 
tasty Spanish green beans, peas, cabbage, lettuce in season, 
potatoes; the climate is very like San Francisco except no 
fog. He controlled weeds with heavy mulching but also 
with herbicides. Use of insecticides there is heavy and 
uncontrolled. | see him now, 
-leaning on his weight in one 
Part of the garden; working in other parts are his wife, a 
sentimental woman with a violent temper, and his only 
child, a son, just back from the army, with hair a little long. 
The wife sells the produce every morning in the next town. 
. 
They are said to be rich. 
. 
They are not talking politics. The thing about politics in 
Spain is, it is unobtrusive. Everyone tells you how the 
Guardia Civil used to depress the atmosphere by standing 
on street corners everywhere with their rifles. Now you 
seldom see them, you see fewer police than in America. 
The theater where Jerry Rubin, or George Wallace, or 
Nixon or McCarthy strut their parts stands empty in Spain. 
The newspapers report foreign news briefly but neutrally 
and well. Spanish news is appointment of subcabinet 
ministers, local mayors, opening factories, freeways. Pseudo 
news. Likewise the drug scene. | know people who have 
scored in Barcelona, but | have no idea what the scene 
is because people don’t talk and | have never seen the 
Spanish word for grass (“‘grifa’’) in print. Every town in 
Spain has a Falange party headquarters, but 
they mostly 
lack new paint and new blood. They are a sinecure for 
civil war veterans. Doubly so in Catalonia. | saw a rock 
concert going on in the Falange party headquarters 
in San 
Juan de Vilasar. 
Protest of a sort is even allowed. Of/just the sort Reagan 
would allow. The mayor of our little 
town (an official 
appointed by the provincial governor, who is appointed by 
Franco) banned parking on the street where most of the 
shops stand. The shop-owners had a meeting and protested, 
quietly. The parking was changed. 
But two years ago there was a demonstration at the 
university in Barcelona against the course structure and 
other university matters. The president of the university 
was thrown out the window of his office, and, very 
embarrassing to the government, priests demonstrated 
on the side of the students. It even got into the newspapers 
a little. Franco did not fuck around. He closed the university. 
It’s still 
closed. Pow. 
: 
Pow. Power. Authority. Nobody knows what will happen 
when Franco dies, which may be anytime soon. His 
designated successor as head of state, Don Carlos, may be 
the pastiest noodle in European history. A middle aged 
youth who makes Eisenhower seem forceful and quick 
minded. No one can imagine him actually ruling for more 
than an hour. A gradual drift toward liberal democracy 
whisper the semi secret liberals in Madrid with the same 
kind of sick sweet absolutely baseless insinuation of 
prescience that cold war liberals lick off one another in the 
pentagon. A new civil war and/or an independent state 
of Catalonia are conceivable. We got delicious 
crusty 
bread delivered daily by motocycle for 7 cents a loaf. 
When | went to tell the breadman that we were going to 
Madrid, Toledo, Granada and some other cities in Andalucia 
so he would not deliver while we were gone, he said, ‘‘Oh, 
you're going to Spain.” 
As here, people on the street are young. I’fl bet the average 
age is lower than here. The predictors don’t take into 
account what would happen if these young people got 
behind some idea or other of politics. Now they are 
behind none. There is 
ahip population in the cities. 
Not so 
many long hairs as California, but they are there. 
Their values and fantasies and personal life is about the 
same as long hairs here or in France or anywhere; the 
more you get toward 
pop culture the more international 
everything is. They do not seem to be much interested in 
issues of the civil war although a certain number are marxists. 
It seems to me inevitable that they will some time come to 
consciofsness and start rocking the boat. 
Dirk van Nouhuys 
(Note: Dirk spent several months in Spain this year). 
20 
= 
