' 
{ 
who loned it through the streets of Idaho seeking 
visionary indian angels who were visionary 
indian angels... 
—Ginsberg, Howl 
The booklist that follows comes from two intense informal 
years (and five slack ones) hanging around Indians, 
reservations, anthropologists, and libraries. Long may 
Indians, reservations, anthropologists and libraries thrive! 
They gave me more reliable information, and human 
warmth, than dope and college put together. 
!‘m sure that the books all by themselves cannot deliver 
The Native American Experience. For that you need 
time immersed in the land and neighborly acquaintance 
at least with some in fact Indians. Still, an amazing 
amount is in the books. 
A nice broad illustrated introduction is 
The American Heritage Book of Indians 
Alvin M, Josephs, Jr.; William Brandon 
1961; 424pp. 
$ 16.50 postpaid 
from: 
Simon and Schuster 
630 Fifth Ave. 
New York, N.Y, 10022 
The account, historical rather than anthropological, is 
comprehensive for all the major tribes and their profound 
diversity. 
Good color pictures. 
Now, if you like your Indian /ore in raw handfuls of nuggets 
rather than gussied up into jewelry, then the twin treasures 
of Bureau of American Ethnology and Edward Curtis The 
North American Indian are worth the trouble of making 
friends with a large library. 
TWO TREASURES 
The Annual Reports of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 
Smithsonian Institution are about fifty feet long on the 
shelf. Enormous volumes begun in the 1870's by one of 
Congress’ benignest acts right when anthropology was 
quickening into life and the Indians were still there, tribal 
and strong. The engravings (many of them gently hand- 
colored), as well as the later photographs, are 
splendid 
artifacts in themselves. What the investigations yield, in 
minute detail, is a grab bag assortment of diamond glimpses 
into old tribal ways, not seen whole maybe but seen with 
a kind of discipline that’s admirable. At one time | wanted 
to assemble an anthology of text and illustrations from the 
BAE 
volumes to be called “American Indian Genius”. | 
hope someone will do. it. 
The following quotes and illustrations are from the 
1881-82 Annual Report and Bulletin No. 186, 7963. 
Smithsonian Institution 
Bureau of American Eth nology 
Anthropological Papers 
U.S. Government Printing Office 
Washington, D.C. 
An Indian Bibliogra 
Wigwam showing mats in use. Rear and foreground floor, cedar-bark 
mats. At sides, rush mats. On walls, cattail mats. (Courtesy of the 
Science Museum, St. Paul, Minn.) 
Figure 30, Cattail mat technique: 
Loop made for selvedge. 
1. The worker grasps a pair of leaves, concave side toward her, 
with the thumb and index finger of the left hand about 2 
inches from the end, which is in front of her and near 
the 
hanging foundation twine. 
} 
2. With her right hand she loops the tying cord loosely around 
the leaves and the two fingers holding them, windingin the 
direction away from herself and keeping the loop open with 
the two fingers (fig. 30, a). 
: 
3. She places the leaves behind the foundation twine with about 
1% inches projecting on the right side of the twine. 
4. She turns the ends of the leaves over the foundation twine, 
toward her. 
5. She slips the ends under the loop, her left fingers assisting. 
6. She pulls downward hard on the side of the loop away from 
her, to pull the ends of the leaves closely together (fig. 30 b), 
and ties the end of the cord in a slipknot. (This knot is not 
repeated in the rest of the process.) 
. She pulls the excess tying cord to the front. 
as 
~N 
140. Council and appointment of policemen.—As soon as they 
could see the herd they stopped. Then the crier called certain young 
men by name, saying, ‘‘Let us consecrate some ta or sides of’ 
buffalo meat. You will také ata for me.” (See 151.) A council was 
held by the chiefs and directors, and having decided to surround the 
herd, policemen were appointed. These wanace were selected 
from the wahehaji or brave men. They had no work to do till 
they were near the herd. Then they had to watch the people to 
keep them from scaring off the herd by moving before the proper 
time. All who disobeyed them were severely punished. Cadacice, 
an aged Omaha, who is now lame and palsied in one limb, was 
once strong and highly esteemed by his people; but he violated the 
rules of the hunt, and all the policemen flogged him so unmercifully 
that he never fully recovered from the effects of his punishment. 
The offense was committed when the people had been unsuccessful. 
in finding a herd, and were almost starved. Suddenly some buffaloes 
were discovered. Though it was against the law for any small 
number of men to go against the herd, independently of the rest, 
two or three, including Cadacice, disobeyed, and, rushing forward, 
scared off the herd, so that none were caught. On another hunt, 
when the men were behind a bank, seven of them wished to ascend 
the hill sooner than Two Crows directed. They started up against his 
wishes; but he rushed after then and lashed them right and left with his 
whip, compelling them to desist. 
: 
During the council the chiefs said, “Let us consecrate some buffalo 
tongues, and also two or four hearts."’ Then, calling on two of the 
young men, they said, ‘’Young men, you will get the hearts and tongues 
for us, and place them together at the sacred tent.” 
= 
eo) 
- 
ps 
aie 
toe 
| 
¥ 
: 
€ 
The North American Indian, Edward S. Curtis, 20 volum 
1907-1930, is the non-stop best portrait gallery in ThE eee 
history of photography. The best collection of Indian images, 
and the most ambitious-one-man one-work photographic — et 
effort ever made. You haven’t heard of it because only 500 
— 
sets were printed and they cost about $5000 apiece then. — 
Curtis won support from J.P. Morgan for the venture of a 
visiting all the surviving American and Alaskan tribes of 
his time and photographing them in traditional dress and — 
activities. He delivered. Most of the tribes he visited, Curti 
wound up joining the local medicine society to establish 
h 
seriousness. His photographs show Indians relaxed, proud, — 
et 
at home on their land and in their tribal life. Hundreds and ae 
hundreds of photographs, half of them huge 20”x3| ome 
ares 
ty 
sepia plates. Some 176 are reproduced in 
a 
ie 
Stewart Brand 
16 September 1970 
Curtis’. Western Indians 
Ralph Warren Andrews 
: 
age 
1962 
ec 
Out of Print 
/ve heard rumors of plans to reprint Curtis’ entire 
; * ¥ 
monumental work. | hope for that. (All lve gothandy = 
for illustrations are four measly captionless polaroid 
— 
prints. Sorry.) 
. 
(4 
ee 
