ink 
Little 
by Wendell Berry 
First there was Civil Rights, and then there was The War, 
and now it is The Environment. The first two of this se- 
quence of causes have already risen to the top of page one 
of the nation’s consciousness, and declined somewhat, in 
a remarkably short time. | mention this in order to begin 
with what | believe to be a justifiable skepticism. For it 
seems to me that the Civil Rights Movement and the Peace 
Movement, as popular causes in the electronic age, have par- 
taken far too much of the nature of fads. Not for all, cer- 
tainly, but for too many they have been the fashionable 
politics of the moment. As causes they have been under- 
taken too much in ignorance; they have been too much 
simplified; they have been .powered too much by impa- 
tience and guilt of conscience and short-term enthusiasm, 
and too little by an authentic social vision and 
long-term 
conviction and deliberation. For most people those causes 
have remained almost entirely abstract; there has been too 
little personal involvement, too much involvement in organ- 
izations which were insisting that other organizations should 
do what was right. 
There is considerable danger that the Environment Movement 
will have the same nature: that it will be a public cause, 
served by organizations that will self-righteously criticize’ 
and condemn other organizations, inflated for a while by 
a lot of public talk in the media, only to be replaced in its 
turn by another fashionable crisis. | hope that will not 
happen, and | believe that there are ways to keep it from 
happening, but | know that if this effort is carried on solely 
as a public cause—if millions of people cannot or will not 
undertake it as a private cause as well— then it is sure to 
happen. In five years the energy of our present concern will 
have petered out in a series of public gestures—and no doubt 
in a series of empty laws—and a great, and perhaps the last, 
human opportunity will have been lost. 
It need not be that way. A better possibility is that the 
movement to preserve the environment will be seen to be, 
not a digression from the civil rights and peace movements, 
but the logical culmination of those movements. For | 
believe that the separation of these three problems is arti- 
ficial. They have, it seems to me, the same cause, and that Is 
the mentality of greed and exploitation. The mentality 
that exploits and destroys the natural environment is the 
same that abuses racial and economic minorities, that 
imposes On young men the tyranny of the military draft, 
that makes war against peasants and women and children 
with the indifference of technology. The mentality that 
. destroys a watershed and then panics at the threat of flood 
is the same mentality that gives institutionalized insult to 
black people and then panics at the prospect of race riots. 
It is the same mentality that can mount deliberate warfare 
against a civilian population and then express moral shock 
at the logical consequence of such warfare at My Lai. We 
would be fools, in my opinion, to believe that we could 
solve any one of these problems without solving the others. 
To me, one of the most important aspects of the environ- 
mental movement is that it brings us not just to another 
public crisis, but to a crisis of the protest movement itself. 
For the environmental crisis should make it dramatically clear, 
as perhaps it has not always been before, that there is no 
public crisis that is not also private. To most advocates of 
civil rights racism has seemed mostly the fault of someone 
else. For most advocates of peace the war has been a remote 
reality, and the burden of the blame has seemed to rest 
mostly on the government. | am certain that these crises 
_have been more private, and that-we have each suffered 
more from them and been more responsible for them, 
than has been readily apparent, but the connections have 
been difficult for most of us to see. Racism and militarism 
have been institutionalized among us for too long for our 
personal involvement in those evils to be easily noticeable 
to us. Think, for example, of all the Northerners who 
assumed—until black people attempted to move into their 
neighborhoods—that racism was a Southern phenomenon. 
And think how quickly—one might almost say how 
naturally—among some of its members the peace movement 
has spawned policies of deliberate provocation and violence. 
But the environmental crisis rises closer to home. Every 
time we draw a breath, every time we drink a glass of 
water, every time we eat a bite of food we are suffering 
from it. And more important, every time we indulge in, or 
depend on, the wastefulness of our economy—and our 
economy's first principle is waste—we are causing the crisis. 
Nearly every one of us, nearly every day of his life is contri- 
buting direct/y to the ruin of this planet. 
In this crisis it is certain that every one of us has a public 
responsibility, We must not cease to bother the government 
and the other institutions, to see that they never become 
comfortable with easy promises. For myself, | want to say 
that | hope never again to go to Frankfort to present a peti- 
tion to the governor on an issue so vital as that of strip 
mining, only to be dealt with by some ignorant functionary 
—as several of us were not so long ago, the governor himself 
being ‘‘too busy” to receive us. Next time | will go prepared 
to wait as long as necessary to see that the petitioners’ 
complaints and their arguments are heard fu//y by the 
Governor. And then | will hope to find ways to keep those 
complaints and arguments from being forgotten until 
something is done to relieve them. The time is clearly 
past when it was enough merely to e/ect our officials. | 
think we will have to elect them and then go and watch them 
and keep our hands on them, the way the coal companies 
do. We have made a tradition in Kentucky of putting med- 
iocrities and freeloaders, and worse, in charge of our vital 
interests. | am sick of it. And | think that one way to change 
it is to make Frankfort a less comfortable place. As | have 
said before, and intend to say again, | believe in American 
political principles, and | will not sit idly by and see those 
principles destroyed by sorry practice. | am ashamed 
and deeply distressed that American government should 
have become the chief cause of disillusionment with Amer- 
ican principles. 
And so when the government in Frankfort again proves 
too stupid or too blind or too corrupt to see the plain 
truth and to act with simple decency, | intend to be there, 
and | trust that | won't be alone. | hope, moreover, tu be 
there, not with a sign or a slogan or a button, but with the 
facts and arguments. A crowd whose discontent has risen 
no higher than the level of slogans is on/y a crowd. But a 
crowd that understands the reasons for its discontent and 
knows the remedies is a vital community, and it will have 
to be reckoned with. | would rather go before the govern- 
ment with two men who have a competent understanding 
of an issue, and who therefore deserve a hearing, thani to 
go with two thousand who are vaguely dissatisfied. 
But even the most. articulate public protest is not enough. 
We don’t live in the government or in institutions or in our 
public utterances and acts, and the environmental crisis 
has its roots in our /ives. By the same token, environmental 
health will also be rooted in our lives. That is, | take it, 
simply a fact, and in the light of it we can see how super- 
ficial and foolish we would be to think that we could 
correct what is wrong merely by tinkering with the insti- 
tutional machinery. The changes that are required are 
fundamental changes in the way we are living. 
What it seems to me that we are up against in this country, 
in any attempt to invoke private responsibility, is that we 
have nearly destroyed private life. Our people have given 
up their independence in return mostly for the cheap 
seductions and the shoddy merchandise of so-called ‘‘afflu- 
ence.’’ We have delegated all our vital functions and respon- 
sibilities to salesmen and agents and bureaus and experts 
of all sorts. We cannot feed or clothe ourselves, or entertain 
ourselves, or Communicate with each other, or be charitable 
or neighborly or loving, or even respect ourselves, without 
recourse to a merchant or a corporation or a public service 
organization or an agency of the government or a style-* 
setter. Most of us cannot think of dissenting from the op- 
inions or the actions of one organization without first for- 
ming a new organization. Individualism is going around. 
these days in uniform, handing out the party tine on_ 
indi- 
vidualism. Dissenters want to publish their personal opinions 
over a thousand signatures. 
<a 
