the government, but turn off the lights you’re not using, 
- 
don’t install an air conditioner, don’t be a sucker for elec- 
trical gadgets, don’t waste water. In.other words, if you are 
fearful of the destruction of the environment, then learn 
to quit being an environmental parasite. We all are, in one 
way or another, and the remedies are not always obvious, 
though they certainly Will always be difficult. They require 
a new kind of life—harder, more laborious, poorer in luxur- 
ies, but also, | am certain, richer in meaning and more abun- 
dant in real pleasure. To have a healthy environment we 
will all have to give up things we like; we will probably 
nave to give up things we have come to think of as necessi- 
ties. But to be fearful of the disease and yet unwilling to 
pay for the cure is not just to be hypocritical; it is to be 
doomed. If you talk a good line without being changed by 
what you say, then you are not just hypocritical and 
doomed; you have become an agent of the disease. Consider, 
for an example, the President, who advertises his grave con- 
cern about the. destruction of the environment, and who 
turns up the air conditioner to make it cool enough to 
build a fire. 
Odd as |! am sure it will appear to some, | can think of no 
better form of personal involvement in the cure of the en- 
vironment than that of gardening. A person who is growing 
a garden, if he is growing it organically, is improving a 
piece of the world. He is producing something to eat, which 
makes him somewhat independent of the grocery business, 
but he is also enlarging, for himself, the meaning of food 
and the pleasure of eating. The food he grows will be fresh- 
er, more nutritious, less contaminated by poisons and pre- 
servatives and dyes. He is reducing the trash problem; a gar-. 
den is not a disposable container, and it will digest and 
re-use its own wastes. If he enjoys working in his garden, 
then he is less dependent on an automobile or merchant 
for his pleasure. He is involving himself directly in the 
work of feeding people. 
If you think I’m wandering off the subject, let me remind 
eT 
Wendell Berry’s newest book of poems, Farming: A 
Hand Book, has just been published by Harcourt, Brace 
and Jovanovich. The Hidden Wound, a book-length 
essay about racism, will be published by Houghton- 
Mifflin late this fall. 
Think Little was originally presented as an Earth-Day 
speech last April. 
It was previously published in blue- 
tail fly, a 
Kentucky underground newspaper. 
blue-tail fly 
210 W. Third St. 
Lexington, Ky. 40507 
Published monthly, 25 cents a copy 
~ 
Photos accompanying Think Little by James Baker Hall. 
you that most of the vegetables necessary for a family of 
four can be grown on a plot of forty by sixty feet. | think 
we might see in this an economic potential of considerable 
importance, 
.since we now appear to be facing the poss- 
ibility of widespread famine. How much food could be 
grown in the dooryards of cities and suburbs? How much 
could be grown along the extravagant rights-of-ways of the 
Interstate system? Or how much could be grown, by the 
intensive practices and economics of the small farm, on so- 
called marginal lands? Louis Bromfield liked to point out 
that the people of France survived crisis after crisis be- 
cause they were a nation of gardeners, who in times of want 
turned with great skill to their own small plots of ground. 
And F.H. King, an agriculture professor who traveled ex- 
tensively in the Orient in 1907, talked to a Chinese farmer 
who supported a family of twelve, ‘‘one donkey, one cow, 
...and two pigs on 2.5 acres of cultivated land’’—and who 
did this, moreover, by agricultural methods that were 
sound enough organically to have maintained his land in 
prime fertility during several thousand years of such use. 
These are possibilities 
that are very readily apparent and 
attractive to minds that are prepared to think little. To 
Big Thinkers—the bureaucrats and businessmen of agri- © 
culture—they are quite simply invisible. But intensive, 
organic agriculture kept the farms of the Orient thriving 
for thousands of years, whereas extensive—which is to say, 
exploitive or extractive—agriculture has critically reduced 
the fertility of American farmlands in a few centuries or 
even a few decades. 
A person who undertakes to grow a garden at home, by 
practices which will preserve rather than exploit the econ- 
omy of the soil, has set his mind decisively against what is 
wrong with us. He is helping himself in a way that dignifies 
him, and which he will find to be rich in meaning and plea- 
sure. But he is doing something else that is more important: 
he is making vital contact with the soil and the weather on 
which his life depends. He will no longer look upon rain 
as an impediment of traffic, or upon the sun as a holiday 
decoration. And his sense of man’s dependence on the 
world will have grown precise enough, one would hope, to 
be politically clarifying and useful. 
What | am saying is that if we apply our minds directly and 
competently to the needs of the earth, then we will have 
begun to make fundamental and very necessary changes in 
our minds. We will begin to understand and to mistrust 
and to change our wasteful economy, which markets not 
just the produce of the earth, but also the earth’s ability 
to produce. We will see that beauty and 
utility are alike 
dependent upon the health of the world. But we will also 
see through the fads and the fashions of protest. We will 
see that war and oppression and pollution are not separate 
issues, but are aspects of the same issue. Amid the outcries 
for the liberation of this group or that, we will know that 
no person is free except in the freedom of other persons, 
and that man’s only real freedom is to know and faithfully 
occupy his place—a much humbler place 
than we have 
been taught to think—in the order of creation. And we will 
know that 
of all issues in education the issue of relevance 
is the phoniest. If life were as predictable and small as the 
talkers of politics would have it, then relevance would be a 
consideration. But life—as the earth itself will teach us, if 
we let it—is large and surprising and mysterious, and we 
don’t know what we need to know. When | was a student 
|-refused certain subjects because | thought they were irrel- 
evant to the duties of a writer, and | have had to take them 
up, clumsily and tate, to understand my duties as a man. 
What we need in education is not relevance, but abundance, 
variety, adventurousness, thoroughness. A student should 
suppose that he needs to learn everything he can, and he 
should suppose that he will need to know much more than 
he can learn. 
But the change of mind | am talking about involves not 
just a change of knowledge, but also a change of attitude 
toward our essential ignorance, a change in our bearing in 
the face of mystery. The principle of ecology, if we will 
take it to heart, should keep us aware that our lives depend 
upon other lives and upon processes and energies in an 
interlocking system which, though we can destroy it com- 
pletely, we can neither fully understand nor fully control. 
And our great dangerousness is that, locked in our selfish 
and myopic economics, we have been willing to change or 
destroy far beyond our power to understand. We are not 
humble enough or 
reverent enough. 
Some time ago | heard a representative of a paper company 
refer to conservation as a ‘’no-return investment.” This 
man’s thinking was almost exclusively oriented to the annual 
profit of his industry. Circumscribed by the demand that 
profit be great, he simply could not be answerable to any 
other demand—not even to the obvious needs of his own 
‘children. The principle of profit applies only to individuals; 
aman willing to be governed by it has abdicated, not the 
duty, but the abi/ity to look beyond himself. 
Consider, in contrast, the profound ecological intelligence 
of Black Elk, ‘’a holy man of the Oglala Sioux,’’ who in 
telling his story said that it was not his own life that was 
important to him, but what he had shared with all life: 
It is the story of all life that is holy and is good 
to tell, and of us two-leggeds sharing in it with 
the four-leggeds and the wings of the air and: all 
green things. . 
. 
And in the great vision that came to him when he was a 
child he says: 
| saw that the sacred hoop of my people was one 
of many hoops that made one circle, wide as day- 
light and as starlight, and in the center grew one 
mighty flowering tree to shelter all children of 
one mother and one father. And | saw that it was 
holy. 
MANIFESTO: THE MAD FARMER LIBERATION FRONT 
For Jack and Mary Jo 
Love the quick profit, 
the annual raise, 
vacation with pay. Want more 
of everything ready made. Be afraid 
to know your neighbors and to die. 
And you will have a window in your head. 
Not even your future will be a mystery 
any more. Your mind will be punched in a card 
and shut away ina 
little drawer. 
When they want you to buy something 
they will call you. When they want you 
to die for profit they will let you know. 
So, friends, every day do something 
that won’t compute. Love the Lord. 
Love the world. Work for nothing. 
Take all that you have and be poor. 
Love someone who does not deserve it. 
Denounce the government and embrace the flag. 
Hope to live 
in that free 
republic for which it stands. 
Give your approval to a// you cannot 
understand. Praise ignorance, for what man 
has not encountered he has not destroyed. 
Ask the questions that have no answers. 
Invest in the millennium. Plant sequoilas. 
Say that your main crop is the forest 
that you did not plant 
and that you will not live to harvest. 
Say that the leaves are harvested 
when they have rotted into the 
mold. 
Call that profit. Prophesy such returns. 
Put your faith in the two inches of humus 
that will build under the trees every thousand years. 
Listen to carrion—put your ear 
close, and hear the faint chattering 
of the songs that are to come. 
Expect the end of the world. Laugh. 
Laughter is immeasurable. Be joyful 
-though you have considered all the facts. 
So long as women do not possess 
great power, please women more than men. 
Ask yourself; Will this satisfy 
a woman satisfied to bear a child? 
Will this disturb the sleep 
of a woman near to giving birth? 
Go with your love to the fields. 
Lie easy in the shade. Rest your head 
in her lap. Swear allegiance 
to what is nighest your thoughts. 
As soon as the generals and the politicos 
can predict the motions of your mind, 
lose it. Leave it as a sign 
to mark the false trail, the way 
you didn’t go. Be like the fox 
who makes more tracks than necessary, 
some in the wrong direction. 
Practice resurrection. 
—Wendell Berry 
