Think Little 
Confucius says that the ‘‘chief way for the production of 
wealth” (and he is talking about real goods, not money) is 
“that the producers be many and that the mere consumers 
be few. . .”” But even in the much-publicized rebellion of 
the young against the materialism of the affluent society, 
the consumer mentality is still intact: the standards of 
behavior are still those of kind and quantity, the security 
sought is still the security of numbers, and the chief motive 
is still the consumer's anxiety that one is missing out on 
what is “’in.’” In this state of total consumerism—which is 
to say a state of helpless dependence on things and services 
and ideas and motives that we have forgotten how to pro. 
vide ourselves—all meaningful contact between ourselves 
and the earth has been broken. We do not understand the 
earth either in terms of what it offers us or what it requires 
of us, and | think it is the rule that people inevitably des- 
troy what they do not understand. Most of us are not 
directly responsible for strip mining and extractive agrt 
culture and other forms of environmental abuse. But we 
are guilty nevertheless, for we connive in them by our ig- 
norance. We do not know enough about them; we do not 
have a particular enough sense of their damage. Most of us 
not only do not know how to produce the best food in the 
best way—we don’t. know how to produce food of any 
kind in any way. And for this condition we have elaborate 
rationalizations, instructing us that dependence for every- 
thing on somebody else is efficient and economical and a 
scientific miracle. | say, instead, that it is pure madness, 
mass produced. A man who understands the weather only 
in terms of golf is participating in a chronic public insanity 
that either her or his descendents will be bound to realize 
as suffering. | believe that the death of the world is breeding 
‘in such minds ~much more certainly and much faster than 
in any political capital or atomic arsenal. 
For an index of our loss of contact with the earth we need 
only to look at the condition of the American farmer—who 
must in our society, as in every society, enact man’s depen- 
dence on the land, and his responsibility to it. In an age of 
unparalleled affluence and leisure, the American farmer 
is harder pressed and harder worked than ever before; his 
fnargin of profit is small, his hours long; his outlays for 
land and equipment and the expenses of maintenance and 
operation are growing rapidly greater; he cannot compete 
with industry for labor; he is being forced more and more 
to depend on the use of destructive chemicals and on the 
wasteful methods of haste and anxiety. Asa class, farmers 
are one of the despised minorities. So far as | can see farm- 
ing is considered marginal or incidental to thei economy 
of the country, and farmers, when they are thought of at a 
all, are thought of as hicks and yokels, whose lives do not 
fit into the modern scene. The average American farmer 
is now an old man, whose sons have moved away to the 
cities. His knowledge, and his intimate connection with the 
land are about to be lost. The small independent farmer is 
going the way of the small independent craftsmen and 
storekeepers. He is being forced off the land into the cities, 
his place taken by absentee owners, corporations, and 
machines. Some would justify all this in the name of 
efficiency. As | see it, it is an enormous social and economic 
and cultural blunder. For the small farmers who lived on 
their farms cared about their land. And given their estab- 
lished connections to their land—which was often heredi- 
tary and traditional as well as economic—they could have 
been encouraged to care for it more competently than they 
have so far. The corporations and machines that replace 
them will never be bound to the land by the sense of 
birthright and continuity and love which enforces care. 
They will be bound by the rule of efficiency which takes 
thought only of the volume of the year’s produce, and takes 
no thought of the slow increment of the life of the 
land, 
not measurable in pounds or dollars, which will assure the 
livelihood and the health of the coming generations. 
If we are to hope to correct our abuses of each other and 
of other races and: of our land, and if our effort to correct 
these abuses is to 
be more than a political fad that will in 
the long run be only another form of abuse, then we are 
going to have to go far beyond 
public protest and political 
action. We are going to have to rebuild the substance and 
the integrity of private life in this country. We are going to 
have to gather up the fragments of knowledge and res- 
ponsibility that we have parceled out to the bureaus and 
the corporations and the specialists, and we are going to 
have to put those fragments back together again in our own 
minds and in our families and households and neighbor- 
4. 
af aks ihe 
dean 
hoods. We need better government, no doubt about it. But 
we also need better minds, better friendships, better 
marriages, better communities. We need persons and house- 
holds that do not need to wait upon organizations but who 
can make necessary changes in themselves, on their own. 
For most of the history of this country our motto, implied 
or spoken, has been THINK BIG. | have come to believe- 
that a better motto, and an essential one now, is THINK 
LITTLE. That implies the necessary change of thinking and 
feeling, and suggests the necessary work. Thinking Big has 
led us to the two biggest and cheapest political dodges of 
our time: plan-making and law-making. We have been 
carried clean away on the wings of great gold-plated polit- 
ay” ee 
ioe. 
a 
oy oe 
A 
he 
. 
7 
adi 
cf 
i 
tee 
i 
SN 
BO 
orgs 
$ 
eet, 
ees 
a ee 
ical and economic generalizations. The lotus-eaters of this 
era are in Washington, D.C., Thinking Big. Somebody comes 
up with a problem, and somebody in the government comes 
’ 
up with a plan or a law. The result, mostly, has been the 
persistence of the problem, and the enlargement and en- 
richment of the government. 
: 
But the discipline of thought is not generalization; it is 
detail, and it is personal action. While the government is 
“studying” and funding and organizing its Big Thought, 
nothing is being done. But the citizen who is willing to 
think little, and, accepting the discipline of that, to go 
ahead on his own, is already solving the problem. A man 
who is trying to live as a neighbor to his neighbors will have 
a lively and practical understanding of the work of peace 
and 
brotherhood, and—let there be no mistake about 
it—he is doing that work. A couple who make a good mar- 
riage, and raise healthy, morally-competent children are 
serving the world’s future more directly and surely than 
any political leader, though they never utter a public word. 
A good farmer who is dealing with the problem of soil ero- 
sion on an acre of ground has a sounder grasp of that pro- 
blem, and cares more about it, and is probably doing more 
to solve it than any bureaucrat who is talking about it in 
general. A man who is willing to undertake the discipline 
and the difficulty of mending his own ways is worth more 
to the conservation movement than a hundred who are 
insisting merely that the government and the industries 
mend their ways. 
|f you are concerned about the proliferation of trash, then 
by all means start an organization in your community to 
do something about it. But before—and while—yeu organ- 
ize, pick up some cans and bottles yourself. That way, at 
least, you will assure yourself and others that you mean 
what you say. If you are concerned about air pollution, 
help push for government controls, but drive your car less, 
use less fuel in your home. If you are worried about the 
damning of wilderness rivers, join the Sierra Club, write to 
Jarfalla: City of the Future 
STOCKHOLM-—The first city of the future will be built in 
Sweden. It will be called Jarfalla, have about 100,000 resi- 
dents, and be accessible by subway or highway from Stock- 
holm, just 12 miles away. No gasoline-powered vehicle 
will be allowed. Noiseless electric minibuses moving at a 
soothing 20 miles per hour will pass within 150 yards of 
everyone’s house, carrying passengers and baggage free. 
Rolling platforms something like horizontal escalators will 
carry downtown shoppers on their rounds, underground 
heating will melt snow as it falls to the sidewalks, garbage 
will be collected by vacuums installed in each residence 
and transported through tunnels by compressed air to 
incinerators 30 miles away. Heat and hot water will be 
supplied by a single thermonuclear plant, 
the temperatures 
regulated by individual thermostats. The air will be pure, 
the smog-free light dazzling, the water delicious'and whole- 
some, the streets impecable, the only sounds those of 
music and children at play. It will cost an enormous a- 
mount of money. 
: 
Alas, we cannot be all Swedes, nor can all Swedes live in 
Jarfalla. By the time there are 7 billion of us milling around 
the planet, 30 years from now—or 9 billion, 20 or 30 years 
from now— our lives are likely to be arranged quite diff- 
erently. Futurologists hold out a considerable range of 
repellent prospects. 
; 
Among the most cheerful is Nigel Calder, former editor of 
New Science in England, whose ideas go something like 
this: 
Those of us still living on land may be enclosed in anything 
from towns of 50,000 completely under glass to supercities 
of 50 million commanding nearly a million square miles— 
the size of Western Europe. But the majority of the human 
race will be settled on the sea, in floating towns reaching 
deep under water so that disturbance due to surface winds 
and waves—seasickness, that is—will be negligible. More 
likely than not, these towns will take the form of iceships, 
ice being unsinkable, easily landscapable, and relatively 
cheap to make and preserve (one doesn’t like to think of a 
possible power failure, but Mr. Calder assures us we needn't 
worry). The icetowns would be protected against wind by 
geodetic domes, perfumed and decorated by thought- 
fully contrived sights and sounds, air-conditioned to a year- 
round spring-like temperature, and supplied with food by 
ocean gardens grown either on imported soil or in enclosed 
and cultivated tanks of sea water. 
Limited as such nourishment may be to the palate, we 
might go down on our knees in gratitude for it, consider- 
ing the possible alternatives. About 4 or 5 billion people 
would be facing starvation, few of us could permit ourselves 
the luxury of real fruit and vegetables (a cucumber, say, or 
a watermelon). Scientists having discovered that yeast can 
be grown on petroleum, vast quantities of this cheap pro- 
tein source can be grown'to feed animals destined in turn 
to feed us. Three main production lines for animal protein 
would then operate side by side. 
In one, cattle, pigs and poultry would be raised’on plant 
material for meat and eggs. In another, milk would be for- 
med continuously by a culture of milk-producing glands, 
intended for drinking and making, butter and cheese. In a 
third, beef muscle would grow continuously in long tubes, 
extruding itself for chopping into steaklike portions. A 
complex of smaller works would turn out a selection of 
prepared foods — soups, sausage, bread, beer and so on— 
for national or regional distribution. Vitamins and flavors 
from national suppliers would be added as required. Orange 
and lemon juice could be produced from cultures, with 
chemical processing of fibrous materials to add ‘‘bite.’’ The 
very rich could buy natural fruit and vegetables from mil- 
lionaire market-gardeners; the very poor could sustain life 
with combinations of plant and yeast material reinforced 
with vitamins—comparable, perhaps, to having all of one’s 
meals supplied by a domestic airline, with vitamins added. 
Mr. Calder does not go very deeply into the psychological 
side-effect of all this. 
If the effects on human beings may not be 
altogether fore- 
* 
seeable, we are already getting some idea of what may hap- 
pen to the animals we'll be counting on, nutritionally 
% 
speaking. The latest method of pig-raising, for instance, 
already makes use of the production line, the pigs arrayed 
— 
in rows before conveyor belts moving at a carefully calcu- 
~ 
ve 
are 
lated pace with carefully dosed food rations designed for 
ape 
optimum fattening at minimum cost. The one hitch is 
an inclination on the pig’s part to go crazy; thus, the other- 
wise automated system requires a highly paid attendant 
whose only function is to watch for early symptoms of 
¢ 
—~ 
a 
insanity and snatch the unfortunate patient from his place 
at the conveyor belt, replacing him with another identical 
in appearance, within five minutes at most, before all the 
ov 
fl 
rest go wild. 
; ca 
—Times/Post News Service 
ok 
” 
¥ 
