Mining on Kirk’s Creek 
by Holly Musick 
| was discharged from the army November 22, 1945 after 
serving 6 years. | was stationed in Fort Story, Va. in the 
peace-time army. Later | was assigned to the 738 Bt. Haq., 
at Camp Edwards, Mass. | stayed with the 738 until the end 
of the war. We were on Saipan when the war was over. The 
Air Force flew us to Hamilton Field, California, from where 
| was sent to Fort Bragg, N.C. and discharged. 
When | arrived home my three brothers, all of whom had 
served in the army in World War Two, greeted me. They 
had just been discharged too, so we rested and played a- 
round for a month or two, before we decided to form a 
company and go into business. We thought over several 
propositions, and finally decided to open up a coal mine. 
We found a big boundary of coal for lease for 15 cents a 
ton. This boundary of coal was located away out in the 
wilderness. We had to travel about 16 miles on the main 
highway, turn off onto a county dirt road and travel up 
Kirk’s Creek for 5 miles. We leased this boundary of coal 
for 20 years. 
We set out to open up the vein of coal. My brother owned 
a 1935 Oldsmobile car. 
We loaded our tools in the old 
car, picks, shovels, cross-cut saw, hammers and steelbars. 
There was no electricity on Kirk’s Creek. The only thing 
we had was man power. The first thing we did was build a 
road down a small bank from the county dirt road to a 
small field on the property we had leased. We cut all the 
bushes and cleaned out 
all the old dead logs and trash. 
We built a bridge across a small creek. We picked up our 
saws and axes, walked up on the mountain and cut trees 
down for two days, big dead Chestnuts and Oaks. We ren- 
ted an old horse and pulled all the logs down the mountain — 
to the tipple sight and the drift-mouth of the coal mine. 
My brothers excavated a big hole in the earth, inasmall 
— 
field, about 7 feet deep, and hit the seam of coal. We 
drove a big steel bar through the seam of coal. We had a 
52 inch seam of coal. This gave us the angle and the lay of 
the coal seam. 
We picked up our shovels and picks\and started to dig a 
big cut in to the mountain. We were soon under the loose 
rock. We set big timbers on each side of the opening, and 
placed heavy cross-collars from one timber to the opposite 
side of the cut. We were under the loose rock. We drove 
the tunnel 
: about 4 feet and set timbers and cross collars, 
and then we drove big split timbers from one set of timbers 
to the next set. We drove the split timbers over to the cross 
collars and made a solid bridge which gave us protection. 
We set 5 sets of timbers and cross-collars, and by this time 
we had hit solid rock, blue slate, hard as a dry bone. 
We carried our breast auger to the tunnel. This piece of 
equipment was a 3-piece affair, a breast plate, a crank and 
8 
the auger. With a sharp bit on the end of the auger, we 
picked up the breast auger and started drilling a hole into 
the face of the rock tunnel. We drilled the holes about 3 
feet deep and filled the holes full of dynamite. We lit the 
fuse and BANG! We rolled the loose rock out of the tunnel 
in an old wheel barrow, and blasted again. 
The tunnel was 9 feet wide and 60 inches high. | worked 
in the tunnel with one of my brothers while the other two 
started to build the tipple outside. 
The coal seam was 75 feet under the earth. At the mouth 
of the tunnel the coal seam was raised on an angle facing 
the mountain. We drove the tunnel a hundred feet and met 
° 
the coal seam and faced up the coal. After we drove the 
tunnel 20 feet the rock was hard as flint rock. We had to 
sharpen our oid auger often. Sometimes it would take as 
much as 2 hours to drill one hole. We were going about 
one foot a day in the tunnel. The air was bad, there was no 
ventilation. We decided to blast one day, and clean the 
loose rock out the following day. 
We had to get some air in the tunnel, so we bought several 
joints of black 2 inch pipe and screwed them together and 
pushed them into the tunnel. We pulled the blower off the 
black smith shop and attached it to the pipe and placed the 
blower 3 feet from the ground. All you had to do was turn 
the crank on the blower and pump air into the tunnel. 
Holly and his niece Susan 
\ 
Saeee 
When we were 60 feet deep into the tunnel the light was 
bad 
so we all bought a cloth-top mining cap. This cap 
had a leather attachment on the front of the cap, this was 
to hang your carbide lamp on. The carbide lamp was a 
2-piece affair, The lamp screwed apart about the middle. 
The bottom compartment was for the carbide, the top 
compartment was for the water, water switch, face, and 
air vent so the carbide gas can escape through a tube from 
the bottom compartment. You just spit on the carbide, 
screw the lamp together and turn on the water switch, and 
stroke the flint, and you have a beautiful light. 
~ 
We drove the tunnel one hundred feet and faced up the 52 
inch seam of coal. We turned an entry in the coal to the 
left of 
the tunnel and drove the entry from one hundred 
yards, to a spot we were going to drive an air shaft to the 
outside. We laid two-by-four track down the tunnel and out 
—_— 
the entry to the air shaft, and set an old mining car on the 
; 
two-by-four track. We drilled a few holes into the rock and 
blasted. We were driving through the rock coming to the 
outside for an air shaft. 
‘ 
We measured the tunnel and the entries and figured all the 
— a ' 
angles. We come to the outside and measured, and figured 
3 
all the angles again. My brother stuck a pick in the ground 
and said, “This is it, men, this is the top of the air shaft.” 
» 
The top of the airshaft was located about 50 feet above 
the drift mouth of the mine, and about 75 yards to the 
left of the drift mouth up on the mountain in a small cove. 
We dug a hole in the earth four feet deep and four feetin 
diameter. We attached a churn drill bit to a two-inch pipe 
a 
20 feet long and started to churn the drill up and down 
e 
by hand. All four brothers were working on the churn 
drill at the same time. We pulled the churn drill up and 
slammed the drill in the hole, pouring water in as we 
worked. We drilled for two weeks. We had a hole 40 feet 
deep, by three inches. We stuffed the hole full of sixty per- 
cent dynamite and attached a fuse, and blasted. 
Pits 
We walked back down from the mountain and pushed the 
—__ 
old mining car into the tunnel out the entry to the airshaft. 
We started moving loose rock out the air-shaft. We scooped 
the loose rock down out of the airshaft and loaded the 
mouth. We cleaned all the rock out of the airshaft. | looked 
up through the air shaft and saw daylight. The shaft was 
60 feet to the outside about 4 feet in diameter. It looked 
like a big smoke stack. 
We walked out of the coal mine up the mountainto the 
— 
top of the air shaft and placed a big steel barrel inthe 
—_ 
mouth of the shaft. The barrel had big slits in the bottom. 
We built a big fire in the barrel and the cool air swept 
: 
through the tunnel up the entry and out the airshaft. 
