Be: 
“4 
Violin Repairing From Breugel 
| learned violin repairing from a guy right out ofa Breugel painting in 
Boston. Information which he passed along also is useful if you desire to 
repair a guitar. So—some how to and some where to. 
1. Cracks in top or back. 
ona 
violin you can take the top off and pull the split together—| would 
not suggest trying this on a guitar because of various construction differ- 
ences. Best thing to do is fill crack with shaped splinters of wood (shaped 
© 
to crack), spruce, or whatever the top is made of, These should be 
stuck in with a white glue Elmers is O.K. but ““Tirebond,” (which is 
' slightly yellow (otherwise like elmers) is Best. Can be gotten at some 
hardware store— —look around for it. More expensive but waterproof 
and strong. If can’t find it is made by: 
: 
The Franklin Glue Company 
Columbus Ohio U.S.A. 
eight fluid ounce container (like elmers) 
@ $1.40 
2. Tiny cracks can be fillered with ““Tirebond.” 
3. Broken neck. (guitar) where neck joins body. 
glue 
on with epoxy—drill hole and insert % inch wood (birch usually) 
dowel. coat the dowel with “tirebond”’ before you stick in. DO NOT 
fill hole with glue and drive in peg (dowel) this will give neat demonstra- 
tion of how hydraulic pressure can split wood. If tremendous strength 
is necessary use a thick metal screw. (drill out first) 
Broken neck other places. 
- 
Never have done it but some kind of pin, peg or dowel between the 
two pieces is highly recommended. 
for finishing materials and glue of other types for use in guitars or furni- 
ture (either main business) 
H. Behlen Bros. Inc. 
10 Christopher St. 
New York, N.Y. 10014 
‘ask for catalogue and price list (they are separate) They are prompt. 1-2 
weeks. (on east coast anyhow) they make a really beautiful white shellac. 
Home recipe #1 for a good violin/guitar varnish 
1. combine their ‘“‘sandarac” resin in a jar with alcohol (rubbing type) e- 
nough alcohol to cover the sandarac and 1/3 more. 
. leave it to disolve for a week (until it all dissolves) 
. drain through cheesecloth 
. combine with equalpart of good quality white shellac 
- Powdered colour can be used with it. (get this at some art stores) 
. Thin with alcohol 
: 
Whole earth catalogue best thing ever to come down the pike. 
; 
Stephen Till 
Concord Mass. 01742 
snow 
and 
slush—kecep 
your feet dry. 
Make the 
jeather soft and pliable—make your 
shoes wear longer. 
Do it with 
[EAKANOT 
THE 
FEET 
DRY 
Compost for the City 
Reading somebody's back issue | was interested to find Gurney Norman 
making Suburban compost in his back-yard in Menlo Park, Cal. When | was 
in Brooklyn, | was sneakily making it in a plastic garbage can in my kitchen 
(after having been banned from the “‘living”’ room—whatever) (“Can | make 
compost in the living room, dear?’’) 
“| got great joy out of salvaging egg shells and coffee and rottables out of 
my throw away bags and storing them in my cache—One problem: it was 
_very hard after awhile to stir everything up adequately. But it didn’t 
really smell, if you didn’t lift the lid, and pretty soon it seemed to be be- 
coming earth again! We moved, then, to concrete Manhatten, and the com- 
post came with us. In myconcrete back yard | lined up half a dozen wood- 
en milk boxes and scrounged earth from my country-going friends, and 
“mixed the compost in with the earth, and planted everything that would 
. grow in the shade in poluted air. Well, the tulips came up one year, coral 
~ bells are always there, and packisandra and myrtle are green all rear round. 
Violets grow beautiful green leaves but no flowers yet. Basil is spectacular! 
| am not too scientific with this compost stuff..| probably am burning the 
plants, its so rich. But at least my back-yard has a green raggedy fringe to 
it. | miss the green fields and lush gardens and cool forests so much. | just 
pretend I’m an ant in my milk-box wilderness and everything seems better. 
Janet Toy 
New York, N.Y. 
- 1 can condensed milk 
YOGURT 
“Your lengthy entry on 
yogurt surprises me. All 
those shennagins & con- 
traptions to get 113°% 
Try this— you'll find it 
easier: 
‘1 can boiling water 
1% can tap temperature 
water 
% c. active yogurt culture 
Put in tightly covered 
containers & let stand for 
3 hours. 
Refrigerate. 
+ 
ae 
“This was me before I read Lady Borton’s foolproof recipe. Ad 
Works every time. If the weather is cool, put yogurt 
containers on a pan of warm water & let sit for three 
hours, then refrigerate. Granted, the yogurt is sweet, 
but good particularly when frozen. 
Peace, 
Lady Borton 
Quaker Service 
Quang Ngai, Viet Nam 
F 
Start small; 
Money In Poultry (BiG. 
ge 
Joy's Bigg Book tells how, 
and Squabs 
| 
ante 
hry farms gives yreat miaiss of 
west prices en fowls, cygess it 
PA 
Mailed dc. 
FL FOY, 
Jerk It 
If given achance to voice their opinions, wives tend to severely bad-mouth 
the less choice cuts of venison that generally wind up as ground meat. And 
for good reason. Without a fair amount of fat mixed in, hamburger loses 
flavor. The fat of deer having a rather strong taste it is properly trimmed 
out which makes it necessary to then add beef suet or pork fat to give the 
meat the flavor and consistency the modern palate expects from ground 
meat. 
\ 
An excellent alternative is to forget the hamburger and instead, jerk the 
portions of the deer that don’t wind up as chops or roasts. Jerky was a 
standby of the early travelers through Missouri and parts West because it 
keeps well, is simple to prepare and is a good source of protein. If dried to 
the point of “whang” leather, being neither too moist, nor crumbly, a 
small pack of jerky can provide a whole day’s chew during those moments 
when the ducks aren't flyimg, the fish aren’t biting, or (heaven forbid) 
when the dogs can’t smell a quail. It beats apples as therapy for those out- 
door frustrations because it won't bruise in your pocket and unless it’s 
seasoned too heavily, only an occasional drink of water is required. 
While you can jerk about any form of red meat, it’s only that of venison 
that conjurs up visions of be-whiskered mountain men whose phenomenal 
. ability to live off the land included 
making use of such meat preparation. 
Completely defatted, sliced a quarter-inch thick, about a half-inch wide 
and somewhere around eight inches long, lightly dusted with salt and pep- 
per, and hung over a smokey fire of low heat until dried stiff, but not easily 
broken, the making of jerky is just that simple. 
Perhaps the ancients would groan from beneath their rocky cairns over the 
way the moderns do it (heat lamp in the attic or ina 150 degree oven with 
the door propped open an inch 
for about four hours), but conditions 
change with the times. The climate of Missouri is a little humid for jerky 
to keep indifinitely so unless you've a way to package the meat with an 
air-tight seal, the freezer is the logical place for the supply—in which a 
paper or plastic bag will suffice until it’s eaten. 
From The Convervationist, Jan. 1970 
issue, put out by Mo. Dept. of Conservation 
written by Mac Johnson 
recommended by Pico Elgin, Columbia, Mo. 
