, 
_ 
4 q 
—- 
. 
“" don’t want to, | DON’T WANT TO, 
|! don’t want to be a MAN; 
| want to be a Fox.” 
af 
“Oh, the Ha-Has again. You are reverting.” 
Fox was laughing. He said, ‘Seriously, Oriole, why did we grow up 
so fast? Only yesterday, when we began our story and | started to 
see the world with my father, who was then areal Bear .. Ae 
Oriole interrupted.’ ‘‘No, you are mistaken. He was not a real Bear 
yet, he was only a beginning of a bear, he was a person-bear. Now he 
is a bearman—! mean a man-bear.. .| mean...” 
“Oh, keep quiet. You are getting me all mixed up again.” 
“No, Fox, listen to me; ! will explain. The man who is telling 
our story, it’s his fault, he has done something wrong with the 
machinery of time, he has let it go too fast. You see, he was 
- supposed to take a million years to tell our story. The poor fellow, 
he is too old, he gets all mixed up. He should go and take a rest in 
the country for a while.” 
~ “Oh, my, my, my!” sighed the Fox, “’the only thing to do is to 
start again RIGHT AT THE BEGINNING.” Fox looked curiously at 
Oriole. ‘What do you mean, 
aMILLION years?” 
"Why, | mean an infinity of time, just as Tsimmu was telling in his 
story of the creation of the world, Don’t you remember? Ten times 
ten times ten times ten years, molossi molossi molossi tellim 
_piduuwi. When Cocoon Man was floating around in nothing but air 
_ and fog he waited a million years for that cloud to come near 
enough so he could jump on it.” 
“Yes,"" said Fox. “Yes, just like Marum’da, who made the world and 
then he went to sleep. That’s an infinity of time, but it must stop 
-somewhere—it can’t go on forever. It must stop somewhere.” 
Oriole asked, “WHY?” 
Fox thought a moment then he said, ‘| dunno. But listen, Oriole, 
; what's time anyway?” 
Oriole said, “Why, it’s ten times ten times ten times ten years. What 
else do you want it to be?” 
Fox said, “| dunno, | guess it’s growing old.” 
Oriole said, ‘All right, then, some people grow old faster than others. 
You know that yourself. Just as some people walk faster than others. 
1t all depends on who is looking at it."’ 
E “Why, Oriole, you are crazy. It depends on who is walking, not on 
the man who is looking at the fellow who is walking.” 
“No, certainly NOT. 
Look at that man over there walking. He 
seems to be just crawling along, but if you were close to him, 
he would be going much faster. That’s the way with the man who 
_ 
is telling this story. Sometimes he is closer and sometimes he is 
farther away, so for him that makes us go faster or slower.” 
Fox said, “Oriole, 
you drive me crazy. Now | don’t know whether 
| am standing on my head or my feet. It’s like that time when we 
first met you and your father.” 
4 
“Listen, Fox, it isnot | who started this idea that there was a man 
telling this story, it was you. For all we know, there is no such man.” 
“Of course, there is not, | invented him."” 
“That doesn’t prove anything. Marum’da invented the people, and 
they existed whether he liked it or not. Maybe you invented the man 
who is telling this tory, so now he exists. It’s too bad, but now you 
can’t get rid of him.” 
, 
“Yes, | will. I'll destroy him the way Marum’da did the people.” 
“Then you 
know what will happen, Mister? You won't exist any 
more because he is the one who is telling the story.” 
“Oh, oh, oh, stop, Oriole!’” Fox was holding his head in both hands. 
Then he laughed as he pulled Oriole to her feet and they both ran 
down the hill. 
Communal Type 
To explain a water-hovse of the 
dug partly underground 
Zuni Breadstuff 
Frank Hamilton Cushing 
1920; 673 pp. 
Indian Notes and Monographs, Vol VIII 
Museum of the American Indian 
Heye Foundation 
Out of Print (available in large libraries; 
| was able to buy acopy through 
Woodard’s Indian Arts, Gallup, N.M.) 
Cushing is the classic case of the anthropologist who went 
native. He was sent by the Smithsonian Institution to study 
the Zunis in the late 1870's. By 1875 the frail genius had 
joined the Pueblo, was living the Zuni life entirely, and soon 
became a high officer. He was a totally successful and wholly 
foiled anthropologist. He knew all the Zuni religious secrets, 
but as a responsible member of the tribe he could not reveal 
them. .His only consequential writings were a series of 
articles for a bread-making trade magazine called The 
Millstone; the articles, which are collected in this volume, 
go far beyond bread into every tellable aspect of Zuni life. 
In 1884 Cushing returned to the East Coast, fiddled around 
for a few years of failing health, and died in 1900 at the 
age of 43. Some anthropologists say it was because he did 
reveal secrets. | see the-book doesn’t really have the quality 
1 remember from first reading, but it’s still a phenomenon. 
@ Dry dama Barrer, 
'///+ 
Hf HN tee 
SeRIDTIN 
‘||}\\ ut] 
CONSECRATION 
ar THE 
"ie a 
S 
Shuwing method of sot 
renewal and trestel irradia 
Zuni 
BAL 
MG 
Plan of a Zuni Cornfield 
After the corn was ripened, two modes of making it eatable 
were extremely simple. Still on the ear it was toasted, or, in the 
kernel, parched. In several ways this parching was accomplished. 
Crudest of all these was burial and constant stirring in hot ashes; 
but the favorite process was to half fill a thle-mon-ne, or black, 
shallow roasting pot or pan (pl. xi, d), with clean,.dry sand. The 
pot was then set over the fire until the sand became thoroughly 
heated, when the corn was poured in and constantly stirred with 
a bundle of hard-wood sprigs (e) so loosely tied at the 
middle that 
they could be spread apart in order that the sand and corn might 
readily pass between them. When well browned and swollen, a 
judicious shaking of the toasting vessel brought all the kernels to the 
top, whence they were easily separated from the sand. Of the 
corn thus parched, a highly concentrated and nutritious substance 
was made, the grains firs! eing cracked, re-toasted, and then 
ground to fine flour. A little of this flour stirred into cold water 
made a gruel which required no cooking and was capable alone 
of sustaining life throughout extended journeys, where lightness of 
burden.and ease of preparation were prime requisites. Mixed with 
_ water and sweetened by a means heretofore described, or happily 
by the addition of ground licoriceroot, fermented and slightly 
boiled, it made a thin syrup or sweet gruel (tsa-shi-we), ever the 
favorite at the Zuni evening feast. 
When the corn was designed for consumption without further 
preparation than by the parching, salt, if abundant enough, was 
used in-place of the sand, imparting to the kernels roasted in it 
a delicate seasoning unattainable by the cruder methods first 
described. 
Thus, it may be seen that one small nation is organized on four 
different principles, no one of which has, save in the religious 
aspect, dependency on any of the others: (1) The sacred government, 
according to the places of worship; (2) the secular government, 
according to landed and water possessions; (3) the medical govern- 
ment, according to professions of ‘‘medicines’’ and fetichism; and 
finally (4) the social government, according to family organization. 
Were this paper treating rather of the sociology than of the food 
productions of the Zunis, | could show how these four kinds of 
subdivisions harmonize with one another; how, indeed, the first 
three were the outgrowth of the fundamental social principle 
of the tribe, and how, finally, with the addition of the phratral 
combinations of clans (now modified or outgrown among the Zunis), 
all four features were well-nigh universal to aboriginal America. 
Hunters of the Northern Ice 
Richard K. Nelson 
1969; 429pp. 
$8.50 postpaid 
from: 
University of Chicago Press 
5750 Ellis Avenue 
Chicago, IIl. 60637 
For anyone wanting to stay alive around ocean ice this 
book is necessary: otherwise it is merely fascinating. Nelson 
was an eskimo for the U.S. Air Force. He spent four years 
engaged in the seal hunters’ life accumulating polar survival 
lore and respect for Eskimo endurance and ingenuity. 
His report is as dense and pungent and nourishing as good 
pemmican. Every sentence tells you something about ice 
formation, ice movement, finding open water, weather fore- 
casting, cold injury, ice camps, bird behavior, game habits, 
hunting techniques... survival in terrain without margin. 
One of the most definitive characteristics of safe versus unsafe is its 
color. Although there are intermediate shades and rare exceptions, 
unsafe young ice is very dark, usually black 
. New ice is saturated 
with water and is sufficiently translucent to reveal the dark color 
of the sea below. As the ice thickens it begins to rise higher in 
the water; therefore the color becomes gray (sikuliak maptizoak). 
Unlike the westerners with whom he has contact in modern times, 
the Eskimo seldom doubts what he has been told by others, 
especially if they are his elders. Thus, without previous actual 
experience in a given situation he will unquestioningly respond 
to it in the way 
that he has been told. The outsider, on the 
other hand, continually frustrates the Eskimos by doubting these 
instructions and attempting to formulate original solutions which” 
he believes to be better. Those who live with Eskimos over a long 
enough period find themselves questioning less and less, and 
following whatever they are told to do by their more experienced 
native companions. 
Returning to the ice apron after retrieving a seal with an umiahalurak. 
The man at the left spreads his legs wide to prevent his breaking 
through the thin ice. He will use the hook of his unaak to draw the 
boat up onto the ice. 
There is one other attitude of the Eskimo which seems to be adapted 
to his economic life. This is his ability to find genuine humor 
in misfortunes that befall him, or in his own errors. It is sometimes 
explicitly stated that a hunter should laugh when things go wrong, 
because anger never helps him, while laughter makes him better 
able to overcome setbacks. In an environment where so much can 
go wrong, and it is so easy to lose something that has nearly 
been gained, such an attitude is almost a necessity. If a hunter 
has shot a bearded seal, and when the harpoon is tossed it glances 
off just as the animal sinks, this is an occasion for laughter, not for 
disgust. The old hunter, Kavik, never tired of telling stories of his 
exploits, and he would sometimes laugh 
until tears glistened in his 
eyes when he told of his greatest and most frustrating mistakes. 
