ere 
ee 
rs eres 
ae 
oo 
Dear 
I may be making a mistake in writing to you 
but the potential of a positive constructive 
outcome seems to warrant the gamble. 
How difficult it is to write a comprehensible 
letter to.someone you've never met. Your 
efforts and contributions toward ecological 
harmony and environmental adaption, as 
evidenced by your ‘Whole Earth’ catalog, 
makes me hopeful that you are a socially 
aware person in these times of increasing chaos 
and planet wide violence. You seem to be 
looking ahead to the practical aspects of future 
survival. This is the person to whom I write— 
one whom I could really dig if I were free to 
do so. 
I have lived in the wilderness, both alone and 
with ‘The People’ communally, seeking a life 
positive approach to self and social realization away 
from the negaitve pressures of our consumer 
oriented socio-economic insanity. Your ‘catalog’ 
would have been a boon to me then as it no 
doubt is to my many brothers still pursuing a 
less cluttered life away from the cities. 
I must tell you now that I am being held a 
prisoner for having cultivated a small ¢rop of 
marijuana. It is relative to my present situation 
that I think a correspondence between us might 
lead to constructive possibilities which you can 
utilize in your project and ultimately benefit 
the people. 
Briefly my idea ts this. Much undirected life 
energy is idly dissipated within prison. There 
are many creative and clever people held here 
who have no constructive outlet for their 
energies. Were they to have the thought 
provoking benefit of your catalog at hand and 
Know that their better ideas might reach the 
people, much of this energy might be directed 
in a life positive direction, benefiting all. 
If we can develop a correspondence, the few 
necessary obstacles can be easily overcome. I 
can order the catalog with prison approval and 
introduce it to fellow prisoners. Communication 
between us as friends will enable the outflow of 
ideas to you. 
If you are interested and wish to communicate 
with me further it will be necessary that you 
be placed on my mailing list. If you respond in 
the affirmative to the party thru whom this 
letter is conveyed, | will be so advised and will 
initiate an application to place you on my 
mailing list as a friend. You will then receive a 
form to fill out requiring certain information 
that must correspond with what I place on my 
application. In your response to this letter you 
must tell me your age, home address and full 
name. I will state that we have been friends for 
nine years. That is all we need. 
Although we must write as old friends, I hope 
you will still be able to convey a subtle intro- 
duction so that | may better know the person 
who seems to me now a worthy one whose goals 
are harmonious with mine. Whether you 
respond or not, | sincerely wish you well. 
Briefly Pll acquaint you with an outline of the 
intervening years since we last met. I was still 
practicing civil engineering then as well as my 
hobbies of pharmacognesy and gardening as 
relating thereto. Subsequently I dabbled in 
diverse forms of relating to life, trying some 
prospecting on the Rio Yaqui in Mexico, 
collection of lady bugs in the Sierras and range 
seeds in several western States. All of which 
was quite joyous and close to earth. | spent 
several months living by foraging and hunting 
in the Sierras—getting things together both 
within and without. Spent a few months with 
the Univ. of Colorado in Boulder in their 
Organic chemistry laboratory as an employee— 
then split for Mexico and spent an incredibly 
joyful year digging Huatla de Jimenez, Oaxaca 
and so on. Returned and soon found myself 
being treated as a dangerous criminal. 
Joy—that is what your letter brought me this 
otherwise meaningless Monday—the first letter 
in three weeks from someone alive outside. 
Lack of stimulation from self directed people 
is one of the greater negatives of this existence 
in prison. One must constantly fight a regression 
into vegetative functioning in such a void. 
Letters like yours jolt me back to heightened 
awareness. 
eee 
LETTERS FROM PRISON 
Again your letter catalyzed an already high level 
of energy awareness. I have been fasting since 
Saturday and the clarity is crystalline. 
While this intensely high energy level persists I 
may deluge you with daily letters until | 
- 
discharge what has been too long pent up 
having no real outlet. Perhaps you may glean 
an occassional pearl from the bursting 
verbosity if you can bear the torrent. I am all 
too aware of the dangers of symbolization, the 
many pitfalls of the semantic morass but yet 
this is the only bridge we have for interchange 
of our energies—and though an inferior pathway 
—they are better than none at all. ('d far far 
rather sit facing you on that hilltop in 
soundless but richer exchange and communion 
—and one day that may be For now—words!! 
eee 
Black marks on white so linear and structured 
yet the love that needs sharing behind them. 
‘but what to do” 
To the extent we interact and depend upon the 
projects of a system which is ecologically self- 
destructive, joy inhibiting and authoritarian 
structured, we thereby contribute energy and 
support to the demise not only of ourselves but 
to all planet life energy. Since any life exploitive 
social structure vitally depends upon the 
continuing cooperation through energy 
contribution of all its participants—the very 
basis for such imperatives as the training of 
docile conformism and lite repression— 
indoctrinating dependency, inducing self 
inadequacy, encouraging the code of the 
follower, etc. ad nauseum, in a socially self 
perpetuating life negative spiral so tightly and 
habitually reinforced in every possible way 
so as to exclude all possibility of alternatives. 
The spiral is susceptible and vulnerable only 
when awareness is elevated and mistaken 
assumptions dissolved—when distorted value 
systems can be seen for the emotional quagmire 
they really are. Only then, with mind unfettered 
clarity, can effective change be wrought. So 
far as we can cast light and contribute to such 
— 
clarity we contribute to a future—without it 
there may well be none. 
Lack of knowledge, addictive attachment to 
the glitter of the pleasure baubles dangled by 
the system’s salesmen are but two of the 
reasons for incomplete re-directing of energy. 
Ego trips of revenge—violent oppositional 
energy discharges are others. Too few look 
beyond the first hill and many yield to the lure 
of creature comforts as the uphill path steepens. 
The seeing through must embrace all levels— 
all attachments—all illusory values that have 
so effectively been imprinted to insure 
continuily of rigid institutions designed to 
convey the illusion of security th rough stasis 
in a creation of ongoing change which alone is 
certain. 
However, the path widens—ages, stars and cycles 
laugh at the illusions of permanence—pyramids 
pass, cities crumble—change will not be denied. 
To the extent we enter the stream and are 
guided by its currents—no longer clu tching 
debris for false comfort—but yielding to the 
unstoppable flow joyously, then, brother, we 
do well whatever we do. 
I have been lending some energy to low cost 
fabricated in place lake or lagoon surface 
dwellings—knowing of several locations 
where such would provide rent free, tax free 
dwellings, food available, for the fishing, 
amidst harmonious surroundings. How buoyant 
do you suppose volcanic pumice aggregate 
surface sealed lo prevent water logging in a 
concrete slab with incorporated empty bottles 
for added buoyancy where strength not needed, 
would be?? I have found some boulders that 
have so much entrained air that they float as is. 
Cast in place with perhaps empty drums for 
added buoyance. So far, lake space is generally 
unrestricted in many areas. I know of several 
lagoons where this would be especially groovy. 
I have been waiting for an inspirational state to 
set down what I have learned of cardboard. It 
has not come so I will struggle to convey what 
I can as best I can. I wish I could show you 
directly rather than risk confusion on a word 
trip—but here goes 
_ way then the other to yield a piece of cardboard 
First I'll describe a couple of basic slab designs— 
#1 for seats, etc where concentrated body 
loading occurs and #2 for side framing, backs, 
legs, table tops, shelves, ete where more uniform 
‘ 
and less concentrated pressure develop. Both 
slabs use triangular ribbing as primary stress 
members like a truss somewhat. For speed and — 
ease of construction these are formed from one 
large sheet of cardboard and folded along 
. 
straight lines (over a table, for example). For => 
slab #1 the folds should be 4” apart and for 
#2 they are 3” apart. The folds alternate one way 
that looks like this: 
Apexes of triangles must all lie in one horizontal 
plane. 
Next, stiffeners are cut from another sheet all 
with a 3” base (triangles). They can be cut 
more quickly by drawing a repeating pattern 
and cutting several with each cut. Laid out 
like this: 
on as large a sheet as desired. 
For slab #1 they will have a 3” base with sides 
4.” long—For slab #2 they are equilateral 3” 
on a side. They will have to be trimmed shorter 
so that when in place they will have bases 
flush with apexs of the ribs. Cut one to size and 
use it to lay out the remainder all the same. 
The stiffeners are then glued into place between 
the ribs with all contact edges getting 
acoat of 
glue. Best glue is the polyurethane powder 
mixed with water as it gives a very hard set and 
is water proof. Later a coat of the same glue 
over all finished surfaces will relatively water- 
proof the finished item. Spacing of the stiffeners 
should be 2” center to center under focused 
loading areas such as under the pelvic bone 
contact for chairs seats and at 3” centers 
elsewhere. They should be staggered from one 
rib to the next in an alternate pattern as thus: 
STIFFENERS 
TOP 
RI 
Bow 
y 
BN 
r ti 
When all stiffeners are glued in place you have 
a solid unit. All that remains is to glue on the 
top and bottom plates. A liberal coat of glue 
> 
is brushed on one side of each plate and pressed 
onto the ribbing with assorted weigh 
ts until 
dry. 
BRICK 
BOOKS 
: 
oy 
The slabs thus formed can be saw cut to any 
desired shape and end strips glued on to finish 
the appearance. They can be constructed to any 
size—ribs added adjacent and plates overlapping 
EX. 
to develop very large panels for interior wall 
a3 
framing—room dividers, etc. For furniture 
they can be utilized in ways limited only by 
imagination. 
é. 
To utilize the gradual contouring effect, wait 
== 
a few weeks on chairs before final finishing until 
this develops—then finish, A liberal outer glue 
a 
coat will both partially waterproof and fire- 
proof. The surface can then be hand painted, 
lacquered, sprayed or covered with fabric— 
whatever. 
One small but measurable beneficial aspect of 
: 
imprisonment is the objective viewpoint 
cae. 
attainable with non-involyment except in 
involuntary parasitic fashion with the whole 
traditional social morass. It is so difficult while 
flailing in the quicksand to turn a cool eye at it a 
eee 
The limits of exploratory reach are described 
by what we think we know. Totheextent 
thought configurates an end to our journey, 
there is an end to exploration—expansion halts, 
we become as dead. There is no goal— 
SS 
only a way, in which.all share. 
“2 
eee 
i've been trying to say free all 
Sea) 
prisoners in some fancy, alternative 
a 
way. these letters do it for me. 
ye 
they're from a friend. i've left 
: 
things out, to protect the 
: 
* 
innocent. | think he'll understand. 
; 
ay 
Ub 
Ore 
