Photo by Greg Dramhall 
Introducing: Divine Right’s Bus, Urge 
I was a fairly straight 63 VW microbus till Divine Right got me, a good clean 
red and white seven passenger job with five new re-capped tires and near 
perfect upholstery. The only bad thing that ever happened to my seats was 
the Muncy’s youngest kid use to puke on it all the time. The Muncys were 
my first owners. They bought me new in Germany when the old man was 
stationed over there in the army. He was a Master Sergeant in an infantry 
outfit, a little old for that kind of work maybe, but he liked it well enough 
to volunteer for Vietnam when that war started to heat up. The Muncys 
brought me back to the states, and, after the sergeant got blown up by a 
land mine, his wife Marie traded me in on a Falcon. 
Two days on a ear lot is a long time when you're not used to it. It was hot 
and damn boring, so even though this guy Divine Right looked pretty 
weird, I was so eager to get on the road again I felt grateful to him for buying 
me, although it did piss me off a little when the car dealer only asked eight 
hundred and fifty dollars. Divine Right paid the man with cash he’d got 
from a big grass score that morning, and if I could whistle I'd have 
whistled when we drove away together. 
Which goes to show you how much I knew about freaks in those days. Shit. 
I hadn’t gone five hundred miles with that son of a bitch before I'd of given 
my goddamn fuel pump to be back in the parking lot. That bastard drove me 
from Boston to Chicago to Indianapolis without once checking my oil. | 
found out later he didn’t even know where my goddamn oil stick was. Drove 
non-stop too, all day, all night, the only time I got even a little rest was when 
he'd slow down long enough to refuel or buy a rat-burger. If his brother-in- 
law in Indianapolis hadn’t noticed I was a quart and a half low I'd probably 
have thrown a rod as soon as we hit the next freeway. 
D.R. doesn’t seem to like them much, but his sister and brother-in-law are 
nice people. Ed understands about cars. He drives a stock-ear some, he 
knows how to take care of machines. He tried to tell D.R. about preventive 
maintenance, but he was too stoned to pay attention. He was on speed that 
trip, out of his skull on meth and reds, He told Ed he had to split in order 
to make the Ultimate Rendezvous. Ed said What 
But D.R. just grinned and started my n 
Maxine came out of the house with ab 
couldn’t wait another five seconds 
*s an Ultimate Rendezvous? 
notor and drove away. His sister 
ox of sandwiches for his trip, but D.R. 
to receive them. 
So you get some idea of where D.R.’s he id wes at. He was the kind of guy 
who never had the faintest idea how he affected things. He could fuck over 
a nice 63 VW microbus he’d just paid eight hundred and fifty dollars for, 
and never blink an eye. I don’t know what was the most humiliating, having 
my working parts ignored, or all that stupid paint sprayed all over my body. 
Inside and outside, I suffered both places. It’s one thing to go around feeling 
bad because you're low on oil; but when you have to /ook like a made-up 
whore, it gets to be a bit much. Housepaint, Day-Glo, fingernail polish, you 
name it and [ got smeared with it. Sometimes he’d pull off into the emergency 
lane of some big interstate and start painting on the spot. Said God was 
sending him directions how to do it. Bullshit. Sometimes he'd pick up 
hitch-hikers and tell them to lean out the window and paint while he 
drove. By the time him and those weird friends of his got through I looked 
like a watercolor that got rained on. It was awful. 
But I survived. | don’t know how but I did. Well, yes I 
do know too. It was 
Estelle. There’s no doubt about it, that little lady saved my ass from the 
junkyard. She was one nice person, that Estelle. There was something kind 
of sad about her, something a little, what? Vulnerable, I guess. It seemed like 
she cried a lot. But she sure knew how to be nice to an old broken-down bus. 
She’d wash me, and empty my ash trays. Sometimes D.R. would be too 
stoned to drive and Estelle would take over, and it would just be so fine, just 
me and her cruising quietly across the country through the night. That was 
the thing about Estelle. She understood cruising, she understood roads, and 
traffic, she knew how to flow with things in motion. I never did understand 
what she saw in D.R. But, I guess it wasn’t my place to have opinions about 
people. My job was to carry them around from place to place while they 
acted out their story, and although I resented it most of the time, I did my 
best. It was painful, but I do have to say it was interesting. | kind of wish 
I could have a voice in the Last Catalog, to tell my side of the story. But as 
far as | know I don’t get one. They say there’s too many points of view 
already to clutter it up even more with a goddamn talking car. So I guess 
this is the only chance I'll have to speak my mind. It aint much of a chance, 
but, when you've been down as long as I have, you get grateful for small 
favors. So goodbye. See you in the funny papers, maybe. 
Gurney Norman 
-
