Harlan and Anna Hubbard 
One of the highlights of my stay in Kentucky /ast summer 
was a day as a guest at the home of Harlan Hubbard and his 
wife Anna. For the past seventeen years, the Hubbards have 
lived the kind of life so many Catalog readers (and writers) 
fantasize about: organic and self-sufficient, on a small 
farm by the banks of the Ohio River. The Hubbards’ food 
comes from their garden, and their small goat herd, which 
provides them meat and milk. Their house is small, beauti- 
ful, and home-made, as is much of its. 
furniture. 
They have 
no electricity, and although Mr. Hubbard is nearing seventy, 
he has no use for noisy power tools in his outdoor work. 
Both he and Mrs. Hubbard are strong, handsome, elegant, 
cheerful people. Mr. Hubbard is a painter and a writer. Mrs. 
Hubbard is a musician. Before they moved to their present 
home in the early 1950's, they lived some-seven years on a 
shantyboat, cruising inland waterways. Mr. Hubbard wrote a 
a book about that experience called Shantyboat. He 
has recently completed another book, as yet unpublished. 
| was so deep into the experience of my visit with the 
Hubbards | was reluctant to get into anything like a business 
conversation. But | did leave them some back copies of the 
Catalog, and /ater | wrote Mr. Hubbard inviting him to let 
the Catalog print an excerpt from his new book. His reply 
to that letter is printed below. 
—GN 
Dear Gurney, 
We have been giving much attention to the Whole Earth 
catalogs and in time will have read every word in them. 
Have never come across anything like it. You are doing a 
great service to anyone who wants to form his life ona 
more natural, individual basis. For young people with such 
notions practical help is hard to come by, and they must 
appreciate the Whole Earth deeply. 
*Your letter and the catalog have aroused in me a new 
potential, perhaps a new responsibility. | would be most 
happy if something | had written about our experiences 
here would be a help and guidance to anyone wanting to 
live in a like manner; that is, to live close to the earth, in 
a natural way, providing the necessities by your own hands 
without becoming entangled in the system and all its ram- 
ifications. 
Yet | do not see how a part of my manuscript could be 
printed separately. The whole thing is not long, and it is 
so closely integrated that no part would stand by itself. 
At least that is the way | see it. Perhaps you or Wendell 
could make some extractions. You would be welcome to 
do so, but | would prefer to wait until the book is pub- 
lished—if it is. | am not at all as hopeful as you are on 
that point. 
| have ideas of writing something just for the Whole Earth 
catalog, but in truth | am not sure of my audience. Those 
of the ‘Whole Earth” type who have come to see us have 
for the most part gone away unimpressed. Appreciation 
has come mostly from people too old or too hidebound 
to make any change in their lives. | have thought this over 
since becoming acquainted with the Whole Earth catalog. 
What is the difference between young people today and 
myself as | was fifty years ago? Of course many differences 
are obvious. Yet | followed my own path without devia- 
tion, avoiding the pitfalls of college, jobs (that is, steady 
ones) and family. | worked only as much as | had to, and 
at manual labor. What led me away from the city and into 
the country was a positive attraction, not a negative denial. 
| wanted to enjoy the health, cleanliness, vigor, above all, 
the beauty of nature; to live a rude life, out in all weathers, 
close to the earth, my senses alive and keen; reveling in the- 
smell of wood and newly turned earth, in the sound of 
bird song and running water, the taste of honest food when 
you are hungry. | was successful in realizing my desires 
as most men are, | suppose. | married Anna when | was 
43. We lived for seven years on a drifting shantyboat, 
have lived here in Payne Hollow for eighteen a life of sub- 
sistence farming, in a patch of wilderness surrounded by 
the world of today, yet cut off from it; not involved pol- 
itically or technologically. Outsiders make their way in, 
and they are welcome. All people are basically good and 
more important to us than any group. 
How would all this be received by those who are in their 
twenties today? Not very warmly, according to my exper- 
ience with them. Perhaps-you would tell me why. 
if | were to write anything for the Whole Earth catalog, 
it would be in this vein. Perhaps | have expressed it all here, 
except for some. practical suggestions. 
| have been writing this during a pelting shower in my 
workshop, too dark for much else. It is slacking now and 
| am running down. Evidently it is impossible to get any- 
thing else to you by Sept. 10, and |! am sorry. 
Your visit and your commendation meant much to us. 
We are not quits, by any means. In fact we have just 
begun. 
6 
—Harlan Hubbard 
Milton, Ky. Rt. #2 40045 
Aug. 19, 1970 
Friends on the Farm 
The leeks came up pretty good, as did everything we plant- 
ed, although | think the peas got planted too /ate—it was 
too hot for them to really do it. Our only disaster was 
spinach—it just came up and sort of wilted. In general the 
garden is spectacular and | can’t think of a more rewarding 
way to break your back. | learned a lot from our neighbor, 
who is the best gardener in the valley, | guess. He doesn’t 
mulch but he does cultivate alot, so you could say he mul- 
ches with dirt. He grows a winter cover-crop, which | plan 
to do at the place we’re hoping to buy... yes, we’ve found 
a canyon that’s for sale—we 
just need to organize the 
money (I'd say we’re about 25 grand short right now). Alot 
of our friends have had trouble with water, so that’s one of 
the things we won't sell ourselves short of (what syntax!). 
This place we looked at has a spring that comes out of 
white rock, and two all year streams—and beavers and fish 
and elk and deer. Paradise. 
Back to gardening . 
. 
. everybody around here is an organic 
gardener, although they don’t talk or think about it. | asked 
our landlord if he sprays, when | went to plant the garden, 
and he said no, he wished he could, but his calves get sick 
when he does. We learned to plow, plant, brand, dehorn, 
and debal! from our landlord—then our paths parted, since, 
as the summer wore on, he got more and’ more frantic 
(he has a Jot of bills to pay off he claims) and we became 
less and less so. 
Alot of farmers in the valley work too 
hard, and are too greedy to really get it on with. For ex- 
ample we wanted to buy.a piece of land from two people at 
the dairy—we knew they had bought it for ten thousand 
dollars seven years ago, so | . figured (what naivete) that 
they couldn’t ask for more than say 30—they asked 
NINETY!! Everybody got very pissed off and called them 
greedy cocksuckers and what have you—though not to their 
faces. But we did stop buying milk from them. We got over 
half gallon of milk from Alice (our goat) and Paula’s 
goat Big Bag gives a-gallon—we buy from her at fifty cents 
a gallon—a real bargain. Goats milk makes better yogurt 
than cows, | think, and it’s so easy to make, Paula uses alot 
of thermometers and pipettes, but me, | just heat up:the 
milk till the bubbles form (that’s called scalding) and stick 
it in the jar with a lid on. Then / let it cool till it feels like 
a hot baby (no shit... it should be just cool enough to not 
have a sting to it anymore), then I stick in the culture 
(three tablespoons of the previous batch—if you need a good 
good starter, buy some high class yogurt from the health 
food store—or Christian Hansen starter (Maybe Paula will 
provide the address)—then | wrap it in a towel and leave it 
sit (don’t move it) till the next morning at which time it’s 
done. That’s for a quart. Goats are where it’s at... Alice is. 
as sweet asa dog... she responds to her name, doesn’t 
need to be tied up—goats don’t explode when they eat too 
much alfalfa the way cows do—and shits handy little pellets 
rather than huge mushy pies. Her only drawback is 
that 
she thinks she should live in the house, and is constantly 
trying to get in. We try to keep her outside the fence, as 
she was shitting alot immediately in front of the kitchen 
door’... whenever she gets the least bit excited, she pisses 
and shits. 
We got a huge (30 cubic feet) freezer, and are trying to fill 
/t up. Chip and Running Deer caught over a hundred trout 
one magic afternoon. They look great in the freezer, the 
trout, not Chip and R.D. And Toni’s mother taught us that 
you can freeze greens by \just sticking them in the freezer 
raw. So we have alot of packages of chard and turnip 
greens for winter soups. I’m freezing herbs, too—raw. The 
discovery of all is that you can freeze corn straight off the 
stalk—in the husk. Just fold the open end down and secure 
it with a rubber band and throw it in. It only keeps about 
three months, but that should be long enough to eat alot 
of the surplus corn. Our tomatoes look real good—they 
_ eighth if you’re sprouting alfalfa). Cover the jar with cheese 
; 
_ zed. 
% 
q 
et eee 
amon weet 
are almost ripe, and there are about a dozen on each plant. 
However ... the first frost is expected in just two weeks, 
which is a bit of a blow. Handy hint... (the reason for all. 
those dot dot dots is that the colon is out on this type- 
writer) pick the green tomatoes and wrap them in news- 
paper individually, then store them in the root cellar. 
They'll keep for a real long time (six months, | hear, 
; 
although nobody ever had enough green tomatoes to test 
this out), and you just bring em out a couple days before 
you want to eat them. 
: 
Before | forget: there is only one easy, clean, fast, conven- 
jent way of making sprouts. | got it out of a news/etter 
from organic gardening club in Santa Rosa. Soak the beans 
(if you want soy sprouts, mix them up with some mung 
_ 
beans—they’/! sprout better) overnight in a quart mason 
jar. Only fill the jar about one fifth full of beans (one. 
cloth or nylon window screen or some other real porous 
stuff—the point is to be able to pour water easily through 
the cover—as well as allow the air to circulate freely, which 
may be secured easily with a mason jar ring—or a rubber 
band, or a string. OK. After soaking the beans overnight, 
pour out the water—without taking. off the handy screen— 
and rinse off the beans and drain em real good. Then lay _— 
the jar on it’s side and cover it with a loaf pan ora towel. 
They should sprout in the dark. Put it in a warm place, and 
rinse off the beans a couple of times a day—this keeps 
them moist as well as clean, In fact this is the beauty of this 
sprouting method. Whenever | tried the other ways every- 
thing always rotted or just got plain nasty and slimey and 
— 
you wouldn’t want to eat any of it, let alone bring itinto 
the house. But with-the Santa Rosa Organic Gardening Club 
Method... 
. no muss no fuss, and in two-three days you have 
a quart of real good sprouts. Then when you see the little 
: 
leaves appear, stick the jar in the sun for fifteen minutes, 
and watch the leaves turn green (filling up on Vit. C.), and 
then into the refrigerator, A true cinch, | promise you. 
We're pre-fabbing a twenty meter diameter dome in the cow 
barn. Right now we're putting together a model—ten feet 
in diameter. We're cutting the lumber at the correct angles 
(as many as six different angles per piece, | think—dome 
calculations are not my dept.) to avoid having to use hubs. 
Then we‘re stapling the struts together and sticking then 
— 
together with hot glue. We think of adobe for the Jower 
part of the dome, but probably will use gunnite if we can 
afford it, and vinyl pillows a la Jay Baldwin on top. It’s 
gonna be two stories, and the downstairs many rooms, At 
F 
first we'll all live there, then next spring (this isan idealized 
projection of events) we'll build individual family dwellings 
and use the big dome for eating, hanging out, and various 
workshops. 
Elaine had her baby here at the house—the midwife had 
gone to Texas, so we got a local doctor to come over—he 
is over eighty, and an herbalist, but although his hand 
shook alot, he knew his stuff and the birth was smooth as 
. 
could be. We all attended, especially those of us who had 
5 
been to other births. The difference between having a baby — 
at a hospital (even a groovy one like Alta Bates) andhaving 
one at home is like the difference between pain and plea- 
sure—the sensations are similar in the abstract only. 
er 
We’ve had scores of visitors all summer—we were over thirty 
people here last week-end—which sometimes isa strain. 
Happily almost everyone has been a dear friend, so the 
hassles involved in sleeping twice as many people (not to 
mention feeding) as you are prepared for has been minimi- 
_ 
From a friend's letter 
