The Stream Conservation Handbook 
“The first practical primer for fishermen—— how to 
protect, preserve, and restore our rivers.’ Buy it, 
read it, use what you learn. Don’t just sit there 
shaking your head mumbling, “Now ain’t it just a 
damn shame.” 
would need braided line testing about 36 pounds and a casting 
weight between 5 and 7 ounces, while spinning tackle would 
do as well with monofilament testing from 12 to 15 pounds 
(plus a shock leader) and a casting weight of only about 2 
ounces. 
. s like Bates has it all here—— all the tackle, 
_ 
tactics, and whatever else one should know about 
Pe 
fresh and saltwater fishing. Think of something 
really out of the ordinary about fly fishing, or ice 
2 
_ fishing, or rigging deep sea trolling tackle or the bio- 
psychological activities of pond trout at the spring 
from: 
Outdoor Life 
201 Park Ave. S. 
New York, NY 10003 
or Whole Earth 
Two types of tackle principally are used for the surf: heavy 
spinning gear and conventional reels with revolving spools. 
The latter sometimes are called ‘“‘squidding” outfits because 
their owners so often use squids as bait or their imitations as 
lures. 
If a poll should be taken between the two methods, spinning 
would win by a wide margin. This is because the tackle is 
easier to use, mainly due to the fact that the reel won’t back- 
lash, as revolving-spool reels will when thumbed improperly. 
Both types will cast about equal distances—— in the hands of 
experts, 500 feet or more. To do this, conventional tackle 
FLY FISHING FOR TROUT 
by Tom Macy 
Chuang Tzu and Hui Tzu were strolling along the dam of the 
Hao River when Chuang Tzu said, “See how the minnows 
come out and dart around where they please! That’s what 
fish really enjoy!” 
Hui Tzu said, “You're not a fish—— how do you know what 
fish really enjoy?” 
___ Chuang Tzu said, ‘“‘You’re not I, so how do you know I 
don’t know what fish enjoy?” 
Hui Tzu said, “I’m not you, so I certainly don’t know what 
you know. On the other hand, you’re certainly not a fish—— 
so that still proves that you do not know what fish enjoy!” 
Chuang Tzu said, “‘Let’s go back to your original question, 
please. You asked me how I knew what fish enjoy—— so you 
already knew I knew it when you asked the question. I know 
it by standing here beside the Hao.” 
—from Chuang Tzu 
Fly fishing for trout takes you to such beautiful places that 
you don’t really need to catch anything. But, if you want to 
catch trout, you have to go to the river and study them like 
_ 
Chuang Tzu to see what they enjoy. Further you have to 
imitate, with a fly, what they enjoy near enough to their 
lair to arouse and hook them. This is quite difficult because 
“trout do not lie or cheat and cannot be bought or bribed 
or impressed by power, but respond only to quietude and 
humility and endless patience.’ (Robert Traver, Anatomy 
of a Fisherman.) 
: 
Good fly fishermen, the small handful who catch most of the 
_ fish caught, often spend as much time studying the stream, 
rolling over rocks for nymphs, and experimenting with 
different flies and techniques as they do actual fishing. 
_ The beginner or expert can best progress by getting to know 
one river well; the insects, aquatic and terrestrial; the pools, 
holes, pockets, and undercut banks; where and what fish feed 
on and at what time. A simple stream diary patterned after 
Schwiebert’s in Matching the Hatch, helps you keep track. 
Most trout streams have fishermen who love and understand 
them and who can catch fish in them under practically all 
moods and conditions. Much can be learned from these 
fishermen, but real success comes from spending many hours 
throughout the fishing year being creative and willing to 
experiment rather than accepting the dogma that has limited 
someone else’s success. Most major advances in fishing 
« 
technique and knowledge have been the result of careful 
; study and experimentation. 
- Below I have listed fishing catalogues of reliable companies 
and some of the major books on fly fishing that have helped 
countless fishermen. 
If you were to limit yourself to two 
books, | would suggest Joe Brooks’ Trout Fishing and 
Schwiebert’s Matching the Hatch. This of course assumes 
that you have already read Trout by Bergman. 
E.P. Dutton & Co., Inc. 
Rig for a dapping fly and a sinking fly (or bait). 
Chapter 5 illustrated ways to use sunken baits with plastic 
floats. A question often asked is whether or not these 
little floats are practical for use with flies for trout. We 
could give the question a quick brushoff by saying that 
artificial flies should be used only with fly-fishing tackle, 
but this may not suit spinning and spincasting fishermen who 
want to try them. .. .The fisherman casts this rig upstream 
and across and takes in enough line so the dry fly is above 
water. By raising and lowering the rod tip he causes the dry 
fly to touch the water lightly and frequently as the float 
drifts downstream. Actually he is ‘‘dapping” the dry fly; 
a method as old as fly fishing itself. The fly dances on and 
just over the water, and trout very often rise up to take it. . 
. 
meanwile the nymph or wet fly is drifting down in the current 
several inches below the surface, and it is being given very 
slight motion due to the dapping of the dry fly. This is exactly 
the motion a nymph should have as it evidently is struggling 
to reach the surface. 
If a fish takes the nymph, and the take 
can't be seen, it is signaled by unusual motion of the float. 
FLY FISHING BOOKS 
A River Never Sleeps, Roderick L. Haig Brown 
Haig Brown, a famous Canadian sportsman and naturalist 
who lives on the banks of the Campbell River on Vancouver 
Island, British Columbia, is known first of all as a great 
: 
writer who writes of fishing not as a sport but 
as an art. He 
describes the wonderful experience it is to know a river and 
the rhythms of life in it. He knows the Campbell intimately 
and takes you to it and other favorite Pacific Northwest 
waters month by month in pursuit of winter steelhead, spring 
sea run cutthroats, summer trout and the fall spawning salmon 
run. He has three other excellent books that | can’t resist 
suggesting that you read: Return to the River (1941) which 
is about the life cycle of a Columbia River Chinook, the 
Western Angler and A Primer of Fly Fishing, one of the best 
“How To” books for beginners and experts written. The 
above are out of print, but are available for $15.00 or less 
in old book stores, or from the Angler’s and Shooter’s 
Book Shelf, Goshen, Connecticut 06756, (203) 494-2500. 
. 
All are well worth the trouble in acquiring. 
His books take 
you to the river when you can’t get there yourself—— which 
is too often. 
sf 
Larger Trout for the Western Fly Fisherman by 
Charles E. Brooks, A.S. Barnes and Company, $8.50. 
For the experienced fisherman. 
Excellent on wet fly 
techniques for large trout especially in: Montana streams: the 
Madison, Firehole and Yellowstone. Also mentions the good 
old days on the Eel, Yuba, and Merced before they were 
Californicated. | 
. 
The Complete Fly Tier, Reuben Cross; Freshet Press 
1971, $7.95. 
Cross is the head of the school of east coast fly tiers like 
Harry Darbee and others in the Catskills. He details the 
steps for beginners and experts towards tying the perfect 
fly in a practical guide for dries, wets, nymphs, steamers and 
bucktails. 
Trout, Ray Bergman; Knopf 1952, $12.50. 
Originally published in 1938; revised and enlarged in 1970, 
this still is the best and most popular “How-To” fly 
fishing book written. Bergman covers the fundamentals of 
dry, wet, nymph and streamer fly fishing in clear simple 
language. The first book you should read, beginner or expert. 
McClane’s Standard Fishing Encyclopedia and 
International Angling Guide, Ed. A. J. McClane 1965, 
$19.95, Holt Rinehart & Winston. 
This guide written by A.J. McClane, fishing editor of 
Field and Stream Magazine, is the Larousse of fishing. 
McClane supervised 141 angling experts and marine scientists 
to describe over 1,000 species of fish throughout the world, 
with specific information on the waters of the 50 states, 
Canada, Europe, South America, Africa, the Bahamas, New 
Zealand and Australia. Techniques for all conceivable types 
of fishing are described with complete courses on rod 
building, scuba diving, fly tying, marine biology, raising 
- The author also includes a complete state by state list of 
‘trout’ diet under normal conditions. Three hundred insects | 
‘ 
—AP 
% ice break-up and how same can be used advantageously 
__ by the fisherman— yawn!—— it’s in there. Fifteen 
bucks gets you a lot of information. 
—AP 
a 
The Stream 
|
Conservation 
)
Handbook 
|
Michael Migel, Ed. 
|
1974; 292pp. 
Fishing 
“ 
$7.95 postpaid 
Joseph D. Bates, Jr. 
Ai be cae 3 
from: 
1973; 718pp. 
a 
Crown Pub. 
$14.95 postpaid 
419 Park Ave. South 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
In addition to the formidable barriers posed by the dams an 
their turbines and impoundments, an even,graver threat hang 
over the river's fish populations: 
the little understood 
Poisoning of water known as nitrogen supersaturation. 
Few 
fishermen have heard of it, but it is a deadly killer. 
Fireside Angler 
Nicely done 100 page catalog of good quality tackle mostly 
for the fly angler. 
Includes fly-tying materials and supplies, 
rod blanks and components, reels, tackle boxes, creel!s, 
vests and other gear plus a fair listing of books. 
—AP 
Fireside Angler 
P.O. Box 823 
Melville, NY 11746 
bait fish, and fish cookery. A good resource book you 
can always get answers from and one that distracts you, with 
color plates, drawings and diagrams of fish, flies, filleting, 
entomology, into a whole night of reading each time you lod 
something up. 
: 
ie the Hatch, Ernest G. Schwiebert, MacMillan, 
7.50. 
A basic and complete guide to applied entomology that 
tells fly fishermen what insects hatch at what time of day 
during spring, summer, and fall on eastern and western rivers. 
Color prints, sketches, and black & white prints depict the 
insects. 
Basic data on 46 mayflies, 19 stone flies and 20 
caddises is tabulated in the back of the book: genus, 
species, water types they are found in, emergence times 
and appropriate imitations. A fundamental book and stil! 
the best written on the subject. 
A Modern Dry Fly Code, Vincent Marinard; Crown, 
$10.00. 
: 
First published twenty years ago and now available from 
Crown MacMillan for $10.00, the Dry Fly Code is an 
excellent guide for fly fishing spring creeks and limestone 
streams, where long fine leaders, tiny flies, and exact imi- 
tations are needed. An extraordinary sequence of photo- 
graphs shows a trout rising to natural insects. This 
revolutionary book started the whole trend of careful 
study and imitation of natural insects. 
In it, the author 
develops terrestrial as well as aquatic patterns that imitate 
the minutiae trout feed on in clear streams—— the famous 
midge and jassid patterns among others. 
Trout Fishing, Joe Brooks; Harper Row, $8.95. 
A study of all aspects of trout fishing, with colorful tales of 
fishing the world’s great rivers with the world’s great anglers. 
Brooks is excellent on casting techniques and has two 
important chapters on the playing and landing of fish, and 
the art of wading—— seldom discussed, but critical subjects. 
reliable fly tiers and fishing tackle dealers he has Known and 
dealt with over the years. 
Salt Water Fly Fishing, George X. Sand; Knopf, $8.95. 
An old pro and pioneer with fly rod in salt water tells you 
how to and where to fly fish in your local ocean: 
for stripe 
bass in San Francisco Bay or Coos Bay, Oregon, for bonefish 
and tarpon in Florida, for sharks and bottom fish wherever 
you might fish in the ocean, and countless others including 
flounder, saiifish, tarpon, sea trout and marlin. Much detailé 
local information for both coasts is included drawing on 
well-known_-local fishermen who developed the techniques—~ 
a very useable book. 
Nymphs, Ernest Schwiebert; Winchester Press, $9.95. 
Nymphs is a monumental reference work on the immature 
stages of aquatic fly hatches that make up 90% of the 
