A very fine conversion that turns a VW Beetle into a sort of 
good and only weighs 30 Ibs more than the body it replaces. 
Wind wander is reduced too. Test car still gets 27mpg. You 
make it yourself for about $400.00. 
va 
—JB 
BugVan Plans 
$10.00 
from: 
Basic Designs, Inc. 
3000 Bridgeway 
Sausalito, CA 94965 
Emergency Roadside Troubleshooting 
A single big illustrated sheet that folds up to glove 
compartment size. It has the clearest instructions for 
getting a car running again I’ve ever seen. Written for 
the mechanical dunce in a logical sequence pattern so 
diagnosis and field repair (if possible) can be accomplished 
easily. A good thing to have aboard. 
—JB 
Emergency Roadside 
Troubleshooting 
$.79 
from: 
ves 
j 
{no 
Tum engine 
off. Remove 
dip 
stick (18). ts oil level above 
lowest indicating 
mark? 
XYZYX Information Corp. 
21116 Vanowen 
Canoga Park, CA 91303 
or Whole Earth 
Carefree Cooling 
A trick used by Citroen owners for many years is to 
fill a car’s cooling system with a mixture of 50% de- 
ionized water (available at many pharmacies) and 
50% Telar brand anti-freeze. Corrosion is apparently 
eliminated, even on cars with aluminum heads and 
radiators. The water in our car is the water that came 
in it 7 years and 177,000 miles ago. There is no 
visible corrosion, nor have we replaced or serviced 
any cooling system part in that time! Everything is 
still working fine. (Telar changes color if the Ph goes 
over the edge.) This mixture should work in 2-fluid 
solar collectors too. 
—JB 
Volkswagen Official Service Manual 
eee of the excellent Bentley service manuals.- (See Pg. 
43, 
‘ 
= 
—JB 
® Volkswagen | 
Volkswagen Official 
Service Manual 
(Station Wagon/Bus 
1968-1974) 
Volkswagen of America 
1974; 419pp. 
$9.95 postpaid 
from: 
Robert Bentley, Inc. 
872 Massachusetts Ave. 
Cambridge, MA 02139 
or your VW dealer 
or Whole Earth 
pus that'll easily sleep 2 and a lot of gear. It looks exceptionally 
THE ANAL ROBERTS REVIVAL 
Sawdust provides the carpeting inside the mammoth 
circus tent. 
The organist is playing a medley of popular religious 
songs ranging from J Believe to I Don’t Know How to Love 
Him to Phil Ochs’ version of The Crucifixion. 
Members of the congregation keep looking around 
hoping to see others they know sitting in the rows upon 
rows of wooden folding chairs ali facing a speaker's 
platform above which are hung crutches, braces and 
wheelchairs as tangible testimony to past faith healings. 
Tongue Fu and Rosebud Zwalyimeh sit thoughtfully 
munching a mixture of sunflower seeds, raisins and 
powdered psylocybin. 
The master of ceremonies introduces a retired rock’n’roll 
star who speaks with a static enthusiasm as though he were 
reading from non-existent cue cards. 
““1 once had what | thought was everything. Money. Fame. 
Power. But something was lackihg in my life. | didn’t know 
what. | would travel with my band from city to city. We had 
our own bus. Our road manager always arranged for us to 
‘stay at a Holiday Inn. It was like our home. Everything was 
the same. The same interior decoration. The same food. Even 
the disinfectant they cleaned the rooms with smelled the 
same. The audiences were the same. The groupies were the 
same. The drugs were the same. 
“And then one day | was bored, as usual. | got stoned 
but that didn’t help. Something made me open the drawer 
and start reading the motel Bible. | really got into the New 
Testament, which inspired me to write a hit song. You may 
remember it: Daylight Saviour Time. But the more | 
performed it at concerts the more | realized how 
hypocritical my success was. So | quit show business and 
joined the Anal Roberts Crusade. And I'd like to sing it for 
you here at this great revival meeting. | hope you'll clap 
hands and join in on the chorus.” 
Useta be depraved, now I’m saved, now I’m saved 
Useta be enslaved, now with Christ my heart is paved 
Anal Roberts himself— with massive chest, jutting jaw 
and arcing pompadour— paces around, microphone in fist, 
resembling a nervous centaur on a leash. Combining the 
laying on of hands with the proper patter, he seems to 
transfer his vibrant energy, one after another, to each 
individual who walks, hobbles or is wheeled up a ramp onto 
the platform from a long line of diseased and crippled 
hopefuls. 
He heals the gout and the goiter. He restores hearing and 
makes piles disappear. He brings Saint Vitus Dance to a halt 
and relieves the heartbreak of psoriasis. He cures migraines 
and eurenesis alike. 
Finally Rosebud Zwalyimeh approaches Anal Roberts. 
“Ah, yes, young lady, you look pretty healthy to me. 
Exactly what is the nature of your affliction?” 
“| have an unwanted pregnancy.” 
“Hmmmmm. That’s the strangest request I’ve had since 
1 was once asked to cure an entire lame duck Congress.” He 
puts one hand on her abdomen. “Oh, Gawd,” he pleads 
into the microphone, “heal this delayed menstruation!” His 
whole body is trembling uncontrollably. ““ Yes, Gawd, | feel 
your strength surging through me now. Heal! Heal! Heal! 
Tongue Fu watches with a certain sense of bewilderment 
Flashiebackie: 
: 
~ 
Post-adolescent Tongue Fu, walking along the beach, 
automatically stoops to pick up a piece of glass and places 
it in the pail he now carries for this purpose. 
“Put it back in the sand, Anteater,” says Luke Warm 
Sake. 
; 
“But, years ago, Say When Daddy taught me to practice 
such responsibility.” His shaved head glistens in the sun. 
“It is second nature to me now.” 
“Precisely why you must unlearn that lesson. It is just 
as second nature for others to leave a piece of glass in the 
sand. When you learn also to experience their conditioning 
by reversing your own, you will begin to make awareless 
choices.” 
“But have | not already been making ethical choices?” 
“To survive, Anteater, you must take nothing for granted. 
Remember that all of the others believe their choices are 
ethical too. That is their means of survival.” 
They continue walking. Tongue Fu sees the jagged rusty 
top of a tin can. He automatically stoops to pick it up. As 
he is putting it into his pail, Luke Warm Sake taps him on 
the arm and quietly waves his forefinger in the air. 
iL 
ns 
ah 
AT 
“Oops. | have forgotten with much hurry.” 
“Try and focus your bellybutton on each instant. That 
is the reason we tattoo the third eye on a Patoonga priest.” 
“But tell me, Luke Warm Sake, will | not begin to take 
my focusing for granted?” 
“Then you must focus on your very act of focusing, 
Anteater.” 
“ And will that give me cosmic perspective?” 
“It will get you high...” 
“You must be born again”— Anal Roberts is delivering 
his sermon now— “‘and Jeezus has to be your midwife! 
Jeezus is available for each one of us if we only knew where 
to look! People nowadays think that the Messiah is gonna 
appear on The Dating Game! But I'm here to tell you that 
the place to look for Jeezus is up your ass!” 
“Hallelujah!” voices in the congregation respond. 
“"Yes, | said Jeezus is up your ass! And we all know that 
in our secret heart of hearts! | have never met a single human 
being who didn’t stick their finger up their ass when they 
were alone and then proceed to smell their finger! | have 
only met human beings who won't admit they do it!” 
“Amen!” voices in the congregation respond. 
“But Jeezus stuck his finger up his ass and smelled it 
for all of us! That is an act of humility! That is an act of 
acceptance! That is an act of surrender! That is an act of 
Jeezus! When we stick our fingers up our asses and then 
smell our fingers, we are acting just as Jeezus did!” 
“Praise the Lord!” voices in the congregation respond. 
“I'm going to ask you to come forward now, up here 
around this platform, walking with your fingers up your 
asses! Do you want to feel the compassion of Jeezus? Then 
| urge you to stick your finger up your ass and smell it! 
Come on, make that commitment to Jeezus now! Don’t be 
embarrassed to do this in front of your friends!” 
Members of the congregation are streaming down the 
aisles with fingers up their asses and tears in their eyes. 
“That’s the way! Nothing to be ashamed of! | feel sorry 
for those of you who don’t have the courage to admit 
publicly— in front of strangers— what you do privately. 
Let’s be open about our humanity! Let's stick those fingers 
up our asses and smell ‘em good! Let's decide to identify 
with Jeezus and change our lives! We're all gonna smell “em 
together!” 
Additional converts keep joining the flow; many with 
such anxiety that it appears they are pushing themselves 
with their inserted fingers. 
The organist accompanies the retired rock'n’roll star as 
he bellows with magnificent vibrato the song J Found Jesus 
in a Dingleberry. 
““Now let us bow our heads. Let us take our fingers out 
of our asses. Let us smell them and let us feel the joy of 
Jeezus as we do.” 
Still seated, Tongue Fu reaches underneath, sticks his 
finger up his ass and smells it. 
Rosebud, however, sticks her finger up her vagina. Then 
she removes her finger, holds it up and smells the drop of 
blood on the tip. 
Tongue Fu reaches across with his tongue and licks the 
drop of blood off the tip of her finger. 
Rosebud smiles as they share this moment of intimacy. 
[Continued, page 703] 
E ARRIVALS. 
669 
SUI
WON
