nil 
De Pree cs ch 
samen 
we 
co 
theta 
§ 
LU 
e best all round sailing magazine on the market—— good 
icles, good graphics, educational and stimulating reading 
t about every month. Save all your copies. 
—AP 
Sail Magazine 
Murray L. Davis, Ed. 
Monthly 
$10.50 /yr. 
from: 
Sail Magazine 
Subscription 
Processing Center 
126 Blaine Ave. 
Marion, Ohio 43302 
e skillful sailors of China’s junks have their own 
nvictions: the lug is the ultimate sail now as it has been 
r centuries. Changes are neither expected nor wanted. 
e lug’s virtues are many. It is the flattest and most easily 
efed or doused sail yet devised. It is economical because 
e strength of the battens allows a lighter weight sailcloth 
be used. And, if one battened section tears, only that 
tion needs to be replaced or patched. Even if a junkman 
too poor for patches, his battens will hold the tatters 
gether well enough for the sail to draw. Finally, a man 
puld use the battens to climb aloft, omitting the need 
br ratlines. 
ter | had let go the bower anchor with plenty of chain | 
n out the kedge with the dinghy in the opposite direction 
otted its warp to the chain, and paid out another fathom 
both so that the yacht should remain tightly moored and 
pt be able to swing to any direction from which the wind 
ight blow; after that | had a chance to look about me... 
. 
the morning an onshore breeze made and | ought to have 
t while | could, but very soon that was not possible as 
e wind increased to a moderate gale, raising a short-steep 
ga in the entrance. Presently the wind veered a little, died 
an uncanny moment, and then the first of the squalls 
ell upon us. This blew not from a horizontal but from a 
ertical direction; it laid my little vessel over so far that 
er rail was under water, and, shrieking with delight, it 
nned her there. 
SAIL TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES 
by Mary Crowley 
e ocean is a superb place for learning. By virtue of the 
its of a ‘ship island’ a sense of community and the 
owledge of how to work within a group and get along 
ith people are fostered. A shipboard environment makes 
ach person aware of the need for sharing and participation. 
e combination of the special qualities of life at sea and 
he challenge of the ocean itself, gives questing people a 
jatchless learning and community living experience. Some 
hoolship programs emphasise sail training and marine 
‘aditions while others maintain more of a traditional 
ademic structure. There is some emphasis on the 
Perience of sailing to various countries and cultures. 
elow is a list of some schoolship opportunities. Currently 
am looking into these ventures and further details and 
Omments such as prices, dates and quality of programs 
ill be available. The quality of schoolship programs does 
ery depending naturally on current administration, crew 
id staff. Please do not consider the list below a 
commendation but rather just a source of reference. After 
urther inquiry | will be happy to pass on more details about 
@ programs which offer the best seafaring and educational 
Periences. | would also be interested in receiving detailed 
formation from any programs not included in this list. 
efer any correspondence to Mary Crowley, 1709 Bridgeway, 
Busalito, California 94965. 
: 
D 
ATES 
ORGANIZATIONS: 
CEANIC SOCIETY, Bldg. 240, Fort Mason, San 
ancisco, CA 94123, Phone: 415-441-5970. 
‘S. is currently working with 4 vessels involved in 
ducational programming and expeditions. The TARA is 
Perating in Australia and Melanesia; the MOONWIND in 
elize, British Honduras; the MARABELL in British 
olumbia; and NEW WORLD in the Hawaiian Islands. 
ur program will be expanding in 1975 to include other 
iling and schoolship opportunities. The Oceanic Society 
interested in helping other organizations further schoolship 
@ 
nd at present is acting as a clearing house for 
in this field. 
Cream Rises 
SAILING 
The Glenans Sailing Manual 
The small-boat classic 
288 
Cruising Under Sail 
The Standard Text 290 
Basic Sailing Good intro 
649 
Windsurfer 
Minimax sailing 645 
Basic Sailing 
This was the best sailing instruction book for the tyro when 
it first came out in 1965, and it still is—— even better now 
that it’s been revised. A bargain at twice the price, and the 
reason is the profusion of well-done illustrative material, 
particularly the line drawings and the succinct editorial 
presentation. Covers everything you need to know. Easy 
to read, easy to understand, easy to learn from. 
Recommended as your first purchase if you‘re just getting 
into sailing. 
—AP 
Basic Sailing 
M.B. George 
1971; Rev. Ed., 
109pp. 
$2.50 
postpaid 
from: 
Motor Boating & 
Sailing Books 
Hearst Books 
P.O. Box 2316 
FDR Station 
New York, NY 
10022 
or Whole Earth 
GOOD 
LEN 
OUT HAUL 
t 
Cleat 
OUT HAUL LINE 
Th 
Outhaul end of boom showing typical arrangements. Notice straight line of foot 
rope and sail to outhaul. The clew here is free from wrinkles. Compare with 
neighboring drawing (Bap); there outhaul is not of proper size or in proper 
position. A bend in the sail and bolt rope occurs, causing wrinkles at the clew. 
AMERICAN SAILING EDUCATION ASSOCIATION 
3 School St., Boston, MA 02108 
S.E.A. operates the 100 ft. auxiliary schooner WESTWARD in 
cooperation with Boston University. They jointly sponsor 
5 annual courses of academic and practical instruction in 
seamanship, navigation, marine sciences and environmental 
monitoring. Accommodates 20 apprentices from the age of 
16 and up. 
THE OCEANICS SCHOOL OF NEW YORK 
145 E. 74th St., New York, NY 10021 
The Oceanics operates two 5 month sessions beginning 
September 9, 1974 and February 5, 1975. Accommodations 
for 90 - 100 students in each academic term on board the 
316 ft. 3 masted bark STATSRAAD LEMKHUL. In 
addition to regular academic courses, there are sail training 
programs and exploration of the cultures and countries 
visited. 
TABOR ACADEMY 
Marion, MA 02738 
The Tabor Academy operates a sail training program as 
part of their regular curriculum. Students experience their 
initiation to sailing on one of the 2 smaller cruising sailboats 
and advance to the 92’ schooner TABOR BOY. Oceanographic 
Program in association with Woods Hole. 
AMERICAN SAIL TRAINING ASSOCIATION (ASTA) 
Banister’s Wharf, Newport, R.!. 02840 
ASTA is associated with England’s Sail Training Association 
and helps fill current ships—— BILL OF RIGHTS, 
SHENENDOAH, ETC. with students. 
THE FLINT SCHOOL 
7734 South Tamiami Trail 
Sarasota, FL 33581 
A very good collection of tid-bit type information on boats, 
designs, surveying, construction, safety equipment, emergency 
maneuvers (capsizing, running aground, fire, etc) weather, 
storm seamanship and heavy weather rigs that it would take 
the average sailor years of sailing on many different boats in 
a variety of situations to accumulate. The emphasis is on 
knowing what to look for or prethinking a potential 
situation to avoid trouble. 
There is a lot of good information 
in the book, and by the same token a lot of good info that 
should be there is missing. 
For example, after searching 
through the index, “Working Aloft,” “Injuries from Lines,” 
and “Running Rigging and Related Fittings,” | wasn’t able 
to find word one on inspecting rope (manila, cotton, nylon, 
etc.) for wear, and damage—— and Jack, rope ain’t no minor 
detail on a sailing vessel! 
Wait for a reprint edition by Crown Publishers, then pick it 
up for $4.95—— Damn good book! 
—AP 
Sea Sense 
Richard Henderson 
1972; 307pp. 
$12 50 postpaid 
from: 
International Marine 
Pub., Inc. 
21 Elm 
Camden, ME 04843 
or Whole Earth 
Before giving a new or used boat a detailed examination, the 
prospective buyer should give her a general, over-all, sizing-up. 
He should observe her lines, rig, cabin house, accommodations, 
cockpit, bright work, general appearance, state of upkeep, 
condition of equipment, and so forth. He should observe 
the fairness of her topsides, and look at ner trim to see if she 
is listed or floating down by the head or stern. If she is a fairly 
small boat, the prospective buyer should notice how much 
she heels when he steps aboard at her rail, for this will give 
some small indication of her stability. It is a good idea to 
bounce up and down on one’s feet while walking across the 
deck to test its sturdiness. Of course, all deck gear and 
mechanical devices should be looked over, altnough later 
all mechanical and electronic equipment should be carefully 
examined by a surveyor or marine technician. Particular 
notice should be taken of the joiner work, as this is 
indicative of the degree of care taken in the boat’s entire 
construction. As designer-sailmaker Ted Hood has said, 
“The things you can see are an indication of the things you 
can't see.” 
CANADA 
TORONTO BRIGANTINE ASSOCIATION, 
P.O. Box 1035, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
The Toronto Brigantine Association pursue their motto 
“building character through adventure” by providing 
opportunity for sail training to students aboard their 60° 
brigantine PATHFINDER. 
UNITED KINGDOM 
SAIL TRAINING ASSOCIATION OF ENGLAND 
The STA Schooners, Bosham, Chichester, Sussex, ENGLAND 
The STA operates the schooners SIR WINSTON CHURCHILL 
and MALCOLM MILLER on 1, 2 and 3 week sail training 
courses for young people. Trainees must be at least 16 and 
under 21. There are also a few adult courses available. These 
trips operate year round. 
OCEAN YOUTH CLUB 
1 Oak St., Gosport, Hampshire, ENGLAND 
OYC provides sailing experiences for young people ona 
variety of vessels. 
YOUNG MARINERS INTERNATIONAL 
58 Woodville Road 
New Barnet, Herts, ENGLAND 
YM is a volunteer and enthusiastic international organization 
of people who deeply believe in sail training and square 
riggers, and whose aim is to provide both youth and adults 
‘ith the opportunity to participate in the running of the 
world’s great square rigged ships. 
NEW ZEALAND 
SPIRIT OF ADVENTURE 
C.P.0. Box 4071 
Auckland, New Zealand 
SPIRIT OF ADVENTURE is a 90 ft. auxiliary ketch that 
accommodates 30 students on 12 day adventure and study 
cruises. Program includes instruction in seamanship, 
navigation, engineering, marine biology and allied subjects. 
Program open primarily to secondary school students but 
activities may be planned for other age groups. 
SOIT
WON
