, overly permissive, or oscillating between the 
, this book presents a systematic way to 
rental style. Called a “‘no-lose” method for 
y and generational conflict, Parent Effectiveness 
hes “active listening’’—— the language of 
were resolved in creative and healthy ways, using 
ues which are spelled out in detail in this book. 
—DH 
Poel 
(Parent Effectiveness 
Training: The tested 
new way to raise 
responsible children) 
Dr. Thomas Gordon 
1970; 338pp. 
" 
$7.95 postpaid 
from: 
Peter H. Wyden, Inc. 
David McKay Co., Inc. 
750 Third Ave. 
New York, NY 10017 
os 
nS 
alee 
or Whole Earth 
To Bitls* 
pr Then 4 
ey first try active listening, some parents start to use 
n the door for their children to communicate, but 
y slam the door shut because they do not keep up the 
istening long enough to hear the child out completely. 
Ying, ‘‘Come on, tell me what you feel, I'll under- 
Then, when the parent hears what the child feels, he 
Ted y: No. !’m going to bust him right in the mouth. 
:_ Now, that wouldn't be a nice thing todo. [EVALU- 
| don’t care. 
I'd like to punch him like this [swinging 
r: Teddy, fighting is never a good way to solve con- 
s with your friends. [MORALIZING.] Why don’t you go 
< and tell him you'd like to make up? [ADVISING, 
OFFERING SOLUTIONS. ] 
y: Are you kidding? [Silence.] 
i 
e 
If 
parents could learn only one thing from this book, | wish it 
were 
this: Each and every time they force a child to do 
ething by using their power or authority, they deny that 
a 
chance 
to learn self-discipline and self-responsibility. 
Charles, a seventeen-year-old son of two very strict 
parents who used their power constantly to get 
do his homework, made this admission; 
ver my parents are not around, | find it 
sible to pull myself out of the chair in front 
TV set. | am so used to their making me go 
jomework, | cannot find within myself any 
make me go do it when they are not at home.” 
y doubled. Smart move. 
effective parenting, teaching, managing, counseling 
naning communications and problem solving skills 
Dr. Thomas Gordon's Effectiveness Training 
They'll teach you what you need to know 
{ at meeting needs—— yours and others. There 
courses for the different areas above, with 
— 
aterials, lengths, and costs. 
ed in ET work. They did for my parents, 
rothers and sisters and our friends. Write 
, they'll get you in touch with a local 
ess Training Associates, Inc. 
clid Ave. 
— 
Peace, 
‘ 
Kristen Klawson 
The Day Care Book 
Contains much of the contemporary wisdom on the politics 
and sociology of day care. 
It is oriented towards parents, 
concerned citizens who want access to information and 
funding for their own programs, who want to explore options 
for sharing child-care, and who are open to looking at 
promising models in other countries. 
It is a realistic and 
exciting book which questions traditional assumptions about 
sex-role stereotyping, relationships between kids and adults, 
institutional goals vs. peoples’ goals, etc. 
The resources section at the end includes information on 
licensing, budget, funding sources, equipment and materials 
suggestions and a full annotated bibliography. 
The format 
is lively; the attitudes clearheaded and caring. 
—Marcia Perlstein 
$3.95 
postpaid 
The Day Care Book 
(The Why, What, and How _— from: 
of Community Day Care) 
Vicki Breitbart 
1974; 211 pp. 
Alfred A. Knopf, Inc. 
457 Hahn Rd. 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
There is little doubt that a child needs love, affection, con- 
sistent care, guidance, and physical and intellectual stimu- 
lation. The controversy is not around what the child needs 
How to Father 
Men... have been taught to believe that too much involvement 
in the upbringing of their children is somehow unmanly and 
likely to compromise their masculinity. 
But for the man willing to take the plunge into active father- 
hood, here is help—— organized in sections from infancy 
through late adolescence—— read as they grow. Dodson’s 
child rearing techniques include active listening and no-lose 
conflict resolution. 
Fathers are advised to make distinc- 
tions between a child’s feelings and actions: A child can 
learn to control his actions, but he cannot learn to control 
Suggestions are practical—— 
How to tella story: ...hamit up! Put in lots of funny 
sounds and noises. 
Use a simple trick of the public speaker: 
‘raise or lower your voice dramatically at times. 
Let your 
child move the story along by asking him from time to time, 
“And what do you think happened next?’’ Never fear—— 
he will tell you! 
—— and human—— 
If you're playing in the sand pile with your child but having 
a miserable time because that’s just not your cup of tea, 
then don’t do it! Your child will sense your discomfort 
and will not gain much from the time you spend together. 
Resourceful appendices: 
toys and play equipment (some to 
make), book lists (65pp. classified for age/subject), records, 
and other books and sources for the man hooked on active 
fathering. 
Men who value wives and daughters will recognize Dodson’s 
chauvinism in his advocacy of traditional women’s roles for 
daughters/wives—— a rather inconsistent position for a 
psychologist advocating male involvement in the traditionally 
‘female world of child rearing. Liberated men will look else- 
where for supplementary feminist material. 
—Betty Moss 
When telling children about the divorce, remember the legal 
oath, ‘’To tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but 
the truth.”” Adopt part of this oath as a guideline for what 
you tell the children. Be sure to tell the truth and nothing 
-but the truth. Children can take the truth much better than 
we think, but lies will only cause them to lose faith in you. 
And children are very quick to detect when they are being 
lied to. However, this doesn’t mean you must tell a child 
“the whole truth.’” The gruesome details of what caused your 
marriage to break up are irrelevant. 
1. The Stage of Toddlerhood (approximately from first to 
second birthday.) 
A. Books for “Labeling the Environment” 
At this age a ““’book”’ is not something that contains a 
Cream Rises 
PARENTING 
Baby and Child Care 
Granddaddy of ‘em all 366 
How to Parent 
Parenting from birth to six 
366 
How to Father 
Basics for Dads 
711 
P.E.T. 
Revamping parental style 
711 
as much as how, where, and by whom she or he is going to 
get it. As Margaret Mead has pointed out: 
Actually, anthropological evidence gives no support 
at present to the value of such an accentuation of the 
tie between mother and child. 
. 
. 
. On the contrary, 
cross-cultural studies suggest that adjustment is most 
facilitated if the child is cared for by many warm, 
friendly people. 
DN
How to Father 
Dr. Fitzhugh Dodson 
1974; 520pp. 
$8.95 postpaid 
from: 
Nash Publishing Corp. 
E.P. Dutton & Co. Inc. 
201 Park Ave. S. 
New York, NY 10003 
or Whole Earth 
POLIOM 
VOOGLYLL 
IY 
/ LE4VEA 
OQ 
AHS 
continuous narrative story, but something with pictures of 
people or objects, and words labeling those people or objects. 
Books are useful devices at this age to help your child play 
the “label the environment”’ game we discussed in the chapter 
on toddlerhood. 
Books for this age should be sturdy affairs, of cardboard or 
cloth, because the first thing your toddler will probably do 
with these beginning books is put them in his mouth. 
1. Sears or Montgomery Ward catalog, trading stamp catalogs, 
or toy catalogs. Although ordinarily not thought of as books, 
these catalogs are ideal for playing the “label the environment” 
Lathan And who cares if a few pages get torn out here and 
there? 
2. Best Word Book Ever, Richard Scarry (Western Pub- 
lishing). This book is one of the best investments a parent 
could ever make for a toddler. When you have finished 
playing the ‘‘label the environment” game with this book, 
with its 1,400 gaily illustrated objects with words to match, 
your child will have a vocabulary of 
1,400 words. A 
terrific boost to his language development! 
Uniquely 
appealing animals are pictured in all kinds of activities 
related to a young child’s experience and interest. This 
book can be used for several years with a young child. 
3. The Cat in the Hat Beginner Book Dictionary, Dr. Seuss 
(Random House). Another excellent picture dictionary to 
play “label the environment.” Funny pictures and a phrase 
show the meaning of 1,000 words in Dr. Seuss’s inimitable 
style. You can read it to your child when he is a toddler. 
And he can read it himself in the first three grades of 
school. 
4. My First Book and My First Toys (Platt and Munk). 
Extra sturdy, vividly colored books. 
Each page clearly 
pictures three objects you can point to and teach your 
toddler to name. 
: 
