i Wine-Making 
“At Home. 
g. 
jeer 
ome i 
HOME WINEMAKING BOOKS 
by Mike Palmer 
hen the spell of Prohibition was lifted from America 
ghtly more than 40 years ago, only one adequate book 
home winemaking (to my knowledge) was in general 
stribution: American Wines and How to Make Them by 
ilip M. Wagner (now out of print). Most wine ‘‘recipes”’ 
that era were so vague or misleading that brewing of a 
inkable concoction had to be the result of mere good 
rtune. 
The early mountain people made their wines by placing 
e fruit or berries in a crock or wooden cask and then 
ting nature take over the fermentation,” explains Paul 
Mahan in one of the recent books on the subject, Smoky 
ountain Wines. ‘‘Many of their wines would eventually 
lur and turn to vinegar, which accounts for their calling 
ne ‘sour water.’ ”’ 
Dw, in our ecologically-aware age, there is no very good 
cuse for a comletely-spoiled wine except for carelessness 
the part of the vintner. 
owledge abounds. Wagner's work is as good a general 
ide to grape winemaking as any. But those who are 
ssionate about freedom of selection can rejoice. An 
determinable but large number of books on making 
ape wine, strawberry wine, mango wine, day lily wine 
d even oat wine have riffled off publishers’ presses in the 
it few years. Our wine library runneth over. 
perusal of eight contemporary books and pamphlets on 
nemaking and brewing indicates the authors are all 
psonably well-acquainted with new equipment and 
ocedures, including use of such additives as “‘pectinaze”’ 
d “‘vitaminized yeast nutrient.’ Inaccuracies detected 
e been minor. How, then, would one choose from among 
em? It might be a matter of whim (the thought of making 
moky Mountain wines” has a certain appeal). It could 
pend on whether you want to make wine solely from 
ifornia-grown grapes or wish to experiment with such 
psants of the vegetable kingdom as parsnips and potatoes. 
€ amateur vintners ask for no more than accurate 
ections, simply stated, while others will want to know of 
ids and esters and learn the tale of titration. 
apsule guide: 
aking Mead by Bryan Acton and Peter Duncan. 1968; 
pp. $2.25pp. from: British Book Centre, Inc., 996 
xington Ave., New York, NY 10021, or Whole Earth. 
ad, or honey wine, needs special care and this is a 
prehensive guide. It also covers such honey-based 
ditional English wines as metheglin, hippocras, melomel, 
ent and cyser. 
ep by Step Winemaking by Mary Carey. 1973; 64pp. 
50 from Golden Press, Western Publishing Co., Inc. Box 
0, Racine, WI 53404 or Whole Earth. Large format book 
h considerably more illustrations than most (many in 
or). Clearly written work adequately covering basics. 
me Brewing Simplified by Dean Jones. 1970; 33pp. $.95 
M British Book Centre, Inc. 996 Lexington Ave., New 
rk, NY 10021 or Whole Earth. Those who find American 
mercial beer insipid and can’t afford imported brands 
buld consider brewing at home. It's simpler than 
emaking and this book will give you the fundamentals 
Ng with some elaborations. Incidentally, many brewmasters 
rn the traditional American Blue Ribbon malt now that 
Ported English malts are widely available. Make sure to 
eck the legal aspects in your state. 
emaking at Home by Homer Hardwick. 1954; 218pp. 
95 from: Cornerstone Library, Simon & Schuster, Inc. 
e West 39th St., New York, NY 10018, Attn: Order 
pt., or Whole Earth. Fairly comprehensive work by an 
oan who has been making wine for nearly 40 years. Some 
J recipes, 
says the blurb. It could be a bit more up-to- 
€—— for instance, use of Bentonite and Sparkalloid in 
Ng is not discussed. 
' 
an 
HOME WINEMAKING SUPPLIERS 
by Mike Palmer 
Most shops catering to the home winemaker carry a good 
range of supplies—— yeast, concentrates, sodium bisulfite, 
Pectic enzymes, etc. If there’s an item of this sort not 
carried by your usual supplier, 
‘try Rockridge Laboratories. 
There appears to be considerable variation among these firms 
in selection of equipment, such as crushers, presses and 
barrels. Some may carry only two or three small presses—— 
very slow for those making wine in large batches—— others 
will have several larger models as well. Should you want an 
item not listed in the catalogue, often’a firm will be able to 
get it on special order. 
| haven't seen every catalogue, but for those in the Northeast 
| know Vino Corporation has an excellent assortment: five 
different presses, three crusher styles, nine barrel sizes, and 
specialized equipment such as titration 
kits, a pH meter (for 
$155) and an optical saccharimeter ($60). For those in other 
Parts of the country, Wine-Art has a nice selection (if you 
order heavy items from some firms, freight may be added 
onto the price, which obviously means you'll save money if 
the shipping point is near you). I‘d also recommend The 
Compleat Winemaker in the Napa Valley. 
These suppliers are in addition to those listed on 
Pg. 203. 
Milan Laboratories 
57 Spring St. 
New York, NY 10012 
Neshaminy Valley 
Vineyards 
Box 371, Rte. 413 
Buckingham, PA 18912 
Grapes available. 
Nichols Garden Nursery 
1190 North Pacific Hwy. 
Albany, OR 97312 
Rockridge Laboratories 
P.O. Box 2842 
Rockridge Station 
Oakland, CA 94618 
Has Julius Fessler book 
and Fessler’s ““Oak-Mor” 
French white oak chips. 
F.H. Steinbart Co. 
526 S.E. Grand Ave. 
Portland, OR 97214 
Bacchanalia (new address) 
273 Riverside Ave. 
Westport, CT 06880 
The Compleat Winemaker 
1201 Main St. 
St. Helena, CA 94574 
Grapes available. Handles 
the excellent, /talian-made 
Sipi equipment, used by 
both the high-volume 
amateur winemaker and 
small commercial wineries. 
The Sipi stemmer-crusher 
is evidently the only hana- 
driven one sold in the U.S. 
Wine-Art of America, Inc. 
4324 Geary Blvd. 
San Francisco, CA 94118 
Many outlets around the 
country. 
The Wine Barrel 
Arrowhead Farms 
Box 421, Patuxent Road 
Ga 
ills, MD 
210: 
mbrills 
21054 
Continental Products 
3716 No. Sherman Drive 
Indianapolis, IN 46218 
Winecraft Winery 
8363 Center Drive 
La Mesa, CA 92041 
The Winemaker’s Shop 
Bully Hill Road, R.D. 2 
Hammondsport, NY 14840 
Jim's Home Beverage 
Supplies 
2613 N. Division 
Spokane, WA 99207 
Since ordinary metals will give wine an unpleasant taste, 
always use wood, plastic, or stainless steel implements to 
crush grapes—— or just wade in and stomp on the grapes 
with your feet! 
MAKE SAKE 
by Cecily Murphy 
In Japan, ritualistic sake drinking was a custom long before 
the tea ceremony was introduced. An important part of 
ancestral deity worship, it was one of the few Japanese 
customs that penetrated all classes—— and the liquor was 
used medicinally as well as for pleasure or ceremony. 
Today, sake costs about $3 a fifth in most liquor stores, but 
you can make it yourself for much less. Our best-tested 
recipe: Put three cups uncooked brown rice and four anda 
‘half cups sugar into a gallon jug with one package dry yeast 
and a handful of raisins. Fill with warm water, cover with a 
cloth. If you prefer a more festive approach, cap it with a 
balloon which will inflate as the sake ferments. 
Set this concoction in a warm place for 10-21 days, and it’s 
done (taste to check it). You can drink it plain or, following 
the customary method, heat it. 
Reprinted from San Francisco Bay Guardian 
Lowther Fruit Presses 
Two high-quality fruit grinder-presses, plus kits & 
plans to make your own (for less). They look 
gorgeous & make cider & wine. 
Model No. 1 
$90.00 
plus shipping 
Model No. 2 
(2/3 Press) 
$65.00 
plus shipping 
Catalog 
free 
from: 
Natural Technology 
Design 
Walcott, VT 05680 
Wine Works 
| would like to recommend that you list ‘“The Wine Works” 
at 3024 De La Vina Street in Santa Barbara, California 
(93105) as an outstanding source for mail order wine and 
beer making supplies, materials and equipment. Not only do 
they carry unusual ingredients for making exotic and healthy 
wines such as Comfrey, Cranberry Powder, Rose Buds, 
Hungarian Chamomile and Linden Flowers and Leaves, but 
sell personalized linoleum blocks for you to print your own 
labels. They are prompt and dependable, and will give answers 
to your wine making problems if you write to them. | 
recommend them very highly! 
Very truly yours, 
Lee Burnett 
South Bend, Indiana 
Smoky Mountain Wines and How to Make Them by Paul 
E. Mahan. 1973; 114pp. $5.95 from Arco Publishing Co., 
Inc., 219 Park Ave. South, New York, NY 10003 or Whole 
Earth. Not much on grapes, but advice on Producing wine 
from a wide array of common and exotic fruit, berries, grains 
and vegetables. 
Scientific Winemaking Made Easy by J.R. Mitchell. 1969; 
246pp. $3.95 from British Book Centre, 996 Lexington Ave., 
New York, NY 10021 or Whole Earth. Many English books 
on winemaking neglect grapes because the vine is ill-suited 
to the British fen and moor. This lengthy work, for example, 
doesn’t even mention use of the common grape crusher. 
However, it’s quite detailed on the subject of fruit wines 
and should fascinate the would-be chemist. Includes 
considerable material on the composition of wines as well 
as instructions for basic lab procedures. 
Wine-Making at Home by Bruce Palmer. 1972; 96pp. $2.45 
from Workman Publishing Co., 231 East 51st. St., New York, 
NY 10022 or Whole Earth. Amusing, relatively accurate 
book presenting, primarily, the author's Personal approach 
to making wine. There are other procedures than could be 
followed, but these methods should Produce a palatable 
beverage. Contains presumably useful advice on obtaining 
vinifera grapes in metropolitan areas outside California. 
Home Brewing and Wine-Making by W.H.T. Tayleur. 1973; 
336pp. $2.45 from Penguin Books, 7110 Ambassador Rd., 
Baltimore, MD 21207 or Whole Earth. Another British book, 
more than adequate but, again, not recommended for its 
coverage of grape wines. This discusses the making of nearly 
every general type of wine imaginable, including mead, 
cider, fortified wines, sparkling wines, vermouth, sherry, 
etc. The beginning home winemaker may find reassurance 
in a chapter Presenting the life stories of specific wines the 
author has vinified, including an allegedly excellent “jungle 
juice,” useful also as an aphrodisiac or as furniture polish, 
known as ‘’Cor!”' It’s customary in England, one learns, to 
drop.a few peppercorns into a wine lacking in ‘‘character’’! 
Cor! 
pF 
ALI
bi 
“, 
eS
ceaglei
ld 
) 
. : =) 
SE
Se 
BS 
1d unen
Pete
s 
