COMMUNITY 
URBAN LIVING 
086 
SOURCE Catalog No. 2: 
Communities/Housing 
Urban problems related to housing are at the heart of the 
decay of our cities: deteriorating residential neighborhoods, 
urban renewal rip-offs, unlivable public housing, denial of 
tenant rights, ghetto “redlining” by savings and loan 
companies, lack of housing for elderly and handicapped 
people—— a litany of the failure of our national and local 
housing policy. A wide range of organizations, programs and 
agencies are engaged in a struggle to reverse this accelerating 
slide of our cities into hopeless crisis. 
The Source Catalog 
provides a comprehensive review of specific aspects of the 
housing system and of groups involved in each problem area: 
their goals, tactics, action projects, successes and failures. 
In each section, helpful books and journals, legal references, 
films, and other resources are discussed. 
The format and 
coverage of the catalog are excellent; it’s an invaluable 
resource to anyone trying to organize, in a variety of positive 
ways, to rebuild our urban communities. 
—Doris Herrick 
SOURCE 
catalog 
commun ities/housing 
SOURCE, Inc. 
1972; 255pp. 
$2.95 Postpaid 
from: 
The Swallow Press, Inc. 
1139 S. Wabash Ave. 
Chicago, IL 60605 
or Whole Earth 
What happens when the tenants stand up? 
Squatting is a militant and highly illegal tactic that can be used 
by a tenant organization to dramatize a severe shortage of 
housing, to m&ke people aware of the plight of poor tenants, 
to show how much “‘low rent” housing costs; to document 
the extent of abandonment in a community or to open up 
racially or class segregated housing. Squatting has been used 
in conjunction with a campaign for rent control when 
supporters camped out several weeks in the common of 
Lynn, MA. Squatting is a risky tactic, not only in terms of 
the tenant's safety, but also because the reaction of the 
power structure and the surrounding community cannot be 
accurately predicted. 
In any case, consider the situation 
carefully before you move. 
Squatting is a very widespread phenomenon in other 
countries. Many of the large cities of Asia and Latin America 
contain hundreds of thousands of squatters. 
In Bogota, 
CITY SURVIVAL 
by Ned Cherry 
Shortly before Epilog production time | wrote Ned Cherry, a 
friend who’s lived in New York city for many years, asking 
his advice on city shelter. 
It didn’t give him enough time to 
do a thorough survey, but he sent back the following infor- 
mation, which is, as Ned says: 
“... strongly 
NYC oriented 
but could probably be applied to any city with some adjust- 
ments.” 
—Lloyd Kahn 
. 
. .Here’s a random list that could assist people in fighting 
relocation, co-oping their own buildings, rehabilitating, etc. 
1. Tenant Action—— Architects Renewal Committee in 
Harlem (ARCH) revised Jan. 73. ‘This handbook is intended 
especially for tenants & organizations of tenants in older & 
poorly maintained buildings where housing problems are a 
daily occurrence & conditions are often a serious threat to 
health and life.” ($3.00 from ARCH 221 W 116 St, NYC 
10026). 
2. Low Income Co-Op Conversions Handbook, Dec. 73, 
NYC/ (Dept. of) Housing & Development Administration. 
Goes into economics and procedures of cooperative owner- 
ship including concept of ‘sweat equity” whereby tenants 
can.contribute labor to project to reduce costs. 
(Free). 
3. The Tenant Survival Book ($3.95 paper) Bobbs-Merrill/ 
NYC ‘72, by Emily Jane Goodman. How to organize in 
fighting the enemy: 
the real estate system. Very good book 
from NYC, where things are heaviest. 
—LK 
4. Super Tenant ($2.95 paper) ‘NYC tenant handbook—— 
your legal rights & how to use them” by John M. Striker 
& Andrew O. Shapiro. Brownstone Books NYC/1973. 
Good tenants how to do it book/can be applied to any city 
bureaucracy. 
f 
5. Neighborhood Preservation (in New York City) NYC 
Planning Commission; Oct 1973. Good for historical 
development of tenements and laws that affected their 
chance. Also on need for rehabilitation of slum housing 
which is currently ‘“‘the only game in town.” (Free) 
SOURCE Catalog No. 2: 
Communities/Housing 
Colombia, for example, squatters have occupied whole city 
blocks which were once vacant, set up miniature cities 
almost overnight and stayed on the land for years, eventually 
getting their own sewers and running water, schools, etc. 
Manila, in the Phillipines, is estimated to have over a half 
million squatters, many living on piers out into the ocean. 
The repair provision in HUD’‘s grievance procedures obligates 
the housing authority to maintain your home in a decent, safe 
and sanitary condition according to the housing code require- 
ments.. When management doesn’t respond to long-neglected 
repairs, you don’t have to respond to the rent. This “rent 
abatement”’ is possible when: 
1. There exists in your apartment a defect or defects 
hazardous to life, health and safety. 
2. You request in writing repair of the defect or defects. 
3. The housing authority, within 72 hours, neither repairs 
nor gives you a reasonable substitute apartment. 
4. It was possible for the housing authority to make the 
repair or give you a substitute apartment. 
If the above four conditions are met you owe no rent, until 
the defect/defects hazardous to life, health, and safety are 
repaired. 
Cartoon by Boston Area Tenants 
6. Remodeling Old Houses (without destroying their 
character) Geo Stephen, Alfred Knopf/NYC 1972. Good 
information on rehabilitating anything from brownstones 
to tenements, and old wood frame houses as well. ($3.95) 
Paper. 
7. The Restoration Manual, Orin M. Bullock, Jr. “A 
clear description of steps and procedures essential to 
authentic restoration of buildings of all kinds.”’ Silvermine 
Publishers, Inc., Norwalk, CT 1966. Some good historical 
information. 
Nice drawings, good bibliography within. 
($8.50 hardback; paper?). 
8. Residential Rehabilitation, William W. Nash. McGraw, 
Hill, NYC 1959 (Hardbound $8.00). Good, but dated 
rehabilitation bibliography. .Good early information, 
economics (subtitled ‘Private Profits and Public Purposes.” 
Sort of presents the case for rehab back in ‘59. Too bad 
more people didn’t read it then. 
9. Pratt Guide to Planning & Renewal for New Yorkers, 
($5.95 paper). By Ropert Alpern. NY Times Book Company 
(Quadrangle, copyright, Pratt Institute), 1973. Goes into 
programs available, housing, health, etc. Sort of defines 
programs as they are intended to work and then evaluates 
them in terms of “the reality” as to why they don’t work. 
Noise 
What makes noise and why; how our ears work; a lot 
of wonderful technical information about modern no 
problems and their solutions. Enough science to be 
used as a textbook on acoustics, enough art to read 
like a good story. 
—DB 
[Suggested by Craig Schenste 
Noise 
Rupert Taylor 
1970; 268pp. 
$1 .85 postpaid 
from: 
Penguin Books, Inc. 
7110 Ambassador Rd. 
Baltimore, MD 21207 
or Whole Earth 
30. Ap cightlobe jet-engine silencer 
If the factory noise is a real humdinger and shutting 
windows and doors is not enough, the windows can be filled 
with glass bricks, and special doors of heavy construction 
with airtight seals may be necessary. This can bring great 
problems if there is a lot of traffic through the doors, althou 
Partial relief can be had by acoustic screening of the door 
aperture instead. On top of this, workpeople may feel 
claustrophobic with closed-up windows even if the place is 
fully air-conditioned. 
In cases like these it is as well to think 
about reducing the noise at source. 
If all else fails, as a last resort you can always stick your 
fingers in your ears. This may hamper your working capacity 
so fortunately there are ways of achieving the same thing 
while leaving the hands free to do other things. 
Hammocks 
I've given up my bed to sleep in a hammock. While away th 
afternoon dozing in a hammock that rocks you to sleep. 
Fuck in your Giant Yucatan Hammock. No backache 
because the most tension is where the most weight is: the 
trunk. And there are no worries about falling out. Imagine 
turning one of Frei Otto’s Tensile Structures upside down an 
laying in it. 
These are the people | dealt with. For sending an 8¢ stamp 
they return a brochure with prices, along with other junk 
they sell. 
rome 
—Bruce Umbarger 
Hammock Living 
1331 Columbus Ave. 
San Francisco, CA 94133 
A lot of useful information for someone who wants to kno 
why & how New York does & doesn’t work. 
10. Design Workbook for Community Participation, Resear 
Center for Urban & Environmental Planning, Princeton Uni 
1969. (Not published but available from Xerox Corp.) Lot) 
of useful information for incorporating community 
Participation/activism into design processes. 
Focuses on 
housing/planning & design. Offers a method which allows 
community people to make decisions for effecting change 
in their physical environment. 
10a. Planning & Design Workbook for Community 
Participation— An Evaluation Survey. Ibid 1973. Contains 
review of above which is huge (600 pages). 
11. Small Urban Spaces, Ed. Whitney North Seymour, Jr. 
NYU Press, 1969. ‘’The philosophy, design, sociology and 
politics of vest pocket parks and other small urban open 
spaces.’ Good stuff on community action for uses of vacan 
lots, adventure playgrounds in England, etc. 
12. Possible future information from: 
Center for Cuban 
Studies (220 E. 23 St., NYC) on people returning from 
“Mini-brigades,"’ Americans going to Cuba to assist in self- 
help housing programs, Russian pre-fab erections, etc. 
like Venceremos Brigades that went to pick/harvest sugar. 
Reports on recent brigades could be forthcoming. Have 
friend who just returned. 
13. Housing Quality Study, published by Urban Design 
Council, ‘73 (51 Chambers St., NYC, free). Pretty good on 
new housing design. 
Book for my course at Pratt which is excellent is United 
Nations publication entitled Climate Control for Low 
Income Housing. Good book on some indigenous solution: 
and attempts at basic education toward orientation of sun, 
wind. Paperback, $2.50 from U.N. Bookstore... 
. 
California Tenant’s Handbook is a good guide for west coas 
tenants. By three attorneys. $3.95 postpaid from Nolo 
Press, PO Box 2147, Berkeley, CA 94702. 
—LK 
