Pocket Horn 
No mugger can keep his mind on business while his 
eardrums are being torn by this 118 decibel shriek. 
/f there’s help (or curiosity) around, it‘ll come. 
Tiny, 
cheap, effective device. (Robert Mitchum it was who 
uggested this item, in the course of a Rolling 
Stone interview.) 
—SB 
Pocket Horn 
$3.25 postpaid 
from: 
Edmund Scientific Co. 
300 Edscorp Bldg. 
Fy 
Barrington, NJ 08007 
— 
The Book of Survival 
till the best handbook on how to prevail over fierce 
ituations—— especially urban ones—— is Anthony 
reenbank’s The Book of Survival (Pg. 274). 
Reportedly the author is writing another book 
_ 
especially for city emergencies. 
: 
—SB 
< 
VISIT TO A NUDE EXORCIST PARLOR 
“I'd like you tw cneck out that nude exorcist parlor,” 
Chocolate Graham is saying. “Make sure it’s not a front for 
Prostitution. That could be used to discredit us.”” 
And so Tongue Fu wanders toward the area of Camp 
Crap that has come to be known as Participation Valley. 
There is a makeshift solitary confinement cell in which 
a former prisoner teaches his method of Enforced 
Meditation for twenty-three-and-a-half hours a day. 
Further down, there is a continuing experiment on the 
effect of conflicting prayer upon plants. For couples only. 
A middle-aged wife and husband take turns speaking to a 
row of tomato plants. 
She: “Please, God, let these luscious plants grow!”’ 
He: “‘Don’t grow, you lousy red bitches!” 
She: “Give them nourishment, oh Lord above!” 
He: “Wither and die, you little mothers!” 
She: “Hear me, Jehovah, protect these helpless beings 
to survive on their native American soil!” 
He: “Go back into the dirt, you filthy pinko greenies!” 
She: “Give them strength through photosynthesis, | 
beseech you!” 
He: “Kill! Kill! Kill!” 
; 
Tongue Fu watches with weary preoccupation, then 
Moves on to a shack decorated all over with Persian 
bedspreads. Standing in front, wearing a nun’s outfit, is 
Virginia Real, fingering her rosary beads. 
Rape: How to Avoid It and What to Do 
About It If You Can‘t 
Hard core information—— everything that’s known 
about rape, well organized and readable, it lives up 
to its name. 
Includes phone numbers and addresses 
for Rape Crisis Centers—— rapidly growing in 
number and effectiveness. 
—DB 
Rape 
(How to Avoid It, and 
What to Do About It 
If You Can’t) 
June Bundy Csida & 
Joseph Csida 
1974; 238 pp. 
$1 50 Postpaid 
from: 
Books for Better Living 
21322 Lassen St. 
Chatsworth, CA 91311 
or Whole Earth 
Rapists are fiendishly inventive, and drugs, alcohol or a state 
of retardation often makes them commit rape in places 
where interruption is virtually certain. 
Rapes have been committed in public restrooms, dress shops, 
doctors’ and dentists’ offices, hospital beds, and classrooms. 
An elementary school teacher in Brooklyn was raped at knife 
point with her second grade students as terrified audience. 
e 
Hitchiking is “rape roulette.” The best advice we can give 
any woman is NEVER HITCHHIKE. The woman hitch- 
hiker is prime ‘‘rape bait’ and worse. Hitchhikers disappear 
every day. Some turn up raped; others are found raped and 
murdered; others are never heard of again. 
We realize public transportation is woefully inadequate in 
some cities—— particularly in Los Angeles, described by 
former Police Chief Tom Reddin as “the rape capital of 
the world.” But we urge women to use any other form of 
transportation—— bus, subway, a friend's car, or their 
“Would you like to have a nude exorcism? Only ten 
cents a minute. Come on in, take your clothes and get rid 
of whatever evil thoughts possess you ....’’ 
Flashiebackie: 
Young Virginia Real, wearing a pressed convent school 
uniform, sits on one side of a confessional booth, twisting 
her flame-red hair. 
“| let a boy feel my tits last night.” 
“Breasts,” the priest on the other side corrects her. 
“Tits are vulgar.” 
“My breasts. First the left one. Then the right one. Then 
both together. Then just the left one again. Then— ” 
“You mustn't permit a representative of the devil to 
take advantage of your body, my child. That is a privilege 
which has to be earned.” 
“But why does God make it feel so nice then?” 
“Allow me to quote from the Scriptures.” He leafs 
through a Bible. “’Here it is, the Book of Job. ‘What? 
Shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not 
receive evil?’ 
“I've read that too, Father, and it seems to me that God 
tosses out good and evil arbitrarily, just because Satan taunts 
him into it.” 
“God was testing Job’s faith.” 
“Well, | think God’s on a terrible ego trip then.” 
“For shame. For shame.” 
“\f | were God, | would've just let Job alone.” 
“Please, we're getting off the subject. Now, you say it 
felt nice for this boy to feel your breasts. But your guilt 
doesn’t feel so nice, eh? ...”” 
Tongue Fu has removed his clothes. So has Virginia 
Real. They sit naked on facing chairs. 
“Love your third eye,’’ she says. 
“You have pink pubic hair,” he observes. 
own two feet—— rather than literally put their lives on 
the line by hitchhiking. 
“Men may not believe it (I’m sure male doctors don’t), 
but a pelvic examination is one of the most unpleasant 
things modern women contend with. And the worst time 
to have one is a half hour after being raped.” 
But Ms. McDermott hastens to add: 
“‘It is all but 
impossible to get a conviction without one, however, and 
the implication is that the woman who refuses to have a 
rape check is lying.” 
Of all adults arrested for forcible rape in 1972, 73 percent 
were prosecuted for this offense. Prosecutive problems 
accounted for acquittals and/or dismissals in 49 percent 
of the cases. 32 percent of the adults prosecuted were 
found guilty of tne substantive offense and 19 percent 
were convicted of lesser offenses. 
We asked several high-placed persons in the Bureau of 
Criminal Statistics office in Sacramento whether they 
thought the number of unreported rapes would be 
closer to the three or to the ten times reported figure. 
Off-the-record, don’t quote me, they said they thought 
the ten to one figure would be closer to the truth. 
Most feminists consider the Rape Crisis Center in Washington 
to be the model of an ideal anti-rape project. Indeed the 
).C. women have personally inspired many similar centers 
cross the country, via the sale of How to Start a Rape 
Crisis Center, a 40-page booklet detailing, step-by-step, 
che birth, care and maintenance of their own program. 
The Center also issues a bi-monthly newsletter, which 
reports on the progress of rape crisis projects, anti-rape 
legislation and related material. 
(For more information 
about either publication, write to The Rape Crisis Center, 
P.O. Box 21005, Washington, D.C. 20009.) 
“Yes, | know. Now tell me, exactly what would you 
like to have exorcised? Don’t be shy.” 
“1 want to know— | am wondering if— you are a— 
prostitute?” 
“Ah, | understand what's troubling you.” She takes a 
deep breath, clasps her hands and moves her lips in a silent 
prayer that gradually becomes audible. “Begone, oh, demon 
of commerce! .. 
. Free this victim of your mercenary ways!... 
Cast out thy exploitative self from this walking prison!. . .” 
After ten solid minutes of being harangued in such 
fashion, Tongue Fu asks her to stop. 
“| feel,” he says, “‘as though | am being turned into a 
human tomato plant.” 
Virginia Real glances at her clock. ‘““You owe me one 
dollar. Look, I’m not a hooker, but | do think you're kinda 
cute. Would you like to ball or anything? No charge.” 
“| would be grateful’"— he hesitates— “‘if you would 
massage— my tongue.” 
He moistens a dollar bill with the tip of his tongue, 
leaves it sticking there and passes it to her. 
“Holy muscle! ... Would you’’— she hesitates— “whip me— 
with your tongue?” 
; 
“| do not wish to inflict pain.” 
“Oh, please. You'll be inflicting pain if you don't. I'll 
give you your dollar back if you do it.’”” 
“But that would make me a prostitute.” 
“TI tell you what. I’ll massage your tongue if you'll 
whip me with it.” 
“But’’— he is obviously tempted— “would that not be 
Prostituting my tongue?” 
“Think of it as barter,” she says, limbering up her 
fingers. 
As if in belated response to the Jackie Kennedy rubber 
mask in that Times Square Amusement Center window, the 
third eye tattooed on Tongue Fu's bellybutton winks at 
Virginia Real while she whines with pleasure at each slimey 
lash of his sacred tonque across her lower back. 
[Continued, page 619] 
ALI
- 
ait 
¢ 
a 
< 
3 
