WHOLE 
SYSTEMS 
EARTH 
458 
Passages About Earth 
Emerging planetary m ythology explored by an 
escaped 
historian consulting other cf phe and their 
ideas—— NASA, Illich, Peccei, =~ rishna, Soleri, 
magical Findhorn, etc._ 
(See also 
Thompson's pre- 
ceding At the Edge of 
History.) 
—SB 
Passages About Earth 
(An Exploration of the 
New Planetary Culture) 
William Irwin Thompson 
1973; 206pp. 
$6.95 postpaid 
from: 
Harper & Row Genl. Books 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Nothing except a religious experience could surpass the 
elevation of that host. We had all been Prepared for 
spectacle; but when the engines ignited, the night went 
away, and the force of the rocket entered my body. There 
was no heavy blast that hurt my ears; instead, the engines 
beat in a subtler rhythm that went directly and physically 
into the chambers of the heart and made all the valves 
stammer in astonishment. 
If it weren’t for the joy and 
exhilaration of the crowd, | would have wondered if my 
heart would stop. But as | felt my heart continue with 
the progress of the rocket in the sky, | threw away 
anxiety and leaped up with the others in the sheer joy of 
knowing that men were turning tables on the heavens and 
riding that comet out of earth. 
In a world in which men write thousands of books and one 
million scientific papers a year, the mythic bricoleur is the 
man who plays with all that information and hears a music 
inside the noise. 
At the end of the line for industrial society, we discover 
that it’s a spiral and that we have turned and are now 
Photographic Anatomy of the Human Body 
As your home can never seem the same after 
looking down on it from the air, your physical self- 
image is due for changes on viewing these beautiful 
color photos of human organs, cross-sections, bone 
and muscle structures, an intricate universe within 
the skin. Hand the book to anyone; they become 
riveted. (See also Pg. 604) 
—SB 
[Suggested by Tom Bender] 
THE. 
ya 0 
6. YOKOCH 
Photographic Anatomy 
of the Human Body 
C. Yokochi 
1971; 101pp. 
$14.50 postpaid 
from: 
University Park Press 
Chamber of Commerce Bldg. 
Baltimore, MD 21202 
or Whole Earth 
A cross-section through the thigh 
facing back in the direction of cosmic mythology. Now 
all the old maps take on a new meaning as they warn us, 
“Here be dragons.’’ Ecstasy or economics, madness or 
sanity, mysticism or science: where ancient dragons live 
modern categories die. 
When you know what you are looking for, it is certainly 
not hard to find it. Von Daniken wants to find holes 
blasted out by rockets, so he takes the round wells of the 
Maya, the cenote at Chichen Itza, and says that the lime- 
stone well is the result of a rocket blast. Curiously enough, 
he is willing to take the huge monolithic platform of the 
temple of Baalbek in Lebanon, which has no holes scoured 
out by rockets, and say that this, too, was a launching 
pad for rockets. Next he goes to the plain at Nazca in 
Peru to say that the long lines that can be seen only from the 
air are landing strips for the ships from space. The image of 
a World War II prop job chug-chugging in from Andromeda 
and needing a landing strip a few miles long is hilarious, 
but von Daniken is not sensitive to the perils of what 
Whitehead called ‘‘misplaced concreteness.”” 
RIBS 
falx cerebri 
cerebral hemisphere 
tentorium cerebelli 
cerebellar hemisphere 
medulla oblongata 
cervical enlargement 
spinal ganglions 
lumbar enlargement 
conus medullaris 
cauda equina 
ry SOO, 
OOD 
STU 
FCO: 
DOE 
Vital Question 
Where are the Earth’s erogenous zones? 
[Please address answers to Vital Question, Box 428, 
Sausalito CA 94965.] 
Perspective 
Eugene Schoenfeld, M.D. recently made this comment in 
his column in The Pacific Sun. 
Several years ago Tiburon artist John Kyrk suggested a way to 
get a better look at what's really going on in our world. 
“Why not,’’ John said one day, “have television cameras on 
stationary satellites facing Earth?” Each television set would 
have at least one channel featuring at all times— Earth. We're 
quite beautiful viewed from outer space. Space Lab 
astronauts at this moment see us all together floating 
through time, part of something knowable but yet unknown. 
No better way has been suggested to get everyone centered. 
It's cheap, easy and would bring world-wide tranquility. How 
to gain perspective? Do it literally. 
The Friends of the Earth T-Shirt 
Each FOE T-Shirt features a hand-printed silk-screened photo 
of the Earth in black, blue, and white. 
Each shirt is unique. 
The T-Shirt is made of top-quality, 100 percent cotton. 
Sizes available: small, medium, large, and extra-large. 
The cost—— a mere $3.95 (California residents add 6% 
sales tax.) 
FRIENDS OF THE EARTH 
Department CQ 
529 Commercial Street 
San Francisco CA 94111 
Mental Maps 
Geography of preference, of perception, of knowledge. 
Excellent ideas and research, implying a whole different. 
topology in human affairs than standard atlases show. 
—SB 
Mental Maps 
Peter Gould and Rodney White 
1974; 204pp. 
$1.45 postpaid 
from: 
Penguin Books Inc. 
7110 Ambassador Rd. 
Baltimore, MD 21207 
or Whole Earth 
A preference map of England, computer drawn, as seen 
looking south and west. 
Undesirable Scotland on the right, 
much-loved London environs on the left. “The depression 
in the south is the Metropolitan Sinkhole, while the lump 
further north is the Lake District Dome.” 
