COMMONITNY 
632 
= titi 
These workers are winnowing grain on the outskirts of Peking. China is trying to integrate the peasants and workers by 
bringing agriculture closer to the cities and locating small industries in the countryside. 
GROUPS AND ORGANIZATIONS 
.) 
As plentiful as books and magazines on China are when you 
know where to look for them, there is still an awful lot of 
information that they do not cover. “Scholars” and other 
sundry intellectuals have by and large cornered the market on 
the China books trade. As a result, many of the interesting 
Practical aspects of Chinese life have been ignored. How do 
the Chinese build their houses? How do they move 800 
million people around without private cars? How conscious 
are they of the environmental hazards of development? 
What are they doing about them? What breakthroughs have 
they made in animal husbandry, reforestation, sewage 
treatment, industrial waste reclamation, etc? Do the 
Chinese “process” their food? These are the kinds of 
questions best answered by people who have been to 
China. Some Americans have taken relatively long trips and 
worked on communes and in factories. They have a lot to 
say. Many are glad to speak for a small contribution... or 
even for nothing if the cause is right. 
The best way to get in touch with such people is through 
one of the many groups which have sprung up around the 
country. Many of the people in these groups are politically 
dedicated, and, in one way or another, have been really 
impressed by what they saw in China. 
Once you get in touch with a group you can either just ask 
for a general speaker, or specify some topic and see if the 
group Can come up with someone who has some knowledge 
on the subject. 
One of the best ways of getting information, speakers, films 
and materials is through your nearest branch of the U.S.— 
China Friendship Association. Many of the people who have 
been to China have slides and can give a really interesting 
session for a class, group, town or school, if you can come 
up with travel money and maybe a little more. 
The Friendship Association has loosely affiliated branches 
(all staffed by volunteers) in New York, Chicago, L.A. and 
San Francisco. They also often sponsor language classes. 
U.S.—China Friendship Association 
Suite 1085 
407 South Dearborn 
Chicago, III. 
60605 
U.S.—China Friendship Association 
619 South Bonnie Brae 
Los Angeles, Ca. 
90057 
U.S.—China Friendship Association 
41 Union Sq. West 
New York, NY 
10003 
U.S.—China Friendship Association 
50 Oak St., Room 502 
San Francisco, Ca. 
94102 
Another group worth trying is the Committee of Concerned 
Asian Scholars (they put out the Bulletin of Concerned 
Asian Scholars) which is a large organization of students and 
professors of Asian studies. CCAS has chapters at all major 
universities. They often have good people and programs 
available. 
If you want to contact someone, try the following addresses: 
East: Chris Gilmartin, 4514 Osage Ave., Philadelphia, 
Pa. 19143 
Midwest: Elaine Emling, RR. 1 Whalen Rd., Verona, 
Wisc., 53393 
West: Gail Omvedt, Department of Sociology, UC 
La Jolla, La Jolla, California, 92037 
If perchance you are a high school teacher on the West Coast 
and need some help, films, book suggestions, speakers or just 
plain comfort, by all means get in touch with a really fine 
group called The Bay Area China Education Project. They 
work pretty exclusively with pre-college educational 
institutions. It’s a labor of love, and they're good people. 
They put out teacher’s guides, hold work shops and help 
in developing good class room curricula. They have two 
offices: 
BAYCEP 
P.O. Box 2373 
Stanford University 
Stanford CA 94305 
(415) 321-2300, ex 4781 
or 
BAYCEP 
Center for Chinese Studies 
12 Barrows Hall 
University of California 
Berkeley CA 94720 
(415) 642-0402 
Finally, there is the National Committee on U.S. China 
Relations. They have Field Staff offices across the country. 
They tend to be more of the older generation-academic-big 
name variety, but can provide some help on films, slides, 
tapes and other resources. There main office address is: 
National Committee on U.S.—China Relations 
777 United Nations Plaza, 9B 
New York, NY 
10017 
Guard against arrogance. For anyone in a leading position 
this is a matter of principle and an important condition for 
maintaining unity. Even those who have made no serious 
mistakes and have achieved very great success in their work 
should not be arrogant. 
—(Mao Tse-tung, 
1927) 
FILMS AND FILMSTRIPS 
Over the years there have been some good films made about 
China and in China. But beware! They are pearls among 
swine. Most of the films which pretend to have anything to 
do with China are a lot of crap; cripples of two decades of 
anti-communist paranoia. 
It has not been until the last few years that the Political 
climate has cooled off, and a few good American films have 
begun to come out. With Nixon playing diplomat in Peking, 
some of the large networks forgot their fear and have put o 
some good films. 
Misunderstanding China (CBS, 1972), China Today 
(Canadian Broadcasting System, 1971), China and The 
World (BBC, 1970), Red China, (BBC, 1971) and the more 
recent Felix Greene films are all quite good. One way to 
find out what is available and well produced, is to check 
with your local U.S.—China Friendship Association (See 
addresses under “Groups and Organizations). You could als¢ 
try one of the large distributors of educational films. One o 
the biggest is: 
McGraw Hill Films 
330 West 42nd St. 
New York NY 
10036 
There is one fine series of film strips with a taped spiel whicl 
come highly recommended. It is, China, (produced by the 
Nystrom Corp., 3333 Elston Ave., Chicago, III. 60618, 
$125.00 for the series). The Package includes five color film 
strips, five accompanying cassettes, a teacher's guide, 
activity worksheet, 10 booklets of readings, and a map. This 
series has an intelligent narrative. Unlike many others, it tells 
a minimum of lies. 
THINGS FROM CHINA 
An increasing number of imports are coming into this count 
from China. (We are selling them jet aircraft.) A lot of wicke 
ware, kitchen utensils, clothes, food and art work can be 
found at your local mass import outlet (Cost Plus, India 
Imports, Akron, etc.). In many cities such as San Francisco, 
there are whole stores which sell nothing but Chinese goods 
He The Cultural Revolution, 2102 Union St., San Francisco 
CA). 
Another great delicacy is Chinese beer which is now available 
in this country. Tsingtao Beer is one of the few irrefutable 
benefits of imperialism. Tsingtao is made in the port city of 
Tsingtao on the Shantung peninsula which was once a Germé 
colony. The Germans lost the real estate when they lost 
World War |, but the Chinese kept the brewery and formula. 
The beer is excellent, if expensive. Watch for it! 
If you're interested in some sort of small gift from China 
which can be gotten through the mail, write for the China 
Books and Periodicals Catalogue. They have a good listing 0 
records, art prints, woodblock reproductions, folk art paper 
cut-outs, postage stamps, buttons, posters, postcards and 
some crafts. (See addresses under ‘Magazines and Periodicals 
From China’’). All three outlets accept mail orders for these 
as well as books. 
WANNA GO TO CHINA... ? 
How does one get to go to China? This is the big one. There 
are no simple answers, except to say that the Chinese are 
deluged yearly with tens of thousands of requests. They 
simply can not handle them all. When the Chinese “invite” 2 
guest, they usually pay for the whole trip once a person gets 
to Hong Kong. This involves elaborate preparation and great 
expense for them. They are basically not set up for a lot of 
