ipi Makers 
pi Makers sell nice looking tipis, floor coverings of 
pepskin, cowhide and goatskin, and put out a nice 
oklet with beautiful photos of Indian tipis. 
—LK 
4 Makers booklet is 75 cents, brochure is free. 
i Makers 
) 15th Street 
hoppe 150 
land, CA 94612 
pi Poles 
‘ 
. gepole pine tipi poles cut at 8,000’ level in Wyoming, 
pped from Texas. Cost 25 cents per foot (20° pole = 
00). 
‘formation from: 
uri 
hby Associates 
11 24th St. 
bbock, TX 79410 
vironmental Communications 
ique, varied series of color slide shows for 
leges, schools, groups. Some titles: Mayan 
itecture, Two Japanese Temples, Hardcore L.A., 
f-Timber Construction in Southern Germany, 
lar Energy, Expo ‘70, Inflatables, Islamic 
thitecture in Persia. Series are for sale, about $1 
slide, come with a descriptive brochure. Their 
atalogue in itself is a nice publication. 
Environmental 
Communications 
Catalogue 
free 
from: 
Environmental 
Communications 
62 Windward Ave. 
Venice, CA 90291 
ia 
cea 
eo) 
gers Street 
AINTINGS 
\ Study of Environmental Reactionism 
SP 
Evergreen Tipi Makers 
Tipis and sheepskin gloves, coats, hats and vests from 
Vermont. 
Information from: 
—-LK 
Evergreen Tipi Makers 
East Hardwick, VT 05836 
More Tipis 
Nomadics Tipi and Goodwin-Cole are still in business. See 
Pg. 100. And The Indian Tipi is sti// the best book. Pg. 100. 
A DATE WITH CHOCOLATE GRAHAM 
It's Sunday morning, and Captain Mediafreak is busy 
baking hash oil cookies to eat during the telecast of a 
football game. 
“You have a blind date,” he is saying to Tongue Fu, 
“that’s what it sounds like to me.” 
“What is a blind date?” 
“Well, first of all, a date is where you take a girl out to 
eat and to a movie and then you take ‘er home and get 
laid. Traditionally speaking, that is. Of course, that doesn’t 
apply to you because you've taken this vow of celibacy.” 
“| do not ever take a vow.” 
“Well, anyway, a blind date is where you've never seen 
each other before.” 
That afternoon, the first thing Tongue Fu says to 
Chocolate Graham is, ‘“‘Would you like a hash oil cookie?” 
“How do you know I’m not a narcotics agent?” 
“| do not know. You did not say on the telephone.” 
“Let me put it this way: How do | know you're not 
a narcotics agent?” 
“| am not.” 
“Never mind, I’m just teasing. If the narcs are this 
subtle, I'll join ‘em. Come on in.” 
A couple-dozen folks of all ages are seated on cushions 
in her living room. When Tongue Fu gets comfortable, she 
‘begins to address the group.... 
Flashiebackie: 
Say When Daddy is presenting young Tongue Fu with 
a personalized volume of the J Ching. 
“Keep this with you always, Anteater, and consult it for 
guidance whenever you are in doubt.” 
“But how can a book know anything about my 
activities?” 
“Open it,” the old man grins, “and it will open you.” 
Tongue Fu accepts the book and opens it. Instead of 
there being pages inside, up springs an Oriental jack-in-the- 
box holding a placard on a stick, bearing this message in 
caligraphy: 
THERE IS ONLY NOW— 
AND THAT IS ALREADY GONE 
“| vow to remember this message.” 
“No, Anteater, to make a vow is to not live in the 
present. It is to postpone your strength. You must develop 
your strength, moment by moment.” 
He takes a handful of marbles from his pocket and 
slowly tosses them, one after another, into the air toward 
young Tongue Fu, who in turn catches each marble by 
balancing it on the end of his tongue, which darts up with 
amazing accuracy. 
“Ah, Anteater, how many hearts will you break with 
that tongue of yours? Cunnilingus would never be the 
same.” 
TIPIS & 
YURTS 
eS 
See 
*. 
Pye we! 
a gy 
eds 
a 
ee ee ee 
Bill Coperthwaite has spent ten years developing his 
wooden yurts, with outward-sloping walls held 
together with a steel suspension cable. There are now 
three models—— 12’, 17’ and 32’ (diameter at eaves, 
not floor). They are a simple and inexpensive way of 
achieving a round space. I’ve talked to people in New 
England who have built Bill’s yurts in the woods and 
they are all delighted with the results. See Pg. 101 for 
details. 
—LK 
“| do not wish to hurt anyone. | shall abstain from 
such gratification of the flesh.” 
“So soon you are trying to live in the future.” 
“You are correct. | will take no more vows.” 
“Do you know, Anteater, what is the sound of one 
hand clapping?” 
“Is there a correct answer to such a question?” 
“Do not attempt to find it yet. Some day you will meet 
your mother and you will learn why it is that only through 
the grace of hundreds of thousands of dead souls do you 
experience the ecstacy of existence. That’s the way the 
satori bounces...” 
“All right, now, just to conclude my rapefore | 
answer your questions,”” Chocolate Graham is saying, *’! 
ought to explain what the CRAP Test is. The initials stand 
for Coincidence Rationalization and Practice. That’s my 
working philosophy. 
“It's one thing to accept the myriad of coincidences 
that started governing your life before you were even born— 
how our parents met, how their parents met, and then the 
inconceivable coincidence of a specific spermatozoa and 
Ovum _uniting to culminate in each of us— but it’s another 
thing to set about deliberately arranging coincidences. 
“Everyone of you is here today because of the 
coincidence of time and space which allowed me to slip 
you my card. But then you screened yourselves in as a 
function of your own curiosity. 
GSN 
USIH
“Now, I've read ten thousand books— I’m not 
exaggerating; if a footnote turned me on, | would seek out 
the book it came from— and when | try to summarize all 
the wisdom I’ve synthestized, it boils down on one level to 
the arbitrariness of institutions, in every civilization. 
“We, as humans, are the only species that wars with 
itself in so many ways, because we're the only species that 
can conceptualize our own destruction. Which means if 
enough of us change our own personal direction— by 
exercising our power of choice to the fullest extent— then 
alternative, positive institutions will evolve. 
“Two years ago | used a portion of my trust fund to 
purchase a large chunk of land in Oregon, and this summer 
there, Camp Crap will be dedicated to the celebration of 
consciousness. Spiritual leaders from all over the world 
will participate on a continuing basis, but that’s a mutual 
con game, because | believe we're all capable of spreading 
influence. 
“Just how we go about doing that will be probed at 
individual meetings. The only cost will be the dime you've 
already spent to phone me in the first place. Okay. Are 
there any questions?” 
The first question comes from the man who delivered 
her calling cards the previous day. 
“What I'd like to know is, how do you know which 
people to give your cards to?” 
“Yes, well, being a pygmy has been of great help. In 
this country, the mere sight of me indicates that I’m a 
member of three oppressed classes: I’m a little person; I'm 
a person of color; and I’m a person of the female persuasion. 
| am a triple invisible. And | have rolled with that actuality. 
So, to answer your question, the basis on which | choose 
people to give cards to is, essentially, | eavesdrop on their 
ibes."” 
vibes 
[Continued, page 541] 
