~~ 
LEARNING 
- 
Be 
# 
East-West Journal 
An enthusiastic newsprint magazine of youthful 
Spirituality. 
It covers the news sufficiently. 
| regret 
only its uncritical fondness—— leaving young seekers 
to discover the bad news amid religious enthusiasms 
by themselves. 
May 1978 .CL IV NO i 
‘Science Beyond Ego 
The Jewish Catalog 
There are two, at times, very different traditions in Jewish 
thought and history. One tradition (the “rabbinical” 
tradition) has always been concerned with interpreting 
the Torah {the Old Testament plus attendant scriptures) in 
terms of the present historical moment. 
The other tradition, 
the Caballistic tradition, has been concerned with more 
ultimate religious truths that pertain to all human life—— 
regardless of historic period. The Jewish Catalog is solidly 
in the rabbinical tradition. 
There are large bibliographies 
on Soviet Judaism, Israel and Zionism, and modern recipes 
for cooking East European Jewish Food. 
There is hardly 
mention of the new more self-conscious Judaism that is 
primarily concerned with the Semitic (pre-Arab) origins 
of Judaism. 
For instance, the heretic jews like Spinoza, 
Franz Kafka, and Carlos Saures, leading Jewish mystics, 
can’t be found. Soviet writers like Isaac Babel or the great 
Jewish anthropologists like Raphael Patai and Claude 
Levi-Strauss are pointedly absent. 
But, if you are 
- 
interested in contemporary historical Judaism in the 
tsraeli-American tradition, this is a useful document. 
—PW 
1. “If you‘re planting a tree and you hear Mashiah has come, 
first finish planting and then run to the city gates to tell him 
Shalom” (Yochanan Ben Zakkai). 
THEREFORE: 
Planta tree somewhere as a small tikkun 
olam—— fixing up the world—— wherever the olam most 
needs it. Plant a tree in Vietnam in a defoliated former 
forest. Go there to plant it if possible (even if difficult); 
if not, send money to: 
Heschel Memorial Forest Fund 
Trees for Vietnam 
211 Florida Ave. N.W 
Washington, D.C. 20036 
Plant a tree in Appalachia where the strip mines have poisoned 
the forests. Go there to plant it; start a kibbutz there and 
grow more trees. 
Plant a tree in Brooklyn where the asphalt 
‘has buried the forest. Go back there to plant it and live with 
some of the old Jews who still live there. 
If policemen come 
‘to save the asphalt, keep planting. Offer everybody a turn 
with the shovel. 
e 
Blessing the New Moon: 
Birkhat ha-Levanah 
1. tis a custom to bless the new moon. This is in 
The East-West Journal 
ae 
y 
Robert Hargrove, Ed. 
$5.00 /12 issues, USA 
$7.00 /12 issues, 
outside of USA 
from: 
New World News Service 
31 Farnsworth St. 
Boston, MA 02210 
Last year, during the First International Conference on 
Psychotronics | met Robert Pavalita~-— a most enigmatic 
man who just might be one of the first inventors of the New 
Age. He didn't speak English and | didn't speak Czech, but 
with the help of a translator we had a long conversation, 
after which he demonstrated to the people at the conference 
one of his generators. 
His daughter touched her hand to 
her head in a rhythmic way and then touched her hand to 
the generator. Within a few minutes the generator started 
to move. This is very difficult to explain in any conventional 
way, and | know one physicist who couldn’t get to sleep 
all night trying to figure out how this happened. 
—Stanley Krippner 
@ 
The New Polytheism, by James Miller (Harper and Row, 
1974), 86 pages, $4.95. 
This book suggests that the Greek gods and goddesses 
are coming to life again after the death of (monotheistic) 
God, as proclaimed by Nietzche. 
The Jewish Catalog 
(A Do It Yourself Kit) 
Richard Siegel, Michael 
Strassfeld, and Sharon 
Strassfeld, Eds. 
1973; 319pp. 
$5.00 Postpaid 
from: 
The Jewish Publication 
Society of America 
1528 Walnut St. 
Philadelphia, PA 19102 
or Whole Earth 
remembrance of the way the new moon was publicly 
announced. 
In ancient times, any two witnesses would see 
the new moon and report it to the Sanhedrin—— the ancient 
supreme court of the Jews—— which would then proclaim 
the new month. Today, however, the whole procedure is 
done by calculation. 
2. The Blessing of the New Moon should be done, however, 
between the third and fourteenth days of the new month, at 
which time the moon begins to diminish. The blessing is 
delayed until the third day because one should be able to see 
a significant portion of the new moon’s light before blessing it. 
3. The Blessing of the New Moon is usually done after 
Havdalah on Saturday night (see Candles and Candle-making). 
It is recommended that it be recited at that time because one 
is still in a festive mood and well dressed. However, it can be 
said any night during this period, even by oneself (i-e., 
without a minyan, quorum). The ceremony is found in the 
Siddur after the Shabbat Maariv—— the Evening Service that 
ends the Shabbat. 
The Matter of Zen 
A lucid, terse, warm-hearted invitation to sit, and keep 
sitting. 
Until? There isn’t any “until.” 
—SB 
The Matter of Zen 
Paul Wienpahl 
1964; 162pp. 
$2.45 postpaid 
from: 
New York Univ. Press 
Washington Square 
New York, NY 10003 
or Whole Earth 
A person can learn more about Zen in a half hour of medi- 
tating than he can by reading a dozen books. 
It also follows, 
however, that, if a person is practicing meditation, words in 
the form of lectures, stories, or even books might help him 
with his understanding of Zen by helping him to improve 
his meditation practice. Because this is so, the literature of 
Zen is large and Zen teachers are by no means mute....A 
person studies Zen Buddhism by meditation (sitting). He 
may perform other activities, like receiving instruction from 
a roshi or Zen teacher and practicing a certain moral rode. 
However, these other things are all adjuncts to meditation. 
They are devices for improving it. They are in a sense parts 
of meditation. 
Nevertheless, tiie practice is meditation 
and the goal is meditation. 
The American was being shown about by the abbot of the 
temple. The visitor noticed that the abbot was bowing to 
the various statues of the Bodhisattvas in the different 
buildings as they entered. 
Finally, in some annoyance he ~ 
said to the abbot: 
“I thought that you were a Zen Buddhist 
and free of all this bowing and scraping. 
Hell, /’m freer 
than you. 
| can spit on these statues.”’ 
“Okay,”’ replied the abbot in his limited English, ““You 
spits, | bows.” 
READINGS INSUFISM 
by Charles I. Campbell 
Sufi writings have been widely misunderstood in the We 
In any tradition, the mystics have often been misunderstood 
— 
~and even Persecuted 
by the orthodox, and so with the Sufis Sy.
of Islam. Their writings therefore have often been indirect, 
— 
“coded’’ as some like to say. Moreover, the esoteric know- 
| 
ledge of the Sufi cannot really be expressed discursively, 
but can only be hinted at, alluded to, described by meta- — 
phor and symbol. This is indicated by the following 
ee 
Persian couplet: 
4 
O you who are unaware of burning and being burned _ 
Know that the coming of love is not something learned. 
Earthly love, wine, the cup-bearer, the moth extinguishing it 
self by its attraction for the flame of the candle are all used in 
Sufi writings to express the inexpressible. Those who already —
know, recognize in them the spiritual experience of their 
author and may find they give coherent form to their own 
experience. Sufi writings are also designed to arouse a certain 
recognition in those who are beginning to awaken, to stir a i 
kind of nostalgia, and in this way are a means of setting out 
— 
to find the Way. 
ssi: 
The following list includes some of the best-known and most - 
comprehensible material on Sufism and Islam. Here an ex- 
planation and a caution are necessary. Because there is no 
set form of Sufi practice it should not be supposed that the 
Way is indefinite. The Sufis say there are as many ways to. 
God as there are human hearts. Only a Master who knows 
the hearts can give the key to open them and show the Way. — 
This key, which may differ according to the lock, is called 
the Remembrance of God (Dhikr or Zikr in Arabic), often, 
but unsatisfactorily, translated as ‘‘invocation” or “‘comm- 
emoration.” This practice is widely known and indeed 
something like it appears in many mystical ways, such as 
the Prayer of Jesus in the Orthodox Church or the mantras 
- 
of the Far East. Masters of all Ways agree, however, that 
it is useless and even psychically dangerous to undertake 
such practices unless they are given under the direction 
of a master. Writings about the Sufi Way, therefore, 
even though they occasionally describe such practices in 
some detail, should be regarded as preliminary and descrip- 
tive-and by no means taken as guides for do-it-yourself 
spiritual practices. 
The following list of books can serve as a good introduction 
© 
: 
to Sufism. (Readers with no prior acquaintance with the 
subject might get a feel for the ‘flavor’ of Sufi mysticism. 
by beginning with Rumi and Attar, or with the modern 
. 
works by Lings and Dallas.) 
: 
Arberry, A.J. Sufism. 
Perhaps the best elementary overview of Islamic mysticism by 
an eminent scholar in the field. An excellent introduction. 
_ 
Arberry, A.J. The Discourses of Rumi. 
ey 
A collection of stories from the works of the great Persian 
poet, similar to tales of the Hasidim and to Zen stories. 
Attar, The Conference of the Birds. (Nott edition) 
A free translation, inspiring in English and profoundly moving 
in its effect. Through folk-tales, allegories, and lyrical descrip- — 
tions, Attar has written a parable of the soul’s quest for God. 
Burckhardt, Titus, An Introduction to. Sufi Doctrine. 
A short but dense work summarizing the intellectual founda- — 
tions of Sufi mysticism, as expounded from the traditional 
_ 
Point of view. Strongly influenced by Ibn al-Arabi. Valuable — 
but not always easy to understand. 
t 
Journey to Ixtlan 
The travels of Carlos Castaneda with his Yaqui sorcery 
teacher grow wilder still in this third volume (two before, 
Pg. 432, and more coming). 
It is simply the most 
; 
original writing | know—— form and content. Some of it 
probably is fiction, but there’s no fiction better. 
—SB 
Journey to Ixtlan 
(The Lessons of Don Juan) 
Carlos Castaneda 
1972; 315pp. 
~ $2.95 Postpaid 
us 
from: 
: 
Simon:and Schuster 
One W. 39th St. 
New York, NY 10018 
Attn: Order Dept. 
or Whole Earth 
“The art of a hunter is to become inaccessible,’ he said. “I 
the case of that blond girl it would’ve meant that you had 
become a hunter and meet her sparingly. Not the way you 
ve 
did. You stayed with her day after day, until the only feeling —
that remained was boredom. True?” 
Wins: 
I did not answer. 
| felt | did not have to. He was right. 
__ 
“To be inaccessible means that you touch the world around 
you sparingly. You don’t eat five quail; you eatone. You 
don't damage the plants just to make a barbecue pit. You 
don't expose yourself to the power of the wind unless 
it is 
