hell of a lot of original design and use of materials 
(asbestos super-tiles out of sewer pipe, sulfur lock- 
rcks, modular lobs, etc) went in to this impressive. 
thsi 
is the first home that I’ve seen which is more 
. a8 ae systemically designed than a travel trailer. 
= 
Mrwent 
purity 2 
Ro(mater Storage 
Copectty a? gelfonstivo tf 
MEPURITY 3 MATER IS 
useD 
SAYMMMTER 
ET 
“TTI Ast WASTE Pyare ETO 
The Ecol Operation 
from: 
(Ecology + Building + 
Minimum Cost Housing 
Common Sense) 
Group 
1972; 100pp. 
; 
School of Architecture 
" 
McGill University 
$4.00 postpaid 
Montreal 101 
Province of Quebec 
Canaua 
1. Building with renewable resources—— such as timber or 
vegetable fibres—— which do not consume the earth’s stock 
of non-reusable materials. 
~ 2. Building with materials which would otherwise cause 
pollution when discarded as industrial waste; instead of 
burning or stockpiling sulphur wastes from oil, copper, 
zinc, refineries, etc., these could be used in construction. 
3. Building with materials that can be re-cycled rather 
than discarded at the end of the building's life. 
4. Using pollution-free wind energy to produce electricity. 
5. Using the minimum of water resources for washing and 
cleaning, saving large amounts of water by fine-droplet 
spraying. 
6. Putting to use the power of wind-produced electricity to 
extract water from the air by the phenomenon of con- 
densation. 
Ti: Using solar energy to purify polluted or sea-water. 
8. Making use of the sun for cooking and heating water 
thus requiring no fuel. 
9. Re-cycling water and separating it by function for (1) 
drinking and cooking, (2) hand washing and showering, 
and (3) toilet flushing, depending on the purity. 
10. Using all available rainwater. 
11. Not using the earth’s permanent natural resources which 
have taken millions of years to accumulate and are rapidly 
being depleted by overuse. 
12. Avoiding waste by relating the size of all building 
components through modular coordination. 
Freedom to Build 
Each year more than 150,000 families build their own homes 
in America—— either doing the actual building, or acting as 
contractors in overseeing construction. According to 1968 
census figures, 20% of new single-family residences were 
owner-built. 
These homes are generally smaller, cheaper, 
and better built than developer-built housing, and almost 
half of them are built with cash—— no mortgage payments. 
This is the only book of its type I’ve seen. 
It was picked up 
by London’s Architectural Design (Pg. 88) magazine about a 
year ago and is overdue for recognition in the U. S. Itis 
about the history, capability, and value of people providing 
their own shelter, and contains descriptions of various 
families and the houses they have built. An interesting fact 
is the far greater freedom of the poor people in a country 
like Peru, as compared to lower-income families in the U.S., 
in providing their own homes. 
=—LK 
Architecture for the Poor 
Egyptian architect Hassan Fathy calls for architects 
to work with poor people, helping them design and 
build their own homes with local techniques and 
materials. Mud brick in the desert, wood where it 
grows, rock where fields must be cleared of it. In 
an inspiring personal history, Fathy describes the 
thought, planning and construction of a Moslem 
village in the upper Nile in the 1940’s. Families 
were consulted individually and their needs incorpora- 
ted into design of their homes. Craftsmen, trained 
on the site, built a series of handsome mud brick 
buildings: homes, schools, theater, marketplace and 
mosque. 
Though the project was not completed, it 
generated much useful information on adobe, dome 
and vault construction and natural cooling techniques. 
Moreover, it demonstrated Fathy’s vision that the 
poor of the earth, with architectural help and crafts 
training, can build housing they can afford, and that 
is aesthetically satisfying. 
—LK 
[Suggested by Art Boericke) 
This architectural excursion was, for me, a hunt after mud 
brick vaults. After Aswan, we went to Luxor, where | was 
especially pleased to examine the granaries of the 
Ramesseum—— long, vaulted storehouses, built of mud 
brick 3,400 years old. It seemed to be a fairly durable 
substance. 
n 
e 
Shelter in Africa 
This is the second in Paul Oliver’s series of fine books 
on indigenous, humble (therefore unchronicled) 
shelters of the world. 
There are more than 5,000 
tribes in Africa, and a corresponding variety of 
building types. An excellent editor’s introduction on 
the history, present status, and changing state of 
African housing—— followed by 16 essays (with 
4 
5 
Shelter in Africa 
N 
Paul Oliver, Ed. 
N 
1971; 240pp. 
N 
$15.00 postpaid 
from: 
P.O. Box 1323 
or Whole Earth 
Freedom to Build 
from: 
, 
(Housing by and For 
Collier-Macmillan 
The People) 
Front & Brown Sts. 
John F.C. Turner & 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
Robert Fichter, Eds. 
or Whole Earth 
1973; 301pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
The poor can be wards of the state, however, only when 
they are a minority. When they are a majority, as they are in 
Peru or India, the state simply cannot afford the cost of 
distributing massive amounts of institutionalized goods and 
services which have the effect, as in the United States, of 
appropriating the autonomy of the poor. This explains 
the relative freedom of housing activity by the poor ina 
country such as Peru, and the almost total lack of such 
freedom for the urban poor in industrialized societies. 
Thanks to their autonomy, many of the Latin American 
urban poor make better use of their limited resources and 
sometimes are better housed, in absolute terms, than their 
wealthier North American counterparts. 
rhe 
eS: 
peONeNNNNENEAEAT 
BQee 
Praeger Publishers, Inc. 
Springfield, MA 01101 
Front view of tent open for day use. 
= 
' 
» the way. Sooner or later return home, put notes together, 
set 
Fa 
fotnytecture 
lh for the Poor 
Hassan Fathy 
1973; 233pp. 
$10 95 postpaid 
from: 
wd 
. University of Chicago Press 
11030 S. Langley 
— y 
Chicago, !L 60628 — ~AiRe 
or Whole Earth ~ 
Gorge 
wren 
ee 
ect 
rae Reeeen etry 
Mushrabiya (oriel window with latticework screen) at Sehen
House 
One interesting technical discovery emerged from the Mit- 
el-Nasara project, and that was how to make bricks quickly. 
Because of the acute distress of the villagers we had to build 
the village as quickly as possible, and so | was ready to ~ 
use any means of saving time. Dr. Ytzhar, a soil mechanics 
consultant to the Baum-Marpin Company, came to help us, 
and he suggested speeding up brick manufacture by mixing 
the dry constituents—— earth and sand—— in a mechanical 
cement mixer with a carefully controlled quantity of steam. 
The steam would penetrate the lumps of earth much better 
than water could, and would envelop each particle in a 
film of water, thus achieving instant and complete amalga- 
mation of earth and water in exactly the right proportions 
without the need to make excessively wet mud and then 
leave it for days to dry. 
: 
Foundations and roofing are the two biggest technical and 
economic problems in cheap rural housing. 
photos and drawings) by 
travellers who studied 
_ 
various African housing types. Beautiful Zulu 
huts, woven by women, that resemble large seedpod 
and blend with surroundings. Nomad tents made fro 
the hair of the animals that pack the tents. Squatter 
settlements, and studies of what has happned to the 
tribes as they are forced to move off their egies 
and 
toward the cities. 
ik 
A Hausa custom which harks back to pre-Moslem times, 
though it is no longer universal, is for a dead person to be 
buried under the floor of his hut, which is then abandoned 
and left to collapse. After the roof and parts of the walls 
have broken down, the roofing poles of deleb palm are 
removed and used as fire wood or, if in good condition, 
for new construction. The walls disintegrate quickly, formi 
a small mound which marks the site of the former hut for 
several years; but when a new hut is necessary this mound 0 
earth may be used to make bricks for the new building. 
LEARNING ARCHITECTURE 
by Lloyd Kahn 
ar.chi.tec.ture n 1: the art or science of building... 
Recently | did a slide show at a nearby 
college. A student 
came up afterwards and asked if | knew of any good 
architecture schools in the country. | didn’t. 
We went across the street for some coffee and as we sat | 
told him what Id do if | were him and wanted to learn 
building design: spend some months reading high-quality 
books on vernacular building as well as the world’s great 
architecture. Then set off with sleeping bag, backpack, — 
camera and notebook for a year or two of travel—— 
: 
studying, sketching, recording, listening, learning. Shelter 
being so basic, people of all lands seem willing to talk 
about it. They are proud of handwork (where it still exists) 
eager to show an interested visitor buildings, local ingenuit 
Study humble, indigenous buildings as well as some 
monumental feats, letting circumstance and intuition guide 
develop film, ponder what has been learned, In between 
travel and study—— preferably before—— work fora i 
and learn to draw. 
i 
h 
To learn building you'll probably have to search around to 
