~ NATURAL HISTORY 
Insects of the World 
Best il/ustrations ever 
477 
Biology of Plants Definitive, sumptuous 
482 
Ecology Best theory 
461 
Audubon Life-magazine 
374 
_ Atlas of Evolution 
The big picture 
462 
Birds 
of North America 
Best bird book 
478 
Atlas of Wild Animals 
Coffee table 
460 
The International Book of Trees 
Coffee table 
485 
National Geographic 
Classic magazine 
300 
A Sand County Almanac 
Land ethic 
13 
Wildlife in America Sorry history 
480 
Walden How to notice 
47 
- Evolution and Design in the Plant Kingdom 
< 
Architecture 
84 
Golden Handbooks Best intros 372 
A Field Guide to Animal Tracks 
Friendly guide 
479 
Pigs for the Ancestors Anthro-biology 
454 
Watership Down 
Fictional rabbits 
713 
- The Buffalo Book 
The compleat bison 
491 
Gazelle Boy Wisdom froma wild child 
728 
Golden Handbooks 
Science/nature learning 
best bets 
373, 389,729 
Care of the Wild Feathered and Furred 
Grass roots 
728~- 
So Excellent a Fishe 
Each human, whose senses are open, will be spoken 
to by some land form or living creature. He/she 
will, without too much forethought, become involved 
_ and, through the involvement, wind up defending 
‘the animal, plant or geography. Archie Carr’s totem 
is TURTLE, especially sea turtles. Though written 
like a scientist, you can hear the Carib drums. 
B- 
38 Young green turtle, showing serrated lower jaw character 
‘atic of Chelonia and probably ausociated with the grazing habit 
So Excellent a Fishe 
from: 
(A Natural History of 
Doubleday & Company, Inc. 
' Sea Turtles) 
501 Franklin Ave. 
Archie Carr 
Garden City, L.I. N.Y. 
1973; 266pp. 
11530 
$2.95 postpaid 
or Whole Earth 
In meditating on possible guidance processes in the 
Ascension migration it is necessary to decide whether you 
think that it is bound to involve more than a compass sense. 
lf there were no current, say, and no waves—— at least no 
angling waves—— and if the turtle left Recife on the correct 
course to Ascension, how long would she be able to keep 
heading toward the island by compass sense alone? That is, 
if the right initial heading was due east, how long would that 
remain the right heading, and how wrong would it have 
become by the time the turtle reached the longitude of 
Ascension? 
Said still another way: for an animal swimming 
in open sea, a bilaterally symmetrical animal who pushes 
just as hard with her right flipper as with her left, and who 
has no barnacles off-center on her shell, how close would 
she come to hitting a five-mile target after a thousand-mile 
swim, if she guided herself by compass sense alone? 
It is at that point that the evolution of a celestial guidance 
system for the Ascension migration seems obviously 
impossible. Too much equipment had to evolve too quickly. 
If any other theory seemed less wild | would quickly clutch 
it; but none does. All the other conceivable means of 
highseas travel orientation—— by detection of features 
: 
of the earth’s magnetic field or by responding to accelerations 
of the Coriolis Force, by inertial-sense dead-reckoning, by 
piloting with hidden landmarks—— all these at present seem 
to me even less plausible than the celestial-navigation theory. 
So it really appears impossible that turtles or terns could 
ever gather at Ascension—— and yet they do. 
‘ 
proclamation to protect the Bermuda green sea 
turtle (now extinct) to the US Wilderness Bill of 
1959, this is the most solid history of diversity 
reduction in North America. A thorough, complete 
appendix gn all endangered North American species. 
Lost Wild America by Robert McClung (William 
Morrow Press, 1969) continues the story ten more 
years using many illustrations and quotes from 
Matthiessen’s book. A simpler book with a strange 
optimism. Read Audubon magazine (Pg. 374) for 
the contemporary news. 
—PW 
Wildlife in America 
Peter Matthiessen 
1959; 303pp. 
$2.25 postpaid 
from: 
The Viking Press, Inc. 
625 Madison Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10022 
or Whole Earth 
“Everybody knows," one naturalist has written, ‘‘that 
the autumn landscape in the north woods is the land, plus 
a red maple, plus a ruffed grouse. In terms of conventional 
physics, the grouse represents only a millionth of either the 
mass or the energy of an acre. Yet subtract the grouse and 
the whole thing is dead.”’ 
Mind in the Waters 
Finally, a book on cetaceans (whales, dolphins, and 
porpoises) that isn’t a book on whaling. Instead, an 
assemblage of writings and illustrations celebrating 
human and whale involvement with each other. 
There’s Farley Mowat, Lilly, D. H. Lawrence, Gregory 
Bateson—— and lots more talking about the whales 
and dolphins in such a way that you obviously don’t 
want them exterminated. Beautiful color photos by 
Bill Curtsinger and a fine appendix on the present 
status of cetacean populations. Money goes to 
Project Jonah—— the lead group trying to save 
cetaceans. I’m sure the paperback edition will be 
out in 1975. 
—PW 
Mind in the Waters 
from: 
Joan McIntyre, ed. 
Charles Scribner’s Sons 
1974 
Vreeland Ave. 
F 
Totowa, N.J.07512 
$14.50 postpaid 
or the Sierra Club 
or Whole Earth 
es = =) 
AN GERED SPECIES RET 
The Red Data Book published by the International Union 
for the Conservation of Nature contains all the endangered 
species of the world. Each page is replaceable as the species 
changes from potentially endangered to about-to-go-extinct. 
For the USA, see Rare and Endangered Fish and Wildlife of 
the United States (Resource Publication No. 34) compiled 
by the Bureau of Sports Fisheries and Wildlife in 1966. The 
A SELECTION OF BOOKS ON ENDANGERED SPECIES 
. 
The Blue Whale by George Small, Columbia University 
Press, ppbk. $3.95 
A ae for the Killing by Farley Mowat, Penguin ppbk., 
1.50. 
Never Cry Wolf by Farley Mowat, Dell ppbk., $0.75. 
The Last of the Loners by Stanley P. Young, Macmillan, 
1970, $9.95. A history of America’s most famous 
wolves. 
Biography of a Grizzly by Ernest Thompson Seton, 
Schocken ppbk., $1.95. 
CP 
pigin ee 
- 
It was a great memorable day when the first flockof« 2 = 
Passenger pigeons came to our farm ... I have seen flocks — 
streaming south in the fall so large that they were flowing 
over from horizon to horizon in an almost continuous — 
stream all day long, at the rate of forty or fifty milesan 
hour, like a mighty river in the sky, widening, contracting, 
descending like falls and cataracts, and rising suddenly here 
and there in huge ragged masses like high-splashing spray. 
How wonderful the distances they flew in a day—— ina 
year—— ina 
lifetime! 
ty 
The buffalo is gone, and of all his millions, nothing is left 
but bones ... Those discordant serenaders, the wolves that 
howled at evening about the traveller’s camp-fire, have 
succumbed to arsenic and hushed their savage music ... 
—Francis Parkman (1892) 
Our quarry broke surface some five hundred yards away on 
the starboard bow and began his silent, terrible death 
struggle. If whales could utter cries which could rend the 
heart their deaths would be less dreadful than this losing 
battle which our whale was now engaged upon, in silence 
broken only.by the far-off screaming of clouds of sea birds. 
We could not even hear the thrashing of crimsoned foam as 
he writhed and plunged, spouting a bloody spray at first, 
then an upgushing, followed by a bubbling upwelling amid 
a spreading island of blood. Suddenly the struggle ceased, 
the red foam subsided and we could see the body lying on 
its side quite still, one flipper sticking out of the water. The 
birds busied themselves above and around it with shrill cries, 
It is pretty obvious that dolphins and porpoises have a very 
strong sense of manners, of what they consider to be 
appropriate behavior. One story of dolphin ethics is 
George Hunt's story about Sissy, a porpoise in the West 
Indies. John Lilly wanted to make a film of a porpoise 
rescuing a human being in the water. So George aets in the 
water and pretends to be in distress. Sissy comes over and 
rescues him by pushing him to the side. Lilly is filming this, 
but when he looks at the camera he finds that the cap is still 
on the lens. So he takes the cap off the lens and sends George 
back into the water. When George pretends to be in distress 
again, Sissy beats him up. 
—Bateson 
— 
here-and-now news !s available in Audubon Magazine 
(National Audubon Society), Conservation News (National 
Wildlife Federation), Natural History (American Museum 
of Natural History) and Defenders of Wildlife News 
(Defenders of Wildlife). All these organizations and many 
more can be found in the Conservation Directory, 1974 
listed on page 467. 
i 
Lives of the Hunted by Ernest Thompson Seton, Schocken, 
$1.95. 
Ser 
The Swans by Peter Scott and the Wildfowl Trust, Houghton 
Mifflin, 1972, $15.00. 
; 
Must They Die: The Strange Case of the Prairie Dog and the 
Black-footed Ferret by Faith McNulty, 1971, Doubleday, 
$4.95. 
: 
~ 
wY 
The Buffalo Hunters by Mari Sandoz, Hastings House, 1954 
(Out of Print). 
tae 
