nowing 
what your rights are won't keep you from 
aving them violated, but you'll stand a much better 
ance of protecting yourself when someone tries. 
e ACLU is publishing, (8 out of 15 so far) an 
cellent series of handbooks on the basic legal 
ghts 
of the poor, students, teachers, servicemen, 
nental patients, women and suspects. Essential 
»formation if you (or a dear one) are in any of 
hese catagories. And since any one of us may 
ddenly find ourselves being stopped, questioned 
d searched by the police, the handbook on 
spects’ rights is required reading for every citizen. 
e Rights 
of Prisoners 
The Rights of Mental 
avid Rudousky 
\ 
Patients 
973; 128pp. 
Bruce Ennis & Loren Siegel 
95 
1973; 336pp. 
e Rights of Students 
$1.25 
lan Levine, Eve Cary, 
The Rights of Teachers 
iane Deiroky 
David Rubin 
973; 160pp. 
- 
1972; 176pp. 
95 
$.95 
e Rights of Women 
The Rights of Servicemen 
san C. Ross 
Robert S. Rickin 
973; 384pp. 
1972; 154pp. 
1.25 
$.95 
e Rights of the Poor 
Ivia Law 
974; 176pp. 
all postpaid from: 
95 
Avon Books 
: 
250 West 55th St. 
rhe Rights of Suspects 
Order Dept. 8th Fir. 
New York, NY 10019 
or Whole Earth 
liver Rosengart 
974; 122pp. 
25 
; 
hat if you are walking along, stopped and ordered to empt 
our pockets? 
, 
erhaps you can start by politely saying that you know that 
at is an illegal search, that you do not consent to sucha 
parch, but that you will not struggle if the police persists in 
dering you to submit to the search. If the police persist, 
hich they probably will, and if you have contraband on 
ou, you should then start preparing for trial. If there are 
0 police officers, get both badge numbers (but without 
riting them down, memorize them), since only one 
oliceman will be the arresting officer and the other officer 
hay be inconsistent in his testimony, which sheds doubt on 
he testimony of both. If the contraband was wrapped in 
Dmething like a cigarette pack, an eyeglass case, or even 
laper, that can be helpful at a motion to suppress and you 
ould try to retrieve any wrapping that the police leave 
ehind. Most importantly, look around you for witnesses, 
en witnesses who just saw you go in and out of a building. 
you can, tell your name to people standing nearby so that 
anyone wants to, they will be able to find you. If you get 
t of jail come back to the scene as soon as possible, and 
it isa residential neighborhood talk to people who hang 
ound, visit all the apartments with windows that face the 
reet and ask people if they saw you. If the scene of the 
rest is a business area, it may be fruitful, if you know that 
Dme people saw the arrest, to distribute leaflets to passers- 
who are on the street at approximately the same time of 
ay that the arrest took place. Finding one independent 
itness, who does not know you and has no stake in the 
tcome, is something even the most biased judges find 
fficult to ignore. 
t the point 
of asking you to go with them, the police will 
Sually act very friendly and say that they just want to 
iscuss some matters with you; don’t be misled into assuming 
at they want to talk to you asa 
friend. Even in states which 
ave the Uniform Arrest Act, covering another type of 
rcumstance, it seems probable that, unless there is an actual 
rest, the citizen has the right to refuse. You can ask if you 
under arrest, and if they say no you can tell them politely 
at you refuse to accompany them and that, if they order 
force you to go with them, this means that they have 
rested you and according to the Fourth Amendment to 
he United States Constitution, they cannot arrest you 
less they have probable cause. If they then insist you 
of course, obey unless you want to risk being forced 
en. At the police station, you can again ask if 
Pres 
Bane 
. 
pred aes 
. 
a 
Sd 
i 
ati Sie 
you are under arrest and if you are not, you should say that 
you are leaving and begin to walk out the door. If the police 
do not let you leave, you should insist on having a lawyer and 
if you cannot afford one, you can tell them that they have 
the responsibility to get you a lawyer free of charge. You 
should refuse to answer any questions; this may result in your 
release since, if they did not arrest you in the first place, it 
means that they might not have sufficient evidence to hold 
you. 
The Supreme Court has held that the police do not have the 
right to round up people against whom they have no 
evidence and take the fingerprints of those people. See Davis 
v, Mississippi, supra, discussed on page 19. Should you be 
picked up, not formally arrested and directed to submit to 
fingerprinting, you have the right to refuse; the police will 
be unable to take your fingerprints against your will since 
the slightest movement will spoil the print. 
—Rights of Suspects 
-@ 
Robert Jackson was a Justice on the United States Supreme 
Court. He developed a serious heart condition and was warned 
by his doctors that unless he retired from the court and led a 
very restricted life, he would probably die within a few 
months. Justice Jackson decided to stay on the Court 
anyway, and he died a few months later of a heart attack. 
He had the right to make such a choice. Similarly, a patient 
in a general hospital may refuse to undergo an operation 
even if his life depends upon it. He has the absolute right, 
if he is conscious, to make the choice between surgery and 
almost certain death. And if that right is violated, he has 
good grounds to sue the doctor for assault and battery. 
—Rights of Mental Patients 
“Can most parents afford to establish the quality day-care 
centers that are needed?” 
Probably not. Realistically, parents need Federal aid to 
establish the quantity and quality of day-care centers needed. 
President Nixon recently vetoed a bill designed to make a 
substantial start toward Federally supported, comprehensive 
child-care facilities, and pressure is needed to get a new bill. 
One feature feminists should be especially wary of is the 
tendency to make such care available only to the poor. Parents 
of all income levels need this program, and an absence of 
quality day care keeps the middle-income woman tied to her 
home just as much as the lower-income woman. The solution 
may be to make day care available to all, but on a sliding-fee 
scale. Women will have to fight for this provision, though, 
since it faces the opposition of both conservative and liberal 
© 
Congressmen. 
Where can parents get help in establishing day-care centers? 
One source of information is the Day Care and Child 
Development Council of America. The council publishes a 
pamphlet, Basic Facts About Licensing of Day Care, which 
is available for $.50, and a newsletter, Action For Children. 
Both can be obtained by writing to; 
Day Care & Child Development Council of America 
1426 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20005 
The council also has three organizers who will help interested 
local groups start day-care centers. 
Other sources include: Day Care: How To Plan, Develop and 
Operate a Day Care Center, by E. Belle Evans, Beth Schub, 
and Marlene Weinstein (Beacon Press, $6.95); and So You're 
Going to Runa Day Care Service. The last is available from 
the: 
Day Care Council of New York, Inc. 
114 East 32nd Street 
New York, NY 10016 
—Rights of Women 
How to Get What the U.S. Government Owes 
Veterans and Their Dependents 
This booklet contains information and addresses of 
governmental agencies which provide a multitude of free 
or low cost services. Many individuals and groups would find 
this booklet very helpful if they would benefit from such 
services as: free health care for Indians and Alaskan Natives, 
free government loans for farmers, free tips on gardening, 
free loaner films (covering everything from Basic Net 
Mending to Oregon and Its Natural Resources), free use of 
government land, information and assistance for veterans, 
free maps of any area in the U.S., how to challenge the 
1.R.S., free community programs, free termite prevention 
and contro! service, etc., etc. 
The booklet isn’t cheap but the freebies inside make it well 
worth the price. 
—John Beck 
How to Get What the 
from: 
U.S. Government Owes 
Good News Publishing Co. 
Veterans and Their 
Box 2091 
Dependents 
Mark Weiss 
1974; 131pp. 
$3.00 postpaid 
Miami Beach, Fla. 33140 
or Whole Earth 
12 
TONGUE FU MEETS HIS SISTER 
The Scientologeek recognizes Tongue Fu leaving a 
workshop in Advanced Breathing. 
“Hey! That photo you showed me the other week. | saw 
her. She’s with the Giggling Maharishi caravan over the hill 
there.” 
‘ 
“Oonga-Boonga, Patoonga.” 
“| beg your pardon?” 
“That is an ancient blessing of appreciation. | ama 
Patoonga priest.” 
“Beautiful. | thought you were a plainclothes cop 
looking for a runaway.” 
“1 do not lie. She is my sister. | must go find her.” 
Over the hill, the Giggling Maharishi is in the middle of 
delivering a lecture on Transcendental Lactation to a 
group of disgruntled dairy industry conventioneers wearing 
Milk Does Something to Every Body \apel buttons. 
_ 
{After all,” he giggles, ‘statistics show that bottle-fed 
babies have a higher infant mortality rate.’ Giggle. ‘“You 
westerners are very anxious to export your artificial culture 
— 
to underdeveloped nations, from the cradle to the casket.” 
Giggle, giggle. ‘You send us bottles we cannot sterilize 
adequately, to fill with expensive formula that must be 
watered down so we can afford it.” Triumphant giggle. 
“But if you want a formula for living, | can give you that, 
as | have done with many famous people....” 
Flashiebackie: 
Back in the mountains of India, the Giggling Maharishi 
is listening patiently to the Beatles singing Hey, Jude under 
a tree. When they get to the line, “Take a sad song,” in the 
lyrics, he stops them abruptly and says: ““| demand to know 
why the four of you have decided to leave so suddenly, 
after all I’ve done for you.” 
John: “You're supposed to know everything. So why 
should we tell you?” 
George: “‘Wait, | think we own him an explanation.” 
Paul: “’The truth is, we discovered that you gave each of 
us the exact same so-called individualized mantra.” 
Ringo: “Of course, we had to betray your confidence in 
order to find that out.” 
The Giggling Maharishi angrily takes his portable tank of 
nitrous oxide and leaves, while the Beatles continue singing: 
“— and make it better...” 
Tongue Fu sneaks around the grounds until he chances 
upon this pastoral scene: a couple of dozen females in their 
teens and twenties, all sitting quietly crosslegged in a large 
circle in the meadow, each simultaneously munching on a 
brownie, nursing a baby with one breast and pumping the 
other breast of its milk into a special container. 
He recognizes his sister among them, but rather than 
interrupt, he walks slowly around their perimeter, playing 
a soothing melody on his kazoo. Several of the women look 
up, smile and utter *’ Far out.” 
One by one, they get up and pour the contents of their 
special containers into a huge Mason jar. When Tongue Fu’s 
sister does this, he approaches her and introduces himself. 
“Whew,” she says. “I’ve been eating hash brownies all 
morning. This is quite a heavy trip you've picked to lay on 
someone so thoroughly stoned as | am.” 
“Did not our mother ever make mention of me?” 
“Yes, once. But she may be the only thing you and | have 
in common.” 
“| wish only to make contact. May | hold your child?” 
“Sure. Here, Kilo”— she carefully passes the baby— 
“say hello to your Uncle Tongue.” 
“| have never held a child before.” 
A totally non-verbal quarter-of-an-hour later, Tongue Fu 
leaves, just in time to join that group of disgruntled dairy 
industry conventioneers, all being given free samples of 
Maharishi Hashish Yogurt. 
On the way to store his yogurt stash in the office 
refrigerator, Tongue Fu spots the frankfurter maker, weeping 
bitterly into his sauerkraut. 
“That fuckin’ Department of Agriculture,” he cries. 
“Now they’re gonna permit fatty hog jowls to be used in 
hot dogs. I'm so discouraged.”” 
An eager passerby pulls a tissue out of a box and hands 
it to the frankfurter maker. 
“Here, wipe away your tears with this.” 
The tissue has a stenciled portrait of an obese teenager 
with the caption: Who Is Guru Golly Ji? 
The frankfurter maker blows his nose and smears the 
image. 
[Continued, page 641/ 
