fay! 
housewives some barter 
katie bs food; 
Americans a better education on techno-— 
lished. The Woody Guthrie tradition resurrected 
vspaper format. If you eat, then read People 
| (50¢ per copy or $10 membership or free 
mmmitted yourself to the land reform 
experienced by the U.S.A. in adapting its 
F 
government to modern requirements, and in 
ng effective means of controlling development, 
an the basically crude and clumsy device of the 
Stor 10 1 NOW Owns an area greater than the adminis- 
trativ e area of the city, approximately 61,750 acres, of 
hich 10, ,000 are within the city limits. Much of this 
is leased t 
to private developers or housing co-operatives, 
uilding leases of between 50 and 75 years. Most of 
)ost-war 
development has taken place on city-owned 
by various organisations working on land leased 
n 
the city. This is the key to the dynamic and success- 
tion of the Stockholm metropolitan plan, and 
lis respect Sweden is a long way ahead of North 
Where the city wishes to have a green belt or 
rve, the land can be protected from develop- 
ment 
ithout paying ransom to speculators. And “cluster” 
el pment, at relatively high densities, keyed in with 
ransit system, is undertaken without the sort 
of 
T nents that-cHaracterise North American zoning pro- 
he cluster satellites are built where it is 
d best to build them, in accordance with the master 
ot simply where this or that landowner wishes to 
ure is so infinitely more effective in producing an 
2able and convenient environment than is common in 
prt America, that it deserves careful study, as a model; 
‘municipal ownership is the key. _ 
ites 
7 
Bes 
TONGUE FU 
= 
MEETS HIS MOTHER 
Pat 
In a funky mid-Manhattan apartment, a dignified grey- 
_ haired woman in a nurse’s uniform is dusting her Tiffany 
“ ~ kerosene lamp. She is waiting for a visit from her son. She 
hasn't seen him since he was an infant. 
be 
_ Outside, the pace on this Friday afternoon is restless. 
_ Tongue Fu observes people rushing along the sidewalk only 
to stand on line for a bus. A traffic light signals Don’t 
Walk, and he is bypassed by citizens hurrying frantically 
| across the street. 
_ 
“When the sign says Do Not Walk,’ Tongue Fu remarks 
Ie to a hot chestnuts vendor on the corner, “it is perceived 
as Run.” 
“It don’t say Do Not, it says Don’t, can'tcha read 
_ English, buddy?” 
= he “Yes. But | do not ever use contractions.” 
lesa “Oh, yeah? Why don‘tcha?” 
‘The traffic light signals Walk. Tongue Fu smiles at the 
_ hot chestnuts vendor and shrugs his shoulders as he steps 
off t 
the curb. When he reaches the other side of the street, 
_ he sees a metal tab in the gutter, discarded from the top 
of a soda pop can. He automatically picks it up... 
‘Flashiebackie: 
Walking along the beach, Say When Daddy steps on a 
yged piece of glass, broken off from a Coca-Cola bottle. 
incing, he draws young Tongue Fu's attention to it. 
_ “Did you not take notice of this object,” the blind old 
asks, “that which now causes my foot to bleed so 
am sorry, master.” 
'No, do not apologize. But you cannot attain true inner 
without practicing responsibility. You must walk 
this beach each morning and pick up whatever might 
dangerous to someone else.” 
of Rural Studies thought can be read in Who Owns 
the Land? A Primer on Land Reform in the USA by 
Peter Barnes and Larry Casalino (65¢ postpaid: bulk 
rates available). 
There are many, many more right- 
on pamphlets. 
A land trust seeks to take land permanently off the 
market. 
It operates on the principle that land can 
be used and cared for but not owned, that those who 
live on a piece of land are its stewards, its trustees; 
that when they die off or move off the land it passes 
to another steward. 
Usually Land Trusts are formed 
by non-profit organizations in which the land is 
deeded eternally to the Trust—— not to the individuals 
occupying the land. Many 
land trusts have been 
formed with a great diversity of goals and legal 
arrangements—— all have broken the real estate 
speculator’s bludgeon. 
Write the Center for a list of 
land trusts now in existence. 
—PW 
Center for Rural Studies 
345 Franklin St. 
San Francisco, CA 94102 
“How long must | continue to practice such 
responsibility?” 
“Until you find yourself doing so without being aware 
any longer of the reason.” 
“But suppose | am the only one to do this?” 
“Why, then, Anteater, you should be pleased, for that 
will show you have no ulterior motive, such as wanting 
something in return. You shall learn how to maintain 
conscious innocence.” 
“How is it possible for innocence to be conscious?” 
“Isn't that a bitch?” replies Say When Daddy, applying 
a tourniquet to his wounded foot. 
“Is that not a bitch?” repeats young Tongue Fu.... 
“Because of the length of my tongue,” he is now 
telling his mother what he didn’t tell the hot chestnuts 
vendor, “| have had to learn to speak very carefully. So 
that it will not show.” 
“My only obligation is to explain the circumstances 
which brought about your abnormal tongue. | promised 
your father that, before | left Japan. During World War 
Two, he was a volunteer Kamikaze pilot. They had all been 
trained in mysticism. It was necessary for them not to be 
concerned about death. Not when the premeditated loss of 
their own lives— in the process of destroying an American 
aircraft carrier— would save so many other Japanese lives. 
“However, in 1945, there were those among their leaders 
preparing to surrender. Nevertheless, Japanese intelligence 
agents discovered that the United States had so much 
invested in developing the atomic bomb that they had to 
be dropped. Say When Daddy’s suicide mission was to 
prevent those planes from ever taking off. But his plane 
was shot down first. 
“He survived, except for his eyesight. His flying goggles 
had melted into his eyeballs. | was an Air Force nurse at 
the time, and | happened to be assigned to his case. He was 
so ashamed to find himself alive in an enemy hospital that 
Hara-kiri seemed to be his only alternative. 
“Well, it was as though | had become a personification 
of the life force, overshadowing even the urge of his 
spiritual conditioning. And so you were conceived one night 
in an American hospital bed somewhere between 
Hiroshima and Nagasaki.” 
The tea kettle boiling on the stove whistles at such a 
high pitch that one of the teacups breaks. Tongue Fu’s 
mother pours the tea into two other cups. 
: 
“Nine months later,’’ she sighs with tortured regret, 
= 
« LAND TRUSTS. 
Alfred De La Cruz, Gabriel Martinez, Gelacio Medina, 
Ana-Leticia De La Fuente and their families decided last 
year to go into farming on their own. They had lots of 
farming experience, but very little capital and no land. 
They pooled their savings to make a downpayment on 
40 acres of land. But they needed more cash to complete 
the payments, purchase equipment, level the land and 
install a well. So they leased a separate plot of five acres 
and began planting cherry tomatoes. A $5,000 loan from 
the West Side Planning Group, a community economic 
development corporation, enabled them to buy seedlings, 
stakes, and other supplies needed for the tomato venture. 
Throughout the summer and fall, the members of the 
co-op worked on their own five acres as well as for wages 
on other nearby farms. They not only produced a 
beautiful cherry tomato crop; they succeeded in timing 
it so that their harvest occurred when the prices were 
highest. Their gross for the year was over $80,000. 
“| was nursing you for the first time. And your tongue... 
unreeled 
... around my nipple. | went into shock. The 
doctors said your condition was a result of atomic fallout 
affecting the genes. 
“Forgive me, my son, but I had to flee. | just couldn't 
bear to give suckle even a second time to this... freak. So 
I left you with your father in a monastery. 
“I returned here. Met a nice man. Got married. Gave 
birth to a normal daughter. Eventually got divorced... and 
am settled in my life. | work at a hospital; | have my friends. 
“The last | heard of your half-sister, she was pregnant 
and unmarried, in that order. We don’t have much contact. 
She’s a disciple of some guru. Here’s her picture. Now 
please go. It’s the kindest thing you can do.” 
In a slight state of confusion, Tongue Fu wanders along 
Broadway. 
He goes into a dilapidated arcade with a sign in front 
that says AMUSEMENT CENTER. He stumbles past the 
mechanical Gypsy Lady in an isolation booth waiting to 
tell his fortune. Past the steering wheel that would permit 
him to drive down an obstacle-filled revolving road. Past 
the machine that he could stand on to have his feet 
vibrated. Past the miniature hockey game. Past the little 
metal prizefighters ready to go into action at the drop of 
a coin. 
He finally stops at an anti-aircraft gun. Faded lettering 
invites him to Bomb the Japs Off the Map! “Not still,’ he 
mumbles and walks out determinedly. Chinning himself 
easily up over the entrance, with his tongue snapping out 
again and again like a secret organic weapon, he 
selectively destroys certain letters in the word AMUSEMENT 
so that now the sign in front reads SEMEN CENTER. 
In the window, a display of rubber masks resembling 
show business and political celebrities all stare unseeingly 
at the strangeness of his performance, with the exception 
of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, who winks at him. 
[Continued, page 489] 
489° 
:
WS,
UNW
