Sexual Honesty 
(By Women For 
Women) 
Compiled and edited by 
Shere Hite 
1974; 294pp. 
$1 -50 postpaid 
from: 
Warner Paperback Library 
Trade Sales Division 
Independent News Company 
75 Rockefeller Plaza 
New York, NY 10019 
or Whole Earth 
The price at bookstores is $1.50, but if you cannot 
afford this, please write me for a copy. Bulk orders 
are available to women’s groups at a 50% discount. 
My hope is that these books will serve as forums for 
sharing our information and feelings, and for:gradually 
building up an honest, collective and woman-defined 
picture of female sexuality and culture. 
Shere Hite 
c/o NOW New York 
47 East 19 St. 
New York, NY 
10003 
When | masturbate | never have any trouble coming 
+ | did have to learn to masturbate. 
It’s worth noting 
at | was 29 when | started—— | had tried once before 
tt hadn’t been successful. 
| didn’t know what the 
oris was for! Sex education for girls should include 
mesturbation along with all the other “facts of life’! 
ring intercourse | have to be in the mood, not up- 
fight, then I can usually come. 
That just depends on so many factors. Sometimes 
ould like to go on after my man has come. Occasion- 
Ill masturbate but usually | repress it until the next 
when | can masturbate alone. | still feel somewhat 
@|fconscious when he’s there, although | feel | should 
lercome that. During masturbation | guess | come about 
Hozen times. 
. 
| would like to try having sex outside in a setting 
like the warm, luxuriant garden | mentioned before, and 
ould like to spend a whole day with my husband 
ing prolonged and repeated sex. 
| would like to 
e sex more often than we do now, and | would like 
HUMAN SEXUALITY 
by Michael Phillips 
Dt. Kinsey and the Institute for Sex Research—— Wardell B. 
Pomeroy; Signet J5354-$1.95. 
- Alfred Kinsey, a genius, who's life story is fascinating as 
irror of the American experience in sex. A 20th century 
ntroversy as violent as Darwin’s. A man who's research is 
ti!! accurate and fundamental 25 years later because he did 
the field work himself (10,000 personal interviews with 
ery segment of society). He was a great scientist in an 
unexplored world; he said ‘“a nymphomaniac is a person 
o has more sex than you do.” 
he important thing is that few people would have believed, 
fore our Report, that a third of American males had had 
least one homosexual experience. 
Individual variations. When we talk about variation 
hong individuals, we mean something like the difference 
between 1 to4,or6 to20. The smallest person in our 
iety, for example, might be twenty-five inches high, and 
e tallest eight feet, or a variation of 1 to 10. Again, penis 
e€ may vary from the smallest, one inch, to the longest, 
inches. This is the normal kind of range. But in sex 
havior, because there are so many variables involved, the 
ge can be from 1 to 10,000. 
People have difficulty 
derstanding this fact. For example, roughly 10 percent 
women never have orgasm, but it is possible for 
a woman 
havea to 75 orgasms in twenty minutes. The range is 
endous. 
en those of us doing the research became accustomed 
the idea of this range, we were exceedingly frustrated 
we realized how few people could accept it. 
the Report of the Commission on Obscenity and 
-Ornography— Bantam. DZ 6512— $1.65. 
e President disowned this authoritative study; because it 
Ss Some interesting facts: Pornography is good. 
veral recent studies suggest that traditional hypotheses 
_ 
sender differences in psychosexual responses may require 
sion. These studies indicate that while males tend to judge 
Otic stimuli as more arousing than females, the sexes do not 
fer substantially in physiological-sexual response to these 
imuli. Not surprisingly, research indicates that females are 
SS responsive to male-oriented erotica, but about equally 
SPonsive to heterosexual action themes. Differences in 
ycho-sexual response between the sexes appear to be 
Sentially qualitative, rather than quantitative. 
udies show that exposure to erotic stimuli may also 
mporarily increase the frequencies of erotic dreams and 
xual fantasy, particularly among unmarried persons, and 
ay increase conversation about sexual matters among 
bth married and unmarried persons. Studies of married 
uples’ responses to erotic stimuli found that after exposure, 
The Atlas of Sexual Pleasures 
Far the best photographic sex book. Entirely in color 
—— good quality at that—— full range of bodily 
details and human practices, and charming models 
(German). People seize this book and don’t put 
it down till they’ve checked clear through it. 
Good for all ages; | imagine the curious young 
would gain the most from having one around. 
—SB 
Over 130 FULL ¢ 
The female breast ic 
The Atlas of 
Sexual Pleasures 
(Acts, Practices 
& Deviations) 
Gunther Hunold 
1972; 173pp. 
$9.95 postpaid 
from: 
Medco Photo-Books 
1640 S. La Cienega Blvd. 
Los Angeles, CA 90035 
or Whole Earth 
one of the m 
brings some women 
fo orgasm. 
the part before intercourse to last longer. 
| would like 
to change our bedroom scene so that my husband would 
treat sex in a less routine way. 
41. My first lesbian experience was incredibly electri- 
fying—— and a brief affair | had later with 
a woman 
who was an unbelievably tender and romantic lover. 
Also Susan! 
husbands and wives reported more agreeable and “increased 
openness’’ in marital communication. 
Understanding Human Sexual Inadequacy—— Fred 
Bellivean and Tim Richter—— Bantam Q245959, $1.25. 
An authorized version of Masters and Johnson's work; clear 
guide to major findings in treating sexual dysfunctions. 
They define premature ejaculation as inability to delay 
ejaculation long enough 
for the woman to have orgasm fifty 
percent of the time. 
If the female is not able to have orgasm 
for reasons other than the rapid ejaculation of her pecier 
this definition does not apply. Other therapists define 
premature ejaculation as inability to delay ejaculation 
for 
thirty seconds to a minute after the penis is in the vagina. 
Until Human Sexual Response was published in 1966, there 
were no large-scale observations of the female’s physiologic 
response to sexual stimulation and her capability of having 
orgasm. These studies, which demonstrated the sexual 
capacity of women, added to Masters and Johnson’s contact 
with women in treatment of sexual problems, have shown 
them clearly the role of our culture in inhibiting female 
sexuality. Their comment on the situation is too startling 
to repeat in any but their own words. 
Yet, woman’s conscious denial of biophysical 
capacity rarely is a completely successful venture, 
for her physiological capacity for sexual response 
infinitely surpasses that of man. Indeed, her 
significantly greater susceptibility to negatively 
based psychosocial influences may imply the 
existence of a natural state of psycho-sexual- 
social balance between the sexes that has been 
culturally 
established (italics added) to neutralize 
woman’s biophysical superiority. 
A man in good health, who has a partner in whom he is 
interested and who is interested in him, should enjoy an 
active sex life even in his eighties. 
Ignorance is one of the greatest deterrents to effective 
sexual functioning at all ages, but it has been most 
damaging to the aging. 
Masters and Johnson explain to older BeOpIe that they 
must allow nature a little more time to take her course, 
If a man stops trying to will an erection, but just lets it 
happen naturally, he will continue to be potent. 
Instruc- 
tions given to aging couples also include techniques of 
stimulating foreplay 
. The wife is made to understand 
that she should not interpret the slower responses of her 
husband as evidence that he does not find her attractive 
anymore. 
Instead, both are encouraged by the therapists 
to learn to enjoy the longer period of foreplay. In 
addition, the wife can learn the skill of inserting the 
enis when it is not fully erect, knowing that the first 
ew thrusts will add the necessary stimulation to get full 
erection. 
Because of lessened ejaculatory demand and better 
ejaculatory control, a man, often for the first time in 
his life, finds it easy to satisfy a wife whose responses 
were always slower than his. The wife now has the oppor- 
tunity to feel sexual in a way that she never had before. 
The husband really has become a better lover. 
The most important change for older couples to be aware 
SEX 
42. With myself—— | was 18 or 19 (clitoral stimula- 
tion). With a man, age 16, close body contact. My 
first orgasm, age 26, during heterosexual intercourse. 
With a woman, mutual masturbation, age 28. 
| guess | looked at my vagina and genitals as carefully 
as | could at about 26 or 27. (I went to Catholic 
schools and was raised in the 50’s—— the Great American 
Repression.) 
of, however, is that as he ages the older man definitely 
has less need to ejaculate. 
“YES” Books $1.95 each, from: 
Multi Media Resource Ctr., 
540 Powell St., San Francisco, CA 94102. 
The authoritative do it yourself guides—— with photos. 
1. “You Can Last Longer’’ — End premature ejaculation. 
2. ‘Female Self-Pleasuring’’ -— Toward full orgasm. 
3. ‘‘Female Homosexuality’’ — How to. 
4. “‘Male Homosexuality’’ — how to. 
5. “Male Self-Pleasuring””—— End secondary impotence. 
You Can Last Longer 
SUCCESS IN CONTROLLING EJACULATION 
What it takes to make it work: 
Both partners have to want to work together. 
Both partners have to take the time to work on it. 
Both partners have to put off immediate gratification in 
order to have long range gratification. 
Both partners have to be willing to bare themselves 
to each other. 
Both partners have to stick with it. 
International Museum of Erotic Art - 540 Powell, 
San Francisco. 
The best public resource; touring shows, worth seeing. 
AJUIN
