animal and fish life and is unbalancing to nature. What 
do about the garbage of industrial production is a big 
estion all over the world, particularly in the capitalist 
ntries where profits get priority. In China, this problem 
now being tackled. Industry is at work to control pollution 
recycle waste materials. 
—(Writing group of the Tientsin 
- 
Municipal Revolutionary 
. 
Committee, 1971) 
he Chinese offer us the only working alternative model to 
vironmental destruction in the name of profits. It is an 
omplete and somewhat flawed model, but well worth 
dying for some good hints on how things might be 
erwise in our own backyard. Real ecology fanatics might 
ant to chase down infrequent other articles which have 
peared in such magazines as The Far Eastern Economic 
pview, Clear Creek, Eastern Horizons, and, yes, even the 
all Street Journal. 
WOMEN 
IN CHINA 
e position of women has changed dramatically in China 
er the last twenty five years. Arranged marriages, bound 
et, taboos against divorce or remarriage and the virtual 
rvant bondage of young wives to mothers-in-law are all in 
e past. Women now work in every conceivable occupation 
om repairing high tension wires and oil drilling, to politics 
hd the arts. 
: 
lomen have indeed been liberated. But in many ways their 
beration has been unlike the process in the west. Frowning, 
the Chinese do, on individualism, women’s freedom has 
volved around the struggle to become equal to men; to 
hare occupational opportunities which will allow both 
omen and men “‘to build socialism’’, together. 
ay care centers, maternity leave, health care, a new 
arriage law, equal job and educational opportunities have 
eated a situation where there are relatively few social or 
olitical differences between men and women. 
Fora look at the Chinese woman of the past, try A 
aughter of Han, by Ning Lao T’ai-t’ai, (as told to Ida 
ruitt, Stanford Univ. Press, 1967, paper, 245 pp., $2.95). 
his is the autobiography of a working woman who lived 
om 1867-1938. It gives a good sense of the incredibly hard 
and demeaning position of women in old China. 
he mother-in-law, showing the effects of a hard life, was 
ittle more than a living corpse, so Gold Flower did not suffer 
uch from that quarter as did most Chinese brides. But her 
usband made up for this lack, treating her worse than a 
ozen mothers-in-law. She had to wait on him, day and night. 
hen he went to sleep she had to take off his shoes and 
Jothing; in the morning she had to put them on again. She 
ad to light his cigarettes, pour his water, hand him the cup 
ith both hands and with a subservient smile on her face. 
He struck her daily as a matter of course and beat her 
~ 
nmercifully if she did not obey his commands on the 
stant. 
rc 
—(Jack Belden, 1949) 
One of the first acts of the Communist Government upon 
assuming power, was to promulgate a marriage law which 
Completely redefined the rights of women and children in 
ew China. For people interested in the women’s movement, 
his is an interesting document. The Marriage Law of the 
eoples Republic of China, (Foreign Languages Press, 3rd 
dition, 1973, paper, $.25) Also, you might look at another 
damphlet from China, New Women in China, (Foreign 
anguages Press, 1973, paper, 80 pp., $.50) 
Women and Child Care in China, by Ruth Sidel, (Penguin, 
baper, 1973, $1.95) is the best comprehensive report on what 
is like to be a woman in China and how children are raised. 
t deals with marriage, pregnancy, child birth, day care center, 
indergarten, curricula etc. Interesting for anyone trying to 
et up such institutions in this country. Both Ms. Sidel and 
er husband (a doctor) have been to China. 
ith the increasing bankruptcy of the rural economy in 
ecent years, the basis for men’s domination over women has 
lready been undermined. With the rise of the peasant 
ovement, the women in many places have now begun to 
brganize rural women’s associations; the opportunity has 
ome for them to lift up their heads, and the authority of 
he husband is getting shakier every day... 
—(Mao Tse-tung, 1927) 
Women in China, Studies in Social Change and Feminism, 
by Marilyn Young (Center for Chinese Studies, University 
of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 1973, paper, 259 pp., 
$3.50) is a fine pot pouri of articles by Chinese and American 
Omen. The emphasis is on comparing the movements and 
he Problems (often quite different in each country) that 
hinese and American women have confronted. 
HEALTH CARE IN CHINA 
he health care system in China is perhaps the best system in 
any country in the world. It cares for 800 million people. 
Omparisons with the past are stark; there used to be no 
ealth care for 90% of the Chinese people, now everyone is 
attended to, and it is virtually free. 
he Chinese seem to have long since learned the lesson that 
-., 
[Le 
many neighborhood health clinics are learning in this 
country: namely, most illnesses do not need to be treated 
or diagnosed by a highly skilled specialist who has spent 
years in school. Cases that are severe are simply referred 
upwards from “Barefoot Doctor” in the countryside to 
commune clinic, to provincial hospital and on to a brain 
surgeon in Peking if the illness requires it. Tens of thousands 
of people are trained each year as medics, clinicians and in 
preventive medicine. It is the generalist rather than the 
specialist which is the backbone of Chinese health care. 
* Away With All Pests, by the English surgeon Joshua Horn 
(Monthly Review, 1971, paper, 192 pp., $2.45) is a 
wonderful book. Horn taught and practiced in China for 
many years in large city hospitals as well as rural areas. He 
talks about medical training, the retraining of urban raised 
doctors to go to the country and aid in massive campaigns to 
wipe out VD, flies (both now non existent in China), 
shistosomiasis bearing snails, mosquitoes, 
& contaminated 
drinking water: health through information and grass roots 
education where the “doctor” plays a relatively small role. 
This is indeed a very hopeful book for doctor and layman 
alike... and anyone else who may doubt that there are better 
ways to deal with the sick than through Park Avenue doctors. 
If you have an illness, put a red sticker in your bowl when 
finished, and special care will be taken in washing the bowl. 
—(Sign in Peking restaurant, 
1971) 
*The Scalpel, The Sword, by Ted Allan and Sydney Gordon 
(Monthly Review, 1973, paper, 319 pp., $3.95) is an 
interesting story about Norman Bethune, the Canadian 
doctor (and, now, Chinese folk hero) who worked with 
the People’s Liberation Army in the 1930's. He died of 
septicemia after performing an operation on a Chinese in 
1939. Gives a good sense of how the Chinese put together 
health, put the stress on the rural areas. 
; A oe 
—(Mao Tse-tung, 1969) 
ee 
ee: 
} 
rie. 
il 
For all you acupuncture buffs, take a look at Acupuncture, 
ln 
it
by Felix Mann (Vintage, 1971, paper, 234 pp., $1.95). Quite 
Fe 4}
technical. Goes into the Chinese classics on acupuncture plus 
ay 
Dr. Mann’s own more scientific explanation of how it works. 
Be. 
j
* The Chinese have also put out a short pamphlet, 
oe 
.
Acupuncture Anaesthesia, (Foreign Languages Press, 1972, 
aimee 
37 pp., $.35) which has photos and text. 
If you are curious about Maoist Psychiatrics, and read 
French, track down, La Sante Mentale en Chine, by 
Gregoriao Bermann (Henri Maspero, 1, Place Paul-painleve, 
Paris Ve, France, 1973, 258 pp., 38.00 francs). Maoist 
psychotherapy is indeed a fascinating subject. The Chinese 
detest Freud and bourgeois individualistic therapy on the 
aS 
couch. They tend more towards treating the mentally Late 
a 
foal af 
through group work and community context. In any event, 
“a 
there are very very few psycopathic people in China. 
my 
* T’ai-chi Chuan, or Chinese shadow boxing, is widely 
aM 
practiced in China as physical therapy. The ancient art has 
| 
been catching on here at home of late in the tidal wave quest 
dl 
for health and tranquility in our increasing unhealthy and 
untranquil world. If T’ai-chi is your bag, try T’ai Chi Chuan, 
Mind and Body in Harmony, by Sophia Delza, (Simon and 
Sed i 
Schuster, 1972, paper, 189 pp., $1.95). 
ae 
4 tis] 
* And don't forget, Chairman Mao’s Four Minute Physical 
Bi
Fitness Plan, by Maxwell L. Howell (Celestial Arts, 1973, 
64 pp., $3.95). This one includes a 7” L.P. of original Chinese 
music and cadences plus an illustrated book. Maybe we can 
turn some captains of industry on to these communist 
exercises to control their capitalist waistlines. 
x 
* If you want the whole works on Chinese traditional 
AILIN
WOOD
ae: 
In the pediatrics wards of hospitals, relatives are encouraged to visit with the children throughout the day. They are 
given time off from work with no loss of salary. At General Hospital No. 2 in Kwangchow (Canton), a sick child 
dances to the singing and clapping of the daily visitors. 
an amazing health care system with almost no doctors, drugs 
or equipment in their mountain hideaway during World 
War II. 
Another fine collection of articles on medicine and mental 
health care techniques is put out by HEW. Medicine and 
Public Health in The Peoples Republic of China, Edited by 
Joseph R. Quinn, (U.S. Department of Health Education and 
Welfare, Public Health Service, National Institute of Mental 
Health, DHEW Publication No. (IH 72-67), 1972, 304 pp., 
$4.50) is the best available compilation of articles on all 
aspects of Chinese health care. There is a particularly 
interesting article ‘Mental Diseases and Their Treatment,” 
plus others on ‘‘Nutrition,” ‘‘Acupuncture,” “Traditional 
(herbal) Medicine as a Basis for Chinese Medical Practices” 
(herbal medicine is still widely encouraged and used in 
China), and ‘Cancer Research.” 
Medical education must be transformed. It is basically 
useless to study so much... The important thing is that they 
(the doctors) study while practicing. This way doctors sent 
to the countryside will not over rate their own abilities, and 
they will be better than those doctors who have been 
cheating the people and better than the witch doctors. In 
addition, the villages can support them. The more a person 
studies, the more foolish he becomes... In medicine and 
medicine; herbal remedies, acupuncture, moxibustian 
| 
(those clove like things that get stuck into you head and 
burn), try, The Chinese Art of Healing, by Stephen Palos 
} 
(Bantam, 1972, paper, 210 pp., $1.50). Most of these 
techniques have been proven efficacious and are still used 
in China. 
Serving the People: Observation on Medicine in the Peoples 
, 
Republic of China, by Ruth and Victor Sidel (1973, 317 pp., 
a) 
$10.00) is a fine book. These two have been to China twice. 
: 
He is a physician and she a social work supervisor. They 
AM 
learned a lot in China and have a lot to say in return about 
5 
how health care persone! and doctors are trained and 
practice, and how modern Chinese medicine has succeeded 
in combining many traditional herbal remedies with modern 
E 
drug treatment and surgery. This book can be gotten 
af 
through the Josiah Macy Foundation, 1 Rockefeller Plaza, 
owt 
N.Y., N.Y. 10022. 
3 
‘ 
LITERATURE AND PHILOSOPHY 
2 
Mao has strong opinions on the functions of art and literature 
in society; they should serve the people. The Chinese have 
what is called ‘‘socialist realism” art. It is often quite didactic 
and invariably contains a political message. 
