Independent Filmmaking _ 
When | was really green at filmmaking, | could handle every- 
thing but the labs. Someone was sure to ask me: “Do you 
_ want a B-wind reversal master or a color reversal inter- 
negative, and what about pre-fog, post-flash, and inked or 
vi latent edge-numbers—— 7389, 7387, or total reciprocity 
failure?’ 
Well, no book’s going to give you the wisdom and confidence 
you'll get from completing some films. But reading Lenny 
__ Lipton’s book is as comforting as having a good friend who’s 
an auto mechanic. Lipton takes the arcane practice of 
filmmaking and makes it much less mysterious. 
He’s got 
__ 
awarm style and solid information. 
You've just got to 
__ 
*trust a filmmaker who majored in physics and wrote “Puff 
_ 
the Magic Dragon.” He’s also made about 20 films. 
—Tom Schneider 
Independent 
Filmmaking 
Lenny Lipton 
1972; 431pp. 
$5.95 Postpaid 
from: 
Straight Arrow 
c/o Western Book Service 
P.O. Box 3975 
Rincon Annex 
San Francisco, CA 94119 
or Whole Earth 
It has been my experience, from earning a living often as a 
commercial filmmaker, that the success of even a professional 
is absolutely dependent upon his sense of himself as 
instrinsically independent: commerce, for him, is a means 
toan end; and, while its limitations may trap him creatively 
in the end, the meantime of his rise to commercial 
recognition is, almost always, conditioned by his independence 
of attitude within a job limitation. Gertrude Stein wrote 
that there are only two kinds of people: ‘independent 
dependents’ and ‘dependent independents.’ 
| think this 
‘book is written for both of these possibilities. 
| stress this 
point, as introduction, because | think Mr. Lipton takes 
__ his ability, naturally, for granted: whereas ‘the reader,’ 
whoever he may be, will find this the most crucial question 
when imagining himself as filmmaker. 
| wish to encourage 
him to take full advantage of this happily open and un- 
- 
_ prejudiced text to focus his sense of himself in preparation 
~s 
for any making he may consider. 
—Stan Brakhage 
The New Documentary in Action 
It seems to me that good documentary really pushes the 
limits of a director's (and editor’s) talents. 
There’s no 
famous novel to fall back on, no machismo from established 
stars, no high gloss costumes or sets to steal attention from 
the content. Small wonder that many fail. This book is 
about some documentaries that were successful (though not 
financially). 
It’s also about the kind of combative people 
who thrive on the inconsistencies of reality and who are able 
to seize the opportunities to make art out of things as they 
are. 
: 
If you're not an avid TV viewer, you may have never seen 
most of the films examined here. But this doesn’t diminish—— 
it increases the book’s value. Documentaries in all kinds of 
strange forms are currently renascent. But they're as 
difficult as ever to see. 
The book gives access to this vital 
field of filmmaking through interviews with directors, and, 
in some cases, the editors and camera persons involved. 
It’s fascinating reading, even if you haven’t seen the film. 
—Tom Schneider 
The New 
entary 
Documac tion! 
Alan Rosenthal soos ‘in Flies WakIOT 
The New Documentary 
in Action: 
A Casebook in Film Making 
Alan Rosenthal 
1971; 287pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
— 
from: 
University of California Press 
2223 Fulton St. 
Berkeley, CA 94720 
or Whole Earth 
Fundamental working relationships have also been modified, 
particularly in regard to the director's dependency on his 
cameraman and editor. As Allan King points out in the 
rs ee 
ee 
tt nee, 
is<” 
Wind noises can be attenuated by rolling off the low requency 
MUST BE PREPARED 
IN ORDER TO END BELOW —ITS 
MAKE A WELO—ALL EMULSION 
UNDER SURFACE 
AND BINDER MUST BE REMOVED 
MUST BE CLEAN 
HY 
response below 100 Hz, 3 dB, 6 dB or even more. Rolling 
off the lows won’t change the properties of recorded voice 
and will help to reduce the rumbling sound the wind makes. 
The human voice can be given added emphasis, or presence, 
as sound engineers call this, to make it sound closer or more 
live, or present. What's usually needed is a 3 to 6 dB boost 
in the mid-range or 3000 Hz region. Sibilance, which is often 
the result of using a cardioid microphone too close to the 
speaker, can be helped by rolling off the highs, or sounds 
from about 5000 to 10,000 Hz, although it’s questionable 
that any manipulation of frequencies in the 10,000 Hz region 
will have any effect on the final optical track—— which 
Presently barely responds to 7000 Hz. 
off, The base side of the 
upper piece 
of film can be 
scraped 
or wiped with 
cement to cleanit. A good 
spliceis actually a weld, 
. 
lower right: one side of 
the base is dissolved into 
the base of the other film. 
A Splice Is a Weld. At left, 
amagnified drawing of a 
section of film showsits 
principal layers (the visibility 
of the binder is greatly exag- 
gerated). Before splicing, 
lower left, the emulsion (and 
binder) should be scraped 
THIS IS THE FILM 
ENO TO BE 
WELDED 
Des 
TO THE PREPARED 
WELDED AREA 
Getting Credit 
Some labs require you to pay for your work as you pick it 
up at the front desk; others may extend credit and bill 
you monthly. Whether or not you can get credit depends 
solely upon whether or not you already have credit. 
If you 
don’t have credit, you usually can’t get credit. 
Here’s one way to establish credit: save some money and 
start a savings account. ‘Now take out a Joan for about the 
same amount, using your passbook for collateral. Pay it 
back as specified, never missing or making a late payment. 
This is easy since you've already saved the money. When 
you've finished paying off the ‘loan,’ you have credit. 
Credit is a good thing to have for several reasons: 
if you 
have already paid cash for work the lab has performed, you 
are at a psychological disadvantage if you attempt to have 
them make good an error. 
Paying one bill a month instead 
of several can help you keep your records straight; and 
there are those lean months when the bill is heavy: then you 
can make a partial payment, deferring the rest, although 
you may have some interest added to your bill. 
discussion of A Married Couple, when the director has to 
rely on the undirected spontaneous work of the cameraman, 
there has to be an extremely sophisticated understanding 
between the two or the film concept can be ruined. 
The editing room, too has assumed a position of uniformly 
greater importance and has become the place where, more 
often than not, the film is really composed and structured. 
This is not to disparage or dispute the place of creative 
editing in the films of, say, Lorentz or Jennings, or to forget 
the brilliant rhythmic sequences of Night Mail. 
It is merely 
to be aware of the strikingly different problems in working 
from fully scripted, controlled footage and in trying 
to create 
~ 
order out of material caught on the fly. This means in practice 
that the editor's task has increased both in difficulty and 
creative potential, and that the conscientious director has to 
direct the editing even more closely than he did in the past. 
The first thing a producer learns is that he will get more 
sympathy and action for his ten-minute film about the 
condition of one blind child than for his masterpiece on 
racism in the South that took a year out of his life to make. 
A. The opening scene was one of the most ambitious kind of 
scenes | have ever attempted to film in my life. We had five 
camera crews, end had placed Charles Kuralt, the commen- 
tater, in a helicopter. The idea was that the film would 
open with Kuralt flying over Webster Groves in the helicopter 
and saying, ‘“It has so many people, it has so many churches, it 
has no bars.’ He would then fly over the high school 
and he would land in front of the high school. At 
the very moment of his landing, the doors of the high school 
_ would burst open, and 3,000 screaming, shrieking students 
would run across the field, and surround him, and in the 
midst of all their confusion he would start asking them 
questions like, “How old are you? What kind of 
community is this? What do you like here? Do you date?” 
We did this with five crews, including one in the helicopter 
and one on the roof of the school, and got the clouds of 
dirt from the helicopter, the wind, the noise, the confusion, 
and the kids running madly from the school. 
It was an 
incredible gas of a scene. We cut it to a rock and roll score, 
and it was wild! 
It’s one of the most exciting openings ofa 
-film | have ever seen. Then the vice-president in charge of 
documentaries sat down, looked at that scene, and said, *’I 
never want to see that again. Out! That will not be in this 
picture.” 
: 
: 
Cinematography 
A glossy introductory technical manual mainly for studio 
work, | 
like its clarity. 
a 
Si 
- groups—— San Francisco Mime Troupe to Grotowski. These 
_SB 
— 
RAPHY 
MALKIE 
Cinematography 
from: 
ae 
J. Kris Malkiewicz and 
Van Nostrand Reinhold Co. 
Robert E. Rogers 
Order Dept. 
300 Pike St. 
1973; 216pp. 
$6.95 postpaid 
Cincinnati, OH 45202 
. 
ostpal 
or Whole Earth 
Break Out! 
Good collection of recent strange probings by hungry thea teh
things have been tried, and some worked. What are you 
gonna try? 
3 
—SB 
y 
Break Out! 
James Schevill 
1973; 413pp. 
$4.95 postpaid 
‘from: 
Swallow Press, Inc. 
1139 S. Wabash Ave. 
_ Chicago, !L 60605 
or Whole Earth 
“The Pointer,” The Bread and Puppet Theatre 
at the 24th 
of May Parade in Washington, D.C. 1971. “The Pointer is 
a remarkable Schumann figure who poses in front of — 
monuments, statues, banks—— wherever he pleases —— and 
points an enormous, questioning finger and thumb at these 
public places in a way that makes you reconsider their 
functions.” 
> 
mi 
