d at h 
school and adult learners, this resource guide 
s 
publications, organizations, periodicals, audio, film, 
mes, multi- “media materials. and there is even a 
non “devices”, covering such items as domes, 
ichord kits, alternative computer groups, etc., etc. 
you're looking for, or curious about, you can 
pr lila 
ly locate it somewhere in The Seed Catalog. Combines 
—Sylvia Jacobs 
The Seed Catalog 
(A Guide to Teaching/ 
Learning Materials 
Jeffrey Schrank 
1974; 374pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
Beacon Press 
25 Beacon St. 
Boston, MA 02108 
or Whole Earth 
Seed Catalog is by all means biased and opinionated. 
terials included are more likely to be comparatively 
i 
ive rather than a $300 learning package. The 
materials are biased toward high school and adult learners, 
since they have been more neglected i 
in educational reform 
than younger children. The catalog is prejudiced in favor 
of the humanities and the communication arts with special 
mphasis on media education. 
It is biased in favor of provocative, creative, and controversial 
material and tends to neglect the standard and schoolish. 
Future Pisnaita Maps. . 
. are designed as a series of learning 
activities for small groups. Each ‘“‘map” is a single sheet of 
der that folds out to poster size and has about four 
vities for a small group. For example, the one on 
‘Tomorrow’ s Society?’’ outlines the basic features of a 
Cabitalist society, a welfare societv and a socialist society 
and asks the group to make a majority decision on which 
they would want to live in. Another activity asks each 
dent to redistribute the federal budget money for the 
second half of the decade and an another suggests that 
students “design an improved society.”” 
Maps are available on the topics of “Constructing a Life 
Philosophy,” “Ecology,” “Constructing a Political 
Philosophy,” ’’Prisons’”’ and ‘’Foreign Policy.” Each 
costs $.95 from Greenhaven Press, Box 831, Anoka, MN 
itive Publications 
Fhis is the best wish book for learners and teachers of 
mathematics. Traditional math lab materials plus new stuff 
created by Creative. 
[t’s 
all there—— experimental books, pattern blocks, 
nm imber blocks, measuring devices, Geo-Rings (TM), 
Gelyesdre models and the incredible circle-master compass. 
—Bob Albrecht 
Catalog 
Free 
. from: 
Creative Publications 
P.O. Box 10328 
Palo Alto, CA 94303. 
National Commission on Resources for 
Youth, Inc. 
The NCRY 
serves as an information clearinghouse for youth 
participation projects where young people perform significant 
activities in media, medical service, counseling, the sciences, 
language arts, etc. As initators of innovation and a 
provocative source of ideas, the following Commission 
publications are highly recommended: 
¥outh into Adult (Mildred McCloskey with Peter Kleinbard, 
1974; 209pp., $2.50) Reviews nine youth-oriented projects 
(from over 800 catalogued) throughout the United States; 
outlines the key elements for the type of project that 
chosen for description show a heavy concentration on 
n drugs 
and encounter methods to overcome this “youth problem.” 
Commission publications have a strong “helping” and 
“service” orientation directed at “troubled youth.” 
Resources for Youth—— a free quarterly newsletter that 
describes current high school age youth projects. 
40 Projects by Groups of Kids (7973; 109pp.; $2.00). Brief 
summaries of youth-developed projects, telling how the 
projects got started and how they function. Despite a hit 
of paternalistic bent, the Commission has assembled some 
noteworthy examples of programs for youth. The 
presentations are clear & concise. 
The availability 
of this “resource clearinghouse” provides a great service 
to all those interested in youth. 
—Woody Clark 
National Commission on 
Resources for Youth 
36 West 44th St. 
New York, NY 10036 
Helping a doctor test a 
child for lead-poisoning 
EDU 
Comprehension of the possible uses of computers in 
education is still minimal, and the state of the art relatively 
primitive. EDU is a journal trying to increase the awareness 
of educators and to furnish resource materials on computer- 
based instruction for all levels—— elementary school through 
university. It serves as an exchange for new ideas, and 
fervently solicits contributions from its readers (for pay!). 
In its Summer 1974 issue the announcement was made that 
EDU will be provided free as “part of our continually 
expanding service to the educational community.” Far out! 
(More on computers: Pg. 724) 
EDU 
free to the edu- 
cational community 
from: 
Educational Products 
Group 
Digital Equipment 
Corp. 
Maynard, MA 
01754 
ROSEBUD’S SUICIDE NOTE 
Tongue Fu regains consciousness. He makes his way 
toward Rosebud’s broken body. She is dead. 
The poignant sound of Joan Baez singing Villa Lobos 
is heard across Camp Crap as Tongue Fu struggles up the 
steep cliff, carrying Rosebud under one arm, and grasping 
foliage for support alternately with his other hand and his 
tongue. 
When he reaches the top, he starts to gather their 
clothing and finds a handwritten note in Rosebud’s pocket. 
Although his vision is blurred, he manages to read it. 
Before I take my own life, I’m going to kill Tongue Fu, 
the man who thought he was my lover, but who is in 
reality a symbol of Japanese imperialism. 
They take our oil. 
They take our lumber. 
They take our whales. 
And what do they give in return? 
Pollution of the air. 
Pollution of the water. 
And pollution of the mind. 
They flood America with radios, televisions, phonographs. 
They are buying up our land. 
And they are sneaking in their anti-Christ religion. 
You’d think those lousy Japs had won the war the way 
they’re acting. 
I’m filled with despair when I see what they are doing 
to the ecology. 
But through the grace of Better Your Exit I’m 
leaving behind a ray of hope by taking one of them with me. 
‘ 
—BYE Communication #3 
P.S. Enclosed please find one mysterious Oriental ear, 
the BYE’s calling card, to help you hear us crystal clear. 
Tongue Fu finds the ear in her pocket. He walks to the 
edge of Coincidence Cliff, prepares to jump, changes his 
* mind and’ comes back. He starts to write a note, but stops. 
‘Instead, he kneels beside Rosebud, in front of the bush 
behind which he had placed the motion picture equipment. 
“1 will speak my suicide note on film. It is difficult to 
know where to begin. For | would never have known 
Rosebud— if | had not known Chocolate Graham. | would 
never have known Chocolate— if | had not known.... ” 
Flashiebackie: 
At the police station, Tongue Fu hangs up the telephone. 
Buff Mogul, the theater manager he was arrested with 
at Deep Throat, is scratching his sideburn with excitement. 
Back in their cell, he asks, ““Hey, was that your real 
tongue you dialed the number with or just a novelty item?” 
“It is my real tongue.” 
“Do you realize what a fantastic film we could make 
about you? | can get Sam Peckerpal to direct. My attorney, 
Albert Morse Code, is coming here to bail us out. I’Il have 
him draw up a contract.” 
“1 am not an actor.” 
“You wouldn't have to act. Just play yourself. That’s 
what we all do anyway. Hey, listen, | don’t go around every 
day offering to back a full-budget flick on the spur of the 
moment, but you've got a unique box-office attraction 
there.” 
“| do not wish to exploit my tongue.” 
“Lemme see it again, huh?... ” 
Flashiebackie within Flashiebackie: 
“You must always remember,”’ Say When Daddy is 
telling young Tongue Fu, “that whether your gift of 
tongue is to be a curse or a blessing depends on how 
skillfully you learn to manipulate it. Only after you 
have thoroughly mastered the art of liberation will you 
be able to flow with the commerce of exploitation 
which is the other side of that coin along whose ridged 
edge you wish to roll through life. All right, Anteater, 
you may put your tongue back in your mouth now.... ” 
“That,” says Buff Mogul, “is one helluva tongue. You 
better put it back inside before | flip out. Listen— exploit, 
shmexploit— you'd be able to reach an awful lot of people.” 
Tongue Fu is still prostrate beside Rosebud’s body while 
‘Bob Dylan is wailing /t’s All Over Now, Baby Blue. On the 
‘line, “Take what you have gathered from coincidence,” he 
hears a buzzing and looks up in the sky. A squadron of jet 
bombers is flying by in OM formation. 
[Continued, page 737] 
ON
stl
