i 
* 
« 
ok is judged on how profoundly it affects 
eople’s lives, and how many lives it reaches, this 
20k 
is one of the all time greats. You can’t read 
__ 
it without trying some of the ideas in it, and those 
lead to others, and human relations grow steadily 
_warmer. 
In the writing, the content, and the illus- 
__ trations, warmth is what the book is about. And 
_ imagination, and variety. Contact. Health. The 
sequel, More Joy, /ooks to be even better. 
—SB 
The Joy of Sex 
(A Gourmet Guide 
to Love Making) 
Alex Comfort 
1972; 254pp. 
$4.95 Postpaid 
from: 
Simon & Schuster 
One W. 39th St. 
New York, NY 10018 
Attn: Order Dept. 
or Whole Earth 
More Joy 
Alex Comfort 
1974 
$1 2.95 Postpaid 
from: 
Crown Publishers 
419 Park Ave. S. 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
res 
ere 
tara 
twee 
ae 
sae 
\2 
R> 
oO + 
Women (by her for him) 
Women, like men, have direct physical responses, sure, but 
these are different (breasts and skin first, please, not a direct 
. grab at the clitoris) and can’t be short-circuited. 
It matters 
The fact that, unlike you, we can’t be visibly turned off 
and lose erection often confuses men into hurrying things 
Or missing major resources. 
It isn’t true that nudity, erotica, 
etc., don’t excite women—— probably the difference is that 
they aren’t overriding things. 
Is it fair, | wonder, to give 
a simple instance? You can make orgiastically satisfactory 
love with a near stranger in half an hour flat. But please 
don’t think for that reason that you can do the same for a 
woman who loves you personally if at the end of the half- 
hour you put her into a taxi with a bunch of roses and go 
off to a wife. Granted this, however, there are common 
reactions. 
We seem to be less heavily programmed than you for specific 
turn-ons, but once we see one of these working on a man we 
care about, we soon program it into our own response, and 
can be less rigid and more experimental because of this 
ability. Often if women seem underactive it’s because 
they’re scared of doing the wrong thing with that particular 
+ 
man, like touching up his penis when in fact he’s trying 
not to ejaculate—— fell us if you see us at a loss. The penis 
- 
isn’t a ‘weapon’ for us so much as a shared possession, 
rather like a child—— it's less the size than its personality, 
unpredictable movements, and moods which make up the 
turn-on (which is why rubber dummies are so sickening). 
_ 
Another important thing is the tough-tender mixture: 
obviously strength is a turn-on, but clumsiness (elbows in 
eyes, twisted fingers, etc.) is the dead opposite. .. 
. As to the 
Women’s Lib bit, nobody can possibly be a good lover—— or 
a whole man—— if he doesn’t regard women as (a) people and 
- 
(b) equals. That is really all there is to be said. 
te 
ny ee, are ae ae 
to them who is doing what, far more than it does to most men. 
aw ae) he oe 
~ Our sense of smell is the keener—— don’t oversaturate early 
on with masculine odors; just before orgasm is probably the 
time for full odor contact. Our own smell excites us as 
well as yours. 
The sort of hand and mouth-work which men like varies 
enormously. Some like it very rough, some hate it anything 
but extremely gentle, others in between. There is no way 
for a woman to tell except by asking and being told—— so 
it’s up to the man to say what he likes or he may get the 
opposite. 
Some men are extraordinarily passive, or unimaginative, or 
inhibited, and—— oddly—— when they are any of these 
things, we do not become correspondingly aggressive. We 
may long to do things and feel thoroughly frustrated, but 
we don’t dare show it in most cases. So a woman’s love- 
making will only be good with a good lover and, more 
important, she will resent any man who is unexciting, not 
only because it is unexciting but also because she will 
know she has been unexciting too. 
> 
Finally, just as all women are more alike to a man than all 
men are to a woman, women probably really do differ 
sexually rather more than men, because of the greater 
complexity of their sexual apparatus (breasts, skin and so 
on as well as pussy). Never assume you don’t need to 
relearn for each person. This is true for women with a 
- 
new man, but perhaps a little less so. 
However much sex you have, you will still need simple, own- 
hand masturbation—— not only during periods of separation, 
but simply when you feel like another orgasm. Some women 
feel left out if they find their partner masturbating, but if 
you feel vibrations when he thinks you are asleep and want 
to get in on the act, tackle him there and then and finish him 
yourself at full speed—— or better, start on him slow-style 
then stop, tie him, and make him watch you masturbate 
yourself, slowly and with style, before you put him out of 
his misery. The unexpected sight of a woman giving herself 
an orgasm when he cannot move is unbearably exciting for 
most men. Make sure he can’t get loose. Finally, watching 
each other take the last orgasm separately but together makes 
a wonderful end to any afternoon in bed. 
The quickie is the equivalent of inspiration, and you should 
let it strike lightning fashion, any time and almost anywhere, 
from bed in the middle of the night to halfway up a spiral 
- 
stair: anywhere that you're suddenly alone and the inspira- 
tion is bilateral. Not that one or the other won't sometimes 
specifically ask, but the inspirational quickie is mutual, 
and half the fun is that the preliminary communication is 
Sexual Honesty 
= 
—t™” 
out is sexual honesty. Start with this exciting 
‘book. 
; 
- dulls sensation. And some women may not care for the 
| believe this book has found its way to the very 
center of interest in sex books: What do other 
people do?—— details please. Textbooks, including 
The Joy of Sex, try to generalize satisfaction for 
everybody. Kinsey found, and Shere. Hite proves, 
that wild variety throbs in American bedrooms. 
Furthermore immeasurable human unhappiness 
goes with painting oneself into a sexual corner. The 
NOTE: Shere Hite now has two questionnaires 
going—— one for men and a new one—— more 
elaborate than before—— for women. We printed 
both in the Summer ‘74 CoEvolution Quarterly 
(Pg. 451) so that readers might participate in Ms. 
Hite’s study. Or--— for aphrodisiac—— fill out 
the questionnaire and swap answers with a friend. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Bill Barich] 
| think that very few men that | have known are as inform 
about my sexual desires and about my body as they could 
should be. Even my husband is very uninformed. 
| think 
women can and ought to know more about their bodies 
and their sexuality. 
If they did, maybe more men would. 
If it’s one of those nights when | just want EVERYTHING 
in me, we get into a missionary position where he has his 
penis in my vagina, and | have room to play with the clitor 
and then we put the vibrator in my anus. Wow! Blows m 
mind! 
wordless between real lovers. The rule is never to resist 
this linkup if it’s at all possible—— with quickness, wit and 
skill it usually is. This means proficiency in handling 
sitting, standing and other postures, and making love 
without undressing. The ideal quickie position, the nude 
matrimonial, will often be out. This may mean ona 
chair, 
against a tree, ina washroom. 
If you have to wait and can 
go straight home, it will keep up to half an hour. Longer 
than that and it’s a new occasion. Around the house, try 
not to block, even if you are busy. 
e 
Bondage 
Bondage, or as the French call it, ligottage, is the gentle 
art of tying up your sex partner—— not to overcome reluc- 
tance but to boost orgasm. 
It’s one unscheduled sex 
technique which a lot of people find extremely exciting 
but are scared to try, and a venerable human resource for 
increasing sexual feeling, partly because it’s a harmless 
expression of sexual aggression—— something we badly 
need, our culture being very up-tight about it—— and still 
more because of its physical effects: 
a slow orgasm when 
unable to move is a mind-blowing experience for anyone 
not too frightened of their own aggressive self to try it. 
e 
Feathers 
Recommended by some for skin stimulation (breasts, body 
surface generally, rather than the actual genitals, and 
palms and soles.) Try stiff wiry ones (heron or egret) or 
an old-fashioned feather mop. 
How to Take the Worry Out of Being Close 
Excellent cheap cheerful thorough pamphlet on 
all the contraceptive techniques. 
—SB 
How to Take the 
Worry Out of 
Being Close 
Marian Johnson Gray 
and Roger W. Gray. 
1971; 32pp. 
$ .50 postpaid 
from: 
Box 2822 
Oakland, CA 94618 
Advantages of the condom — It gives the male responsibili 
It offers some protection against veneral disease. 
It is easil 
acquired at most drugstores—— availability can be just as 
important as effectiveness. 
- 
ee 
: 
Disadvantages of the condom—— Foreplay must be in- 
terrupted to put on the condom. 
But since you're probab! 
playing in that general area anyway, ladies, why not make 
part of the play? Some men feel that use of the condom 
feel of a rubber penis; others enjoy being flooded with 
the male’s vital bodily fluids. 
Ay 
