ELECTRONIC MUSIC 
> 
by Don Buchla 
Don Buchla is a designer-builder of electronic music 
: instrumentation in Berkeley, California. 
—SB 
na 
‘ 
SOFTWARE 
_ Recent years have witnessed a coalition in hardware function 
and a consequent refinement of technique that provide us 
with some common ground for communication. A former 
__ 
information vacuum is now occupied by a respectable body 
___ of literature that includes several excellent books and a 
: 
worthy periodical. 
‘Many current books deal with seemingly arbitrary combi- 
Nations of various aspects of electronic music—— future 
works will hopefully exhibit increased focus and might even 
Carry meaningful titles. To assist you in selecting books that 
address your areas of interest, I’ve prepared a multidimen- 
‘sional table, with numbers that indicate the coverage that 
each author grants to particular topics. These numbers 
Primarily indicate depth of coverage, but are occasionally 
influenced by accuracy and comprehensibility. 
no treatment 
incidental (en passant) 
superficial treatment 
introductory treatment 
comprehensive treatment 
exceptionally thorough 
1 
aononwe 
st 
bouow 
wo wa 
To clarify a couple of table headings, ‘‘general”’ implies 
applicability to a wide range of current instrumentation; 
“specific” refers to qualitative, frequently comparative 
data about specified brands of instrumentation. And 
“classical’’ technique, for the sake of this presentation, is 
in addition to rather than inclusive of ‘tape’ technique. 
The Technique of Electronic Music, Thomas Wells & Eric 
S. Vogel, 1974; 291pp., about $10, from University Stores, 
Inc., P.O. Box 7756, Austin, TX 78712. 
The authors contend that ‘‘a knowledge of the basic 
technical processes of electronic music production is essen- 
tial for those working in this medium.” Their presentation 
“assumes a rudimentary knowledge of mathematics,”’ is 
clearly written and illustrated, technically accurate, and 
abundantly referenced. 
The Development and Practice of Electronic Music, Jon H. 
Appleton and Ronald C. Perera, editors, 1975, about $12, 
-from Prentice—Hall, Inc., Box 500, Englewood Cliffs, NJ 
07632, or P.O. Box 18501, Salt Lake City, UT 84118. 
A comprehensive study by six authorities, each reporting 
in depth on a particular aspect of the art. Contributors 
are: 
Otto Luening, A. Wayne Slawson, Gustav Ciamaga, 
Joel Chadabe, John E. Rodgers, and Gordon Mumma. 
Available soon. 
= 
Electronic Music Synthesis, Hubert S. Howe, Jr., 1974, 
$12.50, from W. W. Norton & Co., 500 5th Ave., 
New York, NY 10036. 
A lucid, thorough guide to current studio instrumentation 
and technique, intended for and appropriate to the pre- 
sentation of advanced technical courses. 
Introduction to the Physics and Psychophysics of Music, Juan 
G. Roederer, 1973; 161pp., $5.90, from Springer Verlag, New 
York, Inc., 175 Fifth Ave., New York, NY 10010. 
Sound, being the stuff that music is made of, should be of 
considerable interest to musicians. This is the most thorough 
The Music Easel Weasel 
and clearly presented, not-too-technical explanation of sound 
that I’ve encountered. 
Electronotes: Newsletter of the Musical Engineering Group, 
B. A. Hutchins, editor & publisher, $6/year, from Musical 
Engineering Group, 203 Snyder Hill Rd., Ithaca, NY 14850. 
Electronotes is a bimonthly newsletter established in 1972 to 
facilitate communication among engineers and musicians 
interested in the design and construction of electronic music 
hardware. Schematics and construction details are accompa- 
nied by theory and application notes; product reviews, surplus 
sources, literature reviews and classified ads are regular features. 
A much needed and beautifully executed endeavor. 
Electronic Music Systems: Structure, Control, Product, 
Frank L. McCarty. To be published in a forthcoming issue of 
Perspectives of New Music. Princeton Univ. Press, Princeton, 
NJ 08540. $6.00 semiannually or $5.00 per copy. 
This article is a thorough enumeration and evaluation of the 
design philosophies and hardware characteristics of currently 
available systems. Directed to designers as well as musicians, 
McCarty suggests numerous improvements. 
The Evolution of Electronic Musical Instruments in the 
United States, Thomas L. Rhea, 1972, 250pp., from University 
Microfilms, 300 
N. Zeeb Rd., Ann Arbor, Ml 48106 
A fascinating, remarkably thorough compendium of musical 
instruments and their inventors. 
Illustrations are not included 
in this edition, but might be obtainable from the author 
(Box 274, Hendersonville, TN). 
The synchronous motor used in the instrument was first used 
by Laurens Hammond in an electric clock, the first product 
of the Hammond Company. When the depression caused this 
market to be flooded with similar clocks, Hammond, an 
inventor of considerable talents, invented a device that 
shuffled a pack of playing cards into four piles, and he built 
the device into a bridge table. Some 14,000 of these devices 
were sold in 1932, but the line was discontinued again due 
to the depression. In 1933, Hammond began to search for 
Schwartz. 
two years 
0, 
elp 
of 
Jol 
research engineer, Hammond constructed 
a 
now-famous instrument. 
PaO 
se 
Electronic Music: Systems, Techniques, and Controls, 
Allen 
Strange, 1972, 160pp., $3.95, from Wm. C. Brown C 
: 
2460 Karper Blvd., Dubuque, |A 52001. 
a. 
A practical operations manual for composition and 
: 
performance. Organization is by process, with each section 
offering appropriate acoustic fundamentals, extensive infor- 
mation on technique, and, frequently, application examples 
via patch charts, actual scores, and references to co 
Y 
available recordings. The annotated bibliography i 
excellent guide to pre-1971 materials. 
Age 
; 
* 
Principles and Practice of Electronic Music Gilbert Trythall, 
1973; 213pp., +7"' record, $5.95, from Grosset & Dunlap, 
Inc., 51 Madison Ave. New York, NY 10010. 
_ 
| 
A comprehensive introductory course, with emphasis on tape 
recording and classical studio technique. 
beer 
fits 
ec ete 
Biofeedback and the Arts: Results of Early Experiments, 
David Rosenboom, ed., 1974, about $10.00 from, Aesthetic 
Research Centre of Canada, Publications Dept., P.O. Box 
3044, Vancouver, B.C., Canada V6B 3X5. 
ae 
Rosenboom and his collaborators are engaged in work that 
has profound implications for the creative arts. This wide- 
ranging collection includes schematics and construction 
details for low-cost bio feedback instrumentation. eluci- 
— 
dation of some problems and possibilities concerning live’ 
electronic music performance, and scores for “Brain Music 
for John and Yoko” and ‘‘Portable Gold and Philosophers’ 
Stones (music from brains in fours). Excerpts follow. — 
Iam not very interested in art-world conceptual game 
playing. I am interested in realization. 
‘ 
We began to realize that one of the most likely developmenit 
in the performance of music will involve the direct use of 
brain electrical outputs by means of electronic pick-up 
— 
systems and we have obtained quite dramatic results in this -
way. 
If there is anything of real significance that a musician cou 
teach the world of the scientist, it is how to live intimately 
with his own theory. 
pie 
eee 
e 
We must beware of a new inquisition. 
The choice of w it 
should be the next note should be simultaneously life’s 
most important work and an arbitrary one. 
oe 
Electronic Music: A Listener’s Guide, Elliott Schwartz 
1973; 306pp., $12.50, from Praeger Publishers, Inc., P. 
Box 1323, Springfield, MA 01101. The Liberation of 
Sound: An Introduction to Electronic Music, Herbert 
Russcol, 1972; 315pp., $10, from Prentice-Hall, Inc., 
Box 500, Englewood Cliffs, NJ 07632, or Box 18501, 
Salt Lake City, UT 84118. 
wh 
Two books that deal primarily with contemporary electronic 
music and its roots. 
Both have extensive discographies. 
— 
3 
~ Elliott Schwartz includes description of modern instru-. 
mentation. 
Herbert Russcol provides us with chronologies, 
anecdotes, and extensive quotations. Some Russcol 
excerpts: 
te 
Asked who was doing the best work in electronic music 
Xenakis replied “The Bell Telephone Company”’. 
Y 
... the story goes that his piece, “Kontakte”, was originally 
devised for four percussion players, who, confronted 
by 
problems posed, took to drink, so that Stockhausen was 
obliged to realize three parts by electronic means. 
All this brings us to the fascinating thesis that the nature 
the Buchla machine-beast itself decidely influenced the 
) 
of (Subotnick’s) music. 
A 
: 
[Let's hope so. (D.B.)] 
The New World of Electronic Music, Walter Sear, 
$4.95, from Alfred Publishing Co., 75 Channel Drive 
Washington, NY 11050. 
: 
art 
A well organized introductory primer. 
we 
