The Collective 
Unconscience of 
Odd Bodkins 
Dan O'Neill 
1973 
$4.20 postpaid 
from: 
Glide Publicatons 
' 330 Ellis St. 
San Francisco, Ca 94102 
or Whole Earth 
is nO more remarkable autobiography 
in this 
eam power and intellectual power collided in 
‘ged finally, and carried him pilot-and- 
psychic Gulf Stream, far and strange. He 
entury science with him. 
ditions of this book carry in full the Seven 
the Dead that Bateson reviews below. It was 
rlier editions, from The Collected Works, 
yublished privately and anonymously when it 
ten ( 1916)—— the rarest feather from a rare bird. 
—SB 
-Memories, Dreams, 
Reflections 
-C.G. Jung 
1961; 430pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
Vintage Books 
Random House, Inc. 
457 Hahn Rd. 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
eud was going on this way, | had a curious sensation. 
my diaphragm were made of iron and were 
hot—— a glowing vault. And at that moment 
uch a loud report in the bookcase, which stood 
c 
4s, that we both started up in alarm, fearing 
going to topple over on us. | said to Freud: 
is an example of a so-called catalytic 
on phenomenon.” 
ny 
book 
t 
urning point in a long battle. He clearly 
| Memories, iio Reflections that the days 
E tim. tisk 
was coming out. of a long period of slow 
; 
nfluence of Freud and from the break 
was the moment for a new (or return to a 
Nistory of Man-God-Cosmos. 
icult to read. It is (of course) a sort of 
fore almost impossible to be reviewed 
prose. And Jung’s views clearly changed as 
— 
n the ae or four days of the writing. He 
eoieh whieh from the outer 
and 
souls ye {the Dead] 
THIS ISTHE ONLY UIAY WE ARE 
ALiowse To FE DEATH. 
~OH - SOME PEOPLE Jom 
HANDS AND SUMP WER 
A LOVER'S LEAP-TYPE 
CUFF THING TO FE 
“Oh come,’ he exclaimed. ‘‘That is sheer bosh.”’ 
“It 
is not,” | replied. ‘“You are mistaken, Herr Professor. 
And to prove my point | now predict that in a moment 
there will be another such loud report!’’ Sure enough, no 
sooner had | said the words than the same detonation went 
off in the bookcase.To this day, | do not know what gave 
me this certainty. But | knew beyond all doubt that the 
report would come again. Freud only stared aghast at me. 
1 do not know what was in his mind or what his look meant. 
In any case, this incident aroused his mistrust of me, and 
| had the feeling that | had done something against him. 
| never afterward discussed the incident with him. 
At the beginning of 1944 | broke my foot, and this 
misadventure was followed by a heart attack. 
In a state 
of unconsciousness | experienced deliriums and visions which 
must have begun when | hung on the edge of death and was 
being given oxygen and camphor injections. The images were 
so tremendous that | myself concluded that | was close to 
death. My nurse afterward told me, ‘‘It was as if you were 
surrounded by a bright glow.”’ That was a phenomenon she 
had sometimes observed in the dying, she added. | had 
reached the outermost limit, and do not know whether | 
was in a dream or an ecstasy. At any rate, extremely 
strange things began to happen to me. 
It seemed to me that | was high up in space. Far below | saw 
the globe of the earth, bathed in a gloriously blue light. | 
saw the deep blue sea and the continents. Far below my feet 
lay Ceylon, and in the distance ahead of me the subcontinent 
of India. My field of vision did not include the whole earth, 
but its global shape was plainly distinguishable and its outlines 
shone with a silvery gleam through that wonderful blue light. 
In many places the globe seemed colored or spotted dark 
green like oxydized silver. Far away-to the left lay a broad 
expanse—— the reddish-yellow desert of Arabia; it was as 
though the silver of the earth had there assumed a reddish- 
gold hue. Then came the Red Sea, and far, far back—— as if 
in the upper left of a map—— | could just make out a bit of 
shall pass into the inner world; out of the greater 
into the smaller world. Small and transitory is man. 
. 
. 
At immeasurable distance standeth one single Star 
in the zenith. 
The book then both is a progress from macrocosm to 
microcosm and is a description of the landscape at various 
stages of that progress. 
It is not clear (does not matter) who is the novice and 
who the initiator in this strange catechism. Not only Jung 
but also the Dead are in transition. They came “back from 
Jerusalem, where they found not what they sought.” 
From his state of transition, Jung sees three concepts to 
which he gives the Gnostic names: Pleroma, Creatura and 
Abraxas. There is also—— man. 
Abraxas is approximately, Shiva, the ultimate Creator- 
Destroyer. The most terrible and most beautiful of all 
the. gods that man contains within his microcosmic self 
and that in turn is contained in the macrocosm. Within 
Abraxas, the more familiar figures (Helios, the Sun; and 
the Devil, darkness) are subsumed. But it is Abraxas that 
gets the poetry. 
It is splendid as a lion in the instant he 
striketh down his victim. 
the Mediterranean. My gaze was directed chiefly toward 
that. Everything else appeared indistinct. | could also see 
the snow-covered Himalayas, but in that direction it was 
foggy or cloudy. | did not look to the right at all. | knew 
that | was on the point of departing from the earth. 
Later | discovered how high in space one would have to be 
to have so extensive a view—— approximately a thousand 
miles! The sight of the earth from this height was the most 
glorious thing | had ever seen. 
People have the idea that the dead know far more than we, 
for Christian doctrine teaches that in the hereafter we 
shall ‘‘see face to face.’’ Apparently, however, the souls of 
the dead ’’know” only what they knew at the moment of 
death, and nothing beyond that. Hence their endeavor to 
penetrate into life in order to share in the knowledge of 
men. | frequently have a feeling that they are standing 
directly behind us, waiting to hear what answer we will give 
to them, and what answer to destiny. It seems to me as if 
they were dependent on the living for receiving answers to 
their questions, that is, on those who have survived them 
and exist in a world of change: as if omniscience or, as | 
might put it, omniconsciousness were not at their disposal 
but could flow only into the psyche of the living, into a 
soul bound to a body. The mind cf the living appears, 
therefore, to hold an advantage over that of the dead in at 
least One point: in the capacity for attaining clear and 
decisive cognitions. As | see it, the three-dimensional world 
in time and space is like a system of co-ordinates; what 
is here separated into ordinates and abscissae may appear 
“there,’’ in space-timelessness, as a primordial image with 
many aspects, perhaps as a diffuse cloud of cognition 
surrounding an archetype. Yet a system of co-ordinates 
is necessary if any distinction of discrete contents 
is to be possible. Any such operation seems to us unthinkable 
in a state of diffuse omniscience, or, as the case may be, 
of subjectless consciousness, with no spatio-temporal 
demarcations. Cognition, like generation, presupposes 
an opposition, a here and there, an above and below, a 
before and after. 
It is beautiful as a day in Spring. 
To look upon it, ts blindness. 
To know it, is sickness. 
To worship it, is death. 
To fear it, is wisdom. 
To resist it not, is redemption. 
All this is within creatura, the realm where differences, dis- 
tinctions, and ideas hold sway. The ground out of which 
creatura looms as figure (in the language of Gestalt theory) 
is pleroma—— the totally unconceived and unstructured 
realm about which nothing can be said or thought because 
to say anything is to create distinction. 
Call it ““void’’ or 
“‘fulness,"’ it is still older and deeper than that first dis- 
tinction by which creature comes into recognition and 
therefore being. 
The book is exasperating, profound and beautiful, 
e 
ON
