As water plunges over the spillway of a high dam, air is 
trapped and carried down with it, deep into the stilling basin 
below. There the pressure of the falling water compresses the 
air, causing abnormal quantities of nitrogen to be dissolved. 
Fish exposed to these excessive levels suffer about the same 
consequences as human divers who rise to the surface too 
rapidly and suffer the crippling or killing affliction known as 
the bends. 
For fish, the results are horrible. Bubbles of free nitrogen 
_ 
appear under the skin and in the fins, tail, and roof of the 
mouth. The eyes protrude or hermorrhage, and’ in extreme 
cases are actually blown out of the head. 
Nitrogen supersaturation in the Columbia and Snake has 
reached a level where it threatens the survival of all fish 
migrating through or living in the water. The system has 
been converted into an ecological minefield. 
Salt Water Tackle Box 
Forty-five page catalog featuring a nice line up of saltwater 
tackle. 
—AP 
Salt Water Tackle Box 
P.O. Box 263 
East Falmouth, MA 02536 
and their imitations are covered and 18 full color plates and 
dozens of black & white illustrations depict some 200 of 
them. Trout are selective feeders under as well as above 
the surface, and a study of Nymphs will enable you to 
imitate nymph activity throughout the seasonal cycle on 
your own streams. Schwiebert gives you the knowledge 
of the overlooked world below the surface where most of 
the fish are caught. 
Fishing the Dry Fly asa Living Insect, Leonard M. 
Wright, Jr., $6.95, E.P. Dutton, Inc. 
The first book to do justice to the caddis flies so commonly 
found on our trout streams. Also a detailed description of 
the author's “sudden inch’’ method of jerking a dry fly 
caddis imitation to attract a strike. 
| have been told these are excellent: 
Flies, J. Edson 
Leonard; Fly Tying, William Baird Sturgis, $8.95, Scribners; 
The Fly and the Fish, John Atherton, Freshet Press. 
m= FLY FISHING EQUIPMENT CATALOGS 
R. L. Winston Rod Company 
475 Third St. 
San Francisco, CA 94107 
(415) 781-3979 
One 
of the great names in American bamboo and glass rods. 
Originator of famous ‘fluted hollow’’ bamboo rods that won 
all Western fly casting tournaments. Winston still produces 
the same quality rods that originally made it famous. 
Very low key catalog and an excellent retail store, staffed by 
the new and old owner, Tom Morgan, an expert West Coast 
angler and Doug Merrick, who has built Winstons for 30 
years and is known as one of the finest bamboo rod craftsmen 
in the world. Winston will make practically any type of rod; 
fresh or salt water, fly, bait casting or spinning. The only 
company | would order a bamboo rod from without flexing 
it first. A-good fly rod lasts a lifetime and is a source of 
endless pleasure. ($65.00 for glass rods and $165 for bamboo). 
Also does excellent repair work on old Payne, Leonard, Orvis 
and Powell bamboo rods. Both Doug and Tom can provide 
you with reliable information on most West Coast streams 
from California to British Columbia. 
Len Codella’s Anglers Den Inc. 
5 South Wood Avenue 
{ 
Post Office Box 701 
Linden, NJ 07036 
Quality trout tackle and fly tying equipment. A good stock 
of Walker trout reels and a grade A natural blue dun capes—— 
Fly-Tying Materials 
Here it is. This is the book you fly-tying buffs have been 
waiting for. It thoroughly covers all the materials needed by 
the fly-tier: the feathers, fur, hooks, synthetic materials, 
departed species and their substitutes and the necessary 
tools. 
That’s not all. There are chapters on dyeing and 
bleaching—— tightly guarded secrets; the skinning and 
cleaning of birds and animals; uncommon uses of na tural 
materials; special sources of supply for fresh and saltwater 
materials—— and much more. 
I/lustrated with many, many 
good how-to photographs, here’s one book that has been 
priced low compared to its information content. 
—AP 
Fly-Tying Materials 
(Their Procurement, Use, 
and Protection) 
Eric Leiser 
1973; 191pp. 
$7.50 postpaid 
from: 
Crown Publishers 
419 Park Ave. South 
New York, NY 10022 
or Whole Earth 
Having located the whereabouts of a chicken farm, you should 
bear in mind only one important consideration, and that is 
when to go. 
If you happen to be reading this book in the 
middle of the summer, | strongly urge you not to bother with 
the chickens at all, because their plumage will leave something 
to be desired. 
In fact, with certain exceptions, most of your 
raw materials in the. form of feathers and furs should come 
from animals during the prime season, which in the Northern 
Hemisphere ranges between late November and early April. 
Angler’s and Shooter’s Bookshelf 
Goshen, CT 06756 
Rare and out of print books. Good fishing books seem to go 
out of print too fast. 
Fair prices and fast service. 
The Orvis Company, Inc. 
Manchester, VT 05254 
(802) 362-1300 
A very ritzy catalog with complete line of essentials and 
non-essentials (whiskey glasses with trout fly emblems) for 
fishermen and outdoorsmen. 
Fun to look through, but a 
bit expensive and frilly. 
Dan Bailey's 
209 West Park St. 
Box 1019 
Livingston, MT 59047 
Reasonably priced flies from the originator of many famous 
western flies. Many tackle stores buy their flies from Dan. 
On the cover of catalog is a remarkable picture of a Royal 
Coachman Dry Fly resting on the surface film. 
Reed Tackle 
Box 390 
Caldwell, NJ 07006 
Materials for fly tying reasonably priced. Also excellent 
fiberglass rod-making kits and all you need to make your own 
fly leaders and spinning lures. 
Three excellent catalogs that feature hunting and fishing 
equipment at discount prices are: 
- Dave Cook's Sporting Goods 
Denver, CO 
(Big discount house) 
Herter’s 
Waseca, MN 
(Excellent for fly tying, also very cheap flies) 
Parker Distributor 
New Rochelle, NY 
(Discounted glass rods and spinning reels 
also binoculars and sunglasses) 
In Canada: 
Harkley & Haywood Sporting 
Vancouver, BC 
(Big catalog, well-stocked retail store, very good 
information on Western Canada fishing. Well worth 
a visit.) 
RETAIL STORES AND FISHERMEN 
A quick list of retail stores and professional fishermen that | 
have known and think worthy going out of your way to visit 
for local information. 
California 
Fresno: 
Herb Bauer Sporting Goods 
Pee 
FISHING 
657 
Fly Fisherman’s Bookcase and Tackle Service 
Strictly for the fly fisherman—— Fenwick rods, Scientific 
Anglers rods and line, Hardy reels, Perrine boxes—— it’s 
all there, plus a select listing of the top books on fly fishing, 
the new and the old. Write for their well-illustrated 56-page 
catalog. 
Sah 
Fly Fisherman’s 
ne“ 
Bookcase and 
Tackle Service 
138 Grand St. 
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 
10520 
A Dubbing 
Needle 
Smaller than the Thompson 
bodkin, fine for delicate work. 
Tooled 
aluminum 
handle. 
Reg. $1.00 Your Price $.80 
E. Hille 
One of the best sources of tackle and fly tying gear for the 
serious fly fishing buff. 
Hille’s 98-page, indexed catalog 
fully explains each item listed, and is particularly descriptive 
of fly tying materials. 
Well rounded inventory, good prices, 
and good service. 
E. Hille 
P.O. Box 269 
Williamsport, PA 17701 
For quill bodies, various materials can be used. Unfortunately 
all of the natural quill body materials are weak. The sharp 
teeth of trout easily cut a strand and ruin the fly. To over- 
come this difficulty, it is recommended to wrap the finished 
fly body in the opposite direction with fine wire, No. 389, 
gold or silver. Additional protection is provided by a coat of 
clear lacquer. Plaston is a very strong quill body material. 
It 
cannot be damaged and needs no protection. 
Quill bodies 
on an artificial fly are the closest imitation of the natural fly 
body. 
San Francisco: 
T.S. Tackle (excellent reel repair shop), 
R.L. Winston 
Dunsmuir: 
Ted Fay, Trout guide and maker of weighted 
wet flies. One of the best wet fly fishermen in the country. 
never fish the upper Sacramento without a visit with Ted 
first. Also Ted is one of the best rough stream waders 
around. 
Visalia: 
Buz’s Fly & Tackle Shop 
Happy Camp: 
Jim Roads (top notch Klamath River 
Steelhead Guide) 
Colorado” 
_ 
Denver: 
Dave Cook Sporting Goods 
Littleton: 
Angler’s All Ltd.—— Proprietor, Jim Poor is an 
artist with midge rods and tiny flies. 
Montana 
Gardiner: 
Parks Fly Shop proprietor is expert fisherman, 
guide and fly tier. Good for information on the Yellowstone 
River, the Firehole and Henry’s Fork of the Snake. 
Livingston: 
Dan Bailey’s Fly Shop—— Proprietor, Dan 
Bailey and staff very informative on Montana streams. 
Every 
year the world’s top fishermen pass through Dan’s shop to 
chat. Dan originated many of the fly patterns in his catalog 
and is still considered a top fly tier and fisherman. 
New Jersey 
Linden: 
Len Codella’s Angler's Den, Inc. 
Morristown: 
Ken Mills Sporting Goods 
Caldwell: 
Reed tackle 
New York 
Livingston Manor: 
Harry Darbee. Good information on 
Beaverkill and Willawemoc Rivers. 
Harry and his wife, 
Elsie are two of the best fly tiers in the country. 
Examples 
of their exquisite work, as well as Dan Bailey's for that matter 
can be found in the color plates of popular fly patterns in 
McClane’s Standard Fishing Encyclopedia. 
Wilmington: 
Adirondack Sport Shop—— Proprietor expert 
tier and fisherman. Good information on the Ausable River. 
Oregon_ 
Idleyld Park: Steamboat Inn. Steelhead information for 
Rogue River. A favorite hangout of steelheaders. 
Lake Oswego: 
The Barbless Hook 
Portland: 
Don's Tackle Shop. Proprietor expert glass rod- 
maker and steelhead guide. Good information on Deschutes 
and other top Oregon Rivers. 
~ 
There are many other good shops and guides in the country. 
Practically every river has one or both. 
It is always a pleasant 
surprise to stumble on one. 
i 
a 
SVUI
WON
