se ‘Buddhism as a tool, maybe the sharpest and kindest tool held 
by Rick Fields 
by us sentient beings, a tool for dismantling, cutting away 
and through, unmasking, demystifying. A tool for tearing 
_ down and transmuting the crazy checkerboard of duality, 
_ 
of Yes-No, .Good-Bad, In-Out. 
A tool, like an alarm-clock, for waking up. 
Buddha, in Sanskrit, means Awake. Maybe we could call 
Buddhism Waking-Up-ism, or how-to-wake. Actually | 
could call it whatever | want, and miss it, utterly, entirely 
miss it. It is not something you can call. 
When Shakyamuni (Buddha) saw the morning star and was 
enlightened. he said, ‘! was enlightened instantaneously with 
the universe.’ "” 
What, my father, my mother, and many other people, want to 
know, does this have to do with us; two thousand five hundred 
years later—— we have the same problems. Suffering, birth, 
death, old age, sickness, sorrow. 
No matter how fast and 
intricately our machines move, we are still human. The use 
of Buddhism doesn’t seem to be how to escape, how to become 
God-ized out of our humaness. It is more like something 
Geshe Wangyal, an old Lama with a face like beaten gold, 
who lives out in suburban New Jersey, t 
told me: 
‘Face it. 
Don't run. Turn around and face it.’’ 
Obvious enough, in 
one sense. 
But in things ‘‘spiritual’’ it seems we are always 
looking for the way out, the melt, the union, the higher. . 
. 
Like the man who discovered gravity, Shakyamuni Buddha 
‘got to work under a tree. What he discovered was as real as 
gravity. 
In fact, he touched his hand to the earth as witness. 
As solid earthy fact. What he found, after years of study 
with the most efficient ascetics, yogis and philosophers of 
his time, was that he had to work by himself, on his own 
mind. 
His own mind was the working basis. So he sat, 
folded his legs, folded his hands, and sat some more. 
As 
Chogyam Trungpa, Rinpoche said, meditation is manual labor. 
_ Two thousand five hundred years ago Buddhism began in 
India and then migrated to China, Southeast Asia, Korea, 
Japan, Tibet, Sikkim, Bhutan, Mongolia. Within each 
country schools developed, each with their special taste 
and flavor. Today, almost all the schools are represented 
in North America. It is a unique situation. After centuries 
of separate developing in the hothouses of various cuitures 
all the schools seem destined to try to put down roots in 
rocky, concrete soil of America. 
What is emerging is a Western Buddhism, which because of 
the difficulty of the soil it is growing in will be that much 
stronger and vigorous. But it doesn’t seem to me that the 
direction ought to be ecumenical, in that timehonored 
american tradition of making everything into one big cosmic 
stew. Rather, we need each school, undergoing the changes 
it must to survive in this new home. 
If Buddhism is a tool meditation is the cutting edge, double- 
edged. 
It is not in its moral teaching that Buddhism has 
something special, but in the method 
of realization, of 
meditation. Buddhist meditation, in its most basic and 
- common form, does not depend on either an external object 
or higher power. 
It is not mental gymnastics. Sitting and 
Paying attention to what is there, to the mind—— if mind 
is there. Often the breath, one’s own breath, serves as a kind 
of a path, sword, or reminder, something to come back to. 
This is the central power of Buddhism. Without practicing 
sitting all our spiritual talk is like the squawking of hungry 
crows. 
‘ 
‘ 
Regularity of sitting matters. One little trick I’ve used is to 
try and sit everyday, even if only for five minutes, even if 
only for a few seconds. 
It almost always turns out longer, 
of course, but it is a neat way around the mind’s idea that 
“there isn't enough time now.” 
The tool of sitting is best used with some periods of longer 
Practice than would at first seem to make any sense at all. 
Many centers provide a chance to experience long hours, 
even days, of sitting. (Usually broken by walking-meditation, 
work, meals, tea.) 
In Zen Buddhism a week-long period 
is 
called a Sesshin (mind-gathering). 
It is a case of quantity 
changing quality, of hours passing like waves through 
successive layers of mind. At many centers it is not 
necessary to be a “‘*member”’ to take part in these intensive 
meditation periods. Use them to provide the discipline, 
bells, atmosphere, telephoneless quiet so hard for many of 
us to find at home. In Zendos (Zen meditation halls) there 
is often some chanting, and a style, which to a newcomer, 
‘might seem rigid. All that order, however, frees you to 
look right into the chaos. Another good place to experience 
an all-day sitting is at one of the Dharmadatu centers (see 
below), inspired by Trungpa Rinpoche. The style is less 
formal than Zen, while following the same basic pattern of 
sitting and walking. 
Rinzai Zen uses koan practices, in which the interview 
(sanzen) with the teacher plays an important part. Rinzai 
tends to demand a heavy commitment and training before 
you get to the koan. One exception to this is the Zen Master, 
Joshu Sasaki Roshi, who uses beginning koans especially 
adapted for Westerners. 
He seems to love to travel and holds 
-Sesshins at various places around the country. (See 
Srake ‘Cimarron Zen Center, below. 
Another form of intensive meditation practice is the retreat. 
The idea here is awesome. You just disappear. 
Either an 
apartment, a cabin, tent, cave or mountaintop are favorite 
spots. Cut off from entertainment and occupations you 
are back at the beginning. There is only one person now, 
and one mind, which has a way of filling all of space. 
If you don’t have extensive experience of meditation it’s 
probably good to settle for no more thana week. Any 
— 
longer and you need a support system, either someone to 
bring you supplies or a nearby, but not too near, place 
where you can pick them up. Tail of the Tiger, a meditation 
community in Vermont, provides you with cabin, stove, 
wood, and food for thirty-five dollars a week. They have 
a policy of being open to everybody; the only problem is 
that they are booked months in advance. 
If anyone knows 
of any other places with retreat facilities open to the public, 
write the Epilog. 
It could be a good way for a together 
commune to Provide a needed service and make a little 
income. 
It's good to remember in these meditation practices that 
body and mind become magnified. That’s easy to forget 
when you've been on retreat for two weeks; so it might be 
a good idea to have someone who is relatively calm and 
clear stop by to see how you're doing, and remind you that 
you are seeing things through a high-powered microscope. 
Which brings us to the teacher, guru, roshi, master. Many of 
us came to Buddhism in the first place because it taught a 
spiritual path which relied on no-one and nothing. Buddha’s 
last words were, after all, “Everything that is conditioned 
Passes. 
Be your own light.’’ But now we find that the 
schools which have come West are brought here by human 
beings. Buddhism has always been passed along, transmitted, 
by one human being to another. Many of my friends find 
it hard to see this; as if it is somehow impure. The two 
poles of reaction are that it should come from 1) the gods, 
God, or higher forces; or, 2) be found purely by ourselves, 
with no outside help whatsoever. But for me the very human- 
ness of Buddhism is that it depends on specific people who 
each have their own style. This is one of the things that gives 
Buddhism its salty quality. It’s one thing to read all those 
books and to space out in your own meditation—— somehow 
it’s when you run into another human being that you are 
shaken, grounded out of your subjective sky, and the whole 
process becomes more real. 
It is not a matter of saying you've got to have a teacher; but 
of saying that teachers do exist; and can be used. That 
many people are put off by the idea of a teacher in a process 
so intimate as spiritual journey is one reason America could 
be considered a healthy soil for these teachings. Be as 
cynical, careful, wary as a fox. This said, it can also be 
noted that a true teacher is an extremely accurate tool for 
seeing yourself. A teacher acts as a mirror, but a special 
mirror, a 360 degree mirror, which might reflect your 
image back calmly, but which also might fling it back in 
your face. Rather than a towering demigod whose very 
touch blisses you out, a teacher is seen, first, as a rather 
stern hard-assed disciplinarian or even as a psychic martial 
arts instructor. A teacher could also be someone with 
whom you can just talk over or check out your 
meditation experience. 
But one aspect of Buddhism that sticks is that it is an 
oral teaching, which is not the same as written, and 
somewhere along the line there must be someone doing 
the speaking. 
In Tibet if there is no living being to carry 
along the understanding of a school the texts go upon 
a shelf and gather dust. 
: 
si 
Nearly all centers spring from the energy of a particular 
teacher, but many of them (though not all) may be used 
without having to say that this is the one. Meditation 
halls have been called furnaces to burn away delusions, as 
well as spacious meadows. They are there to be used. The 
real meditation hall is, of course, the one you carry with 
you as your own awareness. 
Having been mad enough to write all this, | feel that | 
Owe it to myself and anyone who has read this far to 
point out that the Dharma and the Teaching of it, is as 
vast as limitless space. Buddhism may be a tool, but it 
is a tool which can disappear in your hand, as if it had 
suddenly turned into the lion’s roar of the whole universe. 
What We Have/What We Need 
The literature on Buddhism has been building for a couple 
of thousand years. What is given here is a list of books and 
journals based on centers which are active in North . 
America. The list is representative rather than complete. 
| have emphasized books by contemporary teachers. 
I'd like this section of the Epilog to become the seed of 
an on-going Journal of American Buddhism. We would 
like to hear from people with a direct knowledge of 
different centers, teachers, and special events, such as 
Sesshins, intensive meditation periods, seminars. There 
is also a growing need for information on retreat facilities. 
(I've long been looking for an hour glass to time 
“information on the problems of studying and tr: velit 
~ ordination in Ceylon, is Director. Classes in Vipassana 
_ 331 W. 20th Street, New York, N.Y. 10011. 
Practical Insight Meditation by Mahasi Sayac 
helps you in your practice. Seba zafus, 
bells, butter lamps, images, silkscreens. Many 
are trying to support their practice by crafts 
“cottage industries’; 
a directory of who is makin 
Also, what good recordings of Buddhist mu 
chanting are around. 
Films and tapes. We coul 
als 
to Japan, India, Southeast Asia. Whatever, in sho: 
feel should be part of an active anthology in whi 
all hold a share. The Epilog will pay $10 for 
sist hee 
reviews. 
The Listings are broken down into three paige 
d 
which follow the three main Buddhist Traditions, 
Theravadin (sometimes called Hinayana), Mahayan 
Vajrayana (sometimes called Tantrayana). The 
Thi 
School ("The School of the Elders’’) is the earlie 
based on the Pali Canon of Scriptures. 
It now su 
chiefly in Burma, Ceylon, and Thailand. Mahayana is - 
the Northern School, a later development based on th 
school of Tibetan Buddhism. 
THERAVADIN CENTERS 
Washington Vihara 
ss 
5017-16th St., N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20011 
(202) 723-0773 
: 
The Ven. D. Piyananda Maha Thera, President. Th Vi h 
open daily; there is a Sunday service. There are fo 
meditation classes a week. Publication: The Wheel, 
translations of Pali texts, articles by Nyanaponik 
Soma Thera, Conze, many practical articles relati 
a modern Buddhism. Single Numbers 25 cents, 
Numbers 50 cents; also publish Bodhi Leaves, a par 
series. The Vihara Book Service, same address as abi 
has a useful catalogue and carries over two nung 2d 
titles on Buddhism. 
; 
Stillpoint Institutes 
: 
604 South 15th St. 
@ 
San Jose, CA 95112 
‘at 
The Ven. Anagarika Sujata, who has received full n ‘mon 
“insight’’ meditation. The Society holds a one-mo 
meditation retreat. 
Book: Beginning to See by Anagarika Siete. 
Vipassana Centre 
c/o The Limes, Douglas Avenue, 
Hyth, Kent, England 
V.R. Dhiravamsa, the Director and Meditation 
Centre, visits this country quite often. I’ve he d 
retreats at various places. He was iets knew r 
Khun Sobhana Dhammasudhi. His books are amo} 
4 
best on Vipassana meditation. 
Books: Beneficial Factors for Meditation, an el 
guide to Vipassana Meditation, preferably ey 
Awakening by Chao Khun Sobhana | Dhammasud 
i 
Approach to Buddhism by V.R. Dhiravamsa, $1.50. 
we talk of ‘the way of awareness’ we do not mea 
awareness is one thing and the way is another, or 
itself is the doing, the Practice, the action 
c 
technique for being aware.’ 
Pa, 
Order from the above address, or from: Dhar 
Other books: 
; 
The Heart of Buddhist Meditation by Nyapanik 
A basic introduction to the ‘‘Way of Mindfuln 
translation of the Maha-Sattipatthana-Sutta. 
Weiser, 734 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 1000. 
The Satipatthana Vipassana Meditation by Ma 
$1.75. ‘This manuscript arrived with a frien 
beautifully edited and designed. 
extension and advanced study. 
Both the above from: Unity hier PO Box 4 
Francisco, Ca. 94126. | 
: 
