‘0 get the reader-response cycle going Baan 
I-scale pee could be done by the end 
appened very quickly. On return to San 
; 
/ was ready to go on the Sausalito ferry 
sign “Secretary Wanted—— Interview here”, 
jana Shugart (now Diana Barich) indicated she 
v as ip for work. We sniffed around Sausalito for an 
ere shown (by Diana Fairbanks and David 
Diana 
0 ssful public event you can read about in the 
er ‘74 CoEvolution Quarterly. We hired Pam 
f lear Creek magazine, to correspond with 
ource listed in The Last Whole Earth Catalog 
oath 
ae g his legal career. We glommed him to be 
ging Editor, whatever that might mean (it turned 
to 
mean a superb job of getting distribution for 
Q—- the obstacle that defeats most new 
als). When research traffic threatened to 
helm Diana, she and Pam hired Andrea Sharp, 
ne of those work demons that makes everyone 
work 
possible. 
uary we slid into production on the Harper’s 
around” with the return of Steamboat from 
do paste-up and drawings. “EDITOR 
OM ISE,”" we began. 
explaretion is owed. In May 1971 we 
ed making Whole Earth Catalogs forever 
enough on the expectation that someone 
kly come along and fill the niche better 
5,000 copies a week with increasingly outdated 
information; 
3) The North American economy began to lose 
its mind, putting more people in need of tools 
for independence and the economy as a whole 
in need of greater local resilience; and 
4) After burning our bridges we reported before 
the Throne to announce, ‘’We're here for our 
next terrific idea.’’ The Throne said, ‘’That Was 
ltef" 
/n retrospect Harper’s was not the best place for us. 
Their audience was unresponsive, their editor-in-chief 
didn’t like our birth photographs or our presumption. 
Still, as Andrew said, it was a good shakedown cruise. 
newhole Earth Ce 
Supplement oe 
The CoEvolution Quarterly got its name /ate in the 
game. | had been wanting to call it “The Never Piss 
Against the Wind Newsletter”, or perhaps “Making 
Circuit’. 
| did have a formula in mind: we would 
print long technical pieces on whatever interested 
us—— the opposite of the predigested pap in, say, 
Intellectual Digest. So the Spring CQ had Paul 
Ehrlich on Co-evolution, Roy Rappaport and 
Howard Odum on energy and culture, Sam Keen on 
spiritual tyranny, and a nice reception from readers. 
March was showdown time on distribution for the 
EPILOG. Random House had done a good job on 
the Whole Earth Catalog, with one $90,000 dispute 
about contract interpretation—— the difference got 
split. (One nice war story: when a shoddy “New 
Earth Catalog’ was advertised by its publisher Putnam 
as the successor to The Whole Earth Catalog, Random’s 
head-man Jim Silberman asked what should we do 
about it. | suggested that he tell Putnam that | might 
go berserk and remove all Putnam books from the next 
printing of the Catalog. A few weeks later Putnam 
ran an ad in Publisher’s Weekly apologizing for the 
previous ad.) All very well, but | didn’t want to be 
wedded to Random (definite non-marital trend here). 
Laura Besserman and Don Burns (from the original 
Catalog distribution with Book People) knew what 
was up and prevailed on their employer Penguin 
Books to make a solid offer. Accordingly we sat 
down with Don Burns and Don Passer in March to 
hear details. And the following day Random House 
was invited to reply. The negotiations and the 
eventual contract are reported in full in the Summer 
‘74 CQ. What it came down to was an offer of 
$1.75 per $4 EPILOG going to POINT 
from Penguin, 
and a $1.66 offer from Random. Random had fifty 
salesmen and lots of experience with bestsellers and 
with us. Penguin had eight salesmen. 
Finally | 
phoned Don Burns, “Random is a sure thing. Penguin 
isn’t. We'll try Penguin.” 
So far I’m not sorry. 
We hurried into the Summer CQ in order to clear decks 
for the EPILOG production. We had printed 5,000 
copies of the 96-page Spring CQ and sold them all. The 
goddam Summer CQ filled 176 pages, sold out 10,000 
copies immediately; Andrew had another 7,000 
printed. While that production was in process | was 
hiring—— Al Perrin for art director, Susan Roth, 
q 
May 
bar We ee. 
sary, 
sien hate pay 
a 
Lee 
Sete: 
"BUSINESS 
BF se Ma 
CRBS BENNO 
W ee 
Steve Leaper, and Katherine Borsody on paste-up. 
Evelyn Eldridge (she was Evelyn Goslow when she 
typed the Last Catalog) replaced Joe Bacon on 
composer. 
Triple-threat Andrew Main (camera, 
paste-up, and composer) invited himself aboard. 
Reddy North, looking just like Carol Channing, 
took on the index. 
Fully crewed, we went from CQ production straight 
into the EPILOG—— 320 perfect pages in eight 
weeks or die trying. Our luck was in. An adjoining 
spacious storeroom came available for expanded 
workspace. No one tore down our condemned pler. 
The sieve roof never rained on us too seriously. No 
one got sick. J. Baldwin showed up with Kathleen 
to relieve me of the Soft Technology section. Diana 
took over Community. 
Doris took half of Learning. 
All the section editors came through with the goods 
on time. Everything | jobbed out—— Video, Black 
Interest, Electronic Music, China—— exceeded 
expectations. 
From here, it’s smooth. God knows 
what it looks like from where youre sitting. 
“When men remember war they shall remember mud.” 
When we remember this production we shall 
remember a parrot named Lolita who lived just out- 
side the unclosable window shrieking incessantly, 
“Lo-LEE-ta! Lo-LEEEE-ta! Hello! Hello! 
Hello-hello-hello-hello-HELLO-HELLO! AAAAAKKK! 
Polly wanna CRACKER?” 
A year of continuous production. 
|’m going to lay off 
for a couple months. 
The Fall CQ’s in good hands 
Lolita 
with the Black Panthers. 
Everyone here is taking 
off but a skeleton crew until Winter, the Winter 
Quarterly, and whatever response the EP/LOG stirs 
up. And events. 
| see they’re hoping that President 
Ford’s administration will be a time of “Peace and 
Quiet.” I’m afraid that events, not necessarily Ford, 
will make those words ring as hollow as “Law ‘n 
Order” did under what’s-his-name. 
/n our researches on the likely economic apocalypse 
it’s become clear what is the prime survival too! for 
hard times: friends. Good friends. 
Lots of them. 
We ended the Catalog with Kenneth Patchen’s coda, 
“Pause. And begin again.” 
Said the racooon, “Paws, and begin again.” 
(There’s poor old Hamlet, see, clutching his 
poisoned wound. 
“The rest is silence,” he says, and 
‘quivers his last. Horatio and Fortinbras weep, 
the curtain closes; the audience applauds. “‘Hamlet” 
gets up, takes his bows, and goes out for a late dinner. 
Same thing tomorrow night. | guess that’s what 
else the rest is besides silence.) 
—SB 12 Aug 74 
