) e death, one man accepting 
: 
secon versation was recorded in 1968 at a conference 
organized by Gregory Bateson on “The Effects of Conscious 
irpose on Human Adaptation.” It may be found in the 
arkable book by Gregory’s daughter, Mary Catherine 
Bateson, Our Own Metaphor, 1972, Knopf. “Warren” 
in this conversation is Warren McCulloch, one of the primes 
aha in the foundation of cybernetics—— a wholly indivisible 
man (have a look at his book Embodiments of Mind, Pg. 316). 
He died a few months later. Others speaking are mathema- 
tician Anatol Holt (first voice) and Gregory. 
The Gordon 
mentioned is British cyberneticist Gordon Pask. 
—SB 
_ 
All of you will probably remember the disaster that took 
_ place in Florence with the floods and the great damage 
that was done to those stored artworks. 
| had very mixed 
feelings about it. | thought, from a certain point of view, 
that it could well be regarded as good rather than bad; 
that is—— yes, it’s an occasion for mourning, but on the 
other hand, it also makes room. You know, there can be 
only so many masterpieces in the world, quite apart from 
the physical space in which they‘re stored, and new master- 
pieces must be produced, ones whose relations to your old 
‘masterpieces are perhaps hard to understand.” 
Gregory lifted up the blackboard eraser. ‘“You can’t live 
without this.” 
“Yes, that’s right.’’ 
“Which is death." 
“That's right. You know, the Hapsburgs, for example, 
accumulated their bodies in a crypt in order at a certain 
level to insure the continuity of them. You might argue 
it was a sort of primitive way of doing it. Given Gordon's 
idea and given that everyone would see his individuality 
that way, there would be better and cleverer ways of 
doing it. | don't see my own progeny as the perpetuation 
of me, at least | don’t believe | do.” 
“| wouldn't swear to that,’’ Gregory muttered. 
“! won't swear, but | have to speak what | think anyway. 
| see it as connected with me, but | see it as a step in my 
own death and | see what comes out of it as something 
really different. 
| think I’m being altogether honest when 
| say, profound as is my personal commitment to 
occurrence systems, let us say, | recognize that they must 
die. They should not survive forever, even if you relativize 
_ 
forever to some sort of practical forever, like as long as our 
earth rotates around the sun. They too must make way for 
something else. 
“There are perhaps several different directions philosophi- 
cally in which one could go. One could become more 
sophisticated in the way Gordon suggests, about what it 
means for me to continue, so that | don’t build vaults any 
more, or pyramids. 
But perhaps there is a way of under- 
standing life as in its nature transitory, just as in my theory 
an arrow is the pairing of a beginning and an end. And 
since | have the floor, | just want to add one more remark. 
This is not absolutely in line with what we’re now saying, 
but | was brought to think a little bit, while Gordon was 
talking, about my comment of yesterday about people’s 
Passion for cosmic certainty. They are not satisfied with 
evincing cosmic certainty. They have to have it!”’ 
Western Attitudes Toward Death 
This comforting insightful little study investigates 
our “progress” from the thoughtful death of old 
(13th Century and before) to the modern horror 
of dying. Humans through most of time died with 
ritual grace. 
—SB 
Western Attitudes 
Toward Death 
Philippe Aries 
1974; 111pp. 
$6.50 postpaid 
from: 
Johns Hopkins 
University Press 
Baltimore, MD 21218 
or Whole Earth 
It was essential that parents, friends, and neighbors be 
present. Children were brought in; until the eighteenth 
century no portrayal of a deathbed scene failed to 
include children. 
. .. he remembered how the old folk used to die back homé 
on the Kama—— Russians, Tartars, Votyaks, or whatever 
they were. They didn’t puff themselves up or fight against 
it and brag that they weren't going to die—— they took 
death calmly [author's italics]. They didn’t stall squaring 
things away, they prepared themselves quietly and in good 
time, deciding who should have the mare, who the foal. . 
. 
And they departed easily, as if they were just moving 
into a new house. 
—A. Solzhenitsyn 
Embodiments of Mind 
We laughed. Gregory leaned forward. “May | makea 
_ 
Personal remark, Tolly?’’ he said. 
‘‘I think, of all the 
people that | know, you are the most reproductive in the 
particular sense that Pask is talking about. Right at the 
core of your love, not only for your children, but also for 
other people, is the desire to transmit... 
you been doing around here, teaching us your games?"’. 
“No doubt. Absolutely no doubt. 
| mean, that's biology. 
That's perfectly true.” 
“Love in your life means the transmission of programs.’ 
“| want in Gregory,” said Warren. 
“All right.” 
Warren was speaking very slowly. ‘| am by nature a warrior 
and wars don’t make any sense anymore. 
| ama 
king, but 
I'm an anarchist, and in my country, there are simply no 
laws, not even this one. 
| went to work modeling the 
structure of water in tendon. We went out and bought a 
bunch of jellybeans and toothpicks and modeled the water. 
And then | found that | had to write on the blackboard, 
‘The jellybeans are not to be eaten,’ and it wasn’t until 
then that | understood why the Pythagorians had a law 
against eating beans. Now, the difficulty is that we, who are 
not single-cell organisms, cannot simply divide and pass on 
our programs. We have to couple and there is behind this a 
second requirement.’’ Warren began to weep. ‘We learn... 
that there’s a utility in death because. 
. 
. the world goes on 
changing and we can’t keep up with it. If | have any 
disciples, you can say this of every one of them, they think 
for themselves."’ 
Very softly Gregory said, ‘Sure, Warren.” 
‘‘Freedom from and freedom for.” We sat in silence for a 
long pause. “’Coffee?” said Warren. 
This eloquent decor of death toppled in our day, and 
death has become unnamable. 
Everything henceforth 
goes on as if neither | nor those who are dear to me are 
any longer mortal. Technically, we admit that we might 
die; we take out insurance on our lives to protect our 
families from poverty. But really, at heart we feel we are 
non-mortals. And surprise! Our life is not asa result — 
co 
gladdened! 
\ls there a permanent relationship between one’s idea of 
death and one’s idea of oneself? 
If this is the case, must 
we take for granted, on the one hand, contemporary 
man’s recoil from the desire to exist, the inverse of what 
occurred during the second Middle Ages, the thirteenth 
to fifteenth centuries? And, on the other hand, must we 
take for granted that it is impossible for our technological 
cultures ever to regain the naive confidence in Destiny 
which had for so long been shown by simple men when 
dying? 
Programs. What have 
Questions & Answers on Death and Dying 
A sequel to On Death & Dying (Pg. 223). 
Ms. Kubler-Ross answers the questions most 
frequently asked about how to relate to the dying. 
Very personal, intended for professionals & families 
rather than “the patient.” Her answers always retur 
to honesty and dignity and personal choice. 
—DB 
Questions & Answers 
on Death and Dying 
- 
Elisabeth Kubler-Ross 
1974; 177pp. 
$1 .50 acted 
from: 
Collier Books 
Macmillan Pub. Co., Inc 
Order Dept. 
Front & Brown Sts. 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth 
Should suicide be everyone’s right? If so, what limitations 
or parameters should there be as to the time and place and 
means? 
| don’t think we should advertise suicide as being everyone 
right. There was a time in the history of France when 
suicide was regarded as the norm. There were certain 
“health stations’’ where poison was obtainable by people 
who wanted to commit suicide. 
| don’t believe in mercy 
killing or in public facilitation of suicide. 
| think our role 
should always be to prolong a meaningful, functioning 
life and people should get all the help available in order to 
live meaningfully and spend their time and energy to live 
and not to contemplate suicide. 
If a terminally ill patient 
who is “beyond medical help’’ contemplates suicide by 
simply stopping the intake of medication or refuses additic 
medical help, | think he has a right to do so. 
| am fully 
aware that this includes my own judgment and my own 
differentiation between a patient's right to die his own 
death, to prevent an additional artificial prolongation of 
Last Rights, A Case for the Good Death 
A classic apologia both for euthanasia and for a less 
isolated way of treating the elderly and the ill. All 
the reasons why we (“society”) should reform our 
attitudes & laws; very little about the personal and 
social weaknesses that have created them. 
Last Rights 
(A Case for 
The Good Death) 
Marya Mannes 
1974; 150pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
William Morrow & Co., In 
Wilmor Warehouse 
6 Henderson Dr. 
West Caldwell, NJ 07006 
or Whole Earth 
Incidentally, a patient’s pain often decreases when he is 
finally told the truth of his disease and its seriousness. 
Ab' 
fifty percent of doctors tell their patients 
all. An equal 
percentage doesn’t. 
During the terminal phase, a good percentage of patients s 
‘| want to go.’ But they may just be testing what the nurs¢ 
Proposals for Legislative Reforms Aiding th 
Consumer of Funeral Industry Products 
and Services 
An enormous amount of information about the 
funeral industry; and the legal problems and poten! 
solutions involved in re-establishing burial as a 
simple, inexpensive, community ritual. 
(See also 
A Manual of Simple Burial, Pg. 223). 
- 
—DB 
Sig 
A major reason for high costs is the poor bargaining posit' 
of the prospective purchaser of funeral industry products 
and services. 
Lack of experience with the consumer/funer 
industry transaction and with the business methods of 
industry members is a factor in reducing bargaining effect! 
ness. 
But probably more important than this is the shock 
caused by the event initiating consumption of funeral 
industry products and services: 
the death of a spouse, par 
or child, a close friend or relative. The emotional state of 
