SJBNEIIMEIR 
O22 
The Traditional Crafts of Persia 
A scholarly, detailed account by a man who studied 
the crafts of Persia in the early 1940's. Metal and 
wood working, building, textiles, leather work and 
agriculture. Much of the information could be 
useful in a similar climate. There are some impressive 
oriental type windmills that turn vertically, good 
information and ideas on plastering. Also historical 
development of the various techniques and their 
influence on eastern and western civilizations. 
CRAFT 
—LK 
The Traditional Crafts 
of Persia 
Hans E. Wulff 
1966; 405pp. 
$7.95 postpaid 
from: 
MIT Press 
28 Carleton Street 
Cambridge, MA 02142 
or Whole Earth 
To this day no drawings are prepared for the building 
(bina kardan) of an ordinary house. The common practice 
is that owner and builder “draw” the plan (naqseh piyadeh) 
on the actual site by marking the walls with powdered lime 
(ahak) or gypsum (gac). Common laborers (hammal) dig 
(kandan) the trenches (saldeh, saludeh) for the foundation 
(pai), about 18 inches deep and slightly wider than the 
planned thickness of the wall. Whatever earth (hak) is dug 
out is carefully gathered at a spot where it is mixed 
(mahlut) with burnt lime (ahak) and water into a soft paste 
(sefteh, sefteh, boto, batal). A \ayer of about 6 inches of 
this paste is placed (rihtan) in the trench and coarse stone 
ballast is thrown (zadan) into it. These stones (sang) have 
been brought by donkeys from the nearest quarry (ma dan e 
sang, kan-e sang). They are about 6 to 8 inches in size. With 
one layer (cineh) of stones in the trench a second layer of 
mud paste is worked over the stones, ballast follows, and 
this is repeated until the trench is filled. Within three to 
Nomadic Furniture 
If you move your dwelling-stuff more than once 
every four years, this lightweight book can save you 
the aggravation of feeling so stupid while wrestling 
that heavy bed (couch, table, chair, bookshelf) down 
that narrow stairway to that overloaded car. 
Nomadic Furniture 2 expands into hi-fi equipment, 
darkroom design, lights, furniture and play equipment 
for kids, room dividers, etc. Now if the publisher will 
reduce these two somewhat foamy books into one 
dense smaller one. 
. 
. 
—SB 
AWO-LEVEL FN S#hice (CONVEtION): 
ENISTING CEILING ¢WAKA 
SELONY SLEEPING ARCA ot 
Flay HOUKE fos 
CHILPREN (foun Pap) 
CANWAS BACK: REST, 
 FeoMiPoL 
INE 4 
PROJECTION S¢REEN 
FoR LOWER AREA 
Figure 402A Sistn Windmill (section) 
four weeks these foundations have sufficiently set to begin 
building the walls. In due course the lime-mud-stone 
mixture becomes as hard as rock, as the writer had an 
opportunity to experience when building a technical college 
at Siraz over the foundations of a caravanserai erected by 
Karim Han-e Zand in 1760 A.D. 
Nomadic Furniture 
James Hennessey & 
Victor Papanek 
1973; 149pp. 
$4.95 postpaid 
James Hennessey & 
Victor Papanek 
1974; 149pp. 
$4.95 postpaid 
both from: 
Random House, Inc. 
457 Hahn Rd. 
or Whole Earth 
Ze beet bel fing 
{"g Powets 
AMESE 
S175 MAY BE HAN 
0 Suit 
Your pede 2 
‘ 
A 
Fe0M maak Sfoot for} 
At’ {ABLE 1075. 
bias (AE-AACr ‘OAL: 
Nomadic Furniture 2 
Westminster, MD 21157 
Craftsmen of Necessity 
:
To gather this material, Christopher and Charlotte 
Williams travelled 40,000 miles in a VW van through; 
Europe, North Africa, Egypt, Syria, Turkey and 
Finland. They visited rural areas, established 
rapport with local residents, then studied and 
photographed indigenous crafts and remaining 
craftsmen. Photos are excellent (some reminiscent 
of Architecture Without Architects /Pg. 84]), comme 
tary is perceptive without being pompous, and what 
shown is inspiring for any craftsman or hand-workin| 
home builder. Might Americans ever of necessity 
become craftsmen? 
Craftsmen of Necessity 
Christopher & Charlotte 
Williams 
1974; 182pp. 
$3.95 Postpaid 
from: 
Random House, Inc. 
457 Hahn Rd. 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Another kind of self-regulation comes from the form used 
and the limits of size. Most of rural Egypt is spotted with 
large pigeon cotes. Pigeons provide both fertilizer and food 
Each of the hundred-odd holes in the tower, which extend !
through the structure, provides an ingenious brooding nest 
which accommodates precisely enough young to maintain |
the rookery. The unfortunate extras, usually the smaller 
«
ones, fall inside the tower, to the bottom. All that the ownt 
has to do is enter the base of the tower and pick up his 
daily harvest of squab. Because it is self-regulating and self-t
maintaining, the cote tends to support a larger, healthier 
¢
stock. 
Irish Folk Ways 
Irish crafts: house building, thatching, rockwork, 
wagons, turf cutting: Chapters on festivals, weddin 
and wakes. Ireland, where summer’s end is referred 
to by a mountain farmer as “... a time when the 
su 
dew is thinkin’ 
of fallin’ 
”. 
—LK 
2 estyn 
evans 
| — Irish Folk Ways 
=n 
‘ 
E. Estyn Evans 
1957; 324pp. 
$5.95 plus postage 
from: 
Routledge & Kegan 
Paul Ltd. 
9 Park St. 
Boston, MA 02108 
or Whole Earth 
The erection of such simple houses as | have described did 
not call for the services of specialists. When the need aros! 
the collective skills of a whole community were available, 
and one can readily see how prescribed methods were han 
down in any particular area. ‘The custom on such occasi0 
wrote Lord George Hill—— is he speaking of Donegal in t/ 
years before the Great Famine—— ‘is for the person who | 
the work to be done to hire a fiddler, upon which all the 
neighbours joyously assemble and carry, in an incredibly 
short time, the stones and timber upon their backs to the 
site, men, women and children alternately dancing and 
singing while the daylight lasts, when they adjourn to som 
dwelling where they finish the night, often prolonging the 
dance to dawn of day.’ Like all work done in common, t! 
thatching too was regarded as a sort of festival. 
In the Ar 
Islands ‘from the moment a roof is taken in hand there is! 
whirl of laughter and talk til it is ended, and, as the man 
whose house is being covered is a host instead of an 
employer, he lays himself out to please the men who wor' 
with him.’ Synge goes on to remark that much of the 
intelligence and charm of the islanders is due to the absen’ 
of a division of labour and to the wide development of e2! 
individual. Truly it may be said that with the disappeara" 
of the thatched house something more than a picturesqu? 
archaism passes from the land. 
| 
