werd 
as 
meee 
4 
if 
The New Alchemy Institute 
_ Famous for their work in backyard aquaculture at 
Cape Cod, the Alkies are far the most biological 
of these research groups. Headed by John Todd, they 
are ecologically sophisticated scientists committed to 
fostering self-sufficient local systems. What you may 
buy from them is participation in their research network 
($25/year) which includes a subscription to The Journal 
of the New Alchemists. (See Pg. 540, 538, 537, 488, 
and 474). 
- 
" 
—SB 
The New Alchemy Institute 
Box 432 
Woods Hole, MA 02543 
THE ARK: ASOLAR-HEATED AND WIND-POWERED 
GREENHOUSE AND AQUACULTURE COMPLEX 
ADAPTED TO NORTHERN CLIMATES. 
The complex includes a sunken greenhouse, an attached 
aquaculture pond, a solar water heater and a diversity of 
light and heat conservation and distribution components. 
It is an integrated, self-regulating system requiring the 
sun, power for water circulation, waste materials and 
labor to sustain its productivity. The electricity to drive 
the circulation pump will ultimately be provided by a 
6 kilowatt windmill. The heat storage—— climate 
regulation component is a 13,500 gallon aquaculture pond. 
Solar heat is trapped directly by the covered pond and by 
water circulating through a solar heater. The attached 
greenhouse is built below the frost line and derives its 
heat from the earth, direct sunlight and from the warmed 
pond water passing through pipes in the growing beds 
within the structure. 
Details are provided in the second 
Journal of The New Alchemists. 
The intensive fish farming component is comparable to those 
already pioneered by the Institute. Several crops of Tilapia 
fish will be cultured throughout the warm months on foods 
raised within the structure. A single crop of trout and 
perch will be raised during the cooler seasons. 
It is our hope 
that the aquaculture component will be productive enough 
to underwrite construction and maintenance costs and 
that the greenhouse component will provide abundant 
marketable vegetables and greens. 
egrated Living Systems 
headed by Bob Reines, is a mountain laboratory complex 
domes, wind generators, and solar collectors operating in 
nplete energy isolation. 
The effort is to develop a total 
rgy-living kit for mass use 
by autonomous communities. 
ults so far are impressive. (See aiso Pg. 526) No product 
publication yet. 
; 
we! 
b 
Boe Reines, J. Baldwin, and Phil Nelson in ILS windpowered 
shop. 
The ILS Prototype | system uses 20% of the electrical 
energy and 10% of the thermal energy required in an 
average house. 
It is important to mention that all of 
the electricity, hot water and space heating are provided 
by the sun and the wind with no back up. During the 
past winter, the site of the ILS Prototype | experienced 
119 inches of snow and more than a week at a time of no 
sun or wind. Temperatures were down to ten degrees 
ILS solar collectors, 
§ 
heat storage, and 
e”’— electric pickup. 
uni 
Technolo 
Inc. 
New transportation systems, such as locally built electric 
4 m 
ty 
gy, 
a 
cars, locally built bikes, electric shopping carts, pedal- 
gre. 
cars, and anything else that can make Adams-Morgan more 
rl Hess, always introduced as the-radical-who-used-to- 
self-reliant and a better place to live. 
e-speeches-for-Barry-Goldwater, has spent several 
ars immersed in the Adams-Morgan neighborhood of 
s hington DC exploring uses of soft technology for 
ghborhood autonomy and self-organization. Works 
cahoots with the Institute for Self-Reliance and 
mmunitas. Inspirational literature available (send $7 
od stamped self-addressed envelope). 
pas 
—SB 
Hydroponic gardens and greenhouses in which high yields 
of vegetables can be produced year-round from plants growing 
directly in nutrient solutions. 
Street and alley gardens, to make use of all available space 
to increase the food quality and quantity available in the 
neighborhood. 
Waste disposal systems to produce fertilizer and energy 
instead of pollution. 
ty Technology, Inc. 
ew Hampshire Ave. NW 
ygton, DC 20036 
Projects 
to reclaim discarded materials, redesign obsolete 
things, make sure that nothing goes to waste when so many 
need so much. 
Communications: 
Alternative technologies ranging from 
better ways to put up’ posters to neighborhood-wide 
broadcasting—— extensions, in a way, of the good things 
that the Video Center does. 
some of the things that could be done right here in 
in: 
J sity production of food fish in neighborhood 
(We've already demonstrated how you can 
to ten tons of fish per year in a single basement.) 
Tool inventory: What tools and skills do we have in 
Adams-Morgan? We'll try to find out—— with your 
help—— and then maybe we can develop a cooperative way 
nati ve sources of energy such as solar heating and 
to use those tools and skills for the benefit of the neighbor- 
ergy, methanol. 
FISH PISS: THE LINKING OF AQUACULTURE AND 
THE RAISING OF VEGETABLE CROPS 
~ 
In 1970 we performed an interesting laboratory experiment 
in watering lettuce and parsley plants with enriched water 
from a densely populated aquarium. A series of plants 
was grown in flower pots. Half of them were watered 
with tap water and half with water from a 55 gallon 
tank containing 8 small catfish. The plants watered from 
the aquarium grew faster and were visibly larger than those 
which received tap water. 
This year the experiment was repeated outdoors on a larger 
scale. Leaf lettuce, beets and zucchinis (leaf crop, root crop 
and vine crop) were the vegetables used. Half of the 
plants received tap water while the others received water 
from one of our aquaculture ponds containing about 700 
tilapia and a heavy algae bloom. Beets and zucchinis did 
not respond to the enriched water, but the lettuce was a 
different story. 
In three successive experimental trials 
involving 69 to 98 lettuce plants, the weight of edible 
lettuce produced in the pond water plots exceeded that 
from the tap water plots by 44.3%, 67.9% and 121.6%. 
We conclude that vegetable growers having access to fish 
pond water would be well repaid for the effort of applying 
such water to shallow rooted leaf crop vegetables, particularly 
those which, like lettuce, favor abundant moisture and 
high levels of fertilization. There are other benefits from 
connecting pond and garden cycles. We found that the 
tilapia fish avidly consume vegetable crop wastes, especially 
carrot tops and a variety of weeds from the gardens. The 
various links create a productive cycle: plants for the fish 
and man, fertilizer and moisture from the fish ponds for 
the plants, and the steward gently orchestrating the whole. 
below zero Fahrenheit. The energy systems of the Prototype 
functioned normally. 
A prototype like ILS | would have cost industry about 
$500,000.00. The capital outlay for Prototype | was 
about $12,000.00 and two man-years. Our monetary 
efficiency demands much research and development at 
reduced costs. 
ILS Labs isa laboratory. 
It in itself is an experiment. 
Weare not a business but a team of ten people who design, 
construct, and live in systems which can ultimately be 
brought into society by other impact groups. Our goal 
is to build a larger laboratory with some two hundred 
scientists, engineers, designers, lawyers, doctors, artists, 
anthropologists, communications people and the like, 
working together in a new way with a sense of urgency to 
provide new tools, models and methodologies to 
grapple with the broad problems of energy, people and 
habitat. We have the hardware to build a very inexpensive 
physical plant for the laboratory in a very short period 
of time. The ILS system hardware allows for the first 
time energy autonomous communities to be built. Many 
national laboratories have been created 
to respond to 
urgent national problems. 
It is time to build a laboratory 
which responds to the urgent problems of energy and 
appeals in its physical form and objectives to kindle the 
imagination of the ILS staff as well as the American public. 
hood and thus become a little smarter, a little more self- 
reliant. 
Manufacturing: What sort of local productive facilities 
can we have here; What do you think? And couldn't we 
do a better job of sharing work and sharing production 
, than the profit-hungry big corporations? 
2) 8 
<n 
Karl Hess 
iy 
WOO
LOS
Se
ne 
3 
a 
mass 
< ee 
a ey 
