SIRVELMER 
O24 
IL (institute for Lightweight Tension Structures)—— 
Frei Otto 
Tension structures are one of the better ways to cover a 
space with minimum materials. Such structures are not the 
floppy, buffeting, awkward canvas shapes we recognize in 
revival meeting tents. 
Rather, they are tough, semirigid 
membranes of startling grace that can withstand weather 
extremes without failure. The technique invites lightness 
and portability. Smaller scale structures can be executed 
by individuals at a technical level that results in useful 
performance. 
This series of books represents the progress report from a 
group that works very hard, tries lots of things, and feels 
an unusual responsibility to publish its findings. (See 
Tensile Structures: Volume One and Volume Two, Pg. 
106). Most interesting to me is the work: Division of 
forms and constructions in living nature and technology 
as a basis for design and form determination (IL 3 and 4) 
The books are sharply printed on glossy paper and nicely 
bound. 
| always seem to learn a lot from Frei Otto and his 
co-workers. Apparently other people feel the same way, for 
my Frei Otto books seem to disappear forever soon after 
1 get them. The relatively high price reflects the cost of 
translation, and appears to be in line with quality. /L 1—— 
Deals with determination of minimal net structures by use 
of soap film analysis and other methods. 56pp. $5.00 
postpaid. 
iL 2—— Explores “The City In The Arctic”. The covering 
of a large area which would be maintained as an artificial 
climate in a location otherwise not easily inhabited. Not 
exactly back to the land, but there are many exciting ideas 
presented in the form of feasibility studies. 57pp. $7.25 
postpaid. 
IL 1 through 7 
Ed: Berthold Burkhardt 
Prices above 
from: 
Wittenborn & Company 
1018 Madison Avenue 
New York, NY 10021 
Radiolaria Shell in an Electronmicrograph 
Polyurethane Foam: 
Fire Hazard 
Polyurethane foam is the best insulating material known. 
However, it has recently been revealed (indications are 
that the plastics companies knew years ago) that foam is 
liable to a peculiar and dangerous type of fire hazard: 
if 
temperatures near the foam get hot enough, it can explode 
in flame and emit lethal gas. 
About five years ago when | became interested in the material, 
| was told, as were others, that it was ‘‘self-extinguishing.”” 
Sure enough, if you held a piece in the flames, it would cease 
Polyurethane foam manufacturer responding 
to questions about flammability. 
A foam insulated room explodes into flame 
from a wastebasket fire. 
TENSILE STRUCTURES & DOMES 
IL 3-— The biologist is recently concerned with the 
impact of technology. The technologist is forced to have 
an increasing awareness of biology. These papers explore 
“the question of human beings and the best possible 
environment for them”, looking at the possibilities through 
various examples and metaphors furnished by nature. | 
found this volume to be especially good. Chapter headings 
include Animal Building, Urban Planning, Biological 
Knowledge and Social Transition.”’ 79pp. $5.00 postpaid. 
IL 4—— Continues from IL 3 fine discussions of 
structure in animals and plants. One example shows how a 
study of foot structure in ancient skeletons can reveal 
whether the animal was biped or quadruped. Chapter 
headings include Biomechanics, Statics of Extremities, 
Sandwich Structures in the Skull Capsules of Various 
Birds.- 79pp. $7.25 postpaid. 
/L 5—— A marvelous display of ideas for convertible 
roofs for structures of various sizes. Some examples of 
actually constructed devices in operation. Copious photos 
of amazingly realistic models. 398pp. $28.10 postpaid. 
iL 6—— Covers an array of subjects including more biology, 
Spiderwebs, Structural Analysis of plants, some more soap 
film work, and a presentation of computer-drawn structures 
that can be viewed in 3D using special goggles provided with 
the book. 88 pp. $9.50 postpaid. 
/L 7—— A comprehensive report on studies made for shade 
roofs made from plastic nets in a hot dry climate. Includes 
climate studies, various proposals, and a discussion of the 
economics involved. 88pp. $7.25 postpaid. 
—J. Baldwin 
burning when you removed it. Yet in a more realistic test of 
what could happen in a home, ABC-TV news (in an excellent 
1973 special on fire) showed a test where a paper-filled 
wastebasket was lit in the corner of a foam-sprayed home: 
in seconds the corner was burning fiercly. As the heat hit the 
ceiling, an avalanche of flames and poisonous smoke swept 
across the room. ABC News revealed that as early as 1969 
the plastics companies knew of the hazard: they were 
warned by Underwriters’ Laboratories that “’. . 
. fire behavior 
of the polyurethane foam with adequate oxygen supply is 
one of very rapid flame spread, high early heat output rate, 
and produces large quantities of dense black smoke. This 
indicates that manual fire 
fighting of such a fire would 
be difficult.” 
Ina well-known fire in a 
Bakersfield, Calif., warehouse, 
a welder’s torch set fire toa 
foam sprayed interior wall, and 
the fire covered 700 feet of the 
building in less than 10 
minutes. 
Foam is made of oil and will 
burn like gasoline if it gets 
going. 
It should be covered 
by sheetrock or 1/2’ plaster, 
and by the time you've done 
this, it’s quite expensive. 
—LK 
The Dome Builder’s Handbook 
The first in a series of dome exchange-communique 
books for people who want to build their own. The 
have the mailing list from Domebook 2 and are 
current organizers of domebuilding communication. 
In their introduction they say “If you want to build 
full fledged dome house, it should be because you 
want to live in that kind of space and are willing to 
| 
go to alittle extra trouble to have a house thatis 
| 
unique.” Lots of models, and a variety of dome 
}
construction dramas from readers. 
—LK 
The Dome Builder’s 
Handbook 
Ed: John Prenis 
1973; 107pp. 
$4.00 postpaid 
from: 
Running Press 
38 South 19th Street 
Philadelphia, PA 19103 
or Whole Earth 
' 
‘ f 
Another time, my helpers and | had the dome about three 
quarters complete when it became obvious that something 
was badly wrong. Struts refused to stay in place, hubs 
pushed outwards, while others pressed inwards. | pushed a| 
pulled at base hubs, and shifted leveling blocks from one 
spot to another, to no avail. Naturally this was just the 
time when a crowd of curious bystanders gathered to ask 
foolish questions about the dome and why it wasn’t worki/ 
Finally we found the trouble—— someone had put a short 
strut where a long one should have been. When that was 
corrected, the distortion disappeared, and so did all our 
problems. With proper color coding, the mistake would ha\ 
been obvious at once, or more likely, would not have 
happened at all. 
Be sure tools and materials will be available when needed, 
and don’t skimp on things like ladders and scaffolding. 
Trying to make do with makeshifts can get somebody hurt 
After the dome was completed and all seemed fine becaus: 
of the low cost, the happy sightseers, the attention and 
discussion, it was distressing to find that it was almost 
| 
impossible to seal weather tight. Apparently others have hi 
the same problem, but | didn’t know that or how to profi 
from their experience, so it took at least three attempts to 
get favorable results. Metal strips and caulking worked for 
about a month, until the differences in expansion rates 
|
allowed the seams to pop open again. Resealing with heavil 
roofing compounds had the same dismal effect. Aluminum 
sheets. from the Twin Falls newspaper printing department 
applied with staples worked much better. The most positi 
way to roof a dome that | have found is shingling. Asphal' 
shingles are easier to apply than cedar shingles, also the 
former cost less. 
Dome Cookbook of Geodesic Geometry 
Shows actual derivation of chord factors and angles and 
“_. unlike Domebook One and Domebook Two, the 
chord factor results here are in close agreement with thosé 
of Buckminster Fuller’s (A fact that is important when 
working with three frequency domes)... 
. “ 
—-LK 
Dome Cookbook 
of Geodesic Geometry 
; 
David Kruschke 
le K 
hk 
1972: 46pp. 
avi 
ruschke 
2135 West Juneau Ave. 
$2.00 postpaid 
Milwaukee, WI 53233 
