‘ 
ren’s play; Sind the PoRissohy and 
lay, to, playground design and miscellaneous 
ccur only ina condition of freedom, because 
all doing what you want to do, when and 
want to do it. 
ty 
ing on tele and use of play spaces from the 
t of view is neglected. A case history of the 
layground in Central Park in New York City is 
around the project. There isa portfolio of recent 
in various parts of the country, and a chapter on 
inds for handicapped children. Rich in illustrations 
fe rmation, this book will be invaluable for all those 
design for play 
Richard Dattner AIA 
MIT Press 
28 Carleton St. 
Cambridge, MA 02142 
or Whole Earth 
ion of play in childhood has been essentially 
tood in the past. Surprising numbers of people 
intain that the primary function of play is to “let off 
that the child can return to the more important 
| of study and learning. Countless studies of how 
yence develops in children show that precisely the 
o Start Your Own Preschool Playgroup 
es of young children will find here delightful, 
sensical advice on solving one of their biggest 
low to manage time for a job/studies/preservation 
y, by providing child care that is affordable/reliable/ 
to the child. Harriet Watts’ answer is the organization 
school playgroups of five or six children, with each 
ather : 
ipervising the group for one morning a week and 
ing the other four weekday mornings free. She gives 
te, 
nitty-gritty advice on legal, psychological and 
concerns, with suggestions on how to get started, 
lat equipment to have, what activities to plan, and how to 
the experience a rewarding one for both children and 
rs. A warm, practical book obviously written out of 
ire 
to share personal experience, meeting a real need 
How to Start Your 
— 
Own Preschool 
Playgroup 
Harriet M. Watts 
1973; 153pp. 
$2.95 Postpaid 
from: 
Universe Books 
381 Park Avenue South 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
sting about for members, you will have fewer 
s if you are careful to limit the age span. The 
ce between a two-year-old and one age three is 
s 
any mother knows. A child of two will try to 
what his three-year-old friend creates. He tires 
e 
easily and has a span of concentration of what seems 
30 seconds. In other words, put the two in the same pot 
n expect all sorts of toil and trouble to bubble up. 
t 
four-year-old might seem more successful, 
| the older child tends to get cheated. His coordination 
standing are just that much more highly developed, 
e does not show his boredom, his time would be 
ly spent with his peers. It is also extremely 
ic 
mother to compensate for this difference with 
vi 
ention or separate projects. A group of three- 
-old can become one terrible tornado if neglected for 
reverse is true—— that play is the way 
in which children develop intelligence. 
To put it simply, play is a child’s way 
of learning. 
4 
“hse 
ei 
ot 
Children are immediately at ease amidst 
the “junk.’’ Finding some order and 
harmony in piles of building materials 
and debris, they quickly set to work 
rearranging them to suit some elaborate 
and highly personal plan. Adults, on the 
other hand, seldom see anything 
more than confusion, chaos, and 
danger, despite assurances by experienced 
supervisors that these playgrounds are 
generally much safer than the ordinary 
ones because the children are con- 
stantly busy and alert and seldom need 
to resort to destructive types of play, 
a frequent cause of serious accidents. 
The message is as clear as the children 
know how to make it—— they want to 
create their own kind of order based 
on criteria quite different from those 
of adults. They want to design their 
own playgrounds. 
— 
= 
& 
ABOUT THE LOSS OF INNOCENCE 
The summer of Camp Crap is coming to an end. 
Captain Mediafreak wakes up early in the morning. He 
places his face close to Chocolate Graham’s and synchronizes 
his breathing with hers. 
At seven o'clock, he plugs in the television set. Last night 
they watched Tomorrow. Now he tunes in Today. He 
listens to the sound through a button in his ear so as not to 
wake Chocolate. 
“In the Better Your Exit case,’ Barbara Walters is 
saying, ‘the witness who originally saw two men pouring 
gasoline on that first self-styled Kamikaze motorcyclist has 
disappeared.... The Dionysius Space Flight could possibly go 
out of orbit, according to— “ 
Captain Mediafreak switches from NBC to CBS. 
“One of our astute film editors,” Hughes Rudd is saying, 
“remembered seeing the face of Innocence before, and dug 
up this out-take from a Human Be-In— remember them?— 
at Golden Gate Park in San Francisco back in 1967.” 
“I'm a mutation,” the frizzie-haired hippie with a 
diffraction disc on her forehead is saying. “ That‘s all | know.” 
White block lettering that reads CHARLOTTE 
WOMANDA UGHTER is superimposed across her chest. 
An interviewer's voice asks, ‘“‘What do you mean, a 
mutation?” She answers, “Well, you know, if you were 
with the Bland Corporation, and you projected into the 
future all these young dropouts who are going around 
sniffing flowers instead of fighting with the military or going 
ape-(bleep) over every new kitchen appliance, you’d consider 
us like mutations. You'd write a report that said, ‘Oh, this 
is a bad litter; we better poison the lot of “em with 
strychnine before they spread.’ ’ The interviewer's voice 
asks, ‘“‘How do you feel about fraternizing with the enemy?” 
Charlotte grins and says, “Hey, there’s a lot of suppressed 
poets ahd painters and musicians hiding under straight people. 
You shouldn't try to divide us. That’s propaganda, man.” 
Captain Mediafreak notices that among the crowd in the 
background, Notary Sojak is pointing out Innocence to 
Primo Columbian.... 
Flashiebackie: 
Captain Mediafreak’s mother has come to visit him at the 
abandoned Times Square newsstand and meet his new 
roommate Tongue Fu. 
“It will really be wonderful,” she is saying, ‘for the two 
of you to get away from the city. It’s so hot and muggy 
here in the summer. But won’t you miss your television?” 
“I'm thinking of taking the set with me on the plane,” 
Captain Mediafreak says. “I’m gonna buy a ticket for it. 
We'll sit next to each other and fasten our seat-belts when 
the stewardess tells us to. And she'll serve it a TV Dinner.” 
His mother is sitting on an old stack of Ed Sanders’ 
mimeographed Fuck You: A Magazine of the Performing 
Arts, sewing name tapes onto everything 
in sight— clothes, 
toothpaste tube, motion picture camera— when she asks 
Tongue Fu, “‘Isn’t all this media stuff a contradiction of 
that philosophy of yours about not getting caught in the 
past?” 
15 BUS DIREC 
“The earth is a living organism. And the media are the 
nervous system of the earth. If the media are healthy, the 
earth is healthy. If the media are diseased, the earth is 
diseased.” 
“| reckon it’s the old question,” says Mrs. Mediafreak. 
“Which came first, the earth or the media?” 
; 
“Which came first,” Tongue Fu asks in return. “* You— 
or your nervous system?” 
“Oh, | couldn’t answer that,” she says. “But you just 
just make sure my little Captain Stumpy writes to me from 
camp every day— so Ill know he’s healthy, | don’t care 
about the earth— just a postcard, is all | ask.... ” 
“Let’s make a baby today,” 
to Tongue Fu. 
“We will do it on Coincidence Cliff.” 
“Where else? My favorite place in all of Camp Crap.” 
“The child shall choose its own name.” 
“Okay, but we'll call it Fun, at least until then. All I’ve 
ever really wanted to do was have Fun. And that name 
could fit either a girl or a boy.”’ 
“It could also be Japanese or American. Fun Fu. The 
name pleases me.” 
“No, not Fun Fu. Fun Zwalyimeh.” 
“Is it not the custom to give a child the name of the 
father?” 
“I've figured that one out. The reason is, you always 
know who the mother is, but sometimes you can’t be 
absolutely positive who the father is, so they give a baby 
the ostensible father’s name because it’ll imply he’s 
definitely the father.” 
“| would like— to make a film record— on the 
development of Fun.” 
“Captain Mediafreak could film the birth in our home.” 
“Beyond birth,” says Tongue Fu. “| would like to film— 
us, as we fuck today— for Fun to be able to witness its own 
conception.” 
“But we'll use the tripod. And put all the equipment 
out of the way behind the bushes. And have it prepared in 
advance. Then we'll take some MDA first.” 
And so they do. 
They’re kissing as they softly undress each other. 
Rosebud caresses Tongue Fu’s outstretched tongue with 
her own, first the entire length of the underside, then 
along the top, spiralling around the matrix of papillae. And 
then, while she purses her lips over the tip, he begins to 
withdraw his tongue, slowly, bringing her closer and 
closer to him. 
They seem to melt to the ground. 
Rosebud is resting on her back, legs apart, knees in the 
air. 
“| will respect your wish,” Tongue Fu promises, “‘and 
never say— | love you— but | will always be thinking it.” 
Now he is gently separating the petals of her cunt with 
the swirls of his tongue, then ever so gradually slithering in 
deeper and deeper and deeper. 
Suddenly Rosebud’s body twitches. 
“You sexist pig,” she says. 
And hits Tongue Fu on top of his head with a rock, 
knocking him unconscious. 
She pulls his tongue out of her. Drags him to the edge 
of Coincidence Cliff, his head bleeding and his tongue still 
Rosebud Zwalyimeh says 
drooping from his mouth. Then she pushes him off the cliff. 
And then jumps off herself. 
Over the public address system the Rolling Stones are 
singing Wild Horses. Captain Mediafreak is playing disc 
jockey again. 
[Continued, page 723] 
cial 
DINI
GVW 
