Simply the best periodical on books in America. Best 
reviews, widest coverage, least nonsense. 
To stay current 
in any field Id call it essential. 
—SB 
Library Journal 
John N. Berry III, Ed. 
$16.20 jyr 
from: 
Library Journal 
R.R. Bowker Co. 
300 North Zeeb Rd. 
Ann Arbor, MI 48106 
Hall, Laurence & others. New Colleges for New Students. 
Jossey-Bass. (Series in Higher Education). 1974. 
210p. index. LC 73-10933.$8.75. 
As pedagogic travelogues go, this national guided tour of 
nontraditional configurations for new college-level 
learners is a fine trip. The variations for effective 
education studied are designed to attract and retain 
Particular kinds of students—— minorities, women, blue- 
collar—— that traditional, elitist universities have here- 
tofore ignored or doomed to systematic failure. 
Hall stops 
_ at 16 diverse and provocative landmarks—— including 
the Maicolm-King Harlem College Extension, the Chicago 
TV College, and the Rural Family Development Project—— 
combining reportage with often excellent commentaries 
on creative and responsive approaches that reflect sub- 
stantial educational reforms and transformations. College 
libraries please take note.—— Shelley Neiderbach, Learning 
Center, Jersey City State Coll., N.J. 
Pond, Barbara. A Sampler of Wayside Herbs: rediscovering 
old uses for familiar wild plants. 
Chatham, dist. by Viking. 
1974.126p. illus., some 
color, bibliog. index. LC 73-89773.$17.50. 
Folklore/Botany 
A selective and elegant treatment of nearly 100 familiar 
wayside plants, weeds, and herbs. Watercolor paintings of 
the herbs, temptingly suitable for framing, are generously 
interspersed with an accurate, humorous text. These common 
weeds are not only beautiful, but have a long and venerable 
ancestry in medicine, ceremony, symbolism, and history. 
The vignettes throughout are good (for example, Pond 
notes that the Romans were in the habit of toasting 
Bacchus with violet wine, then wearing garlands of violets 
the morning after to soothe their throbbing craniums). 
Though this book is not encyclopedic, it should give much 
pleasure to casual readers.—— Patricia Goodfellow, Leaside 
P.L., Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
The Federal Information Center 
For once (I’m glad to say) there is a governmental agency 
that knows what it is doing. These people are so fast at 
finding information that | have been unable to receive 
their answer. 
. 
. | was so flabbergasted. They are fast, 
extremely curteous, and accurate. This is like a phone-in 
Whole Earth Catalog. One time | called the Los Angeles 
City Hall to find out where the county was going to present 
their sewer proposal to the South Coast Regional Planning 
Commission (whew!). After being transferred around about 
twenty times | gave up and called the FIC. .. BINGO, they 
had it. They will frequently take your number and, after 
researching a question, cal! you right back. Saves on the 
phone bill. | think they deserve peonies of praise. . 
. 
Write to General Services Administration, Washington DC 
20405 for brochure giving FIC office nearest you. 
Scott Bryson 
Malibu, CA 
Toxline 
A computer-search service of the scientific literature on a 
range of environmental subjects is available from Leonard 
L. Lewis, 2560 Hilgard Ave., Berkeley, California 94709 
(415) 666-2397. Peter Warshall reports: “Concerned with 
the side effects of a herbicide used near-by, | asked Mr. 
Lewis to produce a Bibliography on the chemical. 
It was 
amazing! Good references with abstracts. Saved hours of 
time. If your request is very extensive, he may have to ask 
for a contribution. My print-out took about 30 seconds and 
was 150 pages.” 
Encyclopaedia Britannica 
The new Britannica’s vital statistics are impressive: 
15 
years in preparation, 160lbs., 43 million words, 33,141 
pages, $32 million to develop (excluding printing). 
3 
Fortunately, the contents are impressive, as well. Don’t 
be put off by the high-sounding titles of the three sections 
into which the 30 volumes are divided—— this new format 
works well. The Micropaedia (Ready Reference & Index) 
carries a comprehensive set of 102,000 shorter articles; 
40,000 of these entries are cross-referenced to longer 
articles in the Macropaedia (Knowledge in Depth). 
The 
Propaedia (Outline of Knowledge) is a one-volume study 
guide which classifies human knowledge within ten categories, 
then subdivides the topics within those basic areas. 
It is a 
highly organized index to the information in the Micro- 
paedia and Macropaedia—— a great aid in exploring a subject 
in depth and on through its related fields. 
In fact, 
“Britannica 3’ has been conceived as a tool for teaching 
oneself, in a systematic way, the range of man’s accumulated 
knowledge. 
It is still the definitive reference work—— a 
worthy 
successor in a proud line. 
The Britannica regularly retails in a standard binding at 
$598 plus tax and shipping, which includes a bookcase and 
several other reference works. As a person having an 
association with an educational institution, | purchased the 
set in library binding, without the bookcase and additional 
publications, for $348. 
Yearly updates will also be 
available, 
—DH 
Encylopaedia 
Britannica 
: 
15th Edition; 30 volumes 
Encyclopaedia 
Britannica, Inc. 
425 N. Michigan Ave. 
Chicago, Illinois 60611 
Figure 1: Roman aqueduct at Segovia, Spain, 
probably built under Trajan (c. AD 100-110). Still 
in use, the 2,700-foot structure carries water from 
the Rio Frio to the city of Segovia. 
Copulation in oligochaetes is reciprocal—that is, both 
sperm and eggs are exchanged—and takes place in a 
head to tail position, with the two ventral surfaces in 
contact (see Figure 2). In lower oligochaetes, the male 
From W. Kukenthal and T. Krumbach (eds,), Handbuch der Zoologie; 
by permission of Walter de Gruyter, Berlin-New York 
Figure 2: Enchytraeus albidus in copulation, the male pore, on 
segment 12, being directly opposed to the spermathecal 
pore of the other worm, between segments 4 and 5. 
_ orders. 
ee 
- Just remembered that H—NM sell sets of paperbacks by 
df 
] 
Cream Rises : 
REFERENCE 
Finding Facts Fast 
; 
Outstanding guidebook 
683 
Encyclopaedia Britannica 
Completely new 
682. 
Library Journal 
Best reviews 
682 
Publisher’s Weekly 
Book trade 
436 
AAAS Science Books 
—’ 
_Widest science reviews 
364 
Crafts Books 
Craft reviews 
546 
The Reader’s Advisor 
Best in-print books 
364 
The Compact Oxford English Dictionary 
Logophile heaven 
685 
Conservation Directory 
- 
Environmental groups 
467 
Origins Word derivations 
685 
: 
A Manual of Style 
English written usage 
680 
Times Atlas of the World 
Best atlas 
9 
Goode’s World Atlas 
Best buy 459 
Man’s Domain 
Cheapest atlas 
9 
Thomas Register American Manufacturers 
130 
A Treasury of Traditional Wisdom 
Mystical reference 
456 
The Film-Goers Companion 
Total movie reference 
693 
Alternatives in Print 
Wilder Books-in-print 
681 
Black Interest 
Basic black info 
622-625 
Books-By-Phone 
“You can call 800-645-9040 free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a 
week, and order any book in print.’ That‘s the claim... 
. 
The limits seem to be the listing, Books in Print, by Bowker. 
Funkier items will still have to be ordered directly from 
the various publishers. 
Billing is on your Master Charge, Bankamericard, American 
Express, or Diner’s Club. They also accept checks. You will 
be charged the retail price of the books plus $1.00 per 
order. NOT PER BOOK. PER ORDER. 
| was not “notified promptly’’ when they found that two 
other books (not listed) were not in stock at the publishers’ 
warehouses, and eventually called after waiting three weeks 
for some word. 
Here is where a very redeeming feature showed up. Every 
time | have called to check on any order, the people have 
been friendly, loose, even chatty. AND! The records were 
always close-at-hand, and complete. No one ever ran into 
any delay or confusion while checking the status of the 
Conclusion: 
| was going to recommend them for 
“straightforward items.’ Try them for anything. They'll 
tell you if they can get it. Often, you can call back in 
thirty minutes and ask for the person you talked to and 
check whether or not they can get what you ordered. 
Rick Wannall 
Terra Facts 
Freeport, Texas 
Instant Hardcover 
For $1.55 to $3.25 (higher price only for largest size books) 
Hertzberg will convert any paperbound book up to the size 
of the Catalog/Epilog into a sturdy, long-lasting hardbound. 
Buy cheap. Convert to hardbound. 
| find that my books are easier to handle with the new 
binding—— open easier; don’t fight me. They feel good. 
Nirvana—— knowing that my autographed copy of Utopia of 
Oblivion will last forever, and for only $1.60 over the purché 
price of $1.25. Cheap preservation. 
You do have to send a minimum of 10 books or there is a 
$2.50 service charge. 
; 
‘ 
Hertzberg—New Method 
: 
Vandalia Rd. 
Jacksonville, |L 62652 
subjects (Sociology, Black History, etc.), all bound up 
into 
the hard covers. Though their market is the library, you ca" 
get a catalog and ask if they will sell single titles from among 
those already bound. You might save time and not have to 
buy a minimum number. 
‘ 
—Rick 
Freeport, TX 
er 
ees 
