WHY, HOW AND WHERE 
TO BECOME A RADIO AMATEUR 
by Wes Plouff 
1. Why become a radio amateur? Ham radio is a means of 
communications proven cheap, reliable and effective. 
During and after an emergency, ham radio has time and 
time again been often the best and just as often the only 
link with the outside world. With a 200-watt transceiver 
and a modest antenna you can make friends all over the 
world. On the other side of the coin, amateur repeater 
stations {about 600 in the US) will let you use walkie- 
talkies and other low-power equipment to talk over 20-50 
mile ranges. 
_ Ham radio is full of fascinating sidelines. Hams are 
__ working in high-speed cw (Morse code), very low power 
transmitters, radioteletype, moonbounce, and all types of 
experimentation from long- to microwaves. You can send 
fast-scan (ordinary) tv to the horizon or slow scan tv around 
the world. The Amateur Satellite Corp. has put up Oscar 
6, the world’s only open-access communications satellite. 
Limited by power available to operating three days a week, 
since November 1972 Oscar 6 has passed conversations 
between thousands of hams around the world. Oscar 7,an 
- 
internationally designed and built sister ship, will go up 
in 1974. 
All American radio amateurs get their licenses from the 
Federal Communications Commission. 
Novice, or beginner's 
licenses are free and good for two years. To get one you 
must pass a pair of exams before another ham to prove 
you can send and receive Morse code at five words per 
minute and know elementary radio theory and FCC regu- 
lations. Higher classes of licenses cost $9 for five years 
and can be gotten only at FCC examining points. There 
are 90 of these where FCC exams are held at least yearly, 
including the 29 FCC offices where exams are often held 
twice weekly. Most hams hold the General class license, 
which requires 13 wpm code speed and intermediate theory. 
Equipment need not be expensive. A good beginner's 
Station costs $50- 150 with a little careful shopping. Most 
hams would think twice about investing $1000 in ham 
radio over ten years. Of course, home-built equipment is 
the ham’s pride and joy, and costs as little as the builder is 
a good parts scrounger. 
Right now you're probably wondering, ‘‘Why all this 
license and code hassle when | can get on the Citizens Band 
so easily?”’ Well, a CB license takes only an application and 
$20 fee, and most CBers don’t bother with that. But until 
and unless the FCC cleans up the band, those 900,000 
operators on 22 channels might best be described as 
inhabitants of a radio zoo. 
So, what is the price of all these ham radio goodies? Not too 
many dollars, but a good bit of patience and dedication. You 
might meet a few interesting people on and off the air, too. 
1. How can you get started in amateur radio? The best way 
is to meet a ham and talk to him. Finding your local radio 
amateurs may not be easy. Some places to look and ask are: 
the local newspaper, electronic wholesale stores, high school 
radio clubs, and the Red Cross. If youcan findastore 
_ 
catering to hams, your problem is solved. Radio amateurs 
often put on code and theory classes in conjunction with 
the local school district, junior college or YMCA. If all this 
fails, try writing to the American Radio Relay League, 
Newington, Conn. 06111. 
Once you've found your ham, explain to him your fascination 
with radio communication and your willingness to devote 
sufficient time to the hobby. The rest should take care of 
itself. Two cautions are in order, though. First, politics 
and religion are forbidden subjects for most amateurs; this 
taboo has survived for good reason for several decades. 
Second, any single woman trying to get a license will sooner 
or later run into a widespread ‘‘this is too complicated for 
you to understand” attitude in even the most well-intentioned 
of hams. Beyond this, though, your ham friends will bend 
over backward to help you. 
Now that you’ve started on your way to earning a license, 
get ready to buy the necessary equipment. First, get How to 
Become a Radio Amateur, The Radio Amateur’s License 
Manual (be sure to get a current edition), and Learning the 
Radiotelegraph Code, three books by the ARRL. They 
are packaged together as a “‘gateway package” which sells 
for $2.50. Sooner or later you should buy the ARRL Radio 
Amateur’s Handbook for $4.50. To learn the Morse code 
you will need a good telegraph key and a code practice 
oscillator (cpo), which may put you back another $10. 
Headphones, which should not be the hi-fi type, will keep 
your roommates happy for a few more dollars. 
In order to listen to signals on the ham bands, you will need 
a good receiver and antenna. The antenna need be nothing 
more than a long wire strung between insulators, though for 
best results when actually transmitting a tuned dipole 
antenna fed in the center with coaxial cable is almost a must. 
The receiver is half your station and the first large investment 
you will make in amateur radio. You will want a good 
communications receiver with a BFO or product detector. 
Communications receivers come in four types: general 
coverage in many small ranges, general coverage, general 
coverage with calibrated bandspread on the ham bands, and 
ham bands only coverage. The first kind is a deluxe receiver 
selling for over $1000, the second undesirable because it is 
hard to spread stations apart without bandspread. The last 
kind is the best if you don’t care about short wave broadcasts, 
but most good models cost considerably more than $150, 
the price for an entire station. 
We are left with the general coverage receiver with calibrated 
bandspread. There are several older models which you can 
buy used for rather little. Ask your ham friends for advice 
and have one of them inspect any used receiver before you 
buy. One other alternative is to build your own receiver or 
build a kit. 
Buying a transmitter and getting a station on the air are two 
subjects best left to the hams helping you for explanation. 
I1!. Where is the best place to get parts and information for 
ham radio or electronics tinkering in general? That question 
has no good, simple answer. In the past several years it has 
become next to impossible to get everything you need in 
one place, and some things are all but impossible for the 
nonbusiness buyer to obtain. Below are some semi-random 
thoughts on buying electronics books and parts. 
Books: The American Radio Relay League wins this one 
hands down. Some ARRL books are classics (the Handbook 
and the ARRL Antenna Book) and all are guaranteed to be 
comprehensive and cheap. Not all of them are clearly 
written, though. Commercial book companies such as Sams 
and TAB have an unfortunate tendency to be expensive in 
terms of the real information they offer. Government 
Publications (such as the Navy Radioman course) are likely 
to be good but dated. 
Magazines: The Big Four in amateur radio are, with 
subscription prices: 
QST, ARRL, Newington, Conn. 06111 ($7.50 as part of 
ARRL dues) 
73, Peterborough, N.H. 03458 ($7) 
Ham Radio, Greenville, N.H. 03048 ($7) 
CQ, Cowan Publ. Corp. 14 Vanderventer Ave., Port 
Washington, L.1., NY 11050 ($6) 
These magazines are often more informative than the books 
available, and should probably be bought in the order listed. 
Unfortunately, CQ, the worst of the four, is the only one 
with wide newsstand distribution. Most of the popular 
electronics magazines you find on the newsstand aren’t worth 
a shit, so stay away from them. The only possible exception 
to this is Radio Electronics, but that, too has been going 
downhill. 
Parts stores: Radio Shack and Lafayette Radio are okay for 
Parts but considerably more expensive than most sources. 
Your local small wholesaler may or may not sell to the 
informed layman, but likely will sell to radio amateurs. 
Larger wholesalers are less likely to sell to individuals, but 
some will be very nice when you want to get hard-to-find 
Parts. Some larger chains you might try are Newark, Allied 
Industrial, Hamilton/Avnet and Semiconductor Specialists. 
These stores may require a minimum amount if they have 
to back-order for you. 
: 
Mail order parts: The biggies, of course, are: 
Newark Electronics, 500 North Pulaski Road, Chicago, 
Il. 60624 
Allied Electronics, 2400 W. Washington Blvd., Chicago, 
Il. 60612 
Newark’s catalog is free, but there is a $15 minimum order. 
Allied used to be the best catalog house before Tandy Corp. 
(Radio Shack) took it over. Now it may become the best 
supplier once again. Catalog $1, minimum order unknown 
(probably $10). These two places often can supply.newer 
Parts not listed in their catalogs. In addition, there are a 
number of smaller outfits catering to the experimenter. Look 
for their ads in the back of ham radio magazines. A good 
source list appears in the construction practices chapter of 
the ARRL Handbook, this taken from an excellent article 
in the August (?) 1972 issue of QST. Most places have a 
$5 minimum order. 
Surplus parts: There are two kinds of electronic surplus 
these days, military and industrial. The military kind is the 
traditional outdated radio gear, built to last forever. 
A good 
source for this is 
Fair Radio Sales Co., 1016 E. Eureka St., P.O. Box 1105, 
Lima, Ohio 45802 
‘ 
Industrial surplus is mostly overruns and components not 
quite up to specs. Most of it will work in noncritical 
applications, but caveat emptor is the watchword. Look at 
the ads for names and addresses. 
Other sources for parts: about the cheapest source for 
electronic parts is to get old gear and cannibalize it. Surplus 
houses sell computer boards which are good sources for 
digital 1Cs. Amateur radio conventions, hamventions, swap 
and shops and flea markets can yield some bargains. 
IV. Since 1970 | have wondered, at least once in print, why 
Catalog and Epilog readers did not take advantage of this 
powerful communications tool. It is more personal than 
broadcast radio and cheaper than the telephone. The 
technical parts of the hobby are really not too difficult. 
Why not, then? Radiocommunication is no great mystery; 
it is not reserved for the rich, the established or the 
technically educated. In the Last Catalog, Stewart Brand 
comments, “The Radio Amateur’s Handbook may be of 
interest to the communities and enclaves who've been 
fantasizing an underground radio net.’’ Why underground? 
Why fantasize? 
Wes Plouff WA8CBN 
Port Huron, Mich. 
March 29, 1974 
| 
- 
Mail-order Electronics Firms. 
; 
Based mainly on the new IC (integrated circuit) silicon 
— 
technology, these mail-order companies are about the only 
reliable source of ICs at reasonable prices in most parts of 
the country, because 
; 
San 
ame 
1) The manufacturers will not sell small quantities. 
A thousand pieces is the usual minimum they seem 
to enjoy thinking about. 
ees 
2) The distributor networks for the manufacturers are 
oriented towards high-budget labs and one-of-a-kind 
| 
industrial applications. They feature high prices and 
very unreliable stocking—— the manufacturers are 
unkind even to them. 
The mail-order firms get around these problems by ‘tapping 
the large nationwide experimenter market. Thus they can get 
quantity discounts and fairly reliable delivery from the 
manufacturers, and still maintain a profit margin on small 
orders. 
is 
Specific Firms: (write for catalogs) 
Poly Paks 
im 
P.O. Box 942 
: 
sone 
South Lynnfield Mass 01940 
3 
; 
‘ 
(617) 245-3829 
4 
y 
The largest. Smorgasbord of good components with lots 
of junk mixed in. Somewhat disorganized. Some spec 
sheets on request—— remember to ask. Reasonably clear 
order form, except shipping charges explained very 
poorly. Stay away from untested or unmarked parts. 
_ 
“Factory seconds” are almost always useless (except for 
pectin ICs with separate gates, some of which may be 
good). 
Digi-Key Corporation 
P.O. Box 126 
Thief River Falls MN 56701 
(218) 681-6674 
¥ 
Smaller selection than Poly Paks, but much better 
organized and usually cheaper. Excellent combination 
catalog and order form. No spec sheets. 
Delta Electronics Co. 
Box 1 
Lynn, Mass. 01903 
(617) 388-4705 
Interesting catalog with some unusuai tems and a nice 
talky format—— for those who like rea. ing catalogs. 
Strong on transformers and used circuit voards. I’ve 
never ordered from them, though. 
Addenda: Spec sheets: Printed by the manufacturer, 
these describe the product and its use. They are essential 
to any work with semiconductors—— yet no good system 
exists for getting them out to individuals. Again, large 
customers have no problem here—— and the industry 
exists for them. 
: 
Radio Shack: Another source of semiconductors at only 
about triple the price you should pay. Fair variety, 
4 
unreliable supply. Good for emergencies, with occasional! 
bargains. 
; 
Ralph Dratman 
San Anselmo, CA 
New Directions Radio 
i 
My battlefield at this moment is putting the communication 
tool of amateur radio into the hands of people trying to 
change themselves and the world for the better. While the 
Project is only about 7 months along, things are going very 
well—— due in large part to a column on Slow-Scan TV in 
CQ, a straight-world ham magazine for the past two years, 
and the scope of this column was recently broadened t 
include these activities. 
Points of contact for current information are: 
: 
_ 
1. “New Directions Radio’’ column in The Mother Earth 
News ($8.00/year, Box 70, Hendersonville, NC 
28739) 
é 
2. “Cop’s Column”’ in CQ magazine ($6.00/year, 14 
Vanderventer Ave., Port Washington, NY 11050) 
3. Copthorne Macdonald, WO ORX, P.O. Box 483, 
Rochester, MN 55901. 
Hees 
All good things, 
Cop Macdonald 
Australian Hams 
wees 
Roger Harrison reports that ‘we have just recently produced 
a directory, covering Australia and New Zealand, for 
- 
Electronics and Communications freaks, radio amateurs, shot 
wave listeners, inventors, etc.’’ Write to: 6 Up Magazine; 
47 
Bellast Point Rd., Birchgrove 2041 N.S.W. Australia. 
: 
