COMMUNITY 
59G = Foon sTorace 
ame ahah 
eahdbdkard 
Ken, Doris and Evan Herrick. 
This 2-week supply of canned food for four, bought at an Oakland market 
by the Herricks, cost about $75. By buying in caselots with friends, or by substituting more tuna for 
salmon and choosing least expensive dried fruits, you could lower the total price. 
Setting 
ood By 
BY DORIS HERRICK 
Doris Herrick leads two lives. 
Every weekday but Tuesday she’s Associate Director of Development 
at Mills College 
in Oakland. On Tuesday she crosses the Bay to become Whole Earth’s leading researcher. As she strolled in to the 
office last week through 800,000 anchovies flipping out on the pier, she was heard to remark, “This certainly isn’t 
Mills College.” 
! would like to see her article expanded into a book. Would readers who have some experience in food storage be 
interested in helping? Tips, experiences, photos, ideas-worth-trying, other published articles. Help liven Doris’s 
Tuesdays. 
WHY STORE FOOD? 
The basic concept of food storage is similar to that 
of modern insurance or savings accounts. It isn’t a new 
idea. As a strategy for securing the future, it predates 
the Biblical story of Joseph’s advice to the Egyptian 
Pharoah to store food over seven plentiful years in 
preparation for seven years of famine. Only in very 
modern times have families not stocked their pantries 
and cellars with food supplies to carry them through 
lean seasons. In recent decades the necessity of 
keeping a food reserve has become an increasingly 
distant thought to most Americans. During the 20th 
century, crop production became more stable and 
improved technology increased yields to the point of 
surpluses. Burgeoning supermarket chains brought a 
cornucopia of foodstuffs within a few minutes’ drive 
of most people. Furthermore, living out your life in 
one house or one town became more and more 
uncommon; the trend toward family mobility and 
toward smaller family units living in smaller quarters 
made the full pantry tradition— particularly for 
urban dwellers— a nostalgic memory. What has been 
happening to challenge this state of neglect? 
Many of the common sense reasons for food storage 
remain the same as they’ve always been: the potential 
injury, illness or death of the family’s breadwinner, or 
the possibility of a natural disaster like an earthquake, 
tornado, hurricane, flood or blizzard——almost every 
section of the United States is vulnerable to one or 
another of these phenomena. The possibility of atomic 
war, while not felt so intensely by most Americans 
as some years back, holds more threat as the nuclear 
club admits new members. Social and economic dis- 
turbances such as civil disorders, strikes or mass unem- 
ployment in a recession or depression, not experienced 
—SB 
in a large-scale way by Americans since the 1930's, are 
prospects that seem less remote today. 
Since these potential problems have not sufficiently 
motivated the vast majority of Americans to set 
food by, what else is new that might spur such 
action? It seems to me that there are several new 
elements on the scene which provide an extra incentive 
for thoughtful persons to consider storing food. First, 
food shortages, both international and national, are 
increasing. As a result of continued population 
growth, crop failures caused by adverse climate con- 
ditions, a world-wide increase in protein consumption, 
exhaustion of food-producing ecosystems, the energy 
crisis, and insufficient fertilizer supplies, world food 
reserves have been drastically reduced. Global grain 
stocks fell to only about 100 million metric tons in 
1973, their lowest level in two decades. The world’s 
population increased by half in that same two decades. 
As Lester Brown of the Overseas Development Council 
points out in the just-published report, ‘’Agenda for 
Action 1974,” although 100 million tons may seem a 
tremendous amount of grain, ‘‘it represents a mere 
8 percent of annual world grain consumption, or 
less than one month’s needs——an uncomfortably 
small working reserve and a perilously thin buffer 
~ 
against the vagaries of weather and plant diseases.”’ 
On the national scene, processed vegetables and 
fruits are expected to be in such short supply this 
summer that grocery stocks will range from reduced 
variety and sizes to bare shelves. Heavy demand was 
put on canned goods last year by American shoppers 
trying to stretch their food budgets. At the same time, 
farmers were deciding they could make more money 
planting wheat instead of potatoes and feed corn for 
pigs instead of sweet corn for people. 
A spokesman 
for the National Canners Association told the Wall 
Street Journal recently that the carryover supply of 
canned goods by summer’s end ‘would amount to 
only a half-week’s supply of processed fruit and at 
most 1% weeks’ supply of vegetables.’’ Suppliers hav 
already begun to allocate some items to grocers, bas¢ 
on a percentage of what they bought last year. 
A second new inducement to food storage is the 
unprecedented inflation that is confounding 
economists and squeezing the budgets of Americans 
at almost all economic levels. Between January, 197 
and January, 1974, according to the Labor 
Department, retail food prices went up 19.5%. Cere!
and bakery products rose 28.7%; meats, poultry and 
fish went up 24.3%; dairy products, 22.8%; and frui 
and vegetables 14.7%. These increases occurred duri 
a year in which personal disposable income rose on! 
an average of 10.7%. The food crunch contributed t¢
a decline in average spendable weekly earnings in 
real terms of 1.4% for people outside the agriculture 
business (‘National Food Situation”, U.S. Departms 
of Agriculture, February 1974). 
The relatively bright picture in canned fruits and 
vegetables, as we have seen, is rapidly fading. When 
the processed products from this year’s crops reach 
the supermarkets in August and September, record 
price rises are expected. The latest prediction is that 
jumps of from 20% to 40% will occur. (For example 
peach growers are offering the current crop at $140 
a ton compared with last year’s average of $97.) 
Price increases during 1974 for all retail foods have 
been predicted variously by the USDA at 8%, 15%, 
and most recently at 12%. We can only hope this 
forecast is nowhere near as far off as the USDA was 
in 1973 (the final figure was triple their prediction) 
A final, and really influential impetus toward 
renewed concern for food storage, has to do with 
citizen perception of the state of the society. There 
is a new awareness of the fragility of the economic 
system, of its complexity and how little understand 
there is of how it really works. Old solutions are not 
working, old models are being discarded, and there 
are great gaps in the data needed to develop new 
policies. Out of the great oil debacle, and the 
government's inability to deal with inflation, has 
come a massive loss of citizen confidence in the 
future of the economy. The latest poll of consume: 
expectations by the University of Michigan’s survey 
center recorded the greatest pessimism in the center’ 
25-year history. Seventy-six percent of the 
respondents thought that the government will not 
be able to reduce inflation in the next couple of 
years. Furthermore, the psychological shock of the 
gasoline shortage will continue to reverberate for 
some time. The carry-over is clear: if it is indeed 
possible to drive up to a gas station and find no gas, 
then it is possible someday to drive up to a 
supermarket and find no food. Sources of supply an 
the distribution system are vulnerable to large-scale 
strikes, disruption of the transportation complex, 
|
energy cutbacks, failure to realize anticipated crops 
the vulnerability has been there some while. The 
difference is that now we know it. 
Embarking on a well thought out plan of food 
storage should serve to alleviate some of this prophe 
doom and gloom. There are positive aspects to 
setting food by! Naturally, there is a feeling of self- 
reliance and security that comes from preparedness, 
as well as the ability to assist family or friends in thé 
event of mutual emergency. There is also the 
potential for savings— the more food you buy now, 
the more you avoid inflationary price increases later 
You may, in addition, effect savings by quantity 
buying, either on your own or as part of a purchasi’ 
group. 
How then to begin? How much food? What kind 
of food? Canned, dehydrated, freeze-dried, bulk? Al 
what price? How packaged? Stored where? What 
about rotating foodstocks? What about water? One 
question leads to another and the complexities of t! 
whole storage project intimidate and defeat many 
people before they start. For others, an impulsive 
beginning may be made that results in wasted food 
and general frustration. | believe that the best meth 
is to approach the goal in stages that are related to 
the length of the emergency you decide to prepare 
for. 
