ith academic Abe and dense information. 
oe botanical systema tics anda 
The Botany and 
Chemistry of 
Hallucinogens 
Richard Evans Schultes 
and Albert Hofmann 
1973; 267pp 
$14. 75 postpaid 
from: 
Charles C. Thomas, Pub. 
301-327 East Lawrence Ave. 
Springfield, |L 62717 
or Whole Earth 
uctural similarity between the most important 
inogenic compounds of plant origin and neuro- 
ves which play an essential role in the biochemistry 
ch functions is probably not accidental: 
perhaps, 
explain the hallucinogenic activity by mutual 
on the active sites of the central nervous system. 
OH 
| 
CH:CI:NH: 
HO 
—CHCH:NH; 
HO. 
Norepinephrine 
‘ized especially by indescribably brilliant coloured 
n kaleidoscopic movement. These visual hallucina- 
‘tributed to mescaline, which is one of the many 
the plant, are often accompanied by auditory, 
fa ‘ory and tactile hallucinations. Sensations of 
lessness, macropsia, depersonalization, doubling of 
alteration or loss of time aca and other 
ed; mescaline applied orally or by injection is 
ed only experimentally and then produces the 
| 
of 
Beoueican 
descriptions of the visual 
B; 
ions found in reports of psychological experiments 
{ ott ts xperienced by native peyotists in their ceremonies. 
eresting that, once the hallucinogenic properties of 
ican morning glories became common knowledge, 
nge groups in European and American society 
nto ngest convolvulaceous seeds, mainly those of the 
al varieties of sundry morning glories, procuring 
lies chiefly from the 
Mastering Herbalism 
Looks like the one herb book to have instead of a Jot of 
others. Good for Huson: he evaluates in detail the service 
of twenty-four herb suppliers in the U.S. and United 
Kingdom. 
That thoroughness prevails throughout. 
—SB 
Mastering Herbalism 
Paul Huson 
1974; 371pp. 
$10.00 postpaid 
from: 
Stein and Day, Inc. 
Scarborough House 
Briarcliff Manor, NY 10510 
or Whole Earth 
Properties. Camomile contains, among other things, 
calcium, tannic acid, glucoside, and anthemic acid. 
It is 
used chiefly for aiding upset stomachs, as a tonic infusion, 
and as a gentle nervine. 
In older herbalists’ language, this 
means simply a medicine that acts on the nerves—— what 
today we would call a tranquilizer. 
It also happens to 
make a really delicious tea. 
How to Use It 
Camomile Tea: Infuse 1 ounce dried blossoms for 15 
minutes in 1 pint boiling water. 
For a single cup, infuse 
1 teaspoon flowers in 1 cup boiling water. Strain and 
flavor with honey if desired. 
Note: As the value of camomile rests chiefly in its volatile 
essential oil, always make sure the container in which you 
make your infusion i is covered while in use, not an open 
cup. 
Church of the Tree of Life 
A wonderful church dedicated to the preservation of the 
human imagination, the spiritual and totemic life of 
plants and the democracy of us as universal organic 
chemistry. The First Book of Sacraments /ists plants 
they have declared religious sacraments and therefore may 
be free from Federal narcotic laws (re: Navajo peyote). 
The Bark Leaf has up-to-date information on the status of 
plants and chemicals as free citizens in the USA. 
—PW 
KAVA (Piper methysticum) 
A sacrament for welcoming special guests and relaxing with 
friends and family. 
Other names: 
kava-kava, ava, ava-ava, kawa, kawa-kawa, awa, 
yaqona, yangona, wati, Rauschpfeffer, keu, macropepper. 
This perennial shrub of the Pepper family (Piperacae) grows 
throughout the South Pacific islands the Hawaiian Islands, 
and New Guinea. 
It grows between six and eight feet 
tall and is usually found both cultivated and growing wild 
in cool moist highlands up to 1000 feet above sea level. 
Although the leaves are used medicinally it is mainly culti- 
vated for the roots. From these a potent beverage may be 
Prepared. 
The active components in kava are six resinous alpha 
Field Guide to the Psilocybin Mushroom 
This pamphlet beautifully supplements, but does not 
replace, Leonard Enos’ A Key to the American 
Psilocybin Mushroom (Pg. 81). /t has sections on growing 
‘three common species (of the 15 found in the US) and 
an easy key to these three species. 
These species are 
predominantly found in the Southeast but can be found 
on manure in many 
other localities. See Pg. 475 for books 
on mushroom identification. 
—PW 
Field Guide to the 
Psilocybin Mushroom 
F. C. Ghouled 
1972 
$1 .25 Postpaid 
from: 
Guidance Publications 
PO Box 15667 
New Orleans, LA 
or Whole Earth 
World Wide Herbs Ltd. 
11 St. Catherine St. East 
Montreal 129, Canada 
~ World Wide’s catalog will come to you free on request, and 
contains the widest selection of dried herbs and spices | 
have yet to see. Also included on their list are all sorts of 
interesting no-no’s like henbane and real mandragore. 
| 
sent off for some, and amazingly received the mandragore, 
although the henbane never made it (| received a little 
credit note with “‘XXX stringent new U.S. Government 
Regulations now prohibit the exportation of poisonous 
herbs to the USA” stamped beside the henbane entry). 
Besides a variety of ginseng teas and roots, World Wide 
carries a fine selection of herbs and mordants for dyeing 
with, books, and last but certainly not least a long 
comprehensive list of essential oils. (You will have to 
request this when you write.) They carry such treasures 
as cedarleaf, cubeb, hemlock, myrtle, various nerolis, 
including the finest (at $1182.72 per pound, for those 
interested), petitgrain, real rose otto ($1360.15 per pound), 
a very reasonably priced rosemary, vetivert, and ylang ylang. 
Margaret Bruce 
Helmington Old Inn 
Hunwick Crook Co. 
Durham, England 
If you are into English witchery, then there is no way you 
can ignore Margaret Bruce. As a doyenne of the British 
occult scene, Miss Bruce’s name has long been a byword 
among Those Who Know. The selection of herbs, incenses, 
and gums she offers in her attractive catalog are nearly all 
angled toward the occult in one way or another, and 
they include just about everything that magical (Miss Bruce 
would spell it ‘‘magickal’’) practitioners could desire, from 
abramelin oil to rowan twigs (but, alas, no hemlock). She 
also offers over fifty old-time perfumes, which she blends 
herself from recipes dating back to the eighteenth 
century; among these are delicious and potent musk and 
civet scents of her own devising. As she includes dollar 
Prices alongside the English ones, she presumably exports 
to the United States. 
Miss Bruce claims her sachet herbs are culled at the 
correct planetary hour and lunar phase. Her catalog used 
to cost 3 shillings, and presumably now costs around 15 
pence of the new British money. 
QN
ST 
The First Book of 
Sacraments 
1972; 30pp. 
Bark Leaf 
quarterly bulletin 
Please donate generously 
Both from: 
Tree of Life Press 
451 Columbus Ave. 
San Francisco, CA 94133 
Kava (Piper methysticum) 
methysticin, yangonin, and dihydroyangonin. None of 
these is water-soluble except when emulsified. They are 
soluble in alcohol, oil, and other fat solvents. 
Pyrones: 
kawain, dihydrokawain, methysticin, dihydro- 
,
There are two major ethnic methods of kava preparation: 
The Fiji method and the Tonga method. The Fiji method 
is to crush the flesh inside the root bark and soak it in 
water for several hours until the infusion turns cloudy. 
This produces a pleasant beverage with excellent tonic 
and mild stimulant effects. The Tonga method requires that 
the root first be chewed before soaking in water. Saliva 
emulsifies the non-water-soluble pyrones so that they 
may be extracted into the water and assimilated into the 
drinker’s body. 
The result of this is a potent beverage which in small 
amounts produces a state of euphoria and in large amounts 
causes extreme relaxation, lethargy of lower limbs and 
eventually sleep. Since it depresses spinal rather than 
cerebral activity it does not impair mental alertness. One 
often has visual and auditory hallucinations. People under 
the influence of kava are usually cheerful and friendly. 
