y 
= 
4 
Alfred North Whitehead, The Free Press, 866 Third Avenue, :
New York, NY 10022; 1925; or Real Time. (P) $1.95, 212h 
The Macmillan Company, 866 Third Ave., New York, NY 
10022; or Real Time. (H) $6.95. 
5 
Science, aesthetics, ethics, and religion are the basic human 
interests that suggest cosmologies and are, in turn, in- 
— 
fluenced by them. This work is a broad outline of the past 
three centuries in terms of how the cosmology derived from 
| 
science has been asserting itself at the expense of older points 
of view with their origins elsewhere. Written in 1925, it is 
still up-to-date reading. 
teal Time 1 
Real Time 2 
; If 
you use the esoteric items in WHOLE EARTH’s 
Whole Systems and Communications Sections, you 
ought to get these two books by the author of By 
_ The Late John Brockman (Pg. 308) for further 
access-to-weirdness. 
They are CATALOG-like, 
_ astute, and since they were prepared during WHOLE 
EARTH'’s hiatus, | provided jacket copy for Real 
Time 2: “A guide to new ideas that might well 
_ save us from the old ideas.” 
—SB 
A clash of doctrines is not a disaster—— it isan opportunity, 
|
ig 
Real Time 1 
Real Time 2 
eS os of 
{A catalog of 
both from: 
Bending magnets in interior 
‘Importance depends on endurance. Endurance is the 
ideas an 
ideas and 
Anchor Press 
of Main Accelerator at 
retention through time of an achievement of value. What 
information) 
John Brockman and 
Edward Rosenfeld 
1973; 240pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
information) 
John Brockman and 
Edward Rosenfeld 
1973; 240pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
National Accelerator 
Laboratory. The Main 
Accelerator is four miles 
in circumference; 1.24 
miles in diameter. NAL 
e 
Photo, 
Doubleday & Co. Inc. 
501 Franklin Ave. 
Garden City, L.l. NY 
11530 
or Whole Earth 
endures is identity of pattern, self-inherited. Endurance 
requires the favourable environment. The whole of science 
revolves round this question of enduring organisms. 
background—— of bark 
or lichen, of grass or heather, of 
coral or seaweed, and thus, when motionless, become ex- 
tremely difficult to detect. 
Adaptive Coloration in Animals 
Any direction you turn, Cott has something to say 
about aesthetics, drawing, camouflage, advertising, 
shading, emotional expression and the history of 
animal perception. One of the great post-Darwin 
classics. Forms, patterns, rhythms, colors and 
sensuality—— common to us all. 
In-war, as in nature, such methods are especially applicable 
to fixed objects such as observation posts, or to those 
likely to be viewed against a typical configuration. Such 
colour-schemes differ from the disruptive type, in being 
realistic, or scenic, rather than abstract, or arbitrary. By 
their use it is possible, not merely to disguise an object's form, 
—PW 
but to obliterate the break which it causes in its background, 
and so to render it invisible. 
Adaptive Coloration 
in Animals 
Hugh B. Cott 
1959; 508pp. 
$21 .00 Postpaid 
from: 
Halsted Press 
John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 
One Wiley Dr. 
Somerset, NJ 08873 
or 
Western Distrib. Center 
1530 S. Redwood Rd. 
Salt Lake City, UT 84104 
or Whole Earth 
Diagrams illustrating the principle of maximum disruptive 
contrast, and showing the distractive effect upon the eye of 
patterns which contrast as violently as possible with the tone 
of their background. 
We have seen that in its crudest and most generalized con- 
dition a cryptic pattern serves to break up an animal’s form 
emotion, including those relating to threat and eliciting 
into a number of more or less contrasted patches of colour 
whose shapes are arbitrary. While the shapes of these patches 
entirely fail to suggest to the eye the form of the body on 
which they are superimposed, they do not necessarily 
suggest anything else in particular. As far as concealment 
is concerned, this probably does not much matter in very 
broken surroundings, so long as the shapes employed destroy 
_ the original form and outline without being in themselves 
unduly conspicuous. However, a further step towards in- 
visibility is taken when the disruptive design more or less 
closely resembles the particular environment against which 
it is normally seen—— as happens, for instance, in the case 
of many moths, birds and fishes. Such animals reproduce 
on their bodies a detailed picturing of the normal habitat- 
Sea Dragon (Phylloptéryx eques) 
Characters adapted primarily to arrest attention, including 
those subserving distant recognition and distance-warning, 
must be as conspicuous as possible; and they consist 
typically in nature of simple patterns and saturated 
colours, often covering a wide expanse of the body. Such 
are the white recognition marks conspicuously displayed in 
flight by Bramblings, Bullfinches, Jays, Wheaters, House- 
Martins, and many waders and other birds. 
On the other hand, visual characters adapted to stimulate 
fear, or those which arouse sexual emotion, are generally 
used at close quarters; and accordingly they tend, as 
compared with the last class, to be more complex in 
design, more elaborate in colour, and presented on a smaller 
scale suited to near vision. Moreover, unlike the simpler 
and generalized distance-recognition marks, they frequently 
embody special mimetic or symbolical effects suggestive 01 
objects significant to the observer; and they are commonly 
accompanied by special actions and attitudes. This is 
seen, for instance, in the repeated use by all kinds of 
animals of eye-spots, whether in courtship or rivalry, in” 
warning or bluffing; and in the sudden displays of concealed 
colours which transtorm an innocuous animal into an 
apparently dangerous enemy. 
Animal Forms and Patterns 
A philosophical relief from D’arcy Thompson (Pg. 14). 
No math. No schemata. Just a rambling discussion on 
how the appearance of animals gives clues to the 
internal mysteries. 
The best chapter covers molluscs 
—PW 
Animal Forms 
and Patterns 
Adolf Portmann 
1967; 257pp. 
$2.75 postpaid 
from: 
Schocken Books Inc. 
200 Madison Ave. 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
and their shells—— living molluscs, not Cartesian clams. 
aa 
UA 
4 3 'FG 
I 
4 
Formation of the face: almost expressionless or highly 
expressive, according to low or high level of differentiation 
(sea-cat and young lion). 
~ The way the tail is held, raising the hair on the back or 
flattening it, the position of the ears, as well as the whole 
posture of the body, play a large part in the social life of 
wolves, and are understood by their companions to be a 
manifestation of internal conditions. The wolf to the left 
ranks high in the social structure of the group, the other’ 
ranks below it. (The illustration does not, however, 
represent a ‘scene’, but merely two postures.) At the same 
time the special form production at the anal pole is made 
clear. 
— 
