ok Fin the most applicable. 
goa 
—SB 
- The Social Contract 
Robert Ardrey 
1970; 405pp. 
$2.36 postpaid 
from: 
| 
¥ 
‘Lucas Book Co. 
_ 2430 Bancroft Way 
_ Berkeley, CA 94704 
_ or Whole Earth 
‘society as a playing field governed as in any 
tb 
Is and rules may seem of less compelling 
the individual than the functions of defense and 
— 
n. 
ese are the rules that protect him from 
red 
ons 
of his fellows, as concerted defense protects 
om 
the Predations 
of others. And there is more 
an hat. Perhaps we might resurrect a hypothesis of 
nborn needs for three satisfactions: 
identity, 
ition, and security. | described them in terms of 
opposites: 
anonymity, boredom, and anxiety. They 
in hierarchy, since the need of the female for 
ity 
must quite apparently be greater than in the male. 
ment 
and experience of the individual must 
varying degrees of this need or that. To 
legree, however, security ranks lowest among 
he more thoroughly we achieve it, the 
I 
lO we sacrifice it for stimulation. So long 
na milieu 
of material deprivation, the illusion 
aramount will enclose us; and many an 
hilosophy has so been written. But let 
ls 
m 
of affluence replace deprivation’s demands, 
will give way to boredom, a condition to be 
ing as the low rank of security in the 
ed is the high place of identity. To know 
; to achieve identification in the eyes of your 
sense a fulfillment of the uniqueness 
uth was once yours as a fertilized egg: 
| submit 
mate motive. How many people do you 
en the choice between fame and fortune, 
ame? Only when we encounter and 
the ultimate frustration, anonymity, do we turn 
A ate of basic needs to the search for mere 
on, 
j 
i$ we turn up the steps to search for it 
y satisfied, we encounter boredom. 
ill 
sean 
ulation 
could survive without sufficient 
ufficiently aggressive, so no population could 
vere 
competitions customarily carried to 
eci: 
And so has evolved throughout the 
‘body 
of rules and regulations of infinite 
ich, 
while encouraging the aggressive, discourages 
roblem of man is not that we are 
break the rules. 
May 
5 
5 
4 
~ 
we may calculate 
as a group of nine, ten, 
dult and sub-adult males, supporting a> 
group vanished into dust; that little group 
What was the distinction? Social order, | 
the African Pliocene as ramapithecines, 
mprovement was the major 
as 
rather our social capacity 
i 
zi 
_ Huizinga contends that civilization owes its 
existence to the play element—— to special rituals 
apart from the daily grind which are joyful, 
contained in time, space, and rule structure, un- 
certain in outcome, requiring of fair play, 
participated in by all. To the roster of convivial 
tools that Ivan I/lich fosters | would add widespread 
renewal of convivial gaming—— play rituals at 
every level from family to planet. 
The more 
frivolous, the more essential to homo /udens. 
—SB 
Homo Ludens 
(A Study of the Play 
Element in Culture) 
Johan Huizinga 
1950; 220pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
Beacon Press 
25 Beacon St. 
Boston, MA 02108 
or Whole Earth 
All play moves and has its being within a playground marked 
off beforehand either materially or ideally, deliberately 
or as a matter of course. Just as there is no formal 
difference between play and ritual, so the “‘consecrated spot’ 
cannot be formally distinguished from the play-ground. 
The arena, the card-table, the magic circle, the temple, 
the stage, the screen, the tennis court, the court of 
justice, etc., are all in form and function play-grounds, 
ie. forbidden spots, isolated, hedged round, hallowed, 
within the ordinary world, dedicated to the performance of 
an act apart. 
Inside the play-ground an 
absolute and peculiar order 
reigns. Here we come across another, very positive feature 
of play: 
it creates order, is order. 
Into an imperfect world 
and into the confusion of life it brings a temporary, a 
limited perfection. 
e 
Archaic society, we would say, plays as the child or animal 
plays. Such playing contains at the outset all the elements 
Proper to play: order, tension, movement, change, 
solemnity, rhythm, rapture. 
When an Eskimo has a complaint to make against another he 
challenges him to a drumming-contest (Danish: Trommesang). 
The clan or tribe thereupon gathers at a festal meeting, all 
in their finest attire and in joyful mood. The two contestants 
then attack one another in turn with opprobrious songs to 
the accompaniment of a drum, each reproaching the other 
with his misdemeanours. No distinction is made between 
well-founded accusations, satirical remarks calculated to 
tickle the audience, and pure slander. For instance one 
singer enumerated all the people who had been eaten by his 
opponent's wife and mother-in-law during a famine, which 
~ 
caused the assembled company to burst into tears. This 
offensive chanting is accompanied throughout by all kinds 
of physical indignities directed against your opponent, such 
as breathing and snorting into his face, bumping him with 
your forehead, prizing his jaws open, tying him to a tent- 
pole—— all of which the ‘‘accused” has to bear with 
equanimity 
and a mocking laugh. Most of the spectators 
join in the refrains of the song, applauding and egging 
the parties on. Others just sit there and go 
to sleep. 
During the pauses the contestants converse in friendly 
terms. The sessions of such a contest may extend over a 
period of years, during which the parties think up new 
- songs and new misdeeds to denounce. 
Finally the spectators 
decide who the winner is. In most cases friendship is 
immediately re-established, but it sometimes happens that 
a family emigrates from shame at having been defeated. A 
Person may have several drumming-matches running at the 
same time. Women too can take part. 
According to Granet’s sketch of Chinese warfare in what 
he calls the feudal age, there can be no talk of victory 
unless the prince’s honour emerges with enhanced splendour 
from the field of battle. This is not procured by gaining 
the advantage, still less by using it to the utmost, but by 
showing moderation. 
Real civilization cannot exist in the absence of a certain 
play-element, for civilization presupposes limitation and 
mastery of the self, the ability not to confuse its own 
tendencies with the ultimate and highest goal, but to 
- understand that it is enclosed within certain bounds 
freely accepted. Civilization will, ina sense, always be 
played according to certain rules, and true civilization 
will always demand fair play. Fair play is nothing less 
than good faith expressed in play terms. Hence the cheat 
or the spoil-sport shatters civilization itself. To be a sound 
culture-creating force this play-element must be pure. 
It 
must not consist in the darkening or debasing of standards 
set up by reason, faith or humanity. 
It must not bea 
false seeming, a masking of political purposes behind the 
illusion of genuine play-forms. True play knows no 
Propaganda; its aim is in itself, and its familiar spirit is 
happy inspiration. 
. The. Causes of War © 
Nuclear proliferation is at hand—— many small 
nations with short-term governments with little 
to lose... and the Bomb. All the more reason to 
take a searching nonrhetorical look at war, wars, 
and try to discern what sense they operate by. 
Geoffrey Blainey has investigated every international 
war since 1700. His conclusions are fine hard 
aphorisms that can be navigated by. 
5 
— 
—SB 
The Causes of War 
Geoffrey Blainey 
1973; 278pp. 
$7.95 postpaid 
from: 
Macmillan Publishing Co., inc. 
Order Dept. 
Front and Brown Sts. 
Riverside (Burlington Co.) 
NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth 
11. Wars usually begin when two nations disagree on their 
relative strength, and wars usually cease when the fighting 
nations agree on their relative strength. Agreement or dis- 
agreement emerges from the shuffling of the same set of 
factors. Thus each factor is capable of promoting war or 
Peace. 
12. A change in one factor—— the defection of an ally or 
the eruption of strife in the land of the enemy—— may 
dramatically alter a nation’s assessment of its bargaining 
position. 
In the short term that factor could wield an 
influence which seems irrationally large. 
13. When nations prepare to fight one another, they have 
contradictory expectations of the likely duration and out- 
come of the war. When those predictions, however, cease 
to be contradictory, the war is almost certain to end. 
14. Any factor which increases the likelihood that nations 
will agree on their relative power is a potential cause of 
Peace. One powerful cause of peace is a decisive war, 
for war provides the most widely-accepted measure of 
power. 
15. Even a decisive war cannot have permanent influence, 
for victory is invariably a wasting asset. 
16. A formula for measuring international power is 
essential: 
ironically the most useful formula is warfare. 
Until the function of warfare is appreciated, the search 
for a more humane and more efficient way of measuring 
Power is likely to be haphazard. 
26. The evidence of past wars does not support the 
respectable theory that an uneven ‘balance’ of power tends 
to promote war. 
If the theory is turned upside down, 
however, it has some validity. 
27. The evidence of past wars does not support the scape- 
goat theory and its assumption that rulers facing internal 
troubles often started a foreign war in the hope that a 
victory would promote peace at home. 
28. The evidence of past wars does not support the ‘one 
pair of hands’ theory of war: 
the belief that a nation 
busily making money will have no spare energy or time 
for the making of war. 
A Continuous Harmony 
There are voices | am glad to hear talking on any subject 
whatever. 
Wendell Berry is one, talking in this book of 
nature poetry, his farm in Kentucky, regionalism, strip 
mining, discipline, and hope. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Ed Abbey] 
A Continuous Harmony 
(Essays Cultural and 
Agricultural) 
Wendell Berry 
1970,1972; 182pp. 
Continuees 
$5.95 postpaid 
plarmony 
from: 
aes 
Harcourt Brace & 
Wendell 
perry 
Jovanovich, Inc. 
757 Third Avenue 
New York, NY 10017 
or Whole Earth 
| begin with the assumption that perhaps the great disaster 
of human history is one that happened to or within 
religion: that is, the conceptual division between the holy 
and the world, the excerpting of the Creator from the 
creation. Collis is worth quoting again in this connection; 
though perhaps 
it may be argued that he is wrong about the 
cause, | think he is correct in his description of what 
happened: 
. 
... whereas under polytheism the gods were intimately 
connected with the earth, and stimulated veneration 
for it, under monotheism deity was extracted from the 
earth. God was promoted to higher regions. He went 
completely out of sight. It became possible to fear God 
without fearing Nature— nay, to love God (whatever 
was meant) and to hate his creations. 
SIA
 ‘SP
