; WHILE YOU'RE UP, GET ME A GRANT 
oe" 
by Doris Herrick 
days of “while you're up, get me a grant” (if they ever 
existed), are long gone. Competition is stiffer for project 
_ funding from government agencies, foundations, and corporate 
__ & individual donors, as more community groups get grant- 
_ wise. 
If you want to take your shiny program idea into this 
elee, there are two sorts of tools you need. One is an over- 
ew of the fund-raising scene: 
strategies and approaches, 
Categories of fund sources, proposal preparation, issues of 
legal status and financial accounting. A good resource is: 
__ 
The Bread Game (1973; rev. ed., 96pp., $3.45, Glide 
Publications, 330 Ellis St., San Francisco, CA 94102, or 
Whole Earth). An out-front account of how cha nge-type 
groups, without losing their virtue, can unload some goodies 
from the establishment bread-truck. 
Deals primarily with 
foundations. 
There is another reference that | hesitate to recommend only 
__ 
because of its price. 
If your group or agency can afford the 
investment, or if you can get your local library to stock it, 
~ consult: 
The Fund Raiser’s Tool Box (Gary Messinger Ray 
Feldman, and Robert Wellington; 1973; 169pp., $14.95, 
Strategists, Inc., 538 Abrego St., Monterrey, CA 93940, 
or Whole Earth). A more comprehensive 
look at fund sources: 
federal, foundation, corporate and individual, as well as advice 
_ 
On organizing community fund drives. 
Lots of good 
references to other information. 
_ The second tool you need is a detailed rundown of where the 
available monies are: what foundations give for what 
purposes, what government grants programs are current, and 
specifics about how a particular foundation or agency should 
_ be applied to. Your local library should have a copy of the 
“basic book” on foundations: 
The Foundation Directory (Prepared by the Foundation 
Center; 4th ed., 1971, $15.00, Columbia University Press, 
Stock Dept., Irvington-on-Hudson NY 10533 or Whole 
Earth). 
They may subscribe to: 
Foundation News - a bimonthly journal containing an 
index of recent foundation grants over $5,000 (also published 
by the Foundation Center, at $1 0.00 Per year). 
If your group will be doing ongoing fund-raising, you might 
invest in these resources for your operation, as well as in the 
manual of government grant programs: 
Catalog 
of Federal Domestic Assistance (Superintendenr 
of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, 
DC 20402, $7.00 plus $2.00 for binder). 
These sources, however, give you only a broad-brush picture 
of where the money is. For in-depth detail, you need access 
~ to data compiled by one of the professional information. 
services, such as: 
Taft Information System. Taft Products, Inc., 1000 
Vermont Ave., NW, Washington, DC 20005. 
One year, 
$250.00. 
Includes: “Foundation Reporter’, ““News 
Monitor of Philanthropy,” detailed listing of foundation 
interests, background of directors, sample grants, specifics 
for application. 
Fund Sources Clearinghouse, Inc. 116 South Michigan 
Ave., Chicago, |L 60603, and 760 Market Street, Suite 1000, 
San Francisco, CA 94102. One year, $250.00. 
Includes 
Grants Daily Monitor, profile of foundation officers, 
reference services and “how-to” guides. 
These provide invaluable info, but the expense is prohibitive 
for most community groups. 
| suggest that you lean on the 
larger institutions in your area (colleges, universities, 
hospitals, research and service centers) that do big time 
fund-raising and have these materials on hand. There is no 
reason, if your project is not in competition with their 
Purpose, that they shouldn’t—— at their convenience—— 
make their resources available to local groups. Pressure 
them also to sponsor a Saturday seminar in fund-raising 
techniques. They will make points (probably needed 
ones) with the community. 
In turn, this aids them in 
Presenting their case, as ‘‘involved institutions,” to grant 
donors. Explore public service organizations in your area 
(like Pacific Change in San Francisco), that give information 
and advice to grant seekers—— they can be of great help in 
Pointing you in the right direction. 
BEST BUY: 
For $15.00, the Foundation Center will provide 
you a print-out of a computer search of their grants data 
banks, custom tailored to the area of your project (i.e., day 
care center, drug abuse, housing rights), arranged by foundation 
name, amount, or geographic location of recipient. (Foundation 
Center, 888 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10019/ 
Telephone: (212) 489-8610). . 
SS 
a 
a 
a 
ES 
The Seven Laws of Money 
My employer, the President of POINT, cheerfully 
discounting most of what you may have believed 
about money, especially that vicious form of it which 
we call “free money’’—— foundation money. Mike 
Phillips has the experience, being a former bank VP, 
The Seven Laws of Money 
Michael Phillips 
1974; 194pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
World Wheel/_ 
Random House 
457 Hahn Rd. 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
PUGT 
Wrcivsnperans 
crcmaig 
canoe 
eS 
Ske 
Where the Money Is & How to Get It 
Methods of raising capital. Accurate, simple, clear, 
short and precise as opposed to bright, wise, sensitive, 
comprehensive. Expensive, but most public libraries 
should get a copy. 
—Michael Phillips 
A big mistake often made by entrepreneurs whose venture 
fails is to start off under-capitalized. 
_ To figure your start-up costs, estimate all expenses. Add up 
all disasters that are likely to happen—— because they will. 
Then double it. This is how much capital you should have. 
In your planning, forget any grandiose ideas about your 
“image.’’ Expensive facilities or fringe benefits for employees 
will cause you to go broke before you start. 
Keep your operating expenses to a minimum. Use your home 
for an office. If you must, rent a small, inexpensive office. 
Furnish it second-hand. Do not put in executive benefits and 
: 
other frills. You must be willing to postpone rewards until 
the company is a success. 
; 
_ Cut every corner you can. Order a small quantity of stationery 
ype letters yourself at first. Buy supplies in small quantities. 
+ 
- 
7 
oar 
oe 
Ss 
ee 
ee ne ae 
ee 
Oo EE le 
= 
ee 
ee 
ae ae oe 
eee 
the financial wizard for Glide Foundation, and 
head wagoneer for our anti-foundation (he’s about 
to be fired: we all are; our three years are up). 
Mike Phillips’ review for Where the Money Is 
(adjoining) may be exactly reversed for his book. 
It’s irrational, self-indulgent, anecdotal, and it works. 
—SB 
THE FIRST LAW 
. 
Do it! Money Will Come When You Are Doing the 
Right Thing 
THE SECOND LAW 
Money Has its Own Rules: 
Records, Budgets, Saving, 
Borrowing 
THE THIRD LAW 
Money is a Dream: A Fantasy As Alluring As the 
Pied Piper 
THE FOURTH LAW 
Money is a Nightmare: 
In Jail, Robbery, Fears of 
Poverty 
THE FIFTH LAW 
You Can Never Really Give Money Away 
THE SIXTH LAW 
You Can Never Really Receive Money As A Gift 
THE SEVENTH LAW 
There Are Worlds Without Money 
Where the Money Is 
& How to Get It 
Ted Nicholas 
1973; 214pp. 
$10.45 postpaid 
from: 
Enterprise Publishing 
Co., Inc. 
- 
1000 Oakfield Lane, 
Dept. C 
Wilmington, DE 19810 
or Whole Earth 
Find the least expensive way to test your product or service. 
Work on methods of selling your product or service. 
Hire no employees. Enter into contracts for all services the 
-“- 
ap 
- 
= 
aren 
tt 
ad Game rg 
be TAS 
Sang 
If you’re raising money from foundations, this blu 
little book is indispensable. 
I’ve been on both sides 
of the breadline enough to cherish its succinct can 
in the bullfart atmosphere of granting. 
—SB 
The Bread Game 
(Revised Edition) 
(The Realities of 
Foundation Fundraising) 
1973; 96pp. 
: 
$3.45 Postpaid 
from: 
Glide Publications 
330 Ellis St. 
San Francisco, CA 94102 
or Whole Earth 
See 
2S 
2) 
ee 
ALITIES 
{ 
THE Hp ATiO’ 6 
OF AMUSE 
Wealthy Individuals. Many wealthy individuals do not hay 
foundations of their own, but often make tax-deductible 
contributions to projects. There are all sorts of weird way. 
of finding these people: contribution reports of liberal 
political candidates, society pages of newspapers, friends 4 
relatives, etc. They can be an excellent source of funds: 
{ 
because you don’t have to go through a bureaucracy to co 
them; second, because they need the contact from non-we; 
people. Before you approach them, have everything toget 
to make it easy for them to make a tax-deductible contri- 
bution to your group. Read carefully the legal and fiscal 
sponsor material in this book! 
e 
Do It Right the First Time 
The importance of good accounting procedures for 
all organizations cannot be overstated. Too many groups 
tend to feel that anyone can keep a set of books. 
Don’t 
be sucked into this attitude—— it can be your undoing. 
Keep good records from the beginning. Ask the help of a 
good accountant to at least get the books set up in good or 
Even though you may write your own checks, make all yo! 
own deposits and do your own posting. Check back with 
your accountant every three months so that your books ca 
be reviewed and checked over for accuracy. A good set of 
books will go a long way toward convincing foundations a 
other contributors that you are a responsible group. 
Money, which represents the prose of life, and which is 
hardly spoken of in parlors without an apology, is in its 
effects and laws, as beautiful as roses. 
—Ralph Waldo Emerson 
When you open a checking account, open it with the large 
amount of money you possibly can. 
I’m not kidding! 
Evg 
if the average balance in your account is only going to be § 
try to borrow friend’s $10,000 (home down payment) {¢ 
one day so you can use it to open your account. You don| 
have to go that far, but anything over a couple of thousan¢ 
dollars looks good. You can withdraw most of the money 
a few days after the account is opened. Really! The reaso 
for this is that the bank records your opening balance on 
your signature card (and often in other places, too), believ 
that it is representative of your financial status. 
| did a stu 
when | was a banker and found absolutely no correlation 
between opening balances and the kind of balances that 
appeared later on in the same account. 
It’s such a strong 
tradition to do it this way (at least a hundred years old) 
that bankers still judge people by their opening balance. 
Try it; the branch manager will smile on you forever more. 
When you’re asleep and dreaming, that’s a world without 
money. 
business requires. Pay people for what they do for you oné 
results basis, i.e., pay a typist a fixed rate per page. You wi 
find people will perform happily and efficiently for you w 
they are as motivated as you are to get a job done quickly. 
You will also attract more capable, independent people. 
Hourly and salaried workers tend to do just enough not to 
get fired. Employers pay them just enough so they won't 
quit. 
Do not incur a weekly fixed payroll overhead nor become 
an unpaid tax collector for the government by having the 
recordkeeping expense of Federal, state and city taxes of 
various kinds. You can't afford it. 
A quick way to kill a venture capitalist’s interest is paying 
yourself a higher salary than your former job or by 
establishing company headquarters in, for example, an 
attractive tropical place without a sound business reason. 
If you are a Vietnam veteran you may qualify for an Econo 
Opportunity loan of up to $50,000 at low interest. 
Repayments can be as long as 15 years. This type 
of loan ¢ 
be used to go into business for yourself. You must have bef 
on full-time active duty since August 5, 1964. You need no 
have been in Vietnam and must have an honorable or 
general discharge. 
me 
: 
ae 
WS 
