-Steps to an Ecology of Mind 
Where the insights of Buckminster Fuller initiated 
the Whole Earth Catalog, Gregory Bateson’s insights” 
lurk behind most of what’s going on in this Epilog 
Through him | became convinced that much more 
of whole systems could be understood than | thought, 
and that much more existed wholesomely beyond 
understanding than | thought—— that mysticism, 
mood, ignorance, and paradox could be rigorous, 
for instance, and that the most potent too/ for 
grasping these essences—— these influence nets—— 
is cybernetics. 
Bateson is responsible for a number of formal 
discoveries, most notably the “Double Bind” 
theory of schizophrenia. As an anthropologist 
he did pioneer work in New Guinea and (with 
Margaret Mead) in Bali. He participated in the 
Macy Foundation meetings that founded the 
science of cybernetics but kept a healthy distance 
from computers. He has wandered thornily in and 
out of various disciplines—— biology, ethnology, 
linguistics, epistemology, psychotherapy—— and 
left each of them altered with his passage. 
This book chronicles the journey. 
It is a collection 
of all his major papers, 1935-1971. 
In recommending 
the book I’ve learned to suggest that it be read 
backwards. Read the recent broad analyses of 
mind and ecology at the end of the book and then 
work back to see where the premises come from. 
In my view Bateson’s special contribution to cyber- 
netics is in exploring its second, more difficult 
realm (where the first is feedback, a process 
influencing itself, what Bateson calls “circuit”; and 
the second is the meta-realm of hierarchic levels, 
the domain of context, of paradox and abundant 
pathology, and of learning.) 
Strong medicine. 
—SB 
Steps to an Ecology of Mind 
Gregory Bateson 
1972; 517pp 
$1 95 postpaid 
from: 
Ballantine Books, Inc. 
201 E. 50th St. 
New York, NY 10022 
or Whole Earth 
No organism can afford to be conscious of matters with 
which it could deal at unconscious levels. 
Mere purposive rationality unaided by such phenomena as 
art, religion, dream, and the like, is necessarily pathogenic 
and destructive of life; its virulence springs specifically 
from the circumstance that life depends upon interlocking 
circuits of contingency, while consciousness can only see 
such short arcs as human purpose may direct. 
The social scene is nowadays characterized by the existence 
of a large number of self-maximizing entities which, in law, 
have something like the status of ‘persons’—— trusts, 
companies, political parties, unions, commerical and 
financial agencies, nations, and the like. In biological fact, 
these entities are precisely nor persons and are not even 
aggregates of whole persons. They are aggregates of parts 
of persons. 
e 
They say that power corrupts; but this, | suspect, is 
nonsense. What is true is that the idea of power corrupts. 
e 
(My father, the geneticist William Bateson, used to read us 
Passages of the Bible at breakfast—— lest we grow up to be 
empty-headed atheists.) 
In no system which shows mental characteristics can any 
Part have unilateral control over the whole. 
In other words, 
the mental characteristics of the system are immanent, not 
in.some part, but in the system asa whole. 
e 
The Theology of Alcoholics Anonymous 
Some outstanding points of the theology of AA are: 
(i) There is a Power greater than the self. Cybernetics 
would go somewhat further and recognize that the ‘‘self”’ 
as ordinarily understood is only a small part of a much larger 
Gregory Bateson 
trial-and-error system which does the thinking, acting, and 
deciding. This system includes all the informational path- 
ways, which are relevant at any given moment to any 
given decision. The “‘self’’ is a false reification of an 
improperly delimited part of this much larger field of 
interlocking processes. 
But what about “‘me’’? Suppose | am a blind man, and 
| use a stick. 
| go tap, tap, tap. Where do / start? 
Is my 
mental system bounded at the handle of the stick? 
Is it 
bounded by my skin? Does it start halfway up the 
stick? Does it start at the tip of the stick? But these are 
nonsense questions. The stick isa pathway along which 
transforms of difference are being transmitted. The way 
to delineate the system is to draw the limiting line in 
such a way that you do not cut any of these pathways in 
ways which leave things inexplicable. 
If what you are 
trying to explain is a given piece of behavior, such as the 
locomotion.of the blind man, then, for this purpose, you 
will need the street, the stick, the man; the street, the 
stick, and so on, round and round. 
If you put God outside and set him vis-a-vis his creation and 
if you have the idea that you are created in his image, you 
will logically and naturally see yourself as outside and 
against the things around you. And as you arrogate all 
mind to yourself, you will see the world around you as 
mindless and therefore not entitled to moral or ethical 
consideration. The environment will seem to be yours 
to exploit. Your survival unit will be you and your folks 
or conspecifics against the environment of other social 
units, other races and the brutes and vegetables. 
If this is your estimate of your relation to nature and you 
have an advanced technology, your likelihood of survival 
will be that of a snowball in hell. You will die either of 
the toxic by-products of your own hate, or simply, of over- 
population and overgrazing. The raw materials of the 
world are finite. 
When you narrow down your epistemology and act on 
the premise ‘What interests me is me, or my organization, 
or my species,’’ you chop off consideration of other loops 
of the loop structure. You decide that you want to get 
rid of the by-products of human life and that Lake Erie 
will be a good place to put them. You forget that the eco- 
mental system called Lake Erie is a part of your wider eco- 
mental system—— and that if Lake Erie is driven insane, its 
insanity is incorporated in the larger system of your thought 
and experience. 
It is rather unusual to find that any feature of a biological 
system is at all directly determined by the need which it 
fulfills. Eating is governed by appetite, habit, and social 
convention rather than by hunger, and respiration is 
governed by CO> excess rather than by oxygen lack. And 
soon. 
In contrast, the products of human planners and engineers 
are constructed to meet specified needs in a much more 
direct manner, and are correspondingly less viable. The 
multiple causes of eating are likely to ensure the performance 
of this necessary act under a large variety of circumstances 
CYBERNETICS 
453 
and stresses whereas, if eating were controlled only by hypo- 
glycaemia, any disturbance of the single pathway of contro! 
would result in death. Essential biological functions are not 
controlled by lethal variables, and planners will do well to 
note this fact. 
D: What is a cliche’, Daddy? 
F: Aclichd? 
It’s a French word, and | think it was 
originally a printer’s word. When they print a sentence 
they have to take the separate letters and put them one by 
one into a sort of grooved stick to spell out the sentence. 
But for words and sentences which people use often, the 
printer keeps little sticks of letters ready made up. And 
these ready-made sentences are called cliches. 
F: Let’s go back to the question which you asked and 
which | said was too difficult to answer today. We were 
talking about the printer breaking up his clichés, and you 
said that he would still keep some sort of order among 
his letters—— to keep from going mad. And then you 
asked ‘What sort of order should we cling to so that when 
we get into a muddle we do not go mad?” 
It seems to me 
that the “rules” of the game is only another name for that 
sort of order. 
D: Yes—— and cheating is what gets us into muddles. 
F: Inasense, yes, That’s right. Except that the whole 
point of the game is that we do get into muddles, and 
do come out on the other side, and if there were no 
muddles our “game” would be like canasta or chess—— 
and that is not how we want it to be. 
D: 
\s it you that make the rules, Daddy? 
Is that fair? 
F: That, daughter, isa dirty crack. And probably an 
unfair one. But let me accept it at face value. Yes, it is 
{| who make the rules—— after all, | do not want-us to go 
mad. 
D: Allright. But, Daddy, do you also change the rules? 
Sometimes? 
F: Hmm, another dirty crack. Yes, daughter, | change them 
constantly. Not all of them, but some of them. 
D: 
| wish you'd tell me when you're going to change 
them! 
F: Hmm-—-— yes—— again. 
| wish | could. But it isn’t like 
that. 
If it were like chess or canasta, | could tell you the 
rules, and we could, if we wanted to, stop playing and discuss 
the rules. And then we could start a new game with the 
new rules. But what rules would hold us between the two 
games? While we were discussing the rules? 
D: 
| don’t understand. 
F: Yes. The point is that the purpose of these conversations 
is to discover the “‘rules.’’ 
It’s like life—— a game whose 
purpose is to discover the rules, which rules are always 
changing and always undiscoverable. 
D: But | don’t call that a game, Daddy. 
F: Perhaps not. 
| would call it a game, or at any rate 
“play.'’ But it certainly is not like chess or cenasta. 
It’s 
more like what kittens and puppies do. Perhaps. 
| don't 
know. 
eae 
D: Daddy, why do kittens and puppies play? 
F: 
| don't know—— | don’t know. 
A Third Chameleon-hypothesis 
“What color is a chameleon on a mirror?” 
/ asked the question of Gregory Bateson at a point in our 
interview when we were /ost in contemplation of the func- 
tion, if any, of consciousness—— self-consciousness. 
Both 
of us being biologists, we-swerved to follow the elusive 
chameleon. 
Gregory asserted that the creature would 
settle at a middle value in its color range. 
| insisted that the 
poor beast trying to disappear in a universe of itself would 
endlessly cycle through a number of its disguises. 
Now hear the hypothesis of Gerald Hall, student of Gregory’s 
at Santa Cruz, author of the following book review, and pro- 
ponent of G. Spencer Brown’s Laws of Form (which denotes 
but two basic systems—— ones which remember and ones 
which oscillate): 
“The chameleon will stay whatever color he was at the 
moment he entered the mirror domain.” 
—SB 
SVWT
SIIO
