I Krassner is Editor and Zen Bastard 
of The Realist 
pie 
Conspirator in Ten Easy Years ($7)—— both 
lable from The Realist, Main PO Box 4027, San 
incisco, Calif. 94101. 
STAR 
: 
TONGUE FU MEETS GOD 
Unscrewing the Oriental head of the jack-in-the-box in 
I Ching, Tongue Fu removes the Patoonga peyote button 
atched from the hand of Say When Daddy. 
e lets it dissolve in his mouth while he sits prayerfully 
. Then he puts an album, Monterey Hit List, on the 
Too Long; Janis Joplin do Bobby McGee; Jimi Hendrix do 
_ 
The Star-Spangled Banner. 
Tongue Fu sings along with the national anthem— but 
cs from the previous song— ‘Freedoms just another 
turns on the television, channel selector in hand. 
~ 
Click! 
ventriloquist is performing without a dummy by 
g, “brought to you by the makers of Wonder Bread 
mburger Helper. Tonight, John-boy thinks he may be 
rvoyant when he has a dream about a nuclear power 
eing constructed on the farm— 
2 
Kk! 
; 
I g as he taps his foot in rhythm with his speech. ‘’Can 
you near me up there? How does it feel knowing you'll 
never set foot on’earth again?” 
z 
=¢ 
7 
- 
“One nation under Me,” a drag queen wearing bright 
pstick and rouge with matching fright wig is 
“with barbituates and amphetamines for all.” 
its at a dressing table playing Monopoly with her 
age, from which she now turns away. 
AX 
ear) and author of How a Satirical Editor Became a 
“Oh, there you are, Tongue Fu, I’ve been waiting for 
you.” 
“Who are you?” 
“I'm God, you silly asshole.” She has the voice of Don 
Rickles. 
“Have we not met before? You look— familiar.” 
“Yeah, and | breed contempt. Listen, you dumb freak, 
you've gotta stop feeling so goddam sorry for yourself. | 
mean it was okay for you to get stoned and watch the news 
and be really high when the body count came on with 
thousands of war dead— oh, where the devil is my Alice 
Cooper album?— but now you're so selfish to make such 
a big deal out of one single person you happened to meet. 
And you've never even looked at that last film of her, that’s 
how much you care.” 
““It wouid be too painful.” 
“1 ook, dummy, you wanna experience Heaven or Hell 
while you're still alive, correct-o? Well, the cocksuckin’ 
truth transcends 
‘em both. | mean I’Il teil you something 
that'll blow your mind, There’s an interview coming up that 
Cronkite will do with William O. Douglas, the Supreme 
Court Justice, y'know, and he’s gonna tell how Franklin 
D. Roosevelt wanted him for Vice-President, with good ol’ 
Harry Truman as second choice, only some political hack 
in Missouri reversed the names on the list ‘cause Harry was 
a local boy, and Douglas is gonna say that if he had become 
President when Roosevelt died, he wouldn’‘t’ve dropped the 
atomic bombs on Japan. How’s that grab ya? 
“But if you are God, why would you permit such a thing 
to happen?” 
“That's easy, sonny. Because I’m a fuckin’ racist.... 
‘ 
Flashiebackie: 
, 
r 
“I'm not a racist,” 
a man on TV Ching is saying. He is 
Doctor Shocktreat, winner of the Ignobel Prize with four 
other scientists for inventing the disposable contact lens. 
If 
he were to put on bright green lipstick and rouge with 
matching fright wig, he could play God perfectly. 
“"\ merely contend as a genetic premise,” he continues, 
“that non-Aryans are born with less consciousness than 
Aryans. Oh, yes, | know how controversial it is to insist 
that consciousness is hereditary. but unless we’re willing to 
lose the human race, compulsory sterilization is the final 
solution to the consciousness problem. 
“With so many gurus here at Camp Crap who are of other 
than Aryan background, I can only say that despite their 
outward manifestations of higher consciousness, they have 
consistently achieved lower scores on the CQ Tests we've 
devised.... “” 
Tongue Fu has shut off the television and set up the 
motion picture projector. 
Rosebud Zwalyimeh and Tongue Fu are kissing and 
undressing each other on Coincidence Cliff. 
“| will respect your wish,” he promises, ““and never say— 
| love you— but | will always be thinking it.” 
Now he is performing cunnilingus upon her. 
Tiptoeing up from behind him is Serpento. 
Rosebud sees Serpento and her body twitches. 
“You sexist pig,” she says. 
Serpento hits Tongue Fu on top of his head with a rock. 
Then he does the same to Rosebud. 
He pulls Tongue Fu’s tongue out of Rosebud’s body, 
drags them one at a time to the edge of the cliff and pushes 
them off. 
Then, not wishing to waste his erection, he masturbates 
hurriedly. 
Primo Columbian and Notary Sojak arrive. 
Sojak says to Serpento, ““Gimme an ear.” 
Serpento takes an ear from his pocket and gives it to 
Sojak, who puts it together with a handwritten note into 
the pocket of Rosebud’s jeans. 
Sojak hands Serpento a thick envelope. 
“It’s not easy pretending to be an honest cop,” 
Serpento complains. “‘! gotta take a lot of shit from my 
brother officers.” 
“Y'know,” muses Columbian, “that doesn’t square with 
what Baba Blabla said about how we are what we pretend 
to be.” 
“C'mon, let’s get outa here,”” Sojak says. “Geez, that 
Joan Baez sure sings pretty.” 
The three leave. Then there is nothing on the screen for 
a while except Coincidence Cliff itself. 
The film runs out just as Tongue Fu reaches the top of 
the cliff with Rosebud under his arm.... 
Tongue Fu shuts the projector off and puts the television 
back on. The channel he was talking to God on is blank. 
Click! 
Tongue Fu is walking with his tongue in Rosebud 
Zwalyimeh’s ear at Camp Crap. Suddenly he whips his 
tongue out of her ear and straight ahead; there is a blurred 
Panning of the landscape. 
“That camera-shy young man,” the newscaster is 
saying, ‘is Tongue Fu, who is no longer camera-shy. For the 
past several months he has been making a feature-length 
film about his life and tongue. The son of a Japanese 
Kamikaze pilot, rumor has it that Tongue Fu plans to commit 
suicide at the end of the film as a publicity stunt— ” 
Click! 
Tongue Fu is walking along 42nd Street, carrying 
Captain Mediafreak in his basket with one hand, and 
holding Chocolate Graham’s hand with the other. 
They pass a drag queen wearing bright green lipstick 
and rouge with matching fright wig, standing in the 
doorway of an Adult Bookstore. 
Tongue Fu stares at her for a moment, then says: 
“Thank you, God.” 
The drag queen stares back at him for a moment, then 
replies: “God never says you're welcome.” 
Chocolate Graham slips one of her calling cards into the 
drag queen’s bright green tote bag. 
Then the trio continues walking, into the smoggy 
sunset. 
Click! 
