a 
a 
i 
et 
COMMUONITINY 
BIRTH 
612 
| 
Cream Rises 
BIRTH & BABES 
Textbook for Midwives 
Encyclopedia, objective, technical 
612 
The Birth Book 
Subjective, beautiful 
612 
Commonsense Childbirth 
Natural childbirth, 
La Maze method 
219 
The Womanly Art of Breastfeeding 
Nursing 
220 
Baby and Child Care 
Baby Bible 
366 
Textbook for Midwives 
From England, where midwivery is widely practiced 
and legal, this is an encyclopedia on birth. Long 
sections on anatomy & physiology, pregnancy, 
abnormalities of pregnancy, normal labor, abnormal 
labor, the puerperium (post-partum), the newborn 
baby. Full of pictures & diagrams & highly technical 
(medical) terminology. 
It’s meant as a textbook to 
teach midwives their jobs; it can teach anyone who’s 
interested in the process, and is a must for those 
involved in home deliveries. 
It’s especially strong on 
the knowledge necessary to deliver in remote areas, 
and unequivocal about when to seek medical /hospital 
help. 
—DB 
[Suggested by Annie Hines] 
Textbook for Midwives 
Margaret F. Myles 
1953, 1974; 827pp. 
$1 5.00 postpaid 
from: 
Longman, Inc. 
72 Fifth Ave. 
New York, NY 10011 
or Whole Earth 
Morning Sickness 
About 50 percent of pregnant women vomit between the 4th 
and 14th week of pregnancy. 
It usually occurs immediately 
after getting up in the morning, and at this time retching 
and the vomiting of mucus, sometimes bile-stained, takes 
place. The sickness is usually accompanied by nausea which 
may persist throughout the day and impairs the appetite. 
If 
the vomiting of food continues, the mother’s nutrition 
suffers. The condition should never be ignored, for if ‘nipped 
in the bud” the serious complication of hyperemesis gravidarum 
would seldom occur. 
Treatment 
To maintain the glycogen supply, a light sweet meal should be 
eaten before retiring: 
a glass of milk and biscuits would be 
suitable. 
Extra sugar should be taken, and it may be expedient 
to prescribe some specific product, e.g. barley sugar, or treacle. 
Foods with a high fat content, like butter, cream, pastries 
and those that are fried ought to be restricted. 
The woman should have a cup of tea and toast with 
: 
marmalade-jelly or a biscuit before getting up in the morning, 
and although a thermos flask could be utilized it seems to be 
more efficacious if freshly made tea is brought to her, preferably 
by the husband. After lying still for half an hour, the woman 
Method of pelvic palpation to determine position in a vertex 
presentation. 
The higher cephalic prominence (the sincipital) 
will be on the opposite side to the back; on the right in an 
L.O.A. 
The Birth Book 
A generous and joyful book. Natural home birth as a 
meditation is the poetry and beauty of this remarkable story. 
The exhilarating dance of the Divine Paradox is ever present 
as we see oneness giving birth to separateness; pain emerging 
into ecstasy; labor as a dying and rebirth trip, and the cosmic 
insight that comes when one realizes, as one of the mothers 
puts it, “You have to relax to be in control.” 
The photographs and text fairly ripple with the incredible 
vitality that is created and experienced at each birth event. 
This is a modern story about Universal Being—— all that is, 
ever was and will be—— about compassion that was energized 
by the courage, integrity and openness of Raven (Pat) and 
all the mothers, fathers and friends who dared to cut 
through the fear and dehumanization of current childbirth 
myths and practices in America. 
The Birth Book is a graphic and factual account of 12 
natural home deliveries, midwifed by Raven and recorded 
by a group of young parents living in the Santa Cruz hills 
that were dedicated to Jetting natural acts happen naturally. 
Recognition that the spontaneous flow and wisdom of 
nature was often distorted by conceptual errors resulted in 
an expressed need for a place to learn together how to correct 
these and benefit from each new mother’s experience. 
Thus 
was born the Birth Center, a place where pregnant women 
support each other in demystifying the birth experience. 
Here, training and discussion is available on delivery, pre- 
natal care, exercises, diet and counsel against taking 
unnecessary risks when home delivery may seem contra- 
indicated. 
The Birth Center has had the sympathetic and 
verbal consultation of several local physicians, but the AMA 
bias being what it is, no practicing obstetrician has felt 
able to risk professional and financial security to work in 
conjunction with midwife training and home deliveries. 
However, with the aid of this.book and through the Center, 
the demand for home deliveries and changes in local 
obstetrical care is accellerating with vibrations that reach 
far beyond the scope of the Santa Cruz hills. 
/t was time for the Birth Book to happen. My regret is 
that it was not on the bookshelves 20 years ago when | was 
bucking the system during my first pregnancy, yearning to 
find some social or medical support in having a birth as a 
celebration instead of as an illness. 
Through an act of fate, 
! happened to pluck randomly for a book in the local library 
and found D. Grantley Read’s Natural Childbirth Without 
Fear in my hands. 
That is all | had, but it was enough to give 
me confidence to stay in tune with what | knew that | knew, 
and fend off the anesthesia and bottle feeding, both the going 
fashion in those days. 
Years later, when | was nearly 40, 
/ again put my trust in the same flow and managed a breech 
delivery in less than an hour. My doctor thanked me. 
| 
believe in the vitality of that inner rhythm and this is where 
THE UTERINE CONTRACTIONS 
\ 
FALSE LABOUR 
(1) Are not always present. 
(2) Are not always painful. 
TRUE LABOUR 
(1) Are always present. 
(2) Are accompanied by abdominal 
tightening, discomfort or pain. 
(3) Rarely exceed 60 seconds. 
(4) Recur with rhythmic regularity. 
(5) Are often accompanied by backache. 
(3) May last three to four minutes. 
(4) Are erratic and irregular, 
(5) Are not accompanied by backache. 
THE CERVIX 
TRUE LABOUR 
(1) The cervix is shortened. 
(2) The os is dilating. 
(2) The os is not dilating. 
(3) The membranes feel tense during a 
(3) The membranes do not become 
contraction. 
tense. 
(4) Show is usually present. 
(4) There is no show. 
FALSE LABOUR 
(1) The cervix is not shortened, 
should dress slowly and breakfast can usually then be taken 
and retained. 
Nausea may be extremely troublesome and 
the avoidance of hunger by having some easily digested food 
every two hours may help. The odour of cooking can induce 
nausea and in persistent cases it might be advisable to make 
arrangements for the woman to get away from this for a few 
days. 
Loneliness breeds fear, and fear is the arch enemy of the 
woman in labour who is going through one of life’s most 
tremendous experiences, isolated from those to whom she 
would naturally look for solace. The comforting companion- 
ship of the midwife who will listen, explain, encourage and 
assure, or keep silent as required, is of inestimable value to 
the woman at this time. 
When labour is well established the midwife should remain 
in constant attendance unless the woman is asleep under 
sedatives. 
In that case she should first be assured that 
baby’s birth will not occur for some time, that she will be 
closely supervised while asleep, and her call-bell answered 
promptly when she awakes. When left for long periods the 
woman's confidence in her attendants and herself is 
shattered. The midwife should appreciate the expectant 
mother’s fear that her baby will be born suddenly while 
she is alone. 
It is essential for the peace of mind of most women that they 
be kept informed regarding the progress they are making. 
Women respond magnificently to a word of praise, and 
being given reasons or explanations, e.g. prior to vaginal 
examination the woman is told why this is being done and 
that if she relaxes the findings will be more complete: 
afterwards she is assured that all is well, and that the baby 
will, or will not, be born soon. 
If the woman is made aware that she will never be expected 
to suffer more than she can stand, and that she will be given 
a sedative when she feels the need of it, she is less likely to 
clamour for relief too soon or to lose her nerve. 
Supporting perineum with left hand and easing birth of 
with right hand. 
Is My Baby All Right? 
A surprisingly candid and sensible guide to birth defects. |
prospective parents should read it, because it informs with 
scaring. 
Birth defects are much commoner than we’d like 
to think, and genetic counseling far less available than we’ 
want. 
This book explains a lot the ways that things can 90 
wrong, treats the major defects extensively, and tells you 
what can or can’t be done about them. 
—DB 
Is My Baby All Right! 
Virginia Apgar, M.D., M. 
and Joan Beck 
1972; 492pp. 
$9.95 
Postpaid 
from: 
Trident Press 
Simon & Schuster 
One W. 39th St. 
New York, NY 10018 
attn: 
Order Dept. 
or Whole Earth 
There should be an interval of at least two years betweei'| 
end of one pregnancy and the beginning of another. 
The 
shorter the time period between pregnancies, the greater ‘ 
the likelihood of birth defects and obstetrical difficulties. 
The younger the mother is, the greater the risks to which 
exposes her offspring by having them too close together 
Children who are born only a short interval after the birth 
a previous baby have significantly lower intelligence when 
tested at age four than other youngsters, it has been noted 
the long-term Collaborative Perinatal Project of the Natio" 
Institutes of Health. This research program involves almo} 
60,000 women and their children. 
With every subsequent child, beginning with the third, tli¢ 
Is increasing hazard of stillbirth, congenital malformation 
and prematurity. 
tn part, these added risks are related to 
other factors, such as the increasing age of the mother, sh4 
spacing between pregnancies and poor living conditions. 
But even aside from these hazards, the more children a 
mother has, the chances that each will be born healthy an° 
normal are slightly less. 
