> 
»mical farming and back to organic 
hat it calls “eco-agriculture.” It has 
| for the environment, the health of the soil 
nan is based on economics, not morality—— 
is documenting the effect that the 
pational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) 
the small farmer. Acres deserves a wide 
—RN 
§. usa. 
AGRICULTURE, 
Acres, U.S.A. 
$5.00 ($6.00 
Canadian) /yr, 
from: 
Acres, U.S.A. 
1 Ruskamp switched to eco-farrning in 1969. Like 
mers in the United States, he’d lost his way. 
rc duc’ on was falling, and earthworms had all but 
disap 
d from the scene, the scene being his Nebraska 
IC 
Dodge County. The people who convinced Ruskamp 
bout making the natural nitrogen cycle work, 
Id natural fertilizers, mostly about getting 
 eco-farming has caused him to change his 
life means something again, now that the 
or ca doesn’t have to stay closed because of all the 
enetic chemicals. 
, eat alcohol was stamped out ruthlessly, both 
ka before WWII, and everywhere after WWII. 
zed, 
the farmer ought to grow his own tractor fuel, 
; 
he ought to grow his own protein and fix his own 
ne of th most important cultural practices is the 
lanting 
of blackberry patches near the vineyard. There is 
C 
Bu pera called Anagrus, which is effective 
le af hoppers. However, this parasite overwinters 
( 
in ble 
kberries, where it parasitizes another species 
a 
pper. If enough blackberries are present to harbor 
tial numbers of Anagrus parasites, then leaf hopper 
| be nearly eliminated. 
ee fe 
1k of at least three rules that should never be 
One, never march into Russia. Two, never get 
war 
in Asia. Three, never permit your 
‘ation 
to sue its members. 
g edge of the movement 
monthly. $.60/copy 
10227 East 61st St. 
Raytown, MO 64133 
_ CALIFORNIA ALERT 
California’s FDA and Department of Agriculture is trying 
to get passage of Regulation No. 2774.5—— the use of dried 
animal waste products as feed. Head honcho in fielding 
the drive is Harold Ford of Southeastern Poultry and Egg 
Association. Objective is to put DPW (Dried Poultry Waste) 
into the bellies of cattle, sheep and laying hens. 
The animal waste products proposal is vulnerable. 
Its 
best chances ride with the ability of the “efficiency boys” 
in keeping it from the public. Nader could help on this one. 
So can college kids, radio stations. News suppression is the 
name of the game on this one. 
The USDA objective, of course, is to sell more soybeans 
overseas, then feed animals their own excreta. The whole 
thing smacks of soylent green. And it reminds one of 
1.G. Farben’s stunt with war prisoners—— feeding them on 
synthetic meals until they passed over the hill a few months 
later. 
Talk about perversion, in California they hydrolyze 
feathers and waste from animal slaughter plants. 
It’s 
called phosphoric acid system—— or the K-system. Through 
phosphoric acid pickling and chemical neutralization, it's 
possible to break feathers, bone and all down to basic amino 
acids (unless the experts are missing some part of the 
Creator's plans, as did 1.G, Farben). They think it works. 
It has been proposed for dead bird disposal (arsenicals and 
all). And for bird disposal when prices are low. The product 
is selling at 25 cents a pound to the pet food industry. One 
wonders—— if they'll use waste, dead birds, animal offal, 
is it far down the road before someone thinks of the K-system 
for dead people disposal? All in quest for protein, the holy 
grail of nutrition. 
Scientists at Penn State and Cornell universities have 
discovered a grasshopper which is secreting a protective 
froth of spray that contains man-made chemicals. 
Dr. Lawrence Hendry of Penn State said the grasshopper 
' has managed to incorporate the powerful new ingredient 
into its own defense mechanism. 
. 
. “It's a little like 
equipping a skunk with Mace," said Hendry. .. .he and 
three colleagues from Cornell made the discovery while 
studying the defensive froth of a 4 to 5 inch long lightless 
grasshopper, Romanica microptera. The froth’s odor 
drives away enemies. 
‘We found the usual range of gaseous components common 
to froths, clouds and other defensive sprays. 
“But when we isolated 2,5 dichlorophenol we were 
astounded. 
“That compound is not found in nature. We could only 
speculate that the grasshopper gleaned it from fields by 
chemically processing another man-made compound, 
‘2,4-D, a common commercial herbicide. 
Hendry said grasshoppers taken from fields where no 
2,4-D had been sprayed showed no 2,5 dichlorophenol. 
.. He added, “over a short time period, the grasshopper 
has managed to latch on to a man-made chemical for its 
own purpose. 
It is not very pleasant to speculate what 
might happen after a wide variety of hard chemicals have 
been in common use for 100 years.” 
Approved Practices in Soil Conservation 
How to control erosion from wind and water. 
Very 
complete—— contouring, drainage, pond construc- 
tion, shelterbelts, wildlife management. Many of 
the procedures assume you have access to a tractor 
and implements. 
Foster worked for the U.S. Soil 
Conservation Service, and much of the information 
is compiled from government pamphlets. 
They are 
usually referenced in the text, so you can use this 
book ina library to find which ones you want to 
send for. 
—RN 
Approved Practices in 
Soil Conservation 
Albert B. Foster 
1964; 497pp. 
$8.50 postpaid 
from: 
The Interstate Printers & 
Publishers, Inc. 
19-27 N. Jackson St. 
Danville, |L 61832 
or Whole Earth 
SOME IMELUEMCE 
EaTeAOS 
TO 
| 
(75 FEET Om THE wimOwaRO S106 
| 
Sa PROTECTION WLLL CATEND 10 (300 FULT ON The LECHARO SHOE 
The first step in contour farming is to establish a contour 
guide line that runs across the field almost at a constant 
level. All planting or farming operations will be done from 
this guide line. . 
. .Two people are needed—— one to use the 
level and one to be the target on which to take a sight and 
set the stakes. Equipment may consist of a hand level or a 
small carpenter’s level mounted on a T-shaped stick of light 
weight. ... In locating the first contour guide line ona 
slope, the usual practice is to go to the highest point in 
the field and then walk straight down the general slope from 
this point a distance of from 80 to 100 feet, depending on 
the steepness of the slope. . 
. .After the location of the first 
guide line has been selected, a stake is set and leveling 
is started from that position. With the levelman at the 
starting point, the helper paces 50 to 100 feet across the 
slope, staying approximately on the contour. The level- 
man directs the helper up or down the slope until he is 
on the same level or contour as the levelman. The helper 
sets a stake at this position and the levelman moves to the 
second stake, the helper moving another 50 to 100 feet 
across the slope. This procedure is continued until the 
line crosses the field. 
Vegetation and Soils 
The best way to use this book is choose a locale you are 
familiar with (redwood forest, southeastern pitch pine, 
saguaro desert). 
Then, look the locale up in the index and 
start reading about all the other areas of the world that are 
like the locale you know. My interest spreads—— like 
looking up etymologies of words. Eyre could have put 
the maps up front and had more and better maps but for 
a world picture, this synthesizes vegetation, soils, climate 
and human settlement better than any other book I’m 
acquainted with. Academic writing. 
—PW 
Vegetation and Soils 
(A World Picture) 
S.R. Eyre 
1963; 328pp. 
$8.95 Postpaid 
from: 
Aldine Publishing Co. 
529 S. Wabash 
Chicago, |L 60605 
or Whole Earth 
Coniferous trees vary a great deal from species to species 
in the demands they make upon the soil for mineral 
nutrients. Generally speaking, however, they are much less 
demanding in this respect than are most broadleaved trees. 
In particular most species of pine require very little mineral 
material and are thus able to thrive on very poor, sandy soils. 
Consequently pines normally dominate on sandy glacial 
outwash, which is of such frequent occurrence in Sweden 
and Finland, as well as on sandstone, quartzite and acid 
igneous rocks on the Laurentian and Scandinavian Shields. 
Since the pine trees abstract little mineral material from 
the soil, the vegetable debris which they return to the soil 
must also be very deficient in this respect and the humus 
resulting from the partial decomposition of it will bea 
very acid mor or raw humus. 
ASN
UNW
