d tuvily Your Place in the Country 
The best on land-buying 
494 
ing for Self- Sufficiency 
» British open ee 494 
Eco-agriculture 493 
-Built Homestead 
Plan before building 494 
and the Honeybee 
Best on bees Bad 
st 
introductory farming details 
491 
—RN 
Robots Behind 
the Plow 
(Modern Farming and the 
Need for an Organic 
Alternative) 
Michael Allaby and 
Floyd Allen 
1974; 182pp. 
$6.95 postpaid 
from: 
Rodale Press, Inc. 
Book Div. 
33 East Minor 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
or Whole Earth 
on E. Phillip LeVeen 
? 
University of California 
Department of Agricultural Economics 
} 
e end of World War II the number of farms in the 
Unite 
ates has declined by more than one half, the farm 
Op 
ion has declined in similar proportion, the average 
cs Be farm has more than doubled, and the average 
ent in farm land and assets has more than quad- 
These are only a few of the statistics describing the 
transformation of the agricultural system which we 
og 
hear acclaimed for its phenomenal productive 
(i.e., in 1972 one farmer fed fifty people while 
farmer fed only fifteen people). 
= modern technology which underlies this 
‘ormation has less well publicized, but dramatic 
tal effects on society. While we have been growing 
h fewer men, we have also destroyed 
ous 
of rural communities, contaminated our water 
ic 
with 
agriculturally-produced pollutants, used up 
ater, and mineral resources, displaced and 
farm labor, and inflicted serious health hazards 
v ho Produce and on those who consume the food. 
‘ 
these costs which affect us all indirectly, 
hreatens to eliminate the last sector of our 
ere the. small-scale, Oowner-operated, family- 
rise still exists and predominates. Now even 
ing 
family farms have become large organizations 
he future, these ‘family farms’ will have little choice 
1t to continue to expand and to emulate the organizational 
of the large industrial corporation if they want to 
This ‘means that a young man contemplating a 
ning who does not either inherit or marry into 
g family has almost no hope of becoming an 
t farmer, and therefore within a short generation, 
hat the family farm institution will become a 
ic of the past. 
oe 
Tomatoes, Hard Times 
America’s Land Grant College Complex, poten tially 
one of the greatest tools ever devised for the small 
farmer, no longer serves him. Hard Tomatoes te//s 
why. The Complex has become a corporate domain 
while farmers are going bankrupt by the thousands. 
This book was of interest to Congress and will be to 
anyone concerned about the future of small farming. 
—RM 
Hard Tomatoes, 
Hard Times 
Jim Hightower 
1972; 268pp. 
$4.95 postpaid 
from: 
Schenkman Publishing Co. 
3 Mt. Auburn PI. 
Harvard Square 
Cambridge, MA 02138 
or Whole Earth 
Land grant colleges and agribusiness are related directly 
through the graduation each year of thousands of students 
wito are trained to meet the needs of agribusiness and who 
are educated to accept the futuristic vision of a programmed 
and automated agriculture. ‘We don’t teach Cotton Pickin’ 
Wateriness generally indicates forced growing in'an 
unbalanced soil and heavy applications of artificial 
fertilizers. 
Lady Eve Balfour, one of the founders of The 
Soil Association which pioneered organic farming, once 
defined the successful use of artificial fertilizers as ‘‘the art 
of making water stand up,” and it has gone so far now that 
some California canneries are reported to be testing tomatoes 
for their water content, which the industry estimates was 
10 per cent above average in 1972, and deducting the excess 
weight before paying the producers. Unfortunately, no one 
bothers to weigh the water in “fresh’’ tomatoes. 
You pay 
for the water, and for its transport, when you buy them. 
A significant part of the increase in yields achieved by 
modern farming methods is due to the increased water 
content of crops. 
. .. So long as we are prepared to buy 
water at the same price as food, there will be an incentive to 
go on increasing the water content. 
In a way, “buying from farmers” is what this book is all 
about, for whether you buy directly from the farm or from 
a shop, we believe you should buy with the farmer in mind 
and he should grow food with his customers in mind. You 
The decline of the family farm and rise of the factory farm 
means fewer opportunities for self-employed individuals, 
more concentrated ownership of land and farm resources 
by the already wealthy members of the society, a more 
stratified division of labor between wage workers, paid 
managers, and corporate administrators, and it means that 
very few of the farm owners will actually live on and know 
their land first hand. With the elimination of the family 
farm, the last vestige of a once open, competitive, and human- 
scaled economy will have disappeared and the entire economy 
will be dominated by large, bureaucratic, impersonal 
organizations. The loss in terms of human creativity and 
initiative, in terms of increasing alienation, in terms of the 
increased division of society into separate and very unequal 
classes of workers and owners, and in terms of possible 
increased environmental damage stemming from the lack of 
concern for long-run effects of farming practices on the land 
cannot be estimated in terms of dollars, but these costs will 
be great. 
These trends could, in theory, be reversed. New technology 
might be developed to make small-scale, labor-intensive 
agriculture profitable. Farmers might join in building small 
cooperatives which would encourage cooperation in buying 
and selling products and the sharing of machinery and 
information. Such organizations have been successful in 
other parts of the world in maintaining a viable small- 
scale agriculture. Federal and state government might also 
institute a variety of penalties on large scale farming or 
land ownership which could further prevent or dull the 
growth incentives. 
Finally the small farmers must be pro- 
tected from the influence of large corporations which 
buy from, sell to, and service agriculture. 
In recent years, 
one of the major sources of increased corporate control 
in agriculture has come from these groups. Unfortunately, 
all of the types of changes listed here involve the displace- 
ment of a politically and economically powerful set of 
interests by less powerful ones which means that they are 
not likely to occur voluntarily in this country. 
Changes may come however. The energy crisis is an example 
of the types of natural forces which are increasingly going 
to play an important role in Se en) the way we 
Farmers of Forty Centuries 
The great book, reviewed on Pg. 46, is now back in 
print. Thank you Rodale. 
—RM 
Farmers of Forty 
Centuries 
F.H. King 
1911; 441pp. 
$7.95 postpaid 
from: 
Rodale Press, Inc. 
Book Div. 
33 East Minor 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
or Whole Earth 
102 anymore,”’ beamed Dr. Ty Timm, director of Texas 
A&M University’s agricultural economics department. 
Indeed they do not. A publication of that department 
reports that ‘Today, 90 to 95 percent of the department's 
graduates who plan an agricultural-related career go into 
agribusiness, with the remainder choosing production 
agriculture. "" Texas A&M has added two new masters 
degrees in agriculture: Agribusiness Management and Agri- 
Banking. Rutgers University has even coined the word 
“agrifactoring” to demonstrate the industrializa tion of 
agriculture, redefining it in terms of “the relationship of 
production-agriculture to the food processing and distributing 
industries.” 
and he should agree about the kind of food you are to eat. 
Unless farmers and their customers can reestablish an 
understanding of each other's needs, neither of them will 
have much voice in the kind of food production and 
marketing that will come in the next few years. The farmer 
will grow for, and you will buy from, industrialists, 
bankers and speculators. 
Food will be more uniform, but 
it will not be better. 
It will be plentiful, but it will not be 
cheap. 
produce food. 
Fossil fuels are not only used to drive the 
tractors and reapers, but also to produce the fertilizers 
and pesticides, and the power to run irrigation works. Our 
spread-out food system requires great additional amounts 
of energy to help in the processing and transportation of 
food. As energy sources decline and costs continue to 
increase, human labor will become a viable substitute for 
these other types of energy. New types of pest control, 
which will require skilled labor, will increasingly replace 
our dependence on chemicals; we will learn to use less 
fertilizer and irrigation water, and to use urban wastes in 
maintaining our soil fertility more effectively. Therefore 
the small farmer who uses his own labor, located near the 
city, digs his weeds by hand, and uses intensive agricul- 
tural methods which do not depend heavily on pesticides 
will be able to compete more effectively with the factory 
farm. These changes do not necessarily mean the revival 
of the family farm however. They do imply that in the 
future, more labor will be involved in agriculture and the 
trend toward fewer farmers will be stopped. Corpora- 
tions may be able to adjust to these conditions without 
having to give the land back to small farmers. Small 
farmers themselves may not want to return to the simple 
family farm but rather, they may want to find new ways 
of organizing their activities to insure some measure of 
independence and still have new forms of sharing risks and 
tasks which are best done by larger groups. 
In conclusion, it is becoming clear that our dependence on 
modern agricultural technology has led to false economies 
which will become an increasingly heavy burden in the 
future. This is true not only in the United States, but also 
in many developing nations which have recently adopted the 
similar technology of the ‘Green Revolution.’’ While we 
cannot dispense with the agronomist and other agricultural 
scientists, we must begin to understand that the solutions 
to the problems posed by resource scarcity and environ- 
mental decay do not lie solely in the laboratory but rather 
in fundamental reforms of our social, political, and economic 
institutions. Such reforms threaten established groups 
and therefore will not come about easily. However, we have 
little choice: we cannot continue in the future as we have 
done in the past, and we have run out of technological 
solutions. 
e 
ISM
CNW
hs 
- 
