_ Acollege dormitory scene. 
_ But itcan still be enjoyable. Actually performances are 
almost always executed with consumate skill. 
* For a look at the past, try Anthology of Chinese Literature, 
by Cyril Birch, (Vol. 1, Early Times to the 14th Century, 
492 pp., Vol. Il, 14th Century to the Present, Grove Press, 
1972, paper, both $3.95). A nice collection of stories, poems, 
Plays and miscellany. 
What ever you do, don’t miss Lu Hsun, China’‘s greatest writer. 
His writing is superb; amusing and sad. He was China’s H.L. 
Mencken. 
Lu Hsun was a short story writer and essayist who died in 
the 1930’s. But his writing is still very popular in China. He 
_Was witty, sarcastic, sardonic, cynical. He was also hopeful 
that China could get it together. He hated the venality of 
Chiang and his clique of corpulent bankers, generals and 
urban rich aping the west in the most demeaning way. In 
the communists and youth he placed his hopes for the 
future. 
- 
* His stuff is very readable; short two page essays, 
reflections, fables, ten page stories and his tour de force, 
The True Story of Ah Q. The Chinese have put out some 
excellent translations in, The Selected Stories of Lu Hsun 
(Foreign Languages Press, Peking, Paper, 255 pp., $1.75) 
Good reading. Lu Hsun jousted a few dragons in his day. 
no 
Once upon a time there was a country where those in power 
rae. 
had ground down the people, yet still looked upon them as 
: 
formidable opponents, whose writings were machine gun 
bullets and whose art work were tanks. Though they were 
the conquerors, they did not alight from trains at the regular 
Stations. Feeling unsafe on the earth, they flew about in the 
: 
air; and their resistance grew so low that in any emergency 
ors 
they came down with flu, infecting their ministers so that 
vs 
all fell ill. 
; 
They published massive dictionaries, more than one of them, 
Ee 
but none for practical use. To understand the real situation 
> 
one had to refer to a dictionary which was never printed. 
-— 
There one could find the most original definitions. 
‘Liberation’ 
is equivalent to execution... The definition of 
‘official’ is relatives, friends and slaves of a powerful man... 
_ 
‘Morality’ is ‘forbidding women to show their arms’. 
‘Revolution’ is ‘flooding the fields and bombing bandits.’ 
They published large tomes of laws compiled by scholars 
sent to different countries to study their legal systems and 
select the best, so that no country in the world possessed 
a code so comprehensive. But at the beginning was a blank 
page which only those who had read the dictionary which 
was never printed could read. Here were three clauses: 
First, some cases should be treated with leniency. Secondly, 
some cases should be treated severely. Thirdly, this does not 
apply in every case. 
—(Lu Hsun, 1936) 
te" 
For a good general tour through Chinese philosophy, try 
A Short History of Chinese Philosophy, by Fung Yu-lan 
(Ed. by Derk Bodde, Macmillan, 1966, paper, 368 pp., 
$2.95). It gets quite involved, in places. If you’re looking 
for the cosmic banana peel, or ‘‘mysticism made easy”, 
forget it. 
If you’re into Taoism, and want to read Lao Tze’s (The 
Masters) incomparable Tao Te Ching, try the translation by 
Gai Fu-feng and Jane English (Vintage, 1972, paper, 170 
pp., $2.95). Has Chinese calligraphy, translation and some 
fine photos. 
Chuang Tzu, (trans. by Burton Watson, Columbia University 
Press. Paper, 1964, $3.50) is one of the very best trans- 
lations of this Taoist text. Watson catches all of the play- 
fullness and humor in Chuang Tze. 
It’s a joy to read. 
The I Ching, or the Confucian classic, The Book of Changes, 
is a rather strange and incredible book. Its powers of 
divination have fascinated and hooked many since its 
: 
‘ 
inception 3009 vears ago. If used right and respectfully, it 
does indeed seem to have power. The best edition I've found 
is, | Ching, The Book of Change, translated and edited by 
John Blofeld, (Dutton, 1968, paper, 228 pp., $1 45). 
Blofeld has a very lucid explanatory section which discusses 
history of the | Ching and how to use and interpret the 
texts and commentaries. Good luck on this one. It's a heavy 
book. 
: 
* For some insight into where literature and theatre are 
today in China, try China on Stage, by Lois Wheeler Snow 
(Vintage, 1973, paper, 328 pp., $2.45). Lois was the late 
Edgar Snow's wife. She discusses the role and function of 
art, music and theatre in Modern China, and includes the 
texts of several popular revolutionary operas, plays and 
ballets. 
Rehearse for the revolution. 
—(Sign on wall of practicing 
room of Red Guard Art 
troop, 1971) 
* In 1942, Mao wrote Talks at the Yenan Forum on 
Literature and Art (Foreign Languages Press, paper, 80 pp., 
$.40). In it, he summed up his feelings on the relationship 
between literature and politics, and why literature should be 
used to further the revolution and cause of the people. Since 
that time there has been very little frivolous literature, no 
murder mysteries, no pornography, no decadent love stories, 
in short, no escapism written in China. 
Finally, treat yourself to Mao's poetry. He isa fine Poet. 
Very subtle and much less bombastic than many of his less 
well positioned contemporaries. Poems of Mao Tse-Tung, 
(trans by Hua-ning Lieh Engle and Paul Engle, Delta, 1972, 
160pp. $2.45) contain the best available translations of 
Mao’s poetry. There are 37 poems in this volume plus an 
extensive introduction. Mao’s poems are a real treat. 
While they are often political, they are invariably subtle 
and graceful as well. Mao writes in the classical style. 
And in spite of his admonitions to youth to steer clear 
of “the old,” he skillfully uses many classical and 
historical allusions which give his poems a strange mix 
of New China portrayed through symbols and references 
to Old China. 
Ten More Poems of Mao Tse-tung, (from, Chinese 
Literature, May 1966, Eastern Horizon Press, 1967, 33pp., 
$1.25) contains the ten most recently translated poems 
of Mao. They are in the official Chinese translation, which 
are by far the best. Bilingual texts accompany each poem. 
To Mr. Liu Ya-tse 
I can not forget how we drank tea-together in Canton 
And exchanging verses at Chungking just as the leaves 
yellowed. 
Thirty-one years are passed, and I am back once again 
in the old capital; 
At the season of falling flowers I read your beautiful 
lines. 
Take care not to break your heart with too much sorrow; 
We must ever take a far sighted view of the ways of the 
world. 
Do not say that the waters 
of Kunming Lake are too 
shallow; 
For fishing they are better than the Fuchun River. 
—(Mao Tse-tung, 1950) 
MAGAZINES AND PERIODICALS FROM CHINA 
A number of informative weekly and monthly periodicals 
are available in English (as well as French, Spanish, German, 
Italian, and ten other languages). Subscriptions are quite 
inexpensive and most are sent air mail. (There is a 40% 
discount offered for bulk orders from bookstores and 
dealers.) The articles contain a lot of important information 
on the arts, how China is handling her domestic problems 
and foreign affairs. Some find the language a barrier at 
first. The English is flawless. But the communist rhetoric 
is a turnoff to some. Once you get used to it, however, 
there should be no problem. 
Peking Review: (Weekly, $4.50 per year). This is China’s 
official political weekly. It contains all important speeches, 
articles, editorials and statements as well as sections on 
concrete domestic problems. Much of each issue is concerned 
with international problems and affairs of state. But the 
most important utterances of every kind invariably make it 
into Peking Review. It is short. An excellent weather vane 
telling the careful reader what is going on. 
China Reconstructs: (Monthly, $3.00 per year). A glossy 
Paper magazine with color photos and articles; China’s 
Life Magazine with a slightly different editorial position. 
Has a lot of very interesting articles on agriculture, science, 
the environment, waste reclamation, reforestation, medicine, 
education, art, women, geography, human interest plus a 
quite good monthly Chinese lesson. The articles are short 
and concise. But do give good glimpses into the basics of 
each subject. 
Chinese Literature: (Monthly, $4.00 surface mail, $14.00 
Airmail). A tastefully done small periodical full of poems, 
stories, plays, critical pieces and reproductions of art 
work. Most of the pieces are contemporary and in the 
socialist realism school of literature. But there are occassional 
stories by Lu Hsun, poems by Mao and other gems from the 
past. There are also various contributions of China’s 
minority peoples: Tibetans, Uigurs, Mongolians, Moslems, 
etc. 
China Pictorial: (Monthly, $4.00 surface mail. $16.00 air 
mail). Some excellent photographs here. Although many 
fall into the smiling-peasant-holding-sheath-of-rice-stal 
ks 
vein of communist photo journalism. Includes short 
articles on sports, life of various kinds of workers, contact 
with various visiting groups in China and abroad, industria! 
achievements, and human interest. 
é 
Scientia Sinica: 
(6 times per year, $19.00 surface mail, 
$28.50 airmail). This is a technical journal in English, 
covering a wide variety of China's scientific achievements. 
Good for the specialist. 
Exchange information. This is of great importance in 
achieving a common language. Some fail to do so and like 
the people described by Lao-tzu, who do not visit each 
other all their lives, though the crowing of their cocks and 
the barking of their dogs are within hearing of each other. 
—(Mao Tse-tung, 1945) 
A DAUGHTER OF HAN, The Autobiography of a Chinese 
Working Woman, Ning Lao T'ai-t'ai, 
1867-1938, as 
told to Ida Pruitt. 
Stanford 
1967 
254p, 
2.95 
IDEOLOGY AND ORGANIZATION IN COMMUNIST CHINA, Franz 
Schurmann. 
Organization of Party and Government, cities 
and villages, industry, 
Early emulation of the USSR, new methods 
to achieve economic progress. 
UC Press 
1966 
540p, 
5.5 
INDUSTRIAL SOCIETY IN COMMUNIST CHINA, 
Barry M. 
Richman, A firsthand study of economic development and 
management in China and socialist solutions to problems 
- 
— 
comparisons with India, the USSR, Japan and the U.S. 
Vintage 
1972 
968p. 
4.95 
INDIA'S CHINA WAR, Neville Maxwell. 
On India's border war with 
China in 1962, the author's documented view is that India provoked 
the Chinese and started the shooting. 
Anchor 1972 
3537p. 
2,95 
JOURNEY BETWEEN TWO CHINAS by Seymour Topping, Assistant 
Managing Editor of the N.Y. Times. A firsthand, critical study 
of modern China by one of the few U.S. journalists to visit Yenan 
in the 1940's and one of the first to be admitted to the People's 
Republic in the 1970's. 
He deals with U.S, -China relations inclu- 
ding the President's visit, the Vietwam War and the Pentagon Pa- 
pers, Sino-Vietnamese relations. 
Harper 
1973 
459 p. 
3.95 
THE MANDATE OF 
HEAVEN, Record of a Civil War, China 1945- 
49, by John F, Melby. 
Anchor 
1972 
378p, 
1.95 
MAO AND THE CHINESE REVOLUTION, 
Jerome Chen, Compre- 
hensive political biography. 
Mao's 37 poems in English are inclu- 
dedin Part Il. 
Oxford 
1965 
319 p, 
2.95 
4 
ie 
ie 
s at Taching Oilfield 
a Batts 
= 
MAO PAPERS, 
Anthology & Bibliography by Jerome Chen. Unpub- 
lished or little-known writings of Mao Tsetung. 
Mao's instruc- 
|
tions issued before & throughout the Cultural Revolution. 
Mao's 
literary style, ete. 
Oxford 
1970 
* 
221 p, 
10, 00 |
THE MAY FOURTH MOVEMENT, 
Intellectual Revolution in 
Modern China, by Chow Tse-tung. 
Stanford 
1967 486 p. 
3,75 
MODERN CHINA: 
The Story of a Revolution, by Orville Schell and 
Joseph Esherick. An exciting study of the Chinese people from 
the Opium Wars thru the Cultural Revolution, 
Emphasizes the 
role of workers and peasants in the struggle for a new China, 
Photos, 
Vintage 
1972 
149p, 
1.50 
THE OPIUM WAR THROUGH CHINESE EYES, 
Arthur Waley. 
(1958), 
Stanford 
1968 
256 p. 
2,95 
PEASANT REVOLTS IN CHINA 1840-1949, 
Jean Chesneaux. Deals 
with the qualitative differences between earlier peasant revolts 
and the organized revolution of the 1930's and 40's in which the 
communists took the lead to unite the struggles of peasants and 
workers, 
Norton 
1973 
* 
180 p, 
7,95 
PRISONERS OF LIBERATION (1957), by Adele and Allyn Rick- 
ett, with an introd. by Victor H, Li of the Stanford Law School. 
Charged with espionage for the U.S, Naval Intelligence Service 
in 1951, the authors spent four years in a Chinese jail, In this 
account of the prison reform system, they give one of the most 
complete studies of criminology in China where transformation 
of the prisoner into a new human being, not punishment, 
is the 
objective. 
A vital document for all interested in prison reform. 
Anchor Reprint 
1973 
344 p, 
2.50 
Page from catalog No. 28, China Books & Periodicals. 
There are also a large number of Chinese language 
publications available for those who read or want to 
Practice their Chinese. These include the New York Times 
of China, The People’s Daily (the official national daily 
paper), and Red Flag, China's monthly theoretical magazine 
Other available publications and prices are listed below. All 
can be gotten most conveniently from one or another of th¢ 
China Books and Periodicals branches. If you want to look 
at a sample, send 25 cents for handling and specify the 
