"| 
! 
f) Z 
A 
< 
a 
Za 
+ tage 
wen 
646 
FLYING 
The Complete Book of Sky Sports 
Here's an in-depth look at parachuting, soaring, gyrocopter 
flying, ballooning, and private plane flying. Since Emrich 
wrote this in 1969, when hang-gliding wasn’t what it is today, 
this sport isn’t included. At any rate, for details on the other 
ones, the book is a winner. Included for each section is more 
than enough information to give you a foundation for good 
judgement in that sport, on training, techniques and 
procedures, equipment and costs. Many fine photographs 
and drawings accompany the text, plus, at the end of each 
section, Emrich has included further books to read, 
eee to contact, and sources of gear. Really a fine 
ook. 
—AP 
The Complete Book 
of Sky Sports 
Linn Emrich 
1970; 208pp. 
$2.95 Postpaid 
from: 
Macmillan 
Publishing Co. 
Front and 
Brown Sts. 
Riverside, NJ 
08075 
or Whole Earth 
Tow HOOK 
RELEASE 
we 
CONTROL STICK = 
4 
RUDDER PEDAL 
2 
aowusTmenT 
4 oy 
—— TRit ADJUSTMENT 
\eihenm t 
j -!~ CANOPY rome: 
; 
RE: 
~ 
5} 
” 
SHOULDER HARNESS 
Figure 34. Sailplane Controls and Instruments 
Soaring 
Dear Mr. Brand: 
Thank you for taking time on the telephone last week to 
discuss soaring lithographs and books. 
Enclosed, as promised, is a complete set of my soaring 
lithos, gratis. They are sold for $5 each and are available 
direct from me or from Rainco, Inc., Box 20944, Phoenix, 
Arizona 85036 (later referred to as Rainco, a major source 
for soaring materials). 
Interesting books for you to advise your readers about: 
Pilots’ Weather— By Ann Welch, published by John Murray 
in London, available in the U.S. from Rainco. An absorbing 
and fully illustrated treatise on soaring meterology from the 
ground and the cockpit. An absolute ‘must’ for pilots. $12 
I think (it’s £4.50 in England, where | got my copy). 
Fundamentals of Soaring— By Derek Piggott, due to be 
published this Fall by John Murray. Piggott is one of the 
most famous glider pilots in the world and this is the 
definitive pilot’s text on the behaviour of airframes and how 
to control them. 
Free as a Bird— By Philip Wills, ex World and British Soaring 
Champion. John Murray again (home office address is 50 
Albermarle Street, London W1X 4BD), and price will be 
around $10 from Rainco. Outstanding review of gliding 
progress since WWII in Europe. 
The Art and Technique of Soaring— By Richard Wolters. 
McGraw-Hill, $15. A fully illustrated text showing virtually 
every aspect of learning to fly sailplanes, mostly the 
Schweitzer 2-33. Available from Rainco or the Soaring 
“Society of America, or the local bookstore if you're lucky. 
Figure 68. Semco 
Single-Place 
Dumping Balloon 
Sport Ballooning with the Thermal Aerostat 
Sport Ballooning was originally compiled as a guide for 
balloon club members—— so states the author; however, 
it is an excellent and detailed introduction to hot air flight 
from lift off to touch down, for anyone interested in how 
an aerostation is operated. Includes FAA licensing 
requirements, a list of ballooning clubs, and a dictionary 
of terms and jargon. 
4 
—AP 
Sport Ballooning 
with the Thermal 
: 
Aerostat 
HOM 
AgEA 
H. Lee Russell 
aera 3 
1972; 68pp. 
Long Sault, Ontario 
$3.00 postpaid 
Canada 
If this is to be a ‘champagne flight’’ a bottle of suitable 
vintage might be lovingly protected and safely stowed 
aboard. The champagne, of course, is traditional balloon 
equippage. But it is not there to be broken open by the 
joyous survivors of an especially hard landing—— no matter 
how thankful they are. Rather, it is intended as that final 
On Quiet Wings— By Joseph Lincoln. $30 from Rainco or 
the SSA. A full anthology of gliding flight since the first 
time man tried to get off the ground with wings. Beautifully 
produced and illustrated, and featuring most of the worthwhile 
authors on gliding who have ever put pen to paper. 
Gliding (A Handbook on Soaring Flight)— By Derek Piggott. 
John Murray didn’t do this one; it comes from Adam and 
Charles Black in London, and is available from Rainco for 
$10. Good basic text. 
Cream Rises 
RLY 
NG 
Stick and Rudder 
/nstruction masterpiece 
296 
Pilots’ Weather 
Cloud understanding 
647 
Private Pilot Study Guide Homework 
297 
Hang Gliding 
The utter rudiment 
645 
Weather Flying Sound advice 
296 
The Joy of Soaring Best gliding intro 
299 
Aircraft Components 
Gear 298 
Trade-a-Plane 
Airplanes 
298 
Jonathan Eaetoe Seagull 
/nner flight 387 
Figure 5. Paper Doll 
HP ce dot 
Cut doll from stiff paper. Bend into arched shape 
and drop from 6 feet high, It will always fall curved 
side down, or stable. 
Place kink or bend in center of doll and drop again. 
Pattern of fall is random and tumbling. This is unste! 
and happens when jumper bends forward at waist dw 
ing free falt. 
touch of diplomacy, when your mollifying reassurances 
fail to subdue the angry farmer-with-a-shotgun on whose 
haystack you are sitting. 
The cost of the personal equipment required by the aspiring 
member of the balloon club is almost nominal when compa 
to that of many other sports. All that is needed is a helmet 
a snowmobile helmet at about $9.00 is adequate, a pair of 
dungarees (less than $12. even for a good pair) and a $1.95 
Pair of heavy cotton golves—— the kind with the raised ridg 
of padding on the back. Although not an absolute necessity, 
stout, calf-high boots are handy, especially when one has 
landed in a soggy pasture. Thus for about $23 or less an 
aeronaut is fully suited for any eventuality. 
As for club membership, a $2500 to $3000 balloon split 
among 10 active members would result in a one-time 
expenditure of $250 to $300 each. 
There are few vehicles of any kind which have a lower fuel 
cost than a hot-air balloon. A fifteen gallon tank fill costs 
approximately $3.00 and is sufficient for 2 hours of flight. 
At $1.50 per hour you will find the gasoline cost of most 
automobiles will exceed this figure. 
New Soaring Pilot— by Ann and Lorne Welch and Frank 
Irving. John Murray, but available in the U.S. through 
Rainco for $10. An excellent introductory book on soaring 
up through the beginnings of competition flying. 
Meteorology for Glider Pilots— By C.E. Wallington. Anothe 
John Murray book, available from Rainco for $1C 
approximately. This is the basic scientific text on aviation 
weather with emphasis on gliding. Fully illustrated and 
documented, but rather hard going for the layman. 
Pilot’s Choice— By Gren Seibels. $6.95 going up | think to 
$7.50. Published by Soaring Symposia, 408 Washington St., 
Cumberland, Maryland 21502. Utterly delightful account o| 
a pilot who turned from noisy powered aircraft to the delig 
of soaring, and his many adventures. Well written, witty, 
delightful fun and authentic with a notable absence of 
‘gee whiz’. 
The above is a very small sampling of current books. In the 
summer I'll be publishing a book consisting of the collected 
writings of the new World Soaring Champion, George Moffé 
It'll be $5, paperback, and will probably be entitled 
“Winning’. The Soaring Press, at my office address. 
There’s a local gliding organization that welcomes hang 
glider and soaring pilots. It's PASCO, the Pacific Area 
Soaring Council, and annual dues are $5. Membership 
chairperson is Jane Herold, 966 Astoria Drive, Sunnyvale 
94086. An excellent monthly publication called ‘’West 
Wind” and year-round gliding activities throughout the 
West. 
| hope | helped a little. This is just a very tiny sampling of 
the available materials, that include sailplane models, maps, 
training data, etc. The Soaring Society of America is a 
very good source of information, and they are always 
interested in helping. 
Best wishes on your new venture. 
John Joss 
Box 960 
Los Altos, CA 940 
