Be 
+0, 
; 
ue 
5 
est household fix-it book I’ve seen. Clear & easy diagrams 
| instructions for common problems with plumbing, gas & 
lectrical systems, carpentry, general safety. Ignore the 
adies Pal” part of the title; it’s far less offensive than 
ilar books “written for women” 
that assume a five-year- 
id intelligence. 
—DB 
Home Emergency 
Ladies Pal 
Xyzyx Information Corp. 
1972; 
154pp. 
$1 .99 Postpaid 
from: 
Xyzyx 
21116 Vancouver St. 
Canoga Park, CA 91303 
Sticking Door Locks 
Lubricant should not be 
applied in lock keyway [2]. 
Lock tumblers must exert 
a certain amount of friction 
to work latch [1]. Lubri- 
cant will gather dirt and 
restrict proper operation 
of tumblers. 
pply light coat of lubricant to door key. 
sert key in keyway [2]. Operate key several times. 
Ising a 
cloth, wipe excess lubricant from keyway [2] and 
ey. 
: 
perate door lock several times. 
door lock still sticks, door lock mechanism must be over- 
quled or replaced. Call a locksmith in your area. 
The Barber Shave vs. The Ripoff Shave 
nless you’re a real little leaguer we must share the memory 
f barbers and civilians caressing each others’ faces or the 
ft and right sides of one face or some other comparison, 
d nauseum. The point is that the barber shave has been 
onceeded to be the best by anyone that has had one. 
It 
n't the basis of comparison anymore because nobody 
pmembers. Well, let me tell you, it’s still great. 
bought a straight razor for $2 and a strop for $5, both used 
om (of all people) a barber. 
| went to the old style barber 
op (with the moose head somebody shot before it was 
sgraceful) where | went when | was little (and where | quit 
ping when | wanted longer hair and found | couldn’t trust 
em). These guys all seem to have a drawer full of old 
zors that lost their shine. They try out new ones like you'd 
out flavors of ice cream. When | bought my razor | had 10- 
D different razors to choose among from the guys in the 
op. They were all happy to unload them and even dis- 
punting the ones that were worn out, there was quite a 
hoice (if you go to buy one new it will cost 5-10 times 
much and don’t expect a selection). All the guys in 
e shop gave me tips for sharpening and using the thing 
o—— | was an instant expert. 
ou do need to be initiated by someone who knows but it 
worth the trouble. 
It takes less than $15 capital (razor, 
rop, stone, brush, soap) and you're set for 10 years’ 
having. 
might cost another dollar or two per year for soap but 
at's all. You get the best shave, complete self- 
fficiency, and a tremendous bargain at a stroke. 
If you 
op $40 on an electric, $5 per year on tune-ups (plus 
e-shave, electricity, etc.)—— no bargain for a 2nd class 
ave (and a new razor in 5 years). The safety razor is 
) prize either. An endless supply of blades, aerosol foam, 
-—— the expense.is staggering. You become a stainless 
eel junkie. And that is clearly a second-class shave too. 
might get as close (the double blades still don't win, 
ys) but it takes narrow, short strokes. A straight razor 
n take your whole face in big, wide (and wear-saving) 
okes. And did you ever try to cut off sideburns, go 
ound a beard—— square it off underneath. A couple 
Strokes through real hair and a safety razor looks like a 
int brush (and cuts as well). A straight razor can’t clog. 
OU get the same shave in the same time whether your 
t shave was yesterday or 20 years ago. 
Ik about common sense, perishable resources, crass 
mmercial exploitation. . . , if there was ever a case of 
ople’s habits being reoriented to generate consumption 
'ts own sake. ... 
Roger Hyde 
Los Angeles, CA 
litor’s question: any reports from women orf straight 
Or advantages? 
—SB 
pete 
aa 
bs 
are 
Aes 
te 
Phir 
a 
Fae a a 
RIGHT RUNNING.... 
it can be a pathway to self-discovery 
by Dick Raymond 
Right Running—— as in Right Livelihood—— is an idea that 
depends on a universal truism: 
to wit, no two thumbprints 
and no two people are just alike, and every person can do 
something better than anyone else. Now add one more 
truism: that each person must (and can) discover that 
special ‘‘something” for her or himself. Which brings up 
the Big Q: “how do | find my very own ‘right running?’ ” 
| have run for a long time—— well, & not wisely, but long 
enough to have made a Jot of mistakes. 
Eventually, | 
began wondering about right running and turned to reading 
and thinking more seriously about it. Now | can happily 
recommend some references for anyone who wishes to 
enjoy running well. But I’m not talking about competitive 
or championship performers; they are another class, with 
advisers and techniques definitely beyond my level. 
My recommendations will mean more if you can accept two 
Personal premises. 
First premise. 
\t is more rewarding to ask good questions than 
to acquire a vast collection of everybody's answers. 
Second premise. 
\t is probably more important to learn 
what not to do, than to memorize a bunch of rules to follow. 
(Remember how the sculptor makes an elephant out of 
stone: she chips away everything that’s not an elephant.) 
Here are some questions, for example, that bugged me: 
1. What about breathing and breath—— what's that got to do 
with the lungs and the heart, and ultimately with the feet 
Pounding on the road? 
2. What makes my ankle sore, or why is my lower back 
aching after a long run on a hard surface? 
3. How fast should | run a quarter mile or a mile? Should | 
be concerned with speed? 
4. \s LSD training (Long Slow Distance) better than interval 
training, or can | combine both somehow? 
5. What do | gain from exercises, and what exercises should 
| be doing? 
Of course, | have many more questions than these, and for 
a long time | tried to deal with them intuitionally. 
Finally, 
| read damn near everything around, and—— as you might have 
predicted—— | learned that my intuitions were extremely 
worth listening to, and ultimately more useful than books. 
Still, several books were indispensable. 
A. Start with Breath and Breathing 
What every runner ought to know: Your heart is probably 
the main organ for right running. Once you accept that, 
you will immediately recognize the value of right breathing, 
and also why breathing out is of more concern than 
breathing in. (Your body will instinctively take care of 
Proper in-breathing.) 
My favorite and life-changing book on this subject is Doctor 
Breath. 
It was written by the man who was called in as a 
special adviser to the Olympic track team that trained at Lake 
Tahoe for the 1968 Mexican Olympics. 
The other basic text on this subject is Aerobics, by Kenneth 
Cooper, M.D. (Pg. 212). Reportedly, millions of people have 
read this book, which includes a graded point system 
enabling you to determine how much exercise you must do 
for maximum good health. Aerobics is a form of exercise 
which forces the body to consume increased amounts of 
oxygen, and produces benefits not just to skeletal muscles but 
to the whole body. 
| might not have appreciated either of these books if | had 
not been already interested in the Alexander Technique 
which deals with body functions at even a deeper level, 
that is, how the body and the mind relate and how a person 
can regain the instinct for using the body naturally, which 
is an instinct almost lost to modern civilization. A book is 
not the right way to learn Alexander Technique, but one 
helpful publication on the subject is The Alexander Technique 
by Wilfred Barlow. 
B. Add Something Technical About Runner Conditioning 
And Body Structure 
There is certainly nothing wrong with most of the several 
dozen books, bulletins, and booklets covering the subject of 
running. (World Publications, Box 366 Mountain View, CA 
94040 is a bottomless pit for avid readers in this field.) There 
is one publication, though, that | would not be without—— 
it’s only 29 pages, but 30 pages would be one page too many. 
It coherently summarizes and integrates LSD theories with 
interval training theories and supports anyone who prefers 
to understand running by intelligently using a “trial—error— 
success’ approach: The Conditioning of Distance Runners, 
by Thomas J. Osler, $1.40 postpaid from World Publications. 
To accompany this | would recommend placing an order now 
for a book to be released soon called The Complete Runner, 
edited by Joe Henderson, who doesn’t claim to be a first rate 
runner, but surely is a first rate writer for runners. World 
Publications can fill your order; they can also send you a 
long suggested reading list. 
C. But For Balance, don’t forget the rich philosophical 
aspects of running. You might enjoy another Joe 
Henderson book (112 pp., $2.59), called Thoughts on the 
Run—— also World Publications. 
Especially, when you get 
to be 80 years old, you may argue this is the only important 
part of right running. 
Dr. Breath, The Story 
of Breathing Coordination 
Carl Stough with Reece 
Stough 
1970; 255pp. 
$6.95 
postpaid 
from: 
William Morrow & Co Inc. 
Wilmor Warehouse 
6 Henderson Dr. 
West Caldwell, NJ 07006 
or Whole Earth 
The Alexander Technique 
Wilfred Barlow 
1973; 221pp. 
$7.95 postpaid 
from: 
Alfred A. Knopf 
457 Hahn Rd. 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Collapse and depression. 
Loss of depression with 
loss of collapse. 
The Alexander approach reverses the psychotherapeutic 
approach. The psychotherapist says, ‘You will only get rid 
of your unwanted behavior in a satisfactory way when your 
mental attitudes have been sorted out.” The Alexander Prin- 
ciple says, “‘It will be impossible to sort out your mental 
attitudes in a satisfactory way as long as you persist with 
that faulty manner of use.” 
ee _ 
Running Shoes 
I'm talking about running shoes, not track shoes. Track shoes 
have spikes in ‘em and the guys you see race on TV wear ‘em. 
Running shoes are what these world champion athletes do all 
their workouts in. Many of these guys run upwards of 20 
miles a night, and they need good, comfortable, strong, sturdy 
shoes. 
Good running shoes are the most comfortable shoes in the 
world. They also last forever if you take good care of ‘em. 
Figure—— if a guy can wear these shoes for his 20 miles a 
night and still stay comfortable, think how comfortable 
you'll be in your ordinary walking around. 
Running shoes have been developed (and changed radically 
for the better) in the past ten years by 2 Japanese firms, 
Tiger and Nike. Adidas and Puma are more famous, but they 
make flimsier shoes and charge more. 
Tiger and Nike make both leather and nylon shoes. The 
leather shoes will last forever if you occasionally rub the uppers 
with leather balm and resole ‘em as they need it. 
The nylon ones will not last forever. However, they’re 
cheaper, more comfortable, and they do last a long time. 
Running shoes aren't designed to be used as work boots—— 
but they do work very well for people who walk around a 
_ 
lot (postmen, store people, hitchhikers). They also look 
cool, and if you loaf around in them people think you're a 
track star. 
The Nike Cortez ($21.95 postpaid from Dakan) will last 
forever. 
It is the basic running shoe. 
It is contoured to 
your foot. 
The Nike Obori ($15.95) is the most comfortable shoe in 
the world, but also gives your feet some support. The 
winners of the Boston Marathon in ‘73 wore ‘em. Cheaper 
and more comfortable, but will not last forever.- 
—Joseph Kenny 
Available at many sporting goods stores and by mail, 
Brochures 
free from: 
The Athletic Department 
(Mail Order Dept.) 
Box 743 
Beaverton, OR 97005 
and 
Dekan Athletic Equipment 
c/o Dick Pond 
879 Duane St. 
Glen Ellyn, 1L 60137 
oe: 
e ; 
? 
AJLI
