Basic Rockcraft has long been one of the main rock- 
imbing manuals used by serious climbers—— just 
s Royal Robbins has long been a name brand climber. 
/e covers the meat of rock work from the equipment 
__ and its use through free and aid techniques to ethics 
and style. Excellent photographs and drawings. 
3 
—AP 
Basic Rockcraft 
Royal Robbins 
1971 ; 71pp. 
$1 .95 Postpaid 
from: 
La Siesta Press 
Box 406 
Glendale, CA 91209 
or Whole Earth 
JAMMING: 
It is possible to climb without holds as we 
normally think of them, by wedging or jamming our body 
Or parts of it in a vertical crack. Of all the free climbing 
techniques, jamming is the most difficult to learn; first, 
because it is strenuous and more important because it is 
totally foreign to our experience. Cling holds are under- 
standable. Here is something one can grab. But jamming 
* must be deliberately learned and fostered. 
For ease of understanding we can divide jamming technique 
into wedging and opposite pressure. Wedging in its purest 
form is illustrated by a chockstone in a crack. 
It is lodged 
because the walls of the crack are closer to each other below 
than they are above the stone. The boot or fist can function 
as a chockstone if the crack is the right width and 
the narrowing sufficiently abrupt. On the other hand, the 
human body, not rigid like a stone, is capable of exerting 
Pressure against the walls of the crack sufficient to over- 
come the pull of gravity even if the crack is wider below 
than above. Most often the two elements of wedging and 
Pressure will be used together. 
‘ 
Basic Mountaineering 
_ 
This book grew out of the vast number of lectures 
given by the Seattle Mountaineers in their training. 
courses, and as such has a “quick,” right-to-the- 
point presentation—— very little filler. Arrangement 
is in annotated outline form with line drawings—— 
Major emphasis is on traversing mountainous terrain, 
ie., hill walking and climbing, both in summer 
and winter. Has a very good first aid section. 
Recommended as a good first book to buy if you 
plan to get into backpacking/climbing activities in 
mountainous areas. 
There’s about $9.95 worth of 
information in this $2.50 book. 
—AP 
Basi 
Basic Mountaineering 
Henry |. Mandolf, Ed. 
ame 
1972; 136pp. 
$2.50 
postpaid 
from: 
San Diego Chapter 
Sierra Club 
Box 525 
San Diego, CA 92112 
yot YTUVEERING 
Prusiking 
- 
Prusiking is not only the best coverage of this manner of 
ascending vertical ropes, its the only one! This book is an 
absolute must for any serious climber or caver. 
Sixteen rope and semi-mechanical knots plus 7 
mechanicat 
and one motorized ascender are discussed in 
technical detail giving methods of setting up, using, and 
the advantages and disadvantages of each in the first part 
of Thrun’s book. 
The second part covers ropes, and the 
pros and cons of each type, their selection and use. 
Very 
thorough. In the final part Thrun goes into 19 of the 
best prusiking systems in vogue describing the hardware 
necessary, the most efficient method of execution and the 
advantages of each. 
—AP 
[Suggested by Allan P. Haern] 
Robert Thrun 
1973; 75pp. 
$4.50 postpaid 
from: 
Cave Ave. 
Huntsville, AL 35810 
—_—_—_—_—_—_—_—_—_—_—_— 
eee 
— 
Forrest Mountaineering 
High Quality climbing gear—— hammers, nuts, packs, 
slings, hammocks, etriers, and more. 
One item to 
check out is the Pin Bin—— keeps that hardware in 
handsome order and handy. 
Catalog 
from: 
Forrest Mountaineering 
Box 7083 
Denver, CO 80207 
Pinbin-Bandolier 
$6.95 
Moleskin 
cover natch 
[>] 
With Hale 
Blister The 
At the first feeling of hot or sore spots on the foot, stop 
— 
immediately and apply a patch of moleskin or plain adhesive 
tape. Don’t let the irritation continue without protecting 
the skin; otherwise your misery will hold up the whole party. 
If a water blister forms, prevent breakage if Possible; do not 
puncture or attempt to drain the blister. The skin over the 
unbroken blister helps keep infection out. 
Cover the water blister with a piece of moleskin-in which a 
hole has been cut for the blister; then cover the area with a 
strip of adhesive tape or moleskin. Should the blister break, 
wash the surrounding area and blister with soap or phisohex 
and water, cut away the loose skin and again cover with 
moleskin ‘“‘doughnut” and adhesive tape. 
Take advantage of extended rest stops by removing the boots 
and massaging the feet; changing socks will give a refreshed 
feeling. Keep feet and socks clean, and shoes free from small 
stones and sand. 
: 
QC" Bend 
NN 
S 
"S" Bend 
Rarige of Rope Behind 
NW 
National Speleological Society 
Fig. 51. The Texas prusik method 
A sitting position is the start of 
the cycle (A). It provides a 
convenient rest position. The legs 
are raised and the lower knot is 
Prusiking owes its birth and name to Dr. Karl Prusik of 
Austria, who first described how the knot that now bears 
his name could be used for climbing a rope (Prusik, 1931). 
The knot was not entirely new. Similar sliding hitches had 
been used before in other applications, but it was Prusik 
who inspired later mountain climbers and cavers. 
His name 
has, by common usage, lost its capitalization and become 
successively an adjective, an adverb, a verb, and a noun. 
Off Belay 
General Purpose climbing magazine covering the whole 
scene of mountaineering—— history, mountains, equipment, 
technique, and news. Comes close to being the only U.S. 
mountaineering periodical of real merit. 
: 
\ 
Off Belay 
Ray Smutek, Ed. 
Bi-monthly, 60pp. 
$6.00 /yr 
from: 
Off Belay 
12416-169 S.E. 
Renton, WA 98055 
Cutting the blocks is one of the two tricky aspects of igloo 
building. Simple as pie if done correctly, a disaster if not. 
The key is to truly cut the block free, and not to pry on it, 
or try to break it free. / 
Begin by making the long vertical cut. Use a sawing motion, 
and do not force the knife. Once inside the igloo circle, 
this cut may be several blocks long. It’s best to go through 
several times to make sure the cut is a full blade deep. 
Blisters: Sore or blistered feet are one of the frequent 
‘ 
nuisances which plague the climber, particularly the novice. 
Blisters are caused by a chafing action between the foot and 
the sock, particularly at the heel. Wearing a thin pair of 
slippery nylon, silk or even cotton socks under the woolen 
Pair is a recommended practice. Remove any wrinkles in 
socks. Wearing properly fitted socks and shoes will eliminate 
Walking downhill with loose boots creates misery by hitting 
toes and rubbing heels. If your boots are loose, you may 
correct the problem by using an additional pair of socks, by 
better lacing, or by using inner soles. 
most blisters. New boots should be broken in before an_ outing. 
: 
More Mere 
« \ \\ 
Friction 
Boot Ice Axe Belay ANS 
Chiraney Stemming\} 
Next make the two, short axis, vertical cuts. But use your 
hand as a depth stop. 
If you go in too far and nick the 
next row, blocks cut from it will break at the nick. These 
two cuts should taper outward very slightly, so that the 
block will tilt out without catching on the edges. 
The final cut frees the bottom edge. !f everything has been 
done properly, the block will settle with a dull ‘‘thump,”’ 25 
it comes free. No thump means that somewhere the cut is 
incomplete. Trying to pry the block out will only break it. 
Recut all edges. 
Lata 
