oh, 
t a Blow That Phantom Gave Me! jis about a society 
in which we acknowledge the control of the media as pre- 
iterate man did the words of the Shaman. 
To digest this 
book is to absorb the insights of a man floating between 
primitive and modern cultures in search of the impact of 
edia on the human being. 
; 
tis the author’s concern with the recipients of electronic 
edia that makes this an important book. In a series of 
short chapters, Edmund Carpenter shares his adventures 
with the reader and discusses the effects of media through 
ery specific encounters with life. 
his book is an awakening and a warning, it is almost an 
apology, and yet a plea for a more professional and 
compassionate media, where the information is meaningful 
to the livelihood of the mass community. 
| would recommend 
t to anyone in the media business. 
—Ceil Gruessing 
~Oh, What a Blow That 
Phantom Gave Me! 
Edmund Carpenter 
1972; 192pp. 
$1 .95 postpaid 
from: 
Bantam Books, Inc. 
666 Fifth Ave. 
“New York, NY 10019. 
or Whole Earth 
ou Can't Say “No” Pictorially 
It's easy to say ““No” verbally. Words are neutral symbols 
hich stand for a reality but do not resemble that reality. 
A picture, however, often resembles reality, especially when 
that picture moves. This makes pictorial media enormously 
persuasive. 
It requires an act of will to disbelieve what one 
ees & an even greater will to accept the reverse of what one 
sees. 
The New Guinea government circulated large posters that 
said: Protect Our Rare Birdwing Butterflies; and beneath 
his, pictures of the butterflies in question, along with the 
warning: “$200 fine for collecting; $20 penalty per specimen 
Birth and Death and Cybernation 
| like the way Paul Ryan ponders about cybernetics, 
video, information-economics and other weightless 
puzzles. | like the way he—— as Bateson put it—— 
“worships Klein bottles” (diagrammed self-reference 
paradoxes). 
| hope he finds a way to keep at it 
without succumbing to some college or other. His 
deadly accurate criticism of foundations should 
protect him from them at least. 
—SB 
Birth and Death and 
' 
- Cybernation 
Paul Ryan 
1973; 175pp. 
$9.95 
from: 
Interface 
Gordon and Breach, 
Science Pub. Inc. 
1 Park Ave. 
New York, NY 
10016 
Videotape enables a person to be present to himself in a new 
ay. This past summer an eleven-year-old black girl was 
hitching home from Star Lake summer camp. The counselor 
Caught 
up with her. Her main complaint—— ‘’I’m ugly.’’ He 
had the sense to take her to the VT setup and show her 
herself on tape. “Ooh, that’s me, huh? Okay.” 
Relative to video infolding, it is near impossible to describe 
in words even using klein form graphs what I’m talking about. 
he following will mean little to anyone except those who have 
experience of taping themselves at different levels. 
: 
y the tape for yourself is to contain it.in your 
Perceptual system. 
ee 
A 
ail 
2 
: 
ap 
ourself playing with the replay is to contain both 
on a new tape. 
: 
: 
& 
ete 
ig 
la’ 
f tape of self with tape of self is to 
in a new dimension. 
y for onesel 
in possession thereof.” Villagers immediately collected 
these butterflies & took them to agricultural officers for 
payment. 
A common beer ad in New Guinea shows a foaming glass 
with the caption: 
Be Specific, Say South Pacific. When 
the sale of beer was permitted to indigenes, the London 
Missionary Society posted identical ads, except for the 
caption: Say No. Beer sales immediately increased. 
Drinkers ordered No. 
CBS-TV broadcast the picture of an ancient Jack Benny ona 
TV talk show, in the studio, watching a movie of an elderly 
pajama-clad Jack Benny, at home, watching an old movie, 
on TV, in which a young Jack Benny, in the Orient, makes 
love to Dorothy Lamour. 
We assume the role of our costume, our information. The 
public figure’s image, detached from his body by electricity, 
is transferred to ours. 
His spirit enters us, possesses us, dis- 
placing our private spirit. We wear his image, play his role, 
assume his identity. When Eisenhower suffered a heart 
attack, the stock market fell. On Moratorium Day in 
Washington, April 1971, tens of thousands of marchers, 
clothed in collective guilt, wore Lieutenant Calley masks. 
In the preliterate world, spirit possession is thought to 
occur rarely, under circumstances fraught with mystery & 
danger. With us, it occurs daily, without wonder, free from 
examination. 
Parts left out of that process are parts uncontained. 
All of this is mapable on computer graphic terminals. 
At one level that of reality that is left off the tape is the part 
uncontained. 
Raw tape replayed is part contained in the head. 
If it is somebody else's tape you are watching you can to an 
extent share in this live perceptual system via the tape he took. 
To watch another's edited tape is to share in the way he 
thinks about the relation between his various perceptions in 
a real time mode. This enters the realm of his intention. 
If you are editing some of your tape along with tape some- 
body else shot and he is doing the same thing using some of 
your tape, then it is possible to see how one’s perceptions 
relate to another's intention and vice versa. 
Inspin—part contained continucs containing itself au 
mfinwtum 
re 
double © 
‘© Part contained pasies through three different mades wf being contained 
or Whole Earth 
3 
The movement away from capitalism toward ecological 
narcissism is, at least in part, the embodying of mind in 
infomorphs. By infomorph, I mean an organism that 
relates to itself and its environment in a way that respects and 
optimizes all possible transforms of differences that make 
‘differences. 
\t does not identify one variable, such as profit, 
and attempt to maximize that variable at the expense of the 
whole. 
e 
A mind that concerns itself too much with what it knows 
cannot maintain a good guessing way. Openness to the 
unknown is part of having a feel for what is relevant as 
things develop, a sense of the significant differences while 
there is still time to make a difference. Such access to 
relevancy is part of the freedom to self-correct that infor- 
mation economy can supply. What we don’t know is an 
infinite resource, inexhaustibly recyclible. 
It seems possible 
to develop out of our ignorance a culture with a fullness 
of feedback such that we would not be recurringly faced 
with the choice between cannibalizing the human relations 
we have or solo-tripping to regions we cannot relate to 
those we love nor ask them to trust. 
Mimicry in Plants and Animals 
Mimicry will blow your mind. Beautiful illustrations 
of how two or three creatures have passed so much 
time together that they merge inextricably. 
Flowers mimic super-female wasps which the males 
fuck “mistakenly” and so fertilize the flower. One 
butterfly tastes bad and a dozen others evolve 
disguises so they appear to birds as a “bad taster.” 
Spiders evolve to appear like ants so they can enter 
colonies for a meal. Hundreds of mind-bogglers. 
—PW 
Mimicry in Plants 
and Animals 
Wolfgang 
Wolfgang Wickler 
wickler 
1968; 249pp. 
mimicry 
$2.45 Postpaid 
anienoie 
from: 
si 
McGraw-Hill Book Co. 
Princeton Rd. 
Hightstown, NJ 08520 
Manchester Rd. 
Manchester, MO 63011 
8171 Redwood Hwy 
Novato, CA 94947 
or Whole Earth 
Male of the long-horned bee attempting to copulate with 
the flower, with the head of the bee with attached pollen sacs 
shown. 
ih 
Predators that angle for their prey with dummy bait. The 
angling turtle Macroclemmys temmincki. 
Ree, 
Ve: 
‘1 
a 
Butterflies of the genus Thecla draw attention away from the 
true head and direct it to an imitation head at the hind end 
by means of converging colour stripes on the wings and 
antenna-like appendages on the wing tips. In addition, 
Thecla togarna on landing swings its hind end into the 
previous direction of flight and subsequently flies off in the 
opposite direction. 
S
OIN 
NM 
WOD
