Jina 
pete 
2% 
TP 
on 
hae 
~ 
omprehensive reference for those whose mothers 
© 
r taught them. Its focus is on staying organized 
ehind a myriad of household chores; its strongest 
int that it covers care of current fabrics, furniture, 
- appliances mother never heard of. It gives concise 
1ow-to instructions for every imaginable routine, 
an attractive paradox. 
; 
—DB 
Ladies’ Home Journal 
Art of Homemaking 
Virginia T. Habeeb 
1973; 588pp. 
$9.95 Postpaid 
from: 
Simon & Schuster 
One W. 39th St. 
New York, NY 10020 
or Whole Earth 
To remedy a sagging cane seat, dampen it and let it dry 
slowly. Repeat process until it returns to shape. 
es’ Home Journal Art of F omemaking 
d then encourages you not to be too compulsive—— 
Hoky’s gentle whirring does not disturb nursing Teddy. 
Hoky Floor & Carpet Sweeper 
In the fall of 1973, | came across Victor Papanek’s profound 
Design for the Real World. Happily, about the same time | 
bought a Hoky sweeper from a neighbor. 
“The Incomparable New 2-1/2 Pound Hukuba Hoky 23A 
Floor and Carpet Sweeper—— Ideal for Homes, Offices, 
and Businesses,”’ begins the full-color, 4-page brochure 
accompanying each Hoky. Talk about a well-designed 
Product! 
It’s hard not to use plenty of superlatives (all 
honestly earned) to describe the Hoky. 
Static electricity and great design are the ‘’secrets.’’ Small 
9” x 7-1/2” x 2” (with 3-part handle extending to 
43"'), but mightly. 
Light, but no toy. Heavyduty steel 
sweeper 
ly clean, 
as carpets. The Hoky also effectively handles hard-to-pick .
litter like cereal, sand, lint, metallic objects, etc. 
Versatility personified—— the adjustable handle makes it 
great for cleaning stairs. No awkward hoses/cords or heavy 
vacuums to lug up and down. The very low 2” profile 
makes 
it great for cleaning under the Jowest furniture—— 
without breaking your back in the process of moving it 
around! 
/ 
Easy to keep clean too. Specially designed (curved) Hoky 
brush (provided of course—— no expensive accessories are 
needed) easily cleans rotor brush, which can also be washed 
Baked enamel coating permits entire unit to be washed witt 
fear of rust. 
No need to bear down. Long, easy strokes provide the 
| 
static electricity that does the work. Three-year-olds (or 
younger), nursing mothers, oldsters (or anyone) confined 
to wheel chairs and convalescents all can use the Hoky with 
equal ease. 
The Hoky’s gentle whirring sound will not disturb TV 
viewers, stereo listeners nor nursing/sleeping babies. Great 
in restaurants—— while people are eating. Slim, attractive 
design doesn’t upset the eyes either. Hoky’s don’t need to 
be hidden in dark cubbyholes—— they make great converse- 
tion pieces. 
And talk about energy conservation! 
No additional fossil 
fuels, just a few human calories. Look elsewhere if you 
want to work up a sweat! Great for tent campers in the 
boonies or for back-to-the-landers avoiding commercial 
Power. 
Oh yes, the Hoky is a veritable mini-U.N. with patents in 
Canada, F.R. Germany, U.K., USA and Japan and is made 
in Taiwan for Hukuba Kogyo Co, Ltd, Japan. 
In short, | was so enthusiastic that my neighbor suggested 
that | sell them too. 
. 
. so here’s to your good health, 
~ happiness and Hokying. . 
. 
Wet all bamboo, cane, reed, rattan, or wicker furniture about 
once a year to prevent drying out or splitting. Take it outside 
if possible, and use the fine spray of a garden hose or wet it 
down under a shower, if possible. 
(able to support 150 pounds) throughout. Only non- 
steel exceptions being soft rubber wheels and bumper band 
(to protect furniture), finest boar bristle rotor brush and 4 
exclusive corner brushes (for getting right next to baseboards, 
$22.72 (ppd & insured) 
John Weber 
3022 Bondesson St. 
if furniture is enameled or painted, follow directions for 
cleaning painted furniture. 
Do not use water if the finish can be damaged by it. 
e 
Avoid the use of chrome near the seashore, as salty air is apt 
to corrode it. Stainless steel is a more durable material and 
will not corrode. To clean it, use a little ammonia and water, 
a spray glass cleaner, or a special stainless steel cleaner. 
Tip: Leftover carbonated water or club soda is excellent for 
cleaning chrome and stainless steel. We learned this trick from 
a friendly bartender! 
e 
WHEN YOU USE A CLOTHESLINE 
Despite the increased popularity in the use of automatic 
dryers, many still prefer to use the clothesline, or if they 
don’t prefer it, they are doing it out of necessity. While it 
is harder to lug the laundry to the clothesline, drying out of 
doors does give clothes a lovely fresh smell. An indoor line 
is also necessary for those bad-weather days. 
If you don’t have 
an area where you can leave the line up at all times. consider 
one of the indoor retractable types. Hang it in a spare room 
or bathroom. 
To hang sheets, fold them double, hem to hem. Turn about 
three or four inches over the line and pin, or fold in half if 
that is easier for you (make sure the pins are snag free and 
clean). Run your fingers down the selvage edges to make 
sure they are smooth. 
If you hang them this way, sheets 
will dry evenly and will be easier to iron. As a matter of 
fact, they may well be smooth enough so that ironing is 
unnecessary if you fold while faintly damp (only enough to 
feel coolish to the touch). 
If they are permanent press 
into corners, etc.) and a plastic hand grip. 
101 Practical Ways to Make Money at Home 
Down to earth ideas, advice, resources for padding the 
family income without going so far as to take a job. 
Especially for parents who want to be at home with 
young children; sound appraisal of “the pleasures 
& problems” of such arrangements. 
—DB 
101 Practical Ways to 
Make Money at Home 
Editors of Good House- 
keeping 
1971; 312pp. 
$5. 95 postpaid 
from: 
Good Housekeeping Books 
Hearst Books 
Box 2316, FDR Station 
New York, NY 10019 
or Whole Earth 
> 
x 
; 
4 
- 
é 
8 
By the time children are in primary school, though, they will 
be out of your hair most of the day. In addition, children of 
this age group can staple, fold letters, stuff envelopes, and 
perform many other simple but helpful tasks. They can also 
take the younger children off your hands occasionally, and 
do extra household chores. 
Omaha, NB 68112 
Paying bills. In addition, they can file, answer the telephon 
make posters, hand out advertising flyers, and, if they drive 
handle pickups and deliveries for you. 
How do you get all this help? That’s simple. 
If your kids ar 
young, you tell them it’s fun, and they will believe you and 
enjoy sharing in your activities. 
If they are older, you pay 
them. Whatever their age, you do your best to make them 
feel partners with you in a family enterprise, rather than 
victims of a situation that deprives them of much of your 
time and attention without any compensating benefits. 
The pluses of individual proprietorship include fewer tax 
complications, a minimum of government regulation, and 
flexibility in operation. You sign all contracts in your own 
name, report all income on your personal tax return. On t 
other side of the coin, you must take personal responsibil it
for business debts, you sometimes pay more in taxes than 
you would if you were liable for a corporate tax, and you 
may have difficulty in getting loan capital. 
A partnership may be desirable if you find you need help— 
financial or otherwise. Partners pool their resources and 
talents to run the business and share, according to the term: 
of the partnership, in its profits. Each partner reports on 
his personal tax form his proportionate share of the incom¢ 
of the partnership. A drawback of this form of organizatio 
is the fact that each partner is personally liable for the 
business debts of both himself and his partner(s). 
A corporation is a statutory form of organization, a 
separate entity under law, with ownership represented by 
shares of stock. The biggest advantage of a corporation is ! 
sheets, then your ironing worries are over! 
if your business fails and you can’t pay its debts, your per- 
To hang men’s shirts, first fold double by bringing the 
sonal liability is limited. 
Kad 
two shirt fronts together, then hang by the tail, folding three 
: 
or four inches over the line. Pin at the ends. 
_ We like to hang permanent-press shirts on hangers for 
drying. Secure the hangers to outdoor lines with clothespins. 
Teenagers who can type are invaluable for corespondence and 
you cross the harp, and come in backwards to the song, bl 
Idaho Letter 
dear epilog 
i think the keseys make the gallon plastic jub that you buy 
milk in around here. the jugs get used for more than milk. 
we haul drinking water in them, cut in half and upside do 
you get a funnel, with the bottom half used for rabbit wat 
with the handle left on and the quarterface opposide the 
handle cut out, its a water dipper, with the handle left on 
and the quarter face below it cut out you can catch crank- 
case drainings. i saw a pole lamp in mccall with the top 
halves being used as shades. snowmobilers are strapping 
gas in them. larry usee the flat sides and cut out the alpha 
for the kids to trace around. 
To hang towels, fold either one third or double over the line. 
Shake them vigorously, to restore softness and fluffiness. 
Never hang by one corner. 
alladin lamps are kerosene gobbling, temperamental, luxury 
lamps they use just about twice the kerosene per time unit as 
the standard flat-wicked glass bowl kerosene lamp. alladin 
mantles travel no better than coleman mantles. there is a 
bright side: for close work, like embroidering tarot cards on 
shirt pockets, the alladin gives about twice the light of the 
flat wicker, if folks bought everything but the font, or fuel 
container, how much would they save? would it make it 
worthwhile to use a pound prince albert can, for instance? 
Hang clothes into the prevailing wind so that pajama legs, 
sleeves, etcetera, will billow and smooth out as they dry. 
Hang dresses, trousers and pants, knitted garments, and any 
items you want to hold in their original shape on hangers and 
secure the hanger to line with clothespins. 
grey duct tape: arno, michigan city, indiana, 46360, 
2 inches by sity yars, grey supertape, but not as super as 
what the government uses to steamfit its battleships. seem: 
like a citizen should be able to buy anything that the 
government can. 
the handyman jack, or mountain jack as they call them 
around here, are good lifters. we broke the shear pin on 
one lifting the downhill side of a 16 by 20 log cabin, a little 
stronger shear pin and a four foot cheater, and the house 
came pu. used one as a cider press. 
in the middle of the 
winter. by notching out a power pole to jack up againse and 
putting the butt down into a round plunger rigged into a 
worn out three gallon canner, we pulled out the powerpole 
Wonderful washing machine 
Hitachi makes a small washing machine that uses no power 
other than a few turns ona crank. A modest filling of hot 
water draws a vacuum in a spherical chamber as it cools, 
sucking dirt out of the clothes. Obviously it could be adapted 
to a solar heat source. 
They say home (Japanese) market 
well, that’s all, 
ne 
demand is so great that they can’t import it, but we've seen one 
and got apple toothpaste out of the holes drilled in the canner. 
love, 
work and think they ought to be encouraged to do so. Wed 
; 
; 
: 
jd 
gladly help publicize the wonder device. 
the hohner marine band harmonica. 
if you start by blowing, 
—JB 
you stay in the key of the harmonica. 
if you start with a suck, 
Burgdorf, Idah 
- 
ene 
eee 
ol 
PPS ee, ee 
Sees 
