a 
. 
4 
ye 
* 
= 
ce Your Own Soap! 
a 
3 
is book is the best buy: she gives positive advice 
luding why something is done the way it is. 
in 
. 
listorical background, recipes, and information on 
't, color & shape of soaps is given. She favors 
g materials at hand whenever possible, and 
s for gift containers. 
—Lorna Jones 
Make Your 
Own Soap! 
Dorothy Richter 
1974; 137pp. 
$1.95 Postpaid 
from: 
‘Dolphin Books 
- Doubleday & Co., Inc. 
501 Franklin Ave. 
Garden City, L.I., NY 
11530 
or Whole Earth 
Other References: 
Batchelor, Walter, Gateway to Survival is Storage, 
Bookcraft Publishers, 75 cents, Section VIII, 
Page 24 (one-page article). 
_ Bramson, Ann Sela, Soap. Making It, Using It, Enjoying 
___ 
It. Workman Publishing Co., 1972, $2.45, 96pp. 
_ Dickey, Esther, Passport to Survival, Bookcraft, 1969, 1973, 
$3.95, p. 135 (two-page article). 
: 
‘Notes on Soapmaking, Household Products Dept., Penwalt 
Corporation, Philadelphia, PA, free (six-page booklet). 
_ 
Pitzer, Sara, Making Your Own Soap, in April, 1974 Organic 
ee & Farming, Emmaus, PA, pg. 90 (four-page 
article). 
: 
- Causes of Imperfections and Variations in Soap 
1. A greasy layer on top of soap indicates that too little lye 
was used for the amount of fat. 
2. Streaked soap shows that the fat and lye solution were 
not thoroughly mixed. 
3. Cracks in the soap may be due to too much stirring or 
too much free lye; or drying too quickly. 
4. A white deposit on the soap may be due to the use of hard 
water in making the lye solution; a little free lye; or the 
addition of too much borax. 
5. If too cold or too hot temperature is used, or if soap is 
too vigorously or not thoroughly mixed, a separation 
may occur. A separation may also result from using 
exceedingly rancid fat or fat containing salt. Greasy soap 
forms on top while liquid settles to the bottom. 
Castile soap gets its name from Castilla, the region in Spain 
where it was first produced. Olive oi! was plentiful and when 
combined with tallow it produced a soap of superior quality. 
Though soap continues to be made in Spain it is seldom made 
of olive oil because of the cost. 
Making Soap 
Making your own soap is a highly satisfying, 
worthwhile endeavor. With a minimum of ingredients 
and gadgetry, a novice can produce relatively pure 
laundry soap that is non-pollutant and very effective. 
A further motive for soapmaking is the opportunity 
© 
to recycle such household throwaways as bacon fat 
and milk cartons. 
. 
. plus the personal reward of 
creating an attractive, useful product for your daily 
life. 
- 
In this era of pollution awareness, relatively pure 
laundry soap should not be overlooked. It is easy to 
grind three-day old cakes using a Mouli Shredder 
(used to chop and shred vegetables). Neither books 
nor the short articles mentioned here address the 
energy issue, e.g. how much heat is used to render 
tallow. Nor was there a great deal of information 
about the fastest and safest way to accomplish the 
rendering. 
—Lorna Jones 
A very high-grade soap, which in many respects is superior 
to castile soap, can be made as follows: 
% cup olive oil 
% cup coconut oil 
1% cups tallow 
Glycerine Shampoo 
% cup of liquid glycerine soap poured into a bow! when the 
soap has been beaten to the pouring stage 
% cup of warm, soft water added to the soap 
2 tablespoons of baby shampoo or use your favorite 
shampoo 
: 
2 tablespoons of coconut oil 
Beat together until the ingredients are thoroughly mixed. 
The recipe makes about one pint of shampoo the consistency 
of cold cream. 
: 
If you have oily hair, add 1% tablespoons of baking soda 
dissolved in 1 teaspoon of water. 
~ Dear Editors: 
ae 
Thirty years ago and earlier, before the “‘packaging revoluti: 
filled the shelves of most American grocery stores, there wa 
a very popular, pure soap and feldspar cleaning cake around 
called Bon Ami. Probably just about everybody in the coun 
used it during the early 1900's. 
- 
With this single cake, a cloth, and a bucket of water, you 
could clean just about anything—— windows, mirrors, - 
windshields, painted woodwork, bathtubs, sinks, pots and 
pans, eating utensils, or your body. First produced in New 
England in 1886, it has been in continuous production ever 
since. It simply was replaced on supermarket shelves by 
miohe? profit, higher packaged, faster-moving convenience 
cleaners. 
A few years ago, Bon Ami was bought out by us—— 
Faultless Starch Company of Kansas City, Missouri. Our 
attempts to get the old red and yellow Bon Ami Cake 
packages back onto grocery shelves haven't been entirely 
successful because the buyers considered the cake old- 
fashioned. 
: 
But we live ina time, | believe, when many “old-fashioned 
old reliable products are about to become New Products, a 
Products of the Future, as we delicately restructure our 
Priorities, re-direct technology toward what's ecologically 
necessary and therefore beautiful, and redefine “‘progress’’ 
so that it’s definition includes mankind's finite economical 
survival on this beautiful finite Whole Earth. And as 
- 
President of Faultless, | have refused to drop Bon Ami Cak 
from our line because | believe it’s too good a product 
to 
die, too much a product of the future, in the ecological ser 
It's ingredients, soap and feldspar, merely make elbow grea 
more efficient, and elbow grease doesn’t pollute! And it’s 
package is merely a paper label. 
We have recently tried running a few small mail-order ads 
to find out whether or not people ‘out there on the other 
side of the supermarket” are still interested in Bon Ami 
Cake. The response has been beautiful. 
\f your readers are interested, and still can’t find Bon Ami 
Cake at the grocery stores when they ask for it, we offer a 
half pound cake of Bon Ami at our cost plus postage and 
handling. It comes to $1.00, of which 48 cents is postage. 
That's not cheap, but it’s still a good buy when you consic 
how much it will do and how long it will last. 
Sincerely yours, 
Gordon T. Beaham, III 
President 
Faultless Starch/Bon Ami Co. 
1025 West 8th Street 
Kansas City, MO 
64101 
Old Fashioned Recipe Book 
It began in 1970, Carla Emery says, when she”. . .put 
together a table of contents—— pretty much the one you 
see in this book—— listing everything | thought ‘back to the 
earthers’ would need to know (whether | myself knew it or 
not). | thought a little and decided | could write it in about 
two or at the most three months.” Four years, two children, 
a bigger farm, and many thoughts later, she had printed some 
600 pages on the Living Room Mimeographer and fastened 
them together with snap rings. Thus emerged the Old 
Fashioned Recipe Book. /n it, Carla pretty much covers the 
essentials of homesteading, housewifery (and husbandry). 
Out of her experience she selects the practical and simple 
“methods, leaves the science to the universities and the 
refinements to the idle. There’s plenty to learn about living 
off your land before the esoteric details can be more 
enlightening than confusing. Carla begins at the beginning 
and sticks to the basics. Here & there she digresses into 
family anecdotes, mostly contemporary. 
Yet in Old Fashioned, as in the kind of life it defines, Jurks 
no nostalgia about the good old days. These recipes are for 
_ now for using what you have, and getting on with it. When 
the jelly doesn’t set up you have pancake syrup. Count your 
_ blessings. 
—Francine Randle 
Don’t buy land until you’ve landed a steady job within 
reasonable commuting distance. Less than 40 miles is what 
_ | used to say but since the price and availability of gas has 
become such a problem I'd say less than 20 now. Unless 
you’‘re very certain you can make it with some other cash 
crop. Don‘t buy anything new if you can help it. List what 
you need and then watch and wait. You probably don’t need 
all that anyway. Never buy on impulse. Buy only what’s on 
your list. If you see something you like go home and think 
about it. If it was really that good you can put it on next 
month’s list. Attend auctions, yard sales, go to second hand 
stores. If you can’t find a bargain—— wait. 
Buy out of season, that’s fall for animals. Because everybody 
is trying to buy them in spring when the grass is bursting out 
all over but people don’t want the expense of feeding and 
caring for them through winter. It’s winter, too, for garden 
and farming equipment. In the summer shop for heaters and 
your winter fuel supply. 
You can make a tortilla out of cornmeal by stirring one cup 
boiling water into one cup cornmeal. Then add salt anda 
couple teaspoons bacon grease and mix. Pat into thin cakes 
and bake on a griddle the same as for masa. If you make it 
out of flour you get another sort of tortilla. If you make it 
partly out of flour and partly out of mashed potatoes you'd 
have lefse, a Scandinavian dish. Or a Jewish unlevened 
potato pancake. 
Old Fashioned 
Recipe Book 
2 
: 
: 
Carla Emery~ 
rom: 
; 
' 
1970; about 600pp. 
Carla Emery 
~ 
y 
Kendrick, 1083537 
$10.37 postpaid 
Don't buy fruit trees mail order. The catalog salesmanship 
is great but in the long run | think you'll be happier with 
what you buy in person from a local nursery. The mail or: 
trees are cheaper. They are also smaller and in worse cond 
and get off to a much poorer start. Your local plant nurser 
knows expertly what trees are most suitable for your area. 
Their trees are already acclimated and if your tree should |
they will quite likely replace it for you at no charge if you 
ask. Buy the biggest (oldest) young trees you can afford. |
takes them long enough to grow anyway. 
If you want to can strawberries the university way pack th 
hot, cover with hot juice, and process 15 minutes. | freeze 
them. Imogene doesn’t have a freezer so that’s why she ca’ 
everything—— even things they say you can’t. Personally 
though | like my fruits canned and my berries frozen from 
the taste and texture point of view. | just pick, bag, and 
freeze. No syrup or liquid at all. Same for any berry, not 
just strawberries. It saves work and mess too. 
Any rabbit you don’t want to keep for breeding should be 
butchered when it tips the scale at 2 pounds, to bea 
potential fryer. An old rabbit can be stewed like an old 
chicken. Young rabbits are distinguished by their soft ears 
and paws—— stiffness is a sign of age. 
A quilt is a total of three ingredients. The stuff in the mid 
is wool, feathers, commercial bat, or old blankets. The 
easiest is the latter. When | have old blankets with holes o 
shrunk out of shape | make a quilt of them. The crazy tof 
covers whatever is providing the real warmth and a bottor 
layer is made of any material you prefer. | like flannel bec 
it’s cozy in bed. (I’m an advocate of sheet blankets which 
are practically extinct except for Montgomery Wards—— 
_ they are so warm and nice if you’re in a house that doesn 
have any heat at night). Some people use cotton, sometir 
plain, sometimes a pretty print. | strongly advise against t 
commercial bat which is the “‘in’’ thing to use these days. 
It’s not awfully warm and after about three washings 
it st 
to wad up and fall apart. 
’ 
