lid pre-industrial craftsmen make tapered holes for 
How did they make round things? Ina 
tt rd 
ow they 
manner, Mr. Blandford shows us the 
u Col 
a how they were made. Clear drawings show enough 
J 
1 do it too. Explanations of how to use the 
rettably too brief, but you still get a good idea 
did it then. 
eS 
—JB 
Country Craft Tools 
Percy W. Blandford 
1974; 240pp. 
$8.50 Postpaid 
from: 
Gale Research Co. 
Book Tower 
Detroit, MI 48226 
or Whole Earth 
e axe also had a straight blade. The value of ice for’ 
rving food was known from at least the early nineteenth 
ury, 
when country 
estates had ice houses (favoured in 
ica) or pits or caves (more usual in Britain). Winter ice 
rivers and lakes was used for as long as it would last into 
mmer. The tool that was used to trim blocks of ice was 
anded, with a long thin blade and a pick at the other 
~ 
-_ 
Be 
atid 
3 
wer 
we reverses verrry 
e saw was used with the ice axe for cutting blocks of 
Dr preserving food in an ice house. This was something 
a small pit saw, but with very large spiked teeth. 
are piece, with teeth cut like a file, was called a ‘drift’ 
jriven through a hole to true it to a square shape. The 
name was given to a tapered round piece used to true 
d holes or pull holes into line. 
TONGUE FU BECOMES A FELLOW TRAVELER 
aptain Mediafreak and Tongue Fu decide to make a 
extremely-low-budget film shorts. 
On Monday, they shoot Community Control, following 
ant carrying another ant on its back along the 
walk, 
with a record of He’s Not Heavy, He’s My 
her serving as the soundtrack. 
On Tuesday, they shoot Counter Clockwise, capturing 
Oup of pre-teenagers on the Carousel in Central Park, 
ing around a joint as their painted horses slide up and 
ne 
On Wednesday, they shoot Energy Crisis, immortalizing 
sales pitch for a portable electric artificial vagina in a 
elty items store. 
The next day, Chocolate Graham keeps her appointment 
e film partners’ abandoned newsstand. She joins in on 
cannabis-sharing rite while the TV news is on. 
iter Cronkite finishes delivering the weekly war dead 
istics 
when Captain Mediafreak suddenly snaps his 
and says, ‘It’s the body count— today must be 
(— who wants to take some acid with me?” 
iree swallow their LSD tablets with the aid of 
ed kefir, while Eric Sevareid gives his official 
of an upcoming space mission. 
Id 
do news analysis,” Captain Mediafreak says. 
don’t even show his body. They could just 
American Wind Turbine 
One of the most promising new designs. They claim 50% 
efficiency! We'll see. 
—JB 
See Popular Science, July 1974. To get on mailing list, write: 
American Wind Turbine 
Thomas O. Chalk 
P.O. Box 446 
St. Cloud, FL 32769 
“I'd say"’ —Captain Mediafreak ponders her question— 
“the tendency to divide people of different backgrounds in 
the guise of bringing them together.” 
“But what about the infiltration of counter-values?” 
“It's pretty schizoid. Susan St. James’ll go on the Merv 
Griffin show and talk about the importance of being a 
vegetarian, but then she'll be on McMillan and Wife and 
order a steak dinner. Or Blythe Danner’ll tell 
a TV Guide 
interviewer that she doesn’t wear any makeup, but then 
she'll wear makeup on Adam's Rib, which ironically is 
supposed to be about a liberated woman.” 
“And, finally,” Walter Cronkite is saying, “CBS learned 
today that the late Judy Garland had a clause in her will 
requesting that the makeup man from Green Acres be hired 
to apply the cosmetics to her face while her body lies in 
state. 
In Hollywood, however, Eva Gabor, star of 
the situation comedy, refused to grant him a leave of 
absence. And that’s the way it is.”’ 
“And that is the way it is,” repeats Tongue Fu. 
He takes out his kazoo and evokes from it a calming 
falsetto melody. 
Chocolate Graham listens for a while, then says: 
“Only an ordained Patoonga priest could play a kazoo like 
that. May | see your bellybutton?” 
Tongue Fu takes off his shirt. 
Chocolate Gaham stares at his bellybutton, which. 
stares unceasingly back at her... 
Flashiebackie: 
Luke Warm Sake is tattooing a third eye on the 
bellybutton of post-adolescent Tongue Fu, whose shaved 
head is betrayed by a five o'clock shadow. 
“Ah, yes, Anteater, bellybuttons are what we all have 
in common, yet no two are alike, as with snowflakes and 
fingerprints. Bellybuttons are my specialty, but once | 
tattooed everything from a ladybug on a lady’‘s thigh to 
a pornographic mural on a gentleman's entire body. 
“During the war | was taken prisoner and coerced into 
decorating the bodies of my captors. One officer insisted 
that | perform a tattoo on the space between his lips and 
nose. | had to be extremely careful with the needle. He 
asks, ‘‘what’s the most significant pattern you’ve observed?” 
The Storage Battery 
The men who make ‘em give what you need to know about 
choosing, using and caring for batteries, in simple language 
(thank goodness). 
Yet there are so many variables, that 
Batteries are still a bit of a Black Art even in this HiTech 
age. 
You'll get a good start understanding them here. 
The Storage Battery 
(lead-acid types) 
1969; 34pp. 
$1.00 
from: 
Exide Power Systems Div. 
ESB Inc. 
Philadelphia, PA 19120 
350 Ways to Save Energy (And Money) 
Jn contrast to sappy pamphlets put out by energy companies, 
this book really gets down to principles. The authors have 
done their homework, and arent afraid to even suggest that 
you stop using the appliance altogether! Amazing. 
—JB 
350 Ways to Save 
Energy (And Money) 
(In Your Home and Car) 
Spies, Konzo, Calvin, 
Thoms 
1974; 198pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
Crown Publishers 
419 Park Ave. S. 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
A dishwasher does not use any more hot water than hand 
washing might if it is used only when it has a full load... . 
Run the dishwasher only when there is a full load. Open 
the dishwasher and let the dishes air-dry rather than using 
the drying cycle. This can cut the normal energy consump- 
tion in half. The dishes should be hot enough to dry quickly 
in any case. 
e 
Bowing to the great American need for styling, the refrigerator 
manufacturers have hidden the condenser coils under the 
machine rather than mounting them in an exposed position 
on the back as was done earlier. This means yet another 
motor and fan in order to blow air past this concealed coil, 
rather than allowing room air to flow over the coils by 
convection. 
forced me to inscribe ‘Fuck the Japs’ there above his upper 
lip. Perhaps he has grown a mustache. 
“There we are, Anteater, all finished. As a Potoonga 
priest, | have rendered you separate but equal. That did 
not hurt as much as your anticipation, did it? Remember 
to contemplate the illusion of pain, and it will disappear 
as easily as removing lint from your third eye....”” 
Chocolate Graham is dancing to the beat of Aretha 
Franklin singing Respect. 
When the record ends, she asks Tongue Fu, ‘‘Shall | 
show you what the sound of one hand clapping is?” 
With an intensely gradual approach, she moves her right 
hand until it comes to rest on his left cheek. He does the 
same. Then their hands glide into a spontaneous hugging. 
They bring Captain Mediafreak into their embrace. It is he 
who breaks the silence. 
“You'll hafta excuse me now, I’ve gotta watch the 
Waltons.” 
Tongue Fu seems perplexed. ‘“Am | not supposed to 
follow the Waltons?” 
“| checked the schedule. Your summer replacement 
starts tonight.” 
Chocolate Graham is removing her clothes. Tongue Fu 
does likewise. 
And then, with neither one speaking a word, they begin 
to make love, each touch emanating from such total 
attention that it all appears to be happening in exquisite 
slow motion. 
As Captain Mediafreak watches the Waltons finding joy 
in the depression, Tongue Fu is going down on Chocolate 
Graham, and she is going up on him. 
Now she is astride him, their genitals mingling in a 
maze of colors. 
“There is only now,” he struggles to say, as if to avoid 
becoming lost in the mounting tension, but his psyche 
yields to her uninhibited spasms with his own inevitable 
ejaculation, so that he can barely whisper in the soft 
afterglow, “‘and that's already gone.” 
Tongue Fu has had his first contraction. 
/Continued, page 553] 
ADOT
LAOS
ame 
P
AAMT 
EY 
|
} 
| 
Se,
ee
cate
Mes 
i 
a} 
a owed 
