'D age 
problems in research from very elemental to very 
dvanced levels. From “Finding the Right Library” 
0 “Government as an Information Source” to 
listory Collections” and “Obtaining Out-of- 
Print Books.” Everytime | get lost in the world of 
information | use Todd to ground me. 
ot 
—Richard Green 
“ 
, 
Of all the lists of reference books available, | find the most 
useful and best edited is Reference Books: A Brief Guide 
(pub. by Enoch Pratt Free Library, 400 Cathedral Street, 
Baltimore, Md. 21201). This 
158-page paperback costs 
$4 25m 
4 
e 
A Low-Cost Home Reference Collection 
In steering a course between wasting time and wasting money, 
| have found that it pays to buy a certain number of 
: 
inexpensive reference books so that | can have them right 
on my desk, and to consult others in the library. Of course, 
each researcher discovers his own needs and use patterns, 
and each buys reference materials of particular value to 
him. But for general use | suggest this short list of reference 
book 
; 
1. The World Almanac. Published annually for a century, 
this is the standard American book of facts from which 
others (such as the Information Please Almanac and The 
New York Times Encyclopedic Almanac) were derived. 
Sold at newsstands in soft cover, it is the best available 
compilation of specific information in many fields, and 
has been at the right hand of thousands of newspaper 
editors for decades. The strength of the World Almanac 
lies in its excellent index, which includes both general 
subject headings and specific names. Every house and office 
should have this time-saving reference book. So should every 
student, from high school through the doctoral degree 
candidate. 
Book Sale Manual - 
Raising money by selling other people’s used books 
in a big book fest. How to. 
; 
3 
—SB 
Book Sale Manual 
| 
Elaine Mundy & Richard 
Reinhardt 
, 
1974; 34pp. 
$3.00 postpaid 
from: 
Friends of the San 
Francisco Library 
Main Library 
Civic Center 
San Francisco, CA 94102 
FRIENDS OF THE SAN FRANCISCO PUBLIC LIBRARY 
CIVIC CENTER 
We are now collecting books and records for our tenth annual 
Book Sale in April. 
Won't you help the Library by making 
@ contribution which our volunteer will pick up 
i 
(THIS COMING FRIDAY) 
- Cook books, art books, travel, poetry, drama and children's 
_ books are in particular demand at the Sale. 
Please leave 
- your donation where our driver can see it from the street. 
_ We will leave a tax-deductible form for you to fill out. 
if you have unwanted books in the future, please drop them 
in the Friends' barre] at your nearest. branch library. 
Large 
or valuable donations can be picked up by arrangement. 
_ 
We do not take popular magazines, Readers’ Digest condensed 
_ books, old texts or battered books. 
ies 
THANK YOU 
THANK YOU 
THANK YOU 
Hundreds of volunteers and a few paid employees worked 
with energy and enthusiasm to make the Friends’ Book 
le the largest and most profitable fund-raising event in 
the history of the San Francisco Public Library. Thousands 
of other Bay Area residents contributed to this success as 
do 
or purchasers of books. More than a fund-raiser, 
Sale offers a vast array of bargains to book lovers; 
the Library to the attention of the entire community; 
des entertainment for the whole family. 
Libraries 
You don’t have to buy any of the books listed in the 
Epilog or Catalog. 
Your local library can borrow any book they do not carry 
through the inter-library loan system. Many people are not 
aware of this service. Thelma Percy, our local librarian says 
often a person will come in, ask for a book, and she'll reply. 
“We don’t have it, but we can get it for you.” 
“You can?” 
You may have to wait a few weeks and pay postage, but it’s 
a way to see books you’re not sure of, or can’t afford. An 
outstanding service of the American library system, which, 
as Mrs. Percy says, is the best in the world. 
NOTE TO LIBRARIANS: why not set up a Whole Earth 
section in your library? Composed of all the books in the 
Epilog and Catalog. 
—Lloyd Kahn 
2. Congressional Directory. Published in hard cover after 
every biennial Congressional election, and revised semiannually 
between elections, the Congressional Directory is the definitive 
guide to the resources of American federal government. Most 
space is devoted to Congress and its committees, but there 
are also lists of federal courts and judges, and of agencies 
and officers of the Executive branch of government. From 
the Executive branch pages you can find name, address, 
telephone number, organizational structure and public 
information officer of an agency from which you seek help 
in research. 
After a Congressional election and pending the appearance of a 
a new edition (in late spring in odd-number years), you can 
clip a newspaper or magazine summary of election results 
and use it as a temporary correction sheet, at least for the 
names of new members of Congress. 
Now See: 
Government as an Information Source (p. 49) 
Government Printing Office (p. 51) 
Your Congressman Can Help (p. 54)... . 
Revolting Librarians 
Libraries are a Good. 
This book and the periodicals 
Booklegger Magazine (Suggested by Laure/ Osborne and 
Ed Morman) and Sipapu are by and for the youthful 
workers looking to make libraries a Better. 
—SB 
Revolting Librarians 
Célest West, Elizabeth Katz, 
et al 
1972; 158pp. 
$2.00 postpaid 
Booklegger Magazine 
$8. 00 /yr 
both from: 
Booklegger Press 
72 Ord St. 
San Francisco, CA 94114 
or Whole Earth 
Sipapu 
$2 /yr (2 issues) 
free to prisoners, exchange 
papers, & library school 
students. 
from: 
Route 1, Box 216 
Winters, CA 95694 
In the library we constantly faced this in the distinctions 
made between “‘professional’”’ and “‘non-professional.’’ These 
~ 
distinctions usually have little legitimate basis. We have often 
encountered *‘professionals” and ‘‘non-professionals’’ whose 
responsibilities were identical, but there still existed that 
differential in status (which, of course, was reflected in pay). 
Worse yet, are the instances where a ‘‘non-professional’’ who 
may have been working in a department for 10 years is 
subordinate 
to a “Professional” fresh out of Library Science 
school who has never worked in a library. Last year the 
supervisor of a department in a library we have been working 
with resigned unexpectedly. The rest of the department was 
made up of non-professional, support staff members. They 
ran the department by themselves for 3 months until the 
supervisor could be replaced. From this experience they 
Yellow Pages 
As Bill Mergano reminded us, no research reference book 
matches the yellow pages of the telephone book. On any. 
subject you can browse and call, ask for who else knows 
about what you know, and proceed to the heart of any 
matter. If you need phone books outside your area, 
Mother Bell will provide. 
—SB 
 upraRY @g9 
Finding Facts Fast 
(How to Find Out What 
You Want to Know 
Immediately) 
Allen Todd 
1972; 108pp. 
$2.45 postpaid 
from: 
> 
William Morrow & Co. 
Wilmot Warehouse 
6 Henderson Dr. 
West Caldwell, NJ 07006 
or Whole Earth 
6. National Geographic Society Maps. Rather than invest 
in an expensive bound atlas that is soon outdated by the 
formation of new states, and by new settlements in the 
Arctic and Antarctic, | collect the loose, folded maps insertea 
every few months in the National Geographic Magazine. 
Over the years this collection has become my self-updating 
atlas, measuring four inches across as the folded maps stand 
on the shelf. | bind together the maps of each continent with 
a rubber band, and can easily find the map | need withina 
minute. For accuracy of place names, clarity and precision 
in cartography, and quality of printing the National 
Geographic Society maps are unsurpassed in the United States. 
...9. Your trade or professional directory (if any). There 
are hundreds of directories and annuals published for the 
reference use of people engaged in the same general business 
or professional activity. Sometimes these books are known as 
“the Bible of the industry.’’ Depending on price and frequency 
of use, an individual can decide for himself whether it pays 
to buy his own copy or to use it in a library. Many directories 
and annuals carry paid advertising, which helps the publisher 
to bring the price down and gain a greater circulation. When 
undertaking research for the first time in a given business or 
professional field, you should become familiar at once with 
the standard reference work (or works) and acquire it if 
need be. 
Now See: 
Search Out the Trade Press (p. 74) 
learned that they were actually able to run their own 
department in a spirit that was non-authoritarian, challenging, 
and much less alienating. 
—Booklegger 
Hey, who was that 
lady | Saw Yow 
with (ast 
es, 
night © That was no lady 
That was the 
SENSUOUS LIBRARIAN 
First Things First, 23 Seventh St. S.E., Washington, D.C. 
20003. A “‘fe-mail order house”’ whose 12 page newspaper 
catalog is a complete blueprint for a collection: fiction, 
non-fiction, children's lit, pamphlets, posters. From old 
treasures to feminist publishing collectives’ latest, 
distributor Susan Sojourner’s got it all. 
Pa 
ted 
I've got nothing against silence. Some of my best friends 
are silent. I've got nothing against it except what it’s done 
to the image of libraries and librarians: it has WASTED us! 
—Revolting Librarians 
The list of books simply rejected when requested staggers 
my memory. The best-known that | recall was the Last 
Whole Earth Catalog, now a bestseller, and we still don’t 
have it, apparently because it has four-letter words in the 
text. (At last count the library had 8 copies of Portnoy’s 
Complaint and 10 of The Love Machine.) 
—Revolting Librarians 
SNO
