this is the best general purpose blanket weve seen. 
aie 
—SB 
Sheepherder’s Blanket 
$21.00 postpaid 
from: 
Eddie Bauer 
P.O. Box 3700 
Seattle, WA 98124 
Where do you get down equipment cleaned without damage? 
One place with a good reputation is this family co-op. 
—JB 
2-3 week 
service 
Sleeping Bags 
$7.75 
Standard Jackets 
5.25 
from: 
The Down Depot 
431 Belvedere St. 
San Francisco, CA 
94117 
Paul Petzoldt Wilderness Equipment 
Heavy-duty. rather than radical-light, as might be expected 
from an old-time highly experienced mountaineer. 
Even 
heaviest sleeping bag is of Fiberfill 11 ®, which is heavier than 
down, but is much better under damp conditions. It’ll be 
interesting to see if these prove to be popular. Catalog has 
considerable critical comment and is quite instructive. 
tS 
—JB 
Catalog from: 
: 
Paul Petzoldt 
Wilderness Equipment 
Lander, WY 82520 
BAJA TENT 
The Baja tent is the same design and size as our Expedition 
Tent, but replaces the ripstop roof with nylon mosquito 
Netting. Of all our tents, the Baja model makes the most 
ideal warm weather tent. Without the rainfly, you can enjoy 
the beauty of the night sky while being protected from 
both 
me insects. With the rain fly in place, you will sleep 
comfortable in even the most torrential down pours. 
the rain fly allows privacy in heavily camped 
unds (complete) 
$140.00 
Springbar Tents 
We’ve not actually seen them, but the idea of modular 
expandable tents is an interesting one. 
-JB 
Catalog 
from: 
AAA Tent & Awning Co. 
24 West 5th. South 
Salt Lake City, UT 
84101 
THE CONTRACEPTION CARNIVAL 
Balloons emblazoned with Monarch butterflies mating 
are tied to the trees. Balloons with red and yellow polka dots 
are being carried around by children. Balloons with 
sailboats on waves of greenish-blue are skittering above 
grandparents. 
Up close each balloon reveals its false legend: For the 
Prevention of Disease Only. 
Camp Crap is having a Contraception Carnival. 
The musical strains of Too Many People boom out over 
the festivities through the public address system. 
“Guess how many birth control pills are in this jar,”’ 
invites a pre-pubescent barker, ““and win a free trip to the 
overpopulated land of your choice!” 
“'Take a guided tour through the Fallopian Tubes,” 
shouts another. “Learn about our reproductive system from 
the inside!” 
Along the midway, gurus and disciples are playing 
Miniature Frisbee with surplus diaphragms. 
There is a dazzling display of costume jewelry designed 
entirely out of inter-uterine devices and library paste. 
An ongoing demonstration of Tantric Yoga keeps 
turning spectators into volunteers. 
A Vasectomies-While-You-Wait stand has no customers 
at all. 
The most popular attraction is Semenchase, consisting of 
several spermatazoa-shaped wheel-carts which can be 
propelled forward only by repeated pelvic thrusts of the 
Passengers. The first one to reach the goal— a giant replica 
of an ovum-— is declared Fertilizer. Bets are taken on the 
winner of each race, with all proceeds going to the Oregon 
branch of the Planned Parenthood Federation. 
“I'm sorry to bother you,” Primo Columbian is saying 
to Tongue Fu, “but did you know that you have absolutely 
no identity?” 
“Our computer check,” explains Notary Sojak, “indicates 
that you have no birth certificate; no alien immigration or 
naturalization papers; no credit cards or charge plates; no 
bank accounts; no elementary or high school diploma; no 
university registration; no residence; no telephone or gas and 
electricity accounts; no validated employment pass or 
badge; no evidence of treatment at any hospital; no 
registration with Selective Service; no military discharge; 
no Veterans Administration number; no Blue Cross or other 
insurance; no welfare case number; nothing at Internal 
Revenue; no motor vehicle operator's license; no arrest 
record; no fingerprints on file; no passport; no Social 
Security; and not a single membership in any recognized 
organization.” 
“But,” says Tongue Fu, “| know— who | am.” 
“And so do I,” adds Rosebud Zwalyimeh, who happens 
to have a can of Emko Foam in her hand, and with its 
whipped-cream-like contents she reaches up to decorate the 
top of Sojak’s hairless head with a spermicidal peace 
symbol. “There. That's because you work for people who 
have a vested interest in the tools of destruction.” 
When Columbian and Sojak leave, Rosebud says to 
Tongue Fu, “Well, the Contraception Carnival seems to be 
an appropriate environment to tell you. | think I’m pregnant. 
Jensen Pack 
One of the better new designs featuring ‘frameless’ 
construction, yet avoiding that infamous rucksack droop. 
Rivendell makes a super strong tent too. 
—JB 
[Suggested by Tom and Spider] 
Catalog 
from: 
Rivendell Mountain 
Works 
P.O. Box 198 
Victor, 1D 83455 
At least my period is late. But | can’t be positive whether 
you're the father— in which case I’d want to have the baby— 
or if it’s Serpento’s, in which case I’d want to get an 
abortion.” 
“Yet are we not all one?” 
“Oh, sure, but some of us are more one than others....” 
Flashiebackie: 
“| just fucked a man,”” Rosebud is telling Chocolate 
Graham, “‘who has been personally responsible for 
torturing and killing hundreds of people on the other side 
of the world. Serpento. | let him seduce me because | was 
trying to test him. But | still don’t know whether to trust him 
or not. ”” 
“Pretended intimacy has a way of boomeranging.” says 
Chocolate. “You know, I started fucking when | was five _ 
years old. Pygmies don’t have that kind of sexual hangup. 
After | was kidnapped to America | could see clearly that 
what keeps this society going is the manipulation of libido.” 
“But when | told Tongue Fu I'd slept with somebody 
else, he didn’t even mind. Maybe | was testing him too. He’s 
the first man I’ve gone with who doesn’t treat me like 
private property.” 
“That kind of monogamy is just another form of 
kidnapping. Just like dating is a-form of prostitution. Hookers 
simply eliminate all the middle people. The product is sold 
directly from the factory to the consumer. But, speaking of 
testing, did you see that anti-evolutionist guy on TV Ching 
the other night, who said that God put fossils on the earth 
in order to test our faith?...”’ 
“I'm dismayed about the Contraception Carnival,” an 
astrologer is saying on TV Ching, “because it’s concerned 
with the quantity of people on our planet, but ignores the 
quality. Did you know that there is an inescapable correlation 
between those who are born under the sign of Scorpio and 
the need to be authoritarian? Now my solution is so easy. 
All we have to do is promote a universal boycott of 
intercourse-leading-to-conception for, let’s say, only six 
weeks out of every year, from mid-January to the end of 
February, and within a few generations Scorpios could be 
completely eliminated from existence without the necessity 
of resorting to violence.” 
The astrologer is followed on TV Ching by a naturalist 
who states: “Although I’m not a Catholic, | am opposed to 
all forms of artificial birth control on the grounds of 
health and esthetics. But there is a way of determining 
precisely when you are ovulating by the simple method of 
taking your own temperature.” 
The naturalist in turn is followed by a pair of camp 
jesters in full harlequin regalia who periodically sit on the 
twin toilets and engage in snappy dialogue. 
. 
First jester: “Say, do you know how they originally 
discovered what normal temperature is?” 
Second jester: ‘Why, no, but it certainly must be 
fascinating.” 
First jester: “Well, first they got five hundred people 
and they took all their temperatures.” 
Second jester: ‘What'd they take their temperatures 
with?” 
First jester: “With five hundred thermometers, silly.” 
Second jester: ‘And then what'd they do?’ 
First jester: “Well, they added up all the temperatures, 
and then they took an average 
of all of them from out of 
the total,” 
Second jester: ““And— you mean?” 
First jester: “’Yes. It was exactly ninety-eight-point-six.”” 
Second jester: “‘Isn't technology wonderful?” 
[Continued, page 669] 
SUI
WON
