first this book might turn you off—— looking like 
tring of platitudes about love, sex and marriage. . . 
t it ends up reading like a conversation with your- 
f: signifying thoughts that were always there. A 
»ffirmation of life that goes nicely on a lonely 
yht or with your mate. 
—Andrea Sharp 
Some Men Are More 
Perfect Than Others 
Merle Shain 
1974; 128pp. 
$1 50 postpaid 
from: 
Bantam Books 
665 Fifth Ave. 
New York, NY 10019 
or Whole Earth 
n are taught that women respect them for their strength 
d that may well be true, but they love them for their 
nerability and men with tragic flaws are often loved the 
pst of all. Vulnerability is so seductive that some men 
rn to feign it, but that is not the same. Henry Miller 
ote of a young man who came to him for advice claiming 
had persuaded the woman he was trying to win to take 
all her clothes but then she would go no further. And 
en he asked what he did wrong, Miller turned to him and 
d, “You forgot to weep.”” 
Is gave sex to get love and boys gave love to get sex and 
ning girls was the favorite indoor sport. 
od marriages seem to function something like a buddy 
tem—— the people in them swim in their own waters but 
ep a protective eye on each other, and should the whistle 
bw, turn up quickly to hold each other's hand. 
It’s more 
portant today than ever before to know what your 
orities are because life links us with more people than 
hearts can hold, so men who know what they will 
to the wall for, as well as for whom, are the ones whom 
s nicest to be married to, presuming you're the one they 
e at the top of their list. 
one of the problems of marriage is that safety can lead to 
placency, then one of the advantages of being single is 
Wet one is never safe enough to grow complacent, and 
Ponstantly having to prove oneself often leads to growth. 
e Complete Reference Book on Vasectomy 
ve what, why, how, of male sterilization. Pros and 
30s approached rationally. 
Very long bibliography 
d directory of clinics and hospitals currently 
forming vasectomies. 
—DB 
The Complete 
Reference Book 
on Vasectomy 
Michael Greenfield, M.D. 
& William M. Burrus 
1973; 253pp. 
$1 .65 postpaid 
from: 
Avon Books 
250 West 55th St. 
Order Dept, 8th FI. 
New York, NY 10019 
or Whole Earth 
amily planning, one of the biggest bargains is a 
ectomy since it requires no further attention once the 
in’s semen has been determined to be free of sperm. Even 
ond the health and aesthetic drawbacks that have driven 
Ples from the condom, the diaphragm, the |UD, the 
ms and gels, and the Pill—-— these preventive devices 
equire ongoing purchases and/or visits to the doctor 
the duration of your birth-control years. For the rhythm 
hod, one has to include the cost in peace of mind since 
Partners know they are running a bigger risk of having 
Idren this way than with other methods. 
E cost of a vasectomy performed by a private doctor 
ges from one hundred twenty-five to two-hundred fifty 
lars or perhaps a little more in a few large cities. This 
frequently includes a pre-vasectomy counseling visit 
th both the man and his wife, plus postoperative semen 
cks for sperm. 
THE CANNULA ABORTION 
by Stephanie Mills 
Abortion is the commonest method of birth control in the 
world, 
It has also been the most dangerous, whether 
performed by physicians in hospitals with conventional 
instruments or induced by back country midwives with 
sticks. Women have risked and lost their lives terminating 
unwanted pregnancies since time began. 
A recently accepted technique may change all that. 
The accepted medical practice for abortion, dilation and 
curettage, subjects women to cervical laceration, uterine 
perforation, hemorrhage, and death. 
It involves dilation 
of the cervix by steel rods of increasing size. This procedure 
is quite painful, and may require general anaesthesia, which 
increases the risk to life. The cervix is “stabilized’’ by being 
held with toothed tenacula while the womb is scraped with 
a steel curette. 
It is incredibly bad design which attempts to 
make the uterus conform to the instruments and procedure 
they require. 
The Karman cannula is a narrow, blunt, flexible plastic tube, 
closed at the end and notched. 
(See illustration.) Attached 
to any vacuum-creating apparatus it effects a suction 
abortion in about two minutes. Since the cannula is blunt 
and soft, the risk of uterine perforation is virtually nil. 
Suction and gentle scraping of the uterus with the cannula 
seem to result in far less bleeding after the abortion. 
The cannula method is fast and (potentially) cheap enough 
to be used when a pregnancy is suspected, but cannot yet 
be confirmed by a test. 
In such very early abortions, the 
smallest available cannula (4mm) can be used, and no 
dilation of the cervix is necessary. 
In abortions requiring 
the use of a larger bore cannula, smaller cannulae may be 
used as dilators. 
Karman has devised a syringe for use with the cannula 
which incorporates a couple of features for maintaining a 
fail safe vacuum. 
(However, one Dr. consulted about the 
kit felt that the syringe is pretty flimsy.) A kit consisting 
of a syringe, speculum and a number of cannulae of various 
sizes will be distributed by several international groups. 
A program is being set up to train paramedics in its 
use. 
It can be expected that the device will eventually 
What Every Woman Needs To Know 
About Abortion 
Written specifically for the woman who is considering 
an abortion, it seems the best of the rash of new books 
on the subject. By far the most complete and accurate 
on what to expect emotionally, respectful of an 
individual but not isolated decision. 
Covers-legal, 
medical, relationship aspects; aftercare, contraception, 
alternatives, helpful agencies. 
—DB 
: 
What Every Woman 
What 
Needs to Know About 
Every 
Abortion 
Woman 
Helen S. Arnstein 
Needs ; 
1973; 144pp. 
Lior 
$2.45 postpaid 
from: 
Abortion 
peLEne SARISTEN 
Charles Scribner’s Sons 
Vreeland Ave. 
Totowa, NJ 07512 
or Whole Earth 
XN 
In order to avoid delay in finding the safest and best 
facilities for an abortion and in finding counseling help if it 
is needed in reaching a decision, | strongly recommend 
that a woman who is considering an abortion get in touch 
with either of two noncommercial agencies: The Planned 
Parenthood Federation of America or the National Clergy 
Consultation Service on Abortion. 
Both provide 
consultation and referral services free of charge. 
The Planned Parenthood Federation has affiliates in forty- 
two states and the District of Columbia and is constantly 
opening new branches. Several of its affiliates are now 
offering early-abortion services. Check your local 
telephone directory or that of the nearest large city to find 
whether there is an affiliate near your home. Should there 
not be, telephone at once to the national headquarters 
(address and telephone number in the following list) and 
ask to be referred to the nearest affiliate. 
The National Clergy Consultation Service on Abortion is 
a group of more than two thousand concerned members of 
the clergy—— ministers and rabbis in many states, who 
know the ropes and can shepherd you sately through an 
abortion. When you call the national office (see following 
list), you will hear a recording giving the telephone numbers 
of all branches in the United States. Then call the nearest 
one and you will be given assistance. ... Do not contact a 
commercial abortion-referral agency. 
. 
. 
. The National 
Clergy Consultation Service on Abortion, 55 Washington 
Square South, New York, NY 10012. (212) 477-0034. Will 
supply counseling and help on any problem related to 
unwanted pregnancy; see previous discussion. 
Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc., 810 
Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10019. 
(212) 541-7800. 
filter back to midwives and may, in time save millions of 
women’s lives. 
The no-touch technique for using the cannula minimizes 
the risk of infection. A sterile cannula is inserted directly 
into the uterus without coming into contact with the walls 
of the vagina (which are obviously not sterile). 
The cannula and syringe are prescription items, and are not 
for unskilled use. That doesn’t mean that it takes a doctor 
to perform a cannula abortion, but it does mean that anyone 
attempting one had better have some training. 
Further information on this technique is available from 
the National Women’s Health Coalition, 222 E. 35th St., 
New York, NY 10016. 
Stephanie Mills is a writer and director of Planned Parenthood 
who suffered an early fame in 1969 with a valedictory address 
to her graduating class at Mills College which announced that 
she, personally, was going to have no babies. 
The Energy 
Crisis after all, and the Food Crises to come, are really 
Customer Crises. 
Too many users. 
“Cannula”’ is pronounced 
CAN-ewla. 
—SB 
Telephone or write for the name of the affiliate nearest you 
(see previous discussion). The national office will send 
booklets on contraceptive methods on request, and local 
branches also give advice on contraception. 
ALINO
WOOD 
fundamental and crucial issues of all is the position of the 
truly unwanted child. Cases of child neglect, of the 
battered and abused child, are on the increase. Emotionally 
neglected children are being raised in rich and poor homes 
that are not really homes at all. Unwanted children fill 
not only our foster homes and orphanages during their 
growing years but often our jails and mental hospitals 
during their adulthood. An unwanted child is deprived of 
his birthright: motherly devotion and the tender, loving 
care of at least one parent. And this nurturing is a must 
if he is to become a mature human being and a responsible 
citizen. Motherhood now can be a matter of choice, not of 
calamity. The Group for the Advancement of Psychiatry 
, 
has stated in the report already quoted: ‘There can be 
| |
Concern for the unwanted child. One of the most 
F
nothing more destructive to a child’s spirit than being 
unwanted, 
and there are few things as disruptive to a woman’s 
spirit than being forced into motherhood without love or 
need.” 
A much better and more peaceful world may be possible if 
every child born into it is planned for, wanted, and loved. 
ee 
C-Film 
emi 
Contraceptive simplicity: slip this little item into the vagina 
a 
or drape it on the penis-tip before intercourse and you get 
= 
| 
effectiveness equivalent to vaginal foam—— cheaper and 
hy 
i |
easier. Now being introduced in England, originated in 
eee) 
|
Hungary, C-Film is available nowhere in the U.S. For 
aah 
|
sample C-Film, send $2 to Lloyd’s Surgical Department 
a | .
Limited, Commercial Road, Portsmouth, Hampshire, 
saath 
| 
England. 
' 
7 
Eye 
Pa 
:
[Sent by Stephanie Mills] 
= )
rad 
| 
a 
|
- | 
i 
<3] 
bn 
a 4 
are i
