+" 
a a oe 
aa 
Communes, Law and Commonsense 
A neat, light-hearted history of the legal difficulties. 
all communes are prone to. Or, what they 
‘Il use 
against you if they don’t like you, and how to 
fight back. 
i 
~ 
“The law loves families.” 
Law Books for Non-lawyers 
_ Some general comments: By design, the entire legal 
ystem (civil, criminal and governmental) is an attempt 
compensating for people's inability to relate to each 
other in understanding and trusting ways. 
It tries to do 
—DB 
is by imposing a set of formal and technical rules 
Ke 
id procedures as “‘solutions’’ to human problems—— 
~ 
perhaps, sadly, a necessary evil. But unless you enjoy 
dealing with personal problems in this way, your 
x trying to negotiate the system is going to be an 
i 
unpleasant and unnerving experience and you're 
likely to discover that you're not much good at it. 
_ For this reason, if you must resort to the system to 
work out a personal problem, you probably should 
let a lawyer help you. 
If someone else has snared 
you into the system to work out theirs, definitely 
_ don’t try to do it yourself. 
“4 You can greatly improve on the quality of assistance 
you'll be able to get from a lawyer, and keep his fees 
_ 
toa minimum, by educating yourself beforehand. 
People who are not aware of the general legal 
problems confronting them and who have not 
personally assessed the relative values of the alternate 
solutions waste a lot of lawyer’s time (equals dollars) 
\3 
and generally end up with less satisfactory results. 
_ This is the value of the various “be-your-own-lawyer’’ 
books. 
_ 
Remember, just because you consider the legal trip 
to be a cynical artificial game and a rip-off is no 
assurance that your opponent (be it some government 
bureaucrat, a creditor or an estranged spouse) is not 
getting off on it. 
—Andrew Fluegelman 
Defend Yourself! 
Notwithstanding the title, this book is not of the 
“do-it-yourself” variety, but contains fairly concise 
introductions to the legal issues involved in buying/ 
selling/repairing a house, starting a business, making 
a will, getting a divorce and declaring bankruptcy. 
_ It’s available as a “bonus” for subscribing to 
_ Moneysworth (Pg. 227) fora year. Also published 
separately as “How to Avoid Lawyers.” 
—AF 
Defend Yourself! 
Edward Siegel, LI.B. 
1971; 352pp. 
($5.00) to Moneysworth 
251 W. 57 St. 
New York, NY 10019 
How to Avoid Lawyers 
Edward Siegel, LI. B. 
1971; 352pp. 
$1 .25 postpaid 
from: 
s 
Fawcett Pub., Inc. 
Fawcett Bldg. 
Fawcett Place 
Greenwich, CT 06830 
or Whole Earth 
Can You Leave Your Property Any Way You Want To? 
It’s been said, generally, that you can leave your property 
any way you want to. But that’s not entirely true. 
As we've seen earlier (Section C), you ordinarily can’t com- 
pletely disinherit a wife—— although, interestingly enough, 
in most jurisdictions, 
a woman can cut off a husband entirely. 
And in several places, there are restrictions on your being 
able to dispose of your ‘‘homestead,’’ other than to your 
wife and family. 
‘Can you give your property away to charity? Yes—— except 
for the wife’s claim. But there are some conditions attached. 
A number of states invalidate such gifts if made shortly 
before death, when you have a wife or children. This 
apparently is based on the law’s fear that a person who's 
dying may want to “buy” his way into heaven, at the 
expense of his family. But if the bequest isn’t made “in 
contemplation of death” (say, for example, a year before), 
_ 
it’s generally legal. In several states, you can’t give more 
’ 
_ than a limited percentage of your property to charity, such 
_ asa third or a half. 
Communes, Law 
and Commonsense 
(A Legal Manual for 
Communities) 
Lee Goldstein 
1974; 124pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
New Community Projects 
32 Rutland St. 
Boston, MA 02118 
or Whole Earth 
A federal judge in California, faced with a commune arguing 
that it was a family, stated the law’s feelings about families 
succinctly: 
‘There is a long recognized value in the traditional family 
relationship which does not attach to the ‘voluntary 
family.’ The traditional family is an institution reinforced by 
biological and legal ties which are difficult, or impossible, 
to sunder. It playsa 
role in educating and nourishing the 
young, which, far from being ‘voluntary,’ is often compulsory. 
Finally, it has been a means, for uncounted millenia, of 
satisfying the deepest emotional and physical needs of 
human beings. 
Carnally knowing a bird in Pennsylvania can get you 10 years’ 
solitary confinement. 
Wipe Out Your Debts & Make a Fresh Start 
This book will te/l you all you need to know to decide if 
you want to go bankrupt. | doubt if you’ll have the nerve to 
do it on your own just from the book, but the author 
implies that you can. It will, however help you make up 
your mind whether that’s the route for you to take (in 
fact he encourages you to take that route). 
Some interesting contents—— There are many comments 
(In answer to a questionnaire the author sent out) from 
people who have just been through bankruptcy; many 
forms and papers to serve as samples of the legal procedures 
you'll have to go through. There’s a good index to help you 
locate specific topics, and charts to show what works in what 
states. 
Conclusion: 
If youre just beat down to a nub financially, 
this is one book you should read. 
The key chapter is titled 
“The Winners Game of Bankruptcy” all the rest are just 
supporting information to that one, so read it first, then go 
read the others that sound interesting. 
—Frank Armbruster 
How to do your own Divorce in California 
California’s new no-fault divorce is conceptually quite 
simple, but the forms are somewhat complicated. For two 
people who desire to terminate their marriage, who have 
divided their assets and liabilities equitably, who have 
agreed on the amount of support due, and who have 
“determined custody and visitation of the children, the 
do-it-yourself method will save them expensive attorney’s 
fees. 
The language used is very understandable; the whole process 
of divorce is made to sound reasonable. But one note of 
How to Do Your Own 
Divorce in California 
Charles E. Sherman 
Attorney at Law 
1972, 1974; 96pp. 
$5.20 Postpaid 
from: 
Nolo Press 
Box 544 
Occidental, CA 95465 
or Whole Earth 
When you and your spouse have trouble agreeing- 
Often, difficulties in dividing property (especially when 
there isn’t much) are mostly just a continuation of the 
Probably the preferred legal form for communes in most st 
is the non-profit corporation, Every state has laws providin 
for the formation of corporations organized for social 
welfare rather than profit. Different states have different 
sub-groupings for non-profit corporations, including fratern 
societies, private schools, etc., as well as the more obvious 
forms. 
In some states, the law provides for formation of 
voluntary associations, a form of non-profit corporation 
with simple filing and record-keeping requirements. 
Permissible incidental uses can be a particularly fruitful sou 
of compromise. 
It may be possible to define the commune 
some special way to make it fit the zoning laws, as, for 
instance, a religious order or church, a boarding school, a 
children’s home, or asa residential club. 
In this way it may 
be possible for a commune to maintain itself in a residential 
neighborhood without coming up against the thorny proble 
of proving itself a family. 
If such a designation can be 
gained, then any remaining zoning problems settle down 
to questions of floor area and parking space which can be 
negotiated on reasonable grounds without the emotional 
aura that would surround a disputed attempt to prove the 
commune was a family. 
9067 A DELL SPECIAL '95 
; 
: 
w TO 
; A LAWYER TELLS YOU HO! 
Wipe Out Your Debts & 
Make a Fresh Start 
Jerome |. Meyers 
1973; 254pp. 
$4.55 postpaid 
from: 
Chancellor Press, Inc. 
Box 1787, F.D.R. Station 
New York, NY 10022 
or Whole Earth 
caution—— the law, forms and procedures can change at 
any time so be sure to check with the local county clerk 
before starting the process. The main problem with the 
do-it-yourself approach is that you may not be aware of 
certain items of community property to which you are 
entitled (e.g. certain pension plans); or you may agree to 
certain provisions of the settlement, only to find out later 
that you shouldn’t have. The best suggestion is if you have 
any doubts about the terms of the divorce, find a lawyer 
who will talk with you for a nominal fee (around $10 to 
$15 per half hour consu/tation). 
—Dorothy Bender 
emotional conflicts which led to the separation. tf this 
is happening, and you can’t work it out yourself, there 
are only a few choices: 
a. You could decide that the hassle isn’t worth it and 
give in on all demands, just to get an agreement. This 
is a dangerous maneuver, not especially recommended, 
and should be taken only with forethought and caution. 
Giving in on these points could possibly lead to a whole 
new set of demands and confrontations. 
Make sure that giving in is just what you really want to 
do, and that it will mean the end of disagreements, not 
the beginning of a new chain of them. 
b. Talk to your spouse and see if you couldn't benefit 
by both going to talk to a marriage counselor (See A6), 
attorney (See A7), friend or other trusted person. Try 
to work it out. 
c. Go see an attorney and plan to spend a lot of time 
and money in legal proceedings. 
d. Agree with your spouse that you will go ahead with 
the dissolution, list all of your property and bills in you" 
Petition, and abide by whatever division the court make’ 
See B8, below. Be sure you agree ahead of time how yo 
will value the various items of property. 
