ho are interested in starting their own, or those who 
st want to know how they operate. 
/t’s not a hippie, 
»h-wow, pie-in-the-sk 
y book at all. It has workable ideas, 
ood do’s and don’ts, a step-by-step guide for starting 
our own, and 
an interesting history of the Berkeley 
onspiracies. 
The recipes make my mouth water, and the 
/ustrations are the finest I’ve ever seen in a cookbook. 
-Evelyn Eldridge 
Cookbook 
Lois Wickstrom 
1974; 144pp. 
$2.50 postpaid 
(while they last) 
from: 
Sproing Books 
1150 St. Paul St. 
Denver, CO 80206 
Il you really need to start is five families, one large car, 
uck or van, a money can and an accurate scale. (A used 
aby scale, which can be picked up at a hospital or junk 
op for $5 or less, is good.) A place to post notices is 
seful, too. You and your fellow members will need to trust 
ach other to spend money wisely and not to lose it. At 
rst if the group is small, it is not necessary to have a 
ookkeeper. Just trust that everyone will put the right 
ount jn the money can. There isn’t a conspiracy we 
now of that folded due to mistakes made at the money 
an. It is also a good idea not to have over 50 families 
one conspiracy. 
If yours gets that big, it is time to split 
to two or more groups. 
he Supermarket Handbook 
is book proposes to help shoppers find foods that are as 
etural and as unprocessed as possible. While not really 
“supermarket handbook,” its aims for its readers are 
orthy: to shop for and prepare foods close to their 
atural state, with an eye to nutrition and ecology. 
ost of the information is well researched with short chapters 
milk, fish, pasta, drinks, etc. Included are recipes 
br making your own baby food, salad dressing, ‘shake & 
ake,” and soups. 
There are very important concerns 
pressed, such as the use of hormones and antibiotics in 
imal feed. The reader should not take the book as 
gospel,” though, for there are some misleading statements, 
p., that honey and apple juice are especially nutritious foods, 
thereas actually they provide little besides calories, even in 
heir most natural state. 
The authors also say that canning 
estroys most of the vitamin C in canned orange juice—— 
t this just isn’t so. 
levertheless, the book has many 
positive suggestions, and 
courages a general acceptance of foods close to the way 
hey came into the world. 
—Betsy Wood 
The Supermarket 
. 
Handbook 
Nikki and David Goldbeck 
1973; 413 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid 
from: 
Harper & Row 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Pperidge Farm also uses only unbleached and whole 
eat flours in their bread, and while in general their 
oducts are made with wholesome, natural ingredients, 
ith the exception of the Corn and Molasses Bread, the 
routed Wheat Bread, and Sprouted Rye Bread all their 
eads contain preservatives. The Pepperidge Farm 
routed Wheat and Rye breads, by the way, list all 
e ingredients on the front label (they are considered 
pecialty”’ breads and are thus required to do so) and 
S quite an impressive list at that: no refined flour, no 
he sugar, and no chemicals. They taste absolutely 
icious. 
e Oroweat Baking Company is another outfit that 
le Cou 
edish 
Rye Breads. However, their Oatmeal, Protein 
id heat Nuggets Breads contain calcium propionate. 
The Food Conspiracy 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
Charles Scribner’s Sons 
or 
Vreeland Ave. 
Totowa, NJ 07512 
or Whole Earth 
AN EVENING WITH TV CHING 
The season progresses. Thousands of blankets with 
z 
families and friends are now sprawled on the field watching 
TV Ching and the sun setting pink and grey behind it. 
On the gigantic screen, FB! agent Primo Columbian and 
CIA agent Notary Sojak are sitting on the twin toilets, 
talking to each other. Nailed to the wall behind them is a 
plaque that reads: 
“Refresh my bowels 
in the Lord.” 
—St. Paul, Philemon 1:20 
Columbian: “Well, we have undercover children working 
the Pen Pal circuit now. My own kid is corresponding with a 
Black Panther kid to find out what their free breakfast 
program is really a front for.” 
Sojak: “Great. And we have counterfeit one-dollar bills 
flooding the country. The lines at banks and stores are 
moving like molasses, because it takes so much time to check 
‘em out. Not like your counterfeit twenty-dollar bills. This 
is much more equitable. Anybody can get stuck with 
singles. We'll see what happens when the wealth is spread 
around, Chaos, that’s what.” 
There is a sudden knock on the door, followed by a 
female voice saying, ‘Hello in there?” 
A duet: “Who's there?” 
*““My name is Innocence.” She sticks her frizzied head in 
the door and continues, ‘’I’m sorry to disturb you gentlemen 
but are you aware that you’re on TV Ching?" 
“What?” says Columbian. “You mean this is the outhouse 
where all that stuff comes from?” 
Sojak turns toward the one-way mirror and confides: 
“He's only kidding, folks. Always pretending to be dumb, 
that’s his style, y’know. The truth is, of course we know 
we're being watched. Twice a day. But | for one am proud 
to say that only in America could your protectors afford to 
be so arrogant. And | know that goes for my partner, too— 
right, Columbian?” 
“Huh? Oh, sure. Say, listen, Sojak, I’ve been workin’ 
on that Haiku.” 
He reaches down to his pants, which are crumpled on 
the floor surrounding his shoes, takes a scrap of paper out of 
a pocket, and reads: 
We stayed up all night 
Discussing the sense 
Of touch... 
At sunrise we fucked. 
. 
“Now,” muses Columbian, “I just gotta work out the 
line structure.” 
“C'mon, let's get outa here before you blow our cover,” 
says Sojak, buckling his belt and practicing his laugh. 
Innocence takes their place on the TV Ching. 
“| liked it better with five syllables missing,” she begins. 
“But seriously, | would just like to say a few words. Live 
your alternative. Thank you.” . 
In the field there is scattered applause as Innocence 
departs and Tongue Fu enters. 
Getting Organized 
First choose a member to call around the local dairies and 
cheese specialty shops. (You'll find them listed in the 
we pf 
yellow pages under “dairy” and “‘cheese.’’) The caller 
should: 
Explain what your conspiracy is doing. 
Ask.for prices on your conspirators’ favorite cheeses. 
Ask for a printed price list of the business’s entire stock. 
Ask if the business will deliver the cheeses, and if so, 
is there a fee for the service. 
Find out how big the blocks of each cheese are and 
if the business will sell you parts of them. 
Ask if there is a discount for paying in cash. 
After you have all this information, choose one supplier. This 
one may not be the cheapest of those who were willing to sell 
to you, but the lowest prices in the world aren‘t worth dealing 
with unpleasant people every week. 
“| am looking for my sister,” he says, holding her 
photograph up to the one-way mirror. “Perhaps one of you 
has seen her.” 
Tongue Fu is replaced on TV Ching by a Cowboy in his 
sixties. He places toilet tissue on the seat before he permits 
his buttocks to come in contact with it. 
“| understand that CRAP is an acronym for Coincidence 
Rationalization and Practice. Well, that sounds anti- 
religious to me. I’m here to tell you folks about the greatest 
coincidence that ever happened to me ....”” 
Flashiebackie: 
The Cowboy in his forties is standing in front of a 
saloon. 
A Yankee of the same age bracket is standing across the 
street in front of a general store. 
Each has a holster on his hip. 
They move clockwise, with all deliberate slowness, step 
by bowlegged step, until they are finally facing each other 
down the middle of the street. 
The spectators lined up on both sides observe in silence. 
An Indian removes a feather from the base of his braid. 
The Yankee says to the Cowboy: “You are betraying 
The American Dream.” 
The Indian says: ““The American Dream was a Nightmare,” 
and tosses his feather high up into the air. Tension 
permeates the atmosphere. The feather drifts back and 
forth, lower and lower. An unidentified harmonica player 
does a bluesy version of That Old Black Magic. 
When the feather finally touches the ground, both the 
Cowboy and the Yankee simultaneously reach for their guns 
and shoot all in the same motion. 
The two bullets travel toward their respective targets, 
but meet instead, midway between the Cowboy and the 
Yankee, in a head-on collision. They explode into each other 
with such fury that they create, while suspended in mid-air, 
the most expensive coin in the world .... 
“ And it’s still enshrined in the National Archives,”” says 
the old Cowboy, wiping away pieces of feces from his 
wrinkled tushy. “Strange. We wear our fake jewelry and 
keep our precious jewels in a safe. But you can never tell 
me that this incident was not personally ordained by the 
Almighty!” 
When the Cowboy leaves, a young man with a new beard 
and shaggy hair takes his place. 
“I'm a veteran,” he says, “and | have some good news 
and some bad news. First, the good news: We can finally 
pull out our ground forces and end the war. The bad news 
is the reason why: Because, now that there’s a new 
distribution set-up for our opium supply, we won’t need 
all those returning G.|. cadavers any more” 
Rosebud Zwalyimeh, watching TV Ching in the field, 
blurts out to herself, “I know who that is.” She runs to 
catch him leaving the outhouse. 
“| recognize you,” she breathes heavily. ‘You're Officer 
Serpento. Remember me— Rosebud? | signed an affidavit in 
your lawyer's office that | gave you a ride when your 
motorcycle was stolen. What are you doing out of uniform?” 
“Oh, well, | left the force so | could devote full time to 
organizing.” 
“But why do you allow them to continue circulating 
that phony Oriental ear story. There’s no mystery. It 
belonged to you.” 
“You befter forget about that. It was a stupid mistake. 
| should never have left it in my tool kit. But you've got to 
understand. That ear was like my credentials for infiltrating 
the Rotten Apples— that’s-a vigilante organization, 
consisting of one bad cop from every precinct— but | need 
a different image now. Don’t look, but we're being watched 
by a couple of feds.” 
Rosebud looks anyway. Columbian waves at her. Sojak 
kicks him in the ankle. 
“How d'you like my earring?” Serpento asks. ““I even 
got myself pierced for the cause. You've got to trust me.” 
[Continued, page 603] 
