~ 
GO BOOKS 
_ by Sumiko Okimoto’ 
Press, Inc. (Box 1021, Berkeley, Calif. 94701) 
s 
the 
best regarded series of English language books 
omething available for each level of player. 
Go 
for Beginners (1972; 151pp.; $2.50) and 
chniques of Go (1969; 170pp., $3.00), to move 
e fundamentals of the game and assimilate a 
ic techniques and strategies. 
For the more 
1, 38 Basic Joseki (1973; 244pp., $3.75), provides 
ampling of openings for Go games—— developing 
isa nust if you wish to become a serious Go 
or still more advanced students of the game, 
Concepts of Go (1972; 140pp., $6.00), explains 
tual framework encompassing all aspects of Go, 
‘to grasp until you've played extensively and at a 
‘sophisticated level. At this stage, there are several 
un’ books you might want to acquire. Go: Inter- 
al Handbook and Dictionary gives a rundown (in 
an and English) on what's happening in the Go world: 
s, location of Go clubs, reports of various.tourna- 
id a glossary of Goterms. 
The 1971 Honinbo 
1ament (1972; 206pp., $7.00) analyzes a series of 
Go games leading up through the Honinbo tourney 
t in Japan), with commentary on plays and strategies. 
seful 
for understanding a variety of playing styles; even 
rs with a basic grasp of Go can pick up pointers and 
ve their game by following these championship matches. 
ery advanced player will also enjoy Go Proverbs 
ted (by Kensaku Segoe, published by the Japan Go 
iation, available from Ishi Press; 1960; 262pp., $6.75) 
—— 
tegic points based on traditional Go sayings. Slated 
lie, 
eight live, and four die, six live. 
Jn the third line, four die, six live. 
n 
the 
corner, five stones in a row on the third line are alive. 
For 
> comb formation in the corner, da-me is necessary. 
_ The carpenter’s square becomes ko. 
ne 
re is no stone on the handicap point, the carpenter’s 
juare is dead. 
—William Wroth 
ia] This fascinating tiny book was written in 1873. Anybody 
¥ low 
of any thing more recent? 
Feng Sliui 
E.J. Eitel 
1873, 1973; 84pp. 
$2.32 postpaid 
from: 
The Land of Cokaygne Ltd. 
1, Jesus Terrace 
i 
New Square, Cambridge 
England 
rally speaking, all straight lines are evil indications, but 
especially when a straight line points towards the spot 
a site has been chosen. 
r is in the Feng-shui system always looked upon as the 
emblem of wealth and affluence. Where the water runs off 
traight course, it will cause the property of people 
elling there to run off and dissipate like water. Tortuous, 
0ked lines are the indications of a beneficial breath, and 
erve to retain the vital breath where it exists. 
Wrceet 
e 
N 
_ 
The 
best means to keep off and absorb such noxious 
valations is to plant trees at the back of your abode and 
tank or pond with a constant supply of fresh water 
1t of your house. This is the reason why in South 
every village, every hamlet, every isolated house has 
grove of bamboos or trees behind and a pond in 
International Fortean Organization. 
It has a quarterly 
nal 
reporting and speculating about weird events. $6/ 
9m: Box 367, Arlington VA 22210. £1.80/yr from: 
ert 
J..M. Richard, 31 Kingswood Rd., Moseley, 
ham B13 9AN England. Charles Fort was an 
ble snowman. 
—SB 
There is death in the ha-ne. 
Strange things happen at the one-two point. 
If a formation is symmetrical, play at the center. 
Against three in a row, play right in the center. 
The enemy’s key play is my own key play. 
The semeai where only one player has an eye is a 
fight over nothing. 
There are times when even a fight over nothing means 
something. 
In a se-me-ai attended by Ko take it last. 
Learn the eye-stealing tesuiji. 
Don’t make empty triangles. 
z 
Don’t make compact groups of stones. 
At the head of two stones in a row, play ha-ne. 
At the head of three stones in a row, play ha-ne. 
PART THREE 
THE PARTING ADVICE OF 
SAY WHEN DADDY 
Into the plush New York office of Buff Mogul 
Productions walks a secretary carrying a tray with four 
already-rolled marijuana joints. Tongue Fu, Buff Mogul, 
Sam Peckerpal and Albert Morse Code each take one, light 
up and continue their conference. 
Buff Mogul: “You wanna make a suicide film? You 
mean you would actually kill yourself right on camera? 
You'd miss opening night and all the reviews and everything.” 
Albert Morse Code: “’There’s a legal question to be 
considered here. It’s against the law to commit suicide. 
That may not make any difference to you, Tongue Fu, but 
we could be charged with being accessories after the fact.” 
Sam Peckerpal: “Doesn't it depend on how he plans to 
do it? If he wants to jump off the cliff, we could have a 
stunt man do that, and then Tongue Fu could commit 
suicide on his own without involving any of us.” 
Tongue Fu: “You have sworn to me that | would get 
complete artistic freedom. The film would be a fake if | 
did not take my life at the end of it.” 
Buff Mogul: “‘Unless you change your mind, right? 
Listen, you guys, I’m willing to gamble on it. | mean if he 
has such a strong desire to communicate that he’s gonna 
postpone his suicide for six months— ” 
Albert Morse Code: *’Oh, there’s another thing. Now, 
Tongue Fu, | know it’s about your life, but you're gonna 
have to compromise on certain scenes. Or are we all 
prepared to séttle for an X rating?” 
Sam Peckerpal: ‘‘Settle? That’s what brings in the 
audiences. | have an idea about the female lead, though. 
| think we should have an unknown actress do Rosebud, 
if only for the sake of image credibility. But we’re gonna 
have one fuckuva casting problem for Captain Mediafreak 
and Chocolate Graham.” 
Tongue Fu: “They have agreed to play themselves.” 
He swivels around in his chair and looks directly at us 
for the first time. 
“Oonga boonga, Patoonga. Everything you have seen 
so far is my suicide film. It has been reconstructed from 
that which | have experienced or observed. Plus what | 
have learned from conversation with others. The dialogue 
between Primo Columbian, Notary Sojak and the Chief 
Coordinator was based on notes that Columbian took at 
their meeting. They were written on the inside cover of 
his notepad, which | picked up at the amusement park 
in Oregon. Columbian threw his cover away because the 
divine vomit of Guru Golly Ji had found it. 
“Ah so. Buff Mogul said six months ago that | might 
change my mind about committing suicide. | have not. | am 
unable to stop thinking of Rosebud Zwalyimeh. A Patoonga 
Priest is not supposed to have any attachments. But 
everything | do aches with the lack of Rosebud. Life itself 
reminds me of her. Only my own death can do honor to 
such grief. But there is one more thing | must do first... 
Flashiebackie: 
“1 shall no longer call you Anteater,”” Say When Daddy 
Play cross-cut against the small knight. 
i 
Tight connections, diagonal connections, and knight’s 
move connections. 
/ 
If your stone is capped, play the knight’s move. 
Beware of the clumsy double contact. 
z 
Don’t play in direct contact with the opponent’s stone 
caught in your squeeze-play. 
A 
Don’t play adjacent to a cutting-point. 
Capture what is cut off. 
| 
Never try to cut bamboo joints. 
K 
If you have one stone on the third line, add another, 
then abandon both of them. 
Beware of going back to patch up your plays. 
The monkey jump is worth eight points. 
If you don’t understand the ladders, don’t play go. 
The poor player plays the opponent’s game for him. 
If you have lost four corners, resign. 
Pon-nuki is worth thirty points. 
i 
One point in the center is worth ten in the corner. 
To reduce an opponent’s large prospective territory, 
strike at the shoulder. 
i 
If you plan to live inside enemy territory, 
play directly against his stones. 
Knight’s moves win running battles. 
When your opponent has two weak groups, attack 
them both at once. 
Go Catalog 
A nice selection of books, boards, and stones. Send 25¢ 
to East Asia Book & Game Center, Box 24351, Oakland, 
CA 94623. 
Consider also the American Go Journal, $7/yr, or Go 
Quarterly Review, $75/yr., from: American Go Association, 
Box 397, Old Chelsea Station, NY 10011. 
—SB 
is telling Tongue Fu. “You are fully matured now.” 
“Does this mean | am ready for America?’ 
The blind old man holds out his fist and opens it. 
“Quickly, snatch this peyote button”— Zeeeeep!— from 
my hand.” Before Say When Daddy can even finish that 
sentence, his palm has been emptied by a tongue of almost 
invisible swiftness. ‘““Time to go, Tongue Fu. Let your hair 
grow out.” 
“What shall | do with this peyote button?” 
“Bring it with you. This is not an ordinary peyote 
button. It is the essence of thirteen peyote buttons, each 
of sacramental dosage, freeze-dried in our own monastery. 
You must save this for a time, should it ever come, when 
you are preparing to take your own life because of failure 
to uphold Patoonga tradition. 
“Not that tradition is all. But as a Patoonga priest you 
have been trained to maintain a constant balance between 
tradition and change. Thus, the more you are aware of your 
personal existence, the more you should simultaneously be 
aware of your personal non-existence. 
“As a Patoonga priest you have been taught not to 
believe in Heaven or Hell because these places cannot be 
proven to exist. But this special peyote button will enable 
you nonetheless to experience Heaven or Hell before you 
take your own life. | was once ready to commit Hari-kiri, 
but my curiosity to taste the journey this sacred button 
could provide, dissolved my compulsion. 
“| did not want to give up my option of committing 
suicide by committing suicide. There is no guarantee that 
you will have the same result. Now, if you'll excuse me, | 
have to take a good healthy crap, Sometimes it is more 
blessed to take than to give.... "” 
“And after | take my peyote button,” Tongue Fu is 
telling us, “I shall end this film. | do not know yet how | 
will take my life, but— 
The voice of Buff Mogul says, ‘’Can’t you hold off 
with the peyote till Thursday so you can attend that 
Beautiful Peopfe party tomorrow night?” 
The voice of Albert Morse Code says, “Are we gonna 
film the party too as long as Tongue Fu will be there?” 
The voice of Sam Peckerpal says, “Cut! Cut! Couldn’t 
you jerks wait with your dumb questions? All right, take 
two on the suicide speech!” 
Tongue Fu turns to them and says, “’No, wait. Let it 
stay this way.” 
“He turns back facing us and continues: “I do not know 
yet how I will take my life, but it will not be a way that 
would disfigure me. | recall that Judy Garland requested a 
certain makeup artist for her corpse. | would like someone 
from the circus to give me the face of a clown. Those who 
Pass my casket would do so with a smile. That would be a 
way to better my exit and not hurt anyone. 
“But | also do not wish to take up unnecessary space 
in the earth. So then | could be cremated. And then my 
family— Captain Mediafreak and Chocolate Graham— 
could mix my ashes with marijuana and smoke me.... 
The voice of Sam Peckerpal says, ‘’Hey, c’mon, Tongue 
Fu, we should shoot this scene again just for the sake of 
consistency. Shit, we’re not doing cinema verite here, 
y’know.” 
The voice of Albert Mose Code says, “Yes, we are, for 
the party scene. Hey, Tongue Fu, are you gonna bring a 
date?..."" 
[Continued, page 743] 
DI
ST 
I 
