\ir Rifle Headquarters 
rownup’s airguns. A far cry from the two-dol/ar 
daisy, these guns serve the same purpose as a 22, 
ly they do it cheaper and quieter. The European 
pring-action requires no repetitious pumping, fires 
he same each shot, and is a lot quieter than a 
ump-it-up or CO2-type. Most guns shown in these 
atalogs are of remarkably high quality. Prices range 
om about $40.00 for an all-purpose pistol to more 
han $400.00 for a match rifle. 
, 
—JB 
[Suggested by Alberto Robles] 
Airgun Source Book/ 
from: 
atalog 
Beemans Precision Airguns 
974; 83pp. 
Box 278 
San 
Anselmo, 
4: 
b1.50 a eerpaid 
an 
Anselmo, CA 94960 
Air Rifle Headquarters/ 
atalog © 
>1.00 
© 
Air Rifle Headquarters Inc. 
247 Court St. 
Box 327 
rantsville, WV 26147 
Airguns are not subject to the Gun Control Act of 1968 or 
most Other repressive gun laws. There are usually no purchase 
br ownership problems. Normally you can ship them, mail 
them, and take them across state and even international lines 
when traveling and vacationing... .Even top grade pellets only 
post about $2.00 per 500; the savings over even .22 caliber 
artridges would pay for a fine, precision airgun with only 
10 to 20 tins of pellets. 
... Human Scale: 
Finally, the more 
ou use a precision, adult, airgun, whether it be to fill the 
Pot or punch targets, or both, the more you may gradually 
tome to realize that here is an arm that is scaled to human 
ensitivities and perception. This is not easy to define, but 
seems that here is a tool that rewards your skill, intelli- 
hence, and precision with its own precision and a lack of 
nnecessary power and disturbance. The intelligent reader 
will find it intriguing to expand this concept. 
: 
og Cabin Sport Shop Catalog 
A fat collection of muzzle loading weapons, and the parts 
and supplies to make your own. 
If you think muzzle loaders 
ere silly, ask a man who owns one why he doesn’t just buy 
@ Winchester and be done with it. POW! 
Log Cabin Sport Shop 
Catalog 
96pp. 
$1.50 postpaid 
from: 
Kindig's 
P.O. Box 275 
Lodi, OH 44254 
reen River Rifle Works 
Finished, semi-finished, and basic kits for 
the Sam Hawken rifle (kit 
$195), Leman 
trade rifle (kit $130), and Squirrel Rifle 
(kit $130), all authentic copies of original 
muzzle-loading guns. Beautiful. 
They 
have a long waiting list. 
—Kathleen Whitacre 
[Suggested by Mad Tom Metour] 
Brochure free 
from: 
Green River Rifle Works 
Roosevelt, UT 84066 
Right-hand side of anatomical, 
One easy swing of the side-lever simultaneously opens and 
cocks this elegant gun. 
European spring airguns are generally the design-of-choice 
of airgun experts. These arms which release a spring-loaded 
piston to compress air at the moment of firing usually have 
a number of inherent advantages over pneumatics or CO2 
guns which release previously compressed air or gas: 
MUCH QUIETER 
NO PUMPING 
MORE ACCURATE 
NOCO2 BULBS 
MORE EFFICIENT 
NO VALVES 
MORE VELOCITY 
LESS REPAIR 
e 
Spring airguns are much faster and easier to charge. A single 
stroke cocks their piston spring. 
In the sporter models 
this single stroke will produce more velocity than the 
several pumps which pneumatics require. 
It seems amazing 
that such a stroke can generate more striking force than 
up to 20 pumps in a Daisy Powerking 880 or a Crosman 760. 
A single stroke that took less cocking force than one of 
the last strokes of the pneumatic guns. 
HAMM LOCKS 
adjustable match grips (Model 65-IM) 
The incredible accuracy of European precision airguns is one 
of the biggest surprises for persons who have just been 
introduced to them. Only a very few of the finer firearms 
can begin to approach the accuracy of the top airguns at 
normal airgun distances. 
A little imagination and you can supply a whole range of 
easily obtained, inexpensive plinking targets: Neccos, 
Life savers, tiny candy hearts, dry clay balls, hard white 
mints, soup crackers, etc. all give a satisfying disintegration 
when hit. 
The use of airguns for small game hunting depends 
largely on knowing what is happening at the point of 
impact. 
Information from the ballistics section of this 
publication can be useful, but it must be extended to 
field distances. 
It would seem at first that the more power 
that you could deliver to the live target the better. However, 
this is only partially true; the most important thing is to 
deliver the pellet exactly. When working with airgun 
energy levels a well-placed head shot is called for on most 
game. 
Pest Chasing: 
Pest elimination can be considered with small 
game hunting, but pest chasing is a different matter. 
Here 
you may be trying to rout orchard-wrecking deer or annoying 
dogs without really injuring them. Study the extended range 
ballistic tables carefully. A low velocity air rifle or, much 
better, an air pistol is called for. Use light, flat headed 
Pellets to prevent penetration. Experiment by shooting at 
a grapefruit, potato, or the like at various distances to be 
sure you are not going to cause cruel wounds. 
For chasing 
small pests a Yewha air shotgun loaded with rice, etc. may 
be useful. 
Good Tools That Shoot 
See Pg. 276, good letter. 
Recreating the American Longrifle 
A very complete treatise on the history and construction of 
this type of weapon. 
Detailed instructions for creating your 
own version. All presented by men who know and love 
their craft. Includes chapters on embellishment. 
—JB 
Recreating the 
American Longrifle 
Wm. Buchele and 
G. Shumway 
1966; 190pp. 
$6.50 Postpaid 
from: 
George Shumway Pub. 
R:D. 7. 
York, PA 17402 
or Whole Earth 
You might pretend that you were a young Pennsylvania 
gunsmith who finished his apprenticeship about 1812 and 
then spent the war years in Philadelphia doing contract work. 
The gunsmithing business suffered a depression after the war 
so you decided to go adventuring by shipping out on a 
whaling voyage to the Pacific. 
In the course of your travels 
you put in at one or more places along the northwest coast 
and became enchanted with the Indian art you saw. You 
brought abalone shells home with you as well as some 
examples of the Indian art. And after you returned home 
you built a couple of rifles utilizing this new art. Though 
it didn’t happen, it could have. 
In the making of rifle barrels there are two parts of 
importance to consider—— the inside and the outside. Only 
the inside shoots, of course, but the external form of the 
barrel seriously affects the quality of the rifle, i.e. how well 
it holds, balances, points, and looks. 
SUIC
WON
