York is not eS Your pane ae some 
scan be. Here are some recent experiences, 
me -published of course. Damned i 
inspiring. 
amned useful. 
—SB 
The Publish-it 
Yourself 
Handbook 
(Literary Tradition 
& How-to) 
Bill Henderson, Ed. 
1973; 362pp. 
$4. 50 postpaid 
from: 
The Pushcart Book Press 
Box 845 
Yonkers, NY 10701 
or Whole Earth 
Walt Whitman not only had some artistic know-how, he also 
knew how to wheel and deal. 
In 1855 he himself set the 
_ 
type for Leaves of Grass on the press of Andrew and James 
Rome in Brooklyn: 
ninety-five pages, twelve poems, 
somewhat under a thousand books. He got his review copies 
out and attracted some notice, but he wrote the best 
reviews himself. 
Whitman’s reviews appeared in the Brooklyn Times, the 
American Phrenological Journal, and The United States And 
Democratic Review. 
In one of these reviews, Whitman 
described himself as “‘“of pure American breed, large and 
lusty, a naive, masculine, affectionate, contemplative, 
_ 
sensual, imperious person.” 
Membership in COSMEP is open to any magazine, press, or 
_ newspaper of limited circulation. The majority of the 
members are literary presses or periodicals. Membership 
dues currently are fifteen dollars. Additional information 
can be obtained by writing COSMEP, P.O. Box 703, San 
Francisco, CA 94101. 
| then went home and announced to my wife, “We've founded 
a press.”” “Oh really,” she said, blasé. “What's it called?” 
1 said something bland, like ‘’Shirtsleeves Press.’ “That's 
no good,” she said. “Call it something else.”” And | did, 
“Something Else Press.” 
Directory of Little Magazines, Small Presses, and Underground 
Newspapers. Edited by Len Fulton and James Boyer May. 
Dustbooks (5218 Scottwood Road, Paradise, CA 95969). 
8th Edition. $3.50. Best and most comprehensive infor- 
mation about small publishers. Recommended. 
Observations From the Treadmill 
J have never met the publisher-writer-editor who calls himself 
_my but | have read Observations from the Treadmill, and 
think it is what he claims for it—— a successful one-man 
journal. He is also one of the very few writers in this country 
to work with some skill in the field of literary documentary, 
_ 
for while there is enough newspaper reportage in the fields 
of social realism to pave a superhighway to the moon, almost 
none of it is sensitive to the recalcitrant nature of reality, 
the paradoxes of its surface. my’s virtue it seems to me is 
that he approaches all the overworked themes of social 
pathology with a unique stance—— he has arrived at a state 
of simplicity in listening—— and so does not drown out the 
voices of his subjects by fitting them into preconceived con- 
cepts. Observations from the Treadmill contains an extra- 
ordinary amount of life in its pages, and none of it appears 
cg 
—Norman Mailer 
1 
Viking’ ‘s hardcover price of $12.95 is ridiculous. And so 
far no paperback. For my’s own periodical form of OFT—— 
you pay what it’s worth to you—— write RFD No. 1, Union, 
_ Maine 04862 and send $1.00 to start with. Z 
Observations from 
the Treadmill 
my 
. 
1971; 290pp. 
$1 2.95 postpaid 
from: 
The Viking Press, Inc. 
625 Madison Ave. 
New York, NY 10022 
or Whole Earth 
© 
y) t's 
‘s rascuthg to know that such time- worn duhdatdieatian 
exists, even if your first (and best) instinct-is to mischievously 
deviate from it. Advice on setting the more esoteric and 
scholarly type (poetry, letters & diaries, “Citing Public 
Documents”), and helps you completely understand the 
mysteries of Rights & Permissions (requesting, granting, 
“Fair Use” common law, etc.). Slick glossary; good reference 
tool for the whole production crew. 
If you need to know the 
correct type face to set your favorite TV 
serial in, and much, 
much more, this is your book. 
—Pam Cokeley 
> 
Pe 
>» 
A Manual of Style 
5 
(12th Ed., Rev.) 
S 
1969; 546pp. 
N 
$1 0.00 Postpaid 
from: 
The University of 
Chicago Press 
11030 S. Langley Ave. 
Chicago, 1L 60628 
or Whole Earth 
The chief reason for any style book, of course, is to ease the 
work of the writer, the editor, and the typesetter in achieving 
clarity and consistency within a publication. To say, for 
instance, that Congress. is always spelled with an initial capital 
letter and that the titles of plays are given in italics is to 
remove two cases from the list of those that must be decided 
on their own merits—— such decisions to be remembered from 
the beginning to the end of the work. When style rules go 
beyond their role of achieving clarity and consistency, when 
they become precious or merely doctrinaire, they must be 
changed or eliminated. 
Gauging the Length of an Index 
An inexperienced indexer may wish to have guidance on the 
appropriate magnitude of the index he is undertaking. The 
desirable length of the index of course will vary according 
to the nature of the book, scholarly books generally needing 
longer indexes than popular books. 
For a typical scholarly 
book this might be from one-fiftieth to one-twentieth the 
length of the text. That is, a book of, say, three hundred 
Pages might need an index of from six to fifteen pages, 
depending upon how closely written the book is. (One page 
of two-column index generally accommodates about one 
hundred lines.) 
a 
g 
No. 15. A young woman. Pregnant. Doctor Jim: “‘C’mon in, 
fats. 
I'll be away for a while in Africa, opening a new hospital. 
We'll have another doctor here next week. Doctor Stanley. 
A very fine young man. Then my wife Mollie will be here 
for ten days. She’s a very qualified doctor. Looks like one 
of them will deliver your baby. Unless your re pokey and wait 
for me. Then ah’Il do it.”” 
No. 16. A mother and two small girls, one with a bad 
earache, 
Dr. Jim: ‘It looks like she’s gettin’ better. We have two 
choices. We can let her get well by herself or give her medicine. 
There’s an advantage to lettin’ her throw it off herself. See, 
the body builds up antibodies to fight the infection. Next 
time she gets the germs, the antibodies will help her fight it 
off better. Let’s do that.” Both girls get medicine for worms. 
As Doctor Jim begins inside, | stand outside. The sun has 
come out. So has the heat. One car parked out front has 
three small kids in the back seat. The smallest one cries most 
of the afternoon. Mom is a patient inside. A man sits on the 
porch whittling and sneaking glances at the stranger with the 
‘publishing an ego-trip. It is. But it is not the vanity of 
book, buta tool ake copy-editor will 
find as useful as his photo-blue pencil. Alerts you to the 
responsibilities each person has to the manuscript (from 
author to typesetter), making it equally useful to someone 
on either side of the desk. Concentrates on production 
methods. . . its strongest chapter deals exhaustively with 
the composition of type and the reproduction of illus- 
tration. Comprehensive copy-editor’s guide, some foreign 
alphabets and abbreviations, gla index, ond. good 
browsing too, 
—Pam Cokeley 
ne 
pH EO 
Words Into Type: 
Marjorie E. Skillin, 
Robert M. Gay, Eds. 
1974; 585pp. 
$12. 50 ace, 
from: 
- 
Prentice-Hall, Inc. 
Box 500 
Englewood Cliffs, NJ 
07632 
or Whole Earth 
Terminal prepositions. The terminal preposition, as in ‘’This 
is the book he told us about,”’ ‘He is the man | spoke of,”’ 
is frowned upon by those who do not know the history of 
English idiom, but has been well established for centuries. 
The probably apocryphal child who piled up five (“What 
did you bring the book that |! didn’t want to be read out of to 
up for?”’) is joined by no less a prose stylist than Churchill 
(“This is the kind of nonsense up with which | will not put’) 
in defending the construction. ‘’He is the man of whom | 
spoke” is wooden; ‘‘He is the man | spoke of’’ offends 
only the pedant. 
In any case, the copy editor should not 
create a strained sentence in order to avoid a terminal 
— 
Preposition. 
f 
This line is set in 6-point 
This line is set in 7-point 
This line is set in 8-point 
This line is set in 9-point 
This line is set in 10-point 
This line is set in 11-point 
This line is set in 12-point . 
This line is set in 14-point 
cameras. Mountain people are quiet, conservative, suspicious, 
superstitious, emotional, and easily triggered. There are 
frequent explosions of violence. Guns are a way of life. 
Turpin says that the Montagnards in Vietnam have much the 
same temperament. 
| sit down on the porch, three or four feet from the whittler. 
He rolls a cigarette with tobacco from a can of Prince Albert. 
Neither one of us speaks. After about ten minutes, his mouth 
begins to purse up. Finally, without looking up from his 
whittling, he says in a quiet monotone: ‘Had ta git a new 
batt’ry t'is mornin’. T’other one jus’ plum’ wore out.” 
That's all. | wait for more. Nothing. Sol ask: ‘How much 
did it cost?” 
: 
A long pause. Then: ‘Twenty-two dollars with fax. 
eee 
“That's a lot of money.” 
: 
‘ 
Pause. ‘‘Yup.’’ He gets up and goes inside. 
The Self-Publishing Writer 
Grumbling and giving tips to one another. 
é 
Vanes 
The Self-Publishing Writer 
from: 
Sibley S. Morrill, Ed. 
The Self- Publishing Writer 
P.O. Box 24. 
$7.50 /yr 
San Francisco, CA 94101 
A reviewer of the Publish-It- Yourself Handbook called: self- 
vanities press he thinks it. Commercial Publication is the 
pleasure cruise of ego-trips, when a whole crew is working 
to get your words into print and publicize and distribute 
your book while you sit on a deckchair in the sun above it 
all, having your ego waited on—— that is the royal ego-trip. 
Self-publishing is the ego-trip of sailing your own boat with 
all the work and risks and no guarantees and having to believe 
in your own worth without the papal benediction o 
ze} 
Publisher. 
