per 
ea 
ye 
jrows food in places where crops were_ 
ial or Non-existent—— blowing sand 
apartment balconies. 
It also uses 30 
ter than growing in soil(!), not to 
you don’t need any gasoline for your roto- 
u can grow yourself a hydroponic tomato 
irections in just about any of the books 
especially simple and straightforward, and 
section on use of organic materials in 
from: 
Oxford University Press 
16-00 Pollitt Drive 
Fair Lawn, NJ 07410 
or Whole Earth 
; 167pp. 
droponics as a Hobby; 
Hydroponic Gardening 
ae 
: 
Raymond Bridwell 
ue eae (Pg. 59) $.25 
1972: 224pp. 
of 
Illi 
is 
$6.95 postpaid 
ge 
of Agriculture 
from: 
sion Svs. in Agriculture 
Woodbridge Press 
ome Economics 
Box 6189 
1L 61801 
Santa Barbara, CA 93111 
THE DEVELOPMENT OF A NEW FRIENDSHIP 
The abandoned newsstand where Captain Mediafreak 
s is furnished sparsely: color TV set; AM-FM radio; 
stereo, records and earphones; tape recorder; 
ography equipment; motion picture camera, tripod and 
ns of film; stacks of newspapers, magazines and 
underground comic books, including complete collections 
of Zap and Slow Death. 
- 
Plus a telephone, which he uses mostly to call up radio 
talk shows, which is what he’s in the middle of doing at the 
oment. 
\Y AY 
S 
SSR 
“So the reason I’m against all censorship is that it's 
diametrically Opposed to the essential purpose of education. 
People have to be allowed to make up their own minds.” 
‘All right, thank you, caller,” a professional voice 
interrupts. “Appreciate your point of view.” 
Captain Mediafreak hangs up, dials the same number 
is put on hold. When he goes on the air again, he uses 
erent voice, somewhat nasal in quality. 
d like to disagree with that previous gentleman. I’m 
nsorship. My wife uses the television as a babysitter, 
NIC S by Kathleen Whitacre 
Beginner’s Guide 
to Hydroponics 
James Sholto Douglas 
1972; 156pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
Drake Publishers Inc. 
381 Park Ave. South 
New York, NY 10016 
Soilless Culture (Pg. 59) 
T. Saunby 
1953 
$2.45 postpaid 
from: 
Transatlantic Arts Inc. 
Trade Department 
North Village Green 
Levittown, NY 11756 
The Complete Guide 
BIBRABY BOOKS 
to Soilless Gardening 
Soilless Growth 
W. F. Gericke 
of Plants, 2nd ed. 
Soilless Culture 
C. Ellis & M.S. Swaney 
Simplified 
1947, revised by 
A. Laurie 
T. Eastwood 
1940 
The Water Culture 
Growing Plants 
Method of Growing 
Without Soil 
(Vermiculaponics) 
M. Bentley, 1955 
Commercial Hydroponics 
M. Bentley 
(3 copies in U.S.A. 
Library of Congress has it.) 
Plants Without Soil 
D.R. Hoagland & 
D.1. Arnon, 1950 
Successful Gardening 
Without Soil 
C. E. Ticquet, 1952 
Suspicion 
Hydroponics: 
I’m suspicious. A good gardner told me that 
when you feed the plants chemicals this way, without soil, 
they don’t get the trace elements. 
If | were a plant |’d rather 
get my nourishment from roots in the soil, rather than intra- 
venous injections. Also, what about the energy costs in 
producing those artifical fertilizers? 
—Lloyd Kahn 
you know, and there’s an awful lot of violence. Our 
children are beginning to take all the violence for granted, 
and there are virtually no options. That’s not entertainment, 
it’s brainwashing. And in my opinion, brainwashing 
should be censored....”’ 
Flashiebackie: 
Young Lieutenant Mediafreak has all of his arms and 
legs. His curly hairlocks are shorter. He sits in the front 
row of a movie theater, watching his first Andy Warhol 
film. It’s called Audience, and consists entirely of 
leisurely panning over reactions of the people in each 
audience waiting for the scene on the screen to change. 
Therefore it’s different at every showing. 
When he sees himself, Lieutenant Mediafreak 
immediately opens his guitar case and takes out an electric 
saw. He proceeds to saw off his left leg, hearing himself 
scream in utter pain, as surrounding faces on the screen 
express their encouragement. 
“Right on!” the audience yells. 
Then his right leg. 
“Right off!’’ the audience yells. 
Then his left arm. 
“Right arm!” the audience yells. 
Lieutenant Mediafreak faints. The electric saw falls on 
the ground, further dismembering the bloody limbs already 
lying there as though it were in heat. 
An usher calls the police. 
The police call the newspapers. 
The New York Daily News headline: 
Self-Mutilator Denies 
It Was a Drug Freakout 
The New York Times headline: 
Perpetrator of Public Masochism Claims 
Artistic Statement Was Only Intention 
The New York Post headline: 
Movie Victim Sues Warhol 
For Invasion of Privacy.... 
It never occurs to Harry Reasoner that while he is 
delivering his Commentary on the ABC Evening News, 
Captain Mediafreak is initiating his house guest into the 
rite of cannabis-sharing. 
Tongue Fu inhales the smoke carefully; coats his lungs 
with it.” 
No, No, Nanette is playing. They wait outside until the 
specialized form of yoga.” 
strikes Tongue Fu as being more mellow than the pizza 
ya spare a quarter for a Pina Colada?” 
Chief benefits 
. Higher crop yields than are obtainable in ordinary soil. 
. Relative freedom from soil diseases. 
. Quicker growth owing to plentiful supply of nutrients. 
. Reduction in growing area by means of closer planting. 
. Very consistent crops. 
. Operating and maintenance costs are less than in 
horticulture. 
. Standard methods making work easy. 
. No hard manual labour or rough toil. 
. Better control of crops and planting. 
. Weeds are practically non-existent. 
. 
Excellent quality of fruits and flowers. 
. Good drainage and no waterlogging. 
. Economy of labour and lower wages bill. 
. No dirt and no smells. 
. Absolute cleanliness and no risk of catching diseases 
borne in the animal excreta used as soil manure. 
ARWN2=0OMN 
OAMaAwWN= 
16. Some crops may be grown out of season, thus 
capturing luxury markets. 
17. Fruits of high mineral content or special dietary value 
can be produced at will. 
18. Supplies of expensive organic manures are not necessary. 
19. Less fertilizers are needed. 
20. Water can be economized in, and the best use made of 
irrigation facilities. 
21. Crops can be grown in places where ordinary horticulture 
or agriculture is impossible. 
. Hydroponics gives an immediate return. There is no long 
period of waiting as there must always be with soil. 
23. The efficiency of a hydroponicum can be maintained 
indefinitely at negligible cost. 
24. Wastage of fertilizers never occurs. 
25. 
It is simple to operate, economical to install, easy to 
maintain, and suitable, with local modifications, for any 
district. 
26. A minimum of equipment is required. 
27. Full use can be made of indigenous materials and 
substitutes. 
28. By adhering properly to simple rules, success is certain. 
N N 
with resin; then, in the very act of exhaling, gently passes 
the joint, which he holds, not between his fingers, but 
curled in the tip of his long parched tongue. 
That night they decide to go out for dinner and the 
theater to celebrate their new friendship. Tongue Fu 
carries the basket from which Captain Mediafreak navigates 
their course. They arrive at an elegant hotel on Park Avenue. 
Since they are the only ones in the elevator, Tongue Fu 
takes the liberty of pressing the button for the seventeenth 
floor with his tongue. As the numbers light up, he counts 
out loud. 
“* ..nine...ten...eleven...twelve...fourteen— where is 
thirteen?” 
“Listen, there’s a lot of places— office buildings, 
apartment houses, hotels— where they had the architect 
skip the thirteenth floor because it’s supposed to be bad 
luck. There’s even airplanes where they don’t have a number 
thirteen seat. It’s the same principle. They don’t wanna 
lose any business. They’re just catering to superstitious 
people, is all. The worst part of it is, the people who live 
on the fourteenth floor— they think they‘re getting away 
Walking along the corridor, they stop at a door that 
has a cart in front of it, containing a pair of trays with 
leftover food from Room Service. They share these 
mostly-eaten delicacies in the stairwell. Dessert is found 
on the floor below. 
Then they depart for the theater, where a revival of 
first act intermission. Mingling with the audience in the 
lobby, they return inside for the second act, finding an 
available seat in the balcony. Tongue Fu holds the basket 
on his lap. 
“Why do they call it legitimate theater?” he asks on the 
way home. “‘Is there such a thing as illegitimate theater?” 
“Absolutely,” replies Captain Mediafreak. “‘Real life. 
Or maybe the movies.” 
“| have never been to a movie.” 
“You oughta see Deep Throat. Some people say that’s 
illegitimate.’ 
“| have heard the phrase. Other boys at the monastery 
in Japan used to whisper about deep throat as a very 
They stop to watch a potato knish maker. His style 
maker, perhaps because his task is less hectic. 
A wizened panhandler straggles by and sputters, “Can 
“lam sorry, but | do not have money. But come join 
us. Regard the potato knish maker aid the potato to 
achieve knishhood.” 
“Aw, never mind,” says the panhandler, only to be 
replaced by a neatly-suited thin black man wearing a fedora 
and politely offering to sell 
a copy of Muhammad Speaks. 
From his basket, Captain Mediafreak pipes up: “’No, 
thanks. I’m a subscriber.” 
[Continued, page 519] 
ISM
UN
