excellent guide for the beginner. 
5 
wing a ewe to go about it” section, he lists rivers and 
by state. Many of the rivers listed are smooth 
her than rapids. One of the best features is an index 
by all cities in the U.S. of over 100,000 population, listing 
rivers” within a 3-hour drive, or 125-mile radius. Colwell also 
includes a number of detailed maps. 
goth books have useful appendixes listing canoeing and 
ayaking organizations, outfitters, and additional sources of 
iver running information. 
—Nancy Lane 
Introduction to Water 
Trails in America 
Robert Colwell 
1973; 221pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
Stackpole Books 
Cameron and Kelker Sts. 
Harrisburg, PA 17105 
or Whole Earth 
August 5.—— With some feeling of anxiety we enter anew 
canyon this morning. We have learned to observe closely the 
texture of the rock. In softer strata we have a quiet river, in 
harder we find rapids and falls. Below us are the limestones 
and hard sandstones which we found in Cataract Canyon. 
This bodes toil and danger. 
You will be too busy to tell him this, but you know that 
arterial blood pressure is rarely higher than 200 mms of 
ee 
Have him watch the blood ooze between his fingers. It slows 
down before it,stops. Keep the pressure on ten minutes 
longer, then have a third crewman (who has gotten out the 
first-aid kit) put a tight bandage around the cut head. Chances 
are pretty good by this time (ten minutes after you began 
mouth-to-mouth and five minutes after your helper had 
bandaged the head) that your victim is breathing on his own. 
He is “coming to’; dazed but conscious. 
Left unattended 
and apneic (not breathing) while his head was bandaged, he 
might never have made it. But he has, thanks to your skill 
and knowledge. 
Now you have leisure to plan. You surely won't leave him 
lying there on the deck. Why not get him below to his 
bunk? There may be other injuries that passed unnoted in 
the rush to revive him. Sailors are a sturdy breed. He may 
insist, ‘“I‘m all right now,” and try to get to his feet unaided. 
Assert your authority—— make him stay put. It is most 
embarrassing, and occurs in hospitals all the time, to overlook 
the injuries other than the obvious ones that attracted your 
attention at the time of the accident. The results of such 
neglect may be disastrous. 
You must know how badly he is hurt. Has he hidden injury? 
How far away is medical help? Will you need such help, or 
can you handle this yourself? 
We will assume he had a complete physical checkup by his 
physician before departure. Therefore, he has no chronic 
diseases that he and you do not know about. 
To examine him: 
1. Start at the top. He is conscious, so ask him where it 
hurts. His head is pretty well covered by the bandage. 
2. Shine a bright flashlight into his eyes, one at a time. 
The pupils should be equal, and each should contract, 
or narrow. Unequal pupils, or one that does not 
- contract with the light, indicates a brain concussion 
_ of a serious nature. (We will talk about head injury 
and the management of the unconscious patient later 
on.) 
3. Gently move his neck, feel the entire length of his 
spine with your fingertips, from the base of his skull 
right down to, and including, his tail bone. Extreme 
tenderness or soreness should make you suspect a 
spinal injury. 
4. Ask him to take a deep breath. A sharp pain in his 
chest may mean broken ribs. Press hard on the 
breastbone with your right hand and the mid-back 
behind with your left. This will cause pain at the 
site of a broken rib, just as pressure on opposite sides 
of a barrel springs the hoops. 
5. Feel his belly gently with the flat of your hand. He 
may have internal injuries that won't be evident for — 
several hours, but if his belly-wall muscles are 
contracted hard, and he cannot relax them when you 
ask him to, he probably has some such injury. 
6. Finally have him move all fingers, toes, both hands, 
feet, ankles, wrists, arms, legs, elbows, knees, 
shoulders, and hips. Note if any of these hurt or 
are deformed or lying at an odd angle. . 
7. Finally you conclude: 
a. There is no serious brain damage. He is conscious, 
alert, knows the day of the week (as well as 
anyone ever does on a long cruise), where he is, 
d is well oriented. His eye pupils are equal and 
¢ 
at 
ARIZOfA 
i 
es en 
Pare Y”) 
1 
erent or nreecer 
ai 
uke 
AsO 
paelvemuern 
te TN 
aioe 
G48 NKCATBD) 
AOGER CREEK 
rf 
«Town 
| | 
S)  ieaay crave 
manos 
"aT OOD 
1 Canyon 
U.S. 69 
} 
= 
slecuaall 
om 
| 
[punannn? | 
pum 
Pra” _| 
Major Powell called the new gorge Marble Canyon. It quickly 
deepened and there were many rapids. Powell and his brother 
climbed the canyon walls to view an eclipse of the sun, but 
clouds covered the sky. During a storm, they lost their way 
in the dusk and were forced to spend a wet and miserable 
night on a high ledge. The next day the expedition reached 
Red Wall Cavern, an overhang carved by the river on the 
outside of a bend, Powell speculated that if used as a theater, 
the vast interior should hold fifty thousand people. 
“Objection,’’ he wryly added, ‘might be raised. . 
. for at 
high water the floor is covered with a raging flood.” 
August 9.—— The river turns sharply to the east and seems 
inclosed by a wall set with a million brilliant gems. What can 
it mean? Every eye is engaged, every one wonders. On coming 
nearer we find fountains bursting from the rock high overhead, 
and the spray in the sunshine forms the gems which bedeck 
the wall. The rocks below the fountain are covered with 
mosses and ferns and many beautiful flowering plants. We 
name it Vasey’s Paradise, in honor of the botanist who 
traveled with us last year. 
In CONNECTICUT the canoeist might consider trips on the 
Still River and down the Housatonic, the Scantic River to 
Whitewater Rafts 
Rafting is sometimes the only way to get down a 
river. They flow resiliently along as part of the water, 
and can be packed into remote areas. For mild rapids, 
a “Hong Kong Special” discount store raft will do if 
loaded to % rated capacity. For serious work you'll 
need a serious raft from a reputable manufacturer. 
These aren’t cheap: $400.00—$1500.00 
Two good makers are: 
JB 
Avon Rubber Co. Ltd. (Pg. 284) 
Inland Marine Co. 
79 E. Jackson St. 
Wilkes Barre 
PA 18701 
Rubber Fabricators, Inc. 
Richwood, WV 26261 
Length: 12’ 
Beam: 5’6” 
Tube diameter: 16” 
Tube material: 9A 
Bottom material: 9A 
Air chambers: 2 plus 1 seat 
Accessories included: D-rings 
~ 
Options: Class 7 bottom 
Weight: 85 Ibs. 
Color: Black 
Built to 7-man military assault raft specifications, modified 
for white water use. 
1,000,000 Miles of Canoe anc Hiking Routes 
A super bibliography listing detail maps for North 
American canoeists, hikers and bikers. Also many 
related books. Each item is briefly described. This 
is the most complete we’ve seen. 
—JB 
1,000,000 Miles of — from: 
iki 
Ohio Canoe Adventures, 
Inc. 
oe Bins 
P.O. Box 2092 
Sheffield Lake, OH 44054 
$1.00 postpaid 
CANOE TKRAIL GUIDES 
242 - TIMAGAMI TO LAKE WANAPITEI ~ An excellent guide to this remote 100 mile canoe route 
75 miles north of North Bay, Ontario; includes map, 
PHOTOCOPIES (Postpaid)..... 
$ 1.50 
243 - TIMAGAMI FOREST RESERVE - An excellent guide and map to a 120-mile canoe route Cie 
iy the 
Ontario 
Northland 
Railway. 
PHOTOCOPIES (Postpaid)..... 
$ 1.50 
244 - CANOE AND HIKING IN THE FAIRBANKS, 
ALASKA AREA - A brief brochure and map showing 
$ 1.50 
The canoe and hiking routes; includes sketch maps. 
PHOTOCOPIES (Postpaid). . 
245 - MONTANA'S POPULAR CANOE STREAMS -A detailed description of over 20 of Montana's 
Tamous and remote streams suitable for canoeing. 
PHOTOCOPIES (Postpaid)..... 
$ 1.50 
246 - RIDE THE WIDE MISSOURI RECREATION WATERWAY - A detailed description of the Missouri 
From it’s headwaters through the state of Montana to Kipp State Park; with map 
PHOTOCOPIES (Postpaid) saeve 
$ 2,00 
the Connecticut above Windsor, the Shetucket River, and 
the Quinebaug above Norwich, all Difficulty | or less with 
the usual dam portages. 
The Connecticut River is flat water canoeing through 
Massachusetts and Connecticut, though not considered as 
scenic as in Vermont and New Hampshire. 
In Connecticut and Massachusetts there are many fine 
tidewater streams along the coast. Tides can be a problem 
here, and much the same conditions exist in New Hampshire. 
Whitewater Coaching Manual 
Just what the title says. Whitewater people tend to seek 
increasing challange. This book outlines the training 
methods of a famous (and controversial) coach. Though 
it’s aimed at competition, there are many things for the 
individual seeking to improve his condition and technique. 
(Consult also A White Water Handbook for Canoe & 
Kayak, Pg. 282). 
SS 
WHITEWATE R 
COACHING 
Manual 
1973; 56pp. 
$5.00 postpaid 
from: 
Jay Evans 
U.S. Olympic Coach 
Whitewater Slalom 
201 McNutt 
Hanover, NH 03755 
or Whole Earth 
People sometimes scornfully refer to ‘bedroom push ups’ but 
they, too, take so little time each day yet work wonders to 
develop the tricep as well as the forearm. Three sets of 40 
each all within two minutes is a reasonable goal to shoot for. 
And, now, while you’re at it, down on that cold floor in the 
bedroom, simply stick your legs under the dresser and do 3 
sets of 20 sit ups all within 40 seconds. Hold your hands 
behind your head, and then hold your body rigid at a 45 
degree angle for 20 seconds afterward or until those stomach 
muscles really begin to shout with pain. 
Light Hovercraft 
Hovercraft are just the thing for zooming over swampland 
or going fast over water. They're noisy, though. If your 
needs can only be met by a hovercraft, you can now get 
little ones with payloads from 175 Ibs to 500 Ibs about 
$1300.00 to $3900.00 plus freight. Kits a bit less. 
Catalog 
from: 
Light Hovercraft Co. 
London Rd. 
East Grinstead 
Sussex 
England RH19 2BH 
Whitewater Coaching 
SVI
WON
