best available for off-shore and coastal fishermen. 
Includes much more than the edible species. There is no 
y so you must leaf your way through the guide 
to find 
~ the fish. Once found, the description of the fish’s natural 
history is fine and informative. 
—PW 
Deep-water Fishes of 
California 
John E. Fitch and Robert 
J. Lavenberg 
$2.25 Postpaid 
Marine Food and Game 
Fishes of California 
John E. Fitch and Robert 
J. Lavenberg 
1971; 179pp. 
$2.35 Postpaid 
Marine Food 
nd Game F ishes 
of California 
both from: 
University of Calif. Press 
2223 Fulton St. 
Berkeley, CA 94702 
or Whole Earth 
Hexagrammidae (Greenling Family) 
Kelp Greenling 
Hexagrammos decagrammus (Pallas, 1810) 
| 
Distinguishing characters.—— The presence of five lateral 
lines on each side is characteristic of the genus Hexagrammos. 
Within this genus, the kelp greenling is distinguishable from. 
all other fishes by its color. Males have numerous turquoise- 
blue blotches on the head and front part of the body, and 
each of these is ringed by small rust-colored spots. Females 
are uniformly covered with round reddish-brown spots. 
Fig. 25. 
Hexagrammos decagrammus 
Natural history notes.—— Hexagrammos decagrammus has 
been recorded from Kodiak Island, Alaska, to La Jolla, 
California, but south of Point Conception it lives in deeper 
water and is much less common. Throughout their range 
they live in rocky habitat, especially if there is a good cover 
of algae. In cold waters to the north, they are common 
intertidally, and are fairly abundant into depths of 75 feet. 
Off southern California, they have been hooked in 150 feet 
of water. 
Fishery information.—— The kelp greenling is one of the 
most important species in the rocky-shore fisherman’s bag 
along the north coast. They will take almost any type of bait 
offered, including cut fish, clams, mussels, shrimp, squid, 
worms, and small crabs. Shore anglers generally catch much 
smaller fish than do skindivers, or skiff and partyboat 
fishermen. More than 56,000 are taken each year by 
California’s sport fishermen, according to results of a survey 
conducted from 1958 to 1961. 
Guide to Marine Fishes 
From Cape Cod to Cape Hatteras. The only book | know 
of its kind. Part One has a great key for easy identification 
of all marine fishes. Part Two is a running commentary on 
each fish’s economic importance, ecology, size, distribution 
and more. 
7 
—PW 
Guide to Marine Fishes 
Alfred Perlmutter 
1961; 431 pp. 
$6.50 postpaid 
from: 
New York University Press 
Washington Square 
New York, NY 10003 
or Whole Earth 
The Amateur Navigator's Handbook 
Very well written and systematic in its coverage of coastal 
navigation (piloting) procedures. Includes all the information 
needed to handle a days work of coasting, plus details on 
preparing a deviation table, use of light lists, tide and current 
charts and a handy appendix of ready reference material. 
Recommended if you‘re brand new to the subject. 
—AP 
The Amateur Navigator’s 
Handbook 
Sallie Townsend and 
Virginia Ericson 
1974; 226pp. 
$7.95 Postpaid 
from: 
Thomas Y. Crowell Co., Inc. 
666 Fifth Ave. 
New York, NY 10019. 
or Whole Earth 
BELL “I4" 
Fig. 11. Bow and beam bearing. 
It is possible to obtain a fairly accurate measurement of the 
distance a navigational aid is away from a boat when the aid 
is abeam. This method of measurement is called a bow and 
beam bearing and is based on.the principle that when one 
angle of a right triangle is 45°, the two sides adjacent to the 
right angle are of equal length. 
It is necessary to take two separate bearings on the same 
navigational aid. The first one is taken ahead of the boat to _ 
determine when a navigational aid bears 45° to the course 
line. When the aid bears 45°, the mileage reading for the 
distance traveled along the course is noted. When the aid is 
90° to the course line, or is abeam, a second distance reading 
is noted. The boat must be heading on the charted course 
during the entire time. 
; 
The distance the boat has traveled along the course between 
the two bearings is approximately equal to the distance 
between the boat and the navigational aid when it is abeam. 
If there is no distance indicator aboard, the elapsed time 
must be noted between the two bearings, a constant boat 
speed maintained, and the distance determined by the 
distance/speed/time formula 
ee 
oo 
60 
Because of the variables in a bow and beam bearing, it is not 
considered accurate enough to be called a fix. 
Upper lobe of tail 
much more than 
twice. length of 
lower lobe 
Tiger shark 
Upper lobe of tail 
less than twice 
length of lower lobe 
Mackerel shark 
Air Travel & Charter Flight Handboo 
Jurgen’s handy little paperback is just loaded with hard to 
7 
find international airline and flight info—— the types of 
j 
tricks that old pro travelers are in the know about on getting 
twice as much for only half the price. For example he 
explains how you can buy two 22/45 day excursion tickets 
and use them for.regular economy fare travel, how to miss 
| 
a flight connection so that the airline will pick up your hote| 
_ 
expenses, details low government-ordered fares and, in other 
| 
words, does a damn good job of telling you how to beat the |
system. Read Jurgen’s book first, then start planning your 
|
trip. 
: 
i 
—AP 
[Suggested by David Potvin] 
Air Travel & Charter 
— 
Flight Handbook 
Jens Jurgen 
1973; 
192pp. 
$4.95 postpaid 
from: 
Travel Information Bureau 
P.O. Box 105-a 
Kings Park, NY 11754 
The next time you travel aboard a regular scheduled 
transatlantic flight, ask the person in the seat next to you 
how much he paid for his trip. It’s possible that while you 
paid $456 for a New York-London round-trip, he may have 
paid $210. If you were travelling on a summer, regular 
economy ticket to Rome for $792, the person next to you 
may have only paid $394. Yet he’s travelling on the same 
plane, on the same date as you are! He's being served the 
same meal and he had the same baggage allowance. This 
smart traveller sitting next to you is perhaps a member of 
a forty person or more group, such as a professional 
association, sports club, or bird lovers’ society. All regular 
airlines offer such group fares and presently a group needs to 
have at least forty adults to travel at such reduced rates acros 
the Atlantic. For travel across the Pacific, there are reduced 
fares for groups of twenty-five or seventy persons or more. 
News About Travel Bargains 
Not even the best travel book can include all the travel 
bargains that pop up from time to time. Many are short 
lived and have to be taken advantage of immediately before 
| 
they expire, such as a special discount on a particular cruise. 
Our domestic airlines also have the habit of introducing 
sometimes fabulous air travel bargains but discontinuing 
them shortly thereafter—— sometimes before you have time 
to get to the airport. For several years now | have found two 
travel publications to be quite interesting and useful and you 
may want to subscribe to them. One is the Joyer Travel 
Report,a monthly newsletter ($12.00 per year) published 
by Joyer Travel Report, Box 707, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625) 
The other publication | can recommend to any travel bug is 
Travel, published by Travel Magazine, Inc., Travel Building, 
Floral Park, NY 11001. 
,@ 
ATTENTION! 
Charter Organizers and Travel Agents 
Do you have too many empty seats on a charter? Do you 
need another group to share a legal split charter? Or, do 
you have a group and no plane? Now there is a clearinghouse 
for such requests—— it is the ‘International Tour Exchange” 
ITX, Continental Oil Building, High Ridge Park, Stamford, 
CT 06905. Telephone (203) 329-2001. Telex 966 872. They 
may be able to help you! (For groups only—— not individuals: 
Tire Gauge 
Keeping tires at the right pressure is safer, and uses less fuel, 
and saves on tire wear. Gas station gauges are often very 
inaccurate. Having one of your own is best. Here’s a good 
one. 
: 
: 
; 
; 
Accu-Gage 
$5.25 
Mfg. by 
G.H: Meiser & Co. 
Available at 
most auto supply stores 
