LAND 
An excursion through an amazing world by a 
__ scientist who explains the obvious with style and 
_ without condescension. 
The references are to English 
= 
soils but the principles apply everywhere. Few 
experts write about their subjects with as much 
_ brevity and clarity. 
—RN 
Soil 
ha Bite >Wol ld of the 
OHN & 
The World of the Soil 
Sir E. John Russell 
1957; 237pp. 
$1.95 postpaid 
from: 
Fontana Paperbacks 
c/o Watts, Franklin Inc. 
845 Third Ave. 
New York, NY 10022 
or Whole Earth 
The chinks and crannies riddling the soil appear extremely 
minute to us and it seems incredible that any air could enter. 
But everything in Nature is relative: the molecules of 
oxygen are vastly smaller: crevices only 1/1000 of an inch 
wide, and far too small for us to see, are as large compared 
with an oxygen molecule as a valley about 120 miles wide 
in comparison with a man. 
For a proper appreciation of 
the soil one must try to see things as they would appear to 
its smallest inhabitants if they had the power of sight. 
. during a year a bullock leaves in its faeces enough food 
to support an insect population of at least one fifth of its 
own weight, to say nothing of the bacteria, fungi, protozoa, 
nematodes and other organisms that also participate. 
Potassic fertilizers came much later into use than the 
phosphatic and nitrogenous; nineteenth century farmers 
hardly knew them. The old system of agriculture and the 
Rules of Good Husbandry that dominated the leases 
conserved the supplies of potassium in the soil. 
.. Hay and 
straw both contain considerable quantities of potassium: 
their sale off the farm was generally forbidden to tenant 
farmers; they were consumed by the farm animals and 
most of the potassium got into the excreta (chiefly the 
urine) and was returned to the land in the farmyard manure 
which was then usually richer than it is now. Changes in 
agricultural systems and complete removal of all restrictions 
on sales of produce have drastically altered the position. 
_ Soil Fertility and Animal Health 
Though this book is about growing better livestock 
feed, its perspective is ecological and its information 
is useful to any agriculturalist who ranks quality 
ahead of quantity. 
““You are what you eat” is more 
than a cliché; it is a cycle that begins with the soil. 
—RN 
Soil Fertility and 
Animal Health 
Dr. Wm. A. Albrecht 
1958; 232pp. 
$4.00 postpaid 
from: 
Acres, USA 
Box 1456 
Kansas City, MO 
64141 
or Whole Earth 
The weanling rabbits had the same pedigree, so did the crop 
plants making up the hay, but treatment of the soil with 
some extra fertility to grow better feed made the rabbit on 
the bottom different in appearance and body structure as 
the bones also illustrate. 
Weeds, Guurdions of the Soil 
Cocannouer explains how weeds help the sort and 
crops, when grown in a controlled way, by their deep 
roots which bring up minerals from the subsoil. 
They also help shallow-rooted crops (most cultivated 
crops are) get to deep water; and they conserve the 
soil, improve its texture, and are good to eat. 
Written in an anecdotal style containing much good 
information. 
—Stuart Ambler 
Our common weeds, possessing vigorous root systems, go 
down into the lower soils for a goodly portion of their 
mineral foods because the minerals which plants require are 
usually abundant down there. Being strong feeders, the 
weed roots take up great quantities of the minerals and then 
bring them up to be stored in the stems and leaves. So, when 
the weeds were burned on the garden, those minerals were 
deposited there in the ashes, ready to be taken up easily by 
the growing vegetables. 
In this manner—— and in many other 
ways—— weeds are Nature's true guardians of the soil. They 
PIGWEED IN A 
POTATO HILL 
Drawn by Jobnny Vancil 
The Nature and Properties of Soils 
A college text on soil science. 
The writing is clear, 
there is a glossary of terms, and the section headings 
make it easy to find the information you want 
quickly. More facts than most people need, but well 
worth consulting on specific subjects. 
—RN 
It has been recognized for centuries that certain crops, such 
as the clovers, alfalfa, peas, beans, and others, improve the 
soil. . 
. Within the last century the benefit has been traced to 
the fixation of nitrogen through the agency of bacteria 
contained in nodules on the roots of certain host plants. 
Most of the specific plants so affected belong to the family 
of legumes although a significant number of nonlegume 
species are nodulated. 
The legume organisms live in the 
root nodules, take free nitrogen from the soil air, and 
synthesize it into complex forms. . 
. The organism is a 
rhizobium and there are a number of strains, depending on 
the host plants. They may, therefore, be classified 
according to the host as Rhizobium meliloti for those 
of alfalfa and sweet clover, Rhizobium trifolii for the 
clovers, Rhizobium japonicum for soybeans, and soon... 
The organisms from one species of legumes are not 
necessarily well adapted to the ready production of 
effective nodules on other leguminous species. Certain 
cross-inoculations are successful in practice, however... 
A partial listing of the groups within which cross 
inoculation may easily be made follows: 
Group 
1. (Alfalfa group) Alfalfa, bur clovers, white, 
yellow and hubam sweet clovers, fenugreek, yellow trefoil, 
and others. 
Group 2. (Clover group) Mammoth and red clover, alsike 
clover, crimson clover, hop clover, white clover, Zigzag 
clover, ladino clover, and others. 
Group 
3. (Cowpea group) Lespedezas, acacia, kudzu, 
cowpea, peanut, partridge pea, jack bean, velvet bean, 
lima bean, etc. 
Group 4. (Pea and vetch group) Garden pea, sweet pea, 
horse bean, lentil, Canada field pea, hairy vetch, common 
vetch, purple vetch, etc. 
Group 5. (Soybean group) All varieties of soybeans. 
Group 6. (Bean group) Garden bean (numerous varieties) 
pinto bean, and scarlet runner. 
Weeds, Guardians 
of the Soil’ ==> 
Joseph A. Cocannouer 
1950; 179pp. 
$4. 95 postpaid 
from: 
‘ 
The Devin-Adair Co., Inc. 
One Park Ave. 
Old Greenwich, CT 06870 ‘ 
or Whole Earth 
are the farmer’s friends when he uses them intelligently 
; 
his friends though he fights them. 
+ aes 
Generally, the ‘‘weeds”’ in this book are the same old ae 
enemies of my boyhood. They were enemies then because | 
had not yet learned their worth. Grass is not included 
herein since grass does not improve the soil in the same way 
as do these deep foraging weeds; the deep-rooted herbaceous 
dicots. They are annuals usually, though a few biennials and 
fewer perennials are also reliable soil builders. 
5 
= 
Near the top of the list | place pigweeds, two or three Oe 
strains, and lamb’s quarter, both familiar throughout the 
— 
country in garden and field. Under most conditions these 
weeds are beneficial to the crop with which they may be ~ 
growing. The same can be said for some of the nightshades, 
the ground cherry, and succulent purslane. Even some of — 
the noxious weeds, like the cocklebur and bull nettle, are 
soil improvers where the individual plants have ample 1 room 
for full root development. 
Soils, like dwelling houses, need an occasional overall 
— 
cleansing, no matter how fertile the land may be. As 
stated 
elsewhere, toxins or toxic substances often get into the 
- 
soil, either through running the same crop on the land for 
a long period of time, or as the by-products left from 
organic decay, or through poor tillage practices. Wherever 
vigorous bacteria are abundantly present, as they always 
are in a normal soil, some toxic substances may result from 
their work. These substances are not food materials, ae 
though not harmful to some crops they can be more ore 
less injurious to others. 
nS 
ae 
Where such situations obtain, a mixed crop of deep- 
foraging weeds will do a good job of cleansing. Exactly 
how the weed roots do it is not clear. But heavy weed 
fallowing has been known to have a markedly beneficial 
effect on toxic soils. Whether the weeds transform the 
~ 
toxic materials, or merely distribute them so as to make 
them less harmful, | am not certain. But 
lam certain 
_ 
that weeds, handled properly, will both purify land and — 
enrich it at the same time. 
The Nature and 
: 
Properties of Soils 
Harry O. Buckman a 
Nyle C. Brady 
7th Ed, 1969. 653pp.° 
$1 1.95 postpaid 
from: 
2 
The Macmillan Company 
866 Third Ave. 
New York, NY 10022 
or Whole Earth 
£ AND 
OF soILs 
rig NATUR 
pROPERTIES 
nth Edition 
guaiwn 
sue 
/ 
Group 7. (Lupine group) Lupine, serradella, blue lupine, 
yellow lupine and white lupine. 
‘alkali’ spot ina 
field of alfalfa under irri- 
gation. Because of upward capillarity and evaporation, salts 
have been brought to the surface where they have accumu- 
lated in amounts toxic to plants. (U.S. Soil Conservation 
Service photo.) Right. A close-up photo showing the white 
salt crust ona 
saline soil from Colorado. The white salts — 
are in contrast with the durker colored soil (left foreground, 
Left. A white “‘ 
underneath. (Scale in inches is shown at the Borer of 
photo.) 
: 
