—_ 
> 
ton 
s * 
han 
Dar 
Press Conference — 
14, 1974 
tal Engineering Sciences 
ghee 
and 
Center for Wetlands 
s about the current world energy 
made in this article using simple 
1S DANGEROUS TO ITS: 
AS AN INDEPENDENT ENTITY. 
es while others are spending their last 
s end up with more relative power in 
economic affairs. The recent actions 
eserves of fuel and other energy costing 
amplifying strategic reserves for business as 
0 dering on treasonous and yet was 
ons (example: machinery for using 
ore and more limiting in such activities 
nergy amplifier effect gets larger. Thus, 
nt 
that save energy until later get more 
ut of secondary amplifier actions. One 
actually run out except where price 
mpted, since holding prices down 
0 gO elsewhere for sale. Money costs 
yy cost of getting energy rises since a 
tage of the human economy gets 
ergy getting. The long range energy 
iversion of many current aspects of 
called standard of living back to energy 
ction and concentration work. 
advocate use of current remaining 
order to be internationally independent 
backwards. In the first place, if one 
0 economic and military competitors 
s his last situation worse. If you go far 
independence, keep reserves as a 
elp control prices and prevent attack 
more and more of one’s economy on 
‘gy, lowering one’s balance of payments 
of living anyway. 
T U.S. POLICY HAS SOME WAR 
Ts, 
i< 
ar may be prevented if all potential 
have a realistic understanding of their 
ition so that they will truly know what 
e would be if a war was conducted at 
boundary, considering its distance from 
ower centers. 
\dary 
between two competing power 
located appropriate to the energy sources 
» to the defense, and both sides understand 
ot shifted, a situation is set up where 
m 
with lesser energy can be defeated and 
back from its former position. The U.S. 
n that role relative to its position in the 
e it has 1/3 or less of the world’s 
There is a great danger that the U.S. might attempt 
A 
to exert military action in the eastern Mediterranean 
as it once did in Eisenhower times with inadequate 
power to do it as compared to Russian and other 
energy proximity and greater energy resources. If 
the U.S. is induced into wars that it hardly has the 
energy to support while other nations with oil 
reserves do not become so much involved, the 
relative energy position of the U.S. will deteriorate 
and it becomes so energetically weak that it could 
not handle its own hemispheric defense. For world 
stability energy differentials need to be evened out 
and the richer sources used first so that balance of 
energy resources is maintained. 
As oil producing countries and associates get full 
industrial technology which they can readily buy 
as their relative richness so exceeds that of 
existina technological countries, their total 
military and economic power will grow into a new 
colossus. If there is a large difference in actual 
energy cost of getting energy between the U.S. and 
the producers of richer oils, the latter can determine 
which countries will have economic edge by sale at 
slightly lower prices. There is no way the U.S. can 
organize the non oil producers into a counter power 
with inferior energy sources. There might be enough 
storage of high energy capability in the industrial 
countries to try for an oil conquest if they were 
quick about it, but they are probably blocked by 
the greater soviet energy and equivalent power at 
that distance. It would probably mean World War 
Ill. The U.S. alone could not:do it. The European 
countries can get their needs by joining the Arab 
block. 
3. ENERGY COST OF SOME ACTIVITY MUST 
INCLUDE ALL ITS INPUTS. 
A bad error is being made in much public forum 
discussion and in many economics papers that 
attempt to determine the energy use of a given 
process. The error arises in calculating the energy 
use of an activity as only that directly observed to 
be used by the activity, while ignoring the energy 
that makes possible all the other goods and 
services that go into that activity. For example, the 
energy utilization in transportation is not just the 
fuels used by the cars, but is also the energy spent 
all through the economy subsidizing the making of 
the cars, the roads, and the maintenance. One way 
of estimating the energy spent in support of such 
a complicated activity is to obtain the money cost 
and convert to the average energy expenditure per 
dollar as calculated from the total economy such 
as a figure of 17,000 kilocalories to the dollar. 
4. LET'S FACE DECLINE IN TOURISM AND NOT 
SWEEP IT UNDER THE RUG. 
If we may judge by the increase in tourism that 
followed the increased energy subsidy of our culture, 
tourism is a property that depends on high energies. 
As net energies go down in the U.S. so must 
tourism. Political attempts to keep its priority over 
endeavors such as getting more food and fuel 
energies will fail (unless there is some rich source of 
excess energy culture to draw tourists from). 
Whereas efforts to make transitions slow and non- 
disruptive are needed, no one is doing anyone a 
favor by implying that tourism will not be 
declining. Florida must plan for a change. One 
temporary step to help during an interim is to set 
up an-air line shuttle from green lush Florida for 
African and Arab tourists to spend their new 
excess monies. 
5. HUMANS OF ALL AGES WILL BE NEEDED 
MORE. 
As energies for machines decline, many functions 
may take more human labor instead for the simple 
development of food and fiber. Thus, the young 
and the old will be more needed in the work force. 
Ultimately, displacement unemployment will be 
temporary as machines are replaced by people. The 
rising energy cost of energy will so inflate the value 
“ 
of money that the pension plans and other savings 
will be depreciated so that the amount of money 
that retirees can bring to Florida will decline so 
ee 
that they will be less an income source. We need 
2g 
Ri
to help them find a low energy life style without 
<a 
becoming a public drain. 
< 
6. TEMPORARY HIGH PROFITS SHOW UP 
DURING ENERGY DECLINE. 
During the decline in money value, those with 
businesses can be misled about their future by 
temporary prosperity, since goods and storages 
done under one energy level will be sold as the 
price goes up; but increased money profits will be 
more than undermined by the inflation. The 
public will think the temporary profit is a 
conspiracy. 
7. THE FOLLOWING MAY BE INDUSTRIES 
THAT WILL DROP OUT, AND WHICH WE 
SHOULD ENCOURAGE TO RECOGNIZE 
THEIR NEED TO DIVERSITY AND 
TRANSFER THEIR SKILLS TO OTHER 
ACTIVITY. 
A. Urbanization construction will be replaced for 
smaller projects, most of which will be replacements. 
B. Artificial vegetation will be replaced by more 
use of self maintaining vegetation (natural). Thus, 
work will decline that concerns lawns, plant 
nurseries, tree surgeons, manicuring parks and rights 
of way, golf courses, astroturfs. 
C. Air conditioning will be replaced by 
architecture that fits human settlement into trees 
and microclimates of moist vegetation shade, uses 
winds, etc. 
D. Eutrophication problems will decline as 
farmers bid for sewage use; ecological engineering 
will replace some other kinds of environmental 
engineering. Lowered energies will take the pressure 
off the environment in many situations. 
SWT
 ‘SP
a 
<4 
E. Universities will be less occupied and will 
: 
se
need to organize among themselves to keep society 
“ 
from losing valuable information accumulated 
during our recent energy rich periods. Creative 
activity will be less and knowledge custodial service 
may be more. Computer use will be less. 
F. Farms may use more land but their functions 
and cycles will be more intact and their external 
environmental action less. 
G. Tourism will be less and operating with energy 
attractions, using less artificial lures and a higher 
percentage of self maintaining natural ones. 
H. The scale of activities may be reduced and 
decentralized with more small units replacing large 
unified ones. This may apply to cities sewage 
handling, cars, and even utilities. Agriculture will 
develop more local use and variety. 
|. Religions concerned with adaptation and 
satisfaction with an uneven continued pattern will 
increase and religious unrest will decrease. Mental 
health should improve once the shock of change 
from growth to more level economy is passed. 
J. Advertising and communications will be 
reduced. 
K. Properties of high energy concentration will 
decrease: crime, wrecks, police, noise, central 
services and their tax costs. 
L. Pine plantations for paper may decrease in 
favor of food production and forest management 
for lumber for buildings. 
a
M. Exotic medical services will decline. 
in
Wi
