55, 
< 
& Usual Punishment 
_ 
fashioned intelligent muckraking with a heart. The 
y 
k is a thorough, agonized exploration of the validity 
___ of the very concept of prisons. The dehumanizing and 
inhumane aspects of prison life are chronicled in detail, 
and Ms. Mitford stresses, over and over again, the simple 
et that prisons don’t work. There is a list of organizations 
acting to change the system in the appendix. 
—DB 
Kind & Usual 
Punishment 
Jessica Mitford 
1973; 340pp. 
$1.95 Postpaid 
from: 
Vintage Books 
Random House 
457 Hahn Rad. 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Dr. Keith Brody of Stanford University, who said he runs a 
“unit for mood disorders,” stressed the importance of 
“intensive data collection” via spinal taps and other tests: 
“These tests can lead to therapy decisions. We need to 
segregate out and dissect out these sub-groups.’ Other 
Proposals for therapy were to burn out electrically those 
areas of the brain believed to be the “source of aggressive 
behavior’’—— one speaker said he reckoned about 10 Percent 
_ 
of the inmates might be candidates for this treatment; the 
administration of antitestosterone hormones, which have 
the effect of chemically castrating the subject; the use of 
Pneumoencephalograms (injecting air into the brain cavities, 
an excruciatingly painful procedure). 
Asked whether the Anectine torture “therapy” would be 
resumed in the new unit, Mr. Bennett did not answer 
directly but declared with some exasperation, “‘If it could 
be shown empirically that hitting an inmate on the head 
with a hammer would cure him, I'd do it. You talk about 
his civil rights—— civil rights for what? To continue to 
disrupt society?’’ Nor would he answer the further 
questions: 
‘‘Does not the prison system itself, and particu- 
larly the Adjustment Center, generate violence?”’ and ‘‘Would 
the researchers be directing any part of their inquiry to 
‘violence by guards against prisoners?”’ 
As for the compliant participation of the distinguished 
group of faculty members in this bizarre discussion, one 
Possible explanation was suggested by the lone black 
psychiatrist present, Dr. Wendell Lipscomb, who had stormed 
out of the meeting halfway through, declaring he ‘‘couldn’t 
take any more of this crap.” 
Later, he told me, “What you 
were seeing at that meeting were the grant-hunters, hungry 
for money, willing to eat any shit that’s put before them.” 
Dr. Frank Tannenbaum, a pioneer student of prison, wrote 
in 1922: “We must destroy the prison, root and branch. 
When | speak of the prison, | mean the mechanical structure, 
the instrument, the technique, the method which the 
prison involves." 
In 1972 Federal District Judge James 
Doyle of the Western District of Wisconsin, ruling ona 
Prison mail censorship case (Morales v. Schmidt), wrote: 
“| am persuaded that the institution of prison probably 
must end. 
In many respects it is as intolerable within the 
United States as was the institution of slavery, equally 
brutalizing to all involved, equally toxic to the social 
- system, equally subversive of the brotherhood of man, 
even more costly by some standards, and probably less 
rational.” 
‘ 
| share this conviction. 
But | also agree with the authors of 
Struggle for Justice, one of the most thoughtful and important 
texts to come out of the current prison turmoil, when they 
note ‘the impossibility of achieving more than a superficial 
reformation of our criminal justice system without a radical 
change in our values and a drastic restructuring of our social 
and economic institutions. 
. .” 
Prison/Ashram Project 
Currently being organized is a project.to provide prison 
inmates with the resources to convert their prison experiences 
to an ashram experience. There are several aspects of prison 
life which are analogous to the confrontation and growth 
those of us outside prison have experienced in meditation 
retreats, spiritual study, etc. While in prison, we have an 
opportunity for constructive use of isolation or limited 
freedom, however most prison libraries don’t offer us the 
encouragement we get from our personal collections or 
the volumes at our centers. 
1n order to make available at prisons a broad and select 
group of outstanding books for spiritual nourishment, 
we have to bring them there. We've been speaking with 
several publishers about possible arrangements our Prison/ 
Ashram Project can have to obtain books at reduced cost. 
But it has occurred to us that our used books are equally 
precious for this purpose. 
In fact, there is something about 
_a book having already inspired us which makes it even more 
attractive. 
5 
The San Francisco Public Library runs a book project for the 
four S.F. County jails. They have succeeded in gradually 
building up the prison libraries, so that they now function 
like any other branch library. This means that, in addition 
Books For Prisoners 
to weekly deliveries of new books and magazines, prisoners 
can request specific titles and be sure of getting them. The 
extent of censorship and accessibility depends entirely on 
the individual facility, and its personnel. 
All books in 
the women’s jail are left in the day room; in the men’s jail, 
they are locked up and prisoners have to request permission 
to check them out. Censorship is at a minimum, and usually 
Originates at the jail itself. The Library takes the position 
of complete non-censorship, and when any book is denied 
to the prisoners, the Sherriff's attorney goes to work, 
“wriggling it through the bureaucracy.’ The Sheriff’s whole- 
hearted support of the project is undoubtedly a critical 
_ 
factor in its success. There was a period of time when all 
the jails were refusing judo and karate books, because “the 
Prisoners were practicing on one another.” 
In New York, the Association for American Publishers, in 
response to the Attica riot in 1971, established a Books 
for Prisoners Task Force, which distributes books donated 
by publishers to prison libraries. There’s a long article 
about the Project in Publisher’s Weekly (June 17, 1974). 
The histories of these two projects are remarkably similar; 
anyone thinking of starting such a project should bear these 
things in mind: 
The most critical factor in starting such a program is 
obtaining the cooperation of the prison officials involved. 
Needs time, lots of discussion, personal relationships. 
If 
you just show up at the jail with an armload of books, 
expect a cool reception. The San Francisco deputies 
“very gradually realized that the prisons wouldn't fall 
apart if the prisoners got to read what they wanted.” 
It’s very tough work for the staff, volunteers, students 
involved. 
It can be depressing, and is always emotionally 
Wearing to walk into ‘‘the ugly reality of prison life.’ 
It 
gets better if the same person goes every week, but as the 
resistance of the deputies goes down, the prisoners’ demands 
go up—— “You didn’t bring me my book!!” 
Most in demand by prisoners are ethnic books, especially 
black writers, and periodicals. Newspapers and magazines 
should donate 20 copies of each current issue to prisons, 
as one small San Francisco paper does. They‘re eaten up. 
The prisoners seem to need, more than anything, to be 
in touch with the world they’re not living in. 
—DB 
Justice 
1. The criminal justice processes are not fair nor effective, 
there are no protections against inane or malicious 
proceedings, nor just recourse subsequent to them. 2. The 
human being who is in the nonconforming minority is 
especially anathema to that criminal justice practitioner 
who gladly acts as hired gun for the conforming majority. 
3. Those without political power, social position, or economic 
leverage must be obedient and deferential in order to 
minimize discourtesy, abuse, injury or death. 4. There are 
human beings working within the criminal justice system 
and they often are able to help people (even while appearing 
to be traditionalists interested only in applying massive 
immediate force, making busts, prosecuting, penalizing & 
punishing.) 5. We should give every agent the chance to 
perform humane social control for the community, and 
we should respect those who are respectable. 
6. Read: 
Egan Bittner, The Functions of Police in Modern Society 
(1970, US Govt Ptg Office, PHS Pub No. 2059); and 
Jessica Mitford, Kind and Usual Punishment (1973, Knopf.). 
Love&Peace&Whatever—— 
A.C. Germann, CSU, LB 
Professor, Dept. of 
Criminal Justice 
Long Beach, CA. 
If you have, in your personal or ashram library, books which 
have inspired you, perhaps you would like to share your good 
fortune with our family behind bars. 
If you're interested 
in hooking up with us in this work, pick books you feel 
would be useful, pack them well, and mail them (library 
rate: 3c x Ibs. + 3c) to: 
Prison Library 
Box 1080 
San Rafael, CA 94902 
or 
Prison Library 
Rte. 1, Box 395 
Bahama, NC 27503 
If you include a return address we will acknowledge receipt. 
Ram Dass 
Akwesasne Notes 
Indigena 
!f you're involved in American Indian activities, Akwesasne 
Notes is essential reading—— the best conduit of news on 
everything going on. Indigena particularly focuses on South 
America—— where the killing of native life is on the increase 
Indigena 
brochure 
from: 
Indigena 
Box 4073 
Berkeley, CA 94704 
Akwesasne Notes 
No fixed price, but 
donate generously 
from: 
Akwesasne Notes 
Mohawk Nation 
via Rooseveltown, NY 
13683 
The Jaime de Angulo Library 
- 
Jaime de Angulo was a remarkable man: anthropologist, 
doctor, linguist, cowboy scholar and poet He spoke 17 
different American Indian languages and lived on and off 
with California’s Pit River Indians for 40 years, traveling 
in their jalopy caravans (in the early 1900's), sitting around 
their campfires, listening to their tales, legends, and myths. 
He then lived for some years on a high ridge in Big Sur and 
obviously roamed the hills, got to know the trees and 
{ 
bluejays, stars, winds, coyotes and canyon spirits. “cultured 
though he was, versed in so many things—— medicine, 
folklore, magic, anthropology, languages—— his spirit was 
as wild and unpredictable as this wild and lonely coast 
where he finally anchored,” wrote Henry Miller. 
Jaime was not an acceptable anthropologist to the 
universities: getting drunk and rolling around in ditches 
with Indians was hardly academically respectable, and most 
of his writings (in spite of help from Ezra Pound, an early 
fan) went unpublished. Happily, Bob & Eileen Callahan of 
Turtle Island Foundation recently discovered a number of 
unpublished de Angulo manuscripts (in a cardboard box 
at the home of Jaime’s widow in Berkeley) and have come 
out with a series of small, exquisite books beautifully 
printed by Clifford Burke of Cranium Press. 
Indians in Overalls is about the Pit River Indians, their 
language and myths. “Real Primitive People,”’ he wrote, 
- “not like those ‘cultured’ Indians of the Southwest. .. “ 
Don Bartolomeo, narrated by the last Indian of the Sureny® 
tribe tells of pre-“‘civilized” California, where “. . .each 
little ravine, especially those where water runs, belongs 
to a spirit who lives there... “, where foxes discourse on 
the newly-arrived white men who “”. . .use a special kind of 
bow and arrows. It makes Pum! and you have not time to 
dodge. If they ever come here, it will be our end... “ The 
Lariat /s the strange haunting tale of the confrontation 
between a Franciscan monk and an ancient Esselen Wer- 
bear shaman. In it birds and foxes speak to each other as 
you know they must. Two other books make up the Jaime 
de Angulo Library and four more books will soon be 
issued. (Jaime wrote Indian Tales, Pg. 369). 
—Lloyd Kahn 
