of wild and unusual ways 
to ge 
wn therapy. This book is a look at 
ithout hypnosis. It is a wonderful pile of 
ways in which he blew minds. Erickson 
deceitful, nasty, vulgar, stupid, vicious, 
whatever he felt was necessary for the 
commentaries are useful. Don Juan would 
they both_understand the way things 
—Jim Fadiman 
Uncommon Therapy 
(The Psychiatric Techniques 
of Milton H, Erickson, M.D.) 
_ Jay Haley 
1974; 274pp. 
$1.65 postpaid 
from:— 
Ballantine Books, Inc. 
457 Hahn Rad. 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
-and 
become depressed. He spent his time crying 
titi yvely moving his hands back and forth straight 
est. Erickson said to him, “You're a man 
ad 
his ups and downs,” and asked him to modify 
ent 
by moving his hands up and down instead of 
ist an asked for cooperation. Pointing to the man’s 
lown 
movement, he said, ‘Put a piece of sandpaper 
ussion of mental processes. But Milton 
as been ahead of the field in this respect 
lost 
extraordinary collection. Erickson’s method, 
er 
of therapy 
or research, is the precise use of 
/ nosis. Under this investigation, the human mind 
Ss OUt to be as precise in its evolutions and timing 
—Gregory Bateson 
Advanced Techniques 
of Hypnosis and 
Therapy 
(Selected Papers of Milton 
H. Erickson, M.D.) ~ 
Jay Haley, ed. 
1967; 557pp. 
$1 9.75 Postpaid 
from: 
Grune & Stratton, Inc. 
Harcourt Brace & 
Jovanovich, Inc. 
111 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10003 
or Whole Earth 
new subjects, and always when planning to 
rances, a systematic effort is made to demonstrate 
s that they are in a fully protected situation. 
end are relatively simple and seemingly 
uate. Nevertheless, personality reactions make 
or 
example, a psychology graduate 
demonstration subject for a seminar group. 
_ 
nduced with some difficulty, and her 
uggested 
her need for assurance of protection. Under 
etext of teaching her automatic writing, she was 
ucted to write some interesting sentence and, having 
to show it until after automatic writing as a 
iscussed. Hesitantly, she wrote briefly. She 
rn the paper face down so that not even she 
Handed a new sheet 
of paper, she was asked 
tically her conscious and unconscious 
uestion, “Are you willing to have me read 
ote?” Both written replies were “‘yes,”” to which 
lly added, “anybody.” 
was offered that there was no urgency about 
e since it was her first effort at automatic 
ght be more interesting to fold it up and 
her purse and at some later time compare the 
rther automatic writing she might do. Following 
nce was easily induced. 
term, one of these special procedures 
onfusion technique.” It has been 
in each of his hands and fasten a rough board upright between 
them. That way he can sand and polish the lumber.”” The man 
began to do something productive, and he stopped crying. 
He then began to work in wood.and carved chess sets and 
sold them. He improved so much that he went home ona 
trial visit, and the first year after he was discharged he made 
ten thousand dollars in real estate. 
By the end of the interview, the relationship was defined by 
Erickson as “’You let me stick to the doctoring—— that’s my 
business—— and you stick to getting no weller than you can 
—— that’s your business.”’ As Erickson puts it, “This negative 
formulation implied most effectively and acceptably a 
Positive goal of actually getting well. Thus both positive and 
negative desires are united to achieve a common goal, 
wellness—— a goal he could feel was limited but which was 
not.” 
When | ask a husband for his point of view and the wife 
interrupts even when | ask her not to, then | usually find some 
action that will quiet her. For example, | will do it this way. | 
say to the wife, ‘’! still want your husband's point of view, 
and you keep right on talking. | know it is because of your 
eagerness to help me understand. But do you happen to 
have a lipstick?” Of course she usually has a lipstick, and 
l ask her to take it out of her purse. Then | say, “Now, 
this will seem ridiculous to you, but suppose you hold 
that lipstick like this’’—— | show her that | want her to 
hold it with the tip just gently touching her lips. “Now 
keep it right there, just touching. |’m going to ask your 
husband some questions, and | want you to notice how 
your lips want to move. | think you'll find it very interesting.”’ 
A woman can get quite fascinated watching the quivering of 
her lips on that lipstick. By doing that, I’ve given her a 
legitimate use for her lips. She doesn’t quite understand it, 
but she finds it amusing. 
Cream Rises 
MIND 
Steps to an Ecology of Mind 
Double bind 
plus 
453 
Uncommon Therapy 
Tricks that cure 
741 
Psycho-Sources 
Access to tools 
722 
I Never Promised You a Rose Garden 
Best 
loony-bin 
740 
Advanced Techniques of Hypnosis & Therapy 
Milton Erickson himself 741 
Memories, Dreams, Reflections 
Jung /ife- 
size 
749 
Castaneda 
Sheep shaman 
430,744 
The Act of Creation 
Paean to paradox 
432 
Embodiments of Mind 
Warren McCulloch 
probing 
316 
Plans and the Structure of Behavior 
Cybernetic basics 
432 
Self-Hypnotism 
Do it yourself 422 
The Psychology of Consciousiess 
Left brain, right brain 
742 
employed extensively for the induction of specific 
phenomena as well as deep trances. Usually, it is best 
employed with highly intelligent subjects interested in 
the hypnotic process, or with those consciously unwilling 
to go into a trance despite an unconscious willingness. 
In essence, it is not more than a presentation of a whole 
series of individually differing, contradictory suggestions, 
apparently 
all at variance with each other, differently 
directed, and requiring a constant shift in orientation by 
the subject. .. As the subject tries, conditioned by his 
early cooperative response 
to the hypnotist’s apparent 
misspeaking, to accommodate himself to the welter of 
confused, contradictory responses apparently sought, 
he finds himself at such a loss that he welcomes any 
Positive suggestion that will permit a retreat from so 
unsatisfying and confusing a situation. 
To Erickson, it is reasonable to talk to a patient about one 
thing while simultaneously communicating about quite 
different matters. For example, he will give an academic 
lecture while simultaneously hypnotizing a particular person 
in the audience, or he will talk about seemingly trivial matters 
with a patient while simultaneously carrying on through body 
movement and vocal intonation a conversation about the 
important concerns of the patient. Many of the body 
movements which a therapist uses “‘naturally’’ are used 
deliberately by Erickson, such as postural shifts, focusing 
his body in relation to the patient, or changing levels of 
his voice to bring about responsive body movement. 
He 
uses verbal:communication as only one of the many possible 
ways of communicating, and with hypnotic subjects who 
did not speak English, he has demonstrated that trance can 
be induced entirely by non-verbal behavior. 
The old gentleman was a very proper, prudish man who was 
married to a proper and prudish wife. It was his overconcern 
with propriety that determined Erickson’s strategy. He 
reports: 
When the old gentleman asked if he could be helped for his 
fear of riding in an elevator, | told him | could probably 
scare the pants off him in another direction. He told me 
that nothing could be worse than his fear of an elevator. 
The elevators in that particular building were operated by 
young girls, and | made special arrangements with one in 
advance. She agreed to cooperate and thought it would be 
fun. | went with the gentleman to the elevator. He wasn’t 
afraid of walking into an elevator, but when it started to 
move it became an unbearable experience. So | chose an 
unbusy time and | had him walkin and out of the elevator, 
back in and out. Then at a point when we walked in, | told 
the girl to close the door and said, ‘’Let’s go up.” She went 
up one story and stopped in between floors. The gentleman 
started to yell, “What's wrong!”’ | said, ‘The elevator 
operator wants to kiss you.’’ Shocked, the gentleman said, 
“But I'ma married man!” The girl said, “I don’t mind that. 
She walked toward him, and he stepped back and said, “You 
start the elevator.”” So she started it. She went up to about 
the fourth floor and stopped it again between floors. She 
said, ‘’| just have a craving for a kiss.” He said, ’’ You go 
about your business.”” He wanted that elevator moving, not 
standing still. She replied, “Well, let’s go down and start all 
over again,’’ and she began to take the elevator down. He 
said, ‘“Not down, up!” since he didn’t want to go through 
that all over again. She started up and then stopped the 
elevator between floors and said, “‘Do you promise you'll 
ride down in my elevator with me when you're through 
work?” He said, “‘I’ll promise anything if you promise not 
to kiss me.’’ He went up in the elevator, relieved and 
without fear—— of the elevator—— and could ride one from 
then on. 
” 
Change 
Paradoxical problems require paradoxical solutions. With 
anecdotes, primal theory, and the ideas of Milton Erickson, 
Gregory Bateson, and Ross Ashby, this book makes some 
headway. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Gregory Bateson] 
— 
Change 
(Principles of Problem 
Formation and Problem 
Resolution) 
Paul Watzlawick, Ph. D., 
John Weakland, Ch.E., 
and Richard Fisch, M.D. 
1974; 172pp. 
$7.95 Postpaid 
from: 
W.W. Norton & Co., Inc. 
500 Fifth Ave. 
New York, NY 10036 
or Whole Earth 
Daring as it is to investigate the unknown, even more So it is 
to question the known. 
—Kaspar 
When in 1334 the Duchess of Tyrol, Margareta Maultasch, 
encircled the castle of Hochosterwitz in the province of 
Carinthia, she knew only too well that the fortress, situated 
on‘an incredibly steep rock rising high above the valley floor, 
was impregnable to direct attack and would yield only toa 
long siege. In due course, the situation of the defenders 
became critical: they were down to their last ox and had 
only two bags of barley corn left. Margareta’s situation was 
becoming equally pressing, albeit for different reasons: her 
troops were beginning to be unruly, there seemed to be no 
end to the siege in sight, and she had similarly urgent military 
business elsewhere. At this point the commandant of the 
castle decided on a desperate course of action which to his 
men must have seemed sheer folly: he had the last ox 
slaughtered, had its abdominal cavity filled with the remaining 
barley, and ordered the carcass thrown down the steep cliff 
onto a meadow in front of the enemy camp. Upon receiving 
this scornful message from above, the discouraged duchess 
abandoned the siege and moved on. 
A person having a nightmare can do many things in his 
dream—— run, hide, fight, scream, jump off a cliff, etc. — 
but no change from any one of these behaviors to another 
would ever terminate the nightmare. We shall henceforth 
refer to this kind of change as first-order change. The one 
way out of a dream involves a change from dreaming to 
waking. Waking, obviously, is no longer a part of the dream, 
but a change to an altogether different state. This kind of 
change will from now on be referred to as second-order change. 
(The equivalence of this distinction with Ashby’s cybernetic 
definition of the two kinds of change, quoted earlier, is 
evident.) Second-order change is thus change of change—— 
the very phenomenon whose existence Aristotle denied so 
categorically. 
; 
N
GW 
St 
Tl 
