you're really into dogs, and not as just a casual weekend 
obby, Henry 
P. Davis’s updated classic will provide you 
ith a well-rounded source of information on choosing a dog, 
aring for it, first aid, training and breeding plus a background 
i the uses dogs have been put to from aiding the blind to 
arding military installations and herding sheep to hunting 
leer. Included are chapters on the history of the dog, 
ifferent breeds, dog classifications, dog types around the 
orld, and major world kennel clubs. 
$24.95 Postpaid 
Depending on who contributed to what section, information 
is sometimes general and sometimes specific, for example 
in the chapter on kennel clubs where all the obedience and 
tield trial rules are printed verbatim. 
If youre specifically 
interested in caring for and training your Irish Setter to be 
a good companion dog, the New Dog Encyclopedia’s too 
expensive and too broad in scope to be of value; however 
if you work with dogs a lot and are really interested in 
developing a broad background on them then this book 
would be a good buy. 
—AP 
The New Dog Encyclopedia 
from: 
Henry P. Davis, Ed. 
Stackpole Books 
1970; 736pp. 
Harrisburg, PA 17105 
or Whole Earth 
Never vary commands. Make them always the same. Thus 
you preclude any confusion or uncertainty. 
Never work or hunt your dog except with his equals or peers 
If you go with men whose dogs will but spoil yours, leave 
them and hunt alone—— or if you go with them, don’t take 
your dog. 
Never lend your dog to anyone, not even a best friend—— any 
more than you would your wife. 
If you lend your dog toa 
friend the chances are you won't be friends for long. 
Never nag at a dog; when you speak to him, mean it. The 
dog constantly nagged at will never amount to much—— and 
can't. 
Never punish if in doubt. Always give the dog the benefit 
of any doubt. But if punishment is unconditionally called 
for, make it severe enough to count. Thus once should suffice 
for any given infraction. .. 
. 
Never tease a dog. Respect him and earn his respect. Don’t 
accept partial or slovenly performance. 
Insist that the dog 
perform completely any task, as he has been taught he 
should. 
9 
_ THE SCIENTOLOGEEK AND THE 
FRANKFURTER MAKER 
“Crap, is how Captain Mediafreak answers the camp 
phone. He’s in charge of the switchboard. “Yeah, this is 
e....Hey, Mom, how you doing?...Are you kidding? They 
Started the summer re-runs in the spring .... Well, I'll 
ell you, my TV was always warmed up, even when it 
asn't on— which means the power was going twenty-four 
ours a day— and one night | caught myself switching 
on the set and realizing the utter absurdity of saving a 
ew seconds before a program on the energy shortage 
fame On— sponsored by an oil company, yet— so | just 
_ 
decided to give it all up and flew out here. Besides, 
Ongue Fu was beginning to get hooked on the tube... 
e's out getting me a hot dog right now...” 
Waiting on the line leading to a frankfurter stand, 
Ongue Fu is showing the photograph of his half-sister 
‘0 a follower of Scientologeek standing in front of him, 
ho doesn’t recognize her, but takes out a photo himself. 
“This was my brother. He’s the one who supposedly 
trove that motorcycle into the bank. But | absolutely 
Hon’t believe he killed himself. We talked about suicide 
Once, just an intellectual discussion, and he said he would 
ever consider it because he preferred to shun 
revocable decisions. | think he must’ve been hypnotized 
by the Communists.” 
He is holding an empty soup can in each hand. 
hey’re attached by wires to a Geek-Meter, which he 
lances at while he speaks. 
“Oh, good,” he notes, “I’m telling the truth again.” 
When he reaches the front of the line, the Scientologeek 
quests, ‘One not dog, please’— holding up his index 
inger in a gesture indicating one that he is convinced 
ust have originated with cave dwellers— “and could 
ou make it well done?” 
The frankfurter maker takes the hot dog that’s 
losest to him on the rotating machine and sticks it 
side a roll. 
“Excuse me, | asked for well done.” 
“This is well done. Show me one that’s well done.” 
“There.” The Scientologeek points toward a hot dog 
‘at appears well done. “That one.” 
“All right,” the frankfurter maker snarls, “you want 
that one, I'll give you that one, but it’s raw.” 
“Never mind. I'll take the one you already fixed up.” 
“Look, you ignorant bastard, I’ve been cooking hot dogs 
on this machine for ten years!” 
The Scientologeek stands there, the eternal customer, 
thinking: Where’s the manager? I’m going to call the 
manager! 
The frankfurter maker stands there, the eternal merchant, 
thinking: How many times do I have to tell you? Ain’t you 
never gonna learn? 
The Scientologeek checks his Geek-Meter to determine 
the validity of his emotion .... 
Flashiebackie: 
At a Scientologeek church meeting, the minister is 
concluding his sermon to a congregation of smiling faces. 
“And so it is important, in understanding unhappiness on 
the job, to be cognizant of the fact that an individual who 
relates to the universe through a machine has a tendency, 
first to imitate the motion of that machine; then to become 
assimilated with the content of that machine; and finally to 
become subservient to that machine. It becomes an object of 
worship, and justifiably so. 
“The machine is a central clearing house for the basic 
needs of that worker. It provides him with a source of 
income. It provides him with a circle of like-minded 
companions. But most of all it provides him with an 
unbounded objectivity which renders subjective praise of 
the machine itself unto a state of clear contradiction. 
“But it functions ....”” 
Tongue Fu orders “One hot dog with everything on it, 
please. And a large Payola-Cola.” 
The frankfurter maker grasps at a straw and pulls the 
proper spigot. 
On his way back to the office where Captain Mediafreak 
is waiting, Tongue Fu sees Rosebud Zwalyimeh, and they 
walk there together, arms linking. He tells her about his 
encounter with the Scientologeek. 
“Self-hypnotism,” says Rosebud. “That’s what this camp 
is really all about. It’s a transformation of the cultural 
programming toward romance, where you keep focusing on 
the image of the person you care for. Only now, instead of 
a sexual object, there’s a constant refocusing on the guru of 
your choice." 
4 
“| do not need a Geek-Meter,”” says Tongue Fu, “‘to tell 
me that I love you.” 
i 
“You know,” sighs Rosebud, ‘’| was raped a few years 
ago by a dude who said ‘I love you’ just before he came. 
And those words have never been the same to me. So just 
put your sweet tongue in my ear and you don’t have to say 
anything. I'll know.” 
Without losing step or moving his head any closer to 
hers— relying entirely on peripheral vision— he places his 
tongue comfortably in her ear, and they continue walking. 
The Merck Veterinary Manual 
Very technical descriptions of diseases and injuries in animals; 
_ 
diagnoses and treatments. 
Written for vets, probably useful 
for anyone caring for animals. Merck doesn’t restrict this 
book’s sale, as it does for the Merck Manual (Pg. 214 the 
human equivalent), so it’s easy to get. 
—DB 
The Merck Veterinary 
Manual 
MERCK 
(A Handbook of Diagnoses 
ry PRINARY. 
and Therapy for the 
, SNUAL 
Veterinarian) 
1973; 1600pp. 
$14.00 Postpaid 
from: 
Merck & Co., Inc. 
Rahway, NJ 07065 
or Whole Earth 
EXOTIC AND ZOO ANIMAL NUTRITION 
SPECIAL MIXTURES FOR MAMMALS 
Otter 
Daily: 
2 |b fish 
44 |b raw meat 
3% lb mixture of ground 
meat, dog or mink 
food 
and bone meal, with 
vitamin-mineral concentrate 
added 
(minimum 
10 mg 
thiamine/l|b of fish). 
Anteater, Aardvark, Aardwolf 
Mix together: 
4 boiled eg, 
8 oz ground 
meat 
8 oz evaporated milk 
16 oz water 
2 oz Pablum or canned dog food 
8 oz dog pellets 
Multivitamin-mineral concentrate 
Mix in blender for best 
acceptability. 
A television camera person approaches them, film 
rolling. Tongue Fu whips his tongue out of Rosebud’s ear 
with almost invisible swiftness, and with it he turns the 
camera around one hundred eighty degrees so that the lens 
is looking back over the camera Person’s shoulder, and then 
just as swiftly Tongue Fu returns his tongue to Rosebud’s 
ear. 
“Ooh, that felt good,” she says. “Do it again.” 
Tongue Fu removes his tongue from Rosebud’s ear but 
instead of returning it he explains his act: ‘“The camera saw 
my tongue in your ear but out of context.” 
“Can't you keep talking while your tongue is still in my 
ear, just like they do in the comic books?” 
He tries, but his words are inaudible. 
When they reach the office, Captain Mediafreak says, 
““My mother sends her regards.” 
A radio bulletin announces: “ Another development in 
the Better Your Exit kamikaze case. Police say they have 
discovered a mysterious Oriental ear in the debris at the 
Chase-Folly Bank. Further details concerning this new clue 
on the six o’clock news.” 
The telephone rings. 
Rosebud says to Tongue Fu, “If you think my ear 
would be out of context— ” 
Captain Mediafreak picks up the phone and says, 
“Bullshit. | mean Crap.” 
[Continued, page 589] 
OD 
AL
peny, 
Po
9 
; 
f 
ae 
4 
ala
oy 
> 
.vti
5, 
‘ 
~ 
S
ee
a) 
