The French-built Aerowatt, distributed by Pennwalt Corp. 
WIND POWER 
Dependable wind-generated electricity in useful amounts is not 
easy to come by. The dream of a simple machine whirring 
away on the roof of a log cabin in the wilderness, with people 
inside enjoying modern conveniences turns out to be elusive. 
Commercially available machines large enough to provide 
power for business-as-usual in a home are very expensive. 
Rebuilding a suitable antique machine often takes more 
money than predicted by the time you get it up on a tower 
and provide the batteries and controls. Most homebuilt 
machines have been capable of only low output and have 
been subject to maddening breakdowns. 
The biggest 
problems are money and reliability. Weather tends to be 
more powerful than most people think. We know of at 
least one installation of an expensive imported 
unit that blew completely away in a mountain storm. 
Ice, 
dust, corrosion, hailstones, insects, lightning, bullets, 
maintenance, metal fatigue, and very high wind forces are 
all problems that must be faced if wind machines are to be 
Practical. 
Because of the high costs of making and testing prototypes, 
some of the more dramatic work is being done by large 
companies who have the staff and facilities. One of the 
reasons for the high cost of existing machines is the low 
production rate. If these corporations come up with good 
designs and mass produce them, we’‘ll see a cost decline. 
But it’s doubtful that wind power will ever be cheap. 
eoredirg the costs over a community is one way to reduce 
e 
bite. 
—JB 
ANNOTATED 
WIND ENERGY BIBLIOGRAPHY 
by Windworks 
Box 329 Route 3 
Mukwonago, WI 
53149 
414-363-4408 
15 June 1974 
The Winds 
(The Origins and Behavior of Atmospheric Motion) 
George Hidy 
Van Nostrand Co. 
1967; 174pp. $3.95 
Simple principles of physics are used to explain the features 
of atmospheric motion. The book is primarily concerned 
with airflow below 35,000 feet, but the upper atmosphere 
is mentioned briefly. Drawings, graphs, and equations are 
used to illustrate the principles of fluid dynamics involved. 
It is technical in nature and, while not required reading for 
the home builder, can be of great value in understanding how 
and why the winds behave as they do. The address of the 
publisher: 
D. Van Nostrand Co., 300 Pike St., Cincinnati, 
OH 45202. 
Climatic Atlas of the United States 
U.S. Department of Commerce 
1968; 80pp. $4.25 
This is a complete source of climatalogical information for 
the United States. Besides information on precipitation, 
temperature and sunshine it includes the following wind 
information: monthly and annual prevailing direction, fastest 
wind, surface wind roses, annual percentage frequencies and 
annual mean wind speed. This data is collected by 
approximately 150 reporting stations across the U.S. The 
Department of Commerce also offers a monthly report for 
each state. It costs $2.40 per year or $.20 per month. Either 
of these is available from: Environmental Data Service, 
National Climatic Center, Federal Building, Asheville, North 
Carolina 28801. 
Windmills and Watermills (See pg. 69) 
John Reynolds 
Praeger Publishers 
1970; 196pp. $12.50 
This survey of man’s earliest machines is well illustrated 
with detailed photographs and drawings. It is accompanied 
by a comprehensive text that follows millwrights and their 
mills through succeeding generations of development. It’s 
not oriented towards the ‘how-to’ but how it was done. The 
book shows a healthy respect for the men and their machines. 
Publishers address: Praeger Publishers, P.O. Box 1323, 
Springfield, MA 01101 
: 
Electric Power From the Wind 
Electric Power from the Wind answers most of the 
beginner’s questions about wind power so he won’t 
have to bother anyone unless he wants to really get 
into it. 
: 
—JB 
Electric Power 
From the Wind 
Henry Clews 
1973; 29pp. 
$2.00 postpaid 
Our batteries are ‘“‘Century House Lighting” batteries made 
by the Century Storage Battery Co., Ltd. in Australia 
and distributed through Quirk’s. They come in completely 
transparent polystyrene cases and have built in “gravity ball” 
indicators which tell you at a glance their state of charge. 
In our house, they are mounted in a long row under a bench 
which can be folded up to inspect them. So far they have 
required no attention whatever. Quirk’s claims that the 
average life of these batteries used in this application is 
15 to 20 years. 
from: 
Solar Wind Co. 
P.O. Box 7 
East Holden, ME 04429 
In our main fuse box we have 15 Amp fuses, so | guess if 
you want to compare our wind electric system to the Power 
Company service, you could say we have a 15 Amp service. 
But since the tools are used during the day and the lights at 
night, we’ve had no problem with overloads as yet. We 
estimate that with our system, which has been in operation 
since August 15, 1972, that we are getting about 110 
Kilowatt-hours of electrical energy per month. This is on 
the order of one fourth the amount of power that the 
average American family consumes from the Power Company. 
Wind Energy Bibliography 
A comprehensive bibliography of information you 
can use to design wind powered devices and systems. 
Includes theory, design, aerodynamics, tower design, 
storage systems etc. Nicely done. 
—JB 
Wind Energy 
from: 
Bibliography 
Windworks 
is 
1973; 65pp. 
Box 329 Rt. 3 
Mukwonago, WI 53149 
$3.00 postpaid 
or Whole Earth 
ls There a Place for the Windmill in the 
- 
Less Developed Countries 
Marshel Merriam 
Technology and Development Institute 
Working Paper Series No. 20 
1972; 36pp. 
This is a study of the state of the art of windmills in respect 
to the less developed countries. It is not technical in nature, 
but covers the components involved in a wind energy system. 
It is written in an easy to understand manner, with chapters 
on appropriate uses for windmill output, selection of a type 
of windmill, will the wind be sufficient, and economics ina 
LDC context. There are useful appendicies on windmill 
manufacturers and the characteristics of available windmills. 
It serves as a basic introduction to the utilization of wind 
power. The publisner’s address: Technology and Development 
Institute, The East-West Center, Honolulu Hawaii 96822. 
Electric Power From the Wind 
Henry Clews 
Solar Wind Publication 
1973; 29pp. $2.00 
This is a basic publication dealing with domestic scale wind 
electric plants. Henry Clews is the U.S. distributor for the 
Swiss made Elektro and the Australian Dunlite wind 
generators, and much of the information in the booklet is 
based on his experience gained powering his homewith wind 
generator power. It is an introduction to the subject, non- 
technical in nature, and he'll include price lists of the 
commercial units he offers. A revised version of the booklet 
will be available in the Fall. Write: Solar Wind PO Box 7, 
East Holden, Maine 04429. 
Proceedings of the United Nations Conference on 
New Sources of Energy 
Rome 21-31 August 1961 
Volume 7, Wind Power 
1964; 408pp. out of print 
This is the most complete technical reference on the use of 
wind power. Because it is a publication of papers presented 
ata conference it lacks the continuity of a book, but those 
who attended the conference were active in various aspects 
of wind energy so much of the information is based on 
experience. The papers are divided into three subject areas: 
Studies of wind behavior and investigations of suitable sites 
for wind driven plants (177 pages), The design and testing 
of wind powered plants (125 pages), and recent developments 
and potential in wind power utilization (101 pages). The 
Papers present experience gained in the operation of wind 
generators ranging from 2 to 100 kw, and includes 
information not available any where else, as in the case of 
“The Aerodynamic Layout of Wing Blades of Wind Turbines 
with High Tip Speed Ratios’ by Hutter. Summarys for all 
the papers are also given in French. Although this volume 
and the companion volumes on geothermal and solar energy 
are out of print, there are plans to reprint them. For 
— 
information write: United Nations Publications LX 2300 
New York, New York 10017. 
Po 
hn 
: 
ae 
Wind and Windspinners 
: o 
By golly, somebody at last has done a good job of 
spelling out what is involved in making a wind 
— 
electric system yourself. The design is for the well- 
known Savonius Rotor (“S” rotor), which is not a 
particularly efficient type, but is easy to build. The 
author is honest about it all, and gives a commenda 
amount of numbers and tables necessary to figure 
out expected performance for this and other machi 
He also discusses the toughest riddle of the S rotor: 
how to get it up on a tower where the wind is and 
yet keep things simple. Altogether it seems to be 
very complete information and you could actually 
make a workable machine from these instructions. 
—JB 
The wind (this is A.T. wind energy) can only transfer 12 
percent of its energy to the S-rotor. After transfer thru 
the gearing to the alternator, only 10.8% of the original is 
eft. The alternator takes this mechanical energy and 
transforms it into electricity, and only 5.4% is still in usable 
form (as electricity). Trundle this electricity down the wire: 
to the eagerly waiting batteries. 
. 
. only 4.86% of the origina 
energy arrives to be stored. Then when this electric energy 
pulled out and used, we find that all but 3.89% has 
disappeared! We scoot this off thru wires, hoping we won't 
lose much more, (but we lose 40% along the way) finding 
Power From the Wind 
The story of the development, testing and failure of the 
huge wind generator at Grandpa’s 
Knob, Vermont, in the 
1940's by the designer himself. While obviously not 
everyone’s interested, this story will fascinate those who are 
seriously into wind power. 
In addition to being a documen 
account of a real project, Mr. Putnam provides many 
charts 
and a Jot of data to support his design decisions. He uses thé 
data to make a proposal for future machines that would not 
fail. There is a great deal of attention paid to characteristics 
of wind, and how to determine a good site for a generator. 
If youve never read a book documenting a project, this is a 
good one to read. Not only is the subject interesting, but 
the book clearly shows how engineers work, what their 
problems are, and how they go about solving them. It also 
The Generation of Electricity by Wind Power 
E.W. Golding 
" 
Philosophical Library (US publisher) 
1965; 318pp. out of print 
Golding, who was active in the design and testing of English: 
built wind generators during the 1950's, collected much of 
the information that was available at that time. The result is 
an extensive treatment of the history and types of windmills 
wind characteristics and large-scale wind power installations. 
The area most extensively treated is wind, with chapters on 
the energy obtainable, wind characteristics and distribution, 
wind power sites, and wind measurements. It offers a good 
balance between technical and non-technical information, 
and includes an extensive bibliography. The publisher is 
considering republishing, their address is: The Philosophical 
Library, 15 East 40th Street, New York, New York. 
| 
Windmilts 
E.N. Fales 
in 
Standard Handbook for Mechanical Engineers, 7th ed. 
Baumeister & Marks 
McGraw-Hill 
1958; pp9-8 to 9-13 $31.00 
These five pages offer a complete introduction to the design 
and operation of windmills. There are a number of simple 
equations dealing with the power available, axial thrust, tip 
speed ratio, and forces acting on the blades. Also dealt with 
is the difference between basic windmill designs and wind 
characteristics relating to wind generators. This is only a 
small section of a book that offers a wealth of technical 
information, many times worth the price. The publishers 
address: McGraw-Hill Book Co., Princeton Road, Highstow 
New Jersey 08520. 
Wind Power for Remote Microwave Stations 
Ulrich Hutter 
Automatic Power 
1959 (aprox.) 16pp. 
This small informative paper puts Dr. Hutter’s aerodynamic 
concepts and experience in an easily understood format. T 
subjects dealt with include wind behavior, tip speed ratios, 
matching the power output to the load, and a description 0 
Hutters own design, the WE-10. The WE-10 was a 10 meter, 
10kw wind generator that was in production from 1950- 
1960 and distributed in the United States by Automatic 
Power Inc., 205 Hutcheson Street, Houston Texas 77003. 
Theory of Wing Sections 
Including a Summary of Airfoil Data 
Ira Abbot and Albert von Doenhoff 
Dover Publications 
1959; 683pp. $4.00 
This is the standard reference on airfoil design. It includes 
