4 fine periodical with nice range—— skiing, climbing, 
ecology, travel, people. Good feeling and good sense 
and doesn ‘t kill you with gloss. 
—SB 
Mountain 
Gé 
‘oacen@en 1972/9 075 
aoe 67 
_ $5.00 11 yr 
in US & Canada 
from: 
1801 York St. 
No summit 
no mountain 
no earth 
only 
three shadows 
walking 
on top of 
mother of pearl 
clouds 
no climbers 
no climb 
no victory 
no defeat 
The Snowshoe Book 
Excellent guide to snowshoeing! Well illustrated with 
drawings by Grace A. Brigham. Pertinent info on 
showshoe types & uses, bindings, extra equipment & 
technique, also sections on racing and games plus 
survival including first aid, avalanches & rescue. Some- 
thing in here for everyone whether novice or expert. 
—AP 
The Snowshoe Book 
William Osgood & 
Leslie Hurley 
1971; 128pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
The Stephen Greene Press 
P.O. Box 1000 
Brattleboro, VT 05301 
or Whole Earth 
The cardinal rule of snowshoeing technique is to remember to 
pick 
up the foot to be moved ahead over the edge of the 
stationary foot and to move this foot far enough ahead so it 
won’t encumber the stationary foot. . . . Likely somewhere 
along the way the beginner will take his first spill into the 
soft, deep snow and wonder how on earth he will ever get back 
on his feet again. Here the pole will come in handy for, if one 
can touch bottom so to speak, the pole can be used as a 
vertical prop. .. 
. If the snowshoes seem hopelessly snarled 
and the snow bottomless, the bindings can be unhitched, the 
snowshoes taken off and set in a good position to use as a 
platform to get back on your feet again. Don’t thrash around 
needlessly. We should all take a tip from oxen who lie quietly 
while their drivers arrange for them to get back on their feet, 
unlike horses who often get panicstricken after a fall in the 
deep snow. 
° 
Mountain Gazette 
Mountain Gazette 
Denver, CO 80206 
Throughout the U.S. of A. the fine art of mogul skiing has 
been reduced to numbered paintings by short skis and their 
riders. Those skiers not ready to join this crazed fad are 
getting into off-trail and edge-of-trail skiing. Normal size 
skis have become almost a trademark of the underground, 
though I’m not sure that every skier on normal length skis 
would wish to be identified with the underground. 
Beware of shortee skis, my friends. Beware of great deals. 
Beware of the easy. Beware of industry. Beware of Richard 
Nixon. They will not take you exactly where you want to go; 
and their speed is only in diverting movements, not in 
velocity. They will plateau you. 
And there is no joy there. No joy. 
—Dick Dorworth 
XC Cross Country Skiing 
A nice little book with the real flavor of cross country 
skiing. Written by contributing authors, it starts off with a 
thorough coverage of the history of the sport and proceeds 
to chapters on getting in shape, nordic techniques, equipment 
evaluation and use, and where to ski tour around the U.S. 
including sources of maps. John Caldwell, who authored the 
section on waxing (also author of The New Cross-Country 
Ski Book Pg. 270) did a particularly good job. For the price, 
this book’s a bargain. 
—AP 
XC Cross 
Country Skiing 
Rob & Marcia Chickering, 
Anne Hicks, Eds. 
1972; 160pp. 
$2.00 postpaid 
Tobey Pub. Co. 
Box 428 
New Canaan, CT 06840 
or Whole Earth 
Tubbs Snowshoes 
Tubbs makes the Cadillac of snowshoes; made of bent New 
England hardwoods and rawhide—— Sierra Designs sells ‘em, 
too. 
—David Sowd 
Vermont Tubbs, Inc. 
18 Elm St. 
Wallingford, VT 05773 
* 
Teach Yourself to Ski 
The author is one of the best ski technicians around and has 
recently been hired as coach of the French Ski team. He 
taught Patrick Russell how to race and ski fast, etc. 
The book is a good way to get around the expense of ski 
instructors lessons. As the author says, something self-taught 
is remembered much longer. It was published in 1970, so it 
is a bit dated with respect to recent changes in ski technology, 
such as the trend to short skis, trick skiing and graduated 
length ski teaching but the material is presented in a great 
format with sections and teaching sections. 
—Graham Sudberry 
Teach Yourself 
to Ski 
Georges Joubert 
1970; 202pp. 
$6.95 postpaid 
from: 
Aspen Ski Masters 
P.O. Box 3071 
Aspen, CO 81611 
or Whole Earth 
c 
e*phose 
Three parts of a turn can be distinguished, that is, if the turn 
is complete enough: The first third, which follows the 
initiation and which approaches the fall-line, the second third, 
the fall-line phase, and the third phase which we call the 
completion of the turn. Your skis are not subjected to the 
same forces during these three phases: 1) In the first third, 
centrifugal force, which pushes you to the outside of the 
turn, is in part neutralized by the resultant of gravity which 
pulls you downhill, thus toward the inside of the turn. 
. 
. 
Due to this fact, you do not have much difficulty holding, 
and there is little risk of sideslipping or slowing down, 
except if your initiation was too powerful and your skis 
ended up crosswise to your trajectory. 2) In the second 
third of the turn, obviously you must resist centrifugal 
force, but you also feel a considerable forward acceleration 
which helps to hold your skis in the arc. This acceleration 
is due to two causes. First, because of the fact that the slope 
followed by your skis, fairly flat in the beginning (in the 
traverse) increases until the fall-line. Next, because the 
resultant of gravity, which pulls you downhill, is exerted in 
a direction close to that of your displacement. 3) In the 
third phase of the turn this is no longer true as the resultant 
of gravity which pulls you downhill adds its effect to that 
of centrifugal force in increasing your sideslip. The braking 
effect of this sideslip is even greater because your skis move 
from a maximum slope (the fall-line) to a lesser slope (your 
traverse). This explains the greater difficulty in controlling 
the last third of the arc of your turns without sideslipping. 
You will notice this difficulty especially when the snow 
conditions are difficult (ice, powder, among others) and 
when you must shorten the radius of a turn as you complete 
it. It is quite obvious that for turns which do not leave the 
fall-line very much, the first and the third phases practically 
disappear and the problems posed by such turns are essentially 
those posed by the second phase of a completed turn. 
Check Wedeln on a 
Very Steep Slope 
663 
GVU
WON
