1g 
design and construction. 
This book com- 
e revolution. Editor Lloyd Kahn has built 
f 
his own houses and worked on innumerable 
e use 
of photographs (by co-editor Bob Easton) 
uld 
change bookmaking. 
I'd call it a Bible of 
e measure now of how excellent a homemade 
ok can be. 
Shelter 
1973; 176pp. 
~ 
zs 
° 
FIRST GEODESIC DOME, 1922. 
Shelter Publications 
be 
$6.00 postpaid 
from: 
st raitBle= 
Atte 
A» 
¥ 
SN 
ee 2a 
Cj 
(Crom 
Oe 
aS ESBS 
+ HEN 19 EASIBST POLIGONAL RUIKOING 
— 
+ SBE REID FOR MONE MT -S1OED STRUCTURES 
EVEN-SIDRO TOMIGONS EMsresT 
Iding small to start will give you basic experience. A 
jall shed can be a place to live in or storé things while you 
dy the land and decide what to do next. You can watch 
@ rising and setting of sun and moon, study outlook and 
entation, learn about seasonal temperatures and wind 
on, vegetation, rainfall: the many considerations that 
Id help you decide what kind of house will suit your 
and fit the site. 
1e small building can then be expanded as needed. You 
ll change during the building process, and building in 
2 ements gives you flexibility and adaptability as you go. 
jilding is hard work, costly and relatively permanent. 
like a painter or potter, the builder cannot throw away 
unsatisfactory result. There it stands, for all to see, for 
s. Thus there is wisdom, especially for a new 
Starting small, simply, and heeding local advice. 
ilder, in 
Duilder can take two very important steps to save 
gy: build small and insulate well. 
out 10 years of building I’ve realized how simple 
Pretentious a home can be. Building a house needn't 
shouldn't) be a trip. Time and again I've been led 
dstract Concept into a lengthy or impractical building 
¢ct when a chicken house or small barn design would 
eC 
n far better. So now when people ask for advice, 
m to study the farm buildings near their site. They 
as models for a house, with minor adaptations. One 
4 framing, vertical walls, lightweight, roll roofing. 
lated, with a fireplace to sit by on cold nights. Used 
Jen doors and windows. Kitchen that opens out into 
arden. 
Quick to build so you can get on with life. 
Rafters at Ridge point -Z.uiays te 
frame 
BOSS SECTION OF COUPLE WELL TENT 
We decided to build a big dome before we ever saw the 
land we were to build it on. We bought lumber at the 
jumber mill and shingles at the shingle store. Now, with 
far less money and far more sense we think of building our 
sleeping shelters out of WHAT IS HERE. One shelter will 
be built out of stone (which is plentiful here) others will 
be made from rammed earth, adobe bricks, etc. Floorboards, 
doors, moulding etc. can be gleaned from old abandoned 
buildings. We have learned that with less money and more 
scavenging we are building better and better structures. 
This seems ‘to hold true in all areas of our lives. 
In terms 
of food, shelter, health care, education, communication: 
the less we are dependent on the mainstream culture for 
materials, goods and information the more high quality 
these aspects of our lives become. 
What's good about 90° walls: they don’t catch dust, rain 
doesn't sit on them, easy to add to; gravity, pot tension, 
holds them in place. 
It's easy to build in counters, shelves, 
Shelter Network 
Photographers, travelers, builders: send us a card if you want 
to contribute to our next book Shelter 2, due 1976 or so. 
This book can be a guide to what we’re looking for. We’d 
like reports on local building types, the process of con- 
struction, what can be done inside dwellings, city tenant 
survival, and an important aspect of shelter often overlooked: 
maintenance, or tending. We'll pay contributors. 
If you can 
contribute, gather material, hold on to it, send us a card, and 
we ‘ll be in touch. 
—-LK 
Shelter Publication 
P.O. Box 279 
Bolinas, CA 94924 
He looked upon us as sophisticated children—— smart but 
not wise. 
d 
Saxton T. Pope (said of Ishi) 
Metaphorically, our work on domes now appears to us to 
have been smart: mathematics, computers, new materials, 
plastics. Yet reevaluation of our actual building experiments, 
publications, and feedback from others leads us to emphasize 
that there continue to be many unsolved problems with dome 
homes. 
Difficulties in making the curved shapes livable, short 
lives of modern materials, and as-yet-unsolved detail and 
weatherproofing problems. 
We now realize that there will be no wondrous new solution 
to housing, that our work, though perhaps smart, was by no 
means wise. 
In the past year, we have discovered that there 
is far more to learn from wisdom of the past: from 
structures shaped by imagination, not by mathematics, and 
built of materials appearing naturally on the earth, than 
from any further extension of whiteman technoplastic 
prowess. 
g 
. 
Mountain Books 
“ 
P.O. Box 4811 
Santa Barbara, CA 93103 
or Whole Earth 
arrange furniture, bathtubs, beds. We are 90° to the earth. 
Not important how much a building weighs. 
tt is important 
how much a bird weighs, but a building doesn’t have to 
move or fly. Certainly an adobe house weighs tremendously. 
So? Would it be better if it were built of plastic of 1/100th 
the weight and 10,000 times as polluting in its manufacture? 
Calling Earth a spaceship is like stepping out into a clear 
night in New Mexico and saying, “Wow, it looks just like 
the planetarium.” 
Driving down a small country lane in Norfolk, this building 
in the middle of a distant field. A peaceful presence, at 
rest with its surroundings. 
After hundreds of years, abandoned, sinking gracefully back 
into the landscape its materials originally came from. 
Vines climbing up the walls, in through the windows. Soon 
it will fold in the middle, kneel, in time become a mound in 
the field. Cycle completed. 
Inside it’s cheerful and light, unlike many other dank 
abandoned houses where death lingers. 
Generations of shelter, births and deaths, sons and daughters. 
Countless fires built, meals cooked, needs tended. 
What will the houses we are building now look like in 300 
years? 
. 
- 
. Building this house was more of like feeling where you 
went as you started working with it, you know, the 
material and just playing it from there. Visual sort of feel 
there was no preplanning. .. 
. 
AB
GS
0 
SA
