he Techniques of Sprang 
f you know Peter Collingwood’s Techniques of Rug Weaving 
(Pg. 165), you'll instantly recognize his companion volume 
on this age-old, little known but universally used 
ethod of finger-controlling the making of fabric and 
sculpture. 
You'll find the same mastery of technique and 
equipment, and the same understanding of fibre, its qualities, 
and the effects produced when it’s used in particular ways, 
all painstakingly translated into description, diagrams, and 
photographs. 
Extensive scholarly bibliography and index 
included. As usual this man’s ability to distill a wealth of 
information is awe-inspiring, 
The Techniques of 
of Sprang 
eter Collingwood 
974; 324pp. 
$25.00 postpaid 
‘rom: 
Natson Guptil Pub. 
2160 Patterson St. 
Zincinnati, OH 45214 
»r Whole Earth 
Sprang is a method of making fabric by manipulating the 
parallel threads of a warp that is fixed at both ends. The 
manipulation can take the form of interlinking, interlacing 
or intertwining of adjacent threads or groups of threads, 
see Fig. 1. Such structures do not require the addition of 
any other threads to stabilize them. The work is carried out 
row by row at one end of the warp. As an inevitable result 
of the warp being fixed at both ends, corresponding but 
contrary movements of the threads appear simultaneously 
at its other end. 
Step-By-Step Tablet Weaving 
The perfect cardweaving book is in the future, but here’s a 
very good start. Advantages for beginners: clearly explains 
how the shedding process works, gives two of several methods 
of warping and threading cards, demonstrates how threading 
direction affects the texture of the piece, and gives thorough 
weaving, joining and end finishing instructions. Drawbacks 
are hurriedly finished sample pieces and incomplete remedies 
for common problems like “Argh, my warp thread broke!” 
and “How do they keep the edges so straight?” The section 
on the complex double-turn techniques is exceptional. 
—DS 
TABLET 
W 
ee 
<i 
Step-by-Step 
Tablet Weaving 
Marjorie and 
William Snow 
1973; 80 pp 
$2.50 postpaid 
from: 
Golden Press 
P.O..Box 700 
Racine, WI 53404 
or Whole Earth 
Tablet: Weaving Terms 
a warp 
4. tablets 
b. wett 
@. shed 
¢. plain tablet weave 
f, shuttle 
The structure of tablet-woven fabric raises the question of 
how the method was probably developed. 
It is possible to 
Produce identical weaves without tablets, twisting two or 
more warp ends by hand before inserting a weft. The use 
of tablets with holes to twist the warp while forming a shed 
appears an ingenious solution to the difficulty of performing 
both operations by hand. The value of the twist is clear: the 
twisting together of warp yarns makes for a thicker, stronger 
fabric, and is related to the process of twisting yarns to make 
rope. 
Arg 
oeeks 
i 
Coptic design involving several systems of extra twining 
thread. 
Cardweaving 
A more exciting book with a better history and list of 
suppliers and more tips on the weaving process itself. 
Occasional omissions of basics like “‘put your knots at 
the ends of the warp, never in the center” make it tough on 
beginners. But if you already know them, the book moves 
easily through a number of techniques encouraging you to 
explore the practically open-ended variations and sculptural 
possibilities in cardweaving. 
Cardweaving 
Candace Crockett 
1973; 144pp. 
$10.50 postpaid 
from: 
Watson-Guptil Pub. 
2160 Patterson St. 
Cincinnati, OH 45214 
or Whole Earth 
a 
CP 
ww 
Cards are shifted laterally to move warp threads, create 
texture, and shift color. The cards to be shifted are actually 
picked up and moved to a new position, then tucked back into 
the pack of cards. 
pat} 
> LATE ARRI VALS 
Ikat: An Introduction 
At last, a thorough, well-written instruction manual for 
Japanese Ikat, the ancient technique of resist dyeing warp, 
weft threads or both, before weaving to create ghostly 
/uminescent patterns in the woven fabric. All four basic 
types of ikat are covered, weft, warp, double, and weft 
figure. An excellent brief history and bibliography are 
included. 
Be forewarned: 
the booklet presupposes know- 
ledge of basic weaving and dyeing techniques and 
terminology. 
Instructions for calculating, warping and binding me pattern 
bundles are simple and clear. 
The special illustrated is 
dynamite: speedy and tight, yet unties easily with a sharp 
yank (a slip of the scissors in the center of your carefully 
bound, dipped and dried-8-times pattern is disastrous!) 
There 
are directions for a cold-water indigo dye process which 
once it’s made up, can stand in the vat and be roused over 
a two-month span. 
It produces dark, rich fast color on cotton 
or silk, a bit lighter on wool, and dyes up to 20 /bs of 
material. A note on materials: 
1) The special nylon tape 
recommended for the bindings is faster and more convenient 
to use than other materials like raffia or string. 
It’s about 
two inches wide, can readily be split into narrower strips, and 
shrinks with heat to even further tighten the resist areas. 
Results in sharper pattern. 
2) The dye vat proportions are 
set for the Kasuri Dye Works indigo. (Straw into Gold’s is 
similar and can be interchanged with it, Pg. 562). Since 
indigos do vary in strength depending on how much and 
what they’re “cut” with, you may have to adjust the dye 
vat proportions to suit the indigo from your usual source. 
—DS 
Ikat: An 
Introduction 
Diane Ritch and 
Yoshiko Wada 
10pp 
$2.25 Postpaid 
from: 
Kasuri Dye Works 
P.O. Box 7101 
Berkeley, CA 94707 
(tape and indigo 
also available) 
or Whole Earth 
The Mortensen Spinning Wheel 
/ have spun on several wheels, but the Mortensen is my 
favorite. Made of solid birch with a natural finish, it has 
an especially heavy and well-balanced wheel; it doesn’t 
have that “dead spot’ many wheels do. Another really 
good feature is its large orifice which allows you to spin fat 
yarns as well as fine, and is also great for plying. 
For me, 
spinning is a pleasure on the finely crafted Mortensen wheel. 
—Mary de Bone 
The Mortensen Wheel 
$150 
from: 
John Mortensen 
P.O. Box 343 
Berkeley, CA 94701 
(Other handsome spinning & weaving equipment from John 
Mortensen: an English inkle loom that doubles as a warping 
board, a lucetta for making square braids, and a rope machine, 
a fascinating and efticient gadget for plying fibres into rope. 
Write for catalog. —DS) 
The Nagy Wheel 
A castle wheel with action so smooth it nearly spins itself. 
Made of Kauri wood, mahogany or walnut stained and 
superbly finished, it’s guaranteed for the lifetime of the 
maker against faulty workmanship. 
It spins medium to fine 
yarns. Not as versatile as the Mortensen, much more ex- 
pensive, but oh, so beautiful. 
The Nagy Wheel 
$225 
Plus postage 
from: 
Istvan Nagy 
P.O. Box 9637 
Wellington, New Zealand 
or Straw Into Gold (Pg. 562) 
