— 
7 Adiscovery m more prime than Einstein's Relonvity. 
idee ‘s distinction between the “ 
“experience” of 
relation” of I-You. It can cure at once 
the twin pathologies of Transcendent God and 
Controllable Nature. In “I-You” is the possibility 
; of love that does not possess, as well as the realest 
perception of learning, which is coevolution. Martin 
Buber’s original German torrent is well served by 
is 
_ the new translation and prologue by Walter 
Kaufmann. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Ken Kesey] 
Iand Thou 
Martin Buber 
1970; 185pp. 
$1 95 Postpaid 
from: 
Charles Scribner’s Sons 
Vreeland Ave. 
Totowa, NJ 70512 
or Whole Earth 
| perceive something. 
| feel something. 
| imagine something 
| want something. 
| sense something. 
| think something. 
The life of a human being does not consist merely of all 
this and its like. 
All this and its like is the basis of the realm of It. 
But the realm of You has another basis. 
When | confront a human being as my You and speak the 
basic word |-You to him, then he is no thing among things 
nor does he consist of things. 
He is no longer He or She, limited by other Hes and Shes, 
a dot in the world grid of space and time, nor a condition 
that can be experienced and described, a loose bundle of 
named qualities. Neighborless and seamless, he is You 
and fills the firmament. Not as if there were nothing but 
he; but everything else lives in Ais light. 
In truth language does not reside in man but man stands 
in language and speaks out of it. 
s 
Extended, the lines of relationships intersect in the 
external you. Every single You is a glimpse of that. 
Through every single You the basic word addresses the 
eternal You. 
A man’s relation to the “particular something” that 
arrogates the supreme throne of his life’s values, pushing 
eternity aside, is always directed toward the experience 
and use of an It, a thing, an object of enjoyment. For 
only this kind of relation can bar the view to God, by 
interposing the impenetrable It-world; the relationship 
that says You always opens it up again. 
Whoever says You does not have something for his object. 
For wherever there is something there is also another 
something; every It borders on other Its; It is only by virtue 
of bordering on others. But where You is said there is no 
something. You has no borders. 
Whoever says You does not have something; he has nothing. 
But he stands in relation. 
Throughout all of this the tree remains my object and has its 
place and its time span, its kind and condition. 
But it can also happen, if will and grace are joined, that as | 
contemplate the tree | am drawn into a relation, and the 
tree ceases to be an It. The power of exclusiveness has 
seized me. 
You can read \ and Thou in two hours and not get 
over it for the rest of your life. Buber tells you how 
you stand, either in a dialogical relationship with the 
Creative Force or in a position of “havingness”’ where 
you are a thing bounded by other things. 
: 
—Ken Kesey 
Cream Rises 
PHILOSOPHY 
Iand Thou 
Buber’s best 456 
Walden 
The third revolution 
47 
Pilgrim at Tinker Creek Lady Thoreau 
456. 
Ideas and Integrities 
Fuller’s best 3 
Manas Humanist news 
410 
Tao Teh King Taoism 
12 
Ching Applied philosophy 
433 
A Treasury of Traditional Wisdom 
Best compendium 
456 
Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance 
Thoreau on a bike 735 
Pilgrim at Tinker Creek 
As Tom Wolfe did a while back, Annie Dillard 
Arrived this year upon American consciousness with 
an introductory paragraph: 
| used to have a cat, an old fighting tom, who would jump 
through the open window by my bed in ‘the middle of the 
night and land on my chest. 
I'd half-awaken. He'd stick 
his skull under my nose and purr, stinking of urine and 
blood. Some nights he kneaded my bare chest with his 
front paws, powerfully, arching his back, as if sharpening 
his claws, or pummeling a mother for milk. And some 
mornings I'd wake in daylight to find my body covered 
with paw prints in blood; | looked as though I’d been 
Painted with roses. 
And so her book, the prose of a poetess, the insight 
of a rare Natural Philosopher—— as scientists used to 
be called (and should again). Thoreau, people 
compare her to, as she draws many-leveled con- 
clusions from by-the-creekbank observations. A 
gifted contemplative. As R.K. Welsh wrote to the 
Epilog, “Tinker Creek flows through us all.” 
—SB 
Pilgrim at Tinker Creek 
Annie Dillard 
1974; 271pp. 
$7.95 postpaid 
from: 
Harper’s Mag. Press 
2 Park Ave. 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
Evolution loves death more than it loves you or me. This 
is easy to write, easy to read, and hard to believe. The 
words are simple, the concept clear—— but you don’t 
believe it, do you? Nor do !. How could |, when we're 
both so lovable? 
The Principle of Indeterminacy turned science inside-out. 
Suddenly determinism goes, causality goes, and we are 
left with a universe composed of what Eddington calls, 
“mind-stuff.’”’ Listen to these physicists: Sir James Jeans, 
Eddington’s successor, invokes ‘‘fate,’’ saying that the 
future “may rest on the knees of whatever gods there 
be.’’ Eddington says that ‘’the physical world is entirely 
abstract and without ‘actuality’ apart from its linkage to 
consciousness.”” Heisenberg himself says, ‘method and 
object can no longer be separated. The scientific world-view 
has ceased to be a scientific view in the true sense of the 
word.”’ Jeans says that science can no longer remain 
opposed to the notion of free will. Heisenberg says, 
“there is a higher power, not influenced by our wishes, 
which finally decides and judges.’’ Eddington says that 
our dropping causality as a result of the Principle of 
Indeterminacy “‘leaves us with no clear distinction 
between the Natural and the Supernatural.” And so forth. 
Thomas Merton wrote, ‘There is always a temptation to 
diddle around in the contemplative life, making itsy-bitsy 
statues.’ There is always an enormous temptation in all 
of life to diddle around making itsy-bitsy friends and meals 
and journeys for itsy-bitsy years on end. 
It is so self- 
conscious, so apparently moral, simply to step aside from 
the gaps where the creeks and winds pour down, saying, 
| never merited this grace, quite rightly, and then to 
sulk along the rest of your days on the edge of rage. | 
won't have it. The world is wilder than that in all 
directions, more dangerous and bitter, more extravagant 
and bright. 
GOODS: the harshest statements at the fe 
r-) nd 
of every mystical tradition and literature Earth 
They converge alright, but not without work 
own. 
—SB 
Whitall N. ey 
1971; 
1144p 
One W. 39th St. — 
New York, NY. 
10018 
(ane 
=2 
or Whole Earth 
Image worship is very necessary for beginners. 
= 4 
—Swami Sivananda 
— 
e 
a 
ia 
The master said; ‘Everything that exists is God.’ The pu 
understood it literally, but not in the right spirit. While hi 
was Passing through the street he met an elephant. The 
away!’ The pupil argued 
i in his mind, Why should | mo 
away? | am God, so is the elephant God; what fear has God 
of himself?’ Thinking thus, he did not move. At last the 
“ 
elephant took him up in his trunk and dashed him aside. — 
He was hurt severely, and going back to his master, he _ %. 
related the whole adventure. The master said: 
‘All right. 
— 
You are God, the elephant is God also, but God in the 
— 
shape of the elephant-driver was warning you from abov 
Why did you not pay heed to his warnings?’ 
—Sri Ramakrishna 
Who is she that looketh forth as the morning, fair as the 
moon, clear as the sun, and terrible as an army with ban 
—Song of Solomon, VI. 1 05," 
When you wake up you will find that this whole world, 
above and below, is nothing other than a regarding of onest 
—Hakuin 
- 
: 
This man is known by five signs. First, he never complains. 
Next, he never makes excuses: when accused, he leaves t 
facts to vindicate him. Thirdly, there is nothing he wants 
in earth or heaven but what God wills himself. Fourthly, | 
is not moved in time. Fifthly, he is never rejoiced: heis — 
joy itself. 
; —Eckhart 
(A Sufi) was asked: ‘Who isa Sufi?’ He replied: 
neither possesses nor is possessed.’ 
—AI-Kalabadhi 
The man who possesses a knowledge of God, will not be 
very ambitious. 
—Sextus the Pythagorean 
3 
. 
‘Where did you learn this from?’ asked Nanpo Tsek’u 
‘| learned it from the Son of Ink,’ replied Nu Yu, ‘and 
Son of Ink learned it from the Grandson of Learni 
Grandson of Learning from Understanding, and Unde 
standing from Insight. Insight learned it from Prac 
Practice from Song, and Song from Silence, Silenc 
the Void, and the Void learned it from the Seemin 
Beginning.’ 
—Chuang-tse 
