The Cosmic Connection 
From the American co-author of the classic 
intelligent Life in the Universe (Pg.312) comes 
further speculation, further data (Mariner photos 
of Mars and interpretation), further probing of what 
the notion “further” can get you into. Deep space, 
that’s what. . 
. exterior and interior. 
—SB 
The Cosmic Connection 
(An Extraterrestrial Perspective) 
Carl Sagan 
1973; 274pp. 
$7.95 postpaid 
from: 
Anchor 
Doubleday & Co., Inc. 
501 Franklin Ave. 
Garden City, L.I., NY 
11530 
or Whole Earth 
Jokes are a way of dealing with anxiety. There is a class of 
jokes dealing with extraterrestrial life. In one, the extra- 
terrestrial visitor lands on Earth, walks up to a gasoline 
pump or a gumball machine—— the accounts differ—— and 
asks, ‘What's a nice girl like you doing in a place like this?” 
So we gazed at each other for a while in something of a 
standoff—— man and dolphin, with a meter of water 
_ 
between us. Suddenly, Elvar came booming out of the 
water head first, until only his tail flukes were in contact 
with the water. 
He towered over me, doing a kind of slow 
back-pedaling, then uttered a noise. 
It was a single 
“syllable,” high-pitched and squeaky. 
It had, well, a sort of 
Donald Duck timbre. 
It sounded to me that Elvar had said 
“More!” 
| bounded out of the room, found John attending to some 
electronic equipment, and announced excitedly that Elvar 
had apparently just said ‘‘More!”’ 
John was laconic. ‘Was it in context?” was all he asked. 
Cream Rises 
COSMOS 
Cosmic View 
Best intro 
5 
Intelligent Life in the Universe 
Classic Sagan 
312 
Star Maker 
Best fiction 
5 
Atlas of the Universe 
Best coffee table 
6 
The Cosmic Connection 
Recent Sagan 
487 
The Unexpected Universe 
From here 
6 
Hubble Atlas of the Galaxies Photo collection 
5 
Life Beyond Earth & 
The Mind of Man 
Good for NASA. Cosmic interplay at a symposium 
by Carl Sagan, George Wald, Philip Morrison, and 
others. Disturb your meditations. 
—SB 
Life Beyond Earth & 
The Mind of Man 
(A symposium held at 
Boston University on 
November 20, 1972) 
Richard Berendzen, Ed. 
1973; 106pp. 
$1 .60 postpaid 
from: 
Superintendent of Documents 
Government Printing Office 
Washington, DC 20402 
or Whole Earth 
Some years ago | heard the silly question asked: Why is our 
world 4-1/2 billion years old?”’ And the silly answer: 
“Because it took that long to find that out.” That is a 
profound thought and it raises another thought that is 
meaningful in our time: When you have got to the point 
at which you find that out, have you got much longer to 
go? That is our problem. 
—Wald 
e 
| think the most important thing the message will bring us, 
if we can finally understand it, will be a description, if one 
exists at all, of how these beings were able to fashion a 
world in which they could live, persevere, and maintain 
something of worth and beauty for a long period of time. 
—Morrison 
e 
What | am imagining is that when the facts | have just stated 
become generally known, people wil! know that there area 
million other civilizations, all fabulously ugly, and all a lot 
smarter than us. Knowing this seems to me to bea 
useful 
and:character-building experience for mankind. 
—Sagan 
“Yes, it was in context.” 
“Good, that’s one of the words he knows.” 
Eventually, John believed that Elvar had learned some dozens 
of words of English. To the best of my knowledge, no human 
has ever learned a single word of delphinese. Perhaps this 
calibrates the relative intelligence of the two species. 
Our own universe is very likely itself a vast black hole. We 
have no knowledge of what lies outside our universe. This is 
true by definition, but also because of the properties of 
black holes. Objects that reside in them cannot ordinarily 
leave them. 
In a strange sense, our universe may be filled 
with objects that are not here. They are not separate 
universes. They do not have the mass of our universe. 
But 
in their separateness and their isolation they are autonomous 
universes. 
There is an even more bizarre prospect. 
In one speculative 
view (Chapter 36), an object that plunges down a rotating 
black hole may re-emerge elsewhere and elsewhen—— in 
another place and another time. Black holes may be aper- 
tures to distant galaxies and to remote epochs. They may 
be short-cuts through space and time. 
If such holes in the 
fabric of the space-time continuum exist, it is by no means 
certain that it would ever be possible for an extended object 
like spacecraft to use a black hole for travel through space 
or time. The most serious obstacle would be the tidal force 
exerted by the black hole during approach—— a force that 
would tend to pull any extended matter to pieces. And yet 
it seems to me that a very advanced civilization might cope 
with the tidal stresses of a black hole. 
COSMOS 
The Myth of the Eternal Return 
Addicted to our own “history,” we seem to be 
demonstrating that the complete se/f-made man Is 
the suicide. 
Other, stabler, cultures see their origins and guide- 
lines in Cosmos instead. 
This is a book of such 
illogical, sacred, healthy practices. Author Eliade 
considers it his best book. 
—SB 
The Myth 
ofthe 
_ 
Eternal Rett wm 
The Myth of the 
EUIADE 
Eternal Return 
(or, Cosmos and History) 
Mircea Eliade 
1954; 195pp. 
$2.45 postpaid 
from: 
Princeton Univ. Press 
Princeton, NJ 08540 
or Whole Earth 
MIRCEA 
Fa 
sidbes 
The chief difference between the man of the archaic and 
traditional societies and the man of the modern societies 
with their strong imprint of Judaeo-Christianity lies in 
the fact that the former feels himself indissolubly connected 
with the Cosmos and the cosmic rhythms, whereas the 
latter insists that he is connected only with History. Of 
course, for the man of the archaic societies, the Cosmos too 
has a “history,” if only because it is the creation of the 
gods and is held to have been organized by supernatural 
beings or mythical heroes. But this “history’’ of the Cosmos 
and of human society is a “‘sacred history,” preserved and 
transmitted through myths. More than that, it is a ‘“history” 
that can be repeated indefinitely, in the sense that the 
myths serve as models for ceremonies that periodically 
reactualize the tremendous events that occurred at the 
beginning of time. 
We might say that the archaic world knows nothing of 
“profane” activities: 
every act which has a definite meaning 
—— hunting, fishing, agriculture; games, conflicts, sexuality, 
—— in some way Participates in the sacred. 
What does living mean for a man who belongs to a 
traditional culture? Above all, it means living in accordance 
with extrahuman models, in conformity with archetypes. 
Hence it means living at the heart of the real since—— as 
Chapter | sufficiently emphasized—— there is nothing truly 
real except the archetypes. 
Living in conformity with the 
archetypes amounted to respecting the ‘‘law,”’ since the law 
was only a primordial hierophany, the revelation in illo 
tempore of the norms of existence, a disclosure by a 
divinity or a mystical being. And if, through the repetition 
of paradigmatic gestures and by means of periodic ceremonies, 
archaic man succeeded, as we have seen, in annulling time, 
he none the less lived in harmony with the cosmic rhythms; 
we could even say that he entered into these rhythms (we 
need only remember how “real” night and day are to him, 
and the seasons, the cycles of the moon, the solstices). 
And running out of Coprates were features that were very 
curious indeed—— sinuous channels, meandering through 
the highlands above the Coprates Valley and graced with 
beautiful little tributaries. 
If such channels had been seen 
on Earth, they would unhesitatingly have been attributed 
to running water. 
But on Mars the surface pressures are 
so low that liquid water would instantly vaporize, just as 
the pressures on Earth are so low that liquid carbon dioxide 
vaporizes instantly. 
. 
. 
. The channels revealed by Mariner 9 
speak eloquently of the possibility of massive climatic 
change on Mars. 
In this view, Mars is today in the throes 
of an ice age, but in the past—— no one knows just how 
long ago—— it possessed much more clement and Earth- 
like conditions. 
SWT
SITI
