Some Basic Facts About China, is a short inexpensive 
oklet published in Peking by the editors of China 
econstructs. 
It’s an excellent introduction for anyone 
pondering about how basic institutions in China work; 
., communes, schools, medical care, women’s liberation, 
faxes etc. (China Reconstructs, 1974, 91pp., paper, $.45). 
THE THIRTIES AND FORTIES 
These years were the real period in which modern China 
incubated. Death and birth were simultaneous processes: 
Chiang and the Nationalists dying. Mao and the communists 
ging born. Strangely, this was the period when some of the 
greatest Clarity on the subject of China was evidenced by 
Americans. Joe McCarthy was still in the future. People 
reported what they saw and felt. There was no fear. Even 
5 government officials had their eyes open and spoke the 
futh without a lot of pseudo-political science lingo and lies. 
lon Service was such an official. He spoke Chinese, and was 
aised in China. He worked in the Foreign Service and spent 
part of the war years with the U.S. Observer Mission in Yenan 
th Mao. His reports were lucid, perceptive, engrossing and 
honest. He reported what he saw. He lost his job. He was 
called a commie. It screwed up his life. But he fought it all 
le way. 
last his reports about what he saw in China on the eve of 
Viao’s takeover have been published. They are incredibly 
interesting. For they show that it was American fear of 
sommmunism, not Mao's implacable hatred or opposition to 
ie US which set us off on almost thirty years of opposition 
id war. If you’re interested in how the nightmare began, 
gad Lost Chance in China, The World War II. 
Dispatches of John Service, edited by Joseph Esherick, 
andom House, 1974, 399 pp., $12.95). (Paper edition out 
on.) 
{The Communists) are displaying a degree of initiative and 
planning ability which I have never before encountered in 
hina... Their manners, habits of thought, and direct 
handling of problems seem more American than Oriental... 
here is no war weariness... There is surprising political 
tonsciousness... There is no feeling of restraint or supression 
The leaders make excellent personal impressions. The 
ilitary men look and act like capable military men... The 
Communist Party because of the struggle it has had to 
continue, has kept its revolutionary character, (and) has 
‘own to a healthy moderate maturity. One can not help 
oming to feel that this movement is strong and successful, 
d that it has such drive behind it and is tied so closely to 
the people that it will not easily be killed. 
—(John S. Service, U.S. Foreign 
Service Officer after 
returning from Mao's Yenan 
in 1944) 
*Stilwell and The American Experience in China, by 
Barbara Tuchman (Macmillan, 621 pp., 1970, $10.00) is a 
fine account of General ‘‘Vinegar Joe” Stilwell’s years in 
China during the war. Stilwell was one of our more 
Outspoken emmissaries to China. His diary, The Stilwell 
lapers, Ed. by Theodore H. White (Shocken, 260 pp., 1972, 
Paper $3.95) is an incredibly funny, outrageous and 
formative account of the war years. Stilwell was the 
China-Burma Theatre Commander and had the unenviable 
Job of dealing with Chiang Kai-shek’s corrupt and venal 
government, which he referred to as “the manure heap.” 
tilwell’s inclination was to send some American aid to 
Mao's forces in the hills; the only force in China at the time 
fighting the Japanese. Chiang nixed the aid and won the 
title of ‘The Peanut” from Stilwell. The man was no 
Westmoreland! 
China Shakes the World, by Jack Belden (Monthly 
Review, 1970, 324 pp., $3.95) was originally written in the 
940's. It is a very interesting account by an American 
Journalist and merchant seaman who travelled around China 
during the last years before the communist take-over. It is a 
book about peasant suffering, bureaucratic madness, 
Starvation, corruption and the violence which often 
iccompanied the desperate attempts of peasants to sieze 
Ihave faith in the Chinese soldiers and the Chinese people: 
fundamentally great, democratic, misgoverned. No bars of 
taste or religion... Honest, tolerant, friendly, courteous. 
I judge the Kuomintang (Nationalists) and the (Communists) 
y what I saw: 
Kuomintang: Corruption, neglect, chaos, taxes, words and 
weeds: Hoarding, black market, trading with the enemy. 
ommunists:... reduce taxes, rents, interest. Raise 
broduction and standard of living. Participate in government. 
actice what they preach. 
—(General ‘’Vinegar Joe” 
Stilwell, 1944) 
Thunder Out of China, by Theodore White and Annalee 
Jacoby (William Sloane Associates, 1946, 330 pp., out of 
Print) was one-of those few books on China which held me 
Pellbound from beginning to end when | first read it. It is 
8 incredible book by two journalists who watched China 
luffer during the war. Their descriptions of the great Honan 
amine, the stink and slime of wartime Chungking, the 
Nimaginable incompetence and corruption of the wallowing 
jationalist Government, make the rapid and complete rise 
bf the communist alternative all the more understandable. 
4 
5 
+ 
oe 
A 
ih 
a ‘ors 
Se 
ob 
gt 
ae 
“¢ 
— 
Fe 
‘ai 
A 
i 
An experienced worker at the Shanghai Machine Tool Plant shows a young worker how to use equipment. Before going 
on to college or technical school, young people must spend at least two years learning from workers and peasants. 
COMMUNIST CHINA 
Things began to change extremely rapidly in China after the 
Communists took over in 1949. That was a big year. 
There has been an endless avalanche of general books on 
Communist China. Our President Richard Nixon’s ping 
pong diplomacy opened a flood gate of American visitors to 
China. Almost every one has written a book. Unfortunately 
there are too many of them and most are insipid. A few are 
worth mentioning. 
* Daily Life in Revolutionary China, by Maria Macciocchi, 
(Monthly Review, 1973, paper, 506 pp., $3.95) is a very 
chatty account of Chinese life during the Cultural 
revolution. Ms. Macciocchi is a Communist member of the 
Italian Chamber of Deputies and, while she may have her own 
biases, they are refreshingly unlike those of most Americans. 
(1 was going to say Unamerican!) Lots of conversations, 
interviews, description. 
* Daily Life in People’s China, by Arthur Galston and Jean 
S. Savage (Crowell, 1973, hardback, 255 pp., $6.95) is an 
account by an American scientist, his wife and daughter who 
lived and worked in China on a commune. Good introductory 
book. Talks about family life, wages, food, health care, 
communes, factories, social life. 
China is so vast, we have found that we can not do everything 
from the center. 
—(Kuo Mo-jo, President of the 
Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, 1971) 
* China: Inside the People’s Republic, by the Committee of 
Concerned Asian Scholars, (Bantam, 1972, paper, 431 pp., 
$1.50) was written collectively by a group of young China 
scholars who were among the first Americans to go to China. 
Many spoke Chinese. They took the tour: factories, 
communes, arts, cities, interview with Chou En-lai. 
Interesting. Readable. 
* The China Reader, Communist China, by F. Schurmann 
& O. Schell (Vol. Ill, Vintage, 647 pp., paper, $2.95), The 
China Reader, People’s China; The Cultural Revolution and 
After: 1966-72, by Milton Schurmann (Vintage, 523 pp., 
1974, paper, $3.45), both provide a broad and thorough 
sweep of China since the communist takeover through 
documents, articles, translations, book chapters, etc. 
(See ‘Background Books’’.) 
It’s all experimental. We’re trying to make universities more 
in touch with our country and its needs. We are trying to 
make them socialist— the door open to anyone, and doing 
work that will serve workers, peasants and soldiers. But 
what the future holds is unclear. When you’re on a new 
road you just don’t know what is around the corner. 
—(P’u Chih-lung, Professor 
of biology, 1971) 
AGRICULTURE 
Farming is the heart and soul of China. Agriculture not only 
feeds the people, but generates the capital for industry. How 
to farm, and who owns the land have been the two single 
most important issues throughout Chinese history. The 
question of land-use and ownership were matters of first 
Priority to the Communists. 
From the very beginning they 
espoused and experimented with various land reform 
programs, which sometimes led to uncontrolled violence as 
starving landless peasants turned on land lords, killed them 
and took back the land. At other times confiscation was 
more orderly. The passions on both sides were deep. The 
historical relation between the rich landlords and poor 
tenant peasants was a long and bitter one. It was not a system 
that changed quickly or easily. But it did change in a way 
unparalleled in history. And the restitution of the land to 
those who farmed it created a profound social change; 
Peasants no longer worked for someone else, but for 
themselves. 
The question of land reform has been one almost completely 
ignored in this country. And yet it seems elemental ina 
situation such as our Own as more and more family farms 
collapse, agroindustrial corporations flourish and food 
quality is sacrificed to profits and efficiency. The Chinese 
experience in land reform was cataclysmic. But the message 
was Clear; a nation’s relation to its land and the manner in 
which it grows its food both have a profound impact on its 
politics. 
* Land and Labor in China, by the English economic 
historian R.H. Tawney (Beacon, 1966, paper, 201 pp., 
$1.95) is a fine old book written by a man who knew how to 
write as well as play historian. Tawney describes the 
agricultural mess that China was in while he was there in the 
1930's. The chapter headings read like tombstone 
inscriptions, ‘Poverty, War and Famine”, ‘‘Land Tenure’’, 
“Drought and Flood’. This thin book will give you a good 
sense of pre-communist China; a nation where the land 
itself seemed on the brink of surrender. 
In Kansu (Province)... one third of the population has died 
since 1926, owing to famine, civil war, banditry and typhus. 
There are districts in which the position of the rural 
— 
population is that of a 
man standing permanently up to the 
ee in water, so that even a ripple is sufficient to drown 
im. 
—(R. H. Tawney, 1932) 
* Earthbound China: A Study of Rural Economy in Yunnan, 
by Fei’ Hsiao-tung and Chang Chih-| (Routledge & Kegan 
Paul, London, 1948, 313 pp., out of print) is one of those 
books that we can only hope will come back in print. The 
authors describe in meticulous detail a typical peasant 
village and its farming in the South Chinese Province of 
Yunnan. What they describe is the pre-communist land 
reform world of peasant agriculture which had changed little 
over the centuries. They talk about land holding, tenancy, 
marketing, cottage industry, planting techniques, crop 
choices, the farm calendar and village life. The book is, in 
essence, the story of how a simple agricultural community 
scratched a living from the ground. The perimeters, as always, 
were insufficient land, coupled with a land holding pattern 
where the rich landlords held the lion's share, leaving the 
tees ef 
the population to the tyranny of the landlord or 
eath. 
Land is the issue in Earthbound China. Plus change, plus 
c'est la meme chose. 
Photographs 
by 
Bob 
Kass, 
California 
Federation 
of 
Teachers 
Delegation 
KI
ONAN 
TYAOD
