| 
Behold Man 
Lennart Nilsson 
1973; 254pp. 
$25.00 Postpaid 
from: 
200 West St. 
or Whole Earth 
Spermatozoa with long tails 
swarm around the ovum’s surface. 
Magnified about 2000 times. 
Ovary ina 
three-year-old girl. 
Little, Brown & Co. 
Waltham, MA 02154 
HEALTH 
Feeling Alive After 65 
Very well done, sensible book in lay language with 
lists of brand named non-prescription drugs. Discusses 
aging, diets, sex, certain ailments—— both organic 
and mental—— and gives things the persons themselves 
may do. By a dedicated practicing physician with 
much experience with senior citizens both in and 
out of hospitals and nursing homes. 
—R.D. Chamberlain, M.D. 
Robert B. 
Tiedor, M.D. 
~ 
e 
Feeling 
or 
e 
Ps 
Feeling Alive After 65 
Alive fter 
Robert B. Taylor, M.D. 
~ 
£ 
1973; 232pp. 
$7.95 Postpaid 
from: 
Arlington House Publishers 
81 Centre Ave. 
New Rochelle, NY 10801 
dete Mestion! 
or Whole Earth 
tow“ 
el 
The ee seni Cie 
Guid | Tir framilic 
My diseases are an asthma and a dropsy, and what is less 
curable, seventy-five. 
Samuel Johnson 
(1709-1784) 
Anxiety is a frightful feeling of ancitipation, usually with no 
specific cause, causing drenching sweats, dry mouth, pounding 
heartbeat, frightened eyes, and tremors of the hands and lips. 
The anxious patient appears fearful, but cannot pinpoint the 
cause of his apprehension. 
In a sense, anxiety is an exaggeration of a normal reaction, 
caused by a release of adrenalin into the bloodstream, such 
as would occur in a dangerous situation. 
If you have ever had 
a near accident in an automobile and remember the tense 
and shaking feeling that immediately followed the experience, 
you know how the anxious patient feels at all times. The 
treatment of chronic anxiety involves scrupulous attention to 
good health measures, since anxiety will often occur in persons 
persons whose health is impaired for other reasons. 
Regularity is reassuring. The anxious person must live a well- 
organized life with three balanced meals daily, eight hours of 
sleep a night, and an adequate balance of work and 
relaxation. 
Many women, whose sexual enjoyment had been clouded by 
the fear of unplanned pregnancy, have reached their full 
sexual fulfillment in their 50’s, 60’s and 70’s. There is no 
reason why the mature woman cannot enjoy normal sexual 
relations until the late 70's. Regular sexual relations are 
important in maintaining the integrity of the vaginal tissues; 
a prolonged period of sexual abstinence, such as a year or 
two, will result in the formation of scar tissue around the 
walls of the vagina, and subsequent sexual relations may 
cause discomfort. 
Most men retain sexual potency into 
their 70’s. Sexual potency is a measure of the man’s 
confidence and self-esteem; the sexually active senior citizen 
will be the robust man who is vigorously engaged in 
hobbies, golf, and community activities. 
It is likely that the pain of the hangover headache is related 
10, or in part (or indirectly) caused by, cranial vasodilation—— 
Since, in our experience, vasocinstrictors (caffeine, for 
ihstance) help to counteract it. But it is also likely that there 
@re other factors as well. Among the possibilities: 
fatigue, 
dehydration (whether via increased urination or because of 
Sickness and vomiting) and concomitant blood-chemical 
imbalances, loss of sleep, smoke-filled rooms, anda multitude 
Gf psychological aftereffects—— perhaps including remorse. 
It would seem reasonable to Prevent the problem by avoiding 
cessive drinking and, if an evening does involve drinking, 
by avoiding other factors that may play a part: 
lack of food, 
fatigue, emotional stress, and so forth. Should the morning 
dawn upon the painful syndrome, however, fluids, nutritious 
fbods, caffeine (coffee or tea), aspirin, a cold shower, and—— 
Perhaps most of all—— understanding company may help. 
The proponents of marijuana-smoking, incidentally, claim 
8 an advantage the lack of such morning-after phenomena. 
That's generally true if the amount smoked is minimal. But 
fécent studies have shown that in large doses, marijuana is 
Mdeed capable of causing hangover. 
The Schizophrenias, Yours & Mine 
A pragmatic book which describes what is known 
about schizophrenia, how and where to get help, 
what kinds of therapies work and which don’t. 
/t 
is a primer intended for people who are concerned 
about the disease. Not exciting, graphic or gripping, 
but useful in its own right. (Also see Pg. 211) 
—James Fadiman 
[Suggested by 
Rosalind La Roche] 
The Schizophrenias 
(Yours and Mine) 
Prepared & published by 
the Professional Committee 
of the Schizophrenia 
Foundation of New Jersey 
1974; 158pp. 
$1 .25 postpaid 
from: 
Pyramid Publications 
9 Garden St. 
Moonachie, NJ 07074 
or Whole Earth 
Danger Signs of the Schizophrenias 
1. Stereotyped or repetitive behavior. 
2. Continued feelings of physical discomfort without cause. 
3. Unnatural fears or unnatural grandiosity. 
4. Failure to make friends and unnatural ability to 
alienate loved ones. 
5. Unfounded suspicions or threats. 
6. Profound insomnia, i.e., the ability of teenager to work or 
carouse all night. 
7. Profound daytime fatigue or stuporlike sleep (he may 
go to bed when he comes home from school). 
8. Continued angry excitement or temper tantrums in a 
teenager. 
9. Complaints that voices are too loud or all lights are too 
bright. 
10. Hailucinations 
(a) Hearing voices unnaturally. 
(b) Seeing visions unnaturally. 
(c) Smelling bad odors without cause. 
11. Talk of suicide. 
12. Announced sudden belief in the great truth 
phenomena, such as: 
(a) ‘‘God is Love.” 
(b) “‘Love is the only thing that matters.” 
(c) “My basic problems must be solved.” 
Note well: 
Single symptoms are not diagnostic; several of 
these’signs must be present. 
AS
OMAN 
YAO'D
