OE K 
nclosed is some information about air ionization and 
hegative airionizers. 
This is quite an important area, one 
pften ignored, and there is a rather impressive scientific 
j 
re developing in support of the biological importance 
of air ions, Most recently Dr. A.P. Krueger (UC Berkeley, 
ee enclosed article from New Scientist) found increased 
esis ance to influenza in laboratory animals “treated” with 
negative jons, compared with animals in ion-depleted 
invironments. This is highly significant as most urban, 
jr-polluted environments would be considered ion-depleted. 
tants strip the air of ions. Most of the studies on 
Ilution are concerned with what is added to the air 
toxic 
substances), not what is removed from the air 
logically active air ions). Negative ionizers offer a 
otic 
cal, technological way of producing an excess of 
egative ions (which seems to have very beneficial 
hy: ee! and psychological effects). 
—David S. Sobel 
7.60 
+ $11.25 as 
fri un - 
adios, wt M1DA, 
ingland 
nd 
doorbell chimes the first six notes (“They asked me 
how | knew...) of Smoke Gets In Your Eyes. 
Chocolate Graham hums the next five notes (’’...my 
true love was true’’). She is twenty-three years old. She 
stands exactly four feet tall. Her skin is brown. Her head— 
close natural hairdo— bounces like licorice cotton candy as 
she skips like a child to answer the door. 
AY periscope arrangement enables her to look through 
the peephole. A special doorknob installed two feet off the 
ground enables her to open the door. 
A deliveryperson hands her a box. 
: 
‘Oh, good. My new calling cards. I’d just about run out 
of them.” 
One 
of the cards is glued to the outside of the box. A 
rainbow reaches from one lower corner of the card to the 
other, Another rainbow, upside-down and interlocking with 
the first rainbow, reaches from one upper corner to the 
ther. Fancy embossed lettering reads: 
Below, 
in tiny type, there’s a telephone number. 
> =i deliveryperson asks, “What's this crap test anyhow?” 
“It's sort of a private joke.” 
“Well, | mean, whattaya do with the cards? Are you in 
‘some kinda business?” 
_ “No, it’s more like a hobby. | just give them to certain 
a people when they’re not looking.” 
“You could slip ‘em in their pocket, and they wouldn't 
aven know the difference.” 
b tlw “Call for! Philip Morris! 
| dunno if he was a 
Y 
For a midget, | can never tell the difference, not 
7 
Peace of Mind in Earthquake Country 
Fascinating. 
There’s no better book on earthquakes 
and no other book at all that tells you what to do 
about them: where to locate, evaluating sites & 
buildings, insurance, design, and where to run. 
—SB 
oH 
hea Vind 
jin earthquake Country 
Peace of Mind in 
Earthquake Country 
(How to Save Your Home 
and Life) 
Peter Yanev 
1974; 304pp. 
$4.95 Postpaid 
from: 
Chronicle Books 
870 Market St: 
San Francisco, CA 94102 
or Whole Earth 
PLYWOOD SHEATHING OR SIDING 
(CUT AWAY TO EXPOSE BRACKET) 
>» 
BOLTS TO 
FRAMING 
- 
SIZE 
AS REQUIRED 
STEEL BRACKET 
Existing wood-frame buildings lacking sufficient (or any) 
sill connections can be rather easily repaired with the 
aadition of 1/2-inch or larger steel expansion bolts wherever 
you have access to the sill. The ends of the sills are 
especially important and should be anchored even if you 
have to temporarily remove the wall covering or bracing 
in order to add the bolts. The hole that is drilled into the 
sill and foundation does not have to be precise in its 
length—— that is, it can be longer than the bolt—— but 
that | hafta tell the difference that often. Which are you, 
by the way? | mean | hope you don’t mind my asking.” 
“Oh, that’s okay. I’m not a dwarf or a midget. I’m a 
pygmy....” 
Flashiebackie: 
Young Chocolate Graystroke’s hair is twisted into many 
mini-pigtails, each tied with a bright red ribbon. She is 
sitting in the parlor of her parents’ mansion. They are an 
elderly Caucasian couple. 
Mother: “Chocolate. we’ve decided that the time has 
come to tell you that you were not actually born to us.” 
Father: “The truth of the matter is, we kidnapped you.” 
Mother: ‘’You must understand, your father was an 
orphan himself.” 
Father: “*Yes, my parents were killed in a plane crash in 
an African jungle. However, the body of my younger 
brother— you've seen baby pictures of Uncle Tarzan in the 
family album— was not found among the wreckage.” 
Mother: “So we eventually went on a personal 
pilgrimage and, to make a long story short, we took you.” 
Father: “‘I considered it a case of retroactive cultural 
exchange.” 
Mother: “But, Chocolate, we want you to know that 
we love you just as much as if you had been jegelty, 
adopted... 
It's Saturday evening at the old abandoned newsstand. 
“Do you desire,” Tongue Fu asks Captain Mediafreak, 
“to go see a movie?” 
“Nah, you better go alone. This is family night for me. 
I'll give you some cash, though. They don’t have 
intermissions at films.” 
“Where is your family?” 
“Right here.” With his one and only hand, Captain 
Mediafreak gestures toward his TV set. ‘‘The Bunkers at 
eight o’clock— Archie and Edith and Michael and Gloria 
and their neighbors— and then at eight-thirty there’s Mash, 
with Hawkeye, Trapper, Hot lips, Radar and all their gang.” 
“These names do not mean anything to me.” 
“Yeah, well, I'm closer to them than to my own flesh- 
and-blood family, I'll tell you that. And at nine o'clock, 
there’s Mary Tyler Moore, and Rhoda and Lou Grant and 
Ted Baxter. I'd really miss them if | went a whole Saturday 
night without seeing any of ‘em.” 
“But is it not odd that your pleasure should come 
from watching other people live their lives for you?” 
the diameter of the hole should provide a snug fit for 
the bolt. After drilling the hole, caulk the inside edge 
thoroughly, then insert the bolt, add a washer and the 
nut, and turn the latter until it is as tight as possible against 
the washer, 
Lightning Protection 
Very thorough book on lightning, the damage it 
does, precautions that can be taken. Expensive book, 
so ask for it at your library. 
—LK 
ightning Protection 
LICHTNING 
rie 
Ni or 
1973; 190pp. 
$14.95 postpaid 
from: 
605 Third Ave. 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
1 MARSHALL 
Protection of tent in isolated area with overhead wire and 
four ground rods (one ground rod is at the rear). 
“Listen, it’s not even other people. It’s actors 
pretending 
to be other people. But, like, at nine-thirty 
there’s Bob Newhart and those other characters on his 
show— they’re more fun than most of the real people | 
know. And then at ten, it’s Carol Burnett, with Harvey 
Korman and Vicki Lawrence and Lyle Waggoner and Tim 
Conway— | consider them family— they’re delightful 
compared to my actual relatives. And | don’t even have to 
do anything. But I'd rather spend an hour watching them 
do skits and songs than sit around with my relatives 
discussing Carol Burnett’s 
skits and songs, right?” 
And so Tongue Fu goes 
to see Deep Throat by 
himself. 
On the screen, a gigantic 
close-up of Linda Lovelace 
is sucking away at an 
unidentified throbbing 
penis. For Tongue Fu, the 
fantasy of probing the 
recesses of her throat and 
sensuously rubbing her 
displaced clitoris to climax 
with his own unique 
tongue, results in such a 
holy hard-on that he 
becomes convinced he has 
finally met his soulmate: 
: 
To inquire about her, he approaches tne office of the 
theater manager, Buff Mogul, just as the police swoop in to 
arrest him tor displaying an obscene film. Tongue Fu gets 
arrested along with him, as a material witness, because his 
erection won't detumesce. It remains aloft all the way to 
the precinct house. 
An officer tells them, ““You’re each allowed to make 
one phone call.” 
Buff Mogul scratches one of his fresh sideburns while 
he talks to his attorney. Then he tells Tongue Fu, “Don’t 
worry, my lawyer’ll get us both out of here tonight.” 
“But | am allowed to make one phone call also.” 
Buff Mogul takes a card from the pocket of his mod 
jacket and passes it to Tongue Fu. 
“Here,” he says. ‘I have no idea where this came from. 
Why don’t you try phoning and see what happens.” 
Tongue Fu looks at Chocolate Graham’s calling card. 
Then he dials her number with the tip of his tongue. 
[Continued, page 523/ 
John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Pub. 
SILI
