he Death and Life of Great American Cities 
The Last Landscape 
These are the two best books on land use planning | know 
about. Both writers became involved with the subject because 
of concern for particular places. Jane Jacobs was concerned 
to keep her neighborhood from being bulldozed away by the 
rban renewers. She learned enough about the subject to 
write this book, a classic, old but fortunately not out-of- 
date. Her books challenge the assumptions of most city 
planners. She understands that a city is a human ecology, 
and that city planning is a problem in self-government. She 
as written a later book, The Economy of Cities, which is 
interesting but not as good as The Death and Life of Great 
American Cities. William H. Whyte does for suburbia and the 
ountryside what Jane Jacobs does for the city. He was 
oncerned about the desecration by developers of his native 
place, Chester County, Pennsylvania. Previously he had been 
a business writer and wrote The Organization Man. Now he 
js concerned with men in the landscape even more than men 
jn organizations. 
Both he and Jane Jacobs provide tools for 
nderstanding land use on the level of the local planning 
ommission where, like it or not, most land use decisions are 
being made. 
—Philip Ebersole 
To generate exuberant diversity in a city’s streets and districts, 
_ four conditions are indispensable: 
+1. The district and indeed as many of its internal parts 
as possible must serve more than one primary function; 
preferably more than two. These must insure the presence of 
people who go outdoors on different schedules and are 
in the place for different purposes, but who are able to use 
any facitities in common. 
2. Most blocks must be short; that is, streets and opportunities 
to turn corners must be frequent. 
3. The district must mingle buildings that vary in age and 
ondition, including a good proportion of old ones so that they 
vary in the economic yield they must produce. This mingling 
must be fairly close-grained. 
4. There must be a sufficiently dense concentration of people 
_ for whatever purposes may be there. This includes dense 
concentration in the case of people who are there because 
\) 
Jof residence. 
| 
e 
| know how you feel,” he said, “I often go down there myself 
“just to walk around the streets and feel that wonderful, cheer- 
“ful street life. Say, what you ought to do, you ought to come 
back and go down in the summer if you think it’s fun now. 
You'd be crazy about it in summer. But of course we have to 
illiamsville, New York 
The Rocking Chair Deserters 
‘The canvases all sparkle with the same vitality that you hear 
n the voices of long-time residents when they talk about the 
early days.”’ 
Prairie Island, Minnesota 
The Pipestone Carvers 
) The great craftsmen of the ages have always taken time to 
pass along their special knowledge.” 
adesboro, North Carolina 
sleta, Texas 
Singing the Ancient Songs 
‘Indians are coming toward an inter-tribal brotherhood, and 
@n Indian from one tribe may learn another tribe’s dialect 
$0 he can sing their songs.” 
hitesburg, Kentucky 
The Appalachian Film Workshop 
The Pioneer America Society 
Above the door hung the sign of the trade: a wooden 
Teplica of a muzzle-loader about eight feet long.”’ 
‘Vhe Death and Life of 
Great American Cities 
Jane Jacobs 
1961; 448pp. 
$1 95 postpaid 
from: 
Vintage Books, Inc. 
Random House, Inc. 
457 Hahn Rd. 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
The Last. Landscape 
William H. Whyte 
1968; 402pp. 
$2.50 Postpaid 
from: 
Anchor Books 
Doubleday & Co., Inc. 
501 Franklin Ave. 
Garden City, L.1., NY 
11530- 
or Whole Earth 
TheLast Landscape 
rebuild it eventually. We've got to get these people off the 
streets.” 
e 
There is a quality even meaner than outright ugliness or 
disorder, and this meaner quality is the dishonest mask of 
pretended order, achieved by ignoring or supressing the real 
order that is struggling to exist and to be served. 
How big, in functional terms, must an effective district be? 
| 
have given a functional definition of size: 
big enough to fight 
city hall, but not so big that street neighborhoods are unable 
to draw district attention and to count. 
e 
Towns and suburbs, for instance, are the natural homes for 
huge supermarkets and for little else in the way of groceries, 
for standard movie houses and for little else in the way of 
theater. There are simply not enough people to support 
mill? You have to run it!” 
Weare, New Hampshire 
Huntington Beach, California 
Every town should have at least one great old building to 
show off to visitors, and there certainly ought to be at least 
one amazing story that goes along with it. 
The Self Help History Test 
Rate yourself. Score two points for every correct answer. One 
point for each answer partially correct. No fair cheating. 
Answers must come from memory. Above 38 points, excellent 
Between 24 and 37 points, passable. Below 23 points, dismal, 
better get to work. 
. Where was your father born? (Town and state) 
. When was he born? (date and year) 
Where was your mother born? (Town and state) 
. When was she born? (Date and year) 
. 
(Where and when was your father’s father born? (State 
and year) 
. Where and when was your father’s mother born? (State and 
Oo 
aghwWno= 
Tivoli, New York 
Every Little Detail Has To Be Right 
“Tt is only by absolute refusal to accept the lures of the 
modern world that I have succeeded in re-capturing some 
of the serenity which the past has to offer.”” 
Arlington, Massachusetts 
The Last Picture Frame — Almost 
“My God, you know what you have to do when you save a 
Hoosick Falls, New York 
Telling It Like It Was 
“The only reason why the ‘Boston Tea Party’ is better known 
than the Pine Tree Riot is because they had better press agents.” 
Knox County, Kentucky 
Fight Like Hell for the Living 
“Hit’s a sin to burn sass‘frass wood. If’n you do, the devil 
will sit on the roof 
0’ yer house.”’ 
URBAN LIVING 
085 
further variety, although there may be people (too few of 
them) who would draw upon it were it there. Cities, 
however, are the natural homes of supermarkets and standard 
movie houses plus delicatessens, Viennese bakeries, foreign 
groceries, art movies and so on, all of which can be found 
co-existing, the standard with the strange, the large with the 
small. Wherever lively and popular parts of cities are found, 
the small much outnumber the large. Like the small manu- 
facturers, these small enterprises would not exist somewhere 
else, in the absence of cities. Without cities, they would 
not exist. 
We don’t have to wait for the grand design. 
It is there 
already. The structure of our metropolitan areas has 
long since been set by nature and man, by the rivers and 
hills, and the railroads and highways. Many options remain, 
and the great task of planning is not to come up with 
another structure, but to work with the strengths of the 
structure we have—— and to discern this structure as people 
experience it in their daily life. 
What makes driving along back roads such a delight? 
It is 
more than the scenery; it is the tightness of scale. You go 
around abrupt curves, up sudden crests, under a canopy of 
overhanging foilage. Sometimes the view opens up to distant 
hills; sometimes it narrows down almost to a tunnel as you 
pass through woods. But always the edge of the landscape 
is close by—— stone fences, a line of maples, 
a barn—— so 
close by that we tarry where else we would speed. 
This tightness of scale is what gets improved away. Curves are 
straightened, crests flattened, the trees and stone fences 
moved out of harm‘s way. The edge of the landscape gets 
moved back. 
In the late 30s, the landscape architect of the Texas Highway 
Department deliberately designed ‘visual bottlenecks’’ by 
periodically bringing the planting very close to the roadway. 
At such points the driver would instinctively ease up on 
the accelerator. 
Where the water flows, the benefits of open space are the 
clearest. 
It will still be a tough job in the face of competing 
pressures, but along the drainage network we can invoke 
the maximum overlay of benefits, for the land is most 
necessary for flood control and the conservation of water 
resources tends to be the land that is most suitable for 
recreation and that is the most beautiful. 
7. Where and when was your mother’s father born? (State 
and year) 
8. Where and when was your mother’s mother born? (State 
and year) 
9. What was the chief occupation of your father’s father? 
Your father’s mother? 
10. What was the chief occupation of your mother's father? 
Your mother’s mother? 
11. What is the origin of your family name? Has it been 
changed? 
12. What is the country of your father’s family’s origin? 
13. What is the country of your mother’s family’s origin? 
14. When did your family first come to this country? 
15. Where did they land? (Port of entry) 
16. Where did they settle? (Town and state) 
17. Are there still relatives in that place? 
: 
18. Did your family migrate after arriving in this country? 
19. How many states were home before the present one? 
20. When was the town or city nearest you founded? 
21. Who founded it and for what reason? 
. Were Indians living there? What nation or tribe? 
AJSL
