est medical system in the world, thoroughly spelled 
mut. Based on lengthy visits in 1971-72, here are 
__ reports of the barefoot rural doctors, the hospital 
referral system, mental health, acupuncture, 
government organization. American doctors and 
_ 
medical schools, the A.M.A., state legislatures, and 
any who would become paramedics have much to 
learn from the Chinese experience. 
—SB 
a 
we 
Bc 
Serve the People 
Peri 
1’: 
(Observations on medicine 
SERVE THE PEOPLE| 
in the People’s Republic 
of China) 
Victor W. Sidel & 
Ruth Sidel 
1973; 317pp. 
$10.00 Postpaid 
from: 
David White Co. 
60 East 55th St. 
New York, NY 10022 
or Whole Earth 
The Chinese characters usually translated as “‘self-reliance”’ 
are tzu-li keng-sheng—— more accurately translated as 
“regeneration through one’s own efforts.”’ Health services, 
and indeed all human services, are provided at the most 
local level at which they can possibly be given. What we 
in the West might call social or welfare services—— the 
care for a disabled older person or for the children of an 
ill mother—— are provided at the family or group level. 
Primary medical care is given at the residents’ committee 
or lane level by Red Medical Workers. Each person, 
each family, each courtyard, each village is expected to do 
as much as it can for itself—— and to be transformed and 
strengthened by the process. 
: 
The decentralized health services function as well as they do, 
in our view, because they are part of a highly organized 
The American Journal of Chinese Medicine 
This quarterly is a professional journal directed at M.D.’s and 
others interested in acupuncture (both practice and research), 
Chinese herbology, 
cupping, and massage. 
It also publishes 
articles on the his: 
of Chinese medicine and present-day 
achievements of Red Chinese medicine. 
It includes articles 
from any country where interesting activities along these 
lines are occurring. 
é. 
It also reports abstracts of papers presented to World 
Symposia on Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine. 
The 
first two of these symposia were held in San Francisco, 
and this reviewer attended the first one. 
It was an excellent 
‘instructional effort covering several days and embodying 
papers from this country and Europe, training sessions, 
practical demonstrations, and panel discussions. 
The Journal also produces educational films, and makes 
available up-to-date charts and other educational materials. 
—R.D. Chamberlain, M.D. 
The American Journal 
of Chinese Medicine 
F. Kao, M.D., Ph.D., Ed. 
$25 /yr., quarterly 
$15 /yr., students 
(with proof) 
$7.50 /single copy 
trom: 
American Journal of 
Chinese Medicine, Inc. 
Box 555 
_ Garden City, NY 11530 
Illustrations of how the needle should be held in performing 
veterinary acupuncture. 
A young peasant woman who lost both feet in an accident 
can now walk with one transplanted foot of her own plus 
an artificial leg, thanks to a successful operation by surgeons 
of two Peking hospitals. The right foot, severed from the 
smashed right lower leg, was transplanted to her left leg 
below the ankle. After nine months of treatment, the 
patient can now walk up and down the stairs and stroll in 
the park. 
; 
° 
Health station, Sing Sing Production Brigade. Kao 
Ning-shin, brigade midwife, is seen on the right. 
Pattern that provides specific lines of authority and 
responsibility, and clear pathways of referral of patients to 
sources of secondary care and then back to sites of 
primary care. There appears to be a reasonable amount of 
supervision of the work of locally based facilities; and 
opportunity for local workers to receive advice and 
continuing education from more specialized personnel. Con- 
versely, there are clear channels through which higher levels 
of erence receive reports and criticism from local 
levels. 
: 
In contrast to the pharmaceutical industry in a country such 
as the United States, with its high costs based on large 
research and advertising budgets and/or on high profits for 
the manufacturer, medicines in China are falling rapidly in 
Price and are for the most part extremely inexpensive; in 
contrast to the industry of a country such as the Soviet 
Union, with its inefficiencies of production and distribution 
and periodic shortages, the industry in China appears to be 
extremely well-organized and productive; in contrast to 
other technology-poor countries that are dependent on 
wealthy countries for their supplies, the Chinese appear to 
be self-sufficient in most important items. 
Homeopathy 
Medical aikido. Instead of fighting the disease as in 
standard Western “allopathic” treatment, homeopathy 
increases the ailment symptoms, goes with them, 
~ 
presumably aiding the body to build its own defense. 
This is the only book, a general intro at that, on the 
subject. Who can tell us more on how to find and 
do homeopathic treatment and how well it works? 
—SB 
[Suggested by Sam Shambhala] 
Homeopathy 
(Medicine of the New Man) 
George Vithoulkas 
1971; 117pp. 
$1.25 postpaid 
from: 
Avon Books 
250 West 55th St. 
Order Dept, 8th Fir. 
New York, NY 10019 
or Whole Earth 
A remedy cures a disease only because it produces similar 
symptoms in a healthy organism! The whole of homeo- 
pathy derives from this law; in it resides the revolutionary 
breakthrough to a wholly new dimension in the understanding 
of medicine. 
Homoeopathic Pharmacies 
(where books listed 
in Bibliography 
may be obtained) 
Ehrhart and Karl Inc. 
17 N. Wabash Ave. 
Chicago, IL 
Humphrey’s Medicine 
Co., Inc. 
: 
63 Meadow Rd. 
Rutherford, NJ 
Luyties Pharmacal Co. 
4200 Laclede Ave. 
St. Louis, MO 
Homoeopathic Societies 
American Board of 
Homoeotherapeutics 
Secretary, 
William Boyson, M.D. 
309 S. Market St. 
Mechanicsburg, PA 17055 
President, 
Henry W. Eisfelder, M.D. 
P.O. Box 1146 
Vero Beach, FL 32960 
7 
<i 
‘ 
™ 
~~ 
D 
aed wr Se. 
Se ce, 
Fue 
2 
oy 
Acupuncture: Cure of Many Diseases 
“Written for the layman,” this book is an excellent general 
description of acupuncture and the uses thereof for both 
layman and practitioner. 
It is not a book from which eith 
may learn how to practice acupuncture. 
Dr. Felix Mann, a practitioner of medicine in London, is 
probably the most outstanding writer in English on the 
subject of acupuncture. 
He has practiced this modality in 
conjunction with his Western practice of medicine for 15-2 
years. He studied under European Continental specialists 
this art; and researched the Chinese work deeply—— study 
the Chinese language in order to facilitate this. His books 
include not only this one for the layman, but four others 
primarily intended for the practitioner. 
— 
There are certain legal complications about the practice of 
acupuncture. 
This varies from state to state and is a matte! 
of public law. In California, for example, a licensed M.D. 
may practice acupuncture in any setting. A layman 
acupuncturist may practice only under M.D. supervision in 
conjunction with a medical school acupuncture research 
project. A layman practicing acupuncture otherwise, whet 
it be for a fee or not, may be considered as practicing 
medicine without a license and be indicted accordingly. 
—R.D. Chamberlain, M.D. 
Acupuncture: Cure 
of Many Diseases 
Dr. Felix Mann 
1971; 121pp. 
$2.25 postpaid 
from: 
Tao Books & Publications, 
Inc. 
33 Farnsworth St. 
Boston, MA 02210 
or Whole Earth 
Acupuncture and psychology 
The blank space in the box represents Qi: it cannot be wa 
or measured, for according to the ancient Chinese it is non 
material. Its effect, though, can be seen in the growth of « 
plant, the power of thought, the energy that activates any 
process. Much of this (though by no means all) can be 
explained in a different way via the materialistic laws of 
science. Insofar as it applies to acupuncture the flow of 0) 
along meridians, would in modern medicine be described « 
an electrical impulse (depolarisation) travelling along a ner\ 
Case history. -\ once saw a patient who was unable to stop 
talking (words-fire). The pulse diagnosis revealed an over- 
activity of the pulse of the heart (fire) and | therefore 
stimulated acupuncture point heart 7. Within a few minut 
the needle being in place the constant chatter stopped and 
the patient spoke normally for about a day when the ince 
flow of words started again. A repetition of similar treat 
brought about a cure. 
Acupuncture: A Selected Bibliography 
This bibliographic series is designed to serve as a useful too 
for those wishing a general introduction to the English 
language literature concerning acupuncture and for researc 
_ engaged in the evaluation of this ancient medical art. It 
includes citations concerning the history of acupuncture, 
traditional and contemporary theories, current research 
studies and texts describing practical applications of this 
intriguing technique. .. Most of the citations have been 
annotated so that the readers can efficiently select articles 
in accord with their primary interests. 
Volume 2 will 
contain references to books and articles published during 
1973 and will be available from the Association early in 
1974. 
—John White 
Acupuncture: A 
from: 
Selected Bibliography, 
National Acupuncture Assr 
‘Vol. 1: 1800-1972 
Beet Cates} 
7 
Suite 200 
David E. Bressler & 
Patricia Wisne 
Los Angeles, CA 90024 
1973; 129pp. 
$10.00 /individuals 
$1 5.00 /institutions 
$7.50 /NAA members & 
students 
