This book neither makes hawking seem too easy, nor 
shrouds it in a medieval mystique. 
It is remarkably thorough 
and has an excellent Bibliography of other hawking books. 
\t is also pretty good on basic “furniture.” 
2. Desert Hawking by Harry McElroy, 1974; 113pp. $10.50 
postpaid, from Harry McElroy, Box 896, Tuba City, AZ 
86045 or Whole Earth, 
This is very modern, a bit crazy, and very, very useful. 
Everyone | know who flies the “‘shortwings’’ has learned 
something from it. It is somewhat regional but don’t be 
misled—— | know someone in Maine, who swears by it. 
Not exactly basic, though. And completely un-traditional. 
3. A Hawk for the Bush—— Jack Mavrogordato, 206pp., 
$12.50 postpaid from, Clarkson N. Potter, Inc., 419 Park 
Ave. South, New York, 10016. Or Whole Earth. The 
modern classic. This is beautifully written, dense with 
information, philosophical, and opinionated. 
It contains 
the last plates by the great British hawk painter Lodge. 
This is not exactly a beginners book but it is so painstaking 
a beginner can profit. 
With these, plus White, a start can be made. But no one 
should ever try to learn hawking from books only. He will 
only kill hawks that way. Bust your ass if necessary, but 
find a working falconer and listen. Remember falconry has 
a 4000 year tradition, mostly based on good practical 
knowledge. 
It you are tempted to experiment, nine times 
Out of ten you'll end up going back to the original way. 
You have to be very good before you can depart from 
the traditional (like McElroy) and still get results. 
Hawks must hunt. Keeping a confined pet hawk is not 
falconry, or natural. 
Go lightly. Remember; better a lost (free) hawk than a 
dead one. 
Learn raptore conservation, and predator-prey ecology. 
A good paperback—— John and Frank Craighead’s 
Hawks Owls and Wildlife , $3.75, Dover Pub., Inc., 
180 Varick St., New York, NY 10014. Or Whole Earth. 
All falconers must be conservationists today. 
I'll be glad to answer any questions, and hope this is of 
ope falconry makes it to the epilog. 
It’s older than 
PROSPECTING 
by Mack Taylor 
The old prospector has become nearly extinct in the last 
couple of decades—— replaced by teams of well-equipped 
geologists with corporate backing. These people are finding 
ore deposits at as high a rate as ever, but nearly all the 
discoveries could have been made as easily by a dedicated 
amateur. How? The prime ingredients are: 
1. A strong 
desire to find an ore body, 2. An equally strong attraction 
to living and working out-doors, and 3. The willingness to 
do a careful, thorough job both in the library and in the 
field. Professional training and equipment are helpful but 
no substitute for native drive and liking for the work. The 
rewards can be quite handsome. 
Nearly all countries have geological surveys or ministries 
of mines that put out useful publications on the mineral 
resources and geology of their region. Most also have 
professional staffs that are interested in helping any amateur 
that comes along. In the U.S., the people to see are the 
state geological surveys (or bureaus of mines) which are 
usually in the state capitol or major city. Prospectors 
being uncommon these days, they'll probably give you a 
big welcome. They all have collections of minerals and 
rocks which you can study and learn to identify. The 
U.S. Geological Survey also has 3 regional offices with 
knowledgeable geologists at hand and a complete library 
of their publications (Denver, Colorado; Menlo Park, 
California; Reston, Virginia). 
As a starter, here are two first-class guides to hang out 
with: 
from: 
Summer Gold 
North Star Press 
John N. Dwyer 
P.O. Box 451 
1971; 72pp. 
$1.95 postpaid 
Definitely gives you a feel for the work and the life. An 
interest-whetting account of the art of prospecting, including 
where to go, the tools, and sources of information. 
St. Cloud, MI 56301 
or Whole Earth 
Handbook for 
Prospectors 
Richard M. Pearl 
1954, 1973; 472pp. 
$1 4.50 postpaid 
from: 
McGraw-Hill Bk. Co. 
Princeton Rd. 
Hightstown, NJ 08520 
Manchester Rd. 
Manchester, MO 63011 
8171 Redwood Hwy 
Novato, CA 94947 
or Whole Earth 
A well-written, comprehensive manual covering every aspect 
of the subject. 
This is an adaptation of von Bernewitz’ 
classical treatise, brought up to date by a man thoroughly 
steeped in the field. Prof. Pearl has authored a long list of 
probably the most popular books on mineral collecting, 
Treasure Hunter’s Manual 
Generally accepted among initiates in the treasure 
hunting fraternity as the definitive work on the 
subject. Half of the book is jaw, half good hard 
core info. 
—AP 
Treasure Hunter’s Manual 
Karl von Mueller 
1972, rev. 7th ed; 293pp. 
$6.50 Postpaid 
from: 
Ram. Publishing Co. 
P.O. 38464 
Dallas, TX 75238 
or Whole Earth 
Most instrument work is a slow, tiresome process. You can’t 
take a metal detector into an area and swish it around a 
couple times and really expect to find anything. Yet, this is 
what a lot of fellows do. Nine out of ten men are too 
impatient or allow too little time for the job to be done 
right. You should allow an hour to scan an area three feet 
wide and 100 feet long. On the basis of this requirement, 
A very simple set of prospecting tools: Pack, electronic 
metal finder, gold pan, safety hat, pick, compass, chisels 
or gads, prospect hammer, magnifying glass, horseshoe 
magnet, D-handle shovel, pry bars. All of these tools are 
easily packed and carried by one man. 
prospecting, and amateur geology. 
This seems to be his 
magnum opus. 
eo 
?*°FFRA 
RASS 
A thick vein may be split where it enters a weaker rock, as at 
Freiberg, Germany. 
- if you are to work a farm yard, for example, that is 300 
feet wide and 300 feet long, it will take you 200 hours. 
This is three weeks of everyday work starting at 8:00 in 
the morning and quitting at 5:00 at night, saturdays and 
sundays included. The average city block covers this area, 
so you can see that it takes some ‘doings’ to cover a large 
area properly. 
Part of a bootlegger’s cache found ina 
cellar where it had 
been hidden over 30 years ago. Some of the gold coins 
were as clean and perfect as the day they were minted. All 
of this must have come from selling a bottle or two at a 
time. Some of the silver coins were bright but most of them 
were tarnished due to the sulphur in the rubber container. 
SUIC
WON
_
i
i
