COMMUNITY 
078 
Hey Beatnik! 
The Tennessee sequel to Monday Night Class (Pg. 407). 
This is a completely ingratiating book and where else 
can you find between two covers details on delivering 
a baby (even twins), building an outhouse, getting along 
with the neighbors and getting along with yourself? 
The pictures are great—— full of happy, healthy people 
and their kids living midst plenty and peace in 
Tennessee. 
They admit cheerfully to mistakes (one 
year they spent over two months harvesting an 
enormous sorghum crop, the next year they 
whittled their operations for quality rather than 
quantity), but they’ve also learned a lot and emphasize 
the respect they have for all who’ve taught them: 
their neighbors, the water department, the sheriff, 
etc. A really handy book if you're thinking of 
communal farming. 
COMMUNITIES 
—Heidi Seney 
[Suggested by Matthew McClure] 
Hey Beatnik! 
from: 
(This is the Farm Book) 
The Book Publishing Co. 
Stephen and the Farm 
The Farm, 
1974; 104pp. 
Summertown, TN 38483 
$1.95 postpaid 
or Whole Earth 
Before we got down to Lewis County we thought we was the 
space-agest modernest thing there was. And when we got 
there, there were the Mennonites and the Amish all 
the way from Lancaster County to Tennessee, who got 
there first and broke ground for us—— for long hair and 
spiritual groups and things like that. So there’s a lot of 
stuff people accepted about us from the beginning. Once 
they learned that we really weren't scary and we really 
weren't violent and we really were truthful, they started 
thinking we were Technicolor Amish. 
e 
HEY LADIES! 
Don’t have an abortion, come to the Farm 
and we'll deliver your baby and take care of it, and if you 
ever decide you want it back, you can have it. 
e 
Journal of the New Harbinger 
Cooperatives are one very viable tool for dealing with our 
current economy, or lack of same. 
The Journal is jammed 
with solid reports and research on food co-ops, consumer 
ownership, credit unions, and many other resource- 
pooling alternatives. 
Each issue is focused on one area, 
send for their back-list. 
This is the most spoiled generation in the history of the 
planet. That's because of that entire psychological trip of 
the last twenty or thirty years that says, ‘‘Oh, poor baby, 
you're so determined, you can’t help it.” And he says, “Yeah, 
yeah, spoil me some more!” This whole society is in a 
condition of overcorrection, like a car that’s fishtailing on 
ice. Our grandparents were strict with our parents, and 
our parents were loose with us, and we’re the sloppy beat- 
niks. And we got to raise our kids halfway in between 
where our grandparents raised our parents and where we 
were raised. What it looks like to me is that Freudian 
psychology and Doctor Spock and greed and B.F. Skinner 
and a few details like that taught this country that morality 
didn’t count and that all that counted is what you got caught 
for, and that there was no abstract absolute morality, so it 
didn’t matter what you did—— you could just do anything. 
And you could freak out as much as you wanted to, and 
it didn’t matter. 
But it does matter. 
It can get you crazy. 
One of the things we notice when we're traveling around 
the country is that American folks keep their kids like 
adolescents where in another society they’d be grownups. 
There's people their age in other cultures who are making 
it on their own and supporting other folks too, whereas 
adolescence in this country continues on to about thirty. 
Contrary to the opinions of many other beatniks and health 
food stores, we eat white sugar. 
If eaten wisely, sugar is a 
clean-burning fuel that causes no harm. There's an 
emotional rumor out that says sugar ‘‘destroys” B vitamins. 
Thiamin (a B vitamin) acts as a catalyst in the metabolism 
of carbohydrates (sugar and starch). That's its gig. If you 
eat wheat germ, brown rice, nutritional yeast, and 
enriched or whole wheat flours, you'll have plenty of 
thiamin to metabolize your sugar. 
I'd wake up with just the edge of a cold coming on, and 
feeling a little rocky, and take the care and the time to 
make love properly, and feel really grateful to have a lady 
who works with me in that way and who really heals me. 
You can be into a cold enough to have it start making your 
soft palate swell and stuff like that, and just know it and 
stop it by raising your energy level that way. 
Journal of the 
New Harbinger 
(A Journal of the 
Cooperative 
Movement) 
$6 /yr bi-monthly 
from: 
Co-op Periodicals 
Box 1301 
Living in the Ozarks Newsletter 
Spalled off from the now-deceased Ozark Access 
Catalog, this is a nice occasional compendium of 
tips for living in a little-known region just west of 
the Mississippi. 
ee 
—SB 
Living in the Ozarks 
, 
rom: 
add goer Ed 
Upper Friley Organization 
Pa 
School 
$5.00 /yr 
Pettigrew, AR 72752 
D.R.M. Friedrichs, Ed. 
Ann Arbor, MI 48106 
Community Publications Cooperative 
The Twin Oaks Community seems one of the solidest, mo’ 
working communities in the country. Some of their 
services: 
Communities ($6/yr bimonthly) magazine; each issue dev 
to a different theme: social change, schools & communit 
directory of communes. 
Very professional, good reading. 
!t is the result of the joining of forces of Alternatives 
(formerly The Modern Utopian), Communitarian, Comm 
and Community Market. 
Openings (50¢) lists communes which are inviting new 
members, each self-described, pictures of some. 
Leaves of Twin Oaks ($3 for six issues) is their informal 
exchange of ideas and experiences with other communitie\ 
Twin Oaks Property Code, By Laws and Working Govern 
(50¢ ) 
just goes to show that good will is rarely enough. A 
excellent model, they seem to have thought of everything. 
All from: 
Twin Oaks 
Community 
Box 426 
Louisa, VA 230 
Planner decision regarding members owning property 
January 28, 1972 
Individuals with savings or property have two choices: 
1. They can donate 10% of their property to the 
Community after two years of membership and 
10% every year thereafter until after 11 years of 
membership when a member will no longer own 
Property. 
2. \f a member does not want to start donating mone 
to the Community at the end of two years 
membership, that member may wait and donate 
all of co’s property to the Community at the end 
of seven years of membership. 
Too many people are eager to get into community witho 
really knowing the difficulties that are there, and this lea 
to unrealistic expectation and premature disappointments 
Our first big problem in this community was ego conflict 
between the men. Two of these men eventually left. The 
wife of one said to us: ‘He still wants to be in a commu 
but he wants to run it!’ Community is no place for som 
who wants to run it, unless it’s a religious group like the 
Brotherhood of the Spirit or the Farm. People can run th 
individual areas: the kitchen, the garden—— but not the 
whole show. 
Our next big problem was sexual jealousy, which for a w 
dwarfed all other problems. This problem is far from so! 
but except for occasional big freakouts, it seems less that 
before. Maybe we are just getting used to it. This is espe 
hard for couples who have been together for some time 
joining the community (most of us had been married 6 t 
years). Just being in community forced a drastic rearrans 
of that relationship. Old patterns and dependencies are b 
up: the husband is no longer necessarily the breadwinner 
wife the homemaker; there are other close companions; 
couple has to make fewer common decisions; child reari 
no longer solely the parents’ responsibility. 
Looking for Land tip No. 2 
There’s plenty of poor land in the Ozarks. Wild land is 
rocky and scarey to new comers. 
But old farms are ofte’ 
just as bad or worse. You can usually identify an old pl 
out field by finding winged elm and eastern red cedar oF 
Sure, it looks pretty and all, but it is a hard job to re-bui 
what soil is left. The same goes for some piney areas. P 
can grow on most any soil. Big white oak and hickory a 
indicators of good soil in wooded areas. Think twice ab! 
old fields. 
