/ to raise them in an effort to save people need- 
frustration. 
si 
though solar, wind and methane energy are 
the hardware that captures and stores the energy is. 
r 
devices arg easily made by a reasonably competent 
/, 
but if they are not well thought out and carefully 
come yet another “leaky dome” and may dis- 
eople of good heart by repeated failure. Wind 
ty becomes quite complex if you want more than a 
Homebuilt machines are notorious for failure, and 
ercial ones have their problems. And there 
a remarkable lack of workable methane equipment. 
gy, Environment and Building 
mpendium is what a compendium can and 
of the art are described and illustrated. Areas 
ed include energy conservation, solar space 
ater heating, wind and water power, composting 
d 
methane, water conservation, and “autonomous 
using’. Mr. Steadman has made the attempt to 
Jude 
all known projects and proposals, and the 
is a massive, mind-boggling book that stands in 
s by itself. It’s the book of those who are doing 
ind 
making it work. Mr. Steadman is also one of 
| few presenting information on conserving energy. 
e book 
is not yet in print, and obviously the higher 
demand, the less it can cost. If it interests you, 
{ we hope it does, send your inquiry and encourage- 
nt to Mr. Steadman. 
4 
7» apo 
Brow 
hones incorporated 
tela haoting and cacling, «ith 
“ 
water heat tronlar and storage madivon, ened the wae of 
‘dmcrtoed below 
baat pomp. The vecond hens le 
ee 
: 
2 
Two stereys, seable 
arms 2,440 1/7 
ergy, Environment 
pone vis 
fe i a 
(Rea 
rl are 
as 
UEP 
Ee pa 
Srp net Nera 
Collecter  storoge | moter 
2 38-00"F 
‘Seroge 
fe 
wpace | 
wor (in 
cniling pana) 
3 
Heating 
degen de 2,400 
70-73% ot 
pace heoting from um. Callach hatter thon 
2X of 
rectotion. A Th mater operates © heat pap for 
enlliary 
beating (ore coating) 
Uses some tyson at 
fr 
heating Welw cure In 
the re 
comagetion, 
which rodiate hoo! ot 
alg 
‘The hot pomp operates betwen the te water tat, the 
‘cold wide beng proeased 
by te non 
(ol Hwee Ho.) In 
M. Yanorjimachl, "How 
Selar 
Energy, 
The Parkway 
hia, PA 19103 
the architectural context, Fuller again has pointed out 
Overall three-dimensional form of Manhattan Island, 
ousands of separate building ‘spikes’ could hardly 
2 
better devised as a means of increasing surface 
and 
so of losing heat—— much like the cooling fins on a 
rcycle engine 
or a car radiator. For summer cooling in 
attan this is of course a good thing. Fuller's proposal to 
th island with a single giant dome is partly based on a 
f reducing heat loss by an effective reduction of this 
cial 
firms active in the field of solar power applications 
ions 
include McDonnell Douglas Astronautics of 
igton Beach, CA; Gulf General Atomics Co. of San 
); 
Honeywell Inc, in Minneapolis; The Aerospace 
ration of El Segundo, CA; and Sandia Laboratories 
querque, New Mexico. Companies involved in 
Ng 
applications or in the design of low temperature 
ite collectors include Texas Instruments, the Lockheed 
and Space Co. in Palo Alto, and Thermo Electron 
altham, MA. Several of these companies are 
ing in collaboration with NSF-funded university 
arch groups. 
Pie 
« 
‘ 
Z 
ough some designers have placed the heat storage 
voir outside the building, this is not ideal from the 
t of view of heat loss. The reservoir must always be 
ilated, but nevertheless some heat will still 
d if the reservoir is placed inside or beneath 
ing, say in the basement, then this escaping heat 
the 
interior spaces. A further advantage of 
@ storage tank in the basement is that the conduc- 
‘hrough the surrounding earth is low, and even if heat 
Pe to raise the temperature of this earth, it may be 
again in part when the temperature of the tank 
ffect the earth acts as additional storage capacity. 
storage system, placing the tank below 
2ans that the water can be drained out of 
ravity at the approach of freezing 
_ become more energy-intensive 
In many cases, the problems arise from people working 
where intuition is no longer enough to ensure useful 
performance. 
Second point is that most wind, solar and methane hardware 
is being designed and used ina very disjointed way. To be 
really energy efficient requires that both the energy 
producing equipment and the energy using hardware be 
designed together as a system. 
Too often | see people trying 
to solar heat an A Frame house, a style that has a high heat 
loss. The result is that a large, energy and material 
consuming collector is necessary, and a fuel burning backup 
system is needed as well. Expensive. 
It seems that we can 
see the folly of fat cars, but not of fat houses. Unhappily 
the houses that many of us like best are energy hogs. 
There 
is a lot of attitude changing to be done yet in all parts of 
our society. 
Last point is that much of the thinking in these papers and 
plans exemplifies the errors I’ve noted. Plans for wind 
machines show no means of lubrication. Solar collector 
Hidden Waste 
This pamphlet names and thoroughly annotates 
sources for the energy-use information it contains. 
This stands in welcome contrast to the usual over- 
emotionalized half-truths and unsubstantiated claims 
of villainy that one finds all too often in the media. 
Though intended for serious students, the paper is 
not difficult reading. It illuminates the villains and 
occasionally indicates possible soft underbellies. 
The 
author cites a wide variety of information sources 
including the AEC, Bureau of Mines and other U.S. 
Government publications as well as 
Environmentalist 
writings. Needed facts for environmental fighters. 
—JB 
Hidden Waste 
(Potentials for Energy 
Conservation) 
David B. Large, Ed. 
1973; 137pp. 
$3.00 postpaid 
from: 
The Conservation Foundation 
1717 Massachusetts Ave. NW 
Washington, DC 20036 
[One] spur to energy growth is 
residential use; homes now 
directly use 20% of our 
energy. The major contributor 
to the growth of residential 
use has been electricity; 
between 1960 and 1970 it 
grew by 130%. But the 
number of wired households 
increased by only 24%. Thus 
the use of electricity per 
household increased by 84% 
during this ten year period. 
While certain appliances have 
(for example, a frost-free 
refrigerator uses 50% more 
energy than a conventional 
one), the major contributor is 
increased purchase and use of. 
appliances: affluence. 
21% of the total U.S. energy budget is devoted to the 
automobile. 
e 
During the period 1960-1970, the number of automobiles 
Energy Primer 
The Energy Primer is sti// under construction as | 
write this, so | visited the workroom and looked at 
what had been done, and talked a few hours with 
Chuck Missar, one of the editors. 
The book is being 
produced by the Whole Earth Truck Store, New 
Alchemy West, Ecology Action Palo Alto, and 
Alternate Sources of Energy. 
It’s sponsored by 
Portola Institute. Chuck says: 
The Energy Primer is a blend of several concepts. First, we 
have covered the subjects of solar, wind, small-scale water, 
BioFuels (methane, wood, alcohol, aquaculture and agri- 
culture), architecture and energy conservation in one 
volume. Within each major energy source chapter we have 
presented a “‘textbooky” article on the subject, trying to 
introduce readers to the material in a scientific, reasonably 
rigorous way. (John Yellottt has written the solar article, 
Richard Merrill has written the BioFuel article, and so on.) 
We then surveyed the significant books, articles and hard- 
ware in eacn area and reviewed most of them in detail, 
listing availability and cost. Then comes state-of-the-art 
(who is doing what, where and how) as best we could put 
it together at the time. These, and short sections on 
national energy policy, geothermal and transportation, make 
up the Energy Primer. 
Information in the Primer will be updated in later Printings, 
but as a regular source of information Alternative Sources of 
Energy Newsletter will be the place to look. 
plans tell you (for $5.00) “if collector leaks rain, seal it”, 
which is not so easily done. Readers who partake from 
these offerings will note a considerable disagreement and 
even hostility amongst the people engaged in energy work. 
Many of the schemes being sold are for equipment that has 
not been adequately tested. 
The few that list performance 
atal/lare pretty vague. But the true test of a solar machine 
is “were you warm last Feb?” and time will show who’s best 
soon. Meantime, there is a lot to be discovered yet. 
/f these papers may be taken as typical, there is also a lot 
of work to be done in reducing the NEED for energy. 
Except for a very few projects, most work has only lightly 
touched on that. 
In these papers, there is scarcely a hint of 
thought concerning the advantages of materials economy, 
size reduction, low-energy-subsidy designs and the possibility 
of eliminating hardware altogether. For most of us, the 
changes coming in point-of-use of energy will touch the 
way we live most noticeably. 
—JB 
per capita in the U.S. increased from 0.34 to 0.44 (an 
absolute increase of 46%). Personal per-capita dollar costs of 
car Ownership, measured in deflated dollars, increased from 
$308 per year to $385 per year. These per capita figures 
are particularly astounding when one realizes that there are 
approximately 65 million Americans under 16 years of age, 
and 100 million—— almost 50% of the population—— who 
have no driver’s license. 
An example of what can be done to shift urban travel from 
cars to busses was described recently in the trade journal 
Public Utilities Fortnightly: 
Stockholm, the capital of Sweden, wants to eliminate autos 
from its streets. As the first step in its campaign, the 
Public Transportation Department now offers a $10 monthly 
Pass, good for travel anywhere and any time on Stockholm’s 
subway, busses, trains, and trams, to a distance of 40 miles 
outside the city. Under the pass system, commuters save 
as much as 50 percent on their monthly transport expenses. 
Soon after the passes went on sale, Stockholm’s busses and 
trains became significantly more crowded, the motorways 
less so. The Transportation Department, which had been 
losing passengers at a rate of 2 to 4 percent a year, plans 
Slag and glass ap 
Mill scale and 
‘small iron pieces 
r iron wire 
Massive iron 
Resources. Ten to twelve dollars worth of recoverable products is found in each ton of municipal incinerator residue 
now to add supplementary vehicles. 
Stockholm’s busses may be more crowded at present, but 
they also move faster. Since about 80 percent of bus 
Passengers now offer passes instead of cash, the time spent 
on fare collection has been reduced from about two minutes 
to forty seconds per bus stop in the central city. 
|f we have to do anything right, we said early in our work, 
we must dispel the myths concerning renewable forms of 
energy and encourage realistic, workable plans, systems and 
hardware. We think we have put together a working tool 
to help people create their own energy sources. 
In addition, 
we have stressed accurate and organized record keeping, 
safety on the job and with the hardware, energy conservation 
(something we have to get good at before starting a hardware 
trip) and the idea that we have to become our own “experts.”’ 
—Chuck Missar 
/ looked at the completed chapter on solar by John 
Yellott and found it to be a meaty presentation of the 
basic numbers you need to do experimental work 
with solar energy. 
I’m looking forward to having my 
copy so | won't have to look that information up in 
a dozen different places any more. 
This book has 
been needed for a long time, and it looks as if it’s a 
good one. 
—JB 
$4.50 usa 
$5.00 Elsewhere 
$2.00 microfiche 
from: 
Whole Earth Truck Store 
558 Santa Cruz Ave. 
Menlo Park, CA 94025 
be 
a a
», 
ats 
Ae
Yirl
ee
KIO
LIO
a
