book on communication with 
xplains at length how a rider can become 
»r to every horse he mounts, and that only as 
er can 
he begin to learn from horses. Carefully 
described is a 
method of training that should finally 
»bsolete any idea of “breaking a horse.’” Also good 
argument on proper saddle design. 
mae 
—RM 
Univ. of Oklahoma Press 
1005 Asp Ave. 
‘Whole Earth 
jay that horsemen who can afford to own only one 
‘a time can increase and broaden their experience 
hey find practical or convenient. 
In other words, use a 
horse 
until you feel that you have learned all you can from 
, have mastered his particular temperament and 
jarities, and have made a better mount of him as 
HORSE CARE & HORSESHOEING 
Dad 
by Jeb Barton 
? 
» 
Nomadics Tipi Makers 
Star Route, Box 41 
Cloverdale, OR 97112 
sameness in Horses is my personal education source when 
ing with my own horses, buying horses, or shoeing. 
It 
, clearly written, very well illustrated with drawings 
tographs, and written in language that is easy to 
both common and Latin names usually occurring 
le. Every lameness is accompanied by a section 
Definition, Etiology (theory of the causes), Signs, 
nosis and Differential Diagnosis, Treatment, and 
Prognosis (expected future course of the disease). Virtually 
|| horse lamenesses of any significance are included and 
very common lameness is thoroughly covered. 
you know nothing of horses and are thinking of buying 
ne, the first 50 pages of the book (including 32 drawings 
hotos) offer an excellent introduction to conformation 
ines—— what a horse should and should not look like 
e untrained eye. Very informative. There are also 10 
ional pages explaining how to determine whether or 
>t 
the horse you are looking at is ‘‘sound'"’—— ‘’Examina- 
On for Soundness.” 
e book includes a section on horseshoeing and trimming, 
5 Pages. The information 
is good and well illustrated. 
r 
d it as helpful to the unfamiliar but not to be used 
le guide to someone who has never trimmed a horse’s 
let alone shod one. There is a limit to the do-it- 
self-from-a-book and | feel it stops abruptly with living 
No one should attempt to trim (certainly not shoe) 
rse until they have had some first hand instruction from 
iable teacher. 90% of horse lameness occurs from the 
down! 
from: 
Lea & Febiger 
600 Washington Square 
Philadelphia, PA 19106 
or Whole Earth 
of 
TPE 
aloe 
66; 563pp. 
h a udied in depth the book Horseshoeing by Lungwitz 
is also listed in Pg. 67 of the Last WEC. The book is 
od. Illustrations are excellent but the text is incomplete 
id some 
of the information is antiquated. 
| suggest 
S of Farrier Science. 
It is modern, to the point, 
hat more complete and comprehensive than the 
. 
It is amore useful all around book. As it 
-arrier Science.’ (Caution: this book advertises 
s"’ tools in the back. Enderes tools are very poor 
nd are not worth the buy.) 
s of Farrier Science. 
169 pages, by D.M. Canfield 
stributed by Enderes Tool Co., Inc. Albert 
ae 
PY 
oe, 
[Suggested by Bob Roessel] 
well as.a better horseman of yourself. Then, stifling what- 
ever sentimental attachment you may have developed for 
the animal, sell him to somebody who will appreciate him 
and buy yourself another horse, preferably one of a markedly 
different temperament. School the new horse until again 
you feel that you have mastered him and that both of you 
have benefited from the experience. 
. 
. .1n a few years, 
following this system, you can teach yourself much more 
about horses and horsemanship than you could learn by 
riding the same horse for a decade. 
Almost all troubles that one is likely to encounter in 
schooling a horse stem from four principal errors commonly 
committed by a majority of horsemen. These errors are: 
1. Lack of a definite plan, method, or system of procedure, 
with a clearly conceived objective in view, before the 
training is begun. 
2. Inconsistency by the trainer in applying cues or aids to 
which he expects the horse to respond. 
3. Demanding too much of a horse at one time. 
4. “Rushing” a young horse's progress, demanding not 
only too much but demanding it too soon. 
Lea, Minnesota 56007. $11.95. This book can probably 
be ordered through any feed or agriculture supply store. 
HORSESHOEING AND FARRIER’S TOOLS 
The best Farrier’s tools made in this country are made by 
G. E. Forge and Tool works. G. E. stands for George 
Earnest, and as their catalog says ‘George Earnest spent a 
lifetime of work at the horseshoeing and blacksmith trades 
and as a result of his many years of experience and under- 
standing for the need of a good quality tool, he designed 
the G. E. set of tools.’ They claim, “Our tools are made 
from the very best quality refined tool steel on the market 
today." 
| think it’s true. 
The G. E. saddle horse clinchers and gooseneck clinchers 
are two of the best designed tools that | have ever held in 
my hand. Most of their tools cost between $20-$35. That 
is $10-$20 higher than most any other tool maker, but it is 
more than worth it. Even with frequent use they should 
outlast the owner if given proper care. 
G. E. makes; nippers, clinchers, pull offs, crease nail 
pullers, hoof testers, fire tongs and rounding hammers. 
Catalog on request: 
G. E. Forge and Tool Works 
P.O. Box 369 
Arroyo Grande, CA 93420 
If you can’t afford G. E, tools then the next best name is 
Diamond. 
(I prefer Diamond fire tongs rather than the 
G. E.'s.) Diamond tools are well designed, the steel quality 
is adequate, they are about half as expensive as G. E. tools, 
and they can be ordered through most feed stores or saddle 
shops. Example, 15’’ Diamond nippers are about $20. 
G. E. 14” nippers are about $35. 
Unless you simply have no other choice, avoid tools made 
by S. S. S., Multi-Products, Enderes or Heller. Nicholson 
makes the best horse rasp, but only leads Willie-Charlie by 
a nose, while Heller and the rest trail far behind. The best 
hoof knife is made by Erik Frost of Sweden. Well 
designed. Their wide blade knife is more useful than their 
narrow blade knife. Both right and left handed knives are 
available. Can be found at most feed stores or saddle shops. 
Bordizzo of Italy is a poorly designed hoof knife, but they 
do make the only extra thin blade knife that | have seen. 
It is quite useful for scouring out abcesses. 
Farrier’s Anvils: The two most important aspects of an 
anvil are its steel quality and its conformation. (A farrier’s 
anvil is different in design from a blacksmith’s anvil.) 
A farrier’s anvil should weigh between 100 and 125 Ibs. 
Of those readily available, the G. E. ($175) and the 
Centaur ($125) are the best. 
| useaG. E. | have never 
used a Centaur but it has been highly recommended bya 
seasoned farrier who knows what he’s looking at. | have 
seen the complete specifications on the Centaur anvil and 
it does look every bit as good asaG. E. Catalog on request. 
The Way of a Horse 
Horse breeding—— not by artificial insemination, or 
trucking a mare to a stud for a day, but as part of 
raising horses. Keep the stallion in a pasture with 
the mares, de Beaumont says; keep a goat witha 
shut-up horse for companionship; work on gentling 
every horse from the day it is born. Schooling 
the Western Horse he/ps to modernize bronk busting 
into horse training. The Way of a Horse brings 
breeding back from 1984. 
—RM 
The Way of a Horse 
Marguerite de Beaumont 
1953; 19ipp. 
$8.50 postpaid 
from: 
The British Book Ctr, Inc. 
Trade & Library Div. 
996 Lexington Ave. 
New York, NY 10021 
or Whole Earth 
The mare had no milk whatever, so we used three goats, 
morning, noon and evening, bringing them into the loose 
box with the mare and foal. .. This worked very well indeed. 
We had none of the troubles connected with bottle feeding, 
and the foal grew and did excellently. 
. 
. That was not the 
first time | have used goats. On one occasion we had an 
orphan foal. This we reared quite successfully on a goat. 
| would never like to be without them, as horses will drink 
goat’s milk out of a bucket, and if they are in low condition 
it is most useful for building up constitution after illness 
or injury. Horses and goats get on very well together. The 
content of goat’s milk makes it suitable to be fed to foals 
without the addition of water or sugar. 
It may seem strange to say that there is nothing so gentle as 
a stallion. 
| have had the interesting experience at my Stud 
of having the same stallion turned out with mares for some 
years, with an occasional new mare introduced into his herd. 
In this way one is able to understand the life of horses in 
their wild state, to see how very strong the protective 
instinct of a stallion really is, how very gentle he always is 
with his mares and foals. 
. 
. 
. | have seen this horse in the 
field with mares when they foal, standing quietly by the 
side of the mare and helping her to lick the foal dry when it 
was born. 
Earth Garden 
A gentle, skilled homestead journal from Australia—— with 
an unprovincial world view. 
—RM 
Earth Garden 
Irene & 
Keith V. Smith, Eds. 
$4.50/y; 
from: 
Earth Garden 
P.O. Box 111 
Balmain, 2041 
Australia 
DOG BISCUITS 
Egg shells crushed finely (vitamiser is best). 
Any ground grains. 
Mix with water, spread on well-oiled tray. Sprinkle oil on 
top. Cook for about 40 minutes. Cut or break into small 
Pieces. These biscuits can be made either hard or soft, 
depending on the amount of water used. 
Centaur Company 
Blacksmiths’ and Horseshoers’ Supplies 
Burlington, Wisc. 53105 
(The Centaur Co. does carry D. S. Handmade horseshoeing 
tools. D. S. tools are comparable to G. E. tools but usually 
not as available.) 
Horseshoeing Nails: The best nails are made by Capewell. 
The standard saddle horse size is City Head 5. They are 
expensive. About $2 per Ib. Do not use Multi-Products Co. 
nails. They are only $1.10 per Ib, but are so thick that they 
almost always split the hoof wall—— even with careful 
nailing on a thick-walled foot! You are also liable to cause 
undue and unseen pressure on the sensitive laminae. 
ASM
CN
T 
se
Se
