ATIONS 
ms “Rg 
er 
Ze) 
«i 
PE 
UFR 
eV 
+ 
SD ae 
Video pages 
TVTV is a video production group in San Francisco. 
_Members of TVTV who compiled this information 
include: Michael Couzens, Hudson Marquez, Allen 
Rucker, Michael Shamberg, Tom Weinberg, and 
Megan Williams. 
INTRODUCTION 
When Sony introduced portable video equipment, everyone 
thought that the media revolution had come. There was a 
lot of heady talk about public access TV, porta-paks to the 
People, videotape as a major art form. The potential was 
so obvious that people made the particular American mistake 
of thinking that change was imminent. 
Now, five years later, cable TV is gasping for life, public 
access is still cottage television, and video art is yet to produce 
major work. On the other hand, there are now thousands and 
thousands of porta-paks in people's hands. 
This means that alternate television, or whatever you want to 
Call it, is really just now beginning. Those who were 
attracted to it as a fad have fallen by the wayside, and those 
who stuck it out have just begun to get professional, not 
Professional in the sense of becoming a junior CBS, but in 
developing whole new standards for TV. 
As a result, if you didn’t get sucked into believing that porta- 
Paks could cure cancer, then there really is a lot going on, 
mainly in these areas: 
1. Video service: this is the use of tape in situations where 
finished programs is not the only end. It includes therapeutic 
uses, Community feedback, and small-scale information 
programs. 
2. Video art: when this began, consensus was video 
synthesizers were going to be a major art form. Now so much 
synthesized tape looks the same that it’s been dubbed 
“electronic wallpaper.’’ While there are some brilliant people 
doing video synthesis, far more interesting is perceptual video, 
which rejuggles the familiar in both videotapes and video 
environments. 
3. Non-fiction television: conventional TV journalism is still 
bound up in methods which come from other media, i.e., 
radio and documentary film. But videotape is inherently TV 
information, than for no other reason that it’s played back 
through a TY set. The last few years has seen the rise of a 
new video journalism which is more personal and subjective 
than conventional forms, but no less true. 
So the conclusion is that alternate TV is just now beginning 
to get good, after going through a testing period, and we'll 
know how it all turned out about five years from now. 
—MS 
BEGINNERS MANUALS 
There is as yet no definitive guide to video-making. The 
following books will provide you with more than enough 
information to buy equipment and understand its technical 
possibilities. Don’t look to them for a grammar of aesthetics. 
Petersen’s Guide to 
Video Tape Recording 
Charles Bensinger & the 
Editors of Photographic 
Magazine 
$2.00 Postpaid 
from: 
Petersen Publishing Co. 
8490 Sunset Blvd. 
Los Angeles, CA 90069 
or Whole Earth 
Petersen’s Guide to Video 
Tape Recording is a snappy, 
clear-cut, magazine-style 
introduction to basic 
equipment and procedures. 
For the price ($2.00), it’s 
a well-illustrated point of 
departure. 
$7.95 postpaid 
Available Nov. 74 
from: 
Straight Arrow 
Independent Video 
(A Complete Guide to the 
Physics, Operation, and 
Application of the New 
ision 
for 
the Student, | c/o Western Book Service 
Aetagoee foe Coreriaiey 
P.O. Box 3975, Rincon Annex 
Tv) 
San Francisco, CA 94119 
Ken Marsh 
or Whole Earth 
Independent Video reads like an elementary physics text 
for low-cost television. A useful, well-organized reference 
manual for comprehending the jargon and logic of engineers. 
Sketchy in its production and home repair advice. 
The Video Primer 
(Equipment, Production 
and Concepts) 
from: 
Links Books 
33 West 60th St. 
Richard Robinson 
New York, NY 10023 
$7.95 postpaid 
or Whole Earth 
The Video Primer is more of a production handbook, with 
an abundance of information on how to make your tapes 
Professional-looking. 
Needlessly verbose, but enough 
options here on camerawork, use of accessories, and post- 
production to guide you toward your own production style. 
| 
To keep rechargeable batteries up to full charge, recharge 
them for a couple of hours every day. Never store batteries 
in a discharge condition. 
Batteries tend to nave a ‘‘memory”’ 
and if they're left uncharged for long periods of time, they'll 
literally ‘forget’ what their full charge potential was and 
won't ever take a full charge again. At the same time, once 
batteries are recharged, they should be allowed to sit for 
an hour or two before use. 
—The Video Primer 
The Spaghetti City Video Manual 
How to use video equipment is something you can always 
figure out for yourself, but how to repair it is essential from 
the start. Especially if you're on location somewhere, there’s 
nothing worse than having to /ug around a broken porta-pak 
with no idea of what’s wrong with it. 
The Spaghetti City Video Manual is simp/y the most essential 
book on porta-paks there is. In simple language, it tells how 
the equipment works, and how to maintain and repair it. 
/t concentrates on the things you can do yourself, and which 
go wrong the most, like broken cables, broken heads, and 
burnt vidicons, along with fundamental electronic adjustments. 
Its only drawback is that it’s geared toward Sony equipment, 
‘while there are other.good brands now available, but still, 
most of the information is applicable. Also, it could be cheaper, 
if the publisher brought out a paperback edition. 
—MS 
t 
viDEO MANUA 
THE 
gpaAGHETT! 
ciTY 
. omens? 
_ 
repeire 
end mainecnens 
The Spaghetti City 
Video Manual 
and maintenance) 
Videofreex 
1973; 116pp. 
$7.95 postpaid 
from: 
P.O. Box 1323 
or Whole Earth 
4. There is only one way to clean the brushes. .. VERY 
CAREFULLY! The brushes are thin, brittle pieces of metal, 
and they are already under pressure. They have enough 
flexibility to allow for a piece of chamois cloth or a Sony 
cleaning stick to be passed between them and the slip 
rings, but not much more. 
HARDWARE 
Since porta-paks were introduced six years ago, Sony has 
introduced four different models, or one every eighteen 
months. And whereas only Sony made them before, there 
are now at least a half-dozen competing brands. Fortunately, 
most of them share the same standard and new equipment 
tends to upgrade instead of replacing the old. 
But anyone who is serious about video should make it a point 
to keep up with the state of the art, because there are 
occasional modifications—— like low-light vidicon tubes—— 
which extend the range of existing equipment, and frequent 
new products—— like color porta-paks—— which can alter 
things radically. 
j 
Next to talking to a good hardware dealer, the best source of. 
equipment information is a periodical called Video Tools, 
published by CTL Electronics, a good hardware dealer. It is 
honest, comprehensive, and oriented as much toward the 
alternate as the industrial user. 
Another company to keep in touch with is TECHNISPHERE 
in New York, which sends out brochures of equipment 
modifications, like adding video insert:capability to your 
%"' editor. 
(A guide to use, repair, 
Praeger Publishers. Inc. 
Springfield, MA 01101 
| 
—Video Tape Recording 
As for the future, it’s color. Color, however, is a whole 
different ballgame than black & white, as it’s both more 
complex and more expensive. It's too soon to tell which 
system will be the best—— there are only a few available 
at present—— but the price range for a color porta-pak unit 
should be around $5-6,000. 
And thanks to the most significant breakthrough in video 
technology since the porta-pak—~— the TIME BASE 
CORRECTOR, a processor that makes cheap video 
~ 
broadcast-standard—— broadcasters can now use the same 
equipment as video freaks. So color will be the cross-over 
as commercial types downgrade and video freaks upgrade. 
This means that style, not technology, will be what separates 
commercial from alternate television. 
—MS 
VideoTools No. 1 
$1.00 Postpaid 
Video Tools No. 2 
Editors: 
Paula Jaffe and 
Bill Narum 
1973; 41pp. 
$3.00 postpaid 
both from: 
CTL Electronics Inc. 
86 W. Broadway 
New York, NY 10007 
(New issue due Winter 1974) 
TECHNISPHERE CORPORATION 
215 East 27th St. 
New York, NY 10016 
NEWSLETTER NOISE 
Here’s a handful of publications which cover a range of video 
television interests. They are the best in their category—— 
most with reliable bibliographies which lead to other special 
topic pubs. Or, for an industry overview, here’s the creme de 
la creme. 
Radical Software was the first of the video newsletters. A 
complete set of issues provides a theoretical and historical 
context for video. The information is available nowhere else 
and still invaluable. Bias is East Coast. Topics are networking| 
information theory, tv environment, video art, kids and video 
etc. The time span is ‘70-'74; as time went by, enthusiasm 
waned. There may be another volume or perhaps just a book, 
the editors are not yet certain. 
Radical Software 
Vol. I 
(1-6) 
aré delivered to 
$3 issue 
the advertiser who is 
the customer, 
Vol. II 
(1-6) 
$1 95 /issue 
from: 
Gordon and Breach 
One Park Ave. 
New York, NY 10016 
Community Video Report (D.C.) and Blue Sky (the Rockies] 
are two excellent community/cable newsletters published by 
people who are doing it. The low-down on community 
organizing, successful program ideas, reports on cable 
conferences (straight and alternate), and analysis of the FCC 
from a user's standpoint. Well formatted samples of 
informative community newsletters. 
Community Video 
Blue Sky 
Report 
Bi-monthly 
Quarterly 
$5 /yr, personal 
$4 / yr, personal 
$10 /yr, industry 
$12 /yr, industry 
FREEto 
~ 
from: 
: 
Boulder residents 
Community Video Report 
from: 
Box 21068 
Blue Sky 
Washington, DC 20009 
Box 1773 
Boulder, CO 80302 
