ple’s Guide to Mexico 
he 
best 360° coverage of traveling and short-term living in 
lexico that’s going. Reading the book is almost like being 
ere and going through the problems and frustrations, 
asures and wonders of dealing with a new en vironment, 
ew 
people and new ways of doing things, but by golly 
Ty page, every step of the way you're learning something. 
rl is candid, to the point, and leaves few, if any, questions 
answered in telling you how to handle just about every- 
_- 
hing: border crossing, driving in Mexico, public transporta- 
tion, hitching, camping, indigenous living (living on the 
beach, building a hut, stove, digging a well, etc.) and 
_ Scrounging for food, renting a house, restaurants, markets, 
stores, health, legal hassels, communication services, car 
__ repairs, the language and customs, cantinas and whore- 
houses, buying things, and so forth. A fantastic book, well 
written and really interesting. After reading the People’s 
Guide, it would seem that the Fodar Guide to Mexico and 
others in their league are just so much pissin’ in the wind. 
=_ 
The People’s Guide 
to Mexico 
Carl Franz 
1972; 380pp. 
$3. 95 postpaid 
from: 
John Muir Publications 
P.O. Box 613 
Santa Fe, NM 87501 
or Whole Earth 
LEG 
AUEFE 
ne 
Gh 
14> 
The Mexican sense of humor is strongly based on the double 
meaning. These double-meanings may be quite obvious or 
subtle to the point of complete mystification. Because of 
their frequent use, either as obvious jokes or traps for the 
unwary, you should learn to avoid certain words and 
expressions. Don’t panic—— in ordinary conversation 
In the market you'll probably want to buy eggs. You spota 
likely stall, tended by a respectable looking young man, and 
you ask, “{ Tiene huevos?” (‘Do you have eggs?’’). 
Immediately everyone in the area begins to laugh and shout 
to each other, enjoying a joke that is obviously at your 
expense. You fight down anger (or panic) and look _ 
beseechingly at the fellow, hoping for a little compassion. 
He answers calmly, “Yes, | do. Two big ones.” If this 
doesn’t bring down the house, your flustered exit will. 
The use of the word huevo should by now be of obvious 
double meaning. You've just asked the guy if he “has balls’” 
_ 
and he’s proudly confirmed that he does. The safe words 
_ for egg are blanquillo (little white one) or yema (yolk). 
Trails of the Sierra Madre 
Now here’s a guidebook that not only makes good armchair 
reading, but also has a whole raft load of practical infor- 
mation as well. Boudreau writes like others spin a tale and 
he answers your questions about who, where, and how, 
before you've asked them. 
It’s all here in 77 pages planning 
the wilderness excursion to Mexico’s Sierra Madre Mountains, 
getting there, gear and equipment, hiring guides and why 
you should, local customs, language and dealing with the 
people, names of individuals to contact in specific towns, 
problems to be aware of and much more all welded together 
with interesting tales and anecdotes. Anyone contemplating 
writing a guidebook could read Boudreau’s book and they 
would be taking a good first step. 
there are only a few words that you'll want to use with care. 
The handing over of the mordida is done discreetly and 
without embarrassment on the part of either person. None 
of this, “Pssst! Meet me in urinal four at eight o'clock!” 
Instead you reach casually into your wallet (or your pocket 
if you're really prepared), extract a dollar or two and hand 
them over. 
If it isn’t enough, the official will shake his head. 
You pull out another dollar and another and when the right 
amount has been reached, business will Proceed as usual. 
Border officials generally take only minor amounts and 
manage to restrain themselves from really bilking people. 
Handle the situation with the proper attitude; just assume 
that every bribe is a legal and required fee. Don’t act like 
a naughty child or a criminal or the person being bribed will 
react defensively and probably raise the price. When you 
both pretend (1 really believe it in most cases) that a small 
Consideration is legitimate, the transaction will be fast and 
friendly. 
: 
ae 1/1 
Trails of the Sierra Madre 
Eugene Boudreau 
1973; 77pp. 
$3.75 postpaid 
from: 
Capra Press 
631 State St. 
Santa Barbara, CA 93101 
or 
Scrimshaw Press 
149 Ninth St. 
San Francisco, CA 94103 
or Whole Earth 
Guides are plentiful. Thousands of men and boys, capable of 
serving as competent and trustworthy guides, are available. 
Making contact with one is not difficult. When you arrive in 
the town or village where you plan to begin your trip, have a 
talk with the local school teacher (who may speak some 
English), store owner, police chief, priest, mayor, or head of 
the farmers’ cooperative. 
Explain your need for an honest, 
sturdy yoeman of common sense who can handle stock 
animals and is well acquainted with the area. 
Don’t expect to find a guide who speaks English. It’s 
mandatory that you know some Spanish unless you can find 
someone to explain to your prospective guide just what you 
want to do. 
~ Traveler's 
Guide Book to 
~, 
- 
A real sleeper, ranks here in popularity with the 
Vagabonding books. Probably better: less localize 
detail and more considered advice. 
: 
—Richard Gree 
ware cL ER'S 
Traveler’s Guide Book to 
is oe )0k 
Europe & Asia 
CU 
Mark Atlas 
N! 
GUROPE and ASIA 
1973; 249pp. 
: 
i! 
Unt PASSPORT TO 
$2.95 postpaid 
yO 
MAKING IT \B 
econ 
amin 
Robert Speller & Sons, 
Fly ede 
= 
Pub., Inc. 
Or tae 
10 E. 23rd St. 
New York, NY 10010 
or Whole Earth 
ux, odd 
Te es Me 
ores 
In April of 1970 when | passed through Afghanistan, there 
was a notice on the bulletin board of the American Embass 
It said, “Warning: The penalty in Iran for trafficking in dry 
is death. 26 shot to date. 1 American on trial now. Don't 
next.” By November of 1970, 56 had been shot. 
RECOMMENDED PLACE TO RECEIVE MAIL - 
Allow at least ten days for sending mail to and from the 
Soviet Union. 
If you must receive mail there, use American 
Express International, Hotel Metropole, Suite 384, Sverdioy 
Place, No. 2/4 Moscow. Tel: 256-384. 
FURTHER INFORMATION 
Intourist Office, 45 East 49th St., New York, NY 10017. 
Tel: (212) 752-3030. 
TRANS-SIBERIAN EXPRESS 
It's been said that this is the shortest way around the world 
and the least expensive way to go from Europe to East Asia 
(Japan, Hong Kong etc.). As with any trip to Russia arran 
ments must be made through Intourist. The entire trip 
’
from Moscow heading east to Nakhodka (North of Japan), 
takes approximately 11 days and costs in the neighborhood 
of $350. The train stops twice along the way and the scen 
tends to get boring. Travelers contemplating taking this 
route should check on weather conditions and occasional 
flare-ups on the Russian-Chinese border. Due to the above, 
trains are often canceled. 
When you travel through Asia, you will find yourself part of 
massive fraternity of young travelers. 
All along the travel 
route in almost every major stop from Istanbul through Ind: 
to Singapore you will find many meeting places for traveler 
These may be a hotel, a cafe or an American Express Office| 
It is here that you will receive valuable information and 
~ travel tips from your fellow travelers that might not only 
Save you money but could save your life. This information| 
extremely valuable, up to date and not available in any gui 
books. 
The map section on Asia will give you pertinent informatiot 
collected through extensive research and actual travel 
experience. 
NOTE: The suppress-the-hippie policy is in full force in 
this area. 
Alaska 
Good source of background on the state if you're planning 
to migrate there. 
Covers housing and homesteading 
(defunct), transportation, recreation, cost of living, taxes, 
government, and job opportunities. 
Pretty straight forward 
with both the good and the bad. 
—AP 
Alaska 
Alaska Services 
1973; 55pp. 
$1 .00 postpaid 
from: 
Alaska Services 
Box 89171 
Anchorage, AL 99508 
