of drinkable water in the home in addition to your 
stored water. The storage tank of the hot-water 
eater may contain from 20 to 60 gallons. (If you 
periodically open the drain valve at the bottom of 
he tank until the water runs clear, you can avoid a 
buildup of rust and sediment in this potential 
supply.) 
The water in the flush tanks (not the bowls) 
of home toilets is drinkable. If your water service is 
nterrupted, or if you are instructed to turn off the 
ain water valve, you should turn off the gasline 
hat supplies your hot-water heater also. Otherwise, 
ontinued heat will muddy the remaining contents, 
or possibly cause an explosion. Shutting off the main 
ater valve also seals clean water in the pipes of your 
plumbing system. The water can be obtained by 
opening a faucet in the uppermost part of the house 
o let air into the system, and then drawing water 
off as needed from a faucet in the lowest part of the 
ouse. 
ip: 
In planning your storage supply of liquids, re- 
member that any canned juices in your reserve 
will be best if processed with very little salt or 
sugar, SO as to maximize their thirst-quenching 
potential. Canned meats with low-salt content 
should also be chosen, such as canned roast 
beef. Dietetic tuna fish and meats contain very 
little salt. 
ETHICS OF FOOD STORAGE 
As I got into the writing of this article, certain questions 
began to nag at me. Wouldn’t encouraging people to store 
ood help bring on the very food shortages we're concerned 
about? By urging “‘self-reliance” 
and “independence of the 
system” through stockpiling food, do we also encourage that 
streak of “take care of number one first” that runs through 
the American character? How many people does it take who 
“opt out” of a commitment to the larger society to create 
nota “run on the bank” but a “run on the country?” Not 
to mention right-wing paranoia that subversives and “‘govern- 
ment control” have undermined the system to the point of 
incipient collapse. 
‘If we’d just let people fend for them- 
selves, everything would be fine’——they’d be only too happy 
to see survival of the fittest take over and weed out the mis- 
its and parasitical poor. Because of course it’s the well-off 
who would be able to afford a ‘‘year’s supply”’——while 
millions worry about where tomorrow’s meal is coming from. 
Heavy thoughts. For most of us, the concern about 
unequal ability to store food is casuistic. 
We don’t worry 
. 
about the hungry when we sit down to our ample daily 
dinners. Moral consistency is for places like the Zen Buddhist 
Center in San Francisco, which has decided not to store food 
because they are located in a poor inner city area where 
having a stockpile of food would invite enmity. Or maybe 
that’s simply self-preservation working for the Center. 
_ 
The main question seems to be whether my storing food 
is actually going to be detrimental to someone else’s welfare. 
To answer that ‘yes’ presupposes that there will be widespread, 
Unquestionably, low-moisture foods have many ad- 
vantages for extended storage: small storing space, 
light weight, less need for rotation, convenience in 
preparation, and low cost are compelling recommenda- 
tions. According to a representative of the Beehive 
Store (distributors of Deseret Supply Co. products), 
dehydrated and freeze dried foods have an average 74% 
‘retention of food nutrients compared with an average 
of 26% for canned goods, varying according to the 
food product. Deseret Supply claims a shelf life of 
10 years for its egg and milk products; other items are 
quoted at a 25 year durability span. Pioneer Foods of 
Des Moines, lowa, reports a shelf life of 10 to 20 
years for its vacuum packed line; somewhat more con- 
servative is Perma-Pak, who state that their products 
stay in good condition over “’five, eight, ten years or 
more of storage.’ Probably the most persuasive state- 
ment is made by Earl Schmidt, Vice President of 
Bernard Food Industries in San Jose, California. He 
points out that although “some firms publicize that 
their products will last ten or twenty years or 
whatever, no one today can really predict what the 
nutritive loss in stored foad items will be... There 
hasn‘t yet been a long enough period of experience 
with storing of foods processed and packed by modern 
methods, to make accurate shelf life predictions.” 
Bernard Foods, by the way, appears to be the only 
food processor to be marketing its own line of de- 
hydrated and freeze dried products for food storage. 
Other storage brand names and distributors are 
selling foodstuffs procured from special firms in the 
dehydrating business. Bernard dries its own fruits 
and most of its vegetables, using no preservatives. 
By controlling the product from the field through to 
the customer, they can deal with any pesticides or 
preservatives remaining from the growing process. 
Involved for 25 years in the institutional low-moisture 
food market, Bernard has recently felt increasing 
demands from home storage customers. In response, 
the firm has inaugurated a new ‘’Stor-a-Pak”’ line, 
featuring a series of complete entrees with beef and 
chicken. (Stroganoff, Tetrazzini, Pemmican Stew, 
Chow Mein and Chili Mac are a few of the casserole- 
style main courses, packed in No. 10 size containers 
that provide 100 or more servings, or in smaller poly 
plastic packages with either 50 or 16 servings.) The 
cost of a 3-ounce serving of an entree in this series 
is 10¢. 
In response to increased interest in low-moisture 
foods, several recipe books have been recently 
published giving guidance to cooks in the correct 
use of these products. Their unanimous admoni- 
tion is: experiment with your dehydrated and 
imminent shortages of food in the United States. Agricultural 
economists do not support this assumption. They say inter- 
national famine exists, and always has in various places at 
various times; but the immediate forecast for the U.S. only 
indicates short-term shortages of particular foodstuffs. In 
spite of fertilizer and energy crises, American farmers will 
likely hike their production considerably this year. Short of 
cataclysmic weather, diminished world food reserves should 
be built up somewhat——at least temporarily——with Ameri- 
can surpluses. The longer view is something else again. 
In this situation, I think food storage can be recommended 
ina positive way. As Dr. Kirby S. Moulton of the University 
of California Agricultural Extension comments, “enough 
people with enough money being sufficiently motivated 
to store enough food to seriously disloca*t? the national food 
market today” is not a scenario which he can envision. On 
the other hand, it is possible that deliberate governmental 
accumulation of food reserves, as well as individual food 
storage, could provide a stabilizing factor in the current 
uncertain market for agricultural crops. Henry Schact, farm 
reporter for the San Francisco Chronicle, points out: 
‘Farm- 
ers are wary of the ‘boom and bust’ they have gone through 
in the past. They are not at all sure that, as some say, we are 
now on anew plateau of world food demand which will 
guarantee them a reasonable price for whatever they can pro- 
duce. They are very much afraid that all-out production can 
again lead to market collapse.” 
In the same vein, at the recent Western Governor’s Con- 
ference on Agriculture Governor Judge of Montana said, 
“Tf we are to become the granary for the world, the federal 
freeze dried foods now, rather than waiting till 
_an emergency situation is at hand to try them. 
By working some of these recipes into your 
normal menu routine, you will gain confidence in the 
versatility of low-moisture foods and in your ability 
to make tasty meals with them. (You should try your — 
experiments with the smaller packages, rather than 
opening up a No. 10 can and having to use it all or 
let it deteriorate with time.) Here are three books with 
many excellent, easy-to-prepare recipes that should 
make cooking dehydrated and freeze dried foods less 
intimidating: 
Just Add Water 
Barbara G. Salsbury 
1972; 71pp. 
$2.50 postpaid 
from: 
: 
Horizon Publishers 
P.O. Box 490 
Bountiful, UT 84010 
or Whole Earth 
Helpful introductory material on the advantages of 
dehydrated foods, how to plan a storage program 
around them, and how to use them most effectively. 
The recipes, which Mrs. Salsbury personally developed, 
range over every part of the daily menu. 
Mix N’ Moisten Meals 
Ruth Stephensen 
1974; 92pp. 
$2.50 postpaid 
from: 
Bookcraft Publishers, Inc. 
1848 W. 2300 S. 
Salt Lake City, UT 84120 
or Whole Earth 
Just published this spring, a collection of over 200 
recipes that includes such favorites as pizza, chicken 
pot pie, donuts, sour cream cabbage, and carrot cake —— 
all made from dehydrated foods. 
é 
Culinary Capers 
Perma Pak 
1972; 155 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
Horizon Publishers 
P.O. Box 490 
Bountiful, UT 84010 
or Whole Earth 
An introduction to low-moisture food cooking, with 
good information on substitutions and tables of 
equivalent amounts, sample yields, and comparisons 
with fresh foods. The greater part of the book is 
devoted to recipes using dehydrated foods, with many 
menu suggestions and helpful hints to make you an 
accomplished and versatile cook of “‘lo-mo“’ meals. 
government must share the responsibility and the risk with 
the ranchers.” The conference report recommends “‘no 
further increase in development of crop production until 
there is reasonable assurance that demand will guarantee 
markets at fair prices,”’ To the extent, then, that indi- 
viduals buy food in more plentiful times for storage and 
use it in times of shortage, they help to even out the 
demand situation for the farmer and undergird a more 
Stable price structure. Furthermore, the ability of 
citizens to take care of themselves in time of food crisis, 
whether caused by natural disaster or economic conditions, 
renders the task of civic or government support agencies 
that much easier. 
The point is, don’t wait till the crisis is at hand to 
rush out in a panic and compete with your fellow citizens 
for the dwindling stocks. Build up your reserve gradually in 
times of relatively good supply and cheaper prices. Food 
prices may temporarily stabilize later on in this year. U.S. 
News and World Report commented in its May 13, ‘74 
issue, “Prices received by the nation’s farmers tumbled 6% 
from mid-March to mid-April, after a 
4% dip the previous 
month.” This drop indicates a possible leveling off in food 
prices to the consumer toward the end of ‘74. There is, of 
course, the chance of misjudging the best time to buy—— 
watch the food market reports and check out farm reporters’ 
columns for knowledgeable predictions. However, in formed 
opinion says that because of increased energy and transporta- 
tion costs, as well as the determination of the U.S. to export 
food for improved balance of payments, there is small likeli- 
hood of any 
real rollback in retail food prices. 
Be 
raises 
ag 
yee 
‘Sind
Bins 
ee 
Ae 
Sr, 
e 
ae
as. 
ae 
H 
