LES 
™, 
WHO 
=" 
SUBSTANTIAL ENERGY STORAGES ARE 
REQUIRED FOR STABILITY OF AN ECONOMY 
# | AGAINST FLUCTUATIONS OF ECONOMIES, OR 
OF NATURAL CAUSES, AND OF MILITARY 
THREATS. 
The frantic rush to use the last of the rich oils and 
gas that are easy to harvest for a little more growth 
and tourism is not the way to maintain power 
stability or political and military security for the 
world community of nations as a whole. World 
stability requires a de-energizing of capabilities of 
vast war, and an evenly distributed power base for 
regular defense establishments, which need to be 
evenly balanced without great power gradients that 
encourage change of military boundaries. A two- 
_ year storage is required for stability of a component. 
17. THE TOTAL TENDENCY FOR NET 
FAVORABLE BALANCE OF PAYMENTS OF A 
COUNTRY RELATIVE TO OTHERS DEPENDS 
ON THE RELATIVE NET ENERGY OF THAT 
COUNTRY INCLUDING ITS NATURAL AND 
FUEL-BASED ENERGIES MINUS ITS WASTES 
AND NONPRODUCTIVE ENERGY USES. 
Countries with their own rich energies can export 
goods and services with less requirement for money 
than those that have to use their money to buy 
their fuels. Those countries with inferior energy 
flows into useful work become subordinate energy 
dependents to other countries. A country that sells 
oil but does not use it within its boundaries to 
develop useful work is equally subordinate since 
a major flow of necessary high quality energy in 
the form of technical goods and services is external 
in this case. The country with the strongest 
position is the one with a combination 
of internal 
sources of rich energies and internal sources of 
developed structure and information based on the 
energy. The relations of energy sources to payment 
balances are given in Figure 6. 
Figure 
6 A. Diagram showing how energy sources and energy loss path- 
ways affect the balance of payments and general economic competition 
Position of a single country. Better balance results when one’s own 
energy sources are better, and one’s waste less. 
Fuels, Goods, 
& Services 
All 
Internal 
Energy 
Sources 
Bolance 
¢ 
Payment: 
ue 
Depreciation 
& Waste 
= 
18. DURING PERIODS OF EXPANDING 
ENERGY AVAILABILITIES, MANY KINDS OF 
GROWTH-PRIMING ACTIVITIES MAY FAVOR 
ECONOMIC VITALITY AND THE ECONOMY’S 
ABILITY TO COMPETE. INSTITUTIONS, 
CUSTOMS, AND ECONOMIC POLICIES AID BY 
ACCELERATING ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN 
AN AUTOCATALYTIC WAY. 
5 
Many pump priming properties of fast growing 
economies have been naturally selected and remain 
in procedures of government and culture. Urban 
concentrations, high use of cars, economic subsidy 
to growth, oil depletion allowances, subsidies to 
population growth, advertising, high-rise building, 
etc are costly in energy for their operation and 
maintenance, but favor economic vitality as long as 
their role as pump primers is successful in 
increasing the flow of energy over and beyond 
their special cost. Intensely concentrated densities 
of power use have been economic in the past 
because their activities have accelerated the 
system’s growth during a period when there were 
new energy sources to encompass. 
= 
; 
J 
~« 
19. DURING PERIODS WHEN EXPANSION OF 
ENERGY SOURCES IS NOT POSSIBLE, THEN 
- 
~THE MANY HIGH DENSITY AND GROWTH 
PROMOTING POLICIES AND STRUCTURES 
BECOME AN ENERGY LIABILITY BECAUSE 
THEIR HIGH ENERGY COST IS NO LONGER 
ACCELERATING ENERGY YIELD. 
The pattern of urban concentration and the policies 
of economic growth stimulation that were necessary 
and successful in energy growth competition periods 
are soon to shift. There will be a premium against 
the use of pump priming characteristics since there 
will be no more unpumped energy to prime. What 
did work before will no longer work and the 
Opposite becomes the pattern that is economically 
successful. All this makes sense and is commonplace 
to those who study various kinds of ecosystems, 
but the economic advisors will be sorely pressed 
and lose some confidence until they learn about 
the steady state and its criteria for economic 
success. Countries with great costly investments in 
concentrated economic activity, excessive trans- 
portation customs, and subsidies to industrial 
expansion will have severe stresses. Even now the 
countries who have not gone so far in rapid 
successional growth are setting out to do so at the 
very time when their former more steady state 
culture is about to begin to become a more favored 
economic state comparatively. 
20. SYSTEMS IN NATURE ARE KNOWN THAT 
SHIFT FROM FAST GROWTH TO STEADY 
STATE GRADUALLY WITH PROGRAMMATIC 
SUBSTITUTION, BUT OTHER INSTANCES ARE 
KNOWN IN WHICH THE SHIFT IS MARKED BY 
TOTAL CRASH AND DESTRUCTION OF THE 
GROWTH SYSTEM BEFORE THE EMERGENCE 
OF THE SUCCEEDING STEADY STATE 
REGIME. 
Because energies and monies for research, 
development, and thinking are abundant only 
during growth and not during energy leveling or 
decline, there is a great danger that means for 
developing the steady state will not be ready when 
they are needed, which may be no more than 5 
years away but probably more like 20 years. (If 
fusion energy is a large net energy yielder, there 
may be a later growth period when the intensity of 
human power development begins to affect and 
reduce the main life support systems of the oceans, 
atmospheres, and general biosphere.) 
The humanitarian customs of the earth’s countries 
now in regard to medical aid, famine, and epidemic 
are such that no country is allowed to develop 
major food and other critical energy shortage 
because the others rush in their reserves. This 
practice had insured that no country will starve 
in a major way until we all starve together when 
the reserves are no longer there. 
Chronic disease was evolved with man as his 
regulator, being normally as a device for infant 
mortality and merciful old age death. It provided on 
the average an impersonal and accurate energy 
testing of body vitalities, adjusting the survival rate 
to the energy resources. Even in the modern period 
of high energy medical miracles, the energy for 
total medical care systems is a function of the 
total country’s energies, and as energies per capita 
fall again so will the energy for medicine per capita, 
and the role of disease will again develop its larger 
role in the population regulation system. Chronic 
disease at its best was and is a very energy- 
inexpensive regulator. 
Epidemic disease is something else. Nature’s systems 
normally use the principle of diversity to eliminate 
epidemics. Vice versa, epidemic disease is nature’s 
device to eliminate monoculture, which may be 
inherently unstable. Man is presently allowed the 
special high yields of various monocultures 
including his own high density ‘population, his paper 
source in pine trees, and his miracle rice only so 
long as he has special energies to protec 
artificial ways and substitute them for d 
would restore the high diversity system, u 
the more stable flow of energy. 
The terrible possibility that is before us is tha 
there will be the continued insistence on growt 
with our last energies by the economic adviso: 
that don’t understand, so that there are no rese 
S 
with which to make a change, to hold order, and to 
cushion a period when populations must drop. = 
Disease reduction of man’ and of his plant production 
systems could be planetary and sudden if the ratio 
of population to food and medical systems is pushed 
to the maximum at a time of falling net energy. At 
some point the great gaunt towers of nuclear ener iy 
installations, oil drilling, and urban cluster will = 
stand empty in the wind for lack of enough fuel — ¢. 
technology to keep them running. A-new cycle of 
| 
dinosaurs will have passed its way. Man will survive 
as he reprograms readily to that which the ecosystem 
needs of him so long as he does not forget who is — 
serving who. What is done well for the ecosystem 
is good for man. However, the cultures that say 
only what is good for man is good for nature may 
pass and be forgotten like the rest. 
ot 
7 —— 
There was a famous theory in paleoecology called 
orthogenesis which suggested that some of the _ 
great animals of the past were part of systems 
that were locked into evolutionary mechanisms by 
which the larger ones took over from smaller ones. 
The mechanisms then became so fixed that they 
carried the size trend beyond the point of survival, 
whereupon the species went extinct. Perhaps this is 
the main question of ecology, economics, and 
energy. Has the human system frozen its direction 
— 
into an orthogenetic path toward cultural crash, or 
is the great creative activity of the current energy- 
rich world already sensing the need for change? 
__ 
Are alternatives already being tested by our youth so 
they will be ready for the gradual transition toa 
fine steady state that carries the best of our recent 
cultural evolution into new, more miniaturized, 
more dilute, and more delicate ways of man-nature? 
In looking ahead, the United States and some other 
countries may be lucky to be forced by changing 
energy availabilities to examine themselves, level — ey 
their growth, and change their culture towards the 
steady state early enough so as to be ready with — 
some tested designs before the world as a whole is 
forced to this. 
A most-fearful sight is the behavior 
— 
of Germany and Japan who have little native 
: 
energies and rush crazily into boom and bust 
__ + 
economy on temporary and borrowed pipelines _ 
and tankers, throwing out what was stable and safe 
— 
to become rich for a short period; monkey see, 
a 
monkey do. Consider also Sweden that once before 
boomed and busted in its age of Baltic Ships while 
cutting its virgin timber. Later it was completely 
stable on water power and agriculture, but now 
after a few years of growth became like the rest, 
another bunch of engines on another set of oil 
? 
flows, a culture that may not be long for this 
ie 
world. 
eet 
What is the general answer? Eject economic 
oe 
expansionism, stop growth, use available energies 
— 
for cultural conversion to steady state, seek OUT aaa 
the condition now that will come anyway, but by 
© 
our service be our biosphere’s handmaiden anew. 
The excellent special issue of Ambio on energy in which 
= 
this article appeared, costs $4 from Universitesforlaget, 
: 
ro. 
Box 307, Blindern, Oslo 3, Norway. 
f 
; 
