_ 
Deschooling Society 
_ Very few parents look at teachers and schools with Ilich’s 
true understanding of their powerful influence within our 
society today. He gives a devastating analysis of the ways 
_ In which educational institutions act to minimize learning 
and maximize conformity and social stratification. When 
we look for positive moves, are I/lich’s solutions practical, 
or in fact real, given the current state of education? 
Deschooling Society clarifies many of the problems, but 
if readers are anxiously looking for ready answers, they 
might be in trouble. Or is this what Illich meant to achieve? 
If so, he has done a right-on job. 
—Diane and Eddie Grayson 
Deschooling Society 
Ivan Illich 
1970; 186pp. 
$1 .25 postpaid 
from: 
Harper & Row 
General Books 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
We have come to realize that for most men the right to learn 
is curtailed by the obligation to attend school. 
School initiates, too, the Myth of Unending Consumption. 
This modern myth is grounded in the belief that process 
inevitably produces something of value and, therefore, 
production necessarily produces demand. School teaches 
us that instruction produces learning. The existence of 
schools produces the demand for schooling. Once we have 
learned to need school, all our activities tend to take the 
shape of client relationships to other specialized institutions. 
Once the self-taught man or woman has been discredited, 
all nonprofessional activity is rendered suspect. In school 
we are taught that valuable learning is the result of 
attendance; that the value of learning increases with the 
amount of input; and, finally, that this value can be 
measured and documented by grades and certificates. 
In fact, learning is the human activity which least needs 
manipulation by others. Most learning is not the result of 
instruction. It is rather the result of unhampered participation 
“in a meaningful setting. Most people learn best by being 
“with it,” yet school makes them identify their personal, 
cognitive growth with elaborate planning and manipulation. 
“A much more radical approach would be to create a “bank” 
for skill exchange. Each citizen would be given a basic credit 
with which to acquire fundamental skills. Beyond that 
minimum, further credits would go to those who earned 
them by teaching, whether they served as models in 
organized skill centers or did so privately at home or on 
the playground. Only those who had taught others for an 
equivalent amount of time would have a claim on the time 
of more advanced teachers. An entirely new elite would be 
Promoted, an elite of those who earned their education by 
sharing it. 
No More Public School 
A simple, informative guide for folks interested in setting up 
their own alternative programs, Includes information on 
curriculum, environment, finances, legal status, etc. 
Practical, rooted in experience, an invaluable aid to people 
who want to focus positive energy into building new 
programs; programs which are open and flexible, yet 
productive. 
—Marcia Perlstein 
No More Public School 
(A Manual for Innovators) 
Hal Bennett 
1972; 137pp. 
$2.95 Postpaid 
from: 
Random House, Inc./ 
The Bookworks 
457 Hahn Rd. 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth — 
You may feel that you're alone in your desire to make a 
school. Your friends, though sympathetic with your views, 
have no children of their own and so can’t offer much more 
than moral support. So you need to get together with other 
parents like yourself. Here’s what you can do: 
Make a simple ad. It might go like this: 
SCHOOL PROBLEMS? 
Parents. Teachers. Are you interested in a small private 
school for children from five to twelve years old? Low 
or no tuition? Relaxed, open classroom. Let’s get 
together. (Your name, address, and telephone number.) 
Escape from Childhood 
!n his latest book John Holt concentrates on the rights of 
children, and their effects on adults. He knows very well that 
“modern childhood is hard on adults as well as children, that 
it is as hard to raise a child as to be a child, and is getting 
harder all the time.” The book examines childhood as an 
institution with its own rules, roles and psychological 
repercussions. The chapters on the ways adults see and 
threaten children (e.g., “love objects”, needing “help”, or 
being “‘cute“’) are outstanding. In schools, this adult 
attitude becomes even more demeaning and manipulative 
when children are treated as possessions—— my students, my 
class, my group. 
Holt provides a readable concise overview of children’s rights: 
voting, legal, sex, drugs, travel, financial, etc., and discusses 
steps that adults and children might take to secure those 
rights. He will surely anger those who feel that eight year 
olds are too young to determine their own destinies and 
that fourteen year olds cannot think for themselves. | would 
highly recommend the volume to the uninformed and to 
those who think they are informed. 
—Woody Clark 
Escape from Childhood 
John Holt 
1974; 286pp. 
$7.95 postpaid 
from: 
E.P. Dutton & Co., Inc. 
201 Park Ave. South 
New York, NY 10003 
or Whole Earth 
For many reasons children need a much larger network of 
people to relate to. The small family is so often unhelpful 
or destructive because it is so small. The relationships are 
too intense, too much is always at stake. Many parents find 
if hard to say no to their children even though they say it 
much too often, because it seems to threaten their ideal 
relationship with the child. They have to get angry before 
they can say no, and then they are doubly angry at the child 
for ‘‘making” them say no. The family is so dependent on 
these highpowered feelings, so shut in on itself, so non- 
involved with others or with the community, so devoid of 
Purposes outside of itself, that it is fragile, easily threatened 
by a quarrel. 
Almost all adults, men and women, use children as what we 
might call love objects. We think we have a right, or even a 
duty, to bestow on them “‘love,”’ visible and tangible signs 
of affection, whenever we want, however we want, and 
whether they like it or not. In this we exploit them, use 
them for our purposes. This, more than anything else, is 
what we use children and childhood for—— to provide us 
with love objects. This is why we adults find children worth 
owning and the institution of childhood worth preserving, 
in spite of their great trouble and expense. 
Flowers Can Even Bloom in Schools 
Each article in Marcia Perlstein’s edited volumn is short, 
concise, readable and very telling. The book is a real 
contribution to the growing literature on “humanistic- 
existential education”. The overriding theme is summed up 
in a quotation from James S. Coleman: “Among the more 
general questions we need to ask is how it is that the young 
become adults?” In one way or another each author addresses 
this fundamental issue. 
There are some problems with integrating all the material: 
the meld of humanist/existential philosophy with educational 
psychology /communication theory is elusive. This aside out 
of the way, anyone interested in educational reform would 
be advised to read Flowers. /t is an excellent catalyst for 
change in “schooling”, with the potential of striking a 
responsive chord in any parent, administrator, teacher or 
student. 
: 
—Woody Clark 
Bloom in Schools 
Plawers Can Even 
Flowers Can Even 
Bloom in Schools 
Marcia Perlstein, Ed. 
1972; 204pp. 
$6.00 postpaid 
from: 
Westinghouse Learning 
Press 
770 Lucerne Way 
Sunnyvale, CA 94086 
or Whole Earth 
‘Somewhere Else 
4 
For those who don’t want to, or shouldn’‘t go to college, thi:
resource catalog lists and describes alternative learning place 
under two main divisions, centers and networks. Centers & |
include such categories as alternative futures centers, media 
centers, spiritual centers, and social and political change 
centers. Under networks are listed learning exchanges, 
alternative vocations networks, overseas work /study network 
and much else. Women’s centers and networks are also. 
included. Most organizations are described in enough detail 
to get a good idea of how they operate. A rich and very 
: 
diversified source of information for those interested ine 
alternative places to be and learn. 
k 
Si 
—Sylvia Jacobs 
Somewhere Else 
sh Fy 
(A Living-Learning Catalog) 
Edited by Center for 
|
Curriculum Design 
zi 
1973; 213pp. 
|
$3.00 postpaid 
from: 
The Swallow Press, Inc. 
1139 S. Wabash Ave. 
Chicago, |1L 60605 
or Whole Earth 
Kogo Studio/Gallery 
32 Greene Street 
New York, NY 10013 
(212) 966-1408 
Yoshiko Kogo, also a member of the New School faculty, 
runs a series of classes in her well-equipped studio/gallery 
in designing and printing fabrics by hand. 
‘ 
KOGO STUDIO/ 
GALLERY 
She teaches hand-painting, batik, tie-dye, and block printing 
on fabric. The classes are offered in monthly sessions 
: 
beginning on the first Tuesday of each month. Tuition is 
$30 a month (four sessions, one day per week) including lab 
fee, excluding individual art supplies such as brushes and 
fabrics. The $5 registration fee enables you to take any set 
of classes as many times in a year as you wish without 
Paying a registration fee each time. 
Sic high schools 
PRENTICESHIP 
Pacific High School’s 
Apprenticeship Service Program 
12100 Skyline Blvd. 
Los Gatos, CA 95030 
(408) 867-2260 
Carolyn Kaye, who founded ASP, says in a recent letter. ““Wé 
want to help people from 14-18 years old find an alternative 
to learning in the conventional ways (schools). We want to’ 
help provide contact between apprentice and master, person| 
and mentor, learner and teacher all over the country. When 
someone tells us what he/she would like to do, we will let 
them know if we know of any people who could help and/o 
try to find people. We will send the people we refer them 
to a copy of his/her letter of application....Itisupto 
~ 
the apprentice to get in touch with anyone we suggest if he 
thinks he would be interested in learning with any of them 
.... The arrangements are up to the two individuals. 
1 *,... We are primarily interested in situations where the 
apprentice can trade some work for learning, although in _ 
some cases the teacher may ask for a fee or money for — 
supplies—— or the student may be able to do enough work 
that he should be paid. These are all things that the two 
should work out before starting and keep evaluating 
if 
necessary as they work together. If people want to be enroll4 
in school and working toward a high school diploma while 
they are doing an apprenticeship(s) the cost is $200. 
Reductions are available. For those who do not want to be 
enrolled the cost is $5, if we are instrumental in helping you 
find someone to work with.” 
Get in touch with Sarah G. Bernhardt or Dianna H. Teague. 
They have contacts with teachers and people in 29 states 
and Canada, so far. 
F 
The New Schools Exchange Newsletter 4 
/t must have been around 1969, when the country’s 
alternative schools movement was peaking and people were 
drawing long on Holt, Kohl, et al that the New Schools 
Exchange Newsletter came into being and to this day it has 
kept the faith. Read just one issue and if you’ve become 
disappointed or jaded, you find yourself perking again, ideas 
streaming, sap rising. It’s still got the spirit, but it’s practical, 
too, and has maintained three very useful sections: People 
(teachers seeking jobs), Places (schools seeking teachers, 
students) and Good Things (curriculum enrichments and 
tips on what’s going on all over). A year’s subscription 
includes a valuable annual directory of alternative schools. 
Once in-awhile they throw in a bonus like the 1973 “Garde 
for All Guide to a Greener, Happier Community.” 
4 
—Heidi Seney 
= 
The New Schools 
bony, alae 
gis 
New 
Schools 
Exchange 
~ 
Exchange Newsletter 
put os 
$10/yr (bi-monthly) 
St. Paris, OH 43072 
