ACCESS TO POETRY 
‘by Anne Waldman 
St. Marks Poetry Project 
33 St. Marks Place 
New York, NY 10003 
Since “schools’’ of poetry really don’t exist today, access to 
current poetry is through the individual poets themselves. 
_ Access for most part 4 ways: 
readings, records & tapes, books, 
magazines. Hearing a poet's works, in some ways the most 
rewarding, via live readings and this phenomena has mush- 
roomed in the past 10 years. Nature of poetry is evanescent. 
The inspiration or food one receives is not a commodity so 
the poet at a basic level has to survive by means other than his 
soul’s trade. Remember Lew Welch saying when he went off 
to disappear Why can’t a poet be treated like a carpenter in 
this society? So this misfit quality of poetry makes it very 
Precious, keeps it very pure, although a poet's life is often 
difficult. Thus we are lucky to witness poets read their own 
work or the work of the ‘‘muse” speaking through them, which 
brought alive has the added power of unmasking, elucidating 
mystifying, hypnotizing, prophecizing and we can also hear 
& feel the music inherent in the words. Poets are the shamans 
and shamanesses of the tribe who can purge their listeners, 
draw untapped areas to the surface, shape them into magical 
language and work spiritual energy transference to carry the 
whole room higher! 
Hearing poets is possible in many colleges throughout the 
country (find out what poets are visiting nearest you) as well 
as certain special programs in cities. For nine years The 
Poetry Project at St. Mark’s Church-In-The-Bowery in New 
York City’s Lower East Side has been sponsoring weekly 
readings by the likes of Allen Ginsberg, Robert Bly, Ted 
Berrigan, Diane DiPrima, Anselm Hollo, Jerome Rothenberg, 
John Wickers, Joanne Kyger, Ed Sanders, Dick Gallup, John 
Ashbery, William -Burroughs & Charley Plymell in addition to 
numerous younger, lesser-known poets with imagination and 
energy, as well as open readings, free experimental writing 
workshops run by poets, a lecture series with experts on 
Cybernetics, Anthropology, Dream Study, and also providing 
a publishing center for countless small magazines and 
Pamphlets. The Project is under the direction of poet Anne 
Waldman but is run more or less cooperatively by all the 
Poets who work there and live in the community. Minimal 
funding is provided through the New York State Council 
On The Arts and private foundations & individuals, but mostly 
it’s the devotion of the artists which makes it tick. The 
Poetry Project publishes a monthly Newsletter edited by 
Bill MacKay which disseminates information about 
poetry events, new books & magazines and activities at 
The Project, and includes poems, and letters to the editor. 
Available for a season (Sept.— July) by sending $1 to The 
Poetry Project Newsletter, St. Mark’s Church In-the-Bowery, 
NYC 10003. Publications emanating from The Project are 
THE WORLD (one of the oldest extant mimeo magazines 
now in its 29th issue which sells for $2 tho copies are scarce 
since less than 1,000 printed), ADVENTURES IN POETRY 
magazine and books edited by Larry Fagin and publishing 
among others Jack Spicer, Fielding Dawson, Frank O’Hara 
(catalog available upon request c/o The Project), WORKSHOP 
and UNNATURAL ACTS (Edited by Bernadette Mayer and 
Ed Friedman), TELEPHONE and ANGEL HAIR pamphlets. 
Scheduled readings are held on Wednesday nights at 8:30 
(often big bashs with crowds of over 1,000 featuring 30 
or more poets) and Monday nights at 8, and Open Readings 
are the first Monday of each month. Admission is by 
contribution, 
an anachronism in NYC where it costs $ to 
breathe. There’s an interesting poetry series at San Fran- 
cisco’s Intersection, 756 Union Street, which has been 
blooming for 3-years and has featured Phil Whalen, Michael 
McClure, Lewis MacAdams, Tom Veitch, Kenneth Rexroth, 
Andrei Codrescu, Lewis Warsh, to name a few. . 
. By writing 
to the above address one can get on the mailing list. 
Back in New York an organization called Poets & Writers at 
201 West 54th Street publishes 
a DIRECTORY OF AMERICAN 
POETS including the names & addresses of over 1,300 poets and 
contemporary writers throughout the country. Costs $4, 
and also includes a listing of administrators and organizations 
that sponsor readings. Most helpful to poets, but maybe 
you'd just like to write a letter to Robert Lowell or Terry 
Southern. 
Most exciting poetry records emanate from Giorno Poetry 
Systems Institute, Inc. John Giorno is the wizard-mastermind 
behind Dial-A-Poem which operated through the NY phone 
company 5 years ago but faced endless censorship & bigtime 
red-tape hassles. The first double-album “THE DIAL-A- 
- POEM POETS” acetates the voices of Robert Creeley, Jim 
Carroll (young New York Street punk), John Sinclair (of 
White Panther Party & 2 joint bust fame in Ann Arbor), 
Joe Brainard, Taylor Mead, Lenore Kandel, David Henderson, 
William Burroughs, the ubiquitous Allen Ginsberg & a dozen 
more & sells for $5.98. Second album entitled ‘’DIS- 
CONNECTED” has some of the same & more: 
Michael 
McClure, Ron Padgett, John Giorno, Diane DiPrima, Anne 
Waldman, Maureen Owen, Michael Brownstein. 
For $10.50 
one can purchase the 4 record set. Write to Giorno Poetry 
Systems Institute, Inc., 222 Bowery, NYC 10012. The 
Institute-exists to “investigate the place of contact between 
poet & audience” and to garner support for same. More discs 
by individual poets are in the offing. 
Occasionally one comes across something worthwhile on the 
radio (WBAI in NYC and KPFA in Berkeley), but possibilities 
of poetry have yet to be explored via air waves. 
Hip bookstores are the major source of poetry plenty, some 
specializing 
in “underground” items more than others. The 
‘Gotham Book Mart on NYC’s 41 W 47th Street and Phoenix 
- Bookshop run by Bob Wilson (famous for his rare & excellent 
Gertrude Stein collection) at 18 Cornelia Street are old 
Gianfranco 
Mantegna 
Anne Waldman introducing William Burroughs at St. Mark’s 
Poetry Project. 
standbys. 
Elias Wilentz’s 8th St. Bookshop at 17 W. 8th St. 
is a Greenwich Village landmark and The East Side Bookshop 
~ 
at 30 St. Marks Place is very helpful. Out in Berkeley, 
; 
Serendipity (1790 Shattuck Ave., Berkeley 94709) can get you 
almost anything you want. Catalogues for all the above 
; 
available upon request. Of course there are numerous other 
bookstores across the country (Whole Cosmep Catalogue 
available from PO Box 1056, Paradise, California 95969 
can provide lists) which have done great service to the 
little magazines & books community—— Cleveland’s Asphodel, 
Philadelphia's Middle Earth Books, Epstein’s in towa City, 
Shakespeare & Co., in Madison, Wisconsin, Ferlinghetti’s 
y 
City Lights in S.F. to mention just a few. . 
. Distribution-has 
improved with advent of Book People at 2970 Seventh St., 
Berkeley 94710. 
In Canada try BOOKMOBILE at 403 Huron 
— 
St. (rear), Toronto M5S 2G5, same address for COACH HOUSE 
books which are quite engaging on the whole & handsomely 
produced. Whole Cosmep Catalogue, previously mentioned, 
also a fine directory for just about all the information around 
the small press scene. 
Magazines worth checking out are Bill Berkson’s BIG SKY 
coming out of Bolinas at Box 272, Bolinas, CA 94924, 
Pierre Joris’ SIXPACK, the current issue spotlighting the 
much-loved and now deceased Paul Blackburn, (address: 
Box 158, Lake Toxaway, North Carolina 28747), Jerome 
Rothenberg’s ALCHERINGA featuring ethnopoetics, 
Alice Notley’s CHICAGO (834 Waveland Ave., Chicago, 
IL), ““L” magazine (which features work of more “abstract” 
Poets like Clark Coolidge) at 2021 Francisco, No. 301, 
Berkeley, CA 94701, Kathy Acker’s strange Black Tarantula 
“newsletters” from 46 Belvedere, San Francisco 94117. And 
don’t forget the sensational BEAN NEWS!—— a hilarious & 
profound “news” sheet which resembles The Manchester 
Guardian and is masterminded by Ed Dorn of great GUN- 
SLINGER fame (address: 2741, Geary Blvd., San Francisco, 
94118). There’s so much going on in poetry publishing, it’s 
impossible to sort out here but there are some very fine 
small and semi-commercial presses which consistently publish 
quality poets & fine books. 
Lita Hornick’s KULCHUR 
FOUNDATION (261 Fifth Ave., NYC 10016) has published 
Joe Brainard, Rochelle Owens, John Perreault, Kenward 
Elmslie, Ron Padgett & Ted Berrigan in collaboration, Kenneth 
Koch, Carter Ratcliff & numerous others in large handsome 
collections with gorgeous covers by Ed Rusha, Alex Katz & 
others. Send for list. Corinth Books has long been pioneering 
in poetry—— publishing early books by Allen Ginsberg, Le Roi 
Jones (Imamu Baraka), Lewis Warsh, Gary Snyder, Joel 
Oppenheimer, Barbara GueSt, Peter Schjeldahl and many more. 
| 
Something Else Press (West Glover, VT) has published 
Emmett Williams, Gertrude Stein, John Giorno 
to mention 
just a few. Black Sparrow, PO Box 25603, Los Angeles, CA 
90025 has an exceptional series—— gorgeous books by 
Michael McClure, 
Tom Clark, Diane Wakoski, Charles Bukowski, 
and hundreds more. 
The Institute Of Further Studies, Box 482, Canton, NY 
13617 has published wonderful books by Ed Sanders 
: 
(check out EGYPTIAN HIEROGLYPHS), Lewis MacAdams 
and others. 
Donald Allen’s Grey Fox Press and Ferlinghetti’s City Lights 
continue to flood the market with goodies. 
There’s a hot new Press on the boards publishing Edwin Denby, 
Frank O’Hara & Allen Ginsberg (Full Court Press, 249 
Bleeker, NYC). 
There is such a sheer variety of individual poets working in 
the U.S. today it’s virtually impossible to keep track of them 
all. There are no schools as such with resident bards with 
the stature of Charles Olson, although Anselm Hollo, Ted 
Berrigan, Ed Dorn, Robert Creeley and Robert Kelly are 
out their in the academies making huge waves. However, 
most young & eager-for-a-hearing poets make their ways to 
S.F. and N.Y.C. to try out their work before astute audiences 
or submit their poetry voraciously to the little magazines who 
are responsive to what’s NEW today and not subject, 
naturally, to the commercial imperative. But groups (defined 
by locale rather than necessary similarity in the work itself) 
keep in touch through interest in each other’s work and there’s 
a vast exchange going on at this very moment through the 
mails, through books & magazines, cassets, records and so on. 
The fact that there are no “Schools” is more a reflection of 
the kaleidoscopic society we live in rather than any narrow- 
ness in quality of the work itself. 
Books by the following poets are consistently inspiring and 
provide much brainfood: Gary Snyder, Frank O'Hara, Allen 
Ginsberg, Michael McClure, Gregory Corso, William 
Burroughs, John Wieners, John Ashbery, Philip Whalen, 
Kenneth Koch, Lorenzo Thomas, James Schuyler, Kenward 
ae 
_ THE POETRY ROOM (Lewis MacAdams) Harper & Row. 
LIVING AT THE MOVIES by Jim Carroll (Grossman/Viking| 
- 
by Larry Rivers. 
att 
2 
Elmslie, Jack Kerouac, novels of Harry Mathews, John 
Giorno, Ed Dorn, Joanne Kyger, David Henderson, Clark 
Coolidge, Ted Berrigan, Tom Clark, Diane DiPrima. All 
Jerry Rothenberg’s anthologies: 
AMERICA: 
A PROPHEC 
SHAKIN THE PUMKIN, TECHNICIANS OF THE SACRED 
Andrei Codrescu, Ishmael Reed, Michael Brownstein (for 
' 
strange Sufi-Borgesesque stories see BRAINSTORMS, pub. 
by Bobbs-Merill) 
Specifically check out: 
MOVING by Bernadette Mayer (Angel Hair Books, Box 257, 
Peter Stuyvesant Station, NYC 10009 $2) which goes beyond 
Stein. 
= 
\ 
NEIL YOUNG by Tom Clark (Coach House) 
CITIES by Robert Kelly (Frontier Press)—— finely honed 
exquisite prose-story. 
WHERE | HANG MY HAT by Dick Gallup (Harper & Row) 
|! REMEMBER series by Joe Brainard (Angel Hair Books, see 
above) 
i 
SNORING IN NEW YORK by dance-critic Edwin Denby 
(Angel Hair Books) 
THE LUIS ARMED STORY 
by Tom Veitch (Full Court Pres 
249 basa St.. NYC 10014) and EAT THIS! (Angel Hair 
Books 
: 
ey 
ash 
opto 
ae 
INCIDENTALS IN THE DAY WORLD 
by exciting young 
poet Alice Notley (Angel Hair Books) and PHOEBE LIGHT 
by same (BIG SKY BOOKS). 
: 
M4 
COUNTRY RUSH by Maureen Owen (Adventures in Poetry 
Books) 
: 
CLEOPATRA by Jennifer Bartlett (Adventures 
In Poetry 
Books) 
es 
ie 
Old standby anthologies include: 
AN ANTHOLOGY OF NEW YORK POETS (Random House 
Shapiro & Padgett, Eds.) 
: 
: 
; 
THE WORLD ANTHOLOGY & ANOTHER WORLD (Poems 
from the St. Mark’s Poetry Project, Bobbs-Merill). 
— 
A CONTROVERSY OF POETS (Ed. Paris Leary & Robert 
Kelly) 
CATERPILLAR ANTHOLOGY (Ed. by Clayton Eshleman) 
THE YOUNG AMERICAN POETS (Ed. Paul Carroll - 
Follett) 
FLOATING BEAR anthology (Ed. Diane Di Prima & 
Leroi Jones) 
Don Allen’s Grove Anthology & for poetics, try 
THE POETICS OF THE NEW AMERICAN POETRY (Ed 
by Don Allen & Warren Tallman) 
All this just a sampling. 
There’s exhilerating poetry to feed us for years long after our 
other supplies diminish. 
One significant contemporary American poet was left out of 
Anne Waldman’s list. Anne Waldman. 
—SB 
| THE POETRY PROJECT NEWSLETTER 
No. 13 
1 March 1974 
| 
Bill Mac Kay, editor 
St. Mark's Church, 2nd Avenue 
& Tenth St., New York 
10003. 
“Light clarity avocado salad in the morning”. The Selected 
Poems of Frank O’Hara (Random House, $3.46) is a feast, 
disarmingly beautiful. Once again, the loving, invisible 
s 
fingers of editor Donald Allen leaves their mark, but no stai?. 
A generous & varied collection, graced by a fine cover collag¢ 
—e@ 
Just out, Jim Harrison’s Letters to Yesenin (Sumac, $2.45) W 
‘overdue, but worth the wait. 
. Letters, then postscript, then 
poems. 
It lingers. 
At this very moment, Larry Fagin is in his wretched hovel 
typing frantically, spending the last vestige of his sanity as 
he attempts to meet a March 30 publication date for 
— 
Adventures in Poetry No. 11. If Larry’s typing 
is half as 
ood as the poetry, the issue will be a classic. 
Featured are 
ong works by Coolid e, Dawson, McClure, Padgett, 
Schuyler Towle, Waldman, Wieners, and others. One dollar 
| 
and 
fifty at the usual bookstores, 
3 
Poems letters stories articles by to about him: Charles 
Bukowski encompasses the latest issue of Second Coming. 
Other contributors include Harold Norse, Jack Micheline, 
Linda King, but clearly Buk, bearded, 
-slicked-down, 
beer bottle in hand, is the man they all came to wrestle. 
The whole carnival for two dollars, at bookstores or from 
P.O. Box 31246, San Francisco, CA 94131. 
| 
cs 
