sco Zen Center was founded by Suzuki-roshi, 
Master. The current teacher is Baker-roshi. The 
also includes Tassajara Zen Mountain Center, 
Ich Farm. There is a guest student Program, 
possible to live at the San Francisco Center 
4.25 
a day. Write in advance. 
ation: Wind Bell, three times a year, subscription $3.00. 
ains news of all three centers, lectures by Baker- 
e late Suzuki- roshi, interviews, translations. 
| by Weatherhill, 149 Madison Ave., New York, 
This is the book on Zen meditation, and a living 
ice in America. 
It consists of informal talks given 
i-roshi. 
It not only tells you how to start sitting, 
ep sitting. The meditation is that of Soto Zen, 
‘just sitting, and emphasizes working with the 
One student may say it will cover the whole state, 
and another may say it will cover the whole earth, 
ut I would rather say, as Nanyo Echu said, “‘Any 
tone 
will be good enough.”’ Even a small stone 
good enough for me. 
You know, which do 
~~ the whole world or a small stone? I 
prefer a small stone which we can carry or 
nove. The small stone is you yourself which 
vers everything. If you think the whole big 
universe is yourself, you will be lost. It does not 
make any sense. 
You need one small room for 
ourself. That is very true. When you find 
ourself really in the small room, as one of your 
ioms, then there is you yourself and the whole 
universe is there. The whole universe makes sense 
0 you. Without your room, the whole universe 
loes not make any 
sense. 
—Suzuki-roshi 
where she was the head of a temple, as well as head 
| Foreign Guest Department, an organization that 
ialized in training foreigners in Zen. 
ission Society concentrates on training for the Buddhist 
iesthood. However, they also have facilities for guests, 
treats and sesshins. 
lication: Journal of the Zen Mission Society. As a 
orresponding member’’, $12 per year, you receive twelve 
issu 
of the journal and correspond with Kennet-roshi 
re 
ing your practice. 
elling Water By the River, A Manual of Zen Training, 
ennett, Vintage Books, $2.45, contains translations 
/ Zen ceremonies, and the first translations of Keizan 
rom the introduction 
by Chisan Koho, ‘’The people 
ern Countries also, if Zen is ever to reach them 
must color it for themselves just as the Japanese 
will Zen be reborn in the West. Like the Buddhist 
he new Zen will be neither completely new, 
the 
same stream of Truth, nor completely old, as it 
ave new forms, ways, customs and culture. . 
. this book 
a manual suitable for Western people who are sincerely 
ie Zen but not trying to copy Eastern ways and 
a Rinzai Zen center. Rinzai uses koan, question-and- 
her; he has adapted koan practice to American 
There are Sesshins, which can be attended by 
mbers. Joshu Roshi is in the LA area for alternating 
1th periods. The rest of the time he holds Dai- 
. Write to the Cimarron Zen Center. Affiliates are: 
eke 
‘ sIdy (Cal.) Zen Center, Vancouver (B.C.) Zen Center, 
‘Redondo 
Beach (Cal.) Zen Center, and Jemez Bodhi 
e Ch‘an (Zen) center. The teacher is Master 
old Mountain Monastery is open to everyone; 
people get up very early in the morning. 
Publication: Vajra Bodhi Sea, contains talks by Master Hsuan 
Hua, plus translations of Chinese texts, plus interviews and 
biographies of students. 
Diamond Sangha 
A Zen Buddhist Society 
Maui Zendo 
R.R. 1 Box 702 
Haiku, Hawaii 96708 
(808) 572-8163 
Koko An Zendo 
2119 Kaloa Way 
Honolulu, Hawaii 96822 
(808) 946-0666 
Yamada Roshi visits from Japan. Robert Aitken is the 
Director. There is a real vitality to this group’s practice, 
which has been especially sympathetic to ‘‘alternative 
culture’’ people. They are crowded, so write before 
showing up. 
Publication: Diamond Sangha, especially valuable to people 
interested in Zen communities. Gary Snyder, and others 
not living in the community contribute to this valuable and 
enjoyable journal. 
The Zen Center 
7 Arnold Park 
Rochester, New York 14607 
(716) 473-9180 
Roshi Philip Kapleau trained in Zen for thirteen years in 
Japan. 
His teacher, Yasutani Roshi, taught an “integral” 
Zen grounded in both Rinzai and Soto. Koan study is 
usual for more experienced students. 
It is necessary to attend 
one of the Introductory Workshops before you can apply for 
membership. Sesshins are open only to regular members. 
There are about 25 “affiliate groups” in different parts of the 
country who welcome new students. 
Publication: 
Zen Bow, talks by Roshi Kapleau, Yasutani 
Roshi, other articles on Zen Practice. Voluntary subscription 
rate $3.00 a year. 
Books: Three Pillars of Zen, Beacon Press, by Philip Kapleau, 
gives a very complete and clear picture of the type of 
meditation practiced here. 
It also includes Yasutani-roshi’s 
Introductory Lectures in Za zen, which are pure gold, as well 
as interviews Yasutani Roshi held with students during 
Sesshin. They are also first person descriptions of what people 
have gone through during Sesshin, experiencing ‘‘kensho”’ or 
satori. The Wheel of Death, Harper & Row, also by Philip 
Kapleau. A collection of writings from Zen Buddhist and 
other sources on death-rebirth-dying. 
Zen Studies Society, Inc. 
223 East 67th St. 
New York, NY 10021 
(212) 628-9652 
New York Zendo-Shobo Ji - Rinzai Zen Buddhist Temple. 
Eido Shimano Roshi founder and teacher. Practice by 
membership. Thursday evening meetings open to the 
public, and one can apply to become a regular member 
from this. Sesshins not open. 
New York Zen Center 
440 West End Avenue 
New York, New York 10024 
(212) 724-4172 
Reverend Kando Nakajima is a Soto Zen teacher, who has 
also studied Theravadin Buddhism in Ceylon. ‘“The purpose 
of the Center is to provide a place for Zen Meditation where 
anyone wishing to sit regularly, listen to a lecture froma 
Zen priest, or come to sesshin once a month, may attend.” 
Sesshins are open to anyone who has previously practiced 
zazen. 
Publication: Zen Life, three times a year. 
A complete list of Zen groups has been compiled by Ronald 
W. Hadley, Box 83, Norwich, Vermont 05055, under the 
title A List of Organizations For the Practice of Zen 
Buddhism In the United States . 
The typescript is 102 pages 
long, and includes extensive information of each group. It has 
been xeroxed and costs $5.80 postpaid. 
VAJRAY ANA CENTERS 
Lamaist Buddhist Monastery of America 
140 East Third St. 
Howell, New Jersey 07731 
~ 
Geshe Wangyal, who has been teaching here since 1955, 
gives a lecture the first Sunday of each month. There are 
also three other Geshes teaching at the Monastery. The 
Monastery serves the interests of a local Kalmuck community, 
as well as teaching Westerners. There is also a Retreat House, 
for more intensive study with Geshe Wangyal, and a trans- 
lation center, The Buddhist Studies Institute. 
Book: The Door of Liberation, Essential teachings of the 
Tibetan Buddhist Tradition, collected and edited under the 
supervision of the Geshe Wangyal, published by Maurice 
Girodias Associates, 220 Park Ave., South, New York, NY 
10003. Contains translations and commentaries from the 
Gelugpa School of Tibetan Buddhism, especially from 
Lama Tsong-kha-pa. 
Ewam Choden Tibetan Buddhist Center 
254 Cambridge Street 
Kensington, California 94708 
(415) 527-7363 
| Aste 47 
Kunga Thartse Rinpoche (Sakyapa School) gives classes in 
meditation, Tibetan language and culture. There are daily 
meditations at the center. 
Publication: Ewan Choden Newsletter 
Tibetan Nyingmapa Meditation Center 
2425 Hillside Avenue 
Berkeley, California 94704 
Tarthang Tulku Rinpoche, is a Lama of the Nyingmapa 
School, the oldest of the Tibetan Schools. Meditation classes, 
Tibetan language and culture. There is also a translation 
program. 
Publication: Crystal Mirror, $3.50 an issue. More of a book 
than a magazine. Translations of Nyingmapa texts, articles 
by Tarthang Tulku, H.V. Guenther, and others. Issue no. 2 
includes an extensive interview with Tarthang Tulku. 
Books: Calm And Clear is a translation of an important text 
on meditation by MiPham, a 19th-century Nyingmapa 
teacher. Legend of the Great Stupa includes a translation of 
The Life Story of the Lotus Born Guru, PadmaSambhava, 
who brought Tantric Buddhism to Tibet from India in the 
Eighth Century. Available from: 
Dharma Press, address above. 
Kagyu Kunkhyab Chuling 
725 West 14th Avenue 
Vancouver, British Columbia 
Canada 
DI
SIT
Lama Tsewang Gyurmed lives and teaches regularly at the 
centre. 
Kalu Rinpoche is a Meditation Master of the 
Kargyu School. 
He lives in India, but travels to the West 
about once a year. Book: The center has published 
The Foundations of Buddhist Meditation by The Very 
Venerable Kalu Rinpoche, a text which is written in the 
traditional Tibetan style. 
It is a concise summary of key 
points to know and remember in Dharma practice and 
costs $1.75. They have also published a Continuous Rain 
To Benefit Beings by The Fifteenth Karmapa Kakhyab 
Dorje which costs $1.25. 
Publication: 
a newsletter every two or three months—— 
$1.00 to get on mailing list. 
Vajradhatu 
1111 Pearl Street 
Boulder, Colorado 80302 
Vajradhatu is the name for the association of centers working 
under the guidance of Chogyam Trungpa Rinpoche. They 
range from a community in Barnet, Vermont, Tail of the 
Tiger, to smaller centers in cities. These Dharmadatu Centers, 
which are open to anyone, hold daily meditations, as well as 
an all-day (Sunday) meditation, which, like the Zen sesshin, 
combine sitting, walking meditation and work, but in a less 
formal style. There are also study groups and talks, which 
alternate with tapes of Trungpa Rinpoche. 
Publications: Garuda, published annually by Vajradhatu 
and Shambhala. Garuda III is $1.95. It contains talks by 
Trungpa Rinpoche, as well as poems, calligraphy. It also 
carries material by Suzuki-roshi, H.V. Guenther, as well as 
people working with Trungpa. Lectures and seminars by 
Trungpa Rinpoche are available on tape (reel or cassette) 
from Vajradhatu. 
Books: Meditation in Action is a good introduction to 
Trungpa Rinpoche’s approach. Cutting’ Through Spiritual 
Materialism, also by Trungpa Rinpoche, is the most recent 
and most complete book. The idea of spiritual materialism, 
“looking for exits to turn off at because we can’t bear to 
be where we are’ is central. This is an overview of the 
full range of teachings, from the Four Noble Truths to 
Tantra. Available from Vajradhatu. 
“It takes tremendous effort to work one’s way through the 
difficulties of the path and actually get into the situations 
of life thoroughly and properly. So the whole point of the 
hard way seems to be that some individual effort must be 
made by the student to acknowledge himself, to go through 
the process of unmasking. One must be willing to stand 
alone, which is difficult.” 
From: Dharmadhatu Books, 331 W. 20th St., N.Y., N.Y. 
10013 or Shambhala, 1409 Fifth St., Berkeley, Calif. 94710. 
