—sB 
rele s Dilemma 
Two men suspected of committing a crime together are 
arrested and placed in separate cells by the police. Each 
suspect may either confess or remain silent, and each one 
knows the possible consequences of his action. These are: 
(1) If one suspect confesses and his partner does not, the 
one who confessed turns state’s evidence and goes free and 
the other One goes to jail for twenty years. (2) If both 
suspects confess, they both go to jail for five years. (3) 
If both suspects remain silent, they both go to jail for a year 
fol carrying concealed weapons—-— a lesser charge. We will 
sipeese rt there is no ‘‘honor among thieves’’ and each 
Suspect 2 
Confess 
Do Not Confess 
(5 yrs, 5 yrs.) 
(go free, 20 yrs.) 
(20 yrs., go free) 
(lyr., lyr.) 
POCKET CALCULATORS 
uy 
(FOUR-FUNCTION) 
by Andrew Fluegelman 
Confess 
Suspect 1 
Do Not 
Confess 
The recent electric pocket calculator phenomenon isn’t just 
another consumer /ure. These machines offer significant 
savings in time and accuracy, possibly even energy, they 
te 
good tools. (We found this out dramatically as we were 
trying to settle on a distributor, printer and cover price for 
the Epilog, and had to work through a maze of inter-related 
and shifting parameters. It wouldn’t have been manageable 
without the Texas Instrument Datamath TI 2500 a friend 
lent us.) So we decided to look for the “best deal” in a 
four-function calculator. 
Our most significant discovery was that the industry and 
the marketplace for personal calculators is currently ina 
state of great turbulence: companies over-producing, under- 
pricing, going out of business; wholesalers and retailers 
buying up discontinued models in bulk; prices shifting 
wildly (generally downward). It will all most likely settle 
down within the next few years, but until it does, the best 
deal is to be found not among the several calculators which 
have managed to establish themselves (like the Datamath), 
but among the victims of the exploding technology. What 
foliows should help you in the selection process. 
Since you can reasonably safely assume that any calculator 
you buy will give the correct answer to the problem punched 
in, what you should be looking for is the “right’’ combination 
of capabilities. Here’s what we believe are the minimum 
features required for a useful tool: 
* 8-digit display—— Standard for most calculators. 
This 
_will let you calculate up to $999,999.99. Just 
about all the significant places needed for most 
problems. 
* full floating decimal—— Lets you punch in “7”, "11.3," 
and “00001” and get “’18.30001” as the total. 
* algebraic logic (vs. “arithmetic logic” found in the 
_ 
__ cheapest models)—— Lets you punch in the 
_ 
problem the way you would “say” it. To test for 
_ this, you should be able to subtract 3 from 5 by 
: 
pushing buttons marked, respectively, “'5","—", 
"3" and “="" and get your answer. 
* chain 
and 
mixed 
calculations—— Lets you perform a 
_ series of calculations in different functions without 
_ intermediate totals. For example, you can punch in 
NOM Wye gt nye gn Maen ugn Mon age aon 
and get "4". 
* constant mode—— Lets you multiply or divide by a 
constant without having to key it in each time. 
(A few calculators permit constant calculations 
_ for addition and subtraction, too—— most don’t.) 
“eee entry key—— Lets you clear the last entry punched 
in without clearing the calculations preceding it. 
(On some calculators, there is only one “clear” key; 
pushing it once clears the last entry and pushing it 
a second time clears all previous calculations.) 
In addition to these basic features, there are two more found 
on many calculators which greatly expand their usefu/ness: 
* memory—— This is, in essence, a built-in scratch pad. 
It lets you enter the answer into a separate circuit, 
_ 
to which can be added or subtracted the answers 
from subsequent calculations. The total of the 
“memory” can later be re-introduced into a still” 
_ 
subsequent calculation on the main curcuit. This 
capability turns out to be very handy. 
avertlo indication/retrieval—— Many calculators will 
signal to you that your answer has exceeded the 
digit display capacity of the calculator, and will 
display only the most significant digits. Some 
Pane you to successively divide this answer by 
O until the decimal point appears, thus ce 
Game Theory 
(A Nontechnical Introduction) 
Morton D. Davis 
1970; 210pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
Basic Books, Inc. 
Harper & Row 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Morton Dae : 
ee 
ws 
sear we 
fe 
suspect's sole concern is his own self-interest. Under these 
conditions, what should the criminals do? The game is 
shown in Figure 29. This is the celebrated prisoner's 
dilemma which was originally formulated by A.W. Tucker 
and which has become one of the classical problems in the 
short history of game theory. 
Let us look at the prisoner's dilemma from the point of 
view of one of the suspects. Since he must make his 
decision without knowing what his partner will do, he 
must consider each of his partner's alternatives and anticipate 
the effect of each of them on himself. 
The most sophisticated form of overflow retrieval 
lets you flip a switch and see the “lost” digits. 
(There is also “underflow” indication and 
, 
retrieval—— a less commonly found feature.) 
What we‘re describing here is the basic “four-function” 
(addition, subtraction, multiplication, division) model. You 
can also get calculators which automatically deal with and 
compute powers and roots, reciprocals, logarithmic and 
trigonometric functions, imaginary numbers, pi, and display 
the answer in exponential form Also ones which compute 
simple and compound interest, yields of bonds and annuities, 
mortgage rates ana trend lines. Don't botner with these 
“scientific” and “business” calculators unless you have a 
specific need for the specialized functions. If you do, consider 
carefully which mix of them will be most useful to you—— 
and plan on spending several hundred dollars. 
With regard to power source, it is important that the 
calculator be able to run on AC current. Despite the fact 
that one of the appeals of these machines is their portability, 
you'll probably find that the majority of your “heavy” 
calculating will be at a desk where plug-in power is available. 
The portable power.sources for calculators are either 
rechargeable nickel-cadmium batteries (built-in) or separate 
replaceable batteries. Don’t automatically assume that the 
rechargeable are the best bet. Once they’ve run down, they 
require several hours to recharge. They also make the 
calculator more expensive, (albeit more economical in the 
long run if frequently used as a portable). Think about how 
your calculator’s primarily going to be used, then consider 
alternative costs, battery life expectancies. 
Finally, consider the calculators “feel”. Are the buttons in 
logical positions? On some models, the buttons make a 
detectable “click” when they register, and this seems to aid 
in accurately entering digits. Another consideration is the 
size and legibility of the display. (Some people, generally 
males, are color-blind to the red displays found on many 
models.) 
You're now ready to start shopping for your “best deal”. Go 
to the most handy store and play with some of the “name” 
brands: Texas, Bomar, Sharp, Commodore. (And check out 
one of the Hewlett-Packards just to convince yourself that 
all those extra functions are probably completely useless to 
you, and only clutter the keyboard.) Then start looking for 
special sales, close-outs, etc. that offer significant savings 
over the name models, but keep in mind the essential 
features listed above. 
We wouldn’t recommend buying a close-out through the 
mail. Many 
retailers handling close-outs will offer a relatively 
short-term replacement warranty, but not one covering long- 
term repairs. Don’t be too concerned by this. The point we’re 
HP-65: $795.00 
Suppose his partner confesses; our man must either remain 
silent and go to jail for twenty years, or confess and go to 
jail for five. Or, if his partner remains silent, he can serve a 
year by being silent also, or win his freedom by confessing. 
Seemingly, in either case, he is better off confessing! What, 
then, is the problem? 
The paradox lies in this. Two naive prisoners, too ignorant 
to follow this compelling argument, are both silent and go 
to prison for only a year. Two sophisticated prisoners, 
primed with the very best game-theory advice, confess and 
are given five years in prison in which to contemplate their 
cleverness. 
It is when the “prisoner's dilemma” is played repeatedly—— 
and not for a fixed number of trials but for an indefinite 
period—— that the cooperative strategy comes into its own. 
And these are precisely the conditions under which the 
“prisoner's dilemma” is often played. Two competing firms 
know that they won’t be in business forever, but they 
generally have no way of knowing when death, merger, 
bankruptcy, or some other force will end their competition. 
Thus, the players can’t analyze what will happen in the 
last ‘‘play’’ and then work backward from there, for 
nobody knows when the last “play” will be. The compelling 
argument in favor of the uncooperative strategy breaks down, 
then, and we breathe a sigh of relief. 
trying to make is that the calculator vou buy this year isn’t a 
life-time investment. Be satisfied with a serviceable cheap one 
that will see you through until the technology and the 
marketplace are refined and stabilized. We're just a few years 
away from programable pocket computers. 
(After looking around for a month or so, we finally came 
across a close-out of an admittedly chintzy-looking calculator 
that nevertheless performs all the tunctions listed above 
(rechargeable batteries)—— for $39.95. Comparable name- 
brand models were selling at the time for about $100. Expect 
the prices of even the name brand models to have dropped by 
the time you're reading this.) 
SCIENTIFIC CALCULATORS 
In 1972, Hewlett-Packard Corporation introduced the HP-35 
and virtually inaugurated an industry. They now have four 
models of (expensive) advanced pocket calculators, which 
set the standards against which lesser-priced competitors are 
measured: 
* The HP-35 has a four-resigter operational stack (see below) 
and a separate storage register; is pre-programmed for 
the four arithmetic functions, the three trigonometric 
functions and their arcs (in decimal degrees), common 
logarithms and natural logs and anti-logs, reciprocals, 
square root, any power of a number and pi. It 
currently sells for $225 (the price having been driven 
down by the introduction of HP’s subsequent models). 
* The HP-45 augments the -35 with nine addressable storage 
registers and a separate “‘last-in’’ register; performs the 
trig functions in degrees, radians or grads and can 
convert the answers to degree/minute/seconds; adds 
to the -35’s pre-programmed functions natural anti- 
logs, rectangular/polar coordinate conversions, vector 
arithmetic, statistical mean, standard deviation, sum- 
of-the-squares, factorial, percent and delta percent, 
and. metric conversion constants. Current price: $325. 
* The HP-65 contains a 100-step program memory, 51 
pre-programmed functions, and a magnetic card reader 
/writer which permits pre-recorded programs 
(available from HP) to be inserted into the calculator 
and keyboard-originated programs to be recorded, 
edited and re-used. HP heralds it as the first Personal, 
programmable computer. Price: $795. 
* The HP-80 is a financial calculator with 36 functions, 
including bond yield and price, compound interest, 
mortgage payment, rate of return, trend lines, accrued 
interest, discounted notes, annual yield, annual 
Percentage rate, mean and standard deviation, and 
a 200-year calendar. $395. 
All of the HP's have a 200-decade range (10°99 to 1099), 
expressable in up to 10 significant digits. The HP’s also 
employ “Reverse Polish Notation”. Basically, this means 
that there’s no “‘="" key. Numbers are “‘entered”’ into an 
operational stack; operations are then performed on the 
numbers in the stack. The answer from an operation is 
automatically loaded into the stack. (To add 3+4 you would 
key in “3", “ENTER”, “4”, “+" whereupon the answer 
“7'' would appear. To then multiply this sum by the sum 
of 5+6 you would next key in “5”, “ENTER”, 6", “+’’—— 
obtaining the second sum, and finally ‘’x’’—— obtaining the 
product of the two sums.) For relatively straightforward 
calculations, a calculator employing algebraic logic and a 
memory is decidedly simpler to use; however, the superiority 
of calculators with RPN logic becomes evident in long 
calculations which contain multiple parenthetical 
expressions. 
You can expect the prices of these advanced calculators to 
drop as new models are introduced and the competition 
increases. There are presently a large number of calculators 
which contain less exhaustive arrays of scientific functions 
and which sell for $100-$150. Your first step in choosing a 
scientific calculator should be sitting down and figuring out 
what types of problems you're going to be using it for. Then 
pay for only what you can use. 
\ 
SNO
