A OO 
BN 
tS 
eG 
Eo 
AL 
NG 
DET 
SPARK 
MA 
Cm 
OL 
ALS 
TON 
SAE 
MTN 
SOB 
NOMAIDIICS 
BICYCLING 
638 
Bike Tripping 
Tom Cuthbertson’s companion volume to his 
maintenance/repair book (Pp. 253, 639) is a joyful, 
unpretentious and highly informative introduction 
to the proper and efficient use of a bike for trans- 
portation/recreation. Good pointers on cycling 
technique and a crucial life-and-limb-saving chapter 
on safety and the safe bike. The final chapter de- 
mystifies the dynamics of the frame, written by 
master frame-builder Al Eisentraut. 
—Andrew Fluegelman (AF) 
When passing a whole row of parked cars, look into the 
cars for drivers who might open their doors or pull out 
suddenly in front of you. 
A great alternative to a 20 pound bike with a 20 pound 
lock and chain is a 40 pound “‘trashmo” special. Rick the 
artist bought a used one speed for me at a flea market for 
five bucks. Works like a charm. And nobody ever tries to 
steal it. For short around-town trips, commuting and 
shopping, or for school, the trashmo is the only way to go. 
Anybody’s Bike Book 
Despite the flood of bicycle books in the past few years, 
Tom Cuthbertsons’s friendly guide (reviewed in the 
Last Catalog Pg. 253) still reigns as the best introduction to 
bicycle maintenance and repair. 
This is definitely the manual 
to ease you through your first few troubleshooting and 
overhaul jobs. 
—AF 
Richard’s Bicycle Book 
Bicycle selection, riding, touring, racing, elementary 
maintenance, history, lore and general enjoyment—— 
all presented clearly and straightforwardly in a single 
inexpensive volume. 
This is a “best buy” if you can 
justify owning only one bicycle book, or if you want 
to round out your cycling reference library. 
—AF 
Richard’s Bicycle Book 
Richard Ballantine 
1972; 250pp. 
$1.95 postpaid 
from: 
Ballantine Books 
457 Hahn Rd. 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Hold a chalk or pencil at the outer edge of the rim while you 
spin the wheel so that the high spots are marked. Working 
one half to 1 turn at a time, tighten the spokes at the chalk 
mark (counterclockwise) and loosen them opposite the 
chalk mark. Continue until wheel is round. 
Hold pencil or chalk at side of rim so that side to side wobbles 
are marked. Working 1/2 to 1 turn at a time, and in groups 
of 4 to 6 spokes, tighten up the spokes opposite the chalk 
mark and loosen the ones next to it: 
Tighten or loosen the spokes which are in the center of the 
chalk marks a little more than the ones at the edges of the 
marks. When you have finally succeeded, or compromised, 
run your finger around the rim and check for protruding 
spoke ends. 
File protruders down. 
Bike Trippin 
Tom GiREacnen 
1972; 172pp. 
$3.00 Postpaid 
from: 
Ten Speed Press 
Box 4310 
Berkeley, CA 94704 
or Whole Earth 
If you use a fancy bike for those trips, you have to get a 
huge lock and chain, or get ulcers, or both.-Why not have 
two bikes—— a trashmo for local errands, and a super-bike 
for joy rides and longer trips. Just make sure you tend to 
the maintenance needs of your lovable old trashmo. 
Several cuts above the trashmo bikes and the second hand 
three speeds are the luxury three speed, four speed, and 
five speed bikes. 
If you enjoy sitting upright, and yet want 
a good, comfortable reliable bike, look at some of the elegant 
three speeds like the Raleigh Superbe or the Moulton 
Collapsible Twenty (20 inch wheel) or their counterparts 
in other makes. These bikes are aristocrats. They are a joy 
to work on and pure luxury to ride. The 20 inch wheel 
bikes are all descendants or variations of the Moulton 
Four Speed, a magnificent and now rare breed designed by 
Alex Moulton of England. They look funny at first, 
like a kid’s bike with giraffe tendencies. 
Don’t laugh. Some- 
day they may. take over. They are very comfortable, 
especially those with built-in shock absorbers. They are also 
amazingly maneuverable, and the collapsible models are 
portable. You can take a fold-up Twenty on any mass 
transit vehicle. 
In the future this may become increasingly 
important. So think twice before you turn down the idea 
of a three or four speed, 20 inch wheel bike in favor of the 
Walter Mitty dream you have of yourself on a racing bike. 
Last Catalog Update 
Hello Andrew: 
| hope you haven’t forgotten | was going to do some stuff on 
bicycles or given up on me. 
| apologise for taking so long. 
! 
started work on it right away but everything | wrote turned 
into an introduction for a book on “‘How to save the world 
thru cycling.” Then | broke my leg—— got caught by a jerk 
opening his car door into my path. 
Here are some suggestions for the bicycle section: 
| seriously 
suggest you cease listing Eugene Sloan’s Complete Book of 
Bicycling (Last Catalog, Pg. 253). This was the first book to 
score on the “boom.” As a whole, it’s neither ‘‘complete”’ 
nor very good. Fortunately, it has also become fairly out- 
dated and this gives a painless excuse to delist it. 
| would suggest that you also not mention specific bicycles. 
There is none in the general-interest price range that is so 
outstanding as to warrant mention. On the other hand, the 
dealer is very important. 
It is not fair to recommend a 
brand since this will perhaps make people buy the bike 
without regard to who they buy it from. 
In the same vein, 
the old list of “best bike shops’’ was made by a fairly naive 
Turin employee many years ago. 
| do not think, despite my 
and Turin’s interest in the matter, that specific shops should 
be mentioned. 
Well, that should convince you that | still exist, which was 
the idea. 
| look forward to hearing from you. 
Peace, 
John Hart 
c/o Pellaton 
Rue de Monthoux, 8 
1201 Geneve, Suisse 
John Hart is the director of European Operations for the 
Turin Group of bike shops. 
: 
—A 
HOT ROD STINGRAY DIRT BIKES 
In towns throughout the country there are highly 
maneuverable, custom made stingray bikes darting 
about. Bikes differ in different towns, depending o 
local terrain and riding style. In one town with dirt 
roads for example, boys have developed bikes that 
handle like jack rabbits (if tuned), take high speed 
downhill dirt road rock-bashes yet keep going, are 
small enough to put in a car trunk when hitching 
and light enough to push up hills and trails easily. 
The Schwinn frame as shown in the photo is the 
basis for a strong balloon-tire bike. 
Fragments of conversations with 15-16 yr. old bike 
builders: the stingray frame (intended by Schwinn 
for very small kids) is used because it’s light, close 
to the ground, low center of gravity, best for tricks, 
If buying a new bike there are two types of stingray 
frames: the regular and the junior. Kids prefer the 
junior because it has a smaller sprocket, shorter 
cranks, is closer to the ground, is $10 cheaper. Tw¢ 
advantages of the regular though are higher seat pos 
heavier tire on rear. 
For heavy dirt road travel or 
jumping, get heavy duty rims and tires. The Schwin 
S-7 rim with 1-3/4” tire is middle weight; the S-2 
rim with 2.125” tire is heavy weight. You can take 
the S-2 rim, drill it out, put in super strong spokes. 
Tires: many designs. Some have flat surfaces, othe 
are more radial, which grip better on turns, but if 
they have big knobs will wear down fast (2-3 monti 
heavy riding). An excellent knobby is the Goodyes 
Eagle MX. For lightness: aluminum motocross 
Gearing Down 3-Speeds 
Using a low gear is better exercise than straining in a-high 
gear, and the flexing of your muscles assists your heart in 
pumping your blood. Spinning a low gear takes a little 
Practice to get used to, but it will mean you can go farther 
and not be as tired when you get there. With lower gears 
you can carry larger loads more comfortably and pedal up 
steeper hills. 
You can easily lower the gears on your 3-speed by simply 
replacing the rear sprocket with one with a greater number 
of teeth. Most adult size bicycles have 18 teeth on the rear 
sprocket. 
For Sturmey-Archer hubs, the largest sprocket 
made has 22 teeth. 
For Shimano the largest has 20 teeth. 
(The difference between 18 and 20 teeth may not be worth 
changing). Consult a repair book that covers 3-speed hubs 
for removal of the rear wheel and sprocket. 
Remember 
which way the washers and sprocket were placed. 
You'll 
also need several links of chain to add to your old one. 
When the wheel is replaced, the gears might need adjustmen 
check your repair book. While you're at it, oi! your chain. 
—Howard Sutherland 
Energy Efficiency 
Not only is bicycle travel human-sealed, healthful and non- 
polluting, but it turns out to be more efficient than jet pla 
salmon or seagulls: 
o 
COST 
OF 
TRANSPORT 
(CALORIES 
PER 
GRAM 
PER 
KILOMETER) 
‘MAN ON BICYCLE 
1 
10° 
40% 
10°47 
8102 
102 
102 
10 
oF 
10! 
4 
10 
10? 
BODY WEIGHT (KILOGRAMS) 
MAN ON A BICYCLE ranks first in efficiency among traveling animals and machine! 
terms of energy consumed in moving a certain distance as a function of body weight 
rate of energy consumption for a bicyclist (about .15 calorie per gram per kilometer) i! 
proximately a fifth of that for an unaided walking man (about .75 calorie per gram 
kilometer). With the exception of the black point representing the bicyclist (lower 
this graph is based on data originally compiled by Vance A. Tucker of Duke Univer 
—from “Bicycle Technology” by S. S. Wilson, Scientific 
American, March, 1973. 
