Fike 
‘ 
i] 
TONS 
fe 
a 
oe 
COM 
UNICAT 
3 _ Henscratches and Flyspecks 
What a wonderful Look! Pete Seeger has brought joy and 
pleasure to millions of folks with his singing. And now, he’s 
whomped-up this easy guide to understanding the sign- 
language of music. Everybody who’s itched to be able to 
look at those confusing spots, squiggles, swoops and lines 
and sing the song they stand for will have a ball. 
—Scott Beach 
This book got an ironclad copyright in the U.S. Library of 
Congress. 
Anyone caught copying or repeating parts of this book and 
Passing them on to others. . 
. will sure to be a good friend of 
mine, ‘cause that’s what | wrote it for in the first place.* 
(Don’t let the publisher catch you). 
*Thanks to Woodrow Wilson Guthrie for this thought. 
Henscratches and 
Flyspecks 
Peter Seeger 
1973; 256pp. 
$7.95 postpaid 
from: 
G.P. Putnam’s Sons 
- 200 Madison Ave. 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
Sing Out! 
This is Sing Out!’s 23rd year of publication. 
/t is put out 6 
times per annum by a group of dedicated folkies that 
includes Pete Seeger, John Cohen, Izzy Young and Barbara 
Dane. Each issue includes a dozen or more folk songs, old 
and new, with words, music and guitar chords. 
The songs 
are used to illustrate articles on what’s new—— and what’s 
old—— in folk music by Sing Out!’s correspondents around 
the country and around the world. 
Every issue contains one 
or more “Teach-In” pieces, in which a noted teacher 
gives sheet music and chords for the style of an important 
player of traditional music—— everything from mouth bow 
to blues guitar to cajun fiddle to spoons. 
Once a year a 
whole issue is devoted to “’Teach-Ins.’’ There are inter- 
views, columns, book and record reviews, news of coffee- 
houses and folk festivals, and a Folk Marketplace in which 
small independent companies hawk their musical wares. 
Usually there’s a “soundsheet” bound into Sing Out!—— a 
Paper-thin record on which the songs taught in the issue or 
described in articles can be heard. 
—Craig Karpel 
One of the most exciting and interesting bottleneck tunes | 
have ever heard was Rev. Davis’ “’Whistlin’ Blues.’ | 
have transcribed this in The Book of Guitar Tunings (Amsco 
Pub.). Even though Rev. Davis looked down on this style 
he had nevertheless perfected it and extended it to give a 
unique sound all his own. This was rather typical of Rev. 
Davis’ approach to music. 
Recorders! 
hello, welcome back! 
since the Last WEC my wife & i have gone into amateur 
music making in a big way. mostly old music (medieval, 
renaissance, baroque) and mostly recorders. 
this is so 
much fun and so easy to get into that i thought other 
people might like to hear sthg about it. we started out 
playing duets, found other people that played and did 
trios, and finally bought a bass and spread the gospel to 
friends who didn’t play anything, and have played with 
as many as 9... usually quintets now tho. Lots of 
madrigals and renaissance dances for 5. 
Anyway, here’s some advice. The best source of recorder 
info is The American Recorder, $10/year, 4 issues, nearly 
worth it just for the ads, but the articles are interesting. 
Terrific music and record reviews, also books. Write 
American Recorder Society, 141 West 20th St., New York, 
NY 10011. 
If you live really out in the sticks, and your local music 
store, if there is one, doesn’t handle any recorder music, 
or if all they have is “turkey in the straw’’ for soprano 
and piano, then the best mail-order place is Magnamusic, 
in Sharon, Conn. 06069. They are somehow connected 
with The Recorder Center, Amenia, NY 12501, and they 
may send you both catalogs. You can sometimes get 
music cheaper by ordering directly from the publisher, 
(e.g. C.F. Peters, 373 Park Ave. South, New York, NY. 
10016, ask for Recorder and Guitar catalog), but no 
other place will send you a price list that is so complete. 
More on Music 
_ See pp. 326-338. 
Lou Harrison’s Music Primer 
This is one of the four or five books I’ve become most 
attached to in the last year. 
I’ve had my own copy (ripped 
off, flagrantly, from a friend in New York) fora little over 
a year now and feel that it’s one of those books you can 
keep going back to and continue to find new little bits of 
joy and human wisdom in. 
It’s arranged in ‘items’, a chinese system adopted by Lou to 
circumvent the ‘empirical Pyramid’ used in newspaper 
journalism which assumes one thing is more important than 
another. A meditation device? 
Lou has studied and composed in man y different musical 
traditions. One of his records, ‘Pacifica Rondo’, is literally 
written around the Pacific Ocean and the Cultures which 
border on it. The items dealing with music are reflective 
of these studies. 
H 
—Don Burris 
Lou Harrison’s 
Music Primer 
Lou Harrison 
1971; 50pp. 
$4.25 Postpaid 
from: 
C.F. Peters Corp. 
373 Park Ave. South 
New York, NY 10016 
Sing Out! 
Bob Norman, Ed. 
$6.00 /yr 
from: 
Sing Out 
Studio 20B 
350 W. 57 St. 
New York, NY 10019 
What would you tell a guitar student about playing blues? 
Well a lot of things | could tell a person if | just had the 
time to study what they were fishing for. To play blues on 
a guitar, I’d teach them to play the guitar like a piano. 
What do you think of bottleneck playing? 
| don’t think nothing of that! You're cheating your own 
self. 
It ain’t so respectable. 
People thinks its a pretty 
thing, but it’s not. 
If you want to buy a recorder. 
. 
. it is easy to make a 
decision which you will regret. 
It is safest to begin with 
plastic, from Dolmetsch, Aulos, or perhaps Yamaha. 
If 
you want a wooden recorder that is as good as these, 
you have to start thinking about spending $50. The best 
discussion of brands | have seen is available as a reprint 
from Terminal Music, 166 West 48th St., New York, NY 
10036, while the supply lasts. Two ads, 4pp each, ‘‘the 
inside story on Soprano Recorders,’’ and ditto Alto Recorders. 
Recorder and early instrument prices have gone nuts since 
the devaluation of the dollar. 
Lots are german, and they 
have their own inflation. .. | have seen small racketts go 
from $200 to over $400 in a few months. Recorders costing 
$80-90 now cost $50 a year or two ago, and they're headed 
straight up. A good American wooden recorder, not 
discussed by Terminal (which is run by Arthur Nitka, who 
wrote the OAK instruction book in last WEC), is the Koch 
Recorder, write to Haverhill, NH 03765. Very sweet, but 
maybe a little sharp. May not last as Mr. Koch,the maker, 
died a couple of years ago, and | don’t know whether his 
son is just selling what's left or continuing manufacture. 
Prices have not changed very much, which means they are 
a bargain, made of good woods. 
Instruction books: the Trapp Family book, “’Enjov your 
Recorder,” is fine if you are learning with someone who 
plays the same size as you. However, most duets are for 
soprano + alto, and if you learn with spouse, lover, friend, 
or someone you will want to play with later (ie not ‘‘teacher’’) 
then the book by the late Erich Katz (can’t remember 
name) is best, it has soprano + alto. Soprano is in C, alto 
in F, so fingerings are all different. 
Other books: 
| really haven’t transmitted much of the 
- 
ade 
= 
te 
This Business of Music 
A goldmine! 
This remarkably thorough guidebook, with 
its companion-piéce, More About This Business of Music, t 
($6.95) brings together 
all the practical, legal, procedural. 
and technical aspects of the music industry. The American 
Library Association calls it an Outstanding Reference 
Book. A must for songwriters, musicians, recordists, Pro- : 
ducers, publishers, everybody in the music business. 
—Scott Beach 
This Business of Mus, 
Sidney Shemel & 
M. William Krasilovsky | 
1971; 575pp. 
$1 5.00 estpaid e 
More About 
This Business 
of Music 
s 
Sidney Shemel and 
_M. William Krasilovsky 
— 
1967; 160pp. 
$6.95 postpaid 
both from: 
Billboard Pub., Inc. 
One Astor Plaza 
New York, NY 10036 
or Whole Earth 
A common defense of a person who is charged with having 
infringed a copyrighted song is that the musical work is in 
the public domain. This can arise from abandonment of 
the copyright by the plaintiff by failure to use proper 
notices of copyright, failure to renew the copyright, or 
other action or inaction on the part of the plaintiff. Or 
the defendant may prove that the duplicated melody line 
or lyric originated from sources other than the plaintiff. 
In one case, the similarity of the Don Cornell hit recording 
“Play Me Hearts and Flowers’ to another copyrighted song 
entitled ‘‘Hearts and Flowers’’ was exonerated by evidence 
that they both stemmed from Tobani’s old-time favorite 
“Hearts and Flowers,’’ which was available to the public 
since the copyright had expired. 
Copyright is not jeopardized by acknowledgement that a 
public domain composition is the basis of the writer's song. 
In fact, the copyright registration Form E provides for the 
supplying of. this information. 
However, in such a case, 
the copyright obtained is not on the public domain work 
but on the arrangement, revision, or other new material 
added. Thus, a user could, without infringement of “Till 
the End of Time,” record the original Chopin “Polonaise’’ 
public domain version of the melody, but not the arrange- 
ment or adaptation contained in the song ‘‘Till the End of 
Time.” 
The difficult, intermittent and seasonal employment situatia 
of symphony orchestra musicians, the supply of which is 
generally larger than the demand for their services, has been 
recognized by the American Federation of Musicians in its 
agreement with phonograph record companies. 
The following table compares the American Federation of 
Musicians standards for symphonic and popular music: 
Symphonic 
Popular 
Minimum Session 
2 hrs 
3 nrs 
Permissible recording at session 
40 minutes 
15 minut 
Pay scale per session in 1966 
$50.38 
$61.00 
Overtime pay per % hour 
$12.60 
$20.33 
enjoyment you can get out of making your own music, or 
how sweet a group of recorders can sound, the bigger the 
better, up to maybe 8. You will enjoy playing more if 
you know what you are doing, historically. The best book 
for this may be a little difficult to find, but it isa real — 
joy: The Amorous Flute, by John Manifold, London 
Workers’ Music Assn., 1948, 48pp, $1.25, paper, maybe 
from Hargail, 28 W. 38th St., New York, NY 10018. 
Recorder Technique, A. Rowland-Jones, Oxford Univ. 
Press, 1959. 159pp, paper, from Terminal. $3.45. : 
A Practical and Historical Sourcebook on the Recorder, 
by L.J. Schmidt, 1959, Thesis, Northwestern U, 1959, 
from University Microfilms, Mic 59-4837, Ann Arbor, 
Michigan. 623pp, paper, for $10 a bargain if you want to 
go into it this deeply. 
MAKING IT: 
| have no experience here, but | have friends 
who have made lutes and harpsichords. One of my probs 
is lack of workshop and tools. 
For those who may be 
conveniently situated, the Kelischek Workshop in Brass- 
town, NC right near Georgia could be the answer. You 
can go there, live on the grounds, and get tools, parts, and 
instruction, and make yourself a Jute, krummhorn, etc., 
cheaper than it can be bought. 
~ 
: 
QUESTION: 
| would love to get a Shenai, but my letters 
to Carroll Sound have gone unanswered. Do you know of 
other sources? Do you know what the story is on Carroll? 
(exotic instruments place in last WEC, p. 336). 
az 
Namaste, 
’ 
Frank & Louise Deis 
Highland Park, NJ 
