SOFT 
TECHINOLOGY 
How Animals Work 
This book explains how kangaroo rats live in the hot desert 
where there is no water. 
It discusses how animals utilize 
heat exchangers to conserve body heat and moisture. 
| 
found it a useful book, because it discusses questions | 
have pondered and never seen mentioned elsewhere. Why 
do dogs pant? Why do they pant so rapidly? This is one 
of a number of everyday questions answered to my satis- 
faction. 
It is also a great pleasure to read a book by a well 
known professor and have him say that it was a student who 
solved an intriguing puzzle. Too often a professor later 
becomes confused and believes he was the one who solved 
the puzzle or the good idea is successfully ignored. 
About ten years ago it was suggested by Eugene Crawford, 
then a student at Duke University, that dogs seem to pant 
at a resonant frequency (Crawford, 1962). Due to its 
elastic properties, the entire respiratory system has a natural 
frequency of oscillation, and to keep the system oscillating 
at this frequency requires the expenditure of only minimal 
muscular effort. Asa consequence, the heat production by 
the respiratory muscles is at a minimum, thus adding only 
i 
e heat load. Crawford estimated that if panting 
were to take place without the benefit of a 
resonant system, 
the increased muscular effort would generate more heat 
than the total amount the panting process can dissipate. 
This book should be required reading for architecture 
students in dry climates. 
These are the subjects to explore, 
these are the lessons to learn. 
—Steve Baer 
How Animals Work 
Knut Schmidt-Nielsen 
1972; 114pp. 
$1.95 postpaid 
from: 
Cambridge Univ. Press 
510 North Ave. 
New Rochelle, NY 
10801 
or Whole Earth 
The nasal passage of the 
desert iguana forms a slight depresion (A), 
just inside the external nares (D). Fluid from the nasal salt-excreting glands 
(located at B and C) accumulates in this depression and contributes moisture to 
the humidification of the respiratory air. 
INSPIRATION & METHANE 
High-Low BOOM! 
This little book (I was about to say primer) 
commences with a brief history of explosives. 
It 
then goes on to explain how to make certain 
explosives in the lab while at the same time cautioning 
the reader not to try it. There’s a discussion of smoke- 
less powder and making fireworks with chemical 
formulas and ingredients. Hmm. 
—JB 
High-Low BOOM! 
(Modern Explosives) 
Philip J. Danisevich 
1966; 37pp. 
$5.50 postpaid 
from: 
Hillcrest Pub. 
P.O..Box 395 
McDonald, OH 44437 
. . 
The arrangement of the hinged ribs and the sternum of birds permits 
large volume changes of the thorax, in which the lungs and some of the air-sacs 
are located. 
The Science of Design 
Mr. Glegg continues his useful thoughts (The Desi 
of Design Pg. 119) with special emphasis on helpi 
the designer/engineer handle scientific research. 
author contends that most designers are not com 
tent to set up and interpret experiments, and he 
illustrates this point (as usual) with horrifying 
examples and considerable wit. He then goes on 
show how experiments can be done and their resi 
put to use. 
The subject is not at all an easy one, 
as | can attest from experience. 
The book will b 
useful to non-professional designers too, as it is 
actually a treatise encouraging clear thinking set 
from ego-pitfalls. 
The small number of pages per 
dollar is deceiving. All meat, and good reading to 
—JB 
The Science of Design 
Gordon L. Glegg 
1973; 94pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
Cambridge Univ. Press 
|
510 North Ave. 
New Rochelle, NY 
10801 
or Whole Earth 
|
|
|!
(1) You can define exactly a two-dimensional figure. 
(2) You cannot define exactly a three-dimensional figu 
(3) With (2) what you will see will be dictated by what |
you want or expect to see. 
In other words you are belie 
yourself, not believing the object. From this follows: 
|
(4) A two-dimensional figure tells you nothing about it 
in three dimensions. 
BIO-GAS 
Although most sources of methane information 
agree on general principles, there seems to be a big 
problem persuading the devices to work and keep 
working. We know of many that did put out a bit of 
gas, only to be abandoned. We know of many that 
didn’t work at all. Even if you do succeed in 
achieving a decent output, there’s the problem of 
maintaining that output reliably and with a routine 
youd care to live with. Still lots of work to be done 
here. 
It takes more than the waste from one family to 
generate a useful amount of Methane unless you have 
a number of animals too. So a community Methane 
generator makes a lot of sense. An interesting reason 
for people to get together. 
—JB 
A Homesite Power Unit: Methane Generator 
This seems to me to be the clearest and most finely 
detailed plan for a practical methane generator. But 
on the other hand, I’ve not personally built one yet. 
—JB 
A Homesite Power Unit: 
Methane Generator 
=a 
7 
pha: 
Les Auerbach 
z 
r 
242 Copse Rd. 
$5.40 postpaid 
Madison, CT 06443 
The compost leaving the digester is ready for spreading on 
the fields. The slurry should be fully digested. In instances 
where digestion has not been completed, nitrogen in the 
form of ammonia (contained in the water of the slurry) 
should be allowed to escape into the open air since immediate 
application to the land could cause harm to plants. The 
completely digested effluent is an excellent soil conditioner 
t
with the ability to render soils more friable, increase thq 
infiltration and storage rates, facilitating deep moisture 
| 
penetration and proper aeration to roots. 
Dick Shuttleworth’s methane maker (sponsored by The 
Mother Earth News), ready for action on the Shuttlewo! 
cattle farm near Redkey, Indiana. 
Methane Digesters for Fuel Gas and Fertilizer 
Proven information that has been used to make working 
generators, including a small demonstrator made from an 
inner tube. Includes article by hog raiser L. John Fry, 
who actually made methane work in a useful way ona 
larger scale than many. 
(With bibliography). 
—JB 
Methane Digesters for 
Fuel Gas and Fertilizer 
(With Complete 
Instructions for Two 
Working Models) 
1973; 44pp. 
$3.00 postpaid 
from: 
New Alchemy Inst. West 
Box 376 
Pescadero, CA 94060 
This knowledge is useless without direct experience with 
small-scale models (which can be constructed cheaply from 
easily available materials). Once the digester is understood 
at this level, larger units can be built with more sophisticated 
ways of using methane gas energy and recycling sludge back 
into the biological systems. 
In this newsletter we would like to: 
(1) present a general 
background of the raw materials and processes of digestion; 
(2) discuss some preliminary ideas for using methane gas 
and sludge; (3) describe two designs for building simple 
working models of digesters; and (4) develop feedback from 
readers who are working on digester projects across the 
country. 
Bio-Gas Plant: Generating Methane from 
Organic Wastes 
Makes it all seem a bit more simple than experience has shown 
to be the case, but is nonetheless a good booklet to read if 
you plan to utilize methane. Plans and specifications for 
several plants included. 
Bio-Gas Plant Designs with Specifications 
A number of designs for Methane generators (including 
some for cold climates). Detailed only roughly these 
plans need plenty of hard detailing and experimentation 
to be made practical. Many drawings. 
—JB 
Bio-Gas Plant 
(Generating Methane from 
Organic Wastes) 
Ram Bux Singh 
Bio-Gas Plant Designs 
with Specifications 
Ram Bux Singh 
1973; 95pp. 
1973; 49pp. 
$5.00 postpaid (airmail) 
$7.00 Postpaid (airmail) 
both from: 
Gobar Gas Research Station 
Ajitmal, Etawah, U.P. 
India 
Bio-Gas What and Why 
The United States in 1963 produced 150 billion therms of 
natural and manufactured gas. The heat from all this gas 
would be enough to melt over 30 billion tons of ice and boil 
it away. 
In 1969 the United States also produced 2 billion tons 
manure On its farms and fields. This can be estimated t 
occupy over 2 billion cubic yards of manure, or a 4 foo 
thick carpet spread out over an area.of 20 miles wide a 
25 miles long. 
|
Another fact that is not generally known is that all this 
is capable of yielding a gas, very similar to natural gas in 
its makeup. The gas recovered from this much manure |
total about 24 billion therms. This is not enough to pré 
the tarye gas industry with any serious competition, but 
does represent a substantial amount of energy. 
How can this gas be recovered? By using a bio-gas plan 
which dung and other animal and vegetable wastes can |
fermented anaerobically, and made to release a gas, whi 
mostly methane. 
In addition, this process yields a ferti| 
rich in nutrients and humus. 
Although this bio-gas plant is perhaps not practical for |
man’s back yard, it can field tremendous application on 
both small and large farms, wherever there are supplies |
animal and vegetable waste. From 100 to 3000 cubic f 
bio-gas can be produced per day; 225 cubic feet will pe 
the work of 1 gallon of gasoline. 100 to 150 cubic feet 
pate all the food a family of 4 to 6 will be likely to eat 
ay. 
Any one who is interested in conserving resources, chec 
pollution, and making the most of everything he has sh 
interested in bio-gas. This book will give an idea about 
scope, its uses, its history and its methods. The author 
been in charge of a research station for bio-gas in Uttar 
Pradesh in Northern India, for 10 years. 
—Ram Bux Sing 
