andlebars, knock off kickstand bracket (braze holes 
hut). Unbendable seat post: solid aluminum (find 
a metal lathe) or get the Schwinn 14” seatpost. Seat: 
Schwinn accessory seat. Cranks: always Schwinn: 
mportant because you stand on them (weight not 
pn seat) when going downhill or jumping. 
As kids build up their bikes they learn how everything 
s put together. They're able to tune them: true the 
ims; clean out, repack, adjust or replace bearings; 
make sure everything is tight (important for fast 
Jownhill safety). They don’t like gears because 
ithout, braking is better, bike lighter. They gear 
tingrays low (typical is-6’’ front sprocket). Shorter 
ranks mean peddles are higher, less scraping when 
he Yamaha 
e tried a Yamaha “’Moto-Bike” the other day. It’s a heavy- 
duty bicycle about the size of a Schwinn Sting Ray, but with 
@ full motorcycle suspension at both wheels. 
Results are 
ide and handling characteristics that border on unbelievable. 
Since a bike made this way doesn’t need a smooth surface for 
iafe comfortable travel, bike routes wouldn’t have to be made 
of high energy asphalt and would also be a lot cheaper to 
make, and then there could be more of them, and... 
Try one 
t your Yamaha dealer. 
Costs about $125. 
—JB 
Super Bikes? 
While hanging out and working on the Epilog we've been 
alking about bikes. Andrew has an ultra-light 10 speed 
hat he-rides up to 100 miles per day. Jay has had a great deal 
Of experience with all sorts of bikes and understands the ; 
echnology well. I’m primarily interested in a dirt road bike 
© | can cover a lot of distance off the pavement. We've 
Peen talking about blending the technologies: can you adapt 
anything off the 10 speeds that would give you easier 
— 
Peddling on dirt? Or any facet of the motocross dirt bikes 
at would make a ten speed tougher? 
Is there a Volkswagen 
f bikes? We'd like to hear from people that have built 
(ood bikes—— home assembled combinations not currently 
Nown in available literature. Heavy tired cruisers, long- 
ange lightweights, combinations and mavericks. 
If there's 
Nough information we'll do an article in The CoEvolution 
uarterly (Pg. 450) on 5-10 outstanding bikes, including 
Oto, clear diagrams, and parts list including price and ; 
ailability. If you've built a bike and want to communicate, 
rite us at Box 428, Sausalito, CA, 94965. 
=—LK 
cornering. 
For bigger than 20” tire bikes, get the 
same design Schwinn frame: the Typhoon. (There 
are some crummy imitations to watch out for.) 
I'm 5.7’", 150 Ibs, have a 24” bike for dirt riding. 
There's lore: frames from a certain year and earlier 
were of higher strength steel; the little screws that 
hold on the Schwinn nameplate are rare. Everyone 
really into it has.his own preferences, and there are 
countless possible variations with different goose- 
necks, seat posts, hubs, rims, spokes and tires. 
Unheralded village technology as practiced by the 
kids of America. 
Ride on. 
—Lloyd Kahn 
Sutherland’s Handbook for Bicycle Mechanics 
The first and only book that comes to grips with the 
fact that international bicycle parts are woefully un- 
interchangeable. A complete lexicon of very technical 
specifications (what parts can be made to fit and what 
looks like it might work but won’t)—— all presented 
in an elegantly clear format. 
This handbook is 
obviously of no use to you unless you own a half- 
dozen different bicycles, but you should bring it 
to the attention of your local bike shop, because with 
it they‘/l be able to give you vastly better service. 
Also a valuable reference book to carry in a “sag 
wagon” supporting a group of cross-country tourists. 
—AF 
Sutherland’s Handbook 
one (ack Publics 
Z 
f 
utherland 
Publications 
for Bicycle Mechanics 
Box 9601 
Howard Sutherland 
1974; 60pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
Berkeley, CA 94709 
For instance Italian headsets and English headsets would 
seem to be interchangeable with a class A fit. 
25.4mm x 24 TPl 
We 2a TIP 
italian headset threads 
English headset threads 
Since 25.4mm = 1 inch it would seem they were the same. 
However, you will notice by comparing the Italian and the 
English standard for cutting threads that the angle of the 
threads is different. There will be damage, although slight, 
to an English fork fitted with an Italian headset or an 
Italian fork fitted with an English headset. For this reason 
it should be considered a Class B fit. 
60° 
Itatian Standard, 
Hea Standard, 
—< 
= 
Whitworth Standard 
LCe 
American Standard 
Xyzyx Bicycle Repair Aids 
These are the clearest, most comprehensive guides to 
basic repair currently in print. Novice repairpeople 
may find the instructions a bit terse, but once you've 
learned the essentials, the beautifully programmed 
sequential instructions and well-keyed diagrams 
provide an outstanding checklist for every job that 
you're ever likely to attempt. 
Coaster & 3-Speed 
Bicycle Repair 
Xyzyx Consumer Aid 
1972; 142pp. 
$4.95 postpaid 
both from: 
Crown Publishers 
419 Park Ave. South 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
Derailleur 5, 10, & 15 
Speed Bicycle Repair 
Xyzyx Consumer Aid 
1972; 132pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
QUICK-RELEASE HUB 
14 
ee) 
LES 
OVERHAUL FRONT HUB 
1. Using solvent, clean all parts. Wipe all parts dry. Check 
that bearings (8,10) are not worn or pitted. 
2. Slowly roll axle (9) on smooth surface. Check that axle 
is not bent. 
3. Apply grease to bearing surfaces on inside of hub (3). 
Apply to bearings (8,10) if bearings are retained. 
4. Place bearings (8) in hub (3). Install dust cap (7), if 
removed. 
5. Install cone (4) on axle (9) to distance measured when 
removed. 
6. Install axle (9) through bearings (8). 
= Place bearings (10) in hub (3). 
Install dust cap 
(11), if removed. 
Install cone (12) fingertight. Loosen 
cone one turn. 
8. Install washers and locknuts (6,14). 
If quick-release unit (15) was not removed, go to Step 9. 
9. Insert quick-release shaft (17) and spring (16) into axle 
(9). Install spring (2) and adjusting nut(1). Go to Step 
Lal: 
10. 
Install washers and axle nuts (5,13) 
11. Adjust front hub (Page 41). 
OVERHAUL ENDS HERE 
e 
Always keep in mind that you are handling easily damaged 
Parts. Lightweight alloys have been used in place of steel 
for the construction of many parts, thereby shaving pounds 
from the weight of the bicycle. However, these alloys are 
generally not as rugged as steel and can be damaged quite 
easily. So when you are working on your bicycle always 
remember—-— use care, don’t force parts. 
SO
Y 
WON 
