The Old House Journal 
3 
AGtein @ 
a 
Ra 
id House Journal 
ms such as “Teaching a Fireplace Not to Smoke” and 
= 
_ 
“Antique Wallpaper Preservation” fill this splendid new 
nonthly. Restoring old houses is a Good. 
—SB 
_ R.A. Clem Labine, Ed. 
$12 /yr, monthly 
from: 
199 Berkeley Place 
Brooklyn, NY 
11217 
After filling cracks, next most common plaster repair is 
Patching holes made by electricians and plumbers. One 
Particularly vexing type of repair is the “bottomless hole’’— 
made when a workman pokes a hole through both plaster 
___ and lath, and there’s nothing at the bottom of the hole for 
_» the plaster to adhere to. One way to cope with this 
situation is to rip out enough additional plaster so that the 
_ two adjacent studs or beams are exposed. New lath or 
_ sheetrock can then be nailed to the studs and plaster 
_ applied in the conventional manner. (More on this later.) 
A simpler and less messy solution is to stuff wadded 
Newspaper into the hole until it catches firmly on the sides 
and back of the interior partition space. Then after wetting 
edges of the old plaster thoroughly, apply thin coating of 
plaster of paris to the newspaper and the edge of the hole. 
Let plaster set for 20 min., then rewet and apply another 
thin coating of plaster. After repeating a couple of times, 
you'll build up a firm plaster base and can then proceed to 
Patch in the conventional manner. Build plaster up to 
within 1/8 inch of the wall surface. (Leave base coats rough 
to give adhesion for the top coat.) Use trowel to get smooth 
finish on the final layer. 
Don’t Go Buy Appearances 
A valuable little book on what to look for in buying a 
house. How to evaluate foundations, dry rot, electrical 
and plumbing systems. 
If you can make an accurate 
estimate of repairs needed, you'll know better what 
you're getting into and how much to offer. 
—-LK 
Don’t Go Buy 
Appearances 
George C. Hoffman 
1972; 84pp. 
$1 -50 postpaid 
from: 
Ballantine Books, Inc. 
457 Hahn Rd. 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
| first stand back about twenty feet and eyeball the house from 
all angles. Line up a wall. You can tell if the house is twisted 
or leaning a little. Sight down a wall from top to bottom and 
end to end. Thecorners should line up. 
If they are ‘way off, 
make a note, and we'll look to see the cause when we get 
closer. 
It could be settling in one corner from termites, dry 
rot, poor foundations, or maybe it has tipped slightly 
because it has no diagonal bracing. 
Historic Preservation 
The historic preservation movement has grown rapidly in the 
United States in the last ten or fifteen years. 
In many cities 
across the country, buildings of historic and architectural 
merit have been saved from wrecking balls, and some historic 
~ neighborhoods have been rescued from decay and destruction 
to become revitalized. The value of buildings less than 100 
years old is also being recognized and with luck this will mean 
that some of the great buildings of this century will be 
Preserved, as well as those of the Colonial or Victorian 
' periods. Hopefully, a new awareness of the urban environment 
and acceptance of recycling as a way of life will enable the 
Preservation movement to continue to gain momentum. 
The best resource to date is the National Trust for Historic 
Preservation. The National Trust was chartered by Congress 
in 1949 to “further the national policy of preserving for 
public use America’s heritage of historic districts, sites, 
buildings, structures and objects; to facilitate public participa- 
tion in the historic preservation movement and to serve that 
movement through educational and advisory programs; and to 
accept and administer for public benefit and use significant 
historic properties.” The National Trust has fulfilled its purpose 
well: 
it supplies both members and non-members with “how 
to” information on a wide array of subjects and also offers 
other valuable services. 
Membership in the National Trust (from $5.00-$500.00) 
entitles you to a number of benefits and privileges, including 
the outstanding monthly Preservation News and quarterly 
magazine Historic Preservation. Other benefits include 
discounts on merchandise at the Preservation Bookstore 
(whose catalogue of over 500 books provides a basic 
bibliography and source for information on historic preserva- 
tion); professional! counsel on preservation problems; and 
access to the National Trusts’s preservation library, archives 
and collection of slide lectures. 
For information write to: 
National Trust for Historic Preservation, 740-748 Jackson 
Place N.W., Washington D.C. 20006. 
Regional Field Offices: 
Midwestern Regional Field Office, 
1800 South Prairie 
ee 
hae 
a 
ee 
See, 
eee 
The American People 
Decenially the Census Bureau has produced a staggering array 
of statistical information which most citizens ignore because 
it is indecipherable; but which profoundly affects them 
. because it determines such things as electoral districts and 
revenue sharing, among others. How pleasant to find a 
sensible and witty journalist who can lead us through the 
thorny thickets of masses of data. Some of what Mr. Kahn 
tells is widely known: American mobility, especially to 
the suburbs, the low place of black people and the extent of 
poverty in an opulent society. But some of his delightfully 
readable information came as a surprise to me: 
the population 
drift is no longer West, but South; birth rates no longer 
reproduce death losses; and 83% of the population were 
born in the U.S. of U.S. born parents. 
The inveterate 
collector of trivia will, of course, have a field day: there are 
six female blacksmiths working in steel mills, about 2,500 
women over 55 have husbands under 25, and the category 
of computer specialist appeared for the first time in 1970, 
already 254,537 strong. 
Yet, Mr. Kahn attends to the 
really important data—— which he claims is at best only a 
poor mirror of the American people. His is a fascinating 
eh eM done with good sense, humanity and style. No 
iar, 
he. 
—George Moore 
The American People 
(The Findings of the 
1970 Census) 
E.J. Kahn, Jr. 
1973; 340pp. 
$8.95 Postpaid 
from: 
Weybright and Talley 
750 Third Avenue 
New York, NY 10017 
or Whole Earth 
(PLO 
CEATHUY 
HED: a 
Meanwhile, rural America has come to a bizarre pass. Were it 
considered an entity apart, its total acreage would make it 
the world’s ninth biggest land mass. But in terms of income, 
with the country’s unmatched wealth even more concentrated 
than its citizens, these hinterlands would at the same time be 
the world’s sixth largest underdeveloped nation, backward in 
income, in housing, and in education, and outstanding only—— 
the plight of many urban residents notwithstanding—— in 
poverty. 
e 
The Fourth of December 1972 could turn out to be a mile- 
stone date for the United States—— a day as historic as the 
Fourth of July, the birthdate of any President, or the 
termination date of any war. For that was the day on which 
it was announced, somewhat to the Census Bureau’s surprise, 
that American women had finally got around to bearing 
children at a rate below the critical figure of 2.11 per capita 
and had thus, for the time being at least, transformed their 
nation into one that had attained a Zero Population Growth 
rate. 
If every man and woman produced exactly enough offspring 
to replace themselves, the Z.P.G. figure would, 
of course, be 
an even “'2."" The extra eleven-hundredths that statisticians 
have appended is supposed to allow for those unfortunate 
females who die before reaching child-bearing age and by 
so doing throw statistics involving reproduction out of kilter. 
Consequential as the 2.11 may be to demographers, the 
figure probably crosses the minds of no more than something 
like .00211 percent of the women who collectively determine 
whether or not a society exceeds it, falls below it, or, 
improbably, hits it right on the mark. On that December 
fourth, without any particular fanfare from the White 
House (which was then preoccupied with reducing the 
population of North Vietnam), American women were found 
to be having children at the rate of 2.08 apiece. (By March 
1973 they were down to 2.03.) Even during the Depression, 
when there was a marked decline in the size of American 
families, the rate had never dipped below 2.2. As a result of 
the startling new low birth rate, the population of the United 
States increased during 1972 by only 0.7 percent. 
[Don’t be misled by these figures friends. At this rate, the 
population of USA will be double what it is now by year 
2000. According to what I’ve read recently, the US popu- 
lation increased by more than 2 million in 19731] 
—JB 
Avenue, Chicago, IL 60616, and Western Regional Field 
Office, 802 Montgomery St., San Francisco, CA 94133. 
There is an excellent guide available to historic preservation 
on a more personal level. This is Buying and Renovating a 
House in the City by Deidre Stanforth and Martha Stamm, 
Alfred A Knopf, New York 1972, $4.95. This well-written 
book covers the entire range of problems and considerations 
in buying and renovating a city house. 
It deals with selecting 
the neighborhood and the specific house, how to get 
financing, problems of construction and renovation, legal 
problems, and a number of other areas. 
Included are a 
; 
variety of meaningful case histories and an excellent section 
on the restoration histories of neighborhoods around the 
country. A House in the City is an invaluable how-to- 
do-it guide for the prospective buyer and provides new 
insights for those who simply want to learn more about 
the problems and potentials of historic preservation and 
[EROvarIE 
—Carol Pollock 
If exploitive agribusiness is what is wrong with the countr, 
something very similar is what is wrong with the equally 
essential city. (Our “Whole Earth” lauding of the rural lif 
is urban to its toenails.) Ecological/political critic Bookch 
here argues out the roots of what makes our rities negate 
themselves. 
“Design” 
has little to do with it all. 
—SB 
The Limits of the City 
Murray Bookchin 
1974; 147pp. 
$2.75 Postpaid 
from: 
Harper Colophon Books 
Harper & Row Gen. Bks. 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Historically, the basis for a vital urban entity consisted not 
primarily of its design elements but of the nuclear relations 
between people that produced these elements. Human scal 
was more than a design on a drawing board; it emerged fro 
the intimate association provided by the clan, the guild, an 
the civic union of free, independent farmers and craftsmen, 
Knitted together at the base of a civic entity, people create 
a city that formally and structurally sheltered their most 
essential and meaningful social relations. 
If these relations 
were balanced and harmonious, so too were the design 
elements of the city. If. on the other hand, they were 
distorted and antagonistic, the design elements of the city 
revealed this in its monumentalism and extravagant growth 
Hierarchical social relations proauced hierarchical space; 
egalitarian relations, egalitarian space. 
Until city planning 
addresses itself to the need for a radical critique of the 
prevailing society and draws its design elements from a 
revolutionary transformation of existing social relations, it 
will remain mere ideology—— the servant of the very socie 
that is producing the urban crisis of our time. 
Old Glory 
Your town has origins. So does your family. 
This 
a splendid book about how to find and preserve an 
parade them. 
There is such a thing as cultural good 
ecology. Savor your own peculiar community’s 
weirdness. Savor some other people’s. 
—SB 
$4.95 Postpaid 
from: 
Warner Paperback Library 
75 Rockefeller Plaza 
New York, NY 10019 
or Whole Earth 
Old Glory 
(A pictorial report on the 
Grass Roots History Move- 
ment and The First Home- 
town History Primer) 
James Robertson, Ed. 
1973; 191pp. 
Blakely, Georgia 
| Jus’ Learn‘d It 
If It Weren’t For One 
“Hands to Work and Hearts to God.” 
Canterbury, New Hampshire 
Believer 
What happens to a town when its one industry closes d 
Empty streets, creaking doors and wind whistling dow! 
forgotten alleys? Not in Pocahontas. People there hav 
idea that may bring enough visitors into town to keep i 
alive. They're not doing anything new—— tn fact, Hist 
Pocahontas, Inc., is doing everything old. They’ve disc 
that the town’s most valuable natural resource just mig 
its gaudy coal mining past. 
