COMMUNITY 
628 _ 
titro4 
* A Chinese Village, by Martin C. Yang (Columbia 
University, 1965, (orig. publ. 1945), paper, 263 pp., 
$2.25) is an anthropological study of Taitou village, in the 
northern Chinese province of Shantung. The author was 
born and raised in this village. He describes the People, 
agriculture, the family, ceremonies, child training, village 
conflicts and the way in which such villages fitted into the 
larger mosaic of Chinese rural life. Yang is most interested 
in how the traditional Chinese village hangs together as a 
unit. 
. 
Living as we do in the midst of a society, where village and 
community are being eviscerated by various non-oriental 
dragons like progress, one can not help but read A Chinese 
Village and feel a sense of loss. The average peasant worked 
hard, was poor, and perhaps perished in a system so stacked 
against him that survival itself was in question. But he did 
live within a context which could provide him basic social 
a Instead of television sets, he had family and 
village. 
A revolution is not a tea party, or writing an essay, or 
painting a picture, or doing embroidery; it can not be so 
refined, so leisurely and gentle, so temperate, kind, 
courteous, restrained, and magnanimous. A revolution is 
an insurrection, an act of violence by which one class 
overthrows another. 
—(Mao Tse-tung, 
1927) 
* Fan Shen, by William Hinton (Vintage, 1971, paper, 
637 pp., $2.95) is one of the most interesting and 
significant books on China in the English language. In 
Chinese, Fan Shen means literally ‘‘to turn over the body.” 
This book is the story of a village, Long Bow, which “turns 
Over” in the late forties through the bloody expropriation 
of land from the landlords. 
Hinton tells of the process whereby the peasants of Long 
Bow slowly got their courage up, took back the land by 
killing a landlord, and then slowly pieced the small plots 
together in a more rational and sensible system of 
cultivation. Don’t miss this one, farmers of America. You'll 
never be the same afterwards: “‘Land Reform”... could it 
happen in America? 
The ruthless way in which the slightest defiance on the part 
of the tenants and laborers was supressed over the years, 
created in the peasant a deep, almost instinctive reluctance 
to mount an attack against the power of the gentry. Revolt 
after revolt had been crushed during the 20 centuries of 
gentry rule. Those who had raised their heads to lead them 
had either been bought off or had their heads severed. Their 
followers had been cut to pieces, burned, flayed or buried 
alive. Gentry in Taihang proudly showed foreigner visitors 
leather articles made from human skin. Such events and 
such mementos were part of the cultural heritage of every 
peasant in China. 
—(Bill Hinton, 1948) 
Students volunteering to fight in Korea. 
* fron Oxen, also by William Hinton (Vintage, 1971, paper, 
245 pp., $1.95), is the story of one of the early communist 
collective farms in China. The iron oxen (T’ieh niu) are 
tractors. Hinton worked on one of China’s first mechanized 
State Farms as a tractor mechanic and teacher, in a land 
reclamation project. He describes the perserverence of the 
peasants as they learned about the tractors for the first time. 
One is struck by their commitment to the idea of ‘‘self- 
sufficiency,’’ an idea repeatedly stressed then and nowasa 
cardinal virtue. 
Many people in this country who have experimented in ; 
communal living and collective work arrangements will find 
the sections where Hinton describes the endless meetings 
and the manner in which the Chinese criticized one another 
and dealt with one another’s weaknesses as most interesting. 
Criticism was often plentiful and biting. But rarely did it 
seem to pierce ina hurtful calculated way, or to wound the 
pride or ego of the offender. Criticism on this farm seemed 
to serve the function of pointing up ways in which each 
Ss 
> 
$ 
So 
=] 
i} 
<= 
a 
person could serve himself and others better against a common 
danger. 
This is a fascinating book. While it will not tell budding 
farmers much about agricultural techniques, it does tell a lot 
about how the Chinese work together to make things grow. 
Conscientious practice of self criticism is still another 
hallmark distinguishing our Party from all other political 
parties, As we say, dust will accumulate if a room is not 
cleaned regularly; or faces will get dirty if they are not 
washed regularly. Our comrades’ minds and our Party’s work 
may 
also collect dust and also need sweeping and washing. 
The proverb, “Running water is never stale, a door hinge is 
never worm eaten,” means that constant motion prevents 
the inroad of germs and other organisms. 
—(Mao Tse-tung, 1945) 
* The Transformation of the Chinese Earth, by Keith 
Buchanan, (Praeger, 1972, hardback, 336 pp., $12.50) tells 
the story of how the Chinese succeeded in eliminating hunger 
in China through land reform, collectivizing fields, 
communizing the peasantry, much hard work and an 
innovative spirit. 
In truth, there has been very little written in English on 
Practical problems; Chinese methods of composting, 
fertilizing, (they are using an increasing amount of chemical 
fertilizer), planting, tilling, crop varieties or pest control. 
Out of necessity they have been very conscious of re-using 
all human and animal waste for agriculture. One of the 
slogans, ‘All waste is treasure,’’ expresses a healthy respect 
for the power of livestock manure and sludge from sewage 
treatment. Many large cities are surrounded by agricultural 
belts to which nutrient-high treated sewage waste water is 
Pumped and used for irrigation. (See ‘““Environment.’’) 
Mechanization of agriculture is still in the early stages. Just 
how far they will push it in view of their vast supply of 
inexpensive manual labor is unclear. But it is unlikely they 
will carry it to the extremes we have in this country where 
it has deprived an ever growing number of agricultural 
laborers of their jobs. In China the emphasis is on solving 
human problems rather than garnering profit. 
In any event, the collectivization of agriculture has allowed 
for the combining of the millions of small private plots 
(often no larger than a room) into larger fields and paddies 
which lend themselves to mechanized tilling, planting and 
harvesting. All land, except small household plots, is farmed 
collectively in China. There is no private property. (There 
is a good section on the collectivization of agriculture in 
The China Reader; Communist China, Vol || (pp. 170-192.) 
Other sources on the more practical problems in Chinese 
farming can be found in frequent articles in the magazine 
China Reconstructs, and less frequently in the Peking 
Review. (See ‘Magazines and Periodicals.’’) 
Organic Gardening Magazine (published monthly by Rodale 
Press, 33 East Minor St., Emmaus, Penna. 18049. $5.85 per 
year) also has carried several articles on Chinese agriculture. 
The Magazine’s Editor, Robert Rodale, took a trip to China 
and has written several articles (see Vol. 20, no. 6, June 
1973, “Walking Through China’s Garden’’). 
ENVIRONMENT 
Almost unbelievably, there has been no book written on how 
the Chinese approach their environment. Their approach has 
been unique, and in many ways presents a very hopeful 
alternative model. China is a poor country, and has always 
born the necessity of frugality. But they have gone farther, 
and transformed frugality into a virtue as well. They have 
placed great emphasis on what they call ‘‘comprehensive 
use’’; using every part of every natural resource in any 
industrial process. They have no private transportation. They 
encourage low levels of individual consumption; washers, 
TVs, radios, farm equipment, machines, refrigerator units 
etc. are all shared. Factories, as a matter of economics are 
encouraged to find ways to process wastes into usable 
products. In short, China is a nation in which “‘waste”’ as 
a reality and a concept is almost non-existent. 
Wherever we happen to be, we must treasure our manpower 
and material resources, and must not take a short view and 
indulge in wastefullness and extravagance. 
—(Mao Tse-tung, 1945) 
An industrialist and his wife, who decided to stay when his factories were 
taken over by the state. He has added Mao's bust to the mantelpiece, and kept 
his comfortable house. He will receive five percent of the value of his 
factories as estimated by the government. 
* Doing Battle With Nature, Landscape Modification and 
Resource Utilization in the People’s Republic of China, 
1960-1972 by Cristopher Salter (Occassional Paper no. 1, 
Asian Studies Committee, University of Oregon, Eugene, 
Oregon. $4.00) is a little known but fabulously interesting 
Marc 
Riboud 
Doing Battle with Nature 
bibliography. Salter has collected 95 pages of bibliography 
of all the English language articles in the Chinese and 
western press which relate to China and her relations to 
natural resources, land, environment and development. It 
is well indexed into tantalizing subjects like ““multiple-use’ 
“orchards”, “parks”, ‘petroleum’, “‘sewage’’, ‘‘water 
conservancy”, “waste utilization’’, ‘“chemicals’’, 
“industrialization’’, etc. The only problem is that most of 
these articles appear in scholarly journals and collections of 
translations put out by the US Government which are only 
available in large libraries. (See “‘Where to Find Good 
Translations of Chinese Articles, etc.’’) 
Still, there are man| 
references to Peking Review, China Reconstructs, etc. 
which are readily available. 
The Process of production is one in which man knows, 
transforms, and utilizes nature. But natures’ resources canni 
be fully utilized by producing one product. In making one 
product, resources are partially transformed into this produ 
and the rest becomes “‘waste”’. The question is how to look 
at this “waste”... from which point of view and with which 
attitude? 
From the metaphysical point of view, “waste” can not b¢ 
used and should be gotten rid of. On the contrary, the 
materialist dialectical point of view holds that what is 
“waste” and what is not “‘waste”’ is relative. There is 
nothing in the world which is absolute ‘‘waste’’. “Waste” 
under one condition may be valuable under different ones. 
“Waste materials” left from one product can become a gool 
material for another product. After being transformed and 
utilized, “waste material’ can become a product or a use{ill 
material. 
—(Writing group of the Tien 
Municipal Revolutionary 
Committee, 1971) 
* China Tames Her Rivers, (Foreign Languages Press, 1972, 
Paper, 51 pp., $.35) is a short pamphlet which describes 
some of the massive campaigns in water conservation and 
flood control which the Chinese launched to control the 
rampaging Yellow and Huai Rivers. Both rivers have built 
up river beds above ground level with silt over the years. 
They are diked to contain seasonal floods and the dikes 
often break. The Yellow River, nicknamed, ‘““China’s 
Sorrow”, traditionally wrought almost yearly destruction t 
millions. It now has been subdued. 
A ten kilometer long sewage disposal canal has been built 
in Changchun (a large city in Manchuria). It carries off sew" 
water which used to flow into the Yitung River which cuts 
across the city. The sewage water drains off to irrigate 
farmland on the outskirts. This has helped improve the 
cities environmental sanitation and has increased vegetable 
and grain output... The people’s communes, using sewage 
water which contains nitrogen and phosphorous to irrigate 
| 
their farmlands, save a total of about 3,500 tons of chemict 
fertilizer a year. 
—(Ta Kung Pao newspaper, 
1971) 
* Man Against Flood, by Rewi Alley (New World Press, 
1956, paper, 109 pp., $1.25) is written by a New Zealande! 
who has spent his life in China. He records the devastating 
1954 Yang Tze River flood and the steps taken to remedy 
it. 
Pollution of the environment is not only unhealthy to peop 
it is destructive to nature. It destroys crops, creates hazard 
