Racing Ordinary, 1887 
Safety Racer, 1892 
eague of American Wheelmen 
» 1898, this cyclist’s organization had over 100,000 
embers and lobbied for the nation’s first paved 
pads, off of which they were promptly driven by 
e automobile. Today they have local chapters 
ross the country, and are active advocates for 
e protection and support of the bicycle as 
pplemental safe transportation. 
They’re also the 
pst people to contact about joining or organizing 
our. Don’t be put off by the name—— lots of 
ale peddlers in their ranks. 
—AF 
pr information, write: 
League of American Wheelmen 
19 South Bothwell 
Palatine, |L 60067 
icycle Security 
- 
There is no way to make an exposed bicycle 
positively theft-proof. 
Always lock your bike in a place where attempts 
at lock-busting will be obvious to passers-by. 
A lightweight cable or chain will foil only a 
jump-on-and-pedal thief. 
An un-locked, un-attended bicycle will disappear. 
ock/Chain for Commuters 
you’re using your bike for commuting, the best security 
lution is a 9/32” “Cam-alloy” case-hardened chain with 
plastic tube around it, and a substantial case-hardened 
adlock. 
This will be heavy, so leave it locked overnight 
ere you park. Plan on spending at least $20. Better yet, 
tition your employer to provide storage space indoors. 
—AF 
e Safe —— Be Seen 
Reflective Vest: A very light nylon-screen “‘sleeveless 
ape’’ which has bands of Day-Glo and reflective material 
N on the front and back is made by the American Safety 
ag Co. (Division of Vogue Industries) in Pawtucket, 
ode Island. The mesh allows for air circulation and the 
t is practically (physically) unnoticeable in use. The 
akers claim that their pattern of reflective and Day-Glo 
eterials makes for better visibility than if the whole vest 
Dwed. 
It sure makes you show up. 
Big Red Taillights: These are made by several companies, 
dstly in England. They use two D-cells and are quite 
ght and the batteries last much longer than the C-cells 
armlights. Get a light that is visible from both the side 
d rear and mount it so that it shows through the wheel 
the other side. Ever-Ready (U.K.) and Star-lite are 
lO brand names that are good. Being British, the Ever-ready 
St be mounted on the right side: the Star-lite is more 
Smopolitan and can go on either side. Try not to let 
bike fall over on the tail-light. 
_ 
Headlight: At night, a headlight which can be easily 
en by someone “off the starboard bow”’ is your main 
Otection against somebody opening his door into your 
h. This, to me, is the final argument against reliance 
armlights for nighttime visibility. (This was how | got 
broken leg). Headlights are also useful to help you see 
ere you are going. Generator lights are the brightest and 
us the most impressive and useful. They also reduce your 
ance on the energy vendors. Be sure that the light you 
goes out to the side as well as ahead, but take care to 
ep it out of your eyes as it hampers your night vision. 
—John Hart 
Kryptonite Bike Lock 
The current state-of-the-art in portable bicycle locks. 
The Model I!!! weighs 1.75 pounds and will resist even 
the most determined and ingenious thief for several 
minutes, during which his theft attempt will be obvious 
to anyone nearby. A specially-designed carrying 
bracket incorporates the entire device into the frame 
for rattleless riding. 
—AF 
Kryptonite III Bike Lock 
$18.95 postpaid 
from: 
KBL Corporation 
20 East Concord St. 
Boston, MA 02118 
or Whole Earth 
BETTER YOUR EXIT STRIKES AGAIN 
In town there’s a supermarket with a truck parked in 
front, filled with cardboard cartons containing foodstuffs. 
A slide of metal rollers protrudes from the open door on 
the side of the truck down onto the sidewalk. A separate 
section of slide protrudes up onto the sidewalk from the 
basement of the supermarket. 
A young black man is standing on the sidewalk between 
the two sections of slide. 
A second young black man inside 
the truck is rolling carton after carton down the slide. The 
first man catches each carton and puts it on the rollers of 
the slide going into the basement. He stops periodically to 
let folks walking on the sidewalk pass through. 
You Are the Sunshine of My Life, Stevie Wonder is 
radio-serenading Rosebud Zwalyimeh and Tongue Fu, while 
she drives the little-American-flag-decal-covered Volkswagen 
into town, both of them eating Maharishi Hashish Yogurt 
along the way. 
y 
She parks the car in the supermarket parking lot, and 
they walk toward the entrance holding hands. 
The slide to the basement gets jammed. The man on the 
sidewalk starts to adjust the bunched-up cartons, but the 
man in the truck continues sliding down more cartons. Now 
the man on the sidewalk must use his other hand in order 
to keep them back at the same time. 
“Hold it!” he calls out. “Hold it!” 
He’s stuck there, with his arms outstretched, inadvertently 
blocking the only passageway that had remained on the 
sidewalk. 
: 
Rosebud and Tongue Fu arrive at this point. She 
spontaneously kisses the helpless man on the cheek. 
Letting go of Tongue Fu’s hand, she ducks under the laughing 
black man’s arm. ., . 
Flashiebackie: 
A black activist, the boyfriend of a younger Rosebud 
Zwalyimeh, is laughing at her. 
“I'm serious,” she says. “‘It gnaws at me to try and 
identify with One Man, One Vote.” 
“That's just semantics,” he says. “| mean, you know, 
man embraces woman.” He attempts to hug her but she 
pulls away. 
“No. | can’t separate our personal relationship from the 
movement. I’m through with double standards. | want 
equality.” 
“Do you know that when | was a kid, | wanted to be 
white so badly that | used a razor blade to make a part in 
my kinky hair?” 
“Well, | worked in a law office and had to bleach the 
hair on my legs so it wouldn't show through my stockings. 
So I’ve been niggerized too.” 
- 
Rally Racks 
It is only dawning on people and planners that bicycles have 
to be thought of as a transportation system. 
Bike /anes ate 
an obvious requirement; less obvious is adequate provision 
for public bicycle parking. 
Rally Enterprises manufactures 
a line of bike racks, including a coin-operated self-locking 
rack (unit cost: $74.95). Bring this up at your next city 
council/student body /union meeting. 
—AF 
Rally Racks 
Catalog and information 
available from: 
Rally Enterprises, Inc. 
P.O. Box 601 
Mill Valley, CA 94941 
“We're certainly not the same emotionally, though. 
| could have a casual affair, but it’s different with chicks. 
You have to get involved with every guy you sleep with.” 
“First of all, that’s not necessarily true. But | just want 
the option. | have the right to get involved with any guy 
I sleep with. That's the risk of freedom. I’m not your slave.” 
“You mean I’m not supposed to ever get jealous?” 
“That's the last politics,” she says. ““Jealousy is the 
difference between love and possession.” 
“But it’s always been so good with us in bed.” 
“That’s not enough any more.” 
“Sheeeit.”” He forces himself sexually upon her. 
Just before he comes, he says, “I love you.” 
“Well,”” she sobs, ““you finally made it. You’ve become 
white ....”” 
Tongue Fu kisses the laughing black man on the other 
cheek, ducks under his other arm and rejoins hands with 
Rosebud. They separate again to help get the cartons 
straightened out on the slide. Then they head for the 
supermarket entrance. 
“Open, sesame seed,’”’ Rosebud gestures, and the 
automatic glass door obeys her command. 
Tongue Fu gives her a ride in a supermarket cart. 
Rosebud puts a can of frozen orange juice down his 
back. 
They go on the little rides that are there to divert 
children from mischief. 
Then they examine with a haughty air the gourmet 
delicacy rack. 
Tongue Fu picks up a package of truffles and asks a 
Passing clerk, ‘’What are these?” 
“& dollar-forty-nine.” 
Rosebud strolls alongside the meat display counter, 
printing on the respective price cards, Dead Cows and 
Dead Pigs and Dead Chickens, with a magic marker. 
Suddenly three gunshots are heard from outside. 
Frizzie-haired Innocence from Camp Crap has 
apparently killed both of those young black men and then 
herself. In her pocket is found this handwritten suicide 
note: 
There is going to be famine in the United States as well 
as Pakistan. 
’ 
I cannot bear the thought of living with the knowledge 
that people are starving to death. 
I shall take the lives of two others along with my own. 
They are integral parts in the chain of food distribution. 
They are traitors to their blackness. 
In keeping with the principle of Better Your Exit, I 
have decided to make an example of them. 
There will be more such examples by other members 
unless everyone starts fasting. 
This is the most effective way to make that demand 
known. 
I apologize for disturbing your afternoon. 
—BYE Communication #2 
“It doesn’t make any sense,” says Rosebud. “She was 
the one who said ‘Live your alternative’ on TV Ching.” 
“Perhaps,” replies Tongue Fu, “this was her alternative.’” 
[Continued, page 647] 
SOG
