ss 
INTRODUCTION 
TO WOODCARVING TOOLS 
by Bruce Erman 
agine that the camping hike you've planned will be taking 
ou 
through the famous site of the Fallen Tree-Trunk, where 
ateurs and professional wood-carvers alike have chipped 
ay and added to an evolving sculpture for over 100 years! 
r, fancy carving an intricate pattern on the door of the 
hain entrance of your own home, ornamenting a head-board 
pr your bed— or even crafting an entire bed itself— posts, 
anopy, and all! 
hether you plan to spend only an afternoon carving during 
camping trek, or devoting entire days to creating at your 
workshop, the following information on shapes, sizes, 
d uses of the many available types of wood-carving tools 
ill undoubtedly prove necessary to your basic selection of 
quipment. 
Shapes, Sizes, and Uses 
lood-carving tools are usually measured across the widest 
art of the cutting edge (chisels, skews, gouges, fishtails), 
xcept parting tools, measured on one side at the cutting 
dge. This width is called the “sweep.”” 
tool’s name usually indicates its particular function. 
ARTING TOOLS usually have either a 459 or 609 “V" 
aped cutting edge. Naturally, the smaller the ““V"’ the 
arrower the cut. Used for outlining, roughing-out 
ndercutting), and finishing inside corners. 
EINING TOOLS are the smallest sizes of straight gouges 
ind have narrow but deep ‘’U” shaped cutting edges for 
rooving and roughing-out small areas or lines. 
LUTERS (firmers) are straight gouges, larger and wider 
an Veining tools. Whereas the deepest ““U’’ shaped cutting 
dges are for roughing-out, the flatter the edge, the more the 
pol is used for smoothing and finishing. 
HISELS have straight cutting edges occurring at 909 to the 
lane of the shank of the tool; their sweep ranges narrow to 
ide, and they are used for flat-cutting and finishing, as well 
is for sharp edges. The Macaroni (box) chisel has the shape 
jf a square-bottomed ‘’U” and is a specialized tool for 
raight-fluting and flat-cornering. 
KEWS are chisels whose straight cutting edge are ground 
about a 45° angle and are excellent for cornering. They 
e available to skew-left or skew-right, depending on the 
pe of cutting desired; and sweep is similar to straight 
isels, 
ONG-BENT GOUGES (curved-fluters) correspond to 
raight gouges given a concave curve along the length of 
e whole shank of the tool. Available in sweep narrow 
einers) to wide, and used for such purposes as roughing- 
t or hollowing-out. Long-bent chisels and parting tools 
e also available. 
POON GOUGES (short-bent gouges) have a straight shank 
ith a concave “’spoon-shaped” crook, or bend, at the 
itting-end. The sweep may vary from narrow to wide, 
id from that of a parting tool to a veiner, straight gouge, 
isel, or skew. Spoon gouges reach into roughed-out areas 
d hollows for the purpose of smoothing. 
ACK-BENT GOUGES (short—) are like spoon gouges but 
‘@ convex-shaped curves bending backward from the 
lank. Sweeps available from narrow to wide and also in 
isel-form. Back-bent gouges are useful in clearing 
12 
MAIL-ORDER SOURCES 
DDR 
: 
ND NAME 
1. Art Consultants 
David Strassman 
100 E. 7th St. 
_NY, NY 10009 
2. Buck Brothers, Inc. 
Buck 
Millbury, Mass. 01527 
3. Dirty Rainbow Artists’ 
__ 
Materials 
2514 Durant Ave. 
_ Berkeley, Ca., 94704 
Marples 
iL 
King (Sculpture House) 
Sculpture Associates 
undersides and for making abrupt down-turns. 
FISH-TAIL GOUGES resemble the posterior-—, or tail-fin, 
of a fish. Available also as a chisel, and in sweep narrow to 
extremely wide, the latter size known as a “Swiss pattern- 
maker” tool. Without interfering with nearby edges, this 
tool provides clean cuts in tight or sharp corners and may 
also serve somewhat like a straight gouge. Also available in 
chisel form. 
In general, sizes of tools, stamped-in on the shank or handles, 
give the radius of curvature. Tools of the same series or 
style number, although available in various sweeps, all 
Possess the same radius of curvature: i.e., no. 4— 1/8”; 
no. 4— 5/16"; no. 4— 7/8”; no. 4— %""— all curve to the 
same degree. 
Thus, tools of flat— or lesser curvature have low size- 
numbers and make shallow cuts (finishing tools), while 
tools of greater curvature have higher size-numbers and 
make deeper cuts. 
Choosing Tools 
It is difficult for one to manufacture his/her own wood- 
Carving tools. Therefore, it is often recommended that 
students, beginners, and elementary wood-carvers begin 
with “amateur” tools, which have shorter-length shanks 
than “professional” tools, supposedly making them easier 
to handle. These tools usually come in sets which are 
prepared with a basic and practical selection of straight 
chisels and gouges, accompanied by one or several parting 
tools, skews, long- or short-bent gouges, and spoon gouge. 
Mallet and sharpening stones usually are extra. 
Professional tools, with longer shanks, allow more work to 
be accomplished at once. But usually, the sizes and sweeps 
of professional-length and amateur-length tools are identical. 
Tools are variously honed and/or sharpened, depending on 
the specific make. Most often, the blades and shanks of the 
tools are full-finished clean and smooth. 
Handles are usually of wood but are available in a number 
of styles: round; octagonal; squared, with angled-edges; 
handles with single- and double-hoops: usually a brass ring 
ferrule at one or both ends, to give added strength; plastic- 
ended handles, for added strength; leather-capped handles 
2 
4. Ettl Studios, Inc. 
Ettl Art Center 
, 
Greenwich, Conn. 06830 
Henry Taylor 
5. Frank Mittermeier, Inc. 
David Strassman 
3577 E. Tremont Ave. 
Bronx, NY., 10465 
6. Sculpture Associates, Ltd. 
Sculpture Associates 
114 East 25th St. 
NY, NY 10010 
7. Sculpture House, Inc. 
King 
38 East 30th St. 
NY, NY 10016 
8. Sculpture Services, Inc. 
David Strassman 
9 East 19th St. 
NY, NY 10003 
(again, for added strength); and plastic or rubberoid handles. 
Angled-handles help keep tools from rolling, and the various 
types of special ends help the tool give extra wear by taking 
extra pressure. 
Tools should be sharpened frequently. 
The Mallet 
Mallets are available in various types of construction, wood, 
and weight. Although lignum vitae is the heaviest, most 
popular of the hardwoods, several other types of hardwood 
mallets are available: Maple, Hickory, Boxwood, and 
Beachwood. 
Mallets are usually hand-turned, and balanced. Many are 
solid-body construction, but some have separate, wedge-set 
handles. Mallets will be found available measured by the 
inch in diameter at the broadest end, by the ounce-weight, 
or by both. For example, a 2%" Boxwood; a 1 Ib. 9 oz. 
Lignum Vitae; a 16 oz. —3" White Hickory; a 15 oz. —3%" 
English Beechwood; a 24 oz. —4” Maple. 
Some mallets are manufactured of carefully chosen dense 
wood cores which are laminated together and then lathe- 
turned, to assure a density of volume. 
Smaller, lighter mallets are recommended for beginners, but 
the experienced wood-carver will probably have several 
mallets of varying weight and wood. 
With this bit of introduction, more-and-more camping 
trails should begin to have sculptured trail-markers; more 
homes should abound with lovely, well-ornamented portals; 
and more-and-more amateur and professional wood-carvers 
will be getting a good night's sleep in beds they've crafted 
with their own two hands. 
Written by 
Bruce Erman 
January 1974 
c/o Dirty Rainbow 
Artists’ Materials 
2514 Durant Ave. 
Berkeley, Ca. 94704 
9. Heid! Slocum Co., Inc. 
78-82 Reade St. 
NY, NY 10008 
Henry Taylor 
10. Stewart Clay Co. 
Henry Taylor & 
133 Mulberry St. 
domestic 
NY, NY 10013 
11. Woodcraft Supply Co. 
Sorby 
313 Montvale Ave. 
Marples 
Woburn, Mass. 01801 
12. Jack D. Wolfe Co. 
King 
724-734 Meeker Ave. 
Brooklyn, NY 11222 
ane 
Pos 
(IN
aE 
| 
’ 
} 
| 
