Beth “Chicken Little” Fairbanks and the Perma-Pak YEAR’S 
SUPPL Y of food. 
There are a number of firms handling food products 
for home storage that market package deals on a 
“year's supply” of dehydrated and freeze dried foods. 
Charles Hartman, sales manager for Pioneer Foods, 
reports that he has seen prices recently varying from 
$274 to $523 for the basic unit which is intended to 
feed one person for one year. Here are some prices for 
a year’s supply, quoted by several of the more popular 
storage food companies: 
Pormia-rate, Inc... 
srss. « ./0 Doses $383.70, Basic Unit 
40 East 2430 South 
$447.40, Basic Unit 
Salt Lake City, UT 84115 
+ 2 Supplements 
(FOB Salt Lake City) 
$425.00, FOB Des Moines 
shipping charge $20 to 
either coast 
Pioneer Foods 
215 East Third St. 
Des Moines, lowa 50309 
$395.00, (400 Ibs.) 
FOB Santa Barbara 
Lanello Reserves 
2112 Santa Barbara 
Santa Barbara, Calif. 93105 
$342 (207% Ibs 
FOB Colton) 
(Basic Unit with wheat, 
18 month supply) 
Sam-Andy Dehydrated Foods.... 
525 South Rancho 
Colton, California 92324 
FSP Foods 
6200 Hollis Street 
Emeryville, Calif. 94608 
Units at $375 and 
$460 (400 Ibs.) 
FOB Emeryville 
Bernard Food Industries, Inc. ... 
Box 487 
San Jose, Calif. 95103 
-Does not package a 
“vear’s supply’’ per se; 
customer may choose 
supply from product 
lists; shipments of over 
$200 are pre-paid 
You should be aware of several factors in choosing 
a supplier for your storage needs. Obtain several dis- 
tributors’ lists and make careful comparisons of what 
items are offered as part of a year’s supply——products 
making up the unit may vary considerably from one 
company to another. For instance, check how much 
wheat, if any, is part of the assortment, since wheat 
is cheaper per pound than other products. Note whether 
the distributor stipulates that he can substitute one 
product for another, without notice. You may find, as 
one buyer did, that you receive a No. 10 can of green 
peppers instead of the expected dried apples. Ask about 
delivery times——some firms have low inventories and 
are running very late with shipments. By contacting the 
central offices above, locate a sales outlet near you, to 
try out products directly and save on shipping. Deseret 
Supply Company and Sam-Andy have local distribution 
outlets nationally, with coverage most heavy in the 
Western states. 
The idea of keeping a ‘’year’s supply’ of necessi- 
ties is one that the Mormon Church has preached 
and practiced since Brigham Young advised, 
“Brethren... lay up grain and flour, and save it against 
a day of scarcity. Sisters... aid your husbands in 
storing it up against a day of want, and always have a 
year’s or two, provision on hand.”’ This admonition 
was particularly strengthened during the drought and 
depression of the 1930's. To counter the ‘‘dust 
bow!" conditions and joblessness that brought poverty 
to farm and city dwellers alike, Mormon leader Harold 
B. Lee inaugurated the ‘Church Security Program.” 
Believing in individual self-reliance and communal care 
of the needy within their own church, the Latter-Day 
Saints have set up around 130 “‘Bishop’s Storehouses”’ 
to stock and distribute foods that are produced on 
Mormon farms and in Mormon mills. 
Church families are constantly reminded of their 
duty to have a “‘year’s supply’’ on hand. 
Ina recent 
interview in the Los Angeles Times, John Russon, 
a representative of the Council of Twelve in the 
Bakersfield/Pomona Region, estimated that about one- 
fourth of Mormon families in his area have set aside 
food for a year in their garages, basements and closets. 
Another estimate, by Dr. R. David Lauper, a group 
leader in the Elders Quorum in a New York ward, is 
that as many as 30% to 40% of Mormons nationwide 
are stockpiling food. 
Dr. Lauper remarks, ‘‘People 
used to laugh at us for storing food .. but now that 
we've gotten so far away from being self-sufficient, 
the threat of food shortages is real.’’ 
Most of the books about food storage plans, 
procedures and practical advice are written by Mor- 
mons, primarily for Mormons. With that in mind, here 
- 
are brief evaluations of some of the more useful of 
these publications, which afforded much good infor- 
mation for this article: 
Gateway to Survival is 
Storage (12th Edition) 
‘Walter D. Batchelor 
1937, 1973; 35pp. 
$ 75 postpaid 
from: 
Walter D. Batchelor 
6120 E. Boston St. 
Mesa, AZ 85205 
or Whole Earth 
Least expensive of the storage sourcebooks, with the most 
information for your money; first printed in 1937, now in 
its 12th, newly revised edition (Oct. ‘73). Often quoted in 
other books, Batchelor includes considerably less religio- 
political commentary than other storage writers. 
Brief, 
concise instructions for planning and carrying out a food 
storage program; no recipes. 
Family Storage Plan 
Bob R. Zabriskie 
1966; 58pp. 
$1.75 postpaid 
from: 
— 
Bookcraft, Inc. 
1848 West 2300 S. 
Salt Lake City, UT 84120 
or Whole Earth 
’ Good information both on the “four basic foods” and 
canned goods storage. Provides a variety of excellent 
procedures and tips, but also includes quite a few pages 
of homilies and quotations from church authorities; 
relatively little social/political discussion. Published in 
1966. 
Passport to Survival 
Esther Dickey 
1969; 180pp. 
: $3.95 postpaid 
from: 
Bookcraft, Inc. 
1848 West 2300 S. 
Salt Lake City, Utah 84120 
or Whole Earth 
> 
Food storage program based on the four “‘survival foods,” 
with extensive section of innovative recipes designed to get 
the most variety out of this restricted diet. The book's 
introduction tends toward prophetic melodrama but the 
text gives cheerful, clear instructions about how to prepare 
for emergency situations. Published in1969, Passport to 
Survival is in its 15th printing (revised 1973); shortly to 
come from the publisher is a second volume which will be 
“one-third gardening, one-third storing and using, and 
One-third emergency preparedness and energy use.”” 
eR 
Br eG 
et ae ea Sei 7 oy. Ros'ed 
How to Be Prepared 
Roland Page 
1973; 69pp. 
$3.00 postpaid 
from: 
Independence Publications 
Box 426 
Centerville, UT 84014 
or Whole Earth 
Compiles a number of helpful procedures and charts (use 
food inventory lists, nutritional comparisons, tables of 
drying times and yields for fruits and vegetables), designs 
(homemade water distilling system, canned goods rotatio 
bin, do-it-yourself smokehouse), and suggestions (to repe 
weevils, wash your food storage containers with detergen 
rather than soap). Page takes a very hardline view on “'I2 
& order,"’ subversives, wives who are deliberately child- 
less, and the unreligious. Although he opines that his 
“writing ‘‘will have no meaning for agnostics or 
‘intellectuals’ whose mental ‘pipeline’ is only concerned 
with worldly esteem, possessions, and uninspired do- 
goodism, “‘the book is a useful resource’ 
(All of the above books are available from Bookcrat 
Publishers, 1848 West 2300 South, Salt Lake City, 
Utah.) 
The Storage Bin, 4300 South 4850 West, Granger, 
Utah, puts out a monthly magazine ‘‘dedicated to 
help people store food and prepare for the future.”’ 
For $3.00 per year or 30¢ a copy, you can get good 
ideas on basic food storage, gardening, sprouting, 
herbs and spices, and edible wild plants. 
Good Food Storage Practice 
© 
THE PROPER ROOM 
The ideal storage space is dark and cool, is dry in 
all seasons of the year, is free from steam, hot water! 
hot air pipes, and odors (particularly soap, onions an 
petroleum products), and is closed off from the rest 
the house. A basement is good——if damp, it helps ti 
paint the outside of food cans with an oil-base paint. 
If there’s no basement available, use a closet 
or garad 
on the north side of the house. 
In a small apartment 
with few storage options, you should place foodstuf 
against an outside wall during winter months when 
rooms are heated; in the summer the coolest place 
will likely be an inside wall or closet. Never store yo 
food directly on a cement floor. Use a base of wood 
slats under your cans to prevent sweating and rusting 
CRITICAL TEMPERATURES 
There are three temperatures you should keep in 
mind when storing food. One is freezing——many foo 
will deteriorate if allowed to become frozen. A seco 
is 48° F, the temperature at which most insects beco 
ative. The third is the temperature at which fat mel 
about 95° F. A general rule suggested by Bob 
Zabriskie is to maintain the lowest temperature shor 
of freezing for your storage goods. The optimum wol 
be between 40° and 60°——anything over 70° begin: 
to be detrimental. 
