_ The Psychology of Consciousness 
Consciousness, says Ornstein, has two modes of operation, 
“one mode is verbal and rational, sequential in operation, 
orderly; the other is intuitive, tacit, diffuse in operation, 
less logical and neat, a mode we often devalue, culturally, 
personally, and even physiologically.’’ The book brings 
together recent research on the two sides of the brain, 
ancient research from the esoteric psychologies, the rationale 
for meditation and a synthesis of it all. 
Ornstein uses materials from the Sufi tradition to uplevel, 
entertain, and remind the reader that reading about conscious- 
ness is not the same as understanding and that understanding 
is not experience and finally experience is different than 
knowledge. 
“‘He who tastes knows.” 
—Jim Fadiman 
The Psychology of 
Consciousness 
Robert E. Ornstein 
1972; 247pp. 
$3.50 postpaid 
from: 
W.H. Freeman & Co. 
660 Market St. 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
or Whole Earth 
Never Know When It Might Come In Useful 
Nasrudin sometimes took people for trips in his boat. One day 
a pedagogue hired him to ferry him across a very wide river. 
As soon as they were afloat, the scholar asked whether it was 
going to be rough. 
“Don’t ask me nothing about it,”’ said Nasrudin. 
“Have you never studied grammar?” 
“No,” said the Mulla. 
“In that case, half your life has been wasted.” 
The Mulla said nothing. 
Soon a terrible storm blew up. The Mulla’s crazy cockleshell 
was filling with water. He leaned over toward his companion. 
“Have you ever learned to swim?” 
“No,” said the pedant. 
“In that case, schoolmaster, all your life is lost for we are 
sinking.” 
- 
If the left hemisphere is speciatized for analysis, the right 
hemisphere (again, remember, connected to the left side of 
the body) seems specialized for holistic mentation. 
Its 
language ability is quite limited. This hemisphere is 
Primarily responsible for our orientation in space, artistic 
endeavor, crafts, body image, recognition of faces. 
It 
Processes information more diffusely than does the left 
hemisphere, and its responsibilities demand a ready integration 
of many inputs at once. 
If the left hemisphere can be termed 
predominantly analytic and sequential in its operation, then 
the right hemisphere is more holistic and relational, and more 
simultaneous in its mode of operation. 
A simplified diagram of visual input to the two hemispheres 
of the brain. Images in the left visual field are projected to 
the right hemisphere, images in the right visual field to the 
left hemisphere. 
This schematic drawing illustrates one 
experiment performed on split-brain patients: note that 
; 
the corpus callosum is cut. The “HE” and “ART” projections 
are, of course, fanciful, not anatomically correct. 
Visceral Learning 
An account, expanded from The New Yorker, of the work 
of Dr. Neal Miller. It’s the solidest survey of the biofeedback 
realm that we’ve seen. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Bruce Kelly] 
Visceral Learning 
(Toward a Science of 
Self-Control) 
Gerald Jonas 
1972; 154pp. 
$6.95 Postpaid 
from 
o 
The Viking Press, Inc. 
625 Madison Ave. 
New York, NY 10022 
or Whole Earth 
Miller is one of a handful of experimental Psychologists 
who have argued consistently (his colleagues might even 
say stubbornly) for what is known as a “global” view of 
man. He has always proceeded on the assumption that 
human behavior is all of a piece; that all responses to the 
environment, whether on a visceral or skeletal or cognitive 
level, are governed by the same basic laws—— the laws of 
instrumental learning—— and that the key to this unity is 
the continuous, multileveled integrative function Performed 
by the human brain, which he once referred to, in an 
uncharacteristic burst of rhetoric, as the “greatest miracle 
in the universe.” 
Improbable as it may sound, migraine sufferers have learned 
to turn off the pain in their head by warming up their hands 
““from the inside.” 
Body Time 
Because time is a subtler dimension than space, we 
become more easily disoriented in it, lose our natural 
- 
rhythm, and pay the consequences. 
Gay Luce restores, 
and not shallowly. 
Body Time 
Gay Gaer Luce 
1971; 411pp. 
$1.50 postpaid 
from: 
Bantam Books, Inc. 
666 Fifth Ave. 
New York, NY 10019 
or Whole Earth 
It is approximately twenty-four hours, a rhythm usually 
called circadian, from the Latin circa (around) dies (day)—— 
around a day. 
GE BIOFEEDBACK GEAR = 
by George von Hilsheimer 
Having published my first paper on biofeedback in 1966 | have 
been deeply involved in living through future shock as the 
damned hardware for this kind of fun and games goes 
through one generation after another. 
The very first thing we had came from some unremembered 
maniac and was all potted in epoxy so no one could steal the 
circuits. 
It looked like dinosaur barf and worked about as 
well. Then B. Payne up in Mass brought out one in a plastic 
box, then a neater one in an aluminum box and things were 
looking up. Many gremlins remained. 
Then came Aquarius Electronics and the several nasty rip offs 
from those nice people. 
If your thing is simple alpha wave 
feedback, and basically tripping that way with yourself and 
friends there is no better buy than the Aquarius instrument. 
Aquarius Electronics 
P.O. Box 627 
Mendocino, CA 95460 
If you want HI-FI alpha machinery then there is but one place 
to go: 
. 
Fe 
Autogenic Systems Inc. 
3804 Piedmont Ave. 
Oakland, CA 94611 
(415) 655-7017 
These lovely things range from a relatively simple, but very 
accurate and reliable alpha feedback trainer at $225 to a 
marvelous dual range analyser, the Autogen 120, which 
does everything but send out for coffee. Oh, it is so lovely 
made and so accurate and durable. You can feedback any 
The Swami was supremely confident of his abiliti 
- 
with good reason. The instruments showed that, without 
_ 
moving any of his skeletal muscles or changing his b athing 
he could make his heart beat five times faster than norma 
a pace that would be fatal if sustained. The Swami cou 
Produce a 10-degree difference in skin temperature 
bet 
the thumb and the little finger of his right hand. 
The Japanese researchers also tested the reaction of Zen 
meditators to mildly disturbing external stimulation—— 
i 
a series of twenty clicks repeated at regular fifteen-second a 
intervals. The results were surprising and provocative. Afte 
each click in the series, the alpha rhythm of the Zen meditat 
was blocked for a few seconds; then it resumed as if nothing 
had happened. This was in sharp contrast to the uninterrupted 
alpha of the Indian yogis, whose EEGs indicated that they < 
were virtually impervious to external stimuli. The Zen 
meditators’ reaction also differed sharply from that ofa 
= 
group of nonmeditating control subjects who were exposed — 
to the clicks after they had been sitting long enough with — 
their eyes closed to develop a well-organized alpha rhythm. — 
In these control subjects, the first click completely blo 
the alpha waves, but the second and third click had — Le 
Progressively less effect, and the startle reaction all but 
— 
af 
disappeared after the fourth click. Clearly, the subjects had — 
come to expect the click so it no longer disturbed them. 
In psychological jargon, they had become habituated to the — 
sound. Kasamatsu and Hirai emphasized the fact that the 
Zen meditators did not become habituated, no matter how | 
many times the click was repeated. To explain why, the 
researchers turned to the subjects’ own descriptions of the 
meditative experience: 
/ 
3 
The Zen masters reported to us that they 
had more clearly 
— 
perceived each stimulus than in their ordinary waking state. 
- 
In [the meditative] state of mind, one cannot be affected 
by either external or internal stimulus, nevertheless he is 
i 
able to respond to it. He perceives the object, responds to it, 
and yet is never disturbed by it. Each stimulus is accepted as 
stimulus itself and treated as such. One Zen master described | 
such,a state of mind as that of noticing every person one sees 
on the street but of not looking back with emotional curiosit 
\ 
If we were abandoned with some food and entertainment 
ie 
in a salt mine, we would settle down to a circadian cycle of | 
sleep and rest—— although we might oscillate at first. The — 
circadian cycle seems to be an important organizing principle 
in our physiology. People may be unaware that their body y 
temperature, blood pressure, respiration, pulse, blood sugar, - 
hemoglobin levels, and amino acid levels change—— rising 
and falling in circadian cycles. So do our adrenal hormones, — 
our urine volume, and almost every function from the rate 
of cell division to mood. Many rhythms go unnoticed. For 
instance, the skin temperature, particularly of the hands 
_ 
and feet, changes in a circadian rhythm. During sleep 
ist 
temperature is usually higher on the left side, while during — 
the day it is usually higher on the right. 
Resta 
Like the plant that flowers if given a little light at the right 
time, here may be a combination lock to human activity, 
__ 
moods, illnesses, creativity, and mental brightness. It will 
— 
Permit us to schedule teaching, therapy, performances, 
: 
travel, medication, and many of the arts of raising children 
: 
in a way that does not fight with inner timing. By understand- 
ing what we might call clockwork, we will find ourselves at 
_ 
a new threshold of mastery, a new consciousness of what 
kind of complex beasts we are, and how intimately our being 
pulses with that of the world around us. 
nea 
eo 
kind of wave you can get a brain to perform and you can 
get high selectivity. Incredible cheap at $895. 
A company that makes sturdy and reliable goodies, including 
an alpha analyzer, not quite up to Autogenic’s but one you — 
might want if you are into feeding back other goodies such 
as temperature, muscle potential and so on is: 
lesen 
Bio-Feedback Technology Inc. 
10402-F Trask Ave. 
Garden Grove, CA 92643 
We have used every one of their machines in our neuro- 
Physiology lab and unless you work with hardcore un- _ 
cooperative delinquents you ain’t going to use the 
— 
ae 
equipment as hard as we do. | can’t tell you about their 
— 2 
repair service because we have not had that kind of fee . 
; 
downtime on the machines. And that is not remarkable, 
its damn near miraculous. 
se 
1am a very ready buyer of biofeedback equipment, sho 
extensively at the conventions and these are the only three 
companies | am now prepared to recommend. | have o 
psychologist friend who specializes in curing psychoso 
complaints who has almost married his Autogenic Syst 
Truly good. Both companies have imaginative people, 
helpful people, and pretty efficient people. 
——- 
