esign & Color in Islamic Architecture 
prsian Architecture 
wo books on glorious architecture, of a period in 
uilding when there was deep respect for tradition, 
et a continual spirit of creativity. Towers, domes, 
osques that show a rare blending of structure and 
bellishment, monumental scale and delicate detail. 
ese buildings are whole and balanced, with an 
terior/exterior harmony seldom seen in the Gothic 
tathedrals (which are covered with large barn-type 
oofs). The Islamic book has exquisite color plates, 
s one of the very finest books on great architecture. 
he Persian book is more widely known, has an 
cellent history of Persian architecture, many good 
Jack and white photos. 
—LK 
[Islamic book suggested by 
Art Boericke] 
Design and 
Color in 
 Jslamue 
J Architecture 
Architecture 
1968; 312pp. 
from: 
457 Hahn Rd. 
or Whole Earth 
th regard to the vault or dome placed over a square plan, 
principal problem is how to manage the transition from 
square below to circle above. 
A dome cannot simply be 
Placed upon a square base, for either it will project over the 
Our sides of the square while it rests on the corners or it 
vill rest on the sides but fall short of the corners. In either 
ase a system of ugly bracketing or an inserted crude mass 
Of mortar will have to be added to make do. For centuries 
this problem baffled the very competent Roman engineers, 
who did not provide an attractive or even certain solution. 
if 
‘ind someone to take you on. Start as a laborer if need be; 
u ‘Il pick up the skills as you go. Keep working on and off 
til you know something about building. It’s a skill useful 
a lifetime. 
aw as much as possible. Books can be helpful, but 
nothing is better than a compatible teacher. There might 
be someone at a college (this could mean a trek from 
0! to school) who would be the right one. Or you 
hight find a job working for an architect: he’d teach you 
rawing, you’d help him_do drafting and get a salary that 
creased along with your proficiency. 
tudy, travel, building, drawing—— not in any 
particular 
rder—— could make you into a fine architect, although 
ithout the credentials. It could also make you a misfit 
today’s western world of building and design, but who 
knows how long it will all last. 
‘didn’t have all this together as we sat there on our second 
ip of coffee, but I’ve been thinking about it since. Because 
ith what architecture has become, it’s hard to learn the 
Kills on a human scale, and most colleges are of little 
Pp. 
l guess what I’ve done is outlined an alternative (that 
vOrd again) course in architecture. For those who can’t 
ford a good school or find one, it would be a vital way 
O learn the art and science of building. 
Design & Color in Islamic 
(Afghanistan 
Iran 
Turkey) 
Sonia P. Seherr-Thoss & 
Hans C. Sherr-Thoss 
$27.50 postpaid 
Random House, Inc. 
The tomb at Sangbast (A.D. 997-1028; A.H. 
387-419) is generally believed to have been 
built by the Governor of Tus, Arslan Jadhib. 
Eric Schroeder points out in his analysis of 
the construction of this building that “a brick 
ring twenty-five courses deep acts as abutment 
or weight on the haunch and perhaps this is 
the oldest Persian work embodying the 
knowledge that a dome is stronger if 
lighter at 
the crown.” A chevron pattern is found on 
the inside of the dome, and the walls are 
decorated with a design in incised plaster. 
Westminster MD 21157 
Persian Architecture 
Arthur Upham Pope 
1965; 288pp. 
$25.00 postpaid 
from: 
George Braziller, Inc. 
One Park Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10016 
or Whole Earth 
The earliest solution was reached by Persian engineers and 
masons who gradually realized that the question as posed 
was impossible. The answer required the development of 
a third section, a zone of transition, which involved 
building an arch across each corner thereby reducing the 
square to an octagon. If necessary, small arches could be 
built again to bridge the corners of the octagon thus 
producing a sixteen-sided figure which nearly approximated 
the ring of the dome. The slight corbelling necessary to 
smooth out the small discrepancies was not noticeable. In 
the earliest examples of this type of construction, the 
squinch or pendentive is rather crude and compressed, the 
arch creating a,small trumpet shaped hollow in each corner 
or angle. The history of this device, the squinch, is essential 
to the story of Islamic architecture; the variety of solutions 
is the story of slow development, inventiveness and 
engineering skill. 
e 
Master Buitders ot the Middle Ages 
The story of what happened in Europe after the Crusaders 
(early missionaries) discovered the dazzling architecture of 
the Middle East: the Gothic cathedrals, the masons who 
built them, the secrets of building kept in masonic lodges, 
a period in history when the church and monarchs could 
not control their builders, and the early seeds of architecture. 
—————— 
aa 
STER BUILDERS | 
MA: )E THE MIDDLE AGES 
Master Builders of the 
: 
Middle Ages 
David Jacobs 
1970; 153pp. 
$5.95 Postpaid 
from: 
Harper & Row 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
DOSS 
ATA 
ST 
TIST 
IS 
ARCHITECTURE 
509 
Medieval Structure: The Gothic Vault 
James Acland has put together the best book I’ve 
seen on buildings of Western Europe. With builder’s 
eye and scholar’s dedication (14 years gathering 
material) Acland shows the earliest primitive 
shelters in various climates, and the evolution of 
building forms that eventually led to the great 
Gothic vaults. 
It begins with a clearly illustrated history of 
building: Primitive Frame, which explains early 
domes, vaults, timber frames, more complicated 
structures. There is a fascinating account of how 
rectangular structures were developed in Neolithic 
(early agricultural) times from the circular earth 
lodge, retaining central posts. This type structure—— 
greatly enlarged—— now roofs the Gothic vaults. 
Good treatment in the rest of the book of all types of 
vaults: folded, ribbed, cellular; flying buttresses, fan 
vaults, curvilinear ribs. Outstanding photos and clear 
drawings that show construction details of the 
various shapes. 
—LK 
MEDIEVAL STRUCTURE: 
The Gothic Vault 
AND 
Medieval 
Structure: 
The Gothic 
Vault 
James H. Acland 
1972; 254pp. 
$25.00 
Postpaid 
from: 
Univ. of 
Toronto Press 
Univ. of 
Toronto 
Toronto, M5S 1A6 
Canada 
or Whole Earth 
JAMES H. ACI 
GSE 
USES
Robert and William 
Vertue, from 1503-19, 
built the elaborate vaults 
over the Henry VII 
chapel at Westminster 
Abbey as shells springing 
from points on the 
transverse arch rings. 
Essentially, the late Gothic designer took the lattice weave 
of the primitive hut, translated it into a delicate grid of 
curved masonry ribs, braced the ribs with a superposed 
shell, and then perched this delicately poised static 
contrivance up to one hundred feet above the floor on 
slender piers. It is little wonder that a rigidly braced 
transition between rib and pier became the special 
Preoccupation of the medieval engineer. 
As soon as he realized how important he was becoming, the 
mason quickly asserted and flaunted his independence. He 
asked for higher pay, and he got it. He dressed garishly, 
favoring showy silks and satins and huge capes of bright 
solid colors, lines with gaily patterned prints. He let his hair 
grow long and cultivated an unruly beard—— at a time when 
short-cropped hair and a clean-shaven face were signs of 
piety and self-sacrifice. 
In 1230 the Church decided that it had had enough. The 
bishops realized that they had allowed things to go so far 
because of their own competitiveness; thus divided, they 
had been powerless. Now they were determined to put 
aside their rivalries and unite. Only through a show of 
unity could they shake the masons of their worldly ways 
and force them to end their defiance of the Church. An 
order went out from every abbey and cathedral: The 
masons (for a start) were to shave off their beards and cut 
their hair short. The masons refused.... The order would 
not be obeyed. In fact, it must be rescinded. If it were not, 
the brotherhood of masons would systematically burn to 
the ground every last church, monastery, and cathedral in 
France. 
Considering the enormous power of the Church, this was 
an incredible ultimatum. Nevertheless, the bishops backed 
down. Still long-haired and bearded, the masons gave the 
word to resume work, and the cathedral crusade continued. 
