a 
ie 
eae 
(Continued from Pg. 441) 
So, in June 1971, we had the Demise Party celebrating 
the self-termination of The Whole Earth Catalog, and 
all in all it was a rout. 
1500 people showed up. The 
Exploratorium staff had their museum weirding around 
us at full steam. A band called The Golden Toad made 
every kind of music from bluegrass to bellydance. A 
non-stop non-score volleyball game competed for 
loudest activity with balloons full of inhalable laughing 
gas. And then at midnight Scott Beach announced 
from the stage that these here two hundred $100 
dollar bills, yes, $20,000, were now the property of 
the party-goers, just as soon as they could decide 
what to do with them. 
“Flush them down the toilet!” “No, don’t!” “Give 
it to the Indians!” “Bangladesh!” “Our commune 
needs a pump or we'll all get hepatitis!’ And so on. 
The debate lasted till 9 a.m. the next morning, 
when a dozen remaining hardcore turned the remaining 
$15,000 ($5,000 had been distributed to the crowd 
at one wild point) over to Fred Moore, dishwasher. 
Fred later gathered people for other group decidings 
over what to do with the money that worked out 
damn well. Most of the story, Rolling Stone’s account, 
is in The Seven Laws of Money. 
(Pg. 616). 
My reasons for perpetrating? Pure curiosity. Some 
of the surprises were: 
1) The money kept trying to 
come back—— innumerable suggestions involved 
“ 
Portola Institute as the recipient; 2) Handling of more 
than a pocketfull of power was new to most, up- 
setting, educational; 3) Ideas were mostly lousy—— 
unoriginal, guilt-ridden; 4) People who focussed on 
the process of deciding had a much better time than 
those who focussed on the money; 5) “Free money” 
is crazy. 
It was not a bad overture for the founding of POINT, 
the foundation that took over from Portola the 
dispensing of Whole Earth’s soon sizable income. 
Dick Raymond and | appointed a board consisting 
of ourselves, Huey Johnson from the Nature 
Conservancy, Mike Phillips from Glide Foundation, 
Jerry Mander (radical ad-man), and Bill English 
from Xerox. 
The seventh director was always a 
guest, called “Elijah,” different each time we met. 
The first thing we did was give up on my “Mountain 
Fantasy” notion of a bifurcated high hard 
community—— too pushily experimental. 
Instead 
we focussed on being a needle in the gaseous founda- 
tion world. We ruled that none of us could be with 
POINT more than three years. We dispensed (Jerry 
Mander’s brilliant stroke) with group decision about 
money—— each director had $55,000 a year to give 
out at his unchallenged discretion. We funded 
quickly and without fuss, usually preferring to do 
without proposals and such. We held board meetings 
on salmon boats at sea, in tipis, in Glide’s sex room, 
at the Black Panther school in Oakland. And our 
grants were maybe no worse than other people’s—— 
they’re listed in entirety in the Summer ‘74 Co- 
Evolution Quarterly if you‘re interested. 
Huey Johnson and Jerry Mander, who fought 
constantly, were the best funders. Dick Raymond and 
/ were terrible. Now there’s mostly a new set of 
directors, whose qualities we shall see. 
The main 
lesson | learned was: 
it’s not enough to give money 
to someone who’s very good. They must also be in 
the grip of an overwhelming idea which is very 
good; otherwise a hideous paralysis will take them 
over and, in addition, freeze your friendship. 
My own travels after the Demise were mostly 
unpublic, narrow, hard. Wife Lois and / trailered 
around and bought a piece of land in Canada. By 
that winter back in the Bay Area our marriage was 
coming unstuck—— mostly my doing | reckon. 
Colleges were hiring me for occasional talks at $500 
_a throw (time is shorter and price higher nowadays). 
In the spring of ‘72 | was up to my neck in a POINT- 
funded misbegotten effort to liven up the UN 
Conference on The Human Environment in Stock- 
holm by sending over sundry poets, Indians, radical 
scientists, and the Hog Farm travelling commune. 
The 
Swedish lefties figured the CIA sent us. 
The only 
mitigation to the debacle, in my view, was Joan 
Stewart 
McIntyre’s success in promoting the UN approval 
of a 10-year moratorium on all whaling. 
That same Spring the National Book Award in 
“Contemporary Affairs’ was given to the Whole 
Earth Catalog over the dead body of judge Gary Wills, 
who resigned in protest. 
| told the audience at 
Linco!n Center (speaking slowly, as neighboring 
recipient Donald Barthelme had kindly advised me), 
““f the award encourages still more self-initiated, 
amateur, use-based, non-New York publishing, good 
deal,” and then wasted the $1000 check on 
Stockholm. Random House sweetly faked up a 
framable award for my wall. 
New York. . 
. Its other response was two invitations 
to make a Broadway musical comedy called “The 
Last Whole Earth Catalog’’—— one from Edward 
Padula (“Bye Bye Birdie”), one from Stuart Ostrow 
(1776”)—— mixed emotions about the projects on 
all hands. Oh yeah; there was a highly enjoyable 
half hour on the Dick Cavett Show (he held his 
boffer aloft, remarked, “You can’t get hurt with 
these, you say. What if you swallow it?” swatted 
me a sneaky blow, ran and gave the weapon to broad- 
sword-trained Black actor Woody Strode, who 
declaimed something about “unhand-that-princess”” 
while beating me up). 
Other Whole Earth staffers were busier than /. Hal 
Hershey was becoming a prize-winning book designer 
made it into a fine damn magazine (now defunc , 
worthy back issues available from Place, Walnut 
Grove, CA 95690.) Steamboat went back to Nebraské 
Laura Besserman became the Southern California 
gradually rotated its ranks until now only Annie ; 
Hines is left from the old volleyball-in- -back days 
/ returned in bad shape from Stockholm, hied 
immediately to Canada with Lois, and built a small 
house—— far the most rewarding effort I‘d been — 
involved in since starting the Catalog. And unbuil 
a marriage. On return to California we both made 
our way through the divorce trauma. 
Lois remarried 
well to Keith Britton, who is English andapro- 
fessional dynamiter. 
| resumed an active bachelorhood 
in San Francisco. Paul Krassner sublet one of my 
closets for his hot nights in town, and we became — 
referred to as “the hip Odd Couple’ —— he wrote it 
up for Place. 
And within the meanwhile, | was dealing with a 
sporadic case of the Greater Whim-whams—— a state | 
of mind I’ve never seen better described than Pye 
Edward Conze. 
The discoveries which philosophers and psychol 
have made in recent years about the central imp 
of anxiety at the very core of our being, have quite a 
Buddhist ring about them. According to the views 
elaborated by Scheler, Freud, Heidegger and Jaspers, — 
“there is in the core of our being a basic anxiety,a 
_ 
little empty hole from which all other forms of 
anxiety and unease draw their strength. 
In its pul 
form, this anxiety is experienced only by peo 
with an introspective and philosophical turn 
and even then only rarely. 
If one has never felt 
oneself, no amount of explanation will convince 
one has felt it, one will never forget, however m 
one may try. It may come upon you when you 
been asleep, withdrawn from the world; you wa 
in the middle of the night and feel a kind of a 
against the background of a kind of Bera a 
around you, and with a gnawing sense of your poy 
lessness, your utter helplessness in the face of this 
_ 
astonishing fact that you are there at all. Usually, 
we avoid this experience as much as we possibly 
can, because it is so shattering and painful. Usually, 
— 
lam very careful not to have myself by myself, but 
The | plus all sorts of other experiences. People who — 
are busy all the time, who must always think of some- 
thing, who must always be doing something, are — 
incessantly running away from this experience of th 
basic or original anxiety. What we usually do is 
lean and to rely on something else than this emp 
centre of ourselves. The Buddhist contention is that | i 
we will never be at ease before we have overcome this 
basic anxiety, and that we can do that only by revi 
on nothing at all. 
aa 
—Buddhism (Pg. 745) 
Back during the Catalog when the Whim- nde 
showed up, Jack Downing administered neighbo 
first-aid. Later on Pierre Mornell shrank m Y heac 
Mostly, of course, | was unfocussed. Most 
of m; 
contemporaries—— late twenties, early thirties 
were either blurred out or settling down to / 
tional Story to sustain us from without. A hea 
uncertainty was afoot. | messed around with 
\ 
—— journalism for Rolling Stone and an interview 
for Harper’s (both now in Two Cybernetic 
Frontiers——Pg. 455). /t was talking with 
Greg 
