1 ae 
ae 
a 
¥ 
BY ORVILLE SCHELL 
INTRODUCTION 
—_———————————— 
China has been a problem for the United States. More often. 
_than not our perceptions of that country have been distorted 
beyond all measure by our own fears and weaknesses. For 
the last thirty years we Americans have viewed China as 
_ “Red China”, peopled by demonic communist “blue ants”, 
led by a sinister leadership whose sole motivation was world 
conquest. 
Our own hang ups about “communism” and the red menace 
were played upon by ambitous politicians like Richard 
Nixon, Senator Joseph McCarthy and William Knowland 
___ whose red baiting created a climate of fear and paranoia 
which almost completely eclipsed our ability to see China in 
her own right; to see and understand one of the great social 
and political experiments of all time. 
Some of that fear has ebbed. We begin to be able to see 
‘China less as a threat and enemy, and more as a tremendously 
hopeful society which has chosen to go about the process of 
living in a way almost completely different from our own. 
For many, the Chinese have become an example of an 
alternative way of dealing with problems of modern life. The 
old questions of foreign policy, China as an “‘aggressive’”’ 
nation ready to gobble up Asia, and China as a retarded 
repressive communist dragon have receded from view. China 
as a nation with a different way of handling health care, the 
- environment, women, agriculture, housing, industry, 
transportation, energy, etc., is beginning to come to the 
fore. And emerging from behind the mountain of irrelevant 
trivia that cold war stricken authors wrote about China, is a 
slowly growing collection of excellent and informative books 
and material available to everybody. One does not need to be 
an “expert” to understand China. 
BACKGROUND BOOKS 
China is an old country. Its historical legacy to the present is 
a deep one. The years between 1921, when the first 
communist party was set up in China, and 1949, when Mao 
Tse-tung marched triumphantly into Peking at the head of - 
the People’s Liberation Army were long and tumultuous. It 
_ was during these years that the communist tried, failed, 
_ succeeded, learned and fashioned the politics and life style 
which has made China what it is today. The present is 
difficult to understand without some sense of that past and 
the seemingly insurmountable problems which the Chinese 
have overcome. 
Note: all books preceded by asterisks can be ordered 
- directly. For others, check nearest library, big bookstores, 
or write directly to the publisher. 
* The China Reader (by Franz Schurmann and Orville 
Schell, Vintage, paper back. (Vol. 1, 287 pp., $2.40) 
(Vol. 11, 369pp., $2.40,) (Vol. 111, 647pp., $2.95) provides 
a good sweep of how it all began. The first volume covers 
Imperial China and deals with the old Confucian system 
under dynastic rule. The second volume picks up in 1911 
after the fall of the Manchu Emperor Dowager and follows 
Chaing Kai-shek’s disasterous reign of corruption and gloom, 
_and the growth of Mao’s guerrilla army in the hills. The 
third volume covers Communist China from 1949 through 
1966. (There is a fourth volume just out on the Cultural 
Revolution by Nancy and David Milton, and Franz 
Schurmann). These volumes are composed of translations, 
magazine articles, poems, essays, book chapters, reports and 
explanatory introductions. They are quite readable and 
enable the reader to dive in at almost any point and read for 
a while. They cover a little bit of everything and should give 
the novice as well as the pro something to think about. 
They all look alike, though differing in height; some being 
very tall. My present idea of them is ugliness and stiff angular 
demeanor, perhaps 
due to ungainly garments... Their cheeks 
are hollow and white, though occasionally purple. Their 
noses are like sharp beaks which we consider unfavorable. 
Some of them have thick tu ifts of hair, red. and yellow, on. 
their faces making them look like monkeys. Their arms and 
ears do not reach the floor as they are depicted by us. Though 
sleepy looking, I think they have intelligence... 
—(One of the first Chinese 
accounts of white men by 
scholar, Hwuy-ung) 
Edgar Snow first went to China in the 1930’s. Since then he 
has written many books. Almost every single one deserves a 
rave. Not only are they warm, human and interesting, but 
Snow was one of those men who never sold out. His love for 
the Chinese and his sense that they were up to something 
more positive than world domination made his life difficult 
in the fifties and early sixties. These were the years when 
writers, politicians and artists were smeared relentlessly for 
anything positive that they might say about China. Rather 
than capitulate to the witch hunt, Snow left the country. 
They were lean years, but he kept writing. 
* Red Star Over China, (Grove Press, paper, 1961, 543pp., 
$2.95) is the story of Snow’s trips behind Communist lines 
in 1936. He was the first American journalist to interview 
Mao and visit the communist capital at Yenan. His account 
of how the communists fought, lived, and survived is 
equalled by none. It’s a classic. Exciting. Hard to put down. 
* Journey to the Beginning, (Vintage, paper, 1972, 423pp., 
$2.45) sports a cover showing a picture of young Snow 
standing with Mao Tse-tung in Yenan almost 40 years ago. 
Since then Snow met with Mao many times in what was 
surely one of the most curious and special relations in 
Sino-American history. Snow also met with Chou En-lai, 
Nehru, Ghandi, Roosevelt and a host of other people during 
his long career. But most interesting are his seemingly 
endless roamings around China and his contact with Chinese 
and foreigners from every walk of life. The book tells a 
tremendous amount about China and is probably one of 
the most interesting biographies I’ve ever read. 
* The Other Side of The River; Red China Today and The 
Long Revolution are works written after later visits to China 
after 1960. All interesting and well written, although 
somewhat less current. 
All men must die, but death can vary in its significance. The 
ancient Chinese writer Szuma Chien said, “‘Though death 
befalls all men alike, it may be heavier than Mt. Tai, or lighter 
than a feather! To die for the people is heavier than Mt. Tai, 
but to work for the fascists and die for the exploiters and 
oppressors is lighter than a feather.”’ 
—(Mao Tse-tung, 1944) 
* If you're in a hurry and want to get a short whirl through 
the last hundred years of China, (from the Opium Wars, 
when westerners first attempted to smash their way into 
China), to the communist years, try, Modern China: The 
Story of a Revolution, by Orville Schell and Joe Esherick, 
(Vintage Sundial, paper, 1972, 143pp., $1.50). It should 
give you some sense of what the word “‘revolution’”’ means in 
China; how Mao built his movement out of the weakest rather 
than the most powerful, out of the poorest rather than the 
richest, out of the least educated rather than the best 
educated. In short, it tells the story of the transformation of 
the Chinese peasant and Chinese society. 
* White men have been arrogantly writing books about the 
Chinese for a long time. Their views have usually been 
passed around as the last word. One is never quite sure if 
one is learning about the chaos inside of some professor's 
head, or China, when one ventures into many of these tomes. 
How have the Chinese seen themselves for the last 100 
years? A Chinese View of China, edited by John Gittings, 
(Pantheon, paper, 216pp., $1.95) is.a tidy and interesting 
excursion through Chinese history from Chinese translations. 
Beautiful graphics. 
You, O King, live beyond the confines of the many 
seas. 
Never the less, impelled by your humble desire to partake 
of the benefits of our civilization, you have dispatched a 
mission... Your envoy has crossed the seas and paid his 
respects at my Court on the anniversary of my birthday. Ti
show your devotion, you have also sent offerings of your 
country’s produce... 
Swaying the wide world, I have but one aim in view, 
namely to maintain a perfect governance and to fulfill the 
duties of the State; strange and costly objects do not 
‘interest me. If I have commanded that the tribute offering 
sent by you, O King, are to be accepted, this was solely in 
consideration for the spirit which prompted you to dispate 
them from afar. Our dynasty’s majestic virtue has penetrati 
into every country under heaven, and kings of all nations 
have offered their costly tribute by land and by sea. As yo 
Ambassador can see by himself, we possess all things. I set 
no value on objects strange or ingenious, and have no use {
your country’s manufactures. This then is my answer to 
your request. 
—(The Ch’ien Lung Emperor 
response to King George ||
after British Ambassador, 
The Earl of Macartney’s 
request that an English 
Ambassador be allowed to 
live in Peking) 
*Not to be forgotten, are the writings of Chairman Mao 
himself. At first, they may seem overly didactic, cold and 
doctrinaire. But Mao’s intention was not to amuse people 
with frivolity. His writing has been a life long attempt to 
provide a new political and intellectual framework through 
which the Chinese can view themselves and the world. Som 
call it a methodology; a way of making sense out of things 
and analyzing problems. Mao has given China common 
language and common perspective. In China it is called Mao 
Tse-tung Ssu-hsiang, or, Mao Tse-tung thought. Mao sees th 
ability to think and analyze as the key to human efficacy. 
His Thought has, in effect, given the peasant and common 
man a way of overcoming problems. Powerful medicine. 
Particularly if you believe, as does Mao, that thought must 
lead to action. As he has so candidly put it, ‘Pure thought 
without practice (action), is no better than horse shit.” 
* The “little red book", Quotations From Chairman Mao, 
(Foreign Languages Press, 321 pp., 1966) comes in scores 0 
languages and costs $.60. It’s divided very practically into 
chapters (Discipline, Serving the People, Women, People’s 
War, etc.) Once you get into it and begin to understand 
what Mao is about, the “little red book’”’ becomes a very 
sage compendium. 
On what basis should our policy rest? It should rest on our 
own strength, and that means regeneration through one’s 
own efforts...We stand for self-reliance. 
—(Mao Tse-tung, 1945) 
* For those who would like to- dive in deeper, try, The 
Selected Works of Mao Tse-tung, (Foreign Languages Press, 
4 vols: Vol. | 1926-37, 347 pp., Vol. Il 1937-41, 468 pp., 
Vol. Ill 1941-45, 340 pp., Vol. 1V 1945-49, 45 pp.) This 
is the deluxe tour of the inside of Mao’s head. Each of the 
four volumes is paper back, and costs $2.75. 
*Six Essays on Military Affaires, (Foreign Languages Press, 
393 pp., 1963, red plastic, $1.25) is available for all those 
who are into the field. It contains his most important 
articles of the subject by this founder of guerrilla warfare. 
His individual articles are also available for $.25—$.60 each 
in small pamphlet form. 
We should support whatever the enemy opposes and oppo 
whatever the enemy supports. 
—(Mao Tse-tung, 1939) 
* For those who would like to read a biography of Mao, 
you might try, The Morning Deluge, by Han Suyin (Little 
Brown, 571 pp., 1972, hard back, $12.95). 
