An Atlas of Fantasy 
This is one of those bulls-eye ideas that makes you wonder 
why no one thought of it before—— a collection of the 
‘maps of magical lands from literary fantasy. Here is the 
geography of the imagination: Oz and Ouroboros, 
Schlaraffenlande and Poictesme, Toad Hall and Lilliput 
and Narnia, Mongo and Middle-earth, Islandia and Pellucidar 
and Prydain. 
These names, these drawings, have a power 
of evocation that is deepiy mysterious—— we have seen 
these cities, climbed these ranges, sailed these seas. 
Thanks 
to J. B. Post for assembling the maps & charts that made 
these worlds so real—— the cartography of magic. 
LEARNING 
An Atlas of Fantasy 
from: 
J. B. Post 
The Mirage Press, Ltd. 
- 1973; 283pp. 
P.O. Box 7687 
Baltimore, MD 21207 
$1 2.00 postpaid 
or Whole Earth 
Vast miniatures 
My contribution is to mention something that you overlooked 
in the *‘educational-games-war-games”’ section. Which is the 
vast miniature figure manufacturing people who make figures 
from 5-15-25-54 MM in size for wargaming and collecting, 
ancients to modern figures, Science Fiction & Fantasy 
Figures for the massive mind boggling Lord of the Rings 
wargame. 
The figures are always a fine cast sculpture and a piece of 
artwork in the least, and when painted are fantastic—— I, 
myself have an 8,000 figure Napoleonic wargame army 
alone—— and paint figures for commission on the side. 
The wargaming process with miniature figures is more 
satisfying than the board games and much more personal—— 
| find that the miniature wargamer is much more pacific 
caracture than his board comrade who uses impersonal 
counters. 
Mindbogling catalogs can be had from: 
The most extensive and varied everything: 
“The Soldier Shop, Inc. 
1013 Madison Ave. 
New York, NY 10021 
Catalog $2.00 
Old subscription rate 4-quarterly catalogs $4/1 yr extensive 
selection: 
Miniature Figurines USA, Inc 
4311 Lemmon Ave 
Dallas, Texas 75219 
catalog $1.25 
lection: 
Good selection 
Bese Regards: 
Miniature Figurines Ltd. 
Michael Gilbert 
Box P 
Master of Space & Time 
Pine Plain, NY 12567 
22 Koster Blvd. 5a 
catalog $1.25 
Edison, NJ 08817 
a troll—— 
(L. of the Rings) Inclosed, 
in this scale Hobbits are 
that tall 
-_ 
The Book of Weird 
; 
A delightful compendium of illustrations and information 
about things medieval, mystical and/or magical—— a 
giossary of elves and earls, knaves and gnomes, sorceresses 
and warlocks, trolls, vampires, werewolves, dragons, and 
other creatures of great interest. 
Marvelous drawings—— 
a “most desirable lexicon of the fantastical,” indeed. 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
Dolphin Herald 
Doubleday &Co., Inc. 
501 Franklin Ave. 
Garden City, L.I., NY 
11530 
or Whole Earth 
The Book of Weird 
Barbara Ninde Byfield 
1967; 160pp. 
TIME TRIPPING 
by Diana L. Parson 
TIME TRAVEL—— The Current Middle Ages and other 
legal trips. . 
. 
Tripping implies escape to another reality. Besides drugs or 
travel there is another way to get away from it all. Here are 
some organizations that aid and abet travel in other worlds—— 
Past, future, or imaginary. 
THE PAST 
The Society for Creative Anachronism. Inc., home of the 
Current Middle Ages. 
Have you always wanted to be a knight in shining armor, or 
his lady? Would you like to learn calligraphy, embroidery, 
falconry, heraldry, heroic poetry, mead brewing, pavannes 
and galliards and a reason to do them? These are only a few 
of the things taking place in the Society for Creative 
Anachronism, which has branches all over the country. By 
means of events such as tournaments and revels which attempt 
to recreate a medieval environment, by classes, workshops, 
and demonstrations, Society members pursue the goal of 
theoretical and practical research into the culture of the 
Middle Ages. 
The Society’s national offices are located in Berkeley, 
California. Branches are organized along medieval lines. 
There are presently four kingdoms, each ruled by a king 
chosen periodically by combat with wooden replicas of 
medieval arms, as well as dependent principalities, baronies, 
cantons, and shires. 
Membership in the Society entitles one to receive regular 
publications, including the kingdom newsletters, which 
contain announcements of the nature and location of all 
events in the region, and also the magazine Tournaments 
Illuminated, which features How-to and research articles, 
reviews, etc. Membership is currently $4.00 a year. Write: 
The Society for Creative Anachronism, Inc., Box 1162, 
Berkeley, CA 94701. 
IMAGINARY WORLDS 
The Mythopoeic Society 
Tolkien lives! In the wake of the incredible popularity of 
The Lord of the Rings, organizations for lovers of fantasy 
have sprung up like mushrooms. 
The most flourishing of these is the Mythopoeic Society, 
which is devoted to the study, discussion, and enjoyment 
of myth, fantasy, and imaginative literature, especially 
the works of J.R.R. Tolkien, C.S. Lewis, and Charles 
Williams. These authors furnish an excellent introduction 
to the entire realm of imaginative literature, but since 
the Society has a general interest in fantasy and myth, 
it is concerned with many other writers as well, and in 
a greater understanding and integration of all aspects of 
human experience, as well as greater individual and group 
creativity. 
The Mythopoeic Society presently includes over twenty- 
five branches in various parts of the country. Members may 
attend monthly meetings to discuss fantasy works or themes, 
hold seasonal picnics and revels, read and/or contribute to 
Society publications, and attend the convention (Mythcon, 
held in the Los Angeles area each August). 
Those interested in the Mythopoeic Society may receive a 
sample copy of the newsletter, Mythprint. Annual dues are 
$6.00, and include the newsletter. The Society also 
publishes a magazine, Mythlore, at irregular intervals. 
Write: The Mythopoeic Society, Box 4671, Whittier, CA 
90607. 
_ found ina chimney corner and may be helpful to you in a 
Science fiction fan clubs may be found in most major U.S. — 
_ “fanzine” 
Crones and Hags 
Crone: An old woman, ariniinee bene with gnarled 
Dea 
hands, few teeth, and a high- pitched cackle. She is generally 
way you least expect. 
Hag: Beware. A Hag, who if she resembles a Crone etree 
will still have kept a few more teeth, is of an unpleasant and 
evil intent.. She is sometimes fond of the company of one 
or two other Hags. 
INTERNATIONAL SCI-FI/_ 
FANTASY BOOKSTORE LIST 
—_ 
by Laura Besserman 
Space Age Books Pty, Ltd. 
Dark They Were & Golden Eye 
317 Swanston St. Melbourne 
10 Berwick Street 
Victoria 3000 Australia 
London WIV 3 RG England 
(03) 663-1777 
(01) 734-4260 
A Change of Hobbit 
1371 Westwood Blvd. 
Los Angeles, CA 90024 — 
(213) 473-2873 
zi 
Futuropolis 
130, Rue du Theatre 
Paris XV Basoee 
134-41-9 
Skull Bookshop 
Rue du Germoir 6 
B 1050 Brussels Belgium 
472-585 
Bakka 
286 Queen Steet West 
Toronto 28 Ontario Canada 
(416) 595-1161 
Ferret Fantasy, Ltd. 
27 Beechcroft Rd. 
Upper Tooting 
London SW 17 England 
(01) 767-0029 
La Mandragore 
30 Rue des Grands Augustins 
eee 6 Paris, France 
Science Fiction Shop 
Re 
56 Eighth Ave. 
New York, NY 10014 
(212) 741-0270 
The Fantasy Association 
This group exists to promote the study of fantasy, imaginative 
literature, medieval literature, and related areas. The 
te 
Association operates entirely through its publications, the 
newsletter, Fantasiae features articles by well known fantasy 
writers, reviews, lists of newly published works of interest, — 
and scholarly articles on a variety of themes and works. It 
is also beautifully illustrated. One free sample copy 
available on request. 12 issues, $4.00. Write: The Fantasy 
Association, P.O. Box 24560, Los Angeles, CA 90024. 
THE FUTURE 
Fandom 
m, 
F.1:A.W.O.L....F.1.J.A.G.H...(Fandom is a way of life...Fando 
is just a goddam hobby) 
Se 
It’s not an organization, having neither officers nor members. 
Perhaps “‘phenomenon” is a better way of describing it. But 
whatever it is, since science fiction aficionados first began 
forming groups in the 1930's, fandom has existed, and a 
complex network of clubs, amateur magazines (called 
“"fanzines’’), and conventions are covered by that heading — 
today. 
What its participants have in common is an interest in 
environments other than our own. In particular, they delight 
in extrapolating, imaginating, and discussing, reading and 
writing about fantasy and science fiction, and in the discovery 
that they are not alone. 
cities and many foreign countries, and publishers of amateur 
magazines devoted to articles on various aspects of science, 
science fiction, and almost anything else from Gilbert and 
Sullivan to organic gardening may be found anywhere. All 
of these people come together at the conventions which are - 
held regularly and irregularly here and sometimes abroad. 
The major convention is the Worldcon, held on the Labor 
Day weekend at a location which rotates each year. Each 
© 
region of the country also has its annual “con.” such as the 
Westercon (West Coast, 4th of July weekend), Boskone . 
(Boston in March), Disclave (Washington D.C., Memorial Day | 
Weekend), Lunacon (New York, Easter), Midwestcon (June), 
and Philcon (Philadelphia, November). Conventions 
devoted to Star Trek and other special interests are also 
— 
held from time to time. 
Science Fiction clubs usually meet weekly, and feature 
speakers—— pro writers, scientific experts, etc., and 
— 
ae. 
| 
discussions. Conventions feature the same, with the addition 
of panels, a banquet, costume ball, SF and fantasy art 
show, displays, parties, etc. 
The closest thing to a coordinating organization for fandom 
that exists is the N3F (National Fantasy Fan Federation), 
which is a sort of volunteer clearinghouse and source of 
information on conventions, clubs, rare books, tapes and 
speakers etc. 
For information, write: 
The National Fantasy Fan Federati 
c/o Janie Lamb, Rt. 1, Box 3664, Heiskell, TN 37754. 
Another way of getting into fandom is to subscribe to one id 
of the fanzines. Some of the more notable are described 
below: 
Yandro 
Published irregularly by Robert and Juanita Coulson, Rt. 
3, 
Hartford City, Indiana 47348, this is a good example of a 
-- a publication which in addition to articles 
on science, science fiction and fandom, includes personal 
~ 
ramblings, book reviews, etc. The tone is low-key and 
— 
{ 
friendly, and the ‘zine provides a good introduction to the ~ 
best of the fannish culture. (1 issue, 50 cents, 4- $1 80, 
xz 
12- $5.00) 
Besos 
