NOMA 
IDIICS 
652 
The Mariners Catalog 
An interesting and fun catalog of useful items and publications 
for those who go down at sea. . . er to the sea. Sections 
include Commercial Fishing, Boat Types, Boat Design, Wood, 
Fastners, Tools, Winches and Hoists, Boatbuilding, Models 
and Modeling, Marine Engines, Ship Fittings, Sails, 
Navigation, Weather, Clo thing and Comfort, At Sea, and 
Stoves and Heaters. Each section contains an article or two 
discussing some aspect of the subject of the section. A good 
Start on a book that should become a useful tool for boating 
enthusiasts, with these two exceptions: it’s not of the same 
high quality as the usual International Marine publication 
and, though the editor readily admits that a majority of the 
books listed are sold by and can be ordered through 
International Marine, he also States, “.. .all books in print 
are available through your favorite book store or favorite 
publisher.” But yet no address is given for the publisher, 
whereas there are addresses for equipment catalogs, 
Magazines and periodicals and other items not handled by 
International Marine. Hmmm—— funny thing? 
BOATING 
—AP 
The Mariners Catalog 
Ed. David Getchell 
1973; 192pp. 
$4.95 postpaid 
from: 
The Mariner's Catalog 
Camden, ME 04843 
Maine Boat Builders 
and Repairers Association 
Frederic L. Felton 
Executive Secretary 
Cumberland Foreside, 
Portland, Me. 04110 
Good Maine Yards 
Are you looking for a small, skilled yard to build you a fine 
wood yacht, a fishing craft, an aluminum racer, a fiberglass 
Cruiser or sailboat or some other custom-designed boat? Such 
yards still exist, and in considerable number, along the coast 
of Maine, and the steady parade of new boats heading south 
each year testifies to the fact that not all the boats come 
from the same mold. Instant information about some of these 
yards—— their facilities, capacities, personnel, location, etc.—— 
is available from the Maine Boat Builders And Repairers 
Association. Their brochure lists nearly 50 yards and related 
facilities. 
—DRG 
e 
“Small Craft Conversion’’ by John Lewis. 
Adiard Coles, London, England, 
1972, 288 pages, illustrated, glossary, 
index, $15. 
John Lewis was bitten with the conversion bug and this book 
is the result of his experiences and research. There’s plenty 
of general information on the hows and whys, but the 
strength of the book is the specific examples, like lifeboats, 
whaleboats, punts and workboats. For instance, there are 31 
Pages on transforming a 26’ lifeboat to a ketch-rigged cruiser. 
Lewis has specifics on installing engines, sail rigs, centerboards, 
leeboards, cabins, accommodations, wheelhouses and more. 
He even discusses how to give a straight-stem lifeboat a raked 
stem by adding a false bow. 
e 
Blacksmithing tools are offered by the following firms in 
the U.S.: 
The Bicknell Mfg. Co. 
Rockland, Me. 04841 
or 
Elberton, GA 30635 
The Buffalo Forge Company 
P.O. Box 985 
Buffalo, NY 14240 
e 
Shipmate Stove Div. 
Richman Ring Co. 
Souderton, Pa. 
Other quality marine stove manufacturers must wince when 
they hear the name Shipmate. It is a standard in the field 
and everyone in this part of Maine who doesn’t have one, wants 
one. It’s one of those cases where a trade name has become the 
generic name for the product. Even though you’re drinking 
“UN——,” you're still on a “’Coke*-date.”” Shipmates are made 
for all purposes, in all sizes and finishes for all fuels. They 
are excellent. 
The Wonderful World of Houseboating 
Supplies the would-be houseboater with the information and 
instruction he'll need to rent a houseboat, or purchase one 
for a floating home. Newcomb describes the many types 
available and how to furnish, accessorize and navigate them. 
He explains how to rent a houseboat and includes a list of 
rental agencies, how to plan a trip and what to bring along, 
and so forth. A useful feature of this heavily illustrated book 
is a special map section with seven regional maps that show 
at a glance where houseboating may be done in the U.S., and 
21 detailed maps zero in on some of the “hot spots’ around 
the country. All in all a very good source of information for 
houseboating types. 
—AP 
The Wonderful World 
of Houseboating 
Duane Newcomb 
1974; 204pp. 
$9.95 Postpaid 
from: 
Prentice-Hall, Inc. 
Box 500 
Englewood Cliffs, NJ 
07632 
or Whole Earth 
In buying a houseboat, as in renting one, your primary 
consideration should be how you intend to use it. \f you 
want a getaway family boat for leisurely weekend cruising, 
stick to the pontoon models. Several manufacturers produce 
this kind of craft, with Prices ranging from $4500 to 
$13,000, and lengths from 18 to 50 feet. All models are 
- Powered by outboard motors and can do from 6 to 12 miles 
per hour. Interiors are pleasantly comfortable. 
Should you prefer something that can handle long cruises 
with ease, really moves and looks more like a conventional 
boat, consider the cruiser hulls. Conventional hull types come 
in steel, aluminum and fiberglass. They are powered by 
single- or twin-engine inboards and reach speeds of over 30 
mph. Prices range from $6995 to over $50,000, and sizes 
from 30 to 59 feet. Numerous livability features and a wide 
variety of interior designs are available, with a trend toward 
sleeker exteriors. 
Goldberg's Marine Dist. Inc. 
One of the best sources of discount marine equipment and 
hardware on the East Coast. Catalog (203 pages) runs $1.50 
but worth it for the savings you can realize on name brand 
gear. 
Goldberg’s Marine 
Dist. Inc. 
203pp. 
Catalog 
$1 .50 Postpaid. 
from: 
Goldberg’s Marine 
Dist. Inc. 
202 Market St. 
Philadelphia, PA 19106 
A.—SAMSON YACHT BRAID 
Braided polyester cover over braided polypropylene core with patented Sam- 
son parallel fiber 2-in-1 construction, 
* For Sheets © Halyards @ Running Rigging ® Spliceable © Extremely flexible, 
p47. 
so it will run easily through blocks without kinking. 
1,700 Ibs. 
3 Ibs. 
2,600 Ibs. 
5 Ibs, 
3,500 Ibs. 
6 Ibs. 
5,100 Ibs. 
7 Ibs. 
6,800 Ibs. 
9 Ibs. 
11,000 Ibs. 
13 Ibs. 
15,000 Ibs. 
19 Ibs. 
The Telltale Compass 
Jorgensen’s four-page newsletter tells all with no holds 
barred—— the inside poop on the boating industry. Who's 
screwing up, who’s doing a good job. Definitely worth- 
while information if you can afford the $20 tab. 
—AP 
[Suggested by Stanley Shans] 
from: 
The Telltale Compass 
18418 South Old River Dr. 
Lake Oswego, OR 97034 
The Telltale Compass 
Victor Jorgensen, Ed. 
$20.00 /yr. 
Wild Rivers of North America 
Introduction to Water Trails in America 
Two basic guidebooks for those who want to try anything 
from innertubes to kayaks to get away from the overly used 
foot trails. 
Jenkinson’s book is more for the experienced than the NOvice 
covering the big rivers—— Rogue, Salmon, Colorado, Suwanng, 
Yukon, and Rio Grande—— in detail, and giving shorter 
listings for over 100 more wild rivers from Central America 
to the Far North. Covers history, descriptions, difficulty, 
recommended crafts, access points, and camping and fishing 
information. 
: 
ot vers e 
Wild Rivers of 
aeiae 
North America 
: 
Amend 
‘ 
Michael Jenkinson 
> 
Ree 
1973; 413pp. 
N 
$12.95 Postpaid 
z 
! 
from: 
E.P. Dutton & Co., Inc, 
201 Park Ave. South 
New York, NY 10003 
or Whole Earth 
C2 LLL 
Advanced First Aid Afloat 
One must have an incentive. Dry as dust text gives you none, 
Eastman does. He gives you cases at the beginning of each 
series of techniques. Cases related with horrible picture words 
that make you feel the drastic emergency of the situation, 
the terrible pain and discomfort of the injured—— “What 
can I do, what can | do?” Now, youre tuned up to learn. 
And Eastman makes it easy through his clear cut systematic 
procedure. At the end of the line the patient is resting 
comfortably well on his way to recovery and your vicarious 
trauma has been soothed—— and suprisingly enough, with 
very little effort you have remembered what to do in such 
a case and why. Great book! 
—AP 
Advanced First Aid 
Afloat 
Peter F. Eastman, M.D. 
1972; 115pp. 
$3.75 postpaid 
from: 
Cornell Maritime Press 
Box 109 
Cambridge, MD 21613 
or Whole Earth 
Your cruising ketch is four days out of Los Angeles Harbor 
toward Diamond Head. At 0700 hours a sleepy helmsman 
invites an unintentional jibe. The boom flies across and thump: 
the man on watch. He slumps to the deck between the cabin 
trunk and the portside chain plates, unconscious and bleeding 
furiously from a cut head. 
What do you do next, Skipper?. 
. 
. 
Any major accident anywhere, ashore or afloat, daytime or 
nighttime, demands attention to three basic priorities. 
These are: 
1. Restore breathing. Time is important since man suffers 
severe brain damage after five minutes of apnea (non- 
breathing). 
2. Get the victim out of further danger. 
3. Stop serious bleeding. 
Simple, isn’t it, when considered in this way? Get to your 
injured crewman quickly. One glance assures you he is in no 
further danger where he is. Do not move him. It is obvious 
he is bleeding; ignore that for the moment. Man can often 
bleed quite a while without much danger. 
Note that his chest is not moving in and out; his lips, fingertip’ 
and cheeks are blue-gray. He isn’t breathing. 
Start mouth-to-mouth resuscitation at once . 
Detail a sturdy fellow to stop the bleeding head. Tell him 
what to do between breaths as you keep up the mouth-to- 
mouth resuscitation. 
Forget about bleeding points, pressure points and such 
detailed anatomy. Tell him to press down hard on whatever 
is bleeding. If one finger will serve—— fine; if the wound is 
larger, he may need a whole hand. If it is bigger than that, 
have him stuff a guaze bandage, towel (preferably clean), of 
whatever is handy, into the wound and apply the pressure 
over this. 
