Treasury of Traditional Wisdom 
The collected works 456 
ie 
|The big intersubjectivity 
456 
and the Corpse 
; 
Best myth collection 
427 
cism 
The Christian mystics 
431 
Teh King Succinct holy book 
12 
aneda Best native American 
Shamanism 
430,744 
d, Beginners Mind 
Best intro to practice 
429 
dangerous to look Christianity in the eye, 
gerous not to. This book looks. And annihilates 
—SB 
The Gospel of Christian 
Atheism 
Thomas J.J. Altizer 
1954; 157pp. 
$3.00 postpaid 
from: 
The Westminster Press 
Witherspoon Building 
Philadelphia, PA 19107 
or Whole Earth 
use he knows thet God has negated and 
. know that God is Jesus, is to know that God 
alf 
has become flesh: no longer does God exist as 
scendent Spirit or sovereign Lord, now God is love. 
s 
the identification of the Church as the body of 
When the Church is known as the body of Christ, 
energy about and within us. Of course, every 
© negates and opposes life becomes bound to an 
the fully incarnate Christ. 
Deprivation Tank Kit 
'voyaged in sensory deprivation—— total dark, 
ody-temperature water, floating—— as early as 
nk, researching anew. 
ich includes all the essential hardware—— filters, 
cally for about $75. 
—SB 
‘Mar Vista CA (60 Ib.) 
ea 
rank Company 
cal Christian refuses to speak of God's existence—— 
priately speaks in his Logic of the soulless word 
inally ceased to exist in his original or primordial 
e point of view. of radical Christianity, the original 
ution or organism existing within but nevertheless apart 
he world, then the body of Christ must inevitably be 
uished from and even opposed to the body of humanity. 
gering that God is dead, we bet that the awesome and 
yower of an infinitely distant and wholly other is finally 
/ our Own guild and resentment, by our refusal of 
‘But the Christian knows that Christ is the source 
ind life: hence the Christian must identify all No- 
as a refusal and resistance of Christ. When the Christian 
d is dead, he is betting upon the real and actual 
His later work with dolphins, LSD, and biocomputer 
made him renowned. 
These days in L.A., he’s back 
ts with Lilly, Samadhi is offering a kit for a wooden 
re control, air circulation, etc. 
The wood may be 
[Suggested by Stan Howard] 
~ 
Tranquility Without Pills 
Transcendental Meditation (“TM”) is undoubtedly the most 
readily accessible meditation regime for most Americans. 
Have a look at this promotional book; if it’s tea you'd like 
to sip, contacting a TM group near you should be no 
problem. No way around it: meditation is good for you. 
—SB 
Tranquility Without Pills 
(All About 
Transcendental 
Meditation) 
Jhan Robbins & 
David Fisher 
1972; 163pp. 
$1.50 postpaid 
from: 
Bantam Books, Inc. 
666 Fifth Ave. 
New York, NY 10019 
or Whole Earth 
Learning how to meditate is not complicated. Twice daily, 
preferably in the morning and evening before eating, all 
THE BEAUTIFUL PEOPLE PARTY 
Truman Capote is the host of the Beautiful People 
Party. 
“Please call me Macho,” he tells Tongue Fu with 
effeminate pride. ‘All my friends do. | mean you really 
have to be quite macho to go through life talking like this, 
dont’cha know?” 
} 
Tongue Fu mingles with the other guests. 
He watches an intense argument, like a tennis game, 
over whether it is healthier to eat one meal a day or six. 
He signs a petition being circulated by Sammy Davis 
Junior, calling on Ralph Nader to investigate the price of 
brown rice. 
He offers a cocktail frankfurter on a yellow toothpick 
to Helen Gurley Brown, who says, “No, thanks, I'ma 
vegetarian this month.” 
“Oh, says Tongue Fu. “Do you eat fish?” 
“No, I’m a real vegetarian.” 
“Well. Do you wear leather?” 
“Only my underwear,” she replies. 
In the kitchen, Tongue Fu joins a group of Hollywood 
movie stars who are carefully cleaning between their capped 
teeth with a special roll of dental floss that has been soaked 
in a cocaine solution. 
In the bedroom, he catches someone from Rent-a-Vandal 
cutting off the sleeves of all the coats and jackets on the 
bed, 
In the bathroom, he listens to Art Linkletter sitting on 
the sink trying to sell a Plutonium Cluster Bomb insurance 
policy to Pat Boone, who is taking an underwater bubble 
bath with the aid of a snorkel. 
Back in the living room, a corporation executive is 
boasting that he has paid less taxes to support the system 
‘than the radical with whom he is debating. 
Over in the corner, there is a fervent discussion about 
the space program. 
““1 remember the first time a man walked on the moon,” 
Rona Barrett is saying to an astronaut’s groupie. “Now, 
tell me the truth, if you had your druthers, would you 
‘rather have seen that escapade on closed circuit television 
or what really happened at Chappaquiddick on the same 
night?” 
“It doesn't matter either way,” answers a practicing 
Satanist as his pocket is being picked by Billy Graham, 
“because when the earthquakes and the floods and the 
pestilence and the plagues of terminal gonorrhea spread 
around this planet— ” 
Tongue Fu has to interrupt: “Excuse me. You seem to 
be— 
gleeful— about these tragedies.” 
“Of course | am. Impending devastation is the only thing 
that gives me any optimism about the future. Would you 
care for a Quaalude?... ”” 
Flashiebackie: 
“There’s always been decadence,”’ the proprietor of a 
novelty items store is saying. “The Industrial Revolution 
was just a missing link between the Roman Empire and this 
portable electric artificial vagina.” 
SPIRIT 
you have to do is sit quietly and let your mind go wherever 
it wants. Normally, individuals are advised to meditate for 
two twenty-minute periods each day. 
Since the only equipment needed to meditate successfully 
is your body, you can meditate almost anywhere. The only 
restrictions are that you should be somewhat comfortable 
and in a place where you'll be as uninterrupted as possible. 
If you’re meditating at home, it is suggested that you take 
the phone off the hook and place animals behind a closed 
door. Many people meditate on the way to work, in the 
office, or in a plane. One vigorous young man claims he 
meditated successfully while floating on his back ina 
swimming pool. 
e 
The first place where you'll meditate is also where you're 
initiated and that could be in any of the 50 states or in 
51 other nations. TM is particularly strong in England, 
West Germany, Norway, and Sweden. It is growing rapidly 
in many other countries. You can secure lists of centers by 
writing: 
SIMS National Coordinating Center 
1015 Gayley Avenue 
Los Angeles, CA 90024 
Captain Mediafreak is filming his sales pitch to a 
customer, Tongue Fu. 
“1 wouldn’t use it myself— I’m a happily married man— 
but we still live in a democracy. These products were 
originally intended to collect semen from bulls for the 
artificia! insemination of cows, but they’re perfectly safe 
for humans. However, their use is not recommended if you 
are a victim of premature ejaculation.” 
“How would | use this artificial vagina?” Tongue Fu 
asks. 
“You plug it in your AC wall socket. This model has a 
temperature control mechanism which approximates 
natural vaginal warmth. You can increase the temperature 
all the way up to unbearable. You lubricate the instrument. 
We recommend our special |Jubricant which is formulated 
for optimum viscosity. You may choose to partially 
pressurize the instrument before penetration. It nas a wide 
range of adjustability ranging from a diameter of two inches 
to entirely closed. This dial here regulates the tiny waves 
of stimulation which set up a pulsation pattern that aids in 
ultimately triggering the ejaculatory nerves. Incidentally, 
we also have a model which plugs into the cigarette lighter 
of your favorite automobile. Sometimes you feel like a spot 
of pleasure while waiting on line for gasoline. Or even in 
traffic; on the way home from work is a popular time.” 
“How does the deluxe model differ?” Tongue Fu asks. 
“The deluxe artificial vagina has rubber folds which, 
upon inflation, roughly simulate the labia majora and minora 
as these tissues are when swollen in sexual passion. It also 
features a three-speed bulbocavernosus muscle which 
contracts rhythmically. Moreover, it is covered by a flesh- 
colored fabric with soft skin-like texture— Caucasian, 
Negroid or Asian. You would probably prefer the latter. 
Incidentally, the deluxe model has a spinchter attachment— 
do you happen to suffer from flaccid penis?— which is 
optional... ” 
Under the influence of cocaine and Quaalude, Tongue Fu 
leaves the Beautiful People party and goes home to the 
abandoned newsstand and his artificial vagina. 
“You are still a virgin,” he says to it, “but not after 
tonight.” 
‘ 
But first he takes it out to dinner and a movie. 
Carrying the artificial vagina in its unmarked storage 
container, he gets on a bus going to Greenwich Village, 
where he walks along West 8th Street. He shares an Orange 
Julius openly with the artificial vagina; doesn’t care who 
sees them. 
On the sidewalk again, he is so zonked out that he bumps 
into a passerby. 
“Excuse me,” says Tongue Fu, “but do you know when 
Safe-Driving Day is?” 
me conanues down the block, stopping at a movie 
theater where Billy Jackoff is playing. 
“Two, please,” he says to the ticket seller. 
In the middle of the film he gets sick and goes to the 
Men’s Room. While retching, he notices that someone has 
written among the graffiti on the wall of his stall: 
ROCKY EATS AFTERBIRTH! 
Tongue Fu takes the pen which is attached by a chain 
to the toilet-tissue dispenser, and writes underneath: 
Placenta is good for you. 
“That will give Rocky food for thought,” he says to the 
artificial vagina, and he takes a bus back home. 
In his sleeping bag that night, Tongue Fu makes sure 
that his artificial vagina reaches several climaxes. He passes 
out before reaching one himself. Later a burning sensation 
around his penis wakes him up, but he pulls out the plug of 
his artificial vagina and goes back to sleep, mumbling, 
“Rosebud, you belong in the Ladies’ Room.... ”” 
[Continued, page 755] 
ON
ST
