eo 
4 
1 
Standard First Aid & 
Personal Safety 
The American National 
Red Cross 
1973; 268pp. 
$1 95 Postpaid 
Control of Communicable Diseases in Man 
The purpose of the manual is “to provide an informative 
text for public health workers of official and voluntary 
health agencies. . 
. 1t enters into plans for anticipating 
the health risks attendant on natural and man-made disasters, 
and serves as a guide to control of the disease situations 
such emergencies create.’’ Gives for each disease: 
_ identification and symptoms, occurrence, infectious agent, 
reservoir, mode of transmission, incubation period, 
period of communicability, susceptibility and resistance, 
and methods of control. A good reference to have around, 
for what a doctor can’t be bothered to tell people. . . 
: 
—Nancy Lane 
Control of 
Communicable Diseases 
in Man 
{An Official Report to the 
American Public Health 
Association) 
Abram S. Benenson, M.D., Ed. 
1970; 316pp. 
$2.75 postpaid 
from: 
American Public Health 
Association 
1015 18th St. N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20036 
or Whole Earth 
Since 1962 South Vietnam has experienced a marked increase 
in plague, with several thousands of cases of bubonic plague, 
both urban and rural, and scattered cases of pneumonic 
plague. In many areas of the world, plague continues to be 
potentially dangerous because of vast areas of persisting wild 
rodent infection and commingling of wild rodents with 
_ domestic rats. 
A. STAPHYLOCOCCAL FOOD POISONING 
: 
1. Identification—An intoxication 
(not an infection) 
of abrup' 
and sometimes violent onset, with severe nausea, cramps, vomiting, 
usually diarrhea, and prostration; often with subnormal temperature 
and sometimes markedly lowered blood pressure. Deaths are exceed- 
ingly rare; duration of illness is commonly not more than a day or 
two, but its intensity may result in surgical exploration in sporadic 
cases. 
Diagnosis is usually through recognition of a group of cases 
with 
the characteristic 
acute, predominantly 
upper gastrointestinal 
symptoms and the short interval between eating a common food item 
and the onset of symptoms. 
Recovery of large numbers of enterotoxin-producing staphylococci on 
routine culture media from stomach contents or a suspected food 
item supports the diagnosis. Phage typing greatly aids epidemiologic 
investigation. 
= 
Differential 
diagnosis considers 
other recognized forms of food 
poisoning, 
and epidemic nausea, vomiting and diarrhea (winter vomit- 
ing disease). 
2. Occurrence—Widespread and relatively frequent; one of the 
Principal acute food poisonings in U.S.A. 
, 
3. Toxic agent—Several enterotoxins of staphylococci 
stable at 
boiling temperature. 
Staphylococci multiply in food, producing the 
toxin which causes poisoning. 
4. Reservoir—In most instances man; occasionally cows. 
5. Mode of transmission—By ingestion of any of a wide variety of 
contaminated food products: pastries, custards, salads and salad dress- 
ings, sandwiches, sliced meats and meat products in which toxin-pro- 
ducing staphylococci of human origin (from purulent discharges of an 
infected finger, abscesses, nasal secretions, or the apparently normal 
skin of hands and forearms) or of bovine origin (contaminated milk 
or milk products) had multiplied in food allowed to stand for several 
hours before serving. Ham and bacon, pressed meat, milk from cows 
with infected udders, occasionally: dried milk, have sometimes been 
implicated in extensive outbreaks. 
Two brand-new editions, with current techniques and 
— 
= 
_ information. Many sections are the same in both 
Sa 
books; keep a copy of Standard First Aid at home 
t 
Advanced First Aid is written for paramedics, and 
| 
has more complete information in some areas. Both 
have very good drug abuse sections. 
—DB 
4 
Pedicle First Aid & 
patiiccms 
mergency Care 
Doubleday & Co. Inc. 
hag Ainerigan National 
501 Franklin Ave. 
e 
ross 
j 
1973; 318pp. 
pees eee 
$2.50 postpaid 
or Whole Earth 
Mormon Advice 
It’s time for a deep bow to the Mormons for 
their research and practice in food storage and 
general-emergency readiness. 
Here is the full text of a recent message to 
Mormons here in Marin County (sent to us 
by Kathy Mayer). It has forethought considera- 
tions—— and generosity—— we’ve seen nowhere 
else in the doom literature generally available. 
—SB 
THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST 
OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS 
Marin Stake 
Novato, California 94947 
Church Welfare Program - Stake President’s Message 
Individual and Family Preparation 
TO: 
THE MEMBERS OF THE MARIN STAKE 
As President of our stake | have been concerned about 
our making provisions for our families in emergency 
situations that may come 
to any of us as a result of illness, 
unemployment, fire, riot, economic dislocation, war, 
earthquakes, etc. It is not my desire to make a mountain 
out of a mole hill but | do think we should consider 
the problems that may confront us and how they relate 
to the area where we live, and to our families. 
The Church Program does not include the concept that 
we will all flee to Utah if an emergency comes, The 
Church in Utah would not be able, nor does it expect to 
send us supplies to meet all emergency situations. In- 
stead we are expected to take care of our selves and con- 
tinue building up the kingdom here in our area. 
We are all familiar with the prophecies that point to 
the fact that we are living in the last days. Prior to the 
coming of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, we know 
there are to be troubled times, with wars, rumors of war, 
strife and tumult, until the whole earth will be filled 
with confusion and chaos, so much so that it will be 
difficult to know right from wrong, and eventually will 
bring an end to nations before the Savior comes. We 
have many promises that the Lord will preserve his people 
if they have lived righteously, This does not mean we 
will individually be spared from the challenges and hard- 
ships that will accompany this period. | do have a firm 
belief and faith that the Lord’s plan will triumph in the 
earth, making the eventual establishment of a millenial 
reign of peace with the Church forming the basis of a 
stable government under Christ. 
The most important thing for us to do is live righteously 
no matter what happens to us in terms of physical diffi- 
culties so that our goal of exaltation in the Celestial 
Kingdom will be assured. It should be the goal of every 
member of this stake and every family to build spiri- 
tuality into our homes so that we will be better able to 
live Christ-like lives thus making it possible to come before 
our Father in Heaven to seek his guidance, direction and 
protection. To enjoy these blessings we should meet 
each request to work in Hie church and in His Kingdom 
on the earth, in welfare assignment, money raising pro- 
jects, on ward chapels etc., and see to it that each request 
and assignment is met fully and properly to the best of 
our ability. 
If we fail in doing this we will be unable to 
work cooperatively with our fellow men when serious 
emergency situations arise. 
The Prophets of the Lord have given us direction in 
what to do. In the June 9, 1973 issue of the Church 
News the “Autonomous Welfare” area was presented. 
Areawise we can expect more and new welfare projects 
with increased interstake cooperation with each of us 
asked to meet increased responsibility with both work 
and sacrifice- 
In the meantime there are things we should and can do. 
Listed below are some specific suggestions that will be 
helpful in making preparation for the future, if and when 
a problem may arise: 
1. Get one year’s supply of food, including some 
_ 
Permanent type storage as well as rotatable stock. If this 
cannot be done get as much as you can, a little at a time. 
rhage that cannot be con- 
© 
trolled by other means. Tourni- 
quets are used far too often 
and are rarely required; they 
_ 
I 
should not be used except in- 
/ TH 
critical emergencies when 
d 
direct pressure on appropriate 
_ 
Pressure points fails to stop 
bleeding. The decision to 
apply a tourniquet is in 
reality a decision to risk 
sacrifice of a limb in order to 
save a life. Once a tourniquet 
is applied, care by a physician 
is imperative. (NOTE. A 
tourniquet should be at least 
2 inches wide.) 
heen 
2. Get yourself and family out of debt. Avoid unwise 
debt. (Do not charge anything you cannot pay for in full 
‘when the bill is presented.) Be sure each member of the 
family understands the family finances and knows where 
important papers are kept. 
3. Plant a garden and fruit trees. Use part of your 
lot to develop a home garden. Plant fruit trees in place of 
general type shade trees so that we can produce fruit to 
eat and for canning purposes. 
4. Get a supply of wood that can be used for heating 
and cooking if gas and electricity should be lost. 
5. Have some candles and a supply of dry matches on 
hand. A kerosene lamp, kerosene (this must be stored 
safely) in a tight metal container. 
6. Arrange a source of water in case of an emergency. 
Store many gallons in Clorox bottles or similar containers 
to be used in emergency for drinking and preparing food. 
If possible a well on your lot may be beneficial. 
7. Learn how, and prepare food for storage and use 
over the winter by canning or drying. Have on hand some 
bottles and caps for home canning. 
8. Talk with your neighbors about cooperation. 
Find out their resources and how you can help them and 
they in turn help you. 
9. Be ready and willing to cooperate with your 
police, firemen and civil defense in their efforts to meet 
emergency situations. 
10. Be prepared to show true brotherly love and 
service to others by sharing with those truly in need. 
True brotherly love in harmony with the gospel would 
be to share rather than fight and drive people away. 
11, Have all necessary shovels, spading forks, hoes, 
rakes, hammers, nails and other tools that may be needed. 
12. Have on hand a roll of plastic material that could 
be used to cover windows, if broken. 
~ 
13. Have on hand a years supply of clothing, extra 
blankets, shoes, etc., to share with those who may have 
lost everything. 
14. Be ready to take some one into your home, and 
care for those injured or in need. 
15. Be ready to care for the sick, have some medical 
supplies and provisions on hand (including special medicine 
vitamins, insulin, etc.) if needed. 
16. Know and understand sanitary procedures and 
how to implement them in case of need. 
17. Know who your home teachers are and how to 
get in touch with them. 
18. Be ready to work for what you get. Do not expect 
a handout so long as you are able to work. Seek to repay 
in labor or services for all help received. Be ready to 
help others without repayment. 
19. 
Have a year’s supply of money on hand where it 
could be available in case an emergency should arise. 
20. Have an emergency kit prepared (food, clothing, 
bedding, medicines, first aid) on hand, so you could move 
to temporary quarters if circumstances warranted doing so. 
21. The Stake Presidency, High Council or your 
Bishopric would appreciate hearing from you and how 
_ 
you feel about these matters. Especially if you have 
some suggestions, write them down and send them to 
us. 
We encourage you to live so that inspiration for you and 
your family may be forthcoming. Use your personal 
initiative in preparing for the future and then seek help 
from the Lord. 
‘ 
May the Lord bless us so that we may enjoy the blessings 
that come from working together with all good people to 
accomplish the righteous purposes necessary in preparing 
the way for the establishment of peace under our Lord 
and Savior, Jesus Christ. 
fe 
= 
Sincerely your brother, 
Weston L. Roe 
President, Marin Stake 
