NOMAIDIICS 
KNIFE BOOKS 
Three overlapping books on knife use, knife making, 
and custom knives. 
There’s more in troductory 
practicality in The Gun Digest Book of Knives 
[suggested by Steve Sanfield] ; more beauty and 
clarity in Knives and Knifemakers; and more gossip 
in the Knife Digest. Pick your take. 
—SB 
The Gun Digest Book a 
The Gun Digest 
Book of Knives 
B. R. Hughes and 
Jack Lewis 
1973; 288pp. 
$5.95 Postpaid 
from: 
Digest Books 
540 Frontage Rd. 
Northfield, 1L 60093 
or Whole Earth 
er ee 
NOM 
i AY 
AEEELIE 
10 
vow 
from Knives and Knifemakers 
a 
ca ae a tots SN an a es cP ea Ue Nn 
Knives. 
. 
. 
As far as economics are concerned, there are two distinct 
types of knives: the ‘‘custom’’ knives hand-crafted by 
various makers in virtually every corner of the country, and 
the “commercial” knives mass-produced by established 
cutlery firms. 
A properly maintained “‘custom’’ knife will last longer than 
its owner, and is a thing of beauty and a joy forever. The 
average mass-produced knife is just so much worthless 
garbage. 
Getting down to specifics—— in tests conducted for Knife 
Digest, we found that the widely advertised Buck knives were 
brittle, subject to frequent breakage, and on the average poorly 
made. All other factory produced knives fared little better 
with the notable exception of_Gerber knives, which we found 
to be made from superior steels, well designed, and carefully 
crafted. With regard to pocketknives, we found no mass- 
Produced example worthy of more than passing notice, with 
the possible exception of certain isolated examples from the 
line. 
Turning our attention to the “custom” knives, we ran head 
on into the common argument, “Custom knives are so 
damned expensive!” 
While the initial investment involved in purchasing a hand- 
made knife may be difficult for some, this expense is more 
than offset by the fact that such a knife will be superior to 
its mass-produced relative in virtually every fashion 
imaginable. To be sure, there are some rather poor hand- 
made knives about, but they represent only a small minority 
of the total out-put. 
KNIVES & FALCONRY 
ys 
ry 
KNIV 
Knives & 
Knifemakers 
Sid Latham 
1973 
$4.95 Postpaid 
from: 
Macmillan Pub. Co., Inc. 
Order Dept. 
Front & Brown Sts. 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth 
N 
Knife Digest 
William L. Cassidy, Ed. 
1974; 289pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
Knife Digest Pub. Co. 
Box 4310 
Sather Gate Station 
Berkeley, CA 94704 
or Whole Earth 
we xaaFe vies 
ouston 
OmsmeMORATINE 
yg, wek EADIE 
me 
b 
ye ay 
LENT 
sasren ENGAAves 
Accessories to aid in keeping an edge on your knife. 
Honing steels are by Gerber and Schrade-Walden. 
The long 
thin rod is a Moon Stick by Case, an excellent tool for quick 
touchup. The large white sharpening stone is a Washita/Soft 
Arkansas stone, and the large black one is the Surgical Black 
to be used as a final touch for razorlike sharpness. The loupe 
is for examining the blade edge. Russell’s oil may be 
purchased quite inexpensively in large cans. 
Of all knives available in the United States today, we found 
the Morseth line represented the ‘‘most for your money;’”” 
the Loveless line to be the all-around “best;’’ the Horn line 
to have the finest folding knives, and the knives made by 
D.E. Henry to be the only ‘‘perfect’’ examples of the 
knifemaker’s art we have ever encountered. 
Morseth knives start at around fifty bucks and boast rapid 
delivery. Loveless knives start at $150.00, and often take 
more than a year to be produced. Horn knives begin at 
$100.00 and are slow in coming, while the knives made by 
, 
D.E. Henry start at $250.00, and will take every day of three 
years. 
Information regarding any of these knives may be had from 
A.G. Russell (who manufactures the Morseth line) at the 
following address: 
Russell’s 
1705 Highway 71, North 
Springdale, AR 72764 
(501) 751-7341 
Russell also supplies the justly famous ‘War Eagle” brand 
Arkansas sharpening stones. A single experience with these 
“natural’’ stones is enough to convince even the most 
Prejudiced knife user that synthetic stones are the sole 
Province of greenhorns and idiots. 
William Cassidy, Editor 
Knife Digest Publishing Co., Inc. 
Berkeley, CA 
: 
FALCONRY 
by Stephen J. Bodio 
When the last Catalog came out | was pleased and surpriseg 
to find my own secret pastime, the “ancient and honorable 
profession,”’ Falconry, included. However, | was dissatisfia 
with the book and pamphlet list there. As it was the last 
Catalog | didn't write but now that | see you are publishing 
an Epilog | have decided to give you a few strong opinions. 
This may seem overly long for such a non-essential Pastime: 
however ! believe in falconry as an unusual, unique, and 
| 
active interface with nature. 
| can think of no other “sport 
in which such an intimate and long-sustained interaction 
with a wild creature exists. 
Criticisms, as follows: 
1. T.H. White’s The Goshawk—— | would certainly leave 
this in—— it is a beautiful book and the only one on what 
might be called the psychelogy of hawking. But | might 
add never to use it as a manual. H.A. Evans (of whom More 
ae called it “‘an account of what nat to do when training 
a 
hawk.” 
2. A fine book for the experienced falconer is 
E. B. Michell’s Art and Practice. But it is emphatically not 
for the beginner. 
It has little on the (absolutely necessary) 
equipment needed. 
And Stuart—— its worst point is that it fails exactly where 
you recommend it; in many ways it is outdated. After you 
have mastered the basics it is fine reading, but even its area 
of greatest concentration—— the flight at Larks with merlins 
has no modern American counterpart. 
3. Stromberg’s—— a bad idea! 
(at least for falconers). The 
Falconer’s association apparently had to put pressure on 
them to make them quit publishing falconer’s names and 
addresses without falconer’s consent. 
Even without this 
complaint the exotic pet trade is an evil and vicious ripoff, 
This has been extensively documented. Hawking gets 
enough bad publicity—— this even in responsible publication 
Such as Natural History—— that we simply cannot afford 
association with anything as sleazy or anti-conservation as 
the exotics trade. A falconer should trap (legally!) his own 
birds, or perhaps in the future breed them which leads into: 
4. Breeding. Stuart, you said “If enthusiasts would buy 
(ouch) and breed hawks instead”’ . 
. . 
Well. . 
. we're trying. But breeding is a very new, very 
Uncertain game at present. 
(Cornell University has the only 
large, consistent, breeding project. 
It is having phenomenal 
success with peregrines and other large falcons. 
However: 
very few backyard setups are succeeding yet. The space, tim 
and knowledge are beyond the resources of all but a handful 
of falconers, even if there were no legal obstacles. (There 
are, both state and federal.) 
Also, there are problems as yet 
unsurmounted, in getting wild caught adults—— which 
virtually all “bought” hawks are—— to breed. 
| know a 
game warden, an excellent falconer of fifteen years experien 
who is entering his third unsuccessful year with a breeding 
project composed of such birds—— and few hawkers have th 
discipline to keep their hands off a fine healthy pair of birds 
for three years—— myself included! 
As it stands no one without a lot of experience should try a 
breeding project with any but the commonest birds. They a 
too vitally needed as wild breeding stock. Trap, fly, release 
might be a far better idea for rare birds, so that they are not 
long removed from the breeding population. 
Enough bitching! 
a few positive suggestions in the way of 
books: 
1. The only basic book | like that is also cheap is a recent, 
British book, Falconry For You by Humphrey Ap Evans, 
1960; 206pp., $4.95, from: Charles T. Branford Co. 
28 Union St., Newton, MA 02159, or Whole Earth. 
Over the years a cunning knot has been evolved, 
now dignified by the name of the falconer’s knot. 
It is nothing sensational, but it does work. 
It is 
very essential to learn it and use it for all hawking 
occasions., 
In addition, it is extremely simple. 
With one hand it is tied. With one hand it is 
instantly undone. The hawk, secured by this 
knot, is permanently safe. 
Do not try to invent another knot. This is the 
quickest and simplest. Constant tugging by an 
angry hawk can undo most others, if they are not 
to be so complicated as to require two hands 
to undo. 
THE FALCONER'S KNOT 
2 
SF 
5 
6 
