LAND 
USE 
oO 
APBWH= 
ater 
pa 
ad 
= 
Human shit has been hidden, avoided and tortured as 
waste. This breezily written book changes “waste” 
to resource and returns America to the purifying 
powers of its soils: 
A teaspoon of living earth contains five million — 
bacteria, twenty million fungi, one million 
protozoa, and two hundred thousand algae. 
Clean Water is the first history of sewage farms, land 
reclamation, and recreational lakes that have used 
the wastewater, the solids, and the nutrients of human 
sewage. 
This is the first book to explain why 
American sanitary engineers have failed to stop 
pollution by diluting wastes with our rivers and 
oceans and/or by building gold-cadillac, high tech 
treatment plants. Instead of “disposing of wastes,” 
cities and communities could put back our fertilizer 
into the great Nutrient Cycles of Earth. Clean Water 
will save every community and city investigating 
their sewage problems, months and months of self- 
education and deliberation. 
Included in Clean Water: an explanation of the high 
tech alternatives (trickling filters, activated sludge, 
chemical tertiary treatment) and the land-retention 
alternative; an extensive bibliography and vocabulary 
needed by all who want to understand the sly sanitary 
engineer; a discussion of health hazards that 
distinguishes clearly between true fears and cultural 
brainwashing; a list of towns using spray-irrigation 
and land-retention treatment systems throughout the 
United States, and a list of water pollution control 
agencies. 
CO eee 
eee eee 
ee 
Composting 
By the time the 30 of us had lived two years in the mountains, 
wed tained our creek water with hepatitis and a handful of 
lesser dysentery diseases. Our friend Redwood showed up 
with Gotaas’ book Composting (Pg. 70) which he said was 
published by the World Health Organization for under- 
developed villages with problems of sanitation and soil 
Composting 
(A Study of the Process 
and its Principles) 
Clarence G. Golueke 
1972: 110pp. 
$2.95 Postpaid 
from: 
Rodale Press, Inc. 
Book Division 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
or Whole Earth 
Aquaculture 
/f you’re interested in vastly increasing your protein 
production, this is the Bible. Every kind of fish, 
lobsters, shrimps, seaweeds. 
If it can be grown in 
water, there’s a chapter. Plus, a great appendix on 
pond siting and construction. 
Your library can get 
it for $37.50. Co-Author McLarney is one of the 
Cape Cod New Alchemists (Pg. 180). 
—PW 
[Suggested by John Todd/ 
Aquatic animals possess a number of advantages for use in 
husbandry. Since the body density of fish and swimming 
crustaceans is nearly the same as that of the water they 
inhabit, they are spared the chore of supporting their 
weight, and thus may devote more food energy to growth 
than terrestrial animals. 
In addition, fish and inverte- 
brates, being cold-blooded animals, expend no energy 
on thermoregulation. (Tuna and other fast swimmers are 
an exception here.) This property would further enhance 
their potential growth rate, which is far more plastic 
than that of higher vertebrates. Russian sources aver that 
accumulation of flesh in the body of carp, per unit of 
assimilated food, is one and one-half times as rapid as in 
swine or chickens and twice as rapid as in cattle or sheep. 
e 
Advantages of small ponds 
. Easier and quicker to harvest. 
. Can be drained and refilled more quickly. 
. Easier to treat disease and parasites. 
. 
If for any reason all or part of the stock in one pond is 
lost, it represents less of a financial loss. 
. 
Less subject to dam and levee erosion by wind. 
at vould like to see an 
equivalen 
ook on Asiatic 
methods of wastewater recycling, septic tanks 
and other homesite treatment systems, and fish 
culture methods for sewage ponds. 
Clean Water 
Leonard A. Stevens 
1974; 289pp. 
$7.95 postpaid 
from: 
E. P. Dutton & Co., Inc 
201 Park Ave. S. 
New York, NY 10003 
or Whole Earth 
In the wintertime spraying 
of sewage effluent moves 
to Penn State wood- 
lands where the soil can 
continue to accept 
water for purification. 
Among the so-called contaminants of sewage he (the 
sanitarian would immediately recognize some elements 
essential to gardening, especially nitrates, phosphates, and 
potash. These compounds, the first two in particular, 
are widely discussed by sanitary engineers because they 
are among the most difficult, indeed, nearly impossible 
ingredients to remove in conventional sewage purification 
systems, and they are blamed for a lot of today’s water 
Pollution. But the compounds are also a holy trinity 
that good gardeners worship as essential to Plant growth. 
fertility. We bypassed the detailed chapter on small scale 
methane digesters in favor of open air composting of human 
and barnyard manure. 
Within a year the water was safe to 
drink, the gardens were flourishing, the County Health 
Department was off our back and Redwood went to Ecuador. 
Rodale’s The Complete Book of Composting is much more 
agriculturally oriented than the other two, including the 
14-day compost method (which always took us 3 or 4 
weeks) and detailed discussions of every imaginable sort of 
compostable garbage from seaweed to sewage sludge. 
This 
book includes lots of the hometown “Personal Experience” 
articles that Rodale books always use when any other writer 
would be reduced to a footnote. 
Thank you Rodale, for 
teaching that all of us are scientists. 
Composting, A Study of the Process and its Principles 
is urban-oriented, although the basics of composting are the 
same whether your interest is sanitation, gardening or solid 
waste management. Golueke, one of the giants in the field, 
attacks the myth that composting would be a cure-all for 
city garbage disposal—— only half of city garbage will break 
© 
down—— but compares it favorably with incineration and 
earth-fill. 
This book is the ideal primer to understanding 
or designing a municipal compost operation, large or small. 
—Malcolm Terence 
Advantages of large ponds 
. 
Less construction cost per acre of water. 
. Take up less space per acre of water. 
. More subject to wind action, therefore less susceptible 
to oxygen deficiency. 
. More conducive to rotation with rice or terrestrial crops. 
1 
z 
3 
4 
Aquaculture 
John Bardach, et. al. 
1972; 868pp. 
$37.50 postpaid 
from: 
Wiley-Interscience 
605 Third Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
Habitat and feeding niches of the principal species in 
classical Chinese carp culture. 
(1) Grass carp (Ctenopharyn- 
godon idellus) feeding on vegetable tops. (2) Big head 
(Aristichtys nobilis) feeding on zooplankton in midwater. 
(3) Silver carp (nypophthalmichtys molitrix) feeding on 
phytoplankton in midwater. 
(4) Mud carp (Cirrhinus 
molitorella) feeding on benthic animals and detritus, in- 
cluding grass carp feces. (5) Common carp (Cyprinus 
carpio) feeding on benthic animals and detritus, including 
grass carp feces. (6) Black carp (Mylopharyngodon Piceus) 
feeding on mollusks. 
of mysteries so that a 
reader can cope with pat 
like leases, land banks, less-than-fee ownersh 
various taxation approaches, etc., in the reader’s 
— 
private or community land problems. 
ie 
Public Control | 
R.W.G. Bryant 
— 
1972; 377pp, 
$12.50 Postpaid 
— 
from: 
Fe 
Harvest House Ltd. 
4795 St. Catherine St. W. 
Montreal H3Z 2B9 
Quebec, Canada 
se 
Every society must establish its own equilibrium between 
Private rights and social responsibilities. Perhaps equilibrium 
action between private and public interests. Even within 
: 
the general framework of Western democracy, the line of 
demarcation within this broad zone varies enormously as _ 
between Sweden and Texas. In the Netherlands, for 
; 
example, it is normal and acceptable for the public authori- 
ties to intervene in the use and disposition of land, to an- 
extent that would be considered unthinkable in the United 
States—— yet both are democratic countries in the generally 
accepted sense of that term... 
. In the United States habits 
of thought dating from the days of the expanding frontier, 
and the concomitant notion that space is limitless are still 
extant. To a degree, the persistence of this outmoded 
Fire Fighting Equipment 
Dear Epilog People — 
Something | very seldom hear back-to-the-landers talk about 
is fire safety. Sometimes forest and brush fires are good, — 
sometimes they are bad, but most always they should be 
$ 
optional. Fighting them requires skill and stamina and. good 
equipment. 
| can’t help on the former two, but on the latter 
I'd like to suggest Western Fire Equipment Co. 
The company got started back in the 1880’s when Robert. 
Orr made fire fighting tools out of old saw mill blades. — 
Over the years they have developed a complete line of fire 
fighting tools. Most everything they sell meets U.S. Forest 
Service specs. Their equipment is expensive and well made. 
Western Fire is not geared for walk-in retail trade, but ‘if you 
are by their office/warehouse and know that you needa 
~ 
double bit brush hook, a heavy duty fire swatter, a back- 
— 
pack fire pump or other hardware like that, stop by and they 
will sell you one. Don’t send for a catalog unless you're in 
a position to buy a lot of stuff. Call them if you need to 
find an order number or price for a specific item. When 
— 
you go in, tell them your friend in the Forest Service sent 
you—— the FS is one of Western's biggest customers. Better 
yet, ask your local Forest Service people what they think 
— 
about Western’s equipment before you invest. The FS might 
also be able to help you intelligently determine your reall 
fire safety needs. 
~ 
Western Fire Equipment Co. 
440 Valley Drive 
Brisbane, CA 94005 
Fost 
Chuck Missar 
Menlo Park,CA 
