*Colonial Craftsmen 
Pr 
the 
| 
* Colonial Living 
= 
* Frontier Living 
Are these fine Edwin Tunis books really practical? No, not 
on the face of it. They tantalize you with detailed sketches 
but sketchy details of old crafts and tools, those very crafts 
which have long been obsolesced by machinery. 
So what’s the value? The value to the CATALOG is nostalgia 
These books service the desire of our market to back the 
hell out of 20th Century confusion. 
And just now, nostalgia may not only be powerful, but in 
the big picture very practical, if carried out. One educationa 
route out of a dead end is indeed back. Go back, start over 
where it feels good, get it right this time. Not for everybody, 
i 
for sure; just enough to unstack the deck a little, enhance 
the variety of mistakes and opportunities available. 
The dolphins went back, and they‘re doing al! right. 
[Suggested by Pat R. Matlock, Bruce Gifford and 
Kieth Gilbert] 
Colonial Craftsmen 
Edwin Tunis 
1965; 159 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid 
all three from: 
The World Publishing Co. 
2231 West 110th Street 
Cleveland, Ohio 44102 
Frontier Living 
Edwin Tunis 
1961; 166 pp. 
Colonial Living 
Edwin Tunis 
1957; 156 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
$6.95 postpaid 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The Chandler 
A coionia! housewife never threw away any fat. She rendered it 
and stored it in pottery crocks. 
In very early days the family 
burned it in grease lamps for light, but it was a smelly, smoky 
light and candles were better. 
The mistress could make ‘‘taller 
dips” by repeatedly dipping wicks into hot tallow and cooling, 
between dips, what adhered. Some families owned tin molds 
that would cast as many as a dozen candles. The traveling 
chandler brought along his own big molds that cast six dozen at 
once. He strung them up with the loosely spun tow-linen 
candle-wick that the house provided, melted down some of 
the harder fat, and cast a year’s supply of candles. 
The softer 
fat the chandler turned into soap by boiling it, outdoors, with 
lye. As he boiled, he stirred with a wooden paddle, always in 
one direction because of a superstition that the soap would 
fail if he didn’t. 
Casting lead pipe 
Colonial Craftsmen 
A man who wanted to run water through something other than 
a wooden pipe usually chose a lead one. The quick improvements 
in the ways of making such pipe show how fast technology advanced 
once it got started. The earliest way was to bend a strip of lead 
lengthwise around an iron bar, weld the seam, and then pull the 
bar out. Pipe made that way was likely to crack. A better early 
way was casting in a long brass mold, hinged to open and made 
: 
with a series of funnels along its top into which the plumber 
poured molten lead. He pulled the solid iron core out with a 
windlass before he opened the mold——it was quite a pull. Such 
cast pipe had flaws and bubbles in it. 
About 1800, plumbers began both to ‘“‘cold-draw” and to ‘‘cold- 
roll’ lead pipe. In either case they cast a thick-walled lead collar 
aound one end of a polished steel bar. Drawing was pulling the 
collar through progressively smaller round dies that made the 
metal flow along the bar as a pipe, becoming thinner and longer 
with each die. Passing the collar between grooved rollers accom- 
plished the same result. Hot drawing, done as early as the 1830's, 
was better than either. This was a continuous operation of pumping 
hot liquid lead into one end of a mold and pulling finished pipe out 
at the other. Lead sets up quickly as it cools, so the mold didn’t 
have to be a very long one, but the speed of the draw and the 
volume of lead delivered by the pump had to remain constant and 
in the right relation to each other. Lead pipe is still made by a 
refinement of this method, using hydraulic pressure to force cold 
ee Dru 8 ie, 
Colonial Craftsmen 
# Craftool 
ss |}he Craftool Compan 
#2 1 Industrial Road 
More than other craft suppliers, this outfit has whole- 
system supplies. A spinning wheel as well as looms. 
Various hand presses. A whole paper-making mill 
4nd the best line we've seen of beginning 
[Suggested by Julia Brand and Cynthia Mathews] 
Woodworking/Craft Kit $79.95 + 
Gem Stone/Tumbling & Jewelry Making Kit $24.95 
Batik/Fabric Dyeing Kit $24.95 
Bookbinder’s Repair Kit $14.95 
Clay Modeling & Sculpture Kit $24.95 
Woodcarving & Sculpture Kit $34.95 
Graphic Arts/Etching & Block Printing Kit $49.95 
5 
Jewelry Making Kit $59.95 
Stone/Sculpture Kit $34.95 
Printing Press/Outfit $99.95 
The ART PRESS 
w 
$159.50 
tii WWONKINKQU ADT ft 
wa__f 
CRAFTOOL COMPLETE BOOKBINDING OUTFIT 
All the basic equipment and tools necessary for the bookbinding craftsman. 
Standing Press 1450-B 
Shears 
Drills 
Stitching Frame 1380-B 
Needles 
Nipper 
Lying Press 1560-AZ 
Backing Hammer 
Glue Brush 
Book Saw 
Hand Drill 
Bone Folder 
Book on “Bookbinding” 
2 Knives 
Wax 
No. 2800B — Complete with laminated top bench 24x 48" 
x 32" high 
© 
$248.00 
No. 2801-LB — Tools and equipment only — less bench and 
top 
$215.00 
I been at Morning Star for a wee 
now and haven’t been laid yet. — 
z 
Res 
Wattle-and-daub cabins supported on “‘crotcl 
Colonial Living 
hse 
Once itemporary shelters had een set up and the ‘‘wolves who sa 
upon their tayles and grinned at.us’’ had been driven back a little 
One way to corner 
a squared-log house 
so the joints 
will drain 
-settler. At Plymouth they tried holding all the land in common, but 
it didn't work. At Salem and Boston and other later towns, a space 
was set aside for the church and a large area as a common pastu 
what remained was divided up as building sites. The choice loca 
went to the governor, the ministers, and the other elite in strict 
ord 
of precedence, the rest being distributed by lot among the comme 
folk. 
: 
Frontier Living 
wind vanes, 
with canvas 
sails 
Where there are no official police, any group of people will make 
shift to police itself. The pioneers were beyond the reach of law, 
but they managed to restrict misbehavior within certain limits. They 
were especially severe with anyone who injured the group. Minor 
offenders, like petty thieves or those who shirked their share of 
community work, were ‘‘hated out.’ They cut the culprit out of 
all social activities, but they by no means ignored him. On the 
contrary, they conferred unpleasant nicknames on him that were 
not merely whispered behind his back. One and all told him loudly 
what they thought of him any time they met him. 
windlass drive CD 
The top social occasion of the backwoods, even more popular than 
a funeral, was a wedding. The festivities began at the bride's home 
and there seems never to have been achurch ceremony. 
!ndeed, 
there is no mention of religion at all in any of teh old accounts 
except One note that marriages were sometimes postponed until 
a parson showed up. 
millstones 
i 
Gover cut away) 
The Ring-tailed Roarers and their female counterparts had full 
scope at weddings. Those who were not invited were likely to 
ambush the groom’s party and attempt to kidnap him en route to 
his nuptials. The women often made a similar attack on the bride. 
We aren‘t told what happened when these forays succeeded. 
By 
established custom, the bride’s father set a quart of whisky on 
his cabin doorstep, and from a mile away the male guests staged 
a wild horse race to get it. The winner carried it back in triumph 
to give the groom the first swig. 
WW As 
} 
= 
at 
sifting meal 
& 
with a"temse" 
e 
Frontier Living 
