_ hard look that’s around. The author is a well-regarded young 
_ The Population Bomb 
There’s a shit storm coming. Not a nice clean earthquake or 
satisfying revolution but pain in new dimensions: world pain, 
.sub-continents that starve and sub-continents that eat unable 
to avoid each other. The consequences will dominate our 
lives. In the heart of the problem are the solutions, and the 
sooner we’re clear about what’s happening the sooner the 
‘solutions can work their:way out. 
This book is the best first 
population biologist and ecologist who freaked out of his lab 
and into the media with the bad news. Besides freaking well 
he reports well. 
The Population Bomb 
‘Dr, Paul rE Ehrlich 
1968; 223 pp. 
$.95 postpaid from 
Ballantine Books, Inc. 
c/o Simon & Schuster, Inc. 
_ 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. ¥Y. 10020 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
It is, of course, socially very acceptable to reduce 
the death rate. Billions of years of evolution have 
given us all a powerful will to live. Intervening in 
the birth rate goes against our evolutionary values. 
During all those centuries of our evolutionary past, 
the individuals who had the most children passed on 
their genetic endowment in greater quantities than 
those who reproduced less. Their genes dominate 
our heredity today. 
¥ndividual and soc 
phenomenon that 
* 
Population, Resources, Environment 
In Population Bomb Ehrlich spared us the customary 
statistics and graphs, and he was accused of being no 
scientist. So here are the statistics and graphs and much 
besides——a 400-page textbook on the population- 
- ecology crisis. Don’t bother taking a course. 
The lab is 
the world. 
Population, Resources, Environment 
Paul R. Ehrlich, Anne H. Ehrlich 
1970; 400 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid 
from: 
W. H. Freeman and Company 
«.\66Q@,Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
Paul, R. Elutich 
tone H Ehligh 
Population. 
_ Resources 
Environment | 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
ISSUES IN HUMAN ECOLOGY. 
Secs eG CS FCC 
Sees eee eee a sesso eseEEseeeeeoeS 
BOSSRSSCOCCCR 
EST SSeeSh ee eseoeeseeeseeeeeeE 
* 
Resources and Man 
A fugue of finiteness, this just-published work portrays the 
true size of our North American yard. How much of the 
depletabies there is, and how long they will last at present 
or projected rates. Some indications of the levels of 
exploitation where the “‘non-depletables” start to give up 
on regeneration. For what might have been a any book, 
the writing has considerable hair on. 
if 
60 
| Resources and Man 
50 
Resources and Man 
Cloud, Bates, Chapman, Hendricks, 
| 
Hubbert, Keyfitz, Lovering, Ricker 
Fe 
1969; 159 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
30 
from: 
W. H. Freeman and Co., 
660'Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
Dy) °° 
Production 
Rate 
(10% 
bbls 
/yr) 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Peace, population, pollution, and resources are 
the central interlocking variables whose unsat-. 
io} 
¥F: 
4 
= 
; 
+ 
“ 
; 
1950 
1975 
200 
5 
isfactory management threatens our options. 
ile 
a 
vents 
oe 
aap 
2078 
pote 
4 
3 
ee 
. 
Ys 
2 
FIGURE 8.23. 
4 
Complete cycles of world crude- oil production for two values of.G,, 
i 
4 
Tk: 
} 
ae 
rx rgd 
nee 
e 
“ 
em 
Phiyh® 
: 
The reproductive function of sex must be shown as 
just one of its functions, and one that must be care- 
fully regulated in relation to the needs of the 
placed on sex as an interpersonal relationship, as an 
important and extremely pleasurable aspect of 
being human, 
as mankind’s major and most enduring 
recreation, as a fountainhead of his humor, as a 
“The battle to feed all of humanity is over, In the 
1970's the world will undergo famines—hundreds 
of millions of people are going to starve to death in 
spite of any crash programs embarked upon now. | 
At this late date nothing can prevent a substantial 
increase in the world death rate, although many 
lives could be saved through dramatic programs to 
*stretch’ the carrying capacity of the earth by in- 
creasing food production, But these programs will 
only provide a stay of execution unless they are 
accompéznied by determined and successful efforts 
atpopulation control. Population control is the 
conscious regulation of the numbers.of human 
beings to meet the needs, not just of individual 
GYR}. 
4 icra heb ttated Bek 
families, but of society as a whole. 
destroyed by its consequences. 
e 
iety. Much emphasis must be 
affects every aspect of his being 
The global polluting and exploiting activities of the DCs are even 
more serious than their internal problems. Spaceship Earth is now 
filled to capacity or beyond and is running out of food. And yet 
the people traveling first class are, without thinking, demolishing 
the ship's already overstrained life-support systems. The food- 
producing mechanism is being sabotaged. The devices that main- 
tain the atmosphere are being turned off. The temperature- 
control system is being altered at random. Thermonuclear bombs, 
poison gases, and super-germs have been manufactured and stock- 
piled by people in the few first-class compartments for possible 
future use against other first-class passengers in their competitive 
struggles for dwindling resources——or perhaps even against the - 
expectant but weaker masses of humanity in steerage. 
But, unaware 
that there is no one at the controls of their ship, many of the 
Passengers ignore the chaos or view it with cheerful optimism, con- 
vinced that everything will turn out all right. 
e 
1877-1878 North China. ‘“‘Appalling famine raging throughout 
four provinces [of] North China. Nine million people reported 
destitute, children daily sold in markets for [raising means to 
procure] food. 
... 
Total population of districts affected, 70 
millions. 
...'" The people's faces are black with hunger; they 
are dying by thousands upon thousands. Women and girls and 
boys are openly offered for sale to any chance wayfarer. When 
| left the country, a respectable married woman could be easily 
bought for six dollars, and a little girl for two. In cases, however, 
where it was found impossible to dispose of their children, 
parents have been known to kill them sooner than witness their 
prolonged suffering, in many instances throwing themselves 
afterwards down wells, or committing suicide by arsenic. 
- 
C) 
All flesh is grass. This simple phrase summarizes a basic principle of 
biology that is essential to an understanding of the world food prob- 
lem. The basic source of food for all animal population is green 
plants——‘‘grass.’” Human beings and all other animals with which 
we share this planet obtain the energy and nutrients for growth, 
development, and sustenance by eating plants directly, by eating 
other animals that have eaten plants, or by eating animals that 
have eaten animals that have eaten plants, and so forth. 
That the fossil fuels be conserved for uses which cannot be met by 
other sources. 
The fossil fuels (petroleum, natural gas, coal) are 
needed for petrochemicals, synthetic polymers, and essential 
liquid fuels, for which suitable substitutes are as yet unknown. 
They might also play a part in synthetic or bacterial food production 
(although such a use is also limited). They should not be spent in _ 
the generation of electricity, for heating, and for industrial purposes 
where substitutes can qualify. The Department of the Interior 
should be authorized and directed to develop and institute a 
practicable and effective hydrocarbon conservation program. 
Nothing could be more misleading to our children 
than our present affluent society. They will inherit 
a totally different world, a world in which the 
standards, politics, and economics of the 1960's are 
dead. As the most powerful nation in the world 
° 
Ree 
today, and its largest consumer, the United States 
e 
hae 
cannot stand isolated. We are today involved in the 
events leading to famine; tomorrow we may be 
Remember also that in virtually all underdeveloped 
countries, people have gotten the word about the 
better life it is possible to have. They have seen 
colored pictures in magazines of the miracles of 
Western technology. They have seen automobiles 
and airplanes. They have seen American and Euro- 
pean movies. Many have seen refrigerators, tractors, 
and even TV sets. Almost all have heard transistor 
radios. They know that a better life is possible. 
They hae what we like to call ‘rising expectations.’ 
: 
meen 
|f twice as many people are to be happy, the miracle 
of doubling what they now have will not be enough. 
« 
{t will only maintain today’s standard of living. 
There will have to be a tripling or better. Needless 
- 
to say, they are not going to be happy. 
80 PERCENT (64 YEARS 
[80 PERCENT (58 YEARS)*| 
A ship has hit the rocks and is 
sinking. 
“passengers scream for help. Some j 
and are devoured by the circling 
st 
‘er 
distinguished scientists is on board. ‘One of th = 
number suggests that they can help man the pu 
‘Oh, no!’ shout the others. ‘That might hurt 
captain’s feelings. Besides, pumping is not o 
business, 
It’s outside our field of competence.’ You 
can guess what they do, They appoint a commit 
to study the problem, with subcommittees on mariné 
n 
engineering and navigation. They announce t 
hi 
passengers that in two or three years the comm 
will produce a wonderful report which will be 
— 
acceptable to the Passengers, the captain, and tt 
steamship line. Not so passive are the politicians. 
Some jump up to say that the passengers don’t 
understand the political realities of the situation. 
_ 
Other more progressive politicians grab thimbles and 
start bailing, stopping every few seconds to accept 
praise for their valiant efforts. 
— 
pe 
Careless overuse of DDT has promoted to‘ pes 
category many species of mites, little insectlike 
relatives of spiders. The insects which ate the mites 
were killed by the DDT, and the mites were resis- 
tant to DDT. There you have it—instant pests, and 
more profits for the agricultural chemical industry 
What's more, some of the more potent miticides 
chemists have developed with which to do battle 
seem to be powerful carcinogens cance 
aaa 
substances. 
The old idea that industry could create the mess and 
then the taxpayers must clean it up has to go. 
Th 
garbage produced by an industry is the rosnans 
of that industry. 
eee & 
Because, as indicated in the acknowledgments, the various dra’ 
our manuscript were thoroughly reviewed by a large number o 
critics who are competent in the various areas covered, we be! 
that the factual basis of the book is sound throughout. We do 
believe that such minor errors as may be revealed in any of our 
figures, estimates, or interpretations will change the thrust of our 
major conclusions. In many areas, of course, it is impossible to 
determine exactly what has happened, or to know what the sig- _ 
nificance of certain trends may be. Data are often unreliable or 
— 
unavailable, and our understanding of the complexities of ecolo 
“ie 
systems and human behavior is still fragmentary. But in dealtaae ee 
with the population-resource-environment crisis, it is important. to > 
recognize that people are going to have to learn to make decisions 
_ 
in the face of such uncertainty. Possible benefits will have to be 
weighed against possible risks, and a great deal of thought given — 
to possible future events which may seem unlikely but which will 
be catastrophic if they do occur. 
\t would be a major step forward 
for mankind if all people could know the general state of the world 
and could be informed as to just what chances are being taken 
their lives and the lives of future aks pels 
included in this book, choices of those that were to be treated in 
detail had to be made. We have tried to emphasize those which 
seemed to us to be of the most general importance, and we make 
no apology either for our selection of subjects or for the person: L 
style and approach we have used throughout. We have not atte! 
to give equal weight to both sides of all controversial issues; 
where we think one side is correct we have so indicated. We also 
make no claim to having tried to detail all exceptions to gene: 
rules. We hope that this book will provide concerned readers wit 
enough background to enable them to make informed political 
decisions about environmental issues and’ 
to combat what C. P. 
Snow has referred to as the ‘excessive unsimplicity”’ which, in 
his words, ‘‘crops up whenever anyone makes a proposal which 
opens up a prospect, however distant, of new action. 
It involves. 
a skill which all conservative functionaries are masters of, as they — 
ingeniously protect the status quo: 
it is called the ‘technique of — 
the intricate defensive.’ "’ 
i 
increasing the probability of very large disasters."” 
Kenneth E. Boulding 
Some of the major tisheries whose take has declined i 
antly are listed below; the dates indicate asia 
) 
beginning of a major slump from which there has be 
important recovery as yet: 
250 x10? 
bbls 
Antarctic blue whales - 
East Asian sardine 
California sardine 
Northwest Pacific salmon 
Atlanto-Scandian herring 
1935 
1945, 
1946 
1950 
1961 
1962 
— 
ox 
1962 
© 
Species now showing signs of strain include the Ne 
Berents Sea cod 
Antarctic fin whales 
land cod, North Sea herring, menhaden, British 
herring, Bering Sea flatfishes, and yellowfin t 
eastern Pacific. Even if these are not yet being 
fis! 
point where sustainable yield has been reduced, tl 
ere 
| 
little prospect of their yield being increased 
apprec 
ae 
| 
° 
