Laws of Form 
The laws of form have finally been written! With a “Spencer 
Brown” 
transistorized power razor (a Twentieth Century 
model of Occam’s razor). G. Spencer Brown cuts smoothly 
through two millennia of growth of the most prolific and 
persistent of semantic weeds, presenting us with his superbly 
written Laws of Form. This Herculean task which now, in 
_ retrospect, is of profound simplicity rests on his discovery 
of the form of laws. Laws are not descriptions, they are 
commands, injunctions: “Do!” Thus, the first constructive 
proposition in this book (page 3) is the injunction: “Drawa 
distinction!” 
an exhortation to perform the primordial 
creative act. 
After this, practically everything else follows smoothly: a 
rigorous foundation of arithmetic, of algebra, of logic, of 
a calculus of indications, intentions and desires; a rigorous 
development of laws of form, may they be of logical 
relations, 
of descriptions of the universe by physicists 
and cosmologists, or of functions of the nervous system 
which generates descriptions of the universe of which it Is 
itself a part. 
The ancient and primary mystery which still puzzled Ludwig 
Wittgenstein (Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus, A. J. Ayer (ed), 
Humanities Press, New York, 19617, 166 pp.), namely that 
the world we know is constructed in such a way as to be 
able to see itself, G. Spencer Brown resolves by a most 
_ surprising turn of perception. He shows, once and for all, 
that the appearance of this mystery is unavoidable. But 
what is unavoidable is, in one sense, no mystery. 
The 
fate of all descriptions is “”... what is revealed will be 
concealed, but what is concealed will again be revealed.” 
At this point, even the most faithful reader may turn 
suspicious: how can the conception of such a simple 
injunction as “Draw a distinction!” produce this wealth 
of insights? It is indeed amazing——but, in fact, it does. 
The clue to all this is Spencer Brown’s ingenious choice for 
the notation of an operator | which does several things at 
one time. 
This mark is a token for drawing a distinction, 
say, by drawing a circle on a sheet of paper which creates 
a distinction between points inside and outside of this 
circle; by its asymmetry (the concave side being its inside) 
it provides the possibility of indication; finally, it stands 
for an instruction to cross the boundary of the first 
distinction by crossing from the state indicated on the 
inside of the token to the state indicated by the token 
(A space with no token indicates the unmarked state). 
Moreover, these operations may operate on each other, 
generating a primary arithmetic, an opportunity which 
is denied us by a faulty notation in conventional arith- 
metic as pointed out by Karl Menger in “Gulliver in the 
Land without One, Two,Fhree” (The Mathematical 
Gazette, 53, 24-250; 1959). 
These operations are defined in the two axioms (no other 
ones are needed) given on pages 1 and 2. They are: 
Axiom 1. The law of calling 
The value of a call made again is the value of the call. 
That is to say, if 
aname is called and then is called again, the 
value indicated by the two calls taken together is the value 
indicated by one of them. 
That is to say, for any name, to recall is to call. 
ales 
the ‘‘form of condensation”) 
(In notation: 
Axiom 2. The law of crossing 
The value of a crossing made again is not the value of the crossing. 
That is to say, if it is intended to cross a boundary and then it 
is intended to cross it again, the value indicated by the two 
intentions taken together is the value indicated by none of them. 
That is to say, for any boundary, to recross is not to cross. 
=| = 
For instance, take a complex expression 
e- FT 
al al 
Then, by the two axioms 
(In notation: 
the ‘form of cancellation’’.) 
E= 
/n the beginning this calculus is developed for finite expres- 
sions only (involving a finite number of |), simply because 
otherwise any demonstration would take an infinite number 
of steps, hence would never be accomplished. However, in 
Chapter 11, Spencer Brown tackles the problem of infinite 
expressions by allowing an expression to re-enter its own 
space. 
This calls for trouble, and one anticipates now the 
emergence of antinomies. Not so! In his notation the 
classical clash between a simultaneous Nay and Yea never 
occurs, the system becomes “‘bi-stable”’, flipping from one 
to the other of the two values as a consequence of previous 
values, and thus generates time! Amongst the many gems 
in this book, this may turn out to be the shiniest. 
Sometimes the reading gets rough because of Spencer 
Brown’s remarkable gift for parsimony of expression. But 
the 30 pages of “Notes” following the 12 Chapters of 
presentation come to the reader’s rescue precisely at that 
moment when he lost his orientation in the lattice of a 
complex crystal. Consequently, it is advisable to read 
them almost in parallel with the text, if one can suppress 
the urge to keep on reading Notes. 
In an introductory note Spencer Brown justifies the math- 
ematical approach he has taken in this book: “Unlike more 
superficial forms of expertise, mathematics is a way of 
saying less and less about more and more.” If this strategy 
is pushed to its limit, we shall be able to say nothing about 
all. This is, of course, the state of ultimate wisdom and 
provides a nucleus for a calculus of love, where distinctions 
are suspended and all is one. Spencer Brown has made a 
major step in this direction, and his book should be in the 
hands of all young people——no lower age limit required. 
[Reviewed by Heinz Von Foerster. 
Suggested by Steve Baer] 
Laws of Form 
G. Spencer Brown 
1969; 141 pp. 
- 
$5.40 postpaid 
r\ 
from: 
& 
Blackwell's 
wz 
Broad Street 
Oxford, ENGLAND 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG REN 
ws 
CONSTRUCTION 
Draw a distinction. 
CONTENT 
Call it the first distinction. 
Call the space in which it is drawn the space severed or cloven 
by the distinction. 
Call the parts of the space shaped by the severance or cleft 
the sides of the distinction or, alternatively, the spaces, states, or 
contents distinguished by the distinction. 
INTENT 
Let any mark, token, or sign be taken in any way with or with 
regard to the distinction as a signal. 
Cali the use ofvany signal its intent. 
In all mathematics it becomes apparent, at some stage, that we 
have for some time been following a rule without being con- 
sciously aware of the fact. This might be described as the use 
of a covert convention. A recognizable aspect of the advancement 
of mathematics consists in the advancement of the consciousness 
of what we are doing, whereby the covert becomes overt. 
Mathematics is in this respect psychedelic. 
e 
One of the most beautiful facts emerging from mathematical studies 
is this very potent relationship between the mathematical process 
and ordinary language. There seems to be no mathematical idea 
of any importance or profundity that is not mirrored, with an almost 
uncanny accuracy, in the common use of words, and this appears 
especially true when we consider words in their original, and 
sometimes long forgotten, senses. 
e 
The main difficulty in translating from the written to the verbal 
form comes from the fact that in mathematical writing we are 
free to mark the two dimensions of the plane, whereas in speech 
we can mark only the one dimension of time. 
Much that is unnecessary and obstructive in mathematics today 
appears to be vestigial of this limitation of the spoken word. 
® 
Any evenly subverted equation of the second degree might be 
called, alternatively, evenly informed. 
. We can see it over a sub- 
version (turning under) of the surface upon which it is written, 
or alternatively, as an in-formation (formation within) of what 
it expresses. 
Such an expression is thus informed in the sense of having its 
own form within it, and at the same time informed in the sense 
of remembering what has happened to it in the past. 
We need not suppose that this is exactly how memory happens in 
an animal, but there are certainly memories, so-called, constructed 
this way in electronic computers, and engineers have constructed 
such in-formed memories with magnetic relays for the preston 
part of the present century. 
We may perhaps look upon such memory, in this simplified in- 
formation, as a precursor of the more complicated and varied 
forms of memory and information in man-and the higher animals. 
We can also regard other manifestations of the classical forms 
of physical or biological science in the same spirit. 
There is a tendency, especially today, to regard existence as the 
source of reality, and thus as a central concept. But as soon as 
it is formally examined (cf Appendix 2), existence [ex = out, 
stare = stand. Thus to exist may be considered as to stand 
outside, to be exiled.] is seen to be highly peripheral and, as 
such, especially corrupt (in the formal sense) and vulnerable. 
The concept of truth is more central, although still recog- 
nizably peripheral, 
If the weakness of present-day science is 
that it centres round existence, the weakness of present-day 
logic is that it centres round truth. 
Throughout the essay, we find no need fo the concept of 
truth, apart from two avoidable appearances (true = open to 
proof) in the descriptive context. At-no point, to say the 
least, is it a necessary inhabitant of the calculating forms. 
These forms are thus not only precursors of existence, they 
are also precursors of truth. 
It is, | am afraid, the intellectual block which most of us 
come up against at the points where, to experience the world 
clearly, we must abandon existence to truth, truth to indication, 
indication to form, and form to void, that has so held up the 
development of logic and its matheriatics.. 
you presume, it just cues and rains on you. Nevermin 
The Tao Teh King js a very old book (500 B.C. is one 
written by a legend named Lao Tzu. It describes how th 
universe is and makes an excellent case for harmony as 
the 
only survival technique that works. This translation 5 le 
Archie Bahm is straightforward. 
(For other translations, see p. 80) 
Tao Teh King 
: 
Lao Tzu; Archie Bahm 
Fe 
? B.C., 1958; 126 pp. g = 
$.85 postpaid 
re 
[Suggested by Jack L Loeffler 
from: 
age 
ee 
Frederick Ungar Publishing Co 
250 Park Avenue South 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
_ pretation as being equal to his existence. 
We cannot escape the fact that the world we know is constructed i 
order (and thus in such a way as to be able) to see itself. 
This is indeed amazing. 
Not so much in view of what it sees, although thié may appear — 
fantastic enough, but in respect of the fact that it can see at all. 
. 
“+. 
But in order to do so, evidently it must first cut itself up into 
at 
least one state which sees, and at least one other state which is _ 
seen. 
AP 
is only partially itself. We may take it that the world undoubted 
is itself (i.e. is indistinct from itself), but, in any attempt to see 
itself as an object, it must, equally undoubtedly, act so as to 
itself distinct from,.and therefore false to, itself. In this 
c 
it will always partially elude itself. 
: 
To explain, literally to lay out in aplake where ps 
readily seen. Thus to place or plan in flat \and, 
dimensions for the sake of appearance. Thus 
‘out at the cost of i ignoring the reality or ric 
put out. Thus to takea view yey from 
It is because we single out something and treat it as distinct Jan 
+. 
Everyone says: ‘Nature is great, yet Nature is simple.” 
It is is 
ofa because it is plints 
=~ 
Nature sustains itself through three precious Pree ee 
which one does well to embrace and follow. 
These are gentleness, frugality and humility. 
i 
When one is gentle, he has no fear of retaliation. 
% 
When one is frugal, he can afford to be generous. 
ee 
When one is humble, no one challenges his leadership. 
But when rudeness replaces gentleness, 
And extravagance replaces frugality, 
And pride replaces humility, 
Then one is doomed. 
Since a gentle attack arouses little antagonism, 
And a gentle defense provokes little anger, 
Nature predisposes to gentleness those most suited for 
survival. 
~ 
e 
_ 
Intelligent control appears as uncontrol or freedom. 
And for that reason it is genuinely intelligent control. 
Unintelligent control appears as external domination. 
And for that reason it is really unintelligent control. 
Intelligent control exerts influence without appearing to 
do so. 
Unintelligent control tries to influence by making a show o} 
force. 
x 
from other things that we get the idea of its opposite. Beauty 
for example, once distinguished, suggests its opposite, ugliness 
And Goodness, when we* ei of it, is naturally opposed wo. 
badness. 
In fact, all distinctions naturally appear as opposites. ‘Ae 
opposites get their meaning from each other and find their 
completion only through each other. The meanings of “is and 
“is not” arise from our distinguishing between them. 
as 
Likewise, “difficult and easy,” “long and short,” “high and 
low,” “loud and soft,” “before and after” —all derive their a 
meanings from each other. 
Z 
Therefore the intelligent man accepts what is as it is. In seekii 
to grasp what is, he does not devote himself to the making of ~~ 
distinctions which are: then mistaken to be separate existences. 
In teaching, he teaches, not by describing and pointing ous 
differences, but by example. 
Whatever is exists, and he sees that nothing is gained by 
ee 
representing what fully exists by’a description 
aaa 
lesser 
diluted kind of existence. 
: 
If something exists which cannot be wholly revealed to him wi 
his viewpoint, he does not demand of it that it be nora Dur, 
what it seems to him. 
po x 
If some one else interprets him, he does not trust ‘that inter- 
If some part of him stands out as if a superior representati 
of his nature, he will not surrender the rest of his nature — 
to it. 
And in not surrendering the iba of his nature to om pa 
of it, he keeps himself intact. 
; 
This is how the intelligent man preserves his nature. 
In this severed and mutilated condition, whatever it ser 
