Commonsense Childbirth 
Mrs. Hazell writes from the personal experience of having 
had one child under anaesthesia, another using La Maze 
method, and a third at home. 
The book covers pregnancy, 
birth, and care of the newborn. 
/t is gently positive about 
husband-coaching and breastfeeding. 
There’s a good chap- 
ter on home deliveries. 
It’s written by an intelligent woman, 
and it doesn’t needlessly complicate what is really a very 
simple method of controlled breathing and relaxation. 
[Reviewed by Pam Smith. 
Suggested by Judity Bass] 
Commonsense Childbirth 
Lester Dessez Hazell 
Commionsense 
1969; 243 
pp. 
C] il i oo | 
aes 
widbirth 
$5.95 postpaid 
\ 
{/, 
A COMPLETE GUIDE TO THE NEW 
FAMILY-CEN TERED APPROACH TO. 
CHILDBIRTH CHAT LEADS EXPECTANT 
PAREN TS SKILLFULLY THROUGH 
from: 
‘ 
PREGNANCY, 
CHILDBEARING AND. 
PHE FIRST MON VHS OF LIFE— 
AND EXPLAINS HOW TO SURROUND, 
THE EXPERIENCE OF CHILDBIR 
UH 
WITH KINDNESS, DIGNITY AND JOY 
G. P. Putnam’s Sons 
200 Madison Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
by Lester Dessez Hazell 
Pregnancy, Childbirth and the Newborn, 
A Manual for Rural Midwives 
This manual was first published in 1950 to teach women and 
girls in China who had very little education. Since then it 
has been enlarged and adapted to other countries, so that 
it is now also published in Portuguese, Spanish and English. 
Lessons include anatomy, physiology of the female repro- 
ductive organs, the progress and conduct of pregnancy and 
childbirth, and the care of the newborn. 
The illustrations 
and directions will certainly aid anyone interested in a 
home delivery, since the manual is written for rural mid- 
wives without access to modern, sterile hospitals. 
The 
suggestions are practical and economical. 
[Suggested and reviewed by Haru Bekker] 
LEO ELOESSER 
EDITH J, GALT 4xp ISABEL HEMINGWAY 
PREGNANCY. 
CHILDBIRTH AND THE NEWBORN 
A MANE AT BOR RE RTE Ne TLE 
Pregnancy, Childbirth 
and the Newborn, A 
Manual for Rural 
Midwives 
Leo Eloesser, Edith Galt 
and Isabel Hemingway 
1959; 150 pp. 
$1.25 postpaid 
from: 
Ninos Héroes, 139 
México 7, D. F. 
MEXICO 
INTER AMERIO UNG 
tw 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
COMPLICATIONS OF DELIVERY 
Breech Delivery 
In about 3% of all deliveries the breech presents. There is not 
much danger for the mother, but 10% of breech babies die, 
many of them from trouble with breating (asphyxia). 
If 
properly handled the danger is much !ess. 
Conduct. 
If a breech presentation is diagnosed in a first 
pregnancy, get help for the delivery or send the patient to 
a hospital, if possible. 
If the patient has had other babies, or is in active labour, 
do your best to deliver the baby. 
Measures to hasten delivery, such as an enema or having the 
mother walk, should be omitted. 
When the presenting part is in sight do not hurry but let 
the buttocks stretch the perineum slowly. 
Let the mother 
deliver the baby. When the whole body is born, support 
it on your left hand and forearm, using the middle finger 
of your left hand to find the baby’s mouth and make complete 
flexion of the baby’s head. At the same time, press on the 
fundus with the right hand, or ask a helper to do so, and the 
head will be born. Do not pull on the baby at any time. 
My own point of view on home delivery is influenced by the fact — 
that all my experience with it has been positive. Babies born at 
home seem better to me in every respect, and my students who 
- 
have had both home and hospital deliveries prefer home. These 
babies are born crying and healthy, and with their mothers they 
continue in the peteee of life they have been living the last nine 
months. 
e 
What a mother eats has a profound effect on the outcome of her 
pregnancy and on her baby’s start in life. A number of very 
convincing studies tie complications of pregnancy to a poor- 
quality diet. Not only do many minor annoyances of pregnancy 
vanish when ample amounts of necessary elements are added to 
the diet, but the baby is basically affected as well. One study 
found that 94 percent of babies born to mothers whose diet was 
excellent were perfect specimens, whereas 92 percent of babies 
whose mothers’ diets were inadequate in as little as one element 
were defective in some way. 
It has been my observation that the 
women who feel on top of the world are usually the ones who take 
good food seriously and concentrate on eating types of food that 
contain the raw material with which to maintain health and manu- 
facture a healthy baby. 
... 
You certainly don't have to become a nutrition expert, however, 
to provide yourself with high-quality food. The trick is to keep 
your eye on how much protein you eat and at the same time to 
see that you get something every day from each of the four major 
food groups: 
1) meat-egg; 2) milk-cheese; 3) vegetable-fru 
it; 
4) bread-cereal. 
!f we want to use a mnemonic device, we can call 
this the P-4 plan: Eat lots of protein in each of the basic four 
every day. 
As soon as the bearing-down reflex is established, second stage is 
begun. For the next few contractions you push your baby down 
two steps, and he slides back one. This.can be discouraging if 
you don’t realize that this is the normal pattern of labor. However, 
when you stop to think about it, this makes good sense. 
In this 
way your passages are dilated gently and slowly by-the plunger 
action of the baby, the baby has fluid squeezed from his lungs, his 
skin is stimulated preparatory to his existence in a world that will 
be constantly touching him, and then during the interval between 
contractions everyone rests. 
Birth Control Handbook 
Fantastic. 
Definitive, thorough, heads-up, loving 
treatment of the whole birth control picture. 
A book by the future for the future. 
There’s 
nothing in the past like it. 
Birth Control Handbook 
McGill Students’ Society 
1968, 1969; 46 pp. 
individual copies free 
plus postage (10¢), 
So it is providential that while the baby is nursing vigorously in the : 
What does the Benen 
Rewer 
reflex feel like 
ienced this to some degree. It is very like the pushing 
movement, only more sustained and more demanding. 
not to push when one is having a bowel movement than wh 
is having a baby. However, the second-stage contractions ar 
arule, painful. 
In fact, they are very satisfying. You may. be 
prised at the noises you make. So may your family. 
The first milk that flows is the high-protein, nonfat type. | This. 
fairly gushes into the baby’s mouth. 
Later when the flow is slow: 
comes the cream. The cream sticks to the baby’s ribs because 
it 
digests more slowly than the nonfat milk. 
It is also more filling. 3 
first flush of hunger, he does not get his high-calorie dessert. E tré 
before ice cream is a habit formed early! 
sees 
Thus a baby knows best how to regulate how long he should 
nur: 
He does this according to the needs of his stomach as well as fo 
the joy of cuddling with his mother. 
eee 
The let-down of the milk is a conditioned reflex. 
In the early day: 
of nursing the milk flows frequently at only the thought of the 
baby or even the cry of someone else’s baby. Later this becomes ae 
conditioned to the particular baby’s sucking. Hence the working eo 
mother can go all day long and not feed her baby, and her breasts 
will remain flat and comfortable. 
As soon as her baby Bon a fe 
sucks, the milk flows in any quantity he needs. 
ray 
dy 
We know that gross brain damage rises in direct proportion to th 
amount of analgesic medication given to the mother during her 
— 
labor. The baby of an anesthetized and dopey mother will have” 
been subjected to the same or greater degree (relative to body 
size) of anesthesia and dopiness at a time when he needs to breaths 
well and when his circulation should be operating at peak effic 
Yet the educated laboring woman finds that at every turn she | 
mu 
defend her position that she doesn’t need analgesic medication as 
one attendant after another presses her to accept such nostrum 
She may even have to apologize for not wanting to take medi 
which she knows could jeopardize her baby. 
from: 
Students’ Society of McGill University 
3480 McTavish Street 
Montreal, Quebec 
CANADA 
= 
longer the sole source of her sexual and social identity. Once “‘out 
as 
The diaphragm should not be inserted more than 2 hours before 
Hy 
coitus. Also, since it takes up to 6 hours for the spermicidal 
ss 
preparation on the rubber dome to destroy sperm, the diaphragm 
ss 
must not be removed until six hours after the last ejaculation. 
- 
diminished. 
se 
The diaphragm may be left in place for as long as 24 hours 
ss 
after which it should be removed and washed with soap and 
cs 
water. 
os 
e 
as 
Although there is much disagreement among doctors as to which is 
HH 
the best |UD available, it seems that the Lippes loop (size D, a 
se 
little more than 1 inch in diameter) is the best one. The Lippes 
ss 
loop is preferred because it has lower expulsion and pregnancy + 
= 
rates, and fewer side effects. Other advantages of the loop, 
os 
which it shares with such devices as the Marguiles coil include: , 
Lippes Loop 
ss 
the ease of insertion and removal, and a nylon appendage 
as 
which allows the woman to check for the |UDs presence. 
ae 
Although sufficient research has not been done, it appears 
ss 
that effectiveness and acceptability of the Saf-t-coil are 
ss 
similar to those of the loop. 
oo 
e 
an 
There has not been a single case reported in which an IUD 
© 
Sauer 
oe 
caused cancer. 
|UDs are not the cause of any kind of cancer. 
as wo seen 
Conception control necessarily carries liberating potential for women. 
e 
A woman may safely engage in pleasurable sexual relations without 
automatically submitting to the humiliating protective-dependent 
relationship with a man which is ordinarily imposed. Also, a woman 
now has the option of bearing and socializing children—it is no 
se 
of the kitchen” a woman can begin to use her mind and body 
Hy 
towards socially productive ends by joining labor forces and 
ss 
professions on a level of equality with men. 
ss 
e@ 
ies eae 
os 
Condoms can be bought from a drug store without a prescription. 
The aerosol foam (used with an applicator) is a recent eat ono 
ss 
The most: common retail price for a good brand is about 3 for 
the cream method. 
It works on the same principle as the jel o 
=: 
$1.25 although the price varies considerably, especially with 
cream alone, except that the agent is packaged in a contai 
ss 
lubricated and skin condoms. 
under pressure and is extruded as a foam into the applicato: 
os 
It is common practice to keep a condom in a wallet or pocket 
the latter is pressed against the container. The foam has spe 
ca 
until it is needed. This is a serious mistake. The combination 
qualities that make it particularly acceptable. A smaller amot 
= —_ of moisture and heat provided by contact with the body leads 
_ 
by weight is delivered, so women complain tess of messiness; cos t 
se 
to deterioration of the condom. The sheath should never be 
per application is reduced; and furthermore, the vehicle (or 
ss 
kept in a wallet or pocket for any length of time; it is best to 
non-reactive base) has characteristics similar to those of a ae 
as 
leave condoms in the small cardboard containers in which they 
“vanishing cream’’, so that leakage from the vagina after coitus 
a 
are usually sold. Kept this way, without excessive heat or 
~« 
is greatly reduced. 
ae 
ae 
moisture, condoms can be stored for several months. 
e 
=: 
Tip’ condoms, or condom caps, which fit only around the 
The most common method of male sterilization, an ope 
ss 
glans of the penis should never be used, since they are likely 
known as a vasectomy, has no effects ona man’s sexual d 
ss 
to slip off after orgasm. 
or virility, except perhaps to enhance it by relieving him f 
FH 
Fi 
: 
fears of having another child. The operation involves 5 
SEV 
ss 
the vas deferens thereby preventing the passage of sperm 
the testicles to the penis. Sinée the contribution of the te es 
accounts for only about 1/10 of the volume of the total 
ulate, the actual quantity of eae s ech is not appreciab' 
Marguiles Coil 
