eve. 
“The ene to Man 
I'll be damned. 
| thought this was another yessir-things-are- 
changing technological social treatise thing. No such. It’s 
a manual of strategies for changing the world, if you have a 
mind to do that. Not heavy stuff about what is terrible 
or what should happen, but how to remake /ife and stay 
_ alive in the process. Strategies like mu/tiple working 
hypotheses so you don’t get infatuated with your first idea. 
Like seed operations where one phone call makes the whole 
thing happen. Like self-stabilizing provisions so a process 
is safe from its own too-quick successes, 
[Suggested by Steve Baer] 
The Step 
to Man 
John R. 
Platt 
1966; 216 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid 
from: 
John Wiley and Sons Publishing Co. 
1 Wiley Drive 
Somerset, N. J. 08873 
Western Distribution: 
1530 South Redwood Road 
Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Strong inference consists of applying the following steps to every 
problem in science, formally and explicitly and regularly: 
(1) devising alternative hypotheses; 
(2) devising a crucial experiment ( or several of them), with 
alternative possible outcomes, each of which will, as nearly as 
possible, exclude one or more of the hypotheses; 
(3) carrying out the experiment so as to get a clean result; 
and 
(1') recycling the procedure, making subhypotheses or sequen- 
tial hypotheses to refine the possibilities that remain; and so on. 
The main reason why our solution of social problems lags so far 
behind our magnificent technology today may be that we have not 
yet Organized the same deliberate search for ideas to deal with them. 
Privacy-indeterminacy is the result of the fact that the nervous system 
greatly amplifies the tiny light signals or other signals that it detects. 
Sescescescesescsenduces 
Besoaneenssoncneseseess 
The Unexpected Universe 
Loren Eiseley celebrates our grandest ignorances, the places 
in human experience where if you stare into them, the 
void stares back. City dumps; the open end of evolution; 
the unexplored continent in your mind, stars; a Pharaoh’s 
dead gesture; edges of oceans. Strong useful prose from 
an old guy who knows something clear and bleak about 
regeneration. 
The Unexpected Universe 
Loren Eiseley 
1969; 239 pp. 
$5.75 postpaid 
from: 
Harcourt, Brace & World, Inc. 
757 Third Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10017 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
In the end the sea rejects its offspring. They cannot fight their way 
home through the surf which casts them repeatedly back upon the 
shore. The tiny breathing pores of starfish are stuffed with sand. 
The rising sun shrivels the mucilaginous bodies of the unprotected. 
The seabeach and its endless war are soundless. Nothing screams but 
the gulls. ... 
. The sun behind me was pressing upward at the horizon’s rim—— 
an ominous red glare amidst the tumbling blackness of the clouds. 
Ahead of me, over the projecting point, a gigantic rainbow of 
incredible perfection had sprung shimmering into existence. Some- 
where toward its foot | discerned a human figure standing, as it 
seemed to me, within the rainbow, though unconscious of his 
position. He was gazing fixedly at something in the sand. 
12 
Could it be that there is in cultural dynamics a great need for real 
physical fuel——say, in the old days, the supply of timber that built 
the houses and ships and chariots, and fed the evening fires for 
poetry and analysis?. There is some evidence in this direction. The 
Greeks had mighty pines where only olives grow today; the early 
Roman legends were forest legends; the old Chinese scrolls show 
densely wooded landscapes where barren hills are now; the early 
Egyptian tomb paintings show the kings hunting in forests. And in 
the last stages of all these cultures, conservation measures for the 
remaining woodland rise high on the list of laws. 
| suspect that at any given time the boundary of a culture where 
negative feedback set in was determined to a considerable degree 
by technical considerations, and was where the marginal expense 
of further expansion against hostile nature or man became too great 
for the energy and construction supply and the associated organi- 
zational technology developed up to that time; and that decadence 
and retreat may have set in as much because of the dwindling of 
physical energy supply at the center as because of social factors. 
Various personal incentive feedbacks to help solve the population 
problem have been put forward, but they are often of exactly the 
wrong kind. 
In India, some districts now pay men to be sterilized, 
but this is both hopelessly inadequate and has the worst of effects 
on individual psychology and public opinion. The same is true of 
the suggestion of taxing parents for ‘‘excess’’ children, which is a 
suggestion sometimes heard in the United States. 
But if we turn the problem around and think of giving a bonus of 
One or two hundred dollars a year every year that a couple, of 
child-bearing age, does not have an additional child, this would be 
mathematically equivalent in total economic terms, but would be 
psychologically much more satisfactory and compelling. 
National 
and local governments and school districts would soon find the 
payment of such bonuses far cheaper than the cost of added schools 
and roads and city services would have been for each additional 
child. 
If the parents are saving society money, why not pay them 
part of it? This puts the cash benefits of reduced population in 
the right columns on the books. 
The Jew said, ‘‘God must be very intelligent because he has created 
all these wonderful things-—DNA molecules and fish and professors.’ 
The atheist said, ‘“Nonsense. God is very stupid. 
In the first place, 
it has taken him six billion years. And in the second place, he has 
done it by the clumsiest possible method, natural selection, just 
throwing away everything he couldn't use.” 
The Hungarian said, ‘‘'Gentlemen, gentlemen! You don’t understand 
your own question. What 1!.Q. stands for is Intelligence Quotient. 
And a quotient is the ratio of two numbers. 
In this case, it is the 
ratio of the mental age to the geological age. Now God is almost 
infinitely wise, but he is also almost infinitely old: and the ratio 
of these two infinities may be a small finite number!”’ 
it was so transparent that we all fell to laughing and burst out 
together, ‘‘“—You mean, about the same as the !.Q. of a smart 
Hungarian!” 
The thermodynamics of the solar system, and our prediction of 
what may happen in it, is incomplete if it does not provide for the 
evolution of intelligent men, including Hungarians. 
Eventually he stooped and flung the object beyond the breaking 
surf. 
| labored toward him over a half mile of uncertain footing. 
By the time | reached him the rainbow had receded ahead of us, 
but something of its color still ran hastily in many changing 
lights across his features. He was starting to kneel again. 
Ina pool of sand and silt a starfish had thrust its arms up stiffly 
and was holding its body away from the stifling mud. 
“It's still alive,” | ventured. 
“Yes,"’ he said, and with a quick yet gentle movement he picked 
up the star and spun it over my head and far out into the sea. 
It sank in a burst of spume, and the waters roared once more. 
“It may live,”’ he said, “if the offshore pull is strong enough.” He 
spoke gently, and across his bronzed worn face the light still came 
and went in subtly altering colors. 
“There are not many.come this far,” 
embarrassment for words. 
“Only like this,” he said softly, gestu ring amidst the wreckage of 
the shore. ‘’And only for the living.’’ He stooped again, oblivious 
of my curiosity, and skipped another star neatly across the water. 
“The stars,’ 
. It is as if at our backs, masked and demonic, moved the trick- 
ster as | have seen his role performed among the remnant 
of a 
savage people long ago. 
|t was that of the jokester present at 
the most devout of ceremonies. This creature never laughed; he 
never made a sound. Painted in black, he followed silently behind 
the officiating priest, mimicking, with the added flourish of a 
little whip, the gestures of the devout one. His timed and stylized 
posturings conveyed a derision infinitely more formidable than 
actual laughter. 
| said, groping in a sudden 
“Do you collect?” 
"he said, “‘throw well. One can help them” 
We had been safe in the enchanted forest only because of our 
weakness. When the powers of that gloomy region were given to 
us, immediately, as in a witch's house, things began to fly about 
unbidden. The toois, if not science itself, were linked intangibly 
to the subconscious poltergeist aspect of man’s nature. The closer 
man and the natural world drew together, the more erratic became 
the behavior of each. Huge shadows leaped triumphantly after 
every blinding illumination. 
It was a magnified but clearly 
recognizable version of the black trickster’s antics behind the 
solemn backs of the priesttiood. Here, there was one difference. 
The shadows had passed out of all human semblance; no societal 
ritual safely contained their posturings, as in the warning dance 
of the trickster. 
Instead, unseen by many because it was so 
gigantically real, the multiplied darkness Seroepaned to submerge 
the carriers of the 
event 
~so that we find ourselves shedding shoes and garments, or sc 
oe they had come to be called successes. This i 
_ which men call evolution. 
| think we may now be in the time of the most rapid change 
| 
whole evolution of the human race, either past or to come. 
kind of cultural “shock-front,” like the shock-fronts that 
aerodynamics when the leading edge of an airplane wing 
mo\ 
faster than the speed of sound and generates the sharp pressure 
wave that causes the well-known sonic boom. 
In many ways, it is like a child learning to ride a bicyilles “The 
were, up until that day, riding on the three-wheeler where. ou 
couldn’ t hurt yourself very much. 
But then you get the two- 
wheeler, and it seems terribly scary, and perhaps you fall and 
skin 
a knee or an elbow. But you get up again, and your father holds | 
the handlebars running along beside you, and suddenly you are 
— 
riding alone. At one instant you are incompetent, falling to on 
side or the other and steering wrong, and the next instant it | 
comes right and you are in control, safe and balanced not 
becau 
you are fearful and slow but because you are going faster thar 4 
ever. Wobbling and weaving but nevertheless choosing your own : 
path and balancing safely at every turn. So, | think, in 30 or 
years, if we survive, the human race will come through this time 
_ 
of wobbling conflict and uncertainty and falling, and will 
2 
suddenly be riding in its own chosen direction, free, as only ay, 
coordinated and confident organism can be. 
Beware of the man of one method or one instrument, eithet 
experimental or theoretical. He tends to become method 
oriented rather than problem-oriented. The method-orient 
man is shackled; the problem-oriented man is at least reac Me 
freely toward what is most important. Strong inference 
redirects a man to problem-orientation, but it requires him 
to be willing repeatedly to put aside his last methods ane teach 
himself new ones. 
must be anticipated and turned into present and individua goo 3 
into a reward for every step that is taken in the right directi 
analysis of chain-reacting social processes that will enable u: 
choose the best course and will indicate the most effective 
for our intelligence to multiply its feeble energies. The futur 
is waiting to respond to a touch, if it is the right touch. 
It is 
; 
ingenuity we need, not lamentations. The world’s future becom 
almost plastic in the light of these possibilities, 
e 
¥ 
We begin to realize that our brains are the most complex and 
self-determining things in the known universe. After all the — 
measurements of atoms and galaxies are folded into laws in so 
corner of our networks, there will still be universes of interrelatio 
ships in the rest of our networks to be discovered. 
If this prop' 
of complexity could somehow be transformed into visible 
brightness so that it would stand forth more clearly to our s 
the biological world would become a walking field of light 
compared to the physical world. The sun with its great erupti 
would fade to a pale simplicity compared to 
arosebush. An — 
earthworm would be a beacon, a dog would be a city of light 
and human beings would stand out like blazing suns of comp le 
flashing bursts of meaning to each other through the dull mioF t 
of the physical world between. We would hurt each other’ 
eyes. Look at the haloed heads of your rare and complex 
companions. 
Is it not so? 
: 
; 
It looked out upon what | can only call itself. 
It searched the sk 
and it searched the depths of being. In the shape of man ith 
ascended like a vaporous emanation from the depths of night. 
The nothing had miraculously gazed upon the nothing and was 
not content. 
It was an intrusion into, or a projection out of, nat 
for which no precedent existed. The act was, in short, an assertiot 
of value arisen from the domain of absolute zero. A little whit 
ey 
| picked up a star whose tube feet ventured timidly among m 
fingers while, like a true star, it cried soundlessly for life. | saw 
myself as forfeit, for the first time, into some unknown dime 
of existence. 
Around me in the gloom dark shapes worked ceaselesae at tl 
dampened fires. My eyes were growing accustomed to their 
“We get it all," the dump philosopher repeated. “‘Just give it ; 
time to travel, we get it all.’ 
e 
re 
eM ; 
Men, unknowingly, and whether for good or ill, appear to ber 
mi 
their last decisions about human destiny. To pursue the biolog 
analogy, it is as though, instead of many adaptive organisms, 
single gigantic animal embodied the only organic future of th 
world. 
Every time we walk along a beach some ancient urge dis urbs 
t 
among seaweed and whitened timbers like the home: 
of a long war. 
: 
