ay 
lime tree, Bonin: linaria and linden. 
Virtually any 
: question you'd like to ask a master gardener is anticipated 
__and answered here, and beyond that, a lot of questions 
that wouldn’t have occurred to you are asked on your 
_ behalf and then answered. 
You wind up with a lot of 
accidental knowledge, browsing in this volume, and that’s 
_ always fun and frequently immediately useful. | can best 
_sum up my feelings about the Encyclopedia by simply 
3 q52ving that after three seasons as a gardener, |’m about 
to buy a copy, instead of borrowing any more, out of 
i impulse to acquire literature on gardening to match my 
own level of competence and curiosity. 
/f you were to chart a course from Grow Your Own, through 
you’d wind up, of course, in Ruth Stout’s garden watching 
her ignore practically everything you just learned from all 
those books as she grows stuff twice as good and ten times 
as easily as you do. Well, not really ignoring it. Just seeming 
to, in the same way that your grandmother ignores the 
printed recipe as she sort of unconsciously mixes a lot of 
stuff together and throws it in a coal stove oven to make the 
_ best Sunday dinner you ever sat down to. Ruth Stout is a 
master gardener who’s been refining her procedures for 
decades now. She’s sort of like an elderly Zen priest, an old 
roshi who after years of work and study has distilled a large 
burden of “knowledge” 
into a single gem of wisdom which 
_ he renders in a single haiku. Just at the point that | felt 
like | was really catching on to making compost and feeling 
kind of proud, | found out that Mrs. Stout doesn’t foo! 
_ with compost anymore. 
Too much trouble. Doesn't fool 
with tools much either. Doesn’t fool with anything much, 
_ actually, except mulch. Just spreads a lot of hay around, 
plants by poking a hole in the ground with her finger, and 
when it is time, goes out and picks the produce and eats 
it. I’m confident that if | were to do everything in my 
_ garden that she does in hers, mine would still fail while 
_ 
hers would flourish, simply because |’m too young and 
_ foolish to get along without some rules. 
|t’s the difference 
_ between wisdom and knowledge, between having correct 
_ information and knowing the truth. 
1‘/l be needing “‘the 
" facts” for a long time to come, but Mrs. Stout assimilated 
___ all of that long ago. She just... does it, and her accounts 
=: of doing it are among the very best statements on organic 
; gardening that you're likely to come across. 
A The thing to remember about organic gardening is that it’s 
3 a movement, a national energy that since its beginnings 
early in the 1940’s has grown into a force sopotent by 
_ now that it contains serious political implications. 
The 
books | have mentioned are landmark documents. But 
__ more central to organic gardening as a movement is a 
=. monthly magazine published by the same Rodales who 
_ 
brought out the Encyclopedia and How to Grow Vegetables 
4 
_ and Fruits, ca//ed Organic Gardening and Farming. /t has 
: occurred to me that if | were a dictator determined to 
control the national press, Organic Gardening wou/d be 
; the first publication I’d squash, because it is the most 
subversive. 
The whole organic movement is exquisitely 
: 
subversive. 
| believe that organic gardeners are in the 
_ 
forefront of a serious effort to save the world by changing 
; man’s orientation to it, to move away from the collective, 
centrist, super-industrial state, toward a simpler, realer 
one-to-one relationship with the earth itself. Most of the 
current talk about “ecology”’ in America is simply the 
noise that accompanies all fads. It’s obviously doomed to 
go the way of hula-hoops and the fifty-mile hike. 
The 
_ 
thing | like to remember is that even when all the froth 
has blown away, and the rhetoric of pop- ecology has 
; 
- drifted off to join the other forms of pollution in the sky, 
_ the gardeners are going to still be gardening. 
They’re 
going to quietly go on composting and tilling and planting, 
é and then reaping all the good things they have sown. 
[Reviewed by Gurney Norman] 
Soil Test Kit 
A soil test kit enables you to test your garden soil for 
acidity/alkalinity, nitrogen, phosphorus, and potash. A 
test will show what is present and what is lacking. 
There 
_ are test tubes, chemicals, and a color chart to gauge results. 
_ Be sure to ask for “The Organic Supplement” prepared by 
- Organic Gardening magazine in case“... 
you have decided 
to work with Nature’s own methods of fertilization.” Feed 
_ the soil, not the plant. 
Sudbury Soil Test Kit 
Send for descriptive literature 
Kits: $5.95-$39.95 
from: 
Sudbury Laboratory, Inc. 
Sudbury, Mass. 01776 
ee 
Tote Oh eos Bk Ot, ek 
How to Grow Vegetables and Fruits, on into the Encyclopedia, 
‘Doh we e 
fa 
oe 
eo 
\* 
' Grow Your Own 
1 
Jeanie Darlington 
‘ 
1970; 87 pp. 
$1.75 postpaid 
from: 
The Bookworks 
1611 San Pablo Avenue 
Berkeley, CA 94702 
pChemical fertilizers put yout soil'on a speed trip: The normal 
© 
component balance of the soil is disturbed by the availability of 
more plant food than can be accepted. For a short time, every- 
thing that is living in the soil gets pushed way beyond its normal 
rhythm of life and of course the humus stores are depleted. A 
chemically treated soil is almost devoid of soil bacteria and 
earthworms. 
pans form that make it hard for water to penetrate deeply. This 
causes dust storm and erosion problems. 
The structural strength of the soil is lost, and hard- 
A forest is an ideal example of good soil structure. The leaves, 
twigs, and everything else that falls to the ground, act as a mulch 
and gradually decay, leaving a spongy rich layer of humus just 
. 
below the surface. 
It is well balanced in all the nutrients necessary 
to the soil below and to all the living things in it. All the reserves 
are there mainly in an insoluble form, and they are gradually 
released by the action of the weather, the bacteria, the earthworms, 
and all the other micro-organisms in the soil. 
California soil has a high clay content and needs a lot of organic 
matter (leaves, manure, compost) added to it to break it down and 
lighten it up. This helps in the release of soil nutrients and allows 
good root growth. 
Birds are good friends to the organic gardener. 
If you feed them 
seed this winter, they‘ll stick around and eat theip share of bug 
kingdom baddies next summer. 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Flowers 
Of course you can buy seedlings in the nursery and even the super- 
market. 
That's good for hard-to-grow seeds such as petunias. 
But 
seed is cheap and fun. Easy flowers to grow include: 
Sunflowers. 
Harvest the seeds for you and your friends and for 
the birds. 
Strawflowers are fun and they can be dried. 
African daisies, calendula, and California poppies are good for hot 
sunny places. 
* 
An Agricultural Testament 
The first “organic gardener’ | ever ran into was 
aman who ended 
all his sentences ‘’thus saith the Lord.’’ The Lord, it turned out, 
had been in the habit of speaking in a very conversational manner 
to this fellow, and had given him all manner of helpful hints on 
gardening——among other things, a recipe for fertilizer. 
| noticed 
that the Lord’s side of the conversation tended to be most flattering 
to my new acquaintance, and most decidedly threatening to all the 
neighbors——a gang of villains, who were going to die of cancer 
because of such sins as listening to the wrong prophets, and cooking 
with aluminum pots. 
Now | would be the last to deny the possibility that a man might 
receive the word from on high and speak beyond the usual powers 
of his head. 
But | am exceedingly mistrustful of 
aman who depends 
on divine revelation to show him what is obvious about the ground 
under his feet. This man deservedly belongs in ‘the lunatic fringe ‘ 
of a discipline that demands respect and attention not because it 
is far out or esoteric or mystical, but because it makes good sense. 
The principles of organic agriculture are not derived from mystical 
insight or revelation, but are based upon observation. They have 
been established in our part of the world in our time by men who 
were excellent observers, and who were moreover accomplished and 
respectable scientists. The scientific respectability of organic methods 
has been obscured for us both by those wo have insisted upon making 
a cult of the obvious and by the affluence and glamor of technological 
agriculture——the agriculture of chemicals and corporations. 
The pioneer book of organic agriculture in modern times is King's 
Farmers of Forty Centuries, which proposed no innovation, but only 
provided new access to the ancient tradition of organic practice in the 
Orient. 
King was no cultist or food faddist. 
He was a professor of 
agriculture, an eminently practical and observant man, well enough 
trained that he fully understood what he saw, in terms of the history 
and culture of Asia, and in terms of its potential usefulness to the West, 
King’s is one of the most important books | have ever read. 
If it is 
allowed to remain out of print | believe that will be a tragedy anda 
great loss, for it can provide indispensable insights into the causes and 
the possible remedies of our environmental crisis. 
King’s most famous reader and follower was probably Sir Albert 
Howard, who in thirty years of research and experimentation 
established scientifcally the soundness of the ancient methods. 
Howard's An Agricultural Testament is another extremely important 
book. Howard's work is based upon the premise that good agricul- 
tural practice is based upon the observation and the use of natural 
processes. 
King’s book, Howard thought, demonstrated that an 
agriculture based upon natural processes could thrive for an unlimited 
time, whereas an agriculture that contradicts or ignores natural 
processes can only exhaust the land, and in its failure assures the 
failure of the society. 
1S Ganinqe tew eneoes 
i 
PLAT 
FORM 
PLATFORM 
SECTION. 
wee Omed 
mw Ctmeny 
son HN 
Mamroncee 
& gf 
aves 
dimen OF or 
BRICK on eost 
ence FLAT 
Derans 
of Rim 
Derans op Cranmer. 
To 
?< 
Se 
— 
€ 
sn” BHGAVATION FER crams 
Sweet Peas. The climbing variety, 5-7 feet, is great for hiding a 
wall or making a screen. 
Use trellis netting. 
Nasturtiums. 
Great for hot, dry, poor soil areas. The leaves, which 
are peppery and high in Vitamin C, taste great in salads or cream 
cheese sandwiches. The flowers are good to eat too, and the green 
seed pods can be pickled in vinegar with a touch of mace, allzpice, 
1 clove and salt. They resemble capers. 
Old Fashioned Garden is a wonderful! surprise packet. 
2 
Howard's thinking proceeds from one cardinal fact: 
‘’The forest 
manures itself.’ 
He later elaborates this observation in an agri- 
cultural metaphor: 
The main characteristic of Nature’s farming can therefore 
be summed up in a few words. Mother earth never attempts 
. to farm without live stock; she always raises mixed crops; 
“great pains are taken to preserve the soil and to prevent erosion; 
the mixed vegetable and animal wastes are converted into humus; 
there is no waste; the processes of growth and the processes of 
decay balance one another; ample provision is made to main- 
tain large reserves of fertility; the greatest care is taken to store 
the rainfall; both plants and animals are left to protect them- 
selves against disease. 
And so the task Howard set himself was first to understand those pro- 
cesses and interrelationships by which the natural world sustains and 
renews itself, and then to work out methods by which people could 
use the land in cooperation with nature. 
He realized——and | think 
it would be hard to overestimate the importance of this——that the 
specialized analytical approach of “‘scientific’’ agriculture was 
creating more problems than it solved: 
Instead of breaking up the subject into fragments and 
studying agriculture in piecemeal fashion by the analytical 
methods of science, appropriate only to the discovery of 
new facts, we must adopt a synthetic approach and look 
at the wheel of life as one great subject and not as if it were 
a patchwork of unrelated things. 
He insisted that quality was a more important evaluative standard 
than quantity. He saw that the soil was more a process than a sub- 
stance, that its life was more important than its analyzable contents, 
that its health was not a matter of inert proportions but a balance of 
live forces, and that therefore “the correct relation between the 
processes of growth and the processes of decay is the first principle 
of successful farming.” 
Howard's discoveries and methods and their implications are given in 
detail in An Agricultural Testament. They are of enormous useful- 
ness to gardéners and farmers, and to anyone else who may be interested 
in the history and the problems of land use. 
But aside from its practical 
worth, Howard's book is valuable for his ability to place his facts and 
insights within the perspectives of history. This book is a critique of 
civilizations, judging them not by their artifacts and victories but by 
their response to ‘’the sacred duty of handing over unimpaired to the 
next generation the heritage of a fertile soil.” 
A matter of considerable interest to me is that, written within the 
context of more knowledge and from the perspective of a more urgent 
time, An Agricultural Testament can be read as a confirmation and elab- 
oration of Jefferson's belief in the supreme importance of the small 
farmer——the man devoted in final terms to his own piece of his 
homeland, who makes of the life of the land a human way of life. 
{Reviewed by Wendell Berry] 
AN 
| An Agricultural Testament 
AGRICULTURAL 
} Sir Albert Howard 
1940; 253 pp. 
TESTAMENT 
@ 
$4. 00 postpaid 
G 
AS 
- 
Oxford University Press 
200 Madison Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
Section. 
SIR ALBERT HOWARD 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
LOOEE corte Brien oF 
ARRATION CHASMEL. 
$3.00 from Blackwell's (see p. 79) 
33 
2° ROL oF L008 
Plan and working details of composting pits at Tollygunge, Calcutta. 
|
|
|
