DUPRE 
a! 
yc 
SP 
and it’s better at it than anyone. Funky and alive and 
intelligent and youthful——and probably thrifty, brave 
This Magazine is about Schools 
and reverent. 
Frontier cream. 
1. 
N 
w 
5. 
This Magazine is about Schools 
$3.50 /year (4 issues) 
from: 
This Magazine is about Schools 
56 Esplanade Street East, Suite 301 
Toronto 215, Ontario, CANADA 
Photo: Tamio Wakayama| 
HOW TO HARDEN YOUR SOFT SCHOOL 
ESTABLISH A SYSTEM FOR SUPPLYING THE 
SCHOOL WITH MATERIALS. On several 
occasions I have walked into a free school and 
been bitterly disappointed by the lack of materials. 
No school dedicated to making a decent mess 
should open its doors before it has obtained two 
truck loads, say 5 tons, of begged, borrowed and 
stolen information in the shape of string, glue, 
magnets, records, magazines, books, paints, test-tubes, 
chemicals, transistors, advertisements, felt pens, 
catalogues, newspapers, fossils, rocks, microscopes, 
herbs, wire, acetate, slide-rules, typewriters, tapes, 
film stock, stuffed owls, old pieces of machinery, 
cloth, thread, animals, bones, fishing flies, 
photographs, paintings, slides and films. 
Treat 
information like water from a tap. 
PUT YOUR FINANCES UPON A SOUND 
FOOTING. 
ORGANIZE A FEW BOOKS. 
Wade into the sea of 
information, clear a few shelves, and arrange thirty 
reference books in alphabetical order. Stick 
numbers on their spines, stamp them NOT TO BE 
REMOVED and chain them to the shelf. While you 
are in the mood, padlock a few doors and windows. 
MAKE A HARD ROOM. Set aside at least one 
room to represent the organized side of life. If you 
can afford it, build a laboratory with identical 
stools, gas taps, electrical outlets and small sinks 
for washing retorts. Have a ten-week course in the 
laboratory for which interested students have to 
sign in advance and attend at regular times. If you 
have no science teacher, immediately appoint a 
meticulous chemist. 
STOP CHOOSING NEW STUDENTS to fit the 
community. 
The next person whom you choose 
should be unlike anyone else you've ever had 
before. 
THIS MAGAZIN 
bout 
SCHOOLS 
DREAMING in the BEDS of ACADEME: 
“he Rochdale Experience by SARAH SPINKS 
95 cents 
“The Risk of Being a Social Scientist in 
Canada Is that One May Die Laughing.” 
The Coach House represents what Rochdale was striving 
for. 
It moved into an old garage in a back lane behind the 
building, with the first floor housing all the old wooden 
trays of small metal types and a different assortment of 
presses. 
In the centre is a designing area with layout desks, 
plastic triangles and paraphernalia. The ceiling is low, 
the walls are painted in bright colours and all over are 
posters, poems and postcards, some dug up and copied 
from old art books at the Central Library. Long-haired, 
bespectacled Rochdalers walk around, setting type, making 
plates——with a sense of order and neatness that defies 
the categorization of sloppy hippies. There is a quiet 
deference to Stan Bevington, the man who started the 
Press. He wanders about in his blue denim smock, and 
usually answers questions with ‘Well, try it. What do 
you think will happen?”’ Or he'll startle you by suddenly 
looking at the tube of ink you’re using and the paper * 
you're about to print on, saying, “The acid content of 
that paper is much too high. We've been given a bum lot 
of paper.’’ And sure enough a week later, the load of 
paper will come back from Domtar or some other company 
- 
with profuse apologies. 
HOW TO SOFTEN YOUR HARD SCHOOL 
_ 
USE THE CORRIDORS. Sell the steel lockers for 
scrap and use the money to buy cushions. Scatter 
the cushions around the corridors and let the 
students lie around on the floor. Have the floor 
cleaned very seldom but leave brooms about. 
~ 
2. TAKE ALL THE AV EQUIPMENT OUT OF THE 
STOREROOM AND PUT IT IN THE CORRIDORS. 
Let the students use it when they feel the need for 
it. Let them break projectors, tape-recorders and 
viewers. Let them take machines home, steal tapes. 
3. HIRE A XEROX MACHINE AND PUT 
IT IN THE 
CORRIDOR. Place no restrictions whatever upon 
its use. Find a kid willing to keep it running. Put 
a thermofax copier in the corridor too. 
With a 
mountain of paper and acetate. 
4. OPEN UP THE LIBRARY. 
Take the doors off 
their hinges. Roll up the carpet and sell it. Let the 
students cut up the books with scissors. Provide 
Scissors, paste, paper. 
With the money provided by 
the sale of the carpet, buy: 
a. A bucket full of magazines. 
b. A bucket full of comics. 
c. A bucket full of newspapers. 
d. Several incomprehensible thick medical tomes. 
Try McAinsh, Toronto. 
e. A number of books in Chinese, Japanese, 
Sanskrit and other languages. 
f. A barrow-load of old books from the Old 
Favorites Bookstore, Toronto. 
g. Photographs, maps, geological maps, plans. 
blueprints, research papers. 
Going from the 
sunsbine into the 
shade during a 
forest run, is like 
leaving a few 
words of twigs, 
and entering an 
eucalyptus lullaby. 
* 
Start Your Own School 
Sure enough, a lot of the nuts and bolts information is here, 
turning an impossibility into a mere nuisance. So you can 
Start Your Own School 
Donation (if possible) 
$1.00 
transfer your attention to the more important impossibility, 
education. 
from: 
New Directions Community School 
445 Tenth Street 
Richmond, CA 94801 
—Records. 
\t would be a good idea to keep a record for each employee 
of taxes and stuff for each paycheck. Something like this: 
a page for 
each employee with columns for: Name; Soc. Sec. No; exemptions 
claimed; pay period; basic pay; Fed. Income tax withheld; FICA with- 
held; State disability withheld; Net pay . 
. .; FICA paid by school; 
State Unemployment paid by school, 
It might be good to keep a 
running total of “‘money owed to governments’. 
Once the first flurry of forms is over, it's not so bad, really. Don’t 
panic, and call the |RS office for the smallest reason. They have 
nothing better to do. 
We just wanted to work with some kids. 
Teaching As a Subversive Activitv 
You may have noticed that schools are society’s goat just 
now, and the blame machine revs on and on. The authors of 
this handy de-crisis book take a nice clean no-blame 
revolutionary approach to things: what works this minute 
and doesn’t work this minute. 
In their experience (high- 
school), instruction in authoritative subject matter doesn of 
work very well. What does work is an experience-based 
inquiry approach to learning to learn and learning to 
selectively un-learn: 
i.e. basic survival strategy in an 
-environment of change. What's nice is they aren’t just 
threatening: they have gathered and published a strong 
collection of technique. 
Teaching 
as a Subversive Activity 
Neil Postman and Charles Weingartner 
1969; 219 pp. 
E 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
Delacorte Press 
750 Third Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10017 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The new education, in sum, is new because it consists of having 
students use the concepts most appropriate to the world in which 
we all must live. All of these concepts constitute the dynamics 
of the questing-questioning, meaning-making process that can 
be called “learning how to learn”. This comprises a posture of 
stability from which to deal fruitfully with change. The purpose 
is to help all students develop built-in, shockproof crap detectors 
~ as basic equipment in their survival kits. 
What we confront, at this juncture, is a most difficult problem in 
education: 
helping students to unlearn much of what they “know.” 
Josh Billings said it almost a century ago: ‘The trouble ain’t that 
people are ignorant; it’s that they ‘know’ so much that ain’t so.”” 
What are some of the things these students know that ‘‘ain’t so?” 
Well, for example, they “know” that 1) the more “content” a person 
“‘knows,” the better teacher he is; 2) that “content” is best “imparted” 
via a “course of study’; 3) that “content” is best kept “pure” by 
departmentalizing instruction; 4) that “‘content” or “subject matter’ 
has’a ‘‘logical structure” or ‘logical sequence” that dictates how the 
“‘content’’ should be “imparted”; 5) that bigger schools are better 
than smaller schools; 6) that smaller classes are better than bigger 
classes; 7) that “‘homogeneous grouping”’ (with students ‘’grouped” 
on the basis of some real or fancied similarity) makes the learning 
of subjects more efficient; 8) that classes must be held for “periods” 
of about an hour in length, five days a week, for about 15 weeks in 
order for a ‘’course”’ in a ‘subject’ to happen. 
|t comes as a shock to the students that there is no evidence to sup- 
port any of these contentions. On the contrary, there is massive 
evidence to confute them. It takes some doing, however, to help 
students to recognize the fact that most of their deeply internalized 
assumptions about “‘education’’ are based on misinformation rather 
than information 
The teacher rarely tells students what he thinks they ought to know. 
His basic mode of discourse with students is questioning. 
Generaliy, ne does not accept a single statement as an answer to a 
question. 
He encourages student-student interaction as opposed to student- 
ee 
teacher interaction. And generally he avoids acting as a mediator or 
Soy 
judge of the quality of ideas expressed. 
He rarely summarizes the positions taken by students on the learnings 
that occur. 
His lessons develop from the response of students and not from a 
previously determined “logical” structure. 
Generally, each of his lessons poses a problem for students. 
He'measures his success in terms of behavioral changes in students. 
New Schools Exchange 
A much needed service, the New Schools Exchange functions 
as an access switchboard for individuals and organizations 
trying alternatives to the big gray schoolhouse. 
The Exchange 
publishes a directory of all the new schools and educational 
reform groups, and they put out a weekly newsletter 
describing new school attempts (8-10 a week). 
— 
New Schools Exchange 
Harvey Haber, Cass Sperling, eds. 
$10 /year; $5/5 months minimum. 
trom: 
New Schools Exchange 
2940 Hidden Valley Lane 
Santa Barbara, CA 93193 
et) 
The instructor brought to class a black attaché case. He told the. 
students that inside the case there was a small computer which w 
capable of producing the answer to any question anyone ; 
‘What questions,’ he asked, ‘do you want it to answer?” 
e 
Perhaps you have noticed that most examinations and, indee 
and curricula deal almost exclusively with the past. The future ha 
exists in school. Can you remember ever asking or being asked 
school a question like “If such and such occurs, what do you thi: 
will happen?’’? A question of this type is usually, not regarded 
“serious” and would rarely play acentral role in any “serious” 
examination. When a future-oriented question is introduced 
school, its purpose is usually to “motivate” or to find out how 
“creative” the students can be. But the point is that the world | 
in is changing so rapidly that a future-oriehtation is essential for 
everybody. 
Its development in schools is our best insurance agaii 
generation of ‘future shock” sufferers. 
a 
[Suggested by Jim Fadiman] 
