i 
Did you know that sweater sizes aren’t standard? | didn’t. 
___ 
for a beginner in an easy to understand style. 
_ 
quarterly publication, Threads in Action, a technical publi- 
Gertrude Taylor tells you how to choose your correct size 
by glancing through the pattern direction: Add the no. of 
stitches 
in the complete bust line and divide by the stitch 
gauge. 
This will give you the correct size. Be warned to 
add 3 inches to your actual measurement for ease. 
America’s Knitting Book contains all the information needed 
“Do not hold needles like a pencil. Perch up on tup of the 
needles.” How many people quit before starting because it 
was too hard to hold needles like a pencil? 
The instructions are good and the graphics don’t look like 
7940. There is also lots of stuff that’s far too advanced for 
me to really comment on except to say that | felt that | 
could do it with the instructions given. 
[Reviewed by Lois Brand. Suggested by Ann Hresko] 
America’s Knitting Book 
Gertrude Taylor 
1968; 288 pp. 
$9. 95 postpaid 
from: 
_ Charles Scribner’s Sons 
Vreeland Avenue 
Totowa, N. J. 07512 
vos America’s 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Knitting Book 
@ 
The Improved Horizontal Buttonhole 
Starting at the front edge, work two stitches (or whatever your 
pattern calls for), bind off the next four stitches (or whatever 
your pattern calls for). Work to the end of the row. On the next 
row, work until you come to the hole, then turn your work around 
and “knit on”’ four stitches as in making the regular buttonhole, 
then pick up the front loop of the first bound off stitch and slip 
it onto the needle next to the knit-on stitches. Then turn your 
work around again and work to the end of the row (2 stitches). 
On the following row, work two stitches then knit together the 
“picked-up bound-off stitch’ and the last stitch of the knit on 
stitches. 
wae 
PACK UP FRONT LooP 
AND PUT ob LEFT-HAND 
NEE DLE 
This buttonhole may be used whenever you are working with knotty 
or nubby yarns and cannot plan on hand-finishing the buttonholes. 
lf you are working with smooth yarn, you will be hand-finishing the 
buttonholes, and it is not necessary to use this improved buttonhole. 
Macramé, the Art of Creative Knotting 
Although designs for knotted pieces differ according to 
_ locale and use, there are very few individual knots. 
Virginia 1. Harvey has collected photographs of traditional 
knotted pieces throughout the world and presents them in 
a book called Macramé, the Art of Creative Knotting. She 
carefully diagrams the half-knot, square knot, double half- 
hitch, diagonal double half-hitch, vertical double half- 
hitch and other knots. 
The basic knots are described in 
detailed instructions for making a sampler. Following 
the pattern for the sampler will give the beginner experience 
in doing the knots, and show how combining just a few 
types of knots can offer large pattern variation. 
This book is the best reference manual of knotting technique ? 
available. 
It offers information on all facets of macramé, 
including discussion on planning, mounting, shaping and 
finishing a knotting project. Tools and materials are dis- 
played. There are photos exhibiting how different fibers 
worked in the same pattern can vastly alter visual and 
textural effects. The pictorial history of macramé and 
examples of contemporary knotting projects offer plenty 
of design ideas for more advanced macramé craftsmen. 
Knotters interested in explicit directions for traditional 
macramé purses can obtain patterns by sending $1.10 to: 
Pesch Art Studio, 28 Colonial Parkway, Dumont, N. J. 07628 
with a request for ““Macramé Bags,” Booklet A. 
[Reviewed by Sue Boyle. 
Suggested by Alexandra Jacopetti] 
Virginia |. Harvey, author of Macramé announces the new 
cation on non-loom techniques. Macramé will be the 
principal subject with occasional articles on stitchery, bobbin 
lace, netting, knotless netting, sprang, knitting, crochet, 
and others. 
Subscriptions are $8.50/year 
Virginia |. Harvey 
: from: | 
; 
: 
re Threads in Action 
pepe eet 
30x 468 
$8.50 postpaid from: 
By: and, Washington 98249 
ggest ed 
by Helen Bitan] 
a 
Macramé, The Art of Creative Knotting 
Van Nostrand-Reinhold Co. 
450 West 33rd Street 
New York, N. Y. 10001 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
* 
Successful Sewing 
. Contains a good list of equipment with reasons for having 
each item. 
2. Contains a good chapter on the selection, use and care of 
a sewing machine for you. 
3. Contains a clear explanation of sewing processes general- 
izing whenever possible, and not creating a lot of special 
cases. 
Contains a complete section on fabrics, fibers, and 
finishes including background, use, properties and 
home laundering instructions. 
[Reviewed by Lois Brand] 
Practice sewing straight. 
\f you have never used a sewing machine 
before, it is 
avery good idea to start by sewing practice lines, angles 
- 
and curves. One sewing machine manufacturer, Viking Husqvarna, 
produces practice sheets (domestic science teachers and college lec- 
turers can make block applications for classroom use) and they 
have given me their permission to reproduce two of them here. 
. .. Sew along the lines keeping as accurate as possible. Do not 
watch the needle but keep your eyes on the sewing line. 
If you 
wish you may sew without thread on these practice squares, though 
it is perhaps more encouraging if you do use thread. 
Practice patterns. 
Flat fell seam. 
This is very similar to the welt seam finish but is 
the seam used when you are sewing fine garments such as lingerie 
and baby clothes. 
It is sewn with the wrong sides of the fabric 
facing each other, so that the turnings come on to the right side 
of the garment. Stitch along the normal seam line. Trim one seam 
allowance to % in. Press both seam allowances to one side, with 
the trimmed seam allowance underneath. Turn under the raw 
edge of the other seam allowance about % in. and press. 
Pin, tack 
and stitch down by machine or by hand to conceal all raw edges. 
This is quite a useful seam for fine fabrics with edges which tend to 
fray or curl up unless properly secured. 
* 
Handbook of Stitches 
200 embroidery stitches, with descriptions, diagrams & 
samplers. Compact handbook, good for beginners. 
Handbook of Stitches 
1959, 1966, 1970; 76 pp. 
$3.50 postpaid 
from: 
Van Nostrand-Reinhold 
450 West 33rd Street 
New York, N. Y. 10001 
Dye Plants and Dyeing 
This book | consider about the best that is available on~ 
its subject and would make an excellent basic handbook 
for the beginner. 
It contains historical information as 
well as the basic steps to dyeing, recipes, and articles 
about dye plants from various regions and countries. 
So,no matter what part of the country you live in, 
you will find a variety of plants and recipes which you 
would be able to use. 
There is enough information in this 
book which should enable you to start your own dyeing 
and end up with satisfactory results... which is not true 
of all natural dye books. The.one difficulty in using it, 
however, is that there is no index. 
Dye 
Plants and Dyeing 
100 pp. 
$ 1.25 postpaid 
from: 
Brooklyn Botanic Garden 
Brooklyn, N. Y..11225 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Grete Petersen and Else Svennas 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
[Reviewed by Carole Beadle] 
Successful Sewing: A Modern Guide 
Nesta Hollis 
1969; 206 pp. 
$8.75 postpaid 
from: 
Taplinger Publishing Co., Inc. 
29 East Tenth Street 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
| oF WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
French seam. 
This is the traditional seam for fine, hand-sewn lingerie, 
but whether sewn by hand or by machine, a French seam can also be 
extremely useful for other garments, and especially for fine garments 
for babies and young children, where frequent washing might cause an 
unfinished seam to fray or unravel. 
Like the flat fell seam, the French seam is produced the “wrong way” 
—-—the wrong sides of the fabric are placed together for stitching, so 
that the raw edges appear on the right side of the article. 
i 
Instead of stitching on the seam line, stitch nearer to the raw edges 
of the fabric——say about 3/8 in. from the edge of the fabric. Trim 
the seam allowance slightly; turn article to the wrong side. Fold 
along the stitched seam line so that the right sides of the fabric are 
touching. Press along the fold, and make a line of tacking stitches 
3/8 in. from the fold. Then stitch. No raw edges should be visible 
on the right side of the fabric; nothing looks worse than a French 
seam where strands are trapped in the seam, and there is almost no 
way of getting rid of these untidy ends once the seam has been 
stitched. 
Finally, open and press. 
CUM Yarn Samples 
Though one can stockpile free & usually mediocre 
yarn catalogs, $3 sent to 
CUM brings a large 
binder filled with sample-cards of handweaving 
yarns of finest quality, large color range, yet 
cheaper than dime-store knitting worsted. 
CUM is now set up to handle U.S. orders; their 
catalog/price list is in English, gives price per 
pound in dollars, unlike other European yarn 
houses. Samples include 1 & 2-ply woolen 
yarn, rug, tapestry & knitting yarns, worsted, 
cotton & linen yarns, rug warps, twine. All 
yarns are mothproofed, prices average less 
than $3/b. for yarns of high quality, 
esthetically and structurally. Orders 
answered promptly; delivery time approx. 
6 weeks by ship, less than 2 weeks by air. 
Catalog and Binder of samples 
$3.00 postpaid 
from: 
CUM Textile Industries, Ltd. 
Rémersgade 5 
1362 Copenhagen K 
Denmark 
4 
