° God created man in his own image, in the image of God he 
reated him; male and female he created them. And God blessed 
them, and God said to them, ‘Be fruitful and multiply, and fill 
: the earth and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the 
sea and over the birds of the air and over every living thing that 
moves upon the earth.’ 
Genesis 1, 27-28. 
_ And we have been fruitful, and we have filled the earth and 
subdued it, and we have dominion over every living thing. 
_ And what is subversive about ecology is that we know now 
we must turn aside from that ancient narrow edict, and 
live with, and not upon, the earth. 
The Subversive Science /s thirty-seven essays on the shape 
of life. By its very breadth it creates a depth of truth no 
single point of view could ever make. 
There is a new world 
_ view within this book, a new sense of ourselves and our 
‘«@ position on and within this earth. /t is rigorous and 
e a scientific and yet in its vibrant complexity almost mystic. 
| 
ee 
ee 
[Reviewed 
by Cary James] 
The Subversive Science— 
| a ioe Toward an Ecology 
a 
ie 
vot Mair * 
cette Paul Shepard 
; 
Daniel McKinley, eds. 
1969; 453 pp. 
; = $5.95 postpaid 
igelinesad 
a 
_ Houghton Mifflin Co. 
_ Wayside Road 
Burlington, Mass. 01803 
~ or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
4 
Ree 
Igloos, tepees, prairie sod-huts, hogans, pueblos—have ecology 
_in their roof-lines. 
These shelters for families, like such individual protectors as 
sunbonnets, sombreros, serapis, are oriented to a landscape, 
_to weather, and to local materials. 
The desire to maintain absolute constancy in any system must 
__be recognized as deeply pathological. 
Engineering theory. 
indicates that excessive restraints can produce instability. 
__. 
Inpsychiatry also, the desire for complete certainty is 
recognized as a most destructive compulsion. And in the 
history of nations, attempts to control rigidly all economic 
+ 
variables have uniformly led to chaos. The psychologically 
healthy human recognizes that fluctuations are unavoidable, 
~ 
ss that waste is normal, and that one should institute only such 
explicit controls as are required to keep each system on its 
Bers 
homeostatic plateau. We must devise and use such controls 
- as are needed to keep the social system on the homeostatic 
plateau. On this plateau—but not beyond it—freedom 
_ 
produces stability. 
Sect 
a) 
, 
A 
_.. Challenge for Survival 
This one’s value is that it focuses on the devil himself. 
The city. 
Challenge for Survival 
Pierre Dansereau, Ed. 
1970; 235 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid 
from: 
Columbia University Press 
440 West 110th Street 
New York, N. Y. 10025 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
~ Although there are several ae textbooks of plant ecology, of 
~ animal ocotea- 
, and a few that attempt to cover both and, almost 
abe tie ght, to include man, we do not seem to be ready 
] 
ho ea of the acquisitions of ecology. A formal 
od limited number of /aws, encompassing the facts 
s of 
e poss paper sa! structures and dynamics, is yet 
Lf 
wh 
{(Upper Region 
of Positive | Death 
Feedback) Pg 
Homeostatic/ 
Plateau 
Variable 
Characteristic 
(Region of Negative 
Feedback) 
(Lower Region of 
Death 
Positive Feedback) 
i 
cs 
© 
{—=):0:(-F) 
> 
Stress 
We who were close to the Indians watched the disappearance of 
boys from. public view. 
Even their father saw them no more. 
After 
sometimes a year, sometimes eighteen months, the boys returned— 
from the underground kivas, from the pathless areas of the Sangre 
de Cristo range, from the hidden crag where perhaps burns the 
mystical everlasting fire. Radiant of face, full-rounded and 
powerful of body, modest, detached: 
they were men now, keepers 
of the secrets, houses of the Spirit, reincarnations of the countless” 
generations of their race; with ‘’reconditional reflexes,’ with 
emotions organized toward their community, with a connection 
formed untiLdeath between their individual beings and that 
mythopoeic universe—that cosmic illusion—that real world—as the 
case may be, which both makes man through its dreams and ts 
made by man’s dreams. 
One of the greatest of the technical social inventions of ancient 
Athens was that of ostracism, which was invented by Cleisthenes. 
ty 
We are told: 
Once a year the popular Assembly deliberated on whether any citizen 
should be required to go into exile for ten years on the grounds that 
his presence in Athens was a threat to the constitution. 
If the 
Perhaps the most serious obstacle impeding the 
evolution of a land ethic is the fact that our 
educational and economic system is headed away 
if six thousand citizens wrote the same name on an ostrakon, or 
potsherd, the man named must leave Athens for ten years. 
But he did not lose his citizenship, his goods were not’ 
Assembly voted to hold an ostracism, a second vote was taken. Then, 
from, rather than toward, an intense consciousness 
of land. Your true modern is separated from the 
land by many middlemen, and by innumerable 
physical gadgets. He has no vital-relation to it; 
Big Jesus, there are a lot of ecological anthologies coming out. 
confiscated, he did not even suffer disgrace. 
In fact, it 
was only the man of great ability who was likely to be 
ostracized, yet the possibility of ostracism was a constant 
deterrent to overwhelming political ambition. 
"This is the dog that bit the at that killed the rat that ate the malt that came from the grain that 
Jack sprayed.” (Reproduced by permission of Purch.) 
Long ago, floods were described as Acts of God. Today, these are 
known quite often to be consequences of the acts of man. As long 
ago, droughts were thought to be Acts of God, too, but these, it is 
now known, are exacerbated by the acts of man. 
What will be left of the plant world if we allow the basically village 
culture, founded on aclose symbiotic partnership between man and 
plants, to disappear? For some twelve thousand years, all the higher 
achievements of civilization have rested on this culture, one devoted 
to the constructive improvement of the habitat and the loving care 
of plants——their selection, their nurture, their breeding, their 
enjoyment. That culture, as Edgar Anderson suggested, originally 
made some of its best discoveries in breeding by being equally 
concerned with the color, the odor, the taste, the flower and 
leaf patterns, the sexual functions, and the nutritive qualities of 
plants, valuing them not only for food and medicine, but for 
esthetic delight. There are plenty of people working in scientific 
laboratories today who, though they may still call themselves 
biologists, have no knowledge of this culture, except by vague 
hearsay, and no respect for its achievements. They dream of a 
world composed mainly of synthetics and plastics, in which no 
creatures above the rank of algae or yeasts would be encouraged 
to grow. 
Mere survival is not good enough: we must devise a Strategy to 
. 
ensure the further development of plants and men. 
to him it is the space between cities on which 
crops grow. 
When we think in terms of systerms)‘we see that a fundamental 
misconception is embedded in the popular term ‘side-effects’ 
(as has been pointed out to me by James W. Wiggins). This 
phrase means roughly ‘‘effects which | hadn’t foreseen, or 
don’t want to think about.’' As concerns the basic mechanism, 
side-effects no more deserve the adjective “‘side’’ than does the 
“principal” effect. 
It is hard to think in terms of systems, and 
we eagerly warp Our language to protect ourselves from the 
necessity of doing so. 
Whether you will or not 
You are a King, Tristram, for you are one 
Of the time-tested few that leave the world, 
When they are gone, not the same place it was. 
Mark what you leave. 
* 
Applied World Saving 
For a world-scale journal of ecology, try \ntecol Bulletin 
(S3/yr from Blackwell Scientific Publications Ltd., 
5 Alfred Street, Oxford, OX1 4HB). A recent report 
of what’s happening with the new strains of wheat and 
rice is Seeds of Change (Lester R. Brown, 1970, 205 pp; 
$6.95 from Frederick A. Praeger, 111 Fourth Avenue, 
N.Y., N. Y. 10003). For wilder possibilities in food 
production, see Food Resources Conventional and Novel 
(N. W. Pirie, 1969; 208 pp; $1.25 from Penguin Books, Inc., 
7110 Ambassador Road, Baltimore, Md. 21207). 
* 
Liferaft Earth 
Robert Frank’s 37-minute 16mm color 
sound film of the Hunger Show staged 
last October by Portola Institute may 
be rented for S30 from WHOLE EARTH 
CATALOG. 
“/’m sorry, Leon,” said 
Bonnie Jean, “I’m hungry and I’m 
crazy.” 
