! 
Psychology Today: An Introduction 
~ 
oy 
My god, they’ve done it——and I’m stunned. After spending 
more years than | cafe to remember dealing with this sort of 
subject matter, | expected to skim through this book, and | 
tried——for hour after hour after hour. First off, it’s the 
most fantastic visual presentation I’ve ever encountered in 
a textbook; every page is arresting and imaginative and many 
. 
are clearly and simply beautiful. 
It’s the first time I’ve ever 
seen such consistent remembering that the subject under 
study is that of me and you and our fellows. 
This would 
surely be the book to start with for anyone interested in 
finding-out what psychology is all about. 
There are eight 
major sections, each representing a main branch of the 
field, and each being covered clearly and thoroughly. 
There 
are two companion volumes, the Instructor’s Guide, and 
the student’s workbook, Involvement in Psychology Today. 
The Instructor’s Guide lists appropriate films and suggests 
demonstrations for each section. “Involvement” is designed 
to do just that——the suggested projects are unusual and 
look like fun. There are good bibliographies here too, 
for those interested in pursuing particular subjects further, 
including a lot of wonderful books that didn’t used to be 
considered proper. 
These things about the content especially impress me: 
The 
scientific study of behavior is treated cogently so that 
anyone can learn the basics of scientific methodology. 
And this without the usual accompanying tone that only 
what’s measurable is worth studying, a tone that so pervades 
many textbooks that as an undergraduate | despaired of 
learning anything interesting or meaningful about human 
beings. 
This stuff really turned me on to human behavior 
and the study of it. The sections on drugs and craziness 
are also impressive in that the subjects are tackled head-on; 
there’s no evasiveness and no apparent prejudice. 
There is 
lots of good information and, best of all, a powerful feeling 
conveyed of what it’s all about. 
The authors have clearly attempted to make this book 
super-relevant to today’s world. They have succeeded. 
[Reviewed by Diana Shugart] 
* 
Psychological Exercises 
Orage, who edited “New Age” in the ‘thirties, knew everyone. 
His favorites, like Pound, Gurdjieff and Ouspensky, were 
certainly worth knowing. 
Those were the days when intellec- 
tuals thought they could change the world just by pointing 
out what was right and what was wrong. Hah! Anyway, 
Orage had a secret kick, too, and it was exercising the grey 
matter. For example: 
while reciting “Jack and Jill” write 
down “Mary Had a Little Lamb”. For example: 
while you 
are talking to someone, or reading this, count from 100 to O 
backwards by three’s. 
You'll find that with some practice 
you really can do these things, just like learning to pat your 
stomach while rubbing your head. And then where are you? 
Fun. 
[Suggested and reviewed by Stephan Chodorov] 
* 
The Savage Mind 
Claude Levi-Strauss is the most famous — | mean, all 
the anthropologists recommend — He’s so — | mean, so 
what if he’s French — The most profound — Sartre 
couldn’t — structural anthropology was what — Primitive 
doesn’t mean — | mean, they knew what they were 
doing — So when — It looks crazy to us of course — They 
were just abstracting in a different — But you can analyze 
it once you — So you see, ritual is the — If you never — 
The Indians always — | mean, what makes you think 
youre so logical? 
[Suggested by Michael Harnen: 
Not reviewed by Lily Tomlin.] 
The Savage Mind 
Claude Lévi-Strauss 
1962, 1966; 290 pp. 
$3.25 postpaid from: 
University of Chicago Press 
11030 South Langley Avenue 
Chicago, IIlinois 60628 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
PSYCHOLOGY TODAY 
Awake 
ae 
+ REM Sleep 
‘ 
One 
Two 
Three 
Four 
| 
11pm 
12m 
1am 
2am 
_ 3am 
Time 
Psychology Today: An Introduction 
1970; 707 pp. 
$ 16.95 postpaid 
from: 
Communications/Research/Machines, Inc. 
Del Mar, CA 92014 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Speed kills 
° 
May hypothesizes that when a culture is moving toward integration 
and unity, it has a system of symbols, myths, and values that give 
integration to the members of society, and people are then relatively 
free from psychological breakdown. But when a culture is in the 
process of disintegration, it loses first of all its myths and symbols, 
then its system of values that have been based on these myths. 
Subsequently, people in large numbers come to seek psychological 
help. May believes that therapy will remain a critical part of our 
cultural scene until society discovers new myths and symbols to 
Figure 7.14 
Aggression elicited by shocks may be 
displaced to a doll if another rat 
is not present. 
Read at sight the following unspaced passage in which each second 
word has been spelled backwards: 
AsnoosasehtsermonsifinishedydobonpresumesotstirllitSirregoRise 
nogoutfothehcruhc. Thethginkwalksnwodfromsihseatnithelec 
nahcbetweenadoubleworofsihtenantstahtstandgniwobtomihon 
hcaeside,dnaeverywonandnehtinquireswohsuchnaone’sefiwor 
rehtomornosorrehtafdo,mohwheseodnoteesathcruhc——which 
siunderstoodsaatercesreprimandotthenosrepthatsiabsent. 
Psychological Exercises & Essays 
pier hes 
A. R. Orage 
PSYCHO- 
1930... 1968; 121 pp. 
OGICA! 
: Bare te, 
$2.50 postpaid 
from: 
Samuel Weiser 
734 Broadway 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
‘or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Several thousand Coahuila Indians never exhausted the natural 
resources of a desert region in South California, in which today 
only a handful of white families manage to subsist. They lived in 
a land of plenty, for in this apparently completely barren territory, 
they were familiar with no less than sixty kinds of edible plants 
and twenty-eight others of narcotic, stimulant or medicinal prop- 
erties (Barrows). A single Seminol informant could identify two 
hundred and fifty species and varieites of plants (Sturtevant). Three 
hundred and fifty plants known to the Hopi Indians and more than 
five hundred to the Navaho have been recorded. 
The real question is not whether the touch of a woodpecker's 
beak does in fact cure toothache. 
It is rather whether there is a 
point of view from which a woodpecker’s beak and a man’s tooth 
can be seen as “going together’ (the use of this congruity for 
therapeutic purposes being only one of its possible uses), and 
whether some initial order can be introduced into the universe 
by means of these groupings. Classifying, as opposed to not 
classifying, has a value of its own, whatever form the classification 
may take. 
' 
replace those we are currently losing. 
students, who shall afterwards report it correctly. 
E.g., the lights are suddenly turned off. Student A. blows a p 
whistle. He scuffles with Student B. and some noisy conversation 
takes place between them. Student B. escapes, making some 
mar rk 
as he bangs the door behind him. The lights are now turned up; and 
the rest of the students are called upon to report fully, accurat 
\ 
and in proper sequence the events of the episode. 
Arrange the following sentences in order of their intellectual | 
and give reasons for your arrangement. 
, 
Where law ends, tyranny begins. 
The road to Hell is paved with good intentions. 
A desire in psychology has the samé status as a force in physi 
Our antagonist is our helper. 
The world is a comedy to those who think, a tragedy to those 
Man's character is his destiny. 
A stitch in time saves nine. 
things must have their place” (Fletcher 2, p. 34). It Gohiteh ev 
said that being in their place is what makes them sacred for if 
: 
were taken out of their place, even in thought, the entire order 
the universe would be destroyed. Sacred objects therefore « 
con 
to the maintenance of order in the universe by occupying the 
~ 
places allocated to them. Examined superficially and from the 
outside, the refinements of ritual can appear pointless. Tt 
1 
explicable by a concern for what one might call ‘“‘micro-a 
——the concern to assign every single creature, object or f 
a place within a class. 
F 
We have had to wait until the middle of this century for the 
crossing of long separated paths: that which arrives at the 
world by the detour of communication, and that which as | 
recently come to know, arrives at the world of communicati 
the detour of the physical. The entire process of human 
kno 
thus assumes the character of a closed system. And we the 
remain faithful to the inspiration of the savage mind whe 
recognize that, by an encounter it alone could have for 
scientific spirit in its most modern: form will have con 
legitimize the principles of savas, thought and to 
its rightful piers 
