haa 
Gravely Corporation 
Gravely Lane 
Clemons, N. C. 27012 
oe 
Plants & Gardens 
The Brooklyn Botanic Garden publishes reprints from its 
quarterly magazine, Plants & Gardens, in booklet form. They 
_call them “the world’s best illustrated garden & horticu/tural 
books,” and they may well be. 
There are 40-50 manuals on a variety of garden subjects, each 
full of excellent photos and sound advice. 
HANDBOOK 
ON 
HERBS 
AKOOKLYN ROTANUG GARDE 
PLANTS 
Plants & Gardens 
$2.00 /year (quarterly) 
HANDBOOK 
0} 
; 
were Ne! 
; $1.00 /reprint, postpaid 
BIOLOGICAL CONTROL 
OF PLANT PESTS 
from: 
Brooklyn, N. Y. 11225 
: 
* 
Desert Plants and People 
The best book | know of on the useful plants of the arid 
regions of northern Mexico and southwestern United States. 
/t tells of plants used for food, medicine, construction, 
crafts, livestock fodder, etc. Lots of pictures. Also many 
interesting stories of Mexican “‘curados” (herb doctors). 
[Suggested and reviewed by Paul Bandy] 
Desert Plants and People 
Sam Hicks 
1966; 75 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
The Naylor Company, Publishers 
1015 Culebra 
San Antonio, Texas 78201 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
by Erle Stanley Gardner 
ALI 
ENTS UTENSILS BASKETRY 
FOODS BEVERAGE TEAS FUEL SHADE 
DISINFECTANTS BUILDING MATERIALS 
MEDICINAL REMEDIES CANDLEMAKING 
IMPLEMENTS LIVESTOCK FEED 
Angel Lopez, formerly of Ixclan, Nyarit, is also a man of self- 
reliance and unusual capabilities. He attributes the cure of his 
stomach ulcers, shortly after he came to the United States, to the 
herb teas he took while he was working as a section hand on the 
railroad. He now has a few head of milk cows, some poultry, and a 
good many beehives from which he derives his principal income. He 
is the gentlest person with his livestock | believe | have ever seen and 
is so considerate of his bees that his actions seem to border on the 
ridiculous. 
| have watched him hunting about his place on cold, spring evenings, 
carefully gathering up those bees too chilled and too heavily laden 
with pollen to fly. He gently puts them in his old felt hat, and after 
searching until he’s sure that none will be left out to suffer further 
from the cold, he carries them to his car and closes them in for the 
_ night. He is an enthusiastic student of natural things and a man of 
infinite patience. 
| once visited with him as he dug a colony of 
ants out of the ground near his house, put them all in a fruit jar, 
and transplanted them several miles away, rather than exterminate 
them. 
° 
* 
Gravely Tractor’ 
/ own an old one——and my 
5 acres is more like 35. We 
mow, plow, cultivate, cut brush, saw wood, pump water, 
plow and blow deep snow, clear ice, haul, etc., with it. 
No belts and plenty of power. 
(Don’t try to help it—— 
it’s stronger than you are.) Rotary plow turns organic 
debris under and leaves a ready-to-plant seed bed in 
one operation. 
How did you miss it so long? Not cheap, first cost, but 
it will outlast them all and does a better job easier. 
, 
[Reviewed by George D. James, Jr.] 
Brochure from: 
2 wheel tractors $500-910. 
Rotary plow 
$136.00 
Rotary mower $144.00 
4-wheel tractors $1135-1767. 
The Brooklyn Botanic Garden 
Use of nod On any crop most of the ial pests are held 
under control by natural enemies. Those which are not so controlled 
may require chemical treatment. 
In so doing it is probable that the 
natural enemies of the minor, or potential, pests will be eliminated so 
that their hosts will assume pest proportions in the absence of natural 
checks. This has been demonstrated in California on avocados which 
enjoy excellent biological pest control; growers have found that a little 
insect damage from no chemical treatment is preferable to opening 
Pandora’s box of added problems by the ill-advised use of insecticides. 
Biological Control of Plant Pests 
e 
Sweet Marjoram (Majorana hortensts) 
One of the most fragrant and popular of.all herbs. 
It is low and 
spreading, reaching about8 to 12 inches in height, with small, oval, 
gray-green leaves that are velvety to the touch. 
Use: The fresh or dried leaves are widely used as a flavoring in 
cooking. 
Oil is used in perfumery. 
Horticultural Use: Gray color of foliage contrasts well with brighter 
greens. Can be used in borders. 
Culture: 
Easily grown from seed or cuttings. 
In the North it is 
best treated as an annual or kept over winter as a pot plant. In 
the South it is perennial. 
Harvesting: 
Use fresh at any time; cut leafy stems at flowering time 
and dry for future use. 
Herbs 
+ 
The value of the useful mints lies in volatile oils produced on their 
leaves and stems. These oils are found in tiny glands which can be 
seen with a magnifying glass. 
If a hand is brushed against the plant 
some of the oil is released and clings to the skin. 
Herbs 
The ocotillo, also known as coachwhip. Jacob's-staff, and vine- 
cactus, is found in desert areas from the western part of Texas 
to the southern part of California and south into Mexico. The 
plant usually has several slender, spiny branches and may grow as 
high as twenty feet. It is used as a hedge plant at times Fences 
may be built of it, and it has also been used in combination with 
adobe mud as a building material. 
Sycamore Bark, or Cascara de Aliso, Tea. A pleasant beverage, this 
tea is similar to sassafras in both color and taste. The bark is 
chipped from the trunk near ground level, or from the roots 
slightly below the surface. The bark requires several minutes of 
brisk boiling to make a flavorful, red tea. Cascara de aliso tea is 
widely used in Mexico as a coffee substitute. Sections of orange 
or grapefruit peel are frequently cooked with the tea to add to its 
flavor. Young Indian women of the southern California tribes used 
to drink té de aliso as an aid to childbirth. 
Elderberry: Teas of varying strengths cooked from the flowers are 
taken by expectant mothers for morning sickness and given to tiny 
babies for colic. 
In Mexico, two glasses of flor de safico tea are 
still a standard dosage for breaking the fever of children suffering 
from measles. 
It is a soothing antacid tonic which, as a matter of 
custom, is sloshed liberally into burning stomachs the ‘‘morning 
after’’ by the participating members of gala southwestern fiestas. 
Hot tea is taken as a reliable cold and flu medicine, and flor de 
safico is also boiled in milk to make a medicated cough syrup. 
* 
bank under your pad. 
stream banks. 
Soil Conservation Service—USDA 
Most rural areas of the US are incorporated into Agricul- 
tural Conservation Districts. 
This situation offers two 
services you should be aware of. 
1. Soil conservationist & engineers— 
The services of these people are available to you through 
your local district office. If you need a livestock pond or 
watering sites for wild game, they'll do the engineering 
for you. They can also help out if your basement floods, 
your soil is blowing away or the creek is eating away the 
2. Agricultural Credit & Production— 
ACP, as this program is referred to, is a cost sharing program 
For information, \ 
for land owners or users sponsored by the US Dept. of 
Agriculture. If you are located within a conservation district, California ASCS Sta 
you may be eligible for government money to help you 
develop springs, seed pasture, build fences or stabilize 
[Reviewed oe Ed Johinsaril 
Blue crown passion flower. 
In Mexico an extract made fron crushed elderberry leaves soaked r 
in alcohol is taken in the proportion of ten drops toa glass of — 
water for halting diarrhea, and tea cooked from its leaves i 
is used bg ea 
for the treatment of dropsy. 
2 
: 
The best life saving plants are the cacti. Not only are the fruits 
of them eatable, palatable, and contain much nourishment, but 
plant is also. The round species that grow on the ground are the 
best. The top is cut off by inserting the knife blade into the side, 
a couple of inches from the top, then making a horizontal cut 
around it. The top is lifted off, chunks of the center are cut 
and chewed. 
It is surprising how refreshing and pleasant the 
is. What is in the juice not only ends your craving for water, it 
also replaces some food value to your body. The pulp of the cac' ti 
is only chewed, but the fruit that many of the cacti have are eaten, 
and from them you get the best food value. The young, tende! 
blades of the prickly pear cactus are eatable, raw or toasted ove 
The specie that they select is the best one for you. The best Bie 
to locate where water can be fou! nd is to watch the doves. Wh 
canyon or a draw in the mountains, follow their course, and you 
— 
will find a spring or atinaja. Animals’ trails will also lead yo 
them and in a rough country to make it easier you cannot lear 
too much. 
cee 
In California: 
2020 Milvia Street 
Berkeley, CA 947 
Cee gee 
Agricul 
Soil 
onservatio 
