* 
The Reader’s Adviser (vol 2) 
“A Layman’s Guide to the Best in Print in General Biography, 
- History, Bibles, World Religions, Philosophy, Psychology, the 
Sciences, Folklore, the Lively Arts, Communications and 
Travel.” And, by God, it is. As access to quality, it beats 
college. 
THE 
READER'S 
ADVISER 
A Layman’s Guide to the Best in 
Print in General Biography, History, 
Bibles, World Religions, Philosophy 
Psychology, the Sciences, Folklore 
the Lively Arts, Communications 
and Travel 
«° New Ilth Edition, 
Winifred F. Courtney, Editor <° « 
The Reader's Adviser (vol. 2) 
Winifred F. Courtney, Ed. 
1969; 912 pp. 
$1 5.95 postpaid 
from: 
R. R. Bowker Co. 
1180 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, N. Y. 10036 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Science Books 
A quarterly published by American Association for the 
Advancement of Science (the people who publish Science). 
Most of the reviews are specific and quite nitty-gritty, if 
they don’t like a book they often cite better books on the 
same subject. 
/t reviews books right on down to kinder- 
garten level; very helpful in locating non-anthropomorphic, 
factual, logical, and withal delightful books for young ones. 
[Suggested and reviewed by John Lord] 
Science Books 
$6.50 /yr., (quarterly) 
from: 
Publications Department 
American Association for the Advancement 
of Science 
1515 Massachusetts Avenue N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20005 
Movement Speakers Bureau 
Is an access to radicals catalog. A percentage of the 
speaker's fee goes to the Movement. 
(Why do / keep 
thinking of bowels.) Abbie Hoffman, Dr. Spock, Hugh 
Romney, Murray Bookchin, Paul Krassner, Noam Chomsky, 
Arthur Waskow, Tim Leary, Reies Tijerina, okay, okay. 
: 
Catalog 
Free 
MOVIE.SPEAIK. 
ome 
CATALOG OF THE 
MOVE 
SPEAKERS BUREAU 
Movement Speakers Bureau 
333 East Sth Street 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
RS BA 
Sa 
ep 
Bah 
THE KING JAMES VERSION is known as the Authorized Version, 
although, as a matter of fact, it was never authorized by the King. 
It was, however, initiated by him as the result of a Puritan complaint 
that the Coverdale Authorized Version, revised as the Bishops’ Bible 
(1568), was not accurate. He appointed a group of scholars to under- 
take the task of fresh translation. 
Later editions had printed on their 
title pages, “Appointed to be read in the churches,”’ which probably 
gave rise to the legend of authorization. The King James Version 
was made in 1607-11 during the lifetime of Shakespeare——the 
Golden Age of English literature. 
|t was translated by 54 scholars 
and is the most famous English Bible. 
Dwight Macdonald (like many who value the Bible as literature) 
regrets the fact that those who, with justice, have set out to correct 
this translation, have usually gone too far and bowdlerized great 
passages. 
For many the King James, with all its imperfections, can 
never be surpassed for poetry, religious feeling and majesty and 
loveliness of utterance. 
In ‘‘Against the American Grain’’ (Random 
1952 Vintage Bks. pap. $1.95) in his essay on the Revised Standard 
Version called ‘‘Updating the Bible,’’ Mr. Macdonald writes: 
‘’The 
King James Version is probably the greatest translation ever made. 
It is-certainly ‘The Noblest Monument of English Prose,’ as'the 
late John Livingston Lowes called his essay on the subject. 
‘Its 
phraseology,’ he wrote, ‘has become part and parcel of our common 
tongue. 
... 
Its rhythms and cadences, its turns of speech, its 
familiar imagery, its very words are woven into the texture of our 
literature. 
... The English of the Bible... is characterized not 
merely by a homely vigor and pithiness of phrase but also by a 
singular nobility of diction and by a rhythmic quality which is, | 
think, unrivalled in its beauty.’ 
. 
The speed with which it was 
accomplished was possible only because it was not so much a new 
translation as a synthesis of earlier efforts, the final form given to a 
continuous process of creation, the climax to the great century of 
English Bible translation."’ 
Oxford University Press—The Oxford line of Bibles is the most 
extensive on the market. The Oxford Bible paper, used in their 
finer editions, is made by a secret process, and is the most opaque 
India paper made. Oxford prints mainly the King James Version, 
but has some Bibles in the Revised Standard Version. ‘‘Oxford— 
America’s Gift Bible since 1675” is no idle advertising slogan. 
LAO-TZU (also Lao-tse or Lao-tsze; orig. Li Erh). 
¢. 604-531 B.c. 
Tur Wisvons or Laotse, Trans. by Lin Yu-t'ang, Modern Library 1948 $2.45 
Tao Te Crine: Tue Book or tim Way ann Its Virtue. (With title “The Way of 
Life: Tao Te Ching”) trans. by R. B. Blakney. New Am. Lib. 1955 pap. $-95 
Tao Tut Cxine, Trans. by J. H. Wu St, John’s Univ. Press $2.00; trans. by D, C. Lau 
Penguin 1964 pap. $.95 
bie Way or Lao Tzv. Trans. by Wing-t’sit Chan. Lib. Arts-Merrill 1963 $6:50. pap. 
1.95 
Tne Way or Lire, By Witter Bynner. The poet's version of the reflections of Lao-Tzu. 
John Day 1944 $2.50; Putnam 1962 Capricorn Bks. pap. $.95 
Tur Canon of Reason anv Vintwe. (Tao Teh King.) Ed. by Paul Carus, Chinese- 
Enylish Open Court rev. ed. $2.00 pap. $.95; (with title “Tao Tch King: Interpreted 
as Nature and Intelligence”) ed. by Archie J. Bahm Ungar 1958 $3.75 
Crvane Tzu, Serectioys. Trans. and ed. by Fung Yuan, Paragon Reprint $6.00 
Treatise on Responst ap Rereieetion. (Tai-Shang Kan-Ying P’ien.) Contains Chinese 
text and explanatory notes. Trans. by Daisetz Teitaro Suzuki and Paul Carus, 1906; 
ed. by Paul Carus. Open Court 1944 $1.50 pap. 1950 $.95 
Tue Savines or Lao Tzu. Trans. with introd. by Lionel Giles. ig50. Paragon Reprint 
128.2. 
MAN’S MIND 
ROSLANSKY, JOHN 
D. (ed.) 
The Human Mind. 
175 pp. $6.95. 67-30304. 
The proceedings of the third Nobel Conference is presented in this book. 
The con- 
Mie 
tents include seven papers from a variety of viewpoints, ranging from pure science, 
; 
“Biochemical Aspects of Learning and Memory” 
(H. Hyden) 
to “Christian Hu- 
The majority of papers, however, 
are concerned with the biochemistry and biophysics of mental evolution, develop- 
While all are written at a high level, the lead paper by Sir John 
“Evolution and the Conscious Self,” provides an excellent introduction to 
the development of man’s mental processes and should be readily understood by the 
most casual layman. The book is a series of specific papers representing the special 
interests of the writers, and does not in-any sense present an overview of the current 
: 
manism and the Human Mind” 
(J. Gustafson). 
ment and activity. 
Eccles, 
state of knowledge of the human mind. C-P * 
SCIENCE BOOKS 
* 
Whole Earth Catalog 
For a publication whose purpose is to egg on the conjuring 
and living of new forms, the Catalog is rather a traditional 
instrument, no more radical than Sears Roebuck or Con- 
sumer Reports, merely attuned to a new market, the sub- 
economy of dope and rock. A richer playground of bright 
ideas, and other voices, is the 4-times-a-year Supplement, 
now called $1 Catalog. 
: 
Whole Earth Catalog 
$4 Fall 69 CATALOG, 128 pp. 
$3 spring 70 CATALOG, 144 pp. 
$3 Fall 70 CATALOG, 144 pp. (November) 
NY: - Fleet, 
621.47. 
SOLAR ENERGY ENGINEERING. 
HALACY, D. S., Jr. Experiments With Solar Energy. NY: Norton, 1969, i 
illus. $4.14. 69-18892. 
with the Sun published in 1959, 
Being collateral reading, it might serve as a hd 
room or pete! science pes manual. 
and a By powered oie ee is placed on the wtilizatige of oad 
"ene 
in space vehicles and its potential use on lunar stations. that offers opportunities 
enterprising and imaginative young people. 
ticularly, in arid lands is not overlooked. 
The value of this updated volume is e 
hanced by the inclusion of clear diagrams and illustrative photographs, lists of fi 
engaged 
in solar-energy applications and 
a subject index. 
‘bibliography would have been desirable. 
1968; S/B 4(1) 59.| SH * 
$8 /yr: 2 big CATALOGS, 4 $1 Catalogs (Jan, March, July, Sept.) 
The Writings of William James: A Comprehensive Edition. Ed wit ot 
intred. by John J. McDermott, including ‘“Annotated Bibliograp! ae 
of James’ works. Random 1967 $15.00; Modern Library Giant: 
j 
“The vast selection of pieces represents the diversity in James’ 
thinking that most collections miss; there is a bibliography of Jame a 
writings, and a learned introduction that... 
provides a good accou re, 
of James’ ideas, particularly his changing ideas of consciousness: Thy 
—(New Republic). 
= 
WALTON, IZAAK. 1593-1683. 
The Compleat Angler: or, The Contemplative Man's Recreation. 
1653-1676. Dutton Everyman’s 1906 $2.45; ed. by John Buchan 
Oxford 1914 World's Classics 1935 $2.75 
“The Compleat Angler,’’ one of the most famous books in evigrise, 
> 
was written by a self-educated ironmonger. Walton wrote itforhis 
_ 
own pleasure as well as that of others; it not only describes the 
i 
technique of angling, but is a contemplative essay on the peace and — 
quietude attained by the fisherman. After its first appearance in 
= 
1653 there were frequent revisions adding new material duringthe 
author's lifetime. George Saintsbury called Walton's style oneofa 
_— 
“singular and golden simplicity.” “In spite of Walton‘s background v4 
he became recognized as a ‘‘gentleman” of cultured tastesand 
~*~ 
learning. An Anglican and Royalist, he was overjoyed with the = 
Restoration. 
In his own time, Walton was known as a biographer, 
author of the ‘Lives of Donne and Herbert” (Cambridge $.90) 
= 
and ‘‘Lives of John Donne, Sir Henry Wotton, Richard Hooker, 
ag 
George Herbert and Robert Sanderson” (Oxford $2.75). 
Nt 
Kenneth Rexroth wrote a charming essay on “’The Compleat Angler 
in the Saturday Review of Sept. 16, 1967, which catches the secre 
of its enduring appeal——and that of its author shining through it: 
— 
“Izaak Walton, above all other writers in English, owes his enormous 
popularity to his virtues as a man, and these virtues are what con- 
dition his style and give his work its fundamental meaning. Millions 
have read him with joy who have never caught a fish since child- 
hood, if at all. Indeed, ... in America at least, most of the kinds of 
fish he talks about are left to small boys. The second half of the 
Compleat Angler was added in late editions and written by Charles — 
Cotton as a guide to trout fishing in rough water. Those who want 
to know how to catch fish can learn most from Cotton's additions. 
— 
We read Izaak Walton for a special quality of soul... for his tone, 
— 
for his perfect attunement to the quiet streams and flowered 
meadows and bosky hills of the Thames valley long ago. 
... It 
may sound outrageous to say that |zaak Walton wrote one of the 
Great Books——and that about catching fish——because he wasa 
saint, but so itis. ... 
He is, in fact, an unusual embodimentof 
a quietly powerful tradition, that of the contemplative laymen, 
_ 
St. Thomas More, Nieholas Ferrer, William Law, Gilbert White. 
After the eighteenth century this type is more commonly found _ 
in the sciences than in religion. And like Gilbert White’s 
Pika 
Natural History and Antiquities of Selborne, Walton's The 
Compleat Angler is, in a sense, a scientific work, an quistenay ae 
example of the piety of science.’ 
|zaak Walton. By Margaret Bottrall. Pamphlet. British Bk. 
Centre pap. $.75 
The Art of ‘‘The Compleat Angler.’’ By John R. Cooper. Prot 
essor Cooper teaches English and the humanities at the Unie 
ir 
versity of Chicago. Duke Univ. Press 1967 $6.00 
1969. 
(c. 1967). 
_ Directions are given on the selection 
Its expanded usefulness on eartt 
A more comprehensive 
|See also Solar Energy by John Hoke: 
TALOG 
pints 
53 
& EAR 
wort 
from: 
Whole Earth Catalog 
558 Santa Cruz Avenue 
Menlo Park, CA 94025 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG. 
= 
, 
Co 
‘ 
ee 
