1 Way of Knowledge 
s book records the experiences of an anthropology student 
ecomes the apprentice of Don Juan, a Yaqui indian “man 
owledge” who is also a “diablero,” a black sorcerer. 
It 
foundly disturbing book since it opens up areas and 
s 
usually dismiss or deny. Don Juan, over a period of 
ears, teaches the author a little of his knowledge. He 
shes through giving his apprentice various psycho-active 
ts: peyote, datura, and a mixture of psilocybin mushrooms, 
sta canariensis, and other plants. Each of these plants has 
wn way of teaching, its own demands and its own kind of 
r. For those of us who thought we understood psyche- 
ic effects this book reveals the rudimentary state of our 
nowledge. For those of us who have dismissed magic as a 
ibination of hypnotism and stage effects we are confronted 
ith 
powerful and effective magic which seems irrefutable. 
as 
on Juan himself appears as a powerful, indecipherable, wise 
man 
whose knowledge is both extensive and alien to our own. 
He offers to each of us the possibility of dealing with other 
realities, but he makes it clear that all these ways are danger- 
ous, difficult and once entered, cannot be put aside as simply 
nother experience. 
Ti he goal of his teaching is partially expressed as follows: 
~ the two worlds, the world of the diableros and the world of living 
men. There is a place where these two worlds overlap. The crack 
is there. 
It opens and closes like a door in the wind. To get there 
-aman must exercise his will. He must, | should say, develop an 
: 
do it without the help of any power or any man... 
= 
Not a 
book to be read for pleasure, a book which will affect 
you more than you may wish to be affected. 
__ 
Ss 
[Reviewed by James Fadiman] 
(We y not read it for pleasure? It’s frontier Boswell and 
Johnson. —SB) 
_ 
but | also want to know everything | can. You yourself have said 
that knowledge is power.” 
one holds. What is the sense of knowing things that are useless?” 
\ltered States of Consciousness 
‘ure doing anything with meditation, dope, hypnosis, 
ms, 
subjective‘expieration of any kind, this is a useful 
_ 
John Lilly borrowed our review copy and returned it 
particular recommendation for these articles: 
Inquiry with Aldous Huxley into the Natureand 
Milton H. Erickson 
cter of Various States of Consciousness 
the Experimental Control of Dreaming 
Charles Tart 
of Dreams 
Frederik van Eeden 
Charles Tart 
nosis 
Charles Tart 
ts of Marijuana on Consciousness 
Anonymous 
jective Effects of Nitrous Oxide 
William James 
le and Behavior Change Through 
Joseph Downing 
edelic Drug Use 
“hw 
lic Agents in Creative Problem Solving 
Harman, McKim, 
: 
$ 
Mogar, Fadiman, 
Stoleroff 
to the Literature on Psychedelic Drugs 
Charles Tart 
coencephalographic Study on the 
Kasamatsu, Hirai 
Meditation 
Control of the EEG Alpha Rhythm 
Joe Kamiya 
ind Some of Its Reported Effects on 
lousness 
f 
here in the CATALOG is a book called Direct Use of the 
nergy. Tart’s book is moving toward Direct Use of the 
Energy. 
first three to five hours are usually individual, to try to relax 
Spouses’ problems; usually we like spouses separate for first group’ 
ts. If both are present, it is better if you start in different 
but if you both want to be together, okay. 
be surprised at anything you may see the therapist doing— 
nswhatheis doing. 
~ 
rson who is having trouble breaking through needs something 
-against—the therapist may hand wrestle, or be on top and have 
x others on top as well. The person then can exert all his 
break loose. 
e you are in trouble, don’t hesitate to ask for help. 
opie make break-through you'll hear laughing, crying, 
- Don’t worry about it, or get concerned. 
1g 
is expected of you, don’t expect anything of yourself— 
le have a glorious trip. 
joid impressing anybody—you'll have a better trip. 
1 
to four hours after beginning, a stimulant will be 
to keep your energy level up. 
jou want to stop the trip, take some niacin, 500 to 
ne. Niacin is good for bad re-entry, will make it 
experience, if you want to come together, touch the 
n. He may shake his head ‘no,’ or else turn and 
e hurt feelings, or guilt if they don’t want to 
selves. @ 
Se 
a 
eee 
So 
The particular thing to learn is how to get to the crack between the 
__ 
worlds and how to enter the other world. There is a crack between 
_ indomitable desire for it, a single-minded dedication. But he must 
“Don’t get me wrong, Don Juan,” | protested. ‘’! want to have an ally, 
He looked at me for along time and laughed. He said that learning 
through conversation was not only a waste, but stupidity, because 
learning was the most difficult task a man could undertake. He 
asked me to remember the time | had tried to find my spot, and 
how | wanted to find it without doing any work because | had ex- 
pected him to hand out all the information. 
If he had done so, he 
said, | would never have learned. But, knowing how difficult it was 
to find my spot and; above all, knowing that it existed, would give 
me a unique sense of confidence. He said that while | remained 
rooted to my ‘’good spot’’ nothing could cause me bodily harm, 
because | had the assurance that at that particular spot | was at my 
very best. | had the power to shove off anything that might be 
harmful to me. 
If, however, he had told me where it was, | would 
never have had the confidence needed to claim it as true knowledge. 
Thus, knowledge was indeed power. 
“hi veer ered aed cortege 
eect ahead SS Sane owt Tee! 
The teachings of Don Juan: 
a Yaqui way of knowledge 
Carlos Castaneda 
Carlos Castaneda 
1968; 276 pp. 
$.95 postpaid 
"Nol" he said emphatically. “‘Power rests on the kind of knowledge 
The most coherent and articulate sentence which came was this: 
There are no differences but differences of degree between 
different degrees of difference and no difference. 
The change that then came over Bill was dramatic. He began 
mumbling typical induction suggestions about relaxing, but over the 
course of a few minutes his voice became dramatic and forceful. He 
suggested that Anne see a diamond in her hand and concentrate on it 
and then almost immediately suggested that it would disappear and 
her mind would go blank. Then he very forcefully suggested physi- 
cal relaxation as he counted her into hypnosis: when he reached 20 
his whole manner changed and became relaxed and soothing. Anne 
reported a depth of 22. 
Bill then began talking about a ‘hallucinatory’ journey that he and 
Anne were on together. 
His voice was confident, smooth, relaxed, 
and completely convincing that he was describing actual events that 
were happening rather than anything ‘unreal.’ They were standing on 
a mountain slope, in front of the entrance to a tunnel. They walked 
hand-in-hand down this tunnel, with the explicit suggestion by Bill 
that they would be going deeper into hypnosis as they walked deeper 
into the dark tunnel. It was quiet in the tunnel, all outside noises had 
vanished, and an ineffable feeling of pleasantness and significance 
pervaded the tunnel. Anne reported a depth of 35 after a few minutes 
of this, and Bill continued describing their walk down the tunnel. 
The tunnel was absolutely. real to Anne and Bill (and to Carol), as real 
as any experience in life. Although it was dark they could ‘see’ its 
walls in a strange way: Anne said it felt as if she had a ‘light’ coming 
out from under her eyebrows, and ”...it wasn’t illuminating anything 
| was seeing, yet it helped me to know that things were there without 
seeing them.” Both Ss reported feeling the texture of the rock walls, 
which ranged from soft and slippery at places where it seemed moass- 
covered to quite hard where the bare rock was exposed. 
Anne and Carol were intensely curious as to what lay at the end of 
the tunnel, the end that Bill would not let them reach. This resulted 
in an interesting aftermath. About a month after this session, Anne 
was a subject in a group hypnosis test. As she knew what the induc- 
tion procedure was, she decided to ‘go’ back to the tunnel and explore 
it as soon as she was hypnotized but before the suggestibility test 
items were administered. She found herself running along the tunnel, 
hurrying to reach the end before the test items. At the end of the 
tunnel she found a cave, blazing with brilliant white light, and occu- 
pied by an old man of angelic appearance. The room was filled with 
music from an unseen source, Anne repeatedly asked him what this 
experience meant: he ignored her at first, and finally told her, very 
sternly, that he could not answer her question because Bill was not 
with her. Anne then found herself back at the group hypnosis testing. 
| asked the Ss about their perceived bodies during the experience and 
found that they were curiously disembodied much of the time. They 
mentioned having heads or faces but no bodies at times, and Anne 
reported that they walked through each other sometimes. When Bill 
commanded Anne to give him her hand so he could lead her back, 
Anne reported that she had to ‘‘crawl back into my body, sort of. It 
was almost as if we were moving around with. just heads. When Bill 
Said give him my hand, | had to kind of conjure up a hand.” 
Anne and Bill read the transcripts over and were both shocked. They 
had been talking about their experiences to each other for some time, 
and found they had been discussing details of the experiences they had 
shared for which there were no verbal stimuli on the tapes, i.e, they 
© 
felt they must have been communicating telepathically or that they 
had actually been ‘in’ the nonworldly locales they had experienced. 
This was frightening to both Ss, for what had seemed a lovely shared 
fantasy now threatened to be something real. @ 
Once a man has vanquished fear, he is free from it for the rest of his 
life because instead of fear, he has acquired clarity of mind which 
erases fear. By then aman knows his desires; he knows how to 
satisfy those desires. He can anticipate the new steps of learning, 
and a sharp clarity surrounds everything. The man feels that nothing 
is concealed. 
And thus he has encountered his second enemy: 
Clarity! That clarity 
of mind, which is so hard to obtain, dispels fear, but also blinds. 
“| say it is useless to waste your life on one path, especially if that 
path has no heart.” 
“But how do you know when a path has no heart, Don Juan?”’ 
“‘Before you embark on it you ask the question Does this path have a 
heart? 
If the answer is no, you will know it, and then you must 
choose another path.” 
“But how will | know for sure whether a Path has a heart or not?” 
“Anybody would know that. The trouble is nobody asks the question; 
and when a man finally realizes that he has taken a path without a 
heart the path is ready to kill him. At that point very few men can 
stop to deliberate, and leave the path.” 
“How should | proceed to ask the question properly, Don Juan?” 
“Just ask it.” 
“| mean, is there a proper method, so | would not lie to myself and 
believe the answer is yes when it really is no?” 
“Why would you lie?” 
“Perhaps because at the moment the path is pleasant and enjoyable.” 
“That is nonsense. A path without a heart is never enjoyable. You 
have to work hard even to take it. On the other hand, a path with 
’ 
aheart is easy; it does not make you work at liking it.” 
You have the vanity to believe you live in two worlds, but that is only 
your vanity. There is but one single world for us. We are men, and 
must follow the world of men contentediv. 
“But is this business ot the dog and me pissing on each other true?” 
“It was not a dog How many times do | have to tell you that? This 
is the only way to understand it. It’s the only way! 
It was ‘he’ who 
played with you.” 
“Let's put it another way, Don Juan. What | meant to say is that if 
| had tied myself to a rock with a heavy chain | would have flown 
just the same, because my body had nothing to do with my flying.” 
Don looked at me incredulously. ‘If you tie yourself to a rock,” 
he said, “I’m afraid you will have to fly holding the rock with its 
heavy chain.” 
The Teachings of Don Juan: A Yaqui Way of Knowledge 
from: 
Ballantine Books 
Simon and Schuster, Inc. 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10020 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Wonderingly, but with outward calm, | undertook to arouse Huxley 
from the trance state by accepting the partial clues given and by say- 
ing in essence, ‘‘Wherever you are, whatever you are doing, listen 
closely to what is being said, and slowly, gradually, comfortably 
begin to act upon it. Feel rested and comfortable, feel a need to 
establish an increasing contact with my voice, with me, with the 
situation | represent, a need of returning to matters-in hand with me 
not so long ago, ir the not so long ago belonging to me, and leave 
behind but AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST practically everything of 
importance, KNOWING BUT NOT KNOWING that it is AVAILABLE 
UPON REQUEST. And now, let us see, that's right, you are sitting 
there, wide awake, rested, comfortable, and ready for discussion of 
what little there is.”’ 
As he watched, he became annoyed with me since | was apparently 
trying to talk to him, and he experienced a wave of impatience and 
requested that | be silent. He turned back and noted that the infant 
was growing before his eyes, was creeping, sitting, standing, toddling, 
walking, playing, talking. In utter fascination he watched this grow- 
ing child, sensed its subjective experiences of learning, of wanting, af 
feeling. He followed it in distorted time through a multitude of 
experiences as it passed from infancy to childhood to school days to 
early youth to teenage. He watched the child’s physical development, 
sensed its physical and subjective mental experiences, sympathized 
with it, empathized with it, rejoiced with it, thought and wondered 
and learned with it. He felt as one with it, as if it were he himself , 
and he continued to watch it until finally he realized that he had 
watched that infant grow to the maturity of 23 years. He stepped 
closer to see what the young man was looking at, and suddenly 
realized that the young man was Aldous Huxley himself, and that ithis 
Aldous Huxley was looking at another Aldous Huxley, obviously 
in his early fifties, just across the vestibule in which they both were 
standing; and that he aged 52, was looking at himself, Aldous, aged 
23. Then Aldous, aged 23 and Aldous aged 52, apparently realized 
simultaneously that they were looking at each other and the curious 
questions at once arose in the mind of each of them. For one the 
question was, “Is that my idea of what I'll be like when | am 52?” 
and, “‘Is that really the way | appeared when | was 23?” Each was 
aware of the question in the other’s mind. Each found the question 
of “‘Extraordinarily fascinating interest’ and each tried to determine 
which was the “actual reality’’ and which was the “mere subjective 
experience outwardly projected in hallucinatory form.” 
When | have been flying in my dreams for two or three nights, then | 
know that a lucid dream is at hand. And the lucid dream itself is often 
initiated and accompanied all the time by the sensation of flying. 
Sometimes | feel myself floating swiftly through wide spaces; once | 
flew backwards, and once, dreaming that | was inside a cathedral, | 
flew upwards, with the immense building and all in it, at great speed. 
Altered States of Consciousness , 
Charles Tart, ed. 
1969; 575 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid 
from: 
John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 
One Wiley Drive 
Somerset, N. J. 08873 
Western Distribution Center 
1530 South Redwood Road 
Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 
SETERED STATES 
OF CONSCIOUSEESS 
A Book of Readings 
Edited by CHARLES T. TART 
at phe 
Ne 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
oa 
