nately and ironically, Lou Kelso, who has some 
aginative economic proposals, has been offering 
form ny “pays to the establishment, the dinosaur 
é 
nd structure (that is, capital) produce 
saith in the same way that human labor does. He calls 
insight “ ‘two factor’’ economics or “universal capit- 
“and since it recognizes the emerging importance 
enon: and accepts the diminishing necessi ty of 
carck those seeking alternatives to dinosaur existence. 
0’s book struggles manfully with practical solutions, 
ead 
a Second Income Plan, a Capital Diffusion 
TI 
osals have been laid on presidential candidates, 
gressmen, newspaper publishers, leading economists, 
ad 
nearly all key decision makers of the establishment over 
a-over_again. 
either Kelso is a lousy salesman or the dinosaurs are 
An Alternative Future for America I 
What's different about this book of economics is that it was 
designed by graduate students. 
Though Theobald is the 
soloist, the voices of the young generation can plainly be 
heard. 
It makes you wish that every author who writes 
about new ways of coping with the changing world would 
be forced to immerse himself in the lives of those for whom 
he purports to make predictions. 
Because it reads like a collection of class notes and uncom- 
pleted journal articles (all of which is probably true), the 
book pulled me into wanting to add a chapter or two of 
my own. 
That Is a delicious feeling, when you have been 
so many times bored by economics tex ts; 
In fact, the book abruptly ends with a specific invitation 
to its readers to take some further action. 1 would hope 
subsequent editions will continue to have such an open- 
ended design. 
The stuff to “wow” over in the book includes Theobald’s 
high-headed insights into computerized decision making 
(“There is no doubt in my mind that the computer has 
been one of the factors that has led us into the present 
disastrous situation in Vietnam”), and his list of the five 
traps we've laid for our social system: 
the war trap, into 
which we have put all our ultimate sanctions for solving 
international disputes, the efficiency trap, in which we place 
man’s human value to lie measured against the efficiency of 
machines; the consumption trap——/f /t’s good, it must have 
a sales price and be advertised; and the education trap, /n 
which we cement our behavior to the past. The fifth 
“untinished 
“Our key problem stems from the fact that we have made the 
value of a man synonymous with the economic value of the toil | 
he performs: we fail to recognize that people should have a 
claim on resources even if they do not toil. The measure of destruc- 
~ 
; 
tion of our values is, | believe, shown in the fact that those living in 
Shape ee ay 
an industrial society find it natural that people do not receive an 
re 
adequate amount of food, clothing and shelter even though there 
is surplus food in storage and the possibility of producing more 
housing and more clothing if we gave people the money to buy 
them. We can contrast this view with that of the so-called prim- 
itive societies; in many of these it was literally impossible to 
starve unless the whole community was starving. George Peter 
Murdoch, the celebrated anthropologist, described the reaction 
of one group of natives when he tried to explain the problem of 
the poor in Western countries. There was stark disbelief: 
‘‘How 
can he have no food? Does he have no friends? How can he have 
no house? Does he have no neighbors?”’ 
We can anticipate the organization of what | have called ‘‘consentives’’: 
productive groups formed by individuals who will come together on a 
voluntary basis, simply because they wish to do so. The goods produced 
by these consentives will not compete with mass-produced products 
available from cybernated productive organizations; the consentive will 
produce the ‘custom-designed’ goods and services which have been 
vanishing within the present economy. 
There is no doubt that some people would not choose to perform 
productive activities but | personally remain impressed with the 
comment of a banker colleague who arrived at the guaranteed 
income idea independently and who says: 
‘’Given the fact that 
3% in all income classes are bums, it’s strange that we're only 
concerned about the element of bums among the poor.”’ Indeed, 
surveys show that most Americans in all income classes have an 
almost pathological desire to toil. 
| personally anticipate that there 
will be so many people looking for toil in coming years compared 
to the amount of toil available that people will be prepared to pay 
to obtain it. 
trap never gets listed——see what | mean: 
journal articles’? 
z 
Sgcccsccccccenccscsscsssscncccsesceasassseseccscuscsessussscsssssssancsass 
onvinced their own designs will see them through. 
aa 
2 
Wvice to Lou is: “Come on, Lou, grow /ong hair, 
Theobald’s most orderly work has to do with his persuasive 
as * 
// that establishment costumery, immerse yourself 
case for a guaranteed income, about which he has written 
=: Walden 
) the now generation, and start to work with a constit- 
for many years. The potentiality for his ideas during this 
rH 
icy that wants you and needs you. /f you don’t some 
#: distressed period of history are ever more dazzling. Andin 
= This edition is the one, | believe, that Thoreau would have 
young radical economist certainly will.” 
this book, the dazzlement is fully let loose in a series of far-- 
#3 bought. It costs fifty cents. 
The prime document of 
[Suggested and reviewed by Richard Raymond] 
out proposals for experimenting with altered life styles. 
33 America’s 3rd revolution, now in progress. 
ws 
/t may be weeks before | stop trembling. 
That’s why | 
EH 
: 
: 
wanted to add another chapter or two, when | got to the 
= 
we Ponto Theory: The Economics of Reality 
end 
of the book. 
- 
: 
rr 
ouis O. Kelso and Patricia Hetter 
[Reviewed by Richard Raymond] 
cE 
02 
oe 
ie Alternative Future for America il 
zs 
Robert Theobald 
oe 
i 
1968, 1970; 199 pp. 
$2.00 postpaid 
Mm. 
lodern Library, Inc. 
57 Madison Avenue 
. Y. 10022 
from: 
is 
Theory: 
The Swallow Press, Inc. 
“farsi re Thore 
OLE EARTH CATALOG 
1139 Wabash Avenue 
au 
The Ecomumics of Reality: 
Chicago, Illinois 60605 
1854; 271 pp. 
or WHOLE 
$.50 postpaid 
EARTH 
on 
CATALOG 
rom: 
Harper & Row, Publishers, ‘Inc. 
49 East 33rd Street 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
by BORERT THEDSALO 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
heory of unviersal capitalism makes two assumptions about the 
£3 Diverse communities would move rapidly toward a free goods 
‘society. One is that its most important value is freedom. Any 
$5 situation: one where a person walks into a store and takes what- 
iety seriously caring about freedom must structure its economic 
8s 
ever he wishes off the shelves. We may not have reached a free 
itutions so as,to widely diffuse economic power while keeping it 
$8 goods situation by the end of the 1970's but we will certainly 
e hands of individual citizens. Nor can freedom in an industrial 
'5 have moved along way towards it. This is inevitable because an 
jocracy be long maintained unless the economic well-being of 
= increasing number of people will be living on Basic Economic 
ajority is reasonably secure. Never in history has universal 
82 Security (BES) and Committed Spending (CS). People who live 
Most of the luxuries, and many of the so-called comforts of life, 
are not only not indispensable, but positive hindrances to the 
elevation of mankind. With respect to luxuries and comforts, the 
wisest have ever lived a more simple and meagre life than the poor. 
The customs of some savage nations might, perchance, be profitably 
je been built on a sound economic foundation; it is this 
$5 on BES and CS are not going to use money for exchanging goods 
imitated by us, for they at least go through the semblance of 
t, not the ordinary man’s inability to cope with freedom, that 
$8. among themselves. They are going to swap human services without 
casting their slough annually; they have the idea of the thing, 
ounts for the notorious fragility of democratic institutions. 
®= exchanging money. 
whether they have the reality or not. Would it not be well if we 
Fi 
a 
5 
os 
ri 
1 
ia 
: 
oe 
ndly, it i is assumed that leisure is essential to a civilized definition 
ss The availability of free goods would lead to some very interesting 
were to celebrate such a 
‘‘busk," 
or 
‘feast of first fruits,’’ 
as 
uence. To venerate collectively what every intelligent man 
ss developments. 
First, we could begin to eliminate the power which 
Bartram describes to have been the custom of the Mucclasse 
schews individually, namely unnecessary toil for the goods of sub- 
Bap pac iteamenennecacs by the community to certain groups in the 
Indians? 
“When a town celebrates the busk,” 
says he, 
“having 
ce, Makes no human sense. Today, in Western industrial 
== society, which enables them to peg high prices, rates of interest, 
previously provided themselves with new clothes, new pots, pans, 
we see toil advancing totalitarian claims on the whole of 
rH wages SATionlariostinttine future, prices, wages, rates of interest 
and other household utensils and furniture, they collect all their 
t the very moment in history when technology offers liberation. 
$8 and salaries should fall because prices would be related to scarcity 
worn out clothes and other despicable things, sweep and cleanse 
re and the liberal-arts tradition are giving way to the totalitarian 
§! ong we are moving into a position of abundance. 
their houses, squares, and the whole town, of their filth, which 
‘state which has no place for whole men, only ‘‘human resources” ss 
with all the remaining grain and’other old provisions they cast 
ewitectunctionaries. 
a 
e 
together into one common heap, and consume it with fire. After 
‘ 
he 
having taken medicine, and fasted for three days, all the fire in 
. 
Fg oupporters oF ae aicia ager adeas pnd Sele oe poverty, 
the town is extinguished. 
During this fast they abstain from 
aa 
t 
eae 
f 
: 
darold Moulton of the Brookings Institution first pointed out 
ss Felt aia et Pri caterers ee Bey cepa coe: by phe in 
the gratification of every appetite and passion whatever. A 
1935, new capital does not have to be financed exclusively from 
BET ceeClontinachine t0 be reprogrammed from time to time as 
general amnesty Is proclaimed; all malefactors may return to 
ings. It can just as easily and logically be financed from 
ss machines make his existing skills obsolete. The destruction of his 
unto ery 
by means that create new capital owners simultaneously 
== work and life pattern is regretted but seen as unavoidable. 
Indeed, 
“On the fourth morning, the high priest, by rubbing dry wood 
lew capital assets. Capital produces wealth. Unlike consumer 
$8 One can go further and argue that the generally accepted goals of 
h 
together, produces new fire in the public square, from whence 
, 
itis inherently financeable. With very slight alterations the 
=: our society appear to be technological wizardry, economic efficiency 
ss 
every habitation in the town is supplied with the new and pure 
hniques being used today to finance the ee of 
3 and the developed individual in the good society, but in that order. 
i: flame.” 
ncome-producing consumer goods can be employe 
i) 
®s | often fear that we persist in this order of priorities because we 
ss 
“ 
y expand the existing economy——to build 
aSecond Economy — $49 |onger want to know more about human begins and human 
rH 
(2) to enable i Salis ie eo Be, mY aa 
“a systems of organization. Compared to a (necessarily) functionally 
new Capital as it is formed, paying 
for it precisely as 
the 
38 Laat clean, odorless, efficient and continuously functioning 
te 
ss | learned this, at least, by my experiment: 
that if one advances 
rH confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live 
5 
j 
i 
me 
44 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
Owner (with rare rosetta has always done 
out of the 
ss cybernetic machine system, a unit of mankind is messy, smelly, 
ss the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unex- 
he newly formed capital produces 
#2 disobedient, quarrelsome, lazy and a walking source of error. For 
= pected in common hours. He will put some things behind, will 
e 
ss those already in a state of emotional and sensory atrophy, a 
t=. pass an invisible boundary; new, universal, and more liberal laws 
Bae 
: 
cohen 
ss machine is easier to get on with than a man. 
== will begin to establish themselves around and within him; or the 
fe is indeed the crux of the matter, and here it is that 
as 
: 
‘ 
s= old laws be expanded, and interpreted in his favor in a more liberal 
vulnerable. For as the elders point out, the posture of 
zs !tis the essentially dehumanized approach of the poverty program 
sense, and he will live with the license of a higher order of beings. 
periority is easy to maintain from the sidelines, particularly 
$3 which ensures that it cannot be successful. | am, of course, aware 
ss In proportion as he simplifies his life, the laws of the universe will 
one’s livelihood and education are being provided for by 
i: that there are many people within the poverty program whorartempt 
#2 appear less complex, and solitude will not be solitude, nor poverty 
But would the young do any better under the same circum- 
$$ to use its potential to benefit individuals, but they are fighting the 
ss poverty, nor weakness weakness. 
If you have built castles in the 
Will they do any better when their turns come? The 
tz basic thrust of the whole program and their efforts will always be f 
$5 air, your work need not be lost: that is where they should be. Now 
s that youth would not and cannot, given the financial and 
8 insignificant compared to the total size of the problem. The goal o 
33 put the foundations under them. 
amework within which the elders are operating. While 
ts the poverty program is not to.help people to find themselves but 
HH 
onvictions of individuals are important in the longrun, 
it 
&: 
rather to push them back into the industrial system just as fast and 
ss 
4 
as 
. 
on 
ns that determine the immediate course of events—— 
ss 
as often as they are forced out of it. 
rH 
> 
y the institutions of finance. 
HH 
i 
HH 
nspiracy, but defective financial institutions and the 
=: 
=: 
ive 
institutions have delivered us to the door of the 
=: 
a 
ss 
is book has attempted to present the a!terna- 
ss 
i 
missing logic of an industrial economy. 
rH 
: 
HH 
- 
= 
*, 
: 
< 
* 
os 
hd 
* 
« 
es 
