* 
4 
The Stress of Life 
It has been suggested that this book be reviewed with the thought 
in mind of its being included in the WEC. Now before going into 
the criteria 
for that, it should be stated that the entertainment 
value, or readability of this book is high. Further note that according 
to a quoted review the book “. 
.. is very readable. 
" You will 
experience “.. . Dr. Selye’s persuasive enthusiasm.” Yet another 
(not quoted in the book) says it can be read“... with considerable 
pleasure.’’ And thus spake (also sprach) the Library Journal: 
“J orchids upon this... incomparable exposition...” 
In the reading——this applies chiefly to the first 4/5ths of the 
volione——a word of advice is picked up from a review quoted in 
the book itself and credited to the 
American Journal of Public 
Health. 
The book, happily, does not contain “. .. amass of 
data of questionable relevance...” but the reader is cautioned 
to“... maintain balance amid Dr. Selye's persuasive enthusiasm” 
These words gain weight when one is apprised that they were 
written for the reviewing journal by Ancel Keys, one of this 
country's great physiologists. 
Now back to the WEC. 
The WEC states that the criteria for 
listing something in its pages shall be four in number, videlicet: 
1) useful as a tool, 2) relevant to independent education, 
3) high quality or low cost, and 4) available by mail. 
This 
book immediately meets criteria 3 and 4. 
Criterion 2 is a sort of double-barreled one that depends not only 
upon the nature of the book but also upon what the reader does 
with it. Dr. Selye epitomizes the relevance to independent 
education in his dedication: 
“This book is dedicated to those who 
are not afraid to enjoy the 
stress of a full life, nor too naive to 
think that they can do so without intellectual effort.” So let 
us now say that criteria 2, 3, and 4 have now been met. 
In order to determine tf the book meets criterion number one as 
well, let us first quote the author, “I... recommend that only 
physicians, or readers who are at least reasonably familiar with 
current problems of physiology and medicine, should read this 
book from cover to cover.”’ He directs the rest of us cats to 
first read Book V (the volume is divided into Books I-V incl.) 
in small installments of... ten to twenty pages ata time. Now 
it turns out that Book V contains “... the practical implications 
and applications of the stress concept in everyday life....” 
Hence, criterion number one is going to be met by the contents 
of Book V——a mere matter of 
52 pages——or it ts not going 
to be met at all. 
Let us now diverge a bit. “The main purpose of this book is to 
tell... what medicine has learned about stress.” It should be 
noted in passing that there is a glossary at book’s-end to help out 
on the technical terms. 
The main subject of the book is the G.A.S. 
(general adaptation syndrome) which comes to be called the stress 
syndrome; and, conversely, the stress syndrome, J suppose, may 
be said to bea GAS. 
First, one should mention that a syndrome is 
merely a collection or constellation of related signs and symptoms 
which is characteristic of a disease or condition of malfunctioning. 
The G.A.S. is the sum-total of all non-specific changes that occur 
in the body during the time it is being acted upon by a stress- 
producing agent (stressor.) These non-specific changes occur in 
three stages, 1) alarm, 2) résistance, and 3) exhaustion. Number 3 
eventuates, if it continues, in death. Most stresses are only severe 
enough to produce stages 1 and 2. Going through 1 and 2 repeatedly 
in one’s lifetime constitutes “adapting” to things. 
Various degrees 
of failure to adapt, Selye says, result in various disease or degen- 
erative conditions. 
Star Maker 
A man’s consciousness unwillingly departs his body and his 
planet. Once in space he accomplishes willed travel in search 
of Star Maker. 
His journey takes him into the minds of other 
planetary beings; a company of these travel together and 
witness countless civilizations; eventually they participate 
in a combined consciousness of worlds that in time embraces 
the stars as well; this leads to galactic and cosmic consciousness 
and the culminating encounter with Star Maker. 
Jordan Belson, who | trust in these matters, asserts that it is 
a true vision, that Stapledon’s whole life pointed at attaining 
it, and that the book will be used and discussed for centuries. 
This Dover edition has an earlier 
Stapledon story, “Last and 
First Men,” which Jordan considers negligible. 
The Age of Discontinuity 
How come Peter Drucker has so much good sense and 
perspective, and still remains so cheerful? Traditionally 
considerations such as his—economics, organizations, the 
future—turn a prophet’s soul terrible and dark or at least 
partially wiggy. The only other intact floater on this ocean 
! know of is Marshall McLuhan. 
You sense that both of 
them have a backyard in their mind that resides somewhere 
else, some time else. 
(/[t would be worth pursuing this. 
How To Think Big and Stay Sane.) 
The Age of Discontinuity takes notice of the remarkable 
continuity of the last 50 years in building on the 
technological breakthroughs of the Victorian era. Now, 
says Drucker, we are in for some hard changes, particularly 
around new technologies (of information, materials, oceans, 
megalopolis), global economics, and redistribution of 
responsibility in large organizations. 
Now to get back to the question of criterion number one——the use 
of the book asa tool. Up to page 258 it is not useful as such to the 
general reader. Sclye says, “All we have said up to now helps to 
guide treatment on the part of a physician,” and“... even dietary 
treatment must be controlled by a competent physician. All this book 
can do in this respect is to help the patient understand why his 
physician prescribes a certain regimen; it could not presume to be an 
adequate preparation for self-treatment along such purely medical 
lines.’ BUT, “... there are many things I have learned from the _ 
sludy of stress, which the physician cannot use but the patient can. 
I particularly want to share these lessons with you. ... 
" OK, 
reader, you are now on your own, and you will indeed find out 
that criterion number one ts met. 
[Reviewed by R. D. Chamberlain, M.D.] 
The Stress of Life 
Hans Selye, M.D. 
» 1956; 324 pp. 
$2.75 postpaid 
from: 
McGraw-Hill Book Co. 
Princeton Road 
Hightstown, N. J. 08520 
Manchester Road 
Manchester, Mo. 63062 
8171 Redwood Highway 
Novato, CA 94947 
The Stress of Life 
Hans Selye,M.D. 
& 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Stress is essentially the rate of all the wear and tear caused by life. 
{t will take a whole book to explain the complex mechanisms 
through which the body can reduce this type of wear and tear. But 
let me say here, by way of an introduction, that although we cannot 
avoid stress as long as we live, we can learn a great deal about how 
to keep its damaging side-effects to 
aminimum. 
For instance, we 
are just beginning to see that many common diseases are largely 
due to errors in our adaptive response to stress, rather than to 
direct damage by germs, poisons, or other external agents. 
In this 
sense many nervous and emotional disturbances, high blood pres- 
sure, gastric and duodenal ulcers, certain types of rheumatic, 
allergic, cardiovascular,.and renal diseases appear to be essentially 
diseases of adaptation. 
e 
The important difference between the discovery of America by the 
Indians, by the Norsemen, and by Columbus is that only Columbus 
succeeded in attaching the American continent to the rest of the 
world. 
It is not to see something first, but to establish solid connections 
between the previously known and the hitherto unknown that 
constitutes the essence of scientific discovery. 
Paracelsus (whose true, but somewhat bombastic, name was Theo- 
phrastus Bombastus von Hohenheim) was a famous Swiss physician 
who lived during the sixteenth century. 
In his treatise on ‘Diseases 
Which Deprive Man of his Reason,” he stated that ‘‘the best cure 
and one which rarely fails is to throw such persons into cold water.” 
Disease is not mere surrender to disease, but also fight for health; 
and unless there is fight there is no disease. 
Last and First 
Men & 
ni toaged epanya 
; 
lovely than any jewel. 
ethereal. 
Star Maker 
Olaf Stapledon 
1937; 188 pp. 
$2.50 postpaid 
from: 
Dover Publications, Inc. 
180 Varick Street 
New York, N. Y, 10014 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The Age of Discontinuity 
Peter Fe Drucker 
1969; 401 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid 
§ 
from: 
Harper & Row 
49 East 33rd Street 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Since the computer first appeared in the late 1940's the information 
industry has been a certainty. But we do not have it yet. We still 
do not have the effective means to build an “information system.” 
This is where the work is going on, however, The tools to create 
information systems may already exist: the communications satellite 
and other means of transmitting information, microfilm and the TV 
tube to display and store it, rapid printers to reduce it to permanent 
record, and so on. There is no technical reason why someone like 
Sears Roebuck should not come out tomorrow with an appliance 
selling for less than a TV set, capable of being plugged in wherever 
there is electricity, and giving immediate access to al! the information 
needed for schoolwork from first grade through pices 
“But she never explains. You have to work things out yourse! 
: interpretation we are quite certain——although they may turn c 
The sheer beauty of our planet surprised me. 
It was nacrous, it was an opal. 
Its patterned colouring was more subtle, more 
\t displayed the delicacy and brilliance, the intricacy and har- 
mony of alive thing. Strange that in my remoteness | seemed to feel, 
as never before, the vital presence of Earth as of a creature alive but 
tranced and obscurely yearning to wake. 
What is disease——not any one disease, just disease in gene al? 7 
r 
question lingered on in my mind, as it undoubtedly has 
of most physicians of all nations throughout history. ‘But: 
no hope of an early answer, for nature——the source of all kn 
ledge——rarely replies to questions unless they are put to her i 
form of experiments to which she can say “yes” or “no.” SI 
not loquacious; she merely nods in the affirmative or in 
negative. ‘‘What is disease?’”is not a question to which one 
cai 
reply this way. 
* 
Occasionally, if we ask, ‘What would you doif..,? xe 
‘or, “1 
is in such and such a place?” she will silently show you a pictur 
first, aided only by instinct and the feeble powers of the human 
brain, until you can ask precise questions, to which nature ca 
answer in her precise but silent sign !anguage of nods and pict 
Understanding grows out of a mosaic of such answers. It isu 
to the scientist to draw a blueprint of the questions he has to as! 
before the mosaic makes sense. 
stat 
e 
Fortunately, it is not so much the existence of things that we do 
know, or about which we are too uncertain, that handicaps ou 
to be false. Lack of equipment, or even lackeia@f knowledge, is 
less of a handicap in original research than an overabundance of © 
useless materials or useless (and sometimes false) information | 
w 
clutters up our laboratories and our brains. 
The term adaptation energy has been coined for that which is 
consumed during continued adaptive work, to indicate that i 
thing different from the caloric energy we receive from food; 
this is only a name, and we still have no precise concept of what — 
this energy might be. Further research along these lines would 
seem to hold great promise, since here we appear to touch uno 
the fundamentals of aging. 
LEVEL OF NORMAL 
t 
RESISTANCE 
: 
é 
' 
‘ 
' 
AR. 
S.R. 
drops ee normal again. 
° 
Adaptability can be well trained to serve a special purpose, but 
eventually it runs out; its amount is finite. 
The fact is that a man can be intoxicated with his own stress — 
hormones. 
| venture to say that this sort of drunkenness _ 
has caused much more harm to society than the other kind. 
. It is not easy to tune down when you have reached you 
€ 
quota. Many more people are the helpless slaves of their own 
— 
stressful activities than of alcohol. Besides, simple rest is no ct 
all. Activity and rest must be judiciously balanced, and every 
person has his own charac teristic requirements for rest co 
active man. 
It was a huge pearl, set 
No, it was far more 
e 
The sport of disembodied flight among the stars must surely be € 
most exhilarating of all athletic exercises. 
It was not without de 
but its danger, as we soon discovered, was psychological, not ph 
In our bodiless state, collision with celestial objects mattered 
little. Sometimes, in the early stages of our adventure, we plun 
by accident headlong into a star. 
Its interior would, of course, 
inconceivably hot, but we experienced merely brilliance. _ 
The psychological dangers of the sport were grave. We spearas ( 
that disheartenment, mental fatigue, fear, all tended to reduce o1 
ers of movement. More than once we found ourselves immobile i 
by this plight that there was no possibility of moving till, ha 
experienced the whole gamut of despair, we passed through indi 
ference and on into philosophic calm. 
; 
e 
Almost certainly, the star’s whole physical behaviour is norm Ihy 
experienced as a blissful, an ecstatic, an ever successful pursuit of 
— 
formal beauty. This the minded worlds were able to discover thré 
their own most formalistic aesthetic experience. In fact it was 
through this experience that they first made contact with Stel 
mind. 
@ 
} 
| said, ‘It is enough, and far more than enough, to be the creatu: 
dread and lovely a spirit, whose potency is infinite, whose nati 
the comprehension even of a minded cosmos. 
It is enough to! 
created, to have embodied for a moment the infinite and tum 
creative spirit. 
It is infinitely more than enough to have been 
have been the rough sketch for some perfected creation.” 
Yet though IBM is now shipping computers at a rate of a thous 
a month, we do not have the equivalent of Edison’s light bulb. 
What we are lacking is not a piece of hardware like the light bu 
What we still have to create is the conceptual understanding of — 
information. As.long as we have to translate laboriously every set 
of data into a separate ‘‘program,’’ we do not understand informatio 
We have to be capable of classifying information according to its 
oe 
characteristics. We have to have a “‘notation,” comparable to th eon e 
St. Ambrose invented 1,600 years ago to record music, that c 
re 
express words and thoughts i 
in symbols appropriate to electronic 
pulses rather than in the clumsy computer language of today. The 
each person could, with very little training, store his own data 
witt 
a general system, that i is, in what the | 
put ter engineers Se La 
“routine.” Then we ‘Shall have rae’ 
“info over 
wet on 
system saa 
