wr book is the best intro to the subject we’ve seen. For richer 
detail, | get Pribram’s two-volume Brain and Behavior (each 
: volume $2.95 from Penguin, 
7110 Ambassador Rd., 
_ Baltimore, Md. 21207). 
(Arts 
The Machinery of the Brain 
Dean E. Wooldridge 
1963; 252 pp. 
$1.95 postpaid 
from: 
} 
McGraw-Hill Book Co. 
- 
Princeton Road 
i 
Hightstown, N. J. 08520 
» Manchester Road 
Manchester, Mo. 63062 
~ 8171 Redwood Highway 
| 
Novato, CA 94947 
The Machinery 
of the Brain 
Dean E. Wooldridge 
«8 
= 
soor WHOLE 
EARTH 
CATALOG 
the | 
Ee 
eoton von Neumann and Shannon’s communi- 
cation theory, Gédel’s incompleteness theorem, and 
Viener’ Ss cybernetics. Blend, and see how far along we are 
oward a “biological mathematics”. 
The answer is not 
ar; this is a tidy survey of how far we aren’t. 
[Suggested by Dave Evans] 
Brains, Machines and Mathematics 
Michael A. Arbib 
1964; 152 pp. 
$1 .95 postpaid 
from: 
McGraw-Hill Book Co. 
Princeton Road 
lege a 
Hehetonn) Nod? 08820 
. ee 
ey 
. 
Manchester Road 
wm. 
een 
op 
; 
Manchester, Mo. 63062 
i aaa 
8171 Redwood Highway 
Novato, CA 94947 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
oma: 
Dream Psychology 
ary 
The 
latest word from a di verse group of psychia trists and 
I robably a very complete one, on what we know about 
fe 
seencrnevon of dreaming. 
Ter-ri-bly an-a-ly-ti-cal. 
Sagas 
; 
[Reviewed by Diana Shugart/ 
and the New 
Dream Psychology 
and the New Biology of Dreaming 
Milton Kramer, M.D., ed. 
1969; 459 pp. 
o 
$17. 00 postpaid 
MILTON KRAMER, 4.0, 
se 
; 
aS. 
ws 
harles C. Thomas, Publisher 
. 
327 East Lawrence Avenue 
EARTH CATALOG 
cS 
ek 
Body of corpus callosum. 
Thalamus 
Hypothalamus 
Cerebellum 
— Anterior lobe of hypophysis 
Spinal cord 
~~ Posterior lobe of hypophysis 
The optical mapping system of the human brain is of special interest 
and importance. Through the more than one million fibers of the 
optic nerve of each eye, the pattern of light and dark formed by the 
lens on the retina is transmitted to a specific set of neurons in the 
occipital lobes of the cortex. Although the picture that is produced 
by the pattern of voltages reaching these positions at the extreme back 
of the head is a highly distorted one, topological continuity is pre 
served, in the sense that adjacent points in the retina are represented 
by adjacent positions on the cortex. The application of an electric 
stimulus to any of these cortical points causes the subject to see 
flashes of light at the corresponding point of his field of view. 
Similarly, the illumination of the retina by a single bright spot of 
light results in the arrival of the usual train of voltage pulses at the 
Experiments have been reported with a six-month-old baby to deter- 
mine how many trials would be necessary to condition it against 
reaching out to touch the flame of a lighted candle. 
ment of course was so arranged as to block the child’s hand each 
time before injury was sustained.) The number of trials required was 
the same as for training the earthworm, approximately 150! 
(The experi- 
If monotonously repetitive stimuli are provided, such as a regular 
series of clicks or staccato tones, the nonspecific-brain-potential 
measurements will display the property of habituation: 
the pulse 
of brain potential induced by each audible stimulus will, with 
continuing repetition, gradually diminish and ultimately disappear. 
If we consider these nonspecific brain potentials as being somehow 
related to the degree of attention the subject is paying to the 
stimulus, their gradual decline correlates nicely with subjective 
experience: 
noises that initially interfere with concentration or ~ 
keep us awake may ultimately recede into the background of our 
consciousness and lose their effectiveness if they are monotonous 
and repetitive in character. Such habituation must be regarded as 
another basic form of learning. 
It is in effect a kind of negative 
learning, perhaps antonymous to the essentially positive learning 
of conditioned responses. 
Habituation is found throughout the 
Brains,Machines 
4. 
and Mathematics 
‘-* 
Michae! A.A bi) 
_ Dream Psychology 
Biology of Dreaming 
animal scale, from protozoa to man. 
The indication is that, as in 
the case of learning by conditioning, habituation derives from 
some fundamental property of nerve tissue and does not neces- 
sarily require special complex neuronal circuits.. 
corresponding spot of the visual cortex. 
|f subsequent work confirms the preliminary indications that pleasure 
and pain centers occur together, it will be interesting to learn what 
kind of pleasure is the negative of what kind of pain, in electrical 
neuronal terms. 
In these pages we coerce what is essentially still the mathematics of 
the physicist to help our slowly dawning comprehension of the 
° 
brain and its electromechanical analogs. 
It is probable that the dim 
beginnings of biological mathematics here discernible will one day 
happily bloom into new and exciting systems of pure mathematics. 
A, 
Retina of sensory units 
Associator 
units 
Response 
units 
Figure 2.5. 
Schematic of a perceptron. 
Reinforcement rules: 
There seems a great deal of evidence that 
humans have two kinds of memories——“‘short-term’”’ and “‘long- 
term.” 
It further appears that we have to retain an idea for quite 
a while in short-term memory before it is transferred into long- 
term memory. The time taken for this transfer has been variously 
estimated——one estimate is 20 minutes. 
It appears that if someone 
goes into coma, his memories of the 20 minutes or so prior to 
this are lost forever, i.e., they were not transferred to his long- 
term memory. 
It is now commonly believed that short-term 
memory is precisely that type of memory we gave our modular 
net——the passage of complicated patterns of electrical impulses 
through the net. 
It appears, then, that if such transient activity 
persists long enough it actually changes the net. 
| 
The Perceptron group has had three main modes of investigation: 
mathematical analysis, simulation on a digital computer, and 
construction of an actual machine. 
Each method has its own 
advantages. One important result of using an actual machine is 
that it has been found that nevther precision nor reliability of 
the components is important, and the connections need not be 
precise. 
Another interesting result is that the perceptron can “‘learn” 
despite trainer error. 
A dream is an evocation, not an event. 
Let me be bold enough to 
discuss the dream in terms which await experimental verification. 
As | see it, the dream reflects a function rather than serving one; 
passes through awareness as a result of biological energetics or 
work,’' rather than doing ‘‘work’’ itself; is an effect rather than a 
cause of the ninety-minute cycle——which itself reflects 
a homeo- 
Static mechanism that subserves the requirement for safely providing 
the organism sufficient periods of restorative sleep to insure sur- 
vival. Thus in my view, the dream does not exist in order to provide 
an outlet for the discharge of primary-process or instinctual energy; 
rather it represents an epiphenomenon of that fundamental period- 
icity, as yet poorly understood, which perhaps is basic not only to 
the maintenance of sleep during the night but also to the maintenance 
of alertness during the day——a periodicity with feedback character- 
istics being the stuff of which all homeostatic mechanisms are made. 
Despite the temptation to do so, we shall not be likely to unravel the 
basis for this periodicity until the precise nature of the sleep require- 
ment itself is defined. 
It ismy opinion that some nightdreams have the 
same purpose as some daydreams; namely, to 
provide some entertainment for oneself, and | 
suspect that dreams are not as involuntary as 
Dr. Ullman seems to say. 
| can recall, as a small 
child, how curious and fascinating | found my own 
dreams and how | looked forward to having them. 
Dreaming seemed so much more pleasant than 
spending the whole night doing nothing. 
With due regard for methodological considerations, which are 
recounted along with other experimental details in our already- 
cited research report, we compared 120 home dreams from twelve 
male subjects with the same number of their laboratory dreams 
drawn equally from the first three REM periods of the night. 
These two sets of dreams were scored, with minor changes and 
. 
additions, by means of the first versions of the later-to-be-refined 
Hall-Van de Castle scales. The major finding was that there were 
more sexuality and misfortunes-aggressions in the home dreams. 
Laboratory dreams, on the other hand, had more characters, more 
elements such as writing material and money that seemed to be 
related to the experiment, and more bizarre elements. One other 
interesting finding, in light of the necessity to explain these dif- 
ferences, was that dreamers were more likely to be involved in 
aggressive interactions in home dreams while in laboratory dreams 
they were more likely merely to witness aggressive interactions. 
