- sig hay to the overall climate, and the book analyzes, 
_in some detail, the relation of soil, water, vegetation, 
; topography, man and animals to the microclimate. 
un . 
; 
: 
[Suggested by Steve Baer] 
- The Climate Near the Ground 
f- Rudolf Geiger 
1966; 611 pp. 
beS 1 1.50> postpaid 
- 
_ from: 
y 
Harvard University Press 
_ 
79 Garden Street 
_ Cambridge, Mass. 02138 
CLIMATE 
- 
NEAR THE 
GROUND 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The overturning on a grand scale of superheated layers of air close 
to the ground is an exceptional occurrence, accompanied by dust 
devils and sand devils. The upward swirling of the air drags with 
Be © ‘it dust, sand, leaves, twigs, paper, and so forth, and therefore 
~ becomes visible. Wandering off, usually slowly, it sucks other 
overheated layers into its orbit and so maintains itself. 
In arid 
i zones of the earth, dust devils are a regular feature of the hot 
__ hours of the afternoon. 
_ Asa last example of the small-scale effect of sunshine, we shall 
_ take the compass plants, which have been studied in detail by 
__H.Schanderl. These plants have an inherited ability to place 
their leaves in any desired plane by rotating them. The wild 
“lettuce (Lactuca scariola) protects itself against the strong 
reflected radiation from the wall in front of which it is growing 
_ by placing its leaves in the ‘’transverse compass position.”’ All 
leaves are so positioned as to receive a minimum of reflected 
radiation. 
| 
e 
Men are also forever creating new kinds of microclimate. Every 
building constructed displaces the original climate of its site 
creating a warm, sunny, and dry climate with a southern exposure 
‘on the one hand, and a shady, cold, and damp northern climate 
on the other. Industrial works are shrouded with thick haze 
which alters the whole radiation economy. 
Suu seneavesausse: 
Seessesensene 
__ This guide catalogs several hundred tools, all manufactured or 
_ distributed by CeCoCo (Central Commercial Co.), and all 
applicable to what they term “cottage industry”. In quaint 
English translation CeCoCo editors spel! out the small scale 
_ cottage industry concept: 
_ Small-Scale Cottage Industry belies its name by providing 
a large proportion of all industrial employment and 
- accounting for the great majority of all industrial 
establishments. However, it is often asked whether such 
industry can survive and perform a useful function in the 
highly industrialized regions of the world, and what its 
lace should be in the economic plans of developing 
countries. Analysis of the exact nature of the problems 
facing small-scale industry and of the way in which it is 
adapting itself to meet them. Far from being moribund, 
small-scale industry is a dynamic force with a valuable 
role to play in the modern economy of both highly 
_ industrialized regions and developing countries. 
4 - 
In almost all developing countries in the world, there are 
of 
38 
determined efforts to achieve material economic progress 
and emphasis 
is being carried out to induce a shift in the 
‘ 
structural pattern of the economy from one basically 
___ 
agricultural to one that is agro-industrial in character 
om 
to assure an increasing ievel of national production within 
the framework of economic and social stability which does 
not require much of foreign exchange to insure its growth. 
_ That is very important to select such industries which do 
not need foreign exchange in obtaining raw materials. 
- The high cost of living in the urban areas, nevertheless 
_ reduces the workers’ real income. Money incomes in the 
rural areas is lower than those in cities but the cost of 
living is equally lower compared with urban living. The full 
= 
development of cottage industry in the rural areas, can 
provide additional forms of incomes on the part of 
tural families, which could reduce the influx of 
population to cities in quest for employment. This 
ultimately would minimize social problem in urban 
Wrenters. 
: 
_ The tools listed in this catalog are absolutely fascinating. One 
_ spends hours studying specifications, diagrams and photos of 
- CeCoCo “making” machines. 
(In the Wire Products section, 
_ for instance, one finds Paper Pin Making Machine, Staple 
_ Pin Making Machine, Hair Pin Making Machine, Safety Pin 
_ Making Machine, Snap Button Making Machine, Nail 
Making Machine, Barbed Wire Making Machine, Chain 
Maki ing Machine, Zip-Fastener Making Machine, Etc.) 
+b 
eCoCo was established i 
in 19 ie but refers to an association” 
sees photos of dignitaries from all countries of 
d visiting CeCoCo center. 
* 
‘iy 
means 4, 
i ie a 
is 
eee op 
= 
a) 
The risk of bringing about a deterioration of climate by human 
_ intervention depends on the type of climate, and is greatest where 
plant life is fighting for its existence because of a shortage of water 
or heat. 
!t is possible for very limited intervention into the water 
balance to produce far-reaching results in the bordering regions 
of arid zones. Great ‘‘regeneration areas’’ have been laid out 
around the town of Broken Hill in Australia, the great mining 
center for silver, lead, and zinc, situated in the middle of arid 
desert land. Wise foresight indicating that the original sparse 
vegetation in the area would have to be removed by the inhabi- 
tants, a comparatively luxuriant type of vegetation was grown in 
surrounding fenced-in and irrigated areas, improving the climate 
of the town, providing recreation spaces, and offering protection 
against dust storms in summer. 
HEAT GAIN <<4}>> 
Loss OF HEAT 
Incoming solar radiation 
EARTH 
[ si I 
2 
° 
AS A WHOLE 
Outgoing 
tadiation 
ATMOSPHE 
RE 
ENS, 
radiation 
_ Scale _ 
55 
Heat transported by 
a 
Short-wavelength radiation _] 
Long-wavelength radiation (—) 
Water vapor =) 
Eddy diffusion i= 
Direct solar 
radiation 
EARTH'S SURFACE 
Fig, 117, Annual balance of the planet Earth, of the atmosphere, and of the earth’s surface, 
Irrigation has a double purpose: 
to further the optimum growth 
of plants by giving them the supplies of water they need, and to 
increase air humidity during the hottest hours of the day ina 
dry period; this has the effect of reducing, as far as possible, the 
Passive transpiration of the plant, which is its method of protec- 
ting itself against high temperatures, but which makes unnecessary 
demands on energy. The first of these aims is achieved by watering 
at night, the second by watering during the day with as fine a spray 
as possible. The period of watering, its duration, the quantity and 
temperature of the water must all be adjusted to suit the type and 
age of the fruit to be protected, and the weather at the time. 
Irrigation techniques must therefore go hand in hand with micro- 
climatology. 
The microclimate of greenhouses is also influenced by the way 
they are built and used. Those built in an E-W direction have been 
shown to be superior to those lying N-S in the winter and in the 
transitional seasons of European climate. Steep glass roofs are 
also better in winter than flat ones. The position and number of 
the parts of the framework that cast shadows are also of impor- 
tance. The gardening glass, with its ability to scatter light, is pre- 
ferable to window glass, since it reduces the sharp contrast of light 
and shadow from the roof struts. Double glazing should be con- 
sidered for purposes of heat insulation in winter. 
Guide Book for Rural Cottage 
and Small and Medium Scale Industries 
158 pp. 
$7.00 seamail 
$10.00 airmail 
from: 
CeCoCo 
Ibaraki City 
Osaka Pref. 
Japan 
“CECOCO” MOTORLESS HYDRO-HI-LIFT PUMP 
‘This particular pump will raise water by the-power caused by means 
of declivity of water-flow-up to the height 30 times of water head and 
Operates automatically without any motive power such as gasoline, 
other fuel oils and electricity and no attendance for operation is 
necessary. 
It is extensively used in Japan for water supply at home, 
and field for irrigation, spraying and water reservoir on the top of 
mountain and hill. 
PRINCIPLE: 
In order to raise the water automatically by multiplied 
power of (1) the water hammer pressure leading pipe installed with a 
slight inclination and (2) the specific gravity with effectivity of the 
air in the delivery pipe taken in by the negative pressure (Vacuum) 
caused by the reactional flow of the water hammer pressure. 
HOW TO INSTALL: Although it is motorless, it has to have a flow of 
water as the source of power to operate the pump and the “’head”’ is 
absolutely necessary. 
During operation, proportionate amount of 
water to be delivered, therefore it must have drainage. The gist of 
such parts are: 
(1) Head 0.5—4 meter for small type and 1—8 meter for large 
type is considered to be the best for practical use. 
(2) Leading Water Pipe: The length of leading pipe is, for practical 
use, approximately 8 times of the Water Head and the pipe must 
be kept straight. 
It needs to be hard, therefore it is advisable to 
use steel pipe. 
(3) Delivery Pipe: The size of the delivery pipe is half in diameter of 
the leading pipe. 
(4) Drain Well: 
Valve opens, it is necessary to install Drain Well. Also, in order 
to take the air, make the water level of drain well equal to red 
line marked on discharging mouth. 
(5) Discharging Water: 
!t may be drained out into well or culvert or 
any other suitable equipment. 
Dison pea 
ND I| 
} | 
Pump-up pipe 
Installation of Pump 
Water pool 
Outlet valve: 
Adjusiment of 
striking, 
= 
SAS 
ES 
\ 
“\ 
PRN 
SY 
\ \ 
' 
Ourler a AN 
= ae 
re ark 
In order to cause counter current at the moment Drain 
Village Technology 
VITA (Volunteers for International Technical Agsistance) is 
the only source of specific practical information on small- 
group technology that we’ve found. But what a source. 
They have prepared the “Village Technology Handbook” 
for overseas use by the U. S. 
Agency for International 
Development that is ideal for rural intentional communities. 
VITA has a series of specific papers that cost very little (e.g. 
30¢.). 
Titles include “Low Cost Development of Smal! 
Water-Power Sites,” “How to Salt Fish,” “Making Building 
Blocks with CIN VA-Ram,” “Solar Cooker Construction 
Manual.” 
VITA also has a domestic program called VITA-USA that 
provides free technical assistance to individuals and groups 
working in or with low-income communities and individuals. 
[Suggested and Reviewed by 
Keith R. Prior] 
Village Technology Handbook 
1970; 400 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
VITA 
College Campus 
Schenectady, N. Y. 12308 
VILLAGE 
TECHNOLOGY 
HANDBOOK 
Who may apply for VITA aid 
Requests for assistance are encouraged from any individual, or 
from any private, community, or government sponsored, anti- 
poverty enterprise. 
Inquiries are welcome from community- 
action agencies, neighborhood councils, members of VISTA, 
small businessmen, model cities programs, and other self-help 
developments, urban or rural, public or private. 
How to Apply 
Please follow these directions in your letter of request for aid. 
1. Describe your project in detail. 
helpful. 
List any special requirements, or limitations that apply. 
Indicate deadline for action; also urgency of project. 
If project requires an on-the-spot consultation, please add 
reasons; also estimated days required, and most convenient 
dates for visit. 
Include rough sketches when 
pA 
3. 
4. 
5! 
Be sure your letter shows complete address, zip code and telephone 
number. 
Indicate your affiliation with an agency or business, if any. 
Describe results and benefits expected. 
Mail your request to: 
VITA-USA 
College Campus 
Schenectady, N. Y. 12308 
Telephone: 518-372-5696 
* 
The Construction Bargaineer 
The Construction Bargaineer lists surplus and used 
contractor’s equipment. Here is where you can get used 
military trucks, bulldozers, tires, cable, wire, and just 
about anything you can imagine a contractor using. The 
prices seem good to me. Personally, |’d beware of 
tying up a lot of money in equipment unless you 
need (rather than want) it, though there are many things 
in this catalog that could be useful to a commune. 
[Reviewed by J. Baldwin] 
Catalog 
WIRE ROPE 
$4.00 /year (24 issues) 
SNATCH BLOCKS 
f 
: 
Block Size 
Sale Price 
The Construction Bargaineer 
Cee 
co: eR $ 9.75 
P. O. Box 1061 
Oma read 
14.50 
St. Paul, Minn. 55105 
Quer. 
= nee 
24.50 
OMe 
eal eae 
32.90 
HYDRAULIC 
Hi-Lift 
EXCELLENT? 
ARMORED CAR 
4 Man Platform 
Armor Plate - 4x4 
¢ 5 Ton-6x6 
Bullet Proof 
e 60’ Reach 
$750°° 
*$12,500 
3/8" LOAD BINDERS 
- Made In is AL. é 
16,200 Ib. Cap. - Weight: 7 Ibs. Each 
NEW! 
6 For'$34.00 
eles 
