aa 
frill © 
CG 
ee 
ht | 
wx 
Ww 
(a) 
(c) Hyperia galba. 
A paradigm classic. Everyone dealing with 
- growth or form in any manner can use the 
book. We've seen worn copies on the shelves 
of artists, inventors, engineers, computer 
systems designers, biologists. Would one of 
you do a thorough review of D’Arcy Thomp- 
son’s venerable book for the 
CATALOG? 
Fig. 143. (a) Harpinia plumosa Kr.; (b) Stegocephalus inflatus Kr.; 
KI 
La 
WANS 
ESE 
When Plateau made the wire framework of a regular 
. tetrahedron and dipped it in soap-solution, he ob- 
tained in an instant a beautifully symmetrical system 
of six films, meeting three by three in four edges and 
these four edges runniga from the corners of the fig- 
ure to its centre of symmetry. Here they meet, two 
by two, at the Maraldi angle; and the films meet 
three by three, to form the re-entrant solid angle 
which we have called a “‘Maraldi pyramid” in our 
account of the architecture of the honeycomb. 
The very same configuration is easily recognized in 
the minute siliceous skeleton of Callimitra. There 
are two discrepancies, neither of which need raise 
any difficulty. The figure is not rectilinear but a 
spherical tetrahedron, such as might be formed by 
the boundary edges of a tetrahedral cluster of four 
co-equal bubbles; and just as Plateau extended his 
experiment by blowing a small bubble in the centre 
of his tetrahedral system, so we have acentral bub- 
ble also here. 
Fig. 
This bubble may be of any size; but its situation (if 
it be present at all) is always the same, and its shape 
is always such as to give the Maraldi angles at its own 
_. four corners. The tension of its own walls, and those 
of the films by which it is supported or slung, all bal- 
ance one another. Hence the bubble appears in plane 
projection as a curvilinear equilateral triangle; and we 
have only got to convert this plane diagram into the 
corresponding solid to obtain the spherical tetra- 
hedron we have been seeking to explain. 
The geometry of the little inner tetrahedron is not less simple 
and elegant. Its six edges and four faces are all equal. The films 
attaching it to the outer skeleton are all planes. Its faces are spherical, 
(a) 
(b) 
Fig. 63. Diagrammatic construction of Callimitra. 
(a) A bubble suspended within, 
a tetrahedral cage; (6) another bubble within a skeleton of the former bubble. 
4 
and each has its centre in the opposite corner. The edges are circular 
ares, with cosine 4; each is in a plane perpendicular to the chord of'\\_ 
the arc opposite, and each has its centre in the middle of that chord. 
, 
Along each edge the two intersecting spheres meet each other at an 
angle of 120°. 
Fig. 150. Polyprion. 
151. Pseudopriacanthus altus, 
The engineer, who had been busy de- 
signing a new and powerful crane, saw in 
a moment that the arrangement of the 
bony trabeculae was nothing more nor 
less than a diagram of the lines of stress, 
or directions of tension and compression, 
in the.loaded structure; in short, that Na- 
ture was strengthening the bone in pre- 
cisely the manner and direction in which 
strength was required; and he is said to 
have cried out, ‘That's my crane!" 
Ae 
On Growth and Form 
D'Arcy Wentworth Thompson 
Two volume edition 
1917, 1952 
$27.50 postpaid 
Abridged paper edition 
1917, 1961; 346 pp. 
$2.75 postpaid 
from: 
Cambridge University Press 
510 North Avenue 
New Rochelle, N. Y. 10801 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
rN i 
WY 
a 
LO 
LKXSXK| 
Fig. 101. Crane-head and femur. 
After Culmann and J. Wolf. 
* 
The Tao of Science 
No high-minded bridging of East and West, this. Buta 
successful director of research showing how valuable an 
informed and experienced Taoist sense of harmony can 
be to the conduct of science. It can help balance the 
scientist, and it offers an avenue 
to balancing the appli- 
cation of what the scientist learns. Good medicine for 
~ over-specialization. 
The Tao of Science 
R. G. H. Siu 
1957; 180 pp. 
$1 .95 postpaid 
from: 
The M. |. T. Press 
50 Ames Street, Room 765 
Cambridge, Mass. 02142 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
It is as impossible to appeal to a neutral principle to determine the 
rationality of competing systems, as it is to invoke a neutral vocab- 
ulary to characterize alanguage. 
It is in the name of one kind of 
logic that one rejects the logic of another. Arnold Nash illustrated 
this “irrational prejudice” of reason very well in the story of a 
doctoral examination. The candidate, who submitted a study on 
Mormon history, was asked whether he, being a Mormon, 
regarded himself sufficiently unprejudiced to write a thesis 
on Mormon history. The student replied, ‘Yes, if you, not a 
Mormon, consider yourself unprejudiced enough to examine it.” 
An important difference exists between “‘having-no’’ knowledge and 
having ‘‘no-knowledge.’’ The former is merely a state of ignorance; 
the latter is one of ultimate enlightenment and universal sensibilities. 
To the confirmed rationalist, no-knowledge may appear to be the 
hugger-muggery of the mystagogue. 
Nevertheless, it is precisely 
its ineffability that lends force to its reality. The mysteries of 
nature appear to be mysteries only to those who refuse to participate 
in them. 
... 
With rational knowledge, the scientist is a spectator of nature. With 
no-knowledge, he becomes a participant in nature. There is 
acom- 
munion of understandings. He no longer shares that tragic suffering 
of many individuals, who ‘‘fear of finding oneself alone,”” as André 
Gide describes it, ‘‘and so they don't find themselves at all.”’ 
... This all-embracing applicability of no-knowledge makes it a 
valuable tool for the executive. 
It provides him with 
acommon 
ground of all situations. 
It is his means of transcendence over 
specific experience of which he has not yet tasted. Versed in 
no-knowledge, he is at home under otherwise strange conditions; 
he always finds familiar strains in his management of assorted 
enterprises. 
: 
- 
The scientific West adopts the positive method and the Taoist East 
the negative. In the positive method the item under question is 
intentionally pointed out and described. 
In the negative method, it 
is specifically not discussed. 
By not dissecting the ineffable x 
in question but merely restricting discourse to objects that it is 
not, the features of the x are revealed in our dim consciousness. 
Not only must the optimum be exhibited in quantity and space 
but also in time. According to Barnard, the art of executive 
decisions consists in ‘“‘not deciding questions that are not now 
pertinent, in not deciding prematurely, in not making decisions 
that cannot be made effective, and in not making decisions that 
others should make.” 
Relinquishing the intellectual throne for the life of a commoner is 
a hard chore for science after three hundred years of free ranging 
and a hundred years of lordship. We can fully appreciate her reluc- 
tance to make the sacrifice. Yet she should remember that when Christ 
asked the rich man to give what he had to the poor, he was not think- 
ing particularly about the poor. 
The efficient management of organized research also demands gusto 
and quickened action. ‘He who would train in the fortress of contem- 
plation,’’ as the saying of Gregory the Great goes, ‘‘must first train 
in the camp of action.’ 
It is only in participation that the final 
synthesis of knowledge can be embodied in a unitary attitude to 
life. A faulty execution of a sound plan generates no more beneficial 
an outcome than 
a sound execution of a faulty plan. Some 
executives have even gone so far as to say that nothing is right 
which does not work. 
This may be too extreme a pronouncement. 
Yet, of what service to humanity isa dream entombed? Unless 
results are effected, the dreamer will continue to share the bewilder- 
ment of the March Hare, who was trying to fix the Mad Hatter’s 
watch with butter in Alice in Wonderland. 
A\l he could say was: 
“And it was the best butter, too, the best butter.” 
