Deere 
tise 
oe 
Arcology 
If | get it right [and getting it at all is something: it takes 
either lots of work or none at all] Soleri sees the next step 
in evolution as man’s job. He sees that step manifested in 
an organism and that organism is the city. Soleri says that 
the first part of his book is the most important. But on 
— 
seeing the second part it’s very difficult to muster much 
time for the first part. It pays though, nicely. Soleri 
reters to Teilhard de Chardin in approaching the under- 
'standing of man as a cosmic problem by ascending from 
physics, chemistry, biology and geology. Western man 
_ must rise from his technology and one (I think) way is 
by being aware (of it) but ignoring it at the same time. 
The manifestation of a process like this is, | think, a series 
of drawings like that of the second part of the book. 
These 
drawings are like doorways, they’re of fantastic cities, 
wholly improbable but obviously, cosmically, possible. 
In fact, they are made real just by their presence in one 
place (the book) and by the interrelatedness of one project 
to the next, page to page, with seminal sketches appearing 
in the corners here and there. What’s most fascinating is 
the next obvious steps: the Cosanti buildings in Arizona 
and Arcosanti, about to begin. He’s not starting all at 
once, big money style but the way cities have always 
started: little by little. Like Nieuw Amsterdam on the 
tip of Manhattan Island or whatever city began at whatever 
river crossing or natural harbor, Soleri is beginning at a 
crossing of cosmic consciousness. 
[Reviewed by Ron Williams] 
Structure comes before performance. 
® 
There is then a profitable ground for 4earning about the cities of 
today by reflecting on the hypothetical and as-yet-unreal city- 
asteroid. For it the conditions are harsher, the problems more 
by 
packaged, the survival-success story more elemental, and the 
hypothesis slightly less human than one might desire. However, 
what is built in is not so much the fraud of simulation as the 
frugality of investigation. 
Lunacy is part of man’s burden. Thus, while man dies on 
earth through hunger and malice, he works feverishly at the 
2ncounter with the black naught of space. He will need out there a 
real machine for living. Man and his earthly morphological con- 
finement is a dead duck in space. He will be stuffed into a superlung, 
_ wrapped by superdigestive tracts, governed by superchemical brains. 
He will not look into the crystal ball; he will! be inside it. Life will 
be interiorized, not psychologically but physically: 
the life inside, 
hot the life on (the earth). The center or the axis of the machine 
will be the center of gravity. Man’s head will point at it, not his 
feet. 
Should man take with nim out there, beside his biological condition, 
anything else that has a biological flavor? He may have to, while 
nurturing his expectation for a non-biological self. He may have to 
for his physical and mental health. Miniaturization is the pass- 
word to the fantastic voyage. For along time symbolism will be 
the real context of space life, the testing of events to come and not 
necessarily of space events but of more pressing earthly problems—— 
the miniaturization of the performance of the human race on the 
space ship earth. 
- 
* 
Shelter and Society 
Almost all the books you ever see on architecture are 
concerned with monumental building, a result of the 
relationship between architects and wealthy patrons. 
Seldom do you see anything on buildings by the people, 
of local materials and in simple harmony with the 
_ surrounding landscape. 
Here’s an exception. On the cover is what at first glance 
appears to be a primitive Portuguese fisherman’s house. 
On closer inpsection, it’s a picture of one of Drop City’s 
domes, colorful, funky, having sprung from the trash of 
“_..a wasteful society.” 
70 types of dwellings are covered, by different writers. A 
comparison of the pueblo and the hogan, the walled city 
of Old Delhi, the Norwegian Laftehaus, Villages on the 
Black Volta, and a fine article by Bill Voyd on funk 
architecture at Drop City. Many of the photographs 
are too dark, but you won't find them elsewhere. 
~ 
/t’s more of a book on the functions of the buildings 
than on the external aesthetics. 
t 
e 
“All is as it should be", says one of the beings. 
| 
“Nothing is complete,” returns the other; “look at those 
creatures below this mountain, whom we see assembling, then 
J 
disbursing, looking about, and betaking themselves to shelter." 
___ From the Prologue to The Habitations of Man in All Ages 
eae Viollet-le-Duc, translated by Benjamin Bucknall, 
| Architect. 1876. 
1969; 167 pp. 
Arcology 
Arcology: The City in the Image of Man 
Paolo Soleri 
1969; 121 pp. 
$25.00 postpaid 
from: 
Cosanti Foundation 
6433 East Doubletree Ranch Road 
Scottsdale, Arizona 
or 
The MIT Press 
50 Ames Street, Room 765 
Cambridge, Mass. 02142 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
ear 
Novanoah | — Floating city for 400,000 
Asteromo is an asteroid for a population of about 70,000 people. 
It is basically a double-skin cylinder kept inflated by pressuri- 
zation and rotation on its main axis. The inner skin is the ground 
on which man walks. 
It is lined with vegetation for food and the 
carbon dioxide-oxygen cycle. (Unknowingly | arrived at some- 
where between 10 and 20 square meters of garden per person, the 
same order of magnitude considered by the Russian space scientists.) 
Asteromo 
Shelter and Society 
Paul Oliver, ed. 
$ 10.00 postpaid 
from: 
Frederick A. Praeger, Publisher 
111 Fourth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
$7.36 from Blackwell's (see p. 79) 
EXTRACTING AND HARVESTING INOUSTRIES 
Aas : 
The 
‘ hak x 
* 
, ay \N 
WINN 
Plan of Arcodiga (dam site) 
Ciyiye 
LLG, 
To introduce living and working into the masonry of the dam means 
to transform a monolithic, noncellular system into one that is 
articulated and cellular. For equal mass the cellular system, not 
randomly given but structurally conceived, is stronger because it 
allows selectivity of orientation and dimensionality. 
If one then considers the 1:7 ratio of redundance in the safety 
coefficient in the dams built in the United States, one can see the 
wealth of schemes that can effectively and magnificently trans- 
form the blind mass into a singing environment 
e 
Of all man’s activities, it is automated production that will move 
inside the earth’s crust. Efficiency, safety, compactness (minia- 
turization), and the use of the surface of the earth for other things 
will force automated production under the ground. Large systems 
are already set in many functional layers of different kinds, most 
of them for communication, transportation, and storage. Produc- 
tion will join them and then oust the transportation system, as 
this will move to various levels of the city. 
=o 
feS 
Ay 
THE POSSIBLE MINIATURIZED 
fam 
EXTINCT HOMINID! 
\ Pe 
} / Re INTO THE REAL. 
: 
ANIMAL KINGDOM 
J} 
@ = MINIATURIZATION OF THE REAL 
VEGETAL KINGoOn 
iy 
(EVOLUTIONARY PULSES) 
x 
Ir 
| 
4 
) 
fs 
See 
Dae 
tc 
4 
: 
att 
r 
NEO-MATTER 
| th 
\. 
\ 
\ 
\ \ | 
\ 
(ES THE TO ComPASSIGNATE STUFF) \ 
j 
ati 
LAND, SPACE, SBad) 
MINIATURITATION 
NICAL 
“AN 
a Dalal 
£0 
eee. 
SSS FUTURE 
? 
[L 
STUFF 
PRESENT 
== 
PAST 
TROTOHUMAN 
HINIATURIZATION 
(PROTO-BIOLOCICAL 
> TUFF) A 
Som Wr 
To the Egyptians, shelter for the dead was more important than 
shelter for the living; our factories, he argued, suggest that shelter 
for machines is better served today than that for men or gods: 
“Shelter seems, indeed, to have been a minor consideration in 
many of the early cultures.” 
For the very congruity and harmony which is so frequently a 
source of admiration and comment in architectural writings on 
vernacular shelter is evidence of the integration of the building 
in the life of the community as a whole. 
The close link between dwelling and land expressed in the resem- 
blance of the pueblo to a land-form seems to reflect the overall 
harmony of man and nature. The house is sacred, and so is the 
whole landscape and everything in it. Corn was more than a food, 
it was a symbol of life, and corn growing was regarded as a religious 
activity. Among the Tewa, for example, the greater part of religion 
centres around corn and, by extension, around agriculture in general. 
This attitude must influence the form of the pueblo and particularly 
its siting and relationship to the land; it helps to explain why the 
pueblo seems such an inevitable part of its surroundings. 
Sun movements and solstices are extremely important, being related 
to ceremonial cycles. The pueblo is carefully orientated: 
it is 
related both to mountains (‘‘Life comes from the mountains”) and 
to the six cardinal points and the sacred directions of East and North. 
19 
