_ Nomadics 
The Complete Walker 
Some of them old boys are into making houses out of 
chicken wire and condoms. Some of them can gather you a 
' One of the surest ways to tell an experienced walker from a beginner 
is the speed at which he starts walking. The beginner tends to tear 
away in the morning as if he meant to break every record in sight. 
By contrast, your experienced man seems to amble. But before long, 
and certainly by evening, their positions have reversed. The beginner 
is dragging. The expert, still swinging along at the same easy pace, is 
now the one who looks as though he has records in mind. One friend 
of mine, a real expert, says, ‘If you can’t carry on a conversation, 
When crowds assemble in Trafalgar 
Square to cheer to the echo the 
announcement that the government 
has decided to have them killed, they 
would not do so if they had all 
walked 25 miles that day. 
x 
: 
_ And the Lord said 
u 
thou? Then Satan 
answered the Lord, and © 
said, From going to : 
fro in the earth, and 
from walking up an 
Bertrand Russell 
Aswn nie 
Nobel Prize Acceptance Speech 
salad right off the forest floor. Some can make you a 
computer out of old Stromberg-Carlson radio parts and have 
enough wire and tubes left over for two laser death rays and 
a UFO. But Colin is into walking. His two previous books 
are mainly about walks: In THE THOUSAND MILE 
SUMMER 
he tells about one he took up the entire Sierra 
range, and in THE MAN WHO WALKED THRU TIME, he 
walks the whole Grand Canyon. 
This one is about walking, 
not walks. |t’s not full of lore and woodsiness. 
/t doesn’t 
tell you how to get back to nature, or cast civilization from 
your back and wander out with a bowie knife and a jock- 
strap. It gives a little walk philosophy, and then proceeds to 
discuss, in just the right detail, how to put a nice little well- 
equipped house and its fittings on your back, how to be able 
to go out and walk for a long time without having to come 
back for more stuff. 
Besides just the stuff, what to taxe and what to leave behind, 
it also takes you on a trip through Colin Fletcher, which is 
quite an outing all by itself. 
It’s hard to imagine a book on 
backpacking technique that will make you laugh out loud all 
the way through, but he does it. He really loves poking fun 
at himself. He gets completely hung up describing some 
gadget or technique which he then admits he’s never tried. 
He’ll spend a whole page defending what seemed at first an 
impossibly fussy personal idiosyncracy, and at the end you‘ll 
be dying to go out and try it for yourself. He actually has a 
sizable section on how to urinate and defecate in the out- 
doors, and it’s a fine description. He includes a very complete 
appendix on suppliers, a list of walking organizations, and 
even a series of inspiring quotations to read while walking or 
thinking about walking. 
Most important, though, its the only backpacking book I’ve 
ever seen which, if read carefully, will actually te// you how 
to do it in great enough detai/ to enable vou to just go out 
and do it. It’s also the only one that will really make you 
want to go out and walk for absolutely no ulterior motive. 
Be sure to dig pages 45-52, 123-132, 182-186, 213-218, the 
whole Furniture and Appliances section, and all the illustra- 
tions. 
— 
' you’re going too fast.’ 
The Complete Walker 
Colin Fletcher 
1969; 353 pp. 
$8. 18 postpaid from: 
or $7. 95 postpaid 
The joys and techniques 
of hiking and backpacking 
Colin Fletche 
author 
of The Maw Whe Walhed Phare 
Prene 
At this point, steam issues from the stew pot. You reduce the heat to dead-low or thereal 
(taking care not to turn the stove off in the process), stir the compound a cotiple of times, 
appreciatively and replace the cover. While dinner simmers toward fruition you empty 
tw 
ounces of dehydrated peaches and a little water into the small cooking pot and put it read 
breakfast, up alongside the pack. Then you jot down a few thoughts in your notebook, st 
stew and sample it, find the beans are not quite soft yet. So you study the map and wo 
about the morning's route, put map and pen and pencil and eyeglasses and thermometer i 
bedside boots, take off your shorts and slide halfway down into the mummy bag out of the 
and stir the stew again and find all ready. You pour-and-spoon out a cupful, leaving the 
bala 
on the stove because the wind is blowing distinctly cool now. And then, leaning comfortab 
back against the pack and watching the sky and the black peaks meld, you eat, cupful 
by 
your dinner. You finish it—just. Then you spoon-scrape out every last possible fragment ind 
polish-clean the pot and cup and spoon with a piece of toilet paper. You put the paper 
undet 
the stove so that you can burn it in the morning. Then you put cup and spoon into the 
bre: 
fast-readied smal! pot, pour the morning tea water into the big pot, set the big pot alongside 
1 
small one and the sugar and milk containers alongside them both, put the current day’s ra 
bag into the pack (where it is moderately safe from mice and their. night allies) and» » + 
Office-on-the-yoke 
Because I so often walk without a shirt and therefore without 
Alfred A. Knopf, Inc. 
33 West 6Oth Street 
New York, N. ¥Y. 10023 
from WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The only adverse comment | would make is that his food 
preferences seem pretty sanpaku. But he also quotes the.old 
proverb about hel! being a place where the politicians are 
French, the police German, and the cooks English. 
[Reviewed by Roland Jacopetti] 
First remove any obvious and rectifiable local irritant, such as a 
fragment of stone or a rucked sock. Then cover the tender place. 
Cover it even if you can see nothing more than a faint redness, 
Cover it, in fact, if you can see nothing at all. Being a ‘hero’ is 
being a bloody fool. The covering may only be needed for a few 
hours; if you take it off at night and let the air get at the skin you 
may not even need to replace it next morning. 
But if you do 
nothing at the first warning you may find yourself inside the hour 
with a blister that will last a week. 
i 
Camping and Woodcraft 
How could anything written in 1916 
still be so useful? One, 
_ It isa masterwork, 
Two, in Kephart’s day when you went 
camping you really disappeared, so there’s a valid nostalgia 
i 
factor. But the main thing is, the book survives on its wealth 
, 
of specific practical lore. Game: find the information that 
is outdated, sort it from the information that is correct and 
available nowhere else, 
Tee votemes 
ix noe 
saeatins caompes's and travelers in the wildernxss. 
LE 
a 
CE 
Sr Sa 
Camping and Woodcraft 
Horace Kephart 
1917, 1921, 1967; 479 pp. 
from: 
The Macmillan Company 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, Burlington County 
New Jersey 08075 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
$6.95 postpaid 
ieladtg 
to, 
‘ 
: 
: 
Fig. 185—Splicing thongs 
ae 
wilderness life, need a diet rich in protein, fats (especially in cold 
a front pocket, I have had a five- by six-inch pocket sewn onto the 
front of my yoke strap, roughly where the shirt pocket comes. Into 
it go notebook and map, and sunglasses when not in use. Pen, pen- 
cil, camel-hair lens brush (page 233), and metal-cased thermometer 
(page 259) clip onto the front of it. I cannot imagine how I ever got 
There is a cardinal rule of travel, all too often 
overlooked, that | call the Law of Inverse 
Appreciation. 
It states: 
‘‘The less there is between you and 
the environment, the more you appreciate 
that environment.” 
along without such a pocket. Mine 
material, but anything stout will do. 
For which side to put your office, see page 64. 
Men working hard in the open, and exposed to the vicissitudes of 
weather), and sweets. This may not agree with theories of dieticians, 
but it is the experience of millions of campaigners who know what 
their work demands. A low-protein diet may be good for men lead- 
ing soft lives, and for an occasional freak outdoorsman, but try it 
onan army in the field, or on a crew of lumberjacks, and you will 
face stark mutiny. 
: 
@ 
Rabbits are unfit to eat in late summer, as their backs are then infested 
with warbles, which are the tarvae of the rabbit bot-fly. 
Green Corn.— If you happen to camp near a farm in the ‘’Roasting- 
ear’’ season, you are in great luck. The quickest way to roast an ear 
of corn is to cut off the butt of the ear closely, so that the pith of 
the cob is exposed, ream it out a little, impale the cob lengthwise on the 
the end of a long hardwood stick, and turn over the coals. 
@ 
Skilligalee.— The best thing in a fixed camp is the stock-pot. A large 
covered pot or enameled pail is reserved for this and nothing else. 
Into it go all the fag-ends of game — heads, tails, wings, feet, giblets, 
large bones — also the left-overs of fish, flesh and fowl, of any and all 
sots of vegtables, rice, or other cereals, macaroni, stale bread, every- 
thing edible except fat. This pot is always kept hot. Its flavors are 
forever changing, but ever welcome. 
It is always ready, day or night, 
for the hungry varlet who missed connections or who wants a bite 
between meals. No cook who values his peace of mind will fail to 
have a skilly simmering at all hours. 
e 
A woodsman, on the contrary, walks with a rolling motion, his hips 
swaying an inch or more to the stepping side, and his pace is corres- 
pondingly long. This hip action may be noticed to an exaggerated 
degree in the stride of a professional pedestrian; but the latter walks 
with a heel-and-toe step, whereas an Indian’s or sailor’s step is more 
nearly flat-footed. 
In the latter case the center of gravity is covered 
by the whole foot. The poise is as secure as that of a rope-walker. 
It is not nearly so much the ‘’make” of rifle as the load it takes that 
determines the gun’s shooting qualities. So, choose first a cartridge, 
then a gun to handle it. 
? 
Benptnc Woop.—Small pieces of green wood can 
be bent to a required form by merely soaking the 
ies 54.—Spenish Windlass (for bending wood) 
‘pieces for two or three days in water, but if it is 
desired that they should retain their new shape, they 
should be steamed. 
2 
reas 
"It is quite impossible to prepare a good 
meal 
ov 
_ melt everythin 
is made of ordinary blue-jean 
In Alaska, all animals leave for the snow-line as soon as the mosquii 
pest appears, but the enemy follows them even to the mountai 1 top 
above timber-line. Deer and Moose are killed by mosquitoes, which 
settle upon them in such amazing swarms that the unfortunate 
succum) from literally having the blood sucked out of their bodi a 
Bears are.driven frantic, are totally blinded, mire in the mud, an 
starve to death. Animals that survive have their flesh discolored all 
through, and even their marrow is reduced to the consistency 
¢ 
blood and water. The men who penetrate such regions are not 
kind that would allow toil or privation to break their spirit, bu 
become so unstrung from days and nights of continuous torment 
— 
inflicted by enemies insignificant in size but infinite in number the <h 
they become savage, desperate, and sometimes even weep in sheer 
— 
helpless anger. 
Bie 
- 
Z 
if 
77 
» 
ik 
cit Ta 
iy, 
5 
{ 
x 
Fig. 68.—A Masked Camp 
Trees and Lightning. — | have never seen, nor heard of, ab 
that had been struck 
by lightning, although beeches are plen 
many battle-scarred mountains where stricken trees 
of othe 
can be noted by the score. 
te 
y 
e 
i 
ae 
ee 
One glance at a camper’s fire tells what kind of 
< 
’ 
Mi 
chunks, a fierce blaze, or a great bed 
of 
| 
‘iar 
Dy 
2 
ROhid 
