f the three, Popular Science, Popular Mechanics, 
and Mechanics Illustrated, consistently the some- 
Whi it better is Popular Science. /t’s a good source 
ae urrent applied science reporting and base- 
technology. Most of the tool sources we 
rtise in the magazine. 
[Suggested by Jay Baldwin] 
| Popular 
Science 
ieee 
ge Popular Science 
I 
: $5.00 /yr. (monthly) 
~ from: 
Popular Science 
f 
Subscription Department 
| 
——- 
Boulder, Colo. 80302 
uper-Bipe STOL, with spectacular climbing ability, 
vastes no time getting airborne. 
oe 
F 
more useful tips from the magazine than any other technical 
Dhl 
eee 
: 
Science 
$12 /yr. (weekly) 
from: 
: 
American Association for the Advancement of Science 
1515 Massachusetts Avenue, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 20005 
. Our Fragile Environment 
The quality of the environment, ecology, and pollution problems 
have recently become matters of concern everywhere. My own 
‘personal explanation for this outburst of interest may be peculiar 
o. to myself, but | would like to know whether my explanation sounds 
a responsive chord in the minds of others. 
| date my own reawakening 
of interest in man‘s environment to the Apollo 8 mission and to the 
_ first clear photographs of the earth from that mission. My theory is 
that the views of the earth from that expedition and from the sub- 
oe sequent Apollo flights have made many of us see the earth asa 
whole, in a 
curious way——as a single environment in which hun- 
dreds of millions of human beings have a stake. 
| ‘One view in particular is awe-inspiring——with Africa in the fore- 
ground and the whole profile of the Mediterranean very clear. 
en 
stares at the whole Mediterranean, looking from outer 
much as in an atlas, but not as a drawing. Much of our 
t commonly taught history centers around that little sea, a 
atch of the hemisphere, which once seemed to its inhabitants 
e whole world. 
t the blackness beyond the sharp blue-green curve, 
ing to see even the place where the thin envelope of atmosphere 
earth meet, the curious word “fragile’’ comes to 
on the earth and think of it as fragile is ridiculous. 
e it from Qut There and to compare it with the deadness 
‘suspect that the greatest lasting benefit of the 
nay be, if my hunch is correct, this sudden rush 
A ry to save this fragile environment——the whole 
A new long-life, high-energy battery developed 
by the U.S. Army can be recharged as easily 
as 
popping 
bread 
mechanically rechargeable zinc-air battery 
doesn’t need special or lengthy charging. 
The basic unit is a flat zinc-air cell about 
the size of a five-pack of cigars. The cells 
are stacked in glass fiber battery cases to al- 
low circulation. 
A soldier in the field can 
recharge the battery simply by removing the 
long, narrow zinc anodes in each cell, drop- 
ping in new ones, and adding water. 
The 
battery is good for 100 such cycles. It is used 
for backpack radios and night-vision devices. 
John Caffrey 
American Council on Education 
a, 
; 
Washington, D.C. 20036 
Citroén Mehari, beefed-up for off-road racing, has 
roll cage, extra lights, rubber auxiliary gas tank. 
A superinsulation that grew out of the Apollo Space Program 
has been modified into a fabric that may open a new world of 
comfort for the outdoorsman. 
An aluminum coating reflects up to 80 percent of your body heat, 
but does not clog the pores of the fabric. The result is a free- 
breathing material that can make a garment up to 30 percent 
warmer with no significant increase in weight or bulk. 
The inside of the woven nylon fabric is mist coated via a vacuum 
deposition process with a layer of aluminum about one millionth 
of an inch thick. Then another substance is coated over the 
aluminum to protect it whenever the fabric is washed. 
The fabric is already available in a line of jackets made by McGregor 
and can be used in other types of clothing, and in tents and sleeping 
bags as well. 
The Norton Company, of Newton, Mass., makes the machine- 
washable material and another product, the Space Sportsman’s 
Blanket, of a similar fabric. The blanket material is non-breathing, 
however.—Herbert Shuldiner. 
into 
a 
toaster. 
The 
pole 
Meal 
Insert this new version of the Stickle- 
Dickle in your saber saw and you can 
cutin any direction. 
Its teeth spiralup 
the shank——for intricate scrollwork, justs' 
move the saw in the direction you want 
to cut. Coastal Abrasive Co., Trumbull, 
Conn. 06611, makes it. $2 at stores. 
In preparation for the next industrial revolution, | suggest that we 
revise our vocabulary. 
For instance, there is no such thing, no such 
person, as 
aconsumer. We merely use ‘‘things’’; and, according to 
the law of the conservation of matter, exactly the same mass of 
material is discarded after use. Thus, as the standard of living goes 
up, the amount of waste and consequent pollution must go.up. 
| believe we must base the next industrial revolution——a planned one 
——on the thesis that there is no such thing as waste, that waste is 
simply some useful substance that we do not yet have the wit to use. 
Industry so far is doing only half its job. It performs magnificent 
feats of scientific, technological, and managerial skill to take things 
from the land, refine them, and mass-manufacture, mass-market, 
and mass-distribute them to the so-called consumer; then the same 
mass of material is left, after use, to the so-called public sector, to 
be ‘‘disposed of.’’ By and large, in our society, the private sector 
makes the things before use and the public sector disposes of them 
after use. 
In the next industrial revolution, there must be a loop back from the 
user to the factory, which industry must close. 
|f American indus- 
trial genius can mass-assemble and mass-distribute, why cannot the 
same genius mass-collect, mass-disassemble, and massively reuse the 
materials? 
If American industry should take upon itself the task of 
closing this loop, then its original design of the articles would include 
features facilitating their return and remaking. 
If, on the other hand, 
we continue to have the private sector make things and the public 
sector dispose of them, designs for reuse will not easily come about. 
We industrial revolutionaries must plan to move more and more into 
the fields of human service, and not leave such concerns to the 
so-called public sector. We have seen our food supply grow to 
abundance in the United States, with fewer and fewer people 
needed to grow it. We are seeing the automation of factories, with 
an abundance of *‘things’”’ provided by fewer and fewer people. On 
the other hand, we have a shortage of human services and a shortage 
of people providing these services. 
It follows quite simply that, if 
private enterprise is not to dwindle, while the public sector grows 
to be an all-embracing octopus, then private enterprise must go 
into the fields of human service. 
—Athelstan Spilhaus, president, American Association for the 
Advancement of Science 
Mammalian evolution might be expected to be conservative and 
limited to a rate characteristic of the entire ecosystem. However, 
mammalian evolution has been explosive with respect to rate and 
diversity. 
| suggest that the conservative influence of social dominance is 
more than offset by other consequences of hierarchical behavior, 
and that social behavior is a major force in the evolution of mammals. 
Mammalian selection and evolution may occur to an important 
degree through the agency of socially subordinate individuals, and 
it is these individuals that will provide the genetic material involved 
in adaptation to new circumstances. 
John J. Christian 
Clearinghouse 
Its full name is “Clearinghouse for Federal 
Scientific and Technical Information,” 
it’s 
managed by the U. S. Department of Commerce, 
and it’s quite a service. All current unclassified 
R&D (research and development) done for or 
by the Government is available through 
Clearinghouse; this amounts to 30,000 new 
documents each year. Specific accesses are: 
U. S. Government Research and Development 
Reports (December 1,000 new documents 
twice a month), $22/year; Fast Announcement 
Service, for as many as 57 subject areas, 
delivered constantly, $5/year; and Technical 
Translations, twice a month, $12/year. 
These 
are indexes. Once you find what you want 
you order a paper copy (hard copy) for around 
$3 or micro-film (microfiche) for around $.66. 
The following examples of listings are from the 
Fast Announcement Service. 
[Suggested by Jon Dieges] 
ST — ANNOL Nt Ne 
Write 
UES 
for free information and order forms to: 
Department of Commerce 
Clearinghouse for Federal Scientific 
and Technical Information 
Springfield, VA 22151 
AD-691 231 -- THE INFORMATION THEORY ASPECT OF TELEPATHY, 
I, M, Kogan, U.S.S.R., 1969, translated from Russian, July 69, 26p. 
AD-677 116 -- A SOLAR- ILLUMINATED ALGAL PHOTOSYNTHETIC 
EXCHANGER, R. L. Miller et al., Martin Co., Denver, Colo., for the Air 
Force, June 68, 26p..... De: scribes a continuous culture system for study- 
ing the use of solar energy for algal growth and photosynthetic gas exchange. 
. 
. ORDER: 
PB-180 051 -- TRITON CITY - A PROTOTYPE FLOAT- 
ING COMMUNITY, Triton Foundation, Inc., Cambridge, Mass., for the Dept. 
of Housing and Urban Development, Nov, 68, 131p, 
BR Fuilecs 
Moatin 
erty 
AD-685 
047 -- WHAT IS MEMORY THAT IT MAY HAVE HINDSIGHT 
AND 
FORESIGHT AS WELL, H. Von Foerster, Univ. of Illinois, Urbana, 
for the Air 
Force, Jan. 69, 6lp..... Discusses the phenomenon of 
physiological memory from the viewpoint that memory is embeded into 
the totality of cognitive processes and considered as a computational 
operation rather than a storage and retrieval problem. 
AD-681 752 -- A FIFTEEN-YEAR FORECAST OF INFORMATION- 
PROCESSING TECHNOLOGY, G. B. Bernstein, Naval Supply Systems 
Command, Washington, D, C., Jan. 69, 187p....- Uses SEER (System 
for Event Evaluation and Review), a technique that incorporates the con- 
sensus of participatent experts, to produce a technological forecast of 
what is expected to occur in the information-processi \g industry. 
PB-180 665 -- THE INFLUENCE OF DESIGN ON EXPOSED WOOD IN 
BUILDINGS OF THE PUGET 
Northwest Forest and Range 
SOUND AREA, E, W. Schein, USDA, Pacific 
Experiment Station, Portland, Ore., Sept. 68, 
DUDS ‘oo <1 Identifies the best existing design solutions to exposure hazards, 
AD-680 168 -- SPIRAL GENERATION OF BUILDING SHELLS : OR 
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, A, N, Collishaw and R. D. Graham, Dept. of 
the Army, Ohio River Division Labs,, Corps of Engineers, Cincinnati, Ohio, 
spiral generation construction process to military construction, 
‘ncluded 
Discusses immediate and potential applications of the 
are permanent, semi-permanent, and temporary construction. 
PB-182 401 -- BUILDING CLIMATOLOGY, PART IV: NOISE, National 
Swedish Institute for Building Research, Stockholm, 1968, 86p..... 
Annotated bibliography of literature dealing with the following aspects of 
noise; 
(1) subjective reactions to sound, noise, and vibration, (2) objective 
methods of registering sound and noise, (3) noise situations, (4) fighting 
noise (technical and legal steps to,improve noise climate) and sound insu- 
lation, (5) acoustic planning, and (6) theory of sound propagation, 
AD-678 571 -- TAN-O-QUIL-QM TREATMENT FOR FEATHERS AND 
DOWN, G. Cohen, U.S. Army Natick Labs., Natick, Mass., Aug, 68, 80p. 
. 
. 
. Describes a process for treatment of feathers and down that uses a 
tanning agent and a water repellent and is applicable to both landfowl and 
waterfowl feather filling materials, 
Feathers treated by the process have 
increased filling power that is durable to laundering, are free from dust, 
are exceptionally clean, and will not develop an odor even when wet. 
AD-685 850 -- WATER SUPPLY IN COLD REGIONS, A. J. Alter, Cold 
Regions Research & Engineering Lab., Hanover, N. H., Jan. 69, 94p, 
i 
ohette-'s 
Discusses the influence of a cold environment on sanitary engineering works 
and services, water supply engineering in cold regions, and water supply 
during military field operations. 
Report includes a bibliography. 
AD-688 132 -- POLYURETHANE FOAMS: TECHNOLOGY, PROPER - 
TIES AND APPLICATIONS, A. H, Landrock, Picatinny Arsenal, Dover, 
N. J., Jan. 69, available in paper copy only, $15.50, 257p..... Discusses 
state-of-the-art of urethane foams. Topics covered are: 
chemistry of 
urethane foam process; types of polyurethane foam; methods of manufac- 
ture; toxicity of raw materials; adhesives and other methods of joining; 
surface coatings; foam properties; test methods; military and space ap- 
plications; economics and costs; comparative properties of other foams; 
specifications and standards; trade designations; and definitions of terms. 
Report includes a bibliography of over 700 references from the open 
literature, government 
and conference papers. 
Project and contract reports, commercial bulletins, 
AD-686 723 -- WIND SURFING--A NEW CONCEPT IN SAILING, J. R. 
Drake, RAND Corp., Santa Monica, Calif., Apr. 69, vx SAE Describes 
various board and sail configurations used in wini-surfing. The hand- 
held fully articulated sail is an entirely new means of propulsion and 
control. 
This one is great, a stand-up surfboard with a 
ball-joint flexible-boom sail. Surf in, then turn 
around and surf out. Design and instructions. 
|
