‘The Environmental Handbook 
es 
>. * 
; 
_ The Environmental Handbook as “the bible’ of New Con- 
_ servation. Paul Ehrlich, the others, as prophets predicting 
__ the literal end of the world. Ecology Action, the others, as 
young disciples working zealously to save it. The Survival 
_ Walk from Sacramento to L.A. as a modern version of the 
crusades. The public outcry against pollution as an evan- 
_ gelical call to cast out evil. San Jose State students actually 
_ burying a devil alive, in the form of a new Maverick. 
While Lynn White Jr. says: “Human ecology is deeply con- 
_ ditioned by beliefs about our nature and destiny——that is, 
_ by religion. ... 
The victory of Christianity over paganism 
was the greatest psychic revolution in the history of our 
_ culture. ... We continue today to live, as we have lived for 
_ about 1700 years, very largely in a context of Christian 
axioms, ... Christianity, in absolute contrast to ancient 
paganism and Asia’s religions... not only established a 
dualism of man and nature but also insisted that it is God’s 
will that man exploit nature for his proper ends. 
[Christians] are superior to nature, contemptuous of it, 
willing to use it for our slightest whim.” 
Conservation asking Christian America to quit being 
- Christian America, America saying can’t, | need the money. 
Psychie revolution. Beginnings of religious war. Christ a 
space-age anti-Christ. Battle in the cockpit. Veer left, 
_ veer right. 66,000 miles an hour. Offcourse! Quick! 
Somebody grab the wheel! 
[Reviewed by Gurney Norman] 
q _ The Environmental 
_ Handbook 
| 
Garrett De Bell, Ed. 
- 
1970; 365 Pp. 
Bs: 95, 
postpaid 
ae 
PREPARED FOR THE i 
oe pe 
Ahi 2.1970 
Ballantine Books, Inc. 
101 Fifth Avenue 
New York, 
N. Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH 
~ CATALOG 
The phrase “health of the environment” is not a literary con- 
vention. It has a real biological meaning, because the surface of 
_ the earth is truly a living organism. Without the countless and 
__— 
immensely varied forms of life that the earth harbors, | our planet 
_ ~would be just another fragment of the universe with a surface as 
_ drab as that of the moon and an atmosphere inhospitable to man. 
_ We human beings. exist and enjoy life only by virtue of the 
conditions created and maintained on the surface of the earth by 
the microbes, plants, and animals that have converted its 
_ inanimate matter into a highly integrated living structure. Any 
profound disturbance in the ecological equilibrium is a threat 
_ tothe maintenance of human life as we know it now. 
Rene DuBos 
= 
* 
es 
: 
, 
_ Ecotactics 
The Sierra Club’s new paperback, Ecotactics, was published 
__ two months after Friends of the Earth brought out The 
Environmental Handbook. The difference shows, but not 
enough to hurt. tf The Handbook hadn’‘t got there first, 
_ 
 Eeetacties would be a hot item indeed. It’s not quite as 
___ punchy as The Handbook but it’s got a /ot of good stuff 
__. init, most of it by ecology writers | hadn’t heard of before, 
which | consider a virtue. | mean, I’ve heard Paul Ehrlich 
and Rene DuBos and other big guns who appear prominently 
in The Handbook. / know what they have to say. It’s 
encouraging to see just how many good young writers the 
whole ecology thing is producing. Since both books cost 
only 95 cents, the serious ecology revolutionary by all 
__ means ought to have copies of each. They complement 
each other, sort of fill in each other’s holes. For example, 
The Handbook contains Gary Snyder’s now-famous 
environmental manifesto, “Four Changes,” while Ecotactics 
_ presents a short article about Snyder himself, as a man, a 
i poet and a naturalist. Both statements deserve wide 
_ audiences. So do both the books as wholes. 
ei Reviewed by Gurney Norman] 
_ 
To deal with a system of oppression and suppression, which charac- 
terizes the environmental violence in this country, the first priority 
is to deprive thé polluters of their unfounded legitimacy. Too often 
they assume a conservative, patriotic posture when in reality they 
are radical destroyers of a nation’s resources and the most funda- 
mental rights of people. Their power to block or manipulate 
_ existing laws permits them, as perpetrators, to keep the burden 
of proof on the victims. !n a country whose people have always 
valued the ‘‘open book,’ corporate and government polluters 
crave secrecy and deny citizens access to the records of that which 
-_ is harming their health and safety. 
e 
_< 
Youth must develop an investigative approach to the problems of 
pollution. 
It is one of the most basic prerequisites. Not only 
must there be a close analysis of corporate statements, and period- 
_ icals, annual reports, patents, correspondence, court records, 
regu iations, technical papers, Congressional hearings and: agency 
_ reports ; 
and transcripts, but there must be a search for the dissenting 
‘company engineer, the conscience-stricken house lawyer, the 
concern ed retiree or ex-employee, the knowledgeable worker 
es. cand the fé 
fact-laden ee petet of the industry or eemneny, under study. 
You can imagine hearing someone say, ‘’ Remember the subaivision 
that used to be where that orange grove is?’’ You can see a web of 
parks throughout the cities replacing the freeways and streets that 
once dominated. You can see agriculture become diversified again, 
with a great variety of crops grown together, replacing the old 
reliance on mass-produced single crop operations that are highly 
dependent on pesticides, machines, and cheap farm labor. The 
traditional American values of rural life come back, and many more 
people grow their own food on smaller holdings and with a better 
quality of existence for the farm workers——and for everyone else. 
More fruits and vegetables have insects on them instead of poisons. 
They can be brushed off or swallowed accidentally without harm. 
They are not mutagenic. They eat very little themselves, and 
because there is no monocrop, they can’t wipe it out. 
We see an end to some of the contradictions in American life. Where 
we once burned fossil fuels and polluted the air to provide electricity 
to run the escalators and other labor-saving devices that fattened us 
and sent us to the electric exercise machines and calorie-free soft 
drinks, we can rediscover walking. Where we overheated or over- 
conditioned our air, we rely again on the human adaptability to 
stress that shaped us and gave us our physical integrity over a million 
years of living. Although the small labor-saving devices did not use 
much power, their aggregate use increased the demand for electricity, 
and with it the need for more dams, more oxidizing of fossil fuel, and 
more proliferation of nuclear power plants and their radionuclides. 
We find that diminishing dependence upon electric devices diminishes 
the need to build dams on wild rivers, pollute the air and sea with 
fossil fuels, and poison the ecosphere with dispersing nuclear waste. 
With conspicuous consumption eliminated, we have more leisure time 
and a shorter work week. There are fewer automobiles, less reliance 
upon wasteful packaging, and less need for the labor saving devices 
that exploited natural resources in order to save time to spend with 
little reward in our overdepleted world. We produce what we need 
and not a surplus. We allocate limited resources. New economists 
adjust economic sights to accommodate the requirements of our 
spaceship Earth, limited closed system that it is. The economists 
rethink about growth and know that ‘’growth for the sake of growth 
is the ideology of the cancer cell," as Edward Abbey pointed out. 
There is less spectator sport and more participating. The American 
people, once a nation of watchers, are ‘do-it-yourself people’ again. 
They ski where the snowmobiles took them, walk where trail bikes 
crudded the wilderness and swim where motorboats droned over 
lakes they oiled. The people buy less music and make more of their 
own. There is a world quiet enough to hear it in. 
People are healthier. Fewer coronaries strike them because walking 
and bicycling and swimming keep them fitter. There are fewer 
people in hospitals because the old murderous automobile-oriented 
transportation system has been brought under.control!. 
Even the 
former automobile manufacturers, salesmen, and service people 
live longer, better lives. One major change is that every product. 
we buy includes in its price the cost of its ultimate disposal. The 
many products that once were cheap because they were dumped 
at will have become so expensive that they no longer end up 
cluttering the environment. 
Many of the people who were producing automobiles have been 
shifted into the housing or building industry. Their main job 
is restructuring the urban wastes to planned cities, restoring 
land to good agricultural use, building high-quality clustered 
dwellings at the edges of the good agricultural land, using recycled 
material from the old buildings. People ride the short distance 
to their work and have a chance to farm a little in the sun. There 
are legs and arms and abdomens where the flab was, and the 
air is once again. transparent. 
The idea that a steady state works is commonplace. The population 
is declining slowly toward a balance between man and the other 
living things upon which his own life depends. The need for, and 
number of, schools, doctors, highways, roads, public parks, recrea- 
tional facilities, swimming pools, and other facilities is roughly the 
same from year to year. People work enough to service equipment 
and to replace things that wear out. They devote energy to increasing 
the quality of life rather than to-providing more and more possessions. 
The job of the garbage man and junk man is elevated to the stature of 
recycling engineer, looping systems in such a way that materials cause 
no environmental deterioration.- Many power plants and dams are dis- 
mantled as the amount of energy needed each year declines and people 
develop sensible ways of living that require much less power, pollution, 
and environmental disruption. There is decentralization of many basic 
services. Ecologically sound food stores prosper, offering pesticide- 
free produce in returnable containers. 
Advertising serves to inform, not to overstimulate, and is believable 
again. Wilderness areas are no longer under attack, and retread wild- 
erness increases substantially each year; less land is needed for com- 
mercial timber production because of effective recycling of wood 
products, reduction of conspicuous consumption and the lessening 
of need as the population drops. Poisoning of the ecosystem by 
H 
s 
the leaded automobile gasoline has ceased because engine redesign 
eliminates the need for lead additives. 
Ecotactics 
1970; 287 pp. 
$.95 postpaid 
from: 
Simon and Schuster, Inc. 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10020 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Though the medium may be the message, the event itself is a very 
crucial part of what's transmitted. So strive for far-out symbolic 
actions on meaningful, relevant issues that will seize the imagination 
and commitment of the press and the public. The overall rule of 
thumb is to localize the greater issues at hand in the ecology move- 
ment. 
Don’t just demonstrate against water pollution; pick a 
nearby polluted stream and wage acleanup campaign. Everybody 
knows industry kills; indentify which industries. Shine a giant 
searchlight on belching smokestacks at night. Give DIS-honor 
awards to polluters. Picket. Have a mock funeral for an internal 
combustion engine. A simple idea can blossom into a great 
publicity-getter, and accomplish something in its own right. Pete 
Seeger set out last summer with songs and a sailing sloop on the 
befouled Hudson River and turned on thousands to the problem of 
-water pollution. 
John Zeh 
pe 
a 
Ee 
ne 
= 
Emphysema and lung cancer caused by smog are eliminated and the 
smog goes. People learn how to garden again, and allow the recovery 
to take place of the natural forms of “pest” control instead of heavy 
doses of pesticides. 
People are learning progressively more about relying less on gadgets. 
They have long since refused to buy ten cents worth of food in a 
T.V. dinner on an aluminum platter that will outlast the food for 
generations. 
Many of the things built in the past in the name of conservation are 
being unbuilt. The Army Corps of Engineers is spending its time 
undoing the damage it has done over the past decades. 
Cities no 
longer ask the Corps to build a dam to prevent flooding of houses 
unwisely built on a flood plain. Instead, they ask the Corps to 
restore the flood plain to a vegetative cover that accommodates 
floods——good creative work for engineers. 
And that technological mistake, the supersonic transport, has 
long since been a strange delusion, the few that were built 
having been dismantled and forgotten. 
Garrett De Bell 
Micronesian “out-islander” in particular——that is, those who live 
across a hundred miles or more of sea from any neighboring islands, 
and whose contact with the rest of the world is limited to the few 
souls who arrive on the eighty foot government boat every six 
months——simply don’t think about infinity, or to put it more 
accurately, the idea that everything is possible. 
In order to survive out there by themselves, they’ve had to gain a 
pretty good feeling for pacing the breadfruit production and the 
coconut eating. 
In some of those places the highest crime is cut- 
ting down acoconut tree without communal permission. 
Jerry Mander 
Education, particularly higher education, is critically important to 
solving our ecological crisis. 
... The whole direction and purpose 
and thrust of our culture is toward greater production, greater 
exploitation. 
In many if not in most of our universities, there is 
little criticism of the basic assumptions and value judgments that 
underlie our current priorities. The university is quite capable of 
developing an automated machine to harvest almost any crop, but 
it is unable to evaluate the long-term social costs of such a development. 
Garrett De Bell 
By conventional bookkeeping methods, for example, the coal companies 
strip-mining away the hillsides of Kentucky and West Virginia show a 
handsome profit. Their ledgers, however, show only a fraction of the 
true cost of their operations. They take no account of destroyed land 
which can never bear another crop; of rivers poisoned by mud and 
seeping acid from the spoil banks; of floods which sweep over farms 
and towns downstream, because the ravaged slopes can no longer 
hold the rainfall. 
, 
John Fischer 
When writing press releases or dealing with reporters, remember the 
media are always looking for new metaphors and good ideas. Ques- 
tions such as: What is ecology? Why are you involved in it? What 
do you hope to accomplish by holding a teach-in? are going to be 
asked again and again. Be prepared to answer very broad questions 
like these in one or two sentences which are concise and interesting. 
The person doing PR should not only be informed and able to handle 
a variety of rhetoric but should also be interesting or unusual in his 
own right. Put yourself in the reporter's shoes: what is it about you, 
your group, and your activities that would make a good story? 
Barbara Parker 
+ 
| personally doubt that disastrous ecologic backlash can be avoided 
simply by applying to our problems more science and more tech- 
nology. Our science and technology have grown out of Christian 
attitudes toward man’‘s relation to nature which are almost uni- 
versally held not only by Christians and neo-Christians but also 
by those who fondly regard themselves as post-Christians. 
Despite 
Copernicus, all the cosmos rotates around our little globe. Despite 
Darwin, we are not, in our heads, part of the natural process. We 
are superior to nature, contemptuous of it, willing to use it for 
our slightest whim. 
Lynn White, Jr. 
Eco-Pornography of How to Spot an Ecological Phony 
1. Is (insert name of company) advertising in this voice to solve 
a problem or to prolong it? 
2. Does a press conference fog up what counts? 
3. Does an ad obscure the issue? 
4. Does the ad sell pie before it is in the sky? 
5. Is the ad really suggesting’ more dangerous alternatives? 
Check it out. 
If the advertiser fails, tell him and your friends. 
Tom 
Turne 
| am interested in the way that a man looks at a given landscape 
and takes possession of it in his blood and brain. For this happens, 
| am certain, in the ordinary motion of life. None of us lives apart 
from.the land entirely; such an isolation is unimaginable. We have 
sooner or later to come to terms with the world around us——and | 
mean especially the physical world, not only as it is revealed to us 
immediately through our senses, but also as it is perceived more 
truly in the long turn of seasons and of years. And we must come 
to moral terms. There is no alternative, | believe, if we are to realize 
and maintain our humanity, for our humanity must consist in part 
in the ethical as well as the practical ideal of preservation. And 
particularly here and now is that true. We Americans need now 
more than ever before——and indeed more than we know——to 
imagine who and what we are with respect to the earth and sky. | 
am talking about an act of the imagination essentially, and the 
concept of an American land ethic. 
N. Scott Momaday 
The great enemy of open space is not the Federal government. 
It’s 
the local governments. There’s no local government in this country 
that is suited to turn down a new payroll or a new property tax 
base. Our country’s built on a property tax supporting local gov- 
ernment. 
Every impoverished county that has lovely open space, 
every city that wants to expand is going to permit development. 
After all, it wasn’t the local but the Federal government that got 
in and stopped the jetport. When you say there was no outpouring 
for the jetport, what you really mean is there wasn't any sentiment 
in Florida against the jetport. 
Paul McCloskey 
——" 
+ 
> 
- 
