Gestalt Therapy Verbatim 
Frederick S. Perls, M.D., Ph.D. 
1969; 279 pp. 
$3.50 postpaid 
from: 
Real People Press 
939 Carol Lane 
Lafayette, CA 94549 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
srs 
are Con men, interfering. 
People have to grow by frustration 
‘skillful frustration. Otherwise they have no incentive to 
y——| can feel my heart pounding, and my pulse is——and 
, and my legs, and my neck... Actually it’s not a bad 
‘s a good strong heart .. 
. | feel the warmth of the fire on 
that’s nice, too. 
ow come back to us. — 
"m not so scared now——it works.every time, Fritz. 
i s take another step. You come up here and talk to me——just 
tl ng. (as the person speaks, Fritz imitates his words, voice 
n, and facial expressions) 
Pair up and do this, and again try ~ 
y get the feei of being this other person. 
... 
want each one of you to transform yourself into something a 
iore different. Say, transform yourself into aroad. 
... 
aay 
Pd 
BN6. 
OS. 
insform yourself into a motorcar. 
... 
nsform yourself into a six months-old baby .. 
. 
ransform yourself into the mother of that baby . . . 
sform yourself into that same baby again . 
. . 
same mother... 
same baby... 
two years of age... 
 Q: What is your opinion about meditation? 
_ F: Meditation is neither shit nor get off the pot. 
‘ings; or anything terribly unique about your dilemmas 
/ ir 
fuck-ups. May describes our external and internal 
ments in their relationship to each other with a mind- 
ecuracy that evokes recognition——“Yes, that’s me, 
_ 
and that’s just the way it is these days’. Far from 
ught down, one feels embraced by a warm intel- 
, 
and relieved that there are minds like May’s around. 
‘ of psychological ecologist, May points to the price we 
ery step of “social progress’, and suggests that if 
e have unwittingly but consistently thrown out 
with the bath water, then maybe it’s time to find 
some other way to get clean. 
[Reviewed by Diana Shugart] 
Pare 
defined fairly adequately in physiological terms as con- 
building up of bodily tensions and their release. 
Eros, 
is 
the experiencing of the personal intentions and mean- 
. Whereas sex is a rhythm of stimulus and response, 
of being. The pleasure in sex is described by Freud 
e reduction of tension; in eros, on the contrary, we 
leased from the excitement but rather to hang on 
it and even to increase it. The end toward which 
ation and relaxation, whereas eros is a desiring, 
aching out, seeking to expand. 
‘ 
h the dictionary definitions. 
form yourself into your present age, the age you are... Can 
book to disabuse you, and you, and you of any notions 
ght have about there being anything very special in your 
Gestalt Therapy Verbatim 
* In and Out the Garbage Pail 
Fritz Perls is not nearly as deceased as he seems. 
These two 
books preserve his power for all to tap and use. 
They also, to 
my mind, revolutionize the book industry. Gestalt Therapy 
Verbatim /s made of tapes from Fritz’ seminars and workshops 
at Esalen——and seldom will you find conflict, funk, truth and 
accomplishment so thick in a book. In and Out the Garbage 
Pail /s Fritz’ application of his methods to himself, through 
the very writing. It’s autobiography, theory, poetry, and 
Fritz’ many voices hassling each other through impasse into 
growth. The illustrations by Russ Youngreen raise the book 
by at least a dimension. 
But all of this is derivative from Fritz Perls’ main accomplish- 
ment. His psychology and his therapy ... work. 
[Suggested by Barry Stevens] 
Look at the difference between the words “’| am tensing myself’’ and 
“There's a tenseness here.’’ When you say “’I feel tenseness,”’ you're 
irresponsible, you are not responsible for this; you are impotent and 
you can’t do anything about it. The world should do something—— 
give you aspirin or whatever it is. But when you say “’| am tensing’’ 
you take responsibility, and we can see tiie first bit of excitement 
of life coming out. So stay with this se;tence. 
As soon as you say, “| want to change’’—make a program—a counter- 
force is created that prevents you from change. Changes are taking 
place by themselves. 
If you go deeper into what you are, if you 
accept what is there, then a change automatically occurs by itself. 
You see how you can use everything in a dream. 
If you are pursued 
by an ogre in a dreara, and you become the ogre, the nightmare 
disappears. You re-own the energy that is invested in the demon. 
Then the power of the ogre is no longer outside, alienated, but 
inside where you can use it. 
You never overcome anything by resisting it. You only can overcome 
anything by going deeper into it. If you are spiteful, be more spite- 
ful. 1f you are performing, increase the performance. Whatever it 
is, if you go deeply enough into it, then it will disappear; it will be 
assimilated. Any resistance isno good. You have to go full into it-— 
swing with it. Swing with your pain, your restlessness, whatever is 
there. Use your spite. Use your environment. 
Use all that you 
fight and disown. 
Gestalt Therapy Verbatim 
Love and Will 
Rollo May 
AND 
1969; 352 
- WII | 
$6.95 postpaid 
BY 
from: 
ROLLO MAY 
2K 
AUTHOR OF 
MAN'S SEARCH FOR HIMSELF 
W. W. Norton & Company, Inc. 
55 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
lf we repress the daimonic, we shall find these powers returning to 
“sicken” us; whereas, if we let them stay, we shall have to struggle 
to a new level of consciousness in order to integrate them and not 
be overwhelmed by impersonal power. And (what a refreshingly 
honest motto to put up in a psychotherapist’s office!) either way will 
hurt. 
We cannot ignore or slough over Freud’s discoveries without cutting 
ourselves off from our own history, mutilating our own conscious- 
ness, and forfeiting the chance to push through this crisis to a new 
plane of consciousness and integration. Man’s image of himself will 
never be the same again; our only choice is to retreat before this 
destruction of our vaunted ‘‘will power” or to push on to the inte- 
gration of consciousness on new levels. | do not wish or ‘‘choose”’ 
to do the former; but we have not yet achieved the latter; and our 
crisis of will is that we are now paralyzed between the two. 
In and Out the Garbage Pail 
Frederick S. Perils, M.D., Ph.D. 
1969; 280 pp. 
$4.00 postpaid 
from: 
Lafayette, CA 94549 
Real People Press 
)) 
939 Carol Lane 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
One remark that | get makes me embarrassed and angry: ‘When will 
the book come out?” 
: 
“Will you please leave me alone and let me do my thing! 
| am glad 
that | am excited and eager to write. 
| am glad to do something 
that integrates your needs and mine. So, don’t push the river; it 
flows by itself!’ 
e 
But | am holding onto my credo: 
‘Il am responsible only for myself. 
You are responsible for yourselves. 
| resent your demands on me, as 
| resent any intrusion into my way of being.” 
| know | am holding on just a bit too tight. 
Topdog: Stop, Fritz. what are you doing? 
Underdog: What do you mean? 
Cope and withdraw, contract and expand, implode and explode—— 
like the heart imploding, contracting, and then exploding, opening 
to be filled. Permanent contracting leads to quick death, as does 
permanent extension. 
In and Out of the Garbage Pail 
seca 
BRR GCeeeeeuseseoceseeePeReneseseusesescesecES 
Seeceuecaceresessecccacs 
e 
one 
Just as the individual is feeling powerless and plagued with self- 
doubts about his own decisions, he is, at the same time, assured 
that he, modern man, can do anything. God is dead and are we 
not gods——for have we not re-enacted Genesis by splitting the 
atom in our own laboratories and over Hiroshima? Of course, we 
did it in reverse: 
God made form out of chaos and we have made 
chaos out of form, and it is a rare human being who is not, in some 
secret place in his heart, scared to death that we shall not be able 
to turn chaos into form again before it is too late. 
If will remains protest, tt stays dependent on that which tt ts pro- 
testing against. Protest is half-developed will. Dependent, like the 
child on parents, it borrows its impetus from its enemy. This 
gradually empties the will of content; you always are the shadow 
of your adversary, waiting for him to move so that you can move 
yourself. Sooner or later, your will becomes hollow, and may then 
be forced back to the next line of defense. 
‘ 
This next defense is projection of blame. We find an illustration in 
every war of this unwitting confession of failure to integrate the 
daimonic. 
In the Vietnam war, for example, Secretary Rusk and the 
Administration blamed the Viet Cong for the escalation, and the Viet 
Cong——and those in this country opposed to the war——blamed Rusk 
and our own Administration. The self-righteous security that is 
achieved by means of this blaming of the other gives one a temporary 
_ Satisfaction. 
But beyond the gross oversimplification of our historical 
situation which this exhibits, we pay a more serious price for such 
security. We have tacitly given the power of decision over to our 
adversary. 
. 
