ing, the Book of Changes, is a britliant problem- 
evice. A problem (or ignorance) generally consists 
- 
aught in local cyclic thinking. To consult the 
he wisdom of chance (or synchronicity, no matter), 
| 
the nature of change. Vou now have an alternative 
tions that owe nothing but proximity to your 
You make the associations, you find the way out. 
er. 
t/ 
De eemausly ancient, poetic, deep, esoteric, simple, 
ving. It has been the most influential book on American 
ad artists in the last 15 os 
e new smaller Pasi ie ee Princeton University 
ersion of the classic Wilhelm-Baynes Bollingen edition. 
32. Heng/Duration 
above 
CHEN 
The Arousing, Thunder 
below 
SUN 
The Gentle, Wind 
‘ong trigram Chen is above, the weak trigram Sun below. This 
am is the inverse of the preceding one. In the latter we have 
nce, here we have union as an enduring condition. The two 
ges are thunder and wind, which are likewise constantly paired 
ena. The lower trigram indicates gentleness within; the upper, 
ment without. 
~ 
. 
You've got Abu Kasem’s Slippers, and then 
Ja and John Golden-Mouth, and four romances 
ing Arthur that take deeper turns than T. H. White, 
g and the Corpse, and the prize: the ancient 
Romance of the Goddess, plumbing the involuntary 
mn. Collected by Heinrich Zimmer, edited 
by Joseph 
~ 
p. bell. There’s few books with such a blend of 
vagance and intelligence, and none that come so 
‘0 
0 the heart of education. 
[Suggested by tie Fadiman] 
night, in the bed, Sir Gawain could not at first bring himself to 
id face her unappetizing snout. After alittle time, however, 
dtohim: ‘Ah, Sir Gawain, since | have wed you, show me 
urtesy in bed. It may not be rightfully denied. 
If 1 were 
u would not behave this way; you are taking no heed of 
For Arthur's sake do kiss me at least; | pray you, do 
'y request. Come, let us see how quick you can be!” 
e 
knight and loyal nephew of the king collected every bit of 
Ci pou tage and kindness. 
‘‘I will do more,’ he said in all gentle- 
| will do more than simply kiss, before God!"" And he 
d around to her. And he saw her to be the fairest creature 
er 
he had seen without measure. 
“What is your will?’ 
h, Jesu!” he said, ‘what are ye?” 
your wife, securely; why are ye so unkind?” 
ly, | am to blame; | did not know. You are beautiful in 
ht——whereas today you were the foulest wight my eye 
seen! "To have you thus, my lady, pleases me well.” 
yraced her in his arms and began kissing her, and they 
reat joy. 
she said, “my beauty will not hold. You may have me thus, 
or half the day. And so it is a question, and you must 
yh ether you would have me fair at night and foul by day 
en‘s eyes, or beautiful by day and foul at night.” 
ied Gawain, “the choice is hard. To have you fair at 
Oo more, that would grieve my heart; but if | should 
have you fair by day, then at night | should have a scab- 
. Fain would | choose the best, yet know not what in 
d | shall say. My dear lady, let it be as you would desire 
choice in your hand. My body and goods, my heart 
Jurs 
to buy and sell; that | avow before God.” 
‘courteous knight!" said the lady. “‘Mayst thou 
In the sphere of social relationships, the hexagram represents the 
institution of marriage as the enduring union of the sexes. During 
courtship the young man subordinates himself to the girl, but in 
Marriage, which is represented by the coming together of the 
eldest son and the eldest daughter, the husband is the directing 
and moving force outside, while the wife, inside, is gentle and 
submissive. 
THE JUDGMENT 
DURATION. Success. No blame. 
Perseverance furthers. 
It furthers one to have somewhere to go. 
Duration is a state whose movement is not worn down by hindrances. 
It is not a state of rest, for mere standstill is regression. Duration is 
rather the self-contained and therefore self-renewing movement of an 
organized, firmly integrated whole, taking place in accordance with 
immutable laws and beginning anew at every ending. The end is 
reached by an inward movement, by inhalation, systole, contraction, 
_ 
and this movement turns into a new beginning, in which the 
movement is directed outward, in exhalation, diastole, expansion. 
Heavenly bodies exemplify duration. They move in their fixed 
orbits, and because of this their light-giving power endures. The 
seasons of the year follow a fixed law of change and transformation, 
hence can produce effects that endure. 
So likewise the dedicated man embodies an enduring meaning in his 
way of life, and thereby the world is formed. 
In that which gives 
things their duration, we can come to understand the nature of 
all beings in heaven and on earth. 
THE IMAGE 
Thunder and wind: the image of DURATION. 
Thus the superior man stands firm 
And does not change his direction. 
Thunder rolls, and the wind blows; both are examples of extreme 
mobility and so are seemingly the very opposite of duration, but 
the laws governing their appearance and subsidence, their coming 
and going, endure. 
In the Same way the independence of the 
superior man is not based on rigidity and immobility of char- 
acter. He always keeps abreast of the time and changes with it. 
What endures is the unswerving directive, the inner law of his 
being, which determines all his actions. 
Six in the fifth place means: 
Giving duration to one’s character through perseverance. 
This is good fortune for a woman, misfortune for a man. 
A woman should follow a man her whole life long, but a man 
should at all times hold to what is his duty at the given 
moment. Should he persistently seek to conform to the woman, it 
would be a mistake for him. Accordingly it is altogether right 
for 
awoman to hold conservatively to tradition, but a man must 
always be flexible and adaptable and allow himself to be guided 
by what his duty requires of him at the moment. 
Six at the top means: 
Restlessness as an enduring condition brings misfortune. 
THE KING AND THE CORPSE 
The _— and the Corpse 
Heinrich 
Zimmer; Joseph Campbell, ed. 
1948; 338 pp. 
$7.50 postpaid 
from: 
Princeton University Press 
Princeton, N. J. 08540 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The involvement of the gods in the web of their own creation, 
so that they become, like Abu Kasem, the harried victims of 
their creatures, entangled in nets of not quite voluntary self- 
manifestation, and then mocked by the knowing laughter of their 
own externally reflected inner judge: this is the miracle of the 
universe. This is the tragicomic romance of the world. The gods, 
the fairy powers, are always in danger of self-enchantment. 
Like 
the youth Narcissus, they become fixed to their own reflected 
images—momentarily reluctant to pass with the passing of time, 
and critically in need of the shocking, shattering blow of the 
redemptive catastrophe. Man is the little world creator; God, the 
great. Each, surrounded by the figments of his own mirrored depths, 
knows and suffers the cosmic self-torment. And the fatal power 
that enchants them both is ever the great goddess, Maya, self- 
delusion, the supreme creatrix of all the worlds. 
Brahma, sinking still further into the limpid darkness of his own 
interior, struck a new depth: suddenly the most beautiful dark 
woman sprang from his vision, and stood naked before everyone’s 
gaze. 
a 
She was Dawn, and she was radiant with vivid youth. Nothing like her 
had yet appeared among the gods; nor would her equal ever be 
seen, either among men, or in the depths of the waters in the 
jeweled palaces of the serpent queens and kings. The billows of 
her blue-black hair were glistening like the feathers of a peacock, 
and her clearly curving, dark brows formed a bow fit for 
jeweled palaces of the serpent queens and kings. The billows of 
her blue-black hair were glistening like the feathers of a peacock, 
and her clearly curving, dark brows formed a bow fit for the God 
of Love. Her eyes, like dark lotus calyxes, had the alert, questioning 
glance of the frightened gazelle; and her face, round as the moon, was 
like a purple lotus blossom. Her swelling breasts with their two 
dark points were enough to infatuate a saint. Trim as the shaft 
of a lance stood her body, and her smooth legs were like the stretched- 
out trunks of elephants. She was glowing with little delicate 
pearls of perspiration. And when she found herself in the midst of 
her startled audience, she stared about at them, in uncertainty, 
then broke into a softly rippling laugh. 
The I Ching 
Translated by Richard Wilhelm, Cary F. Baynes 
? B.C.; 740 pp. 
$5.25 postpaid 
from: 
Shambala Booksellers 
2482 Telegraph Avenue 
Berkeley, CA 94704 
or 
$6.00 postpaid 
from: 
Princeton University Press 
Princeton, New Jersey 08540 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
There are people who live in a state of perpetual hurry without 
ever attaining inner composure. 
Restlessness not only prevents 
all thoroughness but actually becomes a Benge if it is dominant 
in places of authority. 
The course of the world runs awry, but therewith it goes directly 
to its goal. The catastrophe of the previously unforeseen is what 
breaks the world progression forward, and the moment the catastrophe 
has come to pass it appears to be what was intended all the while. 
For it is creative in a deeper way than the planning creative spirit 
supposes. 
It transforms the situation, forces an alteration on the 
creative spirit, and throws it into a play that carries it beyond itself. 
carries it, that is to say, really and properly into play, and into a 
play that entrains the entirety of creation. The planner, the watcher, is 
compelled to become the endurer, the sufferer. Such a metamorphosis 
into the opposite, into the absolutely alien, is what throws the knots 
that reticulate the net of the living whole and mesh the individual 
alive into the fabric. 
Shiva’s visage became radiant with joy. In the presence of all 
the Holy Ones he lapsed, absorbed, into introverted vision. Then 
hé permitted himself to sink to the floor, legs crossed, shut his 
eyes, and sank into his being to the depth of the Being Sublime. 
His body began to glow, so that the eyes of all-the Holy Ones 
present became dazzled. And the moment he reached quietude 
in this immersion, Vishnu's Maya fell away from around him, 
and his entire body burst into such a radiance that even his own 
hosts were unable to bear the blast. Vishnu passed into him, 
poured into him as the pure Light of Heaven, and disclosed 
within Shiva's body, to the eye of his inner contemplation, the 
whole lotus-spectacle of creation and the procession of the world. 
Blissful and serene, beyond the senses and their universes of 
distinctions, alone and pure, beholding everything, the abstracted 
one experienced within his own being the Being Supreme, that Sub- 
stratum of all Unfoldments. He beheld, riveted in contemplation, how 
the One Substance exfoliates into all the delectations of the world. 
Shiva, bereaved, distracted, was conducted gently by his guru 
Brahma, out of the gates of the city of his life’s loss and away into 
the Himalayan peaks of snow. There, walking together, the two 
came upon alittle lake of solitude, clear, and delightful to the 
mind. Brahma perceived it first. 
And seated here and there about the quiet shores were saints 
and sages in absolute meditation; two or three stood bathing 
in the cool crystal waters, sending ripples out across its mirroring 
of the blue and immobile, high, mountain sky. Many migratory 
birds, shrilly crying, were coming from all directions to flutter 
down into its lotus-bordered waters—pairs of splendid ruddy geese 
beautifully spreading out their great wings in exultation, 
cormorants with their hooked bills, gray-winged geese, and 
Siberian cranes, stalking about the shores, floating on the surface 
of the lake, peering into the waters, themselves beautifully 
reflected—and, occasionally, with a sudden thunderous beating of 
hundreds of wings, all lifting out of the lake into the sky, to circle 
in many companies, and presently return to settle, flutter, and 
preen. And beneath them, in the crystalline depths, 
were swimming fish of innumerable brilliant hues, 
visible as they darted in and out among the lotus 
stems. 
Lotus buds, lotus chalices, blue lotuses and 
white were abundant there; and the vegetation about 
the shores was luxurious and of coo} shade. 
; 
