is book i 
is by an economist enchanted with Gibernetics 
'e’s after the organizing principle in life, the image the 
Sg comes together through. He scarcely mentions 
tw 
brain, and he’s right. It ain’t the brain. 
[Suggested by Martha Neufeld] 
+ THE IMAGE 
The Image 
from: 
_ Kenneth E. Boulding 
The University of Michigan Press 
pM Et 175 pp. 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106 
St. 
75 postpaid 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
I ay third pronouncement or so scratches an itch you didn’ t 
| 
know you had. The pictures (226 of them) are splendidly 
ecu/iar——battleships, native masks, a survey of military 
formations, a fat lady, cubist paintings, an ancient Egyptian 
with glasses. | don’t know if the book has much to do with 
| 
_ art: it has plenty to do with the tension of environment 
| and anti-environment. 
iv 
ae 
_ Foundations of Modern Art 
_ Qzenfant, Trans. by John Rodker 
, eg 347 pp. 
from: 
Dover Publications, Inc. 
180 Varick Street 
New York, N. Y. 10014 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
_ [Suggested by Frederick Ted Castle] 
The meaning of a message is the change which it produces in 
the image. 
Pe 
é 
Between the incoming and outgoing messages lies the great inter- 
vening variable of the image. The outgoing messages are the result 
of the image, not the result of the incoming messages. The in- 
coming messages only modify the outgoing messages as they suc- 
ceed in modifying the image. 
) 
| have never been to Australia. 
In my image of the world, however, 
it exists with 100 per cent certainty. 
If | sailed to the place where 
the map makers tell me it is and found nothing there but ocean | 
would be the most surprised man.in the world. 
| hold to this part 
of my image with certainty, however, purely on authority. 
| have 
been to many other places which | have found on the map and | 
have almost always found them there, 
It is interesting to inquire 
what gives the map this extraordinary authority, an authority 
greater than that of the sacred books of all religions. 
It is not an 
authority which is derived from any political power or from any 
charismatic experience. As far as | know it is not acrime against 
the state nor against religion to show a map that has mistakes in 
it. There is, however, a process of feedback from the users of maps 
to the map maker. 
There is a strong tendency for authoritarian organizations to use 
violence or the threat of violence in support of the role structure, 
that is, in order to gain acceptance of the role on the part of the 
persons occupying the lower role. For a time this may be suc- 
cessful in maintaining the organization. 
It is usually, however, 
self-defeating because of the corruption of the communication 
system which it entails. The case is somewhat analogous to that 
of the schizophrenic or the extreme paranoid. His sense receptors 
are so much “‘afraid”’ of him that they merely confirm the products 
of his heated imagination. The terrorized information sources of 
the tyrant likewise tell him only what they think will be pleasing 
to his ears. Organizations as well as individuals can suffer from 
hallucinations. 
|t is the peculiar disease of authoritarian structures. 
Great individuals have always been rare. The history of Art is a few 
names only. The masters were those who said something new in 
their ti 
At first a nuisance, they succeeded later in inoculating 
the public with their own special needs, which eventually became 
everyone’s heritage. The schools are the product of the paraphrasers 
whose affiliations, branches, colonies, and large-scale production 
exploit the ‘“market’’ created by the masters. Thus even the Renais- 
sance had a few great painters and crowds of lesser men. Yet schools 
have their uses, for they help to get the master accepted by toning 
him down, and when they exaggerate him they end by boring every- 
body, and thus deliver society from his tyranny. 
The early youth of a man marked out for greatness reveals his 
later quality. His middle age is often characterised by work that is 
not truly representative, for self-criticism often obscures his natural 
virtues. Often works of this period, when technically he is most 
accomplished, mirror a malaise due to the fact that his intellect 
has not yet established full harmony with his instincts. The greatest 
works of art are those produced in the fifties. 
By then the master 
has drawn from his intellect all it can give, and is reaping the reward 
of his experiments. He discovers or rediscovers his own well-springs. 
Michael Angelo, Tintoretto, Renoir, Cezanne. 
\ 
‘ 
The spring of the 
talve is not proud 
at all. 
Proud mouldings of Doric cornices! 
This valve is proud! 
At the other extreme, democratic structures in which there is no 
™ 
adequate leadership, that is, in which the feedback is destructive 
of the decision-making process on the part of higher roles are like- 
wise unstable and incapable of maintaining themselves. 
If discus 
sion is to be a successful process of decision-making it must exhibit 
a degree of convergence toward common images of the whole organ- 
ization. 
If the feedback from the followers destroys the image of 
the leader instead of merely modifying it, the process is likely to 
be self-defeating. 
The image acts as a field. The behavior consists in gravitating 
toward the most highly valued part of the field. 
It does not 
follow from this, however, that the consequences of behavior 
are in conformity with the image which produced them. 
Dis-- 
appointment and surprise are a common lot of both organisms 
and organizations. We behave according to some image of the 
consequences of our acts. When, however, these consequences 
are reflected in information fed back to us, we find very often 
that feedback does not confirm the original image. Under these 
circumstances, as we have seen, the image may be modified or 
it may not. 
In tracing the effect of images on the course of history, peculiar 
attention must be paid to the images of time and especially the 
images of the future. Curiously enough, it may not be so much 
the actual content of the image of the future which is important 
in its effect, but its general quality of optimism or pessimism, 
certainty or uncertainty, breadth or narrowness. 
The person or 
the nation that has a date with destiny goes somewhere, though not 
usually to the address on the label. The individual or the nation 
which has no sense of direction in time, no sense of aclear future 
ahead is likely to be vacillating, uncertain in behavior, and to have 
a poor chance of surviving. Those images of the future which are 
most persistent and which have had the greatest impact on human 
history seem to be those which are impenetrable to feedback and 
which maintain themselves by their own internal beauty and 
consistency. 
The American Customs lately brought suit against Brancusi. They 
claimed that, in order to avoid the duty payable on raw materials, 
he had made a false declaration by designating his bronzes as works 
of art. One of the arguments used by the Customs officials was: 
““M. Brancusi claims that this object represents a bird. 
If you met 
such a bird out shooting, would you fire?” 
SUSPENSE 
Our mind always tries to organize what appears unorganized.or not organ- 
ized enough. It also trics to resolve the discontinuous in continuous. Our 
mind tends to complete the incomplete or interrupted forms. We feel se 
suspense, then satisfaction of completion. (Phenomenon much in use in music.) 
ee 
:
Electric Spark 
What else is barbarism but an incapacity for distinguishing excel- 
lence? 
—Goethe 
To imitate something is merely to stuff it. 
