PICTORIAL 
DICTIONARIES 
| 
‘One picture is worth a thousand words.” The 
Germans believe that too, and proof is available 
in 
The English Duden. This is a short, fat, 928 
ge book that includes a picture of almost 
aything you can think of, and many things 
that you.can’t. Most of the illustrations are 
in black and white, but a number (including 
good ones of the human body) are in color. 
Hare meticulously drawn and have every 
single constituent carefully and accurately 
labeled. The comprehensiveness of the book 
is staggering. It offers, with Teutonic omni- 
science, pictures showing every part of, say, 
otorcycle engine, a paper-making factory, 
a handsome young lady, and the interior of a 
barber shop. Dress styles, beehives, photo- 
graphic laboratories, musical instruments, 
Roman gods, jet aircraft; they are all here, 
clearly dissected and indexed in German and 
English (or French or Italian if you prefer), 
with differences between British and American 
usage noted. It is one of the publishing bar- 
gains of the 20th Century. 
{Suggested and reviewed 
by Dr: Morton Grosser] 
THE GERMAN DUDEN 
THE FRENCH DUDEN 
THE ITALIAN DUDEN 
THE SPANISH DUDEN 
ea. Cc. 950 pp, cloth bound 
$7.95 ppd 
ADLER'S 
FOREIGN BOOKS, INC. 
162 Fifth Avenue 
NEW YORK, N. Y. 10010 
DarF HEP EL KT Rr 
RAR ABB FORBES 
iVING 
—Skin Diver 
" {82 The Motorcycle (Motor Bicycle) 
1-89 soles (solo machines), 
1 the side-valve (S.V.) two-cylinder 
four- 
stroke (Aa. four-cycle) 
motor with 
horizontal cylinders: 
2. the tubular frame with front 
and rear 
suspensioa 
3 the front-wheel 
leading link 
4 the telescopic springing 
S the beck (rear) wheel swinging arm 
with shaft drive and universal joint 
6 the opposed-cylinder 
engine 
7 the cylinder head 
13 the brake lever 
14 the brake cable 
45 the back (rear) wheel brake linkage 
16 the rear brake pedal (Asw. service brake) 
17 the tyre inflator 
18 the rear (tail) light 
19 the pivoted saddle with saddle cover 
20 the maker's badge; 
— 
21. the overhead-valve (O.H.V.) single- 
cylinder motor with dry-sump 
lubrication : 
22 the carburettor air lever 
23 the dipswitch 
24 the horn (hooter) button 
25 the steering damper 
26 the parallel brake levers 
27 the full width hub brake 
28 the petrol (Am. gasoline) tank 
29 the throttle control cable 
30 the air control cable 
31 the carburetter (Am, carburetor tickler) 
32 the combined filter and petrol tap 
(Am, gasoline shut-off valve) with 
reserve 
33 the tubular section pressed steel frame 
34 the oil tank 
35 the kickstarter 
36 the furt-operated gear lever 
Magazine 
37 the foor-rest 
38 the motorcycle stand 
39 thé hom (Hooter) 
40 the rear wheel spindle (Am. axle) 
1 the motorcycle 
tool box (Aa, tool 
kit) 
42 the silencer 
(As. muffler); 
43 the overbead 
valve operating crank: 
44 the valve rocker 
45 the cam 
4% the overhead camshaft 
47 the eccentric 
48 the overhead valve operating 
crank 
49 the needle roller bearing; 
SO the vertical shaft overhead 
valve 
(O.H.V\) engine 
51 the plate showing type or model 
55 the motorcycle dual seat 
56 the chain guard inspection plug 
57 the pillion-ridet's foot-rest 
$8 the handlebar windscreen (Am. wind- 
shield) 
59 the sports model; 
- 
@ the motorcycle combination 
(motorcycle and sidecar): 
61 the side-valve (5.V.) single-cylinder 
four-stroke motor (Am. four-cycle 
motor) 
62 the sidecar body 
63 the sidecar bumper 
64 the sidecar wheel 
65 the side light 
66 the sidecar windscreen (Amr. wind- 
shield) 
New, revised, enlarged by CNCA- 
“the ultimate in skin diving texts.” 
THE NEW SCIENCE 
OF SKIN AND 
SCUBA DIVING 
Written by Council for National Co-operation 
in Aquatics experts, this newly revised edition 
has up-dated 
material 
on 
the physics and 
mathematics of diving, equipment, and on the 
medical examination. 
All the basic informa- 
tion you need. A recommended 
text of the 
National Assn. of Underwater Instructors. Now 
73 illus., charts, tables; glossary; index. Now 
224 pages. $4.95. Paper, $2.95. 
from: 
At dive shops or direct 
ASSOCIATION PRESS, 291 BROADWAY, N.Y.C. 10007 
$25 ad: 
VITA 
GREEN 
FARMS 
WORLD'S LARGEST SOURCE 
100% ORGANIC 
Fruits and vegetables available airfreight. Vegetables and herb seeds. Fertilizers 
available via mail or truck. By ton or sack — Cavern rock potash, trace minerals, 
kelp and rock phosphate. 
Water purifiers, bug lites, sprouting seeds (all varieties), grains, dried fruits, nuts — 
shelled and unshelled. 
Natural jams and jellies from pure organic fruits and berries. 
Potatoes, onions, garlic, shallots, sun chokes (Jerusalem Artichokes). 
Also expert advice for small fee on farm and gardening engineering, including gentle 
rain sprinkler irrigation. 
Now arranging for imported Australian organic meats and sea foods. Hope to import 
canned and dried fruits and vegetables from uncontaminated Australian soil areas. 
Organic gardening pamphlets and booklets. ‘What is a Balanced Soil?” — 504. Rental 
tapes of lectures on organic gardening, seeds, fertilizers, health, nutrition, moon planting, 
magnetic phenomena, frost resistance, 100% protein increases, other futuristic subjects. 
In person lectures with free literature and samples. 
VITA GREEN FARMS 
P. O. Box 878 
Vista, California 92083 
RAVELERS’ 
DIRECTORY: 
ONE NATION UNDERGROUND 
Travelers’ Directory is the international registry of hip 
travelers who enjoy meeting others everywhere, whether 
around the corner or around the world. The book lists 
their names, addresses, telephones, ages, interests, and offers 
of hospitality to other travelers passing through. 
Published annually since 1960, Travelers’ Directory is now 
being published every six months to keep pace with its rapid 
growth. (The number of listings has more than doubled over 
the last two editions.) New listings for the forthcoming 
edition are now being accepted in Directory headquarters in 
New York City. a Sytaoess eae new edition will 
be sent only to those travelers listedin-that edition, so only 
listees will know who else is listed. No extra copies are ever 
printed, so none is available to anyone not listed. Each copy 
of Travelers’ Directory is numbered, bears the listee’s name, 
is neither transferable nor replaceable, and acts as each list- 
ee’s “underground passport” to identify him to all the others 
in the book. 
Lat 
tay 
\ 
2 
om : 
The 
a Le 
LATEST STUPENDOUS EDITION’ 
genuine 
Travelers’ 
Directory 
in the 
universe 
Accept no 
substitutes. , 7 
es 
ravelers’ 
Listees also receive a year’s subscription to the Directory’s 
own magazine, Trips, an entertaining publication written by 
and for the listees themselves. 
It features photo-stories 
about Directory listees, articles about their travel experiences, 
invitations to all listees for free weekend Directory parties 
in different cities, details of the Directory’s charter flights 
and conventions around the globe, plus competitions, humor, 
even gossip. 
Such bonuses, however, are incidental to the primary pur- 
pose of Travelers’ Directory. 
The main reason people decide 
to be tisted is that they enjoy meeting others with similar 
interests wherever they travel. They know they have friends 
to welcome them to any city in the world where there are 
Directory listees, ‘and that seems to be just about everywhere: 
London, Paris, Rome, Stockholm, Bombay, Tokyo, Sydney, 
you name it. Listees live in almost every major country on 
every continent, as well as in such out-of-the-way spots as 
the Canary Islands, the Panama Canal Zone, Hong Kong, 
~ 
even Antarctica. One listee recently toured much of Africa, 
staying with other listees in Uganda, Ghana, Liberia, Sierra 
Leone, and Spanish Morocco. Although listees collectively 
speak dozens of languages, every one speaks English, the 
international language used throughout the Directory. 
The country best represented in the current edition is the 
United States, with hundreds of listings in major cities and 
unpopulated areas in almost every state. 
Listings range 
anywhere from a single address in Topanga Canyon, Calif- 
ornia, to 55 addresses in New York City, so listees traveling 
across America will generally have a large choice of homes 
to visit at each stop. Mutual compatibility is first determined, 
of course, by mail or phone. 
Since a listee must submit his listing himself every time he 
wants it published in the next edition, all addresses and offers 
are current, and couldn't possibly be more than six months 
old. No listing is ever carried over to the next edition auto- 
matically. Despite that policy, many current listees have man- 
aged to be listed in every edition since the first in 1960. We 
must be doing something right. 
Ever since then, when it was founded by underground pub- 
lisher John Wilcock, Travelers’ Directory has been a non: 
profit labor of love. The costs of printing and mailing the 
Directory and magazine are shared by the editor and all the 
listees. Each listing is submitted with a donation of at least 
U.S. $3 to defray some of the production expenses of the 
editor, who receives no salary. 
Those who wish to be included in—and then get a copy of— 
the forthcoming edition may submit the necessary personal 
data, along with up to 100 words describing their interests 
~ and offers of hospitality. Cautious Whole Earth Catalog 
readers may prefer to request further details first, as well as 
back issues of Trips, typical listings, and official listing forms. 
Listings and requests should be sent to: 
Travelers’ Directory, 
51-02 39th Avenue 
Woodside, New York 11377 
