Mies 
ee 
Teg’s 1994 
We’re generally down on Utopian thinking around here, 
holding to a more evolutionary fiasco-by-fiasco approach to 
perfection. Thus Walden Two, Island, Stranger in a Strange 
Land, and Rimmer’s stuff have not been listed. 
They're well 
with a more structural brand of speculation is Theobald & 
Scott et al’s Teg’s 1994. The “book” is an on-going process 
that invites your participation. 
Teg’s 1994 
Robert Theobald & J. M. Scott 
1969; 115 pp. 
1-4 copies 
$5 each postpaid 
: 
5 or more 
$3 each postpaid 
from: 
Personalized Secretarial Services 
5045 North 12th Street 
Phoenix, Arizona 85014 
Village Planning in the Primitive World 
Successful small community design must fit 
the local physical environment and at the same 
time render clear the community’s social system 
and its religious system. 
This book has 78 
pictures and eight detailed written accounts 
of village systems that have worked for bush- 
men, Cheyenne Indians, Trobriand /slanders, 
the Yoruba, Mbuti pygmies, and others. 
The 
systems are diverse, compelling, and mind- 
opening for approaching the design of one’s 
own community. 
Douglas Fraser 
1968; 128 pp. 
from: 
George Braziller 
Extraordinary publication. 
{t’s an on-going bibliography of 
the Subculture for libraries. Every two months there’s an 
issue on a new subject-—Women’s Liberation, Communes, 
Ecology, Indians——with articles, pictures, and fine annotated 
bibliographies, the cheery fruit of solid research. As | under- 
eh 
stand it, the service is only available to libraries: 
free. So 
bug your local library, or, hmm, 1 wonder what it takes to 
start a library. Back issues of Synergy are worth getting. 
ne they answer questions on research problems. 
: 
[Suggested by William Hogan] 
Synergy 
via your local library 
from: 
San Francisco Public Library 
Civic Center 
San Francisco, CA 94102 
The Gateway to Survival is Storage. 
Available through Atlantis 
Enterprises, Ltd., P.O. Box 141, Glendale, Calif. 91209. 34 
p. 
$1.00. 
Written for use by members of the Mormon Church for emergency 
_ 
situations. Much valuable, tested information for the retreater 
who wants to throw off the continuous, conspicuous consumption 
hassle. 
e 
j 
AND NOW THERE ARE TOO MANY HUMAN BEINGS. 
LET US BE ANIMALS OR BUDDHAS INSTEAD. 
Gary Snyder 
known enough anyway. One publication——relatively unknown—— 
[Suggested by Robert Theobald] 
The Nias village plan is not merely modeled on the 
cosmos; it has all the symbolic attributes of the world. 
For example, the stone stairways leading to the 
village are carved with images of crocodiles, lizards, 
and other symbols of the lower world, some of them 
devouring fish, dogs, and other animals. This end 
of the village (jou) is regarded as ‘downstream,’ 
which is synonymous with death, commoners, 
aquatic animals, ‘west’ and ‘north.’ Sibaloi, or 
‘river source, upstream,’ corresponds to life, chief- 
tainship, aerial creatures, ‘east,’ 
The village axis is further conceived of as the sky- 
river, or world axis, which runs between upper world 
and underworld. This sky-river is both the cosmos 
and the world snake (i.e., the Milky Way) that rings 
the world (or village). 
center of the ‘universe,’ the Fuso Newali, at which 
spot the fusion of opposing forces is believed to 
take place. Such joinings or reconciliations 
characterize the climactic moments in Nias thought. 
Village Planning in the 
Primitive World 
$2.95 postpaid 
One Park Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
We do not anticipate that any reader will find his ideal future society 
mirrored in this book because this is not a Utopian description. Teg’s 
1994 sketches a possible future world where the techno-system acts 
merely as infrastructure, expansion and growth are no longer goals 
and human society has reemphasized social interaction through 
worldwide decentralization into small, sub-cultural communities. 
But the process of change is continuing and we are witnesses to 
it through sharing Teg’s thought and experiences throughout her 
year of travel of 1994. 
During her year of travel as an Orwell Fellow, Teg learns that her 
contemporaries’ concept of the ‘communication society” is 
increasingly flawed by interaction failures between diverging 
communities. A full expression of each community’s sub-culture, 
or myth, has been achieved only at the cost of increasing mutual 
incomprehension, and even a re-emergence of an aggressive commun- 
ity ethnocentricism. 
In the last decade of the twentieth century there is a growing aware- 
ness that maximizing social interaction is as much an avoidance of 
the individual's responsibility for full self-development as were 
earlier a reliance on the control-systems of the ““economic mechanism” 
and later the “‘technological imperative.”” As the book ends we 
see Teg and her contemporaries beginning the struggle for full 
human awareness through reappraisal of communication tech- 
niques and a new understanding of the role of the individual as 
a member, not only of a face-to-face community, but also of the 
larger human society——terran society. 
‘south,’ and the sun. 
The world tree grows at the 
Authority in the Bushman band rests with a headman 
who is responsible for controlling food and water 
resources. Headmanship involves no special regalia, 
titles, military or juridical power, and the headman 
receives no particular rewards; the job is inherited 
by the previous headman’s eldest son, unless the 
latter chooses to renounce it by moving to another 
band. The principal task of the headman, apart from 
that of controller of natural resources, is the choosing 
of the site for a new settlement and the kindling of 
the ceremonial fire there. 
If he is too young, too 
weak, or too old to exercise office, the actual role 
of leadership may devolve on another man of de- 
monstrated ability. The headman of a Bushman 
band is therefore only first among equals, and in 
many ways his function is merely that of inventory- 
keeper in an area where the miscalculation of 
resources is tantamount to disaster. 
The majority of the earlier communes were based on religion. The 
Shakers group is a good example of the many new sects who came 
to America, the land of ‘’Liberty’’ and ‘’Equality."” The commune 
lasted for 150 years and made important contributions to American 
crafts and folk art. Their theology is very interesting because of 
their belief in celibacy; in addition, they had a unique theory of the 
bi-sexuality of God, the feminine counterpart of Jesus beinga 
- 
wonderful character named Mother Ann. 
(Appetite whetted for 
further study?) 
All of the religious communes were not so successful, however, the 
majority of them only lasting the lifetime of their leader. The 
Woman in the Wilderness, for instance, composed of 40 men 
(40 seemed a magic number to many of them), had a theology based 
On astronomy, mathematics and astrology and failed soon after 
their leader died an ordinary death and didn’t ascend into Heaven 
as he was supposed to. The Zoarites lasted as long as their 
members remained free from boredom, and failed when the 
young people of the sect began to squabble with the older members. 
Does this sound familiar? 
Bellamy, Edward. ae Backward, 2000-1887. Modern Library, 
1951. 
A wealthy Bostonian awakens to find himself in the year 2000 A.D. 
He falls in love with the great granddaughter of his Bostonian fiancee 
and with her tours the ideal socialistic commonwealth. 
Bellamy’s 
utopia had tremendous impact on social reformers and had hundreds 
of imitators. 
A recent discussion by three of the coordinators of the Mid-Peninsula 
Free University, one of the major ones in the Bay Area, printed in 
their publication, The Free You, produced this conclusion; 
the main 
purpose behind the Free University has been sidetracked, since it has 
never become an integral part of the community, but rather simply 
another form of entertainment. 
It is a ‘‘fun’’ night school which 
attracts many people both by its wide range of courses unavailable 
anywhere else and by its free and casual approach to learning. The 
Free University provides a stimulating evening out rather than a 
meaningful training experience for a new type of society. 
Some of the longer-term residents have begun to question 
1 
- community myth of sea-use, and are proposing a change 
myth of sea co-existence. They wish to convert to a vegetar: 
sea-diet and prevent the eating of fish. Given the fact tha 
pisciculture is presently essential to protein adequacy throu 
the scarcity-regions the other residents think this is unrealist 
There are also a few residents who want to change over compl 
to a myth of sea-adaption. They propose surgical conversion 
the human-being for water-breathing. 
; 
essential if synergetic spirals are to be predominant: 
if the Bei 
synergy-effect is to occur. 
Effective communication depen ob 
these values. 
> 
aly 
It appears to be primarily this understanding whose significance _ 
-f 
R 
has not been fully comprehended in communities around the — 
3 
world. 
It is true that most people recognize that their own 
ie? 
community interaction is only successful when based on th 
values but they have not generally pee that inter-comn 
Another Cheyenne ceremony of comparable sig 
icance was the Sun Dance, which was known 
throughout the Plains. The purpose of this 
rite \ 
world renewal. During the ceremonies the prie 
symbolically recreated the five worlds of the | 
Cheyenne cosmology, beginning with a barren’ ear 
which has to be stocked successively with water, _ 
vegetation, buffalo, and healthy, happy Cheyenne. — 
Another ritual, the Animal Dance, followed as nile 
pattern, although during it there was much clowning 
and good fun. These ceremonies were not necessa! ‘ily 
given annually but depended on the presence of 
individual who pledged himself (particularly whe! 
he or a relative faced death) to undertake the 
responsibilities of sponsoring a particular rite 
ENVIROM is a soft ring of lightweight Bes. Pion 
designed to bring people together i 
in play, seminars, gr 
sensitivity groups. EN V/ROM offers a relaxing and ine. 
pensive alternative to institutional furniture. Constructe 
heavy duty 20 gauge vinyl it withstands the toughest. use. 
Folds to blanket size, weighs 20 lbs. Seats twenty incom- 
— 
fort. 
Envirom 
$60.00 
each 
731 VirginiaStreet 
Berkeley,CA 94710 
Leopold, Aldo. A Sand County Almanac. Oxford Univer Press 
1968. 
A classic, articulate work in ecological ethics. 
: 
e 
peste Eugene. Fundamentals of Ecology. (2nd ed.) Seunde 
text is useful both for understanding some possibilities for 
resolving our conflicts with nature and, more important, f 
exploiters. 
e 
AUDUBON. National Audubon Society, 1130 Fifth Ave., New 
oy 
N. Y. 10028. Bimonthly. $1.50; $8.50 yr. 
4 
The granddaddy of them all, this conservation magazine is a 
to look at and to read. The articles are thoroughly profess 
and the quality of the photography is unsurpassed. Featu: 
“National Outlook” section and book eviews written by 
ities. There are reviews of children’s 
field. A relatively new section i 
is a oI 
