Ad he World Health ones publishes three excellent 
a books on water supply and waste systems. 
. 
z 
-Excreta Disposal for Rural Areas and Small Communities 
_ fs 189 pages of privies, latrines, and septic tanks. 
/t’s.a 
_ book for health officials, and gives good information on 
outhouse-type waste disposal, as well as water-carried 
_ methods 
(5 gallons each flush). 
The most complete information we’ve seen on building a 
_ methane generator is in the book Composting, which 
devotes a whole chapter to the subject. Manure and 
_ shit are placed in a sealed tank, and the anaerobic decom- 
position produces methane gas, which can be used for 
_ heating, cooking, lighting, and to power small engines. 
_ The book deals with the reclamation and recycling of 
wastes, explains the decomposition of organic matter, 
and stresses the importance of sanitation in the process. 
[Suggested by Craige Schensted] 
A few years ago, | spent some time looking for a good book 
on water systems and couldn't find one. Water Supply for 
Rural Areas and Small Communities was just what | was 
looking for. Excellent infosmation on wells, pumps, 
; 
distribution systems, developed springs, and treatment. 
§ The World Health Organization publishes this book and 
_ 
apparently directs it toward underdeveloped areas. Some 
___ 
of their reasons for not recommending certain methods 
and equipment for outlying areas seem to me to be 
_ applicable to developed areas. For instance, treatment 
is recommended only as a last resort because of the 
necessity for trained operators and often expensive 
_ 
equipment. They have found many cases of impure water 
__ in communities where treatment was supposedly taking 
place, but for one reason or another, wasn’t happening. 
Often, no one worries about water pollution if the water 
is being treated. 
Many of the methods and equipment described are not 
much used in the U. S. There is very good information 
on low cost wells. Hand dug, drive point, and jetted. 
Also information on hand pumps. 
[Reviewed by Fred Richardson] 
LEE 
Zeal 
| KE 
; 
Le 
& 
bs 
2 
. 
= 
SKETCH OF MANURE GAS PLANT WITH LATRINES 
The use of anaerobic digestion of organic waste materials, such as 
farm manure, litter, garbage, and night-soil, accompanied by the 
recovery of methane fuel, has been an important development in 
_ furel sanitation during the past 10 to 15 years. This development 
is basically an extension of the anaerobic process for sludge diges- 
_tion used in municipal sewage treatment to small digestion-tank 
installations on farms. These farm plants comprise one or more 
small digesters anda gas-holder. Manure and other wastes are 
_ placed in a tank which is sealed from atmospheric oxygen, and 
are permitted to digest anaerobically. The methane gas, which 
is produced during the anaerobic decomposition of the carbon- 
aceous materials, is collected in the gas-holder for use as fuel for 
_ cooking, lighting, refrigeration, and heating, and for other domestic 
or agricultural purposes, such as providing power for small engines. 
Manhole for looding 
Thick coat of, 
cement-sand-lime ploster 
a 
PSN 
RI SSSA 
a. 
A 
\) 
( hoice fearing on whether the single fens has sufficient 
i manure and other wastes to operate a unit. A minimum single 
fan 
tion would normally include a digester tank of 
capacity and a gas-holder of at least 2 m~ 
capacity. - 
ore digesters are desirable so that there will not be an 
ion of gas production and so that one tank may be loaded 
e 
the other is digesting. A single gas-holder can serve more 
digester unit. !f two or more families living in adjacent 
have not more than one farm animal each, it may be 
‘© combine their wastes in one digester installation 
jas could be distributed to each dwelling. 
Composting 
th 
¥ ‘Se 
Attention: Communes, extended familes, groups, 
tribes, families, loners 
PEOPLE: 
Subject: Health & Sanitation or Sanitation & Health 
It is rapidly becoming clear that if we do not pay 
attention to some basic facts about health & its 
relation to sanitation we are going to have some 
problems. 
These problems will not/cannot & won't 
go away. Neither can we. 
There is no where to go. 
People thru out time/space have all ways had to deal 
with these problems. 
SO 
People eat food which maintains body which rejects 
what it can’t use as waste. 
What to do with it 
OR 
How to get rid of it 
The easiest way is to leave it where you laid it. Prob- 
lem: someone else-has to cope. Don’t pass your 
load on. 
We are all one. 
What’s yours is mine. An 
other easy is to put it in the river/stream/ditch. 
You re still passing on your load. Remember water 
equals life. Who wants to drink water with yr. load 
init. 
There is a good solution: put it in the ground. 
Give it back to mother nature; she can use it 
(Nitrogen, etc. ). 
[Part of a notice from Lama Foundation by Steve Durkee] 
EXORLEA DISROSM 
FOR KOKA 
AREAS AND. 
SYA OEOMMENEDES 
* Composting 
Harold B. Gotaas 
' 1956; 205 pp. 
$5.00 postpaid 
* Excreta Disposal for Rural Areas and Small Communities 
E. G. Wagner’ & J. N. Lanoix 
1958; 187 pp. 
$5.00 postpaid 
* Water Baise for Rural Areas and Small Communities 
E. G. Wagner & J. N. Lanoix 
1959; 340 pp. 
$6.75 postpaid 
all three from: 
The American Public Health Association 
1740 Broadway 
New York, N. Y. 10019 
x 
” 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
A reasonably safe way for a villager to prepare excreta for use as 
fertilizer is for him to compost it in a privy pit. After the required 
period of composting, the pit can be emptied, thus eliminating 
the handling of the raw excreta. 
... 
1. Dig a pit of required size, the bottom of which should always be 
above ground-water level. 
2. Before the slab is placed, cover the bottom 50 cm (20 in.) of the 
pit with grass cuttings, fine leaves, garbage, paper, etc.; but allow no 
rubbish such as metal cans, glass bottles, or similar materials to be 
deposited therein. 
3. Place slab, and complete superstructure, keeping in mind that 
they will both be moved periodically to another site. 
4. In addition to depositing human excrement, throw the daily 
garbage into the pit, along with cow, horse, sheep, chicken, and 
pig manure, as well as urine-soaked earth or straw. The latter 
materials are important, as urine is rich in nitrogen, an essential 
plant nutrient. 
5. About once a week throw a few kilograms of grass clippings and 
fine-texture leaves into the pit. After some experimentation, one can 
arrive at a pit mixture which will provide a good fertilizer. 
6. When the pit’s contents reach a level of 50 cm (20 in.) below 
ground, a new pit is dug 1.50-2 m (5-6.5 ft) away (more if desired), 
and the superstructure and slab are moved over it. The first pit is 
leveled, finally, with 15 cm (6 in.) of grass clippings and leaves, and 
the top 35 cm (14 in.) with well-tamped earth. 
7. When the second pit is filled as indicated above, the first pit is 
uncovered and the compost removed. 
It should be stable, and will 
provide a good fertilizer which can be applied immediately to the 
fields or stored. 
... 
Before applying or recommending this method in a rural area where 
it is not familiar, it is desirable to try it first on a pilot scale under 
adequate control in order to determine the proper operating schedule 
and materials suitable and available in the area under consideration. 
The collaboration of agricultural officials and of local leaders among 
the farmers of the area is necessary. 
Excreta Disposal 
Fig. 33. PROPERLY PROTECTED SPRING (I) 
Protective drainage ditch to keep drainage water a safe distance from spring 
Original slope and ground line 
Screened outlet pipe : can discharge freely or be piped to village or residence 
OB>yD 
Springs can offer an economical and safe source of water. 
A thorough search should 
be made for signs of ground-water outcropping. 
Springs that can be piped to the user by 
gravity offer an excellent solution. 
Rainfall variation may influence the yield, so dry- 
weather flow should be checked. 
Hand-dug wells naturally have certain limitations. While successful 
wells have been sunk in special circumstances to depths of over 120m 
(400 ft), half that distance is usually considered the limit of practical 
sinking. 
e 
The first consideration, then, in designing a well is its diameter; 
neglecting for the moment large-diameter wells built for special 
purposes, the size of a completed well represents 
a compromise 
between economic and practical considerations. 
It has been found 
that the cost of a lined well varies almost exactly with its diameter, 
taking into accofint the increased thickness of lining necessary in a 
larger well. The minimum diameter is limited by the room available 
for 
aman or men to work; experiments show that a diameter of about 
1 m (3% ft) is necessary for one man and about 1.3 m (4% ft) for 
two men. 
It has been found that the efficiency of two sinkers 
working together is more than twice that of a single man, and con- 
sequently a 1.3-m (4%-ft) diameter is a convenient standard size. 
Other considerations affecting this decision are the greater natural 
ventilation of the larger hole, the more efficient size of the kibbles 
(hoisting buckets) and other equipment which can be used in it, 
the additional room for concreting operations and insertion of 
caisson rings, and the possibility of using orange-peel grabs if 
desired. 
On the other hand, an increase in diameter beyond 1.3m 
(4% ft) does not appear to give any great constructional advantages. 
The quantity of water from a spring can very often be substantially 
increased by digging out the area around the spring down to an 
impervious layer to remove silt, decomposed rock, and other rock 
fragments and mineral matter (usually calcium carbonate) some- 
times deposited by the emerging ground water. 
In doing this, 
particular care should be taken, especially in fissured limestone 
areas, to avoid disturbing underground formations to the extent 
that the spring is deflected in another direction of into other 
fissures. 
e 
Energy which Nature has provided, such as the wind, should be 
taken advantage of whenever possible. 
|n many Northern European 
and Western Hemisphere countries, wind energy is used for pumping 
water for farms, homes, and small communities. 
This method is 
excellent for obtaining a steady flow of water from a well at a 
very low cost. 
For proper operation, the following conditions must be met: 
(1) winds of more than 8 km per hour during at least 60% of 
the time; 
(2) available windmill equipment; 
(3) wells that can be pumped for many hours’ duration each day; 
(4) storage capacity of three days’ supply (or more) to take 
advantage of long pumping periods and to provide for calm 
periods when there is no wind; 
(5) clear sweep of wind to the windmill. This can be obtained 
by the use of a tower to raise the windmill 4.5-6 m (15 20 ft) 
Or more above the surrounding obstacles. 
.Water Supply 
The Canadian Department of National Health and 
Welfare puts out a free simple book on sanitation, intended 
for remote northern areas. 
It has good clear diagrams of 
septic tanks, privies, and chemical toilets. 
There is also 
information on heating, lighting, water supply, and 
sanitation. 
Funky. 
2 Mm EARTH COVER OVER SEPTIC TANK 
= i 
i 
fe Keni 
| 
| 
ies 
SEPTIC TANK SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM 
a 
oo 
ales 
ae 
* Sanitation Manual for Isolated Regions 
1967; 64 pp. 
free 
from: 
Department of National Health and Welfare 
Ottowa, Ontario, CANADA 
