~ 
grade 
and high school | was taught how to hate Shake- 
are, most novelists, and all poetry. College merely 
nished my ignorance, adding the ability to hate in 
ich, Ezra Pound, where were you when | needed you? 
rough Pound, literature becomes a place to revel, con- 
[Suggested by Frank Deis] 
EZRA POUND 
ABC 
of Reading 
ra Pound 
34; 206 pp. 
OF READING 
1.60 postpaid 
m: 
ew Directions Publishing Corp. 
J. B. Lippincott Co. 
East Washington Square 
[Philadelphia, PA 19105 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
2 
F 
‘Culture is Our Business 
Luhan’s best format. Each pair of pages has a reprint of 
an ad on the right, and fresh McLuhan aphorisms, quotes, 
land misquotes on the left. The resu/ting energy across the 
read is economic and multi-directional——i.e. you make 
Pound's statement (above) about Chaucer and Shake- 
eare applies as well to McLuhan. 
me he is as valuable. His news stays news. 
from: 
McGraw-Hill Book Co. 
Princeton Road 
Hightstown, N. J. 08520 
Manchester Road 
Manchester, Mo. 63062 
8171 Redwood Highway 
Novato, CA 94947 
jarshall McLuhan 
970; 336 pp. 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
are the cave art of the twentieth century. 
While the Twenties 
alked about the caveman, and people thrilled to the art of the 
tra caves, they ignored (as we do now) the hidden environ- 
ment of magical forms which we call “ads.”’ Like cave paintings, 
are not intended to be looked at or seen, but rather to exert 
influence at a distance, as though by ESP. Like cave paintings, 
‘with his mother’s TV.” He is gray at three. By twelve he 
mfirmed Peter Pan, fully aware of the follies of adults and 
ife in general. These could be called Spock’s Spooks, who 
d artists live on frontiers. They have no feedback, 
forward. They have no identities. They are probes. 
Wea 
It doesn’t, in our contemporary world, so much matter where 
you begin the examination of a subject, so long as you keep on 
until you get round again to your starting-point. 
Language is a means of communication. To charge language 
with meaning to the utmost possible degree, we have, as stated, 
the three chief means: 
I throwing the object (fixed or moving) on to the visual 
imagination. 
~ 
II inducing emotional correlations by the sound and rhythm 
of the speech. 
III inducing both of the effects by stimulating the associations 
(intellectual or emotional) that have remained in the receiver's 
consciousness in relation to the actual words or word groups 
employed. 
(phanopoeia, melopoeia, logopoeia) 
Incompetence will show in the use of too many words. 
The reader's first and simplest test of an author will be to look 
for words that do not function; that contribute nothing to the 
meaning OR that distract from the MOST important factor of 
the meaning to factors of minor importance. 
Psyehically, art is valuable only when new. 
‘Literature is news that STAYS news.’ 
The man who really knows can tell all that is transmissible in a 
very few words. The economic problem of the teacher (of violin 
or of language or of anything else) is how to string it out’so as 
to be paid for more lessons. 
Men do not understand BOOKS until they have had a certain 
amount of life. Or at any rate no man understands a deep book, 
until he has seen and lived at least part of its contents. The 
prejudice against books has grown from observing the Stupidity 
of men who have merely read books. 
Chaucer and Shakespeare have both an insuperable courage in 
tackling any, but absolutely any, thing that arouses their interest. 
The sonnet was first the ‘little tune’, the first strophe of a canzone, 
the form found when some chap got so far and couldn't proceed. 
Steadily in the wake of the sonneteers came the dull poets. 
Invention is the mother of necessity. 
2 
COMMERCIALLY, NEW ART IS KOOKY AND WORTHLESS. 
The gap between the kooky and the. commercially 
valuable is closing fast. 
5 
7 
\ 
_ 
“Weill return to our. 
commercials after this 
brief word from the 
program...” 
: 
Maybe the world’s oldest television 
joke isn't a joke any more. 
‘Are 30 program interruptions an hour 
on daytime television really funny? 
Suppose you're a housewife who's 
‘mentally ‘tuned-out’ because the 
interruptions have become annoying? 
~ And what if you're an advertiser, and 
one of those interruptions is your very 
rates have risen an estimated 822. 
Production costs have soared, too. $40,000 
to make one commercial isn’t unusual. 
‘Television can be a highly effective 
advertising medium. No 
one will deny *hat. 
But the overcrowding, the clutter, has 
reached the point where its effectiveness 
and efficiency must now be questioned. 
You can’t saturate a magazine. 
For one thing, magazines can print as 
to seeing ads in magazines. 
Every month, for example, almost 13 
million adult women look forward to seeing 
your advertising in Good Housekeeping. 
What's more, they're predisposed to 
believe it. 
Our believability, combined with our 
rather impressive statistics, has caused a 
number of thoughtful businessmen to 
consider a better balanced media mix. 
persuasive, very expensive commercial? 
How 
i ve can your mesnage be if 
"many pages asthey want-Andtheycan 
With Good Housekeeping as a prime 
it's preceded by 
anoth 
mercial, and 
‘increase their editorial content,to 
femnatiately Sbowed by 
two 
rere 
maintain a good balance between editorial 
Wenow return you to your morning 
and advertising. 
‘And magazine ads don't intrude. People 
can read them when they feel like it 
‘Come back to them. Tear them out. 
In fact, most people actually look forward 
And in light of 
the cost, how efficient? 
In the last five years, daytime television 
NBC and CBS could easily become the political ‘‘parties’’ of the 
future, just as the New York Central and the Pennsylvania rail- 
roads were once the political parties of the nineteenth century. 
“Wiretapping,” quoth the raven, “‘is a threat to identity. 
Why not beat ’em to the wire? Get rid of your identity now.” 
When the evolutionary process shifts from biology to soft- 
ware technology the body becomes the old hardware environ- 
ment. The human body is now a probe, a laboratory for 
experiments. 
In the middle of the ninettenth century Claude 
Bernard was the first medical man to conceive of /e milieu 
interieur. He saw the body, not as an outer object, but as an 
inner landscape, exactly as did the new painters and poets 
of the avant garde. 
GOING, GOING, GONG 
' 
If nature didn't, Warner's will. 
Our stretch-banded Youny Thing” bra will do it for $5. Our Youny Thing girdle will do it fur 89. Naroecs* 
ase 
03? 
Since Sputnik there is no Nature. Nature is an 
item contained in a man-made environment 
of satellites and information. Goals have 
now fo be replaced by the sensory reprogram- 
ming of total 
environments and DNA particles, 
alike. The earth is an old nose cone. 
