Ps 
_ Parable of the Beast 
if you are into molecular memory, chemical communication, 
slime mold colonies, time pulse perception, third eyes, acid, 
_ 
serotonin, intramural aggression, and other types of meta- 
mysticism, then bleibtreu probably has something for you, 
too. 
he’s trying to put instincts back into science and take a little 
of the speculation out of the name “Homo sapiens”, through 
an introduction to the study of ethology. 
readable, maybe reliable. 
oh 
_ 
[Reviewed by J. D. Smith. Suggested by 
David Schwartz] 
The Parable of the Beast 
a 
John N. Bleibtreu 
“Exteel relevant 
1968; 304 pp. 
$1.50 postpaid’ 
_ from: 
| 
Collier Books 
; 
866 Third Avenue 
4] 
: 
New York, N. Y. 10022 
‘Man's veal 
at abana 
relatos 
to be 
or WHOLE EARTH cs 
* 
The Rise of the West 
One humanity, one history, one fat little book. Some 
familiarity with world history will not help you to avoid 
mistakes, but it may help you recognize them and thus 
move on to more original ones. 
[Suggested by Jib Fowles] 
a 
OR SHE 
e Rise of the West 
W. H. McNeill 
- 
W E ST 
1963; 896 pp. 
A HISTORY 
oO} 
$1.65 postpaid 
THE 
WAM 
AVN 
COMMUNITY 
‘Wo H. MeNEILL 
from: 
The New American Library, Inc. 
1301 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, N. Y. 10019 
. Human Use of the Earth 
To get a handle on your future you've got to get outside your- 
self, because only from outside can you see your space-time 
environment whole. One way is to identify out into another 
culture, Indian or whatever (this is Jim Nixon’s idea). Another 
way is to take Philip Wagner's trip into fascinated objectivity 
about Earthly doings. In this book he merges some of the 
: 
‘best of geographical and anthropological perspective into a 
2 
detailed treatise on the Earth as tool, how it is used and how 
to understand it better to use it better. 
THE HUMAN USE 
OF THE EARTH 
PHILLIP WAGNER 
‘An examination 
of the interaction 
between man and his 
physical environment 
The Human Use of the Earth 
Philip Wagner 
1960; 270 pp.. 
$1.95 postpaid 
— from: 
There is no longer any doubt whatever that among existing verte- 
brates anatomical structures are homologous, and that those two 
bones——the radius and the ulna——are homologous in the wing 
of a bird, the foreleg of adog, and the arm of 
ahuman. The whole 
science of ethology is committed to the accumulation of sufficient 
behavioral data from all animal phyla, so that theoretical models of 
the evolution of behavior may be constructed. 
Our technological control of our environment puts us into an 
ambiguous relationship with that environment; similar to that 
odd and destructive relationship that arises between a jailer and 
his prisoner. 
|t seers as though the more control the jailer 
exercises, the more a strange kind of perverse love, a love that 
thrives on injury, grows between him and his charge. As the 
relationship develops, the prisoner often becomes the stronger 
of the two, inflicting by his very passivity the greater hurt. 
So we, as we control the environment, have gradually become the 
victims of our own control. The role of cycles in our lives, being 
natural, should be a joyous source of strength. Generally, how- 
ever, we do not acknowledge their existence at all, and when we 
do, we see these cyclical changes in ourselves as impediments to 
our efficiency. 
: 
e 
The act of sharing food with one another seems to be one of the 
principal bases for creating societies, whether they be of the insect 
or human variety. 
It was over this ancient issue of sharing food 
that human beings in twentieth-century America suddenly found 
themselves behaving more like insects than like creatures in God's 
image and endowed (at least by Linnaeus) with sapience. 
White Americans did not want to include Negroes within their 
society, and they understood at some infinitely deep intuitive 
level that if they went so far as to share food with the Negro, 
they could no longer effectively exclude him from the societal 
organism. 
. 
Ole 
fos 
8 
Mau 
ey 
Rost 
the New World, the so-called ‘‘classic’’ period of the Amerindian 
ilizations continued in full bloom for several centuries after 600 
-D. In Guatemala and adjacent parts of Mexico, classic Mayan 
ult centers increased in number and complexity. Then, about the 
middle of the ninth century, Mayan temples began to be abandoned, 
one by one, and jungle grew back over the vast courtyards, roadways, 
and steps pyramids, Yet there is no reason to suppose that the 
Mayan populations abandoned the region. Perhaps raids from the 
north destroyed the prestige of gods who failed to protect their 
people from merely human enemies. Or invaders may have captured 
and sacrificed the corps of ritual experts, thus preventing the 
continuance of the old elaborate cults, even if the common people 
still retained full faith in them. 
But, in view of the absence of any 
signs of violence at the deserted sites, it is more probably that the 
priestly specialists simply failed to prevent the spread of a simpler, 
popular religion that allowed individual farmers to assure the fertility 
of their maize fields by appropriate private ceremonies, thus render- 
ing the priests’ costly ritual services otiose. 
In the sixteenth century, 
European intruders found just such a private cult among the Mayan 
peoples, which (whenever it was introduced) obviously made the 
elaborate temple centers of an earlier age permanently unnecessary. 
The fact that even the best laid plans for directing human affairs 
still often fail may turn out to be humanity’s saving grace. 
As we shall see, one of the strategies by which supplies of goods and 
services become available for actual use is the movement of the would- 
be consumers themselves to the sources of goods or services, There 
are even Objects that act as containers of man himself, which move 
over land, across water or through the air, delivering the individual 
to the places at which he can obtain goods he desires, or where he 
will be served as he wishes. 
e 
The modern inhabitant of a commercial country does not make his 
world; he buys it. The material circumstances of his life are not the 
outcome of his individual encounter with the natural order, but arise 
out of his relations with the social order. 
° 
Ecologically speaking, even very primitive man is an extremely far- 
ranging creature. Men have migrated far more widely than almost 
any other animals. 
Man has been described as a ‘tool-using animal,’ but as is well known, 
. many other higher mammals can employ natural objects spontane- 
ously as tools, Tool making, however, is peculiar to man. 
Manufacture adds vastly to the wealth upon which men can draw by 
making more things usable. 
|t confers the status of resources upon 
things that are of no benefit to any other animal. 
i
Se 
In ordinary human affairs, 
a breakdown in communication is 
generally considered catastrophic. But from the point of view 
of the taxonomist something new and different can only begin 
to occur just at that moment when communications finally do 
break down for good, when a splinter portion of the population 
finds itself so alienated from the parent group that it turns away 
and in upon itself, and in the process develops some new and 
special characters. 
C) 
That traces of territorial marking instincts still persist among humans 
,can be established by a wealth of detail. For example the ‘’Kilroy 
Was Here” drawings of World War I! are undoubtedly territorial 
markings. The keepers of public monuments fight a losing battle 
against the scrawled, carved, scratched legends that visitors leave. 
But perhaps the most directly territorial marking by humans is 
the urinal graffiti. As with animals, it is the male of the human 
species who is the most ardent marker; and the compulsion 
to 
mark insulting legends on the walls of urinals seemingly transects 
all economic classes and educational levels. 
It is as one ascends the ladder of psychological complexity, as one 
P 
observes animals up through the class of mammals, up through the 
order of primates, finally reaching man, that one finds what seems 
to be a progressive blurring of that which is innate, or given 
by the genetic heritage, and what is the individual response to 
individual experience. 
But “blurring” is a poor metaphor; it seems more like an alternation, 
or oscillation——an oscillation between the historical past embedded 
within the very flesh and bone, and the perceived existential present. 
At each moment of our becoming (becoming older, wiser, other 
than what we were in the previous moment) we are being acted upon 
alternately by a pulse of autochthonous existence and a pulse of 
consciously perceived and intellectually evaluated existence; each 
alternating pulse modifying the next, so that, as with the sound of 
a flute, we are conscious, finally, only of the continuum, the thin, 
beautiful, and resonant sound of the self——the self, alive. 
Once their intellectual curiosity 
a 
had been aroused, Westerners 
\ 
discovered that the Moslems pos- 
sessed a sophistication of mind and 
richness of learning far surpassing 
that available in Latin. Regular 
schools of translators therefore 
set eagerly to work to bring the 
treasures of Arabic learning to the 
Latin world. Toledo became the 
principal seat of this activity; but 
parallel work was done also in 
Sicily and, on a smaller scale, at 
Salerno, Salamanca, and Venice. 
The translators sought useful 
knowledge and were little con- 
cerned with belles-lettres. 
Hence 
they concentrated on works of 
medicine, mathematics, astronomy, 
optics, philosophy, and encyclopedic 
collections of information about 
the natural and supernatural world. 
+s 
feogte 
‘ 
ALLE 
LEED 
LEI 
IEE 
cs 
Men some centuries from now will 
surely look back upon our time as 
a golden age of unparalleled tech- 
nical, intellectual, institutional, 
and perhaps even of artistic 
creativity. 
Life in Demosthenes’ 
Athens, in Confucius’ China, and 
in Mohammed's Arabia was violent, 
risky, and uncertain; hopes strug- 
gled with fears, greatness teetered 
perilously on the brim of disaster. 
We belong in this high company 
and should count ourselves for- 
tunate to live in one of the great 
ages of the world. 
Those same features of the most complex human communities which 
indicate their ecological advantages also suggest an unusual degree of 
inherent ecological risk. Such communities are complex and delicate- 
ly balanced, and depend utterly upon their artificiality. They and 
the individuals in them are threatened by the same biological 
penalties that attend an: highly specialized system or species, Their 
very technical perfection may destroy them in time as other high 
specializations have destroyed many former species of animals and 
plants, 
The individual organism must, on the one hand, be specialized 
enough in function to exploit some particular conditions in the 
habitat, so as to occupy a niche that no other organism can contest 
with it; and it must, on the other hand, possess enough versatility to 
adapt to any conditions of environment that may impinge upon its 
C 
life activities. These two requirements may be thought of as polar 
extremes of a continuous scale, and every species may be placed 
somewhere along the scale between specialization and versatility. 
Some of the disadvantages of commitment to either specialization or 
versatility are overcome by aggregation of organisms into larger groups 
within the community. 
‘ 
ay 
11 
