Farts 
hs’ domain is the interface of individual'‘mind and 
ind——control. When social controls become demented, 
the individual must break from them and find his 
ealth. This book is a discussion of the control-busting 
iques Burroughs has explored: Scientology’s E-meter, 
version, violence, doing nothing, tape recorders, 
phine, contradictory commands. All methods of 
he social tools and turning them against them- 
p 
t research in a critical, invisible realm. My 
carp would be Burroughs’ assumption of crafty, subtle, 
it intellects behind society’s controls... which 
es Burroughs but hardly describes the tired men 
en earnestly coping with the top jobs in the Pentagon 
{the Department of the Interior. 
Their main activity is 
rying 
not to fall over their own feet. 
The Job: Interviews 
with William S. Burroughs 
Daniel Odier 
1970 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
Grove Press, Inc. 
80 University Place 
New York, N. Y..10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
kido 
is the most recent and most brilliantly conceived of the 
jese martial arts. A superb fighting technique, it is 
terested in fighting——it doesn’t even have matches, 
ing. You train to put your mind and body in the 
€ place for once——the one-point at your center of gravity. 
u 
train to acquire and direct Ki——energy (not strength, 
oherent energy. when it’s flowing you don’t have to 
| 
move) ay You train to blend, with your opponent and use his 
energy to unhinge his attack. | find this book by two 
] 
sans 
to be far more useful for learning aikido than 
merous texts by Japanese students of the original 
Morihei Vyeshiba. The illustrations here are 
Undly better than the usual photographs. 
They 
the mental image——which is the heart of aikido 
igue. An editor can use aikido, a general, an actor, 
man, a politician, a designer. What the body 
Aikido and the Dynamic Sphere 
A. Westbrook and O. Ratti 
1970; 375 pp. 
$8.50 postpaid 
§ from: 
Charles E. Tuttle Co. 
Rutland, Vermont 05701 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Be stably centralized, 
inwardly and outwardly, 
in the lower abdomen! 
tre must become the center of your attacker's 
Ee rhe Centre is not restricted in aikido, as we have 
your personal dimension. 
If aman attacks you, he 
nt of independence and balance by the very 
act, and you must substitute your own 
‘0 
return the situation to normal. Thus he 
lunges into a vacuum, you lead and 
our own Centre and 
neutralize his 
ae 
oe 
Control the Attack by Leading it. 
“Navigare necesse es. 
Vivare no es necesse.”’ 
“It Is necessary to travel. 
It is not necessary to live.’’ These words 
inspired early navigators when the vast frontier of unknown seas 
_ 
opened to their sails in the fifteenth century. Space is the new 
frontier. 
Is this frontier open to youth? | quote from the London 
Express, December 30, 1968: 
“‘If you are a fit young man under 
twenty-five with lightning reflexes who fears nothing in heaven or 
on the earth and has a keen appetite for adventure don’t bother 
to apply for the job of astranaut.’’. They want ‘cool dads" trailing 
wires to the ‘‘better half’’ from an aqualung. 
Doctor Paine of the 
Space Center in Houston says: 
‘This flight was a triumph for the 
squares of this world who aren‘t hippies and work with slide rules 
and aren't ashamed to say a prayer now and then.” 
Is this the great 
adventure of space? Are these men going to take the step into 
regions literally unthinkable in verbal terms? To travel in space you 
must leave the old verbal garbage behind: God talk, country talk, 
mother talk, love talk. You must learn to exist with no religion no 
country no allies. You must learn to live alone in silence. Anyone 
who. prays in space is not there. 
The last frontier is being closed to-youth. However there are many 
roads to space. To achieve complete freedom from past conditioning 
is to be in space, Techniques exist for achieving such freedom. These 
techniques are being concealed and withheld. 
In The Job | consider 
techniques of discovery. 
, 
e 
Why then does the subject when he is trying most desperately to 
make a good impression make the worst impression possible? 
Because he also has the goal to make a bad impression which oper- 
ates on an involuntary automatic level. This self-destructive goal 
is such a threat to his being that he reacts against it. He may be 
conscious or partially conscious of the negative goal but he cannot 
confront it directly. The negative goal forces him to react. The 
Reactive Mind consists of goals so repulsive or frightening to the 
subject that he compulsively reacts against them and it is precisely 
this reaction that keeps these negative goals in operation. 
e 
" 
“ 
We take karate and Aikido training in the schools scattered through 
large cities of the world, our Scientology training at Scientology 
centers. Other courses are provided by a network of institutes and 
foundations often short-lived. The training is often interrupted. 
Three months of karate then Scientology take up all my time and 
just before the advanced Scientology courses | am shifted to Cairo 
for an intensive course in Egyptian hieroglyphs. This center is closed 
down by the government. After that there is a weapons course 
financed by a rightist billionaire in East Texas where we learn to. 
use every weapon from a crossbow to a laser gun, a seminar in black 
magic of Africa sponsored by an ethnology institute in London that 
is always short of funds, a volunteer experiment in prolonged sense 
withdrawal set up by the U. S. Navy which ended in a Congressional 
investigation of brainwashing, a free fall club in North Dakota, skin 
diving and just when | am getting used to the aqualung we are thrown 
out of Ceylon where the program is and | do a Yoga stint in Northern 
India. 
Your Centre may be located almost directly beneath him or at his 
side, but it is always the Centre of a dynamic circle along whose 
fringes your attacker will be forced to spin without any possibility 
of controlling his motions. 
Ki is accumulated, in fact, in the Centre, where its full coordination 
is achieved. 
The two concepts——that of the Centre and that of 
intrinsic, inner, or total energy——are thus really one: —the Centre, 
vitally active and ever expanding through this form of energy; the 
energy, fully coordinated and stabilized in the Centre (centralized 
energy). The entire body of the student seems to become a compact 
source of power, without undue emphasis upon individual parts 
of that body acting or performing on their own. 
In this context, 
ki can also be qualified as “‘global’’ energy, ‘‘total extension,"’ or 
“full coordination of powers.” 
ce 
ora 
A blow may_be delivered to your head (attack no. 13, shomen uchi). 
You will pivot and kneel down, so that you are facing the same 
direction as your opponent. Your arm(s) will not “block” in the 
sense of stopping his motion, but will be extended so as to protect 
yourself. At the same time you will guide his motion (via his wrist 
or even sleeve) from the inside, lead him in full, circular extension 
forward and then down. This can be accomplished almost without 
touching him. 
There is no pulling, no dragging; it is just a smooth, simple, circular 
lead, synchronized perfectly with your attacker's own movements. 
It is blended dynamically with them and, therefore, almost unnoticed 
until he is in flight. He falls, but yet does not know precisely how 
he came to fall. 
Se 
: 
238 
The aim of academy training is precisely decountrol of opinion, the 
~ 
students being conditioned to /ook at the facts before formulating 
any verbal patterns. The initial training in non-chemical methods 
- 
’ 
of expanding awareness would last at least two years. 
During this 
period the student would be requested to refrain from all drugs 
including alcohol since bodily health is essential to minimize mental 
disturbance. 
After basic training the student would be prepared for 
drug trips to reach areas difficult to explore by other means in the 
present state of our knowledge. 
The program proposed is essentially a disintoxication from inner 
fear and inner control, a liberation of thought and energy to 
prepare a new generation for the adventure of space. With’such 
possibilities open to them | doubt if many young people would 
want the destructive drugs. 
Remember junk keeps you right 
here in junky flesh on this earth where Boot's is open all night. 
You can’t make space in an aqualung of junk. 
the more people we can get working with tape recorders the more ~ 
useful experiments and extensions will turn up why not give tape 
recorder parties every guest arrives with his recorder and tapes of. 
what he intends to say at the party recording what other recorders 
say to him it is the height of rudeness not to record when addressed 
directly by another tape recorder and you can’t say anything 
directly have to record it first the coolest old tape worms never 
talk direct 
© 
After the baptism of silence the student moves with ease*in the 
soundless medium but words are at his disposition when he needs 
them to be used with absolute precision. 
: 
Society makes all these criminals quite deliberately, these great 
concentration camps, where they dump people known as criminals. 
Many of them are psychopaths, that is, they are refractory to 
control. As soon as they become criminals, there will be no more 
trouble from them at all. They’re right in that game of cops arid 
robbers for life, in a. concentration camp. But now they‘ve begun 
extending this concentration camp, extending it and extending it, 
by making more laws and making more people criminals, if all the 
laws were enforced, they'd have practically everyone in the zoncen- 
tration camp, and everyone else would be necessary to guard them. 
They have reached an impasse::ithey must either admit that the 
whole thing is a farce and that laws are not meant to be enforced, 
or change them, or enforce them. 
e 
= 
Q: The Scandinavian countries are often cited as examples of 
successful countries. 
A: 
It's an easy job; it’s smaller. 
For example, in Denmark, they’ve 
got 4 million people, who are more or less homogeneous. They 
don’t have a crime problem, you can’t commit a crime in Denmark, 
everyone would know about it right away. They don’t have any 
slums. They don’t have any underworld, no place where people 
could dispose of stolen goods, they've really made crime, on any 
scale, impossible there. Of course, they have a very enlightened 
penal system for the people who do commit crimes, the occasional 
murder, same as in Sweden. They're simply smaller, more homo- 
geneous countries and it’s much easier to control the factors. 
There's no poverty there, you’re not.allowed to be poor. People 
are not very happy, but they're certainly well taken care of. 
Q: Are they happy anywhere? 
A: They’re certainly. happier in Spain with all the poverty than 
they are in Sweden with all the prosperity and their high living 
standard. 
Humanitas Systems 
John Holt recommended their New Math Primer, so / wrote 
for it, and here came a catalog of very far out gear——a motion 
sensor ($40), galvanic skin response meter ($50), random 
light box ($25), radar surveillance system ($795), signal 
delay device ($50), audible alpha wave sensor ($225). 
Catalog 
free 
from: 
Humanitas Systems 
Green Valley School, Inc. 
Box 606 
Orange City, Florida 32763 
* 
Psychophysics Labs 
Another source for physical feedback and control devices. 
Their skin galvanometer is $45, their alpha wave sensor 
is $170. 
They have a shocker for $55. All prices postpaid. 
, [Suggested by Alta Remail] 
from: 
Psychophysics Labs 
31 Townsend Terrace 
Framingham, Mass. 01701 
