j Bs, it ae es re wee 
a, = 
eg 
The Natural Way to Draw - 
- 
“ 
ve Drawing 
a deeper and wider kind of writing. 
It’s 
better communication in many ways than writing, 
and it’s much closer to your mind. (The same goes 
for music and speech). 
- This classic work by an outstanding art teacher is 
‘not only the best how-to book on drawing, it is the 
_ best how-to book we’ve seen on any subject. 
[Suggested by Roy Sebern] 
The job of the teacher, as | see it, is to teach students, not 
how to draw, but how to learn to draw. 
You SHOULD DRAW, NOT WHAT THE THING LOOKS LIKE, NOT EVEN WHAT 
IT Is, BUT WHAT IT Is DOING. Feel how the figure lifts or droops — pushes 
forward here — pulls back there — pushes out here 
— drops down easily 
there. Suppose that the model takes the pose of a fighter with fis‘s clenched 
and jaw thrust forward angrily. Try to draw the actual thrust of the jaw, 
the clenching of the hand. A drawing of prize fighters should show the 
push, from foot to fist, behind their blows that makes them hurt. 
In contour drawing you touch the edge of the 
Sorm. 
In gesture drawing you feel the movement of 
the whole. 
THE SOONER YOU MAKE YOUR FIRST FIVE THOUSAND 
MISTAKES, THE SOONER YOU WILL BE ABLE TO CORRECT 
THEM. 
Art and illusion 
So ih art criticism is so much a vapid waste of time that 
_ 
a book like this one is thoroughly a shock. Every page 
_____ 
yields fresh information (did you know that the comic 
j strip was singlehandedly invented by a Swiss gent named 
h 
TOpfler in the 1820's?) and worthwhile hypotheses 
E 
about how art and artists gradually teach themselves 
| energies of effect. Furthermore the book is a bargain— 
| it has 319 fine illustrations, 18 in color. 
an 
Art and Illusion 
¥ 
E. H. Gombrich 
te 
1960, 1961; 466 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
E. H. GOMBRICH 
7 
ART AND ILLUSION 
A Study in the Psychology of 
Pictorial Representation 
Princeton University Press 
Princeton, New Jersey 08540 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Communications 
The first exercise, which you are about to attempt, is planned 
consciously to bring into play your sense of touch and to 
coordinate it with your sense of sight for the purpose of 
drawing. 
Look at the edge of your chair. Then rub your finger against 
it many times, sometimes slowly and sometimes quickly. 
Compare the idea of the edge which the touch of your finger 
gives with the idea you had from merely looking at it. In 
this exercise you will try to combine both those experiences 
—that of touching with that of simply looking. 
‘The Natural Way to Draw 
Kimon Nicolaides 
1941; 221 pp. 
$6.00 postpaid 
from: 
Houghton Mifflin Co. 
Wayside Road 
Burlington, Mass, 01803 
or WHOLE 
EARTH 
CATALOG 
of 
peture drawing i ke serib 
Bling rather 
e 
ly — 
think more 
Exercise 1: Contour Drawing 
othe mating of 
te 
way eh ke, 
Materials: 
Use a 3B (medium soft) drawing pencil 
with a very fine point (sharpened on sandpaper) and 
a piece of cream-colored manila wrapping paper about 
fifteen by twenty inches in size. Manila paper usually 
comes in large sheets which may be cut into four pieces 
of that size. You may use, also, the kind sold as 
“shelf paper’ provided it is not glazed. Fasten the paper 
with large paper clips to a piece of prestwood or a stiff 
piece of cardboard. Wear an eyeshade. Do not-use an 
eraser until you come to Exercise 28. 
Sit close to the model or object which you intend to draw and 
lean forward in your-chair. Focus your eyes on some point— 
any point will do—along the contour of the model. (The 
contour approximates what is usually spoken of as the outline 
or edge.) Place the point of your pencil on the paper. Imagine 
that your pencil point is touching the model instead of the 
paper. Without taking your eyes off the model, wait until you 
are convinced that the pencil is touching that point on the 
model upon which your eyes are fastened. 
Then move your eye slowly along the contour of the model and 
move the pencil slowly along the paper. As you do this, keep 
the conviction that the pencil point is actually touching the 
contour. 
Be guided more by the sense of touch than by sight. 
THIS MEANS THAT YOU MUST DRAW WITHOUT LOOK- 
ING AT THE PAPER, continuously looking at the model. 
Exactly coordinate the pencil with the eye. Your eye may 
be tempted at first to move faster than your pencil, but do 
not let it get ahead. Consider only the point that you are 
working on at the moment with no regard for any other 
part of the figure. 
Only in the realm of dreams has the artist found. full freedom 
| think the difference is well summed up in the 
anecdote about Matisse. When a lady visiting his studio said, 
“But surely, the arm of this woman is much too long,” the 
artist replied politely, ‘‘Madame, you are mistaken. This is 
to create. 
not a woman, this is a picture.” 
But no tradition of art had a deeper understanding of what | have 
called the ‘’screen”’ than the art of the Far East. Chinese art 
theory discusses the power of expressing through absence of 
brush and ink. ‘Figures, even though painted without eyes, must 
seem to look; without ears, must seem to listen. ... There are 
things which ten hundred brush-strokes cannot depict but which 
~ 
can be captured by a few simple strokes if they are right. That 
is truly giving expression to the invisible.’ [170] The maxim 
into which these observations were condensed might serve as 
a motto of this chapter: 
‘‘i tao 
pi pu tao—idea present, brush 
may be spared performance,”’ 
ourselves bawing. an illusion, 
bier 
= 
, 
of 
<a oa 
TWO TYPES OF STUDY. The way to ear to draw is b by 
drawing. People who make art must not merely know abou’ 
it. For an artist, the important thing is not how much he Ke 
knows, but how much he can do. A scientist may know all 
about aeronautics without being able to handle an airplan 
It is only by flying that he can develop the senses for flying. 
lf | were asked what one thing more than any other would 
teach a student how to draw, | should answer, “Drawing 
incessantly, furiously, painstakingly drawing.’’ 
Probably you realize already that contour drawing is of the 
— 
type which is to be done ‘‘painstakingly."” On the other 
— 
hand, gesture drawing, which you will begin today, is to be 
done “‘furiously.’’ In order to concentrate, one can act 
furiously over a short space of time or one can work with 
calm determination, quietly, over a long-extended period. 
In learning to draw, both kinds of effort are necessary and 
the one makes a precise balance for the other. In long studies 
— 
you will develop an understanding of the structure of the 
model, how it is made—by which | mean something more 
_ 
fundamental than anatomy alone. In quick studies you will 
consider the function of action, life, or expression—I call 
it gesture. 
rs 
e 
Some students become self-conscious and confused as soon as. 
they attempt to draw a face. Don’t think of the head or the 
© 
face as something different from any other part of the body. 
Draw it as you would draw a hand or an elbow or a knee, 
Don't try to “get a likeness’’ of your model. The tendency 
, 
of the beginner is to separate likenesses from drawing. Draw 
~ 
strangers if you can because you care less what they look 
i 
like. Do not draw members of your family—or at least do 
re 
not show them your drawings—because their one reaction 
will be to look for the likeness. Keep it clearly in mind 
that YOU ARE NOT MAKING A PORTRAIT. You are 
making a study of a head. 
CHANGING THE POINT OF VIEW. 
It is well known that the 
printed or spoken word has a tendency to take on authority 
once it is printed or spoken. To get away from it almost 
takes a revolution. The same thing is true with yourown 
drawing. The very mistakes you make, as they linger on 
the paper, have this tendency to become authoritative. To 
combat it, move about the room during the long pose, 
making occasional scribbled drawings. A thing is factually 
the same from whatever point of view you see it, but seeing 
it from different points of view will illuminate the meaning 
of the forms and lines you have been looking at. 
Whenever you are uncertain as to how to begin a study 
think of the movement. 
202 
STEINBERG: From “The 
Passport” 
Max Friedlander tells the revealing story of the bank officia 
who insisted that German bank notes should retain a portrait 
head in their design. Nothing, he said, was harder for the 
forger to imitate than precisely the right expression of these 
artistically quite insignificant heads, nor was there a quicker 
way of discovering a suspect note than simply observiags the 
7 
way these faces look at you. 
ie 
Rabbit or duck? 
True, we can switch from one reading to another with in 
easing | 
rapidity; we will also ‘‘remember” the rabbit while we see 
the 
duck, but the more closely we watch ourselves, the more cert 
the same time. Illusion, we will find, is hard to de 
for though we may be intellectually aware of ths 
experience must be an illusion, we Canter stri 
