eS 
ioe 
~ 
Say 
hee 
Plans and the ‘Sichavs iS; Behavior 
What | know is that this book and Act of Creation taught 
me most of what | know about using my head. 
The result of a year-long conversation by the authors in 
California in 1958-59, the book discards Stimulus-Response 
psychology (which never helped my head, or probably 
anybody's) and wades into cybernetics instead. 
The book 
is cheerful, if academicky. From it the notion of being 
programmed, and self-programming, emerges as a con- 
venience rather than a threat. 
That Plans (programs) 
operate hierarchically rather than single-file is clearly an 
enormous saving in trouble and trivia. 
The constant checking 
of feedback loops (called TOTE units) yields a nice 
connectedness to the environment. 
The consideration of 
contradictory or interrupted Plans gives insight into the uses 
and misuses of frustration. A handy book, this, of simple 
_ concepts for understanding the subtle realm. 
[Suggested by Preston Cutler] 
Plans and the Structure of Behavior 
George A. Miller, Eugene Galanter, Karl H. Pribram 
1960; 226 pp. 
$8.50 — from: 
.. 
Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc. 
Postpaid 
383 Madison Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10017 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
As you brush your teeth you decide that you will answer that pile of 
letters you have been neglecting. That is enough. You do not need 
to list the names of the people or to draft an out line of the contents 
of the letters. 
You think simply that today there will be time for it 
after lunch. 
After lunch, if you remember, you turn to the letters. 
You take one and read it. You plan your answer. 
You may need to 
check on some information, you dictate or type or scribble a reply, 
you address an envelope, seal the folded letter, find a stamp, drop 
it in a mailbox. 
Each of these subactivities runs off as the situation 
arises—you did not need to enumerate them while you were 
planning the day. All you need is the name of the activity that 
you plan for that segment of the day, and from that name you 
then proceed to elaborate the detailed actions involved in carrying 
out the plan. 
. 
LU 
Meditation in Action 
The Venerable Trungpa Rinpoche was some kind of a high 
abbot over a district of monasteries in Tibet, so you can 
expect a book of his talks to be some kind of esoteric « and 
too profound for us surface-dwellers. 
/f it’s esoteric, he’s cleverly hidden that fact, and surface 
dwellers are being sucked in from all over the map. 
I’ve 
never seen so much good sense in so little space on the 
subject of meditation. As a book, it trends toward the 
very goal: singularity. 
Meditation in Action 
Chogyam Trungpa 
1969; 74 pp. 
$2.25 postpaid 
from: 
Shambala Publications 
di 
2010 Seventh Street 
Berkeley, CA 94710 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
MEDITATION 
IN ACTION 
Chogyam Trungpa 
The point is that whatever one is trying to learn, it is necessary to 
have first hand experience, rather than learning from books or from 
teachers or by merely conforming to an already established pattern. 
That is what he found, and in that sense Buddha was a great revolu- 
tionary in his way of thinking. He even denied the existence of 
Brahma, or God, the Creator of the world. 
He determined to accept 
nothing which he had not first discovered for himself. 
. He developed the creative side of revolution, which is not 
trying to get help from anyone else, but finding out for oneself. 
Buddhism is perhaps the only religion which is not based on the 
revelation of God nor on faith and devotion to God or gods of any 
kind. This does not mean that Buddha was an atheist or a heretic. 
He never argued theological or philosophical doctrines at all. He 
went straight to the heart of the matter, namely, how to see the 
Truth. He never wasted time in vain speculation. 
|f we are meditating at home and we happen to live in the middle 
_ of the High Street, we cannot stop the traffic just because we want 
peace and quiet. But we can stop ourselves, we can accept the 
noise. The noise also contains silence. We must put ourselves into 
it and expect nothing from outside, just as Buddha did. And we 
must accept whatever situation arises. As long as we never retreat 
from the situation, it will always present itself as.a vehicle and we 
will be able to make use of it. As it is said in the Scriptures, ‘’The 
Dharma is good at tne beginning, the Dharma is good in the middle 
and the Dharma is good at the end.”’ 
In other words the Dharma 
never becomes out-of-date, since fundametally the situation is 
always the same. 
Plan. When we speak of a Plan in these pages, however, the 
term will refer to a hierarchy of instructions, and the capitalization 
will indicate that this special interpretation is intended. A Plan is 
any hierarchical process in the organism that can control the 
Order in which a sequence of operations is to be performed. 
A Plan is, for an organism, essentially the same as a program for 
a computer, especially if the program has the sort of hierarchical 
character described above. . 
Execution. We shall say that a creature is executing a particular 
Plan when in fact that Plan is controlling the sequence of operations 
he is carrying out. When an organism executes a Plan he proceeds 
through it step by step, completing one part and then moving to the 
next. The execution of a Plan need not result in overt action— 
especially in man, it seems to be true that there are Plans for 
collecting or transforming information, as well as Plans for guiding 
actions. Although it is not actually necessary, we-assume On intuitive 
grounds that only one Plan is executed at a time, although relatively 
rapid alternation between Plans may be possible. An organism may— 
probably does—store many Plans other than the ones it happens to be 
executing at the moment. 
image. The Image is all the accumulated, organized knowledge that 
the organism has about itself and its world. The Image consists 
of a great deal more than imagery, of course. What we have in mind 
when we use this term is essentially the same kind of private repre- 
sentation that other cognitive theorists have demanded. 
|t includes 
everything the organism has learned—his values as well as his facts— 
organized by whatever concepts, images, or relations he has been 
able to master... 
. 
The central problem of this book is to explore the relation between 
the Image and the Plan. 
e 
a 
If this description of hammering is correct, we should expect the 
sequence of events to run off in this order: Test nail. (Head 
sticks up.) Test hammer. (Hammer is down.) 
Lift hammer. 
Test hammer. (Hammer is up.) Test hammer. {Hammer is up.) 
Strike nail. Test hammer. (Hammer is down.) Test nail. (Head 
sticks up.) Test hammer. And so on, until the test of the nail 
reveals that its head is flush with the surface of the work, at 
which point control-can be transferred elsewhere. Thus the 
compound of TOTE [Test-Operate-Test-Exit] units unravels 
itself simply enough into a coordinated sequence of tests and 
actions, although the underlying structure that organizes and 
coordinates the behavior is itself hierarchical, not sequential. 
So the skilled Bodhisattva will acknowledge and accept all these 
negative things. And this time he really knows that he has all 
‘ 
these terrible things in him, and although it is very difficult and un- 
hygienic, as it were, to work on, that is the only way to start. 
And then he will scatter them on the field of Bodhi. Having 
studied all these concepts and negative things, when the time is 
right he does not keep them any more, but scatters them and 
uses them as manure. So out of these unclean things comes the 
birth of the seed which is Realisation. This is how one-has to 
give birth. 
The whole point is to cultivate the acceptance of everything, so one 
should not discriminate or become involved in any kind of struggle. 
That is the basic meditation technique, and it is quite simple and 
direct. There should be no deliberate effort, no attempt to control 
and no attempt to be peaceful. This is why breathing is used. 
It is 
easy to feel the breathing, and one has no need to be self-conscious 
Or to try and do anything. The breathing is simply available and 
one should just feel that. That is the reason why technique is 
important to start with. This is the primary way of starting, but 
it generally continues and develops in its own way. One sometimes 
' finds oneself doing it slightly differently from when one first 
started, quite spontaneously. This is not classified as an advanced 
technique or a begiriner’s technique. 
It simply grows and develops 
gradually. 
Where there is an external person, a higher Being, or the concept of 
something which is separate from oneself, then we tend to think — 
that because there is something outside there must be something 
here as well. The external phenomenon sometimes becomes such 
an overwhelming thing and seems to have all sorts of seductive 
or aggressive qualities, so we erect akind of defence mechanism 
against it, failing to see that that is itself a continuity of the 
external thing. We try to segregate ourselves from the external, 
and this creates a kind of gigantic bubble in us which consists of 
nothing but air and water or, in this case, fear and the reflection 
of the external thing. So this a bubble prevents any fresh 
air from coming in, and that is 
’’I’’——the Ego. So in that 
sense there is the existence of on but it is in fact illusory. 
Q. For meditation, would a student have to rid himself of Ego before 
he started, or would this come naturally as he is studying? 
A. This comes naturally, because you can’t start without Ego. And 
basically Ego isn’t bad. Good and bad doesn’t really exist anywhere, 
it is only a secondary thing. Ego is, in a sense, a false thing, but it 
isn’t necessarily bad. You have to start with Ego, and use Ego, and 
— 
from there it gradually wears out, like a pair of shoes. But you have 
to use it and wear it out thoroughly, so it is not preserved. Other- 
wise, if you try to push Ego aside and start perfect, you may become 
more and more perfect in a rather one-sided way, but the same 
amount 
of imperfection is building up on the other side, just as 
creating intense light creates intense darkness as well. 
, 
#7 $3.00 postpaid 
—Planning can be thought pf as constructing a list of tee 
perform. When we have a clear Image of a desired outcome, 
can use it to provide the conditions for which we must tes! 
those tests, when arranged in sequence, provide a crude 1 
fy 
for a possible Plan. (Perhaps it would be more helpful to. say th 
the conditions for which we must test are an Image of the { 
outcome.) 
—_ 
We see, therefore, that a person who is caught between conflic 
Plans is in a somewhat different situation from the person caut 
penumbra of confusion surrounding the incompatible Plans; 
the person seems to be deliberately frustrating himself, but ¢ 
discover why. He knows something is wrong, but cannot d 
what it is. The two Plans may be isolated from one another 
in 
such a way that it never occurs to the person to contrast one 
the other. 
unwilling to execute. When the plans that form their raiso nd’ 
are taken away—finished, frustrated, outlawed, outgrown, 
to swim in an ocean of emotion, but then they have becom 
groups with corresponding changes in the plans they execute 
many planless groups disappear and are never heard from a 
In this respect groups are like computers, 90 percent plan 
percent image. Individuals, on the other hand are about 7 
Image and 25 Percent Plan. 
The means-ends analysis runs something like this: First, see if 
you know any way to transform the given into the desired. 
solution. 
If no way is known, then try to reduce the differ 
between them; find some transformation that reduces the ~ 
difference, and then apply it. Then try the first step again—_ 
see if you know any way to transform the new version of 
thi ao 
; 
given into the desired solution. 
If not, search again fora way to 
reduce the difference, etc. Each time the differences redu e 
problem gets a little easier to solve. 
problem is then used as the strategy for solving the origi 
complicated problem. 
F 
connotes self-consciousness or just being aware of what yo 
doing, but in this case awareness is simply seeing the situa 
accurately. 
It does not particularly mean watching yourse! 
speaking and acting, but rather seeing the situation as a whole, 
like an aerial view of a landscape which reveals the layout c 
the town and so on. So patience is related to aisclpling a 
in turn is connected with awareness... 
ay Aas fone 
One should try to develop theoretical knowledge withour beir | 
concerned with the past or the future. At first one’s theories | 
sma 
be inspired by reading books, so we do not altogether dismis S 
learning and studying, which are very important and can pro 
a source of inspiration. But books can also become merely 
means to escape from reality: they can provide an excuse fo 
not really making an effort to examine things in detail for 
or 
The title is accurate. The book offers some comer al 
handles toward a communicable understanding PS 
ee 
mystical and clairvoyant experiences. It has nice 
quotes from the /iterature. 
¥ 
Toward a Coca Theory of the Paranormal | 
Lawrence LeShan 
1969; 112 pp. 
from: 
Parapsychology Foundation, Inc. 
29 West 57th Street 
New York, N. Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
constitute the individual reality (IR) of a specific i 
(“We must remember,” wrote Werner Heisenberg in 
statement, ‘‘that what we see is not Nature, but ee 
to our method of questioning. ay. 
: 
Bertrand Russell has pointed. up four basi 
i 
IR of the mystic. These are: 
1) There *s 
a 
information than through the senses. 2) | 
things. 3) There ts no reality to time. 
PDBPaTABEC 
< 
oe 
