ere trying to i Se 
war. ‘Would you be 
Via in which children may delibera tely 
ig 
but passed on through the generations of 
This study comes from England, which looks 
‘much richer game cycle than American kids 
lly € Xperience. A product of ten years’ research, 
ri ‘of more than a thousand fascinating games. 
Children’s Games in Street 
and Playground 
lona and Peter Opie 
1969; 370 pp. 
$9.50 postpaid 
from: 
Oxford University Press 
16-00 Pollitt Drive 
Fair Lawn, N. J. 07140 
gaat: chickari, chickari, 
One-erie, two-erie, tickerie, seven, 
Allabone, crackabone, ten or eleven; 
Pot, pan, must be done; 
an d Knowledge: Theoretical Foundations 
Hans G. Furth 
ork is so extensive and so unique that no one’s 
f analysis, Personality Theory, etc... 
.and Piaget. 
This 
an introduction to his thought and a good one. He’s 
nd while he covers many aspects of growing. Wp, it’s 
velopment of the mind that really intrigues him and 
ends to see other areas of growth in the light of what 
arned about mental processes. And that’s an 
libly rich bunch of data around which he has erected 
nidably tight theory. 
This book has the advantage of 
ling 
many of the original observations that led Piaget 
onclusions, and it presents readings both from 
‘ ald and recent work. 
hology of the Child Piaget & Inhelder ; 
aget’s own summary of his life’s work, and itis a 
concise little volume, but somewhat lacking in the 
-and color of his earlier, less organized writings. 
an intellect of some proportion, he presents the 
sul 
It, the conclusions he has reached, and does so in 
tyle. Hopefully one might be intrigued enough by 
Ss 
Ef read some of his earlier stuffand find out how 
ere. He’s so good, nobody argues with him——there 
e gepout whether he’s right, only about whether or 
Gag 
x Mtivledon 
y of the Child. 
arbel Inhelder 
a 
- Hans G. Furth 
- 
1969; 270 pp. 
ees 
. $5.95 postpaid 
Piaget and Knowledge: 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
lao 
Tweedle-come, tweedle-come, twenty-one. 
tup a good name for it yet. There’s Behavior Theory, 
Theoretical Foundations 
' et, uritptligenc' in its total (thes eign 
This fast-moving game ve all the qualifications for being considered 
the national game of British schoolboys: 
it is indigenous, it is sport- 
ing, it has fully evolved rules, it is immensely popular (almost every 
boy in England, Scotland, and Wales plays it), and no native of 
Britain appears to have troubled to record it. 
“Kingy”’ is a ball game in which those who are not He have the ball 
hurled at theny, without means of retaliation, and against ever- 
increasing odds, an element that obviously appeals to the national 
character. Anyone who is hit by the ball straightway joins the He in 
trying to hit the rest of the players. Those who are throwing may 
not run with the ball in their hands, but pursue their quarry by 
passing the ball to each other. Those being thrown at may run and 
dodge as they like, and may also punch the ball away from them 
with their fists. For this purpose players sometimes wrap a hand- 
kerchief round their hand, as ‘‘fisting’’ the ball can be painful. The 
game continues until all but one have been hit and are ‘out,’ and 
this player is declared ‘‘King.'’ When the contestants are skilled 
(and boys of fifteen and sixteen readily play the game), the ball 
gets thrown with considerable force; it shoots back and forth across 
the street or playground, and the game can be as exciting to watch 
as a tennis match. 
As befits a sport in which so much energy is expended, the prelim- 
inaries are sometimes wonderfully ritualistic. At Bishop Auckland, 
for instance, one person shouts ‘King’ to start the proceedings, and 
two others follow up by crying “‘Sidey.”” The players then forma 
circle round the King, with the two who shouted ‘’Sidey”’ standing 
on either side of him like heirs-apparent. The players making the 
circle stand with legs apart, each foot touching the foot of their 
neighbour on either side. The King picks up the ball and bounces 
it——or, as they say in Bishop Auckland, ‘’stounces’’ it——three 
times in the ring, and then lets it roll. Everyone watches to see 
whose legs it will go through. 
If it does not roll through anybody's 
legs the King picks it up and bounces it again, and if his second 
turn fails he has a third try. 
If the ball still has not passed between 
anyone's legs, he hands it to the first sidey (the ‘“foggy-sidey’’) 
who, as necessary, repeats the performance——for the moment 
the ball does pass between someone’s legs that person is ‘‘on,”’ 
and everyone runs. At the end of the game whoever becomes 
King takes the place in the centre of the ring to start the next 
game, and the first two people to shout ‘‘Sidey” stand beside 
Hin. 
aos 
The Rules. A\though the ways of choosing the chaser are numerous, 
the game itself is played with little variation. Reports from more 
than fifty places have been so similar, it is as if a mimeographed 
sheet of rules was carried in every grubby trouser pocket. Such a 
set of rules would read as follows: 
1. The number of players shall be not less than six or more than 
twenty: the best number is about twelve. 
STIMULUS 
EVENT 
SYMBOL 
REACTION 
Sign relations: 
The difference between signals and symbols. 
E 
) 
It has long impressed me that Piaget deals with biological intelligence 
and not with the intelligence referred to in the studies of individual 
differences or learning theories to which most of us are accustomed. 
!.am unable to see how one can feel at home with his model of 
intelligence unless one sees intelligence as a prolongation of organic 
_ development. Without a biological basis, Piaget's formal logical 
model becomes what to many it unfortunately appears: 
a cold, 
artificial system of ratiocination that has no relevance to full- 
blooded real life. 
In like manner, a notion like equilibration must_ 
remain incomprehensible if one’s gaze extends no further than 
the external factors that influence the growth of intelligence. And 
if equilibration is an internal factor, as Piaget stresses, it surely 
does not start with the birth of the human baby. 
For Piaget, the operative process by which we construct reality-as- 
known and the symbolic process by which we re-present known 
reality are functionally different and possess a different reality 
status. A corresponding distinction is proposed for Piaget's term 
intérioriser: 
while symbols derive from a real internalization of 
accommodated external actions, the functional interiorization 
of operations réfers to the increasing dissociation between general 
form and particular content, not to something that was first 
overt and then becomes covert. 
|n contrast to current represen- 
tational theories of knowledge, Piaget's model is unique in 
' incorporating the two competing and often confused meanings 
ia 
~ attached to the word 
. 
“representation.” 
e 
Since, for Piaget, perception without operative knowledge ts in- 
conceivable, it follows that perception is simply one eiagnar epee 
de The boundries of the bene shall be sei on before the game — 
begins. A flat area of 20 x 20 yards, or a length of street of about 
20—30 yards, depending on the number of players, is ample. 
3. One person shall be chosen chaser, and the game shall start 
immediately he is chosen. The chaser shall, however, bounce the 
© 
ball ten times before he throws it at anyone, to give the players 
time to scatter. 
4. The chaser may not run with the ball; but while he is the sole 
chaser he may bounce the ball on the ground as he runs. 
5. A player shall be ‘‘out” when the ball hits him on the body 
between his neck and knees (or, as may be agreed, between his 
waist and ankles). 
It shall be determined beforehand whether a 
hit shall count if the ball has first bounced on the ground or 
ricocheted off a wall; or whether only a direct hit shall count. 
6. As soon as a player is ‘‘out’’ he shall assist the chaser in getting 
| the other players out. 
7. When there are two or more chasers they may not run with 
the ball, but may manoeuver as they wish by passing it to each 
other. 
8. Players being chased may take what action they like to 
e 
avoid being hit by the ball, including ‘‘fisting”’ it, i.e. punching 
it away with their fist. They may also pick up the ball between 
their fists and chuck it away. 
9. Should a chaser catch the ball when it has been “‘fisted”’, or 
touch a player while he is holding the ball in his fists, the player 
shall be ‘out.’ 
10. Should a player kick the ball, or handle it other than with his 
fists, he shall be ‘‘out.”’ 
11. Should a player run out of bounds when trying to avoid being 
hit by the ball he shall be ‘‘out.” 
12. The last player left in shall be ’’King,’’ and shall officiate at 
the selection of the next chaser. 
Some times | kill Some One and Some One kills me but my*men 
release me and | release them Back. 
e 
Split the kipper 
In this contest, which, as one boy admitted, ‘‘takes quite a lot of 
nerve, the two adversaries stand facing each other a yard or so 
apart, with their feet together. The first boy throws a knife, 
preferably a sheath knife, so that-it sticks in the ground not more 
than twelve inches to the left or right of one of his opponent's 
feet. The other boy, without moving his feet, plucks the knife out 
of the ground, and moves his nearest foot to the place where 
- 
the knife went in. In this position he makes a return throw (most 
boys specify that the knife must be thrown by the blade), and 
the first boy, likewise, moves his foot to where the knife stuck in. 
However, should the point of the knife not stick into the ground, 
or should it stick in more than twelve inches away from the person’s 
foot (if more than a span,” says a Durham lad; “‘if over two 
knife lengths,” says a Fife boy), the player does not have to move 
his foot, and the throw is lost. The object of the game is to force 
the opponent to stretch his legs so far apart that he cannot move 
them further, and gives in, or falls over while attempting the 
stretch. 
In this form “it is a short game and suitable for short 
breaks at school.’ 
But in many places, particularly in the north, 
a player is allowed to ‘‘split’’ his opponent. 
|f a person’s legs 
are uncomfortably wide apart, and his opponent's likewise, or 
at least moderately open, he may attempt to throw the knife 
so that it sticks between his opponent's legs, and if he succeeds 
in this, may close his own. 
Usually “splitting” is allowed only 
once, twice, or three times, otherwise the game can “‘go on for 
ages’’. Alternatively in Scotland, including the Isles, if the knife 
sticks between the opponent's legs, that person has to turn round, 
and thereafter throw less surely, and undoubtedly more dangerously, 
with his back to the other player. 
This game, or ordeal, which is sometimes played with a dart, iron 
spike, or geometry dividers, has become popular only during the 
past decade. 
The young subjects behave as if they were expecting to see everything, 
even with aberrant centerings, whereas the adults look more actively, 
directing their exploration by means of a strategy whereby the 
shifts of fixation obtain a maximum of information with a minimum 
of loss. 
Symbolic play is the apogee of children’s play. Even more than the 
two or three other forms of play which we shall discuss, it cor- 
responds to the essential function that play fulfills in the life of 
the child. Obliged to adapt himself constantly to a social world 
of elders whose interests and rules remain external to him, and to 
a physical world which he understands only slightly, the child does 
not succeed as we adults do in satisfying the affective and even 
intellectual needs of his personality through these adaptations. 
It 
is indispensable to his affective and intellectual equilibrium, there- 
fore, that he have available to him an area of activity whose motivation 
is not adaptation to reality but, on the contrary, assimilation of 
reality to the self, without coercions or sanctions. Such an area is play, 
which transforms reality by assimilation to the needs of the self, 
whereas imitation (when it constitutes an end in itself) is accom- 
modation to external models. 
Intelligence constitutes an equilibration 
between assimilation and accommodation. 
A little girl who while on vacation had asked various questions about 
the mechanics of the bells observed on an old village church steeple, 
now stood stiff as a ramrod beside her father’s desk, making a 
deafening noise. ‘You're bothering me, you know. Can't you see 
4'm working?” ‘‘Don‘t talk to me,” replied the little girl. “I’ma 
church.”” 
A first general observation is that the child's whys bear witness to an 
intermediate precausaiity between the efficient cause and the final 
cause. Specifically, these questions seek reasons for phenomena 
which we see as fortuitous but which in the child arouse a need for 
a finalist explanation. ‘Why are there two Mount Saleves, a big one 
and a little one?” asked a six-year-old boy. Towhich.almost all his 
contemporaries, when asked the same question, rooted “One for 
big trips and another for small trips.” 
The Psychology of the Child 
