Audel Guides 
I’ve just read a dozen or so Aude/ Guides, and these are 
some | felt were particularly useful. Some of the Aude/ 
books are quite obsolete, but much to my surprise, many 
have been written within the /ast ten years. Several have 
poor indexes, and some completely lack an index. The 
books are usually written by experts in the areas or 
_ trades described. 
The information in general seems to be 
very good. 
/f you are working with more or less typical American 
water and sewage systems, either maintaining or building, 
Domestic Water Supply and Sewage Disposal Guide shou/d 
be a rather useful book. 
Wells, springs, tanks, pumps 
(including hydraulic rams!), treatment, septic tanks, water 
heaters, it’s all here, including many 
useful tables. 
The book is weak on the sewage end and has incomplete 
information on things such as hand dug, jetted and driven 
wells. Get the WHO book for that. 
Vol, | of Masons and Builders Guide dea/s with clays, 
brick making, mortar, tools, brick laying, bonding, 
corners and rectangular openings. 
Vol. |] covers arches 
and anchors, foundations, chimneys, fireplaces, repairs, 
estimation, and tile work. 
These seem very good if you want to get into traditional 
brick work. The chapters on fireplaces and chimneys 
seem particularly useful to me. 
| never could get behind 
brick work for new construction, though. 
Carpentry and Building fascinated me. Written in question 
and answer style, it covers many problems encountered in 
construction and remodeling work. Seems that these are 
questions that the author has received while acting as an 
engineering consultant for a trades magazine. Excellent 
sections on insulation and vapor barriers, acoustics, noise 
transmission and sound resistant partitions, and a beautiful 
miscellaneous section dealing with things like the pressures 
in grain bins. Good index. 
Building Maintenance /s intended for maintenance men in 
office etc. buildings. Looks like it would be very good for 
them, less useful for the home handyman. Information is 
included on painting, plumbing, concrete, carpentry, roof- 
ing, glazing, sheet metal, heating and air conditioning. 
Gives good, brief, and simple directions and assumes 
that the reader has at least some sense and native intelligence. 
No special knowledge is required to use the two-volume set, 
Do-It-Yourself Eneyclopedia. /f you can get around the 
projects (!!) in questionable style (style?), there is a lot of 
good stuff relating to home improvement and home main- 
tenance. A little hard to find your way around in until 
the second time through, it is actually fairly well organized. 
Far-out 1950’s pictures. 
[Reviewed by Fred Richardson] 
National Electrical Code 1968 
2 
* Guide to the 1968 National Electrical Code 
Fe 
* Electrical Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings 
The Code is not law, except as adopted by local ordinances, 
= 
but its requirements should certainly be met as a minimum 
=e 
in all wiring. Check with your local building department for 
#8 
their code or revisions, and permit information if you want 
FH 
your wiring to be legal. In any case, use the Codeasa 
. 
=: 
minimum. 
rH 
The regulations set up seem to me to be quite reasonable and 
= 
based mostly on safety. 
It is somewhat hard to use as a 
ss 
reference because it has a poorly organized index. The index 
#3 
is very complete if you can get into its system. 
= 
Following the Code strictly will produce a safe installation. 
= 
Producing one that is convenient, efficient, practical, and 
ss 
allows plenty of room for expansion requires planningand 
study of wiring books such as Sears and Wards electric 
a 
wiring books (50¢), or Wiring Simplified (see page 23). 
The Aude/ Guide to the 1968 National Electrical Code /s 
a non-official interpretation and clarification of the NEC. 
/t is not intended to replace the NEC, but in most cases 
it would be usable by 
itself. 
/ts greatest handicap is that 
it has no index. 
For people working only in residences, the new Electrical 
Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings /s much easier 
to use than the NEC, from which it is excerpted. 
[Suggested and reviewed by Fred Richardson] 
National Electrical Code 1968 
1968; 466 pp. 
$2.00 postpaid 
Electrical Code for One- and 
Two-Family Dwellings 
ey 
3 
Guide to the 1968 National 
1969; 133 pp. 
‘ 
Electrical Code 
$1.75 postpaid 
Robert E. Palmquist 
1968; 461 pp. 
both from: 
$6.95 postpaid (cheaper from 
Silvo or U. S. General) 
National Fire Protection Association 
60 Batterymarch Street 
Boston, Mass. 02110 
from: 
Bobbs-Merrill Company 
4300 West 62nd Street 
Indianapolis, Indiana 46206 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
24 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
ee es 
¥ 
‘= 
Domestic Water Supply and 
Sewage Disposal Guide 
Edwin P. Anderson 
1960; 440 pp. 
$4.50 postpaid 
Masons and Builders Guide, 
Vols. I & Il 
Frank D. Graham 
1924; approx. 300 pp. each 
$4.00 each, postpaid f 
Carpentry and Building 
Harry F. Ulrey 
1966; 434 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
Building Maintenance 
Jules Oravetz, Sr. 
1966; 437 pp. 
$5.50 postpaid + 
Do-It-Y ourself Encyclopedia 
(2 vols.) 
1968; 1012 pp. 
$9.00 /set, postpaid f 
from: 
Theodore Audel & Co. 
A Division of Bobbs-Merrill 
4300 West 62nd Street 
{ndianapolis, Indiana 46206 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
/ater Dowsing.—A\though numerous persons consider ve folded 
Bf 
ae method of locating underground water as a mere ‘‘fanciful 
illusion” the fact still remains that extractable water has been 
found by this simple method throughout the ages. 
Water dowsing consists essentially of the carrying of a forked twig — pe 
of peach, apple, or maple over the area where the search for water 
is to be made. The process is performed essentially as follows: 
a 
Grasp the ends of the twig (one in each hand) with palms upward. an 
When commencing to walk, the butt of the stick should be pointed 
upward. As moving water is approached, the butt end of the stick 
__ 
begins to dip downward until the moving water 
is intercepted at 
a 
which location the butt end points straight down. At this 
_ 
particular time the forked twig has turned through an arc of 
180 degrees. The stick will in some instances break under the 
grip as the butt dips downward. Pliable twigs will bend down 
despite the effort to hold them straight. 
sf 
Most dowsers believe this unique ability or powercomestoa 
— 
person with birth. They also believe that this occult faculty can 
be developed and its use expanded by constant study and practice. 
It is, of course, a fact that many people have this ability without 
knowing it, never having had the reason for the experiment. Some 
students of the matter believe about one person in a thousand 
» has some dowsing ability, although perhaps only abouttenper 
cent of these latter have the ability to become good dowsers. 
|t cannot be too strongly emphasized that no scientific explanation bi — 
exists for the location of extractable underground water by means 
— 
of dowsing. The proof exists however, in thousands of usable wells 
which actually have been discovered by thisuncanny method. 
—_— 
Domestic Water Supply 
A well designed and properly installed damper is regarded as 
essential, Particularly in cold climates. When no damper is 
used the throat Opening J, should be 4 inches for fireplaces not 
a 
exceeding 4 feet in height. 
=a 
Placing the throat well forward has another advantage, namely 
that of forming a smoke shelf at the damper level. This shelf 
aids in stopping the down drafts which will almost invariably 
occur if the back of the fireplace be made to rise vertically in 
, the same plane as the back of the flue. 
Audel’s Books are cheaper from 
U.S. General (see p. 55) or Silvo 
(see p. 54). 
ELEVATION 
The opening above the smoke shelf should be ‘’gathered” or 
contracted to the size of the flue by corbelling, this being done 
~ 
with the least height practicable. Up to the level of the clay 
flue lining, the brickwork should not be less than 8 inches 
thick, because the space immediately above the damper is 
Expert foresters ... advise that, although the hickory is a sturdy 
and persistent grower, a tree which has grown and matured under 
forest conditions cannot tolerate a disturbance of its root system; 
also, there may be danger of injuring the tree described if the roots 
are cut closer than approximately 25 feet along one side. Normally, 
from a circle immediately outside the crown, the main feeder roots 
the hottest place of the chimney. 
In small fireplaces, a depth of 12 inches will permit good draft 
if the throat be properly constructed, but a minimum depth of 
16 to 18 inches is advised to lessen the danger of brands falling 
extend outward and downward at an angle of approximately 45 
degrees, and sometimes these roots go very deep. In addition, a 
system of very shallow roots, approximately 12 to 24 inches 
beneath the surface of the ground, extends outward in all direc- 
tions. These roots also carry water to the trunk of the tree, and 
serve to anchor the tree upright in the soil. These are the roots 
that will be injured by digging for the foundations of the house. 
Actually, there is no way to accurately foretell the reaction of 
the trees. Stay away from the trees as far as possible. The dis- 
turbed trees should be supplied with plenty of water and heavy 
feedings of fertilizer for some time to enable them to regain the 
loss of strength occasioned by disturbing the roots in the affected 
areas of the root system. 
Carpentry and Building 
* 
Saga Technical Associates 
Some very detailed manuals on ferrocement are available 
from Saga Technical Associates, yacht designers and 
engineers in Toronto. They also have slides, photo essays, 
and several new publications under way. 
Information from: 
Saga Technical Associates 
P. O. Box 733 
Terminal Q 
Toronto, Ontario, CANADA 
Good basic ferro 
cement information 
in a speical reprint, 
$1.00 , from: 
National Fisherman 
22 Main Street 
Camden, Maine 04843 
36' ferro-concrete ketch hull basket with interior mesh, suspended 
hull method. By Saga Technical Associates. 
out on the floor. 
In construction of a fireplace the following essentials should be — 
; 
attained. They are: 
nighes 
1. That the flue have the proper area. 
x Se 
2. That the throat be correctly designed and have a suitable damper. 
3. That the chimney be high enough for good draft. 
- 
4 
amount of radiated heat into the room. 
5. That a properly constructed smoke chamber be provided. 
Masons & Builders Guide 
Concrete Boatbuilding, Its Techniques and its Future 
Ferro cement is a super-strong %” thick fireproof material 
used for boat hulls, consisting of a mixture of sand & cement 
plastered over a wire framework. 
/t is cheaper & easier than 
— 
conventional boat- ~building techniques and very few special — 
tools are needed. 
This is a textbook on building a ferro 
cement boat where the authors share details of their consid- 
erable experience. 
There is a fine concise section on how 
; 
to build, and chapters on reinforcing, mortar mixing, and 
a 
finish work. 
Pape 
Ferro cement should work well on land... let us know if — 
you hear of any F. C. domes. 
. 
Concrete Boatbuilding 
Its Technique and Its F uture 
Gainor W. Jackson 
W. Morley Sutherland 
$7.95 
postpaid 
———-s 
from: 
John de Graff, Inc. 
34 Oak Street 
Tuckahoe, N. Y. 10707 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
* 
Building a Log House 
A 25¢ pamphlet from Alaska that tells you how to bui 
shelters (& furniture) of logs. /t’s obviously written oe 
people that have built log cabins. 
Building a Lo thers 
1914, . 
196843 pp. 
$.25 pie 
ae 
fromins 
ee 
; 
#k 
Cooperative Extension Service 
University os SS one 
av 
Box 1109 
Junesu, Alaska 99801 
as 
