er 
ing available. Oriented around Pacific Northwest 
oun 
neering, where trails often end miles before the 
x s begin, it is particularly relevant to wilderness 
n ping and travel. /t is much more than a book on how 
imb. Reflects several generations of respectful 
é tionship with mountains. 
If you move (or sit) where 
here ‘ahd trees, rocks, snow, and brush, it speaks to your 
_ 
ciers are the local functional equivalent of deserts. 
r 
4 
[Reviewed by Michael Templeton. 
Suggested by everybody.] 
Th e Freedom of the Hills 
ed. Harvey Manning 
1960, 1967; 485 pp. 
$7.50 postpaid 
e Mountaineers 
. O. Box 122 
Seatlle, Wash. 98111 
or WHOLE EARTH 
‘ents, and with age they develop leaks that let the sleeper down in 
iddle of the night. Convection can be reduced by inserting a 
unces of down; in this case a filter is needed on the inlet and the 
| 
ent years many a mountaineer has developed the habit or 
hobby of not only making his own passage invisible but of 
spending extra effort to obliterate evidence of his predecessors— 
of whom were just ignorant and thoughtless. 
an 
held stationary Re 
a high massif, this bulge perhaps being 
ked by flanking air—--little squalls breaking off and wandering 
out apparently at random. A party on one peak may experience 
jhtning, hail; driving snow, pouring rain, and calm sunshine all 
hin the space of an hour. On a nearby peak another party may 
Sierra Club outings. Covers a wider range (women, burros, 
...) than Colin Fletcher. 
ite 
Sierra Club Wilderness Handbook 
id 
Brower, ed. 
51, 1968; 317 pp. 
Fifth Avenue 
/York, N. Y. 10003 
y ou want the wilderness to yourself, go where it’s 
when it’s cold. 
This book is a fine compendium 
ral of Ski Mountaineering 
id Saas ed. 
COOKING AND EATING UTENSILS 
The least-expensive cooking utensils are tin cans in various sizes, 
junked (at home, not in the mountains) when rusty. Aluminum 
utensils cost a little more but are more durable. 
Bails are desirable 
for suspending pots over the fire, and lids to keep ashes out and 
steam in. Aluminum foil is versatile beyond description, under 
adept manipulation becoming a frying pan, oven for baking foods 
in a bed of coals, reflector oven for biscuits, and if need be even 
a cup or a pot. 
With a poly bottle, or a canteen of anodized aluminum, a climber 
can enjoy fruit juices untained by the toxic metal salts generated 
in containers of steel or untreated aluminum. 
BREAKFAST 
lf the climb begins in the middle of the night, breakfast is merely the 
first installment of lunch. A tiny can of fruit cocktail, or 
a doughnut 
and a swallow of milk, are typical menus. Some climbers are convinced 
their legs won’t work without hot food; their neurosis can be quickly 
pampered with instant cereal or cocoa cooked by chemical fire. 
LUNCH 
As soon as breakfast is completed the climber commences lunch, 
which he continues to eat as long as he is awake, stopping briefly 
for supper. He has food in his rucksack and knick-knacks in his 
pockets, main courses for the summit lunch, nibbles for rest-stops, 
and sweets to suck while walking. 
Fortunately the sources of streams in our wilderness areas are 
usually uncontaminated, and one need not sterilize the drinking 
and cooking water. However, if one is traveling in a semipopulated 
area or in a foreign country, it is safer to take the precaution of 
using Halazone tablets in the drinking water and of boiling the 
cooking water. One Halazone tablet is dissolved in one quart of 
water and allowed to stand thirty minutes. The iodine tablet 
“Bursoline’’ is considered superior to Halazone; one in one quart 
of water renders it potable in fifteen minutes. 
Under the heading of ‘‘strictly feminine and personal’ comes some 
advice regarding your menstrual period: Whatever your individual 
peculiarities may be ordinarily, they may be quite different on a 
mountain hiking trip. You may be thrown off schedule and you 
may need lots more or lots fewer sanitary napkins than usual, 
Tampons worn internally may be more comfortable for hiking and 
will prevent the chafing that may be your lot with externally worn 
napkins (but for your first trip by all means have a supply of the 
kind you are used to). And don’t forget, there are no rest rooms 
__with vending machines where you are going. 
It is best to allow the snow to melt in the mouth before swallowing 
A fruit drop or piece of fruit candy adds both flavor and sugar and 
dissolving it in the mouth with snow while traveling is a popular 
habit among experienced ski tourers. 
Two-step.—One of the most useful maneuvers for attainment of speed 
on the level or on slight downhill gradients is the two-step, which 
uses the gliding ability of skis. 
If the two-step is to be used for long, 
it must be deliberate and rhythmic, slow enough to let the skier relax 
during the glide between thrusts. 
Take a short step for propulsion, lean well forward from the waist, 
placing the poles well ahead, and lunge into a glide on the opposite 
ski by shifting the propelling thrust smoothly from the driving ski 
to a strong followthrough with the poles. Slowly bring the driving 
ski alongside the gliding ski in preparation for the next short step. 
Belayer (when ready with belay): 
Climber: “Climbing.” 
Climber (when rope is too loose): 
Climber (when safe): “Off belay.” 
Belayer (responding): ‘Belay off.”” 
Both (when needed): ‘‘ROCK!"’ 
Climber (if it happens): “FALLING!” 
“Belay on.” 
“Up rope.” 
(when more rope is needed): 
“’Slack.’’ 
(for a taut rope to hold his weight): “Tension.” 
Body Position and location for relative safety from 
electrical ground currents. 
(Arrows indicate probable 
paths of flow.) 
The quest of the mountaineer, in simplest terms, is for the freedom 
of the hills, to be fully at home in the high wilderness with no 
barriers he cannot pass, no dangers he cannot avoid. 
In addition to standard equipment, it will be wise with preschool- 
age children to take along some portion of the home environment 
whose value is purely emotional, even at the expense of inconvenience 
and irreparable damage to the articles; these might be, for example, 
teddy bears, toys, books, familiar clothes, or eating utensils. 
Good pack horses and mules can carry a pay load of 200 pounds 
when expertly packed. One hundred and seventy-five pounds 
should be considered a maximum load on one’s first trip. The 
pack train can be counted on for 15 miles.a day on good trails if 
it keeps pushing. These animals walk at a good clip and, unless 
their handlers are fast hikers, all personnel should be mounted. 
This becomes more important as the size of the party increases. 
Mules are led singly by pedestrians or are tied in groups of not 
more than five animals and are then led by aman on horseback. 
This is the ‘string’ of the professional packer. 
Occasionally two consecutive short steps are taken to change the 
glide from one ski to another. (this constitutes the three-step), and 
to tire out a new set of muscles. 
Lightning and the mountain.—The urge to know more concerning 
the effects of lightning becomes stronger when one is on a peak 
with. the static charge beginning to make its power felt. When 
every projection in the vicinity, and finally the climber himself, 
begins to spark and the air is filled with ominous hissing, the 
desire to be in camp becomes overwhelming. Since this desire 
cannot always be satisfied, it is well 
to know what to do at this 
time. 
The reasons behind the classical warning to be off the summit 
and ridges in a lightning storm can be seen when the mechanics 
of the lightning discharge are studied. 
103 
