leone 
e asked the other day how a depression would affect sales of 
“ALOG. | said it would probably improve sales. As near as | 
t | 
, We are participating in a sub-economy that, among other 
5 ‘is not having an inflation. The effects of this sub-economy 
yok paper does. Starting the CATALOG cost about $5,000 in risk 
ey. By the time that was spent we knew we were going to be all 
1t 
and went $25,000 in the hole with no sleepless nights (a large 
of that figure was stock for the store). 
r 
growth went like this: 
Fall 68 CATALOG, 2,000 copies; Spring 69, 
000 copies; Fall 69, 160,000 copies (30,000 still unsold). The 
Catalogs (Supplements) gradually worked up to printings of 35,000. 
Financially we’re in the black; all debts are paid. In January 69 
we were doing around $2,000 of business a month. The income-outgo 
figures for the last 4 months are, roughly: 
January 70 
in, 
$63,000 } March 
in, 
$37,000 
: 
out, $39,000 
out, $38,000 
February 
in, 
$69,000 
April 
in, . $60,000 
out, $62,000 
out, $55,000 
10% of our gross income goes to Portola Institute. What's left over 
either goes into improving the CATALOG operation or will be used 
to start our next educational venture when the CATALOG self- 
destructs in ‘71. 
The costs on this CATALOG production were: 
A ecome more consequential even. than the subculture has been. 
Printing 
$21,000 
rius and its independent life-support system saving the crew when 
Salaries 
4,300 
e command module malfunctions. 
Mailing 
_ 
1,400 
Film & supplies 
500 
'S 
conjecture. What we can affirm is that the present economics of 
Composer 
300 
hing favors publishing your own stuff and working with a distributor 
Reviews 
300 
is Book People. An IBM Selectric Composer leases for $150 a 
Repairs 
200 
. A Polaroid MP—3 to do your half-tones costs about $850——and 
Rent 
100 
ust an in-house convenience. Printing on newsprint costs half what 
$28,100 
The figure does not include six months of research. We’re printing 
60,000 copies initially, which puts our unit cost at about 47¢. 
One advantage we discovered in publishing our costs like this (it was 
Steve Baer’s suggestion) is that it encourages lower bids from other 
printers. Production and printing last Fall cost $33,000 for 60,000 
copies. This Spring it’s $28,100. 
Mount Catalog 
October we had 4,000 subscribers; this May we have 13,000. 
Honesty is the best policy. 
fhe Quick Hard Summary. 
ee September 69 Supplement, Stewart boldly invited 
oe who was thinking of opening a Whole Earth Store 
| nerous more or less quick & more or less hard summaries. 
e 
‘sa sort of composite of all that information. We've 
w of, & they've been very helpful: 
Earth Access Co. 
66 Shattuck 
keley, CA 94704 
848-0510 
. Whole Earth Cooperative 
845 East Joiinson 
Madison, Wisc 53703 
(608) 256-8828 
rs t, get lots of money to start with. Ideally, enough to run on for 
zast Six months, preferably loviger, & assuming whatever you make 
hiss, are, Avery rough minimum estimate is $10,000; it 
ds a lot on how much space you want to ee & what you 
> 
Bi 
phone, erce garbage, some deposits required; insurance; 
ment & supplies (possibly cash register, adding machine, 
iters), forms, paper, notebooks, files; use permit from your 
not much ($§10—$50); furniture & redecorating: desks, 
, chairs, shelving, display areas, signs, etc. (A lot can be done 
sed stuff). If you don’t have them you'll need tools—~hammers, 
etc. And paint. Salaries——possibly the largest single item, 
1) Useful as a tool, 
2) Relevant to independent education, 
3) High quality or low cost, 
4) Easily available by mail. 
Date 
| SUGGEST: 
Title 
of book or name 
of item: 
re ys 5 
\ 
~ 
people work for free, which tends to breed poverty & discontent. 
ZIP 
New books in Spring 70 CATALOG. 
Scrooge McDuck 
Now——assuming you have some bread, or think you can get some—— 
find a place. Not too high-rent, but hopefully somewhere where 
people walk by alot. Don’t sign a lease until you have a friendly 
lawyer check it-—most agencies use standard forms that are designed 
to screw the tenant, but you can change clauses you don’t like if 
they want to rent the building. Next: apply to your town or city 
for ause permit, which often takes a while to get. Without one 
you can be shut down forthwith. Apply to your state for a resale 
permit, same reason. Invite your local building inspector & fire 
inspector to come inspect——before signing a lease, tf possible. 
Because——if you're in an old building, you may be required by 
law to make changes in wiring, plumbing, fix leaks, etc. at your 
own expense. Again this is preventative——later harassment can 
come from these areas, 
& you have no recourse. Again, a good 
friendly lawyer can be a lot of help in knowing local ordinances, 
etc. “Also, lots of towns are zoned so that you can only do bust- 
ness in certain areas. Find out about zoning before renting. 
Hopefully when you start getting your building into shape & see 
how much space you have, you can start ordering stock. A good 
idea is to figure out how much it’s going to cost you to keep the 
physical place & the people going for six months. Then see how 
much money you have left & order your stock accordingly. 
You'll 
probably have already opened a checking account. If you’re 
going to stock books, join the American Booksellers Association 
——$25 gets you a manual of publishers with info on almost all 
publishers——their discounts, access info, credit terms, policies, 
etc., free advice; & so forth. 
You can also file a statement of your 
credit with their affiliated group——the American Book Publishers 
Council; whenever you open anew account with a publisher you 
just tell him your credit was established there, he looks you up, 
& things are speeded up considerably. . Usually publishers & suppliers 
require payment in advance on your first, or first several orders—— 
after a while you can order, be sent an invoice, & have 30 days to 
pay. The more you order at once, the better discount you get——it’s 
a question of working up to where you’re selling enough that you 
“tay! 
2 
Pre 
rrrrrririririiirirriiririiiritiitiiiititiiiriiiitiiiii iis 
can afford to order in larger quantities. It takes an average of a 
month for orders to arrive. By the way, when opening accounts, 
please make it clear that you’re not connected with us—-—we've had 
trouble already with publishers putting other people’s accounts on 
our statements, because of similarity of names. 
What to sell? Depends alot on you. 
We do mostly books & that’s 
what we know most about——also some merchandise (Ashley 
Stoves, Corona corn mill, Aladdin lamps, Snugli baby carriers, etc.) 
& a few magazines. A lot of the people who've written to us are 
interested in health food; arts & crafts, & other trips. Selling food 
requires special permits; that’s about all we know. 
You can often 
get local arts & crafts on consignment (you pay the artist when the 
item is sold), which can save you some basic stock expense. A rule 
of thumb in ordering books is that cheap paperbacks sell the most—— 
you can be surer of 
selling more of them than of the more expensive 
hardbacks. The Catalog itself is our bestseller, could probably be 
yours too. 
OK. If you get this far——plan a gala opening for publicity——invite 
Everyone & serve cheap (homade!) goodies. 
Word of mouth is best 
advertising we’ve found. But you can put up posters, flyers, what- 
ever. 
Try to get your local newspaper to do a feature on you. Smile 
alot, 
We’d like to see a Whole Earth Store in every town. 
Yea!! But 
before you start, be sure you're ready to do business——you will 
have to hassle with publishers & suppliers, keep records, mess with 
forms, numbers, paperwork. 
You will need alot of human energy 
——someone has to do: ordering stuff, keeping track of what comes 
in, selling stuff, bookkeeping, cleaning up around the joint, correspon- 
dence, typing, filing, building or buying equipment, furniture, painting, 
keeping track of what-you have & what you need (inventory), busi- 
ness with landlord & miscellaneous officials, decision-making, paying 
bills & payroll, etc., etc. Our aim here is not to discourage anyone, 
but to encourage open-eyedness about the prospects. 
Diana Shugart 
If an item suggested is intended to replace 
an item already in the CATALOG, please 
fill in the item to be replaced: 
CJ | would like to write a review. 
(J Attached is a review of this item. 
0 | would recommend 
(name, address, phone) 
to review this item. 
Additional information/review: 
