ae 
2 
: 
; 
ete 
Nature and Man’s Fate. 
THE introduction to theoretical and applied evolution. 
Hardin is further than anyone in blending the insights of 
_ evolution and cybernetics into what may be an embryonic 
science of general development. 
Still it’s a completely 
earthly book. 
The specific history of Darwin and his 
idea. The specific application of evolutionary under- 
_ standing to human survival now. 
. Nature and Man’s Fate 
Garrett Hardin 
peice 
e 
a 
1959; 320 pp. 
Man's Fate 
$.95 postpaid 
from: 
The New American Library, Inc. 
1301 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, N. Y, 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
So we see that the concept of progress, for all its historical importance 
in sheltering the idea of evolution, is not easily applicable to facts 
of biology. 
All men are, by nature, unequal——this is the censored truth of our 
century. We are as afraid of the consequences of admitting this 
truth as the Victorians were of the consequences of admitting that 
men are animals. Yet surely history will ultimately show that, in 
both instances, the consequences are good and compatible with 
human decency. 
As early as 1920, the philosopher, Bertrand Russell, spelled out 
the nightmare qualities of the Russian dream in terms that he never 
needéd to revise in the light of later facts. For his pains and his 
honesty Russell was quietly ousted from his position as the phil- 
osophic spokesman of the liberal elements. 
(Since he was patently 
unfit to speak for the conservatives either, he was henceforth a 
philosophic man without a party. This position may not be the most 
comfortable of all positions, but for a living philosopher it has its 
advantages.) 
As a species becomes increasingly ‘‘successful,”’ its struggle for 
existence ceases to be one of struggle with the physical environment 
or with other species and comes to be almost exclusively competition 
with its own kind. We call that species most successful that has 
made its own kind its worst enemy. 
Man enjoys this kind of success. 
It is one of the few rules of evolution that extreme specialization 
results in eventual extinction. Environmental changes are inevitable, 
and the specialist-species is too strongly committed to one way of 
life to be able rapidly enough to ‘’back up” genetically and take off 
in another ‘‘direction.’’ 
All the evidence of comparative morphology 
and paleontology, fragmentary though it is, indicates that each great 
new group of organisms arises from very unspecialized species of 
the group “‘below”’ it, not from the conspicuously specialized ones. 
MUTATION 
GAUSSIAN 
FREQUENCY 
DISTRIBUTION 
FREQUENCY 
(WUMBERS 
OF 
INDIVIDUALS) 
CMEAN | 
VALUE OF 
MEASURABLE 
VARIABLE 
Fig. 7. The 
effects 
of mutation 
and 
selection 
on 
a Gaussian 
(“normal”) 
distribution curve. 
Population, Eyoliiion: and Birth Control 
Once you’ve woken up to the population squeeze and 
the blindness of most of your fellow men, it’s worth 
looking around. 
Garrett Hardin has assembled a 
strong selection of eyes to look around with. Here 
are the ingredients for understanding. Now, how do 
we get the mule’s attention? 
The closed earth of the future ‘requires economic principles 
which are somewhat different from those of the open earth 
of the past, For the sake of picturesqueness, | am tempted to 
call the open economy the ‘cowboy economy,’ the cowboy 
being symbolic of the illimitable plains and also associated with 
reckless, exploitative, romantic, and violent behavior, which 
is characteristic of open societies. The closed economy of the 
future might similarly be called the ‘spaceman’ economy, in 
which, therefore, man must find his place in a cyclical ecologi- 
© 
cal system which is capable of continuous reproduction of 
_ 
material form even though it cannot escape having inputs of 
Seer ey: 
Kenneth E. Boulding 
It is not easy to define “play” precisely, but whatever it is, it is 
something that is in some sense non-competitive, non-rational, 
non-economic. 
It is also productive of novelty in viewpoints, 
opening a path to new ways.of doing things that would often 
= 
— 
- 
never be discovered it only direct, completely rational, wholly 
—~ 
efficient approaches were employed. Play, for many men, is by | 
no means confined to childhood; it extends into the adult state, 
only changing its form. Freud has said, ‘The child has toys; the 
~ 
mature man has art and science.’ Out of the play called science 
——which is possible only to a society rich enough to suspend 
partially the laws of competition——out of the economically non- 
competitive intellectual play called science there comes, in fact, 
a competitive weapon of the most powerful sort, technology. 
. 
Competition has its own dialectic. 
In order to make a perfect and beautiful machine, it is not requisite 
to know how to make it. Quite so. 
. To Darwinians, Design emerges from blind Waste. ‘’To be an 
Error and to be cast out is a part of God’s Design,” said William 
Blake. 
Av catnesa 
jetenopyiaha 
; # (chrysanthemoides 
pia 
j 1¥Fremontii 
eaitiaine 
ZF 
lat ee S 
Lis 
slendulesa 
ad’ 
a: Jonesii 
wee Saillardioida 
Munzit 
Vi jiaracivide 
ae 
Phi 
ee A ry 
bee were nymii 
Fig. 12. Evolution, 
as 
it has probably occurred 
in a group 
of 
plants: showing how * 
“nature is too disorderly” for those 
who seek to find clean-cut “phylogenetic trees” and uni- 
directional evolution everywhere. (From Clausen, Stages 
in the Evolution 
of Plant 
Species, 
Cornell 
University 
Press, Ithaca, N. Y.; 1951. By permission.) 
The Competitive Exclusion Principle. No two organisms that compete 
in every activity can coexist indefinitely in the same environment. To 
coexist in time, organisms that are potentially completely competitive 
must be geographically isolated from each other. Otherwise, the one 
that is the less efficient yields to the more efficient, no matter how 
slight the difference. When two competing organisms coexist in the 
same geographical region, close examination always shows that they 
are not complete competitors, that one of them draws ona resource 
of the environment that is not available to the other. The corollary 
of the principle is that where there is no geographical isolation of 
genetically and reproductively isolated populations, there must be’ 
as many ecological niches as there are populations. The necessary 
condition for geographical coexistence is ecological specialization. 
And concepts themselves occur in various grades of generality, 
forming a hierarchal complex that has not yet been explicitly 
described. Language is a wondrously subtle and complicated 
tool; by far the greater part of it is to be found only in mathe- 
matics. That which most men call ‘‘language”’ is only a small 
part of man’s concept-handling machinery, scarcely the ABC’s 
of it. 
For more details on organic evolution, see Ernst Mayr’s recent 
classic Animal Species and Evolution (1963; 797 pp. $11.95 
postpaid from Harvard University Press, 79 Garden Street, 
Cambridge, Mass. 02138), The promising, if heretical, hypo- 
Ss 
thesis that evolution may be directly affected by changes 
ss 
within the cells is presented in Lancelot Law Whyte's Internal 
38 
Factors in Evolution (1965; 120 pp. $4.00 postpaid from 
HH 
George Braziller, Inc., 215 Park Avenue South, New York, 
3s 
N. Y. 10003). For a non-too-satisfactory but still tantalizing 
=: 
look into cultural evolution, see Sahlins and Service, Evolution 
38 
and Culture (1960; 131 pp. $3.95 postpaid from The University 
of ese Press, 615 East University, Ann Arbor, Michigan 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
W. H. Freeman & Co. 
660 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
changed. Now, the feedback control is man himself. 
Population, Evolution 
and Birth Control 
Garrett Hardin, ed. 
1964, 1969; 386 pp. 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Among the impotence principles of socio-bi 
competition is inescapable. That species wight 
( 
eliminating all other species as competitors, ends by b 
ec 
ming 
~ 
its own competitor. The world, in spite of comic- strip science i 
kind. “By 
taking thought he can elect the kind of compet 
Ol 
he employs; but he cannot escape all kinds. This is not to imp 
that the election is a trivial matter. 
time survival depend on the fragmentation of the species into 
— 
well-separated populations. But it would be foolhardy 
to say 
— 
what form the separation should take. 
It might be a matter of — 
nations, as we know them; or some sort of caste system, that wou 
permit genetic isolation with geographic unity; or——far more 
ig 
likely——some new kind of communities that are neither natio 
nor caste nor as that has yet been conceived of. 
The crowd-diseases——smallpox, cholera, typhoid, plague, et 
are, by the ecologist, labeled “‘density- dependent factors,’’ wh 
effectiveness i in reducing population is a power function of 
1 
density of the population. No growth of population could gi 
out of hand as long as the crowd- diseases were unconquered, 
means that man did not have to sit in judgment on man, to deci 
who should have a cover at Nature’s feast and who should 
no 
With the development of bacteriological medicine, all this has 
bee 
Darwin's 
life is symbolic. His Autobiography clearly and uncol 
reveals two elements that are needed to produce any creative ger 
int esp ore and alienation. 
... 
 ~ 
occurs is subject to an infinity of permutations. Bran 
The wealthy eccentric is 
anearly extinct dodo. The man Wo al he 
is now an other- directed man. He may become a lawyer or a de 
the alienation required to be creative. (What millionaire today \ 
have the nerve to do what Darwin did——retire to a’ ‘non- 
n-produ 
life in the country to think ?) 
. We can hardly expect a committee to acquiesce in the de 
of tradition. Only an individual can do that, an individual 
responsible to the mob. Now that the truly independent man 
of — 
wealth has disappeared, now that the independence of the academic 
man is fast disappearing, where are we to find the conditions of _ 
‘pressure, is apecn, confined to an adaptive aie (Mou 
Tory). A species broken up into many separate sma 
pressures; 
its populations will wander widely from 
adaptive peak (Mount Risky)—some to perish, som: 
haps, to find the way to new adaptive peaks like 
Opportunity. As before, the water nie the thr 
ing natural selection. 
; 
If the food supply is falling short, or a new disease threa 
- 
us, inventions to relieve it must be made before famine « 
pestilence have done their work. Now, we are far neare 
famine and pestilence than we like to think. Let there b > an 
interruption of the water supply of New York for six hours, y 
and it will show in the death rate. Let the usual trains bring 
ing supplies into the city be interrupted for forty-eight hou 
and some people will die of hunger. Every engineer wh ha 
to deal with the administration of the public facilities fo) a gi 
city has been struck with terror at the risks which peopl 
willing to undergo and must undergo every day, and at 
complacent ignorance of these risks on the part of his « 
Norbert Wiener 
The rest oh ina signet 
i lay there stedoieae! fore 
quavering human cry in the night and the cold fac 
me to know | could not save him or the thousan¢ 
-whose cries ! could not hear. The next 
mo 
_and told us that the beggar was dead. 
