* 
Earth Times 
Just in time, a newspaper for sure-enough world-savers. 
!t has a good wide scope, and intelligence to match its 
fervor. 
If the format and art-work looks identical to Rolling 
Stone, that’s because it comes out of the same offices. 
Earth Times 
Stephanie Mills, ed 
$5.00 /year (monthly) 
*$6.00 in Canada 
$8.00 overseas 
from: 
Earth Times 
625 Third Street 
San Francisco, CA 94107 
KW: 
It’s really incredible that | get a lot of press coverage because 
of the fact that | come out and make startling pronouncements. 
The amusing thing is that there isn’t even any follow-up to figure 
out if they’re true or not. You would think that the media itself 
would peel off a reporter, just for fun, to go look at the records 
and see if what I’m saying is correct. The newspapers don’t do 
this. You know, people go away from my lectures convinced 
that what I've said is true, but they don’t know what it is that 
I’ve said——it’s the damnedest situation, and my feeling is that 
this is what we've got to work on. We've got to learn how to 
communicate an idea that sticks. 
KW: One of the conclusions that comes out of models of this 
sort is that most large-scale social systems are counter-intuitive. 
SM: Counter-intuitive? 
KW: Counter-intuitive. That is, the properties of complex modern 
social systems are such that the intuitively obvious solutions to 
various problems are typically wrong. 
. 
Remember that, as a lady hitchhiker, 
KW: 
| think it’s going to take economic types of factors to get 
people to change. One thing that could produce a gigantic change 
would be hard evidence that we are not going into a recession but 
a deep depression. The red flags are up. We're not quite sure any- 
more that this is a recession that we're going to be out of ina 
little while. We're beginning to think that it’s something of a very 
different order. Basically it’s challenging the fundamental idea of 
modern America, that growth is good and necessary and inevitable. 
SM: How does a recession relate to uncontrolled growth? 
KW: 
It's showing that the idea that growth is inevitable is a lot of 
baloney. The stock market is now where it was six years ago. 
That's not a great big lot of galloping growth. The air lines and air- 
plane manufacturers have been pursuing the idea that bigger and 
faster is better for some time now, and they’re falling on their faces 
on that one. 
The jumbo jets and the air buses are going to cream 
the airlines and the SST will just wipe them out. 
KW: The only thing that will get people to change is the severity 
of the problems. Like at the moment when | say that we’re 
moving into an ice age, most people say, ‘“Hah. That types him—— 
you know, he’s nuts.’’ But ten years from now, things will be 
weird enough that people will be saying, ‘By God, so that’s why 
it's snowing in May!’ The impression | get is that on one hand, 
everyone is fed up with hearing about the environment, and on 
the other, we haven't really communicated anything yet. The 
whole situation just baffles me. Everybody is alerted to the 
fact that there is a large and obviously educated group frightened 
stiff. All kinds of people are running around making dire and 
legitimate projections. But | don’t think that the public is 
really alarmed. An ice age is a six-degree drop in temperature, and 
we've already got a third of that in New York City, and nobody 
even notices. | think you have to drop blocks of ice on people 
before they become aware that the weather's changing. 
Let us join together with free wolves and watch them explore the 
sweet and secret territory of our imagination and their wild homes. 
Watch the sky change with them in the long slow arctic winter. 
See them briskly home from the evening's hunt carrying a belly- 
ful of caribou meat for the cubs. Or sleeping in front of the den 
at noon, resting but mindful of the fresh wind and the scent of 
the change of-seasons. 
|n play, in greeting, exploring the ever new 
possibilities of being alive and intact in a world still whole. We can 
have wolves, and they can have us——and we need never meet—— 
except in the silent pact that we make together. 
Creatures under a common moon. 
Hitchhiking in Numbers: 
If you find someone firmly entrenched 
in your chosen thumb-site, exténd greet- 
ings and ask if you can share territory. 
And, yes, there is safety in joining forces. 
If there’s a gentleman your radar indi- 
cates you can trust, stick with him as 
long as your paths hang together. This 
has multiple advantages: Next to a single 
female, the male-femalé*combination at- 
tracts the widest range of people. Even 
little old ladies will pick you up if you 
look vaguely in love. With the added 
protection, you get to relax and enjoy the 
tide. Very few (even horny and male) 
drivers will molest an accompanied fe- 
male. Another female is better than no 
companionship at all, although it’s just 
it’s not only your absolute prerogative to 
be 
choosy, 
but 
absolutely 
necessary. 
There’s no social convention in the world 
which says that you can’t turn down a 
ride, or ask to be let out of a car the 
minute things strike you as potentially 
uncomfortable. You may also, in certain 
circumstances, lie like mad about your 
marital 
and 
-social 
status, your health 
(nobody’s going to bug a chick who’s just 
announced 
that she may vomit), your 
phone number 
(memorize 
that of the 
local police station or SPCA), your ad- 
dress (if he offers to take you home, but 
you don’t want to see him ever again, ask 
to be let out two or three blocks away). 
As a matter of fact, if you find your life, 
your chastity, your peace of mind, or 
Kenneth Watt 
So) 
Pe 
A IN 
en
e
aN 
Attar
age:
possible 
that, however 
innocently, 
she 
even just your sense of humor in danger, 
may hang you up by agreeing to a side- 
you may tell any story your nimble mind 
trip to the beach. 
gan concoct on short notice. 
Still hunted, poisoned, trapped, captured & polluted, the wild wolf is almost extinct. 
22000500 0e0Rs Fone 
Ues ESE eSESeseEseoReS Deseo seeseaseseseeEsEssasenens 
SOPPOARATEE SSS SHAE ROS OSSS RARE SOROS 
ORCENEF DOCH eFsenesoseesaseseseS 
The best things cannot be told, the second best are misunderstood. 
After that comes civilized conversation; after that, mass indoctrin- 
Omen 
ation; after that, intercultural exchange. And so, proceeding, we 
come to the problem of communication: 
the opening of one’s own 
truth and depth to the depth and truth of another in such a way as 
to establish an authentic community of existence. 
This here is a big beautiful inexpensive magazine about the 
religion of ecology. I’m not sure you can get religion from 
Joseph Campbell 
a magazine. Omen does give good annotated access to its 
The Masks of God, Creative Mythology 
sources of inspiration; in fact it stocks them for mail order 
e 
sale, which is handy. 
One must admire the Japanese system of education for giving 
its school children a chance to visit and live on every island of 
Japan during the summers at government expense. 
Planeta Fresco, 14, Via Manzoni, 20121 Milano, Italy. Editor: 
Nando Sottsass Pivano, 
This Italian magazine of poetry and art is worth the pictures 
even if you don't read Italian. 
“We live in a metaphysical mediterranean island, plenty of 
priests, police, fascist and communist congressmen, memories 
of glorious millenia which no one ever saw, which everyone 
keeps invoking as a magic alibi. 
“We will always send to you all we do and please give us your 
help with your mags and thoughts. We love you, we love all 
the world,” says Planeta Fresco. 
—_ 
e 
When | first encountered the images of The Tarot for the Aquarian 
Age | was immediately struck by their evocative force. Unlike the 
images of the old Tarot deck, which (to me) had appeared lifeless, 
these had a kind of direct electric-emotional ‘charge,’ and some of 
them were strongly reminiscent of images found in dreams or under 
the effects of certain chemicals. 
| started to ‘work’ with then—— 
that is, | put the ones | was most drawn-to up on the wall and began 
to meditate and reflect on their meanings. Over a period of a few 
weeks they would become strikingly ‘’familiar’’——they would intrude 
suddenly in my waking thoughts, fragments might appear in: dreams 
or during quiet moments. They appeared to work a kind of subtle 
transformation of unconscious, prerational ‘““complexes’’ (to use the 
Omen 
Walter H. Bowart, Ed 
$8.00 /year (9 issues) 
REVERSER 
from: 
Jungian terminology). A fixed image-complex, surrounded by 
Omen whey 
anxious feelings, could, by contact with one of these Tarot images 
Box 12457 
evolve into an enlarging, affirmative, enlightening vision. Then 
Tucson, Arizona 85711 
after a time, another one of the series might emerge as an indicator 
of the ‘‘next step.”’ 
