yee 
‘ 
_Valtox Drug Identification Kit 
/n three minutes, at about a nickel a test, you can selectively 
identify benzedrine, dexedrine, methedrine, opium, heroin, 
codeine, morphine, barbiturates, cocaine, LSD, marihuana, 
hashish, STP, peyote, and drugs such as aspirin, antihist- 
amines, etc. The manufacturer prefers to do business with 
police departments, schools, and hospitals. 
Valtox Master Kit 
$49. 50 postpaid 
from: 
Valley Toxicology Service 
P. O. Box 1048 
Davis, CA 95616 
Ass, 
Ts 
Drugs from A to Z 
This is a dope-to-English dictionary, amazingly thorough 
(if occasionally astray) and surprisingly useful. 
/ wonder 
if there will soon be Berlitz courses in the language. 
Drugs from A to Z: A oie et: 
Richard R. Lingeman 
1969; 277 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
McGraw-Hill Paperbacks 
Princeton Road 
Hightstown, N. J. 08520 
Manchester Road 
Manchester, Mo. 63062 
8171 Redwood Highway 
Novato, CA 94947 
: 
4 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
134 
*~ 
The Hallucinogens 
2: 
You wouldn’t nose out onto the freeway if you didn’t know 
=: how to drive, and you damn well shouldn’t go playing “eat 
me” and “drink me” unless you know what you're about. 
Here, in a book ostensibly for the medical profession, is 
the whole story to date. Hoffer and Osmond know more 
about this field than anyone else in the world, and their 
aim is to investigate it further. Osmond is one of the unsung 
sages of our times, working quietly in his own way to find 
out the nature of human nature. 
(He is a leading researcher 
into schizophrenia, the coiner of the word “psychedelic”, 
other interesting things, including the reliability of the Jungian 
personality types. 
There are at least a few pages on every 
hallucinogen you’ve ever heard of, and on a lot you haven't; 
e.g.: the “dream fish” kyphosus fuscus, and the plants the 
ancient Norse used to induce the state of “berserk” (and 
why 
it became, among themselves, illegal.) Where previous 
experimenters have used themselves as guinea-pigs, their 
diaries are reprinted, e.g.: Wasson’s trips with psilocyba 
mushrooms. 
In most cases, Osmond has tried the stuff 
himself; and he is a very patient, understanding and aware 
guinea-pig indeed. For people who remember their college 
chemistry, the molecular diagrams are here, for people 
who want to read more an exhaustive index shows you 
the way. 
This is a source book of knowledge, but by the 
by Osmond has two main observations of a philosophical 
nature: 
1) man has been looking for hallucinogens from 
the beginning, and has been finding them, and 2) you 
don’t get something for nothing. 
You can believe this 
man; he has smoked with the best of them, and popped 
things into his mouth that haven’t been tried in a few 
centuries. 
Warning: not reading this book may be injurious to your 
health. 
[Suggested and reviewed by Stephan Chodorov] 
z% $ 
Bet A. Haier nret 2. Cerraend 
| THE HALLUCINOGENS | 
The Hallucinogens 
A. Hoffer and H. Osmond 
1967; 626 pp. 
$25.00 postpaid 
from: 
Academic Press 
111 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Perhaps nutmeg pastry is popular because of the myristicin it con- 
tains. A feeling of well-being, following the ingestion of these cakes, 
might easily lead to a conditioned reaction to this pastry. 
In the 
same way it is likely that adrenoxyl is used by surgeons because of 
the feeling of well-being it induces in their patients, and not because 
it isa valuable hemostatic agent (Hoffer and Osmond, 1960). The 
euphorient or relaxant properties of nutmeg and of myristicin should 
be examined carefully. Too little attempt has been made by modern 
man to discover safe plant antitension and euphorient remedies. 
loaded. [from the sense of load, a heavy weight; one who is “carry- 
ing a load” is “burdened” by a heavy intoxication] in a state of drug 
intoxication (not limited to alcoholic intoxication) . 
loco. MarIj UANA. Compare MEXICAN LOCOWEED. 
long con. a major, elaborately plotted confidence game. Compare 
SHORT CON. 
lophophorine. one of the alkaloids found in the hallucinogenic 
PEYOTE cactus. 
Lorfan. [LEVALLORPHAN tartrate, Roche Laboratories] a synthetic 
NARCOTIC antagonist which acts to reverse the effects of the OPIATE 
analgesics. Lorfan is customarily injected along with the opiate in 
order to lessen the danger of respiratory depression from the latter 
without impairing analgesia. Used alone, Lorfan may itself induce 
severe respiratory depression; hence, it is recommended that it be 
administered in conjunction with an opiate except in emergencies. 
It is also valuable in cases of accidental or deliberate narcotic over- 
dosages resulting in respiratory depression (along with other medical 
measures). Lorfan 
is not effective against BARBITURATE-induced 
respiratory depression. Compare NALORPHINE, NALLINE. 
Acorus calamus is a plant known in Asia, Europe, and North Am 
the doctor who gave Huxley his mescalin, and is into a hundred 
~ spoke freely of their impending death with much less depres 
for its medicinal properties. 
It was also known as flag root, rat 
roo’ 
and sweet calomel. During the great depression of the 1930's 
chewed in England by people unable to buy tobacco. 
Recently one of our informants well acquainted with the habit 
the Indians of northern Canada, reported his personal experien 
rat root collected in northern Alberta by the Cree. He reported t 
nearly all the Indians over age 40 used rat root regularly but the Sa 
younger Indians were unfamiliar with it and its use was discou urage 
by physicians who practiced there. Rat root users seemed t 
] 
and were not subject to alcoholism. The Indians used rat root (a) 
an antifatigue medicine (they chewed.about 1 inch of the dried 00 
which had a diameter equal to a pencil); (b) as an analgesic fo! 
relieving toothache, headache, etc; (c) for relief of asthma; (d) 
oral hygiene, and (e) to relieve hangover. 
2G 
Our informant had over the years tested these medicinal ‘quah itie 
and generally confirmed them. 
|t was particularly effective ee 
ating fatigue. On one occasion, he walked 12 miles in the nor 
woods to fight a forest fire. He was out of condition and was exha 
at the end of the march. He chewed and swallowed 2 inches of ra ® 
he seemed to be walking 1 foot above the ground and felt wore 
The effect was very unlike amphetamine. On his return home he- 
was very exhausted but after a night's sleep was normal. 
ay 3 
LSD was used not only in “‘Island,’’ but in Chicago to relieve pai 
has powerful analgesic properties. Kast and Collins (1964) gave L 
to a group of patients many of whom knew they were dying 
cancer. 
In addition to their relief from pain some of the patien 
veloped a peculiar disregard for the gravity of their situatic 
than they had had previously. The newer attitude to death last 
longer than the analgesic action. It is likely those who have av 
psychedelic or transcendental reaction may equate this with | 
death. This would account for the new more beneficial fra 
mind for those patients who were dying. 
3 
One of our subjects recently told us that since his psychedeli 
ience several years ago, he no longer feared death. 
: 
‘ 
There is a difference between LSD and other hallucinogenic cor 
pounds. LSD seems in small doses to act as a stimulant not unli 
amphetamines, in larger doses it seems to possess a depressant | 
eff 
Other hallucinogenic compounds tend to have depressant effects at 
t 
all the dose levels. 
We had, as we later learned, merely hit upon a solution to alcoho 
which the Native American Church of North America, or its 
N: 
antecedent groups, had used long before. According to Slotkin 
(1956) the Indians believed peyote took away the desire for stron 
drink and claimed that hundreds of drunkards had been “dragged 
d 
from their downward way.’’ The small band of Indians-in Saske 
chewan who allowed us to observe their ceremonies one nigh 
explained that their religion based upon God and the use of p 
to reach Him included three important principles: 
(a) Them 
must be a good man, (b) he must educate hitnself, and (c) h 
not drink. Thus we can only conclude that the peyote religion 
the chief variable. Several Indians related to us how they, had 
achieved sobriety only after this church. 
; 
loids (Downing, 1962). Of these the best known is ibogaine, 
amine derivative. This plant, named in 1889 by Baillon, was 
fatigue and tiredness and as an aphrodisiac. Dybowski and 
(1901) extracted the psychologically active alkaloid which t 
ibogaine. They reported that the natives considered the pla 
lent or similar to alcohol, that it was a stimulant which did not 
the thought processes of the user. 
* 
phlet has all the basic information you need, includin 
suppliers of niacin. 
- 
Megavitamin Therapy 
20 pp. 
$.25 postpaid 
from: 
Better Health Center 
5629 State Road 
Cleveland, Ohio 44134 
~ 
The megavitamin therapy is not intended to cure vitamin deficiencies 
For that, generally, much lower dosages are needed, and na 
vitamin preparations are recommended. Physicians using the 
megavitamin therapy know that the illnesses igetect by it are. 
vitamin deficiencies. 
The megavitamin therapy is used for schizophrenia, neurosis, 
glycemia, alcoholism, anxiety states, malvaria, arthritis, senilit 
hyperlipemia, hypercholesterolemia, coronaries and LSD 
In the megavitamin therapy the vitamins are used to b 
faulty body chemistry. They were selected because the) 
pened, can be taken orally ie fore 
no ‘sane 
e 
