—.—". 
=. 
x= 
 ° 
§ 
ay 
—~ 
fr 
v 
GOOD T 
o pike OLS 
Hictly 
Evolved 
Toolbox 
by J. Baldwin 
Our portable shop has been evolving for about 20 
years now. 
There’s nothing really very special 
about it except that a continuing process of 
removing obsolete or inadequate tools and replac- 
ing them with more suitable ones has resulted in 
a collection that has become a thing-making 
system rather than a pile of hardware. 
It’s a 
generalist’s shop; we’re not equipped to produce 
fine cabinetry or precision machine work. We 
can manipulate all common materials. 
It’s orderly 
enough to permit strangers to find things, but it 
stops short of compulsive anal neatness. 
It enables 
things to get done with less hassle and so things 
GET 
done with less hassle. We use it as a three- 
dimensional sketchpad. 
People keep asking us what tools to get, where 
to get them, and how to keep them ready to use. 
Here’s the story: 
TAND IN SEARS Tool Dept, and it'll soon be 
obvious that you don’t need one-of-each even 
if you have the money. Aska craftsman what 
to buy, and you'll get as many answers as 
people you ask, for each has his own favorites and spe- 
cialized needs. 
They'll all agree on one thing though: 
BUY THE BEST YOU CAN. And the more a tool will 
be used, the better the quality should be. Tools used 
every day, especially electric tools, should be of 
commercial or production line grade. You usually 
can’t find these at hardware stores. 
Industrial supply 
houses are where to go. Take a friend who can buy 
wholesale. These tools will be expensive, so we'd better 
justify the cost. 
— a_i 
Mail Order 
Silvo Hardware Co. 
Tool Supplies 
Catalog 
$1 from: 
For more, see 
Silvo Hardware Co. 
pp. 142-154. 
c/o Advertising Dept. 
2205 Richmond Street 
Brookstone Tools 
Philadelphia, PA 19125 
Catalog 
free from: 
U.S. General 
Brookstone Company 
Supply Company 
127 Vose Farm Road 
Catalog 
Peterborough, NH 03458 
$1 from: 
Garrett Wade Co. 
U.S. General 
Catalog 
Supply Company 
$1 ees 
100 General Place 
Department WE 
Garrett Wade Co., Inc. 
: 
{G1 Ave! of the Americas... 
Jericho,NY 11753 
New York, NY 10013 
Woodcraft 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. 
Supply Company 
Catalog 
Catalog 
free from: 
$1 from: 
Woodcraft Supply Co. 
313 Montvale Avenue 
Woburn, MA 01888 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. 
5959 West Howard St. 
Chicago, IL 60648 
BOSCH TOOLS — Note how this drill fits my hand, 
putting my weight directly behind the bit. 
It’s the only 
drill we’ve seen where your hand doesn’t cover cooling 
slots. Smooth and super powerful, these drills last a 
long time. They are also double insulated which makes 
them a lot safer, particularly outdoors. The Bosch jig- 
saw is merely the best there is. Ask anyone who has used 
one. My only regret is that | waited 5 years to get one, 
and made do with a poorly designed domestic commercial 
grade machine whose bearings failed regularly and whose 
handle soon got too hot to hold. 
(Sears best grade jig- 
saw is more versatile but not as high quality.) 
For many, the best reason to go first class is that 
good tools are a real pleasure to use and handle. 
This 
helps make work less labor. The heavy duty stuff 
looks brutal. 
It wasn’t made to look good in the box, 
it was made to do the job and has been perfected 
| 
over many years. The tough ones have their own kind 
of beauty that you'll see better as your viewpoint gets 
aligned with reality. Such tools, of course, last longer 
and are repairable when they finally do wear. They 
can take a lot more abuse, especially the inevitable 
overload. They can handle the bigger jobs and poor 
working conditions that would soon trash cheap ver- 
sions. And after a few years in your hand, they often 
get to be old friends. 
For tools that get used now and then, middle quality 
will do. By that | mean Sears better grades and no 
lower. 
Really cheapo tools are of no use at all, can 
be dangerous, and often break the first time you use 
them. They are also discouraging to use, which might 
even cause a beginner to give up. Our only regrets 
have been not buying the best when we could have. 
Tools that receive great strain, such as gear pullers, 
should be super top quality only. 
If you only need 
one every five years, rent it. 
OK so what tools do you need? How do you start 
the stash? There are a few basic tools that everyone 
should have available: Hammer, crosscut saw, adjust- 
able wrench, pliers, screwdrivers (get a set), tape 
measure, hand drill and bits. Beyond these, you'd 
best gather tools as you need them. Auto work will 
require a rather complete set of wrenches and a whole 
boxfull of special tools, some of which are for partic- 
ular vehicles. Carpentry will require another whole 
group: 
planes, chisels, etc. 
Electrical and plumbing 
still more. Our rule of thumb is if we need to borrow 
a common tool more than once, we buy one. 
Fleamarkets are a good place to look for expensive 
items like vises or anvils. Absolutely the best place 
to get a whole mess of tools at once is to keep alert 
for a widow selling off her deceased husband’s retire- 
ment shop. Another place to look is auctions, but 
you’d better know what you're doing. You should 
shop around. 
Recently in the Bay Area, we were 
quoted prices varying 50% on a tool we wanted! 
If 
you want to buy a bunch all at once, (which makes 
sense these days of inflation — tools are a good 
savings account), some stores will make you a 20% 
deal. Even Sears can be dealt with, as the sales people 
work on commission. They and other stores also have 
unadvertised freight-damaged goods hidden away. 
These can be good deals, as the damage Is often 
merely cosmetic. You can give a salesman your name 
(and take his card) and have him call you when a cer- 
tain tool is on sale or arrives damaged. 
Whether in a Big Store or private sale, you should 
critically inspect each tool for condition. These days, 
many new tools by reputable (?) manufacturers are 
faulty. Used ones may be worn beyond repair. Any- 
way, be nitpicky about it; you'll be living with it in 
Not pictured. GLOVES & GOGGLES — The goggles 
save your eyes. The gloves (leather) save your hands and 
let you add double power to screwdrivers and snips. 
(I 
should be wearing goggles in these posed photographs.) 
your hand. And beware of package deals claimed to 
be a great saving. The ‘“complete mechanics tool set 
for $450.00” often includes tools you don’t need, 
and may force you to take inferior items that you 
would be better off picking up individually. 
What do you do about that little voice that whispers, 
“Buy one, you might need it someday!’’ Well, it’s 
possible you'\| be needing them a// someday, but 
Sears is only the tip of the iceberg. Have you ever 
seen a rea/ hardware catalog? 2000 pages? On the 
other hand it often does pay to get a set of tools 
that greatly increases your capability, such as a weld- 
ing rig. Another way to go is for a group to buy a 
set of tools for working on one particular item, such 
as old Chevy 6 engines, and then everyone in the 
group that needs a vehicle gets one that uses that 
engine and hence those tools, and the consequent 
parts pile. (That’s being done around here. There 
must be dozens of 56 Chevy pickups and flatbeds 
within 30 miles.) Some groups get known for 
specialties: ‘‘the Butterfly Mountain people fix 
tractors.” Those communities and families pool 
their resources and buy a set of expensive heavy duty 
tools maybe for tractor repair. You have to be pretty 
mellow to make this work, especially if there is a high 
turnover of people. But this is a growing trend, and 
we think a good one. 
It leads to barter and lessens 
the need for duplicate sets of specialty equipment. 
Our shop is known for its versatility. 
It’s portable — 
we've installed the entire thing in a recycled 20-year- 
old, 2% ton bookmobile née breadtruck. Some 
tools like the radial arm saw deploy through hatches 
in the side of the truck to be used outdoors. Others 
fold under the workbenches (which are all the same 
height to facilitate handling large projects). Windows 
are strategically placed to permit long items to be 
handled in the drillpress and bandsaw. Sixty drawers 
from an old post office hold a host of small com- 
monly used items and 500 babyfood jars are pregnant 
with various sizes of fasteners. An assortment of 
scrap metal rides in lockers under the chassis along 
with a 4000 watt slow-running gasoline generator and 
the welding rig. The curbside body wall unfolds like 
a camping tent trailer to raise the floor area to 12 x 
13 feet with a folding 6 x 7 workbench in the middle 
augmenting the ones along the walls. 
It’s been set up 
in 12 locations in 10 years. 
It also pulls the 20-foot 
Airstream Trailer (The Silver Turd) | live in. 
The tools were chosen for quality and versatility. 
With versatility goes a handy ability to work in har- 
mony with other tools, enhancing all. For example, 
with the drills and vises we have, we can drill a hole 
at any angle in just about anything. The combina- 
tions allow us to easily mass-produce parts like dome 
struts or Inkle-loom frames. This gives a nice poten- 
tial for making money as well as greatly easing tasks 
that might be as bad as working in Detroit. Versa- 
tility also means needing fewer tools which means 
less money out, less space for storage, and less tools 
to keep track of. 
