STEAMBOAT 
and a 5,000 year record of gold being better than 
politicians’ promises. 
In my dear unhumble opinion (remember, had you bet 
$1,000 with me in 1970 you‘d 
be laughing all the way 
to the banco with a mere $66,666.67 in your dear fist), 
all bets in bonds, stocks, and other traditional passive 
investment ventures in the U.S. market are betting on 
Jimmy’s two smiles. 
Fun Ways of Shooting Craps 
Did you ever figure out that if gold reaches $1,000, then 
the Feds’ gold holdings will offset the entire foreign dollar 
holdings. When gold reaches $3,900 the U.S. govern- 
ment’s gold holdings will offset the entire national debt. 
You think gold won't reach $3,900 before 1990? You 
believe in the tooth fairy, don’t you? 
An interesting thing.is that as the lemmings have swirled 
around in the gold market, making it an unesthetic place 
for us cranky folk who preached gold’s virtues a decade 
ago; the stocks of gold mining companies have not gone 
up in the same dizzy way (nor have they swooped down 
as vertiginously). Many companies which have to buy 
gold and silver may find it cheaper to mine it, and 
eventually the great horde of “investors” will hear that 
gold and silver come out of the ground and then, whee. 
You might want to get into an interesting crap shoot, the 
“penny” gold and silver stocks. Mind you, this is for 
fun; don’t sell your assurance policy, and by no means 
dig up the Krugerrands or dimes. A fun way to partici- 
pate in the dismantling of Western Capitalism by the 
Trilaterals is to play in these cheap stocks — who knows, 
you might make some money, and if you just have to 
read the paper, what a nice way to adrenalize the day. 
SILVER AND GOLD 
Nice courteous folk who have been in the business 
for years and don’t bite too hard on your dimes. 
freefrom: 
Bramble Coins 
1604 Michigan 
National Tower 
Lansing, MI 48933 
Bramble Coins 
information 
SWISS ANNUITIES 
The Autumn Annuities is Junior High School lucid, 
utterly persuasive, and gives you all the info you need. 
At $15 the book is overpriced as a book, but it includes 
application forms and information otherwise unavailable. 
A US. broker cannot legally sell a ‘free’ American a 
Swiss annuity; but you can still buy on your own. 
PF sells the book with a money-back guarantee. 
Don’t 
like it, send it back. Personal Finance /s the deal /etter 
for folk into making and hiding money. 
Tax Angles, 
same address, is $44 for 12 issues. At the very least see 
that your library gets it. Read a/l about how the wily 
capitalist hunts the elusive loophole; how smiley Jimmie 
the Georgia Pecan Deacon hasn’t plugged anything. 
These 
are probably the most lucid, and least gung ho, of the 
multitudes of letters advising you how to make and 
squirrel away money whilst the Fed fiddles and burns. 
The Autumn Annuities 
(A Life Income in 
Swiss Francs) 
Jean-Pierre Bernard 
1979; 76 pp. 
$15 postpaid 
Personal Finance 
Jim Kelder, Editor 
$65/yr. (24 issues) 
While | am at it, all you libertarian types might like to 
make a $15 donation to the National Taxpayers Union 
for a subscription to Dollars and Sense, $75/year (12 
issues including membership) from: National Taxpayers 
Union, 325 Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington DC 20003. 
It may just drive you insane with its tales of Fed funnies. 
Tax Angles 
Vernon K. Jacobs, Editor 
$44/12 issues 
all from: 
Personal Finance 
901 North Washington 
Street #605 W 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
PENNY MINING STOCKS 
For $6.50, Western Mining News se//s a co/lection of 
charts on all the registered and many of the over-the- 
counter stocks sold in the Spokane Exchange. As of the 
end of February 1980 there are 22 stocks at less than 
11 cents ashare. Just think, spend $100 and own 100 
shares each of ten mining companies. Silver Beaver. 
Painted Desert. North Star. King of Pine. Lucky Star. 
“Well, one of my companies dropped 50% yesterday, 
but I’m getting well with my 
Silver Beaver shares, 
oh sure.” Wheeeee. 
@ 
Western Mining News 
R.R. Rutcasky, Editor 
$26/yr. (52 issues) 
postpaid from: 
Western Mining News 
227 Peyton Building 
Spokane, WA 99201 
Earning Money Without a Job 
Many people want to leave their traditional 40 hr. a week 
jobs. For most of them, starting a business or buying one 
are the alternatives they dream of. Unfortunately the 
skill to run a business is very scarce and most people fail. 
The real answer to being your own boss is many small! 
jobs. 
This book is the best guide available. 
—Michael Phillips 
Earning Money 
Without a Job 
Jay Conrad Levinson 
1979; 204 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Holt, Rinehart 
and Winston 
383 Madison Avenue 
NewYork, NY 10017 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
| have been without a job for over seven years, yet | never 
have been without work. 
| have earned considerably 
more money without a job than | did with a job, yet | 
rarely work more than three days a week. 
| have tasted 
freedom and quickly grew addicted to its pleasures. 
Become aware of the immense amount of information 
provided to you by the Yellow Pages. Through study of 
them you will learn of voids in your area, shortages, 
needs, and growth opportunities. 
e 
The more amazing you are, the more you will succeed. 
When you do not have the brute force of a gigantic adver- 
tising budget, you must turn to the brute force of your 
Own imagination to communicate your abilities or goods. 
And the way to exercise that force is to be as amazing 
as you can. 
There are some people who are paid large sums just to be 
amazing. Jim Moran is one. He sold refrigerators to 
Eskimos to prove how amazing he is. A young couple 
who had just opened a boutique lacked the money to 
advertise it properly. So they got married in their 
boutique. The ceremony was covered on TV and in the 
newspaper. 
All free publicity — and just because they 
were amazing. 
It does not require talent or brains to 
be amazing, merely courage. 
Go Hire Yourself An Employer 
How to get a job doing what you want to do. Everyone 
who has ever been unemployed knows that help wanted 
ads, employment services, and their ilk, don’t do you 
much good. 
This book shows some better approaches. 
Advice on interviews, how to write a good resume, what 
to do when you quit (or get fired). 
The style is brusque 
and slang-ridden, and sometimes sounds pretty stupid. 
But don’t be fooled. 
There is a solid core of real 
information here. 
—William Bonney 
Go Hire Yourself 
An Employer 
(Revised Edition) 
Richard K. trish 
1972, 1978; 238 pp. 
$4.50 Postpaid from: 
Anchor Books 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
What happens if | begin a job, and the job I really want 
is offered two months later? 
Quit and take the second job. 
It's crackers to be “‘obligated’’ to employers. Betcha he/ 
she will congratulate you on your good luck. 
e 
Never, never, never look for a job — always interview for 
information. 
Let's say, biostatistics is your trade. You 
work for a small, wealthy, but stagnant firm whose 
management will never admit you to its ownership. You 
want to find a firm — the same size — with growth poten- 
tial where you can own a piece of the company. 
Because 
Uncle Sam takes more than he deserves (and you can 
afford) after the first $25,000 in salary, you know a piece 
of the stock action is the only way you're going to survive. 
So, spend your early mornings, lunch hours, or the late 
afternoons checking out firms you might want to work 
with and who might need your skill. (Remember, one of 
your skills is knowing how to find a job.) You stake out 
the key people in each company, the men and women 
you would want to work for and from whom you can 
learn, and ask their advice on how to move up in your 
field. Always obtain the names of four more key people 
and companies from each person you interview and be- 
fore long you've snowballed your job campaign into fifty 
interviews and, | bet, four hidden job offers. 
eeceereee 
eee 
ees 
eee 
eee 
ee 
es 
How to Get Control of Your Time 
and Your Life 
Almost a parody of the self-help genre, this glib book 
nevertheless can shake your bad habits and start better 
ones. 
I’ve used it and wasn't sorry. 
Ive fallen away 
from the proper list keeping, but | work out of better 
Priorities now — more realistic and more what | want — 
and I’m glad. Last time | saw author Lakein he was 
headed for an indefinite vacation at Big Sur — proving 
something, | would say. 
—SB 
How to Get Control 
of Your Time and 
Your Life 
Alan Lakein 
1973; 204 pp. 
$1 95 postpaid from: 
New American Library 
P.O. Box 120 
120 Woodbine 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
The 80/20 rule suggests that in a list of ten items, doing 
two of them will yield most (80 percent) of the value. 
Find these two, label them A, get them done. 
Leave most 
of the other eight undone, because the value you'll get 
from them will be significantly less than that of the two 
highest-value items. 
These examples, drawn from everyday life, should enable 
you to feel more comfortable about concentrating on 
high-value tasks, even at the cost of ignoring many 
lower-value tasks: 
OP 
PAP 
RIE 
ICE 
IO 
CEL 
AP 
EPH 
per 8 
80 percent of sales come from 20 percent of customers 
80 percent of production is in 20 percent of the 
product line 
80 percent of sick leave is taken by 20 percent 
of employees 
80 percent of file usage is in 20 percent of files 
80 percent of dinners repeat 20 percent of recipes 
If you have to procrastinate, I’m going to show you how 
to do it positively. 
Sit in a chair and do nothing. That's right — nothing. 
Don’t read a book, don’t shuffle papers, don’t tackle 
your knitting, don’t watch TV — just sit completely still. 
If you sit doing nothing for fiteen or twenty minutes 
(don’t cheat — you must do absolutely nothing), you 
should become very uneasy. That A-1 is staring you right 
in the face. And you're doing nothing. Precious minutes 
that you can use accomplishing a lifetime goal are slipping 
by. And you’re sitting in a chair — doing nothing. When- 
ever | find myself procrastinating, this is the technique | 
use. Believe me, after ten minutes I'm off and running 
on my A-1. 
Landlording 
This is very valuable. Even though it includes California 
law, it is applicable in most states. 
The advice is 
clear, concise and based on experience 
— 
= 
in Berkeley, California, a tough area. 
—Michael Phillips 
Landlording 
(A Handymanual for 
Scrupulous Landlords 
and Landladies Who 
Do It Themselves) 
Leigh Robinson 
1975, 1978; 254 pp. 
$12.50 postpaid from: 
ExPress 
P.O. Box 1373 
Richmond, CA 94802 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
5 
In landlording, 
you use more supplies than the homeowner 
do-it-yourselfer does, and many retailers know it. Your 
local hardware store may give you charge privileges and 
a 10 percent discount to boot. Ask. Sears has a contract 
sales department which offers rental property owners 
special discounts on catalog sales and-on other merchan- 
dise, like coin-operated laundry machines. Ward's offers 
trade discounts in certain of its retail departments. Other 
firms are anxious to do business with you, too, if you let 
them know who you are and what your requirements are. 
Take advantage of these privileges. 
It’s good do-it-yourself 
landlording and it’s good business. 
NG. 
ANOLON 
i ed 
THE RISING SUN 
: EIGHBORHOOD Dee 
The Crowells were the first people 1 met who 
never said something was red. They’d say a thing 
was puce or mauve or magenta or vermillion and 
I wouldn’t know if that was more like red or 
green. They called me color deaf. 
COMMUNITY 
WORKING 
