4s 
Dene te ee ee 
ert oa 
. 
«“' ea = 
«WHOLE SYSTEMS 
| 
54 EVOLUTION 
Nature and Man’s Fate 
THE introduction to theoretical and applied evolution. 
Hardin is further than anyone in blending the insights of 
evolution and cybernetics into what may be an embry- 
onic science of general development. 
Still it’s a 
completely earthly book. 
The specific history of Darwin 
and his idea. 
The specific application of evolutionary 
understanding to human survival now. 
—SB 
Nature and 
Man’s Fate 
Garrett Hardin 
1959; 320 pp. 
$1 25 postpaid from: 
The New American 
Library, Inc. 
P.O. Box 120 
120 Woodbine 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
As a species becomes increasingly ‘‘successful,’’ its 
struggle for existence ceases to be one of struggle with the 
physical environment or with other species and comes 
to be almost exclusively competition with its own kind. 
We call that species most successful that has made its 
own kind its worst enemy. Man enjoys this kind 
of success. 
e 
It is one of the few rules of evolution that extreme 
specialization results in eventual extinction. 
Environ- 
mental changes are inevitable, and the specialist-species 
is too strongly committed to one way of life to be able 
rapidly enough to “‘back up” genetically and take off in 
another “‘direction.”” All the evidence of comparative 
morphology and paleontology, fragmentary though it is, 
indicates that each great new group of organisms arises 
from very unspecialized species of the group “below” it, 
not from the conspicuously specialized ones. 
In order to make a perfect and beautiful machine, it is 
not requisite to know how to make it. Quite so. 
...10 Darwinians, Design emerges from blind Waste. 
“To be an Error and to be cast out is a part of God’s 
Design,” said William Blake. 
e 
The Competitive Exclusion Principle. No two organisms 
that compete in every activity can coexist indefinitely in 
the same environment. To coexist in time, organisms 
that are potentially completely competitive must be 
geographically isolated from each other. Otherwise, the 
one that is the less efficient yields to the more efficient, 
no matter how slight the difference. When two compet- 
ing organisms coexist in the same geographical region, 
close examination always shows that they are not 
complete competitors, that one of them draws ona 
resource of the environment that is not available to the 
other. The corollary of the principle is that where there is 
no geographical isolation of genetically and reproductively 
isolated populations, there must be as many ecological 
niches as there are populations. The necessary condition 
for geographical coexistence is ecological specialization. 
e 
Darwin’s life is symbolic. 
His Autobiography clearly and 
unconsciously reveals two elements that are needed to 
produce any creative genius: Irresponsibility and alienation. 
He who is to see what other men have not seen must, in a 
real sense, become alienated from the crowd. The manner 
in which this alienation occurs is subject to an infinity 
of permutations. ... 
The wealthy eccentric is a nearly extinct dodo. The man 
of wealth is now an other-directed man. 
He may become 
a lawyer or adoctor. But nota 
scientist. He is too much 
a part of the world to achieve the alienation required to 
be creative. (What millionaire today would have the nerve 
to do what Darwin did — retire to a ‘‘non-productive”’ 
life in the country to think?) 
...Wecan hardly expect a committee to acquiesce in the 
dethronement of tradition. Only an individual can do 
that, an individual who is not responsible to the mob. 
Now that the truly independent man of wealth has dis- 
appeared, now that the independence of the academic 
man is fast disappearing, where are we to find the condi- 
tions of partial alienation and irresponsibility needed 
for the highest creativity? 
A large population, which is very sensitive to selection 
pressure, is narrowly confined to an adaptive peak (Mount 
Tory). A species broken up into many separate small 
breeding populations is much less responsive to selection 
pressures; its populations will wander widely from their 
adaptive peak (Mount Risky) — some to perish, some, per- 
haps, to find the way to new adaptive peaks like Mount 
Opportunity. As before, the water represents the threat- 
ening natural selection. 
The Illustrated Origin of Species 
Darwin’s epochal tract is long, wondrous, and rather 
inaccessible. By abridging and illustrating it, the field- 
born paleontologist Leakey (son of Louis and Mary 
Leakey) does a handy service. How was one man so 
right about so much so early? Darwin’s scientific practice 
was the optimal blend of profound theory and relentless 
detail work. 
—SB 
The Illustrated 
Origin of Species 
(Abridged and Intro- 
duced by Richard 
E. Leakey) 
Charles Darwin 
1859, 1979; 240 pp. 
$25 postpaid from: 
Hill and Wang, Inc. 
19 Union Square West 
New York, NY 10003 
In plants, the down on the fruit and the colour of the 
flesh are considered by botanists of trifling importance: 
yet in the United States, cultivated smooth-skinned fruits 
suffer far more from a beetle than those with down; 
purple plums suffer far more from a certain disease than 
yellow plums; whereas another disease attacks yellow- 
fleshed peaches far more than those with other coloured 
flesh. 
In a state of nature, such differences would effec- 
tually settle which variety should succeed. 
{n looking 
at small points of difference between species which seem 
quite unimportant, it is necessary to bear in mind that, 
owing to the law of correlation, when one part varies, 
other modifications, often of the most unexpected 
nature, will ensue. 
Yr 
oe 
oe 
ro Oe > s. 
ea? 
oA 
Muscles which when 
contracted push the 
tongue out 
~ Muscles which can 
stiffen the tongue 
or move it from 
side to side 
Horny barbed up 
“tospear 
larger insects 
Hyoid bone 
| 
4 
Sheath of skin 
Muscles which pull 
the tongue in 
ba 
The woodpecker’s skeleton shows several special adapta- 
tions. The skull is particularly sturdy to withstand the 
force of the blows as it hammers with its beak; the leg 
bones are large and strong; the end of the spine curves 
downwards to enable the tail feathers to act as a prop. 
One toe of the woodpecker’s foot is reversed to give 
a stronger grip. 
e 
It is interesting to contemplate a tangled bank, clothed 
with many plants of many kinds, with birds singing on the 
bushes, with various insects flitting about, and with 
worms crawling through the damp earth, and to reflect 
that these elaborately constructed forms, so different 
from each other and dependent upon each other in so 
complex a manner, have all been produced by laws 
acting around us. These laws, taken in the largest sense, 
being Growth with Reproduction; Inheritance, which is 
almost implied by reproduction; Variability from the 
indirect and direct action of the conditions of life, and 
from use and disuse; a Ratio of Increase so high as to lead 
to a Struggle for Life, and as a consequence to Natural 
Selection, entailing Divergence of Character and the 
Extinction of less-improved forms. Thus, from the war 
of nature, from famine and death, the most exalted 
object which we are capable of conceiving, namely the 
production of the higher animals, directly follows. There 
is grandeur in this view of life, with its several powers, 
having been originally breathed by the Creator into a 
few forms or into one; and that, whilst this planet has 
gone cycling on according to the fixed law of gravity, 
from so simple a beginning endless forms most beautiful 
and most wonderful have been and are being evolved. 
Darwinian terrorists and the 
I have a friend — my boss, in fact — named 
McElwain, who is a Lamarckian. I was sitting by 
the stove with Bill and a visitor, when Bill’s dog 
Penrod walked through the kitchen. 
“How did your dog lose its tail?” the man asked. 
“Was it hit by a car, or what?” 
“No,” says Bill, “but her grandmother was.” 
“What?” says the man. 
‘“‘Are you trying to tell me 
this dog inherited the missing tail from its grand- 
mother, which was hit by a car?”’ 
“Something like that,” said Bill. He leaned back 
and took a puff on his cigar. ‘“Penrod’s grand- 
mother was hit by a car — right out here in front 
of the house — and we had to have her tail ampu- 
tated. About a year later she had puppies —” 
“_ And they were all born without tails!” 
“Just so. But, word about this got around, and on 
one night a roving band of militant Darwinians 
broke into the house, and grafted tails onto all 
the puppies.” 
“But you cut the tails back off, and so the 
acquired trait was passed on.” 
“Why would I do a thing like that?” asked 
McElwain. 
“I let the tails stay. It was no skin 
off my ass. 
“At any rate, we gave all the puppies away except 
Penrod’s mother. In due time she had puppies —” 
“And they all had tails.” 
REV Eg) rc 
“So the Darwinists were satisfied — things were 
back to normal.” 
“The Darwinians were fit to be tied: They grafted 
the tail onto Penrod’s mother. They knew that. 
Thus, Penrod and her brothers and sisters had 
inherited an acquired characteristic. They should 
have been born without tails, as their mother was 
born. Those Darwinians were in a bad situation.” 
“So what did they do?” 
“What Darwinians always do: they broke in again, 
and cut off the puppies’ tails.” 
“And that’s why Penrod doesn’t have a tail.” 
“That’s why Penrod has no tail — Darwinian 
terrorists cut it off.” 
Lamarckian puppies 
The visitor, an intelligent and well-rounded local 
physician, looked thoughtful for a while. Finally 
he asked, ‘“‘Did Penrod have puppies?” 
“She did,”’ answered Bill, much pleased. 
“Tail-less, I presume.” 
“Of course.” 
“But the Darwinists found out.” 
“They always do.” 
“So they broke in again and —”’ 
“Yeah but this time,” said Bill, “I was waiting for 
them. I mean I don’t really care about the tails, 
but I was tired of having my house broken into. 
So this time I stayed up with a shotgun, loaded 
with rock salt. And when those damned Dar- 
winians broke in here, boy, I just let them have 
it. I hit one, too — I heard her yelp.” 
bee 
“Yeah, alot of those Darwinians are women. I 
think it appeals to their mothering instincts. Any- 
way, I haven’t had any more trouble with Dar- 
winians around here — not with the dogs, or with 
my frogs, either.” 
The doctor didn’t even bother to ask about the 
frogs — there was an excited light in his eyes. 
“You know Bill,” he said, “I think I may know 
who one of those Darwinists was.” 
“Really?” said Bill, quite surprised. 
“Yes,” said the doctor. 
“I delivered a baby fora 
young woman the other day — quite a fine girl — 
one of your students, in fact.” 
“I’m not surprised,” said Bill. “Which one?” 
“TI won’t say,” said the doctor. “But I think she 
may have been the gal you hit.” 
“You saw —” 
“Yes: there I was, you know, delivering her baby 
girl, and damned if she didn’t have a tail full of 
rock salt.” 
“She did? Which one?” 
The doctor smiled. “Both of them.” = 
—Brian Donahue 
Wayland, Massachusetts 
