Whose Earth? 
by Russell Schweickart 
PHOTOS BY NASA 
P THERE YOU GO AROUND 
every hour and a half, time after time after time. 
You wake up usually in the mornings. And just 
the way that the track of your orbits go, you wake 
up over the Mideast, over North Africa. As you 
eat breakfast you look out the window as you’re 
going past and there’s the Mediterranean area, 
and Greece, and Rome, and North Africa, and 
the Sinai, the whole area. And you realize that in 
one glance that what you’re seeing is what was the 
whole history of man for years — the cradle of 
civilization. And you think of all that history 
that you can imagine, looking at that scene. 
And you go around down across North Africa and 
out over the Indian Ocean, and look up at that 
great sub-continent of India pointed down 
toward you as you go past it. And Ceylon off to 
the side, Burma, Southeast Asia, out over the 
Philippines, and up across that monstrous Pacific 
Ocean, vast body of water — you’ve never realized 
how big that is before. 
And you finally come up across the coast of 
California and look for those friendly things: 
Los Angeles, and Phoenix, and on across El Paso 
and there’s Houston, there’s home, and you look 
and sure enough there’s the Astrodome. And you 
identifv with that, you know — it’s an attachment. 
And down across New Orleans and then looking 
down to the south and there’s the whole peninsula 
of Florida laid out. And all the hundreds of hours 
you spent flying across that route, down in the 
atmosphere, all that is friendly again. And you go 
out across the Atlantic Ocean and back across Africa. 
And that identity — that you identify with Houston, 
and then you identify with Los Angeles, and 
Phoenix and New Orleans and everything. And 
the next thing you recognize in yourself, is you’re 
identifying with North Africa. You look forward 
to that, you anticipate it. And there it is. That 
whole process begins to shift of what it is you 
identify with. When you go around it in an hour 
and a half you begin to recognize that your identity 
is with that whole thing. And that makes a change. 
You look down there and you can’t imagine how 
many borders and boundaries you crossed again 
and again and again. And you don’t even see ’em. 
At that wake-up scene — the Mideast — you 
know there are hundreds of people killing each 
other over some imaginary line that you can’t 
see. From where you see it, the thing is a 
whole, and it’s so beautiful. And you wish you 
could take one from each side in hand and say, 
“Look at it from this perspective. Look at that. 
What’s important?” 
And so a little later on, your friend, again those 
same neighbors, another astronaut, the person 
next to you goes out to the Moon. And now he 
looks back and he sees the Earth not as something 
Like a long pauseless chant, astronaut Russell Schweickart 
spoke these words in the summer of ‘74 before a brainy 
group meeting on “Planetary Culture” at the spiritual 
community of Lindisfarne, Long Island. Schweickart 
himself seemed amazed at what he was saying, amazed 
at the gathering he was attending, amazed — still — at 
the events which led him to drift bodily free between 
Earth and Universe, 
This is just the conclusion of his 
tape — $6.50 for the cassette from Lindisfarne Association, 
Box 1395, Southampton, NY 11968. In 1977 Schweickart 
became Science Advisor to California Governor Jerry 
Brown. In 1979 he was appointed Chairman of the 
California Energy Commission. 
—SB 
> 
March 1969, Earth-orbit, 
Apollo 9. Schweickart, 
pilot of the Lunar Module 
“‘Spider’’, goes outside 
to get a thermal sample. 
More “‘outside”’ than 
anyone had ever been. 
With him on the mission 
were James McDivitt 
and David Scott, who 
took the photograph. 
big, where he can see the beautiful details, but 
he sees the Earth as a small thing out there. And 
now that contrast between that bright blue and 
white Christmas tree ornament and that black 
sky, that infinite universe, really comes through. 
The size of it, the significance of it — it becomes 
both things, it becomes so small and so fragile, 
and such a precious little spot in the universe, that 
you can block it out with your thumb, and you 
realize that on that small spot, that little blue 
and white thing is everything that means anything 
to you. All of history and music and poetry and 
art and war and death and birth and love, tears, 
joy, games, all of it is on that little spot out there 
that you can cover with your thumb. 
And you realize that that perspective .. 
. that 
you’ve changed, that there’s something new there. 
That relationship is no longer what it was. And 
then you look back on the time when you were 
outside on that EVA and those few moments that 
you had the time because the camera malfunc- 
tioned, that you had the time to think about 
what was happening. And you recall staring out 
there at the spectacle that went before your 
eyes. Because now you’re no longer inside some- 
thing with a window looking out at a picture, 
but now you’re out there and what you’ve got 
around your head is a goldfish bowl and there are 
no limits here. There are no frames, there are no 
boundaries. You’re really out there, over it, 
floating, going 25,000 mph, ripping through space, 
a vacuum, and there’s not 
asound. There’s a 
silence the depth of which you’ve never experienced 
before, and that silence contrasts so markedly 
with the scenery, with what you’re seeing, and 
the speed with which you know you’re going. 
That contrast, the mix of those two things, really 
comes through. 
And you think about what you’re experiencing 
and why. Do you deserve this? This fantastic 
experience? Have you earned this in some way? 
Are you separated out to be touched by God to 
have some special experience here that other men 
cannot have? You know the answer to that is No. 
There’s nothing that you’ve done that deserves 
that, that earned that. It’s not a special thing for 
you. You know very well at that moment, and it 
comes through to you so powerfully, that you’re 
the sensing element for man. 
You look down and see the surface of that globe 
that you’ve lived on all this time and you know all 
those people down there. They are like you, they 
are you, and somehow you represent them when 
you are up there — a sensing element, that point 
out on the end, and that’s a humbling feeling. 
It’s a feeling that says you have a responsibility. 
It’s not for yourself. 
The eye that doesn’t see does not do justice to the 
body. That’s why it’s there, that’s why you’re out 
there. And somehow you recognize that you’re a 
piece of this total life. You’re out on that fore- 
front and you have to bring that back, somehow. 
And that becomes a rather special responsibility. 
It tells you something about your relationship 
with this thing we call life. And so that’s a change 
that’s something new. 
> 
And when you come back, there’s a difference 
in that world now, there’s a difference in that 
relationship between you and that planet, and you 
and all those other forms of life on that planet, 
because you’ve had that kind of experience. 
It’s 
a difference, and it’s so precious. And all through 
coer 
eee 
eee 
eee 
ee 
eee 
eeeeeeseeeeeeey 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
this I’ve used the word you because it’s not me, it’s 
not Dave Scott, it’s not Dick Gordon, Pete Conrad, 
John Glenn, it’s you, it’s us, it’s we, it’s life. 
It’s 
had that experience. And it’s not just my problem 
to integrate, it’s not my challenge to integrate, 
my joy to integrate — it’s yours, it’s everybody’s! 
I guess that’s really about all I’d like to say, except 
that — and I don’t even know why, but to me it 
means a lot — I’d like to close this with a poem by 
e.e. cummings that has just become a part of me, 
somehow out of all this, and I’m not really sure how. 
He says, that 
i thank You God for most this amazing 
day; for the leaping greenly spirits of trees 
and a blue true dream of sky; and for every- 
thing which is natural which is infinite 
which is yes. 
Thank you. 
» 
The Mideast. 
‘‘You realize that in one glance what you're 
seeing was the whole history of man for years — the 
cradle of civilization 
... You look down there and you 
can’t imagine how many borders and boundaries you’ve 
crossed again and again and again. And you don’t even 
see ’em.”" 
oa 
Bacd 
te 
Photo by Russell Schweickart of David Scott standing 
out of the Apollo 
9 Command Vehicle. 
‘“‘There are no 
frames, there are no boundaries. 
You’re really out there, 
over it, floating, going 25,000 mph, ripping through 
space, a vacuum, and there’s not a sound." 
©. 
SP 
2 
© 
2 ee, 8 2) 86,0) 0, 0 00 G6) 6.816 Se 
6 6-0, Ble So 6616.68 bo 
0 are eee 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
yy 
General Washington does not like to be touched. 
Basically, every movement with any good inten- 
tions that lasts becomes either the Rotary Club or 
the Spanish Inquisition and we were so afraid of 
being the Spanish Inquisition that we don’t even 
have anyplace we can have lunch every Friday and 
tell each other how right we were about the FBI. 
