a 
4 
¥ 
es 
kee 
ee 
lel 
Ue 
oe 
ei 
CALC 
\ 
i 
CAT IO LATORS 
= 
MMI 
Ven 
TT! 
——) 
mm 
oe, my 
OL 
ii 
Ri 
bey 
et 
it Urs 
ee 
e 
by Mike Malone and Art Kleiner 
Since the great calculator price wars of 
1975, when dozens 
of small calculator manufacturers were underpriced out of 
business by Texas Instruments (T.1.) the business has been 
dominated by two American companies (T.1. and Hew- 
lett-Packard) and some new Japanese contenders (most 
notably Casio). 
In the meantime, semiconductor tech- 
nology has steadily improved. 
Thanks to better integra- 
tion, batteries, and displays, calculators are now available 
the size and thickness of a credit card, or built into a 
watch or pen, or capable of complex programming avail- 
able just twenty years ago only on computers the size 
of a small building. 
Nevertheless, the characteristics of good craftsmanship 
hold true even for pocket brains. A well-built calcu/ator 
keyboard will have keys that are firmly set in place-and 
preferably will feature a click-action to safeguard against 
multiple entry. 
The key symbols should be legible and 
set deep into the keys so they don’t wear off. 
It doesn’t 
matter how small the keys are as long as they are spaced 
properly. 
The display, whether liquid crystal (silver, with 
black numbers) or light-emitting diode (illuminated, 
usually red numbers), should be readable. 
Particularly 
with LED, twist the calculator around to make sure you 
can read the display at a comfortable viewing angle for 
you. 
The packaging should be well-sealed and sturdy. 
Finally, turn on the calculator and fill up the display with 
numbers; then multiply that number by 10. Does the 
display switch to an overflow mode with two places for 
exponents on the right? If not, you may never know 
you've gone off the display. Now divide by 0. The 
machine should tel/ you you ‘ve made an illegal operation. 
SPECIFIC MODELS 
/f you ‘re just going to calculate mileage and stuff, why 
spend a lot of money to get a calculator that will compute 
hyperbolic sine? If it’s going to be sitting around the 
house, you might want one with a little heft to it; if you 
plan to keep it in your pocket, get an u/trathin one. 
The best-liked credit card models are the Casio MOQ 12 
(about $50), and the so-called “melody card,” the Casio 
ML71 (about $45). Even though it’s the same mode/ 
with music, the 71 is cheaper because more of them 
are produced. 
For regular sized pocket four-function calculators, get 
any that’s cheap and disposable. 
Everybody's got more 
or less equivalent models: the Texas Instruments T11750 
(about $18), the Sharp SP8159 (about $16) and the 
Commodore CIL-30 (about $13) are all fine. For about 
$40, Casio offers the pocket-sized NQ11 with good human 
interface: two timers, two alarms, a watch, and a calendar. 
In higher-priced scientific and financial calculators, you 
should probably get a programmable model. Program- 
ming can make a simple but repetitious operation a 
helluva lot easier. 
If the programs are keyboard-entry 
only, keep in mind that the program you’re using will be 
lost when you turn off the machine. 
For that reason you 
might want to spend a little more and get a CMOS-chip 
based programmable — it will store a program for a year 
or so after the machine is turned off. A good program- 
Scientific Analysis on 
the Pocket Calculator 
When I’m working on an application involving really 
serious “number crunching” (any highly mathematical 
use of 
acomputer), | almost invariably consu/t Richard 
Hamming’s 1962 classic Numerical Methods for Scientists 
and Engineers (1973; $22.50 postpaid from McGraw-Hill 
Book Company, Princeton Road, Hightstown, NJ 08520), 
sometimes just for inspiration. Jon Smith has recast 
Hamming’s computer-oriented methods into forms more 
suitable for implementation on a pocket calculator and has 
included substantial material covering additional topics. 
Careful attention was paid to making the book as useful 
as possible to a wide spectrum of users — algorithms are 
designed to minimize keystrokes to reduce error and 
fatigue and are given in both algebraic and reverse polish 
notations. Most of the methods work on even the simplest 
of calculators but variations and ramifications for more 
sophisticated models are also treated. For those about 
to take on some of the heavy stuff armed only with their 
trusty calculator this well-written, well-designed book is 
a definitive ally. 
—Marc Le Brun 
[Suggested by W. James] 
HP 41C — Hewlett 
Packard's most powerful 
Personal calculator 
$99.95 
$289.95 
—Markline 
—Markline 
The TI S8C program- | 
mable calculator 
This small calculator is packed with performance — it 
does it all! Complete calculator functions PLUS ultra- 
Portable digital alarm clock with timer and calendar, 
precision stopwatch, and special melody feature. 
In 
MUSIC mode, you can play a complete scale and have 
your calculation results played back to you in music 
tones as well as displayed. Wake or sleep to your choice 
of two pre-programmed melodies. 
Set for musical tone 
on the hour to remind you of scheduled events and 
appointments. 
Verify entries with audible tones or just 
have fun “playing’”’ favorite tunes. 
$49.95 
—Markline 
mable calculator will offer the full spectrum of program- 
mer’s aids, including subroutining, lopping, flagging, and 
pausing. 
The top notch ones even /et you redefine the 
keyboard to make individual keys represent entire pro- 
grams. 
The very best programmable calculators also have 
such external (peripheral) goodies as magnetic card 
readers, devices that optically read printed code, printers, 
added memory, and even video displays. 
These can be 
built into the calculator or attached via wires. 
In programmables, Hewlett-Packard (HP) and Texas 
Instruments are the names. 
HPs are more expensive but 
better built. 
The models to look at are the HP-38C 
(about $145) and 41C (about $290), both with CMOS- 
based continuous memory. 
The HP-41C 
is the most 
powerful pocket calculator that exists. 
The Texas 
Instruments TI58C (about $705) is roughly comparable 
to the Hewlett-Packards, but less expensive. 
Programming may scare you or seem unnecessary: in that 
case, choose anon-programmable based on what functions 
you need. 
If you’re working with computers, the T| 
Programmer (about $55) is best. 
If you’re a physicist or 
mathematician, you can probably use the Commodore 
SR-1800 (about $78). For general scientific applications 
it’s hard to beat the Hewlett-Packard 32 (about $65). 
The best financial non-programmable calculator is the 
HP 37-E (about $80). A good printing calculator is the 
Sharp 1166 (about $85). 
Commodore’s calculators are usually available through 
Mr. Calculator — there are stores all over , with a mail 
order outlet at 160 East E/ Camino Real, Mountain 
View, CA 94041. 
Two good mail-order sources for the 
rest (if you can’t find them /ocally) are Markline, P.O. 
Box 1750F, Waltham, MA 02154; and Olympic Sales 
Company, P.O. Box 74545, Los Angeles, CA 90004 also 
carries a full line of other consumer-oriented electronic 
gear — electronic games, watches, toys, clocks, radios, 
phone accessories, etc. 
™ 
The Home Computer Revolution 
Video World 
There’s definitely a glut of video magazines, but this 
“Magazine of Electronic Living” serves as the best running 
scorecard on electronic gadgetry. 
That’s probably because 
it’s British; British consumers tend to get new products 
like Videotext (a television-based information system) a 
few years before we do. 
That’s OK; we get to learn from 
their mistakes. 
Video World covered the January, 1980 
Las Vegas Consumer Electronics Show (by all accounts a 
milestone of silicon decadence) with more verve and 
insight than any American publication. Also keeps up 
with the news in other foreign countries. 
—Art Kleiner 
Video World 
John Sanders, Editor 
£9.50 (about $22)/ 
year (12 issues) from: 
Galaxy Publications Ltd. 
Hermit Place 
252 Belsize Road 
London NW6 4BT 
England 
“- 
Typewriter for drunks? Rubber safety keyboard for 
astronauts? No, it’s a specially designed ‘ergonomic’ 
typewriter keyboard. Ergonomics is the science of fitting 
machines to people rather than the other way round 
which seems to be the aim of the rest of science. Called 
the ‘Maltron’, presumably after Lillian Malt, the keyboard 
trainer and designer, the machine is made by PCD Ltd 
of Farnborough. 
Key heights have been made to fit the unequal lengths of 
people's fingers so that unnatural stretches are no longer 
necessary. Keys for the middle fingers are set deeper into 
the keyboard than the keys for the shorter ones, The 
thumbs, which have been under-used all this time are 
given up to eight keys each all within easy reach. Not 
only does the keyboard also compensate for unequal 
strengths of the fingers but due to the shape of the keys 
it becomes almost impossible to strike the wrong keys. 
The limitations of the ‘Qwerty’ layout are avoided in the 
Maltron, which uses 90 percent of the letters of the 100 
most used words in English in the home row (Qwerty 
uses 44 percent). Similar ratios have been worked out 
for six other European languages. 
The high keying speed (up to 40 percent faster) makes it 
possible to take dictation directly in plain language. 
The Home Computer 
Revolution 
SP 
RATER 
AAO 
8 
Scientific Analysis on 
the Pocket Calculator 
Jon M. Smith 
1975, 1977; 445 pp. 
2nd Edition 
$16.95 postpaid form: 
John Wiley and Sons 
One Wiley Drive 
Somerset, NJ 08873 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
No other introduction book to personal computing comes 
close. 
It’s not really about specific machines, but about 
the heart and soul of this devilishly involving avocation/ 
vocation. Except for the author’s previous book, 
Computer Lib/Dream Machines (p. 536), it’s the most 
entertaining computer book around. And it’s gleefully 
low-priced. 
Ted Nelson is an artist. 
—Art Kleiner 
e 
Your computer store — you do have one, almost anywhere 
in the USA — if you don’t mind driving, that is — your 
computer store, anyway, gives advice, sells equipment, 
and helps you with repair. They also may sell prebuilts, 
possibly even prebuilt S-100 machines, assembled in the 
back room and guaranteed by themselves. There you 
can see the machines in operation, daydream with other 
customers, or get advice from the staff. 
An important function of the computer store is to 
provide free information; and an attitude of general help- 
fulness without regard to sales, with frank answers, 
appears to be a widespread norm. Naturally they will 
try to sell you the computers they prefer to sell, but in 
general the computer stores seem to be fairly straight- 
forward and honest about facts and advice. 
They have to, to establish a reputation for integrity; 
because the hobby grapevine is ferociously efficient. 
Ted Nelson 
1977; 224 pp. 
$2.50 postpaid from: 
The Distributors 
702 South Michigan 
South Bend, IN 46618 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
