se oS 
eS 
-)—lC 
re.” 
lh” 
eee 
HERE ARE FEW OF US who don’t feel a twinge 
of pain or sorrow when we pass a dead animal on 
the road. Some express their pain by sporting, “I brake 
for animals” bumper stickers. Braking for animals is 
of course a fine idea, but in most cases an animal 
traffic fatality is so sudden that neither the animal 
nor the driver knows what hit them. The blame must 
be shared by all of us who participate in this high 
speed mechanized society. Finding ways to respect- 
fully atone for these casualties is important. 
| have taken to picking up many of these animals, 
using their fur and feathers and dining on the meat if 
it is fresh. Using road kills in this manner nourishes 
my being in many ways. I can eat good organic meat, 
and my surroundings are enriched by furs and 
feathers. More importantly, this is a relatively non- 
violent way to tap into and savor another aspect of 
the spirit and wildness of the natural world. 
When skinning, gutting, and preparing an animal for 
food, one is engaged in a very ancient and honorable 
endeavor — that of providing meat. There is a certain 
completeness and dignity that can be attained by 
taking an animal through this universal age old process 
—acompleteness and dignity to the person who does 
the butchering as well as to the physical remains of 
the animal-being which would otherwise have been 
rather disharmoniously ground into the pavement. 
Recently I’ve found that others are out there doing 
the same thing and thanks to Gary Snyder, roadside 
scavenging has been transformed into poetry. 
How did a great Red-tailed Hawk 
come to lie — all stiff and dry — 
on the shoulder of 
Interstate 5? 
Her wings for dance fans 
Zac skinned a skunk with a crushed head 
washed the pelt in gas; it hangs, 
tanned, in his tent 
Fawn stew on Hallowe'en 
hit by a truck on highway forty-nine 
offer cornmeal by the mouth; 
skin it out. 
Log trucks run on fossil fuel 
| never saw a Ringtail til | found one in the road: 
case-skinned it with the toenails 
footpads, nose, and whiskers on; 
it soaks in salt and water 
sulfuric acid pickle; 
she will be a pouch for magic tools. 
The Doe was apparently shot 
lengthwise and through the side — 
shoulder and out the flank 
belly full of blood 
Can save the other shoulder maybe, 
if she didn't lie too Jong — 
Pray to their spirits. Ask them to bless us: 
our ancient sisters’ trails 
the roads were laid across and kill them: 
night-shining eyes 
The dead by the side of the road. * 
Douglas Elliot with baby opossum. He lives in Burnsville, 
North Carolina. For more road kill techniques, see 
Getting the Most from Your Game and Fish, on p. 450. 
—SB 
*“T he Dead by the Side of the Road” from Turtle Island 
by Gary Snyder, 1974 New Directions Books, 333 6th 
Ave., New York, NY 10014. 
AAA SA Adar 
HERE ARE SEVERAL THINGS that | consider 
when I’m deciding whether to take some tender 
young beastie home to dinner. The first thing | look 
for is a warm body. In the case of warm-blooded 
animals (especially in cool weather) this indicates that 
the animal was killed very recently. Another good 
indicator is the blood. 
If the blood is still somewhat 
liquid, the animal is fresh. 
| examine the eye to see 
if it is still clear and holding its form. As the time 
after death increases, the eye gets cloudy and soft, 
and after a day or so it starts to cave in. ** 
If you pick up an animal and it later gets stiff with 
rigor mortis, you can take comfort in this. Rigor 
mortis sets in a few hours after death as the muscles 
cool, and it indicates that the animal is fairly fresh. 
Of course smell is one of the best indicators. 
If an 
animal smells “ripe,” | won’t eat it. There is often 
a strong visceral smell that is associated with the 
cleaning out of the entrails from the body cavity. 
This is different from the smell of decomposition 
and with a little experience and discriminating nose 
work, the difference will come clear. *** 
Perhaps you are new to the delights of carrion eating 
and you are a little unsure of your judgment in these 
** Fred Funk, taxidermist at California Academy of 
Sciences, also cautions that all birds, except the English 
sparrow and rock dove (common pigeon), are under 
Federal protection. This means that if you pick up that 
dead bird beside the road, and a game warden sees you do 
it, you may be subject to fine. 
If he sees you. However, 
you could say that you are going to give it to a local wild- 
life museum, etc. He also warns that anything which has 
been washed up on a beach is very dubious. Chances are 
they have died from disease, and may have been dead for 
along time. Seals can give humans a severe skin irritation 
called seal finger. 
There are several things to check for in dead animals. The 
first place to begin deteriorating is the abdomen. 
If the 
animal has been killed by impact, the viscera is usually 
ruptured, which releases the digestive juices, setting in 
motion deterioration. You can tell if that has begun by 
grabbing and tugging the skin. 
If there’s any slippage, 
check further up, to determine how far the spoilage has 
gone. There is usually something that can be salvaged, 
even if only skeletal and skull. Even if the skull is crushed 
the skin is often intact, and a whole skin can be obtained. 
Things to check for in dead animals: 
1. Are there any abscesses in the muscle tissue (sores)? 
Discard this meat. 
2. Are there signs of parasites in lungs, heart, stomach, 
liver, muscle tissue? Cook this animal’s meat well. 
3. Be careful handling rodents, especially rabbits. They 
can carry such things as bubonic plague and Tularemia, 
which can be transferred to humans, 
4. Keep an eye out for the game warden. 
—Evelyn Eldridge Diaz 
*** Peter Warshall requests that even if you decide not to 
harvest the corpse you’re inspecting, you’ll do a service if 
you toss it out of the way of traffic. Numerous predators 
beside yourself are interested in the meat, and it would be 
well if they were not smooshed while dining. 
Failure to 
perform this courtesy can lead to a two-dimensional 
pavement display of the local food chain. 
56 
matters. Just what are the consequences of Sanne = 
spoiled meat? Apparently there are none if it is steri- 
lized by cooking. According to my research, “spoilage” 
is a relative, cultural term. 
It is caused primarily by 
bacteria and other organisms but these are all killed 
by the heat of thorough cooking. 
There are some basic techniques of wild meat cookery 
that you can use to turn this raw material into gourmet 
fare. 
It is regularly accepted that the quality and taste 
of an animal’s flesh is often characterized by its diet. 
Generally it is considered that vegetarian, herbivorous 
creatures have milder tasting flesh than carnivorous 
animals. Duck hunters will tell you that plankton and 
algae-feeding ducks are better eating in the dead of 
winter than in the summer when there is a higher percen- 
tage of animal life in the water. Mergansers and other 
fish eating birds are known for their strong tasting 
flesh. A traditional way of preparing an opossum is 
to keep it in a cage for a few weeks and “‘clean it out” 
with a diet of corn meal, milk, molasses and other 
delights. (It sort of reminds me of the Inca sacrifices 
of the child-kings.) To me, a mild gamy flavor pro- 
vides a taste thrill. However, like most good herbs, 
spices, and other flavorings, there is such a thing as 
too much. Moderating this gaminess is one of the 
tasks facing the aspiring wild meat chef. 
USE SEVERAL TECHNIQUES. 
First | soak the 
meat in salt water for a few hours to draw out the 
blood. Apparently this is a custom of American 
origin, because many European game recipes call for 
saving the blood and stirring it in later to make gravy. 
Then there’s marinating. This means soaking the 
meat for eight to twenty-four hours in a solution of 
vinegar (or wine), oil, herbs, and spices. Marinating 
tenderizes as well as flavors the meat. There are as 
many kinds of marinades as there are cookbooks. 
My recipe goes something like this: a cup or two of 
good vinegar, a dribble of flavorful oil (olive is great), 
two or three crushed cloves of garlic, a small sweet 
onion, a couple of crumpled bay leaves, a pinch of 
celery seed, a sprig of thyme, basil and rosemary, a 
few crushed juniper berries, and a crushed spicebush 
berry. Parboiling is a way of dissipating some of the 
flavor of the meat as well as tenderizing it. All you 
have to do is boil the meat thirty minutes at the most 
before using it in whatever recipe you decide to follow. 
As for preparing the skins, there are particular 
problems related to the various types of animals you 
might find. With mammals there are basically two 
methods of skinning — the case and the opened-skin 
method. 
(See Figs. 7 & 2.) The best blade for 
skinning is either a razor or a very sharp knife. Cut 
along the lines indicated, trying to cut just through 
the skin and not into the body cavity. This keeps the 
job cleaner. The basic method after the incisions are 
made, is to pull firmly on the hide and to use the 
blade to cut the translucent tissues that connect the 
skin to the body (Fig. 3). If the animal is bleeding and 
you are concerned about protecting the skin, sprinkle 
the bloody areas with cornmeal as an absorbent. As 
you get to the head go carefully around the ears, eyes 
and mouth. 
Your first skinning job will probably be sloppy and 
time consuming. But experience is the best teacher 
and after you’ve done a few, the rest will come much 
easier and faster. On the Eastern Shore of Maryland 
during the height of muskrat season, there is the 
Annual World Championship Muskrat Skinning Con- 
test. 
In recent years, it has been won by a trapper 
from the Louisiana bayou country. The record time 
is five muskrats in less than one minute, and the skins 
are all in good condition. | feel like I’m doing well if 
| get one done in less than half an hour. 
One handy tool for skinning out the tails of animals 
like fox and raccoon is an old umbrella rib, which is 
a narrow strip of steel shaped like a ‘‘U” in cross- 
section. This is slipped under the skin and slid down 
