‘NOMADICS- 
410 BICYCLING 
LL 
Anybody’s Bike Book 
Ah. We have here the John Muir of bicycles. Complete 
introduction, cheerful information on bike use and 
maintenance. Good advice, reasonable price; that’s nice. 
Cuthbertson on four wheels: see Anybody’s Skateboard 
Book, p. 456. 
—SB 
Anybody’s 
Bike Book 
Tom Cuthbertson 
1971, 1979; 200 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Ten Speed Press 
Box 7123 
Berkeley, CA 94707 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Before you buy a bicycle, think about what you are going 
to use it for. Then look at used bikes as well as new ones 
that will fit your need. A well-cared-for bike is one of 
this limited planet's greatest re-cycles! 
If you are going to ride over plowed fields, or on sand 
flats at low tide, or if you plan to take only short rides 
to the corner store, get a sturdy coaster-brake model, 
a balloon-tire bomber. 
Price: two to ten hours work 
at laborer's wages. 
If you plan leisurely shopping jaunts, weekend excur- 
sions up to 30 miles, or commuting for short distances, 
all on reasonably even terrain, get a 3 speed. A good light 
(25 to 35 Ibs.) 3 speed will do just what most of us want 
and need it to. Price: eight to twenty-five hours work 
at laborer’s wages. 
DeLong’s Guide to Bicycles 
and Bicycling 
Fred DeLong is a veteran of American biking. A profes- 
sional engineer, he has been technical editor of Bicycling 
magazine and The American Bicyclist and Motorcyclist, 
@ trade magazine. 
For years he has been sent products to 
test, and his book is marked by his progressive views. 
Many offbeat and unusual parts are discussed along with 
traditional ones. 
The approach is general, aimed at the 
beginning and recreational cyclist, with a generous treat- 
ment of the actual art and skill of cycling as well as a 
good section on repairs. Racing is mentioned only in 
passing. Profusely illustrated. 
—Gary Fisher and 
Charles Kelly 
DeLong’s Guide 
to Bicycles 
and Bicycling 
(The Art and Science) 
Fred DeLong 
1974, 1978; 278 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Chilton Book Company 
Sales Service Department 
Chilton Way 
Radnor, PA 19089 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Contents of Mafac kit (less tire patches): wheel-bearing 
cone wrench, pedal wrench, spare chain link, metric allen 
wrenches (for stem, derailleur, and seat bolt), three metric 
box wrenches, three tire irons (with smaller metric box 
wrench openings), socket wrench (for brake lever nut), 
spoke wrench, a screwdriver, and a seat bolt tool. 
Sutherland’s Handbook for Bicycle 
Mechanics 
The first and only book that comes to grips with the 
fact that international bicycle parts are woefully uninter- 
changeable. A complete lexicon of very technical 
If you plan to cover long distances over varied terrain, 
and if you are willing to accommodate yourself to a 
specialized riding position for the sake of vast improve- 
ment in cycling speed and responsiveness, get a 10 speed. 
Price: fifteen to two hundred hours work at laborer's 
wages, and more if you want to blow it! 
Find a bike shop that cares. They will get you hard-to- 
find parts, give you advice, and help you when this book 
can't. There are bike shops that care. They aren't neces- 
sarily the big and flashy ones — remember, it’s the people 
that count. When you find a good shop, do all your 
business there. Tell people who want new bikes to shop 
there. 
It's the least you can do in exchange for the 
small-parts hunting that a good shop will do for you. 
Cultivate a fine ear so you can hear any little complaint 
your bike makes, like grindy bearings, or kerchunking 
chain, or a slight clunking of a loose crank. You don't 
have to talk to your bike when you ride it — just learn 
to listen to it affectionately. 
Keep all bearings adjusted properly. Your bicycle has 
between 150 and 200 ball bearings. To keep them all 
rolling smoothly, you have to learn to adjust the cups 
and cones in which they run. Adjustment involves screw- 
ing the cone and cup together until they are snug on the 
ball bearings, then unscrewing the cup and cone slightly. 
The bearing should revolve smoothly, without any “play” 
or looseness between the cup and cone. 
A portable tool set that has proved ample in tens of 
thousands of miles bicycle touring is shown. 
It consists 
of a 6-inch, thin Crescent wrench, a Mafac 49 tool kit, a 
chain tool, a small pliers, a 1/8-inch screwdriver, a cotter- 
less crank socket wrench, plus a spare chain link and a 
spare rear brake and a spare derailleur cable. Every one 
of these tools has been used, including the freewheel 
remover, often in remote locations far from shops. There 
have been almost no occasions where this tool set has 
been inadequate. 
Sutherland’s Handbook 
for Bicycle Mechanics 
Howard Sutherland 
1974, 1980; 205 pp. 
SS 
| INSTANT TURNS. The spiral turn has one disadvantage 
The Custom Bicycle 
When a store-bought bicycle isn’t as good as you are, then 
it’s time to start saving your money for a custom job. 
Matching a bicycle exactly to your particular require- 
ments has become a fine art, and riding a machine made 
especially for you can be one of life’s rare moments of 
rightness. 
But what are “your requirements”? Can they 
be met? This book is a good place to find out. As you 
might expect, the authors review materials, design details, 
components, and gearing. Less expected, and most wel- 
come, they personally interview a number of the world’s 
better builders. 
There’s also a highly detailed chapter on 
|
fitting the beast to your physique. I/lustrations abound. 
/‘m sure that some of their information is controversial, 
but so what? This book combined with your experience 
should enable you to order what you need. 
(Note that 
this is not an instruction book on how to build frames.) 
—J, Baldwin 
The Custom Bicycle 
(Buying, Setting Up, and 
Riding the Quality 
Bicycle) 
Michael J. Kolin and 
Denise M. de la Rosa 
1979; 274 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
Rodale Books 
33 East Minor Street 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
EMAAR 
iE 
Rule of thumb: if the gear you have selected is too high, 
your legs will fatigue before your lungs. 
If the selected 
gear is too low, your lungs will fatigue first. 
Effective Cycling 
John Forester is one of the most politically involved 
cyclists in the country, currently president of the League 
of American Wheelmen and former president of the 
California Association of Bicycle Organizations, also the 
author of numerous engineering tracts on the dynamics 
of bicycle and auto traffic. 
His book, Effective Cycling 
belongs on every fanatic’s bookshelf, but be warned, it 
isn’t light reading. 
The book is arranged as a teaching text for a 30-hour 
course; the advantages of it are the thorough treatment of 
the subject, from traffic tips to first aid to major repairs. 
The disadvantage is the extremely dry presentation, 
reminiscent of government, and the cheap printing with 
an absence of good j/lustrations. 
—Gary Fisher and 
Charles Kelly 
Effective Cycling 
John Forester 
1975, 1979; 215 pp. 
3rd Edition 
$10 postpaid from: 
Custom Cycle Fitments 
726 Madrone Avenue 
Sunnyvale, CA 94086 
Sreenine 
LOFT 
Forces 
Mt Axium 
RIONT 
LEAN 
(IMMEDIATELY 
Ts 
specifications (what parts can be made to fit and what 
3rd Edition 
— it takes too long to prepare. Suppose a car coming 
ike 
i. 
j 
4) 
— 
7 
towards you at an intersection turns left on a collision 
eg apt as ld eter mae Te Pee ze 
$27.50 postpaid from: 
course with you. You want to whip into that cross street 
an elegantly clear format. 
This handbook is obviously 
Sutherland Bicycle 
4 
to get away. 
Here’s how. You turn your front wheel 
of no use to you unless you own a half-dozen different 
Shop Aids 
left — the wrong way, towards the car. By doing this 
bicycles, but you should bring it to the attention of your 
P.O. Box 9061 
you’ve got a good lean started, a tenth of a second or so, 
turn your front wheel right and you'll find yourself in a 
tight right turn. To make a right turn you must lean 
right, so to hurry up the leaning process you made your 
bike track to the left a few inches. Then you are leaning 
over properly and can steer a right turn. 
local bike shop, because with it they’// be able to give 
you vastly better service. Also a valuable reference book 
to carry in a “sag wagon” supporting a group of cross- 
country tourists. 
—Andrew Fluegelman 
Berkeley, CA 94709 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
