COOKING 
AML 
an 
A 
Joy of Cooking 
You really only need one book in the kitchen. 
This book. 
Along with everything (!!) else, it is the only cookbook 
with two handy red ribbons to mark your place. 
Joy of Cooking 
Irma S. Rombauer and 
Marion Rombauer Becker 
1931, 1979;915 pp. 
$1 2.95 Postpaid from: 
Bobbs-Merrill Company 
4300 West 62nd Street 
Indianapolis, IN 46268 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
[Note. There are two 
paperback versions of the 
Joy. Don’t bother with 
them. 
They are earlier 
editions, and as paper- 
backs they will not 
survive kitchen duress.] 
About Variety Meats 
Variety, we know, is the spice of life. And variety meats 
provide welcome relief from the weekly round of beef, 
pork, veal, chicken and fish. They include organ meats 
like sweetbreads, brains; lamb kidney, calf and chicken 
liver, shown from left to right in the upper row. 
Muscle 
meats like heart, tongue and tripe; and very bony- 
structured meats like oxtails and knucklebones and their 
delicious marrow centers, seen in the lower row. Time 
was when most of these tidbits were ours almost for the 
asking simply because most Americans had built-in pre- 
judices against them. But in recent years, the American 
passion for travel has developed more cosmopolitan tastes 
in food, and more of us have learned to appreciate the 
odds and ends from which European cooks prepare some 
of their most celebrated dishes. There are practical 
reasons, too, to serve these delectable oddments: with 
the exception of calf liver and sweetbreads, now in the 
higher-priced bracket, they are still gentle to a fragile 
budget; and last but not least, they contribute signifi- 
cantly to our well-being; although some of those formerly 
used, like lungs, are now outlawed. But even the muzzle 
of beef can be prepared as for tongue. 
It is essential that 
variety meats be fresh. They are highly perishable; 
use them at once. 
D 
1 
qe WW 
qm 
i 
As our friend the late Edgar Anderson pointed out in his 
stimulating book, Plants, Man and Life, primitive man 
located the only sources of caffeine known to this day: 
tea, coffee, cola, cocoa and yerba mate and 
its relatives. 
Subsequent generations have adopted social rituals and 
created special equipment to enhance the cheer and 
communicativeness that these plants release. Shown here 
is a massive Russian samovar with its charcoal pipe, the 
tea essence above, the hot water container below, and a 
few typical metal-encircled serving glasses: a strong 
cultural contrast to the Japanese teabow! and whisk 
nearby. 
Illustrated, too, is a charming porcelain coffee 
mill from Central Europe which makes a much coarser 
grind than does its tall Turkish counterpart. Rounding 
out the assembly are two examples from south of the 
border. From Mexico comes a wooden chocolate-stirrer, 
or molinillo; from South America, carved gourds for 
yerba mate. The gourd is supported on a silver stand, but 
after it has been filled with mate leaves and boiling water 
it becomes a communal cup and is passed from hand to 
hand, each guest taking a sip through the bombilla, a 
metal “straw,” finely perforated at its bulbous base to 
strain out the herbs. 
e 
About Corn Breads 
Anyone who grew up on southern corn breads hankers for 
a rich brown crust and a light but slightly gritty bite. 
We can assure you that without stone-ground cornmeal 
and a heavy, hot pan, the end product will be pale and 
lifeless. 
For a very crisp crust, grease the pan well and 
heat it in a 425° oven before filling. Whether you bake 
as muffins, sticks or bread, you may vary the corn and 
wheat proportion within a 2-cup limit, to your own taste. 
We like 1% cups cornmeal to % cup all-purpose flour. 
Try, if you like, adding a little minced onion, shredded 
cheddar cheese, cream-style corn or bits of cooked ham or 
bacon. Many southern cooks use no sugar, but for a dis- 
tinctive flavor, try dark brown sugar instead of granulated. 
When baking corn breads at high altitudes, reduce the 
baking powder or soda by one-fourth. 
But do not reduce 
soda to less than % teaspoon for each cup of buttermilk 
Or sour cream used. 
° 
In baking, round pans will give you more even browning; 
square pans tend to cause heavier browning at the corners. 
Note, too, that shiny metal baking pans deflect heat and 
that dark enamel or glass ones both catch and hold the 
heat more. Therefore, food cooked in glass or enameled 
pans needs at least a 25° reduction in the oven tempera- 
tures given in our recipes. While vitreous or dark metal 
materials may brown cookies too rapidly, they will 
ensure better browning for pies and puff pastes. 
If 
cooking fuel is scarce, a great saving can be effected by 
the use of these heat-retaining pans. 
eee re 
———EOEeeEeEeeeees 
The Art of Eating 
/f you have a curiosity about how food and cooking fit 
in with love and war, death, joy and sorrow, M.F.K. 
Fisher is the source to consu/t. More of a philosopher and 
memoirist than recipe mongerer, Fisher is the dean of 
California food writers and strikes me as a cross between 
Julia Child and Lillian Hellman. 
How to Cook a Wolf was published nearly 40 years ago 
to enable people to cope with wartime food shortages. 
Much of its advice has stood the test of time and can be 
welcomed if we want to enter a new era of limitations 
with a sense of grace. 
Vintage Books has done a great 
service by compiling five of Fisher’s books (including 
How to Cook a Wolf) of the 30’s and 40's into one thick 
$6.95 paperback entitled The Art of Eating. 
—Norman Shea 
[Suggested by Elizabeth Logan] 
The Art of Eating 
M.F.K. Fisher 
1937, 1976; 749 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid from: 
Random House 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
| have eaten a great many pigeons here and there, and | 
know that the best was one | cooked in a cheap Dutch 
oven on a one-burner gas-plate in a miserable lodging. 
The wolf was at the door, and no mistake; until | filled 
the room with the smell of hot butter and red wine, his 
pungent breath seeped through the keyhole in an almost 
visible cloud. 
Supper took about half an hour to prepare (1 could have 
done it more quickly, but there was no reason for it), and 
long before | was ready to put the little brown fuming 
bird on my one Quimper plate, and pour out my second 
glass of wine, | heard a sad sigh and then the diminishing 
click of his claws as he retreated down the hall and out 
into the foggy night. | had routed him, because of the 
impertinent recklessness of roasting a little pigeon and 
savoring it intelligently and voluptuously too. 
This is the way | cooked that innocent brown bird, and 
the way, with small variations, | have often treated other 
ones since then: 
Roast Pigeon 
1 pigeon 
1 lemon 
2 slices fat bacon (or 2 tablespoons butter or oil) 
parsley 
red wine (or cider, beer, orange juice, tomato juice, 
stock... ), about a cupful 
water 
salt, pepper 
The Fannie Farmer Cookbook 
Recently The Fannie Farmer Cookbook (The Boston 
Cooking School Cookbook) underwent a complete reno- 
vation by Marion Cunningham and Jeri Laber. The 
renovation reflects the changes in attitude towards 
cooking we have seen in the past two decades. 
Fannie 
is probably the best starting place for a beginning cook, 
From it you can Jearn the skills and procedures needed 
for nearly any cuisine. James Beard hails it as a “rebirth 
of the principles of good cooking that Miss Farmer 
established at the turn of the century.” 
—Norman Shea and Evelyn Eldridge-Diaz 
The Fannie Farmer 
Cookbook 
Revised by 
Marion Cunningham 
with Jeri Laber 
1979; 811 pp. 
12th Edition 
$14.95 postpaid from: 
Alfred A. Knopf, Inc. 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Vegetables from Fannie 
Farmer Cookbook, from 
top: garlic, mushrooms, 
scallions, asparagus, shell 
beans, broccoli, artichoke, 
and kohirabi. 
About Green Beans 
Availability: Year round, especially in spring and summer. 
What to Look For: Crisp, firm beans, with good, fresh 
color; should snap when broken. 
Uses: Hot or cold, boiled or steamed, as an appetizer, 
salad, or vegetable; add leftovers to soups or salads, or 
puree. As a vegetable accompaniment, good with just 
about everything. 
Amount: One pound serves three or four. 
Alternatives to Fresh: Frozen preferable to canned, but 
will be limp. 
Green beans were once called string beans. Today they 
are stringless; just break off the ends as you wash them. 
. 
Green beans, wax beans, and pole beans may all be 
“ty 
e 
cooked the same way, until just tender but crunchy. Try 
Wd, 
them fried whole in a beer batter for a change sometimes. 
i 
e 
\ 
|
The way tea is served in most public places — a cup of hot 
y iv
water with a tea bag alongside it — is an insult to anyone 
as 
; 
who cares about tea and should be protested because it is 
ae 
impossible to produce a decent cup that way. 
< 
4 
The important points to remember in making tea are: 
e 
The water you use should always be cold and freshly 
. 
drawn — not water that has been boiled before or has sat 
Ye 
around in a kettle. Bring it to a rolling boil and use 
immediately . 
e 
Earthenware or china pots are best. Metal is apt to 
alter the flavor ever so slightly. 
e 
Warm the teapot (mug, or cup) by pouring boiling 
water in and swirling it around, then discard. 
e 
Put 1 teaspoon of tea into the steaming pot (or a tea 
bag into the warm cup or mug) for every cup of water, 
then gently pour over the leaves water that has just come 
to arolling boil. Give a good stir, cover, and let steep 5 
minutes. 
(For the single cup or mug, use a saucer to 
cover; 3 - 4 minutes of quiet steeping should be enough; 
don‘t dunk the bag.) 
e 
Give a final stir to the pot, let the tea settle, and pour 
= through a tea strainer or not, depending on whether 
you mind a few leaves in your cup. 
e 
If the tea is too strong when you pour it out, add 
boiling water. You may find that for your own taste the 
proportion of 1 teaspoon per cup for certain strong 
blends like Irish Breakfast is too strong and that you want 
to use slightly less tea. But remember that it is easier to 
weaken tea with boiling water after it is made than to try 
to add more leaves after it has been brewed. 
e 
Serve with cream or milk, slices of lemon, and sugar 
on the side for those who want them. Always have 
available a pot of hot water. 
ae 
Melt the fat. 
[If bacon is used, cook it until crisp, and 
then remove it until time to serve it alongside, over, or 
even under the little bird.] 
See that the bird is well 
plucked, and rub her thoroughly with a cut lemon and 
the seasoning. Push the parsley into the belly. Braise 
well in the hot fat. 
Add the liquid, put on the lid quickly, and cook slowly 
for about 20 minutes, basting two or three times. 
If you 
are going to eat the bird cold, put into a covered dish so 
that it will not dry out. [And if hot, make a pretty slice 
of toast for each bird, butter it well (or spread it with a 
bit of good pate de foies for Party!), and place the bird 
upon it. Swirl about one cup of dry good wine and 2 
tablespoonfuls butter in the pan, for 4 birds, and spoon 
this over each one immediately, and serve. 
