Zen and the Art of 
Motorcycle Maintenance 
=e 
EE 
ee 
eee 
eee 
Philosophical practicality. 
Practical philosophy. 
Harsh 
realism. Lofty aspiring. With Pirsig on the motorcycle 
road with his disturbed son Chris, the apparent contra- 
dictions kick each other into robust life. A kickstart of 
a book for anyone. What the Whole Earth Catalog 
may do to your fingers Zen and the Art of Motorcycle 
Maintenance does to viscera. 
(Some recent word on lives the book makes you interested 
in. Chris, getting steadily better at the Zen Center in San 
Francisco, was killed last year by muggers. 
Robert Pirsig 
is remarried and living on a Westsail 32 ketch in England 
— sailed capably in through the famous Fastnet storm 
— and is busy writing.) 
—SB 
Zen and the Art 
of Motorcycle 
Maintenance 
(An Inquiry 
into Values) 
Robert Pirsig 
1974: 412 pp. 
$2.95 Postpaid from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, |L 60016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Care and quality are internal and external aspects of 
the same thing. 
e 
| like the word ““gumption” because it’s so homely and 
so forlorn and so out of style it looks as if it needs a 
friend and isn't likely to reject anyone who comes along. 
It’s an old Scottish word, once used a lot by pioneers, 
but which, like ‘‘kin,’’ seems to have all but dropped out 
of use. | like it also because it describes exactly what 
happens to someone who connects with Quality. He 
gets filled with gumption. 
e 
When he brought his motorcycle over | got my wrenches 
Out but then noticed that no amount of tightening would 
stop the slippage, because the ends of the collars were 
Pinched shut. 
“You're going to have to shim those out,” | said. 
“What's shim?'’ 
“It's a thin, flat strip of metal. You just slip it around 
the handlebar under the collar there and it will open up 
the collar to where you can tighten it again. You use 
shims like that to make adjustments in all kinds 
of machines.” 
“Oh,” he said. He was getting interested. ‘‘Good. 
Where do you buy them?”’ 
“I've got some right here,” | said gleefully, holding upa 
can of beer in my hand. 
He didn’t understand for a moment. Then he said, 
“What, the can?” 
“Sure,"' | said, ‘‘best shim stock in the world.” 
| thought this was pretty clever myself. Save hima 
trip 
to God knows where to get shim stock. Save him time. 
Save him money. 
But to my surprise he didn't see the cleverness of this at 
all. In fact he got noticeably haughty about the whole 
thing. Pretty soon he was dodging and filling with all 
kinds of excuses and, before | realized what his real 
pabiaa 4 
was, we had decided not to fix the handlebars 
after all. 
As far as | know those handlebars are still loose. And 
| believe now that he was actually offended at the time. 
| had had the nerve to propose repair of his new eighteen- 
hundred-dollar BMW, the pride of a half-century of 
German mechanical finesse, with a piece of old beer can! 
Re-Visioning Psychology 
What we consider the gods and goddesses of antiquity 
— those curious, lovely, and poetic myths — are truly 
the forces driving our lives — living our lives, trading off 
positions of power as need be between them. Learning 
to accept the rages of the sou! is the work; to sacrifice to, 
not choose from, the possibilities. 
A complicated justifi- 
cation for the needs of diversity but an appealing one and 
one that goes far beyond the vain methodicalness of New 
Age men and women. My appetite for this book never 
ceases because it doesn’t talk at me yet somehow reveals 
my rumors, dreams and visages to be more profound than 
/ gave credit. An affirmation of the glorious spontaneity 
in spirit. 
—Terry Lawhead 
Re-Visioning 
Psychology 
James Hillman 
1975; 266 pp. 
$15 postpaid from 
Harper and Row 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
This book is about soul-making. 
It is an attempt at a 
psychology of soul, an essay in re-visioning psychology 
from the point of view of soul. This book is therefore 
old-fashioned and radically novel because it harks back to 
the classical notions of soul and yet advances ideas that 
current psychology has not even begun to consider. 
e 
Finally, since ideas present archetypal visions, | do not 
ever truly have ideas; they have, hold, contain, govern 
me. Our wrestling with ideas is a sacred struggle, as with 
an angel; our attempts to formulate, a ritual activity to 
propitiate the angel. The emotions that ideas arouse are 
appropriate, and authentic, too, is our sense of being a 
victim of ideas, humiliated before their grand vision, our 
lifetime devotion to them, and the battles we must fight 
on their behalf. 
e 
If we look beyond Protagoras to the wider context of 
Greek culture, we see clearly that soul does not depend 
on personal life, nor do personal relationships provide 
any guarantee against psychological tragedy. The personal 
relationships in the family of Theseus, Phaedra, and 
Hippolytos, or the family of Alcestis, and even between 
Oedipus and Jocasta, are not lacking in the humanistic 
values of charity, dignity, concern, and humaneness. 
But tragedy comes, and it comes from the Gods. 
The human in this Greek view of man depends not upon 
personal relationships but on relationships with arche- 
typal powers which have their inhuman aspects. Greek 
humanism always “‘remained to some degree inhuman, 
not in the sense of barbarian, but in the sense of the 
Gods.” They provide the inhuman perspective, so that 
the acute insights of the Greeks derive from a psyche, 
and a psychology, in which divine inhumanity has its 
place. A study of man can never give a sufficient perspec- 
tive, for man is fundamentally limited; he is a frail brotos, 
thnetos, a poor mortal thing, not fully real. Gods are 
real. And these Gods are everywhere, in all aspects of 
existence, all aspects of human life. In this Greek view — 
and ‘‘Greece,”’ as we have seen, refers to the polytheistic 
imagination — there is no place, no act, no moment where 
they are not. The Gods could not absent themselves from 
existence in a Protestant theological manner; they 
were existence. 
——— 
The Act of Creation 
Koestler takes his notion of bisociation to be the root of 
humor, discovery, and art. 
| take it to be one of the 
roots of learning, subject to applications of method (on 
yourself or whomever). 
Koestler is a scientist of some reputation by now. He’s made 
contributions beyond the work of others that he’s general- 
ized from. 
This is the book that gave him the reputation. 
—SB 
OUT OF PRINT 
Macmillan 
Publishing Company 
866 Third Avenue 
New York, NY 10022 
The Act of Creation 
Arthur Koestler 
1964; 750 pp. 
They may reprint 
this soon. Write 
for information. 
e 
When two independent matrices of perception or reason- 
ing interact with each other the result (as | hope to show) 
is either a co/lision ending in laughter, or their fusion ina 
new intellectual synthesis, or their confrontation in an 
aesthetic experience. The bisociative patterns found in 
any domain of creative activity are tri-valent: that is to 
say, the same pair of matrices can produce comic, tragic, 
or intellectually challenging effects. 
® 
In the popular imagination men of science appear as 
ice-cold logicians, electronic brains mounted on dry 
sticks. But if one were shown an anthology of typical 
extracts from their letters and autobiographies with 
no names mentioned, and then asked to guess their 
profession, the likeliest answer would be: a bunch of 
poets or musicians of a rather romantically naive kind. 
e 
| have coined the term “‘bisociation”’ in order to make a 
distinction between the routine skills of thinking on a 
single “plane,” as it were, and the creative act, which, 
as | shall try to show, always operates on more than one 
plane. The former may be called single-minded, the 
latter a double-minded, transitory state of unstable 
equilibrium where the balance of both emotion and 
thought is disturbed. 
+ 
The Savage Mind 
The formidable Levi-Strauss parses the worthy logic of 
totemism — native science based on deepest familiari ty 
with fellow species and ritual celebration of mutual 
dependency. As with Hillman’s re-visioning of the value 
to the shorn modern human soul of pantheons of deities, 
Levi-Strauss gestures in detail at the dramatic life awaiting 
lost souls willing to bear totemic relation to the life 
around them. 
Poet Gary Snyder asked recently, “How can we readily 
measure if someone lives where they are? Well, we could 
ask them how many of the local plants they know by 
name. 250 would be a start.” 
The Savage Mind 
Claude Levi-Strauss 
1962, 1966; 290 pp. 
$5.50 postpaid from: 
University of 
Chicago Press 
Department PK 
5801 Ellis Avenue 
Chicago, IL 60637 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The opposite of totemism: Naturalized Man. 
Sketch by Le Brun. 
e 
A native thinker makes the penetrating comment that 
“All sacred things must have their place.’ (Fletcher) 
It could even be said that being in their place is what 
makes them sacred for if they were taken out of their 
place, even in thought, the entire order of the universe 
would be destroyed. Sacred objects therefore contribute 
to the maintenance of order in the universe by occupying 
the places allocated to them. Examined superficially 
and from the outside, the refinements of ritual can 
appear pointless. They are explicable by a concern 
for what one might call ‘‘micro-adjustment’’ — the 
concern to assign every single creature, object or feature 
to a place within a class. 
e 
Several thousand Coahuila Indians never exhausted the 
natural resources of a desert region in South California, 
in which today only a handful of white families manage 
to subsist. They lived ina land of plenty, for in this 
apparently completely barren territory, they were familiar 
with no less than sixty kinds of edible plants and twenty- 
eight others of narcotic, stimulant or medicinal properties 
(Barrows). A single Seminole informant could identify 
two hundred and fifty species and varieties of plants 
(Sturtevant). Three hundred and fifty plants known to 
the Hopi Indians and more than five hundred to the 
Navaho have been recorded. 
e 
The natives themselves are sometimes acutely aware of 
the “‘concrete’’ nature of their science and contrast it 
sharply with that of the whites: 
We know what the animals do, what are the needs of the 
beaver, the bear, the salmon, and other creatures, because 
long ago men married them and acquired this knowledge 
from their animal wives. Today the priests say we lie, 
but we know better. The white man has been only a 
short time in this country and knows very little about the 
animals; we have lived here thousands of years and were 
taught long ago by the animals themselves. The white 
man writes everything down in a book so that it will not 
be forgotten; but our ancestors married the animals, 
learned all their ways, and passed on the knowledge from 
one generation to another.’’ 
(Jenness) 
This disinterested, attentive, fond and affectionate lore 
acquired and transmitted through the attachments of 
marriage and upbringing is here described with such noble 
simplicity that it seems superfluous to conjure up the 
bizarre hypotheses suggested to philosophers by too 
theoretical a view of the development of human know- 
ledge. Nothing here calls for the intervention of a so- 
called “principle of participation” or even for a 
mysticism embedded in metaphysics which we now 
perceive only through the distorting lens of the 
established religions. 
