Safety Equipment 
Critical information (these days) 
which is very hard to find 
by Richard Nilsen 
HE BACK OF THE CAN SAYS 
“Use with adequate ventilation,” but 
you are scrunched up in the crawl space under the house gluing plastic 
pipe together. Or laying tile in the corner of a windowless ba throam 
where the exhaust fan isn’t hooked up yet. Actual working conditions 
are almost never “ideal”. 
Remedies like respirators, goggles, ear muffs and hard hats are often 
marketed mainly to factory and construction workers. 
The two manu- 
facturers whose products you see here, American Optical Corporation 
of Southbridge, Massachusetts, and Norton Company of Worcester, 
Massachusetts, are by no means the only companies making this kind 
of equipment. 
These two do have complete /ines, and offer high 
quality at competitive prices. And equally important, each is out to 
attract the growing do-it-yourself market, which means you can find 
their products at your local hardware or paint supply store. 
/f you 
strike out there, the yellow pages of a big city phone book, under 
Safety Equipment, will sometimes put you in touch with someone 
who can tell you where to go. Neither of these companies sells 
mail order. Prices are “suggested retail.” 
Norton Spray 
Paint Respi- 
rator (7531P), 
this one fitted 
with car- 
tridges and 
Pre-filters for 
Paint spray 
mists. $18.50. 
American Optical 
R5000/6000 Dual- 
Element Respirators. 
DUST MASKS 
The American Optical Dust Demon (R1050, $1.29 each) 
is a throw-away mask, but it has the great advantage of 
folding flat and sliding into your pocket when not in use. 
Weighs only .4 ounces and is for use against pneumoconi- 
osis and fibrosis-producing dusts, including — but not 
limited to — aluminum, asbestos, coal, flour, iron ore and 
free silica. 
It is also easy to talk while wearing one. AO 
has been selling quite a few to winter joggers, who use the 
them to help warm icy winter air. 
Norton’s Dust Mask (GB50, $2.85) has a replaceable 
filter element (GB001, a pack of 5 filters for $1.89). 
But before you do that, you can simply wash the filter 
in warm sudsy water, dry it out, and stick it back in. 
This mask is only for non-toxic dusts and pollen — hay- 
fever sufferers take note — and unlike the AO Dust 
Demon, does not work for pneumoconiosis-producing 
dusts. Neither companies’ dust mask will protect you 
against toxic vapors or gases, and of course neither will 
supply oxygen in a space where there is not enough, or 
protect against carbon monoxide. 
American Optical Dust Demon (R1050), $1.70. 
Norton Spray Paint Respirator (7531P), $18.50, this one 
fitted with cartridges and pre-filters for paint spray mists. 
RESPIRATORS 
Both Norton and American Optical have full lines of dual 
cartridge respirators. 
You buy one face piece (and there 
are different sizes in each line, so if you have a small 
face or a big nose, get the one that fits best), and into it 
you screw pairs of cartridges for a wide assortment of 
different toxic materials. 
You have to have the correct 
cartridges for the material you are working with; other- 
wise you will not be protected. 
For example, the 
cartridges for chlorine gas won’t work if you are spraying 
lacquer, and the ones for ammonia won’t work if you 
are spraying pesticides. 
When breathing becomes difficult, or when you start to 
smell the substance you are working with through the 
mask, the cartridges are filled up, and they should be 
discarded and new ones screwed on. No respirator 
supplies oxygen; equipment that does — with tanks, air 
hoses and masks — is not reviewed here. And none of 
them is any good against carbon monoxide gas. 
Organic vapor cartridges are for things like plastic cements 
for pipe and tile, epoxy resins, and paint. However if you 
are spraying paint, you also need a pre-filter on each 
cartridge to capture the /arger particles. 
These are held in 
place by round louvers. 
| have used my Norton respirator 
for various jobs over the years. 
It has two head straps, so 
the mask stays put and keeps a nice positive seal around 
your mouth and nose. 
Respirator with cartridges for fumes from welding, $22. 
More safety 
For further safety information see Occupational Hazards 
of Construction (p. 225) and Health Hazards for Artists 
(p. 248). 
SOFT TECHNOLOGY 
SAFETY 
AO 3 Position Ear Muff (97020), $12. 
EYE, HEARING AND HEAD PROTECTION 
The American Optical Head of the House Protection Kit 
(99510, $40) is a hard hat with attached hearing protec- 
tors and face shield. 
Also included are impact goggles. 
/deal for protection when using chainsaws, or any 
power saw. 
/f goggles bother you because they sometimes fog up, 
American Optical also makes Protective eyewear with 
side shields (91011, $8). And if you wear glasses to begin 
with, the AO Liteliner Eyeguards (9111, $2) will fit 
over your own glasses. 
They are great if you are painting, 
and also protect against minor impact from flying chips 
and particles. 
American Optical also makes an inexpensive goggle for. 
gas welding. 
It’s the Weld-View Vision (91225, $9.20). 
And for hearing protection, their three position ear muff 
(97020, $12) can be worn over the top of the head, 
around the back of the neck, or under the chin. 
= 
AO Safety Glasses with sideshields (91011), $8. 
AO Liteliner eyeguards (91111), $2. 
AO Weld-View 
Welders goggle 
(91225), $9.20. 
$40; flexible mask impact goggle with clear anti-fog lens. 
©.» )he: 6/8) Be) a; © 0) 2) ee 20)'e 000,00 
e .0 \e Tene. 
0 106 oe we 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
<A 
village is made of stories about itself. 
American Optical Head a the ioake Protection Kit (99510), 
I59 
