€ 
Harnessing the Wind for Home Energy 
When people ask me “where do | find out about wind 
energy,” | tell them to buy this modest book. Wind 
experimenters will wish for a more technical treatise, 
but for the uninitiated the book is complete, the bibliog- 
raphy respectable, and the selection of hardware typical 
of what's available. 
—J. Baldwin 
Harnessing the Wind 
for Home Energy 
Dermot McGuigan 
1978; 134 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Garden Way Publishing Co. 
Charlotte, VT 05545 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The building is diverting the wind stream from 
generator 1, but actually increases the windspeed for 
generator 2. 
——»> 
——> 
——> 
——> 
——_—> 
— + 
———> 
wee 
( EE ee 
a 
el, 
WiLL, 
Obstructions cause wind turbulence whether they are in 
front of or behind the generator, as here. The mast 
should be extended 20 - 30 feet above the trees or sited 
300 - 500 feet away from them. 
An example of the cheapest type of tower or mast —a 
telephone pole is used to support an old and heavy Jacobs 
mill.. The 70-ft. pole is tied with guy wires and hinged at 
the bottom to a concrete base. Asa result of the hinge 
the whole tower, with the Jacobs on top, may be lowered 
and raised by means of a winch for servicing. 
It is also 
good to know that should a hurricane threaten, the mill 
can “‘lie low”’ in safety. The main difficulty with wooden 
poles is that the portion left underground eventually 
rots, but with this system that need never happen. 
e 
Coulson Wind Electric 
RFD 1 Box 225 
Polk City, |A 50226 
Phone: (515) 984-6038 
Roland Coulson sells a wide range of reconditioned wind 
generators originally manufactured back in the Thirties 
and Forties, such as the Air Electric, Delco, Parris-Dunn, 
Wincharger and Windpower. .. 
. 
Coulson powers his workshop with a 1.2 kw Wincharger 
on an 80-foot tower and a 2.5 kw Windpower on a 65- 
foot tower. All the workshop equipment is run on 32 
volts DC: a lathe, valve and bench grinders, drills, air 
compressor, vacuum cleaner, radio and lights. 
e 
Elektro G.m.b.H. 
St. Gallerstrasse 27, 
Winterthur, Switzerland 
Elektro, a tiny outfit, has been quietly manufacturing 
wind generators in Switzerland for the past 36 years and 
all went well until about 1969 when suddenly everybody 
wanted to buy Elektros. Reeling under a deluge of mail 
and orders, the small workshop where Elektros are hand- 
built became hurried and cluttered. New people were 
employed who did not understand the fine art of wind- 
craft, and so quality control slipped. About the same 
‘time Elektro allowed itself to be pushed into premature 
manufacture of a 10 kw generator by an English company. 
The result was that the blades on the first batch of 10 kw 
mills broke, and Elektro’s reputation suffered badly 
as a result. 
It must be said, however, that a company expert subse- 
quently personally visted and de-bugged most of the 
faulty Elektros in Europe. Having recently met Mr. Kern 
and Mr. Schaufelberger of Elektro, I’m personally satis- 
fied that they have matters back in hand again and are 
intent upon improving their quality control. 
Vertical-axis Elektro shown powering a 
mountain rescue post in the Alps. 
f 
‘ULT TO BE ENTIRE 
= 
rational about windpower; the machines 
are so dramatic and the fact that something 
real is happening is so irrefutable. But making a 
good wind turbine powered device has proven to 
be a challenge that few can meet. Even well- 
known manufacturers sell hardware that is far 
from reliable, though one would never guess that 
from the literature. 
In fact some of the least 
worthy machines are the best known (Wincharger, 
Elektro), and are used as shining examples of “free 
power from the wind” by alargely uncritical press. 
Home-builts, though instructive, are often short on 
reliability too. The big problem is the cost of 
constructing devices that can withstand the con- 
tinuous beating of the weather: ice buildup, dust, 
rust, hail, gusts, lightning, vibration and metal 
fatigue, not to mention bullets and deliberate 
sabotage by dealers of rival makes (a problem in 
the “30s and rumored to be making a comeback). 
Lack of system reliability has been discouraging 
prospective buyers for some time now, and for 
good reason. 
Fortunately there is now a govern- 
ment sponsored test facility at Rocky Flats, 
Colorado, where manufacturers’ claims are called 
out under vicious weather conditions. 
(Test 
results are not available as this is written, but should 
be in late 1980.) My experience in the field with 
25 types of machines or so is that useful reliable 
wind-electric systems are not yet available in a 
Simplified Wind Power Systems 
for Experimenters 
Here’s a how-to-design-it book for wind machine neo- 
phy tes that looks like it’s organized logically and not too 
heavy mathematically. 
Written by an engineer accus- 
tomed to teaching inexperienced aerospace technicians, 
it relies heavily on simple graphs and example problems. 
In addition to the usual power required/power available 
calculations, it covers airfoil, mechanical, and structural 
design, the latter particularly well. Battery storage tech- 
nology and electronic controls are not treated well. 
This is not a design cook book full of plans, but rather 
a simple, graphic engineering text for those thinking 
about building their first windplant. 
—Chuck Missar 
Simplified Wind 
Power Systems 
for Experimenters 
Jack Park 
1974; 72 pp. 
$9 postpaid from: 
Jack Park 
Box 445 
Brownsville, CA 95919 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Homemade Windmills of Nebraska 
Handcarved blades tipped with stainless stee/? Ball bear- 
ings? Gears? Feathering mechanisms? Nope. A few 
boards and lots of “American Ingenuity” (for which this 
country is justly famed) make practical working machines 
that pump, saw, and in later times generate electricity. 
This paper was originally published in the 1890s and it’s 
a real eye-opener. 
Funky, yes. Down-home, for sure. 
And it may well cause more people to make working 
machines than any windpower book yet published. 
Interesting sociologically, too. 
—J. Baldwin 
Homemade Windmills 
of Nebraska 
Erwin Barbour 
1898; 78 pp. 
$3.50 postpaid from: 
Farallones Institute 
15290 Coleman Valley Rd. 
Occidental, CA 95465 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
4 
A six fan Jumbo windmill on the farm of W. W. Good- 
rich, Bethany, Nebraska, used in watering a six acre patch 
of eggplants for the Lincoln market. The fans are each 
nine feet long with arms five and one-half feet long. 
Jumbo box nine by eleven by six feet high, with door 
below for the escape of dead air. Extra well built. Axis 
of Damascus steel. Total cost, $8.00. 
a 
ta 
Ay 
pepe a 
4 ole 
a 
Satie 
Tipe 
. 
form whose performance 
can be predicted 
confidence. Most wind-electric systems do not live 
up to catalog claims. Most do not have good 
output at low wind speeds; performance-minded 
Americans apparently cannot resist boasts of high 
outputs in high winds despite the fact that there 
are few sites with high average winds in this 
country. And there has been a distressing lack of 
heavy-duty quality; many manufacturers seem to 
think automobile-grade quality will do. It won't. 
I'd say offhand that if a machine can’t run for 20 
years or more without major maintenance, then it 
probably will never pay off in net energy and 
probably won't pay off in dollars either. 
The above remarks are discouraging to someone 
who wants to put the wind to work right now. 
What to do? First is to be brutally honest about 
your needs, desires, and money matters. 
It is 
unlikely that a windmill will pay its way (except 
possibly for water pumping) if city power is already 
at the scene. 
In all but a few cases, a smal! wind- 
electric system will not pay, especially if there are 
storage batteries in the system. 
Those systems you 
read about are mostly for symbolic value; their 
owners don’t really care very much about payoff 
or net energy. 
The records of most of the highly 
publicized rigs show a very poor return on invest- 
ment as well as questionable reliability. 
If you live 
beyond city power and/or where there is a lot of 
WIND >= 
WIND -——= 
WIND 
—— = 
stator VANES 
Types of vanes used are illustrated in Figures A, B, and C. 
Design A is a bit of nostalgia, but it works. Design B is 
a great improvement, and C is the best. The reason is 
simple. You want the tail vane which is most sensitive 
and responsive to changes in wind direction. Design C 
has the highest ratio of vane span, which is the distance 
from top to bottom on the vane, to vane chord, the 
distance from leading edge to trailing edge. Such vanes 
are like glider wings which are designed to make the most 
use of light up-drafts to support these craft aloft with- 
out benefit of a motor. Practical ratios of span divided 
by chord for the vane might be between two and ten. 
In 
other words, a typical vane might be five times as tall as 
it is wide. 
The Battle-ax windmill of Mr. A.G. Tingley, Verdon, 
Nebraska, as seen sawing a thirty-inch log. Diameter of 
wheel ten feet. The wooden drum and brake is self- 
explanatory. This mill saws the wood for the family, 
and requires but little superintendence. To the left is 
seen a plan of the brake. The handle A cramps upon. 
the wooden drum B. It is a cheap, simple, and 
satisfactory device. 
