COMMUNICATIONS 
WRITING 
The Writer's Craft 
A writer (John Hersey) collecting the writings of other 
writers (Faulkner, Cummings, Conrad, Kipling, 
Solzhenitsyn, Mailer, Gorky, Ellison, etc.) on writing. 
A craft examining itself. Admirable selections. 
—SB 
The Writer’s Craft 
John Hersey, Editor 
1974; 422 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Random House, Inc. 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
| have, myself, one simple rule, which is to write it only 
when it is hot, and always stop before it cools off so | 
will have something to go back to; never to write myself 
Verbatim 
An intriguing little quarterly of correspondence, mini- 
articles, book reviews, etc. on the world of verbal 
expression. Hobbyist manic glee is rife throughout. 
—SB 
Verbatim 
Laurence Urdans, Editor 
$7 .50/year (4 issues) 
from: 
Verbatim 
P.O. Box 668 
Essex, CT 06426 
SIC! SIC! SIC! 
out. But there is somewhere, whether you realize it or 
not, there is the policeman that insists on some order, 
some unity in the work. But | would say to never force 
yourself to write anything. Once you do that you begin 
to think, ‘‘Well, | might as well force myself to write 
something and make a little money out of it.” And then 
you are sunk — you are gone, you have stopped being a 
writer. You must be an amateur writer always. 
—Faulkner 
e 
In Russian, proverbs about 7ruth are favorites. They 
persistently express the considerable, bitter, grim experi- 
ence of the people, often astonishingly: 
One Word of Truth Outweighs the World. 
On such a seemingly fantastic violation of the law of the 
conservation of mass and energy are based both my own 
activities and my appeal to the writers of the whole world. 
e 
—Solzhenitsyn 
| think that words are an around-the-world, ox-cart way 
of doing things, awkward instruments, and they will be 
laid aside eventually, probably sooner than we think. 
This is something that will happen in the space age. 
Most serious writers refuse to make themselves available 
to the things that technology is doing. 
I’ve never been 
able to understand this sort of fear. 
—Burroughs 
Mr. Eisiminger states that a green room is “the actors’ 
waiting room, painted green to soothe eyes strained by 
harsh stage lights.’’ 
While this may be so in some cases today, the origin of 
the term is unrelated to the color any such room may 
have been painted. As | learned it (though | don’t recall 
the source of the information), the room where actors 
met to discuss details of a production was originally called 
the “agreeing room.”’ This became the “ ‘greeing room” 
which became the “ ‘greein’ room” which then became 
the ‘‘green room.” 
Of the many green rooms I've been in over the years, 
none was painted green. Any green to be seen was in the 
actors’ faces, not on the walls. 
Sylvia Bursztyn 
Los Angeles, California 
Sign at a neighborhood recreation center in Hawaii: “Do 
Not Sit On Balls. Use For Intended Purposes Only.” [Sub- 
mitted by Alfred G. Hoel, University of Hawaii, Pearl City] 
A Manual of Style 
How to Write and Publish a Scientific Paper 
/t’s reassuring to know that such time-worn standardiza- 
tion exists, even if your first (and best) instinct is to 
mischievously deviate from it. Advises on setting the 
more esoteric and scholarly type (poetry, letters and 
diaries, “Citing Public Documents”), and helps you 
completely understand the mysteries of Rights and 
Permissions (requesting, granting, “Fair Use’’ common 
law, etc.) Slick glossary; good reference tool for the 
whole production crew. 
If you need to know the correct 
type style to set your favorite TV 
serial in, and much, 
much more, this is your book. 
If you wait till 1981, you can get the new 13th Edition. 
—Pam Cokeley 
A Manual of Style 
(For authors, editors 
and copywriters) 
The Editorial Staff 
of the University 
of Chicago Press 
1906, 1969; 546 pp. 
12th Edition 
$1 5 Postpaid from: 
The University of 
Chicago Press 
Department PK 
5801 South Ellis Avenue 
Chicago, |L 60637 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The chief reason for any style book, of course, is to ease 
the work of the writer, the editor, and the typesetter in 
achieving clarity and consistency within a publication. 
To say, for instance, that Congress is always spelled with 
an initial capital letter and that the titles of plays are 
Given in italics is to remove two cases from the list of 
those that must be decided on their own merits — such 
decisions to be remembered from the beginning to the 
end of the work. When style rules go beyond their 
role of achieving clarity and consistency, when they 
become Precious or merely doctrinaire, they must be 
changed or eliminated. 
- 
A surprisingly enjoyable treatise on how to meet the 
demands of one of the most demanding forms of 
communication by print, harder than a sonnet and 
more routinely failed at. The author is a managing 
editor of 25 years experience; he knows whereof he 
rejects and accepts. 
How to Write 
and Publish a 
Scientific Paper 
Robert A. Day 
1979; 160 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
Institute for Scientific 
Information (ISI) Press 
325 Chestnut Street 
Philadelphia, PA 19106 
DeBakey said it, ‘‘the contents of an article shall be 
new, true, important, and comprehensible." 
e 
While on the subject of misspellings, | recall the Professor 
of English who had the chance to make a seminal com- 
ment on this subject. A student had misspelled the word 
“burro” ina theme. 
In a marginal comment, the 
Professor wrote: “A ‘burro’ is an ass; a ‘burrow’ is a hole 
in the ground. One really should know the difference.” 
Examples of full and shortened references 
5. John P. Roche, The Quest for the Dream: The Development of Civil 
Rights and Human Relations in Modern America (New York: Macmil- 
lan Co., 1963), pp. 204-6. 
6. J. H. Hexter, “The Loom of Language and the Fabric of Impera- 
tives: The Case of I/ Principe and Utopia,’ American Historical Review 
69 (1964): 945-68. 
7. Stevens to Sumner, 26 August 1865, Charles Sumner Papers, Har- 
vard College Library, Cambridge, Mass. 
8. James Losh, The Diaries and Correspondence of James Losh, ed. 
Edward Hughes, 2 vols., Publication of the Surtees Society, vols. 171, 
172 (Durham, England: Andrews & Co. for the Society, 1962-63), 
2:200-212. 
9. Roche, Quest for the Dream, p. 175. 
10, Hexter, “‘Loom of Language,”’ p. 949. 
11. Stearns to Sumner, 28 August 1865, Sumner Papers. 
12. Losh, Diaries and Correspondence, 1: 150. 
13, Ibid., 2:175. 
14. Ibid., p. 176. [The same volume number as the preceding note.] 
15. Ibid. [The same page as the preceding note.) 
Fiction Writer’s Handbook 
People with writing pretensions, aspirations, ambitions, 
and especially talents, should read. Read the writers you 
hope to rival; read good books most of all; but read good 
books about the art you hope to master, too. 
Fiction 
Writer’s Handbook js just such a one. 
The author and her 
late husband, with whom she shares credit for authorship, 
were longtime co-editors of STORY magazine and 
teachers of fiction writing. 
They speak eloquently and 
advisedly of the work and commitment demanded of the 
writer of fiction. 
They offer (as claimed) practical advice 
for an impractical calling, and more: insight into the 
workings of good fiction, illustrated with excerpts from 
a wide array of mostly modern classics. 
Indeed, Fiction 
Writer’s Handbook js a classic in its own write. 
—Stephanie Mills 
Fiction Writer’s 
Handbook 
(Practical advice on every 
aspect of writing novels 
and short stories with 
illustrations from modern 
and past fiction writers) 
Hallie and Whit Burnett 
1975; 200 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
Barnes and Noble Books 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Jean Cocteau has said, ‘The spirit of creation is the spirit 
of contradiction. 
It is the breakthrough of appearances 
toward an unknown reality.” 
Too often young writers believe that a sensitized state of 
mind is enough for a story. That is enough for a state of 
mind, but that’s about all. Since all fiction must have 
some narrative interest, underuse of plot can be a defect. 
All editors have felt hope, in beginning a story written 
well and even arrestingly, only to find it comes to nothing 
in the end. We then send the story back, and sometimes 
on rejection slips we write, ‘Too slight."" And the author 
never seems to know what we mean! 
6, @, C10 webs 
a Rel m6 oe 6 
8 670, 2 
6 eo. ev 
we 
6.6) viele 
e 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
S@e 
The Quakers weren’t always anti-slavery. Used to 
be everybody, including the Quakers thought 
slavery was kind of naughty but would quietly 
fade away as all poor taste things should — with- 
out much effort on anyone’s part. Part of the 
compromise about slavery in the Constitution was 
the part that said that no slaves would be imported 
after 1808 which anti-slavery folks comforted 
themselves with — thinking it would all quietly 
fade away but just as importation stopped the 
cotton gin was invented and made slavery really 
profitable and owners thought of the interesting 
new concept of breeding. 
Anyway, the Quakers were like everyone else, 
waiting for the withering away of the icky when 
along came John Woolman, who thought slavery 
was very bad and not to be compromised with 
and that God’s people, notably Quakers, shouldn’t 
own slaves and he went around saying so all over, 
taking advantage of those Quaker meetings where 
you can say anything and also did jolly things like 
standing outside the meeting houses and as people 
entered busting a previously concealed bladder of 
blood in his hands saying all Quaker slaveowners 
and people who permitted slaveowners in the 
meeting were covered with blood. 
After he did stuff like this fifteen or twenty years 
and got covered with spit and hatred, Quakers 
decided that no Quakers could own slaves and all 
Quakers were abolitionists (as opposed to gradu- 
alists, which is what they’d been before). Anyone 
who got lonely being an abolitionist could become 
a Quaker or hang out with Quakers. Almost any- 
thing you read about John Woolman would con- 
vince you he wasn’t a fun person to be around — 
no small talk, all ‘The Lord’s wrath will visit the 
land which permits man to own man,” and such 
like, never a relaxed moment, but he did do the 
job as the vanguard of the vanguard, which can’t 
be relaxing. Did you know we were the second to 
the last country, next to Turkey, to have legal 
slavery, and you gotta admit that that ain’t 
entirely uncharacteristic of this land of the ironic. 
