Testing of goose down can be as simple a process as 
measuring loft in a calibrated cylinder (hopefully in a 
temperature and humidity controlled environmen t) or as 
complex a process as applying a Lorch separator to de- 
termine exact percentages of down, feather and “other” 
content. 
It is difficult to be sure that you are getting 
what is claimed unless the manufacturer has a complete 
materials testing program in-house. Numerous tests 
throughout a large sample of one company’s “700 fill 
power” down actually filled only 479 cubic inches /ounce. 
Beware of hype. 
As a consumer your best test may simply be to measure 
(using tape or ruler) and compare the actual loft of the 
product you may purchase against the maker's claims. 
Also subjectively test for recovery by stuffing the bag 
and refluffing it, comparing several bags. 
Js there any value to using down with a fill power claim 
of greater than 550 (550 is the highest fill consistently 
available as an industry standard, achieved by blending 
Chinese and European downs)? Or is it simply a high 
cost for the actual performance? As mentioned pre- 
viously, the consistency of these materials is also 
questionable. How critical to you is four to eight ounces? 
Goose down bags in general are so efficient that it would 
seem to be in only the most extreme situations that 
the payback on greater than 550 fill would materialize. 
PolarGuard 
A polyester pile with its continuous fibers 
crimped and stacked jn layers. 
It is the only polyester 
pile which is not chopped and carried by a resin or back- 
ing material. 
Thus, PG better maintains its tensile 
strength and structural stability through use. 
The thermal efficiency of PolarGuard is “quite high,” 
and its lower cost results in a lower cost for the product. 
Significantly, PG absorbs less than 1% water by weight 
and, like wool but unlike down, retains its loft when wet 
to provide (some) insulation. 
It is thus a superior insu- 
lator in areas of high humidity or much rain. Life 
expectancy and cleaning are the main problems with 
PolarGuard, as with all synthetic fills. 
Thinsulate 
Providing both lightness (compared to other 
synthetics) and loft efficiency in insulation, thinsulate 
uses millions of extremely fine polyolefin fibers (finer 
than human hair) plus supportive polyester fibers affixed 
to a backing material. 
The insulative value is approxi- 
mately twice that of PolarGuard by thickness and 1% 
times that of PG by weight, primarily as a result of the 
increased surface area of the fibers which trap and deaden 
air, retaining body heat. 
The result is that insulating 
garments can be realized with less bu/k and better fit for 
increased mobility and style. 
Thinsulate absorbs less 
than 1% water by weight, dries quickly, and retains its 
loft when wet. As yet there is no thinsulate material 
appropriate for use in sleeping bags. 3M is working on 
such a material. Thinsulate is proving to be effective in 
doing just what it claims, and several manufacturers are 
making a wide selection of styled and classic outwear 
which is indeed “‘full function.” 
HoloFill and KodoFill are both chopped polyester 
fibers which have similar insulative Properties to Polar- 
Guard but require being sewn to-a backing for stability 
(heavier weight) and have less structural stability (more 
limited lifetime). 
FABRICS 
When searching for value in a product it is important 
to compare the fabrics used and their relative 
functional qualities. 
On packs, for instance, compare the look and feel of two 
oxfords. 
Is one appropriately-heavier? /s the other better 
coated for waterproofness over time? Is a heavier weight 
cordura more or less appropriate for your needs? Do the 
manufacturers have thorough material inspection programs? 
Compare the performance requirement of the material. 
The fabric presently requiring closest examination is 
Gore-Tex, a laminate of an ultra-thin layer of teflon (and 
either one or two fabrics) which is porous to vapor and 
(usually) impermeable to liquid. 
1s Gore-Tex really advan- 
tageous for your sleeping bag shell as you will use it? 
If you have a tent to sleep in, you certainly don ‘tneed to 
spend any more money on water- and wind-repellancy 
for your sleeping bag. The value of Gore-Tex is quite 
high in some applications and nonexistent in others 
(who 
needs Gore-Tex gaiters?). 
Consider carefully the added 
cost vs. return. 
Gore-Tex used to lose much of its quality 
when soiled by dirt or perspiration, but this serious flaw 
has been mostly overcome by a revised laminate. 
(Gore- 
Tex may still leak when the fabric is stressed, such as at 
the knee in rain pants.) Also, water will always move 
through sewn seams, unless sealed, and who wants to put 
liquid plastic all over a $125 good-looking jacket? 
Personally | consistently use a Gore-Tex Windjammer 
(by North Face, a pullover with no seams over the shoul- 
der) and have been disappointed (wet) only once. 
| do 
not consider GT 
to be value-adding for sleeping bag shells 
in the vast majority of situations. 
Many manufacturer’s products differ from each other 
mainly in the type of fabric used. A brief comparison of 
similarly applied fabrics: 
Ripstop vs. Taffeta 
Taffeta has the smoother “hand” 
and a higher thread count. 
Ripstop has the highest 
strength-to-weight ratio of any nylon fabric, achieved 
via extra-strength yarns woven in at regular intervals. 
Downproofness is achieved in ripstop by “calendering,“’ 
a process of rolling the piece goods between smooth 
heated cylinders while applying a small amount of a 
special treatment. 
This also increases water repellancy. 
Beware down-leaking fabric. 
Flame retardance is achieved 
(in most cases) by the application of a thiourea-based 
compound which has proven to be non-carcinogenic. 
© 60/40 vs. 65/35 
The former is a 60% cotton (fill) with 
40% nylon (warp), has a soft feel, good water and wind 
repellancy and high abrasion strength. 
The weave has 
shown a tendency to fray and separate over time. 
The 
latter is 65% polyester and 35% cotton “intimate” blend 
(blended in the yarn itself). 
/t has highest tear strength, 
best water-repellancy of blended fabrics, best resistance 
to u/traviolet rays. 
© Oxford vs. Cordura 
Oxford has the greater weave 
strength and thus a lighter fabric (compared to cordura) 
and usually meets the need. Cordura has excellent 
abrasion resistance, is about 25% heavier for similar 
strength, and has an intriguing brushed look (a bona- 
tide marketing tailfin). Whichever is on your pack, it 
should be heavily coated for waterproofness. 
Cordura 
is harder to waterproof. For a porosity check, hold one 
layer of the fabric up to a light and compare fabrics. 
Some other important materials considerations are: 
¢* Snaps 
A “prong” snap is far superior to a “punch” 
type snap as the prongs only separate the weave when 
Passing through rather than cutting through it and locally 
weakening the fabric. 
The cross-bent prongs also give a 
more positive attachment, assuring a snap which will 
stay on for the life of the product. 
e Webbing 
/s the material the appropriate size, weight, and 
stiffness for its function? Is it adequately tacked in place 
and the fabric well reinforced? This “flat rope,” a spin- 
off of WWI! research and development, is normally of 
excellent strength, but some soft and loose material is 
around which wears and frays quite rapidly. 
¢ Zippers 
Of a// the components which come together 
into backpacking products, the highest failure point 
is in the zipper. A cheap zipper is doom. 
Tooth zippers 
provide a sure positive lock. 
The larger molded plastic 
tooth zippers are easy starting and sliding, but use them 
with caution, because a broken tooth is the end for 
that unit, and any caught fabric is likely to be torn. 
“Coil” zippers are smooth sliding, self-repairing, long- 
lived, and won‘t destroy any fabric they may catch. An 
example of a proven value-adding expense is North Face’s 
use of the German-made Optilon coil zippers in their 
down bags. For a product with a lifetime warranty the 
best zipper available is the only zipper to use. 
© Buckles, sliders, cordlocks 
Examine the very different 
hardwares on the products you compare, looking for 
simplicity of design and operation, durability, and 
performance. Can you adjust your pack with your 
mittens on? 
* Leather 
Shou/d be top grain and chromium-tanned. 
Check accessory patches for their strength, as a ripped 
patch is potentially hazardous at the worst, added weight 
at the best. 
The cost of Jeather is soaring, so a leather 
bottom on a day pack is an example of a feature which 
is losing its payback. 
CONSTRUCTION 
In the actual production of these goods they are all 
essentially hand made and thus subject to variance. 
Several companies, large and small, have reduced this 
variance to a minimum, while too many 
others allow 
poor work to slip by. 
On many (20%) of the goods | examined from one 
© Performance requirements. 
Twas 
sees) 
we) 
Le 
.6) 
0 
e010) 
6/6)'s 
016 
0 6 6 © 
NOMADICS 
company, between 6 and 40 stitches per inch were found 
(6 is a weak seam while 40 has destroyed the fabric.) 
Eight to 10 s.p.i. is what should be found on nearly every 
backpacking product — 10 to 12 for tents. 
Check. 
Measure. Some parkas from another well known 
company were found with four s.p.i., showing some 
serious flaws in their quality control. 
Consistent with 
this, this company’s packs are known to come apart 
regularly, although fortunately for the consumer they 
offer a lifetime warranty. 
Look for reinforcing layers of fabric in all stress points 
and for reinforced stitching on any stressed seam. 
Top- 
stitching, double-needle seams, back tacking and bar-, 
arrow- and X-tacking all have their place and should be 
there in order to achieve extended performance. A pack 
of good design but 100% single-needle construction will 
simply not hold together as well as one which has been 
reinforced using a heavy-duty (and expensive) cam- 
automated tacker. 
These small differences can have the 
most profound results, as any victim of an untimely 
failed seam can testify. 
In “hot cutting” of fabric a rotary shear with heated 
blade is used to individually cut every piece of fabric. 
This is done to prevent “‘ravelling” or fraying of the 
fabric. 
It does. However it is a classic example of high- 
cost low-return production technique. 
Constructing a 
stack cut fabric using proper structural seams such as 
overlock with safety stitch, double-needle lap feld, bias 
tape with stopstitch, or even a simple set stitch with 
proper topstitching accomplishes the same resu/t at a 
much lower cost. 
(The last requires care in gentle launder- 
ing, which is also a requirement for any down product.) 
The savings of stack cutting (150 - 400 ply at a time) are 
a standard in the garment industry and are in no way a 
hindrance to the longevity of any properly constructed 
product. 
In addition, if your seams should fray, most 
quality manufacturers’ warranties will cover repair or 
replacement. 
There are wiser investments than hot- 
cut products. 
FEATURES 
Design characteristics vary with performance requirements, 
manufacturers’ capabilities, and marketing strategies. 
Your own requirements should be well considered before 
shopping. 
Within the product lines available there are 
both functional overlapping and quantum differences in 
performance capabilities. 
(E.g., many 3-season modified- 
mummy down-filled sleeping bags are on the market. 
When comparing features, do you really need a down 
“collar” or a double draft flap for such 3-season use? 
Both are costly additions.) My own strategy is to look 
for the simplest design with the highest quality material 
and construction which meets projectable needs. 
It is 
as bad to “over buy” as it is to “under buy.“” Remember, 
functional quality. 
YOU AND THE PRODUCT 
Know your needs. How cold 
the nights? How heavy the load? Over what terrain? 
How diverse the situations to be met? How rugged the 
use? How much style in your garments? 
¢ Budget. Know your pocketbook. Spending limits will 
help guide you to find the most for your money. 20% 
(list) price differences for similar products from different 
manufacturers are not uncommon. 
(If more of us shop 
wisely for maximum value it just could help hold prices 
in line.) 
¢ Fit. 
Your pack should feel as though it grew out of your 
hips and shoulders and met mid-back. 
Before buying, 
fiddle with the adjustments until you are sure that that 
mode! will fit you perfectly. 
Can the loading be adjusted 
from shoulders to hips as terrain varies? Your sleeping 
bag should be neither snug nor airy. Get in it before 
buying. Compare the fit of different cuts and different 
lengths. 
Your parka should be both close-fitting and 
allow completely unrestricted mobility. 
The shoulder 
seam should fall at or just over the point of the shoulder 
(depending on how much bulk you ‘ll be wearing under- 
neath). 
The sleeves, when unfastened at the cuff and 
pulled out straight, should not rise above the wrist more 
than 1”. With your arms stretched out in front the parka 
should be tight but not strained across your back. Check 
out the pockets for ease of access. 
Continued on next page 
Oe) 6 Ue) el er epee Tehiase, ie fe lee) ‘a ee) © ele) 6) Sie .te..6. aie «+ 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
Art finally after 6 months on the job and the rest 
of us failing for years thought of a way to describe 
the Whole Earth Catalog to straight people such as 
ladies with yarn shops in Iowa: “It’s a less formal 
Consumer Reports.”” Don-said he should say, 
“Remember all those things you were paranoid 
about? That’s it.’’ 
OUTDOOR GEAR 423 
