[th be a hel one 
tn the Volley Fi 
— 4 te 95 desrees, 
That's, uh, 32 te 35 
Celsius... 
April first, 1794: the French National Assembly 
adopts the Celsius temperature scale, giving it an 
official relationship with the Metric system, though of 
course providing it with no rational one. The scale as 
adopted is an upside-down version of Andres Celsius’s 
0° boiling point of water and 100° melting point of 
ice calibration. Is the legislation’s timing an obscure 
example of Gallic humor? 
Copenhagen, 1708: A young instrument maker, 
Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit, meets with astronomer 
Ole Rémer to discuss thermometers. The century 
prior to their meeting has seen countless experiments 
with a bewildering and sometimes ludicrous variety of 
tubes, pots, gauges, ethers, and wines that have failed 
to produce a single thermometer that is both accurate 
and consistently reproducible. Rémer’s experiments 
have shown the necessity of exact calibration and the 
use of unvarying points to measure from, and Fahren- 
heit subsequently devises a method for producing a 
mercury-filled thermometer tube of constant diame- 
ter and two fixed points (originally body temperature 
and the melting point of ice, the former soon replaced 
by the boiling point of water! ), a method which is the 
basis of all thermometer fabrication today. 
His instruments win him wide acclaim and a steady 
income, allowing further and more extensive research. 
He is an artisan, not a scientist,? his shrewd good 
sense unconstrained by the dogma of his day. He dis- 
covers properties of super-cooled water, the effect of 
barometric pressure on the boiling point of water, and 
refinements in hygrometer construction. These are 
significant achievements, but perhaps no more impor- 
tant than the fundamental assumption that the Fah- 
renheit scale should have an immediately perceivable 
relation to the human physicality. To do this he had 
recorded extremes of temperature for Europe and 
bracketed the 0° to 100° section of his scale with them. 
This range is appropriate for habitable climates, and 
stands as an elegant reference point for temperatures 
outside ordinary human experience, as found in 
inhospitable times and places (the poles, deserts, 
sun, space, etc.). 
This significant 0 to 100 range, unfortunately mis- 
used in the Metric system, is best suited to high- 
definition measurements which can be conveniently 
divided by ten and which “peak” at one hundred. 
Thus we have a hundred dollars, miles, years, or 
degrees of temperature indicating significant amounts. 
Measurements requiring numerous divisors and/or 
which bear no innate relation to one hundred have 
other ranges, thus twelve inches, feet, months, eggs, 
hours, or sixteen ounces or four quarts. In general, 
arbitrary, person-made sums can be referred to 
conveniently, some of the time, by tens and hundreds, 
while interface with the world favors more fraction- 
able systems, the more simply to describe portions 
or multiples of a given value. 
The Fahrenheit scale belongs, of course, in the former 
category. It is a high-definition system of great 
humanness, immediately understandable and easily 
used, since its “metric section” relates specifically 
to humans, and not just the characteristics of water. 
Unlike the Celsius scale it is a reflection and exten- 
sion of ourselves; it does not have the effect of squeez- 
ing us into a sterile, high-tech worldview, residents of 
a minus 15 to 40 degree niche, a fraction of scale 
having little to do with our daily lives. = 
REFERENCES 
1. Dictionary of Scientific Biography, Vol. IV, p. 517. 
2. History of the Thermometer and Its Uses in Meteorology, 
W. E. Knowles, p. 66. A fine book. 
ee 
macness 
Stop Metric Madness T-shirt 
In bright rainbow colors on 100% cotton, this is the most 
remark-provoking T-shirt you can wear. 
Little old ladies 
come up and warmly agree with you. Strangers open 
conversation. 
Even the rare metric proponent is delighted 
to see this hidden issue addressed in public. 
Against 75% citizen opposition or disinterest, some 
American multi-national corporations, some government 
bureaucrats, and some educators are trying to sneak 
metric into general usage. 
(“Sneak”’ is the word used by 
an avid metricizer on the California Metric Conversion 
Council with me. She isn’t kidding. She and one cohort 
alone managed to get the California Education Depart- 
ment to require exclusive use of metric by California 
schools from kindergarten to fourth grade. Hearings 
did not support the move. 
The press did not report it. 
It’s a repeat of the New Math disaster.) 
Quietly in schools and quietly in government. Many 
federal bureaucracies now require metric specifications 
in contracts with private industry. 
The Department of 
Defense is moving toward 100% metric (when a cost- 
cutter took metric out of the MX missile specs, it saved 
$25 million). Nothing in the press on this either. 
Metric conversion has never been voted on in any nation, 
province, or community in the world. Proponents know 
POLITICS 
CORPORATIONS 
$8 postpaid from: 
Americans for 
Customary Weight 
and Measure 
47 West Street 
Penthouse 
New York, NY 10006 
Stop Metric 
Madness T-shirt 
it would lose. Except for specialized uses in scientific 
abstraction and technological micro-measure, metric is 
an inferior system to customary measure. 
This T-shirt 
is a vote. 
In a market democracy such as the U.S., metric has no 
chance to become the standard measuring system. What 
is possible however is being manipulated part way so that 
we are left hanging with an eternally confusing and 
alienating “dual system.” This is what happened in 
England, which balked half-way in, with dual direction 
hostility to match. The same is now happening in Canada. 
The former scientific proponents of metric have with- 
drawn their support. 
Good liberals are now embarrassed 
by the issue. 
You can head off the whole thing by com- 
plaining at school (British school kids, trained exclusively 
in metric, have to be re-trained to customary measure 
when they look for jobs); at any propaganda from the 
government directed at you through newspapers, radio, 
bank clocks, etc; and at gas stations, some of whom are 
trying to sell gas by the liter (worth boycotting on this 
one is Shell Oil, who is putting the pressure on the 
other companies). 
Why 
do schools and governments fall for ideas like 
metric and nuclear energy that make sense so long as you 
don’t think about them for more than 30 seconds? 
—SB 
Games Mother Never Taught You 
Learning and applying Harragan’s information is tanta- 
mount to “cracking the code” of business success. Most 
women need to approach big business as though it were 
foreign territory because until recently it was — only 
men were allowed into the policy-making ranks. Harragan 
makes a superb spy, and her book explains the jargon 
and system of the corporate world. 
Reading it, you can 
anticipate moves and plot at the same informed /evel as 
your male colleagues who usually have absorbed the basic 
strategic information as part of their upbringing. 
Harragan emphasizes the fact that corporations are 
modeled after the military and women must understand 
this model to function in any business. She also dissects 
the myth of “sleeping your way to success” and the 
myth that “good performance equals success.”” Why 
didn’t we have this book ten years ago? It would have 
saved me and my women business colleagues from re- 
inventing the wheel! Read it now, and you'll have the 
opportunity to invent a new game or at least succeed 
at the old one. 
—Anne Kent Rush 
Games Mother Never 
Taught You 
(Corporate Gamesman- 
ship for Women) 
Betty Lehan Harragan 
1977; 399 pp. 
$2.95 Postpaid from: 
Warner Books 
Book Order Department 
75 Rockefeller Plaza 
New York, NY 10019 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
While you’re at your salary research, if you discover that 
aman who held your job previously got paid more than 
you or that a man doing substantially the same work as 
you (never mind his title, the job functions are the key) 
is getting paid more, don’t go -home in fury and frustra- 
tion. Pick up the phone book, look under U.S. Govern- 
ment, Department of Labor, Wage and Hour Division. 
Call up_and ask about the simple process to file an Equal 
Pay Complaint. No one will ever find out because this 
agency, which enforces the Equal Pay Act, operates 
in secrecy and confidentiality. 
e 
Once you've slept with your boss, you've ended your 
upward mobility in that company — and the reason has 
nothing to do with sex. That particular career path is 
closed because you violated the chain-of-command 
relationship. 
I’ve even seen this happen to men who 
were close friends when the subordinate man failed to 
observe the mandated deference and distance required 
once his friend became his boss. 
e 
Everybody knows that long-time affairs between secre- 
taries and their bosses can go on without repercussions, 
always providing the woman remains in her subservient, 
noncormplaining role of the dutiful doormat. Those 
sexual relationships are possible because secretarial jobs 
have no place in the hierarchy; as Presently constituted, 
they are extraneous servant positions. A secretary has 
no upward mobility and the job is not a team position. 
eis 
aw 
See 
6.18) 
6) 
6) 
S16 
66 
69. 
60 
B © bose 
216. 
6. 
6's 
9 
Privacy — How to Protect 
What's Left of It 
A traveller’s guide to the Mystery Land out among the 
credit bureaus, government computer systems, and new 
lie detector technologies. 
This is the definitive reference 
book on potential privacy invaders and what effects they 
could have on your life. /t will either calm or confirm 
your fears; more likely both. 
The tone is a bit Nader- 
ishly self-righteous, but that’s preferable to the paranoid 
cynicism of most of its competitors. 
Each chapter ends 
with a list of what you can do to protect yourself — 
mostly raise hell, gently but relentlessly. 
—Art Kleiner 
[Suggested by Sandy Emerson] 
Privacy 
(How to Protect 
What's Left of It) 
Robert Ellis Smith 
1979; 319 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Anchor Books 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
If you suspect that your telephone is being monitored, 
make sure that you can find a motivation for someone 
to do this to you. 
Is there family disharmony? Are you 
involved in political action? Would you be perceived as 
a threat — using the broadest possible stretch of the 
imagination — by a government agency or a political 
opponent? Do you belong to an organization that 
interests the FBI, the Department of Defense, or local 
police? Would your employer suspect you of leaking 
information or cheating? 
Next, try to prove that information learned by someone 
else could have come on/y from telephone conversation 
on your telephone. One way to do this is to talk delib- 
erately about false (but believable) information on the 
telephone you suspect is being monitored. Then watch 
where the information surfaces. 
If you continue to do 
this, you may have much more fun than discovering the 
physical evidence of the surveillance. 
6) @).0 B08) etle)jau@) e'6])s: » ie, eid), 
0 en 
ele ©: ete 
4) © 
«!.6 a0 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
Multiple choices: 
1. Individual human beings think of, create, 
originate ideas. 
2. Ideas occur. Sometimes they occur where one 
person’s mind is, sometimes they happen in several 
minds at once. 
continued on next spread 
387 
