<< 
0S 
Ie 
Ae 
er eR 
LEARNING 
TEACHING 
Teaching Your 
Child at Home 
by Carol Van Strum 
Many people have asked about teaching children at home 
as an alternative to sending them to school. 
It’s a big 
order, and shouldn‘t be undertaken lightly, any more 
than having children in the first place should be. Not 
that it is so very difficult; anyone who knows something 
can teach it, and teaching reading, math, etc., is really 
no different from teaching a child to tie a shoelace. 
/t 
does, however, require time, energy and consistency, 
which are available to few parents any more, and sending 
a child off to school needn’t be sa awful a fate. 
You 
can ‘t expect miracles of schools, though; they cannot 
undo apathy toward learning that a child brings with 
him from home. 
This is a list of publications that | put 
together for people who ask about teaching at home. 
/t should also be helpful to those with children in, or 
about to be in, public school, for it’s never too late to 
add to your own life in ways that will help your children. 
As far as how one sets about formally teaching children 
at home, | can’t offer any definitive system. 
For each 
child it has been different. 
Of course they were learning 
all the time, but for two hours of the day that was the 
focus of our life. During those two hours the phone 
went unanswered, visitors were discouraged, and all 
other activities suspended. When the kids were small, 
those two hours were a time to enjoy each other’s undi- 
vided attention, reading aloud, drawing pictures and 
writing captions for them, writing letters, playing word 
and number games, learning words, simple arithmetic, 
spelling, exploring the outdoors with field guides. Before 
long | was working as hard as they just to keep up with 
them, having to review algebra and geometry, chemistry, 
etc. | learned physics, mechanics, and music right along 
with them. 
In fact, | learned more by “teaching” than 
/ ever learned in school myself. 
Their exuberance was 
infectious, and it was very exciting for me. 
The thing is, excitement about learning is infectious, 
and no matter where a child goes to school, if he lives 
in a home where people are always learning, are excited 
about discovering new things and communicating them, 
he will be, too. 
The biggest favor you can do your child 
is to keep reading, and share what you read, reading 
aloud from newspapers, books, magazines, letters, odd 
trivia from a dictionary or encyclopedia, the awful jokes 
they put in with the phone bill — anything that amuses, 
angers or astonishes you. And when a question comes up 
that you can‘t answer, look it up together — do you 
know where Iran is, what its boundaries are? Or what 
causes the northern lights? Or how fast light travels? 
Or what an X-ray is? Or what’s funny about all multiples 
of nine? If you are learning all the time, your kids will 
be, too, and any school will have a hard time undoing it. 
The following list is by no means exhaustive. Most of the 
texts | have come by fortuitously, so there are probably 
others equally good or better, but this should give an 
idea of the possibilities. We always made constant use 
of local libraries as well as state and university libraries 
for particular subjects of great interest that we couldn’t 
find at home (the state library, on separate occasions, 
filled our mailbox with books on electronics, the Loch 
Ness Monster, Irish folklore, and timber practices). 
Useful books to have around the house: 
Mathematics for Self Study, James E. Thompson, 1967. 
5 volumes, 1 each on Arithmetic, Geometry, Trigonom- 
etry, Algebra and Calculus. $5 each postpaid from 
Benjamin-Cummings Publishing Company, Addison- 
Wesley, Jacob Way, Reading, MA 01867. These are very 
useful references for teaching, or at any time, when you 
find you can’t remember how to multiply fractions 
or figure the volume of a container. 
There are interesting 
historical notes as well. Mathematical operations are 
clearly and concisely described, with examples, and 
problems for the reader to tackle on his own (the chapter 
on binary arithmetic in Volume | is a good sample for 
anyone interested in how computers operate). 
This is 
mathematics for anyone who knows how to read. 
Geometry, Harold R. Jacobs, 1974. $12 postpaid from 
W.H. Freeman and Company, 660 Market Street, San 
Francisco, CA 94104. There’s no way to describe this 
except to say it’s great fun. The first part of the book is 
a short course in logic, which kids, relentless logicians 
that they are, appreciate and immediately put to use in 
arguing with their peers and parents. Principles of 
geometry are then explored, their logical bases clearly 
explained. Illustrated throughout with cartoons, drawings, 
literary excerpts, and wonderfully loony anecdotes. 
The above math books are for parents as well as children 
(who are already reading). For teaching simple compu- 
tations — addition, subtraction, etc., most elementary 
school texts are boring and repetitive. 
You can teach 
these far more effectively yourself, and for practice, I’ve 
found dime-store Whitman workbooks to be perfectly 
adequate, so long as you stay at hand to praise correct 
work and help correct mistakes. One important thing: 
encourage the child to feel that not knowing an answer is 
not bad but on the contrary, exciting; it is the prerequi- 
site to discovering something new. 
Basic Concepts in Music, Gary M. Martin, 1966. $12.95 
Postpaid from Wadsworth Publishing Company, 10 Davis 
Drive, Belmont; CA 94001. An interesting and useful 
programmed text designed to accommodate both the 
absolute ignoramus and the person with any degree of 
musical experience. 
Covers basic components of music 
notation; notational components of rhythm and melody; 
harmonic structure of basic intervals and chords; major 
and minor scales, chords and keys; and the basic structure 
of music. 
The child who can read can progress through 
the book at his own rate; the parent with a piano or 
penny-whistle and some sheet music at his disposal can 
learn much to pass on to his children. 
Biology: An Inquiry into the Nature of Life, edited by 
Stanley Weinberg, 1974. $16.95:postpaid from Allyn 
and Bacon, Inc., 470 Atlantic Avenue, Boston, MA 02210. 
A good, basic biology text, with especially interesting 
chapters on behavior, genetics, ecology, and “‘human 
ecology.”’ Very readable, well illustrated, with good 
glossary and index. A good reference, and useful to have 
around when you can’t remember what hemoglobin does, 
or what exactly Mendel did. Lab manual available. 
Elements of Biology, Charles K. Levy, 1978. $17.95 
Postpaid from Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, 
Jacob Way, Reading, MA 01867. Another good biology 
text, organized around functions common to all living 
systems. 
It has an excellent short review of organic 
chemistry designed for the non-science college student. 
This is a well written, readable reference. 
There are also an 
instructor’s guide and a study /quide workbook available. 
Chemistry, George W. Watt, Lewis F. Hatch and J.J. 
Lagowski, 1964. $12.95 postpaid from W.W. Norton and 
Company, 500 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10036. 
A good all-round chemistry text intended “for those 
students who may take only one course in college 
chemistry.” A useful reference for most of the questions 
about chemicals that everyday life inspires. 
Alistair Cooke’s America, Alistair Cooke, 1974. $20 
postpaid from Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., 455 Hahn Road, 
Westminster, MD 21157. One man’s view of American 
history, irritating sometimes but always interesting. 
Lots of good and unusual pictures. 
One good and not often exploited source for particulars 
of history: the government — congressmen, senators, 
the Treasury Department (identification of the gentleman 
on the $2 bill, for instance), etc., for copies of the Consti- 
tution, Declaration of Independence, etc., as well as local 
and state governments and historical societies. 
Life World Library, Nature Library, and Science Library. 
Information free from Time-Life Books, 777 Duke Street, 
Alexandria, VA 22314. / wouldn’t have expected it, and 
never would have purchased these, but since someone 
donated them to us, they have competed.well with comics 
and picture books. Even the smallest kids will plunk 
down with one and pore over it endlessly, demanding 
explanations of every picture. 
Encyclopedia Brittanica (p. 496). Almost any fairly 
recent edition can be purchased used at a good price. 
Indispensible for looking up anything that comes along. 
(Do you know who King Wenceslaus was, for example?) 
Oxford Junior Encyclopedia, 1976. $200 postpaid from 
Oxford University Press, 16-00 Pollitt Drive, Fair Lawn, 
NJ 07410. “Junior” in England, maybe! This is what / 
would choose if | could have only one encyclopedia in the 
house. Arranged by subjects in 12 volumes (Mankind, 
The Universe, The Arts, etc.). Well illustrated and excel- 
lently written. 
| use the Farming and Fisheries volume 
continually; it is a complete reference for self-sufficient 
agriculture and animal husbandry. (Volumes are available 
separately or as a set, with an excellent index volume.) 
You Learn to Type, Alan C. Lloyd and Nathan Krevolin, 
1966. $9.80 postpaid from McGraw-Hill Book Company, 
Princeton Road, Hightstown, NJ 08520. A spiral-bound 
programmed course in typing, complete. 
If you know 
how to read and are willing to commit yourself to a half 
hour a day, you can learn to type by proceeding through 
this book. Kids love it, and learning to type gives them 
Carol Van Strum (in the CAT hat) wrote ‘The 
Strangest Letter We Ever Received” (p. 550). 
She taught four children at home and then 
most of the neighbor kids in a one-shack school- 
house in the Oregon hills. 
—SB 
CECELIA 
CRANE 
a great thrill. 
(Interesting: kids learn to spell better by 
learning to type.) 
(See also Constructive Playthings, p. 544.) 
Books by Geraldine Lux Flanagan: The First Nine Months 
of Life, 1962. $7.95 postpaid from Simon and Schuster, 
Attn: Order Department, 1230 Avenue of the Americas, 
New York, NY 10020. Window into an Egg, 1969. 
$6.95 postpaid from Addison-Wesley, Jacob Way, 
Reading, MA 01867. Window into a Nest, 1976. $7.95 
postpaid from Houghton-Mifflin Company, Wayside 
Road, Burlington, MA 01803. 
Three jewels, beautifully 
written, illustrated with photographs. 
The first covers 
human embryological development from conception to 
birth, including photos of fetal behavior in utero. 
The 
second is a chronology of the growth of a chick, photo- 
graphed through a “window” in the egg shell. 
The third 
shows the life of a nest of tits, from courtship to mating, 
nest-building, egg laying, etc. 
These are informative, 
accurate books, but also far more: they are celebrations 
of life, of the essential, wonderful mystery of its origins. 
Useful publications to subscribe to for kids: Natural 
History (p. 56), National Geographic World (See National 
Geographic, p. 576), Science 80 (p. 577), Cricket and 
Ranger Rick (both p. 547), and one of their favorites — 
and free, the Edmund Scientific Catalogue (p. 562). 
TEACHING READING 
For the very young child, | don’t have any particular 
method. One of the most important things | think is 
always — from toddlerhood on — to have paper and 
drawing materials on hand, lots of them. Encourage kids 
to draw, do sketches yourself (they’Il love them, no 
matter how awful/!), and write (print) captions for even 
the wildest scribbles. 
It doesn’t take long for even a very 
young child to make a connection between a picture of 
something and a written symbol (word) for it. Those 
little magnetized plastic letters are great, too, for kids to 
play with on the refrigerator, and they like to trace the 
outlines of them with colored pencils. 
The book that I’ve used most for little kids is a simple 
Doubleday workbook, Teach Me to Read, that / got at 
the dime store. 
(Also available for $2.20 postpaid from 
Doubleday and Company, 501 Franklin Avenue, Garden 
City, NY 11530.) 
/t uses rhymes to start a child right 
off with phonetic relationships, as well as introducing 
important sight words, tense and plurals. 
It is easy and 
fun, and I’ve never had a child get more than-‘halfway 
through it before tackling “‘real’’ books. 
(Not one of the 
kids here ever learned to read from any of the Dr. Seuss- 
type easy readers, although they enjoyed them immensely 
long after learning to read. 
Their “first books” have been 
unexpected choices: The Call of the Wild, The Handbook 
of Organic Gardening, The Tomten. 
. .) 
If your child needs something more structured, two of 
the best things I’ve found are the Sullivan Readers 
(Cynthia D. Buchanan, 12 volumes, $3.50 each postpaid 
from Sullivan Associates, Behavioral Research Labora- 
tories, P.O. Box 577, Palo Alto, CA 94302) and Program- 
med Reading Books (Cynthia D. Buchanan, 7 books, 
$3.50 each postpaid from McGraw-Hill Book Company, 
Princeton Road, Hightstown, NJ 08520). These are 
excellent, so long as you don’t fall into the trap of 
expecting them to do your job for you, which is to ensure 
that reading (i.e., learning) is rich and exciting enough 
that a child will tackle it as eagerly as he does a new toy. 
For the child who is truly having difficulties learning, 
whether at home or at school, | can’t recommend highly 
enough the Distar Reading, Language (speech) and Math 
programs, developed by Siegfried Englemann, University 
of Oregon, Eugene. 
(Information free from Science- 
Research Associates, 155 North Wacker Drive, Chicago, 
1L 60606.) These programs have been successful with 
many severely “educationally handicapped” children as 
well as kids with only moderate problems. 
If your child 
is in public school, you have a right to request their use. 
READING ALOUD 
You can see from the above list that | haven’t made much 
use of standard elementary school texts. 
These are 
designed for mass teaching of 30 or 50 kids ata crack, 
and may be excellent for that purpose, but do not at all 
suit the single child or several children learning from (or 
with) an attentive parent. 
My own “philosophy” 
of teaching, if | have one at all, 
is that if a child can read, and read well and enjoy it, 
there is nothing in the universe of human experience 
that he cannot have access to. By “read well” 
| mean the 
ability to comprehend and appreciate the language, in 
all its richness and variety of form and vocabulary. 
It 
