Hannelore and I had a dog we named Goethe. Goethe 
wasn’t any bristling, nasty, fanged, Kraut, killer. He 
was, rather, an anemic, wheezy, drippy-eyed poor- 
man’s puppy imitation of the Tramp that Lady loved. 
We had, on one late winter’s Saturday morning, ridden 
the bus into some Boston suburb and rescued him 
from the SPCA. (You'd better be kind to animals, so 
we don’t have to gas them in our pounds.) He got his 
name partly because Hannelore was European, trilin- 
gual, hopelessly classic, and partly because the first 
thing the pup did after we had smuggled him into our 
Cambridge apartment was to Goethe the terlet all 
over a Navaho rug. 
Hannelore worked as a librarian and translator at 
Harvard’s Museum of Comparative Zoology, where 
she learned that clean skeletons were produced by 
throwing cadavers into a room full of omnivorous 
beetles. 
I worked the graveyard shift in a twenty- 
four-hour bookstore, where I learned that I could 
keep Rodger the Smackhead in spending money by 
sleeping a few minutes each week while he filled his 
briefcase with fancy European art books, that there is 
nothing wrong with working with a gay man if you 
are a eyefucking womanwatcher (we would split the 
couples fifty-fifty), and that the doughnuts delivered 
to the cafeteria next door came two hours before 
Goethe in the 
Pea Patch 
And Other Animal Stories by J.D. Smith 
they opened. (Note to prospective all-night book- 
store owners: No literature gets sold from two a.m. 
to eight a.m. If you want the shelves restocked 
during those hours, hire a neutered speedfreak who 
desperately wants to learn the alphabet.) 
Goethe and I were afternoon regulars in Harvard 
Square. I’d roll out about two, and we would wander 
out among the tourists and the scholars, grab a snack 
and a newspaper, then find a nice chunk of sod over 
by the Radcliffe tennis courts, where I’d watch leg 
muscles while Goethe pestered picnickers, tried crab- 
grass herbal remedies on his worm problems, and shat 
on the footpaths. Ah, Freedom. When the university 
bells rang the quitting-time carols, the pup and I 
would putter back through the eye contact and pant 
legs to our house for trick time. Over the course of 
a couple of months of Goethe’s puppyhood, we 
learned how to sit up, shake hands, and an amazing 
diving act, during which I would make tight kissing 
sounds and Goethe would fling his furry self off the 
mantle above the fireplace and into my trustworthy 
arms. Eventually, Hannelore would be home from 
work to cook supper for us. 
Living the decadent-yet-misunderstood, proletarian, 
artist’s life can, even in a college community, become 
SS 
SE SS SS 
ST 
CHARLIE THE GOOSE 
(heard in Burgdorf, Idaho, July 1976) 
“A year ago last Spring, my oldest daughter’s boyfriend gave 
her a little bitty wild Canadian honker, and she raised it up on 
mush and milk out on the back porch with our three dogs. 
That goose got housebroke pretty soon, and would come up 
to the back door just like the dogs, and he’d peck on it, and 
we'd let him in, and he’d beg food from the table, and it even 
got to the point where when my daughter was loading the 
dogs in the back of the pickup she’d just call “Charlie, 
Charlie,” and that blamed goose would fly right up in the 
back of the truck and ride there, like a dog. 
“Well, we worried ol’ Charlie through hunting season that 
Fall, and kept him warm by the fire all Winter, then this 
Spring he started being gone overnight and the first time we 
figured out what he was up to was when one of our neighbors 
called up and said that our goose was down there bothering 
his dogs, and keeping folks awake all night. We figured he 
was trying to mate with a dog since he probably had never 
seen another goose. 
“Finally he was gone for a couple of weeks and we started 
believing he’d flown up to Canada or somewhere, when my 
daughter was driving about fifteen miles from our place, 
and saw a wild goose out in back of this old fellow’s place, 
and stopped and it turned out to be Charlie with his wings 
clipped. She and the old man 
had quite an argument about 
~ 
whose goose it was, but she 
eventually proved to him that 
the goose would follow her any- 
where she would go, so she 
helped him up in the back of 
the truck and brought him 
home and put him out on the 
porch with the dogs, and, you 
know, believe it or not, we got 
up the next morning and our 
own dogs had eaten that goose. 
Musta had something to do with 
his wings being clipped.” 
oS 
BLSYLER 
—~ 
 _ 
sn 
HOW TO FIX A DOG RACE 
My Grandpa Frary took a dogfever pilgrimage fromm Colorado 
to Florida to learn how greyhounds are trained to run. He 
found out that many trainers work the dogs in low pens with 
live rabbits. Real rabbits rarely run in perfect halfmile ovals 
like their mechanical cousins at the track do. Real rabbits 
dart and weave and slow down just a little before they change 
directions. The dogs sense the move coming and break their 
own strides to make the turn with the real rabbits. At the 
track the mechanical rabbit runs on a rheostat setup, so that 
the person who is controlling the speed of the track bunny 
can slow it down at just the right time, the lead dogs think 
the rabbit is going to take a ninety degree turn, break their 
stride a little, and the hind dogs catch up. This knowledge 
didn’t keep my Grandpa from betting on the dogs. 
COONDOG MEMORY 
(heard in Rutledge, Missouri, about ten years ago) 
“Now, this dog is for sale, and she can not only follow a trail 
twice as old as the average dog can, but she’s got a pretty 
good memory to boot. For instance, last week this old boy 
who lives down the road from me, and is forever stinkmouth- 
ing my hounds, brought some city fellow around to try out 
ol’ Sis here. So I turned her out south of the house and she 
made two or three big swings back and forth across the edge 
of the woods, set back her head, bayed a couple of times, 
cut straight through the woods, come to a little clearing, 
jumped about three foot straight up in the air, run to the 
other side, and commenced to letting out a racket like she 
had something treed. We went over there with our flash- 
lights and shone them up in the tree but couldn’t catch no 
shine off a coon’s eyes, and my neighbor sorta indicated that 
ol’ Sis might be a little crazy, cause she stood right to the 
tree and kept singing up into it. So I pulled off my coat and 
climbed up into the branches, and, sure enough, there was 
a coon skeleton wedged in between a couple of branches 
about twenty foot up. Now as I was saying, she can follow 
a pretty old trail, but this fellow was still calling her crazy 
or touched ’cause she had hopped up in the air while she 
was crossing the clearing, until I reminded him that the 
Hawkins’ had a fence across there about five years back. 
Now, this dog is for sale.” 
SS 
SE S| 
ES SS 
MOUSE DISCOUNT 
(heard in Burgdorf, Idaho, 1974) 
“J was the manager of the Penney’s store in Nampa for a few 
years. One year business got a little slow, so I took a piece 
of plywood, drilled about fifty inch-and-a-half 
holes in it, 
randomly numbered them either ten, twenty, thirty, or forty 
percent, nailed mason jar rings to the bottoms, and screwed 
pint jars into them. The idea was that when a person had 
something figured out that he wanted to buy, he’d bring it 
to the mouse board, and I’d let out this little mouse and 
whatever hole the mouse would run down, that is how much 
discount the person would get. Now the trick is this: 
a 
mouse won’t go into a hole where no mouse has ever been, 
so by taking a few mouse turds and dropping them down 
the ten percent holes, and say one turd down one of the 
forty percent holes, I could provide a little excitement for 
the customers, and a little for myself, as long as I only 
marked up the goods fifteen or twenty percent.” 
DAVID 
WILLS 
PEA 
Ore 
20) 
6/581 
619 
18 
\:a 
0) 
peje, 
66) 
s\.9) 
© 
<6: 
8 0 06 
6) 
6. 
bi 
0 66 
8: 
4) 
6 
6) 
6. 
¥).6; 
8.6) 
6 0 
0.8 
6 0 6 6 Oe 
oo 
8 
COMMUNITY 
ANIMAL STORIES 353 
a wretched energy sink. Hannelore gradually seemed 
to be picking only the “loves-me-not” petals from 
my activities. I began to wonder why I hadn’t stayed 
back home and become a railroader. Hannelore 
pricked herself with pins and bled on the bathtub to 
scare me. I kicked the guts out of our television set. 
Our eyes found the alarm clock each night after 
supper. We both became flagrant masturbators. I 
blamed our mess on city living. She blamed Amerika. 
Finally we decided to move a little farther out of the 
bustle, to a place with a yard, for Goethe’s sake. 
In acouple of weeks we had rented a bright, windowed, 
third-floor flat, overlooking a good, green, fenced yard, 
with little garden plots all around the edge of the 
house. It was a full moist spring. Goethe loved his 
yard. I stole a bicycle for Hannelore to ride to work. 
She brought bright curtains home from the museum. 
Our neighbors were friendly, intelligent, older, almost 
sane. Things were looking up for us. I began to learn 
music. She began to translate Creeley and Olson into 
German and French. I tried to remember how my 
folks’ gardens looked, read books on vegiculture, 
bought a shovel and some seeds. Goethe began to 
learn deportment from a spayed golden retriever. 
Well, like my Grandad used to say, “You can’t stick 
your foot into the same shoe twice.” I began to 
spade up the plot, hauling gook from the edge of the 
Charles river and working it into the sandy fill along 
the house. The mailman took to getting barked at 
\ 
by Goethe and the retriever, but not with total joy, 
i 
so on this sunny, soily day, I had left my pup up- 
stairs in the apartment, with the windows open so 
‘ 
he could watch my farming. I had just powdered 
up what was to be the pea patch, when, with what 
must have been Henny Penny’s basic awareness, I 
looked up to see Goethe halfway between the third 
floor window and me, front legs extended, expecting 
me to catch him. He broke his neck right beside me. 
I hadn’t had time to let go of the shovel, so it didn’t 
take long to bury him. Never had the heart to plant 
anything else there. Not long afterward, Hannelore 
and I went our separate ways. 
® 
ee 
ee 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
continued from last spread 
* Anyway, for a while there was a bell outside my 
room and a long bell rope hanging over the stair- 
well into the downstairs, which my family would 
pull if they wanted me. It was useful, because 
though my parents’ current house shocked me by 
being one of those one-floor plans where hiding 
from company means you can’t pee or talk, this 
was a 150-year-old, two-story, internal brick wall 
yell producer, and I was always reading or trying 
to figure out the truth about the truth and God 
(really, and to think I could’ve been masturbating, 
although, on the other hand, there were two doors 
into my bedroom from two different locales and 
although my family was pretty good about knock- 
ing, two doors, though certainly not causative of 
a jumpy 
personality, cannot be said to be a cure). 
Also, the bell was good to impress, entertain, or 
weird out visitors. “‘Wanna see the church bell?” 
and they’d say yeah, but they never expected it 
to really be a church bell, or so loud, or for my 
father to ring it so long. And when my parents 
were counselors at a tent camp with fairly-scat- 
tered tents it was a good way to call the campers 
for things, and another privilege to dole out (no. 
bell ringing without permission was a necessary 
rule). 
continued on next spread 
