| 
' 
; 
ry 
\ 
y 
i 
COMMUNITY 
CLOTHING 
Good Garb 
A well-researched, consumer-oriented book dealing with 
selecting and caring for practical clothing. 
The authors 
focus on all aspects of durable clothing from underwear 
to shoes. 
The book includes a chapter on what to wear 
when it’s really hot and how to keep warm in cold 
weather — and why. Also includes information on how 
to buy good down-filled and other insulated garments 
and how to care fot them once you do. Complete 
information on mail-order sources and even some 
addresses of firms that will accept your dirty sleeping bag 
or down jacket for cleaning by mail if your local cleaner 
won't do it. (At Next Catalog press time we did not have 
@ printed copy of the book, so we can’t show its 
copious illustrations.) 
—Marilyn Green 
Good Garb 
4 
$8.95 Postpaid from: 
(A practical guide to 
Dell Publishing Company 
practical clothing) 
One Dag Hammarskjold Plaza 
William Dasheff and 
245 East 47th Street 
es = 
New York, NY 10017 
; 
PP- 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
To a large extent, the really high quality functional 
clothing exists in a realm off the beaten trail. For the 
most part, you just can’t walk into a department store or 
shopping mall and start buying the kinds of clothes 
presented in this book. Small specialty shops here and 
there may carry some items but the main source is mail- 
order catalogs. 
e 
The C.C. Filson Company has been delivering top quality 
clothing since 1897. Garments manufactured thirty or 
forty years ago are practically identical to those,being 
made today. Filson has had many imitators but no one, 
as far as we know, has ever matched the quality and 
outstanding value that Filson steadfastly delivers. 
° 
For mass-manufactured utility footwear, Chippewa is 
just about the best you'll find. Workmanship and mater- 
ials are first-rate. Selected models are available from 
Todd's or contact: Chippewa Shoe Company, Chippewa 
Falls, Wisconsin 54729, (715) 723-1012 for the name of 
a dealer near you. 
3 
In terms of practicality, members of the American 
Armed Forces have been among the best-dressed people 
in our society. 
@ 
One of the most telling signs about a garment is the 
finish work. After all, all garments, from the worst to 
the best, basically consist of just a few simple seams. 
The cost of the material itself, with a few exceptions, 
is relatively small. The main cost and the part that is 
most time-consuming is the finish work. How well 
Filson outdoor clothes 
Cars are tinny, silverware is stainless steel, and fiber- 
board boxes are palmed off as houses. Contemporary 
economics seem designed to diminish standards of excel- 
lence. Even the durability and construction of clothing 
has deteriorated: ‘Levi's will not stand four months of 
normal work; “Can‘t-bust-ems” have disappeared, and 
except for Ben Davis’ polyester gorillas, there’s hardly a 
tough, trim line of clothing available at all, especially 
in natural fibers. 
Hardly, but the C.C. Filson Co. of Seattle is an excep- 
tional line of clothing and outerwear for loggers, game 
wardens and outdoor workers. 
Filson is to work clothes 
_ 
Women’s Mackinaw Cruiser 
“Equal Protection for Outdoor Women” 
A companion jacket to the men’s model Lot No. 110 
including the double back feature. Superbly tailored in 
classic lines that combine roomy comfort with flattering 
style and drape. Cut from women’s patterns. Double 
L.L. Bean 
The Bean catalog was the model for the Whole Earth 
Catalog. Mr. Bean had a directness and integrity that still 
shows in the catalog, the products, and the service. 
Though the catalog carries a range of outdoor equipment, 
it’s real forte is durable, practical clothing. I’ma hat 
shopper; | notice that 3 of my 4 main hats — the knit 
watch cap, the adjustable baseball cap, and the flaps-that- 
tie-down-over-the-otherwise-frozen-ears brim cap — are 
all from L.L. Bean. 
—SB 
° 
ee 
Bean's Blue Rock Sweater 
paste 
Body and sleeves are herringbone knit in a vertically 
1G ent ae 
striped pattern of blue and light gray. Collar, cuffs, and 
waistband are rib-knit in solid light gray. Blended 3-ply 
yarns of 85% wool and 15% nylon make hard wearing, 
medium weight outdoors sweater. 
Weight about 16 oz. Hand wash or dry clean. 
One pattern, Light Gray with Blue stripes. 
Men'’s sizes: Sm. (36 - 38), Med. (39 - 41), Lg. (42 - 44), 
e 
XLg. (45 
- 47). 
Watch Cap 
1766C Blue Rock Sweater, $21.50 postpaid. 
Traditionally worn by merchant seamen, the Watch Cap is 
a handy item for outdoorsmen in cold weather. Tightly 
knit of 100% virgin wool yarns for extra stretch and 
Freeport, ME 04032 
@ 
warmth. 
Cuff is doubled and pulls down over forehead, 
: 
ears and neck. 
ae Double Seated 
Weight 4 oz. 
One size fits all. Color, Navy. 
1241C Watch Cap, $4.50 postpaid. 
Originally used by iron 
workers and adopted by 
Yvon Chouinard as highly 
functional rock climbing 
pants. For outdoors use 
where a tough, comfortable, 
non-binding pant is required. 
Made of 12 oz. polyester- 
cotton duck, double stitched 
and bartacked at all points 
of stress with polyester 
wrapped cotton thread for 
extra strength. Deep front 
pockets. Roomy double 
seat forms two large rear 
pockets secured at top by 
velcro. Double layered 
front provides for long wear 
and will not bind. Machine 
washable and dryable. 
Color, Straw. Weight 21 oz. 
Men's even waist sizes 28 to 
38 (state finished inseam 
length desired). 
1821E Chouinard Double 
Seated Trail Pants, 
$25.50 postpaid. 
are the buttonholes made and the buttons sewn on; is 
the stitching small, neat and even, with no skipped 
stitches and no puckering of the fabric; are the seam 
edges cleanly finished; have stress points been reinforced 
with bar tacks of good quality? 
Oiled wool is more water-repellent than regular wool 
which has had most of its natural lanolin removed. Oiled 
wool garments should never be dry cleaned as this will 
remove all the oil. Gently hand wash as you would any 
fine wool sweater. 
e 
Howard Geiger was the man who made, among other 
superb leather flight clothing, the famous G-1 goatskin 
flight jacket for the Navy's pilots during World War II. 
While he has long since ceased making them for the Navy, 
he continues to produce the finest version of the G-1 
available in the United States and most probably in the 
world. 
It is without doubt the best of its kind. 
Available from Dennis Connor, Dunhams of Maine and 
OMS or contact: Willis and Geiger, 45 W. 36th Street, 
New York, NY 10018. 
what White is to workboots. 
Their all-wool shipcords at 
$59 a pair will survive four or five Levi’s at $25 a pair. 
Filson canvas or “tin” pants and coats are waterproof and 
extremely resistant to wear. 
The top of the line is the Filson “Cruiser,” an all-wool, 
water-repellant coat with nine pockets, in a rich forest 
green. 
It is tough enough for the woods but elegant 
enough for town — warm as a toaster and handsome as 
a Douglas Fir. 
The company responds promptly to requests for their 
free catalog. 
—Peter Coyote 
Filson outdoor clothes 
Catalog 
free from: 
C.C. Filson Company 
205 Maritime Building 
Seattle, WA 98104 
lower pockets combine a utility pocket and hand warmer 
pocket with side opening. Double upper left front pocket. 
Button front closure with snap fasteners on all pocket flaps. 
Colors: Plaids; Red/Black 
Solids; Forest Green, Navy Blue, Scarlet 
$90 
Filson Whipcord Trail Pants 
“A Backpacker's Delight” 
Specially designed “‘all purpose” outdoor pants full cut 
for freedom. Pockets a-plenty ; 
two bellows pockets with 
flaps over two deep cargo pockets in front, plus two 
large back pockets with snap flaps. All pockets are 
double stitched. Men’s model has eight sturdy belt loops, 
women’s model has seven — both easily accommodate a 
1%" belt. Heavy-duty zipper fly. Women’s model has 
concealed elastic waistband in the back assuring a com- 
fortable fit. Patterned for real move-around comfort 
plus flattering-good looks. The very best in utility and 
durability. A casual item for the smart set. 
Color: Forest Green, Sage Gray 
$58.50 
Filson Olympic Cruiser 
“Medium-weight for Town & 
Country wear” 
Styling is smartly casual in a beauti- 
ful brown heather shade. An 
especially woven 21 ounce virgin 
wool gives this cruiser coat a classic 
beauty all its own. Features a 
cape front and a double back for 
extra protection. Special double 
lower pockets combine a utility 
pocket and concealed hand warmer 
pocket with side opening. Top front 
pockets and a full carrying pocket in 
the back provide exceptional utility. 
Added inside pocket. Button 
closures throughout. A rare combi- 
nation of rugged good looks offers an 
excellent choice for all around use. 
Color: Brown Heather 
$95 
