—— 
> ee 
SS 
lL 
344 
COMMUNITY ~ 
WOMEN’S HEALTH 
My Body, My Health 
This will be welcomed by both health professionals and 
women interested in self-care and quality gynecological 
care. Written by several people long-respected in gynecol- 
ogy and family planning circles, its concise yet surprisingly 
thorough chapters cover the gamut of women’s most 
frequently encountered health concerns: pregnancy, 
birth control, abortion, surviving a pelvic exam, common 
infections, menstrual problems, abnormal pap smears, 
breast self-exam, breast lumps, cancer, sexual problems, 
menopause, surgery, etc. 
/ appreciated the up-to-date coverage of DES exposure 
and rape, and the special section (available in the clin- 
ician’s edition only) on developing patient education 
programs and obtaining legal consent. 
The sections on 
teenage sexuality, vaginal hygiene, recognition of early 
signs of pregnancy, facing surgery, and special help in 
choosing a method of birth control are sensitively written 
and cover topics not easily found elsewhere. 
Lists of good references for some topics — particularly 
DES — are included, as is a list of recommendations for 
further reading. The only improvements | could suggest 
would be more explanations of alternative or holistic 
approaches to women’s health concerns, and more 
consideration of women’s lifestyles, stress, exercise, 
and nutrition. 
All in all, this is a fine piece of work — our first lay 
gynecology textbook. 
I’d like to see a copy in every 
library, every women’s clinic, and every gynecologist’s 
waiting room. 
—Carol Berry, R.N., N.P. 
[Suggested by Tom Ferguson, M.D.] 
My Body, My Health 
(The Concerned Woman's 
Guide to Gynecology) 
Felicia Stewart, M.D., 
Felicia Guest, Gary 
Stewart, M.D., and 
Robert Hatcher, M.D. 
1979; 566 pp. 
$7 -95 postpaid 
(Regular Edition) 
$14.50 postpaid 
(Clinician’s Edition) 
both from: 
John Wiley and Sons 
One Wiley Drive 
Somerset, NJ 08873 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
(Regular Edition only) 
e 
Taking Minipills is a method of birth control that many 
women would seriously consider if they only knew about 
them. Estrogen-free Minipills offer many of the benefits 
of regular Pills, with fewer side effects and a lower 
overall dose of hormone. Although Minipills are relatively 
new and detailed studies of Minipill safety are not yet 
completed, this method seems to deserve a more promi- 
nent place among contraceptive options than it now has. 
lf manufacturers’ marketing policies were altered to give 
Minipills the exposure that regular Pills now receive, it is 
likely that many women who now choose Pills might 
decide to try Minipills instead. 
e 
I’ve examined my breasts each and every month for at 
least ten years, and | still have'to make myself do it every 
time! 
| always do it in the morning of a weekday ; 
so | 
can call my doctor immediately if | find anything. 
| 
don’t think | could do it at night. 
—Woman, 33 
It would be less frightening to find a lump that wasn’t 
there a month ago than to find a lump that wasn’t there a 
year ago. Two recent breast cancer studies estimate that 
there may be a 15% to 24% increase in survival after 
breast cancer for women who do monthly breast self- 
exams compared to women who do not. 
Investigators 
believe that regular breast self-exams clearly helped women 
find breast cancer at an earlier, more treatable stage. 
e 
Breast lumps are fairly common, and about nine out of 
ten lumps are not cancer. See your clinician at once if 
you finda lump. You may avoid anxious, worrying 
nights. There is absolutely nothing to be gained by wait- 
ing to see if your lump goes away. 
A 
Lie down and put one arm behind your head. You will 
first examine the breast on the same side as your raised 
arm. 
(Putting your arm behind your head stretches 
chest muscles so that you will have a firmer surface to 
press downward on.) Fee/ every part of your breast by 
pressing the flat part of your fingertips on a spot and then 
moving your whole hand in a small circle so that the 
breast tissue slides back and forth under the skin. 
Our Bodies, Ourselves 
/f anyone has any doubts left that women can really get it 
together, they should have a look at this book. 
It’s 
written by and for women and is a masterpiece. 
The 
subject is our bodies — our relationship to them, to our- 
selves, to men, to each other, and to our society. 
It 
makes me feel very special but in no way unique — a 
warm and wonderful feeling. 
/t’s a political book in the best sense of bringing it all 
back home and making it clear how we got here and 
where we need to go. It’s full of good solid information 
which is presented in a tone totally different from either 
the usual medical presentations, or the “‘just relax sweetie, 
and I‘/l tell you where it’s at’’ tone of some women 
authors. 
If you don’t think you have any questions 
about your body, you'll probably be surprised. And if 
youre looking for a stronger, clearer sense of yourself 
as a woman, you'll be satisfied. What it reminds me of 
mostis awoman’s body — intelligent, warm, soft, inviting. 
—Diana Barich 
[Suggested by Jane Pincus] 
With over a million copies sold since 1970, this much- 
copied book has been a banner success for the Women’s 
Movement and for self-publishing. 
The second edition 
(1976, 1979), with 50% new material, continues 
the excellence. 
—SB 
$6.95 postpaid from: 
Simon and Schuster 
Attn: Order Department 
1230 Avenue of 
the Americas 
New York, NY 10020 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Our Bodies, Ourselves 
(A Book by and 
for Women) 
Boston Women’s 
Health Collective 
1971, 1979; 383 pp. 
At Highest Risk 
/t’s a wipeout to read, but a necessary one. 
What Ms. 
Norwood is on the track of, with a fine comprehensivity, 
is no less than some of the subtlest evil around. 
The 
widely reported increasing evidence of human-caused 
cancer is only an indication of the much deeper damage 
turning up in our children. Chromosomes, fetuses, and 
children are far more susceptible than adu/ts to the geno- 
toxic effects of new chemicals, heavy metals, X-rays and 
other radiation, parental smoking and alcoholism, and 
even asbestos. 
At Highest Risk 
(Environmental Hazards 
for Young and 
Unborn Children) 
Christopher Norwood 
1980; 280 pp. 
$1 0.95 postpaid from: 
McGraw-Hill Book Co. 
Princeton Road 
Hightstown, NJ 08520 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
‘~ 
e 
Why are hormones evidently teratogenic after brief use, 
while the teratogenicity of alcohol seems to depend on 
chronic use? On the other hand, why are perhaps 30 
percent of the children of alcoholic, or “heavy drinking,” 
mothers born with congenital malformations, while even 
the daily use of hormone supports seems to elicit relatively 
few serious malformations? After all the investigations of 
operating rooms, alcohol, and hormones, the hows and 
whys of birth defects remained as elusive as ever. Scien- 
tists still could go no further than the exasperated state- 
ment of a government scientist that most defects were 
probably “the result of teratogenic agents acting on sus- 
ceptible individuals by mechanisms known only to God.” 
e 
The federal Environmental Protection Agency now 
estimates that there are about 2,500 similar toxic land- 
fills and open dumps scattered across the United States, 
and that perhaps eight hundred of these pose as serious 
a health threat as the Love Canal — either potentially or, 
perhaps, at the present moment. As other states begin to 
contend with their industrial waste sites, will their health 
departments find as many deaf and retarded and mal- 
formed children as were found near the ditch William 
Love left behind? 
e 
In a brief outline, the Meyer team first concluded that 
“the risk of perinatal death increased directly with the 
smoking level’’ — by 22 percent when a mother smoked 
less than a pack a day, and by 44 percent when a mother 
smoked more than a pack a day. The Meyer team next 
learned that mothers who had smoked had more low- 
birthweight children (infants who weigh less than 2500 
grams, or 5 pounds 8 ounces) and more preterm children 
(those born before thirty-eight weeks’ gestation) than 
women who didn’t smoke. 
We were both really 
excited. He began rub- 
bing my clitoris hard 
and it hurt. 
It took me 
a second to figure out 
what to do. | was afraid 
that if | said something 
about it | would spoil 
the excitement for both 
of us. Then | realized | 
could just take his hand 
and very gently move it 
up a little higher to my 
pubic hair. 
When estimates of the number of rapes that go unreported 
are combined with the rising rape rate, we find that as 
many as 7 out of every 3 women in the U.S. will be raped 
during her lifetime. 
Here are some precuations against rape by a stranger, used 
by many women: 
e We can get together with other women in the same 
neighborhood or apartment building. We can establish 
a signal (e.g., a special whistle) as a call for help, exchange 
phone numbers, find out those times we can accompany 
each other while walking on the streets at night, and 
of any ways we can help one another to avoid situations 
where rapes might occur. 
© |f we live alone we can list only our first initials in the 
phone directory and on our mailboxes. 
Also, we might 
add the names of fake roommates or housemates to 
our mailboxes. 
e On all outside doors, we can use dead-bolt locks that 
are harder to jimmy. We should be sure we know who 
we are letting in before we let them in. 
e We can keep our windows locked, especially at night, 
and obtain special iron grids for windows on the first 
floor (this is particularly important for windows that we 
want to keep open). 
e We should keep all hallways and entrances brightly lit. 
(Sometimes we need to pressure our landlords in order 
to get adequate lighting.) 
Also, we should try to have our 
keys ready before we reach the door. 
e 
| left the clinic with my friend, feeling two ways about 
the whole experience: one, that I’d had as good and 
supportive an abortion experience as a woman could have; 
and two, | would never put myself in the position of 
having to go through it again. 
SS 
Is My Baby All Right? 
A surprisingly candid and sensible guide to birth defects. 
All prospective parents should read it, because it informs 
without scaring. Birth defects are much more common 
than we‘d like to think, and genetic counseling far less 
available than we’d want. 
This book explains a lot the 
ways that things can go wrong, treats the major defects 
extensively, and tells you what can or can’t be done 
about them. 
—Diana Barich 
Is My Baby All Right? 
Virginia Apgar, M.D., 
M.P.H. and Joan Beck 
1973; 542 pp. 
$14.95 postpaid from: 
Simon and Schuster 
Attn: Order Department 
1230 Avenue of 
the Americas 
New York, NY 10020 
Corrective shoes held in position by a metal bar may be 
worn by a baby to treat mild degrees of clubfoot, or 
following removal of corrective plaster casts. 
Adjustable screw 
Metal ar 
