7 
e 
coverage of the pet scene (except for 
Lorenz and The Complete Dog Book). Nothing on 
cats here at all. How about some advice from pet- 
knowledgeable readers, so our next edition won’t 
be so lame in this area? We pay $10 for sugges- 
tions and for reviews that are used. 
—SB 
King Solomon's Ring 
Man Meets Dog 
The classic animal books by the originator of ethology, 
the study of animal behavior. 
Lorenz loves his pets and 
understands them, and they seem to respond in kind. 
King Solomon’s Ring 
Konrad Z. Lorenz 
1952; 202 pp. 
$1 95 postpaid from: 
New American Library 
P.O. Box 120 
120 Woodbine 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Man Meets Dog 
Konrad Z. Lorenz 
1954; 198 pp. 
$3.70 postpaid from: 
Penguin Books 
299 Murray Hill Parkway 
East Rutherford, NJ 07073 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store ,-». 
e 
Why has the dog the inhibition against biting his fellow’s 
neck? Why has the raven an inhibition against pecking 
the eye of his friend? Why has the ring-dove no such 
“insurance” against murder? A really comprehensive 
answer to these questions is almost impossible. 
It would 
certainly involve a historical explanation of the process 
by which these inhibitions have been developed in the 
course of evolution. There is no doubt that they have 
arisen side by side with the development of the dangerous 
weapons of the beast of prey. However, it is perfectly 
obvious why these inhibitions are necessary to all weapon- 
bearing animals. Should the raven peck, without com- 
punction, at the eye of his nest-mate, his wife or his 
young, in the same way as he pecks at any other moving 
and glittering object, there would, by now, be no more 
ravens in the world. Should a dog or wolf unrestrain- 
edly and unaccountably bite the neck of his pack-mates 
and actually execute the movement of shaking them to 
death, then his species also would certainly be extermin- 
ated within a short space of time. 
The ring-dove does not require such an inhibition since it 
can only inflict injury to a much lesser degree, while 
its ability to flee is so well developed that it suffices to 
Protect the bird even against enemies equipped with 
vastly better weapons. Only under the unnatural condi- 
tions of close confinement which deprive the losing dove 
of the possibility of flight does it become apparent that 
the ring-dove has no inhibitions which prevent it from 
injuring or even torturing its own kind. 
— King Solomon’‘s Ring 
An everyday occurrence: you are walking along the 
front of a garden fence and a big dog is growling and 
barking behind it. Judging by the behavior of the 
animal, which is snarling and biting the fence with brut- 
ally bared fangs, it is only the railings that keep him from 
your throat. On such occasions | am not intimidated by 
these threats of violence and | always open the garden 
gate without hesitation. The dog demurs; unsure what to 
do next, he continues to bark but in much less menacing 
tones, and his demeanour plainly betrays that he 
would never have exhibited so much fury had he foreseen 
that | should not respect the inviolability of the fence. 
It may even happen that when the gate is opened, he 
flees several yards and then keeps up his barking in a 
different tone and from a safe distance. And conversely 
a very shy dog, or wolf, which shows no sign of enmity 
or mistrust from behind the bars, may attack in deadly 
earnest anyone appearing in the doorway. 
These apparently opposite types of behaviour can all be 
explained in terms of the same psychological mechanism. 
Every animal, particularly every large mammal, will flee 
before a superior rival as soon as it comes within a 
certain fixed distance. The ‘flight distance,’ as Prof. 
Hediger, its discoverer, calls it, increases proportionately 
with the degree of fear which the animal possesses for its 
opponent. There is an exactly predictable point at 
which an animal will turn tail when an enemy starts to 
encroach on the flight distance, and there is a similar 
point at which it will fight if the enemy gets very close. 
Under natural conditions, such an overstepping of the 
‘critical distance’ (Hediger) only occurs in two instances, 
either when the animal is taken by surprise or when it is 
cornered and so unable to flee. 
— Man Meets Dog 
————————————— 
_____| | 
The Complete Dog Book 
1 hate dogs and like this book. Scanning through the 
breeds recognized by the American Kennel Club (whose 
official publication this is) | find myself commencing to 
shop. Hm, would | like a Siberian Husky (fastidiously 
clean, amiable), a French Bulldog (intelligent, not noisy), 
a Mastiff (one brought down an elephant), an Otter 
Hound (sagacious, devoted, web-footed)? The brief 
authoritative introductions to care, training, health, 
breeding, etc. seem manageable. 
| even like this kind of 
book — co-evolved with its users and its dogs through 
sixteen editions, cheap, restrained and proud. 
—SB 
The Complete 
Dog Book 
(The photographs, 
history and official 
standard of every breed 
admitted to AKC 
registration, and the 
selection, training, 
breeding, care and 
feeding of pure-bred dogs) 
American Kennel Club 
1941, 1979; 768 pp. 
$1 1.95 postpaid from: 
Howell Book House 
230 Park Avenue 
New York, NY 10017 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Schipperke. The name is Flemish for ‘‘little captain’’ and 
is properly pronounced “‘skeep-er-ker”’ (the last r almost 
silent). Though called a canalboat dog, the Schipperke 
was as popular with shoemakers and other workmen as it 
was on the canals . .. While usually an excellent ratter, 
the Schip is not a powerful fighter, though he can hold his 
own with most dogs of his weight and will tackle anything 
in defense of his household or of his master. 
He is not 
aware of the limitations of his size. 
. 
. This breed is 
usually long-lived for a small one, many instances of dogs 
living to be fifteen and sixteen years old being recorded; 
one dog, bred in Rothesay, Scotland, was reputed to have 
lived twenty-one years. Schips are very fond of children 
and in some cases have served as guards; and they have 
taken the place, to some extent, of human nurses, so 
devoted are they to their small charges. 
The Schipperke is often called ‘‘the best house dog”’ (le 
meilleur chien de maison). 
Giving a ‘‘line’’ 
signal to a dog on 
the Directional 
Retrieve. 
—The Pearsall 
Guide to 
Successful 
Dog Training 
The Pearsall Guide to Successful 
Dog Training 
Neither rough nor punishment-based, this guide for 
“obedience from the dog’s point of view” goes from 
house-breaking the puppy to advanced training, with 
basic, novice, open, and utility training along the way. 
A highly regarded method and book. 
It looks like fun; 
the old harsh methods weren't. 
ees 
—SB 
The Pearsall Guide 
to Successful 
Dog Training 
(Obedience from the 
dog's point of view) 
Margaret E. Pearsall 
1973, 1976; 351 pp. 
$1 1.95 postpaid from: 
Howell Book House 
230 Park Avenue 
New York, NY 10017 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
We can generally classify the voice in four categories: 
a. Coaxing: Used to excite the pup into doing something. 
b. Happy: For a job well done, especially after a correc- 
tion has been applied. 
c. Harsh: Never to be used, even if the pup is slow to 
learn. You just might be the one to blame. 
d. Demanding: To be used only when you are positive 
your pup knows what you want but refuses. 
Let him know you mean business when you demand 
something from him, but don’t let any harsh correction 
or punishing tone creep into your voice. A coaxing or 
pleading voice will not get the desired response, will not 
encourage respect and obedience; nor will you get any- 
where with a sharp, cross voice, as this can convey just as 
much unpleasantness as physical punishment. 
You want 
your Buddy as a companion and, still more important, 
he wants you as one. 
Don't let your emotions show in 
your voice (other than what is required when you're 
working with him) and don’t try to fake anything with 
him. He will be able to see through you every time, so 
why bother trying to fool him? 
It proves to be wasted 
time and energy. 
Also, an unusually loud command is 
unnecessary, as a dog’s normal hearing is so acute that it 
is one of his outstanding attributes. 
If a more severe tone of voice should be needed as a 
correction, clip your words off as you say them, to get 
more immediate attention. 
In doing this be careful you 
do not accompany this with glaring or staring at your dog. 
Remember this all through training: Whenever you are 
facing your dog, always look above his head or a bit to 
his side, never at his eyes. 
Right now we want to have you become familiar with 
commands you will be using, teaching your dog different 
exercises as you go along through the basic part of his 
education and on into the more advanced phases. 
Always use your dog’s name for attention, then follow 
with a command that you want him to carry out. Some 
of these are “Heel,” “Sit,” “Stand,” “Down,” “Stay,” 
“Wait,” and “Come.” Another word we would like to 
have you get in the habit of using is not a command 
but is extremely important in your training. This is the 
word “Good!” for it is so easy to inject your feelings and 
pleasure into it and let Buddy know you are happy with 
his performance. 
At heart of the Pearsall training methods is a constant 
awareness of what we are asking of the dog. Herea 
class literally sees signals from the dog’s point of view. 
