406 
i 
i 
a 
-_ “2 
NOMADICS 
CAR REPAIR 
Basic Auto Repair Manual 
This manual is intended to be an introduction to automo- 
bile mechanics and the more fearsome professional shop 
manuals. 
It contains about all the amateur mechanic 
needs to know in order to diagnose, repair, and maintain 
domestic cars. 
It is assumed that the mechanic has no 
experience at all. All major assemblies are well illustrated 
and explained both in principle and specifically, with 
note made of quirks found in certain models. 
There are 
chapters or remarks on tools needed and how to use them 
them, working safely, junk yard technique, on-the-road 
repairs, and general money saving. 
There is a very good 
chapter on logical trouble shooting. 
“If this is wrong, 
try this first, this second, etc.” Included is most likely 
diagnosis and prescription. Common repairs like 
“putting in new points” are covered neatly. Major jobs 
are presented so that the amateur mechanic can get 
most of the work done before calling in expensive expert 
help. 
It is clearly stated when to give up, and what not 
to attempt without expertise. 
They even tell you how 
much you will save, and how /ong it will take. 
This is a 
great book for that person trying to keep the oldie going 
and/or who wants to understand cars in general. Well 
worth the money. 
—J. Baldwin 
Basic Auto Repair 
Manual 
Spence Murray, Editor 
1977; 384 pp. 
8th Edition 
$12.95 Postpaid from: 
Peterson Publishing 
Company 
Attn: Book Fulfillment 
6725 Sunset Boulevard 
Los Angeles, CA 90028 
To disassemble this Ford 
starter, loosen and re- 
move the brush cover 
band, starter drive 
Plunger lever cover and 
the cork gasket under it. 
BASIC BEGINNER’S TOOLS 
1. Combination box- and open-end. wrenches, from %-in. 
through 1 in. in increments of 1/16-in. 
2. %-in.-drive socket set, with ratchet and breaker bar 
3. %-in-drive spark plug socket and three extensions—a 
short one, a long one and a flex-drive 
4. Four screwdrivers—one short and one long of both the 
Phillips type and the regular, flat-tip type 
5. Pair of slip-joint pliers 
6. Pair of needle-nose pliers 
7. Adjustable wrench (Crescent type) 
& Roll of mechanic's wire (cheap and very handy 
at times) 
9. Diagonal cutting pliers 
10. Small stock of sundries, such as electrical tape, 
WD-40 oil, engine degreaser, white-grease lube and 
spray-can paints 
11. Ball-peen hammer 
12. Two jack stands 
13. Scissors jack (better than bumper jack, but not as 
expensive as a hydraulic jack) 
i ee ee ee 
Oe ee 
| a 
How to Keep Your Volkswagen Alive 
In 1968 John Muir, a 50-year-old dropout NASA engineer 
who‘d settled into a mixed career of science fiction 
writing and car repair in the wide open spaces between 
Mexico and Taos, was forced by the pressures of the 
moment — his own wedding — into writing instructions 
on how to do a valve job for a friend instead of helping 
out in person as he usually did. Although the novice 
mechanic caught her hair in the fan belt as the completed 
engine was being tested (the book now advises a stocking 
cap) the operation as a whole was a success. 
The idea that 
some kind of book might help out a lot of people who 
had the desire to do it themselves, but lacked the exper- 
ience, soon followed. 
Publishers disagreed, saying there was no market for such 
a book, so Muir sold his house to finance the publishing 
of 2500 copies, and a new outfit in Berkeley called Book- 
people did the distribution. 
His book was reviewed in 
another just-born publication, The Whole Earth Catalog. 
That was December ‘69. Since then sales of the Idiot 
Book, as it instantly became known, have reached 1.3 
million, including the German and Spanish translations. 
A 360-page 21st printing now covers all air-cooled 
VWs through ‘79. 
How does a simple, wire-bound book about fixing old cars 
manage to generate a steady stream of /etters over the 
years that read “. .. your book changed my life.“’? The 
Idiot Book did two things well. 
First it taught a specific 
skill, one that had been reserved for “experts” who 
believed in the mystification of their knowledge. 
But 
more importantly it opened a door in the mind as those 
who took the risk were introduced to the rewards of 
manual skills. When they found they could fix their 
own car they began to go beyond other previous limita- 
tions and take charge of their own lives. After the car 
was fixed they took on the plumbing, the washing 
machine, and finally built their own houses. 
Which is 
not to say that the Idiot Book is God’s Word delivered, 
but reader feedback from 20 printings has reduced the 
blemishes to almost nil, and only a small-minded nit- 
picker could still debate such arcanums as whether 
clogged heat risers really do produce burned rods. 
Howard Palmer, who runs Rveeco (VW engine rebuilders 
in Berkeley) and knows so much about VWs that Muir 
went there to learn the fine points, brings up other 
matters that are familiar to students of the marque, but 
not emphasized in the book. 
The Achilles’ heel of any 
aircoaled engine is overheating, and as VW began to boost 
hp their cooling systems failed to keep pace. For those 
who seldom leave the city there’s no problem, but long 
cruises in the summer can produce bad news in the engine 
compartment, either the immediate grief of a thrown rod 
or the slow debilitation that’s produced by a toasted valve. 
Engine sealing is a good place to start in avoiding those 
catastrophes, for that little bugger is sucking in 1300 
cubic feet of air per minute, and if the rubber engine 
compartment seal is shot, like most of them are, it’l/ pull 
up air from down below that’s just passed over the 
muffler and heater boxes and comes blazing in at 450°. 
Recycled heat. Assuming you have an oil temp gauge and 
are aware of the problem, a basic response is to drive 
slower, but who’s got the self contro! when there’s still 
200 miles between you and E/ Paso and the heat is 
frying your brain? 
More effective than self control is an outside oil cooler, 
but emphasize outside, for if it’s inside the engine com- 
partment it’s just more recycled heat, you want those 
BTUs outside. Same with leaks in the fan shrouding 
and the tin, the tighter the seal the more heat stays 
off the engine. 
So if you can keep it cool, and follow the book’s advice 
on regular oil changes and tune-ups, your VW engine can 
last indefinitely. Remember Muir's slogan: “Come to 
kindly terms with your Ass for it bears you.” 
—Dick Fugett 
How to Keep Your 
Volkswagen Alive 
(A Manual of Step by 
Step Procedures for 
the Compleat Idiot) 
John Muir 
1969, 1979; 364 pp. 
$10 postpaid from: 
John Muir Publications 
P.O. Box 613 
Santa Fe, NM 87501 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
aL 
4 
. 
” 
“ 
7 
ed 
wa 
s 
In the VW engine,*the connecting rods splash about in 
the oil sump and this oils the cylinder walls. While a car 
sits all night the oil film between the pistons and cylinder 
walls comes loose due to the action of gravity. 
In 
addition to this you always start the engine with a shot of 
raw gas, either by pumping the accelerator pedal or by 
choke action and raw gas has a tendency to wash the oil 
off the cylinder walls. OK? All the super warm-up 
equipment that VW hangs on their engines doesn’t change 
this one whit. 
| warm my engine up for the two or three 
minutes it takes me to roll a cigarette, light it and get it 
drawing well. | have disconnected my automatic choke 
so | don’t have that worry, but | do pump the accelerator 
a little to get some gas down there to start the cold 
engine. 
In those one-half to three minutes, depending 
on the weather (the colder, the longer), the rods are doing 
their thing in getting the oil on the cylinder walls, all the 
way around; the raw gas that | pumped in has been used, 
and there is enough of a film of oil protecting my cylinder 
walls from being excessively worn by the passage of the 
rings. Now when | put a load on the engine, it is the oil 
that carries that load, not the metal. The morning warm- 
up is the nicest thing you can possibly do for your engine. 
Poor Richard’s Rabbit Book 
Well, bugs and buses come, and someday they may go, 
but there’s still 11 million of them on the road, which is 
10 million more than there are Rabbits. But the Rabbits 
are multiplying like mad whereas the “‘real’” VWs are no 
longer sold in the U.S. 
There are bugs being built in 
Mexico and Brazil (has anyone tried bringing one in?) but 
for most folks who want economical German machinery 
the Rabbit is the obvious answer. 
Muir was 60 now, and a folk hero to boot, but there was 
this damned new VW coming out, an all new water-cooled 
engine stuck up in front, black boxes and devious smog 
devices everywhere, even a diesel option. A new book 
was called for, a great challenge, but what a drag to start 
from scratch again. However, the flow evidently aimed 
at making the Rabbit book. Richard Sealey, a British 
racing mechanic whom Muir had met on a trip to Europe, 
wound up in Santa Fe, but as the Rabbit project got 
under way in 1977 Muir died (attentively, at home, 
with friends). 
John Muir Publications bought the funkiest, rankest 
Rabbit in town and Sealey crawled underneath to get 
acquainted. 
Three years and many Rabbits later he 
emerged, a Perfected Master, and work on the book 
began. So now there’s another big floppy volume out, 
400 pages worth of Poor Richard’s Rabbit Book, a/ias 
the new Idiot Book. 
Precise, step by step instructions guide us in our struggle 
with Technological Challenge, along with the wit, philo- 
sophical commentary and great illustrations we’ve come 
to expect from Muir publications. 
/t’s a brand new book 
and with shop rates.in the $25 - $30 an hour range it 
can’t help but sell. For starters the JMP people have a 
note from a Wisconsin VW dealer they'd shipped copies 
to for resale. He wanted a second shipment fast since the 
first batch had been bought out by his own mechanics. 
So if youre moving forward (?) into the high tech era of 
autos, you won’t find a better friend. A good number of 
folks who first met the underside of a VW with Muir's 
guidance went on, like myself, to careers as mechanics. 
/t will probably happen again. Happy wrenching to 
—Dick Fugett 
one and all. 
Poor Richard's 
Rabbit Book 
(How to Keep Your 
Volkswagen Alive; Being 
a Manual of Step-by- 
Step Procedures for 
the Compleat Idiot) 
Richard Sealey 
1980; 412 pp. 
$13.50 postpaid from: 
John Muir Publications 
P.O. Box 613 
Santa Fe, NM 87501 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
| ea RETEIEE 
Lj. 
UR IDs 
eT O 
Re _ 
| 
9 
Tot 
Volkswagen Official Service Manuals 
Resign yourself to the fact that no single manual ever 
written will cover everything you want to know; it’s the 
same as with cookbooks. 
But if you’ve finished the /diot 
Book and you still have fire in your eye then check out 
the VW Service Manual, printed by Bentley. 
Unlike Muir 
the book assumes you know a little about what you‘re 
doing, and there are plenty of good photos and diagrams 
to help out. 
Their dry, technical style makes us long for 
Muir’s wit, but the great color wiring diagrams almost 
let us forgive them. Good sections on body and frame, 
front end work and transaxles. 
They print numerous 
manuals to cover models from 1966 through the Rabbits, 
including Super Beetle, Beetle and Karmann Ghia 
1970-79, Beetle and Karmann Ghia 1966-1969; Super 
Beetle, Beetle and Karmann Ghia 1970-1974, Fastback 
and Squareback 1968-1973; Rabbit/Scirocco Gasoline 
Models 1975-1979, Station Wagon/Bus 1968-1979; 
Rabbit Diesel 1977-1980; and Dasher 1974-1979. 
—Dick Fugett 
Volkswagen Official 
As 
Service Manual 
$1 6.50 each from: 
Robert Bentley, Inc. 
872 Massachusetts Ave. 
Cambridge, MA 02139 
or your VW dealer 
