While the class sat in stern silence | began to talk, 
lecture, sermonize about the value of community. At 
this stage of the game I was debating in my own mind 
whether to stop the experiment or continue. I hadn’t 
planned such intensity or compliance. In fact I was 
surprised to find the ideas on discipline enacted at all. 
While debating whether to stop or go on with the 
experiment I talked on and on about community. | 
made up stories from my experiences as an athlete, 
coach and historian. It was easy. Community is that 
bond between individuals who work and struggle to- 
gether. It’s raising a barn with your neighbors, it’s 
feeling that you are a part of something beyond 
yourself, a movement, a team, La Raza, a cause. 
It was too late to step back. I now can appreciate 
why the astronomer turns relentlessly to the telescope. 
I was probing deeper and deeper into my own percep- 
tions and the motivations for group and individual 
action. There was much more to see and try to under- 
stand. Many questions haunted me. Why did the stu- 
dents accept the authority I was imposing? Where is 
their curiosity or resistance to this martial behavior? 
When and how will this end? 
Following my description of community I once again 
told the class that community, like discipline, must be 
experienced if it is to be understood. To provide an 
encounter with community I had the class recite in 
unison, “Strength Through Discipline.” “Strength 
Through Community.” First I would have two stu- 
dents stand and call back our motto. Then add two 
more until finally the whole class was standing and 
reciting. It was fun. The students began to look at 
each other and sense the power of belonging. Every- 
one was capable and equal. They were doing some- 
thing together. We worked on this simple act for the 
entire class period. We would repeat the mottos in a 
rotating chorus, or say them with various degrees of 
loudness. Always we said them together, emphasizing 
the proper way to sit, stand, and talk. 
I began to think of myself as a part of the experi- 
ment. I enjoyed the unified action demonstrated by 
the students. 
It was rewarding to see their satisfaction 
and excitement to do more. I found it harder and 
harder to extract myself from the momentum and 
identity that the class was developing. I was follow- 
ing the group dictate as much as I was directing it. 
As the class period was ending and without fore- 
thought I created a class salute. It was for class 
members only. To make the salute you brought 
your right hand up toward the right shoulder in a 
curled position. I called it the Third Wave salute 
because the hand resembled a wave about to top 
over. The idea for the three came from beach lore 
that waves travel in chains, the third wave being 
the last and largest of each series. Since we had a 
salute I made it a rule to salute all class members 
outside the classroom. When the bell sounded ending 
the period, I asked the class for complete silence. 
With everyone sitting at attention I slowly raised my 
arm and with a cupped hand I saluted. It was a silent 
signal of recognition. They were something special. 
Without command the entire group of students 
returned the salute. 
Throughout the next few days students in the class 
would exchange this greeting. You would be walking 
down the hall when all of a sudden three classmates 
would turn your way each flashing a quick salute. In 
the library or in gym students would be seen giving 
this strange hand jive. You would hear a crash of 
cafeteria food only to have it followed by two class- 
mates saluting each other. The mystique of thirty 
individuals doing this strange gyration soon brought 
more attention to the class and its experiment into 
the German personality. Many students outside the 
STRENGTH THROUGH ACTION 
~ 
N WEDNESDAY, I 
decided to issue membership cards to every student 
that wanted to continue what I now called The 
Experiment. Not a single student elected to leave the 
room. In this the third day of activity there were 
forty-three students in the class. Thirteen students 
had cut other classes to be a part of The Experiment. 
While the class sat at attention I gave each person a 
card. I marked three of the cards with a red X and 
informed the recipients that they had a special 
assignment: -to report any students not complying 
with class rules. I then proceeded to talk about the 
meaning of action. I explained how discipline and 
community were meaningless without action. I 
discussed the beauty of taking full responsibility for 
one’s action. Of believing so thoroughly in yourself 
and your community or family that you will do any- 
thing to preserve, protect and extend that being. I 
stressed how hard work and allegiance to each other 
would allow accelerated learning and accomplish- 
ment. I reminded students of what it felt like being 
in classes where competition caused pain and 
degradation. Situations in which students were 
pitted against each other in everything from gym to 
reading. The feeling of never acting, never being a 
part of something, never supporting each other. 
At this point students stood without prompting and 
began to give what amounted to testimonials. “Mr. 
Jones, for the first time I’m learning lots of things.” 
“Mr. Jones, why don’t you teach like this all the 
time.’ I was shocked! Yes, I had been pushing 
information at them in an extremely controlled 
setting but the fact that they found it comfortable and 
acceptable was startling. It was equally disconcerting 
to realize that complex and time-consuming written 
homework assignments on German life were being 
completed and even enlarged on by students. Per- 
formance in academic skill areas was significantly 
improving. They were learning more. And they 
seemed to want more. I began to think that the 
students might do anything I assigned. I decided to 
find out. 
To allow students the experience of direct action I 
gave each individual a specific verbal assignment. 
“It’s your task to design a Third Wave Banner. You. 
are responsible for stopping any student that is not a 
Third Wave member from entering this room. I want 
you to remember and be able to recite by tomorrow 
the name and address of every Third Wave Member. 
You are assigned the problem of training and con- 
vincing at least twenty children in the adjacent 
elementary school that our sitting posture is necessary 
for better learning. It’s your job to read this 
pamphlet and report its entire content to the class 
before the period ends. I want each of you to give 
me the name and address of one reliable friend that 
you think might want to join the Third Wave.” 
To conclude the session on direct action, I instructed 
students in a simple procedure for initiating new 
members. It went like this. 
A new member had only 
to be recommended by an existing member and issued 
a card by me. Upon receiving this card the new mem- 
THE THIRD WAVE. 375 
ber had to demonstrate knowledge of our rules and 
pledge obedience to them. My announcement un- 
leashed a fervor. 
The school was alive with conjecture and curiosity. 
It affected everyone. The school cook asked what a 
Third Wave cookie looked like. I said chocolate chip 
of course. Our principal came into an afternoon 
faculty meeting and gave me the Third Wave salute. 
I saluted back. The librarian thanked me for our 
30’ banner on learning which she placed above the 
library entrance. By the end of the day over two 
hundred students were admitted into the order. I 
felt very alone and a little scared. 
Most of my fear emanated from the incidence of tattle- 
taling. Although I formally appointed only three 
students to report deviate behavior, approximately 
twenty students came to me with reports about how 
Allan didn’t salute, or Georgene was talking critically 
about our experiment. This incidence of monitoring 
meant that half the class now considered it their duty 
to observe and report on members of their class. With- 
in this avalanche of reporting one legitimate conspir- 
acy did seem under way. 
Three women in the class had told their parents all 
about our classroom activities. These three young 
women were by far the most intelligent students in 
the class. As friends they chummed together. They 
possessed a silent confidence and took pleasure in a 
school setting that gave them academic and leader- 
ship opportunity. During the days of the experiment 
I was curious how they would respond to the egali- 
tarian and physical reshaping of the class. The 
rewards they were accustomed to winning just didn’t 
exist in the experiment. The intellectual skills of 
questioning and reasoning were nonexistent. 
In the 
martial atmosphere of the class they seemed stunned 
and pensive. Now that I look back, they appeared 
much like the child with so-called learning disability. 
They watched the activities and participated in a 
mechanical fashion. Where others jumped in, they 
held back, watching. 
In telling their parents of the experiment, they set up 
a brief chain of events. The rabbi for one of the 
parents called me at home. He was polite and con- 
descending. I told him we were merely studying the 
German personality. He seemed delighted and told 
me not to worry. He would talk to the parents and 
calm their concern. In concluding this conversation 
J envisioned similar conversations throughout history 
in which the clergy accepted and apologized for un- 
tenable conditions. If only he would have raged in 
anger or simply investigated the situation I could 
point the students to an example of righteous re- 
bellion. But no. The rabbi became a part of the 
experiment. In remaining ignorant of the oppression 
in the experiment he became an accomplice and 
advocate. 
By the end of the third day I was exhausted. I was 
tearing apart. The balance between role playing and 
directed behavior became indistinguishable. Many 
of the students were completely into being Third 
Wave members. They demanded strict obedience 
of the rules from other students and bullied those 
that took the experiment lightly. Others simply 
sank into the activity and took self-assigned roles. 
I particularly remember Robert. Robert was big 
for his age and displayed very few academic skills. 
Oh he tried harder than anyone I know to be success- 
ful. He handed in elaborate weekly reports copied 
word for word from the reference books in the 
library. Robert is like so many kids in school that 
don’t excel or cause trouble. They aren’t bright, 
they can’t make the athletic teams, and don’t strike 
out for attention. They are lost, invisible. The 
only reason I came to know Robert at all is that I 
2) fo Aas, Ve) ee 
et eee eee) Sb) 6 88 
6) 26m 
eye 
THE RISING SU 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
ce eee 
David talking on the phone said, “It’s not such a 
good time to visit, you know, because we’re mak- 
ing this 600 page book and there are all these 
people going around with words in their heads 
and if they see a new face, they forget the word 
and have to find it again on a little piece of paper.” 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
