Children’s Games in Street and Playground 
Suppose you were trying to replace war. Would you be 
interested in “games in which children may deliberately 
scare each other, ritually hurt each other, take foolish 
risks, promote fights, play ten against one, and yet in 
which they consistently observe their own sense of fair 
play” (dust jacket blurb)? The games are not learned 
from adults but passed on through the generations of 
children. 
This study comes from England, which looks 
to have a much richer game cycle than American kids 
usually experience. A product of ten years’ research, 
the book thoroughly describes the rules of play and the 
popularity of more than a thousand fascinating games. 
Children’s Games in 
Street and Playground 
lona and Peter Opie 
1969; 370 pp. 
$38 postpaid from: 
Oxford University Press 
; 
16-00 Pollitt Drive 
Fair Lawn, NJ 07140 
e 
Kingy 
This fast-moving game has all the qualifications for being 
considered the national game of British schoolboys: 
it 
is indigenous, it is sporting, it has fully evolved rules, 
it is immensely popular (almost every boy in England, 
| 
Scotland, and Wales plays it), and no native of Britain 
appears to have troubled to record it. 
“Kingy”’ is a ball game in which those who are not He 
have the ball hurled at them, without means of retaliation, 
and against ever-increasing odds, an element that obviously 
| 
appeals to the national character. Anyone who is hit 
i 
by the ball straightway joins the He in trying to hit the 
rest of the players. Those who are throwing may not 
run with the ball in their hands, but pursue their quarry 
by passing the ball to each other. Those being thrown at 
] 
may run and dodge as they like, and may also punch the 
ball away from them with their fists. For this purpose 
players sometimes wrap a handkerchief round their hand, 
as “‘fisting’’ the ball can be painful. The game continues 
until all but one have been hit and are “‘out,’’ and this 
player is declared ‘’King.”” When the contestants are 
skilled (and boys of fifteen and sixteen readily play the 
game), the ball gets thrown with considerable force; it 
shoots back and forth across the street or playground, and 
the game can be as exciting to watch as a tennis match. 
As befits a sport in which so much energy is expended, 
the preliminaries are sometimes wonderfully ritualistic. 
| 
At Bishop Auckland, for instance, one person shouts 
“King’’ to start the proceedings, and two others follow 
up by crying “Sidey.’’ The players then form a circle 
round the King, with the two who shouted ‘‘Sidey”’ 
i 
standing on either side of him like heirs-apparent. The 
| 
players making the circle stand with legs apart, each foot 
touching the foot of their neighbour on either side. The 
; 
King picks up the ball and bounces it — or, as they say 
in Bishop Auckland, “‘stounces” it — three times in the 
ring, and then lets it roll. Everyone watches to see whose 
legs it will go through. 
If it does not roll through any- 
body's legs the King picks it up and bounces it again, and 
if his second turn fails he has a third try. If the ball still 
has not passed between anyone's legs, he hands it to the 
first sidey (the ‘‘foggy-sidey”’) who, as necessary, repeats 
the performance — for the moment the ball does pass 
between someone's legs that person is “‘on,’’ and everyone 
runs. At the end of the game whoever becomes King 
takes the place in the centre of the ring to start the next 
game, and the first two people to shout ‘’Sidey” stand 
beside him.... 
The Rules. Although the ways of choosing the chaser 
are numerous, the game itself is played with little varia- 
tion. Reports from more than fifty places have been so 
similar, it is as if a mimeographed sheet of rules was 
carried in every grubby trouser pocket. Such a set of 
rules would read as follows: 
1. The number of players shall be not less than six or 
more than twenty: the best number is about twelve. 
2. The boundaries of the game shall be agreed on before 
the game begins. A flat area of 20 x 20 yards, or a length 
of street of about 20 - 30 yards, depending on the number 
of players, is ample. 
3. One person shall be chosen chaser, and the game shall 
start immediately he is chosen. The chaser shall, however, 
bounce the ball ten times before he throws it at anyone, 
to give the players time to scatter. 
4. The chaser may not run with the ball; but while he 
is the sole chaser he may bounce the ball on the ground 
as he runs. 
5. A player shall be ‘‘out’’ when the ball hits him on the 
body between his neck and knees (or, as may be agreed, 
between his waist and ankles). 
It shall be determined 
beforehand whether a hit shall count if the ball has 
first bounced on the ground or ricocheted off a wall; or 
whether only a direct hit shall count. 
6. As soon as a player is ‘‘out’’ he shall assist the chaser 
in getting the other players out. 
7. When there are two or more chasers they may not 
run with the ball, but may manoeuvre as they wish by 
Passing it to each other. 
8. Players being chased may take what action they like 
to avoid being hit by the ball, including ‘‘fisting”’ it, i.e., 
punching it away with their fist. They may also pick up 
the ball between their fists and chuck it away. 
9. Should a chaser catch the ball when it has been 
“fisted,’’ or touch a player while he is holding the ball 
in his fists, the player shall be “out.” 
10. Should a player kick the ball, or handle it other 
than with his fists, he shall be ‘‘out."’ 
11. Should a player run out of bounds when trying to 
avoid being hit by the ball he shall be “out.” 
12. The last player left in shall be ‘’King,”’ and shall 
officiate at the selection of the next chaser. 
Se ee 
TTT 
Cowstails & Cobras 
/ love this stuff. 
A summer camp | went to had an 
obstacle course against which | would pit myself with 
unending serious glee. 
Then in training as an infantry 
officer | encountered the famous and wonderful group 
problems — get everyone across the water hazard dry 
in ten minutes with only a rope, two poles, and a spare 
tire; staaart now. 
Etc. 
This splendid book has scores of such things — how to 
make and use. Surely no one has to explain why. 
Ingenuity learned by the body sticks. 
Courage too. 
—SB 
Cowstails & Cobras 
(A Guide to Ropes 
Courses, Initiative Games, 
and other 
Adventure Activities) 
Karl Rohnke 
1977, 157 pp. 
$7.25 postpaid from: 
Project Adventure 
P.O. Box 157 
Hamilton, MA 01936 
Two line 
bridge 
Tire 
traverse —) 
L 
Tire Traverse 
Object: To get the entire group and a ‘‘bomb” over a 
series of suspended tires without touching the ground. 
(Devise your own bomb, but it should weigh about 30 
pounds. A metal ammunition box full of rocks makes 
a good bomb.) 
Rules: 
1. The students must proceed from a starting line in front 
of the first swing rope and end at the finishing line past 
the last tire. 
2. No member of the group may step over the start or 
finishing line at any time to help. Verbal help may be 
given at any time. 
3. If an individual touches the ground he must return to 
the starting line and begin again. 
If the bomb touches 
the ground, the entire group must begin again. 
4. The bomb may not be thrown over the finish line. 
5. No knots may be tied. However, a bight in the swing 
rope may be taken. 
6. The available beam may be used in any manner, but 
if it touches the ground anywhere between the start and 
finish lines, the group loses further use of it. 
7. The horizontal support wire may not be used in 
any way. 
8. No other aids may be used. 
9. There is no limit to the number of participants on 
the tires. 
10. Some of the tires may be suspended horizontally to 
add variety to the passage. 
Orienteering 
The word means finding your way with map and compass; 
a good thing to know how to do. Sharpening your skill 
permits confident “‘bushwhacking”’ 
away from the increas- 
ingly crowded trails. Some people make a contest of 
it, which is a good way to gain skill while giving youa 
good excuse for wandering around outdoors. Some make 
a race of it as a true test. 
This book is mainly aimed at 
the racers and is intended to promote orienteering as 
asport. My problem is that | can never remember where 
| left 
my compass. 
The authors don’t mention what to 
do about that, but they cover about everything else. 
(Bengtsson’s excellent Be Expert with Map and Compass 
is reviewed on p. 414.) 
—J. Baldwin 
Orienteering 
(For Sport and Pleasure) 
Hans Bengtsson and 
George Atkinson 
1977; 224 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid from: 
The Stephen Greene Press 
P.O. Box 1000 
Fessenden Road 
Brattleboro, VT 05301 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
ap 
The best way to carry the map is to fold it inside a clear 
plastic pocket of medium-thick poly. The thick plastic 
prevents permanent creases from forming regardless of 
how the map/map case is folded. 
This flexible map case also enables you to use the popular 
and time-saving technique called ‘thumbing.’ This 
is the technique of folding and holding the map so you 
can use your thumb as a continual pointer to your then 
current location. As you move over the land, your thumb 
moves (with you) over the map. 
\n this way, every time 
you look at the map you can fast-focus on your current 
position instead of having to search over the entire map 
area. Thumbing not only saves time during a race but 
also eliminates most chances of parallel errors, i.e., mixing 
up two adjacent (or nearly so) areas with basically the 
same main features. 
With this technique and some practice you should be 
able to become quite proficient at running and map 
reading simultaneously. 
a eS 
ES 
ES 
TS 
Indian Crafts and Lore 
If Boy Scouts and Germans make better Indian gear than 
most Indians (it’s true: ask at any pow-wow), this book 
may be why. Thorough research and splendid illustration 
trip you right on in. Good book. 
—SB 
Indian Crafts and Lore 
W. Ben Hunt 
1954, 1976; 104 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid from: 
Golden Press 
Western Publishing Co. 
1220 Mound Avenue 
Racine, WI 53404 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Grey Owl Indian Craft Supplies 
Indian outfit gear, materials, and kits. Suit up, sneak off 
the reservation, help America start over. 
—SB 
$1 from: 
Indian Craft Company 
113-15 Springfield Blvd. 
Queens Village, NY 
11429 
Grey Owl Indian 
Craft Supplies 
Catalog 
tt 
hi 
