Mount Analogue 
The Once and Future King 
The most compelling mystical journey in print. The more 
so because it is unfinished, interrupted in the middle of 
a sentence by the author's death. 
The story is of the 
theoretical proof of the existence of the impossibly 
difficult, seldom-glimpsed mystical mountain looming 
delicately above and beyond familiar ranges, the gathering 
of the expedition team, the finding, the preparation, 
the trek into and above the lower slopes. 
| can think 
of no better book to end with a comma. 
—SB 
Mount Analogue 
(A Novel of Symbolically 
Authentic Non-Euclidean 
Adventures in 
Mountain Climbing) 
René Daumal 
1952, 1960; 120 pp. 
$2.50 postpaid from: 
Penguin Books 
299 Murray Hill Parkway 
East Rutherford, 
NJ 07073 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
“Pierre Sogol, Professor of Mountaineering. 
Lessons 
Thursday and Sunday, from 7 to 11 A.M. Means of 
access: Go out of the window, take a left turn, scale a 
chimney onto the cornice, climb a crumbling schist slope, 
follow the ridge from north to south, avoiding several 
gendarmes, and enter by the skylight on the east slope.” 
! willingly submitted to these fantasies, even though the 
stairs went on up to the sixth floor. The “‘turn’’ was 
a narrow ledge along the wall, the “chimney” a dark 
recess that needed only to be closed by the construction 
of an adjoining building to be called a court, the “schist 
slope” a dilapidated slate roof, and the ‘’faults’’ some 
mitered and peaked chimneys. 
| entered through the 
skylight and found myself face to face with the man 
himself. 
Fairly tall, lean, and vigorous, with a heavy 
black moustache and wavy hair, he had the tranquility 
of a caged panther biding his time. 
One of the most popular story books around (Camelot, 
good play, so-so movie), this four-volumes-in-one tragedy 
of King Arthur is more about learning than any other 
fiction | can think of. Young Arthur learns the ways of 
the wide world by being magicked into the personae of 
various animals by Merlyn —a 
fish, a hawk, an ant, and 
grandest of all, a migrating goose. “Where did T.H. White 
get that?” Gregory Bateson kept asking, certain that it 
was borrowed from some tribe or other. 
Best of all, the 
learning doesn’t stop with being crowned or being mar- 
ried, as most stories conveniently do. 
The hard lessons of 
full maturity, even of civilization itself growing up, are 
the simultaneous working and the burden of the tragedy. 
Twice in the reading of The Once and Future King, end 
of the first book and end of the fourth, | have dripped 
salt tears and been unable to go on reading aloud. No 
other book has managed that. 
—SB 
There is found here, rarely on the lower slopes and more 
frequently as one ascends, a clear and extremely hard 
stone, spherical and of variable size. 
It is a true crystal 
and — an extraordinary instance entirely unknown 
elsewhere on this planet — a curved crystal. 
In the French 
spoken in Port 0’ Monkeys, this stone is called peradam. 
Ivan Lapse is still puzzled by the formation and the root 
meaning of the word. 
It may mean, as he sees it, “harder 
than diamond,” as is very much the case, or else ‘father 
of diamond.’’ And some say that diamond is in reality 
the product of the disintegration of peradam by a sort of 
squaring of the circle or, more exactly, cubing of the 
sphere. Or else the word may mean ‘‘Adam’s stone”’ 
and have had some secret and profound complicity with 
the original nature of man. This stone is so perfectly 
transparent and its index of refraction so close to that 
of air in spite of the crystals great density that the 
inexperienced eye barely perceives it. But to any person 
who seeks it with sincerity and out of true need it reveals 
itself by a brilliant sparkle like that of a dewdrop. 
Peradam is the only substance, the only material thing, 
whose value is recognized by the guides of Mount 
Analogue. Therefore it remains the basis and standard 
of all currency, like gold in many countries. 
LEARNING © 
FOR NOW 593 
The Once and 
Future King 
T.H. White 
1940; 639 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid from: 
Berkeley Publishing 
Company 
390 Murray Hill Parkway 
East Rutherford, 
NJ 07073 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
“Come, sword,’ he said. “| must cry your mercy and 
take you for a better cause. 
“This is extraordinary,’’ said the Wart. 
“I feel strange 
when | have hold of this sword, and | notice everything 
much more clearly. 
Look at the beautiful gargoyles 
of the church, and of the monastery which it belongs 
to. See how splendidly all the famous banners in the 
aisle are waving. How nobly that yew holds up the red 
flakes of its timbers to worship God. How clean the 
snow is. | can smell something like fetherfew and sweet 
briar — and is it music tnat | hear?” 
It was music, whether of pan-pipes or of recorders, 
and the light in the churchyard was so clear, without 
being dazzling, that one could have picked a pin out 
twenty yards away. 
“There is something in this place,”’ said the Wart. 
“ There 
are people. Oh, people, what do you want?” 
Nobody answered him, but the music was loud and 
the light beautiful. 
“People,” cried the Wart, “‘| must take this sword. 
It 
is not for me, but for Kay. 
| will bring it back.” 
There was still no answer, and Wart turned back to the 
anvil. He saw the golden letters, which he did not read, 
and the jewels on the pommel, flashing in the lovely light. 
“Come, sword,” said the Wart. 
The | Ching 
Gregory Bateson remarked once to his secretary, Judy 
Van Slooten, “I am going to build a church some day. 
/t will have a holy of holies and a holy of holies of holies, 
and in that ultimate box will be a random number table.” 
Check Bateson’s Mind and Nature (reviewed on p. 28). 
All originality, he says, whether in evolution or in human 
learning, comes from “raids on the random.” 
The ancient Chinese Taoists who made this oracle may 
have had a similar idea, or they may have stumbled on 
it or co-evolved into it, but obviously it served them. 
And it serves us. 
It profoundly served the generation 
that emitted the original Whole Earth Catalog. Ending 
with this review is a piece of homage to that time and 
The | Ching 
(Or Book of Changes) 
Richard Wilhelm 
and Cary F. Baynes, 
Translators 
1950; 740 pp. 
$12.50 postpaid from: 
Princeton University Press 
Princeton, NJ 08540 
yt 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
above 
HII II 
HOLDING TOGETHER brings good fortune. 
8. Pi / Holding Together | Union | 
K’AN 
THE ABYSMAL, WATER 
below 
K’UN 
THE RECEPTIVE, EARTH 
The waters on the surface of the earth flow together wherever 
they can, as for example in the ocean, where all the rivers come 
together. Symbolically this connotes holding together and the 
laws that regulate it. The same idea is suggested by the fact that 
all the lines of the hexagram except the fifth, the place of the 
ruler, are yielding. The yielding lines hold together because 
they are influenced by a man of strong will in the leading 
position, 
a man who is their center of union. Moreover, this 
strong and guiding personality in turn holds together with 
the others, finding in them the complement of his own nature. 
THE JUDGMENT 
those people, both passing rapidly, both renembered 
too easily for superficial and dismissable things rather 
than for the real risks taken with real clarity in the 
face of overwhelming opposition. 
Everyone from then has | Ching stories. Like the hippie 
who hid in his room for months, finally worked up the 
courage to go out, and asked the Ching how to proceed. 
“Retreat, 
’ said the Ching. He threw it out the window. 
Clink clink go the tossed pennies. How about a statement 
for the end of The Next Whole Earth Catalog ancient 
random number table... Hm, 8 (Holding Together) 
changing in the fourth place to 45 (Gathering Together). 
—SB 
45. Tsui / Gathering Together {Massing | 
above 
TUI 
THE JOYOUS, LAKE 
below 
X’UN 
THE RECEPTIVE, EARTH 
This hexagram is related in form and meaning to Pi, HOLD- 
ING TOGETHER (8). In the latter, water is over the earth; here 
a lake is over the earth. But since the lake is a place where 
Inquire of the oracle once again 
Whether you possess sublimity, constancy, and 
perseverance, 
Then there is no blame. 
Those who are uncertain gradually join. 
Whoever comes too late 
Meets with misfortune. 
ial 
Ww 
ceNis, 
swe) 
Seu 
e 
A.e..0 
6 0 9 «0 
@ 
water collects, the idea of gathering together is even more 
strongly expressed here than in the other hexagram. The same 
become so integrated in the spiritual life of the family that it 
cannot be dispersed or dissolved. 
THE JUDGMENT 
GATHERING TOGETHER. Success. 
The king approaches his temple. 
It furthers one to see the great man. 
This brings success. Perseverance furthers. 
To bring great offerings creates good fortune. 
It furthers one to undertake something. 
a e406 em) Oke 6 Ue 
SO 5b ete. o.6 © 
6 Gest 
@ Se 
6he © pe. @ 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
Fat 
When we get there we'll be able to look at the sun 
: 
all day and never squint. The sun will be no 
dimmer but we'll be shining back. 
