“WHOLE SYSTEMS 
it 
NATURAL HISTORY 
oa 
>... 
- 
<x 
ny 
Natural History Magazine 
/ use it two ways: The monthly column “This View of 
Life’ by Stephen Jay Gould, who teaches Biology, 
Geology and History of Science at Harvard, regularly 
contributes to (or at least soundly reaffirms) my under- 
standing of how the world works. He explains funda- 
mental issues clearly and always sets them against a 
background of why anyone ever thought differently. 
Second, it is written and edited in such a way that my 
children (ages 10 and 12) seem to get as much out of it 
as we do. /t is one of the few publications we‘ve found 
that has this quality. A good magazine at a good price 
from a great institution. 
—George Putz 
Natural History 
Alan Ternes, Editor 
$15 /year (12 issues) 
from: 
Natural History 
Membership Services 
Box 6000 
Des Moines, |A 50340 
e 
As one male toad ducked under Ammonita and she 
touched him with a foot, | marveled at the interaction 
between these two dissimilar creatures. 
In its association 
with tarantulas, the narrow-mouthed toad has evolved an 
effective defense against the pressures of predation. The 
tarantula’s fierce defensive behavior excludes most of 
those predators of a size dangerous to the diminutive 
toad, and the microhabitat of the burrow and overlying 
rock attracts small insects, providing a ready source of 
prey for the narrow-mouthed toads. And, with their 
appetite for ants, several toads per burrow can control 
these voracious invaders, which might otherwise harass 
adult tarantulas and consume eggs and spiderlings. 
At the approach of a western ribbon snake, a narrow- 
mouthed toad scuttles toward the safety of a female 
giant tarantula. 
Instead of a toad, the snake will get a 
faceful of spider feet and fangs. 
The observed equality of males and females, in the face 
of obvious advantages for female predominance if evolu- 
tion worked upon groups, stands as one of our most 
elegant demonstrations that Darwin was right — natural 
selection works by the struggle of individuals to maximize 
their own reproductive success. The Darwinian argument 
was first framed by the great British mathematical biolo- 
gist R.A. Fisher. Suppose, Fisher argued, that either sex 
began to predominate. 
Let us say, for example, that 
fewer males than females are born. Males now begin to 
leave more offspring than females since their opportuni- 
ties for mating increase as they become rarer — that is, 
they impregnate more than one female on average. Thus, 
if any genetic factors influence the relative proportion of 
males born to a parent (and such factors do exist), then 
parents with a genetic inclination to produce males will 
gain a Darwinian advantage — they will produce more 
than an average number of grandchildren thanks to the 
superior reproductive success of their predominantly male 
offspring. Thus, genes that favor the producticn of males 
will spread and male births will rise in frequency. But 
this advantage for males fades out as male births increase 
and it disappears entirely when males equal females in 
number. Since the same argument works in reverse to 
favor female births when females are rare, the sex ratio 
is driven by Darwinian processes to its equilibrium value 
of one to one. 
—Stephen Jay Gould 
The Wilderness World of John Muir 
/f you love running brooks and craggy cliffs, you'll love 
John Muir. 
If you love lush, energy-filled, exciting writ- 
ing, you'll love John Muir. 
If you love adventure and 
vision quests, biographies of brave humans, he’s just your 
man. A touchstone into the life of America’s wildest 
human, watershed wizard, political savior, etc., etc., etc. 
—Peter Warshall 
The Wilderness World 
of John Muir 
Edwin Way Teale, Editor 
1954; 332 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid from: 
Houghton-Mifflin 
Wayside Road 
Burlington, MA 01803 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The waterfalls of the Sierra are frequented by only one 
bird — the ouzel or water thrush (Cinc/us Mexicanus, 
Sw.). He is a singularly joyous and lovable little fellow, 
about the size of a robin, clad in a plain waterproof suit 
of bluish gray, with a tinge of chocolate on the head and 
shoulders. 
In form he is about as smoothly plump and 
compact as a pebble that had been whirled in a pot-hole, 
the flowing contour of his body being interrupted only 
by his strong feet and bill, the crisp wing-tips; and the 
up-slanted wren-like tail. 
e 
Only by going alone in silence, without baggage, can one 
truly get into the heart of the wilderness. All other travel 
is mere dust and hotels and baggage and chatter. 
e 
| have a low opinion of books; they are but piles of stones 
set up to show coming travelers where other minds have 
been, or at best signal smokes to call attention. Cadmus 
and all the other inventors of letters receive a thousand- 
fold more credit than they deserve. No amount of word- 
making will ever make a single soul to know these moun- 
tains. As well seek to warm the naked and frost-bitten 
by lectures on caloric and pictures of flame. One day's 
exposure to mountains is better than cartloads of books. 
See how willingly Nature poses herself upon photog- 
rapher’s plates. No earthly chemicals are so sensitive as 
those of the human soul. All that is required is exposure, 
and purity of material. “The pure in heart shall see God!’ 
A Species of Eternity 
When Euro-Americans first hit the shores of Turtle Island, 
they saw this wilderness as alien — full of untamiliar 
critters and non-useful plants. A small handful of men 
and women fell in love with North America — overjoyed 
with the mystery of new species lurking in streams and 
bushes. 
This is their story. 
The first half-crazed, half- 
scientist, half-artist, totally high naturalists in the 
“New World.” 
This is the story of my personal lineage of teachers of 
the 18th and early 19th centuries. 
Their kinship to each 
other and to the broadleaf wood/ands has never been 
more humorously and accurately told. Many fine color 
reproductions of early drawings and engravings. 
—Peter Warshall 
A Species of Eternity 
Joseph Kastner 
1977; 350 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
E.P. Dutton 
2 Park Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
That night Audubon heard a great uproar from the 
naturalist’s room “I opened his door and saw him running 
about naked in pursuit of bats. He had my favorite violin 
by the handle and proceeded to bash it against the wall in 
an attempt to kill the winged animals. He begged me to 
procure a bat for him — ‘a new species.’ | took the 
bow of my battered Cremona violin, and soon got 
specimens enough.”’ 
At Rafinesque’s request, Audubon took him out into 
“one of those thickets or brakes in which the cane grows 
from twelve to thirty feet in height. A fallen tree ob- 
structed our passage. We were about to go round it when 
out of the center of the tangled mass of branches sprang 
a bear with such force and snuffing the air in so frightful 
a way that Rafinesque was terrified. 
In his haste to 
escape he fell and was pinioned between the stalks. 
Despite his thorough fright, | could not refrain from 
laughing at the ridiculous exhibition he made. The way 
became more and more tangled. The thunder began to 
rumble. 
Heavy rain drenched us. 
Briars had scratched us, 
nettles stung us. Rafinesque threw away all his plants, 
emptied his pockets of fungi, lichens and mosses. 
| led 
him first one way, then another until | myself, though 
well acquainted with the brake, was all but lost in it. | 
kept him stumbling and crawling until long after midday.” 
Leading his guest through the canebrakes was cruel enough 
but even crueler was a scientific hoax Audubon played on 
him, describing and drawing a dozen local fish which 
never existed except in his own tall tales. Taking Audubon 
at his word, Rafinesque included ten of Audubon’s imag- 
ined creatures in his pioneering work on western fishes. 
“The Devil-Jack Diamond fish (Litholepsis admantinus) 
[Rafinesque wrote] , the wonder of the Ohio. | have seen 
it but only at a distance and have been shown some of its 
singular scales. Wonderful stories are related concerning 
this fish but I have principally relied upon the description 
and figures given me by Mr. Audobon. 
Its length is 4 to 
10 feet. The whole body is covered with large stone 
scales half an inch to one inch in diameter. They strike 
fire with steel! and are ballproof!”’ 
It_ was perhaps inexcusable for Audubon to carry 
a joke 
so far. It was certainly inexcusable for a naturalist like 
Rafinesque to be gulled by such stuff. He was, after all, 
one of the most widely experienced scientists in America. 
“In knowledge,”” he wrote of himself, “I have been a 
botanist, naturalist, geologist, geographer, historian, poet, 
philosopher, economist, philanthropist. By profession, a 
traveler, merchant, draftsman, architect, engineer, author, 
editor. 
| hardly know what | may not become as yet.” 
One of the most traveled men of his times, he covered 
“over 25,000 miles, half by sea, half by land. One-fourth 
pedestrian journeys. 
. 
. by mules, asses, litters, sedan 
chairs, chaises, men’s backs, feluccas, tartans, boats, arks, 
scows, nearly all the possible manners except by camel 
and in balloons.” 
First Audubon 
bird painting 
published was 
female grackle 
in rear of this 
plate. 
lronic- 
ally it appeared 
in the Orni-_ 
thology of his 
great rival, 
Alexander 
Wilson. 
Basic Ecology 
About as basic as you can get. So basic that | think this 
book jis either for children or a solid reminder to special- 
ists that have lost the forest for the trees. 
If you're tired 
of just talking “ecology” and “environment” and want 
to be introduced to the science, this is the easiest and 
simplest book. 
—Peter Warshal! 
Basic Ecology 
Ralph and Mildred 
Buchsbaum 
1957, 195 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
The Boxwood Press 
183 Ocean View Blvd. 
Pacific Grove, CA 93950 
Hermit crab, Eupagurus, bernhardus, has accepted a glass 
model of a snail shell for its house. This reveals the 
behavior of its annelid commensal (Nereis fucata), which 
here at rest occupies the smallest coils of the shell away 
from its host. As soon as the crab begins to eat, the 
commensal comes to the opening of the shell and 
snatches a morsel from its host. 
