POLITICS © 
NUCLEAR WAR 
The Effects of Nuclear War 
The latest word, and a fine job of it. This 1979 report 
was prepared by the Office of Technology Assessment for 
the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations. 
Unlike 
many such government documents, it is imaginatively 
presented. 
It seems we know quite a lot by now about 
the effects of nuclear explosions on human affairs. And 
while much is guessed at about the broad effects of a 
general nuclear war, the authors admit that mostly they 
don’t know. 
/ figure that real prevention of real nuclear war will 
require a lot of personal thinking about the unthinkable 
and knowing as-much as possible about the unknowable. 
It is an abstract evil — nuclear war — dissolvable not by 
counter abstraction but by sane attention to gritty detail. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Shannon Bush] 
The Effects of 
== 
Nuclear War 
ee, 
Office of 
i 
Technology Assessment 
1979; 151 pp. 
No. 052-003-00668-5 
$4.75 postpaid from: 
Superintendent 
of Documents 
U.S. Government 
Printing Office 
Washington, DC 20402 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
The entire United States has facilities to treat 1000 or 
2000 severe burn cases; a single nuclear weapon could 
produce more than 10,000. 
Approximate footprint coverage of Soviet attack. 
The combined populations of Charlottesville and Albe- 
marle County rose to 150,000 in the 7 days after the 
nuclear attack. Slowly, hostility and resentment wedged 
a gap between residents and refugees who attempted to 
join the group shelters. The refugees, still in a daze from 
their experience, believed that they had priority rights 
after all they had suffered. The local residents viewed the 
outsiders as a threat to their own survival, particularly 
as the extent of the war damage was becoming evident. 
(For anti-nuclear reactor information, see No Nuclear 
News p. 500.) 
—SB 
f| 
The patient’s skin is 
burned in a pattern 
corresponding to the 
dark portions of a 
kimono worn at the 
time of the explosion. 
! was M.C. in D.C. for the March on Washington/No Nukes 
Nukebuster 
rally April 26th, 1980. About 40,000 demonstrators 
braved a torrential downpour to witness 26 speakers and 
13 musical acts. 
It was an incredible achievement to 
run a full sound stage under water. 
Your cover must be 
absolute or musicians will fry like eggs. A lot of the 
credit goes to the Farm folks in Tennessee. 
Stephen 
Gaskin was one of the speakers and played drums for 
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the new farm band. 
Those farmers also worked security and helped coordinate. 
Meanwhile their kids were running from trailer to trailer 
dosing rock and rollers with tofu, except for the few who 
toured the Smithsonian (right across the street) with a 
Nukebuster! The Nukebuster is a sophisticated geiger 
counter that continually detects the ambient level of 
radiation. 
These farm kids aimed that sucker at the 
uranium sample in the geology wing and the pointers 
damn near jumped off the dial. Perhaps a citizen’s arrest? 
Nukebuster 
—Wavy Gravy 
eae 
ALPHA 
$280 plus shipping 
WINDOW 
MODE SWITCI 
Information 
METER \ 
free from: 
Solar Electronics 
156 Drakes Lane 
Summertown, TN 38483 
Nukebuster Gamma, Beta, 
Alpha with Meter @ $280.00 
BU1 
- Battery pack attach- 
ment for intermittent 
portable use @ $24.95 
CA2 - Cigarette Lighter 
MODE SWITCH 
adapter for plugging in 
NORMAL & AUDIO. 
x10 
two units @ $9.95 
METER LIGHTS UP 
ae maith 
5) 
WP-110V - Adapter for home 
ALARM GOES OFF 
use; wood pedestal AC adapter 
oe 
@ $24.95 
Fh Gia 
eee Star 
eo 
COUNT LIGHT 
The Dangers of Nuclear War 
American activists are in orderly transition from work on 
curbing just nuclear energy to the harder and far more 
momentous task of curbing nuclear weapons. Some of 
the resistance techniques will transfer and some won't. 
With nuclear reactors, what to stop and how to stop it was 
a relative known. 
With nuclear weapons what to stop is 
less well known, and how to stop it is an utter unknown. 
Therefore instead of jumping to ideological conclusions a 
more effective path for the movement for now may be to 
raise questions and court ideas — encourage brainstorming 
on a world-wide scale. 
If all parties are welcomed to that 
discussion, a fair step toward resolution may already have 
been taken. 
The critical ingredient is information. 
Political groups out 
of power fall into sectarian squabbling because their 
political life is restricted to theory and conflicting asser- 
tions. Parties in power are somewhat more convergent 
because the realities of daily responsibility force them to 
be; theory is secondary. 
The reason Dan Ellsberg is such 
a potent anti-nuclear spokesman is because he marshals 
his facts as if he were still Establishment. 
/ don’t know the best texts for a budding activist against 
nuclear weapons. 
| grabbed this one out of the river of 
books flowing by my desk. 
It’s the papers from a Pug- 
wash Symposium held in 1976 and 1977 (the 30th of 
that noble lineage). Damn near every page changes my 
mind somewhat, and | thought | had my mind made up 
on this subject. 
—SB 
The Dangers of 
Nuclear War 
Franklyn Griffiths and 
John C. Polanyi, Editors 
1979; 197 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid from: 
University of 
Toronto Press 
33 East Tupper Street 
Buffalo, NY 14203 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
In effect, acute super-power crisis is now and will doubt- 
less remain a precondition for the occurrence of general 
war. To inquire into the likelihood of general war is 
therefore to consider the likelihood and character of 
super-power crises — the potential they present for mis- 
calculation, for inadequate control of national strategic 
forces, and for mutual loss of control over escalation of 
the crisis itself. John Steinbruner’s account of the vagrant 
strategic anti-submarine warfare operations of the U.S. 
Navy during the Cuban missile crisis of 1962 shows just 
how things might begin to go wrong. And this was at a 
time when political leaders sought to exercise intense 
political control over military forces far less complex and 
elaborate than exist today. 
—Franklyn Griffiths 
e 
Many millions who die in the aftermath of a massive 
nuclear exchange will die most horribly in a society that 
can no longer offer the comforts of warmth, shelter, 
food, uncontaminated water, and medication. The mil- 
lions of injured who survive in a condition of reduced 
health (blinded, burnt, maimed, or weakened by the 
effects of radiation) will provide a fertile ground for 
plagues of contagious disease. Those fortunate enough to 
escape the war and its aftermath without visible scars will 
live in fear that their long-term health may have been 
impaired, their environment poisoned, and their future 
progeny imperilled for generations to come. The sense 
of demoralization, and its consequences for the orderly 
process of reconstruction, defy imagination. No parallels 
can be drawn (though sometimes they are) with the 
deaths and carnage of previous wars. The compression 
into a matter of hours of events more terrible than those 
that took place in other times over a period of years will 
shred the fabric of society rather than — as previously 
— severely strain it. 
—John C. Polanyi 
And the women of these great warriors, 
The Battle 
by Peter Blue Cloud 
They were so angry that they decided 
to have a battle. So terrible was their 
anger that they would not wait, but 
declared that the fight must be fought 
now, immediately, on this very spot. Fox 
blamed what he considered to be the 
crime on Badger. Badger in turn was all 
for placing the blame on Cougar. 
Jackrabbit hopped in agitation, calling 
for Mole and for Mouse, and for Deer and 
Bear to fetch their sharpest arrows and 
their heaviest warclubs. 
By the time Coyote arrived the sides 
had already been chosen, the battle lines 
formed, and the smell of hate and future 
bloodshed permeated the very air. 
He, Coyote, listened to all the threats 
and promises of broken bodies to be. He 
walked out and stood between the ene- 
mies, declaring very solemnly,.and in a 
very soft voice: 
“No, I cannot allow this great fight to 
happen just yet. There has been no battle- 
preparation dance. There has been no 
pipe of cleansing. No, the Creation does 
not wish this battle to take place just yet.” 
And some say it was Bear, but strangely, 
no one actually remembers just who it 
was. Bear denied the accusation, but some- 
one ran from one of the lines and struck 
Coyote dead! 
; 
And Coyote fell and indeed lay there, 
very dead. And the cry for immediate 
battle resumed, and the menacing cries 
for blood again filled the air, 
when, from 
the oppositeend of the battle lines, Coyote 
again stepped out, dancing and brandishing 
a huge club. 
He ran to his dead self and 
struck a tremendous blow upon the body, 
then turned to face the creatures, shouting: 
“Who killed this person? Who struck him 
down before I did? Was that person puri- 
fied? Did he sweat himself and think of 
the children? Did he dance to assure that 
the life cycle continue?” 
“Enough talking!” someone shouted 
and ran to Coyote and struck him dead. 
And 
again, much later, no one remembered 
who or what struck the blow which killed 
Coyote for:the second time. 
Then from the left hand side of center, 
Coyote ran out swinging a great club and 
struck at his fallen selves until all that 
remained were two masses of fur and 
blood and broken bones and twisted sinew. 
Then Coyote danced the dance of 
victory over his own fallen selves, pledging 
their death to his own great anger, Oh, he 
danced, he really danced. 
“Now then,” said Porcupine, “how is 
it that this one who dances the victory in 
battle dance, when it was not himself who 
killed himselves? Is it within reason for 
him to claim this doubtful victory?” 
“Tf I did not kill these two, then who 
did kill them?” demanded Coyote. “Let 
him step forward to claim these deaths, 
that I may kill him too in revenge.” 
When no one stepped forward, Coyote 
declared, motioning to his dead selves, 
“Then obviously, these kills are mine!” 
“It seems to me,” began Elk, who was 
interrupted by Skunk, who also began, 
“It’s quite obvious to me that . 
. .” “Now 
hold on a moment,” said Badger. And 
Coyote wheeled on Badger, shouting, 
“Hah! Don’t you know that you can’t 
hold onto a moment, let alone a minute?” 
And so they argued, all the animal 
creatures, about the finer points of who 
might or might not claim a kill. 
at the urging of Coyote, prepared a great 
feast, so that these mighty warrior-debators 
might continue on full stomachs. 
And soon, the recent anger was set 
aside for the more important battle of 
words leading to reason. 
And by this time, everyone having 
forgotten all about Coyote, 
he, Coyote, 
took his fallen selves by their tails and 
dragged them away uphill. 
Then he took a good hot sweat bath 
and then sang a song of renewal known 
only to himself, and soon his other selves 
revived. ‘“‘Now,” said one of them, ‘that’s 
what I’d call making your point the hard 
way. You know, it really hurt when you 
killed me.” 
“Yes,” said the other self, 
standing up and stretching, “the next time 
this happens, don’t forget it’ll be your 
turn to be killed.” 
“Hey, maybe this won’t ever happen 
again, huh?” 
“Oh, it will happen again.” 
Coyote said, “Yes, it always seems to 
happen again.” 
Then he merged into himselves and 
walked away, far away. 
= 
