LAND USE 
RODALE 
Organic Gardening Magazine 
The unending popularity of this magazine may be due to 
its being written largely by readers sharing their experi- 
ences with plants. 
It is folk-science and it is becoming 
ever more sophisticated. 
—Rosemary Menninger 
Organic Gardening 
Robert Rodale, Editor 
$10 /year (12 issues) 
postpaid from: 
Rodale Press 
33 East Minor Street 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
More than once I've found myself on my back in the 
garden dirt, exhausted, imagining that the rivulets of hot 
sweat pouring off my face and chest are ice cold, and too 
weary to brush away the gnats that finally (ultimate gnat 
glee) bzz at will in my eyelashes. At such times | feel 
great peace, spent in a good cause. Once | caught myself 
saying, ‘This is fair dinkum.” 
Neither J.!. Rodale or Rachel Carson are still around, but history has proved them both right, and what 
was once outlandish is now the mainstream. So the wheel turns. 
J.1.’s son Robert is continuing the 
good effort with distinction. 
If Rodale is an empire — Organic Gardening, Prevention (p. 322), and 
The New Farm (p. 727) are three of their magazines; they publish a whole library of books, they have 
an experimental farm in Pennsylvania that tackles a lot of research problems the USDA should do but 
won’t — then | wish we had more like them. 
The books and magazines on this page are small sample of what Rodale has available; write for their 
publication list to see it all. 
Queer phrase to be served up by my mind. 
| hadn’t 
used it in years. 
Learned it from an Australian soldier on 
a bus ride when | was 15. He said, ‘In Australia, 
we say 
fair dinkum for okay. 
It means something's all right.” 
Years later | spotted the phrase, “Vere dignum” ina 
Latin prayerbook, 
It means, “Fitting indeed.” 
Fair 
dinkum is obviously an anglicized, latter-day version of 
vere dignum. 
Pretty neat trick for the mind to come up 
with that phrase. Surprised me. 
HERE ARE SOME important steps you can take to help 
preserve germ plasm resources: 
1. Save your own open-pollinated variety seeds from one 
growing season to the next. 
2. Maintain a special germ plasm conservation plot within 
your garden by planting heirloom varieties along with 
the latest vegetable selections. 
3. Grow at least one new vegetable variety each year. 
Diversity is good for the diet as well as for the garden. 
4. Spread your seed orders among more firms. Purchase 
seeds from alternative, smaller seed suppliers, as well as 
from big-name suppliers. You'll discover an exciting 
array of new vegetables you can enjoy. 
5. Write your Representative and Senator and tell them 
how you feel about the Plant Variety Protection Act and 
H.R. 999 and S.B. 23. Ask them to keep you informed of 
any new developments in the pending legislation. 
® 
“Always keep your tool handles in good shape,” they said. 
OME PEOPLE IN THE ORGANIC MOVEMENT today think of Rodale as an empire. They tend 
to forget all those years when J.!. Rodale ran a lonely outpost of common sense and got 
laughed at by the agricultural establishment for his trouble. 
| remember reading the Time 
magazine review of Rachel Carson’s Silent Spring when it came out — a couple of quick, acerbic para- 
graphs and the reviewer had dismissed her as a little old lady quibbling about things the real world had 
neither the time nor the obligation to consider seriously. 
—Richard Nilsen 
‘Never leave a shovel or a'pick out in the weather, where 
it can get rained on.’ 
In those days few people used work 
gloves. Even calloused hands soon became sore and 
blistered from a shovel handle that was rough and splintered 
from exposure to the weather. A good hickory handle, 
used often and kept dry, had a finish that was smooth and 
even shiny. The open wounds on my tender hands 
imprinted that lesson clearly on my mind. 
“Work to arhythm,” | was told. ‘Don’t jerk around or 
rush. And take rests. 
Lean on your shovel once in a 
while, like we do.”” There was a lot of snide joking in 
those days about WPA men who spent their days leaning on 
shovels at the government's expense, but | soon found 
that regular rest was an essential part of all-day digging. 
lf you've ever tried to dig steadily for a few hours, you 
know how essential rest periods are. 
Over a million 
wooden pallets 
are thrown away 
each year. You 
can find them in 
most towns for 
free, and they 
make durable 
compost gins. 
The Basic Book of Organic Gardening 
More gardening know-how for less buck than anything else 
on the market. 
If you‘re thinking of growing vegetables 
to save money — a worthy reason — this book will meet 
your frame of mind. 
—SB 
The Basic Book of 
Organic Gardening 
Robert Rodale, Editor 
1971; 377 pp. 
$2.25 postpaid from: 
Ballantine Books 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
My father first used the word organic to describe the 
natural method of gardening and farming, mainly because 
compost, humus and the organic fraction of the soil were 
emphasized so strongly. However, even in 1942, when 
Organic Gardening and Farming was born, J.1. Rodale 
saw that this method was more than just a way to hus- 
band the soil and grow plants and animals. He proclaimed 
that to be organic was to know and to understand the 
lessons of nature in all ways, and to use that knowledge 
to evaluate all of the “blessings” of science and technology. 
What good was it, he thought, to grow food without 
using chemical fertilizers or pesticides and then to process 
that food so that its content of vitamins and minerals 
would be depleted seriously? 
In fact, not caring whether 
he was called an extremist or a crackpot, J.!. Rodale 
created what might now be called a strict construction- 
The Encyclopedia of Organic Gardening 
Rodale’s behemoth (1236 pages), new (1978 revision), 
comprehensive (2000-plus topics covered) one-volume 
reference to answer every organic gardening question that 
you can pose alphabetically. 
—SB 
e 
Charcoal 
A black, porous form of carbon, charcoal is prepared 
from vegetable or animal substances, usually by charring 
wood in a kiln from which air is excluded. 
Pieces of charcoal are often recommended as additions to 
potting soils, as they improve drainage. 
Charcoal, and the ash left from burning charcoal in a 
stove or barbecue, contains valuable minerals and can be 
an excellent source of plant nutrients. Charcoal chunks 
make an unusual-appearing mulch in an ornamental garden. 
mE? 
To root hardwood cuttings, tie them in bundles and store 
them at 45°F. (7.22°C.) in a rooting medium of sand or 
peat moss. 
ist interpretation of natural life under the banner 
of organiculture. 
If it is synthetic avoid it, he said. 
If it goes through a 
factory, examine it with special care. 
Follow the dictates 
of the cycle of life when growing things, he advised , 
and 
you will be blessed with foods of surpassing taste and 
quality that are less troubled by insects or disease. 
e 
There are 7 major sources of organic fertilizers, mulches 
and conditioners available in such profusion that the 
categories overlap — what you can’t get in one, you can 
obtain in another. 
If animal manures are in short supply 
in your area, what about the blood meals, tankage, and 
fish scrap? 
If you can’t get them, what about castor 
pomace, spent hops, cottonseed and soybean meal — all 
high in nitrogen? But the organic gardener is resourceful 
(he’s got to be) and what he can’t buy at the store or 
get from his local municipal composting plant or sawmill, 
he makes out of crop residues plus the contents of his 
garbage pail. Here are his almost never failing sources 
of supply: 
1. Animal manures; cattle, livestock, poultry, rabbits. 
2. Animal tankage; blood meal, dried blood, fish scrap. 
3. Vegetative manures; the various bean and seed meals, 
spent hops, castor pomace. 
4. Minerals; rock phosphate, colloidal phosphate, granite 
dust, greensand. 
5. Compost; municipal, commercial and homemade. 
6. Soil conditioners and mulches; \eaves, hay, straw, crop 
residues, most vegetable fibrous materials, including 
wood chips and sawdust. 
7. Large-scale, commercial organic fertilizers, mulches 
and soil conditioners. 
The Encyclopedia of 
Organic Gardening 
Staff of Organic 
Gardening Magazine 
1959, 1978; 1236 pp. 
$21.95 postpaid from: 
Rodale Books 
33 East Minor Street 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Garden Way 
Noting Richard’s Rodale intro (above) there in fact is 
another such empire. Built on Lyman Wood's phenomenal 
mailorder success with Troy-bilt Rototillers (p. 127) and 
the Garden Way Cart (p. 131), Garden Way has a whole 
line of books, tools, periodicals and services for the organic 
way of life. As with Rodale, these are customarily of very 
high quality. 
—SB 
Garden Way 
Catalog 
free from: 
Garden Way Publishing 
Charlotte, VT 05445 
a 
Gardens For All 
This 5,000 member organization began in 1972 as a 
spin-off from Garden Way. They publish low-cost basic 
gardening information, and are helping to popularize the 
idea of edible landscapes for suburban houses. 
The 
Gardens for All News keeps track of the growth of com- 
munity and institutional gardens all around the country. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Gardens for All 
(The National Association 
of Gardening News) 
$10 /year (4 issues; 
includes membership) 
postpaid from: 
Gardens for All 
180 Flynn Avenue 
Burlington, VT 05401 
Most herbs are best preserved by drying. Cut the stalks 
in early morning, gather them in small bunches and hang 
them in a cool, dry place for several weeks. 
