From a total investment of $2,600, Peyton Hinkle now 
operates a flourishing bird feed business, supplying area 
grocery and hardware stores. 
In Business 
A national magazine for small, warm entrepreneurs. 
Encouragement, advice, and perspective where it’s most 
needed. 
This here issue includes a piece on bookkeeping 
by the author of Small Time Operator (opposite page), 
access to and evaluation of low-cost long distance phone 
services, microcomputer programming, the business 
history of Brookstone Tools (p. 143), and new business 
opportunities in beneficial insects. 
—SB 
In Business 
Jerome Goldstein, Editor 
$14 /yr (6 issues) 
postpaid from: 
In Business 
nae 
iT 
Box 323 
eet cas 
| 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
i 
: 
; Ea 
@ 
na 
. 
| 
If your monthly phone 
“% 
| 
bills are $400 or more, 
you probably should 
consider some kind of 
long distance telecom- 
munication system. 
A savvy farmer gave me this cash flow advice: “Never 
spend more in a month than you make in a week and 
you'll always come out okay.” 
Harold Brossman is a small apple grower. 
He’s so small, 
in fact, commercial packers or buyers don’t want to 
bother with him. On top of that, he lives in an area where 
roadside markets for selling fruit outnumber grocery 
stores. So he solved his apple marketing problem by 
making dried apples. Commonly called schnitz in the 
Pennsylvania Dutch country, the dried apples are whole- 
saled to the surrounding roadside market operators and 
to area groceries. 
Not far away, Robert Kime and his wife also found they 
weren't faring very well with only 30 acres of apples. 
They looked around and decided to make them into apple 
butter. Demand for the product has grown to the extent 
they now are obliged to buy apples from their neighbors, 
mostly large growers. 
Peyton Hinkle operated a small egg farm until business got 
sO competitive only large operators could show a profit. 
Hinkle looked around for another way to survive. He 
came up with the idea of growing and mixing bird feed 
for sale to area grocery and hardware stores. Today he 
has a flourishing route business that requires two trucks 
to handle. He has added gourmet lines of processed 
fruits and condiments as a way of making each stop 
more profitable. 
Robert Thayer sells dried weeds for floral arrangements. 
But at one time he and his brother grew vegetables for 
the wholesale market. Then labor and other problems 
became too much of a burden. Thayer looked at all the 
weeds he used to fight every year and decided to put at 
least some of them to work for him. Today his dried 
weed business is so extensive he hasn't time to harvest 
them anymore. 
He buys from other weed pickers—some 
of them a couple of thousand miles away . 
How to Open Your Own Shop or Gallery 
A good detailed book on retail business, with step-by-step 
examples. The advice is based on experience, the motives 
are very American. The author writes for McCall's and 
Better Homes and Gardens. 
—Michael Phillips 
How to Open Your 
Own Shop or Gallery 
Leta W. Clark 
1978; 229 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid from: 
Penguin Books 
299 Murray Hill Parkway 
East Rutherford, NJ 07073 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
i 
If your shop's decor permits, try to include a community 
bulletin board. Become a regular stop for everybody who 
has a poster to put up or kittens to give away. Work to 
establish your store as a viable, caring part of your 
community. Also, if your budget is too limited to permit 
donations to every worthy cause, offer the use of your 
bulletin board as your contribution. It helps, and it works. 
In retailing jargon, events that bring people into your 
shop are called ‘‘traffic builders.” Time-honored ones 
are the Santa at Christmas time, and the free demonstra- 
tion or giveaways. The idea behind traffic builders is 
based on the strength of numbers—the more people 
that trek through your store, the higher your chances 
are for sales. 
One of the funniest traffic-builder stories is told by Ben 
Rosenthal, of the Small Business Administration's Service 
Corps of Retired Executives. 
He tells of a shop he and 
some partners opened in a small town in Texas during 
the Depression, with no pre-opening promotion budget, 
and a slim purse to carry them through the beginning 
months. They needed a terrific promotion to kick it 
all off, and he was very worried. 
They finally took stock of the town and discovered that 
the townspeople were very religious. Every other block 
seemed to have a church in it, and attendance at services 
was high. This gave them their big idea. The store owners 
put all their excess efforts into building a big grandstand 
directly in front of the shop. Then they went around to 
every church they could find and announced that they 
were sponsoring a singing contest between the town’s 
many church choirs. 
The churches responded enthusiastically, and the store 
owners proceeded to the local newspaper office with a 
written notice of the contest, the names of the partici- 
pating churches and the hours each choir was set to 
appear—coinciding, of course, with the opening week 
of the store. The clincher was that the winning choir 
would be selected by votes cast by the community. 
Anybody who wanted to vote was eligible, and the 
ballot box was placed inside the store. 
The newspaper ran several major articles about the big 
contest. Religious leaders announced it from every pulpit 
in town. Extra choir practice sessions were prepared, and 
the entire network of church communication carried news 
of the big competition—and at the same time, news of 
the new store. 
Obviously, the event was a smash. The store swarmed 
with voters who soon became customers, the store owners 
had generated untold waves of good will, “certificates of 
excellence” were awarded to some of the choirs, and the 
newspaper circulation increased. Rosenthal finishes his 
story by pointing out that the cost was virtually nil—they 
disassembled the grandstand and eventually used the 
wood for other purposes! 
(RR 
SR SS 
Starting a Small Restaurant 
This is an extraordinary book in many ways but it will 
be most useful to those people who think their cooking 
is great and that they should do it in their own restaurant; 
next in line will be those who read it and still want to 
open a restaurant. No other comparable book exists. This 
is a unique and tough hands-on guide to doing it. It is 
fun for all those people who like good restaurants, think 
they know why some are good and others aren't and for 
those people who wonder how the complexity swirling 
around them in a restaurant gets translated into a profit- 
able business. 
—Michael Phillips 
Starting a Small 
Restaurant 
(A Guide to Excellence 
in the Purveying of 
Public Victuals) 
Daniel Miller 
1978; 180 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid from: 
The Harvard 
Common Press 
The Common 
Harvard, MA 01451 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
All your friends, who have just been treated to another 
of your wonderfully warm parties with delicious food 
and drinks, are urging you to open your own little place. 
Do not listen to them. Not unless you realize many years 
will pass before you spend another full evening with 
them, either as host or guest. 
e 
The layout of the restaurant should allow the server to 
proceed to the pickup point, take the order ticket, pick 
up the meal plates, and deliver them, all in less than a 
minute. 
In sixty seconds, a hot meal loses little flavor 
or heat. 
In 180 seconds it can lose its “‘piping hot” 
quality, and the dinner partially loses its initial delicious 
aroma as well. The main advantage of a small dining 
establishment is that it can fulfill this implied promise 
to its customers: hot food will be served hot and cold 
food will be served cold. Your servers must understand 
this principle. 
If you wish to infuriate a chef, design your 
kitchen so that orders cannot be picked up within forty- 
five seconds after the call. 
e 
If your restaurant is dependent on transient customers, 
one of the tricks of the trade on a slow day is to have 
all employee vehicles parked in front of the place. 
See 
eee 
eee 
See 
ee 
8 
8s) 
8) 
(¥ 
6) 
ie 
6 6 @ 
|S) 
6) 
6)'6 
(a 
66 
w 
0. 
6-0 
(eo 
be 
oe) 
eS) 
6 ee 
6 866 
8 
ee 
RO 
DO 
De 
Oe 
eC 
OHHH 
AD 
Os 
Where the Money Is & How to Get It 
Methods of raising capital. Accurate, simple, clear, short 
and precise as opposed to bright, wise, sensitive, compre- 
hensive. 
Expensive, but most public libraries should 
get acopy. 
—Michael Phillips 
Where the Money Is 
& How to Get It 
2nd Edition 
Ted Nicholas 
1973, 1976; 186 pp. 
$3.95 Postpaid from: 
Enterprise 
Publishing Company 
Hippocrene Books 
171 Madison Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
A big mistake often made by entrepeneurs whose venture 
fails is to start off under-capitalized. 
To figure your start-up costs, estimate all expenses. Add 
up all disasters that are likely to happen — because they 
will, Then double it. This is how much capital you 
should have. 
In your planning, forget any grandiose ideas about your 
““image.’” Expensive facilities or fringe benefits for 
employees will cause you to go broke before you start. 
Keep your operating expenses to a minimum. Use your 
home for an office. 
If you must, rent a small, inexpensive 
office. 
Furnish it second-hand. Do not put in executive 
benefits and other frills. You must be willing to postpone 
rewards until the company is a success. 
Cut every corner you can. Order a small quantity of 
stationery. Type letters yourself at first. Buy supplies 
in small quantities. Find the least expensive way to test 
your product or service. Work on methods of selling your 
product or service. 
A quick way to kill a venture capitalist’s interest is paying 
yourself a higher salary than your former job or by estab- 
lishing company headquarters in, for example, an attractive 
tropical place without a sound business reason. 
ele 0 «1 a) ee ls 0 
6 bes! e Bw) 6 
0 
6 
0 ete « o's & 00,0 6s 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
I’m one of the few people I know who can deal 
with something at the beginning of a movie like 
MCMXXXIX without fear because I really enjoyed 
Roman number day in elementary school. But it 
is real weird — in MCMXXXIX you have a sub- 
traction problem followed by an addition problem 
followed by a subtraction problem — and everyone 
knows that number reading is supposed to be 
addition and multiplication only — higher and 
higher. (1000 plus 1000 minus 100 plus 10 plus 
10 plus 10 plus 10 minus 1 is a real strange way to 
get to 1939.) But it’s a bad time to be reading 
Roman numerals in — first the whole century is 
a little bizarre, starting off with the MCM stuff 
and now here at the end of the century things are 
getting longer and messier by the year — this year 
is MCMLXXX and it’s an even year — think of 
1988 — MCMLXXXVIII, followed by 
MCMLXXXIX, followed by — get this — 
MCMXC — short but odd. It’s hard to think their 
way — I was thinking of 1999 being MCMXCIX 
and sort of getting off on it — subtraction all the 
way, but really 1999 is MIM, followed by MM 
followed by MMI and MMII and all the gang. For 
a while things will be kind of short 
— MMX and 
stuff like that and you'll be able to date movies 
at a glance by the verbosity of their copyright 
dates — if it goes on and on it’s twentieth century. 
I have faith that our grandchildren, if any, will be 
able to read Roman numbers, if they’re still being 
used, better than we because their’s will all start 
with MM which is a way of saying 2000 even we 
might have thought of. 
My favorite Roman date in this millenium is 
MDCCCLXXXVIII which is the longest one there 
is if you follow the rules. Of course, not every one 
follows the rules, though movie people seem to. 
© 
For example, Sather Gate says Erected by Jane 
Sather MDCCCCVIIII which is saying 1909 the 
hard but clear way. 
