First, get the book: 
The Budget Traveler’s Asia by 
David Jenkins. Read the intro- 
duction thoroughly, then purchase 
some Bartholomew’‘s Maps of Asia, for 
where you‘re headed. 
You’l/ need at least 
$10 per day of travelling — | don’t see how 
you can do it for less. Even if you just hang 
around you'll wind up spending it on something, 
or you can easily spend more. 
Convert all but 
$100 
of it into travellers’ checks, either American Express or 
First National City (both are universally accepted, but 
equally spotty in service). 
If it doesn’t sting your patrio- 
tism, buy them in German marks so that you won’t hurt 
each time you go to the bank and exchange your checks 
at a Jower, sinking dollar rate. American Express checks 
are also available in Japanese, French and Swiss currency. 
Ask for the checks in a mix of small and large denomi- 
nations. 
You don’t want to be stuck with only large ones 
when all you need is $3 to pay an airport tax or the bus 
fare to the border. 
It is a big headache to break a large 
one into smaller units, and you Jose money doing it. 
Carry the remaining $100 in cash — in $10 and $20 bills, 
and a few $1 bills to use in emergencies such as the many 
desperate days official banks are closed, or in places 
where they don’t exist, as at borders. 
Five or ten dollar 
_ bills will prove invaluable at some time on your trip. 
If you are getting a new passport, ask for one with 48 
pages in it (no extra cost) to avoid running out of space. 
(Some artistic custom officers enjoy imprinting just one 
entry or exit stamp per page.) You can have extra, 
awkward, fold-out pages added to your existing passport 
at any American embassy, also at no cost. 
Where to carry all this paperwork of checks, passport, 
vaccination card, cash, tickets, youth hostel card and 
other valuables is a problem that receives a different solu- 
tion by different travellers. 
| hid my passport, one $50 
check, one $20 bill and vaccination card in my secret 
place. 
The rest — all those travellers’ checks, cards, the 
rest of the cash —/ put in an old bag with my cameras 
and kept it near me as best | could. Money belts are hot 
and a nuisance to use. My secret place was an inside 
pocket sewn in my pants, which was very safe and not 
noticeable to me or a potential pickpocket. 
There are 
other possibilities, with pluses and minuses. Anything 
that could fall off, be torn off, or forgotten behind should 
be avoided. | would avoid example No. 2 in the illustration. 
/ kept one copy of my travellers’ checks’ numbers in my 
secret place. 
It is very important to have more than one 
copy of those numbers in various places, even one at 
home, because you can’t replace them on your trip unless 
you have those numbers! For many years there were all 
kinds of rackets being played with travellers’ checks and 
banks in Asia make it as difficult as possible to replace 
them there. 
Forget about having money sent over: it’s unsure and 
time-consuming and in some countries near hopeless. 
The best solution to the problem of running out of 
money is not to let it happen — bring enough. 
Rates for converting your dollars or marks into local 
currency are given up-to-date in current issues of News- 
week, which can be found in any larger Asian city. Avoid 
the black market; it is dangerous, not for your life so 
much (that is possible) as for the safety of your money. 
The people who deal in that business know every trick 
that works, and it’s a good way to Jose your whole 
bankroll. | could write a book on some of the maddening 
and foolish stories | have heard first-hand about the skill 
of these con men. 
Besides, | can think of only two Asian 
countries where the black market rate is substantially 
better than the official one. Stick to banks, but do shop 
around because bank rates vary; very often banks at 
borders and airports have less lucrative rates. 
In many 
Eastern countries, there is a curious custom of refusing 
to deal with broken, ripped or taped bills, and you will 
find it hard to have someone accept them from you. 
There is little choice but to join in the game. So don’t 
accept them from anyone else, especially from a bank! 
Some things to bring besides money: lots of passport 
size photos. 
You almost can’t have too many — the few 
you don’t use you can give away to people you stay with. 
Some countries require 4 or 5 photos for one visa, so you 
can really go through a bunch of them. A good idea is 
to bring the negative of your photo and have an Asian 
studio print them up for you very inexpensively if you 
need any more on the way. 
As a rule, it is easier and cheaper to get visas along the 
way. 
It is usually quicker than getting them in the U.S., 
and there is little chance of the visa expiring as you 
dawdle on a beach somewhere. 
Bring at least two rolls of toilet paper. Bring very few 
clothes; it is simple and cheap to buy or have clothes 
made in Asia (cheap labour). Do bring a coat and very 
sturdy shoes, which you cannot find there. Don’t bring 
a raincoat — bring a folding umbrella. Bring a small 
padlock to lock rooms in guesthouses or inns. (One with 
a “‘combination-lock” is very effective because it is 
unfamiliar to local lockpickers, and useful with a partner 
— no key to share or lose.) Don’t bring any medicines. 
Most prescription drugs are available there, by brand 
name, over the counter, and inexpensively. 
Lomotil is 
the standard “plug” for diarrhea symptoms. 
You would 
need an antibiotic or antiamoebic. for more serious 
diarrhea or dysentery. Check one of the guide books 
or Staying Healthy in Asia (see below) for more informa- 
tion on maintaining your travelling body. 
All these things are very important, but after 4 years of 
wandering around the back roads of Asia, what became 
most important to me was mail. 
Three ways to receive 
mail are: c/o American Express, c/o your embassy, or 
c/o Poste Restante. American Express requires that you 
be using their checks and holds mail 1-2 months. 
Your 
embassy is safe but out of the way and sometimes 
troublesome to get into. Mail goes there via the local 
postal system, the same as Poste Restante, which is a 
general listing. Poste Restante mail is shelved alphabet- 
ically, so check all possible jetters of your names. 
Poste 
Tne 
Sources: 
The Budget Traveler’s Asia 
Definitely the most useful guide to Asia in print. Well 
worn copies have passed from veterans leaving to new- 
comers arriving. All my copies were eagerly bought by 
new initiates hard up for usable informatien. 
It happily 
covers every country from Turkey to Japan, except 
mainiand China, supplying basic advice and solid tips to 
travelling in the East in general and minute particulars 
such as the $2 hotels available in Kabul, 
Afghanistan, or 
the sequence of trains and buses connecting India and 
Nepal. 
The book lacks maps and much on languages, 
but does have a short bibliography of general reading 
for each country. As a whole the guide is honest and 
dependable and very popular among travelers. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
E.P. Dutton and Company 
Two Park Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The Budget 
Traveler’s Asia 
(Formerly Student 
Guide to Asia) 
David Jenkins 
1975, 1979; 415 pp. 
The On-Your-Own Guide to Asia 
This book is supericr to the Budget Traveler's Guide; 
however, it only covers a portion of the same area, that 
is Thailand east to Japan, also excepting the communist 
countries, but it presents this area thoroughly and 
substantially. 
It has good language rudiments, good 
bibliographies, decent maps, and an amazing amount 
of information that is simply not available anywhere else. 
It is written by young people who have lived there, and is 
the best travel guide to anywhere | have ever encountered. 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
Charles E. Tuttle Company 
Rutland, VT 05701 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The On-Your-Own 
Guide to Asia 
(The Budget 
Handbook to East 
and Southeast Asia) 
Alison Davis, Editor 
1979; 347 pp. 
Bartholomew’s Physical Maps 
The five relevant maps are the Mideast (Greece to Iran), 
Indian Subcontinent (Afghanistan to Bangladesh), South- 
east Asia (Burma to Indonesia), China (including Mongolia 
and Korea, Taiwan) and Japan. Smaller towns and 
secondary roads are charted and physical features are 
indicated by color and contours, making it indispensible 
for someone unfamiliar with the geography. 
Includes 
index of major place names. Available in some Asian cities. 
Bartholomew’s Maps 
Catalog #604 free from: 
(30” x 40”, 
American Map Company 
scale 1:4 million) 
1926 Broadway 
$5.95 each 
New York, NY 10023 
Staying Healthy in Asia 
Combining common sense and the experience of students 
living in Asia for extended periods, this book teaches 
preventative health care, dealing with special ilInesses 
of Asia, and using medicines yourself to help. The success 
of your Asian journey hinges on your health. Don’t be 
ignorant. 
Your family doctor will not be able to supply 
you with this valuable information because he doesn’t 
know anything about /t. 
- 
Staying Healthy 
$2.50 postpaid from: 
in Asia 
Volunteers in Asia 
P.O. Box 4543 
(formerly VIA 
Health Handbook) 
Ann Huckins, Editor 
1979; 96 pp. 
Stanford, CA 94305 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
ty a 
f 
othai, former ca 
of Thai 
the buildings include the chedi 
with viharn, a mandop, a prang 
and a bot. 
Restante can be used at any post office, not just ones 
in large cities. 
They hold for 1-3 months. People writing 
you just address your name, last name very clearly, c/o 
Poste Restante, and name of a town or city in the country. 
Sending packages is another art. Every country has its 
own traditions and methods, some ridiculous, but it’s 
always in your self interest to follow them exactly. 
Don’t trust anyone to do it for you. 
| have sent scores 
of packages of all sizes, from all countries, most full 
of exposed film (up to 50 rolls in one). They have all 
arrived safely and most were unopened by either our 
or their customs. 
The key is doing the boxing, wrapping, 
affixing stamps, and paperwork yourself, and to do it 
in the main post office of a large city. Most handmade 
merchandise made in Asia is exempt from duty. Write 
that on the box: Handmade, Exempt from Duty. Sea 
mail takes 2-3 months. Air mail costs about 1 million 
dollars per package. 
How to Get There 
To the Mideast, fly Laker to London. 
Check the city 
guides and “underground” newspapers for cheap flights 
to the Mideast, usually such carriers as Aeroflot, Jordan 
Airlines or Syrian Airlines, all non-members of inter- 
national price agreements. 
To the Far East, join OC-Tours, a “charter” group that 
was originally for overseas Chinese visiting relatives, and 
now flies several thousand flights a year to Japan, Hong 
Kong, Taiwan and other Asian cities. Current fares 
(1980) include: San Francisco to Hong 
Kong—$309, 
one way, $579 roundtrip. OC-Tours, 828 Airport Road, 
Burlingame, CA 94010. 
Telephone (800)-632-4734 or 
(800)-227-5988. 
When To Go? 
Summer is obviously hot, but with plenty of visitors 
about, wild. Almost any city, except a few notorious 
spots, is far safer than any large town in America. 
Things 
are changing quickly in Asia: go now. By far your best 
source of guidance is the network of new gypsies wander- 
ing in all parts of Asia. They have just come the way 
you are headed, and will gladly share their hard won 
knowledge. 
The Complete Guide to China 
Just the very idea is tempting, isn’t it? Since going over 
there on your own and traipsing around isn’t permitted, 
a guidebook such as this one can be very useful. 
Dr. 
Saunders starts with the essential visa and the mechanics 
of getting together the required group. He tells you what 
to expect at the border, how to be polite Chinese style, 
and how to get along with your interpreters and guides. 
There will probably be some culture shock, so there’s a 
bit about that. (How would it fee/ to be walking down 
the street in a big city and have a mob following you?) 
In short, a typical, competent guidebook but with a very 
personal touch stemming from his recent firsthand 
experience. 
I’ve left the best to last: the color photo- 
graphs are enough to inspire you to rash action! 
—J. Baldwin 
The Complete Travel 
Guide to China 
Hilliard Saunders 
1979; 179 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
China Publishing Company 
P.O. Box 342 
Seal Beach, CA 90740 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The Chinese are honest people. 
Asa 
result, travelers need 
not worry about articles being pilfered from their hotel 
rooms or pockets. On the contrary, you will find it 
difficult to throw away worn articles; the Chinese will 
return them to you. 
Scenery along the Li River 
Passpo 
photo 
negatiy 
Combi 
Padloc| 
Foldin, 
umbre| 
