"td 
a] 
~~ 
is 
HABITATIO 
Walden 
This edition is the one, | believe, that Thoreau would have 
bought. 
It costs a buck fifty. The prime document of 
America’s 3rd Revolution, now in progress. 
—SB 
Walden 
(and ‘‘Civil Disobedience’’) 
Henry David Thoreau 
1854; 256 pp. 
$1 50 postpaid from: 
New American Library, Inc. 
P.O. Box 120 
120 Woodbine 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621 
e 
Most of the luxuries, and many of the so-called comforts 
of life, are not only not indispensable, but positive 
hindrances to the elevation of mankind. With respect to 
ei 
h 
} 
= 
. 
luxuries and comforts, the wisest have ever lived a more 
simple and meagre life than the poor. 
| learned this, at least, by my experiment: that if one 
advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and 
endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will 
meet with a success unexpected in common hours. He 
will put some things behind, will pass an invisible bound- 
ary; new, universal, and more liberal laws will begin to 
establish themselves around and within him; or the old 
laws be expanded, and interpreted in his favor in a more 
liberal sense, and he will live with the license of a higher 
order of beings. In proportion as he simplifies his life, the 
laws of the universe will appear less complex, and solitude 
will not be solitude, nor poverty poverty, nor weakness 
weakness. 
!f you have built castles in the air, your work 
need not be lost; that is where they should be. Now put 
the foundations under them. 
Time is but the stream | go a-fishing in, | drink at it; but 
while | drink | see the sandy bottom and detect how 
shallow it is. Its thin current slides away, but eternity 
remains. 
| would drink deeper; fish in the sky, whose 
bottom is pebbly with stars. 
e 
After hoeing, or perhaps reading and writing, in the fore- 
noon, | usually bathed again in the pond, swimming 
across one of its coves for a stint, and washed the dust of 
labor from my person, or smoothed out the last wrinkle 
which study had made, and for the afternoon was abso- 
lutely free. Every day or two | strolled to the village to 
hear some of the gossip which is incessantly going on 
there, circulating either from mouth, or from newspaper 
to newspaper, and which, taken in homeopathic doses, 
was really as refreshing in its way as the rustle of leaves 
and the peeping of frogs. 
® 
| heartily accept the motto, — ‘That government is best 
which governs least;’’ and | should like to see it acted up 
to more rapidly and systematically. Carried out, it 
finally amounts to this, which also | believe, — ‘‘That 
government is best which governs not at all," and when 
men are prepared for it, that will be the kind of govern- 
ment which they will have. 
Sand County Almanac 
“Classic” it’s called now, because it was published in 1949 
and still has bite. Wherever the ecologist looks the world 
weaves a wild story. 
This one looked at Sand County, 
Wisconsin, among other places, and was led to propose a 
Land Ethic. 
A Sand County Almanac 
Aldo Leopold 
1949; 295 pp. 
$2.25 postpaid from: 
Ballantine Books, Inc. 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e@ 
= 
American conservation is, | fear, still concerned for the 
most part with show pieces. 
e 
Perhaps the most serious obstacle impeding the evolution 
of a land ethic is the fact that our educational and eco- 
nomic system is headed away from, rather than toward, 
an intense consciousness of land. Your true modern is 
separated from the land by many middlemen, and by 
innumerable physical gadgets. 
e 
A thing is right when it tends to preserve the integrity, 
stability, and beauty of the biotic community. 
It is 
wrong when it tends otherwise. 
In the beginning there was only the unity of the Ice 
Sheet. Then followed the unity of the March thaw, and 
the northward hegira of the international geese. Every 
March since the Pleistocene, the geese have honked unity 
from China Sea to Siberian Steppe, from Euphrates to 
Volga, from Nine to Murmansk, from Lincolnshire to 
Spitsbergen. 
Every March since the Pleistocene, the 
geese have honked unity from Currituck to Labrador, 
Matamuskeet to Ungava, Horseshoe Lake to Hudson's 
Bay, Avery Island to Baffin Land, Panhandle to Mackenzie, 
Sacramento to Yukon. 
By this international commerce of geese, the waste corn 
of Illinois is carried through the clouds of the Arctic 
tundras, there to combine with the waste sunlight of a 
nightless June to grow goslings for all the lands between. 
And in this annual barter of food for light, and winter 
warmth for summer solitude, the whole continent 
receives as net profit a wild poem dropped from the 
murky skies upon the muds of March. 
e 
| was young then, and full of trigger-itch; | thought that 
because fewer wolves meant more deer, that no wolves 
would mean hunters’ paradise. 
e 
We all strive for safety, prosperity, comfort, long life, 
and dullness. 
SE 
The Unsettling of America 
Our land is more undone by our agriculture than by any 
other mischief. Farmer, poet, essayist Wendell Berry 
speaks to the matter with plain speech — it rasps the 
brain, leaves 
a memory of the thought. Don’t say it is no 
longer possible to do our farming right. Berry is. 
—SB 
(See The American Farm, p. 127, and Berry’s novel The 
Memory of Old Jack, p. 75.) 
The Unsettling 
of America 
(Culture & Agriculture) 
Wendell Berry 
1978; 228 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid from: 
Avon Books 
250 W. 55th Street 
New York, NY 10019 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
We need wilderness as a standard of civilization and as a 
cultural model. Only by preserving areas where nature’s 
processes are undisturbed can we preserve an accurate 
sense of the impact of civilization upon its natural sources. 
Only if we know how the land was can we tell how it is. 
e 
The Domestication of Absence 
It is impossible to divorce the question of what we do 
from the question of where we are — or, where we think 
we are. That no sane creature befouls its own nest is 
accepted as generally true. What we conceive to be our 
nest, and where we think it is, are therefore questions of 
the greatest importance. Do we, for instance, carry on 
our work in our nest or do we only reside and get our 
mail there? 
Is our nest a place of consumption only or 
is it also a place of production? Is it the source of necessary 
goods, energies, and “services,” or only their destination? 
| have already spoken of the highly simplified role of the 
modern household with respect to the production and 
preparation of food: it has set itself increasingly aside 
from production and preparation and become more and 
more a place for the consumption of food produced and 
prepared elsewhere. But this setting aside of the nest or 
residence from the sources of life is more general and 
even more serious than that would indicate. The modern 
home, even more than the government and universities, 
has institutionalized the divisions and fragmentations 
of modern life. 
e 
A part of the health of a farm is the farmer's wish to 
remain there. 
His long-term good intention toward the 
place is signified by the presence of trees. A family is 
married to a farm more by their planting and protecting 
of trees than by their memories or their knowledge, for 
the frees stand for their fidelity and kindness to what 
they do not know. The most revealing sign of the ill 
health of industrial agriculture — its greed, its short-term 
ambitions — is its inclination to see trees as obstructions 
and to strip the land bare of them. 
e 
There are many people — ex-farmers, heirs of farmers, 
and would-be farmers — who want to farm but are 
prevented from doing so by high land costs, taxes, 
inheritance taxes, and interest rates. And these economic 
barriers, which exclude the small operator, directly favor 
not just the survival, but also the expansion, of the big 
operator. This is not a necessary result of ‘’the way things 
are.’ 
It is the calculated effect of a deliberate policy to 
allow the big to grow bigger at the expense of the small. 
In addition, there are many farmers of the same kinds 
who are presently farming, but whose survival is in doubt 
for the same reasons. 
e 
As our present economy clearly shows, the small can 
survive only if the great are restrained. And there is 
nothing undemocratic or anti-libertarian about restraining 
them. To assume that ordinary citizens can compete 
successfully with people of wealth and with corporations, 
as our government presently tends to do, is simply to 
abandon the ordinary citizens. Restraint by taxation is 
the smallest, most obvious, simplest, and cheapest answer. 
This is not my idea. It is Thomas Jefferson's. Writing to 
Reverend James Madison on October 28, 1785, Jefferson 
spoke of the desirability of freehold tenure of property. 
And then he said: ‘Another means of silently lessening the 
inequality of property is to exempt all from taxation 
below a certain point, and to tax the higher portions of 
property in geometric progression as they rise. The earth 
is given as 
acommon stock for man to labor and live on. 
If for the encouragement of industry [he means, of course, 
mainly agriculture] we allow it to be appropriated, we 
must take care that employment be provided to those 
excluded from the appropriation. 
If we do not, the 
fundamental right to labor the earth returns to the 
unemployed ... it is not too soon to provide by every 
possible means that as few as possible shall be without a 
little portion of land. The small landholders are the most 
precious part of astate...” 
It would, of course, be 
necessary to consider how much land in any region ought 
to constitute a living for a family. 
Turtle Island 
To understand whole evidently requires understanding 
with more than rational consciousness. 
| mean, with 
experience, with dreams, with art, with poetry — (not- 
quite synonyms for knowledge which is real but not 
nameable). 
Gary Snyder’s poetry addresses the life- 
planet identification with unusual simplicity of style and 
complexity of effect. 
Turtle Island 
Gary Snyder 
1974; 114 pp. 
$2.25 postpaid from: 
New Directions 
Publishing Corporation 
c/o J.B. Lippincott Co. 
East Washington Square 
Philadelphia, PA 19105 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Stewardship means, for most of us, find your place on the 
planet, dig in, and take responsibility from there — the 
tiresome but tangible work of school boards, county 
supervisors, local foresters — local politics. Even while 
holding in mind the largest scale of potential change. Get 
a sense of workable territory, learn about it, and start 
acting point by point. On all levels from national to local 
the need to move toward steady state economy — equi- 
librium, dynamic balance, inner-growth stressed — must 
be taught. Maturity/diversity/climax/creativity. 
e 
“ONE SHOULD NOT TALK TO A SKILLED 
HUNTER ABOUT WHAT IS FORBIDDEN 
BY THE BUDDHA” 
—Hsiang-yen 
A gray fox, female, nine pounds three ounces. 
39 5/8” long with tail. 
Peeling skin back (Kai 
reminded us to chant the Shingyo first) 
cold pelt. crinkle; and musky smell 
mixed with dead-body odor starting. 
Stomach content: a whole ground squirrel well chewed 
plus one lizard foot 
and somewhere from inside the ground squirrel 
a bit of aluminum foil. 
The secret. 
and the secret hidden deep in that. 
e 
TOMORROW'S SONG 
The USA slowly lost its mandate 
in the middle and later twentieth century 
it never gave the mountains and rivers, 
trees and animals, 
a vote. 
all the people turned away from it 
myths die; even continents are impermanent 
Turtle Island returned. 
4 
my friend broke open a dried coyote-scat 
removed a ground squirrel tooth 
pierced it, hung it 
from the gold ring 
in his ear. 
We look to the future with pleasure 
we need no fossil fuel 
get power within 
grow strong on less. 
Grasp the tools and move in rhythm side by side 
flash gleams of wit and silent knowledge 
eye to eye 
sit still like cats or snakes or stones 
as whole and holding as 
the blue black sky. 
gentle and innocent as wolves 
as tricky as a prince 
At work and in our place: 
in the service 
of the wilderness 
of life 
of death 
of the Mother's breasts! 
