EDUCATION 
BY MAIL 
by John Bear 
The most important thing to say is, yes, it is honestly 
possible to earn a fully-accredited, unquestionably legal, 
universally-accepted degree, from major universities, 
without ever setting foot on a college campus. 
Even 
starting from scratch, right out of high school, a 
Bachelor’s degree can easily be completed in less than two 
years, at a cost well under $1000. Master’s degrees, doc- 
torates, and even law degrees are also possible through 
non-resident study. 
The way it works is this: First you are given academic 
credit for all learning experiences, whether or not they 
took place in a classroom. 
For instance, if you learned to 
speak a second /anguage from your grandmother, you 
would be given the same number of units as if you had 
learned it in a college classroom. 
The same goes for flying 
an airplane, programming a computer, and hundreds of 
other learning experiences. 
/f you fall short of the units necessary for a degree, you 
can make up the deficit in three ways: taking equivalency 
examinations (given all over North America every month); 
taking correspondence courses (68 universities offer more 
than 2000 courses, both on paper and on videotape), or 
completing independent study projects. Master’s and 
doctorates almost always require the writing of a thesis 
as well. 
One major caution: while there are hundreds of excellent 
schools offering non-resident or short-residency degrees, 
there are also more degree mills than ever before, some 
really well disguised. Hardly a day passes in my degree 
consulting service that someone doesn’t come to me, 
having already wasted $2000, $3000, even $5000 on a 
worthless degree. Some phonies use almost-real names 
(Cormell, Darthmouth), others are less coy and simply 
copy real school names. 
The basic rule is to check out 
any school you’ve never heard of. If it has a phone, use 
it to find out the credentials of the officers, and the 
names of a few graduates who live near you. No legiti- 
mate school will refuse these requests. 
Here, then, are some outstanding sources in each of the 
above categories: 
NON-RESIDENT BACHELOR’S DEGREES 
University of the State of New York, Regents External 
Degree Program, Cultural Education Center, Albany, 
NY 11230. 
The o/dest chartered state university in 
America, dormant for nearly 200 years, was reactivated 
in the ‘70s, as a non-resident degree-granting school. 
They have no campus, no faculty, no library, no courses 
— but have awarded tens of thousands of fully-accredited 
B.A. and B.S. degrees. Outstanding catalog. 
Thomas A. Edison College, 101 W. State Street, Trenton, 
NJ 08608. 
Virtually the same as the New York program. 
Counseling centers throughout New Jersey, but the 
degree may be earned while living anywhere in the world. 
Western Illinois University, Non-Traditional Programs, 
Macomb, IL 61455. Unlike New York and Edison, 
Western I/linois requires students to complete fifteen 
units of their own courses — but these may be done 
entirely by correspondence. As with all the Bachelor's 
degree programs, the degree work can be in virtually 
any field of study. 
Columbia Union College, Flower Avenue, Takoma Park, 
MD 20012. A traditional church-owned (Seventh Day 
Adventist) school, but one in which all the required 
courses can be done by correspondence. 
Connecticut Board for State Academic Awards, 340 
Capitol Avenue, Hartford, CT 06115. A program similar 
to that of New York and Edison, originally for Connecticut 
residents only, but now accepting students from anywhere. 
NON-RESIDENT OR VERY SHORT 
RESIDENCY MASTER’S DEGREES 
California State University, External Degree Program, 
1000 E. Victoria Street, Dominguez Hills, CA 90747. 
The only totally non-resident Master's offered by any 
state 
university. The degree is in humanities, which can include 
Philosophy, literature, music, art, history, etc. 
There is 
also a short-residency Master’s in business administration. 
Syracuse University, 610 E. Fayette Street, Syracuse, 
NY 13202. Short-residency Master’s programs in business 
administration (24 days on campus), fine arts (four weeks 
on campus), and social science (24 days on campus). 
The 
residential periods normally take place during summer 
vacation, when dormitory space is available. 
John Bear, whose Ph.D. comes from 
Michigan State University, is President 
of Degree Consulting Services, which 
is probably the only inexpensive 
($30) personal counseling service in 
the country for people seeking non- 
traditional degrees. They are located 
at Drawer HW, Littleriver, CA 95456. 
[Self-description] 
University of Oklahoma, Norman, OK 73069. The 
Master’s program is in the general area of liberal arts, and 
was specifically designed for people with a highly special- 
ized Bachelor's, who wish to become more generalized 
in their life and their credentials. 
Up to seven weeks on 
campus may be necessary. 
Beacon College, 2025 | Street N.W., Washington, DC 
20006. 
Totally non-resident degrees in virtually any 
field in which a monitor and a counselor are available. 
The catalog is excellent, and offers detailed examples of 
the kinds of learning contracts or agreements students 
prepare. Beacon is a candidate for accreditation. 
Goddard College, Plainfield, VT 05667. Master of Arts 
degrees in education, humanities, the social sciences, 
creative writing, art therapy, social ecology, and learning 
disabilities. Students meet one or two weeks a year at 
seminars held in Vermont and sometimes in California, or 
other locations where clusters of ten students can assemble. 
NON-RESIDENT OR VERY SHORT 
RESIDENCY DOCTORATES 
Nova University, College Avenue, Ft. Lauderdale, FL 
33314. The only fully-accredited short-residency 
doctorates available in the areas of education, public 
administration, and business administration. Students 
meet at various locations around the U.S., usually one 
day a month, and spend two weeks on the home campus. 
Union Graduate School, 2331 Victory Parkway, Cincin- 
nati, OH 45206. They are the Ph.D.-granting “arm” of 
the Union for Experimenting Colleges and Universities 
— aconsortium incldding many major state universities. 
The work may be done in any field of study in which 
faculty advisors are available, or may be found. Roughly 
seven weeks of residency is required, at centers located 
in Cincinnati, Washington, DC, New Orleans, and San 
Francisco. 
Union is a candidate for accreditation. 
Walden University, 801 Anchor Rode Drive, Naples, 
FL 33940. Most of Walden’s students are professional 
educators, earning their Ph.D. or Doctor of Education 
degree, with four weeks of summer residency (Florida 
or California), and independent guided study at home. 
Walden is not accredited but is chartered in Florida and 
has an outstanding array of faculty and tutors. 
Columbia Pacific University, 150 Shoreline Highway, 
Mill Valley, CA 94941. Founded by a medica/ doctor 
(who is also a psychiatrist and a homeopathic physician), 
Columbia Pacific offers totally non-resident doctorates 
in areas of holistic health, nutrition, and the health 
sciences, as wel/ as many other fields (business, engi- 
neering, psychology, architecture, physical education 
administration, etc.). 
The students live in more than 
forty different countries, and most will never see the 
“home campus.” The school is not accredited but is 
authorized by the state to grant degrees. 
Clayton University, P.O. Box 16150, St. Louis, MO 
63105. Non-resident doctoral programs in a wide variety 
of fields, including business, art, behavioral sciences (Carl 
Rogers is an advisor), nutrition (Linus Pauling is an advisor), 
chemistry, and music. 
Clayton is not accredited but has 
begun initial dialogue with its accrediting asssociation. 
LAW DEGREES BY CORRESPONDENCE 
University of San Gabriel Valley, 222 East Glenarm, 
Pasadena, CA 91106. 
Southland Law School, 69 North Catalina, Pasadena, 
CA 91106. The two schools are almost identical in 
approach. Each offers the 3,456 hours of home study 
needed to take the California Bar and a much faster law 
degree for those who want basic legal knowledge without 
planning to practice. 
EQUIVALENCY EXAMINATIONS 
College Level Examination Program , P.O. Box 1824, 
Princeton, NJ 08540. 
Proficiency Examination Program, P.O. Box 168, 
lowa City, [A 52240. 
CORRESPONDENCE COURSES 
University of Nebraska, Extension Division, Lincoln, 
NE 68508. Nebraska also offers a high school diploma 
through correspondence study which is accepted nation- 
wide. 
/t is usually much less expensive than dealing with 
the schools found on matchbooks. 
DUBE 
AGs 
10) 
6 4s 
elm 
eleud 
s). 
0) 
6 
6-0 
ape 
ee 
a. 
ee 
LEARNING 
SCHOOLS 
University of Alaska , 101 Eielson, Fairbanks, AK 99701. 
Because of the sparse and isolated population of the state, 
the University offers a huge array of courses (available to 
people in all states and nations), both academic and practi- 
cal (from typing to radio repair to aviation ground school). 
University of California, University Extension, 2223 
Fulton Street, Berkeley, CA 94720. 
University of Tennessee, Center for Extended Learning, 
Knoxville, TN 37916. California and Tennessee offer a 
huge menu of academic courses, covering many aspects 
of business, education, and the social sciences, among 
much else. 
Oklahoma State University, Independent and Corres- 
pondence Study, Stillwater, OK 74074. O.S.U. offers a 
great deal in the hands-on practical studies in engineering, 
with courses in the mechanical, civil, electrical, indus- 
trial, and petroleum aspects of the field. 
TRADE SCHOOLS 
There are literally thousands of non-degree-granting 
schools offering correspondence or residential instruction 
in non-academic subjects ranging from meat cutting to 
locksmithing to television repair to typewriting. 
Private, 
proprietary schools tend to be more expensive than 
universities per hour of study. Since many universities 
also offer home study in these “trade schoo!” subjects, 
dealing with them can often be much more economical. 
A complete directory of which universities offer which 
courses is available from Peterson’s Guides, Box 2123, 
Princeton, New Jersey 08540. 
It is called Guide to 
Independent Study through Correspondence Instruction, 
and it sells for $4.50. 
Although most non-university-type trade schools give 
good value for money, there are some fly-by-night fast- 
buck operators as well. 
The two best ways to check out 
any schoo! with which you are not familiar are: (1) Ask 
the National Home Study Council, 1601 18th St. N.W., 
Washington, DC 20009; and (2) Ask the school! for the 
names of at least three graduates in your area, and talk 
to them. 
If three out of three are satisfied, you stand 
a good chance of being so yourself. 
@ 
Bear’s Guide to Non-traditional 
College Degrees 
As sex and love are becoming separable subjects, so are 
accreditation and education. 
That may or may not be 
good, but it isso. 
This intelligent, practical book by the 
author of the survey above, responds accurately to the 
situation in American education today. For job oppor- 
tunity, get some easy degrees. 
For an interesting life, get 
some hard education. 
| can see good argument for 
getting them separately — you don’t cross your purposes 
Or narrow your possibilities so much. 
—SB 
[Suggested by J. Garwood] 
ee 
Bear’s Guide to 
Non-traditional 
College Degrees 
John Bear 
1980; 256 pp. 
$20 postpaid from: 
Dr. John Bear 
P.O. Box 646 
Mendocino, CA 95460 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Private Independent Schools 
I’ve been to a liberal grade school, an Archie and Veronica 
high school, a prestigious prep school (Exeter), a glossy 
college (Stanford), and the Army (Infantry). 
The most 
education happened at the prep school and the Army. 
This book describes private schools throughout the 
U.S., Canada, and overseas. 
If | had a kid and the money, 
Id use it. If | were a kid with parents with the money, 
Id use it. 
—SB 
Private Independent 
Schools 
Annual 
$35 postpaid from: 
Bunting and Lyon, Inc. 
238 North Main Street 
Wallingford, CT 06492 
00 (ole ane e\e)e ere a ete e e16& 
6 6. ere, 8 
@ 
6 eb 
6 Gime 
6 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
continued from last spread 
: 
Things about tidelands: 
3. Creatures who live in tidal mud get to have 
two big changes a day — light and dark and air 
and water. 
continued on next spread 
SSS Te o> 
: 
* 
