The World of the Soil 
An 
excursion through an amazing world by a scientist who 
explains the obvious with style and without condescen- 
sion. The references are to English soils but the principles 
apply everywhere. Also see Soil and Civilization (p. 49). 
—Richard Nilsen 
The World of the Soil 
; 
oe 
Sir E. John Russell 
1957; 237 pp. 
$1 95 Postpaid from: 
Franklin Watts Inc. 
730 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10019 
The chinks and crannies riddling the soil appear extremely 
minute to us and it seems incredible that any air could 
enter. But everything in Nature is relative: the molecules 
of oxygen are vastly smaller: crevices only 1/1000 of an 
inch wide, and far too small for us to see, are as large 
compared with an oxygen molecule as a valley about 
120 miles wide in comparison with a man. 
For a proper 
appreciation of the soil one must try to see things as they 
would appear to its smallest inhabitants if they had the 
power of sight. 
e 
... during a year a bullock leaves in its faeces enough 
food to support an insect population of at least one 
fifth of its own weight, to say nothing of the bacteria, 
fungi, protozoa, nematodes and other organisms that 
also participate. 
The Nature and Properties of Soils 
A college text on soil science. 
The writing is clear, there 
is a glossary of terms, and the section headings make it 
easy to find the information you want quickly. More 
facts than most people need, but well worth consulting 
on specific subjects. 
—Richard Nilsen 
The Nature and 
Properties of Soils 
Nyle C. Brady 
8th Edition 
1969; 653 pp. 
$1 9.95 postpaid from: 
The Macmillan Company 
866 Third Avenue 
New York, NY 10022 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
PHOSPHORUS 
NITROGEN 
POTASSIUM 
MECHANICAL 
SUPPORT 
OTHER 
NUTRIENTS 
ORGANIC 
MATTER 
POTASSIUM 
An illustration of the principle of limiting factors. The 
jevel of water in the barrels above represents the level of 
crop production. 
(Left) Nitrogen is represented as being 
the factor that is most limiting. Even though the other 
elements are present in more adequate amounts, crop 
production can be no higher than that allowed by the 
nitrogen. When nitrogen is added (right) the level of crop 
production is raised until it is controlled by the next most 
limiting factor, in this case, potassium. 
Puddied soil (left) and well-granulated soil (right). 
Plant 
roots and especially humus play the major role in soil 
granulation. 
For that reason a sod tends to encourage 
development of a granular structure in the surface horizon 
of cultivated land. 
ECAUSE “LAND USE” 
too often means “use up,” there’s considerable repair work to do. Usually it’s a 
choice between soil and oil. Choose soil. 
It takes longer to make oil (about 40 million years longer). 
Oil was alive. Soil is alive. 
—SB 
Approved Practices in Soil Conservation 
How to control erosion from wind and water. 
Very 
complete — contouring, drainage, pond construction, 
shelterbelts, wildlife management. Many 
of the procedures 
assume you have access to a tractor and implements. 
ress 
ree 
| 
rr 
tre 
fet 
i 
be 
a 
Foster worked for the U.S. Soil Conservation Service, and _,,52¥E ,ANFLUENCE Extenos o| 
much of the information is compiled from government 
pamphlets. 
They are usually referenced in the text, so 
you can use this book in a library to find which ones 
you want to send for. 
—Richard Nilsen 
SOME PROTECTION WILL EXTEND TO 1500 FEET ON THE LEEWARD SIDE 
= 
Approved Practices in 
Soil Conservation 
Albert B. Foster 
1964; 497 pp. 
$13 postpaid from: 
The Interstate Printers 
& Publishers, Inc. 
19-27 N. Jackson Street 
Danville, |L 61832 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The first step in contour farming is to establish a contour 
guide line that runs across the field almost at a constant 
level. All planting or farming operations will be done from 
this guide line. . 
. .Two people are needed—— one to use the 
level and one to be the target on which to take a sight and 
set the stakes. Equipment may consist of a hand level or a 
small carpenter’s level mounted on a T-shaped stick of light 
weight. .. 
. In locating the first contour guide line ona 
slope, the usual practice is to go to the highest point in 
the field and then walk straight down the general slope from 
this point a distance of from 80 to 100 feet, depending on 
the steepness of the slope. . 
. .After the location of the first 
guide line has been selected, a stake is set and leveling 
is started from that position. With the levelman at the 
starting point, the helper paces 50 to 100 feet across the 
slope, staying approximately on the contour. The level- 
man directs the helper up or down the slope until he is 
on the same level or contour as the levelman. The helper 
sets a stake at this position and the levelman moves to the 
second stake, the helper moving another 50 to 100 feet 
across the slope. This procedure is continued until the 
line crosses the field. 
SB 
Thao 
Pe 
ERG 
ct UES 
A pasture gully shaped and seeded to grass makes a 
useful waterway. 
The Organic Method Primer 
Within the organic gardening movement there are numer- 
ous schools of thought, and they are often contradictory. 
The advantage of The Organic Method Primer /s that the 
authors have made a compilation of the various beliefs 
and methods, and have added to them their own practical 
experience from years of teaching and gardening organic- 
ally. 
You can learn what a BioDynamic farmer would 
do in a given situation, and then compare that with the 
advice of a mulch gardener. For its length, it is one of 
the most comprehensive gardening books | have read — 
relatively “far out” subjects like biomagnetics are 
covered, but there is also solid advice on what to look 
for when you buy a mechanical shredder. 
The section on 
organic pest contro/ techniques is particularly complete; 
it would take a long time just to try all of the remedies 
that are described here. Note the quotation for 
instant soil technique. 
—Richard Nilsen 
The Organic 
Method Primer 
Bargyla and Gylver 
Rateaver 
1973; 257 pp. 
$1 1.50 postpaid from: 
Bargyla Rateaver 
Pauma Valley, CA 92061 
e 
Today the dirt in your garden is half mineral and the 
other half mostly air and water, with only 1% or so of it 
organic matter, maybe even as much as 5%... 
. Hardly 
anywhere can you find half the original layer of topsoil 
left; it is not only robbed of its organic content, but has 
been eroded away or blown away because it was no 
longer spongy enough to hold the water that fell on it. 
Your forefathers dug into that wonderful soil with 
destructive relish, and within a few years they had 
wrecked nearly all of it. Their sins are being visited 
on you. What can you do about it?... 
If you have heavy clay, adobe, or caliche, you must take 
the preliminary step of fluffing it up. The best way to do 
this is by digging in rice hulls. You will need enough to 
cover the area 3 feet deep. They are slippery slivers which 
slide into any opening so easily that you may be able to 
do the job with a spading fork. 
If the ground is baked 
hard, you will need atiller. 
First use a pick or the spading 
fork tines to nick little holes here and there, to give the 
tiller tines a toehold. Go over the bare ground 3 - 6 times 
to get a loose layer 3 inches or so thick. Then spread the 
hulls several inches deep and till 3 times. Add another 
layer of hulls and till again. Repeating this until the hulls 
are used up will give you a permanently good texture so 
that you never again have to worry about drainage or 
stickiness. Should the ground be too hard for even a 
Pick, soak it first and watch it carefully for just the right 
stage of dryness before you till it. This is a nuisance, but 
it is a once-in-a-lifetime job and worth the fuss. 
If you cannot get rice hulls, use buckwheat hulls, peanut 
shells or something similar. Should even these be unavail- 
able, use sawdust mixed with something granular, like 
coffee grounds (get from an instant coffee factory, or 
restaurants). The impostant thing is to use enough so 
that instead of clay with hulls (or whatever) in it, you 
have hulls with bits of clay init.... 
From this point on, the procedure is the same as with 
sandy soil. ADD ORGANIC MATTER! Add enough so 
that half your soil is organic material and half the original 
sand or amended clay. Gather and store your amend- 
ments until you have enough, then take a day to spread it 
one layer at atime andtillin.... 
Texture has so much bearing on the ease with which you 
can garden, that the ideal loam should be your first goal. 
Soil organisms will need nitrogen right away as they get 
to decomposing all this raw material, so spray the soil 
with fish emulsion and manure-weed-tea. Make the latter 
by soaking manure and weeds (especially stinging nettle) 
in unchlorinated water for days or weeks (the longer the 
better), and diluting it to a pale color. This is a good 
source of bacteria... 
. 
If you do not supply the extra nitrogen, there will be 
competition beween the soil organisms and your crop 
roots for it, and the crops will lose out. After a time, 
when the organisms have died, the nitrogen they used 
will go back to the soil from their decaying bodies, but 
in the meantime it is up to you to supply the need. 
