LAND USE 
TREES 
77 
} 
lant a tree — is there any more certain an undubious good? Good for 
|
the soil, good for the watershed, good for the atmosphere (trees 
eat CO>), good for the shade, good for the fruit, the firewood, the 
lumber, good for the aesthetics (Baker Roshi notes that nothing so affects 
people’s opinion of a city neighborhood as the presence or absence of trees), 
good for the continuity, good for climbing and tree houses, a cheap, easy, 
enjoyable investment with non-stop rewards. 
—SB 
The Oak Beams of New College, Oxford 
by Gregory Bateson 
I owe this story to a man who was I think a New College student and was 
head of the Department of Medicine at the University of Hawaii, where 
he told it to me. 
New College, Oxford, is of rather late foundation, hence the name. 
It was 
probably founded around the late 16th century. It has, like other colleges, 
a great dining hall with big oak beams across the top, yes? These might be 
eighteen inches square, twenty feet long. 
Some five to ten years ago, so I am told, some busy entomologist went up 
into the roof of the dining hall with a penknife and poked at the beams 
and found that they were full of beetles. This was reported to the College 
Council, who met in some dismay, because where would they get beams 
of that caliber nowadays? 
One of the Junior Fellows stuck his neck out and suggested that there might 
be on College lands some oak. These colleges are endowed with pieces of 
land scattered across the country. So they called in the College Forester, 
who of course had not been near the college itself for some years, and 
asked him about oaks. 
And he pulled his forelock and said, ““Well sirs, we was wonderin’ 
20 
when you'd be askin’. 
Upon further inquiry it was discovered that when the College was founded, a 
grove of oaks had been planted to replace the beams in the dining hall when 
they became beetly, because oak beams always become beetly in the end. 
This plan had been passed down from one Forester to the next for four 
hundred years. “You don’t cut them oaks. Them’s for the College Hall.” 
A nice story. That’s the way to run aculture. 
m= 
e 
Tree of Life 
(Reprinted from Manas, 14 March 1979) 
Twenty years ago an Englishwoman, Wendy 
Campbell-Purdy, having heard Richard St. Barbe 
Baker say that the spread of deserts could be 
stopped by a green wall of trees, bought a one-way 
ticket to North Africa and set to work planting 
trees. On forty-five acres of desert in Morocco 
(Tiznit), she planted 2,000 trees, and four years 
later they were twelve feet high. She proved that 
this manmade strip of oasis would change the 
climate (increase the surface humidity) by growing 
wheat and barley in the shelter the trees provided. 
Then she went to Algeria, where a reluctant 
Government gave her a 260-acre dump. The 
seedlings she set out there did so well that the 
astonished Algerian officials promised her help. 
She went home to England to raise some money, 
and eventually she formed the Bou Saada Trust 
to wage biological warfare against the Sahara. A 
few years later the 130,000 trees she had planted 
2a. 8,0 ©) a, ete) ©) 6 0.6 .¢ (6) @ (se. (6.66 0:6 le, 6) (6 @)s 6 jeve,'e 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
at Bou Saada (in Algeria) were flourishing and the 
fertile area they created was growing vegetables, 
citrus, and grain. Plans were then made to invade 
the great desert with the green things growing. 
How urgent is this campaign against deserts? 
In 
1977 a UN Conference on Desertification reported 
that the world’s desert areas are rapidly spreading. 
One third of the land surface of the Earth is now 
desert, and every year the Sahara gains 250,000 
acres of once-productive land. The lives of some 
630 million people are threatened in the regions of 
the world now turning into desert wasteland. 
The only thing to teach is how to fall in love, how 
to be ready to fall in love, what to do then to 
make it last, make it a lifetime thing, to teach how 
to find out more about the beloved, to build some- 
thing with the beloved, within the beloved, to 
teach all this perhaps before love ever happens so 
that when love comes be it of caterpillars or dead 
painters or wood and nails or computers that talk 
back, when it happens the feeling doesn’t dissipate 
into a hopeless infatuation — “it must be wonder- 
ful to do that, to know about that, but I can’t” 
— but is a release of power like real love that leads 
to knowing more because you know where to find it, 
to cherishing and building in this love because you 
know that someone can tell 
you how to do it and 
you keep looking until you find the one who can. 
Wendy Campbell-Purdy has recently formed a 
registered trust called Tree of Life to continue 
this project and undertake similar ones. The idea 
is to save “‘the vulnerable communities on the 
fringe of the Sahara and other world deserts by 
working with them to stop the deadly process of 
desertification, restore life to the land and protect 
the livelihood of the people.’’ An explanatory 
booklet, Tree of Life (c/o Coutts & Co., Dun- 
cannon Branch, 440 Strand, London WC2R OQS, 
England), describes the program: 
But teachers are afraid to teach love, and when 
they do, usually they teach “love what I love” 
(change your major) not the techniques and possi- 
bilities of taking something from the universe out- 
side your skin, anything from the universe outside 
you and making it part of you and helping it be 
‘Se 
itself and helping it go on, not just be a spectator, 
but lover of the thing you were born to love. 
(Schools don’t do that much, libraries probably 
do it more because they get out of the way and let 
it happen, remember the little kid who lived to 
look at Gauguin books in Goodbye, Columbus.) 
The Tree of Life evolved directly from the work of the 
Bou Saada Trust in Algeria. This successful pilot refor- 
estation scheme has now been incorporated in one of the 
world’s most ambitious tree-planting programs — the 
thousand-mile protective “‘green wall” right across 
Algeria. The first task of the Tree of Life is to set up 
similar pilot projects, in cooperation with the Govern- 
ments concerned, to continue the green wall along the 
entire northern edge of the Sahara desert. 
= 
Before and after tree planting at Bou Saada, Algeria. 
Ree 
Tens 
Sue 
S066 
686 
6 
6.6 
616 
COS 
HOMO 
COKE 
SETAE 
HM 
HTH 
HEF 
CH 
HES 
EOS 
HHL 
HHH 
HEHE 
HFC 
HOe 
