— 
7! To 
338 
COMMUNITY 
ELDERS 
A Good Age 
The best, most accessible work on the facts and fictions 
of oldness. Novelist, poet, gerontologist, and author of 
The Joy of Sex, Alex Comfort makes it clear that a good 
deal of what we think of as aging is not biological but 
social and psychological. 
Certain roles and patterns are 
imposed on people who have been around longer than 
some of the rest oftus. They are arbitrarily defined as 
unintelligent, unemployable, crazy, and asexual, 
despite all evidence to the contrary. Dr. Comfort calmly 
suggests revolt. 
Beautifully designed and illustrated with portraits of 
robust oldsters. Fine marshalling of facts to show that a 
good deal of what | believed about aging was nonsense. 
!n the long view, there are no young. Only the present 
old and (myself included) the new old. 
—Tom Ferguson, M.D. 
A Good Age 
Alex Comfort 
1976; 224 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid from: 
Simon & Schuster 
Attn: Order Department 
1230 Avenue of 
the Americas 
New York, NY 10020 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
What Do You Want to be 
When You Grow Old? 
It’s always nice when someone marshals the facts to 
debunk some weepy liberal bummer. Dienstfrey and 
Lederer do that and more. 
Their cleanly-written book 
presents a compassionate and positive picture of old age, 
a condition very different from the alienated gray night- 
mare we may assume. What Do You Want to be... ? 
contains revisionist information on retirement communi- 
ties and trailer camps, remarriages, relationships between 
the old and their children, and the prospects for rehabili- 
tation after stroke; it describes the value of senior centers 
and hospices; it explains the social security system and a 
proposal for its radical revision. 
The book’s design (by Yolla Bolly press) is very high-class 
for a paperback. 
It gracefully integrates photographs, 
cartoons, and several types of marginalia. 
Anyone who is planning to live past retirement or caring 
about older parents or grandparents might find this book 
useful. 
It challenges the reader to consider what she 
wants her old age to be, and offers an array of true 
options, success stories, and possibilities. 
—Stephanie Mills 
The Massage Book 
People rubbing people is always nice. People rubbing 
people with skill is an order of magnitude nicer. 
This was 
the first book on massage-for-pleasure, and it is still far 
and away the best. Everyone should have this skill. 
It’s 
easily gotten from the book — plus a friend, telling you 
how you're doing. “Mmmmhh.” 
—SB 
The Massage Book 
George Downing 
1971; 200 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Bookworks 
Random House 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
1 Before anything else | like to hold my palms lightly 
against my friend’s forehead for a few moments. Cover 
the forehead with the heels of your hands, letting the 
fingers extend down the temples. Apply no pressure. 
Pause as long as seems right and comfortable to you; a 
few seconds, half a minute, whatever. Center yourself. 
Let your friend grow accustomed to your touch. 
2 Now begin massaging your friend’s forehead with the 
balls of your thumbs. 
First mentally divide the forehead 
into horizontal strips about a half an inch wide. Then, 
starting with your thumbs at the center of the forehead 
just below the hairline, glide both thumbs at once in 
either direction outwards along the topmost strip. Press 
moderately; use about the pressure it takes to stick a 
stamp on an envelope. Continue all the way to the 
temples, a surprisingly sensitive place, and end there by 
moving your thumbs in a single circle about half an inch 
wide. Immediately pick up your thumbs, return them to 
the center of the forehead, and begin the next strip down, 
again moving your thumbs from the center outwards. 
Then, working progressively downwards, do each of the 
others in turn, ending with a strip running just above your 
friend's eyebrows. Remember to conclude each strip with 
another small circle on the temples —a 
flourish not 
_ 
strictly necessary, but your friend will feel it’s very ‘right.’ 
What Do You 
Want to be When 
You Grow Old? 
Harris Dienstfrey and 
Joseph Lederer 
1979; 301 pp. 
$2.75 postpaid from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, |L 60016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
More than 80 percent of the people sixty-five and over 
see their children at least once every two weeks. Note 
that the statistic speaks of parents seeing their children. 
They live close to one another; the children aren't scat- 
tered helter-skelter over the country. (For the record, 
the physical contact extends to the third generation: 
Three-fourths of the people over sixty-five see their 
grandchildren at least once every two weeks.) 
e 
Even with general agreement between husband and 
wife about where to live in retirement, they may not 
be ready for a future of unrelieved togetherness. 
It 
is not unusual for newly retired couples to be found 
constantly bickering. 
Over 50 
An excellent book that warrants its subtitle, “The Defin- 
itive Guide.” It’s for anyone who is thinking about 
their own problems of growing old. 
—Michael Phillips 
Over 50 
(The Definitive Guide 
to Retirement) 
Auren Uris 
1979; 613 pp. 
$1 7.95 postpaid from: 
Chilton Book Company 
Sales Service Department 
Chilton Way 
Radnor, PA 19089 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
There are all those things you‘ve planned to give away or 
bequeath eventually anyway. Why not start to do it now? 
Not only will the donees get more pleasure out of them 
(hopefully), but you'll be able to observe their pleasure, 
3 The next stroke is for the rim of the eye sockets. With 
Karen, Baroness Blixen, the 
supremely gifted short-story 
writer, was Danish, but wrote 
a 
‘ 
most of her books in English 
. 
hoe 
: 
under the pseudonym Isak 
. \ ae 
Dinesen. 
Her first book, 
‘i 
; 
Seven Gothic Tales, was 
published in 1934, when she 
was forty-nine. Shadows in 
the Grass, her last, appeared when 
Pa 
she was seventy-six, one year before 
her death. 
% 
° 
%, 
Dignity. Stand on this. 
If other people don’t recognize it, ~ 
4 
put them down — other older people depend upon the 
degree to which you ensure that anyone who thought- 
lessly displays agism doesn‘t get away with it. React to 
people who talk slightingly about seniors (‘old buffer,’’ 
“old biddy,” ‘dirty old man,” ‘‘old lady in tennis shoes"’) 
in the way that black people have learned to react to 
people who talk slightingly about ‘‘niggers."” Tell them 
you don’t appreciate that sort of language. Your 
reaction will give them a salutary shock. Usually they 
mean no harm, but need their heads changed, to see older 
people as people, and only incidentally or secondarily as 
old. Don’t put up with being addressed by nurses, aides 
and others as ‘’Granny,”’ ‘‘Pop”’ or the like. Point out 
acidly that you have a name and if they don’t know it 
they can damn well ask, and that you were earning a 
living when they were still eating baby food. 
a 
When | was young | was amazed at Plutarch’s statement 
that the elder Cato began at the age of eighty to learn 
Greek. 
| am amazed no longer. Old age is ready to under- 
take tasks that youth shirked because they would take 
too long. 
—W. Somerset Maugham 
LINEAR LIFE PLAN 
CYCLIC LIFE PLAN 
b 
20 
ZZ, worktime 
0 
(J) education and leisure 
while being relieved of the necessity to maintain, make 
room for, insure or otherwise spend money on them. 
And to the extent that your gifts are to approved charities, 
the tax benefits can be much more important now than 
they will be later. 
For other things, the years between now and retirement 
may be the best time for a gigantic ‘’garage sale,’’ so to 
speak. 
It goes without saying that you won't get as much 
for anything as you really know it is worth. But selling 
something when you have time to say yes or no to an 
offer can bring in a lot more than selling it in those last 
few hurried months or weeks before you take off for the 
South Seas. A detailed household inventory can prove 
invaluable at this point. By marking each item “‘sell,’” 
“keep,”’ “give away,” or just “’?’’ you can begin on paper 
the process of trimming your excess baggage, and getting 
into shape for traveling light. 
e 
Protection from stretching 
When washing the face, use as little manipulation as 
possible. You face doesn’t need scrubbing. Washing using 
only the fingertips is a good method. And, when cleansing 
the face, avoid any pulling of the skin in the eye area. 
Any eye rubbing habit should also be broken. 
Another culprit is smoking. Aside from being generally 
bad for the health, it causes many small wrinkles because 
of associated faeial movements. 
(Just another good 
reason to quit.) 
oe 
a 
~ 
the tips of both forefingers press first against the bony 
<7 
rims of the two eye sockets right where they connect 
with the nose. Press quite hard for about one full second. 
Then lift your forefingers, move them about a third of an 
inch along the upper half of each rim, and press again. 
Pressing in this fashion is good for the sinuses, and in this 
particular spot it also feels better to most people than a 
rubbing movement. 
Continue in this fashion, moving about a third of an inch 
each time you press, until you have reached the outer- 
most point of each eye socket (i.e., the point farthest 
from the nose). Then return to the point nearest the nose 
and begin again, this time working the length of the lower 
half of the rim. 
e 
Finally, for the coup de grace, tell your friend to listen to 
the sound inside his head. And then, moving with extreme 
slowness and gentleness, close both his ear channels with 
the tips of your forefingers. 
(Be sure to close both sides 
at once; nothing will happen if one ear is closed alone.) 
Keep them closed for about fifteen to thirty seconds. 
Although some people don’t care for this, many enjoy 
a brief but pleasant journey. 
