WHOLE SYSTEMS 
~ EARTH RE SOURCES 
eee 
eT 
ee 
ee 
ae eee 
» 
Worldwatch Papers 
What Amnesty International does for political imprison- 
ment and torture, what the Council on Economic Priori- 
ties does for American business and government, Lester 
Brown's Worldwatch Institute does for environmental 
(and occasionally economic) problems worldwide. 
All 
three are private, highly respected, and widely used 
in the press. 
In its five or so years Worldwatch has managed to become 
prolific in its output without sacrificing quality. The stuff 
is solidly researched, gently presented, and sometimes 
quite original — such as Erik Eckholm’s celebrated report 
on the world firewood shortage. Even more remarkable, 
the work is politically astute and politically pointed 
without any limiting flavor of Leftness. 
For outstanding (and frequent) environmental reporting, 
! can think of no better source. 
—SB 
Worldwatch Institute 
$25 /year 
Worldwatch Papers 
(back issues) 
$2 each postpaid from: 
Worldwatch Institute 
1776 Massachusetts Ave., NW 
Washington, D.C. 20036 
The Worldwatch Paper Series 
1. The Other Energy Crisis: 
Firewood by Erik Eckholm. 
2. The Politics and 
Responsibility of the North 
American Breadbasket by Lester R. Brown. 
3. Women in Politics: A Global Review by 
Kathleen Newland. 
4. Energy: The Case for Conservation by Denis Hayes. 
5. Twenty-two Dimensions of the Population Problem 
by Lester R. Brown, Patricia L. McGrath, and 
Bruce Stokes. 
6. Nuclear Power: The Fifth Horseman by Denis Hayes. 
7. The Unfinished Assignment: Equal Education for 
Women by Patricia L. McGrath. 
8. World Population Trends: Signs of Hope, Signs of 
Stress by Lester R. Brown. 
9. The Two Faces of Malnutrition by Erik Eckholm 
and Frank Record. 
10. Health: The Family Planning Factor by Erik 
Eckholm and Frank Record. 
11. Energy: The Solar Prospect by Denis Hayes. 
12. Filling the Family Planning Gap by Bruce Stokes. 
13. Spreading Deserts — The Hand of Man by Erik 
Eckholm and Lester R. Brown. 
14. Redefining National Security by Lester R. Brown. 
15. Energy for Development: Third World Options 
by Denis Hayes. 
16. Women and Population Growth: Choice Beyond 
Childbearing by Kathleen Newland. 
17. Local Responses to Global Problems: A Key to 
Meeting Basic Human Needs by Bruce Stokes. 
18. Cutting Tobacco’s Toll by Erik Eckholm. 
19. The Solar Energy Timetable by Denis Hayes. 
20. The Global Economic Prospect: New Sources of 
Economic Stress by Lester R. Brown. 
21. Soft Technologies, Hard Choices by Colin Norman. 
22. Disappearing Species: The Social Challenge by 
Erik Eckholm. 
23. Repairs Reuse, Recycling — First Steps Toward a 
Sustainable Society by Denis Hayes. 
24. The Worldwide Loss of Cropland by Lester 
R. Brown. 
25. Worker Participation — Productivity and the Quality 
of Work Life by Bruce Stokes. 
26. Planting for the Future: Forestry for Human Needs 
by Erik Eckholm 
27. Pollution: The Neglected Dimensions by Denis Hayes. 
28. Global Employment and Economic Justice: The 
Policy Challenge by Kathleen Newland. 
29. Resource Trends and Population Policy: A Time for 
Reassessment by Lester R. Brown. 
30. The Dispossessed of the Earth: Land Reform and 
Sustainable Development by Erik Eckholm. 
31. Knowledge and Power: The Global Research and 
Development Budget by Colin Norman. 
32. The Future of the Automobile in an Oil-Short 
World by Lester R. Brown, Christopher Flavin, and 
Colin Norman. 
33. International Migration: The Search for Work by 
Kathleen Newland. 
34. Inflation: The Rising Cost of Living on a Small 
Planet by Robert Fuller. 
35. Food or Fuel: New Competition for the World’s 
Cropland by Lester R. Brown. 
36. Synthetic Materials: The Shifting Balance by 
Christopher Flavin. 
37. Women at Work by Kathleen Newland. 
© 
The lack of a population policy is a national luxury that 
the world can ill afford. 
If population policies are to be 
intelligent, and if demographic projections are to be 
meaningful, most countries need far more information on 
the sustainable yields of their grasslands, forests, crop- 
lands, and fisheries. The scarcity of data in most areas 
points to the need for assessments of the carrying 
capacity of local biological systems under varying demand 
pressures and levels of management. 
. 
. 
. 
—Resource Trends and Population Policy: A Time 
for Reassessment 
Soil and Civilization 
Edward Hyams writes the first and best “watershed 
history” of ancient and present civilizations. Rather than 
focusing on the genius of Pericles or the naval talents of 
Themistocles, he focuses on the ultimate, long-term 
strength of Greece or any nation: its soil. He elegantly 
chronicles, for instance, how oak forest cutting led to 
topsoil erosion creating a subsoil economy (olives and 
vineyards) which made Athens dependent on naval trade 
to get topsoil crops (wheat). Includes the Euphrates and 
America’s dustbowl!. 
/f one book on history should be 
read by everyone, | would choose Soil and Civilization. 
—Peter Warshal/ 
Soil and Civilization 
Edward Hyams 
1976; 315 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
Harper Colophon Books 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The ecologists of America, and the practical men working 
to their plans, have found that they can restore dead soils 
to life by recreating upon them a “‘natural’’ and balanced 
soil community. They begin by introducing some 
undemanding weed which will colonize the most exhausted 
soils, they gradually introduce nobler vegetable species; 
they have to work with great care and great insight, 
balancing species against species, making sure that the 
trees they plant, when that becomes possible, will find 
themselves able to establish a mode of life with the 
ground plants. In the course of time species intrude of 
their own accord, and the ecologist has to decide whether 
these intruders shall or shall not be allowed to stay. 
Some of the artificially introduced species may grow too 
Prosperous at the expense of others, and must be checked; 
others, too meek, encouraged. 
In time animal species 
are introduced, some living off the vegetation, and others, 
predatory on the former, to hold them in balance. The 
work must be like building a house of cards, excepting 
that when every single feat of delicate balance has been 
successfully accomplished, then the equilibrium of the 
finished artifact will be massive, not precarious. Now this 
creative ecology, if that will do as a name for it, is unques- 
tionably an art: aesthetic insight, right feeling for the 
grain of life is what must animate it. 
/ 
* Kalahari 
Map of World Distribution of Arid Regions 
Not only an image to ponder on your wall, but nice 
details — where desert is encroaching and why, whether 
by human or animal pressure and what the /ocal vulnera- 
bilities are — salinization, alkalinisation, topsoil runoff, 
exposure of hardpan, etc. All put together, a big 
grim picture. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Ron Hendricks] 
Map of World 
Distribution of Arid 
Regions (UNESCO) 
(2' x 3' map and 
53-page booklet) 
$16.50 postpaid from: 
Unipub 
345 Park Avenue South 
New York, NY 10010 
Picvel 
pra 
Sic 
se 
606 
« 
6s: 
0 6 
© © 
6) 
6 6 ee 
w 
C\p) 
6 © 6 6 
6 
68'S 
6 
8/60 
0 46 
SF 
Ole 
iete 
Doty 
CCH 
HRO 
SOC 
KOC 
HHO 
SCE 
EO 
He 
Losing Ground 
Desperate news. Firewood is disappearing in the world. 
So are mountain environments, irrigation systems, fisheries, 
rain forests, and soil. Chapters from this book have 
appeared as major articles in Science, Natural History, 
and elsewhere because of Eckho/m’s uniquely detailed 
perspective on environmental degradation in the Third 
and “Fourth” (impoverished) World. From there the 
planetary picture is stark. 
—SB 
Losing Ground 
(Environmental Stress 
and World Food Prospects) 
| 
Erik P. Eckholm 
} 
1976; 219 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
W.W. Norton & Co., Inc. 
500 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10036 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
By the mid-twentieth century, said the Chinese minister 
of forestry in 1956, the country had “the greatest number 
of barren hills in the world.” Throughout much of the 
country only temple groves remained as a reminder of the 
Original tree-covered landscape. 
6 
Ecologically sound planning requires concern for the next 
decade, the next generation and beyond; only the strong 
and vocal support — or insistence — of an informed 
citizenry can allow — or force — leaders to depart from 
their usual fixation on the next month or year. A wide- 
spread public understanding of the ecological danger is 
ultimately the prime weapon for fighting any commercial 
interests — whether highly placed timber concessionaires 
in Indonesia or Pakistan or corporate farmers in Central 
America — threatened by environmental protection 
measures. 
If powerful economic and political interests 
oppose necessary reforms, then a stronger political force 
is necessary to override them, and information about the 
nature of the threats to well-being is essential for building 
such a coalition. This is broadly true of virtually all 
political systems — not just democracies. 
Experience has proven that sound treatment of the land 
cannot be decreed by officials — particularly those viewed 
as alien or oppressive — and then forced upon people who 
do not understand why changes in their habits are 
necessary. 
Faced with serious soil erosion in their African 
colonies, the British in the 1940s and 1950s tried the 
coercive approach, and by any account the ultimate 
results were abysmal. 
© 
efor ee ieee ee 
210) eee 
© (ewe fe 6 
0 
0)'s e962) a) 8 
6 we 0 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
continued from last spread 
There are essays in the front of each of the 48 
books about Agriculture and History and Labor 
and the like and they’re pretty good, often 
written unsignedly by later famous writers and the 
labor part is more workery than anything you'd 
ever believe the Federal government would publish 
today, but the great part is the back. There are 
detailed tours which tell about the lay of the land 
in general and occasionally burst down into 6 
point type and say something like: 
“Right on this road paralleling Dingman’s Creek 
to the junction with a private dirt road (open daily 
in summer months) 0.4 miles; R. here, across the 
creek, to a parking space 1.1 m.; from which a 
footpath leads 400 yards to SILVER THREAD 
FALLS (adm. 25 cents), a giant step in the creek’s 
953-foot descent in a seven-mile course. The 
abundance of game is indicated by the signs 
requesting visitors not to take bear cubs or baby 
deer out of the woods. One third of a mile distant, 
on a.similar path, is larger DINGMAN’S FALLS, 
177 feet high; trees, ferns, and spray-drenched 
moss fringe the foaming white water.”’ 
That’s about Pennsylvania. I figure things aren’t 
quite like that now, but you read that and if 
you're in Pennsylvania you notice how much it’s 
changed or how much it’s the same and either way 
you start paying attention, see a little depth in 
time around you. Whether this land is made for 
you and me or you and me were made for this 
land, reading a bunch of stuff like that couldn’t 
hurt. If I said all libraries have all the guide books, 
I'd be lying, but not much. What was the place 
you live like in 1934? Even if you were there, I 
bet you don’t remember. Look in the card catalog 
under Federal Writers’ Project. (One way for us 
post-war babies to find out what we hath wrought.) 
