—_ee—osxvx—weeeeeee———— 
F ireplaces 
Ken Kern adds a worthy addition to his Owner Builder 
series with this excellent manual on building a successful 
fireplace. 
(If you think a good fireplace is easy to build, 
just consider how many awful, smoky 
recalcitrant black 
holes you‘ve had to contend with.) As expected, the 
authors patiently go over the theory, and follow up with 
an unprecedented presentation of the tiniest details and 
tricks of the trade so necessary to good performance. 
They are particularly excellent when explaining how to 
do hot water systems and heater arrangements, including 
integrated solar. This is by far the best book on the subject. 
—J. Baldwin 
Fireplaces 
Ken Kern and 
Steve Magers 
1978; 192 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
Owner Builder Publications 
Box 817 
North Fork, CA 93643 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
i 
The throat, with its thin slit opening, works in conjunction 
with the more voluminous expansion chamber to promote 
a rapid flow of hot gases upward from the firebox, much 
as the Venturi principle increases lift on an air foil or car- 
buretor flow in a gasoline engine. At the time this is hap- 
pening, cold air from above is arrested by the throat in 
its fall down the chimney. 
It accumulates in the larger 
expansion chamber, where it is warmed and its flow is 
reversed. Hot air rushing upward through the throat 
impedes the entrance of these downdrafts into the firebox. 
It has been determined that the cross-sectional area of the 
throat must be approximately equal to the cross-sectional 
area of the flue. The placement of the throat should be 
toward the front of the firebox, considerably above the 
breast. Thus, smoke will not be able to find its way into 
the room. 
Ironically, the same principle that causes the chimney to 
function well is also the force that must be overcome to 
maintain the heat efficiency of the firebox. 
If the chimney 
flue draws too well, the effect will be counter-productive. 
A large firebox opening and flue can easily draw more 
heated room air than they contribute in radiant heat to 
the house. Therefore, 
we do not recommend that fireplace 
openings be larger than 42 inches in width. Beyond this 
opening width, a fireplace gives diminishing returns unless 
an inordinate amount of wood is wastefully burned to 
==" rectify heat losses. 
This cantilevered design dispenses with the necessity to 
use metal support posts, which are unattractive and block 
one’s view of the fire. This modified firebox will radiate 
slightly more heat than one with full covings. Although 
it reacts temperamentally when a fire is first lit, it draws 
well once the chimney is hot. Occasionally, it will smoke 
when a breeze from an opening blows across the fire. 
Curing Smoky Fireplaces 
First aid for that most obnoxious of fireplace flaws. 
; 
—J. Baldwin 
Curing Smoky 
Fireplaces 
(Garden Way Bulletin 
A-41) 
1980; 32 pp. 
$1 postpaid from: 
Garden Way 
Publishing Company 
Charlotte, VT 05545 
In the first illustration, smoke flows out of the fireplace. 
This flow is 
directed up the chimney when a log holder holds the fire higher off the 
hearth and close to the fireplace back, and when a hood is added to the 
front of the fireplace 
Adobe Fireplaces 
Plans for the traditional corner adobe fireplace. 
—Lloyd Kahn 
Adobe Fireplaces 
Myrtle Stedman 
1977; 16 pp. 
$2.50 postpaid from: 
The Sunstone Press 
P.O. Box 2321 
Santa Fe, NM 87501 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Cooking on a large Lorena stove in Guatemala. 
Lorena Owner-Built Stoves 
Our book details the design and construction of an 
innovative highly efficient cookstove, originally developed 
in highland Guatemala (and taught in stove building 
workshops in California and Oregon). 
The stove costs 
almost nothing to make, yet saves half or more of the 
firewood normally used in cooking. Some 80 percent of 
the energy consumption in rural areas of the Third World 
is for cooking, and many of these same areas are suffering 
from major deforestation problems. Lorena stoves thus 
appear to offer a very important tool in fighting defores- 
tation, extending traditional fuel supp lies, and easing the 
burden of long-distance hauling of wood by millions of 
people, Another low technology ‘plug’ as energy ‘resource.’ 
Curiously, by relying on easily learned skills brought into 
communities via footpaths, these stoves seem likely to 
have much greater impact than the kind of high-tech 
integrated solar photovoltaic/windgenerator/ biogas 
systems being proposed by some international agencies, 
among the villages of the world. (Having bought into the 
‘Biogas Bonanza’ ourselves 5% years ago, we are surprised 
at the advantages offered by simple improved stoves.) 
—Ken Darrow, Volunteers in Asia 
Lorena Owner- 
Built Stoves 
lanto Evans 
1979; 80 pp. 
$3.59 postpaid from: 
Volunteers in Asia 
Box 4543 
Stanford, CA 94305 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Make a row of small holes in the damper. A thin nail 
placed through one of these holes will allow you to adjust 
the depth of the damper in the stove tunnel. 
Masonry Stove Guild Newsletter 
Masonry Stove Plans 
Joining the Masonry Guild gets you this newsletter, which 
— though skinny — is all we have. It is the beginning of 
a gathering of information on masonry stoves, ovens and 
heaters, and the people who know how to make them. 
Eventually there will be a definitive book. 
These big, 
heavy structures are perhaps the most efficient way to 
burn wood. A clever design can cook, bake, heat water, 
and heat the house. 
The huge thermal mass keeps the 
heat for a long time. 
They've been doing it in Europe 
(including Russia and Finland) for a long long time. 
If 
masonry stoves interest you, then your support and/or 
information contribution would be most welcome. In 
case you wondered, a masonry stove can be wedded to a 
solar collector. 
It’s being tried now. 
—J. Baldwin 
$5 with Guild membership 
from: 
Maine Wood Heat Co. 
R.F.D. 1 Box 38 
Norridgewock, ME 04957 
Masonry Stove 
Guild Newsletter 
R.F. in progress showing four of the five arches used in 
its construction. At left front is firebox followed by oven 
door. Around corner out of sight is warming oven, then 
cleanout access and at rear is arch reducing heat transfer 
wall to single brick thickness. 
Slot on left side will receive 
boiler pipes. 
Complete plans and instructions for construction and 
operation of a masonry stove. 
The plans look easy 
enough to use, but it’s gonna take patience as there is 
a lot to it. 
—J. Baldwin 
[Suggested by Thomas A. McCarey] 
$1 0 postpaid from: 
Basilio Lepuschenko 
Alexandra Road 
Richmond, ME 04357 
Masonry Stove Plans 
(An original design adapt- 
ing the masonry stove 
for American materials) 
Basilio Lepuschenko 
Heat with flowerpots 
| know a few things that might be of interest to other CO 
readers (old-world-hints). Maybe you know them already, 
but what the hell! 
First, the flowerpot-heater (an old 
trick from my mother from World War I when coal was 
scarce) for people with freezing kitchens and gas stoves 
(like me). Instead of turning on an electrical heater, 
light the burner and place a big empty unglazed clay 
flowerpot (the red kind with a hole in the bottom that 
sell for a few pennies at garden supplies stores) upside- 
down over the flame. The pot will get hot very fast and 
reflect the heat much more efficiently than the flame 
alone. (Don’t touch the pot, it might get red-hot!) 
In a short time your kitchen will be warm and cozy. 
—Barbara Besser 
Munster, W. Germany 
(Make sure pot is dry or it'll explode. 
—J. Baldwin) 
