RADICAL AGRICULTURE 
~ 
Radical Agriculture 
Living the Good Life 
The range and quality of material assembled in this one 
book make it unique. Merrill, a west-coast New Alchem- 
ist, has a list of contributors that reads like a Who’s Who 
of the alternative agriculture movement — Wendell Berry, 
John Todd, Jim Hightower, Michael Perelman, Peter 
Barnes — to name a few. The essays are well balanced 
between critiques of what’s wrong with modern agricul- 
ture and explanations of what some of the possible 
alternatives are: self-sustaining agriculture, urban poly- 
culture farming, aquaculture, community food organiz- 
ing, biological pest control. 
The buzz you can get reading here comes not from revelling 
in fantasies for romantic ex-urbanites, but from discover- 
ing chunks of an emerging, workable agricu/tural future. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Radical Agriculture 
Richard Merrill, Editor 
1976, 459 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid from: 
Harper and Row 
General Books 
Keystone | ndustrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
CONTENTS 
Radical Agriculture Murray Bookchin 
Where Cities and Farms Come Together Wendel/ Berry 
Land Reform in America Peter Barnes 
Agribusiness Nick Kotz 
Corporate Accountability and the Family Farm 
Sheldon L. Greene 
Efficiency in Agriculture: The Economics of Energy 
Michael Perelman 
Hard Tomatoes, Hard Times: The Failure of the Land 
Grant College Complex Jim Hightower 
The Green Revolution: American Agriculture in the 
Third World Michael Perelman 
The National Sharecroppers Fund and the Farm Co-op 
Movement in the South Robin Myers 
The Invisible Workers: Labor Organization on 
American Farms George L. Baker 
Land Disputes at the Urban-Rural Border Pau/ Relis 
Urban-Rural Food Alliances: A Perspective on Recent 
Community Food Organizing Darry! McLeod 
Organic Force Jerome Goldstein 
Polyculture Farming in the Cities Warren Pierce 
A Modest Proposal: Science for the People John Todd 
Toward a Self-Sustaining Agriculture Richard Merrill 
Aquaculture: Toward an Ecological Approach 
William O. McLarney 
Insect Population Management in Agro-Ecosystems 
Helga and William Olkowski 
Small-Scale Utilization of Solar Energy John F. E/ter 
Local Energy Production for Rural Homesteads 
and Communities Dona/d Marier and Ronald Weintraub 
ean 
Malabar Farm 
Bromfield was a Pulitzer Prize-winning author who at the 
start of Hitler’s war returned to his boyhood home in 
north central Ohio, bought several worn-out farms, estab- 
lished something which would probably be called a 
commune if it were done today (it wasn't called that 
as Bromfield and the people associated with him were 
ultra-respectable), and proceeded to use good conserva- 
tion practices and numerous innovations to restore his 
land to fertility and health. 
—Pat Patterson 
Malabar Farm 
Louis Bromfield 
1947, 1976; 470 pp. 
$1 5.95 postpaid from: 
Amereon Ltd. 
P.O. Box 1200 
Mattituck, NY 11952 
e 
Ail our contour plowing, cover crops, and strip cropping 
have paid us great dividends. Throughout the drought 
when farms all over Ohio were hauling water, our springs 
kept up their flow, because the methods we took to stop 
erosion and the run-off of surface water had stored up 
great quantities of water underground. When we came 
here about 80 percent of the water in a heavy rainstorm 
ran off the place; today we keep on the place 80 to 90 
percent of the rain that falls, trapped by sod, contours, 
Some decades ago Scott Nearing gave up an academic 
career and retreated to the Vermont woods with his wife 
Helen, where they promptly began to rediscover for 
themselves how to stay alive in the North Temperate 
Zone. 
Their advice is in this book. 
They perfected a way 
of living into the winter on crops taken in the summer 
from ingeniously constructed gardens and they relied — 
perhaps more than anyone today will care to rely — ona 
division of their labors between the hands and the head. 
They were a two person community. 
They never wasted 
anything (it will drive you mad to hear their paens of 
praise for used motor oil), they tried to ignore machines 
wherever possible, they tried to live on a cash-less basis 
(and largely succeeded), and they annoyed their old- 
timey Vermont neighbors by living in a more down-to- 
earth life than the Vermonters ever could and showing 
them how to maple sugar and farm. They beat them at 
their own game, and for thirty years it worked — until 
the ski crowds began to turn utopia into suburbia. 
The 
Nearings fled to Maine and started all over again. 
—Stephan Chodorov 
Living the Good Life 
(How to Live Sanely 
and Simply ina 
Troubled World) 
Helen and Scott Nearing 
1954, 1970; 214 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Schocken Books 
200 Madison 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The most formidable problem was not the soil but 
the climate. 
e 
We would attempt to carry on this self-subsistent economy 
by the following steps: (1) Raising as much of our own 
food as local soil and climatic conditions would permit. 
(2) Bartering our products for those which we could not 
or did not produce. 
(3) Using wood for fuel and cutting 
it ourselves. 
(4) Putting up our own buildings with stone 
and wood from the place, doing the work ourselves. 
(5) 
Making such implements as sleds, drays, stoneboats, 
gravel screens, ladders. 
(6) Holding down to the barest 
minimum the number of implements, tools, gadgets and 
machines which we might buy from the assembly lines of 
big business. 
(7) If we had to have such machines for a 
few hours or days ina 
year (plough, tractor, rototiller, 
bull-dozer, chainsaw), we would rent or trade them from 
local people instead of buying and owning them. 
e 
We chose stone for several reasons. Stone buildings 
seem a natural out-cropping of the earth. Thev blend 
into the landscape and are a part of it. We like the varied 
color and character of the stones, which are lying around 
unused on most New England farms. Stone houses are 
poised, dignified and solid — sturdy in appearance and in 
fact, standing as they do for generations. They are cheaper 
to maintain, needing no paint, little or no upkeep or repair. 
They will not burn. They are cooler in summer and 
warmer in winter. 
If, combined with all these advantages, 
we could build them economically, we were convinced 
that stone was the right material for our needs. 
Continuing the Good Life 
A continuation of the saga begun in Living the Good Life, 
this book chronicles the Nearings’ move from Vermont to 
a “new” homestead in Maine, and the experiences they 
have gathered by living there since 1952. Few of us are 
as purposeful as the Nearings, but in an era of fads that 
last for 15 seconds, they are a tonic. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Continuing the 
Good Life 
(Half a Century 
of Homesteading) 
Helen and Scott Nearing 
1979; 194 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Schocken Books 
200 Madison Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
One of our first moves in Maine was to visit the local 
county agent and consult with him about the advisability 
of hybrid blueberries as a cash crop in Maine. 
His advice 
was brief and decisive: ‘‘Don’t waste money or time plant- 
ing them; they won't survive our cold winters."” As we 
had grown them in the much colder Vermont climate, 
we thought they would survive in Maine, so we started 
with a few plants in our garden and then chose a quarter- 
acre plot of sandy loam, sloping to the south and west, 
lying to the east of our chosen pond site. The area had 
not been plowed or cultivated in recent years. Some of 
the white birch and spruce trees on the plot were a foot 
in diameter. 
We cleared about a hundred feet square of this vigorous 
young forest. We cut all trees and brush as close as 
possible to the ground. We carted the brush away and 
piled it in a hollow along a small adjoining stream. The 
trees we cut up for firewood. 
In the autumn we mulched 
the entire patch with a layer of spruce sawdust and piled 
onas much spoiled hay as we could gather together. We 
did not plow, harrow or otherwise turn over the land. We 
dug no stumps. We merely planted around them. 
(In the 
early years the blueberry land was full of tree roots. As 
time passed and we continued mulching and weeding, 
the roots rotted out, enriching the land. After a dozen 
years the patch was virtually free of stumps and roots.) 
e 
How many hybrid blueberries do we pick each year? 
In 1957 we picked 5% quarts; in 1958, 60 quarts; in 
1960, 120 quarts. Ina word, it was seven years before 
we had blueberries for sale. Thereafter the pick rose 
steadily to 655 quarts in 1965; 1034 quarts in 1970; 
and 1296 in 1971, which was our banner year. Since then 
we pick around 800 quarts. 
and strips. 
It sinks deep into the earth to replenish 
the reservoirs in the great crevasses in the underlying 
sandstone rock. 
e 
The proper use of the land plusa simple program of game 
food and cover has certainly paid big dividends in fish, 
birds, and game. Everywhere at Malabar, since we estab- 
lished the farm as a game propagation area, the popula- 
tion of wild life has doubled and redoubled, again and 
again. Once the area becomes saturated, the excess 
population moves off into the neighboring territory where 
it provides sport for hunters. We do not shoot on the 
farm and allow no shooting but the sportsmen benefit 
enormously by the closed season on this large area. 
Big 
fox-squirrel, fox, raccoon and rabbits are especially 
abundant. Of course there is always plenty of quail (on 
which in Ohio there is no season) and some grouse and 
pheasant although the foxes kill off the latter pretty rapidly. 
e 
The whole theory of the ability of healthy plants grown 
in organically balanced and complete, mineralized soils to 
resist disease and even to some extent attacks by insects 
is not altogether new, either in the field of research 
among highly skilled market gardeners or among intelli- 
gent amateurs, but it is largely unknown in general 
agriculture. The theory of putting into the soil the means 
of resistance rather than applying it externally by dusts 
and sprays is much more revolutionary and comparatively 
little has been done along these lines. 
Hard Tomatoes, Hard Times 
America’s Land Grant College system, potentially one of 
the greatest too/s ever devised for the small farmer, no 
longer serves him. Hard Tomatoes te//s why. The system 
has become a corporate domain while farmers are going 
bankrupt by the thousands. 
This book was of interest 
to Congress and will be to anyone concerned about the 
future of small farming. 
—Rosemary Menninger 
Hard Tomatoes, 
Hard Times 
Jim Hightower 
1972; 268 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
Schenkman Publishing Co. 
3 Mt. Auburn Place 
Harvard Square 
Cambridge, MA 02138 
