88 PHOTOGRAPHY 
On Photography 
/f you have any interest in photography you must read 
Susan Sontag’s book. 
The six essays were originally 
published from 1973 to 1977 in The New York Review 
of Books, but they are more interesting when read as 
consecutive chapters. 
It is fascinating to watch Sontag’s 
we//-honed intelligence trying to make sense out of the 
seemingly “simple and mechanical” medium of photog- 
raphy. 
There are lots of false starts and contradictions 
between essays, but that is the fun of it. Sontag must 
have written a hundred sentences beginning “Photography 
is...” before she got it right: 
“... photography is not, 
to begin with, an art form at all. Like language, it is a 
medium in which works of art (among other things) 
are made.” 
Books on photography 
aren’t supposed to win the 
National Book Award, but this one did. 
—Andrew Williams 
On Photography 
Susan Sontag 
1978; 207 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
Dell Publishing Company 
One Dag Hammar- 
skjold Plaza 
245 East 47th Street 
New York, NY 10017 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
s 
In these last decades, 
“concerned” photography 
has done at least as much 
to deaden conscience as 
to arouse it. 
e 
The lure of photographs, their hold on us, is that they 
offer at one and the same time a connoisseur’s relation 
to the world and a promiscuous acceptance of the world. 
e 
While paintings or poems do not get better, more attrac- 
tive simply because they are older, all photographs are 
interesting as well as touching if they are old enough. 
e 
To photograph is to appropriate the thing photographed. 
It means putting oneself into a certain relation to the 
world that feels like knowledge — and, therefore, like 
power. A now notorious first fall into alienation, habitu- 
ating people to abstract the world into printed words, 
is supposed to have engendered that surplus of Faustian 
energy and psychic damage needed to build modern, 
inorganic societies. But print seems a less treacherous 
form of leaching out the world, of turning it into a 
mental object, than photographic images, which now 
Provide most of the knowledge people have about the 
look of the past and the reach of the present. What is 
written about a person or an event is frankly an interpre- 
tation, as are handmade visual statements, like paintings 
and drawings. Photographed images do not seem to be 
statements about the world so much as pieces of it, 
miniatures of reality that anyone can make or acquire. 
ee 
Light Impressions 
Looks to me like the best mailbox place to shop for 
photography books — big wide stock, accurate descrip- 
tions, nice sample images. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Andrew Williams] 
Light Impressions 
free from: 
(Books, Slide Sets and 
Light Impressions 
Archival Framing 
Corporation 
Supplies) 
P.O. Box 3012 
Catalogs 
Rochester, NY 14614 
e 
Minor White: 
Rites & Passages. ‘His photographs accom- 
panied by excerpts from his diaries and letters.” Auto- 
biographical essay by James Baker Hall. 
“ Amid the static its name lies in the images that have an 
affinity for one another./Many readings flicker until 
suddenly one reading is unequivocal.”” — Minor White. 
Issue no. 80 of Aperture, the magazine founded by 
the late Minor White in 1952, has been issued as the 
final collection of his work which he planned before his 
death. ““To see the sacred in the profane is to see the 
eternal in time: that was the controlling quest of Minor 
White’s life, the search for an imagery that was in perfect 
register with the stillness of the still photograph, for a 
communication between people that was most articulate 
in silence.” — the conclusion of Hall’s essay. An elegant 
and carefully executed tribute to one of the world’s 
great photographers, with beautiful reproductions, a 
chronology, bibliography and list of plates. 
Untitled/Minor White 
Magnifications 
Photographs as beautiful as any by Ansel Adams or Eliot 
Porter. 
The eye is that of a gentle man with a good sense 
of humor who has mastered a new too!/: the electron 
scanning microscope. Not satellite perspective (too far 
away). Not x-ray crystallography (which abandons my 
sense of life for the mineral lattice). Just right... the eye 
travels from familiar, everyday life into the expansive 
detail of marijuana resin droplets, feathery thrips, gold- 
coated aspirin, pollen grains and gladiola petals. 
—Peter Warshall 
$10.95 postpaid from: 
Schocken Books 
200 Madison Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Magnifications 
(Photography With 
the Scanning Elec- 
tron Microscope) 
David Scharf 
1977; 119 pp. 
Worlds Within Worlds 
Honeybee’s Eye- Compound eye. Note ocellus (simple 
eye) in background. 
Worlds Within Worlds 
Michael Marten, John 
Chesterman, et al. 
1977; 208 pp. 
The Friends of Photography 
In the world of photography, bargains and excellence are 
usually mutually exclusive concepts. However there does 
remain one great bargain of the highest quality, 
a member- 
ship in The Friends of Photography. 
For a twenty dollar fee, less than most photographic 
books today or a little more than one-third. the price for 
one hundred sheets of printing paper, one gets twelve 
monthly issues of The Friends Newsletter, four issues of 
the journal Untitled, discounts on photographic books, a 
chance to participate in the annual members-only juried 
exhibition, and for a very reasonable fee a weekend 
workshop for Friends of Photography members. 
The journal, Untitled, is one of the /iveliest and best 
presented publications in photography today. 
The format 
varies from collections of essays to the presentation of 
work by a single photographer. 
The quality of the repro- 
duction of photographs is excellent, and the writing is 
always penetrating and provocative. 
Untitled /tse/f more 
than justifies the membership fee. 
All of this emphasis on quality comes as no surprise since 
the Friends was founded in 1967 by people like Ansel 
Adams, Wynn Bullock, Beaumont and Nancy Newhall, 
and Brett and Cole Weston. 
The marvel is that access to 
all this quality work in photography comes at such a 
reasonable price. Don’t be fooled into thinking that only 
classic west coast photography 
is allowed. 
The Friends 
have encouraged contemporary innovations with exhibi- 
tions of the work of Robert Rauschenberg and Robert 
Heinecken as well as by sponsoring traveling exhibitions 
on 3M Color-in-Color process and on photographs made 
with a plastic “toy” camera called the Diane. 
For those with a bit more money and a desire to collect 
original photographic prints at very reasonable prices the 
Friends has 
a 
$150 membership which includes all of the 
above plus one of five original prints. 
This year the selec- 
tion includes prints by Marsha Burns, Francis Frith and 
Lou Stoumen. 
In the past prints by Ansel Adams, Duane 
Michaels, Jerry Uelsmann, Minor White, and many others 
have been offered. 
This is the ultimate bargain. 
—Andrew Williams 
The Friends of 
Membership 
Photography 
information 
Membership 
free from: 
The Friends of 
Photography 
P.O. Box 239 
Carmel, CA 93921 
A catalog of all the new “photographic” techniques and 
projects happening on and off Earth. Holograms, neutro- 
= 
graphy, Kirlian photography, x-ray, field emission micro- 
scope, sonography, false color, infra-red and ultra-violet, 
the linescan, weather radar. 
. 
technique is explained and a “‘classic’’ example of the 
technique portrayed. Some photos are amazing; some 
ho-hum. A basic text to the state-of-the-art. 
. to name just a few. Each 
—Peter Warshall 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
Holt, Rinehart & Winston 
383 Madison Avenue 
New York, NY 10017 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
This picture illustrates the uses of infrared photography 
in police work. Though the murder victim's body is gone, 
thermography reconstructs its position from the heat it 
left on the floor. 
The policeman sees only a rug; the 
thermogram sees the heat image of a corpse. 
Cheap, great photos and films at the 
Library of Congress 
For a minimum fee and for private use, the Library of 
Congress will make copies of any of the individual prints 
which are catalogued there. The Library is a tremendous 
resource. People who pay $1,000 and up for “‘original’’ 
photographs can sometimes find the same images available 
at the Library for $10 per gallery-quality print, often made 
in fact from the original negative. Accordingly, anyone 
buying photographs would be wise to check the Library's 
resources first, and then check to see if the “‘original”’ 
being offered by any gallery didn’t indeed originate at the 
Library. Historical societies, museums, universities and 
state libraries also usually offer quality photographic 
prints for sale, on request, at a minimum price. 
Write: 
—Elihu Blotnick 
Berkeley, California 
Library of Congress 
Photo Duplications Service 
Washington, D.C. 20540 
Note: The Library does not publish a catalog of their 
prints; you have to know what photograph you are 
looking for before you write. Also, a small number of 
their eight million photographs cannot be copied, for 
copyright reasons or because the original donors 
restricted their circulation. 
The Library of Congress also keeps prints of every motion 
picture ever copyrighted, including those which can ‘t be 
publicly released for one legal reason or another. 
(One 
example is “Rope,” a 1948 Hitchcock movie filmed 
entirely in one shot.) If you want to see a specific film 
and are willing to travel to Washington, D.C. to do it, you 
can write the Library of Congress Motion Picture, Broad- 
casting and Recorded Sound Division, Washington, D.C. 
20540, for an appointment. Admission is free. Scholarly 
inquiries are particularly encouraged. 
They won’t project 
the film; you run it through a motorized desk-top film 
editing machine in their back rooms. Similar services 
exist for broadcast and sound recordings. 
—Art Kleiner 
