meen ties SORE 
Se SG Ne 
ee 
ee 
"THEREARE ONLY 
SPENDIT 
COMMUNITY 
FUNDING 
The Bread Game 
/f you're raising money from foundations, this blunt little 
book is indispensable. 
I’ve been on both sides of the 
breadline enough to cherish its succinct candor in the 
bullfart atmosphere of granting. 
There’s now a whole 
literature on fundraising, but this book was first (1973), 
and its forthcoming:third edition (Fall 1980) is likely to 
still be the best. 
i 
—SB 
The Bread Game 
(The Realities of 
Foundation Fundraising) 
Herb Allen, Editor 
1973, 1974; 96 pp. 
$7.70 postpaid from: 
New Glide Publications 
330 Ellis Street 
San Francisco, CA 94102 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Wealthy Individuals. 
Many wealthy individuals do not 
have foundations of their own, but often make tax- 
deductible contributions to projects. There are all sorts 
of weird ways of finding these people: contribution 
reports of liberal political candidates, society pages of 
newspapers, friends and relatives, etc. They can be an 
excellent source of funds: first, because you don’t have to 
go through a bureaucracy to contact them; second, 
because they need the contact from non-wealthy people. 
Before you approach them, have everything together to 
make it easy for them to make a tax-deductible contribu- 
tion to your group. Read carefully the legal and fiscal 
sponsor material in this book! 
e 
Do It Right the First Time 
The importance of good accounting procedures for all 
Organizations cannot be overstated. Too many groups 
tend to feel that anyone can keep a set of books. Don’t 
be sucked into this attitude — it can be your undoing. 
Keep good records from the beginning. Ask the help of a 
good accountant to at least get the books set up in good 
order. Even though you may write your own checks, 
make all your own deposits and do your own posting. 
Check back with your accountant every three months so 
that your books can be reviewed and checked over for 
accuracy. A good set of books will go a long way toward 
convincing foundations and other contributors that you 
are a responsible group. 
e 
Developing Skills in Proposal Writing is written by Mary 
Hall, and is available from Continuing Education Publica- 
tions, Waldo 100, Corvallis, Oregon 97331. This is the 
best, economically priced, proposal writing manual that 
we have seen. 
$10 
The Seven Laws of Money 
Ex-banker Michael Phillips — also ex-director of POINT, 
the foundation that publishes this Catalog and gave away 
the million bucks that we got from sales of the Last 
Catalog — te//s all. 
It’s a bit New Age, but it’s wise, smart, 
and original ona subject that usually fights those qualities. 
The book has made a lot of people cheeky enough to try 
stuff, and it’s helped them get away with it. (See his 
“Four Illusions of Money,” p. 288.) 
—SB 
The Seven Laws 
of Money 
Michael Phillips 
1974; 194 pp. 
$4 postpaid from: 
Random House 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
THE FIRST LAW 
Do it! Money Will Come When You Are Doing the 
Right Thing 
THE SECOND LAW 
Money Has its Own Rules: Records, Budgets, 
Saving, Borrowing 
THE THIRD LAW 
Money is a Dream: A Fantasy As Alluring As the 
Pied Piper 
THE FOURTH LAW 
Money is a Nightmare: In Jail, Robbery, Fears of Poverty 
THE FIFTH LAW 
You Can Never Really Give Money Away 
THE SIXTH LAW 
? 
You Can Never Really Receive Money As A Gift 
THE SEVENTH LAW 
There Are Worlds Without Money 
e 
Money, which represents the prose of life, and which is 
hardly spoken of in parlors without an apology, is in its 
effects and laws, as beautiful as roses. 
—Ralph Waldo Emerson 
On Free Money 
ROM MY LIMITED EXPERIENCE, the 
realm of foundations and grants is one 
of the most cynical in the American 
economy, though it’s improving a little of late. 
Generally when you approach a foundation they 
are friendly and half-recep tive. They consider 
your project promising if a little naive, and they’d 
like you to write up a proposal on it. You spend 
a month learning how to write proposals and a 
month writing this one. They keep /t-six months. 
Your idea has died of dry rot. 
Then they request 
that you re-write the proposal to accommodate 
(whatever) and it might 
go through next time the 
board meets. Do this three times, and you have 
died of dry rot. 
ay 
Most actual grants | know of were initiated by the 
donors, not the donees. 
The most effective way to 
get grant money is to be Highly Visible. 
! don’t know why foundation and government 
money is so often toxic to projects. Maybe 
because the process becomes so easily dishonest. 
Do me no favors, and I'll tell you no lies. Or is it 
the belief that there’s such a thing as a free lunch 
that is the root lie? 
—SB 
The Foundation Directory 
The reference book of foundations. 
Gives addresses, 
finances, officers, purposes and activities. Foundations 
are listed by state, which is intelligent, since grants are 
usually given locally. 
(For non-foundation fundraising 
see The Grass Roots Fundraising Book, p. 394.) 
—SB 
The Foundation 
Directory 
7th Edition 
Marianna Lewis, Editor 
1967, 1979; 594 pp. 
$1 5 postpaid from: 
Columbia University Press 
Stock Department 
Q 
136 South Broadway 
Irvington-on-Hudson, 
NY 10533 
e 
When you open a checking account, open it with the 
largest amount of money you possibly can. 
!’m not 
kidding! 
Even if the average balance in your account is 
only going to be $50, try to borrow a friend’s $10,000 
home payment for one day so you can use it to open your 
account. You don’t have to go that far, but anything over 
a couple of thousand dollars looks good. You can with- 
draw most of the money a few days after the account is 
opened. Really! The reason for this is that the bank 
records your opening balance on your signature card (and 
often in other places, too), believing that it is representa- 
tive of your financial status. 
| did a study when | was a 
banker and found absolutely no correlation between 
opening balances and the kind of balances that appeared 
later on in the same account. 
It’s such a strong tradition 
to do it this way (at least a hundred years old) that 
bankers still judge people by their opening balance. Try 
it; the branch manager will smile on you forever more. 
e 
When you're asleep and dreaming, that's a world 
without money. 
® 
An example of foundations gone wild occurred recently. 
| funded Margo St. James to organize a prostitutes’ 
collective to protect street prostitutes from the inhuman 
daily abuse they get from the police, the courts, and 
hypocrites. 
| advised her to let a few local foundations 
know what she was up to so they would be aware of her 
project if in the future she should need to go to them for 
funds. 
| read the letter she sent to them; no request, just 
a friendly letter saying what she was doing. One liberal 
foundation, Pacific Change, invited her over to lunch and 
grilled her cruelly and mercilessly the same way they do 
groups they regularly screen. They berated her for not 
being serious, not being a member of a minority and not 
being poor enough. Fortunately, she told them to go to 
hell and left. Another foundation simply sent her a letter 
of rejection, although she hadn’t applied for money. 
These institutions are examples of how most founda- 
tions are so structured that they become numb in 
the process of dealing with the pain people feel in the 
donor/grantee relationship. 
THREE THINGS 
INVES! IP OR 
TODO WITH MONEY: 
GIVE IT AWAY ! 
Robin Hood Was Right 
An inspiration and advice kit for rich kids. How to not 
fee/ bad about being born to wealth, and how to treat the 
burden as a creative resource for others. 
|’m a great 
supporter of private wealth — through no other means 
can you get really original and really radical giving in the 
society. 
This good book shows how. 
a 
Robin Hood Was Right 
(A Guide to Giving Your 
Money for Social Change) 
Vanguard Public 
Foundation 
1977; 148 pp. 
$5 postpaid from: 
Vanguard Public 
Foundation 
4111 24th St. 
= 
San Francisco, CA 94114 
If you publicly give away money, you have to face the 
fact that you're going to get hustled. People will invite 
you to ‘‘parties’’ that are really fundraisers; others will 
make it their business to get to know you on a friendly 
basis. You'll receive tons of letters in the mail and occa- 
sional knocks on your door asking you to pay the rent 
of families facing eviction or bail someone out of jail in 
Peru, sponsor trips to Tahiti or support a struggling young 
poet. 
In short, you'll be asked to fill an entire spectrum 
of heartrending and sometimes whacky needs that have 
nothing to do with projects you want to fund. You may 
wonder, ‘Am | really this popular?’” The answer is no. 
In response to this pressure, many rich people have 
simply disconnected the phone, closed the checkbook, 
and stopped giving money away altogether. There are 
better ways to deal with the problem. 
e 
The ways of giving anonymously are fairly simple: 
e Register a fictitious name with the IRS, get a Post 
Office box and a bank account in that name, and start 
writing checks. For your tax accountant’s purposes, the 
checks are written by you, but the organizations you give 
to will think they are from Merdley A. Scrump, or what- 
ever name you choose. Or you can arrange for a lawyer 
to be your agent. 
He or she will make donations and 
sign the checks, telling the grantees they are from an 
anonymous client. 
e |t is much better, however, to work out a relationship 
with an existing foundation or consultant. You will be 
working with people who are accustomed to keeping 
secrets and who have the mechanisms set up to channel 
money from an anonymous donor. One advantage of 
this method is that it provides you with a more effective 
cover. 
If your favorite local tenants’ union receives 
a grant from, say, the Liberty Hill Foundation, the group 
will think of it as a grant from the Foundation itself, even 
though they may be told it is a ‘‘donor-specified”’ grant. 
On the other hand, if the same group suddenly gets a 
check from Merdley A. Scrump — who is not in the phone 
book and is not known by anyone — or from a lawyer 
representing an ‘’anonymous donor,” that's an open invi- 
tation to start trying to find out who the mystery person 
might be. A visible passion for secrecy mainly attracts 
publicity, as Howard Hughes and the CIA have discovered. 
One important caution: resign yourself to the fact that 
partial secrecy is impossible. You cannot expect to give 
money to organization A in your name, tell them ‘‘don’t 
say it was from me,’ and expect your secret to stop 
there. 
It never will. 
Siam 
San Francisco Opera House. Annual budget: $6,637,981 
The San Francisco Mime Troupe is an alternative political 
theater collective which has performed original comic 
satire nationwide since 1959. 
Here they perform free 
False Promises-Nos Enganaron. 
Low-budget, community- 
based arts projects often must struggle to secure funding. 
These projects involve and educate the community 
and are important to ethnic groups with different 
cultural heritages which are frequently ignored by 
traditional arts groups. || 
oer’ 
fa i 
; 
; 
Ae 
