plus anyone else who knew what was 
going on. Thus Central was mostly Cougar 
Mountain in control because only they 
were informed. No votes were taken as 
decisions came forth in discussion. It was 
a primitive but effective governing body. 
It turned out that seven crews organized 
like ours which meant there were eight 
crews including Cougar Mountain. After 
our first day of planting trees out in the 
rain and mud two weeks later, two of the 
crews disbanded. Only those crews which 
had formed with a solid foundation could 
survive the small money and wet feet of 
that day. So we were left with six crews 
ready to organize the cooperative. 
One hard core crew had within two 
months grown five more very fragile 
but ambitious crews. 
The task at hand now for survival was to 
create a just system of representation for 
each crew in order to decide on business 
problems, dividing up contracts and in- 
come, etc. Being children of America, we 
chose a representative democracy with a 
temporary oligarchy by the Cougar Moun- 
tain crew since we were inexperienced. 
After a few months of planting trees all 
became more familiar with the business 
and practicalities, and like a teenager 
growing up, we were ready to assume a 
more active role in the management of the 
co-op. A formal set of by-laws was adop- 
ted, the co-op was legally incorporated, 
and an elected council proceeded to usurp 
the power which Cougar Mountain had 
wielded. Their child had matured. 
Once the organization was constructed the 
only worry was to keep it solvent which 
demanded both money and energy. The 
organization of the co-op was so enchanting 
that many just wanted to revel in its 
beauty and work on the business end of it. 
But our bread and butter was tree planting 
and that we did. By the end of our first 
season, we had done contracts all over 
Oregon, Washington, Idaho, Montana, and 
Alaska with the income coming into Cen- 
tral and dispersed to the crews. 
At each step in the maturation of the co- 
op, the council made the decisions which 
improved our solvency, efficiency, and 
livability on the grand scale. But the unit 
of the co-op was the crew and the decisions 
at the crew level affected each of our lives 
more directly. While the council would 
affect how lucrative our contracts were, 
the crew would decide when to go to work, 
how long to work, who works, how to 
divide up the money, who cooks, who was 
in charge of keeping the Forest Service 
happy, etc. And each crew was autono- 
mous. Some chose to organize even the 
meals on a communal level, with a dozen 
people planting and one person cooking 
and cleaning up camp, all for the same 
daily wage. 
The crew is like a tribe, a mini-nation, and 
the method dispersing their income reflects 
the ideology of the crew. My crew began 
with the assumption that all were equal 
in ability or strength therefore our pay 
would be equal, i.e., divide up each day’s 
crew earnings evenly among the day’s 
they damn well should be read. Someone was 
sent crosstown to get them. It was a slow beginning 
in the right direction. Meeting was part of work. 
workers. But it evolved that we were not 
equal, some could plant faster and longer, 
some were leaders. The obvious solution 
was to pay each according to the number 
of trees he or she planted. But that seemed 
too much like capitalism plus it bred 
competition among the crew members 
which has no place in a cooperative. So 
we tried a system based on attitude, each 
person received a full day’s wage only if 
he or she felt that a hard day of work had 
been put in. If one didn’t plant as hard as 
possible, he or she would then request 
less pay for the day. It was a system based 
on self-criticism and a minimum of peer 
pressure, and it did not work. No one ever 
felt that he or she had not put in a full 
day’s effort, yet other crew members were 
quick to accuse others of laziness. We 
eventually, and most crews as well, divided 
up the income in the tried and true capital- 
ist tradition of more output, more pay. 
At the end of the first season of planting, 
the overwhelming feeling was of success. 
It had worked; details needed to be honed 
but by and large it had been an incredible 
lesson in self-organizing systems. The 
question which was on the mind of all was 
whether or not to continue to grow or not. 
It was well known that thousands in Oregon 
need the work but it was also felt that 
perhaps we were at the optimal size for a 
co-op, still personal but large enough to 
have some power, It was decided at a meet- 
ing of all Hoedads to add a few crews, and 
to help organize other co-ops in other areas. 
The other direction which people in the 
still have fun at a party. Somehow the rain and the 
beer were getting me down. 
LAND USE 
FOREST 
co-op want to move is to diversify the 
business so that people can grow individ- 
ually with varied work experiences as well 
as the communal growth which the co-op 
fosters. Tree planting is repetitive fairly 
unskilled work which lost its appeal to 
many members after a few years. The 
idea of a building and wrecking co-op 
was batted about and continues to be an 
issue. But the skills of the construction 
trade are not easily learned, plus the range 
of 
skills from foreman to shoveling involved 
contradictions to our ideas of equality on 
the crew. 
It is difficult to work in an 
egalitarian crew if everyone is doing jobs 
of varying skills. These are the problems 
with which the co-op is struggling today. 
It will be interesting to see the synergy of 
the people at work in their eventual solu- 
tions to them.... 
The condition which allowed the birth of 
this large co-op does not, unfortunately, 
exist in many places. That condition is 
the availability of large quantities of labor 
intensive, semi-skilled work on a contrac- 
tual basis. The reason the Hoedads were 
able to grow so quickly is that the main 
obstacle was organizing the crew into a 
workable unit, with the need for skill in 
tree planting not difficult to attain, and 
lots of work around. 
But there are fountains of work just 
waiting for co-opertization in many agri- 
cultural areas, and the need for reforesta- 
tion wherever logging is done. All that is 
a dozen people to organize themselves 
and then plant the seed. 
= 
On the train back to California we passed a big 
BRUCE 
PIEPENBURG 
Criticism and self-criticism are parts of the dialectic. 
I was beginning to learn about movement 
derailment, with boxcars strewn out in a riverbed 
like the Lord had dropped his Mahjong set. I 
envisioned five hundred people picking up the pieces. 
In the Sacramento Valley I wondered whether farm 
workers might not do better as cooperatives than as 
unions, and who was in charge of naming race horses. 
In all I was convinced that the Hoedads had their 
shit together. They had a legal, cooperative structure, 
their own credit union, a gypsy lifestyle, enough work 
to keep a little ways from foodstamps, no gurus, and 
a vision of a labor-intensive, energy-efficient forest 
of the future. I wondered if they would ever become 
Over the course of the next two days it became evident 
that the Hoedads are, as a group, involved in all phases 
of reforestation, and are expanding the definition of 
their work to the benefit, perhaps the radicalization, 
of the industry. Take herbicides for instance. The 
Forest Service contracts out work to chopper 
companies to spray 2, 4-D and 2-4, 5-T on recently 
logged areas to limit the broadleaf growth. These 
chemicals are horribly close to Agent Orange, the 
defoliant used in Vietnam to uncover the Ho Chi 
Wo bundles of young trees with mudball roots. Three 
hundred of these in a tree sack is a good load uphill. 
Minh trail and ruin the agricultural base of the 
revolutionists. They cause birth defects. The Hoedads 
voted a thousand dollars for research into alternatives 
to spraying. They argue that with a little use of people 
the unwanted vegetation can be turned into energy, 
into wood alcohol or sheep fodder. Solve the problem 
with people, not poisons. 
The tree crop has to be thinned, weeded, and the 
standard government method of doing this is to let 
a thinning contract, which is chainsaw work, just 
walking into the thick of it and knocking down 
everything but the strong plants, leaving the rest 
jackstrawed on the ground to rot into the forest floor. 
The Hoedads have begun to get thinning contracts. 
They talked of ways to utilize the slash, run portable 
stud mills, make two by fours out of the unwanted 
trees, and end up with a few houses out of each 
thinning contract. 
The question of the womens’ crew was brought to the 
floor. A woman read the title poem from Monster by 
Robin Morgan. The shuffling began; the “tee hee” 
jokes sprinkled through the crowd. Some things 
aren’t meant to be decided by two hundred people. 
The Hoedads compromised: 
if there were ever to 
be a new crew added to Hoedad Central, then it would 
be the Women’s Crew. Meanwhile a crew of women 
were going to plant together anyway, just to see how 
it worked. 
You can judge a political movement by its parties. 
There were five kegs of beer and two bands that night 
at the tree planters’ boogydown. Somebody asked 
me it I 
was a CIA agent. Somebody else said that by 
writing about Hoedads I would bring government 
attention. (He was legal but a little underground.) 
The dancefloor was getting muddied up from the 
wafflesole mountain boots tracking in that part of 
Oregon. I had the feeling that two hundred active 
members is about as big as a cooperative can get and 
a collective. 
= 
THE RISING SUN 
: NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
vac 
* Whatever your fantasy America, it needs libraries 
. 
to ever be even a little bit true, but who really 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
needs libraries are kids. Libraries are the only 
nice things most towns do for their smart kids. 
Being a smart kid is not exactly a burden in the 
category with not having enough to eat, but it’s 
often difficult and usually boring, and if we’re 
going to build a better space station or solar 
collector or have a better class of people to talk to 
at parties, it would be a good idea to not have 
being smart so unfun that smart kids start play- 
ing dumb so well that they stay dumb. (If you 
went to public school you saw that happen at 
least twice.) I remember about the second day of 
eighth grade history class our history teacher was 
bullshitting and asking a bunch of general know- 
ledge questions to pass the time and I answered 
12 and everyone else combined answered 2 and 
everyone looked at me real funny the rest of the 
day and I remember going over the recommended 
reading lists in reading class in junior high and 
the teacher asking who had read each title and me 
deciding how many to admit to (about half of 
how many I’d read seemed right). I’d learned then 
that the way or one way to be smart and not hated 
was to be bored and lie a lot, not raise your hand 
as soon as you knew the answer (if ever) and go 
to the library but not admit what you did there. 
(I sometimes wonder if tripping and being absent 
minded about practical things were another part 
of my way of making up for 
it but to be honest 
they seemed to come natural.) 
