Sunsets, and also sunrises, were accompanied by a vivid 
arc of colors like a rainbow stretching across the horizon. 
A House in Space 
No book, including the ones by astronauts, has given so 
compelling an account of /ife in Orbit. Henry Cooper, on 
assignment from The New Yorker, ta/ked to a// the 
participants in the three Skylab missions which accumu- 
lated a total of 171 days — nearly six months — of 
constant weightlessness. What they found there were 
the kind of amazing occurrences that you will find your- 
self starting conversation with. 
The astronauts spent 
hours searching for lost objects that wandered off, When- 
ever they opened a drawer the stuff inside exploded out 
at them in slow motion. Whichever way they stood ina 
room was “local down.” The third crew went on strike. 
Fascinating problems, ingenious solutions in a definitively 
exotic environment. 
—SB 
A House in Space 
Henry S.F. Cooper, Jr. 
1976; 184 pp. 
$1 95 postpaid from: 
Bantam Books 
414 E. Golf Road 
Des Plaines, 1L 60016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
An astronaut could almost select, with his eyes, which 
vertical he wanted to follow, the room’s or his own 
private one. ‘All one has to do is to rotate one’s body to 
[a new] orientation and whammo! What one thinks is up 
is up,’’ said Kerwin, the first crew's science pilot, who had 
discovered the phenomenon. 
“It's a feeling as though one 
could take this whole room and, by pushing a button, 
just rotate it around so that the ceiling up here would be 
the floor. 
It's a marvelous feeling of power over space — 
over the space around one. Closing one’s eyes, of course, 
makes everything go away. And now one’s body is like 
a planet all to itself, and one really doesn’t know where 
the outside world is." 
Kerwin, the first crew’s science pilot, watches a ball of 
water, which he has just blown from a straw, as it floats 
away like a tiny planet. 
e 
The astronauts were continually surprised at how much 
time they spent looking not only at oceans and deserts 
but also at snowfields and mountainous areas, in none of 
which could they see any sign of life. In contrast to the 
Apollo astronauts who had looked back from the moon 
and described it as an oasis in space, the Skylab astronauts 
thought the earth a barren place. The toughest part of 
the earth to survive in that they passed over, the third 
crewmen thought, was the area from Tibet across Outer 
Mongolia. ‘There is nothing but a great big nothing out 
here now,” Gibson said during the third mission. 
“Northern China, Outer Mongolia, and all that gold stuff: 
the Gobi Desert.’” Carr, especially, thought man had a 
tenuous foothold on his own planet, where the checker- 
boards of his cultivation seemed to be packed into the 
few temperate areas, or fringed the deserts and oceans 
like a green mold struggling for existence. ‘‘Not much 
of the earth is hospitable to man,’ he radioed down one 
day — as though Mission Control's presence there had 
somehow made it seem an alien place. 
‘“‘We don’t occupy 
much of our world. We're crowded into small areas.”” 
e 
Lousma had said once, ““A guy like me, who likes both 
sunsets and sunrises, mostly gets to see sunsets. 
But here, 
in space, every day we get sixteen of each.’’ Whatever 
they were doing, the astronauts frequently crowded 
around the window at such times. 
Lousma liked to leap from the workshop floor — just before he reached the center of the dome — to straighten out as 
cleanly as a diver hitting the water, in order to disappear through the hatch without touching its side. 
Useful Attributes of Space 
by Jesco von Puttkamer 
@ Easy gravity control from ambient zero-g (or 
micro-g) to any desired rotationally induced 
multi-g level 
@ Absence of atmosphere 
— unhampered viewing of space for astronomy, 
astrophysics, etc. 
— perfect vacuum and freedom from seismic, 
acoustic, and convection disturbances 
© Comprehensive overview of Earth surface and 
atmosphere 
@ Isolation from Earth’s biosphere (for hazardous 
processes) 
® Freely available light, heat, and power 
@ Infinite natural reservoir for 
—unlimited disposal of waste products 
—safe storage of radioactive products 
®@Super-cold temperatures (heat sink) 
© Large, three-dimensional volumes (storage, 
structures) 
® Variety of non-diffuse (directed) radiation 
® Magnetic field 
@ Extraterrestrial raw materials 
Insight 
Newsletter of the National Space Institute, a public lobby 
set up by Werner von Braun shortly before he died to 
help build a broad Space constituency and help keep 
Washington informed of 
what that constituency 
wants. Apparently it’s 
pretty effective and is 
riding adroitly the new 
public interest in Space. 
—SB 
Insight 
Courtney A. Stadd, 
Editor 
$22/year (12 issues) 
(includes membership) 
postpaid from: 
National Space Institute 
P.O. Box 1420 
933 North Kenmore 
Arlington, VA 22210 
The December issue of The Sciences (published by the 
New York Academy of Sciences) reports that America’s 
civilian space program may be overshadowed by a ‘man- 
in-space’ capability for the Department of Defense. 
Entitled “America’s Other Space Program," by Trudy 
Bell, former NASA mission controller, the article claims 
that forty percent of the Space Shuttle flights in the 
initial years are dedicated to military purposes. These 
Shuttle missions will be piloted by military shuttle 
pilots, performed by military mission specialists and con- 
trolled from the ground by military mission controllers. 
. 
. 
Bell also reports that the Defense Department's space 
budget of $4 billion is almost equal to NASA's $4.2 
billion. 
In addition, while the civilian space budget is 
being steadily eroded by inflation, DOD's space spending 
has doubled since 1976. 
Coie 
sidie 
ee 
6, 
6) 
€ 8 
000 
© 
0° 
6 
‘a 
6 
0:6 
¢ 
© 0m 
06 
6)\¢ 
6 
0. 
0.6 
9.9 
ere 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
SPACE 
Disturbing the Universe 
A fascinating, ingenious, and moral physicist reflects 
on the science and bombs in his life and spins out some 
fascinating, ingenious, and moral speculation about the 
uses of space. 
—SB 
Disturbing the Universe 
(A Life in Science) 
Freeman Dyson 
1979; 283 pp. 
$12.95 postpaid from: 
Harper and Row, Publishers 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
What are the exploitable resources of a galaxy? The raw 
materials are matter and energy — matter in the form of 
planets, comets or dust clouds, and energy in the form 
of starlight. To exploit these resources fully, a techno- 
logical species must convert the available matter into 
biological living space and industrial machinery arranged 
in orbiting shells around the stars so as to utilize all the 
starlight. There is enough matter in a planet of the size 
and chemical composition of Jupiter to form an artificial 
biosphere exploiting fully the light from a star of the 
size of our sun. 
e 
The Mongolian nomads developed a tough skin and a 
slit-shaped eye to withstand the cold winds of Asia. 
If 
some of our grandchildren are born with an even tougher 
skin and an even narrower eye, they may walk bare-faced 
in the winds of Mars. The question that will decide our 
destiny is not whether we shall expand into space. 
It is: shall we be one species or a million? A million 
species will not exhaust the ecological niches that are 
awaiting the arrival of intelligence. 
e 
When we are a million species spreading through the 
galaxy, the question “‘Can man play God and still stay 
sane?”’ will lose some of its terrors. We shall be playing 
God, but only as local deities and not as lords of the 
universe. There is safety in numbers. Some of us will 
become insane, and rule over empires as crazy as Doctor 
Moreau’s island. Some of us will shit on the morning 
star. There will be conflicts and tragedies. But in the long 
run, the sane will adapt and survive better than the insane. 
Nature’s pruning of the unfit will limit the spread of 
insanity among species in the galaxy, as it does among 
individuals on earth. Sanity is, in its essence, nothing 
more than the ability to live in harmony with nature’s laws. 
Aviation Week and Space Technology 
This is the magazine the space professionals use to 
stay current. 
—SB 
<7 
Aviation Week and 
Space Technology 
Robert Hutz, Editor 
$45/year (12 issues) 
(“Qualified’’ aviation/ 
aerospace workers: 
$35/year.) 
postpaid from: 
McGraw Hill, Inc. 
Fulfillment Manager 
Aviation Week and 
Space Technology 
P.O. Box 430 
Hightstown, NJ 08520 
eee 
e eee 
see eee 
eee 
eee 
ee 
ee 
eee 
eee ene 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
The Giant 1978-1979 Edition of Movies on TV 
lists 47 movies that begin with the pronoun I. The 
last 26 are I Married a Monster from Outer Space, 
I Married a Witch, I Married 
a Woman, I Met a 
Murderer, I, Mobster, I Never Sang for My Father, 
I Passed for White, I Remember Mama, I Sailed to 
Tahiti with an All Girl Crew, I Saw What You Did, 
I Shot Jesse James, I Say, You Say, I Thank a 
Fool, I Wake Up Screaming, I Walk Alone, I 
Walk the Line, I Walked with a Zombie, I Want to 
Keep My Baby, I Want to Live, I Want You, I 
Wanted Wings, I Was a Communist for the F.B.1., 
I Was a Male War Bride, I Was a Parish Priest, I 
Was a Teenage Frankenstein, I Was Monty’s 
Double, 1 Wonder Who’s Kissing Her Now. 
13 
