182 
SOFT TECHNOLOGY 
SOLAR HOMES 
OLAR ENERGY 
HAS AT LAST HIT THE BIG TIME with subsidies, code requirements, bank 
terms, and fancy color catalogs. There’s a growing solar hardware industry too, and like most 
new industries it is a strange mixture of dedicated ineptitude, cool professionalism, and fraud. 
Right now it’s pretty hard to sort it all out — so many of the companies involved are small and local that 
investigating each one Is virtually impossible. For this reason we are not presenting collectors and other 
devices except where we personally know the people, or the idea is clearly one to watch. 
The Solar Home Book 
Most of the basic information on solar energy has been 
established and published in every imaginable nuance, 
but.application of the basics surges ahead so fast that 
usually only the journals can keep up. Unfortunately, 
the journals can’t afford to be highly detailed, and the 
hardcover publishers can’t afford to bring out new titles. 
Once again Bruce Anderson and friends come to the 
rescue, and once again they are in front of the pack. 
There’s a lot in the book about passive systems. 
The 
whole book is rich in what-we-have-learned-by-trying-it 
: 
and gives examples from many 
different parts of the 
| 
U.S.A. 
This is in marked contrast to most others. 
If you 
: 
are dealing sun these days, the book is essential reading. 
Incidentally, Bruce Anderson is also executive editor of 
the ever-better Solar Age magazine (opposite page). 
—J. Baldwin 
Hardware is not where it’s at anyway. 
The focus (heh heh) of much household scale solar work is on 
“passive” design — the building itself is the collector and storage. 
This isn’t so flashy and doesn’t appeal so 
readily to those who like to show off things they’ve bought, but it works, and there is an increasingly 
competent literature based on field experience. Passive designs tend to be more modest too, a welcome 
turn away from what | have called “solar Buicks” — lage houses that are essentially energy hogs made 
“energy efficient” by the addition of expensive devices. 
In any case, it’s buyer beware. 
You can get a good idea of what is available by attending to the several 
publications dedicated to that worthy goal, and you can educate yourself pretty well from a few definitive 
books. 
You should remember that the ultimate goal is for all of us to live on renewable energy. 
That 
means sleazy workmanship, poor design, short-lived materials, and the usual build-it-as-tacky -as-you-can- 
and-still-sell-it attitude are not appropriate. Unfortunately, many manufacturers have not agreed, nor have 
many do-it-yourselfers whose only. idea is to save money. Oh, there’s money to be saved alright, but it 
takes a while to show. 
It is unlikely that there will be any solar strategy that will make a big, sudden 
dramatic difference. We got into our energy-wasting mess in small steps, and it is by careful attention to 
doing the small things right that we will get out. 
—J. Baldwin 
GRAVEL BED 
| 
HEAT STORAGE 
WARM AIR 
/ 
LOUVERS 
GLASS OR PLASTIC 
The Solar Home Book 
Bruce Anderson with 
Michael Riordan 
1976; 298 pp. 
$9.50 postpaid from: 
Brick House Publishing 
3 Main Street 
Andover, MA 01810 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
SS 
> 
COLD WATER IN 
ae 
Ca 
BLACK 
, 
GLACK SURFACE 
SILVER 
Ss 
COOL AIR 
GAFFLE 
NSSL ja 
T 
7 
“YY 
ermosi 
ning 
solar water 
heater 
developed 
in 
Yy 
Yh 
Th 
phoning 
solar 
water 
heater 
developed 
YY i 
al 
the West Indies. 
—— 
P 
Fe 
Solar heating and cooling are feasible today — not at some 
N 
nebulous future date. The solar energy falling on the 
walls and roof of a home during winter is several times the 
amount of energy needed to heat it. All it takes to harness 
BLACK. 
SILVER 
BLACK 
SILVER 
SILVER 
2 
4 
this abundant supply is the combination of ingenuity, 
economy and husbandry that has been the American ideal 
BLACK 
since the days of Franklin and Thoreau. 
2 
4 
A “‘Venetian blind”’ solar collector and heat control device 
— various operating modes. 
€— Roof pond collectors — summer and winter operation. 
The Passive Solar Energy Book 
| have come to regard new solar energy books almost as a 
personal assault. 
The majority are the same old stu ff with 
a new title, are dull, and are maddening to review. Once 
in a while, though, a really fine useful book comes by that 
makes up for the others. 
This is one of those books. 
It 
has all the attributes that one could reasonably demand: 
basic principles are explained with unusual brilliance (the 
best I’ve seen), the principles are reduced to “rules of 
thumb,” examples are given, and a workbook format 
makes it easy to apply what you've learned. This expanded 
professional edition has massive references and charts 
of such essentials as Time Lag Of Heat Flow Through 
Walls and Roofs. 
The latest numbers are from field work 
(in contrast to many other books) and give the designer 
the tools to calculate passive details with confidence. 
Also included are transparent overlays that enable the 
figures to be applied to your particular geographical 
area. 
The charts (along with the photos and iflustra- 
tions) are mercifully large and well printed. 
The whole 
thing has a friendly tone to it instead of the more com- 
mon preaching-to-the-dumb-dumbs. What more could 
one ask? Incidentally, this is the book that government 
officials are using as a reference when making the solar 
tax rebate laws for passive buildings. 
It’s already regarded 
33 East Minor 
as a classic, for good reason. 
—J. Baldwin 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
e 
or Whole Earth 
e 
Boasher Scots 
While good at storing heat, a masonry exterior wall used as a 
heat storage medium within a space will also readily pass this 
heat to the outside. Masonry materials such as brick, stone, 
The Passive Solar 
Energy Book 
(Expanded Professional 
Edition) 
Edward Mazria 
1979; 704 pp. 
$24.95 postpaid from: 
Rodale Books 
Plotting tall permanent objects. 
The most common definition of a passive solar-heating and 
cooling system is that it is a system in which the thermal 
energy flows in the system are by natural means such as 
radiation, conduction and natural convection. 
In essence, the 
building structure or some element of it is the system. There 
are no separate collectors, storage units or mechanical ele- 
ments. The most striking difference between the systems is 
that the passive system operates on the energy available in its 
immediate environment and the active system imports energy, % ' 
such as electricity, to power the fans and pumps which make 
the system work, 
e 
There are two basic.elements in every passive solar-heating 
system: south-facing glass (or transparent plastic) for solar 
collection, and thermal mass for heat absorption, storage 
and distribution. Popular belief has it that a passive building 
must incorporate large quantities of these two elements. Our 
studies show, however, that while there must be some thermal 
mass and glazing in each space, when properly designed they 
are not necessarily excessive. 
concrete and adobe can store large amounts of heat. A 
masonry wall by itself, though, does not provide good insu- 
lation, 
For example, 3% inches of fiberglass insulation has 
the insulating properties of 12 feet of concrete or 4 feet of 
adobe. 
Ina Direct Gain System a large portion of the heat 
stored in an exposed masonry wall will be lost to the exterior. 
The Recommendation 
When using a masonry wall (exposed to the exterior) for heat 
storage, place insulation on the outside of the wall. Also, at 
the perimeter of foundation walls, apply approximately 1% 
to 2 feet of 2-inch rigid waterproof insulation below grade. 
This will prevent any heat stored in the walls and floor from 
being conducted rapidly to the outside. 
(— 
Energy density is determined by the angle of incidence. 
