Plants of the Gods 
This is the coffee table version of the affordable Golden 
Press edition (also by Schultes). More detailed on the 
plants themselves, their preparations and uses, Plants of 
the Gods gives precise and illuminating portraits of 
the many peoples on Earth who pay homage and gain 
insight with the aid of plants. 
The authors are the 
—Peter Warshall 
authorities on the subject. 
Plants of the Gods 
(Origins of 
Hallucinogenic Use) 
Richard Evans Schultes 
and Albert Hofmann 
1979; 192 pp. 
$34.95 postpaid from: 
McGraw-Hill 
Book Company 
Princeton Road 
Hightstown, NJ 08520 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Hallucinogenic Plants 
Trust me folks. 
I’ve reviewed /ots of your fad get-high 
books. 
Ingested as many in quest of verification. But 
never like this. No synthetics. No LSD. No STP. No 
DMT. 
This book is founded in a love of living plants — 
the “miraculous coincidence” that plant and human 
chemistries mix, create nourishment, life, death and 
visions. Writen by the U.S. Chief of Plant Power Research 
(Richard Evans Schultes) whose serene, plant-like soul 
treats our American pot cult in the same measured tones 
as the Fang Cult of Bwiti. 
This Golden Guide and Wizard 
of the Upper Amazon are the two crucial grips on the 
vegetative reality of human spirit. Hey... out there... 
trust me. 
It’s an old-fashioned sweet bargain. 
—Peter Warshall 
[Suggested by Annie Hines] 
Way back in the Last Whole Earth Catalog / concluded a 
rave review of The Golden Book of Camping with the wise- 
ass remark, “I can hardly wait for the Golden Book of 
Dope.” It’s here. 
(For marijuana cultivation, see p. 103.) 
—SB 
e 
Old World Hallucinogens 
New World Hallucinogens 
The Beneficial Plant Research Association 
The Beneficial Plant Research Association is a non-profit 
scientific and educational corporation that investigates 
and promotes plants that can improve human life. 
Currently, they are working on the Coca Project: an 
investigation of how the coca leaf (not cocaine) was 
used by native peoples of the Andes and how its leaf 
extract (not crystal) can be used for various medicinal 
preparations. 
They work closely with the native peoples 
who first “discovered” the plants. Another project helps 
the Cubeos (an Amazonian tribal people) market a special, 
smokey-flavored chile. Other projects include natural 
stimulants (guarana and yoco), sedatives (kava), dyes, 
sangre de grado, lulo, etc. An exciting group of the 
brainiest and most compassionate plant lovers on Earth. 
—Peter Warshall 
Beneficial Plant 
Research Association 
Brochure 
$1 from: 
Beneficial Plant 
Research Association 
Carmel Valley, CA 93924 
RR 
ee 
car 
cal 
Indians under Virola intoxication characteristically have 
faraway, dream-like expressions that are, of course, due 
to the active principles of the drug, but which the natives 
believe are associated with the temporary absence of the 
shamans’ souls as they travel to distant places. The chants 
during the incessant dancing performed by shamans 
may at times reflect conversations with spirit forces. 
This transportation of the soul to other realms represents 
to the Waika one of the most significant values of the 
A faded Romanesque fresco in the late thirteenth-century 
Plaincourault Chapel depicts the Biblical temptation 
scene in the Garden of Eden. The Tree of Knowledge, 
entwined by a serpent, bears an uncanny resemblance 
to the Amanita muscaria mushroom. There has been 
considerable controversy concerning this fresco. Some 
feel that the figure represents the Fly Agaric. 
Tt 
Dated somewhere between 200 B.C. and A.D. 100, this 
beautiful ceramic artifact from Colima, Mexico, shows 
celebrants dancing around a mushroom effigy. From this 
artifact and the relative size and position of the fungus, 
it would appear that the mushroom represents something 
akin to the World Tree, the axis mundi. The mushroom, 
effects of this hallucinogen. 
Hallucinogenic Plants 
(A Golden Guide) 
Richard Evans Schultes 
1976; 160 pp. 
$1 95 postpaid from: 
Golden Press 
Western Publishing 
Company 
1220 Mound Avenue 
Racine, WI 53404 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Fly Agaric Mushroom; Agara, Ereriba;Kwashi, Galanga; 
Marihuana; Turkestan Mint; Syrian Rue; Kanna; Bella- 
donna; Henbane; Mandrake; Dhatura; Iboga. 
Puffballs; Mushrooms; Rapé dos Indios; Sweet Flag; 
Virolas; Masha-hari; Jurema; Yopo; Bilca; Genista; 
Mescal Bean; Colorines; Piule; Ayahuasca; Shanshi; 
Sinicuichi; San Pedro; Peyote; ‘‘False Peyotes’’; Hierba 
Loca; Sacred Morning Glories; Hojas de la Pastora; 
Coleus, Borrachera, Arbol de los Brujos; Chiric-Caspi; 
Daturas; Tree Daturas; Culebra Borrachero; Shanin, 
Keule, Taique; Tupa, Zacatechichi. 
Iboga (Tabernanthe iboga), native to Gabon and the 
Congo, is the only member of the dogbane family, 
Apocynaceae, known to be used as an hallucinogen. 
We also pldn to study natural sedatives that might serve 
as alternatives to the so-called “minor tranquilizers’ 
that have become the most widely prescribed drugs in 
our society. Only recently has the public become aware 
that these powerful chemicals carry a variety of medical 
risk, including the possibility of severe dependence. : 
The natural sedative that is receiving our first attention 
is kava (Piper methysticum), which is used ceremonially 
in the islands of the South Seas. The beverage prepared 
from the fresh root produces a state of relaxation but 
does not dull the mind. Curiously, the dried root has 
little effect. We are working to determine how to 
preserve the desirable properties of fresh kava ina 
pharmaceutical preparation. 
Kava-kava, Piper methysticum 
with its peaked cap, could well be Psilocybe mexicana 
or a close relative of this species. 
Wizard of the Upper Amazon 
Plunged into the middle of a jungle foodweb, only visions, 
plant narcotics, hunting skills and an incredible intimacy 
with the natural world sustain Cordova-Rios. 
In no other 
book have | felt the mixing of human and animal and 
dream worlds to be so clear and direct. 
/ wrote the above paragraph in 1972 after reading the 
hardback. On re-reading the paper edition, | can only 
say that this book is far superior to anything Castaneda 
has attempted. 
The Huni Kui is not a destroyed tribe 
like the Yaqui. 
The Huni Kui have pleasant and 
important communal visions much more astounding 
and connected-to-life than the individualistic “fearful” 
visions of Castaneda. 
To complete the praise: This is 
one of the three or four best books | have encountered 
while reviewing for the Whole Earth. 
Wizard of the 
Upper Amazon 
(The Story of 
Manuel Cérdova-Rios) 
—Peter Warshall 
® 
| was still kept on a strict diet, and it turned out that 
agricellamb 
this was to be a period of intensive training for me. Once 
1971, 
1974: 205 pp 
every eight days | would have a session of visions with 
Z 
5 
: 
the chief. These included examination of plants and their 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
various uses both as food and as medicine, as well as 
Houghton-Mifflin 
further study of the animals. During the time between 
Company 
sessions | was taken often to the forest on both day and 
Wayside Road 
night trips with small groups of hunters. On these excur- 
Burlington, MA 01803 
sions | found to my delight that the intensified sense of 
or Whole Earth 
perception and increased awareness of my surroundings 
Household Store 
Originating in the sessions with the chief stayed with me. 
In the forest my companions would point out origins 
of sound and smell and continually test my progress in 
becoming completely one with the forest environment. 
Psychedelics Encyclopedia 
As Allen Ginsberg says: 
“Peter Stafford has an elephant’s 
memory for what happened to Public Consciousness...” 
This is a delightful Rabelaisian social history of psyche- 
delics in America (from the 1800s forward). My special 
favorite is the story of Harry J. Anslinger — the man who 
convinced the U.S. Government that marijuana was deathly. 
—Peter Warshall 
Psychedelics 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Encyclopedia 
And/Or Press 
Peter Stafford 
at rae Pas ons 
1977; 384 pp. 
erkeley, 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
oo) 
Varieties of /pomoea violacea common in the U.S. 
containing d-lysergic acid amides are: 
Heavenly Blue, 
Pearly Gates, Flying Saucers, Blue Star, Summer 
Skies and Wedding Bells. 
Aldous Huxley, surveying Los Angeles from the Holly- 
wood Hills, on that May morning in 1953 when the Doors 
of Perception were cleansed with 400 mg. of mescaline. 
—) 
