— 
NDERSTANDING WHOLE SYSTEMS means looking both larger and smaller than where our daily habits live and seeing clear 
The result is responsibility but the process is filled with the constant delight of surprise. 
Neither the 
eS eg 
es 
alive — expanded from the individual human to the whole Earth. 
through our cycles. 
Earth nor our lives are flat. 
ey 
[3 
et 
pene” 
re 
é 
ee) 
SYSTEMS 
> LE 
What happened in the 20th century? The idea of self — the thing to be kept 
—SB 
Grand Design 
The best book of aerial photographs ever (200 photos — 
half are in color). What is unique is the captioning — 
Gerster knows what he is floating over, or he studies it 
until he does. 
He knows the history of places, and why 
the farmers do odd things, and what the tribe is after, 
and how to keep sand dunes from covering the oasis. 
The book is a tour de force of form and content. 
The range is so world-wide and culturally rich that no 
reader-flier can escape wanting to try things differently. 
That's the yield of perspective. 
I’ve seen no other book 
— not even the space satellite ones — with perspective 
like this. 
Gerster’s message comes across: if your place is beautiful 
from the air, it’s beautiful to live in. If not, not. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Wilson Clark and Allison Giballe] 
Grand Design 
(The Earth From Above) 
Georg Gerster 
1976; 312 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
Paddington Press 
Get this book 
back in print! 
Vegetable growing in Imperial Valley, California, and in 
the New Territories, Hong Kong. Two types of fields, 
and two philosophies of life! 
In the first we see the 
dictate of the straight line, cultivation as subjugation, 
the conquest of nature by geometry. Imperial Valley as 
a whole is land wrested from the desert, a triumph of 
irrigation technology. 
In the second example: the Taoist 
philosophy of respecting and adapting oneself to the 
landscape, a tacit understanding with nature, agriculture 
as a way to cosmic harmony. Geomancy — feng-shu/ 
(“wind and water”) — ensures that the homes of the 
living and the dead are in accord with the breath of the 
world that can be felt flowing through every landscape. A 
geomancer used to be called upon when a Chinese farmer 
wanted to fix the boundaries of new fields. The earth 
diviner rejected the straight line as soulless, and geometry 
as godless; in his opinion paths and watercourses should 
wind, fitting naturally into the landscape, for adaptation, 
not resistance, is the guarantor of good fortune. 
Town and island of Mexcaltitan in the Mexican state of 
Nayarit. Mexcaltitan is situated ina lagoon on the Pacific 
coast, 155 miles northwest of Mexico's second largest 
town, Guadalajara. The shallow lagoon is alive with crabs, 
shrimps and fish, which are the population’s main source 
of food and income. The settlement of the island dates 
back far into pre-colonial, pre-Spanish times. Some 
researchers even tend to equate Mexcaltitan with Aztlan, 
the original home of the Aztecs before they moved to 
their historical territories in the high valley of Mexico. 
Aztec legends about the origin and wandering of the tribe 
tell of an island in the middle of an inland lake, a paradise 
for fishermen and hunters of waterfowl. 
It is a fact that 
the memory of moon worship, Central America’s oldest 
cult, lives on tenaciously in this village, and that its 
inhabitants are still quite convinced of the mystical- 
mythical significance of the circular settlement plan: for 
them, Mexcaltitan is the center of the universe. The cross 
formed by the four main streets inside the ring road that 
encloses the town mirrors the division of the heavens into 
the ‘‘world’s four corners.” 
— 
Carnuntum, a Roman fort on the Danube frontier, be- 
tween today’s Deutsch-Altenburg and Petronell, Austria. 
Emperor Marcus Aurelius (161 - 180) fought the rebel- 
lious Marcomanni from Carnuntum, and wrote here the 
second chapter of his Meditations, The pictures show 
ground plans of streets and buildings in the camp village 
lying in front of the legion’s camp proper and divided 
fe 
Se, 
; 
from it by the g/acis (the combat area). The village grew 
: 
fo 
ees 
under civil administration into a town in its own right. 
The remains of underground walls, which cannot be 
detected at ground level, show up in the aerial photograph 
as dark lines in the ripe wheat; but they completely dis- 
appear where the crops are still green. Only wheat shows 
this very sensitive reaction to local variations in the mois- 
ture of the soil: the lime and mortar of the Roman walls 
extract moisture from the soil above them so that the 
plants grow less high and ripen earlier. The resolving 
power of this archaeological radiography is good enough 
to reveal underground walls only one foot thick. 
Cosmic View 
“The Universe in 40 Jumps” is the subtitle of the book. 
It delivers. 
The man who conceived and rendered it, a Dutch school- 
master named Kees Boeke, gave years of work to perfect- 
ing the information in his pictures. 
The result is one of 
the simplest, most thorough, inescapable mind blows ever 
printed. 
Your mind and you advance in and out through 
the universe, changing scale by a factor of ten. 
It very 
quickly becomes hard to breathe, and you realize how 
magnitude-bound weve been. 
Cosmic View 
(The Universe in 
40 Jumps) 
Kees Boeke 
1957; 48 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
The John Day Company 
257 Park Avenue South 
New York, NY 10010 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
