Home Beermaking 
by Donald 
Ryan 
Barley was humankind‘s first cultivated grain and was 
probably fermented into beer somewhat before the first 
baker made the first loaf of bread. 
There’s a /ot of /iter- 
ature available to help you become part of that history. 
The World Guide to Beer serves as an excellent intro- 
duction to the product, if you need one, and any of the 
home brewing guides can lead you through the process 
and the alternatives. 
The ingredients will be found at any 
of the stores that carry home wine and beer making 
supplies, and most of the utensils are probably already 
in your kitchen. 
Malt solution must be boiled only ina 
stainless steel or enameled steel pot. A plastic wastebasket 
makes a dandy primary fermenter and the traditional 
secondary fermenter is a 5 gallon glass water bottle with 
a fermentation 
lock on the top. A hydrometer must be 
used to test the progress of fermentation. 
A Treatise on Lager Beers 
This is one of the books most frequently recommended 
by other home-brewing authors. 
Eckhardt has obviously 
spent a great deal of time and thought on beermaking and 
especially on the relatively long, refrigerated, secondary 
fermentation called lagering, and as such this book is a 
good complement to the British books with their 
emphasis on the relatively quicker and warmer fermenting 
ales. 
There are recipes for ales and steam beer and the 
“your first simple beer” recipe calls for corn sugar as a 
major ingredient, but Eckhardt pushes the advantages of 
using all malt and makes it clear what he considers to be 
the True Path. Included is an interesting matrix-type 
recipe for thirty German-style beers — all one page 
spread! Very competent book. Eckhardt is also the 
editor of The Amateur Brewer. 
A Treatise on 
Lager Beers 
(How to Make Good 
Beer at Home) 
Fred Eckhardt 
1970, 1979; 53 pp. 
5th Edition 
$2 postpaid from: 
Fred Eckhardt 
Associates 
P.O. Box 546 
Portland, OR 97207 
Home brewery flow chart. 
BOTTLING 
The World Guide to Beer 
Whether you favor a Henry’s after a dusty volleyball game 
on Gate Five Road or take an icy Coors in one hand as 
you finesse your way through afternoon traffic on Pacific 
Coast Highway in your Speedster or remember a shared 
Biére d’Alsace in the gently quaking shade of an ancient 
chestnut, youll LOVE this book. 
It has all the malty 
warmth of Optimator and the rosy fragrance of dry- 
hopped Anchor Steam. 
It has lore galore. The World 
Guide js at once /iterate, humorous, thorough, and 
graphically arresting as Jackson traces the History and 
the histories, and identifies the personalities behind the 
world’s breweries and their beers. 
There’s enough tech- 
nical detail to interest the home brewer though the book 
in no way attempts to even introduce that craft; this is a 
book for the consumer. 
There is tremendous variety in 
the hundreds of breweries and beers produced on every 
continent from the straits of Good Hope and Magellan 
and from New Zealand through the torrid and intem- 
perate zones of Great Consumption to the Arctic Circle. 
Theyre all here and the flavor comes right through. 
Makes me thirsty. 
The World Guide 
to Beer 
Michael Jackson, Editor 
1977; 255 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
Ballantine Books 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The Kalevala, the national epic of Finland, manages to 
describe the creation of the world in 200 verses, but requires 
400 in which to explain the origins of beer. No wonder 
Julius Caesar described it as “a high and mighty liquor.” 
Pp) tae ee 
“te-, 
~ COMMUNIT 
BEER 
Quality Brewing 
One of the competent straightforward beermaking books 
with little of the chumminess of the English books and 
none of the giggly humor of a whole raft of American 
homebrew books (none reviewed here) whose sometimes- 
good recipes and competent advice are buried by cutesy 
titles (usually involving plays on words), long anecdotes, 
and lots of back- and thigh-slapping jokes. Burch has a 
very thorough section on procedures and quite a detailed 
description of the properties of various hop varieties. 
And he has some terrific recipes. 
| brewed a batch of 
his “Full Bodied Brown Bitter Ale” that brought tears 
to the eyes of Anglomaltophiles (good tears, not bad 
tears), and my “Irish Type Stout” from his recipe was 
proclaimed by one who had been there to be as good as 
any that’d flowed from behind St. James Gate, Dublin 
(that’s Guinness, mates). 
The latest edition of Quality 
Brewing inc/udes the recipe for the stout that won Burch 
the gold medal in international competition in Spring 1980. 
Quality Brewing 
(A Guidebook for 
the Home Production 
of Fine Beers) 
Byron Burch 
1974, 1979; 50 pp. 
$3.25 postpaid from: 
Great Fermentations 
87 Larkspur Street 
San Rafael, CA 94901 
A quiet revolution has been taking place these last few 
years in the world of home brewing. So sweeping have 
been the changes that a practitioner of ten years ago 
would hardly recognize his craft (had he not kept up in 
the meantime). 
Fortunately the new developments have 
resulted in vastly better beers. Significant advances have 
been made in the twin realms of technology and ingredi- 
ents. The home brewer can now appropriate virtually all 
beneficial practices of the commercial brewery. By apply- 
ing these techniques to top quality malts, hops, and 
yeasts, he can create superb beers. 
Mail order brewing supplies 
Read one of the brewing books before you send for 
catalogs. 
Look for local suppliers in your Yellow Pages 
under “Brewer’s Equipment and Supplies” or “Wine- 
making Supplies.” The following list is only a sample. 
Wine and the People, 907 University Avenue, Berkeley, 
CA 94710. Great newsletter. 
E.C. Kraus, P.O. Box 7850, Independence, MO 64053. 
Semplex of U.S.A., 4805 Lyndale Ave. N., Minneapolis, 
MN 55430. Old company with European origins. 
Duane Imports, Ltd., 508 Canal St., New York, NY 10013. 
Brick Store Brewer's Supplies, The Common, Stratford, 
VT 05072. Simple, clear catalog. 
Home Beermaking 
Can’t get much simpler than this. Another of the inside- 
every-homebrew-supply-store-there’s-a-writer-tired-of- 
answering-questions-for-free books. 
Covers ingredients, 
process, refinements, alternatives, equipment and starts 
you with six classically simple recipes for ales, lagers, or 
steam beer. 
Crystal-clear and dry as the best pilsner, and 
spare of words — Moore says in mere paragraphs what 
Dave Line takes chapters to cover. And — blessed relief 
— the recipes are all malt — NO white or corn sugar 
except for priming. Looks great. 
Home Beermaking 
(The Complete 
Beginner’s Guidebook) 
William Moore 
1980; 43 pp. 
$2 postpaid from: 
William's Brewing 
P.O. Box 461 
Oakland, CA 94604 
e 
San Francisco Steam Beer 
A full-flavor lager beer with a strong hop aroma. 
For 
authenticity of flavor, ferment at 60 to 70 degrees =. 
5 pounds light dry malt or 6 pounds light 
malt extract syrup 
3/4 pound crushed crystal grain 
4 ounces American Cascade hops 
2 packets lager yeast 
1 teaspoon gypsum 
Y% teaspoon citric acid 
4 ounces corn sugar (for carbonation) 
Starting gravity 43, finishes at 14 or less. Alcohol 3.8%. 
The Big Book of Brewing 
None of the amateur brewers books are very big — many 
are almost brochures — but this one is bigger than most. 
For the home brewer this must be ranked as the most 
complete-in-one-place manual and includes malting 
(which is the sprouting of the grain barley — the very 
first stage of the starch-to-fermentable sugar conversion 
process — probably attempted by only the most adven- 
turesome brewer), and esoterica such as reconditioning 
of old wooden casks. Line has devoted whole chapters 
to subjects discussed in mere paragraphs in most books. 
There is some technical discussion and a little math but 
nothing that should tax the intelligence of even most 
beer drinkers. With one caution the book is logically 
laid out and literate in the English fashion. 
The caution 
relates to that English fashion. Anyone who got a kick 
out of word-playing with the mis-translations that used 
to appear in the instructions for Japanese toys, for 
instance, will love English brewing books. 
It’s a different 
language, my fellow Americans. 
But, like learning Japa- 
nese while reading Shogun, you ‘/ pick it up as you go 
along. Lots of recipes and discussion of beer types, and 
also in the English fashion, too much white sugar. 
The Big Book 
of Brewing 
Dave Line 
1974; 256 pp. 
$5 postpaid from: 
Great Fermentations 
87 Larkspur Street 
San Rafael, CA 94901 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The Amateur Brewer 
This is allegedly a quarterly “for the serious home brewer.” 
You‘d have to be a patient home brewer too. 
Editor 
Eckhardt’s years get a little stretchy. As of summer 1980, 
his summer 1979 is still the current issue. But if you sub- 
scribe you get four issues anyhow — however /ong it takes. 
And it’s worth waiting for. 
Very rich in technical tidbits 
and news from the commercial front, giving us access to 
the biggest research labs. Long articles discuss single 
beer types or arcana such as growing hops. Number Six, 
for instance, is devoted to articles about yeasts. 
Each 
issue has brewery news, club news, and 
book and product reviews. 
Not stylish and not humor- 
ous, but youll appreciate 
what Eckhardt is doing. 
The Amateur Brewer 
Fred Eckhardt 
$5.95 /four issues from: 
Amateur Brewer 
P.O. Box 546 
Portland, OR 97207 
Sas 
oie te) Beas e) Cin ho) 6 ke 
be eh) ble e Or Ee 
01S enee 
: NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
» %& 
: If you can tread on six daisies with one step, you 
- know that summer is here. 
—David’s mother 
oN 
Ais 
8 
