COMMUNITY 
VEGETARIAN COOKING 
The Tassajara Bread Book 
Here’s a breadmaking guide that stands on profound 
respect for simple, wholesome ingredients and a “‘rip- 
ening, maturing, baking, blossoming” process, that turns 
a glob of dough into a fragrant food fit for anyone’s 
meal. Good bread is always magically more than the sum 
of its ingredients. 
There are recipes for breads yeasted and unyeasted, 
fruit-filled loaves, sourdough, pancakes, pastries, muffins, 
and various favorite snacks from the Tassajara kitchen. 
This zen cook knows the true nature of bread. 
—Hal Hershey 
The Tassajara 
Bread Book 
Edward Espe Brown 
1970; 146 pp. 
$6.50 postpaid from: 
Shambhala Publications 
P.O. Box 271 
Boulder, CO 80306 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Swedish Tea Ring (see illustrations) 
Looks so good, a blossoming flower of fruit-filled bread. 
(Serves 4 - 6) 
Use Yeasted Breakfast Bread Dough recipe No. 19. As 
dough is rising, simmer until thickened: 
Tassajara Cooking 
The Tassajara Bread Book showed what else goes into 
outstanding bread besides flour. Now Ed Brown and the 
Tassajara Zen Center are back to show us the rest of the 
kitchen. 
These ascetic Bay Area zennies continually 
smite my secularity with the best cooking I’ve ever eaten. 
Some asceticism. 
They cook a good cookbook too. 
Universally acclaimed. 
—SB 
$7.50 postpaid from: 
Shambhala Publications 
P.O. Box 271 
Boulder, CO 80306 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
TARGET 
ae 
Tassajara Cooking 
Edward Espe Brown 
1973; 242 pp. _ 
About Guiding the Knife 
Keep your right hand dumb. 
It's just going to cut cut cut, 
always guided by the last knuckle of the middle finger 
of the left hand. Either the left hand walks back along 
the vegetable, the knife following, moving over just as 
far as the retreating knuckle, or the left hand inches the 
vegetable forward, maintaining its own position. 
C 
Being good friends with the knives, clean and replace 
them in the knife rack after use. 
1 c chopped pitted prunes or dates or raisins 
% t cinnamon (nutmeg or allspice are good too) 
1 T lemon juice (or orange) 
% c brown sugar (or 1 t vanilla extract) 
1/8 t salt 
After dough has risen, roll out to 12" x 14’’. Spread 
with fruit mixture (Figure 54). Roll as for jelly roll 
(Figure 55). Place on greased sheet and join ends (Figure 
56). Cut 1” slits with scissors (Figure 57). Twist if you 
wish (Figures 58 and 59). Allow to rise double in bulk. 
Brush with egg wash. Bake at 350° for 30 - 40 minutes 
until golden brown. Frost with liquidy mixture of beaten 
egg white sweetened to taste with powdered sugar. 
The Vegetarian Epicure 
The pages of our copies of The Vegetarian Epicure, Parts 
1 & II, are spattered with sauces and memories, to my 
mind one of the best recommendations for a cookbook. 
They are used more than any other cook books in our 
house of gourmet cooks and critical eaters. Anna Thomas 
has a delightful, innovative way with spices and herbs, 
and we have yet to cook an unsatisfactory dish from her 
recipes (with the possible exception of parsleyed eggs — 
they ‘re green and weird looking). Her text is informative, 
informal, and easy to follow, with suggested menu plans, 
a discussion of handy and necessary tools, and basic 
instructions at the beginning of each chapter. 
The line 
drawings are delightful, and convey the spirit of the 
books; a sense of joy in both the preparation and eating 
of epicurean vegetarian meals. 
—Evelyn Eldridge-Diaz 
The Vegetarian 
Epicure 
Anna Thomas 
1972; 305 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
The Vegetarian 
Epicure 
(Book Two) 
Anna Thomas 
1978; 401 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid 
both from: 
Alfred A. Knopf, Inc. 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
People have approached me, puzzled, and asked how 
vegetarians eat. Their puzzlement is genuine. They try to 
imagine their own meals without meat and shudder. But 
when | imagine their meals | shudder too, because the 
standard American diet is so appalling in its lack of 
imagination. 
Even in finer cooking, the variety is largely 
limited to the preparation of the main course, almost 
without exception meat or fish. The menu is thus rigidly 
standardized. There is one important item: the entree. 
In a very secondary place, really playing the role of 
uninspired accompaniment to the meat, are such things as 
salad, vegetables, and bread. The standard menu is served 
with but little change from day to day or week to week, 
the ‘‘square’’ meal certainly is. 
Vegetarian cookery is not a substitute for anything. 
It is 
a rich and various cuisine, full of many marvelous dishes 
with definite characteristics not in imitation of anything 
else — certainly not in imitation of meat. 
—The Vegetarian Epicure 
To make an individual omelet, two eggs are generally 
sufficient, but three can be used if the appetite warrants 
it. Beat the eggs briefly in a bowl with a pinch of salt and 
a smaller pinch of pepper, as well as a dash of milk or 
cream if you like. Heat an 8- or 9-inch omelet pan and 
melt about 1 tablespoon butter in it, swirling the butter 
all over the bottom of the pan. When the butter has 
melted and foamed and the foam has begun to subside, 
set a medium flame, pour in the beaten eggs, and tilt the 
Pan around gently so that the eggs spread evenly over the 
bottom. 
In a moment, the eggs will begin to set. When 
they do, run the spatula once around the edge of the 
omelet to loosen it, and shake the pan a bit. Then start 
carefully lifting the edges with your spatula and tilting 
the pan to let the uncooked eggs on top run to the bottom. 
In less than a minute, the omelet will be nearly done. 
Give the pan another quick shake to keep the eggs from 
sticking. The top of the omelet, at this point, should be 
moist but not runny. 
If you are filling your omelet, 
spoon in some of the prepared filling now. Then slip a 
spatula under one side and fold it over the other. Leave 
the omelet in the pan just a few seconds more before 
sliding it out onto a warm plate. The omelet should be 
golden in color and tender and creamy inside. And it 
must be served immediately! 
—The Vegetarian Epicure, Part Two 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
Being good friends with the sponge, rinse and wring it 
out; with the towels fold and hang them up, and wash 
when dirty, or before. 
Being good friends with the counter, wipe it after use, and 
scrub sometimes; with the floor, sweep and mop. Get into 
the corners, and when you’re done, stand the broom on 
end or hang it ona hook. After cleaning a greasy floor 
sprinkle some salt where it’s still slippery. 
Being good friends with the dish sponge, don’t use it on 
the floor. 
Use the dish towel for dishes, and have another 
for face and hands. 
Being good friends with the scraps and trimmings, make 
some stock. 
Clean the sinks! 
Clear the drains! 
e 
Outline for Making Salads 
Background Ingredients: 
lettuce, cabbage, carrots, spinach, cucumber, cauliflower, 
broccoli, potatoes, sprouts, beets, tomatoes, green beans, 
asparagus, other? 
beans: kidney, lentil, garbanzo, other? 
grains: rice, bulgur wheat, other? 
The ingredient upon which a particular salad is based is 
the ‘‘Background,”’ which is how the salad gets its name, 
for instance, ‘‘Potato Salad.” 
Foreground Ingredients: 
green, yellow or purple onions, celery, green peppers, 
red radishes, capers, dill or sweet pickles, olives, cheese, 
nuts, seeds, fruit and dried fruit 
These are employed to compliment each other and the 
basic ingredient, adding color, shape, taste, zest. The 
ingredients listed under “‘Background” could also be used 
in lesser amounts as ‘’Foreground”’ ingredients. 
lf a salad is kept fairly simple, say three or five ingredi- 
ents, each ingredient can have some prominence, but it is 
also intriguing to “hide” ingredients in a salad. Consider 
how to cut each thing. How does it look? How well does 
it taste when bitten into? Can it be easily chewed? 
Does 
it need cooking? 
Consider how to arrange the ingredients: 
Mixed together? 
Separate rows? 
Circles? 
Layers? Dressing in the middle 
surrounded by the salad ingredients? 
If each ingredient to 
be used is kept in a separate bowl, some of them may be 
arranged decoratively on top of the salad rather than 
being mixed in. 
Laurel’s Kitchen 
There are lots of vegetarian cookbooks around. 
The big 
difference here, the one which makes this book superior, 
is that Laurel’s Kitchen has a giant 180-page section on 
nutrition. 
There are complete descriptions of the 
different food components, analyses of foods, calorie- 
computation tables, and a good bibliography. 
You can 
cook a recipe from the front of the book, then refer to 
the back to see how much of which minerals, carbo- 
hydrates, etc., you gave your family that day. Tasty 
recipes, too. Tom Ferguson, our medical editor, gives 
itan At. 
—Evelyn Eldridge-Diaz 
Laurel’s Kitchen 
- 
(A Handbook for 
Vegetarian Cookery 
and Nutrition) 
Laurel Robertson, et al. 
1976; 508 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, |L 60016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Don't let the time factor keep you from fixing hot 
whole-grain cereals for your family’s breakfast. Many of 
us are in the habit of setting up the coffee pot as soon as 
we can grope our way to the kitchen — it takes no more 
effort to get the cereal started, and within a half hour 
(while you're dressing or meditating) 
it's cooked. 
Measure out the water and cereal the night before, so 
it's all ready to go. Even faster is the thermos method: 
Put % cup or so of cereal into a preheated pint-sized 
thermos, fill it up with boiling water, cap it, and let it 
stand overnight. By breakfast time, the cereal is cooked 
and piping hot. 
If it’s thick, thin it to taste with more 
hot water. 
ee 
eee 
eee 
eee 
eee 
eee 
eee 
eee essere eees 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
sy 
“I'd like something Brian Eno would wear please.” 
—David in the clothes store 
