HO 
¥ 
Man and Earth’s Ecosystems 
1 don’t know that anyone has tried this before, a kind of 
regional culture history of the world in terms of environ- 
mental consequences of man’s activities. Contemporary 
review of human-caused landscape modification from the 
first purposefully set fire (Peking Man was a charcoal- 
maker) right down to the latest oil spill or reactor leak. 
Some of these things are covered in the old-style economic 
and cultural geographies but they take on new and deeper 
meaning in this explicitly ecologic context. 
The real meat 
lies in the continent-by-continent surveys of human 
influences on the ecosystems of Subsaharan Africa, of 
Asia, of Europe and the Mediterranean, of Australia, of 
North America and of Latin America. 
To emphasize the 
time dimension each region is presented in the order in 
which the genus Homo appears in the known fossil or 
cultural record. 
The concluding chapters are on islands 
(Hawaii, New Zealand, Madagascar) and on the oceans. 
Human influences on vegetation, on animal life, on 
surface and subsurface waters, on soils and geomorphology, 
on the atmosphere are discussed for each. 
Fire, agricul- 
tural systems, and the deliberate or accidental transfers 
of both wild and domestic plants and animals from one 
part of the world to another receive special emphasis. 
Carl Sauer would have approved. 
This is the basic text 
for a new ecosystems analysis major at UCLA. Photos are 
superb. 
It just might give you a new faith in what higher 
education is up to, and geographers. 
—James J. Parsons 
(See Environmental Conservation, p. 50.) 
Man and Earth’s 
Ecosystems 
(An Introduction to the 
Geography of Human 
Modification of the Earth) 
Charles F. Bennett, Jr. 
1976; 331 pp. 
$18.95 postpaid from: 
John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 
One Wiley Drive 
Somerset, NJ 10873 
How to Save the World 
At last. A world conservation strategy. 
With the clout of 
major international organizations behind it — the Interna- 
tional Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural 
Resources, the United Nations Environment Programme, 
and the World Wildlife Fund — here is a planet-scale 
priority list of where and how to proceed to save the most 
and best of the Earth’s endangered diversity. 
This isa 
greatly needed perspective. 
/t’s all too easy to lose a 
continent while saving a species, and then lose the 
species too. 
How to Save the World 
(Strategy for World 
Conservation) 
Robert Allen 
1980; 150 pp. 
$1 2.95 postpaid from: 
Unipub 
P.O. Box 433 
Murray Hill Station 
New York, NY 10016 
e 
Irreversibility is the key criterion: highest priority is given 
to significant, urgent requirements to prevent further 
irreversible damage to living resources, notably the extinc- 
tion of species, the extinction of varieties of useful plants 
and animals, the loss of essential life-support systems, 
and severe soil degradation. 
| 
"gates 
| 
5 
ze 
sz 
a) 
“2000 
-+ 
2020 
If current rates of land degradation continue, close to 
one-third of the world’s arable land (symbolized by the 
stalk of grain) will be destroyed in the next 20 years. 
Similarly, by the end of this century (at present rates of 
clearance), the remaining area of unlogged productive 
tropical forest will be halved. During this period the 
world population is expected to increase by almost half 
— from just over 4000 million to just under 6000 million. 
Terraced slopes in the Andes 
The Sinking Ark 
In the Bible, God tells man to take dominion over the 
species of the earth. Maybe that’s too big a task so we're 
cutting the field down to a manageable size. The Sinking 
Ark te//s of the wondrous things we’re beginning to learn 
from our fellow species. Lichens can monitor heavy 
metals pollution and black bear hormones revitalize 
human kidneys. What’s needed to stop the assau/t before 
we wipe out nature’s library of knowledge, the gene pool? 
Myers cites some political/economic measures for multi- 
national corporations and governments to try, but his real 
hope is that the third world countries will develop and 
urbanize rapidly and leave the tropical rain forests alone. 
—Rosemary Menninger 
The Sinking Ark 
Norman Myers 
1979; 307 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
Pergamon Press 
Maxwell House 
Fairview Park 
Elmsford, NY 10523 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The elimination of species would represent a distinct loss 
to society. Already tropical-forest species have made a 
major contribution to human welfare. They have sup- 
plied the origins of many staple foods, rice, millet, 
. 
cassava, pigeon pea, mung bean, yam, taro, banana, pine- 
apple and sugarcane, to name but the better known. A 
huge cornucopia of further foods waits to be investigated. 
In Indonesia alone, around 4000 plant species are thought 
to have proved useful to native peoples as food of one 
sort or another, yet less than one-tenth have come into 
wide use. At least 1650 plants of tropical forests offer 
highly nutritious leaves. 
In New Guinea, 251 tree species 
bear edible fruit, though only 43 have been brought into 
cultivation; a hitherto uncultivated fruit of Southeast 
Asia, the mangosteen, has been described as ‘‘perhaps the 
world’s best tasting fruit.” A vine from tropical forests 
of southern China, known as the Chinese gooseberry, 
bears fruit with juice 15 - 18 times richer in vitamin Cc 
than orange juice. Nor are all these foods limited to 
local consumption; high protein beans from Nigeria have 
found favor with Wisconsin farmers. 
ANCE 
OF WILD VEGETATION 
SOUTH AMERICA _| 
40° 
MAJOR. 
DISTURBANCE: 
ae errs ONLY OF WILD 
VEGETATION 
Eas Monr 
‘TE TO HEAVY 
DISTU 
CE? SCATTERED 
E 
3 OF Wi 
VEGETATION 
(CIT igi BART AN 
GRE 
VEGETATION 
eae 
4 
~|LITTLE OR_NO DISTUR~ 
BANCE’ ESSENTIALLY 
40 
“CLIMAXK" VEGETATION 
80" 
60° 
40 
€ The development of irrigation systems in the Andean 
region is still the object of intensive study. The first 
known efforts of water control occurred in the oasis- 
like coastal valleys of Peru. They were later extended to 
the highland basins and valley slopes, where they 
underwent further development and modification. The 
irrigation works near the coast included great canals, 
sometimes extending for many kilometers, aqueducts, 
which carried water across valleys, and elaborate terrace 
systems, which may have been built partly to conserve 
water as well as soil. The earthworks associated with 
this water control may still be seen over thousands of 
square kilometers. They are evidence of the huge input 
of human labor extending over centuries since neither 
machines nor the wheel were available to these people. 
The water in the coastal valley streams and the limited 
runoff in parts of the central Andes were brought under 
the almost complete control of man. 
Earthbound 
Park is one of the most distinguished geologists in the 
country, and a director of a mining company. 
He was 
David Brower’s worthiest adversary in McPhee’s Encounters 
with the Archdruid. 
There he emerged as knowledgeable, 
resolutely practical, hard-thinking . 
. 
. compelling. 
Earthbound /s what you’d expect from such a man. 
Although it assumes that the status quo will likely be 
more persistent than many would wish (scoffs at windmills, 
hopes that we’l/ overcome our childish fears of nuclear 
reactors, sees very generous profits as vital to extractive 
industries), it isn’t unsound. A certain disagreement with 
a good author can put a keen edge on one’s appreciation 
of his/her work. 
The substance of Park’s book is a quick and lucid intro- 
duction to mining — what is extracted from the earth, 
where it comes from, how it is mined, what it is used for, 
political situations affecting supplies — in short, a crash 
course in understanding the skeleton of our civilization. 
Amply illustrated with graphs, laden with facts, offering 
a different perspective, Earthbound /s a good solid refer- 
ence book for the eco-catastrophobe. 
— Stephanie Mills 
Earthbound 
(Minerals, Energy, and 
Man’‘s Future) 
Charles F. Park, Jr. 
1975; 279 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid from: 
Freeman, Cooper & Co. 
1736 Stockton Street 
San Francisco, CA 94133 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
There has been, and still is, an unbelievable amount of 
searching for copper, and there are nations whose entire 
economies depend upon this metal. We note also that, 
although available quantities of most of the nonferrous 
metals have increased in the past few years, greater 
availability increased their usefulness. For that reason the 
demand has increased, so the metals remain in short 
supply. Substitutes for all uses of these metals have not 
been found; there is nothing at present that can for all 
needs take the place of copper or of mercury. 
We note also in how many cases the manufacture of 
these metals requires large amounts of inexpensive energy. 
