Studio Potter Book 
AN 
The best of the first twelve issues of Studio Potter 
magazine — if you‘re a recent subscriber it would be 
well worth having. 
—Mary Law 
The Studio 
Potter Book 
Gerry Williams, et al. 
1978; 304 pp. 
$22.50 postpaid from: 
Van Nostrand Reinhold 
Order Department 
7625 Empire Drive 
Florence, KY 41042 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
The Mark of This Fire 
| am not interested in how fast | can reach temperature. 
If rapid firing were my goal, wood surely would not be 
my choice of fuel. 
It is the oneness with the kiln — the 
exhilaration — the awe of firing. Both of these emotions 
are heightened by the physical effort involved. 
From dull red to bright yellow a quiet strength is gather- 
ing in the kiln. During the glaze reduction there is a 
“voice” in the stack — | usually reply. 
All firing alters the ware, but my pots, fired unsaggered 
in this wood-burning kiln, have an additional alteration. 
During the firing, wood ash is deposited on the ware 
throughout the pot chamber; when high temperatures 
are reached the ash melts and fuses with the glaze, 
engobe, or with the clay of the pot. 
Over the years that | have fired with wood these variable 
effects of the wood ash have become more and more 
predictable and thus planned for. 
It is this variable and 
unique quality — the mark inherent to this fire — that 
continues to hold my interest, is often my delight, and 
that always demands my respect. 
—Ruth Gowdy McKinley 
“< 
CRAFT 
CERAMICS 257 
Studio Potter 
Truly a magazine written by potters for potters (and glass- 
workers). Each issue is jam-packed with information 
about how other potters operate. Frequently you will 
find alternative solutions, especially concerning energy, 
and ways to make traditional methods more efficient. 
—Mary Law 
A fantastic magazine! 
Studio Potter 
Peter Sabin and 
Gerry Williams, Editors 
$8.50 /year (2 issues) 
from: 
Studio Potter 
Box 172 
Warner, NH 03278 
Porcelain is a kind of in-word among potters and those 
who buy pots. Everyone talks about P*O*R*C*E*- 
L*A*I*N. 
It has become P*O*P*U*L*A*R. As fre- 
quently happens, this enlarges the definitions, which 
sounds grand but frequently means only the removal of 
standards. This has certainly happened with and to porce- 
lain, and almost any clay which fires white is now called 
porcelain and takes advantage of the fashion. 
Porcelain is white and translucent, clay-becoming-glass, 
a transition between the opaque and the transparent, 
between earth and air. Difficult enough to work, with 
little of the fluid plasticity of stoneware, in the kiln it 
will warp, stick down, distort, destruct unless it is 
treated with a special respect and consideration. 
e 
| Like Porcelain Because Blood Shows Up Better On It. 
John Knapp’s woodfired climbing kiln 1978. 
The Potter’s Dictionary 
A thick glossy technical manual, full of lucid and compre- 
hensive answers to all manner of questions about potting. 
Organized as a dictionary, it has very complete and 
detailed essays on glazing, clay, and firing chemistry 
and processes, e.g., “crack” — 8 pages! 
My only criticisms are that it has little to say on design or 
throwing problems, and, written for a British audience, 
gives a fair amount of space to British potting terms, 
pictures and historical descriptions of British wares. 
For 
advanced potters concerned with solving many of the 
complex problems often left untouched and unanswered 
in the flood of how-to books of recent years. 
—Elina Holst Levy 
The Potter's 
Dictionary of 
Materials and 
Techniques 
Frank Hamer 
1975; 349 pp. 
$30 postpaid from: 
Watson-Guptil 
2160 Patterson Street 
Cincinnati, OH 45214 
» 
Bunk Haw? 
Ceramics Monthly 
Informative and newsy (enables you to keep up on who’s 
showing where and what work they’re doing). CMis much 
improved over the past several years. 
(It used to fee/ more 
like a hobbyist’s magazine.) Every issue con tains: notice 
of upcoming exhibitions, fairs and sales; reviews of exhi- 
Ceramics Monthly 
Spencer L. Davis, Editor 
$12 /year (10 issues) 
from: 
| 
f 
Circulation Department 
Ceramics Monthly 
Box 12448 
Columbus, OH 43212 
bitions; specific technical information, such as glaze 
recipes; picture-laden articles on individual artist /potters; 
a wonderful array of ads for suppliers of materials, equip- 
ment, tools and books. 
—Mary Law 
Representing explorations of surface treatment, a one- 
man show of salt-glazed stoneware by Jeff Procter, 
Salem, Oregon, was presented at Bush Barn Art Center, 
Salem, through March. Having employed salt-glazing 
for the past ten years, Jeff continues that tradition, com- 
bining it with local clay glazes, iron oxide slips and 
Barnard clay washes; rutile slip patterns are sponge- 
stamped for additional detailing. 
Pueeretelel 
6 
6-2 
© «0 
6 0 0 6 4 e es 
ee 
6 8 e 
L 
In throwing, the hands describe a slow spiral up a pot in 
a clockwise direction — clockwise seen from above on an 
anti-clockwise wheel. The particles will follow this course 
which coincides with the throwing rings. The line of 
greatest shrinkage therefore becomes a steep twist at 
right angles to the throwing rings. A quickly thrown pot 
will have more twist shrinkage than one thrown slowly 
with very close throwing rings. 
nd spiral 
“A 
=) 
Levigation. The process of passing a thin slurry through a 
series of traps where the heavier particles settle and finer 
particles overflow. The process is used for clays which 
contain unwanted material like sand which is too fine to 
be caught in a mesh. 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
SO 
David was wondering how long people will keep 
saying they are dialing the phone when they're 
really punching the phone. Dial could go into the 
2000s as one of those common words that seems 
mysterious when you think about it or it could 
be replaced by punch soon when everyone’s 
punching computers and makes the transfer. 
