fol Bt ig accessorie 
}-105-000-1, 6" F/2.8, lens 
P, 
01-104-000, lens cover, P/N 30)-105- 
filter, P/N 301-105-000-2(6); filter P/N 
000-3-(2B); and case P/N 301-162-000, 
000-909-4331. 
Can ™ Row 04 - 
In Boxes, Cans, Cartons 
= Good Condition 
20 EACH 
the Following Articles apply: 
Al: 
Military/Munitions List Items 
AP: tie-in or All-or-None Bids 
CAMERA, STILL PICTURE, HAND HELM: 
Same description 
and contract provisions as Item 365. 
20 EACH 
CAMERA, STILL PICTURE, HAND HELN: 
Same description 
and contract provisions as Item 365 
20 EACH 
ss 
excess property in their region. If they notify you they 
have found a match to your needs lists, you then put a 
request for approval through normal channels. 
In most 
cases the only GSA charge to your budget is the cost of 
transportation, though some agencies add further charges 
if you are a government contractor rather than a govern- 
ment employee. 
You may want to try this program even 
though you qualify under other programs (e.g. you do 
federally funded research at a state university). 
Under 
the federal utilization program your request has a higher 
priority and usually lower cost than under the state 
donation program. 
The major disadvantage to the federal 
utilization program is that you may have to return the 
property when the federal contract expires. 
SPECIAL DEAL FOR NON-PROFIT GROUPS 
Each state has an agency for distributing donated federal 
surplus personal property to non-profit groups within 
their borders. 
Eligible recipients include some /ndian 
groups, local and state entities, educational and health 
activities (e.g., child care centers, PBS TV 
stations, 
schools) and educational activities of special interest to 
the armed services (e.g., the Camp Fire Girls). The state 
agency charges only what it costs them to handle it. 
Usually you get a very good price, but on occasion you 
may do better by buying from the public sale auction 
and sealed bid sales. Naturally each state has a slightly 
different title for the agency responsible. 
Try writing 
“State Agency for Federal Property Assistance” at your 
state capitol for information on how to qualify. If that 
doesn’t work, request: 
free from: 
Office of Personal 
Property Disposal (FW) 
Federal Property 
Resources Service 
U.S. General Services 
Administration 
Washington, D.C. 20406 
Federal Surplus 
Personal Property 
Donation Programs 
GENERAL INFO ON SURPLUS SALES 
The following pamphlet is a bit sketchy and overpriced, 
but it seems to be the only general guide around. 
/t will 
at least give you current addresses for further information 
on special programs: sales to fire fighting agencies, law 
enforcement, local sales, etc. 
It is worth noting their 
comments on the rumored $50 jeeps: 
Jeeps are limited in quantity and the possibility of jeeps in 
operable condition being offered for sale is very remote. 
Additionally, the M151 series vehicles have been deter- 
mined to be unsafe for public highway use by the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Accord- 
ingly, these vehicles must be mutilated by cutting the 
three rear differential mounting pads out of the body 
frame and the body completely cut and severed at a point 
near the center of the vehicle. This is a safety require- 
ment. Generally, jeeps sold by the Department of 
Defense are used, no longer meet military standards 
because of age and/or condition and in most cases are 
missing various components. They are sold at location 
by competitive bid. 
From time to time stories or rumors are circulated advis- 
ing the public that jeeps are available for unusually low 
prices if bought in quantity or disassembled in crates. 
Such stories are unfounded and should be brought to the 
attention of the DOD Bidders Control Office, P.O. Box 
1370, Battle Creek, Michigan 49016. 
/ once saw a DOD Jeep sold for about fifty bucks, but it 
had suffered extensive “air drop damage” (military par- 
lance for what happens when a parachute fails to open). 
Note that if what you want is a four whee! drive vehicle, 
and a station wagon or truck rather than a jeep will do, 
a fair supply in good condition are sold by GSA as surplus 
from civilian agencies — Immigration, USGS, and the 
Forest Service. 
$1 postpaid from: 
Superintendent of 
Documents 
U.S. Govt. Printing Office 
Washington, D.C. 20402 
How to Buy Surplus 
Personal Property 
From The Department 
of Defense 
No. 008-007-02939-8 
DEFENSE SURPLUS 
Much of the surplus you see in your neighborhood Army 
and Navy store may have come from a nearby Depart- 
ment of Defense retail store where you can buy small 
quantities from Uncle exactly as the store owner did. 
While intended to be open to all, the retail stores are 
becoming more difficult to find and visit. 
Your neigh- 
borhood store owner probably will not help. Many 
Defense Surplus Sales Offices (a list of these come when 
you request a Department of Defense Surplus Bidder 
application [below] ) have retail stores, and each will 
send a list of those in your area on request. 
Competitive 
bid bulk lot sales are basically simple once you get into 
them, but none of the information the Government sends 
you will allow you to believe a non professional can 
figure it out. 
“Sale by Reference,” a Department of 
Defense term for non retail sales, includes methods no 
more esoteric than an auction. 
The only way to find out 
easily about these non retail sales is to put your name 
on the DOD mailing list for sale announcements. 
For the 
DOD there is one central address for the continental 
United States. 
You must ask specifically if you also want 
announcements of sales in Alaska, Morocco, etc. 
In 
exchange for your name and address to the below central 
office, you will get a bidder’s application form asking 
which kinds of things you are interested in purchasing 
and which geographic regions you will purchase from. 
Check every type of thing you conceivably may need, 
since adding another category will take at least six weeks. 
Check at least two nearby geographic regions, and all 
geographical regions if you are interested in vehicles, 
boats, aircraft. When your “bidder’s application” 
is 
returned you will receive a pamphlet entitled “Sale by 
Reference” containing page after page of impenetrable 
small print, DO NOT CHUCK IT OUT, save it for ye 
shall need it. Also, save the sale catalogs for “sealed 
bid” sales for about 6 months. Get in the habit of 
looking at the mailing label! on your sales announcements. 
Every two months or so the numeral 2 will appear in the 
middle of the first line, and you must send back a post 
card saying you are still interested in receiving the 
announcements. 
If you forget, it will again take at least 
six weeks to get back on the mailing list. 
A recent convenience from the DOD: Customer Service 
on Small Parcel Post Shipments. 
If your bid wins on 
items marked “mailable” 
in the sale catalog, DOD will 
pack and mail it to you for a small service charge 
(typically $4) plus postage. Be sure to note special con- 
ditions and loading legends. A 60 foot landing craft may 
seem ideal for a house boat until you notice the loading 
legend requires you remove it by truck rather than the 
nearby water way. 
You might want to consider this an 
indirect warning that DOD is afraid a dry docked vessel 
may sink in their harbor. 
free from: 
Department of Defense 
Surplus Sales 
P.O. Box 1370 
Battle Creek, MI 49016 
Bidders List 
Application 
GSA (CIVILIAN) SURPLUS 
presence of a GSA Business Service Center functionary. 
This functionary facilitated my discussion with sales 
officials until | attempted to discuss with them possible 
means of increasing revenue and participation. 
Then the 
functionary terminated my discussion with the GSA 
sales officials. Such questions, it seems, are “vague, 
meandering, hypothetical, and a waste of the time of 
GSA sales officials.” 
Buying Government 
free from: 
Personal Property 
U.S. General Services 
and 
Administration 
Surplus Personal 
Business Services Center 
Property Mailing 
(Use regional office 
List Application 
address from list below) 
BIDDING AIDS FOR DOD AND GSA SALES 
For vehicle sales look up the “blue book” 
value (typic- 
ally government vehicles are sold after 60,000 miles). 
If 
the vehicle sale is at a motor pool, mechanics who serviced 
the vehicles may know of problems. Some bidders bring 
a spark plug wrench and compression tester to the 
“motor starting” that often preceeds vehicle sales. 
Sealed bid sales are the most difficult for the inexper- 
ienced purchaser. 
If you save old sale catalogs for about 
the last six months you may find a clue from the success- 
ful bid for a similar item in a completed sale. 
If you have 
the old sale number and item number you can find the 
amount of the successful bid from DOD or GSA by phone 
or letter. Warning: on occasion the successful bid for a 
used item may be more than the current retail price for 
the same item new. Always check the acquisition cost, 
if given, in the sale catalog. Find the current price your 
local scrap yard will pay for various metals. 
This plus 
the weight, if given, and rough transportation costs can 
give you a rough idea of a minimum bid for things like 
stee/ pipe or stainless steel tables. 
It is really important 
to inspect items carefully, many DOD electrical items 
work on weird voltages and frequencies. 
OTHER GOVERNMENT SURPLUS 
The Post Office now handles sales of all surplus it 
obtained after becoming independent — contact your 
local postmaster for details. 
The Tennessee Valley 
Authority has a sales office, write them at: Chattanooga, 
TN 37401. Small craft and other maritime type property 
are sold by the Maritime Administration’s Eastern and 
Central Regional offices (the Western Region uses GSA) 
write to the Administrative Services Officer, Maritime 
Administration at: 26 Federal Plaza, New York, NY 
10007; and, International Trade Mart Blidg., No. 2 Canal 
Street, New Orleans, LA 70130. 
If you want to start 
your own navy with vessels over 1500 gross tons, con- 
tact: The Chief, Fleet Disposal Branch, Division of 
Reserve Fleet, Maritime Administration, Washington, 
D.C. 20230. 
The General Services Administration has charge of dispos- 
ing of a large variety of non-military stuff — office and lab 
equipment, tools, furniture, vehicles, vessels, and aircraft 
(including those seized from incompetent smugglers). 
Their most common method of sale is the sealed bid. 
With some vehicle sales GSA uses the spot bid method. 
For this type of sale written bids are collected for each 
item in the sale, and the winning bid is announced before 
you must submit your written bid for the next item in 
the sale. 
This can give you a guide if a number of almost 
identical vehicles are offered in the same spot bid sale. 
You will know the winning bid on the first item before 
you must submit your written bid on the second. On 
occasion GSA sells some items at auction. 
There is no single central office for GSA sale information. 
You must request that each regional office put your name 
on their sale announcement mailing list. COMMENT: 
Neither DOD nor GSA would seem to have much incen- 
tive to maximize revenue from surplus sales by making 
it easier for more people, including the inexperienced 
purchaser, to participate. While the expenses related to 
surplus sales come from their budgets, most revenues go 
directly back to the U.S. Treasury. 
Efforts to increase 
participation should only provide indirect general govern- 
ment benefit: increased general revenue and better public 
relations. 
The costs of such efforts are direct. 
| found it 
interesting that DOD nevertheless seems willing to make 
the effort to experiment with means for making partici- 
pation easier — e.g. with retail stores, by providing 
packing and shipping for a nominal charge on mailable 
items, and by full descriptions of sale items including 
estimated weight and acquisition cost. GSA has no 
retail stores, no mailing service, and some recent sale 
catalogs omit all mention of weight and cost. For 
example a recent GSA catalog describes the quantity of 
fasteners offered as“... a large lot...” (7DPS-80-35, 
item 89). 
The basis for GSA‘s approach is unclear. 
| attempted to 
discuss possible means of increasing participation and 
revenue with San Francisco GSA sales officials. 
| was 
only allowed to speak with the sales officials in the 
pied 
6 w 
616 
4, 
so 
6) 
60's 
(e860 
60 
6 0 8 
GSA OFFICE ADDRESSES 
Post Office and 
Courthouse 
Boston, MA 02109 
(CT, ME, MA, NH, 
Ri, VT) 
26 Federal Plaza 
New York, NY 10007 
(NJ, NY, PR, V1) 
819 Taylor Street 
Fort Worth, TX 76102 
(AR, LA, NM, OK, TX) 
Denver Federal Center 
Building 41 
Denver, CO 80225 
(CO, MT, ND, SD, 
UT, WY) 
7th & D Streets, S.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20407 
(DE, DC, MD, PA, VA, WV) 
525 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94105 
(AZ, CA, NV) 
75 Spring Street, S.W. 
Atlanta, GA 30303 
(AL, FL, GA, KY, MI, 
Federal Building 
300 Ala Moana Blvd. 
Honolulu, HI 96850 
NC, SC, TN) 
(H1) 
230 S. Dearborn Street 
GSA Center 
Chicago, |L 60604 
Auburn, WA 98002 
(IL, IN, Mil, MN, OH, WI) 
(1D, 
OR, WA) 
1500 E. Bannister Rd. 
P.O. Box 1632 
Kansas City, MO 64131 
(1A, KS, MO, NB) 
Anchorage, AK 99510 
(AK) 
©) 6, 6) 6 (e) 6) 1a) (6 0: elie 2 
a 06) ©) e) ©).0% 0: ©. 6&6 
Ce 
eye mele; ie 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
“Once an angry man dragged his father along the 
ground through his own orchard. ‘Stop’ cried the 
groaning old man at last. ‘Stop! I did 
not drag my father beyond this tree. >» 
—Gertrude Stein The Making of Americans 
