Marginal Act 
Talking with Mimi Farina, Lucie Alexander and Dan O'Neill 
Every community has massive institu tional walls around its prisons, convalescent 
homes, hospitals, mental institutions, etc. While many on the inside, patients, 
inmates, staff, are trying to reach out, very few on the outside try to reach in. 
(It’s too real in there for most people.) Working as a volunteer in the places is the 
most direct way in. Here’s another one. 
Since 1974 Bread and Roses has brought free entertainment to the institutions of 
Marin County (across the Golden Gate Bridge from San Francisco). Founder 
Mimi Farina is a singer (a little less well known than her sister Joan Baez, which 
is probably a nuisance for both of them) and top flight cu/tural inventor, as this 
interview should demonstrate. 
The interview was done in 1978 with Mimi, her 
co-founder Lucie Alexander, and an occasional grump from cartoonist Dan O Neil. 
One element of the conversation that print leaves out and that you may want to 
resupply is Mimi’s skill as 
a comedienne. 
She worked a year with the San 
Francisco improvisational comedy group, The Committee, and she talks like it. 
Her discourse is mostly imagined or remembered dialogue, all of it spoken in the 
various characters, including parody of herself, the sensitive, vulnerable, innocent 
idealistic singer. 
Bread and Roses largely funds itself from autumn to autumn with a sensational 
acoustic music festival in Berkeley, California, where some of the greatest names 
in the business donate their talent. 
If all this puffery sounds like I’m on the Bread 
and Roses Board or something, | am. 
| was honored to be invited shortly after 
this interview. 
We've done a detailed how-to booklet for this sort of service, available for the cost 
of handling. 
It covers funding and working with institutions, finding and working 
with ideal entertainers, and running an enjoyable office. Some of the why-to is 
in this interview. The rest is in your community. 
— 
Bread and Roses 
Handbook 
1979, 28 pp. 
$.50 postpaid from: 
Bread and Roses 
78 Throckmorton Ave. 
Mill Valley, CA 94941 
BREAD & ROSES PERFORMER GUIDELINES 
1. Promptness is very important for people confined in institutions. They are 
on regular schedules. 
In most circumstances, the patients or inmates become 
anxious and unhappy if the expected and anticipated entertainment is late. 
2. Communicating with the audience is as important as entertaining them. We 
encourage you to visit with the residents before or after a performance. However, 
please be aware that expressing personal beliefs and philosophies (religious, social, 
political, etc.) is inappropriate and perhaps alienating. The quality of your 
performance itself will express inherent 
beliefs and messages. 
3. Please don’t make promises or com- 
mitments to the inmates or patients that 
you don’t intend to keep; i.e., future 
visits or continued correspondence. 
4. Cleanliness and good health are most 
important, particularly when you are 
visiting a health care facility. Many 
residents have a very low resistance to 
disease. 
If you are not feeling well the 
day before a scheduled performance, 
call the office to rearrange your visit. 
The Jamie Miller Troupe bellydances 
at another Hillhaven Convalescent 
Home in San Rafael. 
Stewart Brand: What does Bread and 
Roses do? 
Mimi Farina: It takes 30 live shows per 
month into institutions in Marin County. 
What shows go where are determined by 
auditions. We see if the performer will be 
appropriate for the institutions and will 
feel comfortable in the setting that we 
take them to. Some people are afraid of 
hospitals and not afraid of juvenile hall, 
and you don’t know that until you ask. 
You might take a piano bar singer into 
an old folks’ home because she or he will 
know all the melodies that the older 
people know. 
Brand: Is sticking strictly in Marin County 
out of some principle? 
Farina: It’s out of the principle to stay 
small. One of the things that people in 
institutions lack most is a sense of trusting 
anybody — the guards, each other, the 
nurses, the administrators. So if there can 
be a sense of rapport and trust with one 
source on the outside, it’s better than 
having no trust atall. We want to establish 
a friendship amongst patients and the 
staff and ourselves, and going back repeat- 
edly is what establishes that friendship. 
First visit around maybe it went well and 
maybe they'll remember you, but if you 
never go back, so what? 
Brand: How muchare you going back now? 
Farina: Monthly. Generally. 
It’s something 
like 20 shows that we do definitely once 
a month and then the other 10 are off and 
on different places — experimenting with 
new ones, or some of the places close out, 
like when some of the Drug Rehabilitation 
Centers stopped being funded. 
Brand: What's the range of institutions? 
Farina: There are supposedly 300 institu- 
tions in Marin. Mostly convalescent 
homes, drug rehabilitation centers, psychi- 
atric day care centers, mental wards (some 
of them lock-up, some of them not), and 
then we also go to Napa Mental Hospital 
once a month. And there’s a new thing 
called Nutrition Sites. 
It’s where they 
feed old people lunch and/or dinner, with 
a bus that'll take them to the site. We've 
been entertaining there — those are more 
CINDY 
CHARLES 
Mimi Farina 
at Hillhaven 
Convalescent Home 
in Mill Valley, California: 
“What she was saying to me 
— she said it about ten times — 
was, ‘You know what I'm gonna 
do when | get my social security check? 
I’m gonna go out and get a nice tall cold 
glass of BEER!’”’ 
like parties than situations where the old 
folks are stuck in their chairs. What else? 
Lucie Alexander: Well, there’s juvenile 
hall, a couple of big prisons — San Quentin 
Vacaville. 
Is Vacaville in the county? 
Close enough. The Honor Farm. There 
are some children’s centers for retarded 
children or children with learning disabili- 
ties. Also the kids who've just been in or 
who are about to go into juvenile hall, kids 
who won't or can't do well in school 
because they just have too much energy 
and anger. 
Brand: Who are the artists you use? 
Farina: Right now we've worked with 400. 
Most of them are local people who don't 
have credibility in the industry — meaning 
that they don't have albums out or are not 
professional in the sense of being on the 
market. Some of them have been profes- 
sional entertainers in the past, like Ah 
Wing who is a Chinese comedian, used to 
entertain the troops, and now doesn't have 
a whole lot to do with his life — he’s 
60-some years old. Other people who are 
aspiring to be professional performers. 
Others who are teachers who give lessons, 
Piano lessons, voice lessons. And a lot of 
just San Francisco street musicians, perfor- 
mers, jugglers, tightrope walkers, and fire 
eaters and so on. 
Brand: For these artists there’s no remun- 
eration or expenses? 
Farina: No. My theory was... Bread and 
Roses was really formed asa 
result of my 
anger towards the industry and finding out 
that it was the third largest money-making 
business in the country. 
Brand: Which industry? 
Farina: Music. 
Brand: | didn’t know that. 
Farina: Yeah. 
I’ve got a lot of wealthy 
friends. 
I’m not so wealthy. Now when 
| look back | think it was an active non- 
violent approach to my resentment, to 
my anger, which | think was healthy and 
good, because | might never have played 
the guitar again or performed again. | 
really wanted to get famous people in the 
institutions to expose them to institutional 
life, because | felt that they had a platform 
which most musicians don’t use at all, 
And so it’s still an ambition of mine to 
use more famous artists, more people who 
have the ability to be heard by the public 
and might have more to say if they had 
experience with these institutions. Plenty 
of famous artists performed at our Bread 
and Roses Festival last fall, but it was a 
big party for alot of people to get together 
and have a good time. 
It was a public 
event so they’re sure of being in the news. 
If you go to an institution, nobody's ever 
liable to hear about it except those poor 
people who are falling out of their 
wheelchairs. 
Alexander: Unless it’s a famous prison like 
San Quentin or Soledad or Folsom, what's 
the point of going to a little old convales- 
cent home? 
Brand: What is the point? 
Farina: For us? Or for them? For me the 
