ens 
a 
“WHOLE SYSTEMS) 
50 WORLD CON 
Environmental Conservation 
Environmentally over-info’d out? I’d pretty much stopped 
reading. Just skimmed: field guides, “ecology” 
articles, 
and CQ review books. THEN Environmental Conservation: 
— The ease of History. 
The old-fashioned insistence that 
we try to remember what was and learn by it. Carl 
Sauer. Lewis Mumford. 
Edgar Anderson. Now Dasmann’‘s 
Fourth Edition of Environmental Conservation (the first 
was seventeen years ago - 1959). 
— The thorough, intimate prose. Every “idea” is not an 
“idea,” because it takes place in a habitat, in a town or 
desert, with humans trying but stumbling because their 
present desires have made them careless about manana. 
— The quiet passion. Never trying to say more than the 
“everyday” reality can hold. Simultaneously yearning 
for humans to change and to see and to gain loving 
guidance for the Planet. 
To save wood pulp and forests, | hereby erase all recent 
college textbooks except Dasmann‘s Environmental 
Conservation and its predecessor Man‘s Role in Changing 
the Face of the Earth (p. 47) and its pictorial cousin 
Man and the Earth’s Ecosystems (p. 48). 
A heavy trio: 
HUMANS, EARTH and TIME. 
—Peter Warshall 
Environmental 
Conservation 
Raymond F. Dasmann 
1959, 1976 
(4th edition); 436 pp. 
$12.50 postpaid from 
John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 
One Wiley Drive 
Somerset, NJ 08873 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Environmental Conservation Magazine 
If, as Peter Berg avers, there are two fundamental impulses 
at war in the world these days — “global uniformity” 
versus “planetary diversity’ — then this magazine qualifies 
as the single refereed journal most thoroughly in support 
of planetary diversity. Look at its subtitle (below). 
The 
contributors and stories cover the biosphere. And surpris- 
ingly, even when they are fairly technical, the articles are 
readily understandable, perhaps because so many people 
are politically active in these matters, perhaps because 
the science involved is human scale. 
—SB 
Best technical reviews in all areas of environmental 
conservation. Articles like effects of cement dust on 
growth and yield of olive trees; erosion rates and land- 
use history on an inland lake; marine parks needed and 
existing in Italy. International in scope. Better than 
all those others (Ambio, Ecologist, etc.) for me — since 
| like the nitty-gritty and don’t mind (too much) the 
scientific prose style. 
—Peter Warshall 
Environmental 
Conservation 
(The international Journal 
devoted to maintaining 
global viability through 
exposing and countering 
environmental deteriora- 
tion resulting from human 
population pressure and 
unwise technology) 
Nicholas Polunin, Editor 
$78.75 /year (4 issues) 
from: 
Environmental Conservation 
Elsevier Sequoia S.A. 
P.O. Box 851 
1001 Lausanne 1, 
Switzerland 
® 
Deep ocean trenches are increasingly being proposed as 
ideal dumping-sites for highly toxic chemical and radio- 
active wastes. The assumption seems to be that the 
deeper these poisonous substances go, the less harmful 
they are likely to be. Yet our knowledge about the sea- 
bed below 2,000 m, and of the deep ocean trenches which 
run like canyons across it, is at best sketchy. Mankind 
may destroy this environment even before he has 
explored it. 
Now the world’s most influential conservation body — 
the International Union for Conservation of Nature and 
Natural Resources (IUCN) — has called upon governments 
to stop all dumping in these trenches, stating that the 
world’s 22 ocean trenches constitute unique habitats, and 
that up to 60% of the life-forms in each separate trench 
are found nowhere else. 
SERV. 
ee 
Ys 
e 
If the list of wildlife species now extinct or threatened with 
extinction is examined, it will be found that a high percentage 
of these species are like the mountain caribou. They are 
wilderness animals, dependent on the maintenance of climax 
or near-climax habitat conditions. The now-rare fur bearers 
of the United States, the marten, wolverine, and fisher, 
appear to be among these forms. They are now scarce in 
most areas of their former range, despite almost complete 
Protection from hunting or trapping. 
. 
. 
. 
The species of wildlife that form the bulk of our huntable 
game populations and those which have become pests of 
farmlands, forest lands, and rangelands are the successional 
forms. They have been favored by our use, and misuse, of 
the land and have exercised their biotic potentials in 
expanding into newly created habitats left by fire, loggers, 
or excessive numbers of sheep and cattle. 
The Ecologist 
Edited by the ebullient Teddy Goldsmith, this British 
mag is a nice mix of careful and radical. 
It has a strong 
point of view, lots of good ideas, and considerable effect. 
—SB 
_ [Suggested by Paul Ehrlich] 
The Ecologist 
Nicholas Hildyard, 
Edward Goldsmith, 
Editors 
$28 /year (10 issues) 
from: 
The Ecologist 
73 Molesworth Street 
Wadebridge, Cornwall 
PL27 7DS 
United Kingdom 
e 
Will Deforestation Turn the Amazon into a Desert? 
We normally associate deserts with dry areas, yet Harry 
Knowles, a former FAO ecologist who has spent 22 years 
Ambio 
PEOPLE AND LAND: REGAINING THE BALANCE 
Around the ancient neolithic rock circle at Avebury, 
England, a diversified pattern of field and village has 
Persisted over centuries. 
One of the characteristics of the human animal is a wide 
range of environmental tolerance, the ability to continue to 
exist under conditions from which most species would flee. 
A few other species — rats, mice, starlings, pigeons — seem 
able to tolerate the conditions under which people live, 
and they accompany mankind around the world. 
Fleas, 
lice, and house flies also qualify. This human trait, however, 
seems to be one which would actually permit people to 
destroy the biosphere. 
in the Amazon region has predicted that: ‘If deforesta- 
tion continues at the present rate, the Brazilians could 
very well end up creating another Sahara.” But how could 
one of the wettest parts of the world become one of the 
driest? Surely the rich covering of vegetation must mean 
that the Amazon soils are very fertile and long lasting? 
Nothing could be further from the truth. Soils beneath 
tropical rain forests are generally very poor, and heavy 
rainfall of up to 4000 mm (157 inches) has long ago 
washed most of the plant nutrients from the topsoil. 
Contrary to what is found in temperate areas, the fertility 
of an area of tropical rain forest is stored in the vegeta- 
tion and not in the soil. Nutrients from dead organic 
matter are returned back to the vegetation as quickly as 
possible via the intermediaries of ants, termites and 
fungi, and if such a closed and rapid nutrient cycle was 
not in operation the nutrients would be leached down to 
the subsoil and as they would be lost to the surface plants 
so the overall fertility of the land would decrease. 
The region of Bragantina around the eastern Amazon 
city of Bragantina was settled just before the end of the 
nineteenth century by European and Brazilian farmers. 
Year after year the fertility dropped until by the 1940s 
only coarse grass would grow there. Now all that is left 
is a ghost landscape with large areas of bare soil and rock. 
Crops gave high yields initially but as more and more of 
the finite fertility of the land was taken away to feed 
people, the soil became exhausted and a desert 
was formed. 
Endangered Species, and WIN 
Authoritative and glossy. 
This Sweden-based magazine 
is the voice of establishment international environment- 
alism. When | was working a couple of years ago on an 
article about genotoxins — the flood of new chemicals 
that cause cancer and gene damage — Ambio was my 
most indispensable source of up-to-date information. 
—SB 
Ambio 
Jeannie Peterson, Editor 
$25 /year (6 issues) from: 
Pergamon Press 
Fairview Park 
Elmsford, NY 10523 
or: 
Pergamon Press 
Headington Hill Hall 
Oxford OX3 OBW 
United Kingdom 
or 
Ambio 
Royal Swedish Academy 
of Sciences 
Box 50005 
S-104 05 
Stockholm, Sweden 
We are at a point where Vigilance may be lost. The 
Furbish Lousewort and the Snail Darter seem so irrele- 
vant to most humans that laws (desperately needed to 
preserve the gene pool of Earth) are being diluted. Saving 
cutesy baby seals and intelligent dolphins seems easy. 
But, the mysterious and unknown fish of the Little 
Tennessee called the Snail Darter... who cares? 
Two bulletins are keeping the vigil. The Endangered 
Species Technical Bulletin /s published monthly by U.S. 
Fish and Wildlife Service, Dept. of Interior, Washington, 
D.C. 20240. 
It is available free to those organizations and 
individuals who show a direct involvement in the endan- 
gered species program. 
You must send a summary that 
clearly demonstrates need. 
It’s a great stimulus to 
unceasing awareness. 
The action equivalent is WIN ($7/year to cover costs) 
from the Sierra Club Wildlife Involvement News, 800 
Second Ave., New York, NY 10017. Wildlife ecology, 
political action, debates (should the California Condor 
be bred in captivity?) and news (the Red Wolf is 
currently the most endangered mammal in North 
America). Needs support. Does good work. 
—Peter Warshall 
[Suggested by Dean Lyon] 
