hall pots full of rice and curries, with fresh banana 
leaves tied on for tops, are carried from each 
household. Come noon, you leave your tool and 
converge there with the others for a cooperative 
meal and the traditional Sarvodaya “family 
gathering.” You can sit then on a straw mat as 
the hottest part of the day slips by, sharing the 
curry a neighbor cooked and the songs and 
prayers and talks which follow. 
Then it is back to work to see if we all can finish 
the section of road as far as the paddy field before 
we quit until next week’s or next month’s Sunday 
shramadana. As you collaborate to lever up some 
roots, you may find yourself in a team with some- 
one you hardly know. He may be from the other 
side of the village and from a caste different from 
yours. But you work together now, learning to 
know and trust each other’s strength; and, as you 
heard done in the “family gathering” and as you 
were urged there to do, you call him malli, brother. 
Shramadana campaigns proved so effective in 
organizing villagers, that in the mid-60s the govern- 
ment started conducting some of 
its own. It even 
briefly formed an office of National Shramadana 
Service. To ensure that people showed up to 
work and to keep them at it, material rewards 
were sometimes offered, in cash or kind — perhaps 
a ration of rice or some powdered milk. Accord- 
ing to Sarvodayans they were not very successful. 
Those camps, they say, lacked both discipline and 
laughter; people did not sing together or call each 
other brother and sister; they did not choose the 
project themselves or take charge of their own 
work. When the project is one the villagers want 
—and know they want, having chosen it, additional 
rewards can be unnecessary and even counterpro- 
ductive. The two-mile road that will connect the 
village of Jambureliya to the Colombo road means 
an hour’s less walk to buses and schools, two hours 
less wait when a doctor must be fetched. That 
meaning can be present in each shovel-load of dirt 
— along with pride in the doing of it and gratitude 
for each other. 
Last Sunday’s shramadana in the hill town of 
Avissawella was one of a series to clean and 
beautify the grounds of the district hospital. A 
committee of long-term patients had asked local 
Sarvodayans to help them organize an action, get 
the trash picked up and construct a lotus pond by 
the front entrance. Unlike cutting a road or dig- 
ging a canal, this had no economic merit; no one’s 
livelihood or convenience would be benefited — 
yet the spirit was the same. The long line I joined 
to pass down the pans of dirt excavated for the 
pond was hot, sweaty, and high-spirited. Ten- and 
twelve-year-olds, including a little girl on my left 
in a lacy pink party dress, kept up the pace and 
younger children raced the empty pans back to 
the diggers. Young bucks in stylish Sunday bell- 
bottoms or more sensible in sarongs, showed off 
a bit, tossing and twirling the pans to each other, 
while saried ladies in their sixties joined the 
brigade for shorter spells. So did patients from 
the hospital and nurses in starched white saris, 
neither group showing concern for the fresh red 
soil that would spill on them. To my right I slung 
the dirt to a public official from the Ministry of 
Health. Discovering my interest in Buddhist 
philosophy, he engaged me in a disjointed dis- 
cussion of the no-self doctrine. “Ah, see,” he 
said, half joking, “with every load of dirt, I wear 
away the illusion of ego.”’ He was also a little 
annoyed that Sunday visitors to the hospital 
would watch us without joining in. For me, how- 
ever, still relatively fresh to shramadana, it was 
wonder enough that we were doing it. 
Veteran Sarvodaya organizers say that it is some- 
times questionable whether the actual work 
accomplished in a camp is worth the amount of 
time, effort and frequent subsidiary costs which 
are required to set it up. What is considered defi- 
nitely worth the price, however, are the other 
results of shramadana. These are manifold and 
nonmaterial. They are reflected in the Sarvodayan 
saying, “We build the road and the road builds 
us.” If the villagers now have a road where there 
was no road before, they have also that which the 
road built — a new sense of unity across the caste, 
class and political barriers that so frequently frac- 
ture village life. A widow of forty with three 
children, having moved here to Markandana two 
years back, had decided to leave and seek elsewhere 
to settle. Now, after the village’s first shramadana, 
she and her family choose to stay. They have 
friends now, she tells me, and it is a better place 
to be. After shramadana in the village of Galapi- 
temadama, the young people now draw lots each 
week to select the house where they will work 
together — fixing the well or repairing the roof. 
The road, then, also builds a new sense of power 
and possibility. This is evident in the local Sarvo- 
daya haulas or committees that often constellate 
in the course of the first shramadana or two — 
youth committees, elders’ committees, or 
committees of mothers to start a preschool or 
community kitchen. The collective action com- 
bined with the fresh respect it breeds for manual 
labor can generate a personal commitment to the 
development of the village that no government 
programs or foreign aid projects appear able to 
duplicate. Public reforestation schemes, for 
example, often founder because villagers neglect 
the seedlings, let goats and cattle eat them. But 
when undertaken as shramadana, with the sense of 
ownership and responsibility that brings, the plants 
are watered and protected. 
With the experience that the Sarvodaya movement 
has accrued with more than three thousand shra- 
madana camps, and well over a half million par- 
ticipants, certain methods have evolved as most 
effective for long-term results. Here is how — if 
you are a Sarvodayan in Sri Lanka — you organize 
a shramadana. 
1 Go to a village and start making a survey of its 
needs. Go from house to house and then get 
folks together, say in the temple or in the 
school, to talk about what they want. Talk 
till agreement is reached on the choice of an 
initial project. 
2 Contact district government officials to see if 
they can provide needed material — tools, 
ir 
or eee 
Making a rural playground. 
seeds, truck. They are usually not hard to 
persuade when you have a lot of free labor 
to offer. 
3 If cement, bricks, elephant, or right-of-way 
over a piece of 
land are needed, get the wealthier 
parties in the village to offer them. In the 
course of the meetings, to their own surprise 
and out of competition or desire for good will, 
they often will. 
4 Be sure to involve the local priest. Usually 
to bless so generous an effort, his presence 
both legitimates and inspires. 
5 Meanwhile a local family or two will be taking 
the lead in organizing the day’s collective meal. 
A mass potluck is always fun and sometimes 
the start of a 
community kitchen, which can 
make a real difference in awareness of 
nutrition needs. 
6 See which city folk and foreign visitors to 
Sarvodaya headquarters want to join the 
shramadana. They often enjoy this contact 
with village life and in the eyes of the locals 
their presence — and their actual physical 
labor — adds lustre to the occasion. 
7 When the day comes, start early while it is 
cool; this also saves time for the midday and 
evening “family gatherings.” Begin with a 
brief meeting for meditation and chant. It 
helps collect the energy that will be given 
this day. 
8 At the family gatherings, as folks relax, speak 
about the meaning of 
dana, the power of the 
free gift, the merit of generosity. Remind 
people they can remake their world out of their 
own caring and power. Recall for them the 
glories of the past when Sri Lanka was Dan- 
yagara and Dhammaadvipa, granary of wealth 
and island of righteousness. These can be 
restored when they work as brother and sister; 
as you have from the start, you continue, of 
course, to address them in these terms and 
treat them in this fashion. 
9 Remember to provide in these gatherings both 
space and encouragement for the participation 
of the villagers. They enjoy this opportunity to 
perform for their neighbors in song or dance, 
which, of course, is great for community spirit; 
and the experience of giving an impromptu talk 
on their perception of village needs raises their 
awareness of their own leadership capacities. 
10 When it is all over, stay in close touch — for 
shramadana is often just beginning. 
It is just the beginning because people have tasted 
what they can do together — and there is no limit 
to that. As a visitor from a far-away land I tasted 
it too. It stirred in me old memories of my grand- 
parents telling about husking bees and barn-raisings, 
stirred also recent memories of the potlucks and 
collective gardens we started in upstate New York. 
In America, too, there was shramadana and there 
also now the sanity of the past is being reappro- 
priated. Not having seen it, though, on a scale 
like this, I find myself wondering if we could not 
move more systematically and full-tilt into the 
giving of human energy. There is healing, hope 
and deep community in such sharing, perhaps 
because, in the last analysis, that is what we are 
— pure energy. 
= 
eee 
ee wee eee 
eee 
eee eee eee 
nee eee ene 
: THE RISING S 
: EGE OR ROOD NEWSLETTER 
sce 
“T used to hate to go to parties but if she was 
there when you got there it was a good party. 
She does things for reasons so real you can’t 
understand them.” 
—Stewart about Margo St. James 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
5 
