ae ae 
inh 
a i 
374 POLITICS 
THE 
by Ron Jones 
What follows is a true story. 
It took place at Cubberly High School, Palo Alto, 
California, on five days in April, 
1969 — 
the height of “do your own thing.” 
—SB 
For years I kept a strange secret. I shared this silence 
with two hundred students. Yesterday I ran into one 
of those students. For a brief moment it all rushed 
back. 
Steve Coniglo had been a sophomore student in my 
World History class. We ran into each other quite by 
accident. It’s one of those occasions experienced by 
teachers when they least expect. You’re walking down 
the street, eating at a secluded restaurant, or buying 
some underwear when all of a sudden an ex-student 
pops up to say hello. In this case it was Steve running 
down the street shouting, “Mr. Jones, Mr. Jones.”” In 
an embarrassed hug we greet. I had to stop fora 
minute to remember. Who is this young man hugging 
me? He calls me Mr. Jones. Must be a former student. 
What’s his name? In the split second of my race back 
in time Steve sensed my questioning and backed up. 
Then smiled, and slowly raised a hand in a cupped 
position. My God. He’s a member of the Third Wave. 
It’s Steve, Steve Coniglo. He sat in the second row. 
He was a sensitive and bright student. Played guitar 
and enjoyed drama. 
We just stood there exchanging smiles when without 
a conscious command I raised my hand in curved 
position. The salute was given. Two comrades had 
met long after the war. The Third Wave was still alive. 
“Mr. Jones do you remember the Third Wave?” I sure 
do, it was one of the most frightening events I ever ex- 
perienced in the classroom. It was also the genesis of 
a secret that I and two hundred students would sadly 
share for the rest of our lives. 
We talked and laughed about the Third Wave for the 
next few hours. Then it was time to part. It’s strange, 
you meet a past student in these chance ways. You 
catch a few moments of your life. Hold them tight. 
Then say goodbye. Not knowing when and if you’d 
ever see each other again. Oh, you make promises to 
call each other but it won’t happen. Steve will con- 
tinue to grow and change. I will remain an ageless 
benchmark in his life. A presence that will not change. 
Iam Mr. Jones. Steve turns and gives a quiet salute. 
Hand raised upward in a shape of a curling wave. Hand 
curved in a similar fashion I return the gesture. 
The Third Wave. Well at last it can be talked about. 
Here I’ve met a student and we’ve talked for hours 
about this nightmare. The secret must finally be 
“TOM PARKER. 
waning. It’s taken three years. I can tell you and 
anyone else about the Third Wave. It’s now just a 
dream, something to remember, no it’s something we 
tried to forget. That’s how it all started. By strange 
coincidence I think it was Steve who started the Third 
Wave with a question. 
We were studying Nazi Germany and in the middle of 
a lecture I was interrupted by the question. How 
could the German populace claim ignorance of the 
slaughter of the Jewish people. How could the towns- 
people, railroad conductors, teachers, doctors, claim 
they knew nothing about concentration camps and 
human carnage. How can people who were neighbors 
and maybe even friends of the Jewish citizen say they 
weren’t there when it happened. It was a good ques- 
tion. I didn’t know the answer. 
In as much as there were several months still to go in 
the school year and I was already at World War II, I 
decided to take a week and explore the question. 
STRENGTH THROUGH DISCIPLINE 
=~ 
N MONDAY, | introduced 
my sophomore history students to one of the experi- 
ences that characterized Nazi Germany. Discipline. 
I lectured about the beauty of discipline. How an 
athlete feels having worked hard and regularly to be 
successful at a sport. How a ballet dancer or painter 
works hard to perfect a movement. The dedicated 
patience of a scientist in pursuit of 
an idea. It’s disci- 
pline. That self training. Control. The power of the 
will. The exchange of physical hardships for superior 
mental and physical faculties. The ultimate triumph. 
To experience the power of discipline, I invited, no 
I commanded the class to exercise and use a new seat- 
ing posture. I described how proper sitting posture 
assists concentration and strengthens the will. In fact 
instructed the class in a mandatory sitting posture. 
This posture started with feet flat on the floor, hands 
placed flat across the small of the back to force a 
straight alignment of the spine. “There, can’t you 
breathe more easily? You’re more alert. Don’t you 
feel better?” 
We practiced this new attention position over and 
over. I walked up and down the aisles of seated stu- 
dents pointing out small flaws, making improvements. 
Proper seating became the most important aspect of 
learning. I would dismiss the class, allowing them to 
leave their desks, and then call them abruptly back to 
an attention sitting position. In speed drills the class 
learned to move from standing position to attention 
sitting in fifteen seconds. In focus drills I concen- 
trated attention on the feet being parallel and flat, 
ankles locked, knees bent at ninety degree angles, 
hands flat and crossed against the back, spine straight, 
chin down, head forward. We did noise drills in which 
talking was allowed only to be shown as a distraction. 
Following minutes of progressive drill assignments the 
class could move from standing positions outside the 
room to attention sitting positions at their desks with- 
out making a sound. The manuever took five seconds. 
It was strange how quickly the students took to this 
uniform code of behavior. I began to wonder just 
how far they could be pushed. Was this display of 
obedience a momentary game we were all playing, or 
was it something else? Was the desire for discipline 
and uniformity a natural need? A societal instinct 
we hide within our franchise restaurants and T.V. 
programming? 
I decided to push the tolerance of the class for regi- 
mented action. In the final twenty-five minutes of 
the class J introduced some new rules. Students must 
be sitting in class at the attention position before the 
late bell; all students must carry pencils and paper for 
note taking; when asking or answering questions a 
student must stand at the side of their desk; the first 
word given in answering or asking a question is “Mr. 
Jones.” We practiced a short “silent reading” session. 
Students who responded in a sluggish manner were 
reprimanded and in every case made to repeat their 
behavior until it was a model of punctuality and 
respect. The intensity of the response became more 
important than the content. To accentuate this, I 
requested answers to be given in three words or less. 
Students were rewarded for making an effort at an- 
swering or asking questions. They were also acknow- 
ledged for doing this in a crisp and attentive manner. 
Soon everyone in the class began popping up with 
answers. and questions. The involvement level in the 
class moved from the few who always dominated 
discussions to the entire class. Even stranger was 
the gradual improvement in the quality of answers. 
Everyone seemed to be listening more intently. New 
people were speaking. Answers started to stretch out 
as students usually hesitant to speak found support 
for their effort. 
As for my part in this exercise, I had nothing but 
questions. Why hadn’t I thought of this technique 
before? Students seemed intent on the assignment 
and displayed accurate recitation of facts and con- 
cepts. They even seemed to’be asking better ques- 
tions and treating each other with more compassion. 
How could this be? Here I was enacting an authori- 
tarian learning environment and it seemed very pro- 
ductive. I now began to ponder not just how far this 
class could be pushed but how much I would change 
my basic beliefs toward an open classroom and self 
directed learning. Was all my belief in Carl Rogers to 
shrivel and die? Where was this experiment leading? 
STRENGTH THROUGH COMMUNITY 
) 
N TUESDAY, the second 
day of the exercise, I entered the classroom to find 
everyone sitting in silence at the attention position. 
Some of their faces were relaxed with smiles that 
come from pleasing the teacher. But most of the 
students looked straight ahead in earnest concentra- 
tion. Neck muscles rigid. No sign of a smile or a 
thought or even a question. Every fibre strained to 
perform the deed. To release the tension I went to 
the chalk board and wrote in big letters “STRENGTH 
THROUGH DISCIPLINE.” Below this I wrote a 
second law ‘STRENGTH THROUGH COMMUNITY.” 
