The Small Towns Book 
Two city people who have gone back to the town advise 
others like themselves on how not to destroy what they 
came to take part in. Case studies of six small towns in 
danger of being loved to death by bureaucrats, tourists, 
or urban exiles. 
There’s enough detail that it might help 
you in your fights and enough good general ideas that it 
might change your mind about what to fight for. 
—Anne Herbert 
The Small Towns Book 
(Show me the way 
to go home) 
James and Carolyn 
Robertson 
1978; 208 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid from: 
Doubleday and Company 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
AN OPEN LETTER TO VISITORS 
First be assured that it is not you, personally, we are 
questioning. Person-to-person, had we a quiet context, 
we would probably become friends; certainly not enemies. 
Our problem is that the flood of tourists recently has 
Passed beyond what a small town can handle and still 
function as a community. Noise of automobiles drowns 
Out sounds of the ocean, even late at night. We now 
smell exhaust instead of salt air. Streets are littered. 
Townspeople cannot find places to park. Many young, 
creative people have had their rents increased and must 
now move. Taxes are rising and many oldtimers now 
must sell. The quiet, creative ambience of the town is 
dissolving, replaced by a growing number of antique 
stores and other tourist-oriented businesses. 
We realize growth is inevitable; most of us moved here 
realizing M — had an active tourist industry already. We 
accept that visitors have a legal right to come here and 
that property owners have a legal right to develop their 
land as they see fit. 
But we also profoundly cherish the fact that M — isa 
living community; this is our home; families live here. 
This is still a creative center where artists, poets, actors 
and students come to live and work and experiment. 
We do not mind a reasonable number of visitors, especi- 
ally visitors who will pause long enough to get to know 
the town, the people — will trouble themselves to fee/ 
the real M — beneath the commercial veneer. We mind 
the innundation of the town by hordes flashing through 
fora few minutes or hours. We mind the rapid and sudden 
investment in M — as commercial-enterprise, especially by 
those who live elsewhere. 
So we urge you to come here infrequently, sensitive to 
the fact that you are entering a fragile community of real 
people. 
If you do come back, we urge you to consider 
staying for more than a night or two — long enough to 
realize that basic functions of communities are deep and 
personal 
. 
. 
. and that window dressing is not the real 
product. Look for the authentic work of /oca/ people. 
Question what you buy, whether it is locally made, or 
just shipped here for the tourist industry. 
Please do not encourage others to come here. Present 
facilities — and basic services — are overloaded. We do 
not want more facilities to further destroy the fragile 
fabric of community that still exists here. Consider — 
and we say this respectfully — your own backyard. 
If 
you spent the time and energy there that you are spend- 
ing here, wouldn't you, your family, your neighborhood, 
and the planet, be better off? Then, perhaps we could 
someday visit you and have something to gain from it. 
Community in America is getting to be a lost art. Com- 
mercial, phoney tourist traps are increasingly prevalent. 
Help us protect, maintain, and develop the former. 
—The M—SCAT Committee 
(Sensible Citizens Against Tourism) 
Small Town 
A little magazine bound to be useful to any community 
large enough to have a town hall. 
It’s about character, 
controlled growth, and planning. 
Small Town 
Clayton Denman and 
Ann Smith Denman, 
Editors 
$25 /vear (6 issues) 
from: 
Small Towns Institute 
P.O. Box 517 
Ellenburg, WA 98926 
e 
The planning environ- 
ment of small towns 
as distinguished from 
cities usually involves: 
1. Asmall circle of decision makers who can be easily 
reached if not easily persuaded; 
2. Aslower tempo of development pressure; 
3. A greater proportional impact of major development 
if it occurs; 
4. Fewer resources (staff, libraries, research capabilities, 
and consultants) to cope with major planning prob- 
lems when they arise; 
5. Less reliance on government and more of a /aissez 
faire attitude by citizens and their representatives; 
6. Less power of organized environmental and con- 
sumer groups (which often are closely affiliated with 
public planners). 
Sa-So catalog 
Town equipment. Signs, trash cans, paint, flags, office 
supplies, auditorium stuff, playground stuff, radios, 
searchlights, badges, handcuffs, guns, prison stuff, 
uniforms, stretchers, fire equipment. Fascinating catalog. 
See excerpts and access on p. 149. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Sam Halstead, 
former Mayor of Portola Valley] 
Turkey Drop 
Last Saturday the Junior Chamber of Commerce 
in the small town nearest us held a Farmer’s 
Appreciation Day to let us know how much they 
love us. Their love is matched only by that of 
politicians in an election year. They have a free 
dinner and all the store clerks dress up in funny 
clothes. The merchants drag out the seconds and 
imperfect goods, jack up the price thirty-five 
percent, put up ared bargain sign, and we lap it up. 
This year as an added fillip they decreed a turkey 
drop. This was a gimmick thought up in the late 
forties where they took a hundred ping pong balls, 
put special marks on six, and dropped them over a 
town. The finders of the six specially marked balls 
got turkeys. The Junior Chamber had heard of the 
turkey drop, but not about the ping pong balls. 
The advertising said Catch Your Easter Turkey. 
Alas, this was not to be. 
Turkeys don’t fly very well, and never more than a 
few feet off the ground. So when the earnest 
young men pushed six of them out of a light 
plane 3000 feet above main street, the birds knew 
they they were doomed. They accepted their 
fate with great dignity. They folded their wings 
and dropped straight down on to the crowd below 
by Terrence Williams 
‘like six huge black rocks. One hit the roof of the 
bank where it will doubtless remain until the 
directors can see a way to profit by its removal. 
The rest hit the pavement with enormous splats at 
intervals along the full length of the street. For- 
tunately no one was hit because being hit by a 
forty pound tom at terminal velocity would be 
fatal to man and bird. As it was, it was abundantly 
fatal to bird. 
One tight skinned matron was standing a few feet 
from the second to strike, and her south-west 
exposure was instantly and generously covered 
with blood and fowl guts and two fronds of entrails 
festooned her hat. She was able to contain her 
glee better than I. 
In fact I thought the day a complete success. The 
town cats and I have suggested that next year 
the Junior Chamber provide us farmers with an 
Easter dinner of ham. After all, hogs fly about as 
well as turkeys. 
® 
The author may be found at Williams Farms, Gettysburg, 
South Dakota, founded 1884. His account, unlike some 
animal stories, is true. 
—SB 
act 
cticiialieitaile 
<a) 
6 
is 
sles 
6 
€ 
els 
6) 
bee 
'9 
@ 6 
6) 
'9 
6 
60°) 
0.6 
0 65 
¢. 
9 0 @ 0 @ 
G10: 
6. 
06 
618 
8 5 8 0 6e 
6 
The Country of the Pointed Firs 
One of the reasons that | keep reading the humanist 
journal Manas (p. 516) is that nearly every week it has 
some good old book to recommend. As a rule, good old 
books are better than good new ones. Also there’s more 
of them. Why are they so seldom reviewed? 
Anyway here’s one. 
Written by a New England woman 
mostly about New England women, it contains in its 
stories more of the craft of lucid writing and of honorable 
living than any 
other fiction I’ve seen. Willa Cather remarks 
in the preface, “If | were to name the three American 
books which have the possibility of a long, long life, 1 
would say at once The Scarlet Letter, Huckleberry Finn, 
and The Country of the Pointed Firs. 
/ can think of no 
others that confront time and change so serenely.” 
The stories are set in Maine seacoast towns early in this 
century. 
You can smell them and hear the voices. 
The 
lives make /arge distinct patterns, turning on single events 
and lifelong strengths. 
These are old virtues. 
Their joys 
are slow and deep and far from simple. Here in California 
/ miss them like thunderstorms. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Sally Brooke] 
The Country of 
the Pointed Firs 
(And Other Stories) 
Sarah Orne Jewett 
1896, 1956; 320 pp. 
$2.95 Postpaid from: 
Doubleday and Company 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
“| wish | had known her; Mrs. Todd told me about your 
wife one day,” | said. 
“You'd have liked to come and see her; all the folks did,” 
said poor Elijah. ‘‘She'd been so pleased to hear everything 
and see somebody new that took such an int’rest. She had 
a kind o' gift to make it pleasant for folks. 
| guess likely 
Almiry Todd told you she was a pretty woman, especially 
in her young days; late years, too, she kep’ her looks and 
come to be so pleasant lookin’. There, ‘t ain't so much mat- 
ter, | shall be done afore a great while. 
No; | sha’n’t trouble 
the fish a great sight more.” 
The old widower sat with his head bowed over his knit- 
ting, as if he were hastily shortening the very thread of time. 
The minutes went slowly by. He stopped his work and 
clasped his hands firmly together. 
| saw he had forgotten 
his guest, and | kept the afternoon watch with him. At 
last he looked up as if but 
a moment had passed of his 
continual loneliness. 
“Yes, ma‘am, I’m one that has 
seen trouble,” he said, and 
began to knit again. 
LUFKIN 
CITY LIMIT 
POP. 15135 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
Sau 
At the Food Company I was reading this picture 
book about logging called Big Timber/Big Men 
and the waitress, Debra, opened it up to a picture 
of a 1909 logging crew and said, “That looks just 
like my old boyfriend’s crew. He’s a smoke- 
jumper, parachutes into forest fires to put them 
out. Boy, the people who do that really know 
how to party, and there’s never any bullshit either. 
They tell you exactly what they think because 
they just don’t care.” I asked her some questions 
and she said, ‘He was gone about 4 months a year 
and came back with money in 5 figures, I couldn’t 
say exactly how much. Of course, they couldn’t 
get insurance. A lot of the planes are real old, 
World War II, and they don’t fix them up, so 
there are always crashes. Of course, the jumpers 
have their chutes, but they lose a lot of pilots 
that way. Sometimes when they go down even 
on regular jumps they have to stay in the wilder- 
ness for weeks till they find a place to be picked 
up so they need really good survival skills. Look 
at the pants in that picture — those are just like 
my boyfriend’s. Pants like that are like iron — 
they’ll last forever. You don’t see anything like 
that on men around here. Men around here are 
dressed better than you or me or anyone we know.” 
Next time I went in the Food Company she didn’t 
work there anymore. 
: 
