Domestic Rabbit Production 
Commercial Rabbit Raising 
Rabbits are an ideal source of meat for urban dwellers — 
they mature rapidly, take up little space, and make no 
noise to bother neighbors. 
This book will provide answers 
for a person with 4 or 400 rabbits. 
—Richard Nilsen 
This is a good cheap booklet. 
It covers all the basics like 
how to select a breed, feed and manage the herd etc. 
} 
Press 
It also tells how to use the manure (as if you didn’t know) 
ea 
and cure rabbit skins. 
—Martin K. Rorapaugh 
nll 
. 
z 
e 
Commercial 
= 
Earthworms in the Rabbitry 
Rabbit Raising 
~- 
; 
Agriculture Handbook 
m 
. 
. 
Where earthworms are active throughout the year as in 
( 
+! 
Domestic Rabbit 
warm climates, they may be used to advantage under 
ne ae d 
= 
Production 
rabbit hutches to save labor in removing fertilizer. Make 
-B: 
Casady 
et al. 
- 
F 
#001 -000-01376-9 
George S. Lapeer 
bins for confining the worms the same length and width 
1966. 1971: 69 
1955, 1968; 
213 pp. 
as the hutch and 1 foot deep. Place bins on the ground, 
' 
OsiP 
Ds 
~" 
not on solid floors, and keep the fertilizer moist to insure 
$1 .60 postpaid from: 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
the worms working throughout the bin. 
Superintendent 
11-pound doe and her annual production of four litters, 
totaling 120 pounds, over 1000 percent of her live weight 
Rambling Rabbit Rap 
by Gurney Norman 
I spent most of this past summer with a farmer 
friend of mine who raises rabbits as a main source 
of table meat for his family. Six does and a buck 
kept in hutches at the edge of the garden provide 
r 
regular meat for his family of four. Other than 
the heavy work of removing the manure as it 
: 
accumulates, the rabbits are in the care of my 
} 
friend’s twelve-year-old daughter, who feeds and 
waters them as part of her daily chores. Her father 
does the slaughtering as the young rabbits mature. 
The meat is kept in the freezer, and eaten at the 
rate of about one, sometimes two, a week. 
| 
I'd tasted wild rabbit before, but I didn’t remember 
much about it, except that the occasion was loaded 
with an atmosphere of muted guilt, or at least an 
uncomfortable degree of self-consciousness. I was 
a kid at the time and I don’t remember who the 
adults were, cooking and serving the meat. But I 
do remember the almost compulsive talk that went 
on among them about how wild rabbits were some- 
times dangerous to eat, about how we probably 
ought not be eating this one, but let’s just take a 
bit of him anyway, and see. I took my bite, but 
what I tasted was the general misgivings about the 
whole thing. And those misgivings stayed in my 
head for 25 years, until this very summer when we 
were eating rabbit as a regular staple. 
ane re 
ie 
And it was great! 
It was at least as good as fried 
chicken, and maybe even a little better, depending 
on whose chicken you’ve been eating. My friend 
said that as far as the work of meat-production is 
concerned, rabbits are far less trouble to keep than 
chickens. He keeps chickens, but mainly for the 
eggs. (He raises beef and pork too, as well as a 
fantastic organic garden, all on twelve rather hilly 
acres. Working together, he and his wife and their 
The Interstate Printers 
and Publishers, Inc. 
19-27 North Jackson St. 
Danville, |L 61832 
Earthworms convert the rabbit droppings into casts — 
a convenient form of fertilizer for use with flowers, lawns, 
shrubs, trees, and other foliage. 
If you keep a large popu- 
lation of worms, there will be no objectionable odor. 
of Documents 
U.S. Government 
Printing Office 
Washington, DC 20402 
Very few flies will breed in the bins. 
It is necessary to 
remove the manure only at 5- to 6-month intervals. 
two children come as close as anyone I know to 
total organic self-sufficiency.) 
We talked some about the question of animal 
slaughter, of killing other creatures to feed on 
them. He said that in the beginning he had some 
trouble killing his rabbits, but that he finally over- 
came it when he quit thinking of them as “‘bunnies” 
and looked upon them as simply a source of 
protein. That attitude will no doubt trouble the 
more committed vegetarians; but not many farmers 
putting in 10 and 12 hours work a day are vegetar- 
ians. If a rabbit is a fellow being, so is a corn 
stalk. Creatures eat creatures. Some day worms 
will eat us all, and whatever debt we may owe the 
carbon-nitrogen cycle will no doubt then be paid 
in full. 
So went our dialogue. Or one chapter of it, any- 
way. One of the great things about the summer on 
the farm was the kind of running conversation we 
had, picking up hours and even days later where 
the talk left off before. Farmers certainly work a 
good deal more than they talk, but when they do 
talk, it’s grand to listen in. The language of men 
working together in a field is a rare and special 
thing. Men who work together, summer after 
summer, for years, have 
a common body of lore, a 
mutual frame of reference that underlies every- 
thing they say. When it’s best is when the words 
begin from a concrete subject, rise into a grand 
abstraction, convolute a time or two then return 
to earth again. Our talk about rabbits was like 
that. We talked about them as “‘bunnies,” against 
rabbits as food to eat. That got us into talk about 
the esoteric loveliness of a wagon wheel as a thing 
you paint and display in your front yard, against 
the loveliness of a wheel on an actual wagon that’s 
helping you do the work necessary to your liveli- 
hood. Then we got into the difference between 
vocation and avocation, of the unhappiness that 
comes when a person’s play is too far removed 
from his work. Raising rabbits is play, it’s fun, a 
hobby. But it can also be work, good, productive 
work of the kind that contributes to health and 
vigor by getting good home-grown food on the table. 
And so we got into the organic life as an ideal, a 
life in which opposites like ‘‘work” and “play” are 
reconciled, When your life is one of daily, personal 
“creation,” of work that satisfies like play does, 
youre less in need of purchased, artificial re-creation. 
The average industrial worker does a job he hates 
in order to buy the things he loves, like food, and 
entertainment. His vocation is one thing, his 
avocation another, and never the twain shall meet. 
This split ultimately leads to the deadly division 
between city and country. And in thesame way 
the modern vocation, or industrial job, is deadly 
to the individual worker’s creative spirit, the city 
has become the deadly enemy of the countryside. 
To satisfy the appetites of the city, the country- 
side is pillaged by industrial, mechanized farms 
for food and strip mines for fuel for electric 
power. How neurotic, how divided our culture 
against itself! 
And thus we came to the question, can the lowly 
rabbit possibly come to the rescue? We decided it 
could. Rabbits can be raised in any back yard, as 
food, primarily; but they can also be raised as a 
metaphor of a new and simultaneously old possi- 
bility, the possibility of cottage economy. They 
can be raised as a metaphor of opposites reconciled, 
of cultural schizophrenia overcome. They can 
stand as an image of country stuff happening in 
town, of town style stretched to embrace country 
substance, of work become play and play become 
work, which, after all, is not far from Adam and 
Eve’s set-up in the Original Garden. 
I don’t plan 
to hold my breath till the Golden Age arrives. But 
I do plan to raise some rabbits in my suburban 
backyard this year, and to eat the little morsels 
one by one when they are grown. 
® 
Raising Milk Goats the Modern Way 
(st 
ee ee ee 
eee 
Belanger’s book is a good jumping off point for the first- 
time goat owner. Goats are to homesteads what cows are 
to dairies. And the taste of goat’s milk is purely a matter 
of conditioning — children raised on goat’s milk will think 
j 
cow’s milk tastes funny the first time they try it. 
; 
—Richard Nilsen 
Goats can be trained to pull small carts 
— to the delight of 
youngsters or to the relief of homesteaders who want to 
move compost and other materials. Almost any book on 
dog training can be used to train goats. 
Dairy Goats 
infants and invalids. 
Raising Milk Goats 
The Modern Way 
Jerry Belanger 
1975, 1980; 152 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Garden Way Publishing Co. 
Charlotte, VT 05545 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Good udder 
This book bridges the gap between a 4-H pamphlet and 
the $17 goat book. 
It covers everything you should know 
before and when you get into goats. 
You can skip the 
analysis/amplification (if you want) of how a goat’s 
stomach works, the manufacture of proteins, etc. and just 
discover that one half pound of good dairy mix grain for 
each pound of milk produced is what you want. 
The small flat globules and the soft curd of goat’s milk 
contribute to its ease of digestibility. Some persons who 
are allergic to cow’s milk can consume goat's milk readily, 
due largely perhaps to its easier digestibility. 
In agreat 
many cases goat's milk has proved especially valuable for 
—Steve Katona 
[Suggested by Al 
Ames] 
Dairy Goats 
(Breeding/ Feeding/ 
Management) 
Byron E. Colby 
1966, 1972; 77 pp. 
$2 postpaid from: 
The American Dairy 
Goat Association 
P.O. Box 865 
Spindale, NC 28160 
