iron grating of the chamfered corner of the Casa Mila 
from the interior. 
Gaudi 
Expensive coffee table books don’t interest us very often 
because they tend to be mostly fluff. 
This one is mostly 
rock. Gaudi is being “rediscovered” 
by many persons 
who are fed up with glittery aluminum and glass modern 
styles. His work shows a bold imagination and a remark- 
able variety of form and color. 
Yet he based his designs 
on meticulous discipline and structural analysis. Gaudi 
didn’t write much, but the author spent many years in 
his studio, so there is ample anecdote and discussion of 
theories. 
The book is well illustrated, complete, and 
annotated to a fare-thee-well. 
All his work is displayed, 
much of it for the first time in print, so even Gaudi lovers 
will find a lot here. 
—J. Baldwin 
May God damn architects who bore and stifle and preen 
their chickenyard feathers. 
Give us more jungle birds 
like Gaudi. 
Last winter | spent an afternoon soaring 
through the towers of his Sagrada Familia cathedral 
in Barcelona. Spain can spend 200 years finishing 
that building and it will still 
be ahead of its time. No one 
can reveal the shallowness of one’s aesthetic habits as 
devastatingly as Gaudi. 
—SB 
Gaudi 
(His Life, His 
Theories, His Work) 
Cesar Martinell 
1975; 486 pp. 
$55 postpaid from: 
The M.1.T. Press 
28 Carleton Street 
Cambridge, MA 02142 
Protective screen of a patio skylight at the Casa Battlo. 
> 
. er 
hs AO SP ee OTe 
ee be 
Doi be 
ei 
eel oe 
SOFT TECHNOLOGY 
ARCHITECTS 215% 
= 
The Towers of the Sagrada Familia. 1901-1926 
The temple of the Sagrada Familia was the master’s work 
of fulfillment, and at each stage it reveals his current 
architectural preoccupations. 
Above the vertical walls of the twelve tall openings, the 
world-famous parabolic structures begin. This is the most 
architecturally interesting part of the temple, for it 
summarizes the new structural theory which he was 
never able to apply to more complex structures. 
In his 
enthusiastic search for antecedents for his works, Gaudi 
said that these towers were the perfection of the Gothic 
campaniles with set-back floors. 
In reality, however, he 
had developed a new clearly defined system of structural 
equilibrium which the Gothic architects could never have 
achieved except by trial and error or by accident. Twelve 
vertical structural elements resting on the pillars between 
the tall slender openings rise uninterruptedly upward as 
they converge slowly together at the top; they are united 
by stone plaques which slant downward and serve as sound- 
ing boards for the bells. These plaques follow a helicoidal 
distribution which parallels the interior staircase. 
Writings and Buildings 
/ read this while | was in the Army, where our bugle calls 
came on scratchy records. 
Frank Lloyd Wright’s reveille is still ringing. 
—SB 
Writings and Buildings 
Frank Lloyd Wright 
Edgar Kaufman, 
Ben Raeburn, Editors 
1960; 346 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
Horizon Press 
156 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10010 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Style is a free product but, still, a by-product: the result 
of the organic working in, and out of, a project entirely 
in character, altogether and in one state of feeling. 
Beware of the architectural school except as the exponent 
on engineering. 
Go into the field where you can see the machines and 
methods at work that make the modern buildings, or stay in 
construction direct and simple until you can work naturally 
into building-design from the nature of construction. 
Immediately begin to form the habit of thinking ‘‘why” 
concerning any effects that please or displease you. 
Take nothing for granted as beautiful or ugly, but take 
every building to pieces, and challenge every feature. 
Learn to distinguish the curious from the beautiful. 
1949 The San Francisco Bay Crossing 
project 
Arcology 
/f | get it right (and getting it at all is someting: it takes 
either lots of work or none at all) Soleri sees the next step 
in evolution as humanity’s job. He sees that step mani- 
fested in an organism and that organism is the city. 
Soleri says that the first part of his book is the most 
important. But on seeing the second part it’s very diffi- 
cult to muster much time for the first part. 
It pays, 
though, nicely. Soleri refers to Teilhard de Chardin in 
approaching the understanding of man as a cosmic prob- 
lem by ascending from physics, chemistry, biology and 
geology, Western man must rise from his technology and 
one (1 think) way is by being aware (of it) but ignoring it 
at the same time. 
The manifestation of a process Tike this 
is, | think, a series of drawings like that of the second 
$14.95 postpaid from: 
The MIT Press 
28 Carleton Street 
Cambridge, MA 02142 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Arcology 
(The City in the 
Image of Man) 
Paolo Soleri 
1969; 121 pp. 
part of the book. 
These drawings are like doorways, 
they’re of fantastic cities, wholly improbable but ob- 
viously, cosmically, possible. 
In fact, they are made real 
just by their presence in one place (the book) and by the 
interrelatedness of one project to the next, page to page, 
with seminal sketches appearing in the corners here and 
there. What’s most fascinating are the next obvious 
steps: the Cosanti and Arcosanti buildings in Arizona. 
He’s not starting all at once, big money style, but the way 
cities have always started: little by 
little. Like Nieuw 
Amsterdam on the tip of Manhattan Island or whatever 
city began at whatever river crossing or natural harbor, 
Soleri is beginning at a crossing of cosmic consciousness. 
—Ron Williams 
Paolo Soleri and the Arcosanti project 
Not a man who is satisfied with mere talk, Paolo Soleri 
has developed the organization to actually build his 
bold ideas. 
There are many who are excited by his 
Arcosanti project near Prescott, Arizona (/ among them), 
and the building continues apace with a host of appren- 
tices mixing the cement. 
You can join the fray by attend- 
ing one of the five week workshops ($300.00). From 
what | have seen, you‘l/ work hard there, getting dirty 
and learning a /ot. 
—J. Baldwin 
You can find out about the workshops and other Cosanti 
Foundation activities by writing: 
Cosanti Foundation 
6433 Doubletree Road 
Scottsdale, AZ 85253 
Buhle] 
le, 
6. 
(a) 
Sie) 
aps! 
#6 
8-0, 
6-0; 
@ 
0.8 
© 
The Natural House 
!t is always good to review one’s premises before starting 
a project. 
This collection is a tight presentation of most 
of our tacit assumptions about home design and construc- 
tion by their author. Honesty in materials, simple space 
use, straightforward construction and a realistic attempt 
at /ow cost housing are presented here. 
It is a chance to 
review popular styles and attitudes, as well as a source of 
specific ideas and techniques. 
Using many 
pictures and 
plans of well designed homes these collected writings 
bring all the abstract philosophy down to a personal and 
specific level. 
Design for the site and the owner, with 
simplicity and beauty. 
—Peter Calthorpe 
The Natural House 
Frank Lloyd Wright 
1970; 224 pp. 
$1 1.95 postpaid from: 
Horizon Press 
156 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10010 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
A stone building will no more be nor will it /ook like a 
steel building. A pottery, or terra cotta building, will not 
be nor should it look like a stone building. A wood build- 
ing will look like none other, for it will glorify the stick. 
A steel-and-glass building could not possibly look like 
anything but itself. 
It will glorify steel and glass. And so 
on all the way down the long list of available riches in 
materials: stone, wood, concrete, metals, glass, textiles, 
pulp, and plastics; riches so great to our hand today that 
no comparison with ancient architecture is at all sensible 
or anything but obstruction to our modern architecture. 
In this particular, as you may see, architecture is going 
back to learn from the natural source of all natural things. 
To me air conditioning is a dangerous circumstance. The 
extreme changes in temperature that tear down a building 
also tear down the human body. 
eooeerec eee 
eee 
eee 
ee eee 
eee 
eee ese ease 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
“J feel very lonely without a war. Do you feel 
that way?” 
— Winston Churchill to his doctor, June, 1945 
