eat 
: 
he 
“ULTU 
cy 
RE 
| 
MEDIA 
Understanding Media 
Everybody talks about McLuhan, and everybody does 
something about him, and that makes it subjectively 
harder to get athim. 
He’s got other insights than what 
you hear about, so it’s worth the trouble to track him 
down, both his current sayings and his prime collections. 
The primest is Understanding Media. 
—SB 
Understanding Media 
((The Extensions of Man) 
Marshall McLuhan 
1964; 318 pp. 
$1 15 postpaid from: 
New American Library 
P.O. Box 120 
120 Woodbine 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
As W.B. Yeats wrote of this reversal, ‘“The visible world 
is no longer a reality and the unseen world is no longer 
a dream.” 
e 
Meantime, the countryside, as oriented and fashioned by 
plane, by highway, and by electric information-gathering, 
tends to become once more the nomadic trackless area 
that preceded the wheel. 
e 
“Work,"’ however, does not exist in a nonliterate world. 
The primitive hunter or fisherman did no work, any 
more than does the poet, painter, or thinker of today. 
Where the whole man is involved there is no work. 
e 
Everybody experiences far more than he understands. 
Yet it is experience, rather than understanding, that 
influences behavior, especially in collective matters of 
media and technology, where the individual is almost 
inevitably unaware of their effect upon him. 
Culture Is Our Business 
McLuhan’s best format. Each pair of pages has a reprint 
of an ad on the right, and fresh McLuhan aphorisms, 
quotes, and misquotes on the left. 
The resu/ting energy 
across the spread is economic and multi-directional — 
i.e., you make it. 
This book should be restored to print, ideally with some 
new McLuhan additions. 
His news stays news. 
—SB 
OUT OF PRINT 
McGraw-Hill Book Co. 
Get this book 
back in print! 
Culture Is 
Our Business 
Marshall McLuhan 
1970; 336 pp. 
Ads are the cave art of the twentieth century. While the 
Twenties talked about the caveman, and people thrilled 
to the art of the Altamira caves, they ignored (as we do 
now) the hidden environment of magical forms which we 
call “ads.” 
Like cave paintings, ads are not intended to 
be looked at or seen, but rather to exert influence at a 
distance, as though by ESP. Like cave paintings, they 
are not means of private but of corporate expression. 
They are vortices of collective power, masks of energy 
invented by new tribal man. 
Poets and artists live on frontiers. They have no feed- 
back, only feedforward. They have no identities. 
They are probes. 
of satellites and information. Goals have 
now fo be replaced by the sensory reprogram- 
ming of total environments and DNA particles, 
alike. The earth is an old nose cone. 
"4 
CML 
GOL 
IY 
If nature didn’t, Warner’s will 
e 
Today, through ads, a child takes in all the times and 
places of the world “with his mother’s TV."’ He is gray at 
three. By twelve he is a confirmed Peter Pan, fully aware 
of the follies of adults and adult life in general. These 
could be called Spock’s Spooks, who now peer at us from 
every quarter of our world. 
e 
Psychically, art is valuable only when new. 
Commercially, new art is kooky and worthless. 
The gap between the kooky and the commercially 
valuable is closing fast. 
e 
Invention is the mother of necessity. 
I 
e 
lf the phonetic alphabet was a technical means of severing 
the spoken word from its aspects of sound and gesture, 
the photograph and its development in the movie restored 
gesture to the human technology of recording experience. 
Man the food-gatherer reappears incongruously as informa- 
tion-gatherer. 
In this role, electronic man is no less a 
nomad than his paleolithic ancestors. 
e 
It is a principal aspect of the electric age that it establishes 
a global network that has much of the character of our 
central nervous system. Our central nervous system is 
not merely an electric network, but it constitutes a 
single unified field of experience. As biologists point 
out, the brain is the interacting place where all kinds of 
impressions and experiences can be exchanged and trans- 
lated, enabling us to react to the world as a whole. 
The Best Thing on TV: Commercials 
If you watch television you'll love this book. 
It’s about 
something you know all too well — the ads — and that no 
other book or critic (besides McLuhan) has given proper 
attention to. Considering the amount of sheer cultural 
effort and cost that focuses into those few-second spots, 
with the encouragement of this book you can look 
through them like portholes upon a universe of media 
empire and nuance. Behind the great ads are great stories. 
—SB 
The Best Thing On 
TV: Commercials 
Jonathan Price 
1978; 184 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
Penguin Books 
299 Murray Hill Parkway 
East Rutherford, NJ 
07073 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
The door opens, and out 
gets the man. 
“Yea, 
you ‘re here!” we yell. 
“Oh God, God, oh God,” 
he says and falls down. 
And we rush out to meet 
him to find out what's 
wrong. We got within twenty feet, and then we 
all started saying, ‘““Oh God.” The bear had been carsick 
for one hundred and forty miles. He had vomited and 
defecated all over the inside of the van, all over both the 
driver and the assistant, 
and they just had to hang in there 
and drive. We got the doors open, and the bear is lying 
there with his feet up in the air. Ohhhhh. 
It knocked a 
day out of our shooting, the bear lying there moaning. 
The 100 Greatest Advertisements 
All the tricks, guilt trips and assumptions-between-the- 
lines in advertising today have their roots somewhere in 
this book. 
It’s the kind of book you can pore over, like 
a family album. 
Its most recent ad ran in 1959, and its 
earliest ones go back to the dawn of Advertising itself, 
in the 1850s. 
Yet the book’s still in print and | refer to 
my copy often. 
The editor’s unabashed commentary and 
the ads themselves are full of unintentionally revealing 
glimpses into a profession with one of the weirdest bui/t- 
in attitudes around — a mix of creativity, craftsmanship 
and unashamed prostitution. 
The attitude is quite charm- 
ing at times, especially in some of its little-old-New- 
York manifestations. 
Oh yeah, the book was intended to teach how to write 
ad copy, and you can use it that way. But its value, its 
heartbreaking importance, lies in the way it bares the 
roots of those media tendrils which poke their way so 
deeply into most of us. 
—Art K. leiner_ 
The 100 Greatest 
Advertisements 
(Who Wrote Them and 
What They Did) 
Julian Lewis Watkins 
1949, 1959; 233 pages 
$5.50 postpaid from: 
Dover Books 
180 Varick Street 
New York, NY 10014 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
+ 
You didn’t have to wait to learn the results to know this 
ad was great. 
Its greatness hit you right between the eyes, 
and you tore it out of the newspaper and pinned it to 
your wall, and stole a look at it every once ina while, 
and hoped like hell you could do something near as well. 
So | wrote David Ogilvy for the story and this is what 
he sent me: 
“When | presented this headline to the senior Rolls- 
Royce executive in New York, that austere British 
engineer said: ‘We really must do something to 
improve our clock.’ 
“At 60 miles an hour the loudest noise in this 
new Rolls-Royce comes from the electric clock” 
rt 
by Art Kleiner 
Telephone services change so quickly and quietly in the 
United States that specifics go out-of-date within weeks 
and changes aren’t reported in the newspapers. To 
confuse matters more, service from each local phone 
company is apt to be different, whether or not it is a 
division of American Telephone and Telegraph (The Bell 
System). To choose your type of service, check out some 
of the options mentioned here, decide what you want, 
and then ask in person at either the new phone center 
stores or at your phone company office. Some of the 
new options are money-savers; others make sophisticated 
new communications media out of the telephone systems 
we take for granted. 
Optional Residence Telephone Service (ORTS) eliminates 
toll charges (message units) for calls to specific areas with- 
in a specific distance (usually less than 40 miles, but 
sometimes as large as an entire state). Instead, you pay a 
$5- $10 monthly rate. 
It’s only available in metropolitan 
areas, but it’s great for those who speak regularly to 
someone in the next suburb. Also a boon for people who 
share a telephone and are fed up with figuring out who 
made those picayune message unit calls. Regrettably, 
ORTS isn’t offered over long distances. 
Optional Calling Measured Service (OCMS) is the rural 
version of ORTS. You pay a monthly fee which covers 
tolls for medium-distance calls to specific areas, 
Foreign Exchange Service (FEX) lets you set up your 
telephone number in a different community than where 
your telephone is located. You can make local calls to 
the area where your number is listed and others can dial 
you there as a non-toll call. More expensive than ORTS. 
Limited Service. Most phone companies have two or 
three limited (or reduced) service plans. You pay less 
and are allowed fewer free calls per month. Good for 
