Why shouldn’t people be generous with their 
families! This seems like reasonable parental 
behavior. It’s when people use this concept as 
an excuse for doing something that they would 
rather not do that it is a fallacy. When some- 
one works at a job that they find unpleasant, 
monotonous (too demanding), stressful, or frus- 
trating and say they do it for their family, they’re 
talking nonsense. 
Many people work long hours, develop ulcers and 
live with great stress because they believe their 
family benefits. Stop and ask your family what 
they want. Would your children rather have a 
Winnebago camper (which may mean the main 
wage earner works a lot of overtime) or would 
they rather have you at home to spend time to- 
gether or go on a camping trip with ordinary 
sleeping bags and tents? Give your family the 
choice between those possessions and the time 
and peace of mind you are diverting from them 
to earn it. 
Another useful technique is to look at a picture 
of two houses — one a glamorous mansion, the 
other a modest home with a bicycle near the 
front door. Which one of the houses has a happier 
family? Most people would say “‘I can’t tell” 
when the question is posed this way because we 
know in our hearts money and possessions have 
nothing to do with happiness. 
oney is necessary for 
security in old age.” 
Michael is blessed with a father 
who is a living contradiction 
of this. When he was 65, 
his father retired from teach- 
ing anthropology and social 
sciences with a modest 
J 
pension and Social Security 
income of $300 a month. He sold his home and 
all his belongings, including a lifetime collection 
of tools and books which brought almost no 
revenue. He bought a van in England and pro- 
ceeded to drive east with his wife (Michael’s 
parents were divorced 15 years earlier). He got 
teaching jobs along the way and stopped any- 
where he found interesting. 
Driving as far east as they could go, they ended 
up in Malaysia where they bought part of a 
South China Sea island near Singapore for $2,000. 
They now live part time on their island with a 
sandy beach, coconut trees, fresh fish, and lots of 
Malaysian and Chinese friends. They live on less 
than $100 a month and save the rest for numerous 
trips they take to all parts of the world including 
back to the U.S. One of the most surprising bene- 
fits is that they see many of their old friends from 
all over the world regularly. Everyone wants to 
visit their tropical paradise for a vacation. With 
Singapore nearby, they have all the comforts of 
a major international city with its cuisine, culture, 
and excitement. 
Michael’s father could live on any amount of 
money. In the seven years since he retired he 
hasn’t touched his savings. How about health 
care and medicine? One of his closest friends is 
chief of a major research hospital in Malaysia that 
is better than 98% of 
the hospitals in the U.S. 
Friendship is more powerful than money. 
From the Grey Panthers to people in retirement 
villages the ones who are happy in their old age 
are the ones that have the same qualities that 
Michael’s father has: being friendly and flexible. 
Money makes no difference at all. With friends, 
especially ones of all ages, you can solve the 
problems that arise, whether it’s tax increases, 
inflation or legal hassles — problems that other 
people can’t handle because times have changed 
and their lifetime experiences and contacts are 
inappropriate. Friends also provide vitality, 
emotional support and new friends — which is 
especially valuable after age 75 when one out 
of ten old friends die each year. 
Flexibility in attitude is also essential as your 
body becomes less reliable. We all know old 
people who say, “Close the window, the draft 
is terrible,” “I can’t sleep in that bed, it’s too 
soft,” and “I don’t like to be around those kinds 
of people.” With that attitude, who wants to be 
around THEM? 
Michael’s mother, who is also a positive example 
for him, has been living on her own for the last 
20 years. She built a small contemporary house 
for herself and has always been gregarious and 
flexible. Even past seventy, she’s involved in the 
politics of her city, art-related projects, and is the 
local fund raiser for the ACLU. (Any of her 
friends can call her for help on anything and she’ll 
do it.) When she comes to visit San Francisco, 
several of Michael’s friends always insist on spend- 
ing time with her and showing her around. She 
travels regularly, often being invited on global 
trips just for her company and knowledge. You 
don’t hear her complaining about comfort issues 
or how terrible the world is today. 
The three of us have worked with many older 
people who had lots of money. In a case where 
the husband had earned the money we frequently 
find that the husband is confident and secure but 
the wife is anxious and often hysterical. He has 
earned the money in the first place and knows 
he could do it again even in his old age; the 
woman has no such experience and dreads the day 
when her husband will die and she has to face the 
world alone. No amount of money that we have 
seen can calm this kind of fear. 
How do you prepare for old age? How do you 
prepare for inflations, wars, and depressions of 
the future? By being the kind of person other 
people want to be around. Competent, helpful, 
flexible, curious, generous, and experienced in 
dealing with the world. 
interesting person, money is irrelevant. You can 
have a great deal of freedom and respect during 
your life and security in your old age. However 
if you are a loner, rather selfish, with narrow 
interests in life, then making a lot of money may 
be your only way to make it through life. 
s= 
’ Bibliography 
Seven Laws of Money, Michael Phillips, (p. 308). 
Briarpatch Book, (p. 306). 
Inland Whale, Theodora Kroeber. 
Zen Mind, Beginner’s Mind, Suzuki-Roshi 
Tassajara Bread Book, Ed Brown, (p. 367). 
SECHOSLG 
© 69 
© ee 
ees 
see 
cece 
eee 
eae 
estes 
COMMUNITY 
LIVING CHEAP 
Possum Living 
Dolly Freed has published a “first of its kind.” Her book 
is a top-flight guide to simple living that is wonderfully 
written, explains the basic concept and speaks from 
personal experience. 
/ think she deserves folk hero status; the book is emo- 
tionally exciting and is very persuasuve. 
I/t is worth 
noting that Ms, Freed is 19 years old, didn’t go to high 
school and lives with her father (he is an important figure 
whom detective story readers will try to identify). 
It all 
takes place in Pennsylvania. 
—Michael Phillips 
Possum Living 
(How to Live Well 
without a Job and 
with Almost 
No Money) 
Dolly Freed 
1978; 176 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
Universe Books 
381 Park Avenue South 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
° 
Vacations, another common expenditure, are not required 
— our whole life is just one big vacation. We don’t need 
to ‘‘get away from it all’’ because there’s nothing we want 
to get away from. 
Hobbies don’t cost us much. Mine, birdwatching, requires 
a pair of binoculars and book for identifying them, but 
they both last for many years. We both have $17 running 
shoes, but they last pretty long. We bought a badminton 
set for $11 (listed under ‘’Luxuries”), but that, too, 
should give us years of enjoyment. 
Christmas doesn’t exist for us. December 25 is just 
another day here. 
‘Tis the season to be greedy, osten- 
tatious, treacly sentimental, frenzied, hysterical, mor- 
bidly drunk and suicidal, and we see no reason to 
pretend otherwise. 
e 
Owning your own home free and clear — that's the key to 
all the rest. Once you have your snug harbor, your safe 
base, all else comes easy. You can tell the rest of the 
world to go to hell if you want, once you own the roof 
Over your head. 
| believe that some parents who are 
willing to scrimp and save to give their kid a college edu- 
cation would be doing the kid a better turn by giving 
him that money to buy a house instead. Once he realizes 
he doesn’t have to worry about his future — once he has 
security and leisure to think about it, instead of having 
his future rammed down his throat — he’ll make his 
own future. 
e 
Ordinary pump-air rifles or COZ rifles are efficient tools 
for getting pigeon meat. You don’t have to own one 
yourself, for invariably some neighborhood kid will. Tell 
him you like pigeons, and he gets to gratify his killer 
instinct, guilt-free, and ‘you get that good meat. 
Every- 
one’s happy but the pigeons. 
We haven't tried it ourselves, but I’ve read of people 
scattering liquor-soaked bread, and gathering up the 
Pigeons when they get too drunk to fly. Often at night 
we planned to do this but then next morning we'd find 
there wasn't any liquor left. 
People who raise pigeons as a hobby often simply destroy 
unsatisfactory birds (such as homing birds that take too 
long to come home). 
If you ask these people they might 
either give them to you or sell them for a nominal price. 
These birds are referred to as culls. 
Before you make extensive repairs on the tumble-down 
hobo shack you bought (get used to using those kinds of 
terms), go to the tax assessor’s office and cry on his 
shoulder. Chances are the assessment was made before 
the place became dilapidated, and you might get it low- 
ered. Compare your assessment with those of others in 
your neighborhood against their last sale prices. (One 
property here sold for five times what ours went for, and 
yet had a lower assessment. 
Daddy made sure the tax 
people knew ours should be lowered!) A zoning change 
from commercial to residential, as in the cases of the grain 
elevator and our country store, also lowers the value of a 
property, which should be reflected in the assessment. 
Se. @ fe els) o/s. we) e. 0) ee 
6 186.6 (8) ee) © else a) mie mae ere 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
Sac 
A guy who travels a lot has given many people at 
the San Francisco airport those little metal clickers. 
The idea is if you get approached by a moonie or 
krishna or see some innocent approached, you 
start clicking your clicker and everyone around 
who has one (lots of staff do) starts clicking their 
clickers and keep doing it until the smiling religous 
person shuts up. It worked so well it got the 
krishnas out of SFO, at least for a while. 
— The Examiner 
289 
