a 
The Wall Street Journal 
The only daily NEWSpaper. Perhaps because it’s har- 
nessed to real events (namely price changes, the relatively 
uncontrollable democracy of the market), The Wall Street 
Journal has an honesty. Having an honesty it has an 
originality (maybe those qualities are not separable). 
/ know that if | were restricted to two periodicals for all 
my news, | would take Science (p. 33) and The Wall 
Street Journal. 
—SB 
Teal 
Street Journal 
Ee 
TT) $6 
3 
ivear (260 issues) 
2 
2 a 
ae 
La 
re ied ieee 
from: 
The Wall Street Journal 
200 Burnett Road 
Chicopee, MA 01021 
BATT | P| TT 
Tit tutti Mitt | 
TIME LOST because of strikes rose to 
2.6 million man-days idle in June from 2.5 
—e 
million man-days idle a month earlier, the 
we 
Labor Department reports. 
Portland, Ind. — Preacher Townsend looks positively 
bewitching on the pulpit this evening. He’s wearing a red 
evening jacket with velvet lapels, ruffled shirt, red bow tie 
and two-toned shoes. A small embroidered rabbit is 
popping out of a small embroidered hat on his 
right lapel. 
His sermon is enchanting, too. ‘’Thy word is a lamp unto 
my feet,’’ he says, and his Bible bursts into flame. 
Wait a minute. 
Is this the Portland Friends Church 
or a magic show? 
It’s both. 
This, folks, is show biz, Bible-belt style. Some churches 
are using unorthodox methods to increase attendance in 
the face of televised church services, changing ways of 
life and a general religious lethargy among many young 
people. Magic — either hiring such touring performers 
as the Rev. Charles Townsend or taking up sorcery them- 
selves — is the ministers’ favorite, but they are also trying 
ventriloquism, clowning and puppetry. 
Quest 
Robert Shnayerson, 
Editor 
$1 
2/year (10 
issues) 
from: 
Quest 
1133 Avenue of 
the Americas 
New York, NY 10036 
Quest 
7 “You had to watch the traffic 
Keech says of these two phot 
graphs, which were taken in 
Pennsylvania. 
‘‘When it’s 
opening time, you'd better by. 
out of the area. But dives lik) 
these are so well organized 
| 
that it usually works out.” 
|_ 
Like GEO, a brand new slick success. 
The idea of Quest 
(shocking that it should be shocking) is to present good 
news, “‘the pursuit of excellence.“’ And that it does, 
without being very predictable or at all sentimental. 
Since our magazine CoEvolution is a/so in the good news 
i 
business, there’s a 
certain competitive zest in watching 
As eae Bai ag le ,
Quest comparatively. 
It’s a good magazine to be pub- 
thinks may be his best shots t, 
lished in; they pay handsomely. We got $3500 for seven 
date. ‘But wait,” he says. 
| 
| 
| 
pages worth of Next Whole Earth Catalog excerpts. 
“You never know what I'll 
SB 
try tomorrow.” 
Lifesigns/80 — A digest of relatively good news, offering 
modest evidence that the world may yet survive. 
The bus went out of control and skidded almost — but 
not quite — over the edge of the rain-soaked Calumet 
Expressway near Chicago. 
It carried no passengers. 
The driver escaped through an emergency exit. He was 
a little banged up. He’s not complaining. What didn’t 
Manas 
Henry Geiger’s philosophical humanist journal. A weekly 
thoughtful delight, these are the good thoughts that lead 
to and emerge from good actions. 
It’s also one of the 
few places you hear about old books used in renewed 
ways — Gandhi, Ortega y Gasset, Tolstoy — and new and 
promising activities and publications. 
—SB 
e 
All the gears of the march of progress in the Western 
world have signs which say Keep on going or the machine 
will break down, but as we keep it going the little troubles 
grow into big ones, and the choices open to the individual 
are fewer and fewer because technological efficiency 
means that you get what you need in just one way or not 
at all. So there is increasing dislike, if not distrust, of 
the ‘’system’’ on which we so completely depend. 
e 
The Nation had no large funds to pay for “investigative 
journalism,” but its editor kept gathering material on 
major questions that deserved attention — the policies 
of the FBI under J. Edgar Hoover, the munitions busi- 
ness, the political corruption of New York City, the 
Prosecution and perhaps the martyrdom of Alger Hiss, 
what the CIA was doing, the persecution of J. Robert 
Oppenheimer, and the lying by government informers 
in the trials of supposed communist sympathizers — and 
found capable writers to put it together. The readers of 
the Nation have probably known more about what was 
actually going on in the area of national and international 
affairs than most other citizens. 
? 
happen to you today? 
~ 
Manas 
Henry Geiger, Editor 
$10/year (44 issues) 
from: 
Manas Publishing 
Company 
P.O. Box 32112 
Los Angeles, CA 90032 
The Economist 
Requisite reading for serious predictors. For overa 
hundred years this lively magazine with a stodgy name has 
published in London. 
Coverage is truly international, 
though strongly focused on the USA and UK. 
The staff 
is anonymous but has included Barbara Ward and those of 
her ilk. They are brutally truthful and accurate, but often 
tell their tale with understated British humor. Events of 
which | have had knowledge were more perceptively 
reported in The Economist than in the American press. 
§2 times a year you get about 125 pages of future and 
current news, politics and finance reported in depth. 
About 10 times a year a 25-page survey of a specific area, 
such as Hong Kong, oil or computers, is included. Even 
deeper surveys are available at extra cost from The Econo- 
mist Intelligence Unit. 
If a forecaster could receive but 
one publication, The Economist wou/d be a good choice. 
—Alan Kalker 
[Suggested by Richard Baker] 
e 
Neutron bombs — Now a French bid 
With scarcely a whisper of domestic opposition and little 
more than a stern glance from Mr. Brezhnev, France has 
built and tested the weapon that kicked off a major 
Russian propaganda campaign three years ago and caused 
a serious rift within Nato when the United States first 
insisted on and then abandoned it: the neutron bomb. 
The underground test on Muroroa atoll on June 16th 
means that the French have made a workable model; 
they should be able to package it inside a missile warhead 
in about a year. 
The Economist 
$48 /vear (52 issues) 
from: 
The Economist 
54 St. James's Street 
London, SW1A 1JT 
England 
Periodical 
Scanning 
by J. Baldwin 
BOUT ONCE A YEAR, J check out a Manhattan 
Yellow Pages from the local university library 
(you can order one for yourself from your Bell 
Customer Service Office too). Just about everything in 
the world is there, including useful listings not found in 
other Yellow Pages; for instance Finders. Finders, 
together with Factors, will get you together with people 
of mutual business interest. For example, let’s say I need 
10,000 used gallon jugs for a solar storage unit. Some- 
place there is somebody with 10,000 used bottles to sell. 
The Finder gets us together and takes a small cut as his 
fee. If you’re the man with the bottles to sell, you calla 
Factor, who then lists his goods with the Finder. Like that. 
I give the Sears Catalog (p. 348) the once-over quarterly 
too. That’s where you first see verified ““consumer accep- 
tance” of fads, trends, and conventional wisdom. Sears 
watchers who have been at it for many years have an 
advantage; the glacier moves ever so slowly. The catalog 
is also an interesting social document as you note subtle 
changes in the type of models used, and their poses. 
It’s 
a good place to establish a base line for product prices and 
availability, too. I read lots of catalogs besides Sears, 
including university course catalogs. 
But what I’ve found most useful about periodicals is their 
variety. Several times a year, I reserve an entire day to 
peruse the stock of a large magazine store. I snoop into 
everything from Modern Hair Styles to Supermarket 
Manager’s Monthly. Beautiful Ten-Year-Old Boys, Battles 
of World War II, CB, Kung-fu, Jack & Jill, Hollywood 
magazines of all stripes, Motor Trend, Four Wheel Drive, 
Orchid Raising, Consumer Reports, Playboy and Playgirl, 
Woman’s Day, Art News, Modern Camera, Ski, Bicycling, 
Vogue Patterns, Field & Stream, Dogs, Cats, Horses . 
. 
. 
egad! Snoop-reading gives me a cross-section of what is 
going on in this vast country. Perhaps it’s a bizarre idea, 
but I have found over the years that the habit really does 
seem to reveal trends. I usually make peace with the 
magazine store by buying one now and then as the day 
progresses. I am limited, finally, by curvature of the spine, 
clatter from the mental storage-retrieval system, and squint. 
This game can also be played in the periodical room of a 
big library. If it is a university library, you will soon be 
into things you have never even heard of, let alone sus- 
pected that there were enough people interested in to make 
sik? 
