WHOLE SYSTEMS 
42 ANTHROPOLOGY 
Patterns of Culture 
Years go by and still no book replaces Patterns of Culture. 
The graceful contrasts of human life. The reminder to 
reflect on our cultural prejudices before judging another 
tribe. Unique anthropology by a unique woman. 
—Peter Warshall 
Patterns of Culture 
Ruth Benedict 
1934, 1959; 291 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
Houghton Mifflin Corp. 
Wayside Road 
Burlington, MA 01803 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Tristes Tropiques 
This intimate account of Levi-Strauss’ field work in Brazil 
galvanized budding anthropologists all over the world. 
Find here the intelligent roots of elegant sturcturalism. 
—SB 
e 
The ensemble of a people’s customs has always its parti- 
cular style; they form into systems. 
| am convinced that 
the number of these systems is not unlimited and that 
human societies, like individual human beings (at play, in 
their dreams, or in moments of delirium), never create 
absolutely: all they can do is to choose certain combina- 
tions from a repertory of ideas which it should be possible 
to reconstitute. 
When we make an effort to understand, we destroy the 
object of our attachment, substituting another whose 
nature is quite different. That other object requires of us 
another effort, which in its turn destroys the second 
object and substitutes a third — and so on until we reach 
the only enduring Presence, which is that in which all 
distinction between meaning and the absence of meaning 
disappears: and it is from that Presence that we started 
in the first place. 
It is now two thousand five hundred 
years since men discovered and formulated these truths. 
Since then we have discovered nothing new — unless it be 
that whenever we investigated what seemed to be a way 
out, we met with a further proof of the conclusions from 
which we had tried to escape. 
Pigs for the Ancestors 
Fast becoming a classic of anthropological fieldwork, 
this study pioneers in the application of energetics 
(energy expenditure in gardening, for example) and of 
cybernetics (which shows how the Tsembaga’s pig cycle, 
ritual cycle, and warfare cycle interact to accomplish 
ecological stability). We've carried two of Rappaport’s 
papers in The CoEvolution Quarterly — both of them 
based on this book’s wild careful experience in New 
Guinea. 
Ideas here, | believe, are going to change how we 
think about our own culture and what we’re going to 
do about it. 
—SB 
Among the Tsembaga, and other Maring-speaking groups 
in New Guinea, through ritual the following are effected: 
1. Relationships between people, pigs and gardens are 
regulated. This regulation operates directly to protect 
people from the possible parasitism and competition 
of their pigs and indirectly to protect the environment 
by helping to maintain extensive areas in virgin forest 
and assuring adequate cultivation-fallow ratios in 
secondary forest. 
2. The slaughter, distribution, and consumption of pig is 
regulated and enhances the value of pork in the diet. 
3. The consumption of nondomesticated animals is 
regulated in a way that tends to enhance their value to 
the population as a whole. 
4. The marsupial fauna may be conserved. 
5. The redispersal of people over land and the redistribu- 
tion of land among territorial groups is accomplished. 
6. The frequency of warfare is regulated. 
Later, traditionally when the boy is about fourteen and 
old enough to be responsible, he is whipped again by even 
stronger masked gods. It is at this initiation that the 
kachina mask is put upon his head, and it is revealed to 
him that the dancers, instead of being the supernaturals 
from the Sacred Lake, are in reality his neighbours and 
his relatives. After the final whipping, the four tallest 
boys are made to stand face to face with the scare 
kachinas who have whipped them. The priests lift the 
masks from their heads and place them upon the heads 
of the boys. 
It is the great revelation. The boys are 
terrified. The yucca whips are taken from the hands of 
the scare kachinas and put in the hands of the boys who 
face them, now with the masks upon their heads. They 
are commanded to whip the kachinas. 
It is their first 
object lesson in the truth that they, as mortals, must 
exercise all the functions which the uninitiated ascribe 
to the supernaturals themselves. The boys whip them, 
four times on the right arm, four on the left, four times 
On the right leg, four on the left. Afterward the kachinas 
The Last of the Nuba 
are whipped in turn in the same way by all the boys, and 
the priests tell them the long myth of the boy who let 
fall the secret that the kachinas were merely impersona- 
tions and was killed by the masked gods. They cut his 
head from his body and kicked it all the way to the 
Sacred Lake. His body they left lying in the plaza. The 
boys must never, never tell. They are now members of 
the cult and may impersonate the masked gods. 
It is difficult for us to lay aside our picture of the universe 
as a struggle between good and evil and see it as the 
Pueblos see it. They do not see the seasons, nor man’s life, 
as a race run by life and death. 
Life is always present, 
death is always present. Death is no denial of life. The 
seasons unroll themselves before us, and man’s life also. 
Their attitude involves ‘no resignation, no subordination 
of desire to a stronger force, but the sense of man’s one- 
ness with the universe.’ When they pray they say to 
their gods: We shall be one person. 
How it makes me feel is poverty-stricken. 
—SB 
Tristes Tropiques 
(An anthropological study 
of primitive societies 
in Brazil) 
Claude Levi-Strauss 
(John Weightman and 
Doreen Weightman, 
Translators) 
1955, 1973; 403 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Atheneum Publishers 
c/o Book Warehouse, Inc. 
Vreeland Avenue 
Totowa, NJ 07512 
Pigs for the Ancestors 
(Ritual in the Ecology of a 
New Guinea People) 
Roy A. Rappaport 
‘ 
oa! 
1968; 311 pp. 
: ¥f , 
‘ “> 
; 
$5.45 postpaid from: 
or ee ee 
: 
Yale University Press 
92A Yale Station 
New Haven, CT 06520 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
A medium-sized pig 
is sacrificed to the 
Red Spirits. (Photo 
taken by Mrs. Cherry 
Vayda among the 
Fungai-Korama, a 
Maring group living 
east of the Tsem- 
baga in the Simbai 
Valley.) 
With the impact of Ansel Adams’ This is the American 
Earth or E/jot Porter’s \n Wildness is the Preservation of 
the World, Leni Riefenstah/ lovingly reveals what life in 
balance, a human culture in balance, might feel like. The 
Nuba is a remote East African tribe. Leni Riefenstah! is 
the lady who made the films “Triumph of the Will” and 
“Olympia”. 
The book is almost all color photographs — 
sensuous, personal, charged. 
The Last of the Nuba 
Leni Riefenstahl 
1973; 208 pp. 
$25 postpaid from: 
Harper & Row 
General Books 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
ae 
Generally well in control 
of their world, the 
Mesakin Nuba tend to 
be cheerful and friendly. 
Young people especially 
are conscious of and 
delight in their attractions 
even though they may, 
like Tutu, be rather shy. 
They are fond of orna- 
ment, decoration and 
jewelry and take great care 
with their appearance. 
Fields of tobacco require special preparation: the clay is broken up into separate holes, 
each of which will take a single plant. This traditional — and immensely ancient — 
implement is a form of shovel being used here by a young wrestler. al 
