—a—-“. 
130 
LAND USE 
SCYTHES 
ythes 
by David Tresemer 
(By Hand and Foot, Ltd.) 
PHOTOGRAPHS BY 
JOSEPH DeCARLO 
There are several tasks which a scythe can perform 
for a homeowner, a gardener, and a farmer: 
1. Mowing hay: in small fields at the average rate 
of 1 acre per person per day (up to four fora 
skilled mower) to produce hay for animals and for 
mulching. Even for mowing lawns, the traditional 
method of scything is economically competitive 
with a gas-powered mower for areas up to 4000 
sq. ft. 
2. Cutting weeds: to keep them from going to 
seed and to destroy nesting sites of insect pests. 
This approach is called “‘clean culture” and begins 
to show dramatically positive effects in the next 
season. Ascythe can cut around trees in corners 
where machines cannot go. 
3. Harvesting small grains: for small patches of 
homegrown wheat, barley, oats 
. 
. 
. One quarter 
of an acre provides a year’s bread (and waffles) for 
a family of four; a reaper can harvest nearly an 
acre in a day. 
In each case, for a certain range of areas the scythe 
is as good economically as any gasoline-powered 
alternative, and is healthier. 
We have tested many scythe systems in the last 
three years, and are offering the very best. Euro- 
pean farmers impressed upon us that it is the very 
best tool one should have to labor in the fields, 
atool that will be passed on to the next generation. 
There are several parts of the scythe system: 
Blade: Unlike most hardware store scythe blades 
which are stamped and ground, this Austrian blade 
is made by hand in 26 separate steps of hammering 
and tempering. No machine is capable of the 
artistry and judgment required to produce a blade 
so light; it is soft enough to bend instead of break 
if a stone is accidentally hit, hard enough to keep 
a tazor-sharp edge. The 26” (65 cm) length is the 
best for the tasks demanded of the scythe. 
$26 plus mailing 
Blade cover: to prgtect the blade — and people — 
from nicks in transit. Made from heavy canvas 
hemmed with safety stitch. 
$5.60 plus mailing 
Metal snath: This light tubular steel (not aluminum!) 
snath sets the scythe blade at exactly the right 
angle in relationship to the ground. Handle adjusts 
to accommodate everyone. This is what we 
recommend for beginners and occasional users. 
Requires little care or adjustment. 
$19 plus mailing 
Wooden snath: Straight snath of air-dried ash 
made in Vermont; unique offset handle is adjust- 
able within a mortised channel so a person of any 
size can use comfortably. Like a wooden boat, a 
wooden snath requires extra care: if it gets too 
wet, it can warp slightly and need adjustment. 
The advantage is the ability to tinker with it to 
perfect a tool uniquely fitted to you; but without 
some experience these adjustments are hard to 
make. We do not recommend this for the beginner. 
The serious mower will find it light, sturdy, 
and graceful. 
$24 plus mailing 
SHARPENING 
These blades are made of a somewhat softer steel 
than stainless to permit a much keener edge. How- 
ever, they dull more quickly than stainless and 
must be resharpened in a two-stage process: first, 
peening with small hammer and anvil; second, fine 
honing with a whetstone. Complete instructions 
are given in the manual, “Mowing Hay, Cutting 
Weeds, and Harvesting Grain with the Scythe.” 
Hammer and anvil: Every other day under constant 
use, the blade is lightly hammered on a small 
anvil to draw out the metal into a thin edge and to 
harden it. 
: 
Hammer $9.10 plus mailing 
Anvil $8.80 plus mailing 
Whetstone: For final honing and retouching in the 
field. You mow once around the field and pause 
for a minute to sharpen the blade. 
$5.20 plus mailing 
Whetstone holder: The holder is partly filled with 
water to rinse the metal grits from the pores of 
the stone after sharpening. Made of hard yellow 
plastic, this stone holder is less cumbersome than 
the traditional wooden holder and can be more easily 
seen in the field. Belt clip for carrying with stone. 
$5.30 plus mailing 
at 
ACCESSORIES 
Grain cradle: Four wooden tines follow the curve 
of the scythe blade and catch the stalks of grain as 
they are cut. Traditionally a separate tool, modern 
methods permit us to manufacture a detachable 
grain cradle for our scythe. Put it on for assistance 
in harvesting wheat, barley, oats, and other 
small grains. 
$24 plus mailing 
Wooden hay fork: Superior to a metal tine fork 
for cleaning the field of hay and straw. Made from 
a single ash pole, this fork is expensive but will 
last for many years. 
$22 plus mailing 
More than any written accounts, the grass will 
teach you how to use the scythe. Further instruc- 
tion is available at several summer workshops 
sponsored by By Hand & Foot, Ltd.: schedule is 
included with brochure. 
a» 
all from: 
(These folks also devised 
By Hand & Foot, Ltd. 
a woodsplitting system, 
P.O. Box 611 
p. 210.) 
Brattleboro, VT 05301 
