COMMUNITY 
DYING 331 
rr 
SS 
SN STS 
OTSEGO 
A 
TERRES ESTEE 
ee 
A Hospice Handbook 
With astonishing speed the hospice movement is investing 
America. More and more communities have the service, 
sometimes as part of a local hospital, sometimes not. /t 
means that dying is acknowledged finally, that the dying 
are acknowledged. 
If you‘re dying, find a hospice. 
If 
you're living, help make one. 
Of a number of books on the subject, this one | think 
covers the ground most thoroughly and insightfully. 
—SB 
A Hospice Handbook 
(A New Way to Care 
for the Dying) 
Michael Hamilton and 
Helen Reid, Editors 
1980; 196 pp. 
$4.95 Postpaid from: 
Eerdmans Publishing 
Company 
255 Jefferson Avenue S.E. 
Grand Rapids, MI 49503 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The dying are often lonely, frightened, and in pain. They 
deserve special care and attention, 
and this book describes 
a new, humane way to help them. All of us will die one 
day, and we need to prepare for that time. 
The Hospice for the Dying movement began in England 
in the late fifties and early sixties with the opening of 
St. Christopher's Hospice in London. 
It was primarily the 
creation of Dr. Cicely Saunders, who recognized that 
many patients were receiving inadequate care in hospitals 
and that relatives were having problems in caring for the 
dying at home. Dr. Saunders saw the need for supporting 
and counselling the patients and their families before 
death as well as after death. She inaugurated programs 
by which patients, knowing their death was inevitable and 
imminent, could enter the hospice program and receive 
only symptomatic control. 
Instead of using heroic techno- 
logical methods which prolonged the dying process, Dr. 
Saunders gave only sophisticated and effective pain relief. 
She provided medical, nursing, and spiritual care for 
hospice resident patients and also for those who, having 
someone to look after them, could die comfortable and 
happily in their homes. 
e 
The aim of treatment should be to control pain so that it 
will not return. This can be compared to the control of 
blood sugar in diabetics where the physician does not 
wait for symptoms of distress or coma before giving 
insulin. Breakthrough, or recurring pain is unnecessary 
pain. Additionally, recurrence of pain erodes the patient's 
confidence in his physician while generating anxiety and 
fear. Constant pain control is achieved through appro- 
priate dosage given at regular, well-timed intervals. 
Ease of administration is a significant consideration 
because it has substantial impact on the patient's way of 
life. The patient taking oral medication is free to move 
around, travel in a car and, most importantly, be at home. 
The Business of Dying 
A guide to dealing with the legal and financial aspects of 
dying — wills, estate planning, probate, funeral services. 
Divided into two parts — Preparing for Your Own Death, 
and Coping with a Death in the Family. Unsentimental, 
Jast-minute, nuts-and-bol/ts advice on putting your affairs 
— ora loved one’s — in order. For amore long-term 
preparation and planning, see A Manual of Death Educa- 
tion and Simple Burial. 
—Tom Ferguson, M.D. 
The Business of Dying 
(A Practical Guide) 
Yaffa Draznin 
1976; 228 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
Hawthorn Books 
E.P. Dutton and Co. 
Two Park Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
When you die intestate (without a will) the probate court 
(or “surrogate court” or “orphans court’’ or whatever the 
name in your state) appoints an administrator to supervise 
the distribution of the property. The administrator 
appointed often is the closest inheriting next of kin 
(which may or may not be good for your estate, depen- 
ding on how complicated its business affairs are and your 
relationship to that person). 
Care of the Dying 
In bad times, a friendly culture has customs and tra- 
ditions_and etiquette and folklore and rituals that 
tel/ you what to do with pain and love. Our cu/ture isn’t 
friendly with dying and the only advice it gives is to lie 
a lot. /f you decide to be honest and loving with a dying 
person, it’s hard to know what to do specifically. Dr. 
Richard Lamerton works at St. Christopher’s Hospice 
in England, and he has advice for medical people and 
family and friends about exactly how to help when they 
feel very helpless. 
—Anne Herbert 
Care of the Dying 
Richard Lamerton 
1973; 160 pp. 
$8 95 postpaid from: 
Technomic 
Publishing Company 
265 Post Road West 
Westport, CT 06880 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
On their death beds many men mature wonderfully. 
Priorities fall into place, tolerance and courage may grow 
in the most unlikely soil and more amazing still is the 
serenity which so often comes to one from the dying. 
Much of the work of those caring for the dying is to pre- 
vent anything arising which may hinder this growth in 
the patient’s being. He must be free from pain, but still 
alert; he must be told as much of the truth about his 
condition as he can cope with, but no more; he must be 
encouraged to turn his attention away from himself, 
and must be given a clean example of real service. 
When a man’s responsibilities drop away, either by reason 
of physical weakness or of senile dementia, there remains 
a great beauty which has been covered by the busy-ness — 
or laziness — for many a year. Death removes the covers: 
this unmasking can be a thrilling revelation. 
People feel helpless beside the dying because they do not 
realize that what counts is their presence, not their 
activity. They may feel guilty because the mind plays 
with irrelevant thoughts, taking attention off the dying 
person. They should be encouraged to touch the patient 
— hold his hand for instance — for this will be one of 
his last channels of reassurance. To the last he can be 
assumed to hear all that is said. Often a flicker of a smile 
or a faint squeeze of a finger will confirm that the mes- 
sage has been received. 
Distress in the last hour is rare and the fear of it isa 
morbid twist in our culture. The idea of suffering may 
well be projected on to a person by distressed spectators 
who are in fact dreading their own imminent bereave- 
ment. There is, on the contrary, almost always a rather 
beautiful giving-in. The person withdraws serenely and 
willingly, as gently as an ocean liner slips away from the 
quayside. Sometimes there may be a brief period of com- 
plete lucidity, as in the case of Mr. B. who, when | went 
to say good-bye, suddenly opened his eyes and said to me, 
“I'm joining your flock now, Doctor. 
| hope the coffin 
is ready. Cheerio!’’ 
A Manual of Death Education 
and Simple Burial 
Not everybody has an opportunity to depart this world 
gracefully, and those that do usually blow it. The people 
left behind fumble just as badly, for largely the same 
reasons: ignorance, fear, a lack of foresight and prepara- 
tion. None but the dead can know for sure the full 
consequences of the failure. But even if there are no 
consequences for the dead, there are enough of them for 
the survivors in the forms of trauma and ruptured bank 
accounts, to make this Manual of Simple Burial seem 
something like a life-saver. 
For-this little manual of death is firmly on the side of 
life. As part of the literature of funerals, it’s like a living 
rosebud in a bouquet of plastic flowers. 
In 64 pages it 
quietly tells you how to avoid the ghastly system of convert- 
ing human left-overs into products packaged as “‘funerals.”” 
/n simple language backed by intelligent sympathy, it 
suggests ways to surround the act of passage with appro- 
Priate rites of passage that offer real meaning to people in 
need of meaning. 
According to the manual, the main alternative to expensive, 
hastily-improvised funerals is membership in a memorial 
society. A memorial society is “a voluntary group of 
people who have joined together to obtain dignity, simpli- 
city andeconomy 
in funeral arrangements through advance 
planning.“” The manual provides a list of several societies 
by name and address. 
It also has information on crema- 
tion, autopsies, eye banks, bequethal of bodies, and the 
business and legal matters that usually attend a death, as 
well as chapters with titles like “Interpreting Death to 
a Child,” and “What to do When Death Occurs.” 
People choose their horrors. We choose war. We choose 
pollution. And, by default, we choose to make the rituals 
surrounding death grotesque. But what is chosen can be 
unchosen, once an alternative is clear. The:Manual of 
Simple Burial describes a clear alternative to one of our 
chosen horrors. 
—Gurney Norman 
. .. Thentthere’s the way the state statute deter- 
mines who inherits what. The rules are determined by 
marriage or blood relationship; and how the formula 
is applied is based on the number of relatives alive when 
you die, how close their relationship was to you, and 
whether or not you live in a community property state. 
The formula is predetermined and rigid — and while 
the distribution may be just the way you would have 
apportioned your estate, the chances are that it won’t 
be. The number of “‘typical’’ family situations upon 
which the intestate laws are based are very few in real 
life. And once you die, the impersonal process set 
into motion is unalterable. 
Bequests to charity are given no recognition. Persons 
with whom you're very close, either taking care of you or 
living with you, get no part of your inheritance if they 
are not related by blood or law. Neither does your 
divorced spouse nor her or his children, nor any number 
of persons with whom you may havea special relationship- 
Your business may have to be liquidated, your estate 
may be subject to federal and state taxes at the highest 
rate, and your heirs may have to wait an inordinate length 
ofitime until your assets are freed to pass to them. 
You can see why now is the time to make out your will. 
A Manual of 
Death Education 
and Simple Burial 
Ernest Mortan 
9th Edition 
1968, 1980; 
64 pp. 
$3 postpaid from: 
The Celo Press 
Burnsville, NC 28714 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
At time of death the immediate family is under great 
strain. Ordinary things like shopping, cooking, child care 
and minor chores suddenly become “just too much.” 
This is a time when thoughtful friends should rally in 
a coordinated way, with food, errands, child care, hospi- 
tality for relatives, chores, etc. Done skillfully, in the 
right context, this is a comforting and heart-warming 
experience. 
Ineptly done, it can be an extra burden. 
Don't say, “‘If there’s anything | can do, just let me know.” 
These functions usually fall within the scope of the 
church, neighborhood or other social group, but someone 
is needed to “‘spark’’ the action. 
e 
Modern cremation is a clean, orderly process for returning 
human remains to the elements. Unless encumbered by 
unnecessary trimmings it is economical. With the rising 
cost of land burial and (in some areas) shortage of land, it 
is finding increasing use. Many prefer it for aesthetic 
reasons. Between 8% and 10% of those who die in 
America are now cremated and in Sweden, Denmark, 
England and West Germany the figure is now above 
50%. Crematoria are increasing in number. 
The ashes (actually pulverized bone fragments) are clean 
and white and may be stored indefinitely or mailed 
parcel post for distant interment. Some families prefer to 
scatter them in a favorite garden or woods, or froma 
mountain top. (First make sure they are pulverized, to 
avoid visible bone fragments. This is not difficult.) Some 
crematories now have equipment which leaves no ashes 
at all. A few states have laws prohibiting the scattering 
of ashes. Such laws are commercially motivated and serve 
no hygienic or esthetic purpose. 
Bodies may be delivered to the crematory, in most cases, 
in a plain container; in some, on a pallet. Inexpensive 
fibreboard containers are manufactured for this purpose. 
Some crematories require a regular casket and this require- 
ment is sometimes mistakenly quoted as law. The con- 
tainer is placed in the retort with the body. Crematory 
charges range from $75 to $150. In some places religious 
groups or private citizens may obtain the necessary death 
certificate and permits for transportation and cremation, 
- 
usually provided no one is being paid. In other places a 
funeral director is required. 
eee 
eee eee eee 
eee 
eee eee 
eee eee eee 
ne 
THE RISING 
SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
Nac 
Libraries will get you through times of no money 
better than money will get you through times of 
no libraries. 
ie! 
i 
|
