Randall made knives 
It’s understandable that males occasionally get their 
knives confused with their cocks, given the similar shape, 
activity, and (wish) size. 
That’s the only way | can 
explain the mania that goes on around “custom” 
knives. 
Anyway, at about the pinnacle of the mania is Randall 
knives, famously famous, and also quite fine knives at 
reasonable prices. 
In a field that tends toward the 
grotesque, Randall stays with a conservative simplicity 
of design, even in his renowned fighting knives, beloved 
by military men. 
For a fascinating treatment of the world 
of custom knives, see Knives and Knifemakers by Sid 
Latham (1973; $6.95 postpaid from MacMillan Publishing 
Company, Order Dept., Front and Brown Streets, River- 
side, NJ 08075). 
Personally | prefer Gerber (the whole line is shown on 
p. 450 in the Thos. D. Robinson review). The All-Purpose 
Gerber (4%” blade, $20) is the only knife | use for 
kitchen and camping — thin blade, tough edge, fine 
design, light weight, easy sheath. 
| suspect that Gerber’s 
Mark I! Survival knife ($40) is a more effective weapon 
than Randall's (though not much use for anything else, 
and Randall’s are). The over-rated Buck knives you can 
forget — they shatter. 
Gerber for use; Randall for pride 
—and use. 
| admit to being sorely tempted. 
—SB 
Indian Ridge Traders knife blades 
a 
Model 18. ‘‘Attack-Survival’’ — 512" and 7/2" blades 
of 4%" stock. Sawtooth edge on top. 434" - 5" stainless 
steel tubular handle. 
1°’ diameter, silver-soldered to 
Y%"" oblong brass hilt, fitted with removable, threaded 
brass butt cap and waterproof “‘O”’ ring. 
(See detail.) 
Fiared holes in top and bottom of hilt accommodate 
wrist thong and facilitate attachment of rod for con- 
version to spear. (Name etching and stainless steel blade 
only extra features available. Manual for combat use 
available. 
(Wt. 52’ 10-12 oz., 7¥/2’' 12-14 oz.) $128 
(One of these knives is displayed in the Museum of 
Modern Art in New York.) 
Model 3. ‘‘Hunter’’ — 5"’, 6"" and 7” blades of "" stock. 
4¥2"" - 3/4" leather handle. 
Brass hilt. Duralumin 
butt cap. An ideal all-around heavy duty sportsman’s 
knife. Scientifically designed for every outdoor use. 
(Wt. 6-8 oz.) 
$85 
Randall Made Knives 
$ .50 from: 
Catalog 
Randall Made Knives 
P.O. Box 1988 
Orlando, FL 32802 
How to Make Knives 
IRT’s specialty is a line of unfinished knife blades made 
by Hopkinson in Sheffield, England. IRT is a small 
neo-co-op organization which | have dealt with over the 
last couple of years. 
Their prices are low, the service fast 
and friendly, and best of all unlike other knife firms, no 
far right political bullshit. 
Their blades are almost strictly high-carbon steel which 
although not as classy as 440C stainless is easy to work 
with and can be sharpened by hand in a finite amount 
of time, a characteristic not included in 440C’s properties. 
A knife which | made for my own use from one of their 
blades, a rigger’s knife, has seen use in and around fresh 
and salt water for over a year now with negligible rusting 
and pitting with only a minimum of care. 
Their catalog lists a large variety of blades, mostly tools 
with only a few weapons. 
Their line of kitchen blades is 
especially good. 
They also list some knife finishing 
materials and suggest sources for others. One source 
which they suggest for a variety of weird hardwoods is 
the back of your friendly neighborhood Oriental motor- 
cycle dealers. Nearly all his thrown-out crates are made 
of a variety of Eastern hardwoods. 
—Larry Murray 
Indian Ridge Traders 
free from: 
Catalog 
Indian Ridge Traders 
P.O. Box 869 
Royal Oak, MI 48068 
e 
The Lightweights 
Many hunters and backpackers prefer a very light, small 
knife of high quality. This group of blades was designed 
with such people in mind. Each blade has a “‘cast-on”’ 
tang (not in a straight line with the blade) which gives 
some mechanical advantage when the knife is drawn 
toward the user in a cutting Operation. The tangs are 
large enough to provide great strength but small enough 
to be completely inletted in a slab handle allowing the 
knife crafter to make a handle of any shape or size that 
suits his needs. Each blade is made of 1/16” steel and is 
hollow ground, so you know they aren’t made for 
whittling. They are of American Carbon Steel and you 
can readily hone these like a Surgeon's Scalpel which is 
the design concept. A very sharp, small, thin blade will 
work faster and easier than a heavier blade in the usual 
knife tasks encountered by the small game or bird hunter. 
LW-1, Packer, 4” x 3/4” x 1/16", 1 oz, Grind D, 
American Carbon Steel, KSS-B, $3.70. 
LW-2, Bird Blade, 4” x 3/4” x 1/16", 1 oz, Grind D, 
American Carbon Steel, KSS-B, $3.70. 
LW-3, Slicer, 4” x 3/4" x 1/16”, 1 oz, Grind D, 
American Carbon Steel, KSS-B, $3.70. 
LW-4, Mini Skinner, 2-3/4" x 3/4” x 1/16", 3/4 oz, 
Grind D, American Carbon Steel, KSS-B, $3.70. 
LW-S, Fish Blade, 4” x 3/4” x 1/16", 1 oz., Grind D, 
American Carbon Steel, KSS-B, $3.70. 
LW-7, Unground Blank, 4" x 3/4"" x 1/16"’, 112 oz, Not 
ground, American Carbon Steel, KSS-B. You can put 
your own shape and basic grind on this fully heat treated 
blank to create your own custom knife, just grind slowly 
and cool frequently to Protect hardness. $2.00. 
Most how-to books concentrate on mystery or history. 
This one does neither, despite the possibilities present in 
an old tradition-rich craft. Every step is photographically 
served, and, surprise, there’s even a discussicn of metal- 
lurgy and tempering! Multiple visiting pros add the 
interest of several opinions. 
There’s a fine list of tools 
and resources too. 
—J. Baldwin 
[Suggested by John Ellis, Jr] 
How to Make Knives 
Richard W. Barney and 
Robert W. Loveless 
1977; 182 pp. 
$13.95 Postpaid from: 
Beinfeld Publishing, Inc. 
12767 Saticoy Street 
North Hollywood, 
CA 91605 
Yeah, | know — there are lots of knives around with 
stamped trademarks. But do this sometime: ask a metal- 
lurgist about notch-sensitive tool steels, and stress risers, 
and stuff like that and you'll learn why | don’t stamp my 
blades, ever. 
ee 
Trumark Slingshot 
“My God! Is that far-out!,” was the reaction given to a 
demonstration of the power and accuracy inherent to my 
Trumark, an example of what an old innovation, the sling 
shot, the creative application of a scientific principal, lev- 
erage, and a little practice can produce. 
The Trumark is an expertly crafted piece of hand weaponry 
far superior to all others | have ever encountered, short 
of the firearm. 
It is completely rust-proof and, if in time 
the rubber sling should break after hard, long usage, it 
fs easily replaceable with two matching lengths of surgical 
rubber tubing obtainable from your local dealer. 
Trumark Slingshot 
—Joe Eddy Brown 
$6 postpaid 
Information 
Matched replacement 
free 
all from: 
rubbers and leather 
pouch assembly 
$2 postpaid 
Trumark Wrist-rocket 
P.O. Box 1517W 
Boulder, CO 80306 
eete 
ae 
8.6 
6 
eels 
Ste 
b 
6, 
6 66 
« 
(6) 
os 
0, 
© 6 
616 
6 0 6 
6.0 
@ 0 0 6 
(8 
S66 
Gye 
© 6 
046 
te) 
'ene 
NOMADICS 
KNIVES 453 
Step-by-Step Knifemaking 
A straightforward step-by-step how-to book on knife- 
making, and the perfect companion to How to Make 
Knives by Barney and Loveless. 
This one manages to be a 
hair different in that it gets into making and adapting 
equipment as well as using less of it. The big bonus comes 
in the chapter on Etching on Steel — everything you need 
to know for embellishing the blade by etching. What this 
must do to the school of knifemakers who refuse to so 
much as stamp a trademark on a blade because of stress 
risers, etc.! Two opposing camps. 
Boye talks about cutting up vegetables, while Barney 
and Loveless have a curious line about cutting up people. 
! guess that does get into the history of knives. 
These 
two books should keep the budding knifemaker happy 
for awhile. 
—Charlene Modena 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
Step-by-Step 
Knifemaking 
Rodale Books 
David Boye 
33 East Minor 
1977; 288 pp. 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Rivet holes 
Baking a whetstone 
e 
I 
Cleaning the Whetstone 
It is important to keep the stone clean. 
Periodically wash 
the stone with soap and water, or use a solvent and a rag. 
Occasionally, it may be necessary to clean the pores of 
the stone if they are clogged up. To do this, soak the 
stone in kerosene, wrap tightly in a towel, and bake in 
a slow oven (250°F.). 
Now we come to a vital step in the making of a pouch 
sheath: the first wet forming. Good cowhide possesses 
a unique property. 
It stretches when slightly wet, and 
holds whatevershape you mold it to. So now you turn 
on the hot water tap (hot water works best, although | 
don’t know why), and put the sheath under it, getting it 
just wet enough to turn dark in color, but not soaking 
wet. 
Fold the sheath side together to form the pocket, 
and get the knife into it, about in the position you want 
it to be. Mold the damp leather in against the knife, 
especially around the guard and around the handle. 
Press the leather against the blade, on each side, enough 
to get an imprint of the edge on the surface of the cow- 
hide. 
Be sure to have your hands clean while you’re 
molding the leather, because any dirt or stains you get 
On the leather during this operation won’t come 
out, period. 
When you are satisfied that you’ve molded the leather 
down on the knife to suit you, take the knife out of the 
wet-formed pouch, and wipe it off dry. Even if your 
knife is made out of 440C or 154CM, nothing will stain 
it like hot, wet leather. 
evi 
ss 
ste, & Bie e Ue 
6.6) 6 9. 6610/6 e460 
© fee 6488 wo 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
continued from last spread 
So he was not surprised when one day God came 
to him to talk to him about the Ninevites. He had 
never spoken to God before, and he wasn’t really 
a God groupie, but he figured God knew who the 
expert was, right? So God came to Jonah, and 
said, “Jonah, I’m going to destroy all the Nine- 
vites.” And Jonah said, “Wow, you must have 
read my article,” And God said, “Before I destroy 
them I want to warn them. It seems only fair. 
Since you know so much about them, I want you 
to go to Nineveh and tell them I’m going to 
destroy them, so they’ll have a chance to change 
their ways and save themselves.” And Jonah 
said, ‘‘No way in hell. [ don’t want to go there, 
they’re creepy people, and besides that, what if 
they change?” So Jonah took off. He took the 
greyhound bus to the most distant point available, 
only it wasn’t a Greyhound bus at that point in 
time, it was a boat. He got on the boat, and he 
thought he would skip town, and all would be 
cool. He did not know he was dealing with a 
Whole Earth God. 
continued on next spread 
