i 
a 
How to Inspect a House 
A valuable little book on what to look for in buying a 
house. How to evaluate foundations, dry rot, electrical 
and plumbing systems. 
If you can make an accurate 
estimate of repairs needed, you’// know better what 
youre getting into and how much to offer. 
—Lloyd Kahn 
Pretty valuable information if you‘re selling a house or 
keeping a house, too. 
—SB 
How to Inspect 
a House 
(formerly Don't Go 
Buy Appearances) 
George C. Hoffman 
1972, 1979; 198 pp. 
$4.95 Postpaid from: 
Delta Books 
One Dag Hammarskjold Plaza 
245 East 47th Street 
New York, NY 10017 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The Household Pollutants Guide 
We all know that “they” are trying to kill us, right? But 
how? This nasty little book will show you where the 
dangers lie in your very own home. 
/t’s presented ina 
non-hysterical way, but the cumulative effect of reading 
the whole book is to run... someplace. Paranoids will 
find all this delightful. The rest of us will be more careful 
and | hope be inspired to put some heat on the people 
who se// us poison by whatever name. 
The book is from 
the Center for Science in the Public Interest. We should 
thank them. 
—J. Baldwin 
The Household 
Pollutants Guide 
Albert J. Fritsch, Editor 
1978; 309 pp. 
$3.50 postpaid from: 
Doubleday & Company 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Even if fiber glass is ultimately exonerated of carcinogenesis, 
the inhalation of airborne fibers can still injure sensitive lung 
tissue. Those working regularly with this material have a 
tendency to develop such respiratory tract ailments as bron- 
chitis, pharyngitis, rhinitis, asthma, laryngitis, sinusitis, 
and nosebleed. 
The Mother Earth News 
A great country wishbook for city dwellers who are think- 
ing of cutting out to the woods — a /ot of people; over 
500,000 use it, they say. As the beginnings of the maga- 
zine are somewhat connected with Whole Earth’s early 
success, | have a mix of feelings about it that might be 
better expressed by frankness than by faint praise. No 
one we know that actually lives in the country uses the 
thing. 
It’s no longer among the 60 or so publications that 
CoEvolution subscribes to because the yield turning its 
innumerable pages looking for a bit of news is too low. 
Trust wilts amid the overwhelming ad space and uncritic- 
ally enthusiastic articles (“Recycled Floor Mats!”’) and 
cornpone language (energy writer Wilson Clark still 
winces about an article of his that Mother Earth News 
“translated into babytalk”). 
On the other hand, founder John Shuttleworth’s heart is 
mostly in the right place environmentally. 
The “Plowboy” 
interviews often are quite good and with non-celebrities 
of real interest. 
There’s a conversational interaction that 
encourages readers to write and get published, often for 
the first time in their lives. Some of the ideas work. 
And there’s that itchy audience. Solar designer Steve 
Baer noted, “When CoEvolution publishes something 
about Zomeworks, all | get is a good feeling. When 
Mother Earth News does, / get a /ot of orders.” 
—SB 
If you're a struggling artist in need of cash, Gary Nelson 
suggests you paint ‘‘House Portraits.” 
aL 
In two or three rooms, remove the plate from an electric 
outlet on the exterior walls only. Wedge the scredriver 
between the box and the wall covering. Push the screw- 
driver gently through to the exterior wall. Feel for a 
slight resistance; you’re determining whether or not there 
is insulation in the wall. Move the instrument about a 
little. Nothing? Okay. Try ina few more rooms. One 
test is not conclusive. 
You'll know if you meet a spongy 
resistance; if so, you've got insulation in that wall. 
It’s 
good to know, for it tells you of hidden quality. 
Thousands of articles have been written on how to change 
washers to stop drippy faucets, but few mention bonnet 
packing. Changing washers won't prevent leaking bonnets. 
If you’re going to do the job yourself, here is one simple 
remedy. Remove the old packing and wrap the stem 
with ordinary cotton string to fill the void of the bonnet. 
With this method there’s no need to have a certain size of 
bonnet gasket. String can be wrapped to fit any size. 
It 
will last five years or more. 
I’ve never known a plumber 
who didn’‘t carry a ball of cotton string. With that he can 
meet most emergencies. He uses strings many times in 
place of gaskets in the large chrome nuts on the drainpipes 
beneath sinks. You can too. 
There is little disagreement that fiber glass is also a potent 
skin irritant. This material is by far the most important 
cause of mechanical contact dermatitis. Although many 
people suffer only minor discomfort from this disease, 
others may have severe reactions. Fiber glass dermatitis 
is no longer just an occupational hazard for insulation 
workers, but a significant problem for the consumer. 
This is because of the increasing influx of fiber glass 
products into our homes over the past fifteen years: 
curtains, draperies, tablecloths, etc. The problem does 
not usually arise in their use, but in their cleaning. When 
these items are laundered, large numbers of glass fibers 
may be released to contaminate other fabrics in the same 
(or future) wash load. Physicians have reported entire 
family outbreaks of dermatitis from contaminated sheets, 
towels, etc. 
The Mother 
Earth News 
Bruce Woods, Editor 
$1 5/year (6 issues) 
from: 
The Mother Earth News 
P.O. Box 70 
Hendersonville, NC 28739 
Plowboy: The biointensive farmer will have to face the 
same kinds of problems that most gardeners tackle, then. 
John Jeavons: Exactly, and the /ast thing I'd want anyone 
to do is read this interview 
. 
. 
. say, ‘‘Wow, that sounds 
fantastic!’’. 
. 
. and invest his or her life savings in trying 
to set up a commercial mini-farming operation. 
Such a person would be far better off to start with a 
single bed the first year and — if that project is a success 
— expand to between five and ten plots the following year 
... continually learning and expanding, as long as the 
venture proves successful, until he or she is able to work 
part timeasa mini-farmer and part time at a “‘normal’’ job. 
Naturally, the u/timate goal would be to quit all outside 
work and step into an established, minimal risk, ‘‘pocket 
farming” operation. The approach is cautious, but we're 
talking about dealing with living biological systems. 
Growing crops — by any method — can’t be approached 
like a paint-by-number picture. 
Of course, a lot of folks have no interest in commercial 
farming at all. But | really encourage everyone who has 
JRBAN HOMESTEADING 
Simsiiere 
spe 
6 © > © 
6,8 
06 
6 6 6 0 
COMMUNITY 
Essex Forge floor lamp 
/f you’ve ever shopped for a floor lamp, you know that 
it’s near impossible to find a versatile durable lamp at a 
reasonable cost. Most of what can be found in furniture 
stores looks like something that escaped from a hospital 
operating room or a minimal sculpture exhibition. 
1 came across Essex Forge in a New Yorker ad and 
damned if their catalog didn’t have a fine, simple adjust- 
able floor lamp that won’t tip over, for less than sixty 
bucks. A real find, and it comes with a decent shade. 
Essex also makes a lot of other useful items, adapted from 
colonial designs. 
—Sim Van der Ryn 
$1 from: 
Essex Forge, Inc. 
One Old Dennison Road 
Essex, CT 06426 
Essex Forge, Inc. 
Catalog 
Bridge lamp — $56.50 
—— 
anne 
Home for Sale by Owner 
You have a home to sell, and you don’t like realtors and 
their habits, and you don’t know zip about selling a 
home. What do you do? A real good start is to read 
this book. Might be a good idea to read it if you‘re 
thinking of buying too, for it is a very good presen- 
tation of both ends of the deal. 
It’s also some- 
what of an indictment of the realty trade (which 
could use a bit of public scrutiny these days in 
my opinion). 
The tricks, pitfalls, forms, pro- 
cedures and trade secrets all are shown and in 
a relatively readable manner, fortunately. Reading it 
left me with a sense of outrage though. Too bad a 
book like this is necessary. 
—J. Baldwin 
Home for Sale 
by Owner 
Gerald M. Steiner 
1976; 200 pp. 
$7 95 postpaid from: 
Hawthorn Books 
260 Madison Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
If your home needs $1,000 in repair work, you'll have to 
drop your selling price by at least $3,000 unless you 
decide to invest the money to remedy the condition. 
The slightest curiosity 
about the method to try 
one small raised bed — it 
doesn't have to be more 
than three by three feet 
— in his or her back yard. 
Beacuse — after a little 
Practice — he or she 
should be able to grow 
enough carrots, for 
instance, for one person 
for a full year... right in 
that tiny nine-square-foot 
plot in the course of a 
three month growing 
season. And even such a 
small step toward self- 
sufficiency can be an 
incredibly exciting and 
inspiring experience. 
Judy Sizemore reveals a 
cash-producing craft for 
the ecology-minded. 
Make recycled-glass 
wind chimes. 
Ce ee 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
Growing up in Cincinnati during the Cold War, I 
got mixed up about which Reds the headlines 
were talking about. 
