TO iN 
OPEN’ cot 
{ | 
: 
ALONG eed 
i 
Lines 
SKINNING 
a’casen’ 
7 
the length of the tail. Once in place, it will serve as a 
mini-trough or guide for the blade to follow. This 
will assure a straight cut the whole length of the tail 
(Fig. 4). 
Once removed, the open skin is stretched by tacking 
fur side down onto a board (Fig. 5). The remaining 
bits of flesh are scraped off with a knife, a sharpened 
spoon, or whatever tool you can improvise. This is 
called ‘‘fleshing.” After the hide is fleshed, a little 
borax may be rubbed in as a preservative and the skin 
put in a warm place to dry. This usually takes a few 
days to a few weeks depending on the humidity and 
temperature and the thickness of the skin. 
The case-skinned hide is treated basically the same 
except you have to improvise a flat, bullet-shaped 
stretcher sized in proportion to the animal hide in 
question. This can be cut from a board or made from 
a bent piece of springy steel wire (Fig. 6). | once cut 
one out of a piece of stiff cardboard for a weasel skin. 
The hide is slipped like a glove over the stretcher. 
For 
the fur market, cased hides are usually stretched with 
the flesh side out, but for my personal use, | usually 
leave the fur out. 
FTER THE ANIMAL IS SKINNED 
and if you plan to eat it, then the 
entrails must be taken out. This involves cutting into 
the abdominal cavity, reaching in and pulling out the 
guts. It may seem a little yucky at first but there are 
ways to get into it. Look at those colorful organs! 
You’ve got a basic anatomy course right before you. 
Can you identify them? Sometimes | open the 
stomach to see what the animal has been eating. The 
stomach contents of plant-eating animals usually have 
a pleasant herbal smell that’s a refreshing contrast to 
the strong visceral smells wafting from the body 
cavity. You may want to save the liver to cook or 
add to the gravy. If you do, carefully remove the gall 
bladder which is on the underside of the liver. Don’t 
allow any of its contents to drip onto the meat. 
(You’ve heard the expression, ‘‘bitter as gall.’’) 
' Above the diaphragm in the chest cavity are the 
heart and lungs. These parts can also be used in 
gravies and stuffings. 
Some mammals have scent glands on various parts of 
their body that can adversely affect the taste of the 
meat. Deer have glands in the hock or “‘elbow”’ of the 
hind legs. Be careful not to touch or cut into these 
while preparing the meat. Certain other small animals 
have four waxy corn kernel-shaped glands. If you 
take note of these and remove them, most of your 
battle against excessive gaminess is won. 
In the 
muskrat, there is one gland under each fore and hind 
leg. In the opossum, raccoon, woodchuck, and porcu- 
pine there are two glands in the small'of the back and 
one in each front “armpit.” (You thought you had 
gamy pits.) 
DEER 
- a 
an 
A SS 
gf 
a 
= 
OU ARE REALLY INTO A BONANZA if you 
find a fresh killed deer. In most states however 
you can be busted for possession of a deer out of 
season if you don’t have a hunting license. This is 
true of any game, but the penalties for deer tend 
to be the heaviest. 
Deer are also harder to conceal. 
If you want to pick up the road killed deer and 
appear legal during the hunting season, you can buy 
a license and the proper stamps and tags and say that 
you shot it. Out of season, there is usually no legal 
channel. 
If you report it to a game warden, their 
" 
STRETCHER 
AND 
_ WIRE STRET CRE 
FoR ‘CASED’ SKINS 
rn 
SS 
Umprete 
cA RIB 
To Skin THE TAL 
Fie é 
DOUGLAS ELLIOT 
common policy is to confiscate the meat and donate 
it toa government financed institution such as an old 
folks home or a school. 
With fresh venison, the longer it is cooked, the tougher 
it gets. The recipe | use goes something like this. Heat 
a skillet till red hot. Puta dab of grease on it and then 
rub half an onion over the surface. Throw a thin slab 
of venison in such a manner that it skids lightly over 
the surface of the pan and is caught on a waiting 
dinner plate where it is to be served immediately. 
(This is hardly an exaggeration.) 
| also recommend 
venison jerky. Lean meat is cut into shoelace-like 
strips and hung over sticks in the smoke of a fire till 
itis dry. The venison shouldn’t be so close to the fire 
that it cooks. 
It takes on a delicious smoked flavor 
and makes a tangy, high-protein trail munchie. 
THE BUCK-TOOTHED VEGETARIANS 
ABBITS AND SQUIRRELS are mild 
flavored and hardly need any prelimi- 
naries. They can be fried, stewed or even stuffed and 
roasted. Rabbits have a particularly thin, delicate 
hide that tears easily when skinning, so don’t be 
discouraged if you have trouble getting it off whole. 
In some parts of the country (the west and southwest 
in particular), rabbits sometimes carry tularemia 
(spotted fever) and bubonic plague, so it is important 
to know the area where you pick up rabbits. (Check 
with local wildlife people, game wardens, or veteri- 
narians.) Wearing rubber gloves is often recommended 
when dressing rabbits. 
It’s all right to eat a rabbit 
with tularemia as long as it is well cooked; it’s only 
in the raw state that it can cause problems. 
Other rodents like muskrats, porcupines and wood- 
chucks are also good eating, however, a little 
parboiling and marinating is in order with these. 
THE CARNIVORES AND OMNIVORES 
i ae 
ZS 
= 
eres == 
a 
AND OPOSSUMS are 
common highway fatalities. Since 
they have a varied diet, the flavor of their meat is 
often a function of what they’ve been eating. The 
salt soak and vinegar marinades as well as parboiling 
is usually called for. 
| have eaten fox meat on one occasion and it was 
quite good. After soaking and parboiling, | browned 
the pieces in a skillet with onions and simmered them 
in their own gravy. We cooked up some potatoes and 
steamed some wild amaranth and lambs-quarter to 
round out the meal. 
WILDFOWL 
LEANING AND DRESSING BIRDS: 
the main question is — to pluck or not 
to pluck. To remove the feathers you can either 
pluck the bird or skin it. There are advantages to 
each. When the bird is plucked with its skin left on, 
it has a tendency to cook better because the skin 
COMMUNITY 
ROAD KILLS 363 
usually holds in the moisture as well as the fat. 
Plucking the bird dry is somewhat messy because the 
feathers fly about and also stick to your hands. 
(This is less of a problem with small birds.) The best 
way to remedy this situation is to scald the bird in 
a pot of boiling water with a little detergent added 
if the bird is oily (especially in the case of waterfowl). 
The detergent cuts the oil so the water can soak 
through to the skin. 
| usually prefer to skin the bird for a couple of 
reasons. 
First of all, it is less time consuming. 
Secondly, | like to keep the feathers for decoration, 
etc. This way they are anchored, won’t blow around, 
and are in the same arrangement as they were on the 
bird. Soaking the feathers makes them difficult to 
reclaim. Also, with some fish-eating birds, the strong 
flavor is in the skin and fat and they should be 
removed even if the bird is plucked. 
If you want to save the skin, rub it with borax and dry it. 
| don’t usually stretch bird skins but | often pin the 
wings out-spread till they dry. These are great for fan- 
ning fires and for ornamental or ceremonial purposes. 
Pheasants, grouse and quail are the real prizes of the 
prolific pavement. They are mild tasting, have large 
breasts of white meat, and, like turkey, are well suited 
to stuffing and roasting. These as well as other birds 
can be cooked the same way that you cook any 
poultry. | have eaten doves, ducks and railbirds, as 
well as various songbirds. 
| even ate crow once and 
found it delicious enough to be worth losing election 
bets on a regular basis. 
i "= 
ILLUSTRATIONS 
BY 
KATHLEEN 
O'NEILL 
REPTILES 
NAKES are often highway casualties, 
especially in the spring and fall when 
they crawl onto the roads to absorb a bit of extra 
warmth. All kinds of snakes are edible. | have tried 
rattlesnakes, copperheads, and rat snakes and have 
found them all quite good. Filet mignon, which is 
considered to be the best cut of beef, comes from the 
muscle right along the backbone. When you look at 
a snake, you will realize that it is practically all filet 
mignon. Snakes should be at least a couple of feet 
long to have enough meat on them to be worth eating. 
| usually skin a snake by cutting around the neck and 
then down the belly. The skin pulls off rather easily 
and the entrails literally drop out, making it one of 
the easiest animals to clean. The skin should be 
tacked out and fleshed before it has a chance to dry. 
The meat is white and mild flavored but tough. 
It 
should be cut in pieces and parboiled for about twenty 
minutes. After which | usually like to roll the pieces 
in flour ‘and fry them like chicken. 
= 
eee 
eee ee eens eee eee eres 
eee eee 
‘THE RISING SUN 
- NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
eet 
erat 
ve 
continued from last spread 
There’s a whole bunch of other stuff about church 
bells in churches that has to do with the fact that 
they’re high up and you have to climb narrow 
steps to ring them and tall ladders to see them (the 
ringing rope is long) and a certain natural exclusiv- 
ity is built into these activities. My dad had a 
confirmation class that met for a year in a bell 
tower by the bell and really fixed it up and invited 
their 
parents at the end but some parents never 
saw the club room because they were scared shit- 
less, but that actually belongs with climbing 
stories not ringing stories, and I can’t think of any 
other ringing stories right now, except The Nine 
Tailors, a good and oppressive mystery story by 
Dorothy Sayers, all about change ringing which, 
dare I tell you involves 9 bells and lots of non- 
random number sequences and lots of difficult 
description, and I read and liked the whole thing 
even the description and even the numbers, two 
of my unfavorite things. 
O 
