256 
CRAFT 
CERAMICS 
The Kiln Book 
The best book on kiln building I’ve ever seen. A true 
handbook: well designed, clear, easy to locate informa- 
tion — chock-full of it, too! If you are building a kiln, 
this is THE book to consult. 
—Mary Law 
The Kiln Book 
Frederick L. Olsen 
1978; 146 pp. 
$9.50 postpaid from: 
Keramos Books 
Westwood Ceramic Supply 
14400 Lomitas Avenue 
City of Industry, CA 
91744 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The electric kiln is a product of the Twentieth Century 
and could prove to be the fourth most important inno- 
vation in kiln building history. The first was the building 
of the fundamental kiln container in which pots were 
placed. The second was the development of high temper- 
ature refractories both in the Orient and Europe, along 
with the introduction of fossil fuels in Europe. The third 
was the development of light-weight insulation bricks and 
related refractory materials which started during the 
1930s. The fourth was the electric kiln, a totally origi- 
nal conception in the firing of ceramic ware using 
completely different principles in design, involving the 
laws of electricity and electrical wire technology with 
the lightweight insulation refractories. 
Kiln Building With Space-Age Materials 
Those of us involved in high energy high temperature 
crafts (I’m working in bronze casting as well as pottery) 
vare severely affected by fuel shortages and costs. Since 
alternative sources of energy don’t meet the temperature 
or aesthetic requirements of high temperature reduction 
firing (except wood firing which many rural potters are 
returning to) a more efficient method of using the fuel 
we have needs to be found. 
Colson introduced the 
ceramic-fiber insulations in an article in Craft Horizons 
about ten years ago. Now his book gives methods, 
sources of supply and proven designs that will allow us 
to continue to work with greatly reduced consumption 
of fuel. 
—Lee Ferber 
Kiln Building with 
Space-Age Materials 
Frank A. Colson 
1975; 127 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
Van Nostrand Reinhold 
Order Department 
7625 Empire Drive 
Florence, KY 41042 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Inside the Tamba 
Tube Kiln 
Big Creek pottery wheel plans 
This is a good way to get yourself a fine wheel at a low 
price — if you are willing to put some time and energy 
into the project by building it yourself. 
With the soaring 
prices of good ready-made wheels, and kits too, this 
build-your-own approach makes better and better sense. 
The prototype for this wheel is excellent: 
| used one 
for six weeks at a Big Creek workshop and can report 
all good things about it. The design is good, the construc- 
tion is simple and solid, it is comfortable to use, easy to 
clean: in short, it works well. 
It should be fairly easy to 
put together, and, if you follow the directions right and 
use good quality materials, you should end up with a 
wheel as good as those at Big Creek. 
—Elina Holst Levy 
Big Creek 
$2.50 postpaid from: 
Pottery Wheel 
Bruce A. McDougal 
Plans 
Big Creek Pottery 
Davenport, CA 95017 
In the developmental stage of the United States space 
program, it was evident that it would be virtually impossible 
for a rocket to be launched off its pad if its firebox was 
lined with conventional firebricks. 
Materials had to be 
developed with extremely high heat insulating qualities 
combined with practically no weight... 
. 
Among the most available and diversified of the materials 
are the alumina-silica ceramic fibers. 
Although there are 
several other types of ceramic fibers made from zirconium, 
quartz, and other minerals tolerant to high temperatures, 
the alumina-silica fibers are the most easily available and 
reasonably priced. 
Weighing one-fortieth the equivalent 
volume of firebrick, these materials have a normal heat 
exposure range of 2300°F. Quite recently, new fibers 
containing 20 percent more alumina have been developed 
which have a working temperature of 2600°F 
., well within 
the potter's heat range for stoneware temperatures. 
One 
manufacturer is presently developing an alumina-silica 
fiber with a heat tolerance above 2600°F... 
. 
Since ceramic-fiber thermal materials became available, | 
have been using them as an integrated part of many kilns 
both for myself and other craftsmen. 
First | used the 
alumina-silica ‘““‘blanket’’ as a partial replacement for bricks, 
and this alone cut fuel costs to one-fourth, firing time to 
one-third, and labor and materials to one-half for high- 
temperature reduction kilns. 
e 
The portable raku kiln 
Ceramic Science for the Potter 
/f you sit down to read this cover to cover, don't be put 
off by the heavy emphasis on chemistry in the first two 
chapters — it gets easier. 
This book is more technical 
than many potters | know will tolerate, but if it’s solid 
information you want, | recommend as especially helpful 
chapters 5 (clay slips), 9 (firing), and 11 (glaze fit). | 
found myself ready for this information after making 
pots for several years without really understanding 
many of the reasons why things worked. Not essential 
information to doing good work, of course, but very 
satisfying to some. 
—Mary Law 
Ceramic Science 
for the Potter 
W.G. Lawrence 
1972; 239 pp. 
$12.95 postpaid from: 
Chilton Book Company 
Attn: 
Sales Service Dept. 
Chilton Way 
Radnor, PA 19089 
(A) 
ale 
Tensile crazing of a glaze. 
(A) low stress, 
(B) high stress. 
Compression defects in glazes. 
(A) shivering, 
(B) peeling, (C) fracture of body in tension, 
usually at its thinnest or weakest point. 
“ 
EDGE 
WATER 
OF 
KAOLIN 
Fig. 4-9 
Kaolinite surface (left) and build-up of hexagonal 
water structure on this surface. 
