The Family Circle Guide to Self-Help 
Self-help groups provide a low-cost, low- technology, 
consumer-intensive alternative to expensive, high- 
technology, expert-intensive models of providing human 
therapy and services. 
The self-help movement is large 
(500,000 groups, 5 million members in the U.S.) and 
largely invisible. 
This inexpensive paperback is a readable, helpful intro- 
duction to the theory and practice of self-help groups. 
Includes listings of 450 self-help groups in the U.S. 
and Canada. 
—Tom Ferguson, M.D. 
The Family Circle 
Guide to Self-Help 
Glen Evans 
1979; 240 pp. 
$2.25 postpaid from: 
Ballantine Books 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
| have seen self-help group members reach out to 
neurotics, gamblers, alcoholics, drug abusers, phobics, 
ex-convicts, and child abusers, to name a few, and lead 
them out of their enormous emotional anguish and over- 
whelming stress and guilt. Many of these people had been 
unable to deal with the bureaucracies of programs spon- 
sored by professional agencies. Others had been tragically 
ignored, stigmatized, and ridiculed for years. 
It was a 
revelation to me to see how they responded to people in 
self-help groups who had been ‘‘down the line,’’ who 
shared their anxieties and concerns with them and offered 
encouragement and support. 
As one group of self-helpers put it (the Integrity Groups), 
“You alone can do it, but you can’t do it alone.” 
How to Live with Schizophrenia 
Here is the book that spells out the idea and practice 
of treating schizophrenia with a recently developed 
medication, nicotinamide — vitamin B-3 — in massive 
doses. 
It’s not universally successful, but for those it 
works on itis a miracle cure. As it’s a matter of restoring 
a chemical balance, it may take weeks or months to take 
effect, and the patient will probably need it for life, as 
a diabetic does insulin. 
The drug is cheap. For the 
sufferer it would be cheap at any 
price. 
How to Live with 
Schizophrenia 
Abram Hoffer and 
Humphry Osmond 
1978, 177 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid from: 
University Books 
120 Enterprise Avenue 
Secaucus, NJ 07094 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Treatment of Schizophrenia 
Perhaps you have been depressed for the past few months. 
For no good reason that you can think of you suddenly 
burst into tears, or you have moments of panic you can't 
explain. Your work no longer interests you. You are 
fatigued and miserable. 
At the same time you may be having frightening experi- 
ences, such as seeing flashing lights, noticing changes in 
people's faces, or feeling peculiar changes in your body. 
Something is happening to you and novone has been able 
or willing to tell you what it is. 
Perhaps you are now taking tranquilizers and occupational 
therapy at aclinic? You are possibly making regular 
visits to your psychiatrist for deep therapy to ‘‘root out 
the source of your troubles buried in your psyche.” 
Although you are willing to cooperate with your doctor 
to the best of your ability, you are frightened because 
you are not feeling any better, and you are convinced 
that you never will. 
What can you do now? Where can you go for help? 
Help is available. 
It is up to you to see that you get that 
help. We will describe here a treatment program for 
schizophrenia which we have developed and found effec- 
tive in our own work, and which we think is the best 
available. We will furthermore examine what part other 
members of the treatment team — hospitals, nurses, 
family, community, and yourself — must play in this 
effort. For effective treatment of schizophrenia requires 
all the resources that can be nrade available to you... 
Madness Network News 
Madness Network News Reader 
I’ve never gone crazy enough at the right time for some- 
body to grab my 
ass, lock me up, and pump me full of 
social drugs and electricity, so that | might be a milder 
member of modern American culture. Thousands of folks 
are sleeping behind bars tonight because they got a little 
weird once too often, or let their mind shine through a 
little too strongly at the wrong time, or pushed a relative 
just a little too far. 
Madness Network News Reader is a digest (1974) of the 
Madness Network News, and represents the collected 
efforts of a few folks who are trying ‘to put an end to 
the degrading and alienating practices of the psychiatric 
system and to create instead a process that validates 
human beings and their right to express themselves.” 
MNN js a too/ in that direction. 
The publications are full 
of scary things, funny things, crazy things, revolutionary 
things, all having something to do with the overthrow 
of the mind control industry. 
—J.D. Smith 
Madness 
Network News 
$5/6 issues from: 
Madness Network News 
P.O. Box 684 
San Francisco, CA94101 
Madness Network 
News Reader 
Sherry Hirsch, et al., 
Editors 
1974; 192 pp. 
$7.29 postpaid from: 
Glide Publications 
330 Ellis Street 
San Francisco, CA 94102 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Lonely, hell! 
| feel crowded. 
e 
Atwake we keep our dreams of sleep 
PSYCHOLOGICAL SELF-CARE 
COMMUNITY 
Sometimes Catatonia 
sits with me for hours. 
| do not speak to her. 
She does not speak to me. 
We communicate this way. 
e 
A jolt of power jars you into the darkness of temporary 
death. 
It’s a darkness you can’t see or perceive. 
It’s the 
equivalent of death, except you wake up again. You 
wake up upstairs in your cell and they feed you breakfast. 
It destroys some of the cells in your brain and erases 
your treasured memory. The war-criminal doctor gives 
you not one of these but 15, and one guy got 100! 
It completely shuts off the light in your brain to tempo- 
rary darkness that feels like it lasts one day, but actually 
lasts about 20 minutes. 
It’s horror!! 
After my treatment, given to me because | punched an 
attendant, | couldn’t even remember what my mother 
looked like and one patient couldn‘t even remember the 
names of his kids. One patient asked me if he ‘‘died”’ in 
the shock treatment room. One patient said he got a 
‘little glimpse of eternity and there’s nothing out there.” 
One girl after her treatment said, ‘“Where’s my brains at, 
where's my brains at?”’ Yes, girls get shock treatments, 
too. Once, in Montana a patient DIED on the table, and 
never got up. 
| lost my treasured memory, and much of my mental 
ability. 
| used to be good at mathematics, now | am just 
mediocre. 
| used to be the best Bridge player at the hos- 
pital, now a retarded patient plays better. 
| used to be 
able to memorize all the cards in a Pinochle game, now | 
just coast through. | used to be good at Art, now | quit 
because | lost the knack. Now | am always forgetting 
things and | used to have a good memory. 
I’m stopped at 
getting choice jobs and professions. (The treatments give 
you Epilepsy, too.) 
And every doctor applying electricity to the flesh knows 
it harms. 
His sins are seen by the Skies, and by himse/f. 
He’s worse than an Auschwitz fanatic. 
e 
What are the real issues? ‘I don’t like what you are doing, 
stop it . .. and this is what I'm going to do if you don’t.” 
If more people said that and meant it then there would be 
less need for psychiatric hospitals to do other people’s 
—SB 
because we see life’s seems are cheap. 
dirty work. 
—Madness Network News Reader 
You Are Not Alone 
Sane Asylum 
A tough-minded primer of emotional problems and 
The spectacular success of John Maher’s Delancey Street, 
mental health, and guide to seeking professional psycho- 
the place of turnaround for social wreckage such as cons, 
logical help. Part One leads you through methods of 
junkies, hookers in San Francisco, is not just reported 
treatment and diagnostic categories while at the same time 
but made understandable — maybe even replicable —in this 
questioning whether some diagnoses (e.g., schizophrenia) 
riveting book. Read it for dialogue, read it for method. 
} 
serve any useful purpose. Part Two is a consumer's 
guide to mental health resources likely to be available in 
your community, and includes a useful chapter on paying 
for such services. Part Three, entitled “Outrage — And 
How to Use It,”’ is a guide to making the mental health 
establishment meet your needs. 
Park is the mother of an autistic child. She’s been there. 
Park and Shapiro’s book is a model consumer's guide — 
crammed full of relentlessly practical information and a 
wealth of well-chosen resources. 
—Tom Ferguson, M.D. 
You Are Not Alone 
(A comprehensive guide 
for people who want re- 
liable information about 
emotional problems, 
mental illness, and how 
to get professional help) 
Clara Claiborne Park and 
Leon N. Shapiro, M.D. 
1976; 496 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid from: 
Little, Brown and Co. 
200 West Street 
Waltham, MA 02154 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The professional's first allegiance is to his patient. The 
professional's trust is something that relatives have to 
earn. How can you earn it then? You don't do it as you 
might elsewhere, by sounding knowledgeable, even if 
you are. Mental health professionals are more interested 
in who you are than in what you know. 
If you establish 
that you're open, reasonable, and not too full of yourself, 
they'll be more ready to accept you on their turf. Avoid 
fancy psychiatric terms, at least at first, even if you've 
read them in this book. 
It’s surprising how well you can 
make out in plain English. Though psychiatric pro- 
fessionals use those words continually, they don’t seem to 
like them nearly as well when they hear them from us. 
Oi 
6 6 
0486 
we 
6.06 
Sane Asylum 
(Inside the Delancey 
Street Foundation) 
Charles Hampden-Turner 
1976; 291 pp. 
$1 0 postpaid from: 
San Francisco 
Book Company 
2311 Fillmore Street 
San Francisco, CA 94115 
On the issue of radicalism versus traditionalism, John has 
grasped important truths from Martin Luther King and Cesar 
Chavez. As you try to change a social system, you must 
calm it as you change it, or it will go into shock and you 
will lose all control. Accordingly, you must especially 
emphasize tradition and continuity with the past in order 
to create a sense of movement from that past into the future. 
“Tell me, Your Lordship, you construct theories in which 
even we may have a place?” 
“Yes."" 
“You make connections between distantly related events?” 
“When | can." 
“And from this activity you get pleasure — even a few highs?” 
“Why, yes | do!"” 
It feels so good to be understood that 
I'm almost gushing. 
i 
“See!"’ he turns to the others in triumph. “Mad! Abso/utely 
mad. Answers tangentially, shuts himself away and theorizes, 
makes connections, gets high: a theory addict! 
He's one 
of us. Welcome to the club!” 
eee 
eee 
ee eee 
eee 
eee eee seer eeseeeeses 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
DS 
“T was in the Navy and all you can do ona ship is 
play poker in different places.” 
