CRAFT 
CERAMICS 
Entering (ramics 
by Mary Law 
In attempting an overview of ceramics, I feel the 
most important thing to discuss is its diversity — 
in approach and in result. Clay has been used for 
thousands of years, and one of the reasons for its 
use is its very nature. It is plastic and flexible, and 
then upon drying (and, usually, firing) it becomes 
hard, durable and permanent; it is thus a very 
adaptable, multi-purpose material. Those same 
characteristics contribute to its widely varying 
usage today. 
As one travels around this country (and certainly, 
the world), it seems that people are approaching 
clay in every conceivable way. Some choose clay 
for its malleable and receptive nature, working 
spontaneously and quickly; others plan and exe- 
cute exact, sometimes very complex forms from 
the same material. Some people rejoice in the lack 
of control over the clay in certain types of firing, 
while others opt for a more controlled approach 
with quite predictable results, sometimes even 
firing with the aid of 
acomputer. A person’s 
approach to clay is at times a part of a whole 
lifestyle: people interested in a self-sufficient 
existence may place importance on digging their 
own clay and using local renewable fuels (for 
example wood) for firing their work. Probably 
the majority of people using clay rely on the 
permanence achieved by firing the piece, but 
others make statements of their own by leaving 
the clay unfired and therefore fragile and imper- 
manent. Some people use clay solely to make an 
artistic statement, and others feel that function 
is the main impetus in their work. Some are self- 
taught, others have years of training behind them. 
Of course, these diverse positions are not mutually 
exclusive, but are rather interrelated aspects of 
the whole. 
Japanese Stoneware Dish — 
18th century. 
Horse- 
eye pattern. 
Work situations too vary widely. They can range 
from a small room or even a tabletop in someone’s 
house, to a large studio designed to accommodate 
a particular person’s work needs. Some people 
choose to work in a cooperative group studio, 
which could range from two or more people shar- 
ing a single space to perhaps twenty or more 
separate studios in the same building. Some 
people enroll in classes and do most of their work 
in the ceramics department. An apprenticeship, 
though rare, sometimes provides a person with 
the space in which to work. Studios seem to 
exist in every possible location — they can be 
found right in the heart of the city as well as in 
remote, rural areas. 
A word should be said, I think, about occupational 
or professional avenues open to people who work 
in clay. Making a living by selling one’s work is a + 
Finding One’s Way With Clay 
One of the best books for beginners | know of, because it 
doesn’t intimidate but rather encourages one to try and 
see. Excellent photographs. 
It shows a nice approach 
to working in general — enough technique (and clearly 
explained) for control, accompanied by the important 
message that mistakes and surprises are alright. Many 
good suggestions for next steps and for how to move in 
new directions in general. 
| cherish this book. 
—Mary Law 
e 
This exercise came about when | needed to develop a way 
of practice to help counteract two traits | experience in 
myself and observe in some of my students as well. The 
first trait | would liken to a form of addiction. 
| come to 
a way of working that | like and enjoy and find important 
for a time, and find myself continuing with it well past 
the time that the light and life in this way have gone out 
GS. it. cs 
5 
The second trait is one that | believe | share with many 
students of pottery. 
It has to do with a quality of will- 
fulness. Often | work with a predetermined vision of 
what | would like to make, and while this, in many 
instances, seems to work fine for me, there are many 
other instances when this way of working produces a 
kind of deafness and sightlessness and lack of sensitivity 
to what is actually happening... 
. 
So | set myself this task: to take a small amount of clay 
and wrap it freely and simply with soft yarn and then 
to pinch out the clay, moving only where the yarn 
allowed me to move. 
| would follow what the yarn design 
established. 
If there were an open area the clay would 
move out; it if were a bound area the clay would have to 
move up or down. 
| didn't seem to have to make any 
decisions. What resulted were forms unlike any | had 
ever made or seen before. 
@ 
Lifted Bowl: A) Starting with a round ball B) Thumb 
starts flat and ends straight C) Stroking up with 
even pressure 
Ceramics 
Finding One’s Way 
With Clay 
Paulus Berensohn 
1972; 158 pp. 
$7 95 postpaid from: 
Simon & Schuster 
Rockefeller Center 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10020 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
thrown separately. 
[Suggested by Jon Kaplan] 
Stem cup. Chinese (Hsuan-Te period). 
1426-1435. 
Porcelain with fish design in copper-red, height 3-5/8" 
(8.5 cm). Victoria 
& Albert Museum, London 
(Crown Copyright). 
A pedestal foot is usually 
Pablo Picasso, France. 
Centaur. 
1950. Terra cotta, with 
painted design, height 17"" (42.5 cm). Courtesy the 
Arts Council of Great Britain, London. 
= 
Rolf Overberg, Germany. 
Fruit. Wheel-thrown and 
altered spheres with green and rust ash glazes on a dark 
manganese body, wood-fired to cone 6; height 6"" (15 
cm). The slabs with type set in relief increase the 
tactile quality of these objects. 
This book contains a very brief coverage of technical 
information about clay, then more detailed sections on 
building, throwing and decorating techniques. 
There is 
an especially good section on glazes and glaze calculation, 
also a detailed chapter on the professional potter, includ- 
ing much about industrial methods, and a section about 
studio equipment. 
There is a sampling of recipes in the 
back, and a really good variety of photographs through- 
out. 
This book provides a good way for a beginner to 
get a.sense of how many possibilities there are. 
—Mary Law 
Ceramics 
(A Potter’s Handbook) 
Glenn C. Nelson 
1960, 1978; 339 pp. 
$1 5.95 postpaid from: 
Holt, Rinehart 
and Winston 
383 Madison Avenue 
New York, NY 10017 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
