i 
COME-ALONG ~— It's surprising how often this thing 
gets used if you’re living in'the country. 
Lifting engines, 
“battening down,” unstucking cars in the mud, dragging 
loads into trucks, straightening sagging sheds, stretching 
fence, moving things over just a little ... 
AUTO-PUNCH — Instead of having to beat on this punch 
with a hammer, you just press it. The smite is adjustable, 
making it ideal for fine work and sheet metal layout. 
(Brookstone) 
For many people, the biggest problem with tools is 
keeping them together. That was our problem too 
for awhile, especially at an alternative high school 
where there were always a number of young people 
who didn’t yet see that tools are in a different cate- 
gory than other possessions. Our answer has been to 
take the time to try and give people a good feeling 
about tools being extensions of their own hands, and 
that tools are the means to getting good shelter and 
other desirable results. A French poet (whose name | 
regrettably can’t remember) said, ‘Hammers spend a 
lot of time sleeping. 
. .’’ We like to see the tools at 
work. We show people how to use the tools and 
encourage them to in turn show still others how. 
Having good tools in the hand, together with that 
tasty feeling that comes from teaching somebody else, 
gives the tool borrowers a respect for the whole bit. 
We also have all the tools marked with a colored 
stripe. This not only reduces arguments on job sites 
where lots of people’s tools are at work, but it makes 
it easy for people of good heart to return strays. We 
put out the word: ‘Bring a blue stripe tool to break- 
fast’’ and we round ‘em up. We also ask that tools 
be brought back at sundown unless needed that night. 
There’s a place to bring them back to. This is essential. 
A casual pig-pen shop just can’t keep its tools because 
there “‘isn’t any there, there.” As an experiment, we 
abandoned our collapsed old bureau toolbox and 
bought a (freight damaged) Sears (the best for the 
money) rolling mechanics tool chest like you see in 
big auto shops. We segregated the tools by function 
and labeled the drawers. The result is that tools are 
easily looked over and selected and just as easily put 
to bed. To our great surprise, we found that this 
chest caused a drastic increase in the number of tools 
being used and a similar increase in action. We even 
found that we were using our own tools more! The 
neat storage made it easy to see who was missing, but 
people brought them back much more reliably than 
before anyway. The chest can be locked to control 
unannounced borrowing which is always a disaster. 
The overall effect has been that under very poor risk 
conditions, both sociological and physical, we've only 
lost about $50.00 worth of tools in 7 years! And 
this without having to get too heavy or “high school 
shoppish’’ about things. 
In case you wondered, we 
did try the toolboard-on-the-wall. 
It didn’t work, and 
nobody we know that’s tried it has made it work 
either, though it is nice to see all those tools hangin’. 
It has not been necessary to sentence anyone to being 
tool crib librarian either. We'll admit that it takes 
some time to develop tool-consciousness in a crew, 
but it can be done, and peaceably. The tools spend a 
lot less time sleeping too. 
Making a deliberate effort to raise your own tool con- 
sciousness can result in some interesting new possibilities 
in your life. As with most mysterious-appearing 
phenomena, a bit of learning soon clears things up 
and you wonder what had been previously keeping 
you from doing your own repairs and thing-making. 
MILLERS FALLS HACKSAW No. 300 — Lever makes 
blades super-tight in seconds without diddling little wing- 
nuts. 
Blades last longer, and you can change blade type 
and position easily too (and thus do) and things go 
much better. 
(Silvo No. 300-M18) 
WHITNEY PUNCH — A fine punch set that can handle 
heavy leather and sheetmetal. We use it a lot in conjunc- 
tion with the Popriveter. 
(U.S. General No. 600-8500) 
Sometimes all it takes is a different point of view. 
I‘ve remarked that tools are extensions of your hands. 
No mystery there; a hammer is just a hard fist; a 
screwdriver, a tough fingernail. But hands usually 
operate according to instructions from head, so it 
can also be said that tools are an extension of your 
mind. 
Looked at this way, the big (expensive) 
mechanic's cabinet with all the tools of similar 
function stored together with high visibility becomes 
even easier to justify. 
| find it is effective to store 
the tools by function rather than by name because 
this is the most useful way to think of the best tool 
when you are selecting. 
Hitters, grabbers, slashers, 
abraders — regardless of what they are called, are 
there in their places. You take your pick. Often, 
just looking at them will give you a better idea not 
only of what tool to use, but how to do the job or 
how to design the object. That’s a big advantage of 
the neat toolbox. 
If the tools are ‘somewhere out 
on the back porch or maybe in the back seat of the 
VW” then your mind is deflected from creative 
thinking into a hunting mode, and the aggravation 
can easily cause you to lose your ability to get 
things done. 
Easily accessible, functionally sorted tools also give 
you a ready familiarity with the tools you have. 
This has two effects. 
First is that as you get to know 
your tools, you gain the easy fluid motions that go 
with using them. You're not afraid of them any more, 
though respect is increased. 
This makes you able to 
work faster with less fatigue just as good form in 
sports often makes a big difference. 
It makes you 
safer too. Safety is also enhanced by having the tools 
where you can easily inspect them for condition, 
sharpness and rust. We have found that safety is 
largely a matter of attitude. The closer tools are to 
being a working extension of your mind, the safer 
you'll be. Self-preservation. 
The second effect is that you get to “’know’”’ all the 
tools you own without having to consciously think 
about it. This makes it simple to round up strays, 
of course, and it’s easier to see where there are 
annoying gaps in your capabilities (‘we don’t have 
a lightweight mallet’). More importantly, you begin 
to think in terms of the tools you have. The even- 
tual result is that you and your entire toolbox and 
shop become a big, complex tool with many possi- 
bilities. You begin to sense what you can do to- 
gether. Buying tools with overall flexibility of 
purpose in mind keeps you from falling into the trap 
of building a one-function capability with accom- 
panying tendency to conservatively fossilize your 
creativity. This tendency is strengthened as the value 
of the tools rises, which is the main reason society 
doesn’t get fast response to its changing needs from 
large corporations who have sunk enormous capital 
into shops that make that only. Like fat cars. Once 
in that position, it’s difficult to evolve at all, let alone 
without damage or drastic change of form. 
Piatra 
ye 
vials 
ob) 
.0) 
8 
6) 
Riage 
S10) 
Sip 
Se 
om 
66 
8 8 ¢ 
6) 
6 e060 
6 6 6» 
6-6 
e006 
SOFT TECHNOLOGY 
GOOD TOOLS 
NEEDLENOSE PLIERS WITH SPRING (left) — the 
spring and delicate jaw shape permits very delicate 
nabbing. 
You can actually pick up a live ant without 
damaging it (physically, anyway). 
(Klein, p. 137) 
IMPACT DRIVER (right) — This works like those air 
operated tire wrenches in garages except the power in 
this case is your hand. This tool is often the only 
practical way to loosen rusted screws and bolts on older 
machines. Wear goggles and gloves while using. Comes 
with several different bits and can be used with air drive 
socket wrench sockets too. (Craftsman No.9 GT 47634) 
So you begin to build your tool capability into the 
way you think about making things. As anyone 
who makes lots of stuff will tell you, the tools soon 
become sort of an automatic part of the design pro- 
cess. 
Beginners worry too much about skill and 
safety, rather like new drivers worry most about 
jerking the clutch when learning to drive a stick shift. 
It doesn’t take long before more serious aspects take 
over, and the manipulation problems fade out. 
But 
tools can’t become part of your design process if you 
don’t know what is available and what the various 
tools do. 
In addition to buying tools that | find use- 
ful, | spend some time reading catalogs so as to be- 
come familiar with tools that | can’t afford or don’t 
need at the time. Tool catalogs such as Silvo (p. 144) 
are rather like my cabinet in appearance so | find it 
Painless to sort of automatically file the information 
away in the back room somewhere. Tool dictionaries, 
especially of older tools, are helpful too. 
Some of you are saying about now, “‘Who wants to 
get into it that far anyway?” 
Friends, there are 
advantages. Obviously, making or repairing things 
yourself can save you money and time. 
Well, maybe 
it isn’t so obvious. 
Example: next time your car 
breaks down, find out how many hours it will 
likely take to fix it. You don't have the time, right? 
OK, how many hours will you have to work at some 
job so you can pay that mechanic? 
For many of 
you, the hours you have to work to pay the mechanic 
will be more than the job would take if you did it 
yourself. Moreover, you don't have to pay your- 
self, and the job can be done to your standards and 
at your convenience. 
If you don’t have the skills or 
the tools, that’s what we're talking about! 
Doing it 
© le) oye) e)\6)-a\ 0 fe, 6 16, 6) 0.6 68 (80S) Oe 
Sh.eyinl wre ea 
ew 6 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
A friend of mine was sitting at the kitchen table 
one day thinking about how all cocks are different 
and they’re all the same when suddenly she was 
someplace else and could see everything and knew 
everything and it was very fine. (This was before 
she’d taken acid and when she took acid later she 
was disappointed because she thought it would be 
like that and it wasn’t.) She didn’t know how long 
she was gone but it seemed like forever. Since 
then, when she starts to think about how things 
are the same and things are different at the same 
time, sometimes she feels that it might happen 
again and stops thinking because she thinks she 
might not come back. 
She hardly ever talks to people about it because 
either they haven’t had the experience and they 
don’t believe her or they have had the experience 
“and all we can do is smile at each other and say 
‘when you know, you know.’ ” 
; 
Pl 
we ZZ 
139 
