ifs 
Sermon |: 
Local Dependency 
“Self-sufficiency” is an idea which has done more 
harm than good. On close conceptual examination 
it is flawed at the root. More importantly, it 
works badly in practice. 
Anyone who has actually tried to live in total self- 
sufficiency — there must be now thousands in 
the recent wave that we (culpa!) helped inspire — 
knows the mind-numbing labor and loneliness and 
frustration and real marginless hazard that goes 
with the attempt. It is a kind of hysteria. 
The trouble is that self-sufficiency looks good 
and tastes good and gets swallowed whole — clear 
down into one’s premise structure, where it 
becomes a design guideline. When a problem 
comes up, we check the various solution alterna- 
tives against the criterion of whether this solu- 
tion will help make us more self-sufficient. And 
each time we make a mistake. 
Because: self-sufficiency is not to be had on any 
terms, ever. It isa charming woodsy extension of 
the fatal American mania for privacy. “I don’t need 
you. I don’t need anybody. I! am self-sufficient.” 
It is a damned lie. There is no dissectable self. 
Ever since there were two organisms life has been 
a matter of co-evolution, life growing ever more 
richly on life. Any “‘self” is strictly a term of 
convenience for one’s mildly discontinuous local 
set of body and mood considerations. Any 
“privacy” is a temporary incremental respite 
from the big dance. I cherish privacy, even live 
alone, so it’s a bit of a jump to realize how 
unbasic it is. 
Now our poor rich nation wants energy self- 
sufficiency — a stupid chimera. We nations all 
are in total dependency on systems which have 
no respect for national boundaries — atmosphere, 
oceans, ocean life, biotic provinces and our daily 
Sun, without which nothing. Cultural flow, 
language, economic flow — this stuff slows up at 
national boundaries and probably should, but it 
never stops. To refute George Washington, “‘Life 
IS entangling alliances.” 
So where does this come out for one’s premise 
structure, design guidelines, and such? It would 
seem that the more fundamental statement is one 
of dependency. We can ask what kinds of depen- 
dency we prefer, but that’s our only choice. 
For example, is it preferable to be dependent on 
institutions we don’t know, and which don’t know 
us, or on people, other organisms, and natural 
forces that we do know? 
.. 
. local dependency. 
I’m betting that abandonment of illusions of self- 
sufficiency will free us to accept and enjoy local 
dependency, by preference. 
And since our world is increasingly cultural, and 
proportionally ever less physical, the meaning of 
“local” is not geographic, at least not only.* 
—SB 
*On re-reading this rant, written in 1976, it occurs to 
me that the worthy part of the idea of self-sufficiency is 
better called self-reliance. That term has the responsi- 
bility and the pride, but it’s not hermetically sealed. 
Sermon 2: 
“Voluntary Simplicity” 
... has become a buzzword of late, but it goes 
back a ways. Thoreau called it ‘voluntary 
poverty” in Walden.* Around 1936 an admirer of 
Gandhi named Richard Gregg wrote an influential 
article called ““Voluntary Simplicity,” about the 
healthy balancing of inward and outward life.+ 
In 1976 SRI International, the behemoth think 
tank near Stanford University in California, came 
out with a Business Intelligence Report which 
asserted that ““Voluntary Simplicity” was the wave 
of the future in the American marketplace. 
Authors Arnold Mitchell and Duane Elgin advised 
the businessmen to get ready for buyers who 
wanted fewer things and better ones. § 
Now, in the summer of 1980, the Wall St. Journal 
has page-one articles reporting that shoppers are 
responding to recession and inflation by buying 
only quality goods, much of it of the do-it-yourself 
sort — hardware, gardening implements, and such. 
Meanwhile environmentalists and other do-gooders 
have been talking up Voluntary Simplicity as the 
benign way to redress the wealth inequities and 
exploitive practices of American mega-consump- 
tion. (Personally I don’t like the term or the 
argument. I’m more comfortable with the idea of 
“tight livelihood,” which is one of the folds of 
the Buddhist Eight-fold Path to enlightenment. 
It’s less of an exhortation than an observation — 
greedy behavior makes a sour life. The idealism of 
“Voluntary Simplicity” is okay I suppose, but it 
obscures what I find far more interesting — the 
sheer practicality of the exercise. 
Living below your means is a cheap way to be 
rich. It’s the only easy way to be rich. 
If you don’t want much and don’t get much, you 
can nearly always get whatever you want. 
We’re talking about quality, the kind of quality 
that money would like to buy. Few enough things 
to have fine ones and take good care of them. 
Time to do your work well enough to be proud of 
it. Time for an occasional original idea and time 
to follow it. Time for community. 
And here’s an odd corollary I discovered when 
invited by chance to a motley gathering of Adiron- 
dack guideboat builders in upper New York state. 
The guideboat is considered the Stradivarius of 
boatbuilding. The meeting was at a palatial lake- 
side estate into which the wood surgeons fit 
energetically. Motley as they were, they were used 
to such surroundings, it turned out, because if 
you do something at all well the rich will court 
your company far more than they will someone 
who has merely money. 
There’s a couple of hazards in Voluntary Sim- 
plicity. One is arrogance. Another is success 
(artistic, commercial, personal) which leads to 
temptations which lead back again to Involuntary 
Complexity — too much going on to do anything 
right. The worst is doing it because someone 
said to. 
—SB 
The gods are those who either have money 
or do not want it. 
—Samuel Butler 
*“Most of the luxuries, and many of the so called 
comforts of life, are not only not indispensable, but 
positive hinderances to the elevation of mankind. With 
respect to luxuries and comforts, the wisest have ever 
lived a more simple and meager life than the poor. The 
ancient philosophers, Chinese, Hindoo, Persian, and 
Greek, were a class than which none has been poorer in 
outward riches, none so rich in inward. We know not 
much about them. It is remarkable that we know so 
much of them as we do. The same is true of the more 
modern reformers and benefactors of their race. None 
can be an impartial or wise observer of human life but 
from the vantage ground of what we shall call 
voluntary poverty.” 
—Walden 
+ Reprinted in Manas (see our p. 516.) 4 September 
1974 and in CoEvolution Quarterly, Summer 1977. 
§“Voluntary Simplicity,’ Duane Elgin and Arnold 
Mitchell, CoEvolution Quarterly, Summer 1977, pp. 4-19. 
ST 
Living on the Earth 
The original book on how to be a hippie by one of the 
original hippies. (Both meanings of “original” — “early” 
and “creative.”) A classic of fundamental funk tech- 
nique, astonishingly undated. 
Living on the Earth 
(Celebrations, Storm 
Warnings, Formulas, 
Recipes, Rumors and 
Country Dances) 
Alicia Bay Laurel 
1970; 214 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
Random House 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
ee 
How to Cut Your Own or Anybody Else’s Hair 
If you want to go the next step beyond the self-adminis- 
tered razor trim to a real hair cut, with scissors, this book 
js just about all youll need. 
I’ve been cutting my own 
hair for a few years now (admittedly harder than cutting 
someone else’s) 
and have turned 
out a creditable 
job every time. | 
learned how from 
this extremely 
clear, well illus- 
trated, and 
cheaper-than-a- 
single-profession- 
al-haircut book. 
—Donald Ryan 
Comb the hair straight 
out and cut it on an 
angle conforming to the 
shape of the head. Do 
this all the way to the 
center of the back 
of the head. 
How to Cut Your 
Own or Anybody 
Else’s Hair 
Bob Bent 
1975; 126 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid from: 
Simon and Schuster 
Attn: Order Department 
1230 Avenue of 
the Americas 
New York, NY 10020 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Hairtrimmers 
Quickest and cheapest of all haircuts. Compact enough 
to live in a backpack. So simple you can do it yourself 
— wet your hair a bit, chop at it with the wide or narrow 
side, depending. Double-edged razor blades within 
are replaceable. 
—SB 
Hairtrimmers 
$1 (approx.) 
Manufactured by: 
Gold Coast Company 
Los Angeles, CA 
Check your local 
pharmacy. 
