Ladies’ Home Journal Art of Homemaking 
Comprehensive reference for those whose mothers never 
taught them. 
Its focus is on staying organized behind a 
myriad of household chores; its strongest point that it 
covers care of current fabrics, furniture, and appliances 
mother never heard of. It gives concise how-to instruc- 
tions for every imaginable routine, and then encourages 
you not to be too compulsive — an attractive paradox. 
—Diana Barich 
Ladies’ Home Journal 
Art of Homemaking 
Virginia T. Habeeb 
1973, 1978; 588 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid from: 
Simon & Schuster 
Attn: Order Department 
1230 Avenue of 
the Americas 
New York, NY 10020 
e 
+ 
Avoid the use of chrome near the seashore, as salty air is 
apt to corrode it. Stainless steel is a more durable material 
and will not corrode. To clean it, use a little ammonia 
and water, a spray glass cleaner, or a special stainless 
steel cleaner. 
Tip: Leftover carbonated water or club soda is excellent 
for cleaning chrome and stainless steel. We learned this 
trick from a friendly bartender! 
e 
WHEN YOU USE A CLOTHESLINE 
Despite the increased popularity in the use of automatic 
dryers, many still prefer to use the clothesline, or if they 
don't prefer it, they are doing it out of necessity. While it 
is harder to lug the laundry to the clothesline, drying out 
of doors does give clothes a lovely fresh smell. An indoor 
line is also necessary for those bad-weather days. 
If you 
don't have an area where you can leave the line up at all 
times consider one of those indoor retractable types. 
Hang it in a spare room or bathroom. 
To hang sheets, fold them double, hem to hem. Turn 
about three or four inches over the line and pin, or fold 
in half if that is easier for you (make sure the pins are 
snag free and clean). Run your fingers down the selvage 
edges to make sure they are smooth. 
If you hang them 
this way, sheets will dry evenly and will be easier to iron. 
As a matter of fact, they may well be smooth enough so 
that ironing is unnecessary if you fold while faintly damp 
(only enough to feel coolish to the touch). 
If they are 
permanent press sheets, then your ironing worries are over! 
To hang men’s shirts, first fold double by bringing the 
two shirt fronts together, then hang by the tail, folding 
three or four inches over the line. Pin at the ends. 
We like to hang permanent-press shirts on hangers for dry- 
ing. Secure the hangers to outdoor lines with clothespins. 
To hang towels, fold either one third or double over the 
line. Shake them vigorously, to restore softness and 
fluffiness. Never hang by one corner. 
DN 
Mend It! 
House on p. 294) is reprinted from the IPM Practitioner (p. 106). 
“A cockroach is always wrong when arguing with a chicken.” 
—Old Spanish proverb 
Ecological Cockroach Management 
by William Olkowski, Helga Olkowski, Linda Laub 
A simple view of the world pits humans and insects in a war for the 
Earth. The major weapon in the war is intelligence — the cerebral 
intelligence of humanity against the genetic intelligence of 
the insects. 
If intelligence is the ability to modify behavior as a result of experience 
and the cerebral vs. genetic biological mechanism is the test, we humans 
are not doing well at all. The cockroach battleground tells the story. 
At great cost we have invented numerous insecticides for use against 
roaches — to no avail. Insecticide treatments are regularly used in 
kitchens, basements, bathrooms, restaurants, theaters, buses, trains, 
schools, hospitals, etc., throughout the nation. At best, what is gained 
is only temporary relief. The eventual result is the presence of roaches 
and pesticides everywhere, from the grade school down the block to the 
congressional cafeterias. The introduced toxicants, which persist longer 
indoors than outdoors because of the lack of the principal degrading 
agent, ultraviolet light, are respired by humans along with the house- 
hold dust and other air pollutants. The effects upon the inhabitants are 
unknown, but could hardly be beneficial. 
The latest produced by cerebral intelligence (our side) is a decision- 
making process called Integrated Pest Management, or IPM. The follow- 
ing is a suggestion on how this process might be adopted to your own 
private and public battles with this ancient human cohabitant. 
The components that comprise an IPM program are basically not new. 
What is new is their integration and application. A cockroach IPM 
program begins with correct species identification and biological 
knowledge of the pest. Other components include: easy-to-use monitor- 
ing techniques, habitat modification, and the safest, most effective 
chemical tool, if necessary. Together, they make up the IPM program. 
No single element alone is likely to produce useful long-term results. 
COCKROACH BIOLOGY 
Cc 
OCKROACHES HAVE CHANGED 
burrows, and ant and termite nests, as well as more 
: 
é 
: 
rae 
familiar places. 
little since their beginnings in the Devon- 
ian period of the Paleozoic era 400 million 
years ago. In the world today, there are more than 
3,500 species, 57 of them in the United States. As 
many as 4,000 additional species are still unde- 
scribed. Cockroaches, which are closely related 
to termites, are found in caves, mines, animal 
Hand washers 
Not many people these days know how to darn a hole in 
a sock, reverse a collar, let down a hem, or any of the 
everyday necessary skills my mother and grandmothers 
had to use to keep their families decently clothed on 
almost no money. 
|‘m convinced that we are again going 
to have to make clothes /ast longer, and more and more 
folks will be wondering how to go about it. Mending, 
darning, patching, remaking by hand and machine 
methods, all those thrifty lessons and more are covered 
in this guide. For oncea book lives up to its claim to 
be complete. 
—Evelyn Eldridge-Diaz 
Mend It! 
(A Complete Guide 
to Clothes Repair) 
Maureen Goldsworthy 
1979; 127 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid from: 
Stein and Day, Publishers 
Scarborough House 
Briarcliff Manor, NY 10510 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
The Felled Patch 
This is also known as the Calico Patch. 
\t is used on 
plain fabrics where great firmness is needed. 
1. Cut the patch large enough to cover not only the hole, 
but also any thin area around it, and allow 3/8 in. all 
round for turnings. Fold the turnings to the right side of 
the patch and press. 
A beautiful washing machine is made out of using a 
than yours?”’ 
“plumber’s helper’’ — pumping it up and down in any 
sudsy laundry container from bucket to bathtub. 
—Norman Soloman 
Berkeley, California 
We asked Dale Fritz, a Peace Corps agricultural specialist 
and former Volunteer for Technical Assistance (VITA), 
who has years of experience overseas. 
As it turned out, Fritz himself is the father of a simple 
hand-operated washing machine that has been featured 
for years in the Village Technology Handbook (our 
p. 180). “What is the operating principle of the machine?” 
we asked Fritz. 
Understanding conquers all, even the indomitable cockroach. This article b yy the Olkowskis (see their Integral Urban 
Of all these species of cockroach, only four are 
considered significantly pestiferous. These are 
the German cockroach, Blattella germanica 
(Linnaeus), the brown-banded, Supella longipalpa 
(Fabricius), the oriental, Blatta orientalis (Linnaeus), 
and the American, Periplaneta americana 
—SB 
American cockroach. 
In the middle 
is a fully developed insect. The 
females of this species are winged. 
‘Well,’’ we asked, “if that is the principle, are there any 
other solutions to the washing problem that are simpler 
“Sure,”’ he said. ‘If you have a vehicle, throw your 
clothes into some kind of a closed container — like a milk 
can — add soap and hot water and put the container 
onto the back of your machine. 
Leave it there all day as 
you make your rounds — preferably over the roughest 
available roads — and when you get back in the evening 
you'll have a load of clean clothes.” 
That method has been used by bachelor ranchers in the 
western United States for years. 
—Volunteer Magazine 
published by the Peace Corps (1970) 
————— 
James clothes washer 
“Agitation, just agitation,” he replied. 
“You could take a stick and stand there and stir it,” 
he added, “‘It’s just the motion of the water. The clothes 
don’t even have to move at all . 
. 
. It’s just the water 
moving back and forth through the clothing that does 
the cleaning. The soap breaks down the dirt; and the 
water carries it away.” 
legs look flimsy. 
—— 
$99.45 plus shipping 
2. Place the patch wrong side up on the wrong side of 
James clothes wringer 
the garment, exactly matching the direction of warp and 
$48.95 plus shipping 
weft threads. Tack in place. Fell by picking up only a 
thread or two of the garment, but taking a longer stitch 
through the fold of the patch. A stitch should fall at 
each corner. 
3. Turn over to the right side. Cut away the fabric inside 
the patch to a width of 5/8 in. from the stitching. 
$1 postpaid 
all from: 
RR No. 1 
4. Clip 1/4 in. into each corner, fold under the raw edges, 
Box 57 
press, and fell. 
Topeka, IN 46571 
James clothes washer 
Information on both 
S & H Metal Products 
1 don’t know anybody who’s used one of these. 
It looks 
like it would do the job. May need ali ttle bracing, the 
—SB 
[Suggested by Reed Plankenhorn] 
