. 
; 
i 
eR 
me 
A 
a 
The Most Unusual Letter 
We’ve Ever Received 
by Carol Van Strum 
Sirs: 
Your article on the Hoedads (p. 85) reminds me 
of my own extraordinary experience with these 
remarkable workers — and with the fuzzy boun- 
dary between “‘eality”’ and illusion. 
For twenty-five years I worked as a librarian at 
the university. After my husband left to live with 
one of his students twelve years ago I began 
exploring all the areas I had never ventured into 
for fear of intruding in his domain or inspiring 
his ridicule. I took up music again where I had 
dropped it at our marriage and joined a small 
chamber group. I adopted a cat. I bought buckets 
of white latex and painted the dark paneling of 
our house. I filled the trash bins with phony 
pre-columbian dolls and useless colonial hinges 
and latches. I sold all the Herman Hesse and Carl 
Jung. Not a particularly adventurous life, but 
comfortable and ordered. 
One remnant I kept of our life together was the 
collection of children’s books we had begun when 
we were expecting our first and only child. After 
the baby died we had kept it up in a mechanical 
sort of way, pretending there would be other 
children some day. To my husband it was another 
collection, to be made as impressive as possible; 
it embarrassed him that I actually enjoyed reading 
the books. After he left I continued to add to the 
collection and began writing about the books. I 
was asked occasionally to lecture on the subject. 
Once or twice a year I still enjoy traveling and 
speaking to college students. They are a respon- 
sive audience; it affords them some comic relief, 
no coubt, to hear the Babar books presented 
as Utopian novels. 
One lecture last winter was in Oregon. There had 
been a pleasant, if somewhat ordinary, dinner 
at the home of a professor of communications 
theory. The lecture — “Children’s Literature, 
A Place on the Shelf’’ — had gone well. The 
weather was dreadful, as usual. Afterward I rented 
a car to drive out to a motel on the coast at 
Florence, where a year ago I had spent a pleasant 
weekend with a violinist friend. My throat had 
been sore after the lecture, but I attributed that to 
the speaking and the communications professor’s 
dry wine. After an hour or so of driving, however, 
my back became unbearably painful; my neck 
was stiff, my head throbbing, my eyes burning 
and streaming as if from hay fever. My clothes 
were damp with sweat, and I began to shake 
uncontrollably. What a time to come down with 
flu. The rain beat on the car. I had driven so long 
without seeing lights I worried I had taken a wrong 
turn. I became truly frightened when I realized 
that the road was now unpaved; a pitted gravel 
track, it bumped and wound through an endless 
forest of dripping trees, up and down steep grades 
and switchbacks. 
In panic, I drove on, fevered, 
afraid to stop. It must go somewhere, it must go 
somewhere, I told myself. The first light I see I'l 
stop. Strange figures waved and stumbled in my 
headlights, dwindling into stumps and shrubs 
as I passed. 
Finally, miraculously, there was a light. A yard 
light, a driveway, a pen of ducks with a small pond 
and a shelter. A neatly trimmed hedge, a lawn, a 
well-pruned rose garden, bare now in the winter 
storm. And a house — a cottage it would be called 
in England — a mossy stone house with broad 
chimneys and a slate roof. I sat and stared 
through the windshield. A slate roof? In Oregon? 
My head buzzed. A dog barked. The ducks in 
their shelter lifted their heads from their wings 
and stared into the headlights with small eyes. 
A light flashed on in one window. I felt a great 
wave of relief and opened the car door. My legs 
were so weak I could barely command the strength 
to get out of the car. I staggered to the house. 
The door opened as I fumbled for the bell, and 
someone caught me as I fell. 
“Who is it, dear?” 
“JT don’t know. But help me bring her in. 
She’s sick.” 
“My god, she’s soaked.” 
“And burning with fever. Here, in the spare 
room...” 
Warm, gentle hands undressed me. The cool 
sheets were a shock. 
‘Here, a warm towel for her back. There. And 
a wet cloth for her head. How awful, she must 
have got lost, so sick and in this storm...” 
“You stay with her, dear, while I fix some broth 
and tea. We'll get something warm into her...” 
I tried without success to open my eyes, to see 
this benevolent couple who ministered to me, 
bringing quilts and holding my head to trickle 
warm liquids down my aching throat. I sank into 
the comfortable mattress. The fever heat spread 
to the bedding, and I slept. 
I woke later in a spasm of chills and trembling. 
A shawled figure rocked softly in a rocking chair 
by the bed, her face in shadow. A candle flickered 
on a small stool next to a still-steaming cup. The 
light flashed and blotted on the backs of books 
that lined the room; shelf upon shelf of books, 
broken only by the windows and the door. Most 
astonishing, at least half of them were children’s 
books, mixed at random among an untidy collec- 
tion of great literature. On top of one shelf a 
stuffed figure — Piglet perhaps — lay on a dusty 
violin case. I lay and stared in surprise and delight 
at meeting old friends in the wilderness. The 
shawled figure rose and placed a cool hand 
on my forehead. 
“Are you amazed at the books?’’ Her voice was 
soft, as if afraid of waking someone. “They were 
our son’s. He was killed in Vietnam six years 
ago. He kept all his favorites for his own children. 
Now of course there will be no children, but we 
keep the books...” 
I stared at the books, ponderously sorting this 
information. Many of them had been published 
in the last six years; so they continued to collect 
them, too. A son. I tried to speak, to tell her 
of my own son, whom I had held but once in his 
brief lifetime. So alive and perfect a thing to 
lose. But to have raised him through the colic, 
the teething, the Christmases, the fears of the 
dark, to have built the person who shared this 
house, these books — I sobbed and the woman 
comforted me, wiping my forehead with a cloth. 
I slept again. 
Later, the smell of tobacco smoke wakened me. 
The husband sat in the rocking chair now, reading 
by the candlelight. He brought me more tea and 
moistened the cloth on my forehead again. 
“Does the smoke bother you?” 
I shook my head. I actually liked the smoke; 
there was something reassuring about it. I tried 
to tell him how grateful I was to them, how lucky 
I had been to find their house. 
“You like it? We built it ourselves. Long ago 
we saw a house like this in Dearborn. And old 
Cotswold cottage and smithy that Henry Ford 
imported stone by stone from England. He even 
imported the workers to assemble it. When we 
A real person, Carol Van Strum lives over a ridge from 
Tidewater, Oregon amid a swarm of animals and kids. 
She wrote the treatise on home teaching on p. 568. 
This letter to CoEvolution in 1977 opened the way to 
her becoming a Learning evaluator for Whole Earth. 
—SB 
finally came to build our own house we modeled 
it on our memory of that place. We did all the 
work ourselves, and we ordered seeds from Eng- 
land to plant here. We had hoped to clear more 
land and farm it, but now we’re getting old...” 
He sat, rocking and smoking, staring at the careful 
woodwork of the beams and window frames. All 
night I woke and slept, and always he or his wife 
was there, ready with a drink, a towel, a word of 
comfort. 
It was along night. I woke at last to 
shafts of sunlight pouring through trees whose 
tops soared and vanished in mist outside the win- 
dow. The room brightened as the mist lifted, and 
suddenly the room — the house, too, and forest — 
boomed with the opening of Bach’s Magnificat. 
I was too feverish now to be surprised. I lay awash 
in sweat and music. 
“Do you mind the music?” the woman bent over 
my head. ‘“‘Ourson was a musician. This was a 
favorite piece of his. If it bothers you, though, we 
needn’t play it this morning...” 
I tried to smile, to tell her how perfect it was. 
She moved into the next room and stood by the 
window with her husband, silhouetted against the 
mist and sunlight. This must be the way they 
begin their day, I realised. 
The voices began, each clearer than the last. 
The walls receded and the ceiling soared in a 
succession of vaults. In tier upon tier of galleries 
the singers stood, and I recognized them all. 
Wordsworth with an armful of flowers. Coleridge 
looking guilty about something. Shakespeare, 
Huxley, Beatrix Potter with a hedgehog in a 
wicker cage. Joyce, the Brothers Grimm, Ola 
and Blacken. Harold drawing windows on the wall 
with a purple crayon. The Frog Prince, Hans 
Andersen, Homer, Euripides, Marx, Frog and Toad 
hunting for buttons. Brecht and Little Bear arm 
in arm, wearing fur hats. Faulkner, Sam Pig, 
Walter Mitty, Peter Rabbit, Virgil, Lassie. B.F. 
Skinner launched Gayneck from outstretched 
hands; the bird soared in circles, higher and higher, 
past more and more singers. The Swallows and 
Amazons with a jug slung over an oar. Lucretius, 
Richard Scarry, Hugo and Josephine. In a row on 
a railing stood the little folk, Arrietty and Spiller 
holding hands, Stuart Little, Josephine the Singer, 
the schoolmaster with his people from Mistress 
Masham’s Repose, Nils astride Morten Goosie- 
Gander, Thumbelina, Tom Thumb, Mopsa the 
Fairy, Peter Peabody Pepperell III and Gus the gull. 
The faces and the music were all so clear. Ishi 
stood alone. Melville, Tin-tin and Snowy, Farley 
Mowat, Pogo, Dido and Simon, Huck Finn, 
Marcuse, Voltaire, Eloise, Mike Mulligan. The 
Bastables shifted uneasily on their feet — peas 
in their shoes again, perhaps. Rabelais, the Tin 
Woodman, Bertrand Russell. Laura and Pa with 
his fiddle. Thoreau, Henry Miller, Charlie Bucket, 
Ezra Pound, Dickens, Beckett, Whitman. Among 
them stood the animals singing too: Amos and 
Boris, Tracy’s Tiger, Freddy the Pig and Mrs. 
Wiggins, the lively little rabbit, the poky little 
puppy, Mrs. Oldknowe and the green deer, Babar 
and Zephir, Curious George, Pooh, Eeyore, Mr. 
and Mrs. Mallard, Ping, the Snow Goose, Nicholas 
Nye. In a corner next to Mrs. Malone a kid 
in a diamond-patterned sweater bent to tie a 
broken sneaker, The Tomten, Mr. Biswas, Johnny 
Tremain, Mowgli, Branwell and the Twelves, the 
White Knight, the Jumblies, Bambi, Max in his 
wolf suit, John Clare. Tasha Tudor with a baton 
led a band of singing Corgis. 
“Deposuit potentes de sede et exultavit humiles.” 
ES 
