oa 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
ECO-ETHICS 
An Ecological and Evolutionary Ethic 
The subject is right. 
The essays are bite-size one-pagers 
full of anecdote and pith. The author must be young, 
though well field-experienced in ecology, and a classroom 
veteran, and, ye gods, a hippie scientist. 
I’m so happy 
with his book | want to argue with him about details. 
Ethics used to be the point of philosophy and education. 
This unusual book can help restore that sensible practice. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Tom Pockat] 
An Ecological and 
Evolutionary Ethic 
Daniel G. Kozlovsky, 
Editor 
1974; 116 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
Prentice-Hall, Inc. 
Box 500 
Englewood Cliffs, 
NJ 07632 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Nothing is as ridiculous, as pathetic, as obscene as an 
organism out of context. 
There is no insurance so cheap and as easily drawn upon as 
human insurance, as the respect and concern and affection 
of your fellow man. 
Each time you buy an insurance policy you add to the 
deterioration of the social organism. 
e 
A cock crows under my bedroom window, a wild jungle call. 
We never bred it out, probably because it doesn’t affect 
laying capacity or meatiness. That crowing seems as wild 
and free and primitive as that of the northern Indian jungle 
fowl from which our domestic chickens are derived. Jungle 
under my window! ... 
For a thousand generations men woke to a crowing cock, had 
interjected into their subconscious lives that small part of 
jungle wildness. 
In a couple of generations we have excluded 
these cocks from town and barnyard, and even the farmer 
now wakes to an alarm clock. The human world is the poorer 
for it, but does not know that, cannot know that. 
Can you regain what you do not know you should have? 
e 
A scientific animism would consider the phylogenetic 
possibilities of animal empathy (you can stroke a mammal), 
not ignoring a lady | know whose pet Great Horned Owl 
understands her moods, is happy when she is happy, is down 
when she is down, and who (I use who instead of which; 
you would too if you knew the owl) tries to cheer her up by 
getting into some ridiculous mischief when she’s unhappy. 
A scientific animism would consider the multitudinous ways 
in which animals train you. 
s 
It also becomes clear that the organism-environment 
dichotomy is nonsense; all living things are open systems, 
constantly exchanging atoms with other systems, living 
and nonliving — there are no impermeable boundaries. 
Don’t be misled by that thick skin of yours; when you 
cease to exchange, eat, excrete, breathe, you're dead. 
The organism-environment comparison is fundamentally 
meaningless. The atoms are transients; what is environment 
today is organism tomorrow, what is organism tomorrow Is 
environment the next. 
We should be careful of what we dump into the environment, 
because, physically and psychologically, tomorrow it’s 
likely to be us. 
| see that the elementary laws never apologize 
.. 
. 
—Walt Whitman 
Should Trees Have Standing? 
Yes. 
* 
Read why 
in this splendid essay that swayed the Supreme 
Court. Ecological health is (sequentially) a biological, 
spiritual, moral, ethical, and, now, legal matter. 
Economic is next. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Bob Ornsteins 
Should Trees 
, 
Have Standing? 
(Toward Legal Rights 
for Natural Objects) 
Christopher D. Stone 
1972; 102 pp. 
$1 50 postpaid from: 
Avon Books 
Mail Order Department 
250 W. 55th Street 
New York, NY 10019 
uw 
COLOGY” HAS COME TO MEAN JUST ABOUT ANYTHING. Doom-gloom to the end-of-the- 
worlders. Mystical harmony to the religio-eco-freaks. Grants to the college crowd. The word 
comes from Greek: “Oikos” and “Logos”. “Oikos” means house, or dwelling-place. “Logos” 
primarily means discourse, or “word, thought or speech’. 
To the early Greeks, “logos” was the moving 
and regulating principle in things (associated with fire-energy), as well as the part of human nature that 
was able to see this ordering energy at work. 
Ecology, at its root and origin, means domestic chatter; talking about where-you-live; feeling out the 
household rules; remaining open and perceptive to the moving and regulating principle of your watershed 
and/or planet home. 
We take three approaches to the subject: 
Ecoscience 
/f you could save the world by throwing a book at it, 
this might be the book. 
(Actually the book that will do 
the saving will likely be called “‘Ecoreligion,” and be 
derived in part from this book.) Meant to be as compre- 
hensive an outline as possible (in a mere 1051 pages) of 
all that the young world-saver needs to know to find a 
—SB 
worthy task and surround it, the book succeeds. 
Ecoscience 
(Population, Resources, 
Environment) 
Paul R. Ehrlich, Anne H. 
Ehrlich, John P. Holdren 
1977; 1051 pp. 
$22 postpaid from: 
W.H. Freeman & Co. 
660 Market Street 
ba 
San Francisco, CA 94104 | @\ 
or Whole Earth 
Le 
Household Store 
Of the defects in the cornucopian argument, the gravest 
are these: 
1. The presumption that advanced technology will make 
- 
energy very cheap; 
2. The presumption that abundant, cheap energy — if 
available — would prove to be a sufficient condition for 
abundance of all kinds; 
3. The serious underestimation of the degree of environ- 
mental degradation that would be generated by the 
proposed cornucopian technologies; 
4. The even more serious underestimation of the 
impact on human well-being that major environmental 
disruption portends. 
® Making the household part of everyday discourse. Become intimate with the household and all its 
Human population growth plotted on a log-log scale. 
Plotted in this way, population growth is seen as occurring 
in three surges, associated with the cultural, agricultural, 
and industrial-medical revolutions. 
400-4 
The relationship of 
biomes to precipitation 
and temperature. The 
broken line encloses the 
range of values within 
which either grasses or 
woody plants may 
dominate, depending 
on local conditions. 
=P. 
rain forest 
y's." 
£07.9""np 
o 
AVERAGE 
ANNUAL 
PRECIPITATION 
(cm) 
100 
FE JY 
10 
5 
0 
5 
10 
AVERAGE ANNUAL TEMPERATURE ('C) 
TROPICAL — SUBTROPICAL — WARM TEMPERATE — COLD TEMPERATE — ARCTIC-ALPINE — 
30 
25 
20 
15 
Stalking the Wild Taboo 
Hardin has been stalking wild taboos for some time now. 
Abortion. 
Religion. Technology. Competition. 
The 
emphasis is on abortion and competition. Not your 
typical reading matter. 
Can make you angry at times. 
But that’s what taboos are all about. Printed on easy-to- 
read tan paper with brown ink. 
—Graham Holmboe 
[Suggested by Stephanie Miils] 
Stalking the 
ee 
Wild Taboo 
_— 
(Second Edition) 
Garrett Hardin 
1973, 1978; 284 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
William Kaufmann, Inc. 
1 First Street 
Los Altos, CA 94022 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
SOR 
BaEE 
e 
It is no answer to say that streams and forests cannot have 
standing because streams and forests cannot speak. 
Corporations cannot speak either; nor can states, estates, 
infants, incompetents, municipalities or universities. 
Lawyers speak for them, as they customarily do for the 
ordinary citizen with legal problems. 
9 
Wherever it carves out “property” rights, the legal system 
is engaged in the process of creating monetary worth. 
e 
“Rights’’ might well lie in unanticipated areas. 
It would 
seem, for example, that Chief Justice Warren was only 
stating the obvious when he observed in Reynolds vs. 
Sims that “legislators represent people, not trees or acres.” 
Yet, could not a case be made for a system of apportion- 
ment which did take into account the wildlife of an area? 
e 
Society does not need more children; but it does need 
more loved children. Quite literally, we cannot afford 
unloved children — but we pay heavily for them every 
day. There should be not the slightest communal concern 
when a woman elects to destroy the life of her thou- 
sandth-of-an-ounce embryo. But all society should rise 
up in alarm when it hears that a baby that is not wanted 
is about to be born. 
e 
| refer to the principle by a name — the “competitive 
exclusion principle,” or more briefly, the ‘“exclusion 
principle.” 
It may be briefly stated thus: Complete 
competitors cannot coexist . 
. 
. What does the exclusion 
principle mean? Roughly this: that (i) if two noninter- 
breeding populations ‘do the same thing’ — that is, 
occupy precisely the same ecological niche in Elton’s 
sense — and (ii) if they are ‘sympatric’ — that is, if 
they occupy the same geographic territory — and (iii) if 
population A multiplies even the least bit faster than 
population B, then ultimately A will completely displace 
B, which will become extinct. 
e 
: 
The General rule may be stated in either of two different 
ways: Complete competitors cannot coexist — as was said 
earlier; or, Eco/ogical differentiation is the necessary 
condition for coexistence. 
e 
The Cybernetics of Monopoly 
If a monopoly is produced, what then? Here is a question 
which Ricardo did not face. At first glance one might 
say that the monopoly price should be stable, because if 
it were to rise, new entrepreneurs would be attracted to 
the field and would lower the price. But this is a naive 
view. We know that it is more difficult to start a business 
than to continue one, and consequently a monopolist can 
maintain a price considerably above the “natural price.” 
Furthermore, a realistic model must include much more 
than we have indicated so far. We must consider the 
whole complex of phenomena that we include under the 
word “power.” Social power is a process with positive 
feedback. 
By innumerable strategems a monopolist will 
try to manipulate the machinery of society in such a way 
as to ward off all threats to re-establish negative feedback 
and a “natural” cybernetic equilibrium. And, as history 
shows, the monopolist in one field will seek to extend his 
power into others, without limit. 
