The Ecotopian Encyclopedia for the ‘80s 
/ prefer the title of its 1972 incarnation, Living Poor 
With Style, but since Callenbach is the author of the 
surprisingly influential visionary novel Ecotopia 
(reviewed on p. 378), it’s understandable he would try 
to theme-coordinate his oeuvre. 
(Will his Film Quarterly 
soon become Ecotopian Film Review?) 
Gossip aside, this completely rewritten and expanded 
encyclopedia is a wonderful book on how to be alive 
today. 
It has all in one place most of the lore that one 
spends one’s entire twenties and thirties picking up — 
all that fundamental stuff they don’t tell you in school 
and which the advertising media obscure. 
The nuts and 
bolts of enlightened self-interest. 
The cheap transpor- 
tation, housing, food, clothing, etc. which is better than 
most of the expensive stuff. How to get jobs, think 
about family, travel, learn skills. Kind of like the 
Whole Earth Catalog, maybe better. 
—SB 
The Ecotopian 
Encyclopedia 
for the Eighties 
(Based on Living 
Poor with Style) 
Ernest Callenbach 
1980; 352 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
And/Or Press 
Box 2246 
Berkeley, CA 94702 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
(Available Spring 1981) 
People planning to build a house themselves in the country 
often find it a good idea to live in a mobile home while 
they're doing it, and in town, if you plan to do a serious 
remodeling job, you might want to park a trailer in the 
driveway and live in it for the period when the house is 
totally torn up. Generally urban trailer ‘‘parks” are 
depressing places, however, though some of the new ones 
(which generally have only around 150 - 175 sites) have 
trees, green areas, and a spacious feel. Since many parks 
Provide a central recreation area where laundry, play 
grounds and other common facilities are located, they often 
generate quite a feeling of community. Traffic inside 
generally moves slowly (if road bumps aren't installed, they 
should be) and children are safer than on ordinary streets. 
Check out a possible park on a hot day, however; the 
expanses of asphalt and close proximity to other people's 
windows (and radios) can be hopeless disadvantages. 
Some parks are mainly inhabited by older people, or by 
very conservative folks. 
It is time for parks to be estab- 
lished to cater to other tastes as well: students, profes- 
sional couples. Such parks would generate a market for 
mobile homes with higher design standards. 
e 
Bartering is also a way of cementing friendships in a way 
that buying and selling things for cash somehow just 
doesn’t do. You don’t even necessarily have to get a 
return on an item right away. Some experienced barter- 
ers know that if they say, ‘Well, just take it now — 
you'll discover something you can give me for it,” they 
will seldom be disappointed. 
Barterers have to take each 
other’s tastes and personalities into account; they have 
to deal with each other as human beings. 
But the financial side is often gratifying too. 
If, for 
example, you go into a store to buy something new, 
you'll pay, let’s say, $50 for it. Plus maybe $3 in sales 
tax. But to get that $53, you probably had to earn about 
$75 (considering the impact of income tax). On the other 
hand, if you can find somebody who'll give you the item 
in barter, you ‘‘pay”’ for it with an item of yours on 
which you've already gone through the financial prelimi- 
naries; you are, so to speak, recycling your previous 
investment. So your effective outlay for the item you 
want is probably less than half of what it would be if 
you bought it new. (And, depending on how you value 
your time, it might be even less if you trade a service 
for an object.) 
One of the reasons to grow vegetables, or keep bees or 
chickens, is that they tend to provide you with more than 
you can use, so you have surpluses to use in bartering. 
That can be, in fact, half the fun. 
Barter: How to Get Anything from Automobiles to 
Vacations without Money, by Constance Stapleton and 
Phyllis Richman. Scribner, 1977. 
Let’s Try Barter, by Charles Morrow Wilson, 
Davin, 1980. 
S 
The best deals in housing are always gotten by word of 
mouth. You hear from relatives or friends that a good 
place is going to be vacant. Or you're talking to a store- 
keeper and he or she mentions that a relative has a place 
for rent. Give yourself as much time to look as possible, 
so you can take advantage of these informal leads. 
It 
takes weeks of steady looking to find anything you'll 
really like. 
On Getting by 
Without Money 
by Tom Duckworth 
Disassociation with the economic bag of any 
society is difficult unless you are very rich or a 
Trappist monk. This article is for those who have 
no savings, no inheritance, no trust funds and no 
desire to remain in a money-oriented rut (there are 
so many other ruts to explore). 
What I have to offer here is not all-inclusive — just 
merely information that I have acquired firsthand 
as my family (wife and 2 kids) and I have 
tripped along. 
When we first started on the trip, our first concern 
was food — a needless concern in this country 
— we went to the local grocery store and asked 
for the vegetable and fruit discards. Every day 
grocery stores — all of them — throw away about 
4 garbage cans full of edible food. Food that is 
“spotted,” “‘overripe,” “bruised,” or ugly, or 
dairy food on its “‘pull-date.” The quality and 
quantity of the throw-away food depends very 
much on the type of ownership of store and its 
clientele. One-man operations or family owned 
stores keep everything — chain operated stores 
throw away good food all the time. The easiest 
way to get vegetables from a store is to ask for 
them. Sometimes you score, sometimes not. 
The store I got vegetables from gave me enough 
to feed 31 people, 10 chickens and start a good 
compost pile — 2 - 3 boxes every day. Stores 
catering to the elite of this society have the most 
throwaways — no blemishes or bruises allowed — 
but they tend to be selfish with their garbage. 
Stores like Safeway, etc. are best bets. 
Another source of food is government food 
stamps. In San Francisco County, a person 
with no income is “entitled” to $63 worth of free 
food per month (as of October 1980). A four- 
person household is “‘entitled” to $209. The place 
to check in the phone book is the U.S. Department 
of Agriculture’s local Food Stamp office. The 
food stamp prices and rates change frequently. 
Food is a good trade item — we traded for eggs 
and non-food items. For example, we made 
arrangements with a group living on a farm. 
They didn’t “‘qualify”’ for welfare food but had an 
abundance of barnyard stock. We traded. We had 
food, another made sandals. We traded. We had 
cornmeal, someone raised a lamb — we had meat, 
they had meal. The best way to trade is to give 
it all away — when it’s time, it will come back. 
arf 
eee 
. 
Author shopping for dinner. 
f 
Tom Duckworth was one of the very first employees of 
The Whole Earth Catalog. He and his family lived in the 
back of a truck by the precepts of this piece he wrote 
in 1969 or so. Tom wasa travelling, don’t-give-’em-a- 
Standing-target Libertarian. Interestingly, his precepts 
hold steadily true 11 years later. 
We've updated the 
prices. Tom, where are you? You get $50 for having 
this article reprinted. 
—SB 
Next to free food, you need cheap food. Most 
bakeries sell day-old bread — we get about 5 
loaves of french bread for $1. (This helped feed 
the chickens too.) Egg processing companies and 
ranches sell flats of eggs below market value — 
we got cracked eggs for less than 4 cents each 
(cheap enough to feed the dogs) — though they 
do spoil quickly and there’s some danger of 
Salmonella. Also, farmers markets and flea 
markets are good places for cheap good produce. 
Most important of all — bulk purchases of wheat 
and rice are very wise investments. 
Cheap clothes are available at the Goodwill, 
army surplus stores, rummage sales and flea 
markets. 
Rent is the real bummer and we never 
solved it completely until we moved into our 
camper. However, rent can be lessened on a trade 
for rent basis. I got 3 weeks free rent in agree- 
ment to clean up the house I was moving into. 
One friend got a big house for 3 months in 
exchange for repairs. Another got a year’s free 
rent — the first 6 months in exchange for repairs 
and the last 6 months in trade for a sculpture he 
did. With the camper, rent is not the problem 
it once was. 
I built my camper for about $125. I got nearly all 
of the lumber at the city dump and at construc- 
tion sites (you could start a umber company 
from their scrap pile). The stove in the camper 
came from a trash pile and I traded a window for 
the sink. The icebox was given to me. The $25 
foam rubber mattress on our bed cost $10 at the 
flea market. Four of the five tires on my truck 
were free — I got them from behind the Santa 
Cruz County auto maintenance building. They 
use tubeless tires and they don’t repair them. 
They throw them away — it’s covered by taxes. 
Service stations and department stores sometimes 
throw away usable tires. 
Transportation is hard — mostly luck. I’ve been 
given | car, 1 truck and I bought an excellent 
running car for $20 trade. 
Medicine. 
In emergency, go to the county hospital, 
look for trade situations. I know of a dentist who 
did work at cost or trade for long-haired people. 
Another friend worked at a veterinary hospital 
to pay for his dog’s operation. Look behind the 
doctor’s office. 
I found 700 tranquilizers at 
the dump. 
Tools and furniture may be gotten at Goodwill, 
flea markets and rummage sales. 
If you look around, you may be able to find a 
mechanic who will work for exchange of things 
other than money — there are lots of things 
you can do. 
= 
eee 
Ta 
Living Free 
Son of Preinform, son of Vonulife, this endearing news- 
letter is a practical guide to living in America in such a 
way as to be invisible to its government. 
The idea is 
dogged Libertarian. 
The practice looks like fun and is 
surely cheap and mobile. 
—SB 
Living Free 
$6 /year (6 issues) from: 
Jim Stumm, Editor 
Living Free 
Box 29 
Hiler Branch 
Kenmore, NY 14223 
e 
While it is nice to find ways to survive in our mad society 
by dropping back to a simple lifestyle, | think it is all too 
easy to get caught in a trap of negative returns for the 
expended effort. We only have so much allotted time. 
If we are stuck out in the boonies raising our food and 
trying to exist w/o some decent technology, it just kills 
the hell out of our time. 
If a person can find a mate 
willing to live the “back to basics” life, then such time 
can be enjoyable. 
If not, forget it. Few women in 
society can ‘‘drop out’’ and most inwardly seek security 
in other directions. 
Friend R.E. is specialized. He travels through the larger 
city areas attending auctions and looking through news- 
paper ads. His prey is the gas refrigerator under $35. On 
his journeys north he loads up half a dozen or so and gets 
over $200 for every one he has. He diddles and piddles 
along in gorgeous back country and lives the same life a 
wealthy traveller would live in many ways. 
| have a neighbor down the road with a wife and family 
who travels around with his truck looking for driveways 
to pave with asphalt or gunk. He makes a good living 
and never sees any of his loot split with the tax man. 
The point of these and many examples left out is that 
there are still enough cracks in the System as it stands to 
enable anyone with a good brain to find their niche and 
enjoy themselves w/o “‘dropping out.” 
—John Freeman 
Pe 
