Shared Houses, Shared Lives 
Far cheaper than living alone or as a closed family, some- 
what freer (due to related tasks), considerably more 
adventurous. 
True book. 
—SB 
Ten years ago, | reluctantly joined a commune. 
It was 
my ex-husband's idea; he moved on, / stayed. | left the 
household just this last Christmas. 
The other oldest 
member and I used to joke that we had “lived together’’ 
longer than many people stay married. We watched a lot 
of living groups come and go, some were formed with 
high ideals and goals, others were haphazard and unplanned, 
still others had hedonistic purposes. Few have survived. 
Again | hear people becoming interested in sharing homes 
and lifestyles, but uncertain about how to begin. Reading 
this book would be a good way to start. 
It discusses the 
often vital problems many communes have run into, ways 
to deal with or circumvent them, and how to make it all 
work for you. 
—Evelyn Eldridge-Diaz 
Shared Houses 
Shared Lives 
$6.50 postpaid from: 
Houghton-Mifflin Co. 
Wayside Road 
Burlington, MA 01803 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
One motive is economic. For example: three families or 
six or seven single people may share a gracious, older 
house — the kind of house that was built with plenty of 
space for the much larger families of two or three genera- 
tions ago. Everyone gets a private bedroom and shares 
ample living space. But the rent or house payments are 
split three, six, or seven ways. A single member’s share of 
the housing costs may be as little as a hundred dollars a 
month or even less in certain cases. Because utility and 
food costs are shared, they are sharply reduced as well. 
The two families who rent a house together in Seattle 
found that communal living cut their utility and food bills 
by about 40 percent. 
The low cost of communal living allows people with 
modest incomes to live in the kind of home that, alas, 
has grown far too costly to build today — a solid house 
with carved woodwork, high ceilings, a fireplace, and a 
stained-glass window, with trees and a backyard, and ina 
pleasant neighborhood of similar houses. Many people 
are able to enjoy life in such a house only because they 
live communally . 
People with moderate or high incomes accumulate an 
impressive cash surplus while living communally. Often 
they spend it on travel or on a country home (sometimes 
the group buys one together). But people who are 
drawn to communal living for the economic advantages 
alone tend to be disappointed. Communal living seems to 
work when people have a genuine desire to become 
involved with one another as people, not just as part- 
ners in a plan to acquire possessions or enjoy a more 
luxurious lifestyle. 
Efficiency is another motivation for living communally. 
People who don’t like having to spend several hours a 
week keeping house find that shared housekeeping 
requires only a fraction of that time. Most commune 
members clean their own room plus one common room. 
Because they take turns cooking and grocery shopping, 
members of most groups cook one night a week and shop 
about once a month. When a group has small children, 
members can take turns baby-sitting. Parents who once 
had to stay home with their kids now hold a job or 
attend classes. 
Some Americans feel trapped in a high-consumption life- 
style that supports a high rate of industrial production, 
which in turn causes continued pollution. These people 
are motivated to live communally because of their 
concern for the environment. Three families who decide 
to share a house no longer need three stoves, three 
blenders, three washers and dryers, three swing sets, or 
three newspaper subscriptions; one of each will do. 
Communal! households surveyed in Minneapolis had far 
fewer appliances per capita than the average family 
household. Per capita natural-gas consumption was 40 
percent less than that of the average household. 
Concern for personal growth is another motivation for 
living communally. At work people learn to function asa 
polite and efficient team and to avoid more personal 
contact. Almost inevitably, they gain in self-understand- 
ing and in the ability to communicate and to be assertive. 
Some people are motivated to live communally because it 
can open the door to another kind of personal growth. 
These people find their jobs dissatisfying and yearn to do 
more fulfilling work. Because of the decrease in their 
living costs, commune members find it possible to give 
up their nine-to-five jobs and do something more 
rewarding. Before | lived communally, | was a newspaper 
reporter. When | fell asleep in a schoo! board meeting 
; 
that | was supposed to be covering, | was forced to admit 
to myself that | had grown bored with my job. | joineda 
communal household, cutting my living expenses to less 
than four hundred dollars a month. With the emotional 
support of my housemates | got up the courage to quit 
The Integral Urban House 
Like the Farallones Institute's Integral Urban House in 
Berkeley, CA, this fat book offers a basic education in the 
good stuff: gardening without chemicals, energy saving, 
solar retrofits, composting, grey water management, 
etc. If you've elected to be an urban citizen and not flee 
to the country, you ‘ll need to know much of what is 
presented here. The house has given many thousands of 
people their first look at real people doing all the “alter- 
native” things so often seen in the media but so rearely 
seen in the everyday life of most of us. The book serves 
in much the same way but in more detail: offering in 
addition to advice, a number of working plans for such 
things as windowbox greenhouselets. A good biblio- 
graphy will serve those who desire more detailed informa- 
tion. The house and the book share a lack of tight eco- 
nomic discussion and largely ignore political aspects of the 
project; that’s what’s being worked on now. 
—J. Baldwin 
(95.000 Keal) 
$12.95 postpaid from: 
; 
Sierra Club Books 
Box 3886 
Rincon Annex 
3 
San Francisco, CA 94119 
ete 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
nf 
f 
The Integral 
Urban House 
(Self-Reliant 
Living in the City) 
The Farallones 
Institute Staff 
1979; 494 pp. 
Sharing the Children 
The problem: to distribute the duties of child-rearing 
more equitably, to alleviate the tensions in family life 
resulting from the needs of children and to do a better 
job of raising the children. Solution: cooperative child 
care, re-creation of the village within the city, a group of 
parents sharing their children by organizing an unorthodox 
day care center that is non-institutional, uncertified, time- 
funded, self-equipped, and determined only by 
the partic- 
ipating persons (miniature and large economy size). This 
is not an instructional book that outlines how to start a 
day care center — except as an account of a particular 
long lasting successful one in the Morningside Heights 
area of New York City. The story is well-written and 
uplifting. 
| was entranced and | don’t even have children. 
—Diana Fairbanks 
[Suggested by Lester Natzger] 
Sharing the Children 
(Village child rearing 
within the city) 
Nora Harlow 
1976; 154 pp. 
e 
OUT OF PRINT 
Harper and Row 
Get this book 
back in print! 
It wasn’t being mothers that we hated so much. 
It was 
that being a mother at this particular time and particular 
place meant isolation, meant only being able to use your 
mind ina 
very limited way, meant spending years of your 
life in the company of child minds and child emotions. 
The structure of the relationship with the child was 
wrong. Banding together as women with young children, 
we quickly found that our fears of separation were 
groundless. We hadn't separated at all. We had just 
included more people in the circle of mother and child. 
—a 
sl 
my job and began writing books. Other commune 
members abandon traditional careers to support them- 
selves by making crafts, leading growth workshops, or 
pursuing some other form of self-employment. Commune 
members who want to make a more conventional career 
change are often able to finance a return to school. 
Members who have become disillusioned with careers 
sometimes take part-time jobs, using the rest of their 
time to launch artistic or political projects, or to follow 
their creativity in some other direction. 
There are many motives for living communally. But 
there is one underlying motivation that is the most 
important reason people join or start communal house- 
holds. When a sociologist asked members of Boston 
households about the satisfaction of communal living, 
the great majority checked one box on the question- 
naire. 
It read, ‘companionship, security, and a sup- 
portive atmosphere.” 
Figure 14-2 
Grass clippings 
Electric blankets use about 175 to 200 watts on an inter- 
mittent basis, and using them — as opposed to heating the 
entire house for the purpose of keeping the bed warm — 
can save a great deal of energy. A relatively low house 
temperature setting of, say, 60 degrees can be made 
tolerable by an electric blanket witha lightweight insulated 
cover. The idea is to get the heat to where it is needed. 
If you are going to purchase one of these appliances, get 
the best model available. (Check the ratings given by 
consumer testing services such as Consumers Unions.) 
Safety is an important consideration in selecting any elec- 
trical appliance, and careful shopping is therfore vital. 
The shock of getting out of bed into the cold to go to the 
bathroom can be offset by keeping a potty or watering 
can near the bed or by the use of spot heaters where 
needed. Again the strategy is to focus on the heat needs 
rather than to heat the entire house. 
Yearly Energy Budget of a Lawn Compared to an Alfalfa Patch 
Lawn 
Alfalfa 
20 square meters 
20 square meters 
iH 
7 
1s 
I 
1 
1 
' 
1 
' 
' 
1 
| 
| 
Labor 
Fuel 
1 
Composted manure 
(5.000 Keal) 
me; 
Fenilizer. | setae 
' 
pesticides 
| 
3 
“ 
4) 
(2.500 Keal 
(10,000 Kcal) 
et a 
(2.500 kcal)! 
eee 
! 
—~ 
1 Ibtryw 
! 
_— 
y 
, 
1 
! 
. 
1 
> 
Energy 
Energy 
Keel. 
ives 
— 
Input. 
Yield, 
Humen 
eo 
Keal 
Plant 
food 
Lawn 
15.000 
95,000 
— 
1 
Alfalfa 
5.000 
110.000 
15.000 
(15.000 Kcal) 
Urban Homesteading 
This is an outstanding guide for urban homesteaders and 
policy makers involved in housing. Unfortunately it is 
five years too late for most people. 
“Gentrification” 
(return to the inner cities by the rich and powerful) 
has already eliminated urban homesteading in most 
U.S. cities. 
/f you're interested in the years of hard work of repairing 
an abandoned house and youre willing to live in the 
few northeastern cities that are still experiencing inner 
city decay (Rochester, Newark, Harrisburg) this is the 
definitive book with examples from four cities. 
—Michael Phillips 
Urban Homesteading 
James W. Hughes and 
Kenneth D. Bleakly, Jr. 
1975; 276 pp. 
$15 postpaid from: 
Center for Urban 
Policy Research 
Rutgers University 
Building 4051 
Kilmer Campus 
New Brunswick, NJ 08903 
e 
The concept is a simple one which borrows from past 
experience. The homesteader “‘purchases” his parcel by 
the agreement to reside in the unit and improve it over a 
certain period of time. For this he receives title to the 
property free, or for a nominal charge. The central 
thesis underlying this program is that homeownership 
fosters a higher degree of parcel maintenance and specific 
attachment. The objective is to make previously 
unattractive units available to qualified owners for little 
or no initial cost, with the result that parcels which have 
been economically nonviable can come back on the 
market simply for the cost of rehabilitation. 
Implied, 
but not stated, it is the hope that new residents will be 
young, upwardly mobile people whose present income 
does not really reflect their potential. 
Ideally the 
program will draw these people back into the central city 
where, through hard work and a large amount of ‘sweat 
equity,’’ the homesteaders will rebuild their homes and, 
indirectly, the city. Thus, by increasing the number of 
homeowners, especially in a mix of income brackets, im- 
provements can be made in the quality of life in urban areas. 
