ie 
ee 
e 
. 
Wood Heat Safety 
Jay Shelton was among the first to do comparative testing 
of wood stoves and must be considered an expert of 
experts. 
In this detailed, very specific book, he considers 
virtually every detail (including water heating). 
It’s a 
good thing he does too; the attitude of energy indepen- 
dence that has grown along with the increasing popularity 
of wood heat has also brought forth a disregard for hazard 
that often approaches the foolhardy. 
|‘ve been in homes 
recently that had installations so flagrantly unsafe that | 
wouldn’t spend the night. An added bonus to Mr. 
Shelton’s recommendations is that he mostly refrains 
from scary war stories and guilt-inducing admonitions. 
/t’s just the facts you need to know, and no more or less. 
A commendably good job in every way: you needn‘t 
wait for a better one to come along. 
—J. Baldwin 
Wood Heat Safety 
Jay W. Shelton 
1979; 165 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
Garden Way 
Publishing Company 
Charlotte, VT 05545 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
My personal preference, not considering cost or con- 
venience of installation in an existing house, is an interior 
masonry chimney with all its walls exposed to the living 
spaces. By trying to avoid smoldering fires | manage to 
avoid much creosote buildup, and the exposed masonry 
contributes considerable heat. However | have installed 
some prefabricated metal chimneys in my homes because 
of the ease of installation. 
2 
There is an unusual kind of chimney damper available for 
masonry chimneys serving fireplaces. The damper is at 
the top of the chimney and the damper’s position is 
controlled from the fireplace inside the house. Such 
dampers have the potential advantage of preventing cold 
outdoor air from descending into and cooling the chim- 
ney and then the house when the fireplace is not in use. 
It is absolutely critical that the damper never shut due 
to heat, breakage, or wind, when there is a fire in the 
fireplace. As a practical matter, such dampers should 
also not be damaged by chimney fires. The dampers 
should probably also be designed so they cannot freeze 
shut; people often light fires before remembering to open 
the damper. Until both the safety of such devices is clear 
and the possible beneficial effects are quantified, | would 
be hesitant about using them. 
The ‘‘smoke-shadow" of a small girl who died of 
asphyxiation along with two sisters, a brother and 
her mother. Such accidents are much less likely in 
homes with smoke detectors. 
Figure 1.2. Some common 
mistakes that can cause 
| 
fires due to inadequate 
| 
| 
clearances from, or pro- 
| 
tection of, combustible 
1 
materials near a stove and 
its chimney. 
Best 
Intermediate 
Figure 2-5. Chimney location and draft. Various chimney 
locations are marked in the figure with respect to draft 
quality and freedom from flow reversal and non-self- 
starting problems. 
Burning Wood 
by J. Baldwin 
Shortages and high cost of conventional fuels have 
encouraged many people to turn to wood. Too 
many, probably, for this country’s wood supply to 
service over the long haul unless disciplined forest 
management is practiced. This seems to be an 
unlikely prospect until there are shortages of wood 
too; cord-cutting is a quick profit business. 
It 
obviously takes a lot less time to cut and burn a 
tree than it takes to grow one. How many of you 
who burn wood plant trees? Of course, you can 
justify using “downed wood,” but that is taking 
needed soil nutrients and it deprives certain wild- 
life of necessary shelter and food. You can burn 
“slash” cuttings and stumps left over from lumber- 
ing — but this is definitely a limited resource and 
it smacks a bit of secretly condoning the awful 
lumbering methods that result in slash. Rather 
like not thinking about where your hamburger 
really comes from. A great many woodburning 
civilizations have completely destroyed their 
forests (old China, for example) and many others 
are well on the way (India and many South 
American countries.) In this country we plant 
approximately one tree for each ten cut, so we 
aren’t safe either. Wood may be renewable but it 
isn’t inexhaustible unless managed. Even that 
holds a possibility of soil depletion over a long 
period of time. 
Whether you are going to be honest about it and 
manage a woodlot (or buy from a managed lot), or 
whether you are going to transfer a fossil fuel 
attitude to wood burning and ignore the real 
issues as long as you are warm today, it will pay 
to use as little wood as possible. This means good 
insulation and a weather-tight building (rarely 
seen in arural setting) and good equipment. Tradi- 
tion isn’t always a good indicator of efficiency 
either. Our forefathers saw the forests as inex- 
haustible and if their high-ceilinged houses leaked 
a lot of heat, they just put on another log. Look 
at the gigantic size of many colonial fireplaces! 
Even the famous “‘Franklin Stove”’ is an energy 
hog. (Though Ben Franklin’s original was not. 
What we have today are cheap imitations of the 
cheap imitations of his day.) In any case, an 
increased use of wood as fuel is going to add 
pressure to an already overloaded environment as 
the demand for trees increases and as air pollution 
is increased from burning a not-quite-simple 
fire in the fireplace on a rainy night. 
In the hardware department also there is contro- 
versy. ‘‘My Ashley is better than your Trolla!” 
and every other possible combination of brand 
loyalty, myth, and unfounded claim is heard these 
days. Professor Jay Shelton, (of Wood Heat 
Safety, above) has actually run tests on many 
stoves under laboratory conditions in an effort to 
settle some of the arguments. 
I don’t know 
whether he has settled them or not. Now I hear, 
“Yes, but his lab is different from my adobe,” and 
Home Energy Digest 
(Wood Burning Quarterly) 
The advertising manager of this magazine told me that 
400 new manufacturers of wood stoves have started 
business in the U.S. since 1970 (without word-one or 
dollar-one of encouragement from the government, it 
should be gladly noted). 
If you‘re shopping for wood 
heat equipment, this is the place to do it — 224 pages in 
a recent issue. 
Only drawback; perhaps because it is such 
an advertising medium, the product reviews are not 
critical. 
In all other respects the magazine has a fine, 
useful currency in a field that’s moving pretty rapidly 
considering how traditional it is. 
Home Energy Digest 
(Wood Burning 
Quarterly) 
$9.95 /year (4 issues) 
from: 
Home Energy Digest 
8009 34th Avenue South 
Minneapolis, MN 55420 
This cute little manually controlled. 
procelain enamelled, cast iron stove from 
Denmark is designed to burn pea coal 
coke, or charcoal. Its firebox is firebrick 
lined and has a removable ringed lid on 
top for cooking. Although it measures only 
31% high, 15‘ in. wide and 17 in. deep 
(including ash lip), this 154 lb. ( shipping 
weight) unit has a claimed heating 
capacity of 3000-5000 cu. 
ft. It accepts 5 
in. flue pipe and is available in various 
colors. Lange also makes a beautiful little 
coal] burning ship's stove complete with 
rings on top for various size pots and a 
brass rail ( optional) to complete the nauti 
ca] motif. It's designed to heat a medium 
sized boat or 1-2 average sized rooms. A 
large capacity wood-or-coa] unit, the 6302 
RA, is also in the works. ( From the 
Svendborg Co., P.O. Box 5, Hanover, NH 03755 ) 
e 
As a home heating fuel, wood has rekindled its popu- 
larity to near-recordsetting proportions: over one million 
people now heat their home with wood; by 1985, the 
figure’s expected to climb to 15 million. But it will 
certainly be up to all of us to assure that the forest lands 
we now have in abundance are not mismanaged. 
Handy Mate Log Lifters 
and Log Rollers 
T/M Pat. Pending 
A Chain Saw’s Best Friend 
mt 
Economy Model 
5 
Deluxe Model 
Log Roller 
EEE 
like that. It’s clear that there will have to bea 
lot more research if we are really going to know 
what we are doing. 
I’ll guess that certain stoves 
are best for certain structures, weather, and wood 
type. Best is probably to ask around, as there are 
many local problems. For instance, did you know 
that burning driftwood just eats the hell out of 
steel stoves? The salt. (I can hear it now... 
“‘But 
our stove has been fed driftwood right here in 
Coos Bay for 35 years and it’s just like new!”) Ah 
well. Here are some books on the subject, and 
some stoves that our readers seem to like. We 
haven’t had any letters on what readers dislike, 
probably because it’s too embarrassing to spend 
$300 ona 
turkey. For sure you should shop 
around. Many stoves are heavily discounted, And 
keep in mind what you’re doing to our trees... 
m 
