Where There Is No Doctor 
A pioneering self-care handbook based on Practices 
developed by the author and co-workers over the past 
sixteen years — while organizing a self-care health net- 
work in a remote, doctorless area of rural Mexico. E very 
Page is crammed with useful basic information, some of 
it specific to the problems of underdeveloped countries, 
most of use to anyone. 
Includes a fine chapter on being a 
lay health worker. Spanish edition also available. 
—Tom Ferguson, M.D. 
This is an amazingly fine book. Perfectly organized, 
highly graphic, concise, honest, shocking at times, really 
comprehensive. As Henderson (Emergency Medical 
Guide, p. 324) is the book to have around the house, 
this is the one to have when you live or are traveling out 
of immediate reach of ambulances. 
—SB 
SKIN PROBLEMS — A Guide to Identification 
1F THE SKIN 
AND LOOKS 
HAS. 
LIKE 
Tiny bumps or sores with much 
. 
itching—first between fingers, on = 
= 
Pimples 
or sores with pus or 
inflammation, 
often trom 
scratching 
insect bites. May cause 
swollen lymph nodes. 
regular, spreading sores 
with shiny. yellow crusts. 
Pimples on young people's faces, 
sometimes chest and back, often 
with small heads of pus 
A sore on the genitals, without 
itching or pain. 
Treatment for cough: 
1. To loosen mucus and ease any kind of cough, 
drink lots of water. This works better than any 
medicine. (However, potassium iodide may help. See 
page 370.) 
Also breathe hot water vapors. Sit on a chair with 
a bucket of very hot water at your feet. Place a sheet 
over your head and cover the bucket to catch the 
vapors as they rise. Breathe the vapors deeply for 15 
minutes. Repeat several times a day. Some people like 
to add mint or eucalyptus leaves or Vaporub, but hot 
water works just as well alone. 
¢ Aspirin and hot soaks (p. 195) help calm most kinds of back pain. 
¢ For low back pain that comes from lifting or straining, quick relief can 
sometimes be brouaht like this: 
Have the person lie 
with one foot 
tucked under his 
Then, holding this shoulder 
down, 
forcefully push this knee 
aver so as to twist the back. 
Do this first on one side and 
then the other. 
IF YOU DO NOT HAVE A TOOTHBRUSH: 
Use the twig of a tree, like this 
Chew on this end and use 
the fibers as a brush. 
Sharpen this end to clean 
between the teeth. oe 
Where There 
Is No Doctor 
(A Village Health 
Care Handbook) 
David Werner 
1977; 447 pp. 
$7.50 postpaid 
Donde No 
Hay Doctor 
(Spanish Edition) 
David Werner 
1973, 1977; 299 pp. 
$7.50 Postpaid 
both from: 
The Hesperian 
Foundation 
or Whole Earth 
P.O. Box 1692 
Household Store 
Palo Alto, CA 94302 
(English edition only) 
Deep Wounds in the Abdomen 
Any wound that goes into the belly or 
gut is dangerous, Sek medical help 
- But in the meantime 
‘Cover the wound with a clean bandage. 
Mf the guts are partly outside the wound, 
‘cover them with a clean cloth soaked in lightly 
‘salted, boiled water. Do not try to push the 
guts back in, 
If the wounded person is in 
shock, raise his feet higher 
than his head. 
Give absolutely nothing by 
mouth: no food, no 
Grink, not even water, 
If the wounded person is thirsty, let him suck on 
2 piece of cloth soaked in water. 
The Essential Guide to Prescription Drugs 
The most detailed available consumer's encyclopedia on 
the 200 + most commonly prescribed drugs — mode of 
action, side-effects, contra-indications, time required for 
benefit, recommended follow-up examinations, inter- 
actions with other drugs, and — especially hard to find 
— use during pregnancy and breastfeeding. No opinions 
on controversies here, just the facts. 
—Tom Ferguson, M.D. 
The Essential Guide 
to Prescription Drugs 
(What You Need to 
Know for Safe Drug Use) 
James W. Long, M.D. 
1977; 752 pp. 
$8.95 Postpaid from: 
Harper and Row 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
C27? 
MUL 
ALA 
ISAT 
A? 
e 
Aspirin — Use During Pregnancy — Studies indicate that 
the regular use of salicylates during pregnancy is often 
detrimental to the health of the mother and to the 
welfare of the infant. Excessive use of salicylate drugs 
(aspirin) can cause anemia, hemorrhage before and 
after delivery, and an increased incidence of still births. 
It is advisable to limit the use of aspirin during pregnancy 
to small doses and to brief periods of time. 
Aspirin — Use in Breastfeeding — This drug is present in 
milk and may cause adverse effects in the nursing infant. 
It is advisable to avoid use if nursing. 
Activated charcoal 
NRTA—AARP Pharmacy 
Certain (not all) water supplies contain chlorinated 
hydrocarbons — a carcinogen. 
They are formed when 
your water supply company chlorinates your water and 
the water contains large amounts of organic compounds 
like petroleum. 
In New Orleans, the most downstream 
city on the Mississippi, chlorination has increased cancer 
rates because of all the petroleum products dumped 
into the river upstream. Poughkeepsie, New York suffers 
the same problem because of upstream dumping. Every- 
one in these cities (and others) should run their drinking 
water through activated charcoal. 
This is the oldest and 
best filter of chlorinated hydrocarbons. 
Distillation does 
not work! Anyone who suspects high amounts of chloro- 
form or other carcinogens in their water supply should 
force their water supplier to test for all the possibilities. 
No one knows “safe’’ amounts. 
Walnut Acres provides 
high quality activated charcoal and good instructions. 
Slightly too expensive. 
—Peter Warshall 
Granulated Activated 
Carbon 
$2/ib. (Instructions 
included) from: 
Walnut Acres 
Penns Creek, PA 17862 
Biggest and best source for mail order drugs. Offers both 
prescription and non-prescription items at a great dis- 
count. Especially good for vitamins if you buy the 
NRTA-AARP Formula that’s equivalent to nationally 
advertised brands. Also has a good selection of elastic 
stockings and hearing aid batteries. 
They say their service is only for members of the National 
Retired Teacher's Association-American Association of 
Retired People. The scrupulous among us will join (they 
don’t check) for an annual fee of $4. Well worth it for a 
confirmed pill popper. 
You don’t have to be old, after 
all, to be retired. 
Interestingly enough, I’ve been led to believe by an 
official of NRTA-AARP that, despite the really good 
discount given, the co-op pharmacy is a real money- 
maker for the organization; so don’t feel like you‘re 
robbing a bunch of old people by taking advantage of this. 
Other good things: they will give you credit with no 
delay for credit clearance and there are no postal charges. 
—James Thorsen 
free from: 
alt Bel: 
NRTA-AARP Pharmacy 
- 
1224 24th Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20037 
14 True Words on Health and 
Malpractice Insurance 
You will stay healthier without 
health insurance. 
Doctors give better care without 
malpractice insurance. 
—SB 
Health for the Whole Person 
Whew. A measure of how wide and deep holistic medicine 
has reached in the last couple years is this great 
big attempt 
to surround the field. Family therapy, medical self-care, 
environmental toxins, biofeedback, hypnosis, meditation, 
psychic healing, exercise, chiropractic, homeopathy, nutri- 
tion, vitamins, music and color, childbirth, dentistry, 
hospice, and sundry overviews. Each subject has a sub- 
stantial essay followed by a richly annotated bibliography. 
I'd say the attempt succeeds. 
/f you’ve had it with conventional hospitals and conven- 
tional docs, shop here. Sw 
Health for the 
Whole Person 
(The Complete Guide 
to Holistic Medicine) 
Arthur C. Hastings, James 
Fadiman, James S. 
Gordon, Editors 
1980; 529 pp. 
$1 2.95 postpaid from: 
Westview Press 
5500 Central Avenue 
Boulder, CO 80301 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
] 
A person who has suffered a traumatic injury or who is 
critically ill can be considered to be in a spontaneous 
hypnotic state. Frightened people need no formal induc- 
tion to hypnosis; they are already in the hypnotic state 
when we see them. This makes them wonderfully respon- 
sive to helpful suggestion, even though they may appear 
apathetic or even unconscious. 
These principles may be helpful in using this state for the 
benefit of the patient (Cheek, 1969): 
e Learn to recognize and enhance the signs of hypnotic 
behavior in the critically ill. 
e Use all your power to communicate hope and optimism; 
do it sincerely because phony reassurance is easily recog- 
nized by the critically ill. 
¢ Collect your thoughts and marshal a plan of action; 
don’t be rushed. Give some instructions to bystanders 
before touching or speaking to the patient. This allows 
time to regain your poise. 
e Tell the patient what has happened and that he will be 
all right. Outline what you are doing and what your 
reason for doing it is. Tell what your plan is for him 
tomorrow and in the future. With unconscious people, 
even if they show no pupilar reflex to light, give instruc- 
tion and promises of a future. Congratulate the person 
for being so relaxed. Tell him specifically how long you 
expect him to remain relaxed before awakening with 
feelings of hunger or thoughts of food. Give instructions 
for the body to relax and for it to deal as necessary with 
physical needs and recovery. 
¢ Give medication for pain if possible. Tell the patient 
what you are giving and why. This communicates 
constructive action. 
e Get a conscious patient to talk about work, hobbies, 
family, and experiences if he is able to talk. This directs 
the mind to concern itself with times and places where 
pain and fear did not exist. 
Kuntzleman, C.T., and Consumer Guide Editors. Rating 
the Exercises. New York: Penguin, 1980. 
Charles Kuntzleman is a former national director of 
YMCA athletic programs, including the popular and 
effective Fitness Finders Program. He is the author of 
several other fitness books and has experience in designing 
specific physical regimes for varied groups throughout the 
United States. 
| worked with him one summer and 
enjoyed his approaches and techniques in person as much 
as | enjoyed his books. 
In this book, possibly his best, Dr. Kuntzleman rates 
every major exercise program from aerobics to yoga. He 
identifies fuzzy thinking, transparent claims, ripoff 
approaches, poor research, and old wives’ tales. His most 
important criterion for effectiveness is whether an exercise 
provides adequate cardiovascular effects. Steamrooms, 
saunas, hot tubs, and other passive devices are enjoyable 
but unproductive for strengthening the heart, lungs, and 
major muscle groups; for decreasing body weight; or for 
increasing the ratio of lean muscle to fat content. The 
book, which devotes an entire chapter to discussing the 
utility of health spas and other health and fitness enter- 
prises, is especially valuable as a reference document. 
