~ COMMUNITY 
PSYCHOLOGICAL SELF-CARE 329 
choose to be colorblind. Alcoholism’s the exis- 
tential card we’re dealt. We have to play it, one 
way or another. I tried drinking for fifteen years 
and sobriety for one and some. I like sobriety 
better. If, like me, you passed that twenty ques- 
tions test, I hope you’ll save yourself a lot of time 
and trouble and find the help you need to deal 
with your drinking problem today. 
Alcoholics Anonymous is a fellowship of men 
and women who share their experience, strength, 
and hope with each other that they may solve 
their common problem and help others to re- 
cover from alcoholism. 
The only requirement for membership is a desire 
to stop drinking. 
There are no dues or fees for AA membership; we 
are self-supporting through our own contributions. 
AA is not allied with any sect, denomination, 
politics, organization or institution; does not 
wish to engage in any controversy; neither 
endorses nor opposes any causes. Our primary 
purpose is to stay sober and help other alcoholics 
to achieve sobriety. 
—Copyright by the AA Grapevine, Inc. ; 
Reprinted by permission of Alcoholics 
Anonymous World Services, Inc. 
Check your telephone book for an AA listing 
AA World Services, Inc. 
P.O. Box 459 
Grand Central Station 
New York, NY 10017 
Or write 
AA will send three to four pamphlets free and a 
Public Information Material Order Form listing 
titles and prices of various books and pamphlets 
® 
From Sad to Glad 
You've heard things like this said before: this book may 
save your life. More important (because dead men do not 
feel), it may save you months and years of dreadful and 
irrelevant 
suffering. 
This book is of potential interest to many people — to the 
colleagues, lovers, friends, and relations of depressives; to 
psychiatrists, doctors, social workers; to the curious. 
/t’s 
unique and unprecedented, a discussion of what is known 
of this malady written by a man who is, by experience, 
scholarship, and gifted observation, reassuringly qualified 
to write such a book. 
(There are a bewilderingly few 
other books on depression. 
| can’t be certain that I’ve 
seen them all, but the others / have seen are either idio- 
syncratic and wrong or stupid and wrong.) 
! went through six shrinks and a couple ordinary doctors 
before | began to get even a whiff of what was wrong 
with me, and I’m a classic, regulation manic-depressive 
if ever there was one. Thousands and thousands of hours 
/ suffered, because they didn’t knowand thought they did. 
Kline covers a lot: the history of depression as a medical 
entity; famous depressives (Darwin, Abe Lincoln, etc., 
etc.); the best current theories as to the nature of the 
“biochemical storms,” as he calls them, which are depres- 
sion; manic-depressive illness; forms of treatment (includ- 
ing shock treatment, which a stomachful of ignorant bad- 
mouthing to the contrary, may be profoundly beneficial 
in depression). 
The book is conversational, almost simple; 
but it’s thorough and informative. 
(If, after reading it, 
you want more detail and sophistication, you now have 
a good basic knowledge with which to approach the 
Archives of General Psychiatry.) 
But Im really here to say that this book is, urgently, for 
depressives themselves. Buy it, beg it borrow it, check 
it out: get it. Most doctors and most psychiatrists are 
not qualified to treat depression because they don’t know 
anything true about it. They think it’s something else. 
So you better know. Get this book. 
The heart of the experience that is depression, the univer- 
sal symptom, is the absence of all pleasure. From the 
fragile prettiness of a spiderweb to the melting savor of a 
truly great steak to the corruscating delights of lovemaking: 
all pleasures vanish. 
If you won the Nobel prize, the wine 
country of France, the loving esteem of all humankind, a 
Maserati, and another Nobel prize, all on the same balmy, 
sundrenched summer morning, youd fee/. . 
. perhaps 
Alcoholics Anonymous 
Known to most AA’s as the Big Book, Alcoholics 
Anonymous /s the bible of the program. 
It explains 
briefly how AA came into being and how it works. 
It 
describes AA’s program for living (and thriving) sober. 
!t also contains accounts by 42 AA‘s of their alcoholism, 
from progressive drinking to hitting bottom to entering 
AA and on to recovery. 
Two other AA books — /n Twelve Steps and Twelve Tra- 
ditions “‘A co-founder of Alcoholics Anonymous tells 
how members recover and how the society functions.” 
Living Sober has “some methods AA members have used 
for not drinking.“” 
—A member of Alcoholics Anonymous 
Alcoholics 
Anonymous 
1939, 1976; 575 pp. 
$5.65 Postpaid 
Living Sober 
(Some methods AA 
members have used 
for not drinking) 
1975, 1979; 87 pp. 
$1 15 postpaid 
Twelve Steps and 
Twelve Traditions 
(A co-founder of 
Alcoholics Anonymous 
tells how members 
recover and how the 
society functions) 
1952, 1953; 192 pp. 
$4 Postpaid 
all from: 
Alcoholics Anonymous 
World Services, Inc. 
P.O. Box 459 
Grand Central Station 
New York, NY 10017 
e 
We have three little mottoes which are apropos. 
Here 
they are: 
First Things First 
Live and Let Live 
Easy Does It. 
—Alcoholics Anonymous 
fear, perhaps bewilderment, perhaps horror. But no 
pleasure. Depression is to the sensor of pleasure as 
blindness is to the eye. 
/f yours is a mild depression, it may be no more than the 
simple absence of pleasure. 
The world goes flat, and 
nothing calls to you. Whatever you loved, you don’t 
love it anymore. 
You don’t want to go running through 
the meadows, dancing, bodysurfing, backpacking. 
You 
feel awkward around people, inferior because you have no 
spark to give them, no life. 1f you used to be witty, you 
aren‘t. Nothing is funny. Challenges become burdensome, 
unpleasant chores loom like dead Sequoias. 
You fee! al- 
ways either saggingly bored or hardpressed. Sex is with- 
out attraction, like the prospect of dining on birdseed. 
You initiate nothing, not adventures, not conversations. 
Unaccountably, it seems desperately important that you 
appear to other people as if nothing were wrong. 
Your 
polite smile is like wet clay stuck to your face, for you are 
inwardly paralyzed with dread and for you there is no 
such thing as play or even casual civility. Every gesture 
and every word must be forged, manufactured with as 
much difficulty and more concentration than goes into an 
entire Chevrolet. Any decision, whether to leave your 
door open or closed, to have salad with dinner, to put a 
book back on the shelf, to take a coat — is agony, irresolv- 
able. There is no criterion on which to base a decision, 
for all the feelings and preferences of ordinary life have 
been usurped 
by dread, and dread cannot tell you whether 
you want to wear green socks or blue ones. 
This despair may bring along a friend, terror, known in 
the trade as “anxiety.” /t is fear like acid, permeating the 
black ocean as the black ocean permeates your life, fear 
of nothing and fear of everything. 
Terror shrieks around 
you, recoiling off the edges of the universe, off your 
front door, off your pillow. It screams up out of the 
gutters and boils out of gasoline pumps. Fear blazes 
through your head like bullets, but there’s nowhere to 
run, because it’s there, too. 
Except there is one place to run, and that’s death. Some 
people do. 
It’s like nothing else, depression. 
It’s horrible. But the 
right medication may dissolve the horror, and restore you 
to forests, and giggling, hot pastrami, Bach, moral outrage, 
sleeping late, and even falling in love. 
—Judith Van Slooten 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
e 
Much later when | had progressed to full-blown alcoholism, 
people told me | should quit. Like most other alcoholics 
| have known, | did quit drinking at various times — once 
for ten months on my own and during other interludes 
when | was hospitalized. 
It’s no great trick to stop drink- 
ing; the trick is to stay stopped. 
To do that, | had come to AA to learn how to handle 
sobriety — which is what | could not handle in the first 
place. That’s why | drank. 
—Alcoholics Anonymous 
e 
THE TWELVE STEPS 
Step One 
“We admitted we were powerless over alcohol — that our 
lives had become unmanageable.” 
Step Two 
“Came to believe that a Power greater than ourselves 
could restore us to sanity.” 
Step Three 
“Made a decision to turn our will and our lives over to the 
care of God as we understood Him.” 
Step Four 
“Made a searching and fearless moral inventory 
or ourselves." 
Step Five 
“Admitted to God, to ourselves, and to another human 
being the exact nature or our wrongs.” 
Step Six 
“Were entirely ready to have God remove all these defects 
of character.” 
Step Seven 
“Humbly asked Him to remove our shortcomings.” 
Step Eight. 
‘Made a list of all persons we had harmed, and became 
willing to make amends to them all.’ 
Step Nine 
‘Made direct amends to such people wherever possible, 
except when to do so would injure them or others.” 
Step Ten 
“Continued to take personal inventory and when we were 
wrong promptly admitted it.” 
Step Eleven 
“Sought through prayer and meditation to improve our 
conscious contact with God as we understood Him, 
praying only for knowledge of His will for us and the 
power to carry that out.” 
Step Twelve 
“Having had a spiritual awakening as the result of these 
steps, we tried to carry this message to alcoholics, and to 
practice these principles in all our affairs.”” 
—Twelve Steps and Twelve Traditions 
From Sad to Glad 
(Kline on Depression) 
Nathan S. Kline, M.D. 
1974; 250 pp. 
$2.50 Postpaid from: 
Ballantine Books, Inc. 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
True depression. 
. 
. requires treatment, and that brings us 
right back to the question of what kind of illness it is. | 
am convinced that it’s usually a biochemical disorder, and 
| find that in most cases it responds well to drug therapy. 
| believe that some cases probably do truly arise from a 
neurosis, but | consider these to be exceptional instances. 
| estimate neurotic depression to constitute a very small 
percentage of the truly severe cases... 
. 
thing is that in most cases the medication works. 
. 
. 
. 
Curiously enough, some patients feel guilty about achieving 
that kind of recovery. They have been thoroughly indoc- 
trinated in the idea that emotional disturbance must reflect 
psychic ills, and they expect the treatment to require a 
prolonged, painful search through deeply buried layers 
of their unconscious. When they obtain relief without 
that effort, they feel that they didn’t earn recovery because 
they haven't paid the psychic price. However, that is a 
disappointment that most can adjust to readily enough. 
| recall a particular patient, 
a prominent radio personality, 
who was a manic-depressive. 
For fifteen years he sought a 
remedy in psychoanalysis, all the while enduring moods 
that swung erratically and irrationally from elation to 
despair. 
“‘I think the analysis was valuable,”’ he told me 
later. ‘I gained a lot of insight into myself. 
| was 
probably the most insightful manic-depressive you ever 
met. 
But | was still a manic-depressive.”” 
| placed him on 
chemotherapy, and the problem was cleared up in about 
two months.... 
©, S'S 8. Sis) 8 (ee Ke 6) a 6) © S586 SLA 6 
6 
06 
a 
5 em 
Oe, 0, © 
THE RISING SUN 
sph 
ELSA NEWSLETTER 
%& 
Art says that he reached a moment when he had 
to decide how much he wanted to be involved 
with computers because if he didn’t want to be 
very very involved he had to stop right then. 
The really important 
