a 
” COMMUNITY — 
RUNNING 
The Aerobics Way 
Ken Cooper has had more positive impact on the lives of 
more Americans than any other living physician. 
Since 
the publication of his first book, Aerobics, in 1968, 60 
million Americans have started exercise programs, many 
of them using his book as a guide. During this time the 
death rate from heart disease has declined ten percent. 
Between 1970 and 1974, the average American ’s life span 
increased from 70.9 to 72.0 years. Since ‘68, Cooper has 
been continuing his exercise research at the Aerobics 
Center in Dallas. 
This new book includes his experiences 
in the intervening nine years. 
It is a much superior book. 
Aerobics was based on Cooper’s work with young and 
middle-aged Air Force men. 
The Aerobics Way reflects 
his work with women, older people, and people with 
special medical problems, including obesity. 
There is a 
much more complete treatment of diet. More sports are 
included. 
There is a self-scoring coronary risk profile, 
and an excellent bibliography. 
The basic program has changed in two ways: endurance 
Points have been added (so that three miles run together 
are now worth more than three miles run separately), and 
there is more emphasis on starting out very slowly and 
gently. Cooper argues persuasively for a treadmill stress 
test — especially for men over thirty-five — before starting 
@ new program, and at regular intervals afterward. Such 
testing was not widely available when the first book was 
published. Now — largely because of Cooper’s efforts — 
they are becoming increasingly so. The Aerobics Way 
lists 151 centers, nation-wide, which specialize in such 
testing. The most interesting new resource this book 
offers is corresponding membership in the new Aerobics 
International Research Society. People exercising regu- 
larly are encouraged to join. Members receive a blank 
exercise log which is filled out daily and periodically 
mailed in. 
Your exercise information is added to the 
AIRS data bank. 
You receive 
amonthly printout of your 
activity with aerobics points calculated, and copies of the 
Society’s newsletter. 
You'll also be asked to fill out an 
unning must be the most benign fad in 
history. Apparently superficial, as any 
craze, it nevertheless goes deep into the 
practitioner and possibly into the society as a 
whole. Harmful effects are hard to find. 
The gear 
is too minimal to be a distraction. Competition 
is optional. 
Health and good spirits bloom. 
OK. 
Tom Ferguson, editor of Medical Self Care (p. 322) 
went from reluctance to enthusiasm to obsession 
about running, as you can tell from his appraisals 
of the current best of the running literature. 
—SB 
occasional health questionnaire, so that the effects of 
your exercise program can be documented. 
There is a 
nominal yearly membership fee. 
“I hope you will join,” 
Cooper writes, “since it will be motivational for you and 
will provide our research institute with an invaluable 
source of data.“ Membership information is available 
from AIRS, P.O. Box 22359, Dallas, Texas 75222. 
The best book currently available on getting in shape. 
—Tom Ferguson, M.D. 
The Aerobics Way 
(New Data on the 
World’s Most Popular 
Exercise Program) 
Kenneth H. Cooper, 
M.D., M.P.H. 
1977; 311 pp. 
$10 postpaid from: 
M. Evans and Company 
E.P, Dutton and Co. 
Two Park Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
Household:Store 
e 
Another important phenomenon of exercise is the seem- 
ingly contradictory fact that vigorous exercise actually 
depresses the appetite, thus making dieting easier. 
Total Fitness in 30 Minutes a Week 
This book’s title put me off for a Jong time, but people 
kept recommending it and | finally read it and, lo and 
behold, it’s a very useful book, though it could more 
accurately be entitled “Relative Fitness in 30 Minutes a 
Week.” The point is that if you don’t exercise at all, 30 
minutes a week devoted to Dr. Morehouse’s program will 
probably bring you to above-normal fitness for your 
age and sex. 
Reading this book made me aware of my own prejudices 
in the direction of high levels of fitness. 
It also made me 
realize that | have never been completely out of condition. 
Moorehouse has you start small — standing instead of 
sitting, taking the stairs instead of riding the elevator, 
running in place for five minutes before your daily bath 
or shower. An excellent book if you are just starting to 
exercise, or if you have limited time to devote to an 
exercise program. 
—Tom Ferguson, M.D. 
Total Fitness in 30 
Minutes a Week 
Laurence E. Morehouse, 
Ph.D. and Leonard Gross 
1975, 255 pp. 
$2.45 postpaid from: 
Pocket Books 
Attn: Order Department 
1230 Avenue of 
the Americas 
New York, NY 10020 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
® 
To double your physical strength and endurance and 
bring you to par with a trained athlete requires a mini- 
mum of two hours a day of strenuous exertion. That’s 
not a realistic goal; you haven't got the time, patience, 
inclination, or need. You'll do extremely well with less. 
Skipping the Rope 
/f youre trapped indoors, this is a good quick way to fit 
up without going anywhere (jogging machines seem mad- 
ness tome). 
Though the scenery is limited, rope skipping 
offers more things you can try than running does — cross 
overs, spins, twirls, flips, double turns, cross foots, alter- 
nating sideward leg flings, and heel clicks. No propaganda 
here, just technique. 
—SB 
Skipping the Rope 
(For Fun and Fitness) 
Frank B. Prentup 
1963; 36 pp. 
$2.25 postpaid from: 
Pruett Publishing Co. 
3235 Prairie Avenue 
Boulder, CO 80301 
Measuring the Rope — 
Stand in the loop with 
the feet together and 
stretch the ends of the 
rope to the armpits. 
nye 
Women’s Running 
For beginning and advanced women runners. Good sec- 
tions on sox, bras, cold and wet weather clothing. 
Evaluates shoes by brand name and gives names of com- 
panies which sell extra-narrow running shoes (a problem 
for many women, since most companies make only small 
versions of wider men’s shoes). 
The author, a physician 
who runs, communicates the feeling of camaraderie of 
running with women and offers practical tips on running 
with men. 
—Gatha Hesselden 
Women’s Running 
Joan Ullyot, M.D. 
1976; 155 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
World Publications 
Box 366 
Mountain View, CA 94040 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
One of the sad facts of life is that even a paunchy, beer- 
drinking, smoking, middle-aged slob, if he’s male, can 
almost always run a mile faster and more easily without 
practice than a woman. 
It’s discouraging to you and can 
lead to understandable feelings of resentment if you set 
out together. 
It’s unjust, but there it is — your horribly 
unfit husband is a better miler than you at the start... 
. 
He may wish to run with you and guide your steps. Say 
no. Pleasant as it may be to have company, it is unwise 
to run-with a man until you are reasonably fit and can 
run under 10 minutes per mile. 
The Complete Book of Running 
This chatty, highly readable runner’s gazetteer covers an 
amazing number of the big and little details — practical, 
physiological, philosophical, from transcendence to jock- 
straps — that take on increasing importance as running 
becomes an integral part of your life. 
—Tom Ferguson, M.D. 
The Complete Book 
of Running 
James F. Fixx 
1977; 315 pp. 
$10.95 postpaid from: 
Random House 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The easiest time of day for running, the time least likely to 
be disrupted by unexpected intrusions, is early morning. 
All that’s needed is to rise a bit earlier than usual. Even in 
winter there’s a special joy in being outdoors at dawn, a 
peaceful sense of privacy found at no other time. 
In 
summer there's the advantage of getting your run in 
before the heat of the day. 
a 
The Joy of Running 
Dr. Kostrubala has you start big — running/walking for 
three one-hour periods a week. 
You end up joining a 
running group — or forming your own — and running 10 
miles a day in training for a marathon. 
The author started 
out 50 pounds overweight, unable to run 100 yards. 
The 
story of his progress — interspersed with physiological 
and anthropological asides — is delightful and inspiring. 
His account of his first marathon will make you feel 
as though you had run one yourself. 
/ started marathon training after reading this book. 
(I’d 
worked my way through Ken Cooper’s The Aerobics Way 
program already.) I’m now up to 15 miles. 
Training for 
a marathon takes a long time — often a year or longer. 
It becomes a sort of benign addiction. 
There’s certainly 
a point where it becomes something more than just keep- 
ing in shape. 
In my 
case it was some things | started 
noticing at and beyond the three-mile mark. A kind of 
physical and emotional second wind. Near the point of 
exhaustion, I’d suddenly find myself sprinting, trans- 
ported. 
Or, other times, suddenly crying for no apparent 
reason. Something happens when you start running long 
distances. 
| don’t understand what it is, but I’m out 
there every day because of it. This personal, quirky book 
comes as close to describing it as anything I’ve seen. 
—Tom Ferguson, M.D. 
The Joy of Running 
Thaddeus Kostrubala, M.D. 
1976, 1977; 176 pp. 
$2.20 postpaid from: 
Pocket Books 
Attn: Order Department 
1230 Avenue of 
the Americas 
New York, NY 10020 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
The slow, long-distance runner experiences a part of his 
unconscious. 
It is an altered state of consciousness... 
. 
There is often a complete relief of tension and anxiety. 
The runner is washed out from within. 
Beyond Jogging 
Advanced running. Breathing techniques, running medi- 
tation, and altered states. Mike Spino studied with the 
great running coaches Percy Wells Cerutty and Mihaly 
Igloi, and passes on some of their secrets. An additional 
bonus is the fine afterword, “Sport as Yoga,” 
by Michael 
Murphy, who has spent the last few years talking to high- 
performance athletes about the special powers, similar 
to the yoga siddhi, that arise during the performance 
of one’s sport. 
—Tom Ferguson, M.D. 
Beyond Jogging 
Mike Spino 
1976; 111 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Celestial Arts 
231 Adrian Road 
Millbrae, CA 94030 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
