Nene 
ee 
Eee 
ane 
————eEeEeeeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeeE—EeEeEE——ee————eeeee 
¢. res 
~ COMMUNICATIONS 
538 COMPUTER AGE 
Computer Power and Human Reason 
This book is a center of controversy amongst computerists, 
especially those working in the field of artificial intelli- 
gence. 
It has received extensive praise and criticism, stim- 
ulated a heated and often bitter debate in the technical 
journals and generally raised a ruckus. 
It accomplished all 
this by raising serious moral and ethical questions regard- 
ing the use and social impact of computers. 
My own attitude about this work is mixed — | feel the 
topic is important but the treatment is lacking. However 
it is unquestionably significant, if only because of its 
effects on the information processing community. 
—Marc Le Brun 
This was one of the first books | ever read on the subject 
of computing. 
Though | agree that its argument isn’t 
completely convincing, | can’t think of a better introduc- 
tion to the psycho-social issues in computer programming 
and artificial intelligence. 
—Art Kleiner 
Computer Power and 
Human Reason 
(From Judgement 
to Calculation) 
Joseph Weizenbaum 
1976; 300 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
W.H. Freeman and Co. 
660 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
° 
For my first experiment, | gave ELIZA a script designed 
to permit it to play (I should really say parody) the role 
of a Rogerian psychotherapist engaged in an initial 
interview with a patient. The Rogerian psychotherapist 
is relatively easy to imitate because much of his technique 
consists of drawing his patient out by reflecting the 
patient's statements back to him. The following conversa- 
tion between a young lady and ELIZA playing doctor 
illustrates both the Rogerian technique of encouraging a 
Patient to keep talking and the operation of the computer 
Program ELIZA. The first to ‘‘speak’’ is the young lady. 
The computer's responses are printed entirely in capitals. 
Men are all alike. 
IN WHAT WAY 
They're always bugging us about something or the other. 
CAN YOU THINK OF A SPECIFIC EXAMPLE 
Well, my boyfriend made me come here. 
YOUR BOYFRIEND MADE YOU COME HERE 
He says I’m depressed much of the time. 
| AM SORRY TO HEAR YOU ARE DEPRESSED 
It’s true. 
| am unhappy. 
DO YOU THINK COMING HERE WILL HELP YOU 
NOT TO BE UNHAPPY 
Principles of Interactive Computer Graphics 
The Bible of Computer Grafix. 
This is the second edition, 
and it’s really up-to-date with state of the art stuff. 
—Christopher Kent 
Principles of 
Interactive 
Computer Graphics 
William M. Newman 
and Robert F. Sproul! 
1973, 1979; 541 pp. 
$26.95 postpaid from: 
McGraw-Hill Book Co. 
Princeton Road 
Hightstown, NJ 08520 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
€— Use of a menu of colors 
for painting 
A computer-generated 
image of a teapot with 
simulated specular reflec- 
tions of light entering 
through a window 
ty 
Design and Memory 
A wise book about how civilization will adapt to comput- 
ing and vice versa. 
The authors are among the first to 
notice in print that the styles and practices of program- 
ming are already influencing the rest of the culture. 
The 
book looks forward to a shared intelligence between 
humans and computers, on the order of (but more inter- 
wovenly complex than) this dialog: Computer: “A 
and B have 4 similarities and 1,317 dissimilarities.” 
Person: “Yes, but the differences arent important, “ 
Peter Huyck and Nellie 
Kremenak are programmers who 
write English wittily and literately even by New Yorker 
standards. 
There’s a gem of insight into the human- 
machine relationship on practically every page of 
their book. 
—Art Kleiner 
Design and Memory 
(Computer Programming 
in the 20th Century) 
Peter H. Huyck and 
Nellie W. Kremenak 
1980; 152 pp. 
$1 1.95 postpaid from: 
McGraw-Hill Book Company 
Princeton Road 
Hightstown, NJ 08520 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Exercise for students 
We have some code which allows the banks to know more 
about us, but where is the code which allows us to know 
more about the banks? Write this code. 
Lewis Mumford described the clock as the ‘‘key-machine” 
of the modern industrial age and considered its invention 
more significant than that of the steam engine. 
“The clock, moreover, is a piece of power-machinery whose 
‘product’ is seconds and minutes: by its essential nature 
it dissociated time from human events and helped create 
the belief in an independent world of mathematically 
measurable sequences: the special world of science.” 
In the case of human/television interaction, the human 
is the more adaptive partner, and so there is a tendency 
for the human to adapt to the TV (watch whatever is on) 
rather than for the TV to adapt to the human (program- 
ming changes), which involves a long and complex feed- 
back loop. The same problem arises in a human/program- 
in-computing-machine partnership. The human can adapt 
quickly, but the feedback for the machine to adapt 
(particularly if the human is not a programmer) is long 
and complex. 
What is on television is due largely to accidents of history 
and the subsequent skewing of evolution by considera- 
tions of the marketplace. Current human/machine 
systems are also early accidents, and the systems of the 
future will evolve from them. We should tamper with 
existing systems in the direction of incorporating more 
sophisticated assumptions than are found in the average 
bit of FORTRAN so that the systems of the future will 
have evolved from happier accidents. As a minimum step 
toward this goal, the feedback loop for machine adapta- 
tion must be shortened so that machines will be at least 
as adaptable as humans —a 
tall order. Otherwise, the 
machines will win out as we adapt to them. 
It will not be 
an exotic win of the sci-fi type, but a win of drudgery, 
inconsequence, boredom, and stacks of output. 
| need some help, that much seems certain. 
WHAT WOULD IT MEAN TO YOU IF YOU GOT 
SOME HELP 
Perhaps | could learn to get along with my mother. 
TELL ME MORE ABOUT YOUR FAMILY 
My mother takes care of me. 
WHO ELSE IN YOUR FAMILY TAKES CARE OF YOU 
My father. 
YOUR FATHER 
You are like my father in some ways. 
WHAT RESEMBLANCE DO YOU SEE 
You are not very aggressive but | think you don't want 
me to notice that. 
WHAT MAKES YOU THINK | AM NOT 
VERY AGGRESSIVE 
You don't argue with me. 
WHY DO YOU THINK |! DON’T ARGUE WITH YOU 
You are afraid of me. 
DOES IT PLEASE YOU TO BELIEVE | AM AFRAID 
OF YOU 
My father is afraid of everybody. 
WHAT ELSE COMES TO MIND WHEN YOU THINK 
OF YOUR FATHER 
COMPUTER PARANOIA 
CUTS BOTH WAYS 
by Dirk Hanson 
A report compiled for the business community by 
Stanford Research Institute’s Business Intelligence 
Program has this to say: ‘““The reason (distributed 
processing) computer networks will not be avail- 
able to the general public at an earlier date is 
primarily one of security. At present, fraudulent 
input or access to a data base management system 
cannot be prevented.”’ (Italics mine.) 
This is a vital piece of information that the industry 
does not want you to know. There’s this security 
problem. Large, flexible time-shared computer 
systems are swiss cheese. Ask a programmer. 
Computer crime is a growth industry. Computer 
security is a myth. For every new data encryption 
system, there’s a programmer out there somewhere 
who can crack it. A program that sneaks you into 
an operating system is called a Trojan Horse. At 
most computer centers, the Trojan Horse is 
already inside the gates. 
Some grim worst-case scenarios might just be 
floating through corporate corridors these days. 
Striking British civil servants recently turned off 
key government computer systems, and the result 
was chaos. Some of the information and assets 
probably will not be recoverable. The strikers 
simply pulled the plugs. Crude, but effective. 
Bullies. 
DOES THAT HAVE ANYTHING TO DO WITH THE 
FACT THAT YOUR BOYFRIEND MADE YOU 
COME HERE... 
The shocks | experienced as DOCTOR became widely 
known and “‘played”’ were due principally to three 
distinct events. 
1. A number of practicing psychiatrists seriously believed 
the DOCTOR computer program could grow into a 
nearly completely automatic form of psychotherapy 
. 
2. | was startled to see how quickly and how very deeply 
people conversing with DOCTOR became emotionally 
involved with the computer and how unequivocally they 
anthropomorphized it. Once my secretary, who had 
watched me work on the program for many months and 
therefore surely knew it to be merely a computer program, 
started conversing with it... 
. 
3. Another widespread, and to me surprising, reaction to 
the ELIZA program was the spread of a belief that it 
demonstrated a general solution to the problem of com- 
puter understanding or natural language. 
In my paper, 
| had tried to say that no general solution to that problem 
was possible, i.e., that language is understood only in 
contextual frameworks, that even these can be shared by 
people to only a limited extent, and that consequently 
even people are not embodiments of any such 
general solution. 
[Note: the ELIZA program is available. See p. 532.] 
But what about the likelihood of more sophis- 
ticated guerilla tactics, as computer know-how 
spreads throughout the populace? 
Quite a quandary for industry people: They want 
you as a customer, but can they trust you? They 
need to sell you computers and teach you the 
mechanics of programming, but they don’t want 
to let you too far into the distributed processing 
loop. They need your business, but they’re 
scared of you. No kidding. As time goes by, you 
could become too smart for their own good. 
Computer paranoia cuts both ways. The industry 
may be nervous about widespread consumer 
participation in future networks, but it seems 
much less concerned about consumer privacy 
abuses in current systems. 
It’s common knowledge 
— at least it should be — that information which 
goes into such systems, information about you, 
your habits and activities, information from which 
your preferences can be deduced, is accessible to 
almost anyone. Credit records, criminal records, 
medical records, driving records, financial data — 
the whole gamut. Right now, most of it is 
fair game. 
It’s a muddy affair. Who decides who gets access 
to what? There’s reason to be wary of controls 
and limitations on access to digitized information, 
and equal reason to worry about what will happen 
if there are no such controls. The deciding in 
theory will be a sociopolitical matter; the accessing 
in truth will be by those who know how. And the 
what being accessed will be almost everything. 
= 
