t 
) 
USE 
REES 
OR A HUMAN CHARACTER to reveal truly 
exceptional qualities, one must have the good 
fortune to be able to observe its performance over 
many years. If this performance is devoid of all ego- 
ism, if its guiding motive is unparalleled generosity, 
if it is absolutely certain that there is no thought of 
recompense and that, in addition, it has left its visible 
mark upon the earth, then there can be no mistake. 
About forty years ago I was taking a long trip on 
foot over mountain heights quite unknown to 
tourists in that ancient region where the Alps thrust 
down into Provence. All this, at the time I embarked 
upon my long walk through these deserted regions, 
was barren and colorless land. Nothing grew there 
but wild lavender. 
I was crossing the area at its widest point, and after 
three days’ walking found myself in the midst of 
unparalleled desolation. I camped near the vestiges 
of an abandoned village. I had run out of water the 
day before, and had to find some. These clustered 
houses, although in ruins, like an old wasps’ nest, 
suggested that there must once have been a spring 
or well here. There was, indeed, a spring, but it 
was dry. The five or six houses, roofless, gnawed 
by wind and rain, the tiny chapel with its crumbling 
steeple, stood about like the houses and chapels in 
living villages, but all life had vanished. 
It was a fine June day, brilliant with sunlight, but 
over this unsheltered land, high in the sky, the wind 
blew with unendurable ferocity. It growled over 
the carcasses of the houses like a lion disturbed at 
its meal. 
| had to move my camp. 
After five hours’ walking I had still not found water, 
and there was nothing to give me any hope of 
finding any. All about me was the same dryness, 
the same coarse grasses. I thought I glimpsed in 
the distance a small black silhouette, upright, and 
took it for the trunk of a solitary tree. In any case 
I started towards it. It was a shepherd. Thirty sheep 
were lying about him on the baking earth. 
He gave me a drink from his watergourd and, a little 
later, took me to his cottage in a fold of the plain. 
He drew his water — excellent water — from a very 
deep natural well above which he had constructed 
a primitive winch. 
The man spoke little. This is the way of those who 
live alone, but one felt that he was sure of himself, 
and confident in his assurance. That was unexpected 
in this barren country. He lived, not in a cabin, but 
in a real house built of stone that bore plain evidence 
of how his own efforts had reclaimed the ruin he had 
found there on his arrival. His roof was strong and 
sound. The wind on its tiles made the sound of the 
sea upon its shores. 
The place was in order, the dishes washed, the floor 
swept, his rifle oiled; his soup was boiling over the 
fire. I noticed then that he was cleanly shaved, that 
all his buttons were firmly sewed on, that his clothing 
had been mended with the meticulous care that 
makes the mending invisible. He shared his soup with 
me and afterwards, when I offered my tobacco pouch, 
he told me that he did not smoke. His dog, as silent 
as himself, was friendly without being servile. 
It was understood from the first that I should spend 
the night there; the nearest village was still more than 
a day and a half away. And besides I was perfectly 
familiar with the nature of the rare villages in that 
region. There were four or five of them scattered 
well apart from each other on these mountain slopes, 
among white oak thickets, at the extreme end of 
the wagon roads. They were inhabited by charcoal- 
burners, and the living was bad. Families, crowded 
together in a climate that is excessively harsh both 
in winter and in summer found no escape from the 
unceasing conflict of personalities. Irrational am- 
bition reached inordinate proportions in the continual 
desire for escape. The men took their wagonloads 
of charcoal to the town, then returned. The soundest 
characters broke under the perpetual grind. The 
women nursed their grievances. There was rivalry 
in everything, over the price of charcoal as over a 
pew in the church. And over all there was the wind, 
also ceaseless, to rasp upon the nerves. There were 
epidemics of suicide and frequent cases of insanity, 
usually homicidal. 
The shepherd went to fetch a small sack and poured 
out a heap of acorns on the table. He began to 
inspect them, one by one, with great concentration, 
separating the good from the bad. I smoked my pipe. 
PLR 
I did offer to help him. He told me that it was his 
job. And in fact, seeing the care he devoted to the 
task, I did not insist. That was the whole of our 
conversation. When he had set aside a large enough 
pile of good acorns he counted them out by tens, 
meanwhile eliminating the small ones or those which 
were slightly cracked, for now he examined them 
more closely. When he had thus selected one hundred 
perfect acorns he stopped and he went to bed. 
There was peace in being with this man. The next day 
I asked if I might rest here for a day. He found it 
quite natural — or to be more exact, he gave me the 
impression that nothing could startle him. The rest 
was not absolutely necessary, but I was interested 
and wished to know more about him. He opened 
the pen and led his flocks to pasture. Before leaving, 
he plunged his sack of carefully selected and counted 
acorns into a pail of water. 
I noticed that he carried for a stick an iron rod as 
thick as my thumb and about a yard and a half long. 
Resting myself by walking, I followed a path parallel 
to his. His pasture was in a valley. He left the little 
flock in charge of the dog and climbed towards where 
I stood. I was afraid that he was about to rebuke me 
for my indiscretion, but it was not that at all: this 
was the way he was going, and he invited me to go 
along if I 
had nothing better to do. He climbed to 
the top of 
the ridge about a hundred yards away. 
There he began thrusting his iron rod into the earth, 
making a hole in which he planted an acorn; then he 
refilled the hole. He was planting an oak tree. I asked 
him if the land belonged to him. He answered no. 
Did he know whose it was? He did not. He supposed 
it was community property, or perhaps belonged to 
people who cared nothing about it. He was not 
interested in finding out whose it was. He planted 
his hundred acorns with the greatest care. After the 
midday meal he resumed his planting. I suppose I 
must have been fairly insistent in my questioning, 
for he answered me. For three years he had been 
planting trees in this wilderness. He had planted 
100,000. Of these, 20,000 had sprouted. Of the 
20,000 he still expected to lose about half to rodents 
or to the unpredictable designs of Providence. There 
remained 10,000 oak trees to grow where nothing 
had grown before. 
That was when I began to wonder about the age of 
this man. He was obviously over fifty. Fifty-five, 
he told me. His name was Elzeard Bouffier. He had 
once had a farm in the lowlands. There he had had 
his life. He had lost his only son, then his wife. He 
Planted Trees and 
an 
Grew Happiness 
by Jean Giono 
had withdrawn into this solitude, where his pleasure 
was to live leisurely with his lambs and his dog. It 
was his opinion that this land was dying for want of 
trees. He added that, having no very pressing business 
of his own, he had resolved to remedy this state 
of affairs. 
Since I was at that time, in spite of my youth, leading 
a solitary life, I understood how to deal gently with 
solitary spirits. But my very youth forced me to 
consider the future in relation to myself and to a 
certain quest for happiness. I told him that in thirty 
years his 10,000 oaks would be magnificent. He 
answered quite simply that if God granted him life, 
in thirty years he would have planted so many more 
that these 10,000 would be like a drop of water in 
the ocean. 
Besides, he was now studying the reproduction of 
beech trees and had a nursery of seedlings grown 
from beechnuts near his cottage. The seedlings, 
which he protected from his sheep with a wire fence, 
were very beautiful. He was also considering birches 
for the valleys where, he told me, there was a certain 
amount of moisture a few yards below the surface 
of the soil. 
The next day we parted. 
The following year came the War of 1914, in which 
I was involved for the next five years. An infantry- 
man hardly had time for reflecting upon trees. To 
tell the truth, the thing itself had made no impression 
upon me; I had considered it as a hobby, a stamp 
collection, and forgotten it. 
The war over, I found myself possessed of a tiny 
demobilization bonus and a huge desire to breathe 
fresh air for a while. It was with no other objective 
that I again took the road to the barren lands. 
The countryside had not changed. However, beyond 
the deserted village I glimpsed in the distance a sort 
of greyish mist that covered the mountaintops like a 
carpet. Since the day before, I had begun to think 
again of the shepherd tree-planter. “Ten thousand 
oaks,” I reflected, “really take up quite a bit of 
space.” I had seen too many men die during those 
five years not to imagine easily that Elzeard Bouffier 
was dead, especially since, at twenty, one regards 
men of fifty as old men with nothing left to do but 
die. He was not dead. As a matter of fact he was 
extremely spry. He had changed jobs. Now he had 
only four sheep but, instead, a hundred beehives. He 
had got rid of the sheep because they threatened his 
A man plants trees and a region is changed. His story is told and a world is changed. 
I’ve no idea how many times this 
account has been reprinted. Our reprint is by kind permission of Mr. Martin R. Haase, Executive Secretary of The Friends 
of Nature. 
You can buy copies of the story for $1 from Friends of Nature, c/o D. Smith, Brooksville, ME 04617. 
Illustrator Tom Parker, a former biologist, did the research to be sure he got the Provence landscape, barren and 
verdant, right. 
Is the story true? I’ve heard vociferous denials and confident affirmations. 
If someone will do the proper research and 
report on the question, we'll gladly print it in CoEvolution Quarterly. 
—SB 
yes aaa 
=, 
of 
b 
Phe)" 
oe 
