POPRIVETS — We use Poprivets for lots of things. 
Especially good for repairing sheet metal (as in car bodies) 
where welding isn’t practical. They'll work in leather, 
Masonite, plastic, too. 
SURPLUS SURGICAL TOOLS are often ergonomically 
excellent and are useful for precise work. Bone surgeon's 
drill and this hemostat aren’t really absolutely necessary 
in your shop, but are very satisfying to use. 
(Hemostat 
from Brookstone, p. 143) 
To test several schemes fora SOLAR HOT WATER HEAT- 
ER, we’re making up a number of identical new 5-gallon 
cans and covering them with a variety of heat-retaining 
skins. Then we'll race them. To have these made for us 
would not only be horrifyingly expensive, but we'd lose 
the experience gained by actually working with the 
various materials that we will be specifying eventually. 
SIMPLE JIG holds each 2 x 4 inserted for drilling in the 
same relative grip, and so each will have its hold in the 
same place. 
Be sure and blow out chips so part will fit 
snugly, and always mark jigs so you can detect if they are 
slowly moving as parts thump into place. CLAMPS are 
a good thing to have lots of. 
HITTERS — Wood handled hand sledge has been replaced 
by more reliable and better-balanced Estwing model. 
I'll 
give the old one away to a friend who has none and 
doesn't mind replacing the handle again. Our big sledge- 
hammer lives with ‘‘outdoor” tools hanging on the wall. 
Third hammer from left is a BB-filled ‘‘no-bounce,”" 
really great for sheet metal and chisel work. 
(U.S. 
General No. 433-1) 
i¢ =r 
| 
, 
ABRADER DEPARTMENT — Spring keeps files separate 
so you can see them, and also keeps files from filing each 
other. Drawer lining is indoor-outdoor carpet. 
BANDIT — Designed for making hose clamps on the job, 
this tool can be used for banding just about anything 
with a variety of band sizes and metals. This was used to 
make dome hubs, band concrete forms, secure crates, 
make barrels, extend tipi poles, repair broken spars on 
sailboats, reinforce porch railings, etc., etc. 
HOLE CUTTER making discs. 
1 have a small town 
phonebook in my shirt just in case something lets go. 
I’ve picked metal out of it twice. 
It doesn’t take a Ph.D. 
thesis to tell you that certain tools require a certain 
FAT SCREWDRIVERS — Big handles, heavy blade, 
compact size, make Sears No. 41586 and Irwin our favo- 
rite screwdrivers. Square shank allows help with wrench. 
You can’t own too many screwdrivers, as they grow legs 
easily, and there are so many screw sizes. 
caution. Be extra careful as you go through the super- 
cool, smarty-pants phase of tool familiarity. Except for 
rare freak accidents, few tools will cut things that you 
don’t deliberately feed them. 
SAWS AND SNIPS DEPARTMENT — Don't get hung up 
on tool names. “Tin snips” can cut lots of other things 
such as leather. The three identical-looking guys are 
“aircraft snips” and they aren't identical at all. The 
yellow handled ones cut straight; the green handled ones 
cut righthanded circles or curves and are just the thing 
for lefthanded people; the redhandled ones cut left as 
you might expect. 
HOLE-MAKING DEPARTMENT gets heaviest use, 
partly because the rotary devices are so versatile in other 
modes. Assortment of hand drills is because we often 
work where there is no power available. Their lair is 
rather deep for a photo, so I've had them sit on the 
step for a class portrait. 
ASSORTED UNSORTABLE DEPARTMENT — You 
didn’t really think that there was a way around having 
one of these did you? Nobody, including me, knows 
what's in here. 
