a 
320 
ie 
ae 
“70 
HOT 
Hot Tubs 
Hot Tubs, Spas and Home Saunas 
These two books demonstrate how far the phenomenon 
of hot tubs has come — from a bohemian invention of 
Southern Californians in 1958 to a practically de rigeur 
luxury item for the financially or hedonistically rich. 
Hot Tubs is by the bohemians and tells why to, with very 
sketchy 
practical advice. 
Hot Tubs, Spas & Home 
Saunas is by Sunset magazine, that citadel of upwardly 
mobile niftiness, and has superb how to diagrams and 
advice and nota single naked human being. (What kind 
of hysterical prude would wear a bathing suit in a hot 
tub? Why not wear a raincoat?) 
/f you get or make a hot tub, your friends will love you 
the more. 
It can be expensive. For a practical very-low- 
cost a/ternative, see my own “Better Bathtub” on p. 332. 
—SB 
Hot Tubs 
(How to Build, Maintain 
and Enjoy Your Own 
Winter & Summer All 
Year Round) 
Leon Elder 
1973, 1978; 111 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Vintage Books 
Random House 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Hot Tubs, Spas and 
Home Saunas 
(Sunset Ideas for 
Landscaping and Design) 
Jack McDowell, 
Barbara G. Gibson, et al. 
1979; 80 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
Lane Publishing Co. 
Menlo Park, CA 94025 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
The best time is at night, in windy rain, an old oak groan- 
ing and creaking overhead. Naked and shivering, you 
stare at the steaming pool and put one foot in. The sting- 
ing tells you it’s being cooked, yet other people are in up 
to their chins, laughing and beckoning. The cold rain 
encourages you in the cauldron. A searing line slowly 
rises to your chin and you don’t dare move. Then within 
five minutes you feel melted and happy, even into your 
NY 
TUBS & SAUN 
—Hot Tubs 
The Basic Hot Tub 
Adjustable hydro jets 
/ 
Seat shelf 
Removable cover 
system) 
1 
4 
4 Lug 
Compression 
oops. 
PVC pipe 
+ ito support 
system) 
Air bubbler 
(optional) 
Duckboards 
Joists 
Tubs offer a surprising range of choices in size and shape. as well as equipment 
—Hot Tubs, Spas 
& Home Saunas 
bones. Someone passes a glass of wine. Pelted by rain, it 
bubbles like champagne. 
Fifteen minutes later you rise 
into the wind — it feels delicious. Now you understand 
how the Finns can run naked from a sauna to hurl them- 
selves into the snow. You sink easily back into the water 
again and gaze at the nude people, some standing in halos 
of steam, others hunched down to their chins. They all 
appear curiously pleased with themselves, and you think 
— what bliss! 
—Hot Tubs 
The Sauna Book 
I’m not a bit sure whether increasing use of saunas is a 
sign of advanced civilization or advanced decadence, 
Either way, everything needed is here — how to enjoy, 
how to build, unusual sauna /ore, and detailed review and 
access on manufacturers. A nice job. One tip: if youre 
building a house and sauna, build the sauna first and 
you ‘ll have a nice place to relax from house construction. 
—SB 
The Sauna Book 
Tom Johnson and 
Tim Miller 
1977; 193 pp. 
$7 .95 postpaid from: 
Harper & Row 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
The Best Cheap Stove You Can Get 
We spent a long time trying to figure out how you could 
get an electric or gas sauna stove without spending much 
money. 
For a while we played with a homemade stove 
utilizing the heating element from the oven of an aban- 
doned electric stove but never quite got the kinks worked 
out of it. Then Gerhard Zuther, who lives right in the 
neighborhood, showed us his. Friends, he has the answer. 
Gerhard’s stove is made from an old water heater. Water 
heaters are normally abandoned because the tank has a 
small leak, not because the heating unit (be it electric or 
gas) is faulty. This means that they are just fine for our 
purposes, since what we're after is something that will 
(a) heat and (b) hold stones. 
water heaters hold 20 or 30 gallons; 10 gallons of volume 
will be plenty for your stones. At this point you will 
probably have to get some help, unless you have a cutting 
torch, but at any rate the cost should be low. Gerhard 
bought his gas water heater in a junkyard for $2.50, and 
the proprietor made the necessary cut for an additional 
two bucks. 
Incidentally, contemporary water heaters are usually 
lined with fiberglass, but many old ones are not. You will 
want one that is not. 
| 
Nippa Sauna Heater 
The Japanese-type hot bath, with a wood-burning firebox, 
is excellent, but the fireboxes are hard to make and 
impossible to buy from Japan. 
The Japanese bath also 
uses a lot of water, which can be a problem if you have to 
pump or carry water any distance. 
One answer is the sweat-lodge/sauna. An earth-lodge will 
do, or better a cedar-lined room with a high bench and a 
drain in the floor. 
Carrying hot rocks can be tiresome; 
the best arrangement we've found is this wood-burning 
sauna stove made by the Nippa company 
in Michigan. 
We use the WC 22 model, holds a lot of wood, heats 15 
gallons of water to a rolling boil in 20 minutes, heats the 
rocks on top at the same time, doesnt use much wood 
actually, and keeps the sauna room hot for hours. Expen- 
sive, but will last several lifetimes and keep maybe 2 
dozen people clean and happy. (Another wood-burning 
sauna heater on p. 207.) 
—Gary Snyder 
Nippa Sauna Heaters 
WC-18, 18” deep 
$339.95 plus shipping 
WC-22, 22"’ deep 
$359.95 plus shipping 
Brochure 
free from: 
Nippa Sauna Heaters 
P.O. Box 213 
Bruce Crossing, 
MI 49912 
Native American sweating 
The Native American sweat house ritual is varied and 
complex — some groups separate the sexes, i.e., don’t 
sweat together (Nez Perce for example); others sweat 
communally. The social, psychological and physiological 
advantages of sweating are numerous and not to my 
knowledge adequately researched (Finnish data is best). 
This Nez Perce (contemporary) sweat house will sweat 
four to six: 
You need: 
e 
5-7 green, usually deciduous, poles, approximately 
15’ in length 
e 
1 ball sturdy twine or if a purist, rawhide strips 
e 
blankets — Nez Perce use blankets of wool; old coats, 
clean gunny sacks, any pliable insulating material of 
cloth will do, get plenty! 
e@ 
2pitch forks 
e 
1 20-gallon can — not absolutely necessary 
e 
218''- 20" sticks, 1" or so in diameter 
1 
You will need a location near water (usually a stream) — 
cleared of all brush and undergrowth. An area 30’ in 
diameter will do depending on local conditions. Stream 
must be deep enough to allow submergence of one’s body. 
2 
The shape of wickiup-type lodge will be semi-hemispheri- 
cal about 8’ or so in diameter. Construct the frame by 
holding green poles in proper shape over a fire (small) and 
slightly dry poles which will hold curved shape better. Tie 
the poles together with twine thereby maintaining shape. 
3 
Cover the frame with insulating material — 3 or 4 layers 
will suffice. 
Leave no spaces! The lodge must be nearly 
air-tight. 
| use an initial layer of plastic tarping to aid in 
heat retention — although | dislike its negative appeal. 
Leave a door just big enough to enter — you can hitcha 
cross-piece to the frame of the lodge and hang several 
blankets off it making sure an adequate seal is formed. 
4 
Dig a small depression inside the door and to the right — 
this becomes the receptacle for the red-hot rocks. Should 
be 10” deep and 25 - 30” in diameter. 
Line this hole with 
good rocks (see definition of a good sweat rock, 
which follows). 
5 
Gather 30 or so sweat rocks. A good rock is hard to find. 
My best luck has been with slightly vesicular basalt, sub- 
angular and about twice the size of a brick. Test rocks 
by heating over fire to a red hot glow — sprinkle over 
with water. 
If the rocks spit and hiss but do not explode 
or crack — you may have a good rock. River rocks have 
been my best source, i.e. subangular basalt cobbles. 
Granite is too heterogeneous. 
6 
Gather wood — the best wood is usually the hardest to 
procure. Most deciduous wood burns hotter but it is 
harder to find. 
| use anything | feel right about. Never 
cut a green tree for firewood or for any stupid reason. 
Use dead wood, stumps. You needa 
lot. Build your 
fire place next to, but too close to, your sweat lodge, 
which is hopefully next to, but not too close to, the 
water, Stack your fire logs, crisscrossing to achieve a 
sturdy and fairly flat top, on which you evenly distribute 
your rocks. 
Fire is fairly big and hence you will need 
adequate precautionary measures. 
7 
Light fire. Usually this takes 45 minutes to an hour or 
even longer depending on wood. The rocks fall through 
to the ground and become ash-covered. This is where the 
pitch forks come in. The rocks should actually be red hot 
and you will need them to pass the rocks into the house. 
One individual must receive and arrange the rocks in the 
receptacle pit so he will need the two sticks. By the way, 
the house is only about 3%’ high in the center so this 
individual is on his knees. The pitch fork will facilitate 
cleaning burning ashes and embers from the rocks in the 
transferring process — these ashes would cause smoke 
in the lodge. Line floor of lodge with clean gunny sacks 
— cheap and available at any feed store. 
8 
After the rocks are all in place, all can climb in (naked of 
course) and enjoy. The host tends the rocks by sprinkling 
small amounts of water on top which cause increased 
humidity. 
| use pungent water, made by using certain 
roots; these cause a delightful fragrance. Sweat house 
lore says you should be serious or at least not too playful. 
When you are well heated and feel ready for the water — 
do indulge. Most serious sweaters consider the plunge 
into the water and the accompanying sensations to be 
the best part of sweating. Three times in the sweat house 
should be enough — an effective contraceptive too. 
—Greg Cleveland 
Albuquerque, New Mexico 
WICKIUP FRAME 
