a. © es 
148 TOOL SUPPLIERS 
a 
ee eee 
ed 
~ SOFT TECHNOLOGY 
Breaking the Wholesale 
Barrier 
Fury! Recently I wanted to buy a vise. The 
downtown hardware store had it for $59.95. 
Last 
year the same vise was $25 in the same store, and 
the year before it was $13. Other vises, even by 
the same authors, only became a bit more expensive, 
so increased material costs couldn’t be the expla- 
nation. | looked for it in U.S. General and found 
them asking about $45. Silvo had the same vise 
for ten bucks less. 
A moment on the phone to a 
friend with a wholesale catalog said it was $25 
there. The wholesaler had probably paid about 
$15 or so, though that is a hard fact to find out. 
Well . 
. 
. either the thing is worth $59.95 or $25 
but not both! 
Isn’t that maddening? Few things 
horn me off more! 
by J. Baldwin 
The retailer will claim that his overhead makes it 
necessary to have the high price, and that is 
what you must pay for the privilege of being able 
to see it, fondle it, and take it with you right then. 
Don’t let ’°em fool you. Just down the street at 
the wholesaler’s store, you can do the same thing, 
only without fancy graphics and a flashy pot-and- 
pan department. What it comes down to is that 
except in relatively remote areas where there are 
no wholesalers, the retail store is basically a rip. 
The question then becomes, how do you get into 
the wholesale store? 
I use several tricks to accomplish this noble aim. 
Best and easiest is to make a deal with someone 
you know with a “‘resale number.” In most states, 
this number is furnished for tax reasons; the 
person with the number doesn’t have to pay tax 
=. 
=a 
a 
a 
on something that will be later sold to someone 
else. It is assumed by wholesalers that the holder 
of a resale number is in effect a retailer and thus 
eligible for the retailers’ discount — typically 40%. 
Who has such a number? Contractors do. Archi- 
tects do. Repair shops do. Tradesmen do. Does 
your uncle have a plumbing business? 
Ask him if 
you can use his number to get into Grainger’s. 
I recently used the number of a solar home con- 
tractor and nabbed an air compressor for exactly 
half the Sears (sale) price for the same rig. It is 
considered good etiquette to offer the contractor 
friend maybe ten bucks for the paperwork time. 
It is also a good idea to order in quantity and not 
bother people for a discount on a single two-dollar 
item. Don’t press your luck. Under some circum- 
stances, it may be reasonable for you to incorporate 
and get your own number. 
It’s worth considering. 
(I did it once. 
Sure was worth it. Best technique, 
I think. 
—SB) 
Another ploy that sometimes works when all else 
fails is to dress like a carpenter or whatever trade is 
appropriate and brazen it out. Walk right in and 
say, “‘We need another 500 feet of Romex... I 
have the cash!’ 
If you look the part, you may 
make it. I’ve done that plenty, but only since I’ve 
deployed a few grey hairs in my old age. Do not 
try this bitif you only need small stuff, they won’t 
be interested. But a hundred buck order may 
tempt them into not being so stuffy about it, 
especially at a wholesale counter (that’s what it 
is called) where the people behind it work on 
commission. 
I have many times buttered up a 
certain clerk who looks friendly. Use his name. 
Or you can call up first and say “Schwartz Plumb- 
ing is sending someone down to pick up 65 feet of 
2 inch pipe.” (If you are male, have a female 
play “‘secretary”’ for this play.) A pet clerk 
makes this especially easy. 
It’s illegal too, for you 
are avoiding tax payments in such activities. Be 
cool, If they ask for a tax number, say ‘‘Shit, Mr. 
Schwartz didn’t give it to me and I forget it,” and 
see what happens. You may get away with it, 
especially if this comes up, as it often does, after 
your order has been delivered to the counter and 
the paper is all made out. Have cash on hand, 
in about the right change if you want to be 
asked back. Just pay the tax and shut up. 
Another play is to confer a bottle of Cutty Sark 
or perhaps a sixpack on the clerk of your choice 
at a suitable time. 
I’ve done this too. 
It works. 
A trifle more complex deal can sometimes be 
worked out by approaching a contractor who is 
obviously pricing out a job and have him add your 
order to his. This isan effective way to buy lumber 
and other building supplies, because your order 
makes his order bigger and may get him (and you) 
an even bigger discount at the lumber yard. 
That’ll typically save you about 25%. A similar 
play can sometimes be made if your own order is 
big enough. If you are buying $5,000 worth of 
plywood, you can wheel and deal yourself. Ask to 
see the boss and make an offer. Hem and haw. 
They want your business. Different houses have 
different straightness of policy, so shop around, 
|
and tell ‘em you’re going to do that. Be hard. 
|
And remember even your local True Value store 
may give you 10% if you’re a regular customer or 
|
buy in quantity. Ask! 
|
|
Never, never go into a wholesale deal not knowing 
the terminology, model numbers, etc. You have 
to know what you want. You have to act like a 
pro to be treated like one. With a bit of practice 
you should be able to buy nearly anything whole- 
sale with the exception of small quantities of low- 
priced items. It’s satisfying to break the wholesale 
barrier. Ego satisfying too — a tribute to your 
acting ability. Good Luck! 
= 
Chilton’s Hardware Age Buyer’s Guide 
Though you can’t order direct from here (it’s intended for 
“the trade“) you can get a good idea of who makes what, 
and more importantly IF something is made. 
Catalogs 
such as this can save you a Jot of trouble making some- 
thing that can actually be better bought — sort of a Poor 
Man‘s Thomas Register. 
You can get addresses here. 
—J. Baldwin 
[Suggested by Roger Knights] 
e 
e 
FIREPLACE BELLOWS 
Building Products Mfg. Co. 
TREE WOUND SEALERS 
Christen Inc. 
& Son Inc. 
Hart Fireplace Furnishings 
J & L Adikes Inc. 
Marian Hearthside Products 
Dynatron/Bondo 
Ongard — See 
Vogelzang Brothers Inc. 
Portland Willamette Co. 
Seymour Mfg. Co. 
J & L Adikes Inc. 
Vogelzang Brothers Inc. 
Heal-Rite — See 
e 
Nott Mfg. Co. Inc. 
TRACTOR TIRE PUMPS 
Snap-Cut — See Seymour 
Deming Div. Crane Co. 
Smith & Son Inc. 
Flexroller — See Hypro 
The Tanglefoot Co. 
Flexrotor — See Hypro 
Corp (Spray) 
John H. Graham Co. Inc. 
Gro-Well — See 
Seymour Smith & Son Inc. 
Hardware Age 
Buyer’s Guide 
(The ‘‘Who Makes It” 
Buyer’s Guide issue of 
Hardware Age Magazine) 
Published every December 
$10 postpaid from: 
Hardware Age 
Chilton Company 
Chilton Way 
Radnor, PA 19087 
Thomas Register of American Manufacturers 
Let it all hang out: 16 volumes, 20,000 pages, 100,000 
product ads, 140,000 classifications. It’s the great Ameri- 
can industrial yellow pages — and like the yellow pages, 
an education. 
If the Sears Catalog will tell you where 
American consumption is at TR tells you what’s happening 
in production. And if you‘re trying to make the switch 
toward production, TR can help you find what you need. 
—SB 
Thomas Register can often be gotten FREE (also last 
year’s) by approaching industrial libraries, or even the 
local Public Library, who generally get swamped by 
everybody’s old edition. Big businesses make a real thing 
out of keeping up to date and Thomas doesn ‘t update 
with supplements — new 16 volumes every year. 
—Peter Heinlein 
Thomas Register 
$120 (16 volumes) 
from: 
Thomas Register 
Sales Division 
310 E. 44th St. 
New York, NY 10017 
Thomas’ 
and Sweet's are also most useful if you need to 
know where the manufacturer of that hard-to-find 
tool lives. 
—Art Kleiner 
(ionoShield 
Allsafe’s MonoShield® adds to the advantages of Allsafe 
FogGard™ MonoGoggles* with a tough acetate-plastic 
shield that attaches securely to the MonoGoggle for full- 
face and eye protection, 
MonoGoggle FogGard lenses cannot fog ever, in any en 
vironment or under any circumstances: humid atmosphere, 
ambient vapors, body heat, temperature changes. 
They 
are permanently Hydron*-bonded to absorb moisture in 
visibly. The MonoShield thus provides full-face protection 
with the FogGard MonoGoggle’s 
benefits of fog-free 
vision 
The MonoGoggle is quickly snapped into the Mono- 
Shield, and can be as quickly removed for cleaning or re- 
placement of either component, 
It is lightweight and dis- 
tortion-free, and can be worn over spectacles and with 
most types of respirators. 
See the dramatic difference MonoShield can make in 
your 
operation, 
Order 
it in combination 
with Mono. 
Goggles, or separately for your present supply of Mono- 
Goggles. 
NEO-SPONGE COMFORT MATS ns-900) 
Sweet’s Files 
It’s a shame some of the best too/s are the hardest to get 
to. Though Sweet's are free, they are given only to public 
libraries in cities of more than 250,000 people and to the 
10,000 most active architectural firms in the U.S. 
/t’s 
often possible to talk a local architect out of /ast year’s 
edition if you speak for it early. They do not become 
obsolete just because they are a year or two old. 
Sweet's is essentially a catalog of catalogs, a filing system 
ina yard of volumes which binds, lists and cross-references 
catalogs of manufacturers. 
It covers six areas that | know 
of: Industrial, Residential and Commercial Construction 
and Product, Interior and Plant Design. Each file in these 
areas is a separate entity. 
The commercial construction 
file is the one most architects have and for any one 
building, it is the most useful. 
It is very helpful when 
improvising details for it provides a full spectrum of what 
is already available for the ready made answers to most 
problems. Manufacturers usually do a pretty good job 
with the material they include in the files so there’s not 
much left to question as to how their product works. 
/f there is any question, the manufacturer's representative 
is usually listed, with his phone number and address. 
He’ll usually bend over backwards to help you if you say 
you saw it in Sweet's. 
—Onyx 
There is one thing that you should keep in mind when 
using Sweet’s Files: What is shown there is not all that 
is available. 
In fact, much of what’s there is pretty 
mundane and tends to be the lowest price in order to 
attract the eye of the cost estimator who is making out 
the company bid on a job. “Sweet's File Architecture” 
— what you see in the sleaziest developments — is all too 
often the result. Watch it. 
—J. Baldwin 
Sweet's Files 
Distributed by Sweet's 
Construction Division 
McGraw-Hill Information 
, Systems Company 
1221 Avenue of 
the Americas, 21st floor 
New York, NY 10020 
Not for sale. Check 
your public library. 
Translucent Spires 
—} 
Wiedemann Transfucent Spires ar 
designed to be lighted internally. 
The dignity of the church edifice 
be emphasized by the warm, even 
glow: of the translucent spire, as it 
quietly points the way to the chu 
by day and by night. The designs 
shown in this brochure will enab! 
you to select a style compatible 
your building. Constructed of an 
dized aluminum ribbing and trans 
lucent plastic panels. 
