is exceedingly difficult to read a language without hearing 
it, and the child’s best access to the vast diversity of 
rhythm, syntax, grammar, etc. in our language is through 
literature, read aloud and enjoyed as a daily family event. 
There is nothing to equal it, and its worth goes far beyond 
the realm of teaching. How many difficult days we have 
weathered by knowing that at the end there will be at 
least this one happy constant: the next chapter of 
Dickens, or E.B. White, or Arthur Ransome. 
Following is a very partial list of books we have read 
aloud and loved, and often reread again. Most of them 
are available at libraries or in paperback editions, and 
/ve given the paperback publishers when possible. 
GOOD READING 
For younger kids: 
The Tomten, The Tomten and the Fox, Christmas in the 
Stable, Astrid Lindgren and Harold Wiberg; Coward, 
McCann & Geoghegan. 
Mike Mulligan and His Steam Shovel, Virginia Lee Burton; 
Houghton Mifflin. 
The Bee-man of Orn, Frank R. Stockton; Holt Owlet. 
Father Fox’s Pennyrhymes, Clyde and Wendy Watson; 
Scholastic Book Services. 
The Sam Pig Storybook, Alison Uttley; Merrimack 
Book Service (Faber). 
Make Way for Ducklings, Robert McCloskey; Penguin. 
The Little Red Lighthouse and the Great Gray Bridge, 
Hildegarde H. Swift and Lynd Ward; Harcourt Brace 
Jovanovich (Voyager). 
Once Under the Cherry Blossom Tree, Allen Say; 
Harper and Row. 
The Golden Egg Book, Margaret Wise Brown and Leonard 
Weisgard; Golden Press (Western Publishing Company). 
Goodnight Moon and The Runaway Bunny, Margaret 
Wise Brown; Harper and Row. 
The Poky Little Puppy and The Lively Little Rabbit, 
Little Golden Books. 
Corgiville Fair, Tasha Tudor; Crowell. 
Rabbit Hill, Robert Lawson; Dell Yearling. 
The Rise and Fall of Ben Gizzard, Richard Kennedy; 
Atlantic (Little, Brown and Company). 
The Story About Ping, Marjorie Flack and Kurt Wiese; 
Puffin (Penguin). 
And Beatrix Potter, always (most published by Creative 
Education Books). 
For older or even elderly kids: 
The Mouse and His Child, Russell Hoban; Avon Camelot. 
The Borrowers, The Borrowers Afield, etc., Mary Norton; 
Harcourt Brace. 
The Story of the Treasure Seekers, The Wouldbegoods, 
The Railway Children, etc., E. Nesbit; Puffin (Penguin). 
The Children of Green Knowe, A Stranger at Green 
Knowe, etc., Lucy Boston; Harcourt Brace Jovanovich. 
The Witch of Blackbird Pond, The Bronze Bow, Elizabeth 
George Speare; Dell or Houghton-Mifflin. 
The Wolves of Willoughby Chase, Black Hearts in Batter- 
sea, etc., Joan Aiken; Dell Yearling. 
Swallows and Amazons, Swallowdale, We Didn't Mean to 
Go to Sea, etc., Arthur Ransome; Puffin Books or 
Jonathan Cape. 
The Story of Doctor Doolittle, et al., Hugh Lofting; 
Dell Yearling. 
The Book of Three, The High King, etc., Lloyd Alexander; 
Dell Yearling. 
Charlotte’s Web, Stuart Little, The Trumpet of the Swan, 
E.B. White; Dell Yearling. 
The Animal Family, Randall Jarrell; Dell Yearling. 
No Way of Telling, Emma Smith; Atheneum. 
The Secret Garden, Frances Hodgson Burnett; Dell. 
Naftali the Storyteller and His Horse, Sus, lsaac Bashevis 
Singer; Dell Yearling. 
The Moon in the Cloud, The Shadow on the Sun, The 
Bright and Morning Star, The Seal Singing, Rosemary 
Harris; Macmillan. 
The Little House in the Big Woods, Farmer Boy, etc., 
Laura Ingalls Wilder; Harper and Row. 
Tuck Everlasting, Natalie Babbitt; Bantam. 
Kim, Rudyard Kipling; Dell. 
Inside My Feet, Richard Kennedy; Harper and Row. 
The Fledgling, Jane Langton; Harper and Row. 
David Copperfield, Great Expectations, Charles 
Dickens; Penguin. 
LEARNING 
TEACHING 
Teacher 
Human Characteristics and School Learning 
Teacher is as unphony, warm, and appealing as the 
grubby, tear-streaked face of a child, it is also an 
important technical notebook for educators. 
Miss 
Ashton-Warner’s organic approach to reading and writing 
is a detailed enough account to be explored further by 
teachers anywhere. 
It is of especial value to teachers 
working with primary children, students with a cu/tural 
or language barrier, and adult illiterates. 
—Carol Guyton Goodell 
Teacher 
Sylvia Ashton-Warner 
1963; 224 pp. 
$2.25 postpaid from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, |L 60016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Noise, noise, noise, yes. But if you don’t like noise, 
don't be a teacher. 
e 
But there are two kinds of order, and which is the one 
we wish for? 
Is it the conscious order that ends up as 
respectability? Or is it the unconscious order that looks 
like chaos on the top? There is a separate world on each 
side of this question mark. 
Any Child Can Write 
For an excellent example of exactly the sort of teaching 
Bloom describes in Human Characteristics and School 
Learning here is Harvey Wiener’s Any Child Can Write. 
Every parent who has any hopes for raising literate 
children should read it. The sad truth is, schools are not 
teaching children to write, even the simplest forms of 
expression. 
In one high school | know, seniors are offered 
a special course in filling out job applications, as many 
of them lack the skills necessary for even so basic a task 
as answering standard application-form questions! One of 
the commitments of parenthood is to take responsiblity 
for our children’s education, starting before school begins 
and continuing throughout the school years. No teacher 
has as much time, energy and interest to spare fora 
particular student as its own parent has, or should have. 
Wiener’s book is an enjoyable, encouraging handbook 
for such a parent. 
One aspect of Bloom’s theory that is clearly apparent in 
Wiener’s practice is the importance of interaction between 
teacher (parent) and child. As Wiener points out, it is 
the parent’s interest in details of the child’s experience 
(“A frog? What color was it? Did it bite? What did it 
feel like?”) that give the child a sense of the importance 
of his experience (and therefore himself) and the worth 
of communicating it. This is the basis for a child’s future, 
at home, in school, in the great wide world — that he feel 
important and that his ideas and experiences are worth 
communicating. 
Yet so often from an early age children 
are denied this simple gift from the persons closest to 
them. 
In this respect the great value of Wiener’s book 
goes beyond the teaching of writing. His activities and 
games all begin with the parent tuning in on the child’s 
world, responding, appreciating, asking questions, offering 
related personal experiences, encouraging further descrip- 
tion and narrative. 
It’s not a one-way street. Such a parent is bound to dis- 
cover new and delightful insights and ideas in the child, 
Freddy the Pig Books, Walter R. Brooks; Knopf (out of 
print, some reissued in paper). 
Mistress Masham’s Repose, T.H. White; G.P. Putnam's 
Sons (Berkeley). 
The Fabulous Flight, Robert Lawson (notin print currently). 
Meet the Austins, The Young Unicorns, The Arm of the 
Starfish, A Ring of Endless Light, Madeline L'Engle; 
Dell or Vanguard. 
The Adventures of Tintin, Herge; French and European 
Publications, Inc. (Watch out for these, they are addictive 
to adults, and some children may also be affected.) 
Special Books to Keep: 
The Oxford Book of Children’s Verse, lona and Peter 
Opie; Oxford University Press. 
An Inheritance of Poetry, edited by Gladys L. Adshead 
and Annis Duff; Houghton-Mifflin. 
Fun With String Figures, W.W. Rouse Ball; Dover. 
String Figures and How to Make Them, Caroline F. 
Jayne; Dover. 
Take Joy, Tasha Tudor; Collins/World. = 
ites 
p 
610.0) 
M06 
(80) 
0 
0:'6).6 
(610 
¢ 6 
6.6 
© 
It’s Bloom’s contention that differences in school learning 
are largely man-made and not due toa natural stratification 
of talent; the differences persist because the organization 
of education is designed to make them persist. 
Bloom offers an alternative whereby nearly everyone 
gets “top grades” without lowering standards: students 
are given periodic feedback on their progress and oppor- 
tunities to correct mistakes or inadequacies. Most of the 
studies Bloom draws on for evidence deal with elementary 
and high school level coursework, but he believes the 
theory is applicable to all areas of learning (with some 
reservation about the fine arts). 
This is one of the most exciting books I’ve run across 
in my studies (for an M.A.). 
The man has impeccable 
credentials — any education major will have run across 
his name dozens of times. 
His emphasis on the impor- 
tance of feedback is what originally made me think of 
submitting the book to you. 
—Steven A. Kvaal 
McGraw-Hill 
Book Company 
Princeton Road 
Hightstown, NJ 08520 
Human Characteristics 
and School Learning 
Benjamin S. Bloom 
1976; 284 pp. 
or Whole Earth 
$1 7.95 postpaid from: 
Household Store 
e 
Modern societies no longer can content themselves with 
the selection of ta/ent; they must find the means for 
developing talent. 
nn 
ee 
———————————— 
and make the acquaintance of a unique and stimulating 
individual in a mere son or daughter. 
Two suggestions: 
If you are already at the difficu/t point where communi- 
cation — interaction — between you and your child is 
awkward or nonexistent, you have to take a deliberately 
low-key initiative. 
Exploit an incident — any incident, 
even a potentially negative one — and communicate your 
interest by contributing an off-hand experience of your 
own: “Oh god, | left my jacket on the playground once, 
and when | finally found it a mouse had built her nest 
in the pocket.” Offer enough detail to spark some 
interest, hopefully to inspire curiosity (“Really? She 
had babies in it? What did you do?”’). 
It may take 
several or many efforts, but eventually the child comes 
to see you are interested enough in his experiences — 
good or bad — to relate them to your own. 
One often neglected but most important element in com- 
municating with children (or adults or any other animal, 
as Kipling well knew!) is eye contact. 
Even newborns 
respond to it. Your eyes are your most effective means 
of nonverbal communication: they can belie or rein- 
force anything you say. Even the most “difficult” and 
withdrawn child will respond to a conspiratorial twinkle 
or appreciative glance from a total stranger and seek out 
that person’s eyes when they meet again. 
You can 
control what your eyes are saying as accurately as you 
can your voice, and often with far more impact. 
“Across 
a crowded room” you can communicate approval, disap- 
proval, excitement, expectant interest, comfort, admira- 
tion, fear, etc. 
To the child, this is the beginning of 
meaningful exchange, a special language between you 
two alone — “We have a secret, youand!/...” Eye 
contact is the cornerstone of trust, and the bridge from 
there to words and friendship is a short, happy one. 
—Carol Van Strum 
Any Child Can Write 
(How to Improve Your 
Child’s Writing Skills 
from Preschool 
through High School) 
Harvey S. Wiener 
1978; 255 pp. 
$9 95 postpaid from: 
McGraw-Hill 
Book Company 
Princeton Road 
Hightstown, NJ 08520 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
eee 
eee 
eee 
eee eee eee 
ee eee eeeeeeeee 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
Things about tidelands: 
1. Loren Eiseley said that we are so absorbed in 
watching our own end games as a species that we 
aren’t watching the tidelands closely enough to 
see the next adventurer leave the mud to start’ 
the next chain. | 
continued on next spread 
yes oa 
Or Tee, 
ri 
: 
, 
