Illustrating Priestley’s 
eX 
discovery of oxygen 
ay 
Science for All (An Illustrated Encyclopedia). 
Typical of 
the random reference access methods is the flip- through- 
and-see-what-gives technique. 
Take Volume I! (which has 
no date except a stamp from the Gualala, CA Post Office 
Library of 1923), for instance. Break it open halfway and 
quickly flip to the front, then back to the middle and flip 
to the end. 
Very surprising what you find. 
Library of Natural History, edited by Richard Lydekker 
(1904). The be all, end all of crib books — steel engravings 
up the wazoo, techniques by the dozen and all the animals 
of creation. 
| paid $10 for the set at the flea market. 
Many of these images are reproduced in The Animal 
Kingdom, published by Hart. 
Turkey vultures 
Around the World Stampbook (or any postage stamp 
book). 
This collection cost me 25 cents. 
(From it came 
the logo for the “Street Lightnin’ Gang” graffiti artists’ 
union.) Stamps in general give good art-ref; very graphic 
and basic, these odd cameos, vignettes and symbols of the 
world in the mail box. | 
Professional Picture Research. For further information 
about picture research you might try the American 
Society of Picture Professionals, Box 5283, Grand Central 
Station, New York, NY 10017. 
The group includes 
picture researchers, librarians, photographers and their 
agents. They co-publish Picture Sources Three (7975; 
$17 postpaid from: Special Libraries Association, 235 
Park Avenue South, New York, NY 10003). 
Other art reference aids. Apart from all the other para- 
phernalia of the artists’ studio, here are some that are 
useful for reference: 
Sketch books are easi/y available and necessary. 
| use one 
of those anonymous black-bound $4.50 8 x 10s, available 
at any art store. Draw on one side of a page only — the 
pen shows through. 
| use a selection of fibre tip pens: 
Sandford’s Expresso fine, medium and bold are good 
($1 each) — the points can take the jolts at the back of 
the bus without disintegrating. For other graphic 
supplies, see p. 466. 
A hand-held instant camera is often useful. Second-hand 
Ones are cheaply available, or you could borrow one from 
a rich friend who is overloaded with trinkets. 
A new 
Polaroid SX70 costs $198 from Solar Cine Products 
(p. 486), and film $8 for ten shots. 
It’s cheaper by 
Pencil, but you save time. 
2 
Camera Lucida — for enlarging the itty-bitty instant 
se up to wow-sized graphic wonders onto frosted 
glass where they can be traced. $275 from Flax’s (p. 466). 
tonet of binoculars — / use a Sensi 7x50, 372 ft at 
yards which | got in a pawnbroker’s for $30. 
Use them discreetly. 
» 
Beyond Modern Sculpture 
Jack Burnham is one of the most provocative and percep- 
tive writers on art that | know of. He made his critical 
debut with Beyond Modern Sculpture and in my opinion 
it’s still his best book. BMS is nothing less than a total 
reconstruction of the development of twentieth-century 
sculpture in light of the transition from a split mechanist- 
vitalist worldview to an integrated techno-cybernetic 
systems worldview. From this perspective, scattered 
trends and stylistic innovations that, in standard art 
histories, seem merely interesting or idiosyncratic, 
suddenly gel into a meaningful pattern: What Burnham 
is describing is a paradigm-shift as profound as the one 
marked by the emergence of abstract art some 60 - 
70 years ago. 
With the rapid expansion of technology in this century, 
the hand-crafted-object tradition of sculpture finds 
itself overwhelmed and undermined by the complex 
artificial systems that characterize industrial society. 
Looking at the situation with perverse optimism, 
Burnham sees this as redefining the meaning and future 
direction of sculpture, not as rendering it obsolete. 
In 
order to establish precedents for a certain range of new 
options, he reviews the development of some /ong- 
ignored “subsculptural”’ genres: mechanical dolls, pro- 
grammed light displays along the Las Vegas Strip, clocks, 
calculators, music boxes, Grey Walter’s “tortoises,” 
and other modern automata. 
This material is fascinating, 
but is included mainly to set the stage for some heavy 
prognostications: 
Unless the world is substantially altered for the worst, 
the logical outcome of technology's influence on art 
before the end of this century should be a series of art 
forms that manifest true intelligence, but perhaps more 
meaningful, with a capacity for reciprocal relationships 
with human beings... 
. 
Pressing the argument further: 
It is a thesis of this book that formalist and vitalist 
sculpture represent two preparatory steps which 
symbolically anticipate the re-creation of life through 
non-biological means, that is, through technology. 
And, to polish it off, he cites a book by MacGowan and 
Ordway called \ntelligence in the Universe for some 
lengthy quotes about the inevitability of the transition 
from “born-in-the-wild” organic lifeforms to synthetic 
inorganic lifeforms, once it becomes technically possible. 
It’s a full-blown Faustian vision, intoxicating but chilling. 
Caught up in the resolving power of his own version of 
recent art history, and thoroughly awed by the techno- 
logical juggernaut (BMS was written in 1967), Burnham 
goes somewhat overboard on the historical determinism 
angle. Most of his more recent writings have been de- 
voted to counteracting this excess and emphasize the 
semiotic, ritual and mythic content of art. But whether 
or not one agrees with him on the future direction of 
sculpture ofits inevitability, his outline of the principles 
of “systems esthetics” crystalized the paradigm he 
foresaw as immanent, and that is a real accomplishment. 
—Robert Horvitz 
Beyond Modern 
Sculpture 
(The Effects of 
Science and Technology 
on the Sculpture 
of This Century) 
Jack Burnham 
1968, 1975; 402 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
George Braziller, Inc. 
One Park Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The cultural obsession with the art object is slowly disap- 
pearing and being replaced by what might be called 
“systems consciousness."’ 
Actually, this shifts from the 
direct shaping of matter to a concern for organizing 
quantities of energy and information. Seen another way, 
it is a refocusing of aesthetic awareness — based on future 
scientific-technological evolution — on matter-energy-in- 
formation exchanges and away from the invention of 
solid artifacts. These new systems prompt us not to look 
at the “‘skin’’ of objects, but at those meaningful rela- 
tionships within and beyond their visible boundaries. 
COMMUNICATIONS 
| 
ARTISTS’ REFERENCE 465 
LANA gs 
Nate |
Rivaling the frightening pathos of the great Counter- 
Reformation Spanish woodcarvers, the Californian 
Edward Kienholz has produced some of the strongest 
and most memorable tableaus of this generation. The 
moral vantage of Kienholz is keenly evident in The 
State Hospital. 
Here the artist has reincarnated memories 
that reflect his experiences as an attendant in an asylum. 
These are no longer human beings, but fetid bodies and 
faces represented by cloudy, translucent containers. 
Even more eerily pathetic is Birthday (1964), in which 
a young woman lies on a portable operating table in an 
abortionist’s office. Everything vibrates muted whites 
and grays; all surfaces of the tableau are bathed in a sickly 
sheen of clear polyester resin plastic. The mouth of 
the young woman on the table emits a plastic bubble 
containing a floating toy — signifying perhaps the scream 
of lost motherhood; from her stomach seven giant plastic 
arrows protrude; the center arrow carries the soul of the 
dead fetus back to its place of origin. 
— 
nnn 
Leonardo 
Most art books and magazines are about the product of 
art, with lots of four-color pictures to wow you. 
Leonardo js the opposite. 
/t’s pure process, pure tool — 
TECHNIQUE — of the most advanced, most refined, most 
in fact modern of arts. 
(The news stays the same in this 
world; only science and technology change, and art 
chases them.) 
| view this publication with the same 
contemporary fascination as Science or New Scientist 
They announce the present (i.e., future). 
Not cheap, not for browsing. 
Lay out the bucks and 
make the magazine earn it back in your work 
or settle it all at your library. -—SB 
Leonardo 
Frank J. Malina, Editor 
$20 /year (4 issues) 
from: 
Pergamon Press 
Journals Department 
Maxwell House 
Fairview Park 
Elmsford, NY 10523 
e 
Abstract — Roy Adzak 
describes his work after 
1968 dealing with the 
making of negative forms 
of inorganic and organic 
objects. He has produced 
three different series. 
In the first, the ‘“‘Dehydration” Series, he obtained 
imprints of truits and vegetables in cement and he left 
them in the hardened cement molds to display them 
during and following their dehydration. Similarly, fresh 
fish suspended by nylon threads were dehydrated, their 
shrinkage following dehydration being revealed by tabs on 
the threads. The ‘“Textures” series is comprised primarily 
of shallow imprints of natural objects and artifacts in 
plaster to display their structural surface characteristics. 
The series was extended to include photographs of sur- 
faces, such as those on water which cannot be recorded 
by the imprint technique. The ‘“Anthropometric’’ series 
includes imprints in plaster of parts of his body. His 
major effort, however, was to obtain “interior imprints” 
— that is, physiological records of organs, bones, etc. 
inside his body. 
I|lustrations are given from these three 
series and he describes thoughts he has had that induced 
him to pursue work in these directions. 
Oe ee 
ey 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
Lorrie was handing me back my matches but it 
looked like she was handing me the cigarette like 
a joint and I said how if tobacco was illegal and 
scarce it would be shared too. Yeah, a community 
thing, she said and said even though she really 
liked cocaine she didn’t like how she felt about 
it, because it’s so expensive and so good you just 
want to have it all yourself and you have to be 
really good friends with someone before you feel 
like sharing it. 
Did 
pe 
eesti 
a 6 
Saree 
0 
0.0) 
07m 
6 66 
o's 
pe 
0 6 ee 
6 66 Mle 
ie eset 
Aa 
; 
ol ih __ a 
SA 
a 
essai 
Shar Ptraierd 
-4 
