wr. 
¥ 
We 9900 EoT wED nayret 
Weather information on PLATO 
NSA won’t be able to break. People on message systems 
tend to flow through the holes in a rigid hierarchy, 
forming new loyalties to other departments and com- 
panies. Managers who depend on rank for their authority 
tend to lose it on computer networks to those who really 
do the work. Even carefully controlled networks can’t 
entirely avoid this tendency. 
“PLANET has a control feature where the managers can 
inhibit private communication,” Suniga said. “They can 
prevent staff members from sending private messages and 
force them to put everything in the group conference. 
When they do that, though, the length of the conference 
entries increases dramatically. People sneak their private 
messages in between the lines.” 
Networks take employees out of the physical office and 
will probably make commuting unnecessary more than 
once or twice a week. Many people work for groups 
around the country without leaving home — like 
Elaine Kerr, who counsels people worldwide from her 
kitchen table in Worthington, Ohio. 
“Sometimes I do miss the ‘coffee breaks’ that would be a 
part of a normal office working environment,” she said. 
“Because, yes, sometimes working this way IS lonely. 
The tradeoff, however, is well worth it. My work liter- 
ally spills over into the rest of my life. Here | am now, 
for instance, very much at home and very much working; 
with my newspaper on my lap for when the network is 
slow, the dog sleeping on the couch just a few feet away, 
and my son about to come home from school in an hour 
to me rather than a babysitter. Most people, including 
some of my friends, don’t understand. To me, this is a 
far saner way of living than I’ve ever had before.” = 
a aE 
ACCESS TO COMPUTER NETWORKS 
The most technically advanced computer networks are 
closed to the public. For instance the Arpanet (named 
after the Advanced Research Projects Agency) is limited 
to people who work on projects sponsored by the Depart- 
ments of Defense and Energy. 
It’s a free-form linked 
universe of varied computer subnetworks and the arena 
where most of the technology for computer networks 
was first developed. 
(The method for splitting computer 
messages into packets, sending across different routes 
simultaneously and recombining them at the other end 
was originally developed for the Arpanet — to keep 
computer signals safe from nuclear attack. Now it’s the 
most efficient way of keeping any single link in a trans- 
mission system from getting overloaded.) Many of the 
most exciting technical and social breakthroughs happen 
on closed corporate systems, such as those of Citibank 
in New York or Xerox in Palo Alto. 
However, there are a number of networks which you can 
join if you have a terminal or an adapted computer. 
The 
most interesting are these: 
The Source, Telecomputing Corporation of America, 
1616 Anderson Road, McLean, VA 22101. $2.75/hour 
(evenings and weekends) plus $100 entry fee. Informa- 
tion free. The first home terminal consumer information 
and mail network in America, and certainly the most 
ambitiously promoted. People with terminals or personal 
computers can call up versions of the UPI news wire or 
the bibliographic New York Times information bank. 
The Source also offers electronic mail and bulletin boards, 
Programs which analyze statistics off the Wall Street stock 
index, and a clientele (mostly computer hobbyists and 
small businessmen) which is hungry to communicate 
with each other. 
According to many users, some of the Source’s most 
Promised features — such as airline reservation guides 
or on-line discussions of different topics — have been 
slow to materialize or haven‘t lived up to expectations. 
The network is also plagued by slow response time and 
frequent breakdowns. However, the Source deserves 
credit for bringing the idea of a home-based computer 
network with open-ended options out into the open. 
Its managers recently signed a contract with a national 
library network (OCLC of Columbus, Ohio) to link 
terminals in public libraries around the country. 
Micronet, Personal Computing Division, CompuServe, 
5000 Arlington Center Blvd., Columbus, OH 43220. 
$5/hour ($7/hour in some-smaller cities) plus $9 entry 
fee. Information free. This home terminal network 
Piggybacks on the CompuServe Timesharing system; 
during evening hours when their industrial computers 
ap et 
ee 
_—— 
are empty, consumers can use them. Micronet is younger 
than the Source and concentrates on business programs, 
file editing and electronic mail. 
Its fledging newswire is 
pulled from a Columbus newspaper and Associated Press. 
Micronet’s commands are more technically complex than 
those on the Source, but the system operates more 
quickly and is more satisfying once you learn how to use 
it. Their clientele is slightly more technically oriented, 
but that will probably change on both networks. 
Electronic Information Exchange System (EIES), New 
Jersey Institute of Technology Computer Conferencing 
and Communications Center, 323 High Street, Newark, 
NJ 07102. $3.75/hour plus $66/month. Information 
free. EJES is a community of about 900 cross-continental 
members and is hoping to expand now into a series of 
such communities, each on a separate computer linked 
to the others. Most 
E/ES members enter as part of groups 
working toward specific purposes, such as sharing news 
about technology for the handicapped or setting up 
national projects. But members are encouraged by the 
system to communicate with as many others as they have 
time and interest for, and to participate in on-line con- 
ferences. 
E/ES’ mix of participants — from corporations, 
government, nonprofit groups, the arts, and computer- 
dom is unique among computer networks. 
It’s also the 
site of specially designed experimental programs for 
weaving interactive stories, for filtering through masses 
of technical information quickly, and for corresponding 
anonymously or under pen names. 
EIES’ founders, 
Murray Turoff and Roxanne Hiltz, wrote The Network 
Nation (1978; $17.50 postpaid from Addison-Wesley 
Publishing Company, Jacob Way, Reading, MA 01867), 
which is still the only book to give a true feeling of what 
it’s like to be on a computer network. 
CBBS — The simplest networks for personal computers to 
use through the telephone are Community Bulletin Board 
Systems. Most of the Bulletin Boards carry want ads, 
greetings, and general graffiti, although some have 
branched out to concentrate on specific subjects, such 
as genealogy. Anyone with a terminal can dial in and 
read anything there. 
They're financed by contributions 
and out of the owners’ pockets. 
The operators of CBB Systems have an informal network 
to keep track of the new systems and ideas. 
The list of 
phone numbers to reach CBBS‘s constantly changes. 
CBBS lists are available for $1 each from Peripherals 
Unlimited (3450 East Spring Street, Suite 206, Long 
Beach, CA 90806), People’s Computer Company 
(P.O. Box E, Menlo Park, CA 94025) or AMRAD (524 
Springvale Avenue, McLean, VA 22101). The three /ists 
are updated independently and probably overlap but 
aren‘t exactly the same. 
PCNet, PCNet Committee, People’s Computer Company, 
P.O. Box E, Menlo Park, CA 94025. Information free. 
A committee of volunteers, founded by David Caulkins 
of Los Altos, California, has developed an electronic 
mail system for Commodore PET personal computers 
which operates over telephone lines. 
Users start with 
“PCNet PAN” programs which dial the other person’s 
phone number to send and receive messages. A more 
sophisticated program called “PCNet”’ is needed to trans- 
fer files and programs without losing characters. 
Users 
can arrange for their computer to send the mail late at 
night when they’re asleep and the phone rates are lower. 
“Easy-Mover’’ is a similar program for Apple Computers, 
developed by a private software company (\nformation 
Unlimited, 730 Vicente Avenue, Berkeley, CA 94707. 
Information free). Others are also being developed 
— all presumably with different protocols, thus unable 
to send messages to any but the same type of computer 
with the same program running. 
Too bad — like having 
a hundred different types of incompatible telephones. 
The PCNet Committee is making some effort to set 
standards so that doesn’t happen. 
PLATO, Control Data Corporation, HOAO1A, P.O. 
Box 0, Minneapolis, MN 55440. Information free. 
Originally developed for computer-assisted instruction 
systems at the University of I/linois, PLATO produces 
its “lessons” one page at a time in brightly colored 
letters and line drawings that compose themselves as 
if someone were twiddling a full color etch-a-sketch 
behind the screen. PLATO pages are interactive — the 
page asks a question, the user replies, and the answer 
determines what page is shown next. A specially designed 
(and expensive) terminal is required, and these days 
PLATO is only available at “earning centers” in cities 
around the country. While taking a lesson users can send 
messages to other people who are also on-line. Up to five 
conversations can scoot across the bottom of the screen 
at any one time. Control Data, the parent company, 
is noted for its benevolence (PLATO terminals in prisons) 
and its despotism (PLATO centers in rural areas near 
Contro/ Data owned land, where CDC is accused of trying 
to contro/ the farm commodity price markets through 
the network and to sell the information that the farmers 
share to third-world countries). 
COMMUNICATIONS 
COMPUTER NETWORKING 535 
_ 
A music synthesizer linked to a PLATO terminal provides 
drill and practice so class time can be spent on concept 
development. 
Some interesting proposals for computer networks which 
don’t exist yet: 
Datacast, Wireless Digital, 345 Swett Road, Woodside, 
CA 94062. Newsletter $5/year (12 issues). Starting in 
San Francisco sometime in 1980, Datacast will transmit 
| 
words and pictures over Subcarrier Authorization chan- 
nels, which are unused FM frequencies linked to existing 
radio stations. Datacast will be a steady stream of wire 
service news, financial data, real estate listings, classified 
| 
ads, weather and library resources. 
To receive it, users 
will need a modified personal computer with a radio 
receiver ($400 or less above the cost of the computer). 
The computer will pull out only those items which 
it has been programmed to catch. 
Until it gets going, 
| 
| 
Datacast will be covered in its own newsletter, edited 
| 
by Jim Warren, who organizes the West Coast 
Computer Faire (p. 531). 
Project Xanadu, P.O. Box 128, Swarthmore, PA 19081. 
Information $1. Ted Nelson, who published the mile- 
stone book Computer Lib/Dream Machines (p. 536) 
i" 
in 1972, described there his plan for a computer network 
system in which people would edit alternate versions of 
text, jump back and forth between the versions, and make 
royalties based on how many people would call for their 
writing. 
His current plans call for such a system to begin 
running by the end of this year, possibly through locally 
franchised “Information Centers.’’ Xanadu will be used 
for conferencing, writing, editing, and reading. Rather 
than a single index to everything on the system, users 
will be encouraged to create their own indexes to what 
interests them and publish them for others. 
ZL ay 
+ 
While the user of a customary editing or word processing 
system may scroll through an individual document, the 
Xanadu-System user may scroll in time as well as space, 
watching the changes in a given passage as the system 
enacts its successive modifications. —Xanadu Prospectus 
Nelson said they are looking at hourly costs of $2 and $5 
depending on the rate of transmission. 
Xanadu may use 
a transmission system like Telenet or Tymenet; or the 
Xanadu systems may only operate locally. 
The Community Memory Project, 916 Parker Street, 
Berkeley, CA 94710. Information $1. Convinced that 
computer networks should be decentralized, open to 
everyone and service oriented, Community Memory put 
interconnected terminals in Berkeley public places 
between 1973 and 1975. People used the system as an 
electronic bulletin board for news, messages, classified 
ads, and poetry. Others used the terminals to pull out 
information with the appropriate key-words, or to add 
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE 
a te wales (e's 0) 6 Seen dele eos oe 
6.6. 6 16 (6). is) aie (sa 6) os 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
ae 
Stewart’s brother-in-law flew in airplanes regularly 
for several years before he ever landed. He was a 
parachutist in the Army and he was poor, so the 
Army would take him up and he would jump out 
but he never traveled by air off duty. When he 
finally did take a civilian airplane he was really 
worried about landing — ground coming up fast 
in a different way and him in a huge metal 
container that was clearly too heavy and didn’t 
have a parachute. 
Pecarea 
es 
Sade 
te 
o 
8s) 
©) 
Pe. 
Te 
wes, 
8.0) 
0,8) 
et 
© Ors 
