The Futurist 
In a field excessively professional, The Futurist is b/ithely 
amateurish, enthusiastic, open to contradiction, interested. 
It used to be strictly optimistic and technoid, but in 
recent years, editor Cornish has increasingly welcomed 
gloomy views and soft path scenarios. 
The World Future 
Society has cells everywhere, no doubt one near you. I’m 
glad the magazine has survived so well, but Ill admit my 
favorite periodical on the subject is Future Life (p. 548). 
The Futurist 
Edward S. Cornish, Editor 
$18 /year (6 issues) 
from: 
World Future Society 
P.O. Box 30369 
Bethesda Branch 
Washington, DC 20014 
e 
The Co-op movement 
around the U.S. may geta 
helping hand from the 
recently opened National 
Consumer Cooperative 
Bank in Washington, D.C. 
The bank will offer low- 
interest loans to co-ops 
of all kinds, and may 
give an especially valuable boost to the growing number 
of energy co-ops, which help their members save money 
by providing such services as bulk purchasing of heating 
fuel and firewood, non-profit maintenance of boilers 
and furnaces, and installation of storm windows and 
insulation. 
If the bank succeeds in encouraging co-ops 
around the U.S., the federal involvement will eventually 
be phased out and the bank will be wholly owned and 
operated by the co-ops it helped establish. For further 
information, write: National Consumer Cooperative 
Bank, Washington, D.C. 20220. 
e 
Many banks — including some of the biggest — will fail. 
Thousands of depositors may suffer financial losses and 
major inconveniences, despite the Federal Deposit Insur- 
ance Corporation (FDIC) and other agencies and safe- 
guards maintained by the government. 
A number of big U.S. banks are widely reported to be 
already in a highly weakened condition due to bad loans 
carried on their books. A severe downturn would 
inevitably add to this load of bad debt and push some 
banks into bankruptcy. The FDIC and other U.S. govern- 
ment agencies will find it extremely difficult to cope with 
the massive bank failures likely to occur during a major 
depression. The FDIC has only about $10 billion in 
reserves to protect deposits totaling more than one 
trillion dollars. 
—— 
ee 
Early American Life 
Technically accurate American nostalgia for your home, 
crafts, and life. | like the gentle use of color photos on 
non-slick off-white pages. 
—SB 
Early American Life 
Robert G. Miner, Editor 
$12 /year (6 issues) 
from: 
The Early 
American Society 
P.O. Box 1607 
Marion, OH 43302 
Tom found the central 
staircase, which was from 
an old New Hampshire 
house, stored in a hen 
house. The Daniel Munroe 
tall case clock is especially 
fine, mahogany veneer on 
cherry, with a painted 
face and brass finials. The 
fire-buckets belonged to a 
ship captain who took some 
of the first missionaries to 
the Sandwich Islands. 
The Village Voice 
For vicious irresponsibility, | read The Village Voice. 
In the absence of H.L. Mencken and the rarity of Hunter 
Thompson, it has Alexander Cockburn, master of the 
multidirectional insult. 
“The case of New Zealand 
remains deplorable. Cannot this country ever do any- 
thing interesting? If only its army were to install a right- 
wing dictatorship, then at least William Buckley could 
recommend some PR man to explain its case to the 
world.” The Voice also offers the continuing story of 
NYC politics, in gruesome detail, which is far enough 
away from affecting me and being affected by me that 
it’s slightly entertaining as well as being totally depressing. 
—Anne Herbert 
— 
A sensory assault. Sounds: lockers being slammed and 
kicked, voices calling back and forth, showers spattering 
followed closely by a shriek about icy water, a whoosh 
as the steam room door is opened, hair dryers roaring 
into action, pleasure groans from the directions of the 
massage cabinets. Smells: chlorine, urine, Visine. Wafts 
of any perfume ever hawked, which never quite conceal 
the permanent funky odors of the locker room — fresh 
sweat, old sweat, stinky feet, stale armpits, menstruation, 
farts. And sights: dozens of milling, naked women. 
Teenagers, mothers, grandmothers. 
Black, white, Latin, 
Oriental; Jamaican, Italian, Cuban, Jewish, Arabic, Irish. 
But — the first rule of a women’s locker room is Don't 
Stare. (Peek discreetly.) 
New Age Journal 
Best magazine linking human potential movement 
ideas, 
news with political activism, and good, solid grounding 
that evaluates the he/ter-ske/ter, sometimes faddish 
“consciousness movements” with keen balance and 
common sense. 
—Hazel Henderson 
$12 /year (12 issues) 
from: 
New Age 
Subscription Department 
32 Station Street 
Brookline Village, MA 02146 
New Age Journal 
Peggy Taylor, Editor 
e 
Richard Grossinger’s Planet Medicine: From Stone Age 
Shamanism to Post-Industrial Healing (Doubleday, $5.95) 
illuminates numerous contemporary alternative healing 
systems by showing their historical ties to ancient medical 
approaches. Grossinger provides brief yet comprehensive 
historical contexts for each alternative healing system, 
examines its modern relevance (often through personal 
encounters with healers), and lets readers draw their own 
conclusions. Balanced and fair-minded in tone, his 
writing is rich with literary and anthropological associa- 
tions and psychological data from various world cultures. 
Every chapter challenges counter-cultural cliches and 
assumptions while revealing a deep sympathy for — and 
the necessity for — alternative modes of healing. This 
book provides a comprehensive philosophical and 
historical overview of healing throughout the planet. 
Serials Review 
When | 
asserted, once, that CoEvolution and Library 
Journal are the only magazines that review magazines, | 
asserted in ignorance. 
Serials Review has been doing it in 
spades for five years (there is also The Serials Librarian — 
“of interest primarily to libraries, ” says our suggester). 
What a pleasure to see really detailed examination of 
periodicals, how they differ and what they are good for. 
A regular feature, “Serials Digest” by David Walker 
Lupton, is pure informative gossip of what’s changing on 
the magazine scene. 
This is a quarterly that could direct 
you knowledgeably down some unexpected paths. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Stephen Rilke] 
Serials Review 
C. Edward Wall, Editor 
$25 /year (4 issues) 
from: 
Pierian Press 
P.O. Box 1808 
Ann Arbor, MI 48106 
Stands 
Fine Hardwood Music Stands... 
. 
Early Music Stands makes the finest in 
hardwood music stands, upholstered per 
formers benches, instrument stands, and 
much more. For your copy of our new 32 
page mail order catalog of chamber 
music furniture, please send 
$1 (refunded on first order) 
Drawer 855, Box 277, Palo Alto, CA 94302 
The Village Voice 
David Schneiderman, 
Editor 
$26 /year (52 issues) 
from: 
The Village Voice 
Subscription Department 
643 Ryan Way 
Marion, OH 43302 
Magazines for Libraries 
You don’t believe us? You shouldn’t — we're upstarts. 
4 
Check with the old hands at your library — Bill Katz and 
Berry Richards’ working tome of magazine evaluation. 
' 
They cover 6500 periodicals “which the editors and 
i 
contributors believe to be the best of the more than 
65,000 titles now available.” 
—SB 
} 
[Suggested by Michael O. Engel] 
cs 
Magazines for 
Libraries 
Bill Katz and 
Berry G. Richards 
$39.95 postpaid from: 
R.R. Bowker 
Fulfillment Department 
P.O. Box 1807 
Ann Arbor, MI 48106 
Freedom Today. 1975. m.$15. Diane Nobel. Freedom 
Fellowship Church, 30 W. Pasadena, Phoenix, AZ 85013. 
|
Illus., adv. Bk. rev: Notes. Aud: Ga. 
|
A libertarian-alternative culture magazine of some 30 
pages, this is directed to young people and adults who 
“want to learn how to achieve the freedom you need 
to do what you want. And how to combat the fears, 
pressures and obligations that keep you from changing 
the course of your life.’ Unlike many of the genre, its 
short articles are grounded in practical affairs, €.g., 
articles on how to live to 100, civil liberties, reviews of 
investment letters, 14 methods to achieve self-freedom, 
“Making an Abilities Inventory,” etc. Other numbers 
trace the history of the tax revolt and suggest ways of 
living on a boat. Sometimes dangerously close to a 
Dale Carnegie revisionist program, but most of the 
material should be of value to those thrashing around 
seeking identity and how to fit into, or escape, the 
system. Recommended. 
