a 
ey 
Sue 
daa: 
2 
re 
~ COMMUNICATIONS 
OTHING SO FITS A PERSON for a 
life of dedicated useless unhappiness 
as four years of majoring in English. 
—SB 
The Elements of Style 
With a few well cared-for tools and direct unshowy 
motions the craftsperson keeps the work moving steadily 
toward completion. 
The result looks as if it must have 
been easy to do, ‘surprisingly inevitable.’ You can write 
like that. Here are the tools. 
—SB 
The Elements of Style 
William Strunk, Jr. 
and E.B. White 
1935, 1979; 85 pp. 
$1 .95 postpaid from: 
MacMillan Publishing Co. 
Order Department 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
2 
14. Use the active voice. 
The active voice is usually more direct and vigorous than 
the passive: 
! shall always remember my first visit to Boston. 
This is much better than 
My first visit to Boston will always be remembered by me. 
The latter sentence is less direct, less bold, and less concise. 
e 
15. Put statements in positive form. 
Make definite assertions. Avoid tame, colorless, hesitat- 
ing, noncommittal language. Use the word not as a means 
of denial or in antitheses, never as a means of evasion. 
He was not very often 
He usually came late. 
on time. 
He didnot think 
that studying Latin was 
much use. 
e 
16. Use definite, specific, concrete language. 
Prefer the specific to the general, the definite to the 
vague, the concrete to the abstract. 
It rained every day for 
a week, 
He thought the study of 
Latin useless. 
A period of unfavorable 
weather set in. 
He showed satisfaction as 
he took possession of his 
well-earned reward. 
He grinned as he pocketed 
the coin. 
e 
22. Place the emphatic words of a sentence at the end. 
The proper place in the sentence for the word or group of 
words that the writer desires to make most prominent is 
usually the end. 
Humanity has hardly 
advanced in fortitude 
since that time, though it 
has advanced in many 
other ways. 
Humanity, since that time, 
has advanced in many other 
ways, but it has hardly 
advanced in fortitude. 
This steel is principally 
used for making razors, 
because of its hardness. 
Because of its hardness, this 
steel is principally used in 
making razors. 
The breezy style is often the work of an egocentric, the 
person who imagines that everything that pops into his 
head is of general interest and that uninhibited prose 
creates high spirits and carries the day. Open any alumni 
magazine, turn to the class notes, and you are quite 
likely to encounter old Spontaneous Me at work — an 
introductory paragraph that goes something like this: 
Well, chums, here | am again with my bagful of dirt 
about your disorderly classmates, after spending a helluva 
weekend in N ‘Yawk trying to view the Columbia game 
from behind two bumbershoots and a glazed cornea. And 
speaking of news, howzabout tossing a few chirce nuggets 
my way? 
This is an extreme example, but the same wind blows, at 
lesser velocities, across vast expanses of journalistic prose. 
The author in this case has managed in two sentences to 
commit most of the unpardonable sins: he obviously has 
nothing to say, he is showing off and directing the atten- 
tion of the reader to himself, he is using slang with neither 
provocation nor ingenuity, he adopts a patronizing air 
by throwing in the word “‘chirce,’’ he is tasteless, humor- 
less (though full of fun), dull, and empty. He has not 
done his work. Compare his opening remarks with the 
following — a plunge directly into the news: 
Clyde Crawford, who stroked the varsity shell in 1928, is 
swinging an oar again after a lapse of thirty years. Clyde 
resigned last spring as executive sales manager of the 
Indiana Flotex Company and is now a gondolier 
in Venice. 
This, although conventional, is compact, informative, 
unpretentious. The writer has dug up an item of news 
and presented it in a straightforward manner. What the 
first writer tried to accomplish by cutting rhetorical 
capers and by breeziness, the second writer managed to 
achieve by good reporting, by keeping a tight rein on 
his material, and by staying out of the act. 
ES 
Writing Without Teachers 
According to Elbow, writing is sculpted from a rocky 
mass that youve generated freely, rather than wrought 
from an agony of cerebral ozone. 
His advice on how 
ranges from the specific to the sublime. 
Read the book 
literally — you'll write. Then read Writing as a metaphor 
and just enjoy his widsom. 
—Stephanie Mills 
[Suggested by Jim Moore] 
Writing Without 
Teachers 
Peter Elbow 
1973; 196 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid from: 
Oxford University Press 
16-00 Pollitt Drive 
Fair Lawn, NJ 07410 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Another reason for starting writing and keeping writing: 
If you stop too much and worry and correct and edit, 
you'll invest yourself too much in these words on the 
page. You'll care too much about them; you'll make 
some phrases you really love; you won't be able to throw 
them away. But you shou/d throw lots away because by 
the end you'll have a different focus or angle on what you 
are writing, if not a whole new subject. To keep these 
earlier words would ruin your final product. 
It's like 
scaffolding. There is no shortcut by which you can avoid 
building it, even though it can’t be part of your final 
building. 
It’s like the famous recipe for sturgeon: soak it 
in vinegar, nail it to a two-inch plank, put it in a slow oven 
for three days, take it out, throw away the fish, and 
eat the plank. 
e 
The essence of editing is easy come easy go. 
Unless you 
can really say to yourself, ‘‘What the hell. There's plenty 
more where that came from, let's throw it away,” you can’t 
really edit. You have to be a big spender. Not tightass. 
e 
lago’s work is almost done once he gets Othello to the 
point of needing certainty: only one answer is acceptable 
— infidelity. 
Fidelity is incapable of being determined 
with certainty. The need for certainty, then, tends to 
carry in itself a drift toward certain kinds of investigations 
and certain kinds of results. There are some kinds of data 
and propositions and insights a person cannot benefit 
from if he has no tolerance for working with uncertainty. 
e 
Trying to get the beginning just right is a formula for 
failure — and probably a secret tactic to make yourself 
give up writing. 
e 
It is a class of seven to twelve people. 
It meets at least 
once a week. Everyone reads everyone else’s writing. 
Everyone tries to give each writer a sense of how his 
words were experienced. The goal is for the writer to 
come as close as possible to being able to see and exper- 
ience his own words through seven or more people. 
That's all. 
On Writing Well 
The fact that William Zinsser has revised his excellent 
On Writing Well a mere four years after its first publica- 
tion says more about writing well than anything | can 
think of. Writing, to be good, cannot be writ as if in 
stone, not even by a professor of it. It’s got to be honest, 
responsive, and current, mindful, above all, of the reader’s 
impatient intelligence. 
This second edition includes a chapter on writing on the 
Job, advice crucially needed. He counsels the business 
writer to be self-revealing, which is not the same thing 
as self-indulgent. 
Elsewhere in the book, he does his best 
to smite the morbid passive tense, favored voice of the 
faceless corporation. 
Still elsewhere he makes a manful 
attempt to advise on the pronomial and titular changes 
demanded by feminism, predictably scoffs at some of 
them, and fails to grasp that it’s not about equality. 
This 
is one of the few bits of his advice | wouldn’t regard 
as gospel. 
As for the rest, any writer, at any point in his or her 
career, can benefit from Zinsser’s instruction. 
If you are 
serious about communicating with your readers, this book 
belongs on your shelf right next to Strunk and White’s 
Elements of Style and the dictionary of your choice. 
It’s 
that good. 
—Stephanie Mills 
e 
OVERSTATEMENT. “The living room looked as if an 
atomic bomb had gone off there,’’ writes the inexperienced 
writer, describing what he saw on Sunday morning after a 
Saturday night party that got out of hand. Well, we all 
know that he’s exaggerating to make a droll point, but we 
also know that an atomic bomb didn‘t go off there, or 
any other bomb except maybe a water bomb. 
“’I felt as 
if ten 747 jets were flying through my brain,”’ he says, 
machinery. 
written and ask: Have I said it? 
er countai 
Ae e 
com hE spon the subject for the first time? 
If it's 
not, eieary it is because some fuzz has worked its way into the 
eae writer must therefore constantly ask himself: What am 
I trying to say Gnthis sentence? 
Surprisingly often, he 
doesn't seat 
ad fhen he must look at what he has jst 
Is it clear to someone 
The clear writer 
is a person whe—is clear-—headed 
enough to see this stuff for what it is: fuzz. 
( I don't mean to-sugges+ that some people are born 
clear-headed and are therefore natural writers, whereas 
On Writing Well 
(An informal guide to 
writing nonfiction) 
ree 
William Zinsser 
writer must 
1976, 1980; 187 pp. 
oMrother people are naturelly fuzzy and will therefere never write 
a 
well, 
Thinking clearly is ,an-entirely conscious act that the 
= upon himself, 
just as if he were 
te 
; 
Negar 
x. 
2nd Edition 
ee 
on any other kindof project that detis tor logic: 
$6 Postpaid from: 
Harper and Row 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
“and | seriously considered jumping out the window and 
killing myself.’’ These verbal high jinks can get just so 
high — and I’m already well over the limit — before the 
reader feels an overpowering drowsiness. 
It is like being 
trapped with a man who can't stop reciting limericks. 
Don’t overstate. You didn’t really consider jumping out 
the window. 
Life has more than enough truly horrible 
funny situations. 
Let the humor sneak up so that we 
hardly hear it coming. 
i 
; 
people obviously think #+'s-as—easy_as—wetkingr 
adding up 2 laundry list or doing an algebra EE 
ee ee 
ehess~ 
Good writing doesn't juet come naturally, though most 
i> 
dees, 
4 
eons 
The professional 
e 
Two paragraphs of the final manuscript of this chapter. 
Although they look like a first draft, they have already 
been rewritten and retyped — like almost every other 
page — four or five times. With each rewrite | try to make 
what | have written tighter, stronger and more precise, 
eliminating every element that is not doing useful work, 
until at last | have a clean copy for he printer. Then | go 
over it once more, reading it aloud, and am always amazed 
at how much clutter can still be profitably cut. 
