Penguin rookery 
Animal Ecology 
Charles Elton invented the words “niche” and “food 
chain” and “pyramid of numbers.” For 55 years he has 
been the untiring curious naturalist trying to understand 
how each thread of the ecologic fabric weaves and re- 
weaves. Animal Ecology /s his classic. Easy to read. 
Like Darwin in its unabashed straightforward love of 
natural history. 
—Peter Warshal! 
Animal Ecology 
Charles Elton 
1966; 206 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid from: 
Halsted Press 
One Wiley Drive 
Somerset, NJ 08873 
miannancee 
AINA 
POD 
TBE 
R39 
The general existence of this pyramid in numbers hardly 
requires proving, since it is a matter of common observa- 
tion in the field. Actual figures for the relative numbers 
of different stages in a food-chain are very hard to obtain 
in the present state of our knowledge. But three examples 
will help to crystallise the idea of this “pyramid.’’ Birge 
and Juday have calculated that the material which can be 
used as food by the plankton rotifers and crustacea of 
Lake Mendota in North America weighs twelve to 
eighteen times as much as they do. (The fish which eat 
the crustacea would weigh still less.) Again, Mawson 
estimated that one pair of skuas (Mega/estris) on Haswell 
|. in the Antarctic regions, required about fifty to one 
hundred Adelie penguins to keep them supplied with 
food (in the form of eggs and young of the penguins); 
while Percival states that one lion will kill some fifty 
zebras per year, which gives us some idea of the large 
numbers of such a slow-breeding animal as the zebra which 
are required to produce this extra margin of numbers. 
e 
If one examines the photographs of Adelie penguin rook- 
eries given in antarctic books of travel, one can get a vivid 
idea of the numbers of birds involved. Imagine several 
million short gentlemen in dress clothes (tails) standing 
about in a dense crowd covering several square miles of 
otherwise barren country. The birds represent the numbers 
from a very large feeding area concentrated in one place 
for breeding purposes; and to this extent they do not 
give a fair idea of the normal density of the population. 
Predators that angle for their prey with dummy bait. 
The angling turtle Macroclemmys temmincki. 
Mimicry in Plants and Animals 
Mimicry will blow your mind. Beautiful illustrations of 
how two or three creatures have passed so much time 
together that they merge inextricably. 
Flowers mimic 
super-female wasps which the males fuck “mistakenly” 
and so fertilize the flower. One butterfly tastes bad and 
a dozen others evolve disguises so they appear to birds 
as a “bad taster.“ Spiders evolve to appear like ants 
so they can enter colonies for a meal. Hundreds of 
co-evolutionary mind-bogglers. 
—Peter Warshall 
Mimicry in Plants 
and Animals 
Wolfgang Wickler 
| 
ae 
1968; 249 pp. 
|= Weer 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
' mine 
McGraw-Hill Book Co. 
Princeton Road 
Hightstown, NJ 08520 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Butterflies of the genus Thecla draw attention away from 
the true head and direct it to an imitation head at the 
hind end by means of converging colour stripes on the 
wings and antenna-like appendages on the wing tips. 
In 
addition, Thecla togarna on landing swings its hind end 
into the previous direction of flight and subsequently 
flies off in the opposite direction. 
Se 
Why Big Fierce Animals Are Rare 
What does it all mean? Bigger creatures are rarer, smaller 
creatures more common. 
The more creatures living 
together means greater community stability. 
The fewer 
species, the greater the fluctuations. How do humans fit 
in? Colinvaux writes elegantly with a true philosopher's 
burning skepticism and passion for the Nature of Truth. 
No better introduction for those who just can’t stand 
one more word of scientific, latinate, lingo-ese. 
—Peter Warshall 
Why Big Fierce 
Animals Are Rare 
(An Ecologist's 
Perspective) 
Paul Colinvaux 
1978; 256 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Princeton University Press 
Order Department 
Princeton, NJ 08540 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
It thus seems very likely that the larger and fiercer preda- 
tors are not nearly so important in regulating the numbers 
of animals in nature as common sense suggests. They are 
really to be looked upon as scavengers without the 
Patience to wait for their meat to die. They cheat the 
bacteria who would have got the bodies otherwise. Two 
rather pleasing thoughts come from this discovery. One 
is that the lives of big game animals are lived in a large 
measure of freedom from the awful world of tooth and 
claw that we can conjure up by a careless reading of 
Darwin. Not only do these animals live in that peaceful 
coexistence with their neighbors, which the mathematical 
ecologists discovered, but they also may live with less 
fear of being killed than we had supposed, except as a 
“sort of euthanasia. The second pleasing throught is that 
those who like to shoot big game themselves no longer 
have a pretext for killing off the wolves and cats before 
they start on the deer. 
But if the firepower of a big cat is insufficient to devas- 
tate a herd of game, the firepower of the smaller predators 
may be truly awful. A spider or a wasp is a deadly 
efficient engine of destruction. Perhaps most of the 
species of hymenopteran insect that we loosely call 
wasps are in the business of hunting caterpillars and 
grubs of other insects, piercing them and laying their 
eggs under the skin, letting the maggots feed and grow on 
the living flesh of their victims, and eventually flying 
away from the empty carcass as mature wasps themselves. 
Although the victim thus takes long to die, the crucial 
predatory act is the initial attack by the female wasp on 
the caterpillar, and in this encounter the caterpillar 
stands no chance. When a wasp strikes, it is not like a 
tiger striking a buffalo; the issue is never in doubt; the 
chance of the wasp’s being wounded is zero. The same 
must be true when a web-spider closes with a fly struggling 
in its meshes. 
It must also be true when a spider-hunting 
hornet plunges like a dive-bomber, with its armor-plated 
body and its poison-loaded stinger, on a spider sighted in 
the open. It mustalso be true when a tiger-beetle pounces, 
when a praying mantis reaches out with its dreadful arms, 
and when a large carnivorous diving beetle finds a small 
tadpole. 
In all these, the only hopes for the hunted are 
to escape detection or timely flight. We might expect, 
therefore, that small predators can have more potent 
effects on their prey than do large predators. 
SSS 
a 
ee 
Natural history catalog 
Lucas Book Company 
has the most extensive collection of 
records, folios, pamphlets and books on natural history, 
ecology, conservation and “outdoor life” of any store I’ve 
seen. Especially fine collection for flora & fauna west of 
the Rockies. Does mail order anywhere. 
—Peter Warshall 
Lucas Book Company 
2430 Bancroft Way 
Berkeley, CA 94704 
Catalog 
free from: 
Teel 
dtatete 
dual 
e 
le 
es 
6 6s 
© 00 
«© 
616 
6 © 6 
8.08.5 
© 66 
6 0 Bw 
6c 
0 0 60 
6 66 
6 6 8 6d 
e 
68.0 
6.8 
“WHOLE SYSTEMS. 
NATURAL HISTORY 
57 
Animal Forms and Patterns 
No math. No schemata. Just a rambling discussion on 
how the appearance of animals gives clues to the internal 
mysteries. 
The best chapter covers molluscs and their 
shells — living molluscs, not Cartesian clams. 
—Peter Warshall 
Animal Forms 
and Patterns 
(A Study of the 
Appearance of 
of Animals) 
Adolf Portmann 
1967; 257 pp. 
$2.75 postpaid from: 
Schocken Books Inc. 
200 Madison Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Formation of the face: almost expressionless or highly 
expressive, according to low or high level of differentia- 
tion (sea-cat and young lion). 
The way the tail is held, raising the hair on the back or 
flattening it, the position of the ears, as well as the whole 
posture of the body, play a large part in the social life of 
wolves, and are understood by their companions to be a 
manifestation of internal conditions. 
The wolf to the left 
ranks high in the social structure of the group, the other 
ranks below it. (The illlustration does not, however, 
represent a ‘scene’, but merely two postures.) 
At the 
same time the special form production at the anal pole 
is made clear. 
i 
ed 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
“My grandfather, who is 81, didn’t have a tele- 
phone until 4 years ago. Since he and grandma 
live alone in a farmhouse several miles from the 
nearest neighbor, his grownup children worried 
about him a lot and argued a lot to get him to get 
a phone. He wouldn’t because in 1932 when 
Morris Edwards brought telephones to town my 
grandfather was pissed at Morris Edwards about a 
church fight they were having. Edwards was only 
in the phone company for five years and it’s 
changed hands a lot since then to being AT&T but 
grandfather wouldn’t get a phone until he’d been 
in the hospital a couple of times and Uncle Luke 
came with the phone man and told him he was 
getting a phone like it or not. About the same 
time Grandpa got a phone he got an indoor bath- 
room, but when my mother and I were there to 
visit we noticed he never ever used it. Grandma 
did but he still used the place out back. The year 
before the bathroom he had gotten rid of the milk 
cow he milked for their own use and also gota 
propane heater to replace the coal stoye. Milk 
prices went nuts that winter and the energy crisis 
happened and propane orders were based on last 
year’s order and he didn’t have a last year’s order.” 
a2 
es 
’ 
acta 
