e 
The poet Yang Wan Li wrote: 
Standing by the stream waiting for the moon to rise; 
But knowing how impatient | am, the moon takes its time. 
Tired of waiting, | return to my study and close the door. 
The moon leaps over a thousand peaks. 
—Wind Bell, Winter ‘78-'79 
Publication: Kahawai, a jcurnal of women and Zen, 
published quarterly at Diamond Sangha. Contribution. 
Book: A Zen Wave, Basho’s Haiku and Zen, by Robert 
Aitken (1979; $7.95 postpaid). 
Seattle Zen Center, 1517 34th, Seattle, WA 98122. 
A Rinzai center under the direction of Takabayashi 
Genki Roshi. 
Sino-American Buddhist Association, Gold Mountain 
Monastery, 1731 15th Street, San Francisco, CA 94103. 
City of Ten Thousand Buddhas, Box 217, Talmage, 
CA 95481. Under the direction of the Venerable Master 
Hsuan Hua. 
Very intensive Ch’an (Chinese Zen) retreats; 
also Pure Land chanting of Amitabha’s name. 
Classes in 
Chinese, Sanskrit. Some students have taken the full 
ordination of orthodox monks and nuns. 
Gold Wheel! 
Temple is a branch in Los Angeles. 
Publication: Vajra Bodhi Sea, $22/year (12 issues). 
Book: Pure Land and Ch’an Dharma Talks, Sino- 
American Buddhist Association (1974, $4 postpaid). 
Providence Zen Center, RFD No. 5, Cumberland, R1 
02864. Headquarters of a nationwide network of 
centers under the direction of Seung Sahn Soen Sa 
Nim, a Korean master of the Chogye School. Each center 
has a daily schedule of morning and evening chanting 
and sitting Zen, a weekly /ecture, and an intensive train- 
ing period called Yong Maeng Jong Jin, “to leap like a 
tiger while sitting.” 
Publication: Newsletter. 
Book: Dropping Ashes on the Buddha, by Seung Sahn 
Soen Sa Nim (1976; $4.95 postpaid). 
International Buddhist Meditation Center, 928 South 
New Hampshire Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90006. An 
interdenominational center under the direction of the 
Venerable Thich Thien-An, a Vietnamese Buddhist 
priest and Zen master. 
Publication: 
Lotus in the West. 
Book: Buddhism and Zen in Vietnam, by Dr. Thich 
Tien-An (1975; $12.50). 
VAJRAYANA 
Vajradhatu, 1345 Spruce Street, Boulder, CO 80302. 
A nationwide association of rural contemplative centers 
and urban centers, called Dharmadhatus, under the direc- 
tion of the Venerable Chogyam Trungpa, Rinpoche, a 
master in the Kagyu and Nyingma lineages of Tibetan 
Buddhism, Dharmadhatus offer free meditation instruc- 
tion, all day sittings, and study programs. 
Publication: Vajradhatu Sun. 
Book: Cutting Through Spiritual Materialism by 
Chogyam Trungpa, Rinpoche (see below). 
Karma Triyana Dharmachakra, Mountaintop Retreat 
Center, Mead Mountain Road, Woodstock, NY 12498. 
Cutting Through Spiritual Materialism 
Gurus and religions are a dime a dozen. They super- 
market comfort as a new bunch of rules and perceptions. 
In fact, the religions and gurus, once memorized, become 
huge burdens. Many of us try to avoid what's happening 
— internally, externally, wherever — by using Religion 
and Gurus as a comfortable crutch. 
This crutch is 
“spiritual materialism” and Trungpa will kick it out from 
your armpit. 
Thank goodness. 
Here’s a spiritual com- 
panion — neither lofty nor pretentious — just startling, 
disarming and incessantly 
clear. 
Trungpa (I’ve never met him) appears to be the most 
Whole Mind for the Whole Earth. From Tibet, a diamond 
clarity. From England, the tongue-in-cheek humor of 
Alice-in-Wonderland logicians. From France, existen- 
tialist sports car precision. From the USA, a peculiar 
impatience with Holden Caulfield, double-bind mind. 
So loosen up, have a drink, and meet the fusion of 
Whole Earth philosophical gentleness. 
(See Naropa 
Institute, p. 588.) 
—Peter Warshall 
Cutting Through 
Spiritual Materialism 
Chogyam Trungpa 
1973; 250 pp. 
$6.50 postpaid from: 
Shambhala Publications 
P.O. Box 271 
Boulder, CO 80306 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Publication: Vajradhatu Sun. 
Book: Cutting Through Spiritual Materialism by 
Chogyam Trungpa (see below). 
Karma Triyana Dharmachakra, Mountaintop Retreat 
Center, Mead Mountain Road, Woodstock, NY 12498. 
The North American seat of His Holiness the Gyalwa 
Karmapa, Head of the Kagyu lineage. 
The main purpose 
of the Retreat is to establish a traditional Tibetan monas- 
tery in America. 
There are twelve affiliated centers, all 
called Karma Thegsum Choling. 
Kagyu Droden Kunchab, 3746 21st Street, San 
Francisco, CA 94110. A center for the teaching and 
practice of Tibetan Buddhism, under the direction of 
Kalu Rinpoche, a meditation master in the Kagyu school. 
Kagu Khunkhyab Chuling, a major center, is located at 
725 West 14th Avenue, Vancouver, B.C. 
There area 
number of affiliates nationwide. 
Book: Writings of Kalu Rinpoche, translated by 
Kenneth McLeod (1976; 
$5 postpaid). 
Tibetan Nyingma Meditation Center, 2425 Hillside 
Avenue, Berkeley, CA 94704. A center for the practice 
and study of the Nyingmapa lineage of Tibetan Bud- 
dhism, under the direction of Tarthang Tulku, Rinpoche. 
Classes in Tibetan language and culture. A rural 
community, Odiyan, is under construction. 
Publications: 
Crystal Mirror (annual), Gesar (quarterly). 
Book: Openness Mind by Tarthang Tulku (1978; 
$5.95 postpaid). 
Yeshe Nying Po, Orgyen Cho Dzong, 19 West 16th 
Street, New York, NY 10011. The seat of His Holiness 
Dudjom Rinpoche, Head of the Nyingmapa lineage. 
Under the direction of Thinley Norbu, Rinpoche. 
Orgyen 
Cho Dhing, under the direction of Gyatru/ Rinpoche is 
located in Berkeley, California. 
Maha Siddha Nyingmapa Center, Box 257, Conway, 
MA 03121. Under the direction of Dodrup 
Chen, Rinpoche. 
Sakya Tegchen Choling Center, 4416 Burke Avenue 
North, Seattle, WA 98103. A center for the practice and 
study of the Sakya lineage of Tibetan Buddhism. 
Under 
the direction of Sakya Jigdal Dagchen. 
Ewam Choden Tibetan Buddhist Center, 254 Cambridge 
Street, Kensington, CA 94708. Under the direction of 
Kunga Thartse, Rinpoche of the Sakya school. 
Publication: 
Virupa. 
Jetsun Sakya Center, 400 Riverside Drive, New York, 
NY 10025. Under the direction of Deshung Rinpoche. 
Drayang Ling Buddhist Studies Center, 1382 Frank 
Street, Honolulu, HI 96816. Under the direction of 
Nechung Rinpoche, a lama ordained in both Nyingma 
and Gelug lineages. 
Lamaist Buddhist Monastery of America, 140 East 
Third Street, Howell, NJ 07731. Under the direction of 
Geshe Wangyal, of the Gelug school. 
There are also three 
other Geshes teaching at the Monastery. 
There isa 
Retreat House for more intensive study, as well as a 
translation center. 
® 
e 
We could say that compassion is the ultimate attitude 
of wealth: an anti-poverty attitude, a war on want. 
It 
contains all sorts of heroic, juicy, positive, visionary, 
expansive qualities. And it implies larger scale thinking, a 
freer and more expansive way of relating to yourself and 
the world. This is precisely why the second yana is called 
the ‘‘Mahayana,” the ‘‘Great Vehicle.’’ 
It is the attitude 
that one has been born fundamentally rich rather than 
that one must become rich. Without this kind of confi- 
dence meditation cannot be transferred into action at all. 
Compassion automatically invites you to relate with 
people, because you no longer regard people as a drain 
on your energy. They recharge your energy, because 
in the process of relating with them you acknowledge 
your wealth, your richness. 
e 
Somehow you have to be right in no-man’s land in order 
to see things as they are. Seeing things requires a leap, 
and one can only take this so-called leap without leaping 
from anywhere. 
If you-see from somewhere, you will 
be conscious of the distance and conscious of the seer 
as well. So you can only see things as they are in the 
midst of nowhere. 
Like one cannot taste one’s own 
tongue. Think about it. 
e 
Again it is said in the teachings: 
‘‘Better not to begin. 
Once you begin, better to finish it.” So you had better 
not step onto the spiritual path unless you must. Once 
you have stepped foot on the path, you have really done 
it, you cannot step back. There is no way of escaping. 
LEARNING 
BUDDHISM 
Zen Mind, Beginner’s Mind 
Suzuki Roshi said he preferred to work with American 
students because they are such total earnest beginners, 
and that is an advantage in the Zen business. 
He was a 
remarkable person. 
During World War I/ in Japan he was 
a pacifist — unheard of. When the Americans came in 
the people in his town wanted to quickly tear down a 
war memorial statue they had; Roshi said don’t do it, 
the Americans won‘t mind (they probably didn’t even 
notice). Americans did notice during construction of 
the Tassajara Zen Center when the students found that 
their tiny Roshi could move as powerfully and gracefully 
with huge boulders as he could with obstacles to under- 
standing. 
This book is a nicely edited transcription of 
words Suzuki Roshi spoke to a beginning Zen group in 
a Los Altos garage. 
It has become the classic beginning 
book for people interested in Zen. 
—SB 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
John Weatherhill, Inc. 
Charles E. Tuttle Co. 
Rutland, VT 05701 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Zen Mind, 
Beginner’s Mind 
(Informal Talks on 
Zen Meditation 
and Practice) 
Shunryu Suzuki Roshi 
1970; 134 pp. 
e 
But perfect freedom is not found without some rules. 
People, especially young people, think that freedom is to 
do just what they want, that in Zen there is no need for 
rules. But it is absolutely necessary for us to have some 
rules. But this does not mean always to be under control. 
As long as you have rules, you have a chance for freedom. 
To try to obtain freedom without being aware of the 
rules means nothing. 
It is to acquire this perfect freedom 
that we practice zazen. 
Zen mind is one of those enigmatic phrases used by Zen 
teachers to make you notice yourself, to go beyond the 
words and wonder what your own mind and being are. 
This is the purpose of all Zen teaching — to make you 
wonder and to answer that wondering with the deepest 
expression of your own nature. The calligraphy on the 
front of the binding reads nyora/ in Japanese or tathagata 
in Sanskrit. This is a name for Buddha which means “‘he 
who has followed the path, who has returned from such- 
ness, or is suchness, thusness, is-ness, emptiness, the fully 
completed one.” 
It is the ground principle which makes 
the appearance of a Buddha possible. 
It is Zen mind. 
At the time Suzuki-roshi wrote this calligraphy — using 
for a brush the frayed end of one of the large swordlike 
leaves of the yucca plants that grow in the mountains 
around Zen Mountain Center — he said: ‘‘This means 
that Tathagata is the body of the whole earth.” 
—Richard Baker, introduction 
| discovered that it is necessary, absolutely necessary, 
to believe in nothing. That is, we have to believe in some- 
thing which has no form and no color — something which 
exists before all forms and colors appear. This is a very 
important point. No matter what god or doctrine you 
believe in, if you become attached to it, your belief will 
be based more or less on a self-centered idea. You strive 
for a perfect faith in order to save yourself. But it will 
take time to attain such a perfect faith. You will be 
involved in an idealistic practice. 
In constantly seeking 
to actualize your ideal, you will have no time for compo- 
sure. But if you are always prepared for accepting every- 
thing we see as something appearing from nothing, 
knowing that there is some reason why a phenomenal 
existence of such and such form and color appears, then 
at that moment you will have perfect composure. 
Se81e Bie 6 
© hie © a! 6 S06) ¢ o.6 00 
© 6.0 6)6\ 0,0 67e © 
© 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
continued from last spread 
Things about tidelands: 
So — when the Sausalito houseboaters were trying 
to stop the developers by doing things like block- 
ing bulldozers and getting arrested and challenging 
the arrests as illegal, Piro thought they should skip 
that and challenge the idea of someone owning 
the tidelands where the houseboats are as illegal. 
Say the developer didn’t have the right to bring 
in bulldozers because the developer didn’t have a 
right to lease the land from the guy who owns it 
because the guy who owns it doesn’t really own it 
because nobody can own tidelands, because of 
common law never rescinded. Might not have 
worked but could have been a big enough legal 
battle to wear the developers down. But Piro got 
sick and went to New Zealand to visit friends and 
recover and when he got back some houseboaters 
had settled with the developers which was, from 
Piro’s point of view, selling out, and the question 
of who owns the tide and its mud never went 
to court. 
eee 
eee 
eee 
eee 
eee 
eee 
mee 
eee 
eee 
eee 
eee 
erereeeesreee 
eee 
eee 
