~ 
* 
f 
mY 
Muddling Toward Frugality 
Mr. Johnson’s thesis can be summarized without much 
difficulty: after generations of extravagant and reckless 
industrial expansion, we are clearly entering an age of 
economic scarcity. While human demands continue to 
rise, natural resources, especially the non-renewable kind, 
become harder to find and more expensive to extract, 
process, transport and distribute. 
This simple brute fact 
is the basic cause of inflation, despite the inability of 
most professional economists to see it. (The “dismal 
science” 
has never been more dismally obtuse than it is 
today.) The law of diminishing returns is coming into 
effect. 
Technological developments can delay the process 
but not halt or reverse it; nor can we rely on government 
or big business to save us. Planning for further growth 
delays the adjustments that must be made, makes a fair 
sharing of necessary sacrifices more troublesome, and if 
carried too far will make more severe and painful, because 
rapid, the inevitable decline of the international economic 
machine. 
The best way to deal with the end of affluence 
is to accept it — not fight it and to begin, here and now, the 
unavoidable adaptations, on an individual, family, and 
community basis. Piecemeal, experimental, and muddling. 
This of course is the conservative approach to the future, 
conservative in the true, honest, root meaning of the 
word, and will be dismissed with impatience by those who 
still yearn for dramatic break throughs, global industrial- 
ism, a planetary state under the domination of Capitalism 
or Communism or some convergent combination of the 
two. We need heroes, the critics will cry, bold and giant 
figures — tragic heroes! — who will lead us on to ever 
grander adventures, up to the pyramids of power and 
beyond — ad astra. 
To the stars. 
Anticipating this objection, Mr. Johnson offers us the 
comic hero. 
The tragic hero is always willing to risk 
everything (including our well-being) for his vision of the 
ideal. Modern history gives us numerous examples of the 
type. The comic hero, however, is more concerned with 
survival. Survival in comfort. Good food, adequate 
shelter, a decent wine, the love of wife and friends and 
neighbors, a satisfying job, a supportive community to 
live in, these comprise for the comic hero the essentials 
of a good life. 
The comic hero is a muddler. 
He makes a science of 
muddling, that is, of feeling his way step by step through 
problems that allow no bypassing and cut off retreat. 
He 
is satisfied with small gains and willing to make small 
sacrifices. 
He distrusts abstractions, grand generalizations, 
all-embracing ideologies. When possible he dodges war, 
whether a war against another nation, another people, or 
against nature. He is ready to adapt and change when 
necessary rather than cling with loyal desperation to any 
cause, however traditional, that is clearly getting him into 
more and more trouble. He is ready, among other things, 
to give up his gas-hog pickup for a bicycle, his cross- 
country vacation tour for a walk in the hills, his color TV 
for a ballgame in the park, when the advantages of so doing 
become apparent. And he has enough foresight to surren- 
der ajob ina doomed industry — automobiles, for example 
— when a chance appears to make a living elsewhere. 
Most good ideas are as old as humankind. 
The value of 
Mr. Johnson‘s book lies in his synthesis of several old 
ideas — voluntary simplicity, for example, and friendship, 
and community citizenship — in a sensible program for an 
entire nation. He does not propose to save the world. 
The rest of the world, as he makes clear, must save itse/f, 
and in this endeavor, as he points out, the so-called under- 
developed lands have in some respects a head start against 
the over-developed lands such as the United States. 
The 
majority of the people of Mexico, for instance, are well 
accustomed to poverty, if they can find a way to bring 
their population into balance with their land and its 
resources, and learn to share those resources in an 
equitable manner (through another revolution, if neces- 
sary), they will be better off than we North Americans, 
for whom frugality and commonwealth remain exotic, 
dangerous heresies. 
Mr. Johnson shows in what | find a persuasive argument 
that if we have enough time, and if we begin to change 
our ways now, voluntarily, with patience, good humor 
and good will, we can not only avoid calamity but even 
regain a saner, easier, more rewarding way of life. 
—Edward Abbey 
Muddling Toward 
ae 
Frugality 
Warren Johnson 
1978; 252 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid from: 
Shambhala Publications 
1123 Spruce Street 
Boulder, CO 80302 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
. 
The process of muddling through is a gutsy, down-to-earth 
process full of inefficiencies and inconsistencies. 
It takes an 
inordinate amount of time to take modest incremental steps 
forward, and significant bold steps are clearly not in the cards. 
The process can be a lot of fun for those who enjoy it and 
do not take themselves too seriously — the politician who 
loves to talk to people, the lobbyist who thrives on finding 
ways to gain access to the influential, or the activist who 
enjoys organizing people. 
It keeps this country pretty close 
to the middle of the road, while still permitting slow, falter- 
ing adjustments to change. 
All the jibes about our political 
process seem pretty appropriate. Ralph Waldo Emerson said 
democracy was “a raft which would never sink, but then 
your feet are always in the water.’’ 
E.B. White defined it as 
“the recurrent suspicion that more than half the people are 
right more than half the time.” 
| rather like Plato’s defini- 
tion of democracy as ‘a charming form of government, full 
of variety and disorder, and dispensing a sort of equality to 
equals and unequals alike.” 
eee 
eee 
oo 
Steady-State Economics 
Where Toward a Steady-State Economy diagnoses the 
future selling ailment and inspires treatment, this subse- 
quent and closely argued book by Daly prescribes 
specific medicine. 
The subject is balance. 
—SB 
Steady-State 
Economics 
(The Economics of 
Biophysical Equi- 
librium and 
Moral Growth) 
Herman E. Daly 
1977; 185 pp. 
$6.50 postpaid from: 
W.H. Freeman and Co. 
660 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The Entropy Law and 
the Economic Process 
Professor Georgescu, who has been a long time critic of 
mechanistic model builders within his discipline, demon- 
strates that the economic process is not circular and 
reversible as it is depicted in nearly every introductory 
economics textbook. 
It is linear and cannot be reversed. 
With impeccable logic and irrepressible wit Professor 
Georgescu lays bare the one-way nature of economic 
production; a process that starts with inputs of material 
“low entropy” upgraded by inputs of energy to produce 
an output which is degraded through use into waste 
after having provided the satisfaction for which it was 
made. Expanding economies process ever larger quanti- 
ties of material and use greater amounts of energy thus 
depleting ever more quickly the remaining “low entropy” 
reserves of materials and energy while increasing the 
overall entropic flow in the environment. 
This lack of 
understanding the relationship between expanded " 
economic activity and increased entropy has completely 
discounted any viewpoint not tightly focused on the 
short term. 
The consequence is that future generations, 
possibly not this one, will inherit a world whose dowry 
will have been squandered by men ignorant of the 
relationship between economics and entropy. 
—Timothy Wessels 
e 
The common fact that heat always flows by itself from 
the hotter to the colder body, never in reverse, came to 
be generalized by the Entropy Law, which is the Second 
Law of Thermodynamics and which is in contradiction 
with the principles of Classical mechanics. 
Its complete 
enunciation is incredibly simple. All it says is that the 
entropy of the universe (or of an isolated structure) 
increases constantly and, | should like to add, irrevo- 
cably. We may say instead that in the universe there Is 
Once we have replaced the basic premise of ‘‘more is 
better’’ with the much sounder axiom that ‘‘enough is 
best,’’ the social and technical problems of moving to a 
steady state become solvable, perhaps even trivial. But 
unless the underlying growth paradigm and its supporting 
values are altered, all the technical prowess and manipu- 
lative cleverness in the world will not solve our problems 
and, in fact, will make them worse. 
e 
The critical institution is likely to be the minimum and 
maximum limits on income and the maximum limit on 
wealth. Without some such limits, private property and 
the whole market economy lose their moral basis, and 
there would be no strong case for extending the market 
to cover birth quotas and depletion quotas as a means of 
institutionalizing environmental limits. Exchange rela- 
tions are mutually beneficial among relative equals. 
Exchange between the powerful and the powerless is 
often only nominally voluntary and can easily be a mask 
for exploitation, especially in the labor market, as Marx 
has shown. 
The Entropy Law and 
i 
the Economic Process 
re 
ata 
Nicholas Georgescu- 
eet 
Roegen 
7 
1971; 457 pp. 
: 
s | 
$6.95 postpaid from: 
: bs 
' 
Harvard University Press 
s a 
79 Garden Street 
r gb 
Cambridge, MA 02138 
. 
1, 
or Whole Earth 
+ & 
Household Store 
= s 5 
ze 
Fee 
a continuous and irrevocable qualitative degradation 
of free into bound energy... 
. 
There are some good reasons why | stress . 
. . the irrevo- 
cability of the entropic process. One reason interests 
the economist in particular. 
If the entropic process were 
not irrevocable, i.e., if the energy of a piece of coal or 
of uranium could be used over and over again ad infi- 
nitum, scarcity would hardly exist in man’s life. Up to 
a certain level, even an increase in population would not 
create scarcity: mankind would simply have to use the 
existing stocks more frequently. Another reason is of 
more general interest. 
It concerns one of man’s weak- 
nesses, namely, our reluctance to recognize our limita- 
tions in relation to space, to time, and to matter and 
energy. 
It is because of this weakness that, even though 
no one would go so far as to maintain that it is possible 
to heat the boiler with some ashes, the idea that we may 
defeat the Entropy Law by bootlegging low entropy 
with the aid of some ingenious device has its periodical 
fits of fashion. Alternatively, man is prone to believe 
that there must exist some form of energy with a self- 
perpetuating power. 
Economics, Ecology, Ethics 
The Western Manifest Destiny of eternal growth is noisily 
convulsing its last. Meanwhile who is looking around for 
what's being born? Credit Daly with a sharp eye. 
In one 
comfortable book he has gathered the best essays, papers, 
analyses, speculations on the holy transition from self- 
exploitation to simple maintenance. 
Georgescu-Roegen, 
Ehrlich, Schumacher, Boulding, Hardin, Johnson, Ophuls, 
and C.S. Lewis. For a healthy world to be accomplished 
it must first be perceived. Start here. 
—SB 
Economics, 
Ecology, Ethics 
(Essays toward a 
steady-state economy) 
Herman E. Daly, Editor 
1973, 1980; 372 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
W.H. Freeman and Co. 
660 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Behavior that is “rational’’ (consistent with profit maxi- 
mization) over one time period is irrational over another. 
My favorite example is that of the village idiot who, when 
offered the choice between a nickel and a dime, always 
chose the nickel, much to the villagers’ continuing amuse- 
ment. 
Finally one day a villager said to him, “Look, | 
know you are not that stupid; you know a dime is worth 
more than a nickel — why do you always take the nickel?” 
To which the “idiot” replied “It’s obvious — if | took the 
dime they would stop making the offer!’ Idiocy on one 
time horizon is cleverness on another. But somehow we 
manage to choose an accounting period and muddle 
through, and so we could also ina steady state. 
° 
Like the aging of an organism, the working of the 
Entropy Law through the economic process is relatively 
slow but it never ceases. So, its effect makes itself visible 
only by accumulation over long periods. Thousands of 
years of sheep grazing elapsed before the exhaustion of 
the soil in the steppes of Eurasia led to the Great Migra- 
tion. The Entropy Law enables us to perceive that a 
development of the same nature and of far greater conse- 
quences is running its full course now. Because of the 
pressure of population on agricultural land the area of 
which cannot be appreciably increased, man can no 
longer share the agricultural low entropy with his tradi- 
tional companions of work, the beasts of burden. This 
fact is the most important reason why mechanization of 
agriculture must spread into one corner of the world 
after another, at least for a long time to come. 
ait 
a oo 
