~ WHOLE SYSTEMS ~ 
28 BATESON 
Steps to an Ecology of Mind 
Bateson has informed everything I’ve attempted since | 
read Steps in 1972. Through him | became convinced 
that much more of whole systems could be understood 
than | thought, and that much more existed wholesomely 
beyond understanding than | thought — that mysticism, 
mood, ignorance, and paradox could be rigorous, for 
instance, and that the most potent tool for grasping these 
essences — these influence nets — is cybernetics. 
Bateson is responsible for a number of formal discoveries, 
most notably the “Double Bind” theory of schizophrenia. 
As an anthropologist he did pioneer work in New Guinea 
and (with Margaret Mead) in Bali. He participated in the 
Macy Foundation meetings that founded the science of 
cybernetics but kept a healthy distance from computers. 
He has wandered thornily in and out of various disciplines 
— biology, ethnology, linguistics, epistemology, psycho- 
therapy — and left each of them altered with his passage. 
This book chronicles the journey. 
It is a collection of 
all his major papers, 1935-1971. 
In recommending the 
book I’ve learned to suggest that it be read backwards. 
Read the recent broad analyses of mind and ecology at 
the end of the book and then work back to see where the 
premises come from. 
In my view Bateson’s special contribution to cybernetics 
is in exploring its second, more difficult realm (where the 
first is feedback, a process influencing itself, what Bateson 
calls “circuit”; and the second is the meta-realm of hier- 
archic levels, the domain of context, of paradox and 
abundant pathology, and of learning.) 
Strong medicine. 
Steps to an Ecology 
of Mind 
Gregory Bateson 
1972; 517 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid from: 
Ballantine Books, Inc. 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 24507 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Mind and Nature: A Necessary Unity 
The matter of the book is the hidden, though unoccult, 
dynamics of life — the misapprehension of which threatens 
to unhorse our civilization. 
There’s lotsa books that 
attempt that; none | know of that succeed so compre- 
hensively. Bateson doesn’t have all the answers, he just 
has better questions — elegant, mature, embarrassing 
questions that tweak the quick of things. 
One of the themes that emerges is the near identity between 
the process of evolving and the process of learning, and 
the on-going responsibility they have for each other which 
includes our responsibility, which we have shirked. We 
shirked it through ignorance. Mind and Nature 
dispells that. 
All of Bateson’s previous writing — Steps to an Ecology 
of Mind, Naven, Communications: The Social Matrix of 
Psychiatry, Balinese Character — has been addressed to 
various audiences of specialists. Though this book has 
compelling news for his loyal audiences, it is addressed 
to a general readership. 
It is new thought in an old virtue 
— the use of fine original writing to express ideas whose 
excellence is embedded in the clarity of their expression. 
—SB 
Mind and Nature: A 
Necessary Unity 
Gregory Bateson 
1979; 277 pp. 
$3.50 postpaid from: 
Bantam Books, Inc. 
414 E. Golf Road 
Des Plaines, |L 60016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Human sense organs can receive on/y news of difference, 
and the differences must be coded into events in time 
(i.e., into changes) in order to be perceptible. Ordinary 
static differences that remain constant for more than a 
few seconds become perceptible only by scanning. 
e 
This analogy between the social system and the natural 
world is the religion that anthropologists call totemism. 
As an analogy, it is both more appropriate and more 
healthy than the analogy, familiar to us, which would 
liken people and society to nineteenth-century machines. 
No organism can afford to be conscious of matters with 
which it could deal at unconscious levels. 
e 
Mere purposive rationality unaided by such phenomena as 
art, religion, dream, and the like, is necessarily pathogenic 
and destructive of life; its virulence springs specifically 
from the circumstance that life depends upon interlocking 
circuits of contingency, while consciousness can only see 
such short arcs as human purpose may direct. 
The social scene is nowadays characterized by the exist- 
ence of a large number of self-maximizing entities which, 
in law, have something like the status of ‘persons’ — 
trusts, companies, political parties, unions, commercial 
and financial agencies, nations, and the like. In biological 
fact, these entities are precisely not persons and are not 
even aggregates of whole persons. They are aggregates 
of parts of persons. 
They say that power corrupts; but this, | suspect, is 
nonsense. What is true is that the idea of power corrupts. 
e 
My father, the geneticist William Bateson, used to read 
us passages of the Bible at breakfast — lest we grow up 
to be empty-headed athiests. 
In no system which shows mental characteristics can any 
part have unilateral control over the whole. In other 
words, the mental characteristics of the system are 
immanent, not in some part, but in the system as a whole. 
e 
The Theology of Alcoholics Anonymous 
Some outstanding points of the theology of AA are: 
(1) There is a Power greater than the self. Cybernetics 
would go somewhat further and recognize that the “self 
as ordinarily understood is only a small part of a much 
larger trial-and-error system which does the thinking, 
acting, and deciding. This system includes all the infor- 
mational pathways which are relevant at any given 
moment to any given decision. The “self” is a false reifi- 
cation of an improperly delimited part of this much 
larger field of interlocking processes. 
1. A mind is an aggregate of interacting parts 
or components. 
2. The interaction between parts of mind is triggered 
by difference, and difference is a nonsubstantial phenom- 
enon not located in space or time; difference is related to 
negentropy and entropy rather than to energy. 
3. Mental process requires collateral energy. 
4. Mental process requires circular (or more complex) 
chains of determination. 
5. In mental process, the effects of difference are to be 
regarded as transforms (i.e., coded versions) of events 
which preceded them. The rules of such transformation 
must be comparatively stable (i.e., more stable than their 
content) but are themselves subject to transformation. 
6. The description and classification of these processes 
of transformation discloses a hierarchy of logical types 
immanent in the phenomena. 
| shall argue that the phenomena which we call thought, 
evolution, ecology, life, learning, and the like occur only 
in systems that satisfy these criteria. 
e 
It is a nontrivial matter that we are almost always una- 
ware of trends in our changes of state. There is a quasi- 
scientific fable that if you can get a frog to sit quietly in 
a saucepan of cold water, and if you then raise the 
temperature of the water very slowly and smoothly so 
that there is no moment marked to be the moment at 
which the frog should jump, he will never jump. He will 
get boiled. 
Is the human species changing its own envi- 
ronment with slowly increasing pollution and rotting 
its mind with slowly deteriorating religion and educa- 
tion in such a saucepan? 
° 
We face, then, two great stochastic systems that are partly 
in interaction and partly isolated from each other. One 
system is within the individual and is called /earning; the 
other is immanent in heredity and in populations and is 
called evolution. One is a matter of the single lifetime; 
the other is a matter of multiple generations of 
many individuals. 
The task of this chapter is to show how these two sto- 
chastic systems, working at different levels of logical 
typing, fit together into a single ongoing biosphere that 
could not endure if either somatic or genetic change were 
fundamentally different from what it is. 
The unity of the combined system is necessary. 
But what about ‘‘me’’? Suppose | am a blind man, and 
| use a stick. 
| go tap, tap, tap. Where do/ 
start? 
Is my 
mental system bounded at the handle of the stick? 
Is it 
bounded by my skin? Does it start halfway up the 
stick? Does it start at the tip of the stick? But these are 
nonsense questions. The stick is a pathway along which 
transforms of difference are being transmitted. The way 
to delineate the system is to draw the limiting line in 
such a way that you do not cut any of these pathways in 
ways which leave things inexplicable. 
If what you are 
trying to explain is a given piece of behavior, such as the 
locomotion of the blind man, then, for this purpose, you 
will need the street, the stick, the man; the street, the 
stick, and so on, round and round. 
If you put God outside and set him vis-a-vis his creation 
and if you have the idea that you are created in his image, 
you will logically and naturally see yourself as outside 
and against the things around you. And as you arrogate 
all mind to yourself, you will see the world around you 
as mindless and therefore not entitled to moral or ethical 
consideration. The environment will seem to be yours to 
exploit. Your survival unit will be you and your folks 
or conspecifics against the environment of other social 
units, other races and the brutes and vegetables. 
If this is your estimate of your relation to nature and you 
have an advanced technology, your likelihood of survival 
will be that of a snowball in hell. You will die either of 
the toxic by-products of your own hate, or simply, of 
overpopulation and overgrazing. The raw materials of 
the world are finite. 
When you narrow down your epistemology and act on 
the premise ‘“‘what interests me is me, or my organization, 
or my species,” you chop off consideration of other loops 
of the loop structure. You decide that you want to get 
rid of the by-products of human life and that Lake Erie 
will be a good place to put them. You forget that the 
eco-mental system called Lake Erie is part of your wider 
eco-mental system — and that if Lake Erie is driven 
insane, its insanity is incorporated in the larger system 
of your thought and experience. 
It is very easy to fall into the notion that if the new is 
viable, then there must have been something wrong with 
the old. This view, to which organisms already suffering 
the pathologies of overrapid, frantic social change are 
inevitably prone, is, of course, mostly nonsense. What 
is a/ways important is to be sure that the new is not 
worse than the old. 
It is still not certain that a society 
containing the internal combustion engine can be viable 
or that electronic communication devices such as tele- 
vision are compatible with the aggressive intraspecies 
competition generated by the Industrial Revolution. 
Other things being equal (which is not often’the case), 
the old, which has been somewhat tested, is more likely to 
be viable than the new, which has not been tested at all. 
e 
Ross Ashby long ago pointed out that no system (neither 
computer nor organism) can produce anything new unless 
the system contains some source of the random. 
In the 
computer, this will be a random-number generator which 
will ensure that the “seeking,” trial-and-error moves of 
the machine will ultimately cover all the possibilities 
of the set to be explored... 
. 
This does not mean, by the way, that all divergent pro- 
cesses are stochastic. For that, the process requires not 
only access to the random but also a built-in comparator 
that in evolution is called “natural selection” and in 
thought “preference” or “reinforcement.” 
e 
| do not believe that the original purpose of the rain 
dance was to make “‘it’’ rain. 
| suspect that that is a 
degenerate misunderstanding of a much more profound 
religious need: to affirm membership in what we may 
call the ecological tautology, the eternal verities of life 
and environment. There’s always a tendency — almost 
a need — to vulgarize religion, to turn it into entertain- 
ment or politics or magic or “‘power.”” 
e 
Epistemology. A branch of science combined with a 
branch of philosophy. As science, epistemology is the 
study of how particular organisms or aggregates of organ- 
isms know, think, and decide. As philosophy, episte- 
mology is the study of the necessary limits and other 
characteristics of the processes of knowing, thinking, 
and deciding. 
e 
Information. Any difference that makes a difference. 
~ oS Et ee 
