S- oe = Cae 
DENTITY ISAF RAME; death is a curtain; we are all actors. Those who “act” the identity of 
others are directly connected to the lineage of Paleolithic shamans; first transformers; first 
knowers that identity is mutable. 
That their magic is fundamental is proven time and time again by the power available to even the puffiest 
bourgeois theatrical when it brushes this charged ground. 
A study of the following books will put stretch in your sense of self, aid the development of penetrating 
observation, and do for your human interactions what jogging does for the cardiovascular system. Become 
your own transformer. Practice throwing your own switches. 
You'll be surprised what your /ittle electric 
train can do. 
Audition 
Michael Shurtleff, casting director for such hits as The 
Graduate, Beckett, The Sound of Music, and Pippin, 
offers a montage of useful observations from a life spent 
discriminating winners and losers. Not as technique- 
oriented as Stanislavski, but a well-built compass 
indicating specific directions, and his tone and bits of 
show-biz lore are honest as a good comedian and quite 
in tune with the times. 
—Peter Coyote 
e 
An actor cannot play boredom or he will be boring. He 
must find what it is that the character wants instead of 
the boring condition he’s in, and he must fight for that. 
| use the word fight because the actor must find the 
strongest, most positive goal possible. Nothing less 
will do. 
e 
Humor is not being funny. 
It is the coin of exchange 
between human beings that makes it possible for us to 
get through the day. .. 
. One would sometimes think 
—Peter Coyote 
Audition 
(Everything an Actor 
Needs to Know to 
Get the Part) 
Michael Shurtleff 
1978; 187 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, |L 60016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
actors are trying to reverse the life process by what they 
do onstage. They take humor out instead of put it in. 
That’s what makes acting unlifelike. 
COMMUNICATIONS 
THEATER 
An Actor Prepares 
The Source Text. Stanislavski’s studies of the techniques 
of 
the best actors of his day are the basis of all subsequent 
teachings. 
His dedication and worship of nature are 
an inspiration. 
—Peter Coyote 
An Actor Prepares 
gee 
Constantin Stanislavski; 
Elizabeth Reynolds 
Hapgood, Translator 
1936, 1948; 295 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Theatre Arts Books 
153 Waverly Place 
New York, NY 10014 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
N 
LJ 
s 
. N = 
2 
FS 
e 
When you speak to the person who is playing opposite 
you, learn to follow through until you are certain your 
thoughts have penetrated his consciousness. Only after 
you are convinced of this and have added with your eyes 
what could not be put into words, should you continue 
to say the rest of your lines. 
Impro 
Most theater texts are like books on learning to ride a 
bike. Only after you have the hang of it are they valuable. 
This book is a rare peek into genius. Keith Johnstone, 
associated with George Devine and Tony Richardson of 
the Royal Court Theatre in London, creator of the 
Theatre Machine, comes across as a true magician, an 
inspired innovator of techniques for plugging people into 
the wellsprings of their own imaginations. 
One of the 
most useful and provocative books | have ever read 
on theater. 
—Peter Coyote 
[Suggested by Pat Ryan] 
Impro 
(Improvisation 
and the Theatre) 
Keith Johnstone 
1979; 208 pp. 
$1 1.95 postpaid from: 
Theatre Arts Books 
153 Waverly Place 
New York, NY 10014 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
There are people who prefer to say ‘Yes’ and there are 
people who prefer to say “‘No.’” Those who say ‘‘Yes’” 
are rewarded by the adventures they have, and those who 
say ‘‘No” are rewarded by the safety they attain. There 
are far more ‘‘No” sayers around than “‘Yes”’ sayers, but 
you can train one type to behave like the others. .. 
. 
Fred Karno understood this. When he interviewed 
aspiring actors he’d poke his pen into an empty inkwell 
and pretend to flick ink at them. 
If they mimed being 
hit in the eye, or whatever, he’d engage them. 
If they 
looked baffled and “blocked” him, then he wouldn't. 
e 
“Try to get your status just a little above or below your 
partner’s,”’ | said, and | insisted that the gap should be 
minimal. The actors seemed to know exactly what | 
meant and the work was transformed. The scenes became 
“authentic”, and actors seemed marvellously observant. 
Suddenly we understood that every inflection and move- 
ment implies a status, and that no action is due to chance, 
or really “‘motiveless’’. 
It was hysterically funny, but at 
the same time very alarming. All our secret manoeuvrings 
were exposed. 
If someone asked a question we didn't 
bother to answer it, we concentrated on why it had been 
asked. No one could make an “‘innocuous” remark 
without everyone instantly grasping what lay behind it. 
Normally we are ‘‘forbidden” to see status transactions 
except when there’s a conflict. 
In reality status trans- 
actions continue all the time. 
In the park we'll notice 
the ducks squabbling, but not how carefully they keep 
their distances when they are not. 
Improvisation for the Theater 
Widely considered the best source for getting non-rote 
life seething on the stage. Take the chances, interact, 
make it through the lameness into originality that is. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Scott Beach] 
Improvisation for 
the Theater 
Viola Spolin 
1963, 1973; 397 pp. 
$1 2.50 postpaid from: 
Northwestern 
University Press 
1735 Benson 
Department S80 
Evanston, IL 60201 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Hidden Conflict 
Two or more players. 
Where, Who, and What agreed upon. Each player takes 
a conflict and states it to himself in the first person 
without letting the other know what it is. 
POINT OF CONCENTRATION: never to verbalize the 
Problem (conflict). 
EXAMPLE: Where — kitchen. Who — husband and wife. 
What — breakfast. 
Hidden conflict: Husband — | am not going to work. 
ife — | want him to leave. I’m expecting a visitor. 
POINTS OF OBSERVATION 
1. Let audience know each player's hidden conflict. 
‘23 When the hidden conflict is stated, the scene is over. 
3. Variation of this is to write a series of hidden conflicts 
on slips of paper and let actors pick after they have 
decided on Where, Who, and What. 
4. HIDDEN CONFLICT forces use of objects and was 
One of the early exercises that started the semantic 
shift from “conflict” to “problem,” thus opening up 
new doors of inquiry. 
Acting: The First Six Lessons 
This book, about teaching a young lady, “The Creature,” 
what acting is about, is recommended for all anthropolo- 
gists, psychologists, and others who are impressed with 
the ridiculousness and grandeur of people. 
It’s done in 
the form of a dialogue between Boleslavsky and the 
creature and is almost impossible to quote because what 
the book has to say is mostly in the way the dialogue is 
put together. 
—Gregory Bateson 
Acting: The First 
Six Lessons 
Richard Boleslavsky 
1970; 122 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid from: 
Theatre Arts Books 
153 Waverly Place 
New York, NY 10014 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The Creature: Do you mean to say that Ophelia should 
not think? 
1: | wouldn’t be so rude as that, but | would say that 
Shakespeare did all the thinking for her. 
It is his mind at 
work which you should characterize while acting Ophelia, 
or for that matter, any Shakespearean character. The 
same goes for any author who has a mind of his own. 
The Creature: 
| never thought of that. 
| always tried to 
think the way | imagined the character would think. 
|: That is a mistake which almost every actor commits. 
Except geniuses — who know better. The most powerful 
weapon of an author is his mind. The quality of it, the 
speed, alertness, depth, brilliancy. 
All of that counts, 
without regard to whether he is writing words of Caliban 
or those of Jeanne d’Arc, or those of Osvald. A good 
writer's fool is no more foolish than his creator’s mind, 
and a prophet no more wise than the man who conceived 
him. Do you remember Romeo and Juliet? Lady Capulet 
says about Juliet, ‘She's not fourteen.” And then a few 
pages later Juliet speaks. 
eevee 
e eee 
ee 
eee 
eee 
reese 
Respect for Acting 
Uta Hagen’s book is an indispensable companion to 
Shurtleff’s, Stanislavski’s and Boleslavsky’s. A consum- 
mate actress and teacher, she offers precise methodologies 
for developing one’s intuitions, perceptions and responses, 
and coaxing open the doors of the subconscious as 
reservoir for solutions to acting problems. 
(Which are 
real-life problems, no?) 
Her style is passionate, and her standards are demand- 
ingly high, offered to what is best in world theater. 
She has also written an inspiring cookbook called 
Respect for Cooking 
—Peter Coyote 
Respect for Acting 
Uta Hagen 
with Haskel Frankel 
> 
1973; 227 pp. 
S 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
t 
Macmillan Publishing Co. 
Order Department 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
& el 
You must justify your character not judge him, or you 
will fall into one of two traps. Either you will soften and 
sentimentalize the character to.prove that “I’m not really 
like this,’ or you will bring about illustrative actions 
to tell an audience “look how evil he is." 
“My bounty is as boundless as the sea, 
My love as deep; the more | give to thee, 
The more | have, for both are infinite.” 
Confucius could have said that, or Buddha, or St. Francis. 
If you will try acting Juliet’s part in a way which charac- 
terizes her mind as a fourteen-year-old mind, you'll be 
lost. 
If you try to make her older you'll ruin Shake- 
speare’s theatrical conception which is that of a genius. 
If you try to explain it by the early maturity of Italian 
women, by the wisdom of the Italian Renaissance, and so 
forth, you will be all tangled up in archaeology and 
history, and your inspiration will be gone. All you have 
to do is to grasp the characterization of Shakespeare’s 
mind and follow it. 
The Creature: How would you describe the quality of it? 
1: A mind of lightning-like speed. Highly concentrated, 
authoritative, even in moments of doubt. Spontaneous, 
the first thought is always the last one. 
Direct and out- 
spoken. Don't misunderstand me, I'm not trying to 
describe or explain Shakespeare’s mind. No words can 
describe it. All | am trying to do is to tell you that 
whatever character of Shakespeare you perform, its mind 
(not yours but the character's) must have those qualities 
in its manifestation. You don’t have to think like Shake- 
speare, but the outward quality of thinking must be his. 
It is like portraying an acrobat. You don’t have to know 
how to stand on your head, but all the movements of 
your body must convey the idea that you are able to turn 
somersaults whenever you wish to do it. 
eee 
eece eee 
eee 
eee 
eee eee 
eee eee 
ee eee 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
He 
Don told me that Captain James Cook presented 
some island king with a turtle and the turtle is 
still alive and in the same family. 
