q 
yatt frydenland, 
a student of mine, 
once said 
“Do it right the first time.” 
Now, that’s a little bit tightass 
when applied to homedone things. 
Maybe it should read 
“Practice until you can 
do it right the first time.” 
or 
“A thing worth doing is worth doing.” 
or 
“Just go ahead and do it, 
whatever it is, 
and learn from your mistakes.” 
or 
“Find somebody who knows something 
and learn it from them.” 
or 
“Through industry we prosper,” 
and all that craft. 
—J.D. Smith 
The type face of the 
headline above, set in 
Gill Sans Bold 72 pt, was 
designed in 1928-30 by 
Eric Gill (1887-1940), 
British artist-craftsman 
who also did this wood- 
engraving ‘The Thorn in 
the Flesh.’ From Craft 
Magazine. See page 249 
for wood engraving tools. 
SCOTTISH 
ARTS 
COUNCIL 
Crafts 
The showcase for the best in British crafts, and one of 
the most beautifully produced and designed crafts 
magazines around. 
Regularly features (in glowing four- 
color) the work of the brightest new stars among weavers, 
jewelers, glassblowers and potters. Feature articles on 
trends, opportunities and problems in crafts. Includes a 
complete calendar and directory of craft galleries and 
shops, and runs a large classified advertising section of 
jobs, business opportunities and full- and part-time 
course listings. Reviews exhibitions and books (and 
prints a list of all books received.) What excites me so 
much about this magazine is the superb color photog- 
raphy and layout which translates the work and its 
essence so effectively and sensitively. 
—J. Prestianni 
Crafts 
_-= 1a 
Martina Margetts, Editor 
$18 /year (6 issues) 
¥ 
from: 
Expediters of the 
Printed Word, Ltd. 
527 Madison Avenue 
Suite 
1217 
New York, NY 10022 
or 
£9.20 /year (6 issues) 
from: 
Crafts Magazine 
28 Haymarket 
London SW1Y 4SU 
England 
Domino set in box by 
Desmond Ryan, 1975-77 
Front of 
a drawer, 
Early 
Eighteenth 
century 
The Nature and Art of Workmanship 
An attempt to define the aesthetics of craftsmanship ina 
classical scholarly mode. 
It has clear.insight and sound 
criteria for judging the quality of the objects that sur- 
round us without the blanket rejection of technology 
that is trapping many people in an alternative lifestyle 
of shoddy creativity. 
—Terry Gunesch 
The Nature and Art 
of Workmanship 
David Pye 
1968, 1979; 101 pp. 
$7.95 Postpaid from: 
Cambridge 
University Press 
510 North Avenue 
New Rochelle, NY 10801 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
For the crafts, in the modern world, there can be no half 
measures. There can be no reason for them to continue 
unless they produce only the best possible workmanship, 
free or regulated, allied to the best possible design: in 
other words, unless they produce only the very best 
quality. That quality is never got so quickly as more 
ordinary qualities are. 
e 
The crafts will survive as a means of livelihood only where 
there is a sufficient demand for the very best quality 
at any price. 
Free workmanship is one of the main sources of diversity. 
To achieve diversity in all its possible manifestations is 
the chief reason for continuing the workmanship of risk 
as a productive undertaking: in other words for per- 
petuating craftsmanship. 
There is a very present danger that, as the kinds of 
medium-scale diversity which free workmanship used to 
impart to building become less readily available, what 
little can be had in that way will be over-played and in 
the end travestied. We do not want every piece of 
concrete to show board-marks, every piece of paving to 
be cobbled, every piece of masonry to be random rubble, 
every piece of brickwork to be left unplastered. There is 
a place for all those things, but such elephantine capers 
unaccompanied by diversity at smaller scales become 
merely ludicrous. What we want is diversity which begins 
at the smallest visible scale and develops continuously 
upwards from that; and even then we do not want it 
always and everywhere. Vitamins are necessary to life, 
but only in small amounts. Take them in large amounts 
and they make you ill. So | believe it is with diversifi- 
Back of 
the same 
drawer 
It must be said at once that much furniture of this date 
was better made than this contemptible example, but 
really bad workmanship was not uncommon and it may 
be that the best was rarer than is generally supposed. Much 
of what survives is quite well made, but that perhaps 
merely confirms that quality is a good preservative. 
Things that are well made and well designed tend to sur- 
vive and things like this drawer tend to perish; which 
indeed it would probably have done but for the walnut 
veneering on the front, of which the workmanship is 
quite fair, and to which age has given a pleasant quality. 
At the back of it the point of the hand-forged nail has 
been shamelessly airing itself for two hundred and fifty 
ra 
years or so, but the slip of wood below the bottom at 
the corner, and the slobber of glue above it, are more 
recent embellishments. 
tad 
It is of very bad workmanship indeed, but that has not 
by 
prevented it from serving its purpose all those years. 
j= 
The nail with its point in the air has undeniably kept the 
4 
bottom on the drawer. Workmanship is not to be judged 
«5 
on a merely utilitarian footing. 
Nail 
detai 
cation in workmanship. 
| do not suggest it is more — or 
less — than a vitamin: not a diet: not a panacea: merely 
something which, though we may not take much notice 
of it, we need to have. 
Ruskin said, “If we build, let us think that we build for- 
ever.’’ 
Shall we say, ‘‘If we build, let us remember to 
build for the scrapheap?” 
Shall we make everything so 
that it goes wrong or breaks pretty quickly? | think not. 
Men do not live by economics alone, There is a ques- 
tion of morale involved. A world in which everything 
was ephemeral would not be worth working for. There 
are overwhelming social and aesthetic arguments for 
durability in certain things even if, as we are told, there 
are no economic ones. These are: 
First of all, the things we inherit from the past remind us 
that the men who made them were like us and give us a 
tangible link with them. This is a thought to set off 
against the knowledge that life is short. 
Hitherto it has 
been inconceivable that any one generation should dis- 
card all the equipment it has inherited and replace it 
completely. That may yet become possible. Even if it 
does, it will still be imperative for each generation 
deliberately to make some of its equipment so that it 
lasts and survives its makers. 
Secondly, if you are making a thing so that it goes wrong 
or breaks, then, however honestly you state the fact, two 
other facts remain. One is that you are putting as little 
into the job as you decently can. The other is that you 
are in a fair way to force its user to spend his money on 
replacing that thing instead of for some other purpose. 
He may be glad to replace it, in an age of materialism and 
the passion for novelty. But why should we all be 
compelled to keep spending money on renewing our car, 
our cooker and our refrigerator? These things for some 
people are merely means to other ends in life. Why 
should we not save the money so as to pursue those ends 
the better: altruistic, learned or artistic, say? Things 
which are made to fall early should be made maintain- 
able and repairable, so that a man who cares for some- 
thing other than novelty and status-symbols can make 
them last his time respectably while he gets on with his 
life. Optional durability is what we want. 
1 
The Book of Country Crafts 
Most craft books, I’ve noticed, either treat you as a retarded 
fifth grader or as an ambitious acolyte to The Craft of 
whatever. 
This book is 
by 
aman who enjoys doing his 
own stuff at his own place, and he makes you feel the 
same and shortens the route into doing it. He has range 
as well as depth: sections include Working with Wood, 
with Clay, with Metals, with Stone, and with Color. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Jude Harris] 
The Book of 
Country Crafts 
Randolph Wardell 
Johnston 
1964; 211 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid from: 
A.S. Barnes and Company 
P.O. Box 421 
Cranbury, NJ 08512 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The wheel shown is 
made of odds and ends. 
The shaft is an old Ford 
axle. 
At top and bot- 
tom are the original 
ball bearings of the car. The flywheel is from an old 
circular saw and is filled with cement. The wheel head is 
a clutch plate fitted tightly on the shaft end, and filled 
with plaster. The plaster was next turned true and 
recessed to hold bats of a certain size, by nailing a tempo- 
rary tool rest across and turning the plaster as if it were 
wood on a lathe. The rounded front guard is half of an 
old paint pail. And the seat is one of the older style, 
made of cast iron, from a hay rake. The cast iron ones 
are much superior to the pressed steel variety. 
| show 
this wheel because it has proven very handy. 
e 
Kinds of Stone 
Of all the stones used by the colonists for grave markers 
none has better resisted the weather than slate. The neat 
inscriptions on slabs of polished slate show even the light 
scratches that served as guides to the letterers. 
Artists 
should consider this when selecting stones on which to 
work. Slate is a pleasant material to carve. 
| have carved 
a full-size portrait relief in gray slate, direct from life, and 
| found it possible to use a wooden mallet and wood- 
carving chisels on the stone. To be sure it took the 
finest edge off the chisels, but not much more than this. 
A fine toothed claw chisel is good for roughing out. One 
soon becomes accustomed to the grain: 
Files, rifflers, 
sandpaper, and pumice all help in finishing. 
e 
Your blows should be light but plentiful, rather than 
strong and few, and this applies to any kind of . 
metal shaping. 
e 
Throughout the Scottish Highlands they clean wool with 
stale human urine, one part urine to four parts water. 
The bath is no hotter than the hand can bear — about 
101°F. The wool is squeezed and worked about by hand 
until it is clean, then thoroughly rinsed. 
Although 
nothing leaves the wool softer than urine, many people 
will prefer to wash it in a solution of ammonia or soft 
soap and hot water. Do not use washing soda, it makes 
the wool harsh. The wool loses about 20% of its weight. 
db Shaping by hammering in a hollow block 
