The Grassroots Fundraising Book 
How to Make Meetings Work 
Joan Flanagan tells how to put some power in your 
organization’s purse, without worrying about strings 
that may be attached to government or foundation grants. 
(See p. 308.) The book methodically outlines the planning 
process for fundraising events of all sizes, from a neigh- 
borhood book sale to a $50-a-plate dinner, and it offers 
suggestions for year-round fundraising like membership 
dues and setting your group up in business. 
In a comforting, conversational style the book helps you 
confront the stark realities of your group’s bottom line 
without hysteria, whether youre plotting a political 
campaign, saving seals, or keeping your volunteer fire 
company 
afloat. As treasurer of an organization struggling 
to meet a $55,000 budget, | refer to Flanagan’s book for 
both inspiration and nuts-and-bolts advice. 
—Nancy E. Dunn 
The Grassroots 
Fundraising Book 
(How to Raise Money 
in Your Community) 
1977; 219 pp. 
$5.75 postpaid from: 
The Youth Project 
1555 Connecticut Avenue 
NW Washington, 
DC 20036 
e 
There are a lot of benefits from doing your own fund- 
raising besides the cold, hard cash. When you map out 
your fundraising strategy, consider all that you can gain 
from raising your own budget by your own work. 
You gain self-sufficiency. A well-planned, long-range 
fundraising campaign will guarantee that you can pay 
your staff, buy your supplies, and run your program. 
It’s a good feeling to know you can take care of yourself, 
whether you are a not-for-profit corporation or an 
individual. 
You gain independence. When you have an income from 
a wide variety of fundraising events, you know you have 
the talent and the techniques to raise money. No one 
can threaten to cut off your funds. You are free to plan 
and run whatever programs the members choose. 
You gain peace of mind. Knowing you can plan and 
control your income will take away the anxiety of the 
leaky roof, or the horror of a missed payroll. You can 
use your energies to make things happen, rather than 
worry about which creditor to put off. As any coach will 
tell you, ‘Winners decide what they want to do. Losers 
worry about what they don’t want to have happen 
to them” 
You gain pride. Remember how proud you felt when you 
got your own first paycheck? The pride of raising your 
own money, and sharing the success, will boost the morale 
of your group in the same way. Grass roots money is 
honest money. Everyone in the group can be proud of 
his or her part in raising the money. You can answer any 
questions from a new member, a donor, or the press 
honestly and easily from your own open, up-to-date 
reports. Raising your money from a variety of sources 
will also reduce the temptation to accept money from 
any single donor who could compromise the organization. 
e 
Last, but certainly not least, decide to have fun while 
you raise the money. 
Plan the fun just like you plan the 
work. Make up your mind to have a good time, and your 
volunteers will be chomping at the bit to start the next 
project. 
nnn 
Human Development Training Manual 
Some of the densest wisdom I ‘ve seen on conducting 
meetings — direct, concise, and honorable. 
| wish I'd 
had it two years ago when we began work on our 
conference on technology. Rave review. 
—Stephanie Mills 
Human Development 
Training Manual 
$A postpaid from: 
William Meacham 
Human Development Training 
1980; 
21 pp. 
Training 
1004 Elm Street 
Austin, TX 78703 
e 
Our culture doesn’t stress the importance of telling people 
when you appreciate them, assuming such things don’t 
need to be said. Well, they do. Appreciation is as impor- 
tant as criticism, and it is wise to be open and direct 
with both. 
e 
Giving criticism can be hard, but it’s important. Usually 
it’s something about what a person does or the way they 
do it that we don’t like, rather than the person him/ 
herself, so it is important to give specific examples. 
Vague 
Specific 
“The kitchen was a mess 
“There was a dirty frying 
this morning!” 
pan and three dishes in the 
sink, and | didn’t like it.” 
!t always amazes me how a group of otherwise pleasant 
people can go collectively insane as soon as they get in 
a meeting together. Anyone who suffers through the 
wrangling and frustration of poorly run meetings will 
find this book very useful. 
[t analyzes common problems 
and suggests a straightforward, practical approach to 
improving the situation. | particularly like its emphasis 
on achieving consensus, a worthy goal that lots of people 
talk about without Knowing much of how it can be 
achieved. /t’s good to finally find some concrete tech- 
niques for this process. 
! worked for the authors of this book for a while and 
had a chance to try their method with several groups. 
It works! In fact, in one case a group of high school 
English teachers who hated department meetings became 
so turned on by achieving consensus that their principal 
interpreted their new found energy and enthusiasm as 
subversive and threatened to transfer three of them if 
they didn’t elect a chairman and give up consensus 
immediately. 
—Linda Williams 
How to Make 
Meetings Work 
(The New Interaction 
Method) 
Michael Doyle & 
David Straus 
1976, 1977; 300 pp. 
$2.50 postpaid from: 
Playboy Press 
Simon & Schuster 
Attn: Order Department 
1230 Avenue of the 
Americas 
New York, NY 10020 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
A clearly legible record of the key ideas of the meeting 
taped to the walls is called 
a group memory. 
a 
The very presence of the group memory has many bene- 
ficial effects. It provides a physical focus for the group. 
Rather than sitting in a closed circle around a conference 
table, channeling their energies toward each other, the 
members sit in a semicircle and automatically focus their 
energies on the problem as represented by the group 
memory. This simple change can make a tremendous 
difference. 
The group memory can also be a great benefit to you 
personally. You no longer have to hold on to an idea 
in your short-term memory. Once you have had a chance 
to express it to the group and have seen it recorded in the 
group memory, you know that your idea is captured and 
“remembered.” You will feel a great psychic release—you 
can let go because you know that the group has heard 
you and that you can recall your ideas simply by looking 
up at the record in front of you. There they are up on 
the wall in full view of everyone—they won't be forgotten. 
How to Use the Freedom 
of Information Act 
/n the historic American tradition of governmental checks 
and balances, the Freedom of Information Act lets the 
citizen participate in maintaining governmental candor. 
Ask, and if they know and it won't sink the republic to 
tell, they have to tell you. 
This is a modest run-down 
on the federal procedure. 
—SB 
How to Use the 
Freedom of 
Information Act 
(FOIA) 
L.G. Sherick 
1978; 138 pp. 
$3.50 postpaid from: 
Arco Publishing Company 
f 
New York, NY 10003 
, | 
or Whole Earth 
\ 
ue 
e 
No one seems to be above suspicion. When Bella Abzug 
York she asked the CIA what it had on her. To her 
surprise she found out that for 22 years the CIA — an 
219 Park Avenue South 
y 
Household Store 
was serving as a Democratic Representative from New 
organization charged with overseas intelligence gathering 
Loompanics 
Yes, there are books about the skills of apocalypse — 
spying, surveillance, fraud, wire-tapping, smuggling, 
self-defense, lockpicking, gunmanship, eavesdropping, 
car chasing, civil warfare, surviving jail, and dropping 
out of sight Apparently writing books is the way 
mercenaries bring in spare cash between wars. 
The books 
are useful, and it’s good the information is freely available 
(and they definitely inspire interesting dreams), but their 
advice should be taken with a salt-shaker or two and all 
SS 
Here are some ways to avoid or cut down on meeting time: 
Spread information by sending around a memo to all who 
; 
need to know, or posting it on a central bulletin board. 
Make a decision by sending a written proposal around 
with space for agreement, comment or proposed changes. 
Have a meeting only if disagreements are serious enough 
to need discussion to resolve them. 
Use individual, pair, or committee work instead of 
meetings with the whole group. 
Keep the number of people working on a project to the 
minimum needed to get it done; don’t tie up the whole 
group needlessly. 
Don’t have a meeting without preparation (see specific 
guidelines). 
If what you really need is a social event to build group 
morale, have a party or picnic, etc., instead of a meeting. 
as it concerns national security — had been monitoring 
her activities as a lawyer and politician. 
e 
Sample Request 
(Name and Address of Government Agency) 
Washington, D.C. Zip Code 
Re: Privacy Act Request 
Dear (agency head or Privacy Act Officer): 
Under the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 
U.S.C. 522a, | hereby request a copy of (or: access to) 
(describe the record or records you want and provide 
all the relevant information you have concerning them). 
If there are any fees for copying the records | am reques- 
ting, please inform me before you fill the request. 
(or: 
. 
.. please supply the records without informing me if 
the fees do not exceed $ —_..) 
If all or any part of this request is denied, please cite 
the specific exemption(s) which you think justifies your 
refusal to release the information. Also, please inform 
me of your agency's appeal procedure. 
In order to expedite consideration of my request, | am 
enclosing a copy of 
(some document of identifi- 
cation). 
If you wish to discuss the matter, my telephone 
number is (Area Code + 
Thanking you in advance for your time and considera- 
tion, |am, 
Sincerely, 
your wits. A few of these volumes are truly scary. Loom- 
panics is the best of the Libertarian suppliers who carry 
them. Though full of “you‘ll-wish-you ‘d-read-these-when- 
its-too-late’’ rhetoric, theircatalog is genuinely informative. 
— Art Kleiner 
Loompanics 
$2 from: 
Catalog 
Loompanics Unlimited 
P.O. Box 264 
Mason, MI 48854 
e 
Fundamentals of Physical Surveillance 
Here is an excellent addition to our best-selling line of 
police manuals — a how-to-do-it book on shadowing 
and spying! 
Law enforcement personnel are only one of many groups 
who will find this book to be an invaluable guide to 
physical surveillance. It will also be useful to government 
agency investigators who operate without police power, 
to private investigators, and to personnel employed in 
investigative capacities for industrial concerns, insurance 
companies, and law firms. 
ls Big Brother watching you??? Or do you want to spy 
on someone? This comprehensive and important book 
has many uses. Highly recommended. 
