COMMUNICATIONS 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS 495 
INTELSAT IV-A, also twelve transponders of 36 MHz, 
designed for intercontinental transmission. 
—— 
Future Developments 
in Telecommunications 
With his high-powered seminars and prolific writings, 
James Martin has become a lord high guru of telecommu- 
nicationsdom. 
In keeping with this reputation, his Future 
Developments in Telecommunications has the twin virtues 
of being both meaty and accessible. 
The writing style is 
clean and you can’t help but get a sense of the breadth 
and scope of the field while scanning through the pages. 
The book is divided into three parts: the first provides an 
overview of the telecommunications scene today; the 
second offers a “synthesis” that blends emerging tech- 
nologies into a scenario of the future; and the third gets 
down to a hard /ook at the technology of the technology. 
Future Developments can be used as both an introductory 
telecommunications text and as a reference work. 
It’s 
—Michael Schrage 
well worth the hefty price tag. 
Future Developments 
in Telecommunications 
James Martin 
1971, 1977; 668 pp. 
2nd Edition 
$34.95 postpaid from: 
Prentice-Hall 
Box 500 
Englewood Cliffs, NJ 
07632 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
people who make few outgoing calls. Party lines, a long- 
time staple of cheap telephone service, are being 
phased out. 
Custom Calling Services I. AT&T is quite proud of these 
new features; they’re interesting but I wonder about 
their usefulness. “Call Forwarding” means the Bell 
System, on your instruction, automatically transfers 
incoming calls from your phone to another phone. 
“Three-Way Calling” lets you set up a simultaneous chat 
between yourself and people at two other phone numbers. 
“Call Waiting” is a residential version of putting someone 
on hold while you take another call. “Speed Calling” 
sets up short-cut two-digit codes for your most frequently 
called numbers. Rates for these sub-options vary from 
$5 to $20 per month. One friend who has all four 
services plays them against each other, speed-dialing three- 
way conversations which he then puts on hold to take 
another call — all from someone else’s phone to which 
he’s had his calls forwarded. 
Custom Calling Services II. Not yet available but planned 
for late 1980/early 1981. They seem more useful and 
also a bit scarier. “Call Answering” will record messages 
when you’re not there, like an answering machine built 
into the central AT&T switching system. “Voice Storage” 
will record your message and, at a specified time, dial 
someone else’s number and replay the message for them. 
(Wait till teenagers and telephone solicitors get to experi-~ 
ment with it...) ‘‘Personal Identification Number” 
(PIN) cards will replace AT&T credit cards next year. 
The PIN number will be a general identification number, 
issued by the phone company, for telephone-call billing, 
shopping by phone, and banking by phone. “You can 
travel all over the country, and if you leave word the 
central switching computer will find you when it needs 
to,” the representatives from Pacific Telephone (an AT&T 
subsidiary) told me. 
If this prospect seems more threatening than promising, 
you may want to look into the services of AT&T's com- 
petitors, the independent long-distance phone companies. 
They can provide substantial savings over the Bell System 
if you make $100 or more worth of long-distance calls 
per month. (Incidentally, some people feel outraged at 
the thought of spending so much money on long-distance 
telephoning. However, I and many of the people I know 
are cross-continentally mobile, and we depend on the 
telephone to keep in touch. Uses much less energy than 
a 3000-mile trip, too.) 
To use an independent phone company, you dial their 
number, then your account number, and then the number 
you want to reach. The advantage is the huge savings 
(30 - 60% of regular rates) and the mobility of making 
calls on your account from anywhere. Also the small 
companies break the bill down by destination — a much 
simpler to read format. The disadvantages are those extra 
The communication satellite. 
Satellites have provided telephone and tele- 
vision links 
to the underdeveloped world. The satellite antennae in some under- 
developed countries stand next to fields ploughed by oxen. Now satellites have 
the potential of revolutionizing corporate communications both nationally and 
internationally 
Low-cost satellite earth stations. 
Planar microwave circuits make it possible 
to mass-produce satellite receiving equipment at very low cost 
Satellite re- 
ceivers cheap enough for home purchase have been used in Canada, Japan, 
and India. 
Demand-assigned multiple-acceys equipment. 
Satellite or high-capacity chan- 
nels can be shared by multiple goegraphically dispersed users in a highly flexi- 
ble manner, portions of channel capacity being allocated to users according to 
their instantaneous needs 
The helical waveguide. 
A pipe. now operating, that can carry 250,000 or 
more simultaneous telephone calls or equivalent information, in digital form, 
over long distances. 
The laser. 
This means 
of transmission has the theoretical potential of 
carrying many millions of simultaneous telephone calls or their equivalent 
It is being used with optical fibers to carry several thousand. 
Optical fibers. 
A thin flexible fiber made of extremely pure glass which can 
carry a thousand times as much information as a copper wire pair. Optical 
communication fibers are now on the market; some are in use carrying public 
telephone 
calls. Many thousands 
of such fibers can be packed into one 
flexible cable. 
Large-scale integration (LS1). 
A form of ultraminiaturized computer cir- 
cuitry that probably marks the beginning of mass production of computerlike 
logic circuitry. It offers the potential of extremely reliable, extremely small, 
and, in some of its forms, extremely fast logic circuitry and memory. If large- 
enough quantities can be built, this circuitry can become very low in cost 
On-line real-time 
computers. 
Computers capable of responding to many dis- 
tant terminals on telecommunication lines at a speed geared to human thinking. 
They have the potential of bringing the power and information of innumerable 
computers into every office and eventually every home 
Microcomputers. 
Mass-producible miniature computers of low cost 
Video telephones. 
Telephones with which subscribers see as well as hear 
each other or can see still images. 
Large TV screens, 
TY screens that can occupy a wall if necessary 
Cable TV, 
Acable into homes with a potential signal-carrying capacity more 
than one thousand times that of the telephone cable. 
It can be used for signals 
other than television. 
Voice answerback. 
Computers can now assemble human-voice words and 
speak them over the telephone. 
Voice answerback 
and the pushbutton 
telephone set, makes every such telephone a potential computer terminal. 
Millimeter-wave radio, 
Radio at frequencies in the band above the micro- 
wave band can relay a quantity of information greater than all the other radio 
bands combined. Chains of closely spaced antennas will distribute these milli- 
meter-wave signals. 
Cellular mobile radio. 
A system organization that will permit many radio 
telephones or other mobile radio devices in a city 
Packet radio. 
Radio systems for computer terminals that will make pocket 
terminals, or other small mobile terminals practicable. 
Data broadcasting. 
'nformation can be broadcast in digital form at VHF or 
UHF 
frequencies for reception on home TV sets, special terminals, or portable 
devices. 
Pulse 
code modulation. 
All signals, including telephone, Picturephone, mu- 
sic, facsimile, 
and television, 
can be converted into digital bit streams and trans- 
mitted, along with computer data, over the same digital links. Major advantages 
accrue from this. 
Codecs. 
Circuits which convert signals such as speech, music, and televi- 
sion into a bit stream, and convert such bit streams back into the original sig- 
nal. Codecs will become increasingly inexpensive and efficient 
Computerized switching. 
C computerized telephone exchanges are coming 
into operation offering many new services, and computerlike logic can be em- 
ployed for switching and “concentrating” all types of signals. 
Data banks. 
Electronic storage for huge quantities of information that can be 
manipulated and indexed by computers and that can be accessed in a fraction 
of a second. 
Packet switching networks 
One way of building generalized switched data 
networks interconnecting computers and terminals. A widely accepted stand- 
ard CCITT 
x .25 exists so that packet switching networks of different 
countries will be interconnectable. 
Major inventions and developments which, in combination, have the potential of changing the fabric of society 
. 
An extensive use of EFT (Electronic Fund Transfer) will 
reduce the ‘‘float’’ money within a country, like taking 
up the slack in an anchor rope. 
It will make the float 
available for people or corporations to spend. Economists 
use the phrase “velocity of money” to refer to the rate at 
which money turns over. Today one dollar issued by the 
government might be spent 17 times in the course of the 
Express Mail 
If you are as bad about meeting deadlines as | am, or if 
you live in a perpetual state of last minute, or if your 
lover lives in San Francisco and you are in Manhattan — 
the U.S. Postal Service Express Mail Service may 
be just 
what you need. 
It works like this: bring your letter or package to a 
designated Express Mail Post Office by 5 p.m. and it will 
be delivered to the Express Mail Window of the designated 
Post Office near the area of your choice by 10 a.m. the 
COMPUTER TECHNOLOGY 
D-30 communications 
computer 
dataphone 
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY 
iM 
1930 
year. With EFT, the velocity would be higher, perhaps 
much higher; the same dollar issued would be spent many 
more times. Unless compensating controls were devised 
this increase in the velocity of money would probably 
have an inflationary effect. As with a vehicle, the faster 
the velocity the tighter the controls must be. Today’s 
mechanisms would provide inadequate control. 
next day. 
To find the nearest Express Mail-Post Office, 
call your local Post Office or check your phone book. 
/t’s up to you to notify someone to pick up the mail. 
A regular letter (up to one pound) is roughly $6 (ask for 
A-Label Service). For an additional $2 the Postal Service 
will deliver it to the addressee by 3 p.m. the next day 
(ask for B-Label Service). 
Rates vary a little depending 
on distance. 
There is Express Mail service in many metropolitan 
areas now. 
—Rick Fields 
cars 
ission ePnone networ 
Ser 
FANSMISSION 
fully digitised 
electronic 
experimental digital 
switching 
television 
timesharing 
home videocomputers 
1980 
FF 
ses 
FSS 
$ 
os 
SS 
FOSS 
T SEES 
FF 
SS 
Es 
= 
SP, 
SF FESS ELE LO SF 
s es 
s 
LE 
SKE SES IE SE 
SF 
EE 
SF 
“ 
SEE 
KSEE 
PSE SS S KS 
PF 
CIF oO CTL SFY 
EX 
F 
SH 
PKS 
Soe 
igs 
f 
& 
Ys 
RS 
¢ 
cx 
é 
é 
< 
es 
s 
8 
é 
digits to punch, plus poorer overall service than the Bell 
System — bad connections, sudden disconnections, and 
echoed voices. (When it comes to transmission quality, 
U.S. citizens are spoiled, as anyone who has tried phoning 
home from Tierra del Fuego will attest.) In addition, the 
independents operate only in large city areas. They don’t 
have the millions of dollars to invest in circuitry that AT&T 
has. Reportedly the smaller companies are improving 
their service each year, especially over medium distances. 
Information on each of them is free. 
Sprint, Southern Pacific Communications, P.O. Box 974, 
Burlingame, CA 94010. The easiest to use and the service 
most directly aimed at home users. 
It’s managed by the 
Southern Pacific Company, which transmits on micro- 
wave links strung along their old railroad tracks. Many 
have suggested the service to us; some are annoyed with 
the poor quality and others don’t notice it. It apparently 
depends on luck. 
Microwave Communications, Inc. (MCI), 1621 Euclid 
Avenue, Suite 1414, Cleveland, OH 44115. MCI uses 
more satellites, probably has slightly better service, is 
a little more difficult to use than Sprint. 
ITT City Call, International Telephone and Telegraph, 
Two Broadway, 21st Floor, New York, NY 10004. 
Attn: Len Seasonwein. ITT discourages non-business 
use, but if you can get an account with them, it’s worth 
it, because their technical connections are almost as 
good as Ma Bell’s, and they’re cheaper. Especially good 
for those who make $300 or more long-distance calls a 
“month, or for a commune or shared household. 
® 
mise 
OOOO 
CO 
BO 
CO 
oOo 
8 6 eee 
The Changing Information Environment 
Planet implodes! Everything is changed! Few notice! 
This book notices. 
The Changing 
Information 
Environment 
John McHale 
1976;117 pp. 
$18 postpaid from: 
Westview Press 
5500 Central Avenue 
Boulder, CO 80301 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Information and knowledge, as resources in themselves, 
are not reduced or lessened by increased use or wider 
sharing — rather they may gain in the process. 
ota ie ve) acelte ‘et (6 16 6) 6 '\e: 6,0 6 ee) (6) eee We) Bee Cee 
e 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
“We're keeping our place clean by keeping some- 
place else dirty — with electricity.” 
ry 
—Daniel 
y 
on ‘Wl 
bean, 
Tupies 
ise by 
1990 
2 
Se 
So as 
ms 
oo 
oe | 
THE 
NEW 
INFORMATION 
ENVIRONMENT 
