WHOLE SYSTEMS 
FULLER 
Nine Chains to the Moon 
Nine Chains 
to the Moon 
R. Buckminster Fuller 
1938, 1963; 375 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid fram: 
Doubleday and Co., Inc. 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Man? 
A self-balancing, 28-jointed adapter-base biped; an 
electro-chemical reduction-plant, integral with segregated 
stowages of special energy extracts in storage batteries, 
for subsequent actuation of thousands of hydraulic and 
pneumatic pumps, with motors attached; 62,000 miles of 
capillaries; millions of warning signal, railroad and 
conveyor systems; crushers and cranes (of which the arms 
are magnificent 23-jointed affairs with self-surfacing and 
lubricating systems, and a universally distributed tele- 
phone system needing no service for 70 years if well 
managed); the whole, extraordinarily complex mecha- 
nism guided with exquisite precision from a turret in 
which are located telescopic and microscopic self-register- 
ing and recording range finders, a spectroscope, et cetera, 
the turret control being closely allied with an air con- 
ditioning intake-and-exhaust, and a main fuel intake. 
Within the few cubic inches housing the turret mecha- 
nisms, there is room, also, for two sound-wave and 
sound-direction-finder recording diaphragms, a filing and 
instant reference system, and an expertly devised ana- 
lytical laboratory large enough not only to contain 
minute records of every last and continual event of up 
to 70 years’ experience, or more, but to extend, by 
computation and abstract fabrication, this experience 
with relative accuracy into all corners of the observed 
universe. There is, also, a forecasting and tactical plotting 
department for the reduction of future possibilities and 
probabilities to generally successful specific choice. 
Finally, the whole structure is not only directly and 
simply mobile on land and in water, but, indirectly and 
by exquisite precision of complexity, mobile in air, and, 
even in the intangible, mathematically sensed electrical 
“world,” by means of the extension of the primary 
integral mechanism to secondary mechanical composi- 
tions of its own devising, operable either by a direct 
mechanical hook-up with the device, or by indirect 
control through wired or wire-less electrical impulses. 
ACK IN 1967 the insights 
of Buckminster Fuller initiated the Whole Earth Catalog. 
The artists / 
hung out with in those days had all been electrified by Fuller’s earliest, most radical book — 
Nine Chains to the Moon. 
Then / read the autobiographical \deas and Integrities and picked 
up a number of rules | seldom break — go only where invited; don’t show unfinished work; reflect the 
physical world’s honesty and all will go well. Then | heard him lecture for a number of weeks ata 
nearby college — the amazingly rich material you can disappear into in the two Synergetics books. From 
all that came the ideas “access,” “tools,” and “whole systems.” There’s lots more in there. 
—SB 
“A man," indeed! 
Dismissed with the appellation 
Mr. ““Jones’’! 
Common to all such “human’’ mechanisms — and without 
which they are imbecile contraptions — is their guidance 
by a phantom captain. 
This phantom captain has neither weight nor sensorial 
tangibility, as has often been scientifically proven by 
careful weighing operations at the moment of abandon- 
ment of the ship by the phantom captain, i.e., at the 
instant of “death.” He may be likened to the variant of 
polarity dominance in our bipolar electric world which, 
when balanced and unit, vanishes as abstract unity 1 or O. 
With the phantom captain’s departure, the mechanism 
becomes inoperative and very quickly disintegrates into 
basic chemical elements. 
e 
An illuminating rationalization indicated that captains — 
being phantom, abstract, infinite, and bound to other 
captains by a bond of understanding as proven by their 
recognition of each other's signals and the meaning 
thereof by reference to a common direction (toward 
“perfect’’) — are not only all related, but are one and the 
same captain. Mathematically, since characteristics of 
unity exist, they cannot be non-identical. 
eS 
EEE 
Ideas and Integrities 
Ideas and Integrities 
(A Spontaneous Auto- 
biographical Disclosure) 
R. Buckminster Fuller 
1963; 318 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid from: 
Collier Books 
The MacMillan Company 
Order Department 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Synergetics 1 & 2 
This formidable pair of books is as close to the Compleat 
Bucky as you are likely to get. They benefit from the 
firm and empathetic editorial hand of E.J. Applewhite, 
who has adroitly disciplined the sometimes baffling 
complexity of Fuller’s thought. 
The result is highly 
refined Bucky: elegant, clear, and upon occasion, out- 
rageous. 
The geometric proofs are there of course, but 
| found the most exciting discussions to be those dealing 
with intuition, metaphysics, and the range of possibilities 
open to humanity. 
The two books are intended to be read together and share 
a numbered paragraph system and a common index. 
This 
makes it possible to refer back to something that you 
remember reading but can’t recall where, and makes it 
Synergetics 
(Explorations in the 
Geometry of Thinking) 
R. Buckminster Fuller 
1975; 876 pp. 
Synergetics 2 
(Further Explorations 
in the Geometry 
of Thinking) 
R. Buckminster Fuller 
1979; 592 pp. 
$27.50 each 
postpaid from: 
MacMillan Publishing 
Company, Inc. 
Order Department 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Fig. 1130.24 
Reality is Spiro-orbital: All terrestrial 
critical path developments inherently orbit the Sun. 
No path can be linear. 
All paths are precessionally 
modulated by remotely operative forces producing 
spiralinear paths. 
e 
Standing by the lake on a jump-or-think basis, the very 
first spontaneous question coming to mind was, “‘If you 
put aside everything you've ever been asked to believe 
and have recourse only to your own experiences do you 
have any conviction arising from those experiences which 
either discards or must assume an a priori greater intellect 
than the intellect of man?’’ The answer was swift and 
positive. Experience had clearly demonstrated an a priori 
anticipatory and only intellectually apprehendable order- 
liness of interactive principles operating in the universe 
into which we are born. These principles are discovered 
but are never invented by man. | said to myself, “| have 
faith in the integrity of the anticipatory intellectual 
wisdom which we may call ‘God.’ '’ My next question 
was, ‘Do | know best or does God know best whether | 
may be of any value to the integrity of universe?” The 
comparatively easy to dip back and forth between the 
books. 
There is work involved in reading them. | have 
found that the best way to get into reading them is to 
just pick one up and start prowling around. One thing 
soon leads to another (which is one of Bucky’s main 
points) and soon you are immersed in a vision of 
Universe that seems much more substantially argued than 
in other Bucky writings. 
The approach is commendably 
cross-disciplinary, so it’s easy to get involved. 
It’s Bucky 
at his sharpest and most beautiful. 
Friends will rejoice in what they find here. Foes will have 
to admit that Bucky has been proven right often enough 
to be disconcerting. 
History will likely regard these books 
as classic examples of the best of 20th century thought. 
—J. Baldwin 
1mile + 1% inches 
ea 
|_— radius of earth 
4000 miles 
j{— 0.015" 
Fig. 986.076 Diagram of Verrazano Bridge: The two 
towers are not parallel to each other. 
e 
1053.832 
Radiation outcasts. Radiation does not 
broadcast; broadcast is a planar statement, there are no 
planes. Out is inherently omnidivergent. Radiation 
omnicasts but does not and cannot /ncast, it can only 
go-in-to-go-out. /n is gravity. 
1053.833 
If radiation “goes through’’ a system and 
comes out on the other side, it does so because (1) there 
was no frequency interference — it just occurred between 
the system's occurrence frequencies — or (2) there was 
tangential interference and deflection thereby of the 
angle of travel, wherefore it did not go through; 
it went by. 
CENTER OF GALAXY 
answer was, “You don’t know and no man knows, but the 
faith you have just established out of experience imposes 
recognition of the a priori wisdom of the fact of your 
being.’” Apparently addressing myself, | said, ‘‘You do 
not have the right to eliminate yourself, you do not 
belong to you. You belong to the universe. The sig- 
nificance of you will forever remain obscure to you, but 
you may assume that you are fulfilling your significance 
if you apply yourself to converting all your experience 
to highest advantage of others. You and all men are here 
for the sake of other men.” 
e 
| define “synergy” as follows: Synergy is the unique 
behavior of whole systems, unpredicted by behavior of 
their respective sub-systems’ events. 
The Character of Physical Law 
ce 
ee 
ee 
/f you look larger or smaller than the skinny realm of 
life, all you see is physics. 
It is our substratum and super- 
stratum. 
These famous Feynman /ectures introduce the 
subject as no other book has. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Lyle Burkhead] 
The Character 
of Physical Law 
Richard Feynman 
1965; 173 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
M.1.T. Press 
28 Carleton Street 
Cambridge, MA 02142 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Water 
pulled parlty 
Sway fron Z2arth by mom 
The water at y is closer to 
the moon and the water at 
x is farther from the moon 
than the rigid earth. The 
water is pulled more to- 
wards the moon at y, and 
at x is less towards the 
moon than the earth, so 
there is a combination of 
those two pictures that 
makes a double tide. 
arth pniled partly 
Away from waters bu mam 
AKkusA Sctustion 
o 
Bucky tells all 
a 
Forty-three hours of good quality color video tapes (not 
all one lecture, despite his reputation) let R. Buckminster 
Fuller say the majority of what he has to say, but witha 
difference. 
In this format, he can make many of the 
intricate connections between concepts that cannot be 
made in a short one-shot lecture. 
Obviously he can go 
into things much more deeply than he does in his more- 
or-less standard beginner's lecture which is what most 
people are familiar with. Arrangements setting up a 
seminar featuring these tapes might be arranged 
by writing: 
—J. Baldwin 
The Fuller Archives 
3500 Market Street 
Philadelphia, PA 19104 
