The Next 200 Years 
By the year 2176, Kahn et al predict, the population of 
the world will be leveled at 15 billion souls, with a per 
capita economic activity of $20,000 (world per capita 
product now is $1500). 
The book proposes that the level- 
ing off of population and ecortomic growth will be 
based not on limitations of supply but limitations of 
demand. People will have enough. 
That is diametric news, 180° out from most economic 
wisdom, which assumes always infinite demand meeting 
always finite supply. 
The authors make a persuasive case 
refuting The Limits to Growth on the continuing availa- 
bility of materials and energy. And they have paid close 
attention to the behavior of affluent groups such as the 
outlaw/citizens of the Counter Culture. 
In other words, they have an adaptive model, the only 
one | know of. It assumes that people learn. And inter- 
estingly it inverts the understandings of Marshall 
McCluhan, early Herman Kahn, and others who have 
said the technology determines values. Once the survival 
basics are covered, they suggest, then increasingly values 
determine technology. 
Paul Ehrlich once commented that Kahn’‘s first future 
book, The Year 2000 (17968), was fine as far as it went, 
except that it failed to even mention population, environ- 
ment, or ecology, which practically from the date of 
publication became major determinants of events. 
That 
criticism won't hold for this book. Kahn is still an 
optimist, and still an economist, but his perspective is 
steadily more ecological. 
He’s learned more than his 
critics (often from them), and has more of interest to 
say to me. 
A convert from my previous apocalyptic fervor, | now 
carry Kahn’s as my working model of the future. After 
four years it’s still holding up fine, which is unusual 
in the futures business. What / like best about Kahn is 
that he warns about the dangers of continuing affluence 
and peace, and how to withstand them. 
—SB 
It is useful to distinguish four kinds of economic activities: 
primary, secondary, tertiary and quaternary. 
Primary economic activities are extractive — principally 
e Promise of the Coming Dark Age 
iD 
ssi 
This book is a rich work of contemporary scholarship — 
full of good stuff. 
In some ways, the flesh is better than 
the bones of it The Promise is: a diverse decentralist 
world humming with development at many levels, from 
the neighborhood to the nation. 
The tendencies which 
are leading us there are: ““Demo-Technology,” Worker 
Control, Participatory Democracy, and Self-Actualization: 
obvious, but nice bones. 
Ah, but the pleasures of the flesh! Lots of his evidence is 
news; Stavrianos has admirable taste in information. 
There are sketches of rural industrialization in China, an 
experiment in “total systems” work enrichment at a 
Proctor and Gamble plant, McGovern’s campaign and 
defeat, the successful revolution in Guineau-Bissau, the 
insights offered by Soviet dissidents, and the inequities 
underlying the Brazilian economic miracle, to give a 
few examples. 
Being a responsible intellectual, Stavrianos balances things 
fairly. He admits the flaws in the exemplary systems — 
thus a nice comeuppance effect, which is the truth of an 
The Next 200 Years 
(A Scenario for America 
and the World) 
Herman Kahn, William 
Brown & Leon Martel 
1976; 241 pp. 
$4.50 postpaid from: 
William Morrow and Co. 
Wilmor Warehouse 
6 Henderson Drive 
West Caldwell, NJ 07006 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
agriculture, mining, forestry and fishing. One can think of 
the corresponding society and culture as being organized 
to “play games with and against nature” and for protection 
against “barbarian” invaders and raiders; in such a society 
the ratio of rural to urban dwellers is in the range of twenty 
to one, with the former supporting the latter by some kind 
of primary activity. 
Secondary economic activities have to do with construction 
and manufacturing. The corresponding society and culture, 
primarily urban, are organized mainly to “‘play games with 
and against materials, as well as against nature,’’ and the 
other major activity tends to be organized warfare, both 
offensive and defensive. 
Initially the emerging postindustrial economy will be 
characterized by a service economy, emphasizing what are 
called tertiary economic activities — services that support 
primary and secondary activities, such as transportation, 
insurance, finance, management, many governmental 
activities, much education and training. Nature becomes 
a relatively controllable variable and constraints set by 
materials become less and less important as technology and 
affluence increase. This results in a society and culture, 
probably more suburban than urban, whose major activity 
is ‘‘games with and against organizations,’’ and which is 
characterized by a structural society which emphasizes 
organizational and professional pluralism in the distribution 
of power and prestige. Knowledge rather than experience 
becomes the major asset and there isan increasing problem 
The Promise of the 
Coming Dark Age 
L.S. Stavrianos 
1976; 211 pp. 
$7.50 postpaid from: 
W.H. Freeman & Co. 
660 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
innovative situation. Just as you’re beginning to think 
that Yugoslav experiments in worker control of factories 
spell the wave of the future, he tells you what the prob- 
lems have been, then moves you on over to another 
drawing board. 
/s it a curse or a blessing to live in interesting times? 
The latter if we can be wise enough to delight in the 
sight of grass sprouting up in the cracks of our cherished 
pavement. Stavrianos offers us a spectrum of develop- 
The View from the Barrio 
What a refreshment this book was after reading a handful 
of “future” books — scholarly radical technological 
inflated prophetic advice gas — which left me with a 
depressed feeling that the future is just words. 
The real future will be made of much that is reported in 
this book (and approximately unknown to the scholars). 
Namely rural Third World people in newly rich economies 
and new planned cities, subverting the planners and 
transforming their own lives. 
La Laja is a barrio in the planned Venezuelan city of 
Ciudad Guayana. 
Dr. Peattie was there for 2% years 
with her family, taking part in barrio life and paying 
structured attention to what was going on. Social life 
around her was loose, fluid to a swiftly changing environ- 
ment and economy. People were self-organizing only 
around critical community issues such as water or sewers. 
From the barrio it was a huge impassable distance to the 
planners, so when something came down that was 
intolerable they would beef futiley for a while and then 
plant dynamite under it. Nothing romantic. Just making 
do, getting by. 
It dynamited my depression. 
—SB 
The View from 
the Barrio 
Lisa Redfield Peattie 
1968; 147 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid from: 
The University of 
Michigan Press 
P.O. Box 1104 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106 
Another part of La Laja’s natural environment consists 
of the strip of unimproved land just beyond the Iron 
Mines fence. This land, covered with brush and cactus, 
is often used for toileting, especially by children; debris 
may be dumped there, and children collect certain wild 
fruits in the brush. Some medicinal plants (from an 
extensive fold pharmacopeia of herbal remedies) are 
collected there by adults. Some men of the barrio shoot 
birds in this piece of monte. Boys hunt birds and 
sometimes rats with stones, either thrown or projected 
with a sling shot; their accuracy is astonishing by 
American standards. 
REaES 
Ta 
shale 
be 
vlc 
ale 
«6 
s)\e 
© 
(6 
0'¢-6) 
00.00 
0.9.0 
0) 
9:0 
0 © 
010) 
6 © 
0, 
65) 
9 
68) 
9:0) 
5 6 68 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
FUTURE 
of ‘educated incapacity.""* Wars no longer “‘pay”’ and the 
recourse to large-scale organized violence becomes restricted 
generally to defensive situations or attempts to preserve 
some aspect of the status quo. 
Eventually, in the 21st century, we should expect a transi- 
tion to a different kind of service economy, to what we term 
a quaternary, or truly postindustrial, economy. 
Here the 
primary, secondary and tertiary activities will constitute only 
a small part of human endeavors; more and more people will 
do things for their own sake, and even more than today 
ends will become more important than means. 
*By “‘educated incapacity’”’ we mean an acquired or 
learned inability to understand or see a problem, much 
less 
asolution. 
Increasingly, the more expert, or at least 
the more educated, a person is, the more likely he is to be 
affected by this. 
A Bicentennial and/or Realistic Perspective on 
Prospects for Mankind 
(in fixed 1975 dollars) 
$300 trillion 
GP 
1976: 
DIN 
1 
Ion people 
4.1 
$5.5 trillion Ge 
% 1300 per capita 
1776) 
750 million people 
$150 Dillion GHP 
$200 per capita 
We would recommend the world-wide creation of a number 
of public and private institutions with various specific 
purposes, but all with an overall mission of the systematic 
15 Dillion people 
$20,000 per Capite 
and intense study of far-fetched and improbable phenomena, 
but phenomena which would be extremely important were 
they to occur. 
In effect, these institutions would together 
constitute an articulate lobby and an “early warning system” 
for long-term environmental problems. 
It is only fair to 
warn the public that anyone who studies such phenomena 
full time is almost certain to exaggerate their likelihood, 
impact and dangers. To do so is simply human nature. We d 
want the people making these studies to conduct them with 
an almost fanatic intensity, since such fanaticism can be 
very useful in sustaining interest, drive and even creativity. 
But we do not want this fanaticism to be carried over into 
judgments on public policy. 
ments that tend towards a liberation of humanity; that 
hope, arching in the noosphere, is a covenant to lighten 
up a present dark age. 
—Stephanie Mills 
e 
A reason for doubting the assumption that mankind 
cannot change its ways is indicated by the current para- 
doxical combination of global unity and global diversity. 
The unity is readily apparent in instant mass-communica- 
tion media and the space voyages of astronauts and 
cosmonauts. 
Equally significant, however, although less 
obvious, is the unprecedented diversity in social philos- 
ophies and institutions. The variety in the Western world 
ranges from the United States to Sweden, in the Com- 
munist world from Yugoslavia to North Korea, and in the 
underdeveloped world from Bolivia to Tanzania. A 
significant new social mutation also appears to be 
emerging in China. 
In a shrinking world of such diversity, 
any creative achievement anywhere quickly becomes 
common knowledge. Sooner or later, enthusiastically, 
or grudgingly, it is studied and discussed and then 
imitated, adapted, or rejected. The net result is global 
interaction and cross-fertilization. The law of hybrid 
vigor operates in the cultural realm as well as the biological. 
ee ee eee eee eee 
see eee eee eee eseeseeeeeeee 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
wy 
Sometimes I wonder what Africans do with their 
time when they’re not getting massacred or getting 
their leaders changed. I mean, if you only hear 
about folks when they suffer disasters, death looks 
natural on them. 
RO 
And now, in memory of Pope Paul, who from a 
central location in the largest palace in the world 
bestowed on millions of Latin American women 
and children more birth and more death, who was 
the inspiration behind the successful movement to 
give black women back their coat hangers, who 
assured fag baiters that God is on their side, who 
was, within the limits of his changing time and his 
changing church, as anti-sex, anti-love and anti- 
life as he could possibly be, let us all spit three 
times toward Rome and vow that we will not let 
TV obituaries by Hallmark Cards make us forget 
who our real enemies are. 
ie) 
TT 
wr 
wrk, 
