Ski Camping 
Cross-country skiing takes many forms, with most of the 
publicity going to what /| call “slot-car skiing” on prepared 
trails. 
This enticing book is for you who crave to ski 
where you make the first tracks, and to stay out overnight 
as well. 
There are other books on this subject, but none 
so well done, so free of paramilitary macho, and so easily 
understood. A spare, positive text is backed by exception- 
ally good photographs. 
| find the recommendations to be 
right on the mark. Nordic skiing has been one of my 
favorite enterprises for 25 years, and this is the nicest 
introduction to that delight I’ve seen. 
—J. Baldwin 
a 
Ski Camping 
Ron Watters 
1979; 154 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
Chronicle Books 
870 Market Street 
Suite 915 
San Francisco, CA 94102 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
a 
Waxless ski bottoms: 
from top — 
fishscale, step, 
mica and radial step. 
Whether to use wax or waxless skis can produce a differ- 
ence of opinion among cross-country skiers. Most cross- 
country ski authorities now agree that a wax ski can 
outperform a waxless ski on a track. 
Little, however, has 
been said of the use of waxless skis in the back-country 
where minimizing the hassles that come with waxing skis 
can be a big advantage. 
\'ve always been a wax ski advocate myself. Recently, 
though, | was on a long ski trek, and encountered a 
variety of conditions from soft, deep powder, to transi- 
tional snow, to coarse, spring snow, to icy, avalanche 
rubble. One member of our party used a pair of fishscale 
skis. Many times | watched in amazement from the side 
of the trail with my waxes spread out while Sandy skied 
by. Her skis were more than adequate for the great 
variety of snow conditions we encountered. 
Waxless skis are criticized on the basis of glide which, 
while important for track skiing, is not as important for 
backcountry skiing. 
Carve a domed ceiling in the snow cave. 
Sherpa snowshoes 
Know what porcupines eat in the summer? Stored snow- 
shoes, that’s what. 
Unless they happen to be one of the 
newer designs such as these. 
In addition to being 
unpalatable to rodents, these snowshoes are unaffected 
by water and ice, they require no annual varnishing or 
other maintenance, and they don’t loosen as you plod 
down the trail. 
Their exceptionally light weight makes 
them easy to carry and also tends to prevent the dreaded 
“Mal d’ Raquette.’’ These people are not the only ones 
making modern snowshoes, but they have a very good 
reputation. 
Their products are a good example of modern 
materials and design making the old way seem a bit silly 
except as a nostalgic handcraft. 
/'ll concede that these are more energy-intensive to make, 
but on the other foot, they are less labor intensive to use. 
Where you draw that line may not be so obvious until 
you ‘ve spent some miles on the trail. After 20 miles, 
esthetics and philosophy seem to defer to functional 
elegance. As usual. 
They are not cheap. 
—J. Baldwin 
Sherpa Snowshoe 
Products 
Manufactured by: 
Sherpa Design 
Platteville, WI 53818 
$71 -$78 plus shipping 
from: 
R.E.1. Co-op (p. 426) 
or check your local 
ski supply store. 
Complete Cross-Country Skiing 
and Ski Touring 
Complete, no. An inviting introduction to cross-country 
equipment and technique, decidedly. 
If | were trying to 
get a friend interested in x -c, Id give this. 
“Take a look. 
If you‘re interested, we'll rent some skis next weekend 
and go where the snow is quiet.” 
—SB 
Complete Cross- 
Country Skiing 
and Ski Touring 
William J. Lederer 
and Joe Pete Wilson 
1970, 1975; 189 pp. 
$4.95 Postpaid from: 
W.W. Norton and Co. 
500 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10036 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
a 
Walking or shuffling the length of the track, the skier 
should swing his arms, holding the poles loosely by the 
straps in order to become conscious of how the left arm 
and right leg move together, and of how right arm and left 
leg move together. The skier should then go the length of 
the track, hopping forward instead of shuffling. When he 
hops off his left leg, he then also pushes back with his 
right pole. That's all there is to the basic diagonal stride. 
Cross-Country Downhill 
/f you think that cross-country skiing is restricted by the 
inability to go down steep hills on those skinny planks, 
then this will be news to you. With the techniques neatly 
explained in this book, you ‘ll be able to ski in country 
you wouldn‘t have approached before, and do it safely 
too. | can vouch for the moves shown here; they work 
well. 
The book is aimed at those who already know how 
to ski with reasonable skill, and that may be just as well 
because it isn’t a beginner sport. 
Still, just about anyone 
who can ski Nordic should be able to pick up the ability 
to do it. The photographs of each move are very clear 
rather than being showy. 
—J. Baldwin 
Cross-Country 
Downhill 
(And Other Nordic 
Mountain Skiing 
Techniques) 
Steve Barnett 
1978, 1979; 107 pp. 
2nd Edition 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
Pacific Search Press 
222 Dexter Avenue 
Seattle, WA 98109 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The Snowshoe Book 
Excellent guide to snowshoeing! Well illustrated with 
drawings by Grace A. Brigham. Pertinent info on 
snowshoe types and uses, bindings, extra equipment and 
technique, also sections on racing and games plus survival 
including first aid, avalanches and rescue. Something in 
here for everyone whether novice or expert. 
—Al Perrin 
The Snowshoe Book 
(A complete guide to how, 
why, when and where) 
William Osgood 
and Leslie Hurley 
1971, 1975; 162 pp. 
2nd Edition 
$5.95 postpaid from: 
The Stephen Greene Press 
P.O. Box 1000 
Brattleboro, VT 05301 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
These snowshoers take a difficult obstacle course with 
what looks like no effort at all. 
Cross Country Ski Gear 
A very complete analysis of boots, bindings, poles, 
clothes, wax, and other stuff you need to ski away from 
the madding crowd. 
| don’t know whether you need to 
know all this, but | found the book highly informative 
even though I ‘ve been watching this stuff since 
my Army 
ski troop years in the ‘60s. 
It’s especially good in helping 
you choose equipment. 
—J. Baldwin 
Cross Country 
Ski Gear 
Michael Brady 
1979; 211 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid from: 
The Mountaineers 
719-B Pike Street 
Seattle, WA 98101 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Twist or warp will cause a ski to yaw, that is, always turn 
or climb out of a track instead of running straight. 
Check for twist by holding a pair of skis together and 
sighting from tail to tip when the tails are held together. 
Bases should touch over their entire width at the shovel. 
If there is a v-shaped gap, one or both skis is twisted. Even 
if the skis meet as they should, both may be twisted. 
Check for this defect by reversing one ski, holding the 
pair with one tail against one tip, and resighting. 
Check for warp by squeezing the midpoints of the skis 
together. The waists should meet exactly. 
If there is an 
offset, one or both skis are warped. Even if the waists 
meet exactly, both skis may be warped, in opposite 
directions. Again, check for this defect by reversing one 
ski, holding the pair tail against tip (centering at both 
contact points, as tips and tails are seldom of equal 
width), and resqueezing the midpoints. 
Mid-ski mismate 
indicates warp. 
Sight along skis to check for twist. 
Movin’ On 
When somebody asks me what's a good book for learning 
about winter hiking and camping, this is the one / tell 
‘em about. 
—J. Baldwin 
Movin’ On 
(Equipment & Techniques 
for Winter Hikers) 
Harry Roberts 
1977; 135 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Stone Wall Press 
5 Byron Street 
Boston, MA 12108 
e. 
If there’s a ‘secret’ to pitching a tent on snow, it’s this — 
start with a firm platform. Truck around on your skis or 
your snowshoes, pack out the kitchen and the tent area and 
pack out a trail to the area you'll use as a latrine. Be meticu- 
lous; be thorough — which means, get to camp on time! 
Pack the kitchen first, so the cook can start to work, and 
then do the rest. The tent should be up and the bags out 
and fluffed at about just enough time before chow call to 
change into a dry undershirt and a heavy parka. 
e 
The cardinal rule of snowshoeing technique is to remem- 
ber to pick up the foot to be moved ahead over the edge 
of the stationary foot and to move this foot far enough 
ahead so it won't encumber the stationary foot... 
Likely somewhere along the way the beginner will take 
his first spill into the soft, deep snow and wonder how on 
earth he will ever get back on his feet again. Here the 
pole can be used as a vertical prop. 
. 
. If the snowshoes 
seem hopelessly snarled and the snow bottomless, the 
bindings can be unhitched, the snowshoes taken off and 
set in a good position to use as a platform to get back on 
your feet again. Don’t thrash around needlessly. We 
should all take a tip from oxen who lie quietly while 
their drivers arrange for them to get back on their feet, 
unlike horses who often get panic-stricken after a fall 
in the deep snow. 
