reeree 
eT 
UPd 
Pe 
PR 
ERECETUEEELEDL 
‘ 
OMAD IGS 
. 
» 
, 
‘ 
. 
+ 
ef ee 
“a 
Se a 
bate Js 
a 
ts 
én5 
ie 
MOUNTAINS /CAVES 
American Caves and Caving 
Creeping around underground isn’t everyone’s idea of 
fun, but it ranks with technical rock climbing and moun- 
taineering, and often utilizes similar techniques and 
attitudes. Aboveground, there really isn’t much left to 
explore for the first time, especially in the U.S.A. 
Under- 
ground, the opportunities for true exploration are there, 
With all the risks and possibilities of reward. 
This book is 
avery thorough presentation of methods and equipment 
as well as the expected yarns and war stories. 
Vertical 
caving is especially well shown. 
Beginners might be a bit 
put off by the author’s emphasis on emergencies (he’s an 
M.D.) but considering where cavers cave, a bit of caution 
is obviously in order. 
This book is already considered a classic and will likely 
remain so until the sport/art develops considerably more 
advanced techniques. 
—J. Baldwin 
American Caves 
and Caving 
William Halliday, M.D. 
1974; 360 pp. 
$12.95 postpaid from: 
Harper & Row 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
192-foot entrance drop 
in Stamps Pit Cave, 
Tennessee, showing 
vertical ribbing and other 
features of domepits. 
Harry White is shown as 
ascending by a standing 
rope technique. 
e 
If a rappel rope doesn’t reach the bottom, a knot at the 
end reduces the incidence of air or ropeless rappelling, 
a distinctly undesirable technique. 
The World of Caves 
Ever hear of Ogof Ffynnon Ddu? It’s a cave in Wales. 
I'd like to go there and check it out. 
I'd like to go to all 
the caves shown in this collection of the world’s most 
fascinating spelunking. 
The descriptions are direct from 
the author's experience, and are accompanied by big, 
inciting color photographs. 
The hardships involved are 
probably more than you or | will likely undertake. Some 
caves are accessible to the tourist, but most require train- 
ing and years of underground scrambling before a visit 
could be attempted. So much the better, then, that this 
fine volume is available at such a reasonable price. 
| 
stayed up all night wandering through its pages. 
—J. Baldwin 
The World of Caves 
A.C. Waltham 
1976; 128 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
G.P. Putnam and Sons 
Get this book 
back in print! 
A caver descends a thin 
wire ladder that disap- 
pears into the depths of 
Eldon Hole in the 
English Peak District. 
Mountaineering Medicine 
Medicine for Mountaineering 
One small, one large, both for serious no-doctor situa- 
tions. 
The small one carries easily and works in the field 
easily. 
The large one gives you an education and backs 
it up if you have it with you. Comparing Medicine for 
Mountaineering to Advanced First Aid for All Outdoors 
(p. 415), the mountaineering book is bigger, more author- 
itative, stodgier, less well illustrated, and harder to use in 
the field. One thing | learned from the mountaineering 
book is that if someone can’t breathe because of mangled 
face or a throat obstruction that the Heimlich maneuver 
(p. 324) won't remove, you can still save their life by 
poking a hole in their trachea. 
—SB 
Mountaineering 
Medicine for 
Medicine 
Mountaineering 
Fred Darvill, Jr., M.D. 
James A. Wilkerson, 
1966, 1980; 60 pp. 
M.D., Editor 
$2.15 postpaid from: 
1906, 1975; 367 pp. 
Skagit Mountain 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
Rescue Unit 
The Mountaineers 
P.O. Box 2 
719-B Pike Street 
Mt. Vernon, WA 98273 
Seattle, WA 98101 
Area of the chest to 
which pressure is applied 
during external 
~ 
cardiac massage. 
Incipient and/or first degree frostbite should be treated 
by warming the extremity against the warm skin of a 
companion (abdomen; armpit). More severe frostbite 
should not be treated until facilities for rapid rewarming 
are available. A climber may walk many miles on frozen 
feet, but once rewarming has been performed, he becomes 
a litter case. Rapid rewarming is achieved by immersing 
the cold damaged body parts in water at 104 - 108 
degrees F. (40 - 42 degrees C.) ; most authorities recom- 
mend the use of a thermometer, feeling the temperature 
must be exact. However, in a crisis, one can test the 
water temperature by immersion of anormal hand. The 
water should be comfortably warm but should not burn 
the test hand. Severe pain occurs shortly after rewarm- 
ing and therefore medication for pain relief should be 
available when rewarming is performed. Continue the 
soaking until flushing occurs in the tips of the fingers or 
toes, or for one hour, whichever is shorter. After the 
rewarming, the extremities should be handled gently to 
avoid further injury. Careful cleansing with a germicidal 
soap, padded sterile dressings, splinting, and observation 
for concomitant dehydration are indicated. 
Ideally, 
rewarming should be performed in a hospital where this 
equipment is available. 
If rewarming is done in the field, 
hospitalization must be effected as soon as possible. 
—Mountaineering Medicine 
e 
If only one rescuer is present he must give both cardiac 
massage and artificial respiration. The technique gener- 
ally recommended is to give fifteen compressions of the 
heart at a rate of approximately eighty per minute and 
then two quick breaths of artificial respiration. Repeti- 
tion of the cycle at this rate provides approximately 
sixty cardiac compressions a minute. 
—Medicine for Mountaineering 
Great Pacific Iron Works 
Almost everyone who goes into the mountains eventually 
develops an urge to try rock scrambling or climbing of 
some kind. It is therefore important to be aware of the best 
safety procedures and climbing aids available. Alpinists 
Yvon Chouinard and Tom Frost design and fabricate a 
high quality selection of modern climbing equipment. 
—Drew Langsner 
Great Pacific 
free from: 
Iron Works 
The Great Pacific 
Catalog 
lron Works 
P.O. Box 150 
Ventura, CA 93001 
Asolo-Chouinard Friction Shoe — We have been working 
with Asolo in Italy for three years on developing a climb- 
ing shoe that will friction and smear on granite and still 
be able to edge sharp limestone holds. The Chouinard 
Friction Shoe is the result. 
For smearing and friction 
climbing we made tne sole flexible fore and aft but not 
quite so much as a pure friction shoe so that some degree 
of comfort and stability is gained in heel and toe chim- 
neys and twisting toe jams. The sole is made of the same 
proven rubber used in EB’s. The rubber rand comes up 
high on the heel for protection and maximum friction on 
heel and toe jamming. 
The edging qualities come mainly from superb fit and 
from a thin plastic insole under the ball of the foot which 
creates a solid base for the rubber. 
A special last holds 
the foot tightly in place and does not allow it to roll 
inside the shoe when edging. 
Even though the sole profile 
is extremely narrow under the ball this superb last will 
accommodate very wide feet comfortably. 
In fact you 
can wear the same shoe for climbing 5.12 or walking back 
to camp. 
THe fit will last through the life of the shoe 
because non-stretch breathable canvas is used to back up 
the split leather uppers. 
The leather covers the entire 
shoe for maximum durability, and the shoe is resolable. 
Weight: 28 oz. $80. 
Sizes 3 - 13 incl. 2 sizes. 
by Bruce LeBel 
“Functional Quality.“ Never lose this perspective when 
considering backpacking/mountaineering equipment. 
| 
could end now with that general principle for considera- 
tion, but the information and detailing which have led 
to it (and sprung from it) are the tools really needed to 
make an efficient, effective, and safe trip into the wilder- 
ness of equipment purchases. 
/ have attempted as fair and informed a researching and 
description of the present state of value in these products 
as | could make. 
The result is a brief critical examination 
of most of the industry and its products. Included as 
considerations are: Materials; Construction; Features; 
Buying a Product; Company Reviews; Product Reviews. 
And it’s all about to be preceded by some non-specific 
thoughts about manufacturing these goods. 
A wide range of approaches and capabilities can be found 
within the outdoor equipment industry. 
It is as important 
to choose the quality of the company whose goods you 
purchase as it is to choose the product itself. One com- 
pany may be comprised of a wife and husband while 
another is a “wholly-owned subsidiary.“” Some are special 
specialists in alpine equipment, and others manufacture 
across such a wide spectrum of products that the special- 
ized requirements of the down bag and parka are 
neglected. 
The middle ground between non-industrial 
craft and craftless industry is where 99% of the finest 
value will be found, for the following reasons: 
1 
Economies of scale. /t is simply less expensive to make 
100 of something than it is to make one of the exact 
same thing. On the other hand it will never be possible 
to make more than a few items using limited resources 
such as down with a fill power of greater than “550.” 
2 
A complex of functions: 
forecasting, purchasing, 
scheduling, engineering, quality control, data processing, 
personnel. 
There is much more to these products than a 
designer and a sewing machine operator. When peak 
efficiency coincides with optimum quality, value in real 
terms resu/ts. 
3 
Collective experience: knowledge and training in 
marketing, manufacturing, and backpacking/mountain- 
eering throughout the organization is essential for an 
integral product. 
4 
Consistency: 
Wi// this item being considered for purchase 
have the same construction as the one preceding or the 
one following it out of production? 
5 
Reliability: Wi// the company stand behind its product? 
Will it even be around to do so? 
The purchase of a bag, parka, pack, or tent is an invest- 
ment requiring no small sum of money, yet it will provide 
exceptional benefits through use and should be built to 
last your lifetime. 
Value is not cheap. 
MATERIALS 
INSULATORS 
Goose Down 
The /ightest and most efficient insulator 
known, by reason of its complex structure of plumules 
and correspondingly large amount of surface area with 
which to trap air. Goose down’s compressability, resili- 
ence, organic softness, and excellent breathability have 
not been duplicated. 
“Fill power” is the often cited descriptor for quality of 
material used, and is certainly important, but is not the 
only variable characteristic. Another characteristic to 
compare is “recovery,” or the length of time the material 
requires to regain its total loft. 
This is an important 
aspect to consider as it relates directly to the longevity 
of the material and also because some “high fill power” 
downs have awful recovery. Also of importance is the 
feather content, as all downs have some percentage of 
feathers — usually between 5% and 20%. Perhaps the key 
indicator is the size or maturity of the down pods them- 
selves, the larger older geese (European) producing the 
finest down. 
