CON 
336 BRE 
iC 
A 
questioned it, he said, ‘We'll check the 
book later.” She said, ‘I think those are 
the wrong pills.” 
It happened that we 
hired this activities director to come and 
work at Bread and Roses, and after a 
couple of months she started telling us 
stories. We were dumbfounded at the 
things that she knew that weren't getting 
out and | was saying, “Why didn’t you do 
something?” 
All she could say was, “‘It 
was my job and I'm divorced and | have 
two kids to raise, and what was | supposed 
to do?” 
Brand: That's interesting, because one of 
Governor Brown's arguments about getting 
volunteers into these institutions is that 
they’Il find out things and say so on the 
outside. 
Farina: That's perfect. Unfortunately, 
with Bread and Roses we cannot, because 
of our tax-exempt status, do anything 
openly political. That’s why | want to 
take entertainers into those situations. 
Entertainers are creative, they're not 
stupid, and when they are confronted 
with that kind of thing, | think that 
they’re sensitive enough to have a feeling 
of response. 
Alexander: We did go to some hearings on 
convalescent hospitals and testified on the 
problems. A lot of things are not neces- 
sarily illegal, they’re just inhumane. They 
move people from room to room without 
telling them. They’ll come back after 
lunch and they’|I be in another room. 
It’s 
confusing having to be without your things 
when you’re older. 
O'Neill: And we're all gonna be there in 
30 years. 
Farina: | know some of the reasons why 
the convalescent homes are so bad. They 
are like restaurants; there are chains of 
convalescent homes. The owners exchange 
jobs, and the dirty dealings that they do 
can be hidden because they all cover for 
each other. 
Little things like when some- 
body dies, you can go on collecting their 
social security after they’ve died until it’s 
reported by the mortuary to the state. So 
they make deals with the mortuary, ‘‘We’ll 
bury this guy but don’t tell ‘em for two 
months and | can collect so-and-so many 
dollars, and you can have a percentage 
of that.”” A girl who worked in our office 
was fired from her old job because she 
refused to sign a number of social security 
checks. Someone on the staff has to sign 
the checks before they’re cashed. An 
operator of a home can get somebody to 
sign illegally, go cash their checks, keep 
them for himself, and never tell anybody. 
She said no, and he said, ‘‘Do you want 
to continue working here?”’ She went 
home, called several activities directors 
and friends of hers and said, ‘What should 
1do?” They all said, ‘“Look, you're good 
enough that you’!! be hired somewhere 
else if you get fired, you have a good 
reputation in the county, don’t sign the 
checks.”” So she went back and said, ‘‘I’m 
not gonna sign the checks,” and he said, 
“Okay, you're fired.’ So she called a 
friend who was working in the state Health 
Department, and within 24 hours they 
came and investigated. 
It was in Mill 
Valley, a place that we had complained 
about because they had been so rude at 
one of my performances. They closed 
the place down and had everyone shifted 
to other hospitals. Which is healthy in 
the sense that it hits the news and the 
public hears about it, but unhealthy in 
the sense that all those people are totally 
lost. In the middle of the day or night 
they're shifted, like from one concentration 
camp to the next. They miss all their 
friends, all the things that have surrounded 
them and they’re accustomed to. 
Alexander: And chances are they’re in 
another hospital which again is over- 
crowded. 
Farina: Gary Goodrow and | went toa 
home — he went to read poetry and | went 
to sing — and throughout the entire hour 
there was a voice and we never could 
figure out where it came from, of an old 
woman saying [sepu/chral gasp] ‘‘Nuurse! 
... 
Nuurse! .. .”” — which was very 
creepy, in and out of his poems and my 
& ROSES 
song. At the end of the hour we were 
leaving, sort of gliding out through the 
urine — it was not the cleanest place — and 
an aide was wheeling a lady to in front of 
the TV. She was a tiny little woman, so 
frail, skin that was almost transparent. 
She was just at the edge, she was like a 
little leaf, in fall, when the leaves are so 
crackly. And she, raising one arm — it 
was about all the strength she had — and 
she was saying, ‘| don’t wanna watch 
television. 
| don't wanna watch tele- 
vision.’ And the aide was saying, ‘‘It’s 
only 8:15, bedtime’s 8:30. You're gonna 
watch TV till 8:30." And he crammed 
her in front of the TV set. Gary just stood 
there and went UAUGGHH. At the end 
of our wonderful performance to hear 
that, that was the end of my day. All the 
way home in the car Gary kept saying, 
““Nuurse! ... Nuurse!. 
. ."’ 
Brand: Do you get some one-time perfor- 
mers that can’t hack it again? 
Alexander: | don't know if it’s that they 
can't hack it or that their performance 
wasn't quite appropriate or captivating 
enough or something like that. Usually 
if their performance is good they'll come 
back to do it again. 
Brand: What things go over best? 
Alexander: | would say comedy, and songs. 
Children’s songs for children, older people’s 
songs for them. Popular songs and also 
the artist’s own material. 
It’s special to 
hear somebody's creation, but it’s also 
special to hear something that you can 
sing along with, that’s familiar to you. 
Comedy goes over very well with groups 
that are alert. 
Farina: The mental patients relate so well 
to it because they see somebody in front 
of them acting out of his mind and they 
register, ‘‘If he can act that crazy on the 
outside and earn a living doing it, what am 
| doing in here? 
If | can laugh and relate 
to that, | must have something going for 
me.” At juvenile hall someone like Paul 
Krassner or people from the Committee 
go over beautifully. 
Alexander: Workshops work better than 
performances sometimes. The first one 
| remember, was for a music instructor at 
San Quentin. 
Farina: The first jam session was in the 
dining hall with Hoyt Axton, Verlin 
Sandals, Merle Saunders, and people from 
“Evolution of the Blues.” It was especially 
funny because Hoyt has rifles in his bus, 
and at the last minute my pacifist girlfriend 
Martine was seen carrying six rifles to hide 
in the trunk of her car at the Howard 
Johnson's so that we could get in. Never- 
theless the show went on very well. But 
it was rough because of the din and activity. 
Alexander: Also, we brought a lot of acts. 
They want you to please every group, so 
you have to bring something for the 
Samoans, and the Filipinos... 
Farina: Black, White, Chicano, Mafia. 
And some added. There’s at least four 
separate groups. 
Brand: No Chinese? 
Farina: | guess there’s no Chinese come- 
dians and no Chinese prisoners. The jam 
session was so incredible. We got Jules 
Broussard, and who else? 
Alexander: Nick Gravenites, Mark Naftalin, 
that bass player from Booker T. 
Farina: Just a handful of people who were 
in town. 
Alexander: And a drummer from Jesse 
Colin Young's group. Going in, the bass 
player was so nervous. 
He hadn’t had any 
dope for at least an hour. He was shaking, 
saying, ‘‘How long is this gonna be? Where 
are we going?”” Poor guy. 
Farina: This is a character who normally 
gets up on a stage 45 minutes late and he’s 
hot shit all the way. ‘Could | have some 
more lights please?’’ All of them, ‘‘When 
will we get out?” was the main question. 
That’s what is fascinating to me about 
taking rock ‘n’ rollers into San Quentin. 
At first it’s just, “Oh boy my name in San 
Quentin,” but all of a sudden it’s keys and 
The Flying Karamazov Brothers 
gates and locks and guards and guns and 
big rolls of barbed wire, and then they’re 
inside and really they’re panicked. And 
performers normally, particularly rock ‘n‘’ 
roll, are so used to performing with either 
alcohol or dope, either on stage or right 
available whenever necessary during the 
show. I’m not talking about the old 
jazzers who are professional musicians and 
who really have a completely different 
attitude, but the rock ‘n’ rollers who | 
personally resent because of their non- 
professional attitude. 
Alexander: They're used to playing to 
adoring teenagers. 
Farina: Yeah, and suddenly they’ve put 
themselves — which | think is courageous 
— in the position of being in front of 
another audience, who may or may not 
like them, they don't know. 
So here was a handful of people who didn’t 
know each other that well, had heard 
each other’s names, maybe some of them 
had jammed together, they walk in, we 
set up the sound, everything's getting 
plugged in, they‘re tuning up, and they‘re 
sort of saying, ‘Well, what’s gonna happen 
next?’’ And we're saying, ‘“‘Why don’t you 
just rehearse, go ahead and play a little 
bit.” They start to play and because of 
nervousness, they’re suddenly playing 
harmoniously together as if they’ve known 
each other all of their lives. They get 
going for about 10 minutes and then in 
walk about 60 inmates. 
Brand: So these guys were already cooking 
when... 
Farina and Alexander: They were 
COOKING! 
Farina: Oh boy, it was neat. They played 
for about an hour — incredible music. 
Then there was a break and we announced 
that inmates with instruments could get 
up and jam. There was one of the prettiest 
moments, and | regret not having it on 
tape. Jules Broussard sat in the middle 
with a horn player on each side of him, 
One was white and the other was black? 
Alexander: That's right. 
Farina: And they traded horn parts. Jules 
would be playing along, and he would turn 
to the guy on the right and they would 
play something together. They'd end that 
and then Jules would play a little more 
and turn to the guy on the left. And then 
in the end they all played together and 
Jules played two horns at the same time, 
which he can do. 
It was spectacular, and 
the inmates, who were really caught off 
guard, were listening without any self- 
consciousness by that time. 
It was beauti- 
ful to see their faces. 
I'll never forget one 
young white guy who'd been kinda bored 
with the whole affair but came nonetheless, 
and he didn’t know who Nick Gravenites 
was on sight, he only knew the name from 
records. 
He got up and he was playing 
Nick Gravinites jams with inmates 
along on a guitar, and somebody must 
have told him that he was playing Nick 
Gravenites’s guitar. He looked down and 
he looked around and he said in this loud 
voice, ‘This is Nick Gravenites‘s guitar?!“ 
But now that music instructor is gone, and 
the new one won't permit a large work- 
shop. And there’s a new warden who's 
much more stern. 
Brand: Staff turnover is greater than the 
Prison population turnover? 
Alexander: Definitely. 
Farina: With convalescent homes as well 
as everywhere else. They can’t stand it, 
so they keep switching around. 
It’s an 
ugly existence for them. 
Brand: How long have you guys been 
doing this now? 
Farina: Since ‘74. 
It’s frustrating. 
| was 
just thinking, in all these stories of good 
moments there are intertwined all these 
general complaints. And what's frustrat- 
ing for me is to know that Bread and 
Roses can only exist if we don’t open our 
mouths and complain. At the same time 
| am so uncomfortable. The more | find 
out, the more | realize that change has to 
take place, and somebody has to speak 
up. Somebody once said, “Well, if that’s 
your goal why don’t you take a bunch of 
businessmen in? They’re the people who 
have all the money and who run society.” 
And | said, ‘’You're absolutely right, but 
they are also the ones who lack imagina- 
tion. 
It’s the entertainers and sensitive 
artistic types who can come up with 
alternatives faster than businessmen who 
are out to gain a buck, not for anyone 
else’s benefit but to raise funds for their 
own life. | still have as a goal to get more 
“famous” people, but | do think that 
they are kept away from society, kept 
away from community life, family life, a 
kind of normal home life that most people 
have to deal with. Being on the road, in 
planes, in elevators, in hotel rooms, in 
back stages, you really are hidden, just 
the way an institutionalized person is 
hidden from society. Having watched one 
entertainer after another come out of an 
institution saying, ‘‘Boy, there but for 
fortune... ," | can’t help but think 
some of those creative minds will have 
to respond, maybe not now, maybe 
twenty years from now. 
Brand: Maybe we’re down to the why this 
thing began and how it looks four years 
later in terms of the aspirations. 
Farina: Well, I'm thinking it’s time we did 
some sort of seminar or conference — | 
don't know yet what to call it — that deals 
with the public, and people who work in 
institutions, and people who have been 
institutionalized. 
Have them all ina 
setting where they can talk to one 
another. 
Every single time | go to an 
institution | come away having found out 
RICHARD 
McCAFFREE 
