476 
COMMUNICATIONS 
HARPSICHORDS 
Early Keyboard 
Instrument Kits 
by Harold R. Langland 
E LIVE IN AN AGE OF NOISE 
and speed. Wherever we go, loud- 
speakers blast the three chord 
thumps of pop music at us, but the 
owner of a harpsichord can turn 
off the radios, close the windows, 
and ease into a gentler time. A 
harpsichord in the home is the 
center of musical evenings, alone, with a few recorders or 
violin, or just voices. 
It speaks of a time when there was 
more time, more quiet, more sensitivity to the small beauties. 
It is no wonder that harpsichord making has become big 
business in this country and abroad. A firm in Australia 
that makes harpsichords costing over $900 each is seven 
years behind schedule, such is the demand. 
In the U.S. 
there are over 100 full time harpsichord makers trying to 
keep amateurs and professionals supplied. 
But there are also several manufacturers of kits. An 
instrument in kit form suddenly becomes affordable by 
cutting the cost 2/3 or more. 
It also eliminates the usual 
long waiting time for a finished instrument, and it gives 
the builder an intimate knowledge of the workings of it, 
so it can be easily and well maintained. 
But perhaps the 
biggest plus is the pride in having built a genuine musical 
instrument yourself. 
It is not my aim here to attempt any kind of list of 
makers of finished instruments — that job has been 
tackled by Igor Kipnis, and will appear in his new book 
on harpsichord technique. Rather / will deal only with 
makers of kits. 
But first some explanation is necessary. 
There are many 
different kinds of keyboard instruments offered by kit 
makers. 
The main one is the harpsichord itself, which 
THE KIT MAKERS — U.S.A. 
Frank Hubbard Harpsichords, Inc., 185 A Lyman Street, 
Waltham, Massachusetts 02154 
Frank Hubbard is the grand old firm of harpsichord 
making. 
It was he who wrote the definitive book on the 
subject, Three Centuries of Harpsichord Making, and 
apprentices from his shops are many of the major makers 
today. His were the first kits to make a really professional 
instrument. 
You might find.kits as good as these days, 
but none better. 
Yet, surprisingly, they are not the most expensive. 
His 
big French Double, in the “cut to fit” form, is $2200. 
There are, of course, lots of options, but this kit, made 
carefully, will yield an instrument ready for a concert 
artist. Also in his line are French singles, a Flemish single 
for $1575, a lovely English Bentside Spinet, and a fine 
Fortepiano. 
Very highly recommended. 
Zuckermann Harpsichords Inc., 15 Williams Street, Box 
121, Stonington, Connecticut 06378 
If Frank Hubbard wrote the definitive book on old 
harpsichords, Wolfgang Zuckermann wrote the definitive 
book on new ones, The Modern Harpsichord. And, as 
far as | know, the first harpsichord kit ever produced 
was produced by him. 
It was a small, rather unhistorical 
job that went for just $150, which lots of people bought 
and which really spread the harpsichord bug. 
Today Zuckermann produces a line of nine different 
instruments, each very accurate historically and each 
stunningly beautiful. Naturally this firm knows how to 
make kits that fit and write instructions that instruct, so 
you won‘t go wrong with these. 
His big French Double is $2600, a bit more than Hubbard, 
but in this league one worries about more important 
things than money. 
The Zuckermann range also includes three kinds of Flemish 
harpsichords, a lovely Italian one, an Italian Virginal 
for $935 (that’s the one | covet), two types of clavichord, 
and a fortepiano. Also very highly recommended. 
B & G Instrument Workshop, 318 North 36th Street, 
Seattle, Washington 98103 
This West Coast outfit is making a serious run at the two 
big boys just mentioned. 
They produce historically accu- 
rate instruments in an even wider range than Zuckermann. 
And their prices are very good. 
Their big French Double 
goes for $2300, just above Hubbard and below Zucker- 
mann, but there is a big difference. B & G supply all their 
kits “in an advanced state of completion where all the 
woodworking has been done.” So these are really “case 
Hubbard harpsichord kit ‘‘cut to fit’’ 
comes in several types. 
Italian harpsichords are the 
smallest, with a bright, crisp tone, and always just one 
keyboard. Flemish instruments are more like the usual 
picture of a harpsichord and come with either one key- 
board (singles) or two (doubles). French style harpsi- 
chords, usually thought of as the epitome of the art, 
again come as either singles or doubles, with the “French 
Double” more or less the standard for serious concert and 
recording work. 
In addition one will find English and 
German harpsichords, which do not differ significantly 
enough to worry about here. 
Mention will also be made of spinets and virginals. 
These 
were smaller harpsichords of various shapes, but with the 
strings running either across or at an angle to save space. 
They are cheaper and simpler to build than a harpsichord, 
and, though less versatile, make a full bold sound. 
And then there are clavichords. 
|, actually, am a clavi- 
chord addict. 
These marvels “touch” 
the string instead of 
plucking it, giving a very soft sound but the most sensi- 
tive contro/ of any keyboard instrument. 
In 1768 Jacob 
Adlung said, “A good clavichord, well played, is sweeter 
and more heart-stirring than any other instrument.” 
But that “well played” is the catch, as their extreme 
Sensitivity shows up bad technique, and builds good 
technique like no other instrument. 
On top of al/ that, 
they are the cheapest to buy, easiest to build and main- 
tain. Some weigh only 20 Ibs. and can be tucked under 
the arm for toting around. 
When Mozart and his contemporaries sat down at what 
was then a rather new instrument, the piano, it was not at 
all like the great curving black creatures of today, able to 
balance a symphony 
orchestra at full throttle. 
Mozart’s 
piano, which we now call a “‘Fortepiano” to distinguish it 
from modern ones, was of all wood construction with two 
assembled” kits, and compare with a price of $2490 for 
the same thing from Hubbard. 
Their range of instruments also includes a Flemish single, 
English double, a pedal harpsichord (to be placed under a 
regular one), an Italian, two sorts of English spinets, two 
sizes of clavichord, and a fortepiano. 
In addition they produce a line of parts, such as keyboards, 
jacks, jack guides etc., if you want to build an instrument 
without a kit. 
Burton Harpsichords, 4921 North 57th Street, Box 80222, 
Lincoln, Nebraska 68501 
This is an old reliable firm who make kits of less historic- 
ally imitative instruments, designed to be lower in cost, 
and more suitable for the home. 
Their big double, for 
example, is only $1575. 
In addition they make a single in 
three different stringings, a small spinet (basic kit only 
$315), and aclavichord. 
They have a Jot of experience 
and produce a well thought out and buildable kit. They 
also claim to ship the same day the order is received. 
Carl Fudge, Harpsichord Maker, 208 Ridge Street, Win- 
chester, Massachusetts 01890 
He makes only two kits at present, both for clavichords — 
a small one at $495 and a large one at $850. But he is 
the clavichord king, having spent more time specializing 
in this instrument than most other makers. He does, 
though, make a wide variety of custom built harpsichords, 
and he is planning to bring out yet another clavichord 
kit and a Flemish virginal kit. 
Very fine workmanship. 
The Williams Workshop, 1229 Olancha Drive, Los 
Angeles, California 90065 
S.R. Williams has been in the kit business a long time and 
specializes in not overly historic, but certainly affordable, 
kits for the person who will use the instrument primarily 
in the home. He does not have a kit for a double, but has 
a small Flemish single in basic form for only $345! Case 
Complete is $895. He also offers a triangular spinet, 
Italian Virginal, and small clavichord ($290). 1 would not 
recommend these for professional musicians, but they 
could be excellent as a first instrument. 
ENGLAND 
John Storrs, Hunston, Chichester, Sussex PO2ZO6NR, England. 
He is the major kit maker in England. Though | haven't 
seen his instruments personally, they appear to be we// 
researched and carefully done. His big double (Flemish, 
in this case) is about $2450, depending on the current 
rate of exchange. 
This instrument comes in a variety of 
Finished 
Hubbard Harpsichord 
light strings (not 3 heavy ones) per note, and a very 
simple, but lightning-fast action. 
The tone was softer, 
and different, more like woodwinds. Wonderful kits for 
fortepianos are now being made. Imagine having a grand 
piano in your living room, and saying, “I made that.” 
Better yet, imagine dashing off some quicksilver Haydn 
runs on it. 
Kits come in a variety of states of completion. The cheap- 
est form, requiring the most work, is the “basic kit.” 
This is just the guts of the instrument — the keyboards, 
Jacks, jack guide, strings, curved parts, etc. 
You buy the 
lumber for the case and plane and cut and join it yourself. 
/f you‘re good at woodworking and have a shop full of 
tools, you might try it; otherwise you’d do well to buy 
amore complete kit. For example, some makers make a 
“dimensioned” 
kit, where the lumber is included, cut 
roughly to size, and you cut the joints. Better still, and 
the most common form, is the “cut to fit’ kit, where you 
get everything you need and just start right in gluing it 
all together. 
If even that scares you, you can usually buy 
a “case assembled” kit, where it arrives all glued together 
looking like an instrument, and you do all the fiddly 
bits of the action, string it, apply the finish, and brag. 
To make some sense of all the variations in price, | wil! 
quote only “cut to fit” kits, and will generally just quote 
for a French Double, but will also indicate other instru- 
ments available from each maker. 
If you are sincerely 
interested in an instrument, write to the different makers 
and get their brochures, compare, and see all the options 
they offer, because there are plenty. 
But do me and them 
a favor — don’t write off to all these makers and get them 
to mail you their expensive brochures just for your own 
amusement. 
I’m sure youll understand. 
finishes, and the price is for the fancy one. He also makes 
a Flemish single, an English Bentside spinet, a Triangular 
Spinet which will fit virtually any dwelling, and a clavichord. 
But he has a delightful bonus. He offers courses in build- 
ing his kits. 
Taking only 10 people at a time, he works 
The Italian Virginal 
The Italian Virginal Kit....0.........-. $ 935 
The Assembled Italian Virginal Kit, ready for 
Painting and installation of action ......... 
1,535 
The Italian Virginal, with action installed, 
regulated and voiced, ready for painting. ..... 
The Finished Italian Virginal ............ 
2,520 
Zuckermann Italian Virginal 
The Italian Virginal. 
Length 64 in. (162.5 cm); width 
17% in. (44 cm); depth of case 72 in. (19 cm). 
Disposi- 
tion 1 x 8’, no buff. 
54 notes, GG/BB-e"’. 
B@xwood 
naturals, stained wood sharps. Sixty to one hundred 
twenty hours. 
mA 
Carl Fudge 
Small Clavichord Kit 
Small Clavichord Kit 
Complete kit, ready for assembly. ......... 
$ 495 
Partially assembled it-s: 
2.0% 
0 'ateca, Sia ein xa alte 
575 
Arcades for key fronts (rosewood) ......... 
30 
Eeisting oan 
Petec get acre to a 
dalgst toe, ee hele 
20 
Printed paper for inside of rim ........... 
By 
Canvas carrying COVEN. 
256)5 Outs bess ote eae 
75 
Canvas carrying cover with extra padding ...... 
90 
Instrument custom-built, natural finish ...... 
1,900 
Instrument custom-built, painted finish ..... . 2,100 
United Parcel Service shipping charges: 
Northeast $12, South and Midwest $15, West $20. 
