| ieee 
atl 
LL 
LLL 
LE 
OE 
CO: 
aT 
CE 
Et 
A 
Continuing Buddhism 
by Rick Fields 
¢ 
HAT WE CALL BUDDHISM BEGAN 
with Siddhartha Gautama, a human 
being, prince of the realm, born in north- 
ern India around 500 B.D. Siddhartha 
had it all, as we might say today, 
prowess in arms, sages as tutors, dancing 
girls, a loving wife and son, a palace for 
every season — everything, but not quite 
enough. 
That “not quite” was like 
a shadow, a sliver of curiosity, that led 
him to look beyond the palace walls. 
He found three things: 
aman hobbling along on a cane, 
aman lying in misery by the roadside, 
a man being 
carried to the burning grounds: old age, sickness, and 
death. And a fourth: a wandering sadhu, without caste, 
walking calmly down the road into the forest. 
So he left the palace. 
The situation in Northern India 
at that time was not unlike our own during the last two 
decades. 
The forests and the marketplace were filled 
with seekers, teachers, and methods. 
Gautama mastered 
all the philosophies, attained the highest trances, and 
practiced austerities until his flesh shrank on his bones. 
Then he realized the body was not the enemy, he bathed 
and ate, and he sat beneath a tree on a mat of grass, legs 
folded, eyes half open, back straight, mindful of 
his breathing. 
That sitting — not going anywhere but where you are — 
has formed the foundation of Buddhism ever since. 
In 
a sense, one might say that Buddhism is the path the 
Buddha cleared by sitting still. 
It is a path as up-to-date 
as the human mind, and the practice of it, though taken 
in the company of teacher and sangha (community), is 
always one’s own. No one can eat, sleep, or breathe 
for you. 
While there is no lack of Buddhist books, Buddhism 
has not been kept alive by referring to sacred texts. 
Instead, it has been practiced and transmitted from 
teacher to student. 
The survival of each school, or 
lineage, depends not on belief but on a kind of appren- 
ticeship. Having to test and communicate your insight 
— or contusion for that matter — with another human 
being, whether master, guru, roshi, elder brother, or 
spiritual friend, can be difficult at times, but it also brings 
the whole journey down to Earth. 
(As the Buddha, when 
he finally won liberation, called the Earth to witness.) 
It has taken about twenty-five hundred years for Buddhism 
to reach America. 
Thoreau, who translated and pub- 
lished possibly the first mahayana sutra in America (from 
the French, in The Dial, 1854), and who “realized what 
the Orientals mean by contemplation” 
as he sat in his 
sunny doorway one morning at Walden, is as good a place 
to start as any. D.T. Suzuki, the first patriarch of 
American Zen took an editing and translating job in 
LaSalle, Illinois in 1897, and there have been Zen 
Buddhists of some sort here ever since. In the sixties for- 
mal Zen practice became generally available, and in the 
seventies Americans trained in the forest monasteries of 
Southeast Asia returned home, while Tibetan exiles, 
having crossed the Himalayas on foot, arrived by jet. 
Now that Buddhism has taken root here — a process 
characterized by Zen pioneer Sokei-an as “holding the 
Jotus to the rock’ — those who have managed to survive 
their first enthusiasm are busy tending the new growth. 
The ground has been broken, and we are now in a period 
of cultivation and settlement. Buddhist groups have 
reinhabited abandoned seminaries, old age homes, state 
mental hospitals, and resorts — to give just a few examples. 
It is dangerous to generalize, but safe to say that some- 
thing we can call American Buddhism is hammering out 
its own shape: an emphasis on community in place of 
monastery, householder in place of monk, and hopefully 
all with a healthy sense of humor. But whatever the 
shape taken, the shining well-worn gold of the Buddha’s 
teaching remains the same: the four noble truths — the 
fact of suffering, its origin, cessation, and the path 
through — and the sitting which puts it all into practice, 
again and again. 
a 
What follows is a selection of Buddhist training and prac- 
tice centers in the U.S. (The books mentioned are best 
ordered from the centers, by the way.) Unlisted are the 
countless informal sitting groups, often unaffiliated, that 
have sprung up like mushrooms in the most unlikely 
places in recent years. 
The listings are organized into 
Theravadin, Mahayana, Vajrayana, the three traditional 
sub-divisions of Buddhist development. 
The Theravadin 
school is the earliest and is based on the Pali Canon; it 
now survives chiefly in Burma, Thailand, and Ceylon. 
Mahayana, a later development, based on the idea of the 
Bodhisattva, who postpones entry into Nirvana in order 
to work with others, is found in China, Japan, Korea, 
and Vietnam. 
Vajrayana, or Tantric Buddhism, developed 
in northern India. 
It was practiced in Tibet, Mongolia 
and Sikkim. 
THERAVADIN CENTERS 
Insight Meditation Society, Pleasant Street, Barre, MA 
01005. The central clearing house for vipassana (insight) 
meditation practice. IMS is a cooperative. Silence and 
a daily sitting schedule are maintained at al/ times. 
Retreats vary from one week to three months. 
Teachers 
include Joseph Goldstein, Jack Kornfield, Sharon Sal- 
berg, Ruth Denison. 
“The meditation practice is simple 
and direct: the systematic examination of the mind-body 
process through calm and focused awareness.” 
Books: The Experience of Insight by Joseph Goldstein 
(1976; $4.95 postpaid) and Living Buddhist Masters by 
Jack Kornfield (1977; $6.95 postpaid), both from Unity 
Press, P.O. Box 1037, Santa Cruz, CA 95061. 
Washington Vihara, 5017 16th Street, N.W., Washington, 
DC 20011. A Theravadin center under the direction of 
the Ven, D. Piyananda Mahathera, and Gunaratna Maha- 
thera — both bhikkus (monks) from Ceylon. Sattipatana 
(mindfulness) meditation is taught and practiced. A 
service is held every Sunday, occasional retreats. 
Publication: The Washington Buddhist, $3/year 
(4 issues). 
MAHAYANA CENTERS 
Zen Center of San Francisco, 300 Page Street, San Fran- 
cisco, CA 94102. A Soto Zen center founded by Shunryu 
Suzuki Roshi; his successor is Richard Baker Roshi. Zen 
Center includes Tassajara Zen Mountain Center, and 
Green Gulch Farm. Daily sittings at Page Street are 
open to the public. 
Publication: Wind Bell, $4/year (occasional publication). 
Book: Zen Mind, Beginners Mind, by Shunryu Suzuki 
Roshi (1970; $3.50). The classic of American Zen. 
“When you do something, you should burn yourself 
completely, like a good bonfire, leaving no trace of 
yourself.” (Also reviewed on p. 585.) 
Genjo-Ji, 6367 Sonoma Mountain Road, Santa Rosa, 
CA 95404. A /ay Zen community under the direction of 
Jakusho Kwong, Sensei, who studied closely with Shunryu 
Suzuki Roshi for eleven years. 
There is 
asummer guest 
season, but guests are also welcome to visit at other times 
of the year. 
Minnesota Zen Meditation Center, 3343 East Calhoun 
Parkway, Minneapolis, MN 55408. A zen community 
under the direction of Katigiri Roshi, who assisted Suzuki 
Roshi at San Francisco Zen Center and Tassajara. 
Bodhi, P.O. Box 638, Los Altos, CA 94022 and Spring 
Mountain Sangha, 11525 Mid Mountain Road, Potter 
Valley, CA 95469. Bodhi comprises Zen practice com- 
munities in Los Altos and Santa Cruz. Spring Mountain 
is a rural Zen community, and family practice place. 
“People may practice as guest or resident. 
The residents 
work both on the farm to maintain it and in the city 
to maintain themselves.’ Under the direction of 
Kobun Chino, Sensei, who helped establish Tassajara 
with Suzuki Roshi. 
Zen Mission Society, Shasta Abbey, P.O. Box 478, Mt. 
Shasta, CA 96067. A seminary and training monastery 
for the Reformed Soto Zen priesthood, which also offers 
a comprehensive lay program. 
Under the direction of 
Jiyu-Kennet Roshi, Abbess, an English woman who 
studied Ch’an (Zen) in Malaysia, received Dharma 
Transmission from the Chief Abbott of Sojiji Temple 
in Japan. 
‘ 
Publication: The Journal of Shasta Abbey, $12/year 
(6 issues). 
Book: Zen Is Eternal Life, formerly published as 
Selling Water By The River (1976; $10.95 postpaid). 
—From The Crystal Mirror 
New York Zen Center, 440 West End Avenue, New 
York, NY 10024. Reverend Kando Nakajima, a Soto Zen 
priest, who has studied also in Ceylon. 
“Anyone wishing 
to sit regularly, listen to a lecture from a Zen priest, or 
come to sesshin once a month, may attend.” 
Publication: Zen Life. 
Zen Studies Society, 223 East 67th Street, New York, 
NY 10024. Fido Shimano Roshi, a Rinzai Zen master, 
founder and teacher. 
International Dai Bosatsu Zendo 
in the New York Catskill Mountains is a country monas- 
tery, run in the traditional Japanese manner. 
Publication: Dharma Seasons, quarterly. 
Book: Golden Wind, by Edo Shimano Roshi (1979; 
$6.95 postpaid). 
Rinzai-ji, Cimmaron Zen Center, 2505 South Cimmaron 
Street, Los Angeles, CA 90018. Rinzai Zen master 
Joshu Sasaki Roshi has adapted koan practice to Ameri- 
can students. 
He is in Los Angeles for alternating three- 
month periods; the rest of the time he travels, giving 
sesshins — intensive meditation sessions — throughout 
North America. Affiliates include Mount Baldy, in 
California, where students can attend a three month 
winter retreat, Redondo Beach, California, Zen Center, 
Vancouver, and Jemez Bodhi Mandala, a rural Zen 
community in New Mexico. 
The Zen Center, 7 Arnold Park, Rochester, NY 14607. 
Roshi Philip Kapleau trained in Japan for thirteen years. 
His teacher, Yasutani Roshi, taught an “integral” Zen 
grounded in both Rinzai and Soto. 
There are about 
twenty-five affiliate groups in different parts of 
the country. 
Publication: Zen Bow, subscription free. 
Books: Kap/eau Roshi is the author of the classic 
Three Pillars of Zen (1967, 1980; $5.95 postpaid), 
which gives Yasutani Roshi’s introductory talks on zazen, 
interviews with students during sesshin, and first-hand 
accounts of kensho, or satori. A new, revised edition has 
been published by Anchor/Doubleday. 
Kapleau Roshi 
is also the author of Zen Dawn In the West (1979; $10.95 
also from Doubleday). 
Zen Center of Los Angeles, 905 South Normandie Avenue, 
Los Angeles, CA 90006. An urban Zen community under 
the direction of Taizan Maezumi Roshi, a master in both 
Soto and Rinzai Zen. Four ninety-day training periods a 
year. 
The Institute for Transcultural Studies offers classes 
in Buddhist studies and related subjects. Affiliates include 
Black Mountain Zendo in San Diego, California. 
Publication: The Ten Directions, a quarterly newspaper. 
Book: The Hazy Moon of Enlightenment, by Taizen 
Maezumi Roshi and Bernard Tetsugen Glassman (1978; 
$4.95 postpaid). 
Zen Community of New York, P.O. Box 286 Riverdale 
Station, Riverdale, NY 10471. Bernard Tetsugen 
Glassman, Sensei, Dharma Successor of Taizen Maezumi 
Roshi, has established ZCNY 
as a work, study and medi- 
tation community for Zen practice. 
Book: Hazy Moon of Enlightenment (see above). 
Diamond Sangha Centers, Koko An Zendo, 2119 
Kaloa Way, Honolulu, H! 96822. 
Maui Zendo, R.R. 1, Box 220, Haiku, HI 96708. 
Intensive practice periods at both centers. 
Under the 
direction of Robert Aitken Roshi, a master in the Sanbo 
Kyodan school of Zen Buddhism founded by Yasutani 
Roshi. 
The present Abbot of this school, Yamada Koun 
Roshi, visits Diamond Sangha occasionally. Aitken Roshi 
holds sesshin for Catholics once a year at Tacoma, WA. 
Contact Larry Ray-Keil, 331 17th Ave. East, Seattle, 
WA 98112. 
