or en 
rr 
I 
et 
teen 
r 
4 
‘ 
/ 
The Pesticide Conspiracy 
You plant a crop, you know it must be bug-free or it 
will ultimately be rejected by the food processor. 
This is 
not because the bugs are dangerous, but rather because 
federal cosmetic Jaws on produce require ridiculously low 
bug counts and because consumers have been taught to be 
squeamish about the little multi-legged creatures. 
The 
answer is to spray and over-spray for insurance. 
The result is that you kill off the good bugs that eat the 
bad bugs; then the fittest bad bugs survive the spray and 
become pesticide-resistant. 
The bug problem gets worse, 
spray dosage increases, becomes economically unfeasible, 
and a new improved product is introduced to repeat 
the cycle. 
Who wins? The companies that make and sell pesticides. 
Who loses? The farmer who spends more per acre, the 
farm and factory workers who suffer from pesticide poi- 
soning (sterility, nerve disorders, cancer), and the con- 
sumers who buy contaminated food and thus jeopardize 
their health. 
A walk through the field of biological contro! in agricul- 
ture, guided by an insect-loving University of California 
professor, whose experiences with the pesticide mafia 
have metamorphosed him into an eco-radical. 
—Ruthanne Cecil 
The Pesticide 
Conspiracy 
(An alarming look at 
pest control and the 
people who keep us 
““hooked”’ on 
deadly chemicals) 
Robert van den Bosch 
1978; 224 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Doubleday and Company 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Perhaps the greatest absurdity in contemporary pest 
control is the dominant role of the pesticide salesman, 
who simultaneously acts as diagnostician, therapist, 
nostrum prescriber, and pill peddler. 
It is difficult to 
imagine a situation in which society entrusts so great a 
responsibility to such poorly qualified persons. Pesticides 
rank with the most dangerous and ecologically disruptive 
materials known to science, yet under the prevailing 
system these biocides are scattered like dust in the envi- 
ronment by persons often utterly unqualified to prescribe 
and supervise their use. 
Pest-contro! advisement should be a high-grade tech- 
nology conducted by thoroughly qualified technicians. 
Instead it is overwhelmingly in the hands of skilled 
merchandise hucksters employed by the agri-chemical 
industry. 
Little wonder that contemporary pest control 
is characterized by economic, ecological, and social chaos. 
e 
Thirty years ago, at the outset of the synthetic-insecti- 
cide era, when the nation used roughly 50 million pounds 
of insecticides, the insects destroyed about 7 per cent of 
our preharvest crops; today, under a 600-million-pound 
insecticide load, we are losing 13 per cent of our prehar- 
vest yield to the rampaging insects. 
In other words, a 
major “‘reward” of our eleven-fold increase in insecticide 
use has been a doubling of the bug problem. 
40 
Treated with monocrotophos 
Aug.Aug.Sept. 
Sept. 
Sept-Sept.Oct. 
23> SG 
13 
20 
27 
i Untreated plots 
w Oo 
Bollworms 
per 
300 
bolls 
N oO 
a oO 
Second 
treatment 
Third 
treatment 
“ Target-pest resurgence following applications of a 
“control” insecticide. 
In this experiment, plots treated 
with monocrotophos, an insecticide federally registered 
for boliworm control, suffered heavier infestations 
than untreated plots. Note particularly the strong boll- 
worm resurgence following the initial treatment. 
Simul- 
taneous samplings of predators revealed that the insecti- 
cide destroyed boliworm predators and thus permitted 
resurgence of the pest. 
Pest-control costs in approximately one thousand acres 
of apple in Washington prior to and following adoption 
wL of an integrated control program for spider mites. 
Standard spray program 
3 
Integrated control program 
Thousands 
of 
dollars 
886 
8 
8 
The small capillary tube hanging from the center of this 
insect trap releases a controlled amount of a sex attract- 
ant blend which permeates the orchard and confuses 
the males so they cannot find females for mating. 
The Least Is Best Pesticide Strategy 
This book is not essential to any gardener who knows 
when to go out and pick the horn-worms off the toma- 
toes. But as the scale increases, so do the pest problems, 
especially with mono-cultures. 
/ntegrated pest manage- 
ment is the best available solution; and Goldstein’s book 
is a useful layman’s survey of the state of the art, and not 
a how-to manual. One great feature is 26 pages of access 
to 41 U.S. and Canadian institutions that offer college- 
level instruction in IPM and related fields. 1PM means 
being able to think through a pest problem to a solution, 
instead of running for the spray gun. People with those 
skills are going to be in demand. 
—Richard Nilsen 
The Least Is Best 
Pesticide Strategy 
(A Guide for Putting 
Integrated Pest Manage- 
ment into Action) 
Jerome Goldstein, Editor 
1978; 205 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
The J.G. Press, Inc. 
Box 351 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
In the 30 years following World War II, the number of 
pounds of pesticide used has increased by more than ten- 
fold. But in that same period, losses to pests remained 
about the same — about one-third of all crops in the field. 
Of the 25 most serious agricultural insect pests in Cali- 
fornia, nearly 75 percent are resistant to one or more 
insecticides — and 95 percent are either insecticide- 
aggravated or insecticide-induced pests. 
8 
For pesticide makers — though sales figures are ever- 
increasing, pressures from EPA regulations, the costs and 
red tape of obtaining official clearance for marketing new 
pesticides, the problems with pollution controls and 
worker safety at the manufacturing site all add up to 
major headaches for pesticide manufacturers. The costs 
of developing a new pesticide are in the range of $15 
to $20 million. 
The IPM Practitioner 
This newsletter is an excellent way to stay on top of a 
fast-moving and technical field. |ntegrated pest manage- 
ment is the closest thing on the horizon to a cure for the 
agricultural addiction to synthetic pesticides. IPM isa 
highly sophisticated management strategy — a systemic 
approach — to controlling pest damage. 
/t includes 
biological control (e.g., introduction of natural enemies 
of a pest), crop rotation, cultural control, but also, and 
only when absolutely necessary, the use of synthetic 
pesticides. 
The trick is to look at_all the factors that 
relate to any pest problem, and not just to spray 
every two weeks because it says so on the can 
of pesticide. 
The |PM Practitioner contains news briefs, access to pro- 
ducts and services, abstracts of current technical articles, 
book reviews, and a calendar of events. 
_—Richard Nilsen 
The IPM Practitioner 
$10 /year (12 issues) 
(The Newsletter of 
from: 
Integrated Pest 
Bio-Integral Resource 
Management) 
Center 
» 
Joanna Graham, Editor 
P.O. Box 7242 
Berkeley, CA 94707 
e 
BTI, a new strain of Baci//us thuringiensis with a high 
degree of lethal activity against mosquito larvae, shows 
excellent potential as a biological control agent in mos- 
quito control programs. Named Bacillus thuringiensis var. 
israelensis (BT|) after the location where it was discov- 
ered, the pathogen, like other strains of B.t., acts initially 
and perhaps primarily as a stomach poison, damaging cells 
of the midgut epithelium of infected mosquito larvae, 
according to recent studies. 
e 
Chickens were used successfully as biological controls 
against grasshoppers in the Siskiyou National Forest in 
Oregon, where forest officials, rather than applying insecti- 
cide against an unusually large hatch of grasshoppers, 
fenced in a five-acre area containing valuable tree seed- 
lings, and stocked it with 175 chickens. At the start of 
the project, 200 to 600 grasshoppers per square yard 
were counted, but within a short time, the chickens had 
so reduced the grasshopper population that chicken feed 
had to be purchased. 
e 
For the Home Gardener 
Wheast, a high-protein by-product of the cheese industry, 
commonly used to feed honeybees during the winter, can 
be used to sustain beneficial insects in home greenhouses. 
Lacewings and ladybeetles, both general predators, have 
been used to control a variety of pests such as aphids and 
mealybuys on greenhouse plants. Once such beneficial 
insects have been introduced, their populations can be 
successfully maintained by screening all openings to the 
outside and setting out wheast feeding stations to carry 
over the predators when pest populations are low. Wheast 
can be obtained from: CRS Food Service and Supply 
Company, 6043 Hudson Road, St. Paul, MN 55119 (ask 
for CRS formula No. 57) or Rincon Vitova Insectaries, 
Inc., Box 45, Oak View, CA 93022. A picture and 
description of the simple construction of such a feeding 
station (built to exclude ants) can be found on p. 411 of 
The Integral Urban House (1979), Sierra Club Books, 
530 Bush, San Francisco, CA 94108. 
Sources of beneficial insects 
for biological control 
Biological control is applied ecology. 
The term normally 
applies to the control of insect pests through the manipu- 
lation of their natural enemies — predators, parasites or 
diseases. 
Raising these beneficial insects (natural enemies) 
is often a tricky business in the lab, but mass-rearing 
millions of them, and shipping them all over the country, 
and making a profit at it is even harder. Not many 
companies have succeeded. 
The best at it is Rincon-Vitova Insectaries. Beneficial 
insects are tiny livestock — they have to be fed and watered 
and kept at the right temperature and humidity or they 
don’t make it. Rincon-Vitova has pioneered many of the 
techniques and offers more insects to contro! more 
—Richard Nilsen 
different pests, than anyone else. 
Rincon-Vitova 
Insectaries, Inc. 
P.O. Box 95 
Oak View, CA 93022 
Bio-Control Co. 
13451 Highway 174 
P.O. Box 247 
Cedar Ridge, CA 95924 
Ladybug beetles, praying 
mantis eggs, and lacewings. 
Gothard, Inc. 
P.O. Box 370 
Canutillo, TX 79835 
Specializes in 
trichogramma wasps. 
Mincemoyer’s Nursery 
R.D. 5, Box 379 
New Prospect Road 
Jackson, NJ 08527 
Mantis egg cases, both 
native and Chinese. 
Praying Mantis from Mincemoyer. 
Trichogramma wasp 
from Gothard. 
Fountain’s Sierra 
Bug Company 
P.O. Box 114 
Rough and Ready, 
CA 95975 
Ladybugs only. They 
ship from early March 
to late September. 
Pests in the city 
Urban pests include rats, roaches, mosquitoes, fleas, flies, 
yellow jackets and termites. 
/f you think you have a 
problem, but don’t want to hire the man to come and 
spray poison around where you live, write these folks 
with your questions. 
They can probably help. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Technical Assistance 
John Muir Institute 
Center for Urban 
P.O. Box 7162 
Integrated Pest 
Berkeley, CA 94707 
Management 
