Capitalism and Material Life 
The book is divided into sections, rice, corn, beer, furni- 
ture, alcohol, iron and many many others. 
| found that / 
paid close attention to Braudel; most history books make 
my mind wander. He turns the usual history upside 
down, details and more details of everyday life but 
perhaps no mention of the King. All his discussions are 
filled with quotes from first hand. On horses and urban 
transport in eighteenth century Paris — 
At the end of the century two thousand seedy cabs plied 
for trade in the town; they were drawn by broken horses 
and driven by foul-mouthed coachmen who had to pay 
out twenty sous a day for ‘the right to drive on the 
| 
highway’. Congestion was notorious and we have many 
ry 
descriptions of it. ‘When the cabs are empty,’ said a 
: 
Parisian, ‘they are fairly docile; around midday they are 
| 
more difficult, in the evening they are unmanageable.’ 
: 
And they were unobtainable at rush hours, for example at 
dinner time (for such it was) around two o'clock in the 
afternoon. ‘You open the door of the cab, someone 
else does the same on the other side; he gets in, you get 
in. It is then necessary to go to the commissioner of 
police for him to decide who shall have it.’ At such times 
a gilded carriage might be seen blocked by a cab crawling 
slowly along in front of it, at a slow and measured pace, 
‘all broken down, covered with burnt leather and with 
planks in place of glass.’ 
There are no chapters of theories concerning why 
this or 
that happened. 
Instead piece by piece you hear about 
furniture in China and Europe, alcohol in France, England 
and America. 
The details pour out of the book.- Braudel 
has theories but they are stated succinctly and | felt that 
he would rather use a page to give you the essence of an 
age than any explanations of it. 
Europe therefore neither discovered America and Africa, 
nor desecrated the mysterious continents. The nineteenth- 
century explorers of central Africa, so greatly admired 
in the past, travelled on the backs of the Black bearers. 
Their great mistake, Europe’s mistake at that juncture, 
‘was to think they were discovering a sort of New World.’ 
Similarly the discoverers of the South-American conti- 
5, 
nent, even the bandejrantes paulistas who set off from 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
CIVILIZATION 
37 
Capitalism and Material 
Life, 1400 - 1800 
Fernand Braudel 
1967; 445 pp. 
$5.50 postpaid from: 
Harper Colophon Books 
Harper & Row 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 10022 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
the town of Sao Paulo, founded in 1554, for all their 
wonderful epics, merely rediscovered the old tracks and 
rivers, with canoes used by the Indians, during the six- 
teenth, seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. And they 
were generally guided by the Mamelucos (Portuguese 
and Indian halfbreeds). 
The same adventure was repeated, to the profit of the 
French, from the Great Lakes to the Mississippi in the 
seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, thanks to Canadian 
halfbreeds, the bois bru/es as they were called. Europeans 
very often rediscovered the world with the eyes, legs and 
brains of others. 
One of the nicest qualities of the book is that it can be 
opened anywhere and read for 20 minutes. Braudel has 
enough respect for life and the past to be immensely 
puzzled by it — so he never imposes some kind of false 
structure that you have to pay attention to. 
—Steve Baer 
Budget of a mason’s family (5 people) 
in Berlin about 1800 
in percentage of income 
clothing etc. 
rent 
14-4 
animal 
44.9 
Products 
14-5 
other vegetable products 
food 
72:7 
The belt of hoe-cultures. 
Note the unusual 
depth of the zone across the American continent 
An 
and the islands of the Pacific. 
Technics and Civilization 
/ first read this book in 1957 then again in 1963 and then 
part of it in 1969. 
: 
Here is the first paragraph of the book. 
During the last thousand years the material basis and the 
cultural forms of Western Civilization have been pro- 
foundly modified by the development of the machine. 
How did this come about? Where did it take place? 
What were the chief motives that encouraged this radical 
transformation of the environment and the routine of 
life: what were the ends in view: what were the means 
and methods: what unexpected values have arisen in the 
Process? These are some of the questions that the present 
study seeks to answer. 
Lewis Mumford is an unusual man. He is not an engineer 
or a scientist, he isn’t an historian or sociologist, you can’t 
identify him as a business man or a literary man or an 
academic. He seems beyond all those roles. 
This made 
him especially attractive to me when | was 19 because 
his style smelled of the place | wanted to go. He is pro- 
found, poetic, knowledgeable. He takes care of the large 
and small things in his books. 
Technics and Civilization /s a good book to start with; if 
you like it, there are many others of his to turn to, Myth 
of the Machine, Arts and Technics, The City in History, 
Transformation of Man, The Pentagon of Power, etc. 
How | have used him: all through my twenties | used 
him as my guide. 
—Steve Baer 
Mechanization Takes Command 
The swan song of complex and ingenious handicraft. 
The 
history of the door lock, the stove, the butcher’s tools, 
agricultural plows and white bread. Watch the human 
hand shrivel and the machine take command. 
Finally, 
/ could understand how floor mats turned to spring 
mattresses. A comprehensive look at what European 
and American humans believe is necessary for comfort. 
—Peter Warshall 
Mechanization 
Takes Command 
(A Contribution to 
Anonymous History) 
Siegfried Giedion 
1948; 743 pp. 
$7.45 postpaid from: 
W.W. Norton & Co., Inc. 
500 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10036 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Streamlined Casing for Vacuum Cleaner, U.S. Patent 
Design, 1943. 
‘| have invented a new, original and 
ornamental Design for a Suction Cleaner Casing or the 
like.’ U.S. Patent Design 135,974. 
Technics and Civilization 
Lewis Mumford 
1934, 1963; 495 pp. 
$4.75 postpaid from: 
Harcourt, Brace & 
Jovanovich, Inc. 
757 Third Avenue 
New York, NY 10017 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
and had no natural enemies there, they grew as rapidly 
and gigantically as the Canada thistle when it made its 
way onto the South American pampas. 
But at no point — 
and this is the important thing to remember — did the 
machine represent a complete break. So far from being 
unprepared for in human history, the modern machine 
age cannot be understood except in terms of a very long 
and diverse preparation. The notion that a handful of 
British inventors suddenly made the wheels hum in the 
eighteenth century is too crude even to dish up as a fairy 
tale to children. 
The printing press was a powerful agent for producing 
uniformity in language and so, by degrees, in thought. 
Standardization, mass-production, and capitalistic enter- 
Prise came in with the printing press; and not without 
e 
irony, the oldest known representation of the press, 
shown here, appeared in a Dance of Death printed at 
Lyons in 1499. 
Most of the important inventions and discoveries that 
served as the nucleus for further mechanical development, 
did not arise, as Spengler would have it, out of some 
mystical inner drive of the Faustian soul: they were 
wind-blown seeds from other cultures. After the tenth 
century in Western Europe the ground was, as | have 
shown, well plowed and harrowed and dragged, ready to 
receive these seeds; and while the plants themselves were 
growing, the cultivators of art and science were busy 
keeping the soil friable. Taking root in medieval culture, 
in a different climate and soil, these seeds of the machine 
sprouted and took on new forms: perhaps, precisely 
because they had not originated in Western Europe 
In the popular sense, ‘streamline’ is used interchangeably 
with the word ‘modern.’ 
From the start, it was understood that the phrase was not 
to be taken literally. Today the layman, unfamiliar with 
aerodynamics, calls almost everything ‘streamlined’ when 
he really means ‘graceful lines.’ We have ‘streamline’ 
radio cabinets, toasters, cigarette lighters, and even gaso- 
line with ‘streamline’ action. The development of the 
science of aerodynamics and its application to airships 
and airplanes has created in the public a sense for fleeting 
lines, and these lines, being recognized by designers as 
a decorative element, have been emphasized to give the 
impression of speed. The automobile manufacturer, to 
give the sales appeal of a visual impression of the speed 
that the engineer has built into his machine, has used and 
is using ‘streamlining’ extensively. 
#0 
© 6) 01s) © .0%e) 0/9; 016) 0i.ay 0 <é oe Le) © 
0) 6) e's) we Sane 
chee 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
we 
I once burned off my eyelashes watching some 
toast toast on acid, Evelyn said when we were 
exchanging tales of the sixties. 
RA 
Another tale of the sixties: Dick and Jane believed 
in open marriage. Jane started sleeping with 
Dick’s best friend, an artist. When Dick found out 
he was very upset, he said, because it wasn’t good 
for Jane to get involved with someone who wasn’t 
political, it would hurt her political development. 
(That one from Susan.) 
Biatitielit 
Cle 
Web 
ee 
ewe 
se 
Seco 
eee 
eC 
wo 
C Cea 
ee 
