Brain/Mind Bulletin 
Easily the handiest way to stay current with news and 
gossip on the soft psychology frontier. Despite success 
and a burgeoning of the subject matter, editor Marilyn 
Ferguson has admirably kept the bulletin’s format to a 
terse, packed four pages. 
—SB 
A false sense of self-control induced by bogus biofeed- 
back reduced symptoms of cardiovascular disease in a 
recent experiment. 
The clinical implications are straightforward, the 
researchers said. As few as three 10-minute sessions of 
bogus pulse-rate biofeedback can retard or reverse percep- 
tions that one has little control over the body. 
Gary Stern and his co-workers at the University of 
Colorado said that the illusion of slowing the pulse rate 
contributed to a sense of well-being. 
e 
Washoe, the chimpanzee that learned American sign 
language, had good reason to use it recently. She bit 
off the middle finger, right hand, of Stanford neuro- 
scientist Karl Pribram — then made the sign for 
“Sorry, sorry, sorry.” 
Helplessness 
This may be an important book. 
It offers a place to look 
for the problem when that hideous vague sense that 
“something’s wrong” begins to grow. “Wrong” may very 
likely be that someone feels helpless, and the more they 
feel that way, the more they act that way, etc. on down. 
Positive feedback. 
Through experiments and anecdotes, 
Seligman shows how helplessness is learned, how it can be 
unlearned and even prevented. Not much gimmickry here. 
The book is about situations and their improvement. 
(See psychological self-care, pp. 327 - 329.) 
—SB 
When the babysitter arrived for the first time, | introduced 
the babysitter to Amy; then when they were engrossed in 
playing, my wife and | sneaked off. Our fading away, we 
hoped, would avoid the traumatic separation, with Amy 
Wailing and protesting, that we knew would otherwise 
occur, 
It certainly seemed like the path of least resist- 
ance, and it is a course many parents take. 
After we did this several times, we noticed Amy’s increased 
anxiety. Kerry then objected to our strategy: ‘’The safety- 
signal theory has definite predictions about sneaking off.” 
“How so?” | asked. 
“When we leave Amy with no clear warning signal, that’s 
just like unpredictable shock,” she said. ““Amy is begin- 
ning to spend a lot of time in anxiety about separation, 
since she has learned that there is no predictor of leaving 
and therefore no predictor of our staying around. 
If, on 
the other hand, we go through an elaborate and explicit 
departure ritual, then Amy will learn that if the ritual 
hasn‘t occurred she doesn‘t have to worry.” 
This made a great deal of sense to me, so the next time, we 
told Amy at length that we were going out for a few hours, 
took her and the babysitter out to the car, waved bye-bye, 
exchanged hugs and kisses, and let them watch the car drive 
away. Amy understood enough of what we were doing to 
scream and protest, but we did go, and have followed this 
ritual ever since. Soon thereafter, Amy went back to being 
placid. Incidentally, Amy at age five is a calm child, who 
does not seem at all worried about her parents leaving her. 
The reader may ask where our e.perimental control is. 
Actually, since we now have another child of appropriate 
age, we could provide a ‘sneak off’ control. 
But since the 
procedure appeared to work so well, | don’t think we will. 
Advanced Techniques of 
Hypnosis and Therapy 
Gradually the sciences of the human mind are achieving 
levels of abstraction and rigor appropriate to the 
discussion of mental processes. But Milton Erickson has 
been ahead of the field in this respect for forty years. 
This big book is a collection of his papers with some com- 
mentary by Jay Haley, and it is a most extraordinary 
collection. 
Erickson’s method, whether of therapy or 
research, is the precise use of hypnosis. 
Under this 
investigation, the human mind turns out to be as precise 
in its evolutions and timing as a minuet. 
—Gregory Bateson 
Advanced Techniques 
of Hypnosis 
and Therapy 
(Selected Papers of 
Milton H. Erickson, M.D.) 
Jay Haley, Editor 
1967; 557 pp. 
$48.25 postpaid from: 
Grune and Stratton, Inc. 
Harcourt Brace and 
Jovanovich 
757 Third Avenue 
New York, NY 10003 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Brain/Mind Bulletin 
Marilyn Ferguson, Editor 
$1 5/year (17 issues) 
from: 
Interface Press 
P.O. Box 42211 
Los Angeles, CA 90042 
AOE 
IE 
LT 
3 
Hal 
i) 
5 
Helplessness 
(On Depression, 
Development, and Death) 
Martin E.P. Seligman 
1975; 250 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
PSYCHOLOGY 
The Psychology of Consciousness 
The idea of right-brain left-brain difference, whether it’s 
a datum or a metaphor, is the dominant notion in experi- 
mental and theoretical psychology these days. 
This book 
of Robert Ornstein’s, enjoyable as it is, is the one that 
reported the research and set loose the interpretations. 
e 
—SB 
If the left hemisphere is specialized for analysis, the right 
hemisphere (again, remember, connected to the left 
side of the body) seems specialized for holistic mentation. 
Its language ability is quite limited. This hemisphere 
is primarily responsible for our orientation in space, 
artistic endeavor, crafts, body image, recognition of 
faces. 
It processes information more diffusely than 
does the left hemisphere, and its responsibilities demand 
a ready integration of many inputs at once. 
If the left 
hemisphere can be termed predominantly analytic and 
sequential in its operation, then the right hemisphere 
is more holistic and relational, and more simultaneous 
in its mode of operation. 
LEARNING 
The Psychology 
of Consciousness 
Robert E. Ornstein 
1972; 247 pp. 
$2.50 postpaid from: 
Penguin Books 
299 Murray Hill Parkway 
East Rutherford, 
NJ 07073 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Self Hypnotism 
Self Hypnosis 
One of the things that intrigues me most about hypnotism 
is that no one knows how it works — which accounts for 
some of its disrepute. No common factors, for example, 
have been found to pre-distinguish susceptibles from non- 
susceptibles. 
Black box business. 
LeCron doesn’t talk about any of this. He’s concerned 
with how you can detect and desuggest old imprinted 
hang-ups and suggest in new ones you like better. 
(One 
subject suggested herself larger breasts, and got them.) 
Sparks’ book focusses less on use and more on technique. 
They supplement each other nicely. 
Possibly the most general use of these books is their 
clear delineation of a simple avenue 
in — a meditative 
technique without much dogma. 
There are a /ot of hyp- 
nosis books; these are the best we've seen for home uses. 
Once when | was sky diving, 
a man jumping with me 
had a spiral fracture of his leg in mid-air (the parachute 
wrapped around his leg before opening) and then had to 
land on it. When | got to him he was green with agony 
and fully conscious with a long haul to the hospital 
ahead, and | taught him self-hypnosis for anesthesia on 
the spot. Needy as he was, it took effect immediately. 
—SB 
Self Hypnosis 
(A Conditioned-Reponse 
Technique) 
Laurance Sparks 
1962; 254 pp. 
$4.50 postpaid from: 
W.H. Freeman 
and Company 
660 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Self Hypnotism 
(The Technique and 
Its Use in Daily Living) 
Leslie M. LeCron 
1964; 208 pp. 
The Esalen Catalog 
Though you can’t get a seminar at the Esalen Institute 
hot springs on the California Big Sur coast through the 
mail, you can get their catalog, survey the offerings 
along several dimensions of humanistic psychology, and 
go to Big Sur for one hell of a weekend. Since 1962 
Esalen has been the stage where new acts and new actors 
try out for the Human Potential big time. 
—SB 
The Esalen Catalog 
$4 /year (3 issues plus 
other mailings) from: 
Esalen Institute 
Big Sur, CA 93920 
e 
Weekend of June 20 - 22 
The American Way of Birth and Death 
Jessica Mitford, Bob Treuhaft, Suzanne Arms 
and Don Creevy 
Jessica Mitford and Bob Treuhaft wrote The American 
Way of Death in 1963, giving us our first sustained look 
at what they called the funeral industry's ‘‘grotesque 
cloud-cuckooland where the trappings of Gracious Living 
are transformed, as in a nightmare, into the trappings 
of Gracious Dying."’ 
In 1975, Suzanne Arms wrote 
Immaculate Deception, an exposé of the ‘‘machine age 
of birth” based on invasive medical procedures and 
technological assumptions which “treat normal birth 
as a risky, dangerous, painful, and abnormal process in 
which pregnant women have no other choice than to 
submit graciously.’ Both of these best-sellers challenge 
the myth of expertise that has grown up around birth 
and dying. 
In cataloging the abuses of the funeral and 
hospital birth industries, both books have helped inspire 
alternatives to the control these monopolies have over 
dying and being born in America. The home birth move- 
ment, the proliferation of midwives, the development 
of community homes for birth and dying, and the 
regulation of the funeral industry, are among a number 
of reforms which figure prominently in the current 
revisioning of the American way(s) of birth and death. 
Author and long-time political activist Jessica Mitford 
and her husband Bob Treuhaft (appointed by Governor 
Jerry Brown to chair California’s State Board of Funeral 
Directors) will join with Suzanne Arms and Don Creevy 
(co-founders of The Birth Place, a community birth home 
in Menlo Park), for a wide-ranging discussion of these 
and related issues. $170 
Wilshire Book Company 
12015 Sherman Bivd. 
North Hollywood, 
CA 91605 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
$1 95 postpaid from: 
New American Library 
P.O. Box 120 
120 Woodbine 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621 
e 
After she achieved a self-induced trance, | explained 
to her that she would see a movie that she had seen 
years ago, that it would be very clear and vivid and that 
she would see it upon a signal of snapping my fingers. 
| made a mistake, which had to do with the realization 
that | had neglected to give her certain instructions, and 
inadvertently snapped my fingers before explaining 
to her about the second signal. Imagine my surprise when 
she immediately woke up! | felt rather provoked with 
myself until | noticed her amazed expression, and she 
said, ‘‘Why, that’s the most interesting thing that ever 
happened to me!” 
“What happened?”’ | asked, not knowing quite 
what to expect. 
“| just saw Gone With the Wind,” she replied, laughing. 
“How much of it did you see?”’ 
“| saw the whole thing from beginning to end. 
even better than | remembered.” 
It was 
While | was still trying to figure out what had happened, 
she was telling me at great length about the picture. 
| 
found it hard to believe that she had really seen the whole 
picture, or even a small part of it, in such a short instant 
of time. But she convinced me by describing every detail 
of the opening scenes and dialogue, and continuing with 
vivid word-for-word reproduction as if she had just come 
from the theatre. 
Better, in fact, than if she had. 
It was 
clear that she had experienced imagery of the most 
vivid kind imaginable of a two-and-one-half hour picture 
in the time it took to snap my fingers — not between 
two signals; just during one snap! 
—Self Hypnosis 
a) ae) ee 
ah ee) Sete) se) ele e610 
8 
eee 
We. we) ow ce, 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
continued from last spread 
Things about tidelands: 
- But the mud flats are what they are not because of 
> the first sculptors but because of the dozens 
* since — people who would not call themselves 
; artists but who can’t resist a free zone and free 
* wood and can-you-top-this anonymous compe- 
> tition and an expressway full of audience 
f 
* right next door. 
& 
. 
continued on next spread 
