Robotics Age 
Robots are creeping into the world so stea/thily that most 
people still aren’t aware how many 
exist (thousands) or 
how intriguing they can be, particularly for the home- 
brew tinkerer with access to both a machine shop and a 
microcomputer. 
There’s a lot to tinker with — artificial 
intelligence, simulated senses, and the mechanical chal- 
lenge of building an arm that will move only as far as 
you want it to and no further. By our stereotyped sci- 
fi standards robots are simple-minded but still potentially 
useful — both to large corporations and small workshops 
with repetitive or dangerous jobs. (Auto companies are 
beginning to use $20,000 industrial robots to weld cars 
— they look /ike giant hairdryers, move with the jerky 
grace of the old “Lost in Space” robot, and work ina 
cloud of shooting sparks. Models made by independents 
are less threatening and more interesting.) 
The books weve seen on robots and robotics are out-of- 
date or fluff; but Robotics Age is current 
and solid. 
/t’s 
for people who make their own. 
Even in its reports on 
heavy industry it pays attention to the low-budget 
applications of high- 
budget ideas. 
To a casual 
observer, the possibilities 
and implications of this 
technology are, well, 
riveting. 
—Art Kleiner 
Robotics Age 
Hugh Bartel, Editor 
$8.50 /year (4 issues) 
from: 
Robotics Age 
P.O. Box 801 
La Canada, CA 91011 
System Incoherence 
by Marc Le Brun 
Computer systems are environments, or, if you prefer, 
ecologies. They have a past and a future, functional 
niches, finite resources and many other properties asso- 
ciated with complicated systems which occur in nature. 
Yet, few installations take this fact into account as a 
general policy. Asa 
result the systems are subject to the 
same sorts of degeneration caused by neglect (or out-and- 
out rapacity) as their more organic counterparts. 
A typical (and costly) result of this is that it takes at least 
as much effort to instantiate a process on the system as it 
did to produce the original solution design in the first 
place. I am not referring to the usual tooling costs incurred 
in any engineering venture, but the unnecessary aggrava- 
tion caused by attempting to use a polluted resource. 
Ultimately, I suppose, the blame for this lies with con- 
ventional attitudes towards the world around us, but in 
the short range I believe it is because system “health” 
is never budgeted for, which in turn is because it is not 
perceived as a “real” property of the system, even though 
it can account for tremendous losses in time and efficiency. 
Installations are in general enslaved to the past and irre- 
sponsible of the future. An all too common scenario goes 
like this: (1) Project A writes some software, completely 
with self-use in mind. The software is not “clean,” but 
was only intended to “do the job,” and has various 
strange and peculiar side-effects, which however, are of 
no concern to Project A. (2) After a while Project B 
develops a need for some similar software and to “‘cut 
costs” uses Project A’s. The side-effects, while incon- 
University publications lists 
Much of the most far-ahead computer science work is 
done at a few universities. 
To find out what’s going on 
without becoming a student (which may be inconvenient, 
difficult, boring, or unnecessary), you can read the 
reports published by their computer centers. Separating 
the wheat from chaff when you order may be a problem, 
but the paper titles are explicit and the listings are some- 
times annotated. 
The two best schools to write to are 
MIT and Stanford. 
—Art Kleiner 
[Suggested by Marc Le Brun] 
Stanford Department 
of Computer Science 
MIT Laboratory for 
Computer Science 
Technical Report List 
Bibliography 
and Technical Memo- 
randa List 
free from: 
; 
[7 
tment o 
free from: 
ne 
Computer Science 
Publications Office 
Stanford University 
Stanford, CA 94305 
Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology 
Laboratory for 
Computer Science 
545 Technology Square 
Cambridge, MA 02139 
DAN 
O'NEILL 
The MiniMover 5 tabletop arm is a unique instrument 
that attaches as a manipulative device to an inexpensive 
personal computer. 
It enables individuals or groups — 
such as schools and technical-interest clubs — to acquire 
“hands-on” experience with computer controlled 
automation, artificial intelligence, and robotics. The 
MiniMover 5 may be used for such applications as: 
1) computer games, in which the arm moves game pieces 
on command: 2) computerized construction, in which 
building components may be arranged into a wide variety 
of configurations or mathematically programmed designs; 
3) computer assembly, simulating automated factories 
of the future; 4) computer art, using graphic instruments 
such as paint brushes, felt tip pens, etc. directly. 
Further information on the MiniMover 5 can be obtained 
from Microbot, 1259 El Camino Real, Ste 200, Menlo 
Park, CA 94025. 
e 
Mr. Taft told Robotics Age that Milton Bradley is 
currently spending over $600,000 per year for research 
on robot- and computer-related products. (This is roughly 
comparable to the entire NASA robotics research 
budget — ed.) 
All this should be important news to Robotics Age 
readers. As the toy industry, already past masters at 
producing inexpensive mechanisms, discovers the vast 
potentials of robotics, we can expect to see an increasing 
array of cheap, practical devices suitable for computer 
interfacing, providing an attractive alternative to 
time-consuming hand-built iterms and expensive com- 
mercial equipment. 
One final note — Mr. Taft tells us that Milton Bradley 
licenses the designs of about half of the devices it uses 
in its toys from outside sources, so you may want to 
send them that unique new sensor you've built! 
venient, are easily managed. (3) ProjectsC, D,E... 
follow suit and soon the software has become The Soft- 
ware. 
(4) Finally, Project Z comes along. Project Z is 
fantastic, worthwhile, very useful and promises great 
things for the future except for one thing: the side-effects 
from The Software are pure poison to it — and the system 
has developed its first allergy. On older and larger systems 
every new project is like “Project Z,” there’s always some 
major or minor implementation conflict. 
I once did some low-key work on a system that had to 
meet some “crash priorities” and was under tremendous 
pressure to justify its continued existence. The main 
systems group began to modify key portions of the soft- 
ware to expedite their job and help meet deadlines. 
Less than vital projects had to fend for themselves as 
various parts of the system ceased to function reliably. 
Eventually of course,they painted themselves into a 
corner, since their own software began to fail, and the 
system had poisoned itself with the metabolic by- 
products of its own too-rapid growth. 
I believe that this kind of nonsense may be greatly 
reduced by a little planning at the start, and in particular, 
budgeting for the maintenance of system health. Systems 
do get old and cranky and die of course, but a lifetime of 
“sickness” is another thing entirely. 
= 
TAP 
This ten-year-old newsletter for telecommunications 
junkies is still the best source of information on the 
hidden byways of the telephone and other communica- 
tions networks. 
It’s expanded its focus since the old 
make-phone-calls-for-free days; now it covers computers, 
telex, cable TV, and the postal system. 
Use it at your 
own risk; most of it is written under pen names. 
But 
that doesn’t make it any less fascinating to read. 
—Art Kleiner 
TAP 
$5 /10 issues from: 
TAP 
Room 603 
147 West 42nd Street 
New York, NY 10036 
Cybernetics for the Modern Mind 
Computers grew out of information theory and cyber- 
netics, grew so fast the origins (and fundamentals) some- 
how got left behind. 
“History” around computers 
means last year. 
| will bet that’s a shallowness error, 
that deeper experimentation and sounder future sense 
would come from a thorough grounding in the pre-micro 
basics and exciting origin story of this particular 
Captain Marvel. 
A British color-graphic 
candy box, this book 
does nicely as a compleat 
guide for the compleat 
idiot. 
(Genius is made of 
routinely asking idiot 
questions; genius has no 
shame whatever.) 
—SB 
Cybernetics for the 
Modern Mind 
Walter R. Fuchs 
1968, 1971; 357 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
Macmillan 
Publishing Company 
Get this book 
back in print! 
The first codification 
attempt of the little 
fairy-tale king turned out 
to be ambiguous. 
Raising 
his right hand three times 
in succession could be 
interpreted as ‘‘three 
times roast,” or “‘roast”’ 
followed by ‘‘cake,”” 
or “‘cake”’ followed 
by “roast.” 
I] Cybernetic Frontiers 
Computer people usually hate anything journalistic that’s 
written about them. One measure of this book’s value is 
that they still remember it with affection. 
The book 
opens two worlds to the casually interested — the world 
of hard-core computer hackers (explored in 1972 but 
still true to life) and the world of Gregory Bateson’s 
cybernetic thought (explored in 1973 but agelessly 
informative). 
The book was written by Stewart Brand, 
who’s my boss, but | liked it before | started working 
here. Bargain priced. 
—Art Kleiner 
Il Cybernetic 
Frontiers 
Stewart Brand 
1974; 95 pp. 
$2 postpaid from: 
The CoEvolution 
Quarterly 
P.O. Box 428 
Sausalito, CA 94966 
Legends abound from early ARPA days, full of freedom 
and weirdness. 
Here’s one of many from Project MAC 
(Multiple Access Computer) days. Alan Kay: ‘They had 
a thing on the PDP-1 called ‘The Unknown Glitch: 
[“Glitch’’ — a kink, a less-than-fatal but irritating 
fuck-up]. They used to program the thing either in direct 
machine code, direct octal, or in DDT. 
In the early days 
it was a paper-tape machine. 
It was painful to assemble 
stuff, so they never listed out the programs. The pro- 
grams and stuff just lived in there, just raw seething octal 
code. And one of the guys wrote a program called ‘The 
Unknown Glitch,’ which at random intervals would wake 
up, print out | AM THE UNKNOWN GLITCH. CATCH 
ME IF YOU CAN, and then it would relocate itself some- 
where else in core memory, set a clock interrupt, and go 
back to sleep. There was no way to find it.” 
| 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
* Probably it turns out that having a miracle 
- happen to you is 
just like having anything else 
: happen — might be great, might be awful, might 
- be OK but ill timed, but there it is — it happened 
: and you have to cope with it, 
COMMUNICATIONS 
COMPUTER AGE 537 
