Spiritual Midwifery 
The most accessible and thorough of the home birthing 
books, based on experience with hundreds of births by 
now. 
There’s quite a lot of the spiritual trip of Stephen 
Gaskin’s Farm (see p: 315), which may 
delight you or 
may not. 
It doesn’t affect the practicality of the book 
and does make it more entertaining. 
» —SB 
Spiritual Midwifery 
Ina May Gaskin 
1978; 480 pp. 
$10 postpaid from: 
The Book 
Publishing Company 
156 Drakes Lane 
Summertown, TN 38483 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
While the mother is pushing, have her keep her knees 
open wide, so that the baby will have plenty of room to 
move down. Have the mother keep her bottom firmly 
placed on the bed, especially during crowning rushes, as 
this will keep her muscles more relaxed than if she’s 
lifting her bottom up. 
Emergency Childbirth 
Say you and your partner are going to have a baby. 
You ‘ve done /ots of reading, gone to the classes, fee/ 
reasonably sure of yourselves. What if for some reason 
you can’t get to the hospital or the doctor can’t get to 
you when the baby decides to come? Suddenly you 
realize that al/ that reading has just flown out of your 
memory. 
Emergency Childbirth js exactly the book 
to have on hand. 
It’s clear, concise, and covers nearly every situation — 
normal delivery, abnormal presentations, injury or illness 
of the mother, premature delivery, etc. 
Cautions are 
given where called for, and the few illustrations are simple 
and easy to read. One of the best features of the book is 
the index of emergency instructions at the back — each 
condition and what to do for it is outlined in a sentence 
or two, with page references for the complete instructions. 
—Evelyn Eldridge-Diaz 
Emergency Childbirth 
; 
Gregory J. White, M.D. 
1958, 1973; 62 pp. 
$4.75 postpaid from: 
Police Training 
Foundation 
3412 Ruby Street 
Franklin Park, |1L 60131 
Textbook for Midwives 
— 
From England, where midwifery is widely practiced and 
legal, this is an encyclopedia on birth. Long sections on 
anatomy 
and physiology, pregnancy, abnormalities of 
pregnancy, normal labor, abnormal labor, the puerperium 
(post-partum), the newborn baby. Full of pictures and 
diagrams and highly technical (medical) terminology. 
It’s meant as a textbook to teach midwives their jobs; 
it can teach anyone who’s interested in the process, and 
is a must for those involved in home deliveries. 
It’s 
especially strong on the knowledge necessary to deliver 
in remote areas, and unequivocal about when to seek 
medical/hospital help. 
—Diana Barich 
[Suggested by Annie Hines] 
e 
Perhaps the most important thing for the lay assistant to 
know is that labor and the delivery of a child are normal 
functions which nature always tends to complete success- 
fully. Statistics show a loss of less than one mother in a 
thousand, less than four babies in a hundred — and these 
statistics are for all deliveries in large hospitals and there- 
fore include mothers who have been ill for years and 
premature babies too tiny to live. An attendant without 
medical training called upon suddenly to assist at a birth 
should have results at least as good as those of the 
hospitals because he is usually dealing with the least 
complicated cases. Mothers who have been ill for some 
time are ordinarily hospitalized. Women with prolonged 
or obstructed labors do get to the hospital in time. The 
women who deliver in taxicabs, ambulances, and police 
squad cars are usually those with short labors, and these 
are nearly always easy, normal deliveries. Since the 
babies in these circumstances are not suffering from the 
effects of anesthetics or pain-relieving drugs given to the 
mother, they rarely require resuscitation. 
e 
When delivery becomes imminent in automobile, ambu- 
lance, or police car, the person most important to the 
safety of the mother and child is the driver. Nature 
unaided will usually conduct a successful delivery; but 
all her efforts may be canceled and the mother and baby 
lost if the driver goes too fast or too recklessly and 
smashes up the car. Childbirth is not nearly so dangerous 
as a wild ride in an automobile. 
Textbook for 
Midwives 
1953, 1974; 827 pp. 
$18.75 Postpaid from: 
Longman, Inc. 
19 West 44th Street 
New York, NY 10036 
The Adoption Adviser 
Adoption is simply a way to have a child yet add zero to 
the population. 
It’s more and more popular these days — 
so much so that white infants are sometimes scarce and 
older, non-white and disabled children are increasingly in 
demand. (Adopting a special kid can be a great happiness- 
expanding deed.) The Adoption Adviser is considered 
the best introduction to adoption in general. 
It walks 
prospective parents through the entire process, from legal 
maneuvers to emotional changes. 
It doesn’t exactly try 
to talk you out of adopting, but it does ask you to 
articulate your reasons. 
It’s also full of names and ad- 
dresses of groups who can help you make the next step. 
—Art Kleiner 
[Suggested by Mary Bohan, Director of the 
Association for the 
Adoption of Special Kids] 
The Adoption Adviser 
Joan McNamara 
1975; 231 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Hawthorne Books, Inc. 
260 Madison Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
The Holt Book, Holt Children’s Service, Eugene, Oregon 
Holt, one of the leading international adoption agencies, 
puts out the Holt Book, sometimes called the Blue Book, 
which contains pictures and descriptions of children in 
the agency's custody. The children listed — from Korea, 
South Vietnam, or other foreign countries — generally 
are considered difficult to place because of age, racial 
background, or medical problems, or because there are 
brothers or sisters who must be adopted together. People 
who inquire about these children usually must meet the 
Holt agency‘s own standards for adoptive applicants in 
order to have their inquiries seriously considered. 
Unlike 
most other groups that maintain adoption exchanges, 
Holt directly places the children it lists. 
e 
In looking at these books together, you can talk of how 
excited and anxious you were for your child’s arrival, how 
you sat in the agency office or at the airport waiting. 
You can tell your child about how you laughed and cried 
at the same time because you were so happy. All of the 
funny-sad stories about how you adjusted to each other, 
and the colorful details that make the past vivid and 
important, will tell how you worked to make a family and 
learned to love each other in a special way that still grows 
every day. Children cherish stories of themselves and how 
they are loved. A memory book is one personal, creative, 
yet simple way to share and explain the adoption story. 
. 
~ COMMUNITY 
CHILDBIRTH 
Feeling the Forehead 
“T~ 
snotty, but sometimes it sounds worse than it is. A 
baby’s nasal passages are narrow, so just a little snot can 
make a racket. A baby can catch a cold, though, and have 
a runny nose that makes it hard to breathe while he 
nurses or sleeps. You can suction out a baby’s nose 
several times a day with a rubber syringe 
to clear it, but 
don’t overdo it, because that in itself can be irritating. 
If a baby is otherwise healthy, being snotty isn’t serious. 
You could mix 1 tsp. of salt in half a glass of water. Put 
2 -3 drops in each side of his nose, then suction out his 
nose. 
If he’s still noisy, suction it out again in five 
minutes. The salt water helps thin the snot. Do this 
2-3 times a day for 3 to 4days. You wouldn't want to 
use it longer than this, as syringing can be irritating and 
cause more snot to be made. You could also try sleeping 
e 
Snotty babies and colds: 
A baby can seem snorty and 
him in one of those little baby seats. 
e 
The Uterine Contractions 
True Labour 
False Labour 
1. Are always present. 
2. Are accompanied by 
abdominal tightening, 
discomfort or pain. 
3. Rarely exceed 60 seconds. 3. May last three to 
four minutes. 
1. Are not always present. 
2. Are not always painful. 
4. Recur with rhythmic 
4. Are erratic and 
regularity. 
irregular. 
5. Are often accompanied 
5. Are not accompanied 
by backache. 
by backache. 
The Cervix 
t 
True Labour 
1. The cervix is shortened. 
False Labour 
1. The cervix is 
not shortened. 
2. The os is not dilating. 
3. The membranes do not 
become tense. 
4. There is no show. 
2. The os is dilating. 
3. The membranes feel 
tense during a contraction. 
4. Show is usually present. 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
continued from last spread 
—Textbook for Midwives 
|
Cleaning the bell — It was dull black and I remem- 
+ ber that Comet didn’t work and auto polish didn’t 
work and paint remover didn’t work and Zud 
Brass Cleaner didn’t work, but I do not remember 
what did work because whatever it was, what 
mainly worked was me, rubbing for hours. We 
were using the church bell in our Fourth of July 
church float and it needed to look shiny. It did 
look shiny sitting on a wagon with a long rope 
and Hank trying to get people along the parade 
route to ring it as it passed. They didn’t much 
want to, not as much as you’d think but then 
much of my father’s life has been devoted to 
trying to get people to be more participatory than 
they are and it’s basically a good fight. We used it 
in other Fourth of July parades, inside a Cones- 
toga wagon loaned by Harvey who owned the 
all-you-can-eat-for-a-dollar place in Miamisburg 
with eight people including ineffectual me pulling 
it and my sister inside with ear guards ringing the 
bell, and another year it was inside a chicken wire 
and tissue paper replica of our red brick imitation 
castle church tower with me inside with ear guards 
ringing it. 
continued on next spread 
eee 
e eee 
er eos 
eee 
eeeererereeee 
eee 
eee 
eeseeeeeeeeeee 
