«ome rules and hints 
for teachers and students 
RULE ONE: Find a place you trust and then, try 
trusting it for awhile. 
RULE TWO: General duties of a student — pull 
everything out of your teacher; pull everything 
out of your fellow students. 
RULE THREE: 
General duties of a teacher — pull 
everything out of your students. 
RULE FOUR: 
Consider everything an experiment. 
RULE FIVE: Be self-disciplined — this means 
finding someone wise or smart and choosing to 
follow them. 
To be disciplined is to follow in a 
good way. 
To be self-disciplined is to follow in a 
better way. 
RULE SIX: Nothing is a mistake. 
There’sno win 
and no fail, there’s only make. 
RULE SEVEN: 
The only rule is work. 
If you 
work it will lead to something. 
/t’s the people 
who do all of the work all of the time who 
eventually catch on to things. 
RULE EIGHT: Don’t try to create and analyze at 
the same time. 
They’re different processes. 
RULE NINE: Be happy whenever you can manage 
it. Enjoy yourself. 
It’s lighter than you think. 
RULE TEN: “We're breaking all the rules. Even 
our own rules. And how do we do that? By leav- 
ing plenty of room for X quantities.” (John Cage) 
HINTS: Always be around. Come or go to 
everything. Always go to classes. Read anything 
you can get your hands on. Look at movies 
carefully, often. Save everything — it might come 
in handy later. 
—Corita Kent 
Baby and Child Care 
Baby and Child Care by Dr. Benjamin Spock is an excel- 
lent book to have handy, especially with a first child. 
The 
advice and explanations Dr. Spock gives regarding fever, 
rashes, coughs, innoculations, and clothing for the infant 
is presented in simple language, somewhat wordy and 
repetitious, but in such a manner that you cannot mis- 
understand or confuse his instructions. 
The chapters on 
illness, first aid, and special problems are excellent and 
probably the most read and re-read chapters in the book. 
Not only do you get lots of psychological guidance in 
the areas of toilet training, weaning, thumbsucking, and 
bed wetting but, as may be expected, there are sermons 
on aggressive children, no-war toys and growing up ina 
bomb-oriented world. 
You couldn't possibly agree with 
everything Dr. Spock says but after reading this book 
you are left with the feeling that you should relax, enjoy 
your baby, do what seems right and natural, and that 
Spock is speaking from experience and common sense. 
—Connie Duckworth 
The Well Baby Book 
This book will be especially appreciated by parents of 
babies who want to apply the principles of self-care to 
parenting. 
Covers normal child development, dealing 
with common illnesses and emergencies, dietary do’s and 
don‘ts. 
Also includes some sections you won't find in 
Dr. Spock — there is a strong emphasis on more natural 
approaches to childbirth; breast feeding is encouraged; 
and parents are advised to respect and nurture their 
child’s own natural healing process, and to avoid major 
medical intervention (e.g., tonsillectomies and adenoid- 
ectomies) whenever possible. 
The authors fee/ that 
medications and some surgical and diagnostic interven- 
tions are overused in pediatric practice. But they are 
also very clear that there are times when a doctor's help 
is necessary. 
They supply some useful guidelines to help 
the reader decide when, and when not, to consul/t a 
doctor. 
The book is particularly strong in its use of 
relaxation and visualization exercises to support both 
the well-being of child and parent 
alike. 
My only caution about this book is that readers who 
didn’t experience labor as exhilarating, who had a C- 
section, or who aren’t breastfeeding could get the feeling 
that they had done their child some terrible harm — 
although I’m sure that wasn’t the author's intention. But 
that’s a minor reservation, and on the whole this is a 
valuable and unique baby book. 
—Lewis Engel, PH.D. 
[Suggested by Tom Ferguson, M.D.] 
Baby and Child Care ///- 
Dr. Benjamin Spock 
ff! 
\ 
1946, 1976; 666 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid from: 
Pocket Books 
Attn: Order Department => 
1230 Avenue of 
the Americas 
New York, NY 
10020 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Better to remove and 
distract him than just 
to say, ‘‘No, no!”’ 
fee 
® 
Two-year-olds develop a 
characteristic swayback 
and potbelly, which they 
will lose toward the 
fourth year. 
sat! a 
ype! ‘ek 
we sneer 
e* 
Summit Books 
Simon and Schuster 
Attn: Order Department 
1230 Avenue of 
the Americas 
New York, NY 10020 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The Well Baby Book 
Mike Samuels, M.D. 
and Nancy Samuels 
1979; 400 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
The Complete Baby Book 
A consumer guide for parents-to-be and parents of children 
up to about three years, this book provides a thorough 
introduction to nearly every subject which concerns 
parenting. 
There are articles on pregnancy, nutrition, 
birthing, selecting a pediatrician, and a guide to determin- 
ing when to call the doctor for your child. 
In the back 
are lists of additional readings, a directory of special help 
agencies, and a directory of sources and manufacturers 
mentioned in the text. 
Large sections are devoted to 
evaluations of maternity products and infant and chil- 
dren’s supplies such as nursing aids, toys, clothing, cribs, 
car seats, etc. Each item is judged for safety and practi- 
cality. Since new products come on the market daily, and 
safety standards are being constantly revised, these kinds 
of evaluations become a must for responsible parents. 
This book way outclasses its competition, 
Good Things 
For Babies. 
—Evelyn Eldridge-Diaz 
The Complete 
Baby Book 
(A Total Guide to 
Buying Products, 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
Simon and Schuster 
Attn: Order Department 
1230 Avenue of 
Toys and 
3 
: 
‘ 
he Americas 
Medical Services) 
c 
Editarsof 
New York, NY 10020 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Consumer Guide 
1979; 320 pp. 
eS 
Happy Baby Food Grinder 
Park, Yorkville, 1L 60560. 
-3 
Safe-T-Seat 
Columbus, IN 47201 
This is the original baby-food grinder invented by a 
physician 23 years ago. The bowl is wide, the blades are 
constructed of stainless steel, and the fit of the neck 
cylinder and the blades against the strainer disc is smooth. 
Unbreakable and able to withstand cleaning in a sterilizer 
or dishwasher, the Happy Baby Food Grinder outper- 
forms its many competitors. Price range: $6 - $7.50. 
From: Bowland-Jacobs International, Inc., Fox Industrial 
This (Model 78) is a very new, dynamically tested car seat 
which shouldn’t be confused with other Peterson seats 
(such as the Safety Shell or the Safe-T-Seat Model 60) 
which are not considered safe. The Peterson Safe-T-Seat 
78 features thick foam padding on the seat body with a 
soft upholstery that has seams that are sewn rather than 
heat sealed. The seat offers seven positions from upright 
to reclining. 
It is adjusted by means of a metal tab ona 
tight spring which is lifted up and placed into notches on 
a semi-circular metal piece on the side of the seat. The 
seat has a high back and is positioned high enough to 
permit toddlers to see out of the car. The seat faces rear- 
ward for infants up to 17 pounds and forward for 
children weighing between 17 and 43 pounds. 
It requires 
tethering in the forward position. ... 
Overall, this is a 
superior design to all other seats on the market. Price 
$50. From: Peterson Baby Products, 2525 State Street, 
e 
More babies are overdressed than underdressed. This isn't 
good for them. 
If a person is always too warmly dressed, 
his body loses its ability to adjust to changes. He is more 
likely to become chilled. So in general, put on too little 
rather than too much and then watch the baby. Best 
guide is the color of his face. 
If he is getting cold, he loses 
the color from his cheeks. 
e 
To some degree, the first pregnancy spells the end of 
carefree youth — very important to Americans. The 
maidenly figure goes gradually into eclipse, and with it 
goes sprightly grace. Both eclipses are temporary but very 
real. The woman realizes that after the baby comes there 
will be distinct limitations of social life and other outside 
pleasures. No more hopping into the car on the spur of 
the moment, going anywhere the heart desires and coming 
home at any old hour. The same budget has to be spread 
thinner, and her husband’s attention, all of which has 
gone to her at home, will soon be going to two. 
e 
It’s a good idea to begin offering a sip of milk from the 
cup from the age of 5 months, so that the baby gets used 
to it before he is too opinionated. 
e 
Diaper rash is one of a number of primary irritant contact 
dermatitises. 
That is, it is an inflammation of the skin 
due to direct exposure to an irritating agent. The red- 
ness and swelling are the result of increased blood flow 
and greater amounts of moisture in the skin cells. The 
fatty junctions between cells are replaced by water, the 
cells are stretched apart, and the normal protective barrier 
of the skin is broken. The body deals with this situation 
by bringing in increased amounts of white blood cells to 
prevent or fight infection. 
Suggestions for Treating Diaper Rash 
Change diapers more frequently than normal or put 
baby in double diapers. 
Gently rinse or wash the diaper area with lukewarm water 
and mild soap, especially after a bowel movement. 
Dry the diaper area thoroughly after washing, using a 
blotting action, never rubbing. 
Expose the diaper area to air, heat lamps (at a safe 
distance), or sunlight. The sun’s ultraviolet rays actually 
kill bacteria, as well as dry the skin. 
Apply a nonprescription cream or ointment such as 
A and D, Diaparene, or Vaseline. These basically forma 
barrier to protect the skin from irritating agents and 
may also be healing or antibacterial. 
(Note: The baby’s 
skin must be completely clean and dry or the cream 
simply traps moisture and bacteria against the skin and 
aggravates the problem.) 
Let baby go without diapers whenever possible. 
Peterson Safe-T-Seat 
(infant position) 
Peterson Safe-T-Seat 
(child position) 
