Close-Up 
Now (after reading this) | know why my neighborhood 
developed the way it did — and why cities I've lived in 
previously developed the way they did. And now / know 
better how to find the parks, streets, culture, turf, beats 
around any new city which will help me make the neigh- 
borhood into my neighborhood — and what to look for 
in a neighborhood the next time | move. 
—Art Kleiner 
Close-Up 
(How to Read the 
American City) 
Grady Clay 
1973, 1980; 192 pp. 
$6.95 Postpaid from: 
University of 
Chicago Press 
Department PK 
5801 South Ellis Avenue 
Chicago, |L 60637 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Quite by accident, mixed into a long search, | stumbled 
upon one of the more important epitome districts to be 
found in any city that is still linked together by an 
establishment, power elite, or power structure. This is 
the distinct pathway or network of paths along streets, 
sidewalks, and corridors followed by central-city movers 
and shakers, influentials, wheelers and dealers, and 
hangers-on. 
Despite the rise of electronic communications, much 
important person-to-person business is still transacted out 
in the open, between office and lunch, courtroom and 
conference, bench and bar, desk and drinks. 
The process of my own discovery is worth looking into, 
for it tells something about the ways in which downtown 
epitome districts work, and suggests clues to their futures. 
In writing about my own city, Louisville, | found it 
essential to move about on foot, to pay personal calls on 
as many political, financial, and other key figures as 
possible, to see them in their own haunts and lairs, to 
probe their attitudes and experience, and, as a journalist, 
to move in public places, observing who was with whom 
for clues to future alliances, deals, and consortia. 
After repeated exposure, | ciscovered that one particular 
stretch of sidewalks, doors, and corridors in the financial- 
civic district was extraordinarily productive in contacts, 
tips, suggestions, reactions, observations, and gossip. 
e 
No city considers itself sufficiently armed to entice foot- 
loose tourists or industrialists without a new sort of 
epitome district called Six Flags Over Ourtown, or 
Vacation Village, Frontierland, Pioneerland, Butcher- 
town, German Village, Old(e) Town(e), or local imitations 
of Vieux Carre, Williamsburg, Sturbridge Village, Bavarian 
Alpine Village, and Old Salem. 
These new epitome districts usually have most if not all 
the following indicators: a name; well-defined boundaries 
or a boundary zone; local history made evident in maps, 
pamphlets, etc.; a mythology; a central zone of action; 
gatekeepers or at least symbolic entrances; and a variety 
of signs and symbols. A significant indicator isan 
_ 
increase in neighborhood celebrations. New York City in 
three years increased the number of street-closing permits 
from some 700 to over 5,000 in 1972 — mostly for 
neighborhood festivals. There is no limit to size: Disney 
World’s 56,000 acres combined with its promoters’ 
political power to collect highway interchanges and 
dominate the source of much of Florida's underground 
waters forecast a whole-new scale of epitome districts 
which, under single managements, may become world 
meccas for tourism. 
Travelers may discover themselves in a yet-to-be-defined 
epitome district through the presence of old place names, 
ethnic foods, religious carnival preparations; and become 
amateur historians by that simple device of trying to 
follow the old shore line in a waterfront city. (‘There is 
Dock Street, we must be getting close.’’) 
Surrounded by this mixture of newly emerging identity 
and old-style puffery, we need constant vigilance so as to 
match what we see happening against what is being artif- 
cially manufactured for us. Windbaggery — an airy form 
of packaging dear to chambers of commerce and tourism 
promoters — can easily blind us to the true nature of 
what is going on around us. 
Predictably, breaks in the gridiron pattern tell you where 
ah 
the original settlement ended and another, with a com- 
peting pattern, grew up next door. Most often the 
Original gridiron was at right angles to a water landing. 
New Orleans’ many grids follow the beds in the Missis- 
sippi River. Such breaks are handy navigation zones for 
getting one’s bearings in a strange city. 
The ‘‘success"’ of any of these environments depends on a 
very special sort of exchange between it and us. The 
environment | call an epitome district must be informa- 
tion rich, and packed with visible evidence of complexities 
beyond itself. 
The Death and Life of Great American Cities 
The Last Landscape 
These are the two best books on /and use planning | know 
about. Both writers became involved with the subject 
because of concern for particular places. Jane Jacobs was 
concerned to keep her neighborhood from being bull- 
dozed away by the urban renewers. She learned enough 
about the subject to write this book, a classic, old but 
fortunately not out-of-date. Her books challenge the 
assumptions of most city planners. She understands that 
a city is a human ecology, and that city planning is a 
problem in self-government. She has written a later book, 
The Economy of Cities, which is interesting but not as 
good as The Death and Life of Great American Cities. 
William H. Whyte does for suburbia and the countryside 
what Jane Jacobs does for the city. He was concerned 
about the desecration by developers of his native place, 
Chester County, Pennsylvania. Previously he had been a 
business writer and wrote The Organization Man. Now he 
is concerned with people in the landscape even more than 
people in organizations. Both he and Jane Jacobs 
provide tools for understanding land use on the level of 
the local planning commission where, like it or not, most 
land use decisions are being made. 
—Phillip Ebersole 
Better still, see A Pattern Language, p. 277. 
—SB 
The Death and Life of 
Great American Cities 
Jane Jacobs 
1961; 448 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
Vintage Books 
Random House 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The Last Landscape 
William H. Whyte 
1968; 402 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid from: 
Anchor Books 
Doubleday & Company 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
To generate exuberant diversity in a city's streets and 
districts, four conditions are indispensable: 
1. The district and indeed as many of its internal parts as 
Possible must serve more than one primary function; 
preferably more than two. These must insure the presence 
of people who go outdoors on different schedules and are 
in the place for different purposes, but who are able to 
use many facilities in common. 
2. Most blocks must be short; that is, streets and oppor- 
tunities to turn corners must be frequent. 
3. The district must mingle buildings that vary in age and 
condition, including a good proportion of old ones so 
that they vary in the economic yield they must produce. 
This mingling must be fairly close-grained. 
4. There must be a sufficiently dense concentration of 
people for whatever purposes may be there. This includes 
dense concentration in the case of people who are there 
because of residence. 
“| know how you feel,”’ he said, “| often go down there 
myself just to walk around the streets and feel that 
wonderful, cheerful street life. Say, what you ought to 
do, you ought to come back and go down in the summer 
if you think it’s fun now. You'd be crazy about it in 
summer. But of course we have to rebuild it eventually. 
We've got to get these people off the streets.” 
e 
There is a quality even meaner than outright ugliness or 
disorder, and this meaner quality is the dishonest mask of 
pretended order, achieved by ignoring or suppressing the 
real order that is struggling to exist and to be served. 
e 
How big, in functional terms, must an effective district 
be? | have given a functional definition of size: big 
enough to fight city hall, but not so big that streeet neigh- 
borhoods are unable to draw district attention and to count. 
—The Death and Life of Great American Cities 
What makes driving along back roads such a delight? 
It 
is more than the scenery; it is the tightness of scale. You 
go around abrupt curves, up sudden crests, under a 
canopy of overhanging foliage. Sometimes the view opens 
up to distant hills; sometimes it narrows down almost to 
a tunnel as you pass through woods. But always the edge 
of the landscape is close by — stone fences, a line of 
maples, a barn — so close by that we tarry where else we 
would speed. 
This thightness of scale is what gets improved away. 
Curves are straightened, crests flattened, the trees and 
stone fences moved out of the harm's way. The edge 
of the landscape gets moved back. —The Last Landscpe 
a 
Community Technology 
Karl Hess and friends worked for five years to transform 
the Adams-Morgan neighborhood in Washington, De. 
into a self-sufficient model of what could be done. 
There 
were fish farms, solar collectors, vegetable gardens and all 
the “good stuff” you could wish for. Thousands of people 
were involved in a town-meeting democratic direct-partici- 
pation self-governing system. It sounds great! It failed. 
Karl Hess tells what happened with sometimes heart- 
breaking honesty, and finishes the book by describing 
what could be done next time to make it keep working. 
As grand experiments are attemp ted, it is essential that 
chronicles such as this one are written both to record 
events and to give the subsequent efforts the benefit of 
experience. Thanks Karl. (See Return to the City, p. 373.) 
—J. Baldwin 
Community 
Technology 
Karl Hess 
1979; 107 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid from: 
Harper & Row 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Perhaps the most ingenious variation of the fish-farming 
technique was a small fish-farming operation on 17th 
Street N.W., which used as feed for its fish a “ranch” of 
cockroaches obtained from ‘‘broad stock’ rousted out in 
a clean-up campaign and fed exclusively from kitchen 
waste made available through the local trash separation 
service. Efforts of a well-known local lawyer to close 
down the operation were outwitted during the now 
legendary Cockroach Conflict in which the 17th Street 
fish farmers threatened, if stopped, to liberate their 
entire ranch of roaches in the neighborhood of the 
famed, and futilely fuming, lawyer. 
e 
An inevitable result of an undiscussed rising crime 
situation was the deterioration of the neighborhood and 
the easing of entry for the next wave of residents, the 
ones who could afford better security and who did not 
mind living in a small fortress so long as the address was 
fashionable. 
It happened in Adams-Morgan. 
But could neighborhood people have coped with crime? 
I certainly think so. 
It would mean first coping with 
their own children, facing them down, creating families 
that would absorb their energies and deserve their loyal- 
ites. Not easy. Not likely. And particularly not likely 
when parents are opiated by a welfare existence, and 
where schools are simply disciplinarian baby sitters, 
offering young people no creative alternative to violence 
as the way to get out, to get up, to get even. 
e 
The culture of poverty will run its course. How long 
that course is, | have no idea. |am convinced, however, 
that if the culture of poverty is to be broken in any black 
neighborhood it will be broken by black people, not by 
starry-eyed whites talking soul patter. 
——= 
Tools on loan from public libraries 
More libraries are getting into the too! rental business: 
patrons of the three-branch Grosse Pointe, Michigan, 
Library System have access to a 200-item, $9000 tool 
collection that was started 30 years ago by the local 
Rotary Club. Tools like power sanders are loaned out for 
three days and no deposit fee is required. 
Ohio's Canal Fulton Public Library has a collection that 
includes an auto tune-up kit, slide rule, microscope, 
guitar, four cassette players, several movie projectors, and 
a ventriloquist’s dummy. 
The Plainedge, New York, Public Library is loaning out 
pocket electronic calculators, rototillers, dwell meters, 
strobe lights, tree pruners, aluminum extension ladders, 
hedge trimmers, saber saws, belt sanders and electric 
sewing machines. 
Reports indicate that most patrons take care of equipment, 
though some losses and damages have occurred. 
(Reprinted from Library Journal) 
