Fé 
‘ 
S, 
“WATERSHED 
Streaming 
Wisdom 
Watershed Consciousness 
in the Twentieth Century 
by Peter Warshall 
here is a story in Brooklyn, where I spent 
much of my childhood, that has been 
repeated so many times (or happened so 
often) that I don’t know if it’s fact or legend. 
Two boys sit hunched at the curb. They watch 
with wonder a man flaking up pieces of asphalt 
with his pneumatic drill. One says to the other; 
“See, told you, that’s where the city stores its 
dirt.”” I remembered this story years later while 
guiding some kids from the Oakland Panther 
School on a nature walk. We had to walk through 
the Green Gulch Zen Center vegetable garden and 
I casually picked a carrot. “Oh man, that’s Bugs 
Bunny’s carrot.” Slowly, it dawned on me that 
most carrots come without tops, in plastic bags. 
Only on TV does the magic rabbit have a carrot 
with green leaves. 
In our towns and cities, the essential sources of 
life — water to drink and soil to grow food — 
remain hidden from our eyes. The hills and valleys 
are coated in asphalt, ancient streams are buried 
beneath housing and soil is filler between gas, 
water, and electric piping. While we have touched 
the moon together through the amazing electro- 
nics of television, we have simultaneously lost 
touch with the most obvious questions of our 
everyday living: 
Where does the water come from when you turn 
on the faucet? 
@ Where does it go when you flush the toilet? 
@ What is the name of the land that channels 
rain and waterflow past your home and into a 
creek or lake? 
@ What kind of soils are you and your home 
sitting on? 
Watershed consciousness is, in part, an invitation 
to peel off (not discard) the layer of 
industrial 
and technological activity that hides us from the 
water and soils of our communities. It is an 
invitation to reveal where you live. 
As a child, my eyes had no ability to see waterflow 
and landscape. Land was blocks, read by street 
signs, gridded with no sense of shape or contour. 
Water has been the liberator. For water is both 
beautiful and ruthless. It flows from one piece of 
property to another without a thought. It erodes 
cracks in the New York City sidewalks or thou- 
“Although the river and the hill-side do not resemble each other at first sight, they are 
only extreme members of a continuous series, and when this is appreciated, one may 
fairly extend the “river” all over the basin and up to its very divides. Ordinarily treated, 
the river is like the veins of a leaf; broadly viewed, it is like the entire leaf.” 
—W.M. Davis (1899) 
sands of miles of badlands; carries nutrients down 
the whole Mississippi to the delta or down the 
White House roof to leaves caught in the gutter. 
It doesn’t care if it’s drunk or pissed, if it’s shared 
by a thirsty family or hoarded by a cactus. 
Because waterflow does not obey human desires, 
it forces humans to 
join together to control and to 
use and to re-use beneficially. Because waterflow 
does not follow human desires or subdivision 
maps, it creates the need for co-operation. What 
happens upstream changes life downstream, and 
the demands of downstream alter upstream activity. 
From the forested headwaters to the agricultural 
mid-stream valleys to the commercial and indus- 
trial centers at the river’s mouth, good and bad 
news travels by way of water. Did my drinking 
water take a farmer’s supply, cause his farm to 
close down and vegetables to be imported to the 
city from longer distances and at higher prices? 
Did my toilet flush give a downstream swimmer 
gastro-intestinal upset? Did my coastal car exhaust 
get carried back to the headwaters and fall on the 
forests as acid rain, killing trees and upping the 
price of lumber? 
The mainstem of the river and the surrounding 
hill slopes enclose all these people — the upstream 
loggers and miners, the mid-stream farmers, the 
downstream office workers, fishermen, etc. — 
into one basin. The watershed is a hydraulic com- 
mons and a necessary community. Watershed 
consciousness is, in part, a little promotional cam- 
paign to advertise the mutual concerns and needs 
that bind upstream and downstream peoples and 
“‘life-styles” together. 
My own sense of water’s importance came from 
hitch-hiking to Los Angeles in 1965. The man 
who picked me up took me to his apartment to 
use his bathroom and call friends. I walked into 
the dark bathroom, unable to find the light 
switch. A turquoise glow came from the corner. 
The toilet bowl had an electric light inside the 
bowl. I pulled the little chromium lever and the 
toilet flushed absolutely silently. Eight years 
later, the town I lived in had to decide where their 
wastewater should go when they flushed their 
toilets. Should homes keep septic tank systems 
that returned treated sewage to backyard plantlife, 
or switch to centralized sewers that collected all 
Peter Warshall, 37, has been natural history editor with CoEvolution Quarterly since 1 974. He got his Ph.D. in Biological 
Anthropology at Harvard after work in Africa and Puerto Rico and with Claude Levi-Strauss in France. For the last 
decade he has been a major water-public-servant for his town in Northern California. At present he is in Tucson, Arizona 
working on a major book called Watersheds. A less major previous book, Septic Tank Practices (p. 243), has a 
considerable following among the professionals and amateurs in that field. 
—SB 
the water and, after energy-expensive treatment, 
dumped it in the ocean? I wrote: 
As industrialization intensified, Western civiliza- 
tion became more and more alienated from the 
body’s plumbing and its connection to Nature’s 
pathways. Instead of eating, defecating onto the 
ground, fertilizing plants with the feces, and eating 
again, we simply reach behind our backs and pull 
a little chromium lever. Instead of defecating into 
the earth, we sit on a toilet filled with good drink- 
ing water which comes from some unknown river 
and, after flushing, goes to some unknown destina- 
tion. Instead of taking responsibility for our 
excrement, we are embarrassed by defecation and 
avoid direct discussion by substituting all kinds of 
diversionary vocabulary (‘‘ca ca” and “poo poo” 
or abbreviations like ‘“‘May I be excused.”’) 
Four events created our alienation from the circle 
of feces-fertilizer-food-feces. Piped water elimi- 
nated the out-house and bedpan and led to the 
invention of the flush toilet. The flush toilet itself 
allowed the Victorian flush-and-forget mentality 
to flourish. Modern medicine, having conquered 
all the dangerous diseases caused by sewage, 
reduced the necessity to connect feces with the 
human body. Finally, the use of petroleum- 
based fertilizers temporarily broke the necessity of 
needing feces for growing food. 
Helping the town led me to run for public office 
and wade through the turbulence of human self- 
interests, technological choices, cashflow, and 
personal vision. I emerged seeing the wounds all 
of us as recent inhabitants of this land have in- 
flicted on the water and soils that sustain us. 
I became a “water-watcher,” a consultant attemp- 
ting to encourage humans to quickly diagnose 
watershed disease and to heal the polluted waters 
— the eroded clearcut slopes, the streams unneces- 
sarily lined in concrete, the estuaries crudely 
drained and diked. 
In summary, watershed consciousness focuses on 
place. It is not inner geography — the continuing 
attempt to feel better by mapping the mysterious 
meanderings of our minds; nor is it whole Earth 
geography — the struggle to gain some perspective 
of our place on the planet. We will not ask, When 
is my paranoia appropriate? nor, How long will 
the Earth’s oil resources really last? The journey 
of 
this perspective is right out your window — 
the immediate valleys and hills that surround you, 
that channel rain and snowmelt into your nearest 
creeks and rivers and lakes. It is a first excursion 
of thought into the place you live. A Middle Way 
between Mind and Planet. 
cs 
