> F 
DESIGN 
The Design of Design 
/t’s superficially a book for design engineers, but should 
be useful to anyone engaged in the design of physical 
objects or strategies. Simple and basic. More advanced 
treatment of design techniques gets you into computers 
and very sophisticated decision making theory. The main 
trip is concentrated on getting your head straight so that 
design decisions of any sort can be made intelligently. 
There’s a good bit of practical advice concealed in a slurry 
of English Humour. 
The only book of its type that we 
know of. Among the better points: 
Concentration and then relaxation is the common pattern 
behind most creative thinking. 
Beware of intrinsic impossibilities. 
Beware of pseudo-technical words. 
[He means words like “sturdy,” “big,” “beautiful,” etc.] 
Define problems in figures or configurations. 
Aim at continuity of energy. 
He really gets to the center of the modern-technology- 
versus New-Mexico-Funk argument: 
If the design of a particular machine or production line 
is based on the way the process was originally done by 
hand, it is unlikely to be the final form. The feeding 
forward by mechanizing a style that was handy when 
only hands were available is doomed, in the long run, 
to be superseded by the feeding back of ideas and 
materials from the physical sciences. Beware of well- 
dressed arts and crafts. 
—J, Baldwin 
e 
Suspension bridge designers thought at first that the 
major problem would be the load, and learned by spec- 
tacular experience that it was really the stability. 
The contrast of style between the bicycle and the cart- ~) 
wheel can be seen in the Forth railway bridge and the 
Severn road bridge. 
oN 
The Design of Design 
Gordon L. Glegg 
1969; 93 pp. 
$1 1.95 postpaid from: 
Cambridge University Press 
510 North Avenue 
New Rochelle, NY 10801 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Invention 
Inventor 
Safety razor 
Traveller in corks 
Kodachrome films 
Musician 
Ballpoint pen 
Sculptor 
Automatic telephone 
Undertaker 
Parking meter 
Journalist 
Pneumatic tyre 
Long-playing record 
Veterinary surgeon 
Television engineer 
ae 
a 
The Science of Design 
Mr. Glegg continues his useful thoughts with special 
emphasis on helping the designer/engineer handle scientific 
research. 
The author contends that most designers are 
not competent to set up and interpret experiments, and 
he illustrates this point (as usual) with horrifying examples 
and considerable wit. He then goes on to show how 
experiments can be done and their results put to use. 
The subject is not at all an easy one, as | can attest 
from experience. The book will be useful to non-profes- 
sional designers too, as it is actually a treatise encouraging 
clear thinking set apart from ego-pitfalls. 
The small 
number of pages per dollar is deceiving. All meat, and 
good reading too. 
—J. Baldwin 
The Science 
of Design 
Gordon L. Glegg 
1973; 94 pp. 
$13.95 postpaid from: 
Cambridge University Press 
510 North Avenue 
New Rochelle, NY 10801 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
(1) You can define exactly a two dimensional figure. 
(2) You cannot define exactly a three-dimensional figure. 
(3) With (2) what you will see will be dictated by what 
you want or expect to see. In other words you are believing 
yourself, not believing the object. From this follows: 
(4) A two-dimensional figure tells you nothing about 
itself in three dimensions. 
Design Methods 
The discipline of design is misunderstood by many people. 
This book helps explain things. The author briefly pre- 
sents some of the obvious design failures in our industrial 
society, such as traffic congestion, noise pollution, etc., 
and says... 
These need not be regarded as accidents of nature or as 
acts of God, to be passively accepted: they can instead 
be thought of as human failures to design for conditions 
brought about by the products of designing. Many will 
resist this view because it places too much responsibility 
on designers and too little upon everyone else. 
If such 
is the case then it is high time that everyone who is 
affected by the oversights and limitations of designers 
got in on the design act. 
The book outlines traditional approaches. 
It then goes 
ahead and gives a really useful review of thirty five recently 
developed strategies, a brief description of each, and a 
way of determining which will likely be most useful to 
you. Many 
of the strategies are ways of organizing your 
information so that your intuition can be well enough 
informed to act. Several of the strategies are mainly 
concerned with preparing your head so that it may 
intuit effectively. Methods of analyzing the results are 
also presented. 
As far as | know, this book is the only overall collection 
and review of strategies. | see it as a truly useful tool. 
I’ve ordered one myself. 
—J. Baldwin 
Design Methods 
(Seeds of Human Futures) 
J. Christopher Jones 
1970; 407 pp. 
$25.75 postpaid from: 
John Wiley & Sons 
One Wiley Drive 
Somerset, NJ 08873 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The complicated pattern of the net- 
work on the left can be transformed 
into the simple pattern on the right by 
re-arranging the nodes. This is analo- 
gous to the “change of set” which can 
enable one to solve a previously 
insoluble problem. 
The Nature & Aesthetics of Design 
David Pye seeks a basic theory of design and disputes much 
current jargon. Form follows a lot more than function. 
—Lloyd Kahn 
[Suggested by Bob Brooks] 
The Nature & 
Aesthetics of Design 
(Formerly The Nature 
of Design) 
David Pye 
1964, 1978; 159 pp. 
$1 2.95 postpaid from: 
Van Nostrand 
Reinhold 
Order Department 
7625 Empire Drive 
Florence, KY 41042 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The Art and Science of Inventing 
This is the first book I’ve encountered on this subject 
that matches my actual field experience. 
The au thor 
wishes to prevent the inexperienced innovator from 
following “‘pre-doomed paths.” Fora good start he 
introduces things with “Some Fundamental Principles of 
Technology”; one of the best expositions I’ve seen. 
That chapter alone should be required reading for the 
wind and solar experimenters. Equally nifty chapters on 
model making, prototyping, testing, patents, and design 
procedure add up to a book that is actually useful! 
There is a particularly good section on avoiding dead-ends 
and self-defeating activities. Many of the pro fessional 
hassles of my 
life could have been avoided if this book 
had been available years ago. Ah well... 
—J. Baldwin 
The Art and Science 
of Inventing 
Gilbert Kivenson 
1977; 195 pp. 
$1 1 -95 postpaid from: 
Van Nostrand Reinhold 
Order Department 
7625 Empire Drive 
Florence, KY 41042 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
® 
Sometimes unusually high accuracy or efficiency can be 
obtained by clever utilization of system characteristics. 
It is a most diverting spectacle to see the experts in 
work study exercising their considerable ingenuity to 
find the one cheapest way of doing operations which 
could perfectly well be dispensed with; for example, 
getting shiny surfaces on furniture. The ‘one best way’ of 
doing things like that is not to do them. 
e 
Because there has not been any coherent theory of the 
nature of design, and because it is evident that what a 
thing does has some bearing on what it looks like, ‘func- 
tion’ has been loosely used to cover any or all the factors 
which limit preference. 
It has diverted attention from the 
fact that those influences are many, disparate, and of 
various effect, and particularly from the fact that economy, 
not physics, is always the predominant influence because 
directly and indirectly it sets the most limits. ‘Function’ 
apparently covers economy as well as anything else you 
please. It is a wonderful hindrance to any understanding 
of design and will die hard, for it makes a fairly intricate 
subject look simple. 
At other times, a system can be so coupled as to aid in 
its own operation. The self-generating principle may be 
defined as the art of utilizing part of the forces already 
present in a device for its overall guidance or for an 
improvement in its performance. 
It is a kind of feedback 
without the use of discrete amplifying elements ...A 
difficult military problem before the days of air transport 
was the moving of men and equipment across wide and 
fast flowing streams. An ancient but elegant solution 
makes use of the river’s force. 
The first step is getting a strong swimmer across the 
stream with one end of a light cord. When this has been 
done, several strong “pendulum” lines are brought across 
and anchored firmly to a large tree or rock at point A. 
A raft is then constructed and lashed to the pendulum 
lines. A control line is tied to the raft and snubbed 
around a tree at point B; the raft is now loaded. The 
control line is carefully paid out; the force of the flow 
will move the raft and its load across the river. When 
unloaded, the empty raft is easily returned for another 
load by use of the control line. Employing a long control 
line, the last man (or team) can use the raft to cross the 
river. All lines and the raft are then recovered and stored 
for later use. 
The “pendulum” 
method for 
harnessing river power. 
