a 
1 
| 
| 
i 
| 
a 
a pao 
Le 
<s 
ee 
LEARNING 
COLLEGE 
Six Nonlectures 
e.e. cummings distilling his own life into finest, headiest 
liquor. 
The man tells more news in less words, and more 
heart with less throb, than anyone else writing. 
Life is a high calling, proves this book. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Russell Troutman] 
iz six nonlectures 
e.e. cummings 
1953, 1974; 114 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid from: 
Harvard University Press 
79 Garden Street 
Cambridge, MA 02138 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
(Sensational listening — the original cummings non- 
lectures on Caedmon Records, 515 8th Avenue, 
New York, NY 10018.) 
e 
By way of describing my father, let me quote a letter... 
| wot not how to answer your query about my father. He 
was a New Hampshire man, 6 foot 2, a crack shot &a 
famous fly-fisherman & a firstrate sailor (his sloop was 
named The Actress) & a woodsman who could find his 
way through forests primeval without a compass & a 
canoeist who'd stillpaddle you up to a deer without 
ruffling the surface of a pond & an ornithologist & 
taxidermist & (when he gave up hunting) an expert 
photographer (the best I’ve ever seen) & an actor who 
portrayed Julius Caesar in Sanders Theatre & a painter 
(both in oils & watercolours) & a better carpenter than 
any professional & an architect who designed his own 
houses before buildingthem & (when he liked) a plumber 
who just for the fun of it installed all his own water- 
works & (while at Harvard) a teacher with small use for 
professors — by whom (Royce, Lanman, Taussig, etc.) 
we were literally surrounded (but not defeated) — & 
later (at Doctor Hale’s socalled South Congregational 
really Unitarian church) a preacher who announced, 
during the last war, that the Gott Mit Uns boys were in 
error since the only thing which mattered was for man to 
be on God’s side (& one beautiful Sunday in Spring 
remarked from the pulpit that he couldn't understand 
why anyone had come to hear him on such a day) & 
horribly shocked his pewholders by crying ‘‘the Kingdom 
of Heaven is no spiritual roofgarden: it’s inside you” & 
my father had the first telephone in Cambridge & (long 
before any Model T Ford) he piloted an Orient Buck- 
board with Friction Drive produced by the Waltham 
watch company & my father sent me to a certain public 
school because its principal was a gentle immense coal- 
black negress & when he became a diplomat (for World 
Peace) he gave me & my friends a tremendous party up 
in a tree at Sceaux Robinson & my father was a servant 
The Lifetime Reading Plan 
Will reading the best works of Plato, Marcus Aurelius, 
Chaucer, Shaw, Dickens, Voltaire, Thoreau, Freud, 
Nabokov, Borges, etc., make you a better person? 
Yes. 
Will this book, revised in 1978 for the first time since it 
appeared in 1960, help you DO IT? Also yes. The 
selection is fine, the 1-page introductions to each author 
by Fadiman are inviting, not daunting. 
The Lifetime 
Reading Plan 
Clifton Fadiman 
1960, 1978; 256 pp. 
$1 0.95 postpaid from: 
T.Y. Crowell and Co. 
Harper and Row 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Wee 
VEE 
OMEN 
ANELPAT 
e 
The books here discussed may take you fifty years to 
finish. They can of course be read in a much shorter 
time. The point is that they are intended to occupy an 
important part of a whole life, no matter what your 
present age may be. Many of them happen to be more 
entertaining than the latest best-seller. 
Still, it is not on 
the entertainment level that they are most profitably 
read. What they offer is of larger dimensions. 
It is rather 
like what is offered by loving and marrying, having and 
rearing children, carving out a career, creating a home. 
They can be a major experience, a source of continuous 
internal growth. Hence the word Lifetime. These authors 
are life companions. Once part of you, they work in and 
on and with you until you die. They should not be read 
in a hurry, any more than friends are made ina hurry. 
we 
of being out of control. 
of the people who fought Boston's biggest & crookedest 
politician fiercely all day & a few evenings later sat down 
with him cheerfully at the Rotary Club & my father's 
voice was so magnificent that he was called on to imper- 
sonate God speaking from Beacon Hill (he was heard 
all over the common) & my father gave me Plato's 
metaphor of the cave with my mother’s milk. 
e 
One ever memorable day, our ex-substantialist (deep in 
structural meditation) met head-on professor Royce; who 
was rolling peacefully home from a lecture. ‘‘Estlin” his 
courteous and gentle voice hazarded “| understand that 
you write poetry.’ | blushed. ‘‘Are you perhaps” he 
inquired, regarding a particular leaf of a particular tree 
“acquainted with the sonnets of Dante Gabriel Rossetti?” 
| blushed a different blush and shook an ignorant head. 
“Have you a moment?” he shyly suggested, less than half 
looking at me; and just perceptibly appended ‘’I rather 
imagine you might enjoy them.” Shortly thereafter, sage 
and ignoramus were sitting opposite each other ina 
diminutive study (marvellously smelling of tobacco and 
cluttered with student notebooks of a menacing bluish 
shade) — the ignoramus listening, enthralled; the sage 
intoning, lovingly and beautifully, his favorite poems. 
And very possibly (although | don’t, as usual, know) 
that is the reason — or more likely the unreason — I've 
been writing sonnets ever since. 
e 
Back in the days of dog-eat-dog — my first anecdote 
begins — there lived a playboy; whose father could easily 
have owned the original superskyscraper-de-luxe: a self- 
styled Cathedral Of Commerce, endowed with every 
impetus to relaxation; not excluding ultraelevators which 
(on the laudable assumption that even machinery occa- 
sionally makes mistakes) were regularly tested. Testing 
an ultraelevator meant that its car was brought clean up, 
deprived of safety devices, and dropped. As the car 
hurtled downward, a column of air confined by the ele- 
vator shaft became more and more compressed; until 
(assuming that nothing untoward happened) it broke 
the car’s fall completely — or so | was told by somebody 
who should know. At any rate, young Mr X was in the 
habit not only of attending these salubrious ceremonies, 
but of entering each about-to-be-dropped car, and of 
dropping with it as far and as long as the laws of a pre- 
Einsteinian universe permitted. 
Eventually, of course, 
somebody who shouldn't know telephoned a newspaper; 
which sent a reporter: who (after scarcely believing his 
senses) asked the transcender of Adam point-blank why 
he fell so often. Our playful protagonist shrugged his 
well-tailored shoulders — “‘for fun” he said simply; 
adding (in‘a strictly confidential undertone) “and it’s 
wonderful for a hangover.” 
Here, | feel, we have the male American stance of my 
adolescence; or (if you prefer) the adolescent American 
male stance of what some wit once nicknamed a “‘lost 
generation”: whereof — let me hastily append — the 
present speaker considers himself no worthy specimen. 
My point, however, isn’t that many of us were even 
slightly heroic; and is that few of us declined a gamble. 
| don’t think we enjoyed courting disaster. 
| do feel we 
liked being born. 
e 
William Blake (1757 - 1827) — Selected Works 
Once, William Blake tells us, he walked to the end of the 
heath and touched the sky with his finger. At four he 
screamed upon perceiving God’s head at the window. He 
saw angels in boughs and the prophet Ezekiel under a 
tree. 
His wife once remarked, quite placidly, ‘I have very 
little of Mr. Blake’s company. 
He is always in Paradise.” 
Perhaps an exaggeration, but there is no doubt that 
Blake felt himself on familiar terms with spirits. He is 
the supreme type, at least in modern times, of the 
visionary poet. 
Toward this strange, baffling man of streaky genius one 
has a choice of attitudes. You may put him down as a 
faker, though the sweetness and honesty of his whole 
life belie it. Some of his contemporaries, quite celebrated 
then, quite forgotten now, called him a harmless lunatic. 
A psychologist will talk of Blake’s ‘‘eidetic vision,” which 
is simply a specialized ability to project into the external 
world images we usually hold in our minds. Many 
children have this power, Joan of Arc may have had it, 
and rationalists cite it when trying to explain the visions 
of saints and even Jesus. Finally you can ponder Blake's 
sly and, from the viewpoint of the professional artist and 
poet, quite practical advice to his friends: “Work up 
imagination to the state of vision.” 
It doesn’t matter. By the pragmatic test (see William 
James, 80, and Dewey, 81) Blake is a success. 
His 
paintings, drawings, and engravings, though not of the 
highest order, are beautiful and moving. His finest verse, 
of which there is not a great deal, is original and unfor- 
gettable. His ideas, long mocked or neglected, appeal 
with increasing force to those who have lost faith in 
materialism’s ability to bring happiness to the race. 
Blake was that odd thing, a completely spontaneous 
human being. “‘A man without a mask,” a friend called 
him. Living and dying in poverty, he was probably one 
of the most energetically joyful men of his time. He had 
some secret of ecstasy denied to most of us, and at times 
it stimulated odd behavior: he and his wife were once 
discovered in their little arbor, stark naked, reading 
Paradise Lost aloud. 
In his rejection of most of the institutions of his time (as 
well as in his crankiness) he resembles other figures we 
ut yourself near the ragged edge, because that is where things are moving the fastest. 
If you’re 
learning how to ski, the optimum learning rate is where you’re not standing up all the way 
down the hill but neither are you wiping out every time — where you're right on the edge 
—Rusty Schweickart, Apollo 9 astronaut 
| Never Promised You a Rose Garden 
This must be one of the least reviewed and most persis- 
tent best sellers in history. 
/t is the true account, lightly 
fictionalized, of a young girl's three years in an insane 
asylum, stone mad. 
I’ve read it twice. 
College students 
devour it. | don’t know exactly why. 
It cuts through a 
world of bullshit. 
“Dr. Fried,” the therapist in the story, 
was Frieda Fromm-Reichmann no less. Two heroines 
these women. 
-SB 
| Never Promised 
You a Rose Garden 
Joanne Greenberg 
(Hannah Green) 
1964; 255 pp. 
$1.95 postpaid from: 
New American Library 
P.O. Box 120 
120 Woodbine 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
She began to thrash again, even though she was exhausted. 
“I'm all stopped and closed 
.. 
. like it was before | came 
here... only the volcano is burning hotter and hotter 
while the surface doesn’t even know if it is alive or not!” 
The doctor moved closer. 
‘It is one of these times,” 
she said quietly, ““when what you say is most important.”’ 
Deborah pushed her head hard into the bed. 
“’I can’t 
even sort them out — the words.”’ 
“Well then, just let it come to us.” 
“Are you that strong?” 
“We are both that strong.” 
Deborah took a breath. 
*’| am poisonous and | hate it. 
| am going to be destroyed in shame and degradation and 
| hate it. | hate myself and the deceivers. 
| hate my life 
and my death. For my truth the world gives only lies; | 
tried with Royson time after time, but | saw that all he 
wanted was to be right. He might as well have said, 
‘Come to your senses and stop the silliness’ — what they 
said for the years and years when | was disappointing 
them on the surface and lying to them with the inmost 
part of Yr and me and the enemy soldier. God curse 
me! God curse me!”’ 
A soft scraping sound, a breathed rasp, came after, as 
she tried to cry, but the sound of it was so ridiculous and 
ugly that she soon stopped. 
“Maybe when | leave,”’ Furii said, ‘‘you can learn to cry. 
For now, let me say this: measure the hate you feel now, 
and the shame. That quantity is your capacity also to 
love and to feel joy and to have compassion. 
Also, | will 
see you tomorrow.” 
e 
When her vision cleared, it was only enough to see and 
hear as if through a keyhole. She was aware that she was 
shouting and that attendants were in the room and that 
the walls of the room were covered with Yri words and 
sentences. Ranged around here were all the outpourings 
of hatred and anger and bitterness in a language whose 
metaphors used ‘‘broken” to mean “‘consenting’’ and 
“third rail’ to mean ‘‘complying.”” 
All the words were 
extreme. Uguru, which was ‘‘dog-howling’’ and meant 
loneliness, was written in its superlative form in letters a 
foot high the length of one wall: 
UGURUSU. The 
words were written in pencil and in blood, and in some 
places scratched with a broken button. 
There was a look of horror and surprise even on the 
faces of a hardened D-ward staff, and it was that look 
which brought the full fire from her. The world’s fear 
and hatred were like the sun, common and pervading, 
daily and accepted — a law of nature. Now its rays were 
focused in their look, waking fire. The words Deborah 
spoke were not loud, but they were full of hatred and 
they were Yri. 
“Where is what you used to scratch this, Miss Blau?” 
“Recreat,’’ Deborah said. “Recreat xangoarn, temre 
xangoranan. Naza e fango xangoranan. 
Inai dum. 
Ageai dum.” 
("Remember me. Remember me in anger, fear me in 
bitter anger. Heat-craze my teeth in bitterest anger. 
The signal glance drops. The Game’’ — Ageai meant 
the tearing of flesh with teeth as torture — ‘‘is over.’’) 
have met, such as Thoreau, Nietzsche, and Lawrence. 
His romanticism is a far deeper thing than that of the 
Romantic poets who followed him — Wordsworth, 
Keats, Shelley. ‘’Man is all imagination,” he tells us. 
“God is man and exists in us and we in him.’’ And again: 
“We are led to believe a lie when we see with, not 
through, the eye.” 
His scorn of what is called common sense led him to 
champion freedoms of all kinds, in the religious, political, 
and sexual spheres. Calmly, in a memorable sentence, he 
anticipates Freud: ‘Sooner murder an infant in its cradle 
than nurse unacted desires.’ 
For him ‘’Exuberance is 
Beauty.” Nonconformists of all stripes love to quote 
“Damn braces. 
Bless relaxes.’’ He hated all those virtues 
arising out of measure and calculation: ‘’The tigers of 
wrath are wiser than the horses of instruction.” 
