Equipment 
by Jim Stockford 
Dear Art: 
| am forced to cut way back on the audio material for the 
reason that so much of the equipment out is undistin- 
guished in any sense from the rest of the pack. Major 
differences really boil down to front panel design and 
choice of knob colors. Progress in the design of analog 
gear has been pushed far beyond the limits of the trans- 
ducers (microphones and speakers), and further develop- 
ment will be boring. 
To hell-with it. | cannot get behind 
amedium-priced cassette player that is no different from 
twenty others. 
1 am drenched in statistics that compare highly technical 
data which merely reflect design around solid state devices 
that are available to all manufacturers. 
Only the very high 
end professional gear has any meaningful differences, 
depending upon its application. 
This means comparison 
of machines that cost thousands and tens of thousands of 
dollars, with appeal only for someone working full-time 
and competing heavily with someone across town for 
scarce dollars sticky from wet dreams. 
The appeal is 
ultimately to a goon mentality. 
With the record industry sick and dying, stinking of 
cocaine, a victim of its own machismo, audio stores are 
switching to video fast. Novelty for its own sake will be 
the only impetus for sales until digital techniques take 
over completely. 
Yet, when the dust settles there are a few items that will 
stand the test of time. Some of the following equipment 
may necessarily vanish shortly, but |’ve made an effort 
to describe mostly basic, high quality goods with an eye 
to dollar value. Hopefully most of these pieces will 
stay with us until the technology fades. Readers should 
write the manufacturers for the location of the distributor 
nearest them or check their local audio equipment store. 
AUDIO EQUIPMENT 
RC-550 Radio Cassette Recorder. $280 (approx.), Japan 
Victor Corporation (JVC), Home Entertainment, 1011 
West Artesia Blvd., Compton, CA 90220. Tuned to music 
or tuned to the police, on the beach or on the bus, low- 
priced and loud, here is an FM/shortwave/medium wave 
portable radio with a cassette player-recorder complete 
with a microphone (which means that this set can be used 
as a PA system to boot). Powered by a mighty seven watt 
amplifier that covers the entire audio range from 100 Hz 
to 10 kHz at no more than 10% THD, the self-contained 
Three Way Speaker System (10” woofer, 4’ midrange, 
2” tweeter) sounds astonishingly good for the price. 
.o= 
Advent Model 300 FM Stereo Reciever 
Advent Model 300 Stereo FM Receiver. $370 (approx.), 
Advent Corporation, 195 Albany Street, Cambridge, 
MA 02139. Do you want avery, very fine system for a 
moderate price? Would you like a system that sounds 
great in your living room, that won’t rattle the windows 
Or give you a headache? Go out and buy the Advent 
Model 300 FM Stereo Receiver. 
This receiver only puts 
Out about 15 watts per channel. 
This is a plus in this 
world of 100, 200, up to 1000 watt amplifiers. 
The 
reason? Because you can develop a full, beautiful sound 
at home without having to turn your system up so loud 
that you can’t talk or think or hear the phone. Systems 
with a lot of wattage generally don’t even tinkle until 
they are turned up to a devastating point. 
The amplifier 
has excellent frequency response and distortion figures, 
and the FM radio section is superlative. 
Crown FM1 Tuner. $1000 (approx.), Crown, 1718 West 
Mishawaka Road, Elkhart, IN 46514. Crown is one of 
the very few manufacturers that has over decades consis- 
tently produced equipment that can be rated as the finest 
in the world. 
Their FM 1 stereo tuner really and truly 
belongs in that class. An FM tuner for well over one 
thousand dollars, it features a station memory that 
remembers your favorite stations even with the plug pulled 
from the wall; its tuning is ultra sensitive, with variable 
muting to select out stations that have a /ow signal to 
noise ratio. 
There is a search and scan for all stations or 
for stereo only stations, and a level adjust to allow you to 
set the level of your preamp to match the levels put out 
by your other equipment. Much more is included in this 
package, but suffice it to say that this is the finest FM 
tuner in the world and deserves the name FM 17. 
Pixoff record cleaner. $20 (approx.), Sonic Research, 
Inc., Danbury, CT 16810. A wonderful tool which helps 
you take care of your records better than anything else. 
The Pixoff record cleaner is a small roller that is covered 
with a specially designed 
adhesive covering that 
reaches to the very bottom 
of your record grooves. 
Roll this across your 
records and it picks up 
all of the dirt, completely, 
and it doesn’t leave a 
sticky residue of cleaning 
fluid. When the adhesive 
covering gets too dirty, 
simply remove it to 
expose the next one 
underneath. 
Don’t settle 
for anything less. 
Pixoff Record Cleaner 
PZM microphone. $360 (approx.), Crown, 1718 West 
Mishawaka Road, Elkhart, IN 46514. 
Until now, all of 
the technology for changing sound energy into electrical 
energy and back was based on theoretical work done in 
the twenties and thirties. 
The PZM (Pressure Zone 
Microphone) is a new and exciting break through in micro- 
phone technology which offers the possibility of much 
truer response characteristics than traditional microphony. 
Here is the short story. A microphone element is placed 
in a capsule and suspended within a few millimeters of a 
large homogeneous surface. 
The theory is that the 
surface, or plate, will transmit to the microphone front 
and rear sound waves that are in phase, eliminating much 
of the cause of uneven response. 
The instrument has had 
much success in acoustical piano work and seems to be 
able to provide a very true signal from a live orchestra. 
Much lies between. 
This instrument has been getting rave 
reviews across the country, and anyone seriously inter- 
ested in recording must take a long look at it. 
Teac Model 144 Portastudio, a four track cassette 
recorder. $1600 (approx.), Teac Corporation of 
America, 7733 Telegraph Road, Montebello, CA 90640. 
! walked into the establishment of one of the /ocal pur- 
veyors of audio equipment and asked to be shown 
around. 
They told me that they were busy making deals. 
1 said, ““C’mon, guys, show me one good thing. What's 
your hottest piece of equipment?” “The Teac Model 144 
Portastudio,”’ they said, “now get out of 
here.” 
The Teac Model 144 Portastudio was designed for the 
immense number of people who wish to record at home 
and who are knowledgeable enough about recording 
techniques to be critical of their equipment. 
This 
machine includes as much of every thing-you-could- 
AUDIO EQUIPMENT 
Pe 
ee 
ee 
COMMUNICATIONS 
Model 144 Portastudio 
ever-want-in-a-recording-studio as is wise to put on an 
easy-to-use cassette deck. 
The main features are that it 
records four channels of program onto a cassette with 
Simul-Sine (sound on sound, so you can add new material 
to your already recorded program), and that it allows 
punch-ins (so you can re-do small parts of any track 
without having to re-do the entire track). 
A word of warning: this is not a wet dream studio with 
glowing lights and Jots of signal processing. 
/t is a basic, 
easy-to-use machine for doing the kinds of sketches most 
working musicians are interested in getting down, includ- 
ing professional demos. 
| have heard music done solely 
on this machine that was as good as any commercial 
product | have ever heard. 
Of course, the guys who did 
it knew what they were doing. 
TOOLS 
Paladin Stripex Wire Strippers (No. PA 1100). $29.95 
(approx.), Paladin Corporation, 31332 Via Colinas, 
Westlake, CA 91361. For anyone at an active electronics 
bench the Stripex PA 1100 is a new too/ that must be 
tried. 
This is a nose-feeding wire stripper that will auto- 
matically sense and strip any solid, stranded, or multiple 
cable wire from size 12 to size 30 AWG, and includes a 
built-in wire cutter. 
The stainless stee/ stripping blades 
are self-adjusting and will last for over one hundred 
thousand strips. Front-loading, small, and tough, this 
fiberglass reinforced nylon bodied tool is designed to 
operate in tight places, with insulation against shock 
hazards. 
It is a top contender in the arena of overal/ 
lowest cost per thousand stripping operations. 
Stripex 
PA 1100 
Paladin Corex coaxial cable stripper (No. PA 1204). 
+e. 
$30 (approx.), Paladin Corporation, 31332 Via Colinas, 
4 
Westlake, CA 91361. This too/ strips coaxial cable with 
rd 
an outside diameter of from 0.14” to 0.30” in such a 
way that in one operation the outer jacket is stripped, 
the shield and dielectric sheath are stripped and exposed 
to a length beyond the jacket set by the operator, and the 
inner conductor is stripped beyond the dielectric to any 
length set by the operator. 
Interchangeable blade cassettes 
allow for different stripping length configurations, and 
the replaceable blades are rated for up to 5000 cuts. 
Paladin Desoldering Tool (No. PA 1700). $15 (approx.), 
Paladin Corporation, 31332 Via Colinas, Westlake, CA 
91361. One way to te// an electronics bench technician 
is to look for the dents in his forehead. Small dents about 
the size of a nicke/ are the result of his using long spring- 
loaded solder sucking tools from which, upon being 
triggered, the inner piston handle pops back and strikes 
him in the forehead. 
Corex 
As these vacuum operated too/s have advantages over 
bulbs and wicks, it is nice that there is a well made 
alternative to the head denters. 
The Paladin Desoldering 
Tool features a sturdy metal body, teflon tips, and a 
heavy duty spring and plunger. Best of all is its compact 
size, which makes it convenient as a bench tool and handy 
in small or large equipment. & 
er 
ee 
ES 
Jim Stock ford is a semi-amateur, semi-professional audio/ 
electronic aficionado, who co-manages a performance 
space/recording studio called Valencia Tool and Die in 
San Francisco. He dashed around the local electronics 
shops to compile these reviews for us, then typed them 
up in his office, a tiny room piled high with cables, ampli- 
fiers, parts, tools, recorders, microphones. . 
. 
—Art Kleiner 
Desoldering 
ool 
ed 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
RP 
“Nurses give good heart.” 
—David Wills 
