LEARNING» 
PARENTING 
Ourselves and Our Children 
America today is so wrangled and tangled that most 
parents must struggle with feeling bewildered and lost. 
This book addresses itself to them, to the incredible 
isolation that new parents feel. /t is about the new forms 
of parenthood and families, shared parenting, communes, 
gay parents, lovers, single parents, and stepparents. 
Society does not automatically take care of us or our 
children. 
Families feel ignored as second class citizens 
among the growing population of childless adults. 
Child- 
ren in American today are treated with suspicion, fear, 
over-control, and mindless criticism on a mass level. 
Raising kids is a potent force in our personal development, 
part teaching, part Zen kamikaze future dabbling, part 
pure survival. 
Parents often need help getting through 
the crises and despair, the isolation and entanglements. 
They need to hear the groans and cries of joy from other 
parents who are, after all, just kids too, all learning 
the Great Game together, growing up together. Parents 
have parents too. 
/n the endless cycle, the beat goes on. 
The authors have written collectively, collaborating on 
the whole, yet individualizing their experiences. 
(They 
also did Our Bodies, Ourselves, p. 344.) The impact of 
simple truths, realized collectively, illuminates the 
message in this work. 
It is feminist, it is full of love, 
it is carefully considered, and right on the money. 
—Mountain Girl 
Ourselves and 
Our Children 
(A Book By 
and For Parents) 
Boston Women’s 
Health Book Collective 
1978; 288 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid from: 
Random House 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The early years are perhaps the most intense period of 
Parenting. They are both crazy and wonderful. 
In the 
middle of them you constantly think, I'll never, ever 
live through this. They are driving me nuts, draining 
me dry. Occasionally, something happens to let us 
know that we're different for having survived them — 
maybe better because of them. Having cared for our 
own kids through strained peaches and fevers and tan- 
trums and nightmares, we may have grown a capacity 
to notice and respond: 
| was shopping in the food co-op late one afternoon. 
There was a woman there with a child who was screaming 
with exhaustion. She was trying to weigh vegetables and 
tend the child all at once. The bag over the handles of 
the stroller was overloaded and threatened to tip the 
baby out onto the floor. All around her other adults 
went about their shopping as if nothing was happening. 
| don’t know how they could ignore her. 
I'd been 
there before and could remember what !'d wanted. 
| went over, and began to get the grocieries she still 
needed, while she picked up the baby and walked him 
round and round. 
In two minutes he was asleep and 
she could be at peace. 
The Parenting Advisor 
Infants and Mothers 
Advice and viewpoints on child rearing compiled from 
over 800 sources. A good resource if you feel you’d 
like to have more than one opinion. 
Topics covered 
range from medical advice to physiological and psycho- 
logical development, to modern aspects of parenting such 
as the changing role of the working mother. At the 
bookstore where my husband works, this is the number 
1 most-asked-for guide, even over Dr. Spock! 
—Evelyn Eldridge-Diaz 
The Parenting Advisor 
Frank Caplan, Editor 
1976; 569 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid from: 
Doubleday and Company 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Choosing a Pet 
If you want a pedigreed dog, locate a reputable breeding 
kennel. 
If you want a mongrel, try the pound. Since 
there are so many homeless cats, why not adopt one from 
your local animal shelter? 
Before you acquire a dog or cat, make sure your child is 
not allergic to animal fur. Let her handle the pet; if her 
face turns red or if she has a sudden coughing spell, you 
may have an allergic child. 
In that case, wait an hour or 
so to see if the symptoms persist. 
If you are in any 
doubt, consult with your doctor before buying a pet. 
Rodents are easily cared for and are clean and docile 
enough to be handled. They require less care than cats 
or dogs, are soft and warm, and make good companions 
for children. Their food requirements are simple: rabbits, 
guinea pigs, hamsters, mice and gerbils eat prepared food 
pellets, seeds, fruits, and vegetables. 
Rabbits are very gentle and love to be held and stroked. 
Indoors, their cage should be all-wire with a removable 
metal tray-type bottom for easy cleaning. 
If your rabbit 
is kept outdoors, it should live in a hutch constructed 
of wood, with a wire mesh floor and door, and an 
enclosed section that offers protection from severe 
weather conditions. 
Guinea pigs and mice are social animals; several of these 
can be caged together without fear of their fighting 
except during and right after pregnancy and birth. 
/f you buy only one book when your baby is born, it 
should be this one. Brazelton treats infants and their 
parents as individuals. 
Other books seem to assume that 
all newborns are pretty much alike; Brazelton shows 
that from birth each baby has its own style, its own pat- 
terns of activity and response. 
“The baby”’ in other 
books always made me uneasy because it never did the 
crazy things my baby did; but in Brazelton’s portraits 
of three types of babies and their parents | found glimpses 
of my daughter and myself that enlightened and com- 
forted me and helped me recognize and respect my 
child’s individual style. When her behavior bumped into 
my preconceptions, Brazelton reminded me that it was 
my expectations that were wrong, not the baby. 
Brazelton squashes the ideal mother myth. He recognizes 
that there are as many ways of parenting as there are 
parents. While he offers plenty of suggestions for dealing 
with specific problems, he also offers support for parents 
in finding their own best way. 
\nfants and Mothers 
is probably the most complete book on the first year of 
life. 
It covers the kind of information you find in Dr. 
Spock and is far more enjoyable to read. Brazelton 
has a second book, Toddlers and Parents, that dea/s with 
the second and third years. 
It’s also terrific; but l’m 
not reviewing it because once you've read his first book, 
you wont need any encouragement to pick up the second. 
—Linda Williams 
Infants and Mothers 
(Differences in 
Development) 
T. Berry Brazelton, M.D. 
1969; 296 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
Dell Publishing Company 
1 Dag Hammarskjold Plaza 
245 East 47th Street 
New York, NY 10017 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
fife a fol Pee 
7 
@ tii 
‘ 
HY ARE THESE four the most popular books on child rearing? What they have in 
common Is that each reports warmly a wide range of actual family experience — 
different kinds of kids, parents, situations, what seems to work and what doesn't. 
This is practical advice from peers, minus experts or ideology (or all that but not 
the paid kind). Parents encouraging and helping each other — in the books it’s 
right useful, around you in life it’s even better. 
—SB 
Kids: Day In and Day Out 
A wonderful big fat book containing a tremendous 
amount of good ideas and advice for parents. Much of 
the information is quite good and some pieces of advice 
are completely contradictory to others — a piece advising 
never to strike your child next to one which describes 
exactly how to hit your kid. 
It gives one the liberating 
feeling that there is no “one right way,” no formula for 
successful child rearing. Whatever choices are made must 
simply be appropriate to the particular parents and 
children involved. A fascinating, helpful book. 
—Lewis Engel 
Kids: Day In 
and Day Out 
(A parents’ manual) 
Elisabeth Scharlatt, Editor 
1979; 531 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
Simon and Schuster 
Attn: Order Department 
1230 Avenue 
of the Americas 
New York, NY 10020 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
How can you tell if a toy is too small to be trusted in 
the hands of a child under three years of age? According 
to the Toy Manufacturers of America, a plaything pre- 
sents an unacceptable risk of being swallowed if it fits, 
“‘in an uncompressed state,” inside a ‘’truncated right 
cylinder’’ with these dimensions. 
The truncated right cylinder. A Big Bird finger puppet 
passes with flying colors, buta sterling silver Tiffany yo-yo 
fails to make the grade. 
(No need to fret: if you’ve passed 
your third birthday, you're entitled to use the yo-yo.) 
e 
Try a Little Craziness 
I've found that when a kid is acting in a really irrational 
way, it’s pointless to be rational. You have to do some- 
thing just as crazy. Once my friend's child was having 
a terrible temper tantrum and was kicking and screaming 
and totally uncontrollable. 
Finally | took her in my 
arms, wrapped her in a towel like a straightjacket, carried 
her into the bathroom, and sprinkled water on her. She 
was so startled she just looked at me and said, ‘Why 
did you do that?”’ And | said, ‘‘Because | didn’t know 
what else to do.’’ Then | asked her what she would have 
done if | had been kicking and screaming like that. She 
thought for a minute — and had no answer. We laughed 
about it and a few minutes later she asked, ‘‘Would 
you do that again?” 
She still says to me (two years later) ‘‘Remember that 
time you wrapped me ina towel?’’ And we laugh. 
e 
The Mother Strike 
One of my most strategic mother-moves is to go on strike. 
A strike is better than “I’m going to have a nervous 
breakdown,” ‘cause they know you ain't about to have 
a breakdown without a sitter... 
. 
About my strikes. 
First | make sure there’s enough food 
in the refrigerator and all the clothes are clean. And 
you can’t strike when one of the children has acold.... 
While on strike, it’s a good idea to wear something flashy 
... 1 have a red mini dress | wear each time ‘cause it 
dazzles them. Stay on strike ‘til you get a definite com- 
mitment on things like sweeping the floor, making beds 
without being told, watering the plants, etc. 
|e 
ce 
All of these bits of play at feeding time may be exas- 
perating for a mother who is ina hurry. They are solid 
gold for the infant. 
It is his most receptive time. His 
physiological needs are being met. He is ina 
satisfied, 
receptive state, and each experience that occurs at this 
time must take on a heightened value. A baby savoring 
these moments is like a chubby old man savoring his 
cigar at the end of a delicious, filling meal. 
