i 
Rank upon rank they stood and sang. 
It was not 
an irreverent vision. I wept again, suddenly and 
feverishly homesick for someplace too far away 
to recall. The music ended and the sun burst 
unbearably on my eyes. 
“Here, it’s too bright. It hurts her eyes...” 
yeotevenan. all night..- doctor... 
4 
The curtains closed mercifully. I slept again. 
I woke in the familiar whiteness of a hospital 
room. There were no books. The nurses were 
professionally cool. I had only to lie passively and 
recover. The nurse looked at me oddly when I 
asked about the people who brought me in. 
“Oh, they’re OK. Paid your room, so’s you 
wouldn’t be treated like welfare.” 
I took the hint and reached for my purse to dig 
out insurance cards. Everything was tiring. I 
slept and woke. 
“Are we up to having visitors this afternoon? 
It’s the fellow that brought you in.” 
Finally I was to meet my unknown benefactors. 
But no. She ushered in a kid wearing baggy over- 
alls. He had a scraggly beard and long hair, which 
curled from under a dirty, loose-knit tam-o-shanter. 
He wore a row of ball-point pens clipped to the 
pocket of his denim shirt. He introduced himself, 
holding out a crusted hand. There were furrows 
between the long muscles of his arm. “They said 
you were awake so we thought we’d see how 
you’re doing. You sure look better than when 
we found you...” 
“Found me?” 
“Yeah. You were really out, you know. You 
must of got lost up on the old logging roads. You 
were lying in your car there at the end of the road 
by a unit in Alsea we’re planting. That’s where 
we found you.” 
“We 10195) 
“Hoedads. Tree planters.” He grinned and 
perched comfortably on the foot of the bed, 
knocking dry mud off his cleated boots before 
resting them on the frame. ‘You don’t come 
from around here. Say, I parked your car in the 
lot. Rented, isn’t it? You’re low on gas. Had her 
running all night, I guess — lights were on, too, 
and your door was open. The nurse says she got 
your clothes dry OK, though.” 
He explained about the Hoedads, as you have told 
in your articles. We talked of labor-intensive 
agriculture and forestry, economics, the second 
law of thermodynamics, decentralization, child- 
rearing, sun-worship and vegetarian diets. 
It was 
exhilarating. Like playing tennis with someone 
better than yourself, I found I remembered and 
understood much that I hadn’t given thought to 
in years. He pointed out the window at a truck 
in the parking lot. A small boy sat in the driver’s 
seat, pretending to drive it. A woman dressed 
in the same overalls and denim shirt stood next to 
it with another man wearing an old fatigue jacket 
and a cowboy hat. A child sat on his shoulders, 
waving a pinwheel. The side of the truck was 
emblazoned with gaudy letters, like a carnival van: 
CHEAP THRILLS 
Fast, deep, and often 
Reforestation 
I glanced back at him, and his eyes twinkled. Nice 
blue eyes behind all that grubby beard. 
“We all got our own names,” he said. ‘Each 
crew, I mean” 
I laughed and choked, and he slapped my back. 
I tried to explain what had happened to me in 
the night: the stone house, the ducks in the yard, 
the solicitous couple, the vision of the singers, 
how real it had all seemed. He listened, his eyes 
wide with interest. 
“Yeah, I can believe it. You know once when I 
was at Yale —” 
“Yale!” 
“You mean you can’t tell?”” He looked pleased. 
“Usually people spot it — the way you talk or 
hitch up your socks or something — it takes years 
to get rid of it, like a disease. Well, once when I 
was there I got so drunk at the Harvard-Yale game 
I passed out in the men’s room at the stadium 
and got locked in there. I woke up in the pitch 
dark — I mean I didn’t know there could be 
darkness so dark, it was like absolute nothingness. 
I couldn’t tell if my eyes were open or shut. I 
was lying there on a damp concrete floor and 
there was this terrible smell. I thought I'd been 
buried alive. All of a sudden it seemed as if I 
LEARNING 
AX STORIES 
could remember the whole thing — the doctors, 
the stethoscopes, my parents weeping, the hearse 
ride, the coffin lowered into this grave. I really 
remembered it, every bit. I tried to yell but my 
throat was too dry. I put my hand out and it 
landed on the slimy wall of the urinal — ugh! 
Stygian, I can tell you. I couldn’t think what it 
was. Then I thought I was blind...” 
“But what did you do?” 
“Figured it out finally, and got to thinking about 
the Harvard man and the Yale man taking a leak 
— you don’t know that one? 
— the Yale man says, 
‘At Yale they teach us to wash our hands after 
we urinate.” And the Harvard man says ‘At 
Harvard they teach us not to piss on our hands.’ 
I laughed so hard thinking about it I got sick. I 
sobered up finally and felt around for a window 
and climbed out. I didn’t do a whole lot of 
drinking after that...” 
He stood up. “Well, I’m glad you’re OK. We’re 
movin’ on to a new unit tonight. I can fill your 
tank for you, though, before we go. It’s a gypsy 
kind of life .. .”» He paused in the doorway. 
“You know, it all seems so real because it is real, 
the music and everything, it’s all part of what you 
know already. You really thought you were in 
a cathedral somewheres when we found you. And 
on the way in you said something really far out.” 
“J did?” 
“Yeah. I remember it, it was so far out. You sat 
up all of a sudden like and said, ‘Oh god, I have 
lived too long in cities of the West.’ Loud and 
clear you said that, and then you went to sleep 
again.”’ He smiled and held up his hand. 
‘‘Well, 
take care, Mother.” 
I spent the rest of that hospital stay with a collec- 
tion of real estate catalogues. In what strange 
ways we make our new beginnings! 
® 
ee 
gilt 
Sac 
“Everywhere I go, I find a poet has been there 
before me.” 
—Freud 
: 
551 
