Free to Choose 
The exquisite balance of nature, the complex ecology we 
admire, is based largely on competition expressed in con- 
stant individual deaths and sufferings and the survival of 
optimal genes. 
In a market economy, it is mostly prices 
that suffer, die, and converge to optimums. 
Centrally 
planned economies, by contrast, have all the elegance and 
self-regulating capabilities of cornfields. 
Givens are seldom well-defended. 
Given a largely market 
7 
economy, it is remarkable it has a defender as capable as 
Milton Friedman. He is an astute analyst, a highly effi- 
SB 
BARS 
Free to Choose 
(A Personal Statement) 
Milton and Rose 
Friedman 
1980; 338 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Harcourt Brace and 
Jovanovich 
757 Third Avenue 
New York, NY 10017 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Seu 
cient expounder, and, most amazing, has good ideas of 
his own 
— from the monetarism that got him his Nobel 
Prize to his voucher system for rejuvenating education. 
The usual situation with such characters is that their 
wisdom is spread thin over dozens of books. 
Thanks to 
having his ideas star in a TV series on PBS in 1980, 
Milton and Rose Friedman put it all together in one 
accessible book. Whose price is right, a bargain for 
the value. 
—SB 
Economic freedom is an essential requisite for political 
freedom. By enabling people to cooperate with one 
another without coercion or central direction, it reduces 
the area over which political power is exercised. 
In addi- 
tion, by dispersing power, the free market provides an 
offset to whatever concentration of political power may 
arise. The combination of economic and political power 
in the same hands is a sure recipe for tyranny. 
e 
Prices perform three functions in organizing economic 
activity: first, they transmit information; second, they 
provide an incentive to adopt those methods of produc- 
tion that are least costly and thereby use available 
resources for the most highly valued purposes; third, 
they determine who gets how much of the product — 
the distribution of income. 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
ECONOMICS 
39 
e 
Most economists agree that a far better way to control 
pollution than the present method of specific regulation 
and supervision is to introduce market discipline by 
imposing effluent charges. For example, instead of 
requiring firms to erect specific kinds of waste disposal 
plants or to achieve a specified level of water quality in 
water discharged into a lake or river, impose a tax of a 
specified amount per unit of effluent discharged. That 
way, a firm would have an incentive to use the cheapest 
way to keep down the effluent. 
Equally important, that 
way there would be objective evidence of the costs of 
reducing pollution. 
If a small tax led to a large reduc- 
tion, that would be a clear indication that there is little 
to gain from permitting the discharge. On the other 
hand, if even a high tax left much discharge, that would 
indicate the reverse, but also would provide substantial 
sums to compensate the losers or undo the damage. The 
tax rate itself could be varied as experience yielded infor- 
mation on costs and gains. 
Like regulations, an effluent charge automatically puts 
the cost on the users of the products responsible for the 
pollution. Those products for which it is expensive to 
reduce pollution would go up in price compared to those 
for which it is cheap, just as now those products on which 
regulations impose heavy costs go up in price relative to 
others. The output of the former would go down, of the 
latter up. The difference between the effluent charge and 
the regulations is that the effluent charge would control 
pollution more effectively at lower cost, and impose 
fewer burdens on nonpolluting activities. 
The Breakdown of Nations 
The Overdeveloped Nations 
A lovely, early book, now restored to print, about pathol- 
ogy and health in national scale. 
/t merges very nicely 
with recent thought about bioregional politics. And, boy, 
does it explain handily the centuries and centuries of 
tribal stability in pre-white California, with its 26 
language groups and innumerable tribelets. Herman Kahn 
likes to remark that the only discernible function of a 
nation state is to wage war. Small nations make small 
wars, Kohr would doubtless reply. 
—SB 
The Breakdown 
of Nations 
Leopold Kohr 
1978; 250 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
E.P. Dutton and Company 
Two Park Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Unsuccessful federation. Were America organized as 
here, on the pattern of Europe’s simplified, but unequally 
large blocks, Washington would be a purely decorative 
centre as Geneva was for the League of Nations. To 
enforce its authority it would have to ask the support 
of one or more of the powerful members. Wars would 
be as frequent as in Europe. 
con 
The purely geometrical 
As on the preceding map 
America is shown ‘simplified’ 
in European style, the har- 
mony and balance of its 48 
states destroyed, this map 
shows Europe divided in 
American style. The arro- 
gant, uncooperative, proud, 
self-glorifying nations (great 
Powers) have given way ‘to 
small states which could as 
easily be ruled by Geneva as 
the U.S. is ruled by Washing- 
ton. A successful power 
maniac would be as harmless 
for the rest as Huey Long. 
> 
division of America would, 
however, have to be modi- 
Kohr’s thesis is that when societies outgrow a certain 
critical size (15 million members), the problems they 
insurmount become inherent and insoluble consequences 
of that overgrowth. He deals with nations as having 
personality, and makes an excellent critique of Develop- 
ment in those terms. He argues frequently by analogy, 
and his theory stands up nicely throughout; it has the 
virtue of being the simplest possible explanation of the 
inability of mega-states to provide for the summum 
bonum of their members. 
It also explains the inexorable 
collectivization of even capitalist/individualist societies. 
/f, like me, you hope that nothing succeeds like secession, 
read The Overdeveloped Nations. 
Then send a copy to 
your Congressman. 
—Stephanie Mills 
The Overdeveloped 
Nations 
(The Diseconomies 
of Scale) 
Leopold Kohr 
1977; 185 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Schocken Books 
200 Madison Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
A change in the velocity of money has the same effect as 
if the quantity of money had changed. As an inflation 
may thus be caused quantitatively, by an increase in the 
supply of money, it may also be caused qualitatively, by 
an increase in the money’s velocity. 
The richest German regions are to this day those which 
until not so long ago were the small sovereign states of 
Hamburg, Bremen, Frankfort, Hesse, Wurtemberg, Bavaria 
Bavaria, Saxony rather than the large power of Prussia. 
Historically smallness, even in the absence of natural 
resources, can thus hardly be considered an obstacle 
preventing countries from getting rich. On the contrary. 
e 
Whatever the new nations are gaining in development, 
they seem to be losing in identity. 
fied in Europe along the traditional tribal frontiers. This map shows 
approximately the genuine component parts of Europe, historically 
subdividing the great powers, products not of nature but of force. 
Being all equal in size they are ideally fit to form a successful 
federation. Thus Europe’s problem — as that of any federation — 
is one of division, not of union. 
Wigiiehele 
#8 
(616) 
© 
6.6 
.6.0;S 
@10e 
© 9 6 
06.8 
69 
© 86 
0 8 6 
6\0 
4 
Development Without Aid 
Development Without Aid shou/d be required reading for 
all the overpaid UN, USA/D, and World Bank function- 
aries who seem to be hell bent on homogenizing the world’s 
peoples through the sinister tactic of help. Leopold Kohr 
argues that a bootstrap approach is the only way to build 
authentic national identity and true prosperity; he pro- 
poses a lean “development” or “preventive” communism 
as the pull. Thus the why and how of saying no to inter- 
national welfare statism. 
Cultural diversity and tradi- 
tional approaches to subsistence are the happy outcomes. 
Like Kohr’s Overdeveloped Nations, /t’s a sensible book. 
Kohr's arguments against a multinational grants economy 
have sensual appeal. A courtly and charming man whose 
writing embodies his character, Kohr rightly delights in 
t 
the beauties of medieval squares, the leisurely pace of 
underdevelopment, and the unenriched flavors of regional 
cuisine. 
Kohr’s thinking on development proceeds from 
the known; it has human dimension and is humanly 
Possible. 
He taught E.F. Schumacher a /ot. Imagine 
what he has to offer the rest of us. 
—Stephanie Mills 
Development 
Without Aid 
(The Translucent 
Society) 
Leopold Kohr 
1973; 227 pp. 
$12.95 postpaid from: 
Schocken Books 
200 Madison Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
| have often been tempted to work out the comparative 
costs for a series of basic living standard items involving 
a slightly enlarged set of at least three regions: the Soviet 
Union, the United States, and a paradisiacal Primitive 
village such as Loiza Aldea on the north coast of Puerto 
Rico, or any similar village you might tink of in Bali, 
Ecuador, or Anguilla. Having not done so yet, | am lack- 
ing exact figures. Perhaps a sumptuous Ford grant can 
correct the situation. 
But, in the meantime, | feel confi- 
dent that my findings would show approximately 
the following: 
If it takes 15 years to acquire a unit of dwelling in the 
Soviet Union, and 5 in the United States, the cost in 
Loiza Aldea is probably in the neighbourhood of 2 weeks. 
Thus, if the American housing standard is 3 times higher 
than the Russian, the standard of Loiza Aldea is 140 
times higher than the American, and 420 times higher 
than the Russian. 
© Oto. s -0)\s 86 (a) 8 10) a 
@ be 
ee 
@ oe 
Be iele © ae, 
ike we © 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
© 
sly, 
Susan points out that another important lesson of 
being a preacher’s kid is that whenever vacation is 
finally planned and definite, especially a good one 
like the eternally planned trip 
to the Smokies, 
someone will die and Dad will have to stay to do 
the funeral and that will be that. 
My, 
RZ 
Marvin Hatcher, the hardware store man, doesn’t 
believe in sales tax, so he doesn’t charge it, 
just pays it. 
Lr UT 
Oy) | 
Ties 
On 
Cer 
