The start of the belly. 
Wool Away 
The book for the inexperienced (not the unexperienced) 
as well as the accomplished sheep shearer. Godfrey 
Bowen, a world renowned shearer, goes into depth in his 
coverage of the shearing of sheep. He has a “blow-by-blow” 
account of shearing a sheep complete with photographs of 
each step, discusses shearing gear in terms of the proper 
use and care of the equipment, gives a good discussion on 
the breeds of sheep, and he even talks of the correct 
diet and dress of the sheep shearer. He then takes the 
reader into a totally new world of sheep shearing compe- 
titions. 
There is a bit of a problem with many 
colloquial 
terms, but Bowen realizes this and has provided the reader 
with a glossary. Allin all, truly the book for those 
really into sheep. 
—Carol Mortensen 
Wool Away 
(The Art and Technique 
of Shearing) 
Godfrey Bowen 
1974; 192 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Van Nostrand Reinhold Co. 
Order Department 
7625 Empire Drive 
Florence, KY 41042 
~ 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
A good shearer can be likened to a good billiards player — 
he won't make one shot unless the next one is waiting. 
Have your sheep moving into position the whole time. 
This is especially important in machine shearing, as posi- 
tion and the lie of the sheep is everything. 
In controlling 
sheep watch balance. Sheep and shearer between them 
make up approximately three hundred pounds weight. 
They are either on balance or off. Keep the legs apart, 
get down over your sheep, becoming almost part of it, 
and handle it with body co-ordination resembling a grace- 
ful slow waltzing movement. 
It will take young shearers 
years to get this but it is the goal to aim at. 
~ CRAFT 
SPINNING 
Fleece in Your Hands 
A classic, back in print. For years it was a xeroxed “hand- 
to-hand” among spinners. Describes general wool charac- 
teristics of a sheepbreed and its texture, gives tips for 
spinning it, and then sets out instructions for a project 
(knitted, woven, crocheted, etc.) appropriate to that 
fleece. 
Timeless and invaluable — even the projects are 
superb, | wish it had reached my hands, not just my ears, 
years sooner. 
—Diana Sloat 
Fleece in Your Hands 
(Spinning with a purpose: 
Notes and Projects) 
Beverly Horne 
1979; 69 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid from: 
Interweave Press, Inc. 
306 North Washington St. 
Loveland, CO 80537 
Romney. The Romney was brought to New Zealand in 
1853 from the south of England and quickly established 
itself under New Zealand conditions to become the most 
predominant breed of sheep and probably the most 
familiar and popular breed for spinners. 
It produces a 
heavy quality fleece but many spinners do not realize 
the many possibilities of this breed and the count range 
it covers. 
It is the most versatile available to spinners 
.. 
. 
Recommended Uses. A good, general purpose wool for 
children’s to high-fashion garments. One of the most 
versatile New Zealand breeds. Has a nice lustre, washes 
and wears well. Can be spun into many types of yarns: 
thick or thin, novelty yarns, warp yarns, worsted yarns or 
woolen yarns. A weight loss after washing 10% and a 
take-up of only 3/4-1” per yard, makes this a good wool 
for weaving. 
It dyes well without uncontrolled matting. 
British Sheep Breeds 
Fleece from different breeds differs widely in qualities of 
the fiber, in how it feels, works up, and how it can be used. 
For me, the breeds would be a jumble of random names 
without this book and its samples. Now when a catalog 
arrives | read the description, “fine Romney top,” look at 
the sheep portrait, fee/ the sample, dream a /ittle, plan 
the project and then order. 
It’s particularly important 
now that most of us live a continent or two away from 
the source of the fibers we spin. 
The British Wool Marketing Board will sell you on the 
utility, diversity, and romance of wool in delightfully 
glossy language and paper. They've been spinning, weaving, 
knitting and crocheting with wool for a long time. 
British Sheep Breeds 
The British Wool 
Marketing Board 
1976; 80 pp. 
$7.40 postpaid from: 
Handcraft Wools, Ltd. 
Box 378 
Streetsville, Ontario 
Canada L5M 2B9 
Fleece samples 
write to inquire 
price from: 
British Wool 
Marketing Board 
Kew Bridge House 
Kew Bridge Road 
Brentford, Middlesex 
England TW8 OEL 
Sheep have been a familiar sight on Romney Marsh since 
the thirteenth century or earlier. The bleak climate of the 
area and the perennial rye grass and wild white clover 
pastures have no doubt combined to develop the tough 
constitution of the Romney breed as we know it today. 
They are big, sturdy, fine-looking animals, with unusually 
hard hooves which enable them to resist foot rot and 
survive successfully in marshy conditions. A further 
special characteristic is their habit of spreading out evenly 
over the available grazing area, and so making the best 
possible use of the pasture. The breed has also become 
established in many countries overseas, especially in 
New Zealand. Romney wool is denser and finer than that 
of other Birtish Longwool breeds, and it has a decided 
crimp. Demand for this wool is always high and it is used 
in the manufacture of a wide range of high quality 
products, including hosiery and hand-knitting wools, 
worsted cloth, woollen cloth, blankets, and carpets. 
Feltmaking 
“Fanciful and functional” — best description of this 
delightful book to carry one well past the stomping stage 
into art for the body or house. (You could make your 
own weatherstripping, but...) 
—Diana Sloat 
Felt is a pressed, matted fabric formed by the interlocking 
of certain unspun fibers, most notably wool. No spinning, 
weaving, or knitting is involved. Rather, through a com- 
bination of heat, moisture, and_pressure, each individual 
fiber becomes completely entangled with the other fibers 
around it. The tangled mass forms a natural, self- 
tightening, fe/ted mat. 
Laying the Batt. 
Lay the rolags or batts next to one 
another on a piece of nylon mosquito netting. They 
should overlap slightly at the edges. Lay the second layer 
of rolags so it is 90 degrees, or perpendicular, to the first 
layer. All subsequent layers should be put on in alternate 
directions: 
the third layer perpendicular to the second, 
and so on. 
Feltmaking 
Beverly Gordon 
1980; 152 pp. 
$1 7.50 postpaid from: 
Watson Guptill Publications 
2160 Patterson Street 
Cincinnati, OH 45214 
The Incredible Rope Machine 
Why braid when you can twist? You can make a living 
with this little gadget — try rugs. 
This one works the best 
of those | ‘ve seen. 
—Diana Sloat 
The Incredible 
Rope Machine 
$1 5 postpaid from: 
Schacht Spindle 
Company 
2526 49th Street 
P.O. Box 2157 
Boulder, CO 80306 
+ 
Cloverleaf Rope 
Rug by Gale Litvak 
leew 
eevee 
ee 
ee 
eeeeeeseeeeves 
Handspinning Cotton 
/f you already spin, here’s a very good ““how-to” for 
preparing and spinning cotton, and (equally important) 
handling it after the spinning’s done — sizing, dying, 
warping and weaving it. Plans for Harry Linder’s simple, 
excellent Pakistani wheel are included. 
—Diana Sloat 
$6.25 postpaid from: 
The Cotton Squares 
1347 East San Miguel Ave. 
Phoenix, AZ 85014 
Handspinning Cotton 
Olive and Harry Linder 
1977; 50 pp. 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
The difference between spinning and weaving is 
you take a big bunch and turn it into a fine line, 
then you take a fine line and turn it into a big 
bunch. Spinning is the first and weaving is 
p the second. 
—Kathleen 
28! 
Se 
arene Sea 
