The Solar Room 
The Food and Heat Producing 
Solar Greenhouse 
In the four years this book has been available, it has 
become the one where you Jook first. For good reason 
too — somebody or other has actually done what’s shown, 
and there’s a lot shown. More than shown, really, because 
there’s also lots of how and why too. And a good biblio- 
graphy with comment. And good photographs of proven 
details. And step-by-step instruction on both building 
and operating. 
In fact, the book is a marvel. Lots of 
love in it. 
—J. Baldwin 
The 1980 revised edition deepens the marvel. 
For 
most homes solar greenhouses are the way to go. With Steve 
Baer’s Big Fin (p. 190) you even get hot water easy. 
The Food and Heat 
Producing Solar 
Greenhouse 
(Design, Construction 
& Operation) 
Rick Fisher and 
Bill Yanda 
1976, 1980; 208 pp. 
$8 postpaid from: 
John Muir Publications 
P.O. Box 613 
Santa Fe, NM 87501 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Lhe 
Since the first edition of this book, the Solar Room has 
proven itself to be one of the best buys in ‘‘BTUs for the 
buck’. 
Literally millions of American homes could save 
heating dollars immediately by the installation of a 
Solar Room. 
Here is Steve Kenin’s explanation of his product: 
“The Solar Room is a device that turns the southern side 
of a home into a solar heater. Made of a special plastic, 
a Solar Room can supply 35% to 65% of home space 
heating needs. With heat storage and insulation options, 
its heating capacity is greatly increased. The Solar Room 
is available in kit form and is designed to be an exterior 
room, seven feet wide and as long as space permits; 
20, 30 or 40 feet. The longer the Solar Room, the more 
heat is collected. 
“Not only a heat collector, the Solar Room is a versatile, 
inexpensive addition to the home, costing $3.50 to $4.50 
per square foot of floor space. 
It is an airtight, thermally 
efficient space, and can serve as a greenhouse, a winter 
playroom for children or as a foyer to the house where 
coats, boots and bicycles can be stored out of the winter 
weather. Asagreenhouse, 
the Solar Room is an especially 
efficient space, providing warmth for the household and 
fresh vegetables for the dinner table. In the spring the 
garden can be started early in the greenhouse and trans~- 
planted outside when danger of frost is past. 
e 
The Solar Fan made by the William Lamb Co. is a high 
quality air mover powered by a small photovoltaic array. 
The company sells it primarily as an attic ventilator, but 
it is perfect for a small greenhouse. The 12-volt D.C. 
unit can push over 600 cfm quietly and dependably. 
In the exhaust mode, it is moving air out of the green- 
house in the summer. Come fall, when heat is needed 
by the office, the fan is pivoted 90° to blow apex green- 
house air to the back room fifteen feet away. The third 
mode is a switch that directs the power down a line to 
charge a 12-volt battery. The attribute | enjoy most 
about the fan is its high quality. There's nothing second 
rate about it. The heavy little motor runs without a 
sound and must have sealed bearings because | can’t find 
anywhere to oil it. (| don’t anticipate the need, either.) 
The photovoltaic array is totally sealed against weathering. 
Finally, a built-in feature makes the unit unique. Because 
it is linked directly to the sun, the Solar Fan regulates 
itself. The fan works the hardest when the sun is brightest. 
So it’s going full tilt ona bright day to charge an adjoining 
room or exhaust outdoors. When it gets cloudy, the Solar 
Fan slows down or stops completely. 
It's like having a 
tiny little brain linking the power of the sun to the 
spinning of a fan blade — for your benefit. Both of 
these products demonstrate remarkable and totally 
beneficial use of technology. 
Publishing Company 
wind direction 
& anemometer 
concrete block 
reflector/insulator 
L] 
Hy 
hati 
concrete block 
refiector/insulator 
insulation & siding on ends 
Illustrated is the solar chimney of the Ecotope group. 
Only the south side of the twelve-foot stack is glazed, 
with the rest sheathed solidly. 
It is designed to provide 
ventilation of 900 cubic feet per minute on a summer 
day — the equivalent of a sizeable greenhouse fan — 
without using any electrical power. 
The Complete Greenhouse Book 
Much more of an overall look at greenhouse operation 
than The Food and Heat Producing Solar Greenhouse. 
Virtually everything is looked at — the building (including 
solar aspects), plants, pest management. 
It’s one of the 
several new books pointing the way towards a more 
useful concept of ““greenhouse.”” Handsome and well 
—J. Baldwin 
done in every way. 
The Complete 
Greenhouse Book 
(Building and Using 
Greenhouses from 
Cold Frames to 
Solar Structures) 
Peter Clegg and 
Derry Watkins 
1978; 280 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Garden Way 
Charlotte, VT 05545 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The Solar Greenhouse Book 
Every gardener dreams of a year-round harvest, and the 
best way to get it without moving to Hawaii is with a 
solar greenhouse. 
This book has good technical data for 
the early stages of planning, including assessment of 
glazing materials, estimating heat loss, and sun path 
diagrams, as well as construction details and plenty of 
pictures of completed greenhouses that can’t help but 
give you some new ideas no matter how long you ‘ve been 
designing the project. And when the building is done, 
there’s advice that will reduce considerably your first 
year trial and error agonies — everything from when seed 
should be sown to the particular requirements each crop 
has when it’s grown under glass. 
—Dick Fugett 
The Solar 
Greenhouse Book 
James C. McCullagh, 
Editor 
1978; 328 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Rodale Books 
33 East Minor 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Microclimatic zones can occur in the passive greenhouse. 
They will change slightly with the seasons: the rear is 
shaded in the summer and the area near the glazing can 
become quite cold on winter nights. Circulating the air 
will reduce temperature differences between regions. 
a 
ee FT 
Solar Living and Solar Greenhouse Digest 
Any 
idea whose time has come needs a forum where the 
latest information can be shared and discussed, and here 
itis. Early issues are chatty, knowledgeable, useful, 
and getting better. 
Bill Yanda is involved, along with 
many others who have been doing the solar greenhouse 
bit for some time now. 
—J. Baldwin 
[Suggested by Chris Winne] 
Solar Living and Solar 
Greenhouse Digest 
Twila de Vries, Editor 
$1 O/year (6 issues) 
from: 
Solar Greenhouse Digest 
P.O. Box 2626 
Flagstaff, AZ 86003 
e 
Why must ducts always be opaque? 
Let's treat ourselves 
to the fun of seeing air zipping along the duct — visually 
verifying the whole solar heating system is working by the 
use of transparent ducts. 
¢ Transparent ducts should be used in a greenhouse or living 
room of a house that has a big, integral south-facing 
greenhouse and a big thermal mass in the basement. 
e Transport hot air from the top of the greenhouse to the 
thermal mass via a vertical or near vertical transparent 
duct which contains ribbons, paper streamers, rotable 
pinwheel whorls or other mobile ornaments. 
¢ As the air travels, the ribbons dance in a colorful manner. 
The Glass House 
“Greenhouse,” that is. Plants generally require much 
more sophisticated control of their environment than do 
humans, and so it isn’t surprising that horticu/turists 
know more about artificial climate than do architects. 
This elegant book reveals that much of the knowledge 
needed for the design of solar houses and “biospheres”’ 
has been known for more than 100 years! | was also 
quite surprised to find out how large some of the indoor 
agricultural projects were and are; for instance there are 
more than 17,000 acres of greenhouse in use today in the 
Netherlands. 
Mr. Hix doesn’t furnish us with thermal 
performance figures, but he includes a juicy bibliography 
and a glittering collection of sharp photographs and 
drawings. A real find for indoor food-raisers and solar 
house designers. 
—J. Baldwin 
[Suggested by Day Charoudi] 
The Glass House 
John Hix 
1974; 208 pp. 
$25 postpaid from: 
The MIT Press 
28 Carleton Street 
Cambridge, MA 02142 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
UR 
Palms in the dome of the winter garden, Laeken Palace, 
Brussels (1876). 
er er ee ee 
‘THE RISING SUN 
‘ NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
uy 
- 
ye 
Sie you notice that all the leaders who might make 
oe 
ee 
ee 
eeee 
things better get shot you can: 
1. Assume their deaths were no coincidence 
and give up; 
2. Spend years proving their deaths were 
no coincidence and trying to convince 
others of same; 
3. Need leaders less. 
SOFT TECHNOLOGY 
SOLAR GREENHOUSES 
WW 
