478 
COMMUNICATIONS 
ELECTRONIC MUSIC 
Elec 
1 
e 
E “ctr 
Mus 
onic 
Mu Sixt onic 
Synthesize,, Synthesiz.,.Synthesiz., 
y 
by Bernard L. Krause 
PARASOUND, INC. 
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA 
if you go to movies or hear pop music, you've been 
listening to Bernie Krause for a long time. He’s scored 
or participated in the sound tracks of dozens of major 
films and TV shows and side-manned with all the top 
pop groups. Lately he also hangs out musically and 
academically (Ph.D. in progress) with whales and 
dolphins. As knowledgeable a word on electronic 
music as we’re likely to find. 
-SB 
1TH THE ADVENT OF CONTEMPORARY 
synthesizers fifteen years ago, composers or 
sonic artists found that the old definitions of 
music had evolved to mean control of sound. All the 
parameters of sound became controllable: (1) pitch or 
frequency, (2) loudness or amplitude, (3) color or timbre, 
and (4) time/amplitude or envelope or gate. An entire 
expanded range of sound and aural subtlety was opened 
up to the sonic artist. 
The concepts of modular instruments and vo/tage-control, 
developed at about the same time in the 1960s on the 
East Coast by Robert Moog and in the West by Donald 
Buchla, represented two major developments which 
helped lead to the wide acceptability of the analog sys- 
tems in both academic and commercial music environ- 
ments. 
However, analog systems, while still popular, 
contain within them many limitations. 
In context of the 
more recent digital technology, the sonic artist has 
available even greater Jatitudes of expression — cleaner 
and more accurate reproduction of aural visions and infor- 
mation storage capabilities heretofore unavailable in the 
analog precedents. 
It is quickly coming to pass that many 
of the constrictions extant in the former systems have 
now been mitigated and much, much more is promised 
for the 1980s. 
In this survey | wish only to touch on some of the 
available analog and digital instruments in several price 
ranges with a brief discussion of some of the outstanding 
features of each. 
Because of time and space there will be 
no attempt to be comprehensive. 
Most of my comments 
will be based on field reports of users and dealers of 
currently available instruments and apply to those which 
best represent quality technology, human engineering, 
field service, overall value, and imaginative function 
concepts. Since prices are so volatile these days, only 
general ranges will be mentioned, leaving the kind and 
ever-curious reader the option of pursuing the matter 
directly with the various companies where further 
in-depth information is sought. 
A few caveats however, if you plan on buying a synthesizer. 
Play the instruments yourself or have them demonstrated 
by one who really knows what variables to look for. 
Each instrument brand has its own unique sound and 
playing characteristics. 
Be certain that you can live with 
your purchase, particularly if you are spending upwards 
of $1500 on your system. Also, you might want to make 
sure that the system you're investing in is serviceable. 
UNDER $200 
Casiotone 10, Casio, Inc., 15 Gardner Road, Fairfield, 
NJ 07006. Casio, the pocket calculator company, makes 
this item. 
This 32-key, 2% octave, 8-note polyphonic 
instrument has four voices cansisting of piano, organ, 
flute, and violin. 
It has a built-in speaker, is battery 
operated, weighs 4 pounds, and also comes with a 2-way 
AC/DC power source (household current or DC batteries). 
Casiotone 10 
$450 - $800 
Korg MS 10 & 20 Series, Unicord, 89 Frost Street, West- 
bury, NY 11590. Both are monophonic. 
The Model 10 
has one fully variable voltage Contro/ Oscillator 
(VCO) 
and the 20 has two. 
The 10 and 20 are completely open 
systems, meaning that they are expandable. 
The 20 has 
an External Signal Processor module which will allow any 
external instrument (or signal) to play it. This module 
will follow both envelope (amplitude/time functions), 
trigger and pitch of incoming signals. Both these instru- 
ments are flexible and just fine for education and 
limited studio work. Sequencers are optional. 
EVI (Electronic Valve Instrument), Steiner Instruments, 
2736 South 2700 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84119. Nyle 
Steiner of Steiner Instruments in Salt Lake City put this 
one together. 
It was used extensively on Francis Ford 
Coppola’s recent film, “Apocalypse Now,” and was 
designed for those who favor breath controlled instru- 
ments rather than keyboards. 
This means, of course, that 
any horn player can now play a synthesizer. 
The finger- 
ing is the same as for trumpet, tuba, or french horn. 
It 
is compatible with most synthesizers, has a seven-octave 
range without re-tuning and an over-all possible range of 
seventeen octaves! The EVI is designed so that the sonic 
energy spectrum changes in a manner similar to that of 
many 
acoustic instruments when played over a wide 
range. 
This instrument, because of its design, is probably 
the most expressive of the monophonic analog synthe- 
sizers, yet, in its basic form, comes in a compact case not 
much larger than that which holds a standard flute. 
Moog Prodigy, R.A. Moog, 2500 Walden Avenue, Buffalo, 
NY 14225. A closed system instrument, the Moog Prodigy 
is a quality performance system with the 4-pole (24 dB/ 
octave) filter that has made Moog instruments unique and 
outstanding in the field of analog audio subtleties. 
It is 
reliable and serviceable, but like all closed systems, limited. 
Casintone 
Casiotone 201 
Casiotone 201, Casio, Inc., 15 Gardner Road, Fairfield, 
NJ 07006. For a presettable, closed system instrument, 
this is one that a /ittle extra attention should be paid to. 
It contains 49 keys, four octaves, 8-note polyphony, and 
29 different voices (including different timbres of strings, 
winds, brass, organs and effects) that sound pretty real. 
It also has a pre-settable four-tone memory. 
Weighs 15 
pounds, is AC powered, and has an internal 2W speaker. 
$1000 - $2000 
Roland 100M Series, Roland Corporation, U.S., 2401 
Saybrook Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90040. /n the 
modular analog systems group of instruments currently 
on the market in this price range, few have the value and 
flexibility of this-well-thought-out series. 
The system is 
totally expandable and one can add a whole plethora of 
options such as keyboards, sequencers, a micro-processor 
(16 kilobyte capacity where 8 independent voices or up 
to 5200 single-voice notes can be programmed). 
Relative 
to the operator’s abilities, studio requirements, and 
budget, Roland offers as part of its package a complete 
semi-professional studio (sans tape recorders and boards) 
including equalizers, a phaser, vocoder, reverberation, 
echo, mixers and jack panels. 
= 
@ 
Nyle Steiner on EVI 
Yamaha CS 20, Yamaha International, P.O. Box 6600, 
Buena Park, CA 90622. Often referred to as a Mini-Moog 
with programming capabilities, this instrument is a single- 
voice, two-oscillator unit which is an eight-voice memory 
cassette interfaceable synthesizer. 
It has a 37-note key- 
board and is backed by Yamaha’s excellent field service 
reputation. 
It is well-built, reliable, and can stand some 
rough handling. A good performance instrument. 
$2000 - $5000 
OBX - Oberheim, Oberheim Electronics, Inc., 1549 9th 
Street, Santa Monica, CA 90401. The “Oberheim sound” 
is a standard in the world of disco and pop music these 
days. 
It seems to “cut” as they say, mostly because of 
the Oberheim 2-pole (12 dB/octave) filter. 
(A 4-pole 
24 dB/octave switch is available as an option.) The OBX 
is polyphonic and comes with a cassette interface for 
programming. 
It has a spring-loaded pitch band, a unique 
unison “fire-in-parallel” feature. 
It is an expandable, 
open system, and has the option of from 4 -8 voices by 
simply adding circuit boards. 
It tunes itself very quickly. 
Polyfusion 2000 
$7000 + 
Polyfusion 2000 Series, Polyfusion, 160 Sugg Road, 
Buffalo, NY 14225. As modular analog instruments 
have been refined, several have evolved that are worth 
taking note of. One, the Polyfusion 2000 is extremely 
well-built and flexible. Every signal and control output 
and input is made available from control panel jacks and 
internal printed circuit edge connectors such that any 
imaginable patch can be made temporarily, semi-perma- 
nently, or permanently. Although basically monophonic, 
the player can get a two-voice or polyphonic 8-voice 
keyboard (with interface) as an option. 
The instrument 
sounds good, meaning that the filter system can handle 
subtleties of expression, and it is low noise. 
It comes 
with all kinds of options and is recommended for the 
advanced studio composer desiring to remain with 
analog systems. 
Other synthesizer systems which should be mentioned are 
Moog, Buchla, ARP and E-mu. All are standards in their 
own rights and have within their catalogs fine instruments 
in all kinds of configurations. 
Unlike the other companies 
I’ve reviewed, their designs have remained on much the 
same track during the last five years or so. 
They‘re 
covered in Synthesis, reviewed below. 
R.A. Moog, 2500 Walden Avenue, Buffalo, NY 14225. 
Buchla Associates, Berkeley, CA. (Don Buchla requested 
we not list his address.) 
ARP, 320 Needham Street, Newton, MA 02164 
E-mu Systems, 417 Broadway, Santa Cruz, CA 95060. 
