How to Finance 
a Home 
(or anything) 
Without Job, 
Capital, Bank, 
or Crime 
Use your real worth. 
Your friends and 
your word. 
by Bau Graves 
HEN MY CAT AND | DECIDED, 
W after our twelfth move in nine years, 
that we’d better get ourselves a 
more permanent place to live, | visited the bank. 
I told the man at the bank that since | wanted 
to own my home but had no money | would 
like to borrow $5,000 from him. He asked me 
some questions about myself and my income, 
which is rather sporadic. | run a small: music 
store part of the time, but the bulk of my 
income comes from working one day per week 
at a publishing firm, which nets me very little, 
and playing for occasional dances or concerts, 
which nets me even less. Eventually he told 
me that he was sorry but; a) the bank didn’t 
believe that a habitable home could be built 
for $5000; b) no bank in its right mind would 
consider lending ANYTHING to a person like 
myself with a small and uneven income and no 
credit; and c) why didn’t | just work hard for 
a few years and try to make lots of money, 
then come back and see him. 
| next visited the Farmer’s Home Association, 
an organization ostensibly established to provide 
mortgage loans to low income rural people who 
could not get them through regular banks. The 
man there told me that their MINIMUM income 
requirement is more than twice the $2600 
which I’d made in 1977. He further stated that 
there was ‘‘no way” | would ever be able to 
secure a mortgage from ANY established source 
without doubling or trebling my income. 
SARAH HARTIGAN 
Realizing that | was a terminal case as far as traditional 
money sources were concerned, | got to wondering 
whether | could raise enough money to build a house 
by borrowing ten bucks from everybody | knew. 
In 
China it was once traditional for all of the hundreds 
of relatives of a 
new couple to pitch in a little money 
which amounted to enough to build them a home 
(probably still works that way in some culture, some- 
where). Why wouldn’t it be possible for MY extended 
family of friends and acquaintances to provide 
my mortgage? 
With that in mind, last August | wrote a letter detail- 
ing my sources of livelihood and my experience with 
the banking world. 
| pointed out that | was living a 
very low-key, non-consumption oriented lifestyle and 
was being penalized as a result of what | considered 
to be responsible and patriotic behavior. 
| then asked 
for a loan, saying: 
If you will loan me $10 now, | promise 
to pay you back $11 sometime within 
the next ten years. 
In addition you will 
be invited to the very best house-warming 
party in Maine’s history! | promise to 
pay all my loaners back, a few each 
month (just like paying rent!) in the 
order in which | receive the contribu- 
tions. If, for some reason, | fail to raise 
sufficient funds, | promise to repay all 
loaners within one year. 
| sent copies of the letter to everyone | could think of 
who knew me or anything about me. | distributed them 
to customers in my store and passed them out at meet- 
ings of the Brunswick Folk Club which | organize. 
| 
feared that my project would fail and nearly gave it up 
when my parents refused me permission to send it to 
ANY of my relatives or their friends, thus cutting me 
off from hundreds of potential donors. 
It seems they 
assumed that their friends and kin would believe they 
had refused to lend me the money, which would 
embarrass them. However, by this time money was 
already pouring in (in the stamped, self-addressed 
envelopes | had enclosed), so | thought I’d see how 
much would accumulate, 
This was the most interesting part of the project. All 
of a sudden there was a financial “issue” between me 
and virtually everyone | knew. People reacted to my 
proposal in some strange and varied ways. 
Many people applauded my audacity and were pleased 
and proud to contribute. 
| received many notes like 
“Far out for you! | hope everything works out!” or, 
“Your idea is great. We are always willing to help 
friends who have no use for welfare and/or mortgage 
people.” There was one which read: ‘‘Good luck 
Bau! Here’s $10 from me and $10 from my mother 
who also thought your idea was great!” | received 
several donations from complete strangers who hap- 
pened to read my letter: “I don’t know you at all, 
but picked up your letter at the Chocolate Church 
(Performing Arts Center at Bath). Best of luck in 
your endeavour. Enclosed find loan of $10.” Many 
of my donors asked that | not bother with repayment: 
“Enclosed is some money for your ‘build your own 
house fund.’ Consider it a gift. Some day you can 
buy me a beer and we’ll be even.” 
Not all of the response was positive, however. Several 
friends expressed anger (not to me, usually — but 
things get around) that | should ask THEM for house 
~ COMMUNITY 
LIVING CHEAP 29| 
on 
Bau Graves at the back door of his home-made home- 
financed home, Look at the speed of events in this 
ingenious, heart-warming episode. The appeal went out 
August 5, 1978. On September 25 construction began. 
On November 22 Graves moved into his new house. 
He 
footnotes, ‘‘My friend on whose land | built my house 
read this piece and commented that he thought | should 
have said more about the pleasant community feelings 
that were generated by my project — the fact that many 
people felt a sense of participation in my house and 
my life.’ 
Typesetter Evelyn refers to this article as “‘The 
Chutzpa House.” 
money when they had been saving for a home for 
years. The fact that | had asked for money DID put 
a certain amount of tension into my relationships 
with a few people who didn’t want to contribute but 
probably felt like | might hold it against them or 
something. A couple of reluctant contributors cared 
enough to comment: “I’ve been debating about 
: 
whether to send this or not,” wrote one, “not because 
i 
| don’t trust you, but because it raised some issues in 
i 
my mind about feeling that if | had somehow man- 
aged to get money together in my life then | was 
rather a sucker ...’’ Another wrote: ‘My mental 
response to your letter was, 1) Huh! Get a job your- 
self; 2) Look for/create a land trust; and 3) Your 
marriage dissolved, now you want the world to take 
care of you... .’’ Two other people wrote refusing 
to contribute, | received one empty envelope (no 
return address), and was asked by three people to 
buy into a chain letter instead. 
All in all, | distributed about 500 letters. 
| raised a 
little over $3,900 which was contributed by 131 
individuals, many of whom voluntarily gave more 
than the $10 | requested. 
In the process of collecting 
money, however, another fringe benefit of my fund 
raising method became obvious. People have ALL 
: 
KINDS of things just laying around waiting for some- 
One to use them. By tipping off hundreds of people 
to the fact that I was building a house | saved enor- 
mous amounts of money — people were anxious to 
just get rid of things which | needed. 
| was GIVEN 
a gas stove, a refrigerator, a composting toilet; two- 
thirds of my windows including a big picture window, 
my kitchen counter, all of my interior wiring, and 
: 
virtually all of my furniture. 
| was let in on terrific 
| 
bargains on all of the wood used in the house and 
| 
most of the shingles. Best of all — two close friends 
H 
offered to let me build on their property, which | 
| 
eventually did with a lease arrangement by which | 
; 
pay a portion of their annual taxes. 
| 
1 
’ 
| started construction of my house on September 25. 
So many people knew | was building that | had con- 
stant free assistance from friends who wanted to lend 
a hand and advice from experienced carpenters. 
| 
moved in the day before Thanksgiving and have been 
warm and snug in my own home ever since. The total 
cost of the house came to less than $3,400. Itisa 
small house, just a little over 400 square feet, but it 
is comfortable and beautiful, sitting on the edge of a 
ravine about 1/2 mile through the woods from 
Maquoit Bay. A civil engineer friend calculated all 
the stress factors and beam sizes, so | know it’ll be 
here for a long time to come. 
As | work through my list of contributors, paying a 
few back each month, it is a pleasure to think of them 
individually and thank them for making it possible 
for me to have my own home. | imagine it’s nice 
for them too — receiving a check from out of the blue 
and thinking of the wonderful service of friendship 
they’ve performed. 
# 
eeoeeececec eee 
ee eee 
oe eee eee 
eee eee eee 
THE RISING 
SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
=Q= 
“The Indians in Northern California didn’t have 
a concept of fighting. They just died, mostly 
of disease.” 
