WO OF THE TOP LINES ON 
war and averting overpopulation. 
Whether sex has 
sex as recreation, the less we will all be saddled 
with the effects of accidental procreation. Now 
there’s a workable program. 
—SB 
The Joy of Sex 
/f a book is judged on how profoundly it affects people’s 
lives, and how many lives it reaches, this book is one of 
the all time greats. 
You can’t read it without trying some 
of the ideas in it, and those lead to others, and human 
relations grow steadily warmer. 
In the writing, the con- 
tent, and the illustrations, warmth is what the book is 
about. And imagination, and variety. Contact._Health. 
The Joy of Sex 
(A Gourmet Guide 
to Love Making) 
Alex Comfort, Editor 
1974; 254 pp. 
$8.95 Postpaid from: 
Simon and Schuster 
Attn: Order Department 
1230 Avenue of 
the Americas 
New York, NY 10020 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The quickie is the equivalent of inspiration, and you 
should let it strike lightning fashion, any time and almost 
anywhere, from bed in the middle of the night to halfway 
up a spiral stair: anywhere that you‘re suddenly alone and 
the inspiration is bilateral. Not that one or the other 
won't sometimes specifically ask, but the inspirational 
quickie is mutual, and half the fun is that the preliminary 
communication is wordless between real lovers. The rule 
is never to resist this linkup if it’s at all possible — with 
quickness, wit and skill it usually is. This means proficiency 
in handling sitting, standing and other postures, and 
making love without undressing. The ideal quickie posi- 
tion, the nude matrimonial, will often be out. This may 
my public agenda have to do with averting nuclear 
any thing to do with war I/II leave to the Freudians. 
But sex has plenty to do with population. | figure, 
the more attention and sophistication that goes into 
mean on a chair, against a tree, in a washroom. 
If you 
have to wait and can go straight home, it will keep up to 
half an hour. Longer than that and it’s a new occasion. 
Around the house, try not to block, even if you are busy. 
e/ 
Bondage 
Bondage, or as the French call it, ligottage, is the gentle 
art of tying up your sex partner — not to overcome 
reluctance but to boost orgasm. 
It’s one unscheduled sex 
technique which a lot of people find extremely exciting 
but are scared to try, and a venerable human resource for 
increasing sexual feeling, partly because it’s a harmless 
expression of sexual aggression — something we badly 
need, our culture being very up-tight about it — and still 
more because of its physical effects: 
a slow orgasm when 
unable to move is a mind-blowing experience for anyone 
not too frightened of their own aggressive self to try it. 
Sexual Honesty 
/ believe this book has found its way to the very center of 
interest in sex books: What do other people do? — details 
please. Textbooks, including The Joy of Sex, try to 
generalize satisfaction for everybody. Kinsey found, 
and Shere Hite proves, that wild variety throbs in Amer- 
ican bedrooms. Furthermore immeasurable human un- 
happiness goes with painting oneself into a sexual corner. 
The out is sexual honesty. Start with this exciting book. 
(Her later book, The Hite Report, is more interpretive 
and less interesting.) 
—SB 
40. | would like to try having sex outside in a setting like 
the warm, luxuriant garden | mentioned before, and | 
would like to spend a whole day with my husband having 
prolonged and repeated sex. 
| would like to have sex 
more than we do now, and | would like the part before 
intercourse to last longer. | would like to change our 
bedroom scene so that my husband would treat sex in 
a less routine way. 
$1 95 postpaid from: 
Warner Paperback Library 
Book Order Department 
Independent News Co. 
75 Rockefeller Plaza 
New York, NY 10019 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Sexual Honesty 
(By Women 
for Women) 
Compiled and edited 
by Shere Hite 
1974; 294 pp. 
If it’s one of those nights when | just want EVERYTHING 
in me, we get into a missionary position where he has his 
penis in my vagina, and | have room to play with the 
clitoris, and then we put the vibrator in my anus. Wow! 
Blows my mind! 
41. My first lesbian experience was incredibly electrify- 
ing — and a brief affair | had later with a woman who was 
an unbelievably tender and romantic lover. Also Susan! 
My Secret Garden 
Forbidden Flowers 
By female and male acclaim these are the horniest books 
in print. They are made of letters to Nancy Friday by 
innumerable women telling their sexual fantasies in vivid 
detail. Theyre liberating and a turn-on for women — com- 
pletely defusing any lingering guilt about having such 
fantasies — and enlightening and a turn-on for men, 
dissolving what was long thought to be a major difference 
and barrier between the sexes (also tangentially educating 
males on how to be a sensitive and imaginative lover 
rather than a narrow-minded clod). 
The second book, Forbidden Flowers, is even more 
explicit since the women are responding to the excitement 
of My Secret Garden. A number of the correspondents 
announce gleefully that they are masturbating as they write. 
Nice books to read alone, or aloud with a good friend. 
My Secret Garden 
(Women’s Sexual 
Fantasies) 
Nancy Friday 
1973; 336 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
Forbidden Flowers 
(More Women’s 
Sexual Fantasies) 
Nancy Friday 
1975; 324 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
both from: 
Pocket Books 
Attn: Order Department 
1230 Avenue of 
the Americas 
New York, NY 10020 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
I've agreed to help a bachelor friend paint his new apart- 
ment, and since it’s a hot day we've both shed our clothes 
to do the job. He’s up ona 
high ladder slapping paint on 
the ceiling with a broad brush, while I’m standing below 
painting the walls with a roller. 
It’s a water paint, pale 
grey; and at one point as we are laughing at some joke — 
we've been smoking a joint, and the record player is on 
loud — | glance up at him as he grins down at me, and 
from below his balls look so funny (and nice) even 
though he and | have never been to bed together and | 
don’t really know him well enough to know how he'll 
take it — even so | reach up with my roller dripping grey 
paint and slather his bouncing balls, and on up to his 
collarbone. He lets out a yell, and risking his life he’s 
down the ladder like a flash and lets go — slap! slap! — 
with his brush, on my tits, left then right, and | go spin- 
ning around and he whops me on the can, left then right, 
with his big fat brush. So | run my roller up one of his 
sides from ankle to armpit, so he dabs me in the navel, 
and | double over laughing and he’s on top of me, and we 
go down in a puddle of grey paint, writhing and wrestling 
and struggling and both of us suddenly aroused, hot as 
hell and panting and I'm saying ‘Put it in’’ and he’s 
trying to get me in position so he can, and | get my legs 
up around his neck in a frenzy so he can find my cunt 
and it’s all impossible with all the goddam paint, and 
suddenly | see his eyes widen with panic and | feel it the 
same second: the paint is burning us up, but it’s only the 
first second we mind it, then it becomes the greatest 
sensation in the world and we both start sliding together 
and the slimy stuff on all our surfaces glues us together 
and we get it in, and we slide around fucking and fucking 
and FUCKING and FFFUUUCCCKKKIIINNNGGG ... 
{aaaarrrrgggghhhh] 
[Taped interview] 
—My Secret Garden 
e 
. 
.. I'm spread-eagled on a huge roulette wheel that hangs 
on a wall. As my partner penetrates me, the wheel spins 
faster and faster and faster . 
. 
. 
. 
.. 
lam attacked by a pack of German Shepherds (sex- 
ually, that is)... 
. 
.. | have been smuggled into a male prison and am being 
passed from cell to cell. It is the ‘‘long-termer’’ section 
(they are ravenous!) ... 
... 
lam completely passive having things done to me 
against my will. 
It is not actually rape, | don't struggle, 
| enjoy it but against my will. Sometimes | hear a voice, 
like on a PA system, describing what is being done to me 
and my reaction... 
. 
. 
.. 
Lam out on the street with no underwear. 
| approach 
two men walking together, lift my skirts, and offer to 
do anything... 
—My Secret Garden 
e 
lam rising up toward the starry sky. It seems as close as 
a ceiling. The moon is glowing light bulb. | can see for 
miles, lights and buildings, roads and mountains, rivers 
and seas. Down below me, hundreds of miniature people 
atibislb 
ole 
wie 
wile 
9 6 
6:.0' 
\» 
6. 
se 
ee 
stare upward in wonder and awe. A big safety net is being 
quickly constructed on my acre of space (which seems 
only a few feet to me now). My squadron of deep-sea 
divers stand ready and waiting at its edge. They are 
naked except for suitably shaped helmets on their heads 
(like the reddish tips of penises — outsized to them, but 
now quite suitable to me — a six- or seven-inch cock 
.. 
.). 
Dance music has been turned on over loudspeakers, but 
it is faint and far away to me. ‘Turn up the music, 
please,”’ | say, and my voice, louder than any loudspeaker, 
reverberates over the landscape. The Lilliputians below 
clasp their hands over their ears. The music is turned up, 
and | can hear the drumbeat. 
| sway to the rhythm. 
| am 
a beautiful giantess-sex-goddess. No one has ever seen 
anything like me before. 
| pull down one side of my bra, 
exposing a soft white mountain of breast. 
| draw down 
the other side, and two heavy, mountain-breasts swing 
over the crowd, joggling as | dance. Some of the little 
men (overcome with the sight, it would seem) faint or 
collapse. 
| feel very heavy, but it is a pleasant, slow heavi- 
ness like slow-motion films. | have a beautiful, monstrous, 
symmetrical body. 
| put my fingers on the top of my 
Panties and begin to push them down. 
| push them down 
to my thighs, exposing a naked, slowly gyrating pelvis of 
unbelievable size. Little heads crane upward. 
| can see 
their wide open eyes and mouths. 
| have to be careful 
when | draw up one leg (I‘d hate to lose my balance and 
step on anybody). 
| pull my panties off, one leg and then 
the other, stand with my legs spread apart. ‘’So, Little 
People . 
. . | whisper very softly, although my voice still 
echoes from mountaintop to shining sea. ‘’You've never 
seen anything like this before?”’ 
| rock my pelvis and 
spread my legs wider apart as | bend my knees. Fora 
moment, my bedsized clitoris is exposed above them. 
They jump up and down with excitement. 
“‘Let’s see it 
again ...again..." 
| can hear them crying in little 
voices like mewing kittens. 
‘Please, Great Sex Goddess 
. 
.. show us again!” 
| fingertip my labia apart for a few 
seconds, smiling down on them. The moisture of my 
excitement creates drops of falling rain. Giant Goddesses 
do everything on a grand scale. 
“Well, my cocky astronauts 
. 
. ."’ | whisper to my crew. 
“Are you ready for your journey?” 
—Forbidden Flowers 
0 
a ‘ol aie (0) eal bye be) 2.6 6:9) 6. 22) 6.8, pe we) shee) Bele. 
2 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
ily, 
Andrea’s grandmother worked in an American flag 
factory and if she was one minute late, they 
locked her out for the whole day. 
__ COMMUNITY 
ese, SEX 3398 
oN 
he 
f 
y 4 
(| 
—~ 
aed 
£ 
i 
{ 
{ 
| 
