Y 
wtp ee 
pee 
st 
as SS 
wane 
Sen 
mean 
ay oe 
Fi 
P 
by Dick Fugett 
First Lessons in Beekeeping 
/f you’re starting from a condition of total igno- 
rance there’s no better book to be first on your 
list than this old classic. 
Definitions of the terms, 
basic equipment needs, plenty of pictures, tech- 
niques for installing package bees, and as much 
wisdom as the printed page can transmit to assist 
you with the actual arrival of bees in your life. 
First Lessons in 
Beekeeping 
C.P. Dadant, et al. 
1917, 1976; 127 pp. 
$1 postpaid from: 
Dadant and Sons 
51 South Second Street 
Hamilton, IL 62341 
e 
Smoking the bees subdues them in that at the first sign 
of smoke, the bees go to the unsealed cells and fill their 
abdomens with honey. They are then much easier to 
handle as they tend to be much quieter on the combs. 
Perhaps they are merely more docile with a stomach full 
of honey; perhaps they find it slightly more difficult to 
curve the abdomen into a stinging position with a full 
stomach. No one knows the exact reasoning or reactions 
of the bees but they are easier to handle and much quieter 
if the smoker is used with care. The smoke should be a 
cool smoke and the minimum amount necessary to calm 
the bees should be used. 
This hobby kit contains everything that the beginner 
will need with the exception of the bees. 
Diagrams showing slope of cells from front to middle of 
comb and the economy.of the hexagonal shape for 
making honeycomb cells. 
The Hive and the Honeybee 
ABC and XYZ of Bee Culture 
Since the major technical breakthroughs in beekeeping — 
moveable frames, wax foundations and the honey extrac- 
tor — were all made over 100 years ago, beekeepers today 
can devote their efforts to improving technique rather 
than trying to keep up with state-of-the-art equipment 
advances. 
So when it comes to bee books, it follows 
that the old can be as useful as the new, and sometimes 
more so. 
Beekeeping starts with knowing the rules, and here are 
two books that can do it for you, to the extent that a 
book can substitute for experience. Neither of them 
conveys any Feel, but the dry mechanical aspects of First 
Principles must be understood, and here they are. 
Hive is sti/] going strong after 35 years, now ina 5th 
printing of a 3rd edition which was in fact inspired by a 
book published in 1853. 
/t’s passed the test of time — 
if any single volume could be said to present the topic 
this would be it. 
ABC is the other stand- 
ard, a 700 page giant 
that’s equally revered 
after 37 editions and 
jammed with even more 
information, but whose 
encyclopedic arrange- 
ment makes it a reference 
book for the dedicated 
more than a book to be 
read cover to cover. 
The Hive and 
the Honey Bee 
Charles Dadant, 
Roy A. Grout, et al. 
1946, 1973; 556 pp. 
$1 0.95 postpaid from: 
Dadant and Sons 
51 South Second Street 
Hamilton, IL 62341 
ABC and XYZ of 
Bee Culture 
A.|. Root, E.R. Root, 
etal. 
1877, 1970; 726 pp. 
(37th Edition) 
$12.98 postpaid from: 
A.|. Root Company 
Medina, OH 44256 
The Joys of Beekeeping 
Combs built irregularly outside on the branches of a tree. 
—ABC and XYZ of Bee Culture 
e 
The first consideration in choosing the location of an 
apiary is whether or not there are sufficient sources of 
nectar and pollen near. Bear in mind that honey bees 
obtain most of their nectar and pollen within a half- 
mile radius, but can gather at distances of 1 to 2 miles, 
depending on the ruggedness of the country and to some 
extent on the prevailing winds. Even in the heart of large 
cities, there are often sufficient sources of nectar and 
pollen to provide for a limited number of colonies, and 
even to produce surplus honey. A city lawn, a back yard, 
a flat roof, a pasture on a farm, a grove of trees — all will 
be satisfactory locations as the occasion demands. 
—The Hive and the Honey Bee 
e 
Many beekeepers are overly anxious to determine whether 
or not the queens have been accepted after their introduc- 
tion. Frequent examination of the colony, or examina- 
tion in inclement weather, may result in the loss of the 
new queen through being balled by the worker bees. 
Balling occurs when the worker bees cluster tightly about 
the queen and pull at her legs and wings until she is badly 
injured and frequently killed. When a colony is exam- 
ined to make sure the new queen has been accepted, if 
eggs are seen, the queen is there. The hive should be 
closed and the colony left alone. 
—The Hive and the Honey Bee 
Drone 
Worker 
—The Hive and the Honey Bee 
Gleanings in Bee Culture 
Now what if you havent decided whether you want any 
bees in your life? Here’s the book to browse through if 
you’re still contemplating beekeeping or just wondering 
why anyone would want to hang out with a bunch of 
little bugs when they could be inside watching TV. 
“My book is a rejoicing and | have no other objective in 
writing it,” begins Taylor, who then takes us through the 
annual cycle of the bees. Spring swarms and swarm cap- 
turing are followed by summer honeyflows, then the fall 
harvest brings honey extracting, to be replaced at last 
by wintering procedures and snow. 
The day to day 
pleasures, as well as the efforts, are described. As 
opposed to the Rules, here’s some of the Feel. Other 
books tell you How To; this one illustrates Why. 
Bees have a unique fascination when you get to know 
them, for they represent a tiny facet of the magic of 
our existence. 
It’s hard to put into words, but this 
book can pass a little of 
it on. 
The Joys of 
Beekeeping 
Richard Taylor 
1974; 166 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
St. Martin’s Press 
175 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10010 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
One of the joys of a woodlot yard is to look skyward in 
the spring, through a break in the foliage, to see the 
thousands of bees cascading in like a waterfall and rising 
in equal numbers to scatter over the countryside for 
miles around. How they do this without constant 
collision | cannot imagine. They stream upward and 
downward without any interference whatever, threading 
their individual irregular paths with such speed that it 
would be difficult to follow them if there were not such 
numbers. They are oblivious to me, even though | may 
be standing directly beneath the break in the foliage that 
is their entrance to the yard. They swoop past me on 
every side, then each to its own hive, which is indelibly 
fixed in its memory from among the twenty or more 
hives that are there. 
Gleanings in Bee Culture /s a monthly which has been 
published for 107 years and appears to be here to stay. 
/t has current info on everything of interest to the hobby- 
ist from techniques, research, and disease to meetings, 
books and equipment. 
oom 
Gleanings in 
Bee Culture 
Lawrence Goltz, Editor 
$8.75 /year (12 issues) 
from: 
The A.|. Root Co. 
P.O. Box 706 
Medina, OH 44256 
CLUBS 
There’s a number of beekeeping clubs around, but they 
keep a low profile and you may have to work to find 
one. 
If you succeed you'll be rewarded by the company 
of experienced beekeepers. In a hobby that is very much 
“hands-on,” you can be sure that learning from others 
sure beats hell out of do-it-yourself. After one field 
trip all your book learning suddenly makes sense! Check 
with your county agricu/ture department bee inspector. 
SWARMS 
With the price of a two-pound package of bees nearing 
$30 there’s economic incentive to eliminate the middle- 
man. So as soon as you possess the basic skills, why not 
bring some adventure into your life 
by capturing swarms? 
The real-life challenges met during the hiving of a swarm 
of bees from someone’s tree or attic will advance your 
skills and broaden your horizons. 
Contact your county 
Ag. Dept. or local Fire Dept. to be put on the list of 
people called when panicky 
citizens overreact to masses 
of bees coming to visit. 
