Ishi in Two Worlds 
T Ishi 
One August day in 1911 the last wild Indian in America, 
near gone with starvation, the rest of his tribe dead, 
walked into a northern California town. Adopted by the 
brilliant anthropologist, Alfred Kroeber, he lived his 
remaining years in a California museum. 
This book by 
Kroeber’s wife reconstructs Ishi’s wild years in the Deer 
Creek area and tells with affection of his civilized years in 
Berkeley. For now millions of readers, Ishi is our emo- 
tional link to native America. —SB 
Ishi in Two Worlds 
(A Biography of the 
Last Wild Indian in 
North America) 
Theodora Kroeber 
1961; 262 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
University of 
California Press 
2223 Fulton Street 
Berkeley, CA 94720 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
rer 
Lesa 
: 
q 
: 
iad : 
we 
Reporters demanded to know his name, refusing to accept 
Kroeber’s word that the question was in the circumstances 
unmannerly and futile. Batwi intervened, engaging to 
persuade the wild man to tell his name — a shocking 
gaucherie on Batwi's part. The wild man, saving his 
brother Yana’‘s face, said that he had been alone so long 
that he had had no one to give him a name — a polite 
fiction, of course. A California Indian almost never 
speaks his own name, using it but rarely with those who 
already know it, and he would never tell it in reply toa 
direct question. 
The reporters felt, not unnaturally, that they were being 
given the “‘runaround.”’ 
Batwi lost caste with his fellow 
Yana without being of service to the whites; the museum 
people were themselves saying they must have something 
by which to call the Yahi, except just that. Kroeber felt 
more pushed than did his nameless friend who remained 
relatively detached not understanding most of what was 
said, and standing quietly by Indian custom so far as he 
did understand. Said Kroeber, ‘’Very well. He shall be 
known as /shi."" He regretted that he was unable to think 
of a more distinctive name, but it was not inappropriate, 
meaning ‘‘man” in Yana, and hence not of the private or 
nickname category. Thus it was that the last of the Yahi 
was christened Ishi, and in historic fact, became Ishi. 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
NATIVE AMERICA 
The Ohlone Way 
Margolin’s book is in the grand tradition of American 
literary anthropology: the imaginative reconstruction of 
the by-gone days of this continent's tribal peoples. An 
admirable job of re-creation from the still surviving pieces 
of tattered information. 
His fine descriptions of 
pre- 
conquest California will hopefully make this book a 
regional best seller. 
—Peter Warshall 
You know, such a book could be made for every region 
in the U.S., on the continent, on Earth. Without such 
felt history, respect is ——— 
—SB 
The Ohlone Way 
A\ 
(Indian life in the San 
Francisco - Monterey 
pd tik 
in ts Wt 
Bay Area) 
ail 
Malcolm Margolin 
1978; 182 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Heyday Books 
Box 9145 
Berkeley, CA 94709 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The men crowd together near the back wall of the sweat- 
house, and there is much joking and satisfaction among 
them. 
It is a good hot fire today; the older men feel a 
welcome looseness in their joints. Among them is a 
fourteen-year old youth, and they begin to tease him. 
“Are you going to run out again today?” they ask. 
“Make sure you run through the door and not through 
the wall,’’ someone advises, and the other men laugh 
loud and long. 
The young man does not answer. As the heat intensifies 
he feels the sweat ooze out of his pores and flow in rivu- 
lets down his body. Following the example of the others 
he runs a curved rib bone of a deer over his body to drain 
the sweat. 
He has been admitted to the sweat-house only 
a month before, yet (despite the teasing) he already feels 
a welcome easiness here, a sense of being at home. In 
fact, as he squats against the back wall he has the curious 
sense that he has been here a million times before. 
It is as 
if the closed sweat-house with its cluster of men is the real, 
eternal world, and the world of the village, the meadows, 
and the woods is merely a colorful but passing dream. 
e 
Today we are the heirs of that distance, and we take it 
entirely for granted that animals are naturally secretive 
and afraid of our presence. But for the Indians who 
lived here before us this was simply not the case. Animals 
and humans inhabited the very same world, and the dis- 
tance between them was not very great. 
Handbooks of North American Indians 
These are the first two volumes in a twenty volume set of 
the Smithsonian’s encyclopedia of what’s known about 
the earliest peoples of North America, The people here at 
the time of European contact and the present-day descen- 
dants of these peoples. 
These volumes will be our basic 
references for all time and though cumbersome in 
approach and prose, they are filled with absorbing photos 
and information. 
A GREAT price for such a mountain 
range of historical reference. 
—Peter Warshall 
Handbook of North 
American Indians, 
Vol. 15: Northeast 
Bruce Trigger, Editor 
1978; 924 pp. 
$14.50 
Vol. 8: California 
Robert F. Heizer, Editor 
1978; 800 pp. 
$13.50 
both postpaid from: 
Smithsonian Press 
Distribution Center 
1111 North Capitol Street 
Washington, DC 20560 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
In northwestern California 
it was believed that every- 
thing humans did was derived 
from the way it was done in myth 
times. Originally the world was 
populated by a prehuman race of people who worked out 
how everything should be done. They waited until the 
Keepers of the Game 
North American natives made a pact with the animal 
world — a pact of good manners, mutual courtesy and 
reasonable exploitation of each other’s populations. 
When European diseases struck North American tribal 
peoples, the diseases were perceived as a vengeful, rude 
and unbalanced attack by wildlife. 
This disillusionment 
with animals allowed Christianity to replace native 
religions, allowed traders to persuade Indians to become 
avid exploiters of beaver, and ended the dialog between 
native humans and North America’s living creatures. 
Keepers of the Game is the most interesting, recent 
academic history of the European conquest. 
/t includes 
a thoughtful discussion, tinged with cynicism, about 
today’s Christian-based conservationist attempt to 
resurrect the pre-Columbian Indian as the Noble Savage, 
guru to Whitey, and wise man of proper land and water 
use policies. 
—Peter Warshall 
Keepers of the Game 
(Indian-Animal Relation- 
ships and the Fur Trade) 
Calvin Martin 
1978; 225 pp. 
$1 0.95 postpaid from: 
University of Calif. Press 
2223 Fulton Street 
Berkeley, CA 94720 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Little Big Man 
“There isn’t a lie in it!” was the amazed response of the 
Ponca firebrand Clyde Warrior back when the book first 
came out. Arthur Penn later made a fine movie of it, 
starring Dustin Hoffman and Chief Dan George, but the 
book is better still. 
/t’s a tale of a fictional white boy 
adopted by the Cheyenne in the climax of their glory 
and dismemberment 
in the late 1800's. What's tragic 
and sacred and comic is as completely mixed as in real 
Indian life. 
Little Big Man 
Thomas Berger 
1964; 447 pp. 
$2.50 postpaid from: 
Fawcett Books 
600 Third Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
No, all seemed right to me at that moment. 
It was one 
of the few times | felt: this is the way things are and 
should be. | had medicine then, that’s the only word 
for it. / knew where the center of the world was. A 
remarkable feeling, in which time turns in a circle, and he 
who stands at the core has power over everything that 
takes the form of line and angle and square. Like Old 
Lodge Skins drawing in them antelope within the little 
circle of his band, but concentric around them was all 
other Cheyenne, present end past, living and ghost, for 
the Mystery is continuous. 
present people appeared, taught them everything they 
knew, and then turned into animals, plants, rocks, and 
mountains (Harrington 1932:8). —vol. 8 
e 
The research of Porter (1971), Aptheker (1939), and 
Woodson (1918) demonstrates the extent to which Negro 
slaves ran away, were sheltered by Indians, and inter- 
married with them. Furthermore, Indians themselves 
were often enslaved and held in bondage along with 
Blacks, with whom they mixed. 
Free Black ancestors 
are also demonstrable for some groups. However, 
the history of only a few mestizo communities 
has been the subject of scholarly research, and 
the origin and development of most of them 
remain undocumented. —Vol. 15 
Adjustable 
smokehole 
Entrance 
lose 
Exterior viewed from front, interior viewed 
from rear. —Vol. 8 
Sherman Red Eye driving a Packard preparatory to a feast 
for the False Face Society at the Allegheny Seneca com- 
munity. Photograph by William N. Fenton, Aug. 1, 1934. 
—Vol. 15 
eee eee eee eee eee er eee 
sce eos eee eee eee ee 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
Na 
Aoki went to Idaho in 1960 to learn Nez Perce 
for the Idaho Historical Society and the UC 
Berkeley Linguistics Department. While there 
he met Joseph Watson, a white man who could 
speak Nez Perce. He had been traded to the Nez 
+ Perce for a milk cow when he was a baby and he’d 
* lived with them all his life. 
Pe 
ee 
ee 
ee 
aT Ny 
45 
