328 
rm 
1 
AML \ ITY alga 
om 
— 
“ALCOHOLISM 
| 
tap 
Alcoholism 
by a member of Alcoholics Anonymous 
TWENTY QUESTIONS 
Are You an Alcoholic? 
To answer this question, ask yourself the following 
questions and answer them as honestly as you can. 
Do you lose time from work due to drinking? 
ls drinking making your home life unhappy? 
Do you drink because you are shy with other people? 
Is drinking affecting your reputation? 
Have you ever felt remorse after drinking? 
Have you gotten into financial difficulties as a result 
of drinking? 
7. Do you turn to lower companions and an inferior 
environment when drinking? 
8. 
Does your drinking make you careless of your 
family’s welfare? 
9. 
Has your ambition decreased since drinking? 
10. 
Do you crave a drink at a definite time daily? 
11. 
Do you want a drink the next morning? 
12. 
Does drinking cause you to have difficulty 
in sleeping? 
13. 
Has your efficiency decreased since drinking? 
14. 
Is drinking jeopardizing your job or business? 
15. 
Do you drink to escape from worries or troubles? 
16. 
Do you drink alone? 
17. 
Have you ever had a complete loss of memory as 
a result of drinking? 
18. 
Has your physician ever treated you for drinking? 
19. 
Do you drink to build up your self-confidence? 
20. 
Have you ever been to a hospital or institution on 
account of drinking? 
Cp 
alt 
ll 
Bn 
If you have answered YES to any one of the questions, 
there is a definite warning that you may be an alcoholic. 
If you have answered YES to any two, the chances are 
that you are an alcoholic. 
If you have answered YES to three or more, you are 
definitely an alcoholic. 
Reprinted with permission of A.A. World Services, Inc. 
BOUT FIVE YEARS BEFORE I 
ON made it to AA, I answered four- 
teen of those questions yes. Be- 
cause I didn’t relate drinking to the damage that 
was already underway, I decided that the test must 
be bullshit. Denial, they tell me, is characteristic 
of alcoholics. 
Ihad a great life. I didn’t enjoy it much. I had 
reasons to drink. (Only alcoholics need reasons 
to drink, they tell me.) I drank because everyone 
else did. I drank because I was sensitive. 
I was depressed, hung over, and incapacitated a 
lot. (Not surprising, considering that alcohol is a 
depressant, and toxic.) After another couple of 
years of prodigious daily drinking, I began to think 
that I might have a drinking problem after all. 
Somebody told me that if I could quit drinking 
for two weeks without getting DT’s, I wasn’t an 
alcoholic. I quit for exactly two weeks, saw no 
snakes, and started drinking again. (Later, I 
learned that not drinking doesn’t equal sobriety. 
Some alcoholics can make it for a year without 
a drink on a white-knuckle basis, but it’s 
not much fun.) 
EN... 
rr 
—————————————————— 
Ill Quit Tomorrow 
Love and Addiction 
Alcoholics start out from a million different situations 
and head in the same direction — towards insanity 
and death. 
The progression of alcoholism, and the 
personality changes it brings about are predictable. 
This straightforward book describes that progression. 
Johnson presumes that alcoholics are incapable of 
recognizing what’s happening to them and why. There- 
fore he advises intervention by the alcoholic’s family and 
describes how that, and subsequent hospitalization for 
group therapy, can be done. 
Thomas Szasz, The Myth-of-Mental-IlIness man, would 
shit a brick; Vernon Johnson is no psycholibertarian. 
But he, like Szasz, has got a big piece of truth here, and 
has written a book which is helping to save lives. 
—Stephanie Mills 
I'll Quit Tomorrow 
(A Practical Guide to 
Alcoholism Treatment) 
Vernon Johnson 
1980; 182 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Harper and Row 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
a 
As the drinking continues, the learning process continues, 
and a lot of it is unconscious learning. But if it is subtle, 
it is thorough. The drinker learns that alcohol works 
every time, and continues not only to use alcohol, but to 
develop a relationship with it. This whole experience 
is absorbed, and in due time the drinker knows that one 
drink can greatly improve a bad mood. Or if it isn’t 
enough, and the mood needs more improving, one or two 
more will do the trick. This relationship with alcohol is 
positive rather than negative. 
It is based on implicit 
trust, built in more and more strongly as experience 
proves that booze will do its job every time. Experience 
builds on experience and consolidates it, and the result 
is a deeply imbedded relationship which the drinker will 
carry throughout life. 
e 
We believe in intervention because a person's life is in 
danger. 
It is as necessary as surgery when peritonitis is 
inevitable. The chief misconception is that spontaneous 
insight may occur. When you examine the lives of those 
who claim to have had it, you discover that a buildup of 
crises has forced them to look at the reality of their con- 
dition. The only way back to reality is through crisis. 
This is what Art Kleiner calls a “metabook.” It’s one 
that provides entry to a whole field. Its starting point is 
that addiction is a type of relationship, one which can 
obtain between people, as well as between people and 
things like booze, heroin, or cigarettes. 
Peele describes the social and familial factors which 
help form addict personalities, then suggests pathways 
for maturing out of addiction. 
It’s definitely a get better 
book, written with enough respect for the person that 
he or she might actually get better as a result. 
—Stephanie Mills 
Love and Addiction 
Stanton Peele and 
Archie Brodsky 
1975; 309 pp. 
$2.50 postpaid from: 
The New American 
Library 
P.O. Box 120 
120 Woodline 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
$ 
N 
§ 
$ 
i 
6 
= 
e 
The addict is a person who never learns to come to grips 
with his world, and who therefore seeks stability and 
reassurance through some repeated, ritualized activity. 
This activity is reinforced in two ways — first, by acom- 
forting sensation of well-being induced by the drug or 
other addictive object; second, by the atrophy of the 
addict's other interests and abilities and the general 
deterioration of his life situation while he Is preoccupied 
with the addiction. As alternatives grow smaller, the 
addiction grows larger, until it is all there is. A true 
addict progresses into a monomania, whether the object 
of addition is a drug or a lover. 
e 
Today, alcoholism is considered our largest-scale drug 
problem. Explaining the reasons for alcohol misuse, 
David McClelland and his colleagues discovered in The 
Drinking Man that heavy, uncontrolled drinking occurs 
in cultures which explicitly value personal assertiveness 
while at the same time suppressing its expression. This 
conflict, which alcohol eases by offering its users the 
illusion of power, is precisely the conflict which gripped 
America during the period when opiate use grew and was 
outlawed, and when our society had such a hard time 
deciding what to do about alcohol. 
e 
Practically speaking, we can only make the personal 
decision to treat something as an addiction on the basis 
of how much we see it hurting us, and how much we want 
to be rid of it. More philosophically, we can accept a 
degree of ambiguity in our lives and relinquish the need 
for certainty and for perfect solutions that is itself a facet 
of addiction. Accepting ourselves in our imperfection, 
though with insight and determination to change, we are 
ready to become free, responsive beings. 
By this time, my 24-year-old heart was beating 
erratically, my digestion was so screwed up that I 
took belladonna regularly, and the perpetual 
hangover required aspirin daily. I usually drank 
at lunch, frequently had a few on the way home, 
and always had wine with dinner. Very high class. 
I concluded many festive evenings by heaving my 
guts. Very sexy. I thought this was all normal. 
(I heard one AA say, “I thought every body over 
thirty vomited blood in the morning.’’) I was 
not a happy lush. I was paranoid and deeply 
pessimistic. I had no idea that these feelings were 
connected with my drinking. 
IFE WITHOUT ALCOHOL HAD 
_L 
become inconceivable, but I sure 
wished I could drink less. I rarely 
intended to get drunk. I generally did, and expended 
alot of energy on trying to seem sober. 
Another friend, a psychologist working with alco- 
holics, told me that personality changes and 
blackouts (memory losses while drinking) are 
considered definitive symptoms of alcoholism. 
Although I usually felt that I could be a lot nicer 
person than I was, I didn’t understand what she 
meant by personality changes .. 
. 
... Until I entered a steady relationship with a 
real prince. It was bliss, marred only by our 
getting drunk together every night, and my sadistic 
verbal assaults on his character, his aspirations, 
and his friends and relations. More than once I 
made him cry. I was remorseful by midnight and 
self-justifying by noon. And I really couldn’t stop. 
He put up with this for a while (alcoholism in a 
relationship requires teamwork). But the mind- 
fucking got old fast, and he told me so. By now 
I figured I was a moral failure, unable to stop 
hurting him — and myself — so badly; and, by no 
coincidence, unable to control my drinking. 
Things had got hopeless enough for me to admit 
my alcoholism. 
It was obvious that I couldn’t 
quit drinking by myself, and obvious that if I 
continued to drink my health, my psyche and my 
life were guaranteed to deteriorate till I died. 
For some reason, Ann Landers’ good advice 
probably, I believed that Alcoholics Anonymous 
was how to quit drinking. (Most cities of any size 
list AA in their telephone directories and AA’s 
General Service Office, Box 459 Grand Central 
Station, New York, NY 10017, will help alco- 
holics in remoter places by mail.) So. I called 
Alcoholics Anonymous, and found that there was 
a meeting 
in my neighborhood that night. I went. 
That was a year and a half ago. With the help of 
AA, I haven’t taken a drink since. Because I con- 
sider my sobriety to be a daily reprieve from a 
deadly progression, I go to at least a couple of 
AA meetings every week, and I try not to drink 
between meetings no matter what. 
“Forever non-professional”, AA is pure mutual aid. 
AA meetings are endlessly interesting and usually 
funny while providing ongoing discussion of the 
homely business of facing life without booze. 
life. Unchecked, alcoholism is 
fatal. Your average drinking alco- 
holic lives about fifty-five years. That’s short 
because alcoholism has destructive effects on the 
liver, the pancreas, the gut, the brain, the nerves, 
and the heart, to say nothing of the soul. The 
majority of fatal car accidents, fire deaths, drown- 
ings, and fatal falls involve alcohol. Over half of 
the murders and incidents of child abuse, and a 
third of the rapes and suicides committed in the 
US are attributable to alcohol misuse. This 
totals a hell of a lot of destruction and human 
misery, much of which could be avoided. 
ne GENERAL IDEA IS TO CHOOSE 
In this country, seven out of ten people drink. 
One out of ten is an alcoholic, just like me. We 
don’t choose to be alcoholic any more than others 
