WHOLE SYSTEMS 
NATIVE AFRICA 
The Lost World of the Kalahari 
The magical account of a search and a brief time with a 
noble timeless people, the Bushmen of the Kalahari 
Desert in southwestern Africa. 
The Lost World 
of the Kalahari 
Laurens van der Post 
1958; 270 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
Harcourt Brace & 
Jovanovitch 
757 Third Avenue 
New York, NY 10017 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Long before he saw us, we were able to identify the bare 
head of a young Bushman working energetically at some- 
thing in the grass. When he heard us, he shot upright like 
an arrow out of the grass and grabbed his spear, but 
already Dabe was calling out loudly the ancient Bushman 
greeting, ‘‘“Good day. | saw you from afar and | am 
dying of hunger.” 
The young man stuck his spear in the sand and with his 
right hand raised, palm open and fingers up, walked 
shyly toward us, saying in a tone | had never heard before 
before, “Good day! 
| have been dead, but now that 
you have come, | live again.” 
In the cool of the evening they and Xhooxham, “Lips 
of Finest Fat,’’ led us some miles away to the deepest 
part of the old watercourse between dunes yellow in the 
sun. There we found several shallow excavations dug for 
water in ampler seasons, but the supply which never 
failed them was hidden, safe from evaporation of sun and 
wind, deep beneath the sand. Near the deepest excava- 
tion Bauxhau knelt down and dug into the sand to arm’s 
length. Toward the end some moist sand but no water 
appeared. Then he took a tube almost five feet long made 
out of the stem of a bush with a soft core, wound about 
four inches of dry grass lightly around one end pre- 
sumably to act as a kind of filter against the fine drift 
sand, inserted it into the hole and packed the sand back 
The Forest People 
One of the most appealing peoples in the world, the 
BaMbuti pygmies of the African Congo are the subject 
of this classic account. 
Turnbull writes as effectively as 
he observes. 
The Forest People 
Colin Turnbull 
1968; 295 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid from: 
Simon and Schuster 
Order Department 
1230 Avenue of 
the Americas 
New York, NY 10020 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Whereas the other tribes are relatively recent arrivals, the 
Pygmies have been in the forest for many thousands of 
years. 
It is their world, and in return for their affection 
and trust it supplies them with all their needs. They do 
not have to cut the forest down to build plantations, for 
they know how to hunt the game of the region and 
gather the wild fruits that grow in abundance there, 
though hidden to outsiders. They know how to distin- 
guish the innocent-looking /taba vine from the many 
others it resembles so closely, and they know how to 
follow it until it leads them to a cache of nutritious, 
sweet-tasting roots. They know the tiny sounds that 
tell where the bees have hidden their honey; they recog- 
nize the kind of weather that brings a multitude of 
different kinds of mushrooms springing to the surface; 
and they know what kinds of wood and leaves often 
disguise this food. The exact moment when termites 
swarm, at which they must be caught to provide an 
important delicacy, is a mystery to any but the people 
of the forest. They know the secret language that is 
denied all outsiders and without which life in the 
forest is an impossibility. 
e 
Co-operation is the key to Pygmy society; you can 
expect it and you can demand it, and you have to give 
it. If your wife nags you at night so that you cannot 
sleep, you merely have to raise your voice and call on 
your friends and relatives to help you. Your wife will 
do the same, so whether you like it or not the whole 
camp becomes involved. At this point someone — very 
often an older person with too many relatives and 
friends to be accused of being partisan — steps in with 
the familiar remark that everyone is making too much 
noise, or else diverts the issue onto a totally different 
track so that people forget the origin of the argument 
and give it up. 
Issues other than disputes are settled the same way, 
without leadership appearing from any particular 
individual. 
If it is a matter involving the hunt, every 
adult male discusses it until there is agreement. The 
women can throw in their opinions, particularly if they 
know that the area the men have selected is barren of 
vegetable foods. But the men usually know this anyway. 
The Mountain People 
By the author of The Forest People, this is a different 
story. 
Intellectual liberals have never quite recovered 
from it. Turnbull found that among the /k of eastern 
Africa, family and altruism simply do not exist as values. 
A mother is glad when the leopard eats her baby, because 
she is released of the burden, and now the leopard will be 
sleepy enough to kill and eat, along with the remains of 
the child. How far can selfishness go? Read. 
—SB. 
The Mountain People 
Colin M. Turnbull 
1978; 309 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid from: 
Simon and Schuster 
Order Department 
1230 Avenue of 
the Americas 
New York, NY 10020 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Lolim, the ritual priest, refused shelter by his son, staggers 
off to die on the barren, rocky mountainside. 
But he lay 
down to die so that the sun’s first rays would strike his 
poor, dead eyes. He had hope, his son had none. 
It was that that killed her. She demanded that her parents 
love her. She kept going back to their compound, almost 
next to Atum’s and the closest to my own. 
Finally they 
took her in, and Adupa was happy and stopped crying. 
She stopped crying forever, because her parents went 
away and closed the asak tight behind them, so tight that 
weak little Adupa could never have moved it if she had 
tried. But | doubt that she even thought of trying. She 
waited for them to come back with the food they 
promised her. When they came back she was still wait- 
ing for them. 
It was a week or ten days later, and her 
body was already almost too far gone to bury. In an Ik 
village who would notice the smell? And if she had cried, 
who would have noticed that? Her parents took what 
was left of her and threw it out, as one does the riper 
garbage, a good distance away. They even pulled some 
stones over it to stop the vultures and hyenas from 
scattering bits and pieces of their daughter in Atum’s 
field; that would have been offensive, for they were 
good neighbors and shared the same odok. 
The Ik teach us that our much vaunted human values are 
not inherent in humanity at all, but are associated only 
with a particular form of survival called society, and that 
all, even society itself, are luxuries that can be dispensed 
with. That does not make them any the less wonderful 
or desirable, and if man has any greatness it is surely in 
his ability to maintain these values, clinging to them to 
an often very bitter end, even shortening an already piti- 
fully short life rather than sacrificing his humanity. But 
that too involves choice, and the Ik teach us that man can 
lose the will to make it. That is the point at which there 
is an end to truth, to goodness and to beauty; an end to 
the struggle for their achievement, which gives life to the 
individual while at the same time giving strength and 
meaning to society. The Ik have relinquished all luxury 
in the name of individual survival, and the result is that 
they live on as a people without life, without passion, 
beyond humanity. 
Blind Logwara ... when he tried to reach a dead hyena 
for a share of the putrid meat, his fellow Ik trampled him 
underfoot. 
He thought it quite funny. sik 
into it, stamping it down with his feet. He then took 
some empty ostrich-egg shells from Xhooxham and 
wedged them upright into the sand beside the tube, 
produced a little stick, one end of which he inserted into 
the opening in the shell and the other into the corner of 
his mouth. Then he put his lips to the tube. 
For about 
two minutes he sucked mightily without any result. 
His 
broad shoulders heaved with the immense effort and 
sweat began to run like water down his back. But at last 
the miracle happened and so suddenly that Jeremiah 
gasped and | had an impulse loudly to cheer. A bubble 
of pure bright water came out of the corner of Bauxhau’s 
mouth, clung to the little stick and ran straight down its 
side into the shell without spilling one precious drop! 
So it continued, faster and faster until shell after shell 
was filled, Bauxhau’s whole being and strength joined in 
the single function of drawing water out of the sand and 
pumping it up into the light of day. Why he didn’t fall 
down with exhaustion | don’t know. | tried to do it, and 
though my shoulders are broad and my lungs good, | 
couldn't extract a single drop from the sand. We named 
that place, where we saw one of the oldest of legends 
about the Bushman become a miraculous twentieth- 
century fact, ‘““the Sip-wells.”” 
Pe 
ee 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
wy 
ae 
The most insidious TV show going is ‘The Rep,” 
mostly because it’s as good as everyone says it is. 
It’s a dramatic-with-some-comedy series about a 
young, good, college related performing company 
in the boondocks. For four weeks they rehearse 
a play, have love life problems, argue with pro- 
fessors, argue with mom and dad — generally high 
class soap opera with occasional intelligent discus- 
sions of how to perform George Bernard Shaw 
thrown in. And most actors I’ve talked to say the 
rehearsal scenes are good. Then on the fifth week, 
the show expands from one hour to two or two 
and a half hours and the company performs a play 
— areal play, the play they’ve been rehearsing. 
(The previous rehearsal scenes, like movie previews, 
have shown interesting moments of crisis but 
nothing about the ending.) 
So what the series has going for it is the addictive 
power of any continuing story, the only real 
plays seen on TV in years, and the ultimate amaz- 
ing trick — acting. The viewers get to see acting 
really happening by seeing the same people in 
different hard roles, and what it’s like to prepare 
for them. But more than all that, the biggest 
reason why everyone has to watch the show is 
that when you watch it you get to watch a com- 
munity of people working together to do a good 
thing. Hardly anyone gets to do that anymore; 
hardly anyone gets to do good work and those 
that do often have to work alone. 
So who wouldn’t want to watch people having 
fun and making something worthy at the same 
time? That’s what’s so insidious about it — it 
exploits the hole we’re in but it doesn’t do a thing 
to help us out of it. What are we supposed to do 
— become superb actors and get this fantasy job? 
Maybe television couldn’t do anything to help us 
out of isolation, since it’s essentially isolating, but 
maybe there is something it could do, like cele- 
brating amateurism. Like showing an amateur 
theatre group that was truly uneven and letting 
people see how anyone can start a group to do 
anything if they don’t expect slick perfection. 
The media render us more and more powerless 
by convincing us we shouldn’t pay attention to or 
take part in anything that isn’t glossy and error 
free — not necessarily good but flawless and not 
showing weakness, like the opening production 
number on a TV variety show. 
The old rituals were nice because as long as you 
could walk in a straight line and follow simple 
directions, you could be part of something that 
was impressive — impressive because of the other 
people doing the same thing, or the clothes you 
had on or where you were doing it (Stonehenge, 
Chartres) but not because you were paid to prac- 
tice until you did complicated things perfectly. 
But I guess if television tried to show us anything 
about stuff like that and how to do something 
like that today, we'd get bored 
- 
«ag 
=\n 
ies 
a 
a 
aaa 
wallet 
siessiaisinel 
iol 
ol 
«) 
©) 
els 
(le) 
isiailv 
oe) 
si 
exes 
alle 
(a\e)e(yn&) 
elie 
0) 
8's 
ele 
Sic 
180 
8 6 € 108 
6 eee 
ec 
eC 
OCR 
Eee 
So 
oie 
er 
De 
eee 
Meme 
eee 
ME 
Ce 
eee 
eMC 
ee 
Sew 
