| 
| 
. 
1 
| 
; 
- 
(28 
g 
Thi eo ti Tel pte 
ea 
i ie 
nae et 
Ny OO ae 
= 7% 
COMMUNITY 
OMMUNITY IS ONE OF OUR CATCH-ALL SECFIONS (“learning” is the other), but on 
scrutiny, two themes emerge. One is that living well and living free bear a lot of relation 
to living cheap. The second is that living cheap and living happily are all wrapped up with 
the complex life of neighborhood, family, friends, lovers, co-workers — community. 
—SB 
Why do people work at jobs they don’t like? Why 
is it common to hear people say their goal in life 
is to “‘make a lot of money?” These are the most 
frequently given answers: 
“A lot of money will let me be free to do what 
I want.” 
“People with a lot of money command more 
respect from others.” 
“TJ need more money for my family.” 
“Money is necessary for security in old age.” 
THESE STATEMENTS ARE ILLUSIONS. They 
are inaccurate perceptions of the world we live in. 
When we look at the average graduating class of 
high school students, we are distressed to know 
that nearly all of them hold these values: they 
seek ‘a lot” of money as a lifetime goal. Less than 
five percent of these students will become wealthy. 
The remaining 95 percent will shape their lives 
around these inappropriate values. 
How do you feel about these four statements? 
Read them over and see if you find them com- 
pletely agreeable. For most people they are. 
money will 
let me be free to 
Oi 
Pf, 
fx 
do what I want.” 
: 
nes 
“ . Via A! 
You can really feel this way when you’re working 
at a job that you don’t like, when you’re unhappy 
with the way things are going in your life, and 
when there is some object, experience, or service 
you desperately want to buy. 
The alternative is to deal with these feelings, direct- 
ly and positively. Write down the specific things 
you want to do with your life. Describe the things 
you need to shape the kind of person you want to 
be (the experiences you need, knowledge, skills, 
talents, etc.) Make sure what you write down 
doesn’t include money itself. When you look at 
your list you'll find that there is a way to accom- 
he Four [llusions 
of Money: 
and the non-money truths they hide 
by Michael Phillips, Rasberry and Andora Freeman 
plish all of it in your lifetime without any more 
money than you now have. Most things require 
that you actively pursue them and LEARN in the 
process. If you want to be a world traveller, join 
the crew of a sailing ship and be useful in a way 
you know now. Later you'll be useful as a sailor 
and have the necessary great stories to tell at night 
about hitting sharks on the nose in the Bahamas. 
What you may find from the list that you make is 
that having a lot of money may allow you to 
achieve goals a little sooner, but the effort of going 
out and earning money to make something happen 
sooner is not worth the time, and more importantly 
the person you may become may have lost vigor 
and joy. 
Back in the late 50s a young woman who desired 
a doctorate degree won over $100,000 on a TV 
quiz show. Years later, in reflecting on the effect 
of the prize money, she said it made little differ- 
ence in her life although it may have accelerated 
her degree by a few years. She was a strong woman 
and knew what she wanted to do with her life. 
She’s Doctor Joyce Brothers. 
Her experience is not uncommon. People who know 
what they want to DO with their lives go ahead 
and do it. They don’t make the money first doing 
something else. It often turns out that money and 
the possessions which go with making lots of money 
are responsibilities and restrictions that inhibit 
freedom. The possessions unrelated to your live- 
lihood are often amassed to help you feel better 
about yourself. 
Check your list again and see how many possess- 
ions are listed there. Most possessions on your 
list are abundantly available. Many things can be 
borrowed from friends who are willing to share. 
That includes everything from a ski condominium 
in Snowmass to an Aston-Martin race car. With a 
good network of friends, nearly anything is 
possible. The alternative to investing your energy 
in making money is developing strong friendships. 
This means being an interesting, trustworthy and 
helpful person yourself. 
When you are unable to locate something you 
need among your friends, consider renting the 
piece of equipment. Finding and restoring “dis- 
cards” can be an alternative to save both money 
and resources. Perhaps you have possessions you 
can trade to a friend or neighbor in exchange for 
a ee ee ee 
ee 
RD ee ee Ea 
Ex-banker Michael Phillips is the author (with 
Rasberry) of The Seven Laws of Money (p. 308). 
The clip art is from the peerless Hart Picture 
Archive Humor, Wit, & Fantasy (p. 464). 
something more useful. Service bartering can be 
an even more rewarding experience. It costs no 
more than time and energy spent with a friend. If 
you have a skill, share it with others. 
In writing and examining your values it’s helpful 
to talk to someone who is wise. The wisdom of 
millions of our ancestors has been very consistent 
on this point, and wise people constantly pass it 
on to us. The goal of amassing (getting a lot of) 
money is traditionally called “greed” and regard- 
less of your motives in getting the money (free- 
dom, charity, or anything else) the results will 
not be what you hope for. Instead the wise 
teachers of tradition tell us to go ahead and do 
the things we want and become good at them. 
In that lies our freedom. 
eople with a lot of 
money command 
more respect 
from others.” 
If you know that the first 
statement about money 
and freedom is false, then 
it will help you to see 
the fallacy behind money 
zs 
equaling respect. In 
looking at the big cars and the big houses we often 
believe that their owners can do much more than 
we can. If indeed the people with big cars and 
houses can do more than we can, then it probably 
isn’t their money, it’s other qualities that they 
may have such as knowledge, experience, and 
friends. It isn’t their money. A common exper- 
ience in business is the person who builds a success- 
ful company, goes broke, and then builds up a 
new company again starting from scratch. 
If we believe we personally want respect, it helps 
to make a list of the qualities we want to have, 
qualities that lead others to respect us, qualities 
that we want our children to have or our friends 
to have. Do words such as loyal, honest, and 
: 
generous occur on your list? A careful examina- 
tion of these qualities reveals that each of them 
has to do with how we conduct our daily lives 
and not how much money we have. 
1 — le 
Now make a list of the people you love. Bob, 
Annie, Carole, and David. Examine the list to 
see if it’s ranked in the order of how much money 
they have. There is probably no relationship be- 
tween love and the amount of money they have. 
The same criteria we apply to others can be 
applied to us. Money isn’t a reason for friendship 
or respect. 
