atta 
f 
ae 
Man’s Role in Changing the Face 
of the Earth 
An unsurpassed achievement in assembling pertinent, 
insightful information of interest not only to serious 
students of the planet Earth, but to non-trained readers 
as well. 
The three sections of the book are: |. “Retrospect”, 
an historical background, II. “Process”, methods and 
agencies involved in man’s interactions with the land; 
and I/II. “Prospect”, the effects and future implications 
of man’s habitation of the Earth. Some typical subjects 
covered within these sections include: fire as the great 
force employed by man; origins and decline of woodlands; 
man and grass (sic); ecology of peasant life; harvests of 
the seas; ports channels and coastlines; the sewerage 
(don’t belittle sewerage — society is structured around it). 
This book rewards a reader like me because of its minimum 
of moralizing and its abundant substance. Edgar Anderson, 
former director of the Missouri Botanical Garden in 
St. Louis and without whom such a book as this would 
be certainly incomplete, pointed out that the average 
thoughtful person has little inkling of how man has 
reclothed the world. Even professional biologists have 
been tardy in recognizing that a significant portion of the 
plants and animals surrounding us are of our own making. 
For example, neither Kentucky bluegrass nor Canada 
bluegrass is native to those places, but came from Europe. 
The corn belt is a very obviously man-dominated /and- 
scape, but the casual observer might never realize that 
even the grass-covered and oak-dotted stretches of what 
looks like indigenous California vegetation came unin- 
vited from the Old World along with the Spaniards. 
—Richard Raymond 
Man’s Role In Changing 
the Face of the Earth, 
Volume 2 
Volume 1 
1956; 1193 pp. 
William L. Thomas, Jr., 
$6.95 
Editor (With the Collabo- 
ration of Carl Sauer, 
Marston Bates, and 
Lewis Mumford) 
1956; 448 pp. 
$4.75 
both postpaid from: 
Chicago, |L 60628 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Reinhabiting a Separate Country 
In North America, the memory of the pre-humanized 
Jandscape is still close. Remnant primeval forests, patches 
of virgin prairies, maybe 50 significant stretches of un- 
touched river, small herds of buffalo, an occasional grizzly 
all remind us of yesteryears. 
This memory (and an 
interest in the native peoples who lived in harmony with 
these creatures) has given birth to the “bioregionalists.” 
They are a group of scientists, writers, actors, politicians 
and folk who would like to see the remnants of preEuro- 
American landscape preserved. 
They would like to see 
humans and modern governments adjusting themselves 
to what's left of Nature (rather than continually destroy- 
ing Nature and then trying to adjust to the earthscape 
they have just destroyed). 
The eloquent ideologue of the bioregional vision is Peter 
Berg. Whenever you get a feeling that you should slow 
down and talk to the old people, check out the magic 
mountains, settle in one watershed and become more 
intimate with the fabric of human settlement and water 
dynamics, then Peter’s vocabulary coyotes into your 
speech. Reinhabiting a Separate Country /s the book he’s 
edited. 
The “separate country” is defined by the 
mountain ranges that form the rim of the Great Valley 
of California plus some of the coastal ranges that drain 
into the Pacific (“northern” California). On Arthur 
Okamura’‘s color map, the separate country appears as 
concentric circles with grassland in the middle, then a 
ring of oaks and another of conifers. 
Like the periodical 
Planet/Drum, the book js a collection — essays such as 
Albert Saijo’s so gentle and intelligent, “Me, Muir and 
Sierra Nevada”; Joe Kim’s personal telling of the Chinese 
along the Sacramento and the Yuba floods and_the 
University of Chicago Press 
11030 South Langley Ave. 
Sudan, Bari Village. A closely knit social group occupies 
the compact and fenced-in space of this village. Here life 
is immediate, and the traditional huts are part of the 
landscape. The relationship between man and man and 
man and nature is intimate and direct. 
It is an “I-Thou” 
and reciprocal contact. 
e 
Generally speaking, the plants which follow man around 
the world might be said to do so, not because they relish 
what man has done to the environment, but because 
they can stand it and most other plants cannot. 
Almost every change in environmental conditions which 
man can make results in some change in the water econ- 
omy or water budget at the earth’s surface. 
miraculous escape of the Bok | temple; science senses 
by Ray Dasmann, Bob Curry and Dennis Breedlove; 
poems, stories and pop economic theory. 
In the long-term 
theatre of Save-the-Planet, this is a heroic first step to 
stop time, take stock and give priority to local economy, 
watershed eco-systems and a “now primitive” cu/ture. 
—Peter Warshall 
Reinhabiting a 
Separate Country 
(A Bioregional Anthology 
of Northern California) 
Peter Berg, Editor 
1978; 220 pp. 
$8 Postpaid from 
Planet/Drum Foundation 
Box 31251 
San Francisco, CA 94131 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Muir the Preservationist added Guardian function to 
Thoreau's Witness function. Now through them we are 
to be the Guardian-Witness of Earth Sacrament. 
Planet/Drum 
By the originators of Reinhabiting a Separate Country 
and of the term “reinhabitation,”’ Planet/Drum /s a sort 
of membership which gets you 4 newsletters annually, 
some privileged access to people and books, and a Bundle. 
Each year’s Bundle is a selection of context-shifting 
oddments on such subjects as the Rockies, Watershed 
dwelling, etc. Exploratory thinking and publishing. 
=SB 
Planet/Drum 
P.O. Box 31251 
$10 /year membership 
San Francisco, CA 94131 
from: 
Planet/Drum Foundation 
° 
Think of the Rocky Mountains as a sunburst or star — its 
rays are patterns of water and soil moving across North 
America. Soil fertility from the cornfields of Indiana to 
the delta of the Columbia in Oregon is owed to nutrients 
eroded from the Rockies by wind and water. 
90% of all water in the major rivers west of the Mississippi 
(excluding Northern California) rises in the Rockies. 
Seventy-one cubic miles per year flows through the 
Columbia alone. 
40% of the productivity of cereal grains in the Midwest 
and Plains is due to Rockies soil. 
80% of vegetables grown west of the Mississippi (excluding 
California and Oregon) gain their nutrients from Rockies- 
derived soil. 
Wild grasses and brush on 40% of all cattle lands in the 
continental United States grow in soil drifted from 
the Rockies. 
People in the Rockies live in the heart of the star. People 
living in the Mississippi Delta, on the edges of the Bering 
Sea and the Gulf of California, around the Hudson Bay, 
people at the far reaches of the rays, all watch Rockies 
water go by. 
aie 
e 
stale. 
6 e606 
a 6 
6-0 
0) 
6s 
ore 
#8 
6 6 
6X8." 
0! 
0 
6) 
0 8 0 G6 
Og 
et 
ele 
6 
CK 
ee 
6 a6 
wee 
a6 
C6 
6 8 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
REINHABITATION _ 47 
sek) Sak 
Belgian Congo, copper-miners’ village. 
Unity through 
repetition is the characteristic note of this cantonment for 
the workers in the copper mines. 
The pathetic attempt to 
retain something of the indigenous style by putting 
thatched roofs on the standardized huts is an outward 
symbol of the helplessness and confusion of an atomized 
society which has spread its tentacles to this remote 
Part of the world. The workers and their families living 
in these cells are uprooted and depersonalized beings and 
trained as human automata. They are estranged from 
nature and from each other. 
Life in this regimented 
agglomeration of huts has lost its immediacy and imposed 
all the prerequisites of an indirect and impersonal existence, 
of an “‘I-It’”’ relationship. 
The grove of Cedrus libani at Les Cedres, Lebanon, 
protected remnant of a forest that once covered the 
intermediate slopes of the Lebanon Range. | 
Reinhabitation means learning to live-in-place in an area that 
has been disrupted and injured through past exploitation. 
It 
involves becoming native to a place through becoming aware 
of the particular ecological relationships that operate within 
and around it. It means understanding activities and evolving 
social behavior that will enrich the life of that place, restore 
its life-supporting systems, and establish an ecologically and 
socially sustainable pattern of existence within it. Simply 
stated it involves becoming fully alive in and with a place. 
It involves applying for membership in a biotic community 
and ceasing to be its exploiter. 
We define bioregion in a sense different from the biotic 
province of Dasmann (1973) or the biogeographical province 
of Udvardy (1975). The term refers both to geographical 
terrain and a terrain of consciousness — to a place and the 
ideas that have developed about how to live in that place. 
eee 
eee 
eee 
ee 
eee eee 
eer ee 
ees 
e eee eeees 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
What happened was that there was this Depression 
and nobody had jobs so Roosevelt started the 
WPA to give people jobs even though giving jobs 
was more expensive than the dole and part of the 
WPA was arty and part of the arty part was the 
Federal Writers’ Project. But it was hard to figure 
what to have the writers write because if they 
wrote what they wanted all Republican and most 
Democrat Congressmen would have heart attacks 
and withdraw funding because writers then were 
very political and very left. (Something about the 
Depression made them think capitalism didn’t 
work and wasn’t kind.) So someone came up with 
the idea (in those days there were many ideas in 
Washington and some of them worked) of having 
them write guidebooks — a guidebook for travel- 
ers for each state. 
Interesting idea because Americans were just getting 
that there was a way to be about America besides 
H.L. Mencken cynicism and 4th of July babbling 
enthusiasm — looking at the folk and the land as 
they were and seeing something good. A Woody 
Guthrie way, in fact, and the Federal Writers’ 
Project guidebooks are the encyclopedia to illus- 
trate “This Land Is Your Land,” and they’re still 
a hell of a read. 
iM 
continued on next spread 
2 
age 
ewpere 
bee ea 
r. PS. 
