404 
= 
in. « ie 
ee 
Ea 
7 
se Se eae 
Pe 
NOMADICS 
CARS 
CARS - NOW 
by J. Baldwin 
T’S TOO LATE. The U.S.A. has been 
settled and built up in a way that 
Tequires most people to have access 
to acar. Those who don’t own a car use someone 
else’s car anyway — a taxi, a piously hitchhiked 
trip, a borrowed machine, a rental. As you may 
have noticed, buying and running a car is a major 
item in the family budget. 
It has always been. 
In the 1950s, owning a car took proportionately 
more of the total family income than it does now, 
though that is hard to believe. Most people have 
not looked very carefully at what their car really 
costs them anyway. 
It works out to about 10 
cents a mile for an old VW to maybe 35 cents 
a mile for 
anew $7000 model. More than 
you’d probably think. 
There are ways of reducing the costs of automo- 
biling. Start by driving less. P’'ve managed to whip 
my mileage down to about 5000 a year from 
30,000 or more. 
I’ve done this mostly by combin- 
ing trips (planning a bit) and by using my bike a 
lot for minor errands. 
I don’t live where there is 
mass transit from where I am to where I wish to go; 
a common failing of that transportation method. 
Reducing driving may raise your cost per mile 
because such things as insurance remain about 
the same, but overall outlay can be reduced drama- 
tically and your energy conscience will feel better. 
Another way to reduce costs is to car pool. If you 
are reasonably sure you will be keeping the same 
schedule for awhile, then a car pool can be good 
sense. A van is ideal for this despite the poor 
mileage because the passenger mileage per dollar 
and per gallon is still very good. Van pooling can 
have tax advantages. Some states have special 
express lanes for vans. Parking fees are cut too. A 
few areas have van jitneys you can call or subscribe 
to. In many cases, such a service will save you 
money as well as reducing national Arab troubles. 
Obviously, a way to reduce car expenses is to drive 
asmall economy model, but you should examine 
this option carefully. For instance, a friend of 
mine recently considered giving up her old Dodge 
because it got terrible gas mileage. A little calcu- 
lator pounding showed that a new Honda Civic 
would pay itself off in gasoline saved compared 
to the Dodge in 200,000 miles over an 18 year 
period. The interest on the new Honda would 
more than pay for a complete overhaul of the 
Dodge. The payments, license, and insurance on 
the new “economy car” would add up to doubling 
the cost per mile she now thinks is excessive! As 
long as there is no rationing, the old reliable gas 
pig may be the best way to go if you already have 
one. And one must keep in mind that the smaller 
cars are not as safe as the bigger ones, though this 
will not always be so. 
A compromise might be to buy a used pre-smog 
control compact car. (Smog controls tend to age 
awkwardly.) A ‘66 Dodge Dart would be a good 
choice. It is easy to justify a $1000 overhaul of 
such a car. In effect you recycle it, thus saving the 
energy that was required to manufacture it. Your 
miles per dollar would likely be as low as you can 
get. But what if an old hungry car isn’t for you? 
What is a good car these days? 
In my not particularly humble opinion, one of the 
front wheel drive cars would be a good choice. 
I’d 
go Honda as first pick. Their reputation is deserv- 
edly good. Rabbit, Fiesta, Subaru (now much 
Citroen Visa is roomy, very economical (40-50 mpg), 
and lively, all with the typical Citroen big-car smooth 
ride. Not imported, alas. 
improved and with 4 wheel drive in sedans too), 
Toyota Tercel, Le Car, Champ — all offer interior 
space rivaling that of much larger cars, trunk 
included. Front drive gives a number of important 
advantages: wind stability, good traction in snow 
and mud, larger interior in a given size car, and 
inherently safe handling. 
If you haven’t taken a 
test drive in such a car, you may be surprised. 
General Motors’ so-called “‘X” cars are of similar 
layout and offer similar advantages in a larger car, 
as does Saab. There will be more and more such 
cars until most are of this configuration. That’s 
good. I would advise waiting a few years before 
buying an all-new model though. Many manufac- 
turers (I was about to say reputable manufacturers 
but in the car business there aren’t any) use the 
first batch they make as a field test. You don’t 
want one of those, new or used. A good place to 
check the reputation of a make and model is in 
Consumer Reports magazine (p. 352). Their 
annual auto issue and their Annual Buying Guide 
(at your local library) show reliability for recent 
models. You can check the Buying Guide for past 
years to see about older ones. You local indepen- 
dent mechanic also knows. 
A hatchback or wagon is the best way to go for 
most people, as these bodies have more room and 
versatility — critical in a smaller car. You'll want 
radial tires. They last longer, are safer, and give 
about three more miles per gallon because they 
roll easier. Rustproofing treatment that is sprayed 
into the doors and frame (not mere “‘undercoating”’) 
will make the machine last a lot longer if you live 
in salt country. 
‘“‘Polly glop coat” and other 
special wax jobs do not help; don’t waste your 
money. Five speed transmissions will pay their 
way if you do a lot of highway work. City mice 
need not bother; in fact a five speed may actually 
worsen city mileage. Buy a light, bright, non-metal- 
lic color. White, for instance, reflects the sun and 
may make an air conditioner unnecessary even in 
hot climates. (Air conditioners commonly eat 3 to 
5 miles per gallon.) My measurements show a 
white car to be about 35 degrees cooler than a 
black one under the same conditions. Lighter 
colors are generally easier to see and are thus 
safer. Stay away from silver and other metallic 
Keeping tires at the right pressure uses less fuel, is safer, 
and saves on tire wear. Gas station gauges are often very 
inaccurate. 
Having one of your own is best. 
Here’s a good 
one: Accu-Gage, $12.49, manufactured by G.H. Meiser 
Honda Civic Wagon. The 1980 Wagon has much more 
total cargo room than its predecessor. Stowage space 
behind the rear seat has been increased by almost five 
Cubic feet. There’s more passenger room. 
The rear doors 
are wider. And the tailgate is bigger for easier loading. 
colors. Not only are they less visible, the metallic 
content of the paint tends to deteriorate faster 
thus encouraging cancer of the panel. If you need 
a roof rack, use a “Quik-N-Easy” (p. 447) or 
some other removable type — racks steal about 
one mile per gallon just sitting there with nothing 
on them. If a smaller car won’t carry your stuff, 
perhaps it’s time to think about what it is you are 
carrying. If you need a van once a year, rent it; 
you'll still come out ahead. 
What about a diesel? They don’t cost any less to 
run than a gasoline car after you figure in the 
expensive fuel filter replacements, more frequent 
oil changes, larger battery and heavy-duty starter 
maintenance. Moreover, diesels DO need what 
amounts to a “tune-up” despite what the ads say. 
That’s a tune-up that you cannot do yourself 
either. A careful reading of the ads will also reveal 
that no claim of 
longer lifespan for the diesel is 
made. Oh yes, they imply it, but don’t claim it. 
Truck diesels do last longer but car diesels may or 
may not, depending on conditions. Olds, for 
instance, comes right out and says that their 
diesel lasts about the same as a gasoline engine. 
Diesels do get better fuel mileage, but the diesel 
price advantage is rapidly on the way out as 
demand increases. Most diesel cars must be driven 
40,000 miles or so before the fuel saved pays for 
the premium price paid for the motor. 
If you 
keep your diesel till overhaul time, the added 
costs of working over the injector pump and other 
special parts will soon reduce any overall economies 
to approximately the gasoline level. 
Then there is the matter of fuel availability, 
especially on Sunday night on the way back from 
Lake Tehatchapoocoo. And the fuel congeals in 
cold weather, making all sorts of witchcraft neces- 
sary to keep things humming, assuming you can 
get things started at all. What it adds up to is that 
a diesel only makes sense for someone who com- 
mutes in mild weather. That’s not very many of 
us. Even the supposed smog reduction has turned 
out to be mostly myth. 
I’ll stick to gasoline or 
some version of it. 
What other ways are there for cutting auto expense? 
Maintain it! With the cost of repairs and new cars 
getting out of hand, good maintenance will pay 
more than ever. Change the oil when you should 
and oftener in winter or under other bad condi- 
tions. 
If your car has grease fittings, hit them 
often, even every day if you are driving on gravel 
or salty roads. Use good oil. Castrol, Quaker 
State, Pennzoil are good brands. Buy it by the 
case at K-Mart and change it yourself. It costs 
half as much as having the gas station do it, it 
gets done right, and doing it yourself takes less 
time too. Another advantage is that you can 
inspect your machine for incipient troubles like 
loose muffler clamps. 
Try to avoid short trips, especially in cold weather. 
Running a car less than six to ten miles doesn’t 
let it work up enough to evaporate the acid by- 
products of cold starts, contributing greatly to 
engine wear. Keep an eye on your tires. Check 
the pressure often and watch for uneven wear. 
When the battery wears out, replace it with one 
with caps. The “maintenance-free” models are 
alot more trouble than the “‘old fashioned”’ types. 
I’ve had good luck with the Sears Die Hard (see 
Sears Catalog, p. 348) under very poor operating 
conditions. Generally speaking it pays to keep a 
car in good shape overall. Otherwise, it gets too 
discouraging and you become vulnerable to new 
car fever, an expensive malady. The whole idea is 
to avoid becoming the slave of the car. 
Of course we are all slaves of the cars anyway with 
our society set up as it is. Unless there are some 
unexpected changes, we will soon be forced to do 
something about our car habit. Driving less, 
keeping an economical car longer, and flapping 
your legs a bit will reduce the need for your car, 
and consequently make the transition away from a 
car-wastrel existence easier. There will soon be 
no choice. 
® 
