COMMUNICATIONS 
 ©fe€W WAVE 
itl PRICIT 
by Jay Kinney 
RINT IS AT BEST A CLUE. 
Ifa punk 
group’s record is a far cry from the im- 
mediacy of its live performance, then 
reading a printed article about that 
record is twice as abstract. 
Nevertheless, few of us have the opportunity (or 
stamina) to be front and center at every punk/new 
wave show in every urban scene. 
Similarly, the 
proliferation of groups with self-produced 45s, 
EPs (extended-play records), and small (as well as 
major) label albums makes it difficult to keep 
track of the best recorded sounds. 
In some circles, 
word-of-mouth does the job, and the enthusiasm 
of a trusted friend is still the best testimonial. 
However, failing that, there are several new wave 
publications which share news, reviews, and inter- 
views — often in a visually-tactile style which is a 
graphic analog to the music. There are also a 
number of allied publications falling within the 
vague new wave genre that traffic in areas besides 
music: ads as art, art as style, and life-style as put- 
on. To the degree that there is an all-encompassing 
new wave sensibility developing (an arguable 
notion), it is at least partially reflected here too. 
AF 
The Residents by B.C. Kagan, New York Rocker 
512 NEW WAVE MAGAZINES 
CONTACT 
BRACKET 
The tilt mechanism 
Slash 
Slash is an irreverent and snotty monthly tabloid 
from L.A. which somehow manages to convey an 
honesty and intelligence that is certainly absent 
in 99% of the slick media. Kickboy Face, Chatty 
Chatty Mouth, Ranking Jeffrey Lea and other 
staff writers review local concerts, mounds of 45s 
and LPs, and interview a wide range of musicians 
and performers. Correspondents in London and 
San Francisco keep tabs on those scenes, while 
Slash’s own “Local Shit” column does the same for 
southern California. Cartoonist Gary Panter is on 
hand each issue with a bizarre comics page featuring 
neanderthal punker Jimbo. Highly recommended. 
Slash, P.O. Box 48888, Los Angeles, CA 90048. $12/year 
(12 issues), Claude Bessy and Philomena, Editors. 
fiew York Rocker 
New York Rocker is fatter than Slash and increas- 
ingly pop-oriented, probably a reflection of its 
location in N.Y. where the scene is older and, by 
now, more jaded. 
Its editorial stance is slightly 
removed from it all and of late there has been an 
upsurge of perfunctory pop-journalism in its 
pages. A central new wave organ nevertheless. 
New York Rocker, 166 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 
10010. $11/year (11 issues). Andy Schwartz, Editor. 
Trouser Press 
Trouser Press began over 6 years ago as an Anglo- 
philic rock fanzine and has since grown into a 
color-covered slick with a strong new wave and 
progressive rock coverage. The TP tends to take 
a historical approach to the groups covered with 
often exhaustive attention to chronology and 
background of the musicians. TP is still heavily 
weighted in favor of British groups with record 
contracts, but columns also cover domestic 
“underground” 45s, other rock media, and 
plenty of new LPs. Narrow but deep. 
Trouser Press, P.O. Box B, Old Chelsea Station, New 
York, NY 10011. $12/year (12 issues). Scott 
Isler, Editor. 
Katherine Latanville by George Whiteside, Impulse 
{ 
fiew Musical Express 
New Musical Express, the long-running English 
rock weekly, is the best means of keeping up on 
the ever-changing contours of the British punk 
and new wave scene. The leftist-tinged staff 
manages to keep readers aware of the machina- 
tions of the music industry as it interacts with 
bands. New groups are touted early by NME, 
though they subsequently come in for heavy criti- 
cism for “selling out” by the time said groups 
release their second albums. 
If this route seems a 
bit pat, still it is in unique contrast to say, Rolling 
Stone, where the difference between ads and edi- 
torial content is often hard to discern. 
New Musical Express, Room 2613, Kings Reach Tower, 
Stamford Street, London SE] 9LS, England. $52/ 
year (52 issues). Jim Watts, Editor. Make checks 
payable to IPC Magazines. 
ALL OF THE ABOVE periodicals are professional 
to one degree or another and make stabs at keeping 
their readers informed of new wave developments 
in at least the major cities. Legions of small- 
circulation punk fanzines and papers serving local 
scenes in smaller cities may have a more limited 
scope but often beat the larger rags for vitality. 
Since fanzines are produced by fans, not jour- 
nalists, they tend to rise and fall following the 
trajectory of enthusiasm. Xeroxed or quick- 
printed, their circulations rarely exceed a couple of 
hundred (if that), and to list them here would be 
akin to promoting your grandma’s kitchen in the 
Michelin Restaurant Guide. The point is to keep 
your eyes open for your hometown fanzine(s) 
|
or start your own. 
Neverthless, a few scene-bind- 
ing publications look like they’ll be around for 
awhile (maybe) and are worth noting. This 
selection merely scratches the surface. 
