\ 
! 
t 
, 
extensive coverage of both U.S. and Third 
World politics. When Irwin Silber, the 
Guardian’s executive editor and film critic 
split with the paper in 1979, many of the 
Guardian Clubs (a network of support 
groups for the paper) left with him. 
These clubs, now known as the National 
Network of Marxist-Leninist Clubs 
(NNMLC) believe that the remaining 
New Communist Movement must get its 
theoretical chops together before a Party 
can be built. This is called the “Rectifi- 
cation” Line and is in apparent conflict 
with the Organizing Committee for an 
Ideological Center (LC/IC) whose 
“Fusion” Line calls for the remaining 
M-Lers to “fuse” with the working class 
while building the Party. The founding 
force behind the OC/IC is the Philadelphia 
Workers Organizing Committee, led by 
Clay Newlin. 
The Guardian (Independent radical news- 
weekly), Jack A. Smith, Editor, $17/year 
(50 issues), from Guardian, 33 West 17th 
Street, New York, NY 10011 
The Line of March (Journal of Rectifica- 
tion of the National Network of Marxist- 
Leninist Clubs), $12.50/year (24 issues), 
from Institute for Scientific Socialism, 
964 Valencia Street, San Francisco, 
CA 94110 
The Organizer (Newspaper of the Phila- 
delphia Workers Organizing Committee), 
$10/year (12 issues), from PWOC, Box 
1168, Philadelphia, PA 19101 
Like a small island of relative sanity in 
the middle of this arcane madness, the 
Tucson Marxist-Leninist Collective pub- 
lishes the Theoretical Review, a modest 
bimonthly which prints firsthand 
accounts of Leninist groups’ histories, 
along with debates between M-L groups 
involved in these party-building talks. 
Theoretical Review (A Journal of Marxist- 
Leninist Theory and Discussion), $8/year 
(6 issues), from The Theoretical Review, 
P.O. Box 3692, Tucson, AZ 87522 
Libertarian Left 
The problems of the Leninists are a source 
of some relief to another strain of aspiring 
revolutionaries who have opposed Lenin- 
ism and its hierarchical, centralized party 
all along. Leninism’s decline has been 
matched by the slow but steady growth of 
an outlook often called Libertarian 
Socialism (or Libertarian Communism or 
sometimes Ultra-Leftism). Some ultra- 
leftists trace their roots to the “Council” 
Communists of the post-1918 period who 
proposed rule by mass assemblies (e.g., 
Workers’ Councils) as an alternative to 
either State or Party rule following the 
Revolution. Others emphasize the impor- 
tance of balancing personal autonomy 
with social cooperation. Most see the task 
of revolutionaries as agitation and clarifi- 
cation of ideas rather than “leadership.” 
But all agree that without the abolition 
of wage labor and the State a revolution 
is just a changing of the guard. To the 
libertarian left, the countries usually 
labeled socialist or communist are no such 
thing, but exploitative class societies 
where bureaucrats call the shots instead 
of corporate execs. 
While in the U.S. such views are held by 
a minority on the Left, they have become 
quite popular in parts of Western Europe 
recently. The most notable case is the 
Italian “Autonomy” movement of the 
mid-’70s, which brought together tens 
of thousands of young workers and 
unemployed in a revolt against both the 
Christian Democrat government and the 
Communist Party. 
There is no uniform attitude toward Marx 
among the libertarian left. Some groups 
call themselves Marxist, and stick closely 
to their own interpretation of Marx’s 
social-economic analysis. Others draw 
eclectically on Marx to varying degrees. 
Internationalism is the North American 
section of the International Communist 
Current (ICC) — the largest organization 
on the ultra-left, linking groups in 9 
different countries. The ICC holds that 
labor unions, “National Liberation” 
struggles, and the “socialist” countries as 
well as the democratic-socialist and 
Leninist Left are all thoroughly integrated 
into the world capitalist system. Thus 
workers can look only to themselves to 
organize a revolution. While there is a 
certain elegance to the ICC’s across-the- 
board critique, this is undercut by a 
turgid writing style and sectarian de- 
meanor Virtually guaranteed to alienate 
everyone not already convinced. 
internationalism, 
$4.50/year (4 issues), 
from Internationalism, P.O. Box 961, 
Manhattanville Station, 365 West 125th 
Street, New York, NY 10027 
Root and Branch, “A Libertarian Marxist 
journal” from the Boston area, holds views 
similar to the ICC’s although they diverge 
on one or two significant points. For 
instance, the two groups hold differing 
versions of Marxian “crisis theory” — 
pointing at different causes for the present 
crisis of the System. In general R&B’s 
approach is more flexible and open- 
minded than the ICC. The journal pub- 
lishes excellent in-depth analyses of 
current world events as well as expositions 
of economic theory. 
Root and Branch, $8/year (4 issues), from 
Root and Branch, Box 236, Somerville, 
MA 02143 
Red Menace is a tabloid published irregu- 
larly by the Libertarian Socialist Collective 
in Toronto, Canada. 
It features extensive 
debates between various groups and indi- 
viduals within the libertarian left, both 
socialist and anarchist, particularly over 
the validity of Marxian ideas. It has a 
stronger emphasis on “‘personal politics” 
than R&B, and its most interesting 
features are firsthand accounts of work- 
place and community organizing. 
The Red Menace (A Libertarian Socialist 
Newsletter), $3/year (12 issues), from 
The Red Menace, P.O. Box 171, Postal 
Station D, Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
Most growth on the libertarian left has 
been in local groups such as Philadelphia 
Solidarity. Originally part of a split-off 
from the Socialist Labor Party (see be- 
low), this group has an anti-authoritarian 
brand of politics heavily influenced by 
Cornelius Castoriadus, the French 
tadical critic of Marxism. The group’s 
main activity is a local libertarian 
socialist bookstore, Wooden Shoe, and 
mail-order book service. In addition it 
co-edits a newsletter Synthesis with the 
League for Economic Democracy, another 
SLP breakaway. 
Synthesis (An anti-authoritarian news- 
letter of citizen-worker self-management 
ideas and activities), Published irregularly, 
$.40/1 issue, from League for Economic 
Democracy, P.O. Box 1858, San Pedro, 
CA 90733 
Most of these groups are heavily involved 
with the printed word as their main 
propaganda medium. An exception, and 
perhaps a sign of things to come, is the 
Bay Area based Union of Concerned 
Commies. The UCC began as a one- 
shot collaboration between libertarian 
communists around the 1979 Three Mile 
Island protests. Since then it has continued 
to be active in the anti-nuke/anti-draft 
movement in various ways. The UCC is 
most notable for its ventures into street 
theatre which feature sardonically funny 
attacks on the straight left, the military, 
wage labor, and organized religion. Most 
recently, the group has extended its 
satirical style into cable TV, an upcoming 
series on the listener-owned radio station, 
and a rock band, the Funktionaries. 
Union of Concerned Commies, Informa- 
tion free from UCC, Box 1200, 2000 
Center Street, Berkeley, CA 94704 
By far the oldest group on the U.S. liber- 
tarian left is the Socialist Labor Party. 
Founded by Daniel DeLeon in 1897 as a 
radical breakaway from the Socialist 
Party, the SLP advocates a “Socialist 
Industrial Unionism,” their plan for 
society to be administered by the workers 
through a system of democratic, industry- 
based organizations. The similarity of 
these ideas with those of the newer 
groups is obvious, especially since several 
of them came out of the SLP itself. How- 
ever, while the SLP continues to publish a 
fairly intelligent and readable paper, the 
People, its schema for the new society 
looks a little cobwebby since the majority 
of U.S. workers are now employed in 
‘“industries” like insurance, chain stores 
and fast food. 
The People (Newspaper of the Socialist 
Labor Party), $4/year (26 issues), from 
The People, 914 Industrial Avenue, 
Palo Alto, CA 94303 
The SLP attempted early on to become 
the political arm of the Industrial Workers 
of the World (IWW), a revolutionary labor 
union founded at the turn of the century 
which once claimed tens of thousands of 
members among loggers, miners, textile 
workers and migrants. The old-time 
“wobblies” have been in the spotlight 
recently as the subject of a new docu- 
mentary film. Less well known is the 
small but continuing presence of the IWW 
as organizers of low-paid workers in the 
U.S. and Canada. The union, which 
rejects “politics” but stands for the abo- 
lition of the wage system and against 
“business unionism,” publishes a news- 
paper, the Industrial Worker, out of its 
Chicago headquarters. 
The Industrial Worker, $4/year (12 
issues), from 3435 North Sheffield, Suite 
202, Chicago, IL 60657 
Anarchists 
Libertarian socialism used to be a term 
used interchangeably with Anarchism, 
and even now it is difficult to make a 
solid distinction between the two. There 
are probably as many varieties of anar- 
chism as there are anarchists, from the 
hard-core individualist types who follow 
the lead of Max Stirner (author of The 
Ego and His Own), to anarchist-commu- 
nists who owe some debts to Marx and 
work side by side with groups like the 
UCC. For all of them, though, maximum 
individual freedom is the ultimate goal 
against which all political schemes should 
be measured. Government and laws are 
coercion, so is wage-labor, and the sooner 
we realize this and-abolish them, the 
better. In the absence of a State, anar- 
chists believe that a “natural” order will 
emerge among humans — an extension of 
the cooperative tendency which makes it 
possible for people to live and work 
together in the first place. 
The anarchist position is an uncompromis- 
ing one and there is little love lost between 
anarchists and the rest of the left, whom 
they are fond of criticizing for authori- 
tarian tendencies. 
After a stretch of scattered demoraliza- 
tion in the early ’70s, anarchists are 
presently on an organizational upswing. 
Like libertarian socialists they are active in 
anti-nuke affairs, and a strong “‘anarcha- 
feminist” current is becoming influential 
in the more aggressive wing of the 
Women’s Movement. 
The Social Revolutionary Anarchist 
Federation (SRAF) was the first major 
attempt by local U.S. anarchist groups to 
federate about seven years ago. The 
groups and individuals have kept in touch 
through the “‘anything goes” SRAF 
Bulletin which often features intense 
arguments between every kind of anar- 
chist under the sun. These days SRAF is 
on the wane and the letters in the Bulletin 
tend to express individual obsessions, 
worn-out debates and obscure points of 
dogma, with little connection to social 
and political reality. 
The SRA Federation Bulletin for Anarch- 
ist Agitators, $6/year (6 issues), from 
SRAF Print, Box 52, Cottage Grove, 
OR 97424 
In 1978, six or seven of the more militant 
SRAF affiliates became fed up with 
SRAF’s lack of cohesive activities and 
split off to form the Anarchist Communist 
Federation (ACF). The ACF publishes the 
North American Anarchist, the only bi- 
monthly anarchist newspaper on the 
continent, and is involved in anti-nuke, 
labor and prison organizing here and in 
Canada. As its name suggests, the federa- 
tion, now numbering a dozen member 
groups, has a much stronger “class” orien- 
tation than SRAF, and identifies itself 
with the Spanish anarcho-syndicalist labor 
confederation, the CNT. 
North American Anarchist (The News- 
Paper Devoted to Direct Action), $5/year 
(6 issues), from The North American 
Anarchist, P.O. Box 2, Station O, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada M4B 2B0 
While the ACF’s newspaper and propagan- 
dizing style (such as reprinting 60-year old 
essays as pamphlets) are all too reminiscent 
of other leftist circles, there is another 
North American anarchist paper whose 
visual dazzle, varied articles and non- 
sectarian posture make it stand alone 
on the Left in conveying a mood of self- 
assured professionalism. This is Open 
Road from Vancouver. OR was started 
in the summer of 1976 and has come out 
with 12 issues so far — averaging about 
3 per year. 
In its efforts to be non- 
sectarian, OR has shown a tendency to 
cheerlead every challenge to authority 
from most any quarter, as if all were 
equally commendable, though this has 
been changing for the better with 
recent issues. 
Open Road, 2 hrs. wages/year (3-4 issues), 
from The Open Road, Box 6135, Station G, 
Vancouver, BC, Canada V6R 4G5 
If the ACF paper and OR are the mass- 
oriented periodicals of the movement, 
Black Rose, out of Boston, is its best 
theoretical journal. Elegantly produced 
on a small budget, BR features intelligent 
open-minded articles on world politics, 
psychiatry, art and literature, as well as 
the theory and philosophy of anarchism. 
Black Rose, $6/year (4 issues), from Black 
Rose, P.O. Box 1075, Boston, MA 02103 
Last but not least, is the Fifth Estate, an 
occasional tabloid-format journal. FE 
used to be Detroit’s main underground 
rag in the 60s but in 1973 was taken over 
by a group of anarchists, libertarian 
communists, and assorted hard-core 
radical crazies. 
Its evolution from that 
time on has moved through flirtations 
with ICC-type Ultra-leftism, and exotic 
French post-marxist theorists, to its 
present total critique which might be best 
summed up as “anti-civilization.” 
Throughout its evolution away from all 
“isms,” FE has maintained a wicked sense 
of humor, often running pointed ad 
satires and mock posters which are then 
reprinted and posted by their readers. 
Strictly speaking, FE isn’t purely anar- 
chist in the traditional sense, but like the 
UCC, an expression of a local left-liber- 
tarian milieu which has also spawned 
rock bands, theater, and various illegal 
and semi-legal direct action tactics. 
Fifth Estate, $4/year (6 issues), from The 
Fifth Estate, 4403 Second Avenue, 
Detroit, MI 48201 
Outro 
Any long-term, meaningful social change, 
be it reform or revolution, is never 
imposed from above but comes from our 
own determination and desires. To the 
degree that it is open to mass participation 
the Left has a role to play. Whether that 
role will shrink or grow in the days ahead 
isup tous. 
# 
