4, 
st 
, 
424 OUTDOOR GEAR 
LeBel’s outdoor industry survey continued from last Page 
COMPANY REVIEWS 
The North Face, 1234 Fifth Street, Berkeley, CA 94710. 
Begun 12 years ago in the back room of a Berkeley store. 
Now holds 50% market share in the specialty backpacking 
market in bags and parkas and is rapidly growing in packs 
and tents. Still independently owned and operated by 
K. Hap Klopp. (Through an ESOP Program all employees 
share in some portion of company ownership.) 
The 
North Face is this industry’s Primary steady keel and 
innovative source. 
Introduced the Original internal frame 
panel-loading rucksack as well as the original geodesic 
tents. 
The down-tilled gear is incomparable in consis- 
tently excellent materials and construction via the 
extensive quality control program from which the entire 
Product line benefits. Excellent warranty and repairs 
program. 
(This is where | work.) Catalog free. 
Sierra Designs, 247 Fourth Street, Oakland, CA 94607. 
Founded by two campers looking for a source of quality 
equipment. 
George Marks, one of the founders, is still 
the designer. Sierra Designs is now owned by C.M._L. of 
Concord, MA. 
Their stitching is excellent but materials 
Quality is inconsistent. 
Nice parkas, decent bags (high- 
lighted by several unique construction techniques), funky 
| 
tents; good people. 
Catalog free. 
JanSport, Paine Field Industrial Park, Everett, WA 98204. 
Owned by K2 (of downhill ski fame). 
Their frame packs 
shine, and other product designs are also differable from 
the crowd. 
The sewing is inconsistent however, and 
some of the specialized components (as the pack frame 
connections) are not known for their longevity. Examine 
carefully the particular unit you may buy for its 
workmanship. 
Catalog free. 
Trailwise, 2407 Fourth Street, Berkeley, CA 94710. 
Owned by Boss Industries, 
Kewanee, IL, a manufacturer 
of work gloves. One of the original manufacturers of 
alpine equipment, but too extended in product offering 
for their scale. Limited recent innovation. 
Generally 
i! 
ze 
, 
“ 
Y 
, 
eee: 
ae 
¢ 
CRP 
Oy 
ES ee 
Eee 
Mae 
ae 
ete 
acceptable designs and quality, but production ineffici- 
ency results in their higher prices. Catalog free. 
Holubar, P.O. Box 7, Boulder, CO 80306. Owned by 
Johnson Wax. Still maintains much of the materials and 
construction consistency well-founded by Alice and Roy 
Holubar over 32 years of manufacturing. 
They are, 
however, relying more and more on outside suppliers as 
Johnson Wax also owns Eureka tents and Camp Trails. 
Holubar offers most of its products in kit form as well 
as ready sewn. 
Catalog free. 
Marmot Mountain Works, 331 South 13th, Grand 
Junction, CO 81501. Independent and claiming to be 
at the utmost peak of quality, MMW products were found 
by this reviewer to be functionally inconsistent, mostly 
from sewing problems, more often than any other manu- 
facturer | have examined. 
Very disappoin ting. They 
seem to emphasize design frills, costly materials, and in 
my view unnecessarily costly production methods (such 
as “hot cutting” individual fabric pieces). Cost vs. 
performance seems to offer a low relative value, except 
in a few cases such as their vest. 
Class 5, 1480 66th Street, Emeryville, CA 94608. Owned 
and operated by the original designer for The North Face, 
Justus Bauschinger. Another “pinnacle” company that’s 
not quite what it’s claimed: again, production inefficien- 
cies primarily as a result of small scale. Good Products, 
but also more costly for little if any gain in actual 
performance. 
Catalog free. 
Wilderness Experience, 20675 Nordhoff Street, Chats- 
worth, CA 91311. 
The Thompson brothers run a small 
scale, reasonable quality operation. 
Their packs are 
adequately constructed (could be better reinforced) but 
seem to be priced more towards what the market can bear 
rather than from a percentage over costs. 
Very few in- 
house designs apparent. 
They seem to sell through a 
number of outlets which lack adequate product know- 
ledge. Catalog free. 
Lowe Alpine Systems, P.O. Box 189, Lafayette, CO 
80026. The Lowe family are renowned rock and ice 
climbers, specialists in climbing gear, and have had some 
BACKPACKS 
DAYPACKS 
Comparing materials and design, construction, and price, 
there are a large number of excellent daypacks available. 
Differences are scarcely discernible. JanSport, Kelty, 
The North Face, and Wilderness Experience are consist- 
ently recommendable. 
Be sure to carefully choose the 
design which best suits your needs, and do look for 
reinforced construction and warranty. 
INTERNAL FRAME PACKS 
a 
€ Kelty 
; 
Cinch Packs. Simultaneously adjust 
their capacity to your load and compress 
themselves to your body for comfort and 
balance, eliminating side-to-side sway and 
movement of gear. 
Pinnacle. Expedition-quality pack using 
18 oz. Ballistic cloth (to withstand the 
most extreme use) and a suspension 
system adapted from their Massif frame. 
Excellent design, construction and 
materials; high price. 
The North Face 
ee 
Ruthsac. The original panel-loading 
interior frame pack is still the excellent general purpose 
unit. 
Very comfortable fully adjustable suspension 
system (bend the contoured aluminum stays to fit the 
shape of your back precisely; no structural weakening). 
“Conical cut’ padded hip belt provides proper weight 
distribution through hips. Panel-loading allows access 
to every part of the compartment at any time, but 
requires careful packing. 
Crevasse. 
Designed primarily for skiing and climbing and 
thus refined in shape, fit, and attachment capabilities, 
this pack is adapted from the proven performance of the 
Ruthsac. When compared with similar packs available 
from other manufacturers, the Crevasse showed better 
reinforcement, better construction consistency, and a 
20% lower price for no sacrifice of features or 
performance capabilities. 
FRAME PACKS WITH “FIXED” 
SUSPENSION (hips and packframe are 
in a fixed position) 
Kelty packs have proven to be incontest- 
ably superior in design, construction, 
comfort and durability, and overall 
performance, primarily as a result of 
Dick Kelty’s extensive experience and 
ingenuity. Such features as the TIG 
€ Kelty Massif Tioga 
welded frames with their spoked structure, the frame 
extension option, and the unique camlock buckle on 
the waist belt make these packs perform. A variety of 
sack configurations are available for all three frame 
systems: Massif, for greatest durability; Mountaineer, 
for a lighter framepack; Stretch Frame, for the grow- 
ing backpacker. 
FRAME PACKS WITH “INDEPENDENT” 
SUSPENSION (allows hip motion independent 
of pack frame) 
JanSport. 
The waist suspension system on the Dhaula- 
giri and Alpine Phantom packs is in effect a load distribut- 
ing (limited) universal joint which allows for motion of 
the hips independent of the motion of the pack frame 
and increases the ability for the packer to shift the load 
from shoulders and back to waist as changes in terrain 
require. 
The adjustability of the frame and the suspen- 
sion system is 100% via machined aluminum cam fittings 
attaching the pack and waistbelt as well as for positioning 
frame crossbars. Several packsacks available; examine 
the stitching carefully as inconsistencies are prevalent. 
JanSport Alpine Phantom 
How the 
frame works 
The North Face. Back Magic independent suspension is 
realized through a patented joint made of nylon Zytel 
and a urethane elastomer which interfaces the frame with 
the waist suspension. 
The resuIt is an incredibly comfor- 
table load bearing system. Mobility, flexibility, and 
light weight surpass the JanSport system; however adjust- 
ability and load variability are not as great. Some view 
the joint as a structural weakness and fear its failure on 
a trek, but extensive research and design and testing of 
every joint prior to installation insures a reliable and 
durable frame pack offering the maximum comfort 
available for carrying a load on your back. 
of their innovative designs become industry standards. 
Their execution of the product shows a lack of manufac- 
turing experience, however. 
The entirely single-needle 
construction of their packs predicts limited longevity. 
Catalog free. 
Stephenson’s Warmlite, RFD 4, Box 145, Gilford, NH 
03246. Here is the real pinnacle, at least in their down 
bag design. 
You've got to pay for the crafted product, 
but to some it is certainly a worthwhile expense. 
This is 
a family-owned and operated company 
that has consis- 
tently held to its principles and has contributed much 
to the information needed for highest-performance 
products. Catalog $3. 
Down Home, West Fork Road, Deadwood, OR 97430. 
A young couple manufacturing (crafting) custom down 
bags of extremely high quality. Several esoteric features. 
Costly. Catalog $3. 
Recreational Equipment, Inc. (REI, the Co-op), P.O. 
Box C-88125, Seattle, WA 98188. One-stop shopping 
for its 1,000,000 co-op members, but shop carefully! 
Recent financial problems and changes in management 
portend a somewhat uncertain future. Emphasis on 
quality seems to have diminished. 
The Taiwan-sewn 
down parkas are a tragedy. 
The sleeping bags have been 
dangerously over-rated. 
RE! private label equipment is 
generally of median price and quality. Product selection 
and promotion is of variable value. Catalog free. 
Frostline, Dept. C., Frostline Circle, Denver, CO 80241. 
Now owned by Gillette Company. 
If you sew, you could 
save many dollars by constructing from a Frostline kit, 
plus have the pride of producing your own gear. 
The 
down bag and frame pack designs are weak points; you 
can get superior value in the marketplace. Many high 
quality kits, well tested for sewing ease with only a few 
hang-ups (e.g., hand setting of snaps scars and dents the 
snap). Complete warranty. Catalog free. 
Kelty Pack, P.O. Box 639, Sun Valley, CA 91352. 
Originally the standard against which others were 
measured, and still of consistent quality. Recent innova- 
tions have been limited as it has been sold twice, first to 
C.M.L. (parent company 
of Sierra Designs) then recently 
to Kellwood, the $500 million sales company supplying 
90% of its goods to Sears and discount retail stores. 
Catalog free. 
SLEEPING BAGS 
GOOSE DOWN FILL 
These bags offer maximum efficiency and comfort for 
the backpacker who desires the most warmth for the 
least weight and will be able to protect the bag from 
becoming wet. 
There are many differences in materials 
F 
used, design, construction, and performance capabilities. La 
There is also a lot of 
hype. Beware marketing “tailfins” ¥ f 
such as excessive fill-power claims or superfluous features, 
Ki i 
for they are often disfunctional and are always costly. 
a 
Following are descriptions of similar bags (mummy 
shape, 
y 
8” loft total) from five sources with distinctly different 
p 
approaches to design and production of this artifact. 
Down Home “‘Dipper.”” 
A custom-designed handcrafted 
If 
beauty for those with a need for the best and money to 
& 
burn. 
The young couple who produce these bags use 
more complex construction techniques and offer a wider 
& 
variety of options than any other manufacturer. A 
4 
floating hood (with 10 separate down compartments!) 
fully surrounds the head and is available either fixed to 
the bag or floating for those who sleep on their side. 
j 
An affixed “boxed” hood is also available. 
The shoulders 
of the bag fully surround the upper torso, a truly sculp- 
tural form which requires some extremely difficult sew- 
ing. A double zipper system (originated by Stephen- 
son’s Warmlite) totally eliminates the normal cold line 
by maintaining similar differential along the zipper as 
throughout the rest of the bag. Custom options include 
total loft, bottom Joft, hood style, bag girth, bag length, 
outer shell fabric, inner shell fabric, and removable liner. 
The Gore-Tex model with vapor barrier liner goes for 
about $395. 
Holubar “Timberline.” Twenty years of performance 
have proven the value of this no-frills fully-functional bag. 
1.9 oz, ripstop outer and inner shells, blocked channel 
construction, generous draft flap; the basic bag efficiently 
produced. The same model is available in a sew-it-yourself 
kit (as with many Holubar products) which seems to be 
superior to Frostline’s. 
The ready-made goes for approxi- 
mately $215; the kit for $50 less. More kits: Country 
Ways, p. 427. LE 
