Breaking and Training the Stock Horse 
Most books on, and 
methods of, training the 
western type riding 
= 
Orse are a collection of 
anecdotal tricks and 
——=—n clever gimmicks with 
oa “<"Peeee- - which you may force 
ao 
a 
or frighten the horse 
into doing what you 
have in mind. 
Mr. 
Williamson’‘s is not. 
It is a concise, orderly, and complete explanation of how, 
with minimum paraphernalia, to condition the horse to 
interpret the most subtle movements and pressures of the 
legs, hands, and entire body and to turn these commands 
into movement with the freedom and ease of an un- 
mounted horse. A horse well trained by this method can 
easily be ridden without a bridle. 
Williamson’s method 
develops discipline and sensitivity in the trainer as well 
as in the horse. 
Breaking and Training 
the Stock Horse 
Charles O. Williamson 
1950,1968; 123 pp. 
$1 2.50 postpaid from: 
Williamson School of 
Horsemanship 
P.O. Box 506 
Hamilton, MT 59840 
= 
° 
wey 
.Y 
ss 
HAS ho Y =: Wy ae 
a 
og as 
Stopping properly on hind feet; done chiefly with rider's 
legs and shifting of weight. 
Reins slack, nose down, 
horse relaxed. 
Although intended primarily for the stock horse, its basic 
training principles can be applied to the training of any 
type of riding horse, including hunter, jumper, gaited, 
and high school dressage. 
There are also chapters on 
horsemanship, riding, and riding a bucking horse. 
—Paul Bandy 
e 
Contrary to the usual idea //tt/e equipment is necessary in 
the proper training of saddle horses. 
e 
A horse responds to training to relieve pressure on some 
part of his body. He follows you when you are leading 
him to relieve pressure on his poll. He goes forward when 
the legs are used to relieve pressure on his sides. He stops 
or slows when the reins are pulled backward to relieve 
pressure on his mouth. When he does what you want, if 
you do not slack and relieve pressure, he has no incentive 
to do the same thing again for you and finally gives up 
in disgust and carries you about ina 
listless or even 
defiant manner because he must. 
The Schooling of the Western Horse 
This is an inspiring book on communication with horses. 
/t explains at length how a rider can become a teacher to 
every horse he mounts, and that only as a teacher can he 
begin to learn from horses. 
Carefully described is a 
method of training that should finally obsolete any idea 
of “breaking a horse.“ Also good argument on proper 
saddle design. 
—Rosemary Menninger 
[Suggested by Bob Roessel] 
The Schooling of 
the Western Horse 
John Richard Young 
1954; 322 pp. 
$12.50 postpaid from: 
Univ. of Oklahoma Press 
1005 Asp Avenue 
Norman, OK 73019 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Mental laziness and a love of routine are dominant charac- 
teristics of the horse. A creature of strong habit, he 
tends to dislike change and to look with suspicion on 
anything new. 
But get him accustomed to a regular 
schedule and he will follow it as unquestioningly as a 
milkman’s horse follows a regular route. A trainer can use 
this liking for routine to make many lessons easier for a 
green horse to catch onto, as well as easily to win the 
horse’s co-operation. 
If, for example, we are teaching a colt to stop when we 
feel the reins, he will get the idea more quickly if we give 
him the signal each time he reaches the same spot in the 
training ring. The same idea can be applied in teaching 
turns, offsets, changing from one gait to another, etc. 
Ride ’em! 
Bill Coleman wishes he'd left the hobbles Ai 
on the bronc. 
EES 
es 
After a few trials, as he approaches that certain spot the 
colt will anticipate the signal; all we need do is give it 
and he will respond almost automatically. 
Later, of course, after we know that he understands and 
can execute the order, we'll have to check his anticipa- 
tion, not permitting him to stop or turn or change gaits, 
or whatever the lesson is, when reaching that certain spot; 
but while the colt is learning we can make good use of 
routine in all our schooling. 
Almost all troubles that one is likely to encounter in 
schooling a horse stem from four principal errors com- 
monly committed by a majority of horsemen. These 
errors are: 
1. Lack of a definite plan, method, or system of proce- 
dure, with a clearly conceived objective in view, before 
the training is begun. 
2..,Inconsistency by the trainer in applying cues or aids 
to which he expects the horse to respond. 
3. Demanding too much of a horse at one time. 
4. “Rushing” a young horse’s progress, demanding not 
only too much but demanding it too soon. 
Horses 
When handling horses there is no substitute for experience, 
but this book is as close as you can get. /n the first 115 
pages the author presents encyclopedic information on all 
phases of horse management. 
The l/ast fifty pages are 
devoted to a brief discussion of eastern riding and showing. 
—Michael S. Kaye 
Simple, thorough; a classic. 
—Rosemary Menninger 
Horses 
(Their Selection, 
Care and Handling) 
Margaret Cabell Self 
1943, 1977; 170 pp. 
$3.50 postpaid from: 
Wilshire Book Company 
12015 Sherman Road 
North Hollywood, CA 
91605 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
I. SELECTION OF THE HORSE 
Familiar breeds of horses, how they came to be developed 
and for what purposes they may be used — Where to buy 
your horse — Tests for soundness. 
Il. SELECTION AND CARE OF EQUIPMENT 
Types of saddles and bridles — Grooming tools and other 
stable equipment needed — Harness — Types of vehicles 
— Care of tack. 
Ill. THE STABLE 
Location — Materials — Dimension of stalls — Flooring — 
Stable accessories — Ventilation and lighting — The tack 
room — The hay loft — Paddocks and pastures — 
Converting a garage. 
The Western Horse: Advice and Training 
This book supersedes Practical Western Training by the 
same author. As well as dealing effectively with all the 
subjects carried in PWT, this new book represents new 
insights and learnings by a fellow who has spent most of 
his life learning about horses. Best parts are his dedication 
to the hackamore, his discussion of the use of blindfolds, 
and the special section on ground handling, including how 
to rope, hobble, and throw a horse, trim hooves, use 
bowlines. Allin all, this is a nice uncluttered piece of 
advice on breaking and training a horse to the 
cow business. 
—J.D. Smith 
The Western Horse 
(Advice and Training) 
Dave Jones 
1974; 175 pp. 
$9.95 Postpaid from: 
Univ. of Oklahoma Press 
1005 Asp Avenue 
Norman, OK 73069 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
| don’t believe | would have thought of using the blindfold if 
| hadn’t seen it so widely used in South America. We soon 
were blindfolding mares for shots, hoof trimming, doctoring, 
and the like and almost completely discarded the twitch. 
One time we had a filly to doctor. She was a four-year-old 
with a hormone imbalance. 
| took a twitch with me, roped 
the filly, and screwed the twitch on her nose. Then the vet 
brought the shot. Popping the needle in her vein produced 
quick results. She reared and struck, hitting me in the 
shoulder before | could blink. 
Now, you don’t fight these Pasos. You try to get along with 
them, as you should with any horse. 
| knew that | might 
have to throw her and tie her down, but | tried the blindfold 
first. She stood, never moving at all, had her shot, and was 
released with no trouble. 
From all this | found the blindfold to be a very useful tool in 
horse handling. Nothing could be simpler to make. Cuta 
slit for the ears in a thirty-by-thirty-inch cheap cotton saddle 
blanket. A hole to tie a string in and another hole opposite 
can secure the blindfold under the jaw. 
If you want a blindfold on your hackamore, soft latigo makes 
a good one. 
It’s rigged right under the browband, on the 
headstall. The slits should be small so it will stay in place 
until you want to pull it down. 
IV. GENERAL CARE 
Principles of feeding and watering — Amounts and kinds 
of food necessary — Cost — Amount of time needed — 
Bedding — Grooming — Shoeing — Clipping — Vanning — 
Methods of tieing. 
V. FIRST AID 
Accidents and injuries — Treatment of lameness due to 
injury — Lameness due to wounds or infections — Lame- 
ness due to chronic condition or disease — Wounds — 
Treatment of common illnesses — For the medicine chest. 
VI. HANDLING THE HORSE 
General characteristics and temperament — Fundamental 
rules for handling and controlling in the stable — How to 
lead — How to back out of a stall — Working around a kick- 
er — Catching a horse in pasture — Bridling and saddling. 
Vil. CAUSE AND CONTROL OF VICES 
Stable vices: Cribbing — Tearing the blanket — Weaving 
— Crowding — Kicking in the stall — Backing out of the 
stall suddenly. 
Other vices: Kicking while under the saddle — Kicking 
while being mounted — Biting another horse — Charging 
in the pasture — Rearing under the saddle — Bolting — 
Shying — Refusing to leave his companions, or to leave 
the stable alone — Eating grass while under the saddle — 
Shying out at jumps — Getting overexcited at jumps. 
