A 
Sent 
= 
— 
How to Love Your Flute 
Japanese Shakuhachi Flute 
inspire 7a. archaic: to breathe or blow into or upon 
b. archaic: to infuse (as life) by breathing . 
. 
. 2b. to 
exert an animating, enlivening, or exalting influence upon. 
—Webster's 
Mark Shepard's soul-felt passion for the flute resonates 
through his book like music. 
It’s a comprehensive guide, 
with something for everyone from novice to professional, 
and so well written that it’s a pleasure just to browse 
through it. I’m not sure how he managed to present so 
much information so simply and clearly, but it’s clean as a 
whistle. This book inspires. 
—Diana Barich 
How to Love 
Your Flute 
; 
(A Guide to Flutes 
ry 
and Flute Playing) 
g 
Mark Shepard 
1980; 97 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid from: 
Panjandrum Books 
11321 lowa Avenue 
Suite 8 
Los Angeles, CA 90025 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
F 
<i 
Among North American companies, the reputable 
companies include Armstrong, Artley, and Gemeinhardt; 
in the handmade flute category, Haynes and Powell 
are well known names. 
In Europe the list includes 
Couesnon, Hammig, Marigaux, Monnig, Selmer, U.S.A., 
and Rudall, Carte. 
In Japan, Yamaha and Muramatsu 
are considered good. 
e 
There is not a great deal | can tell you about learning free 
improvisation, because it’s a fairly personal matter, but | 
will tell you two of my own favorite ways to do it. One 
is playing free improvisational duets with another flutist. 
The other is playing in a place with a lot of echo — an 
enclosed stairwell, a parking garage, a tunnel, a cathedral. 
Paul Horn, a. well-known flutist, will actually travel to the 
other side of the world to try out an echo! 
with them on their kits in his shops, assuring a correctly 
finished product. 
You stay in Chichester, with its charm- 
ing cathedral (one of my favorites) and the 10 day course 
(for spinets and clavichord), costs only $400 plus kit. 
That includes full room and board. 
The 17 day course, 
for the harpsichords, is only $605. So, for $3055 plus air 
fare you get 17 days living and working in southern 
England, plus a finished Flemish double. 
Tempting, eh? 
Sandy Rogers, Warren House, Stone Street, Faversham, 
Kent, ME13 8PS, England 
Sandy Rogers makes kits for three instruments — two 
kinds of Italian harpsichord and a clavichord. 
The large 
Italian is 
$1375, the clavichord is half that. Sorry, but 
no courses there. 
Steer Instruments, 23 Denmark Road, Carshalton, 
Surrey, England 
! ran into this firm at a fair of early instruments in 
London. 
They make just parts — keyboards, jacks, even 
a “Gothic Stool”’ — for those building without a kit. 
Gough & Davy Ltd., 13 - 15 Savile Street, Hull, North 
Humberside, England 
These people are representatives for a Dutch firm which 
makes a pipe organ kit. These are genuine chamber 
organs, with various numbers of ranks of pipes, and based 
on Baroque models. 
The usual one is modelled on an 
18th Century “Kabinet” organ, with three sets of pipes. 
As their brochure charmingly states, “Build it yourself for 
harpsichords is usual already for a long time, which for 
house organs is taking a high flight more and more.” 
~ 
Alan Gotto and John Perkins, Briar Hall, Bramerton, 
Norwich, England 
These two makers produce a line of five instruments, 
four of which can be purchased in semi-completed form. 
These are an Early English single, and Italian, a Flemish 
Virginal and an Italian Virginal. 
Their biggest is around 
$2075, in England. By semi-completed, they mean all 
carpentry done, you just assemble jacks, string, and play. 
The instruments are very good, very historical, and 
very beautiful. 
One final word: I’ve encountered man y people who never 
built anything before. For some reason they summoned 
the courage to buy an instrument kit, and such is the 
State of the art today, that they succeeded in finishing 
lovely instruments which proudly dominate their homes. 
The Outlay in money and time is considerable, but the 
rewards of owning the very embodiment of civilization 
and grace are more than worth it. ™ 
A wonderfully breathy flute, the shakuhachi expresses the 
player more directly and delicately than any instrument / 
know. Monty Levenson has American-made shakuhachis 
($20 - $80), Japanese-made ($195 - $1275), books, 
accessories, guidance, and the right attitude. Nice work. 
—SB 
Japanese 
Catalog 
Shakuhachi Flute 
$.15 from: 
Monty H. Levenson 
P.O. Box 294 
Willits, CA 95490 
e 
The Shakuhachi is an end-blown flute tuned to a penta- 
tonic (5 note) scale. By various fingerings, half- and 
quarter-holings, and by controlling the angle of the 
mouthpiece against the lip all of the twelve tones of the 
western chromatic scale can be produced. The mouth- 
piece consists of an oblique blowing edge cut diagonally 
toward the outside of the flute. 
It is unique in that it 
enables the player to control the pitch by changing the 
angle at which the flute is being blown. This, in turn, 
produces a delicate change of intonation — a swelling or 
bending of notes characteristic of the traditional music. 
The timbre of the instrument is almost always described 
as ‘‘mellow” in its low tones, although it is equally 
capable of producing shrill, penetrating, and breathy 
tones in its upper and middle registers. 
Little can be 
said of the tone of the shakuhachi without first hearing 
its beautiful ring. 
The Piano Owner’s Guide 
/f you ‘re going to buy a piano, new or used, get this 
book first. 
It tells you everything to look for and to 
look out for. 
It’s so easy to get burnt (as in buying a 
car) that I’d say this book is a necessity. 
If you already 
own a piano, the book will show you all its parts, tell 
you how it’s made, how it works, and what it needs 
to keep working well. 
Schmeckel, a piano tuner-technician and rebuilder for 
over forty-five years, writes clearly and has divided the 
book into numbered sections for easy cross-reference, 
This is the first and only book of its kind — finally. 
—Dave Potvin 
The Piano 
Owner’s Guide 
(How to Buy and 
Care for a Piano) 
Carl D. Schmeckel 
1971, 1974; 127 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
Charles Scribner’s Sons 
Vreeland Avenue 
Totowa, NJ 07512 
If you must purchase a small piano, it is strongly recom- 
mended that you settle for nothing smaller than console 
size with a direct-blow action. 
e 
Any make or style of piano, regardless of its use or 
location, should be tuned a minimum of twice a year. 
e 
The string tension in a typical piano at American Standard 
A-440 cycles-per-second (cps) pitch can easily approximate 
20 tons (40,000 Ibs.) of pull. This is enough to lift a double 
garage off its foundations! 
How to Buy a Violin 
It has a lot to do with who to trust, including your own 
objective ear. 
The violin is a barbarous instrument, and 
so is the shopping. Good to have a native guide like 
Reuter. 
—SB 
$3 Postpaid from: 
Fritz Reuter and Sons 
1565 Howard Street 
Chicago, |L 60626 
How to Buy a Violin 
(Reuter’s Consumer 
Report on Violins, Violas, 
Celli, Basses and Bows) 
Fritz Reuter, Jr. 
1971; 30 pp. 
e 
More than ninety per cent of all violin teachers, orchestra 
and band directors, and a large number of music adminis- 
trators in public and private schools, music schools and 
universities are employed on a commission basis by one or 
more musical instrument dealers. 
e 
A $500 violin if tonally compared with a $15,000 violin 
can be more beautiful in sound than the more expensive 
one. This principle has been demonstrated numerous 
times with modern violins when compared with most 
fine old master violins. 
The maximum amount of money one would have to pay if 
only interested in findinga 
violin fulfilling all individual 
requirements of tonal beauty is $1000 to $2000, depend- 
ing on the sales method of the seller. Only a very few 
violins of the finest old masters are tonally superior, but 
in no way as much as the difference in price may indicate. 
SCueeec 
ee 
eoseoveseenecevee 
ee 
eee 
ee 
ee 
eee 
COMMUNICATIONS 
INSTRUMENTS 
Elderly Instruments 
| had seen the Elderly catalog around for a few years, so 
liked its looks and had heard so many good things about 
the company, | just normally supposed we here (who are 
supposedly in the know) had already run a review of 
Elderly somewhere in the past ten years. 
Well, we hadn t. 
Till now. 
/f you are at all interested in a mail order source of 
quality musical instruments, accessories, parts, books, 
records, cases, and lore — at discount prices, then send for 
this catalog. 
Their motto is: “Music self-played is happi- 
ness self-made.” 
—J.D. Smith 
[Suggested by Marc Bristol] 
Elderly Instruments 
Catalog 
free from: 
Elderly Instruments 
541 East Grand River 
East Lansing, MI 48823 
e 
Concertinas 
The New English Concer- 
tina features Swedish steel 
reeds, 8 fold bellows with 
leather corners and edges 
covered with leather 
inside and out. Made 
in Italy, these concer- 
tinas are of good quality and durability. Although not as 
finely made as the old Wheatstones, they are nevertheless 
a good value for the price. 
Includes wooden case and 
instruction book. They are available in three models: 
treble (48 keys), tenor (43 keys), and baritone (42 
keys). Treble is usually preferred by those who wish to 
play with a fiddler, since the treble range is that of 
the violin. 
Bagpipes 
For those who may be interested in bagpipes — acquiring 
them or playing them, there is an excellent company in 
Scotland: Hugh MacPherson Ltd., 17 West Maitland 
Street, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH12 5EA 
Importing them yourself is about 4 times cheaper than 
buying one over here. Furthermore, the quality is better 
and the service is extremely courteous although slow. 
(It 
takes 3 months to get your bagpipe after ordering it.) 
It 
is worth it however. A full sized bagpipe, full mounted 
in imitation ivory, costs about $400 in American money 
(at the current rate of exchange). That's another thing 
they'll do for you. They'll translate their prices into 
recognizable money symbols for Americans. Since 
MacPherson’s things are made of selected African black- 
wood and constructed with an old fashioned pride-of- 
craftsmanship, there can be no comparison. They sell 
also practice chanters, instruction books, collections of 
the Ceol Mor, maintenance accessories and even super- 
fluous goodies like highland costumes for performers. 
They will send you a catalog (of sorts) if you write them. 
| highly recommend the practice chanter for starting. An 
excellent beginners instruction book is the College of 
Piping Tutor Book I, by Seumas Macneill and Thomas 
Pearston. Also order extra reeds with your chanter. The 
plastic types last a long time. 
Tiny Alice 
Los Angeles, California 
i 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
Beth went to a masquerade party as a Hadassah 
lady — with correct hairdo, dress, ear rings and 
comments — and a friend of hers liked it so much 
he invited her to a dinner party as the Hadassah 
lady and not herself. Beth wants to write a short 
story called “Becoming the Hadassah Lady,” 
about that happening more and more until the 
Hadassah lady gets all the invitations and has all 
the friends. 
