* 
A Cooperative 
/ Method of 
| Control 
4 Margaret Nofziger 
UTERUS 
CERVIX 
Control 
by Stephanie Mills 
HESE DAYS, WHAT’S NEW in birth control is 
you and me as active participants. Not so /ong 
ago, it looked like automatic birth control had 
arrived. Just re-wire the woman’s cycle with synthetic 
estrogen and/or progesterone, install an |UD, or have a 
vasectomy, and get ready for years of hassle-free, non- 
procreational sex. 
... Wrong. With birth control, as with anything else that 
matters, we offload responsibility at our own peril. As 
more is learned about the side effects of those no-think 
birth control methods and the true costs of the trade-offs 
are understood, more women and men are beginning to 
substitute motivation for high technology. Regardless 
of the method you choose, it’s the decisive factor. 
This may mean some sacrifice in convenience but a lot 
more closeness and creativity. For instance, Natural 
Family Planning, a method | once considered suitable 
only for infertile fundamentalists, is becoming increas- 
ingly popular, 
and rightly so. 
It’s a careful sympto- 
thermal method which does require some abstinence 
from penis-in-vagina intercourse. 
It works best with a 
lot of cooperation.and, its proponents say, helps you 
to really know one another. 
The more you know about yourselves, your fertility, and 
your contraceptive options, the freer you ‘ll be of modern 
medicine and its perils. Louise Lacey, who pioneered 
Lunaception, says, “Any woman can get to know her 
body so well that she‘ll know ahead of time when she’s 
fertile.’’ The effort involved is worth it, whether or not 
you opt for natural family planning. Knowing you ‘re 
ovulating, you might want to intensify your contracep- 
tion — say, add foam to condoms — or you might decide 
to make a baby. 
It’s your choice. 
Realistically, probably the most reliable way to know 
what your contraceptive options are and to grasp their 
advantages and disadvantages is to volunteer at a family 
planning clinic and pay attention to the gossip. 
The state 
of the art changes rapidly, and doctors aren’t always the 
first to know — or tell. What’s more, family planning 
practitioners have vastly more experience with a wider 
range of methods than your average private Ob/Gyn, 
and often their sexual politics are better. 
No single book or periodical can tell you everything you 
need to know. A serious student of the politics of health 
might want to subscribe to the National Women’s Health 
Network News ($25 for 6 issues a year and network 
membership from the National Women’s Health Network, 
2025 | Street NW, Suite 105, Washington, D.C., 20006). 
A professional publication which reflects establishment 
thinking is Family Planning Perspectives ($25 for 6 issues 
a year from the Alan Guttmacher Institute, 
515 Madison 
Avenue, New York, NY 10022). 
You might simply want 
access to them and other specialist publications; many 
family planning clinics and medical centers have libraries 
which carry them. 
In spite of all the richly deserved bad press, pills are still 
the most popular contraceptive method in the U.S., 
followed by !UDs. Nevertheless, most of the fam plan 
types | talked to feel that barrier methods (condoms, 
diaphragms, cervical caps, and foam) are the best options, 
and the ones they use. 
One compelling reason to use condoms, if you‘re the 
multiple partner type, is Pelvic Inflammatory Disease 
(PID). Slowly simmering PID is a common consequence 
of gonorrhea (which goes undetected by most women) or 
other infections, 
It causes 35 to 80 thousand involuntary 
sterilizations a year. Between 15 and 40 percent of 
women are sterilized by one bout, often unwittingly. An 
/UD can double or quadruple the risk. PID sterilizes by 
scarring the Fallopian tubes, which is why all the interest 
in test tube babies: in vitro fertilization offers a way to 
get egg and sperm together in spite of a blocked tube. 
Non-gonoccocal urethritis, which can cause prostatitis in 
men, cervicitis and salpingitis in women, and conjunctiv- 
itis in babies born to infected women, is even commoner 
than gonorrhea, and another great argument for condoms. 
The VD capitals of the U.S. are Atlanta, Baltimore, and 
San Francisco. Approach lovers from these towns with 
extreme caution and much latex. 
For a more monogamous woman who seeks an alternative 
to the diaphragm, there’s the cervical cap, a golden oldie 
which is currently enjoying renewed interest. 
Caps fit 
over the cervix, rather than barricading the whole back 
portion of the vagina. Consequently they are for some 
women much more comfortable than diaphragms. 
For 
others though they are impossible to insert. 
Like 
COMMUNITY 
BIRTH CONTROL 343 
diaphragms, they require thorough instruction and prac- 
tice. Held in place by suction from the uterus, caps 
require little or no spermicide (depending on 
who’s advising). 
Caps have been used in various forms for thousands of 
years. 
They have been made of opium, beeswax, lemon 
rinds, gold, silver, aluminum, and lately, of latex. Being 
made of latex obviates what was, in the golden age, their 
greatest advantage namely that you could leave them in 
all month. 
Latex caps, says Felicia Guest, “set up a right 
powerful stink after 24 to 48 hours.” Work is in progress 
on caps made out of /ess porous materials, but it’s likely 
to be a while before they’re generally available. 
The FDA 
in its (dubious) wisdom, has banned the use of caps 
as contraceptives. 
Nevertheless, there are a number of nurse-practitioners, 
doctors, and clinics fitting caps. 
The National Women’s 
Health Network will mail a list of these providers. 
Please 
send them a nice contribution for their trouble. 
Calculate 
your savings on jelly and give them a healthy cut. 
Another classical revival is mutual masturbation. 
Doctors 
Sadja Goldsmith and Alan Margolis, two respected inno- 
vators in family planning, have lately been urging their 
cohorts to teach Outercourse as a birth control method. 
(They and we are indebted to Lonnie Barbach for that 
coinage.) Goldsmith and Margolis say that Outercourse 
is “99% effective, free from side effects, simple to use and 
teach, and lowers the risk of sexually transmitted diseases.” 
What's more, they say, “It’s always at hand.” In addition 
to these virtues, Outercourse is one way to expand one’s 
concept of sexual expression beyond penis-in-vagina sex.* 
/ think it’s also worth liberating oneself from the notion 
that sex necessarily has to be genital. Sex can enhance 
intimacy or substitute for it. There was a time when it 
seemed that the groovy new birth control methods would 
enable us to have all the sex we wanted, with no thought 
before or after. 
That whole approach was fun, but 
expensive. No trust necessary. 
/t may still be fun, but it doesn’t seem nearly as interest- 
ing as trying to establish honest relationships which allow 
bodily self-determination. And sometimes that means 
saying — or hearing — no. 
* Creative couples have always found abundant alternatives to the penis- 
comes-in-vagina rut, which explains why the world is not overrun with 
Frenchmen and Greeks. 
Consider, 
For the clitoris and/or vagina there is 
tongue, lips, thumb, forefinger, middle finger, of the right hand, left hand, 
both hands, own hand, thigh, forehead, vibrator. 
. 
For the penis there is 
mouth, right hand, left hand, both hands, own hand, ass (slowly, with 
plenty of oil), pubis, hair, sundry cleavages, vibrator. 
. Awonder that 
anyone ever conceives. 
—SB 
ee 
A Cooperative Method of 
Natural Birth Control 
The method is a combination of three different rhythm 
systems, 
They are: the calendar method, which strives, 
however unreliably, to predict ovulation based on a 
menstrual history, the basal body temperature method, 
which tells when ovulation has occured by measuring a 
slight temperature increase; and the mucus method, 
which identifies the fertile period by observing changes 
in the cervical mucus. 
As Margaret Nofziger points out, this method requires 
cooperation between partners. Some instruction would 
also be helpful, and many family planning clinics are 
beginning to offer it. Some of them even recommend 
this book. No wonder. 
It’s accurate, responsible, and 
| friendly. Just the thing for people who want birth 
“| contro! without technology. 
—Stephanie Mills 
$5 postpaid from: 
The Book 
Publishing Company 
156 Drakes Lane 
Summertown, TN 38483 
Natural Birth 
1976; 127 pp. 
She ovulated on day 14. Her first higher temperature 
wasn't high enough to call ‘‘number 1."’ The next day it 
rose more and this temperature was high enough to be 
called ‘‘1’" (at least .3° higher than 6 temperatures before 
the rise.) On the 3rd morning of higher temperatures, 
she was infertile for the remainder of the cycle. 
thru 77a 
Basal Temperature and Mucus Chart 
12012 
7|29| 2430) / | 
213) 4)5 
la 
j Oe 
BOT d 2 
171 
819) Gira} ED) 
i 
Sad i 
ee 
ee 
Telok 
Women and the Crisis in Sex Hormones 
Synthetic estrogens were first administered to women at 
Auschwitz by Nazi experimenters in fertility control. 
That was just a part of genocide. Since then, they have 
been hailed as panaceas for contraception, threatened 
miscarriage, and menopause. And, as SB has observed, 
Panaceas are poison. 
Reading this book made me feel that my six years on the 
Planned Parenthood Federation Board were an unwitting 
collusion in gynocide. 
Using anecdotal and other evi- 
dence, the Seamans tell the story of the pill’s develop- 
ment (which PP’s founder, Margaret Sanger spurred and 
the organization abetted), and of its disastrous conse- 
quences for the health of many women. 
The pill’s pervasive side effects were anticipated, but the 
risks to individual users were deemed negligible in light 
of the general urgency of population control, which 
seemed to call for a technofix. 
It was also assumed that 
Contraceptive Technology 
’d recommend Contraceptive Technology in addition to 
My Body, My Health (p. 344) because in order to avoid 
mayhem and bitter feelings, patients have to become 
their own physicians. What better way to do that than 
to read a practitioner’s handbook? 
CT sets the standard for careful medical procedure — an 
activist patient should expect no /ess than what’s described 
here. CT’s biannual update makes it especially valuable. 
Medical practice in this field must change according to 
new information, and you can’t always depend on your 
doctor to keep up. 
—Stephanie Mills 
~ 
Contraceptive 
| 
Technology 
1978-1979 
Robert A. Hatcher, 
M.D., et al. 
1978; 192 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
Halsted Press 
John Wiley and Sons 
One Wiley Drive 
Somerset, NJ 08873 
ie 
euSiieie 
M6) 
6116) 
01%p> 
els, 
O06 
(6 
(6)0 
0.10 
6 © 6 ae 
© © 
6.016 
06.8. 
6 
16 
6) 
6) 
6 
los 
0) 
6 6% 
a full warning of the pill’s possible consequences might 
scare off prospective users. 
Yes, indeed. 
The Seamans also provide the shameful story of DES in 
full, and argue strongly against the use of estrogen 
replacement therapy by menopausal women. Not surpris- 
ingly, they recommend the use of barrier methods of 
contraception, including the cervical cap. However, 
according to one family planner the book overstates the 
testedness of the cervical cap. 
It isn’t quite the “complete | 
guide to birth control” that the cover claims: more like a 
3 
complete guide to the sexual politics of drug development. | ~ 
Rub it up against Contraceptive Technology for a spark or | 
~ 
two of controversy. 
—Stephanie Mills 
$3.50 postpaid from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, 1L 60016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Women and the Crisis 
in Sex Hormones 
Barbara Seaman and 
Gideon Seaman, M.D. 
1977; 621 pp. 
Se Swine) Clee wre te wie fe. thee 
6 
2 6) pees) e, 0) srela es » 
THE RISING 
SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
silty 
A church bell is kind of 
like an electric can opener 
or a dishwasher. When you don’t have one you 
think you don’t need one, but once you have it, 
you find yourself using it all the time. Take the 
jamboree, for instance. A church bell mounted on 
its own handy portable (by three strong people) 
stand could have been standing on a hill above the 
event and some power-hungry kid or grownup 
would’ve been ringing it all the time because it 
really is a kick to make a large noise like that and 
even a small church bell makes a really large noise. 
I happen to know because I used to have one 
outside my bedroom door and ringing it was how 
my family got my attention. It worked, and the 
noise is loud enough that the jamboree bell 
would’ve had to have been fairly far away from 
everything else or it would’ve driven those close 
to it nuts, but as a distant ding dong it would’ve 
been nice. 
continued on next spread 
