CRAFT 
The Complete Book 
of Knitting 
A great source of help and information. 
Guides the beginner in the selection of 
equipment and the right yarn to go along 
with it. The instructions and sketches 
carefully cover everything from casting 
on, several ways to increase, decrease, to 
the common problems beginning knitters 
face. 
The advanced knitter will enjoy 
the many 
varied methods discussed, the 
interpretations of foreign language 
patterns and the fine notes on how to 
measure and tailor-finish your articles. 
To put all you will learn to good use the 
author adds a great number of unusual 
pattern stitches with instructions. 
—Barbara Erfani 
The Complete Book 
of Knitting 
Barbara Abbey 
1971; 239 pp. 
$12.95 postpaid from: 
The Viking Press, 
625 Madison Avenue 
New York, NY 10022 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
For working out the 
shape of a large article, 
graph paper is almost 
indispensible. Each 
square on the paper 
represents one single 
stitch or row, and the 
outline of the work 
can be drawn on the paper, square by square. The knitter 
will then be able to see at a glance the form the piece of 
knitting under consideration will take. Colored pencils 
can be used to plot multicolor designs. Each stitch will 
stand out clearly and the graph will be easy to follow. 
Patterns for Guernseys, Jerseys & Arans 
An obscure book on knitting | use often, and which seems 
to be borrowed from me frequently. 
These sweaters take 
a long time to make, but one should be sufficient for 
most of a lifetime. Owning one gives you an incredible 
sense of security. 
—Gail Temple 
Full knitting instructions are given for some of the 
sweaters but only for the pattern blocks for some of the 
more complex types, such as the arans. 
—Diana Sloat 
Patterns for 
Guernseys, 
Jerseys & Arans 
Gladys Thompson 
1971; 162 pp. 
$3.50 postpaid from: 
Dover Publications, 
180 Varick Street 
New York, NY 10014 
A Treasury of 
Knitting Patterns 
Page after page of exquisite, unusual 
patterns. 
The patterns are grouped into 
several categories and are preceded by 
a general description of the patterns and 
how to knit them. 
Instructions deal 
with the usual knitting terms and abbre- 
viations, and include a short paragraph 
describing some of the pattern’s possible 
uses. 
The book also contains a short 
chapter on adapting the patterns to 
circular knitting. 
To fully enjoy and 
use this book basic knitting skills are 
definitely needed. 
—Barbara Erfani 
» 
fe 
EEL 
IS, 
A fisherman’s guernsey in cable 
and cross-over patterns 
One day | found myself in Queen Street in the old town, 
and | called at a whitewashed stone cottage with walls 
at least a foot thick. An old lady opened the door, and 
when she heard | wanted guernsey patterns she asked me 
into the kitchen. A tortoiseshell cat sat by the fire, and 
an old man lay asleep on his side on a horsehair sofa. 
She asked me to sit down and went to fetch some guern- 
seys from up the yard. She showed me one or two, and 
then pointing to the sofa said, ‘Tak a Leeak at yon gansey 
he’s wearing; yer can tun him over and see t’pattern!”’ 
Harry Freeman, only survivor of 
Whitby lifeboat disaster 1881 
A Treasury of 
Knitting Patterns 
Barbara G. Walker 
1968 
; 301 pp. 
$10 postpaid from: 
Charles Scribner’s & Sons 
Vreeland Avenue 
Totowa, NJ 07512 
Lattice Cable 
KNITTING 
271 
The Last Word on North American Magazines of Interest to Thread Benders 
by Robbie Fanning 
Small press publishing 
flourishes in the craft 
field, especially in needle- 
work (including knit and 
crochet). 
This list 
focuses on small press, a 
qualification difficult to 
define. 
It has more to 
do with the vision and 
bankroll of the origina- 
tor(s) than with circula- 
tion size. Needlecraft 
for Today, then, with 
500,000 subscribers is in 
because of the close 
involvement of the editor 
and publishers, while 
Quilt! is out because it 
is backed by a large 
disinterested corpora- 
tion. means | have 
not examined a copy. 
STITCHERY 
Embroiderers’ Association of Canada Magazine. 
Helen 
Russell, Editor, 441 Avalon Road, Winnipeg, MN, Canada, 
R2M 2L4, $10/year (includes membership), quarterly. 
Just coming into its ownas a full-fledged magazine, report- 
ing the doings of the Canadian Embroiderers’ Association. 
Embroidery. Embroiderers’ Guild of London, Nora Jones, 
Lynette de Denne, Editors, c/o de Denne Ltd., Kenton, 
Harrow, Middlesex HA 3 OEU, England, $14 /year, 
quarterly. 
/n England, embroidery is a four-year art 
school discipline and the high quality work is regularly 
featured in this inspiring magazine — highly recommended. 
The Flying Needle, National Standards Council of Ameri- 
can Embroiderers (NSC), Mary Ann Butterfield, Editor, 
6290 E. Pinchot, Scottsdale, AZ 85251, $15 /year 
(includes membership), quarterly. Reports on groups, 
correspondence school, conventions; features more 
contemporary work than NeedleArts. Both NSC and 
EGA suffer the highs and lows in quality common to 
all-volunteer publications. 
Hands On! 
Box 198 Osgood Road, Milford, NH 03055, 
$50/year, monthly. A monthly packet of unusual fabric 
and thread, with instructions for a small learning project. 
They also publish The World In Stitches, the best mai/ 
order embroidery catalog in the U.S., for $1. 
# International Old Lacers Newsletter. Mrs. Caroline 
E. Pierce, Editor, 5206 Olley Lane, Burke, VA 22015, 
$6 /year. 
Needle Arts. Embroiderers’ Guild of America (EGA), 
Judith Leibman, Editor, 6 E. 45th Street, Room 1501, 
New York, NY 10017, $17 /year (includes membership), 
quarterly. Reports on regional activities, conventions, 
Master Craftsman and correspondence courses. About 
four times bigger than NSC. Reflects the more traditional 
approach to needlework, with heavy emphasis on tech- 
nique and less on experimentation and original design. 
Treadleart. Janet Stocker, Editor/publisher, 2458 W. 
Lomita Blvd,, Lomita, CA 90717, $6/year, $1 single, 
bimonthly. Subtitled “For sewing machine art enthusi- 
asts,”’ the approach is folksy, with patterns for machine 
embroidery, recipes for the microwave (to save time 
for more sewing), news on classes. Improving with 
each issue. 
QUILTING 
Canada Quilts. Mary Conroy, Editor/publisher, 360 
Stewart Drive, Sudbury, Ontario, Canada P3E 2R8, 
$6 /5 times a vear ($6.50 in U.S.A.). A friendly and 
ambitious one-woman attempt to be the Quilters’ News- 
letter Magazine for Canada — includes patterns, games, 
guild news, how-to’s, book reviews. 
* Clearinghouse Newsletter. North American Quilt 
Quilters’ Journal. Joyce Gross, Editor/publisher, P.O. 
Box 270, Mill Valley, CA 94941, $7.50 /year, quarterly. 
Scholarly studies of historic quilts and quilters. 
Quilting and Related Needle Arts. Ruth Briggs, Editor/ 
publisher, P.O. Box 403, Rancho Santa Fe, CA 92067, 
$5/year, quarterly. Patterns for traditional quilting, 
applique, and piecing; first issue (Feb ‘79) reprinted 1934 
Sears Quilt Book. 
* Tumbling Alley. Evelyn Brown, Editor/publisher, 
425 NE 6th Street, Gainesville, FL 32601. 
COUNTED THREAD (needlepoint, 
cross stitch, etc.) 
Counted Thread. Counted Thread Society of America, 
Elizabeth Stears, Editor/publisher, 3305 S. Newport 
Street, Denver, CO 80224, $5/year, quarterly. A sensible 
and interesting publication delving into the international 
history and techniques of counted thread (cross stitch, 
darning, Hardanger, canvas work, etc.). 
National Needlepoint News. Sherry Baker, Editor/pub- 
lisher, 171 Guadalupe Drive, Sonoma, CA 95476, $4.50/ 
year, three times a year. A trade newspaper for sma// 
yarn shop owners; reports on kit companies, business 
trends, convention news. 
Needlepoint Bulletin. Sharlene Weldon Krenkel, Editor/ 
publisher, 50 South U.S. 1, Suite 200, Jupiter, FL 33458, 
$12 /year, bimonthly. Patterns, designs, and news for 
needlepointers — almost all material generated by editor/ 
publisher, who oddly remains invisible, not even putting 
her name on masthead. 
Needlepoint News. Caro! LaBranche, Editor/publisher, 
Box 668, Evanston, IL 60204, $9 /year, bimonthly. 
The editor’s highly personal writing style with strong 
opinions on everything makes this how-to a favorite of 
needlepointers — patterns, techniques, book reviews, 
show coverage. 
*Smocking Arts Guild Newsletter. Vicky Alexander, 
Editor, 824 Eden Court, Alexandria, VA 22308. 
Stitches Count. Suzanne Weyer, Editor/publisher, 8991 
Jane Road North, Lake Elmo, MN 55042, $3 /year, 
quarterly. Many patterns for small cross stitch and other 
counted thread projects. 
CROSS-FIELD 
Center for the History of American Needle- 
work Newsletter (CHAN). Rachel Maines, 
Editor, Old Economy Village, 14th and 
Church Street, Ambridge, Pa 15003, $10/ 
year (includes membership). Feminist his- 
torian Maines has kept CHAN in touch with 
all levels of needlework — from factory 
Interweave. 
Linda Ligon, Editor/publisher, 306 N. 
Washington, Loveland, CO 80537, $10 /year, quarterly. 
Originally published to cover weaving and fiber arts in 
the Rocky Mountain states but expanded to national in 
response to enthusiastic readers. 
Bears the stamp of 
honesty, integrity, and sound journalistic background 
of editor/publisher. 
(See p. 273.) 
Needlecraft for Today. Fredrica Daugherty, Editor, 
P.O. Box 10142, Des Moines, |A 50340, $7.95 /year, 
bimonthly. /nstructions for quilted, stitched, knitted, 
and crocheted items for the home — what distinguishes 
this from the usual ladies’ magazines is no ads and the 
sincerity of the editorial staff, which leads to sharing infor- 
mation freely with a loyal readership of over 500,000. 
The Needlework Times. Elaine Coorens and T. Devon 
Wray, Editors/publishers, P.O. Box 87263, Chicago, IL 
60680, $9 /year, bimonthly. News on products and 
stitchers with a new Home Study Course feature. 
Silhouette. Valentine Museum, 1015 E. Clay Street, 
Richmond, VA 23219. /nteresting historica/ articles on 
American techniques and on museum pieces. 
Textile Museum Newsletter. 2320 S St., NW, Washington, 
D.C. 20008, quarterly. Reports on conferences, classes, 
shows, and academic conferences at the museum. 
* Weaving and Fiber News. P.O. Box 259, Homer, 
NY 13077. 
* Interloop, the Knitters’ and Crocheters’ Art. 1636 
N. Twin Oaks Road, San Marcos, CA 92069, $12/ 
year, quarterly. 
* The Needle’s Eye. 1801 Whitney, Idaho Falls, 
ID 83401. 
The Platypus Newsletter. Colette Wolff, Editor/publisher, 
Box 396, Planetarium Station, New York, NY 10024. 
Not available by subscription but free with orders and 
well worth buying one pattern merely to receive the news- 
letter — well-written comments on stuffing toys, the right 
and wrong way of embroidering features, teaching, etc. 
Textile Artists’ Newsletter. Susan C. Druding, Editor/ 
publisher, 5533 College Avenue, Oakland, CA 94618, 
$6 /year, quarterly. Druding, owner of Straw Into Gold, 
a mail order fiber and dye supply store, publishes valuable 
technical articles on yarn and dyeing. 
Wool Gathering. Elizabeth Zimmerman, Editor/publisher, 
Box 57, Babcock, WI 54413, $5 /3 years or free with 
$10 purchase. 
The piquant wit of the editor comes 
through on every page, even in the directions for knit 
Sweaters, vests, hats, and socks, which are often 
designed for circular needles — a must-read. 
@ 
@ 
6 
6 ‘ele S)'e) 0 
Ss 
Olas: 6) eek eel eefabe! ale Stel ele. Sab 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
Guild, P.O. Box 1195, Shepherdstown, WV 25443, $15/ 
year (includes membership), quarterly. 
@ The Patchword. Hearthside Crafts Quilter’s Club, P.O. 
Box 305, Westview Station, Binghamton, NY 13905, 
$8 /year (includes membership). 
Patchwork Patter. National Quilting Association, P.O. 
Box 62, Greenbelt, MD 20770, $5 /year (includes 
membership), quarterly. Down-home news of quilters 
with pictures of their quilts. 
workers through doily makers to the fine 
artists — an organization worth supporting. 
Craftsman and Craft News. Elizabeth Ding- 
man, Editor, Ontario Crafts Council, 346 
Dundas Street West, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada M5T 1G5, $15/year (includes 
membership). Wel/-written features on 
Ontario craftspeople, from an area of out- 
standing international talent. 
Thunderbird. Twelve 
full size quilt patterns of 
authentic American 
Indian designs by sand- 
Painter David Villasenor. 
$3 plus $1 handling. 
—Quilting and 
Related Needlecraft 
Isn’t it funny that not only marching band 
members but also creative types such as ballerinas 
‘ 
and first violins and piano virtuosos spend every 
minute of their creative life counting. You listen 
or look at soaring and they’re both soaring and 
SZ 
4A” 
1S 
eee 
eee 
eee 
eee 
we 
ee 
ee 
eee 
ee 
