4 
Iw 
04 
The King and the Corpse 
1 know of no better myth-telling than this, and no better 
myths. 
You‘ve got Abu Kasem’‘s Slippers, and then 
Conn-eda and John Golden-Mouth, and four romances 
from King Arthur that take deeper turns than T.H. 
White, and the prize: the ancient Hindu Romance of 
the Goddess, plumbing the involuntary creation. 
Col- 
lected by Heinrich Zimmer, edited by Joseph Campbell. 
There are few books with such a blend of extravagance 
and intelligence, and none that come so close to the 
heart of education. 
The King and 
the Corpse 
(Tales of the Soul's 
Conquest of Evil) 
Heinrich Zimmer and 
Joseph Campbell 
1948 ; 338 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Princeton University Press 
Princeton, NJ 08540 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
That night, in the bed, Sir Gawain could not at first bring 
himself to turn and face her unappetizing snout. After a 
little time, however, she said to him: ‘‘Ah, Sir Gawain, 
since | have wed you, show me your courtesy in bed. 
It 
may not be rightfully denied. 
If | were fair, you would 
not behave this way; you are taking no heed of wed- 
lock. For Arthur’s sake do kiss me at least; | pray you, 
do this at my request. Come, let us see how quick you 
can be!” 
The knight and loyal nephew of the king collected every 
bit of his courage and kindness. 
“I will do more,”’ he said 
in all gentleness, ‘1 will do more than simply kiss, before 
God!" And he turned around to her. And he saw her to be 
the fairest creature that ever he had seen without measure. 
She said: ‘What is your will?” 
“ Ah, Jesu!’ he said, “what are ye?” 
“Sir, | am your wife, securely; why are ye so unkind?” 
“Ah, lady, | am to blame; | did not know. You are 
beautiful in my sight — whereas today you were the 
foulest wight my eye had ever seen! To have you thus, 
my lady, pleases me well.’” And he braced her in his 
arms and began kissing her, and they made great joy. 
“Sir,” she said, “my beauty will not hold. You may have 
me thus, but only for half the day. And so it is a ques- 
tion, and you must choose whether you would have me 
fair at night and foul by day before all men’s eyes, or 
beautiful by day and foul at night.” 
“Alas,” replied Gawain, “the choice is hard. To have you 
fair at night and no more, that would grieve my heart; 
but if | should decide to have you fair by day, then at 
night | should have a scabrous bed. Fain would | choose 
the best, yet know not what in this world | shall say. 
My dear lady, let it be as you would desire it; | rest the 
choice in your hand. My body and goods, my heart and 
all, is yours to buy and sell; that | avow before God.” 
“Ah, gramercy, courteous knight!” said the lady. ‘‘Mayst 
thou be blessed above all knights in the world, for now | 
am released from the enchantment and thou shalt have 
me fair and bright both night and day.” 
——— 
The Way of the Shaman 
An anthropologist who hangs out with shamans, Michael 
Harner tells some hairy adventure stories and proceeds to 
pass on some safe (if not sane) basics on how to enter 
the Shamanic State of Consciousness and make whole- 
some use of it. 
—SB 
The Way of 
the Shaman 
(A Guide to Power 
and Healing) 
Michael Harner 
1980; 192 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Harper and Row 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Be careful, when you send power from your power animal 
to help another person, to send the power only to his 
animal. 
Do not send it directly to the person himself, 
because this might cause damage. 
Let the power safely 
filter through his own guardian, which is the only power 
animal that can be of direct help. A/so, avoid sending 
your own energy to help another person. You will 
exhaust yourself and, importantly for the person you 
wish to help, you will find it hard to continue working. 
Instead, draw always on your guardian’s power. 
If you 
do this, you will finish a healing session more energetic 
than ever, not tired. 
The Hero With A Thousand Faces 
My ths and man‘s dreamworld have, for the past fifty 
years or so, been the objects of various alchemical 
attempts at synthesis. About the time | get convinced 
that screaming green weenies have some larger context 
than Madison Avenue, someone else denies the organic 
connection between them. 
The hero with a thousand 
faces is one of those syntheses. 
It’s about the mono- 
myth, Campbell traces his hero right out into the void. 
—J.D. Smith 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
Princeton University Press 
Princeton, NJ 08540 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The Hero With A 
Thousand Faces 
Joseph Campbell 
1979; 416 pp. 
The passage of the mythological hero may be overground, 
incidentally; fundamentally it is inward — into depths 
where obscure resistances are overcome, and long lost, 
forgotten powers are revivified, to be made available 
for the transfiguration of the world. This deed accom- 
plished, life no longer suffers hopelessly under the terrible 
mutilations of ubiquitous disaster, battered by time, 
hideous throughout space; but with its horror visible 
still, its cries of anguish still tumultuous, it becomes 
penetrated by an all-suffusing, all-sustaining love, and a 
knowledge of its own unconquered power. Something of 
the light that blazes invisible within the abysses of its 
The Teachings of Don Juan 
A Separate Reality 
Astounding books exploring the methods of a Mexican 
Indian sorcerer, “Don Juan.”” Harsh, humorous, told with 
shocking adroitness, the truths here have been confirmed 
by others who have worked with native shamans or 
explored the nether reaches of sundry mystical paths. 
Unfortunately Castaneda’s later books (there are now 5 
total), though they are interesting, fictionalize ever farther 
away from his extraordinary field experience in the 
mountains of Mexico. 
The ideas in these two books 
have entered the American language to stay. 
—SB 
The Teachings 
of Don Juan 
(A Yaqui Way of 
Knowledge) 
Carlos Castaneda 
1968; 276 pp. 
$3.25 postpaid 
A Separate Reality 
(Further Conversations 
with Don Juan) 
Carlos Castaneda 
1971; 263 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
both from: 
Pocket Books 
Attn: Order Department 
1230 Avenue of 
the Americas 
New York, NY 10020 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Once a man has vanquished fear, he is free from it for the 
rest of his life because instead of fear, he has acquired 
clarity of mind which erases fear. By then a man knows 
Parabola 
Underground rivers of juice flow in this new magazine of 
myth. 
The major players in the subject play here, with a 
graphic excitement never seen in academic publications. 
—SB 
Parabola 
(Myth and the 
Quest for Meaning) 
D.M. Dooling, Editor 
$14 /year (4 issues) 
from: 
Society for the Study of 
Myth and Tradition 
G.P.O. Box 165 
Brooklyn, NY 11202 
a) 
Stone face 
Prayer stone 
Infused, active, seeing, 
“Dark to the mind, 
Radiant to the heart.”” 
e 
There are many people on the planet, now, who are not 
“inhabitants.” 
Far from their home villages; removed 
from ancestral territories; moved into town from the 
farm; went to pan gold in California — work on the 
Pipeline — work for Bechtel in Iran. Actual inhabitants 
— peasants, paisanos, paysan, peoples of the land, have 
been sniffed at, laughed at, and overtaxed for centuries 
by the urban-based ruling elites. The intellectuals haven't 
the least notion of what kind of sophisticated, attentive, 
The Mother of 
the Gods (Mexico) 
normally opaque materiality breaks forth, with an increas- 
ing uproar. The dreadful mutilations are then seen as 
shadows, only, of an immanent, imperishable eternity; 
time yields to glory; and the world sings with the pro- 
digious, angelic, but perhaps finally monotonous, siren 
music of the spheres. 
Like happy families, the myths 
and the worlds redeemed are all alike. 
his desires; he knows how to satisfy those desires. He can 
anticipate the new steps of learning, and a sharp clarity 
surrounds everything. The man feels that nothing 
is concealed. 
And thus he has encountered his second enemy: 
Clarity! 
That clarity of mind, which is so hard to obtain, dispels 
fear, but also blinds. 
—The Teachings of Don Juan 
e 
“| say it is useless to waste your life on one path, especi- 
ally if that path has no heart.” 
““But how do you know when a path has no heart, 
Don Juan?” 
“Before you embark on it you ask the question Does 
this path have a heart? 
If the answer is no, you will 
know it, and then you must choose another path.” 
“But how will | know for sure whether a Path has a heart 
or not?”’ 
“Anybody would know that. The trouble is nobody asks 
the question and when a man finally realizes that he has 
taken a path without a heart the path is ready to kill 
him. At that point very few men can stop to deliberate, 
and leave the path.” 
“How should | proceed to ask the question properly, 
Don Juan?” 
“ Just ask it.” 
"| mean, is there a proper method, so | would not lie to 
myself and believe the answer is yes when it really is no?” 
“Why would you lie?”’ 
“Perhaps because at the moment the path is pleasant 
and enjoyable.” 
“That is nonsense. A path without a heart is never enjoy- 
able. You have to work hard even to take it. On the 
other hand, a path with a heart is easy; it does not make 
you work at liking it. 
—The Teachings of Don Juan 
creative intelligence it takes to ‘‘grow food.” Virtually 
all the plants in the gardens and the trees in the orchards, 
the sheep, cows, and goats in the pastures were domesti- 
