384 
waa =e S = 
=o) ee. 
Groups 
Concerned 
About 
Biohazards 
by Peter Warshall 
Environmental Action, Suite 371, 1346 Connecticut 
Ave. N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036. 
There are 430,000 
generators of hazardous wastes in the U.S. Ninety per- 
cent of the waste discharged does not meet EPA standards. 
EA has an inventory of these polluters. 
Write them and 
ask for your state list. EA also publishes a biweekly 
of political updates, especially in their major field of 
interest, conservation political lobbying. 
Federation of Homemakers, Inc., P.O. Box 5571, Arling- 
ton, VA 22205. Lobbies against biohazardous food 
additives. 
Great people. About to tackle Coca Cola and 
Pepsi. Newsletter, $10/year (4 issues). 
Environmental Defense Fund, 1525 - 18th St. N.W., 
Washington, D.C. 20036. Leading group in bringing 
lawsuits to stop use of biohazardous pesticides and other 
consumer products. Major work on water supplies 
contaminated with substances harmful to human health. 
In short, litigation, research, and newsletter ($20/year 
for six issues and membership). 
Society for Occupational and Environmental Health, 
1341 G St. N.W., Suite 308, Washington, DC 20005. 
Professional society of doctors and scientists that holds 
conferences and supplies information on improving the 
quality of working and living places. 
Western Institute for Environmental/Occupational 
Sciences, Inc., 2520 Milvia St., Berkeley, CA 94704. 
An activist group of concerned medical people. Screened 
thousands for asbestos-related health problems using 
mobile medical units. Now working on the effects of 
microwaves on workers. 
Commonweal, Box 316, Bolinas, CA 94924. A non- 
profit group concerned with all kinds of human stress. 
Hopes to have clinic for chronic diseases and seeks 
methods of treating them. Produces excellent quarterly 
newspaper Common Knowledge, the on/y publication 
dealing completely with biohazards and you — $10/year. 
Citizens Against Toxic Sprays, Inc. (CATS), 1385 Bailey 
Ave., Eugene, OR 97402. 
The best effective grassroots 
group against chemical spraying of forests and people. 
CHEMICAL DRIFT” 
+ 
OG 
mychorrizae 
CHEMICAL PATHWAYS 
IN THE ENVIRONMENT 
groundwater 
—NCAP News 
ENVIRONMENTAL * 
less 
\STgi 
& 
Wi 
iy 
L 
ELE 
aa 
—From Common Knowledge by Commonweal 
Northwest Coalition for Alternatives to Pesticides, Box 
375, Eugene, OR 97440. A Pacific Northwest group 
fights the use of chemical spraying of forests and people. 
Expanding its interest to other biohazards. 
Grassroots 
networking so everyone knows what everyone else is 
doing. Meetings and newsletter ($7/year for 4 issues). 
Coalition on Environmental and Occupational Health 
Hazards, 106 K Street, Suite 200, Sacramento, CA 95814. 
Fledgling group to educate and influence the public on 
policy issues relating to biohazards. 
CSS te 
yer 
. 
POLITICS 
= 
ere 
Environmental Impact Assessment 
Today, both State and Federal Environmental Impact 
Statements are the heaviest political, educational and, in 
many ways, religious tools of the American citizen. 
Politically, the Environmental Impact Statement forces 
humans to consider the consequences of their acts. 
You can’t shoot buffalo or sell redwoods to Japan 
without stating the social and economic impact of human 
life on the natural world. 
The EIS has stopped the Kai- 
parowits Power Complex by simply making the industrial 
consortium aware of all the side effects of coal mining in 
southern Utah. 
The EIS slowed Warm Springs Dam in 
California by taking the Army Corps of Engineers to 
court. And even when projects were not stopped, the 
EIS put rational ecological guidelines on what could 
have been a “waste the Earth” devastation (e.g., the 
Alaska pipeline). 
Educationally, the EIS has melded science and the citizen. 
Scientists are tested for honesty and thoroughness by 
non-academic naturalists and planners. 
Citizens have 
plunged into the subtle realities of scientific thought 
(“carrying capacity,” “indirect and direct impacts on 
food chains,“ etc.). 
The result: by far the most refresh- 
ing rhetoric and dialogue in contemporary America. A 
dialogue where words have meaning, are connected to 
land and sea, and, when effective, give that special good 
feeling that comes in aiding a forest or river or mammal 
or bird. 
In this book “The Practical Appendix” and Johnston’s 
essay “Assessing Social and Economie Impacts” 
are the 
most useful tools to present-day EIS writing | know. 
—Peter Warshall 
$12.95 postpaid from: 
Freeman, Cooper & Co. 
1736 Stockton Street 
San Francisco, CA 94133 
Environmental 
Impact Assessment 
Patrick H. Heffernan, 
Ruthann Corwin, Editors 
1975; 267 pp. 
Chain of impacts associated with dam construction. 
Neighborhood preservation is 
an ecology issue 
What bulldozers do to an existing human commu- 
nity is no different from what they do to any 
other climax biological community — wetland, 
woodlot, or streambed. A complex mature meta- 
life is crippled or killed and replaced by a sim- 
plistic early successional non-community, and then 
at great expense kept that way. 
The process is always called improvement. 
To measure whether it is improvement, count the 
variety of life before and after. Count the number 
of species. Count the number of kinds of people, 
kinds of 
jobs, services, interactions, ages, incomes. 
Decrease in variety is ecological damage. 
It’s 
called improvement because it isn’t. 
Neighborhood preservation is an ecology issue. 
Count the variety. If it’s going to be diminished, 
start phoning. 
—SB 
The Health Effects of 
Environmental Pollutants 
Written for the practicing clinician, this volume is filled 
with useful data that can help doctors do the difficu/t 
detective work involved in tracking down the.often 
delayed and disguised health effects of environmental 
pollutants, particularly airborne pollutants, in the 
population at large. 
Waldbott covers a wide spectrum of pollutants — pul- 
monary irritants (ozone and chlorine), fibrosis producing 
agents (silica, iron, cobalt, barium), asphyxiating pollut- 
ants (carbon monoxide and hydrogen sulphide), systemic 
poisons (lead, mercury, fluoride, and cadmium), allergic 
agents, radioactive contaminants, carcinogens, and muta- 
gens, as well as smoke. 
The Health Effects of Environmental Pollutants /s vast/y 
informative. 
It stands out as eminently readable in a field 
known for its jargon-ridden and impenetrable prose. 
—Steve Lerner 
[Editor, Common Knowledge/ 
$1 6.95 postpaid from: 
The C.V. Mosby Company 
Times Mirror Company 
11830 Westline 
Industrial Drive 
St. Louis, MO 63141 
The Health Effects 
of Environmental 
Pollutants 
George W. Waldbott 
1973, 1978; 360 pp. 
Land, Private Property Public Control 
A Canadian textbook. 
Its examples of how land owner- 
ship forms evolved, did or didn’t work, whether for 
primitive tribes, Rome, or contemporary U.S.A., along 
with philosophical discourses, make it the best | have 
found to provoke a better understanding of the rela- 
tionships between people and the land. 
It is small 
of print and is tedious at times, but worth reading, 
especially for those who are into the destiny of 
the community/world landscape. 
The working ideas and vocabulary in it unravel a lot of 
mysteries so that a reader can cope with concepts like 
leases, land banks, less-than-fee ownership, various 
taxation approaches, etc., in the reader’s private or 
community land problems. 
—Huey Johnson 
$12.50 postpaid from: 
Harvest House Ltd. 
4795 St. Catherine St. W. 
Land, Private Property 
Public Control 
peal ll 
Montreal, Quebec 
‘ 
; 
Canada H3Z 1S8 
e 
Every society must establish its own equilibrium between 
private rights and social responsibilities. Perhaps equilib- 
rium is not quite the correct term. There is a broad zone 
of interaction between private and public interests. Even 
within the general framework of Western democracy, the 
line of demarcation within this broad zone varies enor- 
mously as between Sweden and Texas. 
In the Nether- 
lands, for example, it is normal and acceptable for the 
public authorities to intervene in the use and disposition 
of land, to an extent that would be considered unthinkable 
in the United States -- yet both are democratic countries 
in the generally accepted sense of that term.... 
In the 
United States habits of thought dating from the days of 
the expanding frontier, and the concomitant notion that 
space is limitless are still extant. To a degree, the 
persistence of this outmoded mental climate is very 
largely responsible for the difficulties experienced by the 
U.S.A. in adapting its forms of government to modern 
requirements, and in developing effective means of 
controlling development, other than the basically crude 
and clumsy device of the zoning by-law. 
nn a 
