LEARNING 
TEACHING 
The Technology of Teaching 
This book focuses on classroom teaching, one of the 
more abysmal failures in modern civilization, but its 
Principles — the behavioral principles of operant con- 
ditioning — apply to the teaching of anything, from tying 
shoelaces to contrailing tempers to playing music or 
solving differential calculus problems. Many people have 
been conditioned to respond negatively to the very name 
of B.F. Skinner. 
If such persons consider themselves to 
be responsible, effective parents, teachers or ci tizens, 
they would do well to suspend an ill-formed judgment 
and read this book. Whether we like it or not, behavioral 
techniques work, on humans as effectively as on any 
Other organisms. 
They not only work, they are and will 
be used upon us and our children by media, industry, 
government, religion, and cult. 
That such techniques can 
be used destructively no more condemns the techniques 
than a hammer used as a weapon by the wrong hands 
condemns the hammer. 
If we don’t learn to contro/ 
ourselves, someone else will do it for us, and not neces- 
sarily for our benefit. 
Behaviorism is a vital tool for 
teaching that control; the goal of a technology of teach- 
ing is a well-informed student who has learned to contro/ 
himself, to take careful and thoughtful responsibility for 
the effects of his behavior on his world. 
A personal observation of a phenomenon Dr. Skinner 
does not quite touch upon: 
children taught from an 
early age by behavioral techniques tend to have an 
unusual, exuberant approach to the unknown. A new 
word, an unread book, an unsolved problem, a strange 
engine, mysterious chemical reaction, or untried song are 
Occasions for intense excitement and delight. Around 
every corner something new and wonderful awaits them. 
For such children the world will always be “so full of a 
number of things” — and the knowledge they have 
learned so happily to pursue will give them, like kings, 
considerable mastery over their own fate. —Carol Van Strum 
Autogen 
i= 
©2620e 
120a 
$1700 
Feedback, Bio and Otherwise 
by George von Hilsheimer 
In 1966 I read an article by Basmajian on letting kids hear 
amplified noise from the muscle activity over their 
larynxes as a way to suppress their subvocalizing whilst 
reading. We cobbled together a device to do the same 
thing, and Lo!, it did work. Almost as much fun as after 
reading Shagass (how could you forget that reference?) on 
conditioning brainwaves a decade earlier. 
I thought I had a nice corner on this stuff when all of a 
sudden even humanistic psychologists were doing “bio- 
feedback,” and now a brainwave analyzer is almost a 
holy icon of something called “holistic medicine.” 
It 
does puzzle me why biofeedback, a high technology 
method, is so popular among low technology addicts. 
_Same thing with “right brainedness,” which seems to be 
very popular among people who can’t balance their check- 
books, but had to be figured out by people who passed 
their calculus. Oh well. 
Super-Learning 
A gee-whiz tour through some of the most innovative 
methods for accelerated learning becoming available, 
including suggestology. 
The data supports the author's 
contention that it is possible for normal people to /earn 
mental and physical skills five to ten times faster, with 
better retention and with less effort using the tech- 
niques described. 
Lots of exercises, lots of cheery confidence. 
Feels like 
one of the steps to overcoming our determination to 
maintain an educational system geared to work as 
slowly as possible. 
Read it and up-grade the schools 
in your town. 
—Jim Fadiman 
° 
As the class members shuffled through pages of material, 
the teacher started reading French phrases in different 
intonations. Then, stately classical music began in the 
background. The fifteen men and women leaned back, 
closed their eyes, and embarked on developing hyper- 
mnesia, more easily called supermemory. The teacher 
kept reciting. Sometimes her voice was businesslike as 
if ordering work to be done, sometimes it sounded soft, 
whispering, then unexpectedly hard and commanding. 
Shadows began to darken in the room, it was sunset, yet 
the teacher kept on, repeating in a special rhythm French 
words, idioms, translations. 
Finally, she stopped. They 
weren’t through yet; they still had to take a test. At least 
the class members weren’t as keyed up. Somehow during 
the session their anxiety had been smoothed, the usual 
kinks relaxed. But they still didn’t hold much hope for 
decent test scores. 
Finally the teacher told them. ‘’The class average is 
ninety-seven percent. You learned one thousand words 
in a day!” 
vf 
Increasing the enjoyment of other people is one of the 
most effective means of recreating socially constructive 
behavior in troubling youngsters. 
How to Live With Your Special Child 
a 
The Technology 
No sweet romance here. Written mainly for teachers and 
mainly about children suffering from various forms of 
weirdness, it speaks to us all. Peculiar and powerful. 
Refreshingly skipping the theory in this book, von 
Hilsheimer tells you what to do to make kids act better. 
Simple. Good. 
Offensive! I’m not sure why, but | 
do think everyone should read it; in fact | downright 
of Teaching 
ache for revolution in our schools, he makes it seem 
How to Live With 
BleyStinnen 
so possible, and because, as Richard Brautigan wrote 
Your Special Child 
1968; 271 pp. 
in Rommel Drives on Deep Into Egypt: 
George von Hilsheimer 
$8.95 Postpaid from: 
| remember all those thousands of hours that | spent 
1970; 272 pp. 
Prentice-Hall 
in grade school watching the clock, waiting for recess 
$7.50 postpaid from: 
Box 500 
or lunch or to go home. 
Acropolis Books 
Englewood Cliffs, NJ 
Waiting: for anything 
but school! 
2400 17th Street N.W. 
07632 
ee 
Washington, DC 20009 
My teachers could eaily have ridden with Jesse James 
for all the time they stole from me. 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
If you do not demand much change at each step, you will 
reinforce often, but your subject will progress slowly. 
If 
you demand too much, no response may satisfy, and the 
behavior generated up to that point will be extinguished. 
In deciding what behavior to reinforce at any given time, 
the basic rule is ‘‘Don’t lose your pigeon!”’ 
e 
A dedicated person is one who remains active for long 
periods of time without reinforcement. 
He does so 
because, either in the hands of a skillful teacher or by 
accident, he has been exposed to a gradually lengthening 
variable-ratio schedule. 
I do confess that I find the term “biofeedback” a clumsy 
neologism, and I always use the stuff whilst practicising 
Ericksonian hypnosis, old fashioned feedback with 
mirrors, mimicry, talk, and after painting the toes with 
Gentian Violet. I am not eclectic, merely thorough. 
Well, back in 1970 in the Last Whole Earth Catalog I 
touted to you Autogenic Systems and their marvelous 
brain wave analyzer and feedback system. In 1980 the 
Winner and still Champion is Autogenic Systems. 
First class operators will want to buy, for a mere $1700, 
the Autogenic 120A analyzer which reads the percentage 
of pulse rate activity in two bands (amplitude in one 
only), averages the pulse rate within two bands (ampli- 
tude in one), and sends you back a nice shushaby white 
noise or a mosquito-like tone. An alarm will screech at 
you if you go too slow, and silence greets going too fast. 
You can plug the signal into recorders if that is your 
desire, and the whole device fits nicely on a desk top. 
Mine has even survived a bounce to the floor when one 
agitated client tangoed too lustily. 
I have had some bizarre experiences with a couple of 
devices from Autogenic Systems, but I figure the best 
test of a 
company is the way they respond to harsh words 
and trouble (shooting you or it). I have had a hilarious 
sequence of proofs of Murphy’s laws, including at least 
80 corollaries, in my transactions with Autogenic Systems 
Suggestology and Outlines of Suggestopedy 
or Whole Earth 
—Diana Barich 
Household Store 
We believe that touching is so important that we actually 
run a “‘love-up’' rota of staff in our elementary residential 
programs. 
Even the most wooden staff member is received 
with delight. Each child is tickled, rubbed, fondled, 
patted and kissed goodnight with special words of affec- 
tion and joy. | am always impressed at the willingness of 
otherwise tough and aloof teenage criminals to accept 
this “baby” treatment. Our experience is sufficiently 
convincing that we persist in touching those teenagers 
who strongly reject touching. The weaker staff is not 
encouraged to take on these kids but strong staff 
members will tease and ridicule the aloofness and 
pursue and persist in touching. 
and have unfailingly been met with cheerful and often 
useful responses. This is very rare in any business using 
computer technology, so Autogenic gets the palm. 
Autogenic sells a number of devices. You can track your 
muscle tension, your skin conductance and your tempera- 
ture at all sorts of interesting locations. The manuals are, 
God Bless Them, written in standard American English. 
My friends in possession of Autogenic equipment have all 
reacted with enthusiasm when queried regarding their 
beasties and I do use my 120A every day. Information is 
free from Autogenic Systems, 809 Allston Way, Berkeley, 
CA 94710. 
Barbara B. Brown’s Stress and the Art of Biofeedback 
(1977; $2.95 postpaid from Bantam Books, 414 East 
Golf Road, Des Plaines, IL 60016), is the middlebrow 
book everyone has read. 
It is a readable, creative, and 
useful introduction. 
Also see George D. Fuller, Biofeed- 
back: Methods and Procedures in Clinical Practice (1980; 
$18 postpaid from Biofeedback Press, 3428 Sacramento 
Street, San Francisco, CA 94118). Readable. Useful. 
If you do not have the kind of gold the Autogenic Buicks 
cost (Grass makes the Cadillacs and Rolls Royces), then 
look on pages 68 - 71 of the Edmund Scientific catalog 
(our p. 562). Autogenic devices run from about $650 on 
up and are tools. Edmund’s stuff runs from $40 for a kit 
to $200 and are toys. Edmund does sell some very nice 
tool quality devices for making very peaceful sound. 
® 
The basic book by the originator of a different approach 
to education. Suggestology is the science of suggestion. 
The theory is presented in great detail, footnoted to death 
with both western and non-western sources. 
It is nothing 
short of an attempt to re-cognise the fundamental 
methods used in any teaching situation. 
Instead of 
manipulating, constraining, and conditioning the mind, 
Lozanov suggests that it is possible to teach more, hold 
the knowledge more usefully and flexibly as well as to 
transfer the knowledge to unfamiliar situations. 
At the heart of the applications discussed here is the use 
of the human voice in teaching. We learn differently 
Super-Learning 
(New Stress-free, Fast 
Learning Methods You 
Can Use to Develop 
Supermemory and 
Improve Business and 
Sports Performance) 
Sheila Ostrander, Lynn 
Schroeder and 
Nancy Ostrander 
1979; 342 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Delacorte Press 
1 Dag Hammar- 
skjold Plaza 
245 East 47th Street 
New York, NY 10017 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
through our ears than through our eyes. We all know that 
learning with a teacher is different than working from a 
text (even the most stylish of behaviorist offerings) yet 
the rationale for this is not mentioned nor taught in 
western psychology. 
After the theory, the book is filled with studies based on 
the theory, followed by sample materials that were really 
used. 
It all looks like straight scientific thinking, but it 
is far better and more valuable than that. 
The first uses 
in this country have been in the teaching of languages at 
10 times the Berlitz speed and improving various subjects 
at the high school /evel. 
—Jim Fadiman 
Movements of the eyeballs of a subject at the 
hypnotically suggested age of two days. 
Suggestology and 
Outlines of 
Suggestopedy 
Georgi Lozanov 
1971, 1978; 377 pp. 
$1 7.50 postpaid from: 
Gordon and Breach 
Science Publishers 
One Park Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
Movements of the eyeballs 
in a child during sleep. 
