on 
MICS _ 
Small Is Beautiful 
Few books have exerted such leverage on an Age as this 
one. 
| doubt if Americans have been so influenced by 
printed eloquence since Thomas Paine’‘s Common Sense 
helped focus our founding independence. Schumacher is 
fighting a similar oppression, only this time we colonized 
ourselves, as he reveals by sub-titling his book “Economics 
as if People Mattered.” 
The wonder of Schumacher’s work is his eminent practi- 
cality, based on his years with the British Coal Board (he 
predicted the 1973 Energy Crisis in 1958), and his 
effective proposals — most notably the re-invigoration of 
Intermediate Technology. 
With good sense and a mature spirituality, Schumacher 
comes on like John Henry against the mega-machine, 
sure that he will win,and he is. 
—SB 
Small is Beautiful 
(Economics as if 
People Mattered) 
E.F. Schumacher 
1973, 290 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid from: 
Harper & Row 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Fossil fuels are merely a part of the “natural capital”’ 
which we steadfastly insist on treating as expendable, as 
if it were income, and by no means the most important 
part. 
If we squander our fossil fuels, we threaten civil- 
isation; but if we squander the capital represented by 
living nature around us, we threaten life itself. 
Pe 
ae 
oe 
a 
From an economic point of view, the central concept of 
wisdom is permanence. We must study the economics of 
permanence. Nothing makes economic sense unless its 
continuance for a long time can be projected without 
running into absurdities. There can be “growth” towards 
a limited objective, but there cannot be unlimited, 
generalised growth. 
The cultivation and expansion of needs is the antithesis 
of wisdom. 
It is also the antithesis of freedom and peace. 
Every increase of needs tends to increase one’s dependence 
on outside forces over which one cannot have control, 
and therefore increases existential fear. 
As Gandhi said, the poor of the world cannot be helped 
by mass production, only by production by the masses. 
The system of mass production, based on sophisticated, 
highly capital-intensive, high energy-input dependent, 
and human labour-saving technology, presupposes that 
you are already rich, for a great deal of capital investment 
is needed to establish one single workplace. The system 
of production by the masses mobilises the priceless 
resources which are possessed by all human beings, their 
clever brains and skillful hands, and supports them with 
first-class tools. The technology of mass production is 
inherently violent, ecologically damaging, self-defeating 
in terms of non-renewable resources, and stultifying for 
the human person. The technology of production by 
the masses, making use of the best of modern knowledge 
and experience, is conducive to decentralisation, compat- 
ible with the laws of ecology, gentle in its use of scarce 
resources, and designed to serve the human person instead 
of making him the servant of machines. 
| have named it 
intermediate technology to signify that it is vastly supe- 
rior to the primitive technology of bygone ages but at the 
same time much simpler, cheaper, and freer than the 
super-technology, or democratic or people’s technology 
— a technology to which everybody can gain admittance 
and which is not reserved to those aiready rich 
and powerful. 
E.F. Schumacher 
e 
| have no doubt that it is possible to give a new direction 
to technological development, a direction that shall lead 
it back to the real needs of man, and that also means: 
to the actual size of man. Man is small, and, therefore, 
small is beautiful. To go for giantism is to go for self- 
destruction. And what is the cost of a reorientation? 
We might remind ourselves that to calculate the cost of 
survival is perverse. No doubt, a price has to be paid for 
anything worth while: to redirect technology so that it 
serves man instead of destroying him requires primarily 
an effort of the imagination and an abandonment of fear. 
Tools for Conviviality 
What does I/lich mean by “tool’’? A car is a tool. So are 
the machines, the factory, the company, and the industry 
that make it. A scalpel is a tool — but so is a doctor, the 
AMA, a medical school, and the medical profession. 
Machines, corporations, institutions, professions, units of 
government — all are tools. 
What is wrong now is that the tools are too big. They 
have turned us from tool-users into tool-tenders. 
The 
tools shape the product and the work. 
A society of large tools cannot be democratic, egalitarian, 
socialistic, humane, and just. 
/t must be hierarchical, 
exploitive, bureaucratic, and authoritarian. 
If the day 
comes when all of humanity’s wants can be supplied by a 
few giant tools, the people who tend them will rule the 
world. 
(See Vonnegut’s Player Piano.) ///ich wants us to 
make a society of tools to which we all may have access, 
and which we will direct and use to meet our own 
felt needs. 
—John Holt 
Tools for Conviviality 
Ivan Illich 
1973; 135 pp. 
$1 50 postpaid from: 
Harper & Row 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Convivial tools are those which give each person who 
uses them the greatest opportunity to enrich the 
environment with the fruits of his or her vision. 
Industrial tools deny this possibility to those who use 
them and they allow their designers to determine the 
meaning and expectations of others. Most tools today 
cannot be used in a convivial fashion. 
e 
Some institutions are structurally convivial tools. The 
telephone is an example. Anybody can dial the person of 
his choice if he can afford a coin. 
If untiring computers 
keep the lines occupied and thereby restrict the number 
of personal conversations, this is a misuse by the company 
of a license given so that persons can speak. The tele- 
phone lets anybody say what he wants to the person of 
his choice; he can conduct business, express love, or pick 
a quarrel. 
It is impossible for bureaucrats to define what 
people say to each other on the phone, even though 
they can interfere with — or protect — the privacy of 
their exchange. 
e 
Most hand tools lend themselves to convivial use unless 
they are artificially restricted through some institutional 
arrangements. They can be restricted by becoming the 
monopoly of one profession, as happens with dentist 
drills through the requirement of a license and with 
libraries or laboratories by placing them within schools. 
Also, tools can be purposely limited when simple pliers 
and screwdrivers are insufficient to repair modern cars. 
| have identified five realms in each of which the efficiency 
of tools can upset the balance of life. Faulty technology 
can render the environment uninhabitable. 
Radical 
monopoly can force the demand for affluence to the 
point of paralyzing the ability to work. Overprogramming 
can transfer the world into a treatment ward in which 
people are constantly taught, socialized, normalized, 
tested, and reformed. Centralization and packaging of 
institutionally produced values can polarize society into 
irreversible structural despotism. And, finally, engineered 
obsolescence can break all bridges to a normative past. 
e 
Almost overnight people will lose confidence not only in 
the major institutions but also in the miracle prescriptions 
of the would-be crisis managers. The ability of present 
institutions to define values such as education, health, 
welfare, transportation, or news will suddenly be 
extinguished because it will be recognized as an illusion. 
a 
More Ivan Illich 
See Energy and Equity on p. 175; Medical Nemesis 
on p. 386. 
& 
Ivan Illich 
 —— 
______ 
Toward a History of Needs 
The penetrating mind and needle of Ivan Illich meets 
further bloated institutions of the world money made — 
all commodities and services which bulldoze culture 
flat. 
The enemies he identifies are everywhere, handy for 
your personal, local flanking moves. 
—SB 
Toward a History 
of Needs 
Ivan Illich 
1977; 143 pp. 
$3.50 postpaid from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, 11 60016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
CONTENTS 
Useful Unemployment and Its Professional Enemies 
Outwitting Developed Nations 
In Lieu of Education 
Tantalizing Needs 
Energy and Equity 
e 
Today, words that are directed to one person’s attention 
have become rare. 
e 
For two decades now, about fifty languages have died 
each year; half of those still spoken in 1950 survive only 
as subjects for doctoral theses. 
e 
Beyond a certain threshold, the multiplication of com- 
modities induces impotence, the incapacity to grow food, 
to sing, or to build. The toil and pleasure of the human 
condition become a faddish privilege restricted to some of 
the rich. When Kennedy launched the Alliance for 
Progress, Acatzingo, like most Mexican villages of its 
size, had four groups of musicians who played for a drink 
and served the population of eight hundred. Today, 
records and radios, hooked up to loudspeakers, drown 
out local talent. 
e 
Each car that Brazil puts on the road denies fifty people 
good transportation by bus. Each merchandised refrig- 
erator reduces the chance of building 
acommunity freezer. 
Every dollar spent in Latin America on doctors and 
hospitals costs a hundred lives, to adopt a phrase of 
Jorge de Ahumada, the brilliant Chilean economist. Had 
each dollar been spent on providing safe drinking water, 
a hundred lives could have been saved. Each dollar 
spent on schooling means more privileges for the few at 
the cost of the many; at best it increases the number of 
those who, before dropping out, have been taught that 
those who stay longer have earned the right to more 
power, wealth, and prestige. What such schooling 
does is to teach the schooled the superiority of the 
better schooled. 
