Ng 
ee 
eee 
lle 
ee 
mre reer 
eer 
eel. 
erm 
Cree 
: 
i 
} 
Memories, Dreams, Reflections 
| think there is no more remarkable au tobiography 
in this century. Dream power and intellectual power 
collided in Jung’s life, merged finally, and carried him 
pilot-and-passenger on a psychic Gulf Stream, far and 
strange. He took 20th Century science with him. 
The recent editions of this book carry in full the Seven 
Sermons to the Dead that Bateson reviews below. 
It 
was absent from earlier editions, from The Collected 
Works, and was published privately and anonymously 
when it was written (1916) — the rarest feather 
from a rare bird. 
—SB 
Memories, Dreams, 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
Reflections 
Vintage Books 
C.G. Jung 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
4 
Household Store 
1961, 1965; 430 pp. 
At the beginning of 1944 | broke my foot, and this mis- 
adventure was followed by a heart attack. 
In a state 
of unconsciousness | experienced deliriums and visions 
which must have begun when | hung on the edge of death 
and was being given oxygen and camphor injections. 
The images were so tremendous that | myself concluded 
that | was close to death. My nurse afterward told me, 
“It was as if you were surrounded by a bright glow.” 
That was a phenomenon she had sometimes observed 
in the dying, she added. 
| had reached the outermost 
limit, and do not know whether | was in a dream or 
an ecstasy. At any rate, extremely strange things began 
to happen to me. 
It seemed to me that | was high up in space. Far below 
| saw the globe of the earth, bathed in a gloriously blue 
light. | saw the deep blue seas and the continents. 
Far 
below my feet lay Ceylon, and in the distance ahead 
of me the subcontinent of India. My field of vision did 
not include the whole earth, but its global shape was 
plainly distinguishable and its outlines shone with a 
silvery gleam through that wonderful blue light. 
In many 
places the globe seemed colored or spotted dark green 
like oxidized silver. Far away to the left lay a broad 
expanse — the reddish-yellow desert of Arabia; it was 
as though the silver of the earth had there assumed 
a reddish-gold hue. Then came the Red Sea, and far, 
far back — as if in the upper left of a map — | could 
just make out a bit of the Mediterranean. My gaze was 
directed chiefly toward that. Everything else appeared 
indistinct. 
| could also see the snow-covered Himalayas, 
but in that direction it was foggy or cloudy. 
| did not 
look to the right at all. | knew that | was on the point 
of departing from the earth. 
Later | discovered how high in space one would have 
to be to have so extensive a view — approximately a 
thousand miles! The sight of the earth from this height 
was the most glorious thing | had ever seen. 
C.G. Jung’s Septem Sermones Ad Mortuos 
by Gregory Bateson 
This tiny book is for me the greatest achievement of 
Jung’s life — the turning point in a long battle. He clearly 
recognizes in Memories, Dreams, Reflections that the 
days (in 1916) in which it was written were the beginning 
of all his later insights. 
At that time he was coming out of a long period of slow 
recovery from the influence of Freud and from the 
break with Freud. 
It was the moment for a new (or 
return to a very old) natural history of Man-God-Cosmos. 
The book is difficult to read. It is (of course) a sort of 
poetry, and therefore almost impossible to be reviewed 
and analysed in prose. And Jung’s views clearly changed 
as he wrote, even in the three or four days of the writing. 
He was in a state of transition. 
Man is a gateway, through which from the outer world 
of gods, daemons, and souls ye [the Dead] shall pass 
into the inner world; out of the greater into the smaller 
world. Small and transitory is man... At immeasurable 
distance standeth one single Star in the zenith. 
The book then both is a progress from macrocosm to 
microcosm and is a description of the landscape at various 
stages of that progress. 
It is not clear (does not matter) who is the novice and 
who the initiator in this strange catechism. Not only Jung 
but also the Dead are in transition. They came “back 
from Jerusalem, where they found not what they sought.” 
Excerpt from Jung’s Septem Sermones ad Mortuos 
i 
(Seven Sermons to the Dead) 
Altered States of Consciousness 
Still the best anthology of recent explorations of internal 
terra incognita — Here Be Dragons, kiddo — dreams, 
drugs, 
hypnagogy, meditation. 
| complained to Mike 
Harner (shaman anthropologist, p. 590) recently that | 
felt like | hadn’t had any really strong ideas in recent 
years. “Hm,” says Harner. “How /ong has it been since 
you had any strong medicine?” “Over ten years...” 
| began. | don’t remember the rest of what I said or he 
said. | remember his laughter. 
—SB 
Symbol of the sacred in a ring of flames floating above 
the world of war and technology. Painted in 1920, it 
was inspired by a dream Jung had had on 22 January 
1914, anticipating the outbreak of war in August 1914. 
C.G. Jung: Word and Image 
/f not nothing, then Jung is surely image. 
This collection 
by an old collaborator of his takes his lifelong caterpillar- 
crawl of thought and gives it colorful flight and new life. 
Jung’s biography is visible, as well as the things he saw 
that moved him, the archetypal images he recognized, 
and his own bizarre beautiful paintings, carvings, buildings. 
He lived with beautiful care. 
The book is bright and 
clear and not the slightest bit slick. 
—SB 
C.G. Jung: 
Word and Image 
Aniela Jaffé, Editor 
1979; 238 pp. 
$25 postpaid from: 
Princeton University Press 
Princeton, NJ 08540 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
be 
h 
Ny 
§ 
® 
Ii AG) HE dead came back from Jerusalem, 
y 
where they found not what they 
sought. 
They prayed me let them 
in and besought my word, and thus 
Harken: I begin with nothingness. 
Nothingness is the same as fullness. 
In infinity full is 
no better than empty. 
Nothingness is both empty 
and full. 
As well might ye say anything else of 
nothingness, as for instance, white is it, or black, or 
again, it is not, or it is. 
A thing that is infinite and 
eternal hath no qualities, since it hath all qualities. 
This nothingness or fullness we name the PLEROMA. 
Therein both thinking and being cease, since the 
eternal and infinite possess no qualities. 
In it no 
being is, for he then would be distinct from the 
pleroma, and would possess qualities which would 
distinguish 
him 
as something 
distinct 
from the 
pleroma. 
In the pleroma there is nothing and everything. 
It 
is quite fruitless to think about the pleroma, for this 
would mean self-dissolution. 
CREATURA is not in the pleroma, but in itself. 
The pleroma is both beginning and end of created 
beings. 
It pervadeth them, as the light of the sun 
Altered States of 
Consciousness 
(A Book of Readings) 
Charles Tart, Editor 
1969; 575 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid from: 
Doubleday and Company 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The Denial of Death 
Psychoanalysis is not such a big favor, it says here. Suc- 
cessful analysis takes away your difficult-to-deal-with 
neurotic fears of fathers and elevators and mothers and 
crowds and high places and sex. And then you have to 
face the realistic and impossible-to-deal-with fear of 
death. Becker says that we will always be neurotic to 
some extent because neuroses are a necessary way of 
keeping ourselves from remembering how terrible life 
is, and how short. Most people can‘t stand facing the 
horrible truth, so they settle for an uncomfortable 
but bearable lie. 
Creative people see more truth than most in Becker's 
view, and you notice that they go crazy a lot. 
A good book to shake you up and remind you that 
not all ills are curable, some of the worst ones come 
with the human condition. 
(Becker’s starting point 
is Freud. He disagrees with him and goes beyond him 
on many points but the book is probably Freudian 
enough to irritate people who totally reject Freud on 
feminist or general principles. 
| think it’s worth it; 
some people might not.) 
—Anne Herbert 
$2.95 postpaid from: 
Macmillan 
Publishing Company 
Order Department 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
By pushing the problem of man to its limits, schizophrenia 
also reveals the nature of creativity. 
If you are physically 
unprogrammed in the culture causa-su/ project, then 
you have to invent your own: you don’t vibrate to 
anyone else's tune. You see that the fabrications of those 
around you are a lie, a denial of truth — a truth that 
usually takes the form of showing the terror of the human 
condition more fully than most men experience it. The 
creative person becomes, then, in art, literature, and 
religion the mediator of natural terror and the indicator 
of a new way to triumph over it. He reveals the darkness 
and the dread of the human condition and fabricates 
a new symbolic transcendence over it. This has been 
the function of the creative deviant from the shamans 
through Shakespeare. 
From his state of transition, Jung sees three concepts 
to which he gives the Gnostic names: Pleroma, Creatura 
and Abraxas. There is also — man. 
Abraxas is approximately, Shiva, the ultimate Creator- 
Destroyer. The most terrible and most beautiful of 
all the gods that man contains within his microcosmic 
self and that in turn is contained in the macrocosm. 
Within Abraxas, the more familiar figures (Helios, the 
Sun; and the Devil, darkness) are subsumed. But it is 
Abraxas that gets the poetry. 
It is splendid as a lion in the instant he striketh 
down his victim. 
It is beautiful as a day in Spring. 
To look upon it, is blindness. 
To know it, is sickness. 
To worship it, is death. 
To fear it, is wisdom. 
To resist it not, is redemption. 
All this is within creatura, the realm where differences, 
distinctions, and ideas hold sway. The ground out of 
which creatura looms as figure (in the language of Gestalt 
theory) is pleroma — the totally unconceived and unstruc- 
tured realm about which nothing can be said or thought 
because to say anything is to create distinction. Call 
it “void” or “fullness,” it is still older and deeper than 
that first distinction by which creatura comes into 
recognition and therefore being. 
The book is exasperating, profound and beautiful. = 
e 
When | have been flying in my dreams for two or three 
nights, then | know that a lucid dream is at hand. And 
the lucid dream itself is often initiated and accompanied 
all the time by the sensation of flying. Sometimes | 
feel myself floating swiftly through wide spaces; once | 
flew backwards, and once, dreaming that | was inside 
a cathedral, | flew upwards, with the immense building 
and all in it, at great speed. 
