Vi 
J 
&. 
aw 
‘ 
2 
s 
JON 
ADICS © 
. 
One 
os 
Anybody’s Roller Skating Book 
It’s lunch time. A well-dressed man emerges from an 
attorney's office, locks the door behind him, and stoops 
fora moment. 
Bright red wheels pop out of his shoes, 
and he skates away, presumably to a local restaurant. 
What the hell? He’s just part of the rollerskate madness 
that is in the process of sweeping this country (and several 
others). 
If they aren’t skating near you now, they will be 
soon. 
In some locales, it has clearly gotten out of hand. 
/ recently attempted to walk through Golden Gate Park. 
/ had to walk on the grass, and even then | wasn’t safe 
from hurtling bodies on their way to a turf landing, 
often face down. Police say that there were more than 
35,000 skaters in the park that day. If youd like to 
know more than merely where to rent skates, this timely 
book will probably answer your questions. 
(It’s by the 
well-regarded author of Anybody’s Bike Book and Any- 
body’s Skateboard Book.) For the very /atest word, 
you'll have to frequent your neighborhood skate store; 
like their skateboard cousins, the new street skate tech- 
nology is advancing faster than the media coverage. And 
then, of course, there’s rollerskate disco, rollerskate 
Frisbee, skater’s armor, and (inevitably) a host of 
recently-enacted antiskater laws. Join the fun! 
—J. Baldwin 
$1.95 postpaid from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, |L 60016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Anybody’s Roller 
Skating Book 
Tom Cuthbertson 
1979; 188 pp. 
To use this heel stop, you just put that foot forward, tip 
the toe up slowly, and lean your weight back as you slow 
down, so you don’t pitch forward. 
It’s easy to do, and 
you'll find that you can stop in a much more controlled 
manner than you could with a toe stop or with the T- 
stop, especially on rough pavement. The one trouble 
with the heel stop is that it adds weight to the skate. 
If 
you don’t mind a little weight, use it. 
If you do, learn 
some of the other braking and stopping maneuvers, or 
be prepared to change your toe stops often. 
Misha Washington low riding 
Skate sailing 
You rest this thing on your windward shou/der, stand on 
ice skates on an icy lake, and there you are, sailing 40 
mph across the winter afternoon. 
—SB 
Icicle Skate Sail 
$115 - $125 
Information 
free from: 
Waterfun, Inc. 
Box 3442 Ridgeway 
Stamford, CT 06905 
aR eee 
PARACHUTING, ETC. 
& 
Anybody’s Skateboard Book 
Culbertson is particularly good explaining the various 
hardware, how to choose, use and take care of it. It’s 
by the same author as the excellent Anybody’s Bike 
Book (p. 410) which remains one of the very best. 
—J. Baldwin 
Anybody’s 
Skateboard 
Book 
Tom Cuthbertson 
1976; 144 pp. 
$3.50 Postpaid from: 
Ten Speed Press 
Box 7123 
Berkeley, CA 94707 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Sail trikes 
Unlike other landsailers, these rigs have pedals and so are 
legal on the road. Sail to Utah. People have. 
Costs range 
from $565 to $1535. 
—SB 
Sail Trike 
free from: 
Landsailers 
Rans 
— 
Information 
408 Milner 
Hays, KS 67601 
Zee 
LODAao 
by Dan Poynter 
PORT PARACHUTING has become a well-organized, 
well-recognized aviation activity since catching on 
some twenty years ago. Each weekend, more than 30,000 
skydivers take to the air making over 2 million jumps 
every year over North America. Next Whole Earth 
Catalog editor, Stewart Brand, has made 27 so far. 
After leaving a perfectly good airplane, you accelerate for 
eleven seconds until you reach some 120 mph and “‘ter- 
minal velocity’: that speed at which your weight equals 
your wind resistance. By standing on your head and 
Dan Poynter, with over 1200 jumps (at right) behind him, -} 
authored Parachuting — The Skydivers’ Handbook, 
Hang Gliding, Manned Kiting and The Self-Publishing 
Manual (reviewed p. 504). He’s been various sorts of 
national-level official in the worlds of parachuting and hang 
gliding. As a self-publisher he’s also a self-promoter (“an 
egotist, but honest,” 
say the organizations we checked with). 
Letting go of airplanes in flight will give you new relation- 
ships to: release, body, air, companions, hazard, death 
and pride. 
—SB 
Radical turn. 
Once you've mastered the slowing-down technique of 
wedeling, you can mix it in with traverses, some power- 
slide turns, riding in a crouch, and whatever other moves 
you want to decorate your downhill dance with. Or you 
can concentrate on slalom techniques, picking out marks 
or pieces of dirt or patches on the pavement to use as 
imaginary gate markers as you go along. The mixture of 
wide turns and carefully controlled slides is essential in 
this game; if, for instance, you have to make a wide turn 
on a steep hill to get speed in the controllable range as 
you do the wide turn, you'll have to pull two really fast 
wedel turns in the middle of the wide turn. Many riders 
call this a “check turn,” because of its similarity to a 
surfing turn. 
On the more level portions of a hill, like those that are 
about one-in-twenty, you can coast in gentle curves, but 
you can also do a sort of reverse wedeling, known as 
pumping. Pumping requires a board with some twang 
and a rider who can use his body english in perfect 
rhythm with the board as it turns and flexes. 
If you 
weight and unweight the board at just the right moments, 
and twist in such a way that you “’pull’’ the board 
through each turn, it will actually accelerate as it goes 
weaving along. Don’t let the wheels slide at all while 
Pumping, or you'll lose speed. 
reducing your frontal area to the air, you can accelerate 
to 190 mph. 
It is in this way of altering the body’s flying 
attitude that a long line of fast exiting skydivers are able 
to end up on the same level to join hands in a circle or 
other formation. The freefall challenge is to build circles 
(stars), lines (caterpillars), snowflakes, diamonds and 
other geometric patterns, one after the other. 
It is all 
too easy to transform the delicately balanced formation 
into a comical human waterfall. 
The most common jump is from 7,200 feet for a thirty 
|
second “‘delay”’ or freefall until it’s time to pull the rip- 
cord. Falling flat and stable (face-to-earth like Superman) 
burns up about 1,000 feet every five seconds and one 
always pulls the ripcord at 2500 feet. 
If the main para- 
chute should fail, one now has ten seconds to pull 
the reserve. 
The ride down under the large colorful nylon canopy 
takes about two minutes, and it may be steered to land 
almost anywhere you like. The view is incredible and 
there is no noise as you descend slowly over the country- 
side. 
Later you will graduate to the more exciting ‘‘ram- 
air” gliding canopies which are closer to a glider than 
they are to a parachute. 
Landings are like hopping off a cable car, or if you’re 
not from San Francisco, like jumping off the hood of a 
t 
aah ll 
