LE 
SSMS 
THE 
A 
SALLE 
A 
FTEEHE 
LO 
BV 
TZ 
if 
= Huan (Avert) tn 
noon mettre 
tot of 
Mangese 
iy the Sin 
FEeseatnl) Toros 
Pe eirte teens terror oete 
The Times Atlas of World History 
Most engrossing new reference book in decades. 
It’s a fine idea magnificently carried through. On planetary 
scale human history has a unity-within-boggling-variety, a 
headlong pace and sweep that puts our time in less 
frightening perspective. Praise be, the coverage of the 
volume corrects generations of Europe-centered versions 
of history. For example, Charlemagne’s capital at Aix- 
la-Chapelle in 790 A.D. is shown in puny contrast to 
other capitals of the time — Ch’ang-an in China, Baghdad, 
Constantinople, and even Cordoba. 
For me the volume is packed with news: complex fasci- 
nating sub-plots in regions I’ve scarcely thought of. The 
current uproar in the Mideast is minor compared to the 
centuries of surging conflict there. 
You can see the 
continent-changing impact of such social inventions as: 
plow agriculture; new cavalry and military intelligence 
tactics (Mongol tribesmen); aggressive religion (Chris- 
tianity, Islam); ocean navigation (Spain and Portugal); 
joint-stock companies for foreign trade (Holland and 
England). 
There are recent re-interpretations of the 
familiar events (the Minoan civilization in Crete fell 50 
years after the great earthquake of 1500 B.C., torched 
by conquerors from the mainland). 
Throughout, each 
map is ingeniously presented from the perspective of the 
time and people involved. 
You read enough history in this dynamic a form and 
pretty soon you want to do some. 
—SB 
$70 postpaid from: 
Hammond, Inc. 
515 Valley Street 
Maplewood, NJ 07040 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The Times Atlas 
of World History 
Geoffrey Barraclough, 
Editor 
1978; 360 pp. 
The collapse of the ancient world in the 5th Century A.D. 
All the great civilizations of the classical world came under 
Pressure from pastoral nomads who formed vast confederacies of mobile cavalry armies. The most dramatic fall was 
that of the Roman Empire in the west, but China north of the Yangtze was equally devastated. 
Persia was weakened 
and Gupta rule in India collapsed. 
The spread of food plants — almost all domesticated by 
prehistoric man in various parts of the world — had 
proceeded slowly until 1500, when they were transplanted 
to every continent. 
In addition, the American Indians 
were responsible for two major cash crops: tobacco and 
cotton (derived largely in its commercial form from 
varieties they had domesticated, though other species 
were known and used in the Orient before 1500). Cane 
sugar, introduced by Europeans into Brazil and the West 
Indies about 1640, also quickly became a staple of 
foreign trade. 
mare 
potato 
Out of Revolution 
Why is this unknown history of the West raved about by 
Martin Buber, W.H. Auden, Lewis Mumford, Reinhold 
Niebuhr, and Page Smith? The author Rosenstock-Huessy, 
writing in 1938, is personal, passionate, deeply unconven- 
tional, and, I’m convinced, deeply right. For him history 
proceeds by its national revolutions, its passionate self- 
encounters that bind past and future and startle the world 
system to renewed life. 
I’ve never meta 
history 
book that was so bio- 
logical, and biologically 
moral. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Richard Baker] 
Out of Revolution 
(Autobiography of 
Western Man) 
Eugen Rosenstock-Huessy 
1938, 1966; 770 pp. 
$9.35 postpaid from: 
Argo Books, Inc. 
Norwich, VT 05055 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
It is your own story that is told in this volume. That is 
to say: Any real man behaves in the volcanic hours of his 
own life as people behaved during revolutions. Those 
hours are extreme and terrible, yet they tell us more 
about the unity of human nature than soft days of 
peace from which behaviourists are apt to derive their 
political concepts 
.. 
. 
It is not the boastful John Falstaff, but St. John lying on 
the ground like one dead, to whom we must compare a 
nation in the birth-throes of conversion to its eternal role. 
In every-day life the most similar event was perhaps the 
act of the bride who passed from her parents’ house into 
that of her suitor by the one word “‘Yes."’ 
If she meant 
it, the full content of her life, her choice and her destina- 
tion, was implied in this moment. That is why the word 
spoken at such an hour has little to do with the gabbling 
which is also called language, but which is only the 
rubbish and off-scourings of creative speech. The bride’s 
single word of reply has a power as divine as the “Let 
there be light’’ of the world’s first day. Like the cry in an 
hour of revolution, her “yes” carries a weight as heavy as 
the most heroic action. 
It is a revelation of the woman's 
whole future, a decision over her whole past. It is irrev- 
ocable, and it is true. 
Such words and such moments are rare in the life of the 
individual, and in the life of mankind as well. Daily life 
prefers half measures and half lights. The pressure and 
danger must become tremendous, it must be a question 
of life and death, before our cold reason, our conventional 
language, and our fear of committing ourselves, will give 
way to the unmistakable and unique sounds of truth. 
e 
We sum up our statements thus: It is not valid to pretend 
that the workers are exploited by the capitalists because 
they get low wages. The real outcry of man’s offended 
nature should be that he is degraded because his boss does 
not care for his past or his future, and because he, the 
worker, is deprived of the power to weave past or future 
into his own day of work. 
The boss, by virtue of the privileges conferred upon him 
by liberalism, hires a man’s force and skill and presence 
and brains as a ready-made product. All the traditions 
that were needed to concoct this man’s talents, and all the 
props that are needed to keep up his character, are de- 
graded into his own private affair. 
e 
The secret of the due process of revolution is a progressive 
change in vocabulary. 
e 
This interchange of plants produced an enormous increase 
in food supplies, which made possible the unprecedented 
increase of human populations in modern times. 
It also 
initiated a corresponding increase in intercontinental 
trade. Before 1500, this trade had been limited to Eurasia 
and Africa, and involved mostly luxury goods; after 1500, 
the combination of regional economic specialization and 
improvements in sea transport made possible the gradual 
transformation of the limited medieval luxury trade into 
the modern mass trade of new bulky necessities. 
The conflict of Church and State is a capital fact in 
European history. Elsewhere kings and priests tended to 
work in harmony, and the result was a ‘monolithic’ 
society. In Europe, particularly in western Europe, the 
co-existence of two powers helped to promote the emer- 
gence of ‘pluralistic’ societies, in which the individual had 
to balance the different claims made on his allegiance. 
Here were the distant origins of modern individualism. 
The Rise of the West 
One humanity, one history, one fat little book. Some 
familiarity with world history will not help you to avoid 
mistakes, but it may help you recognize them and thus 
move on to more original ones. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Jib Fowles] 
The Rise of The West 
W.H. McNeil 
1963; 896 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid from: 
University of Chicago Press 
11030 South Langley Ave. 
Chicago, |L 60628 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
This seated diorite statue from Khafre’s funerary temple 
in Giza shows the divine king both in his human form and 
as Falcon Horus. The sculptor overcame the inherent 
awkwardness of such an artistic undertaking magnifi- 
cently, for the falcon’s protecting wings bind the two 
figures indissolubly together; and the sublime severity 
of the Pharaoh’s human face is reaffirmed by the aloof 
benevolence of the falcon’s expression. Such sculpture 
symbolized, and in symbolizing perhaps helped also to 
strengthen and define, the all-important role of the god- 
king in ancient Egypt. This skilled and stylistically 
perfect work was executed under the Fourth Dynasty 
(2650—2500 B.C.), when the resources of all Egypt were 
drafted for the constuction of the great pyramids. 
e 
Men some centuries from now will surely look back upon 
our time as a golden age of unparalleled technical, intel- 
lectual, institutional, and perhaps even of artistic crea- 
tivity. Life in Demosthenes’ Athens, in Confucius’ China, 
and in Mohammed's Arabia was violent, risky, and 
uncertain; hopes struggled with fears, greatness teetered 
perilously on the brim of disaster. We belong in this 
high company and should count ourselves fortunate to 
live in one of the great ages of the world. 
