588 MYSTIC! 
| 
ae 
SM 
Se 
Inner Development 
A Whole Earth Catalog (we don’t say this very often) 
of spiritual books, including natives, Celts, astronomy, 
Christian Bibles, Bahai, Cayce, fairy tales, Gurdjieff, 
humanistic psychology, Jewish mysticism, sufi, tarot, 
occult, Jung, Steiner, sacred geometry, etc., etc. 
It is 
a comprehensive gathering, up to date (1979), with 
capsule reviews of each book that do a remarkable job 
of summarizing the contents and remarking on their 
comparative value. 
Very nice work indeed by the Yes! Bookshop in Washing- 
ton DC which /1ll bet is worth a visit. 
—SB 
Inner Development 
(The Yes! Bookshop 
Guide) 
Chris Popenoe 
1979; 654 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Random House 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
29 
LAM 
UAOTPAAT 
LIN 
CALDER, NIGEL. THE VIOLENT UNIVERSE—AN EYEWITNESS 
ACCOUNT OF THE NEW ASTRONOMY. 7”x9%4”, 160pp. Vik69/ 
Fut, 4.95p. 
A superbly wnitten, illustrated book which presents the current state 
of knowledge, investigation and speculation concerning quasars, 
pulsars, neutron stars, anti-matter, exploding galaxies, and gravity 
holes 
® WALEY, ARTHUR, tr. MONKEY. 306pp. Grv43/Pen, 4.95p. 
This classic combination of picaresque novel and folk epic, which mixes 
satire, allegory, and history, is one of the most popular books 
in China. 
It is the story of the roguish Monkey and his encounters with major 
and minor spirits, gods, demigods, demons, monsters, and fairies. 
Waley has given us a wonderful translation of Wu Ch’eng-en’s novel. 
@ WATSON, BURTON, 
tr. CHUANG TZU, BASIC WRITINGS. 
140pp. Col64, 3.90p. 
An excellent prose translation of the seven inner chapters which form the 
heart of Chuang Tzu’s book, three of the outer chapters, and one other 
one. Watson does a wonderful job of recapturing Chuang Tzu’s spirit 
and message. An illuminating, long introduction places Chuang Tzu in 
relation to Chinese history and thought. 
WATSON, BURTON. THE COMPLETE WORKS OF CHUANG TZU. 
397pp. Col68, 24.75c. 
An excellent translation, probably the most scholarly and also most 
readable available. Watson also provides extensive annotations and an 
enlightening introduction. 
GILES, HERBERT, tr. CHUANG TZU: TAOIST PHILOSOPHER AND 
CHINESE MYSTIC. Introduction, notes, index, 335pp. A&U26, 
13.75c¢/8.95c. 
This is a complete edition of Chuang Tzu’s writings. Giles was an 
excellent scholar, but not the best translator for a writer like Chuang 
Tzu. His style is too stilted to recreate Chuang Tzu’s flowing narrative. 
The translation combines prose and poetry, but it is mainly prose. The 
cheaper edition is from Taiwan. 
Chuang Tzu (399-295 BC) lived 200 years after Lao Tzu. 
Using parables and anecdotes, allegory and paradox, he set 
forth the early ideas of what was to become Tapism. Central in 
these is the belief that only by understanding Tao (the Way of 
Nature) and dwelling in its unity can man achieve true 
happiness and be truly free, in both life and death. To him, nature 
is not only spontaneity but nature is a state of constant flux and incessant 
transformation. This is the universal process that binds all things into one, 
equalizing all things and all opinions. The pure man makes this oneness his 
eternal abode, in which he becomes a “companion” of Nature and does not 
attempt to interfere with it by imposing the way of man on it. His goal is 
absolute spiritual emancipation and peace, to be achieved through knowing 
the capacity and limitations of one's own nature, nourishing it, and adapting 
to the universal process of transformation. He abandons selfishness of all 
descriptions, be it fame, wealth, bias or subjectivity. Having attained 
enlightenment through the light of Nature, he moves into the realm of ‘great 
knowledge” and “profound virtue.” 
@ BROWN, RAPHAEL, 
tr. THE LITTLE FLOWERS OF SAINT 
FRANCIS. 359pp. DouS58, 2.45p. 
This book was written 100 years after the death of St. Francis to try to 
capture the true spirit of his life and the Franciscan way for the 
followers of that time. It has come to us as the classic gospel of the 
great saint. This edition contains twenty chapters never published in 
English before, and is considered the definitive presentation of these 
legends. It also includes a long, enlightening introduction on the 
background of the book and its historical significance; a biography of 
St. Francis and biographical sketches of the principle characters in the 
book; and notes, appendices, and a bibliography. In addition, the texts 
of the following works are included: The Five Considerations on the Holy 
Stigmata, The Life of Brother Juniper, The Life of Brother Giles, and The Sayings of 
Brother Giles. 
LEWIS, C.S. TILL WE HAVE FACES. 313pp. Eer56, 2.95p. 
This was C.S. Lewis’ last novel before his death in 1963, and the book 
he himself regarded as his best. Critics have said that the book has the 
stature of a religious classic, the intensity and eloquence of a powerful 
novel, and the provocative quality of a psychological drama. 
GRIS, HENRY and WILLIAM DICK. THE NEW SOVIET PSYCHIC 
DISCOVERIES: A FIRSTHAND REPORT ON THE LATEST BREAK- 
THROUGHS 
IN RUSSIAN PARAPSYCHOLOGY. Photographs, 
index, 324pp. PrH78, 10.95c. 
Not since Psychic Discoveries Behind the Iron Curtain was published 
in 1970 has there been such a comprehensive book on the Soviet 
Union’s all out attempt to investigate and harness the powers of the 
human mind. In six separate visits to the USSR, the authors used 
special contacts in the Kremlin as well as the parapsychology under- 
ground to obtain unprecedented interviews with Russians involved in 
all related fields. 
ee 
ee 
ne 
—=— 
Lucis Trust Library 
Naropa Institute 
Here’s an unusual item — a mail library of 1600 magical 
books. 
You can borrow two books at a time for a month. 
Lucis is a nice service that subsists on contributions; 
it probably is fragile to exploitive use. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Gerald Thatcher] 
Lucis Trust Library 
Catalog 
$1 contribution from: 
The Lucis Trust Library 
866 United Nations Plaza 
Suite 566 - 567 
New York, NY 10017 
e 
Anacalypsis, An Attempt to Draw Aside the Veil — 
Godfrey Higgins 
Apocalypse Unsealed, The — James Pryse 
Appolonius of Tyana — G.R.S. Mead 
Art of Seeing, The —Aldous Huxley 
Art Spirit, The — Robert Henri 
As Above, So Below — Alan Oken 
Asian Journal of Thomas Merton, The — 
Thomas Merton 
Astrologer’s Manual, The — Landis Knight Green 
—E 
Samuel Weiser 
Weiser’s is a huge mystical book store in Manhattan with 
a good mail order catalog. 
—SB 
The Meaning of Witch- 
craft by G.B. Gardner, 
$4.95—$7.95. The 
“old religion’’ in ancient, 
mediaeval and modern 
Samuel Weiser 
Catalog 
free from: 
Samuel Weiser, Inc. 
625 Broadway 
- 
history. 
New York, NY 100 
: 
TWWMONCRAFT | 
In Boulder, Colorado, a robust and innovative school 
has grown up around Chogyam Trungpa (author of 
Cutting Through Spiritual Materialism — see p. 585). 
Theater, music, dance, science, martial arts, poetry, 
and psychology are some of the courses. 
Leading artists, 
philosophers, and spiritual teachers regularly hold forth. 
Impressive operation. 
—SB 
Naropa Institute 
Information 
free from: 
Naropa Institute 
1111 Pearl Street 
Boulder, CO 80302 
Living Together Alone 
There are two good reasons and one bad one to read this 
clear account of life in nine quite various American 
monasteries (Trappist, Buddhist, Charismatic, etc.). Read 
it if you're thinking of becoming a monk for a while or 
ever. 
Read it to feel better about America’s long-term 
Prospects. 
Don’t read it as an academic study please. 
—SB 
Living Together Alone 
(The New American 
Monasticism) 
Charles A. Fracchia 
1979; 186 pp. 
$5.95 Postpaid from: 
Harper and Row 
General Books 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Pitta tore 
ea nae 
= 
A Benedictine monk at Christ in the Desert Monastery 
in New Mexico plants flowers near the guest house. 
‘There is nothing wrong with arches and hoods and chant,” 
Brother David answers. 
‘’Personally, these things are very 
much to my taste. 
But there is one decisive feature that 
makes an environment monastic: mindfulness. 
In fact, 
that's what a monastery is anywhere in the world, a place 
designed to foster mindfulness.” 
“Mindfulness in all its dimensions,’’ Father John adds, 
‘from the way we treat our garden tools, to responsible 
awareness of global issues, the arms race, exploitation, 
hunger.’’ Gregory tells of Good Shepherd House of Hospi- 
tality in nearby Norwalk, an outreach of the Grange, of 
which he is in charge. Forty and more hungry people 
come there every day for a warm meal and for assurance 
that someone is mindful of them and cares. 
‘‘Of course,"’ 
he adds, ‘‘what we receive is so much more than what we 
can give. Often I’m overwhelmed by gratefulness.”’ 
Gratefulness, my three hosts agree, is inseparable from 
mindfulness. The problem, as they see it, is that our 
affluent society conditions us to take more and more 
things for granted. But what we take for granted does 
not make us happy; it means nothing to us. Thus, as 
gratefulness deteriorates, happiness is lost, and the mean- 
ing of life is lost. They see their monastic foundation as a 
school for grateful living. More and more people exper- 
ience today a need to spend time in such a place. 
ee 
Mani Trading Company 
Fine religious items (non-Christian). Meditation bells, 
drums, statuettes, incense, prayer flags, and sweet service. 
—SB 
Mani Trading 
$2 from: 
Company 
Mani Trading Company 
Catalog 
Arnoldsberg Star Route 
Box 57 
Spencer, WV 25276 
KEISU: These are the thicker beaten copper-alloy gongs 
with the low b’ong tone. Cushions included, strikers 
as available. The bigger the gong, the better the tone. 
Smaller keisu gongs: 
AA(3%2” gong) 
Price: 
$19. 
A (4%") 
Price: 
$21. 
B (4¥2"’) 
Price: 
$27. 
Cc (4%4") 
Price: $36. 
D (5%2"") 
Price: $48. 
E (6") 
Price: $64. 
F (7¥%", brass, more bell-like tone) 
Price: 
$80. 
Temple size keisu: 
8"' gong, stand, cushion, and striker 
10" gong, stand, cushion, and striker 
Price: 
$250. 
Price: $375. 
