THE HYDROLOGIC CYCLE 
During water’s endless circulation from ocean to atmosphere to earth, 
it temporarily rests in place in the watershed. These temporary 
storage sites include the leaf canopy; the leaf litter and 
ground sur- 
precipitation 
face; the soil body plant and animal tissue; the eae basin 
CH 
a 
beneath the watershed; and lakes and streams. Above the watershed 
\ RS &, 
a 
ESA 
in the ill-defined and fickle airshed, water is stored in clouds. 
we oS 
|
Between the resting places water flows. The pathway of water 
S*2 s 
oe 
BY PROEOGIC 
|
depends on the energy of the sun and wind. A raindrop can 
Ske 
SOaYF ‘i 
CYCLE 
vaporize back into the atmosphere or be blown to the ground or 
SS 
geass 
<2 root up take 
ey 
Sta 
JO 
SS 
flow down a plant stem by gravity. Each kind of flow has a name. 
Throughfall is the flow off the leaves, direct to the ground. Stemfall 
is water channeled by the shape of the tree down its branches and 
trunk. Infiltration is the flow of water through the soil surface. 
Percolation is the flow within the soil and deep within the bedrock. 
Throughflow is underground flow that more or less follows the 
surface contours towards a stream. It occurs in the most permeable 
layers of soil near the surface. The invisible water fluxes are 
evaporation (water turns to vapor from the surfaces of lakes, 
uy 
leaves, and the ground) and transpiration (“‘exhaled” water vapor 
from plants). Sometimes both occur at once (evapotranspiration). 
up) is printed in this type face. 
Some of the most beautiful Chinese villages and 
towns were designed by geomancers. 
Today, we trace the lines of landscape force to 
two energies — the energy of gravity and the 
energy of the Sun. Water and land follow gravity 
to the sea. The Sun returns water to the sky by 
heating it up. Gravity returns it back to Earth. 
The spin of the Earth and its internal heat return 
land back from the sea uplifting and volcanoes. 
This is the Big Picture of watershed history. 
Both water and soils are never lost as they follow 
the paths of gravity and the sun throughout the 
total biosphere of Earth. They only change 
position in a planetary closed system. But each 
watershed is an open system with imports of rain, 
dissolved gases, human-made molecules and dust; 
exports of streamflow, water vapor, sediment, 
nutrients and heat. Over time, each watershed 
evolves a special kinship to the passing storms and 
changing seasons of radiant energy. Each becomes 
a unique rain and sun collector; a unique processor 
and regulator of its imports and unique exporter 
of its products. The watershed accomplishes this 
by structuring its parts (especially the drainage 
pattern) to accommodate drought and flood, 
forest fire or windfall, a population explosion of 
Geomancers 
This airphoto view of stream channel form inthe midwest illustrates how form reflects 
process and stability. The main trunk stream is meandering ina smooth sinusoidal 
pattern while flowing from left to right. Note that after the tributary stream discharges 
into the main stream, its meander wavelength and amplitude increase to accommodate 
the increased water and sediment. 
But also note that the tributary does not havea 
smooth equilibrium channel pattern. Close inspection reveals 
s 
n 
i 
water is taken out for irrigation. 
Further, at some point in time, the riparian vegetation 
of cottonwood trees was removed or partly cut, increasing sediment load. All of these 
assaults have created a non-equilibrium form that indicates that the channel will meander 
in an unpredictable way. This has been important in limiting the farm use of the lands 
adjacent to the side tributary. More land is not tilled next to the small tributary than 
next to the large stream. Disturbance of the watershed has cost in terms of stability 
and productivity of the side-stream tributary. 
+ 
Stored water is printed in this type face. Flowing water (down or 
that it is dammed and 
water table 
eet permeable 
less permeable 
VO a 
thro 
: 
Ugh tf 
ars 
Ow 
gy deep outflow 
JON GOODCHILD 
deer, or any of the human influences that can 
upset the balance of hill slope and river. 
River and hills send each other the news of recent 
upset. From the river’s view, the news can be a 
change in the amount of water coming from the 
hills, soil eroded from the hillsides, or rock en- 
countered by the river as it cuts deeper into the 
hillslopes’ valley. The less the disruption — river 
cutting slices out of the hill, hill slope caving into 
the river, streams eroding topsoil, topsoil muddy- 
ing rivers — the better the watershed can cradle 
its living plants and creatures, including us. 
Think and see like water. The watershed is rain 
and solar collector. Pulses of water delivered by 
rainstorms fall into the complex folds of the 
watershed’s outer skin. The hill slopes and rivers 
are just two kinds of pipe that convey water to 
the sea. The hill slope soils are a sieve. The river is 
an open channel. Plants, people, and ponds are 
just temporary and leaky canteens delaying water’s 
downhill course. The Sun vaporizes moisture back 
to the sky, short-circuiting water’s liquid journey, 
reducing its volume and power to sculpt and 
nourish the land. 
Think and feel like soil. Water can take or make 
soils. Water makes soils by weathering rock 
(dissolving it and cracking it during freezing). 
Water takes whole hill slopes by slides, heaves, rock 
and earth flows. Moving the loosened soil and 
rock down the hill slopes to the streams and rivers 
is called erosion. Moving the floating soils and 
rocks downstream in the water is called sediment. 
Floodplains and lakes are just temporary storage, 
delaying soil’s downhill course to the sea. When 
weathering and deposited sediment create a grow- 
ing place for plantlife and the plants can hold the 
soil to the hills more than water erodes it off the 
slopes, the soil accumulates. The surface of the 
watershed builds and plantlife thrives. 
Rainfall, Sun, plantlife and humans can alter 
this balance. They work together and encour- 
age a watershed either to make or to sluff off its 
soil mantle. 
Tying the water cycle and soils cycle to life and 
tying the physical landscape to the living eco- 
system is the most intricate and complex cycle of 
them all — the BIO(life)-GEO(earth)-CHEMICAL 
(combined elements) cycle. Water makes soil; 
soils make trees; trees shed leaves into streams that 
fungi and bacteria decay; insect larvae and other 
