WHOLE SYSTEMS 
CYBERNETICS 
An Introduction to 
General Systems Thinking 
As one of those persons driven to try to “understand” 
things, | have been remotely fascinated by General 
Systems Theory for several years. 
/t always seemed 
it would be too much work to approach any closer to 
this awesome-sounding subject via any of the “‘intro- 
ductory” texts. When Weinberg’s book was published 
last year, | took a chance and bought it immediately, 
based solely on the strength of his previous The Psych- 
ology of Computer Programming. 
/ haven’t been disappointed. 
Viewed from just about any 
perspective this book is an exemplary introduction to a 
complex subject. 
The fascinating observations are well- 
An Introduction 
to General 
Systems Thinking 
Gerald M. Weinberg 
1975; 269 pp. 
$24.50 postpaid from: 
John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 
One Wiley Drive 
Somerset, NJ 08873 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
General Systemantics 
You‘re heard of Parkinson’s Law? Murphy’s Law? The 
Peter Principle? Well this book is in the same spirit: a 
somewhat humorous presentation of some serious 
material. As | read along, | found myself being sensitized 
to some ideas that are all too often forgotten or overlooked; 
| saw disasters explained and potential disasters illumi- 
nated. 
I'll bet the book is making the rounds in many an 
engineering department. 
| like this book. 
—J. Baldwin 
[Suggested by Dean Gengle] 
General Systemantics 
John Gall 
1977; 144 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
Times Books 
Harper & Row 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Cybernetics 
McLuhan’‘s assertion that computers constitute an exten- 
sion of the human nervous system is an accurate historical 
statement. 
The research and speculation that led to 
computer design arose from investigation of healthy and 
pathological human response patterns embodied in the 
topological make-up of the nervous system. Insights 
here soon expanded into generalizations about commu- 
nication that permitted the building of analogous elec- 
tronic devices physically separate from the Central 
Nervous System. But theyre just one artifact of these 
new understandings about communication. Society, 
from organism to community to civilization to universe, 
is the domain of cybernetics. Norbert Wiener has the 
story, and to some extent, is the story. 
—SB 
Cybernetics 
(Or Control and 
Communication in the 
Animal and the Machine) 
Norbert Wiener 
1948, 1961; 212 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
The M.I.T. Press 
28 Carleton Street 
Cambridge, MA 02142 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
To predict the future of a curve is to carry outa certain 
operation on its past. 
e 
The central nervous system no longer appears as a self- 
contained organ, receiving inputs from the senses and 
discharging into the muscles. On the contrary, some of 
its most characteristic activities are explicable only as 
circular processes, emerging from the nervous system into 
the muscles, and re-entering the nervous system through 
organized and are stated in a consciously informal tone. 
Thoughtful questions for research and additional readings 
are provided for those who want to go beyond the scope 
of the book. Over a hundred wide-ranging quotes add 
to the fun. 
—William Courington 
[Suggested by Dennis Geller] 
Individual 
diversity 
Region Ill 
Types of populations in the prediction of epidemics. 
Number of people 
« 
Paradoxically, one way to master the power of a tool is 
to probe its weaknesses. Thus we offer the Count-to- 
Three Principle: 
IF YOU CANNOT THINK OF THREE WAYS OF 
A COMPLEX SYSTEM THAT WORKS IS INVARIABLY 
FOUND TO HAVE EVOLVED FROM A SIMPLE 
SYSTEM THAT WORKED. 
The inverse proposition also appears to be true: 
A COMPLEX SYSTEM DESIGNED FROM SCRATCH 
NEVER WORKS AND CANNOT BE MADE TO WORK. 
YOU HAVE TO START OVER 
, BEGINNING WITH A 
WORKING SIMPLE SYSTEM. 
SYSTEMS DEVELOP GOALS OF THEIR OWN THE 
INSTANT THEY COME INTO BEING. 
Furthermore, it seems axiomatically clear that: 
INTRASYSTEM GOALS COME FIRST. 
The reader who masters this powerful Axiom can readily 
comprehend why the United Nations recently suspended, 
for an entire day, its efforts at dealing with drought, 
detente, and desert oil, in order to debate whether UN 
employees should continue to ride first-class on airplanes. 
The formulators of this Law failed to generalize to 
systems as such, thereby missing — by a whisker, so to 
speak — their chance of immortality: Not just animal 
behavior, but the behavior of complex systems generally, 
whether living or nonliving, is unpredictable. 
the sense organs, whether they be proprioceptors or 
organs of the special senses. This seemed to us to mark a 
new step in the study of that part of neurophysiology 
which concerns not solely the elementary processes of 
nerves and synapses but the performance of the nervous 
system as an integrated whole. 
e 
The feedback of voluntary activity is of this nature. We 
do not will the motions of certain muscles, and indeed we 
generally do not know which muscles are to be moved to 
accomplish a given task; we will, say, to pick up a cigar- 
ette. Our motion is regulated by some measure of the 
amount by which it has not yet been accomplished. 
e 
The mongoose begins with a feint, which provokes the 
snake to strike. The mongoose dodges and makes another 
such feint, so that we have a rhythmical pattern of activity 
on the part of the two animals. However, this dance is 
not static but develops progressively. As it goes on, the 
feints of the mongoose come earlier and earlier in phase 
with respect to the darts of the cobra, until finally the 
mongoose attacks when the cobra is extended and not in 
a position to move rapidly. This time the mongoose’s 
attack is not a feint but a deadly accurate bite through 
the cobra’s brain. 
In other words, the snake’s pattern of action is confined 
to single darts, each one for itself, while the pattern of the 
mongoose’s action involves an appreciable, if not very long, 
segment of the whole past of the fight. To this extent the 
mongoose acts like a learning machine, and the real 
deadliness of its attack is dependent on a much more 
highly organized nervous system. 
e 
To use a biological analogy, the parallel system had a 
better homeostasis than the series system and therefore 
survived, while the series system eliminated itself by 
natural selection. 
We thus see that anon-linear interaction causing the attrac- 
tion of frequency can generate a self-organizing system 
.. 
. 
YBERNETICS IS THE DISCIPLINE of whole systems thinking. For a field of such importance 
it is shocking there are so few introductory books. The ones here, like the Bateson books on 
p. 28, introduce the cybernetic frame of mind and habits of mind that lead to on-going health 
effectiveness in all your dealings because they become self-adjusting. A whole system is a living system 
is a learning system. For more technical stuff proceed to p. 4617. 
—SB 
ABUSING A TOOL, YOU DO NOT UNDERSTAND 
HOW TO USE IT. 
Faithful adherence to this principle would protect us 
from the enthusiasm of the optimizers, maximizers and 
other species of perfectionists — but mostly from ourselves. 
e 
Consider the following passage: 
General Motors exists to put out cars, not metal 
scraps, although it extrudes both. Universities exist 
to produce educated persons and scholars, not retired 
professors or academic failures. 
That seems incontrovertible, but now consider what we 
should have thought had Miller written: 
Beavers exist to control floods, not to produce piles 
of wood chips. The oceans exist to produce fresh 
fish, not mud deposits or dead whales washed ashore. 
With ‘‘man-made” systems, we talk about ‘‘purpose,’’ 
whereas such language is forbidden for ‘‘natural’’ systems. 
Yet much of the dissatisfaction with our man-made sys- 
tems stems precisely from disagreement about what the 
“purpose” of the system is: that is, what the system 
“really” is. The answer, of course, is that the system has 
not “purpose,” for “purpose” is a relation, not a thing to 
“have.” To the junk dealers, General Motors does exist 
to put out scrap metal, yet the stockholders probably 
couldn’t care less whether General Motors is producing 
cars or string beans, as long as it is producing profits. 
e 
SOLUTIONS USUALLY COME FROM PEOPLE WHO 
SEE IN THE PROBLEM ONLY AN INTERESTING 
PUZZLE, AND WHOSE QUALIFICATIONS WOULD 
NEVER SATISFY A SELECT COMMITTEE. 
Item: When Pasteur accepted the challenge of the French 
silk producers to discover the cause of silk-worm disease, 
he had never seen, much less studied, a silkworm. He was 
not even a biologist. 
Item: The Wright brothers, who built the first successful 
heavier-than-air machine, were bicycle makers. 
e 
27. “SUCCESS” OR “FUNCTION” IN ANY SYSTEM 
MAY BE FAILURE IN THE LARGER OR SMALLER 
SYSTEMS TO WHICH THE SYSTEM IS CONNECTED. 
Corollary: 
IN SETTING UP A NEW SYSTEM, TREAD SOFTLY. 
YOU MAY BE DISTURBING ANOTHER SYSTEM 
THAT IS ACTUALLY WORKING. 
e 
32. LOOSE SYSTEMS LAST LONGER AND 
WORK BETTER. 
Corollary: 
EFFICIENT SYSTEMS ARE DANGEROUS TO THEM- 
SELVES AND TO OTHERS. 
The Human Use of Human Beings 
A proper sequel to his Cybernetics, this book is social, 
untechnical, ultimate in most of its considerations. 
/ts 
domain is the whole earth of the mind. Norbert Wiener 
is one of the founders of an n-dimensional inhabited 
world whose nature we’ve yet to /earn. 
The Human Use of 
Human Beings 
(Cybernetics and Society) 
Norbert Wiener 
1950, 1967; 288 pp. 
$2.20 postpaid from: 
Avon Books 
Mail Order Dept. 
250 West 55th Street 
New York, NY 10019 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
It is the thesis of this book that society can only be 
understood through a study of the messages and the 
communication facilities which belong to it; and that in 
the future development of these messages and communi- 
cation facilities, messages between man and machine and 
between machine and machine, are destined to play an 
ever-increasing part. 
° 
We are not stuff that abides, but patterns that perpetuate 
themselves. A pattern is a message, and may be trans- 
mitted as a message. 
e 
It is the great public which is demanding the utmost of 
secrecy for modern science in all things which may touch 
its military uses. This demand for secrecy is scarcely 
more than the wish of a sick civilization not to learn the 
progress of its own disease. 
e 
It is illuminating to know that the sort of phenomenon 
which is recorded subjectively as emotion may not be 
merely a useless epistage in learning, and in other 
similar processes. 
