1919 in response to the inspiration of the 
Russian Revolution. CPUSA members 
were active in unemployment organizing 
and union work during the Depression — 
particularly within the CIO. This was the 
Party’s heyday, when its prestige and 
influence both with workers and intellec- 
tuals were strongest. 
Yet tied as it was to the defense of the 
Russian Revolution, and consequently to 
Stalin’s foreign policy, the CPUSA had to 
perform a series of sudden about-faces 
(most notably following the Hitler-Stalin 
pact of 1939), which cost it its credibility. 
Moreover as the post-WWII Cold War grew, 
with help from the likes of Nixon and 
McCarthy, the Party came under heavy 
government attack as a “nest of spies.” 
It is still almost impossible to tell to what 
degree such allegations had a basis in fact; 
recent evidence, for example, indicates 
that the Rosenbergs may well have been 
framed, while Alger Hiss’ guilt is still up 
for grabs. Whatever the case, the CPUSA 
was once again devastated. One imagines 
that when Krushchev denounced Stalin in 
1956 and ushered in the era of “peaceful 
coexistence,” CPUSA leaders were only 
too happy to temper their menacing image 
accordingly. The Party’s current strategy, 
so un-menacing as to be positively tooth- 
less, is the ““Anti-Monopoly People’s 
Coalition” which aims to bring together 
trade unionists, the poor and small business 
people in opposition to “Big Business.” 
The ’60s’ New Left denigration of the 
CPUSA as a bunch of old has-beens had 
its core of truth. However, the Party is 
still the largest on the Left, publishes a 
daily newspaper (the Daily World), has 
thousands of members spread across the 
country and remains active (if low profile) 
in labor and community struggles. And, 
for better or worse, the CPUSA is still the 
organization against which most others 
(especially Maoists and Trotskyites) feel 
obliged to favorably compare themselves. 
Daily World (Continuing the Daily Worker) 
Carl Winter, Editor, $12/year (365 issues), 
From Long View Publishing, P.O. Box 
544, Old Chelsea Station, New York, 
NY 10011 
People’s World (A Weekly Associated with 
the CPUSA), Carl Bloice, Editor, $10/year 
(52 issues), from Pacific Publishing 
Foundation, 1819 Tenth Street, Berkeley, 
CA 94710 
Trotskyites 
The longest-running Leninist critics of 
Soviet-aligned communism are the Trotsky- 
ites. As Commander of the Red Army 
during the Russian Revolution, Trotsky 
was one of the top leaders in the U.S.S.R., 
until he came into strong conflict with 
Stalin, in part over Stalin’s policy of 
“Socialism in One Country,” the slogan 
under which Russia stabilized itself in 
the ’20s and moved towards heavy indus- 
trialization. Trotsky felt that it was 
Russia’s foremost duty to push for revo- 
lution worldwide — “Permanent Revolu- 
tion” — and he differed with other leaders 
in the Russian CP over how far and how 
fast such revolutions could be pushed — 
believing that they should be “‘one-stave” 
revolutions which would not cease until 
true Communism was instituted and thus 
“permanent.” Expelled from the CP in 
1927 and from Russia in 1929, Trotsky 
became a prime critic of Stalin and his 
methods. (Whether Trotsky in power 
instead of Stalin would have made much 
real difference remains a matter of histori- 
cal second-guessing.) In the ’30s Trotsky 
formed the Fourth International, a net- 
work of communist groups around the 
world in agreement with his views, as a 
rival to the Stalinist Third International. 
On August 20, 1940, Trotsky was assassi- 
nated by an ice-axe-wielding Soviet 
agent in Mexico City. 
The Socialist Workers Party is the largest 
and oldest Trotskyite group in the U.S. 
(In the ’50s and ’60s it was second only 
to the CPUSA in drawing fire from the 
FBI.) Like the CPUSA it has down- 
played the role of revolution — preferring 
to field candidates regularly for local and 
national office. During the Vietnam war, 
the SWP, along with its youth affiliate, 
the Young Socialist Alliance, thrust itself 
into the thick of the anti-war movement, 
where it won much resentment from 
others in broad coalitions through the 
SWP’s penchant for take-over ploys. 
The Militant (Newsweekly of the Socialist 
Workers Party), $24/year (52 issues), from 
The Militant, 14 Charles Lane, New York, 
NY 10014 
The SWP spent much of the ’70s working 
with women’s, gay and anti-racist struggles, 
but 1979 saw a major shift in SWP 
strategy with members being encouraged 
to get industrial jobs as lead-ins to rank 
& file organizing among workers. Two 
other Trotskyite groups have already made 
some inroads in this area, the Sparticist 
League and the International Socialists. 
The Spartacist League (SL) began as a 
splinter from the SWP in the early 60s, 
and has since stacked up a reputation as 
the most sectarian group on the Left (no 
mean feat in itself!). An enormous 
amount of energy is spent by SL members 
dogging the heels of the SWP and other 
communist groups — often with picket 
signs or leading questions intent on 
demonstrating the bankruptcy of its 
rivals’ positions. The SL’s approach to 
its potential supporters is equally un- 
subtle, with the SL paper Workers 
Vanguard commonly running headline 
commands such as “Hate Carter!” 
Yet despite such shenanigans the SL is 
not as isolated as one might imagine. 
It 
has militant caucuses organized in a 
number of union locals, most notably in 
The Communication Workers of America 
(the Phone Co. union). Using the union 
meetings, elections, and conventions as 
forums, the caucuses attempt to expose 
the “sell-out” nature of the unions, 
posing their own militant leadership 
as an alternative. 
Workers Vanguard (Marxist Working-Class 
Biweekly of the Spartacist League of the 
U.S.), Jan Norden, Editor, $3/year (24 
issues), from 
Workers Vanguard, Box 
1377, GPO, New York, NY 10116 
The International Socialists (IS) took a 
somewhat similar approach a few years 
ago when it helped organize the Teamsters 
for a Democratic Union (TDU) as a reform 
movement in that corrupt labor empire. 
At that time IS was the least rigid of the 
Trotskyite groups, eschewing the usual 
tight party discipline. However this was 
IS’s peak and following an attempt to 
more thoroughly Leninize, it suffered 
some crippling splits. The remaining 
group, considerably reduced in size, has 
had to retrench considerably. In contrast 
to SL’s combative purism, IS has, of late, 
been showing interest in uniting with any 
other Left groups with which it can reach 
certain minimum agreements. IS, one 
suspects, is not long for this world. 
Changes (Magazine of the International 
Socialists) Marilyn Danton, Editor, $10 
/year (12 issues), from Changes Socialist 
Monthly, 17300 Woodward Avenue, 
Detroit, MI 48203 
There are several other “Trot” groups, 
such as the Revolutionary Socialist League 
(an IS splinter) and the Workers League, 
with sizes ranging from tiny to small, 
whose unique qualities elude me. While 
Trotskyism is the predominant Left 
tendency outside of the Labour Party in 
England, over here it remains just one 
among many. 
Maoists and Post-Maoists 
Maoism is a relative newcomer to the U.S. 
Left, dating back to 1961 - 62 and the Sino- 
Soviet split. This geopolitical schism 
reverberated in the ranks of the CPUSA, 
precipitating the departure of a group of 
50 or so members who were sympathetic 
to China. This group, under the leadership 
of Milt Rosen, was to become the Pro- 
gressive Labor Movement, later the 
Progressive Labor Party. Just as Lenin had 
added his own theories to Marx’s, Mao 
added his to theirs; the result, most 
familiarly distilled into his ‘‘Little Red 
Book,” was “Mao Tsetung Thought.” 
At a time when most of the Old Left, 
ZANU's Mugabe 
to lead independent 
Zimbabwe 
New Left, and student movement were 
downplaying or oblivious to a “class 
analysis,” the PLP, in the mid ’60s, was 
making it their central concern. Only the 
Working Class (Proletariat) could make 
“the Revolution,” PL maintained in 
orthodox fashion. From 1966 to 1969 PL 
made a concerted effort to push this anal- 
ysis in the Students for a Democratic 
Society (SDS), the biggest and most 
influential New Left group. Through 
manipulation and grandstanding PL played 
a key role in SDS’s 1969 splintering, going 
so far as to maintain its own “SDS” for 
a few years following the blow-up. PL 
subsequently parted ways with China in 
1971, and today is a shadow of its former 
self, visible mainly through its strident 
front, the Committees Against Racism. 
Challenge (Newspaper of the Progressive 
Labor Party), $7.50/year (26 issues), 
from PLP, Box 808, GPO, Brooklyn, 
NY 11202 
6, SOE 
hs Sere 
SDS’s demise was the crowning blow to 
the amorphous New Left which had 
prided itself on its skepticism towards 
dogmatic Marxism. As the ’70s got 
underway there was a general knuckling 
down by the ex-student Left and a demand 
for more structure and theoretical co- 
herence which made many reconsider 
Marxism (and Leninism in particular). 
It 
is more than a little ironic that some of 
the SDS leaders who had fought most 
vehemently against PL’s encroachments 
in 69 are now proselytizing Maoists 
themselves. 
In fact, with PL no longer 
promulgating Maoism, the field has been 
dominated by two groups both led by 
former SDSers — the Revolutionary 
Communist Party (RCP) under Bob 
Avakian, and the Communist Party 
(Marxist-Leninist) (CPML) headed by 
Michael Klonsky. 
The RCP began in 1969 as the Bay Area 
Revolutionary Union, a local SDS Leninist 
study group. By linking up with similar 
study groups and collectives around the 
country it went national in 1970 as the 
Revolutionary Union (RU). RU played an 
important role in early efforts by the 
“New Communist Movement” (as the 
various independent Maoist groups and 
pre-parties called themselves) to build 
anew vanguard party to succeed the 
hopelessly “revisionist” CPUSA. However 
RU’s sectarianism, combined with some 
unpopular political lines - RU opposed 
busing to integrate schools, for instance — 
led to the group’s virtual exile from the 
rest of the Left by October, 1975. At that 
time it decided that party-building was 
over and unveiled itself as the fruition of 
its own dreams — the RCP! 
The Revolutionary Worker (Voice of the 
Revolutionary Communist Party), $12 
/year (52 issues), from Revolutionary 
Worker, Box 3486, Merchandise Mart, 
Chicago, IL 60654 
The CPML which began as a L.A. study 
group called the October League (OL) 
in 1970, went national in 1972 and 
thereafter followed a course similar to 
RU’s. Members of both groups have 
gotten jobs in basic industries, attempting 
rank and file organizing with only sporadic 
success. 
In the wake of Mao’s death in 
1976 and the purge of the “Gang of 
Four” in 1977, OL loyally followed the 
new Chinese regime’s policies. The RCP, 
on the other hand, after a prolonged 
silence on the matter announced its 
defense of the Gang of Four, and declared 
that China was now on the road back 
to Capitalism. 
Thus when OL became the 
CPML in 1977 (as the real 
vanguard party, of course) 
it received blessings from 
Beijing, with Klonsky 
personally sharing toasts 
with Hua Guofeng at 
official banquets. The 
tained a giant split on the 
issue, with nearly half its 
membership resigning in 
early 1978 to form yet 
ie 
yrOrke 
u 
_Z UNITE! _ 
|POLITICS 
another Maoist group, the Revolutionary 
Workers Headquarters (RWHq). 
Since 
then, the RCP has mobilized its remaining 
membership around a succession of special 
big events (Mao Memorial Services, May 
Day Celebrations) which serve to keep the 
cadres busy and built the personality 
cults of Avakian and Mao. 
The Call (Organ of the Communist Party 
Marxist-Leninist), $12/year (52 issues), 
from The Call, P.O. Box 5597, Chicago, 
IL 60680 
The RCP and CPML, of course, are not the 
only Maoist groups, merely the largest. 
The Communist Workers Party (CWP) — 
formerly the largely East Coast based 
Workers Viewpoint Organization — has 
been active in anti-Klan organizing and 
made national news when 5 of its mem- 
bers were tragically killed in ambush by 
Klan/Nazi forces in Greensboro, N.C. 
in November, 1979. 
The Workers Viewpoint (Political Organ 
of the Communist Workers Party), $13 
/year (50 issues), from Communist Workers 
Party, GPO Box 2256, New York, NY 10116. 
The League of Revolutionary Struggle 
formed in 1978 from the merger of the 
mainly-Chicano August 29th Movement, 
the Chinese-American I Wor Kuen, and 
several local collectives. 
It has recently 
entered into discussions of uniting with 
the CPML and the RWH4q. /f this occurs 
(and one must remember that the path 
of true love never runs smooth) the 
resulting party would probably dwarf 
all previous Maoist groups. 
Unity (Newspaper of the League of 
Revolutionary Struggle), $7.50/year, (26 
issues), from Getting Together Publica- 
tions, P.O. Box 127, Oakland, CA 94604 
Stalinists and Miscellaneous Leninists 
Beyond the Maoists there are still other 
M-L groupings that should be noted. 
Many of these are groups formerly faithful 
to China who broke with Maoism at 
varying points in the recent past. 
For instance, there are now at least two 
separate vanguard parties who cling to 
tiny Albania as the last “Bastion of World 
Revolution.” These are the Marxist- 
Leninist Party of the USA (MLP) and the 
Communist Party USA (Marxist-Leninist) 
(CPUSA-ML). The MLP is notable for 
publishing what is surely the dreariest 
newspaper on the Left, The Workers’ 
Advocate. (Sample headline: “Lies and 
slanders of the bourgeoisie will never stop 
the growing influence of Marxism- 
Leninism and the Communist Party of 
Trinidad and Tobago among the working 
class and people.) The CPUSA-ML, 
for its part, has given special attention to 
defending Stalin, proudly peppering 
their paper, Unite!, with quotes from the 
old butcher. 
The Worker’s Advocate (Voice of the 
MLP), $11/year (6 issues), from Marxist- 
Leninist Publications, P.O. Box 11972, 
Fort Dearborn Station, Chicago, IL 6061: 
Unite! 
$8/year (24 issues), from Unite! 
P.O. Box 6206, Chicago, IL 60680 
Finally there is another handful of 
Leninist groups not aligned with any one 
country who are still engaged in mutual 
discussions towards (surprise!) building 
a new party. Many of these discussions 
began in the pages of the Guardian (“the 
independent radical newsweekly”) 
througout the last decade. The leading 
New Left tabloid of the 60s, the Guardian 
went Leninist at that decade’s end, 
maintaining a loyal readership through 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
Multiple choice continued from last spread 
: 4. Ideas emerge from silence. The reason you 
RCP, for its part, sus- 
: think of things right before you go to sleep is that 
. you've finally shutup so the idea that’s been 
* knocking at your head all day can come in. 
continued on next spread 
O 
