Farmers of Forty Centuries 
| have come more and more strongly to believe that the 
ultimate moral goal, even the moral necessity, of the 
American people must be to become the aborigines of 
the American land. An aborigine, my dictionary says, is 
“an indigenous inhabitant . 
. 
. as contrasted with an 
invading or colonizing people.”’ An indigenous people is 
one “living naturally in a particular region or environ- 
ment.” In general, aborigines are preservers of their land, 
whereas invaders or colonizers are the exploiters and 
destroyers of theirs. White Americans have for the most 
part remained the invaders and colonizers of the Ameri- 
can continent; their relationship to the land has remained 
economic, exploitive, superficial, destructive. American 
history is to a fearful extent the history of a group of 
mercenary nomads, exhausting the land as they have 
moved over it. 
A great mistake has been to assume that people could 
become American in any sense that would be meaningful 
and ennobling by means of the souped-up emotions of 
public patriotism, nationalism. 
The fact is that meaning- 
ful native Americanism would have to involve a com- 
plexly reverent and knowing and preserving attitude 
toward the land; it would manifest itself not only in 
public fervor but in private behavior; and it would be 
based on methods of land use. No matter how “sophisti- 
cated” and urban our society becomes, our basic relation 
intense duty as a market 
and windsor beans. 
to the land will continue to be agricu/tural. And if we are 
ever to have a decent relation to our land, we will prob- 
ably have to begin by converting from agricultural 
methods that are exploitive and wasteful to methods 
that are preserving. 
For this we will need more than the 
scientific expertise that we have relied on so far; we will 
need models. 
A great deal in the way of models and examples is to be 
learned from the American Indians, for their relation to 
this part of the earth seems to me to have been exem- 
plary. Our assumption that we could learn to live here, 
ignoring their example, is a cultural disaster as well as 
an ecological one. But we have a great deal to learn from 
all truly indigenous peoples. 
The agricultural practices of 
primitives and peasants ought to be particularly instruc- 
tive to us, for these people have farmed the land with a 
sense of profound unity with it; their ways, formed 
slowly over generations out of an intricate knowledge of 
the land and its needs, have tended to preserve it. 
One of the richest sources of information about peasant 
agriculture is a book called Farmers of Forty Centuries 
by an American professor of agricu/ture, 
F.H. King. 
In 
1907 King traveled in Japan, Korea and China, looking 
closely at the local practices of agricu/ture and land 
management everywhere he went. He talked with experts 
and with peasants. He was full of interest in the knowl- 
An Agricultural Testament 
The first “organic gardener” | ever ran into was a man 
who ended all his sentences “thus saith the Lord.” The 
Lord, it turned out, had been in the habit of speaking in 
a very conversational manner to this fellow, and had given 
him all manner of helpful hints on gardening — among 
other things, a recipe for fertilizer. 
| noticed that the 
Lord’s side of the conversation tended to be most flattering 
to my new acquaintance, and most decidedly threatening 
to all the neighbors — a gang of villains, who were going 
to die of cancer because of such sins as listening to the 
wrong prophets, and cooking with aluminum pots. 
Now | would be the last to deny the possibility that a 
man might receive the word from on high and speak 
beyond the usual powers of his head. But | am exceed- 
ingly mistrustful of a man who depends on divine revela- 
tion to show him what is obvious about the ground under 
his feet. 
This man deservedly belongs in “the lunatic 
fringe” of a discipline that demands respect and attention 
not because it is far out or esoteric or mystical, but 
because it makes good sense. 
The principles of organic agriculture are not derived from 
mystical insight or revelation, but are based upon obser- 
vation, 
They have been established in our part of the 
world in our time by men who were excellent observers, 
and who were moreover accomplished and respectable 
scientists. 
The scientific respectability of organic 
methods has been obscured for us both by those who 
have insisted upon making a cult of the obvious and by 
the affluence and glamor of the technological agricu/ture 
— the agriculture of chemicals and corporations. 
Sir Albert Howard, in thirty years of research and experi- 
mentation, established scientifically the soundness of the 
ancient methods as seen in such books as Farmers of 
Forty Centuries by F.H. King. Howard’s work is based 
upon the premise that good agricultural practice is based 
upon the observation and the use of natural processes. 
King’s book, Howard thought, demonstrated that an 
agriculture based upon natural processes could thrive for 
an unlimited time, whereas an agriculture that contradicts 
Or ignores natural processes can only exhaust the land, 
and in its failure assures the failure of the society. 
Howard's thinking proceeds from one cardinal fact: “The 
forest manures itself.” He later elaborates this observa- 
tion in an agricultural metaphor: 
The main characteristic of Nature's farming can therefore 
be summed up ina few words. Mother earth never 
attempts to farm without live stock; she always raises 
mixed crops; great pains are taken to preserve the soil and 
to prevent erosion; the mixed vegetable and animal 
wastes are converted into humus; there is no waste; the 
Processes of growth and the processes of decay balance 
One another; ample provision is made to maintain large 
reserves of fertility; the greatest care is taken to store the 
rainfall; both plants and animals are left to protect them- 
selves against disease. 
And so the task Howard set himself was first to under- 
stand those processes and interrelationships by which the 
natural world sustains and renews itself, and then to work 
out methods by which people could use the land in 
cooperation with nature. 
He realized — and | think it 
would be hard to overestimate the importance of this — 
that the specialized analytical approach of “scientific” 
agriculture was creating more problems than it solved: 
Instead of breaking up the subject into fragments and 
studying agriculture in piecemeal fashion by the analytical 
methods of science, appropriate only to the discovery of 
new facts, we must adopt a synthetic approach and look 
at the wheel of life as one great subject and not as if it 
were a patchwork of unrelated things. 
He insisted that quality was a more important evaluative 
standard than quantity. He saw that the soil was more a 
process than a substance, that its life was more important 
than its analyzable contents, that its health was not a 
matter of inert proportions but a balance of live forces, 
and that therefore “the correct relation between the 
processes of growth and the processes of decay is the 
first principle of successful farming.” 
Howard's discoveries and methods and their implications 
are given in detail in An Agricultural Testament. 
They 
are of enormous usefulness to gardeners and farmers, and 
to anyone else who may be interested in the history and 
the problems of land use. But aside from its practical 
worth, Howard’s book is valuable for his ability to place 
his facts and insights within the perspectives of history. 
This book is a critique of civilizations, judging them not 
by their artifacts and victories but by their response to 
“the sacred duty of handing over unimpaired to the next 
generation the heritage of a fertile soil.” 
A matter of considerable interest to me is that, written 
within the context of more knowledge and from the 
perspective of a more urgent time, An Agricultural 
Testament can be read as a confirmation and elaboration 
of Jefferson’s belief in the supreme importance of the 
small farmer — the man devoted in final terms to his own 
piece of his homeland, who makes of the life of the land 
a human way of life. 
—Wendell Berry 
L. 
An Agricultural 
Testament 
Sir Albert Howard 
1940, 1973; 272 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
| 
Rodale Books 
| 
33 East Minor 
: 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
or Whole Earth 
a 
Household Store 
f} Young peach orchard doing 
garden, growing peas, cabbage 
LAND USE 
FARMING PHILOSOPHY 
75 
Farmers of 
Forty Centuries 
F.H. King 
1911, 1973; 456 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
Rodale Books 
33 East Minor 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
edge and the life of farming. His book is loaded with 
details of the life of the people, observed sharply, and 
put down with delight and sympathy. 
The question that King bore in mind throughout his 
travels was how these people had preserved their land, 
which after thousands of years of intensive use was as 
fertile as ever. 
The answer involved a complexity of 
methods and practices and traditions, but what it 
amounted to was that the taking of produce from the 
land was always balanced by a return of organic matter. 
The sewage of towns and cities, instead of being flushed 
out to pollute the waterways as with us, was brought 
back to the fields; the mud dredged from the canals was 
carried to the fields; no organic waste of any kind was 
ever thrown away, but always worked back into the soil. 
King has a lot to say about the methods of composting, 
intertillage, crop rotation, irrigation, green manuring, and 
so on. He has a scientist’s respect for statistics and he 
supplies plenty of them. But he also gives the sort of 
lively information that he could only have got by talking, 
by “passing the time of day,” with the people he met in 
the fields. He writes of practices, tools, materials, dimen- 
sions. 
His book is the best sort of manual; it is one of 
the pioneer books on organic farming. And for the same 
reasons it is the best sort of travel book; he talks occa- 
sionally about how the plants are cared for around some 
temple or shrine, but for the most part avoids “tourist 
attractions”; the life of the ordinary people, its sources 
and ways, was what fascinated him. 
There are more than 
two hundred photographs, not the work of a gifted 
photographer, certainly, but informative and useful. 
This is a book that can suggest things for you to do, if 
you have a piece of ground to do them on. 
Whether or 
not you have a piece of ground, it is a book that can 
change your mind. 
—Wendell Berry 
The Memory of Old Jack 
This fine novel established Wendell Berry as the pre- 
eminent voice of the cu/ture in agricu/ture these years. 
For a strong sermon see The Unsettling of America 
(p. 46). For a great read of the kind that might even 
take your own personal behavior to its depth, try this. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Tom Macy] 
The Memory of 
Old Jack 
Wendell Berry 
1974; 223 pp. 
$3.50 postpaid from: 
Harcourt Brace 
and Jovanich 
757 Third Avenue 
New York, NY 10017 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
He was learning a new desire, the subtlety and power of 
which surprised him. Like the ‘strange woman” whose 
delights were so carefully understood by Solomon, this 
new place claimed an ample space in his mind, which it 
implanted with its impulse and will, and filled with visions. 
It possessed as much of his consciousness as might stray 
from his work; it kept him awake at night. He wanted to 
see that place respond to him. He wanted to see it dress 
itself in green and be fertile and abundant for his sake. 
Before long there was not a building or a field inside the 
Farrier line that was not invested with a plan or a vision 
that bore the by then unmistakable mark of the character 
and the ways of Jack Beechum. They were the good 
and saving ways that had doubled the health and the abun- 
dance of his own place in the years since his father’s death. 
. 
eee 
eee 
eee eee eee eee eee eee 
eee essen 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
Pam went to Beloit College in Wisconsin. Daniel 
said that sounded like a frisbee landing on its side 
and Pam said they used to say it sounded like a 
marble dropping in a toilet. 
=>~ 
= 
— 
wg L24 
ze 
sly my acl 
Ca 
Pe on, 
