Over two hundred students were crammed into the 
room. Not a vacant seat could be found. The group 
seemed to be composed of students from many 
persuasions. There were the athletes, the social 
prominents, the student leaders, the loners, the group 
of kids that always left school early, the bikers, the 
pseudo hip, a few representatives of the school’s 
dadaist clique, and some of the students that hung 
out at the laundromat. The entire collection however 
looked like one force as they sat in perfect attention. 
Every person focusing on the TV set I had in the front 
of the room. No one moved. The room was empty 
of sound. It was like we were all witness to a birth. 
The tension and anticipation was beyond belief. 
“Before turning on the national press conference, 
which begins in five minutes, I want to demonstrate 
to the press the extent of our training.” With that 
I gave the salute, followed automatically by two 
hundred arms stabbing a reply. I then said the 
words “‘Strength Through Discipline,” followed by 
a repetitive chorus. We did this again, and again. 
Each time the response was louder. The photogra- 
phers were circling the ritual snapping pictures, but 
by now they were ignored. I reiterated the impor- 
tance of this event and asked once more for a show 
of allegiance. It was the last time I would ask any- 
one to recite. The room rocked with a guttural cry, 
“STRENGTH THROUGH DISCIPLINE!” 
It was 12:05. I turned off the lights in the room and 
walked quickly to the television set. The air in the 
room seemed to be drying up. It felt hard to breathe 
and even harder to talk. It was as if the climax of 
shouting souls had pushed everything out of the 
room. I switched the television set on. I was now 
standing next to the television directly facing the 
room full of people. The machine came to life 
producing a luminous field of pale blue light. Robert 
was at my side. I whispered to him to watch closely 
and pay attention to the next few minutes. The only 
light in the room was coming from the television and 
it played against the faces in the room. Eyes strained 
and pulled at the light but the pattern didn’t change. 
The room stayed deadly still. Waiting. There was a 
mental tug of war between the people in the room 
and the television. The television won. The glow 
of the test pattern didn’t snap into the vision of a 
political candidate. It just whined on. Still the 
viewers persisted. There must be a program. It must 
be coming on. Where is it? The trance with the 
television continued for what seemed like hours. It 
was 12:07. Nothing. A blank screen. 
It’s not going 
to happen. Anticipation turned to anxiety and then 
to frustration. Someone stood up and shouted. 
“There isn’t any leader is there?’’ Everyone turned 
in shock, first to the despondent student and then 
back to the television. Their faces held looks of dis- 
belief. In the confusion of the moment I moved 
slowly toward the television. I turned it off. I felt 
air rush back into the room. The room remained in 
fixed silence, but for the first time I could sense 
people breathing. Students were withdrawing their 
arms from behind their chairs. I expected a flood of 
questions, but instead got intense quietness. I began 
to talk. Every word seemed to be taken and 
absorbed. 
“Tisten closely, I have something important to tell 
you. There is no leader! There is no such thing as 
a national youth movement called the Third Wave. 
You have been used. Manipulated. Shoved by your 
own desires into the place you now find yourself. 
You are no better or worse than the German Nazi 
we have been studying. 
“You thought that you were the elect. That you were 
better than those outside this room. You bargained 
your freedom for the comfort of discipline and 
superiority. You chose to accept the group’s will and 
the big lie over your own conviction. Oh, you think 
to yourself that you were just going along for the fun. 
That you could extricate yourself at any moment. 
But where were you heading? How far would you 
have gone? Let me show you your future.” 
With that I switched on a rear screen movie projector. 
It quickly illuminated a white drop cloth hanging 
behind the television. Large numbers appeared in a 
countdown. The roar of the Nuremburg Rally 
blasted into vision. My heart was pounding. In 
ghostly images the history of the Third Reich paraded 
into the room. The discipline. The march of super 
race. The big lie. Arrogance, violence, terror. People 
being pushed into vans. The visual stench of death 
camps. Faces without eyes. The trials. The plea of 
ignorance. I was only doing my job. My job. As 
abruptly as it started the film froze to a halt ona 
single written frame. “Everyone must accept the 
blame — No one can claim that they didn’t in some 
way take part.” 
The room stayed dark as the final footage of film 
flapped against the projector. I felt sick to my 
stomach. The room smelt like a locker room. No 
one moved. 
It was as if everyone wanted to dissect 
the moment, figure out what had happened. Like 
awakening from a dream and deep sleep, the entire 
room of people took one last look back into their 
consciousness. I waited for several minutes to let 
everyone catch up. Finally questions began to 
emerge. All of the questions probed at imaginary 
situations and sought to discover the meaning of 
this event. 
In the still darkened room I began the explanation. 
I confessed my feeling of sickness and remorse. | 
told the assembly that a full explanation would take 
quite a while. But to start, I sensed myself moving 
from an introspective participant in the event toward 
the role of teacher. It’s easier being a teacher. In 
objective terms I began to describe the past events. 
“Through the experience of the past week we have all 
tasted what it was like to live and act in Nazi Ger- 
many. We learned what it felt like to create a disci- 
plined social environment. To build a special society. 
Pledge allegiance to that society. Replace reason 
with rules. Yes, we would all have made good 
Germans. We would have put on the uniform. 
Turned our head as friends and neighbors were 
cursed and then persecuted. Pulled the locks shut. 
Worked in the “defense” plants. Burned ideas. Yes, 
we know in a small way what it feels like to find a 
hero. To grab quick solutions. Feel strong and in 
control of destiny. We know the fear of being left 
out. The pleasure of doing something right and 
being rewarded. To be number one. To be right. 
We have seen and perhaps felt what these actions 
taken to an extreme will lead to. We each have wit- 
nessed something over the past week. We have seen 
that fascism is not just something those other people 
did. No, it’s right here. In this room. In our own 
personal habits and way of life. Scratch the surface 
and it appears. Something in all of us. We carry it 
aa hay 
+e 
~~ 
a 
a” 
ee 
POLITICS 
THE THIRD WAVE 377 
like a disease. The belief that human beings are 
basically evil and therefore unable to act well toward 
each other. A belief that demands a strong leader 
and discipline to preserve social order. And there 
is something else. The act of apology. 
“This is the final lesson to be experienced. This last 
lesson is perhaps the one of greatest importance. 
This lesson was the question that started our plunge 
in studying Nazi life. Do you remember the question? 
It concerned a bewilderment at the German popu- 
lace claiming ignorance and non-involvement in the 
Nazi movement. If I remember the question, it went 
something like this. How could the German soldier, 
teacher, railroad conductor, nurse, tax collector, 
the average citizen, claim at the end of the Third 
Reich that they knew nothing of what was going on? 
How can a people be a part of something and then 
claim at the demise that they were not really in- 
volved? What causes people to blank out their own 
history? In the next few minutes and perhaps years, 
you will have an opportunity to answer this question. 
“If our enactment of the Fascist mentality is com- 
plete, not one of you will ever admit to being at this 
final Third Wave rally. Like the Germans, you will 
have trouble admitting to yourself that you came 
this far. You will not allow your friends and parents 
to know that you were willing to give up individual 
freedom and power for the dictates of order and 
unseen leaders. You can’t admit to being manipu- 
lated. Being a follower. To accepting the Third Wave 
as a way of life. You won’t admit to participating 
in this madness. You will keep this day and this rally 
asecret. 
It’s a secret I shall share with you.” 
I took the film from the three cameras in the room 
and pulled the celluloid into the exposing light. The 
deed was concluded. The trial was over. The Third 
Wave had ended. 
I glanced over my shoulder. Robert was crying. 
Students slowly rose from their chairs and without 
words filed into the outdoor light. I walked over to 
Robert and threw my arms around him. Robert was 
sobbing, taking in large uncontrollable gulps of air. 
“Tt’s over.” “It’s all right.’ In our consoling each 
other we became a rock in the stream of exiting 
students. Some swirled back to momentarily hold 
Robert and I. Others cried openly and then brushed 
away tears to carry on. Human beings circling and 
holding each other. Moving toward the door and the 
world outside. 
For a week in the middle of a school year we had 
shared fully in life. And as predicted we also shared 
a deep secret. 
In the four years I taught at Cubberley 
High School no one ever admitted to attending the 
Third Wave Rally. Oh, we talked and studied our 
actions intently. But the Rally itself. No. It was 
something we all wanted to forget. 
= 
Ron Jones now lives in San Francisco, is a member of The 
Briarpatch Network, and publishes and edits the excellent 
Deschool Primer series of workbooks available from 
Zephyros, 1201 Stanyan St., San Francisco, CA 97117. 
(Reviewed on p. 571.) 
Another true story by Jones, The Acorn People, is pub- 
lished at $4.95 by Abingdon Press, 201 Eighth Avenue 
South, Nashville, TN 37202. 
: NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
a aS 
* One time a friend of Kathleen’s got tired of taking 
: all that acid without learning the truth, so he 
: decided it was time to take the trip. He went into 
. the back bedroom, closed the door, turned off the 
* lights — no visual or audio stimulus. He saw him- 
. self sitting in front of a door. He got up and 
* opened that door and there was a hall with a door 
- at the end and he opened that door and kept on 
* like that opening doors and getting, he could tell, 
closer and closer till he finally reached the door 
that he could just tell was the door with the answer 
and as he reached to open it the door knob in the 
real bedroom he was in started to turn and his 
roomate walked in and said, ‘‘What’s happening?” 
He decided he wasn’t supposed to know the truth. 
San 
WH 
Hte).a) 
6) 
6.0) 
0:6 
“@ 
‘ee 
