young trees. For, he told me (and I saw for myself), 
the war had disturbed him not at all. He had imper- 
turbably continued to plant. 
The oaks of 1910 were then ten years old and taller 
than either of us. It was an impressive spectacle. 
I 
was literally speechless and, as he did not talk, we 
spent the whole day walking in silence through 
his forest. In three sections, it measured eleven 
kilometers in length and three kilometers at its 
greatest width. When you remembered that all this 
had sprung from the hands and the soul of this one 
man, without technical resources, you understand 
that men could be as effectual as God in realms other 
than that of destruction. 
He had pursued his plan, and beech trees as high as 
my shoulder, spreading out as far as the eye could 
reach, confirmed it. He showed me handsome clumps 
of birch planted five years before — that is, in 1915, 
when I had been fighting at Verdun. He had set them 
out in all the valleys where he had guessed — and 
rightly — that there was moisture almost at the surface 
of the ground. They were as delicate as young girls, 
and very well established. 
Creation seemed to come about in a sort of chain 
reaction. He did not worry about it; he was deter- 
minedly pursuing his task in all its simplicity; but 
as we went back towards the village I saw water 
flowing in brooks that had been dry since the memory 
of man. This was the most impressive result of chain 
reaction that I had seen. These dry streams had once, 
long ago, run with water. Some of the dreary villages 
I mentioned before had been built on the sites of 
ancient Roman settlements, traces of which still 
remained; and archaeologists, exploring there, had 
found fishhooks where, in the twentieth century, 
cisterns were needed to assure a small supply of water. 
The wind, too, scattered seeds. As the water re- 
appeared, so there reappeared willows, rushes, 
meadows, gardens, flowers, and a certain purpose in 
being alive. But the transformation took place so 
gradually that it became part of the pattern without 
causing any astonishment. Hunters, climbing into the 
wilderness in pursuit of hares or wild boar, had of 
course noticed the sudden growth of little trees, but 
had attributed it to some caprice of the earth. That 
is why no one meddled with Elzeard Bouffier’s work. 
If he had been detected he would have had opposi- 
tion. He was undetectable. Who in the villages or 
in the administration could have dreamed of such 
perseverance in a magnificent generosity? 
To have anything like a precise idea of this excep- 
tional character one must not forget that he worked 
in total solitude: so total that, towards the end of 
his life, he lost the habit of speech. Or perhaps it 
was that he saw no need for it. 
In 1933 he received a visit from a forest ranger who 
notified him of an order against lighting fires out of 
doors for fear of endangering the growth of this 
natural forest. It was the first time, the man told 
him naively, that he had ever heard of a forest growing 
of its own accord. At that time Bouffier was about 
to plant beeches at a spot some twelve kilometers from 
his cottage. In order to avoid travelling back and forth 
— for he was then seventy-five — he planned to build 
a stone cabin right at the plantation. The next year 
he did so. 
In 1935 a whole delegation came from the Government 
to examine the “natural forest.” There was a high 
official from the Forest Service, a Deputy, technicians. 
There was a great deal of 
ineffectual talk. It was 
decided that something must be done and, fortunately, 
nothing was done except the only helpful thing: the 
whole forest was placed under the protection of the 
State, and charcoal burning prohibited. For it was 
impossible not to be captivated by the beauty of 
those young trees in the fullness of health, and they 
cast their spell over the Deputy himself. 
A friend of mine was among the forestry officers of 
the delegation. To him I explained the mystery. 
One day the following week we went together to see 
Elzeard Bouffier. We found him hard at work, some 
ten kilometers from the spot where the inspection 
had taken place. 
This forester was not my friend for nothing. He was 
aware of values. He knew how to keep silent. I de- 
livered the eggs I had brought as a present. We shared 
our lunch among the three of us and spent several 
hours in wordless contemplation of the countryside. 
In the direction from which we had come the slopes 
were covered with trees twenty to twenty-five feet 
tall. I remembered how the land had looked in 1913: 
a desert . 
. 
. Peaceful, regular toil, the vigorous moun- 
tain air, frugality and, above all, serenity in the spirit 
had endowed this old man with awe-inspiring health. 
He was one of God’s athletes. I wondered how many 
more acres he was going to cover with trees. 
Before leaving my friend simply made a brief sugges- 
tion about certain species of trees that the soil here 
seemed particularly suited for. He did not force the 
point, “for the very good reason,” he told me later, 
“that Bouffier knows more about it than] do.” At 
the end of an hour’s walking — having turned it over 
in his mind — he added, ‘tHe knows a lot more about 
it than anybody. He’s discovered a wonderful way 
to be happy!” 
It was thanks to this officer that not only the forest 
but also the happiness of the man was protected. He 
delegated three rangers to the task, and so terrorized 
them that they remained proof against all the bottles 
of wine the charcoal-burners could offer. 
The only serious danger to the work occurred during 
the War of 1939. As cars were being run on gazogenes 
(wood-burning generators), there was never enough 
wood. Cutting was started among the oaks of 1910, 
but the area was so far from any railway that the 
enterprise turned out to be financially unsound. It 
was abandoned. The shepherd had seen nothing of it. 
He was thirty kilometers away, peacefully continuing 
: 
LAND USE 
TREES 
his work, ignoring the war of 1939 as he had ignored 
that of 1914. 
I saw Elzeard Bouffier for the last time in June of 
1945. He was then eighty-seven. I had started back 
along the route through the wastelands; but now, 
in spite of the disorder in which the war had left the 
country, there was a bus running between the 
Durance Valley and the mountain. I attributed the 
fact that I no longer recognized the scenes of my 
earlier journeys to this relatively speedy transpor- 
tation. 
It took the name of a village to convince 
me that I was actually in that region that had been 
all ruins and desolation. 
The bus put me down at Vergons. In 1913 
this 
hamlet of ten or twelve houses had three inhabitants. 
They had been savage creatures, hating one another, 
living by trapping game, little removed, physically 
and morally, from the conditions of prehistoric man. 
All about them nettles were feeding upon the remains 
of abandoned houses. Their condition had been 
beyond hope. For them, nothing but to await death 
—a 
situation which rarely predisposes to virtue. 
Everything was changed. Even the air. Instead of the 
harsh dry winds that used to attack me, a gentle 
breeze was blowing, laden with scents. A sound like 
water came from the mountains; it was the wind in the 
forest; most amazing of all, I heard the actual sound of 
water falling into a pool. I saw that a fountain had 
been built, that it flowed freely and — what touched 
me most — that someone had planted a linden beside 
it, a linden that must have been four years old, already 
in full leaf, the incontestable symbol of resurrection. 
Besides, Vergons bore evidence of 
labor at the sort of 
undertaking for which hope is required. Hope, then, 
had returned. Ruins had been cleared away, dilapi- 
dated walls torn down and five houses restored. Now 
there were twenty-eight inhabitants, four of them 
young married couples. The new houses, freshly 
plastered, were surrounded by gardens where vege- 
tables and flowers grew in orderly confusion, cabbages 
and roses, leeks and snapdragons, celery and anemones. 
It was now a village where one would like to live. 
From that point I went on foot. The war just finished 
had not allowed the full blooming of life, but Lazarus 
was out of the tomb. On the lower slopes of the 
mountain I saw little fields of barley and rye; deep in 
that narrow valley the meadows were turning green. 
It has taken only the eight years since then for the 
whole countryside to glow with health and prosperity. 
On the site of the ruins I had seen in 1913 now stand 
neat farms, cleanly plastered, testifying to a happy and 
comfortable life. The old streams, fed by the rains 
and snows that the forest conserves, are flowing again. 
Their waters have been channeled. On each farm, in 
groves of maples, fountain pools overflow on to carpets 
of fresh mint. Little by little the villages have been 
rebuilt. People from the plains, where land is costly, 
have settled here, bringing youth, motion, the spirit 
of adventure. Along the roads you meet hearty men 
and women, boys and girls who understand laughter 
and have recovered a taste for picnics. Counting the 
former population, unrecognizable now that they live 
in comfort, more than 10,000 people owe their 
happiness to Elzeard Bouffier. 
When I reflect that one man, armed only with his own 
physical and moral resources, was able to cause this 
land of Canaan to spring from the wasteland, I am 
convinced that, in spite of everything, humanity is 
admirable. But when I compute the unfailing great- 
ness of spirit and the tenacity of benevolence that it 
must have taken to achieve this result, | am taken with 
an immense respect for that old and unlearned peasant 
who was able to complete a work worthy of God. 
Elzeard Bouffier died peacefully in 1947 at the 
hospice in Banon. 
« 
e bie 6. 6 (8) 
6 wb 
6 €\e.e een) © 6.616 ne te 8 
Uhe1e nee 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
wy, 
Susan hasn’t told her mother that she’s very sick in 
the hospital. A nurse said, “Well, honey, you 
really should, even though I can understand how 
you want to protect her.’’ And Susan said, ‘“‘Her? 
I’m protecting myself. She’d fly out here and 
attack me while I’m defenseless.” 
