| 1 BIRDHEADS (Sometimes called ‘‘Parrot”) — If you do a 
lot of work with heavy wire, these are just the thing. 
Compound levers let you snip through most wire like it 
; 
wasn’t there. Nose makes working overhead easy. 
(Silvo 
No. 690C - P14) 
2 FOUR-FOOT RULER — If you work with plywood or 
: 
4x 8 anything, one of these will save you lots of time 
: 
and grief. NB. Some new plywood isn’t 90° square!! 
Check it always. Best rulers have etched numbers. 
3 STEEL-HANDLED HAMMERS — Steel or fiberglas 
may not be as aesthetic as wood, but the heads don’t 
fly off when dry weather shrinks the handle. 
Violent 
nail pulling won't break them either. Pro carpenters 
don’t like them, claiming that they eventually injure 
elbows if used every day. 
yourself can free you from certain dependencies 
that you may find smothering. What if the $20.00/ 
hour plumber can’t come until next Friday? Repair- 
ing pipes is relatively easy. Once you learn how, you 
not only avoid being at someone’s mercy, you have 
a skill that can help friends or make money for you. 
How-to books are tools, in case you haven’t guessed. 
Another advantage of having some tools that you 
know how to use, is that as you get an easy, facile 
familiarity using them, you begin to get a better feel 
of the ergonomics of other techno-hardware that you 
use or make. (Ergonomics is the man-machine inter- 
face; how the steering wheel feels in the hand and 
how it tells you what's happening to the wheels; the 
wrist-breaking poor feel of eggbeaters; the built- 
into-you feel of a good rifle). Poor ergonomics is one 
of the main reasons behind the recent public dis- 
enchantment with technology. Things are made with 
the convenience of the machine in mind instead of 
: 
the human user. The result is hardware that is hard 
to hold, too cold or too hot, difficult to repair, easy 
to lose or lose control of, easily broken, etc., etc., 
etc. The machine is in control of you instead of the 
other way around. You can do better, yes? Most 
ie 
4 VISEGRIPS — Buy these by the genuine name Visegrip. 
They come in an array of sizes and jaw shapes, allowing 
you to grab what you see with a grip strong enough to 
crush things. Handy for undoing old rusty machines, 
and as a portable vise for welding, etc. 
5 “BERNARDS” — Pliers whose jaws work parallel (there's 
a nifty wire cutter too). We often use these in pairs for 
twisting and shaping small parts, and glass breaking. Our 
most pilfered item too; we've lost a dozen pairs. 
| can see 
why. 
(U.S. General No. 348-1022) 
ROCKWELL RADIAL DRILL PRESS — Our most-used 
tool, bar none. This V2-inch drill can extend to drill a 
hole in the center of a 32” circle, and can swivel out to 
drill big things sitting on the floor. 
It can drill at any 
angle, including horizontal. Though not of machine shop 
accuracy, it will do 99% of the work most people will ask 
of it. Radial feature costs extra and is worth every penny. 
You clamp the work down (we use a Versa Vise) and 
bring the drill to it at the desired angle. We have it 
mounted on a box that holds accessories and brings 
typical drill table height to that of other shop benches so 
we Can support long objects being drilled. 
Dependable 
too: no repairs in 14 years. 
It’s light enough to carry to 
a big job. 
VERSA VISE — These wonderful vises can stand up, lay 
down, swivel, and come with a clamp base that you can 
take to the job on the third floor. We have two,anda 
number of bases (one on the drill press table), allowing us 
to grip just about anything you could name short of a 
dead sheep in any position. They can be used as clamps 
when removed from base, a 1-second operation. Come 
with pipe jaws, too. Not for heavy metal work or heavy 
Pounding. 
(Silvo No. 73%2-C15) 
highly evolved good quality tools are ergonomically 
good. (Rifles are tools. You peaceable types can 
put down your neck hairs, it was only an example.) 
So without having to take a course in the subject, 
you can gain an informed feel of what is satisfying. 
As with most problems brought to us by technology, 
ergonomic problems are often best solved not with 
more technology but with clear thought and a better- 
informed intuition. 
An informed tool intuition works best if it’s aug- 
mented by an informed materials and processes 
intuition. 
For instance, if you don’t know anything 
about foundry work (casting), it’s unlikely that you 
will come up with ideas that require it. Often, this 
ignorance (ignore-ance) is easily remedied. A bit of 
inquiry may well show that what you had considered 
a black art is actually not one at all. Bronze and 
aluminum castings, for instance, are made every day 
in high school art departments by unskilled students 
using scrap metals from auto wrecking yards. Any- 
way, things take a form dictated by the possibilities 
inherent in the material to be used and the tools that 
can shape it, and the ideas in the head of the worker. 
It follows that the more you read, and snoop around 
palel 
6) 
@ 
16, 
610) 
6, 
6 
(© 
0.0) 
eave) 
s 
016 
6 6 
SOFT TECHNOLOGY 
GOOD TOOLS 
I|4l 
and experiment and practice, the easier it will all 
come and the more independent you can be. 
Freedom rising. 
The ultimate is to make your own tools. Tools 
fitted intimately to you by you. What could be 
niftier? Blacksmiths are really into that. A good 
example is found in the books by Alexander Weygers 
(p. 160). But tools need not be limited to the shop. 
How about making your own personal canoe paddle? 
Or your own left-handed kitchen equipment? You 
can modify existing tools too. For instance, when we 
needed to make 7-inch diameter pistons for a small 
production run of giant raft-inflating hand pumps, we 
reversed the bit in a hole cutter so it made discs 
instead. The pistons were then easily and accurately 
cut from heavy plywood with a great saving in time 
and material compared to turning them on a lathe 
that we would have had to borrow. Making the big 
pump’s leather “piston ring’’ seals proved to be easy 
after we spent some time talking to craftsmen in a 
sandal shop. With their advice, we soaked heavy 
leather discs in Mink Oil and then pressed them into 
the desired shape with a matched male and female 
die rammed by our vise. The dies were made on a 
bandsaw modified with a simple homemade attach- 
ment that enabled us to cut bevelled round holes 
with good accuracy. That attachment was also used 
to make the next batch of pistons, as it proved faster 
than the disc-maker on the drill press. Tools making 
tools making tools. 
| can hear some of you saying “small production 
run! Yuk...’ Unless you are an artist, and maybe 
even then, you will sooner or later need a bunch of 
things all alike. Even with only the most basic tools, 
you can mass-produce things. The precision and 
complexity of the produced parts is somewhat 
dependent upon the adaptability and quality of 
your tool bank, another reason to intelligently gather 
good stuff. 
Large scale mass-production tends to 
enslave both the workers and the customers. The 
workers are used as if they were machines. The huge 
capital outlay for the factory means that there must 
be a huge and relatively steady demand. This in 
turn means heavy manipulation of public ‘‘desires”’ 
and almost always involves politics and coercion. 
Small scale production, though, can mean a great 
reduction in drudgery as well as interesting possi- 
bilities in barter. 
By means of jigs and other 
| 
simple fixtures that you can figure out yourself, 
you can be freed from having to measure each 
part. Hold the piece of wood against the jig and 
} 
hit it with the drill and all the holes will be in 
exactly the same place in each part. 
(See Jigs 
and Fixtures, p. 163). 
We've mass-produced thousands of dome struts 
and parts for conventional construction. 
Weve 
also produced simple looms and the aforemen- 
tioned pumps (which we bartered for a fleet of 
rafts and got into the whitewater river running 
business), solar collector parts, signs (during an anti- 
freeway fight), toys, boxes, electronic parts, concrete 
forms, fence rails, adobe blocks, tents, shelving, 
lighting systems, and model parts, to name but a 
few. 
The ability to get on a small production run 
frees you from dependence on larger less efficient 
manufacturers, their prices, specifications and 
schedules. 
It can be rather fun, too, if it doesn’t 
go on for too long. “Shop Yoga,’’ we sometimes 
call it. 
And it can be done without sophisticated 
expensive equipment if you take the time to think 
it all out first. The thinking is the most powerful 
part. 
You can actually change some things out 
there! 
Maybe not in a big way, but certainly at 
a scale that you can understand. 
You will find 
that as you work, your understanding of tech- 
nology will increase a bit, and your fears based 
on ignorance will decrease. 
(Your fears based on 
newfound understanding might well increase, but 
that’s another paper.) 
In a modest way, you can 
combat the “machines taking over’’ by having 
better control of the technology you live with. 
It’s a good feeling. 
= 
eee 
eee 
eee eee 
eee 
eee 
ee eeeeeeeeeees 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
ow 
Mystics seem to do the creation story backwards 
— God goes from light to people, they go from 
people to light. 
: 
. 
