Stone Masonry 
Would you believe that the best most comprehensive 
book on building with stone would have Ken Kern (of 
The Owner-Built Home, p. 223) involved in there some- 
place? Well, the old master is at it again (with worthy 
friends) and the result is a joy to behold. As you might 
expect, esthetics are held to be as important as structure. 
Also expected and delivered are chapters on both dry and 
mortared technique, facings, and formed work. With 
the renewed interest in building with natural materials, 
this is all just in time. With photographs of everything. 
—J. Baldwin 
$12.20 postpaid from: 
Charles Scribner’s Sons 
Vreeland Avenue 
Totowa, NJ 07512 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Stone Masonry 
Ken Kern, Steve Magers, 
Lou Penfield 
1976, 1977; 192 pp. 
e 36 
“Say 
as 
{ 
= 
a 
e 
wen er ger? 
bent 
Sometimes one happens to find an old foundation ora 
chimney of stone. What a prize! Not only is the material 
stacked in one place but each stone has already proven 
useful. Most old foundations or chimneys are built dry 
(without mortar) or merely with mud, so dissembling 
them is not difficult. ... 
If permission to dissemble one of these structures is 
obtained, much can be learned about masonry while 
you take it down. As each stone is removed, pay close 
attention to how it was bedded in relation to other 
stones around it. The mere fact that this structure is 
still standing shows it was well built. Or if it is in partial 
ruin perhaps the reason will be indicated through your 
observation. 
Stone Shelters 
This is an utterly beautiful book, a study of the people, 
history, geography, and vernacular architecture in a small 
area in southern /taly known as the Murgia of Trulli. 
The several different types of stone shelters of the region 
are covered extensively, including cave dwellings hewn 
from solid stone, unmortared stone domes called trulli, 
and arches and vaults built with “‘ragbag patchwork 
technique” by the masons of Cisternino. 
The book is primarily concerned with how the architec- 
tural forms came into being and how the building 
techniques derived from the needs of the builders. 
Descriptions and text are clear, photos superb. 
—Lloyd Kahn 
e 
The masons of Cisternino were men of exceptional 
ingenuity. They sometimes laid up walls of regular stone 
blocks, but in other cases made walls by compacting 
irregular stones and mortar between wood forms. Their 
combinations of arches and vaults were often graceful 
Stone Shelters 
Edward Allen 
1969; 199 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
The MIT Press 
28 Carleton Street 
Cambridge, MA 02142 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
and correct, but more often were brutally expedient, and 
were most often full-blooded, lusty, folk-art inventions 
that made some charmingly naive concessions to grace 
and correctness. Nothing was sacred to the masons but 
the sheer physical stability of what they built. A half- 
arch could support a stair, a tilted barrel vault could cover 
it. A round barrel vault could be intersected by pointed- 
vault dormers. A triangular piece of vaulting could 
support a diagonal balcony front if held at its vertex 
On a projecting stone bracket.. A buttress to a building 
across the street could resist the excessive thrust of a 
roof vault, or of a too-ambitiously cantilevered balcony. 
An irregular room shape was easily covered with a skewed 
vault. Almost anything could be supported or spanned 
by cutting, twisting, tilting, truncating, or combining 
the standard forms of vaulting in non-standard ways. 
A transitional form of trullo field shelter, nonrectilinear 
in plan. A main space is joined to a smaller one housing 
a fireplace. Such shelters are often found with two or 
three smaller spaces attached to the main space, as 
illustrated in the small sketches. 
(Plan and section 
courtesy Byggekunst, redrawn by the author.) 
The making of a cave is the antithesis of the usual construc- 
tion process. A cave is space produced directly by the 
subtraction of a relatively small amount of solid material 
from a very large mass. A more conventional shelter, 
whether it be a tru//o, a vaulted stone townhouse, or the 
reader’s own dwelling, is space produced indirectly by its 
enclosure with pieces of solid material added together. 
N STONE 
Colble. 
strowme_ 
How to Build a Low-Cost 
House of Stone 
The Watson family (Lewis, Sharon, two girls) built a 
handsome low-cost 1100 sq. ft. stone house, moved in 
and wrote this fine booklet on their experiences. 
It’s 
the Flagg technique, as used by Helen and Scott Nearing 
(Living the Good Life, p. 76), using wooden forms to 
hold the stone and concrete until it sets. Amateurs can 
build straight walls this way. 
Rassle with rocks, not 
mortgage payments. 
—Lloyd Kahn 
How to Build a 
= 
Low-Cost House 
— 
of Stone 
Lewis & Sharon Watson 
: 
1980; 
96 pp. 
me 
6th Edition 
mn 
i 
$6 postpaid from: 
Stonehouse Publications 
5 
ee 
Box 500 
pont? 
son 
Sweet, |D 83670 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The slab floor was prepared and completed in about four 
days, the roof in about ten days, the wiring in a week, 
and the doors, windows, and miscellaneous basic finishing 
in about two weeks. With many other assorted jobs (trips 
to town, reading ‘“‘how-to” books, asking questions, etc.), 
we were actively building the house for about five months, 
May-September, 1973. 
e 
Decide how thick you want your walls. (We used 10” 
for 8’ walls and wouldn't recommend smaller diameters 
for this kind of construction.) 
Make sure all stones you 
gather have at least one axis that size or smaller. A rock 
with even 1/4" extra must either be chipped off or 
discarded, for it simply will not fit between the rigid 
forms you'll be using. 
ae le leve) ee, 4 
a ws 
= wells 
o 
0 
6 
6 
6 
6 
0 
@ \c,6 60 
6.'0 0) 0 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
gy 
Nae 
The Moon Club had a subtlety battle over the 
Widmanstatten pattern T-shirt. If you take an 
iron meteorite (one of the three kinds) and cut it 
and polish it with acid (it’s not clear why this was 
done the first time, except presumably nine- 
teenth century German Scientists have as many 
dull days as anyone else, maybe more), then these 
marks called Widmanstatten patterns appear and 
they appear on no other rock or substance, no 
matter what you do, unless you draw it. They 
look like a drunk has been repeatedly trying to 
draw a stop sign, but hasn’t been able to make the 
lines connect even once, though the lines from 
different attempts sometimes cross each other. 
Well, the proposed T-shirt has marks like that and 
the question is should they say nothing and be 
explained on request, should they say the sky is 
falling, or should they say the sky is falling. It 
was an interesting discussion with a boring out- 
come — no italics and a split run with and without 
printing. 
SOFT TECHNOLOGY 
MASONRY 231 
