New Alchemy Institute 
Many an outfit has been founded to do research aimed at 
environmentally benign ways of food raising, providing 
shelter, and dealing with energy needs. Few have come 
up with much that works and keeps working in-a convinc- 
ing way, and none but the New Alchemists, as far as | 
know, have managed to combine food production, 
energy making, and shelter into an integrated “ecosystem.” 
It has taken more than ten years of experimenting, hard 
work, and fundraising (perhaps the toughest part) 
to accomplish this, and the work is only now begin- 
ning to yield results that permit some cautious talk 
of its potential. 
Much of the research of the past ten years has come 
together in unique buildings named Arks. 
There are two 
— one on Cape Cod and the other much further north 
on Prince Edward Island, Canada, running mostly solar 
even in that tough climate, and probably able to run 
100% solar with a bit of tuning. Arks raise fish and 
vegetables, can process sewage, and require no fossil 
fuel for operation. 
They could be used as neighborhood 
food raising facilities, as hospitals, old folks’ homes, or 
schools. Big ones could BE neighborhoods ... The Arks 
are discussed in detail in John and Nancy Jack Todd’s 
Tomorrow Is Our Permanent Address, a book that a/so 
gives a very personal account of the reasoning underlying 
all the New Alchemist work. 
The Book of the New Alchemists gives a rather more 
detailed overall view of work that has been going on at 
the institute for many years — the parts that came 
together to make up the Ark as well as the garden 
experiments and other projects. The annual Journal of 
the New Alchemists presents what has been learned 
during the past year. The most recent, #6, features 
articles on: The Alkies’ increasing emphasis on tree 
crops; innovative windmill designs; a definitive water 
pumping windmill discussion; solar aquacu/ture; news 
from the Alchemist division in Costa Rica; a variety of 
articles on philosophies germane to New Alchemy work; 
and a free-swinging critique of three years of Ark experi- 
ence. 
Late news is carried by the New Alchemy News- 
letter, a quarterly that comes with your membership 
(as does the Journal). A number of how-to books based 
on New Alchemy research is planned for the near future. 
You can visit New Alchemy too, on Saturdays May 
through September. Apprenticeships are available and 
volunteers are usually welcome. 
There are also work- 
shops, classes, tours, and people who will give lectures. 
| think highly enough of the work of the New Alchemists 
that | accepted (flattered) an invitation to join the fray. 
It’s not a commune. We live in the surrounding commu- 
nity and are active in civic affairs. 
There is a tendency to 
live near the farm, and | suspect a wonderful neighbor- 
hood may be a-building. Though | haven't been there 
even a year yet, | think it’s clear that one of the reasons 
that so much has been accomplished is that this group 
works together unusually well. | think that a common 
goal has helped smooth over the bumps a bit, and a 
commendable scientific rigor has given the results a 
credibility not often seen outside of universities. We hope 
to be an inspiration to others. 
There’s plenty left to do. 
—J. Baldwin 
New Alchemy 
Tomorrow Is Our 
Institute 
Permanent Address 
Memberships: 
John Todd and Nancy 
$25 / 
Jack Todd 
yeas 
1980; 156 pp. 
(Associate) 
$100 Wear 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
fegaainiisl 
Harper & Row 
‘ 
Keystone Industrial 
$1 000 /year 
Park 
(Patron) 
Scranton, PA 18512 
(Membership includes 
the Journal, the news- 
letter, other mailings 
and certain privileges) 
The Journal of the 
New Alchemists 
(Number 6) 
Nancy Jack Todd, 
Editor 
1980; 184 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid 
(Inquire for prices of 
available back issues) 
New Alchemy 
Newsletter 
$1 each 
Information brochure 
all from: 
The New Alchemy 
Institute 
237 Hatchville Road 
East Falmouth, MA 02536 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The Book of the 
New Alchemists 
Nancy Jack Todd, 
Editor 
1977; 174 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid from: 
E.P. Dutton & Co. 
Two Park Avenue 
New York, NY 1001 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Woven basket-like cage allows poultry to eat the growing 
tips of the comfrey leaves. 
Basket is woven of basket willow (Salix purpurea). 
Comfrey (Symphytum officinale) is a high-protein 
perennial herb, eagerly eaten by chickens and geese. 
Most agricultural environments are intrinsically unstable 
because the crops are planted, removed, and altered from 
season to season. This instability can lead to pest out- 
breaks because biological regulatory mechanisms do not 
have time to become well established. 
In the Arks we 
have increased the ecological diversity and biological 
stability through the creation of aquatic and terrestrial 
“islands” throughout the interiors. These “‘islands’’ 
include stable perennial plants such as herbs, flowers, and 
grasses, like bamboo, that are not cropped. These provide 
stable habitats for pollinators, predators, and the para- 
sites of pest organisms. Among the predators are wasps, 
flies, predatory mites, spiders, frogs, and lizards. The 
aquatic “‘islands”’ have a special function in that they 
offer a habitat for damsel flies that prey on whiteflies 
(Trialeurodes vaporium) and other pests. The entire net- 
work of undisturbed islands is located in growing areas 
that are less than optimal for crop plants. 
—Tomorrow Is Our Permanent Address 
Although feeding a dog from a can or watering a plant 
is hardly tending a complex ecosystem, there are people 
who maintain vegetable gardens or tropical fish aquaria, 
and in so doing are, ina simplified form, caring for 
ecosystems. The step from a garden or aquarium to a 
bioshelter is one of degree, not kind. 
1n 1978 over half of 
the householders in North America had some kind of 
food garden. There are many million tropical-fish 
hobbyists. Both these facts suggest that people are 
willing to work with ecologies based on the same prin- 
ciples as exist with the Ark. These people represent a 
broad cross section of society. 
—Tomorrow Is Our Permanent Address 
a ee 
ek on 
a ey ee te eee 
eeoeeeereee 
ees 
eee 
ee 
eee 
eee 
eee 
& 
SOFT TECHNOLOGY 
NEW ALCHEMY 
Looking through the southern 
facade into the interior of 
the Cape Cod Ark. 
Windbreak succession/ 
diversification. 
As early 
suntolerant pioneer trees 
grow, resulting shade and 
wind protection provides 
microclimates for less 
hardy plants. 
177 
Coppiced willow as 
living fence, with live 
posts woven with 
trimmed shoots. 
e 
Insulation of Building with Planted Windbreaks 
Windbreaks of living plants have been well documented 
for their beneficial effect of reducing heat loss from 
buildings. The effect is due to reduced infiltration through 
cracks, reduced exterior convection loss, and in some 
cases reduced radiant heat loss. The net result is that a 
house with good wind protection on three sides (north/ 
west/east) can reduce fuel use up to 30% in comparison 
to a similar house exposed to full wind. Windbreaks 
perform as insulation, just as other more familiar methods 
such as double glazing, materials in wall cavities and 
weatherstripping do. Like these other methods, establish- 
ing a windbreak has a capital investment cost, a main- 
tenance cost, an expected working lifetime and a 
payback period that can be evaluated economically. 
Unlike these other methods, windbreaks are biological 
and appreciate in value rather than depreciate. They 
improve their performance automatically, using available 
sunlight rather than an initial input of fuel energy of 
manufacture. 
It is thus a unique insulation technique 
which requires a relatively small investment in order 
ultimately to obtain large benefits. 
The benefits of growing external! insulation will be 
particularly useful to older homes which often have high 
infiltration rates and walls too thin for adequate amounts 
of wall insulation: both of these difficulties are amenable 
to the effects of a good windbreak. The strategy of 
growing insulation isan example of applying biological 
solutions to what is normally conceived as a technological 
problem. The concept involved is that biological systems 
(in this case, plants) maintain and perpetuate themselves 
using solar energy, while technological systems usually 
require energy of manufacture, maintenance, repair and 
disposal in the form of fossil fuels under the attention of 
people. 
In addition, while protecting from wind the 
plants can: 
—produce food, 
—preserve soil, 
—control and purify water, 
—filter air of dust, smoke, odors, and 
—provide comfortable and pleasant living conditions. 
Each of these services has values that become apparent 
when a community must construct substitutes. 
—Journal of the New Alchemists, #6 
oS 
es 
6 Ore wy © 
© Glo @ <6).0) 10) Selle e) Se he) = 
a's 6 8) ee 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
Maybe it’s a good flag for right now because the 
stars and stripes and the general feel are based on 
quilt work and quilt work is based on scarcity — 
not having much material but making the most of 
what you've got. The flag actually looks like it 
was made from an odd bunch of scraps — quilt - 
together a life that’ll make it past 2000. 
Ky
Ww 
