YA 
tt 
; 
| 
i 
i 
i 
~ 
Rusty Schweickart was the first astronaut to go outside the space capsule without an umbilical 
(Apollo 9, 1969). He was working in the Applications department at NASA Headquarters in 1976 
when our watershed editor Peter Warshall phoned him and asked about, uh, going to the bathroom 
in Space, where water does not shed. 
—SB 
URINATION AND DEFECATION IN ZERO-G 
There Aint No Graceful Vay 
Astronaut Russell Schweickart tatking to Peter Warshall 
Peter Warshall: The thing that most people are really 
interested in, of course, is how you did it without 
gravity. That’s what everyone asks: 
‘“‘Does it just 
float up?” 
Russell Schweickart: 
Yeah, well it’s kind of interest- 
ing Peter, because | just came back from a thing at 
Purdue University. | spent about two and a half days 
with a bunch of kids out there. 
It was a really nice 
program and | had four kids who were sort of my 
personal hosts and hostesses, and we really got into 
that line of material. You’re right, everybody wants 
to know. That’d be kind of fun sometime, to just 
sit down and put together a whole article on how 
you do it in zero-g. Satisfy everybody’s scato- 
logical curiosity. 
It’s something everybody’s afraid to touch. Well, look 
if you’ve got a couple of minutes, | can describe a 
little bit of it to you. 
It’s the end of the day, and 
why not. 
Warshall: 
|’d love to hear it. 
Schweickart: Well, of course there are basically two 
regimes. One is in the space suit and the other is out 
of the space suit. While you’re in the space suit — 
which people always really mistake as a long period 
of time — we really wear the space suits relatively 
little. In Apollo and Skylab we wore the suits during 
launch and took them off shortly after getting into 
orbit, and put them on again only for EVA’s (extra 
vehicle activities). So you can figure out how much 
time that is. And then again, depending on the 
mission, sometimes we wore them for entry and 
other times we did not. So you’re basically talking 
about hours, maybe, depending again on the mission; 
anywhere from say, 4 to 20 hours, out of anything 
from 8 to 80 days. 
Warshall: 
It’s not really that much. 
Schweickart: 
Yeah, it’s not that much. Butit’sa 
fairly critical time, you know. When you’re in there 
you don’t have much choice, so you’ve got to design 
for it. Okay. So in the suit, for urine you use like a 
motorman’s bag, which is basically composed of a 
bladder that holds about — boy, my numbers are 
really slipping Peter — but something between a liter 
and two liters, if | remember. A rubber bladder type 
of thing that sort of fits around your hips, and a roll- 
on cuff which is essentially 
a condom with the end 
cut out that’s rolled over a flapper-type valve, you 
know, just a rubber flapper valve. It forms a one- 
way check valve. 
Warshall: Oh, | see, so you don’t have to do anything. 
Schweickart: No, you don’t do anything. You just 
roll it on as part of the suit-donning procedure, and 
then urinate into it through the one-way valve. There 
are lots of little cute problems and uncertainties. 
Un- 
less you’re an extremely unusual person, since the 
time you were about a year and a half old or so, you 
probably have not taken a leak laying flat on your 
back. And if you think that’s easy, let me tell you, 
you’ve got some built-in psychological or survival 
programs, or something which you've got to over- 
come. So that’s a tricky little thing. And then 
there’s always the possibility that in maneuvering 
around in a suit you can end up pulling off the 
condom, and there’s always — we have three sizes 
you know, small, medium and large — in diameter, 
and there’s always this little ego thing about which 
one you do pick. Of course the smart guy picks the 
right size, because it’s very important. But what 
happens is, if you get too small a size it effectively 
pinches off the flow and you just turn yellow 
because you can’t go; and if, on the other hand 
you’ve got an ego problem and you decide on a 
large when you should have a medium, what happens 
is you take your first leak and you end up with half 
of the urine outside the bag on you. And that’s the 
last time you make that mistake. So it’s a cute little 
trick there. 
GUMMED FLANGE WITH 
A STRIP-OFF COVER 
In terms of defecation 
inside the suit, there 
ain’t no graceful way 
to do it. So what we 
do is, we wear what’s 
affectionately called 
a fecal containment _varor ror 
system. The good old ‘tr 
FCS is essentially like 
a pair of bermuda 
shorts with a hole for 
your penis to stick out 
of to roll on this other 
thing, but fairly well 
sealed around there. 
It’s a tight fitting elastic type garment, and it fits 
especially tight around the thighs and around the 
FINGER 
THIMBLE 
SEALABLE 
CLOSURE 
CONTINGENCY 
FECAL BAG 
waist. And it’s just like a pair of diapers is what itis... 
made of material which obviously is non-permeable 
but still breathes and all it does is contain it. Now, to 
my knowledge, nobody’s ever had to use that. But 
you wear it, because if you don’t wear it, the con- 
sequences are rather drastic. Okay. So that sort of 
takes care of the in-the-suit situation. 
Warshall: Then you would take off that bermuda short 
type thing when you got back into the spacecraft. 
. 
. 
Schweickart: 
Yes, and you take off the transfer sys- 
tem, and if you’d used it, you transfer the urine into, 
well depending upon the policies on the particular 
mission, you either take a sample of it, for a scientific 
investigation, or you just dump it, one or the other. 
In terms of not in the suit, and in the spacecraft, 
again that’s varied. 
In Apollo, for feces you just 
stuck a plastic bag on your butt, which was 6 inches 
in diameter, something like that, maybe a little bit 
less, 12 inches or so long and the mouth of it had 
a flange at the top with an adhesive on it, and you’d 
peel the coating off the adhesive and literally stick 
it to your butt. Hopefully centrally located. And 
if you think you know where your rear end is, you 
really find out, because you'd paste it on very care- 
fully! So, you stick that to your butt, and then you 
go ahead and take a crap. But then the problem 
comes, because there’s no particular reason whatso- 
ever for the feces to separate from your rear end. 
So as a result, the problem is left as an exercise to 
the student to peel the bag off and make sure every- 
thing stays within the bag, and get all wiped off. It’s 
basically a one hour procedure. 
Warshall: 
For each time? 
Schweickart: 
Yeah, from the time you start to peel 
down to stick the bag on and all that, till the time 
you have finished cleaning up and have everything 
wrapped up and stowed and have your clothes back 
Al Bean urinating in Skylab Il. Just in front of his knee 
is the air-flushed fecal containment system, which you 
back up to. There’s no particular ‘‘up”’ in this picture. 
on and everything, it’s damn near an hour. And at 
times it’s taken longer. Because when you peel that 
bag off, you try to take a handful of paper, and you 
know, lead the way in with that, but by the time you 
get done, you’ve got stuff spread all over your back- 
sides, and if you’re not careful, your clothes, and 
everything else. 
Warshall: 
Have you ever had an accident where the 
stuff got out of the bag? 
Schweickart: 
No, because generally speaking it’s 
fairly sticky, so once it’s in the bag it doesn’t come 
out, but the problem is making sure it’s loose of you 
when you get the bag off. It just is not a simple pro- 
cedure, no matter what you do. Well, in any case, 
that was in Apollo. 
URINE DUMP. 
QUICK DISCONNECT 
In terms of the urine system, that was 
simple in Apollo. 
It’s just the same as 
a relief tube in airplanes. 
It’s a tube 
with a funnel on the end that 
you urinate into. And at the 
other end of the tube Is lower pres- 
sure than at the business end of it. 
So there’s a differential pres- 
sure in the outward direction 
RECIRCULATION VALVE 
AND NOZZLE 
URINE INLET 
BOOT (INTEGRAL 
CHECK VALVE) 
RECIRCULATION 
LINE (40 IN.) 
RINE BAG 
Well, we did exactly the same thing, except you know 
on the other end of the hose you’ve got a vacuum 
instead of a couple of psi down or something. So you 
just basically urinate into a relief tube. There have 
been various designs so you can use a roll-on cuff to 
do it or you can just hang it out there in the air and 
do it. There are a couple of different variations, but 
basically you urinated directly overboard through a 
relief tube. And of course, you didn’t lose much 
cabin air, because while the liquid is in the tube, in 
the hose, no air is going down. 
It’s differential 
pressure carrying the liquid. So it’s only a matter of 
designing it for the right flow rate. 
Warshall: They couldn’t do that for feces, some kind 
of vacuum system? 
Schweickart: 
Well, actually, in Skylab we did some- 
thing similar to that. But on Apollo the urine then 
would go outside, and you’d have to heat the nozzle 
because, of course, it instantly flashes into ice crystals. 
And, in fact, | told Stewart this, the most beautiful 
sight in orbit, or one of the most beautiful sights, is a 
urine dump at sunset, because as the stuff comes out 
and as it hits the exit nozzle it instantly flashes into 
ten million little ice crystals which go out almost in a 
‘
hemisphere, because, you know, you’re exiting into 
- 
)
4 
ms 
* 
4 
¥ 
* 
Pr 
~, £- 
a. 
