When Search and Destroy, the groundbreaking 
S.F. punk tabloid ceased publication early in ’79 
(‘mission accomplished’’), Damage stepped in to 
fill the gap. A heavy emphasis on group inter- 
views is being increasingly supplemented with 
opinion pieces, fiction, articles, trend news, and 
criticism. Compared to the semi-monolithic Slash, 
Damage’s identity is loose and diffuse — 
perhaps mirroring San Francisco itself. 
Damage, P.O. Box 26178, San Francisco, CA 94126. 
$10/year (12 issues). Brad L., Editor. 
Creep 
Creep, another S.F, punk rag is smaller, more 
personal, less regular than Damage. A fanzine, not 
a tabloid, Creep presents interviews, exhortations, 
lists, and gossip with unrelenting first-person honesty. 
Creep, P.O. Box 5528, San Francisco, CA 94101. $.75/ 
issue (no subscriptions). 
Sluggo!, which just moved from Austin, Texas, 
to San Francisco, is an amazing offset fanzine 
in various colors of inks and paper. Energy 
fairly drips off the pages, where cultural, political, 
and musical opinions and news vie for space. 
Plenty of strange art; comic strips, and interviews. 
And they print it in their own basement! 
Sluggo!, 530 Stanyan Street, San Francisco, CA 94118. 
$7.50/year (4 issues). Nick Modern, Editor. 
Quasi-Substitute 
Quasi-Substitute is a somewhat scruffy San Diego 
fanzine. Your standard reviews of live shows, new 
plastic, and band interviews, emphasizing San 
Diego’s scene. Around 16 pages of teeny type- 
writing plus photos and art. 
Quasi-Substitute, 4307 Date, La Mesa, CA 92041. $3/ 
6 issues. Checks payable to M. Toombs. 
AN UNEXPECTED side effect of the languishing 
death of “fine art’? has been the shifting of art 
activity out of galleries and museums and into the 
media. Enter ads as art wherein surrealism hovers 
Over grids of boomerangs selling you the addresses 
of boutiques. Ads as interior brain decoration. 
Perhaps this interchangeability of ads, art, and 
editorial matter is nothing new — yet the recent 
appearance of publications willing to admit it 
(and frankly exploit it) is. 
With immediacy, fashionability, and crisp aesthetics 
as the common denominators, the following pub- 
lications approach the antithesis of the original 
punk impulse, yet for better or worse they are part 
of the new wave mix. Fashion obsolescence being 
what it is, by the time this sees print they may 
have moved on; but for now... 
COMMUNICATIONS 
NEW WAVE MAGAZINES 
513 
Another Boom 
Cancel the above. Most urban ad tabloids start out 
free, with populist notions of “cheap media access 
for the (un)common man,” and a certain raw 
excitement. Of all such attempts in the Bay Area, 
Another Room alone has kept the faith (so far) — 
it’s still free and still worth a regular glance-through. 
Ads for bands and artists predominate, with a 
constantly improving smattering of puzzling 
graphics, art/music interviews and reviews 
spread throughout. 
Another Room, 1640 18th Street, Oakland, CA 94607. 
$6/year (12 issues). Lucy Childs and John Gulak, Editors. 
Boulevards 
Boulevards, on the other hand, has gone from 
similar humble origins (monthly ad tab for gay and 
punk boutiques) to the lofty realms of a 52-page, 
saddle-stitched magazine with columnists, feature 
articles, color covers — the works. For a buck. 
The scattershot unpredictability of the very first 
issues has long since gone, replaced with a certain 
chic reliability. 
Photo by Brian Hagiwara, Wet 
Boulevards, 1008 Sutter Street, San Francisco, CA 
94109. $8/year (12 issues). Kevin Jenkins, Editor. 
Wet 
One more rung up the ladder of commercial 
success resides Wet, formerly the magazine of 
Gourmet Bathing. Wet has long since left hot tubs 
behind for the greener pastures of life styles. The 
50s meet Japan meet post-disco spif meet 
New Wave and all go out for an expensive drink. 
Simultaneously striking and vapid, Wet is dandy 
intellectual cotton candy. 
Wet, P.O. Box 1017, Venice, CA 90291. $10/year (6 
issues). Leonard Koren, Editor. 
Far better is Impulse, from Toronto, which is 
graphically experimental, relatively ad-free (7 
pages out of 68, compared to Wet’s 42 out of 84), 
and editorially wide-ranging. An art magazine above 
all else (video, microfiche, performance), Impulse 
also covers new technology, architecture, music, 
and organized crime, sometimes in surprising depth. 
Impulse, P.O. Box 901, Station Q, Boston, MA 02115. 
$10/year (4 issues). Eldon Garnet and Shelagh 
Alexander, Editors. 
Subway flews 
Finally, this tabloid combines elements of all of 
the above into a package whose contradictions 
fascinate while they confuse. 
Leave it to Boston 
to spawn this mish-mash of 
new wave music, 
fashion pix, first-person reviews and gossip, and 
comic strips (by Mark Beyer, America’s best 
primitive cartoonist). Page layouts look, in turn, 
like the New Yorker, the National Enquirer, and 
the weekend entertainment section of any big city 
daily paper. 
Yet, on the whole, the Subway News 
works in its quirky way, and by its very eclecti- 
a 
cism may escape the usual degeneration into a pat 
formula. Good luck! 
Subway News, P.O. Box 149, Boston, MA 02115. $1/ 
issue. Doug Simmons, Editor. 
A word of caution on ordering these periodicals 
— as with the underground press of the ’60s many 
new wave publications have appeared to fill a 
need or express 
a mood — which they do far 
better than turn a profit. Except for New Musical 
Express, Wet, Trouser Press, and Boulevards I’m 
unsure I could predict the continued existence of 
the reviewed publications by the time this sees 
print, much less months later. Moreover, sub- 
scriptions, while great in theory, are often screwed 
up in practice. (The New York Rocker never did 
get mine straight. I’m now back to buying them at 
my local record shop.) If ordering sample copies, 
add $ .50 to single copy price 
/ 
for postage. 
= 
i 
| 
‘THE RISING SUN 
: NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
=Q= 
o.¥.\0 
+ Susan asked me if I 
was a backpacker and Ben 
* said, “Do bears read poetry in the woods?” 
