PROCEDURE 
3 
sR 
MAILORDER 
How to Order 
Items in This Catalog 
Consider these points of mail-order etiquette 
essential. 
They'll make shopping by mail more 
pleasant for you, and they make work much 
lighter at the companies you're dealing with. 
This 
advice is distilled from the requests of hundreds 
of small firms we're listing, plus our own 
experience doing mail order for the past 12 years. 
7. Send payment. Most of the companies we list 
can’t handle billing you later. Cash or stamps 
are no good. Checks or money orders made out 
to the company’s name are best. 
/f you’re buying 
expensive products like music synthesizers or solar 
collectors, they usually come with catalogs which 
describe credit terms if there are any. 
2. Say what you want on the outside of the 
envelope. Write “mail order” or “catalog request” 
or “subscription order” under the address. Why 
should several people have to /ook at a letter 
which only one person needs to see? That’s how 
things get /ost. 
3. Expect prices to go up. The prices given in 
this first edition of the Next Catalog are accurate 
for summer 1980, and will doubtless climb in step 
with inflation. Most publishers and firms will 
write you back if you've sent too little money. 
Some will bill for the extra amount. 
4. Expect prices to be higher if you live outside 
the U.S. A fair rule of thumb is to add a dollar 
or two if you live in Canada or Mexico, and add 
two or three dollars if you live outside North 
America. 
|f you live overseas it’s often best to 
write for the price. Enclose International Reply 
Coupons and a self-addressed envelope if you'do. 
5. Don’t send U.S. checks or money overseas. 
/t costs, for instance, a British firm $4 to cash a 
$2 U.S. check. Send International Reply 
Coupons, which you can buy at any post office. 
Since foreign exchange rates fluctuate, we've listed 
foreign prices in the foreign currencies, with an 
approximate U.S. equivalent for 1980. 
6. Pay sales tax. /t’s only needed if you live in 
the same state as the firm you're ordering from. 
You should know what it is in your state. 
/f you 
leave it out, some companies will fill the order 
anyway, others won’t. 
7. Use order numbers where we've listed them. 
For the Government Printing Office and the 
National Technical Information Service, for 
example, they're essential. 
8. Be patient! /t always takes at /east a week or 
two for your goods to arrive; a month’s wait Is 
normal. 
You shouldnt worry unless it’s taken 
more than two months. Keep a record of the date 
of purchase and a xerox or record of your check, 
so that if your order is lost, you can inquire with 
polite and detailed specifics. Include your full 
address and zip code every time you write. 
9. Be gentle! Don’t write to keep your mailbox 
full. Some businesses listed in the Last Whole 
Earth Catalog got swamped by curiosity mail and 
had to shut down. Write for information on the 
tools you think you’ll use. 
/f you write for free 
information, send a stamped self-addressed 
envelope or stamps to cover the return postage. 
When complaining about poor service, be aware 
that the person handling your complaint is almost 
never the same person who /oused up your order, 
so wrath doesn’t help. 
70. Don’t order from excerpts from catalogs that 
we review. When we are reviewing a catalog we 
often print excerpts from it. The prices in those 
excerpts are frequently out of date even as we 
print them. Unreasonable behavior around such 
orders has led several large firms we reviewed in 
the Last Whole Earth Catalog to refuse to 
participate in this one. Request a current catalog 
from suppliers before ordering. 
Information Currency 
This first edition of The Next Whole Earth 
Catalog was put together April — September, 
1980. All price and access information was 
exhaustively checked. 
It will decay at the 
usual rate until next edition. 
The same goes 
for item evaluations. 
WHOLE EARTH 
HOUSEHOLD 
STORE 
Founded along with the original Whole Earth 
Catalog in 1968, in Menlo Park, California, it was 
then “The Whole Earth Truck Store.“ Now taken 
over and run by the San Francisco Zen Center, it 
has the new name and a splendid new location in 
the “arts park” of Fort Mason in San Francisco 
(see map, p. 594). 
Wherever you see the phrase 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
under an item, that means you can mail order 
it from 
Whole Earth Household Store 
Fort Mason Center, Bldg. D 
San Francisco, CA 94123 
probably at the price indicated (allow for inflation). 
With each whole order add $2 for shipping and 
handling — same $2 whether youre getting 1 book 
or 20 (except for foreign orders). 
The service is here strictly as a convenience. 
You 
can always get items from the original suppliers. 
With the Household Store you can group your 
orders, and you may well get faster and better 
service (we‘// see). 
Almost certainly the Household 
Store will have books your local bookstore never 
stocks. The Next Whole Earth Catalog has no 
more financial relation with the Household Store 
than with any other supplier — though Bookstore 
Charlie does keep us supplied with pastries from 
the Zen Center bakery, and we probably will 
share mailing list information. 
(Neither of us 
sells our lists.) 
An order form and envelope insert (blue) for the 
Whole Earth Household Store may be found in 
the back of the Catalog. 
There is also more 
ordering information on p. 594. 
COEVOLUTION 
“A regular periodical with Whole Earth Catalog 
type information by the same people? Great! 
How often does CoEvolution Quarterly come 
out? Oh. Heh heh.” 
Right, every three months, “quarterly,” we do 
another 144-page issue, devoid of ads, full of 
review-and-access, articles, cartoons (R. Crumb 
and Dan O’Neil!), and whatever else we find 
remarkable. 
/s there a unifying theme? No. | 
guess that’s the unifying theme. 
Over one third of what you see in this. Next Whole 
Earth Catalog first appeared in some form in 
CoEvolution. 
Circulation at present is about 
40,000. 
If you want to make it about 40,007, 
here’s how. 
CoEvolution Quarterly 
Stewart Brand, Editor 
$14 /year (4 issues) from: 
CoEvolution Quarterly 
Box 428 
Sausalito, CA 94966. 
There is an order form 
(ivory) for CoEvolu- 
tion Quarterly and 
CO maps, books, and 
products in the back 
of the Catalog. 
CONTRIBUTING TO COEVOLUTION 
AND LATER CATALOG EDITIONS 
We pay for everything we print, including 
complaint letters. 
You get $15 apiece for any 
letter, review, or first suggestion of an item that 
is published. Cartoons and photographs get $25 
and up. Articles get $150 to $300, depending on 
importance, illustrations, clarity, and ease of 
handling (length doesn’t count particularly). 
We’re told by our famous contributors that they 
often prefer writing for CoEvolution because their 
material is handled with more respect by us than 
other magazines. 
The un-famous contributors 
say that it’s easier for an unknown to get into 
print with CQ than elsewhere. 
/t may be that our 
lack of advertising or of foundation backing makes 
us more attentive to our contributors, on whom 
our existence depends. 
The evaluations in this Catalog are in some cases 
no doubt inadequate. 
In any case they will date 
at the usual rate. When you’re sure that something 
you know is better than what we’ve run, have at us, 
so that the next Next Catalog may be more com- 
prehensively accurate in pointing at excellence. 
Our standard advice for writing a review goes 
like this. Give the information you would like 
to get. 
This should include what the item is good 
for, how it compares with others, and some clue 
of how competent you are to judge. Avoid 
comments like “This is a good book.” Prove it. 
Do not rave about an item which is merely good or. 
the best of abad/ot. Also don’t waste time picking 
nits with the author unless the matter is something 
the reader has to know about. 
Write as you would 
in a letter to some specific person you respect and 
like. Be succinct. 
Your function is to introduce 
item and reader to each other and get out of.the 
way. Savvy readers will make most of their judg- 
ments on samples from the item — quotes, illus- 
trations, etc. Select good ones — bits you didn’t 
know before, bits that contain the item’s essence, 
bits that pass on a whole useable idea. Study some 
reviews and excerptings in this Catalog. Do better. 
Suppliers are invited to suggest their own goods. 
Samples or review copies are welcomed; response 
not predictable. 
We accept no payment for a 
listing and offer none. 
We owe accurate informa- 
tion exchange to suppliers, period. 
Write to 
CoEvolution Quarterly 
Box 428 
Sausalito, CA 94966 
