On Death and Dying 
On Death and Dying establishes a psychological fact that 
most people close to a dying person already know, even if 
they can’t admit it: one tends to turn away. Even from 
husbands, even from wives, even from one’s own children. 
Dying people are casualties of life. Their dying, especially 
if itis a long, drawn-out affair, is a reminder of how vul- 
nerable we all are, and that’s something most people want 
to forget. 
This is a powerful book, because it forces the reader into 
the point of view of someone dying. Suddenly you’re on 
the other side of that glass between the living and the 
dying, and it’s not comfortable. But, as Elisabeth Kubler- 
Ross points out, the point is not always to “‘comfort” the 
healthy. 
That tendency is a major cause of the intense 
psychic suffering dying people must endure, in addition 
to the physical failures that are killing them. 
This book 
speaks for the dying in a way they are unable to speak 
for themselves. 
It’s disturbing; but then so is all 
education. 
I’d say this book is indispensable for all 
people who are living in the presence of someone else’s 
gradual death. 
—Gurney Norman 
What Rachel Carson’s Silent Spring did for pesticides, this 
book did for the subject of death. 
Unlike Carson’s book, 
it hasn’t dated a line, although the author maybe has. 
On Death and Dying 
Elisabeth Kubler- 
Ross, M.D. 
1969; 260 pp. 
$2 45 postpaid from: 
Macmillan Publishing Co. 
Order Department 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
| remember as a child the death of a farmer. 
He fell from 
a tree and was not expected to live. He asked simply to 
die at home, a wish that was granted without questioning. 
He called his daughters into the bedroom and spoke with 
each one of them alone for a few minutes. 
He arranged 
his affairs quietly, though he was in great pain, and dis- 
tributed his belongings and his land, none of which was to 
be split until his wife should follow him in death. He also 
asked each of his children to share in the work, duties, 
and tasks that he had carried on until the time of the 
accident. 
He asked his friends to visit him once more, to 
bid good-bye to them. Although | was a small child at 
the time, he did not exclude me or my siblings. We were 
allowed to share in the preparations of the family just 
as we were permitted to grieve with them until he died. 
When he did die, he was left at home, in his own beloved 
home which he had built, and among his friends and 
neighbors who went to take a last look at him where he 
lay in the midst of flowers in the place he had lived in 
and loved so much. 
He was quite aware that his days were numbered, and his 
greatest wish was to be moved into different positions (he 
was paralyzed to his neck). He begged the nurse never to 
put the siderails up as it reminded him of being in a casket. 
The nurse, who was very hostile to this patient, agreed 
that she would leave them down at all times. This private 
duty nurse was very angry when she was disturbed in her 
reading, and she knew that he would keep quiet as long 
as she fulfilled this wish. 
Everybody expected her to die soon, but day after day 
she remained in an unchanged condition. 
Her daughter 
was torn between sending her to a nursing home or keep- 
ing her in the hospital, where she apparently wanted to 
stay. Her son-in-law was angry at her for having used up 
their life savings and had innumerable arguments with his 
wife, who felt too guilty to take her out of the hospital. 
When | visited the old woman she looked frightened and 
weary. 
| asked her simply what she was so afraid of. She 
looked at me and finally expressed what she had been 
unable to communicate before, because she herself realized 
how unrealistic her fears were. She was afraid of “’being 
eaten up alive by the worms.”” While | was catching my 
breath and tried to understand the real meaning of this 
statement, her daughter blurted out, “If that’s what's 
keeping you from dying, we can burn you,” by which she 
naturally meant that a cremation would prevent her from 
having any contact with earthworms. 
All her suppressed 
anger was in this statement. 
e 
First Stage: Denial and Isolation 
Second Stage: Anger 
Third Stage: Bargaining 
Fourth Stage: Depression 
Fifth Stage: Acceptance 
The Wheel of Death 
Sentimentalizing death is a disservice. 
This book by the 
author of Three Pillars of Zen assembles sundry anecdotes 
and quotes primarily from the Buddhist tradition, which 
treats death as a lesson. 
—SB 
The Wheel of Death 
(A Collection of Writings 
from Zen Buddhist and 
Other Sources on Death, 
Rebirth, Dying) 
Philip Kapleau, Editor 
1971, 110 pp. 
$3.50 postpaid from: 
Harper and Row 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
It cannot be stressed too often that the funeral rites are 
for the benefit of the deceased himself, and that the 
family must comply with his expressed wishes as to who 
shall perform them, and how. Similarly, his instructions 
for the disposition of his own body and the performance 
of subsequent rites must not be ignored. 
e 
Socrates: 
To fear death, gentlemen, is nothing other than to think 
oneself wise when one is not; for it is to think one knows 
what one does not know. No man knows whether death 
may not even turn out to be the greatest of blessings for 
a human being; and yet people fear it as if they knew for 
certain that it is the greatest of evils. 
e 
Riding this wooden upside-down horse, 
I'm about to gallop through the void. 
Would you seek to trace me? 
Ha! Try catching the tempest in a net. 
—Death verse of Master Kukoku 
Life After Life 
Truth is qualitative but proving something requires 
numbers. 
The author has investigated the experience 
of over 100 people who have clinically died and then 
recovered. 
They all had a similar experience, and none 
had further fears of death. 
That may be sufficient proof 
for you to relax now about dying. Or you can wait 
for the truth. 
—SB 
Life After Life 
(The Investigation of a 
Phenomenon — Survival 
of Bodily Death) 
Raymond A. Moody, Jr. 
1975, 187 pp. 
$2.50 postpaid from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, |L 60016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
What is perhaps the most incredible common element in 
the accounts | have studied, and is certainly the element 
which has the most profound effect upon the individual, 
is the encounter with a very bright light. Typically, at 
its first appearance this light is dim, but it rapidly gets 
brighter until it reaches an unearthly brilliance. 
Yet, even 
though this light (usually said to be white or “clear’’) is 
of an indescribable brilliance, many make the specific 
point that it does not in any way hurt their eyes, or 
dazzle them, or keep them from seeing other things 
around them (perhaps because at this point they don’t 
have physical ‘‘eyes”’ to be dazzled). 
Despite the light’s unusual manifestation, however, not 
one person has expressed any doubt whatsoever that it 
was a being, a being of light. Not only that, it is a 
personal being. 
It has a very definite personality. The 
love and warmth which emanate from this being to the 
dying person are utterly beyond words, and he feels com- 
pletely surrounded by it and taken up in it, completely 
at ease and accepted in the presence of this being. He 
senses an irresistible magnetic attraction to this light. He 
is ineluctably drawn to it. 
e 
The reason why death is no longer frightening, as all of 
these excerpts express, is that after his experience a 
person no longer entertains any doubts about his survival 
of bodily death. 
It is no longer merely an abstract possi- 
bility to him, but a fact of his experience. 
e 
Many persons report being out of their bodies for 
extended periods and witnessing many events in the 
physical world during the interlude. Can any of these 
reports be checked out with other witnesses who were 
known to be present, or with later confirming events, and 
thus be corroborated? 
In quite a few instances, the somewhat surprising answer 
to this question is ‘‘yes.’’ Furthermore, the description of 
events witnessed while out of the body tend to check 
out fairly well. Several doctors have told me, for 
example, that they are utterly baffled about how patients 
with no medical knowledge could describe in such detail 
and so correctly the procedure used in resuscitation 
attempts, even though these events took place while the 
doctors knew the patients involved to be ‘’dead.”” 
e 
| know a few cases in which a suicide attempt was the 
cause of the apparent ‘death.’ These experiences were 
uniformly characterized as being unpleasant. 
As one woman said, “‘If you leave here a tormented soul, 
you will be a tormented soul over there too.’ 
In short, 
they report that the conflicts they had attempted suicide 
to escape were still present when they died, but with 
added complications. 
In their disembodied state they 
were unable to do anything about their problems, and 
they also had to view the unfortunate consequences 
which resulted from their acts. 
LS 
Busy dying 
So far I’ve been told that my time on this planet as a 
conscious being was; 
not important because I’m going to die anyway 
very important because soon enough I'll be dead 
serious business because I'l] be born again 
no big deal because there is no death 
ho hum 
Max Krimmel 
Boulder, Colorado 
Vital Signs 
Taking a journalist’s approach, John Langone reports 
what's going on around deathbeds, very accurately, often 
shockingly. 
This book lands us right here, where we are, 
rather than up there ahead, where we want to go. Thanks. 
—Diana Barich 
Vital Signs 
a 
(The Way We 
Die in America) 
John Langone 
1974; 363 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
Little, Brown and 
Company, Inc. 
200 West Street 
Waltham, MA 02154 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
R 
“All | want to know is that there is someone to hold my 
hand when | need it. Death may be routine to you, but 
it is new to me.” 
—A dying woman to her doctor 
e 
She was just crying and crying. She said, what am | going 
to do, I’m dying. | have little children. What am | going 
to tell them? And she said, I’m really sorry to be crying. 
And | said, Oh, it’s all right, it’s all right. You can cry, 
and I'm sitting there, of course, really trying not to cry 
myself. And she said, when my husband's here | can’t 
cry, | have to pretend that I’m not worried when he’s 
here, because he doesn’t think that | am dying. Well, | 
knew her husband knew, but he apparently had been 
denying it all the time, and she had been going along with 
him, and they had to play this elaborate little game, 
pretending it wasn’t happening. At this point — she had 
been crying for five or ten minutes — and one of the 
nurses came in and said, oh what a baby, cut out that 
crying. What's the matter with you? Cheer up, buck up. 
What if your husband could see you like this? And there 
it went, you know, sort of like all the freedom and 
honesty that she had been allowed for those few minutes 
completely evaporated and she had to put on her little 
game again. 
