16 
Stream of moon ore 
payloads leaving 
lunar mass driver 
for collection and 
Possession in space. 
Thus the Space 
Colonies are built 
largely with extra- 
terrestrial material. 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
SPACE COLONIES 
The High Frontier 
The one book you must have if you're interested in Space 
Colonies is this one by Gerard O’Neill. 
His scheme has 
aroused so much rabid support and rabid opposition that 
O'Neill's gentle voice and responsible perspective has a 
critical balancing influence. 
| have seen environmentalists 
who at first blush loathed the idea of Space Colonies 
come away from O’Neill’s book impressed and interested. 
Having one individual most strongly identified with a 
grand vision such as Space Colonies is the healthiest way 
to proceed, |‘m convinced, and I’m glad Gerry has the 
job on this one. 
—SB 
The High Frontier 
(Human Colonies 
in Space) 
Gerard O'Neill 
1976; 288 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid from: 
Bantam Books, Inc. 
414 E. Golf Road 
Des Plaines, 1L 60016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
When | have considered the effect of 
our discovering, one day, signals from 
amore advanced civilization (note 
that it would be, with almost 100 
percent certainty, milennia more 
advanced than we are because of our 
own position at the threshold of 
communication) it has seemed to me 
overwhelmingly probable that the 
first effect of the discovery, as soon 
as the excitement and the novelty 
have worn off a little, would be to 
kill our science and our art. What 
purpose to study the natural 
sciences? We already know that they 
are universal, so if a civilization 
now radioing to us is 50,000 years 
ahead in its knowledge, why continue 
to study and search for scientific 
truth on our own? Gone then the 
possibility of new discovery, or 
surprise, and above all of pride and 
accomplishment; it seems to me 
horribly likely that as scientists we 
would become simply television 
addicts, contributing nothing of 
our own pain and work and effort 
to new discovery. 
In the arts, music and literature, the 
case may be somewhat more unclear; 
yet on earth the almost invariable 
consequence of contact between a 
primitive civilization and one more 
advanced is the stagnation of the 
arts in the former. Only in the form 
of a “tourist trade” does art survive, 
in most cases. 
If this sequence of effects is of more 
than local significance, as | think it 
is, it will be quite obvious to any 
civilization more advanced than our 
own. 
| would then add one more 
assumption: that the same charac- 
teristics which render a civilization 
immune to intellectual decay and 
stagnation, if there be such charac- 
teristics, are accompanied by a 
repugnance to inflict harm on others, 
in particular to other ‘emerging’ 
civilizations more primitive than 
its own. 
In that case, “They may be 
out there, but they’re kind enough 
to keep quiet.” 
| confess to a humanitarian bias in 
the design that | suggest. Techno- 
logical revolution is a powerful force 
for social change, and in choosing 
among several technical possibilities 
| have been biased strongly toward 
those which seem to offer the great- 
est possibilities for enlarging human 
options, and for breaking through 
repressions which might otherwise 
be unbreakable. Yet | offer no Utopia; man changes only 
on a time scale of millennia, and he has always within him 
the capacity for evil as well as for good. Material well- 
being and freedom of choice do not guarantee happiness, 
and for some people choice can be threatening, even 
frightening. Though | acknowledge that my study will be 
of the physical environment, and only indirectly with the 
psychological, | will still try to describe an environment 
which combines with its efficiencies and its practicality 
opportunities for increasing the options, the pleasures, 
and the freedoms of individual human beings. 
| have argued that there is only one way in which we can 
develop truly high-growth-rate industry, able to continue 
the course of its development for a very long time without 
environmental damage: to combine unlimited solar power, 
the virtually unlimited resources of the Moon and the 
asteroid belt, and locations near Earth but not ona 
planetary surface. 
Spaceships of the Mind 
If you’re considering space as a realm of activity for your- 
self or Ourself, there’s no point in thinking small. 
The old 
professional British explainer Calder does an admirable 
job of mustering all the relevant thought and experience 
that bears on the idea of space colonies and Beyond. —SB 
Spaceships 
of the Mind 
Nigel Calder 
1978; 144 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid from: 
Penguin Books 
299 Murray Hill Pkwy. 
East Rutherford, NJ 07073 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
To colonise space will be to take out insurance policies. 
With humans living in an immense variety of widely separ- 
ated environments, whatever catastrophe might occur in 
one place, it surely will not occur in others. 
If the human 
species accepts the challenge, it has the opportunity to 
become perhaps immortal, for as long as the universe 
A settlement built as a large spinning torus or doughnut 
(NASA painting) offers 
a compromise between the wish 
for spaciousness and the wish to keep something hidden 
beyond the horizon — even if the horizon curves upwards. 
lasts. Smith found it hard to imagine anything other 
than an encounter with another civilisation that would 
stop the expansion of life filling the Galaxy. 
The chief factor determining the rate of human expansion 
through the Galaxy will probably not be the speed of the 
ships, but the breath-catching period between the coloni- 
sation of one star and the departure for the next. Tom 
Kuiper and Mark Morris of Caltech assumed a ‘regenera- 
tion time’ of 500 years after each step of ten light-years, 
and a travel speed of ten per cent of the speed of light, 
to arrive at a figure of five million years for a techno- 
logical civilisation to populate the Galaxy. 
Compare the shoeshine man and the forester: the first 
works for a minute or two and gets prompt payment for 
a gleam that will not survive the next shower; the 
forester, on the other hand, plants trees that take so long 
to grow that he cannot live to harvest them. With the 
industrial revolution, forestry went out of fashion. Most 
of us, in the countries where it happened, began to live 
like shoeshine men. 
‘Better fifty years of Europe than a 
cycle of Cathay,’ Tennyson declared. 
But people will 
have to learn patience again, if they are to take over the 
Solar System and then the Milky Way. 
It will mean 
planting many trees, both literally and figuratively. 
LL 
Space Colonies 
L-5 News 
Like what’s here, only more. Much more Gerard O'Neill, 
Rusty Schweickart, and spacy details. Much more discus- 
sion, including penetrating criticism of the whole idea by 
E.F. Schumacher, Ken Kesey, William Irwin Thompson, 
Garrett Hardin, Gary Snyder, and others. Wendell Berry 
says, “Humans are destructive in proportion to their 
supposition of abundance; if they are faced with infinite 
abundance, then they will become infinitely destructive.” 
—SB 
Space Colonies 
Stewart Brand, Editor 
1977, 160 pp. 
$5 postpaid from: 
CoEvolution Quarterly 
Box 428 
Sausalito, CA 94965 
e 
One can quite possibly turn a profit in supplying the 
surface of the earth with steel from the asteroid belt. 
The asteroids contain steel in chunks ranging from 100 
kilometers in diameter down to dust. 
It is, in its native 
form, a strong, tough, ductile, and corrosion resistant 
material, and for engineering purposes, it is superior to 
most of the steel produced on the earth, because it 
contains about 5% nickel. 
—Eric Drexler 
Much the best source of news on Space Colony matters, 
the L-5 News is an enthusiast publication of admirable 
vigor, and it’s no fanzine. 
The editors and contributors 
are in the thick of Space Colony design and speculation. 
They plan to live in Space. 
—SB 
L-5 News 
Gerald B. Driggers, 
Editor 
$20 /year (12 issues) 
postpaid from: 
L-5 Society 
Membership Services 
1620 N. Park Avenue 
Tucson, AZ 85719 
e 
Space Tourism: As long as launch-to-orbit costs remain 
on the order of $150 to $300 per pound, there will be 
few tourists to orbit. For instance, a cost of $150 per 
pound gives a prohibitive per person cost of $26,250 
(assuming 175 pounds per person). However, when 
cost of delivery to orbit reaches $25 per pound, that will 
mark the beginning of volume traffic. This would place 
the average ticket price at roughly $4000 — comparable 
to a present-day world cruise. This could occur between 
1990 and 2000. 
