COMMUNITY 
RURAL EMERGENCY 
Continued from p. 311 
FIRE AND MEDICAL EQUIPMENT SUPPLIERS 
Western Fire Equipment Company 
Emergency equipment is relatively low volume, special- 
ized, and high quality. 
That equals E-X-P-E-N-S-I-V-E. 
Building an all-volunteer (no tax base) fire/rescue capa- 
bility from scratch requires a lot of scrounging, making 
do, improvising, and shopping around — as well as a 
carefully thought out list of priorities. Just like low- 
budget homesteading, in fact. Here’s what I’ve 
learned in seven years. 
FIRE EQUIPMENT 
Every rural building should have a minimum of at least 
one dry chemical 2A 40BC extinguisher near an exit; and 
each vehicle should have a minimum of one 1A 10BC 
extinguisher aboard. Smaller sizes than this, which are 
the usual case, often ain’t enough folks — trust me. 
Kidde, General, and Sears all make good refillable ones 
(don’t get the one-shots), shop for sales OR check the 
Jocal outfit(s) that refill extinguishers — they may have 
used, re-conditioned extinguishers for sale, which are 
perfectly OK. Garden hose long enough to reach around 
your buildings and up on the roof, equipped with a pistol- 
grip type stream Apray garden nozzle, is also a wise idea, 
especially if you are more than 5 minutes away from 
your nearest fire truck. 
Every homestead should also have a 5 gallon back pump. 
The first thing that usually goes in a wildfire is the above 
ground plastic water line to your place. 
The collapsible 
rubber backpumps require too much maintenance for 
most homesteaders and are usually empty when you need 
them the most. Sioux, General, Chapin, and Parco all 
make good metal ones. 
I’ve used them all, and the best 
cost-benefit for the occasional user (or more — our fire 
truck has two of them) is the PARCO Model 400 (gal- 
vanized tank) with combination nozzle. 
This model has 
a metal “holster’’ to hold the pump vertically, which 
simplifies carrying the thing in your vehicle or through 
the brush. 
Get together with some neighbors and order 
six or more (order up some extra gaskets and nozzles at 
the same time) for BIG savings from PARCO. 
PARCO Back Pack 
Information 
Fire Pump 
free from: 
$60 - $80 
PARCO 
Blue Mountain 
Products, Inc. 
P.O. Box 250 
New Hartford, NY 13413 
PARCO Model 400 
5 gallon back pump 
/f you are involved in any aspect of wildfire control, no 
matter what the ecosystem, you have GOT to have this 
catalog/wishbook. Specialized, absolutely trust-your-ass 
top quality gear with hair-raising prices. 
They don’t 
discount to small customers, only big ones (unless you ‘re 
a better con artist than | am). Service to us has been only 
fair, back orders can take forever, billing is confusing — 
and I love ‘em. 
If you can get it anywhere else, do, 
because it will be cheaper. BUT, when you need that 
specialized piece of gear, they ‘ve got it (and you). Their 
slip-in units are the best, and the most expensive. 
Their 
Roadrunner unit has been the mainstay of our little fire 
company for going on four years now — in an ungaraged 
pickup yet — and it has never failed us. Somehow, the 
Price doesn’t seem so steep when you roll up to a vehicle 
that is really cooking and you need stuff to work, without 
fail, right NOW. | have a lot of equipment catalogs which 
! keep (and use) in a reference file. 
I’ve carried the West- 
ern Fire catalog in my 
briefcase for the past three years, 
and I have learned the hard way never to loan it to 
another firefighter — it disappears. 
Western Fire 
free from: 
Western Fire 
Equipment 
Equipment Company 
Catalog 
440 Valley Drive 
Brisbane, CA 94005 
When you take the step to a neighborhood fire crew with 
hand tools, organization and training, a “Uniform” 
is 
useful to distinguish crew members. Nomex turnout gear 
is too expensive unless you get a /ot of action, but head- 
gear is not. Start with matched hard hats of the same 
color, add goggles and nomex earlaps as the need is felt 
(which will be immediately after your first hot fire). 
We standardized on yellow Bullard Utilyte 2000 hard 
hats (about $5) with Beuten goggles (about $4) from 
Bullard, goggle retainers from MSA ($3), and nomex 
earlaps from Western Fire ($9). HiNT: Some (not all) 
safety equipment sales reps are often very sympathetic 
to the struggling new fire organization and will discount 
to you — experience has taught them that community 
emergency organizations grow. Another HINT: OSHA 
requirements on fire gear are requiring that paid depart- 
ments buy new, improved turnout gear — older, unim- 
proved but very usable gear may be obtained if you 
scrounge long and hard enough — find a neighbor 
Firecraft 
Protective 
turnout coats 
and pants are 
constructed 
of new, first 
quality, 
7.5 oz. 
100% Nomex. 
who knows a fireman in the city. We have tried a bunch 
of suppliers over the last few years. 
These are the ones 
we have found the best for us. 
Bullard Safety 
Nice folks, a complete line of personal and industrial 
safety gear. They gave us credit when we were new and 
struggling. | trust my head to their hard hat on fires — 
and that, dear friends, is one hell of a recommendation. 
Bullard Safety 
free from: 
Catalog 
E.D. Bullard 
2680 Bridgeway 
Sausalito, CA 94965 
Mine Safety Appliances Company 
Write the address below for a catalog (tell them your 
interests) and the address of your nearest branch office. 
/ trust my head to their metal hard hat when I’m working 
in the woods — another plug. MSA breathing apparatus 
will be our choice for the fire company if we can ever 
afford it. 
Mine Safety 
$1 from: 
Applian 
MSA 
cheies ces Company 
600 Penn Center Blvd. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15235 
Havis-Shields 
The only outfit I’ve found that offers out-front discounts 
on emergency lights and sirens. 
They have been good to 
us — our next fire truck (now a-buildin’) will probably be 
equipped as much as possible with gear from them. 
Havis-Shields 
free from: 
Catalog 
Havis-Shields Equipment 
Corporation 
P.O. Box 533 
Willow Grove, PA 19090 
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT 
A good rescue/emergency medical capability is within the 
financial grasp of any rural community, |F a trained, 
willing person or persons is into it, because much of the 
gear can be home-made. 
You can also spend a LOT of 
bucks. Some of the medical equipment our community 
uses lives on our fire/rescue vehicle (backboards, splints, 
oxygen, burn kit, and-climbing gear). But the lifesaving 
guts of emergency medicine in a rural area is a trained, 
skilled person with a jump kit. Unless you have lots of 
bucks to blow, avoid the ready-made first aid and trauma 
kits as the plague — they are over priced and have stuff 
you will never need. By putting together your own jump 
kit, you get an education in what you need, and you will 
know where it is when you need it in a hurry. Our jump 
kits are nylon “day packs” that we can carry “over the 
bank” with us on car wrecks. 
You may require a “hard” 
box to take the beating of a kit kicking around in a 
vehicle. 
Locally, the PLANO line of tackle boxes is 
preferred for “hard” trauma kits. Check out their model 
747. 
Try your local fishing outfit stores or Plano Molding 
Company, Plano, I/linois 60545. 
What you put into the kit depends on you, but a basic 
CHEAP start would include: 
Clean towels cut to various sizes and placed in baggies 
A bunch of big safety pins 
Sterile 4 x 4 and 8 x 10 dressings 
Triangular bandages (non-sterile) 
Roller bandages (2” and 4” Klings are nice) 
Penlight 
Space blanket 
Small stuff (bandages, etc.) 
Miscellaneous, various depending on individual, budget, 
and training 
A quart of clean water nearby 
Under $50 and you are in business. 
Cardboard and wood 
wooden splints can be made at home “free.” Three 
spineboards (or two spineboards and 2 shortboards) 16” 
wide can be cut from one 3/4” sheet of plywood. 
Portable oxygen and Oz powered suction units are 
expensive, but used gear can possibly be had for $100 - 
$250. 
The next step is an ambulance, advanced life 
support gear and training, and communication with a 
hospital. 
However, minimum equipment and maximum 
training can be truly life-saving, especially when you are 
along way out. There are many medical supply distribu- 
tors — here are the outfits I’m familiar with. 
W.S. Darley & Co. 
L.N. Curtis & Sons 
From firetrucks to flashlights, Darley has a complete 
line of municipal-type fire gear. Prices are a bit lower 
than most, service to us has been good. Get their catalog 
and look it over. 
W.S. Darley & Co. 
free from: 
Catalog 
W.S. Darley & Company 
2000 Anson Drive 
Melrose Park, |L 60160 
Dyna-Med 
A big, colorful, slick, photo-packed, mouth-watering 
catalog of goodies at top prices. Get this catalog, figure 
out what you need from the pictures and price compari- 
sons between brands, and order from Life Assist. 
Dirty 
trick, but it IS your money. Dyna Med has some special- 
ized goodies that are going to hook you anyway. Good 
service to us. 
Dyna Med 
free from: 
Catalog 
Dyna-Med, Inc. 
11630 Rockfield Court 
Cincinnati, OH 45241 
Build-A-Board 
Features and Benefits: Helps immobilize victims with 
suspected spinal injury and permits extrication of auto 
accident victim in a seated position. Can be used as 
conventional scoop stretcher. The first stretcher designed 
to be built around the victim. 
It’s 
a combination spine 
board and scoop stretcher. Unit aids in minimizing body 
movement when spinal or neck injuries are possible. 
Tubular aluminum construction. Stores compactly. 
Upper section measures 17 x 24-3/4 inches; seat section 
measures 17 x 18-3/4 inches; lower torso section is 
17 x 49 inches. Upper and seat sections coupled is 
17 x 42 x 1% inches. Upper and lower torso sections 
coupled measure 17 x 72% inches. 
Ordering Information: 
Complete with patient restraint 
straps. Available with lower torso section or without. 
A11501—(1) With Lower Torso Section 
$290.75 
A11500—(2) Without Lower Torso Section 
207.40 
A11515—Leg and Waist Strap 
3.85 
—Dyna-Med 
Safety and fire equipment distributors — every metro- 
politan area has one or more outfits that specialize in 
such gear. Goin person. When | told the salesman at 
Curtis about our piteous finances during the order of one 
turnout jacket, he not only discounted the price on the 
coat, but made a couple of long-distance calls to some 
fire chief friends to try to line up some used, surp/us 
turnout gear for us! Thanks, Al. 
L.N. Curtis & Sons 
free from: 
Catalog 
L.N. Curtis & Sons 
4133 Broadway 
Oakland, CA 94611 
Life Assist 
Their “catalog” is a non-fancy price list only — you have 
to know what you need. 
The service is good and the 
prices are the lowest I’ve found on cross-comparisons of 
identical, brand-name gear. My first choice. 
Life Assist 
free from: 
Catalog 
Life Assist, Inc. 
11357 Pyrites No. 5 
Rancho Cordova, CA 
95670 
Rockford Safety Equipment Co. 
Prices mostly in-between Life Assist and Dyna-Med, 
catalog has lots of black and white pictures. Service to 
us on two orders was slow, might be better if you live in 
eastern part of United States. 
Rockford Safety 
free from: 
Equipment Company 
Rockford Safety 
Catalog 
Equipment Company 
P.O. Box 5166 
Rockford, |[L 61125 
There are many, many more suppliers of fire and medical 
equipment than are listed here, but these, in conjunction 
with suppliers listed in the various magazines, will give 
you a good start on an open-ended process of preparing 
yourself, and your community, for any emergency. 
Organize, train, and plan ahead — then hope like hell 
you never need it. @ 
