POLITICS 
RURAL ISSUES 385 
The Nature Conservancy 
Many people (especially on nature tours) ask me what 
group does the most to help preserve the natural beauty 
and diversity of the Earth. Without hesitation | say: 
“If you give money to one conservation group, give it to 
Nature Conservancy.” They have been responsible for 
preserving over one and a half million acres of forests, 
marshes, prairies, mountains, islands, as well as innumer- 
able rare and endangered plants, butterflies, and other 
wildlife. 
They carefully research their financial priorities, 
move with coyote-like wiliness and roadrunner speed in 
real estate transactions, and, for 
my money, manage 
their purchases with the best network of volunteer and 
professional land stewards in the U.S.A. So far they have 
completed 2,200 conservancy projects. 
Your grandchild’s 
view of a prairie falcon in Idaho, Audubon’s Caracara in 
Florida, native prairie in Ohio, or even the rare Massa- 
sauga rattlesnake in‘New York make Nature Conservancy 
my idea of a solid investment. One of the fringe benefits 
is the four-color newsletter. 
—Peter Warshall 
The Nature 
$10 /year (6 issues — 
Conservancy News 
includes membership) 
Sue 
E. Dodge, Editor 
from: 
ae 
Z 
The Nature Conservancy 
1800 North Kent Street 
Arlington, VA 22209 
4 
Wildhorse Island 
Few people associate islands with the State of Montana. 
But the ‘‘Big Sky Country” contains the largest fresh- 
water island in the western U.S. — 2,156-acre Wildhorse 
Island, lying in the west’s biggest freshwater lake, 
Flathead Lake. 
Wildhorse Island contains the only remaining stretch of 
undisturbed shoreline — eight and a half miles long — 
PL 
REE 
w 
Wildhorse Island 
on the lake. 
Its rugged hills, which rise steeply to 1,000 
feet above “lake level,’’ support a herd of 210 Rocky 
Mountain bighorn sheep, one of the largest contained 
populations in the nation. 
In addition, there are active 
bald eagle and osprey nests. Coyotes, black-tailed deer, 
and occasional black bear roam the island. Wildhorse’s 
vegetation is predominantly grassland and forest of 
towering ponderosa pine and Douglas fir. 
A project endorsed by the American Land Trust, Wild- 
horse Island was acquired in late 1977 and will be trans- 
ferred in a series of transactions to the State of Montana 
for management in cooperation with the University 
of Montana. 
—The Nature Conservancy News 
Getting People Together in Rural America 
If city and country are two very different places, then the 
way to go about organizing in rural areas will differ from 
the methods that work in cities. 
The distilled experience 
here is centered around consumer issues like utility rate 
increases, but the concise techniques are equally applicable 
to environmental issues. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Getting People 
Together in 
Rural America 
(A Beginner’s Guide 
to Consumer 
Organizing) 
Barbara Swaczy 
1979; 40 pp. 
$3 postpaid from: 
Northern Rockies 
Action Group 
9 Placer Street 
Helena, MT 59601 
It would be ideal if issues in agricultural areas could wait 
until winter, when farmers and ranchers aren't in the 
fields from sunrise until sunset. 
But year-round there 
is always something a person could be doing besides 
joining a group. 
If you have a choice, January is a good 
time to start an organization in cattle or grain country. 
Otherwise, wet weather will tend to keep farmers in 
their homes. And there can be one or two breaks in 
the haying each summer. 
Farmers can come to evening meetings in mid-summer if 
it’s important enough. But schedule meetings for 8:30 
p.m. and get your business done in one-half hour, 
because the people are tired. 
One of the classic techniques of farm organizing was that 
employed by the Non-Partisan League in North Dakota 
in the 1910s. The Organizers hired able farm hands who 
went with them into the fields. The hand would replace 
the farmer on his tractor while the organizer talked to 
the farmer about the League. 
SS 
a 
RS 
Indian Nationhood by Jerry Mander 
Three publications by Native Americans — one short 
philosophical /historical tract, and two newspapers — 
brilliantly express a newly revived “traditional” radicalism 
among Indian people. After a very long period during 
which the U.S. government succeeded 
in installing 
colonial-type puppet governments on Indian reservations 
— committed to economic development policies along 
American corporate lines — the voices of traditional 
Indian leadership have begun to emerge. A coalition, of 
sorts, has been formed between tribal elders — people 
who have retained the old ways, language and values — 
and young activists who have tried out the joys of 
Western techno-life and found it wanting and suicidal.. 
This coalition is in opposition to the tribal leaders, 
installed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, who tend to 
form the “progressive” block of Indians seeking to sell 
land for money, make leases for coal and uranium mines, 
follow American models of health, education and organi- 
zation, and go for the American dream. 
The new opposition has re-introduced the term “sover- 
eignty,” by which some of them mean economic self- 
sufficiency along traditional subsistence lines but many of 
them literally mean separate nationhood. 
They voice 
the position that this nationhood was never lost. 
Treaties 
confirm it, and a new young breed of Indian lawyers are 
achieving some success in arguing the cases. More than 
22 Indian nations are taking the legal argument that the 
land was never Jost in any legal sense, and they are refus- 
ing all monetary settlements. 
The hoped-for resu/t of this 
activity will be the re-recognition of Indian treaties, the 
re-establishment of their land base, with all rights 
attached thereto, the re-installation of traditional Indian 
governments, and the rejection of American development 
corporations — oil companies, uranium companies, agri- 
businesses which have insinuated themselves into effective 
control of Indian land and resources. 
The new mottos 
are “Land, not money, sovereignty not integration, 
Indian nations, not Americans.” 
A Basic Call to Consciousness is a bound reprint of the 
position paper of the Six Nations (I/roquois Confederacy) 
presented at the UN Conference on Indigenous People, 
Geneva, 1977. Largely the work of John Mohawk (who 
also edits Akwesasne Notes) jn co/laboration with the 
elders of the Six Nations, this book is a clearly stated 
analysis of the inherent values of Western culture which 
have led to the destruction of Indian people in the past, 
and continue to do so in the present. Many such analyses 
have been written by whites, but this one by a brilliant 
young Indian contains perspectives and a passion that 
have been absent before. An interesting distinction, for 
example, is that this book celebrates Indian political 
forms as being the most “advanced” in the world and the 
most relevant to today’s problems. 
Reference is also 
made to the fact that the /roquois Constitution was 
bastardized to become the basis for the American 
constitution and also Marxism, a fact that too few 
scholars have noted. 
Akwesasne Notes is the /argest and most thorough Indian 
newspaper, carrying current events and perspectives con- 
cerning Indian people. 
These days, the paper is especially 
emphasizing the crunch between technological society’s 
need for scarce resources and the fact that many of them 
are on Indian land. 65% of the so-called uranium reserves, 
and a comparable percentage of coal, natural gas, oil, and 
precious minerals are on Indian land, which is why so 
much attention is being paid by the U.S. government to 
who runs the reservations. 
The newspaper goes into great 
depth on these matters and is supportive of the resistance 
to U.S. corporate efforts to get the Indians to cooperate. 
Native Self-Sufficiency is published six times per year by 
the Tribal Sovereignty Project, an organization which 
gives material and educational support to a variety of 
/ndian groups and projects which have in common a 
desire for separation from America politically, culturally, 
and spiritually. 
It is devoted to the “quiet building of the 
political and economic infrastructures of our communities 
that would make sovereignty a practicality.” The paper 
concentrates on (1) land and natural resource issues, (2) 
self-sufficiency and alternative technology and economics, 
(3) the re-establishment of traditional Indian governments. 
(See more on Native American culture, pp. 44 - 45 
and 452.) 
Popelel 
4:16. 
se 
C 
er 
rere 
6) 
wi 
ewig 
re 
ee 
10 
ie 
The Trust for Public Land 
Institute for Community Economics, Inc. 
More and more, people are being excluded from land 
because of its cost and concentration among relatively 
few owners. 
Short of a revolution, one solution to this 
problem that works is the land trust. 
There are two types 
of land trusts, and while structurally they look much the 
same — non-profit corporations with by-laws and boards 
of directors — they serve different purposes. 
The first is 
the conservation /and trust, designed primarily to protect 
a land resource. 
The best known example is the Nature 
Conservancy, reviewed above. Another is the Trust for 
Public Land. 
It was founded in 1973 and works in 
urban neighborhoods to convert vacant land into 
community-built parks and gardens. 
For residents in 
rural and suburban communities, it has developed special 
training materials directed at building local land trusts 
which can acquire and manage lands with open space or 
resource value to the surrounding community. 
Recently, 
The Trust for Public Land has begun working with 
Western farming communities who have elected to form 
land trusts as a way to ease the speculative pressure on 
productive lands and restrict the land’s use to agricu/ture. 
The second type of organization is the community land 
trust. Access to land by people is the major goal, either 
to live on or work on. 
There are fewer of this kind of 
Jand trust, and the Institute for Community Economics 
serves as a clearinghouse. 
They know where groups 
already exist, and can help you start your own. Many 
Jand trusts are small and not well publicized — there may 
already be one formed near you. 
—Richard Nilsen 
The Trust for 
Community 
Public Land 
Land Trusts 
Information 
Information 
$1 from: 
free from: 
The Trust for 
Institute for Community 
Public Land 
Economics, Inc. 
82 Second Street 
San Francisco, CA 
94105 
120 Boylston Street 
Boston, MA 02116 
—Akwesasne 
A Basic Call to 
Consciousness 
(The Hau de no sau 
nee Address to the 
Western World) 
1978; 55 pp. 
$1 .25 postpaid 
Akwesasne Notes 
$5 = $10 /year 
(optional contribution 
— 5 issues) 
both from: 
Akwasasne Notes 
Mohawk Nation 
Via Rooseveltown 
New York, 13683 
Native Self-Sufficiency 
Paula Hammett, Editor 
$6 /year (6 issues) 
from: 
Tribal Sovereignty 
Program 
P.O. Box 10 
Forestville, CA 95436 
ed 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
sy 
Nac 
&) 
Rob said that in New York now dealers are taking 
the seeds out of marijuana so people won’t grow 
their own. Izzy said that was like a lot of artists 
in New York now won't invite anybody to their 
studios for fear they’ll 
steal their ideas. 
a 
