- 
« 
a 
ho) 
aft 
| 
) LE | 
S 
q 
“Reames 
4 
oO 
found him eating lunch in my classroom. He always 
ate lunch alone. 
Well the Third Wave gave Robert a place in school. 
At least he was equal to everyone. He could do 
something. Take part. Be meaningful. That’s just 
what Robert did. Late Wednesday afternoon | 
found Robert following me and asked what in the 
world was he doing. He smiled (I don’t think I 
had ever seen him smile) and announced, “Mr. 
Jones, I’m your bodyguard. I’m afraid something 
will happen to you. Can I do it Mr. Jones, please?” 
Given that assurance and smile I couldn’t say no. I 
had a bodyguard. All day long he opened and closed 
doors for me. He walked always on my right. Just 
smiling and saluting other class members. He 
followed me everywhere. In the faculty room 
(closed to students) he stood at silent attention 
while I gulped some coffee. When accosted by an 
English teacher for being a student in the “‘teacher’s 
room” he just smiled and informed the faculty mem- 
ber that he wasn’t a student, he was a bodyguard. 
STRENGTH THROUGH PRIDE 
— 
N THURSDAY I began to 
draw the experiment to a conclusion. 
I was ex- 
hausted and worried. Many students were over the 
line. The Third Wave had become the center of their 
existence. I was in pretty bad shape myself. I was 
now acting instinctively as a dictator. Oh I was bene- 
volent. And I daily argued to myself on the benefits 
of the learning experience. By this the fourth day of 
the experiment I was beginning to lose my own 
arguments. As I spent more time playing the role I 
had less time to remember its rational origins and 
purpose. I found myself sliding into the role even 
when it wasn’t necessary. I wondered if this doesn’t 
happen to lots of people. We get or take an ascribed 
role and then bend our life to fit the image. Soon the 
image is the only identity people will accept. So we 
became the image. The trouble with the situation 
and role I had created was that I didn’t have time to 
think where it was leading. Events were crushing 
in around me. I worried for students doing things 
they would regret. I worried for myself. 
Once again I faced the thoughts of closing the 
i \ 
\ 
j 
{ 
= 
= 
experiment or letting it go its own course. Both 
options were unworkable. If I stopped the experi- 
ment a great number of students would be left 
hanging. They had committed themselves in front 
of their peers to radical behavior. Emotionally and 
psychologically they had exposed themselves. If I 
suddenly jolted them back to classroom reality I 
would face a confused student body for the remainder 
of the year. It would be too painful and demeaning 
for Robert and the students like him to be twisted 
back into their seat and told it’s just a game. They 
would take ridicule from the brighter students that 
participated in a measured and cautious way. I 
couldn’t let the Roberts lose again. 
The other option of just letting the experiment run 
its course was also out of the question. Things were 
already out of control. Wednesday evening someone 
had broken into the room and ransacked the place. 
I later found out it was the father of one of the 
students. He was a retired Air Force colonel who 
had spent time in a German prisoner of war camp. 
Upon hearing of our activity he simply lost control. 
Late in the evening he broke into the room and tore 
it apart. I found him that morning propped up 
against the classroom door. He told me about his 
friends that had been killed in Germany. He was 
holding on to me and shaking. In staccato words 
he pleaded that I understand and help him get 
home. I called his wife and with the help of a 
neighbor walked him home. We spent hours later 
talking about what he felt and did, but from that 
moment on Thursday morning I was more concerned 
with what might be happening at school. 
I was increasingly worried about how our activity 
was affecting the faculty and other students in the 
school. The Third Wave was disrupting normal 
learning. Students were cutting class to participate, 
and the school counselors were beginning to question 
every student in the class. The real gestapo in the 
school was at work. Faced with The Experiment 
exploding in one hundred directions, I decided to try 
an old basketball strategy. When you're playing 
against all the odds the best action to take is to 
try the unexpected. That’s what I did. 
By Thursday the class had swollen in size to over 
eighty students. The only thing that allowed them 
all to fit was the enforced discipline of sitting in 
silence at attention. A strange calm is in effect when 
a room full of people sit in quiet observation and 
anticipation. It helped me approach them ina 
deliberate way. I talked about pride. “Pride is more 
than banners or salutes. Pride is something no one 
can take from you. Pride is knowing you are the 
best ... 
It can’t be destroyed...” 
In the midst of this crescendo I abruptly changed and 
lowered my voice to announce the real reason for the 
Third Wave. In slow methodic tone I explained what 
was behind the Third Wave. “The Third Wave isn’t 
just an experiment or classroom activity. It’s far 
more important than that. The Third Wave is a 
nationwide program to find students who are willing 
to fight for political change in this country. That’s 
tight. This activity we have been doing has been 
practice for the real thing. Across the country teach- 
ers like myself have been recruiting and training a 
youth brigade capable of showing the nation a better 
society through discipline, community, pride, and 
action. If we can change the way that school is run, 
we can change the way that factories, stores, uni- 
versities and all the other institutions are run. You 
are a selected group of young people chosen to help 
in this cause. If you will stand up and display what 
you have learned in the past four days . 
. 
. we can 
change the destiny of this nation. We can bring it 
a new sense of order, community, pride and action. 
Anew purpose. Everything rests with you and 
your willingness to take a stand.” 
To give validity to the seriousness of my words I 
turned to the three women in the class whom I 
knew had questioned the Third Wave. I demanded 
that they leave the room. I explained why I acted 
and then assigned four guards to escort the women 
to the library and to prevent them from entering the 
class on Friday. Then in dramatic style I informed 
the class of a special noon rally to take place on 
Friday. This would be a rally for Third Wave 
members only. 
It was a wild gamble. I just kept talking, afraid that if 
I stopped someone would laugh or ask a question, and 
the grand scheme would dissolve in chaos. I explained 
how at noon on Friday a national candidate for Presi- 
dent would announce the formation of a Third Wave 
Youth Program. Simultaneous to this announcement 
over 1000 youth groups from every part of the 
country would stand up and display their support for 
such a movement. I confided that they were the stu- 
dents selected to represent their area. I also ques- 
tioned if they could make a good showing, because 
the press had been invited to record the event. No 
one laughed. There was not a murmur of resistance. 
Quite the contrary. A fever pitch of excitement 
swelled across the room. “We can do it!” “Should 
we wear white shirts?” ‘Can we bring friends?” 
“Mr. Jones, have you seen this advertisement in 
Time magazine?” 
The clincher came quite by accident. It was a full 
page color advertisement in the current issue of Time 
for some lumber products. The advertiser identified 
his product as the Third Wave. The advertisement 
proclaimed in big red, white and blue letters, “The 
Third Wave is coming.” “Is this part of the campaign, 
Mr. Jones? Is it a code or something?” “Yes. Now 
listen carefully. It’s all set for tomorrow. Be in the 
small auditorium ten minutes before 12:00. Be seated. 
Be ready to display the discipline, community, and 
pride you have learned. Don’t talk to anyone about 
this. This rally is for members only.” 
STRENGTH THROUGH UNDERSTANDING 
yy 
———~ N FRIDAY, the final day 
of 
the exercise, I spent the early morning preparing 
the auditorium for the rally. At 11:30 students 
began to ant their way into the room, first a few 
scouting the way and then more. Row after row 
began to fill. A hushed silence shrouded the room. 
Third Wave banners hung like clouds over the assem- 
bly. At twelve o’clock sharp I closed the room and 
placed guards at each door. Several friends of mine 
posing as reporters and photographers began to inter- 
act with the crowd taking pictures and jotting frantic 
descriptive notes. A group photograph was taken. 
