OO 
—<«_— 
352 
COMMUNITY | 
CONSUMER REPORTS 
‘Consumer Reports 
Consumer Reports is a comfort. When the time is come 
to buy some goodie — color television, or a hi-fi, or a 
sewing machine — CU (Consumers Union) is there with the 
information on what’s the best, or the best buy, or the 
healthiest of the brands available. Consumer Reports is a 
monthly magazine with articles on various classes of 
products and various cases of marketing misbehavior; 
the December issue is the Buyer's Guide — a dense com- 
pendium of all the quality/price information. 
—SB 
Consumer Reports 
Consumers Union 
Staff, Editors 
$1 2iyear (11 issues and 
one Buyer's Guide) 
Consumer Reports 
Buyer’s Guide 
Consumers Union 
Staff, Editors 
$3.50 /year (annual) 
both from: 
Consumer Reports 
Consumers Union 
256 Washington Street 
Orangeburg, NY 10962 
The new Honda Civic was a pleasant surprise. 
It’s a much 
more civilized car than its predecessor. 
It’s larger and 
quieter, and it rides and handles better, too. What's more, 
its fuel mileage is the highest available outside of a 
diesel engine. 
The Civic 1500 turned in 48.8 mpg on the expressway 
and 28.2 mpg in the city. Over a year’s time (or 15,000 
miles of mixed highway and around-town driving), the 
little car would use about 390 gallons of fuel. 
Consumer Union News Digest 
From the makers of Consumer Reports a nice bi-weekly 
collection of synopses of consumer articles gleaned from 
150 periodicals. An unusually pleasant digest to scan. 
Consumers Union 
News Digest 
(An information service 
prepared by the library 
staff of Consumer 
Reports Magazine) 
$36 /year (24 issues) 
from: 
Consumers Union 
News Digest 
Blaisdell Road 
Orangeburg, NY 10962 
° 
Now It’s “‘No Frills’’ Supermarkets 
If you like the idea of “no frills’ groceries, you may be 
even more excited by the prospect of a “‘no frills’’ super- 
market. “No frills’’ outlets keep down prices by cutting 
services toa minimum. 
You choose your groceries from 
cartons stacked on the floor, bring your own paper bags, 
and pay cash — no check-cashing service provided. Since 
these outlets buy in volume to keep overhead low, 
customers generally have to buy in bulk too. The market 
may not always have everything on your shopping list; 
but if you have the space to stock up and a large family to 
feed, you may find the savings worthwhile. 
For small 
families with limited space, having to take a giant size 
box of detergent or a two-pound jar of honey may 
simply not be worth the trouble. “Saving Dollars At 
‘No Frills’ Supermarkets,’” by Loraine Serravillo, Christ- 
ian Science Monitor 3/21/79 p. 18. 
e 
Fireplaces May Be Friendly Fuel Savers After All 
Ever since the energy crisis, the fireplace, traditional 
symbol of warmth and security, has suffered disparage- 
ment. Armchair experts delight in revealing that a fire- 
place actually wastes heat because the warm air it draws 
from the interior of the house has to be replaced by 
cold outside air that must be heated by the furnace. 
_ 
Now there are signs that the fireplace’s sullied reputation 
may be redeemed. A study at Auburn University in 
Alabama shows that if the outside temperature is above 
15 degrees F. or the furnace is turned off, the typical 
fireplace will contribute more heat than it consumes. Not 
to be minimized, either, is the fireplace’s ability to lure 
the whole family into one room. 
It is then easy to save 
on fuel by turning down the heat in the rest of the house. 
“Fireplace’s Reputation Defended,” by David F. Salisbury. 
Christian Science Monitor 3/21/79 p. 3. 
Consider ‘‘natural’’ potato chips. They are often cut 
thick from unpeeled potatoes, packaged without preser- 
vatives in heavy foil bags with fancy lettering, and sold 
at premium price. Sometimes, such chips include “sea 
salt,’’ a product whose advantage over conventional 
“land” salt has not been demonstrated. The packaging 
is intended to give the impression that ‘‘natural’’ potato 
chips are less of a junk food than regular chips. But 
nutritionally there is no difference. Both are made from 
the same food, the potato, and both have been processed 
so that they are high in salt and in calories. 
Sometimes the “‘natural’’ products may have ingredients 
you'd prefer to avoid. Quaker 100% Natural cereal, for 
example, contains 24 percent sugars, a high percentage, 
considering it's not promoted as a sugared cereal. 
(Kellogg's Corn Flakes has 7.8 percent sugar.) Many 
similar “natural” granola-type cereals have oil added, 
giving them a much higher fat content than conven- 
tional cereals. 
Gadget 
This “newsletter for grown-up kids” features highly sub- 
jective user reports of the latest technological temptations 
available to the American consumer. 
The tests are in 
marked contrast to the pickynit documented programs of 
Consumer Reports. 
Gadget’s tota/ criticism might consist 
of a laconic “‘nobody on our staff liked it.” This is thin 
soup, considering that Consumer Reports costs $3 /ess per 
year. But Gadget reports on products as soon as they 
appear. Sometimes they show something that has only 
been on the market a matter of weeks. 
This can be an 
advantage if you value being the first on your block 
to have the /atest equipment, or if you are into electronic 
devices which obsolete themselves quickly. Gadget 
has no ads. 
—J. Baldwin 
Gadget 
$1 5/year (12 
issues) 
from: 
G.A. Publications, Inc. 
116 West 14th Street 
New York, NY 10011 
More of us are attempting 
to stay fit through strenuous 
bouts of exercise, be it 
jogging, tennis, racquetball 
or sessions at the local health 
club. This inevitably means 
more of us are experiencing 
aches and pains of bruised and 
and battered muscles. And, 
when there’s an ache, you 
can bet someone will be there with a product designed 
to make that ache go away. 
In this case, that someone is 
The Gillette Company (Prudential Tower, Boston, MA 
02199) and they call their contemporary ache-remover 
the Heat Wrap, a thin lightweight heating pad which 
Gillette likes to think of as the first major innovation in 
heating pad design in years. The Heat Wrap features a 
long narrow shape, measuring 20" x 6” with Velcro 
fasteners, and belt and shoulder loops to facilitate wrap- 
ping and keeping heat around large and small muscle 
areas. Although a bit narrow for use on general back- 
aches, the Gillette Heat Wrap works well with knees, 
elbows, ankles and wrists, as well as other areas: The 
Gillette Heat Wrap features a sponge insert for optional 
moist heat and three heat settings. Price: $17.99. 
=) 
Brand ond Sees 
Oversized shackle locks 
CITADEL) 
$28 
2ib. 
4kinxsn. @ OC O8 8 6 
KRYPTONITE 40 
25 
2 
ax 
©ooeoe6e6 
MAONUM II 1001) 
16 
2% 
3ux% 
@©o9o0 06 
ABUS 42H8/440-300 22 
3% 
2%x% 
0oeo0o 
86 
TECH LOCK 
142% 
Aux% 
©0064 
86 
SUPER-LOCK 
16 
2% 
Aux 
0oc0oc84 
@ 
KRYPTONITE 3 
90% 
oO 
© @®OOS4 
Excetient 
Ney 
Good 
Folr 
Poor 
© 
e& 08 @ 
If, as the FBI reports, bicycle theft has decreased some- 
what in recent years, the decline can hardly be attributed 
to the overall quality of bicycle locks on the market. 
More than half of the 171 models tested for this report 
were rated Not Acceptable because they could be 
yanked, stomped, or sprung apart without the use of tools. 
In bolt-cutter country, the first choice would be one of 
the oversized shackle locks. 
In our tests, the three top- 
rated models of that type — the Citade/, the Kryptonite 
4, and the Magnum — could easily resist the attacks 
commonly launched by bike thieves. 
Hamilton Beach 794 
Hamilton Beach 794 Drip Coffee Maker. This 2-10 cup 
ADC unit (with lighted switch) is a good, reasonably 
priced, no-frills machine with ample capacity for home 
use and an unusually attractive design. A new model 
(795) is just like this one, but has a timer that allows you 
to set it to start brewing a specified number of hours 
later (about $45). (Hamilton Beach Division, Scovill, 
Inc., Scovill Square, Waterbury, CT 06720) 
Heat Wrap 
TT 
The best shave is the cheapest 
Unless you're a real little leaguer we must share the 
memory of barbers and civilians caressing each others’ 
faces or the left and right sides of one face or some other 
comparison, ad nauseum. The point is that the barber 
shave has been conceded to be the best by anyone that 
has had one. 
It isn’t the basis of comparison anymore 
because nobody remembers. Well, let me tell you, it’s 
still great. 
| bought a straight razor for $2 and a strop for $5, both 
used from (of all people) a barber. 
| went to the old style 
barber shop (with the moose head somebody shot before 
it was disgraceful) where | went when | was little (and 
where | quit going when | wanted longer hair and found | 
couldn’t trust them). These guys all seem to have a drawer 
full of old razors that lost their shine. They try out new 
ones like you’d try out flavors of ice cream. When | 
bought my razor | had 10 - 15 different razors to choose 
among from the guys in the shop. They were all happy to 
unload them and even discounting the ones that were 
worn out, there was quite a choice (if you go to buy one 
new it will cost 5 - 10 times as much and don't expect a 
selection). All the guys in the shop gave me tips for sharp- 
ening and using the thing too — | was an instant expert. 
You do need to be initiated by someone who knows but 
it is worth the trouble. 
It takes less than $15 capital 
(razor, strop, stone, brush, soap) and you're set for 
10 years’ shaving. 
It might cost another dollar or two per year for soap but 
that’s all. You get the best shave, complete self-sufficiency, 
and a tremendous bargain at a stroke. 
If you drop $50 
on an electric, $10 per year on tune-ups (plus pre-shave, 
electricity, etc.) — no bargain for a 2nd class shave (and a 
new razor in 5 years). The safety razor is no prize either. 
An endless supply of blades, aerosol foam, etc. — the 
expense is staggering. You become a stainless steel junkie. 
And that is clearly a second-class shave too. 
It might get 
as close (the double blades sti// don’t win, guys) but it 
takes narrow, short strokes. A straight razor can take you 
your whole face in big, wide (and wear-saving) strokes. 
And did you ever try to cut off sideburns, go around a 
beard — square it off underneath. A couple of strokes 
through real hair and a safety razor looks like a paint 
brush (and cuts as well). A straight razor can’t clog. You 
get the same shave in the same time whether your last 
shave was yesterday or 20 years ago. 
Talk about common sense, perishable resources, crass 
commercial exploitation 
. 
. ., if there was ever a case of 
people’s habits being reoriented to generate consump- 
tion for its own sake.... 
Roger Hyde 
Los Angeles, California 
Editor’s question: any reports from women on straight 
razor advantages? 
—SB 
