~ 
Se 
ee 
ea 
_ SOFT TECHNOLOGY 
THIRD WORLD 
The Poor Man’s Wisdom 
Small Enterprises In Developing Countries 
These books are typical of a new and hopefully more 
enlightened approach to the bringing of an improved 
standard of living to developing countries. All of these 
books make use of case histories. Comparing them with 
my own experience, | find the analysis accompanying the 
case histories to be quite good. 
The Poor Man’‘s Wisdom stresses smal! businesses in general 
and particularly those which can be operated and con- 
trolled (most important!) by the very poorest people you 
might imagine. OXFAM, the publisher, is one of the most 
effective outfits working with appropriate technology and 
the very poor. Small Enterprises In Developing Countries 
is personal accounts, and thus a more intimate look at the 
successes and problems involved. 
, 
Both of these books should be useful to anyone contem- 
plating working in a less developed country, or to anyone 
who must introduce an unfamiliar technology to any local 
society. 
The message is clear: Not only must the tech- 
nology be right and the hardware adequate, the method 
of integrating it into the lives of the people who must 
use it has to be worked out as well. 
—J. Baldwin 
The Poor 
Man’s Wisdom 
(Technology and the Very Poor) 
Adrian Moyes 
1979; 40 pp. 
70 p. (about $1.60) 
postpaid from: 
OXFAM 
274 Banbury Road 
Oxford OX2 7DZ 
England 
Small Enterprises in Develop- 
ing Countries 
(Case Studies and Conclusions) 
Malcolm Harper and 
Tan Thiam Soon 
1979; 115 pp. 
$7.50 postpaid from: 
Intermediate Technology 
Development Group of 
North America 
P.O. Box 337 
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
or £2.95 postpaid from: 
Intermediate Technology 
Development Group 
9 King Street 
London, WC2E 8HN 
© 
Talk of the Town Beer Parlour (Nigeria) 
Local currency: Naira (M1) = 100 Kobo = U.S. $0.75 
John Okafor is the type who has an eye for business. 
He is full of energy and has a great deal of confidence in 
his ability to succeed in any small-scale business venture. 
One evening he talked to his friend who was a salesman 
for a brewery about the feasibility of his opening a beer 
parlour. His friend assured him that adequate supplies of 
beer would be available at a good price. 
John, therefore, decided to open a beer parlour and 
started to look for a strategic location. He was determined 
to have a considerably higher class beer parlour than the 
other bars. In January 1974 he found a site in a perfect 
location on the corner of Liberty Road and Trans-Ekulu 
Avenue quite near the bus turnaround. The rent for the 
special building was rather high (80.00 a month) but 
John was confident he could still make it. Besides, he 
thought, he could always close down if something went 
wrong. After all, to make it one must take a small risk. 
He proceeded to furnish the place putting in cushioned 
chairs and centre tables and building an imposing drinking 
counter with high bar stools. By the time he had finished 
decorating the place, he found out, to his amazement, 
that he had spent about N3,000.00 which was all the 
money he had. He still had to get the place licensed by 
having it inspected by the Ministry of Health and the 
Police. By the time everything was ready, he was so 
completely out of money that he did not bother to have 
the opening ceremony which would have involved a big 
fanfare with free drinks for everybody passing by. He 
simply started selling beer. 
The response was tremendous. He attracted many 
customers from the first day. He realised that an opening 
ceremony was not really necessary. People were attracted 
by the good facilities and more especially by the low 
price. He was selling beer at 55 Kobo a bottle while 
the other beer parlours were selling at 65 Kobo a bottle. 
His customers increased day by day and at times his three 
helpers were completely overwhelmed. People were 
sitting on the counter, on the window ledge and even on 
the floor. Some even brought their own chairs and sat 
outside. The place became the talk of the town and that 
is how it got its name — The Talk of the Town Bar. 
This dramatic success, however, was a mixed blessing, and 
the business was almost out of control. 
His three 
employees could not cope with the situation and he hired 
a fourth. He increased the price to 65 Kobo a bottle ina 
vain attempt to limit the number of customers, but 
without success. People kept coming. With people 
standing outside and drinking beer like a street party, 
his neighbours became alarmed and on several occasions 
called in the police. Fortunately the police came from 
the local post whose staff were regular customers of the 
bar and so did nothing. His biggest problem, however, 
came from the landlord who also owned a hotel about 
two hundred metres from the bar. This hotel had lost 
most of its custom to the Talk of the Town, and the land- 
lord retaliated by sending John a notice to quit six 
months after his opening. John pleaded with the landlord 
and asked his friends to talk to him but the landlord was 
Economically Appropriate Technologies 
for Developing Countries 
Bibliographies usually don’t make Book-of-the Month, 
but this one is so well annotated | read it from cover to 
cover! The subject matter is one of those “coming 
things” that isn’t quite in the everyday public eye yet. 
Dr. Carr’s fine work should help. 
—J. Baldwin 
$8.25 postpaid from: 
Intermediate Technology 
Development Group 
of North America 
Economically Appro- 
priate Technologies 
for Developing 
Countries 
P.O. Box 337 
(An Annotated 
Croton-on-Hudson, 
Bibliography) 
NY 10520 
Dr. Marilyn Carr, 
Compiler 
1976; 101 pp. 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
or £2.75 postpaid from: 
Intermediate Technology 
Development Group 
9 King Street 
Cornwall, London 
WC2E 8HN 
England 
e 
rod 
-Cabanos, P., Jeepney Manufacturing in the Philippines: 
A Model for Developing the Agricultural Machinery 
Industry, Agricultural Mechanization in Asia, 
Autumn, 1971. 
Describes how the ‘jeepney’ industry started in the 
Philippines after World War II, based on a preponderance 
of cheap surplus material and a great need for public con- 
veyance. The jeepney is low cost, simple vehicle based on 
a re-conditioned engine (in 1971, a jeepney capable of 
carrying 12 persons cost $1,600). As soon as the concept 
was developed, smal! shops producing crude versions 
cropped up almost overnight, and the industry has flour- 
ished to such an extent that annual sales in 1971 had 
reached 17 million dollars. Gives details of two large 
companies which started from scratch in the 1950s 
using simple tools. 
Rural Home Techniques 
— 
Ingenious living basics from the U.N. 
It’s amazing what 
you can do with clear drawing, describing, and thinking. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Thomas Laughlin] 
Rural Home 
5. Food Preservation - 
Techniques 
Series 2 
: 
i 
6. Labour Saving Ideas - 
Food and Agriculture 
Series 3 
Organization of the 
United Nations 
Volume: 
s 
1. Food Preservation 
Series 1 
(FPR) - Series 1 
$8.50 each postpaid 
2. Labour Saving Ideas 
from: 
(LSI) - Series 1 
UNIPUB 
3. Food Preparation 
345 Park Avenue South 
(FPP) - Series 1 
New York, NY 10010 
4. Labour Saving Ideas - 
Series 2 
7. Household Furnishing 
& Equipment (HFE) - 
Hanging Clothes 
Twisted rope method. 
Twist two pieces of 
clothesline. 
Place one 
end of a piece of cloth- 
ing through one of the 
loops that have been 
formed by the twisted 
clothesline, and the 
other end of the cloth- 
ing through another of 
the loops. The rope will 
tighten and hold the 
piece of clothing 
in place. 
Labour Saving Ideas — 
Series 
1 — Volume II 
UMM 
pita 
Olas) 
o10)'616 
6 
6be 
ae 
6 
<2 
-» 
6: 
.6,%8 
0 66 
"doe 
in 
Cee 
6 00 
adamant. John braced himself for a fight and contacted 
his lawyer. 
A threatening letter from the lawyer 
brought the landlord back to his senses, and he stopped 
harassing John. 
The boom continued. The bar was netting an average of 
fi500.00 a month. John’s friend from the brewery 
arranged a direct allocation from the factory for him 
and he also put him in touch with the other breweries’ 
salesmen who gave him direct allocations from their 
breweries. Under normal circumstances the beer supplies 
would have been more than enough but there were still 
too many customers. 
John put one of his boys in charge of the sales and 
devoted his entire time to collecting more beer. He 
arranged for a dealer to deliver a large quantity of fried 
meat, a delicacy which increased the thirst of his drinking 
customers, and this increased his profit to M650.00 a 
month. After nine months of operation he was doing so 
well that he started thinking of finding a bigger place, 
but before he could do anything real trouble started. 
A price control edict was enacted setting the wholesale 
Price of beer at N5.00 per carton of 12 bottles and the 
retail price at 50 Kobo per bottle. This meant that John’s 
profit was now only W1.00 per carton which made little 
difference so long as he was getting enough beer. 
However, almost simultaneously with the promulgation 
of the edict, his salesman friend was transferred to Lagos, 
a distance of some 350 miles. Although his official 
allocations were the same he was unable to procure 
additional supplies since the beer distributors started 
evading the edict by selling on the black market. 
For the 
first time he was unable to satisfy the demands of his 
ever thirsty customers. At first John refused to buy on 
the black market but when he started to have problems 
even with his official allocations he entered the black 
market. He knew this was very dangerous because the 
price control inspectors were always on the look out. 
Sometimes his beer parlour had to be closed for a whole 
day when his informants reported the presence of price 
control officials in the neighbourhood. 
His business went 
from poor to dismal, and he did not even make enough 
sales to pay for the rental. He hung on for a while hoping 
that business would improve but instead things got 
worse and in frustration he simply closed down, dis- 
regarding the advice of his friends. After auctioning his 
old furniture and fittings he had saved N6,000 after a 
year and a half of operation. 
Three months later an amendment to the edict came out 
imposing mandatory prison terms for violators. One 
morning he read in the papers that two of his former 
competitors had received six month’s jail terms for selling 
beer above the controlled price; John celebrated his fore- 
sight with a bottle of beer which he bought for §41.00. 
Comment 
This case study describes one venture of a typical 
entrepreneur, who seized an opportunity when he saw 
it, took a calculated risk by going into the business and 
Then withdrew from the market when the prospects 
declined. Entrepreneurs of this type will continue to seek 
out opportunities regardless of whether or not they 
receive support from the government and it may be 
argued that a beer parlour is not a suitable industry for 
government support. Nevertheless, economic activity of 
any sort which is not illegal all contributes to development 
and employment, and governments should avoid rapid 
price changes such as occurred in this situation when these 
are likely to cause major problems to indigenous small- 
scale entrepreneurs who distribute the product. 
It may be possible for breweries and other suppliers 
of staples to promote and train indigenous distributors 
since this increases their own sales. Many of the best 
small business assistance programmes are in fact run by 
manufacturers of shoes, beer, fatsand other staple products. 
It should also be noted that entrepreneurs of this type are 
perhaps the scarcest commodity of all in most developing 
countries, and it may be possible through judicious advice 
and encouragement to turn their attention towards 
industries which are more directly beneficial to the 
economy in terms of the product they produce and 
the numbers they employ. All too often, entrepren- 
eurs of this type are regarded as ‘cowboys’ or quasi- 
criminals rather than as partners in the process of 
economic development. 
—Small Enterprises in Developing Countries 
6.0 '0 “e's 6 sie oe 
6) a Se 66 
0 0/6 @ eee 
ule es 
ef & 
© ou 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
sly 
Walking down an urban street since the large scale 
release of mental patients, you can feel that you 
are really really together and the most apart 
you’ve ever been in your life has been a model of 
reality touching, or you can feel like you’re 
walking down the streets of some mental Calcutta, 
stepping on the faces of people who didn’t get 
your breaks and broke. What exactly is the appro- 
priate response to someone who in these days of 
inflation asks you for a nickle and asks you so 
slowly and painstakingly that you know this is 
one of the two or three sentences the guy has in 
the world? How much money would Thomas 
Szasz give him? What would the Good 
Samaritan do? 
Ww 
