ANTENNA BOOKS 
The final suggestion | can make for getting the most out 
of your SW receiver is to put the most into it: all portables 
come with built-in “whip” antennas, but if you do most 
of your dial-turning in one spot, you can easily boost 
your set’s signal capture ability by putting up a larger 
antenna. SW antennas are easy enough to make that 
there’s little reason to buy a prefab (unless you‘re so 
short on space that you need something called an “active” 
antenna, in which case you should consult someone more 
knowledgeable about such things than |). There are many 
books that explain how to build the basic designs. A 
good one for beginners (because it emphasizes practical, 
physical details and requires no math or radio theory) is 
Rufus Turner’s The Antenna Construction Handbook for 
Ham, CB & SWL. 
The book has a variety of proven 
designs and clever suggestions (like using a windowscreen 
as an antenna), and gives due attention to safety (light- 
ning protection, grounding). Another book for the more 
technically-minded is Orr and Cowan’s The Radio Amateur 
Antenna Handbook. 
Gi/fer considers it “the best book 
we've seen on this subject.’’ For a broad take on the 
literature, you might write to the Ham Radio Book Store, 
Greenville, NH 03048, and ask for their catalog. 
The Antenna Construc- 
tion Handbook for 
Ham, CB and SWL 
Rufus P. Turner 
1978; 230 pp. 
$5 95 postpaid from: 
TAB Books 
Blue Ridge 
Summit, PA 17214 
The Radio Amateur 
Antenna Handbook 
William |. Orr and 
Stuart D. Cowan 
1978; 190 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid from: 
Gilfer Shortwave 
P.O. Box 239 
Park Ridge, NJ 07656 
There’s no substitute for 
a monoband beam placed 
high and in the clear! 
This 21 MHz three element Yagi 
at 56 feet has worked plenty of DX at W6SAI. 
—The Radio Amateur Antenna Handbook 
VHF/UHF LISTENING 
Not all of the voice transmissions that you hear in the 
SW bands are broadcasts aimed at foreign publics. Some 
are semi-private conversations between radio amateurs 
(hams), land mobile units, CBers, etc. 
These can occa- 
sionally be interesting, but not often. A much richer 
selection of specialized communications is to be found 
above SW, in the VHF band (“very high frequency,” 
from 30 to 300 MHz) and the UHF band (“ultra high 
frequency,” 300 to 3000 MHz; the SW band, also known 
as “HF” 
or “high frequency,’ 
runs from 3 to 30 MHz). 
We're all familiar with VHF and UHF as the home of 
television channels 2 to 69 and FM radio (88 to 108 MHz), 
but large chunks of these bands are also reserved for the 
use of private industry, utilities, and government agencies. 
Although these channels are not “open to the public” in 
the broadcasting sense, it is perfectly legal to own 
receivers capable of tuning them in as long as you do not 
divulge anything you hear. 
In fact, the police-and-fire- 
band scanners made by companies like Electra (Bearcat), 
Radio Shack, and Regency can easily be adapted to let 
you listen to a wide variety of unusual, confidential 
transmissions by boats and airplanes, the Coast Guard, 
NASA, the military, the FBI, the Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission, NOAA, the Army Corps of Engineers, 
Private construction and repair crews, etc. Z-Tech 
Enterprises (P.O. Box 70, Hauppauge, NY 13901) special- 
izes in crystals for tuning in government frequencies; they 
Pop right in to the ordinary scanner’s crystal-bays. 
The 
newer “programmable” scanners require no crystals to 
receive any frequency within their intended band cover- 
age. 
These are more expensive than crystal scanners as an 
initial investment, but if you end up buying more than a 
dozen crystals for the cheaper kind, the overall price 
difference may be insignificant. 
For the more ambitious, 
VHF Engineering (320 Water Street, Binghamton, NY 
13901) sells receivers, already assembled or in kit form, 
that enable you to explore regions of the VHF spectrum 
not accessible to ordinary scanners, and for the really 
ambitious, The Radio Amateur’s VHF Manual ($4 from 
the American Radio Relay League, 225 Main Street, 
Newington, CT 06111) contains plans and how-to tips 
for probing these bands as a sender as well as a receiver. 
(Sorry |‘m not familiar enough with this technology to 
make specific hardware recommendations.) 
What you can find in these bands depends mainly on 
where you live. VHF and UHF signals are limited in 
range, and mobile transmitters are not very powerful, so 
if you live way out in the country, you’re not apt to hear 
much at all. But if you live in or near a city, an airport, 
a harbor, or a military installation, you‘re apt to hear 
quite a bit — particularly during a local emergency (flood, 
black-out, earthquake, riot). While some channels carry 
messages in an unlistenable form (radioteletype, computer 
code), a surprising number are in plain old voice. 
Even 
FBI channels, which you’d think would be coded or 
scrambled, often are not. 
It’s even possible (not likely, 
but possible) to pick up conversations transmitted from 
a surveillance “‘bug,” 
if it isn’t too far away — and you 
know what frequency it’s using. 
Knowing the frequency — that’s the big trick, since 
government frequency assignments aren’t made known 
by the government. 
Most agencies like the FBI rely on 
the lack of public information about their radio systems, 
the slight inconvenience involved in getting access to their 
part of the spectrum, the brevity of their normal trans- 
missions, and the shifting of message traffic among their 
available channels — and not much else — to keep their 
radio communications secure. 
(Beyond that, many 
regular radio users speak in a slang familiar only to their 
cohorts, like CBers, so you may not understand a message 
even if you hear it clearly.) These are genuine obstacles 
to the would-be listener, but they’re hardly insurmount- 
able, especially to an avid VHF buff like Tom Kneitel. 
He’s been monitoring government use of the band for 
more than thirty years, and has compiled The ‘Top 
Secret’ Registry of U.S. Government Radio Frequencies, 
which lists over 3800 frequencies from 25 to 470 MHz, 
and the 50+ agencies that use them. Aside from those 
Ive already mentioned, there are listings for the Postal 
Service, the Red Cross, the Federal Bureau of Prisons, 
the CIA, and several agencies concerned with the environ- 
ment (Bureau of Land Management, EPA, Fish & Wildlife 
Service, Forest Service, etc.), though the vast majority 
are military. As a bonus, Kneitel includes the frequencies 
of 37 U.S. government satellites, and 23 more put up by 
foreign governments. 
There’s even a listing for a fre- 
quency used in military “death ray” experiments (388 
MHz)! An unknown number of these frequencies are not 
in use at any particular moment, an unknown number are 
used only sporadically, and some of the agency attri- 
butions are just hunches. Nonetheless, this is the best key 
‘ve seen for unlocking the treasure-house of government 
radio communications. 
In the same way that SW is 
unbeatable for following distant crises, Kneitel’s Registry 
and a VHF scanner are unbeatable for following crises 
nearby (not too nearby, hopefully). 
The ‘Top Secret’ 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Registry of U.S. 
CRB Research 
P.O. Box 56 
Government Radio 
Frequencies 
Tom Kneitel 
1979; 34 pp. 
Commack, NY 11725 
For a current and quite extensive listing of frequencies 
used by local “‘public safety’ 
and state government 
agencies (including police, fire, highway patrol and repair, 
hospitals, etc), get hold of Radio Shack’s Police Call 
Radio Directory. 
/t comes in nine different volumes, 
each for a specific region of the country. 
In most places, 
it is these local agencies rather than the federal govern- 
ment which dominate the airwaves. 
Police Cali Radio Directory (Including Fire and Emer- 
gency Services), Gene Hughes, Editor, Annual; 150 pp. 
Volume 1 (Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New 
Hampshire, New York, Rhode Island, Vermont) 
Volume 2 (Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania) 
Volume 3 (Michigan, Ohio) 
Volume 
4 (Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Wisconsin) 
Volume 5 (lowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, 
North Dakota, South Dakota) 
Volume 6 (District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, North 
Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia) 
Volume 7 (Alabama, Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, 
Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas) 
Volume 8 (Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, New 
Mexico, Nevada, Utah, Wyoming) 
Volume 9 (California, Oregon, Washington) 
$5.95 each postpaid, all from Hollins Radio, P.O. Box 
35002, Los Angeles, CA 90035, or check your local 
Radio Shack. 
® 
A 
fe OC 
Be 
et 
ee 
COMMUNICATIONS 
RADIO 525 
Weather radio 
During the last five years or so the government has built 
a network of radio broadcast stations to give 24-hour, 
updated weather reports, specialized for each region of 
the country and the people living there (more marine- 
oriented along the coastlines, for instance). 
To tune in 
the broadcasts you need radios which can pick up the 
162.40 - 162.55 megaHertz “Weather Band.”’ Most 
radio-stereo stores carry the equipment for around $20 - 
$40. For more information and a list of operating 
stations write: National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, Weather Network, National Weather 
Service, Attn: W112, 8060 13th Street, Silver Spring, 
MD 20910. 
—Art Kleiner 
Some plain old portable AM-FM radios have a weather 
band feature. 
It’s worth having! That’s how / start 
my day. 
“Small craft advisory for westerly winds 25 - 
30 mph in the afternoon. 
High tide at the Golden 
Gate will be at...” 
—~ 
ia 
~— 
= 
3 
i 
A 
roy 
{ 
“y. 
fr 
aS 
—_— 
bat] 
NOAA weather radio transmitters as of 1980 
Radios that Work for Free 
How many of you have had a crystal set radio? Not 
many Ili bet. Mine (about 1940) drove me bananas 
because when | was listening to “‘Gangbusters,”’ a for- 
bidden fruit in our family, the gunshots at the finale 
would cause the catwhisker to jump off the crystal, and 
Id never find out whodunnit. Anyway, this book elegantly 
tells how to construct one. 
Though the author tells how 
to make the battery by sticking electrodes into a lemon (!), 
he isn’t fuddyduddy. 
There’s a /ot about utilizing modern 
diodes instead of the crystal and catwhisker. 
| found the 
whole business possessing a strange esthetic. 
/t’s 
presented nicely too. 
Sy isi oe 
i aaa] 
Radios that 
i 
w 
Work for Free 
ah 
K.E. Edwards 
; 
1977; 147 pp. 
$6 postpaid from: 
Hope and Allen 
Publishing Company 
P.O. Box 535 
Belmont, CA 94002 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
These radios work for free, that is, you don’t have to 
plug them in, nor do you put batteries into them. So, 
where does the power come from? The power comes 
from the broadcast station who is transmitting. 
U.S. Frequency Allocations Chart 
It’s not as pretty as a land map, but it’s even more essen- 
tial to find your way around electromagnetic territory. 
The whole allocations table, from 10 kHz to 300 GHz — 
minus all the footnotes, technical specifications, excep- 
tions, etc. — is presented graphically, using patterns and 
colors to identify the various services. 
| must say the 
colors are harsh — pungent pinks, greens, blues, reds — 
but that gives the chart an appropriately non-decorative 
impact. 
| can’t say what exactly /’ve learned from having 
iton my wall, but it does keep me aware of how much 
of the world is beyond direct perception. 
—Robert Horvitz 
$1 35 postpaid from: 
Superintendent 
of Documents 
U.S. Government 
U.S. Frequency 
Allocations Chart 
Department of Commerce 
Office of 
Se 
: 
Telecommunications 
Printing Office 
1975; 32" x 55” 
Washington, DC 20402 
No. 003-000-00469 
-4 
oe Ab] ie Se fe 6! ey iene. oh.) weeps) eee 
ey alm "e: See. © -6)4\ a8 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
“Pm so hungry I could eat the last member of an 
—Stephanie 
endangered species.” 
aie
