DREW 
FLEUGELMAN 
Bees 
Lynn Mathison has a nice family underway with her 
one-year-old daughter Brook Lyn Mathison. The only 
thing unusual about Brook is the manner of her 
conception. Three of Lynn’s gay male friends made 
a joint sperm donation and then waited attentively 
to see who the child would resemble. The other women 
in the house Brook shares cavorted around behind the 
camera to help with the first published portrait of a 
family made by amateur artificial insemination. The 
root of the word ‘‘amateur”’ is ‘‘love.”’ 
You have to get all kinds of permission to kill somebody, 
but anyone can start a person that wants to. I think 
that’s great. Now, thanks to the growing expertise in 
amateur insemination by the San Francisco Bay Area gay 
community, the possibilities for person-making are even 
wider. 
We're having a boom of turkey-baster babies 
among the lesbians, is what’s happening. 
Susan Stern reported at some length on the phenomen in 
the Summer 1980 CoE volution, “Lesbian Insemination.” 
In the piece here she focuses mainly on technique. 
Where 
all this will lead remains to be seen. The gossip is that a 
high (2/3?) proportion of the babies are boys. Last year 
one Armand Karow told a Houston meeting of the 
American Association for the Advancement of Science 
that artificial insemination significantly reduces miscar- 
riage and dramatically reduces birth defects. He added 
that sperm that have been frozen up to fifteen years have 
successfully conceived. Any year now, I expect, we'll have 
a black market in frozen sperm from (or allegedly from) 
famous donors. Hm! Would I rather father my own kid, 
or, say, Gregory Bateson’s, or Miles Davis’, or, um, 
Charles Darwin’s? Something to think about. 
AMATEUR INSEMINATION 
by Susan Stern 
—SB 
With a little help from your friends you can get 
pregnant in your own home without having sex. 
You can use artificial insemination. Doctors have 
been doing it for decades to impregnate the wives 
of sterile men. But now lesbian and heterosexual 
single women are bearing children outside the 
closet of heterosexual wedlock. In doing so they 
have brought artificial insemination out of the 
Ob-Gyn suite and into the bedroom. 
Artificial insemination is a three-act procedure. A 
man ejaculates into a clean glass jar. The semen is 
delivered to the woman. Lying with her legs 
slightly raised, the woman squirts the semen into 
her vagina with an eyedropper, turkey baster, or 
needleless syringe. 
Artificial insemination is not complicated, but 
there are techniques that definitely improve its 
success. A glass jar for the semen is preferable to 
a plastic container because the petroleum in 
plastics has been known to kill some sperm. 
Using a wide mouthed shallow jar will make it 
easier to remove semen with the eyedropper, 
turkey baster, or syringe. ~ 
The semen should be used as soon as possible, 
within 1-2 hours. If it is going to be carried 
from one house to another it should be protected 
from light and cold, which may kill some sperm. 
In other words, put the jar in a paper bag and 
carry it close to your body’s warmth. Don’t 
worry if the amount of semen looks small. About 
2 cc (a half teaspoon) of semen is a normal 
ejaculation, quite capable of impregnating. 
In order to get the semen to flow toward your egg 
rather than down your leg, lie down with your 
legs slightly raised (on a pillow, chair, wall, friend’s 
or lover’s lap). By tilting your pelvic area up, 
gravity will help pull the sperm into your uterus. 
Whatever you use to put the semen into your 
vagina, make sure it doesn’t take the semen 
back out with it. It may seem obvious, but 
don’t release the bulb of the eyedropper or baster 
or pull back the plunger of the syringe until you 
have removed it from yourself. If you use a turkey 
baster, don’t insert it more that 1% inches. A 
turkey baster expells a lot of air. If it is inserted 
too far, the opening of the cervix could be hurt. 
Lying down for about thirty minutes after the 
insemination will keep the sperm inside you. If 
you have to get up immediately, put a diaphragm 
in first and squirt semen behind it, between it and 
your cervix. 
That’s it for the mechanics. But artificial insemina- 
tion, like ‘‘natural’’ insemination, is more than 
mechanics. You will also have to chart your 
ovulation-menstruation cycle to find your fertile 
period. Then you will have to find a donor(s) and 
decide what role, if any, he will play in your and 
your child’s future. 
Sperm can stay alive in the fertile cervical mucus 
for about four days. The egg, however, begins to 
disintegrate 24 hours after ovulation. You 
should try to inseminate as many times as 
possible during the fertile period from four days 
before to one day after ovulation. 
Determining the day you ovulate is one of those 
things that is easier on paper than in practice. 
Ovulation occurs at different times for different 
women and may vary for each woman from month 
to month, but you can start with the premise that 
ovulation usually occurs from 12 - 16 days prior to 
the beginning of your period. The best way to 
pin down your own pattern of ovulation is to 
chart the daily changes in your basal body temper- 
ature and cervical mucus for a couple of months 
before you start inseminating. After a couple of 
months of watching these ovulation indicators, the 
pattern of your particular ovulation will become 
fairly clear. 
Your basal body temperature is your body temper- 
ature taken at its lowest ebb (immediately upon 
waking) with a specially gradated thermometer. 
Most drug stores sell basal thermometers, complete 
with directions for estimating ovulation, for about 
$6. Your basal body temperature will zig-zag up 
and down from day to day throughout your cycle, 
but the approximate day of ovulation will be 
distinguished by a sharp drop in temperature 
immediately followed by a sharp, steady rise. The 
exact moment when ovulation occurs is debatable, 
but most sources agree that when your tempera- 
ture has risen, ovulation is over. 
The color, texture and quantity of the cervical 
mucus in your vagina will change along with your 
body temperature during your fertile period. At 
the beginning and end of your menstrual cycle, 
when your estrogen level is low, the mucus will be 
scant, tacky, opaque and infertile. As your estrogen 
level increases the mucus also increases and 
becomes at first thinner and milkier and then 
clearer, more watery and more fertile. Just 
prior to ovulation, when the estrogen level peaks, 
the mucus will become profuse, slippery and very 
fertile. It will look something like egg white and 
stretch between your thumb and forefinger in an 
unbroken strand. 
While you’re getting your ovulation time pin- 
pointed, you can be lining up your donor(s). This 
may prove to be the hardest part of artificial 
insemination. Since VD can be transmitted 
through the sperm, it is a good idea to ask your 
donors to get themselves tested. You may also 
want to ask him/them to complete a medical 
history questionnaire. You would want to ask 
what diseases, allergies or impairments members of 
the donor’s family (siblings, parents, aunts and 
uncles, grandparents) have suffered from, in order 
to eliminate donors with clearly undesirable 
heriditary conditions. You might also want to 
know what chemicals the donor is exposed to on 
his job and what drugs he takes. Various chemicals 
and drugs have been proven to cause sterility, 
decrease the sperm count or cause inheritable 
damage in the chromosomes of the sperm. 
‘COMMUNITY 
- 
AMATEUR INSEMINATION 345 _ 
* To make sure your donor’s sperm count is as high 
al 
aligh 
a 
wilde, 
6 
0)<0.9) 
0766.10 
C 
epee 
© 
0-8 
6 es 
.6 
0 W 
Sele 
Sew 
ere 
6 Ce 
KN 
eC 
ec 
wee 
we 
His 
as possible, you may also want to ask him to forgo 
hot baths or saunas for 24 hours before donating. 
and refrain from ejaculating for 24 - 48 hours 
before donating. 
Being a sperm donor is clearly no casual affair. 
Once you have found a donor or donors that pass 
your inspection, you will want to warn them that, 
even via ‘“‘natural’’ insemination, conception often 
takes six to eight months of trying. Some women 
prefer to use men they know and like. If you 
and your donor know each other, it is crucial 
that you agree upon exactly what his rights and 
responsibilities to your child will be. Some 
women draw up contracts spelling out these areas 
of potential conflict, but lesbian rights lawyers 
warn that even these contracts may not stand up 
in court if either the mother or donor changes her/ 
his mind when the baby becomes flesh. 
If you know that you don’t want the donor in 
your future, the safest route is to use anonymous 
donors. 
This, however, makes the process a little 
more complicated. 
If you live in a community 
with a large ‘‘out” gay population, there may 
be women who are running artificial insemina- 
tion services who can set you up. Call your 
local women’s center or women’s clinic. 
If there 
are no such services in your community, your 
friends can be enlisted to find and screen donors 
and transport the semen without revealing their or 
your identity. Even if your donor is a friend, you 
may want another friend to transport the semen. 
If you don’t get pregnant after several months of 
concerted effort, you might want to take your 
donor’s semen to a local laboratory for a sperm 
count. You can find a lab in the phone book. 
If 
you don’t get pregnant after a year of effort, it 
; 
may be time to get professional medical advice and 
j 
perhaps have your own fertility tested. But the 
important thing is, as they say, to “‘stay relaxed.” 
Stress and ill health can bea barrier to conception. 
= 
The pamphlets listed below can give you more informa- 
tion on artificial insemination. 
They also detail some 
techniques that women have been trying out to select 
the sex of their child. None of these techniques, however, 
have been proven successful, and some may even decrease 
your chances of conception. 
, 
Lesbian Health 
Matters 
Mary O‘Donnell and 
Kater Pollock, et al. 
1979; 101 pp. 
$3.75 postpaid from: 
Santa Cruz Women’s 
Health Center 
P.O. Box 1735 
! 
250 Locust Street 
G 
P. 
|
Santa Cruz, CA 95060 
ieee 
Woman Controlled 
Conception 
Mary Anonymous and 
Sarah Anonymous 
1979; 25 pp. 
$2 Postpaid from: 
Womanshare Books 
hi miet eels ce) s Ye) 
we 
&. wie bie ele w 
« 1° 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
continued from last spread 
But who has a church bell? Privately owned 
church bells are rare and how my family got ours 
was from a defrocked church. Churches like the 
Methodist used to be based on tiny country 
churches established with great trouble by pio- 
neers and then everyone moved to the city, and 
later when they moved back from the city they 
didn’t go to church at all or if they did, went to 
suburban churches where people with similar kids 
and ambitions were and the little country church 
since 1823 would have an average attendance of 
8, five from the same family, and they’d finally 
give up or the larger church organization would 
make them give up, and there’d be a closing cere- 
mony with hundreds of people who used to be 
connected with that church, and it was all one of 
those things that was fairly sad but so inevitable 
you didn’t really want to think about it much and 
one of these churches closed and was sold for 
something fairly commercial (I’d love to say 
Col. Sanders but since I can’t remember, that 
would be cheating) but before it was sold one of 
its former ministers took the bell (no small task, it 
was a heavy son of a bitch) kept it in his garage for 
2 years and then gave it to another minister, my 
father, because my father is good at using things. 
continued on next spread 
VS 
