WHOLE SYSTEMS 
18 SPACE 
The sky starts at your feet 
(continued from p. 17) 
from time to time in any civilization, you get a lot 
of disruption and confusion, but you also can get 
a fresh angle on old problems, public and personal. 
As a nomad once told me, “Think for a while 
about cows and fences and grazing. 
It’s not just 
in your mind — the grass IS greener on the other 
side of the fence.” 
If built, the fact of Space Colonies will be as 
momentous as the atomic bomb. Each make 
statements that are equally fundamental. The one 
says, ““We can destroy the Earth.” The other says 
we can leave it, leave home. With that our per- 
spective is suddenly cosmic, our Earth tiny and 
precious, and our motives properly suspect. 
On the other hand, suppose that the Space Colonies 
don’t work, that we do find some fatal flaw. It 
would be no less of an event. “We cannot leave 
the Earth” is a thought so foreign to the 20th 
Century that nothing would be unchanged by it. 
Either way it goes the experiment should be made, 
because not knowing whether we can leave the 
planet begs all of our important questions. Either 
knowledge — knowing we can leave or knowing we 
can’t — could make for more responsible habits. 
Either knowledge is a kind of growing up. 
The same applies to the biology. 
If we can learn 
to successfully manage large complex ecosystems 
in the Space Colonies, that sophistication could 
help reverse our destructive practices on Earth. 
And if we fail, if our efforts to impersonate evolu- 
tion in Space repeatedly runs amok, then we will 
have learned something as basic as Darwin about 
our biosphere — that we cannot manage it, that it 
manages us, that we are in the care of wisdom 
beyond our knowing (true anyway). 
Is balance really possible where even the gravity is 
manufactured? 
It would be nice to know. 
Space Colonies are distinguished from other high 
tech mischief such as nuclear energy, the SST, 
and the Arms Race by a major difference. They 
take place outside the Earth’s atmosphere. They 
are separate whole systems. The experiment of 
Space Colonies endangers only the experimenters. 
When high tech goes wrong on Earth it is the 
innocent who get the consequences, down wind, 
downstream, and down the years. What Space 
Colonists use from Space — energy, materials, 
and location — is taken from no one else. They 
are out of the Earthly ‘‘zero sum game” where 
one group’s gain is another’s loss. 
“North America all over again,” is everyone’s 
first response. “Now we'll pillage Space.” Could 
be. But most of that thinking has scant compre- 
hension of the nature of the Space environment. 
There’s somewhat more than a lot of it. There is 
in fact no perceptible or theoretical end to it. 
Space is not like a continent, or the Pacific Ocean, 
or anything else we’ve experienced except possibly 
death and rebirth. It’s more like a Buddhist chant: 
“No-air-no-gravity-no-night-no-day-no-up-no- 
down-no-motion-no-past-no-standing-still-no-life- 
also-no-death-no-thing-only-waves-of-star-star-star- 
star-star.”” 
In de-emphasizing the exotic qualities of life in 
Space O’Neill is making a mistake I think. People 
want to go not because it may be nicer than what 
they have on Earth but because it will be harder. 
The harshness of Space will oblige a life-and-death 
reliance on each other which is the sort of thing 
that people romanticize and think about endlessly 
but seldom get to do. 
This is where I look for new cultural ideas to 
emerge. There’s nothing like an impossible task 
to pare things down to essentials — from which 
comes originality. You can only start over from 
basics, and, once there, never quite in the same 
direction as before. 
So much for all the wonderful benefits of Space 
Colonies. Is there any likelihood we can politically 
get from here to there? 
The most political argument against is the trade- 
off one — couldn’t we spend $100 billion elsewhere 
more beneficially? 
I’m not so sure. The Apollo 
Program cost $25 billion, and as government 
projects go it probably did more good, did less 
harm, and made more friends for America than 
anything else we’ve done since the Marshall Plan. 
And, I’m claiming that the prospect of Space 
Colonies gives us the best leverage on the Arms 
Race that we’re ever likely to get this side of war. 
It employs the same nations, the same engineers, 
manufacturers, contractors, etc., and it’s a more 
interesting story. The Arms Race is a big bore. 
Nothing ever happens. 
Perhaps the leading U.S. and Russian Space plan- 
ners should participate in the next round of SALT 
talks and turn them into Strategic Arms Conversion 
Talks. ‘‘We’ll scrap the MX missile system and 
build a Model I Space Colony instead, if you'll 
do the equivalent.” Conversion may be a great 
deal easier to monitor than Limitation — is the 
alternative project coming along or not? Look and 
see. 
It might even be that collaboration would 
have reason to replace competition — if only to 
check on each other’s de-weaponization. Maybe 
Apollo-Soyuz was about something. America 
has better expertise in Space so far, but Russia 
has more imaginative long-range fantasies. And 
their astronauts sing better than ours. 
Where mass support seems to be building is among 
college age and younger. Most science fiction 
readers — there are estimated to be two million 
avid ones in the U.S. — are between the ages of 
12 and 26. The first printing for a set of Star 
Trek blueprints and space cadet manual was 
450,000. A Star Trek convention in Chicago drew 
15,000 people, and a second one a few weeks later 
in New York drew 30,000. They invited NASA 
officials and jammed their lectures. 
Now is the time for NASA to encourage people 
besides engineers to get into the act. The program 
needs administrators who are not afraid of excel- 
lent artists, novelists, poets, film-makers, historians, 
anthropologists, and such who can speak to the 
full vision of what’s going on. And their voice 
needs to be a design voice, not just advisory. 
America (and Russia) were in Space for ten years 
before they bothered to get a photograph of the 
Earth. That’s pretty arid thinking. There’s no 
reason it has to continue. 
To be sure, if the soft sciences and arts are let into 
the Space Program there will be constant argument 
and much silliness. Good. One of the best points 
that O’Neill makes for Space Colonies is that they 
lead to divergence — many visions traveling in 
many directions. That could become their best 
teal function. 
Ten thousand or one million or many millions of 
people in Space is somewhat about engineering, 
but it’s mostly about people. 
Earth and Moon, for once, drawn te scale. 
In this scale the nearest next item, Venus, 
would be fifty-eight yards away. 
Beiween, nothing. 
Except sunlight. 
Returning to the question of Artificial vs. Natural, 
my friend Dick Baker has his doubts. Some years 
before he became a Zen abbot he worked in the 
merchant marine and observed that too long on 
board in a totally man-made environment tended 
to make the seamen a bit crazy. The same, he’s 
noticed, goes for cities. 
It’s true, we make ourselves dishonest in worlds 
we have had too much of the making of. Still, 
“Natural” has a way of getting through whatever 
barriers. As Baker said in another context, ‘““From 
the Buddhist point of view everything is artificial.” 
The shocks of this Age are the shocks of pace. 
Change accelerates around us so rapidly that we 
are strangers to our own pasts and even more to 
our futures. Gregory Bateson comments, “I think 
we could have handled the industrial revolution, 
given 500 years.” 
In 100 years we have assuredly not handled it. We 
manufactured an “Age of Discontinuity” (Peter 
Drucker) whose time horizon forward is terrifyingly 
close — 4 years in politics, 
10 years in major corp- 
orations. 
I feel serene when I can comfortably 
encompass two weeks ahead. 
That’s a pathological condition. 
But I think it will pass, partly from its pure 
unworkability, partly from the move of some of 
humanity into space. The project of space explor- 
ation, industrialization, colonization, and migration 
is so big and so slow and so engrossing that I think 
it will bring the rest of human activity into its 
pace. 
If you want to inhabit a moon of Jupiter — 
that’s a reasonable dream now— one of the skills 
you must cultivate is patience. 
It’s not like a 
TV set or a better job — apparently cajolable from 
a quick politician. Your access to Jupiter has to 
be won — atits pace — from a difficult solar system. 
With the first color photograph of the Earth from 
its Moon, the whole Earth became a political idea 
and ecology a political movement which has 
continued to strengthen in its 15 years so far. 
Though I have thought at times that the health of 
space perspective on Earthly activities has gone as 
far as it can, recently I’m not so sure. 
The reach of human intelligence to the stars is an 
enormous undertaking. When I grasp the reality of 
that, not just the words, but the actual project, a 
religious scale of presence that spans centuries 
comforts me. Feeling comfortable and curious 
that far forward, and therefore that far backward, 
I begin to feel at home again. Interested in events 
longer than the ego’s prison of ‘“‘my lifetime’, 
I’m free to care for other large continuities such as 
the life of the Earth and the drama of human 
culture. Previously overwhelming urgencies, like 
the deadline on this book for me, fall into 
microcosmic place — worth doing, connected, 
but not urgent. 
Religious-scale projects — and their comforts — 
have often scourged humankind. 
I’m thinking of 
Egyptian dynasties, Moslem jihads, Mongol hordes, 
Christian crusades, the Third Reich, world Com- 
munism, maybe science itself. Part of their hazard 
is that they become their own universe — an infinite 
regress of self-reference grounded nowhere. 
Space exploration is grounded firmly on the abyss. 
Space is so impossible an environment for us soft, 
moist creatures that even with our vaulting abstrac- 
tions we will have to move carefully, ponderously 
into that dazzling vacuum. 
The stars can’t be rushed. Whew, that’s a relief. 
= 
DON RYAN 
> 
Earth 
(Gaia) 
