Rules for Radicals 
Toward a science of revolution. Much radical literature 
is aimed at fighting. This book is aimed, by an expert, 
at winning. 
—SB 
Rules for Radicals 
Saul D. Alinsky 
1971; 196 pp. 
$2.45 postpaid from: 
Vintage Books 
Random House 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
For an elementary illustration of tactics, take parts of 
your face as the point of reference; your eyes, your ears, 
and your nose. First the eyes; if you have organized a 
vast, mass-based people's organization, you can parade 
it visibly before the enemy and openly show your power. 
Second the ears; if your organization is small in numbers, 
then do what Gideon did: conceal the members in the 
dark but raise a din and clamor that will make the listener 
believe that your organization numbers many more than 
it does. Third, the nose; if your organization is too tiny 
even for noise, stink up the place. 
Always remember the first rule of power tactics: Power 
is not only what you have but what the enemy thinks 
you have. 
The second rule is: Never go outside the experience of 
your people. When an action or tactic is outside the 
experience of the people, the result is confusion, fear, 
and retreat. It also means a collapse of communication, 
as we have noted. 
The third rule is: Wherever possible go outside of the 
experience of the enemy. Here you want to cause confu- 
sion, fear, and retreat... 
The fourth rule is: Make the enemy /ive up to their own 
book of rules. You can kill them with this, for they can 
no more obey their own rules than the Christian church 
can live up to Christianity. 
The fourth rule carries within it the fifth rule: Aid/cu/e 
is man’s most potent weapon. \t is almost impossible to 
counterattack ridicule. Also it infuriates the opposition, 
who then react to your advantage. 
The sixth rule is: A good tactic is one that your people 
enjoy. |\f your people are not having a ball doing it, there 
is something very wrong with the tactic. 
The seventh tule: A tactic that drags on too long becomes 
adrag... 
The eighth rule: Keep the pressure on, with different 
tactics and actions, and utilize all events of the period 
for your purpose. 
The ninth rule: The threat is usually more terrifying than 
the thing itself. 
The tenth rule: The major premise for tactics is the 
development of operations that will maintain a constant 
pressure upon the opposition. 
The eleventh rule is: /f you push a negative hard and deep 
enough it will break through into its counterside; this is 
based on the principle that every positive has its negative. 
We have already seen the conversion of the negative into 
the positive, in Mahatma Gandhi's development of the 
tactic of passive resistance. 
. 
. 
The twelfth rule: The price of a successful attack is a 
constructive alternative. You cannot risk being trapped 
by the enemy in his sudden agreement with your demand 
and saying, ‘You're right—we don’t know what to do 
about this issue. Now you tell us.” 
The thirteenth rule: Pick the target, freeze it, personalize 
it, and polarize it. 
POLITICS 
TACTICS 395 
Revolution and Evolution in 
the Twentieth Century 
The left-wing youth movement is showing vitality these 
days, especially on anti-nuke and anti-draft themes. 
The 
new leaders have a useful tool in the non-violent organizing 
techniques of the mid-1970s. 
They are called various 
names but are actually highly structured guerrilla manage- 
ment. 
The new theories are grounded in the Boggs’ 
writings. 
This one is their best. 
The name of their own 
organization is The New Organization for the American 
Revolution. James is black, Grace is Asian. 
Their final 
views are very close to most environmentalists and 
the “simple livers” like me. 
The book is 1) well written, 
2) full of good ideas, 3) very important. 
—Michael Phillips 
Revolution and 
; 
Evolution in the 
ee 
Twentieth Century 
James Boggs and 
Grace Lee Boggs 
1974; 266 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid from: 
Monthly Review Press 
62 West 14th Street 
New York, NY 10041 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
FP 
AMI 
LAM) 
BEL 
AE 
AT 
Hi 
e 
There has to be some sense of process — that doing things 
takes time and that there is a logical and temporal rela- 
tionship between various steps of the activity. And there 
has to be a sense of workmanship, i.e., that the quality of 
the results depends upon the quality of the effort. 
It is 
inconceivable that humankind could exist without work. 
The new ethic of work starts out in the first place with the 
idea that work is a necessity for the human personality. 
Raising Hell 
It’s all too easy while muckraking to overlook important 
statistics or ramifications because the data is hidden in 
the collective memory of some obscure agency. 
This 
booklet, published by Mother Jones, makes finding that 
data an accessible process. 
It’s not the comprehensive 
tactical manual that the subtitle would imply, but it does 
provide an inexpensive introduction to reference books, 
places to call, and what to ask for when you get ‘em on 
the phone. As reporter Nancy Dunn suggested, your 
next step should probably be a glance at Finding 
Facts Fast (p. 496). 
—Art Kleiner 
For the People 
An excellent how-to-do it book for consumer action 
ranging from surveys of drugstore pricing to evaluating 
nursing homes. 
Complete details and examples including 
how to run a news conference when you finally blow 
the whistle. 
—Michael Phillips 
For the People 
(A Consumer Action 
Handbook) 
Joanne Manning Anderson 
1977; 379 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid from: 
Addison-Wesley Publishing 
Company, Inc. 
Jacob Way 
Reading, MA 01867 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
One of the purposes of a doctor's directory is to provide 
consumers with basic information — information about 
education, availability, fees, and services — that will 
enable them to make a more informed choice when 
selecting a doctor. 
In addition, a doctors’ directory can 
help demystify the medical profession in the minds of 
consumers by arousing consumer consciousness about 
questions to ask doctors. A directory provides a first 
step towards a more open relationship between doctor 
and patient, and the willingness or reluctance of doctors 
to cooperate may indicate their attitude towards such a 
relationship. The directory outlined in this project should 
not be viewed as an attempt to evaluate the medical 
competence of doctors. 
Legislators may be influenced by any of the following: a 
genuine interest in your issue, favorable publicity, the 
stand taken by committee chairpeople and other legis- 
lative or political party leaders, views of staff people, 
and loyalty to friends, lobbyists, and campaign contribu- 
tors. But for most legislators, the desire for the support 
of the voting public proves the most important moti- 
vating factor. Reelection or election to a higher office 
is never far from their minds, and only public support 
can elect. Votes talk and legislators listen. 
Raising Hell 
(A Citizens Guide to 
the Fine Art of 
Investigation) 
Dan Noyes 
1978; 32 pp. 
$1 .35 postpaid from: 
Mother Jones Magazine 
625 Third Street 
San Francisco, CA 94107 
Remember the phone book! 
It’s surprising how many 
times this essential directory is overlooked in trying to 
research someone. 
Use it to check the spelling of a name, 
address and phone number. Many larger cities have 
reverse phone books that list telephone numbers by 
address. 
Use it to obtain 
a phone number if you only 
have an individual’s address, verify an address or find 
other phone numbers for the same address. 
Eight Sneaky Ways to Get Information About Groups You’re Investigating 
1. Make up wildly exaggerated lies. Call the people 
in charge (or in charge of talking to outsiders) and 
ask them if this rumor you’ve heard is true. When 
they correct it, they may inadvertently tell you 
something less extreme which you nonetheless 
needed to know. 
2. Ask their competitors, their critics, their 
enemies, and anyone else who has investigated 
them for leads and ideas. A good source on 
businesses are stock analysts who pick up Wall 
Street gossip. Ask the people in charge about 
what their critics said, without mentioning the 
critics by name. 
3. Find as many people as you can who work in 
the organization, and talk to them all, even those 
who annoy or intimidate you. Ask all your friends 
if they know anyone. Ask each person if they 
know others. Be honest but mild about who you 
are and why you’re there. If they won’t talk to 
you, be gentle but persistent until they agree to 
say something, if only to get rid of you. Ask each 
person about what the others said. 
4. Be considerate of the feelings of the people 
whom you interview. If you have time, tell them 
you will call to check the facts before your final 
report (and do). If your consideration shows, they 
will tell you more. Agree to keep sensitive stuff 
off the record if they specifically ask you to, but 
ask someone else to confirm it, without saying 
who told you originally. 
5. Read everything you can about the organiza- 
tion before talking to people in person. Particularly 
good are in-house newsletters or magazines, if 
you can get them, and trade journals. Being 
prepared shows in the directness of the questions 
you ask, and shows that you care enough to take 
the trouble. (On the other hand, don’t be afraid 
to ask dumb questions. Trying to prove you’re an 
Pauanatwem 
we 
lelelie 
ie 
816 
0 
(0, 
(01 
@ 
OFS 
p/e16.\5 
8 
10 
8:0 
6 
8. 
0.90 
019) 
6/6 
expert during an interview gets in the way of 
learning what you need to know.) 
6. Don’t ask yes-or-no questions. Ask questions 
that require lengthy answers no matter what the 
answer is. “Why” and “how” questions are best. 
7. Try to hang around a place during its daily 
business and observe. Be genuinely interested in 
the day-to-day affairs, or pretend to be, while 
you’re there. Never interview people over the 
telephone if you can see them in person. 
8. Assume that all your starting assumptions 
will be wrong. 
2 
— Art Kleiner 
A Ninth Way: Make arrangements for followup, 
either by phone or in person, to clarify confusion 
in your notes or your head, to verify titles and 
figures, to get the essential data you forgot to ask 
for despite all your preparation. 
(See The Craft 
of Interviewing, p. 499.) 
— Nancy E. Dunn 
Ce 2 
a rd 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
sy 
se 
Multiple choice continued from last spread 
6. Elias Howe who invented the sewing machine 
and to whom Help is dedicated got really stuck 
part way through inventing the sewing machine, 
because the needle had a hole in the top at the 
dull end because needles always had the hole in 
the top at the dull end but the machine wouldn’t 
sew with it that way and one night he dreamt 
about a bunch of Africans running around with 
spears and all the spears had a hole right in the tip 
and Howe woke up and knew that putting the hole 
in the pointed part of the needle would make the 
sewing machine work and it did. 
continued on next spread 
O 
