ori GARMENTS 
DOWN-FILLED, FOR EXTREME COLD 
ik 
“Brooks Range” — North Face. Simply the warmest, 
most comfortable and most durable parka available for 
sub-zero use. 3” wide inner and outer draft flaps, disc 
velcro cuff and zipper flap closures (no snaps to freeze 
shut), huge hood and handwarmer cargo pockets and 
4” of loft all around. Approximately $195. 
| (“Expedition II'’ — Holubar. Two separate goose down 
layers in an offset position, five pockets, two down insu- 
lated, stretch nylon cuff, waist and hip drawcords, and a 
generous down fill. Approximately $185, including 
hood. Expedition // pants are also available for the 
complete Michelin Man. 
DOWN-FILLED, FOR WINTER USE 
The North Face ‘Serow.” 
Over the compartmentalized 
down-filled inner shell is sewn an outer shell of 65/35 
cloth, a construction leaving no sewn through seams as 
cold spots. 
The finest construction and most consistent 
materials of any similar product. About $120, plus 
$17.50 for the hood. 
Sierra Designs “Inyo.” A heavy-duty windbreaking 
insulator, of similar construction as the Serow with a 
different fit and fewer pockets. 
Large No. 10 zipper, 
60/40 cloth outer shell, reliable stitching. $125, plus 
$16 for the hood. 
Marmot Mountain Works “Gopher.’’ Marmot uses high 
loft (high cost) down, individually hot cuts (high cost) the 
Gore-Tex (high cost) fabric which is sewn entirely by one 
(high cost) seamstress. Seven baffles in the foot, double 
draft tubes, and a “shoulder muff” are also included and 
of questionable worth. At approximately $300 the 
performance vs. cost equation leads this reviewer to 
question the value of this bag. 
Sierra Designs ““Swallowtail."” 
The SD bags include 
several unique functional construction differences which 
add /ittle to the cost of the product. Innovations include 
“tuck-stitch” baffling which leaves no thread on the 
surface to abrade or catch, and longitudinal torso baffles 
which assure full loft over the upper body (no down 
migration to the sides of the bag is possible). SD quality 
of materials varies considerably, however, so be sure to 
check the fabric and down Joft carefully. At about 
$220, this bag rates high. 
JL 
Sie RR 
4 Des 
“CN 
uals actor 
: 
ee 
= 
The North Face “Chamois.” 
Another “basic” bag with 
several effective details such as the top performing 
“Optilon” zipper, oversized draft tube, and thoroughly 
tested materials, plus complete inspection by quality 
control and a full lifetime warranty. At approximately 
$200 this bag will perform as well for a lower cost as 
any of the other bags studied by this reviewer. 
DOWN-FILLED WITH “OTHER THAN DOWN” BOTTOM 
_ 
“Cascadia” — REI. With goose down fill on the top and 
PolarGuard fill on t 
: 
he bottom, this three season bag is 
theoretically advantageous by joining the loft and stuffa- 
bility of down with the lesser compressability of Polar- 
L 
North Face “Sierra” 
Sierra Designs 
“Thinsulate’’60/40 Parka 
DOWN-FILLED 4-SEASON 
BACKPACKER PARKAS 
The North Face “Sierra.” 
The first of the best, and the 
last to hold prices under the $100 mark. Excellent fit 
for freedom of movement, elastic cuffs, double slider 
zipper, highest quality consistent materials and construc- 
tion; lifetime warranty. Available in ripstop or 65/35 
outer fabrics, with optional hood. 
Sierra Designs “Whitney” and “‘Toyabe.” 
Taffeta or 
60/40 outer shells, and very little else different between 
this and The North Face product except a slightly higher 
price. SD also offers a bargain parka “Sierra” for about 
$20 less but of nowhere near the same performance 
or quality. 
Holubar “Ascent.” 
Generously filled and available in 
taffeta or 65/35, this parka offers the same durability, 
protection, and features as the above, with just a bit 
more down. Also available as a kit at about 35% savings. 
POLARGUARD PARKAS 
PolarGuard is a real dog when it comes to garments, both 
because itis difficu/t to style and because it doesn’t launder 
well, Holubar and JanSport offer the most stylish models. 
The North Face offers the best backpacking model. 
THINSULATE PARKAS AND VESTS 
Once again, look to Sierra Designs and The North Face 
for the best value in the field. Sierra Designs was the 
first company to offer a thinsulate parka and they now 
use it to the exclusion of PolarGuard. Sierra offers a wide 
range of styles, including an insulated version of their 
60/40 Mountain parka, designed for all around use from 
the woods to the slopes to around town. 
The versatility 
of thinsulate is rapidly becoming apparent, and the mater- 
ial itself seems to have a superior durability to any 
previously available synthetic insulation. 
(I’ve worn a 
North Face all winter, including night rides on my BMW, 
and have yet to fee/ anything but warm under a layer 
of thinsulate.) 
Guard. My opinion is that this melding of materials 
presents the worst of both. Polarguard will age and 
lose its loft long before the down tires, and the tempta- 
tion to use the bag in a damp environment will lead to 
the failure of the down as an insulator. About $150. 
Stephenson’s Warmlite “Triple Bag.” 
“Five bags for 
the price of one...“ or only slightly more; anyway it’s 
worth it. Stephenson’s engineering background (aero- 
space) has been well appliedto backpacking products, 
and the “triple” proves out. 
The foam or “Down Air 
Mat” bottom beats the down compressability problem, 
the bottoms, sides and the top of the bag are filled 
with the highest quality goose down (750 fill is claimed) 
and the design is pure function. 
The double zipper 
system eliminates the normal cold line which draft flaps 
attempt to inhibit, and lead to the bag’s key: two upper 
layers which can be used either separately or in combina- 
tion to give comfortable sleep in any condition. Wow! 
Stephenson also pioneered, and for years was alone in 
offering, a fitted, attachable vapor-barrier liner (they 
work). From $275 to $460 depending on size and foam 
or down air mat bottom, with $100 worth of options 
available for tropical to snow cave use. 
STEPHENSON TRIPLE BAC 
LISHTWEIGHT CUTE TOP 
TWIcK INNER Toe 
WARM PLUPE FILING 
SOFT 
|. Lox RIPSTO? 
NYLON COV Em 
THICK INNES Tor 
LIGHT BIGHT OUTER TOP 
POLARGUARD FILL BAGS 
There is little of the differentiation of down bags to be 
found among the PG filled product, and so the best 
Strategy seems to be to /ook to the most consistent and 
reputable manufacturers who offer a complete line to 
choose from. For this reason, | suggest looking to The 
North Face or Sierra Designs for your PolarGuard bag, 
for one of the two will offer the appropriate product at 
the best price for whatever requirement you may have. 
= 
NOMADICS 
OUTDOOR GEAR 
Stephenson Warmlite 
Jack Stephenson, an aeronautical engineer, began making 
superior and occasionally radical camping gear more than 
ten years ago. 
| went for it then with one of his incredibly 
light tents (less than half the weight of most competition 
and better in storms) and | have not been sorry. 
His 
sleeping bags are a wonder too. Made with cloth that 
reflects your radiated heat back to you, they feature a 
bottom that includes a built-in mattress, and two tops. 
The light top is good for summer, the heavy one for fall 
and both for winter. Adjustable. 
Expensive. 
Effective. 
And controversial too in some quarters. 
| have found 
Warmlite equipment to be very fine, and the catalog is 
too: Jack and his family are featured, nude, modeling 
the goods, while Jack fills your head with the logic behind 
his designs. Super! (His stuff is available only by mail 
order. No middle men.) 
—J. Baldwin 
Stephenson 
Warmlite 
Catalog 
$3 postpaid from: 
Stephenson 
RFD 4 
Box 145 
Gilford, NH 03246 
9 
Warmlite 2 RS Billee $265 
ie 
27 Warmilites, zipped together 
Triple bags, all full loft with highest quality 750 down 
Girth 
62 
56 
60 
64 
70 
over 70 
Foam bottom $276 $322 $345 $368 $396 
$5.75/in 
DAM bottom 
$333 $385 $408 $431 
$460 $6.85/in 
Includes foam or Down AirMat, pump and sack 
SSSS, Stephenson Super Silver Sleeper, $750 
Extra large bag sack with bag order, $5 
OPTIONS: 
. Net top for tropical use $35 
. Cotton bottom liner for tropic use $20 
Waterproof single sheet top cover $20 
. Waterproof bottom cover, zip on $23 
DAM purchased SEPARATELY without a bag, $75 
- 
Extra thick top, cost is 50% of foam bottom bag price. 
DAWN 
OMe) 0) 6-0 (ee ee 
pte S16) -a We Se) © le 6 fein la o/s aba beice a ale 
: THE RISING SUN 
. 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
ae 
“TI think people with certain kinds of parents can 
recognize each other by the fake limp. ‘Sorry I 
exist, Dad, but I’ll seem incompetent to make 
up for it.’ ” 
425 
O 
