- 
eA oe 
396 
- i 
7 
CMa 
Cer 
1@) 
‘ae 
ITICS 
“ACTICS 
HERE ARE STARTING to be a few 
books on how to politic at the state 
and national level — that’s great — 
but there is zilch about the really important stuff, 
local politics. How do you get on the school 
board? How do you do good things there? How 
do you /ose a mayoral election in a way that’s 
good for the community? County/town relations 
— what are they, how can they be better? How 
can | get the goddamn real estate types that are 
selling Sausalito off of our City Council? 
Write such books. Send them to us. We'll review 
them big. 
—SB 
In Our Own Interest 
Here is the finest operative introduction to the process of 
legislative politics that | have seen. Our political system, 
like our marketplace, is based on an odd mix of cut- 
throat competition and genuine honor. A good political 
idea will not defend itself. Financial clout counts for 
something in lobbying but not as much as savvy and 
integrity. Much of the savvy is here. 
In Our Own Interest 
(A Handbook for the 
Citizen Lobbyist in 
State Legislatures) 
Dorothy Smith 
1979; 137 pp. 
$4.95 Postpaid from: 
Madrona Publishing 
2116 Western Avenue 
Seattle, WA 98121 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
x 
Integrity and professionalism are the cornerstones of 
all fruitful legislative activity. There is no place where 
a person's word is more important, and no place where 
personal integrity is more relied upon and more appre- 
ciated than in the legislature. 
Partisanship is expected at every turn; when the oppor- 
tunity arises, try to take every advantage according to 
the rules. But there is an ““honor of the House” that is 
the very real foundation of processes that must rely, at 
root, on trust and accurate communication. 
The more the citizen seeking change recognizes the reality 
and the strength of the rules by which the game is played 
(and by which he will be judged), the greater the respect 
he will have for the worth of our legislative processes — 
and the greater success he will have in dealing with those 
who are involved in public business. 
e 
Reserve judgment about the people with whom you must 
deal until you have had sufficient personal experience to 
know them. 
If you are wise, you won’t censure those 
who oppose you on specific matters — today’s foe may 
become tomorrow’s colleague. The ability to see your 
opposition in realistic terms is essential to the achieve- 
ment of workable legislative solutions. 
\t is almost 
impossible to come to agreement with an enemy. Com- 
promise with an opponent is possible and often desirable. 
Reaching agreement with a truly hostile antagonist is 
next to impossible. Fight your opponent intelligently. 
But do not hate him. To permit yourself to hate a person 
is, after all, to become to some degree his prisoner. 
a 
How You Can Influence Congress 
A good intro to the subject; gives the basics and some 
extras. 
The material is clearly presented, and examples 
are given throughout, making it easy reading. 
If you‘re 
not interested in lobbying for specific legislation, there 
are chapters on organization building, preparing your 
arguments, your publications, tactics, and hearings, 
which make up about half the book and would be useful 
to anyone doing any kind of grassroots organizing. Not 
just for beginners. 
—William Bitsas 
How You Can 
Bo 
so 
Influence Congress 
g 
(The Complete Book for 
the Citizen Lobbyist) 
George Alderson and 
Everett Sentman 
1979; 360 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
E.P. Dutton and Company 
Two Park Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
a 
Household Store 
R 
= 
e 
Ne 
1. Make your cause respectable. Get scientists, econo- 
mists, prominent local citizens, labor and ethnic leaders 
to speak up for your side. 
2. Make your opponents’ position unrespectable. 
Reveal 
who really benefits from their cause. Try to provoke 
them into “‘blowing their cool.” 
3. Make sure everybody knows your side is the underdog. 
You get more sympathy and help if you‘re seen as 
fighting a good fight against great odds. 
4. Get help from friends in high places. Ask local and 
state politicians to talk to your congressman and to raise 
your issue in friendly local forums, such as the city 
council or county board. 
5. Stay ahead of the opposition. Keep taking the initia- 
tive with interesting tactics that show you've got the facts 
on your side. Don’t be sucked into a role of constantly 
responding to your opponents’ charges. 
6. Show public support through letter-writing campaigns, 
petitions, rallies, etc. Your objective is to make your 
issue so ubiquitous that the congressman hears about it 
everywhere he goes in his district, and gets letters and 
calls about it every day he’s in Washington. 
7. Get help from local VIPs who have special access to or 
credibility with your congressman. These include people 
who have power or money, people who are friends of the 
congressman, people who helped in his campaign, and 
people he respects. Get them to speak to the congresman. 
8. Use all events for your purpose. 
Look ahead to holi- 
days and ceremonial occasions, and plan ways to use them 
in your campaign. 
9. Raise your issue in the election campaigns. Get the 
congressman's opponents to challenge his position, or 
his lack of one. 
10. Build long-term influence by giving the congressman 
opportunities to learn more about your issue and 
to do something about it often, so he will come to 
identify himself with the issue. Praise him when he 
does the right thing. 
“If there's any rule for effective actions, it’s ‘Be 
Creative!’,"’ says Troutman. ‘’Almost any group has a 
person who thinks creatively.’’ Just as an indication of 
the range of possible actions, consider this example: 
Protesting the lack of rat-control measures in poor 
neighborhoods in Washington, D.C., activist Julius 
Hobson threatened to trap large numbers of rats and 
release them in the posh Georgetown residential area. 
He then drove through Georgetown with cages of rats 
atop his car, to make the threat more dramatic. 
The Almanac of American Politics 
Who did what, where, when. For each state and district 
a recent political history; for every Senator and Repre- 
sentative, a profile, ratings by political interest groups 
(who his friends and enemies are), his/her voting record 
on key issues, and federal funds outlaid in his district. 
True inside dope, know your Congressman. 
7 
—Diana Barich 
The Almanac of 
American Politics 
Michael Barone, 
Grant Ujifusa, and 
Douglas Matthews 
1972, 1979; 1055 pp. 
$1 0.95 postpaid from: 
E.P. Dutton and Company 
Two Park Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
California, Twelfth District 
It was only after his first election that McCloskey became 
known as an ultra-liberal Republican. And that was 
really only because of his views on the war; on economic 
issues he has tended to reflect the caution of his upper 
income constituents and their aversion to organized labor. 
sss... 
en————————————————————————————————————a, 
Who Runs Congress? 
Not surprisingly, the answer to the title’s question comes 
in the first few pages: Big Business and Habit. 
The 
medium of Big Business is lobbyists (and that obscene 
new phenomenon, Political Action Committees); and the 
medium of Habit is, well, habit. Since we're all disillu- 
sioned about Congress by now anyway, we have two 
choices. We can give up and ignore national politics (in 
which case this book js still a good read, as fascinating as 
watching an anthill, and it makes you understand why 
all 
those young lawyers in Washington dress and talk and act 
alike). Or we can grit our teeth and dig into lobbying 
ourselves to make something good happen on a big scale. 
In that case, Ralph Nader’s staff people, masters at the 
game, offer the necessary how-to news here. 
This is such 
an un-dreary book it even makes Congress seem interest- 
ing, not merely important. 
—Art Kleiner 
Who Runs Congress? 
Mark Green and 
Michael Calabrese 
1972, 1979; 343 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, |L 60016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Whatever their diversity, the members of Congress are not 
very representative of the American people. Almost one 
third of the Senate are millionaires. Almost half the 
Congress is composed of lawyers, who make up less than 
one-third of 1 percent of the population. Blue-collar 
workers may get to Congress, but usually as tourists 
passing through the guided tours. Women and minority 
groups are, for the most part, severely underrepresented. 
This institution will order over $400 billion of your 
money to be spent this year and use or refuse to use vast 
amounts of your power to affect your way of living and 
our relations with other nations. That is enough 
reason for this book. 
e 
Congress devotes itself to what it was not essentially 
designed to do — running small favors for complaining 
constituents. What Congress /s supposed to do — legislate 
— it does not do well. 
It is the executive that now 
initiates most legislation, and it is the Supreme Court 
that has made many of the important human-rights break- 
throughs in the past twenty-five years — equal education 
for blacks, reapportionment, rights for criminal defen- 
dants, near abolition of the death penalty, the right to 
an abortion. To get major legislation passed often require 
requires a major national trauma: the 1937 and 1962 
drug amendments followed the Elixir and thalidomide 
scandals; President Kennedy's death gave impetus to his 
successor’s civil rights and Medicare achievements. 
Even his opposition to the Vietnam war came from an 
unlikely source: 
his feelings, as a decorated Marine 
veteran, that the war was perverting the Corps and the 
military generally. With a fervor that may only come 
from experience in battle, McCloskey argued against 
unnecessary war and bloodshed, and made as strong a 
case as was made against the Vietnam adventure. 
McCloskey has reason to feel much more comfortable 
in the Republican Party today. He believes strongly in 
the free market economic system, and has no problem 
supporting Republican positions like deregulation of 
natural gas or the Kemp-Roth bill. Much of his legislative 
effort has been concentrated on the Merchant Marine 
and Fisheries Committee, on which he became ranking 
Republican in 1979. McCloskey opposes efforts to sub- 
sidize the U.S. shipping industry — the primary business 
of the Committee — and he successfully led efforts in 
1977 to kill the bill requiring that 9.5% of oil imported 
into the U.S. be shipped in U.S. carriers. McCloskey 
was able to get most Republicans and many younger 
Democrats on his side; against him was organized labor 
and the maritime unions and companies. McCloskey gets 
about 50% voting records from labor and liberal groups — 
far higher than the average Republican, but low enough 
to suggest that he is by no means a Democrat-in-disguise. 
After all the turbulence and expense of his earlier cam- 
paigns, this must seem an easier time for McCloskey. 
He had no primary opposition in 1976 and beat another 
Republican easily in 1978. A Democrat spent substantial 
time and money against him in 1976 and won only 32% 
of the vote; McCloskey won even more easily in 1978. 
The 12th is just about evenly split in presidential contests 
— it gave Richard Nixon in 1972 and Gerald Ford in 1976 
the same 53% — but it seems to be utterly safe for 
McCloskey for the foreseeable future. 
Rep. Paul N. McCloskey, Jr. (R) Elected Dec. 12, 1967; 
b. Sept. 29, 1927, San Bernardino; home Portola Valley; 
Occidental Col., Cal. Inst. of Tech., 1945-46, Stanford 
U., B.A. 1950, LL.B. 1953; Presbyterian. 
Career Navy, 1945-47; USMC, Korea; Deputy Dist. 
Atty., Alameda Co., 1953-54; Practicing atty., 1955-67. 
Offices 205 CHOB, 202-225-5411. Also 305 Grant Ave., 
Palo Alto 94306. 415-326-7383. 
Committees Government Operations 
(5th). Subcom- 
mittees: Environment, Energy, and Natural Resources. 
Merchant Marine and Fisheries (Ranking Member). 
Key Votes 
1) Increase Def Spnd 
AGN 
2) B-1 Bomber 
AGN 
3) Cargo Preference 
AGN 
4) Dereg Nat Gas 
FOR 
5) Kemp-Roth 
FOR 
6) Alaska Lands Protect 
DNV 
7) Water Projects Veto 
FOR 
8) Consum Protect Agcy 
FOR 
9) Common Situs Picket 
FOR 
10) Labor Law Revision 
FOR 
11) Delay Auto Pol Cntrl 
AGN 
12) Sugar Price Escalator 
FOR 
13) Pub Fin Cong Cmpgns 
FOR 
14) ERA Ratif Recissn 
AGN 
15) Prohibt Govt Abrtns 
AGN 
osuemir 
