ID USE 
FARMING PHILOSOPHY 
Seeds, Spades, Hearths, and Herds 
Those few gardeners and farmers left in this country who 
are not direct extensions of corporations eventually come 
to wonder where this agriculture business began and 
where they fit in. Supergeographer Sauer choreographs 
them through prehistory, a// over the planet to trace the 
origins of crop cultivation and domestication of animals. 
He debunks the classical view of hungry hunters and 
gatherers inverting farming during bad years and suggests 
instead it began in cultures of plenty as an extension of 
leisure and even magic. 
—Malcolm Terence 
Seeds, Spades, 
Hearths, and Herds 
(The Domestication of 
Animals and Foodstuffs) 
S 
Carl O. Sauer 
scctt 
1969; 175 pp. 
4 
| 
(2nd Edition) 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
x 
The MIT Press 
mk 
Yr 
28 Carleton Street 
ae 
Cambridge, MA 02142 
yj 
or Whole Earth 
. 
Household Store 
The ancestors of most New World seed plants appear to 
have been attractive weeds. They were not tenacious 
intruders that the cultivator had difficulty in getting rid 
of, nor are they such as grow on trodden ground. They 
were gentle, well-behaved weeds that liked the sunshine, 
loose earth, and plant food of the tilled spaces, and had 
no great root system. Such volunteers, usable by man, 
were first tolerated, then protected, and finally planted. 
The tomato is in part still in the stage of becoming a 
cultivated plant. In many places in Mexico and Central 
America the little cherry tomato is the common form; 
it is not planted, but protected. 
It, in turn, derives from 
wild, inutile tomatoes of northwestern South America. 
e 
The dominant plants of North American agriculture were 
maize, beans, and squashes or pumpkins. These formed a. 
symbiotic complex, without an equal elsewhere. The corn 
Plants grow tall and have first claim on sunlight and 
moisture. The beans climb up the corn stalks for their 
share of light; their roots support colonies of nitrogen- 
fixing bacteria. The squashes or pumpkins grow mainly 
Prone on the ground and complete the ground cover. . 
. 
with few exceptions, all three were grown together. By 
long cultivation varieties of all were selected, able to 
grow to the farthest climatic limits of Indian agriculture. 
Civilized man has not extended the limits of any of them 
and has introduced only a few crops that succeed under 
more extreme climates. 
. 
. The Hopi, living in a land of 
little and late rain, of short summers and cold nights, depend 
on them and by them have maintained themselves and their 
fine and gentle culture, our civilization lacking the skills to 
match theirs for this harsh environment. 
Plants, Man & Life 
The classic on the domestication of plants, by a damned 
interesting man. 
Bless him, he annotates his bibliography. 
Centers of diversity for cultivated plants, according 
to Vavilov. 
Plants, Man & Life 
Edgar Anderson 
1952, 1967; 251 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
University of 
California Press 
2233 Fulton Street 
Berkeley, CA 94720 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Few Americans realize how completely our American 
meadow plants came along with us from the Old World. 
In our June meadows, timothy, redtop, and bluegrass, 
Old World grasses all three, are starred with Old World 
daisies, yarrow, buttercup and hawkweeds. The clovers 
too, alsike and red and Dutch, all came from the Old 
World. Only the black-eyed Susans are indigenous. An 
informed botanist viewing such a June meadow may 
sometimes find it hard to point out a single species of 
plant which grew here in pre-Columbian times. 
r) 
Amaranths are a dump-heap plant par excellence, and are 
common in barnyards, middens, and refuse dumps through- 
out the world. The ancient Aztecs ina sort of pagan 
communion ceremony mixed the popped seeds with 
human blood, molding the mess into the shape of a god 
which was sacrificed on the altars and then passed around 
to be eaten. 
Land & Life 
The work of Carl O. Sauer is a rich guide, and a continual 
source of stimulation for Anyman’s journey into the 
American Past. For over fifty years Dr. Sauer has been 
providing us with a series of incredibly compact and skill- 
fully rendered ‘portraits’ of the forgotten peoples of the 
New World — Indians, proto-Indians and back woods Whites 
— the people, it now seems, who have much to teach us 
about living here in balance with the American Earth. 
An historical geographer by training, and a man who has 
made many important contributions to the new social and 
environmental sciences — in short, a scholar’s scholar — 
Dr. Sauer nonetheless writes clearly, and with great 
precision — a fact that has not been lost on some of the 
more important poets of our time. 
Land & Life is a se/ec- 
tion of Dr. Sauer’s ‘portraits’, and can be easily slipped 
into your bookshelf right between the work of Basho 
& Lao Tsu. 
—Robert Callahan 
Land & Life 
: 
Car! O. Sauer 
AND & LIFE 
1963, 1974; 435 pp. 
L™ 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
University of 
California Press 
2223 Fulton Street 
Berkeley, CA 94720 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
LPAI 
VP 
OIME 
TFT 
YAISIES 
b 
e 
Dispersed living, the isolated family home, became most 
characteristic of the ‘“Northern’’ folk on the frontier. 
In Europe nearly everyone had lived ina 
village or town; 
in this country the rural village disappeared or never 
existed. Our farmers lived in the “country’’ and went to 
“town’' on business or pleasure. The word “‘village,” 
like ‘“‘brook,’’ was one that poets might use; it was strange 
to even our western language. Land was available to the 
individual over here in tracts of a size beyond any holdings 
he might ever have had overseas. The village pattern was 
retained almost only where religious bonds or social 
planning prescribed living in close congregation. 
Under natural conditions given a specific climate, vegeta- 
tion, relief, and rock structure — there will be a charac- 
teristic soil as to depth and profile for any position on 
a slope. Soil and slopeare in genetic relationship. Neither 
is static. Both naturally are changing very slowly. In the 
majority of cases the slope gradually grows less, and the 
soil on it weathers more deeply because it formsa 
bit 
more rapidly than it is removed at the surface. Soil form- 
ation and removal are either balanced, or formation 
exceeds removal; or, more rarely, removal exceeds forma- 
tion. Soils develop slowly by weathering. The mechanic- 
ally comminuted rock flour of our glacial lands has 
acquired approximately optimum characteristics in the 
course of about 25,000 years. This does not include 
weathering that starts from solid rock, but from the 
crushed materials of the glacial mill. 
The One-Straw Revolution 
By changing one of the grasses in his rice fields to another 
variety, 
Fukuoka started a process that brought his part 
of the ecosystem into a natural balance. 
On his farm he 
gets yields comparable to traditional farms but without 
plowing; he lets nature do the work. He simply plants 
and harvests — pretty revolutionary. 
The book describes 
his method. See also Permaculture One and Permaculture 
Two, p. 83. 
—Rosemary Menninger 
The One-Straw 
Revolution 
(An Introduction to 
Natural Farming) 
Masanobu Fukuoka 
1978; 224 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
Rodale Books 
33 East Minor 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Near a small village on the island of Shikoku in southern 
Japan, Masanobu Fukuoka has been developing a method of 
natural farming which could help to reverse the degenerative 
momentum of modern agriculture. Natural farming requires 
no machines, no chemicals, and very little weeding. Mr. 
Fukuoka does not plow the soil or use prepared compost. 
He does not hold water in his rice fields throughout the 
growing season as farmers have done for centuries in the 
Orient and around the world. The soil of his fields has been 
left uncultivated for over twenty-five years, yet their yields 
compare favorably with those of the most productive Japa- 
nese farms. 
His method of farming requires less labor than 
any other. 
It creates no pollution and does not require the 
use of fossil fuels. 
—Larry Korn, Introduction 
e 
In growing vegetables in a “‘semi-wild” way, making use of a 
vacant lot, riverbank or open wasteland, my idea is to just 
toss out the seeds and let the vegetables grow up with the 
weeds. 
| grow my vegetables on the mountainside in the 
spaces between the tangerine trees. 
The important thing is Knowing the right time to plant. 
For the spring vegetables the right time is when the winter 
weeds are dying back and just before the summer weeds 
have sprouted.* 
For the fall sowing, seeds should be 
tossed out when the summer grasses are fading away and 
the winter weeds have not yet appeared. 
It is best to wait for a rain which is likely to last for sev- 
eral days. Cut a swath in the weed cover and put out the 
vegetable seeds. There is no need to cover them with 
soil; just lay the weeds you have cut back over the seeds 
to act as a mulch and to hide them from the birds and 
chickens until they can germinate. Of course the weeds 
will come right back, but by that time the vegetables will 
already have a head start.* Usually the weeds must be cut 
back once or twice, but sometimes even this is unnecessary . 
Where the weeds and clover are not so thick, you can 
simply toss out the seeds. The chickens will eat some of 
them, but there are many which will germinate. 
If you 
plant in a row or furrow, there is a chance that beetles or 
other insects will devour many of the seeds. They walk in 
a straight line. Chickens also spot a patch which has been 
cleared and come to scratch around. 
It is my experience 
that it is best to scatter the seeds here and there. 
* This method of growing vegetables has been developed 
by Mr. Fukuoka by trial and experiment according to his 
local conditions. Where he lives there are dependable 
spring rains, and a climate warm enough to grow vege- 
tables in all seasons. Over the years he has come to know 
which vegetables can be grown among which weeds and 
the kind of care each requires. 
In most parts of North America the specific method Mr. 
Fukuoka uses for growing vegetables would be impractical. 
It is up to each farmer who would grow vegetables in the 
semi-wild manner to develop a technique appropriate to 
the area from within his or her experience with the land 
and the natural vegetation. 
