by Ray Jason 
F YOU ARE A FREE SPIRIT with a penchant 
for performing, then street entertaining could 
provide you with an actual vocation in an age 
that usually offers only jobs. You’ll get to 
work out of doors in the fresh air and sunlight. 
You'll be unharried by bosses and unconcerned 
with timeclocks. Asa busker you'll be the essential 
democrat — of the People, by the People, and for 
the People. You'll be adding to the festiveness of 
your community, helping to deflate the rapidly 
rising cost spiral of the entertainment industry, 
and liberating your fellow citizens from their T.V. 
addiction. In the eyes of some folks you will be 
nothing but a show-off and a free-loader, but in 
the eyes of others you may very well become a 
minor celebrity and a folk hero. Here are some 
tips to get you started. 
Is your talent too tiny? 
Ideally, the aspiring street performer should have 
an act that is really special. But if it is not extra- 
ordinary it should at least be good. However, 
due to the deceptive nature of subjectivity, this 
is sometimes difficult to determine. So just apply 
Jason’s Threefold Test: 
1. Do the people stop to watch your act? 
2. Do they applaud and laugh? 
3. Do they put money in the hat? 
If yes, proceed. 
Wanted: Street Xylophonist 
Perhaps you’re wondering whether your particular 
specialty would be successful in a sidewalk venue? 
Well, here’s a listing of all of the acts that I can 
recall seeing in my nine years on the streetcorners. 
It should clearly illustrate how vast the range of 
possibilities open to aspiring street performers is. 
Acrobats, actors, bagpipers, bellydancers, bluegrass 
musicians, children’s theatre groups, classical 
musicians, clowns, conga drummers, country and 
western serenaders, dixieland jazz bands, escape 
artists, fiddlers, fireaters, folksingers, hammered 
dulcimer players, human anvils, human juke boxes, 
javelin twirlers, jug bands, jugglers, magicians, mar- 
ionette manipulators, mimes, mind readers, modern 
dancers, one man bands, opera singers, organ 
grinders, pick-up truck pianists, poets, political 
theatre troupes, punch and judy shows, puppeteers, 
rock ’n roll bands, rollerskating accordionists, 
singers, snake charmers, stand-up comics, steel 
bands, strongmen, tap dancers, tightrope walkers, 
trained dog acts, unicyclists, and vibraphonists. 
The jug band plays the Opera House (steps). 
So where should you take your xylophone if you 
want to start regaling audiences? There are certain 
standard locations, but like all other aspects of 
street performing this is an area that is open to 
personal experimentation. The usual spots in- 
clude: parks, crafts fairs, shopping malls, flea 
markets, commercial districts, theatre lines, civic 
plazas, transportation terminals, college campuses, 
pedestrian malls, and county fairs. 
Commercial districts are noontime venues. Your 
clientele is mostly businessmen, and secretaries on 
their lunch breaks, so you'll need to do short, 
walk-by acts. Civic plazas around city halls, 
museums and opera houses usually abound in 
row after row of steps which can be easily utilized 
Ray Jason 
Read about street juggler Ray Jason in the Rising Sun 
Neighborhood Newsletter on p. 61. A nine-year veteran 
of the asphalt, he is a patriarch of San Francisco and 
American street performing. 
This year he juggled his way 
around the world. 
—SB 
as natural amphitheatres. Transportation termi- 
nals include subway stations and ferry docks. 
Greyhound bus terminals are only recommended 
if you want a lot of recycled chewing gum in 
your hat. College campuses work best at noon- 
time somewhere near the Student Union where 
everyone goes for their midday refreshment. 
Short is Beautiful 
How long should your act be? Well, the secret to 
making a moderately comfortable living as a 
street performer is to fill the hat with dollar 
bills. It takes an awful lot of quarters to make a 
living. So you should try to develop an act that is 
long enough and good enough to merit a green- 
back but not so long that people leave because 
they are tired of standing. So if you have an act 
with a beginning and an end, 20 to 30 minutes 
is a good time frame. If you have a walk-by act 
where people listen to a couple of tunes, drop 
something in the hat and then move along, you’d 
do best to play fairly continuously and only take 
breaks when exhaustion warrants it. 
Always standing room only 
Crowd gathering techniques fall into three main 
categories: Noise — whistles, drums, trumpets, 
etc. Verbal — ballyhoo, bluster, or courteous 
enticements. 
Visual — outrageous costumes, 
mechanical mimes standing perfectly still, or 
grown men juggling rubber chickens. 
Silent offerings preferred 
The single most important factor in getting people 
to donate generously is to make ’em laugh. When 
making your hat pitch do it humorously. For in- 
stance while innocently and imploringly holding 
your hat you might say, “If you can give — give. 
If you can’t give — don’t give. But, please, what- 
ever you do — don’t TAKE!” 
Some performers actually walk amongst the audi- 
ence passing their hats, others stand in one place 
cradling it in their hands and others just leave it 
in a conspicuous spot. The San Francisco Mime 
Troupe used to surround their crowd, thus lessen- 
ing the chance for the people in the back to escape 
without contributing. 
You will enhance your chance of getting dollar 
bills if you wave one around and make a joking 
reference to it such as, ‘““Don’t forget — whenever 
possible I do prefer SILENT OFFERINGS!” 
Sergeant Friday, I presume... 
At some point the police will probably hassle you. 
The usual charges are begging, disturbing the 
peace, and obstructing the sidewalk. (I totally 
support the vigorous enforcement of this last 
infraction. Dozens of times I’ve watched street 
acts fail to control their crowds, thus forcing 
people to walk in the street. I’ve yet to see a per- 
former who was worth getting hit by a truck for.) 
You need not fear any rat-infested dungeons. In 
fact, you’ll probably spend only a few hours in 
jail, so resist the temptation to view yourself as 
a martyr. Instead, try to look at it as comic 
theatre. Your ability to remain calm will both 
benefit you and baffle the police. 
District Attorneys rarely prosecute street per- 
formers. 
Usually the charges are dismissed before 
they ever reach the Court. However, if you ver- 
bally abuse the arresting officer, your predicament 
becomes much more serious and the D.A. might 
press charges. At the time of the confrontation 
there will be a strong temptation to wise-off to the 
gendarmes because your audience will probably 
be vehemently defending you. Such support is 
certainly pleasing, but don’t forget that these 
fans are in no real jeopardy, and remember that 
they will not offer to take the rap and go to jail 
for you. As much as this outcry bolsters your ego 
it actually only aggravates the situation. 
I’ve 
never heard of an instance where the taunts and 
protests of the crowd kept the police from hauling 
the busker off to the station house. 
Here are some practical suggestions you might find 
helpful. Try to get some names and phone num- 
bers of people in the audience to use as possible 
witnesses. Keep a couple of dimes stashed in your 
socks for jailhouse phone calls. Carry the phone 
numbers of a good bail bondsman and a lawyer. 
Keep small index cards in your wallet with the 
names and phone numbers of three friends on 
them. Give these cards to folks in the audience, 
instructing them to keep calling these accomplices 
until they reach one. Prearrange with the people 
listed on the cards the things they will have to do 
to hasten your release. 
If you want to vigorously protest your arrest and 
make yourself a test case, you will need the power 
of the press behind you. This shouldn’t be too 
difficult if you have a fairly good act, because such 
a story makes good copy. The little guy versus 
harsh, recalcitrant authority always arouses the 
interest and ire of readers. You'll also need a good 
lawyer. 
If you can’t afford such counsel, try the 
Public Defender’s office or the American Civil 
Liberties Union. 
Aftermy first arrest my lawyer dressed me in a 
convict’s costume, complete with ball and chain, 
and sent me back out to my. corner to perform my 
juggling act. Both the major newspapers and 
several T.V. stations reported this, and the story 
generated so much support and sympathy that it 
became very difficult for them to prosecute me. 
The charges were dismissed. 
For my finale... 
In conclusion I should say that basically street 
performing is a fun way to make a living. How- 
ever, it also has some noble results. 
It can help 
undermine almost everything that is evil in 
America: consumerism, waste, bigness, greed, 
energy gluttony, distrust, impersonalness, despair, 
disparity of wealth, etc. 
It’s not going to topple 
the system, but combined with other private, 
personal and heartfelt commitments it can have 
a tremendous impact. 
® 
| 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
My 
Paul Newman is color blind and can’t tell his 
eyes are blue. 
e 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
Suggs the Mime 
fr “iit 
