St 
erRECT 
¢ 
SYAGOMAATED 
5 
Lo | praccessTeD 
Tom CAARITY 
The Joy of Soaring 
One of the hardest things in making a how-to book 
is focussing on essentials. However essential they may 
be to the reader-beginner, they ‘re old hat to the writer, 
who is naturally far more interested in fascinating 
details, recent discoveries, personal ideas, etc. 
This 
official instruction manual book is a masterpiece of 
essence portrayal — the fundamental joys and funda- 
mental techniques of soaring. One by-product is that 
it ages comfortably into classic-hood with no need for 
fussy new editions all the time. Essences are stable, 
conservative things. 
A book that makes you want to fly, moving to the 
moving air, quiet and alert as a hawk. 
—SB 
The Joy of Soaring 
(A Training Manual) 
Carle Conway 
1969; 134 pp. 
$1 1.95 Postpaid from: 
Aviation Book Company 
P.O. Box 4187 
Glendale, CA 91202 
RIGHT 
¥ 
€ by Dick Fugett 
1966 was a good year for cheap thrills, and the one | 
remember best was picking up a shiny new Citabria at 
the factory. 
| filled up my $6000 airplane with 42 
cents per gallon gas, then me and 371RF headed west 
for home, where we’d learn aerobatics and other fancy 
stuff. The same plane today goes for 25 grand, and the 
gas is $1.50, when you can find 80 octane. 
Eras come 
and go, and that one sure has gone. 
My monthly bible back in those days was Flying maga- 
zine, and the Flying writer who did it for me best was 
some guy named Bach. His stuff always had more juice. 
There were other stories to feed my 
fantasies, like the 
Yale professor who stormed thru the skies in his 2400 
hp F8F Bearcat going from one airshow to another, 
knocking out the fans. 
It was all really very attractive 
to me. 
But tempus fidgeted, the prof clobbered into a hill, 
Richard Bach hatched Jonathan Livingston Seagull, and 
Flying reflected the changes in the aviation scene. 
It’s 
still the slickest mag of all, but it’s going where the 
action is, and that’s the big bucks commercial sector. 
/f you’re looking for a good pilot report on the latest 
model Learjet, or trying to decide how to best spend the 
$10,000 youve budgeted for updating your old navcom 
Soaring 
Ballooning 
Obsessions require magazines. 
Everyone knows that. 
How else can you keep up when leisure and technology 
link up and set off at a brisk gallop? 
Soaring, a trifle staid and official, is the Journal of the 
Soaring Society of America. 
They claim more private 
pilots are interested in soaring since the price of 
fuel went up. 
Ballooning /s quite a handsome magazine (suggesting 
there is a population of armchair balloonists). 
This sport 
has been coming on strong of late. 
You can get a used 
balloon for about $4,000, a spiffy new one for $8,000. 
SB 
Soaring Magazine 
Doug Lamont, Editor 
$23 /year (12 issues; 
includes membership) 
Soaring 
Information Kit 
$3 postpaid 
both from: 
Soaring Society 
of America 
P.O. Box 66071 
Los Angeles, CA 90066 
Ballooning Magazine 
Deke Sonnichsen, Editor 
$15/year (6 issues) 
from: 
Ballooning Federation 
of America 
P.O. Box 66071 
Los Angeles, CA 90066 
e 
The Basic Idea 
The glider’s angle of bank and pitch attitude should be 
fairly well under the pilot's control, and the glider should 
be equipped with a variometer, airspeed indicator and 
altimeter. Thus prepared, the pilot can try his hand at 
thermaling. When the variometer reads up, the pilot 
commences circling, keeping a sharp eye on the instru- 
ments, the attitude of the glider and the position of other 
traffic. After a full turn he will know at what point of 
his circle the lift was best and where it was weakest. 
Mentally, he draws a line through these points, and then 
moves his circle toward the stronger lift to improve his 
rate of climb. When the variometer shows a constant 
rate of climb for a full circle, the glider is perfectly 
centered in the lift, so the rate of climb 
is the best. Oh happy day! 
(It seldom happens.) 
equipment, then Flying has no 
peer. America’s preoccupation 
with high tech, high cost, no 
effort gizmos is as obvious in 
aviation as anywhere else. 
But there are other avenues 
for folks who’d rather fly for 
fun than tax writeoffs. 
= 
Flying 
$15 /year (12 issues) 
Richard L. Collins, Editor 
from: 
Flying 
P.O. Box 2772 
Boulder, CO 80321 
The orthodox method of learning to fly is to head for the 
airport, find a dealer offering flight instruction, and take 
off. With reasonable skill and $1500 - $2000 for finances 
you Il end up with a private license after about 50 hours 
of flight time. A little initiative can open more interest- 
ing paths though. Flying clubs are worth looking into. 
You buy 
in, pay monthly dues, and have a relatively 
cheap plane available, maybe an instructor too. Check 
the bulletin boards at the nearby airports, talk to the 
local pilots, and watch the Aircraft section of the classi- 
fied ads. Put up your own notice if necessary, and 
they'll find you. 
Another route is to buy an old plane, find a low-cost 
instructor, and eliminate the middleman. Because the 
FAA requires an annual inspection of everything that 
flies, old planes can be just as safe as new ones, A ‘47 
Cessna is still held together by the correct number of 
Kit built sailplanes 
AmEagle Corporation, 841 Winslow Court, Muskegon, 
MI 49441. American Eaglet: foam fiberglass wings, 
aluminum substructure, self launching on-board 12 
hp engine. Also Minibat flying wing: foam and fiberglass 
construction. Information $5. 
Bryan Aircraft, Inc., Williams County Airport, Bryan, 
OH 43506. HP-16, RS-15, HP-18: varying metal and 
foam fiberglass construction. Sailplane trailer kits also 
available. Information free. 
DSK Aircraft Corporation, 13161 Sherman Way, 
Department S, North Hollywood, CA 91605. 2 kits: 
BJ-1b Duster or Woodstock: wood construction; self- 
launch engine package planned for Woodstock. 
Infor- 
mation $5 each. 
Marske Aircraft Corporation, 130 Crestwood Drive, 
| 
Michigan City, IN 46360. Pioneer //B, Monarch Ultra- 
light: wood and fiberglass, flying wing configuration. 
Information $5. 
Monnett Experimental Aircraft, Inc., 955 Grace Street, 
Elgin, 1L 60120. Monerai: metal, bonded wings, can be 
self-launch rigged. Kit $3200. Information $2. 
Sailplane Corporation of America, Box 101, Adelanto, 
CA 92301. BG-6, BG-7, BG-12BD, BG-12/16: all wood, 
plans and bulkhead layouts. 
Information $5. 
Rand/Robinson Engineering, Inc., 5842 K McFadden 
Avenue, Huntington Beach, CA 92649. KA-7B 
Motorglider: wood and foam construction. Plans $85. 
Information $1. 
All these designers or manufacturers sell 
plans, which generally run about 
$100 per set, give or take 
a few dollars. 
—John Lee 
nuts and bolts, unlike many 
Chevies and Fords made that year. 
Low-cost instructors are not found at the local Beech- 
craft dealer, but circumstances make them numerous 
none the less. An embarassingly large number of cer- 
tified flight instructors, more than can find jobs, are 
hovering at that stage of existence for no other reason 
than to log enough hours to qualify for an airlines job. 
Head for the airport bulletin boards again, write ‘Have 
Plane, Need Instructor’ on a lot of 3 x 5 cards, and see 
if you don’t get some calls. Larger airports will be more 
productive on this one. But keep one thing in mind — 
you ‘re starting off on a major learning experience, and 
neither the cheapest instructor nor the hottest pilot is 
the guy you want. 
Sift through the possibilities and get 
the best teacher. 
As for the plane, flyable old Cessna 150s start around 
$5000. Figure 100 mph at 5 gph and youve got reason- 
able economy. 
Besides, they’ve virtually quit depreciating. 
Go halves with a friend, get your private license cheap, 
then sell the 150 for $4995 and make a down payment on 
a radio for that $1.8 million, bottom-of-the-line Learjet 
of your dreams. 
Buying and selling used airplanes means Trade-a-Plane. 
It’s been coming out of Crossville, Tennessee with classi- 
fied ads for planes and equipment for more years than | 
can remember. 
It’s an invaluable reference and after 
you ve read a few issues nobody’s going to fake you out 
on what a plane is worth. 
Trade-a-Plane 
$9.50/year (36 issues) 
from: 
Trade-a-Plane 
Crossville, TN 38555 
But before you get to wheeling and dealing and laying out 
cash, there’s another step to consider. Remember the first 
time you ever bought a used car? Ha! Well, if your recol- 
lections cause you to cringe the way mine do, then employ 
some wisdom and avoid another expensive learning experi- 
ence by taking a look at The Aircraft Owner's Handbook. 
Although it’s aimed at the same well-heeled crowd that 
wheels 
= 
Aerobatic 
* 
ines, 
