NEW 
SCIENTIST 
v 
\ 
its 
onauts during Gemini and Apollo space fligh 
\sed by as 
essentially a perfect vacuum, and so the stuff goes in 
every direction, and all radially out from the space- 
craft at relatively high velocity. 
It’s surprising, and 
it’s an incredible stream of . 
. 
. just a spray of spark- 
lers almost. 
It’s really a spectacular sight. At any 
rate that’s the urine system on Apollo. 
Now, when you come to Skylab, it’s a little more 
sophisticated. We tried to get sophisticated before 
that, but it never really worked. But on Skylab, the 
problem was that the medical experiments required 
that we sample all the urine and return all the feces 
because we were trying to make a total metabolic 
analysis. We could no longer dump the urine over- 
board because we had to measure the volume and 
take samples. What we did was to substitute a fan 
for the vacuum, and again use basically the same 
design, that is use a relief tube type of thing, except 
that the differential pressure was supplied by a fan 
which would decrease the pressure inside a bladder. 
You would pool 24 hours worth of urine. Then, 
after 24 hours, once a day, every morning, you 
would measure the volume, shake it up, get it nice 
and homogeneous and then take a 10 ml. sample, seal 
it up and throw the rest down the trash airlock. 
Warshall: 
So each man had his own relief tube? 
AIR OUTLET PORT 
(TO FILTER AND 
BLOWER } 
AIRFLOW HOLES 
FECAL BAG 
HINGED 
SEAT 
FECAL COLLECTION 
RECEPTACLE 
FECAL COLLECTOR EXPLODED VIEW 
Schweickart: So each man had his own relief tube 
and his own collection system, right. On feces, we 
got very clever. Again we designed a plastic bag, but 
in this case, one side of the bag — now let me think 
if | can remember the words there — 
Warshall: Was it like a stopper or something? 
Schweickart: 
Well, one side of the bag had a material 
on it which would pass gas but not liquid. Oh yeah, 
a hydrophylic filter. And that bag, which again was 
something like 12 inches long and say 6 or 8 inches 
in diameter, got pushed down into a receptacle, and 
the receptacle was made of screen, and you drewa 
differential pressure across the bag with a fan so that 
the air flow was out through one side of the bag and 
of course sucked cabin air in through the top of the 
bag. Okay? Now, there was a little seat that folded 
down over the top of the bag and then you sat on 
that little seat. Well, sat... you floated. In fact, you 
strapped yourself to the seat to make a fairly good 
seal there. Then what happened, as you sealed the 
open part of the seat with your rear end, there were 
side vents, circumferential vents, just under the seat, 
which allowed air to flow in from the side, and all of 
these little orifices — circumferential orifices — were 
directed at the exit point of your anus. So the air 
flow now, if you can picture it when the guy was 
sitting on it, the air flow would be in around the 
periphery of the seat, but all directed in little streams, 
like little jets, and then down through the bag and 
out the side of the bottom of the bag, see. So what 
happened then, is you ended up with air flow substi- 
tuting for gravity. And it would cause the bolus, so- 
called, to separate from your anus. Then the air flow 
would carry it down into the major volume of the bag. 
Warshall: 
Kind of floating it in air down there. 
Schweickart: 
Yeah. You just use air and air flow to 
substitute for gravity, and that worked very well. 
Warshall: 
Really? 
Schweickart: Surprisingly. And as a result you were 
able to take care of a defecation with relative ease and 
Dr. Owen Garriott in ‘‘bed,” lightly strapped into his 
sleeping bag. Since his exhaled breath has no reason to 
go anywhere, a fan is required near each sleeper’s face 
to prevent CO» buildup. 
a lot shorter time. So the system worked well. But 
then after you did that, you sort of stuff the bag with 
wiping paper, seal it, then weigh it to get the mass, the 
wet mass, and then put it into a vacuum oven to bake, 
and evacuating all the water. Then you’d stick it in 
the stack with all the other cow pies and bring them 
all home for analysis. So all you got rid of was the 
water. You keep all the solid material. 
Warshall: So you just kept it in the same bag and... 
Schweickart: 
Yeah, you kept it in the same bag, and 
in fact, the vacuum system, the vacuum drying sys- 
tem, used the same port through the side of the bag 
to get rid of the water vapor. 
Warshall: So then you needed only one for the crew, 
you didn’t need one for each person? 
Schweickart: 
Right; only one toilet to colléct the 
solids, but each person had his own relief tube 
for urine. 
Warshall: That’s incredible. 
Schweickart: 
It’s really wild. And you know, people 
say, ‘‘Why don’t you fly women?”’ Well, Jesus, I’d 
hate to think about the plumbing. You know, it’s 
really funny, because a lot of the girls at Purdue asked 
that, “When are you going to take women in the pro- 
gram?” and | always throw that one out, the part 
about the plumbing requirement. We haven’t had the 
proper plumbing in the past. Well, the fact of the 
matter is, we’re designing it into shuttle. | don’t 
know what it looks like, | haven’t looked at any 
of 
the detailed design from Washington here, so | don’t 
know what it looks like, but we are ready for women 
on this one. 
Warshall: A lot of people were wondering what 
happens when you start dumping things into space. 
Like, what happens to the .. 
. do you use toilet 
paper, for instance? 
Schweickart: 
Well, the only thing that gets dumped 
into space is the urine, and that no longer is dumped 
into space, or at least was not dumped during Skylab, 
but that was during the early, Mercury, Gemini and 
Apollo. The fecal matter has always been stored 
on board. 
Warshall: Oh, | see. People have visions of fecal 
matter and urine ruining space. 
Schweickart: No, no. The only thing that is left 
floating around out there is principally water which 
instantly flashes into ice crystals and then subsequently 
under the influence of solar radiation, sublimates and 
ends up in a purely gaseous state and my guess is 
then, | would suspect, I’m not sure the interaction of 
sunlight on the gases at that altitude, but they either 
decay down to the lower atmosphere, or they get 
blown off. I’m not sure which. 
Warshall: So somewhere out in space is just some sub- 
limated water crystals floating around. 
Schweickart: 
Yeah. 
Warshall: 
Well you can see what they were worried 
about. Some day the sun’s rays... blocked out by .. 
. 
Schweickart: 
It’s all stored aboard, so they don’t have 
to worry about it. 
atelerd 
ee 
6.68 
a6 
© 
OF6)e!0 
0 
0.0 
6 
6.0 
06 
66.0 
¢ 
6/0 
6 
7. 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
| 
SPACE 
Warshall: 
Do you use any kind of special toilet paper? 
Schweickart: 
No, not that | know of. There may be 
some flame retardant chemicals put into it just so 
you don’t have any unnecessary flammable materials 
around, but I’m not sure whether that’s the case or not. 
Warshall: So it’s just like any other toilet paper. 
Schweickart: 
It’s basically like any other toilet paper. 
Warshall: 
Is it stuck in the bag and then burned, or.. 
.? 
Schweickart: 
No, it is in the same bag with the fecal 
material, and in the early missions that was a plastic 
bag that you mixed in a disinfectant or actually an 
anti-gas, oh, what’s the word | want, | guess disin- 
fectant would be the best word, which holds down 
the generation of gas, and you mix that disinfectant 
liquid all through the fecal material. You mix it in, 
seal the plastic bag. 
Warshall: How do you get it in there? 
Schweickart: 
Well, it’s in a small, like a ketchup, a 
little plastic container like you find ketchup in in 
restaurants, in a cafeteria or something, it’s like that. 
You tear the slit across the top, being careful not to 
squeeze it so the stuff comes out, and then you drop 
that into the fecal container, and then seal the fecal 
container. Then you squeeze it through the, you 
know, externally, you know, which forces it out of 
the container, and then you mix it by massaging the 
fecal bag. It’s really fun when it’s still warm. 
Warshall: The other thing that I’ve been asked about 
is how your diet affects everything; what you’re 
actually eating; how that actually affects, you know, 
going to the bathroom, and do you do it once a day, 
since you said it took about an hour when you had... 
Schweickart: 
Well, it’s not at all clear how or whether 
the food really has any effect different from what you 
experience down here. The food does, I’m sure, have 
different preservatives and that kind of thing in it in 
order to be able to take it up there in the first place 
and be able to store it for long periods of time and 
that sort of thing. But | don’t think there was any 
consistent observation, and there’s no way to separate 
the effect of the weightless environment or other 
changes, physiological changes that are going on from 
the effect of the food. 
Warshall: 
| mean, the image people have is you’re 
mostly eating out of kind of toothpaste tubes or the 
food is being squeezed out, or something like that. 
Schweickart: That’s a pretty long conversation to 
try and get into, there are all different types, but the 
toothpaste-type tube has never been used in space. 
Well, it was used in early Mercury as a kind of test 
thing, but we have never in fact had toothpaste types 
of pastes or anything like it. It’s always been freeze- 
dried food which you add water to to reconstitute, 
or what are called thermal-stabilized foods, almost 
exactly the same thing you would get in canned 
peaches or pears, that type of foods which you don’t 
need to add water to, or in the case of Skylab, we 
also had about 10-15% of frozen foods, including 
filet mignon, and lobster and roast pork and vanilla 
ice cream for that matter. 
Warshall: And you don’t have to worry about that 
floating out into the space lab? 
Schweickart: 
Well, if | could show you the movies, 
you’d see how we handle it. In some cases, like the 
filet for example, you cut a piece, and as you’re taking 
it off of the fork the main piece of the filet may be 
floating up out of the plate, but you stab it with your 
fork and put it back down in, and if you do it care- 
fully, the surface tension of the gravy will keep it 
in place. 
= 
eee rere eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eseeseseeeeses 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
se 
There isn’t an unknown soldier from Vietnam 
because they identified them all. 
SOs 
David Frost talked to the priest in India who goes 
around all day feeding people and helping very 
sick people and Frost asked him what was the 
worst thing about it and he said the worst thing 
about it was that it was so boring. 
POU 
A 
GZ RGF 
Mage 
Pf 
4 
Sie" A 
IS 
