a 
ee 
Communitas 
This book has been around for a good while, and it’s still 
holding its own as a lucid gathering of the elements to 
think and design with on the subject of community. 
Communitas 
(Means of Livelihood 
and Ways of Life) 
| 
Paul and Percival 
' 
Goodman 
1947, 1960; 248 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
Random House 
Get this book 
back in print! 
A major problem of every intentional face-to-face com- 
munity is its ‘cash-crop,’ its economic role in the great 
society that has no integral way of life but has a most 
integrated cash nexus. Usually the problem is not enough 
money or credit to buy needed mass-produced machinery. 
But let us mention a touching example of a contrary 
problem. The Macedonia (pacifist) community made 
pedagogic toyblocks for cash, and distributed them, at 
- cost of production, to like-minded groups like progressive 
schools; but the blocks became popular and big commer- 
cial outfits wanted a large number. Macedonia was then 
faced with the following dilemma: these commercial 
jobbers would resell at a vast profit; yet if Macedonia itself 
charged them what the market would bear, the commu- 
nity would itself be contaminated by commercialism. 
The Joyful Community 
The person who ought to review this book is Ramon 
Sender, who grew up in a Bruderhof community in New 
England and honors his education there. Ramon is the 
most thorough commune personality I’ve known. A 
consummate tape-music composer and grass-reed 
musician, for years he’s been the gentle fiber of some of 
the wooliest anybody-come communes ever. Did 
Bruderhof give him his skill and his joy? | now believe it. 
Ramon’s out of reach of telephones, so Ili have to make 
my own assertion: This is the best and most useful book 
on communes that’s been written. 
—SB 
Alternative Celebrations Catalogue 
Voluntary Simplicity sort of personally institutionalized, 
the authors of this perennial (now in its 4th edition) 
noticed that a lot of American consumer madness goes on 
around public special occasions — Mother’s Day, Christ- 
mas, Valentine’s Day, etc. When the occasions are made 
more personal and creative, the consumer part not only 
drops away, a feeling of wanting to give help to others 
replaces it. Ideas and encouragement and a thorough 
roster of do-good groups. 
—SB 
Alternative 
Celebrations 
Catalogue 
Alternatives 
Bookstore Staff 
4th Edition 
1973, 1978; 243 pp. 
$5 postpaid from: 
Alternatives 
P.O. Box 429 
Ellenwood, GA 30049 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
How to make the most effective use of this book depends 
on who you are and what you've been up to. If you’re 
one of the growing number who have been actively work- 
ing on ‘‘kicking the commercial habit,” then you may be 
more interested in the material on how to organize your 
city or the articles on giving your town the gift of a food 
cooperative or recycling center. Or the vision of the city 
of the future, of the urban village, or the article on 
voluntary simplicity may be the necessary ingredients 
to stimulate your mind. 
HAVE YOU EVER FELT LIKE THIS? 
We encounter women like her everyday! 
THE HOUSE OF RUTH 
459 Mass. Ave. N.W., Washington, D.C. 
For Homeless/Destitute and Abused 
Women and Their Children 
Since 1976, in the shadow of our Nation's Copitol. The House of Ruth is doing 
something about this narionwide problem! 
—With 6 shelters (2 emergency 
and 4 second stage) 
—Over 120 women helped daily 
—Community suppont through organizations and churches 
—asmumental in drafting legislation on domestic violence 
—Cited by the President's Commission on Mental Health 
Os 0 Model shelter (Oct 1977) 
With a minimum donation of $5. you will receive 0 detolled packet on how You Can stort 
a comporable program in your area as well as help us continue our work! PLEASE HELP! 
| lalate 
eS 
SEND TO: 
% Dr. Veronica Maz, Director 
THE HOUSE 
OF RUTH 9459 Mass. Ave. N. W. 
Washington, D.C. 20001 
Nome 
Address 
a 
eee 
enenenennn 
The Joyful 
OUT OF PRINT 
Community 
Penguin Books 
Benjamin Zablocki 
Get this book 
1971; 537 pp. 
back in print! 
e 
The Bruderhof is a community unlike any | have ever 
seen. When | first visited it in the winter of 1965, | felt 
as if | had wandered in a dream into a medieval village, 
or 
into a world outside of history where neither time nor 
space existed. Never before or since have | felt the 
presence of brotherly love so permeating a place that | 
felt | was breathing it. | have visited close to a hundred 
contemporary communes and studied the history of those 
of the last century. The Bruderhof can be classified with 
neither the new nor the old. 
It is not at all a typical case. 
| present this study not asa key to the understanding of 
some larger social movement, but because.! feel that the 
problems that it raises and the solutions that it offers are 
fundamentally related to our society’s quest for fraternite. 
A most striking thing about the Bruderhof is the people. 
Here are no rugged, bearded Amish peasants transplanted 
from another age but, for the most part, sophisticated, 
middle-class, college-educated individuals. The popula- 
tion is highly diversified in background — ex-millionaires 
and ex-tramps, holders of post-graduate degrees and 
grade-school dropouts, a dozen nationalities, and as many 
religions. Unlike the Hutterians and Amish, the Bruderhof 
has never become a blood-related ethnic group. The 
community still has some of its original members and is 
beginning to raise a fourth generation of ‘abra’ children 
but it has remained constantly open to a stream of new 
members from the outside world. At the time of this 
study, the majority of Bruderhof members were converts 
who had joined within the past ten years. This combina- 
tion of survival through at least three generations with a 
continually open membership policy is a major accomp- 
lishment, often striven for but rarely achieved among 
communitarian groups. 
[SSS 
ee 
ee 
The Farm 
By any measure this is far the most successful of any 
communal effort in America ever. 
It started in San 
Francisco in the late ‘60s as “Monday Night Class” — a 
standing-room-only weekly lecture by one Stephen 
Gaskin. By 1980 it is 1350 people on a huge farm near 
Summertown, Tennessee, pursuing a sort of religion of 
competence. 
They publish, besides the teachings of 
Stephen such as in This Season‘s People, or Mind at Play, 
a number of the best how-to books (reviewed elsewhere 
in this Catalog — Spiritual Midwifery, p. 347, A Coop- 
erative Method of Natural Birth Control, p. 343; The 
Big Dummy’s Guide to CB Radio, p. 523.) and others). 
They have a considerable international do-good effort 
called “Plenty.” 
/ figure you can join ‘em, or get the idea and go do it 
your way, or just be cheered by the Farm’s existence. 
my 
—SB 
| 
o> 
aed 
Mind at Play 
Stephen Gaskin 
1980; 192 pp. 
$1 0 postpaid 
This Season’s People 
Stephen Gaskin 
%, 
1976; 168 pp. 
$3 Postpaid 
Catalog and information 
 @ 
Darwin said that competi- 
free 
tion is what causes the 
all from: 
species to evolve, and 
The Book Publishing Co. 
156 Drakes Lane 
Summertown, TN 38483 
that theory was taken 
over by businessmen as a 
justification for:power 
politics and power 
economics. 
But at the 
Saree. 
eS. 
a6 
6.6 
6 0 
(ese 
€ 6 ee 
7s 
0.6 
6 
010 
6.08 
66 
@ 
6.0 
€- Communities Journal 
Put out by the accomplished Twin Oaks Community 
(80 people on 500 acres and a $500,000/year hammock 
business), this is the only survivor of the plethora of 
commune periodicals of a decade ago. 
/t survived on its 
own perseverance and its value — encouragement and 
advice to other communers. 
—SB 
Communities 
(Journal of Cooperative 
Living) 
Mikki Wenig, Editor 
$7.50 /year (5 issues) 
from: 
Communities 
Box 426 
Louisa, VA 23093 
For many of us, the early 
‘70s allowed us to dream 
and taught us to struggle 
and to fight against some- 
thing: anti-war, anti- 
draft, anti-institutions 
and anti-establishment. 
The struggles were pain- 
ful but clear; it was one 
thing to demand ‘health care is a right; not a privilege,’ 
but quite another when we were confronted with the 
reality of actually providing health services. 
Free clinics, 
alternative institutions, community controlled health 
centers sprang up by the hundreds throughout the 
country. 
Professionals worked with community people 
to bring patient care back to the forefront of medicine. 
Alternative health care became associated with such 
things as collective decision making, hippies, wholistic 
health, relaxation techniques, herbal medicines — often 
serving the very groups of people most alienated from the 
main stream of America. By the mid ‘70s many of these 
institutions, caught in the squeeze between economic 
survival and the refusal or inability to compromise to the 
excessive demands of public funding, were forced 
to close. 
The Fair Haven Clinic also began as an alternative — as an 
alternative to the big city hospitals which included long 
waits, high expenses and the frustrations of fragmented 
care, People were asking for a health center to call their 
Own, a place they could afford to go when they were sick, 
a place that would treat them with dignity. The Clinic 
began seeing increasing numbers of families in the early 
years with problems such as sore throats and stomach 
aches and requests for basics such as family planning, 
pre-natal care, immunizations and care for their chronic 
problems such as hypertension and diabetes and arth- 
ritis. Much of the work was outreach work, and helping 
people to get appointments and to get better housing and 
welfare assistance. 
It is more important to get heat in 
an apartment than to continue to treat a variety of 
respiratory complaints, or to help a family move to a new 
apartment than attempt to ‘cure’ lead paint poisoning. 
e 
The Rainbow Gathering Caravan is planned to begin in 
the Northwest on the 3rd of June and head for the ‘80 
Gathering in West Virginia. Joining with others there, 
the caravan will make its return trip through South 
Dakota to support the Black Hills Alliance. This Alliance 
is composed of traditional Indian and AIM People, and 
white ranchers, and anti-nuclear activists planning to stop 
the scheduled depletions and contamination of the area’s 
water. The Alliance was formed to protect the irreplace- 
able beauty of the Black Hills area from becoming what 
has been termed a “‘national sacrifice area.’’ 
a 
same time that Darwin published, a fellow 
named Kropotkin also published, and everything that he 
published says that cooperation is how animals make it. 
He points out that there aren’t any more sabre-toothed 
tigers, but the cockroach has lived unchanged for a 
hundred and thirty-six million years. 
If the dirt in a can of worms gets dry, the worms all craw! 
up close together to share what moisture they have. 
It 
seems that if a can of worms can cooperate when the 
earth gets dry, mankind ought to learn to cooperate too. 
If you're going to say we’re all One, let’s give up compe- 
tition at that level of food and life and death and housing, 
and things like that. 
—This Season’s People 
eeoeceeceee eee eee 
see 
ese 
ee eee 
ee eeeee 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
From the February, 1979 Atlantic about Lyda 
Masterkova, exiled Russian artist. “In Paris she 
has seen many films without knowing the language 
on the sound track. When she talked to people 
who had seen the same films and understood the 
dialogue, ‘I was surprised that they had missed 
some very important details that I had seen. I 
think the word is a signal that limits the horizon 
and breaks continuity of thought.’ ” 
— quote from the article “Alone Abroad” 
by Anthony Astrachan 
+e EME 
= 
a 
‘COMMUNES 315. 
