Direction of Grain 
Angle of Strike 
lad Once you get to seriously considering a piece of 
land go to the County Assessor's office to find 
out what the County knows about it. They will 
have records showing what was paid the last time 
the property was bought and when the sale took 
place. They also will have maps showing who your 
neighbors are and where they can be reached. /f 
you're trying to find the owner of a piece of land, 
that’s the way. (Incidentally, wandering around in 
pretty country falling in love with various sites 
is no way to get land. 
/t always either belongs to 
the government, who won‘t sell, or some guy who 
won't sell.) 
Bear in mind there is a rural land boom going on. 
With prices to match. Stay away from developers 
and their prices. They buy a big hunk cheap and 
sell little hunks dear. They and the neighbors 
they’// get you are a pain in the ass. 
When you buy 
land in a place and start living 
there, you become a citizen of the county and 
state. Don’t be surprised if the other citizens are 
interested in you. Wouldn’t you be? 
—SB 
Brunton Pocket Transit 
Great for rough topographical mapping necessary for 
planning and laying out water systems, roads, you 
name it. 
Basically a high quality sighting compass with 1° gradua- 
tions, it has an integral clinometer for vertical angles 1° 
to 90° with a vernier reading to 
10 minutes. 
Very rugged. 
Hand-held, it is hard to make use of its full capabilities, 
so there is a ball and socket head available for use with a 
tripod or Jacobs staff. The Brunton is available graduated 
in either quadrants or degrees, and with or without 
induction damping, and in waterproof and digital 
readout models. 
—Fred Richardson 
Brunton Pocket 
Transit 
$1 24.75 wio damping 
$128.75 with 
induction damping 
Catalog or 
instruments from: 
Brunton Company 
620 East Monroe Ave. 
Riverton, WY 82501 
Building Stone Walls 
There’s a lot to be said for stone walls, but this modest 
book doesn’t say it. Just good pictures explained by the 
terse, New England traditional few words. Especially 
good in that a wide variety of stones are utilized, not 
just flat ones. (More on stone walls, p. 230.) 
-—_ 
—J. Baldwin 
ronan 
Building Stone Walls 
| 
mt 
ari { DING 
John Vivian 
BUL FONE 
1975, 1979; 112 pp. 
y WALL? 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
; 
Garden Way Publishing 
; 
) 
Charlotte, VT 05445 
{ 
; 
x 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
SPLITTING ROCK 
Angle of Dip 
The Earth Manual 
Just like the man says: 
Between well-trimmed suburban lawns and the vast 
regions of mountain wilderness, there are millions of 
patches of land that are semi-wild. They may be wood 
lots, small forests, parks, a farm’s “’back forty,” or even 
an unattended corner of a big back yard — land touched 
by civilization but far from conquered. This book is 
about how to take care of such land: how to stop its 
erosion, heal its scars, cure its injured trees, increase its 
wildlife, restock it with shrubs and wild flowers, and 
otherwise work with (rather than against) the wildness 
of the land. 
Perna 
A whole book of gentle 
advice and easily- 
absorbed wisdom. 
—Peter Warshall 
The Earth Manual 
Malcolm Margolin 
1975; 190 pp. 
$10 postpaid from: 
Houghton Mifflin Co. 
Wayside Road 
Burlington, MA 01803 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
By slowing down the flow of water, you reduce the 
amount of damage it can do, and you very spectacularly 
reduce the amount of silt it can carry. 
If there is lots of 
silt suspended in the water, once you slow the water 
down, most of the silt will be dropped — thus building 
up the bottom of the gully again. 
The principles of check dam architecture. 
There are 
many possible designs and materials for building check 
dams, but whichever one you choose must adhere to 
certain architectural principles of check dam construction. 
HEAD-TO-TOE ALIGNMENT. The most effective way 
of building check dams is to build them in a series where 
the base of the upper dam is on a level with the top of 
the lower dam. This will eventually stabilize the whole 
gully bottom and will create a series of steps or terraces. 
SMALLNESS. ‘The bigger they are, the harder they 
fall’ applies particularly to check dams. 
the check dams should be no more than about two feet 
high. Anything much higher than two feet will necessi- 
tate anchors, deadmen, and other retaining-wall features. 
Several small dams are far more effective and easier to 
build than a few big dams. 
DIGGING IT IN. The dam must be dug into the walls 
of the gully, not just laid genteelly up against them. 
Unless the dams are dug far enough in, water will sweep 
around them. 
NOTCHING. A notch is a place where the water can 
flow over the dam. This is essential. Without one, the 
silt builds up behind the dam, the water flows on top of 
the silt, and instead of being led through the notch, it 
may start eating away at one of the slopes. 
Eventually, 
it may make a new channel around the dam. 
I’ve seen 
many erosion-control dams standing proudly and nobly 
on dry land while gullies flowed merrily around them. 
APRON. Once the silt builds up behind the dam, the 
water flows through the notch like a waterfall. You'll 
need an apron to catch it before it digs out a pool and 
undermines the dam. The easiest apron is a bed of 
stones where the water can simply knock itself out 
and flow tamely to the next check dam. 
Moving the Earth 
The beauty of this tome is that it does not stop after 
postulating optimum conditions like a “long enough /ever 
and a firm place to stand.”” After suggesting ways to clear 
land, remove tree stumps, or lay out an access road using 
rented machinery like dozers and dump trucks, it goes 
on to explain many other ways to get it done when the 
“proper” equipment is not available. Most conceivable 
snafus are dealt with. Not just how to use a dozer so it 
doesn’t turn over, and rig a winch so it doesn’t snarl; but 
how to get your dozer back on its treads without calling 
the AAA, and how to unsnarl your winch. All is ex- 
plained in text and again 
in eminently understand- pgs 
able drawings. 
—Alan Kalker 
Moving the Earth 
(The Workbook 
of Excavation) 
Herbert L. Nichols, Jr. 
1955, 1976; 1760 pp. 
$40 postpaid from: 
North Castle Books 
212 Bedford Road 
Greenwich, CT 06830 
For most gullies, 
Rubglisle 
wen 
ee 
COTM 
HH 
ETE 
CCHO 
CHE 
TH 
TCH 
HEHE 
OHOTHH 
ECHL 
OHH 
HBC 
CCC 
ROO 
RHO 
OO 
RO 
Ce 
LAND USE> 
RURAL LAND 
The simple life 
| have this persistent fantasy of moving to a city, getting a 
} 
small, white-walled studio apartment, and living with 
complete freedom. ‘The simple life’ | call it, cutting down 
; 
to essentials: 
a single bed, comfortable chair, desk, type- 
writer; a small kitchen, heat that just turns on, a toilet that 
flushes, hot running water, as much as | want. 
In my fantasy, 
| stride confidently down city streets, marveling at the 
pleasures of anonymity: thousands of people who don’t 
know me and whom I'll never know. There’s a library and 
bookstores with everything !|‘ve ever wanted to read; concerts, 
bars, and poetry readings. 
!n my apartment, the phone never 
rings and for a few months, | don’t go to any meetings at all. 
Sitting in city apartments, picturing my bliss at such a life 
and jealously envying my friends, | tell them about my 
feelings. And they laugh or are shocked, because of course 
everyone knows the country is where you go for peace and 
freedom. And besides, | have left out earning a living, men 
on street corners, going nowhere alone at night, ever. 
| 
have forgotten | am a woman. 
In the country, everything is personal; personalized. 
| am 
connected to all the life around me, and that’s probably how 
things should be, but it asks more, takes more from me to 
live that way. 
| am responsible for my own survival, for heat, 
food, water, shelter. 
| have fifty-nine animals dependent on 
me for their survival too; and like a good pioneer woman | 
feed bottles to kids three times a day, five months out of 
every year. There’s at least two meetings a week, and some- 
times four. 
In a small community, there’s only so many 
people to do what needs to be done. 
| don’t pick who I'll 
work with, cause there’s no choosing to do, and sometimes 
| am frustrated and lonely. The man at the post office, the 
woman at the store, my neighbor, a friend up the road, all 
know me and a good deal about my life, as | know about 
theirs. We have few secrets and a good deal of conversation. 
The price of land payments and taxes and animal feed and 
kerosene and truck parts comes to at least as much as a city 
life, and I‘ve always worked another job off the farm to pay 
for it. For a sure laugh around here, all you have to say is 
“come to the country and lay back and relax.” 
| don’t suppose I'd really trade, or not for long. I’m always 
saying I'll go to the city next month, when the kids are 
weaned, the sheep sheared, this issue of the magazine done 
. and | never get there. But once in a while the crazy 
writer in me gets desperate and even dreams nostalgically of 
cockroach-ridden, bath-down-the-hall, cheap downtown 
hotels — anyplace where | can be alone and responsible to 
no one and no thing but myself. 
| guess | just want to say that, for me, the grass sometimes 
looks greener in Golden Gate Park. 
—Sherry Thomas 
Country Women, Dec. ‘76 
oO 10) 6m: 06, OPUS 6, CEES 4 
9,10 0.0.0 O;:0 10) BLU C.e 6'0,\6. 0. 8 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
Some of us believe this is a free country and the 
rest of us believe it should be, but people without 
cars and without money, old people, poor people 
and children are prisoners of this town, whatever 
town they’re living in, of whatever block they’re 
on, and the only thing that frees them without 
trying to sell them something they can’t buy is 
the library and if the library ain’t close because 
the branch got closed or it ain’t open because they 
cut back the hours, what you’ve got is a bunch of 
dreamers stuck with 4 walls and a TV set while 
high city officials who deferred the raise on their 
$40,000 a year salaries until next year for 
economy and closed branches of the dream and 
cut back hours of the dream for economy are 
going to the latest movies and the opening of the 
Civic Opera and cocktail parties with their friends 
for their entertainment and never dreaming of 
people who need dreams because they don’t know 
what it’s like to dream. There are always gonna 
be people who know that this block and this city 
aren’t what they should be and if you don’t let 
them have a library to see other ways that other 
places are and dream another way for this place, 
they are either gonna blow this way and this place 
to hell with righteous anger and dynamite or they 
are gonna give up and let it rot while they watch 
TV forever to see things they can’t buy and don’t 
want and you won’t have nobody or nothing to 
collect your $50,000 a year from. But you can’t 
believe that can you? You were never one for 
dreaming. You always just did the assignments 
and minded your own business and look how far 
it’s got you. Well, seems like people who believe 
in doing something besides the assignment need to 
kick the asses of the opera goers to make them 
keep one of the few miracles we've got and cheap 
at twice the price. 
& 
dat =. ie 
