om.) 
Cr és 
ea. at 
ay 
—s 
VIDEO 
For more information about Videowest programs (soon available on videocassette), write: 
Videocassette Productions, 735 Harrison Street, San Francisco, CA 94107 
The reviews were written by Fabrice Florin with help from Ron Compesi, Tim Curry, Betsy Miller, 
Scoop Nisker and Phyllis Uppman. 
VIDEO 
by Fabrice Florin and Videowest, 
San Francisco, California 
ELEVISION, THE MOST POWERFUL MEDIUM 
of our times, has only been used so far to convey 
simple messages to the largest possible audience, 
shaping the minds of millions to serve the purpose of a 
happy few. Broadcast TV, as we know it, programs for 
the lowest common denominator, filling our screens with 
what has been described by network executives as the 
“least objectionable programming.” 
The long-awaited emergence of video may change this 
whole picture. As a highly technological future creeps 
upon us, new gadgets appear on the market which seem 
to offer more viewing options than the three networks 
did: VHS or Beta home video recorders, color cameras, 
Videowest is a group of media people producing, from a San Francisco-based UHF-TV station, the 
type of programming they couldn't find elsewhere: fast-paced magazines weaving news features, 
on-the-street interviews, personality profiles, off-the-wall comedy, and the latest rock ‘n‘roll music. 
—The Video Guide 
giant screens, cable and pay TV, video games, videodisks, 
etc. Whether this avalanche of hardware will affect imme- 
diately the quality of the software remains to be seen. 
The trend, however, certainly seems to lead towards a 
decentralization of the medium: “‘narrowcasting,” as it is 
called, or special-interest programming aimed at smaller 
audiences. 
With hands-on access to the new technologies, 
viewers may soon produce, select and distribute programs 
of their choice, changing our passive television set into a 
more convivial tool just like the telephone. 
For good or 
bad, video is here to stay and will affect deeply, along 
with home computers, the next cu/tural revolution. 
We decided not to evaluate any specific video products 
for two reasons: (1) There is such an abundance of similar 
but distinct pieces of hardware and software in the mar- 
ket today that a proper review would take more space 
than we have; and (2) by the time you get this book, our 
selections may well be outdated, considering the present 
pace of technological development. 
Furthermore, the 
publications listed below will do a much better job than 
we could in guiding you through the ever-expanding 
video jungle. Happy trails! 
Four Arguments for the 
Elimination of Television 
Former adman Jerry Mander proposes a radical solution 
to the negative aspects of television: get rid of the 
damned thing altogether. 
Despite solid research to back 
the arguments, Mander’s crusade against the all-American 
drug reminds one of Don Quixote and the windmills. 
While recognizing that he wouldnt know how to elimi- 
nate television in the first place, Mander proceeds to 
demonstrate how it distorts our perception of reality, 
pointing out the inherent dangers in a system where 
information is controlled by commercial interests. 
Great 
topic for thought and discussion. 
Keep it by your bed- 
side if you’re a heavy TV viewer. 
Four Arguments 
For the Elimination 
of Television 
Jerry Mander 
1977; 371 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
William Morrow and Co. 
Wilmor Warehouse 
6 Henderson Drive 
West Caldwell, NJ 07006 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
TV Guide Almanac 
A good research tool for the trivia buff, compiled by the 
editors of TV Guide. 
With all the depth and insight of a 
phone book, the Almanac /ists everything from commer- 
cial TV stations to Emmy Award winners to college pro- 
grams in broadcasting across the United States. Mainly 
facts and figures, but good reference material for those 
who care. 
TV Guide Almanac 
Craig T. Norback and 
Peter G. Norback 
1980; 680 pp. 
$10.95 postpaid from: 
Ballantine Books 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The big year for CBS turned out to be 1951, with the 
debut of / Love Lucy. Although the show from its 
inception looked to be a success, there was some question 
whether it would ever get on the air. Lucille Ball had to 
insist that CBS sign Desi Arnaz before the network would 
do so. Moreover, the couple wanted to do the show 
before a live audience, an idea that the network rejected. 
Ball and Arnaz produced the first show themselves to 
demonstrate their conception of / Love Lucy to the 
network. The upshot was that they invented the 
situation-comedy format. 
—TV Guide Almanac 
The Cool Fire: 
How to Make It in Television 
The Video Guide 
An excellent overview of small format video production 
with extremely detailed operating procedures on many 
of 
the most popular ENG (Electronic News Gathering) and 
home video systems (for 1/2” and 3/4” tape). Well 
illustrated and very up-to-date, with state of the art 
field production equipment. 
Charles Bensinger applies 
“new age” consciousness to video technology with 
interesting results. A “must” for aspiring videographers. 
The Video Guide 
Charles Bensinger 
1977, 1980; 254 pp. 
$16.95 postpaid from: 
Video Info Publications 
P.O. Box 1507 
Santa Barbara, CA 93102 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Video then is decentral- 
ization of media, 
\t can 
become a very personal 
statement, reflecting 
ideas and events and 
communicating information for perhaps only a single city 
block of people. What we have here is a true medium for 
the people and for individual applications. 
It can serve 
the small folks and the nation as well. And that’s why it 
excites a lot of people and motivates them sufficiently 
to somehow get their hands on a portapak, or whatever, 
and make tapes! 
The Home Video Handbook 
An insider’s look at the television industry. Bob Shanks, 
the producer of The Great American Dream Machine and 
The Jack Paar Show (among others) and a vice president 
of ABC, takes the reader on a grand tour of a business he 
loves. He describes, with colorful anecdotes, the history 
of the networks, how programs are developed and sold, 
how ratings work, and how talent agencies, advertisers, 
producers, directors, and technicians collectively shape 
contemporary television. A great working too! with first- 
hand tips for the aspiring television producer. 
The Cool Fire 
(How to Make It 
In Television) 
Bob Shanks 
1976; 318 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
Vintage Books 
Random House 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The Technique of Television Production 
A classic textbook on broadcast television production, 
covering in detail both technology and aesthetics, with 
over 1,000 quick-guide diagrams. Emphasizes heavy 
television studio operations, leaving aside small format 
field production techniques. Recommended for would- 
be television engineers. 
= 
= 
The Technique of 
Television Production 
Gerald Millerson 
1961, 1980; 440 pp. 
10th Edition 
$1 7.95 postpaid from: 
Focal Press 
10 East 40th Street 
New York, NY 10016 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Fig. 18.5. Pt 2. 
Fig. 18.5. Pt.3. 
CHEATED SUBSTITUTES. 
a cliff-face, seeking escape from his pursuers. The fugitive looks up at the cliff-face. 
Hearing his pursuers, he decides to climb. We have a shot of the possible route, 
followed by one of running feet. 
Charles Bensinger has adapted his Video Guide into a 
consumer-oriented manual for those only interested in 
4” home video systems (Beta or VHS). Includes several 
chapters on production techniques and aesthetics 
for beginners. 
The Home Video 
Handbook 
Charles Bensinger 
1979; 304 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
Video-Info Publications 
P.O. Box 1507 
Santa Barbara, CA 93102 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
his sequence of illustrations shows a fugitive climbing 
The fugitive seeks a handhold then, turning to see if his pursuers have seen him, he 
climbs. They stop at the cliff-base, his foot dislodges a stone, and they look up ... 
And the studio set-up for this sequence. Left: A gravel-strewn floor. Centre: A photo- 
caption of a cliff-face. 
Right: And a surface-contoured flat, over which the fugitive 
crawls. The shot is canted to suggest vertical climbing. 
