In the other approach, production weaving, 
weavers make their living weaving. They put on 
long warps for yardage or a series of the same 
thing, and weave for long hours regularly. The 
pleasure is in the physical process, in the rhyth- 
mical, repetitive motions. Speed, stability, 
efficiency, harness weight, noise level, and above 
all, ease of operating the loom (ease of treadling, 
beating, lifting the harnesses, releasing warp ten- 
sion and advancing the warp) count most over an 
8-hour day. Design is a relatively small portion of 
the process; it is usually loom-determined in 
threading, color and treadling sequence. 
The Scandinavian looms with their solid, strong, 
rigid frames, overhead beaters and light harnesses 
with string or polyester heddles take up more 
room but better suit production weaving. They 
are quieter, faster, easier to operate and capable 
of handling the widest range of textiles from rugs 
to lace weaves. The counterbalance looms (with 
rollers) are the simplest, easiest to learn on and 
use, but lose patterning possibilities because they 
are a balanced system — the harnesses are attached 
in pairs so in order to raise one harness, its corres- 
ponding harness must sink. 
The countermarch looms are more complex (they 
combine rising and sinking shed action), match 
the counterbalance’s ease of action and the jack’s 
ability to lift odd numbers of harnesses, but have 
been the devil to set up. On the old ones you took 
a thermos of whatever and crawled under the loom 
for the day tying up and adjusting multiple sets of 
everything. They are tall looms; the jacks operate 
from overhead, and their two sets of lams require 
double operating space under the loom. Once set 
up, they’re magnificently efficient, handsome and 
worth the effort. Glimakra uses the new ‘“‘Texsolv” 
polyester loop and button system on its looms 
which reduces tie-up time to 45 minutes and 
makes the countermarch system attractive again. 
(You can buy the button tie-ups independently 
of buying the loom.) 
By far the best standard treadling system produc- 
tion loom is not currently being manufactured 
because of low demand — it’s the Ahrens and 
Violette 45” 10-harness, side tie-up loom with the 
lightest harnesses, sandpaper breast/cloth beam 
combined (yes!), friction brake, and counter- 
weight system which automatically tensions and 
rolls the woven cloth onto the cloth beam at the 
back of the loom when the brake is released. Jim 
Ahrens, production weaver, mechanical engineer 
and designer of the loom, knows what he is doing. 
Hopefully increased demand will bring it back into 
production; they keep a list of names of those 
who would order if they eventually do so. 
What Ahrens and Violette have in production are 
their Dobby looms, in speed closest to the power 
loom. Small and compact for Dobbys, they allow 
the weaver to peg the tie-up and treadling sequence 
into the Dobby chain, a mechanism reminiscent 
of a player piano’s connected to the harnesses at 
the side of the loom. Treadling the two treadles 
then moves the Dobby through repeats of the 
sequence, a very fast, sweet and efficient system 
for lifting the harnesses. Making a living at 
weaving extremely complex and beautiful textiles 
is being done on these looms. Additionally 
with the optional fly shutter, their ease of opera- 
tion has allowed people with a variety of handi- 
caps to weave. 
» 
To speak to the “hardwood” vs. “softwood” 
controversy, “judicious selection of stock, adher- 
ence to a good design, proper joinery techniques 
and careful workmanship have a great deal more 
to do with building satisfactory textile tools than 
the mere choice of hardwood over softwood. And 
always remember that a hard wood can be a soft- 
wood and a soft wood a hardwood.” For history 
of the controversy and further technical details 
of comparison of wood qualities (shear value, 
shrinkage, rupture value, hardness, etc.) see the 
rest of Alden Amos’ article “Wood Used for Tex- 
tile Tools” in Textile Artist’s Newsletter, Vol. II 
No, 2. Suffice it to say that the Scandinavian 
looms in use for generations and the original 
Ahrens are of “softwood.”’ So are the Nagy and 
Ahrens and Violette Dobby looms 
Unsurpassed as “appropriate technology,” these are 
unique in the field of specialized, serious looms, the 
fastest, most efficient tools designed (60 picks per 
minute). 
They both have automatic systems for warp 
advance and constant, consistent tensioning, combined 
breast beam/cloth beam, polyester heddles and super 
light harnesses, with an adjustable spring-loaded 
Production Dobby: 
$2,770. 
16-harness, 48"’ weaving 
width, fly shuttle beater, rigid overhead frame, sand- 
Paper roller and automatic advance of the woven cloth 
onto a storage roller at the back of the loom. The 
lightest, fanciest textiles to rugs can be woven on this 
loom — the answer to a true production weaver’s prayer. 
harness return action which raises 12 harnesses with the 
same treadling effort as it takes to raise two. 
The Dobby 
chains are interchangeable — a chain with a particularly 
good design can be taken off and stored unti/ needed for 
another series of the same project. 
Using the Dobby 
takes a bit of initial effort to learn; the looms are 
accompanied by a 40-page extremely thorough instruc- 
tion manual! detailing Jim Ahrens’ production techniques 
for warping, threading and setting up. Prime for anyone 
weaving and designing apparel originals. 
—Diana Sloat 
Ahrens and 
Ahrens and Violette 
Violette Looms 
Loom Company 
Catalog 
601 Orange Street 
Chico, CA 95926 
free from: 
(9 month back-up 
on orders) 
Glimakra looms 
Lervad looms 
Glimakra of Sweden, world’s largest loom manufacturer, 
offers the widest selection of excellently crafted, 
extremely functional floor looms, ranging from enormous 
rug looms down to small, collapsible 4-harness floor 
looms that bolt onto a shelf or table. 
(Looks like half of 
a loom.) 
The 4-harness counterbalance and all countermarch models 
come with the “button” 
tie-up system. They have tall rigid 
side frames, overhead beaters, mortise and tenon joints 
with lockpins for swift, easy take-down and assembly. 
Light harnesses with nylon heddles and back-pivoted 
tread/es give smooth, easy maximum harness-lifting action. 
The only drawbacks are that treadles can be harder 
to find with the feet because they flap a little in front, 
and have a ratchet brake system. 
(Their counterbalance 
looms use a hard to adjust “horse” system — not recom- 
mended). 
Very versatile and beautiful looms, otherwise. 
—Diana Sloat 
Glimakra Swedish 
Looms 
Manufactured by: 
Vavstolsfabriken 
Glimakra AB 
Box 125 
5 
S-28064 Glimakra 
Sweden 
Catalog and price list 
free from: 
Glim&kra Looms 
and Yarns, Inc. 
P.O. Box 16157 
Rocky River, OH 44116 
Countermarch loom 40” - 64", 4 harness to 
10 harness, $995 
- $1620. 
Superbly crafted Danish countermarch looms, as much a 
pleasure to look at as to use. 
The Lervad family emphasis 
has been on quality; their followup on requests for infor- 
mation and replacements parts are prompt and caring 
(and in English). 
—Diana Sloat 
Lervad Looms 
Information — Send 
3 International 
Reply Coupons (about 
$1.20) from: 
Anders Lervad & Son A/S 
Askov, 6600 Vejen 
Denmark 
Rasmussen table loom 
A compact and inexpensive 25” unfinished 4- or 8-harness 
table loom with an excellent shed. 
It’s ready to weave on 
as soon as you bolt the castle upright. 
The only flaw I’ve 
discovered — a cord easily came off one of the rollers 
under the manipulations of a 2-year-o/d mechanic, and 
equally easily slid back in place. 
/t comes with stick 
shuttle, 12-dent 25” reed and Jease sticks. A lot of loom 
for the price. 
—Diana Sloat 
ee! 
Rasmussen Table Loom 
Information 
$ 50 from: 
Rasmussen Loom Co. 
Box 15451 
Seattle, WA 98115 
25", 4-8 harness, $130 - $185. 
Macomber loom 
Storz loom 
The largest, sturdiest, heaviest, noisiest and most versatile 
of the jack looms, it has the fastest tie-up system — steel 
pins snap into place instantly. 
There’s good access to the 
interior. 
It’s heavy enough for rugs. 
In fact, moving it 
is similar to moving a piano — a fact you should consider 
if your lifestyle is at all mobile. Many professionai 
weavers and artists seem to have them. 
—Diana Sloat 
Macomber Ad-a- 
Harness Looms 
Catalog 
free from: 
L.W. Macomber 
Beech Ridge Road 
York, ME 03909 
24''— 72", 4-24 harness, 
$472 - $3230. 
most Canadian spinning wheels. They are all 
excellent tools. 
Where to begin with all this information? 
© Buy used — want ads, notices on church, super- 
market and laundromat bulletin boards often 
turn up surprisingly good equipment. Then 
trade up to what you find you need. 
© Copy a good loom. 
e If buying new try to attend a handweaver’s 
conference or as many handweaving stores in 
your area as possible to try out a wide range of 
looms. The good ones stand out. 
e@ The looms reviewed here have proven them- 
selves over time. Good luck! 
= 
The smaller, graceful but very sturdy weaver-designed 
jack loom is as handsomely finished as the fireside, 
available in oak or maple, with 4 or 8 harnesses, 36” 
or 45” weaving width. 
The back beam flips up for 
easy threading; tie-up system is quick and quiet; the 
harness action is light for metal heddles. 
There is much 
thought in design and detailing — excellent for most 
textiles and very nice to look at. A slanted weaving 
bench available. 
There’s a 4 month wait on orders. 
—Diana Sloat 
[Suggested by Sarah Hammond] 
Storz Looms 
Information 
$1 from: 
Black Sheep Woodworks 
P.O. Box 184 
Willits, CA 95490 
45"', 4 - 8 harness, 
$820 - $1040 
© 
=e & 
© 
0 e186. m 
818 2 
ela ele e@ Gls e1e sie) es oe 
6 =) a) © eee 
THE RISING SU 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
wy 
Sac 
In some small Midwestern towns, almost any form 
of eccentricity is acceptable as long as it is neither 
political nor sexual. 
MORE LOOMS NEXT PAGE —> 
—
