Ref. 
o-weé 
_ 
wor 
le 
ST 
ee 
COMMUNITY _ 
BIRTH CONTROL 
CONVIMS Vhaese Vays 
by Salli Rasberry and Laird Sutton 
FTER UNHAPPY EXPERIENCES 
with the birth control methods I was 
using, my partner and I decided to 
reassess what was available. The 
pill caused me to have 24-day periods. 
When I switched to the IUD, my body 
protested strongly from the moment it 
was put in. Two tries it took to make it 
stick and then there was an almost cons- 
tant nagging pain. After encountering 
horror stories and alarming statistics I 
had my IUD removed. My options were 
now narrowed to foam, surgery, 
diaphragm, lunaception or condoms. Sex 
is so wonderful, but when you don’t want 
anymore children and birth control 
becomes a hassle, the future of your sex 
life begins to look a little grim. 
We decided to give shared birth control 
a try and see what condoms were all 
about. We reasoned they were conven- 
ient, offered peace of mind, there were 
no harmful side effects, and we could 
have a lot of fun experimenting. Our 
local country drug store offered slim 
pickins. There we found the opaque, 
dry condoms of our youth unappealingly 
labeled “For the prevention of disease 
only.” Luckily we found an ad for mail 
order contraceptives in Penthouse maga- 
zine, and one week later we were eagerly 
opening our package of one hundred 
assorted condoms. 
What fun! Coral ones, black ones, dry 
ones and wet ones. Pre-shaped, ribbed, 
textured, contoured, and scented — we 
tried them all. We blew them up, tried 
them on, measured how long they were, 
how thick, filled them with water and 
made a barometer out of one. Our friends 
got into the spirit when they saw that 
condoms had a brand new look and we 
had a contest to determine the 
favored brands. 
Here is some of what we found out 
during our adventure with condoms. 
Do they work? 
Planned Parenthood says that when the 
condom is used by itself it is theoretically 
97% effective, but in actuality it’s 80 - 85% 
effective. The difference seems to be in 
terms of lack of knowledge of how to use 
condoms to the best advantage. The 3% 
method-failure rate can be reduced even 
further by using vaginal foam along with 
the condom. During my most fertile days 
(the middle portion of my menstrual 
cycle) we use a birth control cream. 
Where do you get them? 
Drugstores, discount stores, some family 
planning centers, and mail order houses 
are the main sources at present. A bill has 
been passed in California to allow. their 
sale in a variety of public places, but as 
yet condoms may not be dispensed from 
a vending machine. Availability is consid- 
erably greater in other countries. In Japan 
(where the Pill and IUD are not legally 
sanctioned) 70% of the couples who use 
contraception use the condom, which 
Japanese women sell door to door. 
Drug stores are handy, but for the largest 
selection and economy mail-aways are the 
best source. The two mail-order catalogs 
we use are: 
Adam & Eve 
P.O. Box 800 
Carrboro, NC 27510 
Federal Pharmacel 
Laboratories 
6652 N. Western Avenue 
Chicago, IL 61645 
Both companies are dependable and fast 
and offer a good selection of fresh, tested 
condoms. It’s a good idea to order both 
catalogs and check the prices, which vary 
a good deal. We have come across nine 
different firms making condoms. They 
cost about a cent to make, but packaging 
and middle people raise their price to 
about $ .20 to $ .90 each, depending 
on quantity and type. 
Varieties 
Choosing a condom is a matter of personal 
preference. They all work. There are two 
main types of condoms — skin (made of 
sheep intestines) and latex (rubber). 
Many users of the “skins” feel they are 
more natural and provide greater sensa- 
tion. Skins cost two or three times more 
than latex and smell a bit too much like 
sheep for our taste. 
There are a lot of different colors available 
in latex. Color adds a visual dimension 
which we use occasionally for an added 
turn on. At the other extreme are the 
opaque white ones which look like an old 
rain coat. No wonder they were often 
called “rubbers.” 
Some condoms are dry and are harder to 
put on and in. There’s nothing like a dry 
piece of rubber in your vagina or feeling 
the skin of your cock pulled and pinched 
to diminish your sexual ardor. Some 
condoms are initially very wet yet dry 
quickly. The best feeling ones are lubri- 
cated with a dry silicone, sometimes 
called S-K 70. These condoms are silky 
and sexy: In addition we sometimes use 
saliva or K-Y jelly, this lubrication pro- 
viding a thermal zone to effectively 
transmit feeling. 
The old fashioned condom did not have a 
reservoir end to catch the semen, which 
contributed to leakage and breakage. 
Most of the modern latex condoms have 
a reservoir end, and we highly recommend 
these. Many of our favorite brands are 
contoured to cling to the head of the 
penis. Latex condoms can be extremely 
sensitive or amazingly dull. When we 
miked them (measured them with a 
micrometer) we found the thickness 
ranged from .0015 in. to .0035 in. Two 
Asian brands, Geisha thins and Skinless 
Skin are .0003 in. thick. Thinness does 
make a difference in sensitivity. We hear 
it bandied about that the best thing about 
condoms is that they dull sensation, 
helping the man to last longer. We found 
one condom that even had a delay cream 
inside to “extend” lovemaking. Sensation 
is the name of the game. Why have a 
numb one when sex feels so good. Men 
are not studs for female enjoyment. If 
you are coming faster than you want, try 
learning to relax, especially your legs, 
thighs and small of your back or come 
again later. (If you do come several times 
use a new condom each time.) There is 
no need to put yourself down for coming 
or to buy thick condoms. 
We have found several condoms of the 
sixty or so we encountered that incor- 
porated all the best features. 
Texture Plus. Textured rings on the head 
and hundreds of raised pleasure dots on 
the shaft. This textured surface massages 
the sensitive vaginal tissues in the first 
third of the vaginal barrel where most of 
the feeling is. Complete with instructions. 
Geisha Thins. So thin we used foam at 
first until we were convinced they 
wouldn’t break. Mesh pattern on the shaft 
for added stimulation. They are expensive 
so we use them for special occasions. 
Jade. Comes in green, blue, gold and red. 
Reasonably priced, preshaped, sheer — 
good all around condom. 
Scentuals. Ribbed, colorful and they 
smell good. 
Arouse. Coral colored. Textured spirals 
at reasonable price. 
Fourex. Everybody’s favorite 
skin condom. 
We recommend trying one of the samplers 
until you find a condom that suits you, 
then order in quantity. Condoms are 
significantly cheaper by the gross. 
How big? 
Condoms normally come in one size and 
are advertised to fit any size penis. There 
are several brands that are smaller in both 
length and diameter, and some men prefer 
the way they hug the contour of their 
penis. The average length of an erect 
cock is a little over six and one-half inches. 
The condoms with reservoirs are almost all 
seven inches long. Condoms appear to 
be made only for the circumcised male. 
The uncircumcised man has up to two 
extra inches of skin to account for. Uncir- 
cumcision discrimination? 
Storage 
Proper storage of condoms is important 
for their effectiveness, as they are made 
primarily of latex rubber which if kept 
too long or too hot can ROT. Many are 
dated, and these dates indicate a shelf 
life of four years. Planned Parenthood 
suggests a shelf life of two years, which 
seems right to us. Keeping them in your 
billfold or glove compartment for very 
long is NOT a good idea. Often condoms 
kept this way will either rot or the foil 
package breaks and perforates the rubber. 
Keep one for show in your billfold if it 
makes you feel good, but have a fresh one 
handy for use. 
Putting it on 
Put your condom on before there is any 
penetration, even “just for a moment.” 
There is a pre-ejaculate fluid secreted by 
the Cowper’s gland which prepares the 
tubes for ejaculation. This pre-ejaculate 
often contains sperm, hundreds of them, 
and it only takes one sperm to become 
pregnant. If you use a separate lubri- 
cation, other than what is on the condom, 
stay away from petroleum-based jelly or 
oil. Vaseline or baby oil can weaken the 
latex and can irritate the vagina. Use 
saliva or K-Y jelly. 
Make it a fun thing to do. Either partner 
can put it on. Squeeze the end of the 
condom slightly to release the air (this 
increases sensitivity and helps to elimi- 
nate breakage). Roll the condom over 
the head of the penis and unroll slowly 
until the entire penis is covered. If you 
are uncircumcised, retract your foreskin, 
which makes rolling the condom over 
your penis more comfortable. Condoms 
are made for the erect penis. It is best to 
remove the penis from the vagina while 
the penis is at least semi-hard, otherwise 
the condom may slip off. Grasp the 
ring of the condom against your body 
during withdrawal to avoid spillage. 
As the rubber tends to cling to your 
skin, pulling your condom off by the 
tip may spray your partner. If you are 
concerned about the possibility of VD, 
wash your cock or vagina and surrounding 
area, and urinate after sex. 
Condoms and VD 
At this time condoms are the only form of 
birth control that also provides protec- 
tion against venereal disease and tricho- 
monas (vaginal infection that gets passed 
back and forth between partners and 
can be hell to get rid of). There is some 
indication that some foams may also help, 
but this is not well researched yet. 
An estimated one in ten teens will have 
VD before graduating from high school, 
and it is now epidemic among people 
between the ages of 15 and 24. Doctors 
may legally treat persons of any age for 
VD without informing the parents 
or guardian. 
VD clinics could give out condoms to 
those who come for VD treatment, as it 
can still be passed even though treatment 
has been started. Studies indicate that 
once teenage boys are introduced to the 
condom, they are likely to continue 
using them. 
Pregnant Drop Outs 
Being pregnant is the single biggest reason 
for girls dropping out of high school. 
There are 786,000 unintended teenage 
pregnancies annually. One in sixteen 
women who have pre-marital sex become 
pregnant. Teens account for one third of 
all legal abortions in the U.S. and one 
half of out-of-wedlock births. One half 
of Aid to Dependent Children (welfare 
payments — some forty-seven billion 
dollars annually) goes to households 
in which the mother had given birth 
as a teenager. 
Many young women feel it can’t happen 
to them, are careless, forgetful. Often 
young men leave contraception up to the 
woman. There is a feeling that if you do 
get caught there is always an abortion 
possible. When a young person takes 
precaution the first time they have inter- 
course, 78% continue to do so. If they do 
not use protection the first time, only 49% 
get it together for the future. Only about 
one-third of sexually active females under 
20 uses a reliable method of birth control. 
Under the California Schmitz Act a teach- 
ing credential can be revoked if a teacher 
does not willingly inform the parents in 
writing or by phone of any classroom 
discussion of sex. Children want sex 
information from their parents. They 
want fact without arguments or need to 
reveal their sex lives. They often feel 
that they cannot afford or find birth 
control devices. 
The facts are alarming, the chasm between 
adult information and experience and the 
needs of youth is widening. Children have 
their own values yet lack the ability to 
see into the future. A groovie fuck 
tonight without precaution may be an 
unwanted child forever. As long as 
parents and other adults are uptight and 
judgmental of the young, communica- 
tion will strangle and die. Our children 
are developing mature bodies at an early 
age. They are ripe, and their biological 
urges to reproduce seem strong. Yet the 
brain is an important sex organ. Who is 
going to take the responsibility for actions 
that affect the whole of mankind? 
= 
