i 
: 
ff 
Hilti AND Gas ‘ay 
1, 
TALLER 
IN ee yf U Sort Tee 
5 
HUE 
LNG 
WY 
Ufij/ij SOF 
X TESHNOLOSIES 
MBE Hy MMMM 
S3 
®@ OR QUINTILLION 
(10!) JOULES PER YEAR 
Soft Energy Paths 
+ 
Amory Lovins is one of the good guys if you happen to 
be anti-nuclear and pro-environment. But to many 
economists and other conventional wisdom freaks, he is 
a pie-in-the-sky type given to utopian, emotional over- 
simplifications. 
| find his simplifications to be the result 
of crap-removal, and his arguments to be essentially 
reasonable if humanity is to last much longer. 
His discus- 
sion of nuclear matters is particularly enlightening. 
I’ve 
noticed that his noisiest foes are the emotionalists these 
days; Mr. Lovins is the one with the documentation. 
—J. Baldwin 
Soft Energy Paths 
(Toward a Durable Peace) 
Amory B. Lovins 
1979; 231 pp. 
oft ENERGY 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
{ 
pATHS 
Harper & Row 
pan AS 
Keystone Industrial Park 
mune oes 
Scranton, PA 18512 
H 
a 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
People do not want electricity or oil, nor such economic 
abstractions as “residential services,’ but rather comfort- 
able rooms, light, vehicular motion, food, tables, and 
other real things. Such end-use needs can be classified by 
the physical nature of the task to be done. In the United 
States today, about 58 percent of all energy at the point 
of end use is required as heat, split roughly 23-35 between 
temperatures above and below the boiling point of water. 
(In Western Europe the low temperature heat alone is 
often a half of all end-use energy.) Another 38 percent 
of all U.S. end use energy provides mechanical motion: 
31 percent in vehicles, 3 percent in pipelines, 4 percent in 
industrial electric motors. The rest, a mere 4 percent 
of delivered energy, represents a// lighting, electronics, 
tele-communications, electrometallurgy, electrochemistry, 
arc welding, electric motors in home appliances and in 
railways, and similar end uses that now require electricity. 
Energy for Survival 
Just about the first analysis of Big Industrial Society 
energy use to be noticed by the conventional institutions, 
this comprehensive overview remains one of the best and 
most useful. Starting with basic thermodynamic principle, 
Wilson proceeds to explain what part energy plays in our 
society, and what the probable result will be if we continue 
our wastrel ways. He concludes with a /ook at probable 
and possible ways of producing and conserving power. 
This book was an eye-opener when it first appeared and it 
still is if you are not well versed in these matters. 
The 
documentation is formidable. 
—J. Baldwin 
Energy for Survival 
(The Alternative 
to Extinction) 
Wilson Clark 
1975; 652 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid from: 
Doubleday and Company 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The reason heat pumps are not in wider use today is two- 
fold: First, the reputation of unreliability has haunted 
the electric heat pump since its premature introduction 
on the commercial market in the 1950s. Additionally, 
since the improved heat pumps have become available, 
virtually no attempts have been made nationally by elec- 
tric utilities, manufacturers, or retail outlets to inform the 
public of their superiority — or even of their existence. 
This blackout of advertising is astounding in the light of 
the heat pump’‘s remarkable efficiency and the fact that 
the initial cost of central home heat pump installations 
are rarely more than 10 to 20 percent more expensive 
than those of conventional central air-conditioning sys- 
tems. Assuming the higher operating expense of home 
electric heating equipment, it is quite possible that heat 
Pumps are cheaper in most areas than the combined cost 
of a central air-conditioning and heating system; and the 
operating costs of the heat pump will save an average of 
two thirds of the yearly electric power bill — while using 
One third the energy of the common electrical resistance 
heating system. 
The Energy Controversy 
SOFT TECHNOLOGY 
ENERGY 
Soft Energy Notes 
Amory Lovins wasn’t the first to advocate “soft energy 
paths” but he certainly was first to do it in a way that 
commanded the attention of the hard-path people and 
their friends. 
They have tried just about every ploy 
imaginable to refute his carefully documented analytic 
papers. 
This book presents the arguments of his more 
vocal critics and congruently presents Amory at his 
formidable best as he cuts his august detractors down to 
size. But the book can be more than that; many of us on 
the side of the good and the true also have doubts that 
we can’t readily express in the present atmosphere of 
politicized side-choosing without risking reputation. 
Often such doubts turn out to be the very ones brought 
up by the critics here. 
Thus these debates can be instruc- 
tive to all of us, and a study of them can affirm our soft 
energy stance by furnishing us with further ammunition 
for local argument. And once again, not only has Amory 
Lovins done our homework for us, he serves as a fine 
example of what can be done by one person in a situation 
that so often seems hopeless. 
The widely-hailed Energy 
Future from Harvard Business School is essentially 
Amory’s findings checked out and dully presented. 
—J. Baldwin 
The Energy 
Controversy 
(Soft Path Questions 
and Answers) 
Amory Lovins et al; 
Hugh Nash, Editor 
1979; 450 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid from: 
Friends Of The Earth 
124 Spear Street 
San Francisco, CA 94105 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Energy Future 
The prestigious Harvard Business School adds its establish- 
ment voice to the call for an energy conserving solar 
society. A perfectly straightforward cold-blooded 
economic case is made in support of this view, using the 
accepted form but not (surprise) the expected conventional 
wisdom information sources. 
The arrival of this book has 
lent a certain credence to the work of other authors such 
as Amory Lovins whose work has not necessarily been 
accepted in high places. 
It’s a good job. /t even reads 
pretty well. 
/t is a big help to those attempting to con- 
vince the powers that be. 
—J. Baldwin 
Energy Future 
(Report of the Energy 
Project at the Harvard 
Business School) 
Robert Stobaugh and 
Daniel Yergin, Editors 
1979; 353 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid from: 
Random House 
455 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Already by mid-1977 there was a national de facto 
moratorium on the purchase of nuclear generating equip- 
ment in the United States. As a consequence, the 1979 
outlook for nuclear power in the United States is much 
different from what it seemed to be in the wake of the 
1973-74 OPEC actions. Actually, since the early 1970s 
there have been successive downward revisions in projec- 
tions of future installed capacity in all of the Western oil- 
importing countries. 
e 
At an energy conference in Los Angeles, the oil people 
told the heroic story of tapping Alaska’s North Slope; 
the nuclear people talked about advanced nuclear tech- 
nology; the coal people discussed synthetic fuels and 
slurry pipelines. The engineer from Los Angeles’ Depart- 
ment of Water and Power then stood up to explain how it 
got the residents of Los Angeles to go along with an 
effort that substantially reduced consumption of electric- 
ity: ‘We advised citizens to do such things as shut their 
curtains at night.” Here was a conference devoted to the 
great energy crisis, the moral equivalent of war, and here 
was a man who was saying that the solution is for people 
to do such bold things as close their curtains at night. 
This is why, when an aide to one of the most powerful 
senators on energy issues.was asked why the distinguished 
legislator has never given a speech on conservation, the 
aide replied, ‘It would either be filled with platitudes or 
so specific that everybody’s nose would fall into his 
Rice Krispies,”’ 
Viee@ 
phe 
SOQ 
ee 
ee 
eweKtesgseececaecade 
Friends Of The Earth (FOE) has, among its many enter- 
prises, a division called International Project For Soft 
Energy Paths. Among the names on the masthead is 
Amory Lovins, as you might expect from the name of 
this newsletter. 
Soft Energy Notes started as a Xerox 
stack of interesting papers but has now graduated to 
being a real magazine. 
/t’s one of the most informative 
around, and because of the considerable travels of Mr. 
Lovins and the network connections of the other editors 
and contributors, the contents reflect the forefront of 
current thought, analysis, and even hardware upon occa- 
sion. Many’s the time I’ve added /uster to my reputation 
by quoting from this worthy paper. 
Your subscription 
helps finance FOE too. 
—J. Baldwin 
Soft Energy Notes 
Charles Drucker, Editor 
ee 
§ 
$25 /year (6 issues) 
(make your check payable to 
Friends of the Earth) 
postpaid from: 
International Project for 
Soft Energy Paths 
124 Spear Street 
San Francisco CA 94105 
L 
One principal work makes conventional wisdom out-of-date. 
That is the normal looking, cheap, even frumpy house 
built by Eugene Leger in north-central Massachusetts. 
Based on a computer-generated, Lo-Cal design, Leger’s 
house demonstrates that a low cost residence, with no 
striking design constraints, can operate in Massachusetts’ 
severe climate with a winter heating bill of less than $10 
per month ($38.50 for January through April, or 11.5 GJ 
over 2.144 Celsius degree days). This performance level 
sets a high standard for other designers to match in 
economics, comfort, design flexibility, and environmental 
side effects. 
What is remarkable about Leger’s house is that there is 
nothing solar about it: it has windows on the north, 
east, and west sides, and no huge expanse on the south 
side, 
It does not contain tons of concrete, piles of rock, 
or walls of water as ‘‘thermal mass.’’ So how does Leger 
perform his low-energy trick? With a superb building 
“envelope’: extra-thick insulation combined with pain- 
staking efforts to reduce air leaks. Leger placed a con- 
tinuous overlapping sheet of polyethylene on the exterior 
walls and ceiling. To avoid breaking this air and vapor 
seal with electrical outlets and plumbing, he installed a 
newly developed surface-mounted electrical system called 
the ‘Gould Electrostrip’’. This device isan important 
part of Leger’s energy-tight design, demonstrating 
how innovations in one sector can spur advances 
in another. 
Eugene Leger's house in East Pepperell, Massachusetts 
hides extraordinary energy efficiency behind a plain 
exterior. 
Its price, like its appearance, raises no eyebrows 
in the neighborhood. 
i 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
> 
When they used to march soldiers to within a mile 
of bomb tests to watch and show soldiers could 
function under post bomb conditions, guys would 
hold their hands over their eyes and see every 
single bone. 
173 
Ww 
