86 
LAND USE 
FOREST 
Origin of 
the Hoedads 
by Gary Rurkun 
When Gary Rurkun wrote this in 1976, he 
was a 24-year-old biophysics grad stu- 
dent. His crew was the Natural Wonders. 
—SB 
A co-op of two hundred people doesn’t 
just spring up from nothing, but like a 
crystal it grows from a nucleus of com- 
mitted and seminal people. 
My experience with the Hoedads began in 
the late summer and fall of 1973 in 
Eugene, Oregon. At the time I was look- 
ing for work, any work, as were many 
folks around Eugene. It turned out that 
every hitchhiker I picked up and asked 
about work (beats the want-ads) had 
heard something about an infinite fountain 
of work which began with the rains. 
There would be no bosses, you could 
smoke dope all day, make lots of money, 
“run by hippies, man.” No one knew 
who or where or how it would come 
together, at least none of my sources. 
After hearing this same nebulous story 
from a number of different people, it 
became clear that this was no mass delu- 
sion and that perhaps there was such a 
thing as planting trees (images of huge 
tractors hefting Giant Sequoias) and that 
the hippie business existed. 
us snowed out. There was a big temptation to go 
back and wake up the bartender. The Cheap Thrills 
folks called for a crew meeting instead, to discuss the 
issues that would be brought up at the General 
Meeting in Eugene. 
The crew is the basic Hoedad family unit. Groups of 
Eventually with the help of several miracles 
I ended up at the pre-pre-pre general 
meeting of the primeval co-op on a piece 
of land outside of Eugene. We arrived on 
the scene to find vans, school buses, 
and assorted fifteen year old vehicles 
parked all around the small farm house. 
It was an assembly of perhaps 200 various 
Oregonites of every persuasion, from 
grizzled logger types to frizzled guru 
types, cork boots to thongs, Big Red to 
ginseng. All were looking as confused as 
the first day of high school because at that 
point for most of us Hoedads was a hum 
in the air more than a reality. 
After a bit of moseying and a few rounds 
of rumoring, it turned out that someone 
was in control. A woodsy type charac- 
ter with a full beard, and huge build, and 
powerful voice called us all around him to 
chat. He was 2Sish and articulate and had 
a very uneasy look on his face. We were 
probably 200 of the motliest, most 
disorganized folks he’d ever seen. But he 
and his friends were responsible for our 
being there that morning so he went on. 
He explained the trip. He and his friends 
standing next to him had planted trees 
as a cooperative crew for a few years 
already and had really enjoyed working 
together, unlike commercial tree planting 
operations with a crew boss and hourly 
wage workers. They went on to explain 
the advantages of a cooperative tree 
planting for making money as well as for 
our souls. 
But these boys didn’t just want to enjoy 
their crew; being true new age entrepren- 
eurs, they wanted to be the seed that 
creates a larger co-operative. They did not 
want to give the assembled crowd any 
work. They offered to get contracts for 
us, all of us, if we could organize ourselves 
into cohesive cooperative crews like their 
crew, the Cougar Mountain crew. They 
then went on to describe how to organ- 
ize a crew; the necessity of some money, 
a crew crummy (the rig in which you ride 
to work), a treasurer, a crew ideology or 
by-laws, etc. A lot of information was 
passed on how they intended for us to 
get it together. Then a break. 
The folks were left with their minds reel- 
ing. Is this for real? Could it possibly 
come together? What’s their angle? 
Whose crew do I get on? How do you 
organize a group of undisciplined strangers 
into a work force? 
The practicalities began to evolve that 
afternoon. The Cougar Mountain crew 
would put up their 300 acres of land 
as collateral to cover the bonding on the 
contracts for which we would bid. But 
we-had to know how many crews in order 
to know how many contracts to bid on. It 
seemed that everyone there wanted to join 
a crew and was ready to plant. “Okay, 
then organize yourselves into crews of 
about twenty, right now,” we were told. 
Now there was unspoken panic in the 
faces of many, shades of dances in junior 
high school and who will be picked to 
dance and who will stand by the wall. 
I wished my hair to grow and my voice 
couldn’t vote against a notion like this, and as a man 
you could vote either way. There were mostly men 
in the yurt. It was decided that the Cheap Thrills 
crew would support the womens’ crew at the general 
meeting in Eugene, in a week. Could I come? 
fifteen to twenty people, the majority being men, 
travel, work and camp together. There are twelve 
OT so crews with proud names like Red Star, Mud 
Sharks, Cougar Mountain, Cheap Thrills, Different 
Strokes, and TNT (Tabasco ’n Tofu). The crew 
elects or appoints people to bid work through Hoedad 
Central (bondable), has its own treasurer, its own set 
of books, and is the initial resting place of the money 
from a contract. 
It pays, therefore, to have an interest 
in crew politics. 
The meeting took place in the central yurt. We 
started by passing a long stemmed, heavy yet intri- 
cate pipe full of talk-and-stare weed. A chairperson 
THE GENERAL MEETING 
The WOW hall used to be owned by the Woodmen of 
the World. It was built in a time when the prime 
timber was still in the stump, before yarders and 
balloons and helicopter logging, when it still took 
labor to harvest the tree crops. The Hoedads had 
slushed some money into the hall to save it from 
burger kingdom and were now renting it for their 
quarterly meeting. It was a nice place, in downtown 
Eugene, with a Grange hall feeling. Outside twenty 
folks cooled their Vibrams and watched the traffic. 
them read like this: 
was selected. Folks squatted in with their knees up 
around their ears and got down to business. 
Did the Hoedads need a general store? There was a 
real need for a group-buying operation to supplement 
the existing quartermaster’s function, but was a retail 
store worth the hassle? It was moved, seconded, and 
unanimously decided that should a Hoedad General 
Store ever come about, it would be a workers’ 
collective within 
a membership cooperative. These 
folks were serious. 
What should happen to the Hoedad General’s $70,000 
cash reserve fund which the membership fees and 
administrative withholding had created? This was a 
tough one. Should it be used for a treeplanters’ 
retirement parcel, Hoedad Acres, or loaned out to 
On Lonelyness 
As an idle man 
I find too many 
things to do, 
to be lonely. 
deadly 
boring to me. 
movement folks with no cash funds? Nothing was 
decided. Well enough should be left alone. It was 
nice and warm in the yurt. Let the cash reserve 
fund grow. 
What about a womens’ crew? Was it separatist and 
away from the move toward federation? A group of 
woman Hoedads wanted to try planting together, 
without the sexual competition and “you are so cute 
when you plant trees” bullshit that comes with almost 
any American work situation. There are about sixty 
woman Hoedads, some of them loners, some of them 
coupled up with men, but most of them workers in 
their own right. I watched men’s eyes drift out into 
the snow and imagined that I was losing my old lady 
to anew misunderstood power. Wasn’t it sexist to 
split off like this? Couldn’t more women become 
Hoedads and go for gradual change within the 
cooperative? It was the old rub: as a woman you 
that I have no time 
Besides, it would be 
Starting a meeting on a sunny Sunday isn’t a 
cinch. There was an oval of stiff chairs on the 
meeting floor, a bunch of risers along the side, and 
people spilled here and there. The president acted 
as chairperson. Should we read the old minutes 
or rely on memory? The legalists prevailed. If 
the old minutes were going to be adopted then 
Discussing the women’s crew at the general meeting 
A Spanish Civil War veteran with bushy eyebrows 
taped political messages to the powerpoles. One of 
to deepen. Somehow we all assembled 
ourselves into crews; some crews formed 
around existing collectives, a video group, 
a group who owned a commune out of 
town, some old friends. My housemate 
of one week knew a lot of people so I 
snuck into his crew. 
The Cougar Mountain people then told 
each crew to go ahead and get organized, 
buy a crummy, train to plant with them. 
Any problems, just call CM for advice. 
The responsibility rested on the shoulders 
of each crew, but it might work. “It 
might work” was the thought of that day. 
What followed was a period of disbelief 
and mistrust born from experiences with 
ripoffs and self-motivation. We had little 
experience with moral rather than mone- 
tary motivation. But discussion over these 
issues soon yielded to the trust and 
adventure of organizing the crew. 
Our crew organized quickly and was ready 
to work. We were twenty people from 
varying backgrounds, a few woodsmen 
but mostly ex-college students, reformed 
surfers, and assorted followers of gurus. 
We collected a $20 membership fee to 
finance our 1953 Chevy crew carrier, the 
crew totem. We discussed the various 
forms our crew could take and agreement 
was reached to keep it loose at first until 
we understood the possible problems. We 
were then ready to report back to Central, 
as our headquarters became known. 
Central was a committee composed of 
elected representatives from each crew 
