EARLY 2/3 OF AMERICAN HOUSE- 
holds grow some of their own food, 
according to a 1980 Gallup Poll; and 
abou 2 million people garden away from home in 
community gardens. Another 7 million people 
would like to join a community garden but don’t 
yet have one in their neighborhood. 
In the past decade community gardening programs 
have sprung up in cities across the country. Initial 
funds often came from city or county government. 
Now funding in health, education housing, crime 
prevention, and the arts, in both the public and 
private sector, is being broadened to include 
gardening. At the same time, the gardeners are 
doing much of the organizing and gathering of 
materials themselves, with money needed primarily 
for water hook-ups, insurance, and fencing. 
Large tracts of land near public housing projects 
provide food for several hundred gardeners in 
Chicago and San Francisco. These are the new 
victory gardens. The plots are large, 25’ x 50’, 
and what isn’t eaten by the gardeners’ own family 
and friends is given away or traded or sold. The 
Frederick Douglass gardens in San Francisco 
ifclude sixty large plots providing regular vegeta- 
bles for more than 400 people. In the little town 
of Isla Vista, near Santa Barbara, California, a 
garden of Laotian and Hmong Chinese refugees have 
plots of only 10 feet x 20 feet. But through 
intensive gardening techniques, each plot provides 
daily food for 12 people. 
In most American cities, community gardening 
programs have only scratched the surface of 
available vacant land. School grounds, hospital 
grounds, undeveloped park lands, vacant lots and 
even back yards that don’t get used are suitable 
places to grow food, provided they’re not facing a 
major street or highway. A 1980 survey conducted 
at food stamp distribution centers in Los Angeles 
showed that 86% of the people interviewed not 
only wanted to grow their own food but knew 
of vacant land within a block of their residence 
suitable for gardening. This indicates that the 
nudge of inflation is about to bring a lot of gar- 
deners out of dormancy. 
Even in rural areas, people who don’t have land of 
their own are beginning to grow food together. 
Community gardens are springing up in migrant 
labor camps, for instance, and in several California 
towns, groups of farmworkers tend large com- 
munity gardens on public land and market the 
produce collectively. 
Prisons and state hospitals are re-discovering the 
logic of growing their own food. It’s an old idea. 
Before World War II, many state hospitals were 
notorious for winning blue ribbons at the state 
fairs. They often had the best flowers, vegetables, 
livestock and fruit. But after the war came a great 
gush of equality, and America didn’t want hospital 
patients doing “‘slave labor” in the fields. 
For security reasons, prisons stopped having 
gardens until recently. Now a few, such as the 
SUSAN EHMER, S.F. CHRONICLE 
Leavenworth State Penitentiary in Kansas, have 
begun to grow hundreds of pounds of vegetables. 
Gardening is a popular outdoor activity , 
the quality 
of the institution’s diet is improved, and the staff 
often gets a chance to work side by side with the 
residents. Furthermore, the money saved in food 
and groundskeeping is considerable. 
These are some of the reasons why horticultural 
therapy was listed by the Wall Street Journal as 
one of the 10 fastest growing careers for the ‘80s. 
A gardener can solicit work at hospitals, programs 
for the handicapped and half-way houses much as 
one solicits landscaping clients — except in this 
case it is people that are being cultivated as well as 
plants. At present, there are no basic horticultural 
therapy books in print. It’s unfortunate, since 
gardening with the severely retarded or disabled 
requires special techniques, but other populations 
simply take care and common sense. Horticultural 
LAND USE 
Clementina Garden in San Francisco adjoins a housing project for 
retired people. Chinese couples are especially active in the garden. 
Rosemary Menninger and Richard Nilsen helped start Clementina 
in 1973. 
serictas 
by Rosemary Menninger 
therapy is such a new field that academic creden- 
tials are not necessary. However, degree programs 
in horticultrual therapy are offered at state univer- 
Sities in Rhode Island, Delaware and Georgia; 
also at Texas Tech, Kansas State, Michigan State, 
University of Florida and Clemson College in 
South Carolina. 
In both community gardens and institutional 
gardens, people do simple things, such as growing 
their own food and helping their neighbors, but 
the effect on those involved is often astonishing. 
A government study of school gardens found that 
children who gardened learned better in all of their 
subjects than those who didn’t garden. The 
teachers said the gardening children gained a sense 
of power that made them feel more confident than 
before. Through gardening, people are able to 
effect a change in their environment and to effect 
a change in their lives; when they experience this 
together all kinds of barriers begin to disappear. 
m= 
The Complete Book of 
Community Gardening 
Community gardening’s most interesting aspects are 
covered in this warm-hearted book — the wide variety of 
people involved, the nooks and crannies and open fields 
they find to grow their food in, and the techniques that 
evolve when people of different ethnic backgrounds 
garden together. Author Jamie Jobb documents com- 
munity gardening by describing how people do it from 
coast to coast — including annotated lists of seed sources, 
organizations, publications, ect. Groups of plants and 
groups of people come together in community gardens. 
—Rosemary Menninger 
e 
Guerilla Gardens 
America has more vacant and abused lands than it has 
people who are willing or able to cultivate them. But 
there is one good way to put this land to use and make it 
productive. The secret is to broadcast-sow vacant lots 
with seeds of mother weeds and hearty cultivated plants 
so their dynamic qualities and aggressive root action can 
renew the land. 
Later these vacant lots could be used by 
WINDBREAKC— 
MEDGEROYY 
MUSESIO 
is) 
@ 
1g 
a. 
16) 
8. 
© 
U0. 
0 
01/6 
61) 
8.0 
6 
The Complete Book 
of Community 
Gardening 
Jamie Jobb 
1979; 185 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
William Morrow & Co., Inc 
Wilmor Warehouse 
6 Henderson Drive 
West Caldwell, NJ 07006 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
neighborhood garden groups like yours or others. Or they 
can be left alone to grow and spread their wings as bona 
fide weed patches. 
e 
Seeds from any of these wild and cultivated plants can be 
used to start a guerilla garden. Simply break the soil a 
bit and then toss the seeds: 
fava beans 
vetch 
goldenrod 
clover 
alfalfa 
nasturtium 
lupines 
borage 
flax 
black nightshade 
ground cherry 
plantain 
cherry tomato 
cayenne pepper 
shepherd's-purse 
dandelion 
sunflower 
milkweed 
cosmos 
wild lettuce 
lamb‘s quarters 
marigold 
Shasta daisy 
stinging nettle 
sow thistle 
curly dock 
burdock 
sheep sorrel 
cocklebur 
amaranth 
smartweed 
mustard 
rye 
ey 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
People will usually tell you pretty directly what 
question they want to be asked. Usually the 
ask you. Watch for the slightly off the wall, some- 
what left fieldish question from friends — ‘“‘Do you 
like your job? Do your parents get along? What 
do you want to do the rest of your life?” Point 
the question toward them and they may take a 
chance they’ve been waiting for to work some- 
thing out in words. 
