i 
eee 
MP ea 
AT) 
we 
oe eh 
Fon 
oe 
E 
om 
ad 
Et 
ah 
LAND USE 
FOREST 
They have a legal, cooperative structure, their own 
credit union, a gypsy lifestyle, enough work to keep a 
little ways from foodstamps, no gurus, and a vision of 
a labor-intensive energy-efficient forest of the future. 
The Hoedads of Oregon were founded in 1973. 
CoEvolution’s resident cowboy J.D. Smith wrote 
this account of their success in 1976. Since then 
tree-planting cooperatives have sprung up absolutely 
everywhere in the American West. The longhairs of 
the ‘70s are reforesting this side of the continent, 
and within that little errand something even 
profounder may be going on. 
ba 
> 
o 
= 
re 
© 
o 
PATRICK 
PLAIA 
uae 20 Se Mil, 
The Cheap Thrills Crew 
CHINESE FELLOW ONCE SAID, IN 
translation, that one process of revolution 
is the dialectic progression from mutual aid 
societies (neighbors putting up hay together), 
through the cooperative movement, the worker’s 
collectives, the commune, to the community, in all 
its full-blown national importance. When the wheat 
farmer figures out that he doesn’t need a business 
agent, and his friends are too busy to help, he 
builds up a farm coop, a storage elevator, and goes 
to talk to the bigtime millers as a group. This is a 
producers’ cooperative, a good cheap way to buy 
gearlube in bulk, but mostly a marketing device. 
The Hoedads are a two-hundred person membership 
cooperative involved in the business of reforestation. 
They are legal, in the state of Oregon, bondable, 
mobile, and able to work thinning, planting, tubing, 
or slashpiling for the United States Department of 
Agriculture, (the Forest Service. 
. 
.. a bunch of 
inattentive tree farmers selling wood four or five 
generations of tree away from what is being planted). 
The Hoedads take their name from the basic tree 
planting tool, a long hoe affair with a curved handle 
like on a carpenter’s adze. Doesn’t take much of a 
linguist to figure out why it is called a hoedad. 
I’m not a Hoedad. The only tree I have planted since 
gradeschool Arbor Days was a three foot redwood the 
day after my daughter was born. | planted it under a 
PG&E powerline. Before you run off to become a 
Hoedad be advised that two hundred treeplanters in 
a work cooperative have some trouble keeping each 
other in work west of the Rockies. They don’t 
need the membership, even though it costs a thousand 
bucks to be a member, taken out of wages in a three 
year period. In April of this year, the Hoedads had 
five hundred thousand dollars worth of work under 
contract, most of it in planting. That sounds like a 
lot of money until you divide it by two hundred, six 
months, and the fact that climbing around the mess 
the loggers leave, poking in a tree every ten feet, can 
be shitty hard work. 
I first met a Hoedad in Idaho about two years ago. 
Idaho is where the Sierra Club is considered to be a 
bunch of Californians who live in big redwood houses 
and think that a tree screams when the chainsaw bites 
the bark. I was holed up at a hotsprings and working 
in a sawmill. The Hoedad hopped the rocks up a 
washed-out road beside the River of No Return, in a 
Japanese pickup truck, first rig to make it up the road 
that year. I baked the Hoedad a loaf of bread and 
stole her heart for awhile. 
This Spring I met her again, this time in the Mountain 
Tavern in Tiller, Oregon. She was late, so I had plenty 
of time to belly up to the beer, taste the jukebox, 
shoot pool with a helicopter pilot, and listen to the 
bartender’s tales of twenty hungry Hoedads ordering 
burgers: 
“Heck, I just got to where I’d hold the 
sandwich up, call out what was on it, and give it to 
the first person with the money. That much long 
hair I just can’t keep track of.” 
eae 
ames) 
of 
mae! 
siete 
's 
6 6d 
6 6 
\6 
6 
ms 
@) 
6 
6:6 
6 6 6 0 0 
6-0 
es 
¢ 6 6 0 0 
by J.D. Smith 
I was counting the beans in a half a bowl of chili 
when a pair of hands went over my eyes. Hoedad 
women are broad in the shoulder and hard of palm; 
I knew the lady I was waiting for was in the bar with 
me. We drank a few beers together, held hands, and 
tried to short circuit a few years with our eyes. More 
Hoedads started drifting in. Three crews were plant- 
ing in that area. There was talk of hundred dollar 
days, sunny soft slopes where a planter could scalp 
away the overburden on the clearcut, poke the hoe- 
dad down into the dirt, fit in a young seedling (two 
or three years old), and toe the dirt back into place 
fast enough to make, by piecework, a hundred bucks 
a day. Fat city. I was buying drinks. We were in the 
Umpqua National Forest. They were camped six or 
eight miles up the creek. Did I want to go to camp? 
THE CREW MEETING 
A Hoedad camp smacks of the New Depression. This 
one belonging to the Cheap Thrills crew was on an 
old landing, where the trucks had come to get the 
butchered timber when it had been logged. There 
were a couple of nice big warm canvas and lath yurts, 
a smaller tent, a vintage house truck, and a few light 
travel trailers. We tiptoed across boards plunked 
down over the wet areas and snuggled into my Mama’s 
quilts around the woodstove in the center of one of 
the yurts. Before sleep we talked of the dialectic, of 
the politics of doing what you mean to do, of the 
need for federations to supergroup the cooperatives 
in the northwestern part of Ecotopia, of the need for 
constant intention, which is to say: “Say what you 
mean, but mean what you say.” 
A little while before dawn I wandered outside to pee 
and waded into six inches of new wet snow. The 
Hoedads plant most of the winter in sloppy Oregon 
drizzle. Next to the hoedad and the tree sack, rain- 
gear is the important tool of a coastal reforester. 
You can’t plant trees in snow, though, because you 
can’t see where to put the trees. The Umpquas had 
ere ee ee 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
Wy, 
Sac 
Rightists and leftists gotta believe in libraries — 
for lefties they are the only property sharing thing, 
no qualifications, no strings, we’ve got going and 
it’s a sin to let it die. (Nineteenth century anar- 
chists pointed to free public libraries as the begin- 
ning of the revolution — and they were right, 
just because the rest of the revolution didn’t 
happen doesn’t mean that libraries aren’t a little 
bit of workers’ paradise now — when they’re open 
nights, so workers and not just club ladies can go.) 
And if conservatives want to believe that Horatio 
Alger can still make the big jump, that everybody 
has a chance if they work hard, they better have a 
library open for Horatio to study up on the skills 
of his choice and it better be close to his house 
because he’s tired and it better be open late. 
