LEARNING 
DRUGS 
Licit & Illicit Drugs 
PharmChem 
The Consumer Reports rundown on drugs — critical, 
intelligent, full of news. 
There’s no better general book 
anywhere on all the brain drugs — including nicotine 
and alcohol. (See alcoholism, p. 328.) 
Licit & Illicit Drugs 
’ 
Edward M. Brecher and 
y 
The Editors of 
Consumer Reports 
1974; 623 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid from: 
Little, Brown 
and Company 
200 West Street 
Waltham, MA 02154 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
A conscientious search of the United States medical 
literature throughout recent decades has failed to turn up 
a single scientific paper reporting that heroin overdose, as 
established by these or any other reasonable methods of 
determining overdose, is in fact a cause of death among 
American heroin addicts. ... 
But, beginning about 1943, 
a strange new kind of death began to make its appearance 
among heroin addicts. The cause of this new kind of 
death was not known, and remains unknown today — 
though it is now quite common. 
A striking feature of this mysterious new mode of death 
is its suddenness. 
Instead of occurring after one or more 
hours of lethargy, stupor, and coma, as in true overdose 
cases, death occurs within a few minutes or less — perhaps 
only a few seconds after the drug is injected. Indeed, 
“collapse-and death are so rapid,’’ one authority reports, 
“that the syringe was found in the vein of the victim or 
on the floor after having dropped out of the vein, and the 
tourniquet was still in place on the arm.” This explains 
in part why nalorphine and other narcotic antagonists, 
highly effective antidotes in true opiate overdose cases, 
are useless in the cases falsely labeled overdose. 
An even more striking feature of these mysterious deaths 
is a sudden and massive flooding of the lungs with fluid: 
pulmonary edema. 
In many cases it is not even necessary 
to open the lungs or X-ray them to find the edema; “‘an 
abundance of partly dried frothy white edema fluid [is 
seen] oozing from the nostrils or mouth’ when the body 
is first found. . 
. 
. Janis Joplin’s death, of course, was 
popularly attributed to ‘‘heroin overdose.”’ 
If the alcohol- 
barbiturate-heroin theory is correct, her fatal injection of 
heroin while drunk on alcohol was the prototype of many 
other deaths similarly mislabeled ‘‘overdose.” 
. 
. .1t might 
prove absurdly easy to confirm the alcohol-barbiturate 
hypothesis. 
All that might be necessary would be to 
addict a few monkeys or other primates to heroin, intoxi- 
cate them on alcohol or barbiturates, and then inject 
modest doses of heroin. 
If the monkeys drop dead of 
Syndrome X, a warning against shooting heroin while 
drunk on alcohol or barbiturates might save many 
hundreds of lives a year throughout the world. 
Cocaine Consumer’s Handbook 
At the moment, the Cocaine Consumer's Handbook wi// 
probably best prevent nose burn. 
There is, as yet, no 
good book on “cocaine base” — the alkaline form of 
cocaine that you smoke, don’t snort or shoot. 
This is 
rapidly becoming the most common method of recrea- 
tional intake for those who can afford it. 
—Peter Warshall 
Cocaine Consumer's 
Handbook 
David Lee 
1976, 53 pp. 
$5.45 postpaid from: 
And/Or Press 
P.O. Box 2246 
Berkeley, CA 94702 
on 
Clorox test: relatively 
Pure coke leaves milky 
white trails and dissolves 
before it hits the bottom. 
e 
Most users of cocaine use inhalation as the method of 
ingestion. This is accomplished by chopping the cocaine 
thoroughly and sniffing it into the nasal passages, either 
from a small spoon or through a straw. The nasal 
membranes suffer greatly with extended use and should 
be protected. When cocaine sits on the surface of the 
membrane covering the interior nasal and sinus passages, 
it will cause burns and sores. Over a period of time this 
can lead to the degeneration of the membranes and can 
also eat through the cartilage itself. 
It is helpful in 
preventing this condition to wash the nasal passages out 
with warm water before retiring for the evening. A light 
spray of warm water, using a vaporizer, during the period 
cocaine is used will be helpful in preventing damage and 
helps cocaine enter the system. 
If a large quantity is involved, the buyer should never 
make his purchase until after he has weighed and tested 
For dopers this is a critical service. Accurate analysis 
for $10 of any drug you send them (whilst preserving 
your anonymity). And a monthly newsletter of what 
theyre finding (misrepresentation, that’s what). 
—SB 
PharmChem 
NG Pat 
: 
arm 
em 
Laboratories 
Newsletter 
3925 Bohannon Drive 
$25 /year (10 issues) 
Menlo Park, CA 94025 
e 
Analysis Anonymous is a drug analysis service that pro- 
vides the public with unbiased, confidential information 
about the true content of illicit (‘‘street’’) drugs. Par- 
ticularly disturbing characteristics of the burgeoning 
street drug phenomenon are the continual appearance 
of new substances, widespread availability of dangerously 
adulterated and poorly synthesized drugs and intentional 
deception by illicit drug dealers. Test results on over a 
thousand drug samples submitted from throughout the 
United States have demonstrated the gross misrepresen- 
tation of drugs sold on the street. This flagrant dis- 
crepancy between the alleged and actual content of 
street drugs undoubtedly increases the number of over- 
doses and adverse reactions experienced by others; it 
also contributes to the dissemination of false and 
unreliable information about the effects of these drugs. 
Drug abuse professionals, educators, drug users and all 
others concerned with drug education are encouraged to 
support this service. 
How to use Analysis Anonymous: Wrap the equivalent of 
one dose in plastic wrap; place the sample in an envelope 
along with $10 (cash or money order) to cover the cost 
of analysis; and assign the sample a code consisting of 
5 random numbers followed by a letter of the alphabet. 
Please include information about the alleged content, 
street price, origin of sample (city and state), and note 
any undesirable side effects. 
If more than one sample, 
wrap each separately or mail in separate envelopes. Mark 
the envelope ‘’Hand Cancel” and send it to PharmChem, 
3925 Bohannon Drive, Menlo Park, CA 94025. The 
samples are qualitatively analyzed for approximately 
350 drugs and related compounds. Quantitative analyses 
(reporting of percentages of sample ingredients) are 
available upon request only by a possessor of the proper 
Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) license. Test results 
are obtained two days after the receipt of the sample 
by calling (415) 328-6200 and giving your number- 
letter code. 
Analysis Anonymous does not accept food, herb, or 
vitamin samples, nor do we test for the presence of 
insecticides or herbicides (e.g., Paraquat). The analysis 
fee for aqueous solutions alleged to contain a drug is 
$20; any other liquid would have to be individually 
determined by prearrangement. 
PharmChem’s philosophy is that Analysis Anonymous 
should benefit as many people as possible. Reporting the 
test results of a particular drug only to the individual who 
submitted it is of limited value. Consequently, summaries 
of results are published in the PharmChem Newsletter. 
The PharmChem Newsletter is a unique publication that 
features factual, timely information on licit and illicit 
drug use/abuse, drug legislation, and innovations in drug 
treatments, as well as result summaries of street drug 
samples analyzed by PharmChem’s confidential drug 
testing program, Analysis Anonymous. 
Laughing Gas 
Definitive funky text on a form of dope which is so 
handy, reliable, and adaptive (proceed hit by hit and 
flash by flash) that enthusiasts have kept mum on the 
subject for years. 
Includes delightful 
history, practical manufacture, 
and safety precautions. 
—SB 
Laughing Gas 
(Nitrous Oxide) 
M. Shedlin, D. 
Wallechinsky, 
S. Salyer, Editors 
1973; 
90 pp. 
And/Or Press 
P.O. Box 2246 
Berkeley, CA 94702 
Temporarily out of stock. 
Write for information. 
It is impossible to convey an idea of the torrential charac- 
ter of the identification of opposites as it streams through 
the mind in this experience. 
| have sheet after sheet of 
phrases dictated or written during the intoxication, 
which to the sober reader seem meaningless drivel, but 
which at the moment of transcribing were fused in the 
fire of infinite rationality. God and devil, good and evil, 
life and death, | and thou, sober and drunk, matter and 
form, black and white, quantity and quality, shiver of 
ecstasy and shudder of horror, vomiting and swallowing, 
inspiration and expiration, fate and reason, great and 
small, extent and intent, joke and earnest, tragic and 
comic, and fifty other contrasts figure in these pages in 
the same monotonous way. The mind saw how each term 
belonged to its contrast through a knife-edge moment 
of transition which it effected, and which, perennial and 
eternal, was the nunc stans of life. The thought of 
mutual implication of the parts in the bare form of a 
judgment of oppositions as ‘nothing — but,” ‘no more 
— than,” “Only — if,” etc. produced a perfect delirium 
of theoretic rapture. And at last, when definite ideas to 
work on come slowly, the mind went through the mere 
form of recognizing sameness in identity by contrasting 
the same word with itself, differently emphasized, or shorn 
of its initial letter. 
Let me transcribe a few sentences: 
What's mistake but a kind of take? 
What's nausea but a kind of -usea? 
Sober, drunk, -unk, astonishment. 
Everything can become the subject of criticism — how 
criticise without something to criticise? 
Agreement — disagreement!! 
Emotion — motion!!! 
By God, how that hurts By God, how it doesn’t hurt! 
Reconciliation of two extremes. 
By George, nothing but othing! 
That sounds like nonsense, but it is pure onsense! 
Thought deeper than speech... .! 
Medical school; divinity school, school! SCHOOL! 
Oh my God, oh God; oh God! 
EEE ————E————E—E—EE————————————— 
SSS 
it. The seller should always expect such tests in large 
transactions. 
If the transaction is relatively small (one 
gram or less), the situation can become delicate. The 
clorox test is ideal for such a situation as the amount of 
cocaine used in the test is minute and the results are both 
quick and clear. A small, tightly-capped bottle of clorox 
should always be with you when a purchase is made. 
If a test seems to annoy or offend the seller, the buyer 
could say he has violent allergic reactions to some sub- 
stances used to adulterate cocaine and must be quite 
certain of these agents are not present in his purchase. An 
explanation of this type makes taking offense difficult 
and is sufficient to any seller who has confidence in 
his product. 
SPCR 
eeE 
MUM 
TWie) 
(Cle 
le 
ene 
6 0 
0.1610 
6.0: 
6. 
© 
0,0 
6 @ OB 
8 
0. 
Cie 
6 8 0 € 8 
CuO 
eew 
Swe 
aw: 
The most coherent and articulate sentence which came 
was this: 
There are no differences of degree between different 
degrees of difference and no difference. 
—William James, 1882 
AG WELL, 1F YOU SMOKE, Youle 
> 
REPENS Lit BUTTS EVERHWHERE 
5 
POU 
STARE BLANKLY AFAR (Ko 
PSYCHEDELIC INFINITY 
DONT HIT UP Too SoON 
EATING , OR YOU 
MIGHT 
GET NAUSEOUS! 
DONT 6mMoKE, EITHER. 
WHILE HITTING OP. You 
(NG Ax AEROSOL CAN, HOLD 
IT UPRIGHT AND INJECT THe 
GAS 
DIRECTLY IND A 
ed 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
continued from last spread 
Things about tidelands: 
There are two stories about who built the first 
sculpture on the mudflats. One is that some 
unknown folks did it, maybe inspired by the 
sight of all the abandoned duck blinds against the 
sky, thinking it would be even more interesting 
if the wood wasn’t a rectangle but maybe a horse 
or adragon. The other story is that some artists 
at the California College of Arts and Crafts were 
having a discussion about whether sculpture could 
and should be made of found materials and later, 
one of the discussers, to prove his point, went to 
Emeryville and built a sculpture out of duck blind 
— 
arts. I find the second story unappealing and no 
un to the point of being offensive but I realize 
that that’s because I now find school as boring a 
notion as some people find mudflats. But art and 
school may be sometimes as messy and productive 
a combination as earth, air and water and just the 
place that some surprising new idea might crawl 
out of. 
continued on next spread 
Prose THe ALCON! Ts 
f See 
Nn 
Fe 
CANT OvERNiT FROM A 
