e 
Vg sas 
The Right Stuff 
Mind you, I’ve seen lots written about the astronauts, the 
program, the personalities, the challenge. Most of it bad 
and inaccurate, grinding some axe or other, some of it 
accurate and boring, and occasionally a good shot like 
Mike Collins’ Carrying the Fire. But nothing I’ve read 
paints the essential history as Tom Wolfe has done here. 
It’s far from a complete history since the subject (except 
for Pete Conrad who is too juicy to pass up) is the fabu- 
lous First Seven and the Mercury Program. Missing from 
view are the thousands of characters whose brains and 
determination got the program off the ground. But that’s 
classical history not Wolfeian. 
This is definitely written 
from the perspective of one “on the bus” — or “in the 
capsule” as it were. 
Wolfe has special prescription contact 
lenses that filter out the memoranda, meetings, reviews, 
milestones, simulators, procedures, checklists, protocols, 
etc., etc., and zoom in on Pete Conrad’s enema and Al 
Shepard’s enigmatic double personality. 
My own delight with the book came not only from the 
Tom Wolfe which many (if not most) people appreciate, 
but from the Tom Wolfe whom only those on the inside 
can appreciate. 
The subtle groupings and relationships 
between the characters which are captured in a turn of 
phrase or literary glance brought many slow smiles of 
amazement to my face. How could he have picked up 
such valid subtleties without having lived it? 
— Russell Schweickart 
(Apollo 9 Astronaut) 
The Right Stuff 
Tom Wolfe 
1979; 436 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid from: 
Farrar, Strauss 
and Giroux 
19 Union Square West 
New York, NY 10003 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
If the Sun Dies 
Philip Morrison, the peerless book reviewer for Scientific 
American, suggested this book by handing his copy to 
me. “Read it.” 
He’s right. 
It’s far the best book on space exploration, 
and | suspect it is Fallaci’s best work. She addresses 
herself throughout to her father, who loathes Space, and 
reaches him through the experiences they shared in the 
Italian Resistance during the war. 
Unlike most American 
reporters she has an unashamed perception of heroism, 
and she is abundantly dubious of the freeze-dried delights 
of American culture. 
It is thorough journalism. A year on the project (early, 
before the moon landing), she talked to the scientists, 
the engineers, the flacks, the astronauts especially, and to 
Ray Bradbury, who gave her the title. 
/t’s clear that the 
ones who weren’t scared of her loved her and said unsay- 
able things. (When I read Wally Schirra’s remarks aloud 
to Rusty Schweickart, his response was “| don’t believe 
it.”) Fallaci finds herself liking Von Braun in spite of 
politics, and adoring Deke Slayton who personally bombed 
her in Florence and is stricken by that. 
Violating her 
every European instinct, Pete Conrad sells her on 
fast-food cu/ture. 
It’s the chronicle of a conversion, reluctant, hard-fought, 
richly perceptive, convincing. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Philip Morrison] 
If the Sun Dies 
Oriana Fallaci 
1965; 400 pp. 
from: 
Atheneum Publishers 
Out of Print 
GET THIS BOOK BACK 
IN PRINT! 
So Conrad reports at seven one morning and gives himself 
the enema. 
He’s supposed to undergo a lower gastrointes- 
tinal tract examination that morning. In the so-called 
lower G.|. examination, barium is pumped into the sub- 
ject’s bowels; then a little hose with a balloon on the end 
of it is inserted in the rectum, and the balloon is inflated, 
blocking the canal to keep the barium from forcing its 
way out before the radiologist can complete his examina- 
tion. After the examination, like everyone who has ever 
been through the procedure, Conrad now feels as if there 
are eighty-five pounds of barium in his intestines and they 
are about to explode. The Smocks inform him that there 
is no john on this floor. He’s supposed to pick up the 
tube that is coming out of his rectum and follow an 
orderly, who will lead him to a john two floors below. 
On the tube there is a clamp, and he can release the 
clamp, deflating the balloon, at the proper time. 
/t’s 
unbelievable! To try to walk, with this explosive load 
sloshing about in you pelvic saddle, is agony. Neverthe- 
less, Conrad has on only the standard bed patient's tunic, 
the angel robes, open up the back. The tube leading out 
of his tail to the balloon gizmo is so short that he has to 
hunch over to about two feet off the floor to carry it in 
front of him. His tail is now, as the saying goes, flapping 
in the breeze, with a tube coming out of it. The orderly 
has on red cowboy boots. Conrad is intensely aware of 
that fact, because he is now hunched over so far that his 
eyes hit the orderly at about calf level. He’s hunched 
over, with his tail in the breeze, scuttling like a crab after 
a pair of red cowboy boots. Out into a corridor they go, 
an ordinary public corridor, the full-moon hunchback 
and the red cowboy boots, amid men, women, children, 
nurses, nuns, the lot. The red cowboy boots are begin- 
ning to trot along like mad. The orderly is no fool. He's 
been through this before. He’s been through the whole 
disaster. He’s seen the explosions. Time is of the essence. 
There's a hunchback stick of dynamite behind him. To 
Conrad it becomes more incredible every step of the way. 
They actually have to go down an elevator — full of sane 
people — and do their crazy tango through another public 
hallway — agog with normal human beings — before 
finally reaching the goddamned john. 
e 
"God," he says, “you .. 
. look awfu/!"" The Good Samar- 
itan, A.A.D.! Also a Doctor! And he just gave his diag- 
nosis! That's all 
aman needs... to be forty years old 
e 
“| love the Earth, do you understand? | love the leaves 
and the birds, the fish and the sea, the snow and the wind! 
And | love green and blue and all the colors and the smells, 
and that’s all there is, do you understand? That's all we 
have, and | don’t want to lose it on account of your 
rockets, do you understand?” 
You grew white with anger. And your every muscle 
warned me to be quiet, not to go on with my nonsense. 
But | couldn’t keep quiet any longer: it was as if a war, a 
gulf, had opened up between us. And | told you, though 
| don’t know if these were my words, that | love the 
Earth too, Father. 
It’s my home and | love it. Buta 
home you can never leave isn’t a home at all, it's a prison, 
and you have always told me that man isn’t made to stay 
in prison, he’s made to escape from it and too bad if he 
risks getting killed escaping. 
e 
“Don’t pay any attention to people who tell you they 
have such a wild look because of tension, of exhaustion, 
of joy at having made it. It’s got nothing to do with these 
things. 
It’s only rage at having come back to Earth. As 
if up there they’re not only freed from weight, from the 
force of gravity, but from desires, affections, passions, 
ambitions, from the body. Do you know that for months 
John and Wally and Scott went around looking at the 
sky? You could speak to them and they didn’t answer, 
you could touch them on the shoulder and they didn’t 
notice: their only contact with the world was a dazed, 
absent, happy smile. They smiled at everything and 
everybody, and they were always tripping over things. 
They kept tripping over things because they never had 
their eyes on the ground.” 
“You seem to know them well,” | exclaimed. 
“Sure | know them well!” she said. 
“What did you say your name was?” | persisted. 
"| didn’t say,” she replied, amused. ‘My name’s O'Hara. 
Dee O'Hara. 
| am the astronauts’ nurse.” 
e 
“We need art as we need dreams,”’ Wally Schirra concluded. 
“Dreams? Did you say dreams?” 
“Without our dreams we wouldn't be where we are: 
dreaming of going to other planets, to other solar systems, 
and finding other Earths, our Earth, among billions of stars.”” 
“Our Earth? Did you say our Earth?” 
“Certainly. Because it’s our Earth, it'll always be our 
Earth that we're looking for, it'll always be our Earth that 
we discover. | don’t dream about the Moon. | know 
enough about the Moon to know how unpleasant and 
inhospitable it is. There’s not one bit of Moon that’s 
worth the Earth or that we could bring back to Earth as a 
trace of civilization. 
| don’t dream about Mars. | know 
and to fall one hundred goddamned thousand feet in a 
flat spin and punch out and make a million-dollar hole 
in the ground and get half his head and his hand 
burned up and have his eye practically ripped out 
of his skull 
. 
. 
. and have the Good Samaritan, A.A.D., 
arrive as if sent by the spirit of Pancho Barnes herself to 
render a midnight verdict among the motherless Joshua 
trees while the screen doors bang and the pictures of a 
hundred dead pilots rattle in their frames: ‘‘My God! 
... you look awful.” 
A few minutes later the rescue helicopter arrived. The 
medics found Yeager standing out in the mesquite, him 
and some kid who had been passing by. Yeager was 
standing erect with his parachute rolled up and his helmet 
in the crook of his arm, right out of the manual, and 
staring at them quite levelly out of what was left of his 
face, as if they had had an appointment and he was on time. 
e 
Shepard waited for another stop in the countdown — 
this time it was to wait for some clouds to pass over the 
launch area — and he announced his problem over the 
closed radio circuit. He said he wanted to relieve his 
bladder. 
Finally they told him to go ahead and “‘do it 
in the suit.’ And he did. Because his seat, or couch, was 
angled back slightly, the flood headed north, toward his 
head, carrying consternation with it. The flood set off a 
suit thermometer, and the freon flow jumped from 30 to 
45. On swept the flood until it hit his left lower chest 
sensor, which was being used to record his electrocardio- 
gram, and it knocked that sensor out partially, and the 
doctors were nonplused. The news of the flood rushed 
through the worlds of the Life Science specialists and the 
suit technicians, like the destruction of Krakatoa, west of 
Java. There was no stopping it now. The wave rolled on, 
over rubber, wire, rib, flesh, and ten thousand baffled 
nerve endings, finally pooling in the valley up the middle 
of Shepard’s back. Gradually it cooled, and he could feel 
a cool lake of urine in the valley. In any case, the dis- 
comfort in his bladder was gone and everything was still. 
They had not scratched the flight because of the dam 
break. He had not fucked up. 
The next thing the medical team knew, a voice was 
coming over the closed loop, their private radio linkup 
with the Mercury capsule: 
“Weh-ayl ...1’m a wetback now.” 
enough about Mars to know that you can’t live there, you 
can’t settle it. Mars and the Moon are two ugly islands. 
So then, you say, what's the point of going to them? The 
point is to be able to say I've been there, I’ve set foot on 
them and I can go further, to look for beautiful islands 
. 
. .”’ 
e 
Wally Shirra: 
‘‘Feeling weightless 
. 
. 
. | don’t know, it’s so 
many things together. A feeling of pride, of healthy 
solitude, of dignified freedom from everything that's 
dirty, sticky. You feel exquisitely comfortable, that’s the 
word for it, exquisitely 
... You feel comfortable and 
you feel you have so much energy, such an urge to do 
things, such ability to do things. And you work well, 
yes, you think well, you move well, without sweat, 
without difficulty, as if the biblical curse /n the sweat of 
thy face and in sorrow no longer exists. As if you've 
been born again.” 
e 
We must be ready to meet an intelligence and a justice 
that are the fruits of different evolutions. 
For example, 
we must forget our principle of ‘Don’t treat others as you 
wouldn't like to be treated” and establish instead a 
principle that says ‘‘Treat them as they would like to be 
treated.’ The first thing they want, seeing that they’re 
alive, is to live; so we mustn’t kill them, we mustn't land 
on their territory in such a way as to damage it, we 
mustn't go there at all if we aren’t invited. 
e 
“Don’t you pray?” 
Pete Conrad scratched his anchor, revealed his wide- 
spaced teeth. 
“Well, not in swimming pools. Nor in churches either. 
| mean, | don’t go to church and all that. But as for 
believing, | believe just the same, we all believe, more or 
less, even those who say: | don’t believe in a thing, neither 
Heaven nor Hell nor anything. But I'd like to see them 
when... Boy! At least three times I’ve nearly crashed and 
each time | commended myself to God like crazy. Those 
damn controls wouldn't be working one goddam bit and 
I'd pray to God, make them work, God! And you want 
to know something? 
| believe God helped me, that He 
made them work, those controls that weren't working: 
because | was really going to crash. 
It’s the same, you 
see, with the Moon. You fool around, you joke about it, 
but when you think about actually going to the Moon 
the first thing you do is ask God’s help. Then the second 
thing is you thank Him.” 
“But what if He doesn’t help?”’ 
“Dammit! You thank Him anyway. 
It’s good manners. 
If | ask you for a match and you don’t give it to me, | 
thank you anyway, don’t |? It’s good manners. So | ask 
myself, why should | be polite to you and not to God?” 
