those fifty or so books.) Again it’s the fast-buck, 
quantity-kills-quality syndrome. Small publishing 
houses make their living by keeping slow-but- 
steady selling books on the market. 
The big 
houses make their killing by dropping a book as 
soon as its sales fall below a certain point. Asa 
publicity lady at Crown put it, “Why are you 
reviewing our old books? Didn’t you get the new 
ones we sent you?” Yes, lady, we did. They were 
inferior. 
Please keep the good ones in print, and 
revised, and promoted, and appreciated for the 
reputation they’ve made for your house. 
It’s an idle sermon. 
Staff turnover is so rapid in 
big time publishing, continuity doesn’t have a 
chance. 
In 1977 we made an elaborate contract 
for co-publishing with Penguin and put out two 
books with them (Space Colonies and Soft Tech). 
Two years later they had had so many new genera- 
tions of senior people that no one even knew we 
had a contract. When shown the thing, they had 
zero interest in honoring it. (Apart from the 
decision-level discontinuity, our relationship with 
Penguin was an excellent one.) 
Large scale boom and bust. Small scale adapt- 
ability. From tool distribution to publishing to 
farming to neighborhood preservation, there is 
no doubt this is the major theme of the Whole 
Earth Catalog. 
/t’s in our own history. Though 
we are now distributed through New York, there’s 
no way in hell we could have started in New York. 
Our first Catalogs (1968 - 1970) were made by 
three hippies in a garage and distributed by a local 
long-hair wholesaler (Bookpeople, Berkeley). We 
still are self-published. And New York tells us 
The Last Whole Earth Catalog invented the trade 
paperback. 
Interesting. 
The Last Catalog enjoyed uniformly favorable 
notices, but, um (open wide, please, Gift Horse), 
their frequent superficiality is worth a look. We 
were touted as the voice of Back-to-the-Land and 
linked commonly with (the to us rather odious) 
Mother Earth News. Back-to-Basics certainly is a 
major point we make, but so is Onward-and- 
Upward (space, computers, electronic music), 
and Outward-in-All-Directions-So-Long-As-/t- 
Doesn‘t-Hurt-Anybody-Probably. 
What I’m trying to get at is, the American review- 
ing apparatus is not good at reference books, 
which tend to be treated (as we were and probably 
will be) as news items, if at all. The sensational 
first two volumes (Northwest and California) of 
the Smithsonian’s Handbook of North American 
Indians (p. 45) have been out since 1978 and 
reviewed nowhere. 
/n the course of researching 
opinion on our favorite dictionary, The American 
Heritage Dictionary (p. 498), / had to rely on 
technical library publications from R.R. Bowker 
to find any insightful critique. 
| expect that many reviewers of The Next Catalog 
will, as | probably would, settle for reviewing this 
preface, making a few observations about the 
passing and coming of decades, and letting it go 
at that. 
That’s fine, and thank you, but it leaves 
unaddressed the question of whether the Next 
Catalog /s any use as a tool. Actually that can be 
accomplished by two quick probes. Look up a 
subject area you know something about and see 
whether our reviewers know as much or more 
than you do or anyway enough. And look up a 
subject area unknown to you and see whether we 
can get you interested in it. 
| probably shouldn’t knock American reviewing 
practice too much, because its failings are our 
stock in trade, but does anyone else think it odd 
that mail order suppliers are almost never critiqued 
in print? Or that magazines are noticed by other 
magazines only when they die? Or that the truly 
classic books in most fields don’t have primary 
reviews to urge them on? 
Consider the various experiences of three classic 
classics. Wolfgang Langewiesche’s 1944 intro- 
duction to flying, Stick and Rudder (p. 459), is 
so graceful and imaginative and fundamental that 
it has needed no revision to remain the leading 
text in its field. Because it lives robustly on 
unreviewed, people at large have no way of 
knowing that the wisdom of the book, like 
Zen and the Art of Archery, reaches far outside 
its specialty. 
For contrast there’s John Muir’s How to Keep 
Your Volkswagen Alive. An intelligent, enter- 
taining, amateur and self-published work, it got 
the Whole Earth Catalog treatment when it came 
out in 1969 — full page review in Life, etc. Asa 
result the book is in its 21st printing (p. 406), with 
sales over 1.3 million, and it has inspired a whole 
literature by now of imaginative how-to books. 
But then there’s A Pattern Language, 7977, by 
Christopher Alexander (p. 217). 
It enjoys such 
biblical status among architects and designers 
that they refer to its rules by number. “15” means 
“Encourage the formation of a boundary around 
each neighborhood.” “160” means “Treat the 
edge of a building as a ‘thing,’ a ‘place,’ a zone 
with volume to it.” It’s a book that should be in 
the hands of every citizen, city dweller, home 
builder, office worker. 
It’s the only book in the 
Next Catalog that has a whole page all to itself. 
But since hardly anyone else is reviewing it to 
the general public, its best use (by amateurs) 
scarcely exists. 
The 
Ineluctable. 
Extreme 
Culminant 
Whole Earth 
This may not seem like much right now... But wait 
15 or 20 years, it might come in handy. 
—Tom Parker 
TOM 
PARKER 
Reviewing is not a particularly honored activity, 
for good reason, but it surely has its rewards, the 
most conspicuous of which is the gratitude you 
encounter when someone is glad you alerted them 
to something that made a big difference. Doug 
Roomian is one we read about in the newspapers. 
On the front page of the June 15, 1980 San Fran- 
cisco Examiner the “great guitar maker” told his 
origin story. Around 1970, while living with a 
group of anti-draft Americans in Canada, he “was 
reading the Whole Earth Catalog, the magazine of 
the craft generation, and it had a way of making 
every thing seem so integral — celestializing mun- 
dane jobs. Cherry picking was karmic.” Our 
description of a book on guitar making got to him. 
After he returned to San Francisco he started a 
business where, for over $1000 an instrument, 
you can buy some of the best-sounding guitars 
anywhere. Research Editor Art Kleiner, with 
customary thoroughness, got in touch with the 
guy. 
You will find Doug Roomian’s survey of 
instrument makers on pp. 474 - 475, come full 
circle. (Curious footnote —how come the com- 
mon word for instrument maker, “Juthier,” is 
not in any dictionary?) 
We had two reporters visit at length during the 
assembling of the Next Catalog, and / watched 
with interest how they would be received by the 
overworked, overcrowded staff. Calvin Fentress, 
from Esquire and whom we /iked a lot, always 
seemed to be asking each of us, “What does it 
all mean?” Linda Xiques, from the local weekly 
The Pacific Sun, a/so had only one question, 
which she addressed in due course to each staff 
member — “What are you doing right now?” 
We felt that she got the better information. 
But then that’s our style. We‘re generalists hope- 
lessly in love with details. 
Fortunately for us it’s 
also the national style, as American as cherry pie 
(how to cook it really well, where to find organic- 
ally grown cherries, how to grow cherry trees, 
when to prune and pick ...). 
It is karmic, isn’t it? 
—Stewart Brand (SB) 
Rising Sun Neighborhood Newsletter 
You will note that at the lower right hand corner 
of every spread (pair of facing pages) in this 
Catalog there is something consistently peculiar 
going on. 
It isa gossip column. 
The items you 
see have been excerpted from two years or so of 
such Newsletters, which are mustering toward a 
book. Most of the items are factual, really 
happened. 
Those in the whole /atter part of the 
Catalog took place during the very making of the 
Catalog and star the makers, backstage. All part of 
our arch-mission to make all processes transparent. 
The author is Anne Herbert, Production Editor 
on this Catalog and Assistant Editor of 
CoEvolution for several years. We got her by 
mail order. She wrote from Ohio, sent some 
writing, said we’d be glad if we hired her, so 
we did and we are. 
coe 
eee 
eee 
ee 
ee eee eee 
eee eee eee eeee 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
e 
wh 
oeeeee 
oeoeeee 
oceeeree 
eee 
eee 
I was thinking that TV cameras are making us see 
only things kind of far away, and I was thinking 
that magazines are making us hear things only if 
they’ve been written down by someone we don’t 
know, and I was thinking that newspapers are 
making us value only people we haven’t met, so I 
started thinking we should start writing, drawing, 
painting, singing, shouting what we notice about 
the neighborhood right here to each other every 
day and maybe it will help us start to learn to 
treasure what we can also touch. 
PREFACE 
5 
