a age 
STORIES _ 
World Tales 
Once upon a time, there was a peasant woman with such 
kindly neighbors that she lacked for no comfort save one, 
and that was her regret that she had nothing to offer in 
return for their many favors. 
One night a voice came to the peasant woman in her 
dream, saying, “Unto you will be given a treasure of 
inestimable worth that will increase its value insofar as 
you share it with your neighbors.“’ The woman wondered 
exceedingly at this. And the next day a brown messenger 
delivered a book to the peasant woman. 
Being of humble 
origin, the woman did not perceive that the volume was 
bewitched, and could not know the nature of its enchant- 
ment. Seeing only that it was lovely to behold, she called 
her neighbors and opened the volume to display to them 
the good fortune which had so unexpectedly befallen her. 
But the nature of the book’s enchantment was this; that 
when she had begun to read the very first page, her heart 
was filled with such delight and wonder that she could 
not stop reading, and the hearts of her neighbors were 
likewise so filled with delight and wonder that they 
gathered like crows in the corn and caused her to read 
until her voice crept into a corner of her throat to hide, 
and then they took it in turns to read among themselves 
to each other. And always when the last page was turned, 
there were newcomers in the multitude desiring to hear 
the pages they had missed, and thus the book fulfilled its 
enchantment in that from the day of its opening it was 
never closed again, and the tales from its pages were ever 
told and told anew by the neighbors and the neighbors’ 
neighbors, and the neighbors’ neighbors’ neighbors of 
that realm. And the peasant woman lived her days in 
joy for the gift of a treasure whose worth increased 
by sharing it. 
Interpretation: the brown messenger was the UPS man, 
and the book, World Tales. 
The peasant woman is me. All 
the rest is true. 
This is a rare and magical book, beautiful 
to look at and impossible to put down. Each story is 
more wondrous than the last, embellished — adorned, 
really — with extravagant pictures by a variety of artists 
in the tradition of the illustrated book or illuminated 
manuscript. 
Idries Shah’s tales about each tale, showing 
where and when each story has unaccountably occurred 
in widely diverse cultures over vast reaches of time, are 
as mysterious and wonderful 
as the tales themselves. 
—Carol Van Strum 
World Tales 
(The Extraordinary 
Coincidence of Stories 
Told In All Times, In 
All Places) 
Collected by Idries Shah 
1979; 259 pp. 
$19.95 postpaid from: 
Harcourt Brace 
Jovanovich 
757 Third Avenue 
New York, NY 10017 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Jonathan Livingston Seagull 
A Blood woman told me, “Behind the Sun is the real 
Sun.” This book is about flight that way. Beyond 
perfection of technique is another perfection, a further 
freedom, another discipline. Jonathan eventually has to 
insist he is not the Son of the Great Gull. 
—SB 
Jonathan Livingston 
Seagull 
Richard Bach 
1970; 93 pp. 
$2.50 postpaid from: 
Avon Books 
Mail Order Department 
250 West 55th Street 
New York, NY 10019 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
And so they flew in from the west that morning, eight of 
them in a double-diamond formation, wingtips almost 
overlapping. They came across the Flock’s Council 
Beach at a hundred thirty-five miles per hour, Jonathan 
in the lead, Fletcher smoothly at his right wing, Henry 
Calvin struggling gamely at his left. Then the whole 
formation rolled slowly to the right, as one bird . 
. 
. level 
_..to...inverted...to... 
level, the wind whipping 
over them all. 
The squawks and grockles of everyday life in the Flock 
were cut off as though the formation were a giant knife, 
and eight thousand gull-eyes watched, without a single 
blink. One by one, each of the eight birds pulled sharply 
upward into a full loop and flew all the way around to a 
dead-slow stand-up landing on the sand. 
The Silent Couple 
Once upon a time there was a newly-married couple; still 
dressed in their wedding finery, they relaxed in their new 
home when the last of the guests at their feast had left. 
“Dear husband,” said the young lady, ‘‘do go and close 
the door to the street, which has been left open.” 
“Me shut it?” said the groom, ‘’a bridegroom in this 
splendid costume, with a priceless robe and a dagger 
studded with jewels? How could | be expected to do 
such a thing? You must be out of your mind. Go and 
shut it yourself.”” 
“So!” shouted the bride, ‘‘ you expect me to be your 
slave: a gentle, beautiful creature like me, wearing a 
dress of finest silk — that | should get up on my wedding 
day and close a door which looks onto the public street? 
Impossible.” 
They were both silent for a moment or two, and the 
lady suggested that they should make the problem the 
subject of a forfeit. Whoever spoke first, they agreed, 
should be the one to shut the door. 
There were two sofas in the room, and the pair settled 
themselves, face to face, one on each, sitting mutely 
looking at one another. 
They had been in this posture for two or three hours when 
a party of thieves came by and noticed that the door 
was open. The robbers crept into the silent house, which 
—_—— 
The Man Who Kept Cigars in His Cap 
Life is made of peculiar events — not hilarious as TV 
would like us to believe — but peculiar. 
The stuff of 
stories worth listening to, if they are well told. Jim 
Heynen, most recently of Idaho and now living in Port 
Townsend, Washington, can tell a good story. 
His new 
book contains forty-odd stories of the old tradition: 
short, touching renditions of youths finding out how the 
world works and adults struggling to stay in it. Such tales 
can arise from urban settings and do so, but these happen 
to be of a rural nature. 
Mr. Heynen had the good fortune 
to be raised in a farming community, where life is richer 
and includes the amazing feats of animals and the odd 
behavior of tolerated neighbors (even if The Man Who 
Sharpened Saws had the unfounded reputation for being 
a communist, he nevertheless was too good a craftsman 
for anyone to ignore). 
“The Boys” in The Man Who Kept Cigars in His Cap 
move through their families and community, bearing 
witness and generating changes. 
They watched the men 
try to save a bloated cow and then came up with their 
own method. 
It worked. 
They spied on the woman who 
made such perfect little waves on the edges of her pie 
crusts and found out how she did it. They attempted to 
deliver justice and found the world to be more compli- 
cated than it appeared. 
Their best efforts could not save 
a wounded animal. 
The portrayal of the man who walked his stallion around 
on the breeding circuit evokes equal amounts of dignity 
and tragedy. Are these stories nostalgic? | suggest no. 
Based as they are on experiences and responses occuring 
anywhere at anytime, they resemble legends more than 
anything. Any good story is but a skillfully reworked 
legend, adapted to local conditions. And legends 
don’t age. 
—Terry Lawhead 
Pate 
} 
? 
! 
The Man Who Kept 
Cigars in His Cap 
Jim Heynen 
1979; 
61 pp. 
$4.50 postpaid from: 
Graywolf Press 
P.O. Box 142 
Port Townsend, WA 98368 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
i 
seemed so deserted, and began to load themselves with 
every portable object of any value which they could find. 
The bridal couple heard them come in, but each thought 
that the other should attend to the matter. Neither of 
them spoke or moved as the burglars went from room to 
room, until at length they entered the sitting room and 
at first failed to notice the utterly motionless couple. 
Still the pair sat there, while the thieves collected all 
the valuables, and even rolled up the carpets under 
them. Mistaking the idiot and his stubborn wife for 
wax dummies, they stripped them of their personal jewels 
—and still the couple said nothing at all. 
The thieves made off, and the bride and her groom sat on 
their sofas throughout the night. Neither would give up. 
When daylight came, a policeman on his beat saw the 
open street door and walked into the house. Going 
from room to room he finally came upon the pair and 
asked them what was happening. Neither man nor 
wife deigned to reply. 
The policeman called massive reinforcements and the 
swarming custodians of the law became more and more 
enraged at the total silence, which to them seemed 
obviously a calculated affront. 
’ The officer in charge at last lost his temper and called 
out to one of his men: 
‘Give that man a blow or two, 
and get some sense out of him!” 
At this the wife could not restrain herself: 
‘Please, kind 
officers’’ 
she cried, “‘do not strike him—heis my husband!” 
“| won!"’ shouted the fool immediately, ‘‘so you have to 
shut the door!” 
When my son Aaron, 15, began to neglect most of his 
homework and talk gravely of his activities in “D & D” 
as if they were important, | decided to take a look. He 
and his friends were certainly not louting around doing 
nothing, they were completely serious and spending as 
much time as they could at the game. 
/t turns out that 
they are not alone. A vigorous subculture phenomenon 
based on D & D and other fantasy war games is spreading 
across the USA and the world. 
The thousands of players 
are served by a host of books, a growing number of 
specialty magazines, and retail outlets purveying the 
necessary trappings for interesting play. Though it is 
possible to play a shallow game by hard and fast rules as 
in chess, the fascination is in top-level games that exer- 
cise the imagination and require accumulated expertise. 
Aaron, who is considered to be a top-level player, asserts 
that most grownups would quickly meet their match. 
It 
is far beyond being kid stuff. 
If you think it is, | invite 
you to give ita try. 
What makes D & D a challenge is that the rules are 
incredibly complicated, and they are constantly evolving. 
Then too, there is “game time” and “‘real time”; for 
instance, if two characters marry, they have to wait a 
realtime month before the baby can be played. There are 
escalations in weapon and counterweapon, changes in 
the powers of characters and a constant development 
of traps and tricks. 
If a player doesn’t participate for a 
month, he may be severely obsolete! Characters accumu- 
late “experience” from game to game as they gather or 
lose points. 
The shifts in power are recorded ina book 
that players keep and carry to the game no matter where 
the location. 
The magazines keep everyone informed 
as to latest developments. 
The complexity and time demands of D & D effectively 
make the players into an elite that is open to the unin- 
volved only to the extent they are willing to participate 
in depth. Many are not willing, though there is a growing 
adult contingent. 
(Not many women though... the 
game tends to the macho.) Staid adults are excluded 
even more thoroughly from the D & D culture than they 
were from hard rock in a previous generation; you can’t 
just listen in or play a tape while the kid is away. An 
extensive jargon also adds to the exclusive aspect of D & D. : 
I’m nota psychologist, but | think it may be significant 
that the players are so deeply into the realization of a 
fantasy world consisting mainly of contest, violence and 
aggression, and that they do this with a spirit noticeably 
missing from most of their other duties in the real world. 
I’m not sure if it’s good or bad or if it matters. 
(Aaron 
says it’s no worse than chess or Go.) Certainly putting a 
lot of effort into something that encourages imaginative 
thought can’t be all bad, and frankly | think the players 
may be learning more from D & D than from much of 
what passes as education these days. | can tell you that 
if | were 15, I’d be into it up tomy ears! 
—J. Baldwin 
Dropping in to an RPG (role-playing game) store is the 
easiest way to glimpse the kaleidoscopic surface of the 
D & D phenomenon. 
(Check your phone directory under 
“games.”) The store is usually busy with obsessed kids 
