| and Thou 
You can read | and Thou jn two hours and not get over 
it for the rest of your life. Buber tells you how you stand, 
either in a dialogical relationship with the Creative Force 
or in a position of “havingness” where you are a thing 
bounded by other things. 
—Ken Kesey 
‘ 
A discovery more prime than Ejinstein’s Relativity is 
Buber’s distinction between the “experience” of |-/t and 
the “relation” of |-You. 
/t can cure at once the twin 
pathologies of Transcendent God and Controllable Nature. 
} 
In “l-You” 
is the possibility of love that does not possess, 
4 
as well as the realest perception of learning, which is 
coevolution. Martin Buber’s original German torrent is 
: 
well served by the translation 
j 
and prologue by 
Walter 
Kaufmann. —SB 
| and Thou 
Martin Buber 
‘ 
1970; 185 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid from: 
Charles Scribner's Sons 
Vreeland Avenue 
Totowa, NJ 07512 
e 
| perceive something. 
| feel something. 
| imagine some- 
thing. | want something. 
| sense something. 
| think 
something. The life of a human being does not consist 
merely of all this and its like. 
All this and its like is the basis of the realm of It. 
But the realm of You has another basis. 
e 
When | confront a human being as my You and speak the 
basic word I|-You to him, then he is no thing among things 
nor does he consist of things. 
He is no longer He or She, limited by other Hes and Shes, 
a dot in the world grid of space and time, nor a condition 
that can be experienced and described, a loose bundle of 
named qualities. Neighborless and seamless, he is You 
and fills the firmament. Not as if there were nothing but 
he; but everything else lives in Ajs light. 
e 
In truth language does not reside in man but man stands 
in language and speaks out of it. 
e 
Extended, the lines of relationships intersect in the 
eternal You. Every single You is a glimpse of that. 
Through every single You the basic word addresses the 
eternal You. 
fis 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
| AND THOU 
e 
A man’s relation to the “particular something” that 
arrogates the supreme throne of his life’s values, pushing 
eternity aside, is always directed toward the experience 
and use of an It, a thing, an object of enjoyment. 
For 
only this kind of relation can bar the view to God, by 
interposing the impenetrable It-world; the relationship 
that says You always opens it up again. 
Whoever says You does not have something for his object. 
For wherever there is something there is also another 
something; every It borders on other Its; It is only by 
virtue of bordering on others. But where You is said 
there isno something. You has no borders. 
Whoever says You does not have something; he has 
nothing. 
But he stands in relation. 
e 
Throughout all of this the tree remains my object and has 
its place and its time span, its kind and condition. 
But it can also happen, if will and grace are joined, that 
as | contemplate the tree | am drawn into a relation, and 
the tree ceases to be an It. The power of exclusiveness 
has seized me. 
The Tao of Science 
No high-minded bridging of East West, this. Buta success- 
ful director of research showing how valuable an informed 
and experienced Taoist sense of harmony can be to the 
conduct of science, 
/t can help balance the scientist, 
and it offers an avenue to balancing the application of 
what the scientist learns. Don’t confuse this book with 
the more specialized (but also worthy) book by Fritjof 
Capra, The Tao of Physics. For R.G.H. Siu on “power,” 
see page 397. 
—S8 
The Tao of Science 
(An essay on Western 
knowledge and 
Eastern wisdom) 
R.G.H. Siu 
1957; 180 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
The M.1.T. Press 
28 Carleton Street 
Cambridge, Mass. 02142 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Ryle stresses the unreality of the dualistic mental-physical 
world of Descartes. Ryle claims it to be a category mis- 
take, which is illustrated by the following story: A visitor 
to a university was shown the laboratories, the dormitories, 
the library, the classrooms, and the rest of the campus. 
Upon the completion of the tour, he appeared perplexed 
and inquired of his guide: 
‘I’ve seen where the experi- 
ments are carried out, where the students live and study, 
where the bills are paid and all that. But where is the 
university?” The guide had to explain that the univer- 
sity is not another collateral institution. 
It is simply the 
coordinated working of all he saw. 
It does not belong in 
the same category as the constituent departments. Ryle 
goes on to show that it is a family of radical mistakes of 
this type that is responsible for the dualism of Descartes 
which envisions a mental ghost ensconced within a 
physical machine. 
Let us distill the previous deliberations. We have touched 
upon the ancient roots of modern science. We have 
uncovered the shaky uncertainties on which her facts and 
methodologies are grounded. We have observed the 
pitfalls in the use of logic, especially when shrouded in 
the ambiguities of language. We have alluded to the 
inability of science to clarify the deeper significance of 
life. We have hinted at a deepening wedge that the 
abstractive domination of modern science is driving 
between herself and humanity. At the same time, we 
have searched encouraging avenues for a renaissance of 
science in devotion to the welfare of man. There is the 
negative method of education, imparting a deep awareness 
of nature without jeopardizing the development of 
specialists. There is the Median Way of leadership. There 
are the reassessed contributions of organized research. 
There is the expanded freedom of growth in social effort. 
There is no-knowledge. 
e 
An executive should develop the state of self-forgetfulness 
and purge away every taint of self-consciousness. This 
will enable him to let go of himself and latch on to the 
dreams of others. He should not emulate that self-oriented 
character in Hawthorne’s story, The /nte/ligence Office, 
who is continually crying out, “Il want my place, my own 
place, my proper sphere, my thing to do, which nature 
intended me to perform when she fashioned me thus 
awry and which I had vainly sought all my life.” 
Dreams fall upon the mind of the philosopher-executive 
like a scene upon a clear mirror. Only after they have 
been given the freedom of their full impact is his entire 
experience, including the dream, conjured forth in a novel 
totality. 
In this way the dream does not become merely 
an accretion to experience like a barnacle to a ship. 
It is assimilated in a recasting of the entirety into a 
fresh harmony. 
Man and His Symbols 
Carl Jung did a nice thing just before he died. He helped 
with a British effort to bring all of his work together in 
one richly illustrated introduction to the breadth of his 
realm. 
This book covers his concepts of the unconscious, 
myths, individuation, the visual arts, dreams, and analysis. 
Why 
aren’t all psychology books illustrated? 
—SB 
A still more subtle manifestation of a negative anima 
appears in some fairy tales in the form of a princess who 
asks her suitors to answer a series of riddles or, perhaps, 
to hide themselves under her nose. 
If they cannot give 
the answers, or if she can find them, they must die — and 
she invariably wins. The anima in this guise involves men 
in a destructive intellectual game. We can notice the 
effect of this anima trick in all those neurotic pseudo- 
intellectual dialogues that inhibit a man from getting into 
direct touch with life and its real decisions. He reflects 
about life so much that he cannot live it and loses all his 
spontaneity and outgoing feeling. 
e 
Oh, come, lonely hunter in the stillness of dusk. 
Come, come! 
| miss you, | miss you! 
Now | will embrace you, embrace you! 
Come, come! My nest is near, my nest is near. 
Come, come, lonely hunter, now in the stillness of dusk. 
He throws off his clothes and swims across the river, but 
suddenly she flies away in the form of an owl, laughing 
mockingly at him. When he tries to swim back to find 
his clothes, he drowns in the cold river. 
aC 
Man and His Symbols 
Carl G. Jung 
1964; 320 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
Doubleday and Co. 
501 Franklin Ave. 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The sign is always 
less than the con- 
cept it represents, 
while a symbol 
always stands for 
something more 
than its obvious 
and immediate 
meaning. 
Pr 
ar 
ae 
ee ee 
When an individual makes an attempt to see his shadow, 
he becomes aware of (and often ashamed of) those 
qualities and impulses he denies in himself but can plainly 
see in other people... 
If you feel an overwhelming rage coming up in you when 
a friend reproaches you about a fault, you can be fairly 
sure that at this point you will find a part of your 
shadow, of which you are unconscious. 
The archetypal sacred marriage (the union of opposites, 
of the male and female principles) represented here by 
a 19th-century Indian sculpture of the deities Siva 
and Parvati. 
eoereeeeeceoece 
eee eee e eee eee eo eee eee e 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
John the minister noticed that “‘by the way” is a 
phrase that is almost always a lie. People stop by 
the office and talk trivia for an hour, get up to 
leave, stop by the door and say, “By the way, 
Elaine and I are thinking of getting a divorce.” 
OLE 
a 
A tl Wy Ry ; 
se 
q rt 
