Tools for Homesteaders, Gardeners, 
and Small-Scale Farmers 
/f you live in the country and raise food, get your hands 
on this catalog. No rural town or county library should 
be without it. Rodale has taken John Boyd's work for 
Intermediate Technology Publications on appropriate 
agricultural tools for the third world, and added a very 
comprehensive listing for American-made tools, old and 
new. Access to dealers, foreign and domestic, is included. 
Chapters on hand tools, tractors, tillers, cultivating imple- 
ments, planting and harvesting equipment, threshers, and 
more, all illustrated. A healthy respect for the farmer as 
tinkerer and recycler of old machinery is shown throughout 
_ Before you go out and reinvent the wheel, flip through 
these pages; somebody may have beat you to it. 
—Richard Nilsen 
Tools for Home- 
steaders, Gardeners, 
and Small-Scale 
Farmers 
(A Catalog of Hard- 
to-Find Implements 
and Equipment) 
Diana S. Branch, Editor 
1978;528 pp. 
$12.95 postpaid from 
Rodale Books 
33 East Minor 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Throughout the compilation of this book, we have selected 
the tool over the machine 
. 
. 
. Tools humanize; machines 
dehumanize. Tools make unique products — each a little 
different from the other, each speaking eloquently of the 
tool's user. A machine deals in multiplied sameness no 
matter who or what operates it. The best machine 
operators are other machines... 
e 
A large percentage of our inventors came from rural 
communities, and virtually all of the industries which 
grew up in the United States in the 1800s started on a 
very small scale, often as one-man operations. Cyrus 
McCormick, Oliver Evans, Eli Whitney, even Henry Ford 
— each grew up ona 
farm. The inventors of tools we still 
need will most likely come from the ranks of today’s 
small farmers — and their children. 
Eric Brunet and his U-Bar Digger. 
“J 
Cage Culture 
There are many advantages to raising fish in cages. Cage 
confinement means fish can be grown in streams and 
rapidly moving water without any fear of losing them to 
the natural environment. 
Feed waste is greatly reduced 
since the feeding is concentrated in a very small area. 
Because the movement of the fish is restricted, they do 
not need much feed to survive. They just eat and grow! 
Monitoring fish growth and health is greatly simplified, 
and the threat of predators is reduced. For a 100-percent 
harvest, the cages are simply lifted from the water — no 
fishing, draining, or seining (harvesting with a drag net) 
is necessary. 
Double-O Fish Cages, Inqua Corp., P.O. Box 1325, 
Homestead, FL 33036. 
Ge 
Mini Nibex Planter 
The Mini Nibex hand planter is for growers with up to 10 
acres and will sow up to 2 acres ina day. The Nibex cup 
system includes 25 types of cups for different seeds — 
both natural and pelleted. This wide range makes it 
possible to be able to choose the most suitable cup for the 
desired drilling method. The seeding rate can be varied 
from 4 to almost 2,000 seeds per running yard — either 
thin-line or band-drilled in widths of 2, 2.5 or 4 inches 
(50, 65, or 105 millimeters). The cup system is largely 
unaffected by variations in seed size. To reduce the 
amount of seed required when sowing small and expensive 
seeds, a regulator-economizer insert is available for use 
in the seed-housing unit. 
Nibe-Verken AB, S-285 00 Markaryd, Sweden. 
Yorkshire bill hook 
Garden Way cart 
Looking like something you’d use to remove the head of a 
Saxon Churl, this formidable weapon really does the deed 
in brush and heavy undergrowth. 
/ts weight and nasty 
shape make it remarkably effective, obsolescing the 
“Woodman’s Pal.” It’s built stronger than you are. 
I’d 
add a wrist strap to the thing, especially if it was in use 
nearby by someone else. 
—J. Baldwin 
Yorkshire Bill Hook 
$35.50 postpaid from: 
Smith & Hawken Tool Co. 
68 Homer Street 
Palo Alto, CA 94301 
DAVID 
WILLS 
As gardens get bigger so does the demand for a bigger 
wheelbarrow. 
The Garden Way Cart, Model 26, has an 
international reputation, but for anyone who hasnt 
heard of it, the cart is lightweight and balanced so that a 
bulky, heavy load can be carried with ease. 
/t’s the same 
principle as a horse-drawn sulky in a trotting race, which 
enables the horse to run with the least possible drag. Comes 
with a try-it-you'll-like-it-or-your-money-back guarantee. 
—Rosemary Menninger 
Garden Way Cart 
(Model 26) 
Write for price list. 
995 
from: 
$149.50 + shipping 
Garden Way 
(Also available in other 
models and kit form. 
Charlotte, VT 05445 
Si 
pialene 
states 
@ 
(praia 
sete 
6 
a0) 
610, 
0.86 
8 OG 
6 © 
161008, 
0.40, 
6 
8 
LAND USE 
GARDEN TOOLS 
Planet Jr. Seeder and Wheel Hoe 
lam a market gardener in Southern Vermont, going on 
my tenth season. The Planet Jr. Seeder is the best seeder 
| have run across in its price range. 
It has 40 different 
settings for rate of seeding, 7 settings for depth. With 
careful experimentation, you can get it to sow a stand of 
carrots that will need no thinning. You can plant as fast 
as you can walk, though it does require a well-prepared, 
trash-free seedbed. 
It currently costs $205 plus shipping. 
| got mine from Johnny’s Seeds, Box 22, Albion, Maine 
04910 (great seeds, great people to deal with). 
The ultimate in seeders is the Stanhey, made in England. 
It is super accurate and requires the use of sized seeds. 
You have to either be a large grower or a co-op to afford 
it ($1300). But | have a friend who plants 40 acres with 
his Planet Jr. 
Next suggestion: the Planet Jr. Wheel Hoe. You can 
sometimes find these in junk sales and auctions; snap 
them up if you do. They allow you to cultivate both 
sides of a row simultaneously, by off-setting the wheel, 
or to cultivate completely between two rows. 
For the 
small, low tech grower, this is where it’s at for cultivation. 
You run this thing thru your rows when the weeds are 
just germinating (on a hot sunny day), and you have saved 
yourself hours of hoeing, or worse, hand weeding. The 
next step up is a Lilleston, but you have to be doing a 
fairly large acreage for it to be worth it to you. The 
Planet Jr. Wheel Hoe is also available from Johnny’s, for 
about $75 plus shipping. 
—Joseph Klein 
West Brattleboro, Vermont 
Note: Planet Junior tools are distributed by: Planet 
Junior Division, Piper Industries, Box 1188, Freeport 
—SB 
Center, VT 84106. 
SINGLE WHEEL HOES 
“No. 300A SEEDER 
GBS 
No. 4 SEEDER & WHEEL HOE 
e/a) a) dhs, SPS a ‘al eile’ eS 
6-8) ’s) a Wee *e) 0, we) aus ele 9 16a wie 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
Se 
When I was a kid I kept three scrap books, my 
world hunger scrapbook, my Adolph Eichmann’s 
trial scrapbook and my What is Amanda Madison 
up to scrapbook. I was that kind of kid, trying 
for existential despair at ten, Fortunately Amanda 
gave me something to be positively curious about 
— 1 thought if I 
wrote down what she did at differ- 
ent specific times I would begin to figure out what 
she was up to in general and have a better idea 
what to be when I grew up. Here’s an entry from 
when Amanda was a counselor and song leader 
and general oddness maker at church camp for 
junior highs: 
continued on next spread 
131 
