it NI 
DI 
Medical Self-Care Magazine 
Editor Tom Ferguson lives close to us at Whole Earth in 
more ways than one. 
His home is just over the hill. His 
philosophy is identical with ours — empower the indi- 
vidual. And he writes reviews for us (many of them also 
appear in his magazine and book). 
Hell, 80% of what goes on in medicine can be better 
handled by the potential patient — not to mention the 
horrendous matter of cost. 
(inappropriate professional 
expertise costs just as astronomically as the useful stuff.) 
Most of it’s prevention. Most of the rest is awareness and 
doing something about what you notice. | like the 
operational word in Tom’s title — “care.” 
The magazine is a friendly, wide-ranging thing. The issue 
on my desk has information on pollution hazards, auto 
safety, rape, negative ions, cancer, Mexican barefoot 
doctors, and TV set hypnosis. Medical self-care is a 
rapidly growing movement. 
This is its magazine. 
Proof: 
insurance companies are hot for it. 
—SB 
Medical Self-Care 
Magazine 
(Access to Medical Tools) 
Tom Ferguson, Editor 
$15 /year (4 issues) 
from: 
Medical Self-Care 
P.O. Box 717 
Inverness, CA 94937 
More cancers may be caused 
by personal behaviors 
such as smoking and diet 
than by external physical 
and chemical hazards 
Medical and Dental X-Rays: A Consumer's Guide to 
Avoiding Unnecessary Radiation Exposure, Priscilla 
W. Laws, 1974; 74 pp., Health Research Group, 
2000 P Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20036. 
A consumer's guide to evaluating risks of X-rays, 
deciding when and when not to have them, and keeping 
records of radiation exposure. Also lists federal agencies 
and other organizations concerned with protecting 
consumers and workers from unnecessary radiation 
exposure. 
Highly recommended. 
e 
Roughly half of all traffic deaths in the United States 
involve the heavy use of alcohol. 
A Florida State University professor recently found high 
levels of four toxic chemicals in semen samples from 132 
student volunteers. Three of these chemicals are recog- 
nized as carcinogens (substances causing cancer) or 
teratogens (substances causing birth defects), 
In addi- 
tion, the students’ sperm counts averaged only 20 million 
sperms per milliliter, compared to 60 million found in a 
1974 study, and 100 million found in a study conducted 
in 1929. 23 percent of the students had sperm counts 
so low that they were classified as functionally sterile. 
The Florida study supported earlier findings showing 
that the proportion of men with sperm counts of 100 
million per milliliter or more has decreased from 80 
percent in 1929, to 44 percent in 1950, to 22 percent 
in 1977. 
—Michael Castleman 
Medical Self-Care 
It’s an anthology (boo!), but it’s a pretty great anthology 
(yay!). Drawn from many sources as well as his own 
magazine, Ferguson has a couple of articles and many 
book reviews each on this gamut of topics: Self-Care 
Concept, Being Your Own Paramedic, Birthing, Body 
Work, Clinical Sciences, Couples, Drugs, Dying, Eating, 
Elders, Exercise, Health Workers, Sex, Children, Medical, 
Consumerism, Men‘’s Health, Psychological Self-Care, 
Classes, Stress, and Women’s Health. 
That’ll keep you 
busy for a while, and if you still get sick, instead of 
feeling sorry for yourself youll feel stupid. As it 
should be. 
If you find you're really using this medical part of the 
Next Whole Earth Catalog, you should get Ferguson’s 
full treatment in this book. 
—SB 
Medical Self-Care 
(Access to Health Tools) 
Tom Ferguson, Editor 
1980; 288 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
Summit Books 
Simon and Schuster 
Order Department 
1230 Avenue of 
the Americas 
New York, NY 10020 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
I'll have to admit, I’ve been stunned by the way Medical 
Self-Care magazine has been accepted by health workers 
and health workers’ organizations. 
| got into this work 
very disillusioned with conventional medicine, and | 
expected to be considered a real rebel, attacked by the 
AMA, the whole bit. It’s been absolutely the contrary. 
In fact, I’ve just been invited to speak to the AMA's 
Annual Rural Health Conference. 
e 
One researcher who set out to study exercise addiction 
ran into problems which illustrate just what an important 
part of life exercise can become. 
He wanted to look at 
physiological changes in athletes who stop exercising. 
After interviewing a great many people who exercised 
regularly, he was forced to give up his project. He could 
not find enough people who exercised regularly who 
were willing to stop. 
“Notwithstanding the fact that they were being offered 
higher pay than usual,’’ he wrote, “many prospective 
subjects (especially those who exercised daily) asserted 
that they would not stop exercising for any amount 
of money.” 
e 
Healthwise Handbook: A Guide to Responsible 
Health Care, Toni Roberts, Kathleen McIntosh Tinker, 
Donald W. Kemper, 1979; 250 pp., $6.95 postpaid from 
Doubleday & Co., Garden City, New York, NY 11530. 
Everybody seems to agree that self-care classes are a great 
idea, but hardly anyone’s doing them. The bottleneck 
has been the lack of good course materials. Developing a 
curriculum from scratch can take months or even years. 
Well, friends, no more excuses. 
Here it is — a bonafide 
textbook of self-care medicine. With a cooperative nurse, 
doctor, physician's assistant, or a health educator and a 
copy of this book for each student, you could have a 
self-care class in your neighborhood next month. 
The book limits itself to conservative traditional 
medicine — how to do a physical exam, common ailments, 
injuries, emergencies, eating, dental care, developing a 
home medicine- and medical-too!l chest. The elementary 
course: Self-Care 101. Makes you wonder what advanced 
courses will be like — probably more detailed teaching 
about more chronic diseases, more extensive treatment of 
stress, exercise, counseling skills, human sexuality, 
medical consumerism, and healing traditions other than 
traditional Western medicine. 
But that’s all a little further down the road. For getting 
a first class started, this book seems just right. 
—Tom Ferguson 
a 
Talk Back to Your Doctor 
The principles of good medical care, spelled out and 
explained so that you can judge the care you yourself 
receive. 
The process of diagnosis, the standard steps in 
a doctor's visit, lab tests, seeking a second opinion, going 
in for surgery. 
Best book on medical consumerism 
we've seen. 
—Tom Ferguson, M.D. 
Talk Back to 
Your Doctor 
(How to Demand 
[& Recognize] 
High Quality 
Health Care) 
Arthur Levin, M.D. 
1975; 245 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
Doubleday and Company 
Get this book 
back in print! 
e 
Principle: You should choose a hospital which trains 
interns and residents and, if possible, one which is also 
affiliated with a medical school. 
In the Ladies’ Home Journal list of “best” hospitals, all 
were “teaching hospitals” (interns and residents), and 
all except a couple were medical school-affiliated. 
Overwhelmingly, doctors themselves choose such hos- 
pitals for their own or their families’ care. And with good 
reason. 
In the Columbia hospital studies, chances of get- 
ting sub-standard care were more than three times as high 
in hospitals without medical school ties. 
t 
f & —— A 
tip, 
Ss 
I 
LD 
Family Black Bag 
Someone has finally put together a serviceable and 
sensibly-priced black bag of professional-quality doctor’s 
tools. 
This kit contains stethoscope, blood pressure cuff, 
otoscope (for looking into ears), high intensity penlight, 
oral and rectal thermometers, tongue depressor, dental 
mirror, a self-help medical guide by self-care pioneer 
Keith Sehnert, M.D., and a sturdy viny!/ bag to carry 
everything in. Family health record forms and instruc- 
tions for using tools are included. Women may want to 
add a plastic speculum. 
—Tom Ferguson, M.D. 
$82 postpaid from: 
Health Activation 
Network 
P.O. Box 923 
Vienna, VA 22180 
Family Black Bag 
Prevention 
Long before most of us knew that white sugar wasn’t 
the best kind or that the red dye No. 2 might cause 
cancer, Prevention Magazine was writing about, research- 
ing and sharing ways to stay in good health. 
They report 
on new research on vitamins, unusual therapeutic 
methods, the inside story of some of the horrible things 
done to food, as well as reports on physicians, spas, or 
clinics where new methods of healing seem to be working. 
Their bias is to keep you away from M.D.s who do not 
understand nutrition and to make you more aware of 
your own responsibilities for staying alive. 
They also 
watchdog legislation and regulations which may affect 
your health. 
The writing is not technical and the 
advice is usable. 
—Jim Fadiman 
Prevention 
(The Magazine for 
Better Health) 
Robert Rodale, Editor 
$7.97 /year (12 issues) 
from: 
Prevention 
Rodale Press 
33 East Minor 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
e 
Marijuana smokers have abnormal sperm, too — what's 
left of them. Experiments showed that young men who 
smoked marijuana at least four times a week for six 
months had a decrease in sperm numbers in proportion 
to the amount smoked, falling to almost zero in some 
very heavy users (Keep Off the Grass, Pergamon 
Press, 1979). 
e 
After 60 days, all 20 men taking the vitamin C prepara- 
tion (one gram per day) had impregnated their wives, 
while none of the men in the control group had. And not 
only had the vitamin C preparation reversed the sperm- 
agglutination, but it had also raised sperm counts by 54 
percent (Fertility and Sterility, October, 1979). 
e 
“PABA protects against the UVB wavelengths of the 
sun,” Dr. Lorincz told Prevention. UVB is the form of 
ultraviolet radiation which causes sunburn and other 
skin problems to flare. At the same time, PABA permits 
UVA rays, which are the less dangerous, tanning rays, 
to travel through to the skin. 
The superiority of PABA as a sunscreen has been 
documented in various laboratory tests. 
In 1969, Harvard 
scientists found that, of 24 screening agents tested, a 
solution of five percent PABA in alcohol provided the 
best protection against ultraviolet radiation (New 
England Journal of Medicine, June 26, 1969). 
——— ee 
SS 
e 
Principle: You should beware of any doctor who 
treats by injection. 
This is particularly true if the doctor is unwilling to tell 
you what he is injecting, or if he says you need a “’series 
of shots’’ to cure your illness. 
There are very few adult conditions (with the exception 
of an acute asthma attack, heart attack, and other real 
emergencies) which require injections. Diabetics need 
injected insulin, but they can be taught to give it to them- 
selves at home. Patients with “pernicious anemia” do 
need monthly B12 injections, but this is the only disease 
for which B12 is needed — and it is a very rare 
diagnosis indeed. 
Mercurial diuretics are injected drugs which are used in 
patients with heart failure and fluid retention. These 
drugs, too, can be self-injected, like insulin, after instruc- 
tion. They should not be used as “diet” drugs, however. 
With these and a few other exceptions (cancer chemo- 
therapy, for example, and desensitization shots for 
varoius allergies) the use of injected drugs by a doctor 
in the long-term treatment of adults is cause for suspicion. 
