WHOLE SYSTEMS 
20 EARTH IMAGING 
E ALL JUST MAY BE NAVIGATORS amid the 
maps we make within our minds. When the maps 
“work” and the images of our world coincide with 
the pictures within our minds, it’s clear sailing. 
When the maps don’t work, we travel sorrowfully, 
blaming ourselves as inadequate navigators or 
blaming the map for providing such inadequate 
clues. Madness sometimes occurs: when we believe these mental maps are 
the world and forget how each of us must be a Columbus exploring unknown 
images, an Alan Shepard entering uncharted space. 
Here is a guide to the images of the 1980s — images of our planet, our conti- 
nent, our nation and the human settlement of the land and water surfaces. 
The 1980s will bring a new era of cartography — new geographical images 
of our environment. 
To old mapping techniques have been added photomaps 
from high-flying aircraft, satellites in false color infra-red, thermal infra-red, 
side-looking radar, and multiband overflight. We can now buy maps of the 
Moon, Mars and the galaxies, as well as maps of the ephemeral streams usually 
hidden by forests or hot discharges from nuclear power plants normally 
invisible to the human eye. We now have time-/apse maps like the speeded 
photomaps of weather fronts that appear each night on TV or computer 
maps like those of Star Wars. 
In New York the Maritime Union has a “movie 
map” of the entrance to the harbor which can be readjusted to show different 
storm conditions, maritime traffic, visibility and vessel speed for training tug 
boat operators. 
In short, here is access to the place you live — images called 
maps, simplified for special purposes, the prime tool to understanding the 
“where” of what we are. 
—Peter Warshall 
Skylab Explores the Earth 
Photos of the Earth from space have always been grand, 
fascinating, lovely. This book makes them understandable. 
From innumerable color plates (the most informative yet 
from NASA), you learn to read the graphic news of 
geology, oceanography, meteorology, agricu/ture, develop- 
ment, pollution. This is the large-scale texture of the Earth. 
Cabo Hammond ~~ 
= 
Cabo Douglas __ 
Fernandina caldera 
(0°22'S 
91°33' W) 
Cape Berkeley Volcano 
Vi 
Cape Berkeley . 
Punta Vincente Roca ~~~ 
ISABELA ISLAND 
Volcan his 
Bahia Urvina 
We are mites. 
Skylab Explores 
the Earth 
NASA Lyndon B. 
Johnson Space Center 
1977; 517 pp. 
(No. 033-000-00674-8) 
Mission to Earth: Landsat Views the World 
While Skylab was an experiment, Landsat is the hard 
worker. 
Its satellite imagery is used for snow mapping 
mountain ranges, checking out surface water bodies, 
charting floods and large-scale watershed management. 
Landsat orbits further from Earth (570 miles) than 
Skylab. Photos cover 115 mile Earth pieces with clarity 
for objects 260 feet or larger. 
The Skylab book resolves surface details as small as 33 
feet wide, from 270 miles in space. 
The Skylab photos 
are in natural color, Landsat in computer-enhanced 
special filter color. 
The Landsat Atlas is pure coffee-table 
sumptuous detail of the textures of Mother Earth’s 
remarkable skin. And the price is right. 
—Peter Warshall 
Mission to Earth: 
Landsat Views the World 
Nicholas M. Short, Paul 
P. Lowman, Jr., Stanley 
C. Freden and William 
A. Finch, Jr. 
1976; 459 pp. 
(No. 033-000-00659-4) 
$14 postpaid from: 
Superintendent of 
Documents 
U.S. Government 
Printing Office 
Washington, D.C. 20402 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
ARNHEM LAND, AUSTRALIA: One of the northern- 
most sections of continental Australia is the great aborig- 
inal native preserve called Arnhem Land; it is part of the 
Northern Territory and stretches below the coastline of 
the Arafura Sea some 160 to 480 kilometers (100 to 300 
—SB 
$15 postpaid from: 
Superintendent of 
Documents 
tT 
U.S. Govt. Printing Office 
Washington, D.C. 20402 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Eruption cloud from 
Fernandina Volcano in 
the Galapagos Islands. 
spelelolel 
miles) east of Darwin. The segment shown here is the 
Cobourg Peninsula (G—8) extending around Van Diemen 
Gulf (F-15). The peninsula consists mostly of Cretaceous 
rocks (C—8; H—9) with Pleistocene sediments further 
inland (O—11) and along the coasts (M—14; Q—10). 
The Wellington (R—14) and Spencer small hills (U—20) 
are outliers of Precambrian metamorphic rocks. 
This scene, obtained during the dry season, shows most of 
the region to be covered by tall savanna grasses. Scattered 
rain forests (banyans, pandanus, and eucalypts) occur 
mainly along watercourses. Mangrove swamps develop 
around river estuaries (K—20). The nomadic aborigine 
tribes hunt plentiful game in this tropical zone. Kangaroo, 
bandicoots, wildcats, wild birds, waterfowl, and a wide 
variety of reptiles are typical inhabitants. The names of 
the two principal rivers, the East (O—19) and South (K—21) 
Alligator Rivers (actually populated by crocodiles), add 
to the junglelike flavor of the country. Domesticated 
animals are at a premium in Arnhem Land owing to the 
constant infestation by disease-bearing mosquitoes and flies. 
Cloud patterns (G—13) mix with sediment patterns 
(C—13) in this scene. Coral islands (J—18) and reefs (B—5) 
are actively growing off the coast. 1069—00442; Septem- 
ber 30, 1972. 
> Sierra Negra 
Weather for the Mariner 
I’ve been watching weather books since | was an obsessive 
teen. 
This one surpasses all the others as far as I’m con- 
cerned. 
It’s sufficiently and fascinatingly technical 
without interrupting the comprehensive clarity that 
makes it so unique. 
It is a working text for people who 
live or die by the weather. No reason to limit its use 
to mariners. 
—SB 
Weather for the Mariner 
William J. Kotsch, 
Rear Admiral (Ret.) 
1977; 272 pp. 
2nd Edition 
fort 
; 
eathel 
weath marine’ 
$1 6.95 postpaid from: 
Naval Institute Press 
Annapolis, MD 21402 
Weather will generally 
change for the worse 
when: 
Cirrus clouds change to 
cirrostratus and lower 
and thicken. 
Rapidly moving clouds 
increase in number and lower in height. 
Clouds move in different directions at different heights. 
Clouds are moving from between NNE through east to 
south, and the wind speed increases with time. 
Altocumulus or altostratus clouds darken the western 
horizon and the barometer begins to fall rapidly. 
The wind shifts to the south or east. The greatest change 
occurs when the wind shifts from north through east 
to south. 
The wind blows strongly in the early morning. 
The temperature rises abnormally in the winter. 
The temperature is far above or below “normal” 
that time of year. 
The barometer falls steadily. 
There is a downpour at night. 
A cold front, warm front, or occluded front approaches. 
for 
Wind at 60 knots. Entire sea takes on a whitish-green cast. ae 
Se 
| 
