2 
90 
MOUNTAINS & MEADOWS 
LAND USE 
REAL ESTATE 
Finding and Buying Your 
Place in the Country 
I’m glad somebody wrote this book, and did it so thor- 
oughly. Scher is a lawyer who manages to wade with you 
through the waters of easements, zoning, taxes, contracts, 
deeds of trust, mortgages, and escrow without muddying 
them up. Also advice on evaluating property — soil, 
water, structures, and on bargaining strategies. 
If you 
study this book, there is no excuse for being “‘taken.” 
—Richard Nilsen 
Finding and Buying 
Your Place In 
The Country 
Les Scher 
1974; 393 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
Macmillan Books 
Order Department 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Work Out Everything Before the Deal !s Closed 
Never buy land on the agent's promise or assurance that a 
problem can be worked out after the deal is closed. 
For 
example, if you are supposed to share a well with adjoin- 
ing landowners but no agreement has been drawn up as to 
what the arrangement will be, the agent might tell you 
that your neighbors are great people and that you will 
have no problem working out an arrangement after you 
buy the land. This is a common and dangerous sales 
hustling technique. Once you pay your money and take 
title, the agent is out of the picture. 
If your neighbors 
don’t turn out to be so nice, you can be in real trouble. 
Don’t assume the agent is going to help you with prob- 
lems once he gets his commission. 
If he can’t arrange all 
the details in writing before you buy the land, he 
certainly won't do so afterwards. 
e 
These Lines Are Always Good for a Laugh 
“I'll let you in on a secret about the seller.”’ 
“\'m going to show you something nobody else has seen.” 
“The land is really worth more than the seller is asking.”” 
“So far, nobody else has seen this property.” 
"If | had the money, I'd buy this piece myself.” 
“Look, a lot of people are interested in this property, so 
you better make up your mind quickly.” 
ws or 
NEw OF 
NE \% OF 
NE v4 OF 
NE Me 
10 ACRES 
40 ACRES | 40 ACRES 
48. DIVIDING A SECTION INTO QUARTERS AND 
SMALLER PARCELS 
1 
ww oF | EW OF 
Sew 
| 
SEM 
to Acres 
| 
80 
ACRES 
1 
1 
gE 
United Farm and Strout 
These catalogs will feed your land mania. 
—SB 
United Farm 
Catalog 
free from: 
United Farm Agency 
612 West 47th Street 
Kansas City, MO 64112 
and the other local offices 
Strout 
Catalog 
free from: 
Strout Realty 
Dept. WE 
Plaza Towers 
Springfield, MO 65804 
yale? 
No. 1710—120 acres, $72,000. Beauti- 
ful mountain land in midst of good hunt- 
ing area. Lots of deer, some elk, plenty 
of game birds. 
120 acres, some pas- 
ture, lots of trees, springs and small 
creek. 
Plenty of perfect cabin sites. 
Electricity runs through, access to 
county road. Only $72,000, low down 
payment, owner financing. 
UNITED, 
Wheatland, Wyo. 
Finding and Buying Land 
The trick is, helping the seller find you. The best 
way to do this is advertise. Find out what the 
land owners read, and advertise there. 
It may be 
the bulletin board at the general store or the six” 
ranchers’ journals of the northwestern states (find 
at libraries in the area). 
Say in your ad what kind of land you're looking 
for and what you're willing to pay, e.g., 
“WANTED TO BUY, mountain land, south slope, 
timber, year-round flowing water, prefer no im- 
provements and minimum roads; 200 - 600 acres, 
in northern Oregon or Washington state; will pay 
$200/acre if suitable, good cash terms. Mortimer 
Head, 1111 A St., Portland, OR, 16161, (007) 
242-4242.” 
This procedure largely by-passes the real estate 
agents, and good riddance. Most are a foul breed, 
though one in twenty is all right and can help you. 
To find out what land you want takes some 
research. Shop around locally and get a fee! for 
Surveying 
Surveying is the human way of pissing on all the corners 
of your property, so you know what’s yours and what is 
theirs. 
It is also a way of leveling, finding corners, map- 
ping, working out your water system. 
/f you are going to 
use land, chances are you ‘II run into a survey. 
This book 
seems to cover the discipline and use of the surveyor’s tools. 
—J.D. Smith 
Surveying 
Charles B. Breed 
1971; 445 pp. 
Third Edition 
$20.95 postpaid from: 
John Wiley and Sons 
One Wiley Drive 
Somerset, NJ 08873 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
the terminology and considerations of land buy- 
ing (clear title, developed springs, pasture for 200 
head, adjoining National Forest, county road, 
mineral rights, water rights, NE % of section 28 R 
17 T26, taxes last year, six-months option, etc.) 
Visit friends who have land and see what they 
like and don’t like about it. Tell everybody you 
talk to that you're looking for land and let them 
rattle on. 
Finding an area to suit you is partly a matter of 
maps and partly visits to see how the climate and 
vibrations are. 
Write for United Farm and Strout 
catalogs for rough (high) land values in various areas. 
The most important source of information on a 
piece of land besides visiting it is the USGS (US 
Geological Survey) topographical map of the area. 
Order the index map for the state(s) youre inter- 
ested in, have someone show you how to use 
Range and Township to locate yourself, and buy 
the appropriate maps. At $1.25 - $2.00 apiece 
they are an outstanding bargain. See pp. 24 - 25 
for USGS maps and aerial photos. 
Rare Earth Report 
Where Sealand specializes in cheap international proper- 
ties, Rare Earth tends to go the other direction — castles, 
spas, towns, missile silos, whole islands, estates — exotic 
stuff, the stuff of dreams. Expensive dreams. 
—SB 
Rare Earth Report 
$36/year (6 issues) 
$48 /year outside 
North America 
from: 
Rare Earth Real 
Estate, Inc. 
Box 946 
Sausalito, CA 94966 
Wilderness trading post. 
Your Own Town! 
Sealand 
| would like to recommend The Cheap Land Catalogue 
and Bulletins from Sealand 
.. 
. it’s how we found our 
haven/heaven here on Prince Edward Island, Canada, 
recently (10 acres of island with our own sandy beach for 
less than $5,000), and we could hardly be more satisfied. 
Sealand don't sell land themselves but gather specific 
listings and news on seemingly all the cheaper than 
average land and housing still to be had in several differ- 
ent countries. Canadian and USA land listed is almost 
all under $250 per acre, Australian under $100 acre, 
South American under $50, etc. 
They seem to cover most countries from time to time, but 
most listings are for Canada/USA. Owner financed (pay 
monthly) property is favored. 
In spite of the heavy 
American coverage, the catalogue and bulletins originate 
in England. Below average land there is expensive ($2,500 
and up) but a few incredibly cheap town houses and 
country cottages are often listed, mostly under $8 000! 
The catalogue is quarterly (and goes up and down in size 
a lot) the bulletins are issued in between. One current 
sample of catalog and bulletin are sent for $14.00, the 
full annual subscription is $50.00. Address is: Sealand, 
Ashenbottom Farm, Ewood Bridge, Rossendale, 
Lancashire, BB4 6JY, England. 
—Evelyn Hayhurst 
Prince Edward Island, Canada 
Marshall and Swift: Residential Cost Handbook, and the Marshall Valuation Service 
| 
The appraisal publications of the Marshall and Swift Pub- 
lication Company fall into the category of beautiful 
professional tools. In this instance, known to the appraisal 
profession and related fields but a mystery to everyone 
else. On the occasions | have asked appraisers if they 
were familiar with the Marshall and Swift Residential 
Cost Handbook, the rep/y has always been, “Yes, it’s 
the standard of the industry,” or, “Certainly, it’s the 
4“ 
‘Appraisers’ Bible’. 
Although | am not a professional appraiser, | have used 
these publications for many years. 
| find them of value in 
making real estate decisions of any kind in a rational 
manner instead of relying solely on the intuitive, seat-of- 
the-pants method or what the real estate agent, who is 
working for the seller, says is a great buy. | have an enter- 
prising friend who met his college expenses doing appraisals 
for real estate agents and small savings and loan associa- 
tions using only the Residential Cost Handbook, a pad of 
appraisal forms and a calculator. 
The principal Marshall and Swift publications — the 
Residential Cost Handbook and Marshall Valuation 
Service — come in a format that gives appraisal instruc- 
tions and all of the necessary information to appraise 
a building. Descriptions of buildings with extensive pho- 
tographic examples of type, quality and age are included. 
When a value for a building is arrived at, using the guides 
provided, you say O.K., so what is this building worth 
in Casper, Wyoming? or Montreal, Quebec? You turn to 
the section marked Local Multipliers and multiply your 
figure by the Current Cost Multiplier and then by the 
Local Multiplier (for Casper, Montreal oran ywhere else) 
and you have the value of the building in question. 
The price for the publications, like all quality tools, may 
seem high, but the price of the Residential Cost Hand- 
book, at $33 for new subscribers and $29 for renewals, 
is about half the price of one appraisal. Fora person 
doing something as basic as buying, remodeling and 
selling an occasional house this is a reasonable price to 
pay for the value received. 
The Residential Cost Handbook provides a fast, accurate 
method to determine residential building cost. 
It fulfills, 
with equal effectiveness, the requirements of both the 
experienced appraiser and the occasional building cost 
estimator. Loose leaf quarterly supplements are provided 
to maintain up-to-date localized accuracy and reliability. 
The Marshall Valuation Service provides accurate and 
authoritative methods for determining replacement costs, 
depreciated values and insurable values of all types of 
commercial, industrial, institutional and agricultural 
buildings, from simple sheds to large metropolitan build- 
ings. Monthly supplements with updated cost and local 
multipliers, for over 550 locations in the United States 
and Canada, assure accurate results. 
Two other titles published by Marshall and Swift worth 
noting are the Business Valuation Handbook and The 
Appraisal of Farm Real Estate. 
—Joseph W. McShane 
Marshall Valuation 
Service 
$75 /year (one book 
and 12 updates) 
both from: 
Marshall and Swift 
Publication Company 
1617 Beverly Boulevard 
P.O. Box 26307 
Los Angeles, CA 90026 
The Residential 
Cost Handbook 
(Rapid Method 
of Computing 
Residence Costs) 
$33 /year (one book 
and four updates) 
