en 
HE INEVITABLE first question is always, 
“How much stuff from The Last Whole 
Earth Catalog is repeated in this Next 
Whole Earth Catalog?” 
The answer is 
11%. Of the approximately 2700 
items in the Next Catalog, 300 are carryovers from 
the Last Catalog (7977). * That surprised us. We 
had expected there would be 30% repetition. 
The 
other surprise was how much is reviewed for the 
first time in the Next Catalog — not 10%, as we 
had predicted, but 36%, about 975 brand new 
items. From the Whole Earth Epilog (7974), 17% 
(450 items) are repeats. 
The remaining 36% 
(another 975) of items are updated from various 
issues of CoEvolution Quarterly since 1974. We 
do not regard “new” as necessarily “good,” but 
it turned out to be better than we thought. 
The inevitable second question is, “What's 
different?” (Why does anyone care? | guess 
because 1,600,000 copies of the Last Whole 
Earth Catalog so/d, and “Whole Earth” became a 
generic name for a frame of mind and somewhat 
for a generation and historic time. Historic time 
now past. 
The hidden question is, “ls Whole Earth 
now a quaint anachronism, or is it once again a 
detailed sign of the times?”) 
Leaving the interpretation to you, here are some 
things that are different. 
In 1971 we listed (and 
could only list) 2 items on solar energy — the 
Solar Energy Society and Farrington Daniels’ 1964 
classic Direct Use of the Sun’s Energy. 
/n 7980 
we’re reviewing 63 solar items (pp. 182 - 195) — 
the cream of the cream of hundreds of solar 
goodies we‘ve seen. [Good old Farrington Daniels 
(on p. 187) is still among the 63.] 
The Last Catalog had 2 pages about computers. 
The Next Catalog has 12 pages (pp. 528 - 539) — 
calculators, home computers, computer networks, 
computer games, robotics, and computer future- 
ness, all operable directly from the household. 
Computers and solar are only two of the domains 
that have taken off recently, with us flapping hard 
to fly in front of them. Others prominent in the 
Next Catalog include: space colonies (pp. 16 - 18), 
trees-as-solution-to-every 
thing (pp. 77 - 89), wood 
heat (pp. 203 - 210) (there were half a dozen 
woodstove manufacturers in 1971; now there are 
over 400), underground architecture (pp. 240 - 
241), old building preservation (pp. 235 - 236), 
urban homesteading (pp. 294 - 295), medical self- 
care and fitness (pp. 318 - 319, 321 - 324), care of 
the dying (pp. 330 - 332), hand gliding and wind- 
surfing (pp. 455 and 457), video (pp. 492 - 493), 
and the junior obsessive Role Playing Games such 
as “Dungeons & Dragons” (pp. 549 - 550). 
There are even a couple of subjects where we got 
honest-to-God scoops — hot news not even we 
have printed before. One is our coverage of 
coppicing, a practice which is traditional all over 
Europe and completely unheard-of in America. 
/t may be the most efficient producer of biomass 
alive. By taking advantage of certain species of 
trees that constantly re-sprout from the stump, 
says our author, a family of four can generate all 
the firewood it needs forever from a space 64 feet 
by 64 feet (p. 84). Then there’s “amateur insemi- 
nation,” the rapidly growing practice among 
*/ hasten to footnote that the repeated items are 
thoroughly reworked to reflect recent editions or issues 
and any change in our evaluation of their standing amid 
the competition. As a resu/t almost no review or set of 
excerpts is identical to what was in the Last Catalog. 
lesbians to make themselves pregnant without 
benefit of intercourse or M.D.s. As usual, we give 
the technical details of how to do it (p. 345). 
Some subjects have diminished. Domes have 
practically disappeared. 
Though ingenious and 
efficient with materials, they proved quite difficult 
for amateur builders, and their notorious leaking 
taught a generation about redundancy. Any 
pin- 
hole in the single skin of domes /ets in rain, whereas 
the quadruple redundancy of shingles doesn’t. As 
Steve Baer of Zomeworks (pp. 190 - 191) remarked 
about his much-photographed dome home in 
Albuquerque, New Mexico, “It came down to a 
question of blowing up our house or our marriage, 
or shingling.“’ They shingled. 
Free schools are mostly gone, replaced by more 
interest in home teaching and by conservatism 
generally. Neil Postman’s Teaching As a Subversive 
Activity in the Last Catalog has been replaced by 
the same author’s 1979 book Teaching Asa 
Conserving Activity (p. 567). China, which had 
a whole 8-page section in the Whole Earth Epilog, 
/s absent this time around, except as a goal for 
travel. After discussion with our Young China 
Hand Orville Schell (Working in China), we con- 
cluded that roles have reversed since Deng Xaoping 
supplanted Mao. Six years ago China was the 
model for radical America; now America is the 
model for technical and economic China. Another 
cultural survey that wasn’t updated was our Epilog 
4-page coverage of “Black Interest.” For decades 
the tireless leader of the nation in civil rights and’ 
the arts, black cu/ture seems to be getting a 
deserved rest these days. 
The most conspicuous change to us in this Catalog 
is its very fabric. 
/t is better designed and tighter 
in every respect, obviously in the layout of the 
pages, less obviously in the thoroughness of the 
research. Since I’m the same editor as before, 
all of that is clearly due to the skill and diligence 
of the people I’m privileged to work with (cliché 
but true). And though it’s been more arduous, to 
put it mildly — five months for many of us with- 
out a day off — this has also been far the happiest 
of our productions. Another element, | realize, 
is the sheer accumulation of experience. The Last 
Whole Earth Catalog summarized three years. 
The 
Whole Earth Epilog was made in only nine months. 
This Next Catalog /s the cu/mination of all twelve 
years of our evaluating and publishing. 
Some of that span is visible even in conversation 
around the office. 
The Next Catalog project got 
going to a large degree because young (26) jour- 
nalism graduate Art Kleiner wanted to work with 
CoEvolution and the only job | could think of was 
compiler of a new Catalog. One day early in 
production he approached typesetter Evelyn 
Eldridge-Diaz with some urgent advice on typing 
access. As Evelyn gazed at him patiently, Produc- 
tion Editor Anne Herbert observed drily, “Art, 
Evelyn was typesetting the Whole Earth Catalog 
when you were in tenth grade.” Another typical 
exchange: Evelyn —“.. . She also advocates 
painting designs on your face with your menstrual 
blood and dancing around on moonlight nights 
with your friends. 
Hi, Art.” Art — “I think | 
like it better on nights without a moon.” 
The Last Whole Earth Catalog was aimed at one 
audience, the menstrual blcod painters of the late 
“60s and early ‘70s, though a lot of other people 
tuned in. This Next Catalog hopes it might be 
useful to three audiences. 
1) Our contemporaries, 
who have aged into positions of responsibility 
Whole Earth 
Catalog 
access to tools 
1971 
(one of us governs California) with most of our 
generation’s premises surprisingly intact and most 
of us still interested in acquiring more skills. 
2) The newcollege age population, with its unusual 
ability (its artists, for example, routinely outclass 
the show-offs of the “60s) and its apparent lack of 
confidence to entrepreneur its own road. 3) The 
vast citizenry that has had it with inflation, people 
who are rapidly finding that when you fix or build 
your own house (car, education, body, com- 
munity), you deal in uninflated coin, your time, 
and don’t get taxed for the transaction. 
Some among us foresee deep economic hardship 
soon. 
(I don’t; Random House Editor-in-Chief 
Jason Epstein does; our tool and financial reviewer 
Paul Hawken says credit collapse in 1983 but we'll 
get over it.) I’m editing the Next Catalog because 
/ think people have the affluence and time to use 
the book to refine their lives. Jason is distributing 
it because he thinks people will need it to save 
their lives. What’s your excuse? 
Put another way, “What’s going on?” | like this 
note | got recently from our local Zen abbot, 
Richard Baker-roshi. 
“Japan is a ‘thought’ that 
provides for one hundred million people. 
The 
Victorian Age is a thought — reflected and rein- 
forced in the first abundance of industrial goods. 
What is the thought of our age? Could an un- 
thinkable age be a virtue?” 
One thing that seems clear about our age is that 
the do-it-yourse/f approach to everything is still 
steadily increasing. Hardware stores and how-to 
book publishing are booming. 
In view of that 
growing market, there are some disturbing dys- 
functions on the supply side. Excellent carpentry 
and gardening tools exist, for example, but it is 
nearly impossible for the amateur to get them. 
The reason apparently is this. 
There are so many 
sales steps between the manufacturer and the 
consumer that there is no evaluative feedback. 
Local keep-the-stock-turning hardware chains 
carry only cheap tools. 
If you ask for, say, an 
outstanding (though more expensive) Blue Grass 
hammer, the clerk has never heard of it and 
doesn’t want to, and the question has no way to 
get through the clerk, manager, jobber, etc. to 
worry the manufacturer. 
Only professional car- 
penters can get Blue Grass hammers, usually only 
through wholesale dealers (p. 135). Though some 
beginnings are under way, mail order suppliers 
have yet to meet this market opportunity. 
Something similar has gone wrong in book pub- 
lishing. Every day of working on this Catalog we 
were maddened to /earn that several invaluable 
books had been /et go out of print. Many we 
dropped; many we ran anyway with the plea 
“Get this book back in print!” (Hm. A small 
publisher might do worse than republish just 
