. 
| 
: 
: 
{ 
{ 
| 
| 
| 
: 
: 
| 
COMMUNICATIONS ~ 
COMPUTER NETWORKING ~ 
LIFEON THE 
COMPUTER 
NET WORK 
FRONTIER 
Likely to change our lives more than any 
technology since the automobile 
by Art Kleiner 
“When I log in I ‘go’ into the network. I’m not here in 
my room any more. Ask my family. I’m in another place. 
In formal geographic terms, I’m inside a single point. Yet 
inside that point is all the space I need to meet with 
other people — plus my files, my records, and my entire 
office. And the behavior in there is what you might 
expect from people who have been wrenched into a 
fourth dimension.” 
—Einar Stefferud, consultant for the U.S. Army, 
the Federal Communications Commission 
and other groups in Washington, D.C, 
who does much of his work via a 
computer terminal in his Huntington Beach, 
California, home. 
OMPUTER NETWORKS are new telecommu- 
nications media for transmitting words and 
pictures. They're used to send messages, pass 
on news and gossip, search vast indexed data files, manage 
multinational businesses, bring together faraway compa- 
triots, and take part in interactive fantasy games. They’re 
being promoted hard by an army of international 
dreamers and at least 20 major corporations. They seem 
likely to change our lives more than any technology since 
the automobile. 
“If your prime minister were here,” writer 
James Martin 
(p. 495) told an Australian television audience, ‘I'd say, 
Mr. Fraser, you’re building freeways all over the place. 
An absolutely superlative communications system would 
cost as much as 100 miles of freeway in all. People 
could move out of cities and back to villages, because 
they would get their work, their quality education, and 
their culture through the terminals. The cities would 
remain, but only the people who really wanted to be 
there would have to stay.” 
The technology which makes this possible is a hybrid of 
computers, inexpensive digital transmission links, and 
telephones. The preferred vehicle is the computer term- 
inal — a typewriter keyboard with a video display screen 
attached and some provision for plugging in a telephone. 
Sometimes computer terminals print on paper instead 
of displaying characters on a screen. Networks vary in 
how they look and what you can do with them, but the 
procedure for logging into all of them is roughly the 
same. You dial a telephone number, plug the telephone 
receiver into your terminal, wait for your terminal to 
recognize the high-pitched tones coming out of the 
phone, and then type in the correct codes: 
1. A code for the address of the particular network you 
wish to enter (if you’re entering a network across the 
country, you use high-speed data transmission lines, 
whose rates are much cheaper than dialing direct — 
$3 to $10 for each hour connected. If you’re dialing 
a local network, you don’t need an address code). 
2. Your name or identification number, by which the 
network will recognize you from any terminal-and- 
telephone in the world. 
3. Your secret password, so no one else can enter 
under your I.D. 
Then the network welcomes you, asks if you wish to see 
the messages waiting for you, and delivers any other 
relevant news. From there, you type in the commands 
which tell the network what you want to do: senda 
message, play a game, scan an electronic news wire for 
stories about a particular subject, leave an item ona 
computerized bulletin board or conference, edit a 
paper, find out who else is on-line at that moment, zip 
off a few quick one-line comments to them, do all of the 
above at once, or simply sign off. 
Computer networks are best used for keeping in touch 
with people. Far away colleagues coordinate long-range 
projects, people with similar interests substitute com- 
puter networks for newsletters or telephone trees (and 
end up keeping in touch more personally as a result), 
and soul-searching friendships develop between those who 
have never met in person. Some members log on to get a 
sympathetic response in an emotional crisis. Others make 
4 
long distance trips to meet in person those they’ve 
only seen on the network. There have been typed 
flirtations which developed into full-fledged romances 
and idle dreams which suddenly became high-commit- 
ment businesses. 
There are, of course, other potentials which network 
designers have only begun to explore. There’s shopping 
via the terminal, voting through it, personalized news on 
tap, new town-meeting-type promise for public participa- 
tion in local politics —and also real possibilities for 
invasion of privacy and monitoring-from-on-high. The 
companies with big financial stakes in networks are 
among the biggest in the world — Exxon, Xerox, Ameri- 
can Telephone and Telegraph, International Business 
Machines, General Telephone and Electronics, Warner 
Communications, American Express. And there’s an‘ 
equally determined grassroots movement, with many 
small bulletin board networks already established on 
personal computers, whose members believe this will 
give individuals more power over their lives than any 
other technology. A movement is growing for com- 
munity information centers, which would link neighbor- 
hoods for better barter and politics. 
Ultimately, it’s likely that many of the details of civil- 
ization — directory assistance, letters and mail order, 
travel information — will be handled by networks, and 
people will belong to five or six networks each — local 
and nationwide — depending on their needs. The 
possibility that people who can’t or won’t participate in 
networks may be shut out of work or other opportuni- 
ties is a very real one. Hopefully, libraries and public 
access centers will acquire terminals so people who want 
to can use networks even if they can’t afford a terminal. 
There are probably about 50,000 computer network 
members now. They range in age from 14 to 90. Many 
are professional computer programmers, but a fair 
number never saw a terminal until they joined the net- 
work. Many join to keep in touch with far-flung 
colleagues in scientific or professional fields. Nearly every- 
one finds it making great changes in their personal lives. 
Joining a network can be like moving into a new com- 
munity. Addiction iscommon. Turning off the terminal 
can be like waking up from a dream. Network members 
wonder about their compulsion, as in this late night 
message from programmer Jim Clark: 
“TI feel a sense of purpose and connectedness when on the 
system and even if I haven’t been on in a while (2 days) I 
miss using it. I have encountered an entire new world 
of good people. I find it more important than the tele- 
phone (which I never use), the TV (even less use), the 
radio (lots of use) and even (self-horror) the on-campus 
computers (constant use). Is the network addictive? 
Perhaps regulatory measures are necessary to keep people 
from becoming addicts and ruining (enhancing?) their 
lives. Or perhaps there are pre-addiction symptoms 
that the computer can look for. I don’t know. I only 
know that I have been awake on-line for twenty-five 
hours now and my last experiment died horribly. It is 
going to be a long night.” 
People can use networks without becoming addicted, but 
there isn’t a network without some addicts. Elaine Kerr, 
who coaches new members of the EIES network, com- 
piled this list of symptoms: “Signing on at least several 
times a day (maybe something is waiting). Physically 
evident impatience when system is inaccessible. Inability 
to write off-line. Inability to think off-line. Lack of 
desire to conduct relationships off-line. Inability to 
sleep without signing on just one last time. Dreaming 
about the network.” 
Users get impatient with ordinary typewriters which 
don’t backspace to correct errors or pick up the mail 
and with ordinary mail, which takes four days to ship a 
letter cross continent, and especially with the telephone, 
which often requires five tries before the person at the 
other end is reached. Since communication is easier, 
network members keep in touch with four or five times as 
many people as they would otherwise. Since the com- 
puter stores transcripts of what passes through it, net- 
work users don’t keep many paper files. Since people 
aren’t there physically, things like shyness, physical 
ce Whole Earth research editor Art Kleiner blitzing his 
JOE 
DIETER/ASIS 
Ts The Network Nation 
friends on the EIES Network for the latest word on home 
computer preferences. The terminal is a Computer 
Devices Miniterm (telephone receiver plugs into the 
back). For the network’s advice, see p. 529. 
disabilities, race, religion, sex, and body language 
are invisible. 
“I worked with someone here on line for some time and 
then had occasion to talk with him on the phone,” one 
user said. “The accent suggested he was black. I’d 
never had reason to think of it before that, and still 
could be wrong, but the possibility is now in my con- 
sciousness where it had not been before.” 
Networks open up possibilities for new kinds of games. 
At the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center there’s a form of 
computerized Star Trek which never starts or ends. 
People join in from their desk terminals, searching around 
the videoscreen-simulated universe for someone else who’s 
already playing and drawing them into cospaceship battle. 
On the Electronic Information Exchange System (EIES), 
there’s a collaborative soap opera — a short story in prog- 
ress, written under pen names, each member writing a 
segment in turn. 
There’s a different quality to news and information when 
it’s pulled out of the system with commands that seek out 
specific interests. “Listening to the radio,” Hudson 
Institute staff member Douglas Cayne wrote last Novem- 
ber, “I heard a one-line news bulletin saying that South 
Korean President Park Chung-Hee had been assassinated 
and his government overthrown. The evening paper had 
already been delivered, I don’t have a TV, so I turned to 
the UPI news wire on the Source network . 
. . I was able 
to monitor reports from Korea all last night and today, 
and feel much more secure about what actually happened. 
There’s nothing like being able to see that the story you 
are reading was written only minutes earlier . . .”” 
People’s reactions to networks depend most on the way 
they’re designed. Airline reservation and bank teller 
systems use the same technology as more sophisticated 
networks, but the clerks and bank tellers get frustrated 
because they can’t send messages or do anything but 
type in the same numbers by rote. A lot depends on how 
quickly the system responds. The best networks reply as 
fast as a person would in conversation. A slow system is 
as frustrating as driving a string of red lights. And a too- 
fast system takes getting used to: 
“One company set up some clerks on a data base,”’ said 
psychologist Marilyn Albin, who advises business managers 
about designing networks for people. “After a while they 
refused to use it. They claimed it was reading their mind. 
The response was instantaneous with the last keystroke — 
before people realized they'd finished asking a question, 
the machine already had the answer.” 
Large corporations are starting to find their empires 
unmanageable without networks. “I can get on the system 
and maintain contact with people in Paris, London, and 
Singapore,” said Sal Suniga, Vice President of PLANET, 
a commercial network based in Palo Alto, California. 
“When we set up our system in France, we drafted a 
contract there, transmitted it here to have it looked at by 
our lawyer, and transmitted it back there to be signed 
two days later.” 
The technology does have its paranoia-inspiring qualities. 
The utility-sponsored Electrical Power Research Institute 
uses a computer network to organize its nuclear power 
media campaigns — so that next time there’s a Three 
Mile Island, they’ll have their news story coordinated. 
The President’s Office of Preparedness uses a computer 
network to coordinate crisis-handing; the technology 
makes it easier to build up files of searchable gossip on 
strike leaders and dissidents. And the National Security 
Agency (NSA), which handles electronic surveillance for 
the FBI and CIA, reportedly uses a series of high-powered 
computers to scan data transmission lines, sifting out 
messages with particular keywords in them. Corporate 
systems are often designed to control or monitor the 
people who use them. “One grocery system set up for 
checkout terminals keeps track of how many mistakes 
each checker makes,” Marilyn Albin said. “It’s called 
performance monitoring, and it makes the checkout 
clerks afraid of the cash registers.” 
\ 
\ 
~~ 
But the technology also innately encourages freedom. 
Encryption methods known as public-key codes promise 
a cheap method of coding computer signals that even the 
