Sylvia Porter’s New Money Book 
Sylvia Porter is not kidding. 
This is about money, not 
so much how to make it but how to keep, save, and 
judiciously spend it. There is advice and information 
on every purchasing decision, and it is usually good advice. 
—Paul Hawken 
Sylvia Porter’s New 
Money Book for 
the 80's 
Sylvia Porter 
1975, 1979; 1,305 pp. 
$24.95 Postpaid from: 
Doubleday and Company 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, NY 11530 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
How To Find The Right Site 
Before you invest a penny in your dream house you must 
find the right property on which to build. 
Here’s how to 
go about it: 
© Find out from the town clerk's office the zoning regu- 
lations in the neighborhood in which the property you 
like is situated. 
e Ask for a survey of the lot. Exactly where are the 
boundaries? (Walk the lines yourself.) 
e Plan to invest in a title search, no matter how little 
the lot costs. 
e Find out from local lenders whether they will make 
home-building loans in your neighborhood. A good 
source of information is the Federal Housing Adminis- 
tration’s nearest branch office. The FHA considers 
the neighborhood as well as the individual house when 
it insures loans. 
e Inspect the lot after a heavy rain; if possible, after 
several days of downpour. That will show how rapidly 
surface water leaves the site. 
If a plot is filled, the fill 
may settle and take the house along with it. 
e Be wary of land subdivisions still in the ‘‘blueprint 
stage."" These always are a gamble. 
e 
What Fund For You? 
Every investor certainly should investigate funds. Many 
of you will find the funds are suitable for achieving your 
investment goals. 
To help you determine the kind of mutual fund that is 
best suited for you, here are broad guidelines. 
Specifically, if you are: 
e Single, earning under $15,000, with a savings-oriented 
(conservative) temperament: you should own an income 
fund with a dual goal of providing some longer-term 
capital growth. 
© Single, earning under $15,000, with a chance-taker’s 
(aggressive) temperament: yours should be a “total 
return” fund, concentrating on high-growth common 
stocks or a long-term growth fund. 
© Married, with two or three dependents, earning $15,000 
to $25,000, with a conservative temperament: the best 
for you would be a blue-chip, common stock fund, for 
long-term growth of both capital and income. 
© Married, with two or three dependents, earning $25,000 
and up, with a growth-oriented temperament: yours 
should be either a pu’e “‘income”’ fund, a ““money- 
market” fund, or a bond fund. 
e Working couple, earning $25,000 and up, with growth- 
oriented temperament: obviously, a growth fund is for 
you, so the investments can help you accumulate 
resources for future tuition needs, travel and other 
recreation, retirement, etc. 
© Older person, income coming from Social Security and 
some savings, with a conservative temperament and a 
goal of preservation of capital and more current income: 
ideally, the medium should be an income fund of the 
more conservative type which pays dividends and has 
some appreciation possibilities. Ora money-market 
fund which will preserve capital and offer a satisfactory 
yield. 
Why Should You Buy Mutual Funds? 
If | were to tell you that the investment advice given to 
the small investor in the United States is far inferior to 
that given to the big guy, and that the men and women 
who give that advice agree the above is true, wouldn't 
; 
you be deeply disturbed? Okay, I’m telling you that this 
is the opinion of an overwhelming percentage of the 
nation’s security analysts. According to a recent survey: 
¢ A shocking seven out of ten security analysts have 
“reservations about the advice available to the small 
investor as compared with that given the large one.” 
© Only one in three believes that ‘the quality of invest- 
ment advice now available adequately serves all types 
of investors.” 
¢ Nearly half favor “some form of blanket registration 
of security analysts” (in short, greater control). 
‘ 
OF 
i yw 
. e 
ORE IMPORTANT MISTAKES ARE 
_ 
made about personal finance — about money in 
general — than maybe any other easily correctable 
area of human folly. It’s one of those things that 
majoring in English, or being on the Left, or seeing 
yourself as a noble artist, scientist, or spiritual 
person can prevent you from ever getting right 
— to the vast detriment of your writing, politics, 
art, science, or spiritual practice. 
Money ain’t bad. Money is good. Restart from 
there and it’s no big problem, just a somewhat 
interesting chore, like personal health. 
—SB 
Successful Investing 
Just as the idioms of energy became the language of the 
seventies, economic terminology is suffusing us now. 
For 
a good read into the basic terms and concepts that inform 
the business section of the paper, Successful Investing wi// 
supply you with alot of information quickly. If you have 
some money to squirrel away, it is also laden with advice 
as to how to do it. It is a basic conservative approach. 
—Paul Hawken 
Successful Investing 
(A Complete Guide to 
Your Financial Future) 
Ronald K. Mills, Editor 
1979; 507 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
Simon and Schuster 
Attn: Order Department 
1230 Avenue of 
the Americas 
New York, NY 10020 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
The thoughts have all been expressed at least once before 
in this book; some will be expressed again. By bringing 
them together here, we provide a yardstick against which 
you can measure future investment decisions. Read them 
carefully. Commit them to memory. 
Recite them when- 
ever you have an investment decision to make. 
If you are 
a compulsive investor, tempted by every hot tip that 
comes your way, tattoo them to the back of your hand. 
Ignore them at your peril. 
The five: Set your goals. Buy the best-known companies. 
Invest for the long term. Avoid fads. Diversify. 
e 
Index Funds 
The Vanguard Group introduced the First Index Invest- 
ment Trust — the first index fund to be offered to the 
public — in August 1976. This fund, in common with a 
number of other index funds that are not available to 
the general public, seeks to provide investment results 
that correspond to the price and yield performance of 
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Composite Stock Price Index. 
The trust holds more than 400 of the issues in the S&P. 
Although the investing public has not warmed up to the 
notion of indexing, a number of major institutional 
investors have. The main target of the index fund 
marketers is the giant pension fund market. With tens of 
billions of dollars of assets, over half of which are invested 
in equities and with yearly contributions tending to run 
to more billions, the money flowing into private pension 
funds each year is roughly equivalent to a third or more 
of the total assets of the mutual fund industry. 
Although a fund may mimic a popular market average in 
a low-cost manner — index funds are ‘‘managed"’ by 
computer programs — there are many mutual funds that 
have outperformed any and all market averages over the 
long term. 
If you are content to ride the coattails of the 
Standard & Poor’s 500 and have no hopes of ever doing 
better than average in your investments, 
then index funds 
are for you, Otherwise, stick to managed mutual funds, 
where good judgment pays off in good performance. 
e 
A list of good quality growth funds would include these: 
Johnston Mutual Fund 
Putnam Investors Fund 
National Investors Corp. 
T. Rowe Price Growth Stock 
David L. Babson Investment Fund _ 
Pioneer Fund 
Fund 
Here’s a sampling of funds that stress high current income: 
= 
David L. Babson Income Trust American General Bond Fund® 
Northeast Investors Trust 
Fort Dearborn Income Securities* 
Rowe Price New Income Fund Montgomery Street Income 
Securities° 
Here are some that emphasize both growth and income: 
Affiliated Fund 
Financial Industrial Income Fund 
‘American Mutual Fund 
Guardian Mutual Fund 
Decatur Income Fund 
Windsor Fund 
| 
Here’s a potpourri of funds that tend to invest in speculative 
stocks. These funds are not for the faint at heart: 
Acorn Fund 
Pioneer II 
Mathers Fund 
Putnam Voyager Fund 
Over-the-Counter Securities 
Scudder Special 
Value Line Special Situations 
eS 
VSLSS ES Sass 
(=) 
 (- 
~ 
bes 
—- 
ep 
Money, Honey, 1980 
by George von Hilsheimer 
/n the month or so since Art Kleiner phoned me to ask 
for a 10 year anniversary comment on my “Money, 
Honey” article in The Last Whole Earth Catalog, /‘ve 
had fun diddling around modeling all the strategies | 
might have used following my own advice in 1970. 
$30,000 invested at maximum leverage in bags of U.S. 
silver dimes could have been cashed in this year for 
$2,000,000 — that’s figuring worst case interest on the 
leverage and having just left it all alone to fatten the 
bankers whilst it fattened you. 
Our commune invested exactly that amount in 1969, but 
bailed out in three years to buy farmland. 
The farmland 
has not appreciated at all, at all, but we are not complain- 
ing. We've essentially had no money hassles. We are 
grateful that JFK and his co-thieves had such a delirious 
money policy. 
The Feds recently sold silver “dollars” 
for 45 to 65 paper “dollars.“” My. A rose is a rose but 
a dollar isn’t a dollar. 
The second option | suggested 11 years ago made us a 
mere 1000% profit. 
Two bars of silver we bought at 
$1.55 per ounce in 1969 were sold in 1979 for $16 an 
ounce, less 5% smelter’s fee. With a little bit of luck we 
could have sold them at $50 an ounce in February, but that’s 
crap shooting. 
!n silver, just follow your long term plan, 
using YEARS or catastrophes as your selling semaphore. 
! couldn't advise you to buy gold in 1970; but had you 
done so when it became legal for “free’” Americans to 
own gold, then your money would have appreciated at 
an annual rate of 22.65% (this is the real return, adjusted 
for inflation). 
The three best investments in the last decade have been 
gold, silver, and stamps. 
The best money investment has 
been Swiss francs which earned a real adjusted return of 
3.7% each year. 
Honey Money for 1990 
/ assume that anyone with good sense has some silver 
coin buried in the back 40 against the day everything 
falls apart and people refuse the politicians’ printed 
promises they laughingly call “money.” Silver on down- 
swings is still a good buy if you don’t plan to read the 
financial pages and do plan to keep the silver until at least 
7990 or the balloon goes up. | prefer silver to gold because 
of the ease of investing in it, the ready recognizability of 
a genuine U.S. silver dime, and the availability of 
small denominations. 
A dime minted from 1916 through 1965 contains .07234 
of an ounce of 
pure silver. When silver is $49 an ounce, 
a real dime is worth $3.54; whereas on the historical 
silver/gold average ratio of 20:1 a gold Krugerrand will 
be around $900 —a 
little big to use to pay for a 
pound 
of hamburger. 
The silver market has been discovered by the lemmings, 
and for anything other than survival or planning in 
decades, silver as an investment is a crap shoot — maybe 
a bit less honest. However, | don’t think anyone who 
bought silver at $40 in February, and buried it and 
stopped reading newspapers and digs it up in February 
1990, is going to be unhappy. 
Reliable Old Gnomes, Making Honey Better’n Bees 
Unfortunately, there is in 1980 no analogous madness to 
the insanity organized by the late sainted JFK when he 
decided to sell off the largest accumulation of silver in 
history. | have nothing as safe and wonderful as lever- 
aged U.S. dimes to recommend in 1980. 
Therefore, it’s the Swiss gnomes as your honey bees 
for 1990. 
/t used to be that a prudent fellow could purchase an 
annuity through an assurance society and reliably plan 
his fading years in the safety and glory of the U.S. dollar. 
These days you might as well use toilet paper for an 
umbrella. 
In 1970 had you bought a fixed annuity of 
1,000 U.S. dollars each month from a U.S. firm dealing 
in U.S. dollars, by 1979 you would need 700 extra 
dollars to keep even; but your assurance society would be 
paying you only the same little grand. 
An annuity bought the same year from a Swiss Assurance 
Society would be paying more than $2,600 in 1979. 
Your style of living would have jounced merrily up ward, 
gilded by Swiss good sense and a commodity (gold) 
backed currency. 
There never has been a failure of a 
Swiss Assurance Society; the same ethics and legal protec- 
tion of legal confidentiality hold as obtain for Swiss 
banks. 
There are no nasty penalties as in holding Swiss 
francs outright; and the downside risk is very small. Wi th 
a Swiss annuity you are betting on 300 years of stability 
