COMMUNITY 
HOSPITAL CARE 
Anatomy of an IIIness 
Peerless reading for the hospital bed. Norman Cousins, 
long-time editor of Saturday Review, acquired a second 
fame a couple of years ago with an article in the presti- 
gious New England Journal of Medicine chronicling his 
self-inflicted recovery from a crippling and supposedly 
irreversible ailment (his spine was disintegrating). 
With the aid of his unusual doctor Cousins got the hell 
out of the hospital, took full responsibility for his own 
treatment, and began trying stuff — massive vitamin C, 
massive cheerfulness (the famous home-showing of Marx 
Brothers and Candid Camera films). 
The miracle of cure plus Cousins’ intellectual and lively 
presentation has made this one of the most influential 
medical documents ever. Patients read it and act differ- 
ently. So do doctors. So do hospitals. 
—SB 
Anatomy of an Illness 
(As Perceived by the 
Patient: Reflections 
on Healing and 
Regeneration) 
Norman Cousins 
1979; 173 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
W.W. Norton & Company 
500 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10036 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
| had a fast-growing conviction that a hospital is no place 
for a person who is seriously ill. The surprising lack of 
respect for basic sanitation; the rapidity with which 
staphylococci and other pathogenic organisms can run 
through an entire hospital; the extensive and sometimes 
promiscuous use of X-ray equipment; the seemingly 
indiscriminate administration of tranquilizers and power- 
ful painkillers, sometimes more for the convenience of 
hospital staff in managing patients than for therapeutic 
needs; and the regularity with which hospital routine 
takes precedence over the rest requirements of the patient 
(slumber, when it comes for anill person, is an uncommon 
blessing and is not to be wantonly interrupted) — all these 
and other practices seemed to me to be critical short- 
comings of the modern hospital. 
e 
| made the joyous discovery that ten minutes of genuine 
belly laughter had an anesthetic effect and would give me 
at least two hours of pain-free sleep. When the painkilling 
effect of the laughter wore off, we would switch on the 
motion-picture projector again, and, not infrequently, 
it would lead to another pain-free sleep interval. Some- 
times, the nurse read to me out of a trove of humor books. 
Especially useful were E.B. and Katharine White’s Sub- 
treasury of American Humor and Max Eastman’s The 
Enjoyment of Laughter. 
The Merck Manual 
/n 2188 type-packed pages this book covers most of the 
possible illness and injuries that can occur to human 
beings. Each difficulty is described, symptoms are dis- 
cussed and suggested treatments are indicated. 
The writing is extremely technical and is designed as a 
ready reference for practicing nurses and physicians. 
Unless you are at ease with the unusually colorful language 
of modern medicine you will need a medical dictionary 
to fully understand this book. 
While a considerable portion of the advice given is sensible 
and does not require a doctor’s presence, much of the 
book will not be of use to persons who do not have access 
to medical supplies. 
This book is not intended in any 
sense for primitive or simple living conditions; it does 
not describe alternatives if medical treatment is not 
available nor does it suggest folk treatments in lieu of 
hospitalization. However, if you want to understand 
what is going on when a member of your family or com- 
munity is seriously ill, this volume can be helpful. There 
is an excellent index as well as a special section devoted to 
specific prescriptions and special therapies. 
The excerpts 
given below illustrate both the common-sense and the 
technical aspects of this volume. 
—James Fadiman 
| 
PETIT MAL SEIZURE 
Synchronous 3/sec spikes & waves 
The Merck Manual 
(Of Diagnosis 
and Therapy) 
1899, 1977; 2188 pp. 
$9.75 postpaid from: 
Merck and Company 
P.O. Box 2000 
Rahway, NJ 07065 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
HEAT PROSTRATION 
(Heat Collapse, Exhaustion, or Syncope) 
Avsyndrome resu!lting from exposure to excessive heat, 
characterized by prostration and circulatory collapse. 
Etiology 
Heat prostration results from failure to adjust to the dila- 
tion of the skin blood vessels, a primary response to heat. 
Alcohol intake, dehydration, excessive sweating, vomiting, 
and diarrhea increase the probability of its development. 
Heat prostration may complicate surgery performed in a 
hot environment. 
Symptoms and Signs 
The patient is listless, apprehensive, and often semicoma- 
tose or unconscious. The skin is ashen, cold, and damp; 
sweating may be profuse, blood pressure depressed, and 
peripheral vascular failure evident. Premonitory symptoms 
— weakness, dizziness, vertigo, headache, nausea, dim or 
blurred vision, irritability and mild muscular cramps — 
may precede the attack. The pulse rate is usually under 
100; body temperature is normal. 
Diagnosis and Prognosis 
Heat prostration is differentiated from food or chemical 
poisoning by the history and rapid response to treatment. 
It is usually transient, and the prognosis is excellent 
although death can occur from uncorrected circulatory 
failure or subsequent hyperpyrexia. 
Prophylaxis 
Physical exertion with profuse sweating must be avoided 
by unacclimatized persons. 
Fluid intake should be suf- 
ficient to maintain a urinary volume of at least 1 L/day. 
Light, loose, well-ventilated clothing is generally advisable, 
although insulated clothing may be preferable in hot, 
dry, desert conditions or in enclosures with high wall 
temperatures (e.g., boilers or kilns). Unacclimatized 
persons should increase their sodium chloride intake by 
taking 1 or 2 Gm orally with water q.i.d., especially in 
hot dry environments. 
Treatment 
The patient should be placed in a recumbent position, in 
a cool environment, with clothing loosened. Cool water 
may be given orally. Management of acute circulatory 
failure is the essential problem. Patients in profound 
collapse should be given isotonic saline solution 1500 ml 
1V slowly and cautiously to avoid overloading an already 
embarrassed circulation. Cardiac stimulants (e.g., epine- 
phrine 1:1000, 0.3 to 1 mi s.c.), plasma volume expanders 
(e.g., albumin, dextran), and 02 may be given. Sodium 
bicarbonate is contraindicated. 
Notes on Nursing 
Getting Well Again 
From home care to special ward, this guide to “think how 
to nurse” 
by Florence Nightingale, first published in 1859, 
is still the finest book on nursing, according to Dr. Richard 
Lamerton of St. Joseph’s Hospice in London. 
It articu- 
lates the basics of bedside care in a way no advance of 
technical medicine has been able to improve on. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Richard Lamerton] 
Notes on Nursing 
=, 
(What it is, and 
what it is not) 
Florence Nightingale 
1859, 1969; 140 pp. 
$3 postpaid from: 
Doubleday and Company 
180 Varick Street 
New York, 
NY 10014 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
| knew a very clever physician, of large dispensary and 
hospital practice, who invariably began his examination of 
each patient with ‘‘Put your finger where you be bad.” 
That man would never waste his time with collecting 
inaccurate information from nurse or patient. Leading 
questions always collect inaccurate information. 
In watching diseases, both in private houses and in public 
hospitals, the thing which strikes the experienced observer 
most forcibly is this, that the symptoms or the sufferings 
generally considered to be inevitable and incident to the 
disease are very often not symptoms of the disease at all, 
but of something quite different — of the want of fresh air 
or of light, or of warmth, or of quiet, or of cleanliness, or 
of punctuality and care in the administration of diet, of 
each or of all of these. 
e 
One hint | would give to all who attend or visit the sick, to 
all who have to pronounce an opinion upon sickness or its 
progress. Come back and look at your patient after he 
has had an hour’s animated conversation with you. 
It is 
the best test of his real state we know. 
There is no better society than babies and sick people 
for one another. 
This is the famous “Simonton imaging technique” that 
the families and friends of cancer patients are urgently 
telling each other about. Since many patients are in no 
shape to read, the Simontons offer an excellent set of 
cassettes, available from: Cancer Counseling and Research 
Center, 1300 Summit 
Avenue — Suite 710, Fort Worth, 
Texas 76102. Phone: (817) 335-4823. 
—SB 
Getting Well Again 
(A Step-by-Step, Self-Help 
Guide to Overcoming 
Cancer for Patients 
and Their Families) 
O. Carl Simonton, M.D., 
Stephanie Matthews- 
Simonton, James Creighton 
1978; 268 pp. 
$1 0.20 postpaid from: 
J.P. Tarcher 
9110 Sunset Boulevard 
Suite 212 
Los Angeles, CA 90069 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
Picture your body’s own white blood cells coming 
into the area where the cancer is, recognizing the abnor- 
mal cells, and destroying them. There is a vast army of 
white blood cells. They are very strong and aggressive. 
They are also very smart. There is no contest between 
them and the cancer cells; they will win the battle. 
e 
Picture the cancer shrinking. See the dead cells being 
carried away by the white blood cells and being flushed 
from your body through the liver and kidneys and 
eliminated in the urine and the stool. This is your expec- 
tancy of what you want to happen. Continue to see the 
cancer shrinking, until it is all gone. See yourself having 
more energy and a better appetite and being able to feel 
comfortable and loved in your family as the cancer 
shrinks and finally disappears. 
e 
If you are experiencing pain anywhere in your body, 
picture the army of white blood cells flowing into that 
area and soothing the pain. Whatever the problem, give 
your body the command to heal itself. Visualize your 
body becoming well. 
e 
Imagine yourself well, free of disease, full of energy. 
eeceoeveoereecee 
eo 
eco 
ee 
eee 
ee 
ee 
Betty’s Initial Imagery, Showing Anger and, Hostility. 
Betty’s Imagery Six Months Later 
eee 
eee 
ee eee eee 
eee 
e ee 
eee eee eee ene 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
Florence Nightingale was named Florence because 
she was conceived in Florence, Italy, and it wasn’t 
a person’s name before that and then she became 
famous and many people were named that. 
325 
