hoes 
a. 
2 
Se 
~~ he = ee 
P22 
INSIDE 
SOFT TECHNOLOGY 
HOUSE DESIGN 
Designing Houses 
Though not billed as such, Designing Houses is a thing- 
maker’s dream book! . 
Even if designing and building your 
own “big house” 
is not within your current reach, you 
cannot help being caught up in the enthusiasm generated 
within. Model making is stressed throughout, starting 
with the setting up of your own “architect's office,“ 
obtaining the instruments and tools of the trade and quite 
an ample course on cardboard construction. 
Best of all 
are the drawings: neat, simple, funky, their inevitable 
influence on your own sketches makes this handsome 
volume underpriced... now where did | lay my X-acto... 
—Joe Eddy Brown 
/ agree with Joe Eddy Brown that this is an exceptionally 
fine book. My only reservation is that the presentation 
subtly tends to keep you traditional, which for many will 
—J. Baldwin 
do just fine anyway. 
Designing Houses 
(An Illustrated Guide) 
Les Walker and 
Jeff Milstein 
1976; 153 pp. 
$5.95 (paperback price) 
Postpaid from: 
The Overlook Press 
Viking Press 
299 Murray Hill Parkway 
East Rutherford, NJ 07073 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The model is now placed on a large piece of white paper 
and the size is sketched at an appropriate size so that 
views, sun, shade, and breezes can be checked. 
Necessary changes are made. 
From the Ground Up 
After the first wave of books on a given subject a host of 
imitators usually appears offering little improvement 
other than an occasional gimmick. The gimmick in this 
book on post-industrial home-building is worth checking 
out: the authors have included a quickie course in struc- 
tural principles. They are also good on frost heaving, 
selection of wood, and other arcana that is very good to 
know but that is usually left out of similar books. 
They 
want you to know why you ‘e being told to do it that 
way. Nice drawings, too. 
—J. Baldwin 
From the Ground Up 
John N. Cole and 
Charles Wing 
1976; 244 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid from: 
Little, Brown & Co., Inc. 
200 West Street 
Waltham, MA 02154 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
Your Engineered House 
A real good book for goosing your thinking about house 
design. Some wisdom, some good ideas, and some bad 
ideas, just like you'll have. Rex Roberts’ book has primed 
a Jot of mental pumps. 
—SB 
Your Engineered 
House 
Rex Roberts 
1964; 237 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid from: 
M. Evans and Company 
216 East 49th Street 
New York, NY 10017 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
OUTSIDE 
ar 
First, the built-in, slightly slanted windowpanes. 
| don’t 
mean the heavily slanted windows used by some archi- 
tects in an attempt to be different. For years I’ve been 
e 
You have two choices: Build a practice house and make 
all of your mistakes before you start your own; or “build 
it’ on paper with a sharp pencil and architect's scale. | 
recommend the latter. 
If the house doesn’t work out all 
you've wasted is a piece of paper and a few evenings of fun. 
Here is what a set of drawings, done carefully with a 
minimum number of drafting tools, will do for you: 
(1) As you develop the details of the drawings, you will 
be forced to make design decisions that you otherwise 
could put off until actually confronted with the physical 
reality. A scale drawing would have shown an acquaint- 
ance of mine that his window glass was larger than the 
window frame opening and that the windowsill wasn‘t 
wide enough to extend beyond the wall sheathing, with 
the result that rainwater flowed into the wall space. 
(2) Because you are actually building the house on paper, 
fastening problems become immediately apparent. How 
will the Sheetrock be nailed at the room corners? How 
will the wiring be concealed? 
(3) Your material list will be precise because the number 
and dimensions of all framing members are easily calcu- 
lated from the drawing. 
(4) Angle cuts such as are required for rafters can be 
measured on paper instead of by intricate trigonometric 
calculations or by seat-of-the-pants guesswork. 
(5) You will better know how the house will finally look 
on its site. 
(6) You will have an efficient means of communica- 
tion with: 
(a) the banker, who will be more willing to loan money. 
A picture may be worth a thousand words but it’s also 
worth several-thousand dollars. 
building all my glass with the top leaning out at an angle 
of about one inch in twenty. 
I’ve never happened to run 
across this detail in any other house, or in a book or 
magazine. Yet at one look the benefits of this detail 
are there to see. 
The glare is strikingly less than from a vertical pane. This 
is the first thing you notice. 
The glass stays clean longer on the outside, which collects 
more dirt and is less convenient to clean. The dirt it does 
have, either inside or out is less noticeable. 
The acoustic improvement is tremendous. 
Tipping the panes slightly, not in itself noticeable unless 
your attention is called to it, removes what some people 
feel is the glacial unfriendliness of large expanses of glass. 
au T 
Second and very very important, are the manifold virtues 
of a single-slope roof with its long dimension and high 
side toward the south, or ideally, south by southeast. 
The Owner-Builder and The Code 
When push comes to shove, the Big Problem with building 
your own home is usually something to do with getting 
the abode of your desires past the building inspector. 
This is even more of aproblem if you are not quite the 
sort of folks the local folks are used to. What do you do? 
This handbook of case histories and strategy is by none 
other than that old master Ken Kern and friends. 
It’s 
about as good a source of information as one could 
hope for. Whether your inclination is compliance or 
defiance, youd best give this a look. See also Building 
Regulations, p. 225. 
—J. Baldwin 
The Owner-Builder 
and The Code 
(Politics of Building 
Your Home) 
Ken Kern, Ted Kogon, 
and Rob Thallon 
1976; 182 pp. 
$5 postpaid from: 
Owner-Builder 
Publications 
P.O. Box 817 
North Fork, CA 93643 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
An example comes to mind of three owner-builders in a 
rural, Northern California county who were ordered to 
tear down their ‘‘substandard’’ homes. They had been 
cited for typical housing code violations — lack of proper 
water closet, lack of adequate heating facilities, room 
dimensions less than those required by the code, etc. 
Rather than pay the expense of having the county do it, 
they dismantled the homes themselves. The three, 
knowing that demolition of their homes was inevitable, 
had lived under psychological duress during the year-long 
abatement proceedings against them. Even the local 
building inspector conceded that the houses, though tacky 
in appearance, were warm and cozy quarters inside. The 
destruction of their homes put an end to their homestead 
development and virtually ruined them economically. 
Ultimately, they were forced to move into a rat-infested 
apartment building in the city. The rent was exorbitant, 
as city rates often are, and the creaky building was a far 
cry from the comfort they had known in their former 
homes, which were vermin-free. The letter of the code 
had been served, but had justice? 
—) 
A poorly designed bedroom with the minimum ‘‘super- 
ficial floor area” allowed by the code compared to a 
bedroom with one sixth the allowable area. 
nl 
(b) subcontractors, who will dare to give tighter bids if 
they know precisely what is involved. 
(c) your workers, who won't require your presence at 
every turn. The amount of time your workers will not 
be sitting under a tree drinking beer while you fret 
over an unexpected problem will alone pay for your 
initial effort. 
(d) yourself. When everything seems to be going wrong 
and three people are bugging you over details any fool 
should understand, your blueprints will remain unperturbed. 
(7) Last and most important, drafting will teach you a 
self-discipline that is required in efficient and low-cost 
housebuilding. 
In summary, a month of evenings at the drafting board 
will save weeks of labor, as muchas 25 percent of the cost. 
This one structural detail contributes to more of our 
housing goals than any other single thing | can think of. 
It invites heat in winter, keeps it out in summer. 
It invites winter light, controls summer light. 
It provides a 
roofed, sunny outside area at no extra charge. 
Its acoustics are superb. No charge. 
Ventilation works perfectly without further effort 
or expense. 
It confines the water run-off problem to one side only, 
the least useful side, at that. 
It contributes to a feeling of spaciousness, but the actual 
cubic content to be heated is the same as with an A-frame, 
or a little less. 
Its interior shape is friendly, varied, inviting, pleasantly 
unsymmetrical. 
Its outside weather surface is cheap to build and easy 
to maintain. All parts of its roof structure involve a 
minimum of cutting and fitting. 
OUTSIDE 
Le 
VERTICAL OUTER BOARDING 
ont ome 
& 
fa 
VERTICAL 
BATTENS 
2 
LUMINUM FOIL, 
SHINY SIDE ovr 
HORIZONTAL 
_BATTENS 
EVER 
Two 
FEET 
PLZZ 
a a aD NN \\ 
ss 
“VERTICAL BATTENS AT Doors 
FiuMINUMA 
FOIL, SHINY SIDE IN 
Z 
72 S 
“| 
VERTICAL 
BOARDS, HEART SIDE IN, 
ae 
OR 
PLY Wood 
INSIDE 
HOW TO BUILD 
A WALL 
