POLITICS 
POWER 
The Craft of Power 
An astounding treatise on the naked wielding of naked 
power — how to get it, hold it, use it. Appearing more 
brutal than it is (Siu’s bottom lines reflect on compas- 
sion and nobility), the argument proceeds from a torrent 
of Machiavellian aphorisms to instruction and anecdote. 
If you have a talent for power, this book may set it 
resonating. 
If you have no taste for power, you'll find 
that out more quickly here than in the polite corridors of 
the real thing. 
Siu is the author of the Tao of Science (p. 29), a trans- 
lation of the | Ching, and other works. He has been head 
of numerous research departments for the U.S. military. 
This book is the first of a trilogy on leadership. 
—SB 
The Craft of Power 
R.G.H. Siu 
1979; 255 pp. 
$14.95 postpaid from: 
John Wiley and Sons 
One Wiley Drive 
Somerset, NJ 08873 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
The seasoned bureaucrat is adept at servo-bureaucrato 
viscosity: to every challenge there is an equal and frustrat- 
ing viscosity. He dwells in the nirvana of historical 
momentum: reversing a bureaucrat is tantamount to 
reversing history. 
Accommodate to the bureaucrat; he will then ease your 
life and extend your power. But do you otherwise; he 
will then drive you out of office and out of mind. 
e 
People are to be used like fuel in the furnace of 
power, or cleared away like worn-out gears for more 
efficient replacements. 
So that they burn with the requisite intensity, cleanse 
them of incombustible allegiances. 
Let the cadre prove its selfless commitment and offer 
up their persons as signed undated blank checks in 
your strongbox. 
Do not place undue weight on that course of action 
promising maximum gain, if successful. 
Limit the choices 
to those preventing a fatal blow to yourself, no matter 
what the opposition may feasibly do. 
e 
Credibility is the greatest obstacle to many an overture 
to power. 
Repeat your thesis often, for people tend to shun the 
unfamiliar and embrace the familiar. Use phrases melliflu- 
ous to the ear, for people like to identify with the 
pleasant. Make it sound vital, for people incline to align 
with the important. Announce your intentions to 
accomplish something, which is actually well on the way. 
Promise something that seems difficult but is within 
ready reach of your unseen reserves. 
Then let the people conclude for themselves that you are 
truly a man of your word. 
e 
Propitiousness There is nothing more important in 
imparting elegance and style than the art of being pro- 
pitious. The essence of propitiousness is good timing. 
More failures in the exercise of power have been due to 
poor timing than any other single factor. 
When Catherine the Great ascended the throne she tried 
to introduce the liberal ideas of Charles de Montesquieu. 
But the Russian state of mind was not receptive. 
Her 
ministers balked, and the peasant uprising of Emilien 
Pugachev of 1773 forced her to drop the idea. 
It took 
another 120 years before the time was ripe for even a 
semblance of parliament. 
In our own day, there are relatively few executives who 
possess a really keen sense of timing. Most of them do 
not know how to use the instrument of time. They are 
unable to allow precisely for lead time, lag time, incuba- 
tion time, time to build up a head of steam, time to 
forget, time to get bored, time to stop talking, and so on, 
They do not have the feeling for matching the duration 
of different acts to come into fruition against their 
respective times of need. They fail to lay the basis for 
the resolution of conflicts before their actual onset. As 
a result, they only struggle with the fortitude of facing 
crisis after crisis. They never glide with the art of 
de-existing them. 
Transcending the Power Game: 
The Way to Executive Serenity 
This sequel to The Craft of Power is as benign as the 
other book is fierce. 
It consoles, congratulates, advises 
balance and pace, even gives practical guidance about 
eventual retirement. 
Where before Siu was talking 
about his bosses, here, one senses, the old Chinese 
gentleman is talking about himself. He speaks thus 
comfortably and with authority from the longest, 
soundest bureaucratic tradition on Earth. Badly needed 
ginseng in headlong America. 
(The last book in his trilogy will be called The 
Master Manager. ) 
Transcending 
the Power Game: 
The Way to 
Executive Serenity 
R.G.H. Siu 
1980; 249 pp. 
$14.95 postpaid from: 
John Wiley and Sons 
One Wiley Drive 
Somerset, NJ 08873 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
A person travels farther, lasts longer, and acts more 
equably if he taxes himself at a fraction of his capabilities. 
Because of the resulting large reserve, he is not appre- 
hensive over possible emergencies. 
His body is not 
fatigued and his mind not numbed. He dwells in the 
midst of difficulties, feeling no despair; brings his goals 
within ready reach, regretting no rewards passed over. 
There is no need for sycophancy before superiors, nor 
abuse before subordinates. 
His is an easy-going discipline, 
a genial demeanor, absorbing attention. He induces an 
airiness of festive calm. His presence is a pleasance. 
Cruising is prerequisite to the life of graciousness. 
e 
A creature in pain is more pain than creature. To 
remove the pain is to restore the self. 
There can be no greater good than that a man or beast 
be given back his self. 
Let the reduction of suffering be the foundational ex- 
Pression of your relating to others on earth. 
e 
If you plant for a season, plant budgets. 
If you plant 
for a decade, plant reorganizations. 
If you plant for a 
century, plant people. 
The annealing of an act into a gracious one requires a 
certain all-absorbing attention on the recipient, a certain 
sincerity of forgetfulness of oneself, a certain fitness to 
the fineness of the moment, and a certain genuineness 
about it all. 
Action from gov't 
I’ve found that one of the best ways to get anything out 
of the national government is by writing directly to your 
congressperson; the best way to gain results with a state 
agency (unless you have an unusually good state repre- 
sentative) is through a letter to the governor's office, 
although this approach may vary from state to state. 
Bob Murphy 
Sierra Club volunteer 
Boston, Massachusetts 
Congressional hit record 
Note to pragmatic existentialists: 
no matter how whole 
your particular earth, there’s always somebody in Wash- 
ington that wants to deal it away. Protect yourself with 
the Congressional Record. A bit windy but you'll learn 
how to read it with a little practice. And burns slowly 
with good heat for after use in the fireplace. Write your 
Congressman and Senators first, to see if they can add 
you to their comp list. 
If not: $75 per year, 50 cents 
per copy, payable in advance. Check or money order 
payable to Superintendent of Documents, Government 
Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402. Well worth 
the investment. 
MY 
Union, Maine 
Taaae 
eal 
eis 
sib 
#80. 
6 
fe: 
0) 
e 
e668 
[6 
6 S 
bn0 
+80 
Nee 
Thoughts 
/t used to be said that the only safe political behavior 
(nevermind one’s pronouncements) was to be econo- 
mically liberal and socially conservative. 
Jerry Brown 
reversed that formula, made it work, and it’s becoming 
the new conventional wisdom. 
This collection of remarks, chosen from the press by poet 
Lawrence Ferlinghetti during the first year or so of 
Brown’s governorship of California, conveys the freshness 
of thought he brought to a stale game. 
The special appeal 
of the man, besides his inte/ligence, is his willingness to 
learn before your very eyes and include you in the process. 
—SB 
Thoughts 
Edmund G. Brown, Jr. 
1976; 79 pp. 
$2 postpaid from: 
City Lights Books 
1562 Grant Avenue 
San Francisco, CA 94133 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
I’m going to be very reluctant to approve of spending 
which does not require basic fundamental structural 
reforms wherever possible, because just pumping more 
money into the machine is not going to turn around the 
very difficult situation that we face in the schools. 
If you 
look at the reading scores, look at the achievement scores, 
talk to kids, talk to teachers, there is something wrong in 
the classroom. Now much of it reflects a certain malaise 
in the society, and | don’t really hold the teachers 
accountable because of the failures of the system. 
It’sa 
problem for those in government and those in a position 
of responsibility to make the changes. 
I'd like to see some changes. And when people come for 
the money, that’s the opportunity to make the change. 
If you just give it away without requiring this kind of 
change then you lose an opportunity. 
| don’t want to 
see that opportunity lost in the event we can make some 
constructive changes. 
e 
There is an elephantiasis that takes over that you get so 
big you can’t function. 
| think if you look at the classical 
world, as the political entity expanded its role and respon- 
sibility, it ran into problems both in Greece and Rome 
that it could not handle. And it was accompanied by 
these generalized and mystical feelings that as the borders 
expanded, as the discipline weakened, as the decadence 
increased, as the classes that were in the leadership 
position lost their nerve, then those on the perimeter 
ultimately came through. 
In 410, when Mr. Alaric walked 
through, where we had this wonderful civilization, there 
was grass and wild dogs wandering around. That is not, 
you know, a lesson that is ignored with impunity. 
e 
If they [politicians] would just kind of jump out for a 
while, and then maybe come back. But they stay long 
beyond their time. The Greeks had that — ostracism. 
Ostragon is the potsherd that’s dropped in the pot. 
If 
the majority drop it in then you're out. There was a 
fellow named Aristides the Just. Aristides the Just was 
going through his ostracization process, and he stood 
there and as some Athenian came by to drop in the 
potsherd which was an indication for him to exile, 
Aristides said, ‘Why are you doing that? Haven't | been 
a good man?” And the Athenian said, “Look, we’re tired 
of hearing the name of Aristides the Just.” 
| think there’s a certain amount of truth to that 
. 
. 
. once 
in power, no one ever likes to give it up. Because it 
becomes addictive. 
It becomes co-terminous with your 
Own identity with yourself, and so it becomes very hard 
to shake loose from. So all this detached philosophizing, 
but when the moment of separation comes, | suppose 
.. 
. 
they say they throw you out or carry you out. But! think 
it’s probably good to make it a relatively brief period. 
You don’t have to do things. Maybe by avoiding doing 
things you accomplish quite a lot. Maybe if Kennedy had 
avoided the Bay of Pigs or Vietnam, that would have been 
quite an accomplishment. 
eee 
eee 
eee eee 
ee eee 
eee eee 
eee 
ee eeee 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
Multiple choice continued from last spread 
7. “Regard everything as an experiment.”’ Corita 
Kent’s 6th law of teaching and learning; (Ideas 
emerge from relaxation but on the other hand 
some of us can’t relax until we’ve put it off three 
months past the last minute and decided it will 
prove our basic worth or lack of and then 
by putting it off we’ve proved lack of and then 
given up and relaxed and let the idea happen, but 
I suppose one could relax at the beginning.) 
397 
