Let me try to be as 
ambiguous as possible. I am 
an Anarchist and I am not. 
Iam a Socialist and I am not. 
Iam a Communist and I am 
not. I am a Libertarian and I 
am not. I am not what I say 
Iam, I am what I say. I 
while making inroads into Jerry Brown’s 
bureaucracy. Tom & Jane’s national CED 
roadshow in late 1979 barnstormed 
against nuclear power while attempting to 
spread CED nationwide, but the organiza- 
tion’s strength remains close to home 
in California for now. 
vacillate and I donot. Iam 
all these things and I am not. 
I can be pinned down and I 
can’t. I like to label others. 
I do not like to be labelled 
by others. I believe in the 
masses and trust no one. I 
believe that I am God and I 
am an atheist. I believe that 
you are God and let you get 
away with murder. Clarity 
only arrives when one 
realizes that it is impossible. 
All emphatic statements I 
make are false. All qualifiers 
are cowardly. All negotia- 
tions are bad vibes, man. 
Got that? Good. Let’s 
start over. 
—Jay Kinney 
Intro 
OMMON SENSE TELLS US 
that politics is a complex 
area not easily understood, and cynicism 
further suggests that we leave politics to 
the politicians while we get on with real 
life. There’s some truth to both notions. 
However, politics left to the “experts” 
has a way of abruptly re-entering our lives, 
whether invited or not — witness the draft 
—and elementary self-defense would 
Suggest at least a passing acquaintance 
not only with the present system but with 
the most commonly proposed alternatives, 
as well. 
The following survey of the Left is a 
tentative attempt to shed some light on 
one set of alternatives and its advocates. 
The Left taday is not the left of the ’60s, 
and even a veteran of the anti-war move- 
ment is bound to be puzzled by the 
plethora of new groups that have appeared 
in the ’70s. While my survey is far from 
complete (and unavoidably subjective), 
I have tried to’set out the main cate- 
gories and summarize the most notable 
groups therein. 
Some of the political formations com- 
monly associated with the Left (such as 
the Women’s, Third World, and Gay 
movements) have not been covered in 
this survey, in part because they cut 
across the political and economic catego- 
ries used here and partly due to my own 
limited familiarity with their complexities. 
That they fall outside the confines of this 
survey in no way diminishes the import- 
ance they hold for the Left as a whole. 
And now, without further delay, let’s 
dive in and see what we find. 
Liberals 
Most numerous of all inhabitants of the 
Left are the Liberals. Traditionally asso- 
ciated with the Democratic party, and 
more recently with lobbying groups like 
Common Cause or Ralph Nader’s armies, 
the liberals need little introduction. 
Broadly speaking, they share the assump- 
tion that a just and generous life is 
possible for all under the present 
economic/political system, if only the 
right reforms and laws are enacted. Wel- 
fare and busing are two familiar liberal 
programs to combat poverty and segre- 
gregation — programs which have had 
decidedly mixed results. 
Cartoonist Jay Kinney, routinely our best- 
informed and most objective source of 
news on the Left, has a comic book 
history ranging from Young Lust to 
Corporate Crime and Anarchy Comics. 
Researching this 1980 field guide nearly 
finished him off. The Left is an elusive 
and slippery subject (and, like the South, 
will rise again). 
—SB 
U4 
Throughout the ‘70s, the liberals have 
been gradually splitting into two tenden- 
cies. One tendency has drifted right- 
ward, acquiring more and more conserva- 
tive characteristics. This approach has 
been particularly popular with politicians 
campaigning to be all things to all people. 
The second tendency, observable with 
some labor leaders such as the United 
Auto Workers’(UAW) Doug Fraser, has 
been to shift further left, advocating more 
drastic reforms — even toying with (gasp!) 
the nationalization of some industries. 
Since liberal groups get the best media 
coverage and have the most pervasive pub- 
licity on the Left, I'll not bother to cover 
them in detail here. As the coalition to 
end all coalitions, the recently formed 
Progressive Alliance is worth mentioning, 
however. Originally called together by 
UAW prexy Doug Fraser in the fall of 
1978, and consisting of leaders from over 
30 labor groups, numerous Dem. political 
organizations, every liberal issue group 
imaginable (National Organization for 
Women, National Association for the 
Advancement of Colored People, Friends 
of the Earth, Americans for Democratic 
Action, etc.) as well as two socialist groups 
(the Democratic Socialist Organizing 
Committee and the New American Move- 
ment), the Alliance began in a flurry of 
thetoric about the need for “‘a vigorous 
counterattack against the right-wing 
corporate forces and the political system 
they dominate.” The Alliance has yet to 
solidly implement such intentions, how- 
ever, and in the absence of any mechanism 
for support from grass-roots activists 
seems unlikely to. 
The Progressive Alliance best indicates 
the pressure felt by established liberal 
groups that their past reforms are not 
enough — especially in the face of grow- 
ing economic crisis. Largely committed 
to Democratic Party channels, their search 
for more radical solutions is nevertheless 
leading them to lend an ear to groups 
like DSOC and NAM. 
Democratic Socialists 
This leads us to the Democratic Socialists, 
who have probably gained more visi- 
bility and influence on the national scene 
than any other left grouping in the late 
70s. Whether advocating “economic 
democracy,” greater corporate “account- 
ability,” or a growing role for “public 
ownership of vital resources,” the demo- 
cratic socialists are united in their commit- 
ment to structural change in government 
and economy through the ballot box and 
legal channels. 
This “‘evolutionary” strategy is most 
commonly associated with the old pre- 
WWI Second International, and indeed 
many democratic socialists look back 
fondly to the days when the Socialist 
Party could pull nearly a million votes in 
“ne 4, 
hinge Me 
Ly WEY JAY KINNEY 
presidential elections, as well as elect 
mayors in 56 cities and towns, including 
Milwaukee, Schenectady, and Flint. 
The democratic socialist vision usually 
sees the future election of socialists on 
both a local and national scale leading to 
the public control of major corporations 
and a greater institution of democracy 
both in government and the workplace. 
Because this vision is predominantly a 
moral one based on the ideal of the expan- 
sion of democracy within existing insti- 
tutions, it is quite possible to be a 
democratic socialist and have no need of 
Marx at all. 
The Democratic Socialist Organizing 
Committee (DSOC) under the leadership 
of Michael Harrington has the goal of 
working through the “‘leftwing” of the 
Democratic Party to try and push it 
towards a socialist position.. DSOC has 
a number of politicians and labor leaders 
as members (Rep. Ron Dellums, Gloria 
Steinem, Machinist Union President 
William Winpisinger) and prides itself on 
dealing with “real possibilities in the real 
world” — an approach which usually boils 
down to trying to influence the writing 
of the Dems’ platform, and stumping for 
liberal Dem. re-election campaigns. 
Exactly who is using whom here is 
unclear, and a more cynical outlook might 
call this all “‘politics as usual.” 
Democratic Left, Michael Harrington, Editor, 
$5/year (10 issues), from Democratic Soc- 
ialist Organizing Committee, 853 Broadway, 
Suite 801, New York, NY 10003 
In These Times, “the independent socialist 
newspaper” has of late increasingly lined 
up with the DSOC strategy. Begun in Fall, 
1977, with James Weinstein as editor and 
a staff heavily drawn from NAM, ITT has 
attempted to be a rhetoric-free source of 
national and world news, as well as a 
forum for discussions among democratic 
socialists. 1979 saw ITT affiliate with the 
Washington, D.C.-based, left-liberal think- 
tank Institute for Policy Studies, as well 
as the appearance of an editorial line 
explicitly dissociating the paper from most 
other left groups and “sects.” Design-wise, 
one of the best weekiles around. 
(Reviewed on p. 389.) 
Hovering in this same area is the Campaign 
for Economic Democracy (CED), the 
organization founded by Tom Hayden and 
Jane Fonda in the wake of Hayden’s un- 
successful run for U.S. Senate. Avoiding 
explicit reference to “socialism” alto- 
gether, the CED prefers the euphemistic 
term “economic democracy,” which 
Hayden juggles with attacks on bigness 
and a hazy defense of small-time capital- 
ism. CED has concentrated its efforts 
in California on local campaigns for things 
like rent control and city council seats, 
CED News (Campaign for Economic 
Democracy Newsletter), Sam Hurst, 
Editor, $15/year (12 issues, includes mem- 
bership), from CED, 409 Santa Monica, 
CA 90401 
Meanwhile, the granddaddy of democratic 
socialism, the Socialist Party, is still sur- 
viving, though barely. Long identified 
with the late Norman Thomas, and then 
with Michael Harrington, the SP has 
suffered a spate of internal disputes and 
defections in recent times. (DSOC is the 
direct descendant of a former SP caucus.) 
Seventy years ago the SP was the major 
voice for socialism in the U.S. — but 
these days it serves mainly as a loose 
umbrella for several local and state 
organizations. 
The People (Newspaper of the Socialist 
Labor Party), $4/year (26 issues, from 
Socialist Labor Party, 914 Industrial Ave., 
Palo Alto, CA 94303 
The New American Movement is posed 
somewhat uneasily with fingers in several 
pies. Proponents of DSOC-style politics 
mix in NAM’s ranks with Euro-communist 
enthusiasts, community organizers and 
academic Marxists. Perhaps better than 
any other group on the Left, NAM has 
maintained an open-ended, multi-caucus 
approach which harks back to the days of 
the 60s’ New Left. NAM calls itself a 
socialist-feminist organization and has 
been active in trying to stress the impor- 
tance of fighting both sexual and class 
oppression simultaneously. 
As its optimistic name suggests, NAM 
believes that only a mass-movement in 
favor of socialism can successfully 
revolutionize the U.S. However for the 
last decade NAM’s membership has 
stabilized at about 600 people, indicating 
that NAM’s unique complexity may also 
be keeping it from achieving mass appeal. 
Whatever its long-range dreams, for now 
NAM remains an organization of activists 
engaged in a variety of local battles. 
Moving On (Monthly Magazine of the New 
American Movement), $5/year (10 issues), 
from New American Research Institute, 
9244 North Clark Street, Chicago IL 60657 
Ranking groups across a right-to-left 
spectrum is tricky at best but as we 
proceed leftward it is pretty safe to say 
that each new group criticizes the ones to 
its right as not going far enough in advo- 
cating social change. (Thus the oft-used 
derogatory term “Reformist.’’) 
Communists 
For the Communists, a socialist society is 
only a transitional stage on the way toa 
classless, stateless, “free” society, not an 
end in itself. Yet to reach even that trans- 
itional stage a revolution must occur, to 
throw out the (please excuse the rhetoric) 
ruling class. And revolutions are not 
voted in — Allende’s Chile being the 
exception that proves the rule. 
Lenin, building on Marx’s theories, devel- 
oped an organizational plan for revolu- 
tionaries which posited a strong centralized 
party to “lead” the revolution. (He also 
developed the analysis of Imperialism 
which sees advanced Capitalist nations 
depending on their exploitation of less- 
developed countries in order to further 
their own growth.) Followers of Lenin’s 
strategy and accompanying theories are 
usually called Marxist-Leninists, though as 
a catch-phrase that label is most often 
claimed by Maoists and Stalinists. (See 
below.) Not all communists are Leninists, 
it should be noted, and the more libertar- 
ian non-Leninists are discussed towards 
the end of this survey. 
The most famous U.S. Leninist party, and 
the one the late J. Edgar Hoover loved to 
hate, is the Communist Party U.S.A. 
(CPUSA). It was originally founded in 
