Mutual Aid 
First published in 1902, this is considered to be 
Kropotkin’s classic. Kropotkin himself was a classic; a 
Russian prince abashed by the arbitrariness of his own 
privilege. After he’d done his stint as a page at the Tsar’s 
court, when the time came for him to choose a regiment, 
he unfashionably headed for Siberia and became an 
explorer. 
His researches led him to a new concept of 
Asia’s geography. 
Publication of his theory would earn 
him international scientific prominence. Another thing 
Kropotkin discovered in Siberia: anarchism — it was there 
he met Madame Bakunin, who introduced him to her 
husband’s ideas. 
After resigning his commission and retiring into scholarly 
penury in St. Petersburg, Kropotkin got into trouble with 
the Tsar for lecturing to gatherings of workers. 
For this 
he was jailed. Two years later a number of friends 
contrived an elaborate plan for a daring daylight escape 
and freed him. His flight took him through Switzerland 
and France (where he was jailed again), and finally to 
London, where he went to work for the magazine Nature. 
In the late eighties the vulgarization of Darwin’s thought 
into social Darwinism began to dismay Kropotkin. After 
having meditated on the evidence at length, he took to 
print to refute Huxley’s image of nature as a “‘continuous 
free fight”; a Hobbesian “war of all against all.”’ In 
Mutual Aid Kropotkin assembled evidence of cooperation 
in all animal societies, including man’s. 
There are descrip- 
tions of animal behavior substantiating the notion that 
the survival of a species is often furthered not by inter- 
necine warfare, but by the banding together of its mem- 
bers for hunting, migration (which he perceived as a 
means of avoiding competition), and sociability. Kropot- 
kin and the observers he quotes were anthropomorphising 
ethologists; their science was so new that it was unaf- 
fected by the quantification fetish; they were willing to 
interpret animal behavior in terms of feeling, even 
tender feeling. 
/f Mutual Aid’s etho/ogical evidence seems quaint by 
todays standards, its re-vision of human history is illum- 
inating, particularly the passages which deal with the 
history of medieval free cities. 
They were utopias, their 
infrastructures were shaped by craftsmen’s ethics — guild 
charters; their citizens worked together in myriad ways to 
support the communes — not merely out of altruism or 
necessity. Decency just happened to be an elegant way of 
achieving homeostasis. 
It took considerable ruthlessness 
on the part of nationstates to subjugate these cities and 
destroy their wholesome autonomy. 
—Stephanie Mills 
Mutual Aid 
(A Factor of Evolution) 
Peter Kropotkin 
1902, 1976; 362 pp. 
$4.50 postpaid from: 
Porter Sargent Publishers 
11 Beacon Street 
Boston, MA 02108 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
The absorption of all social functions by the State neces- 
sarily favoured the development of an unbridled, narrow- 
minded individualism. 
In proportion as the obligations 
towards the State grew in numbers the citizens were 
evidently relieved from their obligations towards 
each other. 
e 
When the parrots start hunting, they display the most 
wonderful intelligence, prudence, and capacity of coping 
with circumstances. Take, for instance, a band of white 
cacadoos in Australia. Before starting to plunder a corn- 
field, they first send out a reconnoitring party which occu- 
pies the highest trees in the vicinity of the field, while 
other scouts perch upon the intermediate trees between 
the field and the forest and transmit the signals. 
If the 
report runs “All right,”’ a score of cacadoos will separate 
from the bulk of the band, take a flight in the air, and 
then fly towards the trees nearest to the field. They also 
will scrutinize the neighbourhood for a long while, and 
only then will they give the signal for general advance, 
after which the whole band starts at once and plunders 
the field in no time. The Australian settlers have the 
greatest difficulties in beguiling the prudence of the 
Parrots; but if man, with all his art and weapons, has 
succeeded in killing some of them, the cacadoos become 
so prudent and watchful that they henceforward baffle 
all strategems. 
HM 
There can be no doubt that it is the practice of life in 
; 
society which enables the parrots to attain that very 
high level of almost human intelligence and almost 
human feelings which we know in them. Their high 
intelligence has induced the best naturalists to describe 
some species, namely the grey parrot, as the ‘‘bird-man.”’ 
Serres 
(0 
Sie 
« 
\e. 
6 
«7e 
8 
(016 
Cie 
(6) 
see 
0 
16 
6 
Biles 
ms 
0 
0:0 
0 
6°06 
6'0' 
ee 
0) 
6 0 
0.6 
a,0 
«6 
The Dispossessed 
Not so many books have changed my mind politically. 
Brave New World did (away with Utopia). Dune did 
(toward a politics of stressed systems). And The Dis- 
possessed has (toward Kropotkin and Mao). 
Ursula K. LeGuin is the daughter of the eminent Berkeley 
anthropologist Alfred Kroeber. 
It shows. 
Her work has a 
textured believability, depth of insight, and complexity of 
character seldom found in science fiction, and which can 
carry her idea far into your life. 
The idea in this book is 
of a two-planet system. 
One is rich and “free” — a kind 
of Ur-America. 
The second is almost a desert, granted to 
_the rebels from the first planet to play out their biological 
metaphor (“The Analogy”) of social mutual-aid against a 
harsh environment. 
The two societies have not communi- 
cated in centuries. Now, in the person of a remarkable 
physicist, they reconverge. 
LeGuin’s skill as a storyteller 
is to progressively buffet the reader’s opinion as to where 
the goods and evils are in these diametric systems. 
Sim- 
plistic she is never. 
As in Dune, Lord of the Rings, or The Once and Future 
King, one wants to /ive in her world. 
—SB 
The Dispossessed 
Ursula K. LeGuin 
1974; 311 pp. 
$2.50 Postpaid from: 
Avon Books 
Mail Order Department 
250 West 55th Street 
New York, NY 10019 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
“Excess is excrement,’’ Odo wrote in the Analogy. 
“Excrement retained in the body is a poison." 
e 
Some way before him, down the darkening path, a person 
sat reading on a stone bench. 
Shevek went forward slowly. He came to the bench and 
stood looking at the figure who sat with head bowed over 
the book in the green-gold dusk under the trees. 
It was a 
woman of fifty or sixty, strangely dressed, her hair pulled 
POLITICAL MODELS 
POLITICS 
379 
back ina knot. 
Her left hand on her chin nearly hid the 
stern mouth, her right held the papers on her knee. They 
were heavy, those papers; the cold hand on them was heavy 
The light was dying fast but she never looked up. She 
went on reading the proof sheets of The Socia/ Organism. 
Shevek looked at Odo for a while, and then he sat down 
on the bench beside her. 
He had no concept of status at all, and there was plenty 
of room on the bench. 
He was moved by a pure impulse 
of companionship. 
He looked at the strong, sad profile, and at the hands, an 
old woman's hands. He looked up into the shadowy 
branches. 
For the first time in his life he comprehended 
that Odo, whose face he had known since his infancy, 
whose ideas were central and abiding in his mind and the 
mind of everyone he knew, that Odo had never set foot 
on Anarres: 
that she had lived, and died, and was buried, 
in the shadow of green-leaved trees, in unimaginable 
cities, among people speaking unknown languages, on 
another world. Odo was an alien: an exile. 
The young man sat beside the statue in the twilight, one 
almost as quiet as the other. 
e 
We have nothing but our freedom. We have nothing to 
give you but your own freedom. We have no law but the 
single principle of mutual aid between individuals. We 
have no government but the single principle of free 
association. We have no states, no nations, no presidents, 
no premiers, no chiefs, no generals, no bosses, no bankers, 
no landlords, no wages, no charity, no police, no soldiers, 
no wars. Nor do we have much else. We are sharers, not 
owners. We are not prosperous. None of us is rich. None 
of us is powerful. 
If it is Anarres you want, if it is the 
future you seek, then | tell you that you must come to it 
with empty hands. You must come to it alone, and 
naked, as the child comes into the world, into his future, 
without any past, without any property, wholly depen- 
dent on other people for his life. 
e 
There were no rules of parliamentary procedure at 
meetings in PDC. 
Interruptions were sometimes more 
frequent than statements. The process, compared to a 
well-managed executive conference, was a slab of raw 
beef compared to a wiring diagram. Raw beef, however, 
functions better than a wiring diagram would, in its place 
— inside a living animal. 
e 
The sunlights differ, but there is only one darkness. 
a 
As to their mutual attachment it is known that when a 
parrot has been killed by a hunter, the others fly over the 
corpse of their comrade with shrieks of complaints and 
“themselves fall the victims of their friendship,”’ as 
Audubon said; and when two captive parrots, though 
belonging to different species, have contracted mutual 
friendship, the accidental death of one of the two friends 
has sometimes been followed by the death from grief 
and sorrow of the other friend. 
It is no less evident that 
in their societies they find infinitely more protection of 
beak and claw. Very few birds of prey or mammals dare 
attack any but the smaller species of parrots, and Brehm 
is absolutely right in saying of the parrots, as he also says 
of the cranes and the sociable monkeys, that they hardly 
have any enemies besides men; and he adds: ‘‘It is most 
probable that the larger parrots succumb chiefly to old 
age rather than die from the claws of any enemies.” 
e 
Under the present social system, all bonds of union 
among the inhabitants of the same street or neighbour- 
hood have been dissolved. 
In the richer parts of the 
large towns, people live without knowing who are their 
next-door neighbours. 
But in the crowded lanes people 
know each other perfectly, and are continually brought 
into mutual contact. 
Of course, petty quarrels go their 
course, in the lanes as elsewhere; but groupings in 
accordance with personal affinities grow up, and within 
their circle mutual aid is practised to an extent of which 
the richer classes have no idea. 
ce eee 
eee er? Eee eee 
ee 
ee 
ee ee 
ele eA Ree. 
pi ee (eye «6.8 
ie «ss 
oS 
© 
6 es we 
ooets oe 
@ 
a 
ous 
THE RISING SUN 
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWSLETTER 
Her problem was she was translucent (more some- 
times than others, more noticeable to herself than 
others) and when, for example, she held her hand 
up to shield her eyes from the sun and the sun 
shone through a little, she found it to be an incon- 
venience as well asa 
star in the middle of her hand. 
Some things passing through left traces, such as 
the nearly new moon on the sticking out bone of 
her left wrist months after she’d pointed at it and 
the cow’s nose she’d petted one summer’s after- 
noon and glimpsed faintly on the back of her 
hand on yearly anniversaries of whatever day it 
was. There was also an owl she’d stared at for 
hours one moonlit night staring out of the back of 
her head but it was only seen by the guy who cut 
her hair who took it as a sign to take less drugs and 
move to Oregon (but he was probably going to 
move to Oregon anyway) and a couple of lovers 
(who were probably going to stop being lovers 
anyway). Everyone’s skin looked so cold and 
clammy through hers, except on some sunny 
beaches, that she tended to send all lovers away 
until sooner or later she met someone opal- 
escent which was better — faint rainbows showing 
through her knuckles made touching more fun — 
but also disconcerting because when their whole 
bodies touched at the same time it turned out 
they matched, every other molecule, and they fell 
right through each other. “Maybe if I 
wore panty- 
hose and sold real estate these things wouldn’t 
happen to me,” she thought, but it was too late 
for that, and she and her lover learned to do con- 
trolled falls and stop in the middle of each other 
to let some molecules change bodies if they were 
bored, and pretty soon both of them were both 
translucent and opalescent and found each other’s 
bodies about the best thing to look at the world 
through — hidden spectrums found, beauty of 
shapes revealed through simplification, the funny 
fuzzy texture of human skin over it all. They still 
used their naked eyes some for old times sake and 
contrast but one time when they were watching 
the sunset through each other 
they disappeared. 
