: 
4 
ee 
BEE 
Ss 
a SS 
2 
acer 
MMUNITY 
SMALL BUSINESS 
SOP CTL 
a 
a se eee SE TH 
eS 
The Effective Executive 
Wherever there’s a bunch of people doing something, 
somebody is bearing executive relation to the group, 
usually badly, therefore unhappily for everyone, and 
nothing much is going on besides frustration. But some 
leaders are good, and with them a lot happens and every- 
body feels good. 
This book takes a deep look into how 
“good” executives behave in common. The generalizations 
that emerge are useful to anybody with responsibility, 
from the honcho of a commune to the goddam Pope. 
The Effective 
Executive 
Peter F. Drucker 
1966; 178 pp. 
$1 0.95 postpaid from: 
Harper & Row 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
1. Effective executives know where their time goes. 
They work systematically at managing the little of their 
time that can be brought under their control. 
2. Effective executives focus on outward contribution. 
They gear their efforts to results rather than to work. 
They start out with the question, ‘What results are ex- 
pected of me?” rather than with the work to be done, 
let alone with its techniques and tools. 
3. Effective executives build on strengths — their own 
strengths, the strengths of their superiors, colleagues, and 
subordinates; and on the strengths in the situation, that 
is, on what they can do. They do not build on weakness. 
They do not start out with the things they cannot do. 
4. Effective executives concentrate on the few major 
areas where superior performance will produce out- 
standing results. They force themselves to set priorities 
and stay with their priority decisions. They know that 
they have no choice but to do first things first — 
and second things not at all. The alternative is to 
get nothing done. 
5. Effective executives, finally, make effective decisions. 
They know that this is, above all, a matter of system — of 
the right steps in the right sequence. They know that an 
effective decision is always a judgment based on “‘dis- 
senting opinions” rather than on ‘‘consensus on the 
facts." And they know that to make many decisions 
fast means to make the wrong decisions. What is needed 
are few, but fundamental, decisions. What is needed is 
the right strategy rather than razzle-dazzle tactics. 
These are the elements of executive effectiveness — and 
these are the subjects of this book. 
e 
The definition of a ‘‘routine”’ is that it makes unskilled 
people without judgment capable of doing what it took 
near-genius to do before; for a routine puts down in 
systematic, step-by-step form what a very able man 
learned in surmounting yesterday's crisis. 
We know very little about self-development. But we do 
know one thing: People in general, and knowledge 
workers in particular, grow according to the demands 
they make on themselves. They grow according to what 
they consider to be achievement and attainment. 
If they 
demand little of themselves, they will remain stunted. 
lf they demand a good deal of themselves, they will grow 
to giant stature — without any more effort than is ex- 
pended by the nonachievers. 
e 
To tolerate diversity, relationships must be task-focused 
rather than personality-focused. Achievement must be 
measured against objective criteria of contribution and 
performance. This is possible, however, only if jobs 
are defined and structured impersonally. Otherwise the 
accent will be on ‘Who is right?”’ rather than on ‘What 
is right?’’ 
In no time, personnel decisions will be made on 
“Do | like this fellow?” or ‘Will he be acceptable?”’ rather 
than by asking “‘Is he the man most likely to do an 
outstanding job?” 
e 
There is serious need for a new principle of effective 
administration under which every act, every agency, and 
every program of government is conceived as temporary 
and as expiring automatically after a fixed number of 
years — maybe ten — unless specifically prolonged by new 
legislation following careful outside study of the program, 
its results and its contributions. 
a 
a 
NS 
The Briarpatch Book 
| Why S.O.B.’s Succeed and Nice Guys Fail in a Small Business 
What really happened to the ‘60s generation? We nearly 
all got into small business. Businessmen were the first 
non-stoned Americans to accept us, and many 
of us 
entrepreneured in the dope black market. Smal/ wonder 
that we evolved our own version of the admirable smallI- 
business ethic. 
Its expression came to greatest clarity 
in the Briarpatch — a loose association of San Francisco 
Bay Area new-age businesses. 
The name and practice of the Briarpatch has become 
famous but hard to find and examine. Here it is, 
declared and exampled. Michael Phillips, whose opinions 
pepper the adjoining pages, was and is in the thick of it. 
(See his “Four Illusions of Money,” p. 288.) 
—SB 
The Briarpatch Book 
(Experiences in Right 
Livelihood and 
Simple Living) 
Briarpatch Community 
1978; 313 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
New Glide Publications 
330 Ellis Street 
San Francisco, CA 94102 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
The Briarpatch is a network of small-business people who 
have three values in common: we are in business because 
we love it; we find our reward in serving people rather 
than in amassing large sums of money; and we share our 
resources with each other as much as we can, especially 
our knowledge of business. We share management and 
marketing information, legal and technical know-how, 
names of suppliers, and what general practices work and 
do not work. We are committed to keeping our books 
and financial records open. Our customers, employees, 
friends, and relatives know how much we earn, how much 
our supplies cost, and anything else they want to know 
about the financial workings of our businesses. 
We share naturally because we love what we are doing, 
and we are open because our practices are honest. 
If you 
share these values, then you, too, are a Briar. 
e 
There are only two ways to search out a storefront: ask 
other shopkeepers in the area you like (realty companies 
also if you come across any); and locate dimly lit, painted 
over, or unused-looking stores. 
The name of the owner or landlord will never be posted 
on such stores. So how do you find out whom to 
contact? 
First, call the Public Library and ask to speak 
to the office that has the ‘City Directory.” This book is 
the opposite of the phone book — it has street addresses 
(from 1 Broadway to 3001 Broadway, for example) 
listed first, followed by people and phone numbers. So 
if you know the address, you can call the number at that 
address. 
If there is no listing for that address in the City 
Directory, don’t give up — there’s another approach: call 
the Assessor’s Office at City Hall and ask for the owner's 
name and number listed in the ‘Realty Index.’’ This 
book is organized the same way as the City Directory 
except that it has names of owners, not renters. 
So many 
people of good heart start a small business only 
to have it fail miserably. 
Most of the failures | have 
known and/or been a party to would have had a /ot better 
chance of making it if this unscrupulous book had been 
handy. Oh, there’s nothing here that is against the law, 
but the fine line is certainly approached. All of the advice 
comes under the heading of “sound business practice’ 
but it is definitely aggressive stuff, and many will find it 
offensive in every way. On the other hand most of what 
is presented is normal business procedure for large corp- 
orations, which are the enemy. 
(The customer is not 
considered the enemy, it isn’t that kind of unscrupulous.) 
/f you are struggling along with a smal! business or are 
about to, a look here might prove mighty useful. 
—J. Baldwin 
Personally | find the tone and much of the advice of this 
book odious and its premise incorrect. (Of 300 Briarpatch 
businesses dedicated to “right livelihood” only two have 
gone out of business, says Mike Phillips.) Nevertheless a 
Jot of the realities of small business depicted here may be 
found in no other book, but keep a firm grip on your 
conscience while reading. 
Additional comments: Michael Phillips, “Follow the 
advice and go to jail.“’ Paul Hawken, “People | know 
starting in business use this book to discover the 
real as opposed to ostensible practices of business — 
they’re fully capable of sorting out the morality 
for themselves.”’ 
Why S.O.B.’s Succed 
and Nice Guys Fail 
in a Small Business 
Financial Management 
Associates, Inc. 
1976; 374 pp. 
$22.81 postpaid from: 
Financial Management 
Associates, Inc. 
3824 East Indian 
School Road 
Phoenix, AZ 85018 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
e 
For the “grunt” jobs, those semi-skilled and low-level 
positions in your organization, one of the best sources of 
potential employees is from your own employees. 
Almost all of them probably know people who would 
make better than average employees, and by simply 
letting them know what you are looking for, you can get 
a great number of people to interview at no expense 
to yourself. 
You should not, however, use this source too often for 
judgment jobs. Here you could get into a problem with 
the perception of your employees as to what a job 
requires. For judgment or management position jobs, you 
need to deal at arms’ length with everyone. You don't 
want to risk upsetting or irritating your employee by 
turning down the individual who they consider perfectly 
suited for the job, and who have gone out and shot 
their mouth off by telling this individual that they can 
get him this particular job because they have great 
influence with you. 
e 
The one person who can rate lawyers from the standpoint 
of ability and responsibility is a judge. When a judge is 
your confidant and your friend, he will give the names of 
lawyers for particular situations who can do the job for 
you. They'll even pick up the phone and call them and 
make an appointment for you assuring you of red carpet 
treatment when you arrive at the office. 
Many times a judge can give you legal advice that would 
cost you several hundred dollars to get from a lawyer, 
just talking to him over cocktails. 
Up the Organization 
This book has an amazing amount of truth, some of it 
pretty radical truth, about how to run an enterprise. 
Up the Organization 
Robert Townsend 
1970; 202 pp. 
$2.85 postpaid from: 
Fawcett Books 
Columbia Book Service 
32275 Malley Road 
P.O. Box FB 
Madison Heights, 
MI 48071 
or Whole Earth 
Household Store 
° 
A lesson very few have learned: 
If you want to approach 
the head of XYZ Corporation, call him cold. Tell him 
who you are and why you want to talk to him. A direct 
and uncomplicated relationship will follow. 
The common mistake is to look for a mutual friend — or 
a friend's friend on his board, in his bank or investment 
bank or law firm — to introduce you. This starts all sorts 
of side vibrations and usually results in a half-assed pro- 
logue by the intermediary, who is apt to grind both edges 
of his own ax. 
e 
All decisions should be made as low as possible in 
the organization. 
The Charge of the Light Brigade 
was ordered by an officer who wasn’t there looking 
at the territory. 
There are two kinds of decisions: those that are ex- 
pensive to change and those that are not. 
e 
If you can’t do it excellently, don’t do it at all. 
Because if it’s not excellent it won’t be profitable or fun, 
and if you’re not in business for fun or profit, what the 
hell are you doing here? 
e 
Admit your own mistakes openly, maybe even joyfully. 
Encourage your associates to do likewise by commiser- 
ating with them. Never castigate. Babies learn to walk 
by falling down. 
If you beat a baby every time he falls 
down, he'll never care much for walking. 
° 
To keep an organization young and fit, don’t hire anyone 
until everybody's so overworked they'll be glad to see 
the newcomer no matter where he sits. 
