more 
TOOLS PROM MY CHEST 
BURROUGHS > 
| used to say that | thought Burroughs was the only 
writer that had really done anything new with writing since 
Shakespeare. 
|! don’t say it so much anymore but | still 
think 
it’s true. 
Here’s a sample from NOVA. EXPRESS: 
PRISONERS, COME OUT 
“Don’t LISTEN to Hassan i Sabbah,” they will tell you. 
“He wants to take your body and all pleasures of the 
body away from you. Listen to us. We are serving The 
Garden of Delights Immortality Cosmic Consciousness 
The Best Ever In Drug Kicks. And love love love in 
slop buckets. How does that sound to you boys? Better 
than Hassan i Sabbah and his cold windy bodiless rock? 
Right?” 
At the immediate risk of finding myself the most un- 
popular character of all fiction—and history is fiction— 
I must say this: 
“Bring together state of news—Inquire onward from 
state to doer—Who monopolized Immortality? Who 
monopolized Cosmic Consciousness? Who monopolized 
Love Sex and Dream? Who monopolized Life Time and 
Fortune? Who took from you what is yours? Now they 
will give it all back? Did they ever give anything away 
for nothing? Did they ever give any more than they 
had to give? Did they not always take back what they 
gave when possible and it always was? Listen: Their 
BRAUTIGAN 
Kesey says I’ve got fifteen minutes to read and 
review Brautigan’s newest novel 
(THE ABORTION: 
AN HISTORICAL ROMANCE 1966) before the presses 
roll. Ok: 
it looks to me like a melancholy little book, 
luminous and sad and droll and serious, bittersweet 
74 
the so called bate 2 
sections of ae 
and Soft Machine—Their Immortality Cosm 
—It is a man-eating trap that ends in green par 
Throw back their ersatz Immortality—It will fall apart 
% 
before you can get out of The Big Store—Flush their 
drug kicks down the drain—They are poisoning and — 
monopolizing the hallucinogen drugs—learn to make it 
without any chemical corn—All that they offer is a 
screen to cover retreat from the colony they have. sO 
disgracefully mismanaged. To cover travel arrange- 
ments so they will never have to pay the constituents _ 
they have betrayed and sold out. Once these arrange- 
ments are complete they will blow the place up behind 
_—_— 
them. 
| 
Throw back their ersatz Immortality—It will fall apart 
before you can get out of The Big Store—Flush their 
drug kicks down the drain—They are poisoning and 
monopolizing the hallucinogen drugs—learn to make it 
without any chemical corn—All that they offer is a 
screen to cover retreat from the colony they have so 
disgracefully mismanaged. To cover travel arrange- 
ments so they will never have to pay the constituents 
they have betrayed and sold out. Once these arrange- 
a are complete they will blow the place up behind 
em. 
“And what does my program of total austerity and 
total resistance offer you? I offer you nothing. I am not 
a politician. These are conditions of total emergency. 
And these are my instructions for total emergency if 
carried out now could avert the total disaster now on 
tracks: 
“Peoples of the earth, you have all been venoned 
Convert all available stocks of morphine to apomor- 
phine. Chemists, work round the clock on variation and 
synthesis of the apomorphine formulae. Apomorphine 
is the only agent that can disintoxicate you and cut the 
enemy beam off your line. Apomorphine and silence. I 
order total resistance directed against this conspiracy 
to pay off peoples of the earth in ersatz bullshit. I order 
total resistance directed against The Nova Conspiracy 
and all those engaged in it. 
“The purpose of my writing is to expose and arrest 
Nova Criminals. In Naked Lunch, Soft Machine and 
Nova Express I show who they are and what they are 
doing and what they will do if they are not arrested. 
Minutes to go. Souls rotten from their orgasm drugs, 
flesh shuddering from their nova ovens, prisoners of the 
earth to come out. With your help we can occupy The 
— 
Reality Studio and retake their universe of Fear Death — 
and Monepoly—= 
“(Signed ) Inspecror 
J. LEE, Nova Pouce” - 
as. only Brautigan can be and make:you love him for Se 
it. As near as | can tell, this novel is exactly what... 
1 think I’m gonna like it. ANG i ccsess sagt 
its title says it is. 
| think you will too. 
— Ed McClanahan 
