by 
/ 
Lorenzo W. Milam 
KTAO, Los Gatos, Calif. 
Broadcasters aren’t about to tell you how you can 
scare them, or about how you can demand (and get) time 
_ to express your own views on their radio or television sta- 
tion. They aren't about to tell you how you can start your 
own broadcast operation; and they aren't about to give you 
any insight into the enormous profits they make by turning 
the American aether into a whore. 
They won't tell you that--and Broadcasting Magazine 
=the madam of the whole whoring industry isn’t about to 
tell you either; for Broadcasting militantly protects the fine 
19th Century robber baron tradition of the radio and tele- 
vision peoples: 
their (apparently) god-given right to enrich 
themselves forever, at the-expense of those who care for 
the art of transmission. 
The transmission of generations, 
and generations of ideas. 
The art of carrying your idea 
from here to there--without having to pay the freight im- 
posed by the pirates called professional broadcasters. 
For you and | tend to forget (of course we forget-- 
because none of those whores will tell us) that the aether 
is free. The act of transmission (spark runs coming out of 
the minds of those who love words and musics) is as free 
as the cost of erecting the few instruments necessary to 
turn this room 
into a universal room: 
with one micro- 
phone, and a turntable, and a few records, this room's 
magic sounds can be transmitted as far as you and | can 
see; and, if we are right and wise in choosing our equipment 
--it can go around the world. 
Lee deForrest, and Sr. Marconi, and Maj. Armstrong. 
Maj. Armstrong! Sometime get one of the old men of radio 
to tell you how the wretch Sarnoff took crazy Maj. Arm- 
strong for a ride, took all his patents (and his girl, too!) 
Sometime see if you can find how the early history of 
tadio is littered with the bodies of the make-a-buck artists 
screwing the inventors--and those who hoped for some 
chance to use broadcasting for the beauty of words, and 
the thousand thousand voices of the poor, and scared, and 
~ 
hungry. 
Ask an old radio man about how that didn’t 
happen! 
Or, really--if you care for us now, and the present: 
listen to me as | tell you the how-to-do-it; that brief chance 
for you to gum up (and maybe improve) your local neigh- 
borhood broadcaster-telecaster--with his gross monopoly of 
the spectrum. 
For the motives (if not the actions) of the 
U. S. Government are often benign and caring--if the real- 
ity is not; and there are contained in the rules of the FCC a 
few dibs and dabs for those who want to try to do some- 
thing with the spectrum. 
Listen. 
FAIRNESS DOCTRINE 
You are listening to station KGOD--your friendly 
local purveyor of the Truths of Jesus. 
And as you listen, 
you hear (for the 900th time) some dildo talking about The 
Communist Menace, and Long Haired Gooks, and the Veet 
Nam War (as if it were the last and greatest in our present 
series of wars). And you think: 
if | could only do some- 
thing to that goddamn station. And You’re right: you can. 
Much better than turning it off. 
Because under the Fairness Doctrine of the FCC you 
t ing Your ve Ever Wanted to 
onen About Radio and Television 
. (Which Your Friendly Local Broadcaster Would NEVER. Tell You. . ‘ 
' few days. 
Vy 
} 
as an individual (or as a representative of some group): can 
ask for and get time to reply to controversial views pre- 
sented on any broadcast or television station in the United 
States. 
The Fairness Doctrine was conceived by good and 
thoughtful men who believed that since broadcasters in this 
country enjoy a quasi-monopoly (through the scarceness of 
the frequencies)--they should be required to give time to 
those who disagreed with some pertinent view of current 
social, political, or economic commentary. 
; 
Now as | say, The Fairness Doctrine is a-good device 
where you can get from your local right-wing radio station 
(or your local left-wing radio station, if your tastes happen 
to run that way) time for free in order to present your 
views on some subject. 
You are listening to KGOD and Rev. Smartz starts 
talking about how local schools are teaching anti-god, pro- 
Maoist propaganda. 
Now you know that is a blatant false- 
hood. 
So you write a letter to the owner of KGOD, and 
you ask for equa/ time: 
that will show your ‘ignorance. 
Equal time applies only to political races.) 
Keep a copy of your letter to KGOD. 
Wait for a 
If nothing happens, call up and ask about wie s 
happening to your request. 
Please believe me: 
KGOD’s owner will do everything 
possible to keep you from getting that time. 
He sees you 
as an enormous threat; and he’s right. 
You are: 
If you, 
know what you are doing. 
Just remember that in contro- 
versies of this nature, the FCC, more likely than not, will 
stand behind you. 
The owner of KGOD will tell you that he does not 
have to give time to reply to Rev. Smartz. 
He is wrong. 
Even if the reverend is paying for his time, he must give 
time to you--if your request is bona fide, and if you say 
that you or your group cannot afford to pay. 
O God: 
He'll lie and he'll rant and he'll rave. 
He'll 
tell you that he is not required to help you, that you are 
a fool, that the FCC will never back you. Keep right.6n a- 
pushin’. 
Tell him that you know that the Fairness Doc- 
trine allows contrary viewpoints 
to be heard. 
Allows, 
hell: 
requires. 
And 
if he still refuses--start writing to 
the FCC 
(%William 
B. Ray,. Office of Complaints. and 
Compliance, Federal Communications Commission, Wash- 
ington, D. C. 
20554). 
Write at great length. 
Write sensibly, state your posi- 
tion; write as a reasonable, concerned citizen--just asking 
for your chance to be heard. 
Send carbons to the radio 
station. 
Keep on pushing. 
Don’t give up. 
When things 
get scary, call me. 
I'll tell you what to do. 
If | know. 
Because, see: 
there are almost 10,000 broadcast and 
television stations in*this country. 
And each of them. is 
treated individually at renewal time. They have to conform 
to certain requirements of the FCC. 
And if they don’t-- 
their license renewal gets held up. And universally, broad- 
casters hate it, loathe it, turn green and pale--whenever any- 
one threatens their license renewal. 
It’s their license to 
milk the golden goose the aether--remember? 
PUBLIC FILE 
This one really freaks broadcasters. 
You can give 
them a few sleepless nights--and get a potful of information 
for yourself. 
It’s called the Public File ploy. 
435 
