Br ertve futures. 
The futures festival will be a Woodstock with brains 
and point to it. 
If the plan succeeds, the media will 
report it all over the world and multiply its impact. 
Of course, anything on so large a scale has to be planned 
responsibly to make sure no one is hurt or unfairly in- 
convenienced. 
But that can be done. 
If this futures 
festival comes off, it will be a positively historic event-- 
that is, if a future-oriented future event can be said’ to 
be historic. 
They need all the help they can get. 
The humanization of technology, the guidance of 
human evolution itself, cannot begin until the human race 
develops a new sense of time, a new future consciousness. 
We are at the earliest stages of this development. 
The 
futures festival is just one sign of this new, vast shift of 
consciousness. 
By encouraging this new view of time, 
we help minimize the risk of future shock as well. 
And 
that is a precondition for survival. 
90 
\ 
by 
\ 
Mason Dixon. 
“There is no escape--either into rural communes 
or — 
existential mysticism--from this dynamic of world confront 
ation.’ 
is 
--Tom Hayden in Ramparts 
I’ve heard it all before, and Hayden’s language is typical-- 
— 
communes are escapist, a political cop-out. 
As one friend 
succe put it when | told him | was moving to B. C.: 
“What you are doing is a purely private act without inter- 
esting social consequences.”’ 
After a year-and-a-half in the bush, Mr. Biskiesi 5 et al., 
| beg to disagree. 
2 
To be sure communes are escapist in the sense that its — 
participants are escaping a polluted and pathological urban. 
i 
environment. 
But it is my thesis that a return to the land 
does not necessarily mean turning our backs on the’North 
American political landscape. 
Rural communes do and will 
have a role in proto- and post-revolutionary North America. 
© 
In the first place, someone is going to have to feed 
the cities now and in the future. And the quality of food is 
an important factor in the quality of life overall. 
By next 
— 
summer we hope to be able to ship free vegetables to Van- 
couver to be distributed by the VLF or YIPPIE! 
Good 
spuds are not as spectacular as Molotov cocktails, perieps f 
but one does what one can. 
Second, a hefty percentage of North America’s pop 
ulation still remains in rural areas where reaction to any 
| 
sort of revolution is most severe. 
(As an old Nebraska boy 
| know whereof | speak.) 
It is more difficult to categor- 
ically censor hippies if you have to relate to them every day 
at the store, pub, or gas station, than if you merely read 
about their antics in Life or the Province. 
So, if heads on the land are responsible to ihaves en-— 
vironment and its inhabitants (and not all of them are), then 
potential Opponents 
at the barricades may have second 
thoughts. 
Thirdly, heads in the back country can and should be 
organizing their areas. 
In our valley, for instance, B. C. 
Hydro planned to spray 2,4-D along its tower right-of-way. 
But someone axed their defoliant stockpiles one night, and 
several days later when they tried to bring more in, several 
ranchers met the Hydro choppers with shotguns, and re- 
fused to allow storage of the stuff on their land. 
: 
We seized upon this natural issue and printed a pro- 
test letter which we distributed up and down the valley, 
pointing out that the spraying demonstrated ecological i 
ir- 
responsibility, and was intended to get more profits to 
Hydro stockholders, at the expense of whoever happened. 
to live among the transmission lines. Hydro finally dropped 
the spraying idea in our vicinity, grumbling about oe 5 
many angry farmers.” 
Keep in mind, too, that most rural inhabitants seem 
to have a streak of stubborn individuality and dislike of re- 
straint that rivals our own. 
(After all, | was a Goldwater 
supporter in '64 for much the same reason.) | 
: 
But | know the mental set that Hayden is talking 
about--the beautiful dream of moving into the promised 
land with a few beautiful people, chanting “OM” over the 
= 
sabe 
8, 
