thers start to trespass on his land. Soon she found 
: 
, Ojo and Kunle, with whom she enjoyed herself 
alternatively. Ojo and Kunle were very jealous of each other 
and they hated each other. But Folake dominated them both, 
because she threatened to reveal their secret to their wives. 
Now one day Folake was playing with Kunle and they were 
going to forget the world together, when they suddenly heard 
the voice of the husband who had returned unexpectedly from 
a trip. Folake quickly told Kunle to hide in a large pot. The 
husband entered and thought that Folake was excited because he 
_ had returned. As he started to sit down to a meal of pounded 
yam Ojo suddenly entered. But Folake’s mind was quicker than 
a hawk pouncing on a chicken, and before the husband could 
_ grow suspicious she immediately told Ojo: “This is the pot 
| you have come to collect. Please give my greetings to my mother.’ 
_ Now stupidity is no crime, but it calls for punishment likewise. 
| 
The husband, whose mind was slower than a tortoise walking 
uphill, went and helped Ojo to put the pot on his head. 
As Ojo was going along the road, he was about to release 
-Kunle at some lonely place, where people would not see them. 
But then he began to reason with himself: If the antelope walks 
into the lion’s den, will it not expect to be eaten? Shall I 
be forced to share Folake with this useless fellow forever? So 
he quickly went towards Kunle’s house. When Kunle noticed 
_ what was happening he said from the pot: ‘Ojo, have we not 
been brothers in love all this time? Shall we not now be brothers 
in escape also?” But Ojo said: ‘Do you want me to be like a wife 
who waits for her turn to cook for her husband?” and before 
Kunle knew what was happening, Ojo had already placed the pot 
_ 
in Kunle’s house and he said to the wife: ‘I deliver greetings 
| from your good friend Folake and she is sending you this pot 
| 
as a present.’ With those words he quickly left. When Kunle 
was discovered by his wife, she threw the hat amala which she 
| 
was cooking in his face and she tore his shirt and screamed 
and called in the neighbours. Kunle was blamed by all, and above 
all he was ashamed to go and see Folake, because he looked 
ridiculous with the skin peeling off his face. 
For a while, then, Ojo enjoyed himself alone with Folake, 
whose husband was still in ignorance. Anybody who looks down 
will surely see his nose. But what can you do when a fellow 
insists On staring at the sky all the time? 
~ 
In the end Kunle’s face was healed and he went back to 
Folake. 
Now Folake was glad because she could not be satisfied 
with only one lover. Before Kunle could even say: ‘I greet you 
for the other day —she was already taking off her wrapper. 
Suddenly the voice of her husband was heard. Folake being 
already naked, quickly jumped into a large pot and left Kunle to 
explain himself. 
Kunle greeted the husband politely and said: “I saw your wife 
on the market and bought this pot from her and she asked me 
to come and collect it.’ So the husband helped Kunle to put the 
pot on his head. Now as Kunle was walking along he was think- 
ing of the best way to release Folake. But then he began to 
think: “Why did Folake try to save herself while she.left me 
to face danger?’ And he decided to punish her. So he directed 
his steps towards Ojo’s house and he met Ojo together with 
his wife. And he put down the pot and said: ‘Folake’s husband 
| 
has asked me to send you this present.’ And he quickly left 
before the naked woman was discovered in the pot. Then there 
was fighting and screaming as if fifty cocks were quarrelling over 
the same chicken. At first the women beat and scratched each 
tae then fi fell on is 6. who looked like an owl after rain 
before the neighbours saved him. 
In this way Kunle got his revenge, but he also lost Folake. 
Because the husband was like the man who is looking for his 
trousers and discovers that he is wearing them. As he was wise 
at last, he made sure that his wife was carefully watched. 
Thus Ojo was like the man who shits on the road, and finds 
flies on his return. But Kunle was like the palmwine tapper, who 
cuts his rope in order to punish the palmtree. 
A BRIEF EXEGE 
SIS OF CERTAIN 
SOCIO=PHILOSO 
PHICAL THEME 
S IN ROBERT HU 
NTER'S LYRICST 
0 “NEW SPEED 
WAY BOOGIE!” 
by 
ED McCLANAHAN 
The Grateful Dead were deeply involved in planning 
the Rolling Stones’ disastrous Altamont concert--they it 
was, according to most sources, who suggested that the 
Hell’s Angels be employed to police the area around the 
stage--, and Robert 
Hunter's 
lyrics to ‘New Speedway 
Boogie’’ 
may 
properly 
be regarded 
as 
their “official” 
public statement about the meaning of the grisly events 
of that unhappy day. 
2 
