During regular business hours, every radio and TV 
station in the U.S. is required to keep available to the pub- 
lic a “‘Local Public File.’ 
This is material which describes 
in detail most representation and correspondence that the 
station has had with the FCC. 
What is neat about the Public File is all the infor- 
mation that it gives you about who owns the station, and 
how much they paid for it (if they bought it) and what 
they have promised to the FCC in the way of programming 
of public affairs and educational programming. 
And _ it 
drives most broadcasters looney to have someone show up 
at the door and ask for the Public File. 
Once again--believe me--they’Il lie. O God, they’Il lie. 
You ask for the Public File, and they'll say, ‘It’s confiden- 
tial.” 
Or, “It’s with our lawyers in Washington.” 
Or, 
“The secretary 
isn’t in today--she’s sick.’ 
Or, “Who are 
you, anyway?”’ 
Remember: 
any member of the public can look at 
this file during regular business hours. 
And you do not 
have to identify yourself. 
And if you ask, and they give 
you the brush-off, or fabricate some sort of lie to keep you 
from 
looking at it, then you can complain loudly and 
with telling effect, to the FCC. 
BROADCAST SCHOOLS AS A 
WAY TO GET INTO RADIO-TV 
Forget it. Most broadcast schools are devilish shucks 
-designed to lift $500 or $900 from you and your des- 
perate need to communicate. 
All they will do is turn you 
into a plastic person with a plastic voice and plastic ideas 
about broadcasting. 
If you really want to get into putting your ideas and 
music out on the air, start hanging around some station ina 
small town. Offer to do things for free. Don’t ask for a job 
unless your father knows the owner: 
each station in this 
country gets betewen 5 and 500 applications a week (mail, 
visit, telephone) asking for a job. 
Hang around. 
Get to know some of the other em- 
ployees. 
Be obnoxious, but quietly and efficiently so. Be- 
come useful. 
Most stations have 24 hours a day to fill. 
And there will come a time when they want you to go on 
the air. Unless they hate you for being so obnoxious. 
SCHOOL AND COLLEGE STATIONS 
Most schools and colleges have a broadcast station-- 
either closed circuit or low power. 
That is a nice place to 
begin, to get the feel for talking at the cold mesh of a 
microphone, putting on a record you really like, or even 
_ doing some production work. But there are limitations. 
For, most powerful radio-TV stations belonging to 
schools or colleges fall into the sickening hands of the 
bureaucracy 
in ‘communications’ 
or ‘journalism.’ 
And 
those fuckers are programmed to keep you from putting 
life out on the air. 
Their business is to keep the school 
facility from being controversial, or alive, or meaningful. 
There are rare exceptions--but most of them run a machine 
as bad as: the shuck broadcast schools--but they pretend 
they are purveyors of free information and ‘culture.’ 
Except for most of them, ‘culture’ is playing one of 
those nurdy ‘documentaries’ ground out by the National 
Association 
of Educational 
Broadcasters or the 8,000th 
playing of Beethoven’s 7th Symphony. 
The real stuff of 
real life? 
Hell, they have to worry about the Regents, 
their jobs, retirement. 
Bureaucracy is your enemy if you 
think 
or 
feel--and 
‘communications’ 
bureaucracies 
are 
champion deadwood-deadheads. 
Sometimes you can stage a brief coup of a college 
station. lary Yurdin (wild man behin ea e Al rna 
‘New York City) for a few months because the school didn’t _ 
even know they had it. Strange interviews, and rock, and | 
weird talk finally gave the administration to know that it a 
was their voice being used for live (and lively) ae pao so 
they moved in and shut it down. Natch. 
Another direction for you to go is to set up a non- 
profit corporation and ask for a low power station on the 
educational 
portion of the FM band (88-92 me). 
But 
Christ: 
| don’t have time to write a book. 
If you want to 
do it, contact Poor People’s Radio in San Francisco, or 
Al Schwartz at KBOO (Portland), or Gary Margason at 
KRAB (Seattle), or Jeremy at KDNA (St. Louis), or Mitch. 
Green at KPFT (Houston), or me, or God. 
It is a funny way to go about getting your words 
; 
cast the magic seed to the winds of change--but it might 
work, and it might not take more than a few thousand dol- 
lars you can snitch from your old lady in the night. 
Speaking of good stations, there are more and more. 
| don’t mean those jobbies run by ABC or Metromedia pre- 
tending to talk to the world. 
| mean the mavericks. 
The 
Pacifica Stations are the earliest and in some ways (mainly 
professionalism) the best: 
KPFA (Berkeley), KPFK (Los 
Angeles), WBAI (New York), and KPFT (Houston--you re- 
member them: they keep blowing off the air; then blowing © 
right back on again; the last time they did it with about 
— 
$150,000 in contributions, which proves that TNT may be 
a friend in time of need). 
Then there’s the crab nebulae stations--KRAB (Seat- 
tle), KBOO(Portland), KTAO (Los Gatos), WYSO (Yellow 
Springs-Antioch-Ohio) and KDNA (St. Louis). The last one 
is interesting--they have the police put them in jail every 
now and again (preferring that to being bombed) because 
of their outrageousness, but seem to keep on going anyway. 
It is largely a cooperative-live-in effort, with the door open 
to anyone who cares to be heard on the alr. 
| know there are more: 
Only there is no journal with 
which these stations who are really trying to be alive can 
keep in touch. 
I’ve heard random stories filtering in from 
Phoenix and New Haven and just outside Boston--about 
stations who are not in the business of squeezing the bucks 
out of their listeners and the hope out of the employees. 
But they are rare. 
A MILLION OTHER THINGS 
There are a million other things | have to tell you | 
about broadcasting, and broadcast law, and the media rob- 
— 
ber barons, and the thieves in advertising and radio sales. | 
could 
tell you about the million dollars just paid to a 
‘religious’ group for an FM station in Los Angeles, or the 
sale of a daytimer in Truth or Consequences, New Mexico. 
| could 
tell you about the joy of running a broadcast 
station--just as you have wanted to run a broadcast station, 
or the silliness of working for ‘a station where all the em- 
ployees were thieves and alcoholics (1 worked for such a 
tea-kettle in Florida). 
| could tell you about tapes that you can get from 
Radio Moscow and Radio South Africa and New Zealand 
Radio and Radio Malta. 
| can tell you about being able to 
buy records from any and all record companies for $1 each. 
| can tell you about the gusher of 45s pouring in our door-- 
where we have to give them to the retardees across town. 
Or, | could tell you about the tragic gusher of people 
coming in our door--asking, begging, for a chance to be 
heard on radio; begging for a chance to broadcast, to com- 
qa 
EE 
el 
na 
ab ie 
