you they’re not in the hands of anyone where they might 
be captured. 
Or recaptured, shall we say. 
Fischer: 
\n other words, you've handed over the files 
to somebody else? 
Bob: 
\n a roundabout manner--who might be, shall 
we say, in the disposal unit of New Jersey. They've been 
destroyed, in other words. 
Fischer: 
The Hoover Vacuum Conspiracy--that’s ob- 
viously meant 
to be facetious, and one doesn’t usually 
think of these actions as being in any way humorous. Why 
did you choose that name? 
Robin: 
\Nell, we chose the name because, | think we 
did want to have a tone of humor to it. 
| think although 
our actions are very serious, they also have a tone of joy 
about them in the sense that we are trying to stand for life 
and joy and in light of the fact that Mr. Hoover had recent- 
ly made his statements regarding the East Coast Conspiracy 
to Save Lives, we felt that we would dedicate this action 
especially to Mr. Hoover. 
Fischer: 
Do you consider yourselves the East Coast 
Conspiracy to Save Lives, actually? 
Robin: 
Well, | think we’re all united in a very real 
way because we stand for the same principles, we’re striving 
for the same ideals, and in that sense | think we are all part 
of an East Coast Conspiracy, but as has been said before, 
conspiracy is broader than east coast. 
It’s a conspiracy that 
is west coast, southern, midwest, northern. 
Bob: Universal. 
Robin: Yeah, | think it’s universal right now. 
Fischer: 
How do you get together and decide to take 
an anti-draft action like this? How do you go about, you 
know, getting such a group together? 
How did you do 
that? 
Did you know each other beforehand or did you just 
kind of get together one night and start talking about it and 
then decide, ‘’Well, let’s do it!”’ 
Billy: Some of us. knew each other and others didn’t. 
| think it’s just a matter of what is happening all over the 
country, namely that like-minded people are getting togeth- 
er and trying to discover new and sometimes old ways of 
saying no to the death machine. 
| don’t think it’s a matter 
of some vast underground organization as the authorities 
seem to think, but just a group of friends doing something 
that seems positive and useful. 
Fischer: 
Actually, what do you consider the main 
motivation for what you did? 
Bob: 
person. 
For many of us it’s a new way, for many it’s an old 
way which they wish to continue--they see a great deal of 
personal meaning in it as well as a positive tone to it, unlike 
maybe a demonstration out on the street or writing a letter 
to a congressman or something that has been done and 
done and done, and really with very little results. 
Fischer: 
\n terms of philosophy, where do you lie? 
Are you in the non-violent activism of the Berrigans or the 
more active activism of the SDS Weather Bureau? Where 
do you stand on that continuum? 
Billy: 
Well, | don’t think we necessarily would need 
to be classified or see ourselves fitting into some kind of 
slot. 
In some way | do believe we see ourselves as part of 
| think the motivation varied from person to 
the non-violent tradition although | hesitate to use that. 
word because 
it’s much abused and has certain connota- 
tions with it. 
| think we feel that non-violent responses are 
really nothing very new. 
That's just kind of reproducing 
cern with it is that it does endanger human life, but i think 
; 
_ 
at any cost, certainly at this point, and | hope we would be 
world are trying to come up with new options: 
n 
surviving and helping other people to survive. aie 
is that the non-violent tradition all too often 
i passive ean, you know, it’s been the kin 
been roporicnete to some of the social ae but thi 
longer the case. 
| think it’s a way of inviting others to: 
point of realizing that laws need to be broken--laws tha 
Fischer: 
If you thought you could achieve your po- 
litical end by bombing something, would you do that? 
— 
Ny 
Robin: 
Well, that’s a hard question to answer. 
| 
sonally don’t see bombing as such as a violent act. My con: 
groups that have used this technique have taken every pre- 
caution in order to preserve life in order not to harm any — 
human being. 
So in that sense | don’t see it as a violent: 
action, because | don’t see the destruction of certain prop- 
erty as violent. 
At this point | don’t see bombing, at least 
for myself, as a way, because | feel that it’s very important 
to be able to talk to people and try to eliminate some of 
the fear that is existing and | think that bombing has terror 
ized many people. 
But | really can’t answer as far as--like 4 
| couldn't sit here and say no, | would never use that a 
method. 
Fischer: 
\s that the way the rest of you feel? 
Bob: 
Yeah, quite the same. 
Billy: 
Pretty much. As | said before, it isn’t a matter. d 
of having some clearly worked out ideology but rather re 
sponding to. the need of the moment, and presently the po- 
litical atmosphere is such that bombing gives off this feeling | 
| 
of terrorism and right now | think tends to have a counter- Ma 
productive effect, politically and humanly. 
“ 
Fischer: 
‘Let's take a concrete example of that. The 
University of Wisconsin, the bombing of the Mathematics — 
Research Building--one person was killed in that. How do 
a 
you feel about that? 
Billy: My personal feeling is that any kind of action 
that endangers a human life even minimally must be oie | 
able to maintain that kind of stance. 
The fact is that al- 
though | am delighted by the destruction of a university 
center that is primarily dedicated to war-military research, iy 
think what that says to so many people is that--let me put | 
itis 
this way--for one thing we know that there are all kinds of | q 
examples of terroristic bombings of this kind eventually be- 
ing used by the very powers against which: one is using | 
them. 
| mean we have a history of that in Algiers, in Viet | 
nam. and so on. 
So | think one’s action must not only be 
concerned exclusively with destroying’a certain target but oF 
also with communicating a certain stance and a certain — 
a 
vision. 
| 
Fischer: 
A moment ago | asked if you would bomb - a 
| 
something to achieve your political end. | guess | put the 
@ 
cart before the horse. What are your political ends? 
